1148 SUBGIGAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY flexure occupies the left iliac fossa, and from this point passes over the brim of the | pelvis. Except at its hepatic and splenic flexures, the colon can be examined through I the parietes, aided by an anesthetic. The caecum is the most superficial of all. ! Landmarks for lumbar colotomy.—(1) The lower border and tip of the last rib,| which varies in length ; (2) a point half an inch behind the centre of the ihac' crest, this point being found by accurate measurement along the crest between the! anterior and posterior spines (Allingham); (3) a line drawn vertically upwards I from the last-mentioned point to the last rib. This gives with sufficient correct-i ness the line of the outer edge of the quadratus, and the position of a norma]' colon. ' The kidneys.—These lie so deeply in the hypochondriac, lumbar, epigastric, and' umbilical regions as to be beyond palpation, unless enlarged. They lie much highei \ than is usually supposed, the upper part being well covered by the ribs. The right ] is slightly lower than the left. They lie deep in the loins, along the sides of the lasij thoracic and first three lumbar vertebrae. The upper edge corresponds with the spac(' between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, and the lower edge is nearly on a level witt Fig.693.—Transverse Section of the Abdomen through the Kidneys and Pancreas, at the level of the first Lumbar Vertebra. (Braune.) Inferior cava Round ligament Rectus EIGHTH Rl STOMACH TRANSVERSE COLON SEVENTH RIB ASCENDING COLOf SIGMOID FLEXURE DESCENDING COLON External obliq.tie PANCREAS ^\_^E1GHTH RIB Obliquus externus NINTH RIB PLEURA TENTH RIB KIDNEY Splenic vein Descending aorta )DY OF FIRST LUMBAR VERTEBRA LIVER Diaphragm ELEVENTH RIB TWELFTH RIB the middle of the third lumbar spine. They occupy a space which is represented o' the anterior surface of the body by the following surface markings. A horizonts, line through the umbilicus is below the lower edge of each kidney ; a vertical lir j carried upwards to the costal arch from the middle of Poupart's ligament has on(| third of the kidney to its outer side, and two-thirds to its inner side, i.e. betwee [ this line and the median line of the body. On the posterior surface of the bod | the kidney's boundaries are indicated by the following :—(1) A line parallel wit]: and one inch from, the spine, between the lower edge of the tip of the spinoi: process of the eleventh thoracic and the lower edge of the spinous process of the thii | lumbar vertebra; (2) and (3) lines drawn from the top and bottom of this In ^ outwards, at right angles to it, for two inches and three-quarters ; (4) a line parall | to the first, and connecting (2) and (3). Within this parallelogram the kidney lie, (IMorris.) ■ The spleen.—This lies very obliquely from above downwards, and from with \ outwards, in the left hypochondrium : thus its long axis corresponds closely wi1 j the line of the tenth rib. It is placed opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ri] i