THE ABTICULATIONS 222 the transverse process to the non-articular surface of the tubercle of the correspond- ^ ing rib. The eleventh and twelfth ribs have no posterior ligament. ! The superior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 215) is a strong, broad band of| fibres which ascends outwards from the crest on the upper border of the neck of I the rib, to the lower border of the transverse process above. .A few scattered' posterior fibres pass upwards and inwards from the neck to the transverse process. It is best seen from the front. Its inner border bounds the foramen through which the posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves pass. To the external border is attached the thin aponeurosis covering the external inter- \ costals. Its anterior surface is in relation with the intercostal "vessels and nerve;! the posterior with the longissimus dorsi. The first rib has no superior costo-! transverse ligament. The synovial membrane (fig. 216) is a single sac. ' The arterial and nerve supplies come from the posterior branches of the inter- i costal arteries and nerves. The movements which take place at these joints are limited to a gliding of the tubercle of the rib upon the transverse process. The exact position of the facet on' the transverse process varies slightly from above dowuAvards, being placed higher on the processes of the lower vertebra. The plane of movement in most of the costo-transverse joints is inclined upwards and backwards in inspiration, and downwards and forwards in expiration. The point round which these movements occur is the head of the rib, so that the tubercle of the rib glides upon the transverse process in the circumference of a circle, the centre of which is at the costo-central joint. 5. THE ARTICULATIONS AT THE FRONT OF THE THORAX These may be divided into four sets, viz. :— {a) The chondro-sternal articulations, or the junction of the costal cartilages with the sternum. (h) The costo-chondral joints, or the union of the ribs with their costal cartilages. (c) The intersternal joints, or the union of the several parts of the sternum with one another. [d] The interchondral joints, or the union of five costal cartilages (sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth) with one another. {a) The Chondeo-steenal Aeticulations Class.—Diarthrosis, Subdivision.—(rm^Z^/wms. | These articulations are between the lateral borders of the sternum and the ends of the costal cartilages. The union of the first rib with the sternum is synar thro dial, and therefore forms an exception to the others. From the second to the seventh inclusive, the articulations have the following ligaments,, which together form a complete capsule:— Anterior chondro-sternal. Superior chondro-sternal. Posterior chondro-sternal. Inferior chondro-sternal. The anterior chondro-sternal ligament (fig. 217) is a triangular band of strong fibres which cover the inner half-inch of the front of the costal cartilage, and radiate upwards and downwards upon the front of the sternum. Some of the fibres decussate across the middle line with fibres of the opposite ligament.