227 THE STEBNO-CLAVICULAB I THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The articulations of the upper extremity are the following :— 1. The sterno-clavicular. 2. The scapulo-clavicular union. 3. The shoulder joint. I 4. The elbow joint. 5. The radio-ulnar union. I 6. The radio-carpal or wrist joint. 7. The carpal joints. 8. The carpo-metacarpal joints, j 9. The intermetacarpal joints. 10. The metacarpo-phalang^eal joints. 11. The interphalangeal joints. 1. THE STEKNO-CLAVICULAE ARTICULATION Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. At this joint the large inner end of the clavicle is united to the superior angle if the manubrium sterni, the first costal cartilage also assisting to support the lavicle. It is the only joint between the upper extremity and the trunk, and takes )art in all the movements of the upper limb. Looking at the bones, one would ay that they were in no way adapted to articulate with one another, and yet they .ssist in constructing a joint of great security, strength, and importance. The )ones are nowhere in actual contact, being completely separated by an inter- zticular cartilage. The interval between the joints of the two sides varies from me inch to an inch and a half (2-5-4 cm.). The ligaments of this joint are :— (1) Capsular. (3) Interarticular fibro-cartilage. (2) Interclavicular. (4) Rhomboid or costo-clavicular. The capsular ligament (figs. 219-220) consists of fibres, having varying direc- :ions and being of various strength and thickness, which completely surround the articulation, and are firmly connected with the edges of the interarticular fibro- iartilage. The fibres at the back of the joint, sometimes styled the posterior terno-clavicular ligament, are stronger than those in front or below, and consist if two sets : a superficial, passing upwards and outwards from the manubrium iterni, to the projecting posterior edge of the inner end of the clavicle, a few being Drolonged onwards upon the posterior surface of the bone. A deeper set of ibres, especially thick and numerous below the clavicle, which connect the inter- ^brticular cartilage with the clavicle and with the sternum, but do not extend from )ne bone to the other. The fibres in front, the anterior sterno-clavicular ligament, bre well marked, but more lax and less tough than the posterior, and are overlaid )y the tendinous sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid, the fibres of which run ;)arallel to those of the ligament. They extend obliquely upwards and outwards irom the margin of the sternal facet to the anterior surface of the clavicle some ittle distance from the articular margin. The fibres which cover in the joint )elow are short, woolly, and consist more of fibro-areolar tissue than true fibrous tissue; they extend from the upper border of the first costal cartilage to the lower )order of the clavicle just external to the articular margin, and fill up the gap petween it and the rhomboid ligament. The superior portion consists of short i i