473 STEBNO-CLEIDO-MA STOID iiuscle. In front, it is attached to the lower border of the body and great cornu iif the hyoid bone. Below, it ends upon the front surface of the presternum and [he clavicle. The deep layer of the cervical fascia separates from it just below the Ljoid bone, and runs downwards in close proximity to the sterno-hyoid muscles and ihe other depressors of the hyoid bone, to the upper part of the posterior surface f the sternum, and the posterior surface of the clavicle. Laterally, it blends with !nd completes the sheath of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which is partly formed by tie superficial layer of the cervical fascia; it also binds down the posterior belly f the omo-hyoid to the clavicle and first rib. Below its attachment to the sternum jnd clavicle it is continued downwards in front of the trachea and great vessels t the root of the neck into the superior mediastinum, and it finally joins the ericardium. Behind, it gives an investment to the depressors of the hyoid bone, jletween this deep layer of the cervical fascia and the superficial layer is a small pace containing a part of the course of the anterior jugular vein, a lymphatic land, some fat and loose connective tissue. j A still deeper fibrous layer, the prevertebral fascia, stretches across the neck Ind divides the cylindrical tube formed by the cervical fascia into a posterior and nterior compartment. Its surfaces are directed forwards and backwards. Behind, ,, rests in the middle line upon the ligaments covering the front of the bodies of le cervical vertebrae. Laterally, it covers in the prevertebral muscles, and is ttached to the deep surface of the sujjerjicial layer of the cervical fascia between |ie sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. In the compartment formed between the deep layer of the cervical fascia as it ivests the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the prevertebral fascia, processes are iven off which form the sheath of the great vessels of the neck, and invest the iiyroid gland, the trachea, and pharynx. The muscles of the front of the neck may be divided into three groups: the rst group consisting of one muscle which ascends from the sternum and clavicle ) the head, the sterno-cleido-mastoideus ; the second, of those which ascend from le sternum, clavicle, and shoulder blade to the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage ; le third, of those which are attached to the hyoid bone below, and the skull and )wer jaw above. I First Group STEKNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID The sterno-cleido-mastoid, or sterno-mastoid muscle—named from its attach- !.ents (KAet?=:a key, being the equivalent of clavicle)—is a strong ribbon-shaped md, bifurcated below, and somewhat constricted in its middle third. Origin.—Sternal head: the front of the manubrium (or presternum) between le notches for the clavicle and first rib, and the middle line. Clavicular head: he upper part of the anterior surface of the inner third of the clavicle. Insertion.—(1) Along the anterior border and the upper part of the outer .rface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone ; (2) the outer half of the iperior nuchal line of the occipital bone. Structure.—The sternal head is a rounded but flat tendon ; the clavicular is ^rtly fleshy and partly tendinous. After a course of about an inch, the sternal .!)ad expands into a flat muscle, which conceals the greater part of the clavicular ; >rtion, and, passing upwards, outwards, and backwards, is spread over the whole sie of the upper attachment. Frequently it is so separate from the clavicular '^ad, that they might very fairly be considered to form two muscles. The clavi- ' lar head soon becomes entirely fleshy and ascends more directly. At first it is