772 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM its posterior surface uppermost in a cork-lined tray and dissected under water. On lajdng open the dura mater by a mesial longitudinal incision, the arachnoid will come into view and will be rendered more evident by blowing air between it and the pia mater with a blowpipe. On slitting up the arachnoid some of the coarser strands of the subarachnoid tissue may be made out. The posterior and anterior nerve-roots will also be seen with the ligamentum denticulatum between them. The connection of the latter with the pia mater is well seen under water. The pia mater appears white and glistening, and when traced downwards is very obviously continuous with the lilum terminale. The last-named structure stands out conspicuously among the duller-coloured nerve-roots which constitute the Cauda equina. On the anterior aspect of the cord the linea splendens will be seen. Lastly the student should make a series of transverse sections through the cord and compare the disposition of the grey and white matter in the different regions (fig. 439). The DURA MATER forms a loose sheath or theca around the cord. It invests not only the cord but also the elongated nerve-roots, which (under the name of cauda equina) extend beyond the cord. It invests the cauda equina as far as the second or third sacral vertebra, but at this level it converges so as to form a blunt hollow cone, and is represented lower down only by the sheath of the filum terminale. By means of this sheath it is attached to the base of the coccyx. Its outer surface is Fig. 48G.—View of the Membranes of the Spinal Cord. (Ellis.) rough and is loosely connected by fatty tissue to the ligaments and periosteum which line the neural canal. Some stronger retinacula connect it to the posterior common ligament. Its inner surface, smooth and shining, is separated from the arachnoid by a narrow subdural space. It is connected to the cord by a special development of the pia mater—the ligamentum denticulatum. It is continuous through the foramen magnum with the supporting layer of the dura mater of the brain. It sends tubular prolongations around the spinal nerves. These prolonga- tions gradually merge into the connective tissue sheaths (epineurium) of the nerves. Each tube is divided by a septum into two compartments, one for the anterior, and one for the posterior root of the spinal nerve. The differences between the dura mater of the brain and cord may be summarised as follows :—The dura mater of the cord does not send processes or infoldings into the fissures of the cord. It represents only the supporting layer of the dura mater of the brain. The periosteal layer is represented by the periosteum