930 - OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE i i joins with its fellow as well as with the pyramidalis, and it also blends with the subcutaneous tissue over the bridge of the nose. The depressor alse nasi arises from the incisor fossa; its fibres pass upwards to the septum and posterior part of the wing. ; The compressor narium minor consists of a few indistinct fibres, occasionally found between the alar cartilage and skin over the tip of the nose. ; These muscles are all supplied by the facial nerve. ' The skin covering the nose is for the most part thin and freely movable upon : the subjacent parts, but at the tip and over the cartilages it is much thicker and I more adherent and furnished with numerous sebaceous glands. I The mucous membrane becomes continuous with the skin at the nasal orifices, i and posteriorly with the membrane which lines the nasal fossae. Fig. 516.—Muscles of the Nose. (After Bonrgery.) Levator labii superioris alseque nasi Accessory slip of compressor. naris Dilator naris posterior Orbiciilaris oris- The vessels.—The arteries of the nose which arise from the facial are the | lateralis nasi and the artery to the septum derived from the coronary of the same ; trunk. This latter also supplies the ala. The nasal branch of the ophthalmic | and infraorbital are distributed to the sides and dorsum. j The veins terminate by joining the facial and ophthalmic. i The nerves.—The nerves are supplied by the facial, which is motory, and by the infratrochlear and nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, which are : sensory. ; The nasal fossae.—The nasal fossas have been already described (page 86). } Tho mucous membrane (jntuitary or Sclineiderian).—In the recent state the j area of the fossae is much contracted by its mucous lining. This is loosely folded ij around the lower edges of the turbinal bones, and extends beyond them in front [, and behind. Especially is this marked where it envelops the inferior turbinal j bone, and it is here very thick and spongy. It is, moreover, thick where it covers j