XTENSOR BBEVIS POLLICIS—EXTENSOR LONGUS POLLICIS 349 3. EXTENSOR BREVIS POLLICIS The extensor brevis pollicis—sometimes called the extensor primi internodii )llicis, from its action upon the first phalanx (internodius) of the thmnb—is flat id fusiform. Orig^in.—(1) The middle of the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane st below the preceding muscle ; (2) an elongated impression upon the inner irt of the posterior surface of the radius extending from the middle of that bone ir about three inches downwards and slightly outwards ; (3) an aponeurosis which 3parates it from the preceding muscle. Insertion.—The back of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Structure.—A penniform muscle arising by short tendinous fibres. These soon 5Come fleshy, and pass downwards and outwards to a tendon which begins in the iwer third of the forearm upon the radial border of its superficial aspect. Lying sneath the tendon of the preceding muscle and in close connection with it, this ndon passes over the tendons of the radial extensors, runs through the first )mpartment of the posterior annular ligament, crosses the first metacarpo- alangeal joint on the ulnar side of the tendon of the preceding muscle, and len expands into a broad aponeurosis which is inserted into the whole of the osterior surface of the base of the first phalanx. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the iventh cervical nerve) by a branch from the posterior interosseous division of the lusculo-spiral nerve, which enters the upper part of the muscle on the ulnar rder of its superficial aspect. Action.—It is a feeble muscle, the chief function of which is (1) to extend the etacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb ; at the same time it will assist the stensor ossis metacarpi pollicis in (2) abducting and extending the first metacarpal one; and afterwards it will assist in (3) the abduction of the wrist. Relations.—Superficially, the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor com- unis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, and posterior annular ligament; deeply, 16 radial extensors, the radial artery, the wrist and first metacarpo-phalangeal )ints. Variations.—The extensor brevis pollicis may be absent, or it may be blended with 16 preceding muscle. It may have insertions upon the metacarpal bones or the last ' alanx. An accessory slip has been observed from the external condylar ridge of the umerus. 4. EXTENSOR LONGUS POLLICIS The extensor longus pollicis, or extensor secundi internodii pollicis—named rom its action and length—is flat and fusiform. Origin.—(1) An elongated impression upon the outer part of the posterior surface f the ulna, extending from the middle of that bone for three or four inches down- wards and slightly outwards close to its external border. (2) The adjacent part of he back of the interosseous membrane, and a septum between it and the extensor adicis. Insertion.—The back of the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Structure.—This muscle, which is stronger than the preceding, has also a nniform arrangement. Its fibres pass downwards and outwards from their fleshy Irigin to be inserted into the tendon upon the back of the muscle, which, appearing Ibout two inches from its upper extremity near its radial border, gradually ||liickens as it passes obliquely downwards and outwards. Becoming free from nuscular fibres at the upper border of the posterior annular ligament, it enters the