214 THE ABTICULATIONS connected at the sacrum, and separates the greater from the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. Its front surface gives attachment to the coccygeus muscle, which overlies it. Behind, it is connected with, and hidden by, the great sacro-sciatic ligament, so that only the outer inch (2 cm.) and a small part of its attachment to the coccyx, can be seen ; the internal ptidic nerve also passes over the posterior surface. The arterial supply comes from the gluteal, ilio-lumbar, and lateral sacral. The nerve-supply is from the superior gluteal, sacral plexus, and external twigs of the posterior divisions of the first and second sacral nerves. The movements.—It is quite clear, from the nature of the osseous surfaces, from the wedge-shape of the sacrum, and the manner in which it is locked in between the hip bones, as well as from the amphiarthrodial character of the articulation that there can be no movement at the sacro-iliac joint. While the joint serves the useful purpose of breaking shocks, the cartilage is too thin and too firmly fixed to the bones to allow even of appreciable yielding, such as occurs upon the inter vertebral discs. The double wedge-shape of the sacrum, with its broader surface at the base and in front, prevents dislocation from forces acting from above downwards, and from before backwards. The sinuous character of the opposed surfaces of the sacrum and ilium, the forward and inward direction of the fibres of the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament which pass from ilium to sacrum, as well as the ilio-lumbar and sacro-lumbar ligaments, prevent forward displacement of the base of the sacrum ; while the sacro-sciatic ligaments prevent the tilting backwards of its apex. Thus rotation forwards is entirely prevented. The shape of the sacrum prevents its downward displacement, while the weight of the spine and the ligaments, which fasten the sacrum to the ilium, are sufficient to check its upward displacement. The anterior and downward displacements of the sacrum are prevented by the interosseous and posterior sacro-sciatic ligaments, which pass from the ilia to the sacrum, and suspend the latter, acting somew^hat in the same manner as the chains of a suspension bridge. They also bind the two bones more tightly together : th greater the pressure, the tighter the union. The suspension bridge arrangement o the sacro-iliac synchondrosis is admirably adapted to give strength to the pelvis. (b) The Sacko-coccygeal Articulation Class.—Amphiar thro sis. The last piece of the sacrum and first piece of the coccyx enter into this union and are bound together by the following ligaments :— Anterior sacro-coccygeal. Supracornual. Posterior sacro-coccygeal. Intertransverse. Intervertebral substance. The intervertebral substance is a small oval disc, three-quarters of an inc (about 2 cm.) wide, and a little less from before backwards, closely connected with the surrounding ligaments. It resembles the other discs in structure, but; is softer and more jelly-like, though the laminse of the fibrous portion are well marked. The anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament is a prolongation of the glistening fibrous structure on the front of the sacrum. It is really the lower extremity of the anterior common ligament, which is thicker over this joint than over the central, part of either of the bones.