824 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM Nerves Fifth cervical. Sixth Seventh ,, Eighth First thoracic. Second „ Third Fourth „ Fifth Sixth ,, Seventh „ Eighth „ Ninth „ Tenth Eleventh „ Twelfth „ First lumbar Second Third Four ill Fifth First sacral Fifth Coccygeal (A.) Just below lower border of spine of axis. (B) Just below lower border of spine of fourth cervical vertebra. (A) Lower border of spine of third cervical vertebra. (B) Lower border of spine of fifth cervical vertebra. (A) Just below upper border of spine of fourth cervical vertebra. (B) Just above lower border of spine of sixth cervical vertebra. (A) Upper border of spine of fifth cervical vertebra. (B) Upper border of spine of seventh cervical vertebra. (A) Midway between spines of fifth cervical and sixth cervical vertebra. (B) Junction of upper two-thirds and lower third of interval between seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebra. (A) Lower border of spine of sixth cervical vertebra. (B) Just above lower border of spine of first thoracic vertebra. (A) Just above middle of spine of seventh cervical vertebra. (B) Lower border of spine of second thoracic vertebra. (A) Just below upper border of spine of first thoracic vertebra. (B) Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of third thoracic vertebra. (A) Upper border of spine of second thoracic vertebra. (B) Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of fourth thoracic vertebra. (A) Lower border of spine of second thoracic vertebra. (B) Just below upper border of spine of fifth thoracic vertebra. (A) Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of fourth thoracic vertebra. (B) Just above lower border of spine of fifth thoracic vertebra. (A) Junction of upper two-thirds and lower third of interval between spines of fourth thoracic and fifth thoracic vertebra. (B) Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of sixth thoracic vertebra. (A) Midway between spines of fifth thoracic and sixth thoracic vertebra. (B) Upper border of spine of seventh thoracic vertebra. (A) Midway between spines of sixth thoracic and seventh thoracic vertebra. (B) Middle of spine of eighth thoracic vertebra. (A) Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of seventh thoracic vertebra. (B) Just above spine of ninth thoracic vertebra. (A) Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of eighth thoracic vertebra. (B) Just below spine of ninth thoracic vertebra. (A) Midway between spines of eighth thoracic and ninth thoracic vertebra. (B) Lower border of spine of tenth thoracic vertebra. (A) Middle of spine of ninth thoracic vertebra. (B) Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. (A) Middle of spine of tenth thoracic vertebra. {B) Just below spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. (A) Just below spine of tenth thoracic vertebra. (B) Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of twelfth thoracic vertebra. (A) Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. (B) Middle of spine of twelfth thoracic vertebra. (A) Just above lower border of spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. (B) Lower border of spine of first lumbar vertebra. (A) Lower border of spine of first lumbar vertebra. (B) Just below upper border of spine of second lumbar vertebra.