742 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM The outer capsule, much narrower than the inner, is a band of white fibres which intervenes between the claustrum and the nucleus lenticularis. In a horizontal section through the basal ganglia of the hemisphere and adjacent part of the thalamencephalon, an alternation of grey and white layers is seen in the following order from without inwards :—(1) the grey matter of the island of Eeil; (2) the white matter of the same lobe ; (3) the claustrum; (4) the outer capsule ; (5) the nucleus lenticu- laris ; (6) the inner capsule; (7) the nucleus caudatus and optic thalamus, separated from one another by the taenia semicircularis (fig. 419). The anterior commissure bounds the third ventricle in front, but belongs to the cerebral hemispheres, as it is developed in connection with the lamina terminalis. It presents a cylindrical free surface towards the third ventricle, where it appears like a small transverse bar in the interval between the anterior pillars of the fornix. It passes outwards in front of the fornix, and traverses the cerebral substance below the lenticular nucleus on each side (fig. 421), the fibres inclining backwards and assuming a twisted arrangement as it proceeds. It ends in the temporal lobe. Dissection.—The student should cut through the remaining part of the corpus callosum about the middle, raise the posterior portion, carefully detaching it from the subjacent fornix, and throw it backwards. This dissection will reveal the body and the diverging posterior pillars of the fornix. He should then raise the anterior portion of the corpus callosum, and snip through the septmn lucidum with a sharp pair of scissors. The slit-like fifth ventricle will now be visible, or may be brought into view by gently separating the laminae of the septum lucidum with the point of the scalpel. The fornix should next be examined and then divided by cutting through its body and throwing the parts backwards and forwards. By this dissection the so-called transverse fissure will be opened up and the velum interpositum exposed. The FORNIX is a longitudinally-arched bundle of fibres composed of two symmetrical halves which are united together at the central part, forming the body, but diverge in front and behind, constituting the anterior and posterior pillars. The body forms a curve parallel to the corpus callosum, to the under surface of which it is adherent. It is narrowest and thickest in front, widest and thinnest behind. It lies on the velum interpositum, which separates it from the third ventricle and from the optic thalami. The outer portions of its upper surface are placed in the body of the lateral ventricles, covered by the epithelium which passes at the thin outer margin of the fornix into the epithelial covering of the choroid plexuses. The posterior pillars diverge from the body, passing backwards and outwards. In the interval between them the splenium of the corpus callosum can be seen if viewed from below. This is marked by faint longitudinal, transverse, and oblique lines, and is described as the lyre. The posterior pillars expand as they pass outwards and enter the descending cornua of the lateral ventricles. A conspicuous bundle of fornix fibres passes along the concave border of the hippocampus major as the fimbria, which can be traced to the uncus. Other fibres are scattered over the hippocampus major and the eminentia collateralis. The anterior pillars sweep downwards with a sharper curve than the corpus callosum, and so diverge from it, leaving an interval which is occupied by the septum lucidum. They descend, in the form of two rounded slightly-diverging bundles, immediately behind the anterior commissure. Here they are joined by the taeniae semicireulares, and receive fibres from the peduncles of the pineal body and from the septum lucidum. In this situation they present a free surface, except in front, where they give attachment to the septum lucidum. Having reached the base of the brain, they end in the grey nuclei of the corpora albicantia. The anterior pillars of the fornix were formerly described as twisting on themselves to form bends or loops in the base of the brain, the corpora albicantia, the fibres after forming the bend being continued upwards on the inner sides of the descending anterior pillars as