STBUCTUBE OF THE MUSCLES 297 itachment, it is very necessary to bear in mind not only those to bone and .artilage, but also those to the fibrous structures or septa and aponeuroses which ie between or around the muscles. Such attachments are best seen when the area >f bone surface available for origin or insertion is small. By this means an ndefinite extension is given to this area, and a small bony process, such as the nner condyle of the humerus, is able to give a firm resistance to the traction of nany strong muscles. 4. The structure will include not only the direction and curvature of the fleshy ibres, and the extent of fibrous tissue by which these fibres arise or are inserted ; mt also the internal arrangement of tendons and muscular fibre, which is often )f a somewhat complicated character. The simplest structure of all is that of jnuscles with no tendons, in which the fleshy fibres run parallel from one end to I,he other. Many of the small muscles of the face are of this character. The iiterno-mastoid and sartorius are examples also of muscles in which the parallel leshy fibres form nearly the whole of the structure. It will be found that in these nuscles, on account of the number of joints passed over and the distance of the line )f the muscle from the axes of these joints, the range of movement is very great. |[n most parts of the body, however, there would be a great waste of fleshy fibre if ihis arrangement prevailed. Roughly speaking, we may say, that when fleshy ibres contract fully, their length is diminished by one half. Now, if the distance oetween the movable points of the skeleton which are joined by the muscles can- Qot be lessened by this amount, it is obvious that some of the contractile power )f the muscle would be wasted. When, therefore, the movable points of the skeleton bridged by a muscle can only be approximated through a limited space, it will be found that the parallel fleshy bundles are about twice the length of this 3pace, and that the rest of the muscle consists of inextensible tendon, which acts simply as a ligament to attach the contractile muscle to the bones. But this iaddition of tendon to the fleshy part of the muscle is effected in various ways. The jsimplest plan is that in which the addition is made at one end or the other of the muscle. The palmaris longus is to some extent an example of such an arrange- ment. By examining the bones it will be seen that the front of the carpus cannot be approximated to the internal condyle of the humerus by more than three finches. The fleshy bundles are, therefore, of about twdce this length, and they |are accumulated towards the upper end of the muscle, while the rest of its length is occupied by a long tendon. A more common arrangement is for the short fleshy fibres to arise in succession along the surface of a long bone or from an inter- imuscular septum, and to pass in parallel lines to the end and side of a long tendon, iwhich gradually thickens with the increase of the number of the fibres inserted into it. Such a muscle is like a feather, of which the quill with its diminishing upper extremity will represent the tendon, and the barbs upon one side of it tthe fleshy fibres. Hence this arrangement is called penniform, from penna, a jfeather (fig. 259). This form is found when considerable power is required, but with only a small range of movement. To appreciate fully the effect of such a muscle, we should in our imagination take all the short parallel fibres and place them side by side at the end of the tendon. The muscle would then be converted into a very thick and short fleshy mass with a very long tendon. Frequently a muscle arises in two lines from the adjacent surfaces of two bones, from which two sets of parallel fibres converge upon a tendon which runs I down in the interval between the bones. This arrangement resembles a feather with barbs on either side of the quill, and is called bipenniform. Examples of both i these forms are found in the leg. The peronei arising from the fibula alone are I penniform, while the tibialis posticus and soleus, arising from both tibia and fibula, \ are bipenniform. i In some cases a further complication is introduced by the origin of a muscle