664 THE VEINS Tributaries.—(1) The superior muscular veins; (2) the cihary veins; (3) the anterior and posterior ethmoidal veins ; (4) the lachrymal vein ; and (5) the central vein of the retina. (1) The superior muscular branches are derived from the levator palpebr^, superior rectus, superior oblique, and internal rectus. (2) The ciliary veins are divided into two sets : an anterior, which emerge from the eyeball with the anterior ciliary arteries, and open into the muscular veins returning the blood from the four recti; and a posterior set, which leave the globe midway between the cornea and entrance of the optic nerve. The latter veins are four or five in number, the upper ending in the superior, the lower in the inferior ophthalmic vein (page 890). (3) The anterior and posterior ethmoidal veins correspond in their course with the arteries of the same name. They enter the orbit through the anterior and Fig. K—The Veins of the Orbit. Supraorbital artery— LACHRYMAL GLAND— Superior rectus — eyeball- Co ???»;^'«c«'??2?«< of svperior ophthalmic vein T—rrinMimini— Reflected tendon of i'f| \ superior oblique [I '^V fll \v\ "^'i— Ophthalmic artery Anterior ethmoidal artery External rectus Lachrymal artt i y Superior rectus, cut — Inferior ophthalmic vein Superior ophthalmic vein OPTIC NEIl VE Common ophthalmic vein Posterior ethmoidal artery Ciliary arteries Levator palpebrae, cut Ligament of Zinn Ophthalmic artery OPTIC COMMISSURE Internal carotid artery posterior ethmoidal foramina, and join either the ophthalmic direct, or one or other of the superior muscular branches. (4) The lachrymal vein returns the blood from the lachrymal gland, and corre- sponds in its course to the lachrymal artery. (5) The central vein of the retina runs with the central artery in the optic nerve. It joins the superior ophthalmic at the back of the orbit. B. The inferior ophthalmic vein, smaller than the superior, is formed near the front of the orbit by the confluence of the inferior muscular with the lower posterior ciliary veins. It runs backwards below the optic nerve, along the floor of the orbit, and either joins the superior ophthalmic vein to form the common ophthalmic trunk, or else opens separately into the cavernous sinus. A large communicating branch passes downwards through the spheno-maxillary fissure to join the ptery- goid plexus of veins.