1219 THE BUTTOCKS nor is caused by, the lower margin of this muscle. It is really due to creasing of the skin in flexion and extension. But in early hip disease, in which flexion of the joint is almost unvaryingly present, both the fold and the gluteus maximus disappear with characteristic rapidity. The prominence of the buttock is mainly due to the gluteus maximus, especially behind and below, and in less degree to the other two glutei in front. Under the lower edge of the gluteus maximus the edge of the great sacro-sciatic ligament can be felt on deep pressure. Nerves and vessels.—The following superficial nerves can be marked in over the ibuttock (fig. 791). Behind the great trochanter, branches of the external cutaneous. Coming down over the crest, the lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal (about jin a line with the great trochanter), and behind this the lateral branch of the ilio- hypogastric. Two or three offsets of the posterior primary branches of the lumbar I nerves cross the hinder part of the iliac crest at the outer margin of the erector spinae. Two or three twigs from the posterior divisions of the sacral nerves pierce the Fig. 764.—Section through the Hip and Gluteal Eegion. (One-third.) Befleeted tendon^ rectus Psoas and iliaeus and bursa \ ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE---^^ Common femoral^ ^ artery Common femoral vein Prof unda vessels-^^^ Adductor brevis^^^ Semi-tendinosus Obturator externus—'- Adductor longus Adductor magnuf Gracilis Semi-membranosus Gluteus maximus -- Gluteus medius Gluteus minimus ^Pyriformis GREAT SCIATIC ^ NER VE and sciatic vessels -Obturator internus -Gemelli Biceps Quadratus femoris luteus maximus close to the coccyx and sacrum, and ramify outwards Finally over the lower border of the gluteus maximus turn upwards branches of the small iatic and inferior pudendal nerves. Great sciatic nerve (figs. 765, 766).-The point of emergence below the gluteus aximus and the track of this nerve will be given by a line drawn from one a ttle internal to the middle of the space between the great trochanter and the tuber •schii to the lower part of the back of the thigh. The inferior pudendal perforates he deep fascia about an inch in front of the tuber ischii, and turns forwards to supply the genitals. . . • - Gluteal artery .-If a line be drawn from the posterior superior spine to the apex of the great trochanter, the limb being shghtly flexed and rotated inwards, the point of emergence of the artery from the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch will correspond with the junction of the upper and middle third of this line (MacCormac). The gluteal nerve emerges immediately below the artery, and sends branches with the deeper portion. Sciatic and pudic arteries.-The limb being rotated inwards, a line is drawn ^ 4 I 2