168 THE SKELETON appears in the cartilaginous head of the tibia. The nucleus for the lower ex- tremity appears in the second year, and unites with the shaft at eighteen. The ' epiphysis for the head of the bone is one of the last to unite with its shaft; thisj ' e /ent usually occurs about the twenty-first year, but may be delayed until twenty- ] five. The tubercle of the tibia is usually ossified from the epiphysis ; occasionally ] it has an independent nucleus. fte ^ fie THE FIBULA in This is a long and slender bone, lying to the outer side of, and nearly parallel with the tibia; the middle of the shaft is somewhat posterior to that of the tibia. The upper extremity, or head, is of irregular form, and presents an oblique facet on its inner aspect for articulation with the outer tuberosity of the tibia ; the adjacent surfaces afford attachment to the superior tibio-fibular ligaments. The outer border ||e of the head is prolonged into the styloid process, and gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the knee ; the base of the process receives the biceps tendon. Near this point a portion of the iMroneus longus arises ; and posteriorly the head of the bone gives origin to the upper fibres of the soleus. The lower extremity, or external malleolus, is a thick, pyramidal process of bone. Its inner surface presents anteriorly a triangular facet for articulation with the fibular facet on the outer side of the body of the astragalus. Posterior to this facet is the malleolar fossa, for the reception of the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle when the foot is extended. This fasciculus of the ligament arises from the margin of the fossa. Above the facet, the bone; is rough for the inferior tibio-fibular ligaments. The outer surface is subcutaneous, The anterior surface gives attachment to the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The posterior surface has a shallow groove foi^ the passage of the tendons of the ]jeroneus longus and brevis. The tip of the malleolus gives attachment to the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. In the adult the fibular malleolus projects lower, and is! more prominent than the tibial malleolus. The shaft is very variable in contour, and it is extremely difficult to find two fibula alike. It has a well-marked anterior border, which, beginning in front of the head of the bone, divides in the lower third of the shaft, to enclose a triangular subcutaneous surface continuous with the outer surface of the malleolus. This border gives attachment to the anterior tibial fascia. The shaft on the outer side of this border is usually deeply concave for a part of its extent, and gives origin to the peroneus longus and brevis, and may be called the peroneal (or outer) surface Commencing at the head of the bone, in common with the anterior margin, and then gently diverging from it, is the ridge to which the interosseous ligament is attached. In the middle of the shaft the interosseous ridge is usually well marked, and separated by 5 mm. from the anterior border. From the very narrow surface limited by these ridges, the extensor longus digitoriim, peroneus tertius, and extensor longus hallucis arise. This is the extensor (or anterior) surface. The remainder of the shaft is the flexor (or posterior) surface, and possesses three sub divisions. One in the middle of its posterior aspect (in the midst of which is the orifice for the nutrient artery) gives origin to the flexor longus hallucis. This is limited above by the oblique line for the fibular origin of the soleus. Between these subdivisions and the interosseous ridge is the surface for the fibular origin of the tibialis posticus.