75 THE EAB BONES The short process projects backwards, and is connected by means of ligamentous fibres to the posterior wall of the tympanum, near the entrance to the mastoid antrum. The long^ process is slender, and directed downwards and inwards ; it lies parallel with the handle of the malleus. On the inner aspect of the distal extremity of this process is the orbicular tubercle, connected with the process by a narrow neck. Its free surface articulates with the head of the stapes. The orbicular tubercle is separate in early life. The stapes is the innermost ossicle. It has a head directed horizontally out- wards, capped at its outer extremity by a disc resembling the head of the radius. The cup-shaped depression receives the orbicular tubercle of the incus. The base occupies the the fenestra ovalis, and like this opening the inferior border is straight, and the superior curved. The base is connected with the head by means of two crura, and a narrow piece of bone called the neck. Of the two crura, the anterior is the shorter and straighter. The crura with the base form a stirrup- shaped arch, of which the inner margin presents a groove for the reception of the membrane which is stretched across the hollow of the stapes. In the early embryo this hollow is traversed by the stapedial artery. The neck is very short, and receives on its posterior border the tendon of the stajjedms muscle. THE EXTEEIOR OF THE SKULL The skull, lohen vieioedfrom above, presents an oval outline ; the posterior part is broader than the anterior. The bones seen in this view are the frontal, parietals, and the interparietal portion of the occipital. In a skull of average width the zygomata come into view, but in very broad skulls they are obscured. The sutures of the vertex are :— The metopic, which is, in most skulls, merely a median fissure in the frontal bone just above the glabella ; occasionally it involves the whole length of the bone. It is due to the persistence of the fissure normally separating the two halves of the bone in the infant. The sagittal is situated between the two parietals, and extends from the bregma to the lambda. The coronal lies between the frontal and parietals, and extends from pterion to pterion. The lambdoid is formed by the ]Darietals and interparietal portion of the occipital. It extends from asterion to asterion. The occipital suture is only present when the interparietal exists as a separate element (fig. 35). The more important regions are :— The bregma, which indicates the situation of the anterior fontanelle, and marks the confluence of the coronal, sagittal and, when present, the metopic sutures. The lambda, where the sagittal enters the lambdoid suture ; it marks the situation of the posterior fontanelle. The obelion, a little anterior to the lambda, is usually indicated by a median or two lateral foramina. It indicates the spot where the sagittal suture first suffers obliteration. Vieioed from behind, the skull appears irregularly globular ; the inferior part of its circumference being somewhat flattened. The limits of the flattened portion are indicated by the mastoid processes. The centre is occupied by the occipital protuberance ; this, with the occipital crest and the three pairs of nuchal lines, give to the lower half a rough and uneven appearance. The -sutures in this view are the terminations of the sagittal, lambdoidal and, when present, the occipital suture.