THE IB ACTION 3Q1 svith radius EE, and centre E. Now join R' to B, and draw another small arc jR' D with centre B and radius R' B. ED being the difference between B E, and I B E' will indicate the amount by which the length of the muscle has diminished I during its contraction, and E E' will represent the space through which the lower } end of the radius has moved. A comparison of the lengths of E D and E E' will show how great has been the gain in range of movement by the oblique insertion of B R. If the muscle had been inserted at right angles to E E, it would, in order to produce the same effect, have had to contract through a space equal in length to RE'. With its oblique insertion a contraction equal in length to ED has sufficed. The gain in range (and therefore in rapidity of movement, for by contracting through Ithe short distance it causes a simultaneous motion through the longer space) may jbe roughly represented by the fraction gg'. In muscles in which the insertion of [the tendon is at a very small angle, the loss of power is proportionately greater, and [the gain in speed and range enormous. As instances of this maybe mentioned the , 1 insertions of the tendons of the phalanges, which produce the comparatively feeble, but exceedingly nimble, movements of the fingers with a very small contraction of 1 the forearm muscles. In speaking of the direction of the muscles, it should clearly be understood that [ this refers to the angle of the attachment of the tendon to the lever which has to \ be moved, and not to the general direction, which is often changed by the passage Fig. 261. A E B C F D of the tendon or muscle over projections of bone or under arches of ligament before I it reaches its insertion. ! The advantage of an oblique insertion may also be illustrated by the action of muscular fibres, which cross one another like the two parts of the letter X in their passage between two parallel bones; e.g. in the internal and external intercostal I muscles connecting adjacent ribs, or in the external and internal oblique muscles of the abdomen in their passage from the crest of the ilium to the last rib. If the muscles connecting the parallel bones ran at right angles to them, they could only by their contraction diminish the intervening space by one-half; whereas, running obliquely, they produce by their contraction a much greater approximation of the bones. For let A B and C D represent two parallel bones, and E F a muscular fibre running perpendicularly from one to the other. If its full contraction reduced the length of the fibre by one-half, it would merely draw the point E to E'. But suppose that two muscular fibres C E and D E converge at right angles to one another upon i the point E. The amount that they will have to contract to draw E to E' may j be readily found by describing the arc of a circle E' K or E' L about C or D as a centre, and with CE' or DE' as a radius. E K and E L will represent the contraction required ; and it is evident that if these oblique fibres contract more strongly, they can bring the bone A B into close apposition to C D. When muscles pass over more than one joint, their action is somewhat more complicated. Usually other muscles are at the same time called into play, so