EXCEPTIONAL GEBVIGAL VEBTEBB^ 9 and lower articular surfaces on the inside of the ring two tubercles exist for the transverse ligament. This ligament divides the space within the ring into an anterior smaller segment for the odontoid process of the axis, and a larger portion —the spinal foramen of other vertebra—for the spinal cord and its membranes. The transverse processes are large, to serve for the attachment of muscles which help to rotate the head. The costo-transverse foramina are large, but the costal processes are slender. The Axis The Axis is easily recognised by the large rounded odontoid process which surmounts its upper surface. The centrum has a more prominent lip than the other cervical vertebrae, and the anterior surface has a median ridge separating two lateral depressions. The odontoid process is an irregularly rounded peg of bone. The anterior surface has an oval facet for the anterior arch of the atlas. Posteriorly it presents a deeply cut smooth groove for the transverse ligament. To the apex a thin narrow Fig. 9.—The Axis. JFERIOR ARTICULAR PROCESS FACET FOR ATLAS SUPERIOR ARTICULAR PROCESS COSTO-TRANSVERSE FORAMEN DY COSTAL PROCESS fibrous band (the suspensory ligament) is attached. On each side of the apex there is an oblique facet for the check ligaments which connect it with the occipital bone. The pedicles are stout and broad ; they support the oval, upwardly directed, articular surfaces for the atlas. The inferior articular surfaces do not differ from the cervical type. The transverse are smaller than the costal processes. The spinous process is stout and strong, deeply concave on its under aspect, and affords firm attachment for muscles, especially those which help to rotate the head. The Seventh Cekvical Veetebea This vertebra has a longer spinous process than any other cervical vertebra, hence it is sometimes called vertebra prominens. The extremity of this process is not bifid, but has two small lateral tubercles which give attachment to the liga- mentum nuch^e. The transverse processes are of large size ; the costal processes are very small; and the costo-transverse foramina are the smallest of the series. Very frequently the costal process is segmented off, and constitutes a cervical rib, sometimes of large size. Occasionally a demi-facet exists on each side of the lower border of the centrum for the head of the first rib. When this demi-facet is present, there is usually a well-developed cervical rib. The cervical vertebrfe also exhibit great variation in regard to the extremities