738 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM an obscure resemblance to the paw of an animal. It corresponds to the dentate fissure. The corpus fimbriatum, taenia hippocampi, or fimbria, is a narrow strip of white matter with a somewhat wavy appearance, which is placed along the concave side of the hippocampus major. It is formed by a portion of the fibres of the fornix continued into the descending cornu, and presents apparently a free edge towards the transverse fissure, but is in reality continued into the epithelium which covers the choroid plexus. When this epithelium is torn through and the choroid plexus pushed forwards, the fascia dentata is exposed ; the latter structure is placed in the floor of the dentate fissure, between the fimbria and the uncinate gyrus. The choroid plexuses are vascular fringes formed by an infolding of the pia mater in the region of the so-called great transverse fissure. They extend from Fig. 417.—A Dissection of the Descending Cornu of the Lateral Ventricle, WITH A Sagittal Section through the Basal Ganglia. the termination of the descending cornua to the foramina of Monro, through which they disappear. The epithelial lining of the ventricle passes from the thin (apparently free) edge of the fimbria over the choroid plexus to the tsenia semicircularis. This epithelium, which is the morphological wall of the cornu, excludes the choroid plexus (strictly speaking) from the ventricular cavity. The foramina of Monro are the apertures through which the lateral ventricles communicate with the third ventricle, forming at their communication a Y-shaped passage, the foramen commune anterius, by means of which the lateral ventricles of opposite sides communicate with one another. The choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles are continuous with one another through this passage. Each foramen of Monro is crescentic in outline, and is bounded in front and above by the anterior pillars of the fornix; below and behind by the anterior extremity of the optic thalamus ; and behind by the reflexions of epithelium from the fornix and optic thalamus on to the choroid plexus.