226 THE ABTICULATIONS and angles of the ribs rise nearly as mucti as the extremities themselves. In this movement the tubercles of the ribs glide upwards and backwards in inspiration, and downwards and forwards in expiration ; and the movement may be likened to that of a bucket handle, as in fig. 218, A, B. During inspiration, the cavity of the thorax is increased in every direction,! The antero-posterior diameter is increased by the thrusting forwards of the sternum, caused by the elevation of the costal cartilages and fore part of the ribs; whereby they are brought to nearly the same level as the heads of the ribs. The transverse diameter is increased : (i) Behind, by the elevation of the middle part oi the ribs ; for when at rest the mid-part of the rib is on a lower level than eithei the costo-vertebral or chondro-sternal articulations. Owing to this obliquity th( transverse diameter is increased when the rib is raised, and the increase k proportionate to the degree of obliquity, (ii) By the eversion of the lower bordei of the costal arch, which rolls outwards as the arch is raised, (iii) The transversa diameter is increased in front by the abduction of the anterior extremity of tht rib at the same time as it is elevated and thrust forwards. The increase in the vertical diameter of the thorax is due to the elevation o| the ribs, especially the upper ones, and the consequent widening of the intercostal spaces ; but the chief increase in this direction is due to the descent of tht; diaphragm. ■ The greatest increase both in the antero-posterior and transverse diameter^ takes place where the ribs are longest, most oblique, and most curved at theii angles, and where the bulkiest part of the lung is enclosed. This is on a level witl! the sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs. ; At the lower part of the thorax, where the ribs have no relation to the lungfi and do not affect respiration directly by their movements, it is important thaj the costal arches should be thrown well outwards in order to counteract th, compression of the abdominal viscera by the contraction of the diaphragm. | By widening the lower part of the thorax during inspiration, the origin of th' muscular fibres of the diaphragm is widened, and their power is increased. Fig. 218.—Diagram of Axis of Rib-Movement. (After Kirkes.)