446 THE MUSCLES Sixth Layer The sixth layer, or rather group, consists of four strata of oblique muscles belonging to the class of transverso-spinales ; the deepest layer being formed by a series of small muscles which run upwards and inwards from the back of one vertebra to that of the next above it; while the other layers run in the same direction but less obliquely, so as to cross over the backs of several vertebrae before reaching their insertion. 1. COMPLEXUS The complexus, or semispinalis capitis (fig. 306)—named from the complex or complicated arrangement of the muscular bundles which were formerly included under this designation, viz. the complexus, trachelo-mastoid, &c.—is a musculo- tendinous band somewhat constricted about its middle. Origin.—(1) The back of the articular processes of the cervical vertebrae from the third to the sixth ; (2) the back of the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and the six upper thoracic vertebrae ; (3) generally also by an inner head from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra. Insertion.—The under surface of the occipital bone between the middle and inferior nuchal lines from the middle line for nearly two inches outwards. Structure.—Arising by tendinous slips, the fleshy fibres pass upwards and slightly inwards, and are inserted either directly into the occiput or by a short aponeurosis which covers the thick part of the muscle near its outer border. On their way, the innermost fibres are intersected by a transverse tendinous band opposite the sixth cervical spine, and this part of the muscle, being thus divided, is often called the biventer cervicis. There is usually also a smaller tendinous intersection higher up across the posterior surface of the muscle. Nerve-supply.—From the suboccipital, great occipital, and the internal divisions of the posterior branches of the three or four following cervical nerves which enter the deep surface of the muscle. Action.—To extend the head, to flex it laterally, and to rotate the face slightly to the opposite side. Relations.—It is covered by the trapezius and the two splenii, and it lies upon the muscles of the suboccipital triangle and the semispinalis colli, the vertebral artery and the anastomosis between the arteria princeps cervicis and the arteria profunda cervicis. It is pierced by the great occipital nerve. Internally, it lies close to the ligamentum nuchae; and externally, to the trachelo-mastoid and transversalis colli. Variations.—The inner head may arise from several of the thoracic spines as well as that of the seventh cervical vertebra. Sometimes a second and smaller complexus runs, beneath the normal muscle from the upper thoracic vertebrae to the head. 2. SEMISPINALIS DOESI The semispinalis dorsi—named from the fact that the inner half only of the muscle, i.e. its insertion, is attached to the spines of the vertebrae, and from its situation in the dorsal region—is a rather feeble compound muscle, consisting of a series of small muscles with tendinous extremities. Origin.—The back of the transverse processes of the sixth to the tenth thoracic vertebrae. Insertion.—The spines of the last two cervical, and first four thoracic vertebras-