1116 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHIGAL ANATOMY • j Of the vessels of the scalp, the arteries are peculiar in their position. Thus they he superficial to the deep fascia, which is here represented by the aponeurosis (fig. 663). From this position arises the fact that a large flap of scalp may be separated without perishing, as it carries its own blood-vessels. From the density of the layer in which the vessels run they cannot retract and are difficult to seize, haemorrhage thus being free. Finally, from their position over closely adjacent ] bone, ill-applied pressure may easily lead to sloughing. ! The emissary veins.—These are communications between the sinuses within, i and the veins outside, the cranium. Most of them are temporary, corresponding to I the chief period of growth of the brain. Thus in early life, when the develop- I ment of brain has to be very rapid, owing to the approaching closure of its case, i a free escape of blood is most essential, especially in children, with their sudden i explosions of laughter and passionate crying. ' 1. Vein through the foramen caecum, between the anterior extremity of the | superior longitudinal sinus and the nasal mucous membrane. The value of this | temporary outlet is well seen in the timely profuse epistaxis of children. Other more permanent communications between the skull cavity and nasal mucous' membrane pass through the ethmoid and internal orbital foramina. The fact' that the nasal mucous membrane is loose and ill-supported on the turbinated bones allows its vessels to give way readily, and thus forms a salutary safeguard ' to the brain, warding off many an attack of apoplexy. 2. Vein through the mastoid foramen, between the lateral sinus and the posterior auricular and occipital veins. This is the largest, the most constant, ■ and the most superficial of the emissary veins. Hence the old rule of applying blisters or leeches over it in cerebral congestion. 3. Vein through the posterior superior angle of the parietal between the superior I longitudinal sinus and the veins of the scalp. 4. Vein through the posterior condyloid foramen between the lateral sinus and i the deep veins of the neck. 5. Vein through the anterior condyloid foramen between the occipital sinus and i the deep veins of the neck. | 6. Ophthalmic vein between the cavernous sinus and the angular vein. This j vein may be the source of fatal blood-poisoning, by conveying out of reach septic j material, in acute periostitis of the orbit, or in ostitis of dental origin of the jaws. 7. Minute veins through the foramen ovale between the cavernous sinus and : the pharyngeal and pterygoid veins. 8. Communications between the frontal diploic and supraorbital veins, between the anterior temporal diploic and deep temporal veins, and between the posterior; temporal and occipital diploic veins and the lateral sinus. The gravity of these emissary veins and their free communications with others is shown by the readiness with which they become the seat of septic thrombosis, and thus of blood-poisoning, in cranial injuries, erysipelas, suppuration of the scalp, i and necrosis of the skull. I Structure of cranium.—Two layers and intervening cancellous tissue. Each ! layer has special properties. The outer gives thickness, smoothness, and uniformity, I and, above all, elasticity. The inner is whiter, thinner, less regular—e.g. thej depressions for vessels. Pacchionian bodies, dura mater, and brain. Its chief) characteristics are its fragility (vitreous) and absolute inelasticity. The diploe,; formed by absorption after the skull has attained a certain thickness, reduces the [ weight of the skull without proportionately reducing its strength, and provides a j material which will prevent the transmission of vibrations. | Results of the above varying^ elasticity.—A blow on the head may fracture the ^ internal table only, the external one and diploe escaping. This is difficult to j diagnose, and thus it is impossible to judge of the severity of a fracture from