770 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM \ j The fissure coincided with the measurement, by both methods, in four cases. In three out of the remaining four cases an inch trephine would have exposed the fissure in both series of measurements, while in one case the fissure would have formed a tangent to the trephine circle by the above method, and would have missed the fissure by about two millimetres by Hare's method. I attribute this failure to the difficulty of determining the glabella with precision.—H. St. J. B.] Naso-lambdoidal line.—Poirier has introduced a line which he terms the naso- lambdoidal line. This line is drawn from the naso-frontal groove to a point one centimetre above the lambda. It touches the lower pointed extremity of the pars triangularis of the inferior frontal convolution, runs for a distance of from four to six centimetres along the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius, grazes | the inferior part of the supramarginal convolution, passes through the base of | the angular gyrus, and abuts on the external parieto-occipital fissure. About | the middle of its course, the naso-lambdoidal line passes through a point situated | six millimetres above the external auditory meatus. In cases where the lambda | Fig. 434.—Drawing of a Cast of the Head of a Newly-born Male Infant. ! (Prepared by Professor Cunningham to illustrate cranio-cerebral topography.) 1 INTRA- PARIETAL FISSURE EXTERNAL PARIETO- OCCIPITAL FISSURE cannot be defined by touch, it can be found at a distance of seven centimetres ! above the external occipital protuberance. (Poirier.) ' Fissure of Sylvius.—The following directions are given by Eeid for finding ' this sulcus :—' Draw a line from a point one inch and a quarter behind the external j angular process of the frontal bone to a point three-quarters of an inch below the most prominent part of the parietal eminence. Measuring from before backwards, ' the first three-quarters of an inch of the line will represent the main fissure, and i the rest of the line will indicate the horizontal limb. The ascending limb will start from the posterior end of the line indicating the main fissure—that is, two i inches behind, and slightly above, the external angular process—and run vertically j upwards for about an inch.' In making these measurements, the chief difficulty \ is the vague contour of the parietal eminence; it will therefore be advisable i to check the result obtained by drawing the naso-lambdoidal line. | j