562 THE ABTEBIES (1) The Supeeior Peofunda Aeteey The superior profunda is the largest of the branches of the brachial. It arises from the inner and hinder aspect of that artery, a little below the inferior border of the tendon of the teres major. It at first lies to the inner side of the brachial, but soon passes behind that vessel, and, sinking between the inner and long heads of the triceps with the musculo-spiral nerve, curves round the humerus in the musculo-spiral groove, lying in contact with the bone between the inner and outer heads of the triceps. On reaching the external supracondyloid ridge of the humerus, it perforates the external intermuscular septum, and, continuing forward | between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus to the front of the external ! condyle, ends by anastomosing with the radial recurrent artery. | It gives off the following branches :— (a) The ascending branch, which runs upwards in the substance of the triceps, or between the outer and inner heads of that muscle, to anastomose with the tricipital branch of the posterior circumflex artery. The importance of this anastomosis in carrying on the collateral circulation after ligature of the third part of the axillary artery below the circumflex, or the brachial above the profunda, has already been mentioned (page 558). (b) The cutaneous branch, Avhich runs with the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve to supply the skin of the outer side of the arm. (c) The articular branch, which is often larger than the continued trunk of the j superior profunda itself, is given off from the artery just before it perforates the I intermuscular septum, runs downwards in the substance of the triceps to the back j of the external condyle, where it anastomoses with the interosseous recurrent, and! Tli forms an arterial arch by anastomosing with the anastomotica magna across the backl m. of the lower end of the humerus immediately above the olecranon fossa. FromI fail this arch or rete small twigs enter and supply the elbow joint. iticiis {d) A nutrient artery is sometimes given to the upper end of the humerus. j sp (e) Muscular branches to the triceps. Chief variations.—The superior profunda may arise {a) from the axillary artery in common with one or more branches of that vessel; or (h) as a common trunk with the inferior profunda, (c) It may give off the posterior circumflex, which then runs upwards behind the teres major to reach the back of the shoulder. (2) The Infeeioe Peofunda Aeteey The inferior profunda arises from the inner side of the brachial, usually 'N about the level of the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, at times as a common trunk with the superior profunda. It passes with the ulnar nerve obliquely down- wards and inwards through the internal intermuscular septum, and then along tht inner head of the triceps to the back of the internal condyle where, under cover oi the deep fascia and the origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris from the olecranon and internal condyle, it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anasto- motica magna arteries. It frequently supplies the nutrient artery to the humerus It gives branches to the triceps, to the elbow joint, and a branch which passes irj %i front of the internal condyle to anastomose with the anterior ulnar recurrent. Chief variations.—(1) The inferior profunda may arise [a) with the superior profunda (6) from a trunk common to several other branches of the axillary and brachial arteries (2) It may be absent, its place being taken by the anastomotica magna. (3) The Anastomotica Magna Aeteey The anastomotica magna arises from the inner side of the brachial, about tw( inches above its bifurcation into the radial and ulnar arteries, and, running down 16 ilia ian itapp !(iclosi )lef Slleri m'i fteo