810 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM lower jaw. These branches proceed forwards over the face and front of the neck, and by frequently communicating with one another form a great expanded plexus which is called the pes anserinus. Taken in order from above downwards, the temporo-facial division gives off the following branches : temporal, malar, and infraorbital. The cervico-facial division divides into buccal, supramandibular and inframandibular branches. The TEMPORO-FACIAL DIVISION of the facial nerve runs obliquely upwards and forwards through the substance of the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery and the temporo-maxillary vein on the superficial aspect of those vessels, and terminates, as above described, in three branches. In this course it receives communications from the auriculo-temporal nerve, as mentioned in the description of the fifth nerve. {a) The temporal branch passes upwards through the parotid gland, and emerges at the upper border of the gland at a point a little in front of the temporal artery. It divides into several branches, which communicate with one another and with the malar branch. It also communicates with the temporal branch of the orbital, and with the supraorbital nerve. Its largest branches are distributed to the upper part of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and to the anterior belly of the occipito- frontalis. It also supplies the attrahens aurem, the corrugator supercilii, and, occasionally, the attollens aurem. The fibres which run in the facial nerve to end in the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles are probably derived from the oculo-motor nucleus of the same side, and pass downwards in the posterior longitudinal bundle to join the genu nervi facialis. (Mendel.) {b) The malar branch is a smaller nerve than the preceding. It is directed upwards and forwards to reach the most prominent part of the malar bone ; it supplies the lower part of the orbicularis palpebrarum. It also gives twigs to both eyelids; it communicates with the malar branch of the orbital, with the supra- orbital and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic, with the palpebral twigs derived from the superior maxillary division of the fifth, and with the temporal and infraorbital branches of the facial. (c) The infraorbital is the largest of the nerves which enter into the pes anserinus. It escapes from the parotid gland above Stenson's duct, and divides into several ; branches. These branches communicate freely with one another, and pass inwards on the deep surface of the zygomatici and the levator labii superioris. Under cover of the latter muscle they communicate with the terminal branches of the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, forming the infraorbital plexus; from thence twigs extend to the nose, and communicate with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. The infraorbital branch also forms communications with other branches of the facial, namely with the malar above and with the buccal below. It supplies the zygomatici, the levator labii superioris, the levator labii superioris alasque nasi, the levator anguli oris, the pyramidalis nasi, the compressor nasi, and the depressor alee nasi. It also gives twigs to the buccinator and to the orbicularis oris. The CERVICO-FACIAL DIVISION of the facial nerve is directed forwards and down- wards, through the parotid gland, and, like the temporo-facial division, it crosses on the outer side of the external carotid artery. As it traverses the glandular sub- stance, it communicates with the facial branches of the great auricular nerve. As above described, it terminates in three branches : the buccal, the supramandibular, and the inframandibular. (a) The buccal branch is of small size, and is the highest of the three branches of the cervico-facial division. It is placed between the infraorbital and supra- mandibular branches of the facial, and communicates with both these branches. It emerges from the parotid gland below Stenson's duct, and crosses the masseter muscle. In front of the anterior border of the masseter, it communicates with the