THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 722 thickness of the ventricular wall, so that the reverse of each complete fissure appears as a bulging into the cavity of the ventricles. The complete fissures comprise the dentate fissure, the collateral fissure, the calcarine fissure, and parieto- occipital fissure. The fissure of Sylvius is sometimes described as a complete fissure, ' but the projection into the hemisphere cavity which corresponds with it (viz. the corpus striatum) is not formed by an infolding of the mantle wall, but as an elevation on the floor of the prosencephalon. The surface area corresponding to this internal projection does not keep pace with the mantle, as the latter grows around it, and in consequence the Sylvian depression makes its appearance.' (Cunningham.) Interlobar fissures.—Certain fissures are termed interlobar because they have been selected to determine the boundaries of the various lobes into which the hemispheres have been (somewhat artificially) divided. These are the parieto- occipital fissure and the fissures of Sylvius and of Eolando. The parieto-oecipital fissure appears as a well-marked vertical sulcus on the posterior part of the inner face of the hemisphere, and is continued outwards for a short distance on to the convex surface. The portion on the mesial surface is distinguished as the internal parieto-oecipital or internal perpendicular fissure. It will be more particularly described with the fissures and convolutions of the inner surface of the hemisphere. The portion which appears on the convex surface is distinguished as the external parieto-oecipital fissure. The fissure of Sylvius is situated partly on the base and partly on the external surface of the hemisphere, and is, with the exception of the great longitudinal fissure, the most conspicuous sulcus in the brain. It commences at the outer angle of a depression called the vallecula Sylvii, in which the anterior perforated space is situated. It passes outwards and upwards with an inclination backwards, and divides into three branches or limbs, a posterior, an ascending, and an anterior. The posterior limb is by far the largest, and is to be regarded as the continuation of the main fissure; it passes backwards and slightly upwards, separating the temporal from the frontal and parietal lobes, and finally, taking a more upward direction, ends in the parietal lobe. The ascending limb is short and passes vertically upwards ; the inferior frontal convolution arches around it. The anterior limb is about the same length as the ascending ; it passes directly forwards into the substance of the inferior frontal convolution. , Between the posterior and ascending limbs of the fissure of Sylvius, a wedge-sllaped mass of convolutions is included which is known as the operculum ; it belongs partly to the frontal and partly to the parietal lobes. Beneath the operculum the two limbs of the fissure of Sylvius are united by a fissure which takes a curved course concentric with the cerebral surface; this fissure or space corresponds to the floor of the originally open fossa Sylvii, which has been covered by the downward growth of the operculum. When it is opened up by raising the operculum, the island of Keil is displayed. The fissure of Rolando, or central sulcus, serves as a line of demarcation between the frontal and parietal lobes. It is, next to the fissure of Sylvius, the most important of the incomplete fissures of the brain. It extends from the great longitudinal fissure to the Sylvian fissure, and may communicate with the latter (19 per cent., Cunningham), but the communication is always shallow. At its upper end it usually (60 per cent., Cunningham) passes into the great longitudinal fissure and appears on the mesial surface of the hemisphere, where it ends by bending backwards for about a quarter of an inch. The fissure of Rolando is directed downwards and forwards so that the fissures of the two sides taken together form an angle of about 143°, open in front. The fissure does not pursue a perfectly straight course, but is somewhat sinuous, and two of its bends, more conspicuous and constant than the others, have been described as the superior and inferior genua. These genua mark off the fissure into three approximately equal parts.