THE SKELETON 162 perforating ; it enters near the middle of the hnea aspera, and is directed towards the head of the bone. The condyles are nourished by articular branches froni the popliteal and the anastomotic of the femoral. Ossification.—The shaft of the femur begins to ossify in the seventh week oi intra-uterine life. Early in the ninth month a nucleus appears for the condyles. During the first year the nucleus for the head of the bone is visible, and one for the greater trochanter in the fourth year. The centre for the lesser trochanter is visible about the thirteenth or fourteenth year. The lesser trochanter joins the shaft at the eighteenth, the greater trochanter at the nineteenth, the head about the twentieth, and the condyles at the twenty-first year. The neck of the femur is an apoijliysis, or outgrowth from the shaft. The line of fusion of the condyloid epiphysis lies below the adductor tubercle, so that the tubercle with the spaces from which the gastrocnemius and plantaris arise, belong to the shaft, and not to the epiphysis. The morphological relation of the patellar facet to the articular portions of the condyles is worth notice. In a few^ mammals, such as the ox, this facet remains separated from the condyles by a furrow of rough bone. In the human femur it is faintly marked off by a shallow groove in the cartilage, best seen in a recently opened knee-joint. Some anatomists attribute these grooves in the cartilage to the pressure of the semilunar fibro-cartilages. The angle which the neck of the femur forms with the shaft measures at birth, on an average, 160°. In the adult it varies from 110° to 140° ; hence the angle decreases greatly during the period of growth. When once growth is completed, the angle, as a rule, remains fixed. (Humphry.) The patella is a sesamoid bone, somewhat triangular in shape, situated in] front of the knee-joint. Its anterior surface is slightly convex, and pitted with THE PATELLA Fig. 164.—The Left Patella. Anterior surface Posterior surface EXTERNAL ARTICULAR FACET small openings, which transmit nutrient vessels to the interior of the bone. This surface is subcutaneous ; a bursa intervenes between it and the skin. The posterior surface is concave, and in great part cartilage-covered, forming a compound