SUBGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY 1188 median nerve also crosses the artery, and the uhiar nerve leaves the inner side, of the vessel to pass to the inner aspect of the limb. The brachialis anticus can be mapped out by two pointed processes whict surromid the insertion of the deltoid, and which pass downwards into line.« corresponding to the two intermuscular septa, and then converge over the front o: the elbow to their insertion into the coronoid process. The median nerve can be traced by a line drawn from the outer side of th( third part of the axillary and first part of the brachial artery, across this lattei vessel about its centre, and then along its inner border to the forearm, where i passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres. The ulnar nerve lies to the inner side of the above arteries as far as the middle of the arm, where it leaves the brachial to course more inwards and perforate th( internal intermuscular septum and get to the back of the internal condyle. The musculo-spiral nerve can be traced by a line beginning behind the thirc part of the axillary artery, then carried vertically down behind the uppermost par of the brachial, and then, just below the posterior border of the axilla, curving backwards behind the humerus and slightly doAvnwards, just below the insertion o the deltoid. Thus, passing from within outwards and from before backwards in it groove with the superior profunda vessels, it again comes to the front by perforating the external intermuscular septum at a point about opposite to the junction of th^ middle and lower thirds of the arm, and passes down in front of the external supra condyloid ridge, lying here between the brachio-radialis and brachialis anticus, ti the level of the external condyle, where it divides into radial and posterior inter osseous. The former of these accompanies the radial artery to the front of th' arm, the latter travels backwards to the back of the forearm. On the back of the arm is the triceps muscle, with its three heads and tendon c insertion, all brought into relief in a muscular subject when the forearm is strongl extended. Of the three' heads the inner is the least distinct, arising below th musculo-spiral groove, reaching to each intermuscular septum, and tapering awa above as high as the teres major. The outer head, arising above the groove as hig as the great tuberosity, appears in strong relief just below the deltoid ; while th middle or long head, arising from the scapula just below the glenoid cavity, appeaij between the teres muscles. The tendon of insertion, passing into the upper and bacj part of the olecranon over a deep bursa, is shown by a somewhat depressed area. Fig. 731.—Vertical Section of the Elbow. (One-half.) (Braune.) Tendon of biceps BraeMo-radialis RADIAL NERVE- Braeliialis anticus- Extensor carpi radialis longior —Pronator teres "MEDIAN NERVE --Flexor carpi radialis —Internal lateral ligament — ULNAR NERVE -OLECRANON -Tendon of triceps THE ELBOW The bony points, condyles, olecranon, and head of radius, and their relation t] each other, should be carefully studied. The internal condyle is the more promineri of the two, is directed backwards as well as inwards, and lies a little above i\\ fellow. Above it can be traced upwards the supracondyloid ridge and correspondii