771 THE SPINAL COED External parieto-occipital fissure.—This fissure is situated, according to Hare, on an average, five-eigliths of an inch in front of the lambda, or one inch and seven-eighths behind the upper end of the fissure of Eolando. It may also be found at the posterior end of the naso-lambdoidal line. [In Professor Cunningham's series of casts, the relation of the lambda to the external parieto-occipital fissm-e is seen to vary considerably. The fissure is generally in front of the lambda, but is in one case under cover of that landmark. I recently measured the distance of the parieto-occipital fissure from the upper end of the fissure of Eolando in five of these casts, and found it slightly in excess of the measurement given above—viz. 2'3 inches—the limit of variability being half an inch.—H. St. ,T. B.] Angular gyrus.—This convolution is situated on the naso-lambdoidal line, seven centimetres from the lambda. (Poirier.) Supramarginal convolution.—This is placed immediately above the naso- lambdoidal line at a distance of ten centimetres from the lambda. (Poirier.) THE SPINAL CORD The spinal cord is the elongated portion of the cerebro-spinal axis which is contained within the spinal canal. It extends from the level of the transverse Fig. 435.—Transverse Section of the Spinal Cord and its Membranes. (After Key and Eetzius.) Dura mater — ligament of the atlas to the body of the second lumbar vertebra. Occasionally it only extends as far as the body of the first lumbar vertebra. It is invested, in common with the brain, by three membranes : dura mater, arachnoid, and pia mater. The portions of these membranes which are contained within the cranial cavity, and I are therefore in relation to the brain, have been already described (page 710). There I are, however, certain differences between the cranial and the spinal meninges ; there- I fore, a short separate description of the latter will be necessary. ij Dissection.—The subject being placed on its face, the neural canal ma^^ be laid open in , the usual manner by cutting through the pedicles of the vertebras and removing the neural arches of the sacrum. The cord and its membranes should be first examined in situ. \ About three inches of the theca should be ripped up at the junction of the dorsal and I hmibar regions for this purpose. The entire cord with the membranes should then be removed by dividing both cord and membranes at the level of the articulation between I the atlas and axis and cutting through the nerves as they enter the intervertebral foramina. Two or three of the lower lumbar or upper sacral nerves should be cut sufticiently long to preserve the ganglia on the posterior roots. The cord should now be pinned out with 3 D 2