THE ARTEBIES 616 practical point to remember is that it is more usual to meet with a short than with a long common femoral, and that, if the superficial femoral is tied at the apex of Scarpa's triangle—i.e. the spot where the inner edge of the sartorius comes into contact with the adductor longus—there is nearly always a sufficient length of that vessel above the ligature to ensure a firm internal clot, and consequently, as far as this point is concerned, a successful result. (3) The relations of the superficial femoral artery in Hunter's canal.—Hunter's canal is the somewhat triangularly shaped space bounded by the vastus internus on the outer side, the adductors longus and magnus on the inner side, and by an apo- neurosis thrown across from the adductors to the vastus in front. Below, the canal terminates at the opening in the adductor magnus; above, its limit is less well defined, as here the aponeurosis between the muscles becomes less tendinous, and gradually fades away into the perimuscular fascia. The transverse direction of the fibres of the aponeurotic covering at the lower two-thirds of the canal is character- istic, and serves as a rallying point in tying the artery in this part of its course. Lying superficial to the aponeurosis is the sartorius muscle. The superficial femoral artery as it lies in this canal has the following relations :— In front, in addition to the skin, superficial and deep fascia, are the sartorius muscle and the aponeurotic fibres of the canal. The internal saphenous nerve crosses the artery from without inwards, lying in the wall of the canal. Behind is the angle of meeting of the vastus internus and the adductors. The femoral vein lies behind the artery, but gets a little external to it at the lower part of the canal. It is here very firmly and closely attached to the artery, embracing it as it were on its posterior and external aspect. Hence it is very liable to be punctured on ligaturing the artery in this part of its course. Such an accident is best avoided by opening the sheath of the vessels well to the inner side of the front of the artery, and by keeping the point of the aneurysm needle closely applied to the vessel in passing it from without inwards between the vein and the artery. There are sometimes two veins, which then more or less surround the artery. 9T0 its inner side is the adductor longus above and the adductor magnus below. To its outer side is the vastus internus, and at the lower part of the canal the femoral vein. Variations in the Femoral Artery The most important variations in the femoral artery are :—(A) The femoral arising from the sciatic or internal iliac, and passing out of the pelvis and down the back of the thigh with the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space; the external iliac under these circumstances ending in the profunda or external circumflex, or some other branch of the femoral. (B) A double condition of the femoral artery below the origin of the profunda; the vessel re-uniting lower down the thigh. (C) A vas aberrans given off from the inner side of the common femoral or external iliac, and joining the femoral lower down. (D) The vein may remain to the inner side of the artery its whole distance through the thigh, or it may be double, especially in Hunter's canal. There is often a plexiform arrangement of the vein around the artery in this situation. (E) The variations in the origin of the profunda have been already mentioned. Branches of the Femoral Artery The femoral artery gives off the following branches :— A. From the common femoral:—(1) The superficial epigastric ; (2) the superficial circumflex iliac; (3) the superficial external pudic; (4) the deep external pudic; and (5) the profunda. B. From the superficial femoral in Scarpa's triangle :—(1) Muscular branches ; and (2) the saphenous branch. C. From the superficial femoral in Hunter's canal:—(1) Muscular branches ; and (2) the anastomotica magna.