ILIO-GOSTALIS—GEBVIGALIS ASGENDENS 441 Action.—Generally, that of extension of the lumbar spine on the pelvis ; but a full account will be given with the description of the succeeding muscles. Relations.—Superficially, the vertebral aponeurosis, with which it is blended at its origin and for the first two inches of its course. With this aponeurosis it therefore enters into a close relation with the lower part of the tendons of the iatissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior. Deeply, the multifidus spinae, 3ome of the fibres of which arise from it. The outer division extends upwards along the angles of the ribs and the trans- /erse processes of the lower cervical vertebras, and consists of the ilio-costalis, iccessorius ad ilio-costalem, and the cervicalis ascendens. It is separated from ihe middle division by the external branches of the posterior divisions of the spinal lierves. Outer Division 2. ILIO-COSTALIS The ilio-costalis, or sacro-lumbalis—named from its attachment to the ilium jud ribs—is an elongated muscular sheet, with a serrated outer border formed by [he insertion of its tendons into the lower ribs, i Origin.—The outer portion of the erector spinae. Insertion.—(1) The angles of all the ribs from the sixth to the eleventh ; 2) the lower border of the last rib ; (3) the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and the fibrous processes which extend outwards from the tips of jhe transverse processes of the upper lumbar vertebrae into the lumbar fascia. 3. ACCESSORIUS AD ILIO-COSTALEM The accessorius ad ilio-costalem or ad sacro-lumbalem—named from its being ,n accessory or addition to the ilio-costalis—is a narrow musculo-tendinous band 7ith a serrated margin on either side. Origin.—The upper border of the angles of the seventh to the eleventh ribs and he back of the last rib. [ Insertion.—The back of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, he first rib just external to its tubercle, and the angles of the second to the fifth ibs. 4. CERVICALIS ASCENDENS [ The cervicalis ascendens—named from its position in the neck and its irection—is a still thinner musculo-tendinous band with serrated margins, i Origin.—The back of the four or five upper ribs just internal to the insertion if the preceding muscle. ( Insertion.—The back of the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth jervical vertebrae. ; Structure.—'These three sections form a compound muscle, composed for the jiost part of fusiform bellies with tendinous origins and insertions, placed in series so |iat the origins of the higher slips are on a level with the insertions of those that jrise six or seven vertebrae or ribs lower down. The lowest of the series arise lirectly from the muscular mass of the erector spinae ; and the insertions of these j)wer shps, especially those into the lumbar fascia and last rib, are fleshy. A part jf the tendinous origin of the slips of muscle is so closely blended that a complete