751 COBPOBA QUADBIGEMINA bodies, situated above and external to the nucleus of the third nerve; it is limited on its outer side by the white fibres of the nerve-root itself. The formatio reticularis will be described with the anatomy of the medulla and pons. The CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA are four greyish elevations which surmount the lamina quadrigemina. The superior or anterior pair are termed the nates; the inferior or posterior pair, the testes. The corpora quadrigemina are marked off by Fig. 425.—Lateral View of Mesencephalon, Pons, and Medulla. (Gegenbam\) CORPUS GENICULATUM EXTERNUM CRUST A OLIVARY BODY PULVINAR OF OPTIC THALAMUS PINEAL BODY ..^ -^V~ (CORPUS GENICULATUM ^N^:^^ INTERNUM CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA FILLET MIDDLE CEREBELLAR PEDUNCLE INFERIOR CEREBELLAR PEDUNCLE a cruciform groove, the transverse limb of which is the more distinct. The portion of the vertical groove which lies between the nates is also w^ell marked, but the groove between the testes is shallow and is obscured by a rounded bundle of fibres, the frenulum veli, which passes dowai^vards and spreads out on the valve of Vieussens, immediately below the testes. The corpora quadrigemina consist of grey matter overlaid by a thin superficial stratum of white fibres. The nates are broader and darker in colour than the testes, and form a pair of ovoid elevations with their long axes directed upwards and outw^ards ; this direction is continued into the corresponding brachia. The brachia of the nates, or superior brachia, are slightly-raised white bands which pass on each side from the nates in the intervals between the pulvinar of the optic thalami and the corpora geniculata interna. They are sharply marked off from the latter, but less distinctly from the thalami. Each brachium is continued below the corpus geniculatum externum of its omi side directly into the optic tract. The testes are lighter in colour, and form more pronounced elevations than the nates. Each testis is a somewhat pear-shaped body, the narrow end of which is continued into the brachium of its own side. The brachia of the testes, or inferior brachia, are narrower and more prominent than the brachia of the nates, and run parallel to the latter. Each brachium passes below the corpus geniculatum internum of its own side and disappears from the surface. The corpus geniculatum internum is an oval elevation Avhich is placed behind the lateral groove of the mesencephalon under cover of the pulvinar. Its long axis is directed transversely. A band of ^vhite fibres is prolonged from its outer end into the optic tract. This passes as the hindermost layer of fibres in the optic