1155 ANUS—BECTUM leath of obturator fascia, on the outer wall, about an inch and a half above the )wer margin of the tuber ischii, must be remembered. Anus.—The tightly closed condition of this orifice in health and the puckering : the skin around, due to the sphincter and corrugator cutis ani, are characteristic, lilated veins, or tags of skin resulting from the shrinking of these, are also common. I white line, varying in distinctness in different subjects, marks the junction of the jdn and mucous membrane, and the interval between the external and internal )hincters. Amongst the numerous folds about the anal orifice, a fissure or ulcer (ay lie hidden, especially on the coccygeal aspect; the abundant nerve-supply to (lis region and the large distribution of the pudic nerve to the genitals, and the Unction of this nerve with other branches of the sacral plexus, explain the acuteness ' the suffering, and its wide distribution in these affections. (Hilton.) Rectum.—The following points can be made out by the finger introduced here : ) The thickened, roll-hke feel of a contracted external sphincter; (2) the narrower. Fig. 702.—Diagram of the Pelvic Fascia. Transversalis fascia Iliac fascia Obturator ' Wliite line Reeto-vesieal fascia Obturator fascia IseMo-reetal fascia— Alcoek's canal witli pudic vessels —Abdominal muscles LIAC CREST Psoas BORDER OF ACETABULUM Apex of ischio-reetal fossa Levator ani ISCHIAL TUBEROSITY Sphincter ani t , li 1 l\ I 3re expanded, internal sphincter extending upwards from this ; (3) the condition the ischio-rectal fossge on either side ; (4) the membranous urethra in front, oecially if a staff has been introduced ; (5) just beyond the sphincters, or an 3h and a half within the anus, lies the prostate. The posterior surface of the md lies in close contact with the bowel, its anterior or pubic surface being a If to three-quarters of an inch below the pubes, and connected to it by 3 pubo-prostatic ligament. The apex looks towards the triangular ligament, die the base is turned backwards towards that triangular area on the under :face of the bladder which corresponds to the trigone on the inner surface of the ■cus; (6) converging towards the base of the prostate, and forming the sides of 3 triangular space, are the vesiculffi seminales and ejaculatory ducts. These can 'ely be felt unless diseased and enlarged. It is within this triangular space that istended bladder can be punctured, the trocar being driven in the direction of the ig axis of the distended viscus, i.e. towards the umbilicus. As a rule, the recto- ical pouch is reflected at a distance of three and a half or even four inches from 4 E 2