MOBPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL 101 The lingulae stand out from the basi-sphenoid as two lateral buttresses, and the floor of the sella turcica presents the cranio-pharyngeal canal, which in a recent bone is occupied by fibrous tissue. The dorsum ephippii is yet cartilaginous. The ali-sphenoids with the pterygoid processes are separated from the rest of the bone by cartilage. The foramen rotundum is complete, but the future foramen ovale is merely a deep notch in its posterior border, and there is no foramen spinosum. The pterygoid processes are short, and each internal pterygoid plate presents a broad surface for articulation with the lingulae. The Vidian canal is a groove between the internal pterygoid plate, the lingula, and greater wing. Fig. 106.—The Temporal Bone at Birth. The temporal bone at birth consists of three parts (excluding the ear-bones): the petrosal, squamosal, and tympanic. The petrosal presents a large and conspicuous floccular fossa ; the hiatus Fallopii is a shallow bay lodging the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. There is a relatively large mastoid antrum, but no mastoid process. The styloid process is unossified, but the tympano-hyal may be detected as a minute rounded nodule of bone near the stylo-mastoid foramen. The squamosal has a very shallow glenoid fossa and a relatively large post-glenoid tubercle. The posterior part of the inferior border is prolonged downwards into an micinate process to close externally the mastoid antrum. Fig. 107.—The Temporal Bone at Birth. (Outer view.) POST-GLENOID TUBERCLE GLASERIAN FISSURE TYMPANIC ANNULUS PETRC-SQUAMOUS SUTURE PETROSAL STYLO-MASTOID FORAMEN TYMPANO-HYAL CAROTID CANAL The tympanic bone or annulus is a delicate horseshoe-shaped ossicle, attached by its anterior and posterior horns to the inferior border of the squamosal. The ear-bones are chiefly of interest from their size, for they are as large at birth as in the adult. The processus gracilis (Folian process) may be 2 cm. in length. The frontal consists of two bones separated by a median vertical (metopic) suture. The frontal eminence is very conspicuous, but the superciliary ridges and frontal sinuses are wanting. The nasal spine, which later becomes one of the most conspicuous features of this bone, is absent. There is no temporal ridge. The parietal is simply a quadrilateral lamina of bone, concave on its inner and