^1 OF THE PELVIS 211 The sacro-vertebral angle averages 117° in the male, and 130° in the female ; ^hile the pelvic inclination averages 155° in the male, and 150° in the female. 3. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS This group may again be subdivided into— {a) The sacro-iliac. (h) The sacro-coccygeal. (c) The intercoccy^eal. [d) The symphysis pubis. {a) The Sacro-iliac Synchrondrosis and Sacro-sciatic Ligaments Class.—AmpMar thro sis. Like the symphysis pubis, the sacro-iliac synchondrosis is an amphiarthrodial joint, but it differs from it in having an interosseous ligament as well as an interosseous, or symphysial, cartilage. The bones which enter into the joint are the sacrum and ilium, and they are bound together by the following ligaments :—- Anterior sacro-iliac. Superior sacro-iliac. Posterior sacro-iliac. Inferior sacro-iliac. Interosseous. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament (figs. 206, 207) consists of Avell-marked ghstening fibres which pass above into the superior, and below into the inferior, ligaments. It extends from the first three bones of the sEicrum to the ilium between the brim of the true pelvis and the great sacro-sciatic notch, blending with the periosteum of the sacrum and ilium as it passes away from the united edges of the bones. The superior sacro-iliac ligament (figs. 206, 207) extends across the upper margins of the joint, from the base of the sacrum to the iliac fossa, being well [marked along the brim of the pelvis, where it is thickened by some closely-packed fibres. Behind, it is far stronger, especially beneath the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra. This ligament is connected with the strong sacro-lumbar ligament, which spreads outwards and forwards over the joint to reach the iliac fossa and ilio-pectineal line. The posterior sacro-iliac ligament is of very great strength, extending between the back of the sacrum and the posterior two inches of the iliac crest, including the posterior superior spine. Strengthening the upper and back part of this fibrous expansion are some strong bundles of ligamentous fibres, which extend more or less transversely from the inner surface of the iliac crest: (i) to the articular process of I the first sacral vertebra ; (ii) to the bone between the articular process and the first I sacral foramen; and (iii) to the articular tubercle of the second sacral vertebra, forming a ridge over the second sacral foramen under which the nerve passes ; an I oblique band often connects this last fasciculus with the articular process of the I first sacral vertebra. Below this, the fibres pass downwards and inwards from the I last inch of the iliac crest to the side of the sacrum external to the second and j third posterior sacral foramina. To the outer edge of this ligament is attached the j fascia covering the erector spinse muscle. The inferior sacro-iliac ligament (fig. 207) is covered behind by the upper end [ of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; it consists of strong fibres extending from the lateral border of the sacrum below the articular facet, to the posterior iliac spines ;