488 THE MUSCLES 1 Nerve-supply.—From the second and third intercostals by fine filaments which! enter the outer part of its deep surface. I Action.—To raise the ribs into which it is inserted ; and therefore to assist inj inspiration. | Relations.—Superficially, the trapezius, levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideusj minor and major ; deeply, the vertebral aponeurosis which separates it from thei splenius and the more superficial spinal muscles ; farther outwards the musclej covers part of the external intercostals. j Variations.—The slips vary in mmiber. Sometimes it gives off a shp from its iippei! border or posterior surface which goes to the levator anguh scapulae, the mastoid process ! or the superior nuchal line. 2. SERRATUS POSTICUS INFERIOR The serratus posticus inferior—named also from its outer saw-like margin' and its position—is a quadrilateral sheet. \ Origin.—The spines of the two lower thoracic and tw^o upper lumbar vertebrae ■ Insertion.—The lower borders of the last four or five ribs external to theil angles, except in the case of the last rib which has no angle ; and as far forwardi" as the costal origins of the latissimus dorsi. Structure. —More than half of the muscle is aponeurosis, which is blended witlj that of the latissimus dorsi behind, and of the erector spinae in front, and forms i\ part of the vertebral aponeurosis, which blends with the posterior layer of th( lumbar fascia. The fleshy fibres are directed upwards and outAvards from thi;, aponeurosis, arising in an obhque line which is nearer the spine above than belo-w and inserted directly or with small tendinous attachments into the ribs. Ead; succeeding tooth slightly overlaps, and extends farther forwards than the om below. The middle teeth are the largest. Nerve-supply.—Filaments from the tenth and eleventh intercostals which ente the deep surface of the outer part of the muscle. Action.—(1) To depress the lower ribs ; (2) to fix them, so as to enable th ; diaphragm to contract. It is therefore in this respect a muscle of inspiration. j Relations.—Superficially, the latissimus dorsi; deeply, the erector spin^ with it upward continuations, also the levatores costarum, and the external intercostai muscles. i GENEEAL AERANGEMENT OF THE MUSCLES ACTING UPON THE SPINAL COLUMN THE VERTEBRAL APONEUROSIS Beneath the serrati postici are arranged what may be called the muscles of th back proper, viz. those which move the vertebral column and act chiefly upon th spines and transverse processes of the vertebrae and the parts of the skull whic. are serially continuous with them. They lie for the most part in the groove o either side of the spines of the vertebrae, and they are bound down and protecte by the strong vertebral aponeurosis which is blended below with the tendinouj origin of the latissimus dorsi, the serratus posticus inferior, and the erector spina Laterally, it is attached to the angles of the ribs. Above, it passes beneath tb tendon of the serratus posticus inferior, and is then lost in the thin fascia coverin the splenii. Iserl He: 1!, hct ads J