861 INTEBNAL POPLITEAL NERVE common, and take the form of a long slender nerve which runs along the inner side of the muscles, supplying them with numerous twigs. The external branch is directed outwards under cover of the extensor brevis digitorum, and, having supplied that muscle, ends in twigs which are distributed to the tarsal articulations. This nerve presents a gangliform enlargement near its commencement, thus resembling the anterior interosseous nerve in the superior extremity. The internal branch is directed forwards towards the interval between the first and second toes, where it is joined by a twig from the musculo-cutaneous, and then divides to supply the contiguous margins of the above-mentioned toes. In its course on the dorsum pedis it lies to the outer side of the dorsal artery of the foot, and it is crossed on its superficial surface by the innermost division of the extensor brevis digitorum. The INTERNAL POPLITEAL NEEVE is larger than the peroneal nerve, and runs downwards, following the same direction as the great sciatic, to reach the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it is continued into the posterior tibial nerve. In this course it occupies the middle vertical diameter of the popliteal space, and is the most superficially placed of the important contents of that space. It is overlapped by the hamstring muscles above and by the heads of the gastrocnemius below ; but is covered only by the skin and fasciae for about two inches above the line of the knee joint. The popliteal vein intervenes between the internal popliteal nerve and the artery, and the nerve is on a plane superficial to the vessels. In the upper part of the popliteal space the vessels are internal to the artery ; at the level of the knee joint they are immediately in front of the nerve ; and at the lower part of the space they are placed external to it. Branches.^—The branches of the internal popliteal nerve may be classified into cutaneous, articular, muscular, and terminal. (1) The cutaneous branch is termed nervus communicans tibialis. It arises from the internal pox^liteal about the centre of the popliteal space, and runs vertically downwards, under cover of the deep fascia, to reach the interval between the two heads of the gastrocnemius ; then, inclining a little outwards, it pierces the deep fascia, and unites with the communicans fibularis to form the short saphenous nerve. (2) The external or short saphenous nerve is formed about the middle of the calf (sometimes higher up or lower down), and runs downwards and outwards, accompanied by the vein of the same name, to reach the interval between the external malleolus and the calcaneum. It then runs forwards along the outer border of the foot, supplying numerous twigs to the integument of the region. Having communicated with the external branch of the musculo-cutaneous, it terminates by supplying the integument on the outer side of the little toe. Varieties.—In a large mimber of cases the distribution of this nerve is much more extensive. It may supply the fifth and fourth toes and the outer border of the third. In some cases the communicans fibularis does not join the communicans tibialis, but ends independently in the integuments of the calf. (3) The muscular branches of the internal popliteal nerve are distributed to the gastrocnemius, soleus, plantaris, and popliteus muscles. There is a separate branch for each head of the gastrocnemius. The branch to the popliteus arises lower down than the other branches. It crosses the superficial surface of the popliteal artery to reach the outer side of that vessel, runs downwards on the posterior surface of the popliteus, and winds round the lower border of that muscle to gain its deep or anterior surface, where it ends in the muscular substance. (4) The articular branches are three in number, and accompany the superior and inferior internal articular and the azygos branches of the popliteal artery, to be distributed to the knee joint.