656 THE VEINS The fronto-parietal, or anterior temporal, are contained in the posterior part of the frontal and in the anterior part of the parietal bone. They pass downwards, and end, partly in the deep temporal veins by perforating the greater ring of the sphenoid bone, and partly in the superior petrosal sinus. The external parietal, or posterior temporal, ramifies in the parietal bone, and, coursing downwards to the posterior inferior angle of that bone, passes either through a foramen in its inner table, or through the mastoid foramen into the lateral sinus. The occipital, or parieto-occipital, ramifies chiefly in the occipital bone, and opens into the occipital vein or into the lateral sinus. The diploic veins freely anastomose with one another in the adult; but in the foetus, before the bones have united, each system of veins is distinct. Fig. 386.—The Veins of the Diploe. (From a specimen in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Musemn,) 2. THE VENOUS SINUSES OF THE CEANIUM The venous sinuses of the cranium are endothelially lined blood-spaces situated between the periosteal and meningeal layers of the dura mater. They are the i channels by which the blood is conveyed from the cerebral veins, and from some of the veins of the meninges and diploe, into the veins of the neck. The sinuses of the '■ base of the skull also carry the chief part of the blood from the orbit and eyeball to \ the jugular veins. At certain spots the sinuses communicate with the superficial * veins by small vessels known as the emissary veins, which run through foramina . in the cranial bones. The venous sinuses are eighteen in number: six being disposed medianly | and singly; six laterally and in pairs. The median and single sinuses are:—(1) the superior longitudinal; (2) the inferior longitudinal; (3) the straight; (4) the occipital; (5) the circular ; and (6) the transverse or basilar. The lateral and paired sinuses are:—(7) the two lateral; (8) the two superior petrosal; (9) the two inferior petrosal; (10) the two cavernous ; (11) the two spheno-parietal (sinus alae