ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 904 Blood-vessels.—The arteries run in the central connective tissue of the lids, I mainly in the form of arches near the borders of the tarsus, from which twigs go ' to the different palpebral tissues. They are supplied by the lachrymal and palpebral \ branches of the ophthalmic, and by small branches derived from the temporal j artery. The veins are more numerous and larger than the arteries, and form a | close plexus beneath each fornix. They empty themselves into the veins of the j face at the inner, and into the orbital veins at the outer canthus. | The lymphatic vessels of the lids are numerous, and are principally situated in 1 the conjunctiva. Lymph-spaces also surround the follicles of the Meibomian i glands. The palpebral lymphatic vessels mainly pass through the preauricular ' gland ; but, sometimes at least, those from the inner half of the lower lid go to the I submaxillary lymphatic glands. i Nerves.—{a) Sensory. The upper lid is chiefly supplied by branches of the ; supraorbital and supratrochlear nerves, the lower lid by one or two branches of | the infraorbital. At the inner canthus the infratrochlear nerve also aids in the j supply, and, at the outer canthus, the lachrymal, {h) Motor. The palpebral part i of the orbicularis is supplied by branches of the facial nerve, which mainly enter \ it near the outer canthus. Miiller's palpebral muscles are supplied by the sympa- , thetic nervous system. j The inner palpebral lig^ament, or tendo oculi, has been referred to previously. Arising from the frontal process of the maxilla, it extends outwards over the front wall of the lachrymal sac, bends round the outer wall of the sac, and then passes backwards to the posterior crest on the lachrymal bone. It is thus U-shaped, having its limbs anterior and posterior, embracing the lachrymal sac ; the anterior : limb lies immediately beneath the skin, and is visible in the living. The palpebral : fibres of the orbicularis are inserted into the outer surface of both limbs, those attached to the posterior limb constituting Horner's muscle. The outer palpebral lig^ament is merely a stronger development of connective tissue in the orbicularis, i Both ligaments are connected with the tarsi as already mentioned. I The Lacheymal Appaeatus j The tears are secreted by an acinous gland, and flow through fine ducts to the upper outer part of the conjunctival sac, whence they are drained off through the j puncta, pass along the canaliculi into the lachrymal sac, and ultimately run down : the nasal duct to gain the inferior meatus of the nose. j The lachrymal gland is situated near the front of the outer part of the roof of j the orbit, lying in a depression in the orbital plate of the frontal bone. It consists ! of two very unequal parts, one placed above and the other beneath the tendinous j expansion of the levator palpebrae superioris, but small gaps in the expansion ! permit of connections between these two parts of the gland. The upper and larger subdivision {superior lachrymal gland) is a firm elongated body, about the size of a small almond; it has a greyish-red colour, and is made up of closely aggregated lobules. The upper surface (next the orbital roof) is convex, and its lower surface is slightly concave. Anteriorly, the gland almost reaches the upper orbital \ margin, and it extends backwards for approximately one-fourth the depth of the orbit, measuring about twelve millimetres in this direction. The outer border of ; the gland descends to near the insertion of the fascial expansion of the external rectus, while its inner border almost reaches the outer edge of the superior rectus ; its transverse measurement is about tw^enty millimetres. It is enveloped in a capsule, which is slung by strong fibrous bands passing to its inner border from the orbital margin (suspensory ligament of the gland). j The lower subdivision of the gland {inferior lachrymal gland) is composed of |