408 THE MUSCLES Structure.—Arising tendinous, the fleshy fibres run forwards and a httle out- wards to their short tendon of insertion, which is closely blended with that of the abductor minimi digiti. A few of the deeper fibres end in the metatarsal bone. Nerve-supply.—From the external plantar nerve by a branch which enters the under surface of the muscle. Action.—To flex and slightly abduct the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—Superficially, the flexor longus digitorum and abductor minimi digiti; deeply, the interossei of the outermost interspace. Variations.—-The insertion upon the metatarsal bone may form a separate muscle, the opponens digiti pedis quinti, or it may be entirelj^ absent. Fourth Layer The fourth layer consists of the seven interosseous muscles. INTEROSSEI The interossei—named from their position between the metatarsal bones—are,! like those of the hand, seven in number, three being plantar and four dorsal. The plantar are small and narrow fusiform bundles ; the dorsal are bipenniform and of a somewhat broader fusiform shape than the plantar. The interossei ofj the foot differ from those of the hand in the fact that they adduct and abduct with respect to a longitudinal axis through the line of the second toe; whereas in the! hand the median line passes through the middle finger. The plantar interossei.—Origin.—(1) The inner and lower surface of the three outer metatarsal bones ; (2) the adjacent part of the sheath of the peroneus longus tendon. Insertion.—(1) The inner side of the bases of the first phalanges of the three outer toes ; (2) the inner border of the expansions of the long extensor tendons or the back of the first phalanges of the same toes. The dorsal interossei arise from the adjacent surfaces of the metatarsal bone^ bounding each interosseous space. The first dorsal interosseous, however, differs { somewhat in its internal head, which is from the base only of the first metatarsal bone and the adjacent outer surface of the internal cuneiform, bone. Insertion.—The first dorsal interosseous is inserted into :—(1) the inner side gjI the base of the first phalanx of the second toe ; (2) the inner edge of the aponeurosis of the extensor tendon upon the back of the first phalanx. The second, third anc fourth are inserted respectively into :—(1) the outer side of the bases of the firsi phalanges of the second, third, and fourth toes ; (2) the outer border of the extenso] tendons upon the backs of the same phalanges. Structure.—The plantar interossei are penniform muscles consisting of fleshy fibres which run forwards to the outer side of a tendon which begins about th( middle of the space and becomes free opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones. : The dorsal interossei are bipenniform, and consist of fleshy fibres which coU' verge from both sides of the space upon a central tendon which begins about th(| middle of the interosseous space and becomes free opposite the heads of the meta | tarsal bones. The tendons of both sets of muscles before their insertion lie abov(| the deep transverse metatarsal ligament which separates them from the tendon; of the lumbricales. On the back of the foot the dorsal interossei are alone visible j in the sole of the foot both sets are seen. j Nerve-supply.—From the external plantar nerve by filaments which enter th( plantar aspect of the muscles, somewhat behind the middle of the interosseou space.