THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 734 is free for some distance, except at its attachment in the middle line to the fornix and septum lucidmn. This free portion forms the roof of the lateral ventricles. The upper surface remains free for a shorter distance than the lower, and ends at the floor of the callosal fissure, where the fibres of the corpus callosum enter the sub- stance of the hemisphere. It forms in the transverse direction a gentle curve with the concavity directed upwards. Viewed from above, the corpus callosum is seen to present a transverse striation, this being an indication of the bundles of fibres passing from hemisphere to hemisphere. These transverse striations are crossed superficially by narrow longitudinal bands, the strise longitudinales and the strife longitudinales laterales or t^eni^e tectse. The striae longitudinales are placed one on each side of the middle line, and lie very close together, leaving a narrow interval between them which is called the raphe. Traced forwards, they slightly diverge and pass round the genu to the Fig. 413.—A Dissection of the AVhite Matter of the Posterior Part of THE Eight Cerebral Hemisphere. (Viewed from the inner side. Schwalbe.) REDUPLICATED SPLENIUM OF PORTION OF SPLENIU^f CORPUS CALLOSUM FORCEPS MAJOR CORPUS- CALLOSUM OPTIC- THALAMUS CORPUS- GENICULATUM INTERNUM TEGMENTUM PULYINAR rostrum ; here they separate more widely, and pass along the inner margin of the anterior perforated space, under the name of the peduncles of the corpus callosum, and are lost at the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius. If the striae longi- tudinales be traced backwards, they will be seen to diverge as they pass round the splenium and join the forceps major on each side. The tsenisB tectse are placed on the upper surface of the corpus callosum under cover of the gyrus fornicatus. They pass backwards over the splenium and spread out on the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus and on the uncinate convolution to form the substantia reticularis alba. They are merely stray bundles of a system of fibres (cingulum) which is contained within the gyrus fornicatus. The fibres of the corpus callosum after entering the cerebral substance spread out to every part of the hemispheres (with the exception of small portions of the temporal lobes) in the following sets :— The fibres from the genu pass forwards and outwards into the anterior part of the frontal lobe, and then sweep inwards forming the forceps minor.