203 OF VEBTEBBAL COLUMN they unite, and are widest in area and also thickest in the lumbar region. In the cervical and lumbar regions they are thicker in front than behind, and cause the convexity forwards of the cervical, and increase that in the lumbar ; the curve in the thoracic region being almost entirely due to the shape of the bodies, is, however, somewhat increased by the discs. Without the discs the column loses a quarter of its length, and assumes a curve with the concavity forward, most marked a little below the mid-thoracic region. Such is the curve of old age, which is due to the shrinking and drying up of the intervertebral substances. The disc between the axis and third cervical is the thinnest of all; that between the fifth lumbar and sacrum is the thickest, and is much thicker in front than behind. The intervertebral discs are in relation, in front with the anterior common ligament; behind, with the Fig. 202.—Posterior Common Ligament of the Spine. (Thoracic region.) (Pedicles cut through, and posterior arches of vertebrae removed.) posterior ; laterally, with the short lateral; and in the thoracic region with the inter- articular and stellate ligaments. The anterior common ligament (figs. 195 and 201) commences as a narrow band attached to the under surface of the occipital bone in the median line, just in front of the occipito-atlantal ligament, of which it forms the thickened central portion. Attached firmly to the tubercle of the atlas, it passes down as the central portion of the atlanto-axoidean ligament, in the mid-line, to the front of the body of the axis. It now begins to widen out as it descends, until it is nearly two inches (5 cm.) wide in the lumbar region. Below, it is fixed to the upper segment of the sacrum, becoming lost in periosteum about the middle of that bone; but is again distinguishable in front of the sacro-coccygeal joint, as the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament. Its structure is bright, pearly-white, and glistening with well-defined borders best marked in the thoracic region. It is