THE UBINABY OBGANS 1048 glomeruli lying within the csecal origin of the uriniferous tubules (capsules of Bowman). Examined more closely, it displays a number of small pyramidal i groups of tubules, some belonging to the cortex proper, with their bases resting j upon the bases of the Malpighian pyramids, the apices directed towards, but not I reaching, the periphery ; others forming a part of the columnae Bertini, and! disposed almost at right angles to the last. These cortical groups are called j pyramids of Ferrein, in contradistinction to the much larger medullary pyramids \ of Malpighi. i The kidney of a foetus differs from that of the adult in the lobular subdivision i of its surface, each lobule corresponding to the base of a pyramid of Malpighi' capped by a thin layer of cortex. Such a condition is permanent in some of the! lower animals ; but in man the superficial indications of morphological segmenta-1 tion usually become obliterated during the progress of growth of the cortical tissue,' and are seldom visible after the age of ten. j Uriniferous tubes (fig. 614).—The secreting tubules commence by a number| of spherical capsules (capsules of Bowman), which lie in the cortex. From each Fig. 613.—Horizontal Section of Kidney, showing the Sinus. COLUMN PYRAMID Cortico- . OF OF medullary j BERTINI MALPIGHI artery Artery CORTEX WITH CAPSULE" capsule passes a tube with a narrow neck, which becomes wide and convoluted then, narrowing again, runs down into the subjacent Malpighian pyramid, form! a loop (looped tube of Henle), returns into the cortex, where it again become! dilated and contorted, and, after undergoing a final constriction, opens into '\ straight collecting tube, the axial element of a pyramid of Ferrein. The collectin: tubes run into the Malpighian pyramids, unite with each other to form a smalkl number of larger tubes, which terminate by opening on to the papillary apex of th pyramid, and into the corresponding calyx of the duct. The tubes are lined wit | epithelium throughout, the cells being tesselated in the capsule, irregularly cubic?; in the convoluted tubes, flattened on the loops of Henle, and columnar in th' cortical collecting tubes and in the straight tubes of the medulla. ; Vessels (fig. 614).—The kidney is very vascular. The larger arterial branches,: traced in section from the point at which they pierce the bottom of the sinus, wi | be found to run up between the pyramids of Malpighi to subdivide at thai bases into cortico-meduUary arches which lie between the cortex and medulk