26 THE SKELETON THE BONES OF THE SKULL The skeleton of the head is called the skull: it contains, in the adult, twenty- nine separate bones. For descriptive purposes they are divided in two groups : those of the skull proper, and the appendicular elements. I. The Skull I Occipital. [a) Basilar Bones-j Sphenoid. I Temporals. (h) Roof Bones Parietals. Frontal. Epipterics. , Ethmoid. Sphenoidal tur- binals. (c) Nasal Region^ Turbinals. Lachrymals. Vomer. ^Nasals. Maxillffi. {d) Facial Bones •{ Palatines. 1 Malar s. Mandible. Malleus. II. Appendicular Elements Incus. Hyoid. Stapes. Styloid. Internal pterygoid. The epiiJterics are not always separate in the adult skull: the styloid ankyloses with the temporal, and the internal pterygoid with the sphenoid. THE OCCIPITAL This bone forms the back and a portion of the base of the skull. At birth it consists of four distinct parts disposed around the foramen magnum (fig. 34). These, in the adult, fuse together and form a single bone, which ankyloses with the sphenoid. The four parts of the occipital are—the squamo-occipital, two ex-occipitals, and a basi-occipital. The lines of union of these parts are easily distinguished even in the oldest skull. The squamo-occipital is saucer-shaped, deeply concave on its cerebral, but convex on its external aspect. It consists of two parts which have different modes of origin. The posterior surface is divided by a ridge, the superior nuchal line, into a lozenge-shaped superior portion with a smooth surface and an inferior rough portion. The upper is the interparietal, and the lower the supra-occipital segment. The interparietal portion not infrequently persists as an independent ossicle (fig. 35). The supra-occipital is divided into two lateral halves by a median vertical ridge—the external occipital crest—which ascends from the middle of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, to terminate at the external occipital protuber- ance, or inion, near the middle of the squamo-occipital. The protuberance and crest give attachment to the ligamentum nuchse. Each lateral half of the supra-occipital presents three pairs of transverse ridges, the nuchal lines. Of these the superior is usually the least cons|)icuous, but most curved; frequently it is absent; beginning at the external occipital pro- tuberance, it curves outwards to the lateral angle. It affords attachment to the epicranial aponeurosis and to few fibres of the occiijito-frontalis muscle. The middle nuchal line (sometimes called the superior curved line) commences a little distance below the protuberance, and curves outwards to end below the