585 ABDOMINAL AOBTA of the abdomen from the highest point of one iliac crest to the highest point of the other. The vena cava inferior, which accompanies the abdominal aorta, lies to its right side. Below, the vein is in contact with the artery and on a somewhat posterior plane; but above, it is separated from the aorta by the right crus of the diaphragm, and in consequence of the caval opening in the diaphragm being placed further forward than the opening for the aorta, is on an anterior plane. Relations.—In front (fig. 364), the aorta is successively crossed from above downwards by the right lobe of the liver, the solar plexus, the lesser omentum, the ter- mination of the oesophagus in the stomach, the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon, the splenic vein or commencement of the vena porta, the pancreas, the left j renal vein, the third portion of the duodenum, the mesentery, the aortic plexus of the sympathetic nerve, the spermatic or ovarian arteries, the inferior mesenteric artery, the median lumbar lymphatic glands and lymphatic vessels, and the small intestines. Of these structures the solar plexus, the aortic plexus, the splenic vein or the I commencement of the vena porta, the pancreas, the left renal vein, the duodenum, the lymphatics, the spermatic or ovarian arteries, and the peritoneal reflexions are in contact with the aorta. Behind, the aorta lies upon the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae and intervening intervertebral cartilages, the anterior common ligament, the origin of the left crus of the diaphragm, and the left lumbar veins. On the right side from above downwards are the right crus of the diaphragm, j the great splanchnic nerve, the Spigelian lobe of the liver, the receptaculum chyli I and beginning of the thoracic duct (the two latter structures are on a posterior plane), the right semilunar ganglion, and the vena cava inferior. On the left side are the left crus of the diaphragm, the left splanchnic nerve, and the left semilunar ganglion. The tail of the pancreas is also in contact with the aorta on the left side, as are, too, the small intestines, but separated from it by peritoneum. Variations in the Abdominal Aorta Variations in the abdominal aorta, except as regards its place of division and some irregularity in the origin and number of its branches, are not common. According to Quain, in ten out of every thirteen subjects examined, the bifincation took place within half an inch above or below the level of the highest part of the crest of the ilium. The commonest situation for its bifurcation with reference to the vertebrae is perhaps opposite the lower border of the body of the fourth lumbar, but it may divide opposite the disc between the fourth and fifth lumbar, or rarely opposite the fifth lumbar. A higher division than at the usual spot is less common. The arterj?-, however, has been found in exceptional instances dividing as high as the origin of the renal arteries, or even as high as the second lumbar vertebra. The following rare variations have been met with :—(A) The aorta passing through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm. (B) The aorta lying on the right side of the vena cava ; the vein then passes over the upper part of the aorta to gain the caval opening. (C) The aorta with a vena cava on each side, the left vein passing across the upper part of the artery to open into the right vein just below the caval opening. (D) The aorta giving off a pulmonary branch close to the origin of the coeliac axis, the abnormal vessel then passing through the cesophageal opening, and supplying a branch to the lower lobe of each lung. The variations in the branches of the aorta are described under each branch. Beanches of the Abdominal Aorta The branches of the abdominal aorta are given off in the following order from above downwards (fig. 363) (1) Eight and left phrenic; (2) coeliac axis; (3) right and left suprarenal or capsular; (4) right and left first lumbar; (5) superior mesenteric; (6) right and left renal; (7) right and left spermatic ; (8) right and left second lumbar ;