48 THE SKELETON various elements fuse ; and the tympanic annnlus o^ro^\'s rapidly and forms the tympanic plate. Growth in the tympanic bone takes place most rapidly from the tubercles at its upper extrenhties, and in conse(]uence of the slow growth of the lower segment a deep notch is formed ; gradually tlie tubercles coalesce, leaving a foramen in the anterior part of the bony meatus which persists until puberty, and even in the adult. In most skulls a cleft capable of receiving the nail remains between the tympanic element and the mastoid process ; this is the auricular fissure. The anterior portion of the tympanic plate forms with the inferior border of the squamosal a cleft known as the Glaserian fi.ssure, which is subsequently encroached upon by the growth of the petrosal. As the tympanic plate increases in size it joins the outer wall of the carotid canal and presents a prominent lower edge, known as the vaginal process. Fig. 56.—The Mastoid Antrum of an Adult. (After Symington.) MASTOID ANTRUM SEMICIRCULAR CANALS LATERAL SINUS AIR CELLS OF MASTOID The mastoid process becomes distinct about the first year, coincident with the ob- literation of the petro-squamous suture. It increases in thickness by deposit from the periosteum. Towards puberty, rarely earlier, the process becomes pneumatic, the air- cells being lined by delicate mucous membrane. In old skulls the air-cells may extend into the jugular process of the occipital bone. At birth the mastoid antrum is relatively large and bounded externally by a thin plate of bone belonging to the squamosal. As the mastoid increases in thickness the antrum comes to lie at a greater depth from the surface and becomes relatively smaller. The size of the antrum and the variations in thickness of its outer wall at the age of three years, nine years, and in the adult, are shown in figs. 54, 55 and 56. In each case the sections were made slightly posterior to the external auditory meatus. In 20 per cent, of skulls there are no air-cells in the mastoid process. THE PAEIETAL The t^vo parietals form a large portion of the vault and sides of the skull; they are interposed between the frontal anteriorly and the occipital posteriorly. Each parietal presents two surfaces, four borders, and four angles. The external surface is convex and smooth : the convexity, best marked in young bones, is greatest near the centre, wdiich is termed the parietal emmence. Crossing the middle of the bone are the t^vo temporal ridges; the lower is the better marked, and limits the origin of the temporal muscle. The upper ridge is less constant, and it gives attachment to the temporal fascia. The internal surface is concave and marked with depressions corresponding to the cerebral convolutions. Numerous vertical deep furrows for the branches of the middle meningeal artery radiate from the anterior inferior angle and lower border of the bone. Along the superior margin of the bone there is a groove ^vhich, ^vhen articulated with the opposite bone, forms a furrow which receives the superior longitudinal sinus. In adult bones