374 THE MUSCLES Origin.—(1) The anterior four-fifths of the outer lip of the crest of the ihum (2) the outer surface of the ihum, bordered above by the middle portion of the outej lip of the crest of the ilium, and in the posterior fifth by the superior gluteal \me below by the middle gluteal line; (3) the strong process of the fascia lata whic]| invests the outer surface of the muscle and separates it behind from the gluteuj maximus ; (4) the intermuscular septum which intervenes between it and thi gluteus minimus just below the anterior superior spine of the ilium. | Insertion.—The well-marked oblique impression extending from the posterioj superior to the anterior inferior angle on the outer surface of the greater trochantei Structure.—Arising by fleshy and tendinous fibres intermingled, the niuscl converges fanwise upon both surfaces of a strong flat tendon which is visibl rather higher upon the deep than the outer surface of the muscle. The front parte the muscle is stronger, and it gradually decreases in thickness towards its posteric edge. A bursa is contained between the deep portion of the tendon and th triangular space that lies in front of the impression upon the outer surface of th greater trochanter. Nerve-supply.—From the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, and the first sacu nerve by branches of the superior gluteal nerve which enter the deep surface of tl muscle near the middle of its posterior border. Action.—To abduct the hip joint. It will also by its thicker and strong( anterior fibres rotate the thigh inwards. Its posterior fibres, on the other banc which are not so strong will tend slightly to rotate the thigh outwards. Actiiij from below, it tends to support the pelvis upon the femur and to approximate tl crest of the ilium to the great trochanter. This is by far the most important ar frequent of its actions. In walking, if it were not for the powerful contraction i the gluteus medius and its associated muscles the gluteus minimus and the tens< vaginae femoris, the pelvis would not be held firm upon the upper part of the thi^ when one leg is upon the ground and the other is being advanced in the forwai step. In fast walking the rotatory action of the muscle comes into play, for n only does the gluteus medius of the limb which is resting upon the ground suppc the pelvis by drawing downwards the crest of the ilium, but, by drawing backwar the front portion of that crest, it throws forwards the opposite side of the pelvis ai increases the length of the stride. Relations.—Superficially, the fascia lata, gluteus maximus, and tensor vagii femoris ; deeply, the gluteus minimus, superior gluteal vessels and nerve, and t great trochanter. Variations.—Sometimes a partially distinct bundle of fibres is inserted into the front the upper border of the greater trochanter. A slip may be given from the lower border the pyriformis. Third Layer The third layer consists of one muscle—the gluteus minimus tinuous with the external rotators which form the next group. GLUTEUS MINIMUS The gluteus minimus (fig. 290)—named from its position and smaller is a thick triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The outer surface of the iUum between the middle and infer gluteal lines ; (2) a fibrous septum which intervenes between its fibres and thost ji the gluteus medius belc\\ the anterior superior spine; (3) the front of the capsf of the hip joint. I -which is cc