646 THE VEINS THE VEINS OF THE HEABT The cardiac or coronary veins return the blood from the substance of the heart. They accompany the corresponding coronary arteries, and terminate for the most part in a dilated vein known as the coronary sinus. This opens directly into the right auricle of the heart, between the bicuspid opening and the opening of the inferior vena cava. Some smaller veins from the heart's substance (ven^e minim^e cordis) open separately and directly into the right auricle at the bottom of some of the small depressions known as the foramina Thebesii. The coronary sinus is situated at the back of the heart, in the groove between the left auricle and left ventricle. It measures about an inch in length. Its Fig. 383.—The Coronary Sinus. Left carotid arterij Left subclavian artery Aorta Ductus arteriosus Pulmonary artery Left pulmonary veins- LEFT AURICLE Left coronary artery Left marginal artery Oblique vein of Marshall Left marginal vein PERICARDIUM Coronary sinus Posterior cardiac vein Anterior interventricular branch of left coronary Riaht carotid arterii Innominate artery Vena cava superior Pdght pulmonary veins Rif^HT AURICLE cava inferior Pdght coronary artery Posterior interventricvlai vein Posterior interventricular branch of right coronary opening into the auricle is guarded by the so-called Thebesian or coronary valve. It receives the following tributaries: (1) The great coronary or cardiac vein, of which it appears to be the large and dilated end; (2) the posterior cardiac or posterior interventricular vein ; (3) the right auricular vein ; and (4) the oblique vein. (1) The great coronary or cardiac vein is formed by the union of {a) the ante- rior interventricular vein, which runs upwards from the apex of the heart, in the groove between the right and left ventricles, in company with the artery of that name; with {h) the left auricular vein, which returns the blood from the left auricle. The vein thus formed then runs round the left side of the heart, in the groove between the left auricle and left ventricle, and terminates in the coronary sinus at the spot where the latter is joined by the oblique vein. Its entrance into the sinus