925 THE TONGUE The mucous membrane of the posterior third of the tongue contains abundant lymphoid tissue, collected into rounded masses. This often becomes much developed, and gives to this part of the tongue an irregular nodular appearance. A fibrous septum separates the halves of the tongue and extends in the middle plane from base to apex; and a strong fibrous membrane, the hypoglossal membrane, passes from beneath the base of the tongue to the body of the hyoid bone. ! The Muscles of the Tongue.—The muscles of the tongue are both extrinsic, and special or intrinsic. The extrinsic muscles are the hyo-giossus, genio-hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, palato-giossus, and a small part of the superior constrictor. The intrinsic muscles.—The lingualis superior constitutes a superficial longi- j, tudinal stratum, which extends from the base to the tip of the organ, immediately I beneath the mucous membrane. The fibres form short fascicles attached to the overlying tissues, and are placed between the hyo- and stylo-glossi muscles of the opposite sides of the tongue, both pairs of which, near the base, overlap the fibres of the lingualis. The inferior lingualis is composed of two bands which reach from the base to the apex on the under surface of the tongue. Posteriorly some of the fibres become attached to the body of the hyoid bone. Each of these bands is placed between the hyo- and genio-hyo-glossus, and near the tip some of its fibres mix with those of the stylo-glossus muscle. The transverse fibres mixed with fat lie between the two muscles just described, and form a considerable part of the bulk of the tongue. They take origin from the median fibrous septum, and, curving outwards and upwards, are inserted into the sides and dorsum of the organ. The vertical fibres decussate with the transverse, and pass from the dorsum to the under surface of the tongue in curves with their concavities looking outwards. The fibres become shorter as they approach the margin of the tongue. Arteries.—The arteries are derived from the lingual, facial, and ascending pharyngeal. Nerves.—The nerves are—the lingual branch of the mandibular division of the fifth, which supplies the papillse of the fore part and sides of the tongue ; the lingual branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, which supplies the base and sides, in- cluding the circumvallate papillaB; and fine branches from the superior laryngeal, which reach the root close to the epiglottis. The hypoglossal supplies the muscular substance of the tongue, as well as most of the extrinsic muscles; and the chorda tympani through the facial contributes also some filaments.