THE STOMACH 997 I Relations to surrounding parts.—The degree of obliquity of the stomach in its relation to the long axis of the body has been a disputed point, the majority of luthorities holding that it lies slightly obliquely from left to right; while a few Luschka and Lesshaft) maintain that its direction is vertical. In an early period )f development the organ is certainly vertical, and in rare instances this position nay be maintained throughout life. As a rule, however, the organ is placed 3bliquely, and lies in the left hypochondriac and epigastric regions (figs. 578, 582, md 583). The cardiac end, or fundus, reaches as high as the level of the sixth chondro- ^ternal articulation, being a little above and behind the heart apex. The cardiac orifice is opposite the seventh left costal cartilage, and is about one inch from the jternum. Behind, it is about on the level of the ninth thoracic spine. The i^ylorus s on a lower level and nearer the surface than the cardiac end, and is opposite a Doint to the right of the middle line two to three inches below the sterno-xiphoid irticulation, on the level of a line drawn between the bony ends of the seventh nbs (fig. 582). Behind, it is on a level with the twelfth thoracic spine (fig. 583). Fig. 567.—Anterior Surface of the Stomacjh. pylorus cardiac orifice ANTRUM PYLORI The ijosterior surface of the stomach looks backwards and downwards, lying on ithe transverse meso-colon, spleen, splenic artery, pancreas, left kidney and supra- renal capsule, and great abdominal vessels (figs. 586, 590). Above. Liver, small omentum, diaphragm. In Front. (From left to right.) Diaphragm, abdominal wall, liver. GENERAL RELATIONS OF THE STOMACH Behind. Transverse meso-colon, pancreas crura, solar plexus, great vessels, spleen, left kidney, and capsule. Below. Great omentum, transverse colon, gastro-splenic omentum. The anterior surface looks upwards and forwards. Its relations are of import- ance in connection with the operation of gastrostomy. A certain portion of this