632 THE ABTERIES anastomosing either with the fifth plantar digital artery (princeps hallucis) derived I from the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis, or with the branch given off | by the fifth plantar digital to the inner side of the great toe (figs. 378, 379). | Relations.—The artery is at first under cover of the abductor hallucis, but afterwards lies in the interval between that muscle and the flexor brevis digitorum. It is covered by the skin and superficial fascia, but not by the plantar fascia, since it lies between the middle and inner portions of that structure. The branches of the internal plantar are small and irregular in their origin, i course, and distribution. The following are described :— \ (1) The muscular branches supply the abductor hallucis, and flexor brevis ' digitorum. i (2) The cutaneous branches supply the skin over the course of the vessel. 1 (3) The articular sink deeply into the sole, and supply the articulations on the : inner side of the foot, and anastomose with branches of the external plantar artery, i (4) The anastomotic run beneath the abductor hallucis and round the inner side . of the foot, to anastomose with the internal tarsal branch of the dorsalis pedis. (5) The superficial digital are very small twigs which accompany the digital ' branches of the internal plantar nerves, and anastomose with the plantar digital arteries in the first, second, and third spaces. At times a twig from one of these branches joins the external plantar artery to form a superficial plantar arch. ; THE ANTERIOK TIBIAL ARTERY The anterior tibial artery (fig. 380)—the smaller of the two branches into which the popliteal artery divides at the lower border of the popliteus muscle—at first courses forwards between the two heads of origin of the tibialis posticus, and, after passing between the tibia and fibula through an aperture in the upper part of the interosseous membrane, runs downwards on the front and outer aspect of the leg, \ between the anterior muscles, as far as the front of the ankle joint (fig. 380). Below this spot it is known as the dorsalis pedis. The course of the vessel is indicated by a line drawn from the front of the head of the fibula to a point midway between j the two malleoli. | The artery is accompanied by two veins which communicate with each other at frequent intervals across it. It is also accompanied in the lower three-fourths of its course by the anterior tibial nerve. The nerve, which winds round the head of the fibula, and pierces the extensor longus digitorum, first comes into contact with the outer side of the artery somewhere about the upper third of the leg ; then, in the middle third of the leg, it gets a little in front of the artery, and in the lower third again lies to its outer side. Relations.—The artery at first lies in the triangle formed by the two heads of the tibialis posticus and the popliteus muscle ; and, as it passes through the hole in \ the interosseous membrane, it has the tibia on one side and the fibula on the other. Posteriorly in its course down the leg it lies in its upper two-thirds upon the interosseous membrane, to which it is closely bound by fibrous bands; and in its lower third upon the front of the tibia and the ankle joint. To its inner side along its upper two-thirds is the tibialis anticus muscle ; but at the lower third it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis, and then for the rest of its course has this tendon overlapping it or to its inner side. On its outer side it is in contact in its upper third with the extensor longus digitorum muscle; in its middle third with the extensor proprius hallucis ; but, as this muscle crosses to the inner side of the artery, the vessel usually for a very short \ part of its course comes again into contact with the extensor longus digitorum. ( In front the artery is covered by the skin, superficial and deep fascia. In its