548 THE ABTEBIES subscapular fossa, and anastomose with the suprascapular, infrascapular, and subscapular arteries, {d) Muscular branches, to the muscles between which it runs and to the latissimus dorsi. These branches anastomose with the posterior divisions of the intercostal arteries. (2) The superficial cervical artery, smaller than the posterior scapular, ascends under cover of the anterior margin of the trapezius, lying upon the levator anguli scapulae and splenius muscles. It supplies branches to the trapezius, levator a3iguli scapulae, and splenius muscles, and the posterior chain of lymphatic glands. Itj anastomoses with the superficial branch of the princeps cervicis which descends from the occipital between the splenius and complexus. It is accompanied by two veins. This artery may arise directly from the thyroid axis, or from the third part of thej subclavian artery. THE INTEENAL MAMMAEY AETEKY The internal mammary artery (fig. 344) comes off from the lower part of th( first portion of the subclavian, usually opposite the thyroid axis, close to the inneij edge of the scalenus anticus, occasionally opposite the vertebral, or at a spo between these two vessels. It descends- with a slight inclination forwards an(| inwards, under cover of the clavicle, and enters the thorax behind the cartilage o j the first rib, and thence passes down behind the cartilages of the next succeeding j ribs, about half an inch from the external margin of the sternum, to the sixtlj interspace, where it divides into the superior epigastric and musculo-phrenic. I j is accompanied by two veins, which unite into one trunk behind the first intercosta muscle, and pass to the inner side of the artery into the corresponding ven : innominata; occasionally on the right side into the vena cava superior direc The artery may be divided into two portions, the cervical and the thoracic. The cervical portion is covered by the sterno-mastoid muscle, subclavian veil and internal jugular vein, and is crossed obliquely, from without inwards, by ih phrenic nerve. It rests upon the pleura and courses round the upper part of tb innominate vein. There is no branch from this part of the artery. The thoracic portion lies behind the cartilages of the six upper ribs, an in the interspace between the ribs has in front of it the pectoralis major and tl internal intercostal muscles and the external intercostal membrane. Behind, it in contact above with the pleura, but it is separated from it lower down by sli}; of the triangularis sterni. On the left side the artery between the fourth ai sixth rib may be said to be in the anterior mediastinum the pleura here formir a notch for the heart. In the first, second, and third spaces the artery, if wounde can be easily tied ; but in the fourth space the operation is attended with mo difficulty. The remaining spaces are so narrow that a portion of the cartila^ would have to be removed to expose the vessel. The branches of the internal mammary artery are :—(1) The superior phreni (2) the mediastinal, or thymic ; (3) the pericardiac ; (4) the sternal; (5) the anteri intercostals ; (6) the perforating ; (7) the lateral infracostal; (8) the superi epigastric ; and (9) the musculo-phrenic. (1) The superior phrenic, or comes nervi phrenici, is a long slender ve&sd whi comes off from the internal mammary just after it has entered the chest, descends with the phrenic nerve, at first between the pleura and innominate vei: then between the pleura and the vena cava superior; and lastly, between t! pleura and the pericardium to the diaphragm, where it anastomoses with the ott! diaphragmatic arteries. It gives branches both to the pleura and pericardium, i (2) The mediastinal or thymic branches come ofi^ irregularly from the interi mammary. They are of small size, and supply the connective tissue, fat, a Ik