426 THE MUSCLES muscles contained in the parietes may be divided into vertical and transvers The former, three in number, are situated two in front, and one behind ; while tl, latter, also three in number, pass transversely, or with some obliquity, between tl anterior and posterior boundaries of the space. ! The two lateral halves unite in front in a strong fibrous band called the line! alba, which stretches from the tip of the ensiform cartilage to the upper part of tl symphysis pubis. It is partly formed by vertical fibres stretching between thes two points, but chiefly by the interlacement of the transverse and oblique banc of fibrous tissue which pass between the aponeuroses of the muscles upon eith( side. In its lower two-fifths it is not more than one-eighth of an inch broad in its upper three-fifths it is broader, usually not less than a quarter of an incj in width, but in some bodies it may be stretched to a much greater extent. A\ the junction of the lower two-fifths and upper three-fifths is the small fibrous rirJ of the unibilicus through which pass the remnants of the foetal vessels. i Anteeioe Vertical Muscles These are two in number—the pyramidalis and rectus abdominis. 1. PYEAMIDALIS ^ The pyramidalis (fig. 266)—named somewhat fancifully from its triangulsl shape—is a fan-shaped sheet of muscular fibre forming a right-angled triangL of which the shortest side corresponds to the origin, and the other side containiu' the right angle to the linea alba. ' Origin.—(1) The front of the pubic crest ; and (2) the fibrous structure! which cover the front of the body of the os pubis and its symphysis. i Insertion.—The linea alba at a point about half-way between the pubes anj the umbilicus. j Structure.—Arising by a short tendinous sheet, the fleshy fibres converge as the { pass upwards. Those nearer to the middle line ascend vertically, while those whic arise near the pubic spine pass obliquely upwards and inwards to the tendinouj insertion of the muscle into the linea alba three or four inches above th\ symphysis pubis. | Nerve-supply.—From the eleventh and twelfth thoracic nerves and from th ilio-hypogastric branch of the lumbar plexus, through their terminal filament which enter the deep surface of the muscle. ! Action.—By its contraction it pulls upon the linea alba and so upon the lowe end of the ensiform cartilage. It will therefore assist the rectus in flexion of th| thorax upon the pelvis, or of the pelvis upon the thorax. It can also help feebly 11 compress the abdominal viscera. Relations.—Superficially, the aponeuroses of the transverse abdominal muscles ; deeply, the rectus abdominis, from which it is separated by a thin fibrous lamella. | Variations.—The height to which this muscle extends is variable. It may be absen j on one or both sides; or it may be double. 2. EECTUS ABDOMINIS The rectus abdominis (fig. 266)—named from its straight direction—is[a strong ribbon-shaped muscle running vertically on either side of the linea alba from th j pubes to the ensiform and adjacent costal cartilages. ' Origin.—By two tendons : (1) the larger or outer head from the whole of th j