THE ABTEBIES 534 artery, and then, turning slightly outwards, dips under the edge of the uncinate convolution, and, entering the transverse fissure at the lower end of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, ends in the choroid plexus and supplies the hippo- campus major and corpus fimbriatum. (8) THE ANTERIOK CEREBRAL ARTERY The anterior cerebral artery (fig. 340)—one of the terminal branches into which the internal carotid divides in the fissure of Sylvius—passes at first forwards and inwards across the anterior perforated space between the olfactory and optic nerves to the longitudinal fissure where it approaches its fellow of the opposite side, and communicates with it by a short transverse trunk, about two lines long, known as the anterior communicating artery. Onwards from this spot it runs side by side with its fellow in the longitudinal fissure round the genu of the corpus ! '^^ callosum ; then, turning backwards, it continues along the upper surface of that ' commissure, and, after giving off large branches to the frontal and parietal lobules, anastomoses with the posterior cerebral artery. The branches of the anterior cerebral are:—(a) Communicating; {h) ganglionic, or central; (c) commissural ; [d) hemispheral, or cortical. (a) Communicating'.—The anterior communicating is a transverse trunk about two lines in length, connecting the right and left anterior cerebral arteries. It lies immediately in front of the optic commissure across the lamina cinerea. It gives off some of the antero-median branches which pass from the anterior cerebral 1 to the fore end of the caudate nucleus. Sometimes the anterior cerebral arteries, instead of communicating by a transverse trunk, coalesce for a short distance and then again divide. {h) Ganglionic, or central.—The antero-median group, together with the antero- median branches of the anterior communicating, pass through the lamina cinerea and supply the fore end of the caudate nucleus. j (c) Commissural.—These supply the corpus callosum. (d) The hemispheral or cortical branches.—(i) The orbital, three or four in number, supply the inferior surface of the first frontal convolution, and give off small twigs to the olfactory bulb, (ii) The margino-frontal arise from the artery as it lies on the corpus callosum, and, after supplying the marginal convolution, pass on to the convex surface of the hemisphere and further supply the first andi second frontal convolutions and the upper part of the ascending frontal convolution.; (iii) The calloso-marginal supplies the callosal convolution and the upper part of the marginal convolution, (iv) The quadrate is a branch to the convolution ol that name. (9) THE MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY The middle cerebral artery (fig. 340)—the larger of the two terminal division; of the internal carotid—passes obliquely upwards and outwards into the fissure o Sylvius, and opposite the insula or island of Reil divides into its hemispheral o: cortical branches. The branches of the middle cerebral are :—{a) Ganglionic, or central; and (h\ \^ hemispheral, or cortical. i ^kse {a) Ganglionic, or central.—(i) The caudate, two or three small branches, aris i \{^^ from the inner aspect of the artery and pass through the inner part of the floo j 't^i^^ of the fissure of Sylvius to the head of the caudate nucleus, (ii) The anter( ; I', lateral are numerous small arteries, which pass through the anterior perforate space and supply the caudate nucleus (except its head), the internal capsule, andpai of the optic thalamus, (iii) The lenticulo-striate, a larger branch of the anterc tm i((7 iiliirff