METENGEFHALON 765 which are nnitecl in the middle line by a grey commissure. In the centre of this commissure is the central canal of the cord. This central canal extends upwards into the lower or distal part of the medulla, but, in the upper part of the last- named structure, the posterior columns diverge from one another so that the central canal opens out and expands into the floor of the fourth ventricle. There- fore the ependyma which surrounds the central canal, together with the grey masses at the bases of both anterior and posterior horns, is spread out on the floor of the fourth ventricle. From the nerve-cells in this grey matter some of the cranial nerves, which take their origin in the medulla, arise. The grey matter of the base of the anterior horn suffers but little displacement, and lies in a column on each side of the sulcus longitudinalis medianus, and from this a motor nerve (the twelfth) arises. The sixth nerve arises in series with the twelfth in the tegmental region of the pons, and the nuclei of the fourth and third nerves continue this motor column of cells brainwards. The grey matter of the base of the posterior horn is dis- placed laterally, so that it underlies the surface markings which have been described above as ala cinerea and tuberculum acusticum, and from this grey matter the sensory parts of the tenth and ninth nerves and part of the eighth nerve arise. Fig. 432. -Transverse Section of the Dbcussatio Lemnisci Medulla in the Eegion of the , (Schwalbe.) FUNICULUS CUNEATUS NUCLEUS OF THE CLAVA EXTERNAL CUNEATE NUCLEUS CUNEATE NUCLEUS ASCENDING ROOT OF V TRIGEMINAL SUBSTANTIA GELATINOSA FORMATIO RETICULARIS NUCLEUS LATERALIS, OLIVARY NUCLEUS SUPERFICIAL ARCIFORM FIBRES ARCIFORM NUCLEUS FUNICULUS GRACILIS POSTERIOR FISSURE NUCLEUS OF SPINAL ACCESSORY CENTRAL CANAL NUCLEUS OF HYPOGLOSSAL decussatio lemnisci \^aC^ accessory olivary NUCLEUS ANTERIOR FISSURE SUPERFICIAL ARCIFORM FIBRES The heads of both of the horns of the grey crescents are also represented in the medulla. At the decussation of the pyramids (fig. 438) large bundles of fibres pass from the lateral columns of the cord to cross over to the opposite side and appear in the anterior column of the medulla, forming the greater part of the pyramids. These bundles of fibres cut through the necks of the anterior horns so as to com- pletely amputate the heads of the horns. A little higher up each head is thrust into a more lateral position by the increased size of the pyramids, and forms the nucleus lateralis and the nucleus ambiguus (fig. 432). The motor nuclei of the por- tion of the eleventh which arises in the medulla, and of the tenth and ninth nerves, are regarded as derivatives from the head of the anterior horn, and the series is continued upwards by the nucleus of the seventh (at the junction of the pons and medulla), and in the pons by the motor nucleus of the trigeminal. A little above the decussation of the pyramids, bundles of fibres, chiefly from the funiculi gracilis and cuneatus, pass forwards and cut through the neck of the posterior horn, and then decussate, forming the sensory or upper pyramidal decussation (decussatio lemnisci). The separated head of the posterior horn (substantia gelatinosa Rolandi) is continued upwards as far as the accessory sensory nucleus of the fifth nerve» This substantia gelatinosa is one of the sensory nuclei of the fifth nerve, and is