THE MUSCLES 304 and the external occipital protuberance ; (2) the posterior border of the ligamentun nuchse ; (8) the spines of the seventh cervical and all the thoracic vertebrse, togethe with the supraspinous ligaments. Insertion. —(1) The posterior border of the outer third of the clavicle and th adjacent part of its upper surface; (2) the inner edge of the upper surface of th acromion process ; (3) the upper border of the spine of the scapula, and a small tubercle at its inner extremity. I Structure.—The origin of the muscle is by short tendinous intermingled wit'j fleshy fibres, except at two places, where the tendinous fibres form a continuouj sheet. The first of these is from the middle of the ligamentum nuchae to the seconi thoracic spine ; here a conspicuous oval aponeurosis is formed by the tendons of thj two sides. The second is at the lower acute angle of the muscle where it arisel from the lowest thoracic vertebra. The muscular fibres converge from the extensi\- origin, and just before their insertion the sheet of the muscle is folded upon itselj to adapt it to the V-shaped process of the shoulder girdle, into which it is insertei by fleshy fibres, except at the inner extremity of the spine of the scapula, wheii a tendinous sheet plays over the triangular base of that process, before it is insertei into the tubercle at the inner end of the spine. Sometimes a bursa intervene between this sheet and the triangular surface of the scapular spine. ^ Nerve-supply.—From the spinal accessory ; and from the deep cervical plexi by branches of the third and fourth cervical nerves, which, after communicatini with the spinal accessory, enter with it the deep surface of the muscle a sho: distance above the clavicle. ! il Action.—Its upper fibres draw upwards the outer end of the clavicle and tH point of the shoulder ; and acting from below, they extend the head, flex the nee! to the same side, and turn the face to the opposite side. Its middle fibres dra the scapula inwards towards the spine ; at the same time they produce a rotaticj of the scapula on the thorax, by which the point of the shoulder is raised. Tl: lower fibres draw the scapula downwards and inwards, and at the same time rota it so as to raise the point of the shoulder. Acting as a whole, the muscle draws the scapula towards the middle line \ the back, and elevates the shoulder by the rotation it impresses upon the shouldel blade. By drawing the scapula backwards, it gives some help to the pectoral minor and other muscles Avhich elevate the ribs in forced inspiration. When takes its fixed point from the shoulder-blade and clavicle, as when the hand gras] firmly some immovable object, the muscle will draw the spines of the vertebi! towards the scapula. The presence of the oval aponeurotic patch may be explained by the fact thj the range of movement of the scapula in a horizontal direction backwards ai inwards is more limited than when the inward movement is combined with i upward or downward direction. This limitation is due to the ligamentous attaa ments of the clavicle and shoulder blade. Relations.—Superficially, the integuments and subcutaneous nerves ; deeply, tl complexus splenii, serratus posticus superior, rhomboidei, the vertebral aponeuros covering the continuations upwards of the erector spin^e, the external intercosta latissimus dor si, levator anguli scapulae, omo-hyoid, scalenus medius and posticij the supraspinatus, and a small portion of the infraspinatus. j Variations.—Occasionally the upper or the lower part of its origin may fail. Tl clavicular part of its insertion sometimes extends far forwards upon the clavicle. quently fibres pass from its anterior border to the inner end of the clavicle either in front | or behind the sterno-mastoid, forming an arch under which run some of the superfic j nerves. This arch may even extend to the sternum. A similar transverse band is occasioi] ally found in the upper part of the posterior triangle, the transversus nuchce. Sometinj a longitudinal band of fibres covers the sj^inal origin of the trapezius. i