391 GASTROCNEMIUS ,his inner portion of the lower part of the anterior annular ligament the tendons )f the extensor proprius hallucis and tibialis anticus are contained in separate synovial sheaths. The external annular ligament passes from the posterior border of the external Irnalleolus to the outer border of the tuberosity of the calcaneum and to the posterior 3art of the junction of the lower and outer surfaces of the calcaneum. It is con- iinuous above with the deep fascia covering the calf muscles and the peronei; md also with the sheet of fascia which separates the two superficial from the two ieeper layers of muscles at the back of the leg. Its deep surface is attached to the iperoneal tubercle on the outer side of the calcaneum. The internal annular ligament extends from the posterior border of the internal Irnalleolus to the inner border of the tuberosity of the calcaneum. It is also continuous above with the deep fascia of the leg and with the sheet of fascia which |intervenes between the soleus and the deeper sheets of muscle at the back of the leg. I MUSCLES OF THE BACK OF THE LEG The muscles in this region are arranged in two layers above, in four below, iThe first layer consists of the gastrocnemius and plantaris. First Layer 1. GASTROCNEMIUS The gastrocnemius—named from 7ao-T>jp=the belly, and KV77/x77=the calf, because- t forms the enlargement of that part of the leg—is double-headed, each head con- sisting of a fusiform muscle, the lower part of which blends with its fellow so as to jform a common tendon of insertion. It forms the femoral origin of the great triceps feurae muscle. I Origin.—Outer head : a well-marked impression upon the upper and posterior i3art of the outer surface of the external condyle and the adjacent part of the posterior surface of the femur just above the external condyle. ( Inner head: an oval impression placed transversely across the posterior ;mrface of the femur above the internal condyle, and reaching inwards to the back bf the adductor tubercle. Insertion.—By the tendo Achillis (so named from the legend that the heel, into jivhich this tendon is inserted, was the only vulnerable part of the hero Achilles) jnto the lower part of the posterior surface of the calcaneum. ! Structure.—The two heads arise by short strong tendons ; that of the inner is the 5tronger and thicker. These tendons converge downwards towards one another, and ire succeeded by large fleshy expansions which unite at the upper part of the niidle third of the leg. Near this point the tendon of insertion begins as an inter- tiiuscular septum between the two bellies of the muscle. This becomes thicker and l^tronger, and expands into a broad aponeurosis which covers the anterior surface of phe united muscle. Just below the middle of the leg the fleshy fibres terminate ipon the back of this aponeurosis in two curves the convexity of which is downwards, ihat of the inner portion of the muscle descending about half an inch lower than the )uter. The strong aponeurosis becomes narrower and at the same time thicker,