loco THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION and pancreatic duct enter (figs. 571, 586, and 587). THE INTESIINES THE SMALL INTESTINE The small intestine is that part of the intestinal canal which lies between the pylorus and the ileo-caecal valve. It is conveniently divided into three portions: the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. It is of the average length in the adult male (between the ages of twenty and fifty) of twenty-two feet six inches. In the female it is longer, the average length being twenty-three feet four inches. The length is independent, in the adult at least, of age, height, or weight. The length may vary in the male from thirty-one feet ten inches to fifteen feet six inches. In the female, from twenty-nine feet four inches to nineteen feet ten inches. With the exception of the duodenum, the small intestine lies for the most part inside the more fixed portions of the large intestine (figs. 565, 578). It is also, with the exception of the duodenum, connected to the posterior abdominal wall by a pro- cess of peritoneum, the mesentery. This broad membrane is seen to extend from above downwards, and from left to right from the end of the duodenum above to the ileo-caecal valve below, enclosing the jejunum and ileum along the whole of their extent (figs. 561, 563, and 599). The duodenum—the first portion of the small intestine—is, unlike the other parts of that bowel, very definite in position and extent. It is that part which is not contained by the mesentery. It is formed from the end of the embryonic fore-gut, and its peculiar position behind the transverse colon is due to the rotation from left to right of the intestine in the foetus (page 1032). It is the most fixed as well as the widest part of the small intestine. It measures one and a half to two inches in diameter, and is about ten inches long. It has been compared in general shape to a horseshoe, though not very aptly, as the one side is so much longer than the other. It is arranged in a curved manner round the pancreas, and readily lends itself to a division into four parts (fig. 577). The first part—the superior, or ascending—is hardly two inches long. Begin- ning at the pylorus, and passing upwards and backwards to the right, it ends at the neck of the gall-bladder. It is the most movable of the four portions. It is covered by the two layers of peritoneum which are continued from the stomach, and by these it is completely surrounded. Above it are found the liver (quadrate lobe) and gall bladder. The . gut itself forms the lower boundary of the foramen of Winslow. Below it is the pancreas; and behind are the common bile-duct and hepatic vessels. The second part—the descending portion—not quite three inches long, extends from the neck of the gall bladder to the second or third lumbar vertebra, a short bend marking the separation between the first and second parts. This part is covered by peritoneum in front only, the membrane being derived from a continuation of the superior layer of the transverse meso-colon (fig. 570). It is more fixed than the first portion. It is in relation in front with the transverse colon and meso-colon. On its left side is the pancreas (fig. 577), and the common bile-duct a little more posteriorly. The loop formed by the pancreatico- duodenal arteries runs also along the left margin of this part of the bowel. Behind lie the right kidney and the renal vessels and vena cava (fig. 590). Some of the muscular fibres of this part of the duodenum are said to be con- tinuous with the lobules of the pancreas. Into this segment of the bowel, at its inner and back part and some four inches from the pylorus the common bile-duct