STEBNO-THYBOID-THYBO-HYOJD Second Layer of Infra-hyotd Musclrs iThis consists of two muscles—the sterno-thyroicl and thyro-hyoid. 1. STERNO-THYROID The sterno-thyroid (figs. 301, 314)—named from its attachment to the sternmn id thyroid cartilages—is flat and ribbon-shaped. Orig-in.—(1) The lower part and side of the back of the manubrium (pre- ernum), from the middle line to the notch for the first rib cartilage ; (2) the back the first rib cartilage, and occasionally that of the second; and (3) occasionally om the back of the clavicle near the facet for the first costal cartilage. Insertion.—The oblique line on the outer surface of the ala of the thyroid ,rtilage. Structure.—Arising fleshy, the two muscles form broad bands of parallel fibres, hich at first lie close to one another, and afterwards diverge slightly as they cend. Finally, they are inserted by short tendinous fibres into the thyroid ,rtilage. Occasionally the muscle is crossed by a tendinous intersection. Nerve-supply.—Branches from the loop between the descendens and the com- unicantes hypoglossi which enter the outer part of the deep surface of the muscle. Action.—(1) To draw down the thyroid cartilage, e.g. after swallowing; (2) in injunction with the thyro-hyoid it will depress the hyoid bone. Relations.—Superficially, the cervical fascia and first piece of the sternum, .6 anterior jugular vein, the sterno-mastoid and sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid uscles ; deeply, the thyroid cartilage, inferior constrictor, the cricoid cartilage, ico-thyroid muscle, thyroid gland, inferior thyroid veins and trachea, the common irotid artery and left innominate vein. Variations—This muscle may be absent, or double ; the muscles of the two sides may ! united. It may send a slip to the carotid sheath. 2. THYRO-HYOID I ' The thyro-hyoid—named from its attachment to the thyroid cartilage and hyoid 'pne—is a quadrilateral sheet. Origin.—The oblique line on the outer surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. i \ Insertion.—The lower border of (1) the outer third of the body of the hyoid me ; and of (2) the inner half of the greater cornu. Structure.—This muscle is a continuation upwards of the preceding muscle, .any of its fibres being derived from those of the sterno-thyroid without any itachment to the cartilage. It consists of parallel fleshy fibres which run nearly ktically upwards to their insertion into the hyoid bone. Nerve-supply.—A special branch of the hypoglossal nerve which enters the deep irface of the muscle near its posterior border. Action.—To draw up the thyroid cartilage, as in swallowing, or in the pro- \ iction of a high note in singing; (2) in association with the sterno-thyroid to Icaw down the hyoid bone. Relations.—Superficially, the sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno-mastoid ; \3eply, the thyro-hyoid membrane, the thyro-hyoid bursa and ala of the thyroid irtilage, the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve. Variations.—SHps are occasionally seen passing from the cricoid cartilage to the hyoid 3ne, or between the upper border of the thyroid cartilage in front and the body of the hyoid one.