THE ABTEBIES 526 Branches of the Second Part of the Internal Maxillary Artery.—The branches of the second portion of the mternal maxillary all supply muscles. They are: (1) The masseteric ; (2) the posterior deep temporal; (3) the internal pterygoid; (4) the external pterygoid ; (5) the buccal ; and (6) the anterior deep temporal. (1) The masseteric branch comes off from the internal maxillary as the latter is passing from between the neck of the jaw and the spheno-mandibular ligament. It is directed outwards along with the masseteric nerve, and, passing through the sigmoid notch in the lower jaw, supplies the masseter muscle. Some filaments perforate the muscle and anastomose with the transverse facial and with the masseteric branches of the facial itself. (2) The posterior deep temporal arises, as a rule, from the internal maxillary in common with the masseteric or a little beyond that branch. It passes upwards beneath the temporal muscle in a slight groove on the anterior margin of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, supplying the temporal muscle, the pericranium, and the external layer of the bone. It anastomoses with the anterior deep temporal and the other temporal arteries. (3) The internal pterygoid branches are short trunks which pass into and supply the internal pterygoid muscle. (4) The external pterygoid branches supply the external pterygoid muscle, and, like the internal pterygoid branches, are short trunks, and very irregular in their number, origin, and distribution. (5) The buccal branch (fig. 336) courses forwards and downwards with the buccal nerve to the buccinator muscle, lying in close contact with the inner side and anterior margin of the tendon of the temporal muscle and coronoid process of the lower jaw. It supplies the buccinator muscle and mucous membrane of the mouth, and anastomoses with the facial, transverse facial, and infraorbital | arteries. (6) The anterior deep temporal branch ascends beneath the temporal muscle j in a slight groove on the greater wing of the sphenoid bone. It supplies the I muscle, pericranium, and subjacent bone, and gives off small branches which | pass through minute foramina in the malar bone. Some of these last branches! enter the orbit and anastomose with the lachrymal artery; others emerge on the face and anastomose with the transverse facial artery. Branches of the Third Part of the hiternal Maxillary Artery.—The branches of the third part of the internal maxillary artery, like those of the first part, all- pass through bony canals. They are the following :—(1) The posterior dental, oi alveolar ; (2) the infraorbital; (3) the posterior, or descending palatine; (4) the | Vidian ; (5) the pterygo-palatine ; and (6) the naso-palatine, or spheno-palatine, j (1) The posterior dental or alveolar branch arises from the internal maxillar} | as the latter is passing into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and descends in a tor j tuous manner in a groove on the back of the body of the maxilla. It gives of the following branches :—{a) Antral, which pass through small foramina into th( antrum; {h) dental, which pass into bony canals to supply the molar and bicuspic teeth; (c) alveolar, or gingival, which supply the gums ; and {d) buccal, whict j are distributed to the buccinator muscle. j (2) The infraorbital branch arises from the internal maxillary, generally aii a common trunk with the posterior dental. It passes forwards and a little upward; | through the spheno-maxillary fossa ; then forwards in company with the maxillar { division of the fifth nerve, first along the groove, and then through the canal ii; the orbital plate of the maxilla ; and finally, emerging on the face at the infra orbital foramen, under cover of the levator labii superioris proprius, is distributee i to the structures forming the upper lip, the lower eyelid, the lachrymal sac, and tbi I side of the nose. It anastomoses with the inferior coronary and angular branchel l of the facial, with the nasal and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic, and withthi