THE ARTICULATIONS 266 inward rotation is limited by the ilio-femoral ligament; and in flexion by the ischio-femoral ligament, and the portion of the capsule between it and the ilio- femoral band. The ilio-femoral band also prevents the tendency of the trunk to roll backwards on the thigh bones in the erect posture, and so does away with the necessity for muscular power for this purpose ; it is put on stretch in the stand-at-ease j position. I The ligamentum teres is of but very little use in resisting violence or giving j strength to the joint. It assists in checking rotation outwards and adduction Fig. 244.—Ligamentum Teres, drawn tight in Flexion combined with EOTATION outwards AND ADDUCTION. during flexion. A ligament can only be of use when it is tight, and it was found by trephining the bottom of the acetabulum, removing the fat, and threading a piece of whipcord round the ligament, that the ligament was slack in simple flexion, and very slack in complete extension, but that its most slack condition was in abduction. It is tightest in flexion combined with adduction and rotation outwards, and almost as tight in flexion with outward rotation alone, and in flexion with adduction alone (figs. 242 to 244). 2. THE KNEE JOINT Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus. The knee is the largest joint in the body. It is rightly described as a gingiy- moid joint, but there is also an arthrodial element; for, in addition to flexion and extension, there is a sliding backwards and forwardsJof the tibia upon the femoral condyles, as well as slight rotation round a vertical axis. It is one of the most superficial, and, as far as adaptation of the bony surfaces goes, one of the weakest joints, for in no position are the bones in more than partial contact. Its strength hes in the number, size, and arrangement of the ligaments, and the powerful muscles and fascial expansions which pass over the articulation and enable it to withstand the leverage of the two longest bones in the body. It may be said to