THE VEINS Just before its termination it receives the suj^raorbital vein. The transverse nasal vein usually receives the dorsal veins of the nose. The supraorbital vein begins over the frontal eminences by intercommunications with the anterior branch of the superficial ternijoral vein. It receives tiibutaries from the forehead and eyebrow, and, running obliquely downwards and inwards, opens into the termination of the frontal vein. It communicates ^Yiih. the ophthalmic vein, and receives the frontal vein of the flijjloe as the latter vein issues from the bone at the bottom of the supraorbital notch. (2) The angular vein, the continuation of the frontal vein downwards, extends from the junction of the frontal and supraorbital veins a little below the level of the eyebrow, to the level of the lower margin of the orbit, where it becomes the facial vein. In this short course it skirts round the inner margin of the orbit, lying with the angular aitbry on the nasal process of the superior maxillar}- bone a little internal to the lachr\'mal sac. Branches j>ass from the posterior part of the angular vein into the orbit to join the ophthalmic. The angular, the facial, and the ophthalmic veins contain no valves. The blood, therefore, can pass either forward from the oj^hthalmic into the angular, or backwards through the facial and angular into the ophthalmic, and so on to the cavernous and other venous sinuses of the cranium. Hence in certain tumours in the orbit and cranium, the congestion of the angular and facial veins; and the danger in facial carbuncle and anthrax of septic thrombi sj)reafling backwards through the angular and ox^hthalrnic veins to the cranial sinuses. Tributaries.—The superior lateral nasal; and (b) the palpebral veins. (a) The superior lateral nasal veins ascend from the ala and the side of the nose to join the inner side of the angular vein ffig. 38oj. (b) The palpebral veins proceed from the upper and lower eyelids, and open into the outer side of the angirlar vein, either separately or by a common trunk. Several branches of the inferior palpebral vein open into the facial vein ffig. 38oj. (fj) The facial vein, the continuation of the angular, begins at the lower margin of the orbit, and, crossing the face obliquely downwards and outwards, passes at the anterior edge of the rnasseter muscle over the body of the lower jaw, and thence j do^^Tiwards and backwards across the digastric and superior carotid triangles to join j the internal jugular vein about the level of the hyoid bone. It runs in a more or ] less flirect line behind its corresponding arteiy, the facial, which itself pursues . a tortuous course. It usually passes beneath the zygomatic muscles and beneath the idatysrna, but above the other muscles. At the anterior edge of the masseter it joins the facial artery, Ijdng immediately posterior to it. In the neck it lies | beneath the platysrna and cer\-ical fascia, and is usually separated from the facial artery by the submaxillary gland and the stylo-hyoid, and the posterior belly of the digastricus muscles, below which it frequently receives a communicating branch from the external jugular vein. That portion of the vein from the spot where it receives the communicating branch to its termination in the internal jugular is sometimes called the common facial vein; and the communicating branch, the anterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein. fSee Tempoko-maxillary Vein, page (jrjyj.j Tributaries.—It receives on its inner side, from above downwards:—(a) The inferior lateral nasal veins; (b) the superior labial vein; (c) the inferior labial veins; (d) tlie submental vein; (e) the subrrjaxillary veins. On its outer side :—faj the inferior j-jalpebral veins ; (h) the anterior internal maxillary vein ; (c) the buccal vein ; (d) the anterior parotid vein ; (e) the masseteric vein ; and (f) the inferior palatine vein. Communications.—It communicates with the infraorbital vein, the pterygoid plexus of veins, the anterior jugular vein, and the external jugular vein. Tributaries on the Inner Side.—ia) The inferior lateral nasal vein is a small