595 BENAL -S UPBABENAL—SPEBMA TIC ! the kidneys then being also below their usual situation. (C) There may be several renal arteries on each side, or the renal artery may divide close to its origin into several branches. I (D) The renal artery on one or both sides may arise from the bifurcation of the aorta, from I the common iliac, the internal iliac, the inferior mesenteric, or the middle sacral artery. (E) The right artery may cross in front of, instead of behind, the vena cava. (F) The branches of the renal artery may perforate the substance of the kidney instead of entering at the hilum. (G) The renal artery may give origin to branches normally derived from other vessels, as the phrenic, the hepatic or its right branch from the right renal, the middle suprarenal, some of the colic arteries, the spermatic, one or more of the lumbar arteries, or the greater pancreatic artery. (H) Accessory renal arteries, varying in size and generally ' derived from the aorta, are common. They may enter the kidney at almost any part of the organ. THE SUPEARENAL ARTERIES The suprarenal arteries are derived from three sources, and are named as follows:—(1) Superior suprarenal; (2) middle suprarenal; and (3) inferior supra- ! renal. (1) The superior suprarenals, one on each side, are usually derived from the I phrenics, and descend to the suprarenal bodies. ! (2) The middle suprarenals, or suprarenals proper, come off one on each side ! from the aorta, just above the first lumbar artery, and pass transversely outwards to the suprarenal bodies, across the crura of the diaphragm a little above the renal , arteries. In the foetus they equal the renals in size. In the adult they are much i smaller. (3) The inferior suprarenals are branches of the renals. They ascend, one on each side, to the suprarenal bodies, i The suprarenal veins, usually one on each side, terminate as a rule on the left I side in the left renal; on the right side, in the inferior vena cava. The distribution of the suprarenal vessels within the suprarenal capsules is described in the anatomy of those organs. THE SPERMATIC ARTERIES ' The spermatic arteries come off from the front of the abdominal aorta. They I diverge from each other as they descend over the aorta and psoas muscle to the deep or internal abdominal ring, where they are joined by the vas deferens, and, passing with it through the inguinal canal and out of the external or superficial I abdominal ring, run downwards into the scrotum in a tortuous course to the testicle. I They terminate in branches to the epididymis and body of that organ. Within : the abdomen they lie beneath the peritoneum, and cross in their descent over the [ ureter and distal end of the external iliac artery; the right being superficial to I the vena cava, and behind the termination of the ileum; and the left beneath ! the sigmoid flexure of the colon. In the inguinal canal and in the scrotum the \ spermatic veins lie in front of the artery, and the vas deferens lies behind it. In the foetus these vessels pass transversely outwards to the testicle, which in I early foetal life lies in the loin in front of the kidney ; but as the testicles descend to the scrotum, the vessels become elongated, and are drawn with the testicle into the scrotum. I The spermatic arteries give off the following branches :—(1) Uretal; (2) cre- I masteric; (3) epididymal; and (4) testicular. [ (1) The uretal are small branches given off to the ureter as the spermatic artery I crosses it. They anastomose with the other uretal branches derived from the I renal, common iliac, and vesical arteries. j (2) The cremasteric are small branches given off to the cremaster muscle ; they I anastomose with the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric. QQ2