SECTION III. THE MUSCLES By J. N. C. DAVIES-COLLEY, M.A., M.C.Cantab., F.R.C.S. SURGEOX TO A^■D LECTtTRER OIV SURGERY AT GUy'S HOSPITAL; EXAMINER IN ANATOMY FOR THE COXJOIXT BOARD; LATE EXAMINER IN THTi UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE THE Muscles consist chiefly of transversely striated fibres arranged in fasciculi or bundles of various sizes ; and also of white fibrous tissue, which forms the flattened cords or sheets, the tendons and aponeuroses, as they are called, by which most of the muscles at one or both ends are attached to the bones or cartilages with which they are connected. In the account of each individual muscle, it is convenient to divide the descrip- ! tion into seven heads, viz.:—1. the name ; 2. the shape ; 3. the attachments; : 4. the structure; 5. the nerve-supply ; 6. the action ; and 7. the relations. A short account also of the more important variations will be added. i 1. The name is given for various causes, and frequently when it consists of more than one word, for two or even three causes, viz.: (a) the supposed action, e.g. adductor and sartorius ; {b) the shape, e.g. triangularis and lumbricalis ; (c) the direction, e.g. rectus (straight), obliquus (slanting); {d} the position, e.g. sublimis (near the surface), profundus (far from it), gluteus (in connection with the nates); j (e) its divisions and complexity, e.g. biceps, triceps, multifidus ; (/) its size, as magnus, minimus, &c. ; (g) its attachments, e.g. sterno-cleido-mastoideus. : 2. The shape is som.etimes difficult to define on account of the irregularity of ; the outline, and curvature of the surfaces of the muscle. Some are narrow and | of a flattened cylindrical form, which may be designated ribbon-shaped. Many of these are diminished at their extremities, and may be called fusiform or spindle- shaped. Others are broad, and form sheets of various thicknesses, which, according ! to their outline, may be described as fan-shaped, rhomboidal, triangular, or quadri- ^ lateral. Many, again, are compound muscles with double or multiple origins or insertions, which are called, from this cause, bicipital, trifid, &c. This is often the case when a strong muscle arises from many points of bone, or when a muscle i divides into many tendons below to move several small levers, such as the bones of the j fingers and toes. A few have tendons intercalated in their length, and are called | biventral or digastric muscles. It is in some cases difficult to comprehend why certain muscles, on the one hand, which appear to be separate, are grouped under | one name as a compound muscle ; and, on the other hand, muscles which might very well be combined are distinguished by separate names. The principle of dis- tinction appears to have been to group muscles which combine to form one belly, and to separate those in which the tendons alone are united. ! 3. Of the attachments, the more fixed end of the muscle is usually called the i origin, the more movable the insertion. In enumerating the various points of