OLFACTORY NEBVES 789 elevation which is placed in the front part of the anterior perforated space ; from thence it passes into the anterior commissure. The internal root passes backwards and inwards, and then bends upwards to end in the anterior extremity of the gyrus fornicatus. According to Obersteiner, ' no white mesial root, as commonly described, is to be seen ; nor does a middle grey root, in the common meaning of the term, exist.' The following is an outline of the cerebral part of the course of the olfactory fi"bres. On entering the olfactory bulb, they suffer an interruption in the nerve- cells of that body, these cells apparently corresponding to the nucleus of origin of an ordinary cranial nerve. From thence the fibres enter the white matter of the olfactory tract and may be here classified into two groups, namely :—(a) Fibres which enter the cortex of the tract; and {b) fibres which pass through the white Fig. 442.—Nerves of the Nasal Cavity^ NASAL OLFACTORY FRONTAL SINUS NERVE NERVE OLFACTORY NKllVE TO SUPE- RJoR TURBINATE I'.nNE SPHENOIDAL SINUS VIDIAN NERVE MECKEUS GANGLION DES( ENDING I'A LA TINE ORIFICE OF EUSTACHIAN TUBE NASAL BRANCHES, Ji _ I'USTERIOR PA LA TINE ANTERIOR PALATINE MIDDLE PALATINE matter to other parts of the brain without becoming connected to the cortex of the tract, {a) From the cortex of the tract some fibres pass via the external white root to the cortex of the temporal lobe. Others enter the anterior commissure, and proceed to the cerebral cortex of the opposite side. (6) Of the fibres which pass directly through the tract, some pass by the external white root to the temporal lobe ; others pass as a slender tract into the under border of the internal capsule, and so reach the front of the optic thalamus (Obersteiner). A commissural bundle of fibres, which passes from one olfactory tract to its fellow of the opposite side, via the anterior commissure, is also described. In its peripheral distribution, the olfactory nerve does not extend beyond the limits of the mucous membrane which invests the ethmoid bone. The olfactory filaments are composed exclusively of non-meduUated fibres, and to this their pearly grey colour is due. As they pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate, they are invested by sheaths derived from the dura mater.