691 DEEP LYMPHATICS OF HEAD AND NECK 2. The vertical set of superficial glands of the neck—four to six in number, known as the superficial cervical chain—are situated chiefly in the posterior triangle of the neck, along the course of the external jugular vein, between the platysma and the deep fascia. Small superficial glands are also found in the front of the neck between the hyoid bone and the sternum, and posteriorly over the trapezius muscle. I The superficial cervical glands receive the vessels from the occipital glands, and from the posterior auricular glands, and part of those from the parotid and submaxillary glands. They also receive the lymphatics from the integuments of I the neck and from the external ear. Their efferent vessels open into the deep chain of cervical glands. II. THE DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE HEAD AND NECK A. The Deep Lymphatic Vessels of the Head and Neck The deep lymphatic vessels of the head and neck may be divided into the lymphatics of the cranium, the orbit, the temporal and zygomatic fossa9, the nose, the mouth and tongue, the pharynx, the larynx, the upper part of the oesophagus and trachea, and the thyroid body. They roughly follow the course of the deep arteries, and terminate in the deep cervical chain of lymphatic glands which accom- pany the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein. 1. The lymphatics from the interior of the cranium are divided into the •meningeal and the cerebral. The meningeal accompany the meningeal arteries •through the various foramina in the base of the skull, and terminate in the deep cervical chain. The cerebral lymphatics pass in like manner with the cerebral vessels (the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, and the internal jugular vein), through the corresponding foramina in the base of the skull, and join the deep lymphatic chain. The origin of the cerebral lymphatics and the •lymphatics from the choroid plexus are described in the Anatomy of the Bkain (page 717). 2. The lymphatics of the orbit pass with the infraorbital vein into the spheno- maxillary fossa, and thence with the internal maxillary vein into the internal maxillary and deep parotid glands. (For description of the lymphatics of the eyeball, see page 889.) 3. The lymphatics from the temporal and zygomatic fossae run with the arteries in these situations, and, after passing through the internal maxillary glands, I join the deep cervical chain. 4. The lymphatics from the interior of the nose accompany the arteries supplying that cavity, and terminate, in part in the lymphatics of the pharynx, but chiefly in the deep cervical chain. They communicate, through the lymphatic spaces which surround the olfactory nerves, with the subdural and subarachnoid lymph-spaces of the cranium. 5. The lymphatics of the mouth and tongue.—The lymphatics from the floor j of the mouth pass through the mylo-hyoid muscle into the submaxillary lymphatic I glands. The lymphatics of the lips pass with the superficial lymphatics, partly into the submaxillary glands, and partly into the deep cervical chain. The ^ lymphatics of the deep surface of the cheek and of the roof of the mouth join the internal maxillary lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the tongue run back- wards with the ranine vein, and, after passing through several small lingual glands ! on the hyo-glossus muscle, join the deep cervical chain. The lymphatics of the front part of the tongue pass with the lymphatics of the floor of the mouth, ' through the mylo-hyoidean muscles into the submaxillary glands. Y Y 2