THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 818 (c) The hypoglossal furnishes two or three fine filaments to the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus. These filaments are given off by the hypoglossal as it winds round the ganglion. (d) Two or three twigs from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic join the ganglion of the trunk. Lower down the branches of distribution of the vagus communicate extensively with the sympathetic. (e) A twig passes from the loop formed by the anterior primary divisions of the upper two spinal nerves to the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus. This communi- cation is not constant. (2) Branches of distribution.—These are {a) the meningeal; (6) auricular; > (c) pharyngeal; {d} superior laryngeal; (e) inferior laryngeal; (/) cardiac; ' {g) pulmonary; (h) oesophageal; and (i) abdominal branches. i {a) The meningeal or recurrent branch is a slender filament which is given off | from the ganglion of the root. It takes a recurrent course through the jugular | foramen, and is distributed to the dura mater around the lateral sinus. | (b) The auricular branch, or nerve of Arnold, arises from the jugular fossa. | It traverses the bone, passing to the inner side of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and | emerges behind the pinna, where it divides into two branches, one of which joins : the posterior auricular branch of the facial while the other supplies the posterior and inferior part of the external auditory meatus and the back of the pinna. j (c) The pharyngeal branches may be two or three in number. The principal of ■ these joins the pharyngeal branch of the glosso-pharyngeal in front of the internal i carotid artery, and passes with the latter behind the external carotid artery down- !i wards and inwards to reach the posterior aspect of the pharynx. Here the two I nerves are joined by branches from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, | and form, with the latter, the pharyngeal plexus. (d) The superior laryngeal nerve arises from the lower part of the ganglion of 1 the trunk, and passes obliquely downwards and inwards behind both internal and ' external carotid arteries towards the larynx. In this course it describes a curve ; with the convexity downwards and outwards, and divides into (i) a larger internal j and (ii) a smaller external branch. ! (i) The internal branch accompanies the superior laryngeal artery to the interval between the upper border of the thyroid cartilage and the great cornu of the hyoidi j bone. It passes under cover of the thyro-hyoid muscle and pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane to gain the interior of the larynx ; here it divides into a number oi ] diverging branches. The ascending branches supply the mucous membrane on j both surfaces of the epiglottis. The descending branches ramify in the mucous i - membrane lining the larynx, communicate with the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and | supply the mucous membrane which covers the back of the cricoid cartilage. | (ii) The external laryngeal branch runs downwards towards the lower border of j the thyroid cartilage. It pierces the lower fibres of the inferior constrictor of the j pharynx, and ends for the most part in the crico-thyroid muscle. A few filaments pierce the crico-thyroid membrane, and are distributed to the lining membrane of the larynx. It gives off a cardiac branch which joins one of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic ; it also furnishes twigs to the inferior constrictor and com- I municating twigs to the pharyngeal plexus. • (e) The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve of the right side arises at the root | of the neck in front of the first stage of the right subclavian artery. It hooks round | the artery, passing below and then behind that vessel, and runs upwards and slightly | inwards, crossing obliquely behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries. | Having gained the side of the trachea, it runs upwards in the groove between that j canal and the oesophagus, and enters the larynx by passing under cover of the lower | border of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. It then breaks up into branches, • which are distributed to all the intrinsic muscles of the pharynx with the exception j