INTEBCOSTAL NEBVES 843 average condition:—The radial nerve extends to the base of the thumb nail, to the distal ' interphalangeal joint of the iiidex, and not quite to the proximal interphalangeal joint of the middle finger, and sends a fine twig in some cases to the skin covering the meta- I phalangeal articulation of the ring finger. The ulnar nerve extends to the nail of the little finger, to the distal interphalangeal joint of the ring, and in some cases to the integument covering the proximal interphalangeal jomt of the middle, and the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the index finger. The distal parts of the dorsum of the fingers are supplied by twigs from the palmar collateral branches of the median and ulnar, almost the whole of the middle finger being supplied in this way, and the other digits to a less degree. The matrix of the thumb nail is supplied by twigs from the palmar branches of the median. A' considerable part of the dorsum of the hand is usually supplied by twigs from both the radial and the ulnar nerves, as these nerves overlap one another in then" distribution (fig. 459). Occasionally two other nerves, the musculo-cutaneous and the lower external • cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, take part in the supply of the back of the hand. THORACIC NERVES The smaller part of the first thoracic nerve and the second to the eleventh thoracic nerves follow the contour of the body wall in the intervals between the ribs, and are therefore termed intercostal nerves. The twelfth thoracic nerve pursues a parallel course to the others, below the tw^elfth rib. Each of the intercostal nerves is accompanied by an intercostal artery and vein. These vessels are placed, immediately above the nerve, in the groove at the lower border of the rib. The twelfth thoracic nerve is accompanied by the first kmibar artery. Each thoracic nerve is joined, near the head of the rib, by two rami communicantes from the gangiiated cord of the sympathetic. The first and last thoracic nerves require separate description. The remaining ten nerves fall naturally into an upper and a lower group. The members of the upper group (the second to the sixth) run between the ribs as far as the margin of the sternum. The members of the lower group (seventh to eleventh nerves) lie for a part of their course between the layers of the abdominal w^all, the extent of the abdominal distribution increasing from the highest to the lowest member of the series. A. First thoracic nerve.—The greater part of the first thoracic nerve crosses the neck of the first rib to join the brachial plexus, as already described. The smaller part, about one-fifth of the entire nerve, runs for about two inches in contact with r^fthe under surface of the first rib between the bone and the pleura, and then enters I the cellular interval between the external and internal intercostal muscles. For the remainder of its course it corresponds to the upper intercostal nerves in its distri- bution, but it does not usually give a lateral or an anterior cutaneous branch. Variety.—In some cases a lateral cutaneous nerve arises from the first intercostal nerve, ilt may be of small size, but is sometimes as large as an ordinary intercosto-humeral nerve. It communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve and with the nerve of Wrisberg. B. Upper intercostal nerves.—The second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth inter- icostal nerves, after receiving communications from the sympathetic, are directed outwards in the intercostal spaces in front of the posterior intercostal membrane, between that membrane and the pleura. They then enter the interval between the |3xternal and internal intercostal muscles, and follow the curve of the thoracic wall between these muscles as far as the mid-axillary line, and then, taking a deeper position, they run through the fibres of the internal intercostals as far as the junction 3f the bony parts of the ribs with their cartilages. They then pass forwards on the ieep surface of the internal intercostal muscles, lying on the pleura and on the slips of Ijhe triangularis sterni, and cross in front of the internal mammary vessels. Lastly, 'jhey bend forwards and pierce the internal intercostals and pectoralis major, and