SPINAL NEBVES 823 cervical nerves are placed on the laminae of the atlas and axis. The ganglia of the sacral and coccygeal nerves are placed within the spinal canal. Each spinal ganglion is an ovoid greyish body, the long axis of which corresponds to the axis of the nerve with which it is incorporated. It is somewhat adherent to its meningeal sheath. The roots of the first spinal nerve ascend slightly to reach the interval between the atlas and the occipital bone. The second and third nerves pass horizontally outwards, the fourth passes obliquely downwards and outwards, and the remaining nerves pass out with increasing degrees of obliquity, the intraspinal course of the nerve-roots increasing in length as the series is followed downwards. It follows from the above statement that the lower nerve-roots are directed almost vertically downwards, and as the spinal cord ends at the level of the second lumbar vertebra, while the series of intervertebral foramina is continued to the lower end of the sacrum, the nerve-roots passing within the vertebral canal beyond the cord form a great sheaf of fibres, the cauda equina (fig. 437). The distance of the points of emergence (superficial origins) of certain of the nerves from the corresponding intervertebral foramina is given in the following table. This table gives the measure- ments made by Testut in a subject of eighteen years. The length of the spinal cord was in this case forty-one centimetres. Third pair of cervical nerves Fifth First „ thoracic Fifth „ „ „ . Tenth „ ,, ,, . Twelfth „ „ „ . First „ lumbar „ . Second ,, ,, „ . Third „ „ „ . Fourth ,, „ ,, . Fifth „ „ „ . Fn^st ,, sacral ,, . Fifth „ „ „ . Each spinal nerve, as it enters the intervertebral foramen, is enclosed in a strong tubular sheath formed by the dura mater. This sheath is at first divided by a partition into two compartments, one for the anterior and the other for the posterior root. The septum soon disappears and allows the posterior and anterior roots to inter- mingle their fibres. Immediately beyond the ganglion on the posterior root the sheath thins away into the epineurium and perineurium of the nerve. The arach- noid and pia mater also send tubular processes around the nerves; these become continuous with the perineurium, and a connection is thus established between the lymph spaces around the nerves and the subdural and subarachnoid spaces. Topography.—The relation of the superficial origins of the spinal nerves to the spinous processes of the vertebrae has been investigated by Nuhn, and more recently by Reid. In the following table, which is given by the latter anatomist, A signi- fies the highest point of origin ; B the lowest point of origin ; it gives the extreme limits of origin as observed in six subjects. For example, the origin of the sixth thoracic nerve may extend as high as the lower border of the spine of the second thoracic vertebra, or as low as the upper border of the spine of the fifth, but it does not necessarily extend either as high or as low as the points indicated. Nerves Second cervical. (A) A little above the posterior arch of atlas. (B) Midway between posterior arch of atlas and spine of axis. Third „ (A) A little below posterior arch of atlas. (B) Junction of upper two-thirds and lower third of spme of axis. Fourth „ (A) Just below upper border of spine of axis. (B) Middle of spine of third cervical vertebra. Bight side Left side mm. mm. . 18 17 . 25 25 . 33 32 . 47 47 . 68 68 . Ill 110 . 114 114 . 138 134 . 151 151 . 163 164 . 181 180 . 188 188 . 280 280