1064 THE MALE BEPBODUCTIVE OEGANS \ i hernia with its sac may pass within it or invaginate it, and a surgeon called upor to operate in such a case would probably open the tunica vaginalis before reaching the peritoneal sac, and thus meet with three layers of serous membrane befor< exposing the extruded intestine. A hernia of this kind is called' infantile.' Cystiij tumours may be formed by the distension of small unobliterated segments of tbj funicular portion of the tube, and are called encysted hydroceles of the cord. | Structure (fig. 623).—The testicle proper consists of a tubular parenchymjj enclosed within a strong fibrous tunic, the tunica albuginea. i The tunica albuginea (figs. 621, 623) is a dense white inelastic capsule of abou; one-sixteenth of an inch in thickness in the greater part of its extent, but reachingj two or three times this admeasurement beneath the epididymis. It is perforated a' its upper and back part by the efferent seminal tubes which go to form the giobuij major of the epididymis, and from its inner surface pass a number of sustentacula;} processes, one of large size called the mediastinum testis or corpus Highmorianum j and a multitude of others in the form of thread-like fibro-muscular filaments an(| delicate septal planes of connective tissue, the trabeculae. The mediastinum extend; forwards from the upper half of the posterior border, occupying about a fourth o' Fig. 623.—Diagram of the Testicular Tubules. the sagittal and a third of the transverse diameter of the interior, and is tunnellet by blood-vessels and a network of seminal tubes (the rete testis). The trabeculsj radiate from the deep aspect of the mediastinum to the inner surface of th| tunica albuginea and subdivide the interior of the capsule into a number of locu] (150-200). \ Within these loculi lie the testicular tubules, supported by a fine retifornj connective tissue which becomes condensed into a highly vascular lamina calle< iliQ tunica vasculosa where it is in contact with the albuginea. The prope secreting substance consists of fine branching canals, the tubuli seminiferi, abou i^th of an inch in diameter, and lined with a layer of cubical cells in which ar developed the spermatic filaments or spermatozoa. The tubules are collected int< little bundles, called lobules, about three hundred in number, each comprising tw< or more separate tubes. These by their union form larger tubes, or tubuli recti which converge towards the mediastinum, and on entering it break up into a plexus the rete testis ; from the rete in turn spring twelve to twenty efferent tubes, or vast j efferentia, twice or three times as large as the tubules, and these, piercing th( upper and back part of the albuginea, end in the head of the epididymis (fig. 623).