THE LABYNX 943 The CUNEIFORM CARTILAGES, or cartilages of Wrisberg, are placed within ;he aryteno-epigiottidean folds. These small conical and elongated yellow elastic jartilages produce the thickenings just mentioned in front of the cornicula. Calcification.—^The hyaline cartilages of the larynx are especially prone to calcify ifter middle life, but the yellow elastic cartilages take no share in the process. The little cartilago triticea, however, is frequently converted into bone. I In the thyroid cartilage the deposit of bony salts usually commences near the posterior border and in the cornua, extending forwards into the lower part of the ilia, and finally upwards, until in advanced cases the whole cartilage is involved. In the cricoid cartilage the calcification commences above on each side in the leighbourhood of the crico-arytenoid joints, and extends downwards, and finally )oth forwards and backwards. In the arytenoid the calcification commences in the base, but it finally involves he whole cartilage with the exception of the summit, where the hyaline structure (as dready noted) disappears. The ligaments (extrinsic).—The thyro-hyoid membrane is composed mainly if elastic fibres. It is attached below to the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, ;nd above to the upper and hinder margin of the hyoid bone. It presents a thick Fig. 527.—Superior View of the Cartilages of the Larynx. ANTERIOR SURFACE OF CRICOID CARTILAGE True vocal eliord. Crico-thyroid membrane CRICOID CARTILAGE VOCAL PROCESS ANTERIOR SURFACE OF ARYTENOID CARTILAGE ^ INFERIOR CORNU OF—^ THYROID CARTILAGE SUPERIOR CORNU OF, THYROID CARTILAGE POSTERIOR SURFACE OF ARYTENOID CARTILAGE Anterior portion of crico-thyroid membrane Cut edge of erico-tliyroid membrane SUPERIOR BORDER OF THYROID CARTILAGE CRICO-THYROID < ARTICULATION SUPERIOR BORDER OF CRICOID CARTILAGE CORNICULUM LARYNGIS POSTERIOR SURFACE OF CRICOID CARTILAGE antral portion (stretching between the median notch and the body of the hyoid bone), nd thinner lateral portions, looser in texture, which are pierced by the superior iryngeal nerves and arteries. Posteriorly, the membrane is loosely connected with tie superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage, and above these it is bounded on each ide by thickened bands, the thyro-hyoid ligaments, which pass between their tips nd the greater cornua of the hyoid bone. A little grain-like cartilage (cartilago triticea) is usually imbedded in this band ust above the thyroid cornu. I The central portion of the membrane is mainly subcutaneous, a bursa inter- ening where it is overhung by the body of the hyoid bone. Its lateral portions are covered by the thyro-hyoid muscles. Posteriorly it is sparated from the epiglottis by the mucous membrane at the base of the tongue -nd the areolar fatty tissue already described. The crico-thyroid membrane (intrinsic) is composed chiefly of elastic tissue, t presents a prominent rounded median portion overlapped slightly by the crico- hyroid muscles, but between these muscles it is subcutaneous. It is crossed by a mall anastomotic arch formed by the crico-thyroid twigs of the superior laryngeal rtery; one or two small holes transmit vessels from the arch to the interior of the irynx.