457 TENSOB TABSI—COBRUGATOB SUPEBCILII 2. TENSOR TARSI The tensor tarsi—named from its supposed action upon the tarsus—is a small {muscle composed of two flat slips, which are closely connected with the preceding [muscle. Origin.—The crest of the lachrymal bone. Insertion.—The posterior aspect of the inner end of the tarsi. I Structure.—Arising as a thin muscular sheet, at the back of, and in close contact fwith, the outer surface of the lachrymal sac, the muscle divides into two slips which run behind the canahcuH, and are inserted into the edge of the eyehds near the ipuncta lachrymalia. Nerve-supply.—From the infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, by small slips which enter the muscle near its lower border. ! Fig. 310.—The Tensor Tarsi and Corrugator Supercilii. Orbicularis palpebrarum ^kJll Tensor tars -77 Corrugator supercilii Obliquus superior If], Obliquus inferior Action.—To compress the lachrymal sac by drawing inw^ards and backwards the uter part of the tendo oculi and the inner ends of the tarsi. Relations.—Internally and in front, the lachrymal sac ; externally and behind, ;he orbital fat from w^hich it is separated by the capsule of Tenon. .3. CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII The corrugator supercilii—named from its action, the wTinkling of the brow— s a short ribbon-shaped muscle. Origin.—The inner extremity of the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin at the middle of the eyebrow. Structure.—A small wisp of fleshy fibres, closely connected with the orbital ortion of the orbicularis palpebrarum. It passes outwards, and at the same time lightly upwards and forwards, to the under surface of this muscle, and, diverging lightly, its fibres pass between those of the orbicularis and frontalis to their nsertion in the skin. Nerve-supply.—The temporal branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, 'hich enters its deep surface from the outer side. Action.—To draw the middle of the eyebrow inwards and slightly downwards. the adult this causes vertical wrinkles to form between the eyebrows, and gives frowning aspect to the face, as when a difficulty occurs either in thought or action, u the crying infant, the effect of its contraction is to cause dimples about the