THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION 964 It may be mapped out on the chest wall in the following manner : a line drai across the sternmn about the level of the third costal cartilages, half an inch the right and one inch to the left, will indicate the position of its base, from whi the great vessels arise. The apex, as before observed, strikes the chest wall between the fifth and sij rib cartilages on the left side, at a spot about a couple of inches below the nipp and one inch to its sternal side. The lower border is formed by the right ventricle and rests on the cent tendon of the diaphragm. It is defined by a line curving downwards, commencij; Fig. 546. Anterior View of the Heart with the Larger Vessels. j (By permission. Musemu of the Eoyal College of Surgeons.) Left common carotid artery internal jugular vein Right superior thyroid vein Left superior \ thyroid vein Right common carotid artery Internal jugular vein Vertebral vein Subclavian vein Inferior thyroid veins Vena azygos major Vena cava superior Right pulmonary artery PERICARDIUM RIGHT AURICLE RIGHT VENTRICLE Vena cava inferior Left vertebral vein External jugular Left subclavian veii\ Left innominate vt Left superior intercostal vein DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS Left pulmonary artery and vein LEFT AURICULAR APPEND Pulmonary artery LEFT VENTRICLE Aorta at the apex, and crossing close to the sterno-xiphoid articulation and terminati at the right edge of the sternum near its junction with the sixth cartilage. The lateral borders may be completed by drawing curved lines upwards frc j the points last named to the ends of the basal line. The right border consiKj entirely of the right auricle, and the left of the left ventricle. ' Size and weight.—In the adult the heart measures about five inches from ba to apex, three and a half inches across where it is broadest, and two and a half its thickest portion. In the male its weight averages about eleven ounces, and the female about nine ounces. It increases both in size and weight up to advanc life, the increase being most marked up to the age of twenty-nine years.