489 ABNOBMAL MUSCLES lediate tendon. It arises from the clavicle, anterior to the attachment of the rhomboid gament and from the ligament itself. It is inserted into a corresponding- position on the opposite clavicle, and fills up the gap etween the sternal ends of the clavicles. [Lane, Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. xx. p. 544.J The interosseus primus volaris is a slender muscle arising from the ulnar side of the lase of the first metacarpal bone. It is inserted into the side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb in common jith the adductor pollicis. Its origin and insertion are marked in fig. 138, p. 139. Kerato-thyroid.—A short, slender muscle arising from the lower border of the cricoid irtilage behind the articular facet. It is inserted into the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Levator glandulae thyroidea.—This muscle arises from the isthmus, but more frequently om the pyramidal process of the th^-roid body. I It is inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone. Frequently it connected v^itli the thyro-hyoid muscle, and occasionally with the sterno-thyroid. I The levator claviculse arises from the transverse processes of the first and second jrvical vertebrae ; it appears as a dismemberment of the levator anguli scajmlcB. It is inserted into the outer half of the clavicle. * The mylo-g-lossus, a small accessory slip of the stylo-glossus, arises from the angle of le mandible, or from the stylo-maxillary ligament. It IS inserted' into the side of the tongue between the stylo- and hyo-glossus muscles. I^or figure, see Wood, Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. xv. p. 523.] The mento-hyoideus is a slip of muscle which arises from the body of the hyoid bone. i)metimes it consists of two parallel slips. It is inserted into the symphysis superficial to the mylo-hyoid muscle. The occipito-hyoid arises from the mastoid process of the temporal bone and adjacent prtion of the superior nuchal line. It passes superficially across the sterno-mastoid near j3 origin, to be inserted into the hyoid bone near the junction of the cornua with the jisi-hyoid, and in close association with the posterior belly of the digastric. [Perrin : :)od figures in Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. v. pp. 251-3.] The peroneo-calcaneus internus arises from the lower part of the flexor (posterior) 'irface of the fibula, external to the origin of the flexor longus hallucis. Its tendon [isses beneath the internal annular ligament with the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, I be inserted into the fore part of the inner surface of the calcaneum. [For figure and jference, see Thane, Proc. Anat. Soc. of Gt. Britain and Ireland, May 1891.] The pterygoideus proprius arises from the crest on the greater wing of the sphenoid. It is inserted into the posterior border of the external pterygoid plate, and occasion- ly into the tuberosity of the maxilla. [For figure, see Wagstaffe, Journ. of Anat. \id Phys. vol. V. p. 282.] The pterygo-spinous arises from the alar spine of the sphenoid. It is inserted into the posterior margin of the external pterygoid i^late. This muscle sometimes replaced by ligament. The peroneus quinti digiti arises from the lower fourth of the fibula imder cover of the jroneus brevis. It is inserted into the aponeurosis on the extensor surface of the little toe. [Wenzel I'uber has devoted a monograph to this muscle, entitled Musculus Peronei Digiti V. I3rlin, 1886.] The peroneus quartus arises from the flexor surface of the fibula between the ijeroneus evis and flexor longus hallucis. It is inserted into the ridge of the cuboid, or into the peroneal tubercle of the Icaneum. j The popliteus minor arises from the femur to the inner side of the plantaris. i It is inserted, into the posterior ligament of the knee joint. 1 The peroneo-tibialis arises from the inner side of the head of the fibula. I It is inserted into the upper extremity of the oblique line of the tibia beneath the {pliteus. The psoas parvus arises from tlie bodies of the last thoracic and first lumbar vertebrae •d from the disc between them. \ It is inserted by means of a thin flat tendon into the ilio-pectineal line. This muscle : frequently present. The rotator humeri arises from the under surface and outer border of the coracoid l )cess of the scapula. It passes across the tendon of the subscapularis, to be inserted into the neck of the linerus, below the lesser tuberosity, and between the insertions of the subscapularis id the conjoined tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles. ! The rotator humeri is a part of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and is often referred to