OPHTHALMIC DIVISION OF THE FIFTH NEBVE 795 i nucleus, and by a few fibres from the motor nucleus of the opposite side. It then passes downwards and forwards through the pons to emerge as the portio minor of the fifth nerve. At its emergence it is placed a little in front of the sensory portion, and is separated from the latter by some of the transverse fibres of the pons. The motor nucleus is an ovoid mass of cells considerably shorter than the accessory sensory nucleus, on the inner side of which it is placed. It is on the same line as the nucleus of the facial nerve, and is immediately in front of that nucleus. According to some observers some fibres of the descending root enter the sensory root and are said to eventually pass into the ophthalmic division. The sensory and motor roots of the nerve pass downwards and forwards towards I an aperture in the dura mater which is placed under cover of the tentorium I cerebelli, a little external to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. i In this course the motor root takes a half-spiral turn around the sensory root, passing first to the inner side, and then below the latter. Both roots then pass I through the aperture above mentioned to enter Meckel's space, between the sup- porting and periosteal layers of the dura mater. The motor root passes out of the skull through the foramen ovale, accompanied by a larger sensory bundle from the Gasserian ganglion, and joins Anth the latter outside the skull to form the mandibular (or inferior maxillary) division of the fifth nerve. The sensory root i spreads out into a flattened, somewhat fan-shaped, plexiform bundle, and enters i the Gasserian ganglion. The Gasserian ganglion is a reddish-grey band of ganglionic matter, with its long axis slightly curved so as to present a convexity forwards and outwards. The upper and lower surfaces of the ganglion are also slightly convex and are some- ' what adherent to the dura mater, the upper surface being more firmly attached than the lower. It rests on a depression on the petrous bone and, in front of this, on the cartilage which occupies the foramen lacerum medium. From the convex antero-external border of the ganglion, three large bundles of nerve-fibres arise. The first or ophthalmic division enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. The second or maxillary (superior maxillary) division leaves the skull through the I foramen rotundum. The third division passes through the foramen ovale in front of the motor root of the fifth nerve, Avith which it unites, as already described, to form the mandibular (inferior maxillary) division. The Gasserian ganglion I receives communications from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, and is said to furnish some minute twigs to the dura mater. First or Ophthalmic Division of the Fifth Nerve ' The ophthalmic is the smallest of the three divisions of the fifth, and is entirely sensory in function. It passes forwards and inwards in the outer wall of the ' cavernous sinus, where it is placed below and external to the fourth nerve. Imme- diately behind the sphenoidal fissure it divides into three branches. These branches pass through the sphenoidal fissure, where they pierce the fibrous derivative of the dura mater which closes in the fissure. Two of them, the frontal and the lachrymal, enter the orbit above the external rectus muscle. The remaining branch, the nasal, passes between the two heads of that muscle. In its course in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus the ophthalmic division receives communications from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, and gives ofi' a tentorial branch (nervus recurrens , rami primi, Luschka) which runs backwards for a short distance within the sheath of the fourth nerve, and is distributed between the layers of the tentorium cerebelli. It also gives communicating branches to the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. The : orbital muscles receive their sensory supply through these communications.