661 CEBEBBAL AND CEBEBELLAB i veins which leave the cranium by the foramen ovale and foramen lacerum medium, with the pterygoid and pharyngeal plexuses. (11) The spheno-parietal sinus, or sinus alse parvse, runs in a shght groove on the under surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. It originates in one of the meningeal veins near the apex of the lesser wing, and, running inwards, passes through the sphenoidal fold of dura mater above the third nerve into the front part of the cavernous sinus. It generally receives the fronto-sphenoidal veins from the diploe. The petro-squamous sinus is occasionally present. It lies in a groove along the junction of the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone. It opens posteriorly into the lateral sinus at the spot where the latter enters on its sigmoid course. In front it sometimes, though very rarely, passes through a foramen in the squamous portion of the temporal bone between the glenoid cavity and the external auditory meatus into the temporal vein. This sinus is the rudiment of what in early foetal life, before the development of the internal jugular vein, was the con- tinuation of the lateral sinus, the blood from the interior of the skull at this period passing through the above-mentioned foramen into the primitive jugular vein. ! 3. THE VEINS OF THE BEAIN The veins of the brain present the following peculiarities :—(a) They do not I accompany the cerebral arteries, (h) Ascending veins do not as in other situations run with descending arteries, but with ascending arteries, and vice versa, (c) The deep veins do not freely communicate, [d) The veins have very thin walls, no muscular coat, and no valves, {e) The veins opening into the longitudinal, and some of those opening into the lateral sinus pour in their blood in a direction opposite to the current in the sinuses, so impeding the flow in both vein and sinus. (/) The I flow of blood in the sinuses is further retarded by the trabeculae stretching across i their lumen, and in the longitudinal sinus by the blood having to ascend, when the body is erect, through the anterior half of its course. The veins of the brain may be divided into the cerebral and the cerebellar. The Cerebral Veins The cerebral veins, like the cerebral arteries, may be divided into the cortical or hemispheral, and the central or ganglionic. The cortical, hemispheral or superficial veins ramify on the surface of the brain and return the blood from the cortical substance into the venous sinuses. They lie ' for the most part in the sulci between the convolutions, but some pass over the I convolutions from one sulcus to another. They consist of two sets : a superior and an inferior. I (1) The superior cortical veins, some eight to twelve in number on each side, are formed by the union of branches from the convex and median surfaces of the I cerebrum. Those from the convex surface pass forwards and inwards towards the longitudinal fissure, where they are joined by the branches coming from the median I surface. After receiving a sheath from the arachnoid, they enter obliquely into the superior longitudinal sinus, running for some distance in its walls. These veins freely communicate with each other, thus differing from the cortical arteries. [They also communicate with the inferior cortical veins. They may be roughly ! subdivided into {a) frontal; (h) paracentral; (c) central; and (d) occipital. I (2) The inferior cortical veins ramify on the base of the hemisphere and the ! lower part of its outer surface. Those on the inferior surface of the frontal lobe I pass, in part into the inferior longitudinal sinus, and in part into the cavernous sinus. Those on the temporo-sphenoidal lobe enter in part into the superior i