43 THE TYMPANUM sometimes described together as the canalis musculo-tubarius. In carefully prepared bones the upper canal is a small horizontal hollow cone (anterior pyramid), 12 mm. in length, which lodges the tensor tympani muscle ; the apex is just in front of the fenestra ovalis, and is perforated to permit the passage of the tendon of the muscle. As a rule the thin walls of the canal are damaged, and represented merely by a thin ridge of bone. The posterior portion of this ridge projects into the tympanum, and is known as the processus cochleariformis. The thin septum between the canal for the tensor tympani and the tube is pierced by a narrow canal which is traversed by the small deep petrosal nerve. The outer wall is occupied mainly by the external auditory meatus. This opening is closed in the recent state by the tympanic membrane. The rim of bone to which the membrane is attached is incomplete above; the defect is known as the notch of Rivinus. Anterior to this notch, in the angle between the squamosal and the tympanic plate, is the Glaserian fissure, and the small passage which transmits the chorda tympani nerve sometimes called the canal of Huguier. The tympanic cavity may be divided into three parts. The part below the level of the superior margin of the external auditory meatus is the tympanum proper; Fig. 48.—The Inner AVall of Tympanum. ILAR the portion above this level is the attic of the tympanum ; it receives the head of the malleus, the body of the incus, and leads posteriorly into a recess known as the mastoid antrum. The mastoid antrum.—This is quite distinct from the mastoid cells. It is an air-chamber communicating with the attic of the tympanum. It is separated from the middle cranial fossa by the posterior portion of the tegmen tympani; the floor is formed by the mastoid portion of the petrosal; it communicates with the mastoid cells. The outer wall is formed by the squamosal below the supra-mastoid crest. In children the outer wall is exceedingly thin, but in the adult it is of considerable thickness. The external semicircular canal projects into the antrum on its inner wall, and is very conspicuous in the foetus. A canal occasionally leads from the mastoid antrmii through the petrous bone to open in the recess which indicates the position of the floccular fossa ; it is termed the petro- mastoid canal. (G-ruber.) The Fallopian canal.—This canal begins at the anterior angle of the superior fossa of the internal auditory meatus, and passes directly outwards to the hiatus Fallopii ; it then turns abruptly backwards and forms a horizontal ridge on the inner wall of the tympanum lying in the angle between it and the tegmen tympani. It passes immediately above the fenestra ovahs, and extends as far backwards as the entrance to the mastoid antrum ; here it comes into contact with