THE THIGH 1213 furrow, Mr. Holden describes a second, seen when the thigh is slightly bent, and crossing outwards from the angle between the scrotum and the thigh across the front of the latter, to be gradually lost between the top of tho great trochanter and the anterior superior spine. When present (for it is not constantly well marked) it is a valuable landmark, as it runs right across the capsule of the hip joint, and is thus useful in suspected hip joint disease, as pressure made in this line will tell if the joint be tender. In amputation through the hip joint by anterior and posterior jflaps, if the knife be introduced deeply along this line, the capsule will be exposed or even opened at the first thrust. Scarpa's triangle (fig. 758).—Immediately below Poupart's ligament, a hollow is seen corresponding to this region, the outer and inner boundaries of which are brought into view when the limb is raised, the adductor longus especially when the limb is abducted, and the sartorius where the thigh is flexed and Fig. 758.—Section of the Eight Thigh at the Apex of Scarpa's Triangle. (Heath.) Profunda vessels Femoral vessels Sartorius EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE Adductor longus I SUPERFICIAL OBTURATOR NERVE HeetuB femoris A NTERIOR CR URAL NERVE External circumfiex vessels Tensor fasciae femoris Vastus internus and crureus Vastus externus Gracilis Peetineus Adductor brevis DEEP OBTURATOR NERVE Adductor magnus Semi-membranosus Biceps femoris Semi-tendinosus SMALL SCIATIC NERVE GREAT SCIATIC NERVE adducted and carried towards its fellow. Lying superficially in the base of the triangle, the lymphatic glands can be detected in a thin person (fig. 790). They he in two groups—(«) One horizontal in a line w^ith Poupart's Hgament, and receiving lymph from the genitals, the lower part of the abdominal wall, and the inner aspect of the buttock; (b) a vertical set lying along the great vessels receiving lymph from the limb. According to Mr. Treves, a few of the superficial genital lymphatics, and all those from the perinaeum, go into the vertical group. Saphenous opening.—The depression corresponding to this is placed just below Gimbernat's hgament, with which its upper extremity blends. Its centre is about an inch and a half below and also external to a line dropped vertically from the pubic spine. This and the other structures concerned in femoral hernia are fully described under this section (vide sujira, page 1166). Line of femoral artery.—A hne drawn from the mid-point between the anterior superior spine and the symphysis pubis to the adductor tubercle will correspond