THE VEINS 652 jugular vein. One of its branches—usually the outermost—receives an emissary vein issuing through the mastoid foramen of the temporal bone, and in this way forms a communication with the lateral sinus. The deep cervical vein begins as a plexus of small veins in the suboccipital triangle. After receiving, as a rule, the occipital vein, it passes downwards between the complexus and the semispinalis colli, in company, first with the princeps cervicis branch of the occipital artery, and afterwards with the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal artery. On reaching the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, it turns forward between that process and the neck of the first rib, and opens either into the innominate vein direct, or into the vertebral immediately before that vein joins the innominate. Tributaries.—It receives branches from the muscles amongst which it runs. The Lateeal Supeeficial Veins of the Scalp The lateral veins descend, one in front and one behind the ear, and unite about the level of the angle of the jaw to form a single trunk—the external jugular vein. | The anterior vein, the larger of the two, is known as far as the zygoma as the i superficial temporal vein. There it is joined by a deep vein from the temporal j fossa^—the middle temporal vein; and the united trunk, now called the common temporal vein, passes over the zygoma into the parotid gland. Opposite the neck I of the lower jaw it receives the large internal maxillary vein, and takes the name j of the temporo-maxillary vein. This emerges from the lower border of the parotid ! gland, and joins the posterior lateral vein, which is known as the posterior auricular, \ to form the external jugular vein. | The Anterior Lateral Veins.—The superficial temporal vein returns the blood j from the parietal region of the scalp. It is formed by the union of an anterior and i posterior branch: the former communicates with the supraorbital and frontal veins ; i the latter with the posterior auricular and occipital veins and the temporal | vein of the opposite side. These branches lie superficial to the corresponding branches of the superficial temporal artery, Avhich they roughly though not accurately follow. Like the artery, they lie between the skin and the cranial aponeurosis, and j descend over the temporal fascia to unite a little above the zygoma, and just in front of the pinna of the ear, to form the superficial temporal trunk. The vein, thus formed continues its course downwards with the trunk of the temporal artery,; and opposite the zygoma is joined by the middle temporal vein to form the common ' temporal vein. The middle temporal vein corresponds with the middle temporal artery. It | begins in a plexus in the temporal fossa, and then runs backwards between the j layers of the temporal fascia, the outer layer of which it perforates near thej zygoma, to join the superficial temporal vein. It receives an orbital branch, whict j corresponds with the orbital branch of the temporal artery and communicates ir j front with the ophthalmic vein, the external palpebral veins, and the infraorbita i veins, and then runs backwards between the layers of the temporal fascia to joii j the middle temporal trunk or plexus. The middle temporal vein communicate;! with the deep temporal veins, and through them with the pterygoid venous plexus The common temporal vein, formed by the confluence of the superficial an( | middle temporal veins, descends over the zygoma just in front of the pinna of th* i ear, lying a little superficial to the temporal artery. Then, passing deeply int(! the parotid gland, between the external auditory meatus and the angle of the jaw | it is joined almost at a right angle by the internal maxillary vein, and becomes th ; temporo-maxillary vein. Tributaries.—It receives (a) the transverse facial vein, which corresponds t the transverse facial artery ; (b) articular veins from the plexus around th