146 THE SKELETON metacarpal bone. The radial border of the dorsal surface of the shaft often has a promment lip for the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle. Muscles:— Flexor carpi ulnaris. Fourth dorsal interosseous. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Third palmar interosseous. Opponens minimi digiti. Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery is derived from the third interosseous. It enters the shaft on the radial side, and is directed towards the proximal end. Ossification.—Each metacarpal is ossified from two centres. The nucleus for the shaft appears about the eighth week of embryonic life. At birth the shafts are Fig. 151.—The Fifth (Left) Metacarpal. ^ FOUl ULNAR SIDE well ossified, but each end is capped by a piece of cartilage. In the case of the first metacarpal, a centre for the epiphysis appears at the proximal end in the course of the third year. The bases of the remaining metacarpals are ossified from the shaft, but an epiphysis forms for the head of each bone in the third year The bones are usually consolidated by the twentieth year. In many cases the first metacarpal has t^vo epiphyses, one at the base and an additional one at the head ; the latter is never so large as in the other metacarpal bones. The third metacarpal occasionally has an additional nucleus for the prominent styloid process which constitutes such a distinguishing feature of this bone. The styloid process sometimes remains distinct, and is then known as the styloid "bone. Occasionally it fuses with the trapezoid or magnum. THE PHALANGES The phalanges are the bones of the fingers. They number in all fourteen : the thumb has two, the other fingers three each. Each phalanx has a shaft, which is broad and slightly concave on the palmar, rounded and smooth on the dorsal aspect. The sides of the palmar surface are raised where they give attachment to the sheaths of the flexor tendons. The bases of the phalanges of the first row present glenoid fossae which play upon the convex heads of the metacarpals. Their distal ends are surmounted by miniature condyles.