906 OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE \ I of the sac near the fundus. As has previously been mentioned, the sac is ; surrounded by periosteum, but between this and the mucous membrane forming | the true sac-wall there is a loose connective tissue, so that the cavity is capable of considerable distension. The relations of the inner palpebral ligament have i already been described ; it is to be noted that the fundus of the sac extends above j this ligament. | The nasal duct reaches from the lower end of the sac to the top of the inferior i meatus of the nose, opening into the latter just beneath the adherent border of the | inferior turbinated bone. Traced from above, its main direction is downwards, j but it has also a slight inclination backwards and outwards. It lies in a bony ! canal, whose periosteum forms its outer covering. Between this and the mucous | membrane of the duct there is a little intermediate tissue, in which run veins of ; considerable size connected with the plexus of the inferior turbinated bone. The duct does not usually open directly into the nasal cavity at the lower end of the \ bony canal, but pierces the nasal mucous membrane very obliquely, so that a flap \ of mucous membrane covers the lower border of the opening in the bone, upon which flap the tears first trickle after escaping from the duct proper. The sac and nasal duct together constitute the lachrymal canal, lined through- out by a continuous mucous membrane. This membrane presents folds in some situations, especially near the opening of the canaliculi, at the junction of the sac and duct and at the lower end of the duct. That at the top of the duct is the most important, as it sometimes interferes with the proper flow of tears out of the sac. The total length of the lachrymal canal is roughly twenty-four millimetres, half of . this being sac, and half nasal duct. If, however, we reckon as duct the oblique passage through the nasal mucous membrane, this measurement may occasionally be increased by eight or ten millimetres. The lachrymal sac, when distended, ; measures about six millimetres from before backwards, by four millimetres trans- ■ versely. The nasal duct is practically circular, and has a diameter of about three millimetres, rather less at its junction with the sac, where we find the narrowest ■ part of the whole lachrymal canal.