804 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM \ ! the posterior branch of the temporal artery. The anterior twigs communicate ^\'ith the temporal branches of the facial nerve. (2) The mandibular (inferior dental) nerve is the largest branch of the man- dibular division. It passes downwards under cover of the external pterygoid muscle to reach the interval between the ramus of the lower jaw and the spheno-mandibular ligament. In this situation it is placed on the outer side and somewhat behind the lingual nerve, and is connected to the latter by a transverse communicating branch. It then enters the mandibular canal accompanied by the mandibular artery, and lies at first behind and then below that vessel as it follows the course of the canal. Opposite the mental foramen it terminates by dividing into an incisive and a mental branch. The branches of the inferior dental nerve are the mylo-hyoid, the alveolar, the incisive, and the mental. (a) The mylo-hyoid is given off from the mandibular nerve immediately before the latter enters the dental canal. It runs downAvards and forwards in the mylo- hyoid groove of the mandible between the bone and the internal pterygoid muscle. In this course it is accompanied by the mylo-hyoid artery. It then runs forwards on the inferior surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and, after supplying that musclel with several twigs, it pierces the anterior belly of the digastric, in the substance oi= which it ends. j (b) The alveolar branches are a series of twigs which are given of!" within the mandibular canal to supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. They communicate with one another within the bone, forming a fine plexus. From this plexus twigs aid given off corresponding in number to the fangs of the teeth, and enter the minute apertures at the tips of the fangs to end in the pulp. Twigs are also given to the adjacent part of the gums (nervi gingivales). (c) The incisive branch, the smaller of the two terminal divisions, is continued] forwards and inwards in the dental canal, and supplies the canine and incisoi! teeth and the corresponding region of the gums. (d) The mental branch is a nerve of considerable size, which emerges through the: mental foramen. It communicates, near its exit, mth the supramandibular branch of the facial nerve, and then divides into three branches. The smallest branch turnj' downwards to supply the chin. The other two pass upwards, diverging as the} ascend, and divide into a number of twigs. The stoutest twigs ramify upon th( mucous membrane which lines the lower lip. Other twigs are distributed to th(' integument and fascia of the lip and chin. (3) The lingual (formerly called gustatory) nerve is slightly smaller than th(j mandibular nerve, and is placed at first in front of and close to the inner side oi' the latter under cover of the external pterygoid muscle. In this situation it w joined by the chorda tympani nerve ; the latter enters the lingual on its outer side the two nerves uniting at an acute angle. The lingual then escapes from undei cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and is connected to the mandibular nei-ve by a transverse communicating branch. It then passes between the ramus of th( mandible and the internal pterygoid muscle, and is continued forwards between th(' mucous membrane of the mouth and the mylo-hyoid muscle, and lies on the origiri of this muscle close to the bone. In this part of its course it can be easily dividec by an incision through the mucous membrane at the level of the second lowe: molar tooth. It then runs between the mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles crosses below Wharton's duct, and finally courses forwards by the side of th( tongue, so as to reach the tip of that organ. As it crosses the hyo-glossus muscl( it forms a curve with the convexity directed downwards, and is connected at th< most dependent part of the curve to the submandibular (submaxillary) ganglion, td which it furnishes sensory roots. Immediately beyond the ganglion it communi cates freely with the hypoglossal nerve, the communications forming several loops.j Branches.—(a) Communicating branches are given to the mandibular nerve, ii