604 THE ARTEBIES (ii) The deep branch subdivides into a superior and inferior branch, (a) The superior skirts along the hne of origin of the gluteus minimus, between the gluteus medius and the bone, and, emerging in front from beneath these muscles under cover of the tensor fasciae femoris (fig. 368), anastomoses with the ascending branch of the external circumflex and deep circumflex iliac arteries. (/?) The inferior branch passes forwards between the gluteus medius and minimus, accompanied by the branch to the tensor fasciae femoris of the inferior division of the superior gluteal nerve towards the great trochanter, where it anastomoses with the ascending branch of the external circumflex. It supplies branches to the contiguous muscles and to the hip joint. The deep branch before its division gives off the external nutrient artery of the ilium. Branches op the Anterior Division of the Internal | ^^^^ Iliac Artery 1. THE HYPOGASTEIC AETEEY The hypogastric artery, the main trunk of the internal iliac in the foetus, is the apparent continuation of the anterior branch of the internal iliac. Passing forwards along the side of the pelvis, it enters the lateral false ligament of the bladder, where, after giving off one or more vesical branches, it ceases to be pervious as it passes on to the side and upper part of the bladder. Thence it ascends, under cover of the anterior false ligament, as a fibrous cord, to the umbilicus, where it is joined by its fellow of the opposite side. As it lies in the lateral false ligament it is crossed by the vas deferens. 2. THE VESICAL AETEEIES The vesical arteries are divided into the superior, middle, and inferior. (1) The superior vesical artery—though usually described as a branch of the internal iliac, inasmuch as it is apparently given off from the anterior division of ■ that vessel—is really a branch of the unobliterated portion of what, in the foetus, was the hypogastric artery. It ramifies over the upper fundus of the bladder, anasto- mosing with the vessel of the opposite side anol with the middle and inferior vesical below. It gives off the following branches:—(a) The deferential, or artery of the vas deferens, arises from the superior vesical near the spot where the vas crosses the obliterated hypogastric artery, and, having reached the vas, divides into an ascending and descending branch. The ascenoiing branch follows the vas through the inguinal canal to the testicle, where it anastomoses with the sper- matic artery. The descending branch passes downwards to the dilated portion of the vas and vesicul^e seminales. (b) The uracheric branch passes upwards along the urachus. (c) The ureteric branches pass to the lower end of the ureter, which they supply, and anastomose with the other ureteric arteries, (d) The middle vesical (sometimes). ; (2) The middle vesical is a branch either of the superior vesical, or of the | unobliterated portion of the hypogastric artery. In the latter case it is given off | before the superior vesical. It is distributed to the sides and base of the bladder, i and anastomoses with the other vesical arteries. j (3) The inferior vesical arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, | frequently in common with the middle haemorrhoidal, and passes downwards and inwards to the base of the bladder, where it breaks up into branches which ramify over the lower part of the viscus. It gives off:—{a) Branches to the prostate, which supply that organ and anastomose with the arteries of the opposite side by liinon temori ites' iiicli fi