915 THE EAB stapedius, both of which he within bony canals—transmit their tendons into the cavity of the tympanum for insertion into the chain of ossicles. The tensor tympani is a penniform muscle about half an inch in length, and arises in small part from the cartilaginous Eustachian tube and adjacent surface of the sphenoid bone as well as from the wall of the canal in which it lies. The tendon, which extends outwards almost at a right angle to the belly of the muscle, can be traced some distance inwards on its lower aspect. It is inserted on the inner margin of the handle of the malleus, near its root. The tendon glides within a sheath continuous with the periosteum lining the canal and surrounded by mucous membrane. This muscle draws the handle of the malleus, and with it the membrana tympani, inwards. The stapedius is a pyriform muscle, and arises from the interior of the pyramidal eminence which projects from the posterior wall of the tympanum. The tendon, which can be traced inwards for more than half the length of the muscle, passes through the aperture at the summit of the eminence, to be inserted into the posterior aspect of the neck of the stapes. Its tendon, like that of the tensor tympani, is surrounded by a fibrous sheath enveloped in the tympanic mucous membrane. This muscle depresses the posterior, whilst at the same time it slightly raises the anterior, end of the foot-piece of the stapes. Nerves.—The stapedius is supplied by the facial nerve. The tensor tympani receives a filament from the otic ganglion which is probably derived from the I motor portion of the fifth nerve. i The Mucous Membrane of the Tympanum is continuous through the Eustachian tube with that which lines the pharynx. It is thin and transparent, and in places it is easily detached. Several vascular folds extend from the tympanic walls to the ossicles, all of which receive a complete covering. The following are the most important. {a) A prominent fold descends from the superior wall to the head of the malleus and the upper margin of the body of the incus, and surrounds anteriorly the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle. {h) A second fold envelops the stapes, forming between its crura the so-called obturator ligament of the stapes, and spreads posteriorly over its hinder crus to 3nvelop the tendon of the stapedius muscle. (c) The folds which form the inferior boundaries of the so-called pouches of the membrana tympani have already been described. Other folds which are inconstant and irregular appear to be the shrunken remains of the gelatinous connective tissue which fills the cavity in the foetal 3tate. The mucous membrane of the roof of the tympanum and that which lines :he membrana tympani and covers the ossicles possesses a flattened non-ciliated epithelium. Elsewhere for the most part, including the Eustachian tube, it is iolumnar and ciliated. j Vessels and nerves of the tympanum.—Arteries.—The tympanic branch of phe internal maxillary which passes through the Glaserian fissure, and the stylo- jnastoid branch of the posterior auricular which passes through the Fallopian ;anal, supply the front and back part of the tympanic cavity, and form a vascular chain around the circumference of the membrana tympani. In addition io these chief branches the hiatus Fallopii transmits the petrosal branch from the niddle meningeal, whilst fine branches leave the carotid artery as it traverses the iiarotid canal. The ascending pharyngeal sends branches to the Eustachian tube, pome of which reach the tympanum, ii, ^1 Veins.—The veins empty into the superior petrosal sinus and into the temporo- laxillary. Nerves.—The tympanic mucous membrane is supplied by the tympanic plexus an^ttkhich occupies the grooves on the promontory and inner wall of the cavity. I 3 N 2