574 THE ABTERIES (2) The muscular branches of the radial artery come off irregularly to supply the contiguous muscles on the outer side of the forearm. (3) The anterior radial carpal arises from the inner side of the radial artery about the level of the lower border of the pronator quadratus. It crosses the front of the radius beneath the flexor muscles, and anastomoses with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar, forming what is sometimes called the anterior carpal arch; or what is, more properly speaking, an arterial plexus or rete—the anterior carpal rete. This plexus is joined above by small twigs from the anterior interosseous artery, and beloAv by recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch. It supplies branches to the lower end of the radius, and to the wrist and carpal joints. (4) The superficial volar leaves the radial artery as the latter vessel is about to turn over the external lateral ligament to the back of the wrist. It courses forwards over the short muscles of the ball of the thumb, and anastomoses with the superficial branch of the ulnar artery to complete the superficial palmar arch. It supplies small branches to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, and at times terminates in these muscles without joining the arch. Occasionally it passes beneath the abductor pollicis. II. The Eadial Artery at the Wrist The radial artery at the wrist winds over the outer side of the carpus, under the extensor tendons of the thumb, from a spot a little below and internal to the styloid process of the radius to the base of the first interosseous space, where it sinks between the two heads of the abductor indicis into the palm, to form, by anastomosing Avith the deep branch of the ulnar artery, the deep palmar arch. A line drawn from half an inch internal to the styloid process to the base of the first interosseous space, which can be distinctly felt on the back of the hand, will roughly indicate the course of the artery. Relations.—The artery is covered successively by the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii pollicis, by branches of the radial nerve and superficial radial veins, and, just before it sinks between the two heads of the abductor indicis, by the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The branches of the radial nerve to the thumb and index finger cross it. It is at first somewhat deeply placed beneath the first-mentioned extensor muscles of the thumb ; but subsequently it lies quite superficial, and can be felt pulsating in a little triangular depression bounded on either side by the extensor primi and extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and above by the lower end of the radius. The artery lies successively on the external lateral ligament of the wrist, on the scaphoid, the trapezium, the base of the first metacarpal bone, and on the dorsal ligaments uniting these bones. It has usually with it two companion veins, and a few branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The branches of the radial artery at the wrist are :—(1) The posterior radial carpal; (2) the metacarpal, or the first dorsal interosseous; (3) the dorsalis pollicis, or dorsal artery of the thumb ; (4) the dorsalis indicis, or dorsal digital artery of the first finger. (1) The posterior radial carpal arises from the radial as the latter vessel passes under the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and runs inwards beneath the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, across the back of the carpus, to anastomose with the posterior ulnar carpal and with the terminal twigs of the posterior branch of the anterior interosseous artery. This anastomosis is called the posterior carpal arch, or posterior carpal rete. The two following named branches are given off from this arch or rete :—{cl) The second and (h) the third dorsal interosseous arteries to the third and fourth spaces respec- j tively. These vessels run downwards on the dorsal interosseous muscles as far as