QUADBATUS FEMOBIS—ADDUCTOR LONGUS 379 >n ii;aii! oti roili iioleolj Ifct 111 p. p\ ik\ im i mi ofap iuMi trail irarifi i, kj ™ei,i beoltii it,tlie^ :h to* 'tlieiiiiJ llylli8| •OH! ill 0^ Nerve-supply.—From the sacral plexus (through the fifth lumbar and first sacral nerve) by a special branch which, after furnishing filaments to the inferior o-emellus, enters the muscle near the upper part of its anterior surface close to its origin. Action.—It approximates the posterior border of the great trochanter to the tuber ischii, and so assists powerfully in the external rotation of the femur. Relations.—Behind, the gluteus maximus and the two sciatic nerves ; in front, the obturator externus and the termination of the internal circumflex artery. A.bove is the inferior gemellus, and below the adductor magnus. Variations.—This muscle is not unfrequently absent. 6. OBTURATOR EXTERNUS The obturator externus is a strong external rotator of the thigh, but it is also an adductor, and on account of its nerve-supply and position it is better described in that group of muscles. THE ADDUCTOES The adductor muscles form a distinct group on the inner side of the thigh, and are all supplied by the obturator nerve with the exception of a small part of the adductor magnus. They consist of the adductor longus, adductor brevis, adductor magnus, gracilis, and obturator externus. 1. ADDUCTOR LONGUS The adductor longus—so named from its action and its length compared with that of its immediate neighbour—is a thick triangular sheet. Origin.—A rounded impression on the front of the body of the os pubis immediately below the crest and angle. Insertion.—(1) The lower two-thirds of the inner lip of the linea aspera (in the middle third of the thigh); and (2) the adjacent internal intermuscular septum. Structure.—Arising by a strong rounded tendon, which extends about two inches downwards upon the inner border of the muscle, the fleshy fibres diverge in a fan-shaped expansion, and are inserted by short tendinous fibres which blend behind with those of the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. Nerve-supply.—From the third and fourth nerves of the lumbar plexus, by branches from the anterior division of the obturator nerve which enter the muscle on the upper part of its posterior surface rather below its middle. Action.—To adduct and flex the femur, and at the same time to rotate it out- wards. Relations.—In front, the fascia lata, sartorius, vastus internus and femoral vessels; behind, the adductor brevis and magnus, the profunda vessels, and obturator nerve ; its upper border touches the pectineus. Variations.—The adductor longus may arise by two heads, the outer being attached to the crest of the pubes, and separate from the ordinary head which arises below the angle. Occa- sionally the muscle is divided by the passage oi" vessels into an upper and a lower portion.