DEVELOPMENT OF GENITO-UEINABY OBGANS 1095 the future clitoris or penis, at the ventral extremity of the cloacal fissure about the fifth or sixth week. A fortnight later the cloaca is divided by a transverse septum into ;wo parts, a dorsal or anal, and a ventral or uro-genital (uro-genital sinus) ; the septum tself persisting as the perinseal body in the female, and the portion of the perinseum lying between the scrotum and anus in the male. Its absence or incomplete development accounts for certain congenital malformations well known to teratologists. The uro-genital sinus next undergoes changes which give the external stamp of sex. At first the urethra 3pens into the sinus behind the genital prominence. In the female this remains perma- lent, the lips of the sinus expand into the labia majora; two ridges within the sinus, Extending one on each side as high as the genital prominence, form the nymphae ; and a little semilunar fold at the entrance of the vagina shows itself in the fifth month and becomes the hymen; while the genital eminence ceases to enlarge and remains as the Fig. 646.—Development of the Urino-generative Organs, Male Type. (After Henle.) IC URETHRA SPONGIOSUM CAVERNOSUM cHtoris. In the male the evolutionary processes go farther. The margins of the uro-genital sinus fuse in the middle line to close in a prolongation of the urethra on the ventral aspect of the genital eminence and to form the scrotum, the process being concluded about the fifteenth week ; finally, a pouch of peritoneum makes its way on each side through the abdominal wall into the corresponding half of the scrotum, and into this the testicle I ultimately descends, guided by the gubernaculum (page 1063). The glands of Cowper [or Bartholin in both sexes are formed by involutions of epithelium near the root of the rudimentary clitoris or penis. Should the process of mesial fusion fail, the urethra may present a fistulous opening on its ventral side, or ma,j remain cleft from the meatus upwards for a greater or less distance.