THE VEINS 640 THE INNOMINATE OE BRACHIO-CEPHALIC VEINS The innominate veins return the blood from the head and neck and upper extremity. They are formed on each side by the confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian veins behind the sternal end of the clavicle. They terminate at the | lower border of the first costal cartilage on the right side by uniting to form the I superior vena cava. The innominate veins have no valves. j The right innominate vein (fig. 382) measures about one to one and a half j inch in length (2-3 cm.), and descends from its origin behind the sternal end of the I clavicle, very slightly forwards and inwards, superficial to, and to the right of, the i subclavian and innominate arteries, to its junction with the left vein behind the first costal cartilage close to the sternum. Relations.—In front (fig. 327) are the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles, the clavicle, the first costal cartilage, and the remains of the I thymus gland. Behind are the pleura and lung. To the right are the right pleura and lung, and the phrenic nerve. To the left (fig. 381a) are the right subclavian artery, the innominate artery, \ the right pneumogastric nerve, and the trachea. I The left innominate vein (fig. 381a) measures two and a half to three inches in j length (6-7 cm.), and extends from its origin behind the sternal end of the left clavicle obliquely across the three main branches of the arch of the aorta to unite with the right innominate vein at the lower border of the cartilage of the first rib i close to the sternum to form the vena cava superior. In this course it runs from j left to right with an inclination downwards and slightly backwards. A line drawn obliquely across the upper half of the manubrium of the sternum, from the sterno- ; clavicular articulation on the left side to the lower border of the first costal carti- lage at its junction with the sternum on the right side, will indicate its course. The left innominate vein is on a level with the top of the sternum at birth. < Relations.—In front, in addition to the manubrium of the sternum, it has the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the remains of the thymus gland, the sternal end of the left clavicle, and the sterno-clavicular articu- i lation (figs. 328, 381a). Behind, are the three chief arteries arising from the arch of the aorta, the trachea, and the left phrenic and left pneumogastric nerves. j Below it is the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta. 1 Above it are the cervical fascia and inferior thyroid veins. j Tributaries.—In addition to the internal jugular and subclavian veins, by the j confluence of which the innominate veins are formed, each vein receives on its | upper aspect the vertebral, the deep cervical and inferior thyroid veins ; and on its i lower aspect the internal mammary vein. The left vein, moreover, is joined by the left superior intercostal, and by the thymic, mediastinal, and pericardiac veins. At the confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian veins on the right side, the right lymphatic duct opens ; on the left side the thoracic duct. The vertebral, j the deep cervical, and the inferior thyroid veins are described with the deep veins of j the head and neck (page 666). The internal mammary veins (fig. 344) are formed by the union of thei vense comites of the superior epigastric and musculo-phrenic branches of the in- ternal mammary artery. They receive in their course through the chest collateral tributaries corresponding to the branches of the internal mammary artery. Just before reaching the innominate vein they unite behind the first intercostal space to form a single trunk which opens into the innominate vein on the inner side oi the internal mammary artery. They contain many valves.