990 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION peritoneum is seen to cover the transversalis fascia, and indirectly the anterior abdominal muscles ; then, x^assing to the left, it lines the side of the abdomen, until it reaches the descending colon. This it covers, as a rule, in front and on the sides, though occasionally, as shown in the diagram (fig. 561), it forms a meso-colon. Then it passes over the bodies of the vertebrae with the large vessels upon them, and leaves the back of the abdomen to run forward to enclose the termination of the small intestine, returning again to the spine. The two layers thus form the mesentery, having between them the termmal branches of the superior mesenteric vessels. It then passes over the right half of the posterior abdominal wall, covering the ascending colon in front, and at the sides only, unless there be a meso-colon, and then passes on to the side and front of the abdomen to the point from which it was first traced. In tracing the peritoneum in a section of the body (fig. 562) opposite the stomach, at a level with the first lumbar vertebra, its course becomes more com- plicated and difficult to follow. In the section already given the peritoneum as a simple closed sac can be readily conceived ; but at the level now exposed the serous membrane has been so introverted that there appear to be two sacs, one leading from the other. The Fig. 562.—Transverse Section of the Abdomen at the Level of the Foramen OF WiNSLOW. GASTRO-HEPATIC OMENTUM lesser is indeed but a diverticulum or bulging from the greater, and the maimer of its formation is explained on page 1039. These two sacs are called the greater and the lesser sacs of the peritoneum. They communicate through a narrow strait or neck, the foramen of Wmslow. The lesser sac or cavity is discovered behind the stomach, so that on first opening the abdomen no trace of it is to be seen. It extends downwards between the layers of the great omentum (though this part of the lesser sac is always obliterated by adhesion in the adult). It extends upwards to the under surface of the liver, and is limited behind by the posterior abdominal wall; and below, behind the great omentum, by the transverse meso- colon. Its disposition on vertical section is shown in fig. 563. The foramen of Winslow is situated just below the hver ; it looks forwards and towards the right, and \dll readily admit one or two fingers. It is bounded above by the caudate lobe of the liver ; below, by the duodenum and hepatic vessels; behind, by the vena cava; and in front by the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum, containing the structures passing to and from the liver. Starting at the foramen of ^Mnslow, the lesser sac will be found to turn to the left. If now the peritoneum be viewed in a transverse section of the body at the