218 THE ARTICULATIONS j j inseparably connected with the interosseous cartilage. Both on the front and back aspects of the joint it gives off decussating fibres, which, by their interlacement over the anterior and posterior ligaments of the symphysis, add very materially to its security. In fact, the ligament may be said to split superiorly into two layers, one passing over the front, and the other over the back of the articulation. It is sometimes known as the ligamentum arcuatum. The interosseous cartilage varies in thickness in different subjects, but is thicker in the female than in the male. It is thicker in front than behind, and projects beyond the edges of the bones, especially posteriorly (see fig. 212), blending intimately with the ligaments at its margins. It is sometimes uninterruptedly woven throughout, but at others has an elongated narrow fissure, partially dividing the cartilage into two plates, with a little fluid in the interspace (fig. 213). This is situated towards the upper and posterior aspects, but does not reach to either, and usually extends about half the length of the cartilage. The interosseous cartilage is intimately adherent to the rough osseous surface of the bone, which is ridged to give it a firmer attachment; and, on forcing the bones apart, it does not usually split into two plates, but is torn from the bone on one side or the other. Fig. 213.—Section op Symphysis to show the Synovial Cavity. The arterial supply is from twigs of the internal pudic, pubic branches of the obturator and epigastric, and ascending branches of the internal circumflex and superficial external pudic. The nerve-supply has not been satisfactorily made out. The movements amount only to a slight yielding of the cartilage; neither muscular force nor extrinsic forces produce any appreciable movement in the ordinary condition. Occasionally, as the result of child-bearing, the joint becomes unnaturally loose, and then walking and standing are painfully unsteady. It is known that, during pregnancy and parturition, the symphysial cartilage becomes softer and more vascular, so as to permit the temporary enlargement of the pelvis; but it must be remembered that the fibres of the oblique muscles decussate, and thus, during labour, while they force the head of the foetus down, they strengthen the joint by bracing the bones more tightly together. 4. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS WITH THE VERTEBRAE These consist of two sets, viz.:— {a) The eosto-central: i.e. the articulation of the head of the rib with the vertebrae. {h) The costo-transverse, or the articulation of the tubercle (of each of the