316 THE MUSCLES 1. DELTOID The deltoid muscle (figs. 262, 264)—named from its resemblance to the Greek | letter delta when inverted—is a very thick triangular sheet, with the apex j directed downwards, and with its plane curved upon itself from before backwards, j so as to wrap round the front, outer side, and back of the upper end of the ! humerus. j Origin.—(1) The anterior border and adjacent part of the upper surface of the | outer third of the clavicle; (2) the outer border and adjacent part of the upper ; surface of the acromion ; (3) the lower border of the spine of the scapula and : the fascia covering the infra-spinatus muscle, near the vertebral border of the i scapula. Insertion.—A rough triangular impression, with the apex downwards, and from ! two to three inches long, just above the middle of the outer surface of the I humerus. Structure.—At the front and back part of its origin it arises by short, tendinous fibres which end in parallel muscular bundles. At the middle part, strong fibrous septa three or four in number pass downwards from the acromion process into the substance of the muscle, upon the surface of which their outer edges are visible. The fleshy fibres of this part of the muscle arise both from the acromion and from the surfaces of these septa. The short strong tendon of insertion is prolonged upwards into three fibrous planes, which, as well as the tendon, receive the fleshy fibres of the middle part in multipenniform fashion. The muscular bundles from the front and back parts of the origin are inserted upon the anterior and posterior surfaces of the tendon of insertion. In front, this tendon is connected with that of the pectoralis major; below, it gives fibres to the external intermuscular septum, and also to the upper part of the brachialis anticus. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the fifth and sixth cervical nerves) by means of the circumflex nerve. This nerve j enters the deep surface of the muscle by several filaments about half way between j the origin and insertion. j Action.—When all its fibres contract together, it will abduct the humerus j through a right angle. If the first and second parts act alone, they will flex and | abduct the arm, as when it is raised to the level of the shoulder and at the same \ time directed forwards. The posterior and middle portions of the muscle by their 1 contraction will abduct the arm, and at the same time extend it, as when the arm \ is elevated, and at the same time directed backwards. { The movements of abduction, or of abduction combined with flexion, are i through 90° ; of abduction combined with extension, only through 45°. In its action | the muscle forms a lever of the third order. The greater advantage v/hich it gains by its insertion at a considerable distance from its fulcrum at the shoulder joint is lost by the extreme obliquity of its direction. Hence the great thickness and strength of the muscle, and the facility with which this movement is lost ' by injury or disease. For the proper action of this muscle in elevation of the arm, it is necessary for the scapula to be held firm by means of the serratus magnus. Relations.— Superficially, the integument and deep fascia ; upon its front border, the pectoralis major, a small artery, and the cephalic vein ; deeply, the coracoid process and upper extremity of the humerus, the tendons of the pectoralis minor and major, the short head of the biceps, coraco-brachialis, subscapularis, supra- j spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, the long heads of the biceps and triceps, the I outer head of the triceps, the coraco-clavicular and coraco-acromial ligaments, the