344 THE MUSCLES The one joins with the tendon of the ring finger, which immediately afterwards gives off a transverse band to the extensor tendon of the little finger, and the other part joins the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti upon the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the seventh cervical nerve) by several branches from the posterior interosseous division of the musculo-spiral nerve which enter the upper part of the deep surface of the muscle. i Action.—(1) Chiefly to extend the first phalanges of the fingers. (2) It has^ some power of extending the second and third phalanges ; but this part of the tendon of the muscle is chiefly under the control of the lumbricales and interossei,! which are attached to the sides of the expansion covering the first phalanx. After; extending the fingers, it will also (8) help in the extension of the wrist ; and (4) to a slight extent, of the elbow joint. The bands by which the tendons are attached! to one another upon the back of the hand hinder independent extension, especially! in the ring finger. The little and index fingers, having special extensors, do not| labour under this disadvantage. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia and posterior annular ligament; deeply, the supinator brevis, the three extensors of the thumb, the extensor indicis. the dorsal interossei, the posterior and anterior interosseous vessels, the posterioi| interosseous nerve, the wrist and carpal joints ; on the radial side is the extensoij carpi radialis brevior; and on the ulnar, the extensor minimi digiti. !1 Variations.—Some of the tendons may be deficient, or more frequently the muscle -nist. divides into more than four tendons, two or even three of which may be attached tc one finger. Occasionally a tendon joins that of the extensor longus pollicis. 2. EXTENSOR MINIMI DIGITI !ervi ice 6£Ill0- tefoi ictio: lism isori teuli Dttter The extensor minimi digiti—named from its action upon the little finger—is small and fusiform. Origin.—(1) The common tendon from the back of the external condyle by i long fibrous process; (2) the deep fascia; and (3) the intermuscular septa whicl intervene between it and the adjacent muscles. Insertion.—With the corresponding tendon of the preceding muscle. Structure —Arising from the interior of the elongated case formed by th( various aponeuroses which diverge from the back of the external condyle, th( fleshy fibres, which do not begin till some distance below that point, are insertec into the radial border of a tendon which begins about the middle of the forearm and becomes free a short distance above the wrist joint, a little higher than thai of the corresponding part of the preceding muscle. Passing through the fiftt compartment of the posterior annular ligament, which lies upon the line of junctior of the radius and ulna, the tendon reaches the back of the fifth metacarpal bone, anc there blenis with the fourth tendon of the extensor communis digitorum immediately above the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. ; Itea Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through thej jj^],^ seventh cervical nerve), by a branch from the posterior interosseous division of th( musculo-spiral which enters the deep surface of the upper part of the muscle. Action.—(1) To extend the first phalanx of the httle finger ; (2) to extend th(j k^^ second and third phalanges ; (3) to extend the wrist ; and (4) very slightly th(| elbow also. ^ , iltnid Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia of the forearm and the posterioij annular ligament ; deeply, the supinator brevis, the three extensors of the thumbi 1^^^^ and the extensor indicis, the inferior radio-ulnar joint, and the posterior \