TIBIALIS POSTICUS 399 thirds of the shaft; (3) the antero-internal (or inner part of the flexor) surface of the fibula at the back of the interosseous ridge to within an inch or two of the ankle; (4) the intermuscular septa which intervene between it and the muscles of the third layer, viz. the flexor longus hallucis and the flexor longus digitorum ; and (5) a small portion of the deep fascia covering the back of the third layer. Insertion.—(1) The tuberosity of the scaphoid bone ; (2) by several smaller offsets into the front of the lower surface of the sustentaculum tali and the under surface of all the other tarsal bones with the exception of the astragalus ; and (3) the under surface of the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. I Structure.—A strong bipenniform muscle, the central tendon of which, lying upon the middle of the back of the muscle, begins about the middle of the leg, and ipasses downwards and inwards upon the back of the muscle, receiving its last fleshy [fibres about an inch above the ankle. Having passed inwards beneath the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, it enters the innermost groove on the back of the internal malleolus, and is contained in a synovial sheath which accompanies it to its 'nsertion upon the scaphoid bone. From this insertion strong fibrous bands radiate ackwards, outwards, and forwards to the tarsal and metatarsal bones, being inti- ately blended wdth the ligaments by which these bones are held together. This uscle, which is very strong, is contained, so to speak, in a four-sided prismatic case "ormed in the front by the interosseous membrane; at the sides, by the opposing urfaces of the tibia and fibula ; and behind, at a distance of nearly half an inch from he interosseous membrane, by the intermuscular septa which separate the muscle rem the flexor longus hallucis and the flexor longus digitorum. Just above its insertion into the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone, the tendon ften contains a sesamoid bone. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior tibial, which sends branches forwards to he back of the muscle in the upper third of the leg. Action.—(1) To adduct the front of the foot; (2) to invert the sole ; (3) to xtend the ankle—the last of these movements is somewhat limited ; (4) to upport the longitudinal arch of the foot—firstly, by drawing backwards the lower art of the scaphoid, and so preventing the descent of the head of the astragalus etween the scaphoid and calcaneum, and secondly by its traction upon the other arsal bones upon which the secondary offsets of its tendon are inserted. Relations.—Superficially, the soleus and third layer of muscles of the leg, the osterior tibial and peroneal vessels and the posterior tibial nerve above; the endon of the flexor longus digitorum and the abductor hallucis below ; deeply, he ankle joint and inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The anterior tibial vessels "ass through a notch at the upper extremity of the muscle, between its tibial and bular origins. f THE FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT The plantar fascia is, like the corresponding fascia in the palm, very strong, and is divided into three parts. The central part, which is the strongest, arises from the under surface of the calcaneum at the back of the tubercles. It is triangular in shape and expands forwards to its attachment at the base of the toes, where it splits into five divisions. Each division forms an a^rch over the tendons entering the toe, and is continuous with the ligamentum vaginale of the theca. The sides of the arch pass upwards to be attached to the deep transverse ligament which I