THE SKELETON 54 olfactory bulb, and is perforated for the transmission of the filaments of the olfactory nerves. On each side, near the anterior part of the crista, there is a narrow longitudinal slit for the nasal branch of the fifth nerve. The perpendicular plate (mesethmoid) is directly continuous with the crista on the under aspect of the cribriform plate. It is a lamella of bone, trapezoid in shape, which forms the upper part of the nasal septum ; usually it is laterally deflected. Its anterior border articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal, and the crest of the nasal bones. The inferior border has the triangular cartilage attached to it. The posterior border is subdivided : the upper half articulates with the crest of the sphenoid, and the lower articulates with the vomer. The surfaces of this plate present, especially in their upper parts, numerous foramina for vessels, and grooves for filaments of the olfactory nerves. The lateral mass, or labyrinth, of the ethmoid consists of two scroll-like pieces of bone, the superior and inferior turbinals (ethmo-turbinals) ; a smooth, quadrilateral plate of bone, the OS planum, and a number of air-cells. The OS planum is on the outer side of the lateral mass, and forms a large por- FiG. G3.—The Ethmoid. (Side view.) ilDAL Hon of the inner wall of the orbit. By the anterior border it articulates Avith the lachrymal, by the posterior border with the sphenoid and the orbital process of the palate bone; the inferior border articulates with the inner margin of the orbital plate of the maxilla, and by the superior border with the horizontal plate of the frontal. Two notches in the superior border lead into grooves running horizontally across the lateral masses to the cribriform plate. These ethmoidal grooves are converted into canals by the frontal bone. The anterior canal transmits the anterior ethmoidal artery and nasal nerve; the posterior is for the posterior ethmoidal artery. The turbinals project on the inner aspect of the lateral mass; they coalesce anteriorly, but are separated posteriorly by a space, termed the superior meatus. Each turbinal has an attached upper, and a free, slightly convoluted, lower border. In the recent state they are covered with mucous membrane, and present numerous foramina for blood-vessels, and grooves for twigs of the olfactory nerves. On the under surface of each lateral mass, near the anterior corner of the os I)lanum, an irregular lamina of bone projects downwards and backwards. This is the unciform process : it articulates with the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinal, and forms a small part of the inner wall of the antrum.