THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 838 having communicated near the wist with the radial nerve, terminates in the skin covering the middle part of the thenar eminence. (5) The median nerve is formed by fibres derived from the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves. It arises by two heads, one from the outer, and one from the inner cord. The inner head crosses obliquely in front of the third stage of the axillary artery, and joins the outer head on the external side j of that vessel. The median nerve runs almost vertically down the arm under cover of i the skin and fascia, and is partially overlapped by the biceps. In the upper part j of the arm it is placed on the outer side of the brachial artery. About the middle | of the arm it crosses in front of that vessel, and then runs down on the inner side of the artery to the bend of the elbow. It then passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres, and is separated from the ulnar artery in this situation by the deep head of the muscle. It then runs vertically downwards in the middle line of the forearm between the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus digitorum ; in this part of its course it is accompanied by a companion artery, the comes nervi mediani. At the upper border of the annular ligament it is placed between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus muscles, and somewhat overlapped by the tendons of the flexor sublimis. It then passes under cover of the anterior annular ligament on the superficial surface of the flexor tendons, and, at the lower border of the ligament, bifurcates into two terminal divisions, an inner and an outer. Branches.—The median nerve does not supply any part of the upper arm. In front of the elbow joint it furnishes one or two filaments to the articulation. In the forearm it supplies all the superficial anterior muscles (with the exception of the flexor carpi ulnaris) directly from its trunk, and supplies the deep muscles (with the exception of the inner half of the flexor profundus) by its anterior interosseous branch. In the hand it supplies the group of short muscles of the thumb (with the exception of those which are placed on the ulnar side of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis), the two outer lumbricales, the integument covering the central part of the palm and inner part of the thenar eminence, and the palmar aspect of the thumb, index, middle, and radial half of the ring fingers. It also sends twigs to the dorsal aspect of these digits. (a) The nerve to the pronator radii teres arises a little above the bend of the elbow, and pierces the outer border of that muscle. (b) The nerves to the flexor carpi radialis, palmaris long^us, and flexor sublimis digitorum arise a little lower down, and pierce the pronator-flexor mass of muscles, to end in the respective members of the group for which they are destined. (c) The anterior interosseous nerve arises from the median at the level of the bicipital tubercle of the radius, and runs downwards on the interosseous membrane accompanied by the anterior interosseous artery. It passes under cover of the pronator quadratus, and pierces the deep surface of that muscle. The anterior interosseous nerve also furnishes a twig to the front of the wrist joint and supplies the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus pollicis. The nerve to the former muscle arises from the posterior interosseous near its commencement and supplies the outer two divisions of the muscle, and communicates within its substance with twigs derived from the ulnar nerve. (d) The palmar cutaneous branch arises immediately above the anterior annular ligament and passes between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and the palmaris longus. It then crosses the superficial surface of the annular ligament, is distributed to the integument and fascia on the central depressed surface of the palm, and supplies a few twigs to the inner border of the thenar eminence ; these twigs communicate with the musculo-cutaneous and radial nerves. (e) The branch to the muscles of the thumb arises at the lower border of the annular ligament, and, winding round that ligament, divides into twigs to supply the abductor, the opponens, and the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis.