1003 THE SMALL INTESTINE I In many instances no kind of methodical arrangement is apparent. The j coils of small intestine most usually found in the pelvis belong to the terminal part i of the ileum, and to that part of the intestine that has the longest mesentery— the part, namely, that extends between two points, respectively six and eleven feet from the end of the duodenum. In five out of one hundred cases examined, the coils were arranged in an exactly reverse manner to that just described. The jejunum (jejunus, empty).—The jejunum is the name given to the upper two-fifths of the small intestine below the duodenum. i The term ileum (dX^iv to twist) is applied to the last three-fifths of the bowel. The ileum ends at the ileo-caecal valve. The coils formed by the jejunum and ileum are very movable, are completely invested by peritoneum, and are supported and attached to the posterior parietes by the extensive membrane known as the I mesentery. The intestine alters gradually in character from above downwards. If a segment from the middle of the jejunum be compared with a portion of the middle ileum, the following differences would be noted. The diameter of the jejunum is about an inch and a half, that of the ileum one and a quarter. The jejunum has thicker walls, is more vascular, and is provided with a more complex mucous membrane. I Meckel's diverticulum—From one to three feet from the end of the ileum is sometimes seen a diverticulum, or blind tube or cord, coming off from the free margin of the bowel. This is Meckel's diverticulum, and represents the remains of jthe vitello-intestinal duct (page 1030). I The mesentery.—The mesentery extends from the end of the duodenum to the ileo-c^cal junction. It envelopes and supports the ileum and jejunum. Its upper j or right layer is continuous with the under layer of the transverse meso-colon and with the peritoneum that invests the ascending colon. Its lower or left layer joins with the serous membrane that encloses the descending colon and that forms the sigmoid mesentery (fig. 561). [ The point at which the mesentery is attached above is on a level with the lower [border of the pancreas and just to the left of the vertebral bodies. From this point the insertion of the mesentery follows an oblique line that runs downwards and to the right, crossing the great vessels, and ending in some part of the iliac ifossa (fig. 599). In the absence of an ascending meso-colon (the normal condition) the peritoneum that covers the cfecum is reflected from the hinder surface of that part of the bowel on to the posterior parietes ; at this reflexion the mesentery ends. If an ascending meso-colon exists, the mesentery terminates by joining it. jThe parietal attachment of the mesentery measures, as a rule, about six inches [(fig. 599). The length of the mesentery from the spine to the intestine varies in different parts of the canal; its average length may be taken as between eight and nine inches. It soon attains its full length, and within one foot of the end of the duodenum is already six inches in length. The ordinary type of mesentery conforms to the figure of half a circle, but the membrane is liable to considerable variation. It is not uncommon to find the mesentery maintaining a considerable length up nearly to the end of the ileum. Structure of the small intestine.—Its coats are four in number, viz. serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous. The intestine receives its serous covering from J the peritoneum, and, with the exception of certain parts of the duodenum which have been described, it is covered entirely by it, save only where the layers leave it behind to form the mesentery. The line of attachment of the mesentery marks the attached border of the small intestine. The muscular coat is divided into an external longitudinal layer and an internal circular, the circular being the thicker of the two. Both layers are uniform around the bowel.