THE MUSCLES 468 Muscles eadiatixg from the Mouth The two muscles which radiate from the month are the depressor alse nasi and the levator menti. 1. DEPRESSOR AL^ NASI The depressor al?e nasi has been described with the muscles of the nose. 2. LEVATOR MENTI The levator menli, or levator labii inferioris—named from its action—is a short, thick, and somewhat fan-shaped muscle, belonging to the second layer. Origin.—The incisive fossa of the mandible, below and a little internal to the attachment of the incisivus inferior of the orbicularis oris. Insertion.— The subcutaneous tissue just above the point of the chin. Structure.—Arising fleshy, its fibres diverge slightly as they pass downwards and inwards to meet in the middle line with those of the opposite side just below a pellet of fat which lies beneath the skin at a short distance above the point of the chin. Nerve-supply.^—The supramaxillary branch of the lower division of the facial nerve, which terminates in this muscle. Action.—To draw upwards the skin covering the prominence of the chin, and to elevate and shoot out the lower lip. It has been sometimes called the viuscukis superhus, from the haughty and contemptuous expression which it produces when it acts at the same time with the depressor anguli oris. A slighter contraction, however, gives the mouth an expression of firmness and decision. Relations.—Superj&cially, the mucous membrane of the mouth and the facial portion of the orbicularis oris above, the subcutaneous fat below ; deeply, the mandible. MUSCLES OF MASTICATION The muscles of mastication form an independent group, four in number, occupying the back part of the side of the face, and the temporal and zygomatic fossae, and consisting of the masseter, the temporal, with the external and internal pterygoid muscles. The temporal muscle is covered by a strong membrane, the temporal fascia, which, arising from the temporal ridge, is attached below to the upper border of the zygoma, after first dividing into two laminae which go to the outer and inner aspects of this border, and contain between them a small quantity of fat. From the zygoma downwards, the masseteric fascia is continued to the posterior and inferior borders of the ramus of the mandible, enveloping the masseter muscle. Closely connected with this is the parotid fascia which envelops this gland, extending backwards from the masseteric fascia to that part of the deep cervical fascia which covers the upper portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; covering also the deep surface of the gland, and giving off a process called the stylo-maxillary ligament, which, running from the styloid process to the angle of the mandible, separates the parotid and submaxillary glands.