SABTOBIUS—QUADBICEPS EXTENSOB FEMOBIS 387 any of these movements, it follows that in flexion of the hip in such movements |i those of running, the knee is at the same time flexed with increased rapidity ; !id again, when the knees are extended by the powerful contraction of the ladriceps muscle, the simultaneous action of the hamstring muscles will produce still more rapid elevation of the trunk. Relations of the semi-membranosus.—Behind, the gluteus maximus, biceps, and mi-tendinosus; in front, the adductor magnus, posterior ligament of knee, and e popliteus. Along its outer border lies the great sciatic nerve, and just before ^ insertion the inner head of the gastrocnemius hooks round this border, being parated from it by a bursa which communicates with the knee joint. There is so usually a small bursa between its tendon and the back of the inner tuberosity the tibia. Variations.—The semi-membranosus has occasionally been deficient, or only represented a thin musculo-tendinons band. It has also been found double. ANTEEIOE MUSCLES OF THE THIGH This group consists of the sartorius and the quadriceps extensor femoris. 1. SAETORIUS This muscle has already been described. ,2. QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR FEMORIS The quadriceps extensor femoris (figs. 287, 289), as its name implies, consists four heads. Of these, one, the rectus, arises from the innominate bone; and le three others, the vastus externus, vastus internus, and crureus, from the femur ; hile the common tendon is inserted into the upper border and sides of the patella. (a) Rectus Femoeis The rectus femoris—named from its long straight course—is strong, fusiform, bd flattened from before backwards; it arises by an anterior and posterior head. Origin.—Anterior head, from the front of the anterior inferior spine of the -um; posterior head, from the upper surface of the rim of the acetabulum just i:ternal to the attachment of the capsular ligament, t Insertion.—The front of the upper border of the patella. } Structure.—This muscle consists of two strong tendinous expansions joined 1^ fleshy fibres. The upper expansion is formed above by the union of the two (ndinous heads in a small arch, which is intimately connected with the capsule of le hip joint. From this arch the tendinous expansion descends upon the front of le muscle as far as the middle of the thigh, getting thinner and narrower as it ascends. The tendon of insertion begins upon the back of the muscle also about le middle of the thigh, and soon expands into a broad aponeurosis which covers |ie back of the muscle at its lower end ; about three inches above the patella, it bcomes free of muscular fibres, and forms a strong tendinous band which is Lserted into the upper border of the patella. The fleshy fibres pass from the back id sides of the upper expansion to the front and sides of the tendon of insertion. c c 2