THE PENIS 1069 i)etweGn the tunica vaginalis and peritoneum. It is frequently patent for a short listance near the internal inguinal ring, and probably accounts in great part for the Insidious development of hernial protrusions in this region. 7. The internal cremaster of Henle. Scattered bundles of smooth muscular ibres, said to represent the inverted lateral bands of the gubernaculum testis. 8. Fat and connective tissue, continuous above with the subperitoneal planes )f fascia. ' I In the scrotum these various structures are invested by coverings identical with ' hose of the testicle. THE PENIS The penis is composed of three rod-like segments of erectile tissue, firmly [mited together and invested by a sheath composed of integument, dartos, and jascia (fig. 627). Of these three erectile segments, two, the corpora cavernosa, are placed side by side above or dorsally; the third, the corpus spongiosum, is perforated in the whole length by the urethral canal, and lies on the ventral aspect of the former, except Ivhere it expands distally to form the free end of the organ (fig. 628). f I The penis as a whole may be divided into a root, a body, and a terminal j enlargement or glans ; the root is attached to the symphysis and pubic arch ; the I )ody, prismatic in section with rounded angles, forms the greater part of the !ree portion of the organ; and the glans is a heart-shaped expansion, more leveloped on its dorsal than on its ventral aspect, and presenting the urethral rifice at its distal extremity. The body and glans are separated by a constriction ialled the neck. The coverings of the penis are continuous with those of the testicle. The skin,, ike that of the scrotum, is pigmented, fatless, and highly elastic. It contains large^ ebaceous glands, which in the neighbourhood of the neck of the organ secrete a^ is^hitish fatty odorous substance, the smegma prseputii. It moves freely upon the jubjacent parts except over the glans, where it is firmly adherent. At the neck it [ecomes peculiarly redundant, and forms a fold, the prepuce, which more or less ompletely conceals the glans. The deeper layer of the duplicature, which is turned owards and is continuous with the skin of the glans, is sometimes erroneously lermed ' mucous membrane.' A small median plication, the frsenum prseputii, jxtends from the prepuce to the lower surface of the glans. This contains vessels of Jome size, and, if ruptured, may give rise to considerable loss of blood.