THE ABTICULATIONS 212 some of the fibres are attached to the deep surface of the ihum and join the inter- osseous hgament. The interosseous ligament is the strongest of all, and consists of fibres of different lengths passing in various directions between the two bones. Immediately! above the interspinous notch of the ilium the fibres of this ligament are very strong, and form an open network, in the interstices of which is a quantity of fat in which the articular vessels ramify. The ear-shaped cartilaginous plate, which unites the bones firmly, is accuratelyj applied to the auricular surfaces of the sacrum and ilium. It is about one-twelfth of an| inch (2 mm.) thick in the centre, but becomes thinner towards the edges. Though closely adherent to the bones, it tears away from one entirely, or partially from both, on the application of violence, sometimes breaking irregularly so that the greater portion remains connected with one bone, leaving the other bone rough and bare. Fig. 207.—Vertical Antero-posterior Section of the Pelvis. It is really one mass, and is only occasionally formed of two plates with a synovia cavity between them : when this is the case the joint becomes an arthrodial one. The great or posterior sacro-sciatic ligament (figs. 206, 207 and 208) is attachec above to the posterior extremity of the crest of the ilium and the external aspect o the posterior ihac spines. From this attachment some of its fibres pass down wards and backwards to be attached to the outer borders and posterior surfaces o the lower three sacral vertebrae and upper two segments of the coccyx ; while others after passing for a certain distance backwards, curve forwards and downward: to the ischium forming the anterior free margin of the ligament v^here it limit! posteriorly the sacro-sciatic foramina. These fibres are joined by others which aris* from the posterior surface of the lower three sacral vertebrae and upper pieces of th( coccyx. At the ischium it is fixed to the inner border of the great tuberosity, an( sends a thin sharp process upwards along the ramus of the ischium which is calle(