THE ABTEBIES 528 THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY The internal carotid (fig. 338) arises with the external carotid at the bifurcation of the common carotid, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, on a level with the fourth cervical vertebra. It is at first placed a little external to the external carotid, but as it ascends in the neck the latter vessel becomes more superficial and in front of it. The internal carotid passes up the neck, in front of Fig. 338.—The Internal Carotid Artery, and Deep Branches of the External Carotid Artery. (From a dissection in the Hunterian Museum.) External carotid artery Temporal artery Internal maxillary artery Transverse facial artery STENSON'S DUCT Superior oblique Splenius capitis, cut Third part of occipital artery Superior eonstrictor Ascending palatine artery Ascending pharyngeal artery External carotid artery, cut short Stylo-pharyngeus Stylo-glossus Facial arterii Digastrieus Posterior auricular i First part of ocdpitc artery Princeps cervicis arU Occipital part of ver artery Inferior oblique S emispinalis icoUi Complexus Ascending cervical i Deep cervical arteri Sterno-mastoid, cut SUBMAXILLARY GLAND Superior thyroid artery Rectus capitis anticus major the transverse processes of the upper cervical vertebrae, to the carotid foramen thence through the carotid canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone.i making at first a turn forwards and inwards and then a second turn upwards, ancj enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum medium. It then makes a sigmoK | curve on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and terminates, after perforating j the dura mater, by dividing opposite the anterior clinoid processes in the fissure o j Sylvius, into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. i In its course up the neck it often forms one or more curves, especially in ol<j people. Between the internal and the external carotids, at their angle of divergence j is situated the intercarotid body, or ganglion intercaroticum. j