THE ABTIGULATIONS 290 medio-tarsal it adducts or abducts the toes without altering the relative position of the calcaneum to the astragalus. Thus flexion at the medio-tarsal joint is associated with adduction and inward rotation of the foot, occurring simultaneously with extension of the ankle; and j extension at the medio-tarsal joint is associated with abduction and outward | rotation, occurring simultaneously with flexion of the ankle. t Flexion and adduction are far more free than extension and abduction, which latter movements are arrested by the ligaments of the sole as soon as the foot is brought into the position in which it rests on the ground. Although the astragalo-scaphoid is a ball-and-socket joint, and might allow motion in any direction, yet, owing to the union of the scaphoid with the cuboid, | movement is limited by the shape of thecalcaneo-cuboid joint, which, being concave-: convex from above downwards, prevents rotation round a vertical axis, and also any side-to-side motion except in a direction obliquely downwards and inwards, and upwards and outwards. This is also the direction of freest movement at the astragalo-scaphoid joint. Movement is also limited by the ligamentous union of the calcaneum with the scaphoid. The twisting movement of the foot, such as turning it upon its inner or outer edge, and the increase or diminution of the arch, take place at the tarsal joints, especially the medio-tarsal and calcaneo-astragaloid articulations. Here too those changes occur which, owing to paralysis of some muscles or contraction of others, result in talipes equino-varus, or valgus. 6. THE TAESO-METATAESAL ARTICULATIONS Class.—Diar^/irosts. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. There may be said to be three articulations between the tarsus and metatarsus, viz : — (a) The Internal, between the inner cuneiform and first metatarsal bones. (h) The Middle, between the three cuneiform and second and third metatarsal bones. (c) The Outer, or cuho-metatarsal, between the cuboid and fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. | The arteries for the tarso-metatarsal joints are derived: (1) for the internal,] from the dorsalis pedis and internal plantar ; (2) for the rest, twigs from the meta- j tarsal and deep plantar arches. j The nerve-supply comes from the anterior tibial and plantar nerves. The movements permitted at these joints are flexion and extension of the| metatarsus on the tarsus ; and at the inner and outer divisions, slight adduction and; abduction. In the outer, the lateral motion is freer than in the inner joint, and freest between the fifth metatarsal bone and the cuboid. In the inner joint, flexion is combined with slight abduction, and extension with adduction. There is also a little gliding, which allows the transverse arch to be increased^ or diminished in depth; the inner and two outer bones sliding downwards, and the two middle a little upwards, when the arch is increased ; and vice versa when the; arch is flattened. i (a) The Internal Taeso-metataesal Joint A complete capsular ligament unites the first metatarsal with the internal cuneiform, the fibres of which are very thick on the under and inner aspects ; those on the outer side pass from behind forwards in the interval between the interosseous ligaments which connect the two bones forming this joint with the second metatarsal. The ligament on the plantar aspect is by far the strongest, and blends at the cuneiform bone with the scapho-cuneiform ligament.