909 EXTEBNAL EAB Helicis major is a narrow slip which arises from a small tubercle, and passes upwards along the rim of the helix to near its summit. Helicis minor is an oblique fasciculus overlying the commencement of the helix. The tragieus consists of nearly vertical fibres lying over the outer surface of the tragus. The antitragicus arises from the outer surface of the antitragus to pass to the caudate process. The transversus auris consists of mixed muscular and tendinous fibres which with the following lies on the cranial aspect of the pinna, and traverses the hollow formed between the bulging of the concha and the convexity corresponding to the groove of the helix. The obliquus auris crosses the hollow between the concha and fossa of the antihelix. Fig. 495.—External and Internal Surface of the Cartilage of the Eight Pinna and its Muscles, etc. Helicis major Obliqmis Transversus Anti-tragicus Tragieus Fissure of Santorini Vessels.—The arteries are the posterior auricular from the external carotid, and the anterior auricular from the temporal. The veins enter the posterior auricular and temporal. Nerves.—The great auricular supplies the cranial aspect, sending a few filaments to the outer surface near the lobule. The posterior auricular of the facial and the auricular branch of the pneumo- gastric also supply the cranial aspect. The auriculo-temporal supplies the outer aspect of the pinna. The tip of the ear at the inner part receives the auricular branch of the small occipital. This is sometimes replaced by a branch from the great occipital. The intrinsic muscles receive their supply from the temporal and posterior auricular branches of the facial. The External Auditory Meatus is about an inch and a quarter in length (3 cm.). It commences at the bottom of the concha, and passes inwards and a little forwards to end at the membrana tympani. It is narrower at its centre. Near its orifice it is oval from above downwards, but at its termination it is somewhat broader from side to side. Owing to the obliquity of the membrana tympani, the floor is longer than the roof, and the anterior longer than the posterior wall of the canal.