THE FALLOPIAN TUBES 1089 ;o the surface of the ovary, and receives the ova which are detached from the gland, iransmitting them to the uterine cavity. It is about four and a half inches in ength, straight, narrow, and somewhat cord-like at its uterine end for a distance )f about an inch and a half; flexuous, and irregularly dilated in the rest of its ength as far as its free extremity, where it becomes expanded into a trumpet- ;haped mouth, fringed by a circle or circles of diverging villous processes or fimbriae, !)ne of which, the fimbria ovarica, or tubo-ovarian ligament, is attached to the )uter extremity of the ovary. One or two little cystic pediculated appendages, like |he hydatid of Morgagni in the testicle, may also be appended to the mouth. The Iperture (ostium abdominale) in the middle of this expansion is very small, not acre than half a line or a line in diameter, but its mucous membrane may be rolonged for some distance along a furrow in the tubo-ovarian ligament. The narrow extremity, or isthmus, has a diameter of about an eighth of an ich, the dilated portion or ampulla measures about a fifth of an inch, and the 3rminal expansion exclusive of its fringes has a width of about a quarter to a tiird of an inch, the free fimbriae ranging in length from two-fifths to three- fths of an inch, while the fimbria ovarica attains an inch or even two inches, ccessory fimbriated extremities are occasionally met with. Fig. 642.—The Broad Ligament and its Contents, seen from the Front. (After Sappey.) PAROVARIUM AMPULLA OF FALLOPIAN TUBE FALLOPIAN TUBE EXTERNAL ANGLE OF UTERUS Ligament of ovary- Anterior peritoneal lamina 1 Position.—The normal position and direction of the ovary is still doubtful, and je course of the duct necessarily shares in this uncertainty. There is, however, reason ■ believe that it does not assume in the living subject the position represented anatomical diagrams. This will be referred to in the description of the ovary. Structure.—The tube has four coats—serous, cellular, muscular, and mucous, le serous coat, represented by the fold at the free border of the broad ligament, incomplete, like that of the small intestine, the muscular tunic being uncovered peritoneum for about one-fourth or one-fifth of its circumference along the te of attachment of the two serous lamina, and hence a rupture of the duct may d to an escape of its contents either into the peritoneal cavity or into the inter- i :ous space. The cellular coat is a kind of adventitia, rich in vessels, and continu- (s with the subperitoneal tissue of the broad ligament. The muscular coat, about h sixtieth of an inch in thickness, consists of circular and longitudinal fibres ; latter for the most part sparingly distributed outside the former, but near the 4 A