OF THE BIBS WITH VEBTEBBjE 219 irst ten ribs) with the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrae, with A^hich the head of the rib articulates : i.e. the one bearing its own number, as )he first rib with the first thoracic vertebra, the second rib with tlie second jhoracic vertebra, and so on. [a) The Costo-centbal Aeticulation Class.—Diartlirosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymo-Arthrodia. It is a very perfect joint, into tire formation of which the head of the rib and Itwo vertebra, with the intervertebral disc between them, enter. In the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, it is formed by the head of the rib articulating with a single vertebra. The ligaments are :— Capsular. Interarticular. Stellate or anterior costo-central. The capsular ligament (fig. 214) consists of short, strong, woolly fibres, com- pletely surrounding the joint, which are attached to the bones and intervertebral substances, a little beyond their articular margins. At its upper part it reaches through the intervertebral foramen towards the back of the bodies of the vertebrae, Fig. 214.—The Capsular Ligaments of the Costo-vertebral Joints. Spinous process of seventh, cervical vertebra Capsular ligament of the first costo- transverse joint Capsular ligament of first costo-eentral joint FIRST RIB being strengthened here by fibres which at intervals connect the anterior with the posterior common ligaments. The lower fibres extend downwards nearly to the demi-facet of the rib below; behind, it is continuous with the middle costo- transverse ligament, and in front is overlaid by the stellate. The interarticular ligament (fig. 215) consists of short, strong fibres, closely interwoven with the outermost ring of the intervertebral disc, and attached to the transverse ridge separating the articular facets on the head of the rib. It com- pletely divides the articulations into two parts, but does not brace the rib tightly to the spine, being loose enough to allow a moderate amount of rotation on its own axis. There is no interarticular ligament in the costo-vertebral joints of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs. The anterior costo-central or stellate ligament (figs. 215 and 216) is the most striking of all, and consists of bright, pearly-white fibres attached to the anterior