THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 780 zone of Lissauer. In the posterior column, two tracts—the cohmms of Goll and Burdach—are found. We shall now proceed to trace these tracts toAvards the brain. As some of them are centripetal and some centrifugal, it would appear more scientific to trace the former brainwards and the latter towards the periphery, following the course of the nerve-current in each case. As, however, the functions and connections of some of these tracts are very imperfectly known, it will be more convenient to trace all of them in an upward, or cerebral, direction, more especially as, while they are tolerably clearly marked off in the spinal cord, their connections become very complicated when they enter the brain. The pyramidal tracts are the best defined in their course and connections, and may be described first. The larger or lateral pyramidal tract is placed in the Fig. I, II, III, IV, anterior root 440.—Diagram of the Tracts or the Spinal Cord and of the Deep Origins of the Spinal Nerves. The motor tracts are indicated by red shading, the sensory by blue. V, VI, VII, posterior root. BURDACH'S COLUMN GOLL'S COLUMN SUBSTANTIA GELATINOSA ROLANDI BOUNDARY ZONE OF LISSA UER LATERAL PYRAMIDAL TRACT DIRECT CEREBELLAR TRACT GOWER'S TRACT MIXED LATERAL ZONE AND ANTERIOR GROUND BUNDLE LATERAL GROUND BUNDLE {SENSORY PORTION) LATERAL GROUND BUNDLE {MOTOR PORTION) ANTERIOR PYRAMIDAL TRACT hinder part of the lateral column. The anterior pyramidal tract, very much the smaller, forms the innermost part of the anterior column. The fibres of the ante- rior nerve-roots, on entering the cord, suffer an interruption in the ganglion cells of the anterior horn of grey matter, but afterwards pass into the lateral pyramidal tract. The greater number ascend in this tract as far as the decussation of the pyramids, but a certain (variable) number pass through the anterior white com- missure to the opposite side of the cord, and ascend in the anterior pyramidal tract. At the decussation of the pyramids the fibres of the lateral pyramidal tract pass to the opposite side in coarse bundles, cutting through the neck of the anterior horn of grey matter, and join the fibres of the anterior pyramidal tract, which, it will be remembered, have already decussated, vid the anterior commissure, lower down. Thus all the fibres derived from the anterior roots pass to the opposite side of the body. It is right to mention, however, that ' recrossed fibres ' have recently been described by Sherrington—that is to say, fibres which, having decussated via