845 INTERCOSTAL NEBVES terminate as the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. In this course they give off muscular branches to the levatores costarum, serratus posticus superior, external and internal intercostals, and triangularis sterni. Each nerve also gives off two cutaneous branches—namely, the lateral and anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax pierce the external intercostal muscles, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. These branches pass between the digitations of the serratus magnus, and are separated by an interval of about half an inch, when they appear on the superficial surface of that muscle. The anterior branches run forwards, cross the lower border of the great pectoral, and supply the integuments which cover the lower and outer portion of that muscle, and give twigs to the mammary gland. They decrease progressively in size from the sixth to the third. In the case of the second lateral cutaneous nerve, the anterior branch is usually wanting. The posterior branches turn backwards, and supply the skin covering the outer part of the latissimus dorsi and the inferior angle of the scapula. The lateral cutaneous branches of the second and third intercostal nerves are larger than the others, and require separate notice. The lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve is called the intercosto-humeral nerve. It passes outwards across the axillary space, and crosses the tendon of the latissimus dorsi to reach the arm. It is distributed to the integument of the inner and posterior part of the arm in its upper two-thirds. Within the axilla it communi- cates with the lesser internal cutaneous nerve of the brachial plexus, and with the lateral cutaneous branch of the third intercostal. The lateral cutaneous branch of the third intercostal divides into a small anterior and a large posterior branch. The anterior branch ends near the margin of the great pectoral muscle. The posterior branch communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve, and then turns round the posterior fold of the axilla, and, after giving a twig to the integument of the arm, ends in the skin covering the dorsum of the scapula. The anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax are the terminal branches of the upper intercostal nerves. They pierce the pectoralis major in company with the perforating branches of the internal mammary artery. On reaching the surface of the muscle, they give off minute twigs, which supply the skin over the sternum, and then end in slender branches which are directed outwards to supply the skin cover- ing the greater part of the pectoralis major. Some tAvigs from the third and fourth nerves are distributed to the mammary gland. C. Lower intercostal nerves.—The seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh intercostal nerves, in the part of their course which lies between the ribs, present the same relations as the upper intercostal nerves. On emerging from between the ribs, they pass forwards between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and usually communicate with one another in a plexiform manner in this situation. They then pierce the outer edge of the sheath of the rectus, and, after supplying the rectus, pass through the muscular substance and pierce the anterior part of the sheath, where they end as the anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen. Branches.—The lower intercostal nerves supply the external and internal inter- costal muscles, the levatores costarum, the serratus posticus inferior, the internal obhque, the transversalis, and the rectus. They also give off' lateral cutaneous branches, by which the external obhque is supplied. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen are the continuation of the series of the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax. They divide into anterior and posterior branches, which pierce the external oblique. The anterior branches are directed forwards and somewhat downwards, and supply the integument covering the anterior abdominal wall as far as the outer margin of the rectus. Each nerve gives off' a muscular twig, which pierces the adjacent digitation of the external oblique muscle on its superficial surface. The posterior branches pass backwards around the margin of the latissimus dorsi, and end in the skin of the outer part of the back.