302 THE MUSCLES as to fix some of the joints, and enable the muscle to act solely upon others. For example, when the muscles arising above the wrist are used to extend the phalanges of the fingers, it will be found that some of the flexors of the carpus I contract so as to fix the wrist. Similarly, if the fingers are flexed in grasping an } object, it is easy to feel the tendons of the carpal extensors starting up into firm ! contraction. | Occasionally the passage of a muscle over two joints is used to obtain very smft i and vigorous action. For example, if the long head of the triceps, which extends from i the axillary border of the shoulder-blade to the olecranon process, were replaced i by an inextensible ligament, which should be tight with the arm down and the I elbow flexed, the elevation of the humerus by the deltoid muscle would necessitate I a corresponding extension of the elbow. Now put in the place of the inextensible i ligament an actively contracting muscle, and it is clear that the combination of this I elevation of the arm by the deltoid with contraction of the triceps will produce a I much more rapid extension of the elbow, such as is seen in throwing a spear or a | stone. ! MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY \ The first group consists of those which, arising from various parts of the head,' neck, and trunk, are inserted into the bones of the shoulder girdle, viz. the clavicle ; and scapula, or into the humerus. Of this group there are two divisions : the one ! comprising the muscles which take their origin from the back of the head, neck,' and trunk; the other, those which arise from the front and sides of the thorax. POSTEEIOE DIVISION OF THE GEOUP OF MUSCLES PASS- ING FEOM THE TEUNK TO THE UPPEE EXTEEMITY. I This division consists of two layers, which lie superficial to the proper back i muscles. Overlying these layers is, firstly, the superficial fascia, which is strong ! and well provided with fat, and is continuous with that of the head, neck, axilla, : and other adjacent regions ; and, secondly, the deep fascia, which is thin and forms ! the sheath of the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles. Above and in front, the j deep fascia is continuous with the deep cervical fascia ; lower down, with the axillary j fascia, and that covering the thoracic and abdominal parietes. Internally it is attached | to the spines of the vertebrae, and below it blends with the lumbar aponeurosis. First Layer Consisting of one muscle—the trapezius. THE TRAPEZIUS The trapezius (or cucuUaris, as it has been called from its resemblance to a j cowl = cucullus) is named from rpaTre^a, a table, on account of the four-sided | figure formed by the muscles of the two sides. It is a fan-shaped sheet forming an obtuse-angled triangle, the long side of which corresponds with the spine. Origin.—(1) The inner third of the superior nuchal line of the occipital bone, '