THE EYE 1121 n the nasal side of the sac. The manipulation of a probe along the lachrymal lassages should thus be practised :—The lower lid being drawn outwards and ownwards by the thumb, the probe is passed vertically into the punctum, then urned horizontally and passed on till it reaches the inner wall of the sac. It is lien raised vertically, and pushed steadily along the duct downwards, and a little utwards and backwards, till the floor of the nose is reached. THE MOUTH On the floor, on either side of the fraenal fold of mucous membrane, are the ifices of Wharton's ducts, marked by minute papillae. In dividing the fraenum r tongue-tie, the scissors should be kept close to the bone, so as to avoid the ranine ssels. Of these, the ranine vein can be seen beneath the mucous membrane ; the tery lies close to it, but deeper. Two diverging folds indicate the position of these Fig. 668.—Side of the Face and Mouth Cavity, showing the Three Salivary Glands. the totisiii 0} SOCIA PAROTIDIS DUCT OF SOCIA PAROTIDIS DUCT OF PAROTID ristle inserted into duet raenum linguae DUCT OF RIVINI JBLINGUAL GLAND PAROTID GLAND Sterno-mastoid muscle Posterior belly of digastric muscle SUBMAXILLARY GLAND, DRAWN BACKWARDS Loop of fascia CT OF SUBMAXILLARY GLAND Mylo-hyoid muscle Anterior belly of digastric muscle DEEP PORTION OF SUBMAXILLARY GLAND^ ssels farther back, and contain the sublingual glands Dilatation of the latter Dm obliteration of a Rivinian duct, more frequently dilatation of a muciparous imd—and much more rarely dilatation of Wharton's duct—constitutes a ' ranula.' le submaxillary gland can be felt nearer the angle of the jaw lying between its 3sa and the mucous membrane, especially if pressure is made from outside. 16 attachment of the genio-hyo-glossi can be felt behind the symphysis: the I i^ision of it allows the tongue to come well out of the mouth; but when both ve to be divided, the tongue loses much of its steadiness, and may easily fall [ck over the larynx during the administration of the anaesthetic or, later on, in !ep. It should therefore be secured forwards for a while with silk. When the 4C