208 THE ABTICULATIONS ligaments, but it depends partly upon the width of the bodies of the vertebras, and partly upon the depth of the discs, so that in the loins, where the bodies are large and wide, and the discs very thick, free motion is permitted ; while, though the discs are thinner in the cervical region, yet, as the bodies are smaller, almost equally free motion is allowed. As the ball-like pulpy part of the intervertebral disc is the centre of movement of each vertebra, it is obvious that the motion would be of a rolling character in any direction but for the articular processes, which serve also to give steadiness to the column and to assist in bearing the superincumbent weight. Were it not for these processes, the column, instead of being a stationary one, endowed with the capacity of movement by muscular agency, would be a tottering one, requiring muscles to steady it. The influence of the articular processes in limiting the direction of inclination will appear from a study of the movements in the three regions of the spine. In the neck, the obliquity of the processes permits all movements, but is especially favourable for extension. Flexion is less free here than in the lumbar region, while extension is more so. Lateral fiexion is more free in the neck than in any other region. Rotatory movements are also free in the neck, especially' in the lower part. There is but slight movement of any sort between the axis and third cervical vertebra, owing to the shallow intervertebral disc and the great i prolongation of the anterior lip of the inferior surface of the body of the axis, ■ which checks forward flexion considerably. In the thoracic region, especially near its middle, antero-posterior flexion and extension are very slight; and, as the concavity of the curve here is forwards, the flat and nearly vertical surfaces of the articular processes prevent anything like sliding in a curvilinear manner of the one set of processes over the sharp upper edges of the other, which would be necessary for forward flexion. A fair amount i of lateral flexion would be permitted but for the impediment offered by the ribs;; while the slightly outward inclination of the superior process, and inward inclina-i tion of the inferior, allow a little rotation, which is freer in the upper than in the I lower part of the thoracic region. I In the lumbar region, extension and flexion are very free, especially between j the third and fourth, and fourth and fifth vertebrae, where the lumbar curve is j sharpest ; lateral inclination is also very free between these same vertebrae. It | has been stated that the shape and position of the articular processes of the lumbar: and the lower two or three dorsal are such as to prevent any rotation in these i regions; but, owing to the fact that the inferior articular processes are not tightly embraced by the superior, so that the two sets of articular processes are not in contact on both sides of the bodies at the same time, there is always some space in j which horizontal motion can occur round an axis drawn through the central part i of the bodies and intervertebral discs. Thus, the motions are most free in those i regions of the column which have a convex curve forwards, due to the shape of the \ intervertebral discs, where there are no bony walls surrounding solid viscera, where' the spinal canal is largest and its contents are less firmly attached, and where the i pedicles and articular processes are more nearly on a transverse level with the j backs of the bodies of the vertebrae ; Nor must the uses of the ligamenta subflava be forgotten : these useful little structures (1) complete the roofing-in of the spinal canal, and yet at the same time l permit an ever-changing variation in the width of the interlaminar spaces in flexion and extension; (2) they also restore the articulating surfaces to their normal posi-1 tion with regard to each other after movements of the column ; (3) and by forming ! the inner portion of each capsular ligament they take the place of muscle, in pre-] venting it from being nipped between the articular surfaces during movement.