173 THE ASTBAGALUS rains at the seventh month of embryonic hfe. The additional centre is deposited n the posterior portion of the bone, and forms tliat part of the astragahis which, tvhen it remains separate from the rest of the bone, is known as the os trigonum. A.t birth, the astragahis presents some important pecuharities in the disposition of she articular facet on the tibial side of its body, and in the obliquity of its neck. If, in the adult astragalus, a line be drawn through the middle of the trochlear surface parallel with its inner border, and a second line be drawn along the outer ide of the neck of the bone so as to intersect the first, the angle formed by these wo lines will express the obliquity of the neck of the bone. This in the adult varies Fig. 171.—An Astragalus with the Os Teigonum. OS TRIGONUM greatly, but the average may be taken as 10°. In the foetus at birth the angle averages 35°, whilst in a young orang it measures 45°. In the normal adult astra- galus the articular surface on the tibial side is limited to the body of the bone. In the foetal astragalus it extends for some distance on to the neck, and some- times reaches almost as far forward as the scaphoid facet on the head of the bone. This disposition of the inner malleolar facet is a characteristic feature of the astragalus in the chimpanzee and the orang. It is related to the inverted position of the foot which is found in the human embryo to near the period of birth, and is of interest to the surgeon in connection with some varieties of club-foot. (Shattock and Parker.) THE CALCANEUM The calcaneum, or os calcis, is the largest tarsal bone. It is cuboidal in shape, and presents, for examination, six surfaces. The superior surface has in its middle a large, oval, convex, articular facet for the under aspect of the body of the astralagus ; behind the facet, the bone is rough and convex laterally. In front of the facet the bone presents a deep depres- sion, the floor of which is rough for the attachment of ligaments, especially the calcaneo-astragaloid, and the origin of the extensor hrevis digitorum muscle; when the calcaneum and astragalus are articulated, this portion of the bone forms a floor to a cavity sometimes called the sinus pedis. Internally, this upper surface of the bone presents a well-marked lip, the sustentaculum tali, furnished with an elon- gated concave facet, occasionally divided into two, for articulation with the neck of the astragalus.