SUBOCCIPITALS 451 8. OBLIQUUS CAPITIS INFERIOR The obliquus capitis inferior (fig. 308)—named from its direction and position -is a fusiform sheet. Origin.—The upper part of the side of the spine of the axis. Insertion.—The lower part of the tip of the transverse process of the atlas. Structure.—Strong and fleshy, with pointed extremities, and a general direction ^wards and outwards. Nerve-supply.—The suboccipital, which sends branches to its upper border. Action.—Chiefly to rotate the atlas, and with it the head, to the same side. It ill also help in extension and lateral flexion of the atlas upon the axis. Relations.—Behind, the complexus and the great occipital nerve, which winds mnd its lower border ; in front, the posterior atlanto-axial ligament and vertebral :tery. 4. OBLIQUUS CAPITIS SUPERIOR The obliquus capitis superior (fig. 308)—named from its direction and position ■is flat and triangular. Origin.—The back of the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas. I Insertion.—The impression immediately behind the outer half of the inferior ichal line of the occipital bone. Structure.—Of fleshy fibres which diverge fanwise upwards and inwards. I Nerve-supply.—The suboccipital, which supplies it at the inner part of its deep .rface. Action.—To extend and slightly to flex laterally the head. I Relations.—Behind, the complexus and splenius capitis; in front, the rectus ,pitis posticus major, vertebral artery, and posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. 5. RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS The rectus capitis lateralis (fig. 315)—named from its direction and position- la quadrilateral sheet, and corresponds to the intertransversales posteriores of the rtebrae beloAV. I Origin.—The front of the upper surface of the lateral mass of the atlas. Insertion.—The under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. Structure.—Fleshy, with parallel vertical fibres. Nerve-supply.—The anterior branch of the first cervical nerve which passes out iernal to it, and supplies it from the front. Action.—To flex the head laterally. I Relations.—In front, the anterior primary branch of the first cervical nerve, and I internal jugular vein ; behind, the obliquus superior and the trachelo-mastoid. j Variations.—Occasionally the short muscles of this group are double. Small slips of nscle have been observed, running from the spines of the lower cervical vertebrse, or the Umentum nuchse to the occipital bone. GG 2