835 BBANCHES OF BBACHIAL PLEXUS (6) The scaleni and (7) longus colli are supplied by twigs which arise from the lower three cervical nerves immediately after their exit from the intervertebral foramina. Bkanches given off below the Clavicle The AXILLARY or SHORT BRANCHES are (1) the external and (2) internal anterior thoracic, and (3) the three subscapular nerves. (1) The external anterior thoracic nerve arises from the outer cord of the plexus, and, after communicating with the internal anterior thoracic, ends in branches which supply the pectoralis major. (2) The internal anterior thoracic nerve arises from the inner cord and passes forwards between the first stage of the axillary artery and the axillary vein. It gives branches to the pectoralis minor, some of which pass through the latter muscle and end in the great pectoral. The nerve then unites with a branch from the external anterior thoracic, and forms a loop which is placed in front of the first stage of the axillary artery. From this loop additional branches are furnished to the greater pectoral muscle. (3) The subscapular nerves are branches of the posterior cord. They are three in number, are distinguished as upper, middle, and lower, and are distributed to the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. {a) The upper or short subscapular nerve is distributed exclusively to the sub- scapularis muscle. It is occasionally double. I ih) The middle or long subscapular nerve accompanies the subscapular artery \ along the axillary margin of the subscapularis muscle and ends in the latissimus dorsi. (c) The lower subscapular nerve is distributed to the teres major and furnishes one or two twigs to the subscapularis. These tmgs enter the subscapularis near the axillary margin of that muscle. TERMINAL OR LONG BRANCHES.—These are given off as follows : from the outer ; cord, the musculo-cutaneous and the outer head of the median; from the inner cord, the inner head of the median, the ulnar, the internal cutaneous, and the lesser ^ internal cutaneous ; from the posterior cord, the musculo-spiral and the circumflex nerves. The circumflex, lesser internal cutaneous, internal cutaneous, and musculo- ' cutaneous are more proximal in their distribution than the median, ulnar, and musculo-spiral, and may therefore be first described. I (1) The circumflex nerve is a branch of the posterior cord, and is composed of fibres derived from the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves. It accom- panies the posterior circumflex artery through the quadrilateral space bounded by the teres major, long head of triceps and subscapularis muscles and by the surgical : neck of the humerus, and divides into a smaller posterior and a larger anterior : division. Previous to its division it furnishes an articular twig to the shoulder j joint. This twig pierces the inferior part of the capsular ligament. {a) The anterior division accompanies the posterior circumflex artery around the neck of the humerus, and gives off a number of stout twigs which enter the deltoid muscle. A few fine filaments pierce the deltoid and end in the integument which covers the middle third of that muscle. {h) The posterior division divides into a cutaneous and a muscular branch. The cutaneous branch supplies the skin covering the lower third of the deltoid and \ a small area of integument below the insertion of that muscle. The muscular I branch is distributed to the teres minor ; it swells out into an ovoid or fusiform reddish gangliform enlargement before perforating the muscle. I (2) The lesser internal cutaneous nerve, or nerve of Wrisberg, arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, and is formed of fibres derived from the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves or from the first thoracic nerve alone. It runs down- wards on the inner side of the axillary vein, being separated by that vessel from the 3 H 2 I