THE ABTICULATIONS 224 Deeper than the fibres of these Hgaments are short fibres passmg from the margins of the sternal facets to the edges of the facets on the cartilages ; they are most distmct m the front and lower part of the joint, and may encroach so much upon the synovial cavity as to reduce it to a very small size, or almost obliterate it. This occurs mostly in the case of the sixth and seventh joints, especially the latter. The interarticular ligament (fig. 217) is by no means constant, but is usually present in the second joint on one, if not on both sides of the same subject. It consists of a strong transverse bundle of fibres passing from the ridge on the facet on the cartilage to the symphysial substance between the manubrium and body ; sometimes the upper part of the synovial cavity is partially or entirely obliterated by short, fine, ligamentous fibres. The chondro-xiphoid lig^ament (fig. 217) is a strong flat band of fibres passing obliquely upwards and outwards from the front surface of the xiphoid cartilage to the anterior surface of the sternal end of the seventh costal cartilage, and most frequently to that of the sixth also. Synovial membranes.—The union of the first cartilage with the sternum being synarthrodial, it has no synovial membrane ; the second has usually two, separated by the interarticular ligament. The rest usually have one synovial membrane, which may occasionally be subdivided into two (fig. 217). The arterial supply is derived from perforating branches of the internal mammary ; and the nerves come from the anterior branches of the intercostals. Movements.—Excepting the first, the chondro-sternal joints are ginglymoid, but the motion of which they are capable is very limited. It consists of a hinge- like action in two directions : first, there is a small amount of elevation and depression which takes place round a transverse axis; and, secondly, there is some forward and backward movement round an obliquely vertical axis. In inspira- tion the cartilage is elevated, and the lowest part of its articular facet is pressed into the sternal socket, and the sternum is thrust forwards so that the upper and front edges of the articular cartilages separate a little ; in expiration the reverse movement takes place. Thus the two extremities of the costal arches move in their respective sockets in opposite directions. This difterence results necessarily from the fact that the costal arch moves upon the vertebral column, and, having been elevated, it in its turn elevates the sternum by pushing it upwards and forwards. AVere this not the case, the sternum would be depressed by the elevation of the costal arches. The chondro-xiphoid ligament tends to prevent the xiphoid cartilage being drawn backwards by the action of the diaphragm. (h) The Costo-chondeal Joints Class.—Synarthros is. The extremity of the costal cartilage is received into a cup-shaped depression at the end of the rib, which is somewhat larger than the cartilage. The two are joined together by the continuity of the investing membranes, the periosteum of the rib being continuous with the perichondrium of the cartilage, much in the same way as the epiphyses of the bones are joined to their shafts. (c) The Union of the Segments of the Steenum with one anothee The union of the manubrium with the gladiolus may be either an amphi- arthrodial or diarthrodial joint. In a certain number of cases there is a true amphiarthrodial joint, with true fibro-cartilage (fig. 217) between the bones. In other cases each segment of bone is tipped with cartilage as in diarthrodial joints.