THE ABTICULATIONS 264 The arterial supply comes from (a) the transverse branches of the mternal and external circmnflex arteries ; ( b) the external branch of the obturator sends a branch through the cotyloid notch beneath the transverse ligament, which ramifies in the fat at the bottom of the acetabulum, and travels down the round ligament to the head of the femur ; (c) the inferior branch of the dee]) division of the gluteal; and {d) the sciatic arteries. The nerve-supply comes from (a) anterior crural, {b) anterior division of the obturator, (c) the accessory obturator, and [d] the sacral plexus, either by a twig from the nerve to the quadratus femoris, or from the upper part of the great sciatic or the lower part of the sacral plexus. The muscles in relation with the hip-joint are : in front, the psoas, which is separated from the capsule by a bursa, and the iliacus, which in part arises froir \ the capsule ; above are the straight and reflected tendons of the rectus, the re- flected tendon being enclosed between the layers of the capsule, and a band whict passes down from the reflected tendon to the vastus externus ; also the gluteui minimus, which is closely adherent to the capsule; above and behind are th( pyriformis, which sometimes sends a slip into the capsule ; the internal obturator which acts as a powerful strap to the back of the joint, and the two gemelli ; beloTX and behind is the external obturator, passing over the capsule,—a dense band o fibro-cellular tissue connects the sheath of the obturator externus with the capsuL along the posterior edge of the muscle ; internally is the pectineus. The movements.—The hip joint, like the shoulder, is a ball-and-socket joint but with a much more complete socket and a corresponding limitation of move ment. Each variety of movement is permitted, viz. flexion, extension, abduction adduction, circumduction, and rotation ; and any two or more of these movement not being antagonistic can be combined, i.e. flexion or extension associated witl abduction or adduction can be combined with rotation in or out. It results from the obliquity of the neck of the femur that the movements o| the head in the acetabulum are always more or less of a rotatory character. Thi' is more especially the case during flexion and extension, and two results follo"V; from it. First, the bearing surfaces of the femur and acetabulum preserve thei apposition to each other, so that the amount of articular surface of the head in th acetabulum does not sensibly diminish i^ari passu with the transit of the join from the extended to the flexed position, as would be the case necessarily if th movement of the femoral head, like that of the thigh itself, was simply angulai instead of rotatory and angular. Secondly, as rotation of the head can continuj until the ligaments are tight without being checked by contact of the neck of th thigh bone against the rim of the acetabulum, flexion of the thigh as far as th joint is concerned is practically unlimited. Flexion is the most important, mos frequent, and most extensive movement, and in the dissected limb, before th| ligaments are disturbed, can be carried to 160°, and is then checked by the lowej fibres of the ischio-femoral ligament. In the living subject simple flexion cai continue until checked by the contact of the soft parts at the groin, if the knee b bent; if the knee be straight, flexion of the hip is checked in most persons by th hamstring muscles at nearly the right angle. This is very evident on trying td touch the ground with the fingers without bending the knees, the chief straiii being felt at the popliteal space. This is due to the shortness of the hamstring£| Extension is limited by the ilio-femoral ligament. I Abduction and outward rotation can be performed freely in every position oj flexion and extension—abduction being limited by the pectineo-femoral ligament i outward rotation by the ilio-femoral ligament, especially its inner portion, durin^i extension ; but by the outer portion, as well as by the ligamentum teres, durinfj flexion. j Adduction and inward rotation are very limited in the extended thigh j i I