108 THE SKELETON inferior border. The groove is best marked near the angle, and lodges the intercostal vessels and nerves. The ridge limiting the groove above is continuous with the inferior border of the neck of the rib ; it gives attachment to the internal intercostal muscles. The superior border is rounded, and affords attachment to the internal and external intercostal muscles. The inferior border commences abruptly near the angle, and gives attachment to the external intercostal muscles. The sternal end of the shaft is cupped for the reception of the costal cartilage. The seventh rib and its costal cartilage give attachment to the following muscles:— Internal intercostals (sixth and seventh). External intercostals (sixth and seventh). Levatores costarum (sixth and seventh). Infracostal (when present). Diaphragm. Transversalis. External oblique abdominis. Rectus abdominis (costal cartilage). Triangularis sterni (costal cartilage). Pectoralis major (costal cartilage). Serratus magnus. Ilio-costalis, or sacro-lumbalis. Musculus accessorius. Longissimus dorsi. It gives attachment to the following lig^aments :— Anterior costo-vertebral (stellate). Anterior costo-transverse. Middle costo-vertebral (interosseous). Posterior costo-transverse (rhomboid). Interosseous of rib-head. Blood-supply.—The ribs are very vascular and derive numerous branches from the intercostal arteries. The branches in the shaft run towards the rib-head. Those of the head and neck take a contrary direction, and run, as a rule, towards the shaft. In the neighbourhood of the tuberosity the vessels seem to run in any direction. Peculiar ribs.—Several of the ribs differ in many particulars from this general description. They are the first, second, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first rib is the broadest and most sharply curved. The head is small, and, as a rule, is furnished with the only one' articular facet. The tubercle is large and prominent, the neck narrow. The shaft is broad, has no angle, and is curved around a vertical axis only. The anterior surface presents two shallow grooves separated near the superior border by a rough surface (Lisfranc's tubercle) for the scalenus anticus muscle. The groove in front of this surface is for the subclavian vein, the groove behind it is for the subclavian artery. Between the groove for the artery and the tubercle there is a rough surface for the scalenus meclkis muscle ; anterior to this rough surface and close beside the groove is an area from v.^hich the first digitation of the serratus magnus takes origin. The under surface is smooth and lacks a groove. The inferior border is thick, and rounded for the internal and external intercostal muscles. The costal cartilage of this rib fuses with the manubrium of the sternum; occasionally the sternal extremity and costal cartilage of this rib are replaced by fibrous tissue. When a well-developed cervical rib is present, the head of the first may present two facets as in a typical rib. The first rib, with its costal cartilage, gives attachment to the following muscles:— Internal intercostal. Subclavius (costal cartilage). External intercostal. Sterno-hyoid (costal cartilage). Levator costas. Pectorahs major (costal cartilage). Scalenus anticus. Serratus magnus. Scalenus medius. Musculus accessorius.