THE ETHMOID 55 The ethmoidal cells occupy the space between the os planum and the turbinals; they are divided by a thin septum into an anterior and posterior set. The cells are imperfect in the ethmoid, they require the juxtaposition of other bones to make them complete. Above, they are closed by the horizontal plate of the frontal, posteriorly by the sphenoidal turbinal and the orbital process of the palate, inferiorly by the maxilla, and anteriorly by the lachrymal. The anterior set communicate with the frontal cells above, whilst below they open into the middle meatus of the nose by a sinuous canal, the infundibulum. The posterior cells open into the superior meatus, and occasionally communicate with the sphenoidal cells. The cells are sometimes divided into groups, according to the bone which hes in immediate juxtaposition. Those along the superior edge are the fronto- ethmoidal; those beneath the lachrymal, lachrymo-ethmoidal, usually two in number. Those along the lower edge are the maxillo-ethmoidal; and posteriorly there are the spheno-ethmoidal, completed by the sphenoidal-turbinals, and a palato-ethmoidal cell. Articulations.—The ethmoid articulates with the frontal, sphenoid, two palate Tig. 64.— Section through the Nasal Fossa to show the Lateral Mass OF the Ethmoid. SPHENO- bones, two nasals, vomer, two inferior turbinals, the sphenoidal turbinals, two maxillse, and two lachrymal bones. The hinder surface of each lateral mass comes into relation with the sphenoid on each side of the crest and rostrum, and helps to close in the sphenoidal sinus. Blood-supply.—The anterior and posterior ethmoidal, and from the nasal or spheno-palatine branch of the internal maxillary. Ossification.—The ethmoid has three centres of ossification. Of these, a nucleus appears in the fourth month of intra-uterine life in each lateral cartilage. At birth this bone is represented by two scroll-like bones, very delicate, and covered with irregular depressions, which give it a worm-eaten appearance. Six months afterbirth a nucleus appears in the ethmo-vomerine plate for-the mesethmoid. This gradually extends into the crista galli. During the third year the lateral masses and the mesethmoid (perpendicular plate) ankylose. The cribriform plate is derived from the lateral masses. The ethmoidal cells do not make their appearance before the third year, and they gradually produce attenuation of the lateral masses. In many places there is