THE NOSE 929 Muscles.—The muscles are seven in number, and may be grouped as dilators and constrictors. The latter are comparatively feeble in their action. The dilators.—The pyramidalis nasi is a downward prolongation of the occipito- frontalis. Each muscle descends on the side of the nose, to blend, after becoming tendinous, with the compressor nasi. They diverge from one another as they pass downwards. The levator labii superioris alaeque nasi arises from the nasal process of the maxilla. It divides in its passage downwards, one slip being inserted into the cartilage of the wing, the other extending to the upper lip to blend with its muscular fibres. The two foregoing muscles may be regarded as extraordinary or reserve muscles of dilatation. Fig. 515.—Section showing Bony and Cartilaginous Septum. The dotted line indicates the course of the anterior palatine canal. NASAL BONE Prontal sinus UPPER LATERAL CARTILAGE G-roove between septal i and upper lateral cartilage Splienoidal sinus LOWER LATERAL THICKENED BORDER OF CARTILAGE RESTING UPON ANTERIOR NASAL SPINE Incisive papilla Poucli at upper extremity / \ of Stenson's canal SOFT PALATE SEPTAL CARTILAGE ORIFICE OF EUSTACHIAN TUBE The dilator naris consists of two small muscular slips, requiring a lens for jtheir proper demonstration ; in some cases they are absent. i The dilator naris anterior is a small and indistinct muscle. It is placed I between the skin and cartilage of the ala. I The dilator naris posterior arises from the edge of the nasal notch of the I maxilla and the sesamoid cartilages, to be inserted into the margin of the nostril. In paralysis of the facial nerve, a deep inspiration through the nostril produces complete collapse of its cartilaginous wall, thus showing the importance of the dilator muscles in keeping patent the nasal orifices. The constrictors, or compressors.—The compressor naris arises from the maxilla near the incisive fossa, its fibres mixing Avith those of the levator anguli oris. It expands as it passes inwards, to end in a thin aponeurosis, which 3 0