1146 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY left nipple line. The level of the upper border varies also with position, respiratioi etc. It may be represented, on the right, by a line drawn about one inch below tfc nipple, along- the seventh rib, towards the middle line, the fifth chondro-sterna joint, and the sterno-xiphoid articulation (or central tendon of the diaphragm) on the left side it does not reach quite so high : thus its level would be marke by the sixth chondro-sternal joint. Behind, the liver would be below the ba^ of the right lung, on a level with the tenth thoracic spine (figs. 718, 719, ar 720). Gall-bladder.—The fundus of this, situated in a fossa on the under surface ( the right lobe of the liver, and having the quadrate lobe to its left, lies opposi to the right ninth costal cartilage, close to the outer edge of the rectus. It is contact with the hepatic flexure of the colon and the first piece of the duodenum. Stomach.—This organ varies in position more than any other, owing to i mobility, save at the cardiac orifice, and to its varying distension. When empty ai Fig. 091.—Section of Abdomen between the Third and Fourth Lumbar Vertebra. (Braune.) UMBILICUS Keetus SYMPATHETIC TRANSVERSE COLON \ GREAT OMENTUM URETER / Transversalis Internal oblique External oblique ASCENDING COLON DESCENDING COLON Quadratus lumborum Psoas ARTICULAR PROCESS OF THIRD LUMBAR / Quadratus INTERVERTEBRAL CARTILAGE contracted, it lies far back in the abdomen, under the left lobe of the liver, and front of the pancreas. When much distended, its pyloric end moves to the rig and the organ comes forwards, pushing against the liver and abdominal wall; a upwards, against the diaphragm, and thus against the heart and left lung, moderately distended, the cardia will be found under the seventh left chond sternal joint, about one inch beyond the sternum. The pylorus is very mobile, 1 a spot near the end of the cartilage of the eighth rib will denote it with sufficif accuracy. It is on a deeper plane than the cardia. By joining these two poi with lines representing the lesser and greater curvatures, the stomach can marked out (figs. 718, 719). The usual inaccuracies committed in delineat. the stomach are as follows : The viscus is marked too horizontally—stude: forget its oblique position. The greater curvature and fundus are not marked h: enough on the left side. They are placed high up under the left arch of diaphragm, well to the left of the middle line, as high as the sixth chondro-ster joint. The lesser curvature is usually made too curved and too horizontal. (Shei.