155 THE FELVIS THE PELVIS The pelvis is composed of four bones : the two hip-bones, the sacrum, and coccyx. The hip-bones form the lateral and anterior boundaries, meeting each other to form the pubic symphysis ; posteriorly they are separated by the sacrum. The hollow of the pelvis is divided into the false and true pelvic cavity. The false pelvis is that part of the cavity which lies above the ilio-pectineal lines ; this part is in relation with the hypogastric and inguinal regions. The true pelvis is situated below the ilio-pectineal lines. The upper circum- ference, called also the inlet of the pelvis, is bounded anteriorly by the spine and crest of the pubes, posteriorly by the base of the sacrum, and laterally by the ilio- pectineal lines. The inlet in normal pelves is cordate, being obtusely pointed in front ; posteriorly it is encroached upon by the promontory of the sacrum. It has three principal diameters : of these, the antero-posterior, called the conjugate diameter, is measured from the sacro-vertebral angle to the symphysis. The trans- FiG. 159.—The Pelvis (Male). verse diameter represents the greatest width of the pelvic cavity. The oblique is measured from the sacro-iliac synchondrosis to the ilio-pubal ridge. The cavity of the true pelvis is bounded in front by the symphysis pubis, behind by the sacrum and coccyx, and laterally by a smooth wall of bone formed in part by the ilium, in part by the ischium ; it corresponds to the acetabulum. The cavity is shallow in front, where it is formed by the pubes, and is deepest posteriorly. The lower circumference, or outlet, of the pelvis is very irregular, and encroached upon by three bony processes : the posterior process is the coccyx, and the two lateral processes the ischial tuberosities. They separate three notches. The anterior is the pubic arch, and is bounded on each side by the conjoined rami of the pubes and ischium on each side. The two remaining gaps correspond to the greater and lesser sciatic notches ; they are bounded by the ischium anteriorly, the sacrum and coccyx posteriorly, and the ilium above. These are converted into foramina by the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments.