969 THE HEABT (1) mere ridges ; (2) bands attached at either end but elsewhere free ; and (3) a third set, the musculi papillares, which need a more detailed description (fig. 549). A special band—the so-called moderator band, which is constant in the sheep— is occasionally a well-marked structure in the human heart, stretching between its anterior and septal walls. The musculi papillares are attached by their broad ends to the ventricular wall, and by their extremities to tendinous cords (chordse tendinese), which restrain and harmonise the action of the valves guarding the auriculo-ventricular opening. Three of these are larger and more constant than the rest: an anterior, connected with the front wall above the moderator band ; a right, near the margin, which is also attached to the anterior wall; and a posterior, which arises from the septum. The septal wall of the ventricle so bulges into the cavity as to make its cross-section appear crescentic. The Openings and theik Valves The orijfice of the pulmonary artery is circular and obhquely placed at the summit of the infundibulum near the septum. It is guarded by three valves, the pulmonary semilunar valves. Of these one is placed anteriorly and to the left, and two posteriorly ; the right being somewhat in advance of the left (fig. 548). Fig. 551.—Interior View of the Aortic Semilunar Valves. Sinus of Valsalva-^ Section o Free edge of valve - t^^^X^^AV- Orifice of right coronarv "^11 artery SI' Corpus Arantii Semilunar valve Decussating fibrous tissue of valve I Immediately above and behind each semilunar valve there is a pouch or sinus. These collectively constitute the pulmonary sinuses, or sinuses of Valsalva. Each valve is formed of a fibrous layer within a reduplication of the lining membrane, which is continuous on the upper surface with the innermost coats of the artery, and on the opposite surface with endocardium of the ventricle. In the centre of the free straight edge of each valve there is a little fibro-carti- laginous nodule, the corpus Arantii, and this margin is further strengthened by a j delicate tendinous band. Another fibrous band in like manner strengthens the I convex attached portion of the valve, and from this a third set of obliquely inter- lacing fibres pass throughout the whole valve towards the nodule. Two narrow I crescent-shaped areas, the lunulse, near the free edge on each side of the nodule, remain almost free from this fibrous invasion, and it is these thinner portions which are in apposition during closure of the valve. A fibrous ring strengthens the pulmonary orifice, giving attachment below to the muscular fibres of the heart; whilst j above, opposite the sinuses of Valsalva, it is deeply hollowed into three semilunar j notches. The valves are attached to the edges of these notches as well as to the ' horns which project inwards and separate them from one another. (See fig. 551, of j the aortic valves, in which these characters are present and more strongly marked.)