COMMON ILIAC 599 The relations of the arteries differ sHghtly on the two sides, and may be considered separately. The Right Common Iliac Aeteby The right common iliac measures about two inches in length (5 cm.), and is rather longer than the left, in consequence of the aorta bifurcating a little to the left of the median line. Relations.—In front it is covered by the peritoneum, and is crossed by the right ureter a little before its bifurcation, by the ovarian artery in the female, by the ter- mination of the ileum, by the terminal branches of the superior mesenteric artery, and by branches of the sympathetic nerve descending to bhe hypogastric plexus. Behind, it lies on the right common iliac vein, the end of the left common iliac vein, and the commencement of the inferior vena cava, which separate it from the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae and their intervening discs, the psoas muscle, and the sympathetic nerve ; whilst still deeper in the groove between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the psoas are the lumbo-sacral cord, the obturator nerve, and the ilio- lumbar artery. To the right side are the beginning of the inferior vena cava, the end of the right common iliac vein, and 'the psoas muscle. To the left side are the right common iliac vein, the termination of the left common iliac vein, and the hypogastric plexus. It will be thus seen that the right common iliac artery crosses both common iliac veins, and that its own vein, the right, is at first a little to the left side, but, as it ascends, passes beneath it, and gets a little to the right side. Since the bifurcation of the vena cava is a little below and to the right side of the bifurcation of the aorta, it follows that the right common iliac artery lies on the commence- ment of the vena cava. The Left Common Iliac Aetery The left common iliac artery, one inch and three-quarters in length (4 cm.), is a little shorter and thicker than the right. Relations.—In front it is covered by the peritoneum, which separates it from the intestines, and is crossed by the ureter, the ovarian artery in the female, branches of the sympathetic nerve descending to the hypogastric plexus, the termination of the inferior mesenteric artery, the sigmoid flexure, and the sigmoid meso-colon. Behind are the lower border of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, the disc between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, and the disc between it and the sacrum, and the psoas muscle, from which it is separated by the left common iliac vein. Crossing deeply behind the artery between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the psoas, is the obturator nerve, the lumbo-sacral cord, and the ilio-lumbar artery. To the left side is the psoas muscle. To the right side are the left common iliac vein, the hypogastric plexus, and the middle sacral artery. Variations in the Common Iliac Arteries (A) The common iliac arteries may be longer or shorter than here described. They have been found as short as half an inch, or as long as four and a half inches, but the usual limit is something between one and a half to three inches. This variation in the length of the vessels may depend upon the aorta bifurcating above or below the usual spot, or upon the common iliac arteries dividing higher or lower than usual. A low bifurcation of the aorta is somewhat more common than a high bifurcation, as is also the case with the common iliacs. (B) The common iliacs may be absent, the external and internal iliacs then arising together from the end of the aorta. (C) Either artery may give off a large branch, such as the ilio-lumbar, the lateral or the middle sacral, sometimes a lumbar, or occasionally an accessory renal arter3^