THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 712 The dura mater of the brain is continuous through the foramen magnum with the dura mater of the cord. It is also continuous, through the various foramina in the cranium, with the external periosteum of the skull. This is most easily observed at the sphenoidal fissure, but may be made out with ordinary care at any of the other foramina. It sends a strong prolongation through the optic foramen which splits into two layers, one of which forms the sheath of the optic nerve, and the other is continued into the periosteum of the orbit. On account of the number of foramina at the base of the skull, it follows that the dura mater is more firmly connected to the bone here than at the roof and sides. In the region of the basilar process of the occipital bone, the dura mater splits into supporting and periosteal layers. The supporting layer passes through the foramen magnum to become continuous with the dura mater of the spinal cord. The periosteal layer clothes Fig. 403.—Coronal Section of the Head passing through the Mastoid Process. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) rosal the bone and is thickened into a ligamentous band, the occipito-cervical or cervico- basilar ligament (page 198), which passes through the foramen magnum to join the posterior common ligament of the vertebrae and to gain attachment to the body of the axis. Thus a connection is established between the dura mater and the periosteum of the vertebrae. At the back and sides of the foramen magnum the dura mater does not split into periosteal and supporting layers until it reaches the margin of that opening, where its layers divaricate, the one to become continuous with the external periosteum of the skull, the other to be continued into the spinal dura mater. In the middle fossa of the skull there is a separation of the periosteal and supporting layers to form the cavernous sinus; on the inner side of this the supporting layer is moulded round the pituitary body and then folds on itself to form the diaphragma sellae. External to the cavernous sinus the two layers remain separate for some distance, forming a space (Meckel's space), which encloses the Gasserian ganglion. The outer surface of the dura mater is covered with a number of arteries, which ramify between it and the inner table of the skull. These vessels break up into