THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 766 covered externally by a band of white fibres, concave inwards, the ascending root of the trigeminal nerve (fig. 432). At one point the substantia gelatinosa approaches very near the surface, and forms the grey tubercle of Rolando. Of the nuclei which are apparently without representatives in the grey matter of the spinal cord, the most important is the olivary nucleus ; this is a crumpled bag of grey matter enclosing white matter and occupying the interior of the olivary body. It can easily be seen with the unaided eye in cross-sections of the medulla. It presents a marked resemblance, in miniature, to the corpus dentatum of the cerebellum, and is often called the corpus dentatum of the olivary body. It presents an opening or hilum which opens downwards and inwards. The nucleus of the clava and the nucleus cuneatus are not directly represented in the cord, but their connection with the posterior horns can be seen in sections through the lower part of the medulla ; they have probably the same anatomical value as a column of nerve-cells (Clarke's column) in the dorsal region of the spinal cord (Testut). Other nuclei of smaller size are found in the medulla; the nucleus arciformis and the accessory olives will serve as examples of these (fig. 431). None of these smaller nuclei are visible to the unaided eye. Specific Gravity and Weight of the Brain The average specific gravity of the brain is about 1036. The white matter is somewhat more heavy (sp. gr. 1040) than the grey matter (sp. gr. 1034). Tlie adult male brain weighs on an average 49*5 ounces; the female brain is somewhat lighter, and weighs from 5 to 5*5 ounces less than the male. The cerebrum forms about 87*5 per cent, of the entire brain; the cerebellum about 10*5 per cent.; and the pons and medulla about 2 per cent. Weight of the Spinal Cord In the adult, the spinal cord, when all extraneous structures have been removed, weighs from 1 to 1'5 ounce. CRANIO-CEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY The great advances which have been made during late years in cerebral surgery render it imperative that the student should become acquainted with, at least, the more important facts concerning the relations which exist between the encephalon and the cranium with its covering of soft parts. The first observers considered that the lobes of the brain corresponded to the bones of the same name ; this is now known not to be the case. It has also been demonstrated that the sutures of the skull are much more variable in their relations to the fissures of the brain than was originally supposed. The principal fissures are found to be fairly constant in their position, while the sutures vary consider- ably in their relation to these fissures. Guide-points.^—-In attempting to map out the outline of the brain and its fissures and convolutions on the surface of the head, advantage is taken of certain prominent points and ridges, which can, under ordinary circumstances, be felt through the skin in the living head. Some of these are very definite, and therefore valuable; while others have been suggested by v-arious authors which are so obscure and variable as to be practically useless. The following is a list of the principal guide-points which have been employed : the glabella, the naso-frontal groove, the orbital arch, the external angular process, the zygoma, the external auditory meatus, the mastoid process, the superior curved line of the occipital bone, the external occipital protuberance, the parietal eminence, and the sutures of the skull. The glabella is an eminence which is situated between the superciliary ridges.