OBLIQUUS INTEBNUS 431 2. OBLIQUUS INTERNUS The obliquus internus abdominis (fig. 266)—named from its relation to the oreceding muscle and the direction of its fibres—is an irregular quadrilateral j3urved sheet, partly fleshy and partly aponeurotic. Origin.—(1) The outer half of Poupart's ligament; (2) the anterior two-thirds 3f the space intervening between the inner and outer lips of the crest of the ilium ; the outer and posterior aspect of the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis which aponeurosis is also called the lumbar fascia). Insertion.—(1 ) For about one inch into the inner extremity of the ilio- )ectineal hne ; (2) the anterior border of the crest of the pubes; (3) the whole ength of the linea alba; (4) the lower borders of the cartilages of the last three ibs. Structure—Arising by fleshy and short tendinous fibres intermingled, a fleshy heet is soon formed, the fibres of which diverge ; the anterior passing forwards nd downwards, the middle forwards and upwards, and the posterior directly -pwards to their insertion, which is by means of a broad aponeurosis. At the front f the lower intercostal spaces the fibres run parallel to, and in the same plane "th, the internal intercostals. The position of the change from fleshy to apo- eurotic fibres may be indicated by two lines at right angles to one another; one assing upwards and a little outwards from the middle of Poupart's ligament, the ther horizontally forwards below the tip of the last rib, and near the edges of the ower rib cartilages. The aponeurosis is blended with that of the external oblique, d in its upper three-fourths it divides into an anterior and a posterior plane which ogether form the sheath of the rectus muscle. In the lower fourth of the abdomen he whole of the aponeurosis passes in front of this muscle. The line of division of he aponeurosis of the internal oblique is indicated on the surface of the abdomen by furrow called the linea semilunaris, which lies between the fleshy part of the uscle and the outer border of the rectus muscle, and forms a curve, concave wards, which extends from the cartilage of the eighth rib above to the vicinity of he pubes below. The plica semilunaris, or fold of Douglas, on the other hand, is the name 'ven to the lower edge of the posterior sheath of the rectus, when that muscle ierces the aponeuroses so as to lie behind all of them in the lower fourth of its ourse. The lowest portion of the aponeurosis of insertion of the obliquus internus s closely blended with that of the transversalis abdominis, and is called the onjoint tendon. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior primary branches of the lower thoracic erves, and from the first nerve of the lumbar plexus by means of the ilio-inguinal nd ilio-hypogastric nerves. The main branches of these nerves run forwards etween this muscle and the transversalis abdominis, and give off their filaments 0 the internal surface of the muscle; some also are distributed to the muscle by he branches which perforate it in order to supply the external oblique. Action.—(1) The fibres of the muscle being curved tend to flatten upon their sontraction and so to compress the viscera contained within their concavity; hey will therefore help in defecation, micturition, parturition, and all expiratory efforts. (2) It will also assist expiration by drawing the lower ribs downwards. (3) *iVhen both muscles act together, they flex the thorax upon the pelvis. They will dso flex the lumbar and lower thoracic spine. (4) When the muscle of one side lets alone, or in conjunction with the obliquus externus of the other side, it will "otate the thorax to its own side. (5) The posterior fibres of the muscle will draw llown the side of the thorax ; it will therefore be a lateral flexor of the thorax and of the lumbar and lower dorsal spine. (6) Acting from the thorax, this muscle