i I 1070 THE MALE BEPBODUCTIVE OBGANS The dartos is continuous with the dartos tissue (page 1060) of the scrotum, and \ consists of smooth muscle, the fibres of which are for the most part disposed! longitudinally. It enters into the formation of the prepuce, and according to Sappey 1 forms a kind of sphincter around the preputial orifice. Beneath the dartos is a i loose connective tissue very liable to infiltration in inflammatory or dropsical con-1 ditions and in urinary extravasation. Within this lies the fascial sheath of the! penis, a complete and highly elastic tunic investing the entire organ as far as the \ base of the glans, where it fuses with the integument. The suspensory ligament \ of the penis is a strong band of fibrous tissue which passes from the front of thej symphysis to the subjacent portion of the organ, blending with the fascial sheath i in the middle line and at the sides. The angle of the penis corresponds to the I most anterior point of suspension to the symphysis. The corpora cavernosa constitute the dorsal and larger part of the penis. They are closely united in the greater part of their extent, but separate for a short distance j in front and diverge somewhat widely behind. The posterior extremity of each,, called the crus penis, at first enlarges slightly, but tapers as it approaches the subpubic arch; then, becoming tendinous and somewhat flattened, is strongly' attached to the ischio-pubic rami; and the distal end, pointed somewhat like the tip of a cigar, is plunged into the substance of the glans (fig. 628). The entire length of the corpus cavernosum averages about six inches, and its breadth about Fig. 628.—Transverse Section of the Penis through the Base of the Glans. C0RP8S SPONGIOSUM Integument half an inch, but it increases in size by one-third or more when its vascular spaces are fully distended. In structure it consists of a sponge-like erectile tissue invested by a strong; sheath or tunica albuginea. The sheath is about a line in thickness, white,; remarkably tough, and consists of two laminae, an external, of longitudinal fibres common to both corpora cavernosa; and an internal, of circular fibres surrounding: each corpus and forming a mesial septum pectiniforme where the two corpora; cavernosa come into contact. The framework of the cavernous structure is formed. by a reticular arrangement of fibro-muscular trabecular bands, starting from the inner surface of the albuginea and becoming more slender as they approach the! axis of the body. The branches of the supplying artery run in the trabeculse and < terminate by opening into the anastomosing intertrabecular spaces which represent the widely dilated capillaries of the organ. The corpus spongiosum lies in the middle line and below the united corpora; cavernosa. Unlike the latter it has no direct attachment to the pelvic bones, but j terminates at each end in a bulbous expansion. It may be divided into a glans.; a body, and a bulb. The anterior enlargement, or glans, is somewhat heart-shaped, its base extending ) much farther over the dorsal than over the ventral aspect of the corpora caver- j