286 THE ARTICULATIONS (iii) The Intercuneiform and (iv) The Guho-cuneiform Articulations The uniting ligaments of these bones are divided into three sets : — Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous. The dorsal ligaments are three in number, two connecting the three cuneiform bones together, and a third uniting the external cuneiform with the cuboid. They pass between the contiguous margins of the bones, and are blended behmd with the dorsal ligaments of the cubo-scaphoid and scapho-cuneiform joints. The plantar ligaments are two in number : a very strong one passes outwards and forwards from the outer side of the base of the internal cuneiform to the apex of the middle cuneiform, winding somewhat to its outer side. The second connects the apex of the external cuneiform with the anterior half of the inner surface of the cuboid along its plantar border, joining behind with the plantar scapho-cuboid ligament. The interosseous ligaments are three in number. They are strong and deep masses of ligamentous tissue which connect the middle cuneiform with the internal and external cuneiform bones, and the external cuneiform with the cuboid; occupying all the non-articular portions of the apposed surfaces of the bones. The ligaments extend the whole vertical depth between the middle cuneiform and the external, and the external cuneiform and the cuboid, and blend with the dorsal and plantar ligaments ; they are situated in front of the articular facets, and completely shut off the synovial cavity behind from that in front. The ligament between the internal and middle cuneiform bones occupies the inferior and anterior two-thirds of the apposed surfaces, and does not generally extend high enough to separate the synovial cavity of the anterior tarsal joint from that of the second and third metatarsal and cuneiform bones. If it does extend to the dorsal surface, it divides the facets completely from one another, making a seventh synovial sac in the foot. The synovial cavity will be described later on. The arterial supply is from the metatarsal and plantar arteries. The nerves are derived from the anterior tibial, and internal and external plantar. The movement permitted in these joints is very limited, and exists only for the purpose of adding to the general pliancy and elasticity of the tarsus without allowing any sensible alteration in the position of the different parts of the foot, as the medio-tarsal and calcaneo-astragaloid joints do. It is simply a gliding motion, and either deepens or widens the transverse arch. The external cuneiform being wedged in between the others is less movable, and so forms a pivot upon which the rest can move. The movement is more produced by the weight of the body than by direct muscular action ; and of the muscles attached to this part of the tarsus, all deepen the arch save the tibialis anticus, which pulls the internal cuneiform up, and so tends to widen it. (c) The Medio-taesal oe Teansveese Taesal Joints The articulations of the anterior and posterior portions of the tarsus, although in the same transverse line, consist of two separate joints, viz. (i) an inner, the astragalo-scaphoid, which communicates with the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation ; and (ii) an outer, the calcaneo-cuboid, which is complete in itself. The movements of the anterior upon the posterior portions of the foot take place at both of these joints simultaneously. It will be most convenient to deal with the joints separately as regards the ligaments ; while the arteries, nerves, and move-j ments will be considered together.