864 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM visceral branches of the spinal nerves, but differ from the somatic nerves in the following respects: (a) in the individual fibres being of smaller calibre than the somatic nerve-fibres ; (b) in the great preponderance of non-medullated fibres; (c) in the fibres being interrupted in the nerve-cells, which are contained in a chain of ganglia which is called the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, and often also interrupted in secondary and tertiary ganglia, of which the semilunar ganglia and the nerve-cells in the plexuses of Auerbach and Meissner are examples; and (d) in the tendency that these nerves show to form extensive and closely-meshed plexuses. The somatic nerves are the nerves which supply the body-wall as distinguished from the viscera. They have been described above as the cranial and spinal nerves. Certain visceral nerves—for example, the visceral branches of the third and fourth sacral nerves—do not join the gangliated cord. While the sympathetic nerves, taken as a whole, can no longer be regarded as a separate system, certain ganglia connected with the sympathetic are capable of automatic action ; for example, the ganglia in the heart and in the intestinal walls. The sympathetic system, as usually described, consists of (a) a pair of gangliated cords which are placed on the front and sides of the vertebral column ; and (b) three great prevertebral plexuses. One of these, the cardiac plexus, is contained in the thoracic cavity. The other two, which are termed the solar and hypogastric plexuses, are placed in the abdominal cavity. The gangliated cords will be first described. GANGLIATED CORDS OF THE SYMPATHETIC ' J The gangliated cords of the sympathetic consist of a series of ganglia united together by intervening cords. These ganglia are of a reddish-grey colour, soft in consistence, but enclosed in tolerably firm investments of connective tissue. The nerve-cords uniting them are pearly grey in colour. Morphologically speaking, there should be thirty-one pairs of ganglia, that is to say, a pair corresponding to each pair of spinal nerves. We find, however, owing to the cohesion of certain ganglia, particularly in the cervical region, that the number is reduced to from twenty to twenty-three pairs. In the thoracic region the arrangement is the most typical, as here we find twelve pairs of ganglia corresponding to the twelve thoracic nerves. In the thoracic region, also, the arrangement of the rami communicantes is most easily studied. Each of the thoracic ganglia is connected to the corresponding spinal nerve by two rami communicantes, a white and a grey. The white ramus communicans consists of medullated fibres which enter the ganglion and pass through it towards the viscera. The grey ramus communicans or revehent nerve is formed of non-medullated fibres, and passes back from the ganglion to join the spinal nerve. It gives off afferent fibres which enter the spinal cord, and efferent fibres which join the somatic division of the spinal nerve, and are thus conveyed to the walls of the blood-vessels, forming vaso-motor nerves, and to the skin, where they are distributed to the sweat glands. Cranial portion of the sympathetic.—The small sporadic ganglia (ophthalmic, spheno- palatine, otic, and submaxillary), which have already been described in connection with the trigeminal nerve, are regarded by some anatomists as representing a cranial portion of the gangliated cord. CERVICAL POETION OF THE GANGLIATED CORD The cervical portion of the gangliated cord consists of three ganglia united by intervening nerve-cords. Of these the superior cervical ganglion is the largest, and probably represents four coalesced ganglia ; the middle cervical ganglion is the smallest, and represents two ganglia ; the inferior, intermediate in size, is probably