THE BIBS 111 j spreads with great rapidity along the shaft, and by the fourth month reaches as I far as the costal cartilage ; the proportion borne by the rib-shaft to the costal cartilage is about the same at this date as in adult life. Whilst the ribs are in a cartilaginous condition, eight of them reach the sternum ; even after ossification has taken place, the costal cartilage of the eighth rib, in many instances, articulates with the sternum as late as the eighth month (fig. 116). This relationship may Fig, 115.—Eib at Puberty. epiphysis for the head. appears at epiphysis for tubercle. appears at fifteen; fuses at twenty-three fifteen; fuses at twenty-three persist through life, but usually the cartilage retrogresses, and is replaced by ligamentous tissue. About the fifteenth year a secondary centre appears for the head of each rib, and a little later one makes its appearance for the tubercle, except in the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs. The secondary centres fuse with the ribs about the twenty-third year. The costal cartilage stands in relation to the rib-shafts as unossified epiphyses; the rib-shaft increases in length mainly at its line of junction with the costal cartilage. Variations in the Number and Shape of the Bibs The ribs may be increased in number by addition either at the cervical or lumbar end of the series, but it is extremely rare to find an additional rib or pair of ribs in both the cervical and lumbar region in the same subject. Cervical ribs are fairly common; as a rule they are of small size and rarely extend more than a few millimetres beyond the extremity of the transverse process. Occasion- ally they exceed such insignificant proportions and reach as far as the sternum : between these two extremes many varieties occur. As a rule, tha existence of a cervical rib is not detected until the skeleton is macerated ; hence we know little of the correlated arrange- ment of soft parts. In one fortunate case Turner was able to make a thorough dissection