THE ARTICULATIONS 192 mouth. In the opening movement the condyle turns hke a hinge on the fibro- cartilage, while at the same time the fibro-cartilage, together with the condyle, glides forward so as to rise upon the eminentia articularis ; the fibro-cartilage reaching as far as the anterior edge of the eminence, which is coated with articular cartilage to I receive it; but the condyle never reaches quite so far as the summit of the eminence. Should the condyle, however, by excessive movement (as in a convulsive yawn), glide over the summit, it slips into the zygomatic fossa, the mandible is dislocated, and the posterior portion of the capsule is torn. In the shutting movement the condyle revolves back again, and the fibro-cartilage glides back, carrying the condyle withi it. This combination of the hinge and gliding motions gives a tearing as well as' a cutting action to the incisor teeth, without any extra muscular exertion. ■ There is (ii) a horizontal gliding action in an antero-posterior direction, by^ which the lower teeth are thrust forwards and drawn back again : this takes place almost entirely in the upper compartment, because of the closer connection of thel Fig. 194.—Vertical Section through the Condyle of Jaw to show the Two Synovial Sacs and the Interarticular Fibro-cartilage. SECTION TH fibro-cartilage to the condyle than to the squamosal bone, and also because of the insertion of the external i^terygoid into both bone and cartilage. In these two sets' of movements the joints of both sides are simultaneously and similarly engaged. The third form of movement is called (iii) the oblique rotatory, and is that by which the grinding and chewing actions are performed. It consists in a rotation' of the condyle about the vertical axis of its neck in the lower compartment, whilei the cartilage glides obliquely forwards and inwards on one side, and backwards! and inwards on the other, upon the articular surface of the squamosal bones,' each side acting alternately. If the symphysis be simply moved from the centre to one side and back again, and not from side to side as in grinding, the condyle of that side moves round the vertical axis of its neck, and the opposite condyle and cartilage glide forwards and inwards upon the glenoid fossa. But in the^ ordinary grinding movement, one condyle advances and the other recedes, and then the first recedes while the other advances, slight rotation taking place in each; joint meanwhile. \