1074 THE MALE BEPBODUCTIVE OBGANS I ! Its average length is still variously stated by different authorities, but the inves- I tigations of Cazenave and Sappey, confirmed as they are by the frozen sections of I Braune and others, set the matter at rest so far as the physiological condition is j concerned. In the ordinary relaxed state of the penis the distance between the internal and external meatus does not usually exceed six inches and a half, and may be less than this when the organ is contracted to its minimum degree. But I under the test of catheterism the length of the canal is undoubtedly greater, and ■ may reach seven or eight inches or even more, owing to the traction upon the I penis which accompanies the operation. The canal may be greatly lengthened' also by senile hypertrophy of the prostate, which carries the internal meatus upwards | towards the level of the top of the symphysis. i The diameters of the passage are scarcely capable of accurate measurement.; In the ordinary condition it is represented by a fissure, and its limits of safei dilatability can only be approximately calculated. Otis's investigations showi that these limits are wider than was formerly believed to be the case, and he| has endeavoured to establish as a law that there is a ratio between the maximum; circumference of the canal and that of the penis, of four to nine. Thus a penis having in its ordinary state a circumference of thirty-six lines should possess a urethra capable of admitting an instrument of sixteen lines. The sources oi fallacy in such an observation are not inconsiderable, but they do not destroy itg value as a practical guide to the surgeon. The prostatic portion is about an inch and a quarter in length, wider ir the middle than at the two extremities, and perpendicular in direction, or slightl} inclined downwards and forwards. Its anterior wall is concave both in longitudina and transverse sections, and is studded with the orifices of small mucous follicles ' the posterior wall presents a longitudinal ridge called the coUiculus seminalis o:' verumontanum, highest near the middle and gradually diminishing above anc ; below. A little above the centre of the colliculus may be seen a rather largi j opening which leads to a cul-de-sac of especial interest for the morphologist, th(| sinus pocularis or uterus masculinus, and on the lateral margins of the onM of the sinus are seen two small puncta, one on each side, the openings of tb j i ejaculatory ducts. The sinus pocularis and ducts may be traced upwards ani| backwards through the prostatic cleft and behind the sphincteric fibres whic^i constitute the prostatic bar or middle lobe of the prostate. | In consequence of the presence of the colliculus the urethral fissure appears o:: horizontal section as a U-shaped curve with forward convexity. The recesse^ « corresponding to the extremities of the U are sometimes called the prostatic sinusef: t and into these open the orifices of the posterior and lateral prostatic glands. J The mucous membrane of the prostatic urethra is lined with a laminated epi thelium. Beneath this is a layer of erectile tissue which constitutes the principf j element of the colliculus, and is in turn supported by a layer of longitudinal muscL | The sinus pocularis is believed to be the homologue of the uterus. It is aboi i half an inch in length, and terminates by a blind slightly dilated extremity. Itj walls consist of connective tissue intermingled with smooth muscular fibres, an i covered with laminated epithelium. It contains a few simple or compound glandi in which small concretions are occasionally found. | The membranous portion, bounded above and below by the superior an- inferior triangular ligaments, is from half to three-quarters of an inch in lengtbj it is inclined downwards and somewhat forwards, and lies about an inch behind tlj subpubic ligament, from which it is separated by the muscular fibres of the de€ transversus perinsei and a plexus of veins. The posterior wall is shorter than tl anterior, owing to the convergence of the two triangular ligaments as they pai j backwards to unite with the posterior border of the fascia of Colles. It is close, related on either side to Cowper's glands.