THE ABTEBIES 5U The branches of the posterior cerebral artery may be divided into the ganghonic or central, and the cortical or hemispheral. {ci) The ganglionic or central branches, are divided into the postero-median ; th( posterior choroid ; and the postero-lateral. (i) The postero-median branches conK off from the posterior cerebral near its origin, and, passing through the cerebra substance forming the posterior perforated spot, supply the inner part of the opti( thalamus and the walls of the third ventricle; (ii) the posterior choroid branch passei through the transverse fissure to the velum interpositum and choroid plexus ; (iii the postero-lateral branches arise external to the spot where the posterior cerebra artery is joined by the posterior communicating. They run to the posterior part o the optic thalamus and give branches to the crus cerebri and optic lobes or corpor; quadrigemina. (h) The cortical or hemispheral branches are distributed as follows:—(i) th uncinate, a branch to the anterior part of the uncinate convokition ; (ii) the temporal a branch to the inferior part of the temporal lobe ; and (iii) the temporo-occipita] i a branch to the cuneus, lingual convolution, and outer surface of the occipital lobtj Here it may be stated, not only in reference to the branches of the posterioj cerebral artery, but also with respect to the branches of the anterior and middlj cerebral arteries, which are described with the internal carotid (page 534), that ther ' is no anastomosis between the cortical and central branches. The cortical ani the central form two distinct and separate systems. The cortical may or ma| not anastomose with each other, but the communication between the neiglj bouring cortical branches is seldom sufficient to maintain the nutrition of an are i when the vessel that normally supplies it is obstructed. The central branches ai so-called end-vessels and do not anastomose with each other. Hence obstructio of the middle cerebral or Sylvian artery leads to softening of the area supplied 1 i its central branches, but not always to softening of the region supplied by its cortic: | branches. Indeed the cortical region may escape completely, although the centr | area is irreparably disorganised. The gross anastomosis of the posterior cerebral wil i the anterior and middle cerebral arteries through the circle of Willis is describe i with the branches of the internal carotid (page 535). j SUMMARY OF THE DISTEIBUTION OF THE CEREBEAL ARTEEIE Here it may be of advantage to give a brief summary of the distribution of tl anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries, the branches of which have alrea( been described in detail. The branches of each are divided into the central ganglionic, and the cortical or hemispheral. The central branches arise at tl commencement of the cerebral arteries about the circle of Willis, whilst t] cortical are derived chiefly from the termination of these vessels. (A) The central branches are divided into six sets—two median and fo lateral. 1. The two median are—(1) The antero-median, which arise from i anterior cerebral and the anterior communicating, and supply the fore end of t caudate nucleus, and (2) the postero-median, which arise from the posterior cerebri, and supply the inner part of the optic thalamus and neighbouring wall of the thi ventricle. 2. The four lateral, two on each side, are also divided into antero-later and postero-lateral. (1) The antero-lateral arise from the middle cerebral, ai passing through the anterior perforated spot, supply the lenticular nucleus, t posterior part of the caudate nucleus, the internal and external capsules, and t outer part of the optic thalamus. (2) The postero-lateral arise from the poster: cerebral, and supply the hinder part of the optic thalamus, the crus, and the op lobes or corpora quadrigemina. (B) The cortical branches ramify in the pia mater, giving off branches to t ^