479 DIGASTBIC—STYLO-HYOID- MYLO-HYOID 1 the elevation of the tongue, which rests upon the upper surface of the hyoid one. It will therefore help in the first part of deglutition, in which the back of he tongue is pressed against the hard palate. i Eelations.—The posterior belly hes beneath the mastoid process, the sterno- lastoid, splenius, and trachelo-mastoid muscles, the facial vein, and the parotid land; in front lies the stylo-hyoid muscle ; deeply, the middle constrictor of the harynx, the hyo-giossus, the external and internal carotid arteries, and some of lie branches of the external carotid, the internal jugular vein, the hypoglossal and uperior laryngeal nerves. ! The tejidon lies beneath the deep cervical fascia, platysma myoides, and part of [ihe stylo-hyoid muscle. Above is the submaxillary gland. On its deep surface is he rest of the stylo-hyoid muscle, the mylo-hyoid, the hyo-giossus, and the hypo- llossal nerve. The anterior belly is covered by the deep cervical fascia and platysma myoides, ,nd it lies upon the mylo-hyoid muscle. Variations.—A second posterior belly may arise in front of the angle of the mandible; lips may also arise from the styloid process, or the pharynx. The anterior belly may 1)6 absent; it may be partly or entirely miited with that of the opposite side, or may send ]> slip to the median raphe of the mylo-hyoid. 2, STYLO-HYOID The stylo-hyoid—named from its attachments—is a slender fusiform muscle ivith a bifurcated lower extremity. Origin.—The back and outer surface of the styloid process of the temporal bone rear its base. Insertion.—The lower border of the body of the hyoid bone at the point of mion with the great cornu. , Structure.—Arising by a short tendon, its fibres soon become fleshy and pass |iownwards and forwards. Just before its insertion they divide into two bundles, which form an obliquely directed arch bridging over the tendon of the digastric muscle. Nerve-supply.—A special branch of the facial nerve, which enters its deep Isurface from behind. 1 Action.—The same as that of the posterior belly of the digastric, viz. to draw the hyoid bone backwards and upwards. Relations.—Superficially, the parotid gland and deep cervical fascia ; in front, the submaxillary gland ; behind, the posterior belly of the digastric ; deeply, the middle constrictor and hyo-giossus and the external carotid artery. Variations.—The stylo-hyoid may arise in part from the cartilage of the external auditory meatus. It may be absent, or its insertion may be midivided^ in which case it may pass to the inner or outer side of the digastric tendon. A second stylo-hyoid may run beneath the hyo-giossus to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. 3. MYLO-HYOID The mylo-hyoid—named from its attachment to the lower jaw (/xi;X?;=a mill and the jaw) and to the hyoid bone—is a triangular and somewhat curved sheet. Origin.—The whole length of the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of the body of the mandible. Insertion.—(1) The lower edge of the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone ; (2) a median raphe extending from the middle of the lower border of the