886 OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE each surface a series of fine, sinuous, grey Hues can be seen radiating from the pole towards the equator, called respectively the anterior and posterior stellate figures. The lines observable on the posterior are always so placed as to be intermediate with those on the anterior surface, so that on viewing them through the lens they occupy a position corresponding to the intervals between the lines on the anterior surface. The lens-capsule is comparatively brittle, and can be readily cut through when scraped with a sharp-pointed instrument; on doing so the divided edges curl outwards, away from the lenticular substance. When removed from its capsule, the outer portion of the lens is found to be soft and glutinous, but its substance gets progressively firmer as we approach the centre. This harder central part is known as the nucleus, and the surrounding softer matter as cortex. The cortical part shows a tendency to peel off in successive layers. It consists of long fibres, the ends of which meet in front and behind at the anterior and posterior stellate figures. Histologically the capsule is not in immediate contact with the cortex over the front surface of the lens, a single layer of cells intervening, called the subcapsular epithelium. The suspensory ligament of the lens is formed by a thickening of the anterior part of a membrane enclosing the vitreous, strengthened by numerous fibres derived from the folds of the ciliary region. Its chief attachments to the lens- capsule are a little in front of and behind the equator, and the space included between the most anterior and most posterior divisions of the ligament is termed the canal of Petit. This space is bridged across by fine intermediate suspensory fibres, and is occupied by fluid. The vitreous humour is a transparent, colourless, jelly-like mass, enclosed in a delicate, clear, structureless membrane, called the hyaloid membrane. This latter is closely applied to the back of the posterior lens-capsule and of the suspensory ligament, and to the inner surface of the pars ciliaris retinae, retina proper, and optic papilla. Although possessing some degree of firmness, the vitreous humour contains quite 98 per cent, of water, and has no definite structure. Membranes have been described in it, but these are really artificial products. In certain situations spaces exist in the vitreous mass, the most determinate of which runs in the form of a canal from the optic papilla to the posterior pole of the lens, corre- sponding to the position of the foetal hyaloid artery (hyaloid canal, or canal of Cloquet). Other very fine spaces are described running circularly in the peripheral part of the vitreous concentric with its outer surface. Microscopically, wandering cells are found in the vitreous, which often here assume peculiar forms which the observer can, not infrequently, study subjectively. The aqueous humour is a clear, watery fluid, occupying the space between the cornea on the one hand, and the ciliary body, suspensory ligament, and lens on the other. The iris, projecting into this space, has both its surfaces bathed in the aqueous; but, as its inner part rests on the lens, it is regarded as dividing the space into two parts, an anterior larger, and a posterior smaller aqueous chamber, which communicate freely through the pupil. Ciliary nerves of the eyeball.—The long and short ciliary nerves, after per- forating the sclerotic, run forward between it and the choroid to the ciliary region, where they form a plexus, from which proceed branches for the ciliary muscle, the iris, and the cornea. The nerves of the iris enter it at its ciliary border, and run towards its pupillary edge, losing their medullary sheath sooner or later, and supplying specially the sphincter muscle. The corneal nerves form an annular plexus near the limbus, from which a few twigs proceed to the sclerotic and con- junctiva, while most of the offsets enter and run radially in the corneal stroma, branching and anastomosing so as to form a plexus. The nerves entering the cornea