1052 THE UBINAIiY ORGANS known as tho ureter proper. In sonio cases, however, it can scarcely be said to exist as a dihitation. Under ordinary circumstances it is flattened from licfore backwards, its anterior and posterior walls being in contact, and its channel represented by a fissure. It is in relation behind with the posterior lip of the hilum, from which it is separated by more or less adipose tissue continuous with the fatty capsule, and occasionally hy an irregular branch of the renal artery. The renal vein and artery imbedded in fat lie in front, and anterior to these structures are situated the descending portion of the duodenum on the right side, and the pancreas on the left. The ureter extends from the termination of the pelvis to the bladder, running in a kind of lymph-space between the laminfe of the subperitoneal tissue. It is a tube of about a sixth of an inch in diameter when distended, and is fairly uniform in si/e, except about two inches below the kidney where a slight constric- tion is usually found (Bruce Clark). Its length is variously stated, but the average in the male adult may be taken as about twelve inches. The excessive estimates sometimes given depend upon the untrustworthy indications afforded by admeasure- ment after the removal of the structure} from the })ody. Fio. GIG.— Ui'PKR PoiJTiON OF ])vcT. (Aftor ITonle.) CALYX INFERIOR PELVIS Course and relations. TIk; tubes lie a])out three inches apart at their connnence; meiit, but this disliUKU' grjidually ](!sseiis to about two inches as they descenc towards the sacro-iliac joint. In th(} true pelvis they at first diverge, but filially oi^ Hearing the Ijase of the bbidder run forwards and inwards to pierce the wall of th( viscus, and at their termination are separated by a distance of about an inch and i\ quart(!j'. I'he course of each tub(; may b(! conv(;ni(!nily divi(l(;d into three stages, abdominal, pelvic, and vesical, '^i'he abdominal portion, running downwards and slightly inwards, IS 111 l'(!Jc ition, 'poslr/riorly, with tin; ])soas hjhI its fascia, ami the genito-crurai nerve, and with the common iliac artery near its bifurcation Anteriorly, it is covered by peritoneum and intestines, and is crossed })y tbi colic and spermatic vessels. Internally, it is opposed on the right side to tht inferior vena cava, on the left to the aorta; the vein being almost in contaci with the right ureter, while the {irtery is separated from the left tube by ai| interval that gradually diminishes from one inch above to half an inch oppositi; the bifurcation of the vessel. ! The pelvic portion runs in front of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis then upon th(