LYMPHATICS OF ABDOMEN AND FELVIS 703 superior gastric lymphatics; their efferent ducts pass, first upwards towards the oesophagus, and then, after receiving the lymphatics from the upper and left portion of the left lobe of the liver, turn downwards behind the pancreas to join the coeliac glands. The inferior gastric or gastro-epiploic glands, six or eight in number, lie along I the greater curve of the stomach between the layers of the great omentum. They I receive the inferior gastric lymphatics and the lymphatics of the great omentum. I Their efferent vessels pass with the lymphatics from the upper part of the duo- denum into the coeliac glands. (2) The lymphatic vessels of the intestines are divided into the lymjphatics of the small intestine and the lymphatics of the large intestine. The lymphatics of the small intestines are called the lacteals, because they carry the chyle as well as the lymph from the intestinal walls. Beginning partly beneath the peritoneal coat—but chiefly in two plexuses, one between the muscular coats, and one beneath the mucous membrane—they pass round the intestine with the blood-vessels to the mesenteric attachment, and thence between the layers of the mesentery to the mesenteric glands. The lymphatics of the large intestine are disposed of as follows :—{a) Those from the csecum and ascending colon pass between the layers of the meso-colon to the meso-colic glands, (h) Those from the transverse colon and upper half of the descending colon pass with the middle colic artery between the layers of the meso- ' colon, also to the meso-colic glands, (c) Those from the lower half of the descend- ing colon and sigmoid flexure pass into the left lymphatic trunk of the lumbar glands. The lymphatics of the rectum are described with the lymphatics of the pelvis (page 702). The lymphatic glands of the intestines are the mesenteric and meso-colic. The mesenteric glands, some one hundred and fifty to two hundred in number, lie between the layers of the mesentery. They are arranged roughly in three sets : [a) A primary set, about two inches from the intestinal margin of the mesentery, receive the lymphatics from the intestine. The efferent vessels from these glands pass into the next or secondary set. [h) The secondary set are situated about the primary loops of the superior mesenteric artery; they are more numerous than the primary set, and receive the efferent vessels of the latter. Their efferent vessels end in the tertiary set. (c) The tertiary set of glands lie along the course of the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. They are larger than the secondary set, and closer together. Their efferent vessels unite to form three or four trunks, or perhaps more often a single trunk (the intestinal lymphatic trunk) which, after receiving the efferent vessels from the meso-colic glands, opens, either separately, or together with the efferent ducts of the coeliac glands, into the receptaculum chyli. The glands and lacteals of the jejunum are more numerous than those of the ileum. The meso-colic glands, twenty to thirty in number, are placed between the layers of the meso-colon. They receive the lymphatics from the caecum, ascending I and transverse colon, and from part of the descending colon. Their efferent vessels join the efferent vessels from the tertiary set of mesenteric glands, and open with them into the receptaculum chyli. (3) The lymphatics of the liver consist of a superficial and deep set. The former are arranged in a plexus beneath the peritoneal covering; the latter accom- pany the blood-vessels in the substance of the organ. \a) The superficial set of lymphatics form groups, and run in various directions. 1 Those on the upper or convex surface of the liver are disposed of as follows :— (i) The I lymphatics of the left half of the right lobe, and of the right half of the left lobe, converge towards the falciform ligament, up which they run to the diaphragm. I They then pass through the costo-xiphoid space, and enter the anterior mediastinal