THE GABFO-METACABPAL JOINTS 255 The nerves are supplied by the branches of the median to the thumb. The movements of this joint are regulated by the shape of the articular surfaces, rather than by the ligaments, and consist of flexion, extension, abduction, adduc- tion, and circumduction. In flexion and extension the metacarpal bone slides to and fro upon the trapezium ; in abduction and adduction it slides from side to side or, more correctly, revolves upon the antero-posterior axis of the joint. The power of opposing the thumb to any of the fingers is due to the forward and inward obliquity of its flexion movement, which is by far its most extensive motion. Abduction is very free, while adduction is limited on account of the proximity of the second metacarpal bone. The movement of the trapezium upon the rest of the carpus somewhat increases the range of all the movements of the thumb. 9. THE INTEECARPAL ARTICULATIONS Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. The metacarpal of the thumb is not connected with any other metacarpal bone. Those of the second, third, fourth, and fifth are in actual contact at their bases, and are held firmly together by the following ligaments :— Dorsal. Palmar. Interosseous ligaments. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 233) are layers of variable thickness of strong, short fibres, which pass transversely from bone to bone, filling up the irregularities on the dorsal surfaces. The palmar ligaments are transverse layers of ligamentous tissue passing from bone to bone ; they cannot be well defined from the other ligaments and fibrous tissue covering the bones. The interosseous ligaments (fig. 235) pass between the apposed surfaces of the bones, and are attached to the distal sides of the articular facets, so as to close in the synovial cavities on this aspect; where there are two articular facets, the fibres extend upwards between them, nearly as far as their carpal facets. That between the fourth and fifth is the weakest. The arteries to the intermetacarpal joints are twigs from the palmar and dorsal interosseous arteries ; the twigs pass upwards between the interosseous muscles. The nerves are derived from the ulnar and the posterior interosseous. The synovial membrane is prolonged downwards from the common carpal sac. The Union of the Heads of the Metacarpal Bones The distal extremities of these bones are connected together on their palmar aspects by what is called the transverse ligament. This consists of three short bands of fibrous tissue, which unite the second and third, third and fourth, and the fourth and fifth bones. They are rather more than a quarter of an inch (6 mm.) deep, and rather less in width, and limit the distance to which the metacarpal bones can be separated. They are continuous above with the fascia covering the inter- osseous muscles; below, they are connected with the subcutaneous tissue of the web of the band. They are on a level with the front surfaces of the bones, and are blended at either side with the edges of the glenoid ligament in front, with the lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and also with the sheaths of the tendons. In front, a lumhrical muscle passes with the digital arteries and nerves; while behind, the interossei pass to their insertions.