762 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM Beyond this the lateral column can be followed as a narrowband behind the ohve as far as the transverse groove at the lower border of the pons. The olivary body is an ovoidal prominence from twelve to sixteen millimetres long, which extends upwards as far as the transverse groove at the lower border of the pons. It is separated from the pyramidal body by the sulcus lateralis ventralis, and marked off externally by the sulcus postolivaris. Its lower end is crossed by the external arciform fibres. The external arciform fibres emerge from the anterior longitudinal fissure and from the sulcus laterahs ventralis, and arch round the pyramidal and olivary bodies to join the restiform body of the same side. The posterior area of the medulla is occupied in its lower part by two slender fasciculi, each of which expands above into a tubercle. The inner of the two is called the funiculus gracilis, the outer the funiculus cuneatus. The funiculus gracilis is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the posterior fissure. As it approaches the lower extremity of the fourth ventricle, it swells out into a Fig. 4'29. Transverse Section through the Upper Part of the Pons. (Scliwalbe.) LINGULA TRANSVERSE FIBRES OF PONS prominence called the clava. The latter diverges from its fellow of the opposite side, bounding the fourth ventricle. When traced upwards it gradually tapers off into a fine point. To the inner margins of the diverging portions of the clavas we find the obex and ligul^ attached, as already described (page 758). The funiculus cuneatus is placed between the funiculus last described and the lateral area of the medulla. At the level of the clava it swells out into a prominence, the cuneate tubercle. Above this point it disappears from the surface. The upper part of the posterior area is occupied by the restiform body. The latter appears at first sight as if it were the continuation upwards of the funiculus cuneatus and of the lateral tract, and this was formerly described to be the case. It is now known, however, that it is formed by the direct cerebellar tract (page 781), the external arciform fibres, and the deep or internal arciform fibres (page 783). These constituents unite and form a rounded cord which proceeds upwards and then backwards to the cerebellum, forming the inferior peduncle of that body. In its lower part it is embraced by the roots of the auditory nerve. It then passes through a gap or interval between the superior and middle cerebellar