852 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM femoral sheath at the outer side of the femoral artery. In this situation it divides into its terminal branches ; these branches may be classified into cutaneous and muscular, some of the latter being associated with articular twigs. The muscular branches are distributed to the iliacus, pectineus, sartorius, quadriceps extensor, and subcrureus. The cutaneous branches are the middle and internal cutaneous and the long saphenous. (a) The nerves to the iliacus are given off from the anterior crural in the intra- abdominal part of its course. {b) The nerve to the pectineus arises immediately below Poupart's ligament. It passes inwards behind the femoral vessels and the femoral sheath, and enters the anterior surface of the muscle. (c) The nerve to the sartorius is usually adherent to the middle cutaneous fori a part of its course. (d) The nerves to the quadriceps are of large size and are distributed to thei four portions of the muscle. From the branch to the rectus an articular twig isj furnished to the hip joint. The nerves to the vasti give large twigs to the upperj and lateral portions of the capsule of the knee joint. The nerve to the crureus,' after giving branches to the upper part of the muscle, runs downwards between j the adherent borders of the crureus and vastus internus to reach the anterior j aspect of the lower end of the femur, where, after supplying the subcrureus, it endsi! in the synovial membrane of the knee joint. t (e) The middle cutaneous nerve usually takes the form of two strong branches, j Avhich run a nearly parallel course. One of these branches usually pierces the' sartorius, while the other crosses the superficial surface of that muscle ; they pierce the fascia lata a little above the middle of the thigh. They ramify in the super-; ficial fascia, supplying the skin of the anterior part of the thigh as far as the knee, \ where they end in the plexus patellae. (/) The internal cutaneous nerve is directed downwards along the outer side of the femoral artery, and gives off in this situation two or three cutaneous twigs, which i pierce the fascia lata. It then crosses obliquely in front of the femoral artery, atj the lower angle of Scarpa's triangle, and divides into an anterior and a posteriori branch. The anterior branch is the larger. It runs downwards in front of the] sartorius, under cover of the fascia lata. It pierces the fascia lata about the! middle of the lower third of the thigh, and, after giving twigs to the skin of that region, turns outwards to end in the plexus patellae. The posterior branch runs ' along the posterior border of the sartorius, and, after giving twigs to the sub-: sartorial plexus, runs downwards on the inner aspect of the knee, and ends in the: integument of the upper and inner part of the calf. i Plexus patellae.—The skin covering the patella is profusely supplied with nerves which i communicate with one another, and are derived from the external, middle, and internal j cutaneous and from the long saphenous. j Subsartorial plexus.—At the posterior border of the sartorius muscle, a little below the; middle of the thigh, branches of the obturator, long saphenous, and internal cutaneous • nerves communicate in a plexiform manner and supply the adjacent skin. The posterior i branch of the internal cutaneous has an independent distribution, as already described, j Occasionally the cutaneous branch of the obturator is unusually large, and may supply ani area of integument covering the lower part of the inner hamstring muscles. 'i {g) The long or internal saphenous nerve accompanies the nerve to the vastus internus in its course through Scarpa's triangle, being placed between the latter] \ nerve and the femoral artery. It enters Hunter's canal, and runs a parallel course toj ■ the femoral artery, being supplied against the outer side of that vessel. At the lower ji end of the canal it crosses in front of the femoral vessels, and runs on the deepi surface of the sartorius accompanied by the superficial branch of the anastomotic| j artery. It passes between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis, and becomesj ;