1211 THE THIGH superior spine to the top of the trochanter. This hne is practically Nclaton's. The second line will be found diminished on the damaged or diseased side. Muscular prominences.—The tensor vaginae femoris (ilio-aponem^otic muscle) forms a prominence beginning just outside the sartorius and reaching downwards and somewhat backwards to the strong fascia lata, three to four inches below the great trochanter. Below this point, as far as the outer tuberosity of the tibia, the strong ilio-tibial band can be felt. The sartorius, the chief landmark of the thigh, forming a boundary of Scarpa's triangle, Hunter's canal, and the popliteal space, can be readily brought into view by the patient's raising his limb. In the middle line, the rectus muscle stands out in bold relief, with its tendon of insertion and the patella, when the leg is extended. On either side of this muscle is a furrow. Fig. 756.—Transverse Section of the Hip Joint and its Relations. (One-third.) (Braune.) \ ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE IN SUB- STANCE OF ILIACUS^ INTERNUS External iliac artery' Obturator internus Adductor magnus Obturator externus Adductor longus Adductor brevis ^. Grluteus minimus Gluteus medius Peetineus Ilio-psoas and on either side, again, of this furrow the vasti become prominent. Between the vastus internus and adductor muscles is a depression indicating Hunter's j canal. At the upper and inner third of the thigh, if the limb be abducted, ' the upper part of the adductor longus comes into strong relief. On the inner side below, above the knee joint, the vertical fibres of the adductor magnus end m a powerful tendon coming down to the adductor tubercle (fig. 768). This replaces here the internal intermuscular septum, and the insertion of the tendon marks the level of the lower epiphysial line of the femur. At the outer and back part ot the ! thigh the vastus externus is separated from the biceps by a groove which indicates the external intermuscular septum. • u i f n I Poupart's ligament.—The abdomen is separated from the thigh by a told,