THE SKELETON 70 of the ramus, but oblique with regard to the median axis of the skull, so that the outer is more anterior than the inner angle, and presents the condyloid tubercle for the external lateral ligament of the temporo-mandibular articulation. The convex surface of the condyle is covered with cartilage and rests in the glenoid fossa ; the. neck is flattened in front and presents a pit, for the insertion of a portion of the external j^terygoid muscle. The superior border of the ramus is knoAvn as the sigmoid notch; it is terminated anteriorly by the coronoid process. This is a pointed process with two borders and two surfaces ; the inner surface presents a ridge, commencing at the tip, and becoming continuous with the inner edge of the alveolus. To this ridge, to the area of bone in front of it and the tip of the coronoid process, the temjjoird muscle is inserted; its outer surface affords attachment to the masseter and a few fibres of the temjjoral. The anterior border of the ramus is continuous with the external oblique line on the body of the bone. Blood-supply.—The mandible is very vascular, and receives a large supply from Fig. 78.—The Mandible. (Inner view.) External pterygoid / Capsule MANDIBULAR SPINE MANDIBULAR FORAMEN Spheno- rnandibular ligament Superior constrictor Mylo-hyoid groove Internal pterygoid Stylo- mandibular ligament GROOVE FOR SUBLINGUAL GLAND G-enio-hyo- I glossus --- G-enio- I liyoid Digastric Mylo-hyoid INTERNAL OBLIQUE LINE GROOVE FOR SUBMAXILLARY GLAND the mandibular branch of the internal maxillary artery. This constitutes its main supply. It receives twigs also from the facial artery. It gives attachment to the following muscles :— Buccinator. Depressor labii inferioris. Depressor anguli inferioris. Levator menti. Genio-hyo-giossus. Superior constrictor of pharynx. Masseter. Orbicularis oris. Internal pterygoid. External pterygoid. Platysma myoides. Genio-hyoid. Mylo-hyoid. Digastric. Temporal. Ossification.—The mandible has six points of ossification for each lateral half. All these, with the exception of one, are deposited in membrane. The nuclei are deposited very early (between the sixth and eighth week), and fuse so rapidly that observations on the development of this bone are unusually difficult.