C CELIAC 589 and lobulus Spigelii of the liver; to the left, the left semilunar ganglion and the cardiac end of the stomach. It is closely snrromided by the dense solar plexus of sympathetic nerves. Variations.—(A) The coeliac axis may be absent; the branches usually arising from it then coming otf separately h^om the aorta, (B) It may be shorter or longer than usual. Under the latter circumstance the branches are commonly given off separately from the trunk of the vessel instead of radiating from one spot. (C) It may give off two branches only : these are usually the splenic and hepatic, more rarely the gastric and the splenic. (D) It may give off more than three branches, the additional branch being one of the phrenics; a trunk common to the two phrenics; a gastro-duodenal; a second gastric or splenic artery, or the superior mesenteric; the median colic or the pancreatica magna. (E) One or other of the branches normal to the coeliac axis may be absent, or replaced by Fig. 365.—The Cceliac Artery and its Branches. Ahdominal aoria LEFT CRUS OF DIAPHRAGM / (ESOPHAGEAL BRANCH RIGHT GRUS OF DIAPHRAGM Cystic aUcuj -' W Riglitphrenic artery CYSTIC DUCT ' tSplenic artery — COMMON BILE DUCT Pyloric artery Superior pancreatico- duodenal artery HEAD OF pancreas"^ Inferior pancreatico- duodenal artery Right gastro-epiploic artery _ ^ ^^^^ WAWM^ Left gastro-epi2>lo'ic artery a stem common to the phrenics, or b}^ the right suprarenal and the right gastro-epiploic, or more rarely by some other branch. Branches of the ccBliac artery.—The coeliac axis gives off the gastric, hepatic, and splenic arteries. 1. The Gasteic Arteey The gastric or coronary artery (fig. 365), the smallest of the three branches into which the coeliac axis divides, courses at first upwards and to the left towards the cardiac end of the stomach, where it turns sharply round, and then, coasting along the lesser curvature of the stomach, descends from left to right towards the pylorus. It anastomoses with the superior pyloric branch of the hepatic artery, which has proceeded from the opposite direction, the two branches thus forming a continuous arterial arch corresponding to the lesser curvature of the stomach. The artery at first lies behind the posterior layer of the lesser omental sac of peritoneum (fig. 364), but on reachmg the cardiac end of the stomach it passes through the so-called