THE BASE OF THE SKULL 79 it presents the hard palate. "When the skull is inverted the hard palate stands at a higher level than the rest; it is bounded anteriorly and laterally by the alveolar ridges containing the teeth. The bones appearing in the intermediate space are the pre-maxillary and palatine portions of the maxillae, and the horizontal plates of the palate bones. The bone is rough for the attachment of the muco- periosteum. The following points are readily recognised (fig. 85.) :— The meso-palatine suture commences at the alveolar point, traverses the anterior palatine fossa, and terminates at the posterior nasal spine. The transverse palatine suture between the palate bones and palatine processes of the maxillfe. In young skulls the maxillo-premaxillary sutures, and behind the incisor teeth four small openings known as the gubernacular canals. The anterior palatine fossa containing the termination of four canals : two small orifices, foramina of Scarpa, situated one behind the other in the meso- palatine suture; and two larger openings, the foramina of Stenson. Scarpa's jforamina transmit the naso-palatine nerves ; Stenson's are in relation with Jacob- son's organs. At the posterior angles of the hard palate are the posterior palatine foramina, through which the posterior palatine vessels and the anterior palatine nerves emerge on to the palate ; a thin lip of bone separates them from the accessory palatine foramina for the posterior palatine nerves. The accessory foramina are in the tuberosity of the palate bone. The hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate is the most posterior limit of the hard palate. At the posterior extremity of each alveolar ridge is the tuberosity of the maxilla. Between the tuberosities of the maxilla and the palate bone are a few minute foramina (variable in number and not always present), the external palatine canals for the external palatine nerves. Behind the hard palate are the posterior nares, separated from each other by the vomer. Each is bounded externally by the internal pterygoid plate ; below by the horizontal plate of the palate bone ; above by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, with the ala of the vomer and a portion of the sphenoidal process of the palate bone. External to the nares there is on each side a vertical fossa lying between the pterygoid plates. It extends upwards to the under surface of the greater wings of the sphenoid; it is completed anteriorly by the coalescence of the pterygoid plates, and below by the tuberosity of the palate bone. It contains the follov/ing points of interest:— An elongated furrow, the scaphoid fossa, for the tensor 2^alati muscle. The general cavity of the pterygoid fossa which lodges the tensor palati and internal pterygoid muscles. Frequently there is a notch in the external pterygoid plate close beside the foramen ovale. The posterior termination of the Vidian canal. If a line be drawn across the skull base from one zygomatic tubercle to the other, it will fall immediately behind the external pterygoid plate and bisect the foramen spinosum on each side. A second transverse line, drawn across the opisthion or posterior margin of the foramen magnum, will fall behind the mastoid processes. The space between these imaginary lines may be called the suh-cranial region ; that behind the second line the sub-occipital region. In addition to these there is a lateral space anterior to the first line known as the zygomatic region. Each will require separate consideration. The suh-cranial region is formed by the following bones:—In the centre, the under surface of the bodies of the sphenoid and occipital bones. Laterally, the