THE ETHMOID 53 THE EPIPTERIC AND WORMIAN BONES These are bones of variable size which occupy the anterior lateral fontanelles, regions indicated in the adult skull by the name pterion. Each epipteric bone is wedged between the squamosal, frontal, greater wing of sphenoid, and the parietal, and is present in most skulls between the second and fifteenth year. After that date it may persist as a separate ossicle, or unite with the frontal or the squamosal. In this case it will cause a fronto-squamosal suture, and exclude the parietal from the sphenoid. More commonly the epipteric joins the sphenoid. In some skulls it is scarcely as large as a split pea, in others it is as broad as the thumb- nail. The epipteric bone is pre-formed in membrane, and appears in the course of the first year. The Wormian bones are small, irregular-shaped ossicles, often found in the sutures of the skull, especially those in relation with the parietal bones. Wormian bones sometimes occur in great number; as many as a hundred have been counted in one skull. They are rarely present in the facial sutures. THE ETHMOID The ethmoid is a bone of delicate texture, situated at the anterior part of the skull-base ; it is roughly cuboidal in shape, and its delicacy is due to the fact that it is honeycombed by air-cells. The bone consists of four parts : the horizontal or cribriform plate, two lateral masses, and a perpendicular plate. The cribriform plate forms part of the anterior cerebral fossa, and is received Fig. 62.—Section through the Nasal Fossa to show the Mesethmoid. SPII NASAL SPINE OF FRONTAL CREST OF MAXILLA into the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone. Standing vertically upon this plate is the crista galli. To the posterior border of the crista the falx cerebri is attached ; this border divides posteriorly to enclose the ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid. The anterior aspect of the base of the crista constitutes the anterior border of the cribriform plate ; it is rough for articulation with the frontal. In the suture between the two bones there is an opening, the foramen caecum, which trans- mits a small vein. On each side of the crista galli the cribriform plate lodges the