THE ABTIGULATIONS 236 of an inch (6 mm.) wide above and below, but less at the sides. Its outer edge is inseparably welded, near the bone, with the capsular ligament. In some places, especially at the inner side and above, it often overlaps the cartilage and forms a fringe ; at others, it may be separated by a very narrow interval, covered by loosely woven fibro-cartilage. Its structure is almost entirely fibrous, with but few cartilage cells intermixed. At the upper part of the fossa the biceps tendon is prolonged into the glenoid ligament, the tendon usually dividing and sending fibres into both sides of the ligament, which may wind round nearly the whole circumference of the socket. It may, however, send fibres into one side only, usually into the outer. The articular cartilage covering the glenoid fossa is thicker at the circum- ference than at the centre, thus tending to deepen the cavity. It is usually thickest at the lower part of the fossa ; over the head of the humerus the cartilage is thickest at and below the centre. Fig. 226.—Outer View of the Shoulder Joint, showing the Coraco-humeral AND Transverse Humeral Ligaments. Trapezoid ligament- Tendon of subscapularis muscle- The synovial membrane lines the glenoid ligament, and is then reflected over the capsule as far as its attachment to the humerus, from which it ascends as far as the edge of the articular cartilage. The tendon of the biceps receives a long tubular sheath, which is continuous with the synovial membrane, both at its attached extremity and at the bicipital groove, but is free in the rest of its extent. The synovial cavity sometimes communicates with the bursa under the subscapu- laris, and less frequently with one under the infraspinatus muscle. It also sends a pouch-like prolongation beneath the coracoid process when the fibrous capsule is attached wide of the margin of the glenoid fossa. A few fringes are seen near the edge of the glenoid cavity, and there is often one which runs down the inner edge of the biceps tendon, extending slightly below it, and so making a slight groove for the tendon to lie in.