THE ABTEBIES 510 Higher up the neck it passes beneath the stylo-hyoid muscle, the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and the hypoglossal nerve; and, entering the parotid gland, is situated deeply in that structure at its division into its terminal branches. It is separated from the internal carotid artery posteriorly by the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-glossus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, the pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric nerve, a portion of the parotid gland, and the stylo-hyoid ligament; or, if the styloid process is abnormally long, by that process itself. It measures about two and a half inches (6'5 cm.). Relations (fig. 329). — In front, in addition to the skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia, it has the hypoglossal nerve, the lingual and facial veins, the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoid muscles, the temporo-maxillary ] vein, the superior cervical lymphatic glands, branches of the facial nerve, and the j parotid gland. The sterno-mastoid also overlaps it in the natural state of the parts.! Behind, it is in relation with.the internal carotid, from which it is separated j by the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, the pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric nerve, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the ■ parotid gland. The superior laryngeal nerve crosses behind both the external and' internal carotid arteries. Internally, it is in relation with the hyoid bone, the pharyngeal wall, the ramus of the jaw, the stylo-maxillary ligament which separates it from the submaxillary ' gland, and the parotid gland. Externally, in the first part of its course, it is in contact with the internal carotid artery. Chief Variations of the External Carotid Artery The variations of the external carotid artery are not of much surgical importance. The variations in its origin have been discussed under Variations of the Common Carotid. (A) It may be absent, the branches usually derived from it coming off from the upward continuation of the common trunk. (B) It may run superficial to the stylo-hyoid muscle. (C) Its branches may come off irregularly; or may be diminished or increased ir number either by two or more arising as a common stem, or by its giving origin to branches not usually derived from it, as the sterno-mastoid branch of either the superior thyroid oj occipital artery. (D) At times all its branches come off close together just above its origin. The branches of the external carotid are usually given off in the following order j from below upwards :— 1. Ascending pharyngeal 2. Superior thyroid . 3. Lingual 4. Facial . 5. Occipital 6. Posterior auricular 7. Temporal 8. Internal maxillary Ascending set. Anterior set. Posterior set. Terminal set. 1. THE ASCENDING PHAEYNGEAL AKTEEY The ascending pharyngeal artery is usually the first or second branch of th external carotid. Occasionally it comes off at the bifurcation of the commo: carotid from the common carotid itself. It is a long slender vessel, the smalles named branch of the external carotid, and runs deeply seated up the neck to tb base of the skull, having the walls of the pharynx internally, the internal caroti llftl jlei iiscei] lnic lieii]