968 THE OBGANS OF CIBCULATION j blindly, but the rest are the termmations of minute veins from the musculail substance (vense minimae cordis). One of these, more constant than the others, th( vena Galeni (right marginal), usually opens below the superior cava, on the septa! wall. i The cavity of the right auricle is smooth, except upon its anterior wall, an([ within the appendix, where it is ridged with muscular bands (the musculil pectinati). At the lower part of the posterior wall or septum which divides the two auricles, and just above the orifice of the inferior cava, is a smooth oval depression, th( fossa ovalis. It marks the position of the opening in the foetal heart, to bf| described hereafter ; and is bounded by a well-marked rounded edge, the annuluji ovalis. Beneath its margin a little valvular pouch may usually be noticed whicb, leads into a small orifice passing into the left auricle. ! The tubercle of Lower—which is placed on the right of the cavity between thf: orifices of the two cavse—is well marked in some of the lower animals, but it is quite; an insignificant eminence in man. ' The right ventricle forms the larger part of the heart in front, where it is Fig. 550.—Transverse Section through the Heart near its Apex, showing THE Kelative Thickness of its Muscular Walls, the Bulging of the Septum towards the Eight Ventricle, and the Shape of the Cavities. [ CAVITY OF LEFT VENTRICLE convex ; but below, where it rests upon the diaphragm, it is flattened. It forms, the whole of the lower border (margo acutus) of the heart, but it does not reach the apex, which is formed entirely by the left ventricle. In form the ventricle is triangular, its upper and left angle being continuous: with the root of the pulmonary artery ; and upon opening the cavity the two are | seen to be continuous through a cone-shaped prolongation—the infundibulum oi! conns arteriosus. At the opposite angle there is a second and larger opening, leading from the'; right auricle, the auriculo-ventricular orifice. It lies below and to the right of the; pulmonary orifice. The apex of the ventricle points to the left. The two openings just named are guarded by valves and separated by a rounded, muscular projection of the ventricular wall. The inner surface, or body, of the ventricle presents a somewhat complicated arrangement of nniscular ridges, bands, j and columns, which become smaller, more numerous, and more closely interlaced*) at the apex and near the margin, but which disappear in the infundibulum. ] These projections, or columnse carnese, are usually divided into three sets: