628 THE ARTERIES (ciy The communicating^ branches pass transversely inwards in front of the tendo Achillis to anastomose with the communicating branch of the posterior tibial. The usual situation of this communication is from one to two inches above the ankle joint. (e) The cutaneous branches run outwards-between the flexor longus hallucis and soleus to supply the integuments on the outer side of the leg. (/) The external calcanean comes ofi' from the peroneal below the point at which the anterior peroneal is given off, and is distributed over the outer surface of the OS calcis. (g) The terminal branch, or posterior peroneal, the continuation of the peroneal artery, anastomoses with the other arteries distributed to the external malleolus and heel. (2) The muscular branches of the posterior tibial artery are distributed to the contiguous muscles, namely: the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and soleus. (3) The medullary artery, a vessel of large size, leaves the posterior tibial at its upper part, pierces the tibialis posticus, and enters the medullary foramen in the upper third of the posterior surface of the tibia. In the interior of the bone it divides into two branches: an ascending or smaller, which runs upwards towards the head of the bone ; and a descending or larger, which courses downwards towards the lower end. It gives off two or three muscular twigs to the tibialis posticus before it enters the foramen. The medullary artery of the tibia is the largest nutrient artery of bone in the body. (4) The cutaneous branches pass outwards to the integuments on the inner side of the leg. They run in the cellular planes between the deep and superficial muscles, and serve as useful guides to the vessel when ligaturing the posterior tibial through the lateral incision. (5) The communicating branch arises from the posterior tibial about two inches above the inner malleolus, and, passing transversely outwards across the j tibia beneath the flexor longus hallucis and tendo Achillis, anastomoses with the | communicating branch of the peroneal. ' Frequently an inferior communicating brpouch between the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries is likewise present in the loose connective tissue beneath or I behind the tendo Achillis (fig. 374). | (6) The malleolar or internal malleolar branches are distributed, as the name implies, over the internal malleolus, anastomosing with the other arteries entering into the retiform plexus of vessels over that portion of bone. In their course to ' the malleolus, they run beneath the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles. (7) The calcanean or internal calcanean branch is distributed to the soft parts over the inner side of the calcaneum. This branch—or, as is frequently the case, branches—comes off from the posterior tibial just before its bifurcation, and anasto- moses with the internal malleolar and peroneal arteries (fig. 379). (8) The terminal branches are the external and internal plantar arteries. THE EXTEENAL PLANTAR ARTERY The external plantar artery—the larger of the two branches into which the posterior tibial divides beneath the internal annular ligament—passes at firsi j obliquely forwards and outwards across the sole of the foot to the base of the fiftt j metatarsal bone, where it makes a bend forwards and inwards, and, sinking deepl}! ^ into the foot, terminates at the proximal end of the first interosseous space b} j anastomosing with the communicating branch of the dorsal artery of the foot. In itil 1 course to the fifth metatarsal bone the artery runs in a more or less straight lin( j ^