I THE ALIMENTABY CANAL 1031 : Edentates the simple vertical median fold of peritonemii is retained. ■ This is shown I in the great anteater and in Hoffmann's sloth (fig. 596), where the intestinal canal, , from the pylorus to the rectum, is still quite simple, although it is of considerable length, and is, as a consequence, thrown into numerous coils. The whole of this long tube is supported by a single median fold of peritoneum attached to the middle line behind, and serving the purpose of meso-duodenum, mesentery, meso- colon, and meso-rectum in one. Where this fold is attached behind runs the aorta, and between the layers of the fold vessels pass forwards to supply the viscera. (Fig. 592, B, a, represents the intestinal tube to which an artery is passing.) There will be an artery to the stomach (i, fig. 593) and the great mesenteric artery. The latter vessel will supply the rudimentary duodenum, the small intestines, the caecum, and such part of the colon as is later on known as the ascending and transverse segments. The arrangement of the vessel is shown in figs. 593, 2, and 596. The descending colon and rectum are suppHed by a separate vessel, the inferior mesenteric, direct from the aorta (3, figs. 593 and 596). At the summit of the primitive loop which forms the principal part of the intes- FiG. 594.—Alimentary Canal of Salamandra maculosa. tine will be the vitello-intestinal duct or vitelline stalk (v. d, fig. 593 ; a, fig. 592, A), It is to this point that the great or superior mesenteric artery is directed. The morphological ending of the superior mesenteric artery is at this spot, while branches pass off from either side of it. The student may be reminded that a trace of the vitelline duct may persist in the form of a process known as Meckel's diverticulum, and that this process, when existing, is situated in the lower part of the ilemPx not far from the cpecum (page 1003). In the adult the trunk of the artery may be represented by a line drawn from its place of origin to a point on the ileum from one to three feet from the csecum. The primitive intestinal loop increases in length, and forms longer and more complex coils. A large part of these coils will lie without the abdomen, the anterior abdominal wall being still incomplete. As the loop lengthens, a species of neck forms which tends to become narrower. The upper part of this neck or strait is bounded or formed by the duodenum; the lower part by that portion of the large bowel which is at a later period known as the transverse colon (fig. 593). The transverse colon and the duodenum are thus brought near together, and it is noteworthy that, no matter how complex the relations of the bowel become, these segments of the intestinal tube are never separated. In the narrow neck formed