THE SKELETON 124 and extends into the glenoid fossa, and along the upper border as far as the suprascapular notch. During the fifteenth year the coracoid is ankylosed to the scapula, and the secondary centres appear. Two nuclei are deposited in the acromial cartilage, and fuse to form the acromion, and join the spine at the twentieth year. This union of the acromion and spine may be fibrous, hence the acromion is often found separate in macerated specimens. The cartilage along the vertebral border ossifies from two centres : one in the middle, and one at the posterior inferior angle. A thin scale may occasionally be detected at the tip of the glenoid fossa. Morphology.—It is impossible to comprehend the significance of the scapular nuclei without considering briefly the morphology of the shoulder (pectoral) girdle. In its most generalised form the shoulder girdle consists of cartilage, which is disposed in three parts. Of these, a dorsal segment represents the scapula and a ventral bar, reaching to the sternum, represents the coracoid. The meeting place of the coracoid and scapula is the glenoid fossa. Anterior to the coracoid there is a third piece, more or less parallel with the coracoid, named the pre-coracoid. The human shoulder girdle is modified from the type form, mainly in the suppression of the pre-coracoid and, in part, of the coracoid. The suppression is brought about by the clavicle, which commences to ossify in the membrane overlying the pre-coracoid ; it then invades and replaces the cartilage. The scapular end of the coracoid ossifies and becomes the coracoid process of the scapula; the ventral end degenerates to form the costo-coracoid ligament, which lies in the free border of the membrane of that name. The dorsal cartilage ossifies and becomes the scapula ; the large tract of cartilage on the vertebral border of the young scapula represents the large suprascapular cartilage of batrachians. The suprascapular notch indicates the line of union of scapular and coracoid elements. In the embryo the notch is bridged over with cartilage, which may ossify or become ligament. THE HUMERUS The humerus is the longest bone of the upper limb. Its upper extremity presents a hemispherical surface covered with cartilage, and known as the head. The head articulates with the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and is directed upwards, inwards, and backwards. BeloAv the articular surface the bone is rough and con- stricted, constituting the anatomical neck. To the outer side of the head are two tuberosities, separated by the bicipital groove. The greater tuberosity is the higher and more posterior ; it is marked by three facets for muscles : an upper one for the supra-spinatus, a middle for the infra-spinatus, and an inferior for the teres minor. The lesser tuberosity is the more prominent; it serves for the insertion of the sub- scapular is. The furrow between the tuberosities lodges the long tendon of the biceps, extends downwards in the axis of the humeral shaft, and, gradually becoming shallower, ends near the junction of the upper and middle third of the shaft. The margins of this, the bicipital groove, are called lips, and afford attachment to muscles. The pectoralis major occupies the whole length of the outer lip. The inner lip receives, below, the teres major, and above, the latissimus dorsi; the tendon of the latter muscle is also attached to the floor of the groove. Between the tuberosities, the transverse humeral ligament converts the groove into a canal. In addition to the long tendon of the biceps and its tube of synovial