776 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM at the level of the sixth cervical vertebra. The lumbar enlargement commences at the level of the ninth dorsal vertebra, and reaches its maximum at the twelfth dorsal; below this point it rapidly diminishes and passes into the conns meduUaris. The spinal cord is bilaterally symmetrical, the two halves being marked off from one another by the anterior and posterior longitudinal fissures. From the antero- lateral and posterolateral aspects of the cord the anterior and posterior nerve-roots emerge, forming two parallel series of fasciculi which extend for the entire length of the cord. In the upper cervical region the intrathecal course of the nerve-roots is very short, and the direction taken by the roots is nearly transverse. As the roots are traced downwards in the dorsal and lumbar regions, they become pro- gressively longer, and descend with an increasing degree of obliquity. Hence the lumbar and sacral nerve-roots have a very long intrathecal course. They extend beyond the termination of the cord (which, it will be remembered, ends at the body of the second lumbar vertebra), and lie within the theca in a sheaf somewhat resembling a horse's tail, and therefore called the cauda equina. Fissures.—The anterior longitudinal fissure (fissura longitudinalis anterior)^ is a true fissure and is comparatively wide. It attains a depth equal to one-third of the antero-posterior diameter of the cord. As above mentioned, both layers of the pia mater dip into it. It occupies the entire length of the cord. It is continuous above with the anterior fissure of the medulla, being, however, almost obliterated at the decussation of the pyramids. The posterior longitudinal fissure (sulcus longitudinalis posterior) is much narrower than the anterior, and is, in fact, a septum rather than a fissure, being formed by the inner layer of the pia mater, which dips in and reaches as far forwards as the grey commissure. Its depth is one-half of the antero-posterior diameter of the cord. It is continuous with the posterior fissure of the medulla. Antero-lateral and postero-lateral fissures or grooves corresponding to the line of origin of the anterior and posterior nerve-roots are described, and by means of these fissures the cord is mapped out into three columns : an anterior between the anterior longitudinal fissure and the antero- lateral groove ; a lateral between the last-named groove and the posterolateral groove, and a posterior between the postero-lateral groove and the posterior median fissure. The postero-lateral groove is well marked ; at its floor the grey matter of the cord comes to the surface, and from it the fibres of the posterior roots emerge in a single row. It is deepest in the cervical region, and is continuous with the sulcus lateralis dorsalis of the medulla. The antero-lateral groove has no real existence, as the anterior roots leave the cord in three to eight thin bundles, and thus cover a longitudinal strip of the cord about one millimetre in breadth. In correspondence with this, we find that the division into anterior and lateral columns is also artificial, and it is now generally recognised that it is better to enumerate only two columns in the spinal cord, viz. an antero-lateral and a posterior. In the cervical region of the cord an additional groove (sulcus para- medianus dorsalis) is visible ; this becomes indistinct when traced downwards, but is very obviously continued into the medulla. The surface of the cord is clothed with white matter, the grey matter being contained in the interior. In two situations, however, the grey matter comes to the surface, viz. in the floor of the postero-lateral groove and at the bottom of the posterior longitudinal fissure. In the latter situation the posterior grey commissure crosses from side to side. INTEENAL STRUCTUEE OF THE SPINAL COED In transverse section each lateral half of the cord is seen to be composed of both grey and white matter, the latter being disposed on the surface. The grey matter is in the form of a crescent, which has been not inaptly compared (by Testut)