1190 SURGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY covered by the tricexos. The lower is subcutaneous, and separated from the skm \ a bursa. If the thumb and second finger be placed on the condyles and the ind( on the tip of the olecranon, and the forearm completely extended, the tip of tl olecranon rises so as to be on the line joining the two condyles. In flexion at right angle, the olecranon is below the line of the condyles, and in complete flexic quite in front of them. Between the inner condyle and olecranon is a pit, in whi( lie the ulnar nerve and the anastomosis between the inferior profunda and tl Fig. 734.—The Bend of the Elbow with the Superficial Veins. (From a dissection by Dr. Alder Smith in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. MEDIAN NERVE Anastomotica magna BRANCHES OF INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE { Posterior ulnar vein Braehialis antieus Anastomotica magna artery Anterior ulnar vein Median basilic vein MUSCULAR BRANCH OF MEDIAN NERVE Tendon of biceps Bicipital fascia Braeh-ialis antieus Deep median vein Ulnar artery Pronator teres Radial artery Biceps Basilic veil Bracliialis antieus Cephalic vi- Brachial a § EXTERN. CUTANi NERVE Mi^'«'ru)-spii NERVE and a br. of radial rec Radial vein Median cephalic vein Ascending br. of radialrecurrem Radial recurrent artery Descending br. oj radial recurren artery Median vein RADIAL NERVE posterior ulnar recurrent arteries. The coronoid process is so well covered 1 muscles, vessels, and nerves, that its position cannot be distinctly made out. Swelling, due to effusion into the joint, appears on either side of the trice tendon, and soon obliterates the depression below the external condyle. A supe ficial swelling over the tip of the olecranon is due to effusion into the bursa betwe< the soft parts and that bone. A deeper, less easily defined, swelling in the san region is due to inflammation of the bursa between the olecranon and the triceps, swelling on the inner side of the elbow joint, if painful and accompanied by inflar mation of the skin, may be due to mischief in the epitrochlear gland situated ju