524 THE ABTERIES (B) From the second part:—(1) The masseteric ; (2) the posterior deep temporal; (3) the internal pterygoid ; (4) the external pterygoid ; (5) the buccal; and (6) the anterior deep temporal. All these branches supply muscles. (C) From the third part:—(1) The posterior dental, or alveolar ; (2) the infra- j orbital; (3) the posterior, or descending palatine ; (4) the Vidian ; (5) the pterygo- | palatine ; and (6) the naso- or spheno-palatine. All these branches pass through ! bony canals. Branches of the First Part of the Internal Maxillary Artery.—(1) The deep i auricular (fig. 836) passes upwards in the substance of the parotid gland behind the j capsule of the temporo-maxillary joint, and, perforating the bony or cartilaginous ' wall of the external auditory meatus, supplies the skin of that passage and the | membrana tympani. It at times gives a branch to the joint as it passes behind | the temporo-maxillary capsule. j (2) The tympanic branch, or Glaserian artery, is a long slender vessel, which | runs upwards behind the condyle of the jaw to the Glaserian fissure, through which j it passes to the interior of the tympanum. Here it supplies the lining membrane of ' that cpvvity and the laxator tympani muscle, and anastomoses with the other tympanic arteries, forming with the tympanic branch of the stylo-mastoid artery a vascular circle around the membrana tympani. This circle is more distinct in the foetus than in the adult. (3) The middle or great meningeal is the largest branch of the internal maxillary \ artery. It comes off from that vessel as it lies between the spheno-mandibular liga- j ment and the ramus of the jaw, and under cover of the external pterygoid passes j directly upwards to the foramen spinosum, through which it enters the interior of the ! cranium. In this part of its course it is crossed by the chorda tympani nerve ; and just before it enters the foramen is embraced by the two heads of origin of the auriculo-temporal nerve (fig. 336). The trunk of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve, as the latter emerges j through the foramen ovale, lies in front of the artery. As the artery passes upwards j it is surrounded by filaments of the sympathetic nerve, and is accompanied by two j veins which open into the internal maxillary vein. On entering the skull it ramifies j between the bone and dura mater, supplying both structures. It at first ascends , for a short distance in a groove on the greater wing of the sphenoid, and then j divides into two branches, an anterior and posterior. The anterior branch passes upwards, in the groove on the greater wing of the j sphenoid, on to the parietal bone at its anterior and inferior angle ; at this spot i the groove becomes deepened and often bridged over by a thin plate of bone, being converted for a quarter to half an inch or more into a distinct canal. The situation of the artery is here indicated on the exterior of the skull by a spot an inch and a ^ half behind, and about an inch above, the external angular process of the orbit. ■, The anterior branch is continued along the anterior border of the parietal bone nearly as far as the superior longitudinal sinus, and gives off in its course, but especially posteriorly, large branches which ramify in an upward and backward ] direction in grooves on the parietal bone (fig. 337). 1 The posterior branch passes backv/ards over the squamous portion of the* temporal bone ; and thence on to the parietal bone, behind the anterior branch. | This branch and its collaterals extend upwards as far as the longitudinal sinus, j and backwards as far as the lateral sinus. j In addition to its terminal anterior, and terminal posterior branches, the middle| meningeal gives off:—[a) Gasserian branches to the Gasserian ganglion andi Meckel's space, [h) A petrosal branch, which enters the hiatus Fallopii, andj anastomoses with the terminal branch of the stylo-mastoid artery, (c) A tympanic branch, which enters the canal for the tensor tympani, and supplies that muscle {d) An orbital or lachrymal branch, which enters the orbit at the outermost pari 1