1122 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY mouth is widely open, the pterygo-mandibnlar ligament can be seen and felt beneat the mucous membrane, behind the last molar tooth. Just below and in front c the lower attachment of this ligament, the lingual nerve can be felt lying clos to the bone below the last molar. It can be divided here to give relief from pai in incurable cancer of the tongue, at a point where it crosses a line drawn fror the last molar tooth to the angle of the jaw, by entering a knife nearly three-quarteij of an inch behind and below the tooth, and cutting towards it on the bone (Moore j Another method is to draw the tongue out of the mouth and expose the ner^i where it lies superficially under the mucous membrane thus made prominen (Koser.) I Behind the last molar tooth can be felt the coronoid process, and higher u Fig. 669.—Section of the Skull and Brain in the Median Plane. (Braune.) PITUITARY BODY OCCIPITAL bone' EUSTACHIAN TUBE Genio-hyo-glOBSus Digastric Falx cerebri ^^ii2)erior loixiilndinal sinus Inferior lonijidnUiud sin us — CORPUS CALLOSVX r-k-OPTIC CHI ASM A fr- CORPUS MA MM I LI. TfT Torcular Ilerophili ^^OSTPRIOR LOBE < ^ CEREBRUM ■ PONS VAROLII CEREBELLUM MI DI LLA OniJ)NaA7 POSTERIOR RING OF ATLAS DY OF AXIS Arytsenoideus muscle THYROID BODY . Sterno-thyroid muscle- DY OF SECOND THORACIC VE just behind and inside the tooth, the hamular process of the sphenoid. On t inner side of the coronoid, between it and the tuberosity of the upper jaw, is recess where a temporal abscess will point, having travelled down under the fasc and zygoma. When a patient breathes deeply through the mouth, the soft palate raised, the pillars are separated, and the tonsils and the back of the phary; are exposed. TONSILS.—The relations of the tonsils should be carefully examined. Thus tb ■ are separated externally by the superior constrictor and pharyngeal aponeuro from the ascending pharyngeal and internal carotid arteries. The extent to whi the tonsil is covered by the anterior pillar, how far it projects upwards beneath t soft palate or downwards into the pharynx, have all important bearings on t question of removal. Its position corresponds to the angle of the jaw. Wh j serious haemorrhage follows operations on the tonsils, it usually comes from one I