272 THE ABTIGULATIONS \ the external lateral ligament. From its anterior border is given off the transverse] ligament. | The internal semilunar cartilage (fig. 247) is a segment of a larger circle than the i external, and has an outline more oval than circular. Its anterior cornu is wide, and i has a broad and oblique attachment to the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, i It reaches backwards and outwards from the margin of the tuberosity towards the' middle of the fossa in front of the tibial spine, being altogether in front of the I anterior crucial ligament. The posterior cornu is firmly fixed by a broad insertion in an antero-posterior line along the inner side of the posterior fossa, from the internal i tubercle of the spine to the posterior margin of the head of the tibia, Its convex! border is connected with the internal lateral ligament and the semimemhranosus\ tendon. i The transverse ligament (figs. 246 and 247) is a rounded, slender, short cord,; which extends from the convex border of the external semilunar cartilage to the! concaA'C border or anterior cornu of the internal, near which it is sometimes attached; to the bone. It is an accessory band of the external cartilage, and is situated j beneath the synovial membrane. ! The coronary ligaments (fig. 246) connect the margins of the semilunari fibro-cartilages Avith the head of the tibia. The external is much more laxj than the internal, permitting the outer cartilage to change its position more freely' than the inner. They are not in reality separate structures, but consist of fibres of the several surrounding ligaments of the knee joint which become attached to,| as they pass over the margins of the fibro-cartilages. i The synovial membrane (fig. 249) of the Imee forms the largest synovial sac ini the body. Bulging upwards from the patella, it follows the capsule of the joint| into a large cul-de-sac beneath the tendon of the extensor muscles on the front of j the femur. It reaches some distance beyond the articular surface of the bone,| and communicates very frequently with a large bursa interposed between the| tendon and the femur above the line of attachment of the capsular ligament.] After investing the circumference of the lower end of the femur, it is reflected] upon the fibrous envelope of the joint formed by the capsular, posterior, and] lateral ligaments. It covers a great portion of the crucial ligaments, but leaves] uncovered the back of the posterior crucial where the latter is connected with' the posterior ligament, and the lower part of both crucial ligaments where] they are united. Thus the ligaments are completely shut out of the synovial ca\dty.| Along the fibrous envelope the synovial membrane is conducted down to the semi-j lunar cartilages, over both surfaces of which it passes, and is reflected oft' the under surface on to the coronary ligaments, and thence down to the head of the tibia, around the circumference of which it extends a short way. It dips down between the external cartilage and the head of the tibia as low as the superior tibio-fibular ligament, reaching inwards nearly as far as the popliteal notch, and forming a bursa for the play of the popliteal tendon. i At the back of the joint two pouches are prolonged beneath the muscles, one on each side between the condyle of the femur and the origin of the gastrocnemius, i Large processes of synovial membrane also project into the joint, and being occupied by fat serve as padding to fill up spaces. The chief of these processes, the ligamentum mucosum (figs. 248 and 249) springs from the infrapatellar fatty mass. This so-called ligament is the central portion of the large process of synovial membrane, of which the alar ligaments form the lateral free margins. Itl extends from the fatty mass, below the patella, backwards and upwards to thej intercondyloid notch of the femur, where it is attached in front of the anteriorj crucial, and to the outer side of the posterior crucial ligament. Near the femurj it is thin and transparent, consisting of a double fold of synovial membrane, butj near the patella it contains some fatty tissue. Its anterior or upper edge is free,|