345 EXTENSOB CABPI ULNABIS—ANCONEUS |)Sseous artery. On the outer side hes the extensor communis digitorum ; and on uhe inner, the extensor carpi ulnaris. t Variations.—The extensor minimi digiti is rarely absent, but it is sometimes blended [nth. the preceding muscle. Its tendon is often divided, sometimes into as many as three [slips. i I 8. EXTENSOE CARPI ULNARIS I The extensor carpi ulnaris—named from its action upon the carpus and its Dosition on the ulnar border of the forearm—is a fusiform sheet. Origin.—By two heads. The first head : (1) By the common tendon from the j)ack of the external condyle ; (2) the front of the deep fascia of the forearm ; and j 3) the intermuscular septa which separate it from the extensor minimi digiti, the jmconeus, and the supinator brevis. j The second head: from the posterior border of the ulna, by the aponeurosis (sommon to it, the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the flexor profundus digitorum. Insertion.—The back of the base of the fifth metacarpal bone, close to its ulnar jorder. Structure.—The fleshy fibres converge below upon the tendon of insertion, phich, beginning in the interior of the muscle in the middle of the forearm, soon becomes visible upon the radial border of the back of the muscle. It receives fleshy ibres in penniform fashion upon its ulnar border and deep surface nearly as far as ihe wrist, where it enters the sixth compartment of the posterior annular ligament, [md lies in a special groove to the outer side of the styloid process of the ulna. { Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the eighth cervical nerve) by branches from the posterior interosseous division of the uusculo-spiral nerve which enter the deep surface of the muscle about the middle )f the forearm. Action.—(1) To extend the wrist, acting upon the three articulations involved n this movement ; (-2) to adduct the wrist, especially when the hand is pronated ; [3) it will also help in the extension of the elbow joint. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia of the forearm, and the posterior bnnular ligament; deeply, the supinator brevis, three extensors of the thumb, extensor indicis, posterior interosseous artery, the inner half of the posterior surface l)f the ulna below the middle of the forearm, the wrist, and some carpal joints. On ;he outer side lies the extensor minimi digiti; on the inner, the anconeus muscle. Variations.—Frequently a small slip of tendon passes downwards to join the tendon of |he preceding muscle, the first phalanx, or the head of the metacarpal bone. Occasionally |."he fourth or even the third metacarpal bone may receive a slip. 4. ANCONEUS The anconeus—named from its intimate relation with the elbow (ayKwv)—is a riangular fan-shaped sheet. I Origin.—(1) The lower part of the back of the external condyle ; and (2) the idjacent part of the posterior ligament of the elbow joint. Insertion.—The rough triangular impression upon the outer surface (1) of the |i)lecranon, and (2) of the upper third of the back of the ulna. Structure.—This muscle is a continuation downwards of the lower part of the er head of the triceps. Arising by a short tendon, which is prolonged upon the eep surface of the muscle and along its outer border, the fleshy fibres diverge in fan shape, and are inserted either directly or by short tendinous fibres into the