700 THE LYMPHATICS organs in the female ; and into the deep, which accompany the deep arteries of the abdominal and pelvic walls. The former for the most part end in the superficial inguinal glands ; the latter in the lumbar glands. (1) The superficial parietal lymphatics.—^The superficial parietal lymphatics of the abdominal walls are situated between the skin and the abdommal muscles. Those from the front of the abdomen, below the level of the umbilicus, pass downwards along the course of the superficial epigastric artery and veins, and end in the superficial inguinal glands. The lymphatics from the upper part of the front of the abdomen, above the level of the umbilicus, pass upwards and outwards with the lymphatics from the front and side of the chest to the axillary glands. The lymphatics from the lateral abdominal walls run, in part over the crest of the ilium, in the course of the superficial circumflex iliac artery and veins, into the outer superficial inguinal glands, and in part follow the course of the lumbar and ilio-lumbar arteries, and, after perforating the abdominal muscles, end in the lateral lumbar glands. The superficial lymphatics from the lower part of the back and from the gluteal reg^ion for the most part pass outwards over the gluteal muscles to end in the outermost superficial inguinal glands ; but those from the region of the anus follow the course of the perineal lymphatics through the fork to the innermost superficial inguinal glands. The superficial lymphatics of the penis begin in the prepuce, and thence pass backwards to the corona glandis, where they form a ring around the glans. This ring receives the superficial lymphatics from the glans, and the lymphatics from the anterior two-thirds of the urethra which run from behind forwards. From the glans three main lymphatic channels run backwards under the integuments of the penis, one on the dorsum, and one on each side of the organ. At the root of the penis the dorsal lymphatic vessel divideslinto a right and left branch, each branch passing with the lateral lymphatic vessel of the corresponding side to the superficial inguinal glands. The deep lymphatics of the penis pass with the dorsal vein into the pelvis, where they join the lymphatic glands about the internal iliac artery. The lymphatics of the scrotum in the male, and of the parts corresponding thereto in the female, and the lymphatics of the other external generative organs in the female, run with the superficial external pudic arteries to the superficial inguinal glands. It will be noted that the lymphatics of the testicle pass with the spermatic artery to the lumbar glands. The superficial lymphatics of the perinseum run upwards over the adductor muscles, through the fork between the thighs, and join the superficial inguinal glands. (2) The deep parietal lymphatics.—The deep lymphatics of the anterior and lateral abdominal walls accompany the parietal vessels to the back of the abdomen, where they end in the deep glands. Thus some follow the deep epigastric artery to the external iliac glands; others the deep circumflex iliac artery also to the external iliac glands; and others, again, the ilio-lumbar and lumbar arteries to the lateral lumbar glands. The last are also joined by the lymphatics from the muscles of the back and from the spinal cord. The deep lymphatics from the upper part of the abdominal wall pass, with the superior epigastric artery, into the thorax, where they end in the internal mammary lymphatic glands. The deep lymphatics of the pelvic walls accompany the parietal vessels, and hence are found with the obturator, sciatic, gluteal, pudic, and sacral arteries. They end in the glands surrounding the internal iliac artery, and in the sacral glands. 2. The parietal lymphatic glands lie, for the most part, along the back of the abdomen and pelvis, and are known, from their position, as the external iliac, internal iliac, sacral, lumbar, and coeliac glands.