THE LYMPHATICS 702 II. THE VISCEBAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS The lymphatics of the pelvic and abdominal viscera are considered separately. 1. The lymphatics of the pelvic viscera.—The lymphatics of the bladder pass partly backwards, beneath the peritonemii, to join the rectal lymphatics, or the lymphatics of the uterus and vagina in the female ; and partly forwards, to join the prostatic lymphatics and the lymphatics of the vesiculse seminales. These anterior sets of lymphatics, together with those from the prostate and vesiculffi seminales, pass through the anterior true ligaments of the bladder, in which there is a small gland, into the internal iliac lymphatics. The lymphatics of the rectum run backwards between the two layers of the meso-rectum, in which there are four or five glands, through the sacral to the lumbar glands. The lymphatics of the uterus, vagina, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes.—The superficial lymphatics of the uterus, which lie beneath the peritoneum, pass, together with those of the substance of the fundus and upper part of the body of the organ, outwards, in the broad ligament, where they join the lymphatics from the ovaries and Fallopian tubes, and pass up, with the ovarian vessels, to the lumbar glands. The lymphatics from the lower part of the body and from the cervix of the uterus run, together with most of the lymphatics of the vagina, along the course of the uterine and vaginal vessels, and terminate in the internal iliac glands. The lymphatics from the lower part of the vagina join the superficial inguinal glands. The lymphatics of the testicle accompany the spermatic vessels, and terminate in the lumbar glands. Hence in carcinoma of the testicle the lumbar glands are those which first become enlarged, the inguinal not being affected until the skin of the scrotum becomes involved in the disease. 2. The lymphatics of the abdominal viscera are divided into—(1) The lymphatics of the stomach ; (2) the intestines ; (3) the liver; (4) the spleen; (5) the pancreas ; (6) the kidneys ; (7) the ureters ; and (8) the suprarenal capsules. (1) The lymphatics of the stomach begin in the mucous and subserous coat, and thence follow the course of the blood-vessels. Thus some run upwards to the lesser curve of the stomach, others downwards to the greater curve, and others left- wards to the greater end. In this way, three chief sets are formed—the superior gastric, the inferior gastric, and the left gastric lymphatics, {a) The superior gastric follow the course of the coronary vein along the lesser curvature towards the cardiac end of the stomach, lying between the layers of the lesser omentum. They pass on their way through five or six small (superior gastric) lymphatic glands. Eeaching the cardia, they turn downwards, and, having been joined by some of the lymphatics from the left lobe of the liver, enter the upper coeliac glands. (b) The inferior gastric lymphatics follow the course of the right gastro-epiploic vessels towards the pylorus, along the greater curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the greater omentum. After passing through six or eight small glands (inferior gastric), they are joined by the lymphatics from the upper part of the duodenum, and run between the pylorus and pancreas to the coeliac glands, (c) The left gastric lymphatics run with the vasa brevia, between the folds of the gastro- splenic omentum, to the splenic lymphatic glands. The lymphatic glands of the stomach are the superior and inferior gastric glands. The superior gastric glands, five or six in number, are situated along the lesser curve between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. They receive the