SUBGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY 1180 of the zygoma, (ii) The deeper layer, which forms the stylo-mandibular ligame |. Crossing the sterno-mastoid a little obliquely, in a line drawn from the angle o the jaw to the centre of the clavicle, runs the external jugular vein. About an incl and a half above the clavicle it perforates the deep cervical fascia, its coats bein* blended with the opening. The dilated part between this point and the subclaviai vein is called the sinus, and is marked by two valves, neither of which is usuall perfect. Joining this vein, about the centre of the triangle, is the posterior externa jugular from the occipital region; w^hile just above the clavicle the posterior an( suprascapular, transverse cervical, and a branch from the cephalic, form a plexu over the third part of the subclavian. If the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid be traced up, the spinal accessor; nerve, which has entered the muscle about an inch below the tip of the mastoic emerges from beneath the posterior border about its centre, and then, continuin its oblique course across the posterior triangle, disappears on a level with the sixt | i Fig. 677.—Kegion of the Third Part of the Subclavian Artery. (Bellamy.) (The shoulder represented depressed.) A 8~ Costo-coraeoid membrane and cephalic vein or seventh cervical spine beneath the trapezius, and descends under this mus(; internal to the vertebral border of the scapula (Godlee). Just above the centre oft; sterno-mastoid, the small occipital, great auricular, and transverse cervical nen I emerge, the first passing upwards and backwards to the scalp, the second upwai • and forwards across the upper part of the sterno-mastoid to the ear, and the 1;! turning straight forward to the front of the neck. j Deep cervical fascia.—The arrangement of this must be remembered—(a) abo i and {h) below, the hyoid bone. The latter is far the more important. | {a) Arrangement above the hyoid bone.—Here two chief layers, superficj and deep, can be made out:—(i) The superficial, traced upwards from the hyf bone, encloses the submaxillary gland, passing over'^the mylo-hyoid, and, ascendii j gives off the masseteric and parotid fasciae, and is attached to the lower bori |'