141 THE CABPUS The Trapezium The trapezium is the first bone of the distal row ; it is very irregular in shape. The inferior surface is saddle-shaped, and articulates with the base of the first metacarpal bone. The superior surface has a facet for the scaphoid. The inner (ulnar) surface has two facets ; the lower and smaller is for the base of the second metacarpal, the upper and larger for the trapezoid. The radial and Fig. 143.—The Left Trapezium. the ridge groove for flexor carpi radialis for first metacarpal dorsal surfaces are rough for ligaments. The palmar surface presents a prominent ridge, which has to its ulnar side a deep groove which transmits the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. To the ridge of the trapezium the anterior annular ligament Fig. 144.—The Left Trapezoid. palmar surface for trapezium for second metacarpal FOR SCAPHOID - FOR TRAPEZOID " FOR SECOND METACARPAL is attached. The palmar surface affords attachment to the abductor, flexor ossis, flexor brevis, and sometimes a portion of the extensor ossis metacarjjl j^ollicis. Articulations.—With the scaphoid, trapezoid, and the first and second meta- carpal bones. The Trapezoid The trapezoid is also very irregular in shape, and much smaller than the trapezium. It has a broad dorsal surface; the narrow palmar surface gives origin to a few fibres of the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The portion Fig. 145.^—The Left Magnum. FOR SEMILUNAR- FOR SCAPHOID THE RADIAL OR OUTER SIDE FOR TRAPEZOID FOR SECOND METACARPAL FOR THIRD METACARPAL FOR SEMILUNAR FOR UNCIFORM THE ULNAR OR INNER SIDE FOR FOURTH METACARPAL of bone between these surfaces is constricted and mapped out into articular facets; of these, the inferior is most conspicuous ; it is saddle-shaped for the base of the second metacarpal. The radial surface has a facet for the trapezium ; the ulnar surface is articular for the magnum ; and the superior surface has a facet for the scaphoid. Articulations.—With the trapezium, magnum, scaphoid, second metacarpal.