THE ABTEBIES 568 5. The nutrient artery of the ulna may be given off from the main trunk of the | ulnar artery, or from one of its muscular branches, or from the anterior inter- 1 osseous artery. I 6. The posterior ulnar carpal comes off from the ulnar artery a little above | the anterior annular ligament, and, winding inwards round the end of the ulna i or the internal lateral ligament of the wrist, beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris, j ramifies on the bach of the carpus beneath the extensor tendons. It forms by ' its anastomosis with the posterior radial carpal and with the posterior branch of | the anterior interosseous and with the posterior interosseous arteries, a plexus | or rete, the so-called posterior carpal arch. The branches given off from this j plexus or arch are described with the posterior carpal branch of the radial artery i (page 574). i 7. The anterior ulnar carpal is a small branch given off from the ulnar artery I opposite the carpus. It passes beneath the flexor profundus digitormn to anasto- | mose with the anterior radial carpal, with terminal twigs of the anterior branch of the anterior interosseous, and with recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch, forming an anastomotic arch across the front of the carpus—the so-caUed anterior carpal arch or rete. II. Eelations of the Ulnae Arteey at the Weist ! The ulnar artery at the wrist may be said to extend from the upper to the lower ' border of the anterior annular ligament. It here lies immediately to the radial side j of the pisiform bone, and to the ulnar side of the hook of the unciform, the two bones ! forming for the vessel a protecting channel, which is further conA^erted into a short ! canal by the expansion of the flexor carpi ulnaris passing from the pisiform to the j hook of the unciform. The ulnar nerve in this situation is immediately to the ulnar side of the artery. ; Relations.—In front, it has, in addition to the expansion above mentioned, the skin and superficial fascia ; below, it rests on the annular ligament; internally are the ulnar nerve and pisiform bone ; externally, the hook of the unciform. The ulnar artery gives off' no named artery in this part of its course. j III. Eelations of the Ulnae Aeteey in the Palm (SUPEEFICIAL PaLMAE AeCH) The ulnar artery, on entering the palm, divides into two branches, the superficial and deep. The superficial branch (fig. 354), the direct continuation of the vessel, anastomoses with the superficial volar, a branch of the radial, forming what is then known as the superficial palmar arch. After descending a short distance towards the cleft between the fourth and fifth fingers, it turns outwards towards the thumb, forming a curve with its convexity towards the fingers and its concavity towards the muscles of the thumb, and anastomoses opposite the cleft between the index and middle fingers, at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the palm, with the superficial volar branch of the radial artery to complete the arch. A line drawn across the palm on a level with the thumb at a right angle to the hand will roughly indicate the situation of the arch. Relations.—In front: in addition to the skin and superficial fascia, the vessel is crossed successively, from within outwards, by the palmaris brevis, the palmar branch of the ulnar nerve, the palmar fascia, and the palmar branch of the median nerve.