OCCIPITO-FBONTALIS—OBBICULABIS BALPEBBABUM 455 linto close relation with the deep surface of the skin at the junction of the forehead and nose. Nerve-supply.—The occipitalis receives one of the divisions of the post-auricular branch from the facial or seventh cranial nerve. Its filaments enter the deep surface of the muscle close to the outer border. The frontalis is supplied by the temporal branch of the temporo-facial division 3f the facial nerve which is distributed to the deep surface near its outer border. Action.—The occipitalis draws back the epicranial aponeurosis, and with it the 3calp, which is intimately attached to its outer surface. Acting from behind, the I'rontalis raises the eyebrow. If these are fixed by the contraction of the orbicularis Dalpebrarum, the frontalis will draw forwards the epicranial aponeurosis and scalp. When both occipitales and frontales contract, they raise the eyebrows to the utmost 3xtent, and throw the skin of the forehead into transverse wrinkles, as in the Expression of surprise or horror. At the same time, on account of the direction of ihe hair-bulbs, which lie with a forward slant behind and a backward slant in front, ihere will be a simultaneous tendency to lift the hair shafts, and to make them stand on end, like quills upon the fretful porcupine.' When the frontalis alone contracts, taking its fixed point from above, a slight levation of the eyebrow is produced, as in the expression of attention. This is Iso accompanied by a transverse wrinkling of the forehead. Relations.—Superficially, the epicranial aponeurosis and its muscles are in very lose connection with the skin of the scalp and forehead, being only separated from t by granular fat which is contained in small compartments formed by fibrous epta extending from the aponeurosis to the deep surface of the skin. In the at lie the hair-bulbs and blood-vessels of the scalp. Beneath, it is separated from ' e pericranium and temporal fascia by very loose connective tissue. Variations.—The occipitalis may be continuous with the retrahens aurem. The fron- alis may have insertions into the external or internal angle of the frontal bone, the nasal rocess of the maxilla, or the nasal bone. THE MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS AND EYEBEOWS These are four in number—viz. the orbicularis palpebrarum, the tensor tarsi, e corrugator supercilii, and the levator palpebrse superioris. To these may be ded a fifth, the frontalis, which has been described. The levator palpebrae uperioris will be described with the orbital muscles. The only part of it which is 'sible in a dissection of the face is its broad expansion, which is intimately blended ith the front of the crescentic plate of condensed fibrous tissue called the upper rsal cartilage. 1. ORBICULAKIS PALPEBRARUM The orbicularis palpebrarum—named from the rounded shape of the majority f its fibres (orbiculus, a little circle) and its relation to the eyelids—is an oval eet with a long transverse diameter and so curved as to fit the i^rominences and epressions of the eyelids and the margin of the orbit. It consists of a marginal and a central division : the former stronger and called he orbital portion ; the latter thin and pale, and called the palbehral portion, oth have attachments to the tarsal ligaments, by which the so-called tarsal artilages are fastened to the margins of the orbit. The internal tarsal ligament, r tendo oculi, is a strong flat band of fibrous tissue about a sixth of an inch long 'th surfaces which look upwards and downwards. It arises from a projection upon