888 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE (circle of Haller), formed of fine branches derived from the short posterior cihary arteries ; fine twigs passing inwards from this ring to the optic nerve, join the vessels of the pial sheath, and {h) an indirect communication is thus brought about between the retinal and ciliary vessels. Finally, as the nerve passes through the choroid, there is (c) a direct connection between these two sets of vessels, the capillary network of the optic nerve being here continuous with the chorio-capillaris. Not infrequently, a branch from a short posterior ciliary artery pierces the optic papilla, and then courses over the adjoining retina (a cilio-retinal artery), supplying the latter in part in place of the central artery. The vena centralis retinae returns the blood of the corresponding artery. 2. The ciliary system of blood-vessels (pages 531, 532, and 664).—There are three sets of arteries belonging to this system, all derived directly or indirectly from the ophthalmic artery. (1) Short posterior ciliary arteries, twelve to twenty in number, pierce the sclerotic round the optic nerve entrance, and are distributed in the choroid. Before entering the eyeball, small twigs are given off to the adjoining sclerotic and to the dural sheath of the optic nerve. Fig. 479.—Surface of Choroid and Iris exposed by removal of Sclerotic and Cornea, showing Distribution of Blood-vessels and Nerves. (Twice natural size. After Zinn.) A CILIARY (2) Two long posterior ciliary arteries, piercing the sclerotic further from the nerve than the short ciliaries, run horizontally forwards between the sclerotic and choroid, one on each side of the globe. On arriving at the ciliary body, they join with the anterior ciliary arteries, forming the circulus iridis major, which sends off branches to the ciliary processes and the iris. The long ciliaries also give twigs to the ciliary muscle, and small recurrent branches run backwards to anastomose with the short ciliary arteries. The arteries of the iris run radially to the pupillary border, anastomosing with one another opposite the outer border of the sphincter so as to form the circulus iridis minor. (3) The anterior ciliary arteries come from the arteries of the four recti muscles, one or two from each; they run forwards, branching as they go, and finally pierce the sclerotic near the corneal border. Outside the globe they send twigs to the adjoining sclerotic, to the conjunctiva, and to the border of the cornea. After passing through the sclerotic the arteries enter the ciliary muscle, where they end in twigs to the muscle and to the circulus iridis major, and recurrent branches to the choroid.