SPINALIS DOBSI 445 The association of the two upper portions of the division is so close that they are sometimes described together under the name transversahs, the trachelo-mastoid being called the transversalis ccqntis to distinguish it from that part of the muscle which is inserted into the neck. All the upper elements of this long compound muscle have tendinous origins and insertions. The trachelo-mastoid portion is often found to have a tendinous intersection crossing its fleshy fibres. Nerve-supply.—The external divisions of the posterior branches of the lower cervical, all the thoracic, and the upper lumbar nerves. Action.—(1) To extend the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine ; (2) to flex it laterally ; (3) to extend and laterally flex the head, rotating the face to the same side. Relations.—Superficially, it is covered by the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, rhom- boidei, serratus posticus inferior and superior, and the two splenii; upon its inner border lie the spinalis dorsi and complexus. Upon its outer lie the muscles of the outer division and the external divisions of the posterior branches of the spinal nerves. Beneath lie the multifidus spin« and the semispinalis dorsi et colli. Inner Division The inner division consists usually of a single muscle, the spinalis dorsi; but sometimes a small muscle, the spinalis colli, continues the series into the neck. 8. SPINALIS DOESI The spinalis dorsi—named from its attachment to the spines in the dorsal region—is a musculo-tendinous band closely connected below with the aponeurosis on the back of the longissimus dorsi. Origin.—The erector spinffi, and especially that part which is attached to the two or three lower thoracic and the upper lumbar spines. Insertion.—The spines of the upper thoracic vertebrae. Structure.—Upon its posterior surface it is covered by a thick aponeurosis, from the upper edge and anterior surface of which fleshy fibres pass almost directly upwards, and are then inserted by means of four to eight tendons into as many of the upper thoracic spines. They are closely blended with the tendons of the semi- spinalis dorsi at their insertion. Nerve-supply.—The posterior branches of the thoracic nerves. Action.—To extend the thoracic spine. Relations.—Superficially, the two serrati postici, the latissimus dorsi, the rhomboidei and splenii; externally, the longissimus dorsi; deeply, the semispinalis dorsi and complexus. Variations of the erector spinae and its divisions.—The number of ribs or vertebrae from which the various parts of these divisions arise, or into which they are inserted, varies much. The insertions upon the lumbar vertebrae are often less numerous than those described. Occasionally the longissimus dorsi receives accessory fibres fi''om the lower ribs. Sometimes the portion of the longissimus dorsi, which arises from the transverse processes of the lower thoracic vertebrae, is separate from the rest of the muscle, and is inserted into the transverse processes of some of the upper thoracic vertebrae.