319 TEBES MINOB—SUBSCAPULABIS . 4. TERES MINOR ' The teres minor—named from its being the lesser of two somewhat cylindrical muscles {teres=Yo\mdi or cylindrical)—is a thick but narrow triangular or fan-shaped I sheet. Orig^in.—(1) The impression which occupies the upper two-thirds of the axillary border of the infraspinous fossa ; (2) septa which separate it from the infra-spinatus behind, and from the long head of the triceps, the subscapularis, and the teres major in front. Insertion.—(1) The lower of the three facets of the greater tuberosity of the humerus and the posterior surface of that bone for one inch below the facet; j(2) the capsule of the shoulder joint. Structure.—From a fleshy origin which terminates in a point below, its fibres diverge as they pass upwards and outwards to their insertion, which is by a short strong tendon into the lowest facet of the tuberosity, and the capsule of the shoulder 1 joint; below the facet it is inserted by fleshy or very short tendinous fibres. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the fifth cervical nerve) by the lower division of the circumflex nerve which enters the muscle upon its anterior surface near its insertion. The nerve is remarkable on account of the ganglion upon its trunk shortly before it passes into the muscle. Action.—The same as that of the preceding muscle, of which it may be con- sidered to form a part. It will therefore rotate the arm outwards and at the same time adduct. Relations.—Behind, the deltoid ; in front, the long head of the triceps, the teres major, and subscapularis. Above and internally, the dorsalis scapulae vessels run between it and the axillary border of the scapula. 5. SUBSCAPULARIS The subscapularis muscle—named from its position beneath the scapula—is a thick triangular and somewhat multipenniform sheet. Origin.—(1) The whole of the ventral surface of the scapula with the exception of the part near the neck, and the spaces at the upper and lower angles occupied by the serratus magnus; (2) the lower two-thirds of the grooved outer border of the scapula; and (8) the intermuscular septum between it and the teres minor and major muscles. Insertion.—(1) The lesser tuberosity of the humerus, and the part of the shaft immediately below it; (2) the front of the capsular ligament of the shoulder joint. Structure.—Its origin is by fleshy fibres from the surface of the bone, and also I by bipenniform bundles from the upper and lower surfaces of three or four septa I which are attached to the transverse ridges upon the venter scapulae, so that the whole muscle has a multipenniform arrangement. The fibres converge upwards and outwards upon a strong tendon which is hidden by fleshy fibres to within an inch of its insertion, the lower part of Avhich is also fleshy. A bursa intervenes between the tendon and the base of the coracoid process, and is usually in con- nection with the shoulder joint. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the fifth and sixth cervical nerves), by the short and part of the lower subscapular nerves. They enter the front surface of the muscle, the former near its upper, the latter near its outer border. Action.—It is the chief internal rotator of the humerus ; at the same time it adducts it after it has been elevated. It also has an important influence in ill