660 THE VEINS The right lateral sinus is usually the larger and the direct continuation of the superior longitudinal sinus, and hence conveys the chief part of the blood from the cortical surface of the brain and vault of the skull. The left lateral sinus is usually the smaller and the direct continuation of the straight sinus and hence returns the chief part of the blood from the central ganglia of the brain. The relation of the lateral sinus to the outside of the skull, especially to the mastoid process of the temporal bone, is of importance with reference to the opera- tions of trephining the mastoid cells, opening the tympanum, and exposing the sinus itself, in septic thrombosis, &c. The course of the sinus corresponds to a line drawn from the external occipital protuberance to the base of the mastoid process, or to the asterion, and thence over the back of the mastoid process in a curved line towards its apex. (8) The superior petrosal sinus (figs. 387, 388) runs at the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli, along the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It connects the cavernous with the lateral sinus. Leaving the outer and back part of the cavernous sinus just below the fourth nerve, it crosses the fifth nerve, and, after grooving the petrous bone, ends in the lateral sinus as the latter turns downwards on the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. It receives veins from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum, veins from the cerebellum, veins from the tympanum through the squamo-petrosal fissure, and sometimes the fronto- parietal veins of the diploe. (9) The inferior petrosal sinus (figs. 387, 388) runs along the hne of the petro- occipital suture, and connects the cavernous sinus with the commencement of the internal jugular vein. It is shorter than the superior petrosal, but considerably wider. As it crosses the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, it separates the glosso-pharyngeal from the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves. It receives veins from the inferior surface of the cerebellum, from the medulla and pons, and from the internal ear. The last issue through the aqueductus vestibuli and aqueductus cochleae. (10) The cavernous sinus (fig. 387) is an irregular shaped venous space situated between the meningeal and periosteal layers of the dura mater on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. It extends from the central end of the sphenoidal fissure in front to the apex of the petrous bone behind. Its outer wall is the more distinct, and contains in it, but separated from the blood by the lining membrane of the sinus, the third and fourth nerves, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, the nerves lying in the above-mentioned order from above downwards, and from Avithin outwards. The inner wall is less distinct, and is formed chiefly by the internal carotid artery and the sixth nerve, these structures being separated from the blood by the endothelial lining of the sinus. Above the carotid the inner wall is practically absent, the blood-space communicating across the middle line with the opposite sinus in front, behind, and below the pituitary body or hypophysis cerebri. (See Circulae Sinus.) The cavernous sinus is traversed by numerous trabecul^e or fibrous bands, so that there is no central space, but rather a number of endothelially-lined irregular lacunar cavities communicating with each other. Hence its name cavernous, from its resemblance to cavernous tissue. In front it receives the ophthalmic vein, with which it is practically continuous, and just above the third nerve the sinus alae parv^. Internally it communicates with the opposite sinus, and posteriorly it ends in the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. It also receives veins from the inferior surface of the frontal lobe of the brain, and some of the middle cerebral veins. Through the Vesalian vein, which runs in a minute foramen in the greater wing of the sphenoid bone, the sinus communicates with the pterygoid plexus of veins; through the venous plexus around the intraosseous portion of the internal carotid, with the internal jugular vein ; and through small