OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 892 of the foramen, and extends down and out so as -to embrace part of the opening of the sphenoidal fissure. Their origins may be said at first to form a short, common, tendinous tube, from which the individual muscles soon separate, taking the posi- tions indicated by their respective names. The external rectus has two origins from bone, one on either side of the sphenoidal fissure. But in the fresh state the fissure is here bridged across by fibrous tissue, from which this rectus also springs, so that its origin is in reality continuous. The part of this fibrous ring nearest i the foramen (corresponding to the origins of the superior and internal recti) is 1 closely connected with the outer sheath of the optic nerve. The remaining two j long muscles arise just outside the upper and inner part of the above-mentioned i ring, and are often partially united ; the levator palpebr^e tendon is in close relation ' to the origin of the superior rectus, while the superior oblique arises from the ' periosteum of the body of the sphenoid bone one or two millimetres in front of ; the origin of the internal rectus. I The four recti muscles lie rather close to the corresponding orbital walls for the | first half of their course, the superior rectus, however, being overlapped in part by : the levator palpebrae; they then turn towards the eyeball, running obliquely ; through the orbital fat, and are finally inserted by broad, thin tendons into the sclerotic in front of the equator. The thickest of these muscles is the internal rectus, next the external, then the inferior, and the superior rectus is the thinnest. Fig. 483.—Diagrammatic Eepresentation of Origins of Ocular Muscles at the Apex of the Eight Orbit. (After Schwalbe, slightly altered.) Superior rectus FOURTH NERVE ! Levator palpebrae superioris Lach rymal and f rontal vein—-^l^i^U^^ Origin of external rectus from fibrous bridge over splienoidal fissure Naso-ciliarij of fifth nerve SIXTH NERVE External rectus Superior oblique OPTIC FORAMEN AND NERVE Internal rectus Inferior rectus THIRD NERVE As regards length, the muscular belly of the superior rectus has the longest course, and the others diminish in the order—internal, external, and inferior rectus. The external rectus is supplied by the sixth nerve. The other three recti muscles are all supplied by the third nerve. The levator palpebrae superioris courses along the roof of the orbit close to the periosteum for the greater part of its course, partially overlapping the superior rectus ; it finally descends through the orbital fat, and widens out to be inserted into the root of the upper lid. It may be briefly described as being inserted in two distinct layers separated by a horizontal interval. The upper or anterior layer of insertion is fibrous, and passes in front of the tarsus, where it comes into relation with fibres of the orbicularis. The lower layer consists of smooth muscle (Miiller's superior palpebral muscle) and is inserted along the upper border of the tarsus. The levator has also connections with the sheath of the superior rectus. These different insertions of the muscle will be referred to later along with the description of the orbital fascise and of the upper eyehd. It gets its nervous supply from the third nerve, but the smooth muscle developed in its lower layer of insertion is supplied by the sympathetic nervous system. As its name expresses, its action is to raise the upper lid and to support it while the eye is open. The superior oblique runs forward close to the inner part of the orbital roof until it reaches the fossa trochlearis near the internal angular process, where it