143 THE METACARPUS Magnum, first year. Trapezium, fifth year. Scaphoid, sixth year. Trapezoid, eighth year. Pisiform, twelfth year. Unciform, second year. Cuneiform, third year. Semilunar, fourth year. THE METACAEPUS The metacarpus consists of five bones. Each metacarpal bone has a shaft, a rounded distal end termed the head, and a square-shaped proximal extremity ramed the base. The shaft is prismatic ; two surfaces of the prism are lateral, and he third dorsal. The lateral surfaces afford attachment to the interosseous muscles : on the palmar aspect of the shaft these surfaces approach each other, and for some distance are only separated by a prominent ridge. The dorsal surface is smooth and covered in the recent state by the tendons of the extensor muscles of the fingers. Near the base this surface is divided by a median ridge; as this [ridge passes to the distal end of the shaft, it divides and forms two ridges which terminate in a prominent tubercle on each side of the head of the bone. The smooth surface on each side of the median ridge on the dorsal aspect, near the base, is for a dorsal interosseous muscle. The base is quadrilateral; its palmar and dorsal surfaces are rough for ligaments ; the upper end articulates with the carpus, and its lateral aspects have facets for adjacent metacarpals. The head i has a semilunar articular surface for the base of the first phalanx, and is more extensive on the palmar than the dorsal aspect. On its palmar surface the head is grooved for flexor tendons, each corner of the groove being surmounted by a tubercle. The sides of the head are compressed, and each side is occupied by a well-marked fossa. The several metacarpals present distinctive characters. The fiest is the most peculiar; it is the shortest, and its shaft resembles that of a phalanx. It has a concave palmar surface, and the dorsal surface lacks the bifurcated ridge. The base has a saddle-shaped articular surface for the trapezium, and at its outer (radial) corner presents a tubercle for the insertion of the extensor ossis metacarin ijollicis. The head of the bone presents on its palmar aspect two shallow grooves for the sesamoids in the flexor brevis imllicis. Muscles:— Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis. First dorsal interosseous. Opponens pollicis. Interosseus primus volaris. Blood-supply.—The nutrient vessel is derived from the princeps pollicis artery : it enters on the ulnar side, and is directed towards the head of the bone. Fig. 147.—The First (Left) Metacarpal. RADIAL SIDE ULNAR SIDE