THE CALCANEUM 175 The inner surface is deeply concave, the hollow being increased by the over- hanging sustentaculum tali in front and above, and the prominent inner tubercle posteriorly. The under aspect of the sustentaculum is deeply grooved for the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, whilst the hollow below receives the plantar vessels and nerves. Its lower border serves for the attachment of the inner head of the flexor accessorius. The margin of the sustentaculum has attached to it a 'part of the deltoid ligament. The anterior surface is a concave articular facet for the posterior surface of j the cuboid. Its outer and superior angle is somewhat prominent. The posterior surface is roughly rounded, and at the lower part serves for the attachment of the tendo Achillis. At its upper part it is smooth, and is in relation with a bursa. Articulations.—The calcaneum articulates with the cuboid, the astragalus, and with the OS trigonum when it exists as a separate element. Muscles attached to the calcaneum:— Extensor brevis digitorum. Abductor ossis metatarsi quinti. Abductor hallucis. Accessorius. Flexor brevis digitorum. Tendo Achillis. ! Abductor minimi digiti. Plantaris. And a slip from the tibialis posticus. Ligaments :— i Internal lateral of ankle. ' Anterior annular. j External lateral of ankle. Calcaneo-astragaloid (interosseous). Superior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. External calcaneo-astragaloid. Inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. Posterior calcaneo-astragaloid. Internal annular. Superior calcaneo-scaphoid. External annular. Inferior calcaneo-scaphoid. i Blood-supply.—The calcaneum is a vascular bone, and derives its blood from the posterior tibial, and the internal and external malleolar arteries. I Ossification.—^The primary nucleus for this bone is deposited in the sixth month j of embryonic life. In the tenth year a nucleus appears for the epiphysis at the ! heel, and unites with the body of the bone at the sixteenth year. The inner and I outer tubercles are formed by the epiphysis. THE CUBOID This bone is situated on the outer side of the tarsus; its posterior surface is reniform in shape and articular for the anterior face of the calcaneum. The anterior surface is smaller, and divided by a low vertical ridge; the inner facet Fig. 174.—The Left Cuboid. (Inner view.) FOR EXTERNAL CUNEIFORM WW^L W JP- ' 1—FOR FOURTH METATARSAL FOR CALCANEUM GROOVE FOR TENDON OF THE PERONEUS LONGUS is for the base of the fourth, the outer facet receives the base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. The upper (dorsal) surface is rough and non-articular. The inferior (plantar) surface is divided by a prominent ridge, which limits a deep furrow directed