38 THE SKELETON with the malar. Posteriorly the lower border ends in a tubercle, which is the meeting point of two ridges ; of these, the anterior passes inwards at right angles to the zygoma, and expands into the articular eminence which serves as an articular facet for the condyle of the mandible when the month is opened. The second ridge runs backwards and forms the upper boundary of the glenoid fossa, and cur\-ing downwards ends in a tubercle, the post-glenoid tubercle, immediately anterior to the Glaserian fissure. The oval deep depression between these ridges is the glenoid fossa, which receives the condyle of the mandible. This fossa is limited posteriorly by the Glaserian fissure. The inner surface of the squamosal presents furrows for the convolutions of the brain and grooves for the middle meningeal arteries. The line of union between the squamosal and petrosal is sometimes indicated by a persistent petrc-squamosal suture. Rarely the two ])ortioris reiiuiin permanently separate. The superior border of the squamosal is thin, and bevelled on the cerebral surface where it overlaps the parietal; anteriorly it is serrated for the posterior border of the greater wing of the sphenoid. Posteriorly it joins the rough serrated margin of the petrosal to form the parietal notch. The petrosal element is a four-sided pyramid of very dense bone ; its base is Fig. 44.—The Left Temporal Bone. (Inner view.) formed by the mastoid process ; the apex is rough and forms part of the boundary of the foramen lacerum medium. Two sides of the pyramid x)roject into the cranial cavity, of which one forms the posterior boundary of the middle fossa, and the other the anterior boundary of the posterior fossa of the cranium. Of the two remaining surfaces, one appears on the under surface of the skull, and the fourth constitutes the inner wall of the recess called the tympanum. The posterior surface is bounded above by the superior border, which serves for the attachment of the tentorium cerebelh, and is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus ; near the apex, this border presents the trigeminal notch (converted into a foramen by the tentorium) for the transmission of the trigeminal nerve. This border in old skulls sometimes terminates in a spiculum of bone—the petro-sphe- noidal process—and extends to the dorsum ephippii, and completes a foramen (petro-sphenoidal) which transmits the sixth nerve. Near the middle of the posterior surface is an oblique inlet, the internal auditory meatus, which receives the auditory and facial nerves and the auditory artery. The meatus is about 10 mm. deep, and to be properly examined the surface of the bone should be cut away, or the parts studied in the petrosal of a foetus at or near the ninth month, for it is at this date relatively large and shallow.