561 BE AC HIAL .iparated by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery), on the inner lead of the triceps, on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and thence to its ifurcation on the brachialis anticus muscle. I External to the artery is the coraco-brachialis above, and the muscular belly of le biceps below, both of which slightly overlap the vessel, and at the bend of the bow the tendon of the biceps. The external vena comes is also to its outer side, he median nerve is in close contact with the outer side of the artery in the upper lird of its course, but in the middle third crosses the artery obhquely to gain the jiner side. Internal to the artery in the upper part of its course are the internal cutaneous id the ulnar nerves ; the latter nerve, however, leaves the artery about the origin I the inferior profunda branch, to make, with that vessel, for the internal condyle, ower down, the internal cutaneous nerve also leaves the artery, by piercing the ^ep fascia. The median nerve is in close contact with the inner side of the artery [ its lower third and at the bend of the elbow. The basilic vein is superficial to it, lid a little to its inner side in the greater part of its course, but separated from i by the deep fascia. The internal vena comes runs along its inner side. The Variations in the Brachial Artery The chief variations in the brachial artery are :—(1) A high division into its terminal [■anches. The high division may occur at any spot in the normal course of the vessel, but 1 most common in the upper third of the arm, and least common in the middle third. The /o vessels into which the brachial then divides as a rule run parallel to each other to the aid of the elbow in the usual situation of the brachial, whence one follows the normal lOTse of the radial artery through the forearm, and the other takes the normal com'-se of , e ulnar artery, giving off as usual the common interosseous artery. This arrangement ay be considered a simple high division of the brachial. At other times the disposition of ! e two vessels is different : thus (i) the two arteries may communicate at the elbow by a OSS branch, or reimite, and then again divide in the usual manner, (ii) One vessel may How the course of the ulnar artery in the forearm, and the other divide into the radial and I mmon interosseous. This condition is spoken of as a high origin of the ulnar, (iii) One jtery may divide into the radial and ulnar as usual, and the other take the course of the immon interosseous and divide into the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries; or, iich more rarely, take the course of the posterior interosseous artery, the anterior inter- seous coming from the ulnar, (iv) The vessels may follow a course in the upper arm fferent to that of the normal brachial. Thus (A) the branch representing the radial may !) cross over or under the other branch; (6) perforate the deep fascia above the elbow, ■d run beneath the skin to its place in the forearm; or (c) pass behind the tendon of the 3eps. (B) The branch representing the ulnar may {a) run to the front of the inner condyle th the median nerve, and thence reach its usual situation by descending from within I twards beneath the fascia and pronator teres, or, more rarely, beneath some of the flexor kiseles, or merely beneath the skin; or (&) it may run with the ulnar nerve behind the liier condyle, and thence beneath the muscles to its usual place in the forearm. (2) An llarged vas aherrans may be present. This is a long slender vessel, which arises from the iachial usually near the origin of the superior profunda, and joins most commonly the jiial artery, or, more rarely, one of its branches, or the ulnar. It is said to be usually jesent, though not admitting of complete injection, and to descend over the median nerve the biceps muscle. At times this vessel takes the place of the brachial; the median |rve will then be found behind the artery. (8) The brachial may run with the median rve towards the inner condyle, where it then usually turns round a supracondyloid process ier the course normally taken by the artery in the Felidae, in which it rmis through a pracondyloid foramen. Thence it descends to its normal situation beneath the pronator "es, which then usually arises from a fibrous expansion from the process. (4) The brachial ly be covered by various muscular slips derived from the adjacent muscles. (5) Certain (normalities in the giving off of its collateral branches. These are referred to under each jinch. j Branches of the Brachial Artery I The branches of the brachial artery are :—(1) The superior profimda ; (2) the [ferior profunda ; (3) the anastomotica magna ; (4) the nutrient; (5) the muscular ; i^d (6) the terminal branches—the radial and ulnar arteries. 0 0