249 THE BADIO-CABPAL idthout inwards and from within outwards. Abduction being more limited than l,dduction, and being checked by the internal lateral ligament and by contact of he styloid process of the radius with the trapezium ; adduction being checked by he external lateral ligament alone. One reason for adduction being more free ban abduction is that the ulna does not reach so low down as the radius, and [he yielding fibro-cartilage allows of greater movement upwards of the inner end of he carpus. In circumduction the hand moves so as to describe a cone, the apex if which is at the wrist. These movements are made more easy and extensive by he slight gliding of the carpal bones upon one another, and the comparatively ree motion at the medio-carpal joint. The oblique direction of the fibres of the ateral ligaments prevents any rotation at the radio-carpal joint, while it permits honsiderable freedom of abduction and adduction. 7. THE CARPAL JOINTS I The joints of the carpus may be subdivided into— {a) The joints of the first row. [h) The joints of the second row. I (c) The medio-carpal, or junction of the two rows with each other. {a) The Union of the Fiest Row of Caepal Bones I Class.—Diar thro sis. Subdivision.—Arthroclia. The bones of the first row, the pisiform excepted, are united by two sets of igaments and two interosseous fibro-cartilages. Dorsal. Palmar. Interosseous fibro-cartilages. The two dorsal ligaments extend transversely between the bones, and connect :the scaphoid with the semilunar, and the semilunar with the cuneiform. Their posterior surfaces are in contact with the posterior ligament of the wrist. The two palmar ligaments extend nearly transversely between the bones connecting the scaphoid with the semilunar, and the semilunar with the cuneiform. They are stronger than the dorsal ligaments, and are placed beneath the anterior ligament of the wrist. I The two interosseous fibro-cartilages (fig. 235) are interposed between the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar and cuneiform bones, reaching from the dorsal to the palmar surfaces, and being connected with the dorsal and palmar ligaments. They are narrow fibro-cartilages which extend between small portions only of the osseous surfaces. They help to form the convex carpal surface of the radio-carpal joint, and are somewhat wedge-shaped, their bases being towards [the wrist, and their thin edges between the adjacent articular surfaces of the bones. The synovial membrane is a prolongation from that of'the medio-carpal joint. The arterial and nerve supplies are the same as for the medio-carpal joint. The Union of the Pisifoem Bone with the eest of the Fiest Row This is an arthrodial joint which has a loose fibrous capsule attached to both the pisiform and cuneiform bones just beyond the margins of their articular surfaces. It is hned by a separate synovial membrane. Two strong rounded or flattened bands pass downwards from the pisiform, one to the process of the unciform, and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone ; these may be regarded as