METENGEPHAL ON 763 peduncles, and ends in the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum in the nucleus fastigii. As already mentioned, the superficial origins of the cranial nerves appear on the surface of the medulla. The sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves come to the surface in the transverse groove between the medulla and pons (fig. 441). The twelfth nerve appears by a row of filaments in the groove between the olivary and pyramidal bodies, and in a line with these filaments, opposite the decussation of the pyramids, the upper part of the anterior root of the first cervical nerve comes to the surface. Between the olivary and restiform bodies, the ninth, tenth, and the upper part of the eleventh nerves make their appearance, and behind the latter the upper filaments of the posterior root of the first cervical nerve reach the surface. Dissection.—If the student has followed out the dissection previously recommended, the brain will now be reduced to the medulla, the pons, the mesencephalon, and small portions Fig. 430.—Transverse Section of the Pons near the Centre of the Fourth Ventricle. (Schwalbe.) SEVEST/I NERVE NUCLEUS OF SIXTH of the hemispheres (chiefly thalamencephalon). He should now tear off the transverse fibres of the pons on one side of the middle line, so as to bring into view the flattened bundles which form the continuation of the p,yraniidal body tlu^ongli the pons. By tearing these pyramidal fibres in a sagittal direction, the dissector will be able to follow them through the crusta into the inner capsule. Lastly the dissector should make a series of transverse sections through the remaining portion of brain-substance. An inspection of figs. 423, 424, 429, 430, and 431 will materially aid him in comprehending the somewhat faint indications which he wiU observe in his sections. The following are the j)rincipal points which can be made out by the unaided eye in an ordinary brain, hardened in spirit, and treated in the above-mentioned manner. (In a brain hardened in Miiller's fluid many additional details can be made out.) In the upper- most sections the tegmental or red nucleus is readily recognised by its romided outline; it lies below the optic thalamus, and extends backwards for a considerable distance (fig. 423). If the section pass through the external geniculate body, curved bands of white matter intersecting the grey matter can be seen. Sections through the upper part of the mesen- cephalon show the red nucleus in the tegmentum, the substantia nigra, the crusta, and the aqueduct of Sylvius. Lower down, the decussation of the superior peduncles of the cere- bellum forms a conspicuous white centre in the tegmentmn ; the grey matter surrounding the aqueduct is distinct in colour from the rest of the section, and on the ventral side of this grey matter the posterior longitudinal bundle can be faintly made out. Sections through the inferior corpora quadrigemina show the posterior longitudinal bundle more distinctly ; the superior peduncles of the cerebellum lie on the ventral side of the bundle, touching one another at the raphe, but commencing to rise up around the sides of the aqueduct; ventral to these the tract of the fillet may be seen as a white band; and ventrally