299 THEIB ACTION AS LEVEBS 6. Action.—Most muscles act upon the levers formed by the movable bones and ; cartilages. It will be convenient, however, first to speak of those which do not act in this manner. When a muscle passes from a fixed point like a bone to a freely movable point such as the under surface of the skin or mucous membrane, it will simply tend to approximate the movable point to the fixed origin. Such muscles are found in abundance in the face, and the azygos uvul^ is a good example of one t which acts upon mucous membrane. Again, the fibres of many muscles run in jparallel curves, which combine to form a curved band or sheet. The first effect of the contraction of such a muscle will be to straighten or flatten out the curve, jif this lies over a convex surface, as is usually the case, the action of the muscle will be to compress the structures lying in its concavity. The buccinator and abdominal muscles are good examples of this form of muscle. Or if the surface 1 upon which the curved sheet lies is concave, the muscle will tend by its contraction I to lift up the soft parts upon its deep or convex surface. As an instance of this we lhave the influence of the platysma myoides upon the fascia and other structures [which overlie the great vascular channels of the neck and the apices of the lungs. In estimating the effect of muscles acting upon the levers formed by the bones, each of which moves upon a joint as its fulcrum, three points have to be taken into consideration :—(1) the order of lever ; (2) the distance from the fulcrum of the points of application of the force at the insertion of the muscle, and of the resistance to be overcome ; and (3) the direction in which the force is applied. It will be found that whereas in most levers employed in mechanics the object aimed at is I what is called mechanical advantage, i.e. by the application of a small force to overcome a greater resistance ; in the human body the object is, on the contrary, by the exertion of a great force through a small space to overcome a small resist- ance, but at the same time to cause motion through a much greater space, and with a much greater speed. In the three orders of levers, the fulcrum is placed either between the power and the resistance (first order) ; or at one end, with the power at the other, and the resistance to be overcome between (second order); or at one end with the power in the middle, and the resistance to be overcome at the other end (third order). The power required to overcome the resistance varies inversely with the distance of its point of application from the fulcrum. Where this distance, or the arm of the lever as it is called, is short compared with the arm at which the resistance acts, then the power has to be greater than the resistance, and vice versa. In the first order of levers, if the power and resistance act parallel to one another, there may or may not be a gain of mechanical advantage, according as the arm at which the power acts is greater or less than the arm at which the resistance acts. In the second order of levers there must necessarily be mechanical advantage ; and in the third order the power must be greater than the resistance, as it has to act upon a shorter arm, so there will be what may be termed mechanical disadvantage. In the human body there is hardly a single muscle which forms a good example of a lever of the second order, for the simple reason that mechanical advantage is of so much less importance than a wide range of movement with its attendant j rapidity. The best example that can be given is that of some of the muscles which depress the mandible, e.g. the anterior belly of the digastric, which is inserted into |the extremity of the lever formed by that bone, while the resistance to be overcome \—viz. the tonic contraction of the masseter, temporal, and internal pterygoid— is exerted at a point much nearer to the fulcrum upon which the mandible turns. The muscles which are inserted upon the tendo Achillis are often given as an "xample of this order of lever, when by their contraction they raise the heel and llift up the body, the weight of which acts upon the lever of the foot through the |ankle joint. This would be a good example if another person were to lay hold of the tendo Achillis, and by drawing upon it to raise the individual from the ground, ut the fact that the other end of the muscle springs from a part of the mass to