785 COBONA BADIATA without doubt passes into the mesencephalon, but its exact course cannot be followed with certainty. The inferior peduncle of the thalamus is partly formed by a sagitally-directed bundle which passes backwards through the substance of the thalamus between the anterior pillar of the fornix and the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr. This bundle is joined by fibres from the superior surface of the thalamus (stratum zonale). The fibres from the stratum zonale pass from the superior to the internal surface of the thalamus, and finally, reaching the inferior surface of that body, join the sagittal bundle first mentioned to form the inferior peduncle ; the latter now passes outwards below the ansa lenticularis and ends in the cortex of the temporal lobe. (c) The bundle of Vicq d'Azyr passes from the anterior tubercle of the thalamus to the nucleus of the corpus albicans. It might be regarded as a consti- I tuent of the corona radiata—the nucleus of the corpus albicans being considered as 1 modified cortex. The white matter of the cerebral hemispheres contains the following systems of fibre : (a) The corona radiata ; {h) commissural or interhemispheric fibres ; (c) association or intrahemispheric fibres. These three systems of fibres are disposed in more or less defined tracts which can be unravelled by dissection, but in certain situations where the difierent tracts cross one another the arrangement becomes more complicated. This is notably the case in the region where the fibres I of the corpus callosum intersect the fibres of the inner capsule. !The corona radiata is the name given to the prolongation of the fibres of the inner capsule into the hemisphere. It is continued upwards from the inner capsule as a somewhat narrow band (peduncle of the corona radiata), but the fibres soon spread out like a fan and proceed to the cerebral cortex. It will be well at this stage to re-examine the constitution of the inner capsule; the latter contains three sets of fibres, namely : (a) Fibres which pass from the crusta of the crus cerebri directly into the corona radiata without the intervention of nerve-cells ; [h) fibres passing from the mesencephalon into the optic thalamus and corpus striatum; and (c) fibres from the thalamus (part of the corona radiata of that body) ; and from the corpus striatum to the cerebral cortex. We have already seen (page 742) that I the inner capsule shows in horizontal section an anterior limb, a posterior limb Iand a genu. The fibres which occupy the most anterior part of the anterior limb belong to the corona radiata of the optic thalamus. Behind these fibres is a tract which extends nearly to the genu ; this tract is formed by fibres which are derived from the frontal lobe, and although their function is not accurately known they [ are supposed to be associated with the higher intellectual functions. Traced down- wards, this bundle passes into the crusta, forming rather more than the inner fifth of that body, and from thence enters the pons, where a part of it seems to terminate j (frontal pontine tract). Its further course is unknown. The portion of the inner \ capsule immediately in front of the genu is intimately associated with the faculty of speech ; it passes in the crusta immediately external to the frontal pontine tracts. The genu conveys fibres from the cortex cerebri to some of the motor cranial nerves. These fibres pass immediately external to the preceding (aphasia) bundle, and probably decussate in the pons to become connected to the nuclei of the facial and hypoglossal nerves, and to the motor nucleus of the trigeminal. The anterior two-thirds of the posterior limb of the inner capsule is formed by the pyramidal 1 tract which has already been sufficiently described (page 780). The posterior third of the posterior limb of the inner capsule is formed by sensory fibres comprising the optic radiation ; the latter proceeds exclusively from the occipital lobe. The I remaining sensory fibres are derived from the occipital and temporal, and to I a certain extent from the parietal, lobes. They descend in the crusta, occupying the outer third of that body. As this sensory tract traverses the crusta, its outer- j most part is formed by fibres derived from the fillet (page 782). 3 E