THE MUSCLES 384 (2) the descending ramus of the os pubis immediately internal to the foramen (3) the ascending ramus of the ischium internal to the foramen. Insertion.—The digital fossa upon the inner surface of the great trochanter. Structure.—It is a fan-shaped triangular muscle which arises fleshy from th adjacent surfaces of bone and membrane, in a curve which is convex forwards ant inwards. From this wide origin the fibres converge outwards, and end below th acetabulum in a rounded tendon which passes behind and in close contact with th capsule of the joint to its insertion in the digital fossa. Not unfrequently a smal portion of the muscle is separated at its upper border from the rest by one or botJ of the divisions of the obturator nerve. Nerve-supply.—From the third and fourth nerves of the lumbar plexus by th deep division of the obturator nerve which distributes filaments to the deep surfac of the muscle as it is passing through it. Action.—To adduct and rotate outwards the thigh. Relations.—Behind, the obturator vessels, and at its insertion the quadratu femoris ; in front, the psoas muscle, the pectineus, and adductor brevis ; above, th obturator nerve, one or both branches of which perforate it, and more externall the capsule of the hip joint. THE HAMSTEING MUSCLES The hamstring muscles form a group at the back of the thigh, separate by intermuscular septa from the vastus externus on the outer, and the adductc magnus on the inner side. They consist of the biceps, semi-tendinosus and sem membranosus, and are supplied by the great sciatic nerve. Like the glutei] maximus their action is to extend the hip. 1. BICEPS FEMOEIS The flexor biceps femoris (figs. 288, 290)—named from its two heads—co]| sists of two parts : the longer head being somewhat fusiform, and the shorter triangular sheet. Origin.—The long head from (1) the internal and posterior facet at the back i the tuber ischii by a tendon common to it and the semi-tendinosus; (2) the lowi part of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The short head from (1) the outer 1: of the linea aspera from a point just above the middle of the bone down to tl bifurcation ; (2) the upper two-thirds of the outer division of the linea aspert (3) the external intermuscular septum. Insertion.—(1) A fossa below and in front of the styloid proces.s of the hei of the fibula; (2) the deep fascia covering the peronei muscles; (3) the out tuberosity of the tibia. Structure.—The origin of the long head is by a short tendon which is co: tinned down to the middle of the thigh by a septum which divides this muse from the semi-tendinosus. From this tendon and the outer surface of t] septum the muscular fibres arise in penniform fashion and form a fusiform bellj which receives at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh ti] thick sheet of muscular fibres derived from the short outer head. The tend(j commences upon the posterior surface of the muscle near its outer border aboa the middle of the thigh. At the back of the external condyle the fleshy fibr cease. The rounded tendon here widens into a thick aponeurosis, which embrac the anterior portion of the external lateral ligament at the point of its inserti'l into the outer and anterior facet of the head of the fibula. Between this tendj