THE ABTEBIES 550 cartilages to the pectoralis major, which they supply. The terminal twigs perforate that muscle close to the sternum, and are distributed to the integument. The second, third, and fourth perforating supply the inner and deep surface of the mammary gland, and become greatly enlarged during lactation. They frequently require ligation in excision of the breast. (7) The lateral infracostal artery (Macalister) is given off close to the first rib, and descends behind the ribs just external to the costal cartilages. It anastomoses with the upper intercostal arteries. This vessel is often of insignificant size, or absent. ! (8) The superior epigastric artery (fig. 344), or internal terminal branch of I the internal mammary artery, leaves the thorax behind the seventh costal carti- lage by passing through the costo-xiphoid space in the diaphragm. It is the direct prolongation of the;internal mammary downwards. In the abdomen it descends behind the rectus muscle, between its posterior surface and its sheath, and, lower, entering the substance of the muscle, anastomoses with the deep epigastric, a branch of the external iliac. It gives off the following small branches :—[a) The phrenic, to the diaphragm ; {h) the xiphoid, which crosses in front of the ensi- form cartilage, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side; (c) the cuta- neous, which perforate the anterior layer of the sheath of the rectus and supply the integuments ; {d) the muscular, to the rectus muscle, some of which perforate the rectus sheath laterally, and are distributed to the oblique muscles ; {e) the hepatic (on the right side only), which pass along the falciform ligament to the liver, and anastomose with the hepatic artery; (/) the peritoneal which perforate the posterior layer of the sheath of the rectus, and ramify on the peritoneum. (9) The musculo-phrenic, or external terminal branch of the internal mammary ! artery, skirts outwards and downwards behind the costal cartilages of the false ribs along the costal attachments of the diaphragm, which it perforates opposite the i ninth rib. It terminates, much reduced in size, at the tenth or eleventh intercostal I space by anastomosing with the ascending branch of the deep circumflex iliac artery. It gives off in its course the following small branches :—[a) The phrenic for the supply of the diaphragm ; {h) the anterior intercostals, two in number for each of the lower five or six intercostal spaces, are distributed like those to the upper spaces, already described, and anastomose like them with the corresponding branches of the lower aortic intercostals; (c) the muscular for the supply of the oblique muscles; of the abdomen. Beain^ches of the Second Part of the Sueclayiak Aeieey THE SUPEEIOE INTEECOSTAL AETEEY 1. The superior intercostal artery (fig. 845) usually arises from the back part of the second portion of the subclavian artery, behind the scalenus anticus on the right side, but sometimes just internal to that muscle on the left side. It at first runs backwards and a little upwards above the apex of the pleura, and then turns i downwards and enters the thorax in front of the neck of the first rib. It terminates - in a branch which runs forwards in the first intercostal space. Frequently, and j especially on the right side, it is continued in front of the neck of the second rib, and j supplies a branch to the second intercostal space. This branch may then be reinforced by an intercostal from the aorta, which supplies the space when the; branch is not present. As the superior intercostal crosses the neck of the first j rib, it lies internal to the anterior branch of the first dorsal nerve, and externa | | to the superior thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic. That part of the superior I intercostal which intervenes between its origin from the subclavian and its first I branch, is sometimes called the costo-cervical artery. I I