THE FEMUB 157 angle. The gluteus medius is inserted into this ridge ; a bursa occasionally inter- poses between the tendon and the bone. The inner surface presents a deep pit, the trochanteric fossa, which receives the tendon of the obturator extemus. The upper border, called the tip, gives attachment from before backwards to the tendons of the obturator internus with the gevielU, and the jjyriformis. The anterior border receives the gluteus minimus. The posterior border is thick, rounded, and con- tinuous with the posterior intertrochanteric line, which runs downwards to terminate at the lesser trochanter, a conical prominence on the posterior aspect of the femur to which the i^soas is inserted. Eunning downwards from the lesser trochanter to meet the spiral line is a slender ridge, to which the iliacus is inserted. The surface of bone slightly posterior to this ridge is occupied by the pcctineus. This part of the femur presents several converging ridges, which will be most con- veniently considered with the linea aspera. The shaft of the femur is cylindrical in shape, and presents, in the middle I third of its posterior aspect, a prominent vertical ridge of bone, the linea aspera, I for the origin and insertion of muscles. In the middle of the shaft the linea aspera presents an inner lip, an outer lip, and an intervening space. Towards the upper third of the shaft these three parts diverge : the outer lip becomes continuous with I the gluteal ridge, and ends at the base of the greater trochanter. When very prominent the gluteal ridge is termed the third trochanter. It affords attachment to the gluteus maximus. The inner lip curves inwards below the lesser trochanter^ I and becomes the spiral line. The middle portion of the linea aspera bifurcates, the I inner portion as it runs on to the lesser trochanter receives the iliacus ; the outer ! passes upwards to the centre of the posterior intertrochanteric line ; it receives j the quadratus femoris, and is called the linea quadrati. The upper limit of this line is often indicated by a rounded tubercle. Towards the lower third of the shaft, the inner and outer lips of the linea aspera diverge to become continuous with the condylar ridges. Several muscles are connected with the linea aspera. The vastus internus arises from the whole length of the inner lip, and the vastus externus from the outer lip. The adductor magnus is inserted into the upper half of the outer lip, and the lower half of the inner lip. The adductor long us and brevis are inserted into the intervening space ; the adductor longus takes rather more than the middle third, and overlaps the lower part of the adductor brevis, which takes rather more than the upper third. The outer lip in its lower two-thirds gives origin to the shorter head of the biceps. The condylar lines are two in number; the outer is continuous with the outer lip of the linea aspera and terminates inferiorly on the outer edge of the external condyle. From the upper half of this line a part of the short head of the biceps arises. Near its termination the line expands to give origin to the plantaris and the outer head of the gastrocnemius. The inner I condylar line is not so prominent as the outer ; it is continuous with the inner lip of the linea aspera, and terminates at the adductor tubercle. The adductor magnus is inserted into the whole length of the line and to the tubercle. Near the middle of the line there is an interruption where the femoral artery passes through the^ opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus. The inner head of the gastro- cnemius arises from the femur immediately above the internal condyle. The space enclosed between these diverging lines forms part of the anterior boundary of the- popliteal space, and is in close relation with the popliteal vessels. The shaft of the^ femur is overlapped on the inner side by the vastus internus, and on the outer side- by the vastus externus. The greater part of the anterior surface of the femoraL shaft affords origin to the crureus. The lower extremity presents two cartilage-covered condyles, separated by a. deep notch. The external condyle is more prominent anteriorly and wider than its fellow. The internal is more prominent posteriorly, and narrower; it is also longer, to compensate for the olliquity of the shaft. When the femur is properly