839 MEDIAN AND ULNAE NERVES (/) The external terminal division divides into two branches. The outer branch passes obhquely across the long flexor tendon of the thumb, and runs along the radial border of the thumb as far as its extremity. It gives numerous branches to the pulp of the thumb, and a strong twig which passes on to the dorsum to supply the matrix of the nail. The inner branch, after running a course varying from an eighth to a half an inch, divides into two digital collateral branches. The outer collateral branch supplies the ulnar side of the volar aspect of the thumb, and gives off a twig to the matrix of the thumb nail. The inner collateral branch is distributed in a similar manner to the radial side of the index finger. It gives off a twig to supply the first lumbrical muscle. (g) The internal terminal division divides into an outer and an inner branch. The outer branch gives a twig to supply the second lumbrical muscle, and divides a little above the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation into collateral branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers, and also give twigs to the dorsum of these digits. These dorsal twigs will be more particularly described later on (page 843). The inner branch communicates with the ulnar nerve and divides to supply the adjacent sides of the middle and ring fingers. Fig. 458.—Superficial Nerves of the Palm. (Ellis.) As the branches of the median nerve pass downwards in the palm of the hand, they cross the deep or posterior surface of the superficial palmar arch. This relation to the arteries is reversed in the fingers, where the digital arteries are placed behind the nerves. As each digital nerve pursues its course along the margin of the corresponding finger, it gives off twigs to the dorsum of the finger, particularly stout twigs passing to supply the matrix of the nail. Each nerve termmates in branches to the pulp of the finger, and on these terminal branches as well as on the more proximal twigs to the volar aspect of the fingers, ovoid bodies, about the size of millet seeds, are developed. These bodies are called Pacinian corpuscles, and are one of the forms of sensory nerve-terminations.