SABTOBIUS 369 Between these attachments it invests the front of the ihacus and psoas muscles. \.bove, it is continued upwards as the covering of the latter muscle, at the sides of ^rhich it is attached to the transverse processes and bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, ,s well as to the intervertebral discs and the small tendinous arches which bridge he side of the bodies of these vertebrae. At the diaphragm it is thickened, and forms, ^ijl^he ligamentum arcuatum internum; near the tips of the transverse processes of he lumbar vertebrae it is attached to the anterior layer of the lumbar fascia lie lid page 434). Below, it joins beneath the outer half of Poupart's ligament with the ransversalis fascia, but internal to this it passes downwards into the thigh, forming nth. the transversalis fascia the sheath of the femoral vessels. Still further wards, it is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata which invests ^^liBhe pectineus muscle, and it also sends backwards a septum between the psoas ,nd the pectineus which is attached to the ilio-pectineal eminence. _ 3. SARTORIUS k The sartorius—named somewhat erroneously from sartor, a tailor, because it ^IjjBlas been supposed to be the muscle by which the cross-legged sitting posture is reduced—is a long, ribbon-shaped muscle slightly fusiform at the two ends. Origin.—The anterior superior spine of the ilium and the adjacent part of the lotch between this process and the anterior inferior spine. Insertion.—(1) The front part of the inner surface of the tibia, just internal to leiBh^ tubercle ; (2) the upper part of the deep fascia covering the internal surface of Structure.—Arising by short tendinous fibres, the fleshy fibres which are the ngest in the whole body, run parallel to one another inwards and downwards cross the front of the thigh, and after reaching the inner surface of the thigh about he middle, the muscular band runs almost vertically downwards to the back of the jftid aternal condyle of the femur. At this point the tendon of insertion makes its ppearance as an aponeurosis which covers the deep aspect of the muscle and ecomes free from fleshy fibres just below the knee joint, where it turns forwards nd covers the inner surface of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, being separated fom it as well as from the tendons of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus by a large ursa. The upper border of this aponeurosis is thick and tendinous and is inserted irectly into the bone. The lower part of the aponeurosis, which is of a much more Qembranous character, is continued downwards and forwards and blends with the eep fascia of the inner side of the leg, of which it is one of the chief constituents. Nerve-supply.—From the second, third, and fourth branches of the lumbar lexus, by filaments which are usually derived from the middle cutaneous branch f the anterior crural nerve as it pierces the muscle at the junction of its middle and .'TJ^pper thirds. Action.—(1) To flex the thigh, and at the same time rotate it slightly outwards nd abduct it. (2) To flex the knee, and when the knee is in the bent position it nil also help in rotating the leg inwards. (3) Being contained in the close-fitting heath formed by the fascia lata and its deep processes, it will tend when it con- Jjlj^l racts to draw the soft parts upon the inner surface of the thigh forwards, and so Qake tense the inner portion of the fascia lata. (4) Acting from below, it will flex he pelvis upon the thigh. Relations.—In front above lies the fascia lata ; internally below lie the fascia ata and internal saphenous vein ; beneath lie the rectus femoris, iliacus, pectineus, -dductor longus and magnus, vastus internus, and the inner hamstring tendons, the emoral vessels, the anterior crural nerve and its internal saphenous and vastus nternus branches. BB iltkf lie,