187 VABIOUS ARTICULATIONS likind of articulation into which they enter. They are closely connected with the llperiostenm of the bones they unite. In some cases—as the ligamenta subflava llwhich unite parts not in contact—they are formed of yellow elastic tissue. Il The synovial membrane, lines the interior of the fibrous ligaments, thus llexcluding them, as well as the cushions or pads of fatty tissue situate within land the tendons which perforate the fibrous capsule, from the articular cavity, pt is a thin delicate membrane, frequently forming folds and fringes which [project into the cavity of the joint; or, as in the knee, stretches across the cavity, forming a so-called synovial ligament. In these folds are often pads of fatty tissue, which fill up interstices, and form soft cushions between the contiguous bones. Sometimes these fringes become villous and pedunculated, and cause pain in move- ments of the joints. They contain fibro-fatty tissue, with an isolated cartilage cell lor two. The synovial membrane is well supplied with blood, especially near the margins of the articular cartilages and in the fringes. It secretes a thick glairy fluid like white of egg, called synovia, which lubricates the joint. Another variety of synovial membrane is seen in the bursae, which are interposed between various moving surfaces. In some instances bursae in the neighbourhood of a joint may communicate with the synovial cavity of that joint. THE VARIOUS KINDS OF ARTICULATIONS I There are three chief varieties of joints—viz., synarthrodial, or immovable ; I amphiarthrodial, or yielding ; and diarthrodial, or movable joints. I Synarthrosis is the term applied to all immovable joints in which the apposed I surfaces or edges of the bones are in direct contact, as in the face bones, except the mandible, and all those of the skull; or where bone and cartilage are in I immediate union, as in the case of the first rib and the sternum, and the costal cartilages and the ribs. The unions of the bones of the skull and face are usually called sutures, of which there are three chief varieties True sutures, where the edges of bones are firmly implanted into one another by means of projecting processes, as in the sagittal, lambdoid, and coronal sutures. False sutures, where the rough edges of the bones are in simple contact Avithout interlocking, as in the intermaxillary suture ; or where they overlap one another, as in the squamous suture. Grooved sutures, where the edge or plate of one bone is received into a cor- ; responding groove in the other, as in the rostrum of the sphenoid and vomer, or vomer and palatine processes of the maxillae, and the horizontal plates of the palate bones. Amphiarthrosis is the term applied to mixed joints which permit of slight movements, the opposed bony surfaces being firmly united by a plate or disc of fibro-cartilage. There is sometimes a partial synovial membrane. Examples are seen in the spine, sacro-iliac, and pubic joints. Diarthrosis is the term applied to all movable joints in which the bones have smooth cartilage-covered surfaces, lubricated by synovia, and bound together by more or less perfect capsules. This class is subdivided into the following varieties :— 1. Arthrodia.—A simple gliding joint formed by the apposition of two plane, or nearly plane, surfaces, which allow motion in one or more directions. The articular processes of the vertebra, the joints of the carpus and tarsus, carpo-metacarpal, tarso-metatarsal, and intermetacarpal and intermetatarsal joints are good examples.