598 THE ABTEBIES C. The Terminal Branches of the Abdominal Aorta THE MIDDLE SACRAL ARTERY The middle sacral artery is, anatomically, the continuation of the aorta, and is generally but not universally held to be the homologue of the sacral and coccygeal aorta of some animals. The so-called coccygeal glomerulus, or Luschka's gland, in which it terminates, is believed to contain the rudiments of the caudal aorta, or artery of the tail. The artery is mesially placed, and extends from the bifurcation of the aorta to the tip of the coccyx. As it passes downwards into the pelvis, it runs behind the left common iliac vein, the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic nerve, and the layer of peritoneum that descends from the mesentery into the pelvis to become the meso-rectum. It lies successively upon the intervertebral disc between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, the fifth lumbar vertebra, the intervertebral disc between that vertebra and the sacrum, and lower down upon the middle of the anterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx. Branches.—The middle sacral gives off:— (1) The fifth pair of lumbar arteries (sometimes). These are described with the lumbar arteries. (2) Lateral sacral branches, usually four in number. These are serially homo- logous with the intercostal and lumbar arteries given off by the aorta. They run more or less transversely outwards, and anastomose with the lateral sacral branches of the internal iliac artery. They give off small spinal branches, which pass through the sacral foramina, and supply the sacral canal and back of the sacrum. (3) Rectal or hgemorrhoidal branches pass forwards in the layers of the meso- rectum, to the rectum which they help to supply, and anastomose with the other hgemorrhoidal or rectal arteries. On the lower part of the middle sacral artery—the coccygeal part—there are often found small pouches or varicosities, which are believed by some to represent the rudiments of lateral coccygeal arteries, homologous to the intercostal, lumbar, and sacral arteries, given off from the aorta in these regions. The variations of this vessel are unimportant. (A) The most frequent perhaps is for it to come off from the back of the aorta a little above the bifurcation; or (B) from one or other of the common iliacs; or (C) as a common trunk with what are usually its branches, the fifth pair of lumbar arteries. (D) It sometimes gives off' an accessory renal artery—a fact of interest, in that the kidneys occupy a lower position in the abdomen in some animals than in man. THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES The common iliac arteries must be regarded as the terminal branches of the abdominal aorta, unless the middle sacral and the artery of the tail in the lower animals are regarded as the continuation of the abdominal aorta. The common iliacs arise opposite the left side of the lower border of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, at the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta, and, diverging from each other in the male at about an angle of 60°, and in the female at an angle of 68°, i terminate opposite the upper margin of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis by bifurcating | into the external iliac, which is continued along the brim of the pelvis to the | lower limb, and into the internal iliac, which passes over the brim of the pelvis i and descends into that cavity. Both arteries lie on the fifth lumbar vertebra, are covered by the peritoneum, and are crossed by the ureter, and in the female, , in addition, by the ovarian arteries.