THE MUSCLES 476 Variations.—The sterno-hyoid may arise from the clavicle alone, and occasionally even from the middle of that bone. It may be absent or double. A tendinous intersection sometimes crosses it. 2. OMO-HYOID j The omo-hyoid (w/xo?=shoulder), named from its attachment to the shouldei blade and the hyoid bone—is ribbon-shaped with a tendinous constriction in the middle which divides it into two fleshy bellies. , Origin.—(1) The upper border of the scapula for about an inch behind the | suprascapular notch ; (2) occasionally, the upper border of the transverse ligameni | which crosses the notch. . i Insertion.—The lower border of the body of the hyoid bone just external t( the preceding, which it also slightly overlaps. I Structure.—Arising fleshy and broad, the muscle contracts slightly as it passes forwards, and a little upwards, across the posterior triangle of the neck above thi clavicle. Beneath the sterno-mastoid, and over the great vessels of the neck, i becomes tendinous for a short distance ; and then, changing its direction, it agaiij expands to a fleshy band which runs upwards and slightly forwards and inward*' to its insertion, which is by short tendinous, intermingled with fleshy, fibres. A] obtuse angle is formed between the two bellies, the lower portion of the musch and its tendon being held down by a strong process of the deep layer of th cervical fascia, which, forming a loop around them, passes downwards to be attache' to the posterior surface of the clavicle and to the first rib. Nerve-supply.—The anterior belly is supplied by a branch from the descender hypogiossi, which enters the back of its deep surface, while the posterior receive a branch from the loop of communication between this nerve and the commun \ cantes hypogiossi which enters the deep surface of the muscle close to its junctio with the tendon. Action.—(1) To draw down the hyoid bone ; (2) very slightly to help in raisin the scapula ; (3) to make tense the lower part of the cervical fascia. In this wa it assists the platysma myoides in diminishing the inward suction of the so ; parts, which tends to compress the great vessels and the apices of the lungs durin \ prolonged inspiratory efforts. The part of the muscle between the sterno-mastoi i and the carotid sheath, being tendinous, will not vary in thickness, otherwif! during contraction it might tend to obstruct the vessels beneath. j Relations.—Superficially, the deep cervical fascia, sterno-mastoid, clavicl | subclavius and trapezius, the external jugular vein, and the descending branch; of the superficial cervical plexus ; deeply, the thyro-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, scaler. | and the first digitation of the serratus magnus, the sheath of the common carot! artery and internal jugular vein, the upper part of the brachial plexus, often tl i third part of the subclavian artery with the transversalis colli and suprascapul li arteries and the suprascapular nerve. | Variations.—These are very frequent. It may be absent or double. The posteri; belly may be attached to the clavicle and scapula, or to the clavicle alone. Itmayrecei i a slip from the manubrium. The anterior belly may blend with the sterno-hyoid, and j may send a slip to the thyroid cartilage or the mandible. ;