56 THE SKELETON so much absorption of bone that the cells perforate the ethmoid in situations where it is overlapped by other bones. Along the lower border of the bone, near its articula- tion with the maxilla, the absorption leads to the partial detachment of a narrow strip known as the uncinate or unciform process. Sometimes a second but smaller hook-like process is formed, above and anterior to the large one. This process is so very fragile that it is difficult to preserve it in disarticulated bones. The relations of the uncinate process are best studied by removing the outer wall of the antrum. THE SPHENOIDAL TUKBINAL These bones (often referred to as the bones of Bertin) are two hollow cones^ flattened externally in three planes. They may be obtained as distinct ossicles about the fifth year. At this date they are wedged in between the under surface of the pre-sphenoid and the orbital and sphenoidal processes of the palate bone. The apex of the cone is directed backwards, and appears near the vaginal process of the sphenoid. Of its three surfaces, the outer one is in relation with the spheno-maxillary fossa, and occasionally extends upwards between the sphenoid Fig. 65.—The Sphenoidal Turbinal at the Sixth Year. and the os planum of the ethmoid to appear on the inner wall of the orbit (fig. 67). The inferior surface forms the upper boundary of the spheno-palatine foramen, and enters into the formation of the posterior part of the roof of the nasal fossa. The superior surface lies flattened against the under surface of the pre-sphenoid. The base of the cone is in contact with the posterior surface of the lateral mass of the ethmoid. At birth these bones are visible as small triangular ossifications in the peri- chondrium of the ethmo-vomerine plate near its junction with the pre-sphenoid. Fig. 66.—The Sphenoidal Turbinals from an Old Skull. SPHENOIDAL TURBINAL ROSTRUM OF SPHENOID By the third year they have become hollow cones, the circular orifice representing the base eventually becoming the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus. As the cavity enlarges, the median wall atrophies so that the inner wall of the sinus is formed by the pre-sphenoid. As the turbinal enlarges it ankyloses with adjacent bones. In many skulls it joins the lateral mass of the ethmoid ; more frequently it fuses with the pre-sphenoid ; less frequently with the palate. After the twelfth year they can rarely be separated from the skull without damage. In many disarticulated skulls