THE MUSCLES 368 2. ILIACUS The iliacus—named from its attachment to the ihum—is a thick, triangula sheet. Origin.—(1) The upper surface of the ala of the sacrum ; (2) the front of th ilio-lumbar, lumbo-sacral, and anterior sacro-ihac hgaments ; (3) the upper and oute half of the venter of the ilium ; (4) the origin of the upper tendon of the rectu femoris and the ilio-femoral ligament near the anterior inferior spine of the ilium Insertion.—(1) The outer surface of the tendon of the psoas, through whic it is attached to the back of the lesser trochanter of the femur ; (2) the upper an inner part of the shaft of the femur in a line about one inch long leading downward from the lesser trochanter. Structure.—Arising by fleshy fibres, the muscle converges in a fan-shape dowr wards and inwards, and its fibres enter the posterior and outer surface of the tendo of the psoas muscle from about two inches above Poupart's ligament to its insertioi The lowest fibres are also continued, still fleshy, into their insertion on the inne part of the shaft of the femur. Nerve-supply.—From the lumbar plexus (through the second and third lumbe nerves) by the anterior crural nerve, which gives branches to its anterior surfac about the middle of its inner border. Action.—Similar to that of the psoas, as a flexor of the thigh ; and acting froi the femur as a fixed point, it will draw forwards and flex the pelvis upon the thigl Relations.—The iliac fascia in front separates it from the peritoneum an intestines. The profunda femoris artery and several nerves from the lumbar plexi lie upon it. Behind, and to its inner side, lies the psoas. After passing undt Poupart's ligament, it is crossed by the sartorius, and behind lie the rectus femor and the capsule of the hip joint. Variations.—A small detached muscle occasionally arises from the anterior inferi( spine, and is inserted into the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, or the ili- femoral ligament. Psoas Parvus The psoas parvus—a small muscle, only occasionally present, named from its positic in the loins and its small size—is fusiform and somewhat flattened. Origin.—The side of the intervertebral disc between the last thoracic and the fir lumbar vertebra and the adjacent borders of the bodies of these vertebrse. Insertion.—The ilio-pectineal line. Structure.—Arising fleshy, the fibres converi^e and are inserted in a somewhat penii form manner into the back and inner surface of a tendon which appears about two incln below the origin of the muscle upon its outer and anterior aspect, and becomes free aboi the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra. The tendon, a narrow fibrous band, lies upon tl inner aspect of the psoas magnus on the brim of the pelvis, and expands at its lowi extremity to be attached along the ilio-pectineal line and the pectineal eminence. Nerve-supply.—By small filaments from the first nerve of the lumbar plexus. Action.—To flex the pelvis upon the thorax; or, taking the pelvis as a fixed point, will flex the lower part of the thoracic spine as well as the lumbar spine upon the pelvi It is a muscle which is well developed in some animals, having for its function the drawii forwards of the lower part of the pelvis, accompanied by the arching of the lumbar spii which is seen when they are running swiftly. Eolations.—In front, the iliac fascia, peritoneum, Kgamentum arcuatum internm intestines, renal vessels, ureter, external iliac vessels, etc. Behind and externally, tl psoas magnus. Investing the abdominal portion of the ilio-psoas is a strong membrane, call( the iliac fascia, which is attached to the crest of the ilium externally, and internal to the posterior part of the ilio-pectineal line which forms the brim of the pelvis.