588 THE ABTERIES ilio-hypogastric nerves to the skin. They anastomose with the lower intercostals, ilio-lumbar, deep circumflex ihac, and deep epigastric arteries. The lumbar arteries give off the following branches :— (a) Vertebral branches which supply the bodies of the vertebrae and their connecting ligaments. {h) Muscular branches to the psoas, quadratus lumborum, and oblique muscles of the abdomen. (c) The dorsal branch. This is of large size, and passes backwards in company with the dorsal nerve between the transverse processes above and below, the inter- transversalis internally, and the quadratus lumborum externally, to the muscles of the back. On reaching the interval between the longissimus dorsi and multifldus spinae, it divides into an external and internal branch. The former ends in the multifidus, the latter and larger supplies the erector spinae, and gives branches which accompany the termination of the dorsal nerves to the skin. Just before the artery passes between the transverse processes it gives off a spinal branch, which accom- panies the lumbar nerve through the intervertebral foramen into the spinal canal. Here the spinal branch divides into three twigs, one of which passes through the sheath of the dura mater to the termination of the spinal cord and cauda equina; the other two are distributed to the walls of the spinal canal after the way described in the case of the intercostals. {(1) Renal branches of small size pass forwards in front of the quadratus lumborum to the capsule of the kidney. They anastomose with the renal artery. A communication is thus established betw^een the renal arteries and the arteries supptying the lumbar region. The fifth pair of lumbar arteries, when present, usually come off from the middle sacral artery. Each courses outwards, beneath the common iliac artery and vein ; and, after giving off a dorsal branch, ramifies over the lateral mass of the sacrum, and ends in the iliacus muscle by anastomosing with the circumflex iliac artery. The dorsal branch passes to the back between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum and ramifies in the gluteus maximus, anastomosing with the lumbar arteries above, and with the gluteal artery below. The variations in the lumbar arteries are not of great importance. (A) One or more pairs may arise as a common stem from the back of the aorta. (B) The first lumbar may be joined at its origin with the subcostal artery; or the third and fourth lumbar, or less often the second and third lumbar, may arise from the aorta as a common stem. (C) The fifth pair may sometimes be absent. (D) The first lumbar may give off the phrenic or the suprarenal. (E) One of the lumbar arteries may give off' the spermatic. (F) The fourth lumbar on either side may give off the middle sacral, or both arteries may arise as a common stem with the middle sacral. B. The Visceeal Branches of the Abdominal Aoeta THE CCELIAC AETEEY The coeliac artery—or coeliac axis as it is commonly called, because it breaks up simultaneously into three branches w^hich radiate from it like the spokes of a wheel from the axle—is a short thick trunk given off" from the front of the aorta between the crura of the diaphragm a little below the aortic opening. It passes horizontally forwards above the upper margin of the pancreas for about half an inch, and then breaks up into its three branches for the supply of the stomach, duodenum, spleen, pancreas, liver, and gall-bladder (fig. 805). Relations.—In front is the lesser omentum ; behind, the aorta ; above, the right lobe of the liver ; below, the pancreas ; to the right, the right semilunar gangfion