EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL 879 plane, the nasal division will be found to be slightly smaller than the temporal. The optic nerve joins the globe three or four millimetres to the nasal side of the posterior pole. The shape of the eye depends on, and is preserved by, the outermost tunic, formed conjointly by the cornea and sclerotic, the entire outer surfaces of which are now in view. The anterior or corneal part has been already examined. All round the cornea there remains a little adherent conjunctiva ; elsewhere, the sclerotic is directly exposed, except for some loose connective tissue which adheres to it, especially around the optic nerve entrance. In front of the equator we see the tendinous insertions of the four recti muscles. Behind the equator are the insertions of the two oblique muscles—that of the superior oblique tendinous, and further forwards ; that of the inferior more fleshy, and placed between the optic nerve and the external rectus. It is difficult to recognise the different recti muscles by their uisertions if we do not know whether the eye examined is a right or left one. To determine this we should hold the globe with the optic nerve towards us, and in the natural position with the superior oblique tendon uppermost. The mferior oblique tendon will now poin, to the side to which the eye belongs, and we can consequently determine the different recti muscles. Fig. 474.—Diagrammatic View of the Insertions of the Ocular Muscles. (After Merkel.) The internal rectus is inserted nearest (7 mm. from) the corneal border; the external rectus commonly, sometimes the superior, is inserted furthest from it (about 8 mm.). All the recti tendons are broad and thin, but that of the internal is the broadest (8 mm.) ; those of the external and inferior the narroAvest (6 mm.). The greatest interval between two neighbouring tendons is that between the superior and internal recti (about 12 mm.); the least is between the superior and external (7 mm.). The form of the lines of insertion of the different tendons varies considerably, the inferior being almost straight, the superior and external convex forwards, the internal further removed from the corneal border below than above. The insertions of the obliques are at more than double the average distance of the insertions of the recti from the corneal border. That of the superior oblique is found on the superior surface of the sclerotic, about sixteen millimetres from the corneal edge, in the form of a line sloping from before backwards and inwards. The inferior oblique has a long fleshy insertion lying between the external rectus and the optic nerve entrance ; the posterior end of the insertion, which is also the highest, is only about six millimetres from the optic nerve, and from this point it slopes forwards, outwards, and slightly downwards.