FLEXOB LONGUS POLLICIS 837 Action.—It is a powerful flexor of the third phalanges of the fingers. As with jhe superficial flexor, the extreme obliqiiity of the insertion of the tendons gives g-reat speed and range of movement, but increases the mechanical disadvantage ^ith which this muscle (being a representative of the third order of lever) must act. The slight elevation formed by the union of the two halves of each tendon of the lexor sublimis upon the second phalanx diminishes to a small extent the extreme Dbliquity of its insertion. After bending the third phalanx, the muscle will assist .n the flexion of the other phalanges and the wrist. j Relations.—Superficially, the flexor sublimis digitorum and flexor carpi ulnaris, |;he ulnar vessels, the median and ulnar nerves ; deeply, the pronator quadratus and 'ivrist joint. In the hand, it lies beneath the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum jmd the lumbricales, and upon the adductor of the thumb, the interossei muscles, |ind the deep palmar arch. ! Variations.—The flexor profundus digitorum frequently receives, like the flexor longns 3ollicis, a slip from the superficial muscles of the forearm. Sometimes the part which lyoes to the index finger may take part of its origin from the radius; and occasionally slips may pass from the flexor profundus to the flexor longus poUicis, or vice versa. A [slip has been observed to end in the synovial membrane of the palmar bursa. ' ■ 2. FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS i The flexor longus pollicis—named from its action upon the thumb and its .ength as compared with the short muscles of the ball of the thumb—is a fusiform sheet. Origin.—(1) The anterior surface of the radius below the oblique line, with the exception of the last two inches of the surface ; and the adjacent surface of the interosseous membrane. (2) A second head arises from the inner border of the ^oronoid process of the ulna, but occasionally it may come from the internal j condyle of the humerus. Insertion.—The front of the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Structure.—A penniform muscle arising fleshy from the bone and the inter- Dsseous membrane. The tendon first appears upon the anterior surface near to its alnar border about the middle of the forearm. It receives the fleshy fibres upon ts outer border and posterior surface and becomes free at the level of the wrist joint, where it enters the canal formed by the anterior annular ligament and the cront of the carpus. It is here invested by a special compartment of the great synovial bursa, and this compartment is continuous with the synovial sheath of the lendon as it lies in the thumb. After entering the palm of the hand, the tendon Dasses beneath the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis, then through the groove !:ormed by the two sesamoid bones which belong to the tendons of this muscle, |ind, after lying in close contact with the concave palmar surface of the first phalanx of the thumb, it is inserted into the front of the base of the second 3halanx. Nerve-supply.—From the outer and inner cords of the brachial plexus (through he eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves) by means of the anterior interosseous )ranch of the median nerve, which sends filaments to it upon its anterior surface lear its ulnar border about the middle of the forearm. 1 Action.—It is a powerful flexor of the last phalanx of the thumb. It will also ilex its metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and afterwards it will assist the other flexors pf the wrist. 1 As the bones of the thumb are not in the same plane with those of the fingers, »mt rotated so that their palmar surface looks towards the rest of the hand, their ilexion will be accompanied by adduction; as when the thumb meets the other Z