1028 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION spleens (lienculi), found in the gastro-splenic omentum, or less often in the grea omentum. From one to twenty of these small bodies may be met with. They an red and round, of the same structure as the spleen, and vary in size from a pea t( a walnut. Structure.—Beneath the covering of peritoneum is a thin but tough capsule o areolar tissue, which is very adherent to the serous membrane. It is remarkabl; elastic. It sends a prolongation in at the hilum, which follows and supports th vessels to their termination. Within the capsule is the puliJ. This is a ver; friable soft tissue of a dark reddish-brown colour, not unlike grumous blood i] colour and consistence. It can be squeezed out from the cut spleen, and then i will be seen that the whole organ is pervaded by a network of fine fibres whic support the pulp. The larger of these come off directly from the fibrous capsuk and are called the trabecules. In Front. Stomach; splenic flexure of colon. Outer Side. Diaphragm; ninth to eleventh ribs between axillary line. GENERAL RELATIONS OF THE SPLEEN Inner Side. Stomach; pancreas; left kidn( and capsule. Behind. Diaphragm. Blood-supply.—The spleen receives its blood from the splenic artery, which very large in proportion to the body it is going to supply. It divides before enterii into about six branches. The artery is very tortuous. The vein, on the oth; hand, is straight, and lies below the artery. ; The lymphatics are divided into a superficial and a deep set. The former fori a plexus beneath the peritoneum. The latter are derived from fine perivascul j spaces in the adenoid tissue around the vessels. They join at the hilum, ai pass between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum to the glands in th neighbourhood. j The nerves are from the solar plexus. They pass in along the splenic artery I THE EVOLUTION OF THE PEEITONEUM AND AN EXPLANATIQ]! OF ITS AKKANGEMENT IN THE HUMAN BODY 1 The peritoneum is a serous membrane and is identical with other like-nam { membranes which are less complicated in their disposition. It differs in ]| essential particular from the pleura, from the pericardium, from the tunica vaginal j from the synovial membrane of a joint, or from the simple vaginal sheath of | tendon. In all there is practically a closed sac of thin membrane, which is I disposed as to both line a cavity and to invest the structures which encroach up( j that cavity. j Imagine a pleural cavity from which the lung had vanished without distur ance of parts. The membrane lining it vfould appear as a simple serous Next conceive the lung gradually budding towards this sac. It would push t] membrane before it, and as it did so it would both encroach upon the cavity lin by the membrane, and be itself covered or invested by it. When the lung had attained nearly to the dimensions of the rigid cavity it wi i