THE VULVA 1077 The structures forming the labia resemble those of the scrotum, but the dartos imperfectly developed, and each labium contains a well-defined encapsulated subcutaneous mass of fat, of somewhat ovoid shape, which blends above with the iistal extremity of the round ligament. A similar mass is occasionally found in the Imale scrotum as a fatty tumour of the cord, and may simulate an inguinal hernia. The labia minora, or nymphse, are folds differing from the labia majora in their !;elatively small size and in the absence of fat. The two plications unite above, 3mbracing the clitoris and forming the prseputium clitoridis ; below, they diverge md terminate opposite to or a little behind the middle of the rima genitalis. They ire smooth and hairless on the surface, usually of a pale rose colour, and their free border, which projects for a very variable distance, is convex and often crenulated br lobed. They are usually concealed by the labia majora, except in the foetus ; but are sometimes largely developed, and may project beyond the genital fissure, Fig. 632.—Diagrammatic Kepresentation of the Perin^eal Structures IN the Female. ihen assuming a dry pigmented aspect. The sebaceous glands are large and occupy )oth surfaces. j The vestibule is the space between the labia minora and the vaginal orifice. Its boundaries are ill defined posteriorly, and the term is used with different signi- ficance by different anatomists. Opening into it are the urethra, the glands of Bartholin, and the orifices of a number of lacunae. The glands of Bartholin probably represent Gowper's glands in the male, but are more superficially placed. They are two little racemose glands, about a ihird of an inch long, situated one on either side beneath the lateral wall of the t/estibule and behind the bulbi vestibuli. The duct, about three-quarters of an nch in length, opens immediately in front of the vaginal orifice opposite its meridian. Vessels.—The vulvar structures are supplied by branches of the external and Internal pudic arteries. The veins end in the corresponding trunks, and there is ipi addition a free anastomosis with the veins of the round ligament in the pubcutaneous fat of the labium. The lymphatics terminate for the most part |Ln the inguinal glands, a few passing to the femoral glands. About the vaginal