216 THE ABTIGULATIONS faecal mass, and, in parturition, by the foetus ; but this backward movement is controlled by the upward and forward pull of the leA^ator ani and coccygeus. The external sphincter also tends to pull it forward. (c) Inteecoccygeal Joints The several segments of the coccyx are held together by the anterior and posterior common ligaments, which completely cover the bony nodules on their anterior and posterior aspects. Laterally, the sacro-sciatic ligaments, being attached to nearly the whole length of the coccyx, serve to connect them. Between the first and second pieces of the coccyx there is a very perfect amphiarthrodial joint, with a well-marked intervertebral substance. i {d) The Symphysis Pubis ' Class.—Amphiarthrosis. The bones entering into this joint are the pubic portions of the hip bones* This joint is shorter and broader in the female than in the male. The ligaments, which completely surround the articulation, are :— Superior. Anterior. i Inferior. Posterior. f Interosseous cartilage. The superior ligament (figs. 210 and 211) is a well-marked stratum of yellowish fibres which extends outwards along the crest of the pubes on each side, blending in the middle line with the interosseous cartilage. It is continuous in front with the deep transverse fibres of the anterior ligament, and behind with the posterior ligament. It gives origin to the rectus abdominis tendon. Fig. 210.—Anterior View of the Symphysis Pubis (Male), showing the Decussation OF THE Fibres of the Anterior Ligament. Superior pubie ligamen Inferior pubie ligament The posterior ligament (fig. 212) is slight, and, excepting above and below,! consists of little more than thickened periosteum. Near the upper part is a bandi of strong fibres, reaching the whole width of the pubic bones, and continuous withj the thickened periosteal fibres along the ilio-pectineal line. Below, many of thej upper and superficial fibres of the infrapubic ligament ascend over the back of the( joint, and interlace across the median line with fibres from the opposite side nearly j as high as the middle of the symphysis. •