THE ABTERIES 600 Collateral Circulation The collateral circulation after obstruction or ligature of the common iUac artery is carried on chiefly (fig. 374) by the anastomosis of the middle sacral with the lateral sacral; the internal mammary with the epigastric ; the lumbar arteries of the aorta with the ilio-lumbar and deep circumflex iliac; the pubic branch of the epigastric with the pubic branch of the obtm-ator; the posterior branches of the sacral arteries with the gluteal; the superior haemorrhoidal from the superior mesenteric, with the hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac and pudic; the ovarian arteries from the aorta with the uterine branches of the internal iliac ; and by the anastomosis across the middle line of the pubic branch of the obtu- rator with the like vessel of the opposite side ; the lateral sacral with the opposite lateral sacral; and the vesical, hsemorrhoidal, uterine, and vaginal branches of the internal iliac with the corresponding branches of the opposite internal iliac. Branches of the Common Iliac Artery The branches of the common iliac arteries are :—(1) Peritoneal and sub- peritoneal ; (2) ureteric ; (3) internal iliac ; and (4) external iliac. (1) The peritoneal and subperitoneal are distributed to the peritoneum and subperitoneal fat. They anastomose with like vessels given off from the lumbar, phrenic, and renal arteries, forming a subperitoneal arterial anastomosis. They are very small and unimportant. (2) The ureteric are small insignificant twigs given off to the ureter as that' tube crosses the artery. They anastomose with the ureteric arteries given off from the spermatic above, and with those derived from the vesical arteries below. (3) THE INTEENAL ILIAC ARTEEY The internal iliac artery arises at the bifurcation of the common iliac opposite the upper margin of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. It descends into the pelvis for about an inch and a quarter (3 cm.), and then divides, opposite the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, into an anterior and a posterior branch. Relations.—Behind, it rests on the termination of the external iliac vein, the internal iliac vein, the inner margin of the psoas muscle, the lumbo-sacral cord, the obturator nerve, and the sacrum. In front it is covered by the peritoneum, and is crossed by the ureter. In the adult the internal iliac is smaller than the external iliac ; but in the foetus the internal is much larger than the external, and is, together with its anterior branch, the vessel by which the blood is returned to the placenta. In early foetal life it does not descend into the pelvis, but courses above the pelvic brim by the side of the allantois, and later by the side of the bladder and urachus, to the umbilicus, under the name of the hypogastric artery. At the umbilicus it is joined by the umbilical vein, and by the hypogastric artery of the opposite side. The two arteries, now known as the umbilical, coil spirally round the vein on their way to the placenta, forming the umbilical cord (fig. 368). After birth the hypogastric artery ceases to be pervious beyond the superior vesical branch, and is converted into a fibrous cord, the obliterated hypogastric artery. Variations.—(A) The internal iliac may be longer or shorter than usual. It is seldom less than an inch in length, but has been met with as short as half an inch, and as long as three inches. The variation in length generally depends upon the length of the common iliac ; when this bifurcates higher than usual, the internal iliac is then longer, and may lie at first above the brim of the pelvis ; but the length may also depend upon the artery itself dividing higher or lower than usual into its branches. This division may occur anywhere between the brim of the pelvis and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. (B) Its branches may be given off without the arterj^ dividing into an anterior and posterior division, or one or more branches may arise above the division.