806 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM ventricle and the formatio reticularis. This nucleus is situated near the middle line, a little in front of the striae acusticas, and corresponds to the eminentia teres It is on a line with the nuclei of the third and fourth nerves. The fibres whicl arise from this nucleus plunge forwards through the substance of the pons, anc emerge at the lower border of the latter structure (superficial origin). Some of th( fibres pass through the pyramidal body ; others pass out in the interval betweer the latter and the olivary body. The sixth nerve was formerly described as giving fibres of origin to the facial, but Guddei and Gowers have shown that this is not the case. A remarkable strand of fibres passes from the abdncens nucleus to the posterior longitudinal bundle. It runsbrainwards, forming the inner border of the bundle, and decussates below the corpora quadrigemina with iti fellow of the opposite side; it then joins the third nerve, and passes eventually into th( internal rectus muscle. Thus the eyes can be directed to the right or left, as the case ma^ be, by the action of a single nucleus, e.g. in turning the eyes to the right, the right external rectus and the left internal rectus are used, and these are both supplied by the right abducensj nucleus. | The sixth nerve pierces the dura mater at a point a little above the junction the basilar process of the occipital bone with the sphenoid. It runs upwards or the body of the sphenoid, and turns forwards in the interval between the apex c the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the posterior clinoid process of tb sphenoid, passing in this situation under cover of a ligament which connects thJ osseous prominences above mentioned. It enters the floor of the cavernous sinus and passes on to the outer side of the internal carotid artery. In this situation i receives several communications from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic. I enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, passing between the inferior divisioi of the third nerve and the ophthalmic vein. It passes between the two heads o the external rectus muscle, and ends by piercing the ocular surface of that musckj SEVENTH OE FACIAL NEEVE The seventh or facial nerve is formed by two distinct parts—the main trunk or facial nerve proper, and an accessory portion, the pars intermedia of Wrisberg The facial nerve proper arises from an elongated nucleus which is deeply placed i] the reticular formation below the floor of the fourth ventricle. This nucleu commences at the level of the striae acusticae, and extends brainwards for abou four millimetres. The fibres which arise from it pursue a remarkably tortuou; course within the substance of the pons. At first they pass backwards and inwardj so as to approach the ependyma of the floor of the fourth ventricle close to thi sulcus longitudinalis medianus (crus of origin). They then run upwards and for^ wards in a compact bundle (fasciculus teres, or ascending crus), which produce an elevation (eminentia teres) on the floor of the fourth ventricle immediatebl external to the median fissure. The bundle of fibres then bends, and is directe(i at right angles to its former course; it arches outwards over the nucleus of thi, sixth nerve, and passes forwards, outwards, and downwards (issuing crus). In thij part of its course it passes to the outer side of its own nucleus, between the latte| and the ascending root of the fifth nerve. Finally it emerges at the lower border o! the pons in the interval between the olivary and restiform body (superficial origin)! From the above description, it will be seen that the facial nerve embraces th(i nucleus of the abducens ; the term genu nervi facialis is applied to the nerve ir this part of its course. The pars intermedia of Wrisberg arises from the extreme upper (proximal) enc| of the sensory nucleus of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (Duval). Its fibres pasi| obliquely through the substance of the pons, and emerge at the lower border of thfj last-named structure immediately external to the facial nerve, between the latte:'