764 THE XEBVOUS SYSTEM to the fillet the longitudinal fibres of the pons are well seen intersectini>- the transverse fibres. Sections through the valve of Yieussens (fig. 429) show the superior peduncles of the cerebellum in the form of distinct white crescents placed lateralh" to the fioor of the fourth ventricle.. The posterior longitudinal bundle is now very distinct. It appears pear-shaped in cross-section with the narrow end pointing outwards and abutting against the substantia ferruginea; the latter stands out as a conspicuous dark spot. The tract of the fillet is easily recognised as a white flattened oval bundle. The area mapped out between the posterior longitudinal bundle, the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and the tract of the fillet, is occupied by the formatio reticularis. In sections distal to this, the posterior longitudinal bimdle and the tract of the fillet rapidly lose their distinctness, and in the medulla little can be made out as a rule except the olivary nucleus. The latter appears as a thin wav}' grey line occup^dng the interior of the olivary body. Fig. 431.—Transverse Section of the Medulla a little above the Lower Extremity of the Fourth Ventricle. (After Krause.) FUNICULUS SOLI TAR J us NUCLEUS OF AUDITORY Internal structure of the medulla.—Transverse sections of the medulla show that it is composed of symmetrical halves separated by a central raphe. The raphe is entirely formed by decussating fibres. Each lateral half is composed of both grey and white matter. The white matter will be dealt with in connnon with the tracts of the spinal cord and with the cranial nerves. The arrangement of the grey matter in the medulla is, for the most part, not visible to the unaided eye, and therefore will be dealt with very briefly here. It is usually classified into two categories : (a) Representatives of the grey crescents of the spinal cord; and {h) nuclei or aggregations of grey matter not represented in the spinal cord. As will be seen on consulting the section on the Spinal Coed, the grey matter of the latter consists of a pair of bilaterally symmetrical grey crescents