1091 THE OVABIES If interlacing bundles of white fibrous tissue, which pass insensibly into the faintly brillated tunica albuginea, and enclose multitudes of small vesicles called ovisacs, c Graafian follicles, in which the ova are developed. The majority of the ovisacs are microscopic, but as they ripen and approach the irface they increase in dimensions, and may even attain the size of a large white arrant. Their rupture leads to the scarring already mentioned, and the empty cap- ile slowly disappears when impregnation has not occurred; but, under the influence [ the vascularisation of the organs during pregnancy, it may undergo a remarkable levelopment and form a yellow plicated body known as the corpus luteum. Fig. 643.—Diagram of the Arteries and Lymphatics of the Female Generative Organs. imphatics of broad ligament {to lumhar glands) OVARY FALLOPIAN TUBE Funicular lymphatics (to inguinal glands) Uterine and vaginal lymphatics (to pelvic glands) Vulvar lymphatics (to inguinal glands) Transverse perinoeal artery VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES The vessels are the uterine, ovarian, and funicular, all of which are paired, he uterine artery (fig. 643), a branch of the internal iliac, runs from its origin in a Dwnward direction along the pelvic wall as far as the base of the broad ligament; len, crossing horizontally towards the cervix uteri in front of the ureter, it gives 3f some small vaginal and vesical branches, and runs upwards in a serpentine 3urse close to the side of the body of the uterus, supplying transverse branches to 16 anterior and posterior walls of the organ. These anastomose with their llows across the middle line, one larger branch opposite the junction of the body Qd cervix, forming with the corresponding vessel of the other side the ' arterial rcle of Huguier.' Finally they communicate at the upper angle with the terminal vigs of the ovarian and funicular arteries. The uterine veins are of very large ze, and on leaving the uterus form a plexus in the muscular tissue of the road ligaments, at length joining a trunk which runs side by side with the artery ) end the internal iliac vein. The ovarian artery, arising from the aorta (like the spermatic in the male), 4 A 2