THE SKELETON 32 THE SPHENOID The sphenoid forms a large part of the base of the skull in the region of the anterior and middle fossae. It is very irregular in shape, and is best described as consisting of a body, two pairs of wings, and two pairs of processes. The body is irregularly cuboidal in shape. The superior surface presents the fol- lowing points for examination. In front, there is a prominent spine, which is received between the diverging al^e of the crista gaUi, and known as the ethmoidal spine. The surface behind this is smooth, and is formed by the lesser or orbital wings ; it frequently presents two parallel longitudinal grooves for the olfactory nerves. This smooth surface is terminated by the optic groove, which lodges the optic chiasma, and leads on each side into the optic foramen. The groove is bounded posteriorly by the olivary eminence, a ridge of bone indicating the line of union of the pre- and post-sphenoid. Behind this ridge the bone presents a deep hollow, the pituitary fossa, in which the pituitary body is lodged. The floor of this fossa presents numerous foramina for blood-vessels, and at birth the superior orifice of a narrow passage termed the cranio-pharyngeal canal. The pituitary fossa presents on each side, slightly posterior to the olivary eminence, a tubercle Fig. 36.—^The Sphenoid. (Viewed from above.) of variable size, the middle clinoid process. This is occasionally prolonged to meet the anterior clinoid process on the orbital wing. The posterior boundary is formed by a quadrilateral plate of bone, the dorsum ephippii. The superior angles of this plate are surmounted by the posterior clinoid processes, which give attachment to the tentorium cerebelli. A little below the clinoid process, on each side of the dorsum ephippii, there is a deep notch, converted into a fora- men by the dura mater, for the passage of the sixth cranial nerve. The dorsum is slightly concave posteriorly, and supports the basilar artery and the pons Varolii. The inferior surface of the body has a prominent median ridge, the rostrum, which is received between the alse of the vomer. The rest of the surface is rough, and Covered by the mucous membrane belonging to the roof of the pharynx. The anterior surface presents in the middle line a vertical ridge of bone, the sphenoidal crest, which articulates with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. On each side of the crest, a more or less circular orifice leads into the sphenoidal sinuses. These sinuses are irregularly shaped, unsymmetrical cavities, separated from each other by a thin vertical septum; in adult bones they may extend into the roots of the pterygoid processes, and even into the base of the occipital