718 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM around the individual nerve-cells of the brain have been described, but these are xeiy general!}' believed to be artificial, being due to shrinking from the action of reagents. According to Obersteiner, however, the existence of the pericellular spaces ' is proved by the presence within them of lymphatic cells.' The so-called epicerebral and epispinal spaces, situated between the deep surface of the pia mater and the nervous substance, are also artificial. Structure of a Pacchionian body.—A Pacchionian body consists of {a) a central core of subarachnoid tissue which is joined to the general subarachnoid tissue by a comparatively narrow stalk. This is limited by (5) a la3^er of arachnoid ; aromid which is (c) a prolon- gation of the subdiu-al space. Bounding this space is (d) a very thin layer of membrane derived from the inner layer of the dura mater. It has been shown experimentally' that injections thrown into the subarachnoid space permeate the Pacchionian bodies and pass into the venous sinuses into which these bodies project. In this course the injection dis- tends the subdural space of the Pacchionian body, but does not enter the general subdural space. It should be mentioned, however, that anatomical pores by which the injection could pass do not exist. It is probable from these experiments that an outlet for the cerebro- spinal fluid is provided by the Pacchionian bodies. Cerebro-spinal fluid.—The cerebro-spinal fluid occupies the subdural and subarachnoid spaces of the brain and cord and also the ventricular cavities of the brain. The average quantity is about two ounces (Landois and Stirling). Its specific gravity is about 1010, It is of a very pale yellow colour, and presents many of the characters of ordinary lymph, but differs from lymph in not being coagulable, as it does not contain either fibrin factors or fibrin ferment. It contains a substance which acts on Fehling's solution like dextrose, but which is not a sugar (Foster). The cerebro-spinal fluid is derived in part from the lymphatic vessels which open into the subarachnoid and subdural spaces, but is also believed to be secreted by the epithelial cells which cover the choroid plexuses. These cells are cubical in form, and resemble secreting cells ; a process of the choroid plexus covered by these cells has been aptly compared by Foster to ' an everted alveolus of a secreting gland, with the epithelium outside and the blood-vessels within.' THE ENCEPHALON The encephalon, or brain, is the portion of the cerebro-spinal axis which is lodged within the cranial cavity and constitutes (by weight) about 98 per cent, of the whole. It consists of the cerebrum, the cerebellum, the pons Varolii, and the medulla oblongata. The medulla is continuous with the spinal cord at the decus- sation of the pyramids. The encephalon, taken as a whole, is ellipsoidal or ovoidal in form, presenting above a tolerably even convexity formed by the cerebral hemi- spheres, but below a more irregular surface corresponding to the fossee in the base of the skull. The cerebrum comprises the cerebral hemispheres containing the lateral ventricles (prosencephalon), the optic thalami with the third ventricle between them (thalamencephalon), and the mesencephalon. It occupies the upper compartment of the cranial cavity, resting on a floor formed by the anterior and middle cranial fossae and the tentorium cerebelli. The cerebellum occupies the posterior cranial fossa, and is placed above and behind the fourth ventricle. It is connected by three pairs of peduncles or crura to the cerebrum, pons, and the medulla respectively. The fourth ventricle is bounded below and in front by the pons and medulla. In every part of the encephalon two distinct kinds of nervous substance are to be met with, termed grey and white matter. The grey matter is chiefly disposed upon the siu"face, as in the convolutions of the cerebrum and cerebeUum; but it is also met with in detached or partially detached masses or nuclei, such as the corpora striata and optic thalami in the cerebrum, the nuclei of the medulla and pons, and the corpus dentatum of the cerebeUum. It is composed of groups of gpmglion cells, which possess the power of originating nervous impulses; or of receiving impulses produced by the action of external stimuli on the end- organs of nerves ; or of modifying and redirecting such impulses. The white matter occiu-s in the greatest quantity in the central parts of the cerebral hemispheres. It is composed of meduUated nerve-fibres, which conduct the impulses to and from the ganglion cells in the grey matter. Both grey and white matter are supported by a delicate interstitial tissue termed neuroglia.