INFEBIOB VENA CAVA 669 4. THE VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS All the veins of the abdomen and pelvis—with the exception of the superior ! epigastric vein and ascending lumbar vein, which open ultimately into the superior vena cava—enter directly or indirectly into the inferior vena cava. The veins corresponding to the parietal branches of the abdominal aorta, except the middle sacral vein, open directly into the inferior vena cava ; the middle sacral vein only indirectly through the left common iliac vein. Of the visceral veins corresponding to the visceral branches of the abdominal aorta, those which return the blood from the stomach, intestines, and pancreas (the chylopoetic viscera), and from the spleen, I end in a common trunk (the portal vein). The portal vein enters the liver, and breaks up in the liver substance into capillaries like an artery, and from these j capillaries arise the hepatic veins which open into the inferior vena cava as that vessel grooves the under surface of the liver. Of the other visceral veins, both renals, the right capsular, and the right sper- matic or ovarian open directly into the inferior vena cava ; whilst the left capsular and left spermatic or ovarian only join that vessel indirectly through the left renal. Two of the superficial veins of the lower part of the anterior abdominal wall, the superficial epigastric and superficial circumflex iliac, enter the long saphenous ' vein; and two of the deep" veins from the like situation, the deep epigastric and deep circumflex iliac, enter the external iliac vein. The blood in these vessels, however, can flow upwards as well as in the normally downward direction. In obstruction of the inferior vena cava they become greatly enlarged, and form, with the superior epigastric vein and with other superficial veins of the thorax with which they anastomose, one of the chief channels for the return of the blood from the lower limbs. The veins of the pelvis, which receive the veins from the perin^eum and gluteal region, join the internal iliac vein. THE INFERIOE VENA CAVA j The inferior or ascending vena cava (fig. 391) is the large vessel which returns 1 the blood from the lower extremities and the abdomen and pelvis. It is formed by the confluence of the right and left common iliac veins opposite the body of the i fifth lumbar vertebra, ascends in front of the lumbar vertebrae to the right of the abdominal aorta, passes through the caval opening in the diaphragm, and ends in the lower and back part of the right auricle of the heart on a level with the ! lower border of the ninth thoracic vertebra. At its origin it lies behind the right ' common iliac artery on a plane posterior to the aorta, but as it ascends it passes [ slightly forward and to the right, getting on a plane anterior to the aorta, and I becoming separated from that artery by the right crus of the diaphragm and the j lobulus Spigelii of the liver. Whilst in contact with the liver it lies in a deep I groove on the hinder surface of that organ, the groove being often converted into II a distinct canal by a thin portion of the hepatic substance bridging across the j groove. As it passes through the diaphragm its walls are attached to the tendinous ' margins of the caval opening, and are thus held apart when the muscle contracts. ! On the thoracic side of the diaphragm it lies for about half an inch within the ij pericardium, the serous layer of that membrane being reflected over it. I Relations.—In front it is covered by the peritoneum, and crossed by the right ,! spermatic artery, branches of the aortic plexus of the sympathetic, the transverse