947 THE LABYNX These muscles by rotating the arytenoid cartilages draw the vocal processes 'downwards and inwards, and thus approximate the vocal cords. By pulling fforward the cartilages, they relax the cord as a whole. According to some authorities, the fibres attached to the outer border of the vocal cord act upon it by modifying its elasticity, tightening a portion in front and relaxing the remainder, in this somewhat resembling the stop action of the finger on a violin string. The arytenoideus consists of transverse fibres passing from one arytenoid ieartilage to the other, and attached to their posterior concave surfaces. Super- ificially are some oblique fibres, which decussate where they meet. These pass from Ifche outer angle of one cartilage below to the summit of the opposite, A few of these fibres pass onwards to the aryteno-epiglottidean fold and side of epiglottis. These, reinforced by fibres attached to the summit of the arytenoid cartilage, constitute the aryteno-epiglottideus muscle. A few fibres blend with the thyro- arytenoid muscle. The arytenoideus approximates and depresses the arytenoid cartilages. These actions are assisted by the aryteno-epigiottidei, which depress the epiglottis and icontract the superior aperture of the larynx. The thyro-epiglottideus (sometimes described as part of the thyro-arytenoid) consists of fibres attached below to the thyroid cartilage which, spreading above, Fig. 532.—Scheme showing Action of Arytenoideus drawing Arytenoid Cartilage from Neutral Position I to II. (Modified from Stirling.) reach the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, and the outer wall of the laryngeal pouch as jtvell as the epiglottis. (For the nerve-supply of the laryngeal muscles see page 950.) ! The Interior of the Larynx.—The superior aperture, or opening of the glottis, s triangular in shape, wide in front, narrow behind, and placed so obliquely as to )e almost vertical in the living subject. Above and in front it is bounded by the ipiglottis, behind and below by the interarytenoid notch, whilst on each side stretches the aryteno-epiglottidean fold containing muscular and ligamentous libres. This fold presents two thickened areas, one at the summit of the arytenoid iartilage, and one just in front and above this, formed by the bulging of the hornicular and cuneiform cartilages respectively. Bounded inteipially by this fold, and externally by the wing of the thyroid iartilage, is a shallow depression—the sinus pyriformis. The cavity of the larynx extends from the aperture above described to the lower jborder of the cricoid cartilage. I Its lining of mucous membrane varies much in its colour and thickness and its ixity to the structures which it overlies. On the surface of the true vocal cords it is ixtremely thin, pale and adherent, whilst above and below this it is more vascular bnd more loosely attached to the underlying parts. The submucous tissue contains mmerous elastic fibres and mucous glands. 3 p 2