1080 THE FEMALE BEPBODUCTIVE OBGANS a short limb (occasionally ill-marked or absent) passing in front of the anterior lip of the OS uteri, a much longer limb extending behind the os to end about three- quarters of an inch above the extremity of the posterior lip. The angle of reflexion of the vaginal on to the uterine mucous membrane is called the fornix. The direction of the passage is upwards and slightly backwards, forming an angle of 10° to 15° with the long axis of the body, and usually presenting a slight posterior concavity adapted to the convexity of the rectal ampulla ; the course and direction, however, vary with the degree of pelvic inclination peculiar to the individual, and to some extent with the condition of the bladder and rectum. The two walls are of very unequal length, the anterior measuring about two inches and a half, while the posterior is prolonged upwards an inch further. Relations.—Anteriorly, it is opposed to the urethra and posterior wall of the bladder. It is intimately united with the lower two-thirds of the urethra, but is separated from the upper third and from the bladder by loose connective tissue continuous with the subperitoneal fascia. The ureters pierce the vesical wall in Fig. 634.—Horizontal Section of Vagina and adjacent Structures. (After Henle.) URETHRA- Levator ani. RECTUM — front of the vagina an inch and a quarter below the level of the os uteri. Posteriorly | it is in relation with the rectum, but is separated from it above for about an incl!, by the peritoneal cul-de-sac called the pouch of Douglas, in the middle by sub ! peritoneal connective tissue, and below by the tissues of the perinseal body. In the! latter situation the two canals diverge, and the perinaeal body hence appears or! sagittal section as a triangle the base of which is formed by the integument Laterally, it is in contact with the vaginal branch of the uterine artery, and i j venous plexus lying in the subperitoneal tissue at the base of the broad ligaments = It is crossed obliquely in its upper third by the ureters, and in its lower two-third;' by the anterior borders of the levatores ani. The finger passed within the passag(; and pressed to either side may be made to feel the resistance of the pelvic wall, an( i to distinguish the presence or absence of morbid growths or effusions. The dudi of Gartner, a relic of the Wolffian duct, may occasionally be found by the side o: the upper half of the vagina as a minute tube or fibrous cordc Two orifices whicl (