279 THE TIBIO-FIBULAB UNION le anterior, extending from the posterior and external angle of the lower end f the tibia downwards and outwards to the lowest half-inch (l'e5 cm.) of the border sparating the internal from the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula, and to iie upper part of the posterior border of the external malleolus. It is in relation 1 front with the interosseous ligament; below, it touches the transverse ligament. The inferior interosseous ligament is a dense mass of short felt-like fibres, assing transversely between and firmly uniting the opposed rough triangular urfaces at the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, except for three-eighths of an jach (1 cm.) at the extremity, where there is a synovial cavity. It extends from [he anterior to the posterior tibio-fibular ligaments, reaching upwards an inch and , half in front (4 cm.), but only half this height behind. The transverse ligament (fig. 254) is a strong rounded band, attached to nearly he whole length of the inferior border of the posterior surface of the tibia, just above he articular facet for the astragalus. It then inclines a little forwards and down- wards, to be attached to the internal surface of the external malleolus, just above he fossa, and also into the upper part of the fossa itself. The synovial membrane is continuous with that of the ankle-joint; it projects ipwards between the bones beyond their articular facets as high as the inferior nterosseous ligament. The nerve-supply is the same as that of the ankle-joint ; the arterial supply is I'rom the peroneal and the anterior peroneal, and sometimes from the anterior ibial, or its external malleolar branch. i The movement permitted at this joint is a mere gliding, chiefly in an upward Lnd downward direction, of the fibula on the tibia. The bones are firmly braced lOgether and yet form a slightly yielding arch, thus allowing a slight lateral V expansion during extreme flexion, when the broad part of the astragalus is brought |mder the arch, by the upward gliding of the fibula on the tibia. To this end the 'lirection of the fibres of the superior and inferior tibio-fibular ligaments is down- yards from tibia to fibula. This mechanical arrangement secures perfect contact )f the articular surfaces of the ankle joint in all positions of the foot. I • 4. THE ANKLE JOINT I I Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus. I The ankle is a perfect ginglymus or hinge joint. The bones which enter into is formation are : the lower extremity and internal malleolus of the tibia, and lihe external malleolus of the fibula, above ; and the upper and lateral articular surfaces of the astragalus below. The ligaments uniting the bones are:— Anterior. Internal lateral, i Posterior. External lateral. MThe anterior ligament (figs. 253, 255) is a thin membranous structure, which extends between the lateral ligaments. It is attached above to the anterior border ;of the internal malleolus, to a crest of bone just above the transverse groove at the bwer end of the tibia, to the anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament, and to the ;interior border of the external malleolus. Below, it is attached to the rough upper surface of the neck of the astragalus, in front of the fossa. Internally it is thicker, and is fixed to the astragalus close to the facet for the inner malleolus, being continuous with the internal lateral ligament, and passing forwards to blend with the dorsal astragalo-scaphoid ligament. Externally it is attached to the astragalus, just below and in front of the angle between the superior and lateral [facets, close to their edges, and joins the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral [ligament. It is in relation, in front with the tibialis anticus muscle, the anterior