THE EYEBALL AND ITS SUBBOUNDINGS 877 Till surfaces and the front of the eyeball is thus everywhere covered by conjunctiva, and is known as the conjunctival sac.) Not infrequently, the tendinous insertions of some or all of the recti muscles into the sclerotic may be seen through the conjunctiva, each insertion appearing as a series of whitish parallel lines running towards, but terminating about seven milli- metres from the corresponding corneal border. The cornea appears as a transparent dome, having a curvature greater than that of the sclerotic; the junction of the two unequally curved surfaces is marked by a shallow depression running around the cornea, known as the scleral sulcus. In outline the cornea is nearly circular, but its horizontal diameter is slightly greater than its vertical. Between it and the iris a space exists, whose depth we can estimate roughly by looking at the eye from one side; this space, or anterior chamber, is occupied by a clear fluid, the aqueous humour. Almost the whole anterior surface of the iris is visible, its extreme periphery only being concealed by sclerotic. In colour the iris varies greatly in different indivi- duals. Near its centre (really a little up and in) a round hole exists in the iris, the hlsbck 2ncjnl, whose size varies considerably in different eyes, and in the same eye according to temporary conditions, such as exposure to light, etc. In examining the surface-markings of ,the living iris, one of dark colom^ is to be preferred. Focal illumination will be found useful, for which purpose a second convex lens will be required. On the surface of the iris we see a number of ridges running more or less radially ; adjoining ones occasionally unite and interlace to some extent, so as to leave large depressed meshes at intervals. The ridges coming from the edge of the pupil, and those coming from the more peripheral part of the iris, meet in a zigzag elevated ridge, concentric with the pupil, and by this ridge the iris is roughly marked off into two unequal zones—an outer or ciliary, and an inner or pupillary —of which the latter is much the narrower. The border next the pupil is edged with small, roundish, bead-like prominences of a dark brown colour, separated from one another by depressions, so that it presents a finely notched contour. Not infre- quently, in a light-coloured iris, we may see the sphincter muscle through the anterior layers, in the form of a ring about one millimetre in breadth around the pupil. The ciliary zone may be described as consisting of three parts: (a) A comparatively smooth zone next the zigzag ridge; (b) a middle area, showing concentric but incompletely circular furrows ; (c) a small peripheral darker part, presenting a sieve-like appearance. On the floor of the large depressed meshes, or CTTjpts, parallel radial vessels can be traced, belonging to the iris-stroma. The zigzag line mentioned above corresponds to the position of the circulus arteriosus minor. Occasionally, especially in a light iris, superficial pigment spots of a rusty brown colour occur. If we are examining the living eye, the ophthalmoscope should now be used, so as to gain a view of the fundus. We can thus study the termination of the optic nerve, the distribution of the larger retinal vessels, etc. The general red reflex obtained from the fundus is due to the blood in a capillary network (chorio-capillaris) situated in the inner part of the choroid. To the nasal side of the centre of the fundus is a paler area of a disc shape corresponding to the intraocular end of the optic nerve, and known as the optic disc, or papilla. This optic disc is nearly circular, but usually slightly oval vertically ; it is of a light orange-pink colour, with a characteristic superficial translucency ; its outer third segment is paler than the rest from the nerve-fibres and capillaries here being fewer. About its centre we often observe a well-marked whitish depression or gap, formed by the dispersion of the nerve-fibres as they spread out over the fundus; at the bottom of this depression a sieve-like appearance may be seen, due to the