113 THE STEBNUM throughout life as the manubrium (pre-sternum) ; and the lower segment, also distinct until very advanced life, is the xiphoid (metasternum). The anterior surface of the adult sternum is convex, and gives origin to the pectoralis major muscle of each side ; near its superior angle the sterno-mastoid muscle arises. This surface is traversed by five lines, indicating the former segmentation of this bone. The posterior surface is concave, and traversed by five lines correspond- ing to those on the anterior surface. At the upper part it gives origin to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. The posterior surface of the lower four segments gives origin to the triangularis sterni. The xiphoid is usually perforated ; a branch of each internal mammary artery traverses the foramen; and on each side of it a portion of the diaphragm is attached. Occasionally the xiphoid is bifid. The superior border presents the interclavicular notch, to which the fibres of the interclavicular ligament are attached; this border terminates at each end in an articular notch for the sternal end of the clavicle. The margins of the notch give attachment to the sternq-clavicular ligaments. The lateral borders of the sternum present a series of depressions, which receive the sternal extremities of the costal cartilages of the first seven ribs, and occasionally that of the eighth (see fig. 116). The borders intervening between these depressions or notches are in relation with the internal intercostal muscles. In order to appreciate the nature of these notches, it is advantageous to study the sternum in a young subject. Each typical sternebra presents four angles ; each angle presents a demi-facet. Between each sternebra there is an inter-sternebral disc ; when two sternebra are in position, each notch for a costal cartilage is formed by a sternebra above and below with an intersternebral disc in the middle, thus repeating the relation of the rib-head to the vertebral centra. Later in life these fuse more or less together, except in the case of the first and second sternebrge, which usually remain separate to the end of life. The first (pre-sternum) is the most modified of all the sternebra, and differs from them in the fact that the costal cartilage of the first rib is continuous with it, and in the fact that it supports the clavicles. Occasionally a rounded pisiform bone is seen on each side, immediately internal to the articular notch for the clavicle; these are the episternal bones. The last sternebra, or xiphoid, is the least developed and, though calcified in old age, rarely ossifies. Its tip is directly continuous with the linea alba, and the base gives slight attachment to the rectus abdominis muscle. The following muscles are attached to the sternum :— Pectoralis major. Triangularis sterni. Sterno-cleido mastoid. Transversalis. Internal intercostals. Diaphragm. Kectus abdominis. Sterno-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid. Ligaments.—In addition to the ligaments proper to the costal cartilages, the following require enumeration :— Interclavicular. Posterior sterno-clavicular. Anterior sterno-clavicular. Interarticular fibro-cartilage. Linea alba. Blood-supply.—The arteries of the sternum are derived mainly from the internal mammary arteries by direct branches termed sternal: many twigs are furnished by the perforating branches of the internal mammary, and also from the terminal twigs of the aortic intercostals. Development.—The sternum results from the fusion of the ventral ends of the cartilaginous bars which in the early embryo represent the ribs. At first these bars fuse together laterally, and for some time the sternum is represented by two I