1124 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY the numerous tonsillar arteries, which is enlarged, and not from the ascend:» pharyngeal or internal carotid. The finger introduced downwards at tlie back of the mouth, especially if j parts are rendered insensitive by cocaine, feels the circumvallate papillae, ^ lingual and laryngeal surfaces of the epiglottis, the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, w i the cartilages of Wrisberg and Santorini. If the finger be moved upwards beh.jl the soft palate and turned upwards to the base of the skull, and then forwards |t will impinge on the posterior nares, separated by the vomer, and, within eu nostril, the hinder end of the inferior spongy bones ; above and behind is felt t basilar process of the skull. The size of the nares, one inch by half an inch, and the presence of any adeno:, are especially to be noted. The richness of the naso-pharynx in glandular structui, its proneness to inflammation, and of this inflammation to spread to other part; - e.g. the tympanum—are well known. The finger should be familiar with the fee f adenoids, or of hypertrophied post-nasal lymphatic nodules—soft bodies of irregi t shape blocking up the naso-pharynx. To make out how far this is the case, i g well to take the nasal septum as the starting-point. THE PALATE Between the diverging pillars of the soft palate is the isthmus fauciii, bounded above by the free margin of the palate, and below by the dorsum of b tongue. Of its lateral boundaries, the posterior pillars come nearer each other tl a the anterior. In paring the edges of a cleft soft palate, the following structu s would be, successively, cut through: (1) Oral mucous membrane ; (2) submuc's tissue, with vessels, nerves, and glands ; (3) palato-glossus muscle ; (4) aponeurosi'f tensor palati; ( 5) anterior fasciculus of palato-pharyngeus ; (0) levator palati i i azygos uvulae muscles ; (7) posterior fasciculus of palato-pharyngeus ; (8) submuc tissue, vessels, nerves, and glands; (9) posterior mucous membrane. The : t palate is thicker than it seems, the average in an adult being a quarter of ji inch. The muscles widening a cleft are the tensor and levator, while the supe: p constrictor closes it in swallowing. Of the arteries to the palate, the larges p the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary. This emerges frp the posterior palatine canal close to the inner side of the last molar tooth, i i runs forward to supply the hard palate. THE NECK Landmarks in the middle line.—Passing from the symphysis to the sujl- clavicular notch is—(1) The body of the hyoid, which is nearly on a level i the angles of the jaw. On either side of the body are the great cornua. \ b upper borders of these are the guide to the lingual artery. Below the hyoid is e thyro-hyoid space, which corresponds with the epiglottis and the upper apertunf the larynx. Thus, if the throat be cut above the hyoid, the mouth will be ope il and the tongue cut into ; if the thyro-hyoid space be cut, the pharynx would fe opened and the epiglottis wounded near its base. Behind the centre of e anterior margin of the thyroid is the rima glottidis. The projection of the thyi 1 notch is much more distinct in men than in women or children. It does 't appear before puberty, and thus flatness of the thyroid must be expected when e landmarks for tracheotomy are sought for in children with short fat necks. ^. e cricoid, on the other hand, is always to be made out. It corresponds in horizoi |1 plane to the following:—(1) The fifth cervical vertebra. (2) The junction f