1081 THE VAGINA jopen into the vagina near the meatus, sometimes called Skene's tubes, are regarded by some morphologists as the terminations of Gartner's ducts, i The lower end of the vagina pierces the triangular ligament, and it is here that the resistance to dilatation is greatest. The inlet may be temporarily narrowed by the engorgement of the bulbi vestibuli, or by the action of the constrictor vaginae, [and perhaps also by that of the levatores ani. The mucous surface of the vagina presents on the anterior wall a median longitudinal ridge or carina, and on the posterior wall two ridges, the columnae rugarum, from all of which pass a number of transverse rugae. These markings ,diminish in distinctness with advance in age and with successive parturitions. The hymen has been a subject of much speculation amongst the learned and imlearned of all ages. Its very existence was at one time denied by many great luthorities, and the significance to be attached to its presence or absence is still I question in medical jurisprudence. It appears in the virgin as an imperfect septum pierced by an irregular aperture which usually reaches to the anterior L^aginal wall, and leaves a fold of semilunar form behind. It varies greatly in 'strength and elasticity, and although it is nearly always ruptured by the first act of ;exual congress, it may remain unbroken until parturition. An imperforate con- lition of the membrane is occasionally present, and may necessitate a surgical j)peration at the commencement of the menstrual period. Structure.—The vaginal wall is composed of three coats, fibrous, muscular, and nucous, and has a thickness of one-eighth to one-sixth of an inch. The outer ibrous coat is derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and holds in its meshes a )lexus of veins. The muscular coat comprises two layers of strong unstriped ibres, the outer longitudinal, continuous above with the uterine muscle and with ihe utero-sacral ligaments ; and the inner circular and more largely developed near jhe vulvar aperture. The mucous membrane presents the plications described, and is of a pale rose int in periods of quiescence, but becomes turgid during the catamenial period and n pregnancy. It is highly elastic, beset with papilla and covered with a squamous aminated epithelium continuous with that of the os uteri and vulva. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries are derived from an inferior branch of the iterine and from the internal iliac, communicating below with branches of the xternal pudic ; they run along the lateral aspect of the passage and give twigs to he anterior and posterior surfaces. The veins, similarly disposed, form a rich i etwork in the muscular and mucous coats, and terminate in the vaginal and uterine Irunks. The lymphatics accompany the veins and terminate in the pelvic glands, I few from the neighbourhood of the vestibule, however, reaching the inguinal lands. A small gland is occasionally found between the rectum and vagina. The Nerves come from the hypogastric plexus, the fourth sacral, and the pudic. i THE UTEEUS The uterus, or womb (figs. 635-638), is a hollow muscular organ lined with jmcous membrane. It communicates above with the two Fallopian tubes, and below ith the vagina, and lies within the pelvic cavity between the bladder and rectum, jixed in its place by folds of peritoneum and certain bands of unstriped muscle. I varies greatly in size and form at different periods of life and under different tiysiological conditions. The adult uterus is flattened from before backwards, pyriform in its outlines hen seen from the front, and is divided into two main portions, body and cervix, IJ a transverse constriction, the isthmus. The isthmus may be regarded as the eak point in the organ, and it is here that the various pathological flexions take