THE SKELETON 84 The auricular fissure for the tympanic branch of the vagus. The tympanic plate and vaginal process. The styloid process. The stylo-mastoid foramen for the stylo-mastoid artery and the exit of the facial nerve. The mastoid process with the digastric and occipital grooves. The suh-occiintal region presents chiefly muscular ridges. They are the superior, middle, and inferior nuchal lines, with the external occipital protuberance and the external occipital crest. Behind the mastoid process is an opening of variable size, the mastoid foramen ; a branch of the occipital artery enters, and a vein from the lateral sinus issues from this foramen. The anterior asi)ect of the skull is oval in outline, but presents a very irregular surface. Its upper portion, or forehead, presents the frontal eminences and super- ciliary ridges. In the middle line is the prominence formed by the nasal bones, with a deep pyramidal recess, the orbits, on each side. Below the nasal bones are the entrances to the nasal sinuses and the various recesses connected with them. The teeth form a conspicuous feature in this view of the skull, the outline of which is completed by the mandible. The bones visible in this view of the skull are: the frontal, nasals, lachrymals^ orbital surfaces of the lesser and the greater wings, and a portion of the body of the sphenoid, the ossa plana of ethmoid, and the orbital processes of the palate bones, the malars, maxillae, inferior turbinals, and the mandible. The foramina are : the supraorbital, infraorbital, optic, temporal, and mental; the lachrymal duct; the malar and ethmoidal canals ; and the spheno-maxillary and sphenoidal fissures. The orbits are two cavities of j^yramidal shape, which lodge the eyeball and its associated muscles, nerves, and vessels. The apex of each orbit corresponds ta the optic foramen, a circular orifice which transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. The base looks forwards and outwards. It is formed by the frontal bone above, the nasal process of the maxilla on the inner side, the malar bone externally, and below by the malar and body of the maxilla. The following points are seen around the base :—The suture between the external angular process of the frontal bone and the malar; the supraorbital notch (sometimes a complete foramen) ; and the suture between the frontal bone and the nasal process of the maxilla; and in the inferior segment of the circumference is the malo-maxillary suture. Occasionally, the infraorbital foramen opens by a narrow fissure into the orbit. The roof of the orbit is formed mainly by the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and completed posteriorly by the lesser wing of the sphenoid. At the outer angle it presents the lachrymal fossa for the lachrymal gland, and at the inner angle a depression for the pulley of the su])erior oblique muscle. The floor is formed by the orbital plate of the maxilla, the orbital process of the malar, and the orbital process of the palate bone. At its inner angle it presents the lachrymal canal, and near this a depression for the origin of the inferior oblique muscle. The floor has a furrow for the infraorbital artery and the superior maxillary di\usion of the fifth nerve. The furrow terminates anteriorly in the infraorbital canal, through which the infraorbital nerve and artery emerge on the face. Near the commencement of the canal a narrow passage, the anterior dental canal, runs forwards and downwards in the anterior wall of the antrum ; it conducts nerves to the incisor and canine teeth. The outer wall is very oblique ; it is formed by the orbital surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid, and the malar. Between it and the roof, near the apex, is the sphenoidal fissure, by means of vdiich the third, fourth, ophthalmic division of the fifth, and sixth nerves enter the orbit from the cranial cavity. The lower