THE VEINS 654 2. THE SUPEKFICIAL VEINS OF THE NECK The external jugular vein is formed by the confluence of the posterior auricular and temporo-maxillary veins near the angle of the lower jaw. It runs obliquely downwards and backwards across the sterno-mastoid muscle to a spot opposite the middle of the clavicle, where it terminates as a rule in the subclavian vein. A line drawn from a point midway between the mastoid process and angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle will indicate its course. It is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, and platysma, and is crossed by a few branches of the cervical plexus, the great auricular nerve running parallel to it at the upper part of the neck. It at first crosses the sterno-mastoid obliquely, then runs nearly parallel to the posterior border of that muscle, from which it is separated throughout its course by the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia. Just above the clavicle it perforates the cervical fascia, by which it is prevented from readily collapsing, the fascia being attached to its walls. It then opens into the subclavian vein ; occasionally into the internal jugular, or into the confluence of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. It contains a pair of valves about one inch to two inches above the clavicle, and a second pair where it enters the sub- clavian vein. Both of these valves were shown by Dr. Struthers not to prevent the blood regurgitating, or injections passing from the larger vein into the external jugular. Some anatomists describe the external jugular vein as being formed by the junction of the posterior auricular and occipital veins. The vein here regarded as the upper part of the trunk of the external jugular is looked upon by them merely as a branch of communication between the external jugular and temporo-maxillary vein. The chief variations of the external jugular vein are :—(1) It may be very small, or much smaller or much larger than the opposite vein ; (2) it may be wanting on one or both sides, the veins which normally form it then opening into the internal jugular; (3) it may be formed merely by the posterior auricular vein; (4) it may be perforated by the superficialis colli nerve ; (5) it may receive the facial, the lingual, and the cephalic veins ; (6) it may pass over the clavicle and open into the cephalic or subclavian vein. Tributaries and communications.—From above downwards, the external jugular receives a branch from the internal jugular vein ; the posterior external jugular, which in the foetus was part of the primitive jugular vein ; a large branch connecting it with the facial vein; one or two small branches of communication from the anterior jugular vein ; near its termination, the transverse cervical and supra- scapular veins; and sometimes the anterior jugular vein at the posterior border and hinder surface of the sterno-mastoid. At times the occipital vein opens into the external jugular, and is by some anatomists regarded as the normal termination of the former vein. The posterior external jugular vein descends from the upper and back part of the neck, receiving small tributaries from the superficial structures and muscles. At times it communicates with the occipital, or may appear as a continuation of that vein. It opens into the external jugular as the latter vein is leaving the sterno- mastoid muscle. In the foetus this vein returns the blood from the interior of the cranium through the post-gienoid foramen. Vestiges of the foetal trunk are said to remain in the mastoid vein. The suprascapular veins, two in number, correspond to the suprascapular artery. They usually form one trunk before they open into the external jugular vein. They contain well-marked valves. The transverse cervical veins—or venae comites of the transverse cervical artery —accompany that vessel and open with the suprascapular vein into the external jugular close to the spot where the latter vein joins the subclavian.