699 THOBACIG DUCT thoracic vertebrae, the anterior common ligament, the lower right intercostal arteries, the vena azygos minor, and at times one or more of the mid left intercostal veins, and the vena azygos tertia. To its left is the thoracic aorta, and to its right the vena azygos major and the right pleura. In the superior mediastinum it ascends, between the cesophagns and left pleura, to the posterior and left side of the superior thoracic opening. It here has in front of it the first portion of the left subclavian artery, behind it the upper thoracic vertebrae, to its left the pleura, and to its right the oesophagus. Opening into the thoracic portion of the duct are :—the lymphatics from the left half of the thoracic walls ; the efferent vessels from the left anterior mediastinal and intercostal glands; the lymphatics of the left lung and the left side of the heart; the lymphatics of the trachea and oesophagus, and the right lower internal mammary lymphatics. 3. The cervical portion of the thoracic duct ascends as high as the level of the seventh cervical vertebra, and then curves, downwards and forwards, over the apex of the pleura in front of the subclavian artery, scalenus anticus muscle, and vertebral vein, behind the left internal jugular vein, and behind and subsequently external to the left common carotid artery, and, having received the left jugular lymphatic trunk, opens into the left innominate vein at the confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. The cervical portion receives the lymphatics from the left upper extremity and left side of the head and neck. The chief variations in the thoracic duct.—(1) The thoracic duct may be double ; when this is the case, the left duct may end normally in the left innominate vein, and the right in the correspondin;^ situation on the right side ; or the two ducts may unite at the root of the neck, and open into the left innominate vein. (2) The reduplication ma}" be incom- plete. Thus : (rt) The duct may at first be single, but divide into two separate vessels at a variable distance from its termination, and then (i) one branch of the duct may enter the left confluence of veins at the root of the neck ; the other the right confluence, a normal condition in some animals; or one may enter the confluence of veins in the normal manner, the other either the subclavian or internal jugular vein; or (ii) the two branches ma}" reunite—this is a frequent variety, and is regarded as a normal condition by some anatomists. (6) It may break up into several branches in its com-se through the thorax, forming a plexus of vessels, which subsequently reimite into a single duct. (3) The thoracic duct may lie altogether to the left side of the aorta, and terminate as normal. (4) The duct may open into the confluence of the subclavian and internal jugular veins on the right side, an abnormal arrangement which may occur under the following condi- tions :—{a) when the viscera are transposed ; (&) when there is a right aortic arch without transposition of viscera ; and (c) when the vessels and viscera are normal. (5) The duct may end in the vena azygos maj or. THE LYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS The lymphatics of the abdomen and pelvis may be divided into the parietal, which ramify in the abdominal and pelvic walls; and the visceral, which receive the lymph from the pelvic viscera, and the lymph and chyle from the abdominal viscera. I. THE PARIETAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS . 1. The parietal lymphatic vessels may be subdivided into the superficial, which ramify beneath the skin in the subcutaneous tissue, and include the lymphatics of the skin of the penis and scrotum and of the external genital