460 THE MUSCLES Structure.—Arising from the side of the aponeurosis in a vertical Hne about half an inch from the ridge of the nose, the fibres of the muscular sheet converge as they pass backwards, outwards and downwards, to a narrow band just above and behind the ala nasi. Here they are partly attached to the maxilla, and partly they pass into the adjacent muscles. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, which sends filaments to the deep surface of the muscle near its upper border. Action.—(1) To depress slightly the cartilaginous ridge of the nose ; (2) to throw into vertical wrinkles the side of the nose, as when a bad smell is perceived; (3) to assist the adjacent muscles in dilating the nostril and drawing up parts of the upper lip. Relations.—Superficially, the skin and levator labii superioris ahieque nasi; deeply, the cartilages of the nose. 8. DEPEESSOE AL^E NASI The depressor alae nasi (fig. 311)—named from its action upon the cartilage of the nostril—is a small triangular sheet. Origin.—The incisive fossa of the maxilla. Insertion.—(1) The lower and back part of the cartilage of the ala nasi; (2) the adjacent part of the lower border of the cartilaginous septum nasi. Structure.—Its muscular fibres diverge upwards and outwards from their origin. Nerve-supply.—Small filaments from the buccal branch of the lower division of the facial nerve, which enter the muscle near its outer border. Action.—To draw downwards and inwards the alar cartilage. Relations.—Superficially, the orbicularis oris ; deeply, the maxilla. It is also closely connected with the fibres of the previous muscle and the elevators of the upper lip. 4. LEVATOE LABII SUPEEIOEIS AL^EQUE NASI This muscle will be described with the Muscles of the Mouth. 5. DILATATOE NAEIS ANTEEIOE The dilatator naris anterior (fig. 309)—named from its action and position— is a small quadrilateral sheet. Origin.—The lower edge of the lateral cartilage of the nose. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin covering the ala nasi. Structure.—A thin stratum of muscle, which may occasionally be found passing downwards upon the upper part of the alar cartilage. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial nerve. Action.—To dilate the nostril, e.g. in the expression of anger, or in hard breathing. Relations.—Superficially, the skin below and the compressor narium above; deeply, the cartilages of the ala.