SUBGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY 1184 often be made out—viz. fibres from the lower border of the spine of the scapula the outer edge of the acromion, and the outer third or more of the front of the clavicle: the characteristic knitting of the surface owing to the presence of muscular bundles, separated by depressions caused by the tendinous septa, will also be seen. The muscle will be marked out by a base-line reaching along the above bony points, and two sides converging from its extremities to the apex, a point on the outer surface of the humerus, about its centre. To map out the pectoralis major, a hne should be drawn down the lateral aspect of the sternum as far as the sixth costal cartilage, and then two others marking the borders of the muscle the upper corresponding to the deltoid, the lower starting from the sixth cartilage, and the two converging to the folded tendon, which is inserted as a double layer into the outer bicipital ridge. The pectoralis minor will be marked out by two lines, from the upper border of the third and the lower border of the fifth rib, just external to' Fig. 727.—Section through the Middle of the Eight Upper Arm i (Heath.) ' ! / Cephalic vein MUSCULO-CUTANEO US NERVE Braeh.ialis anticus MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE Superior vrofunda vessels Triceps, with, fibrous intersection Biceps Brachial vessels MEDIAN NERVE ULNAR NERVE Basilic vein, with internal cutaneous nerves Inferior profunda vessels their cartilages, and meeting at the coracoid process. The lower line gives th M level of the long thoracic artery ; the upper, where it meets the line of the axillarv artery, that of the acromio-thoracic. When the arm is abducted and the humerus rotated a little outwards, th^ prominence of a well-developed coraco-brachialis comes into view; a line dra^ from the centre of the clavicle along the inner border of this muscle to its insertiol into the humerus gives the line of the axillary artery. The depression of the axilla is best marked when the arm is raised from th^ side to an angle of about 45°, and when the muscles bounding it in front an(| behind are contracted. In proportion as the arm is raised, the hollow become less, the head of the humerus now projecting into it. When the folds are relaxe by bringing the arm to the side, the fingers can be pushed into the space so as examine it. The circumflex nerve and posterior circumflex vessels wind round the liumeru| below the deltoid, a little above the centre of this muscle.