THE PEBITONEUM 993 ihat the peritoneum forming the lesser sac comes into contact with the spleen, terms one layer of the gastro-splenic omentum, and is in relation with the upper oart of the left kidney. The precise manner in which certain organs—such as the liver, the csecum, the duodenum, and the kidneys—are invested by peritoneum, is described in the account )f those viscera. To such accounts the reader is referred for a description of the nany ' ligaments ' (such as those of the bladder and liver) which are formed by the , Deritoneum. The great omentum.—It vv^ill be seen that the great omentum is formed of four layers of peritoneum, though this is quite impossible to demonstrate in an adult, ,he individual layers having become adherent. The great omentum acts as a sort of apron, protecting the intestines and )roviding them with a heat-economising covering of fat. It is nearly quadrilateral n shape, and is variable in extent. In fig. 564 the great omentum is shown to be connected with the greater curva- ure of the stomach on the one hand, and the transverse colon on the other. This s the arrangement described in the text. Under certain conditions (as shown in j Fig. 564.—Diagram to show the Peritoneum as seen in Vertical Section. (Allen Thomson.) GASTRO-HEI |.g. 563) the posterior layer of the great omentum returns to the posterior parietes, -nd is independent of the transverse meso-colon. This variation is explained in he account of the evolution of the peritoneum (page 1089). Mr. Lockwood has made some investigations on the lengths of the transverse i-ieso-colon and great omentum in thirty-three cases. In twenty under the age of orty-five, only one subject had a great omentum long enough to be drawn beyond he pubic spine ; in five, the omentum reached as far as the pubes. In the cases ;eyond forty-five years, it was the exception rather than the rule to find an mentum which could not be pulled beyond the lower limits of the abdomen. I The lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum consists of a double layer of peritoneum Extending between the lesser curvature of the stomach and the transverse fissure of he liver. If the two anterior layers of the great omentum are traced upwards, hey are seen to enclose the stomach, and then join together again at the lesser iurvature to form the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum (fig. 563). It is connected hove with the transverse fissure of the liver, below with the upper curvature of the Itomach; the left extremity encloses the oesophagus; the right border contains 'he hepatic vessels, and is free and forms the anterior boundary of the foramen t^f Win slow. I 3 S