PERONEUS BBEVIS—EXTEBNAL INTERCOSTALS 417 2. PERONEUS BREVIS i The peroneus brevis (figs. 292, 298)—named from its being the shorter of the two libular muscles—is also a triangular sheet. Oris^in.—(1) The lower two-thirds of the outer (or peroneal) surface of the ibula ; (2) the deep fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septa in front and behind. [ Insertion.—(1) The outer part of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; (2) the l)uter border of the expansion of the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum upon iihe first phalanx of the little toe. i Structure —This is also a penniform muscle. The short fibres pass obliquely orwards and inwards to the tendon which runs along the outer surface of the uscle close to its anterior border. It becomes free from fleshy fibres just above he external malleolus where it passes beneath the external annular ligament in the ame sheath with the peroneus longus tendon, and after changing its direction runs orwards and somewhat downwards upon the outer surface of the calcaneum and hove the peroneal tubercle. Nerve-supply.—The musculo-cutaneous branch of the popliteal nerve by laments which enter the deep aspect of the muscle about the middle of the leg. Action.—(1) Slightly to extend the ankle; (2) to abduct the anterior part of he foot; (3) slightly to elevate the outer border of the foot and so evert the sole. Relations.—Superficially, the peroneus longus, deep fascia of the leg and external jmnular ligament; in front, the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius ; oehind, the peroneus longus and flexor longus hallucis; deeply, the ankle joint, balcaneum, and cuboid bones. f Variations.—The small slip which the tendon sends on to the expansion upon the little toe may be wanting, or it may be inserted into the first or even the second phalanx. This lip may be entirely separate, so as to form a fourth peroneus. THE MUSCLES OF THE THORAX These consist of six muscles, or sets of muscles, which are attached chiefly to the "ibs, their cartilages, and the sternum : viz. the external and internal intercostals, he levatores costarum, the triangularis sterni, infracostales (or subcostales), and "'aphragm. t Intercostal Muscles The intercostal muscles—named from their position—are long narrow sheets of short oblique muscular fibres which occupy the intercostal spaces. The fibres of the outer sheet run downwards and forwards, and those of the inner downwards and backwards; and the two sheets are the upper continuations of the obliquus externus and internus of the abdominal wall. 1. THE EXTERNAL INTERCOSTALS The external intercostals, which are stronger than the intei^nal, are eleven in number, and fill the space between the ribs from the tubercle to the tip. In the higher spaces, however, they do not come quite so far forwards as below. Above, E E