THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION lOlG Fissures.—The fissures on the inferior and posterior surfaces of the hver are arranged very Uke a capital letter H. The left upright of the H is formed by the longitudinal fissure ; the anterior portion containing the umbilical vein is seen on; the inferior surface, and is known as the umbilical fissure; the posterior portion, seen on the posterior surface, contains the ductus venosus, and is therefore called' the fissure of the ductus venosus. The transverse bar of the H is formed by the| transverse or portal fissure, which runs across at right angles to the longitudinal! fissure, and contains the vessels entering the liver, viz. the portal vein, hepatic' artery, and hepatic duct (fig. 580). | The right upright of the H is formed by the fossa of the gall bladder in front ;j it is interrupted by the caudate lobe ; and is continued behind as the fissure ot the vena cava, containing, as its name implies, the inferior vena cava. \ General position.—The liver is situated in the right hypochondriac and epigastric| regions, and usually extends into the left hypochondrium (fig. 582). It is oppositel the tenth and eleventh dorsal vertebrae behind (fig. 583), and on the right side extends! between the seventh and eleventh ribs; in front, it lies behind the sixth, seventh,j Fig. 581.—Posterior Surface of the Liver. Vena cava eighth, and ninth costal cartilages ; and its anterior border corresponds on the right to the line of the margin of the costal cartilages, and to the left it is in contact with the anterior abdominal wall below the sternal notch (fig. 582). The liver is very movable, and alters its position under various circumstances. It is depressed at each inspiration, the anterior border being pushed below the ribs with a deep breath. When lying down, the liver edge is an inch or an inch and a half above the margin of the ribs. In children, the gland being larger in proportion to the body than in the adult state, it extends below the ribs and reaches the left hypochondrium. The liver's extreme left point is about an inch and a half beyond the left margin j of the sternum ; in front, inr the middle line, it reaches to about half way between I the xiphoid cartilage and the navel. The lower edge as it crosses the subcostal angle is represented by a line drawn from the ninth right to the eighth left costal ; cartilage. (Quain.) Its upper limit is indicated by a line crossing the meso-sternum close to its i lower end, and rising on the right side to the level of the fifth chondro-sternal *