975 THE HEABT one or more right auricular branches, and several post-ventricular veins from the back of the left ventricle. The cardiac nerves descend into the superior mediastinum, passing in front of and behind the arch of the aorta, to unite in the formation of the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses. The deep cardiac plexus, the larger and more important, is placed immediately labove the pulmonary artery at its point of division, lying between the trachea and transverse arch of the aorta. It is usually formed by the interlacement of all the cardiac branches, with the exception of the left superior cardiac branch from the sympathetic and the left inferior cardiac from the pneumogastric. A meshwork of branches descends from the plexus, some passing to the right Fig. 556.—Posterior View of the Heart, showing its Arteries and Veins. Right carotid artery Left carotid artery Left subclavian artery Aorta Ductus arteriosus Pulmonary artery Left pulmo7iary veins LEFT AURICLE Left coronary artery Left marginal artery Oblique line of Marshall — Left marginal branch of the great cardiac vein CUT EDGES OF THE LEFT AURICULAR APPENDIX Coronary sinus '-fj' Post-ventricular or smalli r _ posterior cardiac vein Anterior interventricular branch of left coronary arterv Innominate artery Vena cava superior Superior right pulmonary vein RIGHT AURICLE Vena cava inferior Right coronary artery Posterior interventricular or posterior cardiac vein Posterior interventricular branch of right coronary artery nd some to the left. The greater number of the right branches follow the course !f the left coronary artery to form the anterior coronary plexus ; some, however, ass forwards to enter the superficial cardiac plexus. The left branches, which are both larger and more numerous, descend beneath be corresponding pulmonary artery to join the posterior coronary plexus ; seme of bese pass right and left to join the anterior pulmonary plexuses at the roots f the lungs. The superficial cardiac plexus, which lies in front of the right pulmonary artery s it passes beneath the arch of the aorta, is formed by the interlacement of the left aperficial cardiac branch from the sympathetic, the inferior cardiac from the beumogastric, together with branches derived from the deep plexus. A small ranglion, the cardiac ganglion of Wrisberg, is sometimes found close to the right I,