THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION 1020 and right and left lateral ligaments, through the diaphragm, and so into the anterior mediastinal glands; occasionally lymphatics of the right ligament pass straight into the thoracic duct. (2) Of a set passing over the anterior border of the liver I to the glands in the small omentum about the transverse fissure. j On the under surface, the lymphatics to the right of the gall bladder enter the' lumbar glands. | Those round the gall bladder enter -the glands of the lesser omentum. i Those to the left of the gall bladder enter the glands of the oesophagus andi lesser curvature of the stomach. 1 Structure of the liver.—If a section be made of the liver, the following features! in its general structure may be noted :— i Outside of all will be seen the investment of j^eritoneum, which is incomplete i in parts, and which has been already described. Within this a ihin fihrous coat will be observed to invest the entire gland. At| the transverse fissure this coat turns into the substance of the liver with thej branches of the portal vein. " Glisson's capsule.—The capsule is in all parts closely adherent to the gland- substance, and is thickest where the peritoneum is absent. The liver on section is seen to be mottled, and when a portion is torn thai Fig. 584.—Eelation of Structures at and below the Transverse Fissure. (Thane.) surface presents a granular appearance. This is produced by the minute lobules^ (one twenty-fourth to one-twelfth of an inch in diameter) of which the liver tissue is composed. The cut surface will also exhibit the openings of a number of canals. A slight examination will show that these are of two kinds—viz. the canals for the branches of the portal vein and the canals for the hepatic veins. In the iiortal canals the vein is accompanied by a branch of the duct and a branch of the hepatic artery. The vein has thick walls which will be seen to bei more or less collapsed on section. The vessels in the canal are separated from the liver substance by much connective tissue (Glisson's capsule, fig. 585). In the hepatic ca?ials the veins are solitary, their walls are exceedingly thin, and their mouths open and gaping. The wall of the vein is directly adherent to tJae liver substance, no connective tissue capsule intervening. The gall bladder, which retains the bile, is situated between the right andi quadrate lobes on the under surface of the liver. It is of pyriform outline, and when full is seen projecting beyond the anterior border of the liver, coming in > contact with the abdominal wall at the cartilage of the ninth or tenth rib. It extends back as far as the transverse fissure. It measures in length, from before backwards, from two and a half to four inches, | and an inch and a half across at the widest part, and will hold about one ounce. ' GALL BLADDER BILE DUCT Hepatic artery Portal vein