1094 THE UBINARY ORGANS The genital gland arises as a ridge, partly mesoblastic aiid partly due to a thickening o an epithelial layer, the germinal epithelium, on the inner side of the Wolffian body. Th cells, at first indeterminate, soon become differentiated to form the Graafian follicles and ov in the female, and the epitheliimi of the seminiferous tubes in the male; the rest of the ovar or testicle being developed from the mesoblast of the ridge. The gland is at first attache to the Wolffian body. The latter is itself fixed to the posterior wall of the abdominal cavit by a duplicature of peritoneum called the mesorchium, or mesovarium, from which a little fo] I containing muscular fibre is prolonged downwards to become the gubernaculum testis in th male, or, after connection with the uterus, the round ligament in the female. Fig. 645.—Development of the Urino-generative Organs, Female Type (After Henle.) (The parts formed from the Miillerian duct in this and the succeeding diagram are indicated by horizontal shading; those formed from the Wolffian body and duct, by diagonal cross-hatching.) Bound ligament CRUS CLITORIDIS BULBUS VESTIBULI VULVAR CLEFT OVARY FALLOPIAN TUBE PAROVARIUM ; , ; URETHRA GLAND OF BARTHOLIN The Miillerian duct begins as a slender cord lying parallel to, and on the outer side the Wolffian duct. It becomes canalised and opens distally into the cloaca. After a ti it fuses with its fellow mesially a short distance above the terminal aperture, and the ci ■ joint tube is bound together with the adjacent Wolffian ducts into a kind of stem called ; genital cord. In the male the Miillerian duct never appears to discharge any function, f its useless relics are to be traced in the sinus pocularis and hydatid of Morgagni; but ji the female it gives rise to nearly the whole of the internal apparatus of generation; > upper extremity, above the line of fusion in the human subject, forming the oviduct and * hydatid appendage, the conjoint tube developing the uterus and vagina. Variations |t the point of fusion of the two ducts may lead to the abnormality of a two-horned utei I, or even a double uterus and vagina. Exceptionally MiiUer's duct may form a rudiment ' uterus in the male. In such cases the testes are weU developed, but the penis rema} very small. i The external genitals are developed about the cloacal outlet common to the gen: !■ urinary- and intestinal canals. The first change is the appearance of a genital eminer i,