357 THE INTEBOSSEI A.t this place a small bursa separates the tendon from the deep transverse igament, and the lateral ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. Nerve-supply.—From the iniier cord of the brachial plexus (through the bighth cervical nerve), by small filaments which, coming from the deep branch of !,he ulnar nerve, pass into the upper part of the muscles upon their anterior aspect. I Action and relations.— Vide infra. I Of the four dorsal interossei, the first forms a thick triangular sheet, while the !)ther three are fusiform and prismatic. Origin.—From the five metacarpal bones, each muscle arising from the adjacent jmrfaces of the two bones bounding an interosseous space. i Insertion.—(1) Into the sides of the aponeuroses of the extensor communis liigitorum tendons ; and (2) the adjacent parts of the first phalanges. j Structure.—The fleshy fibres arise from the adjacent surfaces of the metacarpal Fig. 282.—The Dorsal Interossei. )ones in bipenniform fashion, and converge upon a tendon which, beginning about ihe middle of the interosseous space, becomes free just above the metacarpo- phalangeal joint, and then passes beneath the deep transverse ligament to its nsertion into the side of the aponeurosis, and into the upper part of the border of lihe first phalanx. j The j^7^s^ muscle is thick and by far the strongest, and forms with the adductor bohicis the fleshy web which fills the interval between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and the index finger. ' Its origin from the first metacarpal bone occupies he upper half of that bone, while that from the second is more extensive. It is nserted into the radial side of the aponeurosis upon the back of the first phalanx well as into the upper part of the outer border of that bone. The second is nserted into the radial side of the aponeurosis upon the first phalanx of the middle finger and into the adjacent bone. The third into the ulnar side of the aponeurosis upon the back of the first phalanx of the middle finger and into