THE EYELIDS 903 A central connective tissue separates the orbicularis muscle from the tarsus in the tarsal division of the lids. In the upper lid this is to be regarded as mainly the anterior or fibrous expansion of the tendon of the levator palpebrse, which sends connective tissue septa between the bundles of the overlying orbicularis (as just mentioned) going to the skin. In the orbital part of this lid the central con- nective tissue includes also the palpebral fascia, lying here immediately beneath the orbicularis muscle ; but this soon thins off and fades into the more deeply placed ' levator expansion. This latter is strengthened by an extension of the sheath of the superior rectus, by which this muscle is enabled to influence the elevation of the lid indirectly. In the lower lid the central connective tissue similarly consists of palpebral fascia, blended with a thin fibrous extension of the sheath of the inferior rectus. Immediately in front of each tarsus is a little loose connective tissue, which contains the large blood-vessels and nerves of the lids. The tarsus of each lid is a stiff plate of close connective tissue, with its sur- . faces directed anteriorly and posteriorly ; in its substance the Meibomian glands I are embedded. One tarsal border is free, viz. towards the edge of the lid, the I other is attached ; the former is straight, while the latter is convex, especially in the upper lid. The length of each tarsus is about twenty millimetres. Its breadth I is greatest in the middle of the lid, and becomes gradually smaller towards each I canthus, where the tarsi are joined to the outer and inner palpebral ligaments. The [ breadth of the upper tarsus (10 mm.) is about twice that of the lower. The thickness i of each is greatest, and its texture closest, at the middle of its length, thinning off j towards the canthi and towards both borders. Into the superior anterior border of the upper tarsus the lower layer of the levator expansion is attached, consisting of smooth muscle-fibres constituting the superior palpebral muscle of Miiller. In like manner, at the inferior border of the lower tarsus, bundles of smooth muscle fibre are inserted (the inferior palpebral muscle of Miiller), developed in what has been regarded as part of the extension of the sheath of the inferior rectus. The palpebral conjunctiva is firmly adherent to the back of the tarsus ; but in the orbital part of the lid loose subconjunctival tissue intervenes between it and Miiller's palpebral muscle. Adenoid tissue occurs in the substance of the conjunc- tiva, especially in its orbital division. Near the upper fornix, the conjunctiva receives expansions of the tendon of the levator palpebrse and of the sheath of the superior rectus, and, at the lower fornix, of the sheath of the inferior rectus. The : surface of the tarsal conjunctiva shows small elevations or papillae everywhere ; I but these are particularly well marked over the attached border of the tarsus. ' Glands of the eyelids.—From its manner of formation the eyelid may be regarded as consisting of two thicknesses of skin, the inner (or posterior) having ! been doubled back upon the outer at the edge of the lid; thus the cuticle and corium of the skin proper are represented respectively by the conjunctiva and tarsus of the inner thickness. At the free border of the lid, accordingly, we find glands corresponding to the sebaceous and sweat glands of the skin, viz. large sebaceous glands of the cilia (Zeiss's glands) and Moll's modified sweat glands. Again, in the i inner skin-thickness of the lid, the Meibomian glands of the tarsus are sebaceous, i and acino-tubular glands present at the attached border of the tarsus (Waldeyer's glands) may be reckoned as modified sweat glands. Glands similar in structure to Waldeyer's also occur at the fornix, and are especially abundant near the outer canthus of the upper lid, close to the efferent ducts of the lachrymal gland ; from their structure, and the character of their secretion, these acinous or acino-tubular i glands have been termed by Henle ' accessory lachrymal glands.' Other simple tubular glands (Henle), formed merely by the depressions between the papillae, are best developed in the inner and outer fourths of the tarsal conjunctiva cf both lids.