276 THE ARTICULATIONS humerus. The articular surface of the tibia shdes forwards in extension anc backwards in flexion ; thus the axis round which the tibia revolves upon th( femur is a shifting one, as is seen b}^ reference to fig. 250, B, C, D. 3. Another point of difference is that extension is accompanied by rotatioi outwards, and flexion by rotation inwards, This rotation occurs round a vertical axis drawn through the middle of the outer condyle of the femur and the oute ^ tuberosity of the tibia, and is most marked at the termination of extension and a the commencement of flexion. This rotation of the leg at the knee is a trua rotation about a vertical axis, and thus differs from the obliquity of the flexion anq extension movements at the elbow which is due to the oblique direction of th| articular surfaces of the bones. 4. The antero-posterior spiral curve of the femoral condyles is such, that th anterior part is an arc of a greater circle than the posterior ; hence certain ligament which are tightened during extension are relaxed during flexion, and thereby Fig. 252.—Crucial Ligaments in Flexion. considerable amount of rotatory movement is permitted in the flexed positioi This is called pronation and supination. The axis of this rotation is vertical, an passes through the inner tubercle of the spine of the tibia, so that the outt tuberosity moves in the arc of a larger circle than does the inner, and is therefoi required to move more freely and easily ; hence the shape of the external articula facet and the loose connection of the external semilunar cartilage which is adapte to it. In extension, all the ligaments are on the stretch with the exception of ttj ligamentum patellae and front of the capsule. Extension is checked by both tJ crucial ligaments and the lateral ligaments (figs. 250, A, B, and 251). In flexion the ligamentum patellae and anterior portion of the capsule are o the stretch; so also is the posterior crucial in extreme flexion, though it is n quite tight in the semiflexed state of the joint. All the other ligaments a relaxed (fig. 250, C, D), although the relaxation of the anterior crucial ligament