THE WBIST AND HAND 1199 lescends about half an inch lower than that of the radius, and is somewhat anterior 0 it. Abduction of the hand is thus less free than adduction. In Colles' fracture, he line of fracture, usually transverse, crosses the radius about an inch above the ;pex of the styloid process. Between the apex of the styloid process and the ball »f the thumb a bony ridge can be felt, with some difficulty, formed by the tubercle )f the scaphoid and the ridge of the trapezium. At a corresponding point on the nner side the pisiform can be more readily distinguished. On the front of the netacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb the sesamoid bones can be distinguished. At the back of the wrist and hand the cuneiform bone can be felt below the head )f the ulna ; and more towards the middle line the prominence of the os magnum, khich supports the third or longest digit, and is the bone of the carpus most exposed 0 injury. A line drawn from the base of the fifth metacarpal bone to the radio- larpal joint, slightly curved downwards, will give the line of the carpo-metacarpal oints. (Windle.) \fiG. 743.—Eelation of the Palmar Arches to the Folds of the Palm. (Tillaux.) Superficial Beep When the fingers are flexed, it will be seen that in each case it is the proximal )one which forms the prominence ; thus, the knuckle is formed by the head of the netacarpal, the interphalangeal prominence by the head of the first phalanx, and he distal one by the head of the second. Thus, the joint in each case lies below he prominence, the distal joint being one-twelfth of an inch, the interphalangeal ime-sixth, and the metacarpo-phalangeal one-third below its prominence. Skin folds.—Two or three of these are seen on the palmar surface of the wrist; wo lower down, and usually close together ; and one less well marked a little higher ip upon the forearm. None of these correspond exactly to the wrist joint (page 1194). rhe lowest ' precisely crosses the arch of the os magnum in the line of the third betacarpal bone' (Tillaux), and is not quite three-quarters of an inch below the iirch of the wrist joint. It is about half an inch above the carpo-metacarpal joint ine, and indicates very fairly the upper border of the anterior annular ligament. The thenar and hypothenar eminences are separated by a triangular interval »vith the apex upwards; this apex corresponds to the upper border of the mterior annular ligament. ' Of the many creases in the skin of the palm, three