THE KNEE JOINT 271 ight in extreme flexion (fig. 252). Flexion is only checked during life by the ' ntact of the soft parts, i.e. the calf with the back of the thigh. Pronation, or inward rotation, is checked by the anterior crucial ligament; the jteral ligaments being loose. I Supination, or outward rotation, is checked by the lateral ligaments ; the crucial ^aments have no controlling effect on it, as they are untwisted by it. Sliding movements are checked by the crucials and lateral ligaments—sliding rwards especially by the anterior, and sliding backwards by the posterior crucial. 3. THE TIBIO-FIBULAK UNION The fibula is connected with the tibia throughout its length by an interosseous embrane, and at the upper and lower extremities by means of two joints. Very tie movement is permitted between the two bones. (a) The superior tibio-fibular joint. I (b) The middle tibio-fibular union. * (c) The inferior tibio-fibular joint. (a) The Superior Tibio-fibular Joint Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivisior.—Arth rodia. The superior tibio-fibular joint is about a quarter of an inch (6 mm) below, and 'te distinct from, the knee at its upper and anterior part ; but at its posterior and perior aspect, where the border of the outer tuberosity of the tibia is bevelled f the popliteus muscle, the joint is in the closest proximity to the bursa beneath e tendon of that muscle, and is only separated from the knee-joint by a thin ptum of areolar tissue. There is often a communication between the synovial vities of the two joints. The ligaments uniting the bones are :— Capsular. Anterior tibio-fibular. Posterior tibio-fibular. The capsular lig^ament is a well-marked fibro-areolar structure ; it is attached ose round the articular margins of the tibia and fibula, on the latter bone "tending a little distance from the margin behind and below. In front it is shut completely from the knee-joint by the capsule of the knee and the coronary ament; but behind, it is often very thin, and may communicate with the bursa der the popliteus tendon. The anterior tibio-fibular ligament (fig. 251) consists of a few fibres which ss upwards and inwards from the fibula to the tibia. It lies beneath the terior portion of the tendon of the biceps. The posterior tibio-fibular ligament (fig. 245) consists of a few fibres which ss upwards and inwards between the adjacent bones, from the head of the fibula ) the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The superior interosseous ligament consists of a mass of dense yellow fibro- "eolar tissue, binding the opposed surfaces of the bones together for three-quarters an inch (2 cm.) below the articular facets. It is continuous with the interosseous embrane along the tibia. The biceps tendon is divided by the long external lateral ligament of the knee ; the two divisions the anterior is byfar the stronger, and is attached to the xternal tuberosity of the tibia as well as to the front of the head of the fibula, and aiis the muscle, acting on both bones, tends to brace them tighter together ; indeed, ' holds the bones strongly together after all other connections have been severed.