825 SPINAL NEBVES Classification and number.—There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves, viz.— eight cervical, twelve thoracic, five lumbar, five sacral, and one coccygeal nerve. The cervical nerves are named from the vertebrae below them; the thoracic, Imiibar, sacral and coccygeal nerves from the vertebras above them. The first cervical or suboccipital nerve escapes through the interval between the occipital bone and the atlas ; the eighth cervical passes through the intervertebral foramen between the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebras. General distribution.—Each spinal nerve, at its exit from the intervertebral foramen, gives a small recurrent branch (Luschka), which receives a communicating twig from the sympathetic, and re-enters the neural canal to be distributed to the meninges and blood-vessels within the canal. Immediately after its exit each nerve divides into an anterior and a posterior primary division. Both the anterior and posterior primary divisions are mixed nerves, containing fibres derived from both the anterior and the posterior roots. The posterior primary divisions are, with two exceptions, smaller than the anterior divisions. The posterior divisions of the first and second cervical nerves are larger than the anterior ; that of the second cervical nerve being three or four times as large as the anterior division. In the regions of the great plexuses (brachial, lumbar, and sacral) the anterior division is very much larger than the posterior, particularly in the case of the upper sacral nerves. The posterior primary divisions are distributed to the integument of the occiput, posterior aspect of the neck, of the back, and of the greater part of the gluteal region. They also supply 1 the muscles of the posterior part of the neck and the muscles of the back, with the exception of such of the posterior cervical and dorsal muscles as are connected with the superior extremity, the serrati postici, and the levatores costarum. The anterior primary divisions may be broadly stated to supply the anterior surface of the body from the level of the chin downwards, and also the limbs. Each anterior division is connected with the sympathetic system by rami communicantes. The anterior divisions contrast forcibly with the posterior divisions in the great size that they attain to in the lower cervical and lumbo-sacral regions. In these regions they communicate with one another to form plexuses, from which a number of branches are given off* to supply the limbs. POSTEEIOE PEIMAEY DIVISIONS The posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves are, with the exception of the first and second cervical nerves, smaller than the anterior divisions. With the exception of the first cervical, the fourth and fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerves, each nerve divides shortly after its commencement into an internal and an external branch. CERVICAL NERVES.—The posterior divisions of the first and second cervical require separate description. The third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves are of small size. They pass backwards at the outer border of the semispinalis colli, and divide into internal and external branches. The internal branches pass between the semispinalis colli and the complexus, giving twigs to both these muscles and to the multifidus spinae. They then pass between the complexus muscle and the ligamentum nuchas, pierce the origin of the trapezius, and are distributed to the integument of the back of the neck. As they enter the fasciae they are directed upwards and outwards. The branch from the third nerve is directed nearly vertically upwards, and is called the third or smallest occipital nerve. It communicates with the great occipital nerve and reaches the integument of the occiput.