448 THE MUSCLES Nerve-supply.—The internal divisions of the posterior branches of the thoracic spinal nerves. Action.—To extend and laterally flex the lower cervical and upper thoracic spines. The uppermost tendons will also assist in rotating the lower part of the neck to the opposite side. Relations.—Superficially, the spinalis and longissimus dorsi; deeply, the multi- fidus spinse. 3. SEMISPINALIS COLLI The semispinalis colli—named from the attachment of one half the muscle, i.e. the insertion, to the spines of the cervical vertebrae—is a somewhat triangular sheet, with a serrated base placed vertically along the transverse processes, and the apex at the spine of the second cervical vertebra. Origin.—The back of the transverse processes of the five or six upper thoracic vertebrae. Insertion.—The spines of the second to the fifth cervical vertebrae. Structure.—Arising by short tendons, the fleshy fibres pass upwards and inwards, bridging over in their course five or six vertebrae, and are inserted by still shorter tendons into the spines of the cervical vertebrae. The highest is by far the largest. Nerve-supply.—The internal divisions of the posterior branches of the lower cervical nerves, the upper ones entering the muscle on its superficial, and the lower on its deep aspect. Action.—(1) To extend; (2) to flex laterally ; (3) to rotate to the opposite side, the second and following cervical vertebrae. Relations.—Superficially, the complexus, from which it is separated by branches of the posterior cervical nerves and the anastomosis of the arteria profunda cervicis with the arteria princeps cervicis ; deeply, the multifidus spinae. j 4. MULTIFIDUS SPIN^ The multifidus spinae—named from its many divisions {miiltus, many ; findx), \ to cleave)—is a compound muscle, fleshy and thick in the sacral and lumbar regions, i but becoming thin and more aponeurotic in the thoracic and cervical regions. | Origin.—(1) The groove in the back of the sacrum, between the spines and the j elevations which represent articular processes, the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, | and the deep surface of the tendon of the erector spinae ; (2) the mammillary processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; (3) the back of the transverse processes of all the ; thoracic vertebrae ; (4) the articular processes of the fourth to the sixth cervical | vertebrae, and the back of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. | Insertion.—The lower borders of the spines of the vertebrae from the last ] lumbar to the second cervical. I Structure.—Arising by tendinous fibres superficially, but by fleshy fibres deeply,. the bundles of each element of the muscle diverge, the more superficial ones running obliquely upwards and inwards so as to bridge three vertebrae, while the deeper ones pass more transversely to the third, second, and in t£ie neck, the next vertebra above. Consequently, the more superficial fibres from one vertebra overlap the deeper ones from some of the vertebrae above. Nerve-supply.—The internal divisions of the posterior branches of the spinal; nerves from the second cervical to the third sacral. Action.—To extend, laterally flex, and to rotate to the opposite side, the: various parts of the spinal column. Relations.—Superficially, the erector spinae, longissimus and spinalis dorsi, the semispinalis dorsi and colli; deeply, the rotatores spinas. 1 It