475 STEBNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID—STEBNO'HYOin jnovements are the phrenic and those which supply certain of the muscles of the leck. (5) If the head be much thrown back, the two sterno-mastoids may be used 0 increase the extension. Relations.—Superficially, the deep cervical fascia and integuments, the platysma iiyoides, external jugular vein, and many of the superficial branches of the ervical plexus, and the glandule concatenatae ; deeply, the rectus capitis anticus Liajor, omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid, the posterior belly of the igastric, the splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulae, and three scalene muscles; the common, external, and internal carotid and subclavian arteries, with several 'ranches of the external carotid, the internal jugular, facial, thyroid, anterior Ligular, and other veins ; the spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves, the cervical jnd upper part of the brachial plexuses with many of their branches, the lateral lobe |f the thyroid gland, and numerous deep cervical lymphatic glands. Variations.— The clavicular origin may extend farther outwards upon the collar bone, jiesides its insertion into the mastoid process, this head may have an attachment to the iiperior nuchal line, called the cleido-occijntal. An extension of the sternal head has een observed arising from the costal cartilages as low as that of the fifth rib. Slips Dinetimes pass fi^om the upper part of the muscle to the angle of the jaw, the pharynx, be auricle, or the upper attachment of the trapezius. THE INFEA-HYOID MUSCLES The infra-h3^oid muscles form a group of four long flat muscles, arranged in livo layers, and enveloped by the deep layer of the cervical fascia. SuPEEFiciAL Layer This consists of two muscles—the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid. 1. STERNO-HYOID The sterno-hyoid (figs. 301, 314)—named from its two attachments—is long and ibbon-shaped. Origin,—(1) The back of the manubrium (presternum) just internal to the ptches for the clavicle and first rib ; (2) the back of the posterior sterno-clavicular b-ament; (3) the back of the inner end of the clavicle external to the facet for ;ie first costal cartilage. Insertion.—The lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, close to the middle Qe. 1 Structure.—It arises fleshy, and forms a band of parallel fibres, which approach le middle line as they ascend, and are inserted by a short tendon. i Nerve-supply.—From the first three cervical nerves through the descendens 1 id communicans hypoglossi, which send filaments to its deep surface near its )per end. Action.—To draw down the body of the hyoid bone, e.g. after it has been raised I, swallowing; also to fix it when the muscles which pass upwards from it are i ^pressing the tongue, as in suction. I delations.—Superficially, the deep cervical fascia, sterno-mastoid, sterno- avicular joint, anterior jugular vein; deeply, the sterno-thyroid, crico-thyroid, yroid and cricoid cartilages, the trachea, thyroid isthmus, the anterior jugular I id inferior thyroid veins.