746 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM I In the anterior part of the ventricle the floor is marked off from the lateral walls | by the anterior pillars of the fornix, which, after forming part of the anterior boundary, sweep backwards with an inclination downwards : in this situation they are covered by a thin layer of the central grey substance of the ventricle, and project as slight ridges. The third ventricle is relatively shallow for about the posterior third of its extent, but in its anterior two-thirds it presents a deep recess j which is divided into an anterior and a posterior part by a prominent ridge. This j ridge is formed by the junction of the tuber cinereum and the lamina cinerea above the optic commissure. The floor is formed by the following structures :— behind, by the tegmental portion of the diverging crura cerebri, and between them by the posterior perforated space ; in front of this by the corpora albicantia, the tuber cinereum with the infundibulum and the lamina cinerea. The latter slopes upwards to the anterior commissure, and is relegated by some anatomists to the | anterior wall instead of to the floor. | The central grey matter of the third ventricle is continuous behind with the grey matter | of the aqueduct of Sylvius, and passes in front into the basal grey commissure. It also i covers the lower parts of the internal surfaces of the optic thalami, and gives a thin covering to the anterior pillars of the fornix and to the bundles of Vicq d'Azyr. The optic thalami are a pair of large ganglia placed one on each side of the third ventricle. Each optic thalamus is a short prismatic body whose long axis is i directed forwards and inwards. This axis is not straight, but is slightly curved with its convexity upwards. The thalamus presents an anterior and a posterior extremity or tubercle, and four surfaces: a superior and an internal which are free, and an inferior and an external which are imbedded in the cerebral substance. The anterior tubercle is a blunt rounded point which forms the posterior boundary of the foramen of Monro. The posterior tubercle, or pulvinar, \ is broader than the anterior, and is compressed from above downwards. It is | directed backwards and downwards; it is continued externally into the outer j ( geniculate body, and overhangs the inner geniculate body. It is placed above and | in front of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, but is separated from I the cavity of the latter by the choroid plexus. The superior surface shows a slight convexity, more pronounced in the antero-posterior than in the transverse | direction. It is covered with a layer of white fibres. It presents a groove, the sulcus i choroideus, which underlies the free edge of the fornix, separated from the latter only by the velum interpositum. This groove marks off an antero-external area, i wider in front than behind, which ends in the anterior tubercle and which forms j part of the floor of the lateral ventricle. Internal to the sulcus choroideus is a i larger area, which is covered by the fornix and velum interpositum. This area is i limited internally for about its anterior half by the stria pinealis, or peduncle of j the pineal body, a white bundle of fibres which runs along the sharp edge which separates the superior from the median surface. The posterior part of this area | slopes gradually into the pulvinar. Between the superior surface and the posterior j part of the stria pinealis is a small triangular area, the trigonum. habenulae, which | is sunk below the level of the adjacent part of the thalamus. The internal } surface is nearly flat and bounds the cavity of the third ventricle, towards which j it presents a slight convexity. It is of a pale-grey colour owing to a thick layer 1 of ependyma covering the ganglionic substance, and is united to its fellow of the | opposite side by a broad band of grey matter, the middle or grey commissure (commissura mollis). It is crossed at its lower margin by a groove, the sulcus of j Monro, which passes from the foramen of Monro to the commencement of the j aqueduct of Sylvius. The external surface rests against the fibres of the inner j capsule behind the genu, being separated from the nucleus lenticularis by the inner i capsule. The inferior surface is placed over the crus cerebri, on the tegmental j part of which it rests.