THE VEINS 666 the united trunk crosses the common carotid artery and opens into the internal jugular vein. At times these tributaries open separately into the internal jugular vein or into the facial vein. The superior thyroid vein emerges from the upper part of the thyroid body, in which it freely anastomoses with the other thyroid veins, both in the substance of the organ, and on its surface beneath the capsule. Thence it passes upwards and outwards into the internal jugular vein, crossing the common carotid artery in its course. At times it forms a common trunk with the facial vein. Its tributaries are the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid veins from the muscles bearing those names ; and the crico-thyroid and superior laryngeal vein, which correspond with the crico-thyroid and superior laryngeal arteries respectively. These require no special description. The middle thyroid vein passes out from the capsule of the thyroid gland near the lower part of the lateral lobe of that body, crosses the common carotid obliquely downwards and outwards, and opens into the internal jugular vein a little below the cricoid cartilage. The Infeeige Thyeoid Veins The inferior thyroid veins descend from the lower part of the thyroid body obliquely outwards and downwards to the innominate veins. The right vein crosses the innominate artery just before its bifurcation, and ends in the right innominate vein a little above the superior vena cava. It receives inferior laryngeal veins and veins from the trachea, and has valves at its termination in the innomi- nate. The left vein passes obliquely over the trachea behind the sterno-thyroid muscle, and opens into the left innominate vein. It also receives laryngeal and tracheal veins, and is guarded by valves where it opens into the innominate trunk. The inferior thyroid veins communicate across the trachea by transverse branches. The Veetebeal Veins The vertebral vein (fig. 342) does not accompany the vertebral artery in its fourth stage, that is, within the skull, but begins as a plexus of small veins in the suboccipital triangle. It then enters the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, and passes with the vertebral artery through the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, forming a plexus around the artery. On leaving the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra it crosses in front of the subclavian artery and opens into the innominate vein. It has one or two semilunar valves at its entrance into the innominate vein. In the suboccipital triangle it communicates with the intraspinal, deep cervical, and occipital veins, and is joined by veins from the recti and oblique muscles and the pericranium. Tributaries.—As it passes down the neck it receives (1) lateral spinal veins, which issue along with the cervical nerves and lateral spinal arteries from the spinal canal; (2) branches from the venous plexus about the bodies of the cervical vertebrae and their transverse processes; (3) branches from the deep cervical muscles; and (4) branches from the cervical dorsal spinal veins. Just before it terminates in the innominate it is joined by (5) the deep cervical vein (sometimes); (6) the anterior vertebral vein; and (7) the upper superior intercostal vein (sometimes). The anterior vertebral vein begins in a plexus in front of the bodies of the cervical vertebrae, and, running downwards with the ascending cervical artery between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, opens into the vertebra>l vein just before the latter ends in the innominate. It receives tributaries from the scaleni, longus colli, and rectus capitis anticus muscles. The deep cervical vein, which is really a part of the posterior superficial vein of the scalp, is described with that vein (page 652).