LATERAL VENTRICLES Tdl Dissection.—The operculum should next be pulled upwards, when the small portion of substance still attaching it to the brain will be broken through. A complete view of the island of Eeil is then obtained. Lastly, the student should make a series of thin sagittal sections through the island of Reil and the frontal lobe until the great transverse fissmx and its relation to the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle is seen (fig. 417). The sections will pass through the lenticular and caudate nuclei of the corpus striatum and through the optic thalannis. The inferior or descending cornu pursues a more curved and complicated course than the other two cornna. It is directed at first outwards and backwards, and then bends somewhat sharply downwards; lastly, it sweeps forwards with an inclination inwards, following the long axis of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. In Fig. 416.—Coronal Section of the Head passing through the Posterior Horns of the Lateral Ventricles. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) Lateral sinus t'o IIPCS DKXTATi\][ Tentorium eerebeUi ! transverse section it is seen to be somewhat triangular, presenting a floor, an inner wall, and a curved roof wdiicli bounds the cavity above and externally. The floor is formed by the eminentia collateralis. The following structures appear on the inner wall:—the hippocampus major, ending in the pes hippocampi; the corpus fimbriatum ; and the choroid plexus, the latter apparently passing through a fissure (the great transverse fissure). The roof is formed from within outw^ards by the taenia semicircularis, by the narrow posterior prolongation of the caudate nucleus of the corpus striatum, and by the tapetum. At the extremity of the cornu the roof is formed by the amygdaloid tubercle. The taenia semicircularis and caudate I nucleus may be traced to this tubercle. The eminentia collateralis is a smooth triangular elevation, which commences I in the interval between the hippocampus major and minor, and extends, narrowing as it proceeds, nearly to the extremity of the descending cornu. It is the indenta- tion of the ventricular wall produced by the collateral fissure. j The hippocampus major, or cornu Ammonis, is a curved white body which ends in a blunt extremity (pes hippocampi), on which are small indentations, giving it 3 B