DEL TOID—S UPBA-SPINA TUS—INFBA-SPINATUS 317 circumflex arteries and nerve, and a large bursa Avhich separates the muscle from Ithe greater tuberosity of the humerus and the structures attached to it; below, it comes into contact with the upper part of the brachialis anticus. Variations.—The clavicular portion of its origin may reach inwards as far as that of the pectoralis major, and the two muscles may blend along their adjacent borders. Behind, it may receive separate bands from the fascia infra-spinata or the borders of the scapula. • Occasionally transverse fibres have been found lying in the substance of the muscle close to its acromial origin. 1 2. SUPRA-SPINATUS The supra-spinatus—named from its position above the spine of the scapula— I is a somewhat fan-shaped, thick triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The inner two-thirds of the supraspinous fossa ; (2) the upper surface of the spine of the scapula ; and (3) the fascia covering the muscle. Insertion.—(1) The upper facet of the greater tuberosity of the humerus ; and (2) the capsular ligament of the shoulder joint. Structure.—It arises by fleshy fibres which converge upon a tendon which is concealed in the substance of the muscle almost to the point of its insertion. Nerve-supply.—From the brachial plexus (through the fifth cervical nerve) by the suprascapular branch which enters the muscle upon its deep aspect near its upper border. Action.—It assists the deltoid in abducting the arm; it also strengthens the shoulder joint by resisting the tendency to upward displacement of the head of the humerus, and by drawing the head of the humerus firmly tow^ards the centre of the glenoid cavity. Relations.—Superficially, the trapezius, deltoid, and coraco-acromial ligament; deeply, the omo-hyoid muscle and capsular ligament, the suprascapular vessels and nerve. Variations.—It occasionally receives part of the tendon of the pectoralis minor. 3. INFRA-SPINATUS The infra-spinatus—named from its position below the spine of the scapula— is a fan-shaped, thick, triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The inner two-thirds of the infraspinous fossa ; (2) the under surface of the spine of the scapula ; (3) the infraspinous fascia, and a thick inter- muscular septum which separates it from the teres minor and major muscles. Insertion.-^(l) The middle facet on the greater tuberosity of the humerus ; and (2) the capsule of the shoulder joint. Structure.—Its origin is by fleshy fibres which converge outwards in bipenni- form fashion upon the tendon. Frequently that part which arises from the lower surface of the spine of the scapula overlies and is somewhat separate from the rest. Its insertion into the capsule and tuberosity is by a tendon which is almost entirely concealed by fleshy fibres. Nerve-supply.—From the brachial plexus (through the fifth cervical nerve), by the suprascapular branch which enters the deep surface of the muscle at its outer part and near its upper border. Action.—It is the chief external rotator of the humerus. This movement of external rotation is through about 90°, and is of great importance. When the elbow is bent, it produces the lateral movement of the hand by which, in writing, the pen is carried from left to right across the page. When the elbow is extended, the rotation of the humerus adds considerably to the range of rotatory movement