832 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM the hyoid bone (commnnicantes liypoglossi), and to the diaphragm (phrenic nerve). 2. The branch to the rectus capitis lateralis is furnished to that muscle by the first nerve as it crosses the deep surface of the muscle. 3. The nerve to the rectus capitis anticus minor is given off by the first nerve at the upper part of the loop in front of the transverse process of the atlas. 4. The nerve to the rectus capitis anticus major is derived from twigs from the first and second cervical nerves. ! 5. The nerve to the longus colli is formed by twigs from the second and third cervical nerves. 6. The commnnicantes hypoglossi are given off by the second and third cervical nerves, and run obliquely downwards and inwards in front of tlie great vessels of the neck to form a loop, the ansa hypoglossi, with the so-called descendens hypoglossi. I They supply the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. (See Hypoglossal Nerve.). I 7. The PHRENIC NERVE may arise by one, two, or three roots, the strongest, ' and occasionally the only, root being derived from the fourth cervical nerve. A root from the fifth is commonly present, and is usually associated either with the nerve i to the subclavius or with the communicating branch which passes from the cervical ] to the brachial plexus. A slender root from the third nerve is occasionally present. The cervical sympathetic also furnishes a communicating twig. The phrenic nerve passes downwards and inwards under cover of the sterno-mastoid, crossing obliquely ; in front of the scalenus anticus muscle, and passes behind the subclavian vein to I enter the thorax. In this situation it crosses in front of the commencement of the j internal mammary artery, and is commonly joined at this point by a communica- .; ting twig from the nerve to the subclavius muscle. j The further course of the phrenic differs on the two sides. On the right side the nerve passes dow^nwards, running on the outer side of the right innominate ; vein, the superior vena cava, and the pericardium, between these structures and i the pleura. In its course between the pericardium and pleura it crosses in front | of the root of the lung. It then pierces the diaphragm immediately on the ! left side of the opening for the vena cava inferior, and is distributed to the i diaphragm, the branches entering the muscle on its lower surface. On the I left side the phrenic nerve passes on to the left side of the so-called transverse j portion of the aortic arch between the latter and the pleura, and in front of the inferior cervical cardiac branch of the vagus. It then runs downwards between the pericardium and the pleura in front of the root of the lung, i taking a longer course than on the right side in consequence of the inclina- j tion of the heart to the left side, and also on account of the lower level of the left j cupola of the diaphragm. It pierces the diaphragm immediately to the left of the attachment of the pericardium to that muscle, and is distributed to its abdominal j surface in a similar manner to the nerve on the right side. Branches.—Minute twigs are supplied [a) to the pleura ; and {h) to the peri- cardium. On the right side the nerve communicates with the diaphragmatic plexus of the sympathetic, forming a small ganglion (ganglion diaphragmaticum). BEACIIIAL PLEXUS The BRACHIAL PLEXUS is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the four lower cervical nerves, the greater part of the first thoracic nerve, and is usually joined by small communicating twigs from the fourth cervical and second thoracic nerves. The four lower cervical nerves emerge in the interval between the anterior and j middle scaleni muscles. The first thoracic nerve, after traversing the intervertebral I foramen between the first and second thoracic vertebrae, appears in the first inter- costal space and, after giving off the small first intercostal nerve, crosses the inner