THE EAB 917 to form the ampulla. As two of the canals join to open by a common orifice, collectively they present only five openings. The superior semicircular canal, the highest of the canals, is almost vertical, and is directed transversely. A smooth eminence on the anterior surface of the petrous bone closely corresponds to the summit of its arch. Its ampuUary end is at the outer extremity, and presents a separate opening at the upper part of the vestibule ; the opposite end, which is not dilated, joins to form a common orifice with the similar extremity of the posterior canal. Fig. 501.—Interior of the Osseous Labyrinth of the Left Side. (Modified from Soemmerring. Enlarged.) -Superior semicircular canal Fovea hemielliptica Fovea hemisplierica Lamina spiralis Scala tympani of the cochlea Posterior semicircular canal External semicircular canal Orifice common to the superior and posterior semicircular canals Orifice of the vestibular aqueduct Orifice of the cochlear aqueduct The posterior semicircular canal is the longest. Its dilated end is placed at the loAver and back part of the vestibule ; its non-dilated extremity joins the superior canal. It is placed nearly vertically, and is directed backwards. The external semicircular canal curves horizontally outwards, and presents two openings in the upper and back part of the vestibular cavity. The Cochlea has a rough resemblance to a snail's shell, and coils itself almost horizontally immediately in front of the vestibule. Its base corresponds to the lower and front part of the fundus of the internal auditory meatus, and is there Fig. 502.—Interior of the Osseous Cochlea. (Enlarged.) Scala vestibuli Scala tympani Lamina spiralis marked by the series of minute holes which form the tractus spiralis foraminu- ilentus, whilst its apex is directed forwards and outwards, towards the upper and [fore part of the inner wall of the tympanum. [ The cochlea is about a quarter of an inch (6 mm.) in length, and its basal measure- [ment is nearly the same. It is composed of a central pillar, the modiolus, or columella, j around which curls for two and a half turns a spiral canal, which contains a [delicate spiral shelf or plate, the lamina spiralis. This partially divides its cavity into two portions, as it follows its windings from base to apex. Near the apex