THE TESTICLES 1063 extends into a deep depression, the digital fossa, between the testicle and epididy- [mis ; but it leaves uncovered nearly the whole of the globus minor and the internal [and posterior surfaces of the body of the epididymis, and it is in these situations that an important vascular communication is established between the gland and its coverings. The iKirietal layer, continuous with the visceral layer at the posterior and inferior parts of the testicle and at the point of reflexion from the spermatic cord, becomes loosely attached to the internal spermatic fascia by means of a prolongation of the abdominal subperitoneal tissue. Under normal conditions the two layers are in I contact, the serous fluid being secreted only in sufficient quantity to moisten the opposed surfaces. An undue increase of the amount constitutes the disease known as vaginal hydrocele. The testicle is occasionally so rotated upon its long axis that the epididymis becomes turned towards the front of the scrotum. In this case, were a hydrocele to occur, the sac would project posteriorly. The side to which a detached testicle jbelongs may be distinguished by remembering that the epididymis is attached behind, and that the digital fossa of the tunica vaginalis lies on the outer side. In order to understand the relations of the organ to adjacent structures it is necessary to learn something of the mechanism of its descent. The testicle is at jfirst an abdominal organ lying below the kidney and invested by a layer of peritoneum (mesorchium) which is firmly adherent to its surface in front and at the sides. It is moreover connected by bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, the gubernaculum Itestis, with the pillars of the external inguinal ring and with the dartos at the [bottom of the scrotum. It begins to descend in the early part of the third month jof foetal life, reaching the internal inguinal ring in the sixth month. It then passes 'obliquely through the structures of the abdominal wall, preceded by a pouch of peri- toneum and pushing before it, in succession, the subperitoneal tissue, an infundibuli- form prolongation of the fascia transversalis, a few fibres of the internal oblique (which form part of the cremaster), and the intercolumnar fascia, which braces, together the pillars of the external inguinal ring. At the eighth month it appears it the external ring, and reaches the bottom of the scrotum shortly before birth. The cause of this migration is still uncertain. The theory usually adopted is. shat the descent is effected by the progressive shortening of the gubernaculum, and m accordance with this view the unstriped muscular fibres connecting the bottom bf the gland with the scrotum are regarded as the remains of the central and principal gubernacular band, while the lateral bands, ceasing to act after the testicle [aas reached the external ring, are drawn down into the scrotum and appear as pcattered groups of fibres, the internal cremaster of Henle, lying amidst the dements of the spermatic cord (fig. 626). The peritoneal sac carried with the testicle is at first continuous with the ibdominal peritoneum. In most cases the tube of communication gradually larrows, and at length, within a few days after birth, becomes entirely closed. Sometimes, however, the process of obliteration is more or less incomplete, should it fail altogether, a portion of the abdominal viscera may pass into the -unica vaginalis, and constitute the congenital variety of inguinal hernia ; or peritoneal fluid may accumulate in the testicular sac, and form a congenital lydrocele. More frequently the continuity of the tunica vaginalis with the )eritoneum is interrupted; but a slender pouch of peritoneum, the processus vaginalis, may run into the inguinal canal, and even through the external ring into :he cord, or the tunica vaginalis may be prolonged upwards upon the cord for a onsiderable distance. Should any portion of the abdominal contents enter the processus vaginalis, t may pass through the inguinal canal as a hernia, and descend into the scrotum, f at the same time the upward extension of the tunica vaginalis be present, the