327 ANCONEUS the posterior ligament of the elbow joint by a small bursa. That part of the aponeurotic continuation of the tendon which lies between the olecranon process and the back of the external condyle is by far the stronger. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the seventh and eighth cervical nerves) by means of the musculo-spiral, which supplies branches to the long and inner heads in the first part of its course ; and numerous other branches to the inner and outer heads while passing through the musculo- gpiral groove. Action.—To extend the elbow joint, the muscle acting as a lever of the first order, at a very great mechanical disadvantage on account of the short distance which intervenes between the olecranon process and the axis of the elbow joint; but at the same time with a great gain in speed and range of movement. Hence this muscle is the chief agent in movements of the arm in which great speed is attained, such as in throwing a stone or striking a blow. The long head has some influence as an adductor of the shoulder joint; it has also a supple- mentary ligamentous action upon that joint similar to that of the coraco-brachialis by holding the head of the humerus in close contact with the glenoid cavity. As it passes over both the shoulder and the elbow joints, the long head enables the powerful abductors of the shoulder to exert a peculiar influence upon the extension of the elbow joint. If it were merely a passive ligament, the long head would extend the elbow whenever the humerus was abducted by the deltoid muscle. As, jhowever, the long head contracts at the same time with the deltoid, we have an j apparatus by which, so to speak, a double rapidity of extension is secured for the |elbow joint. This attachment, therefore, of the long head of the triceps to the scapula is the chief cause for the rapid movements of the lower end of the forearm j which are made use of in throwing and striking. [ Acting from below, the triceps will extend the upper arm upon the forearm, as !in the use of the parallel bars, and in many other gymnastic exercises. Relations.—The long head lies behind the subscapularis, teres major, and latis- simus dorsi, in front of the teres minor, with the dorsalis scapulae vessels upon its posterior, and the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve upon its anterior border. Lower down, the posterior surface of the muscle is only separated from the integuments by the deep fascia ; in front lie the brachialis anticus, brachio- radialis (supinator longus), extensor carpi radialis longior, and coraco-brachialis, with the superior profunda vessels and musculo-spiral nerve. A small bursa inter- K^enes between the tendon and part of the olecranon process. The muscle is also in relation with the shoulder and elbow joints. Variations.—The internal head sometimes arises as high as the greater tuberosity. An additional slip is occasionally received from the capsule of the shoulder joint, the coracoid 'process, or the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. A slip of muscle is frequently separated [from the lower border of the internal head, and, passing from the inner condyle to the olecranon, bridges over the ulnar nerve. I 2. ANCONEUS The anconeus is described with the Muscles on the Back of the Foeearm ,'page 345). i j MUSCLES OF THE FOEEAEM ! The muscles of the forearm are enveloped by a strong deep fascia which is con- jjinuous with that of the upper arm. It is thickest upon the posterior aspect, where [t is attached to the sides of the triangular posterior surface of the olecranon, uid to the whole of the posterior ridge of the ulna. Below the internal condyle 1