THE FEMALE BEPBODUCTIVE OBGANS 1086 borders. The superior or free border is represented by the summit of the plication i which turns around the oviduct and follows a sinuous course towards the side o j the pelvis, its outermost extremity lying external to the fimbriated extremity of th(i Fallopian tube and forming a sharp fold, the ligamentum infundibulo-pelvicum' which conveys the ovarian vessels. The internal border is attached to the sides oi the uterus and vagina, the two laminpg separating to transmit the utero-vagina \ vessels, and muscular bands, which pass from the uterus into the peritoneal fold' The inferior border is attached to the levator ani and recto-vesical fascia ; it; laminae are separated by fat-bearing cellular tissue (subperitoneal) which give;: passage to vessels and nerves and to the ureter; and the anterior layer is mucli shorter than the posterior, owing to the higher level of its point of reflexion. Th( Fig. 640.—Diagrammatic Section of the Broad Ligament, peritoneum reflected over summit of ligament FALLOPIAN TUBE POSTERIOR SURFACE URETER TUBAL BRANCH OF OVARIAN VESSELS PAROVARIUM Ovarian arterv Round ligament with funicular vessels Connective tissue and un- striped muscle (utero- pelvie band) Uterine veins Uterine artery Base of ligament external border lies against the obturator fascia, and transmits the uterine vessel and the round ligament. The structures enclosed between the two layers of the broad ligament are :- ■ (1) The ovary and its ligament, the former projecting from the posterior lamina an! invested by a modified epithelium ; the latter, composed of unstriped muscula \ fibre, passing between the side of the uterus and the inner or lower extremity of th ■ ovary. (2) The Fallopian tube, lying at the upper margin immediately beneath th \ point of continuity of the two lamina ; its outer fimbriated extremity turned bad wards and inwards to the ovary, and attached by one of the fringes to the oute, or lower end of the organ. It does not reach quite to the pelvic wall. (3) Th| round ligament, a muscular band running downwards and outwards, forming j ridge beneath the anterior lamina, and eventually passing to the internal inguin^ ring and through the inguinal canal into the labium. (4) Foetal relics : {pi) th j parovarium, a group of twelve to twenty effete tubules of the Wolffian body lyin