EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITOBUM—PEBONEUS TEBTIUS 413 sheath with the peroneus tertius. At this point it divides into four tendons, which iiverge upon the back of the foot to the bases of the four outer toes. Each tendon first gives off some strong fibres, which blend with the lateral ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, and with the periosteum along the borders of itihe first phalanx. It then forms a broad expansion covering the back of the first phalanx, and divides into three parts : the central part is inserted into the dorsal ispect of the base of the second phalanx ; and the two lateral parts pass forwards With a slight convergence upon the back of the second phalanx to be inserted into the dorsal aspect of the base of the third phalanx. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior tibial by filaments which enter the deep aspect of the muscle in its upper third. Action.—(1) To extend the first phalanges of the four outer toes. It has some linfluence upon the second and third phalanges, but the distal part of its tendon is acted upon chiefly by the short muscles in the sole of the foot, which are attached to the border of the expansion upon the firsc phalanx. When the muscle jsontracts to its fullest amount the first phalanges are extended, while the second land third phalanges are somewhat flexed by the long and short flexors. (2) To flex the ankle joint. (3) Slightly to abduct and evert the front part of the foot. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia of the leg and the anterior annular ligaments ; on its inner side, the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius hallucis, the janterior tibial vessels and nerve with their continuations in the foot. Externally, jthe intermuscular septum which separates it from the peroneus longus and brevis, Ithe musculo-cutaneous nerve, and, lower down, the peroneus tertius. Behind, the fibula and interosseous membrane with the anterior tibial nerve above; below, the ankle-joint, tarsal and metatarsal bones, and the extensor brevis digitorum. Variations.—^The muscle may be divided nearly up to its origin. It may give off slips |fco the extensor proprius hallucis, extensor brevis digitorum, or one of the interossei. Sometimes also it has an insertion into some of the metatarsal bones. 4. PERONEUS TERTIUS The peroneus tertius—named from Trepovr], the fibula, and called tertius because it is the third of the muscles which pass from the fibula to the metatarsus—is a small triangular sheet which is closely blended with the preceding muscle. Origin.—(1) The lower fourth of the anterior (or extensor) surface of the fibula ; (2) the front of the interosseous membrane for an inch or two above the ankle jjoint; (3) the external intermuscular septum and the deep fascia of the leg. Insertion.—The upper part of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Structure.—^Arising fleshy, the muscular fibres pass downwards and inwards in penniform fashion to a tendon which appears on the inner border of its anterior surface. It becomes free from fleshy fibres at the level of the ankle joint, and after passing beneath the upper part of the anterior annular ligament, is included with [the extensor longus digitorum in a special synovial sheath beneath the lower part [of the ligament, and finally diverges from it'to be inserted into the inner part of the upper surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Nerve-supply.—Unlike the other peronei, which are supplied by the musculo- cutaneous nerve, it receives filaments from the anterior tibial which enter the inner and deep aspect of the muscle in the upper part of its course. Action.—(1) To flex the ankle joint; (2) to abduct the anterior part of the foot; (3) slightly to elevate the outer border of the foot and so to produce eversion of the sole. Relations.—Superficially, the anterior annular ligament and branches of the