THOBACIC AOBTA 588 (e) The lateral cutaneous branches run with the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves to the skin. (/) The mammary glandular branches are given off from the intercostal arteries in the third, fourth, and fifth intercostal spaces, and supply the mammary gland. They are of large size during lactation, and generally require a ligature in the removal of the breast. (2) The subcostal artery, or the twelfth dorsal as it is sometimes called, follows the same course as the intercostals as far as the head of the twelfth rib. It then passes in company with the twelfth dorsal nerve along the lower border of the twelfth rib, lying in front of the quadratus lumborum muscle, behind the fascia transversalis. Crossing in front of it is the thickened upper bridge-like margin of Fig. 362.—Scheme of Intercostal Artery. Longissimus dorsi Internal division of muscular branch Semispinalis dorsi and multifldus spinse Posterior spinal arteries Retroneural branch Medullary branch Preneural branch SPINAL CORD Anterior spinal artery External division of muscular branch Ilio-costalis Spinal branch Intercostal artery Vena azygos minor Vena azygos major THORACIC DUCT ESOPHAGUS Anterior intercostal Internal mammary artery- Anterior perforating branch of internal mammary artery Dorsal branch SYMPATHETIC Lower branch of aortic intercostal Upper branch of aortic intercostal Lateral cutaneous branch Lower branch of anterior intercostal Mammary glandular branch Upper branch of anterior intercostal this fascia, which stretches across the quadratus and gives origin to some of the fibres of the diaphragm, and is known as the ligamentum arcuatum externum. The subcostal artery anastomoses with the lumbar arteries and external circumflex iliac artery. At the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum it passes between the abdominal muscles, and is distributed in a manner similar to that of the lumbar arteries. (3) The diaphragmatic branches are small twigs coming off from the thoracic aorta immediately above the diaphragm. They are distributed to the vertebral portion of the diaphragm on its upper surface. (4) The aberrans artery is a small twig which, arising from the thoracic aorta near the right bronchial artery, passes upwards and to the right behind the