1130 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY scapula, along the inner side of the arm (along the intercosto-humeral nerve, i scapula, while the arms are at the sides, the line would cut the sternum in froni between the fourth and fifth ribs, the fifth rib at the nipple line, and the ninth rit at the vertebral column ' (Treves). Those most frequently broken are the sixth seventh, and eighth. The way in which the ribs are embedded in the soft parts' and the fact that the fragments are often held in place by the periosteum, account;; for the difficulty which is often met with in detecting crepitus. The intercosta^ spaces are wider in front than behind. The three upper are the widest of all. Structures passing through the upper aperture of the thorax.—If a horizonta section is made passing through the manubrium sterni, upper border of the first rib and upper part of the first thoracic vertebra, the following structures are met with ' (1) In the middle line. Sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, with their sheathi of deep cervical fascia, cellular tissue in which are the remains of the thyroid gland the inferior thyroid veins, the trachea and tracheal fascia, the oesophagus and longu colli muscles. Between the trachea and oesophagus are the recurrent laryngea nerves. (2) On each side. The apex of the lung, covered by pleura, rises abou an inch and a half above the first rib. Between it and the trachea and oesophagu, lie the following: the internal mammary artery, the phrenic nerve; on the righ side, the innominate vein and artery, with the vagus between the two, the cardiai| nerves, and the right lymphatic duct. On the left side are the common carotid anc Fig. 683.—Section of the Sixth Left Intercostal Space, at the Junction of THE Anterior and Posterior Thirds. (Tillanx.) INTERC Intercostal vein. I?itercostal nrterii -#-1 2C0STAL NERVk -Jtf Serratus magnus-' jT | Its aponeurosis 1--- Aponeurosis eoveriner external intercostal muscle External intercostal muscle -Aponeurosis covering the internal intercostal muscle "Internal intercostal muscle subclavian arteries, with the left vagus between them, the cardiac nerves, and th thoracic duct. Farthest back and on each side are the trunk of the sympathetic, thi superior intercostal artery, and the last thoracic nerve. The mamma.—This lies over the sheath of the pectoralis major, between thi third and fifth, sixth, or seventh ribs in the female. In the male the nipple i placed in the fourth space, nearly an inch outside the cartilages of the fourth am fifth ribs. On the nipple itself open the fifteen or twenty ducts which dilate beneatl it, and then diverge and break up for the supply of the lobules. The skin over th areola is very adherent, pigmented, and fatless. Here also are groups of littl swellings corresponding to some twenty large sebaceous follicles. The skin ove the breast is freely movable, and united to the fascia which encases the orgaiii and thus to the interlobular connective tissue, by bands of the same structure- the ligamenta suspensoria. Under the breast, and giving it its mobility, is i cellulo-fatty layer, the seat of submammary abscess. The nerves Avhich suppb the breast are the anterior cutaneous branches of the second, third, fourth and fifth intercostal nerves, and the lateral branches of the last three. Th connection of these trunks serves to explain the diffusion of the pain oftei observed in painful affections of the breast. Thus pain may be referred t the side of the chest and back (along the above intercostal trunks), over th