434 THE MUSCLES passes transversely forwards, diverging slightly to its insertion. The change from fleshy to aponeurotic fibres is in a curved line, the upper and lower extremities of which approach the linea alba more closely than in the central part of the muscle. In the upper part the fleshy fibres are overlapped in front by the rectus muscle; and at the lower border of the muscle where it terminates in a small arch, passing over the spermatic cord or round ligament, the fleshy fibres cease just above the middle of Poupart's ligament. The muscles of the two sides, joined as they are by the central aponeurosis, may be looked upon as a single muscle with a central aponeurosis, like the diaphragm; and a similar relation may be considered to hold good between the internal oblique muscle of one side and the external oblique of the other, each pair forming a double-bellied muscle joined by a median aponeurosis. In its upper three-fourths the anterior aponeurosis is closely blended with the posterior division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle, and forms the hinder part of the sheath of the rectus in this region. In the lower fourth the anterior aponeurosis is blended with the undivided aponeurosis of the internal! oblique, and passes in front of the rectus muscle and the pyramidalis. | The posterior aponeurosis, or lumbar fascia, consists of strong transverse fibres. | The middle layer is the strongest, and has in its substance fibrous bands passing outwards from the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and! continuing the series of the ribs connected with the dorsal transverse processes. Between this middle layer and the anterior layer which springs from the front of| the tips of the transverse processes is placed the quadratus lumborum; and a|. thickening of this anterior layer passing from the tips of the transverse processesj i of the first and second lumbar vertebrae to the lowest rib, called the ligamentum\ arcuatum externum, gives origin to a part of the diaphragm. Between the middlej |iic and posterior layers is placed the erector spinae muscle. This posterior layer; \k blends with the vertebral aponeurosis, and gives origin to the latissimus dorsi, the I it serratus posticus inferior, and other muscles. j :isi Nerve-supply.—The anterior primary branches of the lower thoracic nerves and| m the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal branches of the first nerve of the lumbar plexus, j 9 The nerves as they run forward between this muscle and the obliquus internum j id distribute filaments to its outer surface. Iti Action.—The muscles of the two sides with their intervening aponeuroses forn: a strong girth round the abdominal viscera, and by their contraction compress j most powerfully the contents of the abdomen. i It will thus be seen that the three layers of the transverse muscles in th(j abdominal wall cross one another at various angles, one pair passing transversel}! forwards, a second forwards and upwards, and a third forwards and down] iji, wards. The following objects are gained by this arrangement : (1) the wal^ 1^ is rendered much stronger, and the probability of a hernial protrusion of any portioij of the viscera between the separated fibres of the muscles is diminished ; (2) con j traction of the wall is permitted in every direction ; (3) greater approximation of thi movable boundaries of the abdominal wall is obtained by means of the obliquit;! of the muscles which affect this movement. For example, two parallel bones caij have the distance between them diminished only by one half, supposing that th muscular fibres producing this movement run perpendicularly from one bone to th | other ; but if the fibres cross one another obliquely, like those of the external an i internal oblique muscles, in passing from the crest of the ilium to the lower ribs, \ much more complete approximation of the bones is effected. i Relations.—Superficially, the obliquus internus, the cartilages of the low€j ribs, some small vessels, and the lower intercostal nerves ; above, it is continuom with the lower border of the triangularis sterni ; below, it lies above the spermati j cord or round ligament, and its conjoined tendon lies for a short distance beneat!