863 SYMPATHETIC NEBVES It also furnishes one or two articular filaments to the ankle joint, and gives off a cutaneous branch, the internal calcanean. (1) The internal calcanean or calcaneo-plantar cutaneous branch arises from i the posterior tibial nerve a little above the level of the inner malleolus, and passes under cover of the internal annular ligament, where it divides into several branches. These branches pierce the internal annular ligament, accompanying the branches of the internal calcanean artery, and are distributed to the thick fascia and integu- ment which covers the heel and adjacent part of the sole. (2) The internal plantar nerve is the larger of the two terminal branches of the posterior tibial, and corresponds in its distribution to the median nerve in the hand. It runs forwards in the interval between the abductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitorum ; gives off branches to supply both these muscles, and a number of cuta- j neous twigs which appear in the interval between the middle and internal parta of ! the plantar fascia. Near the level of the tarso-metatarsal articulation it terminates by dividing into four digital branches. The first dig^ital branch gives off a branch to supply the flexor brevis hallucis, and then runs along the inner side of the great I toe as far as the extremity of that digit. The second branch gives oft' a twig to supply the first or innermost lumbrical muscle, and then divides into two collateral ' branches which supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toes. The third branch divides in a similar manner to supply the contiguous sides of the second and third toes. The fourth branch communicates with the superficial division of the external plantar, and divides to supply the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes. (3) The external plantar nerve shows many points of resemblance to the dis- tribution of the ulnar nerve in the hand. From its origin at the termination of the I posterior tibial nerve, it is directed outwards and forwards between the flexor brevis digitorum and the flexor accessorius. In this part of its course it supplies the j accessorius and the abductor minimi digiti. It is then directed forwards in the I interval between the last-named muscle and the flexor brevis digitorum, and termi- nates at the level of the tarso-metatarsal articulations by dividing into a superficial and a deep division. Previous to its division it gives off several cutaneous twigs, which appear in the interval between the middle and external divisions of the plantar fascia. The superficial division divides into two digital nerves, an external and an internal. The internal branch supplies the interosseous muscles which occupy the fourth interosseous space, and, having communicated with the internal plantar, divides into two collateral branches which supply the contiguous sides of j the third and fourth toes. The external branch supplies the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and is then directed along the outer border of the little toe to terminate at the extremity of that digit. The deep division of the external plantar nerve runs inwards and forwards on the dorsal or deep surface of the flexor tendons, and ramifies in the interval between these tendons and the interosseous muscles. It supplies the three outer lumbrical muscles, the interosseous muscles occupying the j three inner interosseous spaces, the transversus pedis, and the adductor hallucis. SYMPATHETIC NERVES The sympathetic nerves were formerly supposed to be a separate system, linked, it is true, to the cerebro-spinal system by numerous communications, yet possessing, in their ganglia, a certain governing power independent of the cerebro-spinal axis. It is now very generally admitted that the sympathetic nerves are merely the