OF VEBTEBBAL COLUMN 207 The interspinous ligaments (fig. 205) are thin membranous structures which ixtend between the spines, and are connected with the hgamenta subflava in front, imd the supraspinous hgament behind. The fibres pass obhquely from the root )f one spine to the tip of the next; they thus decussate. They are best marked in he lumbar region, and are replaced by the well-developed intersjnnales muscles in ;he cervical region. The intertransverse ligaments are barely worth the name; in the thoracic •egion they form small rounded bundles, and in the lumbar they are thin mem- branous bands, quite incapable of action as bonds of union. They consist of fibres Dassing between the apices of the transverse processes. In the cervical region ihey are replaced by the iiitertransversales muscles. The arterial supply for the column comes from twigs of the vertebral, ascending pharyngeal, ascending cervical, superior and aortic intercostals, lumbar, ilio-lumbar, md lateral sacral. Fig. 205.—The Interspinous and Supraspinous Ligaments in the Lumbar Eegion. [ I The nerve-supply comes from the spinal nerves of each region. Movements.—The spinal column is so formed of a number of bones and inter- vertebral discs as to serve many purposes. It is the axis of the skeleton; upon 1 it the skull is supported ; and with it the cavities of the trunk, and the limbs are connected. As a fixed column it is capable of bearing great weight; and, [through the elastic intervertebral substances, of resisting and breaking the trans- mission of shocks. Moreover, it is flexible, and therefore capable of movement. Now, the range of movements of the column as a whole is very considerable; but the movements between any two vertebrje are slight, so that motions of the spine may take place without any change in the shape of the column, and without any marked disturbance in the relative positions of the vertebrae. It is about the pulpy ipart of the intervertebral discs, which form a central elastic pivot or ball, upon which the middle of the vertebrae rest, that these movements take place. The amount of motion is everywhere limited by the common vertebral The supraspinous ligament The interspinous ligament; I 1