275 THE KNEE JOINT irough the adductor magnus on to the popliteal artery, which enters the joint irough the posterior ligament. The movements which occur at the knee joint are flexion and extension, with )ine slight amount of pronation and supination in the bent position. These lovements are not so simple as the corresponding ones at the elbow, for the knee i not a simple hinge joint, and pronation and supination, instead of occurring etween the tibia and fibula, as between the radius and ulna, are movements of the bia with the fibula upon the condyles of the femur. The knee differs from a true hinge joint, like the elbow or ankle, in the following articulars :— 1. The points of contact of the femur with the tibia are constantly changing, 'bus, in the flexed position, the hinder part of the articular surface of the tibia is 1 contact with the rounded back part of the condyles ; in the semiflexed position Fig. 251.—Section of Knee, showing Crucials in Extension. Anterior crucial SPINE OF TIBIA Transverse ligament Slip from external fibro- cartilage to femur (liga- ment of V/risberg) Posterior crucial ligament External semilunar cartilage Coronary Ligament Antero-superior tibio-fibular ligament he middle parts of the tibial facets articulate with the anterior rounded part of the ! ondyles; while in the fully extended position the anterior and middle parts of the ibial facets are in contact with the flattened anterior portion of the condyles. So yith the patella : in extreme flexion the inner articular facet rests on the outer part of the internal condyle of the femur ; in flexion the upper pair of facets rest •n the lower part of the trochlear surface of the femur ; in mid-flexion the middle pair rest on the middle of the trochlear surface ; while in extension the lower pair of 'acets on the patella rest on the upper portion of the trochlear surface of the femur. This difference may be described as the shifting of the points of contact of the firticular surface. 2. It difi:ers from a true hinge in that, in passing from a state of extension to )ne of flexion, the tibia does not revolve round a single transverse axis drawn hrough the lower end of the femur, as the ulna does round the lower end of the T 2