EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITOBUM ' 341 if I 2. EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS LONGIOR The extensor carpi radialis longior—named from its action, position, and length "n comparison with its fellow extensor—is a narrow fusiform sheet. Origin.—(1) The lower third of the external condylar ridge ; (2) the front of the "xternal intermuscular septum; (3) the front of the common tendon by which the xtensors at the back of the forearm arise from the external condyle. Insertion.—The back of the base of the second metacarpal bone near its dial border. Structure.—Arising by fleshy fibres, this muscle has a somewhat penni- form arrangement. Its tendon is first seen near the outer border on the deep surface of the muscle, and becomes free at the junction of the middle and upper thirds of the forearm. It lies upon and in close association with the tendon of the short extensor, and passes through the second compartment in the posterior annular ligament to its insertion upon the metacarpal bone. Its surfaces, like those of the preceding muscle, are at first directed outwards and inwards, and afterwards forwards and backwards. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the sixth cervical nerve), by a branch from the musculo-spiral nerve which enters the muscle at the upper part of its deep surface. Action.-—^(1) To extend the wrist; including under this appellation the carpo- metacarpal, intercarpal, and radio-carpal joints. It is also a slight abductor of these joints. When the fingers have to be bent by the long flexors, it steadies the carpus so as to limit the action of the flexors to the phalanges. (2) It has also some influence in flexion of the elbow joint. Relations.—In the arm, it lies between the brachialis anticus and the triceps, and it is covered by the brachio-radialis. In the forearm, it overlies the short radial extensor and wrist joint, while it lies beneath the brachio-radialis and the _extensors of the thumb. Variations.—The extensor carpi radialis longior may be united with the brevior. It may give tendinous slips to the bases of the first or third metacarpal bones, or to the trapezium; or a slip may join the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, or some of the interossei. 3. EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREVIOR The extensor carpi radialis brevior—named for similar reasons to those which give its name to the preceding muscle—is also flat and fusiform. Origin.—(1) The common tendon attached to the external condyle; (2) the intermuscular septa which separate it from the origins of the adjacent muscles ; and (3) the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint. Insertion.—The back of the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones near the lower part of their line of contact. Structure.—This muscle is thicker than the preceding, and its fibres have a more decidedly penniform arrangement, as they pass from their long fibrous origin obhquely downwards and forwards to the tendon which appears first upon the inner border of the anterior aspect of the muscle about the middle, and is free at the junction of the lower and middle thirds of the forearm. It passes through the second compartment of the posterior annular ligament with the tendon of the pre- ceding muscle. The tendons of this and the preceding muscle are invested in a synovial sheath as they pass through the posterior annular ligament, and a small bursa lies beneath each of them close to their insertions.