645 INTEBCOSTALS of the rib. The dorsal tributaries return the blood from the muscles of the back, and receive communicating branches from the dorsal spinal plexus and from the spinal veins through the intervertebral foramina. The intercostal veins also receive small tributaries from the bodies of the vertebrae. The termination of the inter- costal veins is different on the two sides, and is seldom alike in any two consecutive subjects. On the right side.—The first intercostal vein (the upper right superior inter- costal vein) ascends with the superior intercostal artery, a branch of the subclavian, to end either in the vertebral vein just before the latter joins the right innominate vein, or in the right innominate direct. The second intercostal vein either joins with the first, and opens with it as a common trunk into the vertebral or innominate vein, or it joins with the third or with the third and fourth to open into the vena azygos major as the latter is arching over the root of the right lung. This vein is kiown as the lower right superior intercostal vein. The fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh right intercostal veins join the vena azygos major. The upper of these have well-marked valves where they join the azygos vein. In the lower veins these valves are imperfect. All the intercostal veins are provided with valves in their course between the muscles. On the left side the first intercostal vein also follows the superior intercostal artery from the subclavian, and ascends to join the left vertebral or left innominate vein, and is known as the upper left superior intercostal vein. The second inter- costal vein either joins the first, and opens with it as a common trunk into the left vertebral or left innominate vein, or joins the third and fourth, as described below, to form the lower left superior intercostal vein. The third and fourth, and some- times the second, intercostal veins unite to form a single trunk, the lower left superior intercostal vein, which passes upwards across the arch of the aorta, and opens into the left innominate vein. This vein usually communicates at its lower end with the third azygos vein, but at times crosses the spine, and enters directly the vena azygos major. A fibrous cord can frequently be traced from it through the vestigial fold of the pericardium to the oblique vein of Marshall (page 642). The fifth and sixth, and sometimes the seventh, intercostal veins either end in the third azygos vein, or, if this is absent, cross the spine, and open directly into the vena azygos major. The eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh, and sometimes the seventh, intercostal veins join the vena azygos minor. The subcostal vein, or twelfth thoracic vein, lies beneath the last rib, and accom- panies the twelfth dorsal or subcostal artery. It receives tributaries corresponding to the branches of the subcostal artery, and opens on the right side into the vena azygos major, and on the left side into the vena azygos minor. The bronchial veins correspond to the bronchial arteries, but do not return the whole of the blood carried to the lungs by those vessels—that part which is distri- buted to the smaller bronchial tubes and the alveola being brought back by the pulmonary veins. The bronchial veins issue from the lung substance behind the structures forming the root of the lung. The right vein generally joins the vena azygos major just before the latter vein enters the superior vena cava. The left vein opens into the lower left superior intercostal vein, or into the upper left azygos vein. The bronchial veins at the root of the lung receive small tributaries from the bronchial glands, from the trachea, and from the posterior mediastinum. The oesophageal veins from the thoracic portion of the oesophagus end in part in the vena azygos major, and in part in the vena azygos minor.