503 THE INNOMINATE ABTEBY THE LEFT COEONAKY ARTERY The left coronary artery (figs. 321, 326), a little larger than the right, arises from the left anterior sinus of Valsalva, and, passing forwards and to the left between the pulmonary artery and left auricular appendix, courses round the heart in the left auriculo-ventricular groove to anastomose with the transverse branch of the right coronary artery. It gives off the following branches: (a) A left auricular branch, which supplies the left auricle, the pulmonary artery, and the commence- ment of the aorta, (b) A large anterior interventricular branch, which is larger than the continuation of the vessel between the auricle and ventricle, and is regarded by some as the main trunk of the left coronary artery. It courses down- wards in the anterior interventricular groove to the apex of the heart, where it forms a slight anastomosis with the posterior interventricular branch of the right vessel (fig. 324). It supplies both ventricles and the interventricular septum, (c) A left marginal branch, which runs down the left margin of the heart, supplying branches to the walls of the ventricle, (d) The terminal branch, the continuation [of the vessel, anastomoses with the transverse branch of the right coronary artery. I Variations in the Coronary Arteries \ {a) They may arise as a common trunk. (6) They may both arise from the same jsinus of Valsalva, (c) The interventricular and terminal branches of tlie left coronary may arise separately from the sinus of Valsalva, {d) One coronary artery may be larger than usual; the other vessel is tlien correspondingly small, {e) An extra coronary artery imay arise from tlie pulmonary artery, II. From the transverse part of the aortic arch are given off the innominate, the ileft common carotid, and the left subclavian arteries. The innominate and left carotid arise close together—indeed, so close that, when seen from the interior of the aorta, the orifices appear merely separated by a thin septum. The left subclavian arises a little less close to the left carotid. THE INNOMINATE ARTERY The innominate or bracliio-cephalic artery (fig. 321), the largest branch of the irch of the aorta, extends from near the commencement of the transverse portion, ipwards and a little forwards and to the right, as high as the upper limit of the ight sterno-clavicular joint where it bifurcates into the right common carotid and ight subclavian arteries. It lies obhquely in front of the trachea, and measures i'rom an inch and a half to two inches in length (about 4 cm.). Relations.—In front of the artery (fig. 327) are the manubrium, the origins )f the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the right sterno-clavicular joint md the remains of the thymus gland. The left innominate vein crosses the root )f the vessel, and the inferior thyroid veins descend obhquely over it to end in ihe left innominate vein. The inferior cervical cardiac branches of the right Dneumogastric pass in front of it on their way to the deep cardiac plexus. ^ Behind, it hes on the trachea, crossing that tube obliquely from left to right, and joming into contact above with the right pleura. To the right side are the right innominate vein, the right pneumogastric nerve, md the pleura. ' To the left side are the left common carotid, the remains of the thymus gland, ;he inferior thyroid veins ; and higher, the trachea.