822 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM The nerves to the hyo-glossus are several twigs which are supplied to the muscle as the hypoglossal nerve crosses it. The nerves to the genio-hyo-glossus arise under cover of the mylo-hyoid in common with the terminal branches to the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. They communicate freely with branches of the lingual, forming long loops which lie on the hyo-giossus muscle. From these loops twigs pass into the genio-hyo-glossus and into the muscular substance of the tongue. — j! SPINAL NERVES The spinal nerves spring from the spinal cord by four long series of roots, namely, an anterior and a posterior series on each side of the cord. These origins correspond with the superficial origins of the cranial nerves, being the points at which the nerve-fibres emerge from the cerebro-spinal axis. Like the cranial nerves, the spinal nerves have also a deep origin. This is situated in the anterior and posterior horns of the grey crescents and has been already described (page 778). The spinal nerves also resemble the cranial nerves, inasmuch as this ' deep' origin is only a preliminary interruption in nerve-cells or in plexuses in the grey matter, and from the deep origin tracts of fibres pass upwards to establish a connection with the cerebral cortex. They differ from the cranial nerves inasmuch as they arise from the spinal cord instead of from the encephalon, in their mode of origin by an anterior motor and posterior sensory root, and by the development, on each of the posterior roots, of a ganglion (the spinal ganglion). Certain of the cranial nerves resemble the spinal nerves in the two latter respects ; for example, the vagus arises from the large-celled (motor nucleus), a derivative of the anterior horn, and from the small-celled (sensory nucleus) derived from the basal part of the posterior horn ; the roots from these two sources have, however, united before the nerve has reached the surface of the medulla. The ganglion of the root of the vagus and the ganglion on the sensory root of the trigeminal (Gasserian ganglion) are clearly homologous to the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The hypoglossal nerve is, in rare cases, joined by a small posterior root on which a ganglion is developed, and, on the other hand, cases are recorded in which the posterior root of the first spinal nerve was devoid of a ganglion. The anterior roots stand out in marked contrast to the posterior roots in regard to their function, being motor, whereas the posterior roots are sensory. They also differ from the posterior roots in several anatomical points. The anterior roots (with the single exception of the first) are smaller than the posterior ; they arise by four to six fasciculi, and their origins do not form a linear series, but map out a longitudinal area of one to two millimetres in breadth on the surface of the cord. The posterior roots are larger than the anterior, they arise by six to eight fasciculi, are placed in a strictly linear series, and, as each root is traversing the corresponding intervertebral foramen, it enters into a spinal ganglion, a structure with which the motor root has no connection whatever. The posterior roots are from one and a half to three times as large as the anterior, the ratio being— 1 to 1*5 in the thoracic nerves. 1 to 2 in the lumbar nerves. 1 to 3 in the cervical nerves. Course and direction.—From their superficial origin, both anterior and posterior roots proceed towards the intervertebral foramina, and unite near the outer limits of the foramina into single trunks. The ganglia on the posterior roots are placed, in the case of the majority of the nerves, within the foramina immediately internal to the point of junction of the two roots. The ganglia of the first and second