728 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM The convolutions on the convex surface are three in number, and are imper- fectly marked off from one another by the fissures above described. They pass from before backwards and become confluent at the occipital pole. The superior occipital convolution is placed between the superior occipital fissure and the margin of the great longitudinal fissure. It is continuous with the cuneus on the inner surface of the hemisphere, and is joined in front by the first annectant gyrus to the superior parietal lobule. The middle occipital convolution is situated between the superior and middle occipital fissures, and is united in front to the angular gyrus by the second and third annectant gyri. The inferior occipital convolution occupies the interval between the middle and inferior occipital fissures, and may be connected to the middle temporal convo- lution by a fourth annectant gyrus. The annectant gyri are four small sagittally-directed convolutions which cross the boundary line which separates the occipital from the parietal and temporal lobes. They are nmnbered from within outwards. The first and second of these are the most constant and are placed one on each side of the ramus occipitalis of the intraparietal fissure. The third and fourth are not infrequently absent as they may be cut through by the fissure, the sulcus occipitalis anterior. The sulcus occipitalis anterior is an inconstant fissure which is parallel to, and placed a little in front of, the anterior bomidary of the occipital lobe on the convex sm-face of the hemisphere. The TEMPORAL LOBE (temporo-sphenoidal lobe) is sharply marked off in front by the Sylvian fissure, but, as we have already seen, it passes behind without any surface line of demarcation into the parietal and occipital lobes. Its anterior extremity forms a bold prominence directed downwards and forwards (the temporal pole of Broca). It has three surfaces : an external, forming part of the general convexity of the hemisphere; an inferior, which rests on the great wing of the sphenoid and the adjacent part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and a superior, which is situated within the Sylvian fissure and can be displayed by pulling up the operculum. The boundaries of the temporal lobe have been already indicated in the description of the other lobes, but may be recapitulated as follows. It is bomided behind by the lower part of the line drawn from the external parieto-occipital fissure to the praeoccipital notch. Above, it is limited by the horizontal part of the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure and by a line continuing the horizontal direction backwards to meet the posterior boundary. Its inferior surface may be marked off from the occipital lobe by a line drawn from the prgeoccipital notch to the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus. Three fissures traverse the temporal lobe in a direction parallel to its long axis. The first of these, the superior temporal or parallel fissure, is one of the most constant of the incomplete fissures of the cerebrum. The other two, termed middle and inferior temporal, seldom appear as well-marked sulci, being as a rule broken up by fissures and gyri crossing at right angles to their direction. The collateral fissure is approximately parallel to the three temporal sulci; it marks ofi' the temporal from the falciform lobe. The parallel fissure commences a short distance behind the apex of the lobe, and takes a course parallel to the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius. Its upturned extremity ends in the parietal lobe, where it is embraced by the angular gyrus. The middle temporal fissure runs in the same general direction as the parallel fissure but is placed at a lower level. It may communicate behind with the sulcus occipitalis anterior. The inferior temporal fissure is placed on the under surface near the lateral margin of the hemisphere. It is in a line with the inferior occipital fissure.