72 THE SKELETON mentioned. It forms the inner plate of the mandible from near the symphysis to the mandibular foramen. The mandibular spine represents the posterior extremity of the splenial. Its line of junction with the dentary is indicated in the adult bone by the mylo-hyoid groove. At birth the mandible is represented by two nearly horizontal troughs of bone lodging unerupted teeth. Each half is joined at the symphysis by fibrous tissue. The upper edge of the symphysis and the condyles are nearly on a level. The mandibular nerve lies in a shallov/ groove between the dentary and splenial plates. During the first year the two halves ankylose, union taking place from below upwards, but the ankylosis is not complete until the second year. After the first dentition, the ramus forms with the body of the mandible an angle of about 140°, and the mental foramen is situated midway between the upper and lower borders of the bone opposite the second milk-molar. In the adult, the angle formed by the ramus and body is nearly a right angle, and the mental foramen is opposite the second bicuspid, so that its relative position remains unaltered after the first dentition. In old age, after the fall of the teeth, the alveolar margin is absorbed, the angle formed by the ramus and body becomes obtuse, and the mental foramen approaches to the alveolar margin. In a young and vigorous adult the mandible is, with the exception of the petrosal, the densest bone in the skeleton, and resists decay longest; in old age it becomes exceedingly porous, and often so soft that it may be broken easily. THE HYOID, THE STYLOID PEOCESS, AND THE EAR BONES The hyoid or lingual bone consists of a body and four processes. The body (basi-hyal) forms the central portion of the bone ; it is somewhat oblong in shape. Its anterior aspect is convex and divided by a longitudinal ridge into a superior and an inferior portion. Frequently it presents a median vertical ridge, and at the point where the horizontal and vertical ridges intersect, a tubercle, sometimes measuring four millimetres in length, is formed. The whole of the anterior surface is crowded with the origin and insertions of muscles. The posterior surface is deeply concave, and frequently presents several small depressions near the middle line which lodge accessory thyroid bodies. The inferior border is free, the superior gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid membrane. Between this membrane and the concavity of the hyoid a large bursa is occasionally found. The lateral borders are in relation with the greater cornua, but remain separated from them until late.in life. Fig. 81.—The Hyoid.