1162 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY A. Oblique, external inguinal hernia.—This obtains its coverings asj follows :— ; (1) At the internal ring, or inlet, it obtains three:—(a) Peritoneum ;| (b) extra-peritoneal fat; (c) infundibuliform fascia, or the layer of transversalisi fascia prolonged at this spot along the cord. (2) In the canal it obtains one. As it emerges beneath the lower border of the internal oblique, it gets some fibres from the cremaster. (3) At the external ring, or outlet, the hernia obtains three, viz.: {a) Inter-, columnar fascia ; (b) superficial fascia ; and (c) skin. B. Direct or internal inguinal hernia.—This does not come through the internal ring, but, making its way through the posterior wall of the lower third of the canal—i.e. the conjoined tendon, either pushing this forward or splitting it—; gets its coverings only from structures in relation to this part of the canal. They are—(1) Peritoneum; (2) extra-peritoneal fat; (3) transversalis fascia (not thej Fig. 707.—Dissection of the Lower Part of the Abdominal Wall from within, ■ THE Peritoneum having been removed. (Wood.) | External iliac artery specialised part at the internal ring or infundibuliform fascia); (4) conjoin tendon of internal oblique and transversalis. At the outlet of the external ring th coverings obtained are the same as in the oblique hernia, viz. (5) intercolumn" fascia ; (6) superficial fascia ; (7) skin. Hitherto the two forms of inguinal hernia have been considered from the supe ficial aspect, that in which they are met with in practice. The inguinal regio should also be studied as to the posterior aspect of its so-called rings and cana as these have to bear the early stress of a commencing hernia. It is against thi aspect that a piece of omentum or intestine is constantly and insidiously pressin and endeavouring to make its way out. Furthermore, when either of the abo constituents of hernia have made their way a little farther, and got out into th-. internal ring or into the canal, the patient is no longer sound.