372 THE MUSCLES Insertion.—(1) The upper part of the strong aponeurosis of the fascia lata called the ilio-tibial band ; (2) the gluteal ridge of the femur which leads fron the lower border of the greater trochanter to the linea aspera ; (3) the adjacen part of the tendinous origin of the vastus externus. Structure.—Its origin is almost entirely fleshy, a few tendinous fibres onl^ being intermingled between the coarse bundles which run parallel to one anothe downwards and outwards to the aponeurosis of insertion. The upper half of thi aponeurosis passes over the outer surface of the great trochanter to be attachei to the upper part of the ilio-tibial band. Lower down the insertion consists o, short tendinous fibres, which are not only attached to the rough process of thj bone but to the adjacent tendon of the vastus externus, while the more superficia fibres still pass on to be attached to the fascia lata. The whole muscle forms parallelogram of which the upper and lower parallel sides are formed by the origi] and insertion which run in oblique lines downwards and inwards, while the oute and inner borders of the muscle running downwards and outwards form the othe two sides of the parallelogram. This muscle is especially remarkable for the larg size of the fasciculi in which its fleshy fibres are arranged, and which give th muscle its peculiarly coarse appearance. 1 There are tAvo well-marked bursas in connection with the deep surface of thi^ muscle : the one covering the tuberosity of the ischium, which is partly covered b; the muscle and partly projects from the middle of its lower border in such a wa| that when the thigh is extended it intervenes between the muscle and the prcj minence of bone, and when the thigh is flexed it lies between the tuberosity (' the ischium and the subcutaneous fat. The second is a large, often multiloculg cavity which separates the outer surface of the great trochanter from the ap( neurosis of insertion of the upper part of the muscle. A small bursa is als; occasionally found between the lower part of the muscle and the tendon of ttj vastus externus. Nerve-supply.—^Fromthe sacral plexus (through the fifth lumbar and the firj and second sacral nerves), by means of the inferior gluteal branches of the sma! sciatic nerve which enter the deep surface of the muscle close to its inferior ar internal border. Action.—To extend the hip joint. The upper part of the muscle, passing ovj the great trochanter, is placed at a considerable distance from the axis of movemeij which passes through the centre of the hip joint. A similar object is obtained Ij the insertion of the lower fibres of the muscle at some distance down the ba(j of the femur. The whole muscle therefore is able to act as an extensor of tl hip joint with much less mechanical disadvantage than is usual in the bod The gluteus maximus is not used in the movements of extension which requij but little muscular power, such as those which draw the thigh backwards : walking ; for this purpose the contraction of the hamstring muscles at the back the thigh is alone employed. Where, however, a greater effort is required, as ascending a hill or in running and leaping, the gluteus maximus acts with gre power. i It has some influence as an external rotator. With respect to abduction ail adduction, the action of the muscle is neutral. Acting alone, its upper fibres w assist in the former, and its lower fibres in the latter movement. By means of tl ilio-tibial band it makes tense the outer portion of the fascia lata and is able j exert some force in the extension of the knee, especially when that movement j nearly completed. Taking its fixed point from below, the gluteus maximus is powerful extensor of the pelvis and in some degree of the lower part of the spir e.g. in rising from the stooping position or where the trunk in a sitting posture j drawn forcibly backwards as in the action of rowing. The influence which it hj upon the back by means of its attachment to the lumbar aponeurosis is shown