715 MENINGES wards, and corresponding to the point where the veins of Galen enter the straight sinus. This opening transmits the crura cerebri and the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, these parts forming an isthmus connecting the masses of brain sub- stance above and below the tentorium ; the basilar artery and the third and fourth pairs of cranial nerves also pass upwards through this opening. Followed for- wards, the free border is seen to be attached to the anterior clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone. The attached border follows the lateral sinus along the occipital and parietal bones, and then corresponds to the superior petrosal sinus along the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal, and finally dips under the free border, to be attached to ihe posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone. The Falx Cerebelli is a small prominent fold, which is placed between the cerebellar hemispheres. Its attached border corresponds to the occipital sinus along the internal occipital crest. Above this it is attached for a short distance to the under surface of the tentorium. Its free border looks upwards and forwards. Fig. 400.—Coronal Section through the Great Longitudinal Fissure, SHOWING THE MENINGES. (Key and Eetzius.) SUBARACHNOID SPACE Superior loiigitudinal sinvs PACCHIONIAN BODY Dura mater (joBPCS CALLOSUM The diaphragma sellae is a small, annular, shelf-like fold of the dura mater which roofs in the pituitary fossa, leaving a small aperture in the centre, which transmits the infundibulum. The subdural space is a narrow lymph-space between the dura mater and the arachnoid. It is occupied by a small portion of the cerebro-spinal fluid, the greater part of which, however, is lodged in the meshes of the subarachnoid tissue, and in the ventricles of the brain (page 717). This space separates the arachnoid from the dura mater, except where it is crossed by the veins of the brain passing to the cranial sinuses, by the Pacchionian bodies, and by the cranial nerves at their points of exit from the skull. The ARACHNOID is a thin delicate membrane, which presents a well-defined limiting surface towards the dura mater, but on its deep or pia-matral surface passes insensibly into the subarachnoid tissue. The arachnoid does not dip into the fissures of the cerebrum and cerebellum, with the exception of those fissures which contain processes of dura mater. Thus it is carried into the great longitu- dinal fissure for a depth corresponding to the falx cerebri, and it passes for a short distance into the fissure of Sylvius around the fold of dura mater which projects from the lesser wing of the sphenoid.