963 PEBICABDIUM—HEART 7eins of the right and left sides, between Y\^hich it passes. Small pouches from the iiiain sac dip between the veins to meet the inflexions from the sides of the oblique j^inus just noticed, thus completing the serous coverings to these vessels. I Pouches can be further traced between the inferior vena cava and lower pulmo- lary vein of the right side, between the superior vena cava and upper pulmonary jQiYi of the same side, and also between the left pulmonary artery and left upper bulmonary vein. j A tubular prolongation, moreover, surrounds both the root of the pulmonary Lrtery and the aorta in common, and these are the only vessels which can be said jlo have a complete and continuous investment. The inferior vena cava receives a very imperfect covering. The vestigial fold of the pericardium is a doubling of the serous layer which passes between the left pulmonary artery above and left pulmonary vein below. (;t contains, besides some fatty and areolar tissue, the shrunken remains of the left uperior vena cava. It is connected above with the left superior intercostal vein, Nnd below with the left auricle and oblique vein of Marshall,—these veins with the coronary sinus having originally formed portions of the left upper cava. Relations.—In front are found the thymus gland or its remains, areolar tissue, he sterno-pericardiac ligaments, the triangularis sterni muscle, the internal Qammary vessels, and sternum. Laterally, it is overlapped by the thin anterior aargins of the lungs with their pleural sacs, especially on the left side. Posteriorly \ is in relation with the bronchi, the oesophagus, and pneumogastric nerves, and the ascending aorta. On each side the pericardium is covered by the parietal layer f the pleura, the phrenic nerve and its companion artery intervening. On opening he pericardium the following structures may be observed: the greater part of he right and a portion of the left ventricle with the interventricular sulcus, the ight auricle and right auricular appendix (the latter overlapping the root of jhe aorta), the auriculo-ventricular sulcus ; the first portion of the aorta with tie superior vena cava on its right side, and the pulmonary artery at first overlying bd then passing to its left side, with the tip of the left auricular appendix. If the eart be raised upwards and to the right, its posterior surface is seen to consist of ,ie greater part of the left ventricle, and the remaining portion of the right, the entricular sulcus dividing the two. Lying transversely above the ventricle in jie auriculo-ventricular groove is the coronary sinus, receiving some of the cardiac eins, and also the oblique vein of Marshall from the back of the left auricle, the pots of the pulmonary veins, and the very small portion of the inferior cava above le diaphragm, may also be noticed. The tv*^o ventricles rest in about equal proportions on the central tendon of the iaphragm. The main branches of the coronary arteries of the heart occupy lie grooves. Vessels.—The arteries of the pericardium are derived from the pericardiac, jsophageal, and bronchial branches of the thoracic aorta, and from the internal lamniary and phrenic. THE HEART i j The heart—enclosed in the pericardium—occupies the greater part of the middle lediastinal space. It is a somewhat flattened, cone-shaped, hollow, muscular organ. Position.—In the adult the heart lies obliquely behind the lower two-thirds of jie sternum, projecting considerably to its left side. Its base is directed slightly owards and backwards, and to the right; its apex downwards and forwards, bd to the left. The base corresponds to the sixth, seventh, and eighth thoracic Irtebrae; and the apex to the chest wall on the left side, between the fifth and [xth rib cartilages. I 3 Q 2 I