THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION 1034 the whole of the small intestine, together with the cfeciim and the ascending colon, were slung from a common mesentery, the attachment of which to the posterioi parietes was by a narrow neck giving passage to the superior mesenteric artery, and bounded by the duodenum and the transverse colon. In these subjects there was no trace of the mesentery proper as it is found in the normal human body, The duodenum had been deprived of its meso-duodenum, and the descending meso j colon was comparatively scanty; but, wdth these and some minor exceptions, thei resemblance of the arrangement of the bow^els to that met with in the loAver animabi was very exact. It is the existence of this immature condition that predisposes tci certain forms of twist or volvulus of the bowel. I The progress of this rudimentary revolution of the intestinal tube may be notecj by observing the progress of the caecum. i That prominent diverticulum lies at first below the loop forming the lesser bowel: and then to its left side. It is at first without the abdomen, and is gradually with j drawn in the progress of development through the rapidly closing umbilical opening, It then lies about the middle of the belly and just below the liver. Later, ii passes to the right side, and then descends into the right iliac fossa. ' Fig. 597.—Diagram to show the Eotation of the Intestinal Canal. It may be permanently arrested at any point of its course. In the conditior known as the congenital umbilical hernia, the gap in the anterior abdominal parietes; has never closed, and the protruding loop of bowel has never been quite withdraw! ^ into the abdomen. The sac of such a hernia is made out of the tissues of th( umbilical cord, and the contents are usually the caecum and lower part of th( ileum, and not infrequently a Meckel's diverticulum. As has been mentione(, already, the caecum may be found near the middle line or in the right hypochondria( region (page 1007). It is then spoken of as undescended. Final chang^es in the peritoneum.—Further changes in the position of th(; intestine and in the arrangement of the peritoneum are finally brought about, am: these changes are almost entirely limited to the human subject. The intestinij grows, and other abdominal viscera are encroaching upon the peritoneum. Thi;- membrane is mobile, is easily drawn from one point to another, and is capabL of considerable adjustment. It does not, however, continue to grow at the saim rate as the viscera which it serves to cover. The peritoneum is relatively mor<; extensive in the foetus than in the adult, and in the lower mammals than in man. ■ If the viscera grow out of proportion to the peritoneum, it is evident that th( j reflexions of that membrane must here and there be shortened ; and it is possibL ■