THE KIDNEYS 1043 f the female kidney differ little from those of the male, but its weight is from one- eventh to one-fifth less. In the child the organ is relatively large, but its permanent elation to the body weight is usually attained by the end of the tenth year of life. It offers for description tAvo surfaces, two extremities, and two borders. The nterior or visceral surface is convex, and looks obliquely forwards and outwards ; iie posterior or parietal surface, less convex than the anterior, looks inwards and ackwards; the rounded upper extremity is usually somewhat larger than the nver, and is placed about half an inch nearer to the median sagittal plane of the ody. The external border is narrow and convex. The internal border (or surface), )oldng forwards, inwards, and slightly downwards, is relatively broad, and is ssured vertically in the middle third of its length by the hilum. j The hilum is a slit-like aperture bounded by two rounded lips of variable and jLiequal thickness. The posterior lip is nearer to the middle line than the anterior,, id between the two pass the renal vessels and nerves, the duct, and a quantity of :,t-bearing connective tissue. The sinus (fig. 609), occupied by the structures just kmed, is narrowest near its entrance, and about an inch in depth. Its fundus is Fig. 608.—Diagram showing Eelation of Kidney to Capsule. in SUBPERITONEAL TISSUE FATTY CAPSULE Renal vessels embedded in sulperitoneal tissue prced by the renal vessels and nerves, and by the uriniferous tubules ; and gives £ achment to the primary branches (calices) of the duct. Investment and fixation.—The entire organ is enveloped and supported by a lid of capsule of fat-bearing connective tissue derived from the parietal layer of subperitoneal fascia (fig. 608). The adipose element may be in large or small cintity. In the latter case the investment often appears as a transparent fascial file, which in renal operations may be mistaken for peritoneum, or fascia trans- ^ salis ; or, if the fat be excessively developed, it may form a kind of hernial pttrusion into the parietal incision. Should the sustentacular power of the fatty Cj)sule become impaired from any cause, the phenomenon of movable or wandering l^jiiey is established, the organ tending to shift its place as far and in such flection as the attachment of its vessels to the main trunk will permit. A partial Cjering of peritoneum is loosely adherent to its anterior surface. Position and relations.—The kidney is commonly said to iie in the lumbar ' 3x2