1287 THE ANKLE longns hallucis cannot be felt. Having parted internally from the fibula, it crosses 1 the lower end of the tibia in a separate furrow, then grooves the back of the astragalus, and passes under the sustentaculum tali on its way to its insertion. The arrangement of the structures at the inner ankle from above downwards, and from within onwards, is as follows (fig. 780):—tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, companion vein, posterior tibial artery, companion vein, posterior tibial nerve, flexor longus hallucis. (D) Tendons at outer ankle.—The tendons of the two peronei, which arise from (the fibula between the extensor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, pass I behind the external malleolus, the brevis being nearer to the bone (fig. 781). They then pass forwards over the outer surface of the calcaneum, separated by the peroneal tubercle when present, and diverge. The brevis, the upper one, passes to the pro- jection at the base of the fifth metatarsal; the longus, lying below the brevis on the calcaneum, winds round the outer border of the foot, grooving the outer border and under surface of the cuboid. Finally, crossing the sole obliquely forwards and inwards, it is attached to the adjacent parts of the internal cuneiform and the back part and under surface of the first metatarsal. While in connection with the cuboid, this tendon is covered in by a sheath from the long plantar ligament, and often contains a sesamoid bone. Annular ligaments and synovial membranes of tendons.—These strap-like ibands of deep fascia, which serve to keep the above tendons in position, are three in number, viz. :— (A) External.—This extends from the tip of the external malleolus to the outer surface of the calcaneum. It keeps the two peronei in place, and surrounds them 3ehind the fibula in one sheath with a single synovial sac, which extends upwards Into the leg for an inch and a half, and sends two processes into the two sheaths j.n which the tendons lie on the calcaneum. Farther on, while in relation with the puboid, the peroneus longus has a second synovial sheath. (B) Internal.—This crosses from the internal malleolus to the inner surface of the calcaneum. Beneath it are the following canals : (1) For the tibialis posticus. This tendon-sheath is lined by a synovial membrane extending from a point an inch and 1 half above the malleolus to the scaphoid. (2) For the flexor longus digitorum. rhe synovial sheath of this tendon is separate from that of the closely contiguous libialis posticus. It extends upwards into the leg about as high as the sheath just |)iven. It reaches down into the sole of the foot; but where the tendon subdivides to Imter the thecse, each of these is lined by a separate synovial sheath. Next comes 13) a wide space for the posterior tibial vessels and nerve ; and lastly, (4) a canal, like the other two, with a separate synovial sheath, for the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. (C) Anterior annular ligament.—This is a double structure. (1) Upper, above .he level of the ankle joint, and tying the tendons down to the lower third of the eg, it passes transversely between the anterior crest of the tibia and fibula. Here s one sheath only, with a synovial membrane for the tibiahs posticus. (2) Lower, iver the ankle joint. This band is arranged Hke the letter -<, placed thus. It s attached by its root to the calcaneum, and by its bifurcations to the internal nalleolus and the fascia of the sole. This arrangement of the branches of this igament is not constant. In this, the lower annular Hgament, there are usually hree sheaths with separate synovial membranes—the innermost (the strongest in ach) for the tibialis anticus, the next for the extensor proprius hallucis, and the jhird common to the extensor communis and peroneus tertius. Points in tenotomy and guides to the tendons.—The tendo Achillis should be liivided about an inch and a half above its insertion, its narrowest point, which is f.bout on a level with the internal malleolus. The knife should be introduced on the inner side and close to the tendon, so as to avoid the posterior tibial artery (fig. 775.)