555 AXILLABY I Bkanches op the Fikst Part of the Axillaey Akteey 1. The superior or short thoracic is variously given off from the axillary artery, i|Ually either as a common trmik with the next branch, the acromial thoracic, or iliittle above. It passes behind the axillary vein across the first intercostal space, J pplying-the intercostal muscles and the upper portion of the serratus magnus, and i|.astomoses with the intercostal arteries. At times it sends a branch between the ]|ctoralis major and minor, which then, as a rule, more or less takes the place of ts pectoral branch of the acromial thoracic. 2. The acromio-thoracic, or thoracic axis, arises from the front part of the dllary just above the upper border of the pectoralis minor. It is a short trunk, jd coming off from the front of the artery pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, i d then divides into three or four small branches, named from their direction :— ) the acromial, or thoracica acromialis ; {h) the humeral, or thoracica humerahs ; (il the pectoral, or short thoracic of some authors ; and {d) the clavicular. {a) The acromial branch or branches pass outwards across the coracoid process, 1 iquently through the deltoid muscle, which they in part supply, to the acromion, uere they form, by anastomosing with the anterior and posterior circumflex and jprascapular arteries, the so-called acromial rete, or plexus of vessels on the (rface of that process. {h) The humeral branch—the descending branch of some authors—runs down- rzds with the cephalic vein in the interval between the pectoralis major and the (Itoid, and, supplying lateral offsets to these muscles and the adjacent integuments, lastomoses with the anterior and posterior circumflex arteries. (c) The pectoral branch passes between the pectoralis major and minor muscles, Ijth of which it supplies, and the superimposed mammary gland. In the female, (|e or more of these branches which perforate the pectoralis major are often of ]:ge size. {d) The clavicular branch passes upwards beneath the clavicle, and supplies e subclavius muscle, and anastomoses Avith the suprascapular artery. Branches of the Second Part of the Axillary Artery 1. The long thoracic artery—also called the external mammary—descends Jf)ng the lower border of the pectoralis minor, under cover of the pectoralis ijijor, to the walls of the chest. It supplies both pectoral muscles and the irratus magnus, sends branches round the lower border of the pectoralis major to ;e mammary gland, and terminates in the intercostal muscles by anastomosing ^th the aortic intercostals and the internal mammary. It also furnishes branches l| the glands of the axilla. The branches to the mammary gland in the female often of large size. 2. The alar thoracic are small branches given off either directly from the axillary i tery to the Ij^mphatic glands in the axilla, or from some of the other branches of l!3 first or second part of the axillary artery. I Branches of the Third Part of the Axillary Artery ! 1. The subscapular artery is the largest branch of the axillary. It arises cbosite the lower border of the subscapularis, and runs downwards and inwards a ng the anterior border of that muscle under cover of the latissimus dorsi as ( as the angle of the scapula, where it anastomoses with the dorsal scapular Interior scapular, long thoracic, infrascapular, and the intercostal arteries. The liig subscapular nerve accompanies it. It supplies the subscapularis, teres major.