PECTINEUS—GLUTEUS MAXIMUS 371 lio-pubal eminence ; (2) the surface in front of the inner end of this line; and 3) the deep surface of the pubic portion of the fascia lata close to its attachment 0 the ilio-pectineal line. Insertion.—The back of the femur in a vertical line about two inches long, leginning just behind the lesser trochanter. Structure.—The origin is by fleshy and tendinous fibres intermingled. The ibres then run parallel to one another to a tendinous insertion between the iliacus ,nd the adductor brevis. The direction of the surfaces changes so that that which 3oks forwards above is directed outwards below. V Nerve-supply.—From the lumbar plexus (through the third and fourth lumbar i jierves), by a branch of the anterior crural nerve, which, after passing behind the emoral artery and vein, enters the muscle about the middle of its external border. Vhen there is an accessory obturator nerve, it passes over the brim of the pelvis supply this muscle at the upper part of its anterior surface. Occasionally the atiscle receives a branch upon its deep surface from the anterior division of the bturator nerve. j Action.—To flex and at the same time'adduct the thigh ; as, for example, in rossing the legs, when one thigh is brought forwards and inwards to place it in font of the other thigh. It is also a slight external rotator. Its predominant ction is that of flexion, as is indicated by the fact that it receives the same nerve- upply as the sartorius and ilio-psoas. The tendency w^hich it has to adduct during exion is counteracted by the slight abduction produced by the sartorius. They dll together produce a slight external rotation, as may be observed during the dvance of the leg in walking. Relations.—In front, the pubic portion of the fascia lata, the femoral and jrofunda vessels, and at its insertion the psoas and iliacus muscles; behind, the ductor brevis, obturator externus, hip joint, and obturator nerve. Variations.—Sometimes a slight blending of the lower fibres of the pectineus with the Iductor lonofus has been observed. THE GLUTEAL MUSCLES These are arranged in three layers. First Layer The first layer consists of two muscles—the gluteus maximus and the tensor Ebgin^ femoris. j 1. GLUTEUS MAXIMUS I ji The gluteus maximus (figs. 291, 303)—named from its great size and from the llsgion which it occupies {yXovros = the buttock)—is a very thick and strong ■ lomboidal sheet. PI Origin.—(1) The posterior fifth of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, and the ater surface of the ilium between the outer Hp of the crest and the superior gluteal ne ; (2) the lumbar aponeurosis between the posterior superior spine of the ilium id the side of the sacrum ; (3) the lateral portion of the posterior surface of the TO last pieces of the sacrum; (4) the side of the coccyx; (5) the back of the ceat sacro-sciatic ligament; (6) in front of its attachment to the ilium a few of Is fibTes arise from the strong process of the fascia lata which invests the gluteus iiedius. B B 2