603 GLUTEAL beneath the gluteal vein, and in front of the superior gluteal nerve. It here breaks iup into two chief branches, a superficial and a deep. Its emergence from the ! pelvis is indicated on the surface by a point situated at the junction of the posterior with the middle third of a line drawn from the anterior superior to the posterior superior spine of the ilium. • Branches of the gluteal artery :— {a) Within the pelvis, branches are distributed to the obturator internus, the pyriformis, the levator ani, the coccygeus, and the pelvic bones. I [h] External to the pelvis, the artery divides into a superficial and deep branch. Fig. 369.—The Gluteal Kegion, with the Gluteal, Sciatic, and Pudic Arteries. (From a dissection by W. J. AValsham in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) The inferior gluteal branch of the sciatic artery has been drawn inwards over the tuber ischii with the reflected origin of the gluteus maximus muscle. Grluteus medius, turned up INFERIOR GLUTEAI NERVE i Gluteus minimus Grluteus maximus, cut Internal circumflex artery Obturator externus Insertion of gluteus niedius External circumflex artery Muscular branches of sciatic artery Dee}} branch of gluteal artery S U PERI OR GL UTEA L NER VE Pyriformis perforated by peroneal portion of seiatie nerve Cut edge of gluteus maximus Insertion of gluteus maximus First perforating artery QLiadratus femoris Branch of internal circumflex artery Obturator internus witli the two gemelli Fudic artery and nerve Sciatic artery Biceps Semi-tendinosus Semi-membranosus LESSER SCIATIC NERVE Artena nervi comes ischiatici OPLITEA L FOR TION OF ORE A T SCI A TIC NER VE LONG PUDENDAL NERVE PERONEAL PORTION OF GREAT SCIATIC NERVE (i) The superficial branch breaks up into a number of large vessels for the supply of the upper portion of the gluteus maximus, some of them piercing the muscle and supplying the skin over it, and anastomosing with the posterior branches of the lateral sacral arteries; whilst one of larger size, emerging from the muscle near the iliac crest, anastomoses with the deep circumflex iliac artery. The lower branches to the muscle anastomose with branches of the sciatic.