1065 THE TESTICLES The epididymis represents the second stage in the course of the seminiferous |vessels. The vasa efferentia, after their escape from the testicle proper, form each k tube about six to eight inches in length, lined with ciliated epithelium and coiled In such a manner as to assume the form of a conical mass, the conus vasculosus, Lith the apex towards the albuginea. The coni vasculosi grouped together constitute 'the globus major, and their respective tubules are collected by a single canal, the tube of the epididymis, which by its complex coils, fifteen to twenty feet in length, makes up the body and globus minor of the epididymis, and finally terminates in the free portion of the duct, the vas deferens. It presents near its termination jne or more diverticula, the largest and most constant of which, the vas aberrans Ipf Haller, ranges from an inch and a half to fifteen inches in length, and runs up [between the body of the epididymis and the commencement of the vas deferens, the tube of the epididymis, like those of the coni vasculosi, is lined with ciliated epithelium, but its walls are thick, and contain two layers of unstriped muscular (fibres. Two little bodies of some morphological interest are to be found appended to the testicle proper and the globus major. The less constant of these, known as the hydatid of Morgagni, is a pediculated sac from one-eighth to one-third of m inch in length, dilated at its free extremity and containing a clear fluid; the 3ther, rarely absent, has about the same dimensions, but is usually sessile and iattened, and may be subdivided into two or three lobes. It is believed to correspond :o the upper end of the Fallopian tube, and to be the remains of the Miillerian duct jpage 1094), the foetal structure from which are developed the most important part of the internal genitals of the female. Another relic, called the paradidymis, or organ of Giraldes, probably derived :i'om the Wolffian body (page 1094), is found over the lowest portion of the spermatic I'ord immediately above the head of the epididymis. It consists of coiled tubules, )lind and dilated at both ends, lying beneath the visceral layer of the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis. It usually has the appearance of a white or rellowish irregular patch about one-fifth of an inch in diameter. Any of these anbryonic structures may give rise to cystic tumours, and the aberrant tubes are )robably not an uncommon source of origin of true spermatic cysts containing leminal fluid. The testicle remains small until the period of puberty, when, together with the )rostate, it begins to undergo rapid development; but in some cases its evolution s arrested before it has attained its full dimensions, and this is particularly liable 0 occur when its descent into the scrotum has not taken place, or when a varicose lilatation of its veins appears before adolescence. In old age it usually loses much )f its functional activity, but this is not invariably the case. The VAS DEFERENS is the continuation of the tube of the epididymis, and extends rem the globus minor to the prostatic portion of the urethra. In the lower part )f its course it is slender and tortuous, but it becomes thicker and straighter as it scends along the back of the epididymis (testicular stage), and attains its full ize before it reaches the top of the organ. From this point it is the principal lement of the spermatic cord, and runs upwards almost vertically as far as the ixternal inguinal ring (funicular stage) ; entering the inguinal canal, it runs I'bliquely outwards, upwards, and slightly backwards to the internal ring (inguinal Ptage). It then quits the associated vessels of the cord, and, winding around the rigin of the deep epigastric artery to the inner side of the external iliac artery and 11 front of the external iliac vein, enters the pelvis (pelvic stage) close to the ilio- ubic suture, and runs downwards and backwards over the side of the bladder, irossing it on the vesical side of the obliterated hypogastric artery and ureter, to |each the side of the posterior wall of the viscus. Here it lies between the bladder jud the second stage of the rectum, and, becoming enlarged and sacculated, passes