1117 THE SKULL ;he state of the external table. This may be whole, or merely cracked, while the nternal shows many fragments, which may set up meningitis, or other mischief. Anatomical conditions tending to minimise the effects of violence inflicted upon :he skull.—(1) The density and mobility of the scalp. (2) The dome-like shape of :he skull. This, like an egg-shell, is calculated to bear hard blows and also to allow jihem to glide off, (3) The number of bones tends to break up the force of a blow, I'l) The sutures interrupt the transmission of violence, (5) The internal membrane I remains of foetal periosteum) acts in early life as a linear buffer, (6) The elasticity of :he outer table, (7) The overlapping- of some bones, e.g, the parietal by the Fig. 664,—The Course of the Occipital Artery. Anterior hrandi of -posterior auricular Posterior hranch of posterior auricular 'AROTID GLAND, displaced and turned up Sterno-mastoid, cut Auricular hranch of occipital Rectus capitis lateralis SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE Posterior auricular Internal jugular vein Facial artery lYPOGLOSSAL NER VE Lingual arterii PNEUMOGASTRW NERVE Superior thyroid artery Comnio7i carotid External branch of occipital artery Internal branch of occipital Complexus Arteria princeps cervicis Superior oblitiue muscle Traclielo-mastoid, cut Splenius capitis, cut Meningeal branches Sterno-mastoid branch of occipital Internal carolid Sterno-mastoid External carolid Trapezius quamous ; and the alternate bevelling of adjacent bones, e.g. at the coronal suture. S) The presence of ribs or groins, e.g. {a) from the crista galli to the internal ccipital protuberance ; {h) from the root of the nose to the zygoma ; (c) the temporal idge from orbit to mastoid ; {d) from mastoid to mastoid; (e) from the external ccipital protuberance to the foramen magnum. (9) Buttresses, e.g. malar and ygomatic processes, and the greater wing of the sphenoid. (10) The mobility of tie head upon the spine. Arteries.—The supraorbital artery can be felt beating just above its notch junction of inner with outer two-thirds of supraorbital arch); the temporal itself can