THE MUSCLES 300 be raised alters the conditions, and, as a matter of fact, the muscle, instead of obtaining any mechanical advantage in its action, has to contract with a force four or five times as great as the weight to be raised. It will be found that most of the muscles belong either to the third order, in which there is necessarily mechanical disadvantage, or to the first order ; and in this case the arm at which the power acts is usually the shorter, so that the power has to be greater than the resistance. In the movements of the forearm about the elbow as a fulcrum, the triceps acting with the very short arm afforded by the pro- jection of the olecranon and overcoming a resistance experienced by the hand at the other end of the radius and ulna, will be a lever of the first order. The brachio-radialis (supinator longus) when used to flex the forearm acts at the lower end of the radius, so as to overcome the weight of the forearm and hand, which will act through the centre of gravity of the limb about the middle of the radius, and therefore much nearer to the fulcrum at the elbow. If its angle of insertion were not so very small, the muscle would thus obtain a considerable mechanical advantage. This extreme obliquity, however, actually places the muscle in a condition of mechanical disadvantage. Lastly, the biceps and brachialis anticus are both of them good examples of the third order of lever, when they act by their insertion close to the fulcrum of the elbow to flex the forearm, the centre of gravity of which is much farther from the joint. The direction of the tendon at its point of insertion is of great importance in estimating the effect of the contraction of any muscle. It is rarely perpendicular to Fig. 260. its lever. There is, therefore, in nearly every case, a considerable loss of mechanical advantage ; but it should be remembered that this is more than counterbalanced by important gains. In the first place, the range and rapidity of movement are greatly increased for a given contraction of the muscle ; and in the second place a power is also produced by which the articular ends of the bones bridged over by the muscle are pressed together, so that the tendency to dislocation of the joint is diminished. A third advantage is the compactness given to the limb by the tendons being placed in close apposition to the bones, an object which could not be attained unless their insertions were very oblique. Take the case of the brachio-radialis flexing the forearm. In the adjoining diagram let E be the elbow, B E the humerus, E E the radius, and B E the line of; the brachio-radialis. To estimate how much of the contracting force of the muscle is actually expended in flexing the forearm, all that is necessary is to take any point K in B E, to draw K A perpendicular to E E, and form a rectangle E A K C, on E A. If the force of the muscle acting along E B be represented by the line E K, then E C will represent that portion of the force which tends to flex the elbow, and E A the portion which is devoted to compression of the head of the radius against the capitellum of the humerus, so as to strengthen the elbow joint. Again, let E E'be the new position of the forearm after the brachio-radialis has contracted. The arc of the circle through which it has moved will be indicated by E E', a small arc drawn*