865 SYMPATHETIC NEBVES 'ormed by the union of two ganglia. The cord takes a vertical course down the leck, and is in contact posteriorly with the prevertebral layer of the cervical fascia. Behind this fascia it corresponds to the rectus capitis anticus major above, and the ongus colli below. These muscles and the prevertebral fascia intervene between the cord and the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. The internal carotid fibove, and the common carotid artery below, are placed in front of the gangliated 3ord, and the pneumogastric nerve is external to it. I Superior Cervical Ganglion The superior cervical ganglion is a fusiform body, about one inch to an inch md a half in length. It corresponds to the transverse processes of the second and lihird (and sometimes the first) cervical vertebrae. Above, it is continued into a stout trunk which is called the ascending branch. Below, it ends in a cord which Dasses downwards to join the middle cervical ganglion. It is connected to the interior primary divisions of the four upper cervical nerves by as many rami com- municantes. Occasionally the number of rami is increased to five or six. The yanglion is occasionally constricted at intervals—these constrictions affording an ndication of the individual ganglia by the coalescence of which the superior . jervical ganglion is formed. ( Branches.—The branches of the superior cervical ganglion are the ascending pranch ; branches which follow the distribution of the external carotid artery (nervi noUes); branches of communication to cranial nerves ; pharyngeal nerves; and ;he superior cervical cardiac nerve. 1. The ascending branch enters the carotid canal in the temporal bone and iivides into a larger external branch which forms the carotid plexus, and a smaller internal branch which ends in the cavernous plexus. These plexuses communicate frequently with one another around the artery, and may be regarded as different parts of the same plexus rather than distinct plexuses. The carotid plexus is formed by repeatedly communicating branches, which [qUow the internal carotid artery in the carotid canal, keeping close to the outer side of that vessel. The following nerves arise from it : tympanic; great deep petrosal; and a communicating branch to the sixth nerve. (a) The tympanic branch (small deep petrosal) enters a minute canal (carotico- tympanic canal) in the temporal bone, by which it is conducted to the tympanic Iplexus (page 814). (b) The great deep petrosal nerve passes forwards and inwards through the cartilage which occupies the foramen lacerum medium, and unites with the great superficial petrosal to form the Vidian nerve (page 800). (c) The branches to the Gasserian ganglion are given off from the plexus as it [emerges from the carotid canal. (d) The branches to the sixth nerve are very distinct, and can be easily seen I when the cavernous sinus is opened. They join the abducens as it is crossing the outer side of the internal carotid artery. \ The cavernous plexus is placed on the inner side of the internal carotid artery near the pituitary body. Its terminal offsets follow the ophthalmic and cerebral branches of the internal carotid artery. In addition to these it gives off the following branches :— (a) Communicating branches to the third, fourth, and ophthalmic division of the fifth cranial nerves. {b) The sympathetic root of the lenticular ganglion. This root is usually in the form of several fine filaments which enter the ganglion at its posterior border. (c) Two or three fine twigs enter the pituitary body. 2. The nervi moUes are given off from the anterior part of the superior cervical 3K