573 BADIAL may terminate in the forearm or be absent, its place in the forearm and hand being then suppHed by the ulnar, the anterior interosseous, or an enlarged median artery. (F) It may be joined by a vas aberrans from the brachial or axillary artery. The branches of the radial artery in the forearm are :—(1) The radial recurrent; (2) the muscular ; (3) the anterior radial carpal; (4) the superficial volar. (1) The radial recurrent usually arises from the outer side of the radial just below its origin from the brachial. It at first runs outwards on the supinator brevis, and then divides into three chief branches (fig. 357). One of these runs transversely Fig. 357.—The Bend of the Elbow. (From a dissection by Dr. Alder Smith in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.) MEDIAN NERVE Anastomotica magna BRANCHES { OF INTERNAL \ 'TANEOUS NERVE ( Pos/erio?' ulnar vein- Braehialis antieus Anasfo?notica magna artery Anterior ulnar vein Median basilic vein VUSCULAR BRANCH OF MEDIAN NERVE Tendon of biceps Bicipital fascia Braehialis antieus Deep median vein Ulnar artery Pronator teres Radial artery Biceps Basilic vein Braehialis antieus Cephalic vein Brachial artery EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE Musculo-spiral n. and ascend, hr. of radial recur, art. Radial vein Median cephalic vein Ascending hr. of radial recurrent RADIAL NER VE Radial recurrent artery Supinator longus Descending hr. of radial recurrent Median vein RADIAL NERVE outwards through the fibres of the musculo-spiral nerve, or between the radial and [posterior interosseous nerves when the musculo-spiral divides higher than usual, into the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, and ana- stomoses with the interosseous recurrent. A second ascends between the braehialis antieus and supinator longus, with the musculo-spiral nerve, and anastomoses with the superior profunda artery. A third descends with the radial nerve under cover of the supinator longus supplying that muscle. The radial recurrent also gives off branches to the elbow joint.