EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS 685 iliac, superficial epigastric, and superficial external pudic veins, it dips through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, and ends in the femoral vein. In its course up the leg and thigh it receives numerous unnamed cutaneous branches, and at variable intervals communicates with the deep veins. Just before it passes through the saphenous opening, it often receives a large vein (external femoral cutaneous) formed by the union of several of the cutaneous veins .on the upper and outer part of the thigh, and a second vein (the internal femoral cutaneous) formed by the union of the cutaneous veins from the inner and back part of the thigh. The long saphenous vein contains from ten to twenty valves. The short or external saphenous vein begins at the outer end of the venous arch, or plexus, on the dorsum of the foot. After receiving branches from the sole, which turn over the outer border of the foot, it passes behind the outer ankle, and then upwards and inwards, lying at first along the outer side of the tendo Achillis, afterwards along the back of the calf, in company with the external or short saphenous nerve, to about the lower part of the centre of the popliteal space, where it perforates the deep fascia, and, sinking between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, opens into the popliteal vein. As it passes up the calf between the superficial and deep fascia, it receives numerous cutaneous veins from the heel, and the outer side and back part of the leg, and communicates at intervals, through transverse or intermuscular branches, with the deep veins (venae comites) accom- panying the peroneal artery. Just before perforating the deep fascia, it receives a large descending branch from the lower and back part of the thigh, and sends upwards and inwards a communicating vein to the long saphenous. A small offshoot from the inferior sural branch of the popliteal artery accompanies the vein for a short distance down the back of the calf. The short saphenous vein contains from nine to twelve valves. II. THE DEEP VEINS OF THE LOWEB EXTREMITY The deep veins of the lower extremity accompany the arteries, and have received corresponding names. From the foot to the knee there are two veins to each artery. These veins run on either side of the corresponding artery, and communicate at frequent intervals with each other across it They are known as the ven^e comites. From the knee upwards there is a single vein to each artery, except at the back of the thigh and in the gluteal region, where there are com- monly two. The veins of the foot and leg.—The venae comites of the internal and ex- ternal plantar arteries, after receiving small veins corresponding to the branches of these vessels, unite, beneath the abductor hallucis muscle, to form the venae comites of the posterior tibial artery. These, again, receive, at the spot where the peroneal artery is given off from the posterior tibial, the ven^ comites of the peroneal artery, which are formed in like manner by the confluence of the various veins corresponding to the branches of that vessel. Opposite the lower border of the popliteus muscle, the posterior tibial veins unite with the anterior tibial veins, which pass through the upper part of the interosseous membrane with the anterior tibial artery, to form the popliteal. The anterior tibial veins are the continuation of the ven^ comites of the dorsal artery of the foot, which, in their turn, are formed by the confluence of the veins accompanying its various branches. The anterior tibial venae comites thus formed run with the anterior tibial artery up the front of the leg, and, after passing through the interosseous membrane along with the artery, join the posterior tibial veins to form a single popliteal. All these veins contain numerous valves, and communicate, by means of inter- muscular branches, with the superficial veins.