145 THE METACABPUS Muscles:— Flexor carpi radialis. First and second dorsal interosseous. Extensor carpi radialis longior. First palmar interosseous. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Flexor brevis pollicis. Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery is derived from the first palmar inter- osseous. It enters on the ulnar side, and is directed towards the proximal end or jbase of the bone. [ The Thied Metacarpal is easily recognised by the prominent styloid process which projects from the radial corner of the dorsal surface of the base. A little below this process the extensor carjpi radialis brevior finds insertion. The carpal jsurface of the base is nearly plane for the magnum. The radial surface has a long 'narrow facet for the second metacarpal. On the ulnar side, two rounded facets are usually seen for the fourth metacarpal. Not infrequently one of them is absent. I Muscles:— ' Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Second and third dorsal interosseous. Adductor pollicis. Fig. 150.—The Fourth (Left) Metacarpal. FOR THI ULNAR SIDE FOR FIFTH METACARPAL Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery is derived from the interosseous : it enters, as a rule, on the radial side, and is directed towards the base. The Fourth Metacarpal has a very small base. By its carpal surface it arti- culates with the unciform. The radial surface has two rounded facets for the third metacarpal; there is a small facet for the magnum at the posterior radial corner. The ulnar side has a narrow articular surface for the fifth metacarpal. Muscles :— The third dorsal interosseous. The fourth dorsal interosseous. The third palmar interosseous. Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery is furnished by the second interosseous ; it enters on the radial side of the shaft, and is directed towards the proximal end. The Fifth Metacarpal is readily distinguished. The carpal facet is convex for the unciform. The ulnar aspect of the base forms a rounded tubercle for the extensor carjn ulnaris, whilst the radial side has a semilunar facet for the fourth L