221 OF THE BIBS WITH VEBTEBB^ The stellate ligament is overlapped at the spine by the short vertebral ligaments. In the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, which articulate with i)ne vertebra, the ligament is not quite so distinctly stellate, but even in these the 'ascending fibres reach the vertebra above that with which the rib articulates. The synovial membranes (fig. 216) consist of two closed sacs which do not jommunicate : one above, and the other below the interarticular ligament. In ,he case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth articulations, there is but one Synovial membrane, as these joints have no interarticular ligament. The arterial supply is from the intercostal arteries, the twigs piercing the ;tellate and capsular ligaments. The nerve-supply comes from the anterior primary branches of the intercostal lerves. The movements are ginglymoid in character, and limited to a slight degree of elevation and depression around an obliquely horizontal axis corresponding with tjhe interarticular ligament; there is also a slight amount of forward and backward sliding, and occasionally a slight degree of screwing or rotatory movement. There IS a considerable difference in the degree of mobility of the different ribs, for while the first rib is almost immobile except in a very deep inspiration, the mobility of 'the others increases from the second to the last; the two floating ribs being the Qiost mobile of all. The head of the rib is the most fixed point of the costal arch, md upon it the whole arch rotates ; the interarticular ligament allows only a very limited amount of flexion and extension (i.e. elevation and depression), and of gliding. Gliding is checked by the stellate ligament. In inspiration, the rib is elevated, and glides forwards in its socket, too great elevation being checked not only by the ligaments, but also by the overhanging upper edge of the cavity itself. In expiration, the rib is depressed, and glides back in its cavity. {h) The Costo-transveese Articulation Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. This joint is formed by the tubercle of the rib articulating with the anterior part of the tip of the transverse process. The eleventh and twelfth ribs are devoid of these joints, for the tubercles of these ribs are absent, and the transverse iprocesses of the eleventh and twelfth thoracic vertebrae are rudimentary. I The ligaments of the union are :—■ Capsular. Superior costo-transverse. Middle costo-transverse. Posterior costo-transverse. \\ The capsular ligament (figs. 214 and 216) forms a thin, loose, fibrous 'envelope to the synovial membrane. Its fibres are attached to the bones just beyond the articular margins, and are thickest below, where they are not strengthened i by any other structure. They are connected on the inner side with the middle, above with the superior, and on the outer side with the posterior costo-transverse [ligaments. The eleventh and twelfth ribs are unprovided with a capsule. The middle costo-transverse, or interosseous ligament (fig. 216), consists of short fibres passing between the back of the neck of the rib and front of the transverse process, with which the tubercle articulates. It extends from the capsule of the central costo-vertebral joint to that of the costo-transverse. It is best seen on horizontal section through the bones. In the eleventh and twelfth ribs this ligament is rudimentary. The posterior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 216) is a short but thick, strong, and broad ligament, which extends outwards and upwards from the extremity, of