176 THE SKELETON from without forwards and inwards. This, the peroneal groove, lodges th( tendon of the peroneus long-us. The corner of the ridge on the narrow outer (fibular) border of the bone usually faceted for a sesamoid bone frequently found in the tendon of the peroneuf longus. The margin of the ridge and the surface of bone behind it afford attach ment to the long and short plantar (calcaneo-cuboid) ligaments. The flexor brevi hallucis muscle has a small attachment to this part of the cuboid. The internal surface presents near its middle and upper part an oval facet foi articulation with the external cuneiform bone ; behind this, a second facet for th( scaphoid is frequently seen. Occasionally the two facets are confluent and form ar elliptical surface. The remainder of the internal surface is rough, and has strong interosseous ligaments attached to it. Jutting from the inferior internal angle of the posterior surface is a process oj bone (calcanean process of cuboid), which projects beneath the sustentaculum tah Fig. 175.—The Left Cuboid. (Inner view.) FOR EXTERNAL CUNEIFORM FOR CALCANEUM FOR SCAPHOID (OCCASIONAL) GROOVE FOR TENDON OF THE PERONEUS LONGUS FOR FOURTH METATARSAL I* This process occasionally terminates in a rounded facet, which plays on the heac of the astragalus external to the facet for the spring ligament. Articulations.—The cuboid articulates with the calcaneum ; the fourth and fiftl metatarsal bones, frequently with the scaphoid, and occasionally Avith the astragalus,] Muscles attached to the cuboid:— Tibialis posticus. Flexor brevis hallucis. Ligaments:— Superior calcaneo-cuboid. Inferior calcaneo-cuboid. Interosseous and the cubo-scaphoid ligaments. Ossification.—The cuboid is ossified from a single centre which appears a fe^ days after birth. Occasionally the nucleus is visible as a minute earthy spot the middle of the cartilage at birth. THE SCAPHOID The scaphoid (navicular) bone receives in the hollow of its posterior surface| the head of the astragalus. Anteriorly it is convex, and divided by two vertical ridges into three facets, for the internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones.j Occasionally a fourth facet, extremely variable in size, is seen at the outer inferior] angle for the cuboid. The upper (dorsal) surface is rough and broad; the inferior (plantar) surface is| nothing more than a ridge. The outer surface is rough for ligaments ; whilst the' inner forms a large and prominent eminence, the scaphoid tuberosity, which affords an important attachment for the tibialis loosticus tendon. Articulations.—With the head of the astragalus, with the three cuneiform bones, and frequently with the cuboid. i Muscle attached to the scaphoid.—The tibiahs posticus. i