1140 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY vertebrfe. The intercostal artery will not be injured if the opening be made below the middle of the space, which is very wide.' Outline of the heart. Its relation to the chest-wall.—The differences which exist in various accounts of the limits of the heart may be accounted for by th( fact that its position is not exactly the same in different people, and that the hearts position may be more or less misplaced by diseases at some distance from it. Th( upper limit of the heart (base) will be defined by a line crossing the sternum j little above the upper border of the third costal cartilage, reaching about half ai inch to the right and about one inch to the left. Its apex corresponds to a poin in the fifth space, about two inches below the male left nipple, and an inch to tb( inner side. This point will be about three inches from the left border of thi sternum. The right border (right auricle) ^vill be given by a line, slightly conve: outwards, drawn from the right extremity of the upper border to the right seventl chondro-sternal joint. If another line, similarly slightly convex, be drawn onward from this point across the last piece of the sternum, just above the xiphoid cartilage Fig. 687.—Anterior View of Fcbtal Heart, Vessels, and Lungs. ao7-ta '■ to the apex, it will give the lower border (right ventricle), which rests on the centij tendon of the diaphragm. The left border (left ventricle) will be given by a lir I convex to the left, passing from the left extremity of the upper border to the ap(; well inside the nipple line. This line should be three inches from the middle the sternum at the level of the fourth costal cartilage. j If a circle two inches in diameter be described around a point midway betwe ■ the left nipple and the lower end of the gladiolus, it will define with sufficie accuracy for practical purposes that part of the heart which lies immediate! behind the chest wall, and which is uncovered by lung or pleura. (Latham.) The valves.—The pulmonary valves (the most superficial) lie, in front of t j aortic, behind the left chondro-sternal joint, and opposite to the upper border j the third costal cartilage. The aortic valves lie behind and a little below the j opposite to the inner end of the third intercostal space, and on a level with t ^ lower border of the third costal cartilage. The auriculo-ventricular openin j lie at a somewhat lower level than that of the aortic and pulmonary. Thus t j