820 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM ! ! giosso-pharyngeal nuclei in the medulla, and would be more properly described as the most distal vagal roots (Obersteiner) than as a separate nerve. The accessory portion (distal vagal roots, or bulbar accessory) consists of four or five fasciculi which arise in a precisely similar manner to the roots of the vagus with which they are in series. Shortly after their emergence from the medulla they join the spinal portion and accompany the latter through the jugular foramen. Having gained the exterior of the skull, the bulbar accessory leaves the nerve with which it has been associated in part of its course, and joins the ganglion of the root of the vagus; some of its fibres pass into the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves as already described. The spinal portion arises from nerve-cells in the extreme lateral margin of the anterior horn in the cervical portion of the spinal cord. According to some anatomists the cells of the processus reticularis and the cells of the lateral horn are believed to be the nucleus of this nerve. Some of the fibres run longitudinally! for a short distance and join other more direct fibres, which arch backwards and' outwards to emerge at the lateral column of the cord between the posterior nerve! roots and the attachment of the ligamentum denticulatum. The superficial originj of the nerve is thus constituted by a row of filaments which extend from the fifth! or sixth (rarely the seventh) to the first cervical nerve. The lowest of this series' of roots is close to the ligamentum denticulatum ; the highest is near to the point i of emergence of the posterior roots of the first cervical nerve. The roots unite toi form a rounded cord Avhich courses upwards, increasing in size as it ascends, and] enters the cranial cavity by passing through the foramen magnum. Here it isl joined, for the time being, by the accessory portion, and passes with the latter, in: the form of a single trunk, through the middle compartment of the jugulari foramen. At the base of the skull it runs downwards, outwards, and backwards! between the occipital artery and the internal jugular vein, to pass under cover of; the sterno-mastoid muscle ; here it pierces the deeper fibres of the muscle and' communicates with a branch derived from the second cervical nerve. From the plexus so formed the sterno-mastoid is supplied. The nerve then emerges' at the posterior border of the muscle, crosses the floor of the posterior triangle ofj the neck obliquely, and passes under cover of the trapezius; on the deep surface I of that muscle the spinal accessory is joined by branches from the third and fourtti cervical nerves, and forms Avith them the subtrapezial plexus, from which the* trapezius is supplied. , TWELFTH OR HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE The hypoglossal nerve arises from an elongated column of nerve-cells whict! extends from the stride meduUares in the floor of the fourth ventricle downwards tc | the level of the lower end of the olivary body. This column contains nerve-cell^l of large size. It represents the neck of the anterior horn of the grey crescent ir! the spinal cord, and is continued into that structure below. In its lower part thd column is placed ventro-laterally to the central canal, but, as the central cana i expands into the floor of the fourth ventricle, the grey column is displaced laterally | and thus apparently occupies a more dorsal position. It corresponds to the arer described as the trigonum hypoglossi, and is separated from the ependyma of thd ventricle only by a thin layer of medullated fibres. From the cells embedded ir this grey column the nerve-fibres arise. These fibres pass in bundles which an directed ventrally and outwards, internal to the olivary nucleus, between the lattei j and the internal accessory olive. Finally they emerge in a row of from ten t(j twelve filaments in the furrow between the olivary and pyramidal bodies, consti j tuting the superficial origin of the hypoglossal nerve. I