BELATIONS OF THE LUNGS TO THE CHEST-WALLS 1139 l^s a similar point on the sternum lying opposite the articulation of the fourth jihondro-sternal joint. On the right side the line may be dropped as low as the fixth chondro-sternal joint; on the left (to show the jncisura cardiaca) a line should )e drawn sloping outwards from the fourth chondro-sternal articulation along he lower border of the fourth rib, across the fourth interspace, to a point about an nch and a half below the left nipple (male) and an inch to its inner side. This )oint, lying in the fifth space, marks the apex of the heart. The lower border of he lung will be marked on the right side by a line drawn from the sixth hondro-sternal articulation across the side of th6 chest down to the tenth thoracic ipine. The lower border of the left lung will follow a similar line, starting on a evelwith a similar joint (sixth chondro-sternal joint), but much farther out than on Ihe right side, i.e. in the fifth space, about three inches to the left of the middle ine.^ This margin of the lung descends about an inch and a half in deep nspiration, according to Godlee. The "position of the great fissure in each lun^ nay be ascertained approximately by drawing a Hne from the second thoracic spine 0 the sixth rib in the nipple line ; and the smaller fissure of the right lung extends Fig. G86.—Diagram of the Kelations of the Thoracic Viscera to the Walls of the Chest. (Bellamy.) Superior eul-de-sae of right lung---_^ RISHT AURICLE S-L RIGHT AURICULAR APPENDAGE uhS-^, Right aurieulo-ventrieular iLlJS—>; oriflee , ' \ \ Limit of diaphragm in com plete expiration Limit of the anterior and inferior border of right ' ^^-^^^ lung in complete expiration Limit of right lung in inspiration Limit of diaphragm in com- plete inspiration Limit of pleura Superior eul-de-sae of left lung .LEFT AURICLE ■Pulmonary oriflee •Left auriculo-ventricular oriflee -Oriflee of aorta .Limit of diaphragm in complete expiration "Limit of the anterior and infe- rior border of left lung in complete expiration -j-iimit of left lung in inspiration -ijimit of pleura L'om the middle of the foregoing to the junction of the fourth costal cartilage with lie sternum. It will be seen from the above that there is little lung behind the jianubrium. The connective tissue here between the lung margins contains up to aiberty the thymus, and, later, its remains. The pleura reaches much lower down Ipan the lung. Thus its lower margin reaches along the seventh rib cartilage near lie sternum ; in the axillary line it has reached the lower margin of the ninth rib ; irther back it reaches as low as the twelfth rib, or the eleventh thoracic spine. Thus may be opened in operations in the loin, e.g. on the kidney, or in removing the kelfth rib. Mr. Holden thus draws attention to this lower level of the pleura : Since the pleura lines the inside of the last rib, a musket-ball or other foreign body, )ose in the pleural sac and rolling on the diaphragm, might fall to the lowest art of the sac, which would be between the eleventh and twelfth ry^s. The ball light be extracted here. The chest might also be tapped here, but not with a •ocar, since a trocar would penetrate both layers of pleura, and go through the iaphragm into the abdomen. The operation should be done cautiously by an icision beginning about two inches from the spine, on the outer border of the rector spinas, on a level between the spines of the eleventh and twelfth thoracic 4 D 2