897 OPTIC NEBVE 3. In addition to its partial investment by the muscle-fascia, the eyeball has a special membrane enclosing its hinder two-thirds, usually called Tenon's capsule. This is a thin, transparent tissue, situated immediately beneath the muscle-fascia. It follows the curve of the sclerotic from the insertion of the recti to about 3 mm. from the optic nerve entrance, when it leaves the eyeball and blends with the posterior lamina of the muscle-fascia; the combined membrane may be traced backwards, enveloping the optic-nerve sheath loosely, approaching it as it nears the optic foramen, but never actually joining it. The interval between it and the nerve- sheath is called the supravaginal lymjjh sjMce. Tenon's capsule first comes into relation with the muscles at the point where they are left by their proper sheaths ; it there invests their tendons, forms a small serous bursa on the anterior surface of each, and adheres to the sclerotic in the form of a line running round the globe, joining the insertions of the four recti muscles. Between this line and the corneal border, the conjunctiva is separated from the sclerotic by the subconjunctival tissue, strengthened by a fine expansion of the muscle-fascia. The inner surface of the capsule is smooth, and is only connected with the sclerotic by a loose, wide-meshed areolar tissue. This interval between the sclerotic and capsule, known as Tenon's space, is a lymph cavity, and permits free move- ments of the eyeball within the capsule. Belatio7i of Tenon's Capsule to the Ohliqne Muscles.—The capsule surrounds the posterior third of the inferior oblique and its tendon, running along its ocular surface till it meets the fascial band coming from the inferior rectus (see above), and forming a serous bursa on the superficial surface of the oblique near its insertion. The tendon of the superior oblique for about its last five millimetres is invested solely by Tenon's capsule ; in front of this, as far as the trochlea, the tendon lies in a membranous tube derived from the muscle-fascia, the inner lining of which is smooth, and may be considered as a prolongation of Tenon's capsule. The Optic Nebve The part of this nerve with which we have here to do lies within the orbit, extending from the optic foramen to the eyeball. Its course is somewhat S-shaped; thus, on entering the orbit, it describes a curve, with its convexity down and out, and then a second slighter curve, convex inwards. Finally, it runs straight forwards to the globe, which it enters to the inner side of its posterior pole. Besides curving as just described, the nerve also rotates on its long axis, so that the surface which is below at the foramen becomes temporal before entering the eyeball. In its passage through the optic canal the nerve is surrounded by a pro- i longation of the meninges. The dura mater splits at the optic foramen, part i of it joining the periorbita, while the remainder continues to surround the I nerve loosely as its outer or dural sheath. The nerve is closely enveloped by I a vascular covering derived from the pia mater, named accordingly the pial I sheath. The space between these two sheaths, known as the intcrvaqinal space, is subdivided by a fine prolongation of the arachnoid (the arachnoidal sheath) into two parts, viz. an outer, narrow, subdurcU, and an inner, wider, subarachnoid [ space, communicating with the corresponding intracranial spaces. The arachnoidal sheath is connected with the sheath on each side of it by numerous fine processes which bridge across the intervening spaces. The pial sheath sends processes inwards, which form a framework separating the bundles of nerve-fibres; between the enclosed nerve-fibres and each mesh of this framework there is a narrow interval \ occupied by lymph. The nerve-fibres are medullated, but have no primitive sheath. About fifteen or twenty millimetres behind the globe the central vessels enter, piercing obliquely the lower outer quadrant of the nerve, and then run forward 3 M