828 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM position. The branch from the third nerve is the largest of the three, and occupies the deepest position; it distributes branches over the gluteus maximus as far as the great trochanter. The three nerves communicate with one another and also with the cutaneous branches from the posterior divisions of the two upper sacral nerves. The external branch of the fourth lumbar nerve is of small size and ends in the lower part of the erector spinse. The external branch of the fifth lumbar is distributed to the erector spinas and communicates with the first sacral nerve. SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES.—The posterior divisions of the upper four | sacral nerves escape from the neural canal by passing through the posterior sacral foramina ; the fifth sacral nerve passes between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve escapes through the termination of the neural canal. The upper three sacral nerves divide in the ordinary manner into internal and external branches, the lower two sacral and the coccygeal nerves remain undivided. The internal branches of the upper three sacral nerves are of small size, and are distributed to the multifidus spinse. The external branches unite with one another and with the external branch of the last lumbar nerve to form loops on the posterior surface of the sacrum. From these loops branches proceed to the poste- rior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they communicate to form a second series of loops, from whence two or three branches are given off. These branches pierce the gluteus maximus and come to the surface of that muscle in a line between the posterior superior spine of the ilium and the tip of the coccyx. They are distributed to the integument over the inner part of the gluteus maximus, and communicate, in their course through the superficial fascia, with the posterior branches of the lumbar nerves. The posterior divisions of the lower two sacral and of the coccygeal nerve unite with one another and with the posterior branch of the third sacral, and form loops from Avhence twigs pass to the integument over the lower end of the coccyx. ANTERIOE PEIMAEY DIVISIONS The anterior divisions of the spinal nerves are (with the two exceptions above mentioned) larger than the posterior divisions. In the cervical, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal regions they combine to form plexuses ; in the thoracic region each nerve takes for the most part an independent course. Each anterior division is connected by one or tw^o rami comniunicantes wdth the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. CERVICAL NERVES The upper four cervical nerves are of moderate size and unite with one another to form the cervical plexus. The anterior division of the first nerve passes out- wards and forwards under cover of the vertebral artery, lying in the groove on the posterior arch of the atlas. It then bends forwards, crossing to the inner side of the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, and then turns downwards in front of that process to form a loop with the second cervical nerve. In this course it crosses the deep surface of the rectus capitis lateralis. The anterior division of the second nerve runs outwmxls behind the superior articular process of the axis, • and passes behind and then to the outer side of the vertebral artery to reach the interval between the scalenus medius and the rectus capitis anticus major. The third and fourth nerves, after their exit from the intervertebral foramina, pass behind the vertebral artery and appear in the interspace between the rectus capitis anticus major and the scalenus medius.