994 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION j The gastro-splenic omentum connects the left extremity of the stomach with | It the spleen, continuing the layers of peritonemn which enclose the stomach. ' 0 The gastro-phrenic and phreno-colic ligaments.—As the peritoneum passes I iil from the diaphragm to the stomach it forms a small fold just to the left of the 'J oesophagus. This is the gastro-phrenic ligament. A stout fold of the membrane I Itl also extends from the diaphragm (opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs) to the in splenic flexure of the colon, and is known as the phreno-colic or costo-colic ligament. : 0 Subperitoneal connective tissue.—An elaborate account of this tissue has been : written by Mr. Anderson and Mr. Makins. According to these observers, ' the i fn subperitoneal and subpleural fasciae are to be regarded as a portion of a wide i , system of mesoblastic connective tissue which surrounds the great vessels of the trunk, accompanying these branches from origin to termination, and extending ! i mainly in the form of perivascular sheaths to all parts of the body.' | ' The subperitoneal segment of the tissue they divide into two portions: a ' parietal layer, closely connected to the wall of the cavity, and visceral lamina which accompany the branches of the aorta to their distribution. The imrietal layer is developed chiefly in front of the vertebral column, ' from ■ which point it may be traced as a broad expansion between, and intimately connected with, the peritoneum on the one hand, and the transversalis, diaphragmatic, iliac, obturator, and recto-vesical fascia on the other.' It forms a sheath for the large m vessels, and is continuous with the vessels outside the abdomen. \ S The visceral j^ortioii follows the course of the branches of the aorta, and greatly assists in fixing certain viscera, such as the liver, pancreas, etc., becoming continuous with their connective tissue tunic. This tissue can be seen passing between the layers of peritoneum to those organs which are connected to the abdo- minal wall by duplicatures of peritoneum. For an account of the evolution of the peritoneum, and an explanation of its arrangement in the human body, the student is referred to page 1027. i u THE ABDOMEN i The abdomen properly consists of that part of the body cavity situated between ■ the diaphragm and the pelvis. It is bounded above by the diaphragm; below, H by the brim of the true pelvis ; behind, by the vertebral column, diaphragm, ■ quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, and by the posterior portions of the ilia. H At the sides it is limited by the anterior parts of the ilia and the hinder segments H of the muscles which compose the anterior abdominal wall, viz. the transversalis, H internal oblique, and external oblique. In front, besides these muscles, there are jB^' the t^vo recti and pyramidales muscles. External to the peritoneum the abdomen W''''^' is lined by a special layer of fascia. The abdomen is the largest serous cavity in the body. Its serous membrane isBj^'l the peritoneum, which, through its various complicated arrangements, is always W% (with one unimportant exception) a closed sac, so that the viscera are in reality WrM situated outside the enclosure. The principal viscera found in the abdomen are those connected wuth digestion and the excretion of urine. jH^ffifii On freely laying open an abdomen from the front, the general form of the space B is seen to be an irregular hexagon, the sides of which are formed as follows—the H upper two by the margins of the costal cartilages with the ensiform cartilage M between ; the two lateral sides by the edges of the lateral boundary ; and the two H. lower by the t^vo ligaments of Poupart w^hich meet at the pubes. ''^^JB^