THE COMMON CABOTID 505 the innominate behind the stenio-clavicular joint; on the left side from the arch of the aorta a httle to the left of the innominate artery, and on a somewhat posterior plane to that vessel (fig. 321). The portion of the left common carotid artery which extends from the arch of the aorta to the level of the sterno-clavicular irticulation hes deeply in the chest, and requires a separate description ; but above the level of the sterno-clavicular joint the relations of the right and left carotids are practically the same, and are given under the account of the right bommon carotid. THORACIC PORTION OF THE LEFT COMMON CAROTID ARTERY j Within the thorax the left common carotid is deeply placed behind the first bone bf the sternum, and is overlapped by the left lung and pleura. It arises from the aiiddle of the transverse portion of the aortic arch, close to the left side of the nnominate artery, and a little posterior to that vessel, and ascends obliquely in front 3f the trachea to the left sterno-clavicular articulation, above which its relations ire similar to those of the right common carotid. Fig. 328.—Scheme of the Eelations of the Left Common Carotid and Left Subclavian Arteries within the Thorax. I, just above origin' II, just below level of sterno-clavicular joint. I THORACIC DUCT Left common carotid artery Innominate artery CARDIAC NERVES Right innominate vein (ESOPHAGUS RECURRENT LARYNGEAL NERVE Inferior thyi-oid veins j Innominate artery REMAINS OF THYMUS GLAND 5 TE R M U M 11 Left subclavian artery LEFT PNEUMOGASTRIG NERVE Left innominate vein Inferior thyroid veins REMAINS OF THYMUS GLAND THORACIC DUCT Left subclavian artery LUNG AND PLEURA LEFT PNEUMO- GASTRIG NERVE Left common carotid artery Left innominate vein Sterno-hyoid and bterno-tliyroid muscles Relations.—In front, but at some Httle distance, are the manubrium and he origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles ; whilst in contact Vith it are the remains of the thymus gland, and the loose connective tissue and at of the superior mediastinum. Crossing its root is the left innominate vem.^ Behind, it lies successively upon the trachea, the oesophagus (which here mclmes little to the left), the thoracic duct, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve.