vi PBEFACE This plan was decided upon at a conference of all the Authors and one of the artists. It consists in printing the descriptions in different types at the end of the pointers. Thus it will be found that muscles, fasciae, and ligaments are in one kind of type ; arteries, veins, and lymphatics in another ; bones in a third; and nerve-structures in a fourth. The names of special organs—such as the liver, lungs, etc.—are printed in the same type as the bones, so as to avoid too great a variety of lettering. Several of the illustrations are repeated in different parts of the book, with the object of sparing the reader the trouble of referring from one section to another when reference is made in the letterpress to such figures. As much uniformity as possible has been observed in the size and gen- eral style of the drawings; but exceptions will be found in the section on Surgical and Topographical Anatomy, for which many of the illustrations have been borrowed from another work published by Messrs. J. and A. Churchill, namely, Bellamy's ' Surgical Anatomy.' I have to acknowledge with grateful thanks the assistance I have received from Mr. Goedon Brodie, who made several dissections from which drawings were taken ; from Mr. J. Bland Sutton and Mr. Frank Steele in reading over proof-sheets; from Mr. Burghard for the care with which he has drawn up the Index and Tables of Contents ; and from all the artists named on the title-page. Mr. Berjeau and Mr. Balcomb have drawn a very large proportion of the figures ; and, with Mr. Smit and Mr. Parker, have shown a degree of interest in, and given an amount of time and trouble to the illustrations for which they merit the fullest recognition. The beautiful anatomical dissections in the Hunterian Museum which have been, by permission, copied for this Treatise, are from the hand of Mr. William Pearson, to whose great skill in dissecting I have much pleasure in referring. Too much praise ca^nnot be given to all engaged in the actual printing of the book for the painstaking care they have devoted to it; especially to the difficult and precise work of properly * registering' and printing the coloured illustrations. I need only say, in conclusion, that I shall not consider my prolonged and laborious task has been in vain if it be found that the Treatise adequately meets the requirements of Students, for whom it is written. HENEY MORRIS. 8 Cavendish Square : January 1893.