642 THE VEINS Chief Variations in the Superior Vena Cava and Innominate Veins The variations in the vena cava and innominate veins depend upon certain abnormali- ties in the development of the great vems from the ducts of Cuvier and the primitive jugular veins, and can here receive only a brief mention. They may be classified as follows :— (1) Variations due to the Persistence of the Left Duct of Cuvier (a) The left subclavian may join the left internal jugular vem to form a trunk which is continued almost vertically downwards over the arch of the aorta in fi'ont of the root of the left lung, to open into the coronary sinus of the heart. This variety is known as the persistent left superior vena cava, and is the normal arrangement of the great anterior veins in some animals. The rudiments of this vein are fomid in Man in the so-called oblique vem of Marshall, w4iich stretches from the coronary sinus tln-ough the vestigial fold of the pericardium, and is often continued as a fine fibrous cord to the superior inter- costal vem. When the so-called left superior vena cava is present, the upper left azygos vein (the remains of the left primitive cardinal vein) may open into it by arching over the root of the left Kmg in a way similar to that in which the greater azygos (the right primitive cardinal vein) opens into the superior vena cava over the root of the right lung. The normal left innominate vein may be absent, or may be quite small or rudimentary, the result of the non-development, or only partial development, of a transverse branch (which becomes the left innominate) when the left part of the smus venosus and the left duct of Cm-ier are transformed mto the coronary sinus, the oblique vein of Marshall, and the upper portion of the left superior intercostal vem. (6) A vein may run from the left mnominate, or left superior mtercostal vein, through the vestigial fold of the pericardium to the coronary sinus, the left innominate vein being itself normal. This abnormalit}' is similar in kind, but minor in degree, to the former, described mider {a). (2) Variations due to Persistence of the Left and Supirression of the Bight Duct of Cuvier (a) The right innominate vein may cross the arch of the aorta to join a vertical left innominate vein, and thus form a left superior vena cava, the normal right superior cava being absent. The arrangement of the azygos veins imder this condition may be reversed, there being a left vena azygos major opening over the root of the left Imig into the left superior cava, and an upper and lower right azygos vein arranged after the manner of the normal left azygos vems. This arrangement of the veins may occiu" independently of any general transposition of the viscera. (6) There are many other varieties, depending upon abnormalities in the normal development of the great veins from the Guvierian ducts and from the primitive jugular and cardmal veins ; but these cannot be discussed here. THE AZYGOS VEINS \ The azygos veins (fig. 382) are thi^ee in number. They collect the blood ! returned from the eleven intercostal spaces on the right side, and from the seven or eight lower intercostal spaces on the left side. They lie on each side of the front of the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae, and establish a communication between the superior and inferior venae cavae through the ascending lumbar veins. The vena azygos major begins in the abdomen, w^here it may be looked upon as a continuation upwards of the ascending lumbar vein (page 671). It passes 1 through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, runs up through the posterior i mediastinum on the right side of the front of the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae as | high as the fom^th thoracic vertebra ; then curves forwards over the root of the right | lung, and opens into the superior vena cava immediately before the latter pierces \ the pericardium. I Relations.—(1) In the abdomen, the vena azygos major Hes to the right of ' the aorta and thoracic duct, under cover of the right crus of the diaphragm, upoi] the first, sometimes upon the second, lumbar vertebra. At this spot it receives; the right subcostal vein, and is continued below into the ascending lumbar vein: |