MESIAL AND TENTORIAL SURFACES OF HEMISPHERE 731 pass from this fissure deserve special mention as, although not constantly present, they form useful lines of demarcation. One of these, the sulcus paracentralis, passes upwards between the paracentral and the marginal convolutions. Another, the sulcus subparietalis, passes backwards from the bend of the main fissure and separates the praecuneus from the gyrus fornicatus. The parieto-occipital fissure commences at the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus, and passes at first backwards and upwards, and then almost vertically upwards to reach the margin of the hemisphere, where it bends outwards and ends as the external parieto-occipital fissure. The calcarine fissure commences by a bifid extremity near the occipital pole, and passes horizontally forwards with a slightly curved course to become confluent with the parieto-occipital fissure. From what has been said, it follows that the internal parieto-occipital and calcarine fissures form by their union a -<-shaped figure. The hinder part of the stem of the -< and the fore part of the calcarine fissm-e produce an elevation within the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle known as the hippocampus minor. It has been recently shown that in its development the stem of the < may belong to the parieto-occipital fissure alone, or to the calcarine alone, or may be common to both. (Cunningham.) The callosal fissure is a deep furrow which follows the curve of the corpus callosum, being placed between that body and the gyrus fornicatus. It commences below the rostrum and terminates behind the splenium, where it becomes continuous with the dentate fissure. The dentate or hippoeampal fissure extends from the splenium of the corpus callosum to the hooked extremity (uncus) of the uncinate gyrus. It produces an elevation in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, which is termed the hippocampus major. The collateral fissure is common to the occipital and temporal lobes. It passes from a point on the under surface of the temporal lobe, near its apex, to the occipital pole of the hemisphere. The reverse of this fissure appears as an elevation (the eminentia coUateralis) in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. The following convolutions appear on the mesial and tentorial surfaces :— The marginal convolution commences below the rostrum of the corpus callosum and occupies the area of the mesial surface between the calloso-marginal fissure and the margin of the hemisphere as far as the paracentral sulcus. The latter separates it from the paracentral lobule. It is continuous around the margin of the hemi- sphere with the olfactory, the internal orbital, and the superior frontal convolutions. It is marked by tertiary fissures along its whole course, in particular by a fissure which runs for some distance parallel to the calloso-marginal sulcus. The paracentral lobule is bounded in front by the paracentral sulcus; below and behind by the calloso-marginal fissure. It is continuous around the margin of the hemisphere with the ascending frontal and ascending parietal convolutions; but as it is connected with the former by a much broader band than with the latter, it is referred to the frontal lobe. (Broca.) When the typical backward turn of the upper extremity of the fissure of Kolando is present, it hooks backwards into the forward bend formed by the upper extremity of the calloso-marginal fissure, and thus the frontal and parietal lobes are only connected by a narrow isthmus between the two fissures. The gyrus fornicatus, or gyrus cinguli, commences between the rostrum of the corpus callosum and the extremity of the marginal convolution, and, pursuing an arched course parallel to the corpus callosum, ends in a narrow convo- lution, the isthmus, which connects it to the uncinate gyrus. It is placed between the calloso-marginal and callosal fissures, and is thus clearly marked off from adjacent structures in the greater part of its extent, but is often very