THE HUMERUS 129 The lower extremity of the humerus is flattened, and presents from the ulnar to the radial side the following parts :—a prominent process, the ulnar (internal) condyle, from which the pronator radii teres arises, and to the lower part of which the internal lateral ligament is attached. From this ligament the flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor suhlimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles arise. Posteriorly the condyle forms with the trochlea a groove traversed by the ulnar nerve. External to the condyle there is the inferior articular surface, subdivided by a low ridge into the trochlea and the capitellum. The trochlea is, in shape, like the section of a pulley wheel; the ulnar extends much lower than the radial edge ; the articular surface is sharply indicated anteriorly and posteriorly. The trochlea fits into the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Above the trochlea on the anterior surface is the rounded coronoid fossa, which receives the coronoid process of the ulna when the forearm is flexed. On the posterior aspect there is the olecranon fossa, for the reception of the anterior edge of the olecranon in extension of the forearm. These fossse in most humeri are separated by a thin translucent disc of bone, sometimes merely by fibrous tissue, so that in macerated bones a perforation, the supratrochlear foramen, exists. The radial head or capitellum is received by the depression on the summit of the radius ; it is limited to the anterior and lower surface of the humerus. Above, it terminates in a shallow fossa, which receives the edge of the radius in flexion. The ridge between the trochlea and the capitellum corresponds to the interval between the ulna and radius; the shallow groove on the outer side of the ridge receives the inner margin of the head of the radius. External to the capitellum is the external or radial condyle. It is less prominent than the ulnar condyle, and gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the elbow, and to a tendon frpm which five extensor muscles arise—viz. extensores oarpi radialis brevior, digitorum communis, minimi digiti, carpi ulnaris, and the stqnnator brevis. On the posterior aspect this condyle extends to the edge of the trochlea, and gives origin to the anconeus. Muscles.—The humerus affords attachment for the following muscles :— Supraspinatus. Flexor carpi radialis. Infraspinatus. Palmaris longus. Teres major. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Teres minor. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Subscapularis. • Supinator longus. Deltoid. Extensor carpi radialis longior. Pectoralis major. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Coraco-brachialis. Extensor digitorum communis. Latissimus dorsi. Extensor minimi digiti. Biceps (occasionally). Extensor carpi ulnaris. Brachialis anticus. Supinator brevis. Triceps. Anconeus. Pronator radii teres. Ligaments.—To the upper extremity of the humerus the following ligaments are attached :— Capsular. Gleno-humeral. Coraco-humeral. Transverse humeral. To the lower extremity :— Internal lateral ligament ] External lateral ligament Anterior ligament Posterior ligament of the elbow joint. K