THE PALMAB FASCIA 851 Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the venth cervical nerve), by a branch from the posterior interosseous division of the usculo-spiral nerve which enters the upper part of the muscle near the radial rder of its superficial aspect. Action.—It assists the extensor communis digitorum in (1) extending the index ger, and especially its first phalanx. At the same time, on account of its rection, it will (2) adduct the index finger, while the action of the extensor mmunis digitorum upon this finger is that of extension combined with abduction, will then assist feebly in (3) the extension of the wrist. Relations.— Superficially, the extensor communis digitorum, the extensor inimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, and posterior annular ligament. Deeply, e dorsal interosseous muscle of the second space, the wrist, and some carpal ints. Variations.—The extensor indicis may give slips to the extensor longiis poUieis and to e middle finger. It may receive slips from the posterior carpal ligaments or the bases of e metacarpal bones, and these slips may be inserted into several digits, so as to form an tensor brevis digitormii manus. THE FASCIA OF THE HAND The dorsal fascia is a thin layer, continuous with the posterior annular ligament, d, like it, composed chiefly of transverse fibres. It covers the extensor tendons, d connects them together upon the back of the hand ; and upon the first phalanges blends with the aponeuroses which succeed to the tendons. Between the fingers C^ips down to join the superficial transverse ligament which forms the web by hich the bases of the fingers are connected. A deeper layer of the dorsal fascia covers the back of the dorsal interossei, and attached to the back of the metacarpal bones. THE PALMAR FASCIA The palmar fascia takes the place of the deep fascia in the palm of the hand, d is for the most part formed by the expansion of the tendon of the palmaris ngus. It is also continuous with the lower margin of the anterior annular liga- ent; it may be divided into a central and two lateral portions. The central division, hich is by far the strongest, is of a triangular shape, the apex being continuous 'th the tendon of the palmaris longus, and also attached to the lower border of e anterior annular ligament; the base corresponding to the heads of the four ner metacarpal bones. It consists in front of longitudinally arranged bundles of brous tissue derived from the palmaris longus tendon, and behind of transverse bres which continue those of the annular ligament. Below, the fascia divides into 'ur processes which join the ligamenta vaginalia of the finger tendons. Each of "ese four processes forms a bridge across the tendons, and is inserted, at the sides i the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, into the lateral and the deep transverse ligaments, his strong central portion of the palmar fascia is closely connected upon its anterior "face with the skin by fibrous septa, which form small compartments in which re lodged pellets of the subcutaneous fat. Upon its posterior surface it is smooth nd in contact with the synovial membrane of the great palmar bursa above, and f the thecas below. Between its four processes there are three spaces left through hich the digital nerves and arteries emerge. These are bridged over by transverse bres which connect the processes, and which form the superficial transverse gaments lying in the webs between the fingers.