THE FEMALE BEPBODUCTIVE OBGANS 1084 i the peritoneum of the anterior wall of the pouch of Douglas, and at the sides i is connected with the broad ligament, in which lie the uterine vessels and th ureter, the latter at a distance of a little over half an inch. The zone of vagina attachment is obliquely set, extending higher behind than in front, and has depth of about one-fifth of an inch. The intravaginal zone, or os uteri, i covered with mucous membrane continuous with that of the vagina. It present the external aperture of the uterine cavity, usually in the form of a transvers fissure, about a quarter of an inch in length, bounded by two prominent labit anterior and posterior, both of which are in contact with the posterior wall of th vagina. The anterior lip is the thicker, the shorter, and the lower; the posteric lip is longer on account of the greater height of the posterior vaginal fornix. Afte childbirth the labia usually become notched and irregular. Dimensions.—The size of the uterus varies within wide limits. Its averag length in the nulliparous adult is about three inches, and its greatest breadth aboi an inch and a half, but in women who have borne children these dimensioi] are about one-fifth greater. Its weight averages seven drachms in nullipara, nii: to twelve drachms in multipara. Direction.—The direction of the uterine axis is undoubtedly variable, and it : probable that observations made after death are open to misinterpretation. ] appears to coincide under ordinary circumstances with the long axis of the bod;| both in the recumbent and erect postures, but may be inclined forwards to tfc: extent of 15° or 20° when the bladder is empty, or may be deflected to the rigl w^hen the rectum is full. Variations in form according to age.—In young children the body is bv slightly developed in proportion to the cervix, and the prominence of the intr; vaginal segment is relatively great. In the virgin uterus of a young adult tl length is about equally divided betiveen body and cervix, but after childbirth ti l body never returns to its original size, and its length when involution is comple j is nearly double that of the neck. In old age the entire organ undergoes atrophy i The cavity of the uterus is reduced to a fissure by the antero-posterior flattenii of the walls. It is divisible into two segments, that of the body and that of tl neck. The shape of the cavity of the body is that of a triangle with concave sid (in the virgin) and three open angles. At the two superior angles are the orific of the oviducts, and the lower angle presents the os uteri internum or apertu of communication with the neck. The walls are smooth, and moistened wit mucus. I The cavity of the neck is fusiform, terminating in the os internum above, ar I in the os externum below. The superior opening is circular, the inferior usual ! in the form of a transverse fissure. The mucous lining of the anterior and posteri' walls presents ridges which bear some resemblance to those of the vagina, but a dependent upon the arrangement of the innermost layers of the muscular wall, ai not upon a simple plication of the mucous membrane. The whole length of ea( wall is traversed by a longitudinal nearly median ridge or stem, from which pa a number of branches in an outward and slightly upward direction. T] figure formed by these folds is designated by the name of arbor vitcB uterina ; it ■ most marked in the young, and tends to effacement after repeated parturitior j The cavity usually contains a plug of alkaline mucus. ] Structure.—The uterus is composed of three coats—an outer sero-fibrous, | middle muscular, and an inner mucous. The serous membrane covers the upp j half or two-thirds of the anterior surface, the whole of the supravaginal portion j the posterior surface, and the summit. The lower portion of the anterior wall | separated from the bladder by cellular tissue continuous with the subperitonej fascia, and a thin layer of the same structure may be demonstrated over the lowj part of the posterior surface and laterally into the base of the broad ligament (j I i