PIA MATEB—LYMPHATICS OF BBAIN 111 immediately above the obex (page 758). The two others (foramina of Key and Eetzius) are at the extremities of the recessus laterales of the fom^th ventricle, behind the upper roots of the giosso-pharyngeal nerves. Another large space, the cisterna pontis, is continued from the anterior subarachnoid space of the cord, and extends forwards as far as the commencement of the great longitudinal fissure, and laterally to the inner margins of the temporo-sphenoidal lobes. The basilar artery and the circle of Willis are placed in this space. The cisterna pontis communicates freely around the medulla oblongata with the cisterna magna—thus the medulla is encircled by a wide subarachnoid space. A large space is also to be found between the lower edge of the falx cerebri (where the arachnoid passes across from one cerebral hemisphere to the other) and the upper surface of the corpus callosum. This space contains the trunks and larger branches of the anterior cerebral arteries. Another considerable space exists in the fissure of Sylvius, and in this the middle cerebral artery ramifies. Thus, with the exception of the cisterna magna, all these spaces serve for the accommodation of large arteries. There is also a space between the corpora quadri- gemina and the anterior extremity of the superior vermiform process of the cere- bellum, and through this the veins of Galen pass to terminate in the straight sinus. The PIA MATER is a delicate vascular membrane which closely invests the nervous substance. It follows accurately the contour of the surface of the brain, dipping into all the fissures of the cerebrum and cerebellum—in the smaller sulci of the latter, however, a double layer cannot be distinctly made out. Processes or folds of this membrane project into some of the ventricles of the brain, and are separated from the ventricular cavities only by a layer of epithelium. These folds form the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses, which will be described with the anatomy of the ventricles. The blood-vessels, which divide freely in the subarachnoid tissue, subdivide into the pia mater, forming by their inosculations fine networks from which innumerable minute vessels proceed to penetrate the nervous substance. Lymphatics of the Beain and Spinal Coed The lymphatics of the brain and spinal cord are peculiar, inasmuch as they open into the subarachnoid space, and are only indirectly connected with the general lymphatic and venous systems. The communications with the venous system are effected by the Pacchio- nian bodies. The lymphatics of the peripheral nerves are in the form of tubular spaces placed between the lamellae of the perinem-al sheaths. These tubular channels open into the subdural and subarachnoid spaces. The subdural space is a very narrow interval between the dura mater and arachnoid (page 715). It normallj^ contains only sufficient fluid to moisten its sm-faces. It is in commimication with the lymphatics of the neck and also of the back and loins. It also commimicates with the perineural spaces around the nerves, and with the lymph spaces which smTound the olfactory, optic, and auditory nerves. It sends prolongations around the Pacchionian bodies. It does not communicate with the subarachnoid space. The subarachnoid space contains the greater part of the cerebro-spinal fluid, the fluid occupy- ing the meshes of the subarachnoid tissue. The lymphatics of the brain and cord and also the perineural spaces of the nerves open into this space. It is also in commimication with the ventricular system of the brain by means of the foramen of Majendie and the foramina of Key and Eetzius. Slit-like commmiications between the subarachnoid space and the descending horn of the lateral ventricle have also been described (Merkel and Mierzejewsky). It also commmiicates with the perilymph spaces of the internal ear and with the lymphatics of the mucous membrane of the nose. It sends prolongations aroimd the optic and auditory nerves. The lymphatic vessels of the brain and cord surroimd the arteries, and are hence caUed perivascular lymphatics. As each artery dips into the nervous substance it carries with it a tubular process of the pia mater. This tubular process is lined by endothelial cells and a similar layer covers the coat of the artery. In this manner the lymph-space is bounded. The perivascular lymphatic follows the artery as far as its capillary ramifications. There is a lymph-space between the two layers of the spinal pia mater. Ljanph-spaces between the outer and middle coats of the cerebral arteries (Virchow-Eobin space) and others