558 THE ABTEBIES part enter its substance. The circumflex nerve and two venae comites run with it It anastomoses with the anterior circumflex, the arteries on the acromion, and th( superior profunda artery. In addition to the leash of vessels to the deltoid, it gives off the following small branches :—{a) nutrient, to the greater tuberosity of the humerus ; [h) articular to the back of the shoulder joint; (c) acromial, to the plexus on the acromion ; and {d) muscular, to the teres minor and long and short heads of the triceps. One oi more of these branches to the triceps (the tricipital) descend either between the outer and long head, or in the substance of that muscle to anastomose with'an Fig. 349.—The Anastomoses about the Scapula. Subscapular branch Supraspinous branch \ Posterior scapular arteru Supraspinous branch Subscapular branch suprascapular artery Acromial branch of acromto- thoracic Acromial rete Subscapular branch of suprascapular artery Infraspinous hranch Subft apular branch 0/ axillary artery Dorsal scapular hranch of subscapular Infrascapular branch of dorsal scapular Continuation of sub- scapular artery Branch of intercostal artery Continuation of posterior scapuJar artery ascending branch from the superior profunda artery. It is by means of this anastomosis that the collateral circulation is chiefly carried on when the axillary or the brachial artery is tied between the origins of the posterior circumflex and superior profunda arteries (fig. 330). The chief variations in the posterior circumflex are :—{a) It may arise with the sub- scapular artery as a common trunk. (6) It may come off from the brachial, and run up behind the teres major to the quadrilateral space, (c) It ma,y give off the inferior pro- funda, the anterior circumflex, or the dorsal scapular, (d) It may be double, {e) It may form one of the vessels arising from a trunk common to several branches of the axillary and brachial arteries. (See Variations in the Axillary Artery, page 553.)