SECTION VIII CHE ORGANS OF DIGESTION THE OEGANS ABOVE THE DIAPHEAGM By AETHUR HENSMAN, F.E.C.S. LECTURER ON ANATOMY AT THS MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL MEDICAL COLLEGE ; AJs^D SURGEON TO THE THROAT AND EAR DEPARTMENT OF THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL, THE MOUTH THE mouth is the cavity at the commencement of the ahmentary canal which contains the organs of taste and mastication and the greater part of those of speech. It communicates with the exterior through a transverse orifice (the buccal orifice) and with the pharynx through the fauces. It is bounded anteriorly and laterally by the teeth and alveolar arches ; external to which is a second cavity, often described as the vestibule of the mouth, which is enclosed by the lips and cheeks. Its roof is formed by the hard palate, its floor by the tongue, with the mucous membrane reflected from it to the inner surface of the gums over the sublingual glands and the Whartonian ducts ; and posteriorly it opens into the fauces. It is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the pharynx, and at the outer margin of the lips is continuous with the skin. The buccal orifice is a horizontal slit, the extremities or ' angles ' of which are jopposite the first bicuspid teeth. The orifice is bounded by the upper and lower lips, jof which the former is distinguished by a median tubercle, the remains of the free extremity of the fronto-nasal process. The lips are covered by a dry mucous Imembrane, bright red in colour, and extremely sensitive, containing large numbers jof vascular papillfe, in many of which are nerve-terminations resembling touch- jcorpuscles. Near to the junction of the skin and mucous membrane are numerous sebaceous follicles, but these are devoid of hair-bulbs. The substance of the lips consists of the orbicularis oris and a quantity of areolar tissue in which are embedded the coronary vessels, lymphatics, and small branches of the infraorbital and mental nerves. Around the orifice of the mouth on its inner aspect, and placed beneath the mucous membrane, are a number of small ilobulated glands known as the ' labial glands.' The cheeks consist of the buccinator muscle, covered externally, first by a stratum of subcutaneous fat, then by the dermal muscles, zygomatici and risorius, and lastly by the skin. They are lined with mucous membrane, which contains numerous buccal glands similar to, but smaller than, the labial glands ; and about five of larger size, which, opening opposite to the last molar teeth, are known as the molar glands. Between the integument and the mucous membrane, besides muscles, areolar tissue, vessels, and nerves, there is in each cheek a large quantity of fat, which gives 3 e2