BEAN CHE S OF THE SACBAL BLEXUS 857 communicate with the external saphenous nerve. In its course clown the thigh it gives off numerous branches, which pierce the fascia lata to supply the skin covering the back of the thigh and the popliteal space. At the lower border of the gluteus maximus it gives off' (a) reflected branches, and (b) a large branch termed the long pudendal nerve. (a) The reflected branches, three or four in number, wind round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and, having pierced the deep fascia, supply the integument covering the lower and outer part of that muscle. (b) The long pudendal nerve, or nerve of Soemmerring, winds round the origin of the hamstring muscles, just below the ischial tuberosity, giving twigs to the integument on the inner and upper part of the thigh, and then curves upwards and forwards towards the external genitals. Having pierced Colles's fascia, it Fig. 467.—A Dissection of the Nerves in the Gluteal Eegion. (The gluteus maximus and gluteus medius have been divided near their insertions, and thrown upwards.) Sciatic artery INFERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE- Gluteal artery ^ 1,1 ^v^r> Gluteus maximus BRANCH TO GLUTEUS MAXIMUS PUDIC NERVE iteus medius Great saero-seiatie ligament \_dici Comes nervi ischia- Gemellus inferior TUBEROSITY OF SCHIUM LONG UDENDAL Adductor magnus GT. SCIATIC NER VE SMALL SCI A TIC NER VE Gluteus maximus communicates with the superficial perineeal nerves, and ends in the integument of the scrotum. In the female it is distributed in a similar manner to the labium majus. 7. The nerve to the obturator internns arises from the second and third nerves, and is often united in a plexiform manner with the pudic. It passes through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the pyriformis, and crosses the base of the ischial spine, being placed on the outer side of the pudic vessels. Having furnished a twig to the superior gemellus, it enters the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen, and ends in the obturator internus. TERMINAL BEANCHES.—1. The pudic nerve arises by three roots from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves, and escapes from the pelvis by passing through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the pyriformis. It then crosses the posterior surface of the small sacro-sciatic ligament, near the attachment of that ligament to the spine of the ischium, and to the inner side of the pudic vessels. It then accompanies the pudic vessels through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, and enters a