THE VEBTEBB^ 21 A typical vertebra arises from three primary and numerous secondary centres. The primary centres appear during the sixth week of embryonic Ufe. In the thoracic region the nucleus for the body is first seen, but in the cervical region the lateral centres make their appearance somewhat earlier. The nucleus for the body is deposited around the centre, and quickly becomes bilobed. This bilobed, or dumb-bell, shape is often so pronounced as to give rise to the appearance of two distinct nuclei. Sometimes the nucleus is double, and remains separate throughout life, the vertebra being divided by a vertical fissure (fig. 21). The bifid character of the nucleus of the vertebral body is further emphasised by the occasional Fig. 22.—a Vertebra at Birth. LATERAL MASS NEURO-CENTRAL SUTURE CENTRUM OR BODY occurrence of half-vertebrae. The lateral centres are deposited near the bases of the superior articular processes, and give rise to the pedicles, laminae, articular processes, and a large part of the transverse and spinous processes. At birth a vertebra consists of three parts—a body and two lateral masses connected by hyaline cartilage. The line of union of the lateral masses with the bodies is known as the neuro-central suture (fig. 22), and this is not obliterated for several years after birth. An examination of a thoracic vertebra at the fifth year will show that a portion of the body of each vertebra is derived from the lateral masses, and that the demi-facets for the rib-heads are situated behind the neuro- central suture, and therefore belong to the pedicles. During the early years growth progresses rapidly, and at puberty the secondary Fig. 23.—Lumbar Vertebra at the Eighteenth Year with Secondary Centres, epiphysial plate or disc mammillary tubercle transverse process spinous process centres make their appearance in the cartilaginous tips of the transverse and spinous processes. During the seventeenth year a meniscus of bone forms around the margins of the superior and inferior surfaces of the centra. These are the epiphysial discs ; they are thickest at the periphery, and gradually become thin towards the central perforation. By the twenty-fifth year the various secondary nuclei have coalesced with the main bone, and the vertebra is then complete. In several vertebrae the mode of ossification deviates from the account given above, and requires separate consideration. The atlas.—This bone has three primary centres—one for each lateral mass