487 ABNOBMAL MUSCLES Insertion.—The front of the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of 16 fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. Upper oblique portion:— Origin.—The front of the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lird, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae. Insertion.—The under surface and front of one side of the anterior tubercle i atlas. Structure.—All three portions arise by short tendons, then become fleshy, and te inserted by short tendons, with the exception of the superior oblique portion, [hich has a fleshy attachment to the tubercle of the atlas. Nerve-supply.—The anterior branches from the cervical nerves soon after their inergence. Action.—To flex the neck; and also by its oblique portions slightly to rotate id laterally flex it. Relations.—In front, the pharynx, oesophagus, great vessels of the neck, the liferior thyroid artery, the sympathetic cord, the pneumogastric nerve, and the ;current laryngeal nerve; behind, the vertebral column, and, under cover of le lower oblique portion, the vertebral artery. ABNORMAL MUSCLES By J. BLAND SUTTON, P.E.C.S. ASSISTANT SURGEON TO AND LECTURER ON MORPHOLOGY AND COMPARATIVE ANATOMY AT THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL. i The alDductor ossis metatarsi quinti arises from the outer tubercle of the calcanemn. j It is inserted into the tuberosity at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The origin id insertion are marked in fig. 169. It is present in two out of every three subjects, and hen not represented by muscle fibres its place is occupied by a band of fibrous tissue. The anomalus arises from the nasal process of the maxilla beneath the levator lahii iperioris alceqiLe nasi. It is inserted into the maxilla close to the origiii of the com- 'issor naris. Azygos pharyngis.—This muscle arises from the pharyngeal tubercle on the under |rface of the body of the occipital bone. j It is inserted into the raphe of the pharynx superficial to the insertion of the superior id middle constrictor muscles. It may blend with the ascending fibres of the middle nstrictor. It is often represented by a fibrous band. [For figure, see Macalister, Proc. oyal Irish Academy, vol. ix.] ; The cleido-occipitalis arises from the clavicle posterior to the sterno-mastoid. It runs )wards parallel with the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid to be inserted into the perior nuchal line of the occipital bone anterior to the origin of the trapezius. [Perrin ; good figure in Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. v. p. 253.] The cleido-hyoid arises from the clavicle near the outer border of the sterno-hyoid. It is inserted into the body of the hyoid superficial to the sterno-hyoid. The costo-fascialis is a muscular slip given off from the outer border of the sterno- yroid near its origin. It is inserted into the sheath of the carotid vessels, and sometimes reaches as high the level of the thyroid cartilage. The chondro-epitrochlearis arises from the cartilages of one or two ribs (usually the venth), or from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. It is inserted into the fascia on the inner side of the arm, or into the intermuscular ptum, and sometimes into the internal condyle of the humerus. [For figure, see Perrin, mm. of Anat. and Phys. vol. v. plate ix.] The curvator coccygis arises from the anterior surface of the fifth piece of the sacrum. It is inserted into the anterior surface of the coccyx. [For figure, see M. Watson, \mrn. of Anat. a?id Phys. vol. xiv. p. 407.]