MIDDLE EAB 911 The circumference of the membrane is lodged in the groove of the tympanic ring. Above and in front where the ring is wanting there is a slight recess known as the notch of Eivini, and here the membrane is extended outwards, to unite with the grooveless margin of the tympanum to form what is known as the Rivinian segment. The shape of the membrane varies with that of the inner end of the meatus. Its long axis is from above downwards and forwards. The membrane, broadly viewed, is concave externally, and convex towards the cavity of the tympanum. This is mainly due to the traction of the handle of the malleus, which descends obliquely downwards and backwards between its two inner layers to a point a little below the centre of the membrane. This curvature is deepest at the umbo, opposite the flattened extremity of the handle. In front of and below the umbo, extending towards the periphery, the membrane is slightly convex externally. At the anterior superior pole, the short process of the malleus is plainly visible as a rounded point projecting outwards. A fold of the membrane passes backwards, and another forwards from this spot, and above these folds may, under favourable Fig. 497.—^External View of the Left Membrana Tympani. (Enlarged from life.) Sbrapnell's membrane I Posterior fold of membrana tympani Anterior fold of membrana tympani SHORT PROCESS OF MALLEUS UMBO, OR LOWER EXTREMITY OF HANDLE OF MALLEUS Cone of ligbt conditions, be seen two short, tightly stretched striae, which, taking origin from the corners of the notch of Eivini above, converge as they descend to meet at the short process. The membrane between these stride and the edge of the notch is thin and flaccid, and appears above the short process as a small pit-like depression (membrana Shrapnelli). An anastomosis between the tympanic vessels and those of the external meatus occurs at this spot. \ Viewed from within, the head of the malleus is seen above the membrane articulating with the incus, its curved handle passing downwards and slightly back- wards between its layers, and strongly projecting from the inner surface. The chorda tympani nerve may be seen crossing the neck of the malleus forwards to the Glaserian fissure. Folds of the membrane occur in front of and behind the malleus, forming what are known as the anterior and posterior pouches of the membrana tympani. The free margin of the posterior pouch is commonly well marked. Passing slightly downwards and outwards to the base of the handle of the malleus, is the strongly marked fold containing the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle. Structure.—The membrana tympani consists of three layers—a special fibrous layer, with a cuticular coverings externally continuous with that which lines the r