934 OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE The Vidian, with the upper anterior branches of Meckel's ganglion, supply the upper and back portion of the septum, including the superior spongy bone. The naso-palatine supplies the middle portion of the septum. The anterior dental branch of the maxillary division of the fifth nerve is distributed to the inferior meatus and inferior turbinal bone. The anterior or large palatine nerve supplies in its course downwards the I middle and lower turbinal bones. | The arteries are distributed as follows :— f The spheno-palatine, from the internal maxillary by its internal or naso-palatine i branch, supplies the septum as it courses to the incisor foramen. Its external i branches supply the antrum (also supplied by the alveolar branch of the facial) j and frontal sinus, the ethmoidal cells, and inner surfaces of the turbinal bones i with the meatuses. It enters the cavity through the spheno-palatine foramen. ' The anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries derived from the ophthalmic | supply the upper portion of the septum, the roof, the outer wall (anteriorly) and posterior ethmoidal cells. The descending palatine of the internal maxillary sends a few filaments to the ' back of the inferior meatus and lower turbinal bone. The branch to the septum derived from the superior coronary of the facial ramifies in the membrane covering its lower and front portion. The veins form a plexus especially marked at the lower and hinder portions of the fossa. They follow the course of the arteries. The spheno-palatine passes into the pterygoid plexus. The ethmoidal terminate in the ophthalmic vein, and i the alveolar joins the facial. [ Communications are formed with the veins within the cranial cavity, through \ the cribriform foramina and foramen caecum, and also with the facial vein through small foramina in the nasal bone and nasal process of the maxilla. The lymphatics form a well-developed plexus, which communicates, through the lymphatics surrounding the olfactory nerves, with the subdural space within the cranial cavity.