VEINS OF THE SCALP 653 temporo-maxillary joint—this plexus receives tlie tympanic vein, which, togetlier with its corresponding artery, passes through the fissure of Glaser ; (c) parotid veins, from the substance of tlie parotid gland; (d) masseteric veins, from the j masseter muscle ; and (e) anterior auricular veins, from the pinna of the ear. The internal maxillary vein accompanies the first part of the internal maxillary artery between the internal lateral ligament and the neck of the loAver jaw. It begins at the posterior confluence of the veins forming the pterygoid plexus, and ends by uniting with the common temporal vein to form the temporo-maxillary trunk. ' The pterygoid plexus is formed by the veins which correspond to the branches of the internal maxillary artery. It is situated, partly on the inner surface of the internal pterygoid muscle, and partly around the external pterygoid muscle. The veins entering into this plexus are:—the two middle meningeal, which accom- pany the artery of that name; the posterior dental vein; the mandibular (inferior dental); the masseteric; the buccal; the pterygoid veins from the pterygoid muscles; the deep temporal, by which the plexus communicates wdth the temporal plexus; the spheno-palatine vein; the supraorbital; the superior palatine; the lower branch of the ophthalmic vein, which courses through the spheno-maxillary fissure from the orbit; and the Vesalian vein, through which the plexus communi- I cates with the cavernous sinus. The plexus ends posteriorly in the internal maxillary vein which joins the common temporal vein, and anteriorly in the anterior internal f maxillary or deep facial vein, which passes forwards and downwards between the I buccinator and masseter muscles to join the facial vein. The above-mentioned veins, forming by their confluence the pterygoid plexus, correspond in their course so nearly with that of their companion arteries, that a detailed description is not necessary. Although deeply placed, they are for convenience described with'the superficial veins. The temporo-maxillary vein is formed by the union of the common temporal vein and internal maxillary vein in the substance of the parotid gland. It usually ; joins about the angle of the jaw the posterior auricular vein to form the external jugular. At other times it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior division runs forwards and downwards, and joins the facial vein (see Facial Vein). The posterior division runs backwards over the sterno-mastoid I and joins the posterior auricular to form the external jugular. When the temporo- maxillary trunk without dividing joins the posterior auricular to form the external \ jugular vein, the anterior branch is represented by the communicating branch between the external jugular and facial veins. The Posterior Lateral Veins.—The posterior auricular vein begins in a venous I plexus on the posterior part of the parietal bone. This plexus communicates with !' the vein of the opposite side, across the sagittal suture, and with the posterior ! branch of the superficial temporal vein in front, and with the occipital vein behind. ! It descends over the back part of the parietal bone and the mastoid process of the temporal bone, lying with its artery behind the ear. It then leaves the artery, and passing over the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle obliquely forwards and I downwards, joins the temporo-maxillary vein about the level of the angle of the ! lower jaw, forming the external jugular vein (fig. 385). \ Tributaries.—{a) Auricular veins from the back of the pinna ; and (6) the stylo-mastoid vein, corresponding to the little stylo-mastoid artery. The latter vein opens into the posterior auricular vein, as a rule, as the latter leaves the mastoid process. -