j THE (ESOPHAGUS 987 The stylo-pharyngeus arises from the base of the styloid process internally. It passes downwards and inwards to reach the pharynx between the superior and middle constrictors. Its fibres spread out as it descends beneath the mucous membrane. Some join the fibres of the palato-pharyngeus to be inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage, and the rest interblend with the [ constrictors. I The palato-pharyngeus is described with the muscles of the soft palate (pages 981 and following). ! The muscular coat of the pharynx is supplied by the pharyngeal x^lexus and the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The stylo-pharyngeus is supplied by j the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. [ Relations.—The pharynx is loosely connected by areolar tissue with the pre- [vertebral fascia, the longus colli, and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles, and vertebral column. Laterally, it is in relation with the styloid process and its muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland, the sheath of the carotid vessels, the pharyngeal plexus and ascending pharyngeal artery; above, it is separated from the ramus of the mandible and internal ptery- j goid muscle by a cellular interval; and beneath its investing fascia there is a plexus I of veins. I The interior of the pharynx, viewed from behind, presents the seven openings I already named. At its upper and back part the mucous membrane forms a rounded projection which corresponds to the anterior recti muscles, and on each side of this it sinks backwards, beneath the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, to form a cul-de-sac known as the pharyngeal recess. j In the roof of the cavity just below the body of the occipital bone and in the middle line, the mucous membrane dips into a little pouch with a contracted orifice, the pharyngeal bursa. It is the persistent lower portion of the pharyngeal j diverticulum (pouch of Rathke). It is easily demonstrated in the foetus and young child, but commonly entirely disappears in the adult. Stretching across the pharyngeal wall between the Eustachian orifices and above the pharyngeal bursa, there occurs a special group of lymphatic follicles. It extends indefinitely upwards towards the roof of the cavity, and constitutes the pharyngeal tonsil. This portion of the naso-pharynx is exceedingly liable to become swollen and chronically thickened in naso-pharyngeal catarrh. THE (ESOPHAGUS The (Bsophagus is that portion of the alimentary tract which extends between i the pharynx and the stomach. It is more constricted than the rest of the canal, I being narrowest at its commencement opposite the sixth cervical vertebra and lower , border of the cricoid cartilage. It is again somewhat contracted in its passage through the diaphragm, which is opposite the upper border of the eleventh thoracic II vertebra. It is nine or ten inches (25 cm.) in length, and in its course downwards I follows the curves of the vertebral column, until it finally passes forwards in front of, and slightly to the left of the aorta to gain the oesophageal opening in the dia- j phragm. In addition to these curves it presents two lateral curvatures towards the left side, at the root of the neck, and also below where it leaves the vertebral column. It is placed in the middle line at its commencement opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and again, at a lower level, opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra. Relations in the neck.—The oesophagus has in front of it the trachea, the