450 THE MUSCLES surfaces of the ends of the transverse processes, and an inner connecting the accessory tubercle of one vertebra to the mammillary tubercle of the next vertebra below. A few similar pairs of muscles may also be found in the lower part of the thoracic region. Structure.—Fleshy, with parallel fibres. Nerve-supply.—The spinal nerves as they emerge from the intervertebral foramina. Action.—To flex laterally the spinal column. Relations.—In the neck the anterior primary branches of the nerves come out between the anterior and posterior intertransversales, and the posterior primary branches emerge at the inner borders of the posterior intertransversales. They are hidden from view by the mass of muscles attached to the transverse processes. In' the lumbar region they lie under cover of the erector spinaB and its divisions, andl they are covered in front by the psoas (fig. 286). i THE SUBOCCIPITAL MUSCLES The suboccipital group consists of short muscles, situated in the same plane af the preceding, but somewhat altered in their arrangement on account of the peculiar movements of the region. They are the rectus capitis posticus major ancj Ijj minor, the obliquus capitis inferior and superior, the rectus capitis lateralis. j y ililli tet I \m The rectus capitis posticus major (fig. 308)—somewhat incorrectly named fron^ a the direction of its fibres, its position, and size—is a triangular sheet. i Origin.—The upper surface of the spine of the axis along its side and one hal' Uatii of its bifid tip. \ Insertion.—The middle third of the inferior nuchal line of the occipital bone. Structure.—From a narrow tendinous origin the fleshy fibres diverge as the i | run upwards and outwards to a broad insertion. ' ! Nerve-supply.—A branch of the suboccipital which enters the middle of its dee | surface. Action.—To extend the head upon the neck; and to rotate the head to th, same side. ^ . . . ifflk Relations.—Behind, the complexus and obliquus superior; in front, th| i^j^ succeeding muscle. ' '^^^^ 1 jbtm 2. EECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOE 1 hux ■ ilioi The rectus capitis posticus minor (fig. 308)—named from its direction, size, an I position—is also flat and triangular. j Hjtijj, Origin.—The upper part of one half ofiihe posterior tubercle of the atlas. i ^^^^^ Insertion.—The inner third of the inferior nuchal line of the occipital bonn and the space immediately in front of it. j ^J"'^; Structure.—Fleshy, and consisting of fibres Avhich diverge in fan shape as thfj .^J^ pass upwards and outwards. ' Nerve-supply.—Branches of the suboccipital nerve which enter the outer pa \ of its deep surface. ■ Action.—To extend the head on the neck. Relations.—Behind, the preceding muscle and complexus; in front, tl ■ posterior occipito-atlantal ligament.