LEVATORES COSTABUM—TBIANGULABIS STEBNI 421 irectly when they act in combination (cf. the action of the external and internal blique in approximating the last rib to the crest of the ilimn). 2. Muscles supplied by the same nerve are rarely antagonistic. 3. In long-standing paralysis of the intercostals the sternum is depressed, the hiest flattened, and kept in a permanent condition of exaggerated expiration. i 4. Galvanism of the intercostals produces expansion of the chest. In Duchenne's speriment he found that when he galvanised so slightly as only to affect the sternal intercostals, the inspiratory movement was small; but when he galvanised p strongly as to affect the nerve, and through the nerve the internal intercostals—■ s was known by the contraction of muscular fibre being felt between the cartilages i the ribs, in which situation the only fleshy fibres are those of the inner set—a i:rong inspiratory movement was produced. From the peculiar shape of the ribs and the mode of their articulation, their ievation is accompanied by a rotation of the arcs formed by them upon their chords !3 that their planes from a sloping attain an almost horizontal position. Hence the idening of the chest during inspiration, in addition to the increase of movement :om before backwards due to the elevation of the tips of the ribs. I 3. LEVATORES COSTAEUM The levatores costarum (fig. 299)—named from their action, as elevators of the lbs—are twelve triangular sheets, which cover the back part of the intercostal paces, and are continuous with the fibres of the external intercostal muscles. Origin.—The tips of the transverse processes of the the last cervical, and all ae thoracic vertebra except the last. Insertion.—The outer surface of the ribs from the tubercle to the angle. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous fibres, the muscle expands in a fan bape, and is attached to the next rib below. Frequently fibres pass over one rib nd are inserted upon the next but one. Nerve-supply.—The intercostal nerves which send branches to their deep urfaces. Action.—To elevate the ribs in inspiration. Relations.—Superficially, the outer upward continuations of the erector spinse ; eeply, the external intercostals, which are continuous with the outer border of tie muscles. ; 4. TRIANGULARIS STERNI As the external and internal oblique muscles of the abdomen are represented y the external and internal intercostals in the thorax, so also the transversalis bdominis has its counterpart in the thin stratum of muscular fibre at the sides of 16 sternum called the triangularis sterni, and the still thinner expansion behind of lie infracostales. The triangularis sterni—named from its shape and its connection with the ternum—is a thin, musculo-membranous, triangular sheet, with the apex below jnd directed internally, while the serrated base is external. I Origin.—(1) The side of the lower third of the back of the sternum; (2) the |pper and lateral part of the back of the ensiform cartilage ; (3) the back of the |iner ends of the fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages. \ Insertion.—The outer end of the back and lower border of the cartilages of the 3cond or third to the sixth ribs, and occasionally the tip of the ribs also. I Structure.—The muscle is membranous at its origin and insertion, and it contains |.iany bands of fibrous tissue. Its fibres diverge fan wise, the lower ones being