THE MUSCLES 424 arising on the right side from the front of the bodies of the first to the third or fourth lumbar vertebrtB, from the intervening vertebral discs, and the anterior common ligament; on the left side, from the bodies of the first to the second or third vertebrae only, as well as the discs and anterior common ligament. Insertion.—The front, sides, and back, of the central tendon. Structure.—The fibres, arising fleshy from their extensive origin, pass at first vertically upwards, and then arch inwards to be attached to the borders of the central tendon. The sternal fibres are the shortest, and they are often separated from the costal portion by a small triangular interval filled with areolar tissue, and giving passage to the superior epigastric vessels. The costal origin forms a series of teeth which do not correspond accurately with the number of ribs, some rib cartilages having two teeth attached to them. They interdigitate with the serrations of the transversalis abdominis (fig. 301). The aponeurotic fibres which form thf inner portion of the two crura, after arching in front of the abdominal aorta, artj continued by fleshy fibres which decussate, and so changing sides form a loop round j the oesophagus before joining the central aponeurosis. | The central tendon, or aponeurosis, forms the summit of the dome, and is of a similar outline to the diaphragm, being kidney-shaped, with the concavity behind It approaches nearer the back than the front of the thorax. There is a slighlj notching of its outline in front, which divides it into three parts, so that it ha^j somewhat of a trefoil shape, the right leaflet being the largest, and the left th(i smallest. Its fibres run in many directions. Tjhe diaphragm contains three large foramina, for the passage of the vena cav? inferior, oesophagus, and aorta. Foramina. — Close to the posterior border of the central tendon at the junctioi of the right and middle leaflet is a quadrilateral opening with rounded angles, tb foramen for the vena cava inferior, the outer coat of which vessel is blended with it; j fibrous edges. The oefioyliageal ojjening is oval, with the long diameter directe(| forwards. It is surrounded by fleshy fibres, and lies to the left of the middle line opposite the body of the tenth thoracic vertebra. Through it passes the oesophagus with the left vagus nerve in front, and the right behind ; also a few small oesophagea branches from the thoracic aorta, on their way to join some small oesophagea branches from the gastric artery. The aortic opening, formed by the union of th crura, is fibrous, and of oval shape. It is situated in front of the twelfth thoraci vertebra, and is completed behind by the anterior common ligament. Through i pass the aorta, the vena azygos major, and the thoracic duct. In the crura oi either side are small openings which allow of the passage of the great splanchni nerves, and the left crus is usually perforated also by the vena azygos minor. Nerve-supply.—The two phrenic nerves, chiefly derived from the cervical plexu of each side through the fourth cervical nerves, break up close to the diaphragr into many filaments, Avhich penetrate the muscular structure near the anteric border of the central tendon, and are distributed to the under surface of th muscle. Sympathetic filaments are also given to it from the plexuses whic accompany the phrenic arteries. Action.—To deepen the chest from above downwards, and so produce a mov(j ment of inspiration. The central tendon, Avhich is closely connected by means ( the pericardium with the deep fascia of the neck, is but little depressed ; but it arched fleshy fibres all around flatten, and so increase greatly the capacity of tt sides of the thoracic cavity. At the same time the abdominal viscera are drive! downwards, and as the front part of the parietes is the most yielding, they are als displaced forwards, so as to cause a greater prominence of this part of the abdomei In the expulsive efforts of defecation and parturition, after the diaphragm has firri contracted in a deep inspiration, and the glottis has been closed so as to prevei the escape of air from the chest, the abdominal muscles are able to contract wit