621 POPLITEAL B. Branches of the Sui^erficial Femoral in Scarpa's Triangle The branches given off by the superficial femoral in Scarpa's triangle are usually small and insignificant. They are:—(1) Muscular, to the sartorius and rectus ; and (2) saphenous, to the region of the long saphenous vein and femoral lymphatics in the neighbourhood of the vein. C. Branches of the Superficial Femoral in Hunter's Canal The branches in Hunter's canal are :—(1) Muscular ; and (2) the anastomotica magna. \ (1) The muscular branches supply the sartorius, the rectus, the vastus internus, the crureus, and the adductor muscles. They are usually larger than the muscular branches given off in Scarpa's triangle. (2) The anastomotica magna arises from the front and inner side of the femoral just before the latter perforates the adductor magnus muscle, and almost immedi- ately divides into two branches, {a) a superficial and (h) a deep. These branches may sometimes come off separately from the femoral. [ft) The superficial branch pierces the aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal, passes between the sartorius and gracilis muscles along with the internal saphenous I nerve, and, perforating the deep fascia, supplies the skin of the upper and inner side of the leg and anastomoses with the inferior internal articular branch of the popliteal and the other vessels forming the plexus or rete at the inner side of the knee. In its course it gives twigs to the lower part of the sartorius and gracilis muscles. 1 ih) The deep branch runs downwards in front of the adductor magnus tendon, [ burrowing amongst the fibres of the vastus internus as far as the internal condyle, I where it passes into the plexus or rete on the inner side of the knee joint, \ anastomosing with the internal inferior articular banch of the popliteal, the anterior tibial recurrent, and the external superior articular branch of the popliteal across the front of the femur just above the articular surface of the knee joint. In common with the rest of the rete it sends branches into the knee joint. It also supplies branches to the vastus internus and crureus muscles. THE POPLITEAL ARTEKY The popliteal artery (fig. 375) runs through the popliteal space or ham. It is a continuation of the femoral, and extends from the aponeurotic opening in the ! adductor magnus at the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh ! to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it terminates by dividing into the posterior and anterior tibial arteries. This division is on a level with the lower . border of the tubercle of the tibia. As the artery passes through the opening in the adductor magnus, it is accompanied by the popliteal vein, and at times [ by the branch of the obturator nerve to the knee joint. The vein throughout i is behind the artery, at first lying a little external to it, but as the vessels pass through the popliteal space the vein crosses obliquely over the artery, and at the termination of the artery lies a little to its inner side. The internal popliteal nerve is superficial to both artery and vein. As it enters the space it is well to the i outer side of the vessels, but as it descends it gradually approaches them, crosses behind them, and at the lower part of the space lies to their inner side. The I artery in the whole of its course is deeply placed and covered by a considerable I amount of fat and cellular tissue. ! Relations (fig. 374).—In front, the artery hes successively on the popliteal surface of the femur (from which it is separated by a httle fat and sometimes one or two small glands); on the posterior Hgament of the knee; on the hinder edge of the I . -