757 FOUBTH VENTBICLE the inferior medullary vela, and the epithelial lining of the choroid plexuses and tela choroidea inferior. Some small plates of white matter, the obex and the ligulse, also enter into the formation of the roof. The posterior part of the floor is formed by the medulla and rather more than the anterior half of the upper surface of the pons. Some white lines (stride acustic*), which cross the floor transversely, approximately separate the pontine from the medullary portion of the floor. The valve of Vieussens, or superior medullary velum, is a thin plate of white matter which fills in the angular interval between the superior peduncles of the cerebellum. It is continuous behind with the white matter of the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum. The lingula rests on the posterior part of its upper surface. The fibres of the fourth nerve decussate within its substance at its upper part. The inferior medullary vela are thin crescentic translucent bands of white Fig. 427.—Eight Half of the Encephalic Peduncle as seen from the Inside OF A Median Section. (Allen Thomson, after Keicliert.) MIDDLE COMMISSURE OPTIC THALAMUS PINEAL BODY CORPORA QUADRIGEMIXA DECLIVE CRUS CEREBRI STRIA PINEALIS THIRD VENTRICLE ANT. PILLAR OF FORNIX ANTERIOR COMMISSURE LAMINA CINEREA ^ TUBER CINEREUM RE CESS US INFUNDIBULI -PITUITARY BODY iQUEDUCT OF SYLVIUS PONS FOURTH VENTRICLE INFERIOR MEDULLARY. VELUM 1, culmen ; 2, posterior crescentic lobe ; 3, posterior inferior lobe 5, biventral lobe ; 6, amygdala. slender lobe ; matter which extend from the nodule to the flocculus on each side ; hence they have been called commissurse ad flocculos. Each velum presents a concave edge, which is apparently free, but which is in reality continued into the epithelium, which covers the choroid plexuses. It is attached to the cerebellum by its convex edge. The choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle are convoluted vascular folds of the pia mater, which project into the cavity of the fourth ventricle, but are excluded from the ventricular cavity by a layer of epithelium. They run at first forwards close together on each side of the middle line, and then turn outwards along the edges of the inferior medullary vela to reach the lateral recesses of the ventricle, where they become continuous with the general pia mater. The tela choroidea inferior is a layer of pia mater which closes in the lower and back part of the fourth ventricle. It extends from the choroid plexuses to the HgulaB and obex, where it is continued into the pia mater which covers the posterior