SPINAL NEBVES 779 embryological method depends upon the fact that certain tracts or groups of fibres myehnate (or acquire their medullary sheath) at an earlier period than others, and therefore these tracts of meduUated fibres can be followed and recognised through a series of sections. The pathological method depends upon the trophic influence exercised by nerve-cells. It is found that every nerve-fibre must receive a certain influence from a nerve-cell in order to benefit by the lymph with which it is surrounded. This is called trophic influence. The trophic cells for the sensory fibres are situated in the ganglia in the posterior roots; hence, if the roots be divided between the cord and the ganglia, the nerve-tracts degenerate in an upward direction, and the degenerated tracts can be seen surrounded by the unaffected tracts. Ascending degeneration is, therefore, characteristic of centripetal tracts. The trophic cells for the motor fibres, however, are situated in the cerebral cortex ; hence injuries of the motor area of the cortex are followed by descending degenera- j tion of the motor tracts of the spinal cord. In speaking of the deep origin of the i spinal nerves in the cord, it is to be understood that we refer to the interruption of the nerve-fibres in nerve-cells ; from the nerve-cells other fibres arise in a manner not yet fully understood, and these fibres proceed upwards in the white columns of the cord to the brain. It is easy to recognise, particularly in the case of motor nerves, that the aggre- gations of nerve-cells in the cord correspond to, or are serially homologous with, the nuclei of the cranial nerves. In each case we have an interruption, in nerve-cells, ' of fibres proceeding from the cerebral cortex towards the periphery of the body. Just as injury to the anterior moiety of the posterior limb of the inner capsule will paralyse the motor fibres of the spinal nerves of the opposite side of the body, so will injury to the genu of the inner capsule paralyse the motor cranial nerves of ! the opposite side. The same remarks hold good in regard to the corresponding areas of the cortex. The anterior roots of the spinal nerves traverse the white matter of the cord ' in several bundles, and enter the anterior horn of grey matter. Some fibres (i) join cells, and eventually pass to the lateral pyramidal tract of the same side. Others (ii), after a similar interruption, pass to the anterior pyramidal tract of the same side. Others (iii) pass, via the anterior commissure, to cells in the anterior ! horn of the opposite side. Lastly, others (iv) pass to the cells of the lateral horn (fig. 440). The posterior roots enter the cord at the postero-lateral groove, and spread out in the following manner :—The most laterally placed fibres (v) pass upwards for a short distance in the boundary zone of Lissauer, and then enter the posterior horn; the intermediate fibres (vi) ^Dierce the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi, and are continued in a manner not yet fully understood; the innermost fibres (vii) enter Burdach's columns, and run upwards for a short distance in a longitudinal ' direction. From thence they are very probably continued as follows :—Some (vii[) pass into nerve-cells in. the posterior horn; others (ix) pass, via the posterior commissure, into Goll's column on the opposite side ; others (x) enter Clarke's column, and, after an interruption in the nerve-cells of the column, pass into the I direct cerebellar tract of the same side ; lastly, others (xi) enter Goll's column on ■the same side. Tracts of the spinal cord.—The accompanying diagram (fig. 440) indicates the position and general relation of those tracts, but it must be understood that they vary somewhat in difterent regions of the spinal cord. For instance, the anterior j pyramidal tract is not found below the lower part of the dorsal region, and the I .direct cerebellar tract disappears at the level of the upper lumbar nerve-roots. In I the antero-lateral column in the following tracts are found : anterior pyramidal, I anterior ground bundle, mixed lateral zone, Gower's tract, lateral ground bundle, lateral pyramidal tract, direct cerebellar tract. To these may be added the boundary