323 if BICEPS 1. BICEPS The biceps flexor cubiti—named from its two heads and its action—is a lick, somewhat flattened fusiform muscle with a bifid upper extremity. Origin.—(1) The short head from the outer side of the tip of the coracoid rocess, in close connection with the coraco-brachialis muscle ; (2) the long lead, from the upper border of the glenoid fossa of the scapula and from the lenoid ligament. Insertion.—(1) The posterior border of the tubercle of the radius ; (2) the pper part of the deep fascia on the front of the forearm, two inches below the iiier condyle of the humerus. Structure.—The short head arises by a short tendon from which the fleshy fibres iverge in a somewhat conical form until they meet and blend with the outer and l)nger head about the middle of the upper arm. The long head arises by a thick ribbon-like tendon three to four inches long, hich at its origin upon the upper border of the glenoid fossa bifurcates and lends with the glenoid ligament of the shoulder joint. It first passes outwards ad arches over the rounded head of the humerus. It afterwards enters the canal )rmed by the bicipital groove internally, and externally by the capsule of the joint, bgether with the aponeurotic expansion derived from the tendon of the pectoralis |iajor. Down to this point it is invested by synovial membrane, which is reflected pon it from the adjacent bone and capsule. After emerging at the lower end of le bicipital groove it gives origin to a conical mass of fleshy fibres, which meet jith the fibres derived from the shorter head about the middle of the upper arm. he fleshy bundles belonging to the two heads may be separated for a considerable istance by careful dissection. Shortly below the middle of the upper arm, the mdon of insertion commences as a septum between the two bellies of the muscle. 1 rapidly increases in thickness, and about the level of the condyles it becomes ee, and as a flattened cord passes down in the middle of the bend of the elbow tid turns upon itself so that its posterior aspect now becomes external; before its isertion into the posterior border of the tubercle of the radius it is separated from lat process by a small synovial bursa. About an inch and a half from its inser- on it gives off from its inner border a strong band of fibrous tissue three-quarters [ an inch broad and one inch long (the semilunar fascia), to the deep fascia )vering the ulnar surface of the forearm. Nerve-supply.—From the outer cord of the brachial plexus (through the sixth id seventh cervical nerves) by a branch of the external cutaneous nerve which iters the muscle on its posterior aspect near its inner border. I Action.—(1) It flexes the elbow joint by means of its radial insertion, and also 1^ the attachment of the semilunar fascia to the inner side of the forearm. (2) It jipinates strongly the forearm by means of the radial tendon which wraps round the ibercle of the radius. This movement will be most powerful when the elbow is 3nt to a right angle, as the tendon is then perpendicular to the bone, which it causes ) revolve. To increase its leverage, the tendon is lifted away from the axis of the jone by the prominence of the tubercle. (3) It will assist somewhat feebly in the j lovements of the shoulder joint, its short head being, like the coraco-brachialis, a lexor and adductor of the upper arm. By its long head it binds down the upper |ortion of the humerus, and prevents the tendency to dislocation upwards. When lie forearm is fixed, the biceps will help in flexing the elbow, as in climbing or in It: rawing up the trunk to a horizontal bar. Relations.—Superficially, the deltoid and pectoralis major, the deep fascia, and I the bend of the elbow the median cephalic vein ; deeply, the humerus, the Y 2