412 THE MUSCLES metatarso-phalangeal joint; (2) the dorsal aspect of the base of the second phalanx of the great toe. Structure.—Arismg by fleshy fibres from the bone and interosseous membrane, the muscle is inserted in a penniform manner into a tendon which appears about the middle of the leg upon its inner and front aspect, and becomes clear of muscular fibres about the level of the ankle joint. The tendon now passes beneath the upper part of the anterior annular ligament, and is then included in a special sheath beneath the lower part of the same ligament. Opposite the first metatarso- phalangeal joint it gives oft' from its sides and under surface bands of connective tissue which unite partly with the two lateral ligaments, especially the internal one, and partly with the periosteum upon the sides of the first phalanx. The rest of the tendon is flattened out and fits closely to the dorsal aspect of the first phalanx ; it is finally attached to the second phalanx in a transverse line which crosses the upper surface of its base. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior tibial by filaments which enter the inner and deeper aspect of the muscle about the middle of the leg. Action.—(1) To extend the first phalanx of the great toe; (2) slightly to extend the second phalanx, but this movement is chiefly performed by the small muscles of the sole of the foot, which give oft' expansions to be attached to the borders of the tendon at the sides of the first phalanx; (3) to flex the ankle, and at the same time it will slightly adduct the front of the foot and invert the sole. When the muscle contracts strongly it will hyper-extend the first phalanx, and at the same time flexion of the second phalanx will be produced by the resistance of the flexor longus hallucis tendon. Relations in the leg".—Superficially, the deep fascia, the tibialis anticus, and the extensor longus digitorum ; internally, the tibialis anticus ; externally, the extensor longus digitorum; deeply, the interosseous membrane, the tibia, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The tendon lies beneath the two portions of the anterior annular ligament, and after crossing the anterior tibial artery near the ankle-joint it runs to its insertion with the dorsalis pedis and the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum on its outer side. Variations.—The muscle is occasionally divided, and a smaller external portion joins the first tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum, or is inserted separately into the head of the first metatarsal bone or the base of the first phalanx. 3. EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITORUM The extensor longus digitorum—named from its length and its action upon the toes—is fusiform and somewhat flattened, with a four-divided tendon. Origin.—(1) The outer part of the under surface of the external tuberosity of the tibia; (2) the upper three-fourths of the anterior or extensor surface of the fibula ; (3) the outer border of the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane in its upper third ; (4) the posterior surface of the deep fascia of the leg; (5) the intermuscular septa which separate it from the upper part of the tibialis anticus and from the long and short peronei. Insertion.—The three phalanges and the metatarso-phalangeal joints of each of the four outer toes. Structure.—This is a penniform muscle, and its fibres arise fleshy from the bones and the fascia, and pass forwards and inwards to the back and outer side of the long tendon of insertion. This begins about the middle of the leg, and becomes free from fleshy fibres about the level of the ankle joint; it passes behind the upper part of the anterior annular ligament, but not in a special synovial sheath then beneath the lower part of the anterior annular ligament in a special synovial I