ABDUCT OB AND FLEXOB BEE VIS MINIMI DIGIT I 363 ! Muscles of the HYroTHENAR Eminence These are three m number—the abductor mmimi digiti, the opponens mmimi ligiti, and the flexor brevis mimmi digiti. They lie under cover of the thin internal livision of the palmar fascia. 1. ABDUCTOE MINIMI DIGITI The abductor minimi digiti—named from its action—is fusiform and some- (vhat flattened. Origin.—(1) The lower half of the pisiform bone ; (2) the continuation of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris below this bone. Insertion.—(1) The ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger ; and (2) the adjacent portion of the aponeurosis of the extensor minimi ligiti. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous fibres, it soon forms a flat fleshy mass I which contracts slightly below, and just before its insertion, having again become tendinous, it is for the most part attached to the first phalanx, but it also sends a Ismail slip backwards to the extensor aponeurosis. Nerve-supply.—From the ulnar nerve through the eighth cervical nerve. It receives small filaments at the outer and deep aspect, usually from the deep palmar division of the ulnar nerve. Action.—To abduct, and at the same time flex, the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the little finger; it will also assist, like an interosseous muscle, in the extension of the second and third phalanges. Relations.—Superficially, the hypothenar part of the palmar fascia and the Ipalmaris brevis ; deeply, the flexor brevis and opponens minimi digiti. Upon its radial border are placed the deep palmar branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. 2. FLEXOK BKEVIS MINIMI DIGITI The flexor brevis minimi digiti—named from its action—is small and fusiform. Origin.—(1) The ulnar surface of the hook of the unciform bone; (2) the adjacent part of the front of the anterior annular ligament. Insertion.—The ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Structure.—Its origin and insertion are by short tendinous fibres, and the rest of the muscle is fleshy. Nerve-supply.—Through the eighth cervical nerve, from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve which sends filaments to the upper part of its deep and ulnar surface. Action.—To flex the first phalanx of the little finger. Relations.—Superficially, the hypothenar part of the palmar fascia, the lower part of the abductor minimi digiti, and the superficial palmar arch; deeply, the opponens minimi digiti and the fifth metacarpal bone ; and to its radial side lie the flexor tendons of the little finger. This muscle is closely connected with the previous one, from which it is separated above by the deep palmar branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Variations.—It may fail, or be blended with the abductor or opponens minimi digiti. An accessory slip may come to it from the lower third of the ulna at its inner border, from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, or the deep fascia of the forearm.