261 THE HIP JOINT 111 thickness and strength the capsule varies greatly ; thus, if two lines be awn, one from the anterior inferior spine to the inner border of the femur near e lesser trochanter, and the other from the anterior part of the groove for the ternal obturator to the digital fossa, all the ligament between those lines on the iter and upper aspects of the joint is very thick and strong, and that below and the inner side, except at the narrow pectineo-femoral band, is thin and weak, so l.at the head of the bone can be seen through it. The capsule is thickest in the urse of the ilio-femoral band, towards the outer part of which it measures over a larter of an inch (6 mm.). Between the ilio-femoral and ischio-femoral bands e capsule is very strong, and with it here near the acetabulum is incorporated e reflected tendon of the rectus, and here also a triangular band of fibres runs 1 Fig. 238.—Posterior View of the Capsule of the Hip Joint. Eere are seen the re-- fleeted tendon of the rectus and the tri- angular ' ilio-trochan- I terie' band bwnwards and forwards to be attached by a narrow insertion to the ridge on fie front border of the greater trochanter near the gluteus minimus (the ilio- ochanteric band) (fig. 238). The capsule is strengthened here also by a strong band from the under surface (: the gluteus minimus, and by the tendino-trochanteric band which passes down om the reflected tendon of the rectus to the vastus externus (fig. 237). This closely blended with the capsule near the outer edge of the ilio-femoral ligament. 1 The thinnest part of the capsule is between the pectineo-femoral and ilio- imoral bands ; this is sometimes perforated, allowing the bursa under the psoas ) communicate with the joint. The capsule is also very thin at its attachment to |ie back of the femoral neck, and again opposite the cotyloid notch. I The ligamentum teres (figs. 239 and 240) is an interarticular flat band which vtends from the acetabular notch to the head of the femur, and is usually about