657 VENOUS SINUSES OF THE CBANIUM parvse), and the two sigmoid—which latter, however, are usually described as part of the lateral. Occasionally there are two additional sinuses (the two petro-squamous), due to the persistence in the adult of what in the foetus was the continuation of the lateral sinus. (1) The superior longitudinal sinus, or superior sagittal sinus (fig. 388), lies in the median groove on the inner surface of the calvaria along the attached margin of the falx cerebri. It extends from the foramen caecum to the internal occipital protuberance. It grooves from before backwards the frontal bone, the contiguous sagittal margin of the parietal bones, and the squamous portion of the occipital bone. In the foetus it communicates, through the foramen caecum, with the nasal veins, and generally throughout life with the superficial temporal vein through the parietal foramen. It is triangular on section, the base of the triangle corresponding to Fig. 387.—The Venous Sinuses. (From a dissection by W. J. Walsham in St. Bartholomew' Hospital Museum.) Anterior ethmoidal artery Posterior ethmoidal artery il'le meningeal artery \)PHTHALMIC tmON OF FIFTH NERVE THIRD NERVL Cavernous simi FOURTH lYERVI UDITORY AND FACIAL NERVE,' 'erior petrosal sinn; etro-squamous sinus iL ACCESSORY N. Sigmoid portion of lateral sinus •a sterior meningeal \ of vertebral artery Left marginal sinm Left lateral sinus Superior longitudinal sinus Circular sinus Cavernous sinus SIXTH NERVE Basilar artery Basilar plexus Auditory artery Vertebral artery Anterior spinal artery HYPOGLOSSAL NER VE SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE Right marginal sinus Occipital sinus Right lateral sinus the bone. Crossing it are a number of fibrous bands known as the chordae Willisii, and projecting into it in places are the Pacchionian bodies. In front the sinus is quite small, but it increases greatly in calibre as it runs backwards. It receives at intervals the superior cortical cerebral veins, and the veins from the falx. The former, for the most part, open into it in the direction opposite to that in which the blood is flowing in the sinus. They pass for some distance in the walls of the sinus before opening into it. Posteriorly, at the internal occipital protuberance, the superior longitudinal sinus usually turns sharply to the right, and ends in the right lateral sinus ; the straight sinus then usually terminates in the left lateral sinus, and the right and left lateral sinuses communicate with each other across the occipital protuberance. Occasionally, however, the superior longitudinal sinus ends UU