INTERIOR OF THE SKULL 93 A foramen for the small superficial petrosal nerve. An eminence formed by the superior semicircular canal. Anterior and slightly external to the ridge formed by the superior semicircular canal, the bone is exceedingly thin and translucent. This is the roof of the tympanum (tegmen tympani). When the dura mater is in situ, the depression lodging the Gasserian ganglion is converted into a foramen, traversed by the fifth nerve. The notch in the side of the dorsum ephippii for the third nerve is also a foramen when the dura mater is present. In many skulls the middle clinoid process is pro- longed to meet the anterior clinoid process, and thus forms a foramen for the internal carotid artery. The grooves for the middle meningeal arteries are some- times canals or tunnels in a part of their course, especially in old skulls. The grooves radiate from the foramen spinosum and extend to the vault. The bones most deeply marked are the squamosal, the greater wing of the sphenoid, and the parietal. The posterior cranial fossa is the deepest portion of the cavity. It is bounded by the dorsum ephippii and the superior borders of the petrosals, the mastoid portion of the petrosals, the posterior inferior angle of the parietals, and the squamo- occipital below the level of the crest (supra-occipital). The upper limits are indicated by the grooves for the lateral sinuses. It is marked by the following- sutures :—the petro-occipital, occipito-mastoid, parieto-mastoid, and, in young skulls, the basilar suture. The ridges limiting this fossa give attachment to the tentorium cerebelli, and the fossa lodges the cerebellum with the pons and medulla. It communicates with the general cranial cavity by means of the foramen of Pacchionius when the tentorium is in situ. It has the following objects of interest:— The clivus, extending from the dorsum ephippii to the anterior margin of th'e foramen magnum. This is in relation with the basilar artery, the pons, and medulla. The notch for the sixth nerve on each side of the dorsum ephippii. This is sometimes a foramen, termed the petro-sphenoid. The foramen magnum, presenting on each side a tubercle for the check ligaments ; and the anterior condyloid foramen (sometimes subdivided by a spiculum of bone) for the hypoglossal nerve. Behind the foramen there is a vertical ridge of bone, the internal occipital crest, for the falx cerebelli. This sometimes presents a depression known as the vermiform fossa. The anterior boundaries of the fossa present:— A notch for the passage of the fifth nerve. This is a foramen when the tentorium is present. The internal auditory meatus, for the facial and auditory nerves, and the auditory branch of the basilar artery. The jugular foramen, which transmits the glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves, the internal jugular vein, and the meningeal branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery. The termination of the groove for the lateral sinus, with the internal orifice of the mastoid foramen. The cranium of an average European has a capacity of 1450 cc. The circum- ference, taken in a plane passing through the ophryon anteriorly, the occipital point posteriorly, and the pterion laterally, is 52 cm. The length from the ophryon to the occipital point is 17 cm. ; the loidth between the parietals at the level of the zygomata is 12"5 cm. ; and the height from the basion to the bregma is nearly the same. The cranio-facial angle is about 96°.