THE MUSCLES 440 (2) Splenius Colll Origin.—The spines of the third to the sixth thoracic vertebrae, and the inter- spinons hgaments between them. Insertion.—The back of the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three or four upper cervical vertebrae. Structure.—Of parallel fleshy fibres with a short aponeurotic origin, and inserted by small tendons, the highest of which is the largest. Nerve-supply.—The external branches of the posterior divisions of the lower cervical nerves. Action.—(1) To extend the upper part of the neck ; (2) to flex it laterally; (3) to rotate it to the same side. Relations of the splenius.—Superficially, the sterno-mastoid, trapezius, ser- ratus posticus superior, and the levator anguli scapulae which conceals the splenius colli in the posterior triangle of the neck. Beneath lie the complexus, trachelo- mastoid, cervicalis ascendens, and transversalis colli. Variations.—The number of the thoracic vertebras from which the splenii arise varies. The splenius colli ma^' be absent. The slip mentioned in the variations of the serratus posticus superior may be considered to be a variation of the splenii. Fifth Layer The fifth layer consists of vertical muscles, and contains both spinales and transversales. To the latter class belongs the greater part of the erector spinas and the seven muscles which either spring from it or are serially continuous with it: viz. the ilio-costalis, accessorius ad ilio-costalem, cervicalis ascendens, longissimus dorsi, transversalis colli, trachelo-mastoid, and the spinalis dorsi. 1. ERECTOR SPIN^ The erector spinse—named from its function—is a broad and very strong membranous sheet of a triangular shape, with a layer of fleshy fibres upon its deep surface ; and it divides in the lumbar region into three longitudinal series of muscles which fill the greater part of the vertebral groove. Origin.—(1) The spines of the two last thoracic, all the lumbar, and the four upper sacral vertebrae ; (2) the back of the side portion of the fourth sacral vertebra ; (3) the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, a few of these fibres being continuous with the origin of the gluteus maximus ; (4) the upper part of the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and the posterior fifth of the iliac crest. Insertion.—It is continuous with the spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi, and ilio-costalis. Structure.—A strong membranous sheet, everywhere continuous except at the origin from the lower thoracic and upper lumbar spines, where it is partly divided into separate tendons. It breaks up into fleshy fibres in a line which stretches obliquely upwards and inwards from the front of the iliac origin to the last thoracic spines. Fleshy fibres also arise upon its deeper surface at a lower level, and some arise directly from the posterior superior iliac spine and the crest under cover of the tendinous origin. Nerve-supply.—The external branches of the posterior divisions of the lumbar nerves which enter its deep surface.