658 THE VEINS in the left lateral sinus, the straight then passing into the right. At other times the posterior end of the superior longitudinal sinus at the internal occipital protu- berance becomes slightly dilated, forming what is called the torcular Herophili, or confluence of the sinuses. When this dilatation exists, the straight sinus usually opens into it in front, the two lateral sinuses on either side, the superior longitu- dinal above, the occipital sinus or sinuses, when two are present, below. The torcular may communicate through the occipital emissary vein, which, when present, passes through a minute foramen in the occipital protuberance, with the occipital vein. (2) The inferior longitudinal or inferior sagittal sinus (fig. 388) is situated at the free margin of the falx cerebri. Beginning about the junction of the anterior with the middle third of the falx, it is continued backwards along the concave or lower margin of that process to the junction of the falx with the tentorium, where Fig. 388.—The Venous Sinuses. (Longitudinal section.) FOURTH NERVE THIRD NERVE I Palx cerebri SECOND NERVE Superior longitudinal sinus Inferior longitudinal- sinus Veins of Galen Straight sinus Tentorium cerebelli Lateral sinus Palx cerebelli SEVENTH AND EIGHTH NER VES NINTH, TENTH, AND ELEVENTH NERVES TWELFTH NERVE SECOND CERVICAL NERVE Ligamentum denticulatum FIFTH NERVE SIXTH NERVE it ends in the straight sinus. The sinus is cylindrical in shape and of small size, and receives some of the inferior frontal veins of the brain, some of the veins from the median surface of the brain, and some of the veins of the falx. (3) The straight sinus, or sinus rectus (fig. 388)—also variously called the sinus tentorii, perpendicularis, and obliquus—lies along the junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium cerebelli. It is formed by the union of the great vein of Galen and the inferior longitudinal sinus. It receives in its course branches from the tentorium cerebelli and from the upper surface of the cerebellum. It runs down- wards and backwards to the internal occipital protuberance, where it ends in the left lateral sinus, at times in the right lateral sinus, or in the torcular Herophili when that blood-space is present. On section it is triangular in shape, with its apex upwards. (4) The occipital sinus (fig. 387) ascends mesially at the attached margin of the