1019 THE LIVEB I iwhich is intimately adherent to the peritoneum, and is continuous over the Uver where the peritoneum is deficient. At the transverse fissure this fihrous layer [invests the hepatic vessels, forming a special sheath which follows the vessels as I they enter the liver: this structure receives the name of Glisson's capsule. I Above. I Diaphragm and anterior wall of abdomen. i I Behind. j Tenth and eleventh thoracic verte- ' brse ; crm^a of diaphragm; lower end of oesophagus; right supra- renal capsule; great vessels. Below. Cardiac end of stomach ; hepatic flexure of coloai; right kidney; first and second portions of duodenum. Ligaments of the liver.—With the exception of the round ligament, the liga- ments are formed by the peritoneum, and (with the same exception) are all attached jto the diaphragm. The reflexion of the two layers of peritoneum from the posterior Surface of the liver to the diaphragm, as just described, forms the coronary ligaments, the extremities, or lateral continuations, being called the right and left lateral lligaments. The left lateral ligament is the longer, and is attached to the diaphragm in front of the oesophagus. The right is attached to the back part of the liaphragm. The broad ligament (falciform or suspensory ligament) is also continuous jbehind with the coronary ligament; it is formed by the adjacent surfaces of the two portions of peritoneum covering the superior surface ; it extends from the ambilicus where is the apex of the falx. The upper rounded border is connected with the anterior abdominal wall and diaphragm. The free or anterior border 3ontains the round ligament; the lower or attached border extends from before backwards on the upper surface of the liver. The round ligament is a fibrous cord (the remains of the umbilical vein), extending m the free border of the broad ligament from the longitudinal fissure to the imbilicus. Blood-vessels.—The liver receives its arterial supply of blood from the hepatic irtery, a branch of the coeliac axis, which passes up between the two layers of the esser omentum, and, dividing into two branches, one for each lobe, enters the liver it the transverse fissure. The right branch gives off a branch to the gall bladder, the liver receives a much larger supply of blood from the ijortal vein, which 3onveys to the liver blood from the stomach, intestines, pancreas, and spleen. It mters the transverse fissure, and there divides into two branches. Below this tissure the hepatic artery lies to the left, the bile duct to the right, and the portal K^ein behind and between the two (fig. 584). These three structures ascend to the iiver between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum in front of the foramen 3f Winslow. At the actual fissure the order of the three structures from before backwards is—duct, artery, vein. I The hepatic veins, by which the blood of the liver passes into the inferior vena pava, open by several large and small openings into that vessel at the posterior surface of the gland at the bottom of the fossa of the vena cava. I Lymphatics.—The lymphatics are divided into a deep and a superficial set. The fleep set run with the branches of the portal vein, artery, and duct through the liver, leaving at the transverse fissure, where they join the vessels of the superficial set. The superficial set begin in the subperitoneal tissue. Those of the upper urface consist:—(1) Of vessels which pass up, principally, in the broad ligament