EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL 883 This muscle possesses smooth fibres and consists of an outer and inner division; I in the outer the fibres run longitudinally, inserted into the outer fibrous coat of j the eye at the sclero-corneal junction in front, and passing backwards to join the outer layers of the orbiculus and choroid; the inner contains circularly running fibres situated next to the ciliary processes. The entire muscle is destitute of pigment, and therefore is recognisable in the section by its light colour. The whole thickening of the uveal tract in this region, muscle and folds and processes together, is named the ciliary body. The iris projects into the interior of the front half of the eye in the form of a circular disc perforated in the middle. The appearance of its anterior surface has Fig. 476.—Diagrammatic Horizontal Section of Eyeball and Orbit. (After Fuchs, much modified.) Periorbita green ; muscle-fascia red ; Tenon's capsule yelloiu. Lower lachrymal punctum Cornea \ CARUNCLE Jnner palpebral ligament External rectus muscle NASAL PROCESS OF UPPER JAW Anterior limb of inner palpebral ligament Lachrijmal sac Posterior limb of inner palpebral ligament with Horner's muscle springing from it LACHRYMAL BONE Process of muscle-fascia to under surface of conjunctiva OiYi serrata Tendon of insertion of internal rectus Inner check ligament ■ Periorbita -ORBITAL PLATE OF ETHMOID BONE Posterior lamina of muscle-fascia lined by Tenon's capsule Internal rectus muscle OPTIC NERVE already been described. Its posterior surface exhibits numerous radial folds running from the cihary processes to near the pupillary border; a thick layer of black pigment covers it and curls round its inner edge, so as to come into view all round the pupil as seen from in front. The peripheral or ciliary border of the iris is continuous with the front of the ciliary body, where it also receives fibres from the ligamentum pectinatum iridis ; in other respects the iris is quite free, merely resting on the front of the lens-capsule near the pupil. Its stroma is spongy in character, being made up of vessels covered by a thick adventitia, running from the periphery to the pupillary border, with interspaces filled by branching pigment cells, which are particularly abundant near the front surface. Deep in the stroma, running 3 L 2