EXTEBNAL POPLITEAL NEBVE 859 the other branches. Each head of the biceps is supplied with a separate branch. The branches to the semi-membranosus and adductor magnus arise by a common trunk. In some cases the external and internal popliteal nerves arise separately from the sacral plexus, a great sciatic nerve in the proper sense of the word being absent. In such cases the nerves to the hamstrings are derived from the internal popliteal nerve. (Paterson.) The EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE enters the superior angle of the popliteal space, and runs downwards and outwards in contact with the inner border of the biceps. It leaves the space by passing between the biceps tendon and the outer head of the gastrocnemius. It then winds round the neck of the fibula between the bone and the peroneus longus muscle, and terminates by dividing into the recurrent articular, the musculo-cutaneous, and the anterior tibial nerves. Branches.—The branches of the external popliteal nerve may be classified into articular, cutaneous, and terminal. (1) The articular branches accompany the superior and inferior external articular branches of the popliteal artery, and are distributed to the knee joint. [ (2) The cutaneous branches are two in number, and often arise by a common trunk. One of these is distributed to the skin covering the outer and upper part of the leg. The other branch is termed nervus communicans peronei. It runs down- wards and inwards beneath the deep fascia, and joins the nervus communicans I tibialis to form the external or short saphenous nerve (page 861). (3) The recurrent articular nerve ends principally in the upper part of the I tibialis anticus muscle. A few fine filaments accompany the anterior tibial recurrent artery to the front of the knee joint. (4) The musculo-cutaneous nerve is directed downwards through the substance of the peroneus longus, and is afterwards placed between the peroneus longus and I peroneus brevis muscles. Having given off branches to supply these muscles, it ! divides into an external and an internal branch; these branches pierce the deep fascia in the line of the intermuscular septum between the peronei and the extensor group of muscles. The external branch runs downwards in front of the anterior annular ligament, and divides into the following branches : a twig which communicates with the short saphenous; a branch which divides to supply the adjacent sides of the fourth and fifth toes ; and a branch which communicates with I the internal division of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The internal branch crosses the anterior annular ligament about an inch to the inner side of the external branch, and divides into four branches ; the first of these communicates with the external branch, forming with it a nerve which bifurcates to supply the adjacent 1 sides of the third and fourth toes ; the second divides to be distributed to the con- tiguous sides of the second and third toes ; the third communicates with the internal ]! terminal branch of the anterior tibial at the cleft between the great and second [ toes ; and the fourth supplies the inner border of the great toe. From the two main divisions of the nerve a number of collateral twigs are 1 given off, which supply the integument of the lower part of the front of the leg and I the dorsum of the foot. ' (5) The anterior tibial nerve pierces the intermuscular septum between the peronei and extensors, and, having traversed the upper fibres of the extensor longus digitorum, runs downwards on the interosseous membrane between the last-named muscle and the tibialis anticus ; lower down it is placed between the tibialis anticus I and the extensor longus hallucis. Finally it passes under cover of the anterior i annular ligament, and terminates in front of the bend of the ankle by dividing into j an external and an internal branch. In this course it is placed external to the I anterior tibial artery in the upper fourth of the leg, but lies on the anterior ' surface of that vessel in the remainder of its course. I