THE MUSCLES 308 Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus by means of the: long subscapular nerve. This is derived from the fifth cervical nerve, and entersl the muscle upon its deep surface in the lower part of the axilla. Action.—It draws the humerus baclvwards, downwards, and inwards; at the same time rotating it inwards. The movement of the arm in swimming is a goodj example of its action. When the arm is placed close to the side, it will draw thei shoulder backwards and downwards. ! Acting from the humerus as a fixed point, it is very important in climbing, as it, draws the pelvis and lower part of the trunk upwards and forwards towards the arms. i By its costal origin it will assist in forced inspiration when the arm is fixed, j Relations.—Superficially, the trapezius, fasciae, and integument, the pectorah^j major, axillary vessels, and branches of the brachial plexus; deeply, the rhomboi-i deus major, the vertebral aponeurosis, covering the upward continuations of th(i erector spinae muscle, the serratus posticus inferior, external intercostals, external oblique, infraspinatus, serratus magnus, and teres major muscles. • Variations.—It varies in the height of its origin from the spinal column, and also ir the number of ribs from which it arises. , From its axillary border slips may cross th(: axilla to the tendon of the pectoralis major, or may cross the great vessels and nerves tci the coracoid process or the deep fascia at the upper part of the arm. A slip of fascia oi' muscle may be continued down from its tendon of insertion to the olecranon in associatioi: with the triceps. j j ANTEEIOE DIVISION OF THE GEOUP OF MUSCLE^ PASSING FEOM THE TEUNK TO THE UPPEl! EXTEEMITY These muscles are arranged in three layers, of which the first two are forme( by muscles which arise from the front of the thorax : viz., the pectoralis major ii the first layer, and the subclavius and pectoralis minor in the second; the last b;i a single muscle, the serratus magnus, which takes origin from the side of th| thorax. | The superficial fascia, which covers all these sheets, is but moderately supplie' with fat, and is continuous with that of all the adjacent regions. It lies both ove! and beneath the mammary gland, and sends fibrous septa between its lobules. ; In addition to the superficial fascia, there are three other important fasciae i| this region. j 1. The pectoral fascia, a thin membrane which forms the sheath of the pectoralii major, and is attached to the clavicle above ; while below it passes over the free edgi of the great pectoral muscle, and there unites with the axillary fascia. 2. The clavi-pectoral fascia arises in two sheets from the anterior and posteric' borders of the under surface of the clavicle. These sheets unite after enclosiu, the subclavius muscle, and form a single membrane which is much thicker at ilj outer and upper part, where it is attached to the coracoid process and blends wit? the front of the sheath of the axillary vessels. It bridges over the interv{| between the subclavius muscle and the pectoralis minor, and is here called tb, costo-coracoid membrane. This membrane is of a quadrilateral shape, attache! above and below to the sheaths of the subclavius and the pectoralis minor muscle, externally to the upper surface of the coracoid process, and internally it becom(i i very thin and blends with the fascia covering the two upper intercostal spacei Below, the clavi-pectoral fascia becomes thin, and forms the sheath of the pectoral minor. At the lower border of this muscle it joins the axillary fascia. p 3. The axillary fascia is a strong membrane which stretches across the trianguk A,