282 THE ARTICULATIONS widest part of the tibio-fibular arcli. In flexion the astragalus is tightly embraced by the malleoli, and lateral movement is impossible. Flexion is limited by : (i) nearly the whole of the fibres of the internal lateral ligament, none but the most anterior being relaxed ; (ii) tlie posterior and middle portions of the external lateral ligament, especially the posterior ; (iii) the posterior ligament of the ankle. It is also limited by the neck of the astragalus abutting on the edge of the tibia, i Extension is limited by : (i) the anterior fibres of the internal lateral ligament ; (ii) the anterior and middle portions of the external lateral ligament ; (iii) the inner and stronger fibres of the anterior ligament. It is also limited by the posterior portion of the astragalus meeting Avith the tibia. Thus the middle portion of the external lateral ligament is always on the stretch, owing to its obliquely backward direction, whereby it limits flexion; audits attachment to the fibula in front of the malleolar apex, whereby it prevents over-extension as soon as the foot begins to twist inwards. This inward twisting, or adduction of the foot, is partly due to the greater posterior length of the inner border of the superior articular surface of the astragalus, and to the less proportionate height posteriorly of the external border of that surface, but chiefly to the lateral movement in the calcaneo-astragaloid joints. Flexion and extension take place round a transverse axis drawn through the body of the^ astragalus. The movement is not in a direct antero-posterior plane, but on a plane inclined forwards and outwards from the middle of the astragalus to the inter- metatarsal joint of the second and third toes. 5. THE TARSAL JOINTS These may again be divided up into the following sub-groups :— j (a) The calcaneo-astragaloid union. {b) The articulations of the anterior portion of the tarsus, (c) The medio-tarsal joint. (a) The Calcaneo-asteagaloid Union Class. Diartlirosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. There are two joints which enter into this union—viz. an anterior and ; posterior. (i) TJie Posterior Calcaneo-astragaloid Joint The calcaneum articulates with the astragalus by two joints, the anterior an( posterior : the former communicates with the medio-tarsal; the posterior is separat and complete in itself. The two bones are united by the following ligaments :— Interosseous. External calcaneo-astragaloid. Posterior calcaneo-astragaloid. Internal calcaneo-astragaloid. The interosseous ligament (figs. 255, 256) is a strong band connecting the appose surfaces of the calcaneum and astragalus along their oblique grooves. It is compose of several vertical laminae of fibres, with some fatty tissue in between. It is bettt marked, deeper, and broader externally. Strong laminae extend from the roug inferior and external surfaces of the neck of the astragalus to the rough superio surface of the os calcis anteriorly, forming the posterior boundary of the anteric calcaneo-astragaloid joint; these have been described as the anterior interosseor ligament. The posterior lamina extend from the roof of the sinus pedis t the OS calcis immediately in front of the external facet, thus forming the anteric part of the capsule of the posterior joint. The external calcaneo-astragaloid ligament (fig. 255) extends from the groo\ just below and in front of the external articular facet of the astragalus to the os calc