332 THE MUSCLES which intervene between the muscle and the pahnaris longus and flexor subhmis digitorum. The second head : from the inner surface of the olecranon process, and the upper two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna. Insertion.—The upper surface of the pisiform bone, beyond which fibres are continued to the unciform process, and the front of the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. Structure.—The origin of the upper head is tendinous, and that of the lower is j partly fleshy, partly aponeurotic ; the aponeurosis from the posterior ridge of the | ulna being common to it with the flexor profundus digitorum and the extensor carpi ! ulnaris, and being closely blended with the deep fascia of the back of the forearm, j The two heads are united by a fibrous arch under which passes the ulnar nerve. | From this tendinous and bony origin the fleshy fibres pass downwards and forwards ' in a penniform manner to be inserted into the posterior aspect of a tendon which | appears on the front of the muscle a little above the middle of the forearm, and ! becomes free just above the wrist joint, where it lies superficial and internal to the anterior annular ligament at its insertion into the pisiform bone. Nerve-supply.—From the inner cord of the brachial plexus (through the ' eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves) by filaments from the ulnar nerve which j enter the deep surface of the muscle above the middle of the forearm. Action.—(1) Flexor of the wrist. The pisiform bone assists this action by lifting the line of the tendon a little from the metacarpal bone, much as the patella assists : the quadriceps femoris. (2) It assists somewhat feebly in adduction of the wrist, j (3) It helps in the flexion of the elbow. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia and superficial veins ; deeply, the flexor | profundus digitorum, the ulnar vessels and nerve. Near the wrist the ulnar artery lies along the outer border of the tendon. Variations.—Its insertion sometimes extends to the anterior annular ligament, and occasionally it sends a slip to the base of the fourth metacarpal bone. Second Layer The second layer consists of one muscle—the flexor sublimis digitorum. FLEXOR SUBLIMIS DIGITOEUM The flexor sublimis digitorum—named from its action as a flexor of the fingers, and from its position in relation to the deep flexor (sublimis = superficial)—is a fusiform sheet, with two heads above, and dividing into four tendons below. : Origin.—The first head arises from (1) the front of the internal condyle by the common tendon; (2) the intermuscular septum which separates it from the \ muscles of the first sheet ; (3) the internal lateral ligament; and (4) a tubercle at ; the upper part of the inner border of the coronoid process of the ulna. j The second head arises from the oblique line on the anterior surface of the radius. | Insertion.—By four tendons into the middle of the sides of the second phalanges | of the four fingers. i Structure.—The first head arises by short tendinous fibres from the humerus j and ulna, and from the ligament between them. The second head, which is much ! smaller, by fleshy fibres which form a thin sheet covering a part of the flexor longus ; pollicis. Between these two heads the median nerve and the ulnar artery are placed. : Converging from these two heads, the fleshy fibres occupy almost the whole breadth i of the forearm, but soon divide into a superficial and deep plane. From the former, !