590 THE ABTEBIES pancreatico-gastric fold of peritoneum into the lesser omentum, between which it then runs to its terminal anastomosis with the pyloric. It is surrounded by the coronary x^lexus of sympathetic nerves. The branches of the gastric artery are :—(1) The oesophageal; (2) the cardiac ; (3) the gastric ; and (4) the hepatic. (1) The oesophageal branches, given off where the artery makes its bend on to the stomach, ascend on the oesophagus, and, passing through the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, anastomose with the thoracic oesophageal branches and the branches from the left phrenic. (2) The cardiac branches, two or more in number, are given off for the supply of the cardiac end of the stomach, around which they form an anastomotic circle. (3) The gastric branches come off from the artery as it lies between the layers of the lesser omentum, and are distributed to the front and back of the stomach (the lesser anterior and posterior gastric branches), over which they ramify, anastomosing with branches ascending from the right and left gastro-epiploic on the greater curvature. One of these branches of larger size ramifies over the front of the great cid-de-sac, the greater anterior gastric (Macalister), and anastomoses with the vasa brevia and left gastro-epiploic from the splenic. (4) The hepatic branch is a constant small twig passing to the left lobe of the liver, where it anastomoses with the left hepatic artery. Chief variations.—(A) The gastric may arise directly from the aorta, and may then give off one of the phrenics, or both, or a trunk common to the two. (B) There may be two gastric arteries instead of one. (C) The gastric may give off the left branch of the hepatic artery. This appears to be due to the enlargement of the constantly present small hepatic branch, and the obliteration of part of the normal left branch of the hepatic artery. 2. The Hepatic Aeteky The hepatic artery, the largest branch of the coeliac axis in the foetus, but inter- mediate in the adult between the gastric and the splenic, comes off on the right side of the coeliac axis, and, winding upwards and to the right to the transverse or portal fissure of the liver, there breaks up into two chief branches for the supply of the right and left lobe of that organ. It at first courses forwards and to the right j along the upper border of the head of the pancreas, behind the posterior layer of the lesser omental sac of peritoneum, to the upper margin of the duodenum, where, at the base of the so-called right pancreatico-gastric fold, it passes between the two layers of the lesser omentum, and thus ascends along with the hepatic duct which lies to its right, and with the portal vein which lies behind it, to the transverse or portal fissure of the liver. As it lies with the hepatic duct and portal vein between the layers of the lesser omentum, it is in front of the so-called foramen of Winslow. The branches of the hepatic artery are:—(1) The pancreatic; (2) the supe- rior pyloric; (3) the gastro-duodenal; (4) the right terminal; and (5) the left terminal. (1) The pancreatic, or lesser pancreatic branches as they are often called,] come off from the hepatic as it runs along the upper margin of the pancreas, and supply that organ. (2) The superior pyloric comes off from the hepatic just as the latter vessel enters the lesser omentum, and, descending between the two layers of that fold of peritoneum to the pylorus, there turns leftwards, and, ascending from right to left, j anastomoses along the lesser curvature of the stomach, as already mentioned, with the gastric artery, which descends from the opposite direction. i (3) The gastro-duodenal arises from the hepatic a little beyond the pyloric. It descends behind the ascending portion of the duodenum to the lower bordei of the pylorus, where it divides into the right gastro-epiploic and the superioi