1151 THE MALE PEBINjEUM i ;he guide to the urethra, and ' the hne of safety' (on account of the small size of the vessels here) for operations on it. An imaginary line drawn transversely across the perinaBum from one tuber ischii jio its fellow divides the lozenge-shaped space into two triangles—(1) An anterior, j)r urethral; and (2) a posterior, or rectal, '^^'f I The central point of the perinaeum is in the adult nearly an inch in front of he anus, or midway between the centre of the anus and root of the scrotum. Here he following structures meet, viz. the sphincter ani, the two transverse perineal nuscles, the accelerator urin^e, and the levator ani. It also corresponds to the lentre of the lower margin or base of the triangular ligament. Its development aries much in different bodies. A httle in front of this point is the bulb, with the Fig. 696.—Male Perineum. (Roser.) The bulb is slightly raised and the rectum drawn backwards, in order to make clear the Liembranous urethra and prostate, which are shown incised as in the lateral operation of lithotomy. prpus spongiosum passing forwards from it. This would also be the level of the rtery of the bulb, so that in lithotomy the incision should always begin below ais point. A knife introduced at the central point, and carried backwards and jery slightly upwards, should enter the membranous urethra just in front of the jrostate. If pushed more deeply it would enter the neck of the bladder. In lateral thotomy the knife is entered an inch and a half in front of the anus and carried ownwards and outwards for two and a half or three inches into the ischio- pctal fossa, ending a little below and external to the mid-point between the anus jnd tuber ischii. This incision begins deeply and ends more superficially. In jie deeper part of the incision the knife is carried along the staff through the lembranous urethra into the bladder. The parts divided in the operation are—skin, japerficial fascia (both layers), transverse perinaeal vessels and nerves, superficial [erinseal vessels and nerves, inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, transversus