364 THE MUSCLES 8. OPPONENS MINIMI DIGITI The opponens minimi digiti (= flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti)—named from its action—is a triangular fan-shaped sheet. Origin.—(1) From the hook of the miciform bone deeper than the preceding; (2) from the adjacent part of the anterior annular ligament. Insertion.—The whole of the ulnar border and part of the head of the fifth metacarpal bone. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous fibres, the fleshy bundles diverge down- wards and outwards, and are inserted by short tendinous fibres. Nerve-supply.—Through the eighth cervical nerve, from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve which sends filaments to the upper part of its ulnar aspect. Action.—To flex the fifth metacarpal bone, and at the same time slightly to adduct it. This movement is observed when the palm is cupped, as when the hand is used as a scoop to lift water to the mouth. Relations.—Superficially, the abductor and the flexor brevis minimi digiti; and deeply, the interossei of the fourth interspace, and the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Variations.—It may receive a slip from the deep fascia of the forearm. THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE THIGH Superficial fascia.—The greater part of this is of loose adipose tissue, and, without any deep connections, is continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen and back. In the upper and front part of the thigh a deep layer of a mort membranous structure may be distinguished, and this has deep connections where the lower limb joins the trunk, being attached to Poupart's ligament, the crest the ilium, and the deep fascia just below its insertion into the rami of the pubeH and ischium. Below the inner half of Poupart's ligament several lymphatic glands are arranged longitudinally between these two layers of the superficial fascia. The deep fascia or fascia lata is a very strong layer of fibrous tissue, the fibres oi which are arranged for the most part transversely as an aponeurosis of investment but many of them, especially upon the outer side where it is much thicker, art longitudinal, and serve for the insertion of important muscles. The whole of the deep fascia forms a strong cylindrical tube investing all the muscles of the thigh It is attached above, in the groin, to Poupart's ligament, where it blends with the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; on the outer side and behind, to the outei lip of the crest of the ilium, and to the lower part of the vertebral aponeurosis upon the inner side, to the border of the tuberosity and ascending ramus of tbt ischium, to the descending ramus of the pubes, the symphysis pubis, aiK the anterior lip of the crest of the pubes. Below, it becomes much thinner and is continuous with the deep fascia of the leg ; it has also a deep attach ment to the tuberosities of the tibia and the outer surface of the head of th( fibula. The thickening of its outer portion, which passes down like a tendon totht external tuberosity of the tibia, and is also attached to the outer side of th( ligamentum patella3, is called the ilio-tibial band. From the deep surfacf of this great cylindrical tube are given off various processes which assist in th( formation of the sheaths of some of the more superficial muscles. There ar(|