THE KIDNEYS 1047 of the descending colon ; the inner by a layer of peritoneum (of the greater sac) and the colic vessels. The outer border of the kidney reaches a point about three and a half or four jinches external to the lumbar spinous processes. On the right side, it is in contact jwith the liver in its upper half or two-thirds ; on the left, its upper third or half rests jagainst the renal groove in the posterior portion of the visceral surface of the spleen. I The inner border of the right kidney lies close to the vena cava, especially above; that of the left is divided from the aorta by an interval of an inch or more. The position of the kidneys at the back of the abdominal cavity involves a sertain amount of pressure upon the organs and their vessels and nerves by the weight of the viscera in front when the body is supine, and there is reason to believe that their secretory functions are consequently influenced by changes of iposture to an extent that may be utilised in therapeutics. The structures lying within the sinus are the renal artery and vein, the renal Lymphatics (vessels and glands), a plexus of nerves, the duct, and more or less con- lective and adipose tissue continuous with the fatty capsule. The renal artery s a branch of the aorta given off opposite the first lumbar vertebra and behind the Dancreas. On reaching the hilum it breaks up into four or five branches, which generally lie directly in front of the duct, and behind the vein; but irregular vessels nay pierce the gland above or below the hilum, and a branch of the artery not nfrequently passes immediately behind the duct (fig. 607). The left renal vein j'Bceives the spermatic or utero-ovarian vein, and is usually somewhat lower than ihe right. The shortness of the right renal vein should be remembered in the Operation of nephrectomy. Structure.—The kidney when removed from its fatty investment is seen as a ^ellowish-red organ covered by a thin but strong fibrous capsule (tunica propria), vhich is prolonged through the hilum into the sinus, where it becomes continuous vith the sheaths of the renal vessels, and extends as far as the attachments of he subdivisions of the duct around the renal papilla. The whole capsule may )e easily peeled off from the healthy kidney, except at the bottom of the sinus vhere it is fixed by the vessels and duct; and as the capsular vessels are of small iize, the process of stripping is attended with little haemorrhage when practised ,n the course of operations upon the living subject. ! On section through the hilum the renal parenchyma is found to be made up )f two structural elements, the medulla and the cortex ; the former consisting >i a variable number (eight to eighteen) of conical segments called pyramids of ttalpighi, the apices of which project into the bottom of the sinus (fig. 609) and are urrounded by the primary segments (calices) of the duct, while their bases are urned towards the surface, but are separated from it and from each other by 'he cortex. The pyramids average in their axial diameter about three-quarters if an inch, and have a width at the base of about two-thirds of an inch. They J ire smooth and somewhat glistening in section, and marked with delicate striae t ^hich converge from base to apex, and indicate the course of the uriniferous I iibules. The blunted apex, or papilla, single or in association with one or even wo of its fellows, is embraced by a calyx, and if examined with a hand lens will e seen to present forty or fifty minute apertures, the foramina papillaria, through ^hich the secretion escapes into the duct. The cortex may be divided into two portions : a peripheral layer, the cortex roper, which is a little less than half an inch in thickness, and extends from the apsule to the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi; and processes called columnse tertini, which dip inwards between the Malpighian pyramids to reach the bottom i the sinus, where they are covered by the fibrous capsule and more or less adipose issue (fig. 613). In section the cortex is somewhat granular in aspect, and in an ejected kidney is seen to be dotted with minute points corresponding to vascular