THE WBIST AND HAND 1205 superficialis volas, and palmar cutaneous of the median and ulnar pass over it; the Hexor carpi radialis passes through a separate sheath formed by the ligament and the groove in the trapezium ; while beneath the ligament lie the flexor tendons, the median nerve, and accompanying artery. Attached to its upper border is the deep Fig. 749.- -Sbction through Eegion of Wrist, a little above the Joint. SIDE, Upper Half of the Section. (Tillaux.) Eight Plexor carpi radialis Radial arteni Plexor longus pollieis Plexor sublimis Plexor profundus ^ Pronator quadratus RADIAL NERVE^ // Extensor ossis meta- l_[ /f% ' carpi pollieis ^ i ]|:--r- Extensor primi i \ \'\\ internodii pollieis \ yr* ' Extensor carpi radialis longior Extensor carpi radialis brevior Extensor seeundi internodii pollieis Ulnar artery, more internally the NERVE Anterior interosseous artery Flexor carpi ulnaris ULNA Extensor carpi -alnaris Extensor indieis [fascia of the forearm, and to its lower the palmar fascia and the palmaris longus tendon, while from the outer and inner parts arise some of the thenar and hypo- ifchenar muscles. The upper border of the anterior annular ligament corresponds to Fig. 750.—Transverse Section of the Wrist, through the Middle of the Pisiform Bone. Sheath of flexores sublimis and profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollieis, enclosed by true annular ligament Cut tendon of palmaris longus SEMILUNAR BONE ULNAR NERVE Ulnar vesaels Sheath for flexor carpi rad:alis Radial origin of annular ligament Sheath for extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollieis Radial K^sels Sheath for extensor ossis metacarpi j and primi internodii pollieis OS MAGNUM Sheath of extensor sceundi internodii poUicis SCAPHOID Sheath of extensores carpi radialis, longior and brevior Sheath of extensor communis and indicator Sheath of extensor minimi digiti CUNEIFORM UNCIFORM the lower of the two lines which cross the wrist just above the thenar and hypothenar eminences. The large synovial sheath, for all the flexors of the fingers, reaches beneath and below the anterior hgament as far as the middle of the palm, and above the wrist for an inch and a half or two inches.