ADDUCTOR MAGNUS—OBTUBATOB EXTEBNUS 383 Action.—This muscle is the most powerful of the adductors. The upper three )urths of its fibres will also rotate outwards the femur, while that part of the 'lUiscle which arises from the tuber ischii and is inserted into the inner condyle ill tend slightly to rotate the thigh inwards, and will at the same time extend as : ell as adduct the thigh. I Duchenne suggests that this is the part of the muscle which equestrians should I specially develop. Otherwise the adduction of the thighs in gripping the saddle apt to throw out the toes, which is ungainly, and, if the rider have spurs on, |iay lead to unpleasant consequences. : Relations.—In front lie the adductor brevis and longus, and lower down the istus internus. Behind are the hamstring muscles, the gluteus maximus, and the ireat sciatic nerve. At its upper border are the quadratus femoris and obturator kternus. Along its inner border lie the gracilis and part of the sartorius. Variations.—The posterior part of the muscle may form a distinct slip. Accessory indies from the semi-membranosns or biceps may join the lower tendon. The upper rder of the muscle may be blended with the quadratus femoris. 4. GRACILIS The gracilis—named from its form ((/7Ttci/is=slender)—is long and ribbon- aped. Origin.^—The inner edge of the anterior surface of the body and descending us of the OS pubis from about the middle of the symphysis to the junction of e rami of the pubes and ischium. Insertion.—The inner surface of the tibia beloAv its inner tuberosity, between e insertions of the sartorius and the semi-tendinosus. Structure.—Arising by a broad and thin aponeurosis, the muscular fibres pass wn the inner surface of the thigh almost parallel to one another, but with a ■ght convergence, so that the muscle in descending increases in thickness as it minishes in breadth. About two inches above the inner condyle it becomes a unded flattened tendon. This runs behind the inner condyle, and, after forming e of the two hamstring tendons which can be easily felt at the inner border of e popliteal space, it passes forwards to be inserted in a slightly expanded form :low the inner tuberosity. A few fibres pass from its lower border to the deep scia of the leg. Nerve-supply.—From the third and fourth nerves of the lumbar plexus by a ranch from the superficial division of the obturator nerve which enters the deep (irface of the muscle above its middle. >: Action.—To adduct the thigh and flex the knee. When the knee is flexed, it ill help in rotating the leg inwards. Relations.—It lies superficially in its whole course under cover of the fascia ta. Upon its deep surface lie the adductor brevis and magnus, and lower down LB semi-membranosus muscle. It has in front of it the sartorius muscle which i^erlaps it slightly at the lower part of the thigh, and behind it is the tendon of 'le semi-tendinosus. The internal lateral ligament of the knee and a large bursa lie meath its tendon. 5. OBTURATOR EXTERNUS The obturator externus (figs. 286, 289, 290)—named from its attachment to le obturator membrane upon its outer surface—is a triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The inner half of the anterior surface of the obturator membrane ;