THE MUSCLES 432 I will flex the pelvis, rotate it to the opposite side, and by means of its posterior fibres it will act as a lateral flexor of the pelvis. Relations.—Superficially, the external oblique and latissimus dorsi; deeply, the transversalis abdominis. Its lower margin lies for a short distance in front of the inguinal canal, containing the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. The conjoined tendon lies internally beneath these structures. The aponeurosis of the internal oblique is also in relation mth the rectus muscle, of which it forms the sheath in the upper three-fourths of its extent. Variations.—Sometimes the muscle is crossed close to its insertion upon the ribs by tendinous insertions, which probably represent ribs. Ceemaster The cremaster (fig. 285)—named from its action as a suspender of the testicle (Kp^jxaaT-qp a suspender, from Kpefxavw/xL to hang)—is really a detached part of the obliquus internus, forming with the fascia which connects its fibres a thin loop- | shaped band which in the male envelopes the lower part and front of the testicle ' and spermatic cord. In the female it is either entirely absent, or a few fibres upon the front of the round ligament take its place. Origin.—The upper and deep surface of Poupart's ligament about its middle point. Insertion.—(1) The spine, and crest of the pubic bone ; (2) the front of the, fascia propria or infundibuliform fascia, which envelopes the testicle and spermatic cord. Structure.—The fibres, which differ from all other muscles in their scattered and j separate character, spring fleshy from the concavity of Poupart's ligament on the, deep aspect of the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, in continuation of the; origin of the obliquus internus. Three main divisions may be noted:—(1) A series of loops which pass from this origin at different heights in front of the cord and testicle, with their convexities directed downwards, and closely connected; with the fascia propria of the testicle ; finally, they collect into a narrow tendinous \ band, which is attached to the spine and crest of the pubes. (2) A group of; divergent fleshy fibres, which pass from the origin downwards and inwards to be lost upon the fascia propria. (3) A smaller group, which descend from the; tendinous insertion to be lost in a similar manner upon the front of the fascia propria. Between these fleshy fibres, which are often thin and difficult to recognise^ij there is a layer of connective tissue, called the cremasteric fascia, which unites! them and forms one of the coverings of the testicle and cord. Nerve-supply.—The genital branch of the genito-crural, from the first and second lumbar nerves, gives off numerous filaments which enter the muscle upoDj its deep and posterior aspect. | Action.—To raise the testicle, and draw it upv/ards towards the externa]! abdominal ring. This action is involuntary, and is usually of a reflex character; being readily excited by any irritation of the adjacent skin either of the scrotum oi thigh. Relations.—Superficially, the external oblique aponeurosis above, the inter- columnar fascia, dartos, and integuments below; deeply, the spermatic cord anc testicle with its fascia propria.