30 THE SKELETON of the foramen gives attachment behind the condyles to the posterior occipito- atlantal hgament. The condyles are two oval ■ processes of bone, with smooth articular surfaces, covered in the recent state with cartilage. They are received into the superior articular cups of the atlas. The condyles converge anteriorly but diverge posteriorly. Their margins give attachment to capsular ligaments, and a prominent tubercle in the middle of the median border of each condyle is for the check ligament. A foramen, the anterior condyloid, traverses the upper part of each condyle ; it transmits the hypoglossal nerve, and a twig of the ascending pharyngeal artery with its venffi comites. Frequently the foramen is divided by a dehcate spicule of bone. Posterior to each condyle is a depression, posterior condyloid fossa, which receives the hinder edge of the articular cavity of the atlas when the head is extended ; the floor of this depression is occasionally perforated by the posterior condyloid foramen, which transmits a vein from the lateral sinus. Articulations.—The occipital bone is connected by suture with the two parietals, the two temporals, and the sphenoid ; by means of the condyles it articulates with the atlas ; and under the exceptional condition of a tertiary occipital condyle, with the odontoid process of the axis. Muscles.—Attached to the occipital bone :■— Occipito-frontalis. Kectus capitis anticus major. Trapezius. Eectus capitis anticus minor. Sterno-cleido-mastoid. Eectus capitis posticus major. Complexus and biventer cervicis. Eectus capitis posticus minor. Splenius capitis. Eectus capitis lateralis. Superior oblique. Azygos pharyngei (when present). Ligaments:— Ligamentum nuchae. Suspensory ligament. Capsular. Check ligaments. Posterior occipito-atlantal. Vertical slip of the crucial. Anterior occipito-atlantal. Posterior common ligament of spine. Oblique occipito-atlantal. Anterior common ligament of spine. The fibrous bag of the pharynx. Blood-supply.—The occipital bone receives branches from the occipital,* X^osterior auricular, middle meningeal, vertebral and ascending pharyngeal arteries. Development.—The interparietal portion of the occipital is a membrane bone, and arises by two or more centres about the twelfth week ; these nuclei rapidly become confluent and fuse with the supra-occipital portion about the fifteenth week. Occasionally this fusion fails. The centres for the rest of the bone are deposited in cartilage. The nucleus for the basi-occipital appears in the tenth week, and is quickly followed by a nucleus for each ex-occipital; the supra-occipital ossifies from two laterally disposed nuclei, which quickly coalesce and fuse with the inter- parietal portion near the situation of the future occipital protuberance. For many weeks two deep lateral fissures separate the interparietal and supra-occipital por- tions, and a membranous space, extending from the centre of the squamo-occipital to the foramen magnum, partially separates the lateral portions of the supra- occipital. This space becomes occupied by a spicule of bone, and is of interest, because through it hernia of the brain and its membranes, known as meningo- cele or encephalocele, occurs. At birth the occipital consists of four parts: the squamo-occipital, two ■ex-occipitals, and the basi-occipital, united by strips of cartilage. The ex-occipitals