VENOUS SINUSES OF THE CBANIUM 659 falx cerebelli, along the lower half of the squamous portion of the occipital bone from i near the posterior margin of the foramen magnum to the internal occipital protu- berance. It usually begins in a right and left branch, known as the marginal sinuses. These proceed from the termination of each lateral sinus, run round the foramen magnum, where they communicate with the posterior spinal veins, and unite at a I variable distance from the internal occipital protuberance to form the single occipital sinus. Sometimes they remain separate as far as the occipital protuberance, then j forming two occipital sinuses. One or other of the marginal sinuses may be much smaller than the other, or be entirely absent. At the point where the marginal sinuses unite to form the single occipital sinus, there is a communication with the posterior spinal veins. The occipital sinus ends either in one of the lateral sinuses, in the straight sinus, or in the torcular Herophili when this is present. It receives in its course veins from the tentorium cerebelli, and from the inferior surface of the cerebellum. It communicates through the plexus of veins which surrounds the hypoglossal nerve in the anterior condyloid foramen with the vertebral vein and veins of the anterior spinal plexus. (5) The circular sinus, so called (fig. 387), is a venous plexus encircling the hypophysis cerebri, and connecting the right and left cavernous sinuses. The more distinct channels are found, one in front of the sella turcica, one behind, and one on its floor, and are sometimes called the anterior, posterior, and inferior inter- \ cavernous sinuses, the last being also known as the inferior circular sinus of ! Winslow. ! (6) The transverse or basilar sinus (fig. 387) is a venous plexus in the substance I of the dura mater over the basilar process of the occipital bone. It extends from the cavernous sinus to the margin of the foramen magnum below. It communi- cates laterally with the inferior petrosal sinus, and inferiorly with the anterior spinal veins. Through this sinus passes the sixth nerve. One of the larger of the irregular venous channels forming the sinus passes transversely from one inferior petrosal sinus to the other. It is this portion to which the description of the j transverse sinus given by some authors appears to apply. This venous plexus on the basilar process is serially homologous with the anterior spinal plexus of veins on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae. (7) The lateral sinus (fig. 387) extends from the internal occipital protuberance j to the jugular foramen. In this course it lies in the groove (which has been named I after it) along the squamous portion of the occipital bone, the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and the I jugular process of the occipital bone. It at first runs horizontally outwards and forwards between the two layers of the tentorium cerebelli, following the curve of the groove on the occipital and the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bones. In this part of its course it is sometimes known as the transverse sinus, or lateral sinus proper, but on reaching the groove in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone it leaves the tentorium and curves downwards and inwards and then forwards over the jugular process of the occipital bone, and ends in the posterior compart- ment of the jugular fossa in the sinus jugularis or bulb of the internal jugular vein. The S-shaped part of the sinus which lies on the mastoid portion of the temporal and jugular portion of the occipital bone is sometimes known as the sigmoid sinus. The lateral sinus receives the veins from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum, some of the superior and inferior cerebellar veins, some of the veins of the medulla and pons, the occipital and the external parietal veins of the diploe, and at the spot where it leaves the tentorium the superior petrosal sinus and, when present, the petro-squamous sinus. It communicates with the occipital and vertebral veins through the mastoid and posterior condyloid foramina by means of emissary veins. As the lateral sinus lies between the tentorium it is on section prismatic in shape. The sigmoid portion is semicyhndrical. u u 2 i 1