SUBCLAVIAN—INTEBNAL SAPHENOUS 683 form the innominate vein opposite the outer part of the sterno-clavicular articulation. It lies anterior to the subclavian artery and on a lower plane, and is separated from the artery in the second part of its course by the scalenus anticus muscle. The subclavian vein, just before the spot where it is joined by the external jugular, contains a pair of valves. Tributaries.—Near the outer border of the sterno-mastoid muscle it receives the external jugular vein. Occasionally the cephalic vein, or a branch from the cephalic (the jugulo-cephalic), passes over the clavicle to the subclavian (fig. 396). Chief variations.—(1) The subclavian vein may run on a higher plane than usual, lying even above the artery. (2) It may pass with the artery behind the scalenus anticus. (3) It may run behind the scalenus anticus and the artery in front of that muscle. (4) It may split and enclose the scalenus anticus. (5) It may pass between the clavicle and the sub- clavius. (6) It may receive directly the transverse cervical, the suprascapular, the anterior jugular, or the cephalic vein, or the vense comites of the brachial artery. 6. THE VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The veins of the lower extremity are divided into the superficial and the deep. The superficial veins lie in the subcutaneous tissue superficial to the deep fascia, through which they receive numerous communicating branches from the deep veins. They are collected chiefly into two main trunks, which, beginning on the foot, extend upwards, one lying antero-internally, and the other postero- externally. The former finally joins the femoral vein by passing through the deep fascia at the groin; the latter the popliteal by perforating the fascia at the ham. The deep veins, on the other hand, accompany their corresponding arteries. Below the knee there are two veins to each artery; above it, excepting at the back of the thigh, there is only one vein to each artery. All the veins of the lower limb have valves which are more numerous than in the veins of the upper extremity, and in the deep than in the superficial veins. I. THE SUPEBFIGIAL VEINS OF THE LOWEB EXTBEMITY The superficial veins of the lower limb are collected into two main trunks. One, the long or internal saphenous, which is placed antero-internally ; the other, the short or external saphenous, which is placed postero-externally. These veins commence on the dorsum of the foot in an irregular arch, which stretches across the instep with its convexity towards the toes. The arch receives branches from the four outer toes and dorsum of the foot, and one branch of somewhat larger size than the rest from the inner side of the great toe. It also communicates with the ven^ comites accompanying the dorsal artery of the foot (fig. 397). The long or internal saphenous vein commences on the inner side of the foot at the inner end of the above described venous arch,^and, after receiving branches from the sole which join it by turning over the inner border of the foot, passes upwards in front of the inner ankle, and then obliquely upwards and backwards about a finger's breadth from the posterior border of the tibia in company with the internal saphenous nerve, which becomes superficial just below the knee. Continuing its course upwards, it passes behind the internal condyle, and then runs upwards and somewhat outwards on the inner side of the front of the thigh to about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament, where, after receiving the superficial circumflex