THE ABTEBIES 498 On the right side it is in contact, below with the right auricle, and above with the superior vena cava. On the left side are the pulmonary artery and the branches of the right super- j ficial cardiac nerves. ! The Teansverse Poetion of the Aech of the Aoeta ! The transverse portion of the arch of the aorta extends in a gentle curve ' % upwards, backwards, and to the left, from the level of the upper border of the | m second left costal cartilage to the left side of the body of the fourth thoracic \ vertebra. Passing under the arch are the left bronchus, the right pulmonary ' artery, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. It measures about one inch and I ^" four-fifths (4-5 cm.). | Fig. 323.—Scheme of the Relations of the Tra.nsverse Portion of the Arch of the Aorta. ' RIGHT PLEURA RIGHT LUNG THORACIC DUCT RECURRENT LARYNGEAL NERVE -Left subclavian artery Left superior intercostal vein ^PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE CARDIAC BRANCHES OF SYMPATHETIC CARDIAC BRANCHES OF PNEUMOGASTRIO PHRENIC NERVE LEFT LUNG LEFT PLEURA Relations.—In front (fig. 323), it is slightly overlapped by the right pleura and , lung, and to a greater extent by the left pleura and lung. It is crossed in the following order from right to left, by the phrenic nerve, by the cardiac branches of the pneumogastric nerve, the cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, by the: pneumogastric nerve, and by the left superior intercostal vein as it passes up to the left innominate vein. Behind it (fig. 823), are the trachea, the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, the deep; cardiac plexus which is situated on the trachea just above its bifurcation, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Above it (fig. 321) are the three chief branches for the head, neck, and uppei extremities, namely, the innominate, the left carotid and the left subclaviai; arteries, and the left innominate vein. Below it—that is, in its concavity—are the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery the left bronchus, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, the remains of the ductu arteriosus, the superficial cardiac plexus, and two or more bronchial lymphatij glands (fig, 321). ' i