328 THE MUSCLES it receives the broad band of the bicipital fascia ; and behind, the aponeurotic inser-1 tion of the triceps. In the bend of the elboAV it is pierced by a communicating | vein. On the outer side and back of the forearm the deep fascia has numerous connections mth the longitudinal ridges of the lower end of the radius and ulna. It also becomes much thickened by the addition of transverse bands, so as to form the posterior annular ligament, which passes from the outer border of the lower end of the radius, inwards and at the same time a little downwards, to the ulnar border of the carpus, where it is attached to the inner side of the pisiform and cuneiform bones. On its anterior surface this ligament is attached to the j ridges upon the back of the lower extremity of the radius, and so forms canals | through which pass the tendons of the long muscles upon the radial border and' posterior surface of the forearm. The ligament is also in contact with the lower | end of the ulna, which it binds in its place, much in the same manner as the head! of the radius is held in position by means of the orbicular ligament, but it has noi insertion into this bone. I In the front of the wrist the deep fascia forms a thin layer, which overlies thej anterior annular ligament. The latter is sometimes described as a thickening of the same fascia, but really it is continuous with a thin aponeurosis which separates the first and second layers of the muscles of the forearm shortly to be described, j It is a strong band of fibrous tissue, which stretches transversely from the pisiform: bone and unciform process on the ulnar side of the carpus to the scaphoid andj the trapezium on the radial side. MUSCLES OF THE FEONT OF THE FOEEAEM The muscles upon the front of the forearm form four planes or layers : the first two layers having their origins from the front of the internal condyle ; the last tw^o from the bones of the forearm alone. j First Layer \ The first layer consists of four muscles—the pronator radii teres, flexoi; carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor carpi ulnaris—which all arise by a common tendon from the front of the internal condyle, and by separate attach-] ments from the deep fascia of the forearm and the intermuscular septa ; whilej the innermost and outermost have additional origins from the ulna. 1. PEONATOR EADII TERES ! The pronator radii teres—named from its action and somewhat cylindrica. shape—is a thick ribbon-shaped muscle. I Origin.—First head : (1) by the common tendon from the front of the internaj condyle ; and (2) from about half an inch of the lowest part of the internal condylar ridge ; (3) from the deep fascia covering it, and the intermuscular septunj which separates it from the flexor carpi radialis and the flexor sublimis digitorum. Second head : from the inner border of the coronoid process. Insertion.—The rough impression on the middle of the outer surface of th( radius. ! Structure.—The higher of the two heads, which is much the larger, arises partkj by a short tendon, and partly by muscular fibres, and is separated from the lowei head by a small tendinous arch through which passes the median nerve. Th lower head, which lies concealed by the rest of the muscle, arises by a small