23 THE VEETEBBJE The sixth and seventh vertebrse.—In the cervical vertebrae the pedicles, or anterior extremities of the neural arches, take a much larger share in forming the centrum than is the case with the remaining vertebrae. The sixth, seventh, and possibly other cervicaJ vertebrae present an additional centre on each side of the neural arch for the costal process ; it appears before birth. The costal processes of the seventh cervical not infrequently fail to ankylose with the vertebra; when this is the case, the processes become cervical ribs. Sometimes these ribs are of large size. The lumbar vertebrae.—In the lumbar vertebrae two additional centres make their appearance, about puberty, namely, for the mammillary tubercles on the posterior aspect of each superior articular process. Fig. 27.—An Immature Cervical Vertebra. NEURO-CENTRAL SUTURE The fiftli lumbar occasionally differs in the mode of ossification of its arch ; in many skeletons this arch is derived from four nuclei. There is a nucleus on each side for the pedicle, the transverse process, and the superior articular process ; and one on each side for the lamina, inferior articular process, and the lateral half of the spinous process (fig. 28). The pedicles may fail to join the laminae ; more rarely the laminae fail to fuse (fig. 16). Fig. 28.—Ossification of the Fifth Lumbar Vertebra. LAMINA SUTURE PEDICLE NEURO-CENTRAL SUTURE CENTRUM The sacral vertebrae.—In addition to the three primary vertebral centres, the three upper sacral vertebrae have each an extra pair corresponding to the costal processes of the seventh cervical vertebra. These processes are very large in the first sacral, smaller in the second, and very small in the third. Although the various primary centres of the sacral vertebrae appear much later than in other regions of the column, yet they are all visible at birth. The centrum of each sacral vertebra develops a superior and inferior epiphysial meniscus, and eventually the five vertebrae fuse to form a single bone, the sacrum. Even in advanced life the intervertebral discs between the sacral vertebrae persist in the centre of the bone. The ear-shaped lateral articular facet on the side of the sacrum arises from two additional centres on each side, about the eighteenth year. The total number of ossific centres for the sacrum is thirty-five.