SOLAB PLEXUS 871 pyloric, right gastro-epiploic, and pancreatico-duodenal plexuses. From the right hepatic plexus a cystic plexus is furnished to the gall-bladder. The coronary plexus follows the lesser curvature of the stomach, proceeding from left to right. In this course it is joined by branches from the left pneumo- gastric, and, after giving off numerous twigs to the stomach, ends, near the pylorus, by joining the pyloric plexus. I The diaphragmatic plexuses arise from the upper extremities of the semilunar gangha, and accompany the diaphragmatic arteries to the under surface of the diaphragm. On the right side a communication is effected with the phrenic nerve, a small ganglion (ganglion diaphragmaticum) being formed at the point of commu- nication. The suprarenal plexuses are derived, in part from the diaphragmatic, in part from the solar, and in part from the renal plexuses ; they are distributed chiefly to the medullary portions of the suprarenal bodies. The renal plexuses are formed by branches of the solar and aortic plexuses, j and are joined posteriorly by the smallest splanchnic nerves. Each renal plexus I surrounds the corresponding renal artery, and enters the hilum of the kidney, where it subdivides in the fatty tissue which occupies the sinus, and enters the substance of the kidney with the blood-vessels. The superior mesenteric plexus is of large size, and is remarkable for the comparatively white colour of the nerves which compose it. It is derived from I the solar plexus, and, after emerging from under cover of the pancreas, closely I surrounds the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. In this situation a few j ganglia (ganglia mesenterica) are formed. Having given off branches, which accompany the colica media, colica dextra, and ileo-colic arteries, the greater part of the plexus enters the mesentery, where the nerves—no longer closely following the blood-vessels, spread out between the layers of the mesentery, and eventually j reach the small intestine. I The aortic plexus is in the form of two vast networks of nerves which are massed along the sides of the abdominal aorta, and are connected by commu- nicating branches which pass across the front of the great vessel. It is formed I mainly by the downward continuation of the solar plexus, but receives strong reinforcements from the upper three lumbar ganglia. It gives off the spermatic and inferior mesenteric plexuses, and terminates below in strong branches to the hypogastric plexus. The inferior mesenteric plexus is much smaller than the superior mesenteric plexus, but, like the latter, is remarkable for its whitish colour. It is derived from the aortic plexus, and is conveyed by the branches of the inferior mesenteric artery I to the descending colon, the sigmoid flexure, and to the upper part of the rectum. In the latter situation it communicates with the pelvic plexuses. ; The spermatic plexus is derived from the aortic and renal plexuses. It accom- panies the spermatic artery as far as the internal abdominal ring, where it is joined j by a fine plexus derived from the pelvic plexus and accompanying the vas deferens. [ Thus reinforced, it is conducted by the spermatic cord to the testicle. ; In the female it accompanies the ovarian vessels to the ovary and uterus. [ HYPOGASTEIC PLEXUS From the lower ganglia of the lumbar sympathetic cord, two or three strong I branches proceed which cross obliquely in front of the common iliac arteries. These nerves are joined by stout offsets from the aortic plexus, and interlace in front of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra with the corresponding nerves of the opposite side to form a broad flattened band, which is termed the hypogastric plexus. This plexus is remarkable in that it contains little or no ganglionic matter. It soon [ divides into two lateral portions, the pelvic or inferior hypogastric plexuses. I