1061 THE TESTICLES under the influence of cold and of mental emotion, but are not affected by electricity. 'Tbey become relaxed in conditions of general enfeeblement. (2) The external spermatic or ' inter columnar' fascia consists of a fatless, aminated connective tissue, within and closely adherent to the dartos, blending t the external inguinal opening with the strong fibrous bands crossing the columns f the ring, and prolonged, like the dartos, over the ]3enis and perinc^um. It is ontinuous behind with the deep layer of the superficial perinfeal fascia, and above ith the superficial fascia over the symphysis. (3) The cremasteric or middle spermatic fascia is a well-defined fibro-muscular xpansion covering the cord and testicle. It consists of a strong double lamina of reolar and elastic tissue enclosing and connecting longitudinal bundles of striped uscle, the fibres of which may be traced above to the external inguinal ring, here they are divided into three principal sets : an inner, attached to the pubic pine, an outer to that portion of the external oblique which forms the external Fig. 621.—Horizontal Section of the Scrotum and Testicle. (Diagrammatic.) Septum scroti — MEDIASTINUM TESTIS' VAS DEFERENS Skin Dartos External spermatic fascia Cremasteric fascia Parietal layer of tunica vaginalis Internal spermatic fascia and subperitoneal fascia - Cavity of tunica vaginalis Visceral layer of tunica vaginaUs Tunica albuginea Digital fossa illar of the ring, and an intermediate slip continuous with the lower border of the ternal oblique, and sometimes also with the transversalis. Below, the tunic lends with the dartos opposite the lower extremity of the testicle. The cremaster ntracts during convulsive expiratory actions of the abdominal muscles and under motional influences. (4) The internal spermatic or ' infundibuliform' fascia is a delicate connective ssue derived from the fascia transversalis, and within this will be seen (5) a ■minated prolongation of the subperitoneal tissue closely investing the elements f the cord above the limits of the tunica vaginalis. (6) The tunica vaginalis is intimately connected with the testicle, and will be escribed after that organ (page 1062). Vessels and Nerves.—The skin and dartos are supplied by branches of the xternal pudic and superficial perinasal arteries, while the cremaster receives a pecial branch from the deep epigastric ; the corresponding veins communicate with e pudic, the long saphenous, and the dorsal vein of the penis. The lymphatics rminate in the innermost set of the inguinal glands (the lymphatics of the testicle self passing to the lumbar glands). The nerves are derived from the genito- rural and superficial perinatal. THE TESTICLES.—The testicles (fig. 622), two in number, are suspended from the guinal region by the spermatic cords. The left is supposed to hang somewhat wer than the right in the majority of persons. Each gland consists of two