BHOMBOIDEI-LATISSIMUS DOBSI 307 Insertion.—The vertebral border of the scapula opposite the infraspinous fossa. Structure.—At the origin, of short tendinous fibres, succeeded by parallel fleshy bundles, which pass downwards and outwards to a narrow tendinous expansion ,vhich is feebly attached to the scapula over the upper three-fourths of its insertion, )ut with thick and strong fibres near the inferior angle of that bone, i Nerve-supply.—The same as the preceding, and entering the upper part of the jleep surface near its insertion. Action.—The rhomboidei draw the scapula inwards and backwards towards he middle line, and at the same time upwards. They also rotate the scapula so Ls to depress the point of the shoulder. In this way they, together with the levator ^nguli scapulae, will help in drawing down the arm, after it has been elevated hrough the rotation of the scapula by the trapezius and serratus magnus. Acting from the scapula, the rhomboidei will help the trapezius in drawing the aiddle line of the back towards that bone. Relations of the two rhomboidei.—Superficially, the trapezius and, at the lower )art of the rhomboideus major, the deep fascia, and latissimus dorsi; deeply, the lerratus posticus superior, splenius colli, the vertebral aponeurosis covering the ipper continuations of the erector spinae, the external intercostals, and the posterior capular vessels. Variations.—The rhomboideus minor is frequently absent, and occasionally there is no liomboideus major. The fibres of the latter muscle may be inserted almost entirely into he lower angle of the scapula. Occasionally its lower fibres join those of the latissimus orsi, and tliey have also been found continuous with a part of the teres major. An ccessory band may join the rhomboidei from the occipital bone (the occipito-scapularis). 4. LATISSIMUS DORSI The latissimus dorsi (figs. 262, 269)—named from its being the broadest of the :ack muscles—is a fan-shaped sheet forming a right-angled triangle, the right angle leing contained between its upper and vertebral borders. Origin.—(1) The five or six lower thoracic spines, and the supraspinous liga- aents; (2) the lower part of the vertebral aponeurosis (see account of Lumbae 'AsciA, page 434), by Avhich it is attached to the spines of all the lumbar and acral vertebrae ; (3) the posterior third of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium ; i) horizontal lines crossing the outer surface of the last three or four ribs external 0 their angles (these lines by their lower borders give origin to processes of the xternal oblique muscle, which thus interdigitates with the latissimus dorsi); (5) the orsal aspect of the inferior angle of the scapula. 1 Insertion.—The bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus, as far upwards s the lesser tuberosity. Structure.—Its first and third parts arise by short tendinous fibres. The origin f the second part from the vertebral aponeurosis is by fleshy fibres in a line which escends obliquely downwards and outwards from the last thoracic spme to the ack of the crest of the ilium. Its origin from the ribs and scapula is muscular, he fleshy fibres are of nearly equal length, and they converge upon the tendon in ich a way that those which arise from the ribs and crista ilii are inserted highest ito the humerus, while those which spring from the thoracic spine are attached j) the lower part of the bicipital groove. The broad sheet wraps round the side !^ the thorax, and is also folded upon itself, so that the anterior surface at the rigin becomes the posterior at the insertion. A groove is thus formed, in which e the outer border of the scapula and the teres major. The tendon of the teres lajor is usually attached at the borders to that of the latissimus dorsi by strong )nnective tissue ; but a bursa intervenes between them near their insertion. x2