466 THE MUSCLES Action.—To draw downwards and somewhat outwards the angle of the mouth, giving an expression of sorrow to the face, making the individual look * down in the mouth.' Relations.—The skin superficially ; deeply, the depressor labii inferioris and inferior coronary artery. Labial Group of Muscles The labial set consist of three muscles, which form a continuous sheet and I might fairly be included under one name, passing downwards from the maxilla; | and a single muscle passing upwards from the mandible. Both sets are inserted into the lips, and especially into that part of them which intervenes between the middle line and a point half way between this and the corner of the mouth. The upper set is formed by the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, the levator labii superioris, and the zygomaticus minor; the lower set by the depressor labii inferioris. 1. LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL^QUE NASI The levator labii superioris alaeque nasi—named from its action as an elevator of the upper lip and the nostril—is a somewhat triangular sheet, bifurcating below at the base which corresponds to the insertion of the muscle. It belongs to the superficial sheet of facial muscles. Origin.—The anterior half of the outer surface of the nasal process of the maxilla. Insertion—(1) The deep surface of the skin which covers the lower part of the ala nasi; (2) the deep surface of the skin, and the general muscular mass, of the inner half of the upper lip. Structure.—Arising fleshy, its fibres diverge somewhat as they pass downwards; they then decussate with those of the orbicularis oris close to the prolabium. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, which sends filaments to the outer part of the deep surface of the muscle. Action.—(1) To raise and dilate the nostril; (2) to raise the inner half of the upper lip. ' Relations.—Superficially, the skin and orbicularis palpebrarum ; deeply, the compressor narium and levator anguli oris. 2. LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS ; The levator labii superioris—named from its action—is a nearly square sheet, : and it belongs to the superficial layer of muscles. j i Origin.—The front of the maxilla just below the rim of the orbit. ' 1 Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin and the subjacent muscular tissue neari ii the upper edge of the inner half of the upper prolabium. I Structure.—Its fibres, arising fleshy, descend parallel to one another and almost : I vertically to their insertion, where they interlace with the fibres of the orbicularis' iij oris. It frequently receives at its outer border some bundles of fibres from th^ orbicularis palpebrarum. 1 Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facia} nerve, which sends filaments to the outer part of its deep surface. ' Action.—To raise the inner half of the upper lip. This muscle, with its tw(| j fellows, the preceding and following, is especially used in the expression of grief| J