196 TRE ABTICULATIONS (/>) The Articulations between the Atlas and Axis -, m T \ T (Class.—Diarthrosis. 1. The Lateral Atlanto-axoidean Joints. « , t . . . I Subdivision.—^r^/^7•of/^(^. c rn n A . (Class.—DiartJirosis. 2. The Central Atlanto-axoidean Joint, t • • rr, i -i {Subdivision.—Trochoides. The bones that enter mto the formation of the lateral jomts are the mferioi articular processes of the atlas and the superior of the axis ; the central joint i> formed by the odontoid process articulating in front with the atlas, and behiiK with the transverse ligament. The ligaments which unite the axis and atlas are :— 1. The anterior atlanto-axoidean. 3. Two capsular (for lateral joints). 2. The posterior atlanto-axoidean. 4. The transverse ligament. 5. The atlanto-odontoid capsular ligament. The anterior atlanto-axoidean ligament (figs. 195, 196) is a narrow but strong membrane filling up the interval between the lateral joints. It is attached, above; to the front surface and lower border of the anterior arch of the atlas, and beW) to the transverse ridge on the front of the body of the axis. Its fibres are verticalj and are thickened in the median line by a dense band which is a continuatioil upwards of the anterior common ligament of the spine. i This prolongation is fixed above to the anterior tubercle of the atlas, where r becomes continuous with the central part of the anterior occipito-atlantal (fig 195); it is sometimes separated by an interval from the deeper ligament, and if often described as the superficial atlanto-axoidean ligament. It is in relation witl; the longus colli muscle. The posterior atlanto-axoidean ligament (fig. 195) is a deeper, but thinne] and looser membrane than the anterior. It extends from the posterior root of th( transverse process of one side to that of the other, projecting outwards beyond the posterior part of the capsules which are connected with it. It is attached abovi to the posterior surface and lower edge of the posterior arch of the atlas, and below to the superior edge of the laminje of the axis on their dorsal aspect. I is denser and stronger in the median line, and has a layer of elastic tissue orj its anterior surface like the ligamenta subflava, to which it corresponds ii' position. It is connected in front with the dura mater ; behind, it is in relatior with the inferior oblique muscles, and is perforated at each side by the secom cervical nerve. 1. The Lateral Atlanto-axoidean Joints are provided with short, liga mentous fibres, forming capsular ligaments (fig. 195), which completely sur, round the lateral articular facets. Outside the canal, they are attached som(j little distance from the articular margins, extending along the roots of th(| transverse processes of the axis nearly as far as the tips, but between the roots the;j skirt the inner edge of the costo-vertebral foramina. They are strengthened in froni and behind by the atlanto-axoidean ligaments. Internally each capsule is thinnerj and attached close to the articular margins, being strengthened behind by i strong band of slightly oblique fibres passing upwards along the outer edge of tbl cervico-basilar ligament from the body of the axis to the lateral mass of thJ atlas behind the transverse ligament; some of these fibres pass on, thickenin^i and blending with the occipito-atlantal capsule, getting inserted into the margin the foramen magnum. This band is sometimes called the accessory band (fig. 199)1 There is a synovial sac for each joint.