SUBGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1120 circles ' of later life. (2) Areolar tissue. Owing to its looseness and delicacy, it is very liable to infiltration, as in ascites and erysipelas. (3) Orbicularis. Paralysis of this, the palpebral portion, leads to epiphora, the pimcta being no longer kepti applied against the eye. (4) Palpebral ligament, reaching from the orbit to the tarsal | cartilage. This is usually strong enough to prevent heemorrhage, due to fractured i base of skull, becoming subcutaneous. (5) Levator palpebrse. (6) Tarsal cartilage I In reality, densely felted fibrous tissue. (7) Meibomian glands, lashes, and sebaceous | follicles. Localised inflammation starting in any of these three structures, especialh: the last, will cause a ' stye.' The frequency with which the lid-border is the seat oj; that most troublesome chronic inflammation, blepharitis, and its result ' blear eye, j is explained by these anatomical points. Its circulation is terminal and slow; haLi skin and half mucous membrane, it is moister and more liable to local irritatiori than the skin ; while its numerous glands readily participate in any inflammation | Fig. 667.—The Lachrymal Apparatus and Nasal Duct. (Bellamy.) (Bristles are introduced into the puncta lachrymalia.) LOWER TURBINATED BONE Orifice of nasal duct (8) The conjunctiva.—The differing structure of the palpebral and ocular portio has important bearings. Thus the palpebral is thick, highly vascular, and ver sensitive. To the vascularity we owe the chemosis, or hot, red, tense swelling c purulent ophthalmia. The exquisite suffering of the same disease, or that cause by a foreign body, is explained by the numerous nerve-papillaB. To the thicknes and abundance of the connective tissue are due the contraction and permane' thickening which may occur in granular lids. The so-called granulations, met wit in this disease on the palpebral conjunctiva, are really little nodules of hypertrophie lymphoid follicles, or mucous glands, which abound here. The position of the lachrymal puncta should be noted: owing to their back ward direction the lids must be previously everted. The puncta are kept open by minute fibrous ring. The lachrymal sac is the most important of the lachrym? apparatus, from its disfiguring diseases ; it lies in a bony groove, between th nasal process of the maxilla and the lachrymal bone. The tendo oculi crosse it a little above its centre. Thus two-thirds of the sac are below the tendon, an in suppuration the opening is made below it also. The angular artery ascend i