THE OBGANS OF CIBCULATION 972 semilunar valves, which are similar in structure, but present more strongly marked characters than are to be found in the corresponding valves of the pulmonary artery. Two of these segments are placed anteriorly, the right being slightly in advance of the left; and one is placed posteriorly and slightly to the right. It is surrounded by a fibrous ring similar to that which strengthens the pulmonary orifice. The auriculo-ventricular opening is guarded by the bicuspid valve. Its two unequal segments are larger and thicker than those on the right side of the heart, though the orifice itself is somewhat smaller, and they are similarly separated by smaller lobes or cusps. Of the two segments, the one, which is the larger and the more free and smooth, is placed in front and to the right between the two openings, whilst the other lies behind and to the left. The fibrous ring surrounding the orifice serves to give attachment to muscular fibres as well as to the valves. By its right border it is tied to the aortic ring by fibrous tissue, which also extends to the ring surrounding the tricuspid valve. In the angular space thus bounded there is imbedded a fibro-cartilage, which in some mammals is represented by a bone which is known as the os cordis. The Position of the Chief Oeifices one to the other and TO the Chest Wall The pulmonary orifice is placed in front of, and to the left of the right auriculo- ■ ventricular opening, whilst the aortic orifice is in front of, and to the right of the ! left auriculo-ventricular opening. The relation of the valved orifices to the chest i wall can only be approximately determined. The pulmonary semilunar valves, which are anterior in position to the aortic, , are placed behind the junction of the third rib with the sternum on the left side. The aortic semilunar valves, more deeply placed, correspond to the third space, j close to the sternum. The tricuspid valve is situated behind the sternum near the middle line, about j the level of the fourth costal cartilage. The mitral valve lies deeply behind the third intercostal space about an inch to - the left of the sternum. ; The muscular walls of the heart vary very much in thickness, and the foetal i differs from the adult heart in the relative muscularity of its chambers. The right auricle is thinner than the left, the right measuring about one-twelfth j of an inch, and the left about one-eighth of an inch in thickness. The right ventricular wall in the adult is much thinner than the left, being thickest at the base, and thinnest at the apex. The left ventricular w^all is about double the thickness of the right; and it is thickest where it is broadest, being thinner both at its base and apex. The Vessels and Neeves j The arteries.—The two coronary arteries, right and left, arise from the aorta just above the free borders of the right and left semilunar valves. The right coronary artery passes forwards between the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix, and then winds to the right border of the heart, around which it turns to gain its posterior surface. In this course it lies in the auriculo- ventricular groove. At the commencement of the posterior interventricular groove it divides into its two main branches, one of which, still passing onwards in the auriculo-ventricular groove, anastomoses with the left coronary, whilst the other (interventricular) descends in the furrow between the ventricles towards the apex, near which it anastomoses with branches derived from the left coronary artery which have reached the posterior surface of the heart after passing around its apex, i