THE ABTEBIES 584 oesophagus and trachea, and is occasionally found to anastomose on the oesophagus with the arteria aberrans of the superior intercostal artery. It is regarded as the remains of the right aortic dorsal stem (fig. 345). THE ABDOMINAL AOETA The abdominal aorta (fig. 363), the continuation of the descending or thoracic aorta, begins at the aortic opening in the diaphragm opposite the lower border of the Fig. 363.—The Abdominal Aorta and its Branches, with the Inferior Vena Cava and its Tributaries. Cystic arte) u HEPATIC DUCT CYSTIC DUCT COMMON DUCT — Forlal vein Oastro-cluodenal hr. Superior pylor t Hepatic arteni Right suprarenal vein Inferior suprarenal artery Renal arte) r Renal vein Inferior vena cava KIDNEY RigJit spermatic vein Right spermatic artt^ry Quadratus lumborum muscle Lumbar artery and vein Ureteric branch of spermatic artei y Middle sacral vessels LEFT LOBE OF LIVER (ESOPHAGUS Left phrenic artery Right phrenic artery Superior suprarenal Gastric artery Inferior suprarenal Splenic artery Left phrenic vein Left suprarenal vein Superior mesenteric artery KIDNEY Ureteric branch of renal Left spermatic vein URETER Left spermatic artery Inferior mesenteric artery Ureteric branch of spermatic Ureteric branch of common iliac Commo7i iliac artery External iliac artery Internal iliac artery twelfth thoracic vertebra, and ends opposite the lower border of the body of the fourth \ lumbar vertebra by dividing into the right and left common iliac arteries. It is at s first centrally placed between the pillars of the diaphragm, but as it descends in | front of the lumbar vertebra it leaves the middle hne, and, at its bifurcation, hes a little to the left side of the spine. The spot at which the aorta bifurcates is, for all practical purposes, roughly indicated on the surface of the abdomen by a point | about half an inch below and a little to the left of the umbilicus. But the level of its bifurcation may be more accurately determined by a line drawn across the front I