THE COLON lOOD The transverse colon.—The transverse colon, smaller m diameter than the !ascending, extends from the imder sm^face of the liver to the spleen. Being [longer than a straight line between these two points, it has to describe an arch , [with its convexity forwards ; it also bends a little downwards. It crosses through the umbilical region from the right hypochondrium to the left hypochondrium (fig. 565). In the majority of cases the superficial part of the colic arch—as seen before J [the viscera are disturbed—is either in whole or in greater part above a straight line drawn transversely across the body between the highest points of the iliac crest, i [In the proportion of one to four it lies, in whole or in greater part, below this line f%. 582). Certain remarkable bends are sometimes formed by this part of the bowel. [The bending is always in the same direction, namely, downwards, and is usually jj jibrupt and angular. The apex of the V or U-shaped bend thus formed may f |reach the pubes. This bend appears to be due to two distinct causes: namely,. long continued distension on the one hand, and to congenital malformation on the 3ther. , The transverse colon is in relation above with the liver and gall bladder, :he stomach, and at its left extremity with the spleen. The third portion of the luodenum passes behind it. Below are the coils of the small intestine. It is RUTOunded with peritoneum, being connected with the posterior abdominal wall by li meso-colon. The descending colon extends from the spleen to the sigmoid flexure. It m nore movable than the ascending colon. It is also narrower. At its beginning t is connected with the diaphragm, at a level with the tenth and eleventh ribs, by a 'old of peritoneum, the costo-colic ligament (or sustentaculum lienis, from the fact hat it supports the spleen). The bend between the transverse colon and descending jolon is called the splenic flexure. The descending colon is situated in the left lypochondriac and lumbar regions (fig. 591). Its relations to the peritoneum are he same as obtain with the ascending colon, that is, it is covered in front and on he sides. A meso-colon is met with oftener on this side than on the right. In )ne hundred dissections it was found thirty-six times. The descending colon is jiovered in front by the small intestine ; behind, are part of the diaphragm, the left ddney, and the quadratus lumborum muscle (fig. 577). The sigmoid flexure and rectum.—The segment of gut termed the sigmoid lexure, and the so-called first part of the rectum, form together a single simple oop that cannot be divided into parts. This loop begins where the descending olon ends, viz. in the left iliac fossa, and ends at the commencement of the o-called second piece of the rectum—at the spot, where the meso-rectum ceases, opposite about the third piece of the sacrum in the median line. The loop when infolded describes a figure that may be compared to the capital omega. The iverage length of this sigmoid or omega loop is seventeen inches and a half. The lormal position of the loop is not in the left iliac fossa, but wholly in the pelvis, 'he most common disposition of it may be now described. I The descending colon ends just at the outer border of the psoas. The gut here [iiddenly changes its direction, and the sigmoid or omega loop begins (figs. 565, 77). The bowel crosses the muscle at right angles and about midway between the im^bo-sacral eminence and Poupart's ligament. It now descends vertically along- he left pelvic wall, and may at once reach the pelvic floor. It then passes more (r less horizontally and transversely across the pelvis from left to right, and [ommonly comes into contact with the right pelvic wall. At this point it is •ent upon itself, and, passing once more towards the left, reaches the middle line nd descends to the anus. It will lie therefore in more or less direct contact i^th the bladder and uterus, and may possibly touch the caecum. It is very closely