THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 740 and the nucleus lenticularis ; the claustra, and the amygdaloid nuclei. The optic thalami are in close proximity to the corpora striata, but belong to the thalam- encephalon. Certain important fasciculi of white matter are intimately related to the corpora striata. The chief of these white fasciculi are the inner and outer capsules, the anterior commissure, and the taenia semicircularis. The nucleus caudatus is an elongated mass of grey matter somewhat resembling a pear with a long curved stalk. It presents a free, or ventricular, surface, and a surface which is embedded in the hemisphere. It is thickest at the anterior end, or head. The free surface of the anterior thickened portion looks upwards and inwards, and bulges into the anterior horn of the lateral ventricle. From thence it ascends with an inclination outwards to the body of the ventricle, where it forms i the outermost constituent of the floor of that cavity, and narrows into the com- mencement of the tail. In this situation it is separated from the optic thalamus by the lamina cornea and taenia semicircularis. The tail of the nucleus caudatus then j passes into the descending cornu. It is placed at first in front of the cornu, after- ' wards forms part of the roof of that cavity, and ends at the amygdaloid tubercle. The deep surface of the caudate nucleus is separated from the nucleus lenticularis by a layer of white matter called the inner ca.psule. The two nuclei are, however, connected by bands of grey matter which intersect the fibres of the anterior limb of the inner capsule, and are directly continuous for a short distance in front. The nucleus lenticularis is embedded in the substance of the hemisphere except at the base of the brain, where it comes to the surface for a small part of its extent at the anterior perforated space. Here it is continuous externally with the claustrum and, as before stated, with the nucleus caudatus. In horizontal section it appears like a bi-convex lens, with its surface directed outwards and inwards, the outer surface forming a curve of larger radius than the inner. In sagittal section the lenticular nucleus is also somewhat lens-shaped in outline (fig. 417). In coronal sections through the anterior part it appears crescentic, with the convexity turned downwards and outwards (fig. 415); but in successive sections taken from before backwards the crescentic gives place to a triangular or wedge-shaped outline (fig. 421). In fresh brains this grey mass can be seen to be traversed by thin white intersections, the internal and external medullary laminae, which divide it into three zones. The middle and inner zones are of a yellowish grey colour, and constitute the globus pallidus. The outer zone is of a darker reddish grey, and is traversed with fine white striae. It is called the putamen. The putamen is the longest part of the lenticular nucleus, and is the only portion of that body which is continuous with the caudate nucleus. The above agrees substantially with the account which is given by Schwalbe; this anatomist, however, describes the amygdaloid nucleus as discontinuous with the tail of the caudate nucleus. According to Foster and Sherrington, the globus pallidus of the lenticular [ nucleus as well as the putamen is continuous with the caudate nucleus. A band of white fibres, the ansa lenticularis, passes inwards below the inner capsule. It emerges from the under surface of the lenticular nucleus, being continued from the . medullary laminae. It also receives fibres from the inner segment of the globus pallidus. The ansa lenticularis enters the subthalamic region and passes beneath the red nucleus, | where it becomes indistinct. [ The claustrum is a thin band of grey matter which is placed, nearly vertically, ' external to the lenticular nucleus, and separated from the latter, except at its lower I part, by the outer capsule. It is separated from the grey matter of the island of Eeil by a layer of white matter, into which it sends small pointed processes ; corresponding to the gyri operti of the island. It is fused at its anterior end with i the amygdaloid nucleus. (Hill.) The amygdaloid nucleus is a thickening of the grey cortex of the apex of the temporal lobe, and produces a bulging (amygdaloid tubercle) into the roof of the j extremity of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. j