THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 782 opposite side, entering into the sensory or superior pyramidal decussation (decus- satio lemnisci). From thence it ascends brainwards. The boundary zone of Lissauer is formed by the most lateral fibres of the posterior roots, which ascend for a short distance in that zone, and then leave it to enter the posterior horn. Burdach's column contains {a) sensory fibres from Clarke's colmnn ; (b) root fibres from the posterior roots ; and (c) longitudinal commissural fibres. (a) The fibres from Clarke's column have already been described in connection with the | lateral ground bundle. They are derived from the posterior roots, ascend only for | a very short distance in Burdach's column, and leave it again to join the posterior I or sensory part of the lateral ground bundle, (b) The fibres which are directly | derived from the posterior roots pass upwards; some enter GoU's column, others \ ascend to the nucleus cuneatus in the medulla. These fibres, after suffering | an interruption in the nerve-cells of the cuneate nucleus and nucleus of the clava, j divide into two groups ; one group decussates at the decussatio lemnisci, and goes , to swell the tract of the fillet ; the other goes to the restiform body, chiefly in the i form of arciform fibres, (c) The longitudinal commissural fibres originate ^nd ! terminate in the grey matter of the posterior horns, and thus unite groups of nerve- ' cells occupying different levels in the spinal cord. GoU's column is formed of longitudinal commissural fibres similar to the set (c) I in Burdach's column, inasmuch as they unite groups of nerve-cells which are ij placed at different levels in the posterior horns. They differ from the fibres i in Burdach's column, however, by the fact that the individual fibres are very long, i Goll's column diminishes in size when traced downwards, and is feebly represented ' in the portion of the cord from which the sacral nerves arise. The ultimate source ! of its fibres is from the posterior roots, which reach it in a manner not yet fully | understood. It terminates above in the nucleus of the clava, from whence fibres i pass to the tract of the fillet and to the restiform body in the manner already \ noticed in the description of Burdach's column. I Having now described the course of the tracts in the spinal cord, and the more I direct continuation of these tracts into the brain, it will be necessary to recapi- ' tulate the constitution of some of the best defined of the groups of fibres and which { proceed to the cerebrum and cerebellum, namely, the fillet, the posterior longitudinal | bundle, and the restiform body. | Fillet.—The term fillet (lemniscus) was originally applied to the triangular \ band of fibres which comes to the surface at the lateral groove of the mesen- ! cephalon and winds round the superior cerebellar peduncle to disappear (as far as [ macroscopic observation is concerned) in the region of the testes. The system of ] fibres to which this superficial set belongs is now known as the inferior or lateral \ fillet (fig. 425), while other fibres, more deeply placed, form the superior or mesial j fillet. The superior fillet is in part derived from the columns of GoU and Burdach I of the opposite side ; these fibres, after an interruption in the nerve-cells of the clavate and cuneate nuclei, pass across at the decussatio lemnisci. The continuation of Gower's tract applies itself to the outer side of these fibres, and thus a broad band of fibres, the tract of the fillet, is formed. It is very conspicuous in trans- ! verse sections through the pons (fig. 429). The innermost part bends downwards j into the crusta of the cerebral peduncle, and passes from without inwards to | form the outermost constituent of the crusta. The remaining and by far the j larger part of the tract passes upwards, occupying the most ventral portion of the I tegment of the lower part of the mesencephalon, and then, assuming a more dorsal j position, encloses the nucleus of the superior quadrigeminal body of the same side, some fibres crossing in the raphe to enter, with a similar relation, the superior j quadrigeminal body of the opposite side. Other fibres are described which pass brainwards on the outer side of the red nucleus. Some of these fibres end in the :