OF PELVIS WITH THE SPINE 209 j 2. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS WITH THE SPINE ' As in the intervertebral articulations, so in the union of the first portion of the acrum with the last lumbar vertebra, there are two sets of joints—viz. an amphi- lirthroclial one, between the bodies and intervertebral disc ; and a pair of arthrodial oints, between the articular processes. The union is effected by the following igaments, which are common to the spinal column :—(i) anterior, and (ii) posterior, iommon ; (iii) lateral or short vertebral; (iv) capsular ; (v) ligamentum subflavum ; vi) supra- and (vii) interspinous, ligaments ; and two special accessory ligaments )n either side, viz. (viii) sacro-lumbar ; and (ix) ilio-lumbar. The sacro-lumbar lig-ament (fig. 206) is strong, and triangular in shape. Its jipex is above and internal, being attached to the whole of the lower border and ' rent surface of the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra, as well as to the ledicle and body. It is intimately blended with the ilio-lumbar ligame7it. Below, t has a wide fan-shaped attachment, extending from the edge of the ilio-lumbar igament forwards to the brim of the true pelvis ; blending with the periosteum on lihe base of the sacrum and in the iliac fossa, and with the superior sacro-iliac igament. By its sharp internal border it limits externally the foramen for the '.ast lumbar nerve. It is pierced by two large foramina, which transmit arteries to |jhe sacro-iliac synchrondrosis. The ilio-lumbar ligament (fig. 206) is a strong, dense, triangular ligament, which springs from the front surface of the transverse process of the fifth lumbar |\^ertebra as far as the body, by a strong fasciculus from the posterior surface of the process near the tip, and also from the front surface and lower edge of the transverse iprocess and pedicle of the fourth lumbar vertebra, as far inwards as the body. (Between these two vertebrae it is inseparable from the intertransverse ligament. |At its origin from the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra, it is closely interwoven with the sacro-lumbar ligament, and some of its fibres spread down- > Iwards on to the body of the fifth vertebra, while others ascend to the disc above. At the pelvis it is attached to the inner lip of the crest of the ilium for about two inches (5 cm.). The highest fibres at the spine form the upper edge of the ligament at the pelvis, those which come from the posterior portion of the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra forming the lower, while the fibres from the front of the same process pass nearly horizontally outwards. Near the spine the surfaces look directly backwards and forwards, but at the jilium, the ligament gets somewhat twisted, so that the posterior surface looks a little upwards, and the anterior looks a little downwards. 3 The anterior surface forms part of the posterior boundary of the false pelvis, [and overlies the upper part of the posterior sacro-iliac ligament; the posterior surface forms part of the floor of the spinal groove, and gives origin to the multifidus spiiice muscle. Of the borders, the upper is oblique, has the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia attached to it, and gives origin to the quadratics lumborum ; the lower jis horizontal, and is adjacent to the upper edge of the sacro-lumbar ligament; while the inner is crescentic, and forms the outer boundary of a foramen through which ithe fourth lumbar nerve passes. j The arterial supply is very free, and comes from the last lumbar, ilio-lumbar, I and lateral sacral. The nerve-supply is from the sympathetic, as well as from twigs from the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves. Movements.—The angle formed by the sacrum with the spinal column is called Ithe sacro-vertebral angle. The pelvic inclination does not depend entirely upon ithis angle, but in great part upon the obliquity of the innominate bones to the I P