1167 FEMOBAL HEBNIA from Gimbernat's ligament to the inferior cornu. This Kes over the femoral vessels, md is adherent to them ; to it is fixed superficially the cribriform fascia {vide infra). The inner border is much less prominent, owing to the weakness of the pubic part jof the fascia lata which forms it. (6) Femoral sheath.—This is a funnel-shaped sheath, carried out by the femoral s^essels under Poupart's ligament, and continuous above (in front) with the trans- ^ersahs fascia as it descends to the ligament, lining the inner surface of the Mominal wall, and (behind) with the ihac fascia, and below continuous with the >roper sheath of the femoral vessels. It is not only funnel-shaped, but large and loose, for two reasons : (a) That there plenty of room for the femoral vein, and the slowly moving venous current in it ;o ascend without compression; (h) to allow of all the movements of the thigh ;aking place—flexion and extension—without undue stretching of the vessels. By ,wo connective tissue septa the sheath is divided into three compartments—the )uter for the artery, the middle for the vein, and the internal one for the femoral Wal {vide infra). Thus one septum lies between the artery and vein, and .nother between the vein and the femoral canal (fig. 711). Fig. 711.—Section through the Crural Arch and Sheath of the Femoral Vessels. (Blandin.) Septum between femoral vein and gland FEMORAL CANAL- Posterior layer of. sheath, of vessels Poupart's ligament Anterior layer of sheath of vessels (transver- salis faseia) ANTERIOR CRURAL XERVE External portion of sheath of vessels (7) Femoral canal.—Definition : the innermost division of the femoral sheath, he fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca meet directly on the outer side of the femoral ery, but not so closely on the inner side of the femoral vein. Hence a space xists here, perhaps to prevent the thin-walled vein, with its sluggish current, being ressed upon. Thus a slight gap exists here—not a canal, unless so made by a ife or by the dilating influence of a hernia. Length: about three-quarters f an inch. Limits : below, saphenous opening ; above, femoral ring {vide infra). Boundaries. — Externally, septum between it and vein; internally, base of imbernat's ligament and meeting of fascia iliaca and transversalis; behind, ascia iliaca ; in front, fascia transversalis. Contents.—Cellular tissue and fat, continuous with extra-peritoneal fatty layer, jymphatic gland, which is inconstant. Lymphatics passing from superficial (groin) :lands to those deep in the iliac fossa. (8) Femoral ring.—This is mainly an artificial product. It is the upper or bdominal opening of the femoral canal. Shape: oval, with its long axis trans- erse. It is larger in women. Boundaries : internally, Gimbernat's ligament; xternally, the femoral vein; in front, Poupart's ligament and the thickening of lie transversalis fascia attached to it, and called ' the deep crural arch ;' behind.