1015 THE LIVEB lepatis) across the umbilical fissure. The outer of the two portions is much the arger, and presents three depressions upon its surface : an anterior one for the lepatic flexure of the colon {imijressio colica), a posterior one for the right [idney (impressio renalis), and one situated on the inner side of the impressio ■enahs for the descending part of the duodenum (imiwessio duodenalis). In a ardened liver these impressions are well marked, and are separated by well-defined The posterior surface is directed backwards toAvards the vertebral column, at vhich part it is concave. It includes that part of the liver behind the transverse issure, and consists of the following parts (fig. 581) :— (1) The posterior portion of the left lobe, not very well defined; it presents a mbrotuberance (the tuber omentale) in front, which projects against the lesser >mentum ; behind, a concavity coming in contact with the cardia. This portion is separated by means of the fissure of the ductus venosus from (2) he Spigelian lobe, which lies between this fissure and that of the vena cava. This Fig. 580.—The Inferior Surface of the Liver. ILE DUOT Portal vein Hepatic artery SPIGELIAN LOBE roDi rightl joiif U UMBILICAL FISSURE iobe is directed backwards, is longer from above downwards than from side to side, md is somewhat concave from side to side. It is opposite to the tenth and eleventh ihoracic vertebrae, and rests on the crura of the diaphragm. Behind its upper left- land corner the oesophagus passes to enter the stomach. Below, it projects and -orms part of the posterior boundary of the transverse fissure. It is connected mih. that part of the right lobe which enters into the posterior surface by means 3f (3) the caudate lobe, which is a small mass of liver substance running from left ko right behind the transverse fissure. It lies directly over the foramen of Winslow. It varies a good deal in form ; is sometimes well defined, at other times p bardly to be seen. When Avell defined it is about tAvo to three inches long ; behind s the termination of the fissure of the vena cava. (4) The portion of the right lobe taking part in the posterior surface consists of a strip two and a half to three inches broad (Quain). This is uncovered by peritoneum, except at the extreme right. Lying between the two layers of the coronary ligament jclose to the vena cava and near the caudate lobe is an impression for the right suprarenal capsule (imioressio sujprarenalis).