1035 THE PEBITONEUM that a viscus which was at one time entirely covered by peritoneum may in due j course become ahiiost bared of it. This is so. In the diagram (fig. 598) a transverse section of the body is imagined, the section traversing the spot where the duodenum and transverse colon are in relation at the neck of the great common mesentery. Here, by reason of the rotation of the intestine from left to right, the mesenteric [ lamina has become folded upon itself (A, fig. 598). The fold would be V-shaped, open above, but coming to a point below. On transverse section the meso- duodenum (m-d) and transverse meso-colon (m-c) can be seen side by side. Now a I constantly increasing demand upon the peritoneum is made by the rapidly growing ' viscera. The membrane is drawn in this direction and in that. There is some symmetry, however, within the abdomen, and the membrane may be conceived to I be drawn equally upon in the direction of the arrows R and l. Fig. 598.—Diagram to show the Eelation of the Peritoneum to the Duodenum. 0. The result of such traction upon the peritoneum in this particular instance will be to lessen the length of the transverse meso-colon, and to use up the meso- iduodenum altogether (fig. 598, B). That piece of bowel is indeed at last left uncovered by peritoneum behind, and is brought into contact with the posterior parietes. The j serous membrane which formed the meso-duodenum has been utilised to afford a covering for adjacent viscera, which are increasing in size, and are pushing the peritoneum before them as they advance. In this particular region of the |abdomen the growth of the liver, stomach, and spleen make great demands upon [the adjacent peritoneum. As has been already said, it is evident that the growth I of the general sac of the peritoneum does not keep pace with the growth of the structures it covers, and that it is possible for one organ to be clothed with peritoneum at the expense of another. To complete the account of the general relation of the peritoneum to the intestine, the following changes remain to be noticed : — The meso-colon.—The descending colon is displaced by the growth of the rest of