INTEBIOB OF THE SKULL 89 walls are channelled vertically by narrow grooves for the middle and small meningeal arteries, and towards the base broader furrows are found for the venous sinuses. The coronal section is most instructive when made in the basi-bregmatic axis. The section will pass through the petrosal in such a way as to traverse the two external auditory passages and expose the tympanum and vestibule, and will also partially traverse the internal auditory meatuses. Such a section wdll divide the ' parietal bones slightly posterior to the parietal eminences, and a line drawn transversely across the section at the mid-point will give the greatest transverse measurement of the cranial cavity. A skull divided in this way facilitates the examination of the parts about the posterior nares. The horizontal section of the skull should be made through a line extending j from the ophryon to the occipital point, passing laterally a few millimetres above I the pterion on each side. It is of great advantage to study the various parts on Fig. 94.—The Skull in Sagittal Section. BREGMA I the floor of the cranial cavity in a second skull having the dura mater and its various processes in situ. The floor of the cranial cavity presents three irregular depressions termed the anterior, middle, and posterior foss^. I The anterior fossa.'—The floor of this fossa is on a higher level than the rest of the cranial floor. It is formed by the horizontal plate of the frontal bone, the I cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the lesser wings of the sphenoid, which meet each other and exclude the pre-sphenoid from the anterior fossa. The free margins of the lesser wings and the optic groove mark the limits of this fossa posteriorly. The central portion of the fossa is depressed on each side of the crista galli, the depressions forming a part of the roofs of the nasal sinuses ; laterally, the floor of this fossa is convex where it corresponds to the roof of the orbits, and is marked by irregular furrows. It supports the frontal lobes of the cerebrum. The sutures traversing the floor of the fossa are the fronto-ethmoidal, forming three sides of a j rectangle, that portion of the transverse facial suture which traverses the roof of