458 THE MUSCLES centre of the eyebrows, which may nsnally be observed just before the orbiculares palpebrarum close the eyes. Relations.—Superficially, the orbicularis palpebrarum ; deeply, the frontal bone. THE EXTEINSIC MUSCLES OF THE AUEICLE The extrinsic muscles of the auricle (fig. 309)—viz. the attoUens aurem, the attrahens aurem, and the retrahens aurem—are feeble, and almost vestigial in man. They are closely connected with the occipito-frontalis. The largest of the three is the attollens aurem. 1. ATTOLLENS AUREM Tl The attollens aurem—named from its action as an elevator of the auricle—is , it\ a thin triangular sheet. ' Origin.—The epicranial aponeurosis, a short distance below the top of the ; fciii temporal ridge. ;| |pres Insertion.—The inner surface of the pinna of the auricle, over a space which { ittach corresponds to the fossa of the antihelix upon its outer surface. ly Structure.—A thin fan-shaped sheet, consisting of muscular fibres mixed with iterii bands of connective tissue, which converge from above upon a flat tendon just above , the point of insertion. ! Nerve-supply.—The temporal branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, 1 by filaments which enter the front of the deep surface. i Th Action.—To draw upwards the auricle. ' ietli Relations.—Superficially, the skin; deeply, the temporal fascia and auriculo- Ori temporal nerve. : ulila ,1 lis 2. ATTRAHENS AUREM | it( Str The attrahens aurem—named from its action in drawing forwards the auricle— '< mil is a smaller and very thin triangular sheet. icle Origin.—The lateral border of the epicranial aponeurosis in front of and below • isli, the level of the preceding, with which it is usually continuous. ! Nei Insertion.—The front of the inner surface of the helix. 1 Structure.—It consists of a thin stratum of muscular fibres, intermingled withij iot connective tissue, lying upon the temporal fascia, and converging backwards andj 110., downwards upon a feeble flat tendon. j Ij \i Nerve-supply.—The same as the preceding. j 1^ Action.—To draw forwards and upwards the auricle. ' Eel Relations.—Superficially, the skin ; . deeply, the temporal fascia, temporal artery, and auriculo-temporal nerve. farii 3. RETRAHENS AUREM The retrahens aurem—named from its action of drawing back the auricle- consists of two muscular bands, which narrow slightly as they pass forwards tc the ear. Origin.—The upper part of the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Insertion.—The inner surface of the concha. Iprej jlise '•Ipait