529 INTEBNAL CABOTID The internal carotid is the continuation upwards of the primitive dorsal aorta, md supplies the greater part of the brain, the contents of the orbit, and parts of he internal ear, forehead, and nose. It is divided into three portions :—1. A iervical; 2. an intraosseous, or petrosal; and 3. an intracranial. 1. The Cervical Portion Relations.—In the neck the artery is at first comparatively superficial, having b front of it, as it lies in the superior carotid triangle, the skin, superficial fascia, latysma and deep fascia, and the overlapping edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, ligher up, as it sinks beneath the parotid gland (fig. 329), it becomes deeply placed, !nd is crossed by the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, the ypogiossal nerve, and the occipital and posterior auricular arteries; whilst still igher it is separated from the external carotid artery, which here gets in front of by the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the giosso-pharyngeal nerve, he pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric nerve, and by the stylo-hyoid ligament. Behind, it lies upon the rectus capitis anticus major, which separates it from the ransverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae, on the superior cervical anglion of the sympathetic nerve, and on the pneumogastric nerve. Near the ase of the skull, the hypoglossal, pneumogastric, giosso-pharyngeal, and spinal ccessory nerves cross obliquely behind it, separating it at this spot from the internal jigular vein, which, as the artery is about to enter the carotid canal, also forms one |f its posterior relations. I; On its outer side are the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve. On its inner side it is in relation with the pharynx, the superior constrictor muscle 3parating it from the tonsil. The ascending pharyngeal and ascending palatine [•teries, and at the base of the skull the Eustachian tube and levator palati Luscle are also internal to it. 2. The Intraosseous or Petrosal Portion The intraosseous portion (fig. 331) is situated in the carotid canal in the itrous portion of the temporal bone. It is here separated from the walls of the mal by a prolongation downwards of the dura mater. In this part of its course first ascends in front of the tympanum and cochlea of the internal ear; it then irns forwards and inwards, lying a little internal to and behind the Eustachian ibe, and enters the cranial cavity by turning upwards through the foramen .cerum medium, lying upon the lingula of the sphenoid bone. In this part of its |)urse it is accompanied by the ascending branches from the superior cervical ! i|inglion of the sympathetic. These form a plexus about the artery, but are situated uefly on its outer side. It is also surrounded by a number of small veins, which jceive tributaries from the tympanum, and open into the cavernous sinus and ilternal jugular vein. 8. The Intracranial Portion On entering the cranium through the foramen lacerum medium, the internal irotid first ascends towards the posterior clinoid process, but soon changing its rection, it curves forwards and slightly downwards by the side of the body of the henoid bone on the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. Here it has the sixth nerve jimediately external to it, and is covered by the lining membrane of the sinus, gain turning upwards, it pierces the dura mater on the inner side of the anterior inoid process, and, passing between the second and third nerves to the anterior Eforated spot at the inner end of the Sylvian fissure, divides into its two terminal nches, the anterior and middle cerebral. After it has perforated the dura mater, Is described by some anatomists as a fourth portion—the mtracerebral (fig. 387). I MM