563 BE A GHIAL— ULNAR 7ards and inwards across the brachialis antieus, divides into two branches, a posterior ,nd an anterior. The posterior pierces the internal intermuscular septum, winds ound the internal condyloid ridge of the humerus, and pierces the triceps, between sfhioh. and the bone it anastomoses with the articular branch of the superior )rofunda artery, and to a lesser extent with the interosseous recurrent, forming ,n arterial arch or rete round the upper border of the olecranon fossa. The jiiiterior branch passes downwards and inwards between the brachialis antieus and )ronator teres, and anastomoses in front of the internal condyle, but beneath the pronator teres with the anterior ulnar recurrent. From this branch a small vessel )asses down behind the internal condyle to anastomose with the posterior ulnar ecurrent and inferior profunda arteries. Chief variations.—{a) The anastomotica magna may take the place of tlie inferior pro- janda. (6) It may be very small, the inferior profunda taking its place. (4) The Nuteient Arteky of the Humerus The nutrient artery of the humerus comes off from the brachial about the evel of the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or from the inferior profunda, or rom one of the muscular branches. It passes obliquely downwards through the jiutrient foramen, and on entering the medullary canal of the humerus divides into an ascending and descending branch, of which the latter is the larger. (5) The Muscular Branches op the Brachial The muscular branches are irregular in their number, origin, and distribu- ion. They vary from about five to eight, usually come off from the outer part of he artery, and are distributed to the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis aiticus muscles. The nutrient artery of the humerus frequently arises from the ippermost muscular branch. THE ULNAR ARTERY The ulnar artery, the larger of the two terminal branches of the brachial, begins opposite the lower border of the head of the radius in the middle line of the fore- jirm. Thence through the upper half of the forearm it runs in a slight curve, with its lonvexity inwards, deeply beneath the pronator teres and superficial flexor muscles, jmd, having reached the ulnar side of the limb about midway between the elbow imd the wrist, it passes directly downwards, being merely overlapped by the flexor iarpi ulnaris. Crossing the annular ligament immediately to the radial side of the )isiform bone, it enters the palm, where it divides into two branches, which enter •espectively into the formation of the superficial and deep palmar arches. The ilrtery is accompanied by two veins, which anastomose with each other by frequent bross branches, and usually terminate in the brachial venae comites ; or sometimes ihe inner vena comes ends in the inner brachial vein, the outer vena comes in the median profunda vein. The ulnar nerve is at first some distance from the artery, but approaches the vessel at the junction of its upper and middle thirds, and then lies close to its inner or ulnar side. The course of the artery in the lower two-thirds :)f the forearm is indicated by a line drawn from the front of the internal condyle |;o the radial side of the pisiform bone ; and in the upper third of the forearm by I line drawn in a gentle curve with its convexity inwards from an inch below the centre of the bend of the elbow to a point in the former line at the junction of its o o 2