THE CEBVICAL VEBTEBB^ 7 « lamina meets its fellow dorsally to complete the neural arch, and conjointly form the spinous process. The superior borders of the lamina are rough for the insertion of ligamenta subflava. The anterior surface, in its upper part, is smooth where it bounds the neural canal. The lower part is rough for the origin of the ligamenta subflava. This rough surface is continuous with the inferior border of the spinous process. The spinous process projects backwards and downwards from the confluent laminaB. To its upper and lower borders the interspinous ligaments are attached ; its tip is rounded for the supraspinous ligament. It is mainly a muscular process. The articular processes are four in number : two are superior and have the articular facets directed backwards with a slight outward tendency ; their ante- rior surfaces complete the intervertebral foramina; posteriorly their margins give attachment to capsular ligaments. The inferior articular processes are slightly concave oval facets on the lower and outer angles of the anterior surface of the laminae. They are directed forwards and slightly inwards. The transverse processes are two in number, and jut outwards from the lamina between the superior and inferior articular processes. The tip presents an oval facet for articulation with the tubercle of the rib. When the rib is in situ its neck forms with the process a costo-transverse foramen. The transverse processes, in addition to supporting the ribs, afford powerful leverage to muscles. THE CERVICAL VEETEBE^ A typical cervical vertebra (from the third to sixth inclusive) presents the following characters. The centrum is smaller than in other regions of the column, and is of oval shape, the major axis being transverse. The upper surface has its lateral margins raised into prominent lips, whilst the lower surface is somewhat concave, its anterior margin being lipped so as to slightly overlap the anterior Fig. 7.—A Cervical Vertebra. COSTAL PROCESS COSTO-TRANSVERSE FORAMEN TRANSVERSE PROCESS SUPERIOR ARTICULAR PROCESS' INFERIOR ARTICULAR PROCESS LAMINA. SPINOUS PROCESS. surface of the vertebra below. The inferior lateral margins are rounded, and come into relation with the raised edges of the centrum next below. The pedicles are directed obliquely outwards, and the intervertebral notch is narrower above than below. The laminae are long and narrow. The spinous pro- cess is short, and bifid at the extremity. The superior articular processes look backwards and upwards ; the inferior are directed forwards and downwards. The transverse process presents near its base the costo-transverse foramen for the transmission of the vertebral artery, vein, and a plexus of sympathetic nerves.