THE UBINABY OBGANS 1098 dilatation, terminate in the pudic vein ; its lymphatics open into the inguinal glands; and its nerves are derived from the perinaeal, the pudic, and the fourth sacral. Action.—The external sphincter, by virtue of its elasticity, gives some passive aid to the internal sphincter in maintaining the closure of the anus and the retention of the contents of the rectal cul-de-sac under ordinary conditions ; but its active and more important function is to close the anal aperture firmly during the contraction of the levatores ani and other constrictor muscles of the abdomino- pelvic cavity in powerful muscular efforts not connected with defaecation (as in! vomiting,urination, parturition, expiration, etc.). This it effects partly through the' approximation of the opposite sides of the anus by its longitudinal fibres, and partly by the ring-like contraction of its circular fibres. It also aids in flexing the coccyx, and in fixing the tendinous centre of the perinaeum during the contraction; of the bulbo-cavernosi. : 1 THE PELVIC FASCIA. AND MUSCLES : In order to understand the constitution of the ischio-rectal fossae and their' relation to adjacent parts, it is necessary to review the muscular elements of the pelvic wall, and the arrangement of the pelvic fasciae. Fig. 648.—Diagram of the Pelvic Fascia. The osseo-ligamentous framework of the walls of the true pelvis is constituted by the two ossa innominata below the ilio-pubic line and posterior border of th( pubic crest, by the sacrum and coccyx, and by the sacro-sciatic, sacro-iliac, and interpubic ligaments, and the obturator membrane. Supplementing these structure on each side of the median line, are four muscles : the obturator internus, the pyri formis, the coccygeus, and the levator ani, together with their fascial investments The obturator internus and pyriformis have already been described (pages 375 \ ^11). The fascia covering the inner aspect of the former muscle bears a ver; important relation to the intrapelvic structures. The obturator fascia (figs. 648, 650) is attached above to the iho-pubic line '