57 THE INFEBIOB TUBBINAL they are so broken up that a portion is found on the sphenoid, fragments on the palate bones, and the remainder attached to the ethmoid. Sometimes, even in very old skulls, they are represented by a triangular plate of extreme tenuity on each side of the rostrum of the sphenoid (fig. 66). THE INFERIOE TURBINAL These are a pair of delicate, scroll-like bones, and may be regarded as dis- memberments of the lateral masses of the ethmoid, with which they are closely •related. Each bone presents two surfaces, two borders, and tw^o extremities. The outer surface is concave, and overhung by the auricular or maxillary- process. The inner surface is convex and pitted with depressions. The superior border presents from before backwards three processes : the first is called the lachrymal process, because it articulates with the turbinal process of the lachrymal bone. The margin of bone at the base of this process comes into relation with the nasal process of the maxilla. The second vertical spiculum is the ethmoidal process, which joins the uncinate process of the ethmoid. The third or maxillary process is a thin lamella of bone, turned doAvnwards; it overhangs the orifice of Fig. 67.—The Inferior Turbinal, Adult Sphenoidal, Turbinal AND Lachrymal Bones. THE CREST OF LACHRYMAL Tensor tarsi THE ORBITAL SURFACE LACHRYMAL GROOVE HAMULAR PROCESS TURBINAL PROCESS THE LACHRYMAL PROCESS THE ETHMOIDAL PROCESS THE MAXILLARY PROCESS the maxillary sinus, and serves to fix the bone firmly to the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The margin posterior to the maxillary process comes into relation with the inferior turbinal crest of the palate bone. The inferior border is rounded and free. It is the thickest part of the bone. The extremities are narrow, the posterior being the more pointed. Articulations.—The inferior turbinal articulates with the maxilla, lachrymal, palate, and ethmoid. The inferior turbinal is ossified from a single nucleus which appears about the fifth month of intra-uterine life. At birth it is a relatively large bone, and fills up the lower part of the nasal fossa.