602 THE ABTEBIES the psoas muscle and the vertebral column. On reaching the brmi of the pelvis it divides into two branches, an iliac and a lumbar. The iliac branch passes outwards beneath the psoas and anterior crural nerve and, perforating the iliacus, ramifies in the iliac fossa between that muscle and the bone. It su]Dplies a nutrient artery to the bone, and then breaks up into several branches which radiate from the parent trunk, upwards towards the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, outwards towards the crest of the ilium, downwards towards the anterior superior spine, and inwards towards the pelvic cavity. The first anastomoses with the last lumbar; the second with the external circumflex and gluteal; the third with the deep circumflex iliac from the external iliac ; the fourth with the iliac branch of the obturator. The lumbar branch ascends beneath the psoas, and, supplying that muscle and the quadratus lumborum, anastomoses with the last lumbar artery. It sends a branch into the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, which anastomoses with the other spinal arteries. The ilio-lumbar artery is serially homologous with the lumbar arteries. Hence the similarity in its course and distribution. 2. THE LATEEAL SAGEAL AETEEIES The lateral sacral arteries, usually two in number, arise from the posterior division of the internal iliac. The superior artery, when two are present, runs downwards and inwards to the first anterior sacral foramen, through which it passes; and, after supplying the spinal membranes and anastomosing with the other spinal arteries, passes through the first posterior sacral foramen, and is distributed to the skin over the back of the sacrum, there anastomosing with branches of the gluteal and sciatic arteries. The inferior lateral sacral descends on the side of the sacrum, external to the sacral chain of the sympathetic, and internal to the anterior sacral foramina, crossing in its course the slips of origin of the pyriformis muscle and the first anterior sacral nerve. On reaching the coccyx it anastomoses in front of that bone with the middle sacral artery, and with the inferior lateral sacral of the opposite side. In this course it gives off:—Posterior or spinal branches, which enter the second, third, and fourth anterior sacral foramina, and, after supplying the spinal membranes and anastomosing with each other, leave the spinal canal by the corresponding posterior sacral foramina, and are distributed to the muscles and skin over the back of the sacrum ; anterior or rectal branches which run forward to the rectum ; external branches which are distributed to the pyriformis, coccygeus, and the sacral nerves ; and internal branches which pass inwards across the sacrum; to anastomose with branches of the middle sacral artery. At times the lateral sacral arteries are exceedingly small, the spinal branches then coming chiefly from the middle sacral. The anastomosing branches between the lateral sacral and middle sacral are usually regarded as sacral arteries diminished in size, and serially homologous with the lumbar and intercostal arteries. 3. THE GLUTEAL AETEEY The gluteal artery, the largest branch of the posterior division of the internal iliac, comes off as a short, thick trunk from the outer and back part of that vessel, of which indeed it may be regarded as the continuation. Passing backwards between the first sacral nerve and the lumbo-sacral cord through an osseo-tendinous arch formed by the margin of the bone and the upper edge of the pelvic fascia, it leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen above the pyriformis muscle in company with its vein and the superior gluteal nerve. At its exit posteriorly from the great sciatic foramen it lies under cover of the gluteus maximus and I