1168 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHIGAL ANATOMY the pectineus and the ilio-pectineal line. It is closed by the septum criirale, which | is a barrier of fatty connective tissue, continuous with the extra-peritoneal fatty | layer, perforated by lymphatics passing from the superficial to the deep group. ! Position of vessels around the ring.—Outside, the femoral vein; above, the! epigastric vessels; towards inner side there may be an unimportant branch j between the epigastric artery above and the obturator below. j If, instead of the above unimportant branch, the obturator artery comes ofii abnormally from the deep epigastric, it will descend, and usually does so, close to the '• junction of the external iliac and common femoral vein, and thus to the outer, and' i ! Fig. 712.—Irregularities of the Obturator Artery. (After Gray.) | i Deep circumflex iliac artery External iliac artery External iliac vein Obturator foramen Internal ring with spermatic vessels cut short in it Deep epigastric artery Lymphatic gland in femoral ring The ohtvrator artery, given from the external iliac with tk deep epigastric, descends to gai the obturator foramen, but at sa^e distance from the femoro ring B The obturator artery, coming o_<. from the deep epigastric, tdb{ a course so near to thefemon ring that it would very like\ be divided by the bistoury intr duced from without to divitl the base of Gimbernat's lig' ment, the catise of the constri tion so the safe, side of the ring (fig. 712, A). In a very few cases it curves more inwardi' close to Gimbernat's ligament, and thus to the inner side of the ring, and is the in great danger (fig. 712, B). Sir William Lawrence calculated that this took plac once in a hundred cases. Course of femoral hernia.—At first this is downwards in the femoral cana ■ A pouch of peritoneum having been gradually, after repeated straining, coughing j etc., pushed through the weak spot, the femoral ring, further weakened perhap \ together with all the parts in the femoral arch, by child-bearing, some extra effoi j will force intestine or omentum into this pouch and thus form a hernia. Thu |