1191 THE ELBOW above the internal condyle, and receiving lymphatics from the inner border of the forearm and the tv^o inner fingers. The hollow in front of the elbow.—The delicateness of the skin here must always be borne in mind in the application of splints. The M-like arrangement of the superficial veins as usually described is by no means constant (figs. 733, 734). The median basilic is the vein usually chosen for venesection, owing to its larger size and its being firmly supported by the subjacent bicipital fascia which separates it from the brachial artery; but the median cephalic is the safer. The median basilic [is crossed by branches of the internal cutaneous nerve, while those of the musculo- cutaneous lie under the median cephalic. In the semiflexed position, the fold of the Fig. 735.—The Brachial Artery at the Bend of the Elbow. [ffl! m Ell im Ediil POSTERIOR BRANCH OF INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE ANTERIOR BRANCH OF INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE BRANCH TO PRONATOR TERES Bicipital fascia, cut MEDIAN NERVE BRANCH OF MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE TO BRA CHIO-RADIALIS RADIAL NERVE Radial recurrent artery and POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE MUSCULO- CUTANEOUS NERVE elbow is seen, a little above the level of the joint. This forms the base of the trian- gular fossa below the elbow, the outer side corresponding to the brachio-radialis, the inner to the pronator radii teres, and the apex to the meeting of these muscles. The tendon of the biceps can be easily made out in the centre of the fossa, giving off above the bicipital fascia from its inner side to fasten down the flexors of the forearm. Under the tendon on its inner side lie the brachial artery and the median nerve for a short distance. The musculo-spiral lies outside the fossa, between the ^ brachio- radiahs and the brachialis anticus. The brachial usually bifurcates opposite to the neck of the radius. The arterial anastomoses about the elbow joint are as follow : The radial recurrent runs up under cover of the brachio-radialis to anastomose with the