MAXILLABY DIVISION OF THE FIFTH NEBVE 797 1 nasal fossa through a slit-like aperture at the side of the crista galli (the moidal fissure). It terminates within the nasal fossa by dividing into three inches : an internal, or septal; an external; and an anterior, or terminal. Branches.—The long root to the lenticular ganglion is given oft' at the sphe- dal fissure. It is a slender filament which passes forwards to join the upper 1 back xDart of the ganglion. The long ciliary nerves, usually two in number, 36 from the nasal trunk as the latter is crossing the optic nerve. They are acted forwards along the inner side of the optic nerve, and join the short ciliary •ves after they pierce the sclerotic (page 887). The infratrochlear nerve is given by the nasal just before the latter enters the anterior internal orbital canal. It ises forwards beneath the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and supplies the Q and conjunctiva around the inner canthus of the eyes and the integument of upper part of the nose. It also supplies the lachrymal sac and caruncle. It Qmunicates with the supratrochlear nerve in front of (sometimes behind) the ley. The internal or septal branch of the nasal nerve runs downwards and forwards the upper and front part of the nasal septum. The external branch gives two or three twigs to the anterior extremities of the )erior and middle turbinated bones, and to the mucous membrane of the outer [1 of the nose. The terminal or anterior branch runs downwards in a groove on the inner face of the nasal bone. It pierces the wall of the nose between the nasal bone 1 the lateral cartilage, and supplies the integument of the lower part of the side the nose as far as the tip of that organ. Lenticular Ganglion The lenticular, ciliary, or ophthalmic ganglion is a small reddish-grey body )ut the size of a pin's head. It is quadrilateral in outline, and its outer and ler surfaces are slightly convex. It is placed between the optic nerve and the lernal rectus muscle, about a quarter of an inch in front of the sphenoidal !ure. Following the general rule applying to the sporadic ganglia which are mected with the fifth nerve, it is provided with three roots, a motor, a sensory, i a sympathetic. The motor or short root is derived from the branch of the do-motor to the inferior oblique muscle ; it enters the posterior inferior angle of ) ganglion. The sensory or long root is a branch of the nasal nerve ; it passes ing the outer side of the optic nerve, and enters the upper and back part of the iglion. The sympathetic root is derived from the cavernous plexus of the npathetic ; it may enter the back part of the ganglion in the form of fine twigs, t usually reaches the ganglion for the most part through the third and nasal ^-ves, being incorporated with the motor and sensory roots. From the anterior border of the ganglion about six short ciliary nerves arise ; ise subdivide and communicate with the long ciliary nerves, forming about tAventy Lwes which separate into a supero-external and an infero-internal group, and :round the optic nerve. The nerves pierce the sclerotic in a circle around the trance of the optic nerve into the eyeball, and pass forwards between the sclerotic d choroid coats of the eye. They supply nerves of ordinary sensation and trophic eves to the eyeball (derived from the nasal) ; the radiating fibres of the iris irived from the sympathetic) ; and the ciliary muscle and sphincter of the pupil jrived from the oculo-motor) (page 886). Second oe Maxillary Division of the Fifth Nerve The maxillary (superior maxillary) division of the fifth nerve is intermediate size betAveen the mandibular (inferior maxillary) and ophthalmic divisions, and,