522 THE ABTERIES Bkanches of the Temporal Aeteey The branches of the temporal artery are :—(1) The parotid ; (2) the articular; (3) the masseteric ; (4) the auricular, or anterior auricular; (5) the transverse facial; (6) the middle temporal; (7) the orbital; (8) the anterior terminal; (9) the posterior terminal. | (1) The parotid branches are small twigs given off in the substance of the ! parotid gland to that structure. | (2) The articular branches supply the temporo-maxillary joint. (3) The masseteric are one or two small branches to the masseter muscle. (4) The auricular or anterior auricular branches supply the tragus, the pinna, and the lobule of the ear, and to some extent the external auditory meatus. | (5) The transverse facial is the largest branch of the temporal. It sometimes i arises from the external carotid as a common trunk with the temporal. It is at i first deeply seated in the substance of the parotid gland, but, soon emerging from | under that part of the gland known as the socia parotidis, courses transversely across j the masseter muscle about a finger's breadth below the zygoma. Steno's duct runs ; below it, and the infraorbital branches of the facial nerve above it. It supplies the | parotid gland, the masseter muscle, and the skin of the face, and anastomoses with | the infraorbital, the buccal, and the facial arteries. (6) The middle temporal branch, or middle deep temporal artery (fig. 386), arises just above the zygoma, and, perforating the temporal aponeurosis and temporal muscle, ascends on the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and| anastomoses with the posterior deep temporal artery. (7) The orbital or zygomatico-orbital branch (fig. 336), as it is sometimes called I —at times a branch of the deep temporal—passes forwards along the upper border of the zygoma in the fat between the superficial and deep layer of the temporal aponeurosis, and, after giving branches to the orbicularis oculi, sends one or more twigs into the orbit through the orbital foramina in the malar bone to anastomose with the lachrymal and palpebral branches of the ophthalmic. (8) The anterior terminal branch ramifies tortuously in an upward and forwarc direction over the front part of the skull. It lies, first between the skin an( temporal fascia, and then between the skin and occipito-frontalis. It supplie; the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis and the orbicularis oculi muscles, an( | anastomoses with the supraorbital, supratrochlear, and frontal branches of th-; ophthalmic, and with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. The secondar; branches given off from this vessel to the scalp run from before backwards. j (9) The posterior terminal branch ramifies on the side of the head betweei I the skin and temporal fascia. Its branches anastomose, in front with the anterior terminal branch; behind, with the posterior auricular and occipital arteries; an above, across the vertex of the skull, with the corresponding artery of the opposit side. 8. THE INTEENAL MAXILLARY ARTERY The internal maxillary artery (fig. 336) is the larger of the two termini i divisions of the external carotid. It arises opposite the neck of the jaw in tlj substance of the parotid gland, and, passing first between the neck of the ja and the spheno-mandibular ligament, and then between the external and intern; pterygoid muscles, sinks deeply into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and there brea. i up into its terminal branches. It is divided into three portions : a maxillary, pterygoid, and a spheno-maxillary. (1) In the first part of its course (the maxillary portion) the artery lies betwe j the neck of the jaw and the spheno-mandibular ligament, taking a horizontal coui i