THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION 1014 The surfaces are described as they are seen m a liver which has been hardens m situ. The superior surface of the Hver is convex, and moulded to the surface of th diaphragm. It is smooth, and is covered by peritoneum. It is divided by the sus pensory ligament, which runs from before backwards, into two parts : the right ant left lobes, the right division being much the larger (fig. 579). Upon this surface c the left lobe is a shallow depression for the heart. The surface of the left lobj is much less convex than that of the right. !■ The inferior surface consists of that part of the liver in front of and includin the transverse fissure. It is irregularly concave. It is covered by peritoneun except where the gall bladder comes in contact with its surface, and at the tran^ verse fissure where the lesser omentum leaves the liver. It consists of three part —viz. the quadrate lobe, nearly all the left lobe, and the under surface of the rigb lobe (fig. 580). This inferior surface is divided into right and left sections b the longitudinal fissure which forms the inferior separation between the right an: left lobes. The part of the longitudinal fissure seen on this surface is known ai Fig. 579.—Superior Surface op the Liver. | GALL BLADDER Paleiform or suspensory ligament the umbilical fissure from its containing during foetal hfe the umbihcal vein, t remains of which are now to be seen as the round ligament. It runs from befoi backv/ards, meeting the transverse fissure behind. The portion of the left lot included on this surface is much smaller than the similar surface of the right lob It Hes over the cardiac part of the stomach and the anterior surface adjoining tl lesser curvature, and shows an impression {imiwessio gastrica) made by that orgai Its anterior border is sharp and free ; but behind, the separation from the posterif surface is very ill defined. The under surface of the right lobe is divided into two by the gall bladder, whic is contained in a fossa (the fossa of the gall bladder). The inner of these portions, which is bounded by the umbihcal fissure to the left, the fossa of the ga bladder to ihe right, and the transverse fissure behind, is called the quadrate lob j and is connected with the left lobe very often by a bridge of liver substance (poi