POSTEBIOB COMMUNICATING—ANTEBIOB CHOBOID 583 nater of the anterior fossa ; (iii) nasal, to the middle meatus and anterior part of he nose ; (iv) frontal, to the frontal sinuses ; (v) cutaneous, or terminal, to the skin )f the nose. (h) The Palpebral Aeteries The palpebral branches arise either separately or by a common trunk from he ophthalmic artery opposite the pulley for the superior oblique, just as the latter /essel is about to divide into its terminal branches. They pass, one above and )ne below the internal tarsal ligament or tendo ocuh, and then skirt along the ipper and lower eyelids respectively, near the free margin between the tarsal cartilages and the orbicularis muscle, and form a superior and inferior palpebral jirch by anastomosing with the palpebral branches of the lachrymal. The upper ilso anastomoses with the supraorbital artery and orbital branch of the temporal irtery ; the lower with the infraorbital, the angular branch of the facial, and the ransverse facial arteries. A branch from the lower palpebral passes with the nasal luct as far as the inferior meatus. Small twigs are also given to the caruncle md conjunctiva. (i) The Frontal Branch The frontal branch, the upper of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, pierces the tarsal membrane at the inner angle of the orbit, passes upwards over he frontal bone, supplies the structures in its neighbourhood, and anastomoses with ts fellow of the opposite side, with the supraorbital, and with the anterior division )f the superficial temporal artery. (k) The Nasal Branch The nasal, the lower of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, leaves the )rbit at the inner canthus by perforating the tarsal membrane above the tendo )culi. It then descends along the dorsum of the nose, beneath the integuments ; md anastomoses with the angular and lateral nasal branches of the facial. It gives )ff a lachrymal branch as it crosses the lachrymal sac, and a transverse nasal branch as it crosses the root of the nose ; the latter vessel anastomoses with its bellow of the opposite side, (6) THE POSTEEIOE COMMUNICATING AETERY The posterior communicating artery (fig. 340) is given off from the internal karotid just before the division of that vessel into the anterior and middle cerebral pteries; occasionally it arises from the middle cerebral itself. It is as a rule a ilender vessel which runs backwards over the optic tract and crus cerebri along the side of the uncinate convolution to join the posterior cerebral. At times, however, t is of considerable size, and contributes chiefly to form the posterior cerebral, the )ortion of the latter vessel between the basilar and posterior communicating peing then as a rule reduced to a mere rudiment. It gives off the following tranches :—(«) the uncinate, to the convolution of that name; and (b) the middle halamic, to the optic thalamus. I (7) THE ANTEEIOE CHOEOID AETEEY The anterior choroid is a small but constant vessel, which arises as a rule rom the back part of the internal carotid just external to the origin of the Posterior communicating, It passes backwards on the optic tract and the crus cerebri, at first lying parallel and a little external to the posterior communicating