om a little in front of the tubercle to the tip, or in the lower ribs for a short Insertion.—The outer aspect of the upper border of all the ribs but the first IEXTEBNAL AND INTERNAL INTEBCOSTALS 419 stance upon the cartilage. Structure.—Composed of obliquely directed parallel bundles of fleshy fibre, with short tendinous origin, and with a slight admixture of fibrous tissue. The )sterior are more oblique than the anterior fibres. The sheet formed by these )res is thickest behind, and becomes gradually thinner forwards. Between the ,rtilages it is succeeded by a thin membrane, the external intercostal fascia, which composed of fibres running with the same slope as those of the muscle. Nerve-supply.—The intercostal nerves as they run forwards give numerous .aments to the inner surface of the sheets. Action.—See later. Relations.—Superficially, the pectoralis major and minor, the serratus magnus, le external oblique, the latissimus dorsi, the trapezius, rhomboidei, the serrati )stici, the continuation upwards of the erector spinse, and the levatores costarum ; )eply, the internal intercostals and infracostales, the intercostal vessels and nerves. : 2. THE INTERNAL INTERCOSTALS The internal intercostals are eleven in number, and fill the space from the igles of the ribs to the anterior extremity of the cartilages. The fibres, which are Lorter and not quite so oblique as those of the outer sheet, are directed downwards ad backwards. Origin.—The upper border of the subcostal groove of the eleven upper ribs from LB angle forwards, and the continuation of this border upon the cartilages. Insertion.—The inner aspect of the upper border of the eleven lower ribs and ,rtilages. Structure.—The sheets are thicker in front. There is less fibrous tissue mixed ith the fleshy fibres than in the outer sheet. In the upper and lower spaces the 3shy fibres are continued a little further back than the angles. The rest of the lace behind the thin posterior border of the sheet is filled by a thin membrane imposed of fibres running in the same direction, and is called the internal tercostal fascia. Nerve-supply.—Branches from the intercostal nerves, which are supplied to its iter surface or are given off where the nerves are concealed in the interior of the uscle. Action.—See below. Relations.—Superficially, tlie external intercostal muscles, and the intercostal 'teries and nerves ; deeply, the triangularis sterni, infracostales, and the pleura. The action of the intercostal muscles generally is to approximate the ribs to each her, and they are chiefly used in inspiration. The obliquity of their fibres enables .em with a small contraction to produce a greater approximation than if they n perpendicularly between the ribs (page 301). Moreover, if the fibres were all rected, like those of the outer sheet, downwards and forwards, there would be a ndency for the lower ribs to be drawn backwards as well as upwards in inspiration ; id if, on the other hand all the fibres were directed downwards and backwards like ose of the inner sheet, the tendency would be for the lower ribs to be drawn rwards as well as upwards in inspiration. The combined action of the two sets 'oduces the direct elevation of the ribs, the forward pull of the inner sheet being 'unteracted by the backward pull of the outer sheet. If the external intercostals ere carried forwards as far as the sternum, they would tend to take the sternum i a fixed point and to depress the front extremities of the ribs. A similar result ould follow the continuation backwards of the internal intercostals to the vertebral E E 2