673 COMMON ILIAC—PORTAL vein. They communicate with the lateral sacral veins, forming the so-called pre- sacral plexus. Below, the middle sacral veins communicate with the haemorrhoidal veins. Chief Variatio7is in the Common Iliac Veins (1) Either common iliac vein may be double, or double only for a portion of its extent. (2) One may be absent,—the external and internal iliac veins joining the opposite common iliac to form the vena cava. (3) The right and left internal iliac veins may unite and open as a common trunk at the confluence of the right and left external ihac veins to form the vena cava. (4) The middle sacral trunk vein may divide, and one branch open into the right, and the other into the left common iliac vein. THE PORTAL VEIN AND ITS TRIBUTARIES The veins corresponding to the inferior mesenteric, the superior mesenteric, and the branches of the coeliac artery, with the exception of the terminal branches of the hepatic artery, do not join the inferior vena cava direct, but unite to form a common trunk—the portal vein. This vein enters the liver, and breaks up in its substance into capillaries like an artery, from which the blood is again ultimately collected by the hepatic veins, and carried by them into the inferior vena cava. The terminal branches of the hepatic artery also break up in the liver into capillaries, and from them the blood likewise finds its way finally into the hepatic veins, and thence into the inferior vena cava. Thus the arterial blood, leaving the aorta for the supply of the stomach, the intestines, the pancreas (the so-called chylopoetic viscera), and the spleen, passes, before it reaches the vena cava, through two sets of capillaries: viz. the capillaries of the viscera and the capillaries of the liver. Hence the portal system of veins may be said to terminate in capillaries at each end; to begin, like other veins, in capillaries in the viscera ; but, unlike other veins, to end in capillaries like an artery, instead of in a larger and larger vein till the auricle is reached. The portal vein and its tributaries have no valves. The portal vein is a thick trunk about three inches in length (7-8 cm.). It is formed behind the pancreas, opposite the right side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, by the union of the superior mesenteric with the splenic vein. After passing behind the first part of the duodenum, and then between the layers of the lesser omentum in company with the hepatic artery and the hepatic duct, it enters the transverse or portal fissure of the liver, and there divides into a right and left branch. In this course it passes upwards and to the right, having both the hepatic artery and the common bile duct in front, the former to the left, the latter to the right. It is surrounded by branches of the hepatic plexus of the sym- pathetic nerve, and by numerous lymphatic vessels and some glands. The connective tissue sheath enclosing these structures is called the capsule of Glisson. Just before it divides it is somewhat dilated, the dilated portion being called the sinus of the portal vein. The division into right and left branches takes place towards the right end of the transverse fissure of the liver. The right branch is ! shorter and thicker than the left, and supplies the right lobe of the liver and a i branch to the quadrate lobe. The left branch is longer and smaller than the right, : and supplies the left lobe, and gives a branch to the Spigelian and quadrate lobes. It is joined, as it crosses the longitudinal fissure, by a fibrous cord, known as the round ligament of the liver or the obliterated umbilical vein, and posteriorly by a second fibrous cord, the remains of the ductus venosus. In the foetus the blood passes through the umbilical vein and ductus venosus directly into the vena cava, a very small quantity only turning to the right and left into the branches of the portal vein. Before birth, the blood in that part of the left branch of the portal XX