609 INTEBNAL PUDIG superficial perinasal nerve, into which the pudic nerve divides about this situation, lie respectively above and below the artery. The branches of the pudic artery in the third part of its course are :—{a) The external or inferior hsemorrhoidal; and (6) the superficial perinaeal. {a) The external or inferior hsemorrhoidal branches (inferior or posterior anal) are given off from the pudic at the posterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, just after it enters the outer wall of that cavity through the lesser sciatic foramen. They perforate the sheath of obturator fascia binding the pudic artery to the obturator internus, and course transversely through the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa, inwards to the anus, where they supply the sphincter muscle and levator ani, and anastomose with the superior and middle haemorrhoidal arteries. Twigs are given Fig. 370a.—The Arteries of the PERiNiEUM. On the right side Colles's fascia has been turned back to show the superficial vessels. On the left side the superficial vessels have been cut away with the anterior layer of the triangular ligament to show the deep vessels. off from them to the skin covering the anal triangle of the perinseum; other branches supply the gluteus maximus and wind over the posterior fold of that muscle to the integuments ; whilst others again run forwards and anastomose with the transverse and superficial perinaaal arteries (fig. 370a). (h) The superficial perinseal branch arises from the pudic at the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, just before that vessel pierces the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. It passes through the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perineum, (Colles's fascia), where that structure is continued into the anterior layer of the triangular ligament round the transverse perinaeal muscle. It then crosses in front oi (occasionally behind) that muscle, and enters the perinseal triangle, the space between Colles's fascia and the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, bounded by the erector penis externally, the accelerator urinee internally, and the transverse BE