BETWEEN ATLAS AND AXIS 197 2. The Centeal Atlanto-axoidean Joint, although usually described as one, composed of two articulations, which are quite separate from one another: an 'iterior between the odontoid process and the arch of the atlas, and a posterior ptween the odontoid process and the transverse ligament. The transverse ligament (figs. 196, 197, and 199) is one of the most important ructures in the body, for on its integrity our lives depend. It is a thick and 3ry strong band, as dense and closely woven as fibro-cartilage, about a quarter : an inch (6 mm.) deep at the sides, and somewhat more in the middle line, ttached at each end to a tubercle on the inner side of the lateral mass of the atlas, crosses the ring of this bone in a curved manner, so as to have the concavity )rward; thus dividing the ring into a smaller anterior portion for the odontoid recess, and a larger posterior part for the spinal cord and its membranes, and the 3inal accessory nerves. It is flattened from before backwards, being smooth in ■ont, and covered by synovial membrane to allow it to glide freely over the osterior facet of the odontoid process. Where it is attached to the atlas it is iiooth and well rounded off to provide an easy floor of communication between le transverso-odontoid and occipito-atlantal joints. Fig. 197.—Horizontal Section through the Lateral Masses of the Atlas AND the Top of the Odontoid Process. To its posterior surface is added, in the middle line, a strong fasciculus of vertical bres, passing upwards from the root of the odontoid process to the basilar border f the foramen magnum on its cranial aspect. Some of these fibres are derived :om the transverse portion. It gives the ligament a cruciform appearance ; hence is name, the crucial ligament (figs. 196, 199). The atlanto-odontoid capsular ligament (fig. 197) is a tough, loose membrane, 3mpletely surrounding the apposed articular surfaces of the atlas and odontoid rocess. At the odontoid process it blends above with the front of the check and antral occipito-odontoid ligaments, and arises also along the sides of the articular icet as far as the neck of the process ; the fibres are thick, and blend with the ipsules of the lateral joint. At the atlas they are attached to the non-articular art of the anterior arch in front of the tubercles for the transverse ligament, lending, above and below the borders of the bone, with the anterior occipito- tlantal and atlanto-axoidean ligaments, as well as with the inner portion of the Eipsular ligaments. It holds the axis to the anterior arch of the atlas after all le other ligaments have been divided. The synovial membranes (figs. 196, 197) are two in number:—one for the 3int between the odontoid process and atlas ; and another (transverso-odontoid) 3r that between the transverse ligament and the odontoid ; this last often com- lunicates with the occipito-atlantal. It is closed in by membranous tissue