THE VEINS 668 the base of the transverse processes. Branches are also sent between the lamina of the several vertebrae to the posterior plexus of the intraspinal veins,' and also forwards between the transverse processes of the vertebrae to join the vertebral vein in the neck, the dorsal branch of the intercostal veins in the thorax, the lumbar veins in the lumbar region, and the lateral sacral veins in the sacral region. 2. The intraspinal veins are divided into {a) the meningeal; and {h) the medullary, or meduUi-spinal. {a) The meningeal extra-medullary or meningo-rachidian veins lie in the fatty tissue betw^een the walls of the vertebral canal and the dura mater or theca vertebralis. They are arranged in four longitudinal channels, two of which are anterior and two posterior, united by transverse branches corresponding in number to the vertebral segments (fig. 390). The anterior longitudinal spinal veins extend from the foramen magnum to the coccyx as two tortuous plexiform vessels, one being placed on each side of the back of the bodies of the vertebra behind the posterior common ligament. Opposite the body of each vertebra they communicate by a transverse branch, which passes between the body of the vertebra and posterior common ligament, an arrangement which is sometimes spoken of as the spinal venous ladder. Each transverse branch as it lies under cover of the posterior common ligament receives the veins from the bodies of the vertebrae (the venae basis vertebrae). At the spot where each longi- tudinal vein is joined by the transverse branch, the vessel becomes considerably dilated. From the longitudinal vein branches run backwards to join the posterior longitudinal veins, and opposite the intervertebral foramina a transverse branch runs outwards to join the vertebral vein, the intercostal veins, the lumbar veins, and the sacral veins, according to the region of the spine in which the vertebra is situated. Above, the anterior spinal veins communicate with the basilar plexus at the front of the foramen magnum. The posterior longitudinal spinal veins, smaller than the anterior longitudinal veins, likewise extend from the cranium to the coccyx. They lie between the posterior wall of the spinal canal and the dura mater. Like the anterior, they communicate by transverse branches, which receive veins through the ligamenta subflava from the dorsal spinal plexus. They also communicate with the anterior longitudinal veins by lateral transverse branches. It will be thus seen (fig. 390) that in the interior of the vertebral canal, opposite each vertebral segment, there is a venous ring between the bony wall of the canal and the sheath of the dura mater, the ring being formed in front by the anterior transverse vein; on each side by the dilated portion of the trunk of the anterior longitudinal spinal vein, and the lateral transverse branch ; and behind, by the trunk of the posterior longitudinal vein and the posterior transverse branch. This venous ring receives veins from the body of the vertebra, from the spinal cord, and from the meninges, and pours its blood, in part through the lateral veins lying in the intervertebral foramina into the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, or sacral veins ; and in part through the branch which perforates the ligamenta subflava into the dorsal spinal plexus. Above, the posterior longitudinal veins communicate at the back of the foramen magnum with the occipital sinuses. Around the foramen magnum a distinct venous ring or plexus is formed by the communication between the occipital and marginal sinuses and the posterior and anterior "spinal veins. {h) The medullary or medulli-spinal veins, or veins of the spinal cord, are of small size, and run in the pia mater in a tortuous course along the spinal cord. They join the venous ring corresponding to each vertebral segment by passing along the sheath of dura mater reflected round the spinal nerves.