MENINGES 713 small twigs which penetrate the bone. The term meningeal, applied to these arteries, is somewhat misleading, inasmuch as they do not supply any of the meninges, except the dura mater, being chiefly destined for the nutrition of the cranial bones. These small vessels, together with a number of fibrous retinacula, are torn across when the dura mater is forcibly detached from the bone, and give rise to the rough appearance which is presented by its outer surface. An examination under water will, however, reveal smooth spots interspersed among the bundles of ruptured vessels ; these are subperiosteal lymph-spaces. Meningeal arteries.—The middle or great meningeal artery, which enters the middle cranial fossa through the foramen spinosum, supplies the dura mater which lines the vault of the cranium. In addition to this there are meningeal arteries, mostly of small size, Fig. 404.—Coronal Section of the Head passing through the Posterior Horns of the Lateral Ventricles. (From a momited specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) Dura mater— FASCICU- LUS LONGJ- TUDINA US INFERIOR ^—POSTERIOR ^ CORNU OF LATERAL VENTRICLE CALCARINE FISSURE Lateral sinus CORPUS DENTATUM Tentorium eerebeUi which are limited in their distribution to the base of the cranium. In the anterior cranial fossa there are anterior meningeal branches of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries, which enter the cranium through the anterior and posterior internal orbital canals; also twigs from the middle meningeal which usually pierce the great wing of the sphenoid near the outer angle of the sphenoidal fissure. In the middle cranial fossa the following arteries are met with :—a branch of the ascending pharyngeal which perforates the cartilage which occupies the foramen lacerum medium ; the meningea parva which enters the cranium through the foramen ovale; the meningeal branch of the internal carotid, and twigs from the middle meningeal. In the posterior cranial fossa, two meningeal branches, derived from the occipital and ascending pharyngeal, enter through the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen, another twig from the occipital passes through the mastoid foramen, and a twig from the ascending pharyngeal makes its way through the anterior condyloid foramen. A meningeal branch of the vertebral is given off from that artery, in the interval between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum. A branch of the occipital artery (ramus parietalis, Cruveilhier) occasionally passes through the parietal foramen to the dm^a mater lining the calvaria. The following are the infoldings formed by the inner or supporting layer of the