BETBAHENS AUBEM—COMPBESSOB NABIUM 459 Structure.—It consis-ts usually of darker and more distinctly muscular bands than the two preceding muscles. They arise, one above the other, by short tendinous fibres from the mastoid process, and pass transversely forwards to their tendinous insertion. Nerve-supply.—The posterior auricular branch of the facial, which sends filaments to the lower part of its deep surface. Action.—To draw back the auricle, j Eolations.—Superficially, the skin ; deeply, the posterior auricular artery, part of the great auricular and the posterior auricular nerves. I I THE MUSCLES OF THE NOSE The chief muscles of the nose are three in number: viz. the pyramidalis nasi land compressor narium, which consist of muscular fibres w^hich pass upwards and outwards from an aponeurosis, covering the cartilaginous part of the ridge of {the nose, and intimately connected with the under surface of the skin; and the depressor alae nasi. A small slip from the levator labii superioris al^que nasi is also attached to the ala nasi; and two little muscles may sometimes be found in the subcutaneous tissue upon the outer surface of the nostril: viz. the dilatator naris lanterior and posterior. [ I . 1. PYRAMIDALIS The pyramidalis (figs. 809, 311)—named from its triangular shape, which is like the side of a pyramid—is a thin triangular sheet. Origin.—The upper border of the nasal aponeurosis over the junction of the cartilage with the lower border of the nasal bone. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin between the eyebrows, being at this point continuous with the inner fibres of the frontalis. Structure.—The muscular fibres form a slightly curved sheet, which wraps round the anterior surface of the nasal bone, and is continuous with the corresponding I muscle of the other side. They converge as they pass upwards, and the outer ones run slightly inwards as well as upwards, to their insertion. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial, which enters the outer part of its deep surface. j Action.—To draw downwards the skin between the eyebrows, so as to throw it [forwards into a fold, and at the same time to produce a transverse groove above the bridge of the nose. This gives to the face a stern, aggressive, or fierce expression. j Relations.-—Superficially, the skin ; and deeply, the nasal bone. ! Variation.—This muscle is sometimes absent. 2. COMPRESSOR NARIUM The compressor narium (figs. 309, 311)—named from its supposed action as a compressor of the nostrils—is a triangular sheet, the base of which is attached to the nasal aponeurosis above mentioned. Origin.—The sides of the nasal aponeurosis. Insertion.—(1) The lower and front part of the canine fossa of the maxilla; (2) part of its fibres are continued into those of adjacent muscles, especially the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and the levator anguli oris.