808 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM (a) The great superficial petrosal nerve receives a communicating filament from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, and leaves the aqueduct by passing through the hiatus Fallopii. It runs forwards and inwards in a groove on the petrous portion of the temporal bone under cover of the dura mater. It passes beneath the Gasserian ganglion, and pierces obliquely the cartilaginous substance which occupies the foramen lacerum medium; here it is joined by the great deep petrosal nerve, and forms, with the latter, the Vidian nerve as already described. (h) The lesser superficial petrosal nerve arises from the geniculate ganglion external to the preceding. It receives a relatively large communication from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal. This communication is often considered to be the main root of the nerve (Schwalbe and others). It leaves the aqueduct through a canal which is placed external to the hiatus Fallopii, and passes f orAvards for a short distance, lying in a groove in the bone, under cover of the dura mater. It escapes from the cranium through a small foramen situated between the fora- men ovale and the foramen spinosum (canalis innominatus), and enters the etic ganglion. Occasionally it leaves the skull by traversing the suture between the great wing of the sphenoid and the petrous portion of the temporal bone. (c) The external superficial petrosal is the smallest of the three petrosal nerves. It passes through a minute canal in the temporal bone immediately external to the point of emergence of the lesser superficial nerve. It then runs forwards, under cover of the dura mater, and joins the plexus of the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery close to the foramen spinosum. (d) The nerve to the stapedius is a minute twig which is given off by the facial nerve immediately below the second bend which the. nerve forms within the aque- duct. It passes through a small canal leading from the aqueduct to the interior of the pyramid, and ends in the muscular substance of the stapedius. (e) The chorda tympani arises from the facial nerve about five millimetres above the stylo-mastoid foramen. It pursues a slightly recurrent course, upwards and forwards, through the iter chords posterius, and thus enters the tympanum. It crosses the membrana tympani at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of that membrane. In this part of its course it runs forwards between the fibrous and mucous layers of the membrana tympani, passing on the inner side of the manu- brium of the malleus. It leaves the tympanum by passing through the iter chordaB anterius, or canal of Buguier, and, after communicating with the otic ganglion, passes forwards, under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, to gain the outer side of the lingual nerve, which it joins at an acute angle. From thence it runs in the sheath of the lingual nerve, a portion of its fibres, as already described (see Lingual Nebve), passing into the submandibular ganglion. Other fibres reach the sublingual gland, and the dorsum of the tongue. (/) The communicating twig to the pneumogastric is given off at the same level as the chorda tympani, and joins the auricular branch of the pneumogastric while the latter is traversing the substance of the temporal bone. (2) The branches which arise from the facial nerve between the stylo-mastoid foramen and the terminal bifurcation are the posterior auricular and the nerves to the posterior belly of the digastric and to the stylo-hyoid muscles. A lingual branch is also described. (a) The posterior auricular nerve is the first branch of the extracranial portion of the facial. It passes between the parotid gland and the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and runs upwards in the deep interval between the external auditory meatus and the mastoid process. In this situation it communicates with the auricular branch of the pneumogastric. It supplies the retrahens aurem, and sends a slender twig upwards to the attoUens aurem, and ends in a long slender branch, which passes backwards to supply the posterior belly of the occipito- fro italis.