THE SKELETON 92 the orbit, and the ethmoido-sphenoidal suture, the centre of which corresponds to the gonion. The points of interest in the fossa are :— A groove for the superior longitudinal sinus. The foramen csecum which transmits a small vein. The crista galli. The ethmoidal fissure for the nasal branch of the fifth nerve. The cranial orifice of the anterior ethmoidal canal, transmitting the nasal branch of the fifth and a meningeal branch of the anterior ethmoidal artery. Ethmoidal foramina for the olfactory filaments. Cranial orifice of the posterior ethmoidal canal, transmitting a meningeal branch of the posterior ethmoidal artery. The ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid. Furrows for meningeal arteries. The middle cranial fossa presents a central isthmus and two lateral depressed portions. It is limited anteriorly by the posterior border of the lesser wings of the sphenoid and the anterior margin of the optic groove. The posterior limits are the | dorsum ephippii and the superior border of the petrosals. Laterally it is bounded j by the squamosals and the parietal bones. The floor is formed by the body i and greater wings of the sphenoid, and the anterior surface of the petrosal. It | contains the following sutures : spheno-parietal, petro-sphenoid, squamo-sphenoidal, squamous, and a portion of the transverse suture. The central portion or isthmus of the middle fossa possesses the following points from before backwards: — The optic groove, which lodges the optic chiasma. The optic foramina, transmitting the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. The olivary process, indicating the line of ankylosis between pre- and post- sphenoid. The anterior clinoid processes. The pituitary fossa, with the middle clinoid processes, and grooves for the internal carotid arteries. The dorsum ephippii, with the posterior clinoid processes, and notches for the third pair of cranial nerves. This central depression is in direct relation with the parts of the brain sur- rounding the circle of Willis. The lateral deiwessions receive the temporo-sphenoidal lobes of the brain, and are marked by numerous furrows roughly corresponding to the convolutions of the cerebrum. Numerous narrow^ diverging channels pass upwards from the fossa towards the vertex; these lodge the ramifications of the middle and small meningeal arteries. The following openings occur on each side of this fossa :— The sphenoidal fissure, leading into the orbit and transmitting the third, fourth, ophthalmic division of the fifth, the sixth nerve, and ophthalmic vein. In the greater wing of the sphenoid near its uilion with the frontal bone there are small openings allowing twigs of the middle meningeal artery to enter the orbit. The foramen rotundum, which conducts the second division of the fifth nerve into the spheno-maxillary fossa. The foramen ovale : this transmits the third division of the fifth with its motor root, the small meningeal artery, and the small superficial petrosal nerve. The foramen Vesalii (not always present) for a small vein. The foramen spinosum, for the middle meningeal artery and its vense comites. The sphenotic foramen (middle lacerated foramen), which transmits at its inner angle the internal carotid artery, with the carotid plexus of nerves. On the posterior wall of this fossa the objects of interest are :— A depression which lodges the Gasserian ganglion. The hiatus Fallopii, for the great superficial petrosal nerve, and a twig from the middle meningeal artery.