THE PHARYNX 985 jChey open in a line on the floor of the month. The innermost of the series very ;ommonly opens into the submaxillary duct. The arteries are derived from the sublingual and submental, with their corre- iponding veins. The nerves are derived from the gustatory (through the submandibular ganglion) ^nd from the sympathetic. THE PHARYNX The pharynx is placed behind the nose and mouth, and extends from the base f the skull to the lower part of the cricoid cartilage opposite the fifth cervical rertebra. The soft palate projects into it from the front, dividing it into a nasal portion above, and a buccal portion below. The openings of the two posterior nares which are in front, and the orifices of he two Eustachian tubes, one on each side, open into the naso-pharynx ; whilst nto the buccal portion below the velum are the single openings of the mouth in ront, and the larynx and oesophagus below, j Thus there are seven openings leading into its cavity. It measures from above downwards about four and a half inches (11"3 cm.), Ind is flattened from before backwards, so that the cavity in this direction is xtremely contracted, its mucous membrane, especially above, being thrown into aumerous folds and recesses ; whilst below the cavity becomes entirely obliterated, or here its anterior and posterior walls, except during the act of swallowing, are n actual contact. Thus it measures much more from side to side, being widest )pposite the cornua of the hyoid bone. It is narrowest below where it passes into he oesophagus. The pharyngeal walls are composed of a fibrous coat, the pharyngeal aponeu- ■osis, lined by a mucous membrane, and surrounded externally by muscular layers nvested by a delicate areolar sheath which lies beneath the stronger post-pharyngeal 'ascia. The pharyngeal aponeurosis is well marked above, but below it loses its density md gradually disappears as a definite structure. Above, it is attached to the posterior portion of the body of the sphenoid bone in front of the pharyngeal iubercle. Its attachment may be traced outwards to the apex of the petrous portion )f the temporal bone, to the cartilage which intervenes between it and the occipital ibone, and thence to the Eustachian tube and internal pterygoid plate. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous with the several cavities ivhich open into it. It is closely adherent to the base of the skull, thick and spongy md dark in colour. It becomes thinner Avhere it approaches the openings of the posterior nares and Eustachian tubes, and below it is paler and folded longitudi- nally. Lymphoid follicles and numerous racemose glands exist throughout the mucous membrane. The epithehum is cihated and columnar in the naso-pharynx, but becomes stratified and scaly in the lower portion. Muscles.—The muscular coat consists of the three constrictor muscles, with (additional fibres derived from the stylo- and palato-pharyngei muscles. The inferior constrictor is thick and strong. It arises from the thyroid carti- lage immediately behind the oblique line and superior tubercle, and also from the inferior cornu and the side of the cricoid cartilage behind the crico-thyroid muscle (fig. 521). The fibres spread backwards and inwards, the lowest hoiizontally,