THE SKELETON 78 serve for the transmission of the nerves connected with this ganglion and the M terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. In addition to the fossae, the lateral region presents the glenoid fossa with its articular eminence, the external auditory meatus, the mastoid and styloid processes, and the following sutures :— The spheno-parietal, which lies between the greater wing of the sphenoid and the anterior inferior angle of the parietal. The squamous is formed by the squamosal overlapping the lower border of the parietal. The parieto-mastoid, which lies between the posterior inferior angle of the parietal and the mastoid portion of the petrosal. The zygomatic suture is formed by the union of the zygoma with the malar bone. The squamo-spheiioidal is situated between the anterior border of the squamosal and the greater wing of the sphenoid. The spheno-malar suture is formed by the orbital process of the malar and the malar ridge on the greater wing of the sphenoid. Near its middle the suture is perforated by the spheno-malar foramen, which allows the temporal branch of the Fig. 85.—Hard Palate of a Child Five Years old. PALATE BONE orbital nerve and a branch of the lachrymal artery to escape from the orbit. This foramen in some adult skulls is complete in the malar. The fronto-squamosal is an occasional suture ; when it is present, the anterior \ inferior angle of the parietal is excluded from the greater wing of the sphenoid. The more important regions are :— The pterion, which marks the situation of the anterior lateral fontanelle, is the meeting-place of the coronal, squamous, spheno-parietal, squamo-sphenoidal, and the fronto-squamosal sutures. Frequently it is occupied in the adult by the epipteric ossicle. The asterion indicates the situation of the posterior lateral fontanelle and marks the confluence of the squamosal, parieto-mastoid, lambdoid, the occipito- mastoid, and occasionally the occipital sutures. Sometimes it is occupied by a Wormian bone. The stephanion is the spot where the superior temporal ridge cuts the coronal suture. The auricular point is the centre of the external auditory meatus. The base of the skull is very irregular, and extends from the incisor teeth to the occipital protuberance. Laterally it is limited by the zygomatic arches. Anteriorly I