235 THE SHOULDER JOINT las it descends, and covers the transverse humeral hgament. The lower half of the capsule descends upon the humerus further from the articular margin, some of the deeper fibres being reflected upwards so as to be attached close to the articular edge, thus forming a kind of fibrous investment for the neck of the humerus. This ligament is more uniform in thickness than that of the hip. 1 Gleno-humeral bands of the capsule (figs. 224 and 225).—There are three accessory bands which strengthen the capsule, two of which are seen superficially, land consist of a few strengthening fibres, one on the inner aspect reaching from I the glenoid cavity to the lower border of the lesser tuberosity along the lower border [of the subscapularis tendon ; and the inferior reaching from the under part of the I glenoid cavity to the under part of the neck of the humerus. The third, the superior band, is known as the gleno-humeral ligament, and can only be seen after opening the capsule. It runs from the edge of the glenoid cavity at the root of the coracoid, just internal to the origin of the long tendon of the biceps, and, passing inwards and downwards at an acute angle to the tendon, for which it forms a slight groove I or sulcus, is fixed to the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. It is a thin, ribbon- like band, of which the upper surface is attached to the capsule, while the other Fig. 225.— Fcetal Shoulder Joint, showing the Gleno-humeral Ligament, AND ALSO the ShORT HeAD OF THE BiCEPS, BEING CONTINUOUS WITH THE CORACO-ACROMIAL LiGAMENT. is free and turned towards the joint. In the foetus it is often, and in the adult occasionally, quite free from the capsule, and may be as thick as the long tendon of the biceps (fig. 225). The tendons of the sujyra- and infra-siyinatus, teres minor, and suhscaimlaris muscles strengthen and support the capsule, especially near their points of insertion, and can be with difficulty dissected off from it. The long head of the triceps supports and strengthens the capsule below. The capsule also receives an upward slip from the ijectoralis major. The supra-sinnatus often sends a slip into the capsule from its upper edge. The coraco-humeral ligament (fig. 226) is a strong broad band, which is attached above to the outer edge of the root and horizontal limb of the coracoid nearly as far as the tip. From this origin it is directed backwards to blend with the capsule along the line of the biceps tendon, and is inserted into the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Seen from the back, it looks like an uninterrupted continuation of the capsule, while from the front it looks like a fan-shaped prolongation over- lying the rest of the ligament. At its origin there is sometimes a bursa between it and the capsule. The glenoid ligament (figs. 224 and 227) is a narrow rim of dense fibro-cartilage, which surrounds the edge of and deepens the glenoid socket. It is about a quarter