THE MUSCLES 320 strengthening the shoulder joint by drawing the head of the humerus towards the glenoid cavity. Relations.—Its anterior and internal face forms the greater part of the posterior wall of the axilla, and is in contact wdth the serratus magnus, the short head of thei biceps, and the coraco-brachialis, the axillary vessels with many of their branches, thej brachial plexus and its branches, the lymphatic glands and vessels ; its outer borderi lies in contact with the teres major, the posterior circumflex and dorsahs scapula| vessels, and the circumflex nerve ; behind lie the long head of the triceps and the; teres minor muscle, and the bursa which intervenes between its tendon and the, capsule of the shoulder joint. I Variations.—Occasionally a sei^arate slip arises from the axillary border of the scapula,' and is inserted into the capsule of the shoulder joint or into the humerus. Fig. 269.—Front View of the Scapular Muscles. G. TERES MAJOR The teres major—named from its somewhat cylindrical shape and its size—j is a thick ribbon-shaped muscle. Origin.—(1) The oval facet which occupies the lower third of the axillar} border of the infraspinous fossa ; (2) the infraspinous fascia and the inter! muscular septa, which separate the muscle from the teres minor and infra-spinatus Insertion.^—-The inner lip of the bicipital groove from the lower border of th( lesser tuberosity for about two inches down the humerus. Structure.—Its origin is by fleshy fibres which pass upwards, outwards anc somew^hat forw^ards, to be inserted by a strong tendon, which is first visible upon th(j outer border, and then upon the anterior surface of the muscle, and which is ii close relation with the back of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. A small bursj intervenes between the two tendons. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through th(! sixth and seventh cervical nerves) by the lower subscapular nerve, which enters th(| muscle upon its anterior aspect close to the middle of its inner border. Action.—It assists the latissimus dorsi as a strong adductor, and in some posil tions of the arm as an internal rotator of the humerus. When the arm is fixed it will act with the latissimus dorsi in drawmg the bodj