262 THE ABTICULATIOXS an incli and a half (3'7 cm.) long. It lias two bony attachments, one on either sid( of the cotyloid notch immediately below the articular cartilage, while intermediati fibres spring from the mider surface of the transverse ligament. The ischia portion is the stronger, and has several of its fibres arising outside the ca-sity below and in connection with the origin of the transverse ligament, where it i also continuous with the capsule, and periosteum of the ischium. At the femur i is fixed to the front part of the depression on the head, and also to the cartilag. round the margins of the depression. It is covered by a prolongation of synovia membrane, which also covers the cushion of fat in the recess of the acetabulum the portion reflected over the fatty tissue does not cling closely to the rouiKl ligament, but forms a triangular fold, the apex of which is at the femur. ! The transverse ligament (fig. 241) passes across the cotyloid notch aiK converts it into a foramen; it supports part of the cotyloid fibro-cartilage, and i Fig. 239.—Section through the Hip Joint, showing the Cotyloid Ligament, LiGAMENTUM TeRES, AND KeTINACULA. connected with the ligamentum teres and the capsule. It is composed of decussaj ting fibres, which arise from the margin of the acetabulum on either side of th notch, those coming from the pubes being more superficial, and passing to fori the deep part of the ligament at the ischium, while those superficial at the ischial are deep at the pubes. It thus completes the rim of the acetabulum. The cotyloid fibro-cartilage (figs. 239, 240) is a yellowish-white structurt which deepens the acetabulum by surmounting its margin. It varies in strengt and thickness, but is stronger at its iliac and ischial portions than elsewhere. It^ base is broad and fixed to the bony rim as well as to the articular cartilage q the acetabulum on the inner, and the periosteum on the outer side of it, and blend inseparably with the transverse ligament which supports it over the cotyloi notch. Its free margin is thin; on section it is somewhat lunated, having ii] outer surface convex and its articular face concave and very smooth in adaptatio