1170 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY their lumen contains clots, their muscular tissue wastes, while the connective tissue j of their outer coat hypertrophies and thickens. Thus the umbilical vessels and the' umbilical ring are, alike, converted into scar-tissue, which blends together. Thisi remains weak for some time, and may be distended by a hernia (infantile). i Finally, we have to consider the state of the umbilicus in adult life. The verj| dense, unyielding, fibrous knot shows two sets of fibres :—(1) Those decussating! in the middle line; and (2) two sets of circular fibrous bundles which interlace al! the lateral boundaries of the ring. The lower part of the ring is stronger than the upper. In other words, umbilical hernia of adult life, when it comes through th( ring itself and not at the side, always comes through the upper part. In the lowei three-fourths of the umbilicus, the umbilical arteries and urachus are firmly closed matting in a firm knot of scar-tissue ; in the upper there is only the umbilical veil j and weaker scar. To the lower part run up the umbilical arteries and the urachus Owing to the rapid growth of the abdominal wall and pelvis before puberty, an< the fact that the urachus and the umbilical arteries, being of scar-tissue, elongat with difficulty, the latter parts depress the umbilicus by reason of their intimat connection with its lower half. ' Coverings of an umbilical hernia.—These, more or less matted together, are :- i (1) Skin ; (2) superficial fascia, which loses its fat over the hernia ; (3) prolonga tion of scar-tissue of the umbilicus gradually stretched out; (4) transversali fascia; (5) extra-peritoneal fatty tissue ; (6) peritoneum. If the hernia com through above the umbilicus, or just to one side, the coverings will be much th same ; but, instead of the layer from the umbilical scar, there will be one fror. the linea alba. TEE BACK Median furrow. — This is more or less marked according to the musculj! development, being between the complexi, chiefly in the cervical region, and tl 1 erectores spinse lower down. The lower end of the furrow corresponds to tl interval between the spines of the last lumbar and the first sacral vertebrj (Holden.) i Vertebral spines.—Those of the upper cervical region are scarcely to be mad out even by deep pressure. That of the axis may be detected in a thin subjeJi Over the spines of the middle three cervical vertebrae is normally a hollow, owing j these spines receding from the surface to allow of free extension of the neck. T] \ seventh cervical is prominent, as its name denotes. Between the skull and atlas, | between the atlas and axis, a sharp pointed instrument might penetrate, especial j in flexion of the neck. | Of the thoracic spines, the third should be noted as on a level with the inner ei j of the scapular spine, and in some cases with the bifurcation of the trachea ; tb i of the seventh with the lower angle of the scapula ; that of the twelfth with 11 lowest part of the trapezius and the head of the twelfth rib. The obliquity a j overlapping of the thoracic spines is to be remembered. j Of the lumbar spines, the most important are the second, which corresponds ; the termination of the cord, and that of the fourth, which marks the highest p! of the iliac crests and the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta. The lumbar spir j project horizontally, and correspond with the vertebral bodies. i Owing to the obliquity of the thoracic spines, most of them do not tally with t j heads of the corresponding ribs. Thus, the spine of the second corresponds w:! •I