OCCIPITAL LOBE T21 tentorium cerebelli. It presents three very distinct surfaces: a convex supero-external, a mesial or internal, and a tentorial. The latter looks downwards and slightly inwards. These three surfaces meet at the occipital pole. It is sharply marked off on the mesial surface by the internal parieto-occipital fissure. On the convex surface the line of demarcation (as already described in treating of the parietal lobe) is made by drawing a line from the extremity of the external parieto-occipital fissure to the prseoccipital notch (fig. 410). This line separates the occipital from the parietal and temporal lobes. The prseoccipital*notch (fig. 410) is produced by the impression of the veins which enter the lateral sinus. Another impression (fig. 410, n), which is produced by the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, has been some- times described as the praeoccipital notch. It is generally stated that the occipital lobe passes into the temporal lobe on the tentorial surface without any line of demarcation. A number of methods of marking off the occipital lobe have been proposed by different authors. These are all largely artificial. The occipital lobe is due to a backward growth common to the parietal and temporal lobes. That growth carries with it a prolongation of tlie lateral ventricle, forming the posterior cornu. The occipital lobe is therefore that part of the hemisphere which contains the posterior cornu. It may be marked off on the tentorial surface by a line drawn from the praeoccipital notch to the extremity of the parieto-occipital fissm-e at the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus (fig. 411). The remaining boundaries will be the parieto-occipital fissm-e for its entire length and (as before) a line drawn from the extremity of the external parieto-occipital fissure to the prseoccipital notch. The fissures on the convex surface of the occipital lobe are the superior, middle, and inferior occipital fissures ; to these may be added the ramus occipitalis of the intraparietal fissure with its appendage the transverse occipital fissure. The superior occipital fissure may be represented by a direct continuation of the intraparietal fissure to the occipital pole of the cerebrum. More commonly, however, it is limited to the posterior part of the occipital lobe (fig. 409, right side), and is not continuous with the intraparietal fissure. The ramus occipitalis of the intraparietal fissure may be directly continued into the occipital lobe from the horizontal limb of the main fissure, or it may commence in the superior parietal lobule. In either case it passes backwards into the occipital lobe between the first and second annectant gyri, and usually terminates a short distance behind the external parieto-occipital fissure by dividing into two branches which extend upwards and downwards at right angles to the main fissure, and together constitute the transverse occipital fissure. In the brains of most apes a fissure extends across the hemisphere in a line with the upper end of the internal parieto-occipital fissm^e, and is often said to be homologous with the external parieto-occipital fissure of the human brain. This characteristic simian fissm-e (appropriately called, in Germany, the Affenspalte) is, however, formed by the anterior margin of an occipital operculum, that is to sa,j, a portion of brain substance which has grown forwards from the occipital lobe, and has concealed the true external parieto-occipital fissure and the annectant gyri. These structures can, however, be readily seen if this operculum be lifted up. The occipital operculum and Affenspalte are probably formed by the forward growth of the convolution which bounds the transverse occipital fissure pos- teriorly, the parts immediately in front of this fissm-e being cliecked in their growth and depressed below the surface. For further information the student is referred to the works of Gratiolet, Schwalbe, and to a recent paper by D. J. Cimningham on the intraparietal fissure of the human brain. The middle occipital fissure is often feebly developed. It is directed from before backwards and meets the superior occipital fissure at the occipital pole. The inferior occipital fissure is placed along the margin which separates the convex surface from the tentorial surface of the hemisphere. It may extend in a tortuous manner from the prfeoccipital notch to the occipital pole of the hemisphere but is often broken up by one or more convolutions crossing it.