870 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM in front of the bifurcation of the trachea between that structure and the transverse part of the aortic arch ; it receives all the other cardiac nerves. Superficial cardiac plexus.—The superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic and the inferior cervical cardiac branch of the vagus cross the so-called transverse part of the aortic arch on its left side, being placed between the artery and the left pleura. The nerves then enter the interval between the aortic arch and the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, where they communicate Avith the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglion (the cardiac ganglion of Wrisberg) is usually developed at the point of communication. Branches are furnished to the right coronary plexus and also to the left lung. The latter branches join the anterior pulmonary plexus. Deep cardiac plexus.—The deep cardiac plexus receives all the right cardiac nerves, and also the cardiac nerves of the left side, with the exception of the superior cervical cardiac of the sympathetic and the inferior cervical cardiac of the vagus. The plexus is placed in front of the bifurcation of the trachea, and gives off the following branches :—(a) Branches to the anterior pulmonary plexuses of both sides ; (b) the left coronary plexus; (c) branches to the right auricle; (d) communicating branches to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and (e) branches to the right coronary plexus. Right coronary plexus.—This plexus is formed by branches from both the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses. It follows the branches of the right coronary artery for a certain distance, beyond which the nerves diverge from the arteries, and run between the pericardium and the muscular substance of the heart. Finally they enter the muscular substance. Left coronary plexus.—This plexus arises from the deep cardiac plexus. It passes forwards between the left auricular appendix and the pulmonary artery, and accompanies the branches of the left coronary artery. SOLAR PLEXUS The solar plexus is placed in front of the commencement of the abdominal aorta. It is the largest of the prevertebral plexuses, and is formed by the two semilunar ganglia, and by a number of interlacing nerve-cords which surround the ganglia. Each semilunar ganglion is placed at the side of the coeliac axis, embracing the artery in its concavity. The upper and the lower extremities of the ganglia of opposite sides are connected to one another by nerve-cords, above and below the artery. In this manner the coeliac axis is surrounded by a neuro-ganglionic collar. From this neuro-ganglionic collar a number of branches arise which are joined by branches from the right vagus and by both small splanchnic nerves, and in this manner the solar plexus is formed. From the solar plexus a number of nerves arise which accompany the abdominal aorta and its branches, forming secondary plexuses, which take their names from the arteries they accompany. Semilunar ganglia.—These are a pair of reddish-grey, irregularly shaped bodies which rest on the crura of the diaphragm, close to the coeliac axis. The great splanchnic nerve on each side, after piercing the crus of the diaphragm, enters the outer, or convex, side of the corresponding ganglion. Coeliac plexus.—The coeliac plexus surrounds the coeliac axis, and divides into splenic, hepatic, and coronary plexuses. The splenic plexus, after receiving a communication from the right pneumo- gastric nerve, accompanies the splenic artery to the spleen. It gives off pancreatic and left gastro-epiploic plexuses. The hepatic plexus is joined, near the pyloric end of the stomach, by branches from the left pneumogastric, and accompanies the hepatic artery to the liver, where it divides into right and left hepatic plexuses. Previous to its division, it gives off