THE HIP-BONE 153 line of junction with the ihum forms the ilio-pubal ridge. Stretching from this ridge to the pubic spine there is a raised edge continuing the iho-pectineal hne. The [surface of bone in front of the hne is the pectineal surface ; it gives origin to the \pectineus muscle, and is limited below by the obturator crest, which extends from I the pubic spine to the cotyloid notch. The under surface of the horizontal ramus forms the upper boundary of the obturator foramen, and presents a deep groove for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. The acetabulum is a circular depression in which the head of the femur is ilodged. It consists of an articular and a non-articular portion. The articular portion is circumferential and horseshoe-shaped; the deficiency is in the lower segment. The pubes forms one-fifth of the acetabulum, and the ischium two- fifths ; the rest is formed by the ilium. In rare instances the pubes may be excluded by a fourth element, the cotyloid bone. The non-articular portion is formed mainly by the ischium, and is continuous below with the margin of the j obturator foramen. The articular portion presents an outer rim to which the I cotyloid ligament is attached, and an inner margin to which the synovial membrane is connected which excludes the ligamentum teres from the synovial cavity. The opposite angles of the horseshoe-shaped margin ^yhich limit the cotyloid notch are united by the transverse ligament, and through the cotyloid foramen thus formed a nerve and vessel enter the joint. The obturator (thyroid) foramen is situated between the ischium and pubes ■Itsmargins are thin, and serve for the attachment of the obturator membrane. At the upper and posterior angle it is deeply grooved for the passage of the obturator I vessels and nerve. j Muscles attached to the hip-bone are :— Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. Tensor vaginae femoris. Eectus femoris. Obturator externus. Obturator internus. Latissimus dorsi. Internal oblique. External oblique. Transversalis. Erector spinse. Multifidus spingp. Quadratus lumborum. Iliacus. Psoas parvus. Quadratus femoris. Accelerator urinae (occasionally). Sartorius. Pectineus. Pyramidalis. Pyriformis. Gemellus superior. Gemellus inferior. Gracilis. Adductor magnus. Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Levator ani. Coccygeus. Transversus perinei. Erector penis. Compressor urethrae. Biceps femoris. Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. The ligaments attached to the hip-bone are: Greater sacro-sciatic. Lesser sacro-sciatic. Ilio-lumbar. Transverse. Round (ligamentum teres). Anterior pubic. Posterior pubic. Superior pubic. Subpubic. Triangular. Anterior sacro-iliac. Posterior sacro-iliac.