THE UTEBUS 1087 ose to the attached border of the ovary, bearing a certain resemblance in plan ) the vasa efferentia of the testicle, and joining a kind of collecting tube above. )) The duct of Gartner, a canal representing the lower part of the WolfQan duct, ut seldom persistent in the human subject. When present it opens upon the vulva ear the urinary meatus, (c) A few scattered imperfectly developed tubules in the eighbourhood of the parovarium, also representing traces of the Wolffian body. i) The hydatid of Morgagni, a long pediculated vesicle occasionally dependent om the fimbriae of the tubes, is believed to be a relic of the Miillerian duct. ;) Small pedunculated cysts often found on the posterior layer of the broad ligament tnd derived from the parovarium. (5) The uterine, ovarian, and funicular vessels, jaastomosing near the angle of the uterus ; and the uterine plexus of nerves. 3) A quantity of loose adipose cellular tissue lying between the muscular and other :ructures and the serous membrane, and in continuity with the subperitoneal fascia t the pelvis. (7) Involuntary muscular fibres passing from the obturator fascia to Fig. 641.- -Section of the Pelvis showing the Ligaments OF THE Uterus. OS PUBIS I Obturator internus Obturator fascia Subperitoneal tissue Utero-pelvic ligament Peritoneum. Sacro-seiatie. ligament RECTUM- Utero-sacral. ligament running forward into recto- uterine ligament SYMPHYSIS Prevesical fat BLADDER WALL VESICAL CAVITY Peritoneum of utero-vesical pouch. TJtero-vesical ligament Broad ligament Heeto-vaginal pouelx of Douglas ecome attached to the sides of the uterus and vagina, ensheathing the vessels and iBrving as a support to the uterus. They may be compared with the fibro-muscular Libperitoneal bands supporting the third stage of the duodenum, the transverse colon nd small intestines, and are essentially sustentacular in relation to the viscera and ) their vessels and nerves. The posterior peritoneal or recto-uterine ligaments are two serous folds which im backwards from the intraperitoneal portion of the cervix uteri and vagina to ecome continuous with the peritoneal investment of the second stage of the 3ctum. They form the lateral boundaries of the pouch of Douglas, and between j^oi |ieir layers lie muscular utero-sacral ligaments, comparable to the expansion in (;] f pe broad ligaments, with loose connective tissue and a number of anastomosing ranches of the uterine and haemorrhoidal vessels. The anterior peritoneal or utero-vesical ligaments are two ill-defined folds khich pass one on each side from the cervix uteri to the bladder. The muscular ligaments lying between the peritoneal folds are four pairs :