THE MUSCLES 452 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK The superficial layer in this region is peculiar in that it consists of numeroii muscles contained in the connective tissue outside the deep fascia. This connectiv tissue, the superficial fascia, is moderately provided with fat, and extends wither any deep connection to the adjacent regions of the thorax, arm, and back. In th! scalp it is firm and difficult to dissect on account of numerous septa which pa^; through it to unite the skin to the subjacent muscular aponeurosis. In th; situatior the superficial fascia is richly provided with blood by vessels which xw within il' Instead of beneath the deep fascia, Avhich is their usual position in oth(; parts of fche body. Besid(3s the peculiarity of their position outside the deep fascia, these muscLl are all associated in their function, viz. to produce the various movements of tl| features by which the expression of the emotions is effected. They are aL peculiar in the fact that many of them decussate with each other on the way • their insertion in the skin ; and they are all supplied by the seventh pair > cranial nerves. i SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF NECK AND SCALP 1. PLATYSMA MYOIDES mi ■itila The platysma myoides—named from its flat expanse (ylatysma, a plate) ai' its similarity to muscle {myoides, like muscle, for the older anatomists consider it to be only a membrane)—is a quadrilateral sheet with a somewhat tooth posterior border. Orig^in.—(1) The deep fascia of the upper part of the front of the chest ai the shoulder, and the deep cervical fascia covering the sterno-mastoid. . \ Insertion.—(1) The outer surface of the lower border of the body of t mandible, both on the same and the opposite side ; (2) the deep surface of the si from the corner of the mouth to the anterior border of the masseter muscle Structure.—Arising by slender bundles from the fascia covering the pector^ major and deltoid, in a line from the second costal cartilage to the tip of acromial process, the pale muscular fibres at first converge slightly until tt have crossed the clavicle. They then run parallel to each other upwards a forwards, receiving at the posterior border of the muscle small teeth from the d( fascia forming the sheath of the sterno-mastoid. The anterior fibres cross 1 middle line half-way between the hyoid bone and the symphysis, and are inser into the lower border of the body of the mandible upon the opposite side of ' neck. The greater part of the rest are inserted into the outer surface of the lo^ border of the mandible on the same side, but some are continued upwards and j with the depressor labii inferioris. Still further back, a few fibres pass upwa over the lower part of the masseter, and are inserted into the deep surface of skin just outside the angle of the mouth. A strong bundle of these fibres which n nearly transversely forwards to the corner of the mouth will be described later the risorius muscle. In its whole extent the muscle is closely connected with deep surface of the skin. Nerve-supply.—The seventh cranial nerve, by means of the inframaxillj)^, ^ branch of the cervico-facial division, which supplies it from beneath at a poink" *^«iiof little below the angle of the mandible. I '^h Action.—(1) To draw downwards and outwards the lower lip, by means of isconi e #arii