THE VEINS 680 superficial radial vein immediately above the bend of the elbow, forms the cephalic vein. The musculo-ciitaneous nerve passes beneath it, a few fibres of the nerve lying superficial to it. The median basilic vein, the larger of the two divisions of the median vein, runs upwards and inwards across the semilunar fascia of the biceps, by which it is separated from the brachial artery, to the internal bicipital sulcus, where it joins one of the superficial ulnar veins or their united trunk to form the basilic. Fibres of the internal cutaneous nerve pass both in front and behind it. This vein is Fig. 895.—The Bend of the Elbow with the Superficial Veins. (From a dissection b}^ Dr. Alder Smith in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.) MEDIAN NERVE AnastomoHca magna BRANCHES ( OF INTERNA/. { CUTANEO US NER VE [ Posterior ulnar vein Braeliialis antieus Anastomotica magna artery \\ Anterior ulnar vein Median basilic vein MUSCULAR BRANCH OF MEDIAN NERVE Tendon of biceps Bicipital fascia BraeMalis antieus Deep median vein Ulnar artery Pronator teres Radial artery Biceps Basilic vein Braeliialis antieus Cephalic vein Brachial artery EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NER VE Muscnlo-$piral n. and ascend, br. of radial recur, art. Radial vein Median cephalic vein Asce7iditig br. of radial recurrent RADIAL NERVE Radial recurrent artery Supinator longus Descending br. of radial recurrent Median vein RADIAL NER VE especially prominent at the bend of the elbow; and, on account of its larger size and superficial position, was usually chosen in venesection when this operation was in vogue. The lancet, if care was not taken, was liable to pass through the bicipital fascia and injure the artery, when varicose aneurysm or aneurysmal varix was a common result. The cephalic vein, formed by the union of the median cephalic with the super- ficial radial vein, courses upwards first in the external bicipital sulcus, and then, in the interval between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, perforates the costo-