FOB AMEN MAGNUM 2D by the parietal and mastoid portion of the petrosal on each side. The ridge between the superior and lateral angles is the superior border; it is serrated deeply, and articulates with the posterior border of the parietal to form the lambdoid suture. The inferior border extends from the lateral angle to the jugular process ; it articulates with the mastoid portion of the petrosal. The ex-occipitals form the lateral boundaries of the foramen magnum, and extend from the ridge immediately behind the groove for the termination of the lateral sinus to the tubercle in front of the anterior condyloid foramen. The lateral surface of each ex-occipital is extended outwards to form a quadrilateral buttress of bone, the jugular process. This has an outer rough surface for articu- lation with the jugular surface of the petrosal. Its anterior border is deeply notched to form the posterior boundary of the jugular foramen, and is directly continuous with a groove which lodges the termination of the lateral sinus. Its under surface gives attachment to the rectus cajjitis lateralis and the oblique occipito-atlantal ligament. The pneumatic mastoid cells occasionally extend into this process. Rarely a process of bone extends from its under surface and Fig. 83.—The Foramen Magnum at the Sixth Year. represents the imr-occiintal lyrocess present in many mammals. The rest of the ex-occipitals enter into the formation of the condyles, and will be separately described. The basi-occipital is a quadrilateral plate of bone. Its superior surface is concave for the medulla oblongata. Inferiorly it is rough, and presents the pharyngeal tubercle, to Avhich the median portion of the fibrous bag of the pharynx is attached. The rectus capitis anticus major and minor muscles are inserted into this surface. Anteriorly the basi-occipital is, in the adult, ankylosed to the basi- sphenoid. Posteriorly it has a smooth, rounded, narrow, concave border forming the anterior boundary of the foramen magnum. The extremities of this border enlarge to join the ex-occipitals, and form the anterior extremities of the condyles. The lateral borders are rough, and articulate with the inferior border of the petrosals. The foramen magnum is oval in shape, with its major axis in the long axis of the skull. Near the middle it is encroached upon by the condyles. It is bounded posteriorly by the supra-occipital, anteriorly by the basi-occipital, and laterally by the ex-occipitals. Sometimes a facet exists at the anterior margin for articulation with the odontoid process. This is the tertiary occipital condyle. The margin