325 BBAGHIALIS ANTIGUS—BBACHIO-BADIALIS 2. BRACHIALIS ANTICUS The brachialis anticus—named from its intimate relation with the front surface the bone of the upper arm (bmchium)—is a thick, somewhat fusiform sheet, rved from side to side to fit on to the convex anterior surface of the humerus, id shghtly bifid above. I Origin.—The whole of the lower three-fifths of the front surface of the humerus, |ith the exception of the small space on its inner aspect occupied by the coraco- achialis and the impression upon the outer aspect for the deltoid muscle, upon fcher side of which it sends up two small pointed processes ; (2) the front of the ternal intermuscular septum ; (8) a small portion of the upper part of the front of iB external intermuscular septum above the point where it is pierced by the usculo-spiral nerve. Insertion.—The inner and lower part of the rough triangular impression upon 16 front of the coronoid process of the ulna. I Structure.—The greater part of its origin is by fleshy fibres which converge iDon a tendinous sheet which makes its appearance at first upon the anterior irface of the muscle, just above the level of the elbow joint. This tendinous leet receives the converging fleshy fibres upon its posterior aspect, and becomes ::adually thicker until it forms a very strong tendon of insertion which is closely mnected with the front of the anterior ligament of the elbow joint. The lower id outer portion of the muscle is deeply grooved by the brachio-radialis (supinator •ngus), so that it often looks like a separate muscle. Nerve-supply.—(1) From the external cord of the brachial plexus (through the xth cervical nerve) by branches of the external cutaneous nerve which enter 18 anterior surface of the muscle near the inner border of its upper third ; i) from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the seventh cervical erve) by a small filament from the musculo-spiral nerve which enters the front of lat part of the muscle which is concealed by the origin of the brachio-radialis iupinator longus). Action.—To flex the ulnar half of the forearm. Like the biceps, it will form a iver of the third order, but with much mechanical disadvantage on account [ the proximity of its insertion to the axis of the elbow joint. There will be, owever, a proportional gain in speed and range of movement. Relations.—In front, the deep fascia on the outer side of the arm which 3parates it from the cephalic vein, the biceps, coraco-brachialis, deltoid, bracliio- idialis, (supinator longus), and extensor carpi radialis longior, the brachial vessels, ledian and musculo-spiral nerves ; behind, the triceps and elbow joint. Variations.—The brachialis anticus is sometimes divided into two heads by a continua- on of the cleft between the two pointed processes above mentioned, or by a separation f a part of the outer half. Occasionally it gives off muscular slips to the radius or 16 fascia of the forearm, also to adjacent muscles such as the pronator teres, the brachio- lidialis, and the extensor carpi radialis longior. 3. BRACHIO-RADIALIS j The brachio-radialis (supinator longus) is described with the radial group of jiuscles (page 339).