GLUTEUS MINIMUS-PYBIFOBMIS 815 Insertion.—The well-marked vertical impression which forms the anterior border of the greater trochanter. Structure.—From the fleshy origin the fibres converge fanwise upon the deep surface of the tendon which makes its appearance about half-way down the muscle upon the front part of its outer surface and covers the whole of the outer surface of the muscle from this point down to its insertion. By its anterior border this muscle is closely blended with the anterior border of the gluteus medius and with some of the ligaments of the hip joint. Like the preceding muscle, it is also much thicker and stronger in front. Nerve - supply.—From the same sources as the preceding by the superior gluteal nerve, which distributes filaments to the middle of its outer surface near its posterior border. Action.—The same as the preceding : viz. to abduct and rotate inwards the hip joint; and when it takes its fixed point from below, as is most usually the case, to flex the pelvis laterally and at the same time to rotate the other side forwards. Relations.—Superficially, the gluteus medius, the superior gluteal vessels and nerve ; deeply, the capsule of the hip joint, and posterior head of the rectus femoris. Variations.—The front part of the muscle may be separate from the rest. It occa- isionally sends slips to the adjacent muscles. THE EXTEENAL EOTATOES OF THE THIGH This group consists of six somewhat short muscles, which run transversely from the pelvic bones to the femur, and which follow immediately after the lower fibres of the gluteus minimus—viz. the pyriformis, the obturator internus with the two gemelli, the quadratus femoris, and the obturator externus. 1. PYEIFORMIS The pyriformis—named from its pear shape (2JW'?ts=pear)—is a thick triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The side of the front of the sacrum between the first, second, third, and fourth foramina ; (2) the deep surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament ; (3) the posterior border of the innominate bone at the upper part of the great sacro- sciatic notch. Insertion.—A small facet upon the inner aspect of the anterior part of the upper border of the greater trochanter. Structure.—The greater part of the muscle arises by three fleshy slips on the ridges of bone between, and external to, the anterior sacral foramina. From this origin, which receives accessory slips of small size from the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the upper portion of the great sacro-sciatic notch, the fibres converge as they pass transversely outwards and somewhat backwards through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The tendon is first visible upon the deep aspect of the muscle, and it becomes free near the posterior border of the greater trochanter. Shortly before its insertion it is closely blended with the tendon of the obturator internus muscle. Nerve-supply.—From the sacral plexus by small branches which pass from the second sacral nerve into the anterior surface of the muscle near its origin. Action.—To rotate the thigh outwards. When the thigh is fixed, it will rotate