696 THE LYMPHATICS latissimus dorsi behind. They all converge towards the axilla, and end in the axillary glands. The lymphatics of the mammary gland end for the most part in the pectoral set of the axillary glands, but those from the inner portion of the gland pass through the second, third, and fourth intercostal spaces into the internal mammary lymphatic chain of glands, and thus open into the thoracic duct on the left, and the right lymphatic duct on the right side. According to Macalister, the lymphatics from the nipple and areola pass more deeply into the axilla, and end in one of the axillary glands, placed nearer to the clavicle than the pectoral set. The deep parietal lymphatics are subdivided into (1) the intercostal and (2) the diaphragmatic. (1) The intercostal lymphatics accompany the intercostal arteries and receive the lymph from the intercostal muscles and the parietal pleura. Those in the anterior part of the intercostal space run forwards and end in the internal mammary or anterior intercostal lymphatic glands. Those in the posterior part of the space run backwards, and—after receiving the dorsal lymphatic vessels which accompany the dorsal branches of the intercostal arteries between the transverse processes of the vertebra, and return the lymph from the muscles of the back and from the spinal canal—end in the intercostal or posterior intercostal lymphatic glands. (2) The diaphragmatic lymphatics follow the vessels of the diaphragm. They terminate, anteriorly in the internal mammary and anterior mediastinal lymphatic glands ; postero-laterally in the lower intercostal lymphatics and in the lymphatics accompanying the musculo-phrenic artery ; and posteriorly in the posterior medi- astinal glands. The lymphatics from the vertebral portion of the diaphragm end in the lumbar glands (see Lymphatics of Abdomen, page 701). Some of the lymphatics from the right side join the hepatic lymphatics. 2. The parietal lymphatic glands are also divided into the superficial and the deep. The superficial parietal glands.—The three or four glands along the lower border of the pectoralis major, described here as the pectoral set of the axillary glands, are by some authors classed as superficial thoracic glands. They receive the lymphatics from the front of the chest, and some of the lymphatics of the mammary gland. There is also occasionally a superficial gland a little below the ensiform cartilage called the epigastric gland. It receives, when present, some of the lymphatics from the lower anterior chest walls and upper part of the abdomen. The deep parietal glands are:—(1) The internal mammary, sternal, or anterior intercostal; and (2) the intercostal or posterior intercostal. (1) The internal mammary, sternal, or anterior intercostal glands lie along the course of the internal mammary artery behind the costal cartilages of the true ribs. There is usually one gland corresponding to each intercostal space. These glands receive the lymphatics from the anterior part of the intercostal spaces, the lymphatics ascending with the superior epigastric artery from the abdominal walls, the lymphatics accompanying the musculo-phrenic artery from the diaphragm and lower intercostal spaces, and the lymphatics from the inner portion of the mammary gland. The efferent vessels from the uppermost glands join the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts respectively, but some of the efferent vessels of the lower glands join the anterior mediastinal glands. (2) The intercostal or posterior intercostal lymphatic glands lie in the posterior end of each intercostal space about the level of the heads of the ribs. They receive the lymphatics accompanying the intercostal vessels from the posterior parts of the intercostal spaces, and the lymphatics from the deep muscles of the back, and from the spinal canal. The lowermost also receive some of the lymphatics from the diaphragm. On the lefi: side their efferent vessels open into the thoracic duct. On the right side the efferent vessels from the lower glands also join the thoracic