OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 876 Over the tarsal part of the lid, the conjunctiva is closely adherent, but beyond this it is freely movable along with the loose submucous tissue here present. On tracing it backwards, we find that it covers the whole inner surface of the lids, and is then continued forwards over the front of the eyeball, forming the ocular conjunctiva; the bend it makes as it changes its direction here is called the conjunctival cul-de- sac, or fornix. Numerous underlying blood-vessels are visible through the palpebral conjunctiva, and beneath the tarsal part of it we can see a series of nearly straight, parallel, light yellow lines, arranged perpendicularly to the free margin of the lid— the Meibomian follicles. The conjunctiva over the outer and inner fourths of each lid is not quite so smooth as elsewhere, and is normally of a deeper red colour; we shall find later that there are glands well developed in these positions. When the eyelids are opened naturally, we see through the palpebral aperture the following: the greater part of the transparent cornea, and behind it the coloured iris with the pupil in its centre ; white sclerotic to the outer and inner sides of the cornea ; the semilunar fold and lachrymal caruncle at the inner canthus. The extent of the eyeball visible in this way varies according to its position. Thus, with the eyes looking straight forwards, the lower margin of the upper lid is nearly opposite to the top of the cornea, or, more strictly, to a line midway between the Fig. 472.—View of Eyeball, etc., obtained on drawing the Lids forcibly apart. (After Merkel, slightly modified.) ■CONJUNCTIVAL FORNIX top of the cornea and the upper border of the pupil, while the lower lid corresponds with the lower corneal margin. When the eyes are directed strongly upwards, the upper lid is relatively on a slightly higher level, as it is simultaneously raised, but the lower lid now leaves a strip of sclerotic exposed below the cornea. On looking downwards, the upper lid covers the upper part of the cornea as low down as the level of the top of the pupil, while the lower lid is about midway between the pupil and the lower corneal border. If we draw the eyelids forcibly apart, we expose the whole cornea, and a zone of sclerotic about eight and a half millimetres in breadth above and below, and ten millimetres in breadth to the outer and inner sides, altogether about one-third of the globe ; all the eyeball thus exposed is covered by the ocular conjunctiva. Over the sclerotic the conjunctiva is freely movable, and through it we see superficial blood-vessels that can be made to slip from side to side along with it (conjunctival vessels). Occasionally other deeper vessels may also be seen which do not move with the conjunctiva, but are attached to the sclerotic (anterior ciliary arteries and veins). Near the corneal border the conjunctiva ceases to be freely movable, and it is closely adherent to the whole anterior surface of the cornea, giving the latter its characteristic bright, reflecting appearance; no blood-vessels are visible through it here in health. (When the lids are shut, the space enclosed between their posterior