DEVELOPMENT OF GENITO-UBINABY ORGANS 109B e mesonepliros, mid-kidney, or Wolffian body. Still farther back, from the posterior end of 6 duct, springs the metanephros, or hind-kidney, a mesoblastic growth around a hollow anching protrusion from the duct, with which tubules and glomeruli subsequently come connected. The pronephros quickly disappears in the higher vertebrates; the esonephros, which reaches its maximum development by the sixth week, soon ceases to scharge its renal function, and either becomes a useless relic in the broad ligament of the male pelvis, or undergoes transformation into an essential part of the male generative iparatus; while the metanephros becomes developed into the permanent kidney, le ureter and uriniferous tubules probably originate as special outgrowths from the sterior part of the Wolffian duct. The morphology of the suprarenal body is somewhat ubtful, but it is probable that the medulla is a derivative of the sjanpathetic system, and nee of epiblastic origin; while the cortex is a mesoblastic development in connection with e fore end of the Wolffian duct. It is at first larger than the kidney, but the latter iiains an equal bulk by the tenth week, and then continues to increase, becoming (Qsiderably the greater by the end of foetal life ; but even at birth the suprarenal bodies ;|e proportionately much larger than in the adult. Fig. 644. —Diagram of the Primitive Genito-urinary Organs before Differentiation of Sex. (After Henle.) OF BLADDER ! OF URETERS OF MULLERIAN DUCT PENIS CLITORIS The urinary bladder appears in the second month as a transformation of the pedicle of allantois, a structure which has already done service in conveying the vessels of the ei^ryo to the placenta. The allantois is a hypoblastic sac invested by a layer of mesoblast, commimicating with the hind gut. That portion of it which Kes within the body )mes dilated at its central part into the minary bladder, but remains narrow at both emities, forming in front the urachus; and behind, the whole urethra in the female, the upper part of the prostatic urethra in the male. The generative apparatus is developed from the Wolffian ducts and from two other Bd structures closely related to these, but of somewhat later formation—the Miillerian iS and the genital glands. From the Wolffian body ics tubules and its duct are formed, in the male, the whole of thjexcretory tubes outside the body of the testicle, namely, the vasa efferentia, the coni ;ulosi, the tube of the epididymis, the vas deferens, the ejaculatory duct, and the jtdidymis (the organ of Giraldes). In the female the structure dwindles away, leaving i^estiges as the parovarium and the duct of Gartner (the latter being occasionally onstrable in the human subject).