THE FOOT 1241 Bursse and synovial membranes.—The synovial sheath of the extensor proprius hallucis extends from the front of the ankle, over the instep, as far as the metatarsal bone of the great toe. There is generally a bm^sa over the instep, above, or it may be below, the tendon. There is often an irregular bursa between the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and the projecting end of the astragalus over which the tendons play. There is much friction here. It is well to be aware that this bursa sometimes communicates with the joint of the head of the astragalus (Holden). There is a deep synovial bursa between the tendo Achillis and the calcaneum. Numerous other bursse may appear over any of the bony points in the foot, especially when they are rendered over-prominent by morbid conditions. Fig. 785.—Plantar Arteries (Deep). (From a dissection in the Hunterian Museum.) Internal calcanean branch of posterior tibial Posterior tibial artery - Abductor liallucis, cut— Internal platitar artery Inner head of flexor aceessorius Flexor longus lialKicis . External plantar artery Adductor liallueis - Flexor brevis liallueis Princeps hallucis artery Flexor tendons,. cut short Collateral digital branch of princeps hallucis to inner side of great toe Cutaneous and anastomotic branches of e.iier/i'il plantar Outer head of flexor aceessorius Abnormal muscular slip Muscular branch Cutaneous branch Collateral digital artery to outer side of little toe Second digital artery Third digital artery Fourth digital artery Synovial membranes.—In addition to that of the ankle jomt, thei;e are six synovial membranes in the tarsus, viz. :-(l) Posterior calcaneo-astragaloid, peculiar to these bones; (2) anterior calcaneo-astragaloid, common to these bones and the scaphoid; (3) between the calcaneum and the cuboid ; (4) between the cuboid aiid the outer two metatarsals ; (5) between the internal cuneiform and tiie hrst met^- arsal; (6) a complicated and extensive one, which branches out between the >caphoid and cuneiform bones; between the cuneiforms; between the external cuneiform and the cuboid; between the middle and outer cuneiform and the second