230 THE ABTICULATIONS occur between the clavicle and the fibro-cartilage; during elevation of the arm, the upper edge of the clavicle with its attached fibro-cartilage is pressed into the sternal socket, and the lower edge glides away from the cartilage; during de- pression of the limb, the lower edge of the clavicle presses on to the cartilage, while the rest of the articular surface of the clavicle inclines outwards, bringing with it to a slight degree the upper edge of the fibro-cartilage. These movements occur on an antero-posterior axis drawn through the outer compartment of the joint. The forward and backward motions take place between the cartilage and sternum, the clavicle with the cartilage rolling backwards upon the sternum when the shoulder is brought forwards, and forwards when the shoulder is forced back- wards ; these movements occur round an axis drawn nearly vertically through the sternal socket. The interarticular cartilage serves materially to bind the bones together, and to prevent the inward and upward displacements of the clavicle. It also forms an' elastic buffer which tends to break shocks. The capsule, by being moderately! tight, tends to limit movements in all directions, while the interclavicular ligamentj is a safeguard against upward displacement during depression of the arm. The! rhomboid ligament prevents dislocation upwards during elevation of the arm, and! resists displacements backwards. | 2. THE SCAPULO-CLAVICULAR UNION The scapula is connected with the clavicle by a synovial joint with ita ligaments ; and also by a set of ligaments passing between the coracoid processj and the clavicle. So that we have to consider— (a) The acromio-clavicular articulation. (h) The coraco-clavicular ligaments. 1 (c) The proper scapular ligaments are also best described in this section—viz.! the coraco-acromial and transverse. {a) The Aceomio-claviculae Joint Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. The acromio-clavicular joint frequently contains an interarticular fibro-carti'^ lage, and is surrounded by a capsular ligament. ; The capsular ligament (figs. 223 and 226) completely surrounds the articular margins, and is composed of strong, coarse fibres arranged in parallel fasciculi, of fairly uniform thickness, which are attached to the borders as well as the surfaces oi the bones. It is somewhat lax in all positions of the joint, so that the clavicle is not tightly braced to the acromion. The fibres extend three-quarters of an inch (2 cm.) along the clavicle posteriorly, but only a quarter of an inch (6 mm.) anteriorly. Superiorly, they are attached to an oblique line joining these two points, while inferiorly the}^ reach to the ridge for the trapezoid ligament with' which they blend. At the acromion they extend half way across the upper and lower surfaces, but at the anterior and posterior borders of that process they arei attached close to the articular facet. The anterior fibres become blended withl the insertion of the coraco-acromial ligament. The fibres are strengthened abovej by the aponeuroses of the trapezius and deltoid muscles; and all run from the' acromion to the clavicle inwards and backwards. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is occasionally present, but is usually im-,, perfect, only occupying the upper part of the joint; it may completely divide the] joint into two cavities, or be perforated in the centre. It is usually thicker at the