THE SKELETON 182 facet for the first metatarsal. The outer (fibular) side of the base has two facets! each subdivided in well-marked bones. The dorsal facet is long and narrow ; th(! posterior section articulates with the external cuneiform; the anterior is for tb; third metatarsal. The lower facet is somewhat circular : its posterior section is fo:| the external cuneiform, the anterior for the third metatarsal. The terminal facet ori the base is for the middle cuneiform : thus the second metatarsal articulates witl three cuneiform bones. i Muscles.—-Adductor hallucis ; first and second dorsal interosseous. ! Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery enters on the fibular side near the middl(! of the shaft, and is directed towards the base of the bone. , The THIRD METATARSAL articulates by its base with the external cuneiform' It has on the inner (tibial) side two facets : one below the other for the secondl metatarsal, and a large facet on the fibular side for the fourth metatarsal. Fig. 188.—The Fifth (Left) Metatarsal. FIBULAR OR OUTER SIDE •TUBEROSITY Muscles.—Adductor hallucis ; first plantar; second and third dorsal inter- osseous. Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery enters on the inner (tibial) side of the shaft near its middle : it is directed towards the base. The FOURTH METATARSAL has a somewhat quadrilateral terminal facet for the cuboid bone. On its inner (tibial) side it has a large facet for the third metatarsal: the posterior part of this is occasionally marked off for the external cuneiform, but this is far from constant. When this cuneiform facet is present, the facet extends to the base of the bone. When absent, the surface is rough for ligament. The outer (fibular) side has a single facet for the fifth metatarsal. Muscles.—Adductor hallucis ; second plantar interosseous ; third and fourth dorsal interosseous. | Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery of the shaft enters on the inner (tibials side I and runs towards the base. The FIFTH METATARSAL has on the fibular side of its base a large nipple- ^ shaped tuberosity, to which the tendon of the peroneiis brevis is inserted. Its j oblique terminal facet articulates with the cuboid, and on the tibial side it has a