LUMBAR VEBTEBB^ 13 The first has a body resembling a cervical vertebra, the upper surface being concave and lipped laterally; it has two entire facets above for the first pair, and two demi-facets below for the second pair of ribs. The spinous process is thick, strong, almost horizontal, and more prominent than the vertebra prominens. Occasionally the transverse process is perforated near its root. The ninth has demi-facets above, and usually none below; when the inferior demi-facets are present, this vertebra is not exceptional. The tenth usually has an entire costal facet at its upper border, on each side, but occasionally only demi-facets. It has no lower demi-facets, and the facets on the transverse processes are usually small. The eleventh has a large body resembling a lumbar vertebra. The rib facets are on the pedicles ; they are complete and of large size. The transverse processes are short and have no facets for the tubercles of the eleventh pair of ribs. In many mammals the spines of the anterior vertebrae are directed backwards, and those of the posterior directed forwards ; in the centre of the column there is usually one spine vertical. This is called the anti-clinal vertebra. It is at this point that the thoracic begin to assume the characters of lumbar vertebrae. In man, the eleventh thoracic is the anti-clinal vertebra. The twelfth resembles in general characters the eleventh, but may be distin- guished from it in having the inferior articular processes convex and turned outwards as in the lumbar vertebrae. It also resembles a lumbar vertebra by possessing well-marked mammillary and accessory tubercles. These tubercles are occasionally present on the tenth and eleventh vertebrae. A peculiarity, more frequent in the thoracic and lumbar than in the cervical and sacral regions of the column, is the existence of a half-vertebra. Such speci- mens have a wedge-shaped half-centrum, to which are attached a lamina, a transverse, superior and inferior articular, and half a spinous process. As a rule, a half-vertebra is ankylosed to the vertebrae above and below. The distinguishing features of lumbar vertebrae are their large size; the margins of the centrum are prominent; the pedicles are stout and strong ; the LUMBAE VEETEBRiE Fig. 13.—A Lumbar Vertebra. (Side view.) SUPERIOR ARTICULAR PROCESS -ACCESSORY PROCESS inferior intervertebral notches are deep, and the laminae are thick and strong. The superior articular processes have concave facets directed backwards and