INTEBNAL MAXILLARY 523 forwards and inwards parallel to and a little below the auriculo-temporal nerve and the external pterygoid muscle. It is here surrounded by the deep portion of the parotid gland, and usually crosses in front of the mandibular (inferior dental) nerve. (2) In the second part of its course (the pterygoid portion) the artery Hes either between the two pterygoid muscles and the ramus of the jaw, and then turns upwards over the outer surface of the external pterygoid beneath the temporal muscle to gain the two heads of the external pterygoid, between which it sinks into the spheno-maxillary fossa; or it passes behind and internal to the external ptery- goid, and is covered by that muscle till it reaches the interval between its two Fig. 33G.—Scheme of Inteenal Maxillary Aeteey. InfraorUlal arterii and nerve hpheno-palatine branch Posterior or descending palatine branch Naso-pcdatine branch \ I dian branch Anterior deep temporal artery External pterygoid branch Posterior deep temporal artery , / Small meningeal .I , artery . ./ / ^Middle meningeal y//. artery Alveolar branch Wfjn' ,7/ jf^/ " Mas Temporal artery 'ympanic branch Deep auricular ■anch Masseteric branch External carotid artery Internal lateral ligament Mandibular artery a7id nerve i Submental branch Buccal branch with portion of buccal nerve Internal pterygoid branch Mnlo-hvoidean branch heads, where it then often forms a projecting loop as it turns into the spheno- maxillary fossa. (3) In the third part of its course (the spheno-maxillary portion) the artery lies in the spheno-maxillary fossa beneath the maxillary division of the fifth nerve, and in close relationship with Meckel's ganglion, and there breaks up into its terminal branches. Branches of the Internal Maxillary Artery The branches of the internal maxillary artery are as follow :— (A) From the first part:—(1) The deep auricular ; (2) the tympanic ; (3) the (middle meningeal; (4) the mandibular (inferior dental) ; (5) the small meningeal [(sometimes). All these vessels pass through bony or cartilaginous canals.