OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 884 round near the pupillary border, we find a broad flat band of smooth muscle fibres, constituting the sphincter iridis. Immediately behind the vascular tissue lies a thin membrane, consisting of fine, straight fibres running radially from the ciliary border to just behind the sphincter. These fibres are often described as muscular, but in the absence of satisfactory evidence of their being of this nature, they are better regarded as elastic, the whole membrane serving to dilate the pupil on relaxation of the sphincter. Among mammals, radial muscle-fibres a,re present in the iris of the otter, and probably also in that of the rabbit; in all the others examined their existence is very doubtful. In birds the muscular system of the iris is of the striped variety, and many of the fibres certainly- run radially, so that the possibility of a muscular dilating action is provided for. The sphincter iridis and the ciliary muscle are supplied by the third nerve, by way of the ciliary ganglion. Quite posteriorly is the pigment already mentioned, really consisting of two layers of pigmented cells, each lawyer representing the extension forward of one subdivision of the retina. The front of the iris is covered by a delicate epithelial layer, a continuation of that lining Descemet's membrane. The colour of the iris in difierent individuals depends upon the amount of stromal pigment. 3. The innermost or nervous coat.—The inner surface of the uveal tract is everywhere lined by a layer of pigment of corresponding extent, which usually adheres to it closely on dissection. Developmentally, however, this general pigment lining is quite distinct from the uveal coat, and represents the outer loall of the secondary optic vesicle or embryonic retina: it consists of a single layer of pigmented epithelial cells. The amount of pigment is greatest anteriorly, over the ciliary region and iris, and there is again a small local increase posteriorly, corresponding to the macula lutea and to the edge of the optic foramen. Jn the ciliary region these cells have recently been described as lining numerous narrow tubular depressions in the inner part of the uveal tract, and they seem here to have a special function, viz. that of secreting the intraocular fluids. From the manner in which the secondary optic vesicle, or optic mqj, is formed, its two walls are necessarily continuous in front, at what may be termed the Up of the cup : we have just observed that the outer wall lines the uveal coat everywhere and corresponds in extent ; consequently, the lip must be looked for at the edge of the pupil, i.e. at the termination of this coat anteriorly. The ifiner ivall of the cup, consequently, reaches from the lip, or pupillary edge, in front, to the optic stalk or nerve behind, and is in close apposition to the pigment-epithelium ; unlike the outer, however, this wall is represented in the developed eye by tissues very dissimilar in structure in different parts of its extent. Tracing it backwards from the pupillary edge, we find that over the whole posterior surface of the iris it exists as a single layer of pigmented epithelium, the developmental changes having here produced a result similar to what we have found throughout in the outer wall: here, accordingly, we have a double layer of pigment cells. At the root of the iris the single inner layer of cells still exists ; but now they become destitute of pigment, and this condition obtains over the entire ciliary region, constituting what is known as the pars ciliaris retinae. At the line of the ora serrata the tissue derived from the inner wall abruptly increases in thickness, and rapidly acquires that complexity of structure characteristic of the retina proper, which extends from here to the optic nerve. It consists of several layers—nerve-fibres, nerve-cells, and nerve-epithelium—held together by a supporting framework of delicate connective tissue. The nerve- epithelium is on the outer surface, immediately applied to the pigment-epithelium; at the posterior pole of the eye a small spot (fovea centralis) exists, where this is the only retinal layer represented, and where consequently the retina is extremely thin. The nerve-fibres run on the inner surface of the retina and are continuous