238 THE ABTICULATIONS ascends in its socket, the arm at length reaches the side, and the capsule is com- pletely relaxed. In circumduction, the humerus, by passing quickly through these movements, describes a cone, whose apex is at the shoulder joint, and the base at the distal extremity of the bone or limb. Eotation takes place round a vertical axis drawn through the extremities of the humerus from the centre of the head to the inner condyle ; in rotation forwards (that is, inwards) the head of the bone rolls back in the socket as the great tuberosity ; and shaft are turned forwards ; in rotation backwards (that is, outwards) the head i of the bone glides forwards, and the tuberosity and shaft of the humerus are turned ' backwards, i.e. outwards. Great freedom of movement is permitted at the shoulder, and this is increased by the mobility of the scapula. Eestraint is scarcely exercised at all upon the movements of the shoulder by the ligaments, but chiefly by the muscles of the joint. In abduction, the lower part of the capsule is somewhat, and in extreme abduction considerably, tightened; and in rotation inwards and outwards, the upper part of the capsule is made tense, as is also, in the latter movement, the coraco-humeral ligament. The movements of abduction and extension have a most decided and definite resistance offered to them other than by muscles and ligaments, for the great tuberosity of the humerus, by striking against the acromion process and coraco- acromial ligament, stops short any further advance of the bone in these directions, and thus abduction ceases altogether as soon as the arm is raised to a right angle with the trunk, and extension shortly after the humerus passes the line of the trunk. Further elevation of the arm beyond the right angle is effected by the rotation of the scapula round its own axis by the action of the trapezius and serratus magnus muscles upon the sterno-clavicular and acromio-clavicular joints. The acromion and coracoid processes, together with the coraco-acromial ligament, form an arch, which is separated by a bursa and the tendon of the supra-spmatus from the capsule of the shoulder. Beneath this arch the movements of the joint take place, and against it the head and tuberosities are pressed when the weight of the trunk is supported by the arms ; the greater tuberosity and the upper part of the shaft impinge upon it when abduction and extension are carried to their fullest extent. No description of the shoulder joint would be complete without a short notice of the peculiar relation which the biceps tendon bears to the joint. It passes over the head of the humerus a little to the inner side of its summit, and lies free within the capsule, surrounded only by a tubular process of synovial membrane. It is flat, with the surfaces looking upwards and downwards, until it reaches the bicipital groove, when it assumes a rounded form. It strengthens the articulation along the same course as the coraco-humeral ligament, and tends to prevent the head of the humerus being pulled upwards too forcibly against the under surface of the acromion. It also serves the purpose of a ligament by steadying the head of the humerus in various movements of the arm and forearm, and to this end is let into a groove at the upper end of the bone, from which it cannot escape on account of the abutting tuberosities and the strong transverse humeral ligament which binds it down. Further, it acts like the four shoulder muscles, which pass over the capsule to keep the head of the humerus against the glenoid socket ; and, more- over, it resists the tendency of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles, in certain actions when the arm is away from the side of the body, to pull the head of the humerus below the lower edge of the cavity.