245 OF THE BADIUS WITH THE ULNA ;t the axis of the former if prolonged falls upon the centre of the circle of which latter is a segment ; ' the axis thus passes through the lower end of the ulna at oint at which the triangular fibro-cartilage is attached, and if prolonged further ses through the ring finger. Thus the radius describes, in rotating, a blunt- ped cone whose apex is the centre of the radial head, and whose base is at the st; thus partial rotation of the bone is unaccompanied by any hinge-like or ero-posterior motion of its head, and pronation and supination occur without iurbance to the parallelism of the bones at the superior radio-ulnar joint, lociated with this rotation in the ordinary way, there is some rotation of the nero-ulnar shaft, which causes lateral shifting of the hand from side to side ; s, with pronation there is some abduction, and with supination some adduction ibined, so that the hand can keep on the same superficies in both pronation and ination. The power of supination in man is much greater than pronation, ng to the immense power and leverage obtained by the curve of the radius, [ by the attachment of the biceps tendon to the back of the tubercle. For this son all our screw-driving and boring tools are made to be used by supination cements. In the undissected state, the amount of rotation it is possible to obtain is about °, so that neither the palm nor the fore part of the lower end of the radius can iurned completely in opposite directions ; yet in the living subject this amount be greatly increased by rotation of the humero-ulnar shaft at the shoulder joint. Pronation is checked in the living subject by the posterior inferior radio-ulnar ,ment, which is strengthened by the connection of the sheath of the extensor Ions with it ; by the lowermost fibres of the interosseous membrane, the back t of the internal and adjacent fibres of the posterior ligament of the wrist, and meeting of the soft parts on the front of the forearm. Supination is checked mainly by the internal lateral ligament of the wrist, but tly also by the oblique radio-ulnar ligament, the anterior inferior radio-ulnar, by the lowest fibres of the interosseous membrane. The interosseous membrane serves, from the direction of its fibres downwards inwards from the radius to the ulna, to transmit the weight of the body from ulna to the radius in the extended position of the elbow, as in pushing forwards 1 the arms extended, or in supporting one's own weight on the hands, the ulna ig in firm contact with the humerus, but scarcely at all with the carpus ; while radius is scarcely in contact with the humerus, but in firm contact with the Dus. Hence the weight transmitted by the ulna is communicated to the radius he tightening of the interosseous membrane. Conversely, in falls upon the hand 1 the arm extended, the interosseous membrane acts as a sling to break the ence of the shock, and prevents the whole force of the impact expending itself ictly upon the capitellum. 6. THE RADIO-CAKPAL ARTICULATION Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus (with double hinge joint action.) The wrist joint is formed by the union of the radius and triangular fibro-car- 3'e above, articulating with the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones below ; ulna being excluded by the intervention of the triangular fibro-cartilage. The Lus and triangular cartilage together present a smooth surface, slightly concave 1 from before backwards, and from side to side ; whilst the three bones of the 3US present a smooth, convex surface, made uniformly even by the interosseous .ments which bind them together.