OB TUBA TOB—SCIA TIG 607 is sometimes of large size, a fact of sm^gical interest in that the enlarged vessel may 1 then run round the inner side of the femoral ring (page 613). I B. Extrapelvic branches.—(1) The external branch skirts the external margin i of the thyroid foramen,' lying between the obturator externus and the obturator i membrane. At the lower margin of the foramen it divides into two branches. One branch continues its course round the loAver margin of the foramen, and anasto- moses with the internal branch of the obturator and with the internal circumflex. I The other branch turns outwards below the acetabulum, and ends in the muscles j arising from the tuberosity of the ischium. It anastomoses with the sciatic artery. This branch gives off a small twig which passes under the transverse ligament into the hip joint, where it supplies the synovial membrane, the ligamentum teres, and the fat in the fossa at the bottom of the acetabulum. (2) The internal branch runs round the inner margin of the thyroid foramen, and anastomoses with the inner division of the external branch and with the internal j circumflex artery. It supplies branches to the obturator and adductor muscles. ! 7. THE SCIATIC AETERY i The sciatic artery—the larger of the terminal branches of the anterior division j of the internal iliac—passes over the sacral plexus and pyriformis muscle to the I lower part of the great sciatic foramen, where it leaves the pelvis with the pudic j artery, behind and external to which it lies, by passing between the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles. On emerging from the great sciatic foramen in the gluteal region under cover of the gluteus maximus, it descends to the inner side of the great sciatic I nerve, lying midway between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter on the gemellus superior, obturator internus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and upper part of the adductor magnus muscles. It anastomoses with the internal circumflex artery, and superior perforating branch of the profunda. The branches of the sciatic artery are divided into the intra- and extra-pelvic. The intrapelvic branches are small and unimportant, and irregular in their origin and distribution. They are given off to the levator ani, coccygeus, and pyriformis muscles, the rectum, bladder, prostate gland, and vesicul* seminales. I The extrapelvic branches are : (1) The coccygeal; (2) inferior gluteal; (3) mus- I cular; (4) anastomotic ; (5) articular ; (6) cutaneous ; and (7) comes nervi ischiatici. (1) The coccygeal is a small branch which passes inwards, and, piercing the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, is lost in the integument over the lower part of the sacrum and coccyx. It gives several branches to the , lower and internal part of the gluteus maximus as it passes through it. i' (2) The inferior gluteal is a fairly large branch which arises from the sciatic i just below the coccygeal, and, turning upwards and inwards into the deep surface ! of the gluteus maximus along with the inferior gluteal nerve, supplies that muscle, and anastomoses with the gluteal artery. (3) The muscular branches, variable in their number and origin, pass to the I pyriformis, obturator internus, and gemelli muscles, anastomosing with the pudic, the internal circumflex, and the obturator arteries. (4) The anastomotic branch crosses the external rotator muscles either over or j under the great sciatic nerve, and contributes to the formation of the so-called crucial j anastomosis by anastomosing with the first perforating below, the termination ! of the internal circumflex internally, and the transverse branch of the external circumflex externally (fig. 369). (5) The articular branches pass beneath the external rotator muscles with the nerve to the quadratus femoris, and send several filaments into the posterior part of the capsule of the hip joint. !