ABDOMINAL PABIETES AND MUSCLES 425 [full effect upon the viscera, which have been pressed down by the previous descent jof the diaphragm. I The lower six ribs are slightly elevated by the diaphragm, and the hypochondria I somewhat dilated, this latter movement being due to the forward and outward I pressure of the depressed viscera. I Relations.—Above lie the pleura and pericardium, the heart and the lungs. Below are the peritoneum, the liver with its ligaments, the stomach, the spleen, j pancreas, kidneys, and suprarenal capsules. The dome-shaped upper convex surface Irises higher upon the right than the left side. On the right side, being raised by ■ the liver, it reaches to the level of the junction of the fifth costal cartilage with the j sternum, and on the left side only to the level of the junction of the sixth costal 'cartilage. Variations.—The oesophageal opening has been found in the right crus, instead of being jl surrounded by decussating fibres from both crura. The sternal portion of the muscle is not infrequently absent. j THE ABDOMINAL PABIETES I The superficial fascia covering the walls of the abdomen is continuous with that of the thorax and lower limbs, and is usually divided into two layers. The first layer is well provided with fat, which in many individuals attains to a considerable thickness, especially in the lower part of the anterior wall. The second or deep layer (Scarpa's fascia) is of a more membranous character and contains a quantity of elastic fibres. Near the groin it is separated from the more superficial layer by blood-vessels and lymphatic glands. Upon its deeper surface it is loosely connected with the deep fascia which invests the external oblique muscle ; but it is closely blended with the linea alba, the fibrous structures in front of the pubic bones, the fascia lata immediately below Poupart's ligament, and the crest of the ilium. Both layers are continued downwards upon the external genital organs. In the male they lose their fat and blend with the suspensory ligament of the penis, the fascia covering that organ, and the dartos and septum of the scrotum. In the female they are continuous with the superficial fascia of the vulva. i . THE ABDOMINAL MUSCLES The muscular portion of the abdominal wall forms a lozenge-shaped figure of which the vertical diagonal extends from the ensiform process to the symphysis pubis, while the transverse encircles the abdomen from tip to tip of the transverse processes of the third lumbar vertebra. The boundaries of this muscular wall are formed, above by the costal cartilages of the six lower ribs ; behind, by the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae; below, by the crests of the ilia and the pubes. More accurately, each lateral half may be looked upon as a four-sided figure of which the upper boundary slopes backwards and downwards; the lower, backwards and upwards; while the long anterior boundary and short posterior boundary are vertical and parallel. The