378 THE MUSCLES Structure.—Arising fleshy from the hone at the margin of the lesser sacro- sciatic foramen, the muscular fibres converge slightl}' and form a sheet which is curved upon itself so as to fit round the upper border and anterior aspect of the obturator internus tendon, with which, after a course of about two inches in length, it blends. Nerve-supply.—The first and second nerves of the sacral plexus by a small special branch which enters the muscle at the upper part of its anterior surface near its origin. The gemellus inferior—the lower of these twin muscles—is also triangular in shape, but is somewhat broader and stouter than its fellow. Origin.—(1) The upper part of the inner border of the tuber ischii; and (2 the lower half of the outer edge of the lesser sacro-sciatic notch. Insertion.—The lower border and anterior surface of the tendon of the obturatoi internus, about one inch from its attachment to the greater trochanter. Structure.—Its fibres, arising fleshy from the lower half of the outer border o the lesser sacro-sciatic notch, converge and form a sheet which wraps round th( lower part of the anterior surface of the tendon of the obturator internus. , Ths two gemelli therefore together form an envelope Avhich embraces the whole of th( tendon of the obturator internus after its emergence from the pelvis, with th( exception of a part of its posterior surface. Nerve-supply.—From the sacral plexus (through the fifth lumbar and first sacra nerves), by filaments from the special nerve to this muscle and the quadratiiij femoris, which enter the upper part of its anterior surface near its origin. ' Action.—The obturator internus with its two satellites, the gemelli, powerfuh; rotates the femur outwards. It should be observed that, although the fibres ar^ mostly directed backwards and downwards within the pelvis, the action of th muscle is really determined by the outward and slightly forward direction of th tendon outside the pelvis ; and the notch upon the bone plays the part of a pulle; in changing the direction of the force. Besides its action as an external rotator, the muscle will be able to assist abductio when the thigh is bent through a right angle. Relations.—The obturator internus in the pelvis is in contact externally wit the innominate bone and obturator membrane ; above, with the obturator artery an nerve ; internally, with the pelvic and obturator fasciae, the levator ani, the pelvi viscera, and the pudic vessels and nerve. Outside the pelvis, the tendon of the obturator internus, with the gemelli, is ij contact, in front with the capsule of the hip joint and the tendon of the obturate externus ; behind, with the gluteus maximus, great sacro-sciatic ligament, the sciati vessels and nerves ; above, with the pyriformis and the structures which come oi of the pelvis below it; below, with the quadratus femoris and a branch of the intern; circumflex artery. Variations.— One or other of the gemelli may be absent, but more ft-equently the upp(| one. An accessory slip to the obturator internus has been observed coming from the thii piece of the sacrum. 5. QUADEATUS FEMOEIS The quadratus femoris—named from its square shape and its insertion in' the femur—is a four-sided sheet. Origin.—The upper part of the outer border of the tuber ischii. Insertion.—The vertical ridge which begins just above the middle of the posterii intertrochanteric line of the femur, and is called the ' linea quadrati.' Structure.—Its fibres are fleshy and run parallel to one another almost hoi , zontally outAvards and slightly forwards.