ULNAB 565 merely overlapped above by the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, whilst the last inch i or so of the vessel is only covered as a rule by the skin and superficial and deep fascige. As the artery lies beneath the pronator teres, it is crossed from within outwards by the median nerve, the deep head of origin of the muscle usually separating the nerve from the artery. The lower part of the artery is crossed by the palmar cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. Behind.—For about an inch of its course the artery lies upon the brachialis anticus; but thence, as far as the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, upon the flexor profundus digitorum, which separates it above from the interosseous membrane and bone, and at the wrist from the pronator quadratus. The artery is bound down jto the flexor profunda digitorum by bands of fascias. To the outer side in the lower two-thirds of its course is the flexor sublimis digitorum. To the inner side in the lower two-thirds is the flexor carpi ulnaris, the guide to the vessel. The ulnar nerve, as it enters the forearm from behind the inner j condyle, is at first some distance from the artery, being separated from it in its I upper third by the flexor sublimis digitorum, but in its lower two-thirds is in close I contact with the vessel and on its ulnar side. Variations of the Ulnar Artery in the Forearm The principal variations of tlie ulnar artery in the forearm are: (A) It may arise from the brachial above the usual point of division or from the axillary, in which case it usually runs over the flexor muscles, but beneath the fascia, to reach its usual situation in the forearm. The recurrent arteries and the common interosseous are then usually derived from the trunk vessel from which the ulnar is given off. At times it runs beneath the muscles, or merely beneath the skin. (B) It may in some cases of high division of the brachial run beneath the fascia throughout its whole extent in the forearm. (C) In some cases of normal origin from the brachial it takes a superficial course in the forearm, being merely covered by the fascia, the recurrent branches and the common interosseous then arising from the radial. The branches of the ulnar artery in the forearm are :—1. The anterior ulnar recurrent. 2. The posterior ulnar recurrent. 3. The interosseous, or common interosseous: {a) anterior interosseous—(i) arteria comes nervi mediani, (ii) muscular, (iii) medullary, (iv) anterior communicating; (6) posterior interosseous —(i) interosseous recurrent, (ii) muscular, (iii) articular. 4. Muscular. 5. Nutrient. 6. Posterior ulnar carpal. 7. Anterior ulnar carpal. 1. The anterior ulnar recurrent is a small branch which leaves the inner iside of the ulnar artery soon after its origin, and, running upwards and inwards between the outer edge of the pronator teres and the brachialis anticus, anastomoses in front of the internal condyle with the anastomotica magna and a branch of the inferior profunda artery. It supplies branches to the muscles between which it runs. 2. The posterior ulnar recurrent, larger than the anterior ulnar recurrent, comes off from the inner side of the ulnar artery, either a little below the latter branch, or else as a common trunk with it, and, passing inwards between the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus digitorum, turns upwards to the back of the internal condyle, where it lies with the ulnar nerve beneath the two heads of origin of the flexor icarpi ulnaris. It supplies the contiguous muscles—the flexor carpi ulnaris, the palmaris longus, and the flexor sublimis and profundus digitorum—the elbow joint and the ulnar nerve, and anastomoses with the inferior profunda, with the anasto- motica magna, and with the interosseous recurrent, forming the so-called rete lolecrani. 3. The interosseous or common interosseous artery, is a short thick trunk half an inch or so in length, which comes off from the outer and back part of the ulnar about