TBIBUTABIES OF THE INFEBIOB VENA CAVA 671 in a specimen in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum. Each vein lies in front of its corresponding artery. The left vein crosses in front of the aorta, just below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. It is covered by the third portion of the duodenum, and receives the left spermatic, or the left ovarian in the female, and usually the left suprarenal, and sometimes the left phrenic. There are rudiments of valves in each vein where it joins the vena cava. Those on the right side, how- ever, are less well marked. (2) The suprarenal veins.—There is usually only one suprarenal vein on each side to return the blood brought to the suprarenal body by the three suprarenal arteries. On the right side the vein opens into the vena cava direct above the opening of the right renal vein. On the left side, it opens into the left renal. (3) The spermatic veins return the blood from the testicle. They begin by the confluence of small branches from the body of the testicle and epididymis, and as they proceed up the spermatic cord, in front of the spermatic artery and vas deferens, become dilated and plexiform, constituting the so-called pampiniform plexus. After passing through the external abdominal ring, the inguinal canal, and the internal abdominal ring, the plexus merges into two veins, which lie one on each side of the spermatic artery. Along with the artery the veins pass up beneath the peritoneum, and on the left side also beneath the sigmoid flexure of the colon, across the psoas muscle and ureter, to end as a single trunk, on the right side in the inferior vena cava, and on the left side in the left renal vein. There are commonly a number of imperfect valves in the spermatic plexus and a perfect pair at the termination of each spermatic vein. On the left side, however, the terminal valve may be wanting. (4) The ovarian veins begin as the pampiniform plexus near the ovary, between the layers of the broad ligament. This plexus communicates freely with the uterine plexus of veins, and with the plexus of veins which extends from the hilum of the ovary into the ovarian ligament (the ovarian bulb). After passing from between the layers of the broad ligament, the plexus unites to form at first two and then a single vessel, which accompanies the ovarian artery, following a similar course to the spermatic veins in the male. The right ovarian vein opens into the inferior vena cava; the left into the left renal. They usually contain imperfect valves in their plexiform part, and a perfect valve where they join the vena cava I and renal vein respectively. I (5) The lumbar veins.—There are usually four lumbar veins on each side corre- I sponding to the lumbar arteries. The main trunks of these veins, which lie beside the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, are formed by the union beneath the psoas of anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branches collect the blood from the front and lateral walls of the abdomen. They communicate in front with the internal mammary and epigastric veins, and then run backwards between the abdominal muscles in company with the anterior branches of the lumbar arteries to their confluence with the posterior branches. The posterior branches collect the blood from the loins and muscles of the back, and correspond to the posterior or dorsal division of the lumbar arteries. They receive communicating branches from the dorsal spinal plexus and from the vertebral canal, and pass forwards between the transverse processes to join the anterior branches. The trunk lumbar veins are connected beneath the psoas muscle by vertical branches, which cross in : front of the transverse processes. The last lumbar vein is variously joined below by a vertical branch to the common iliac, internal iliac, lateral sacral or ilio-lumbar vein, and the first lumbar vein is similarly connected above with the commence- men^fc of the vena azygos major on the right, and the vena azygos minor on the left sidte. The vertical vein thus formed is known as the ascending lumbar vein, and is regarded by some morphologists as the remains of the primitive or cardinal vein of the embryo. The trunk lumbar veins run up beneath the tendinous arches of