THE SMALL INTESTINE 1005 The lymphatics form a continuous series, which is divided into two sets—viz. hat of the mucous membrane, and that of the muscular coat. The lymph vessels ,f both sets form a copious plexus, and end in the mesenteric lacteals (fig. 574). ^ The nerves.—The small intestine is supphed by means of the superior Fig. 574.—Vessels of the Small Intestine. LACTEALS Veins mesenteric plexus, which is continuous with the lower part of the solar plexus. The branches follow the blood-vessels, and finally form tw^o plexuses : one (Auer- bach's) which lies between the muscular coats; and another (Meissner's) in the submucous coat. THE LAEGE INTESTINE The large intestine is that part of the alimentary canal which extends between the ileum and the anus. It is divided into the following parts :—Cfficum, ascending, transverse, and descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. It is so arranged las to surround the small intestine, making a circuit round the abdominal cavity from right to left (fig. 565). The cacum lies in the right iliac fossa ; thence the colon passes vertically upwards on the right side {ascending colon) until the liver is reached. Here it forms a more or less rectangular bend (hepatic flexure), and then passes transversely across the belly {transverse colon) below the stomach. It then reaches the splenic area, where it makes a second sharp bend (splenic flexure), 'and, passing vertically downwards on the left side {descending colon), reaches the left iliac fossa. At this point it forms the loop of the sigmoid flexure, and finally passes through the pelvis as the rectum (fig. 577). It is much larger in diameter than the small intestine, and has not the same general convoluted arrangement. Leaving out of consideration the dilated portion of the rectum, it is wider at the beginning than at the end. It varies in width at different parts,_from two and a haK to one and a quarter inches. The length from the root of the appendix or tip of the cfficum to the point where the meso-rectum ends is, in the male, about four feet eight inches ; and in the female, about four feet six inches. The extremes found in a number of cases ^yere, for both sexes respectively, six feet six inches, and three feet three inches. The large intestine, in all parts except the rectum, has a peculiar arrangement of its walls, which gives it a very different appearance to the small intestine. It I,