BELATION OF VISCEBA TO THE ABDOMINAL WALLS 1147 The pancreas.—This lies a little obliquely behind the stomach, crossing the ^orta, inferior cava, and spine about the junction of the first and second lumbar ertebrffi, or three inches above the umbilicus (fig. 587, page 1024, and fig. 720, )age 1178). A little lower is the third piece of the duodenum, reaching to within \Ai inch of the umbilicus. (Godlee.) Intestines—(A) Small.—The only part of these that can be localised at all ![efinitely is the duodenum and its junction with the jejunum and the ending of he ileum in the caecum. The first piece of the duodenum lies in the right hypo- |hondrium, usually near the gall-bladder {vide siqjra), reaching from the pylorus lipwards, backwards, and to the right. This is the most mobile of the three parts, 'he second, or descending, is in relation with the head of the pancreas, and eaches the right lumbar region, descending as low as the second or third lumbar ertebra. The third, or oblique, portion passes from the third lumbar vertebra )bliquely from right to left across the second, and, ascending, ends in the jejunum )ii the left side of the spine. This portion of the intestine being firmly secured Fig. 692.—Diagram showing Kelation of Kidney to Capsule. TRANSVERSE COLON DESCENDING COLON PERITONEU FATTY CAPSULE KIDNEY PERITONEAL CAVITY Diaphragmatic fascia CUT EDGE OF PERITONEUM Muscular fibre in ■ subperitoneal tissue — PANCREAS . \| Sup. mesenteric vein 1 ' DUODENUM LYMPHATIC GLAND Parietal muscles' Subperitoneal tissue Patty capsule Re7tal vessels embedded in subpe?i,toneal tissue LUMBAR VERTEBRA n place by fibres from the left crus of the diaphragm and the commencement )f the mesentery, accounts for rupture of the intestine usually occurring near this jspot. The jejunum and ileum he below the line of the transverse colon, covered )y the omentum, the jejunum being above and the ileum below. (B) Large intestine.—The caecum with its appendix, the ileo-caecal valve and termination of the ileum, occupy the right iliac fossa. The valve is in a line drawn lorizontally inwards from the anterior superior line for about three inches from hat point (Sheild). The ascending colon, covered by small intestine, hes deeply as it 3asses up over the kidney through the right lumbar region. The hepatic and splenic lexures lie deeply also in the hypochondriac regions, the splenic being much ligher than the hepatic, and behind the stomach, while the former is in contact with lie under surface of the liver. Between the two courses the transverse colon, in ilose contact with the great curvature of the stomach, and varying in position from 3ne, two, or three inches above the umbilicus, to one nearer or even below this point. The descending colon follows a similar course to the ascending; and the sigmoid