281 THE ANKLE JOINT xternal lateral facet, and overhanging the smus pedis. The middle fasciculus is a trong roundish bundle, which extends downwards and somewhat backwards from be anterior border of the external malleolus close to the attachment of the anterior isciculus, and from the outer surface of the malleolus, just in front of the apex, D a tubercle on the middle of the outer surface of the calcaneum. The posterior isciculus is almost horizontal; it is a strong, thick band attached at one end to tie posterior border of the malleolus, and slightly to the fossa on the internal arface ; and at the other end to the astragalus, behind the articular facet for the bula, as well as to a tubercle on the outer side of the groove for the flexor longtis .allucis. The middle fasciculus is covered by the tendons of the jjeronei longus nd hrevis ; and in extension, the posterior fasciculus is received into the pit on he inner surface of the external malleolus. Fig. 254.—Ligaments seen from the Back of the Ankle Joint. Posterior ligament of ankle joint Posterior part of the internal lateral ligament The lower part of the inter- osseous membrane seen be- tween the bones Transverse ligament of inferior tibio-fibular joint Posterior fasciculus of external lateral ligament Middle fasciculus of external lateral ligament The synovial membrane is very extensive. Besides lining the Hgaments of the nkle, it extends upwards between the tibia and fibula, forming a short cul-de-sac LS far as the interosseous ligament. Upon the anterior and posterior ligaments it is ^ery loose, and extends beyond the limits of the articulation. It is said to contain nore synovia than any other joint. The nerve-supply is from the internal saphenous, posterior tibial, and the Jxternal division of the anterior tibial. The arterial supply comes from the anterior tibial, the anterior peroneal, the Bxternal malleolar, the posterior tibial, and posterior peroneal. Movements.—This being a true hinge-joint, flexion and extension are the only movements of which it is capable, there being no lateral motion, except in extreme xtension, when the narrowest part of the astragalus is thrust forwards into the re.' .| leiiti 0