665 INTERNAL JUGULAR Tributaries.—(1) The inferior muscular, which are derived from the inferior obhque, inferior rectus, and external rectus; and (2) the lower posterior ciliary veins. 7. THE VEINS OF THE PHAEYNX AND LAKYNX The veins of the pharynx are arranged in the form of a plexus, between the , constrictor muscles and the pharyngeal or prevertebral fascia. The plexus I receives branches from the mucous membrane, from the soft palate, the Eustachian tube, and the anterior recti and longus colli muscles. Above, it communicates with the pterygoid plexus of veins; below, either with the lower end of the facial vein, I pr with the internal jugular vein. I The veins of the larynx end partly in the superior, and partly in the inferior thyroid veins. j 8. THE DEEP VEINS OF THE NECK The deep veins of the neck are the internal jugular vein, the vertebral vein, and the deep cervical vein and their respective tributaries. The Internal Jugular Vein The internal jugular vein begins at the jugular fossa, and is the continuation of the lateral sinus. It passes down the neck in company first with the internal carotid artery, and then with the common carotid artery to a spot a little external to the sterno-clavicular articulation, where it joins the subclavian to form the innominate vein. At its commencement in the larger, and posterior and external part of the jugular foramen, it is somewhat dilated, forming the so-called bulb or sinus of the internal jugular vein. At first it lies in front of the rectus capitis lateralis, and behind the internal carotid artery, from which it is separated by the hypoglossal, glosso-pharyngeal, and pneumogastric nerves, and by the carotid plexus of the sympathetic. But as it descends it passes gradually to the outer side of that I vessel, and retains this relation as far as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Thence it runs to its termination along the outer side of the common carotid artery, being contained in the same sheath with it and the pneumogastric nerve, but separated from these structures by a distinct septum. The vein generally overlaps the artery in front; hence the importance in tying the carotid of opening i the sheath well to the inner side of that vessel, in order to avoid the vein. About an inch above its termination it contains a pair of imperfect valves. Tributaries.—At the bulb or sinus the internal jugular vein receives the inferior : petrosal sinus; opposite the angle of the jaw veins from the pharyngeal plexus, ! and often a communicating branch from the external jugular vein ; opposite the bifurcation of the carotid it is joined by the facial, and a little lower down by the lingual and the superior thyroid vein, and at the level of the cricoid cartilage by I the middle thyroid vein. The inferior petrosal sinus is described with the other sinuses of the brain (page 660); the pharyngeal plexus with the veins of the pharynx (see above); I, and the facial vein with the superficial veins of the scalp and face (page 650). The lingual vein begins near the tip of the tongue, under the name of the i ranine. It lies at first close to the hypoglossal nerve and beneath the mucous , membrane covering the under surface of the tongue. It then passes backwards i across the hyo-glossus, the latter muscle intervening between it and the lingual artery. After receiving the sublingual vein and the dorsalis linguae veins which roughly correspond to their respective arteries, and the two small veins (venae comites) which frequently accompany the lingual artery beneath the hyo-glossus,