OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 928 and serve to keep these orifices open. Posteriorly they are connected by fibrous tissue to the nasal margin of the superior maxillaries. In this tissue are embedded several extremely thin and irregular cartilages named sesamoid, and above these commonly a pair still smaller, called accessory quadrate. ' The septal cartilage fills in the triangular interval of the bony septum. The anterior border is attached to the nasal bones at their junction below the crest, i Beyond it presents a shallow groove, the borders of which are at first continuous with the upper lateral cartilages, as already described. This groove becomes narrowed by the gradual approximation of its borders, which ultimately meet in a faint transverse ridge which terminates it below. Still lower, it dips for a short | distance between the inner plates of the lower lateral cartilages, beyond which these meet to form the tip of the nose. The posterior border is connected with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid,' whilst its inferior is attached to the vomer, which is often channelled like the ethmoid plate to receive it. Immediately in front it is attached to the nasal spine of the maxillae. Fig. 514.—Under View of the Nose, showing its Cartilages, etc. of ala The cartilage does not simply dip into the groove which is more or less marked on the upper surface of the nasal spine, but broadens out to obtain the widest possible, though somewhat lax, attachment to it. Viewed from below, it appears to embrace the spine. The border of its rounded angle in front is somewhat thickened before terminating in a thin smooth edge. It is extremely thin near the centre. The shape of the septal cartilage varies in relation to the extent of ossification in the bony septum, and even in the adult a strip of cartilage may extend for a varying distance backwards and upwards between the vomer and ethmoid, sometimes even reaching the body of the sphenoid bone. It may be here noted that the septum of the nose is almost always straight in children and in aboriginal skulls (eightyper cent.); but in Europeans it is deflected to one or other side in the proportion of three out of every four. Jacobsonian cartilages. — In the septal cartilage above the opening of Stenson's canal there is a small pouch which presents a minute opening below. This is the ] representative of the Jacobsonian organ. A strip of cartilage underneath this, ; firmly adherent, but distinct from the septal cartilage, is known as the Jacobsonian cartilage. . |