THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION 988 posterior portion of the left lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Behind, it rests upon the vertebral column, the left longus colli muscle, and prevertebral fascia. On its ri^ht side are placed the right carotid and right recurrent nerve; and on the left side the left inferior thyroid vessels, left carotid artery, left subclavian, and thoracic duct. The recurrent nerves pass upwards on each side to gain the interval between the trachea and oesophagus. The left nerve, as already described, at first lies in front of the tube, and the right at some little distance from it. In the thorax the oesophagus descends through the superior and posterior mediastina. In front are the following structures :—the lower part of the trachea with the commencement of the left bronchus, the transverse arch of the aorta, left carotid and left subclavian arteries. Below is the posterior surface of the pericardium. Behind, it is in relation with the vertebral column, longus colli muscle, the thoracic duct, the right intercostal vessels, the left lower azygos vein, and the lower portion of the thoracic aorta. Laterally it comes into contact with both pleural sacs and with the pneumo- gastric nerves. BeloAv the roots of lungs these form a plexus (the plexus gul^) surrounding the gullet; finally the left nerve gains the front, and the right nerve passes to the back of the tube. The vena azygos major ascends on the right side, and the aorta descends on the left. After death the gullet is somewhat flattened from before backwards, but it is more rounded during life. It is closed except during the passage of food, etc. Structure.—The wall of the oesophagus is composed of three coats—muscular, submucous, and mucous. It is surrounded with elastic cellular tissue, loosely con- necting it with the neighbouring structures, and freely permitting its distension. The muscular coat is thick, red, and consists of striped muscular fibres in its upper third or more. It is made up of two distinct layers. The longitudinal fibres commence as three flattened bands : a strong anterior arising from the ridge on the back of the cricoid cartilage (fig. 526), and two lateral bands which blend with the fibres of the pharynx. These all unite into a conti- nuous layer which passes below into the muscular coat of the stomach. Several accessory bands have been described, connected with the trachea, left bronchus, pericardium, and left pleura. The circular fibres are continuous above with the inferior constrictor, and below with the oblique fibres of the stomach ; they form a uniform layer which becomes somewhat obliquely disposed towards the middle of the gullet. The submucous coat loosely connects the inner mucous and outer muscular coats. It is the seat of numerous racemose glands whose ducts open on the surface of the mucous membrane. The mucous coat is thick, reddish above, paler below, and deeply folded longitu- dinally. It presents numerous papilla and contains racemose glands. It is lined by a stratified squamous epithelium. ^