THE SKELETON 116 Ossification.—The transformation of the sternum into bone is a slow andi irregular process. The pre-sternum (manubrium) has a mesial nucleus about the sixth month of intra-uterine life ; later, several smaller accessory centres may; appear. The mesosternum usually ossifies from seven centres. The second sternebra ossifies from a single median nucleus about the eighth month. Below this, three pairs of ossific nuclei appear, and they may remain long separate. Of these, two pairs for the third and fourth sternebrse are visible at birth. The pair for the fifth sternebra make their appearance towards the end of the first year. The various lateral centres unite in pairs, and at the sixth year the sternum consists of six sternebrae, the lowest (metasternum) being cartilaginous. Gradually the four pieces representing the mesosternum fuse with each other, and at twenty-five they form a single piece, but exhibit, even in advanced life, traces of their original separation. Fig. 119.—Two Stages in the Formation of the Cartilaginous Sternum. (After Enge.) A B The metasternum is always imperfectly ossified, and does not ankylose with the mesosternum till after middle life. The pre-sternum and mesosternum rarely fuse. The dates given above for the various nuclei are merely approximations, for they are extremely variable, not only in appearing, but in their number. The same remark applies also to the age at which the various segments ankylose ; hence the sternum affords very uncertain data as to age. Abnormalities of the Sternum.—The mode of development of the sternum as described above is of importance in connection with some deviations to which it i& occasionally subject. At an early period it consists of two lateral halves ; in some rare instances these have failed to unite, and thus give rise to the anomaly of a completely cleft sternum. The union of the two halves may occur in the region of the manubrium, but fail below this point; in some instances the upper and lower segments have duly coalesced with the opposite side, but union has failed in the middle segments. The clefts resulting from these failures of coalescence are in many instances so small as not to be of any moment, and not even recognised until the skeleton has been prepared. In a few individuals they have been so extensive as to allow the pulsation of the heart to be perceptible to the hand, and even to the eye, through the skin covering the defect in the bone. A common variation in the sternum is asymmetry of the costal cartilages. Instead of corresponding, the cartilages may articulate with the sternum in an alternating manner. The cause of this asymmetry is not very obvious.