130 THE SKELETON Arteries.—The blood-supply of the humerus is derived from the suprascapular, and the anterior and posterior circumflex arteries. Branches from these arteries enter the foramina which cluster around the circumference of the head and tuberosities. At the top of the bicipital groove there is a large nutrient foramen, which transmits a branch from the anterior circumflex artery. The nutrient artery of the shaft is derived from a muscular branch of the brachial; it enters the bone near the middle of the inner border immediately beloAV the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and is directed to the distal end. The lower extremity is nourished by numerous twigs derived from the anastomotic, the superior and inferior profunda, and the recurrent branches of the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries. Ossification.—The humerus ossifies from one primary and six secondary nuclei. The centre for the shaft appears about the eighth week of intra-uterine life, and extends very rapidly. At birth the bone presents two cartilaginous extremities, which ossify in the following manner :—A nucleus for the head appears early in the first year ; it is not infrequently present at birth (Spencer). The nucleus for the greater tuberosity appears in the third year. In the fifth year a centre may be deposited for the lesser tuberosity, but this is not constant. The three nuclei coalesce to form a disc of bone, which unites with the shaft about the twentieth year. The inferior extremity ossifies from four centres : the centre for the capitellum Fig. 130.—The Head of the Humerus at the Sixth Year. (In section.) THE CENTRE FOR THE HEAD APPEARS DURING appears in the third year, and those for the inner (ulnar) condyle, the trochlea^ and external (radial) condyle at the fifth, tenth, and fourteenth year respectively. The nuclei for the capitellum, trochlea, and radial condyle coalesce before uniting with the shaft, which they do in the seventeenth year. The ulnar condyle joins the shaft somewhat later. A study of the upper end of the humeral shaft before its union with the epiphysis is of interest in relation to what is known as the neck of the humerus. The term neck is applied to three parts of this bone. The anatomical neck is the constriction to which the capsular ligament is attached. This is accurately indicated by the constriction which lies internal to the tuberosities ; the upper extremity of the humeral shaft before its union with the epiphysis terminates in a low three-sided pyramid, the surfaces of which are separated from each other by ridges. The inner of these three surfaces underlies the head of the bone, and the two outer surfaces underlie the tuberosities. The axis of the inner, isolated portion forms with the shaft an angle of 130° ; it constitutes the morphological neck of the humerus, and is of the same nature as the neck of the femur. The surgical neck is an indefinite area below the tuberosities where the bone is liable to fracture. THE FIRST year: IT IS SOMETIMES PRESENT^- AT BIRTH THE CENTRE FOR THE GREATER TUBEROSITY — APPEARS IN THE THIRD YEAR