THE LABYNX 945 I The cricoid articular surface is oval, convex, and oblique, with its long axis passing from behind, forwards, and outwards. The opposed articular surface on the base of the arytenoid is also oval, but it is concave with its long axis passing from before backwards. It follows that the two surfaces never completely cover each other at any one time. The arytenoid rotates on a vertical axis near to and parallel with its inner jsurface, and it also glides forwards and inwards, or in an opposite direction. These movements are associated—the gliding forwards and inwards with the inward rotation, and the gliding outwards and backwards with the outward rotation. The Muscles.—The muscles are divisible into an extrinsic group, passing between ^the larynx and parts beyond ; and an intrinsic group, belonging entirely to the organ itself. j The extrinsic muscles are the sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, stylo- and palato- ipharyngei, and the inferior constrictors of the pharynx. It should be noted that the muscles which fix the hyoid bone, and also those which close the lower jaw, assist the action of the above mentioned. The intrinsic muscles.—The crieo-thyroid is attached below to the front and side of the cricoid cartilage, and above to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. The lower fibres, which are horizontal and often distinct, pass to the front border of its inferior cornu, and act by pulling the cricoid directly backwards, whilst the Fig. 529.—Scheme of Eima, showing Action of Crico-arytenoideus Posticus, which DRAWS THE ARYTENOID CARTILAGE FROM I TO II. (Modified from Stirling.) spreading fibres which form the rest of the muscle swing the cricoid between the prico-thyroid joints, pulling it upwards as well as backwards. Both portions of the muscle make tense the vocal cords, and are supplied by the external laryngeal lerve. It is overlapped laterally by the sterno-thyroid, having beneath it a small portion of the crico-thyroid membrane and some of the lower fibres of the ateral crico-arytenoid muscle. The central portion of the crico-thyroid membrane ippears in the angular interval between the two muscles. The crico-arytenoideus posticus arises from the quadrate surface situated on )ach side of the posterior median ridge of the cricoid cartilage. Its fibres rapidly jonverge to be inserted into the posterior portion of the outer angle (muscular process) of the arytenoid cartilage. The upper fibres are chiefly concerned in rotation of the arytenoid cartilage, Rrhilst the lower produce its gliding movement. It is a dilator of the rima glottidis. Some of the lowest fibres occasionally pass to the inferior cornu of the thyroid jartilage, and are known as the kerato-cricoideus or kerato-thyroideus. It is covered posteriorly by mucous membrane, and is supplied by the recurrent laryngeal nerve. A few of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus arise from the ridge which separates the two muscles. The crico-arytenoideus lateralis arises from the upper border of the cricoid 3P