THE SKELETON 40 In the riclge of bone between the fossa and the carotid canal there is a small fora- men, the tympanic canaliculus, for the tympanic branch of the giosso-pharyngeal nerve. On the inner wall of the fossa a similar minute foramen, the auricular canaliculus, permits the passage inwards of the auricular branch of the vagus nerve. Behind the fossa is the rough jugular surface, which receives the jugular process of the occipital. Firmly ankylosed to the inner surface of the tympanic plate is the styloid process, varying in length from one to five cm. At its base is the stylo- mastoid foramen, from which issues the facial nerve ; the stylo-mastoid artery enters the Fallopian canal through this opening. Kunning backwards from this foramen are two grooves ; the outer is the digastric groove, from which the digastric muscle arises. The inner is narrower and shallower; it lodges the occipital artery. Of the outer surface, the only part which appears externally is the mastoid process ; the rest is occupied by a recess known as the tympanum. The mastoid process is a nipple-shaped prominence of bone, formed partly by the squamosal, but mainly by the petrosal. Its upper limit is the supra-mastoid crest. Below the crest an irregular furrow crosses the surface of the process from the parietal notch downwards, to the middle of the meatus. This furrow (squamo-mastoid) is often dotted with holes, and represents the line of union of squamosal and petrosal. The mastoid process gives attachment to the sterno-mastoid, sjUenius cajntisy trachelo-mastoid, occipito-frontalis, and retrahens aurem muscles. The tympanum is hidden by the tympanic folate, which extends downwards from the Glaserian fissure to form the vaginal process. Anteriorly it extends forwards and ankyloses with the outer wall of the carotid canal. The Glaserian fissure separates it from the squamosal. This fissure transmits the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and lodges the slend^ process of the malleus. A narrow subdivision of this fissure, canal of Huguier, is traversed by the chorda tympani nerve. The tympanic plate forms the anterior, low^er, and part of the posterior walls of the external auditory meatus. It is limited posteriorly by the auricular fissure, through which the auricular twig of the vagus nerve issues. The external auditory meatus assumes the form of an elliptical bony tube. Its outer margin is rough and gives attachment to the cartilaginous portion of the pinna. Between the posterior edge of the meatus and the mastoid process is the auricular