THE ABTEBIES 514 by which it is separated from the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of th digastricus and the stylo-hyoid muscles, and the lingual vein. In this part of it course it lies successively on the middle constrictor of the pharynx and the geni( hyo-giossus muscle. In the third part of its course it ascends tortuously, usual] beneath the anterior margin of the hyo-glossus, to the under surface of the tongin Fig. 333.—Scheme of the Lingual Artery. Palato-glossus 11,11 m\\\ Descending palatine Palato-pharyngeus TONSIL Ascending palatine branch of facial Tonsillar branch of dorsalis linguce Tonsillar branch of facial Stylo-glossus Dorsalis linguce artery Middle constrictor HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE Facial artery Posterior belly of digastric and stylo-hyoid Siipra-hyoid branch SUP. LARYNGEAL N. Infra-hyoid branch Internal carotid artery Superior thiiroid Ranine artei G-enio-hyo- \ glossus mi le Artery of froenum j Hyo-glossu Sublingual o\ry Genio-hyoi | Anterior b(J- of digastr Submental j artery j artery i Common carotid artery and is thence continued to the tip of that structure lying between the lingua and the genio-hyo-glossus muscles. From the anterior edge of the hyo-glossus its termination, it is only covered by the mucous membrane of the under surfj This part of the vessel is sometimes called the ranine artery. of the tongue. Branches of the Lingual Artery The named branches of the lingual artery are:—(1) The hyoid; (2) the dors; linguae; (3) the sublingual; and (4) the ranine. (1) The hyoid, or supra-hyoid (fig. 833), is a small vessel which arises from e first part of the lingual, and courses along the upper border of the hyoid be ^ superficial to the hyo-glossus, but beneath the insertion of the posterior bell; )f the digastricus and stylo-hyoid. It anastomoses with its fellow of the oppoie side, and with the infra-hyoid, a branch of the superior thyroid artery, |d supplies the contiguous muscles. j (2) The dorsalis linguae (fig. 333) arises from the second portion of the lin^ il artery, usually under cover of the posterior edge of the hyo-glossus muscle. Et ascends to the back of the dorsum of the tongue, and, dividing into branc |s, supplies the mucous membrane on each side of the V formed by the circumva) jfce papillae. It also supplies the pillars of the fauces and the tonsil, where it ansp- moses with the other faucial and tonsillar arteries. Instead of a single arterjas above described, there may be several small vessels running directly to the pjts mentioned. The artery anastomoses in the mucous membrane by very small bran jes with the vessel of the opposite side; but the anastomosis is so minute that ^ one lingual artery is injected, the injection merely passes across -to the opp |te