BADIAL NEBVE 841 I (7) The musculo-spiral nerve is the largest branch of the brachial plexus. It * arises from the posterior cord, and contains fibres derived from the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves. It is placed at first behind the third stage of i the axillary artery; lower down it has a similar relation to the upper part of the \ brachial artery. It soon leaves the latter vessel and accompanies the superior profunda artery into the interval between the inner and outer heads of the triceps. Having followed the spiral groove around the humerus, it pierces the external inter- t muscular septum and runs downwards in the interval between the supinator longus I and the brachialis anticus muscles. A little above the bend of the elbow it termi- nates by dividing into the radial and the posterior interosseous nerves. Branches.—The musculo-spiral nerve gives off three cutaneous branches, one internal and two external, and supplies the following muscles : triceps, anconeus, brachialis anticus in part, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. {a) The internal cutaneous branch arises within the axilla, usually in common with the branch to the long head of the triceps. It crosses the tendon of the latissimus dorsi muscle and passes on to the back of the arm to supply a strip of integument extending nearly down to the elbow, and placed between the areas of distribution of the circumflex and intercosto-humeral nerves. {h) The external cutaneous branches are distinguished as upper and lower. The upper branch, much the smaller, pierces the deep fascia in the line of the external intermuscular septum, and is distributed to the skin over the lower part of the biceps muscle. The lower branch is of considerable size. It pierces the deep fascia a little below the upper branch, and runs on the supinator longus in; front of the external condyle of the humerus. It then inclines backwards and supplies the integument on the back of the forearm as far as the wrist. (c) A nerve is furnished to each of the three heads of the triceps. The nerve to the long head arises within the axilla. The nerves to the outer and inner heads arise as the nerve is traversing the spiral groove. A separate branch, the ulnar collateral of Krause, accompanies the ulnar nervje for some distance, and ends in the lower part of the inner head of the triceps. {d) Muscular branches.—The nerve to the anconeus arises in common with the nerve to the inner head of the triceps, and runs down in the fibres of the latter muscle towards the interval between the olecranon process and the external condyle, where it ends in the anconeus. In its course through the triceps it furnishes a number of fine filaments to that muscle. The nerves to the brachialis anticus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior arise in the interval between the first and two last named muscles. (e) The posterior interosseous nerve passes downwards in the interval between the brachialis anticus and the extensor carpi radialis longior, and, having given off a branch to supply the extensor carpi radialis brevior, it runs downwards and back- ■ wards through the substance of the supinator brevis, and enters the cellular interval between the superficial and deep layers of muscles at the back of the forearm. Having given off twigs to supply these muscles, it passes on to the interosseous . membrane at the lower third of the forearm, and passes under cover of the tendons ■ of the extensor communis digitorum to reach the back of the wrist, where it swells < into a gangiiform enlargement, from which twigs are given off to supply the carpal articulations. The muscles supplied by the posterior interosseous nerve are the ^ extensor carpi radialis brevior, the supinator brevis, the extensor communis i digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, the three extensor muscles of the thumb, and the extensor indicis. The supinator brevis receives two twigs, I one of which is given off before the nerve pierces the muscle, and the other while \ it is traversing the muscular substance. I (/) The radial nerve is somewhat smaller than the posterior interosseous, and I is a purely cutaneous nerve. It runs downwards under cover of the supinator longus.