I SUBCLAVIAN 539 |he longest of the three portions of the subclavian artery, and lies in a triangle—the ubclavian triangle—hounded by the sterno-mastoid, the omo-hyoid, and the clavicle. Relations.—In front it is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, platysma^ navicular branches of the descending portion of the cervical plexus of nerves ; interior layer of deep fascia which descends from the omo-hyoid to the clavicle ; lid the posterior layer of deep fascia which descends from the omo-hyoid to the rst rib and is prolonged inwards over the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve, etween the two layers of fascia is a variable amount of cellular tissue and fat, and mning in this is the suprascapular artery. The subclavian is crossed by'this :tery unless the arm is drawn well downwards. Hence one of the reasons )r depressing the shoulder, and thus avoiding the suprascapular artery, in the deration of ligaturing the subclavian. Close to the outer margin of the sterno- lastoid, the external jugular vein pierces the fascia, and crosses the subclavian ftery to open into the subclavian vein. As this vein lies between the two layers of ,scia, it receives on its external side the suprascapular, transverse cervical, and ther veins of the neck, which together form a plexus of large veins in front of the |tery. The nerve to the subclavius, and when present the accessory branch from [is nerve to the phrenic, also here cross in front of the artery. In very muscular ibjects the sterno-mastoid may extend further outwards along the clavicle than lual, and in such a case will form one of the coverings of the artery. Behind, the artery is in contact with the scalenus medius, and with the cord of e brachial plexus formed by theimionof the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerve, j Below, the artery rests in the posterior of the two grooves on the upper surface j the first rib. ! Above is the brachial plexus of nerves and the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid iuscle. The cord formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves is also above the tery, but on a somewhat anterior plane. It is close to the vessel, and has been istaken for the artery in the application of a ligature. As a rule there is no branch given off from the third portion of the subclavian, i; times, however, the suprascapular (fig. 329) or the posterior scapular artery may ise from the third portion of the subclavian, instead of from the thyroid axis and mi the transverse cervical respectively as here described. ! Chief Variations in the Subclavian Artery (A) The right subclavian artery may arise directly from the arch of the aorta, and 3n come off as the first, second, third or fourth branch of that vessel. When it ;|ses as the first branch, it takes the place usually occupied by the innominate; when it J'ses as the last branch, it courses behind the trachea and tt sophagus to gain the groove on 1) first rib. As the second or third branch of the aortic arch it is very rare ; in both i;tances it then runs behind the right common carotid. The explanation of the right f)clavian arising as the last branch of the arch of the aorta, is that the right aortic arch h remained pervious, whilst the normal root of the subclavian artery has become (iterated. An arteria aberrans, given off" from the right subclavian or from the superior lercostal, can generally be traced to the third thoracic vertebra behind the oesophagus, and ia number of such cases can be followed across the spine to anastomose with a branch of t thoracic aorta given off below the ductus arteriosus. It is the enlargement of this fl;istomosis—whicli is itself the remains of what was the primitive right dorsal aorta in ti embryo—that gives rise to the abnormality in question. The inferior laryngeal nerve ijsuch cases, in consequence of the right fourth arch which forms the first portion of tj subclavian being obliterated, follows a direct course to the larynx instead of winding I'jiirrently round the subclavian artery. ' (B) The right subclavian may arise higher or lower in the neck than usual, according f>i;he innominate divides above or below the normal situation. 1(C) It may perforate the scalenus anticus or pass in front of that muscle. |(D) It may ascend as high as an inch and a half aboA-e the clavicle, or remain below t] level of that bone. |(E) The third part of the artery may be covered by the trapezius or sterno-mastoid, or l^ja clavicular origin of the omo-hyoid. 1(F) The subclavian vein may accompany the artery behind the scalenus anticus.