557 AXILLARY The chief variations in the subscapular artery are :—(a) It may come off with the jsterior circumflex; (&) it may arise from a trmik common to several other of the 1 mches of the third part of the axillary artery and upper part of the brachial artery ; and its dorsal scapular branch may arise from the axillary direct. 2. The anterior circumflex, usually quite a small vessel, comes off from the ter side of the axillary artery, generally opposite the posterior circumflex. It isses beneath the coraco-brachialis and short and long heads of the biceps, winding imsversely round the front of the surgical neck of the humerus, across the bicipital joove, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex and acromial thoracic arteries, gives off the following small branches: {a) the bicipital or ascending, which runs I the bicipital groove to supply the long tendon of the biceps and the shoulder int; and (h) a pectoral or descending branch, which runs downwards along the jlsertion of the pectoralis major, and supplies the tendon of that muscle. The terior circumflex artery, in consequence of its being close to the bone, is some- nes difficult to secure in the operation for excision of the shoulder joint. Chief variations.—{a) It may be given off from the posterior circumflex ; or (6) from a i m common to it and several other vessels. (See Variations in the Axillary Artery, ge 553.) Fig. 348.—The Posterior Circumflex Artery. (From a dissection"by Mr. Horner in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.) Suprascapular artery SPINE OF SCAPULA | Infra-sp inatus ACROMIAL PROCESS Teres minor Superior prof unda artei j Posterior circumflex artery Deltoid, reflected ml -spinatus | Teres major | Dorsal scapular artery Branch of dorsal scapular artery NERVE TO TERES MINOR - - MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE Outer liead of triceps ' EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF MUSCULO- SPIRAL NERVE CoracO- braeliialis Long liead of triceps CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF CIRCUMFLEX NERVE 3. The posterior circumflex artery (fig. 348) arises from the hinder part of the xillary, just below the lov^er border of the subscapularis muscle. It passes hrough the quadrilateral space, bounded by the teres minor above, the latissimus brsi and teres major below, the humerus externally, and the long head of the riceps internally, and, winding round the back of the humerus beneath the deltoid, )reaks up under cover of that muscle into a leash of branches, which for the most