THE LABYNX 941 separates two broad and shallow depressions. To this ridge some of the longitudinal fibres of the cssophagus are attached, and the depressions give origin to the I posterior crico-arytenoid muscles. The anterior portion is narrow and rounded, and gives attachment in front to the crico-thyroid muscles, and more posteriorly to some fibres of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. Between these two halves of the ring, but nearer the lower border, is placed the oval surface (looking upwards and outwards) for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth and lined by mucous membrane. The superior border bounds the quadrate plate above, and then passes obliquely I downwards and forwards. An oval, convex, obliquely placed articular surface, upon i which moves the arytenoid cartilage, separates these two portions of the upper ! border. i The oblique half gives attachment to the crico-thyroid membrane, and, laterally I and external to this, to the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle. i The inferior border—horizontal, and often deeply notched at the sides—-is attached to the first ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. The arytenoid cartilages are irregular, three-sided pyramids, which articulate by their bases with the oblique facets on the superior border of the cricoid cartilage, and support upon their apices the cornicula laryngis. The space between them in certain animals has been likened to the mouth of a pitcher, and hence their name. Each cartilage presents three surfaces, divided by three borders, with a base, apex, and angies. The surfaces.—The posterior is concave, smooth, and gives attachment to the \ arytenoid muscle. The anterior is irregular and convex. It gives attachment by a small tubercle to the false vocal cord, and also to the thyro-arytenoid muscle. The internal is almost flat, smooth, and narrow, and covered by mucous membrane. The base is obliquely hollowed, and presents internally the facet for articulation with the cricoid cartilage. The angles.—The anterior is prolonged for the attachment of the true vocal cord. It is known as the vocal process, and with the aid of the laryngoscope is easily seen during life. The external or muscular is thick and blunt, and gives attachment in front to the lateral crico-arytenoid, and behind to the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. The internal is unimportant; it is tied to the corresponding cartilage and to the cricoid by a fibrous band which is known as the transverse or crico- arytenoid ligament. I The borders.—The two internal, which limit the narrow inner face, are nearly parallel and almost vertical; whilst the external slopes upwards, inwards, and backwards. The apex projects inwards and backwards, and supports the corniculum. The I cartilage here becomes fibrous in structure. ! The EPIGLOTTIS is a median leaf-like plate of yellow elastic cartilage attached by : a stalk inferiorly to the retiring angle of the thyroid cartilage below the median notch. When denuded of its mucous covering, it is seen to be pitted with numerous depressions for the lodgment of glands (fig. 530). Placed with its lingual surface above, and its stalk in front, it has been compared to an elongated saddle. It varies very considerably both in shape and inclination, its leaf-like portion being sometimes considerably curled upon itself. It is placed nearly vertically in the adult, but in children is frequently so much \ depressed that its posterior free surface is inclined below its anterior. Hence its