CABDIAC 647 is guarded by a double valve. It receives (c) the left marginal vein or veins, and branches from both ventricles, especially the left. The left marginal vein runs with the artery of that name over the surface of the left ventricle, along the left margin of the heart. It receives tributaries from the left ventricle, and terminates in the great coronary vein. (2) The posterior cardiac, middle cardiac, or posterior interventricular vein accompanies the posterior interventricular artery upwards, from the apex of the heart in the posterior interventricular groove. It ends in the coronary sinus, just before the termination of the latter in the right auricle. It receives tributaries from the posterior surface of both ventricles, and is guarded by a valve where it joins the coronary sinus. Two or three small veins (posterior cardiac, or smaller posterior cardiac) run upwards from the back of the left ventricle, and open into the coronary sinus by separate orifices guarded by valves. Fig. 384.—Scheme of the Coronary Veins. (3) The right auricular, right coronary, or small coronary vein, runs in the right auriculo-ventricular groove, and terminates in the coronary sinus just before the entrance of that sinus into the auricle. It is joined by the right marginal vein and by the preventricular or smaller anterior cardiac vein or veins. (4) The oblique vein—the greater part of which is often represented merely by a I delicate fibrous cord—runs across the back part of the left auricle, in the vestigial I fold of the pericardium to the coronary sinus. This vein, with the coronary sinus, I its dilated portion, represents what was the left duct of Cuvier and part of the i sinus venosus in the foetus. As stated at page 642, it is occasionally found pervious, i and may be greatly enlarged, and help to form the so-called left superior vena cava. I There is, as might be gathered from the consideration of its morphology, no valve : where the oblique vein is continued into the coronary sinus. The right marginal vein—sometimes called the anterior cardiac vein, or vein of Galen—runs over the right ventricle, along the right margin of the heart, and opens either into the right auricular vein or separately into the lower part of the right