202 THE ABTICULATIONS undergo ossification at their surfaces and often throughout their whole extent. (See figs. 196 and 203.) | Each disc is composed of two portions—a circumferential laminar, and a' central pulpy portion ; the former tightly surrounds and braces in the latter, and forms somewhat more than half the disc. The laminar portion consists of alter-1 nating layers of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage ; the component fibres of which'] are firmly connected with two vertebrae, and pass obliquely down and to the right in one layer, and down and to the left in the next, making an X-shaped arrange- ment of the alternate layers. A few of the superficial lamellje project beyond the edges of the bodies, their fibres being connected with the edges of the anterior and lateral surfaces ; and some do not completely surround the rest, but terminate at the intervertebral foramina, so that on horizontal section the circumferential portion is seen to be thinner posteriorly. The more central lamellae are incomplete, Fig. 201. -The Anterior Common Ligament of the Spine, the Stellate, and THE Superior Costo-transverse Ligaments. The interartievilar ligament TJtie superior or anterior costo-transverse ligaments The stellate ligament less firm, and not so distinct as the rest ; and as they near the pulp they gradually! assume its characters, becoming more fibro-cartilaginous and less fibrous, and have cartilage cells in their structure. The central portion is situated somewhat behind the centre of the disc, forming a ball of very elastic and tightly compressed material, which bulges freely when the confining pressure of the laminar portion is removed by either horizontal or vertical section. Thus, it has a constant tendency to spring out of its confinement in the direction of least resistance, and thus constitutes a pivot round which the bodies of the vertebrae can twist, tilt, or inchne. It is yellowish in colour, and is composed of a fine fibrous matrix containing cartilage cells and fluid in its meshes. Together with the most central laminae, it is separated from immediate contact with the bone by a thin plate of articular cartilage. The central pulp of the inter- vertebral substance is the persistent part of the notochord. The intervertebral substances vary in shape with the bodies of the vertebra