834 TRE NERVOUS SYSTEM the positions indicated by their names, the external cord being in contact with the outer side of the artery, the internal cord on the inner side, and the posterior cord behind the vessel. A little external to the outer border of the pectoralis minor, the plexus terminates by dividing into large nerves, which surround the third stage of the axillary artery. j The branches of the brachial plexus are classified into branches which arise j above the clavicle, and branches which are given off below that bone. The branches | which arise below the clavicle may be conveniently subdivided into short branches I which end in the axilla, and long branches which arise from the terminations of the three cords and are destined to supply the shoulder, arm, forearm, and hand. Branches given off above the Clavicle These are all muscular branches, and comprise the following nerves:—(1) Supra- | scapular ; (2) rhomboid; (3) posterior thoracic ; (4) communicating to the phrenic ; | nerves to (5) the subclavius, (6) scaleni, and (7) longus colli. j (1) The suprascapular nerve arises from the upper trunk of the plexus, and ; therefore contains fibres derived from the fifth and sixth, and in some cases from the ' fourth, cervical nerves. It runs downwards and outwards below the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and passes under cover of the trapezius to reach the supra- | scapular notch ; here it crosses the suprascapular artery, and takes a lower position than that vessel. It then passes through the suprascapular notch beneath the transverse ligament, and, after furnishing a twig to the shoulder joint, divides into a supraspinous and an infraspinous branch. The supraspinous branch inclines inwards and ends in the supraspinatus muscle. The infraspinous branch passes ; through the great scapular notch under cover of the spino-glenoid ligament, and i terminates in the infraspinatus muscle. ' (2) The nerve to the rhomboids arises from the fifth cervical nerve shortly after ; its exit from the intervertebral foramen. It arises in common with the upper root of the posterior thoracic nerve, and passes backwards and outwards through the fibres of | the scalenus medius. It then usually divides in a plexiform manner into several ; branches, the strongest of which passes below the levator anguli scapulae, while the ; others traverse the lowest division of that muscle and supply it with one or more twigs. In the cellular interval betAveen the levator and the rhomboideus minor, the twigs reunite to form one nerve, which passes to the deep surface of the two ' rhomboid muscles and supplies them. (8) The posterior thoracic nerve (external respiratory of Bell) arises, by three roots, from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. The upper two roots traverse the substance of the scalenus medius ; the root from the seventh passes in front of that muscle. Twigs are furnished to the superior portion of the serratus magnus by the upper two roots ; lower down they unite and are subsequently joined by the root from the seventh. The nerve now passes downwards behind the brachial plexus and the first stage of the axillary artery, and runs along the axillary surface of the serratus magnus, supplying twigs to each of the digitations of that muscle. (4) The communicating twig to the phrenic arises from the fifth nerve close to the point where the latter nerve receives the communicating tmg from the cervical plexus. (5) The nerve to the subclavius is a small twig which arises from the fifth nerve or from the upper trunk of the plexus. Its fibres are derived from the fifth or in some cases from the fourth cervical nerve through the communicating twig from the cervical plexus. It runs downwards in front of the third stage of the subclavian artery and, after giving off a communicating branch to the phrenic, pierces the costo- coracoid membrane, and enters the subclavius at the lower border of that muscle. Variety.—In rare cases the entire phrenic nerve may pass via, the nerve to the subclavius ; in front of the third stage of the subclavian artery. i