390 THE MUSCLES the short arm of the lever upon which the tendon acts, and the obliquity of i insertion. On account of the direction of the femur, which is downwards and inwards, t tendency of the quadriceps is to draw the patella outwards at the same time upwards. This is in some degree counteracted by the position and direction of 11 vastus intemus. The great mass of the fibres of this part of the quadriceps arii in the lower part of the thigh, and are directed so transversely outwards towai! the inner border of the patella, that when they contract they tend to draw 11 patella inwards as well as upwards, and so the combined result and action of t> various divisions of the quadriceps is to draw the patella more directly upwarc If it were not for this arrangement, the contraction of the quadriceps would ha a strong tendency to produce outward dislocation of the knee-cap. Relations of vastus externus, crureus, and vastus internus.—In front He t) fascia lata, tensor vaginse femoris, rectus femoris, and sartorius. To the inner si ) lie the femoral vessels and anterior crural nerve. On the outer side aretheglutej minimus and maximus. Behind are the biceps on the outer side of the femur, a the adductor longus and magnus on the inner side. Variations.—These are few in number. An accessory head to the rectus from the anter superior spine of the ilium has been described, and occasionally the outer head is abseii; THE DEEP FASCIA OF THE LEG AND ANNULAE LIGAMENTS The deep fascia of the leg is continuous above with the fascia lata of the thi and receives important additions from the tendons of the biceps, sartorius, graci and semi-tendinosus. It is also attached to the lower part of the outer 8 inner tuberosities of the tibia and to the head of the fibula. At the back of li knee it is strengthened by transverse fibres which serve to bind together ' muscles which form the boundaries of the popliteal space ; the external saphem g vein also perforates it about the centre of the space. It is very thick and stn a at the upper and outer part of the front of the leg; but behind, where it cov s the muscles of the calf, the fascia becomes much thinner. The internal surf € of the tibia is not covered by this fascia, which blends with the periostela covering its anterior and inner borders throughout their whole length. It is sic attached to the borders of the fibula by two strong intermuscular septa which fc the anterior and posterior walls of a compartment containing the long and sb peronei. In the lower third of the leg it is attached to the borders of the s cutaneous surface of the fibula. In the neighbourhood of the ankle the deep faf is thickened by the addition of numerous transverse fibres, and forms the anni ligaments. The anterior annular ligament (fig. 298) consists of two parts, an upper \ a lower. The iqoper part is a strong band of transverse fibres just above the ar joint, which extends from the anterior border of the tibia to the anterior borde the subcutaneous surface of the fibula. Behind it there is a separate sync sheath for the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The lower part of the ante, annular ligament arises from the upper surface and outer border of the g]j» process of the calcaneum in two bands, a superficial and a deep, which, pas^ i transversely inwards, unite after a course of about an inch, and thus form a If in which are contained the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and 1 peroneus tertius, together with part of the origin of the extensor brevis digitor iji From the inner extremity of this loop two bands of fibres of varying distinctip proceed: one passes upwards and inwards to join with the front border of |i internal malleolus; the other, which is usually the weaker, more directly inwf over the scaphoid bone to join wdth the inner border of the plantar fascia. Bern