258 THE ABTICULATIONS gets its freedom of motion at the carpo-metacarpal joint; the fingers get theirs at the metacarpo-phalangeal, but they have not so much freedom as the thuml enjoys. 11. THE INTEEPHALANGEAL ABTICULATIONS Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglyvms. The ligaments which unite the phalanges of the thumb and of the fingers are Glenoid. Lateral. The glenoid ligament (fig. 236), sometimes called the sesamoid body, is verj firmly connected with the base of the distal bone, and loosely, by means of fibro j areolar tissue, with the head of the proximal one. It blends with the latera, ligaments at the sides, and over it pass the flexor tendons. Occasionally a sesamoid bone is developed in the cartilage of the interphalangeal joint of the thumb. i The lateral ligaments (figs. 235 and 236) are strong bands which are attacheCj to the rough depressions on the sides of the upper phalanx, and to the projecting; lateral margins of the lower phalanx of each joint. They are tense in everi position, and entirely prevent any lateral motion ; they are connected posteriorlr with the expansion of the extensor tendon. Posteriorly (fig. 236) the joint is covered in by the deep surface of the extenso: tendon, and a little fibro-areolar tissue extends from the tendon, and thickens thr' posterior portion of the synovial sac, and completes the capsule. j The synovial membrane is loose and ample, and extends upwards a little waj along the shaft of the proximal bone. The arteries and nerves come from their respective digital branches. ' The movements are limited to flexion and extension. Flexion is more free, an(' can be continued till one bone is at right angles with the other, and is most fre j at the junction of the first and second bones ; the second phalanx can be flexed o]! the first through 110° to 115° when the latter is not flexed. The greater freedom o| flexion is due to the greater extent of the articular surface in front of the heads oj the proximal bones, and to the direction of the fibres of the lateral ligaments, whic] pass a little forwards to their insertion into the distal bone. J THE ARTICULATIONS OF TEE LOWER LIMB The articulations of the lower limb are the following :— 1. The hip joint. 2. The knee joint. 3. The tibio-fibular union. 4. The ankle joint. 5. The tarsal joints. 6. The tarso-metatarsal joints. 7. The intermetatarsal joints. 8. The metatarso-phalangeal joints. 9. The interphalangeal joints. lilld iitii; k