85 THE OBBITS margin of the fissure presents near the middle a small tubercle, from which one head of the external rectus muscle arises. Between the outer wall and the floor, . near the apex, is the spheno-maxillary fissure, which allows the superior maxillary nerve to enter the infraorbital groove from the spheno-maxillary fossa. At the anterior margin of the fissure, the sphenoidal wing occasionally articulates with the maxilla, but frequently it is excluded by the malar. In front of the anterior extremity of this fissure is the orbital orifice of the malar canal. Near the outer extremity of the sphenoidal fissure a few small foramina may be seen, especially in old skulls, which allow branches of the middle meningeal artery to creep into the orbit. A vertical fissure, the spheno-malar, traverses the outer wall. It contains a very small foramen (the spheno-malar), which allows the temporal branch of the orbital nerve to escape from the orbit. This foramen is sometimes confined to the malar bone. The inner wall, narrow and straight, is formed by the lachrymal, os planum of the ethmoid, and a part of the body of the sphenoid. The ethmoid section of 'the transverse suture contains the orifices of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal Fig. 90.—The Inner Wall of the Orbit. canals : the former transmits the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal artery ; the latter the posterior ethmoidal artery. Anteriorly is the lachrymal groove, and behind this the crest which gives origin to the tensor tarsi. This wall has three vertical sutures : one between the nasal process of the maxilla and the lachrymal, the ethmo-lachrymal, and one between the os planum and body of the sphenoid. Occasionally the sphenoidal turbinal bone appears in the orbit between the os planum of the ethmoid and the body of the sphenoid (fig. 67). The orbit communicates with the cranial cavity by the optic foramen and sphenoidal fissure; with the nasal fossa by means of the lachrymal duct ; with the zygomatic and spheno-maxillary fossae by way of the spheno-maxillary fissure. In addition to these large openings, the orbit has six other foramina— the infra- orbital, malar, spheno-malar, anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals, and the anterior dental canal—opening into it or leading from it. In old skulls the frontal sinuses occasionally extend into that portion of the horizontal plate of the frontal bone which forms the roof of the orbit.