THE SKELETON 64 pre*palatine. They arise about the eighth week of embryonic life, and fuse very rapidly. {a) The pre-maxillary nucleus gives rise to that portion of the bone which lodges the incisor teeth. It sends a narrow process upwards which forms part of the outer boundary of the anterior narial aperture. On the palatine aspect it furnishes a spiculum which surrounds the anterior and mesial aspect of Stenson's canal. The posterior limit is indicated up to the end of the first dentition by the maxillo-premaxillary suture. The greater part of this centre is formed in membrane, but the inner part subsequently invades the ethmo-vomerine cartilage. {h) The maxillary nucleus forms the nasal process, and the greater part of the body of the maxilla. (c) The malar centre gives origin to that portion of the bone lying external to the infraorbital groove. (d) The pre-palatine centre gives rise to the nasal surface of the maxilla and the palatine process posterior to Stenson's canal. This portion is in shape similar to the palate bone. THE PALATE BONE The palate bone is rectangular in shape, and wedged between the maxilla and the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid. It has a horizontal and a vertical plate, a tuberosity, and two processes. The horizontal plate is smaller than the vertical; it is quadrilateral in shape. The upper surface forms the floor of the nasal fossa ; the inferior surface completes the hard palate posteriorly, and presents near its posterior border a transverse ridge, which gives attachment to the tensor ijcdati muscle. The anterior border is rough for articulation with the palatine process of the maxilla. The posterior border is free, curved, and sharp; it gives attachment to the soft palate. The inner border is broad, and rough for articulation with its fellow. When the palate bones are in apposition, these borders form a ridge continuing the crest formed by the palatine processes of the maxillae ; this crest receives the inferior border of the vomer. The posterior extremity of the crest forms the posterior nasal spine, from which the azygos uvulce arises. The vertical plate is thin ; of its two surfaces, the outer is rough for articula- tion with the maxilla, except a small portion near the middle close to the anterior border where it looks into the antrum, and a small triangular surface at the upper end where it forms part of the spheno-maxillary fossa. Towards the posterior border there is a vertical groove, which forms with the maxilla the posterior palatine canal; it transmits the descending palatine nerves and vessels. The canal may be more or less complete in the palate bone. The internal surface has two transverse ridges separating three shallow depressions. Of these depressions the lower forms part of the inferior meatus of the nose, and the limiting ridge or crest articulates Avith the inferior turbinal. Above this is the depression for part of the middle meatus ; the ridge above is for the second turbinal. The upper groove is narrower and deeper than the lower two, and forms a large part of the superior meatus. The ridges are known as the turbinated crests. The borders of the vertical plate are terminated by irregular prominences, which enter into complex union with surrounding bones. The posterior border is vertical, and comes into relation with the anterior border of the internal pterygoid process; below, it terminates in a prominent tuberosity. This presents three grooves or flutes : the inner receives the internal pterygoid, the outer the external pterygoid process, while the middle groove com- pletes the pterygoid fossa, and affords attachment to a few fibres of the internal 'pterygoid muscle; the superior constrictor of the ptharynx also arises from this process. The tuberosity is tunnelled by canals : to the nasal side are the accessory