THE LYMPHATICS 692 6. The lymphatics of the pharynx run along the course of the pharyngeal arteries and enter the upper set of deep cervical glands. Those from the upper part of the pharynx pass through the post-pharyngeal gland. The lymphatics of the tonsil open into the submaxillary glands near the angle of the jaw. 7. The lymphatics of tha larynx join the deep cervical glands. Those above the glottis pierce the thyro-hyoid membrane, and end in the upper set of the deep cervical glands ; those below the glottis perforate the crico-thyroid membrane, and, after passing through one or more small laryng^eal glands at the lower part of the larynx on its anterior or lateral aspect, enter the lower set of the deep cervical glands. 8. The lymphatics of the upper part of the oesophagus and trachea join the lower glands of the deep cervical chain. 9. The lymphatics of the thyroid body accompany the thyroid arteries, and end in part in the upper and in part in the lower glands of the deep cervical chain. B. The Deep Lymphatic Glands of the Head and Neck 1. The deep lymphatic glands of the head are few in number. They are the lingual, the internal maxillary, and the post-pharyngeal. (1) The lingual, two to four in number, are situated on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus muscles. They receive lymphatics from the upper surface and posterior part of the substance of the tongue. Their efferent vessels terminate in the superior glands of the deep cervical chain. (2) The internal maxillary or deep facial glands, three to six in number, are situated by the side of the pharynx immediately behind the buccinator muscle. They receive the lymphatics from the orbit, the nose, the temporal and spheno- maxillary fossse, the upper jaw, the palate, and the pharynx. Their efferent vessels join the superior glands of the deep cervical chain. (3) The post-pharyngeal gland is situated behind the pharynx on the rectus capitis anticus major near the base of the skull. It receives lymphatics from the upper part of the pharynx, from the nose, and from the deep prevertebral muscles. 2. The deep lymphatic glands of the neck are divided into the upper and the lower. The upper set extend along the course of the internal jugular vein from the base of the skull to about the level of the thyroid cartilage. They receive the lymphatics from the interior of the cranium above ; the lymphatics from the deep muscles of the upper part of the neck behind ; and the lymphatics from the internal maxillary glands, the posterior half of the tongue, the middle portion of the pharynx, the upper part of the larynx, the upper part of the thyroid body, and some of the efferent vessels from the submaxillary lymphatic glands in front and internally. Their efferent vessels pass downwards to the lower deep cervical glands. The lower deep cervical glands follow the course of the internal jugular vein from the thyroid cartilage to near the clavicle. They receive the lymphatics from the lower part of the neck, the efferent vessels from the superior set of deep cervical glands, the lymphatics from the lower part of the larynx, the lower part of the thyroid body, the upper part of the trachea and oesophagus, and the efferent vessels from the superficial cervical glands. Their efferent vessels end in the jugular lymphatic trunk, which unites with the subclavian lymphatic trunk, on the right side to form the right lymphatic duct, and on the left side to end in the thoracic duct. The right jugular trunk may also receive the lymphatics coming from the right half of the superior and anterior mediastina. The right lymphatic duct.—The right lymphatic duct is a short vessel from half to three-quarters of an inch long. It receives the lymphatics from the right side of the head and neck, from the right upper extremity, most of the lymphatics