68 THE SKELETON lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic, transverse facial, and deep temporal arteries. The muscles connected with it are : — Zygomaticns major. Zygomaticns minor. Masseter. Ossification.—The malar is a membrane-bone, and arises from two and occa- sionally three centres, which appear in the eighth week of embryonic hfe, and grow with astonishing rapidity: the bone quickly attains a relatively large size. Occasionally the two primary nuclei fail to coalesce, and the bone is represented in the adult by two portions separated by a horizontal suture. Such bipartite malars have been observed in skulls obtained from at least a dozen different races of men. Bipartite malars have been seen with the suture vertical. That the bone may arise from three centres is shown by the fact that tripartite malars have been observed. At birth the maxillary process reaches as far forwards as the outer border of' the infraorbital canal; subsequently it may send a process over the canal. THE APPENDICULAE ELEMENTS OF THE SKULL The bones which form this group are the mandible (lower jaw), malleus, incus, stapes, hyoid, the styloid process of the temporal bone, and the internal pterygoid process of the sphenoid. THE MANDIBLE OR LOWER JAW The mandible (loiocr jaw or inferior maxilla) is in shape like a horseshoe ; it consists of a horizontal portion or body, and two vertical portions or rami. The body consists of a right and a left half, meeting in the middle line to form the symphysis. Each half presents two surfaces and two borders. The external surface is smooth and generally convex, and presents the following points of interest:—The symphysis ends inferiorly in a triangular surface which forms the chin. Near the symphysis is the incisive fossa, from which the levator menti arises ; external to this is the mental foramen through which the mental nerve and artery issue. This foramen is in a line with the second bicuspid tooth. Extending backwards and upwards from the mental protuberance, so as to become continuous with the anterior border of the coronoid process, is the external oblique line ; along its upper border the depressor lahii inferior is and dejjressor angtoli oris arise ; the 2'^^(^iysma is attached to its lower edge. The internal surface presents, at a point corresponding to the symphysis, two pairs of genial tubercles. The upper pair give origin to the genio-hyo-glossi, and the lower pair afford insertion to the genio-hijoid muscles. The tubercles occasionally form a single, median, irregularly shaped eminence. By the side of the genial tubercles there is a shallow smooth depression, the subling-ual fossa ; below this is the digastric fossa for the insertion of the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. Posterior to the genial tubercles, the internal oblique line (mylo-hyoid ridge) commences and extends backwards, becoming more and more prominent as it approaches the alveolar border. The mylo-hyoid muscle is inserted along the whole