1092 THE FEMALE BEPBODUCTIVE OBGANS crosses the common iliac artery, and is conducted into the broad ligament by the ligamentum infundibulo-pelvicum (page 1086), which extends to the outer end of the oviduct. It breaks up into two divisions : (1) The kcbal, which runs along the lower border of the oviduct where the peritoneal layers of the tube separate, and sends numerous branches to it; and (2) the ovarian proper, a large serpentine vessel which gives off many large branches into the hilum of the gland, and tber passes to the angle of the uterus, where it ends by anastomosing with the uterine! and funicular arteries. j The ovarian veins, very largely developed about the hilum of the ovary | appear as a plexus in the broad ligament, and, reaching the margin of the plexus j assume a pampiniform arrangement around the artery. The right ends in thd vena cava, the left in the renal vein. | The funicular artery is an offset of the vesical. It joins the round ligameni at the internal ring, and divides into ascending and descending branches, th(' former running backwards in the substance of the ligament as far as the angL of the uterus, where it communicates with the ovarian and uterine ; the latte i passing with the ligament through the inguinal canal into the labium, theri anastomosing with the external pudic. It is accompanied by its vein. The lymphatics (fig. 643) of the uterus and Fallopian tubes form plexuses inth mucous membrane, in the muscular walls, and beneath the peritoneum. Those of th ovary originate in the perifollicular tissue around the Graafian vesicles, and escape at the hilum. The efferent vessels from these three organs may be divided inti three groups with intercommunicating territories. (1) The first, including those o the body of the uterus, those of the ovary, and those of the Fallopian tube, unite b; the side of the ovarian vessels and run with the veins to terminate in the prevertebra, ganglia in front of the aorta and vena cava ; (2) the second, those of the cervix uter: form two trunks which run along the base of the broad ligament with th uterine vein to end in the pelvic glands which lie beneath the bifurcation of th iliac artery ; (3) the third, those of the round ligament, follow this structure an( end in the inguinal or lower iliac glands. Here as elsewhere the lymphatics ar collateral with the veins. The nerves of the uterus are derived from the third and fourth sacral, the hype I gastric plexus of the sympathetic, and from the renal plexus, which also supplie the ovaries and oviduct. i DEVELOPMENT OF THE GENITO-UBINABY OBGANS I There is at first a period in the growth of the embryo during which there is no indica jl tion of any provision either for the generative or for the urinary function. A little late i I the rudiments of a genito-urinary apparatus are laid down, but there is as yet no appeai jl ance of sexual differentiation. Finally, a third stage in the formative process is occupie |l by the evolution of the organs characteristic of the masculine or feminine type, and th I completion of the glandular and other structures which provide for the secretion, storage || and ultimate expulsion of the urine from the body. It will be seen that in the course c'l these developmental changes certain of the structures concerned appear and assume theij permanent characters gradually and without alteration of plan; others, originally employe; for purposes unconnected with the genito-urinary system, become adapted to take their plac ! in this section of the economy; others belonging to the system from the first are brouglj into a special condition of functional activity only to undergo conversion to a different us later on; while others again may, according to the sex assumed b^^ the foetus, either dwindli into useless relics without ever taking any share in the work of the body, or may becomij elaborated into important and efficient parts of the reproductive organism. The earliest appearance is that of a tube called the Wolffian duct, which opens b its hinder extremity into a cloaca or common outlet for the intestinal and urinarf passages. From the fore part of this duct is devdoped a temporary organ, thj pronephros, or head-kidney, in the form of vascular glomeruli. Behind this soon appear j number of tubes, which open at right angles into the mid portion of the duct, and constitutf