352 THE MUSCLES | j The outer division, or thenar fascia, is that portion of the palmar fascia which covers the ball of the thumb. It is connected above with the anterior annular ligament, the tendon of the palmaris longus, and an aponeurosis from the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. After covering the short muscles of the thumb, it is continuous below with the ligamentum vaginale of the flexor longus pollicis tendon. The inner division, or hypothenar fascia, is of a triangular shape, the base being above and the apex below. Arising from the anterior annular ^ ligament and the deep fascia of the forearm at the inner side of the wrist, it ^ invests the short palmar muscles peculiar to the little finger, and terminates upon u the ulnar border of the hand close to the fifth metacarpo-phalangeal joint. It is covered above by the palmaris brevis. A deep layer of fascia covers the front of the interossei muscles, and is attached i by thin longitudinal septa to the posterior surface of the central part of the palmai i fascia. ! The ligamenta vaginalia are strong bands of transverse fibres which art! attached chiefly to the borders of the first and second phalanges, and serve tc ^ bind in their place the long flexor tendons. Opposite the joints the ligament^l are thin, and composed chiefly of obliquely decussating fibres. | The sheaths of the flexor tendons, or thecse as they are called, are blind tubeJ ] of synovial membrane which invest the back of the ligamenta vaginalia and th(| front of the three phalanges and the interphalangeal joints. They extend fronj the metacarpo-phalangeal joint to the middle of the last phalanx; and at th(i ; extremities of the tube the synovial membrane is reflected upon the surface of th(j flexor tendons. Small folds and cords containing connective tissue and blood: i vessels, and invested by the synovial membrane, stretch across the intervening space. These are called vincula accessoria (fig. 279). One set of these, tb ligamenta brevia, are of triangular shape, and pass directly forwards from thi; front of the lower part of the first and second phalanges to the back of thj . overlying tendons ; while the other set—which are called the ligamenta longa- , are small cords running downwards and somewhat forwards from the phalange to the tendons, at a higher level than the ligamenta brevia. The compartmeu! i of the palmar bursa belonging to the flexor longus pollicis tendon is continuoui with the theca of the thumb. The theca also of the little finger is close to, an . frequently in communication with, the lower part of the great palmar bursa upo: its ulnar side (fig. 274). MUSCLES OF THE HAND The muscles of the hand proper consist:—first, of a superficial one, which lie upon the palmar fascia ; and, secondly, of a deeper set, which may be divided into central group belonging to the fingers generally, and two other groups, which ai associated with the thumb on the radial, and the little finger on the ulnar side c the palm. Superficial Muscle of the Hand PALMAEIS BREVIS The palmaris brevis (fig. 280)—named from its position in the palm of tt hand, and its small size—is a small quadrilateral sheet. Origin.—(1) The front of the lower part of the anterior annular ligament aboi