THE SKELETON 60 Articulations.—The nasal bone articulates with its fellow, the frontal, maxilla, and ethmoid. Blood-supply.—Twigs to this bone are furnished by the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, the frontal, the angular, and the anterior ethmoidal arteries. Ossification.—Each nasal bone is developed from a single earthy nucleus in the Fig. 70.—The Left Nasal Bone. superior border median border outer border inferior border membrane overlying the fronto-nasal cartilage. The nucleus is easily seen in the eighth ^veek. The bone by its pressure soon produces absorption of the underlying cartilage. At birth tlie nasal bones are nearly as wide as they are long, whereas in the adult the length of the bones is three times greater than the width. THE MAXILLA The maxillffi are two hollow irregular cuboidal bones with two prominent processes. They form a large portion of the facial skeleton. This bone is occupied by a large cavity, the antrum. The body presents four surfaces. Of these the facial surface looks forwards and outwards and presents the following points of interest :—The socket for the canine tooth causes a low elevation, the canine eminence, having to its inner side the incisive fossa, from which the dejrressor alcd nasi arises. On the outer side of the eminence is the canine fossa, which gives origin to the levator angnU oris. Above this fossa is the infraorbital foramen, through which the terminal branches of the infra- orbital nerve and artery emerge. From the ridge above this foramen the levator lab a supcrioris arises. A ridge of bone extending upwards from the socket of the second molar tooth separates the facial from the zygomatic surface. Near the middle of the zygomatic surface are the orifices of the canals for the posterior dental nerves and vessels. The posterior inferior angle of this surface is termed the tuberosity; from it a few fibres of the internal pterygoid muscle arise. This tuberosity is most prominent after eruption of the wdsdom tooth; the rough surface along its inner border is for the tuberosity of the palate bone ; the smooth surface immediately above forms the anterior boundary of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters into the formation of the descending palatine canal. The orbital surface is irregularly triangular and forms the floor of the orbit. Anteriorly it is rounded and forms part of the circumference of the orbit; externally it is rough for suture with the malar bone ; the rough surface ends in a backwardly projecting spine which occasionally joins the sphenoid and forms the anterior limit of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The posterior margin, smooth and rounded, forms the inferior limit of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The internal border is nearly straight ; quite at the posterior part is a gap for the orbital process of the palate bone ; anteriorly it articulates with the os planum of the ethmoid; beyond this it receives the lachrymal bone, and in the anterior angle it is smooth and MEDIAN BORDER GROOVE FOR NASAL NERVE