BICEPS FEMORISSEMI-TENDINOSUS 385 nd the external lateral ligament is a bursa. From the borders of the tendon at lis point a thinner aponeurosis is given off to the outer tuberosity of the tibia in I'ont and the deep fascia of the leg behind. Nerve-supply.—From the first, second and third nerves of the sacral plexus by jie great sciatic nerve which sends branches to the anterior and inner surfaces of 16 muscle about the middle of the thigh. The short head of the biceps receives Is supply from the external popliteal nerve. Action.—To extend the hip and flex the knee. Its shorter head flexes the iiiee only. When the knee is flexed, both heads will unite in rotating the leg itwards. When the- knee is extended, the long head will have a slight influence ii rotating the hip outwards. Acting from below, the long head will assist in idsing the body from the stooping position. Relations.—Behind, the plantaris, the outer head of the gastrocnemius, gluteus. laximus, fascia lata, and the small sciatic nerve. In front, the tendon of the imi-membranosus, the adductor niagnus, and the great sciatic nerve. Upon its. iner border lie the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and the external popliteal 3rve. Beneath the lower tendon is a bursa which separates it from the external teral ligament of the knee joint. Variations.—The short head of the biceps may be absent. Accessory heads may be 'irived from the tuber ischii, the upper part of the linea aspera, the fascia lata, or the inner Lrface of the tendon of insertion of the glutens maximus. It may send a slip to the jistrocnemius. 2. SEMI TENDINOSUS The semi-tendinosus (fig. 288)—named from the long tendon which forms the wer half of the muscle—is fusiform and somewhat flattened. Origin.—By a tendon which is common to it and the preceding muscle, from le internal and posterior of the facets at the back of the tuber ischii. Insertion.—(1) The upper part of the inner surface of the tibia below and ihind the insertion of the gracilis; (2) the deep fascia of the inner side of the g- Structure.—The rounded and somewhat flattened tendon of about two inches in ngth is succeeded by a fusiform mass of muscular fibres, which end just below le middle of the thigh in a flattened cylindrical tendon. This runs directly down- Ebrds along the inner side of the pox^liteal space, where it can easily be felt beneath le skin, behind and external to the tendon of the gracilis, in company with which passes downwards and forwards behind the internal condyle to its insertion slow the inner tuberosity. From the lower border of the flattened tendon an )oneurosis passes downwards to the deep fascia of the leg. The fleshy part of [6 muscle is crossed about its middle by a thin tendinous intersection running )wnwards and outwards. Nerve-supply.—From the first, second, and third nerves of the sacral plexus by eans of branches from the great sciatic nerve which enter the outer part of the ep surface of the muscle two or three inches below the tuber ischii. Action.—To extend the hip and flex the knee, and when the knee is flexed to tate the leg inwards. Acting from below, it lifts up the body from the stooping* sition. Relations.—Behind, the gluteus maximus and fascia lata; on its outer side the ceps ; in front, the semi-membranosus, adductor magnus, and near the knee the acilis, sartorius, and the inner head of the gastrocnemius. The large bursa, neath the sartorius tendon also wraps round the upper part of the tendon of e semitendinosus, and separates it from the internal lateral ligament of the lee joint. C C