THE ABTEBIES 506 To its right side is ttie root of the innominate artery, and higher up are tt trachea and the inferior thyroid veins. To its left side, but on a posterior plane, are the left subclavian artery and tl left pneumogastric nerve; and, slightly overlapping it, the edge of the left pleu] and lung (fig. 328). The variations in the origin of the left common carotid are given under Variations ( THE Arch of the Aorta (page 500). THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY IN THE NECK The common carotid artery in the neck extends from the sterno-cla\icul articulation to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage on a level with the four cervical vertebra where it divides into the external and internal carotid arterL A line drawn from the sterno-clavicular joint to the interval between the mastc process and the angle of the jaw would indicate its course. The artery is at fi] deeply placed beneath the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscl and at the level of the top of the sternum is only three-quarters of an in (2 cm.) distant from its fellow of the opposite side, and merely separated frc it by the trachea. As the carotid arteries run up the neck, however, they diver in the form of a V and become more superficial, though on a plane posterior to tl in which they lie at the root of the neck, and are separated from each other by t larynx and pharynx. At their bifurcation they are about two inches and a quar (6 cm.) apart. The common carotid is contained in a sheath of fascia comm to it and the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve. The artery, vej, and nerve, however, are not in contact, but separated from each other by fibre septa, which divide the common sheath into three compartments : one for i artery, one for the vein, and one for the nerve. The vein, which is larger tt the artery, lies to the outer side, and somewhat overlaps the artery. The pneur gastric nerve lies behind and between the two vessels. The vessel on the rLjt side measures about three and three-quarter inches (9*5 cm.), on the left side ab four and three-quarter inches (12 cm.). Relations.—In front the artery is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, platys] and deep fascia, and is more or less overlapped by the sterno-mastoid mus At the lower part of the neck it is covered in addition by the sterno-hyoid { sterno-thyroid muscles, and is crossed by the anterior jugular vein, and is of overlapped by the thyroid body. Opposite the cricoid cartilage it is crossed obliqi by the omo-hyoid muscle ; and above this spot by the middle and superior thyn the lingual, and generally the facial veins in their course to the internal jugulr, and by the middle sterno-mastoid artery as it passes from the superior thyroid art f its usual source, on its way down to the sterno-mastoid muscle. The descend |is hypoglossi nerve generally descends in front of the carotid sheath, being there joi jd by the communicantes hypoglossi, one or two small branches of the second and t] 1x1 cervical nerves. At times this nerve runs within the sheath. There are usually j'O lymphatic glands about the bifurcation of the artery. These are often fO|icl enlarged and infiltrated in cancer of the lip and tongue. j Behind, the common carotid lies on the longus colli below, and rectus caj jis anticus major above. Posterior to the artery, but in the same sheath, is the pneu b- gastric nerve ; and posterior to the sheath, the chain of the sympathetic and ,ie cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic and pneumogastric nerves. At the Ic jer part of the neck the inferior thyroid artery courses obliquely behind the caroti( |as does likewise the recurrent laryngeal nerve. \ Internally, from below upwards, are the trachea and oesophagus, with the re r- rent laryngeal nerve in the groove between them, and the terminal branches oJ Lie