MESENCEPHALON—EPENGEPHALON 753 The best marked of the white strands are the superior peduncles of the cere- bellum, the fillet, and the posterior longitudinal bundle (fig. 444). The filaments of origin of the third nerve, passing from its nucleus through the tegmentum and inner part of the substantia nigra, are also conspicuous in sections (fig. 448). The superior cerebellar peduncle is readily distinguishable in sections through the lowest part of the mesencephalon as a white, crescent-shaped bundle with its inner or concave side bounded by the grey-coloured formatio reticularis which separates it from the grey matter of the aqueduct. Higher up it takes a deeper course below the floor of the aqueduct, and decussates with its fellow of the opposite side. It then passes into the subthalamic region, and separates into an inner and an outer division. The inner division passes internal to the red nucleus and enters the under surface of the optic thalamus. The outer division passes external to the red nucleus and probably enters the globus pallidus of the lenticular nucleus. Fibres have been described as passing from the red nucleus to the cerebral cortex. The fillet appears as a flattened bundle considerably smaller than the cerebellar peduncle, and is placed below and external to the latter. It passes obliquely upwards and outwards, and reaches the surface, appearing as a triangular band of fibres before noticed. It winds round the superior cerebellar peduncles, and dis- appears, for the most part, under the testis of the same side. Part of it is said to ascend in the formatio reticularis and decussate with the fibres of the opposite side, the foremost part of this decussation appearing as the posterior commissure which has been described in connection with the third ventricle. The posterior longitudinal bundle is a flattened bundle of fibres, thinner externally than internally, which is placed between the formatio reticularis and the grey matter of the aqueduct. It probably connects the nuclei of the nerves (third, fourth, and sixth) which supi^ly the muscles of the eye. The Epencephalon Dissection.—The pia mater should be removed from the superior and inferior surfaces of the cerebellum ; care should be taken, however, in removing it from the inferior vermi- form process. In dissecting the latter region, the membranes should be clipped close with scissors rather than pulled out, as by the latter method the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle would be removed and the fragile posterior medullary velum would be torn. The student should examine first fhe upper and then the lower surface of the cerebellum, but he should defer the stu.dy of the anterior parts of the inferior vermiform process (pyramid and nodule) imtil the fourth ventricle is opened. The CEREBELLUM consists of two lateral masses, the hemispheres, which are united by a narrower median portion, the vermiform process. This is seen in sagittal section in fig. 427. This median portion is but slightly raised above the level of the hemispheres as seen from above, where it constitutes the superior vermiform process (fig. 427) ; but, as seen from below (inferior vermiform process), it forms the roof of a deep recess between the hemispheres, the vallecula, which is occupied for the most part by the medulla. The vallecula terminates in front at the cavity of the fourth ventricle. Behind, it passes into a deep notch, the incisura marsupialis, which is occupied by the falx cerebelli and the cisterna magna of the subarachnoid space. The surface of the cerebellum is covered by a number of folia, which are curved, with a general direction convex backwards and outwards. The folia are much narrower than the cerebral convolutions, and are of a darker grey colour than the latter. They are separated by fissures, some of which appear on the surface separating individual folia ; others dip in for some distance below the surface, and within these secondary fissures are developed. In this way the great horizontal fissure and the interlobar fissures are formed. The separation into lobes is somewhat arbitrary, as fissures resembling the interlobar fissures in character traverse the substance of the lobes. 30