THE EYEBALL AND ITS SUBBOUNDINGS 875 When the eyes are directed to an object straight in front of them, this aperture is about twelve milhrnetres wide, but its width varies with upward and downward movements of the eyeball, being greatest on looking strongly upwards, diminishing gradually as the eye looks progressively lower. The angles formed by the meeting of the lids at each end of the palpebral aperture are named respectively the outer and inner canthus, of which the outer, or temporal, is sharp, while the inner, or nasal, is rounded off. On a closer inspection, it will be found that, for the last five milli- metres or so before reaching the inner canthus, the edges of the lids run an almost parallel course, and are here devoid of lashes. Through the open palpebral aperture the front of the eyeball comes into view, extending quite to the outer, but not reach- ing as far as the inner, canthus; just within the latter we find a small reddish prominence, the lachrymal caruncle ; and between this and the eyeball a fold of conjunctiva known as the plica semilunaris. While the eye is open, press one finger on the skin, a little beyond the outer canthus, and draw it firmly outwards from the middle line; observe that the upper lid then falls over the eyeball, and that the outline of a firm band already referred to (the tendo oculi) becomes evident, passing between the inner canthus and the nose. The falling of the lid is caused by our dragging upon a ligament (the outer palpebral) to which the outer end of its tarsus is attached, and so putting the lid itself upon the stretch. If, while the eyeball is directed downwards, we place one finger on the outer end of the upper eyelid and draw it forcibly upwards and outwards, we can usually cause the lower division of the lachrymal gland to present just above the outer canthus. The upper eyelid is much broader than the lower, extending upwards as far as the eyebrow. The skin covering it is loosely attached to the subjacent tissues above, but more firmly below, nearer the free margin, where it overlies a firm fibrous tissue called the tarsus. When the eye is open, a fold is present at the upper border of this latter more tightly applied portion of skin, called the superior palpebral fold, and by it the lid is marked off into an upper or orbital, and a lower or tarsal, division. The presence of the tarsus can be readily appreciated on our pinching horizontally the entire thickness of the eyelid below the palpebral fold. The lower eyelid is similarly divided anatomically into a tarsal and an orbital part, but the demarcation is sometimes unrecognisable on the surface, though there is usually here also a fold or groove (the inferior palpebral) visible when the eye is widely opened. There is no precise limit of this lid below, but it may be regarded as extending to the level of the lower margin of the orbit. Numerous very fine short hairs are seen on the cutaneous surface of both eyelids. The free margin of each lid has two edges—(a) An outer, or anterior, rounded edge, along which the stiff eyelashes, or cilia, are closely placed in several rows; and (b) a sharp posterior edge, which is applied to the surface of the globe. The lashes of both eyelids have their points turned away from the palpebral aperture, so that the upper ones curve upwards, and the lower downwards; the cilia of the upper lid are the stronger, and those in the middle of each row* are longer than those at each end. Between the two edges just described, the lid-margin has a smooth surface, on which we observe a single row of minute apertures, which are the openings of large modified sebaceous glands (the Meibomian follicles); it is by these glistening, well-lubricated surfaces that the opposite lids come into apposition when they are closed. The sharp posterior edge of the lid-margin marks the situation of the transition of skin into mucous i membrane. Not far from the inner end of this edge we find a prominence, the I lachrymal papilla, on the summit of which is a small hole (lachrymal punctum), I the opening of the canaliculus for the passage of tears into the lachrymal sac. The ' lower punctum is rather larger than the upper, and is placed further from the inner canthus. If we now examine the inner surface of the eyelids—e.g. of the lower—we observe that it is lined by a soft mucous membrane, the palpebral conjunctiva.