THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 840 (6) The ulnar nerve is the largest branch of the inner cord of the brachial plexus, and is derived from the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves. It runs downwards between the axillary artery and the vein, and preserves the same relation to the brachial artery for the upper third of the arm. It then diverges from the brachial artery at an acute angle, and accompanies the inferior profunda artery to the interval between the internal condyle of the humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna. In this course it is placed under cover of the deep fascia, and pierces the internal intermuscular septum. It then passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and runs downwards under cover of that muscle, between it and the flexor profunda digitorum, to reach the wrist. At the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm it is joined at an acute angle by the ulnar artery, and runs parallel to the inner side of that vessel in the middle and lower two-thirds of the forearm. It enters the hand by crossing the superficial surface of the anterior annular ligament close to the radial border of the pisiform bone, and terminates by bifurcating into a superficial and a deep division. Branches.—The ulnar resembles the medial nerve in not furnishing any branches to the upper arm. As it passes between the olecranon process and the internal condyle, it gives off two or three fine filaments to the elbow joint. In the forearm it supplies the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner portion of the flexor profundus digitorum, and gives oft' the palmar cutaneous branch. In the hand it supplies the integument of the hypothenar eminence, the little finger and half of the ring finger and part of the dorsum; it also gives twigs to the palm. It also supplies the short intrinsic muscles of the hand with the exception of the abductor, the opponens, the outer head of the flexor brevis poUicis, and the two outer lumbricales. (a) The nerves to the flexor carpi ulnaris and to the inner two divisions of the flexor profundus digitorum arise from the ulnar in the upper third of the forearm. (b) The palmar cutaneous arises at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the forearm, and runs downwards in front of the ulnar artery, and is conducted by the vessel into the palm. It furnishes some filaments to the vessel, and ends in the integument covering the central depressed surface of the palm. (c) The dorsal or posterior branch arises about two inches above the wrist joint, and passes backwards under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris to reach the dorsal aspect of the wrist. It crosses superficial to the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris immediately below the lower end of the ulna, and, after giving off twigs to supply the skin of the dorsum of the hand, divides into three branches, namely: a branch to the inner border of the little finger ; a branch w^hich divides to supply the contiguous borders of the ring and little fingers, and a branch which communi- cates with the radial and participates in the supply of the adjacent borders of the ring and middle fingers. (d) The superficial terminal branch of the ulnar nerve gives off a branch to supply the palmaris brevis muscle, and several twigs, which are distributed to the skin which covers the hypothenar eminence, and then divides into two branches, an inner and an outer. The inner branch is distributed to the inner side of the little finger on its volar aspect. The outer branch communicates with the median nerve, and then divides to supply the contiguous margins of the ring and little finger. The distribution of these branches to the fingers resembles that of the digital branches of the median nerve, which has been already described. (e) The deep branch of the ulnar nerve accompanies the deep branch of the ulnar artery into the interval between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles, and then passes through the fibres of the opponens minimi digiti to reach the deep surface of the flexor tendons. It supplies the abductor, flexor brevis, and opponens minimi digiti, the two inner lumbricales, all the interossei, the adductor, and the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. Occasionally it also gives a twig to the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis.