545 INFEBIOB THYBOID ortical substance, some of which extend through it to the underlying white sub- fcance. The cortical branches of the anterior cerebral, roughly speaking, supply 16 median surface of the frontal lobe as far as the precuneus, the inner part of its rbital surface, and part of its convex surface, viz. the highest part of the ascending j:ontal and the first and most of the second frontal convolutions. The cortical [ranches of the middle cerebral—or Sylvian artery as it is often called, because t its relation to the Sylvian fissure—supply the most important area, namely, the [lotor convolutions; and also the largest, namely, the inferior frontal, the ascending larietal, part of the inferior parietal, the supramarginal and angular, the posterior art of the superior parietal, the first temporal, and the anterior part of the second ^nd third temporal convolutions. The cortical branches of the posterior cerebral japply the occipital lobe, and the inferior aspect of the temporal lobe. ! It will be seen, therefore, that the middle cerebral supplies the motor region, both bntral and cortical, except a part of the leg centre. It also supplies the region of he cortex that subserves cutaneous sensibility, the cortical auditory centre, and in art the higher visual centre. It likewise supplies all the cortical regions concerned ji speech processes in the left hemisphere. The anterior cerebral supplies only a nail part of the motor region—namely, the part of the leg centre that occupies 16 paracentral lobule and the highest part of the ascending frontal convolution, 'he posterior cerebral supplies the visual path from the middle of the tract jackwards, and the half vision centre in the occipital lobe. It supplies also the prpora quadrigemina and the sensory part of the internal capsule. THE THYROID AXIS The thyroid axis arises from the upper and front part of the subclavian artery, sually opposite the internal mammary, and a little internal to the inner border of scalenus anticus. It is a short thick trunk, and divides almost immediately ito three radiating branches—namely, the inferior thyroid, the suprascapular, |nd the transverse cervical (fig. 330). Occasionally the posterior scapular branch of the transverse cervical arises from lie third portion of the subclavian ; the superficial cervical, the other branch into hich the transverse cervical divides, then commonly comes off from the axis. THE INFEEIOR THYROID ARTERY The inferior thyroid, the largest of the three branches into which the thyroid ds divides, ascends tortuously upwards and inwards in front of the vertebral artery, 16 recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the longus colli muscle, and behind the common rotid, and the sympathetic nerve or its middle cervical ganglion, to the thyroid dy, where it anastomoses with the superior thyroid artery and the artery of the posite side. It gives off the following branches :—(1) Muscular ; (2) ascending xvical; (3) oesophageal; (4) tracheal; and (5) inferior laryngeal. (1) The muscular branches sup^Dly the scalenus anticus, longus colh, sterno- oid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-liyoid muscles, and the inferior constrictor muscle of e pharynx. (2) The ascending cervical (fig. 329) is given off from the inferior thyroid as at vessel is passing beneath the carotid sheath. It ascends between the scalenus ticus and the rectus capitis anticus major, lying parallel and a little internal to e phrenic nerve and behind the internal jugular vein. It anastomoses with the rtebral, ascending pharyngeal, and occipital arteries, and supplies the following anches \—(a) Muscular, to the deep muscles of the neck; {h) spinal, which enter N