1107 THE FEMALE PEBINJEUM lyer of smooth muscular fibre, the prserectalis of Henle, in which end the greater art of the anterior longitudinal fibres of the rectum. It is pierced by the pudic artery and vein and the dorsal nerve of the penis, 'he dorsal vein of the penis passes between it and the subpubic hgament. THE FEMALE PERINEUM The female periuseuni (fig. 656) differs from that of the male, partly in the erforation of the whole of its fascial and muscular structures in the middle line by 16 vulvo-vaginal passage, and partly in the adaptation of the perinaeal muscles to iie modified conditions of the external genital apparatus. The corpora cavernosa Fig. 656.—Diagrammatic Kepresbntation of the Perin^eal Structures IN THE Female. tnis are represented by the relatively diminutive corpora clitoridis; the ischio- vernosi are proportionately reduced in size, but differ in no other material spect; the corpus spongiosum is divided into two lateral segments, which are presented by the bulbi vestibuli and partes intermediales; and the two bulbo- jvernosi are separate, and appear in an attenuated form, spread over the erectile 3sue as an attenuated plane of fibres, the compressor vaginse, which is often fficult to recognise on dissection ; while the median raphe uniting the two uscles in the male gives place to the genital fissure. The superficial transversi Jrinaei differ only in size from those of the male ; but the deep transversus Jiinsei is of course cleft by the vagina, and its fibres are relatively thin and weak id in great part unstriped. The glands of Bartholin, although morphologically entical with Cowper's glands, are less deeply placed. The greater development of the connective tissue structures between the genital -nal and the third stage of the rectum, leading to the formation of the perinaeal )dy, is also a peculiarity of the female (fig. 619). The perinaeal body is triangular [ sagittal section, and bounded in front by the vulvo-vaginal wall, behind by the iterior wall of the rectum, and below by the integument between the posterior 4 B 2