GA STBOCNEMIUS—PLANTARIS 393 md after receiving the fibres of the solens muscle is known by the name of the endo Achilhs. Nerve-supply.—From the internal popliteal branch of the great sciatic nerve, \rhich sends sural branches to the adjacent portions of the anterior surfaces of the wo heads, in the upper third of the leg. Action.—Its action will be described with that of the soleus, which forms apart f the same muscle. Relations.—Behind, the deep fascia, the external saphenous vein and nerve, nd the communicans fibularis nerve. Between the two heads above is the ilantaris muscle. In front lie the knee joint, the tendon of the semi-membranosus, he popliteus, the plantaris tendon, the soleus, the popliteal vessels, and internal opliteal nerve. On the outer side, above, are the biceps tendon, and external lophteal nerve ; on the inner side, above, are the tendons of the semi-tendinosus, racilis, sartorius, and adductor magnus. A bursa lies beneath its inner head, eparates it from the tendon of the semi-membranosus, and communicates with the nee joint., Variations.—The most common variation is the addition of a third head ft-om the osterior surface of the lower end of the femur. This may cross, or even run between, the opliteal vessels. 2. PLANTARIS The plantaris—named from its occasional attachment to the fascia covering he sole of the foot {=2^lanta)—is a fusiform, somewhat flattened muscle with a ery long ribbon-shaped tendon. Origin.—(1) The low^er two inches of the outer bifurcation of the linea aspera 3gether with the posterior surface of the femur immediately below that ridge ; nd (2) the adjacent part of the posterior ligament of the knee joint. lasertion.—The inner side of the lower portion of the posterior surface of the dcaneum ; sometimes, however, it blends with the inner border of the tendo Achillis, nd sometimes it is continued into the inner division of the plantar fascia. Structure.—Arising fleshy, the fibres of this small muscle have a somewhat enniform arrangement and converge upon the thin tendon, which appears first on 16 inner side of the muscle, and soon becoming free runs downwards and slightly iwards across the calf between the gastrocnemius and the soleus. In the lower tiird of the leg it lies along the inner border of the tendo Achillis, with which it is ometimes blended. Nerve-siipply.—From the internal popliteal branch of the great sciatic nerve by small filament which enters the deep aspect of the muscle near the upper part of i inner border. Action.—This vestigial muscle is a feeble extensor of the ankle and flexor of le knee joint. By its attachment to the posterior ligament of the knee joint it 411 tend to draw backwards that ligament during flexion of the knee, and so revent its being caught between the articular surfaces. Relations.—Behind lie the fascia of the popliteal space, the biceps, the gastro- tiemius, and the external popliteal nerve; in front are the popliteal vessels and iternal popliteal nerve, the pojoliteus muscle and the soleus. Variations.—In addition to the above-mentioned variations m the point of insertion, this luscle may sometimes be double at its origin, and it is not infrequently deficient.