PELVIC FASCIM AND MUSCLES 1099 las far back as the sacro-iliac joint and to the posterior Hp of the crest; beloiu, to the back of the symphysis, the inner lip of the lower border of the ischio- pubic ramus, and the inner border of the ischial tuberosity; and behind it skirts I the osseous border of the great sciatic notch as far as the ischial spine, but at the lesser sciatic notch passes out of the pelvis with the muscle, and appears in the post-femoral region of the thigh. At its borders it is closely related to the fascia iliaca above, the fascia of the pyriformis behind, and the deep triangular ligament below. Its outer surface is in contact with the muscular fibres of the obturator internus ; its mner surface is divided into two portions by a curved band of fibres called the ' white line ' or arcus tendineus, extending from the inner surface of the ischial spine to the back of the os pubis, a little external to the symphysis. The upper or pelvic segment above the white line is separated from the pelvic viscera by subperitoneal tissue; the lower or ischio-rectal segment, below the line, enters into the formation of the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa. This portion forms a sheath (canal of Alcock) for the pudic vessels and nerves about an inch above the inner margin of the tuber ischii. The fascia gives off from its inner surface at Fig. 649.—Muscles of the Floor of the Pelvis. the white line two thin laminae : one, the recto-vesical, to the visceral surface of the ! levator ani; the other, the ischio-rectal, to the parietal aspect of the same muscle. The levator ani muscle (figs. 648, 650), with its fellow of the opposite side, i constitutes the greater part of the muscular floor of the pelvis, and acts as a septum between the pelvic cavity and the ischio-rectal fossa. It arises anteriorly from the back of the os pubis, just external to the attachment of the pubo-vesical muscle, j posteriorly from the inner side of the ischial spine below the origin of the coecygeus, and between these two points from the whole length of the ' white line.' Its fibres form a flat plane of considerable strength, and pass downwards, backwards, and inwards to their insertion, the most posterior to the tip of the coccyx; those next (in order to join the opposite muscle in a median raphe extending from the coccyx I to the tendinous centre of the perinaeum, and the rest to the side of the rectum, I interlacing with the longitudinal layer of the muscular wall of the gut. Its two surfaces may be termed visceral and parietal; the former, looking forwards as well I as upwards, is invested by a layer of fascia, the recto-vesical, and is further separated ' from the lower part of the bladder by subperitoneal tissue; the parietal surface,