THE NECK 1133 (ii) Sterno-clavicnlar. This is best marked below. In the middle line it meets its fellow, and blends with No. i. here also. Passing outwards, it encases the depressors of the hyoidbone, finally blending with No. i. at the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid. (iii) Tracheal. This lies under the depressors of the hyoid, over the trachea, also encasing the thyroid gland. Farther out, it forms the carotid sheath, and, blending with No. iv. over the anterior scalene, is thus brought into continuity with Nos. i. and ii. also, (iv) Prevertebral. This layer passes over the longus colli and rectus capitis antieus major. The above layers should also be traced vertically, with especial reference to their relations at the level of the top of the sternum and the clavicle, (a) At the level of the top of the sternum, (i) Superficial, passes over the sternum, (ii) Sterno- clavicular : this, descending in front of the depressor muscles, divides just below Fig. 681.- Section of Neck through the Sixth Cervical Vertebra. (One-half.) (Braiine.) RECURRENT LARYNGEAL NERVE PHARYNX Longus colli muscle SupeiHor thyroid artery DESCENDENS NONl ' VAGUS LARYNX Thyro-arytenoid muscle CRICOID CARTILAGE PHRENIC NERVE Scalenus antieus Sterno-cleido mastoid BRACHIAL. PLEXUS Scalenus medius External jugular vein SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE [muscles [thyro- and omo-hyoid Sterno-hyoid [just posterior are seen tlie Crico-arytenoideus lateralis Muscular process of the thyroid cartilage THYROID GLAND Splenius PART OF ARTICULAR SURFACE OF SEVENTH CERVICAL VERTEBRA Semi-spinalis and multifld SIXTH CERVICAL VERTEBRA Common carotid artery Internal jugular vein. BRACHIAL PLEXUS Scalenus medius External jugular vein Scalenus posticus SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE Levator anguli scapulae Cerviealis ascendens Transversalis cervicis and trachelo- [mastoid Profunda cervicis vessels Trapezius Biventer cervicis and complexus the thyroid cartilage into two layers, which are attached to the front and back of Ithe sternum. Between these lie some fat and a small gland, (iii) Tracheal: this 3ses down over the trachea into the thorax (middle mediastinum). As it descends, it encases the left innominate vein, and ends by blending with the fibrous layer of the pericardium. Mr. Hilton suggested that the attachment of this fascia above, and that of the central tendon of the diaphragm below, to the pericardium served to keep this sac duly stretched, and so prevented any pressure of the lungs lupon the heart, (iv) Prevertebral: this, descending behind the oesophagus, dips into the posterior mediastinum. (/3) At level of the clavicle. Only two of the above layers are met with so far outwards as this—(i) Subcutaneous, which passes over the clavicle ; (ii) sterno-clavicular, which, having encased the omo-hyoid, passes behind the clavicle, blends with the sheath of the subclavius, and gives a sheath to the subclavian vein. That to the artery is derived from No. iii. at the scalenus antieus.