597 INFEBIOB MESENTEBIG meso-colon, ascends upwards and to the right, to anastomose with the middle cohc. The other descends, and, entering the sigmoid meso-colon, anastomoses with the ascending branch of the sigmoid artery. The distribution of this artery and the next to the colon is similar to that of the colic branches of the superior mesenteric, and does not require a separate description. (See Superior Mesenteric Artery, pages 593, 594 ) (2) The sigmoid artery runs downwards and to the left over the psoas muscle, and, entering the sigmoid meso-colon, divides into two branches ; the upper anastomosing with the left colic, the lower with the superior hagmorrhoidal. (3) The superior hsemorrhoidal is the continued trunk of the inferior mesenteric. It descends into the pelvis, behind the rectum, between the layers of the meso- FiG. 367.—The Infeeior Mesenteric Artery and Vein. (The colon is turned up, and the small intestines are drawn to the right side.) Inferior pancrea- lico-duodenal artery Superior mesenteric artery Right colic artery Abdominal aorta Vena cava inferior Right common iliac artery Middle sacral artery and vein Left colic artery Inferior mesenteric vein Inferior mesen- teric artery Left colic artery Inferior mesen- teric artery Left common iliac vein Sigmoid artery Superior ha;morrhoidal artery rectum. On reaching the wall of the bowel it bifurcates, one branch proceeding on either side of the gut, ta within four or five inches of the anus. Here each again divides, and the branches, piercing the muscular coat, descend between that coat and the mucous membrane, forming with each other, and with the middle haemorrhoidal arteries—derived from the internal iliac—a series of small vessels, running longitudinally to the rectum, and parallel to each other as far as the level of the internal sphincter, where, by their anastomosis, they form a series of loops around the lower part of the rectum. The chief variations in the inferior mesenteric are:—(A) Its place may be supplied by the superior mesenteric. (B) It may give branches to the liver or kidney. (C) It may give otf the middle colic. (D) It may give off a stem to both umbilical arteries. (E) The anastomosis between the middle and left colic arteries may be wanting—the normal condition in the ruminants and the porcupines.