348 THE MUSCLES Relations.—Superficially, the biceps, brachio-radialis, pronator radii teres,! extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, the radial vessels and nerve, the posteriori interosseous recurrent artery ; deeply, the superior radio-ulnar joint. Variations.—A second head has been seen from the hmneriis near the insertion of the deltoid, and it may receive fibres from the brachio-radialis. 2. EXTENSOK OSSIS METACARPI POLLICIS The extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, or abductor longus poUicis—named fron its action upon the metacarpal bone of the thumb—is a fusiform sheet. Origin.—(1) The outer division of the posterior surface of the ulna for a shor distance below the junction of the upper and middle thirds of that bone ; (2) thd adjacent portion of the interosseous membrane ; (3) the posterior surface of thil radius near the middle of that bone for about two inches below the insertion of thij supinator brevis ; and (4) the septa which separate it from the supinator brevis; extensor carpi ulnaris, and extensor longus pollicis. j Insertion.—(1) The small impression upon the radial side of the base of the firsj metacarpal bone ; (2) the fascia covering the ball of the thumb ; and frequentlj (3) the back of the trapezium. Structure.—A somewhat bipenniform muscular sheet arising by an origm whic] stretches obliquely downwards and outwards from the back of the ulna, at th upper part of its middle third, to the middle of the back of the radius. The tendo:j appears first as an aponeurosis upon the anterior aspect of the muscle just belo^l the middle of the forearm. The fleshy fibres pass obliquely downwards and oul| wards to be inserted upon the posterior face of this aponeurosis. This as it descendl thickens into a rounded tendon, which, becoming free from its muscular fibres jus above the posterior annular ligament, crosses the back of the two radial extensc! tendons, and enters the first compartment of the posterior annular ligament upo the outer surface of the lower end of the radius. After leaving this compartmen the tendon passes vertically downwards, lying upon the external lateral ligament ( the wrist joint and the radial artery, to be inserted into the first metacarpal bon From its anterior border a strong aponeurosis is given off to that part of the palmi fascia which covers the ball of the thumb, and which forms a part of the origin ( the abductor pollicis. Frequently this division of the insertion is indicated by groove running up the tendon, or by a more complete separation which may exteii as high as the fleshy fibres of the muscle. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through th seventh cervical nerve) by filaments derived from the posterior interosseous divisici of the musculo-spiral nerve which enter the muscle upon the upper part of i; superficial aspect. Action.—(1) It abducts and extends the first metacarpal bone, drawing tl thumb away from the middle line of the hand, and slightly forwards. (2) It abduc the wrist. It should be remembered that on account of the plane of the thun being different to that of the palm and fingers, its abduction involves a considerabj forward movement, which must not be confounded with flexion. I Relations.—Superficially, the extensor communis digitorum, extensor miniij digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, the posterior interosseous artery, and posterii annular ligament; deeply, the extensor brevis and the extensor longus pollicis, tl two radial extensors, the radial artery, and the wrist joint. Variations.—The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis may receive an accessory slip fro the radial group of extensors.