THE OBGANS OF VOICE 954 relationship, more especially on the left side, with the oesophagus and recurrent laryngeal nerve, with branches of the inferior thyroid artery, and with the sheath containing the great vessels of the neck. The middle or pyramidal process is developed in connection with the tliyro- glossal duct, and, like the isthmus, which has a similar origin, it is the most I variable portion of the gland. When present it is connected inferiorly with the isthmus or neighbouring part of the left lateral lobe. It extends upwards to be connected by means of fibrous tissue with the thyro-hyoid membrane or the body of the hyoid bone. It varies very much in appearance, but its apex is usually above. In some cases it is divided, and occasionally it is represented throughout by fibrous tissue. The thyro-glossal duct may, even in the adult, remain more or less pervious in its lower portion. Above, it is represented by the foramen cfecum on the dorsum of the tongue. Fig. 538.—Thyroid Body, with Middle Lobe and Levator Muscle. Stylo-hyoid ligament' Sterno-hyoid muscle Omo-hyoid Thyro-hyoid Crico-thyroid ij Sterno-thyroid ISTHMUS TRACHEA EPIGLOTTIS DY OF HYOID BONE Thyro-hyoid ligament Thyro-hyoid membrane Levator glandulae thyroideae THYROID CARTILAGE PYRAMIDAL PROCESS OF THYROID BODY —LEFT LATERAL LOBE A frequent muscular slip, derived from the thyro-hyoid (levator glandulae thyroideaa), descends from the hyoid bone to the isthmus. The suspensory ligaments of the thyroid gland, two broadish bands, pass from the inner and back part of the lateral lobes upwards to the sides of the cricoid cartilage. Below, they are intimately blended with the investing capsule, and thus form on each side a sling which suspends the organ. These ligaments have no sharply defined edges, being continued into the layers of fasciae covering the front of the cricoid cartilage and posterior surface of the trachea. The recurrent laryngeal nerve lies in immediate contact with the outer surface of the ligament at its upper attachment. (Berry.) Structure.—The thyroid body, enveloped in a dense but thin covering of 1