THE MALE BEPBODUCTIVE OBGANS 1072 and the corpora cavernosa to blend together in the middle line; and it rests posteriorly against the superficial triangular ligament about half an inch in front of the anus. It is liable to considerable enlargement after middle age. Muscles.—The muscles of the penis are three on each side—the ischio- cavernosus, the bulbo-cavernosus, and the superficial transversus perinfei (fig. 629).| The ischio-cavernosus (erector penis) arises from the inner surface of the I tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, from the pubic ramus, and from the adjacent| root of the crus penis, and is inserted into the surface of the tunica albuginea of the corpus cavernosum near the point of attachment of the suspensory ligament. A slip, the compressor venae dorsalis, is occasionally detached from its more distal portion, and becomes inserted into the fascial sheath of the penis over the dorsal vessels, or may blend with its fellow in a narrow tendon in this situation. The bulbo-cavernosus (accelerator urinae) arises from a median raphe which I extends from the anterior extremity of the sphincter ani along the whole length of the bulb as far as the level of the symphysis. A few of its more posterior fibres pass outw^ards to become inserted into the superficial triangular ligament and into the bulb, and a bundle of its most anterior fibres may, like the similar slip from the ischio-cavernosus, form a sling around the corpora cavernosa and become attached to the fascial sheath of the penis, or it may be inserted into the side of the, corpus cavernosum itself. In the former case it acts as a compressor of the dorsal' vein. The rest of the fibres pass around the bulb to become lost in the connective tissue on the dorsal aspect of the latter, between it and the corpora cavernosa; the two muscles thus practically encircle the bulb, and act as an annular sphincter upon the contained portion of the urethra. It is often joined by fibres from the sphincter ani and deep transversus perin?ei. The superficial transversus perinaei is the most variable of all the perin^eal ; muscles. It usually arises from the inner surface of the tuberosity and ramus of; the ischium, blending with the origin of the ischio-cavernosus, and passes inwards; and forwards to its insertion into the tendinous centre of the perin^eum, interlacing I with the posterior fibres of origin of the bulbo-cavernosus. Some of its fibres may blend with those of the sphincter ani and levator ani. ' These three pairs of muscles possess each a tliin fascial sheath, and lie in the I superficial perineal interspace between the fascia of Colles and the superficial! triangular ligament. They are supplied by branches of the deep division of the superficial perinasal nerves and vessels. | The action of the penile muscles is not very obvious. The compressores venae: dorsalis when present may aid in erection by impeding the return of venous blood' from the organ, but there is no reason to believe that any disadvantage attaches | to their absence. The bulbo-cavernosus, with its fellow, is however of value as ai compressor of the bulbous portion of the urethra, and thus assists in the ejaculation, of the semen, continuing the action of the ejaculatory fibres of the prostate and of I the deep transversus perinaei; and it may also be of service in expelling the last: drops of the urine. The compression of the vessels of the bulb favours the engorge- i ment of the rest of the corpus spongiosum. ; The ischio-cavernosus in the absence of its dorsal fasciculus can scarcely justify; its older name of erector penis, but it appears to have the power of impressing; voluntary movements upon the turgid organ. The superficial transversus perinaei j is accessory to the bulbo-cavernosus, fixing the raphe from which its fibres arise, and it adds slightly to the strength of the muscular floor of the pelvis. j