649 VEINS OF THE SCALP AND FACE thence passes through the digastric triangle to the upper border of the hyoid bone, where it terminates in the internal jugular vein. In this course it is reinforced by numerous collateral veins, and gradually increases in size. It has, moreover, numerous communications with the deep veins. This long continuous trunk vein is variously named according to the region in which it lies. Thus, as it descends over the frontal bone it is known as the frontal vein; as it lies by the side of the nose it is called the angular vein ; whilst in the remainder of its course over the face and neck it is spoken of as the facial vein. Fig. 385.—The Superficial Veins and Lymphatics of the Scalp, Face, and Neck. Frontal vein fipraorbital vein munication with ophthalmic vein 'inverse nasal vein- Angular vein- 'eral nasal veins. verse facial vein iperior labial or coronary vein ior pterygoid or- •ep facial vein )r coronary vein Facial vein 'erior labial vein Submental vein Lingual vein ^Mor thyroid vein idle thvroid vein I? -ior jugular vein tnication betu-een or jugular veins Anterior temporal vein Posterior temporal vein Deep temporal vein Parotid lymphatic gland Common temporal vein Internal maxillary vein Occipital vein Temporo-maxillary vein Posterior auricular vein Occipital lymphatic glam Sterno-mastoid lymphati glands Communication betwei facial and extern, jugular veins Submaxillary lymphatic glands Internal jugular vein Posterior external jugular vein External jugular vein Superficial cervical chai of glands Transverse cervical vein Suprascapular vein Jugulo-cephalic vein (1) The frontal vein begins about the level of the coronal suture in a venous plexus which communicates with the anterior division of the temporal vein. Soon forming a single trunk, it passes vertically downwards over the frontal bone, a short distance from the middle line and parallel to its fellow of the opposite side, to the inner canthus of the eyelids, where it takes the name of the angular vein (fig. 385). Tributaries.—In its course it receives numerous tributaries from the forehead, and communicates freely with the vein of the opposite side, across the glabella or root of the nose, by a transverse branch sometimes called the transverse nasal vein.