1129 THE NECK uylo-hyoid vessels and nerve. Posteriorly, and separated from the above structures )y the stylo-mandibular ligament, is the upper part of the external carotid artery ^hich is embedded in the parotid gland, where it gives off its two terminal and the )osterior auricular branches. More deeply lie the internal jugular vein, internal arotid artery, and the vagus. The superior carotid triangle is bounded above by the digastric, below by he omo-hyoid, and behind by the sterno-mastoid. It contains the upper part of he common carotid and its branches, the external being somewhat anterior to the Internal. All the branches of the external carotid, save the three just given, are ound in this space, together with their veins, the internal jugular vein, the vagus nd sympathetic nerves, and, for a short distance, the spinal accessory, together vdth those nerves which lie in front of and behind the carotids. The inferior carotid or tracheal triangle is bounded above by the omo-hyoid, Fig. 676.—The Subclavian Vessels. (From a dissection in the Hunterian Museum.) Scalenus medius enus antieus and it tlie FHHENIV ERVE Tranaverse cervical artery '.prascapular artery Subclavian artery OF BRACHIAL :US, GIVING OFF !ULO-GUTANEOUS AHi OUTER HEAD OF WIAN NER VES Axillary artery lUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE Thyroid axis Internal jvgular Right common carotid artery VAGUS Commencement of innominale vein Subscapular and two circiimflex arteries ehind by the sterno-mastoid, and in front by the middle line of the neck. It ontains the lower part of the carotid sheath and its contents, with, behind it, the iferior laryngeal nerve and inferior thyroid vessels, and to the inner side the L'achea and thyroid gland. Posterior triangle.—This shows in its lower part a wide depression, the supra- lavicular fossa. Here the brachial plexus may be felt, and, by pressure downwards nd backwards just outside the outer margin of the sterno-mastoid, the pulsation £ the subclavian artery can be stopped against the first rib. This vessel curves pwards and outwards from behind the sterno-clavicular joint to disappear behind be centre of the clavicle, the highest point of the curve being half an inch to an ich above this bone. The subclavian vein lies at a lower level and under cover, ato the above curve rise the pleura and lung. The transverse cervical artery can Dmetimes be felt pulsating a little above the subclavian itself.