142 THE SKELETON The Magnum The magnum is the largest carpal bone, and occupies the centre of the wrist, The superior surface is globular, and sometimes called the head. It is received into the cup formed by the semilunar and scaphoid. The articular surface of the head extends some distance on to the dorsal aspect of the bone. The inferior surface has three facets. The middle is the largest for the base of the third meta- carpal. The ulnar facet is for the fourth, and the small radial facet is for the second metacarpal. The outer (radial) surface articulates with the trapezoid, and presents above this small facet a deep groove for an interosseous ligament. The inner (ulnar) surface of the bone has a long articular surface for the unciform (sometimes the lower part of this surface forms a detached facet), but is rough near its anterior part for ligaments. The palmar surface is convex and rough, and affords origin to the inner head of \hQ flexor brevis poUicis. The rough dorsal i surface is broad, and has a deep concavity, which serves to make the head of the; bone more prominent, and gives rise to the appearance of a neck. Articulations.—Trapezoid, unciform, semilunar, scaphoid, and second, third, and fourth metacarpals. ■ . The Uncifoem The unciform is the most readily recognised of all the carpals, as its palmar^T surface presents a prominent hook-like process; this, the unciform process, has its concavity directed towards the radial side, and forms part of the inner boundary of the passage for the flexor tendons ; to the apex of the process the anterior annular ligament gains an attachment. It also affords origin to the flexor brevis minimi and opponens minimi digiti muscles. The dorsal surface is rough for ligaments. Fig. 146.—The Left Unciform. The inferior surface has two facets "for the bases of fourth and fifth metacarpals. The superior surface forms the apex of a wedge, and is smooth and rounded for articulating with a narrow facet on the ulnar side of the semilunar. The ulnar surface is mainly articular for the cuneiform, whilst the radial surface is faceted for the magnum. Articulations.—With the cuneiform, semilunar, magnum, and the fourth and fifth metacarpals. The central is an occasional element of the carpus. It is situated on the dorsal aspect of the carpus, between the scaphoid, magnum, and trapezoid. This bone is a normal element of the carpus in many mammals, even in the orang and gibbon. It is represented in the carpus of the human embryo, but in most individuals it undergoes suppression or coalesces with the scaphoid. Blood-supply.—The arterial twigs to the carpal bones are derived from the anterior and posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. A large branch from the anterior interosseous is also distributed to the carpus, and twigs are furnished to it from the posterior interosseous artery. Ossification.—At birth the carpal elements are cartilaginous, and the nucleus for each bone appears in the following order :—