472 THE MUSCLES Relations.—Superficially, the anterior fibres of the internal pterygoid, the temporal muscle, and, at a little distance, also a small part of the masseter; deeply, the internal pterygoid muscle, the internal maxillary vessels (unless, as sometimes, they pass across the outer surface of the lower head), the middle meningeal and inferior dental vessels, with the masseteric and posterior deep temporal nerves passing behind or through the attachment of the upper head ; the buccal and anterior deep temporal nerves running between the two heads ; the lingual gustatory and inferior dental nerves beneath the lower head. Variations.^—Muscular fibres are fi:-equently found upon the deep surface of the external pterygoid, running from the back of the external pterygoid plate to the spine of the sphenoid, or the vaginal process of the temporal bone. 4. PTEEYGOIDEUS INTERNUS The pterygoideus internus—named from its origin and relative position—is a thick quadrilateral sheet. Origin.'—(1) The whole of the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate. (2) A small triangular area, consisting of the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone, and a small strip in front belonging to the maxilla, and one behind belonging to the external surface of the external pterygoid plate. Insertion.—The lower half of the internal surface of the ramus of the mandible, including the adjacent parts of its lower and posterior borders, and extending as high as the mylo-hyoid ridge and inferior dental canal. Structure.—Arising fleshy, the fibres run parallel to one another, downwards, backwards, and outwards, to be inserted partly directly into the mandible, and partly in multipenniform fashion, like those of the masseter, into the tips and sides of fibrous septa, which, passing upwards from the periosteum of the mandible, separate the muscular bundles from one another. Nerve-supply.—The internal pterygoid branch of the motor division of the inferior maxillary, which enters the deep surface near its posterior border. Action.—(1) To close the jaw. The same remarks which were made with respect to the very small loss of mechanical advantage in the masseter muscle apply to this muscle. (2) When closed it will draw the jaw forwards; and also (3) it will help the external pterygoid in drawing the ramus of its own side towards the middle line. Relations.—Superficially, the external pterygoid muscle, the internal lateral ligament, the internal maxillary vessels, the inferior dental and lingual nerves; deeply, the tensor palati and superior constrictor of the pharynx, the stylo-hyoid and posterior belly of the digastric, the submaxillary gland. THE MUSCLES AND FASCLE OF THE FEONT OF THE NECK The platysma myoides has been already described (page 452) with the muscles of expression. The muscles of the neck which lie beneath it are surrounded by a layer of deep fascia, called the cervical fascia. This is a strong tubular membrane, attached above to the lower border of the mandible, the parotid fascia, the upper part of the mastoid process, and the superior nuchal line. At the back of the neck it is continuous with the deep fascia which gives a thin investment to the trapezius