724 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM the hemisphere, and will be described later on. The so-called olfactory lobe attains a considerable size in some of the lower animals, and may contain a prolongation of the lateral ventricle in its interior; in man, however, although hollow in embryonic life, it is reduced to a solid olfactory tract and bulb of small size. The olfactory tract and bulb are described for convenience among the cranial nerves, and are termed the olfactory or first pair of nerves. The rhinencephalon (so-called olfactory lobe) is a secondary outgrowth from the primitive cerebral vesicle, and therefore does not come under the same category as the cerebral lobes. It bears the same relation to the prosencephalon that the latter does to the thalam- encephalon. The FRONTAL LOBE occupies the fore part of the hemisphere and presents three surfaces : a convex supero-external or frontal, an inferior or orbital, and an internal or mesial. The convolutions and fissures on the mesial and tentorial surfaces of the hemisphere will be described separately. The frontal lobe is bounded behind by the fissure of Kolando, and below, for about its posterior half, by the stem and posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius. It is limited internally by the calloso- marginal fissure. The frontal surface is separated from the orbital by a well-marked angle which may be called the orbital margin. This margin is usually destitute of fissures, and forms a curve concentric with the orbital arch of the frontal bone. Three fissures on the frontal surface require description : one of these, running in a transverse direction, is termed the prsecentral, the other two, which run parallel to the great longitudinal fissure, are named superior and inferior frontal. The prsecentral sulcus is placed in front of and parallel to the fissure of Kolando, and is usually divided by a sagittally-placed convolution into two parts, a superior and an inferior prascentral; the former is usually continuous with the superior frontal fissure. The superior frontal fissure is sometimes discontinuous with the prsecentral. At its orbital end it often passes into a coronally placed, curved fissure, termed the sulcus fronto-marginalis. The latter is situa.ted just above the orbital margin of the frontal lobe. The inferior frontal fissure may be continuous with the prsecentral, but a narrow gyrus usually separates the two fissures. The convolutions on the frontal surface are four in number : one directed trans- versely, the ascending frontal; and three lying in an antero-posterior direction, named superior, middle, and inferior frontal. The ascending frontal convolution bounds the fissure of Rolando in front, and is placed between that fissure and the prsecentral sulcus. It is connected at each end of the fissure of Rolando with the ascending parietal convolution, and passes into the paracentral lobule on the inner face of the hemisphere. The superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions occupy the remainder of the frontal surface, and are marked off by the superior and inferior frontal fissures. They pass forwards, and become continuous with the convolutions on the orbital surface. They are not simple, but are traversed both in a coronal and sagittal direction by tertiary fissures. The superior frontal convolution is continuous behind with the ascending frontal, and passes in front into the gyrus rectus and into the internal and anterior orbital convolutions. It is continuous with the marginal convolution on the inner face of the hemisphere. The middle frontal convolution is continuous behind with the ascending frontal when the superior and inferior prsecentral fissures are discontinuous. It passes in front into the anterior orbital gyrus. It is almost invariably continuous with the superior and inferior frontal convolutions at the orbital margin of the frontal lobe.