VARIATIONS IN ABCH OF AOBTA 501 (c) Variations defending on Abnormalities in DevelopmeJit of the Dorsal Aortic Stems The right subclavian may arise from the third part of the arch of the aorta. It [then passes behind the trachea and oesophagus, and in front of the vertebral column, to igain the interval between the scalene muscles. The explanation of this abnormality is [that the right fourth arch, from v^hich the right subclavian is normally developed, is iobhterated, whilst the right posterior aortic stem remains pervious as far as the spot where jit normally joins the right fourth arch, the blood thus passing through the aortic stem jinstead of the arch. The recurrent laryngeal nerve in these cases runs straight to the [ arynx, since, the fourth arch being obliterated, the nerve is no longer hooked down by it. [rhe rudiments of the right stem frequently persist as the aberrans branch of the superior [intercostal artery and thoracic aorta. , In addition to the above variations, the arch of the aorta may be higher or lower in she thorax than normal. In the former case it may cross the first bone of the sternum, just below, or even a little above, the sternal notch, and reach the side of the second or iihird thoracic vertebra instead of the fourth. In the latter case, that is, when it is situated lower in the thorax than normal, it may cross the sternum below the level of the manu- [jrium, and come into contact with the spine on a level with the fifth or sixth thoracic Kertebra. 2. The Chief Variations in the Three Primary Branches of the Transverse Portions of the Aortic Arch (1) AU may arise from a common stem: a condition explained on the supposition that ;he anterior aortic roots have become fused, and have so collected all the branches together. A similar condition is normal in the horse. This variation is rare. (2) They may arise as two stems : {a) One stem may be common to the right sub- jlavian, right carotid, and left carotid, the other stem being the left subclavian. This is me of the commonest variations in the arrangement of the primary branches. It is the iiormal condition in many mammals, and was formerly described as the normal condition p man. It is of some surgical interest, in that the left carotid when thus given oft' may iross in front of the trachea. (6) One stem may be common to the left subclavian, left arotid, and right carotid, the other stem being the right subclavian. In this variety the ight carotid passes in front of the trachea, (c) There may be two innominate arteries, ne stem forming the right, the other a left innominate artery as in birds, {d) One stem nay be common to the right and left carotid arteries, the other stem being the left ubclavian—the right subclavian in this case coming from the thoracic aorta. (3) They may arise as three stems ; but, in place of being given off in the normal way, {a) he right and left subclavian may come off separately, and the carotids arise by a common Item between the subclavians. This is the normal condition in some cetaceans. (6) The light subclavian and right carotid may arise separately, the left carotid and left subclavian jorming a left innominate stem, (c) The innominate may give off the left carotid, the feft vertebral, and left subclavian, the other two vessels arising from the arch. f (4) They may arise as four stems, which may be given off' in the following order : {a) Innominate, left carotid, left vertebral, left subclavian (the commonest condition); (6) right arotid, left carotid, left subclavian, right subclavian; (c) right subclavian, right carotid, 3ft carotid, left subclavian—the normal condition in the walrus and wombat. \ (5) They may arise as five stems, the five branches being given off in the following jrder: {a) right subclavian, right carotid, left carotid, left vertebral, left subclavian ; (6) ight carotid, left carotid, left vertebral, left subclavian, right subclavian ; (c) right carotid, 3ft carotid, left subclavian, left vertebral, right subclavian; {d) right subclavian, right xternal carotid, right internal carotid, left common carotid, left subclavian ; {e) innominate, light vertebral, left carotid, left vertebral, left subclavian. (6) They may arise as six stems, given off as follows : right subclavian, right vertebral, light carotid, left carotid, left vertebral, left subclavian. Beanches of the Aech of the Aokta 1. The ascending portion gives off—(1) Eight coronary ; (2) left coronary. ^ 2. The transverse portion gives off—(1) Innominate ; (2) left common carotid ; B) left subclavian. ' 8. The descending portion gives off no branch.