97 THE SKULL THE MORPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL In Man the skull during development passes through three stages. At first the brain vesicles are enclosed in a sac of indifferent tissue which ultimately becomes tough and fibrous. This, the membranous cranium, is represented in the adult by the dura mater. Gradually the sides and base of the membranous cranium become cartilaginous: in due course osseous tissue appears in the membranous tracts, and later in the cartilage. Eventually an osseous box is formed, consisting of membrane-bones and cartilage-bones intricately interwoven. A study of the skull in the chondral stage is very instructive. It consists of two parts : (1) The skull proper; and (2) the appendicular elements. The skuU proper consists of three regions :— The basi-cranial or notochordal region, which ultimately gives rise to the chief parts of the occipital bone. Anterior to this is the trabecular region, from which the sphenoid is subsequently developed. The most anterior portion is the ethmo-vomerine region, from which the nasal septum and its associated cartilages arise. Wedged in on each side between the basi-cranial and trabecular regions is the complicated periotic capsule. The appendicular elements of the cranium are a number of cartilaginous rods, which Fig. 100.—The Chondro-Cranium. undergo a remarkable metamorphosis, and, in the adult, are represented by the ear-bones, 1 the styloid process, and the hyoid. The cbondro-cranium at the third month presents the following parts. Seen from above, the cartilage extends from the cranial base to a spot midway between the base and the vertex, shading oft' indefinitely on the dura mater. The conspicuous oval masses on each side are the periotic cartilages, in which the floccular fossae are conspicuous objects. Each periotic [cartilage is joined to the sphenoid by a strip, termed the sphenotic cartilage, which usually j persists in the adult skull. At this date the cartilage for the orbito-sphenoid (the so-called lesser wing) is co-extensive with the ali-sphenoid, and forms part of the lateral wall of the skuU. The snout-like appearance of the anterior part of the skull is caused by the fronto- nasal plate. On each side of the ethmo-vomerine plate near its anterior termination there are two small concave pieces of cartilage for Jacobson's organ. They are sometimes j referred to as the ploughshare cartilages owing to their shape. j The Metamorphosis of the Branchial Bars These rods of cartilage are named, from before backwards, the mandibular, byoid, and thyroid bars. They may with care be easily dissected in the foetus between the third and fourth months. Their metamorphosis is as follows :— The two extremities of the mandibular bar ossify ; the distal end ultimately forms that H