291 THE TAESO-METATABSAL 4\i dial :'Jiti! ..V3 {h) The Middle Taeso-metataesal Joint Into this union there enter the three cuneiform and second and third metatarsal oones, which are bound together by the following ligaments : dorsal, plantar, inter- Dsseous. The dorsal ligaments.—1. Some short fibres cross obliquely from the outer edge )f the internal cuneiform bone to the inner border of the base of the second meta- tarsal bone ; they take the place of a dorsal metatarsal ligament which is wanting oetween the first and second metatarsal bones. 2. Between the middle cuneiform and the base of the second metatarsal bone 3ome fibres run directly forwards. 3. The external cuneiform is connected with (1) the outer corner of the second netatarsal bone by a narrow band passing obliquely inwards ; (2) with the third metatarsal by fibres passing directly forwards ; and (3) with the fourth metatarsal by a short band passing obliquely outwards to the inner edge of its base. The plantar ligaments.—A strong ligament unites the internal cuneiform and ;he bases of the second and third metatarsal bones. The tibialis posticus is nserted into these bones close beside it. Other slender ligaments connect the niddle cuneiform with the second, and the external cuneiform with the third .netatarsal bones. The interosseous ligaments.—(1) A strong broad interosseous ligament extends Detween the outer surface of the internal cuneiform, and the inner surface of the 3ase of the second metatarsal bone. It is attached to both bones below and in Tont of the articular facets, and separates the middle from the internal tarso- netatarsal joint. (2) A second band is attached behind to a fossa on the anterior md outer edge of the external cuneiform and to the interosseous ligament between it md the cuboid, and passes horizontally forwards to be attached to the whole depth )f the fourth metatarsal bone behind its internal lateral facet, and to the opposed ;urfaces of the third and fourth below their lateral articular facets. It separates the niddle tarso-metatarsal, and intermetatarsal between the third and fourth bones, Tom the cubo-metatarsal joint. It is more firmly connected with the third bone han with the fourth. (3) A slender ligament composed only of a few fibres often )asses from a small tubercle on the inner and anterior edge of the external cunei- 'orm to a groove on the outer edge of the second metatarsal bone between the two ateral facets. The synovial membrane is prolonged forwards from that of the scapho-cunei- orm and intercuneiform articulations. (c) The Cubo-metataesal Joint The bones comprising this joint are the fourth and fifth metatarsal, and the interior surface of the cuboid, firmly connected on all sides by Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous ligaments. The plantar cnbo-metatarsal ligament is a broad, well-marked ligament, which xtends from the cuboid behind to the bases of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones n front. It is continuous along the groove at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ni\i the dorsal ligament, and as it passes round the outer border of the foot it is omewhat thickened, and may be described as the external cnbo-metatarsal ligament. )n its inner side it joins the interosseous ligaments, thus completing the capsule 'Blow. It is not a thick structure, and to see it the long plantar ligament, the 'eroneus longus, and external slip of the tibialis posticus must be removed; the ttachment of these structures to the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones considerably -ssists to unite them with the tarsus, u 2