878 OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE presence of the lamina cribrosa, which consists of a white fibrous tissue frame- work, with small, roundish, light-grey meshes in it, through which latter the nerve- fibre bundles pass. Also near the centre of the disc, the retinal blood-vessels first come into view, the arteries narrower in size and lighter in colour than the veins; they divide dichotomously as they are distributed over the fundus. The retina proper is so transparent as to be ophthalmoscopically invisible, but its pigment- epithelium gives a very finely granular or darkly stippled appearance to the general red reflex. In the centre of the fundus, and therefore to the outer side of the disc, the ophthalmoscope often shows a shifting halo of light playing round a horizontally oval, comparatively dark enclosed area ; this latter corresponds to the yellow spot region, and about its centre a small pale spot usually marks the position of the fovea centralis. Two structures visible at the nasal end of the palpebral aperture have been previously mentioned, and should now be examined more narrowly. The lachrymal caruncle is in reality an island of modified skin, and fine hairs can commonly be detected on its surface. On its outer side, separated from it by Fig. 473.—Left Fundus Oculi, as seen by direct Ophthalmoscopic Method. (After Fiichs.) LAMINA CRIBROSA FOVEA CENTRALIS PIGMENT AT OUTER BORDER OF DISC a narrow groove, is the semilunar fold of conjunctiva; it rests on the eyeball, 1 and is a rudiment of the third eyelid or nictitating membrane, present in birds ij and well represented in many other vertebrates. Examination of the Eyeball The eyeball of a cadaver should now be removed by snipping with scissors the conjunctiva near the corneal border, then cutting through the ocular muscles near their insertion into the globe, and finally dividing the optic nerve close to the sclerotic. The eyeball is almost spherical, but not perfectly so, mainly because its anterior, clear, or corneal segment has a greater curvature than the rest of the eye. Con- sidering it as a globe, however, we speak of an anterior and of a posterior pole ; the former corresponding to the middle of the front of the cornea, the latter to the middle of the posterior curvature. An imaginary straight line joining the two poles is called the antero-posterior or sagittal axis of the eyeball. The equator of the eye is that part of its surface which lies midway between the two poles. The sagittal axis of the globe is the greatest (about 24-5 mm.), the vertical equatorial j the least (about 23*5 mm.), and the transverse equatorial axis is intermediate in length (about 23*9), so that the eyeball is in reality an ellipsoid, flattened shghtly \ from above downwards. Again, if the globe is divided in its antero-posterior vertical i