630 THE ABTEBIES and inwards before sinking into the foot, in the interspace between the flexor brevis digitorum and the abductor minimi digiti, and is here only covered by the skin and superficial fascia, and the plantar fascia. It lies upon the calcaneum, the flexor accessorius, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti. It is accompanied by the external plantar nerve, the smaller of the two divisions into which the posterior tibial nerve divides. In this part of its course it gives off small branches to the contiguous muscles and to the heel. In the second part of its course the artery, which is here known as the plantar arch, sinks into the sole, and is covered, in addition to the skin, superficial fascia, plantar fascia, and flexor brevis digitorum, by the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, the lumbricales, branches of the internal plantar nerve, and the adductor hallucis. It lies upon the proximal ends of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones and the corresponding interosseous muscles. The branches of the external plantar artery are :—(1) Muscular ; (2) calcaneal; (3) cutaneous; (4) anastomotic; (5) articular ; (6) posterior perforating; and (7) digital. (1) The muscular branches of the external plantar are distributed to the contiguous muscles; in the first part of its course to the flexor brevis digitorum, and the accessorius ; as it makes its bend into the sole, to the muscles of the little toe ; and, as it forms the plantar arch, to the interossei, flexor brevis hallucis, and adductor hallucis. (2) The calcanean are two or three small branches which are distributed over the inner surface of the calcaneum, and anastomose with the internal calcanean branch of the posterior tibial artery (fig. 379). (3) The cutaneous pass between the abductor minimi digiti and flexor brevis digitorum, and through the interval between the middle and outer portions of the plantar fascia, to the skin. (4) The anastomotic turn over the outer border of the foot, and anastomose with the tarsal and metatarsal branches of the dorsalis pedis (fig. 381). (5) The articular come oft* from the concavity of the arch, and, running back- wards and upw^ards, are distributed to the articulations of the tarsus. They are homologous to the recurrent branches of the deep palmar arch in the hand, and, like the latter, are usually three in number. (6) The posterior perforating", also three in number, ascend through the proximal end of the second, third, and fourth spaces, between the two heads of origin of the correspondingly named dorsal interosseous muscles, and communicate with the proximal ends of the first, second, and third interosseous arteries (fig. 381). (7) The digital or plantar digital arteries are usually four in number, and are distributed to the inner and outer sides of the third, fourth, and fifth toes, and to the outer side of the second toe. They are named first, second, third, and fourth as they come oft' from the arch from without inwards, and not according to the interosseous space in which they run. The first comes off from the outermost part of the plantar arch, and courses forwards along the outer side of the little toe (figs. 378, 379, 381), over the fifth metatarsal bone and the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles. The second, third, and fourth digitals run forward in the centre of the interosseous spaces on the therein contained interosseous muscles, under cover of the contiguous lumbrical, the short and long flexor tendons, and the transversalis pedis muscle. Near the cleft of the toes they become superficial, and bifurcate for the supply of the contiguous sides of the toes : the second supplying the inner side of the fifth and the outer side of the fourth toe; the third the inner side of the fourth and the outer side of the third toe ; and the fourth the inner side of the third and the outer side of the second toe. The supply of the inner side of the second and both sides of the great toe is derived from the dorsalis pedis through its communicating branch to the plantar