912 OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE I j auditory meatus; and a mucous lining internally derived from the tympanic j cavity. | The fibrous layer consists of two lamellae closely connected—an external, in 1 which the fibres radiate from the handle of the malleus ; and an internal, the fibres | of which are arranged concentrically, and are especially strong at the circumference, i The membrane of Shrapnell is extremely thin, and consists only of the outer | and inner layers, the fibrous layer being absent. I The handle of the malleus descends between the two inner layers, accompanied | by the vessels, which are often clearly visible in the living membrane. i The Tympanic Cavity is irregular in shape, laterally compressed, and communi- ! cates posteriorly with the mastoid antrum and cells. It contains air, which reaches ^ it through the Eustachian tube, and is crossed from without inwards by a chain of j movable bones—the tympanic ossicles—through which vibrations which reach the membrana tympani are conducted to the internal ear. Fig. 498.—Internal View of Eight Membrana Tympani. (Enlarged.) HEAD OF MALLEUS CHORDA TYMPANI NERVE Tendon of tensor tympani HANDLE OF MALLEUS Tensor tympani muscle EUSTACHIAN TUBE The roof, which is about three lines in breadth, is thin, and separates the cavity from the interior of the cranium. The floor is much narrower, but is similarly separated from the jugular fossa. The outer wall is chiefly formed by the membrana tympani, already described, and the bony wall above and below it. The cl'iorda tymimni nerve, which traverses the outer wall, enters by a minute orifice, the aperture of the iter chordeB posterius, and leaves the cavity by the iter chordae anterius, which leads into the canal of Huguier. The Glaserian fissure lies immediately below the latter orifice, but these minute openings are hidden by the mucous lining. The inner wall is vertical, and looks directly outwards; it presents the fenestra ovalis and fenestra rotunda with the intervening grooved promontory, which corresponds to the first turn of the cochlea, and the ridge marking the course of the Fallopian canal, which is traversed by the facial nerve.