THE GBEAT 0JIENTU2I 1039 The place where the bulging takes place is a matter of importance. Originally such part of the meso-gaster is involved in it as extends from the region of the pylorus to about the middle of the fundus of the stomach (fig. 600). In the lower mammals the rudimentary disposition of the great omentum is well seen. Thus in the two-toed anteater it maybe observed in its simplest possible condition. It here takes the form of a slight bag projecting towards the left, and formed solely by that part of the primitive meso-gaster which is nearest to the greater curvature of the stomach. It extends to the right as far as the pylorus. It is quite horizontal. Its greatest depth does not exceed an inch, and its orifice is a wide shallow opening upon the right side of the meso-gaster. In higher mammals—as in some marsupials—the great omentum appears as a loose pendulous open bag, with so large an opening that it could not be termed a foramen. (Fig. 601 shows the great omentum in the kangaroo.) In man and in most of the higher mammals not only is the meso-gaster (M-G, fig. 602, A) involved in the bulging which forms the great omentum, but some part of the transverse meso-colon (m-c) becomes involved also. This depends upon the close connection which exists between the right end of the transverse colon and the duodenum. It will be seen from figs. 600 and 602, A, that but a little Fig. 602.-Formation of Great Omentum as seen in Vertical Section. extension of the bulging of the membrane is needed for the transverse meso-colon to become involved. In such case the anterior layer of the great omentum will appear to come off from the greater curvature of the stomach, while the posterior layer will return to the transverse colon and will become continuous with the meso-colon (figs. 602, C, and 603, A). In the adult man this arrangement usually extends throughout the greater part of the width of the great omentum. It is in all instances to be observed in all that part of the great omentum which is about and to the right of the middle line. In the foetus (as in the lower primates) the posterior layer of that part of the great omentum which is quite to the left of the middle line is clear of the transverse meso-colon, and is obviously derived from the meso-gaster solely (figs. 602, B, and 603, B). This difference between the right and the left extremities of the transverse meso-colon and omentum can sometimes be made out in the adult man. The term ' the lesser cavity of the peritoneum ' is applied to the cavity formed by this protrusion of the peritoneum. The term is of use for descriptive purposes, but it is apt to be misleading if it favours the impression that the general sac of the peritoneum is divided into two perfectly distinct parts. If the diagram (fig. 562), which shows a transverse section of the abdomen at the level of the foramen of Winslow, be examined, it will be seen that the posterior