500 THE ABTEBIES Variations in the Arch of the Aorta The variations that have been met with in the aortic arch are very numerous. Only the chief can be here mentioned. They may be divided into :—1. Variations in the arcli itself; and 2. Variations in the number and arrangement of the three chief branches. The variations in the coronary arteries are described under Coronary Arteries, page 503. (1) Variations in the Aortic Arch itself The variations in the aortic arch itself may for the most part be traced to abnormalities in development of the embryonic structm^es from which the three portions of the arch and the pulmonary arteries and ductus arteriosus are derived, i.e. {a) the primitive ventral aortic stem; (h) the fourth and fifth branchial arches; and (c) the dorsal aortic stems. Fig. 325.—Scheme of the Eelations of the Third Portion of the Arch of the Aorta. {a) Variations dejjending on Abnormalities in Develojpment of the Ventral Aortic Stem These variations are closely associated with abnormalities of the pulmonary artery an heart. They depend upon deficient development of the septum which normally divide the anterior stem into the first portion of the aorta and the pulmonary artery. The follov ing are some of the chief variations :— (1) The aorta and pulmonary artery may arise as a single stem from a simple heari The septum here is completely absent. The condition resembles the normal state in fishe; (2) The aorta and pulmonary artery may be more or less conjoined, and the septum ( the heart incomplete. This is analogous to the normal condition in reptiles. (3) The aorta and pulmonary artery may be transposed. i (4) The aorta or pulmonary artery may be in part obliterated, and the blood carrie into the remainder of the affected vessel through an abnormal opening beyond ttj obliterated part. (5) Variations depending on Ahnormalities in Develojwient of the Fourth | and Fifth Aortic or Branchial Arches (1) The aorta may be double, the normal condition in amphibians, each arch giving ( a corresponding carotid and subclavian artery. This abnormality is explained by tl persistence of the right fourth aortic arch and right descending aortic stem, as well as tj; corresponding parts on the left side. The trachea and oesophagus pass through the arteri circle thus formed. (2) The aortic arch may turn over the right bronchus instead of over the left. This j the normal condition in birds, and is explained by the persistence of the right four aortic arch and right descending aortic stem and the obliteration of the correspond! parts on the left side. (3) The pulmonary artery may be given off from the aorta. This condition is due ; the obliteration of the anterior part of the fifth branchial arch and the persistence of 1 posterior part which normally constitutes the ductus arteriosus. j