THE KNEE JOINT 271 tibia, and moving with the tibia upon the femur. They somewhat deepen the tibial articular surfaces, and are dense and compact in structure, becoming looser and more fibrous near their extremities, where they are firmly fixed in front of and -behind the spine of the tibia. The circumferential border of each is convex, thick, and somewhat loosely attached to the borders of the tuberosities of the tibia by the coronary ligaments, and the reflexion of the synovial membrane. The inner border is concave, thin, and free. Half an inch (1*3 cm.) broad at the widest part, they taper somewhat towards their extremities, and cover rather less than two-thirds of the articular facets of the tibia. Their upper surfaces are slightly concave, and fit on to the femoral condyles, while the lower are fiat and rest on the head of the tibia; both surfaces are smooth and covered by synovial membrane. Fig. 248.—Anterior View of the Knee Joint, showing the Synovial Ligaments. (Anterior portion of capsule with the extensor tendon thrown downwards.) Posterior crucial Ligamentum mvieosiim Alar ligament Synovial'-poueli under ten- don^of quadriceps extensor Alar ligament The external semilunar cartilage (fig. 247) is nearly circular in form and less firmly fixed than the internal, and consequently slides more freely upon the tibia. Its anterior cornu is attached to a narrow depression along the outer articular facet, just in front of the external tubercle of the tibial spine, close to, and on the outer side of, the anterior crucial ligament; a small slip from the cornu is often fixed to the tibia in front of the crucial ligament. The posterior cornu is firmly attached to the tibia behind the external tubercle of the spine, blending with the posterior crucial ligament, and giving off a well-marked fasciculus, which runs up along the anterior border of the ligament to be attached to the femur (ligament of Wrisberg). It also sends a narrow slip into the back part of the anterior crucial ligament. Its outer border is grooved towards its posterior part by the pojjliteus tendon, which is held to it by fibrous tissue and synovial membrane, and separates it from