THE ABTEBIES 492 and opens into the descending aorta just below the origin of the left subclavian artery. After birth, that portion of the pulmonary artery which extends to the aorta becomes obhterated, and remains merely as a fibrous cord. The trunk of the artery with the ductus Botalh was originally the left fifth aortic arch, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve in early foetal life passed below it direct to the larynx. As in the process of development the heart descends into the thorax, and the fifth arch assumes a more vertical direction, it comes to pass that the nerve winds round the transverse portion of the aorta, the fourth aortic arch, and consequently external to the ductus arteriosus (fig. 321). In adult life the cord formed Fig. 317. Anterior View of the Heart with the Large Arteries and Veins. (By permission. Royal College of Surgeons Museum.) Left common Right auperior thyroid vein Right common carotid artery Internal jugular vein Vertebral vein carotid artery Internal jugular vein Left superior | Subclavian vein Inferior thyroid veins Vena azygos major Left vertebral vein External jugular vein Aorta Right piilmonarii Left subclavian vein Left innomJnale vein Left superior intercostal vein DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS Left pulmonary artery and vein LEFT AURICULAR APPENDIX Pulmonary artery LEFT VENTRICLE Vena cava inferior by the obliterated ductus arteriosus arises a little to the left of the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and receives a slight reflexion from the pericardium as it pierces that membrane. It occasionally remains partially unobliterated. Relations.—In front, the trunk of the pulmonary artery is covered^by the first j bone of the sternum, the remains of the thymus gland, and the pericardium (fig. 319). Behind, it lies successively upon the ascending part of the arch of the aorta and the left auricle. i To the right are the ascending aorta, the right auricular appendix, the right j coronary artery, and the cardiac nerves. | To the left are the pericardium, the left pleura and lung, the left auricular appendix, the left coronary artery, and the cardiac nerves.