THE SCAPHOID 111 Ligaments:— Dorsal, plantar, and interosseous cubo-scaphoid. Dorsal and plantar scapho-cuneiform. External and inferior calcaneo-scaphoid. Astragalo-scaphoid. Ossification.—The nucleus for the scaphoid appears in the course of the fourth year. The tubercle of the scaphoid, into which the tibialis posticus acquires its f Imain insertion, occasionally develops separately, and sometimes remains distinct ^ torn the rest of the bone. Fig. 176.—The Left Scaphoid. (Anterior view.) FOR INTERNAL CUNEIFORM INNER BORDER TUBEROSITY FOR TWIDDLE CUNEIFORM OUTER BORDER FOR EXTERNAL CUNEIFORM Fig. 177.—The Left Scaphoid, showing a Facet for the Cuboid. THE CUNEIFORM BONES The cuneiform bones, three in number, are named from within outwards— internal, middle, and external. They are wedge-shaped. The INTERNAL CUNEIFORM is distinguished by its large size, and from the ) fact that, when articulated, the base of the wedge is directed downwards, and the i sharp border upwards. The posterior surface is concave and pyriform for articu- lating with the inner facet of the scaphoid. The anterior surface is a reniform articular facet for the base of the first metatarsal. The internal surface is rough, and presents an oblique groove for the tendon of the tibialis anticus : this groove I is limited inferiorly by an oval facet into which a portion of the tendon is inserted. The external surface is concave and rough, except along the posterior and superior borders. Near the anterior extremity of the superior border there exists a distinct circular facet for the inner side of the base of the second metatarsal. In front of the facet a few fibres of the first dorsal interosseous muscle arise. The remaining sinuous articular facet is for the inner surface of the middle cuneiform. I Articulations.—With the scaphoid, middle cuneiform, and the first and second I metatarsals. Muscles.—Tibialis anticus and posticus, the peroneus longus, and first dorsal interosseous. j Ossification.—A single nucleus, which appears in the course of the third year. I The MIDDLE CUNEIFORM, the smallest of the three, has its base directed i upwards and the sharp border downwards. The posterior concave surface is i N