THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 720 The interpeduncular space is situated between the diverging crura cerebri. It corresponds below to the deepest part of the cisterna pontis, and above to the posterior part of the floor of the thu-d ventricle. It contains (1) the posterior perforated space, and in front of this (2) a pair of white roimded eminences, the corpora albicantia or mammiUaria, and (3) a conical greyish elevation, the tuber cinereum, ending in a thin tubular process, the infundibulum. The latter passes to the pituitary body, from which it is detached in removing the brain by the ordinary method. Immediately in front of the tuber cinereum is the optic commissm-e, from which the optic tracts can be traced for a short distance backwards and outwards, winding round the crura cerebri, and finally disappearing under cover of the temporal lobes. A thin grey lamina, the lamina cinerea, passes from the anterior border of the optic commissure to the commencement of the great longitudinal fissure, where it gains an attachment to the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The crura cerebri appear as two strong flattened bundles of white fibres, which emerge from the anterior border of the pons, and, diverging from one another, pass under cover of the temporal lobes, and are soon lost to view. On each side the third nerve is seen passing between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries. Each nerve springs by a row of filaments from a groove at the inner margin of the crus. The fom^th nerve, a slender rounded fasciculus, winds romid the outer side of the crus. The pons Varolii appears immediately behind the crura as a broad band of white fibres directed transversely, and passing from one cerebellar hemisphere to the other. It narrows on each side as it passes into the cerebelhun. It is marked by a shallow groove in the middle line in which the basilar artery rests. The fifth nerve is seen piercing the side of the pons near its upper border in the form of two bundles, a large posterior or sensory root, and a smaU anterior or motor root, separated from the former by some of the transverse fibres of the pons. The sixth nerves are seen at the lower border of the pons in the groove between it and the medulla, emerging from the latter close to the outer side of the pyramidal bodies or between the fibres of these bodies. The pyramidal and olivary bodies can readily be made out on the medulla, and a portion of the restiform body can also be seen without distiu-bing the parts. The twelfth or hypoglossal nerve emerges by a row of filaments from the groove between the olivary and pyramidal bodies. The ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves, which appear in numerical order from above downwards, arise from the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies; the origin of the eleventh or spinal accessory nerve being continued down the lateral column of the cord. The seventh and eighth nerves are close to the edge of the pons in the angle between the latter and the cerebellum. The cerebellar hemispheres are placed one on each side of the medulla and conceal the occipital lobes of the cerebrum when viewed from the base. The cerebellum stands out conspicuously from the cerebrmn on account of its darker grey colour and the smaller size and narrowness of its convolutions, which are termed folia. Two of its lobes are more prominent than the rest, viz. the amygdalae or tonsils, which are placed close to the medulla, one on each side; and the flocculi, which lie close to the pons above the tenth or pneumogastric nerves. THE CEEEBEAL HEMISPHERES The cerebral hemispheres constitute about 89 per cent, of the entire brain, and viewed from above, present an ovate form, broader behind than in front. They contain the lateral ventricles in their interior. They are separated from one another by the great longitudinal fissure, the floor of which is formed by the corpus callo- sum, a great commissure which connects each hemisphere with its fellow. Each hemisphere presents for examination a supero-external, an inferior, and an internal surface, and two extremities or poles, an anterior and a posterior ; the anterior pole presenting an edge flattened internally and bevelled externally; the posterior forming a blunt rounded point which is directed backwards with an inclination downwards. With the exception of a small portion of the inferior surface, the cerebral hemispheres are entirely covered with fissures or sulci, which mark off intervening elongated elevations termed convolutions or gyri. By this means the surface area of the brain and consequently the proportion of grey to white matter is very greatly increased. The general arrangement of the convolutions in the two hemispheres of the same brain is tolerably symmetrical, but minor differences always occur. These differences are more particularly seen when there is any striking deviation from the normal arrangement, as such abnormalities are usually con- fined to one hemisphere. The supero-external surface is convex, presenting a