215 OF THE SACRUM AND COCCYX The posterior sacro-coccygeal ligament (fig. 209) is a direct continuation of the Dstei'ior common ligament of the column, consisting of a narrow band of closely icked fibres, which become blended at the lower border of the first segment of the )ccyx with the filum terminale and supracornual ligament. The supracornual ligament (fig. 209) is the prolongation of the supraspinous, hich becomes inseparably blended with the aponeurosis of the erector spincB opposite 16 lamina of the third sacral vertebra, and is thus prolonged downwards upon the ack of the coccyx, passing over and roofing in the lower end of the spinal canal >here the laminae are deficient. The median fibres (the supraspinous ligament) xtend over the back of the coccyx to its tip, blending with the posterior sacro- occygeal ligament and filum terminale; the deeper fibres run across from the Fig. 209.—Ligaments connecting Sacrum and Coccyx posteriorly. luperfieial part of tne supraspinous r ligament, turned up Deep part of the supraspinous liga- ment, turned up Intertransverse ligament Lower end of the posterior com- mon ligament Supracornual ligament connecting the eornua of the sacrum and coccyx, cut and turned down stunted laminse on one side to the next below on the opposite side, and from the sacral eornua on one side to the coccygeal on the opposite, some passing between the two eornua of the same side, and bridging the aperture through which the fifth sacral nerve passes. Its posterior surface gives origin to the gluteus maxirims muscle. The intertransverse ligament (fig. 209) is merely a quantity of fibrous tissue I which passes from the transverse process of the coccyx to the laterhl edge of the sacrum below its angle. It is connected with the sacro-sciatic ligaments at their attachments, and the fifth sacral nerve escapes behind it. It is perforated by twigs from the lateral sacral artery and the coccygeal nerve. The arterial supply is from the lateral sacral and sacro-median arteries. The nerves come from the fourth and fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves. The movements permitted at this joint are of a simple forward and backward, or hinge-like character. In the act of defecation, the bone is pushed back by the