732 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM imperfectly separated from the superior parietal lobule. It may also be connected to the hinder end of the marginal convolution by a small gyrus crossing the calloso- marginal fissure. The prsecuneus, or quadrate lobule, is a squarish mass of small gyri which is continuous around the margin of the hemisphere with the superior parietal lobule. It is bounded, in front by the upturned end of the calloso-marginal fissure ; behind, by the parieto-occipital fissure; and it may be marked off below, from the gyrus fornicatus, by the sulcus subparietalis. The cuneus, or cuneate lobule, is a wedge-shaped mass occupying the interval between the internal parieto-occipital and calcarine fissures. It is continuous around the margin of the hemisphere with the superior occipital convolution. In a properly hardened right hemisphere it shows a distinct bevelling near the margin. This is produced by the impression of the superior longitudinal sinus. This bevelling can be traced downwards to the extremity of the lobulus lingualis, and less distinctly forwards to the pr?ecuneus. In rare instances it may be seen in the left hemisphere instead of the right. Two sagittally directed convolutions are situated on the tentorial surface. They are termed the superior and inferior occipito-temporal convolutions. The superior of these is divided into an anterior part called the uncinate gyrus, and a posterior part which is known as the lobulus lingualis. The uncinate convolution commences behind at the isthmus, by which it is continuous with the gyrus fornicatus, and ends immediately behind the anterior perforated space in a hook-like elevation, the uncus. It is separated from the dentate convolution by the dentate fissure, and is marked off' from the inferior occipito-temporal convolution by the collateral fissure and, in front of this, by the incisura temporalis. The outer part of the anterior end is marked by a distinct groove, which, as it is produced by the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli, may be called the tentorial groove (fig. 411). The uncinate convolution is covered with a peculiar fine network of white fibres, the substantia reticularis alba. These fibres are derived from the strise longitudinales laterales which pass from the splenium of the corpus callosum on to the isthmus, and from thence to the micinate gyrus. The dentate convolution or fascia dentata will be more conveniently described with the anatomy of the lateral ventricle, as it is usually dissected in connection with that cavity. The lobulus lingualis is the posterior part of the superior occipito-temporal convolution. It is bounded by the calcarine and parieto-occipital fissures above, and by the collateral fissure below. As the internal occipital border crosses this lobule it divides it into two parts, an upper part which appears on the mesial surface, and a larger lower portion situated on the tentorial surface. The inferior occipito-temporal convolution extends from the apex of the temporal lobe to the occipital pole of the hemisphere. It is bounded above by the collateral fissure, and below by the inferior temporal and inferior occipital fissures. It is marked by the impressio petrosa at the junction of its anterior and middle thirds. Three distinct impressions, which lie in a line with one another, are produced on the brain by the petrous portion of the temporal bone. One of these (fig. 410, n) corresponds to the portion of bone opposite the confluence of the superior petrosal with the lateral sinus. Another, the impressio petrosa, which may be large and conspicuous, is caused by the prominence of the superior semicircular canal. The third impression (incisura temporalis) is situated near the vallecula Sylvii, about one-third of an inch external to the tentorial groove. FALCIFORM LOBE; LIMBIC LOBE.—The falciform lobe is the name proposed by Schwalbe for the portion of the cerebral surface which cannot be satisfactorily relegated to any of the five lobes above described. Its separation as a distinct lobe depends more upon considera- tions based upon comparative anatomy and embryology than upon any indications afforded