1032 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION between them runs the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. The great loop beyond this neck will form the small intestine, the caecum, and the ascending colon. The descending colon retains its simple connections with the median line (fig. 593). The mesentery does not increase in the same proportion as the intestines gro\v,j and hence the bowel is thrown into innumerable convolutions. In the humanj subject the increase in the breadth of the mesentery is somewhat more noteworthy} than its increase in length. | There is a time, then, when the great mass of the intestine is supported by a! simple but extensive mesentery, which is entirely free, and which is attached behindj by means of a narrow neck bounded by the duodenum and the right end of thej transverse colon, and through w^hich the superior mesenteric artery runs. j The great intestinal loop projects at first anteriorly and mesially. The small' intestine is above, the large intestine below (figs. 593, 595). I As the coils of bowel become more fully developed, it will be seen that all the; small intestines lie to the right hand side, and the caecum and the commencement' of the colon to the left. The vasa intestini tenuis of the superior mesenteric^ artery consequently arise from the right side of the vessel, while the ileo-colic, righti colic, and middle colic all arise from the left (fig. 593). Fig. 595.—Alimentary Canal of Salamandra maculosa. Further development in this direction may not proceed, and the condition above described is met with in some of the lower mammals as a permanent arrangement (fig. 596). The rotation of the intestinal canal.—As development proceeds, the plates which are forming the anterior abdominal parietes approach one another, and the closure! of the cavity of the abdomen is imminent. The loops which have up to this time projected beyond the site of the future umbilicus are now withdrawn into the abdomen. About this time a remarkable and quite characteristic rotation of the general mesenteric fold takes place. The rotation is from left to right, and is around an; axis which may be represented by a line drawn from the neck or pedicle of the common mesentery to the site of the vitelline duct. This is in fact the line of the superior mesenteric artery (fig. £93). The rotation is therefore at the neck of: -the great and complex loop of intestine, which neck, as has been already said, is bounded by the duodenum and the right end of the transverse colon. \ As a result of this rotation, the caecum and the ascending colon turn over to \ the right, while the great mass of the small intestines is brought to the left (fig. 597).; The lower end of the duodenum will be consequently carried to the left; the j transverse colon will lie in front of it instead of below it; and the superior mesen-!