482 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Lady Jessel, for the marriage of her daughter, Miss Florence Jessel, with Mr. Stern, is one of the most successful attempts yet made in decorative sugar. In addition to the most elaborate decorations of the usual character, the main subject of the cake embraced architecture, human figure, and animal modelling, and many descriptions of natural foliage. The centre subject, which was chosen by the bride, represents the Biblical incident of the meeting of Rebekah and Abraham's servant at the well. In the foreground stands the well, with camel trough by the side, Rebekah and Abraham's servant as in the picture by Horace Vernet, Rebekah represented in the act of lowering her pitcher on her wrist and giving him to drink, according to his request. On the right, his camel stands on an inclined way, drinking from the trough, and held loosely in a leading rope by the camel driver. On the left, coming under a high-domed temple and archway, are two maidens with pitchers on their shoulders, evidently coming to draw water. One is represented as drawing the attention of her companion to the fact that Rebekah is talk- ing to a stranger, and the other with her hand shading her eyes,—suggestive of a glaring sun, is trying with natural feminine curiosity, to see whom the stranger may be. Through and past the archway is seen a camel, laden with presents, and going up the sloping rocky way, and being stimulated in his progress by his driver. Further up the path, or travelling way, another camel also loaded with bag- gage, is in a kneeling position, and lazily munching at a tuft of long grassy plant, seeming to enjoy a well earned rest, under the shade of several varieties of luxuriant palm trees; while his driver, sitting on a jutting piece of rock also rests himself, with his legs crossed and hands on knee, the rock- work being nearly covered with tropical plants. Height of cake, 5 feet, weight, 2 cwt."—B. & F, Confectioner. This reminds me that at a Private Dinner, the decorations