TABLE DECORATIONS, ETC. 4/1 the uniformity yet variedness of the floral decorations, I will describe. The table was horseshoe in form. It was de- corated entirely with crimson and white roses, buds and ferns. To every lady guest was placed in a ruby-coloured solitaire flower-glass a half-blown white rose, a bud and a spray of Adianthum. To the gentlemen, in white vases were red roses half-blown, with a spray or two of scented verbena. The centre epergne of flowers was arranged in four tiers and an upright vase for a single flower in the centre, a very dark ruby coloured rose was selected for this, being the only one we had for the cut flowers, next and the smallest row con- sisted of half-blown scarlet and white roses, almost buds, with maiden-hair fern drooping over the roses like plumes of feathers. The next tier was of red and white roses of a larger size, but not the largest, interspersed with small ferns, various kinds, the next tier was moss, in which pure white full blown roses were nestled, sprays of fern leaning against the centre shaft were attached by wetting the backs of the fronds with a little warm, dissolved gela- tine, and pressing them on to the centre stalk of the glass at once, a drop or two will be sufficient, and I have seen paste used for this purpose. The lower tier has large lady ferns attached in the same way to the centre stalk, then full blown scarlet roses, the deeper colour to the outer edge of the plateau, as also the darker shades of ferns and mosses. The smaller epergnes on either side were dressed with red roses, the next and taller ones were arranged as at the centre of the horse shoe with trails of ivy hanging down from them, and clustering round the centre stalk; significant of the friendship of the guests to the host. Smaller bouquets arranged in baskets, the handles decorated with ivy, rose- buds, and small fern sprays, twined on with cerise and white ribbon crossing each other, and knots of parti-coloured red and white finished off' the bindings at each side, the colour