HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 291 day, so that it may rest in the self produced liquor. The rubbing is best done by a young apprentice, and the hands should be washed first in hot and then in cold water, before rubbing. The meat must be rubbed, in and on every part, and an elder cook should superintend, whilst the boy*s small fingers and palm, work in the mixture for quite an hour at a time. For the rest, after the meat, say 15 lbs. to 20 lbs., has been duly pickled, lift it out, wipe it dry. Stitch a ham cover, i, e, coarse linen cover; making it in a compact firm shape. Drive a strong staple into a biscuit or apple barrel, at one end, pass a wire round the beef, and fix it to the staple. Put on an earthen, or stone floor, 1 quart of oak sawdust, light a charcoal fire, and put the sawdust over, or ignite with a red hot poker. Put 2 small flat stones close together at one side. Invert the barrel so that the beef hangs over the fire, or rather smouldering sawdust, with just the inch of space given by the stones to admit the air and cause the fire to keep burning, supply it with fresh fuel night and morning for 3 to 6 days, according to size of joint. Leave it the following day to cool, and then press for 3 days under heavy weights, and hang up. When wanted for use, grate ; if it is for foreigners, who like the natural flavour. English people I believe hoil and therefore spoil the meat before grating. If boiled, press after in a screwpress, or with heavy weights. A small quantity at a time should be cooked. But it is far more delicate fresh from the smoking, when of course it is cooked by the heat of the charcoal and oak sawdust. Remove the linen cover, after smoking, and if not for immediate use, sew the meat in a clean bag of fine linen. Some people wash the beef over with lime wash. This keeps the air out, and prevents it turning rusty; but it is apt to rot the canvass. I find that if the meat is dipped in melted paraffin wax, after smoking, it keeps well, and is fresh, sweet and wholesome at