4 So THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. a few drops of strong acid stirred in while it is liquid, greatly improves the quality and appearance of the goods. The mutton fat is melted, acid being used as before, say you wish to form it into a tree, there are various methods for so doing. Take a large drawing of a tree (bare branches), trace it out on a sheet of fat while it is still pliable. You can then very easily mould the trunk and the branches separately and join, graving them with similar tools to those used in leather work. The wax is such as is used for the manu- facture of wax flowers, can be had at any large artists* stores, and the model of the trunk of the tree, being made in the mutton fat, it can be easily clothed or coated with any shade of green, brown, or whatever is necessary to make it as true to nature as possible. Again, distemper colours mixed in glue-size and kept hot while painting, will permit of any colours being painted on the mutton fat. Ivory trees and mock ivory carvings, such as dummy caskets, boxes, small fancy balls, anything of the sort can be made if the artist only has sufficient knowledge and practice to invest his work with artistic merit. I can not impress too earnestly upon English Chefs the necessity of training their apprentices at an early period to the work of carving. Begin on carrots, turnips, corks and fowl bones, as the apprentices are trained abroad. The reason so many foreign Chefs are employed in our country is simply because they have been practically taught more artistic work, such as carving, gilding pastry, the uses of gold and silver leaf, groupings of figures, if those figures are only penny toys and silver sand, with a few odd turnips and carrots for them to manipulate into little scenes. Tiny boats made of odd pieces of wood, sails of spare pieces of calico and ropes of twine that as likely as not have been used in cooking, are all put into the juvenile's hands, and on his manipulation of these it is judged whether he will turn out well in his profession or not. In our leading cookery