HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 289 it into a strong jelly, (or use gelatine and caramel). Mask the birds in this entirely, and leave them till wanted. It fact glaze them as you would a tongue. Dress the snipe, by roasting the birds, basting with butter. Cook the trails as you prepared those of the woodcocks. Divide the egg mixture equally, and put some into each bird. When the birds are cold commence to form the trophy. Cream butter, season it with a little lemon juice, and white pepper. When it is sufficiently beaten up divide it into three parts. One part plain and self coloured, or if too pale a little carrot or saffron colouring to intensify the yellow. Colour part two, red with cochineal. Part three, colour with parsley juice, (or prepared vegetable colouring) worked in. Put these in fine thread cornets and pipe the birds in devices. The simplest are cross bars of yellow and red, with green dots on the corners of the squares or in the centre, and so on, varying the barring and dots. The more experienced in piping, can trace out scrolls, leaves, and a variety of pretty heraldic and other devices, that will give the dish a noble style and appearance. Leave the snipes quite plain, and if they are well roasted they will look very handsome in relief from the ornamentation, serving as a foil. Drape the dish on the edge with dark sprays of endive, shading towards the heart leaves as it comes to the centre. Take pickled barberry sprays, and arrange them at intervals amongst it. Also half quarters of pickled lemon and orange, (see page 402,) cranberries, and mountain ash berries pickled. Shade the colours from the barberries to the lemon as you have shaded the endive. Then commence to build the trophy of birds in the centre. A sort of salad mixture will form a rest to the novice, but try and fix them without. Dip the brush in strong almost set glaze, yet not too cold, touch each bird with this as you put it upright in place, and it will cause it to adhere to its fellows, and tho