19 from the state of liealtli—wliiit was the train of disturbances which followed from this, and to distinguish these from such as may have arisen during the progress of the disease, and are therefore to be considered as complications super-induced upon tlie original malady. It is by the exercise of a dis- criminating power such as this, that the difficulties of com- plex cases are cleared up. Nothing short of it can furnish an adequate basis on which to found a consistent and rational plan of treatment. I need not call your attention to the close connexion which subsists between xVnatomy and practical surgery; it is so generally known and admitted, that it is no longer necessary to insist on it. The importance of physiology to the surgeon may not, at first sight, appear so manifest. Still, when we trace back the history of the progress of surgery, (and no useful art has made more decided ad- vances than it has done even of late years,) we find that several of its improvements have flowed from a better knowledge, not merely of the structure of parts, but of their vital properties. In fact, an improved knowledge of structure could only lead to better methods of operating, or to the construction of better instruments. But these form only a part—a small part of a surgeon's acquirement. He may possess all the dexterity necessary to execute, with precision, any operation, but may still be unsuccessful in the results of his practice ; because he may not possess the discretion necessary to select the proper time for operating, or to adopt such a course of preparatory treatment as would place patients in a favourable condition; and still more, perhaps, because he may not know how to treat those serious constitutional disturbances which arise after surgical operations. But these are pathological questions, and, in a manner, beside our immediate purpose, which is to shew, that experimental physiology has contributed to the ad- vancement of surgery. Experiment shewed that a limb could maintain not only its life, but all its powers undi- minished even after the main current of its blood had been cut off;—experiment proved that tlie minute vessels of