11 he collected together all the conditions of the problem to be solved, and his mind was prepai-ed to draw just inferences from adequate data. This is the line of investigation,—tliis is the only course of inquiry which ever can lead to a know- ledge of the laws of life, or of the functions of the animal economy. For " the basis of our physiological researches becomes broader and deeper, in proportion as our survey of living beings is more extensive. The varieties of structure they present, furnish most important aids of analogy, com- parison, and various combination; and the nature of the process receives, at each step, fresh elucidation." It was the full appreciation of these principles that induced Mr. Hunter to extend his researches through every province of Nature's kingdom; from each he gleaned contributions, and stored them in that great treasury of knowledge which he left behind him—a lasting memorial of unwearied izeal, comprehensive views, and intimate acquaintance with natu- ral science. It is not too much to say of it, that it is the noblest temple ever raised to science by the unaided exer- tions of any single individual. When we follow in the steps of this great master, when, after his manner, we compare the humblest form of animated thing with that which is highest in the scale of being,—the simplest with that which is most complex in its structure and perfect in its organization, we perceive, even at a glance, the vast distance which separates them. At one end of this great chain of being, we find a multitude of living things, so sim- ple in their structure, that they exhibit no function save one —nutrition; no power save one—that of continuing of their species. At the other is Man, greatly pre-eminent over all the rest by his many and high endowments. Between the two extremes are placed multitudes of groups, presenting every variety of form and size, of character and condition, but which, when classed and arranged, are found to constitute a uniform series, each like the links of a chain, being connected with the group above it and that below it, and so forming a continued line from the highest to the lowest. To ascend.