17 siology, on which we are now about to enter. Perhaps it may appear to some that I am presenting to you a field too extensive—subjects too numerous. Were I to narrow it to a more restricted limit, or reduce it to a lower level, I should not do justice to the subject, to this University, or to you. No department of knowledge has advanced more rapidly, even within a few years, than this has done, more particularly as it is taught in the schools. From Mr. Hunter's time until within ten or fifteen years, it made but little progress amongst us; which cannot excite surprise, when it is recollected that instead of being encouraged, it was discountenanced—instead of being promoted, it was left to struggle with accumulated difficulties. Elsewhere a dif- ferent course was pursued, and with the best results. New facts were discovered, new principles evolved, and the ad- vance of this branch of enquiry has been made to keep pace with that of the kindred sciences. Its literature has been enriched by numerous additions; contributions have flowed into it from various quarters. Comparative anatomy has lent it all the aid of illustration,—Zoology, of extended views,— Chemistry, of minute research,—Physiology, of experi- mental enquiry: from all it has received light, to each it gives back a reflected influence; and so by a combination of eff'orts, it has become the index and the register of all the improvements which are being made in every depart- ment of Natural Science. When we come to examine the connexion which subsists between Anatomy and Physiology and the Healing Art, we find it so intimate, and the relations so many, that they must be considered not as merely important branches of its study, but as essential requisites even in ordinary practice. The object of Medicine is to preserve health, and to alle- viate or cure disease. Health and disease are but different states of the same individual—opposing conditions in which we occasionally find him. Now, to devise means by which to preserve the one and avert the other, obviously requires that we should know on what each state depends,—what B