8 different branches of science, with some closely and di- rectly, with others it has but a secondary relation; and as we proceed in our enquiries, we necessarily pause to make references to them. For instance, when we proceed to an examination of the organs of locomotion—those by which we move from place to place, and execute various actions— we find ourselves at once engaged in questions connected with the science of Mechanics ; for we have to consider the force of moving powers, the properties of levers, and the relative advantages of levers of different orders in particular circum- stances. And in the whole range of philosophical research, there is scarcely any subject which presents more to in- terest the enquiring mind, than the varied phenomena of muscular action. It is obvious that the condition of every living thing is influenced by external agencies. The air which we breathe, the food which we take, the heat and light to which we are exposed, exert sensible effects on our system; and when we enquire into the nature of these effects, we must in the first place become acquainted with the properties of those subtile agencies by which they are produced. The study of the organs of sense and of their functions, also presupposes some acquaintance with the physical sciences. The theory of vision, for instance, would be altogether unintelligible without a knowledge of the properties of light. To reason on the use of the different parts of the eye,—to understand the influence which they exert on the rays of light which pass through them, requires an acquaintance with the laws, according to which light is transmitted through bodies which are transparent, reflected by those which are opaque, and bent out of its course, or refracted by the different media through which it passes. On the same principle, the study of the mechanism of hearing requires a knowledge of the properties of sounding bodies, of the mode of production of sound, and the laws of its transmission. So that as we proceed with our physiological studies, we are gradually introduced to an acquaintance with the science of Mechanics, of Optics, and Acoustics.