21 sician's life, like that of the Roman pontiffs, should be di- vided into three periods;—in the first he should learn the duties of his office; in the second perform them; in the third prepare others to succeed him in his functions, by communi- cating to them the requisite information. The first period, that of study, you are now about to enter on. I am aware that many of those I now address have been already initiated in a considerable part of their professional duties during their private education—the public and academical educa- tion is that which is alluded to. The time allotted to it is confessedly short, considering the nature of the duties for which it is a preparative : and as every one must be aware that his future prospects and professional character will alto- gether depend on the preparation which is now made, it is not too much to say that the period which intervenes between the present hour and the time of departure to your various destinations, is the most important of your lives. This, period, then, is to be sedulously devoted to general, and pro- fessional acquirement—general acquirement being as neces- sary to maintain yoiu- proper rank in society, as professional acquirement is to enable you discharge your duty with credit to yourselves and satisfaction to those who commit them- selves to your care. Connected as medical men are with every grade in the community, they cannot possibly maintain that position to which their profession entitles them, unless they are generally well-informed persons. For the rank which is held by professional men, is not supported by pre- scription or by privilege; it depends on public opinion, and can be sustained only by acquirement and knowledge. If on examination they be found deficient in these, no matter to what extraneous aids they may trust—no matter to what expedients they may resort, nothing can support them in their present position ; they must fall to a lower level, and sink, perhaps irretrievably sink, in public estimation. To acquire the knowledge necessary for these various purposes, is the end and aim of your present pursuits. And I. confidently trust that your expectations, and those of your