•20 such a limb, wlien the additional current is thrown upon them, can not only enlarge by distension, but also become strengthened by an increased nutrition, so as to withstand the increased pressure which they have to sustain;—experi- ment, in the next place, shewed that when a ligature is tied roimd a vessel, it is nearly cut through, (one layer of it only remaining to resist the force of the blood)—and, finally, experiment clearly demonstrated that this division of the coats of the vessel, so far from exposing to risk, is the best means of safety, by inducing a rapid imion of the sides of the vessel. Now, when we retrace the improvements which have taken place in the treatment of diseases and injuries of arteries, and find that they have gone on, step by step, and concurrently with improvements in the knowledge of the properties of vessels, we shall see conclusive evidence that Surgery (in that department of it in which it boasts the greatest advancement in modern times) is indebted for that advance to experimental Physiology. These are a few of the many applications which may be made of anatomy and physiology to practical medicine and surgery. As we proceed in our course, from day to day, additional instances shall be cited,—for facts and inference, practice and theory, should always go hand in hand, and be presented concurrently. These are the portals to Medi- cine — and Medicine, I trust, will be to you a passport to advancement and distinction. Few pursuits, perhaps none, hold out a fairer prospect of attaining these desirable ends, than yours does, and by legitimate means too. Power and influence may perhaps at times bestow place—they cannot give character; patronage may raise to distinction—it can- not confer credit on its favourites, or set the seal of currency on their pretensions. No; personal character is the only introduction that can be trustedto,—professional acquirement the only means of advancement that can be relied on,— probity and truth the only auxiliaries whose aid need be invoked. These have seldom failed in any profession ; in medicine they are less likely to do so than in any other. It was a favourite saying of Dr. Ilebberden, that a phy-