10 it treats of eacli part witli special reference to the corres- ponding structures in the human body. Still it must be con- fessed that it has not hitherto received amongst us that degree of attention which it merits. Elsewhere, its import- ance and utility have been fully appreciated, and adequate elforts have been made to promote and advance it, by esta- blishing professorships, delivering systematic courses of in- struction, and forming zoological collections. It is gratify- ing to perceive, however, that of late a taste has been gradually springing up, and an interest is beginning to be felt for this pursuit. The heads of this institution have taken the most efficient means to promote and foster it, by founding a professorship expressly for its cultivation. From this arrangement much is to be expected; many of those who engage in the study of Human Anatomy, as part of their professional education, will, I make no doubt, extend their enquiries farther, and seek to become acquainted with Comparative Anatomy, not merely as a matter of curiosity, but for the valuable information which may be derived from it. It may not be altogether beside our purpose to observe, that Dr. Jenner's first introduction to public notice, was by his acquaintance with Natural History. It was the study of zoology, and the spirit of observation and research which it fostered, that suggested to his mind the course of enquiry which led him on to the discovery which has immortalized his name, and conferred such lasting benefit on mankind. The discerning mind of Mr. Hunter, too, led him, at a very early period of his career, to appreciate the importance of this pursuit. He began with the study of human ana- tomy. A knowledge of the structure of diff'erent parts, naturally prompted him to inquire into their functions. But, as he had before him the organs as they exist in one animal only, he felt that he did not possess the information neces- sary to arrive at just conclusions; he, therefore, proceeded to investigate their conformation in the different classes of animals, from the highest to the loM^est. By these means