REPORT ON SURGERY. 250 this patient was operated on again with considerable relief, the urethral aperture being limited to the width of the urethral groove of raucous membrane. With some difficulty the fiuger could be passed into the bladder, when the edge of the dartos could be felt contracting like a sphincter. When the patient was lying down an accumulation of urine took place to the extent of two table-spoonfuls contained in the dish- like curve of the hinder wall of the bladder, and held in by the trans- planted tissues acting like a lid to the dish. On rising from the recum- bent posture and putting the abdominal muscles into action, the urine becomes expelled with a sort of gush. Erections of the deformed penis, with emission of semen and even procreation have occurred. The penis has been covered close up to (and sometimes over) the glans by a hood of skin very contractile and accommodating. The author hopes that in a little while an india-rubber ring may be worn so as to close up the urethra, until a fitting occasion arises for the evacuation of the bladder. As regards the origin of these cases, the author supports the view that they are due to arrest of development. He says that in an ovum described and figured by Coste, belonging to the second period of development (between the ioth and 20th days after conception), and in another, from Wagner, of about the 21st day, both given in Baly's translation of Miiller's 'Physiology' (ii,figs. 220 and 222), the allaniois sac is found just as it begins to be attached to the chorion to form the umbilical cord. Its outer or amnionic layer (vascular layer of Von Baer, in which are afterwards formed the umbilical arteries, and which forms the sheath of the funis), is seen in both these specimens to be continuous with the edges of the fissure in the yet imperfectly closed abdominal wall. In the inside of this is an inner cylindrical portion (constituting the mucous layer of Von Baer), which is prolonged down into the pelvic cavity, where it is continuous with the end of the intes- tine, and is connected with the lower part of the Wolffian body, from which it seems to be originally developed. This union with the intestine afterwards forms the common cloacal cavity persistent in some of the lower animals, which, according to Tiedemann, opens externally about the fifth or sixth week. By arrest of development at this stage originate those extreme cases of deformity in which the bowels open on the exposed bladder or urethra, or the ureters open into the rectum. In the normal course of development the rectum and anus become separated from the ducts of the urinary and genital organs and a common sinus uro- genitalis, is then found into which open the Wolffian ducts, the ureters and the efferent ducts of the generative apparatus. From this is after- wards differentiated the bladder, urachus and urethra on the one hand; and the prostate and its appendages, or the uterus and vagina on the other. If, at this stage, an arrest occur in the growth of the outer abdominal or amnionic layer of the allantois only, the result at birth would be Ectopia vesica?, i.e., defect of abdominal wall only. If, how- ever, the deeper layer be affected then there would be a more or less complete condition of epispadias, an open or imperfect urachus, or a completely fissured and extroverted bladder with separation of the pelvic bones, and other changes associated with that deformity. At the time of birth the hypogastric surface of the foetus is usually found