ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT. 197 It happens that tliore were twelve cases of amputation of the arm in each period. In the first, one half of them died ; in the second, only one. Of the six, four died of pyaomia, and one of hospital gangrene. The one death in the second period took place " in spite of the operation, not as a residt of it, from pyoomia, which resulted from fetid suppura- tion in a metacarpal bone, and continued after I had removed the hand, in the faint hope that the constitutional mischief might be thrown off"," In one case only did pyaemia result after amputation of the lower limb, after amputation at the knee-joint, in a young man, where putrefaction occurred from mismanagement. Here the symptoms presented them- selves during life, and the femoral vein was found loaded with pus on dissection. "I do not wish to be understood as implying that it (putrefaction) can always be avoided in stumps. In the present state of surgical practice this is far from being the case. When sinuses exist in connection with a diseased joint, putrefaction is pre- sent in them at the outset; and even if they are injected with an antiseptic solution before the operation, it can never be certain that the liquid penetrates to every recess of these often complicated pas- sages, or destroys the vitality of the putrefactive organisms lurking, perhaps, in portions of lymph or slough." " It is, I suspect, for want of bearing this point in mind, that disappointment has often been ex- perienced in applying antiseptic treatment to amputations and excisions. The full possible benefits of the system can never be obtained in such cases till it shall be deeply impressed upon the profession and the public that]abscesses, more especially those in connection with diseased joints, must never either be allowed to break of themselves or be opened with- out antiseptic precautions. The practice which I have found to answer best in amputations and excisions in parts affected with sinuses is, after injecting the sinuses with a powerful antiseptic, to apply to the cut surface a pretty strong solution of chloride of zinc (say, forty grains to the ounce), as recommended by Mr. Campbell de Morgan, and then employ an external antiseptic dressing, in the hope, though never in the certainty, that putrefaction will be prevented. Chloride of zinc having the peculiarity of producing a remarkably persistent antiseptic effect upon the cut surface, protects it during the dangerous period preceding granulation, when the recently divided tissues are both sensi- tive and prone to absorption, so that, even if putrefaction does occur, the risk of inflammation and pyaemia is greatly diminished." "I am satisfied that the difficulties of the antiseptic management (as applied to the lower limb) are not insuperable." " One of the cases requires more notice. It belonged to a class of injuries in which the benefits of the antiseptic treatment have been conspicuously apparent, namely severe contused wounds of the hands and feet, such as are very fre- quent iu a great centre of manufacture like Glasgow. Formerly there were no injuries more unsatisfactory to deal with. The uncertainty of the extent of the damage inflicted by the contusion maoe it a most perplexing question where amputation should be performed." "It is an unspeakable satisfaction to be able to avoid amputation altogether in such cases, merely taking away such portions aa may be actually destroyed, and leaving the weakened tissues in the