458 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. less than this. ,3. These symptoms are due to a direct action of atropia on the medulla {oblongata and sjrinalis). 4. The differences between the paralytic and convulsive symptoms that occur in frogs and those that occur in mammals may be explained by the greater susceptibility of the former to the action of a paralysing agent, and by the amount of para- lysing action being greater in the case of atropia than the amount of convulsant action. 5. The different symptoms that are produced by different doses of atropia in mammals of the same species may be explained by its paralysing being greater than its convulsant action. 6. The paralysing and convulsant actions of atropia can be imitated in both frogs and mammals by the combination of a paralysing with a convulsant substance. These experiments throw a new light on the causation of some of the symptoms of atropia, and also of many other substances whose action like that of atropia produces a combination of paralytic and convulsive symptoms ; and they form a valuable contribu- tion to scientific toxicology. Camphor.—A case of poisoning by this substance is related,* in which seventy-six grains were given to a child suffering from a mild attack of enteric fever. The symptoms were, lividity of the countenance, efforts at vomiting, cold perspirations, convulsions, immobility, stupor, and retention of urine. These last for six hours, and then recovery took place. Coffee was administered as an antidote. Conia.—Herrn Verigof draws the following conclusions from his experiments upon conia : — 1. Conia acts chiefly and most energetically upon the spinal cord, in which it affects by preference the motor fila- ments, a. This action manifests itself in frogs by paralysis without a trace of convulsions, independently of the dose of the poison; in mam- mals, on the contrary, with large and fatal doses, strong convulsions are almost constantly set up, whilst with small and non-fatal doses there is only paralysis of the extremities. 3. The paralysis extends from the spinal marrow to the peripheral system of motor nerves, which then become affected for the first time. 4. According to all ap- pearances the brain is but little affected. 5. The sensory nerves are but little affected by it. 6, In small doses, conia diminishes the rapi- dity of the respiration; in large doses it may entirely paralyse this. This arises, not, as Kolliker supposes, from an affection of the peripheral nerves, but from paralysis of the cord. 7. The convulsions induced in mammals by conia are apparently a certain sign of the fatal termination of the poisoning. They form a distinct feature in the poisoning, and are independent of paralysis of respiration. 8. The blood undergoes no apparent changes; at all events, the corpuscles do not lose their property of absorbing oxygen. 9. Conia exerts no direct action on the heart and pulse. 10. The temperature of the body falls in proportion to the severity of the paretic symptoms. The action on the pupil is variable. 11. Conia acts more powerfully and more speedily when in- jected into a vein than when it is taken internally or injected beneath the skin. After these two latter modes of injection the action is pre- cisely alike. 12. Conia has no action in the quality or quantity of the * «Bull, de Ther.,' lxxvi, p. 379. t 'Deut. Zeitschr. f. Staatsarznk,' xxviii, p. 213.