MORBUS ADDISONII. S9 deposit of pigment often accompanies scleriasis, argues that the extent anil character of the discoloration and its connection with the other well-known signs described by Addison and subsequent observers, prove that morbus Addisonii, as a clinical combination of symptoms, may be associated with healthy suprarenal bodies and sympathetic. The cause of the symptoms he finds in depression, trouble, or other mental affec- tion, acting on the formation of pigment, and setting up the anaemia, pain, muscular weakness, &c. The disorder is only, he thinks, con- nected with an affection of the supra-renal bodies, in the same way as hysteria may be with organic disease of the uterus; and he would define morbus Addisonii to be a neurosis or functional disturbance of the entire nervous system. Hertz (' Virch. Arch.,' xlix, s. 4) publishes a case of advanced dege- neration of the supra-renal bodies without bronzing of the skin, in a man aet. 68, who had caught cold, and suffered from quartan ague, cough, and diarrhoea. Admitted into hospital in May, 1869. He was pale; his temperature was normal; his pulse small and soft, moderately fre- quent ; urine normal, slight dulness of right apex, pains in back and limbs, but no paralysis ; worn with fever, precordial pains and vomiting, he died in a state of collapse a week after admission. At the autopsy, the body was not emaciated; rigor mortis strong; no discoloration of skin or mucous membrane, except from dirt and a few ecchymoses. Vessels and nerves of brain normal; serum in subarachnoid space of cord; the latter and its dura mater finely injected and oedematous ; the microscope showed nothing abnormal. The lungs, pleurae, and pericar- dium were normal, except for some emphysema, and slight old pleuritic adhesions. Ecchymoses existed on the surface of the heart and among its muscular fibres, which were to some extent in a state of fatty dege- neration ; the heart was otherwise normal. The rete Malpighii was normal, without pigment; there was no ascites. The peritoneum, stomach, and intestines were healthy, excepting slight injection of jeju- num and ileum, with swollen solitary follicles and mesenteric glands; but no tubercle or ulceration. The kidneys were healthy; there was no increase in the white blood-cells. The right supra-renal body was 4i cm. long by 3 broad and 2 thick; the left was 5 cm. by 4 and 3. On section they consisted of a firm, dense, gristly, whitish, homogeneous substance, in which were scattered numerous yellow deposits, some firm, some softened, some reaching the size of peas: one was calcareous. There was no distinction between cortical and medullary substance. The solar plexus was enclosed in very red dense fibrous tissue; this wa.s made up of connective fibres and oval or spindle-cells. The nerve- fibres were normal, the ganglion-cells full of granular pigment, but no oil-globules (so Bartsch, 'De Morbo Addisonii,' tS6j, p. 24, only he looked upon them as fat). Hardened sections showed the homogeneous substance to consist of dense connective-tissue fibres, and corpuscles (fusiform and stellate), with some scattered round or oval, shining, gelatinous (colloidartig) bodies, a number of cells about -012 mm. pre- cisely resembkng Recklinghausen's migratory cells, and free nuclei. Some of the normal loculi of the organ with the contained corpuscles were found here and there, but several contained as well colloid masses