GANGRENE OV THE PENIS. ■1G\ compressible; the breathing accelerated, sometimes anxious. It is not rare to see cedema of tbe lower limbs, diarrhoea, insomnia, delirium, and oven coma. In certain cases special symptoms are produced. The progress of the disease may be so rapid as to soon put an end to symptoms which appeared likely to continue several weeks. Thus, in some cases, injury of the urethra by a bistoury, or by the falling off of an eschar, does not interrupt the course of gangrene; while, in others, the disease termi- nates by producing a fistulous opening of the urethra. In a case com- municated to M. Demarquay by Dr. Ange, there was circumscribed gangrene of the penis from paraphimosis; in detaching some eschars the urethra was laid open; some weeks later the fistula healed. This fortunate result, however, did not occur in a somewhat similar case recorded by Boerhaave. The complications which may attend gangrene of the penis are various. Among them M. Demarquay mentions urinary infiltration and its re- sults, purulent infection, orchitis, and haemorrhage either from the detachment of sloughs, or from the progress of the mortification. He relates a case of fatal haemorrhage which followed detachment of the slough in a case of partial gangrene of the penis under his care in the early part of 1870. The duration of gangrene of the penis is usually short, the develop- ment of the disease occupying nine days only; sometimes, however, where the sheath of the corpora cavernosa has been attacked, it may continue for weeks or months. When symptoms of purulent infection have been present, in the form of frequent rigors, the disease is of longer duration and convalescence is slow. In some cases, there has been a very successful recovery. The glans having been thrown off, the conical surface of the corpora cavernosa has become covered with granulations, and, with the aid of caustics, a kind of glans, though short, has been formed. In several instances, too, its tegumentary sensibility has become so far developed as to allow sensations almost similar to those felt before the occurrence of the disease. DeLavacherie, of Liege, relates a case where a true glans was reproduced. M. Demarquay, however, believes that here a portion of the spongy-tissue of the original glans was left, and served as a basis for proliferation. The diagnosis of gangrene of the penis is not difficult; what is required to be known is the extent of the disease. The line of demarca- tion, when present, shows the limit. Sometimes, as in penitis,'the only external sign of sphacelus is a small hole through which the gangrenous portions of the fibrous sheath of the corpora cavernosa escape. In phymosis the existence of gangrene of the glans cannot be diagnosed until the prepuce has been cut open. In order to ascertain the depth to which the gangrene has extended, the tissues must be cut into till pain and a slight flow of blood are produced. The prognosis must be made with reserve, as recovery has taken place in very unpromising conditions. It depends on the nature of the injury, its extent, and on the depth to which it has invaded the tissues. The loss of the prepuce is of no importance, except that it diminishes the sensibility of the glans. When one corpus cavernosum, only, has become gangrenous, the loss is replaced by cicatricial tissue; in con-