DIABETES. o;3 5. Under simple meat diet, with almond bread, the quantity of urine tingling, trembling, &c, cramps in the legs, and loss of appetite and sleep. A table-spoonful of the following mixture was given three times a day :—Fowler's solution, 30 grammes; chloride of ammonium, 8 grammes; bichloride of mercury, 5 centigrammes; water, 3 75 grammes. After a continuation of this treatment for six weeks, combined (!) with nux vomica, or its alkaloid, cod-liver oil, and sea baths, his condition became greatly improved, and he was able in time to return to his work in an office, and to write with the greatest ease. Diabetes. Tscherinow (" Zur Lebrevon dem Diabetes Mellitus," £ Virch. Arch.,' xlvii, 102) reviews the physiological doctrines of Bernard, Pavy, -.leissner, MacDowell, Bitter, Both, Kiihne, Schiff, &c, and from his own experiments on dogs, rabbits, and fowls, tables of which are given, decides entirely against the theory of the first, and inclines to that of Pavy as to the function of the liver and the cause of diabetes. At all events, he thinks his own and previous experiments prove that glycogen, as such, is destroyed, not formed, in the liver. He quotes from Dr. Miinch a case of the disease in a young woman in whom the liver-cells were found atrophied after death, and argues that this affection, at least when idiopathic, depends upon a diminution, not on an increase, of the liver function, which does not consist in the formation of glycogen or sugar, but rather the reverse. He even proposes to give to Pavy's li hepatin " the name " glycophthirium." Leube ("Zur Pathologie und Therapie des Diabetes," £Deut. Archiv.,' v, 372) gives the case of a labourer, set. 31, who was affected with diabetes of moderate severity. A brother had died of the same disease. For four months the case was carefully watched to determine the influence of diet and treatment, and tables of curves are given which show graphically the following results : 1. The excretion of sugar is greater during the night (6 p.m.—6 a.m.) than during the day. The mean amount excreted in the twenty-four hours was 250 grammes—110 during the latter, 140 during the former period. 2. The increase in quantity of urine is directly proportional (parallel) to that of the sugar. These two results are the more striking, because the patient took food only in the daytime, and drank twice as much during the day as during the night. 3. By a comparison of the two curves, the percentage ol sugar in the urine could scarcely vary. But as the lines do not absolutely coincide, this conclusion is not exact. Generally speaking, the mean amount of sugar in the urine is higher in the daytime than at night. 4. During the course of two intercurrent affections (a pleuro- pneumonia lasting eight days, and a rheumatismal diarrhoea) the quantity of urine and sugar was considerably diminished. During the diarrhoea the patient lost nine pounds in four days, and the extremely fluid stools gave, with Trommer's test, the reaction of sugar, a fact by no means common.