491 CHOLERA. failure:—first, that apparently even able and painstaking operators may- find it impossible to transmit successive vaccination from calf to calf •without very frequent recurrence of failures and interruptions; secondly, that the transference of infection from the calf to the human subject, even under the most favorable circumstances (i. e. by experienced operators and with lancet direct from calf to arm), has in it such risks of failure that, for instance, at Rotterdam, the proportion of unsuccess was nearly twenty times as great as in the ordinary arm-to-arm vacci- nations ; and thirdly, that the calf-lymph, as compared with ordinary lymph, is peculiarly apt to spoil with keeping, and in the form of tube- preserved lymph can so little be relied on that the Eotterdam estab- lishment, in distributing supplies of lymph, now uses only lymph from the human subject. Evidently, then, in the present state of knowledge, a system of animal vaccination would have in it an extreme uncertainty of operation; and this uncertainty would, for obvious reasons, be so conclusive against our preferring the system on its own merits for pur- poses of public vaccination, that practically we have only to consider whether our own system has demerits entitling it to any considerable mistrust. After reviewing the recent improvements in the English system of public vaccination, he adds, that considering all these improvements made within the last dozen years in the arrange- ments of public vaccination in England, and considering especially their bearing on the quality of the vaccination, both as regards the probable efficiency and care of the vaccinator, and as regards the local arrangements which affect his selection , of lymph, and if in 1857 he (Mr. Simon) was able to show that vaccination, as till then adminis- tered in England, had not deserved the imputation that it served as a means of communicating syphilis, he anticipates that, in the present immensely improved state of the case, no such imputation will be deemed warautable.' The very interesting report of Dr. Seaton on so- called animal vaccination in Erance, Belgium, and Holland, is appended.* Perhaps the most conclusive paper as to the non-foundation of the imputation of the transmission of syphilis by means of vaccination is that of Dr. Anstie,f in which he takes up the ground, that not only is there no proof of such transmission having occurred, but there are grounds for philosophic disbelief as to the possibility of syphilis being so communicated. The prevailing epidemic of smallpox renders the vaccination question at present one of more than ordinary interest. Cholera. Dr. Bryden concludes his report on the cholera of 1868, in the Bengal Presidency, in the following words:—" I wish to repeat the caution which I gave at the commencement of this paper—that, clear as the laws appear to be, and perfect as the parallels seem, the demonstra- tions from the history of this period are but a small contribution * Ibid., p. 171. t 'The Practitioner,' iii, pp. 229, 289.