REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tion. For six months before his admission to the Hotel Dieu his voice had lost its timbre. In Feb. 1870, there appeared a swelling of the glands in the left supra-clavicular space. They were perfectly indolent, and more or less movable; none were found elsewhere, except a few small ones in the axillary region, chiefly on the right side. There was no change in tonsils or thyroid, no enlarged glands to be felt in abdo- men ; liver and spleen was both enlarged; there was no increase in white blood-cells. Behier considers it a case, by no means common, in which considerable development, tuberculosis, and cheesiness of the cer- vical glands, was found in an adult, in whom the autopsy, agreeing with the diagnosis, revealed miliary tubercles in cheesy transformation in the lungs and pleura, tuberculosis of the mediastinal glands, tubercular ulceration of the vocal cords and of the intestines. A case is published (ib. p- 401) of a etable-helper, set. 58, admitted under Lancereaux into the Hotel Dieu, June 22nd, 1870. Well up to the 20th, he was found, on the following morning, lying in his stable. After admission there was delirium, more or less violent, from time to time ; carphology ; respiration accompanied with movements like those of a man smoking a pipe; no abnormal souuds in lungs. On the fourth day of his stay there was opisthotonos ; contraction of the jaw; dia- phragmatic breathing; hypersesthesia of left arm and leg, with contrac- tion of the former; diminished sensibility of right half of body; then paralysis of movement on left, and of sensation on right side; no vomit- ing ; 'death on eleventh day. The post-mortem examination showed thin skull-wall; abundant cerebro-spinal fluid; meninges opaque and thickened; vivid injection at base and Sylvian fissures; fine miliary granulations. The pons for about four square centimetres, seemed to be the seat of encephalitis, being injected and slightly softened, with points of ha?morrhage. A like appearance was met with behind the right fissure of Sylvius, where it occupied the thickness of the convo- lutions. The lungs were pigmented and congested, with disseminated, not numerous, tubercular granulations. Nothing very noteworthy about the other organs. Contagion and Infection. Sanderson's paper ('Sep. Med. Off. Privy Council,' 1869, p. 229) contains an account of Chauveau's, Beale's, and his own researches into the nature and action of the vaccine-lymph, and the experiments of the first-named with the poison of smallpox, sheep-pox, and farcy. After objecting to any chemical explanation of the phenomena of contagion— firstly, that the multiplication of contagium in the body is a process which cannot be compared to any brought about by chemical agencies, independently of organic development; and, secondly, that all contagia possess the power of retaining their influence for long periods, often resisting the most unfavourable chemical and physical conditions, and showing themselves to be what they are only after contact with living organism—the writer reviews at length Hallier's observations on the origin and development of micrococcus (inicrozyme), more especially in cholera and sheep-pox, and draws the following conclusions: