264 REPORT ON SURGERY. Sexual excesses and constitutional diseases terminating in death are the two most active factors in producing azoospermia. The semen of the only cryptorchid examined, contained no spermatozoa. Tannin and Glycerine in Gonorrhoea.—Br. Schuster states that tannin mixed with glycerine, at first forms a soft, waxy substance, which soon becomes hard and brown, and melts in a moist atmosphere at the tem- perature of the body. Dr. Schuster has formed small pencils of this compound, which he inserts into the urethra of patients suffering from gonorrhoea. They are from three to four inches in length, well rounded at the extremities, and consist of thirty grains of tannin, one grain of powdered opium, and a sufficient quantity of glycerine to form a pastile. Before their introduction they should be dipped in warm water. They should be left in the urethra five or ten minutes.—(' Lancet.' Oct 8 1870.) » Chronic Gonorrhoea.—Mr. Hill has had great success in the use of injections of glycerine of tannin. The formula being glycerine of tannin, three ounces, olive oil and mucilage, of each one ounce. About two drachms to be used each time.—(' Lancet,' March 28, 1869.) Syphilis and Tubercle.—Two papers on the relation between syphilis and tubercle, will be found in ' Med. Times and Gazette,' Nov. 20, 27, 1869, by M. Lebert. " Syphilitic infection is not only able to develop an existing predisposition to tubercle, but it can cause tuberculosis with- out any such predisposition." Subcutaneous Injections in Syphilis.—Dr. T. J. Walker writes on the subcutaneous injection of salts of mercury in the treatment of syphilis. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' July 10, and Dec. 4, 1869.) Dr. Oppert brought forward notes of cases illustrating the treatment of syphilis by the use of hypodermic injections. ('Clin. Soc. Trans.' iii, p. 42.) Inoculations.—Mr. Morgan has been practising inoculations, from vaginal discharges, in cases of syphilis. He thinks this discharge more efficacious than that of a chancre, and it can be obtained after the disappearance of the latter. (' Dub. Quart. Journ.,' Aug. 1870.) Hereditary Syphilis.—Mr. Bartlett notes a case of hereditary syphilis, in which paralysis of both arms occurred. The patient was a female aged three months. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iii. p. 33.) Recurrent Herpes Preputialis.—M. Doyon, writing on this subject, states that it uniformly follows some primary venereal affection, dies away and then recurs, it may be for years. It is more frequently a sequel of chancroid than of gonorrhoea, and of this, than of true chancre. The group of vesicles appears in close proximity to the primary chancre. ('Lancet,' Feb. 13, 1869.) Compression of the brain.—A remarkable case of this kind is recorded by Mr. John Adams in the 'Lancet,' March 27, 1869. A man, set. 37, received a blow from a man's fist near the left ear; he became insen-