REPORT O.N MIDWIFERY, ETC. Rupture and laceration of uterus and vagina.—Mr. Stevens relates a case of rupture of the uterus, where the usual symptoms were postponed until twenty minutes after the accident. It was her fifth labour. Three conditions were present. The child was very large, weighing lbs.; it had been dead apparently some days; and the uterine wall in the seat of rupture which was* in the anterior wall was extremely thin. (' Journ. of Gynsecolog. Soc. of Boston,' Nov., 1869.) Dr. P. Young relates: A woman having had a natural labour, when at term again had protracted labour from unyielding cartilaginous os uteri. Laceration occurred through the vaginal portion of the cervix, extending to the lower part of the uterus, not involving the peritoneum. There was some haemorrhage, but no marked symptoms. Child was extracted by turning. Womau did well till the fifth day, when, having been disturbed by nurse, profuse haemorrhage occurred, causing death. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Jan., 1869.) A case of spontaneous rupture of the uterus during labour.—IVIr. Denton relates a case of spontaneous rupture of the uterus during labour. The patient was forty years old, in her seventh labour, the precediug labours having been of ordinary character. She was under care of a midwife, who reported that labour went on as usual from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m., when pains ceased and faintness set in. No ergot, it is said, was given. She quickly died. Autopsy.—A considerable quantity of bloody serum in cavity of abdomen ; uterus at first seemed entire, but the peritoneum covering the anterior aspect was suspended, and underneath and visible through it, was a mass of coagula diffused be- tween the peritoneum and the muscular portion, which towards the cervix was thin and attenuated. A longitudinal rent, several inches in length, was found in the anterior aspect of the uterus, not extending into the vagina, the edges on both sides being ragged and torn. The child weighed about 12 lbs. The placenta was detached. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870.) Dr. Hicks discusses ('Lancet,' 1869) the mode in which laceration of the vagina is produced, in illustration of a case of alleged malapraxis in which the uterus was entirely separated, and came away with the placenta attached, inside, there being no inversion. He shows that the transverse or circular rent is effected by the uterus itself pulling upon the fixed or jammed vaginal ring. Messrs. Paget and Denton, of Leicester, narrate in confirmation (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869) a case observed by them. A woman was delivered after a labour of ordinary severity by a midwife. The pla- centa was removed with little traction twenty minutes afterwards. To this was attached the whole uterus, Pallopian tubes, and ovaries. The woman died in forty-five minutes. It seemed clear that the rupture was not caused by any violence on the part of the midwife. It is ob- served that no force can be applied to lacerate the uterus from its pelvic attachments until it is inverted, and wholly outside the vulva. In this case, as in the preceding, the uterus was not inverted. Dr. Miller, however (" On Inversion," 1870), relates a case in which it would appear that the uterus, placenta included in it, was torn away