UEPOltT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 4U2 affirms to be the original and permanent states of the heads of children born in this manner, and not the result of labour. In ordinary labour, Dr. Duncan observes, with the vertex presenting, transformation into a face case is provided by the greater length of the anterior cranial lever-arm, which maintains flexion. Not doubting the influence of the dolicoccphalous form, lie finds in the frequent lateral obliquity of the uterus the most probable cause. This obliquity im- parts a curvature to the genital canal at the pelvic brim, where the free transformation begins. If the uterus is deflected to the right, the occi- put, being turned to the left foramen ovale, will lie in the concavity of the uterine curve. If the head meets with much resistance, the occiput will tend to advance first, from the comparative shortness of the poste- rior cranial lever, and from its being nearer the line of the propelling force, which must incline towards the left in consequence of the deflec- tion of the uterus, the vertex presentation will be maintained. But nearly once in three and a half times the occiput is turned to the right, that is, to the convexity of the canal; the propelling power will then tend to make the forehead descend. Dr. Duncan incidentally calls attention to the far greater frequency of face-presentations in Germany as compared with this country; and refers to the dorsal and lateral decubitus in labour as possibly influenc- ing this result. ("With regard to Hecker's suggestion that face-presen- tation is due to the dolicocephalous form of the foetal head, we cannot avoid remarking that the existence of this form previous to labour is not proved. The measurements aud drawings of heads taken by the reporter afford strong evidence that the dolicocephalous form is the result of labour.—E. B.) ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' 1870.) Dr. Spondly discusses (' Mon. f. Greburtsk.,' 1869) the history ot face-labours by analysis of 56 cases, of which 28 occurred in hospital, 25 in private practice; 27 were first labours, 29 in pluripara ; 29 chil- dren were boys, 24 girls. In hospital, 23 cases ended spontaneously, 4 by forceps, and 1 by Caesarian section after death, caused by internal haemorrhage. In private 7 cases only ended spontaneously, 18 by for- ceps, 1 by turning, 2 by cephalotripsy. The contrast between hospital and private practice is explained by the fact that in private the practi- tioner is only called in to difficult cases. Five mothers died of the spon- taneous labours, 2 resulted in loss of the child. Of the artificial labours, in 19 the child was lost. There is nothing definite as to the mode of production of the malposition, or as to rules of treatment. Twin pregnancy is illustrated by B. Curgenven (' Obstetr. Trans.,' 1869), who gives the history of an hereditary twin-bearing family, in which the tendency to double birth was remarkably manifest. Dr. Brunton (op. cit.) supplies evidence against the doctrine that twins contained in one sac are always of the same sex. Of 10 cases in which the children were of different sexes, in 9, he says, there was only one sac. This is so directly at variance with the observation of others, that further evidence is desirable. Dr. Playfair (op. cit.) observed that in all the cases of united twins the sex was the same. Here neces- sarily they were contained in one amnios. A case of united twins was shown by Dr. liogers (op. cit.), confirming this point.