REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 3S0 worthy—the uterus, bound down by adhesions, overcame them, and became developed as far as the seventh month; the adhesions caused retroversion of the gravid womb. ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' Oct 1870.) Dr. Storer contributes a valuable essay on the rectum in its relations to uterine disease. Having illustrated the frequency of diseases of the rectum and their bearing on uterine disease, he points out a mode of examination which he thinks superior to those in ordinary use. He deprecates for diagnosis, as well as for treatment, the use of the anal speculum. He says that by everting the rectum by passing the finger within the vagina we are able to explore the rectal cavity far more thoroughly than by any other means, and to apply remedies and perform operations with an ease, safety, and satisfaction that are other- wise impossible. He gives several interesting clinical illustrations of his views and practice. He relates a case in which an ovarian tumour opened into the rectum, and was cured by a fistulous communication ; also a case of utero-ovarian fistula. The patient had a large abdomen, and pus escaped from the os uteri. A large male catheter, passed through the os its full length, gave exit to a large hand-basinful of a fetid sanies, with the effect of lessening the abdomen, and allowing the point of the catheter to be felt upon one side of the umbilicus. ('Anier. Journ. of Obstet.,' 1869.) Dr. J. C. Nott insists upon and illustrates the influence of haemor- rhoids and fissure of the rectum in the production of severe symptoms referred to the uterus ('Amer. Journ. of Obstet.,' 1869). The Disorders of Menstruation. Dr. Cholmeley commends the virtues of chloride of ammonium in amenorrhcea and dysmenorrhcea. ('St. Andrew's Medical Graduates' Transactions,' 1870.) Dr. Mandl discusses the pathology and treatment of dysmenorrhcea onembranacea. He details a case, and submits the following conclusions: —It is a disease sui generis; its pathognomonic feature is the expul- sion of a membrane resembling decidua, within and not later than forty- eight hours after the advent of menstruation; occasionally membranes are expelled during extra-menstrual intervals; they are formed in con- sequence of a chronic inflammation; it leads, after long duration, to retro- and ante-versions, congestions, and, lastly, to marked disturb- ance of the general health; sterility is observed in all cases; the getiology is quite unknown; chloride of potassium applied immediately to the uterine mucous membrane seems to be palliative. (' Wien. Med. Presse,' 1869.) Dr. Oustav Braun communicates a report upon the treatment of dys- menorrhosa and sterility by bilateral division of the cervix uteri. To divide the cervical portion he uses Kiichenmeister's scissors. He then cuts the os internum uteri and the neighbouring portion by a blunt- ended lancet-shaped knife. On the third day he passes the sound. He keeps the patient in bed for seven or eight days and during the sue-