iJ'JO KEi'ORT ON BUEGEEY. the remainder of the bone became necrosed and was excised, together with the articular ends of the radius and ulna, and yet a limb was preserved which, with the aid of ingenious apparatus, was very useful. This also stated that, in twenty-niue of the American cases, portions of the clavicle or of the coracoid and acromion processes and neck of the scapula were excised, as well as the head of the humerus. Only four of these cases ended fatally, and the average result in the recovered cases was as satisfactory as the ordinary result in decapitation of the humerus. In the number of the ' Gazette' for Oct. i is another article on— Resections of the elbow and wrist-joints.—The comparative difficulty of maintaining the elbow in an immovable state renders the treatment troublesome, and assists in explaining the fact that the mortality conse- quent on resection was, during the late American war, a fraction higher than that following amputation. It is said by Dr. Hodges that as much as four inches of bone, above, and four below the joint may have several times been removed, a useful arm being regained, but the chance of myelitis is increased when the medullary cavity is opened. Of all tlie principal excisions performed for disease, that of the wrist-joint is the one on which the least reliance is placed, and Dr. Hodges infers, there- fore, that in military surgery the results would be unfavorable, and such is the case. He thinks, however, that there is perhaps sufficient precedent to authorise renewed trials in cases not accompanied by too great laceration of the soft parts. A few secondary operations have lately been performed at Netley with results similar to those met with in cases of disease by Surgeon-Major Mackinuon. Excision of the hip for gunshot.—In the Circular No. 2, issued by the Surgeon-General of the United States Army, Washington, 1869, and compiled by G. A. Otis, will be found an account of a number of amputations at the hip additional to those in No. 7 (see ' Eetrospect,' 1867-8, p. 326), as well as a comparison between the results of excision and amputation. The number of amputations performed during the American war has been increased from 53 to 62, and of recorded cases from 108 to 121. It is stated that of 39 cases of primary excision, 36 died (92-3 per cent.) ; of 34 intermediate, 30 died (88-2 per cent.) ; of 12 secondary, n died (91-6 per cent.) ; total, 85 ; 77 deaths, 8 reco- veries, and a mortality of 90-6. On the other hand, of 183 cases in which amputation was performed, 162 died, 18 recovered, giving a per-centage of 90. (Three doubtful cases are excluded from the per- centages.) 79 were primary ; of these, 75 died, 1 recovered, and 3 were "doubtful" (98-68 per cent.) ; 76 were intermediate, 70 died (92-10 per cent.) ; 20 were secondary, 13 died (6^ per cent.) ; 8 were reampu- tations, one half died (50 per cent.). An able article on this subject will be found in the ' Med. Times and Gazette,' Oct. 8, 1870. Excisions for gunshot.—hx the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 15, 1870, is a review of a work entitled ' Das Endresultat der Eesectionen im Kriege, 1864, in den Unterlassen der Danischen Arinee.' Von Prof. Dr. Adolph