1USP011T ON WJfWWmX, BTOi m quantity. After the child was bora, pressure was made on the ab- domen. In gathering up the cord to remove the placenta, midwife touncl it had partially passed beyond the vulva; it was still adherent to a large, round, hard tumour, with a rough bleeding surface. This was the inverted uterus. The placenta was easily peeled off, no haemorrhage, l ie uterus returned under pressure upon the fundus, with a "jerk." There was a little faintness, nothing more; uterus contracted well. Recovery. Obstetric Therapeutics, including Operations. On tUerine expression to remove the placenta.—Dr. Chautreuil is an enthusiastic advocate of the method of effecting the removal of the placenta which (for want of adequate knowledge of British obstetrics) is attributed on the Continent to Crede. This consists in compressing the uterus forcibly by the hands on the fundus and sides of the uterus immediately after the expulsion of the foetus. Chantreuil gives a sum- mary of 540 labours in which this plan was resorted to. In 494 the placenta was expelled within three minutes after the child. (The prin- cipal difference between this recent continental advance in practical obstetrics and the practice long in vogue in this country, is in the imme- diate application of pressure. It is, at least, doubtful whether it is not better to allow a little time after the great effort made to expel the fetus, for the uterus to recruit before interfering. Too early meddling i3 apt to excite spasmodic action.—11. B.) (' Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1870.) Dr. Playfair relates two cases well illustrating the value of external pressure on the uterus in effecting delivery. (' Lancet,' Oct., 1870.) Dr. Handheld Jones ('The Practitioner,' 1869) believes that strych- nia has a valuable power of promoting contraction of the uterus after labour. He cites one case. He recommends i-3oth to i-2oth of a grain three times a day. This dose given to the mother, he thinks, is not dangerous to the suckling infant. In relation to the above, it is well to append an important observation made by George Harley ('Lancet,' 1869). A child, whose mother was taking strychnine in medicinal doses, had peculiar facial twitchings, and convulsive movements in other parts of the body; these ceased when the mother discontinued the medicine. The mother manifested no physiological effects. Illustrating the same point is a report by Dr. Du Vivier (' Annales de Dermatologie,' 1869) on the use of arsenic. He treated two women for psoriasis. Both aborted at seven months of dead children. He believes this was caused by the arsenic; the women bore the dose, an ordinary one, perfectly well. Dr. A. Guerin had observed similar con- sequences from mercury. (It is, however, possible that the accident was attributable to the disease for which the remedy was given.—11. B.) The use of chloral hydrate in obstetrics is illustrated by J. Gorson Da Cunba, of Bombay, who gave half-drachm doses in retarded labour in three cases. The effect appears to have been marked in allaying nervous irritation, labour soon proceeding favorably. (' Lancet,' 1870.) By R. Dacre Fox, who gave it in one case of puerperal convulsions. The patient was a girl, m% 15^ years only. Fits came on when head was on perineum. A decomposed child was delivered by forceps. The