UEPOItT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 92 quently by cold," ' Brit. Med. Journ.,* 1869, i, 146; Roberts, "Capsicum in Delirium Iremens," ib., 308; Chapman, "Case of Delirium Tremens successfully treated by Hydrate of Chloral," «Med. Times and Gaz.,' ii, 419. Progressive Muscular Atrophy. Grimm (' Virch. Arch.,' xlviii, 445), after publishing a case of this disease in a farmer, set. 45 years, in whom it had existed for two years, and at whose autopsy was found medullary cancer of the cord in the cervical region, with dilatation of the central canal, gives tables of 40 cases, which, with 60 published by Wachsmuth in 1855, present the following results :—56 males between the ages of eighteen and fifty-nine, 13 females between twenty-two and sixty-nine, and 7 boys between nine and fifteen, were affected, and there were 24 doubtful cases. The upper extremities were attacked in 51 cases, the lower in 16, the face in 2, the tongue in 3, and the trunk in 3. Pain was present in about half. Nine cases are said to have been hereditary (?) ; nearly half the number were ascribed to the effect of cold upon the surface of the body; the disease became certainly worse in 65, there was some im- provement in 22, and recovery in 3. No autopsy was made in 78 cases ; of the rest (22) the anterior, or posterior, or both columns of the cord were affected in 4. Dilatation of the central canal was found in 7. With this paper may be compared Westphal's remarks (ib., 516) on the artificial production of degeneration of the cord; and Virchow's own observations (ib., 519), favouring the view of the cerebral origin of the disease. Eulenberg (ib., xlix, 446) gives a case of the disease affecting both upper extremities, with Duchenne's paralysis (Lipomatosis musculorum luxurians) of both lower extremities, especially below the knee, in a woman aet. 44. The affection had lasted for nearly sixteen years, and had commenced, after a severe attack of ague, in the right arm, then attacking the left leg, and the other parts gradually, the right arm and left leg suffering most. No electrical excitability (by galvanism or faradisation) could be roused in the affected leg. Portions of muscle were harpooned out of both legs ; from the right the muscular fibres were pretty healthy, fatty only in a few places, but some bundles were broader than usual; between them was abundant interstitial fatty growth. The portions from the left leg showed no muscular, but only ordinary adipose, tissue. Dyce Brown publishes ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' xv, 1079) a case of Duchenne's paralysis occurring in a man aet. 26. It affected the thighs, legs, abdominal muscles, and arms, in succession. The patient was still alive at the time of the report. Haddon (ib., 1108) records a case of "acute muscular atrophy" in a gardener, a3t. 21, who recovered under the exhibition of nitrate of silver. Da Silva Lima (' L'TJnion Med.,' 1869, viu, 797) used arsenic successfully in this disease in a man aet. 33, whose upper extremities were affected. The atrophy, well marked, was accompanied by pain,