354 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. There was no apparent relation between the defective portion of the field and the position of the most depressed or wasted portion of the disc ; and the author hence infers that the radiation of the nerve fibrils is less regular than has been supposed.* The relative frequency of different forms of glaucoma is expressed by the following table, which comprises 165 cases. It shows : — Acute glaucoma. Sub-acute glaucoma. Chronic glau- coma, with severe inflammatory attacks. Chronic-glau- coma, with blight inflammatory attacks. Simple glaucoma. Women ... 19 H 29 17 2 4 6 27 28 21 18 56 45 13% 11% 15% 33% 28% (1) That simple glaucoma was present in more than one fourth of the whole. (2) That the acute and sub-acute cases together form less than one fourth of the whole. (3) That chronic forms, with attacks of inflammation, amount to one halt' of the whole. (4) That acute glaucoma is ten times as frequent in women as in men. (5) That in subacute glaucoma the number of women is thrice that of men. (6) That the number of glaucomatous women diminishes as we ap- proach the forms in which inflammatory attacks become rare; and falls short of the number of men, in simple glaucoma, in the proportion of 4 to 7. . The authors state, as a rule, that fourdroyant glaucoma is a disease ol women, that it ordinarily occurs towards the age of 55 or 60 years, and that it is commonly not preceded by any precursory symptoms. Among the irregular forms of the disease a case is mentioned in which the sclerotic seems to have yielded to increasing tension, pro- ducing a high degree of myopia instead of glaucoma; two cases in which retinitis from venous obstruction was an early symptom, and seven in which there was retinal haemorrhage. In these the effects of iridectomy were uncertain and unsatisfactory. Out of 234 cases, in 73 one eye only was attacked, in 161 both were attacked. The former cases were chiefly those in which the glaucoma was consecutive to some other form of disease. Yon Graefet has contributed to the literature of glaucoma a memoir * Should it not be inferred that impairment of the field is due to compression of the percipient layer of the retina, rather than of the fibre layer ?—It. B. C. t ' Arch. f. Ophthal./ xv, Abth. 3 ; and ' Annalcs d'Ocuhst.,' 1870, 63.