DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. 243 walls. (6) While eversion is due to the rotation of the fractured bone ou a hinge formed in the anterior cervical wall, shortening is generally due to the obliquities of this hinge. (7) In a well-formed bone the posterior and thin surface of the neck of the bone is prolonged into the cancellous texture beneath tho anterior introchanteric ridge, and is the true neck. (8) The posterior inter-trochanteric ridge is a buttress built upon the true neck, by which, when impacted, this ridge is some- times split off. Mr. W. Adams has described (in the ' Pathological Transactions,' xxi, p. 305) the appearances presented after death by a recent unre- duced dislocation of the femur backwards on to the base of the spine of the ischium. The head of the bone had passed in a direction upwards and backwards, between the obturator externus and internus muscles. The chief obstacle to its further progress was evidently the obturator internus muscle, the tendon of which was tightly stretched across the upper part of the head of the bone. The capsular ligament was torn ar the posterior part, and the chief difficulty in reduction consisted in the strong anterior half, which could not be stretched enough to allow the head of the bone to be lifted over the posterior border of the aceta- bulum. The ligamentum teres was torn. The movement required for reduction was, first, extension of the thigh in an oblique direction inwards; secondly, a powerful rotatory movement, outwards, of the thigh bone upon its own axis, by which the head of the bone was directed inwards towards the socket, into which it slipped when the anterior part of the capsule was sufficiently stretched. It did not appear that any important muscular resistance could be offered to reduction. Figures are given. Mr. Hamilton describes a case of dislocation of the femur which he found quite impossible of reduction, on account of the small opening in the capsule and a fracture of the acetabulum allowing the capsule" to double up. This was shown at the post-mortem examination. CDub Quart. Journ.,' Feb., 1869.) V Mr. Birkett has published, in the ' Medico-Chirurgical Trans ' lii p. 133, the case of a woman, aged 35, who was killed by iniuries inflicted on the brain. She had fallen from a height. Dislocation of the head 01 the lemur on to the dorsum ilii was discovered, with crepitus on rota- tion, and, after death the head was found to rest just above the aceta- bulum; a piece of the head, however, was broken off and lay in the acetabulum, retained there by the ligamentum teres, which was very slightly torn The cartilage-covered head of the femur was uncovered by its capsular ligament, a small piece of which lay torn upon it. A lew bbres of the ligamentum teres remained attached to the usual fcSS1?\01! ltS Tfa£r The head was 8ti11 sliSh% attached to the fragment broken off. • The cotyloid ligament was detached from the posterior hnm of the acetabulum. The rent of the capsular ligament ?im;i? 1. ° th\P°1sterior 8urface. Mr. Birkett remarks that no similar case has probably ever been described. The mode in which the head ot the femur was broken may have been either that the head of the bone was split by being forcibly driven against the strong edge of the acetabulum; or that the strength of the ligamentum teres and its