REMOVAL OF TUMOURS. 2:2!) tube, passing out through the uose. This was done once or twice a week. After a time, astringent lotions were substituted for the alkaline five grains of sulphate of zinc to the ounce of water being the one' generally employed. The tympana were regularly inflated on Politzer's plan, and astringent lotions, containing a little opium, were poured into the meatus at night. (' Lancet,' April 23, 1870.) Catarrh of the tympanum.—Mr. Hinton narrates five more cases in which he has practised perforation of the membrana tympani. In all of them the result was favorable. (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' xv, 215.) Electrolysis in treatment of hydatids of liver.—Dr. Fagge and Mr. Durham brought the subject of the treatment of hydatids of the liver by electrolysis under the notice of the Medical and Chirurgical Soc. They had treated eight cases on the plan advocated by Dr. Althaus, and had had excellent results. The positive pole, of a modified ten- celled Daniel's battery, terminating in a moistened sponge, was placed on the abdomen, and two needles connected with the negative pole were passed into the tumour. The current was allowed to pass for ten or twenty minutes, and then the needles were withdrawn. A little clear fluid in some cases appeared at the seat of the punctures. Eapid dimi- nution of the tumours followed. The authors thought that the " sub- cutaneous tapping" in great measure accounted for the success, and that possibly simple acupuncture might be efficacious. In comparison with " tapping," the authors were of opinion that electrolysis was quite as free from danger to life and from the occurrence of suppuration within the sac. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 19, 1870.) Eemoval of subcutaneous tumours.—Mr. Henry Lee described a plan of removing subcutaneous tumours without haemorrhage or loss of skin by the use of india-rubber thread. He had found that the pressure of the thread would rapidly, by a process of linear mortification or of ulceration, cut through the base of the tumour. The plan might be applied to the surface as well as to the base of any growth that might have to be removed, and was peculiarly applicable to vascular tumours of the neck and face. A crucial line of ulceration was first made through the skin by the continued pressure of india-rubber bauds or thread. Needles were then inserted below the flaps of skin thus pro- duced, and the skin was dissected back from the centre towards the circumference, by the pressure of the india rubber. The base of the tumour was then cut through in the same way, so that the whole of it was enucleated without the aid of the knife. The process went on much more rapidly than might be expected, and it was comparatively sale, as the india-rubber thread always, on account of its elasticity, re- mained tight. The circulation could not consequently be established in a part once strangulated, and so far the danger of blood-poisoning was avoided. (" Eeport Eoy. Med. and Chir. Soc," ' Brit. Med. Journ.?' July 23, 1870.) Eemoval of the thyroid gland ly caustic enucleation.—An abstract of