1 HERNIOTOMY. :>97 of the bowol was resorted to for the relief of extreme distension after rupture of the bowel is narrated, p. 64, ' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' ii, by Mr. T. Smith. The patient was a boy, ret. 13. On the seventh day after the injury, Mr. Smith puuctured the intestines, with a fine trocar, through the linea alba, midway between the umbilicus and pubes. The effect was immediate, and the relief to the boy's suiferings very great. He sank, however, twenty-eight hours later. The case is interesting from its uuusual features. The boy was struck by a cricket ball in the right iliac fossa. He felt faint, but on lying down the sensation passed away, and although unable to continue playing he did not leave the ground. He remained an hour and a half watching the game, till its conclusion. He then walked home, a distance of more than a mile, expe- riencing but little inconvenience from the blow. Mr. Smith thinks that this absence of urgent symptoms might be due to an empty state of the bowel at the time, or that it was only distended with flatus. It seems unlikely that grave symptoms would have been so long delayed if any faecal extravasation had taken place at the time of rupture. At the post-mortem examination it was found that faecal matter in some quan- tity had escaped into the peritoneal cavity from a ragged opening in a coil of the lower end of the small intestine lying contiguous to the caput coli, the opening being large enough to admit the end of the thumb. Mr. Smith alludes to the cases in which the bowel has been punctured for the relief of distension. There are many cases in which tympanitis is not only a source of severe suffering to the patient, but a cause of real danger to life, and in which O'Brien's tube is useless. "In cases like these, intestinal puncture affords a safe and efficient means of relieving suffering, of facilitating respiration, and, it may be, of saving the patient's life." (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' ii, p. 64.) Herniotomy without returning the intestine.—M. Grirard, finding that the statistics which he had collected indicated a mortality of 52 per cent, of those subjected to the ordinary operation for strangulated hernia, sets himself to inquire at what stage of the operation the source of danger is to be found. He considers, that up to, and including the liberation of the strangulated portion, the operation is nearly free from danger to life, whether this may arise from haemorrhage, tearing the bowel, or peritonitis, but that nearly the whole of the danger of the operation lies in the reduction of the bowel by its return to the abdominal cavity. This inference is based upon a careful consideration of the circumstances which resulted in the death of twelve out of fifteen patients, operated on in the Hopital St. Andre of Bordeaux, and of the general, recorded experience of the profession. M. Girard relates twenty-seven cases in which, for various reasons, the reduction of the intestine was not effected; of these, only seven died, the remaining twenty having been cured. Then follow some conclusions ; the first five need not be re-stated, the sixth is that the fourth step of the operation has for its object the return of the intestine. This fourth step is a frequent cause of the persistence of the symptoms of strangulation; it is the most active cause of the peritonitis so commonly met with after operation. It provokes and produces the extravasation of intestinal