LIVER. 17 sue with an epithelial lining, whilst the capillary lymphatics consist of epithelium alone. These surround the intralobular blood-vessels in the form of a sheath. His results accord therefore in all respects with those of MacGillivry. Schmidt, of New Orleans (see above) con- tends that there is a direct continuity of structure between the hepatic tubules and the lymphatics of the liver. Dr. "Wolf* has experimented on the liver with a view of clearing up the differences of opinion that have been published on the ques- tion of the daily elimination of the bile, and has arrived at the fol- lowing conclusion. The animals were dogs of the ages of eight and ten months, and the experiments were performed under the direction of Hover and Nowrocki. i. The amount of secretion discharged is in direct relation to the relative size of the liver. "Where this amounts to i-2oth of the body weight, the food given amounting to 400 grammes of meat and 100 grammes of bread, from 80—90 grammes of bile (about 3 oz.) were discharged per diem, containing 2-926 grammes of solids, including 1-846 grammes of biliary salts. 2. Small and young animals with relatively large livers secrete also a proportionately larger quantity of bile. 3. The amount of secretion in the same animal is dependent on the nature and amount of the food, being greatest with meat and bread, and increasing with the amount of flesh consumed, smaller with bread or rice alone, and smallest with fat alone. 4. It is greater by day than by night. It augments considerably in quantity for from two to four^ hours after food, then falls gradually even to half the amount, and again, after the lapse of 8—12—16 hours, increases, but in relation with the nature and quantity of the food pieviously taken. The entire section on the liver is remarkably well given in Austin Flint's' Physiology of Man' (vol. iii). He clearly shows from analysis of the blood of different parts that cholesterine proceeds from the disinte- gration of nervous substance. He endeavours to reconcile the conflict- ing statements of Bernard and Pavy in reference to the formation of sugar by the liver, by maintaining that only a very small quantity is formed at any moment, and that this is washed away immediately by the blood traversing the vessels. Burkartf and HammarstenJ both discuss the causes why the presence of bile arrests digestion. A good abstract of the last paper is given by Dr. Rutherford, in Humphry and Turner's 'Journal of Anatomy' (iv, p. 319). Burkart considered it to be due to the precipitation of pepsin by the bile, but Hammersten shows that, ■while partly owing to this, it is also and principally due to the circum- stance that taurocholic and, in a minor degree, glycocholic acids render the albuminous compounds indigestible. Tieffenbach§ in experiments made upon various animals in regard to the amount of glycogen contained by the blood, arrived at the conclu- sion that the further from the heart the blood is taken the less sugar it contains; that the blood of the portal vein and vena cava contain the * ' Centralbiatt f. d. Medicin. Wiss.,' 1869, p. 86. f * Pfluger's Archiv,' 1869, »> P- 182. X 'Virchow's Jahresbericht,' 1869, P- 101. § Inaug. Dissert. Konigsberg, 1869. 2