Q on OU REPORT ON SURGERY. occasion? were removed, and the disease almost disappeared. Three and a halt years later he returned. This time he had a ragged ulcer with a raised margin and a thickened base, on the dorsum of the tongue,' near the tip. Its surface was foul and ichorous, and it was excessively painful. There was no recurrence of the hypertrophy of the mucous membrane. The present disease was manifestly an ulcerated epithe- lioma. It was removed with the ecraseur successfully; but a month later a very hard lymphatic gland, of the size of a bean, was found at the angle of the jaw on the left side. This was followed by steady involv- ment of the glands of both sides of the neck and of the floor of the mouth. At the end of six months death was evidently very near. The affection of the tongue, to which the name ichthyosis was provisionally given, <: consists essentially in hypertrophy of the epithelial and papil- lary elements of the glossal, mucous membrane, corresponding to that which in the skin dermatologists have long known by the same name. Its rarity may be inferred from the fact that, during the twelve years I have had charge of a large out-patient practice at two considerable metropolitan hospitals, I had only seen this one case till a few days ago, when Mr. Moore drew my attention to a patient of his similarly affected with both ichthyosis and epithelioma of the tongue, the former of many years' duration, the latter of recent date. Ichthyosis is characterised by tough, white, raised patches on the surface of the tongue. Their colour is not unlike that of a thin film of boiled white of egg or wet kid leather ; they are clinically distinguishable from syphiliticcondylomata by their thick epithelium and their wide, superficial extent, and from syphilitic nodes and cancerous tumours by their restriction to the mucosa, by their exact circumscription, by the natural softness of the underlying muscular tissue (showing the absence of infiltration), and by the absence of ulceration and of infection of the lymphatics. The patient not being under our observation at the time when he first noticed the cancerous knot, we cannot prove or disprove its origin in any vestige of an ichthyosis patch. The long duration of the ich- thyosis as such, the complete restriction of the hypertrophy to the elementary tissues of the mucosa during twenty years, and the evident retrogression of the remaining vestige of it in 1864, favour the idea that the two conditions occurred independently, and this is supported by the anatomical relations of the cancerous tumour, which, in a longitu- dinal section of the tongue in the median plane, appears, to the naked eye, as around nodule imbedded in the muscular tissue, the coarser fasciculi of which are disposed concentrically around it. On the other hand, the final supervention of epithelioma in the only two cases which I have seen, and the anatomical parallelism presented by the very active multiplication of cells of an epithelial type in both diseases, are not without significance." (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' ii, 1.) Mr. Paget relates a case in which ichthyosis of the tongue, of twelve months' duration was followed by cancer, which developed in a month after the patient was first seen. There was hereditary tendency to cancer in the family of the patient, a lady, set. 42, for her father died, at sixty-two, with cancer of the liver, and his sister, at forty-six, with cancer of the uterus. ('Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iii, 88.)