20 EEPOItT ON PHYSIOLOGY. Dr. Broadbent* demonstrates that the so-called " selective" ab- sorption of the lymphatics is apparent only, and that so far from being selective and special, it is general and residual, the materials they take up being, in fact, merely the spare nutrient substances forced into the intertextural spaces, i. e. the commencement of the lymphatics, by the continued exudation of fresh fluid from the capillaries. C. Yoit and J. Baurf contribute a short paper on absorption in the large intestine, the essential point of interest in which is that the addi- tion of common salt materially facilitates the process of absorption of albumen. Dr. Langhans describes the absorption of extravasation and the formation of pigment in ' Virchow's Archiv,' xlix, p. 66. NERVOUS system:. ArnstJ gives a detailed description of the microscopic characters pre- sented by the cortical substance of the brain of man, which appears to agree essentially with that given by Dr. Lockhart Clarke. He makes seven layers, and states they are most distinctly visible in the new-born child. The nerve-cells and fibres are all imbedded in a tender jelly-like tissue, in which no structure can be observed except granules and faint stria?. This structureless mass is, he thinks, a remnant of the embryo- nic granular protoplasm out of which nerve-fibres and nerve-cells are directly formed. The matrix is probably not inert, but the seat of important functions. The grey matter of the cerebral convolutions has also been carefully described by Prof. Cleland of Galway,ยง who also contributes an interesting paper on the physical relations of conscious- ness and the seat of sensation.|| The most recent and complete accounts of the structure of the spinal cord and brain are given, the former by G-erlach and the latter by Meynert in Strieker's 'Manual of Histology, a translation of which will speedily be in the hands of the members of the Society. . Dr. Broadbent^" gives an account of the structure of the brain, obtained by investigating specimens hardened in spirit, showing that the commissural connection of the different parts of the hemisphere is more extensive than is generally admitted, and that the fibres more commonly run longitudinally in the convolutions than cross from one to the other, while large tracts of convolutions have no direct connec- tion with the crus, central ganglia, or corpus callosum. The bistology of the cerebellum has been carefully investigated by Oberstemer, J. M. Strachan,tf and also by Hadlich,++ abstracts of whose papers * Humphry and Turner's ' Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' iv, 1870, p. 14- f Munchen, 'Akad. Ber. Sitz d. Math. Physical. Class.,' 5 Dec, 1868. + 'Archiv f. Mikroskop. Anatomie,' v, p. 317. ยง 'Quart. Journ. of Microscop. Sci.,' April, 1870. || Humphry and Turner's ' Journal of Anatomy,' v, p. 102. ^ ' Proceed. Roy. Soc.,' June 17, 1869. ** 'Wien. Sitz. Ber.,' lx, 1869. ++ Graduation Prize Thesis, Edinh., 1869. . ++ 'Virchow's Archiv,5 xlvi, and Schultze's 1 Archiv f. Mikroskop. Anat., vi, p. 191.