151 OUIGIN OF CARDIAC MURMURS, ETC. of enlarged thyroid. Assuming that, as generally received, the murmur in the latter body is duo to a dilatation of the arterial branches, this dilatation being greater in proportion to that of the larger trunks, their walls being thinner than other arteries of the same calibre, and the murmur becoming louder with the increase of blood acceleration at the time of the systole, he argues, in the absence of any pathological proofs as yet obtained, that a like general dilatation (and enlarge- ment ?) takes place, in his cases, in the branches of the pulmonary artery ; and against the objection that dilatation of this vessel and its branches does°occur without causing any murmur, in cases of obstruc- tive heart diseases, he urges the experiments of Theodore "Weber on the origin of murmurs in blood-vessels, which he considers his own cases and theory to support, inasmuch as in cases of obstructive heart disease there is a constant relation between the dilatation of the pul- monary artery and that of its branches; the walls of the vessels are always thickened, and the stream of blood passes through them much more slowly than normally. Da Costa ('Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences,' lviii, il) discusses the question whether there are cardiac murmurs occurring in persons not anaemic, and therefore simulating organic valvular murmurs, their origin and their differential diagnosis, referring almost exclusively to the blowing systolic murmurs heard in the left auriculo-ventricular orifice. After giving several cases, he proceeds to analyse the murmurs, de- scribing them as differing from those of mitral regurgitation in the absence of the intensified second sound in the pulmonary artery: in the fact that they are not heard at the back: in their localisation, being heard generally, not at the apex, but above it, over the body of the left ventricle, most marked in the third intercostal space. They are always systolic, devoid of harshness, not very loud, and of low pitch. They may be increased by pressure of the stethoscope, or modified by the movements of expiration and inspiration. They occur generally in persons affected with palpitation and more or less dyspnoea, with frequent, and in many cases irregular, heart-action. They are met with in disordered innervation of the heart from various causes, and are frequently combined with those respiratory affections in which there is decided pulmonic obstruction. They are most probably generated at the left auriculo-ventricular orifice, in one of two possible modes, either from interference with the closure of the valves, permitting temporary regurgitation, or from altered tension of the valves. These really functional murmurs may also occur with organic change in the heart, especially with hypertrophy of that organ, and in these cases the real diagnosis is, at any rate at first, difficult. The author believes, in con- clusion, that cases of functional valvular disorder may pass into organic disease. Cotton ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869, ii, 4) gives the case of a maD, «et. 35, suffering with severe dyspnoea and general depression, in whom it was impossible to count the pulse, the stethoscope, however, revealing 200 beats of the heart in a minute, each pulsation regular and uniform, consisting of but one sound, and that free from murmur. After treatment with stimulants, ammonia, potassa and digitalis, the heart