350 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. second stage cauterization with sulphate of copper should be repeated once or twice a week ; the tannin mucilage should be used every even- ing, and iodide of potassium given in a dose of about four grains daily, with frequent laxatives. The sulphate of copper should be occasionally laid aside in favour of diluted nitrate of silver. In very old cases, in which the granulations are dry and indolent, and in which there is pannus, hot fomentations may be used, as recommended by von Graefe, or deliquesced chromic acid may be used as a caustic. If the pannus be general, and the vascularization of the cornea sufficient to pro- tect it against sloughing, inoculation with the discharge of purulent ophthalmia may be had recourse to. In the third stage, if the pal- pebral conjunctiva be converted into an irregular cicatricial tissue, this may be rendered more smooth and yielding, and less injurious to the cornea, by a few applications of chromic acid. If there be absolute xerosis, there should be frequent applications of warm milk, sweet oil, or glycerine, and deformity of the lids should be remedied by operation. The same subject has also been considered by Gosselin,* "Wecker,t Thiry,J Peltzer,§ and Blumberg.|| Dr. Horing communicated to the Ophthalmological Society of Hei- delberg^" a case of luxation of the crystalline, produced by a blow. The patient had previously lost the other eye from irido-cyclitis, following the extraction of a traumatic cataract. He came to Dr. Horing six weeks after the receipt of the second injury. The remaining eye was slightly injected, sensitive to light, and watering freely ; the pupil irregular and displaced upwards; and the lens, in its capsule, lying in the anterior chamber, about an eighth part of its circumference, in a downward and outward direction, being still covered by the iris. The lens was some- what rotated on an oblique axis, so that its upper and inner margin was directed forwards. The acuity of vision was much diminished, the patient only counting fingers at 2', and reading 23 Jaeger at 5', and no glasses assisted him. He was very unwilling to undergo an operation, and Dr. Horing therefore determined to attempt reduction. For this purpose the man was kept on his back in bed until the pupil was very widely dilated with atropine, so as to clear the margin of the lens. Calabar bean was then instilled every two hours, in the hope that the contracting pupil would pass in front of the lens and press it back. The contraction was imperfect, but still the iris came in front of the lens, excepting at the point where its margin projected forwards. The patient was discharged, got drunk, vomited, and returned with his lens once more displaced. The second attempt at reduction was completely successful, a high degree of myosis was maintained for several days, and the patient was discharged able to read 19 Jaeger with the naked eye, and 14 through a glass of + At the same seance Dr. E. Meyer communicated the further history of a patient with congenital luxation * 'Archives Generates de Medecine,' Avril, 1869. + <Gaz. Hebdora.,' 1869, p. 232. + 'Presse Medicale Beige,' 1869, p. 146. § « Die Ophthalmia Militaris sive Granulosa,' von Dr. Max Peltzer, Svo, pp. no, Berlin, 1870. I) 'Arch. f. 0.,' 1869, p. 119- % Session of 1869, ' Comptes Rendus.'