1 - " REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. uterus, whence it was expelled spontaneously, hanging only by a slender stall , which was easily separated. It weighed 140 grammes. • 068 n0t think the threatening symptoms attending the tiansf usion were caused by either air or clots. (' Gaz. Hebdomad.,' 1868.) The Puerperal State. 7 ?/i ^emey made observations on 400 women as to tie pulse in childbed. In 65 women out of 400 a retardation of the pulse was verified down to 60 or fewer beats. The retardation mostly set in a tew hours after labour, and then remained equal for some days Ihe greatest retardation was on the second day. The course of the labour, if natural, had little influence. Every pathological dis- turbance brings quickly a rise in the frequency of the pulse. In 27 cases of saccharine urine, 15 gave a remarkable rise in the pulse (92—132) without other disturbance; 12 exhibited retardation The milk-flow during the second to fifth days of childbed caused, in 280 out of 400, no remarkable alteration of the pulse; sometimes it caused a slight interruption to the retardation, but scarcely ever when the secretion was rich and the breasts full. The retardation holds in pre- mature as well as in mature births. After-pains had no influence. Emotions, however, and gastric disturbances soon cause acceleration • in like manner, but very transiently, changes of posture act. Re- tardation, then, must be regarded as a favorable symptom. What is the cause ? Erom the diminution of tension consequent upon the rapid suspension of the circulation of the blood in the uterus after the expulsion of the child. In 94 out of 400 cases irregularity and inequality of pulse were found. The irregularity recurred every two or three beats, was observed from the first to the tenth day. Milk-secretion, duration of labour, death of embryo, after-pains, had little influence; but emotions and gastric disorder, by raising the frequency of the pulse, diminished the irregu- larity. ('Archives Gen. de Medecine,' 1868.) Dr. Crede submitted to the obstetric section of the meeting of physi- cians, &c, held at Dresden in 1868, the general conclusions drawn from observations on the temperature of lying-in women, conducted for several years. The observations were arranged in groups. 1. Normal temperature, never exceeding 380 C. 2. Rising of temperature about the third day, with quick return to the normal, indicates milk-flow to the breasts, cracks of the nipples, slight bruisings and injuries of the genital canal, painful after-contractions. 3. Rising of temperature on the fourth, fifth, or sixth day, with speedy fall to the normal—generally constipation, at times no material cause, frequently errors of diet and psychical disturbances. 4. Rising on the fourth day, with longer con- tinuance of the increase, generally over fourteen days, then slow return to the normal—complications of the milder puerperal diseases, with disturbances of digestion, or slighter exudations in the neighbourhood of the uterus. 5. Rising on the second, third, and fourth day, lasting for three to four days, then quick return to the normal—diphtheritic