REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. MIL *• (5) Neither x nor y alone can produce cases of cholera; it is only z that can do this. (6) The specific nature or quality of z will he de- termined hy the specific germ x, and the mass or quantity of z by the mass of the substratum y. (7) The nature of or, y, and z is as yet un- known ; but we may accept it as a scientific probability, bordering on certainty, that all three are of an organic nature, and that x at least is an organic germ or body. The discovery of the polymorphism of the lower forms of life points out the general manner in which researches into the cholera process must be conducted. A sure foundation for the investigation will be obtained most readily if several values of y can be deduced from investigations of local and seasonal peculiarities, more especially of those relating to organic metamorphoses and processes, in various strata and at varying depths, in different soils at varying sea- sous. (8) In those parts of India where cholera is endemic it must be supposed that z is present in various quantities at different seasons, so that at one time the unvarying cholera germ (x) may give rise to little or no sickness, and then, again, in such quantity that an epidemic- spreading poison results. The presence of x being presupposed, the mass of z depends, in the first place, on the amount of y, and the quan- tity of y on the local and seasonal peculiarities of the soil. (9) The facts quite permit the assumption that x may be nurtured for some time in the human body, e. g. the intestines, and that it may, perhaps, there undergo a considerable augmentation in quantity; but in a case of cholera the human body is the field of action of z only, and can of itself, without the contact betwixt y and x, never produce z. (10) Sub- stances may gain access into the human organism, even from great depths in the earth, in two ways—through the water in the soil and through the air in the soil. The latter mode appears to obtain in cholera. (11) Whilst x, y, and z appear to be communicable from one place to another, even to great distances, not through the air, but by human intercourse in a totally different manner, x of itself, when im- ported into a house or other place, cannot produce the disease in man; but in proportion as it is present and z becomes developed can z pro- duce cholera. A certain amount of z imported into a locality may also, without the presence of?/, produce cholera locally in those individually predisposed, these cases being the produce of the y of another locality, which was necessary for the generation of the z which was imported. Commerce seems to be the most active agent in the spread of x, pro- bably, in general, by means of the excreta, in which, however, there is, with much probability, scarcely ever so much fertile cholera poison (r) as to generate cases of cholera. When z is disseminated by inter- course, this invariably depends mainly on the introduction of the germ x. Z and x appear to accumulate in greatest quantity, to best keep their peculiar qualities, and to be most easily transported to great dis- tances, in damp linen sullied by choleraic diarrhoea ; and, according to present experience, they retain their infective properties, without y, for a period of twenty-one days. (12) The first extension of cholera beyond the frontiers of India towards Europe coincides with the first twenty years of the present century, and with commencement of a great acceleration of, and increase in, human intercourse by sea. The first