KIDNEY. URINE. 31 demy of Sciences, maintains that the electrical currents so easily demon- strable in muscle, nerve, and other tissues passing from the interior to the exterior through a conductor, are due to the reaction of the fluids of the interior, which are alkaline, on the fluids of the exterior, which are acid or neutral. As putrefaction advances the interior becomes the most strongly acid, and the current then flows in an inverse direction. M. Maury* had previously ingeniously investigated the movements of the wings of hymenopterous insects in flying by gilding their tips, and shown that they describe a figure of eight; and he now, by making the wing touch a smoked glass, shows that the wing moves from behind forwards, both in its descent and in its ascent. The plane of the wing changes twice during its revolution ; during the descent the wing pre- sents its superior face a little forward, during the ascent this face a little backwards. Some good papers by Henke will be found on the Muscle and Joints in Henle and Pfeuffer's ' Zeitschrift,' xxxiii, p. 108. See also S. Haugh- ton.f on the difference between a hand and a foot, as shown by their flexor tendons. KIDNEY.—DEINE. Demet. Eindowsky, of Charkow, j has instituted a series of microsco- pical examinations of the lymphatics of the kidney in the dog and horse, and finds that they accompany the blood-vessels (arteries as well as veins) in the adventitia of which they run; the larger arteries are accompanied by two, which form a plexus around each. The vas efferens is also surrounded by a lymphatic plexus, which penetrates with it into the interior of the Malpighian capsule, and the several branches of which are continued to the glomerulus. Moreover, the efferent vessel is surrounded by a plexus of lymphatics, as are the tortuous and straight urinary tubules. All the lymphatics, even to the minutest branches, possess proper walls with an epithelial investment. 0. Pollack § has investigated the urine of infants of both sexes whilst at the breast, and varying in age from eight days to two and a half months. The quantity varied from 250—410 CC.; the colour was always very pale; the reaction acid; the sp. gr. roo^ —C007. The quantity of urea discharged in twenty-four hours varied from 1—2 grammes. The uric acid is relatively large, o-i—0-2 grammes in the same period. The inorganic salts, and especially the earthy phosphates, are in small quantity. The fluid was cloudy from the presence of mucus, and more Bugar (derived from the milk) was found than in the adult. Grehant|| publishes his physiological researches on the excretion of urea by the kidneys, showing that the kidneys, so far as the urea is concerned, are purely excretory, and in no way secretory organs. Cyon^ maintains that the urea is in part, at least, formed in the liver. Though scarcely proper to include under this heading, we may refer * ' Comptes Rendus,' 1869, p. 667. f ' Proceed. Roy. Soc.,' xviii, p. 359. % ' Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,' No. 10, 1869. § 'Jahrbuch f. Kinderlieilkunde N. F,' ii, p. 27. II ' Bibliotbtque de l'Ecole des Hautes Etudes Sect. d. sc. Nat.,' i, p. 265. *i 'Centralblatt/ No. 37, 1870.