430 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Dr. Wiltshire relates a case of severe convulsions setting in with labour. ^ Pulse 180; respirations 80 per minute; legs cedematous; urine highly albuminous; head presenting; membranes entire. She was put under chloroform. The cervix was dilated by Barnes' bags, and a dead child was delivered by forceps. Dr. Wiltshire is clear in his opinion that the fits were checked by the chloroform, and that by this and the acceleration of the labour the patient was saved. (' Prac- titioner,' 1870.) Dr. von Seydewitz describes one case treated by chloral. The patient was epileptic, and fits came on some days after labour. Recovery followed. ('Obstetrical Transactions,' 1871.) Dr. Bowsted relates two cases in which subcutaneous injection of two minims of Fleming's tincture of aconite and one third of a grain of morphia seemed remarkably successful. Dr. Karl Schroeder discusses the nature of fibrinous and placental polypi. Reverting to the opinion of Kiwisch, that fibrinous polypi might arise from a kind of uterine apoplexy independently of concep- tion, Schroeder cites cases in support of Scanzoni's view that fibrinous polypi only arise after abortion, and that the stalk is formed by decidua hanging to the uterine wall. He sets forth the doubt whether the uterus in its ordinary state will expand to allow the formation of a clot in its cavity. The uterine wall must be relaxed or morbid for this. In some cases, however, fibrin-polypi form after placenta has been entirely expelled; in these the fibrin adheres to the rough surface of the placental seat. When this occurs after labour, at term, or near term, haemorrhage comes on in about a fortnight. Placental polypi may form when portions of placenta are left adhering, or when the entire placenta has been retained. The os internum uteri generally keeps open until the uterus is emptied, thus facilitating diagnosis. (' Scanzoni's Beitrage,' 1870.) V.—The Child. Dr. Crede describes and figures a remarkable example of mal- formation of the foetus caused by amniotic bands, a condition first explained by the late Dr. Montgomery. He discusses minutely the conditions which might lead to the formation of these bands. He thinks that in the human ovum contractions of the uterus or powerful emotions may produce changes of volume, such as Darest produced in his experiments on hens' eggs. They surrounded the eggs with an air-tight envelope, or exposed them to changes of temperature, and thus often produced malformations. Darest, in this way, once pro- duced a thread proceeding from the skull. (' Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' June, 1869.) Dr. Hennig describes ('Arch. f. Gynak.,' 1870) a child eight days old exhibiting on both extremities contractions and amputations. He attributed the malformations to the action of amniotic bands. Dr. P. Beuss discusses (Scanzoni's ' Beitrage,' 1869), under the title " Intra-uterine Spontaneous Amputation," the same subject. He reviews the literature of the subject. Since Montgomery, contributions