EXTROVERSION OF THE BLADDER. 249 p. i) a peculiar case of spina bifida. The sac consisted of two distinct parts. Mr. Sidebottoin records a case in which he ligatured a spina bifida in the lumbar region, of the size of an orange, two days after birth. Three separate ligatures were used on successive days. Beyond slight clonic convulsions, lasting a few hours on the second occasion, no evil symptoms followed. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 25th, 1869.) M. Eoux, in the 'Bulletin de Therapeutique,' has published the case of a girl six weeks old, who had a spina bifida of the sacral region. He injected a diluted solution of iodine, the aperture into the spinal canal being compressed as far as possible by an assistant, and the injection being removed, after five minutes, by the suction power of the syringe. A cure resulted. Extroversion of the bladder.—Mr. John Wood has contributed to the ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' Hi, p. 85, his experience of operative interfer- ence in cases of fission and extroversion of the bladder with epispadias. He has operated on eight. In seven he made a complete covering for the bladder. The eighth was that of a very young' female, and was totally unsuccessful on account of the child's crying. His latest plan is to turn down at the first operation a large and long umbilical flap, with its skin surface next the bladder, and long enough to reach the root of the penis. _ This flap is covered by two lateral flaps taken from the groin with their bases towards the penis, scrotum and thigh, so as to be nourished by the superficial branches of the femoral artery, and united in the median line over the umbilical or reversed one, with their raw surfaces in contact with it. In the second stage, the author pro- vides a preputial covering for the glans penis from the scrotum and under surface of the penis, which he raises from the deeper part in the form of a bridge of skin retained at both ends to its original connec- tions, and lifted in the middle over and across the penis like a saddle. This is placed with its raw surface in contact with that of a reversed fold of skin, turned over from the sides of the opening left by the first operation, the whole being held together by a continuous wire suture. The sides of the wound in the scrotum are then brought together vertically over the tunica? vaginales and testes, the hinder half of the bag of the scrotum being amply sufficient to cover the whole. Hairs sometimes cause trouble, but are partly destroyed by the urine, and the others may be easily removed with forceps. In the second stage, just described, the flap to form a preputial covering, consisting, in the whole front of the scrotum, and the skin covering the lower side of the penis should be thick enough to include the dartos scroti. A3 to the result, the author states that this can be realised by actual insertion only. In the case of an adult man exhibited before the Society, the transplanted dartos encircled and embraced the newly formed urethra, so that when the finger was introduced into the bladder it was clasped and held with considerable force. An instrument could easily be fixed around the urethra without including the scrotum, and the whole of the urine passed over the urethral channel as over the spout of a jug, with very little trickling down the sides. Afterwards