SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION. 475 M. E. Dubout* proposes another test to distinguish between real and apparent death. He instils into the eye a few drops of a solution of atropine. If there be no action on the pupil it may be affirmed that muscular contractility has disappeared, and hence that life is quite ex- tinct. It will always be necessary, however, to resort to a counter- proof, and we have in the action of substances (such as Calabar bean) which cause contractility of the pupil a very simple means of avoiding error. Spontaneous Combustion. Dr. Alexander Ogston,f of Aberdeen, publishes a case of this rare, and somewhat doubtful, phenomenon that came under his own observa- tion, and detads^several other cases that have occurred in the practice of other physicians' He is of opinion that all the trustworthy cases re- corded speak merely for increased combustibility on accidental ignition, and not for spontaneous ignitability. The possibility of, or mode of origin of, spontaneous ignition, he thinks, need not be discussed, since there is not in one of the trustworthy cases the slightest call upon us to assume its existence. Dr. Ogston's case is stated as follows :—" On the 14th March, 1869, my father and I were requested to examine the re- mains of Mrs. Warrack or Ross, ret. 66, who resided alone in a house near the Bridge of Dee, Aberdeen. She was said to have been stout, of in- temperate habits, and her son stated that he had left her, at 10 a.m. on the 14th, in her usual health. She was found at 11 a.m. on the same day, lying burnt on the lower steps of the stairs of her house, on her left side. The house was pervaded with a disagreeable smell, but more like that of burning straw than of burning animal matter. The room which she usually inhabited, the door of which was within two yards of the place where she lay, had the same smell. The chair in which she sat stood in the middle of the room, its back almost entirely consumed, and its arms entirely so. The seat of the chair showed traces of the action of fire. The bed, about two feet from her chair, had its straw mattress slightly burnt at its fore part. The woodwork of the bed and the curtains were uninjured. Her chair was about four feet from the fireplace, and about two feet from an uninjured mahogany table, on which stood an empty beer bottle smelling of whisky. Nothing else in the room was touched by fire. The stairs were of wood, and underneath and in the immediate vicinity of where she lay they were charred to the depth of a quarter of an inch. The perpendicular bars of the hand- rails similarly charred beside her for a feot up ; the top rail and the wall, which was half a foot from the hand-rail, blackened by smoke. The condition of the body, however, showed that the fire had caused the greatest alterations in it. The hair was burnt off, the soft parts of the face and front of the head burnt off, the bones exposed, blackened, and calcined. The back of the head, the neck, and the trunk everywhere, converted into greasy charcoal to the depth of about an inch, the skin totally removed, and the bones of the trunk lying bare, blackened, and * 'Arcliiv. Gen.,' Aug. 1870, p. 240. t 'Med.-Chir. Itcv.,' xlv, p. 189.