ANEURISM. 281 pounds on the femoral artery is noted in tho ' Lancet,' Dec. j8, 1869, by Mr. AY. D. Longficld. Various other means had been tried. A figure of tho apparatus used is given. °In a case of popliteal aneurism, in which pressure on the femoral had led to gaugrene of the parts pressed on, M. Verneuil tried flexion of the knee, and the pressure of the weight of the limb only on a conical pad. A cure resulted. M. Verneuil suspected that the liability to crano-rene might be associated with diabetes. He therefore examined the urine. Sugar in considerable quantity was found. The man improved under treatment. Digital compression.—-Mr. Maunder records a case of popliteal aneu- rism in which digital compression, kept up for twenty-two hours and thirty-five minutes, resulted in a cure, after other measures had failed. For a fortnight, flexion of the knee had been tried, then for three months compression of the femoral by a weight or tourniquet was carefully carried out without any favorable result. (' Med. Times and Gazette,' April 10,1869.) Some remarks by Mr. Maunder on the theory and the'method of cure of aneurism will be found in the same journal for March 13. Mr. Bryant narrates a case in which an aneurism of one popliteal artery was cured by digital compression for twenty-four hours by stude'nts, and subsequently one on the opposite side, by digital com- pression, by the patient himself for four hours and a half. (' Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' xiv, p. 241.) A case in which a cure resulted after the employment of flexion, pressure hj means of weight, Heeding and digital compression, is narrated by Mr. Bloomfield. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' April 2, 1870.) Popliteal aneurism.—Cases of popliteal aneurism, one cured by flexion, another cured by acupressure of the femoral artery, another followed by death from mortification after acupressure, are narrated and tabulated. ('Boston City Hosp. Sep.,' 1870, p. 477.) A man, set. 36, had an aneurism in the left popliteal space, and was admitted into Guy's Hospital under Mr. Birkett. A tourniquet was applied to the femoral for ten days with the effect of consolidating the tumour. La seven months he had an aneurism in the right popliteal space. Two tourniquets were used, one on the upper part and one on the lower part of the femoral. The aneurism was cured in seven hours. ('Lancet,' Feb. 13, 1869.) M. Legouest records a case in which six different plans of compres- sion were tried in the course of a fortnight. Finally, for five days forced intermittent flexion of leg on thigh for an hour at a time every morning and evening effected a cure. (' Gazette des Hopitaux,' No. 48, 1869.) Flexion.—Dr. Buck records a case of successful treatment of aneurism of the groin by flexion of the thigh, after a relapse following a previous apparent cure by compression. ('Amer. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 1870, p. 69.)