109 EPILEPSY. not invariably present. In the first case, the attacks were often much more prolonged than usual; and, indeed, it was not always easy to dis- tinguish between the paroxysmal and inter-paroxysmal disorders • the former resembling at one time a prolonged general tremor, without loss of consciousness, at another time consisting solely of giddiness. In the second case, at some former period under Trousseau and Jac- coud, who had differed as to whether the disease was hysterical or epi- leptic, there was tonic spasm of the right arm and leg, with epileptic paroxysms, both occurring at the same time, and separated by an interval of seven years. Soffray (" Epilepsie provoquee par la frayeur;" ' G-az. des Hop.,' 1869, 94) narrates that at Mostagenem in Algeria, in 1850, a kitten, frightened at the sight of a caracal in the writer's rooms, was attacked an hour afterwards with very violent epileptiform convulsions, preceded by sharp cries, and frequently repeated till the animal died at the end of from eight to fifteen days.* Marbaix ('Press Med. Beige,' 1869, 237) gives a case of epilepti- form convulsions more or less resembling hydrophobia in a man who had been bitten four days before by a cat; they were accompanied by delirium and hyperesthesia of the optic' nerve,~a stray light thrown across his eyes causing a convulsive attack. The shortness of the in- cubation, the blueness of the face, without the "vultueuse" expression characteristic of hydrophobia, the delirium, and the melancholy, not exalted, condition, combined with a history of an epileptic attack a year before, prevented the case being looked upon as one of true hydro- phobia. Huard ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 534) gives a case of confirmed epilepsy in a boy, set. 10 years, who had been treated by a homoeopath for three years without any relief, but in whose condition extraordinary amelioration was obtained by the employment of six gramme doses of bromide of potassium. Marechal (ib., 255) quotes See, who treated three epileptics, one in 1857, one in 1859, and another m 1861, with bromide of potassium; since using the drug they had had no further attacks: he quotes also five cases under Becoulet. He lays great stress upon the mode of using it: with Gubler and Legrand he denounces the pills in which it is combined with iron, the two drugs being antagonistic, and a great number of the pills being necessary before any effect is produced, and strongly recom- mends the syrup of Henry Mure, each tablespoonful of which contains exactly two grammes of the bromide of potassium, free from the iodide. At page 157 of the same journal he gives an abstract of a discussion in the Medical Society of Bordeaux, at which different physicians bore witness to the good effects of the drug. Tyrrell ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869, ii, 143) thinks that there is a common form of epilepsy, in which anaemia and defective nervous control are the prominent symptoms, the majority of patients being women, in whom it appears as petit mal at or between the periods of menstruation. * The date seems uncertain; cf. ante Broadbent's chorea cases—two from fright— and the common occurrence, both in animals and human subjects, of the two (?) affec- tions from this cause.—A. B. S.