355 SUltGEUY. of extreme value and importance, which is also remarkable as being his last publication, but which is too lengthy, and too full of matter to be capable of any profitable condensation in the space here available. It deals with all the varieties of glaucoma, but in an especial manner with those that are secondary in their character, and consequent upon pre- existing forms of eye disease. A slightly condensed translation, by Mr. "Windsor, appears in the first number of the ' Ophthalmic Hospital Beports' for 1871. Drs. Hippel and Griinhagen* have continued their researches into the influence of the nerves upon intra-ocular pressure ; and Adamiuk read a paper on the subject, before the Heidelberg Congress of 1869, which was followed by a prolonged discussion. The same authorf has also written on the affect of atropine in altering tension. TersonJ relates a case in which a piece of iron, half as large as a grain of wheat, had been encysted for forty-three years by the side of a dislocated crystalline lens. Berlin§ has published two cases of the extraction of a foreign sub- stance from the corpus vitreum. He lays stress upon the importance of localising a defect of the field of vision, as a guide to the position which a foreign body occupies within the eye. Dr. C. A. Eobertson reports || some curious phenomena resulting from reflex nervous action in consequence of traumatic lesion of the eye. _ A man, aged forty-one, received a severe blow on the left eye at the time when Dr. Eobertson saw him. Staphyloma of the sclera and cornea had formed, globe very hard, cornea insensitive to touch, very little pain, no perception of light. After two months staphyloma in- creased greatly, and spontaneous rupture took place and was repeated two or three times afterwards. The patient refused enucleation. After several additional months Dr. Eobertson was called to see him, suffer- ing from symptoms thought to be precursory of typhoid fever or due to some kidney trouble. " The patient was exceedingly weak, and without appetite. The pulse was full and soft; skin moist, but sometimes (as stated to me) dry and hot; tongue moist, coated white; urine scanty and bowels constipated. A frequent twitching or spasm of the body occurred. Expression of the face dull, almost stolid. The fingers of one hand were constantly rubbing or working on the ala of the left nostril. The patient made no remark except when questioned or when startled by a sudden noise. In answer to a question he said his eye did not hurt him, but he had darting pains in the head. The staphyloma was larger than I had seen it before. His manner was listless, and his mind en- feebled rather than delirious, although he was sometimes decidedly delirious at night, as his wife stated. He would wake frequently as if from a frightful dream, and spring up excitedly in bed, trembling with * 'Arch. f. 0.,' 1869, P- 265. t 'Annales d'Oculist.,' 1870, p. 108. j ' Revue Med. de Toulouse/ 1870, p. 12. § 'Archives of Ophthalmology and Otology.' I1 'Trans. Am.Oph. Soc.,' 1870, pp. no—113.