50 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Quincke publishes several cases of excessively high death temperature in enteric fever, rheumatism, tubercular meningitis, &c. (' Berl. Klin. Wochensch.,' 1869, p. .301). After giving a brief historical sketch of the question since Eeil first noticed changes in the nails after febrile disturbances in 1792, Vogel (£ Deut. Archiv,' vii, s. 332) describes his own observations made during the last three years. According to him the nails of the fingers and great toes, especially after typhus, but also after pneumonia, acute rheu- matism, and measles, present the following changes: dulness of the natural lustre; a white, anaemic stripe over the lanula in several or all the fingers ; transverse furrows and ridges ; falling off of the nail. The furrows continue to be visible for nine or ten months after the illness, and when observed may be used as diagnostic signs of a former tvphus. " Unruh (' Virch. Arch.,' lviii, s. 227) gives the results of the examina- tion as to the excretion of nitrogen in febrile affections, undertaken in twenty-eight cases. The ages of the patients were between fifteen and forty-eight, the majority between twenty and thirty. There were nine cases of pneumonia, four of typhus (T. exanthematicus), three of enteric fever (ileotyphus), two of relapsing fever, two of syphilis, two of acute rheumatism, and one of trichinosis. The remainder were cases of local inflammation. The temperature of each case was taken once a day, and all the urine passed in twenty-four hours collected and analysed. From the tables given in the paper the following conclusions appear to result: (1) The greatest excretion of nitrogen (measured by the addition of the amount calculated from the daily excretion of urea, uric acid, and creatinin) does not coincide with the highest temperature, especially when the latter occurred early in the fever. (2) The amount of nitrogen is greater during the abatement ot the pyrexia than at its height. , (3) In the case of ill-nourished patients, the excretion of nitrogen is usually very small, however high the temperature. (4) On the average of the twenty-eight febrile cases, the excretion of nitrogen was half as much again as in health; in some of the cases it was twice as much. (<) The increase of heat theoretically due to this amount ot increased oxidation of nitrogen is not enough to account for the increment of temperature in each case separately. _ , (6) Uric acid is not excreted in increased quantity during pyrexia, unless there is also some obstruction to respiration. Naunyn (" TJeber das Yerhalten des Harnstoff-auscheidung beim Fieber " ' Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1869, p. 42) made experiments on does in confirmation of the views of Traube, Jachinann, Vogel &c as to the increased secretion of urea in fever in men. His first set ot experiments having proved this, he proceeded to inquire whether the increased secretion of urea is primary, and the cause of the increased temperature, or whether the hitter is the cause ot the former; and from fresh experiments he concluded that the increased secretion ot urea