1 REPORT. ON THE PKOGBESS OF PHYSIOLOGY AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES, DURING THE TEARS 1869 AND 1S70. BY HENRY POWER, E.R.C.S., M.B. Lojtd., EXAMINEE IN PHYSIOLOGY AND COMPARATIVE ANATOMY IN THE UNIYEESITY OF LONDON ; SENIOE OPHTHALMIC SUEGEON TO ST. BAETHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. The interesting reports of Dr. Carpenter* on the dredging opera- tions undertaken by him, Proff. "Wyville Thompson, Gwyn Jeffreys, and others, in H.M. surveying vessels " Porcupine" and " Lightning,'' and those of Prof. Agassiz, in deep sea-water, claim the first place in any account of the advance of biological science during the past two years, as from them not only has much information been obtained in respect to the temperature of the ocean at different depths and over different areas, but the existence of a very large and previously unsuspected variety of animal life has been conclusively established, the greater number of forms,, indeed, being of a low type, but mingled also with others of much higher organization. The sea bottom of extensive regions m the North Atlantic Ocean has been shown by these investi- gations to consist of a stratum of calcareous mud, technically called " ooze," partly composed of living and dead Globigerina! and partly of bodies termed Coccoliths and Coccospheres. Besides these, various Corals, Echinodermata, Crustacea, Conchifera, and Gasteropoda were brought up; and it is a matter of extreme inte- rest to notice that many of the species obtained are new to science, and that several were supposed to be extinct as tertiary fossils. The exist- ence of well-developed eyes, as well as the brilliant coloration of many of the species, seem to prove that light is not so entirely absent as has been commonly assumed, even at depths of 14,000 feet, or nearly three miles. In Dr. Carpenter's cruise around the Parb'e Islands the tem- perature of the surface was everywhere nearly the same (about 520 ± ahr.), whilst the lowest temperature of the bottom was 29-6° Eahr., the intermediate mass presenting variations of temperature not in all * ' Proceed Roy. Society,' 1869-70; 'Proceed. Roy. Instit.'Nature,' vol. i; 'The Student,' vol. 111; and elsewhere.