405 DYSTOCIA FROM TUMOURS. plunged in let off a pint of pus. The attachment was to the left hroad ligament; it was secured by ligature, and the tumour with three inches of the Fallopian tube were removed. The tumour contained thick curdy pus and a mass of fine black hair. Sho recovered, and afterwards menstruated by the stump of the pedicle. ('Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc.,' Oct., 1869.) Dr. Bixby relates a very remarkable case in which Dr. H. R. Storer extirpated the puerperal uterus, complicated with a tumour, by abdomi- nal section. The tumour contracted, the pelvis to such an extent as to leave only one and a half inch of space for passage of finger. It was decided to be impossible to deliver per vias naturales. It was deter- mined to make a small exploratory abdominal section, so as to be able to tap the tumour should it turn out to be ovarian. It was found, however, to be a fibro-cystic tumour of the left and lower anterior wall of the uterus, with an outgrowth nearly the size of the fetal head, originally pediculated, but now firmly adherent low down to the walls of the uterus. The uterus itself was much retroflexed. The tumour was cut into and found to be undergoing degeneration; profuse haemor- rhage set in. A child weighing 8 lb. was removed, it and placenta being also decomposing. The haemorrhage continued, and the uterus had no power of contracting. There appeared no resource but to remove the whole mass as far as possible. A large trocar was passed through tbe upper segment of the cervix uteri, and a metallic cord passed through its canula, aud the whole was firmly tied in two parts. The mass was removed by ecraseur; the stump seared with hot iron and clamped. A portion of the outgrowth which adhered to the pelvic wall was necessarily left behind. The patient died on the fourth day. ('Journ. of Gynaecological Soc. of Boston,' Oct. 1869.) Dr. O. Kidd relates an interesting case of ovarian tumour complicat- ing pregnancy. The tumour occupied the brim of the pelvis at the commencement of labour, the membranes ruptured, and the tumour became tightly pressed into the pelvis ; it was solid. After discussing puncture or Caesarian section, it was determined to try to lift the tumour out of the pelvis by distending one of Barnes' bags in the rec- tum. This was done, the patient being placed on her hands and knees. , This succeeded, and a living child was born. He relates another case in which the tumour did not get into the pelvis ; the woman was delivered twice at term without accident. ('Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med.,' May, 1870.) Dr. Leonard Sedgwick relates two very interesting cases of fibrous tumour complicating pregnancy and labour. A lady in her second preg- nancy was much prostrated by obstinate vomiting; at the end the abdominal walls were like soft parchment. Towards the middle of the posterior wall of the uterus was a fibrous tumour as big as a walnut, and in its front were four more about the same size, firm, without stalk, and visibly projecting. She was delivered at term of a healthy boy: she then rapidly recovered. Pregnant a third time, and being very thin, accurate examination was easy. There was no inordinate morning sickness, and no tumour to be found ; in several successive pregnancies no tumours could be found.