476 MiPOET ON MEDICAL JUItiSPllUDEXCE. calcined. The front wall of the nhdomen totally destroyed and want- ing; the intestines burned into a hard and blackened mass; the liver converted into ashes to the depth of an inch, but retaining its shape, its left lobe projecting nino inches from the margins of the ribs. The upper limbs distorted; the elbows strongly Hexed and everywhere charred to a great depth, the bones, however, even of the fingers, pre- serving their position. The right thigh had its muscles still uncharred, but of the appearance of roasted beef, and very dry ; the skin and super- ficial muscles totally burnt away. The right leg only partially attached to the thigh, and entirely converted into a greasy, black, charred mass, even the bones not escaping. At the lower part of this right leg the bones had the soft parts entirely burnt away from them, and were black and calcined. The right foot totally detached from the leg, and con- verted into a soft, black, greasy, and shapeless cinder, through which the finger could be pushed with ease. The left leg and thigh in a condition similar to that of the right extremity, but still attached to the foot, which was a charred and shrivelled mass similar to the right foot. Not a vestige of clothing remained anywhere." Dr. Ogston is inclined to adopt Dupuytren's explanation, that when the fire gains the clothes it burns the skin, which cracks and allows the fat to run out; part of this flows down on the floor, the rest serves to support the combustion, and with free access of air everything is burnt. Insanity. One of the most important questions that has arisen within the last two years relating to the forensic aspects of insanity is that of fractured ribs, several cases having occurred in which it seemed doubtful whether fractures, discovered only on post-mortem examination, had arisen from natural causes, or were the result of excessive violence with no predis- position to fracture. Dr. Clouston,* of Carlisle, and others, having called attention to the altered condition of the ribs in cases of general paralysis, Dr. T. L. Rogers,t with the chemical assistance of Dr. J. C. Brown, submitted these ribs to a more rigorous test than mere tactile examination. It was found that the ratio of organic constituents to earthy matter is much greater, while the ratio of lime to phosphoric acid is distinctly less in the ribs of paralytics than in those of healthy adults, and that there are the same differences between the composition of healthy ribs and those of paralytica as between the composition of the adult large bones and those of the foetus. Generally, the composition in cases of paralysis approaches that observed in cases of osteo-malachia. The Dones submitted to analysis were limited to those taken from the bodies of patients who had died of general paralysis. The result of the analysis is suggestive rather than conclusive as to the condition of the bones in patients the subjects of general paralysis. As far as it goes, it shows that in this disease the composition of the bones is changed by * ' Lancet,' 1870, i, p. 191. f ' Liverpool Med. and Surg. Rep.,' iv, p. 85.