POISONING. communicates the results of his prolonged and difficult researches on the venom of serpents. He settles beyond doubt the harmlessness of the venom when ingested; and he shows, moreover, that it is indif- ferent whether digestion be active at the time or the stomach empty. In every case the animal escapes, nor does the amount of the poison seem in any way to affect the result. The series of experiments by which this curious immunity was settled and its causes studied is too long for detail. It showed that all mucous membranes refused passage to the venom, save only the lining of the lesser bronchi and air-cells, if, indeed, these membranes can be said to be mucous in character. "When a teaspoonful of venom was given to a pigeon (one fourth of a drop of venom is fatal to a pigeon if injected into the blood or tissues), and its fieces and intestinal contents were collected, they were in two or three days altogether free from the toxic power of venom. These experi- ments were beset with difficulty, because the infusions made from the intestinal contents were themselves often competent to kill if no venom was present.* "While the mucous membranes deny passage to venom, the serous membranes allow it to pass through them with a singular ease, and to this there is no exception. The continuous hasmorrhage from fang wounds, and the secondary extravasations which usually have been assigned to some blood alteration alone, are attributed to a strange weak- ening of the small vessels. Dr. Mitchell suspects that observers will soon discover for other serpents, as he has done for the rattlesnake, that the mortality of their fang wounds has been grossly exaggerated, and says that if this be properly understood we shall hear less of the high value, as antidotes, of the many innocent substances, such as olive oil, snake- root, or common salt. Let the physician, he says, called to see a bitten person calmly estimate the chances for his patient, noting if he have one or two fang marks, and ascertaining if the snake were a cap- tive and had been a long time without using his teeth. Thus prepared, and aware that the bite is not of necessity fatal, he will be less apt to resort to the frantic therapeutics of quarts of strong whisky and the like. "When any one has been bitten the finger should be at once sur- rounded by a broad band on the cardiac side of the injury, or the like precaution taken on the arm ; then the bitten part should be cut out, or the finger amputated, or burnt with a red-hot iron. No other local means are worth much at this stage of the poisoning. In any case free incision is proper, and the use of a cupping-glass, where this can be had in time, and where the point attacked allows of its employment. The next step is to reassure the patient as much as possible, so as to lesseu his alarm, and as soon as he feels sick or weak, and the pulse flags, he should be stimulated with enough alcohol in some shape to restore his powers and increase the heart-force. By this time the part bitten will most likely be swollen. The ligature must be relaxed, and as soon as the poison begins to tell on the general system it is to be tightened afresh, and the stimulus given anew. Under any circumstances of local treatment there will be left in the wound poison, which must at some time enter the general blood current, and by this plan of intermittent * Vide ' Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' 1866, p. 37, and this ' Retrospect,' 1865-6, p. 453, for limilar observations by Drs. Hilton Fagge and Thos. Stevenson.