15 SALIVA. Adolf Mayer* discusses the mode iu which pepsin affects digestion. The physiology of the intestinal secretion is discussed by Alexis Dobro- slawiu, in Kollett's ' Untersuchungeu aus dem Institut fur Physiol, in Graz.' Gr. Pfliigerf has made a series of researches on the percentage propor- tion of the gases of the various secretions of the dog, with the following results: Saliva from submaxillary gland after meat diet. Urine. Milk. Bile. Per cent. o-6 Per cent. 007 Per ct. O'lO Per cent. Per cent. o-2 O-00 Carbonic acid removable by air pump . „ evolved by phosphoric acid 22'S 42'2 I4"3° 070 7-60 o-oo I4"4 5" 41*8 o-6o Total .... 64'7 7 60 56-1 5-60 o-8 o-88 07 0*4 o-6o SALIVA. MayerJ states that, after a very careful investigation of the salivary glands of a large number of animals in part prepared according to Pfluger's instructions and in part by other methods, he finds that, con- trary to the statements of this observer, nerves rarely occur in the parenchyma of the salivary glands, those that are present chiefly belong- ing to the non-medullated fibres. He has never been able to trace any connection between medullated nerve-fibres and the alveoli, or to dis- cover the free extremity of a non-medullated fibre in them when the appearances resembled those described and delineated by Pfliiger. Fur- ther examination showed that the supposed nerves were really capillary vessels. He corroborates, however, the statement of Pfliiger that the nuclei have processes communicating with corresponding ones from ad- joining cells, and he thinks that these may perhaps be the terminations of the finest non-medullated secretory nerve-fibres. Ewald,§ from injections made by means of constant mercurial pressure, corroborates the recent statements advanced respecting the configuration of the finest salivary ducts. He is opposed to the views of Heidenhain in respect to the so-called " crescent " or demilune found in the alveoli. Heidenhain demonstrated that the form of the excited gland differed considerably from the gland at rest; the alveoli in the former, moreover, being filled with protoplasmatic, the latter with disintegrated mucous * 'Zeits. f. Biologic' v, 1869, p. 310. + ' Pfluger's Archiv,' i and ii. X ' Schultze's Archiv f. Mikroskop. Anat.,' vi, p. 100. § ' Centralblatt, No. 37, 1870.