*™ REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. other cages the two things appeared together, or the albuminuria was so scanty that the dropsy could not be referred to it. Headache is constant m older children, generally in the forehead. Convulsions partial or general, are a further sign. They either usher in the kidney disease, and are then, even if severe, not of bad prognosis, since they mostly vanish when the secretion of urine becomes more copious • or the convulsions set in at the end of the Bright's disease, in which case they are almost always the forerunner of death. Concurrently a more or less marked torpor or comatose state lasts until collapse and death. Delirium is rare in children under four, but appears as a rule after five! It disappears with increasing diuresis or advancing coma. Complete blindness has been observed in some cases of scarlatinal Bright's dis- ease, lasting two or three days, or until death. One case of hemeralopia in acute Bright's disease was observed. The anatomical basis of this affection, according to the degree and duration, lies in a transitory attack of the retina by hypercemia or oedema, or in a profound alteration, as inflammation, or ecchymoses. Other complications are various dis- eases of the digestive organs, or chest; croupal affections of the mouth, oesophagus, bronchial catarrhs, pleurisy, and lung-tuberculosis. The last complications may easily lead to error, when, in a chronic nephritis, the dropsy failing, an accurate history or good analysis of the urine is not to be had. The author has frequently noticed hypertrophy of the left ventricle, and more frequently in chronic than in acute Bright's disease. The only subjective symptom, aud this only in elder children, is tenderness or pain in the region of the kidneys and down the course of the ureters. The causes of nephritis are remote and proximate. Of the first are those which affect the kidneys directly, as falls, blows, misuse of diure- tics. The indirect causes are scarlatina, measles, variola. The fre- quency of the complications of scarlatina with Bright's disease varied with the character of the epidemic. It ranged from 30 to 6 per cent. In tuberculosis and scrofula, of 105 cases after protracted suppurations from bone or joint-disease, in 22 Bright's disease appeared. The frequency of Bright's disease in infancy is further illustrated by Dr. Adolph Rjellbing (Mourn, f. Kinderkr.,' 1870), who, after citing the dicta of Billard, Valleix, Bouchut, Vogel, and Oerhardt, as to its extreme rarity, says the numerous autopsies he has made in the Stock- holm Children's Hospital, during an epidemic of measles, gave him fre- quent occasion to observe a parenchymatous inflammation in the kidneys. He then observed the same changes in the kidneys produced by several other diseases. Especially was this the case in catarrh of the intestines. During the six years 1863-8, 696 children exhibited, in 126, parenchymatous nephritis as a complication; that is, 1810 per cent., and of these 126 there was not one case following on scarlatina or measles. In 33 out of 260 cases of pneumonia, nephritis was found after death; in 4 out of 34 cases of croup and diphtheria ; in 4 out of 24 cases of meningitis; in 3 out of 22 cases of erysipelas ; in 4 out of 22 of puerperal pyaemia; in 9 out of 31 of syphilis; and in 67 out of 143 fatal cases of intestinal catarrh, acute and chronic. The author passes rapidly over other diseases to consider more especially nephritis