135 THORACIC TUMOURS—PLEURISY. bulging of tho stcruum j asymmetry of the two sides of the thorax; displacement of the heart, &c.; cyanosis and coderna of the face and upper extremities from compressed vessels, and difference of pulse on the two sides j sometimes eularged thyroid, with more or less exophthal- mos; symptoms caused by pressure on the trachea or oesophagus; in the majority of cases enlargement of the neighbouring glands. To these were added pains of various degrees in the affected region, dyspnoea in- creased to true orthopncea, and a cough, at first dry, later with purulent and sometimes blood-streaked expectoration. Bennett, iu his lectures on " The Natural History and Diagnosis of Intra-thoracic Cancer" ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870,i, 541, &c), refers to various cases of mediastinal tumours, and records (ib., ii, 1) an almost unique case occurring in a young man 33t. 19, who had, for some time, paroxysmal attacks of dyspnoea, which became more frequent for three days before his death. Some diffused enlargement at the base of the neck was noticed during life. The autopsy showed great enlargement of the thyroid body, the lateral lobes of which had passed down behind the top of the sternum, had twisted the trachea to the left, and com- pressed it in such a way that, below the opening made in tracheotomy, it was completely flattened laterally to within half an inch of the bifurcation. Pleurisy, Sfc. Laveran (' Bee. de Mem. Milit.,' 1869, xxiii, p. 425) publishes the fol- lowing :—A healthy man, set. 39, was admitted into hospital, July 29th, 1869, having been ill for eight days, without jaundice or fever; there was dulness of the right thorax as high as the nipple, and the liver was lower than normal. He complained of pain in the hepatic region and right shoulder. On August 1st he was emaciated and anaemic, still with- out fever, vomiting, or abdominal pain. On the 2nd he was suddenly attacked with violent pains in the right side and dyspneea. On the 4th percussion gave a tympanitic sound under the right clavicle,accompanied, on the 5th, by amphoric breathing in the right supra-spinous fossa and increased dyspneea. To these signs was added, on the 7th, dulness on the right side behind, mounting as high as the angle of the scapula. In the right hypochondrium the skin was red and (Edematous, not pain- ful on pressure, and presenting no fluctuation. On the 9th there was orthopncea, diarrhoea, and increased heat of skin; on the right chest, above the nipple, the skin was red and raised; with this was emphysema of the cellular tissue, reaching to the base of the neck. Small punctures made with a lancet gave exit to a very fetid gas, and on the nth to pus as well, which had a gangrenous odour. The dulness increased, and the patient gradually became collapsed and died on the 14th. The autopsy showed the right side filled with pus, the costal pleura uniformly covered with false membrane, and perforated at the level of the third and fourth intercostal spaces, and at the attachment of the diaphragm to the false ribs; the right lung compressed (carnified), but nowhere perforated. The diaphragm was thickened and indurated over a portion of its right half, its muscular tissue and its attachments destroyed, so