:;oo REPORT ON SURGERY. Oblique and direct hernia on the same side of the body.—In the ' Edin Med. Journal,' March, 1869, p. 784, Dr. John Chiene gives a detailed description of the appearances shown on the dissection of a man, set. 64, in the dissecting-rooms of the Edinburgh University. When the abdomen was opened two circular openings were found in the right inguinal region. They were of equal size. A well-marked ridge, formed by the epigastric artery, separated them ; another ridge, formed by the hypogastric artery, bounded the inner opening internally. The external corresponded to the internal ring; the internal to the lower and outer part of Hesselbach's triangle, where it is uncovered by con- joined tendon. A complete septum separated the sacs; neither com- municated with the tunica vaginalis. There appeared to be a tendency to a similar state of things on the left side of the body. A careful dis- section of the parts was made. The only covering common to both sacs was the spermatic fascia. The septum consisted of six layers. The only covering of necessity double was the peritoneum. The coverings from the transversalis fascia and the internal oblique would probably each have formed one bag, for both hernia?, if the latter had occurred suddenly. Eeferences to the bibliography of the subject are given. Two figures, one showing an external and the other an internal view, accompany the description. Operation for the cure of artificial anus after hernia.—Dr. Buchanan narrates the case of a woman who had long suffered from a femoral hernia, and in whom an artificial anus formed after an operation, when it became strangulated. An enterotome, fashioned on Dupuytren's description, was used for five days, at the end of which time it had eaten away a portion of the septum, between the two openings of the bowel, at the artificial anus. A motion soon passed by the natural passage. The actual cautery was used repeatedly to make the other opening close. Finally, aplastic operation completed the cure. ('Edin. Med. Journal,' April, 1869, p. 866.) Congenital diaphragmatic hernia.—An exhaustive paper on this subject, from the pen of Dr. T. A. G. Balfour, will be found in the ' Edin. Med. Journal,' April, 1869, p. 883. An interesting case of diaphragmatic hernia, a sac containing the stomach being found in the right chest, in a man, ast. 54, under care for stricture of the oesophagus, is described by Mr. J. D. Hill. (' Path. Trans.,' xxi, p. 154.) Mr. Holthouse relates a case of inguino-crural hernia, in a man, set. 2i. ('Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iii, p. 136.) Dr. Bryan records a case of large, femoral hernia, in a man, in which there was also the peculiarity that the testis on the affected side passed almost indifferently either into the thigh, through the crural canal, or into the scrotum through the external ring. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 18, 1869.) Foreign bodies in the oesophagus, Sfc.—The case of a gentleman who swallowed a brace-buckle with a piece of leather attached is recorded in