INTRA-UTEIIINE AMPUTATIONS. a croupous tnembrane-like investment of inflammatory origin, resem- bling mucous membrane. Ollivier describes an ulcer on tbe surface of the legs. Friedinger showed a foetus with symmetrical scars on various parts of its body. In two places were strong cicatricial contractions. So Kristeller's hypothesis may be accepted as explaining many cases at least. But it cannot explain such cases as hemicephalia with union of the skin of the cranium to the placenta. Strings of inflammatory origin of folds of amnion.—Montgomery thought these were formed out of organized lymph, and Simpson that they arose from local inflammation of the integuments of the foetus. Various explanations have been advanced. Inflammation of the am- nion has been assigned. Grurlt suggested that these bands or strings were processes from that membrane of the ovum out of which the foetus was developed, that is, from the umbilical vesicle or amnion. Grustave Braun considered it possible that folds of the amnion might entangle the limbs, and as facilitating this there may be deficient liquor amnii. Many cases are known of adhesion of the surface of the foetus to its membrane. In illustration of this condition, certain aborted ova are interesting. Hegar often found this membranous bridge stretched between the walls or floating free. Lange possesses an ovum on several parts of the amnion of which is a plastic condition, and in one spot a free-floating projection. Dohrn describes an embryo nine to ten weeks old, with a string-like wrinkle on the left leg connected by a ligamentous string with the umbilical cord. Beuss thus relates thirty- nine cases in which strings or amniotic folds with their effects were ob- served. Comparison of these cases shows that where a string exists it may like the umbilical cord surround a limb, but no case is known in which there was complete surrounding of the neck or trunk. The string is generally too short for that. Intra-uterine fractures.—This has already, in Mader and Martin's case, been considered as a cause of spontaneous amputation. Hippo- crates believed that the bones of the foetus might be broken by ex- ternal violence. Eigby saw a similar case ; but as a cause of amputa- tion fracture is certainly rare. Constrictions by the umbilical cord.—Cases of this kind are numerous. A s might be supposed, examples of complete amputation from this case are wanting, because the necessary pressure upon the limb would stop the circulation in the cord. Sometimes the investing umbilical cord lias been found adherent by plastic exudation with the constricted part of the fcetus. Eigby cites twenty cases in which constriction from the cord was observed. Cases without any demonstrated cause.—The question has been put whether amniotic strings may not disappear. Gr. Braun thought this possible. Fifty-one cases are ranged under this head. (As this memoir contains almost the only full investigation of the subject, it has been thought desirable to analyse it in some detail.) Spina bifida and hydrocephalus.—Mr. Amyot (' Med. Times and G-az.,' 1869) relates a case in which the head burst. Dr. F. J. Brown (ibid.) relates a similar case which occurred under his observation. M. Eoux records ('Bull, de Thcrap.,' 186(f) a cure of very large 28