47 CONTAGION AND INFECTION. duced into the peritoneal cavity of a young greyhound, a terrier a year old, and a grey rabbit; into the thigh-tnusclea of a white rabbit and a dog of a month old; and into the subcutaneous tissue of the neck of two guiuea-pigs. Of the three dogs, the autopsy of the first, six and a half weeks after, showed embolia of the liver and kidneys, but nothing like cancer; the second died inconsequence of the operation; the third gave negative results. The first rabbit died of pyaemia, the second of peritonitis. In both guinea-pigs the wound healed, and the organs of one were found after death perfectly healthy. The second was supposed to have been stolen by a cat before the autopsy could be made. The original bitch was inoculated in the muscles of the thigh with a portion of her own cancer, and died two days afterwards ; no secondary growths were found, and though the lymph glands supplied from the diseased mamma were swollen and cheesy, the author does not state that they were cancerous. In commenting on these results, in the main nega- tive, he calls attention to the great frequency of cancerous and other tumours in cats, dogs, rabbits, &c. &c, and refers to the striking case of'"die Weber'sche Katze" ('Virch. Archiv,' xxix, 187), which died during the operation of inoculation, and was found to have already cancer of the liver and spleen. It may be noticed that, as in Cohuheim's and Frankel's experiments, the pieces of cancer introduced into the peritoneal cavity became surrounded by a capsule. According to Pasteur (" Eesultats des observation faites sur la ma- ladie des morts-flats, soit hereditaire, soitaccidentelle," ' Compt. Eend.,' lxviii, p. 1229) the affection called by this name, or that of la fldcherie, is caused by a fermentation of the mulberry-leaf in the intestinal canal of the silkworm, which may be the consequence of the presence there of two distinct organised ferments, either vibrios or small beaded bodies, the two occurring singly or together. If the first are present the caterpillars almost always die before spinning their cocoon, seldom in the chrysalis state: and very rarely indeed are vibrios found in the moth. Should the other ferment be the cause of disease, the full de- velopment is not arrested, and the moth lays her eggs, but the eater- similar cancerous masses found in the lungs two months later. 2. Follin and Lebert. Injection into a dog's jugular vein from cancer of breast; death in a fortnight; cancerous' nodules in heart and liver. 3. Weber. Injection into femoral vein of a terrier from medullary cancer of maxilla, and inoculation from the same under the skin; a tumour formed at the latter spot, and on removal shooed cancerous structure, but it afterwards shrunk up. and the animal recovered. 4. Weber. Inoculation of epithelial cancer under the skin of a cat; on removal of the local growth which was developed, similar epithelial structures appeared, but the wound healed; when the cat died no internal disease, beyond cedema of the lungs, was found. Other experiments of Weber's were negative. 5, 6, 7. Goujon. Inoculation of medullary cancer under the skin of a rat; two months later numerous secondary growths of the same character, chiefly in the glands (apparently, one only was examined microscopically). Similar experiments on a guinea-pig, and similar local tumour and altered glands (both examined microscopically). Injection from a "cancerous tumour "into the femoral vein of a dog; local granulations, probably of non-cancerous nature; recovery in two months. 8. Billroth. Three eases of subcutaneous inoculation, and six of injection, into the veins of dogs; all negative. 9. Libert and Wyss. Inoculation from a melanotic tumour in a rabbit; two months after small nodules round the scar, like tubercles of serous membranes, but containing pigment. No other tumour.