REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 16G Pye-Smith (' Virch. Arch.,' 1, 462), in answer to a paper of Hartsen's on " Gingivitis" (ib., xlvi), publishes three cases of ha>morrhagic stoma- titis in adults. Brochin (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 157) quotes from Gosselin the case of a man, aet. 38, suffering from advanced phthisis, who presented a superficial ulceration of the tip, and especially the under side, of the tongue, of some weeks' standing. After discussing whether it might be of cancerous origin or due to tertiary or primary (chancre) syphilis, Gosselin concludes that it was analogous to ulcers developed in the larynx in phthisical patients (cf. Trelat, under " Phthisis," in this Report). De Smeth (' Presse Med. Beige,' 1869,253) gives the history of a man, set. 48, who suffered from chronic catarrh of the pharynx (follicular pha- ryngitis), followed by emotional (psychical) disturbance and anaemia. He recovered under local and general treatment—a tonic regimen, exercise in the open air, rest of the affected organ, cold affusions of the whole body, followed by prolonged dry rubbing; and preparations of iron and quinine. A strong solution of nitrate of silver was applied locally. After two months' treatment the patient was well. Luschka ('Virch. Arch.,' 1, 161) publishes a short paper on warty tumours (" Papillargeschwiilste") of the pharynx, with one case in a man, and another in an ox. Grohe ('Berl. klin. Woch.,' 1869, 334) records a case of phlegmo- nous cellulitis of the neck (angina Ludovici) in a man, set. 48. Death was caused by very considerable cedematous and purulent infiltration of the soft parts of the pharynx and entrance of the larynx. This had already spread to the lower portion of the neck, though it was most marked in the upper, where the lymph-glands were most swollen. The patient had been under treatment from March 2a—28, 1869, for a chronic ulcer of the leg, which had become gangrenous. On the 26th he was attacked with fever, a heavy feeling in the head, diarrhoea, &c. On the 27th he saw objects of a yellow colour (xanthopsia). On the 28th there was slight icteric coloration of the sclerotic ; on this latter day he was removed to the medical wards, on account of the angina which had set in the day before. On the 30th he died from suffocation. The rapid course of the affection (within four to five days), and the changes found after death, proved that the latter was due to so-called angina Ludovici. Wagner (£ Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,' ii, 335) gives the incubation stage of angina parotidea (mumps) as twelve to twenty-one days. Duroziez (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1870, 371) records five cases of mumps. Two children, set. 5 and 6, had mumps, Dec. 25, 1856, with no further sequela?. A cousin, set. 20, in the same house, had slight stiffness of the right jaw, which disappeared, and reappeared in the left. On the a8th the right testicle was affected, and there was slight muco- purulent discharge from the urethra; the left testicle was not attacked. There was no fever, and all pain was gone by the 4th January. A woman, a?t. 35, working in the same house, was affected so very slightly that the diagnosis was doubtful for some time; a youug man, also m the same house, had no swelling, but delirium, nausea, paiu in the head