REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 112 Brown-Sequard and Charcot, Hitzig pronounces against that held by the latter, according to whom the joint affection is a form of neuro- paralysis analogous to the livid swelling and increased temperature of paralysed limbs. For cogent reasons he thinks it probable that the joint affection observed by him does not stand in any direct relation to the central lesion, but occurs rather as a consequence of the paralytic dislocation of the bead of the humerus, which rides upon the cartila- ginous margin of tbe glenoid cavity, out of whicb it has slipped. He has seen this dislocation and inflammation occur as well in peripheral paralysis of the brachial plexus. The paper concludes with an abstract of Charcot's and bis own cases. Tournie (' L'Union Med.,' 1869, vii, 205) gives a summary of the cases of dorsal tumours of the hands, and of the sheath of the extensor tendons of the fingers recorded by French physicians; four by Gubler (three in lead paralysis, one in hemiplegia) ; nine by Nicaise in lead paralysis; two, questionable, by de Haen; one by Tanquerel des Planches ; one by Bouchard in lead-paralysis, and six by himself. In this paper he gives three more cases occurring in patients unaffected by lead-poisoning, after cerebral haemorrhage and hemiplegia, and offering well-marked symptoms of an acute inflammation which not only occu- pied the tendons and their sheaths, but invaded the metacarpo-phalan- geal and phalangeal articulations, setting up a true arthritis in the first two cases, and great pain in the third. In the first case these symp- toms made their earliest appearance twenty days after the hemiplegic attack, in the other two on or about the eighth day after, and disap- peared in the course of two months. Colrat read a paper before the Societe des Sciences Medicales at Lyons ('Lyon Med.,' 1869, ii, 609), on a case of hemiplegia with symptoms of cerebral embolism in a patient suffering from phthisis. Perroud gave the notes of three other cases of the same kind, and Tripier of another still alive, affected probably in the same way. The autopsies of three are given. Perroud considers that embolism m phthisis originates in one or other of the following: 1. Endocarditis. 2. Cavities from which the broken-down lung tissue has passed into the circulation. 3. A detached clot from the left heart; the great ten- dency to byperinosis observed in phthisical patients tending to support the last hypothesis. Frank-Smith ('Lancet,' 1869,^427) publishes seven cases ot he- phaastic hemiplegia (hammer-palsy), differing from scriveners' palsy by the absence of spasm and extension of the paralysis; occurring with one exception in otherwise healthy patients, young or m the prime of life. The exceptional case had the characteristics of aphasia and agraphia. All recovered under tonic treatment and rest. Russell, " A Case in which left Hemiplegia was followed by Hemiplegia °n the right side before complete recovery," 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, 11, ago; Russell, Right Hemiplegia after Labour," &c,' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 335 i Finlayson, «' Hemiplegia in cffien,"ib.,4S4; Allbutt, "Remarks on Functional Hemipleg.a in Cb.ld-beanng Women" X., ii, iff Hughlings Jackson, "Hemiplegia from Cerebral Hemorrhage wheTe there is Valvular Disease of the Heart," ib., 459» Sibson, " Hem.pleg.a follow.ng Rheumatic Affection of the Heart," ' Lancet,' 1870, i, 873.