154 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Bnstowe ( Path. Soc. Trans.,' xix, 90) gives the case of a widow who Buttered from chronic renal disease, accelerated by catching cold, and Bank gradually. The autopsy showed cystic kidneys with shrunken cortex; the heart contained large adherent clots. At the apex of the left ventricle were several rounded, smooth coagula, softened within to a creamy pulp, enclosing, in places, numerous hmmatoid crystals, and attached to the parietes by means of processes prolonged beneath the eolumnffl carneaj. He looks upon the case as an example of the forma- tion of clots some considerable time anterior to death. Gaskoin ('Med. Times and G-az.,' 1869, ii, 276) records a case of "polypus" of the left side of the heart, causing sudden death in a lad of seventeen. After death a yellow ribbon-like clot was found implanted in the columnse carneae, enveloping the tendinous cords of the mitral, and prolonged into the aortic orifice. In its middle there existed a bulging which contained about a drachm of disorganized blood. He considers it possible that the aorta might have been occluded, and death thus brought about. Bucquoy ('Gaz. Hebdom.,' 1869, 155) showed to the Societe Medi- cale des H6pitaux a preparation in which an old thrombus (concretion polypiforme) was adherent to the top of the cavity of the left ventricle, without any other lesion of the endocardium ; connected with the old clot was one of more recent origin, about the size of a hen's egg, non- adherent, and exactly filliug the cavity. This was taken from a woman £et. 26, who had presented symptoms of mitral insufficiency (hypertro- phied and dilated heart, systolic bruit at base propagated into axilla). He remarks that it was doubly interesting, first, as an example of a thrombus formed a long time before death ; and, again, because in spite of the physical symptoms, it was the only lesion found. Moxon ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, ii, 473) showed to the Patho- logical Society a portion of lung and the vena cava inferior from a woman who died of pyaemia. The artery supplying a patch of lung, which was in a state of incipient gangrene, contained a yellowish clot, lodged at a bifurcation, adherent to the wall at one point, and extend- ing a little way into each limb of the fork. The main pulmonary artery and its branches were occupied by the prolongation of the post- mortem clot in the right ventricle. The vena cava inferior had also a yellowish clot, extending throughout its whole length, and into the iliac veins. It was adherent to the left side of the vena cava, was rounded, leaving space for blood to pass, and had a rounded end protruding into the right auricle. It appeared oldest in the left iliac vein, which was in contact with an abscess lodged between the rectum, broad ligament and pelvic wall. Eisenchitz (' Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,' ii, 83) publishes a case of aphasia in a boy, act. 11, in consequence of embolism of the artery of the Sylvian fossa ; Fagge (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, ii, 4.73), a case of embolism of the cerebral artery in a woman, net. 26, from disease of the mitral valve; Groos (' Berl. klin. Woch.,' 1870, 396) describes the case of a man, ait. 45, of thrombosis in the veins of both thighs, followed by phlebitis, with ac- companying circumscribed pleuro-pneumonia and embolism of several branches of the pulmonary artery; Aufrecht (ib., 1869, 308) gives a case of inflammation of the vermiform process with perityphlitis, phlebitis, and thrombosis of the vena mesentcrica