REPORT ON SURGERY. 200 the circumference of the urethra. The injury was followed by dry gan- grene of the glans and urethra; the patient, however, survived, and nine years afterwards was in good health, and the father of a family. In contused wounds of the penis, the contusion, rupture, and occasional attrition of the parts are more than sufficient to produce gangrene. At the commencement of his medical studies, M. Demarquay saw in M. Blandin's ward a man whose penis had become gangrenous by being twisted during erection: there must have been here a rupture of the fibrous as well as of the vascular structures. Priapism in man is not generally attended with gangrene ; at least, M. Demarquay has not met with any case in the human subject like that recorded by Hunter, where gangrene followed priapism in a dog. Inflammation is a necessary feature in the production of gangrene from traumatic causes; but it may, when occurring spontaneously, itself induce gangrene. The forms of inflammation which may thus act are, simple balano-posthitis, phlebitis of the vena dorsalis, and penitis. Gangrene after balano-posthitis is rare, but is more likely to occur when the surface of the glans or of the prepuce is covered with ulcers. The disease is then limited to the prepuce and the furrow of the penis ; but in the latter case it is rather the result of phlebitis of the vena dor- salis, produced, it may be, by the abortive treatment of blennorrhea. There may be penitis, destroying the whole organ: this is especially observed in gastro-enterite or typhoid. The urethra may become per- forated as the result of ulceration following inflammation; or it may be lacerated from over-distension behind a stricture, or by the making of a false passage in catheterism, or from the detachment of an eschar. The urine then escapes into the cellular tissue of the perineum, scrotum, and penis, perhaps reaching the groins and lower part of the abdomen. How does the urine act ? M. Demarquay asserts that urea is of itself not capable of producing gangrene. He has injected urea into the cellular tissue of rabbits, in quantities varying from two to twenty grammes ; when the animals died soon, the only phenomena found were those of inflammation; the remainder of the animals died after a longer or shorter interval, in a state of extreme emaciation. Epispadias, and still more hypospadias, may lead indirectly to the production of gan- grene, through the injuries which the subjects may inflict on themselves in passing catheters, &c. , . Symptoms.—The symptomatology of gangrene of the penis is dimcult; but three stages may be described. In the first stage the skm becomes gradually relaxed; there is slight oedema, which retains the impression of the finger ; the skin becomes pale, sensibility diminishes, there is no pain and the temperature falls. Next, phlyctenaj are formed m varying numbers, and are soon more or less filled with a yellowish or reddish fluid The gangrene then makes rapid progress; the sensibility ot the skin'diminishes, the temperature falls still lower, and the parts become black The sphacelated mass may be soft or hard; it shrivels up, and sometimes presents, generally about the tenth day, a line of demarca- tion • the general symptoms, at the same time, proceed with an inten- sity proportioned to the severity and extent of the gangrene. -Fever sets in the tongue becomes dry and foul; the pulse rapid, small, and