HAY FEVER—SUMMER CATARRH. 51 (and other compounds containing nitrogen) occurred in consequence of the increase of temperature. Thudiehum ('Eleventh Eep. Med. Off. Priv. Counc.,' 1868, p. 126) states that in all febrile conditions, however caused, the following changes take place: (1) Temperature and (2) disintegration of albuminous sub- stances are increased; (3) muscular power, (4) ingestion of nutriment, (5) amount of urine passed, (6) powers of senses and sensorium, are diminished. Under the first head he remarks that a temperature of 44° C. belongs to spinal injuries and tetanus ; one of 43*37°—41-87° to the approach of death (especially in typhus) ; that no patient who has exceeded 4175° in typhus has got well; that of cases which exceed 41-12° fifty per cent, die; 38-6° is the maximum, 37-6° the mean, and 3676° the minimum of health; below 36*5° (the temperature of diar- rhoea) all cholera cases die. Whenever the amount of tyrosine excreted in the urine is increased, that of urea is also, but the inverse statement does not hold. Huppert and EieseU ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' x, 329) contribute a paper on the transformation of nitrogen in fever. Say-fever ; Summer Catarrh. In a paper by Binz, on the action of quinine (' Virch. Archiv,' xlvi, s. 100), may be found a history given by Helmholtz, who had suffered regularly from hay-fever since 1847, from the middle of May to the end of June. The connection between it and the time of its occurrence 1 suggested to him that its origin was due to some organism, and during the last five years he has found regularly in his nasal secretion certain vibrio-like bodies, seen at no other period of the year. A drawing of them is given (1. c, p. 101). They are very small, generally single, •004 of a millimetre in length, containing four corpuscles in a row, closely connected in pairs. On warming the stage of the microscope they exhibit lively movements; at a lower temperature they are very in- active. Left for several days in the moist chamber they vegetate, and appear somewhat larger and more distinct than immediately after expul- sion. They occur only in the secretion got rid of by violent sneezing consequently they probably occupy the sinuses. Having read Binz's researches on the poisonous action of quinine on infusoria, Helmholtz ■ determined to try the remedy on himself, with the theory that, even supposing these vibrios were not the cause of the affection, they made it more annoying by their movements and the products of their decom- position. He made, therefore, a saturated neutral solution of sulphate • of quinine (1 to 740), allowed 4 cc. of this to flow through a pipette 1 into each nostril, and moved his head about till the fluid had penetrated 1 in all directions. The result was perfectly successful, the symptoms disappearing after the use of the drug three times a day for several l days the vibnos also disappearing from the nasal secretion. He made •the first trial of it m the summer of 1867. In 1868, as soon as the nrst symptoms showed themselves in May, he employed it again, and prevented their further development (Of. Binz, " Ueber cine Unter-