BBPOBT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 510 the Medical Officer of the Privy Council,' and of the * Kivers Pollution Commissioners' Keport,' noticed elsewhere. ^Earth-closets. Dr. Rolleston* advances some weighty arguments in opposition to Mr. Moule and the introduction of earth-closets in lieu of waterclosets as part of our ordinary domestic sanitary arrangements. He quotes largely from Pettenkofer and from the reports of our Indian sanitarians and gaol surgeons, and shows that, in spite of the most thorough de- odorization of excreta, the contagiousness of gaol fever continues un- changed, and also that where the earth used contains a large amount of moisture the fermentation of excrementitious matter will take place, and disease will be the certain and sure result. Sewage. In the 'Twelfth Annual Eeport of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council' are two voluminous reports upon this question, one by Dr. Buchanan,t the other by the same author and Mr. Netten Eadcliffe,^ Dr. Buchanan, who appears to be warmly in favour of the dry-earth system of dealing with excremental matter, concludes his report thus : —(i) The earth-closet, intelligently managed, furnishes a means of dis- posing of excrement without nuisance, and apparently without detri- ment to health. (2) In communities the earth-closet system requires to be managed by the authority of the place, and will pay at least the expenses of its management. (3) In the poorer class of houses, where supervision of any closet arrangements is indispensable, the adoption of the earth-closet system offers especial advantages. (4) The earth system of excrement removal does not supersede the necessity for an independent means of removing slops, rain-water, and soil-water. (5) The limits of application of the earth system in the future cannot be stated. In existing towns, favorably arranged for access to the closets, the system might be at once applied to populations of 10,000 persons. (6) As compared with the watercloset, the earth-closet has these advan- tages—it is cheaper in original cost, it requires less repair, it is not injured by frost, it is not damaged by improper substances being thrown down it, and it very greatly reduces the quantity of water re- quired by each household. (7) As regards the application of excre- ment to the land, the advantages of the earth system are these—the whole agricultural value of the excrement is retained, the resulting manure is in a state in which it can be kept, carried about, and applied to crops with facility; there is no need for restricting its use to any particular area, nor for using it at times when, agriculturally, it is worthless; and it can be applied with advantage to a very great variety, if not to all crops and soils. After the disposal of excrement by earth irrigation will continue to have its value as a means of extracting from the refuse water of a place whatever agricultural value it may possess for the benefit of such crops and such places as can be advantageously * 'Lancet,' 1869, i, pp. 319, 411. t ' Twelfth An. Rep. of Med. Officer of Privy Council,' p. 80. % Ibid., p. in.