UTKRINii THKRAPJSUTICS. 387 gomery of puerperal mania, where the ovary was inflamed. ('Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med.,' 1871.) Dr. Martin, Melbourne, showed to the Obstetrical Society (' Trans.,' 1870) a cast of a bard fibrous tumour removed by abdominal section, and taken to be of ovarian origin. The patient recovered. Doubts were expressed whether the tumour did not really grow from the broad ligament. Therapeutics of the Female Genital Organs, and Miscellaneous. Dr. Cohnstein gives a careful historical survey of the practice and opinions of those who have related their experience upon the injection of fluids into the uterus. The general results seem to be that the injec- tion of very powerful caustics is likely to cause inflammation of the uterus and peritoneum, or severe prostration and uterine colics, and these dangers are less urgent if care be taken first to dilate the cervix uteri, so that the return of the fluid injected into the cavity is easy. (' Beitrage z. Chronischen Metritis,' 1868.) Intra-uterine medication. — Dr. Lente passes under review the various topical modes of treating disease of the cavity of the uterus. Iodine in solution he has known cause intense pain and alarming collapse, which, however, passed away, and no further bad effect ensued. He, however, contends that it is one of the best and safest remedies we possess. He speaks highly of a method long used by the reporter (R. B.), viz. coating a probe-pointed sound with a film of fused nitrate of silver, as a means of carrying the remedy into the cavity of the uterus. He properly says that, lightly used, it is not a caustic, but a powerful astringent, and applied to the interior of the uterus it sometimes causes acute pain, and a dose of morphia should be at hand to allay it. In some cases contraction of the os externum uteri has followed the too free use of nitrate of silver. As to fluid applications, Dr. Lente uses an instrument provided with a small pledget of cotton, which is carried into the uterus. By a piston a known quantity of the fluid, say solution of iodine, is forced into the cotton to saturate it, and this, being in contact with the uterine wall, avoids all force in the application. Dr. Lente speaks highly of an instrument for carrying medicinal agents into the uterus in the form of ointment. For the arrest of haemorrhage he uses iodine injection, but in certain cases he says scraping the mucous membrane with Becamier's curette is the only effectual remedy. In certain cases of rebellious chronic metritis he recommends trial of a seton, consisting of six silk threads, carried through one lip of the os uteri. The free discharge set up leads to healthy action and diminution of bulk of the diseased cervix. (' New York Journ. of Med.,' 1870.) The leading gynaecologists of New York have discussed the value of intra-uterine injections. Dr. Nott said a portion or the whole of the substances injected becomes neutralised in contact with the uterine discharges; even chromic acid may be injected into the uterus full of blood, and pass out without irritating the vagina, which part is very sensitive to the direct action of chromic acid. Tor efficient action the