278 REPORT ON SURGERY. Treatment of aneurism by iodide of potassium.—Dr. Balfour advocates the use of this remedy, in the 'Ediu. Med. Journ.,1 July, 1869, p. 47. Hypodermic injections of ergotin.—Langenheek, in the ' Berliner klinische Wochenschrift,' March, 1869, advocates the subcutaneous injection of a watery extract of ergot in cases of aneurism. He was led to employ it in these cases from the consideration that its action on the uterus and on the arteries was identical, and consisted in inducing contraction of the inorganic muscular fibres, and he hoped to diminish the aneurism by causing contraction of the muscular fibres scattered over it. A middle-aged man had had an aneurism presenting above the left clavicle for some years, and had been almost cured at one time by the use of moxas. The pulsation, pain, &c, all returned, and it was determined to try ergot. On the 6th January the first hypodermic in- jection was made, consisting of about half a grain (0-03) of the watery extract of secale cornutum. This was introduced immediately beneath the skin covering the aneurism. The patient slept well, and was im- proved next day. After the second injection the aneurism seemed softer and smaller. From January 6th to February 17th the injections were made regularly, about every three days, in doses of from half a grain (0-03) to three grains (o-i8). Decided improvement occurred, but pulsation did not quite cease. The preparation used was Bonjean's watery extract, diluted with three times as much rectified spirit and glycerine. Once, three grains were injected in one day and six the next day. The patient complained of flashing before his eyes and pain in the shoulder. He was not sick. In a second case, a carpenter, set. 42, had a saccular aneurism of the radial artery about the size of a hazel- nut. One single injection of two grains and a half of the watery extract caused it to disappear completely. The next morning the aneurism could not be felt, but in the course of the day a trace could be perceived. A slight erythematous redness appeared around the puncture, and the cellular tissue appeared slightly swollen and in- filtrated. In a week this all went away, and the aneurism had quite disappeared. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' November, 1869, p. 463.) Subclavian aneurism.—Mr. Poland publishes the statistics of 119 cases of subclavian aneurism, collected from all available sources. In the first series they are arranged according to the mode of treatment adopted. In thirty-six cases no treatment has been put on record, and in three of them a spontaneous cure resulted. In twelve cases the patient was either bled or some internal remedy was given; seven of these were cured. In four cases, in which compression of the sac was used, recovery followed. In two cases, in which the sac was injected, death followed. Manipulation in four cases was followed by recovery in two of them. In eight cases an operation was attempted and not completed, and in one of these a cure (possibly from manipulation) followed. In fifty-one cases the ligature was resorted to. The third part of the subclavian was tied in twenty-one instances, and there we*| nine recoveries; the first part in ten, and all the patients died. Ihe innominate was tied twelve times without success. In four cases