SEMINAL FLVID IN DISEASE. 263 useless, but may lead to further accidents. Hence M. Demarquay lays ifc down as a priuciplo never to amputate tho penis beyond tlio sphacelated portion. In other cases amputation is not always sufficient; and there are instances where, while tho bistoury must be used, the continued use of mercurials is indicated. Whilst disapproving of amputating the penis before the line of demarcation has been fully formed, M. Demarquay does not oppose all operation on the organ. There are cases where gangrene is limited to certain parts, leaving others intact, but in such a condition that the performance of their functions is impossible. Such was a case under the care of Delavacherie, where gangreue attacked the sheath of the penis, the glans, corpora cavernosa, and urethra remaining intact. A new sheath was formed by a plastic operation. As the patient was lost sight of, it is not known whether this new sheath allowed the performance of the functions of the organ; but M. Demarquay considers that the want of elasticity should not be an obstacle to the performance of such an operation when required. In conclusion, he calls attention to the local use of cam- phorated creasote, which, he says, M. Lavit has applied with good effect. Seminal Fluid.—M. Liegeois has written on the condition of the seminal secretion in disease (' Med. Times and Gazette,' Aug. 28, Sept. a. 2 5, Oct. 30, and Nov. 6). Of seventy-two samples of semen from individuals of different ages and constitutions, exempt, however, from any disease, the absence of spermatozoa was only noticed once, and, in that case, on a subsequent occasion spermatozoa were found. Sexual excess is the common cause of diminution of quantity of spermatozoa. The recorded examples of absence may be explained by the occurrence of seminal emissions before the examination (as during sudden death), and by sexual excesses at the time. This was the explanation in the one case in which the author failed to find spermatozoa. The author " is disposed to believe that old persons, if enjoying good health, are just as apt to produce spermatozoa, as is the adolescent or the adult. It results that every man in health carries in his semen the material elements of fecundation. There still remains to be seen if these elements are endowed with motion, before giving an opinion, that the person furnishing them is fruitful." Acute disease, except in old people, does not affect the semen. Chronic disease has little effect. Destruction of the testicle by disease^ of course, deprives the semen of animalcules. Tubercular disease of one testicle is said to produce azoospermia ; while cancer does not. If this be true, the absence of spermatozoa in a doubtful disease of one testicle might decide the point. The author had one case in which great diminution in quantity occurred. In epididymitis with induration the spermatazoa disappear, but return as the thickening vanishes. Of twenty-three cases the animalcules were absent in twenty-one. The practical deduction is to reduce the induration as quickly as possible. Disease of one side diminishes the amount of spermatozoa secreted from the other. The two testicles are closely united by reflex ties. Atrophy of one testis, diminishes the quantity of living elements.