310 REPORT ON SURGERY. of the case ascertained, all that can be done is to turn out the secondary cysts, and then wash the parent cavity out repeatedly. In this case the cyst contracted very quickly, and the patient soon recovered. (' Guy's Hosp. Eeports,' xiv, p. 241.) Suppurating cysts.—In the treatment of suppurating ovarian cysts Mr. Bryant has practised incision in the middle line, with the result of a perfect cure. He recommends that in the first instance only a small incision should be made, to place the fact of suppuration beyond doubt and. then this should be enlarged upwards and downwards. When the cyst has suppurated the result is always fatal, without interference, and no interference should be attempted till the patient is severely affected by the disease. (' Guy's Hosp. Eeports,' xiv, p. 220.) Treatment of thepedicle.—Mr. Bryant records a case in which a double ligature, which he had applied to the pedicle, came away through the wound on the twenty-sixth day. Somewhat similar occurrences on other occasions led him to doubt the advantage of the plan of leaving a foreign body of any description in the abdominal cavity. On the whole, however, he knows no better plan than that of ligaturing the pedicle in two halves, and he adds a hint to cross the ligatures as they lie together before being tied, so that when each is drawn tight there is no tendency to cut the pedicle in two. (' Guy's Hosp. Eeports,' xiv, p. 230). Menstruation from the pedicle after ovariotomy.—Mr.Bryant calls atten- tion to this, and asks whether it occurs when the pedicle is returned into the abdominal cavity, as well as when it is left outside, fastened by the clamp ? His conclusion is that there is no evidence to show that men- struation occurs from an open pedicle returned within the abdominal cavity, but he can give no reason for the difference. (' Guy's Hosp. Eeports,' 1869, p. 233-)* Removal of dermoid cysts of the broad ligament by abdominal section.— This case is detailed by Dr. Gibbes at great length. A woman, aged 26, eight days after a difficult labour, was noticed to have a tumour of less size than the fist, in the right hypogastrium, so extremeby mobile that it could be pushed up to the gall-bladder. One month later the tumour seemed more connected with the bladder. It could then for the first time be felt per vaginam. On the whole, the conclusion was in favour of its being malignant and omental. The operation was per- formed as usual for ovariotomy. The tumour was found to be of the left broad ligament, and about two inches of the Fallopian tube was removed; the ovary was considered to be left behind, and could be apparently felt (a doubt was afterwards raised about this). The cyst was found to contain thick curdy pus, with fat-globules and a mass of fine black hair. She recovered, and menstruation occurred through the wound for four successive periods. Some ventral hernia resulted. ('Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,' Oct. 1869.) * A case of menstruation from the pedicle will also be found in the ' Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,' Oct. 1869.—(Ed.)