323 FACIAL ANTIIUAX. whose personal experience has given him good results from its use. I would venture to propose that in all. cases of facial boil or carbuncle in addition to the general measures which ordinary prudence would suggest, sulphite of soda or magnesia should be systematically adminis- tered from the very first. Though I have had do experience of the effects of this drug as a preventive of the blood-poisoning that may occur from facial carbuncle, yet I believe that I have seen the happiest results from its administration in the early stages of the pya?mia that so often occurs with acute necrosis, and, more rarely, after operations in children." The cause of clanger in facial antlirax.—In an elaborate memoir published in the early numbers of the 'Archives Generales de Mede- cine' for 1870 M. Eeverdin treats fully of boils and carbuncle of the face. In a case where he had an opportunity of making a careful microscopical examination he found all the veins of the face in a state of phlebitis. From this and analogous cases he infers that the danger attending anthrax of the face is due to phlebitis, which may extend to the neck or even further, and be propagated through the ophthalmic vein to the cavernous sinus. In the case observed by M. Eeverdin there was suppurative phlebitis of the internal jugular vein, and me- tastatic abscesses of the lungs and kidney. Temperature in shocJc.—Mr. "Wagstaffe records the results of a series of observations on the temperature of patients suffering from shock. Very little has been written on this subject. Mr. Eourneaux Jordan has given the lowest temperature which he has met with, in which recovery followed, as a fesv tenths below 97°. In one case of cut throat Mr. Wagstaffe found a temperature of 91-2°, and yet the patient did well. The cause of the loss of heat was probably loss of blood. In a second case the temperature was 92-4°. In a third 93-5°. Of 47 other non-fatal cases, there was a fall of about 3 or 4 degrees in four cases, of 2 or 3 in three cases, of 1 or 2 in thirteen cases, and in 27 there was only a fall of a degree or less. Of the fatal cases the greatest fall was in a case of fractured spine when, on admission, it was as much as 6°, and in forty-eight hours it had increased to 16-65°. In a second case the fall was 11°. There were five fatal cases with only a fall of less than a degree, these, however, dying after a long interval had elapsed. (The cases of death within forty-eight hours, and due to shock, showed a diminution of temperature—in a case of scald, of 4-5° ; of burn, 2-4°; of " fracture " there is none recorded; of " operations," one showed a fall of 8-4°, one of 40, another of 3-4°; of injury to the head, one 11 •o°, one 4-1°, and another 3-2°; of fractured spine, one case only, a fall of 16-65°; of visceral injury, one 5-4°, one 3-4°, one 1-8°, one 1750; also the operation cases above-mentioned are included.—Ed.) Two cases of scalds or burns, fatal in forty-eight hours, had a fall of 4'5° and °f 2'4°- Two which recovered had a fall of o-8°, and elevation of o-6°. Of the cases of fractures, in one which recovered after ampu- tation for compound fracture of both legs there was a fall of 6°. Nine