175 DYSENTERY. inie of 1795, had already recognised the contagious principle in the stools of dysenteric patients. No accounts of any outbreak since the widespread epidemic at the end of the last century exist. In 1868 dysentery was so prevalent in Weimar that about 1200 in a population of 15000 were attacked, and at least fifty died. The epidemic com- menced June 15, and gradually died out towards the middle of Septem- ber. It was most common in the narrowest and most thickly inhabited streets, and appeared first in the same districts of the town in which typhus (typhoid?) and cholera had occurred in 1866, though it was by no means confined to them. Hallier (ib., 71) was supplied byPfeiffer with the necessary materials for his investigation, and claims to have discovered the parasite which is the cause of dysentery. The vegetable growth found in the stools of patients affected with this disease is so similar to that found in the evacuations of cholera, typhus (typhoid ?) fever, and other infectious diseases the chief seat of which is the intestine, that it would be impos- sible to employ it by itself as a means of distinguishing these affections. At the same time, he holds that the spores found in the diseases men- tioned have a different origin. Experiments made by planting prove that the parasite found in dysentery is the sporule of an entirely dis- tinct fungus, not obtained by the cultivation of any other micrococcus, and apparently unknown to most observers. Whether it be the cause, or only an accompaniment of the affection, can be settled by experiment alone. Dyes (' Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' 1870, liv, 317) observes that while some autumns pass without any epidemic of dysentery, diarrhoea, simple intestinal catarrh, may be very prevalent. He considers that the former complaint is due, not to the unripe fruit, which merely sets up diarrhcea, but to a peculiar viscous pellicle (smut). In some years, more than in others, it covers the fruit, more especially plums, and, according to him, is composed of animal parasites. He holds (p. 321) that the mildew of the fruit, which sets up dysentery in man, has a very great resemblance to that of the fodder which in cattle causes the foot-and-mouth disease in all its varying forms. To oppose its effects in men, chlorine water should be administered to destroy the parasites, and this treatment, combined with one promoting skin-action, prevents altogether the dysentery which would be provoked by such fruit. Basch (' Yirch. Arch.,' xlv, 204) gives, with microscopical figures, the changes he found, while at Puebla, in the bodies of patients who had died of dysentery. They were often seen best in the small intes- tine, because there they were less advanced. After iujection follows thickening or infiltration of the submucous connective tissue; the mu- cous membrane undergoes granular degeneration; the epithelium is thrown off. Ulcers are rarely found in acute dysentery. Fungous growthsoccur more frequently in the diseased tissue, penetrating even to the blood-vessels. o Huette ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1869, ii, 129) describes, under the name oi dysenteric arthritis, the affection of the joints which sometimes occurs alter recovery from epidemic dysentery. After briefly reviewing the accounts of former writers on the subject (Zimmerman, 1765 5