REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 110 In these, as well as in children in whom the affection passes from the lighter to the severer form, he finds strychnia given in small doses and frequently, of great benefit. Schmidt ('Berk Klin. Woch.,' 1869, 417) asserts that iodine is indicated in epileptiform cases accompanied by nervous debility, anaemia, and chlorosis, with increasing general weakness ; but not in full-blooded patients with great nerve-action, when it causes headache, giddiness, diz- ziness of sight, singing in the ears, and trembling of the limbs. He gave tincture of iodine, or iodine in pills, to eight out of twenty-seven patients suffering from epileptiform convulsions, which had not returned up to the date at which he wrote (i. e., for two years): four others were im- proved by the drug. The eight cases, and two of the latter, are given in full. Bacon (' Practitioner,' ii, 334) remarks on the frequent dependence of epileptic insanity on sexual excesses, and gives the details of a case of the kind which was remarkably benefited by castration. Thome Thorne, "On Masked Epilepsy" (in a man aet. 36), ' St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,' 1870, vi, 60; Briand, "Epilepsie survenue subitement chez un individu bien portant," ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 438 ; Saint Vel, " Observation de PEpilepsie; Emploi du Bromurc de Potassium," ib., 71; Thurn, "Syncope und Epilepsia acuta," 'Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1869, No. 12; Decaisne, "Resultats obtenus dans le Traitement de l'Epilepsie inter- mittente par l'eau froide," * Compt. Rend./ t. 69, p. 143; Hughlings Jackson, " Digi- talis with Bromide of Potassium in Epilepsy," ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 32 ; Handfield Jones,■" Fatal Epileptic Stupor," * Lancet/ 1870, i, 586. Hemiplegia. In his first lecture " on organic affections and injuries of the spinal cord producing some of the symptoms of hemiplegia" ('Lancet,' 1868, ii, 593), Brown-Sequard had related fourteen cases of spinal hemiplegia: in his second lecture (ib. 1869, i, 1, &c.) he gives facts to prove that a lesion in one of the lateral halves of the spinal cord produces: 1st, paralysis of voluntary movements in the limbs and trunk on the same side; 2ndly, anaesthesia to touch, tickling, and painful impressions, and changes of temperature in the opposite side; 3rdly, a paralysis of the muscular sense in the corresponding, and not in the opposite side ; 4tbly, paralysis of the blood-vesssels in the trunk and limbs on the same side; 5thly, a morbidly increased sensibility (hyperalgesia) on the same side; 6thly, symptoms in the eye and face of the same side similar to those which follow section of the cervical sympathetic nerve. He then proceeds to apply these symptoms to the diagnosis as to which side of the cord is the seat of lesion, and adds: 1. When a paralysis exists in both sides of the body, in a greater degree, however, in one than in the other, the lesion is in both sides of the spinal cord, but chiefly in the side corresponding to that of the greater degree of paralysis: 2. When a complete or very marked anaesthesia exists in one of the lateral halves of the body, with some diminution of sensibility, instead of hypersesthesia in the other half, the lesion exists chiefly in the lateral half of the cord corresponding to the side of least anaesthesia; but it extends slightly to the other half of the spinal nervous centre. He draws attention to certain peculiarities, upon which he insists:—