351 SURGERY. of both lenses, whose state had been described by Follin six years pre- \ iously. The lenses were then displaced upwards and inwards, and the patient required strong convex glasses. In tbe interim the lens of the left eye had become more displaced in the same direction, leaving the greater part of the pupil free, while that of the right eye had fallen back towards its normal position. The result was, that the patient, who was naturally myopic, now required a concave 7 or 8 for the right eye, and a convex 3^ or 4 for the left. The case was interesting, as affording data by which to determine the index of refraction of the crystalline. A case of luxation, which also afforded important data of the same character, has occurred in America, and has been fully described by Jsoyes.* Professor G-. A. Gioppi,f of Padua, has described a method of extracting the lens in its capsule. He makes a linear incision in the sclero-corneal junction, with a knife resembling G-raefe's, and introduces a scoop in such a manner that its convexity glides over the iris to the pupillary margin. He then rotates the scoop, moving its handle forwards and its blade backwards, in such a way that it first pushes back the pupillary margin towards the wound, and then passes behind the equator of the lens to the hyaloid fossa. It is then caused to rupture the zonula, and is pushed on behind the posterior capsule until it reaches the equator on the opposite side. The rotation is then continued very slowly in an opposite direction, that is, the handle is depressed and the blade elevated, while, at the same time, a continuous movement of extraction is performed, the scoop becoming a lever of the third kind, with the sclerotic edge of the wound as its fulcrum. Knapp J records the results of his third hundred of cases of cataract extraction by von Graefe's method. He states that, of these 100 cases, there were 89 operations executed without any accident what- ever from the beginning to the end, and that of the untoward accidents which accompanied 11 operations, 4 only could be laid to the charge of the operator. By considering all eyes the sight of which was lost or de- stroyed as failures, all those with S < T^ as imperfect results, and those with S = or > ^ as perfect results, there were—losses, 3 ; imperfect results, 15; perfect results, 82. Most of the imperfect results were amended by subsequent operations ; and the ultimate result was, that 3 per cent, of loss, 6 per cent, of imperfect, and 91 per cent, of good success were obtained. The author enters fully into the details of his method of operating. "Wilson§ has also written very favorably of the results of the same procedure. Two cases of delirium in old people, supposed to be due to the in- stillation of atropine after the extraction of cataract, have been pub- lished by Eevillont|| and Laurenzo.^f * 'Archives of Ophthalmology and Otology.' t ' Giornalc d'Oftalmologia Italiano,' 1869. % ' Archives of Ophthalmology and Otology.' § 'Dublin Quarterly Journal,' Mav, 1870. jj ' Bull, de Thdrap.,' Oct., 1869. 'If 'Gaz. dcs Hop.,' 1869, No. 123.