196 REPORT ON SURGERY. patient having free motion of the articulation at the end of six weeks. | The e ffects of antiseptics on the salubrity of an hospital.—Mv. Lister writes on this subject. He says that the antiseptic system has heen in use long enough to allow of a fair estimate of its useful- ness as regards the salubrity of a hospital, being formed. He con- sidered the wards at Glasgow in a very unhealthy state. Various reve- lations as to causes for this were disclosed ifrom time to time, especially that there were a number of coffins, containing bodies, under the new building placed there at the time of the cholera epidemic. During three years however, there was complete immunity from the ordinary evils of surgical hospitals, since the introduction of the antiseptic plan. First of pysemia. This fearful disease used to occur principally in two classes of cases, namely, compound fractures and the major amputa- tions " In compound fractures it was so rife, just before the introduc- tion of the antiseptic system, that I had one of the sulphites adminis- tered internally, as a prophylactic, in accordance with lolh s views, to every patient admitted with this kind of injury, though I cannot say that we observed any distinct evidence of advantage from the practice. But since I began to treat compound fractures on the antiseptic system, while no internal treatment has been used, I have not had pyaemia m a single instance, although I have had in all thirty-two cases-six in the forearm, five in the arm, eighteen in the leg, and three m the thigh. These cases do not include those in which the injury was so- great as to demand immediate amputation. But, it must be remarked, that many of the limbs saved were so severely injured that I should formerly have removed them without hesitation. I almost forget the kind ol con- siderations which used to determine me to amputate under the o d treatment though I know that experience taught us that it was only rforparatively mild cases that it was justifiable to attempt to save the Hmb Now, however, there is scarcely any amount or kind of injury of braes ioints, or soft parts, which I regard as inconsistent with con- nive treatment, except such destruction of tissue as makes gan- grene of the limb inevitable as an immediate consequence. But 1 may take this opportunity of observing that the attempt to save a limb, which under ordinary treatment would be subjected to immediate iutS, ought not to be made lightly, or without a thorough Suaintance with some trustworthy method of carrying out the an - Stic svstem • by which I mean, not the mere use of an antiseptic, kow- ^potnt^ Inch management of the case as Jail the occurrence of putrefaction in the part concerned. 11 the ti eatmenc 7™t veil carried out, by the time it has failed the patient is so much W^tedff if Performed, is probably too late," and Ihus a loose and trifling style of "giving the treatment a trial' swells 3 p death-rate at once of compound fracture and of amputation. In two ears preceding the introduction of the antiseptic treatment pS*ZJncJea of amputation (major), sixteen died, or one death m 25'SfSdiltf S During tUntisepticperiod, ofMrgg Swefe only six deaths, or one death in every six and two thirds.