V Kit ATRIA. 1-S5 a trace of it was found. No increased diuresis was exhibited on either increasing or diminishing the dose of oil of copaiba. Hyosry amine.—Dr. E. Thorey* has extracted this alkaloid success- fully, and submitted its platinum-salt to analysis. From this he deduces the formula C45H70N2O,0 for the alkaloid. He also sets forth the reasons why other experimenters have so often failed to extract hyoscyamine. Papaverine.—Drs. Leidesdorf and Bresslauerf have arrived at the following conclusions as to the physiological and therapeutical actions of papaverine:—i. Papaverine has an hypnotic action on the human organism. 2. It diminishes the muscular activity, and is useful for this reason in cases of mania. 3. It diminishes with certainty the frequency of the pulse, not only in cases in which this is heightened by muscular exertion, but also in cases of melancholia, where the patient is con- tinually at rest. 4. The sedative action of papaverine is preceded by no stage of excitement. 5. Whether administered subcutaneously or bv the mouth, it causes neither nausea, vomiting, dizziness, nor head- ache ; it does not cause constipation, but in many cases the reverse condition. 6. The subcutaneous injection of muriate of papaverine produces no local inconvenience in and about the place of application. 7. The action of papaverine is developed slowly, usually in from four to seven hours after administration, and does not entirely pass off till after the lapse of from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. 8. Papaverine acts in cases where opium and morphia, even in large doses, have proved utterly useless. 9. Habitual use does not speedily cause the drug to lose its effect; consequently, an increase in the dose is not necessary even after long use of the narcotic. 10. Papaverine counteracts ex- citement, mania, and sleeplessness only as a palliative; upon insanity itself, or upon its causes, it exerts no direct or marked influence. 11. After long-continued use of papaverine the improved state of nutrition observed is assignable to the quietude induced by the employment of the medicament. Anaesthetics.—Dr. Hermann Kbhler,J of Halle, contributes a long and interesting article on anaesthetics, in which he gives an elaborate review of all the more recent progress made in this department. The whole question of physiological action, symptoms, results, poisoning, and treat- ment thereof, is very fully entered into. The article is too long for abstraction. Veratria.—Dr. Pegaitaz§ concludes from his experiments on the sub- cutaneous injection of this alkaloid in pneumonia and pleurisy—1. That veratria, administered by hypodermic injection, diminishes pyrexia more rapidly than when taken internally. 2. In other respects the action of veratia is the same, by whatever method it is administered. 3. The pain attending the injection in general forbids its employment hypo- dermically. 4. The sucbutaneous injection of veratria produces the same results in animals as in man. * 'Pharm. Ztschr. f. Russ.,' 1869, viii, 6 and 7. f ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 145, p. 276. 1 Ibid., p. 305. § Ibid., p. 274.