ABJ1* llOSl'lTAl, CiANCiKENK. an In many cases of gunshot wound which subsequently became gan- grenous, the attention of the patient was first directed to the wound by a pricking and darting pain like that of ten thousand needles ; in others there was stinging and itching only, whilst iu others there was little or no local pain or uneasiness. In some instances the wounds first of all became dark red and glazed, both granulations and pus dis- appearing, whilst a reddish or greenish sanious and fetid discharge followed. The wound would become smaller and ragged, and finally appear as a greenish or greyish gangrenous mass. When the wounds were extensive, the gangrene would appear in several spots, and from these gradually spread. In bad cases the gangrene would appear in from twenty-four to seventy-two hours after an operation. The blood- vessels around a gangrenous wound are always engorged with blood, and in several instances rapid recovery followed a haemorrhage from these. "When the system is thoroughly poisoned, gangrene will some- times make its appearance remote from any wound, and without any apparent, adequate cause. In such cases a blue or purple spot is first seen, the cuticle being sometimes raised and containing serum. In bad cases the skin may apparently dissolve away before the gangrene. The adipose and connective tissues give way most readily; the muscles, nerves, large blood-vessels, and bones less so, though the blood-vessels give way more frequently than in certain other forms of gangrene— hence haemorrhages are more common than in these. Sometimes the skin may appear healthy when the tissues beneath are gangrenous. When gangrene ends favorably, the healthy surface becomes bright red and its granulations are exquisitely sensitive, but even after this death may result from exhaustion. The gangrenous matter consists of the various tissues in a disorganized state, together with the products of these. Pus-corpuscles are absent, and their appearance is to be esteemed a favorable sign; Living organisms may also be detected. Dr. Jones does not think that there is any necessary connection be- tween gangrene and scurvy. The two may exist together, and, when so, their ravages are frightful; and it is difficult, if not impossible, to eradicate the gangrene without treating the scurvy. The essential nature of hospital gangrene Dr. Jones considers to be inflammatory, and that its local manifestations give rise to general febrile action as the result of the poison. There is also a marked difference between the temperature of the extremities and that of the trunk, depending on general weakness and imperfect circulation. In its course this disease would seem to observe no uniform period, either with regard to death or to recovery, the condition of the patient's bodily health in- fluencing very greatly the result. The disease is especially dangerous when in, or near, a large joint, or along the track of important vessels or organs. Dr. Jones has never seen a case recover in which either the knee or the hip-joints were laid open, or even where the elbow-joint was opened, unless the limb was amputated. As the result of the gangrene, contraction and deformity will result, and the amount of this in no way depends on the importance of the primary wound. Care should be taken to keep the parts in a proper position, whilst long-con- tinued pressure should be avoided as almost certain to cause gangrene.