68 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the disease corresponded; the length of the first attack was $'3 days, that of the intermission 8-o, and that of the relapse y6. Recovery was very prolonged, on an average 45"6 days. No fatal case occurred. Aufrecht (ib., s. 307), after stating that no case occurred in Mag- deburg itself, mentions that fifteen cases, one only of which was a female, were admitted into hospital from various districts and towns. The first was taken in July 20, 1868; the rest between Dec. 31, 1868, and the end of February, 1869. Two relapses occurred in one case only. All recovered. "Wunderlich ('Arch, der Heilk.,' x, 314) treated seven cases in Leipsig, five imported from Berlin, one from East Friesland, and only one occur- ring in the town itself, the latter without any proof of contagion. The disease ran its usual course, especially so far as the temperature, pulse, and sweating were concerned. In one fatal case the autopsy showed the spleen enlarged, soft, and of a brownish-red colour, with numerous scattered hemorrhagic points. Almost all the lymphatic glands were swollen, soft, succulent, presenting recent hyperemia, in several places with medullary infiltration. Steffen (' Jahrb. f. Kinderk.,' ii, 61) gives, with very full tables, tem- perature curves, &c, four cases of relapsing fever occurring at Stettin in Aug., Sept., and Oct., 1868, in two brothers, set. 12 and 13 years, and two sisters, set. 13^ and 7^. The last two had suffered from typhus (exanth.) and typhoid in the two preceding years. In the first two cases there was moderate enlargement of the spleen, and the period between the acme and the relapse was only a few hours. In correspond- ence with this the collapse after the second attack was trifling, and in place of the usual critical and abundant perspiration there was a general and extensive miliary eruption. In the second set of cases the relapse lasted for two and a half days, and here, too, though there was no miliary eruption, the critical sweating was absent. In all the cases the sensorium was completely free throughout. Losch ('"Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1869, p. 108) publishes a case of febris recurrens, in a man est. 27, in whom, while the disease ran its ordinary course, the first attack was followed by an eruption of urticaria, extend- ing over the whole body, except the face and hands, accompanied, where it was most developed, by slight itching. Eiesenfeld ('Virch. Archiv,' xlvii, p. 130) publishes, under Virchow's direction, analyses of the urine in thirteen cases of relapsing fever, all of which recovered. The ages were mostly between twenty and thirty. The amount of urates was not critical. Albumen was always present, and often casts of the tubes as well. (This differs from Murchison's experience.) No sugar or bile-pigment was detected. The chlorides were diminished or absent, as in other fevers. The urea was in creased in amount with each attack, but not in proportion to the increase in temperature, and it also fell more slowly. The phosphates were in- creased, and appeared to vary almost directly with the urea. Tables of curves in five cases are added. Huppert ('Archiv d. Heilk.,' x, 503) has made observations on the transformation of nitrogen in this disease in two patients, males, both well nourished, one (H.) sat. i8£, the other (E.) set. 22. They were