347 SURGERY. cruishable, although not sharply defined. At the border there will be a slight elevation, and the abscess appears to be surrounded by a halo of "clear grey, marked by radiating striae. The surface is always dull, and is often here and there denuded of its epithelium. The aspect depends upon both the colour and the quantity of the contained fluid. The surface may be altogether prominent, but more frequently only in places, especially towards the lower border or some other part of the margin; sometimes it is regularly or irregularly depressed below the normal surface, but never so as to form a funnel-shaped cavity, nor to be surrounded by abrupt margins. It may be pierced by a single per- foration, or by holes like a sieve; and eventually the anterior wall may be altogether displaced by the movements of the lid. In very Blight cases, when the pus formation is small in quantity, the presence of an abscess is often difficult to determine. At first there is only to be seen a diffused turbidity and some dulness of the cornea, with more or less ciliary injection. At the next visit, perhaps, the periphery of the cornea will again be clear, smooth and lustrous, while the centre pre- sents a defined circle with a slightly deeper margin, from two to four lines in diameter, of a dull grey, deprived here and there of epithelium, and often of a gelatinous aspect. Through a lens, or even by the naked eye, this circle is seen to contain spots or stria? of deeper colour, pro- bably due to aggregations of pus-corpuscles. We can only be quite cer- tain of the existence of an abscess when the presence of pus declares itself either by a yellow turbidity at some part of the margin or in the form of onyx or hypopyon. If, after the lapse of a day or two, no such accumulation should appear, there remains only the circular turbidity, in which the presence of pus cannot be determined with certainty. This slight form need not be dwelt upon at any length, although it is of interesting character, and does not appear to have been previously specially described. Unless neglected, and suffered to reach an advanced stage, it will speedily recover under the use of atropine and a compres- sive bandage. In declared abscess the degree of participation of the nervous and vascular systems varies greatly, even in the same individual. The pains in the eye and the corresponding side of the head, as well as reflex irritation of the iris, the lachrymal glands and the orbicular muscles, may be violent or very slight. The circumcorneal redness, chiefly that dependent upon the anterior ciliary arteries, subsequently that of the whole of the ocular conjunctiva, is at first vivid and bright; but gene- rally soon becomes dull, and at last ceases to be very marked. The general aspect of the eye recalls that of neuro-paralytic keratitis, but differs from this in that the conjunctival secretion is unaltered in character or quantity, and that sensibility is retained. The develop- ment of vessels in the cornea, beneath Bowman's membrane, is seen only at a somewhat advanced period, and has a less favorable signi- ficance than in cases of open ulcer, where such development prevents an extended breaking up of the corneal tissue. It is comparatively rare to see the very commencement of a corneal abscess, more on account of the rapid formation of pus thau from delay in seeking advice. Especially in cases of traumatic origin, not