REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 14 which can he separated from one another by mechanical means, or by filtration through an animal membrane. The details of the methods to be pursued are given in the original paper. A temperature exceeding 1040 Eahr. operates destructively on the animal ferment that converts starch into sugar, but temperatures between 68° and 1040 do not check its action. The temperature at which human saliva, diluted with ten or twelve parts of water, acts most energetically on boiled starch is from ioo° to 1060 Eahr. Above or below these degrees the action is feebler. The temperature at which the action of the malt ferment on boiled starch is most active is 13 8° Fahr. The movements of the intestines have been carefully studied by MM. Legros and Onimus,* who introduced a sound, to the extremity of which a caoutchouc ball was fastened, into the intestines through a fistulous orifice. Various stimuli were applied to the intestines. They found that under ordinary circumstances regular peristaltic (rarely anti-peristaltic) contractions take place with intervening periods of rest. Very rarely a part of the intestine contracts per se. The contractions of the upper part of the intestine succeed one another more quickly than those of the lower. The contractions of the large intestine differ in amount, duration, and force, from those of the small. The movements of the stomach are not so regular as those of the intestine, and differ in the cardiac and pyloric regions. Interruption of the arterial current in- creases the peristaltic movements, but interruption of the venous current is without effect. Induction currents of electricity cause con- traction at the poles, but relaxation between them. Constant currents stop the peristaltic movements, and cause relaxation of the intestinal walls, providing they are passed in the direction of the normal move- ments, but contraction when in the opposite direction. Excitation of the central extremity of the cut vagus in the neck stops the intestinal movements, relaxing the walls of the intestines. Excitation of the distal extremity is inoperative. Iced water causes contraction, warm water or solution of common salt increases the movements, as do also croton oil and ipecacuanha and atropia in small doses. Morphia retards them. Strychnia causes contraction of the intestine coincidently with the general convulsions. Voitf and BruckeJ both call in question the statement now generally made that albuminous compounds must be altogether reduced to pep- tones before absorption, Voit finding that in the ligatured loops of intes- tines of dogs and cats, an acid-albuminate (acid juice of muscle) is absorbed with almost as much rapidity as peptone ; and that even ser- and ov-albumen were, though more slowly, taken up, whilst Briicke observed coagulation on the application of heat take place in the chyle within the villi. Meissner, however,§ well observes that Briicke does not explain how, notwithstanding the variety of forms of albumen that are ingested, only one or two forms proper to the animal examined are found in the blood. * 'Journal cle 1'Anatomie et de la Physiologic,' vi, p. 37 and 163. t 'Voit and J. Bauer,' Zeitschrift fur Biologie,' v, p. 536. X 'Wiener Sitzungsberichte/ lix, 1869. § ' Bericht uber die Fortschritte der Pbysiologie im Jahre,' 1869.