CItOUP AND DIPHTHERIA. 9 129 case ; the improbability of any morbid origin existing in the nerv* centres, winch can narrow the glottis, without also dilating it exclndp* with certainly any central lesion. The same argument holds goodhS the vagus and rceurrens, and the author opposes Gerhardt's view tlmf there must be some one pathological element alone to affect exactly that point of the recurrent nerve (the whole diameter of which is verv small) by which the shutting and opening is governed. Quito as un- supported by proof is the view that one of the two branches of the recurrent, the superior or inferior, is affected. The affection itself is in most cases of a rheumatic nature: the paralysis occurs at one time tike tacial paralysis independently, or in connection with rheumatic inflammation of the joints; in other cases it succeeds severe catarrh ot the larynx or removal of polypi, or strong cauterisation, and then ceases of itseli after a short time. One of the causes of this affection is the great exertion required for closing the vocal cords in sineins? shouting, or using words of command. Of nineteen patients of this Kind whom he had an opportunity of observing, six were singers, four actors, and two teachers. The paper concludes with seven cases of vocal paralysis m illustration of the preceding remarks, with woodcuts repre- appearances of the paralysed parts duri^ *&Z2££&^tZ^ 'Deut> ArcV vif 37: id-' "Ueber Ldhmung Croup and Diphtheria* Johnson(" The Morbid Anatomy of Croup," < Brit. Med.Journ. ' 1870 1, 4), insists that under the name of croup, English writers confound two distinct diseases : 1 Acute catarrhal laryngitis, inflammatory croup of chddren; in which, whether m them or in adults, the only structural change after death is congestion and swelling, with, sometimes, super- hcial abrasion of the mucous membrane, and mucous or puriform exu- dation on the surface, but no tenacious false membrane. 2. Diphthe- ritic croup, attended both in children and in adults with the formation ot a more or less abundant and tenacious false membrane in the air- passages, dependent not on the age of the patient, but on the specific character of the disease. In the latter affection he considers that local remedies are especially valuable Barthez (< Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 37), gives a case of croup in a girl ™ r £?iai\°n Wh°m trac^eotomJ was performed, the wound taking r 26th, Jay aPPearance later, and the canula being kept in tiU thi +l iV^'-61™ °bf rTed h? K°niS 0Berl- Woch.,' i860, 108), the diphtheria spread almost always by contagion, once from direct poisoning by means of an instrument, which having been employed upon a diphtheritic child was afterwards used for a complicated harelip opera- tion on a baby the latter becoming affected the third day, and dying 5 beside this, a child operated upon for empyema died from extension of .mtnl^n^f0!-0"' have: S" Sake of convenience, been placed here, instead of among general diseases, with which, in all probability, they should be classed.—A. B S.