EXCISION OP ANKLE. 209 paper before the Med. and Cliir. Soc. on supra-condyloid amputation of the thigh. The differences between the plan proposed by the author and the Italian modification of Gardens (known as G-ritti's) are— ist. That the femoral section is made, in all cases, fully half an inch above the antero-superior edge of the condyloid articular cartilage. 2nd. That in all cases the cartilaginous surface of the patella must be removed. 3rd. That the flap should be oval, not rectangular. 4th. That there should be a posterior flap fully one third of the length of the anterior one. The author then stated the advantages which he believed supra-condyloid amputations possessed over those through the joint. 1. The stump being more useful in progression. 2, Possibility of making pressure on the face of the stump. 3. The patient not being obliged to walk as if he had anchylosis of the hip-joint. 4. The opera- tion being less hazardous than amputation of the thigh, from being further removed from the trunk. 5. The shock is less than after the higher amputations of the thigh. 6. The muscular interspaces are unopened. 7. Less chance of protracted suppuration, from the anterior flap consisting for the most part of skin and fascia. 8. Less chance of purulent absorption, from the posterior surface of the anterior flap being covered with synovial membrane. 9. Probable advantages derived from having the cut surface of the femur covered by the patella. 10. Advantages derived from preserving the attachments of the exten- sors of the thigh. 11. Impossibility of a conical stump resulting. 12. No liability to the formation of tubular sequestra. 13. Less chance of phlebitis, from the vessels being all divided at right angles to their continuity, not obliquely, as in all other flap amputations, which neces- sitates the wounds in the vessels being so much greater in extent. He considered this operation to include the advantages of both the flap and circular amputations of the thigh, and the defects of neither. (' Lancet,' June 8, 1870.) Amputations.—Of 137 amputations the mortality was, of shoulder, 63 per cent.; of arm, 38 per cent.; of forearm, 12 per cent.; of hip, 100 per cent. ; of thigh, 56 per cent.; of leg, 32 per cent.; of foot, 40 per cent. ('Boston City Hosp. Eep.,' 1870, pp. 601—648.) Resection of the tibio-tarsal articulation.—Dr. Spillman, Professeur- agrege at the Val-de-Grace Hospital, collects in the ' Archives Gene- rales de Med.' for February, 1869, notes of a number of cases of ei'-ision of the ankle-joint, and makes some comments on the ope- rations. He arranges the cases in three categories :—1. Those in which the operation was undertaken on account of fracture or dislocation. 2. Those where it was performed on account of gunshot wounds. 3. Those in which the part was excised on account of disease. In the first category, 68 cases are referred to, in which the operation was done within six weeks from the receipt of the injury. Of these, 15 failed, as follows:—11 died, in 2 the patients died after secondary amputation, and in 2 others secondary amputation was successful. After an elaborate description of the merits of the operation in such cases, Spillman arrives at the following conclusions:—1. Resection of 14