CHLORAL HYDRATE. 479 and important of recent additions to the articles of materia medica, and we owe to Dr. Liebreich, of Berlin, the merit of its introduction. Chloral is trichlorinated aldehyd, i. e. aldehyd in which three of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by an equal number of atoms of chlorine, and its composition is represented by the formula C2HC130. It was discovered by Liebig in 1839, and is prepared by the action of chlorine on alcohol, aldehyd, or liquids containing these substances. Chloral, which is a liquid at ordinary temperatures, when mixed with a small quantity of water takes up a molecule of this and forms a solid hydrate, C.,HC130, H20, and it is this hydrate, dissolved in water or other appropriate solvent, that is used for medicinal purposes, either subcutaneously or internally. The dose for an adult varies from 25 grains to 100 or even 120 grains, according to the size of the indivi- dual, 40 grains being an average dose. It is thought by many to be a pure hypnotic, inducing sleep, removing sensibility, bringing down the temperature, and causing extreme muscular relaxation. The diminu- tion or abolition of sensibility is, perhaps, only a temporary condition, as afterwards there appears to be an increase of sensibility. One theory of the action of chloral hydrate is that, under the influence of the alkali of the blood, chloroform and a formate of the alkali are formed, and that it is the chloroform thus generated which produces hypnotic effects. Chloral and its hydrate, when treated with an alkali, at once yield chlo- roform and a formate (C2HCl30 + NaHO = CHCl3 + NaCH02). The uses to which chloral hydrate is now put are very numerous, and it has become quite a common pharmaceutical substance. Passing by the various, and in some respects contradictory, state- ments which have appeared in English serial publications, for these must be familiar to our readers, we find the following among Conti- nental literature: Drs. Labbe and Goujon* have made, apparently, an elaborate series of experiments on animals, with the view of elucidating the physiology of the action of chloral hydrate. This was administered in three differ- ent ways—injected directly into a vein, subcutaneously injected, and passed into the stomach. The observers come to the conclusion that chloral is not converted into chloroform in the organism, for no odour of the latter substance could be detected in the breath, and, till after the addition of potash, the blood of a dog that had received a large dose of chloral had no odour of chloroform. A dog to which twelve grains of the drug was administered, by injection into a vein, recovered, whilst very small quantities of chloroform thus administered proved fatal. It is admitted, however, that in this case some chloroform was generated, for the breath of the animal smelt of that substance. Another proof that chloral is not converted into chloroform is stated to be that after its administration the urine did not react with Fehling's test for sugar, as it is well known is the case after a dose of chloroform has been taken. Bouchutt has likewise experimented with this agent, and concludes —(1) Chloral is a powerful sedative to the motor and sensory nervous * 'Gaz. des H6p.,' 1869, p. 483. t ' Bull, de Then,' lxxvii, p. 433.