NEURALGIA, MENINGITIS, ETC. H7 fatty substitute for it; (3) subcutaneous injection of morphia (gr I twice daily, increased in rare cases to gr. 1), or when that fails of atropine (gr. Js) ; and (4), when possible, the constant current. Mitchell («Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,' lviii, 16) encountered from time to time certain forms of neuralgia, accompanied by muscular spasms and extravasations of blood in the affected part. He relates three cases, all occurring in females ; and explains the circumscribed hemorrhages by nutritive changes in the walls of the vessels, occasioned by conditions of the nervous system, analogous to atrophic changes in the skin and nails in nervous diseases. He believes that purpura in certain cases may be as justly classed with the neuroses as herpes. Nothnagel ("Tropische Storungen bei Neuralgieen," 'Arch. f. Psy- ehiatre,' ii, 29) concludes that the view as to the participation of the so-called trophic nerves in neuralgia cannot be held till the existence of these nerves is more surely demonstrated, and while other explana- tions are at hand, upon which reliance may be placed. In individual cases the long-continued absence of motion may certainly be the cause of the atrophy. In the majority (four out of five) of cases of neuralgic atrophy observed by him, a distinct affection of the vascular nerves, as evidenced by arterial spasm, could be recognised. This was not found m any case of simple sciatica. He concludes that it is probable that the affection of the vascular nerves, with its consequences, is to be looked upon as the cause of the changes in nutrition. Tripier (" Pathogenie d'une classe peu connue d'affections doulou- reuses.—Algies centriques et reflexes," 'Arch. Gen. de Med.,' i860, ii 399) sums up his paper as follows:—The nerves of sensation even m the cerebro-spinal system may transmit morbid impressions, in- dependently of their excitation being perceived, and without' any consciousness of the process. The nerve-centre consecutively affected may act m its turn on the other nerves of sensation, sometimes para- lysing them, generally causing them to be the seat of pain. The localisation of these secondary reflex actions is governed by the special Lability of certain nerves and nerve-territories to receive impressions and by the fact of neighbourhood (a branch of the same pair being generally affected). When a painful phenomenon is met with the organic cause of which cannot be connected, either by observation or induction, with the seat of pain, it must be sought in the other branches of the same pair, or in some organ known to be in physio- logical or pathological relation with the affected part, and to this primitive lesion must treatment in the first instance be addressed He gives six cases in support of his thesis. Finco, " Xeuralgie guarite coll' ustione del piede e dell' orecchio," ' Gaz. Med. Ital Lornb 1869,77; Chapman, "Neuralgia: its Pathology and Treatment," <Med. Times ?»«J> r "11 'I 9' h 29 V I ' 0 Tw? Tcases °,f Neuralgia with grave complications treated successfully by means of the Spinal Icebag," ib., ii, 622. Meningitis, Acute Hydrocephalus, Acute (Edema of the Brain, Congestion, and Hemorrhage. In two cases of tubercular meningitis in adults,. Gairdner (' Glasg.