the child: vaccination. 439 on in Paris, Brussels, Botterdam and Amsterdam, in 1869. "With reference to the transmissibilitt/ of cow-pox unimpaired, from calf to calf, the evidence is conflicting. M. Lanoix said that since he first brought his calf from Naples in 1864 he had never failed to continue the disease by inoculation. It appears, however, that a certain amount of skill is necessary, for M. "Warlomont states that now he succeeds perfectly, whereas at first his unsuccesses were so numerous that, had he been determined by his first year's work, he could not but have abandoned the practice. Moreover, at Botterdam Dr. Bezeth reports that after two or three months the eruption on the calf became much less pronounced, and the results on the human subject were frequently imperfect and abortive; fresh lymph was obtained, which in every case seemed to undergo a similar deterioration, resulting in these constantly and almost periodically renewed features, for which there must be some cause other than the peculiarities of the animals used. The character and course of the pocks produced on children by animal vaccine lymph were carefully studied in Paris and Botterdam. The pocks had the same character, ran the same course, and manifested the same varieties as Dr. Seaton was in the habit of seeing produced at the public vaccination stations in England. In order to enable us to arrive at a conclusion as to the comparative success of vaccination with animal and with humanised vaccine lymph, the author gives the following results of the two modes of practice on children in the Paris hospitals, from the 1st of October, 1867, to the 30th of October, 1869, inclusive, and in Botterdam tor the year 1869 : Proportion per cent. Total cases. of.inspected cases unsuccessful. Paris— From heifer to arm . . 7000 . . .21 From arm to arm . . 3119 ... 7 Rotterdam— From heifer to arm . . 542 . . . 12*3 From arm to arm . . 610 . . . 0*65 " So far, then, as evidence at present goes," to quote the words of Dr. Seaton, " it appears quite clear—(1) that the present degree of success attending the practice of animal vaccination is, in comparison with the success attendant on vaccination from arm to arm, very low, and such as to constitute a most serious drawback to its use, supposing that other reasons were deemed sufficiently strong to render its intro- duction as an alternative proceeding desirable; (2) that much training and experience are indispensable to the attainment of even that degree of success which at present attends it. If practised and most scrupu- lously careful vaccinators, anxiously endeavouring to make their expe- riment successful, and neglecting no known precaution for the purpose, find after two years' experience that in vaccinating direct from the heifer to the arm they arc obliged, in one eighth of their cases, to vacci- nate a second time before they can produce any effect, and that in the end very nearly one fourth of the children who are infected in this way