123 LOCOMOTOR ATAXY. cord:—(i) A paralysis of varying intensity, commencing insidiously in the lower extremities, and gradually attacking the upper. (2) At the very begiuniug increased reflex irritability, which manifests itself either iu au apparently spontaneous manner as muscular tension, continued or temporary rigidity and spasm, or, more particularly, as excessive con- traction on irritating the skin, especially by the electric current, which lasts some time after the irritating cause has ceased. (3) Persistent, or only very slightly destroyed, or even increased, skin-sensibility in the paralysed parts, and normal function of the urinary and sexual organs. (4) In more advanced stages, irritation of the centres of speech and eye-movement, sbown in stammering and nystagmus. (5) Persistent excitability, on faradization of the paralysed muscles, and incapacity to control the disordered gait by the eye. Leube, " Ueber multiple inselformige Sklerose des Gebirns und Riickenmarks," 'Deut. Archiv,' viii, i. Zenker, "Zur Lehre von rler inselformigen Hirnsklerose," ib., 126; Magnan, " Note sur un cas de paralysie generate avec pachymeningite cerebro-spinale, sclerose interstitielle diffuse de la moelle et localisations partielles sous forme d'ilots, de Sclerose ou de plaques irregulieres," ' Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1869, 611. Locomotor Ataxy. Lockbart Clarke ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869, ii, 4, &c), after re- counting the symptoms and morbid anatomy of the disease, as already known, gives two cases occurring in his own practice; one of which, not dead at the time, presented all the characteristic symptoms; the other, which terminated fatally, wanted some of them, though the autopsy showed the usual and expected appearances, consisting in grey degene- ration and disintegration of the posterior columns throughout the whole length of the cord, with, in addition, a softening and disintegra- tion of the grey substance in every part, but more especially in the lower dorsal and lumbar regions, about the centre of each lateral half and around the canal. He lays weight upon his own researches into the anatomy of the spinal cord, and their connection with the pathology of the disease in question; and after describing the three modes in which the roots of the posterior nerves traverse the column, insists upon the fact that the want of co-ordination is due to a partial destruction of posterior nerve-roots, consequently a partial loss of tension by muscles supplied by those roots—a partial loss of muscular tone. In the same way he explains the numbness and loss of sensibility experienced in different parts of the body, which, at the same time, are the seats of the most excruciating pains. It is evident that when the nerve-roots are severed by disintegration in the posterior columns, their peripheral ends can no longer transmit impressions to the cord ; but their central ends may still be connected with the grey substance of the cord, and may, therefore, convey to it those irritating impressions that are caused by the process of their disintegration. In conclusion, he refers to the experiments of CI. Bernard, Brown-Sequard, and others, on section of the posterior columns, in connection with the light they throw upon the