POISONING. 457 gastric mucous membrane was studded with small, blue, rounded masses, which were unaffected by dilute acids, but the colour of which was discharged by alkalies and by solution of ammonia. These were found to consist, of Prussian blue. A quantity of sulphate of potassium and of sulphide of iron was also detected in the stomach. M. Roussin concludes that Troppmau had made the poison by the well-known process of distilling ferrocyanide of potassium with dilute sulphuric acid, and that owiug to the want of care with which the operation had been conducted, the products ordinarily left behind in the retort had been carried over into the receiver. This would certainly account for the peculiar substances met with in the stomach of Jean Kinck, for the products ordinarily left behind in the retort during the distillation of prussic acid in the manner described are a white ferrocyanide of iron and potassium, and protosulphate of iron. The former salt, according to M. Eoussio, had been slowly converted by oxygen into a form of Prussian blue, whilst the latter had become changed into sulphide of iron by the sulphuretted hydrogen evolved during putrefaction. He was hence enabled to report that the deceased probably died from the effects of prussic acid, although none of the poison was detected in the stomach. _ Aconite.—Dr. Pliickiger* adds to our knowledge of the active prin- ciples of this drug. His paper treats of the alkaloids contained in several plants belonging to the genus aconitum. The author distin- guishes between aconitine, pseudaconitine, napelline, and lycoctonine. The first of these alkaloids is the most important, and possesses among others the following properties :—It becomes soft and pasty in boiling water, and imparts a violet colour to phosphoric acid, when evaporated along with that substance to a syrupy consistence on a water-bath, and this persists even for days after the cooling of the mass. The aqueous solution of aconitine has a bitter, but not acrid, taste ; the solution is not precipitated by platinic chloride, but the solution of the double salt of mercuric and potassic iodides produces in such solutions a copious non-crystalline precipitate. Aconitine is very soluble in ether, chloro- form, and alcohol; it is anhydrous, and its nitrate crystallizes readily. Pseudaconitine does not become pasty in hot water, and does not ex- hibit the reaction with phosphoric acid described above. It is soluble in water, ether, alcohol, and chloroform, with great difficulty, and crys- tallizes more readily (in large prismatic crystals) than aconitine. Atropine.—Dr. Thomas R. Fraser,f of Edinburgh, gives an investi- gation into some previously undescribed tetanic symptoms produced by atropine in cold-blooded animals, with a comparison of the action of atropine on cold-blooded animals and on mammals. The principal results that were obtained are thus summarised:—1. Atropia produces in frogs well-marked convulsive and tetanic symptoms, which, when present in an extreme degree, form a separate stage in the poisoning, succeeding that of paralysis. 2. Tetanic symptoms follow the subcu- taneous administration of a dose of sulphate of atropia equivalent to the 1-1 ooth of the weight of the frog, and of doses a little greater or * 'Pharm. Ztschr. f. Russ.,' 1870, No. 9 ; ' Chem. News,' xxii, p. 216. f ' Trans. Roy. Soc, Bdinb,,' xxv, p. 449.