2 ')(> 15EPOUT ON SURGERY. recovered its health and did well for two years, when it died somewhat afd S SVrptoms of enteritis- Mr Paset £SS£$ saia mat the iailures were more numerous than the successes He had under h.s care a patient on whom he had operated fourteen years before Ihere was an opening by the vagina at birth. He had made an artificial opening where the opening should have been, and had kept it patent ever since. There was no passage through the vagina unless when the taeces were fluid. He asked whether a patient with imperforate anus bad ever lived to the age of thirty. He mentioned the case of a young woman who, for seventeen years, had an opening between the vagina and rectum, but the collection in the gut became enormous. The rectum in these cases forms a large pouch, communicating by a very small opening with the colon, and it was so in this case. He dilated the opening and scooped out masses of very hard faeces and crystallized triple phosphate It Anally emptied itself, and now the patient passes the fieces through the vaginal opening. He had treated from ten to fifteen cases and these were the only two which had proved so far successful (' Brit Med. Journ.,' April 23, 1870.) Congenital absence of the rectum.—Mr. Couper showed a specimen from a child on whom he had operated for imperforate anus. The upper dilated portion of the vagina (the child being a female) formed a pouch whmh was considered to be the end of the rectum during the operation' The child died unrelieved, and the rectum was then found to terminate as a fibrous cord, adherent to the promontory of the sacrum f Path' Trans.,' xxi, p. 193.) v Polypus of the rectum.—Br. Miller narrates the case of a woman from whose rectum he removed a fibrous polypus. He remarks that most surgical writers consider the affection to be a rare one Mr Henry Smith describes five forms, but omits the fibrous, and a new classification is proposed, omitting Mr. Smith's first—«processes of the mucous membrane standing out prominent in the cavity of the rectum." This the author does not consider a form of polypus. His division is — j The mucous or glandular. 2. Fibrous. 3. Malignant forms. Thirty- nine cases are collected from various sources, and the following deduc- tions stated:—1. Polypus of the rectum is a rare disease. 2. The glandular is the form most frequently met with, the malignant next and the fibrous most rarely (24, 8, and 6 in 39). 3. The glandular occurs most frequently in children, and the fibrous and malignant in adults (16 and 6 m the former, 13 and 1 in the latter). 4. On the whole polypus is met with as frequently in adults as in children, eighteen of each having been recorded. The ligature is the safest and the proper instrument to employ. The polypus may be cut off directly, but the vascularity is such as to require the previous precaution of a ligature. In the one under care, though apparently non-vascular, on examination a large vessel was found in the pedicle. Altogether, seven forms have been described, but they can all be brought under the three heads given above. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' January, 1870.) Puncture of bowel to relieve distension.—A case in which puncture