393 PREGNANCY. child is born, instead of putting the ligatures round the cord, and dividing it between them, only one ligature be applied, and after dividing the cord on the placental side of the ligature tbe blood be collected, assisted by squeezing the cord downwards, from three to four ounces of blood can be obtained. Now, the blood is never partly of the one colour, and partly of the other, but either wholly black or wholly red; and it can be obtained of either colour according to the mode in which the experiment is performed. If the cord be tied the moment the child draws its first breath and cries, then the whole blood, both from the arteries and from the vein, is black ; but on allowing it to stand exposed to the air, it becomes florid on the surface like ordi- nary blood, showing it to be quite susceptible of being acted on by oxygen if there had been any of that gas supplied to it by the placenta. Buchanan infers, therefore, that the black blood of the umbilical arteries undergoes no change of colour in passing through the placenta, but returns through the veins of the same colour. If, again, the child be allowed to breathe freely before the cord is tied, then the whole blood obtained from the cord is of a bright red colour, which it has manifestly acquired in the lungs of the child before going to the placenta. (There seems to be a fallacy in these observations. After the expul- sion of the child, and especially after the child has breathed, as in these observations, the placental circulation is no longer what it was, whilst the foetus was in utero. It is disturbed in two ways, first by the con- traction of the uterus; secondly, by the establishment of lung-circu- lation in the fcetus.—~R. B.) Dr. Buchanan also discusses the question, do respiratory movements ever occur before birth ? In a head-last labour, tbe chest being in the pelvis and the head still in utero, he observed regular rhythmical movements of the chest exactly resembling those of respiration. The cord was pulsating throughout. Another case illustrating the relations of twin pregnancy is very interesting. It is headed—Twins, one of which unconsciously sucked his brother's blood, and so deprived him of life. The child first born was remarkably vigorous, respiring deeply, the whole surface was livid. The cord was quickly tied. The other child presented a marked contrast; it was pale and exsanguine ; it never cried, but after some time a feeble respiration was established. The cord was immediately tied. The child was kept warm, and survived about thirty hours. There was only one oval placenta. Dr. Allen Thomson examined it, and found free vascular communication throughout every part of it, so that liquid injected through tbe vessels of one cord returned rapidly by the other. It is clear (says Dr. Buchanan) that the child first born, by its vigorous inspirations, filled its own vessels, both pulmonary and systemic, with blood, so draining off from the placenta the brother's share. (' Glasgow Med. Journ.,' 1870.) Dr. Duroziez has studied the question of the enlargement of the heart under pregnancy on 135 women. Taking the normal area of the heart in non-pregnant women to be nine centimeters high and twelve centi- meters wide, he arrived at the following conclusions:—!. That the