HE PORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 152 returned suddenly to its normal action, and the patient to his ordinary condition. Niemeyer, P., " Bntwurf ciner einlieitliclien Theorie der Herz-Gefiiss- und Lungen- geriiusche," ' Deut. Arch.,' vii, 136; Thamm, " Bcitriige zur Lehre iibcr Venenpuls und Gefiissgeriiusche," ' Berl. klin. Woch.,' 1869, 129; Niemeyer, P., "Die Herzgeniusche, ihre Geschiehte und ihre Theorie," 'Deut. Klin.,' '1869, 433; Powell, "Notes on Displacements of the Heart," ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869, ii, 54; Saitcr, " On Presystolic Murmur," 'Lancet,' 1869, ii, 565; Fothergill, "The Diagnostic Value of Accentuation of the Second Sound of the Heart," ib., 633; id., " Digitalis in Disease of the Heart," ' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' xiv, 876 ; Dobell, " On Pain at the Heart and its Neighbourhood," 'Med. Press and Circ.,' 1869, ii, 115; Smith, "Heart Disease, in which the Symptoms during Life were referred to the^Stomach," ib., i, 5; Wilks, "Disturbance of the Heart in Renal Disease," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 326; Buchanan, A., "On the Force of the Human Heart," 'Lancet,' 1870,^,665; Haviland, " Sea-air and Heart Disease," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869, ii, 70. Embolism, Thrombosis, Sfc. Feltz ('Traite Clinique et Experimental des Embolies capillaires,' and ed., Bailliere, 1870) gives numerous experiments in which he produced capillary embolia in rabbits, guinea-pigs, dogs, and frogs, by injecting charcoal powder or pulverized fibrine into their veins; death occurred sometimes immediately, always within five minutes. The lungs were found gorged with blood, and the microscope showed the presence of the foreign particles in their tissue. Death was caused by plugging of the capillaries and arrested supply of blood. Tweuty-seven cases of different diseases in which these embolia were found in various organs are given, and he calls attention to the part they play in the effects of frost-bite, burns, and complicated fractures. Such capillary embolia were found in the case of a patient (p. 41) suffering from phlegmasia dolens, who died suddenly from suffocation. If they do not cause death, the embolia of the pulmonary artery lead to the forma- tion of pulmonary infarctus, and these again give rise to abscesses. The infarctus always orginate in hsemorrhage resulting from rupture of the capillaries. On account of the anatomical disposition of the bronchial arteries in cases of capillary embolia in the aortic system, pulmonary symptoms are rarer, and cerebral ones more frequent, than when the embolia occur in the lesser circulation. They can be demonstrated in the smallest arterioles and capillaries of all the organs, and even in the synovial vessels. Feltz gives also his conclusions as to the relations existing between infarctus, abscesses, and capillary embolia in the liver and other organs ; reviews briefly the different theories of Virchow, Eichardson, &c, on the subject of coagulation, and considers that the so-called tubercles produced by inoculation are really capil- lary embolia. Very good plates of the naked-eye and microscopic appearances found in the experiments and cases related in the text are appended. Ponfick (' Virch. Arch.,' 1, 623) publishes a remarkable case of most extensive embolism from mitral endocarditis. There were haemorrhagic ppots in the dura mater and brain, throughout the whole of the alimen- tary canal, with hemorrhagic erosion in the stomach, in the endo- and