IMPERFORATE ANUS. 2 95 was the first to suggest this operation in cases of obstruction, he did not seem to have called attention to it as a means of relieving pain and irritation simply. " I know of no published case in which colotomy has been performed in Paris except to relieve obstruction." (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Jan. 1, p. 1870.) Mr. Couper showed a specimen of stricture of the rectum, from ovarian abscess, taken from a patient on whom he had performed colo- tomy. ('Path. Trans.,' xxi, p. 190.) Mr. Callender read notes of the case of a man, aet. 34, on whom he performed colotomy for the relief of cancer of the rectum. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iii, p. 36.) Qastrotomy.—Mr. Durham records a case of epithelioma of the oesophagus in which he performed gastrotomy, but without success. Eeference is made to seven other cases.* (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' xiv, p. 195.) A case is also recorded by Dr. Maury. ('Am. Journ. Med. Scien.,' April, 1870, p. 365.) Malformation of the oesophagus.—A very rare case of malformation of the oesophagus in an infant is related by Mr. Annandale, in the ' Edin. Med. Journal,' Jan. 1869, p. 598. The gullet terminated in a cul-de- sac above the bifurcation of the trachea. It again became pervious at the stomach and for some distance above it. The lower portion of the oesophagus opened, below the cul-de-sac, into the trachea. Eeferences are given to other cases more or less similar. Imperforate anus.—Mr. Christopher Heath narrated to the Clinical Society ('Trans.,' iii, p. 113) four cases of imperforate anus. The first and fourth (both males) were examples of an anal cul-de-sac, with termi- nation of the rectum about an inch from the surface. In both the bowel was reached, in the first being drawn down and stitched to the margin, but both children sank, and in the last case the peritoneum •was found to have been opened. In the second case there was a mere anal dimple. The bowel was reached after cutting through some very dense structure, but Mr. Heath was unable to draw it down to the skin. The child has thriven, and is now two years old. A bougie is passed occasionally, and there is no great tendency to contraction. The third case was in a female, thirteen months old. There was no anus, but a small opening into the vagina, through which faeces escaped with difficulty and in small quantity. An attempt had been made to estab- lish an anus in the proper situation soon after birth, but without any good result. The attempt was repeated, but failed in giving relief to the distension of the abdomen, and therefore the perinseum was divided and a free opening made into the rectum from the vagina. The child * Another case, not quoted, will be found in the 1 London Hosp. Reports,' 1866, p. 218, in which Mr. Curling made an opening into the stomach for carcinomatous stric- ture of the oesophagus. A table of nine cases will be found in the 2nd edition of vol. ii of ' Holmes's System' (Mr. Durham's article). Mr. Hutchinson has, quite recently opened the abdomen, in the middle line, successfully, in the case of a child suffering from intussusception.- -(Ed.)