HE PORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. GO Cholera. Fauvel (' Bull, de l'Acad. de Med.,' t. 34, p. 1247) contributes some notes by Pelikan on an epidemic of cholera at Kiew, in Eussia, in 1869. Towards the end of August several cases broke out among the gun- smiths, which up to the middle of October were looked upon as cases of sporadic cholera (Choi, nostras). From that time the disease took on an epidemic character, 115 cases being admitted into hospital between Oct. 17 and Dec. 11, 63 of them terminating fatally. Fifty-nine deaths occurred in the town, from the same disease, making up 112 in the space of two months. During the same month of November cholera appeared in several large towns in the neighbourhood of Kiew, as, for instance, 92 cases, with 45 deaths, at Orel; 21, with 17 deaths, at Eelchilza, a town higher up the Dnieper than Kiew ; and 9 cases with 3 deaths at Toula. Fauvel holds that these reappearances of the disease are never very severe, that they die out, that they never propagate themselves, or become the starting-point of epidemic invasion. Thin (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' xiv, p. 708), writing on cholera at Shanghai, asserts that it is by no means a new disease in China, but that its nature and treatment are discussed by the Chinese medical writers of the last century. In the epidemic of 1867 there were fifteen deaths from the disease ; in former years, when it appeared at one port in China, cases occurred at other points also, but in this year (1867) no case was heard of at any of the ports in connection with Shanghai, and as far as is known, the few cases occurring there were the only ones met with on the coast of China. In this epidemic, as in that of 1862, there was observed a special liability of new comers to contract the disease. The majority of the cases occurring under his notice were, according to him, attributable to chilling of the body, previously hot, or to indiscretion in eating and drinking. Milroy (' Lancet,' 1869, ii, 5^7) sketches briefly the rise and progress of cholera on the north-west coast of Africa, and goes back for its origin as far as the summer of 1865 ; at that time, after the memorable pre- valence of the disease at Mecca, the epidemic broke out in Egypt, and after the arrival of the pilgrims and other persons from Alexandria, manifested itself throughout the Levant and the Mediterranean ports, but did not spread to, or show any tendency to become epidemic on, the Barbary coast, though crowds returned there. The immunity of Tunis, in spite of the numbers arriving from Malta, into which place they were supposed to have introduced the pestilence, was striking ; the same was the case at Benghazi, and in Algeria; the disease, though repeatedly imported, never spreading among either the military or civil population. Throughout 1866 there was little, if any, cholera in Africa ; in 1867 it made its appearance in Tunis and Algeria, and in 1868 was noticed in Tetuan, Ceuta, and Tangiers, places which, in spite of the great amount of intercourse between them and the Spanish coast, had entirely escaped in 1865, when the disease was epidemic in Gibraltar. In the sprin"- and summer of 1868 it spread southwards as far as Mogador ; later in the year it broke out at St. Louis, in lat. 160, and is supposed to have spread inland along the Senegal river; in March, 1869, it was