55 INTERMITTENT FEVER. treatment with quinine. Its magical effect was noticed especially in cases of attack preceded by vomiting. Barraut and Jessier consider that the results prove that intermittent fevers are due to the presence in the blood of microscopic animal or vegetable ferments, like those discovered by Pasteur. Markey ('Lancet,' 1869, i, p. 671) does not speak favourably of the use of carbolic acid in ague; he gives, in full, four cases treated with the acid suspended in mucilage; five minims were given to ten conva- lescents from ague three times a day for six days; in three it had a slightly laxative effect; in two there was considerable irritability of stomach; in the remaining five there were no results. No change could be detected in the pulse, nor was the urine altered, either in colour or specific gravity. Leavitt (" Hyposulphite of Soda in the Treatment of Malarial Fever," 'Amer. Journ. of Med. Sei.,' 1869, lvii. p. 39), who had used this drug before, gives shortly sixteen more cases, from which he attempts to draw the conclusion that it is not efficacious in patients depressed and weakened by constitutional diseases and want of red blood, and that its perfect success in cases other than these is due to a naturally strong and robust frame which seizes " upon the interim furnished, as it were, by the arrest of fermentation for the time being, the recuperative powers being so great as to repel any further septic invasion of the blood." Little (ib., lix, p. 280) uses the hypo- and bi-sulphite of soda as a substitute for quinine in intermittent and remittent fevers in doses of 10—20 grains in a wineglass of water, every three or four hours ; the salt being slightly laxative, there is no need of purgatives. The bi-sul- phite is preferred. Harris (ib., Iviii, p. 588) gives a case, occurring in a lady of eighteen, of partial amaurosis, developed during the course of a long-continued in- termittent fever, disappearing under the use of quinine, and reappearing with each relapse. She was very anaemic, and presented serous infiltra- tion of the abdominal cavity and lower extremities. The ophthalmoscope showed slight congestion of the choroid of the right eye, and nothing abnormal in the left. AYillebrand (" Iod als Heilmittel gegen kalten Fieber," ' Virch. Arch.,' xlvii, s. 243), who had applied iodine internally in typhoid, and had further noticed its effect during a wide-spread epidemic of the same fever in 1868, gave it in cases of malarious fever, some of which, at the commencement, had all the symptoms of typhoid. He used the same mixture ("Iod gegen Typhus," 'Virch. Arch.,' xxxiii, p. 520), Iodine gr. vj; Potas3. Iod., gr. xij, in aqua? destill. 5j, giving five drops in a liqueur-glass of water every two hours (three drops to children aged four and two years, three to four to a child aged seven years). One of his colleagues gave, in several severe cases, ten to fifteen drops, and in one case twenty-five drops every two hours, without any ill conse- quences. Willebrand gives nineteen cases, in eighteen of which ho used his iodine solution, and in one iodide of iron (gr. j ter die to a child aged twelve years). Of these eighteen cases, some more severe than others, the affection was arrested almost always after the second, in two