ItKPORT ON SURGERY. 291. by a large orifice ; aud, thirdly, the bladder itself by a smaller one just sufficient to admit the finger." Mr. Bryant remarks, "There is very little room for doubt that the case was one, from the beginning, of simple ulceration of the lower bowel, for, at the end, no signs of ul- cerative disease existed beyond that furnished by the fistulous, vesical communication. That this ulceration of the bowel made its way into the bladder was clearly proved by the passage of flatus and fieces with the urine, per urethram, one year and a half after the first appearance of the disease, and, that the communication was indirect or valvular was indicated by the fact that no urine was ever observed to have made its way into the rectum. The benefit afforded to the patient by the operation of colotomy was immediate and striking, although its dura- tion was, for a time, interfered with by the formation of the fajcal abscess at the base of the bladder, and the relief which was given by a free incision through the perinaeum was rapid and effectual. The secondary communication of the small intestine with the bladder by ulceration, two mouths after the operation, was a point of special interest, but marring the full effect of the operation. Lastly, had not suppuration of the kidney existed, there is good reason for believing that life might have been indefinitely prolonged." This case tends to support the con- clusions of Mr. Holmes reported in the 'Med.-Chir. Trans.' (see last two vols, of * Eetrospect'). Mr. Bryant suggests that the ulceration in these cases has resemblance to that met with in the simple perforat- ing ulcers of the duodenum, &c. When the communication is with the large intestine, hard, faecal matter passes by the fistulous tract, and causes much greater agony than when the motions are fluid. In order effectually to close the fistulous, vesical communication in his case, Mr. Bryant proposed to the patient, after the escape of liquid ffeces from the small intestine, to lay the bladder and rectum into one, trusting that contraction would ensue, as after the recto-vesical operation for stone. Mr. Bryant advocates an oblique incision, as affording more room, following the direction of the nerves and of the fold of the integu- ment, thereby favouring repair. In three other cases it was found very advantageous. Colotomy.—Mr. Allingham describes and tabulates n cases; one patient lived for four years and a half; one four years, and is still alive and well (case of stricture and ulceration of the rectum). A third case has lived three years and is still well (probably syphilitic ulcera- tion). The longest period after operation for cancer of rectum, &c, was nineteen months. (' St. Thomas's Hospital Eeports ' 1870, p. 285.) Mr Curling describes a case of cancerous stricture of the rectum in which he performed lumbar colotomy. The patient was a man aged 48, and had suffered more or less for four years from symptoms of stric- ture, and obstruction had existed for twelve days. There was no special difficulty experienced in the operation, and great relief followed. For twelve montbs the man led "a very tolerable life," but he then began to get weaker, and sank at the end of seventeen months. Mr. Curling remarks, with reference to the question of performing colotomy for the relief of pain without obstruction being present, that though Amussat