REPORT ON SURGERY. matters into the abdominal cavity. It is a proceeding not only irra- tional, but also, opposed to the laws of prophylaxis against complication /. ±he reduction ot the intestine after division of the stricture is the sole cause of numerous fatalities. 8. It is not a proceeding of primary necessity. 9. The leaving of the intestinal coil in the wound does not bring after it any disastrous consequences. 10. The intestine should always be left, and the fourth stage of the operation should not be proceeded with. 11. This is not often done. 12. The non-reduction hastens the subsidence of strangulation symptoms. 13. It is a pro- phylactic against peritonitis. 14. It prevents extravasation ic It does not induce fatal gangrene of the gut left behind. 16. This is anew mode of operating, it is kelotomy without reduction. 17. Unlike the ordinary operation, it is one applicable to all cases, and has one single object and fixed rule. (' De la Kelotomie sans reduction, nouvelle Me- thode operatoire de la Hernie Etranglee,' Paris.) On the danger of returning damaged intestine, see the «Retrospect' ior 1865-6, where will be found an abstract of Mr. Hutchinson's paper on the " Causes of Death after Hernia Operations" in the 1 London Hospital Reports.' Dr. Heron Watson, in the ' Edin. Med. Journal,' July, i860, p. 12, narrates a case of strangulated, femoral hernia, in which per- foration of the intestine occurred. The gut had been strangulated seventy-two hours. He proceeded to operate, and on opening the sac and dividing the stricture found the intestine had given way. He at once picked up the portion of gut around the opening with a pair of forceps, and then tied a ligature round this. He brought the ends of the ligature out at the wound, and stitched the edges of the sac to the edges of the wound, to keep it thoroughly open. The ligature came away on the twentieth day, and in another month the patient was quite well. Some interesting remarks are made on points in connection with the subject of strangulated hernia. Gangrene of the abdominal wall after femoral herniotomy. The case of a man, sat. 42, is recorded, in which gangrene of the abdominal wall set in, and caused the death of the patient, after an operation for femoral hernia. No cause could be assigned. (' Graz. des Hon. ' No *ro 1869.) f> • /y. Fatty hernia.—Mr. Annandale writes on this subject. Prof. Turner met with several instances in the dissecting-room, and his notes are given of four cases. The author adds four more, two met with on dis- section and two in practice. Such cases group themselves under two heads:—1. Patty tumours, more or less circumscribed, having no con- nection with the peritoneum or subperitoneal fat; and 2, an increased development of the subperitoneal fat. The first of these, by no means common, is met with usually in the inguinal, scrotal, or labial regions. They simulate hernise, but are never attended by serious symptoms. The second occurs most frequently as a growth or development of fat in connection with a hernial sac, more or less adherent to it, and form- ing a covering to it, but not a complete one. More rarely, the fat forms a complete covering round the sac, the neck of which may or may not