3Z-Z RBPOBT ON SUUOKltY. four years. ' 3. The great number of points at which the lung tissue bad given way ; eight had been found on the surface beneath the pleura, whilst the most usual situation is near the root. 4. The small quantity of air found in the mediastina. 5. The immediate cause of death; probably found in the occurrence of a succession of injuries to a vital organ rather than in the interference with respiration by the pressure, upon the lungs, of the extravasated air. Treatment of carbuncles.—Mr. Paget, in a lecture on the subject in the ' Lancet,' January 16, 1869, advocates treatment without incisions. He asserts that as large a proportion of carbuncles will spread after in- cisions have been made into them, as in cases in which no cutting has been practised. Incision does not relieve pain as much as is generally asserted. If practised within the first four or live days, while they are still hard and brawny, it may relieve some measure of the suffering; at a later period the incisions have no influence at all. The cutting does not even hasten the removal of the sloughs and the process of healing. Time after time it may be seen that those uncut heal more quickly than those that have been cut. The plan of giving large quantities of food and of stimulants is decidedly hurtful. The best treatment is of a local kind. At first a piece of Emp. Plumbi, with a hole in the centre, then resin cerate on lint, covered over with a large poultice (half linseed, half bread) ; then, later, carefully washing of the sore with some deodorising substance. The importance of cleanliness cannot be over- rated, nor that of the free admission of Jresh air. The experience of twenty years (of about two hundred carbuncles) gives only four deaths ; two of these being from pyaemia. The disease called " carbuncular in- flammation of the lip," or "malignant pustule," sometimes, is neither the one nor the other. Carbuncle of the lip has the same course as elsewhere. This is a rapidly fatal affection, occurring in young adults without the history of contagion, met with in the " pustule," and not like the continental reports of it. It is unlike any other disease in England. Of fifteen cases which had come under observation, only one had recovered. Carbuncle of the face.—Mr. Thomas Smith writes on carbuncular in- flammation of the face (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iii, p. 63). He notes three fatal cases; discusses the relations between carbuncle and malignant pustule, giving the symptoms at length. As to treatment, after re- marking on the general fatality, he says, " It is almost certain, from the effects of similar treatment on malignant pustule, that the complete destruction by caustic potash, in an early stage, of the pimple, boil, or pustule that ushers in this disease, would at once obviate all risks of septicaemia. It is, however, no less certain that by the adoption of this plan a large number of patients would be needlessly subjected to a very painful and permanently disfiguring treatment. Indeed, such practice could not and ought not to be pursued. With regard to the administration of internal remedies, I know of only one that has been found efficacious, and that is quinine, given in such doses as to produce cinchonism, and for this information I am indebted to Mr. Paget,