POISONING. 467 aniline and an alcoholic solution of caustic soda, a powerful reaction takes place, especially on gently warming, and isonitrile is formed, which is readily recognised by its peculiarly characteristic odour. This reaction is so delicate that when one part of chloroform is mixed with from five to six thousand parts of alcohol the drug is readily detected. Hydrocyanic acid.—Mr. "Welborn* points out the fallacies connected with the use of Schonbein's test for prussic acid. The latter observer had shownf that paper imbued with tincture of guaiacum, and then just before use touched with a solution of sulphate of copper, immediately assumes a blue colour when exposed to the most minute trace of the vapour of prussic acid, and he proposed this reaction as a delicate test for the poison. Mr. Welborn shows that chlorine gas and the vapours of nitric acid botli impart a similar blue colour to the prepared paper. Conia.—ZalewskiJ adds to our knowledge regarding the means to be employed for detecting this alkaloid. His experiments were made under Dragendorff's supervision. The method successfully employed for the extraction of conia from organic solutions was to shake these, after making them alkaline, with petroleum ether (i.e- the more volatile portion of petroleum oils). The poison was then recognised by tests which do not appear to be new. Zalewski states that conia may be detected in the blood very readily after every trace has disappeared from the empty stomach, even when death has not supervened very early ; that the poison speedily appears in the urine, and is constantly present in that excretion during the course of the toxic symptoms. Indeed, the alkaloid is excreted nearly entirely through the kidneys, and it was detected in the urine of a dog two and a half days after the cessation of the administration of the poison. As conia was found in this secretion in quantity and in the liver, it was, perhaps, owing to its retention in that viscus that the alkaloid could be recognised in the urine on the third day after its administration. An instructive case of poisoning by hemlock, in which Prof. A. W. Hofmann supervised the chemical- analysis, is related.§ He was enabled to affirm the presence of some alkaloid from the following reactions, which, however, as he well observes, are not absolutely con- clusive as to the presence of conia. The fluids with which these re- actions were obtained were extracted from the contents of the intestinal canal by the methods of Duflos and Stas respectively. Their odour was penetrating, mousy, and suggestive of that of hemlock; their taste was acrid, and like that of tobacco. On causing a glass rod dipped in hydrochloric acid to approach, white clouds were formed from the vapours given off. A drop of the fluid treated with a solution of nitrate of silver yielded a white precipitate, and subsequently reduction of the silver to the metallic state. A solution of iodine gave a brownish precipitate, subsequently becoming bright yellow. The solutions sub- mitted to spontaneous evaporation with a little dilute hydrochloric acid furnished a mass of crystals, which, examined by means of polarized fight, exhibited a magnificent play of prismatic colours. The solutions * ' Pharm. Journ.,' x, p. 430. f Ibid.« x, p. 594. % ' Virchow and Hirsch's Jaliresber.,' 1869, i, p. 365. § ' Horn's Vierteljahraschr.,' xiii, p. 1.