339 ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Orleans,* describes how the circulation of the blood may be rendered entoptically visible. He closes one eye, and looks with the other through dark blue glass at a brightly illuminated surface, or a bright sky, and he then perceives certain white luminous currents and discs, apparently situated in different planes, which he ascribes to the motions of blood streams and corpuscles. I have not been able to verify these appearances by personal observation. Dr. H. Knapp,t while the anatomical studies of Schwalbe and Schmidt have shown us that exudation may travel along the inter- vaginal space of the double sheath of the optic nerve from the arachnoid to the lamina cribrosa, makes a further suggestion as to its progress into the interior of the eye. He thinks it percolates through the lamina cribrosa and spreads out into and around the head of the nerve. Finding extreme neuro-retinitis in two cases of brain disease, with very little damage to sight, he measured the size of Mariotte's blind spot, and found it increased in one patient two and a half times, in the other four times its proper size. To quote the words of the article : " This enlargement of Mariotte's blind spot can, to my mind, only be explained thus :—The exudation—fluid and white blood-corpuscles— travels from the arachnoidal cavity into the intervaginal space, oozes through the periphery of the lamina cribrosa, and expands into the soft tissues around the margin of the optic disc, the supra-choroid, choroid proper, and retina. The optic nerve-fibres of the latter, situated further from the origin of the exudation, will be attacked least and last. The rods and staves, however, the percipient layer of the retina, will be affected sooner, and have their function either destroyed or, in case of recovery, kept in abeyance. The enlargement of Mariotte's blind spot, which I found to correspond to the extent of the exudation visible with the ophthalmoscope, proves this conclusively. In addition I may strengthen this theory by the following facts. The rods and staves are delicate organs, and more easily destroyed than the nervous fibres. The exudation, seen through the ophthalmoscope, has its summit at the margin of the optic disc. Extending in both directions, between the fibres of the optic nerve entrance and into the choroid and retina, the most destructible parts it meets on its way are the rods and staves, the nutrition of which, moreover, is dependent rather on the choroid than on the retina. If the exudation passed through the optic nerve itself there would be, in consequence of a like pressure on all the nervous fibres, an equal diminution of visual acuteness over the whole field of vision. The anatomical study of specimens alone can fully explain this process. But since this has not yet been done, and specimens are exceedingly difficult to obtain, I thought it well to present my views on this subject before the members of this society, thereby calling their attention to it, in order that no opportunity may be lost, both with regard to the clinical observation and the anatomical investigation of neuro-retinitis." Dr. LaqueurJ has studied the occurrence of sudden changes in * ' Archives of Ophthalmology and Otology.' No. i. t 'Trans. Am. Oph. Soc.,' 1870, pp. 118—120. X 'Annates d'Oculistique,' 1869, i, p. 205.