33G KI'U'OKT ON SUKGE11Y. tension within the vessel. The atheroma forms lines lengthwise to the vessel's course; that is, across its transverse girth. Now, the longitu- dinal tension in the vessel's wall is not so great as the transverse, which is continuous, while the longitudinal is transient. The transverse strain tends to tear longitudinal rents, and, though this does not occur, yet irritation and weakness are produced. The author considers that he has substantiated the following points:—(r) That what is called atheroma of arteries is sub-inflammation of various degrees, of which the lower degrees end in fatty degeneration of the coats, along with the inflammatory products ; and (2) that the determining cause of the occurrence of this change is mechanical strain. This by no means in- terferes with any belief that a general altered nutrition—in gout, syphilis, &c.—may lay the coats of vessels more open to suffer from the said strain. In a case from which a specimen was obtained, which is figured, the patient had had syphilis some years before. ('Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' xvi, p. 431.) Perforations of the membrana tympani.—Having found other plans of treatment inefficacious, Mr. Hinton adopts the following:—"Having ascertained that the Eustachian tube is pervious, or, if it be not, having rendered it so by the appropriate means, if possible, and having first thoroughly cleansed the ear by syringing, during and after a free pas- sage of air through the tube, I fill with a warm solution of bicarbonate of soda (3j ad gj) a syringe, the nozzle of which is made large enough to close the orifice of the meatus, and is well guarded with india rubber, and with a moderate but continued pressure seek to pass the fluid through the perforation and the Eustachian tube. The head being slightly bent forwards, and the patient being told that he must breathe through the mouth, the fluid escapes through the nostrils without in- convenience." " By this means, in certainly the great majority of cases, either immediately, or after a few repetitions, large quantities of evi- dently old and more or less dense mucus are removed." Mr. Hinton believes that accumulation of mucus is a common occurrence in these cases ; he often removes large quantities repeatedly, and considers such removal an important, curative means. He repeats the washing-out two or three times a week. When it appears that the mucus is ap- proaching complete removal, five or ten grains of chlorate of potash arc added to the ounce of the solution; and when the removal appears complete, some astringent is substituted. (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' xvi, p. 241.)