REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. quent y a wearing through of the cyst-wall by partial pressure of the growths of a papillary cystoma. The dendritic cauliflower growths springing from any spot advance to the opposite part, and if large, cause perforation by pressure. They may then grow unhindered in the peri- toneal space, and sooner or later cause fatal peritonitis. There is no doubt that the so-called papilloma of the abdominal cavity described as arising there are perforated cystomata. Spiegelberg knows no other instance like the second here described. The most frequent cause of perforation of cysts is suppuration, but this seldom leads to opening into the peritoneum j mostly externally or into a neighbouring hollow organ. ('Arch. f. Gynakol.,' 1870.) 0. Spiegelberg relates a case in which echinococcus of the left kidney was mistaken for an ovarian cystoma. A deadened tympanitic sound was made out only above the anterior pelvic wall, as is often the case in ovarian tumour. At the operation both ovaries were found normal The cyst was divided throughout its length to facilitate removal : one half was traced up to the kidney; twenty-two vessels were tied ; death next day. Numerous echinococcus-scolices were found in the fluid. Spiegelberg regrets that exploratory tapping was not practised. (' Archiv f. Gynakol.,' 1870.) Prof. Waldeyer describee minutely his investigations into the epithe- lial ovarian tumours. These are chiefly represented by adenoma, cystoma, and carcinoma. The ovarian cystomas are of two kinds, myxoid and dermoid. He prefers the term myxoid cystoma to the more usual colloid systoma, because the contents are never pure colloid substance, and also in order to point out more clearly the relations of myxoid and dermoid tumours to each other and to the normal formations of the organism. "Whilst the inner surface of the dermoid cystoma shows the character of the outer skin invested with epidermis, the myxoma has exactly the aspect and bearing of a common glandular and vascular mucous mem- brane, ex. gr. of the mucous membrane of the stomach. This Waldeyer proceeds to prove even in detail. He describes the different forms of pedicle in reference to ovariotomy. Where the pedicle merges in the tumour he has sometimes found remains of ordinary ovarian structure ; in one case he found several old corpora lutea. ('Arch. f. Gynakol.,' 1870.) Dr. Bristowe relates an interesting case of a girl, set. 21, who died under abdominal disease. Scattered all over the parietal peritoneum were innumerable small nodules, some pedunculated, some sessile. A few small nodules were attached to the surface of the liver; there was a group in the neighbourhood of the left groin. There was, in addition, a large irregular tumour springing from the pelvis; this originated in the left ovary. There were two or three cancerous lumps in the sub- stance of the cervix uteri. An interesting feature consists in Dr. Bristowe's opinion that the cancerous growth belonged originally to the peritoneum, and that the ovarian tumour consisted of an originally cystic ovary, the parietes of which had become secondarily involved from its peritoneal connections. (' Pathological Transactions,' 1870.) Dr. Kidd relates a case of axial twisting of an ovarian tumour. Dur- ing life two tumours were felt, one of which, in the left hypochondriac