198 ItEPOKT ON SURGERY. vicinity to recover themselves quietly, instead of perishing under the irritating and poisoning influence of putrefaction; while any dead portions that may remain are ahsorhed more or less completely, like the extravasatcd hlood, and replaced by tissue of new formation." Next of erysipelas. " During the antiseptic period several cases have been admitted into my ward from without, but only one has originated in them. This occurred in a young man with disease of the foot, accompanied by sinuses extending into the leg. I performed amputa- tion at the ankle, but putrefaction continued in the sinuses ; and after the lapse of a considerable period erysipelas occurred in connection with them." He recovered, but subsequently had another attack at his own home, " implying that the tendency to it was rather in his own system than in the locality." Subsequently it was necessary to ampu- tate higher up. The stump healed well, but while he was trying what weight he could bear on the stump, a third attack of erysipelas occurred without the slightest sinus remaining. " This case seems interesting, as something intermediate—as it were a connecting link—between traumatic and idiopathic erysipelas." " Hospital gangrene was, for- merly, both frequent and severe amongst my patients." Since the introduction of the antiseptic system the contrast has been most striking. " For the first nine months we had not a single case of the disease° Since that time it has shown itself now and then, but in a mild form, invariably yielding to treatment, never occurring in recent cases, but only in old sores weakened by the influence of surrounding cicatrix." " I do not recollect more than one example of it during the last year." " In short, hospital gangrene, like pyaemia and erysipelas, may' be said to have been banished by the antiseptic system." " The emanations from sores are poured directly into the confined atmosphere in which the patients are, and any one familiar with the faint sickly smell commonly perceptible in surgical wards under ordinary treatment, and still more with the stench which prevails at the time of the daily dressing, will readily understand that putrid exhalations from the patients may be a source of mischief, compared with which the other circumstances alluded to (bodies buried under the hospital, &c), may be of comparatively trifling consequence." " Though granulating surfaces will commonly heal well enough under a putrid dressing (for such the cleanly water dressing becomes within a few hours of its application), every case so treated furnishes its quota to the vitiation of the general atmosphere of the ward. Hence, for the sake of the inmates generally, it is obviously desirable that healing sores should be dressed with some application which while permitting, or, if possible, favoring cicatrisation, should prevent odour. Fortius purpose some dressing unstimulating, but at the same time persistent m antiseptic action is requisite—a combination which I have sought in various dif- ferent' forms to obtain, and, of late more especially with very satis- factory results ; so that while the healing of superficial sores proceeded with greater rapidity than under the water dressing, all my sixty natients might sometimes be dressed without the odour of putrefaction being perceptible in one of them. The result of this great change has been such as to demonstrate conclusively that the exhalations from toul