SPONTANEOUS GENERATION. living matter. Of biogenesis, as opposed to abiogenesis or spontaneous evolution, there are, as he points out, two modes, viz. homogenesis, in which the living parent gives rise to offspring which passes through the same cycle of changes as itself, and heterogenesis or, more properly speaking, xenogenesis, in which the offspring is altogether and perma- nently unlike the parent. The number of apparent instances of the latter, however, is, with the progress of exact observation, daily dimi- nishing. The utmost that Prof. Huxley will admit is contained in the two following quotations :—" With organic chemistry, molecular physics and physiology yet in their infancy, and every day making prodigious strides, I think it would be the height of presumption for any man to Bay that the conditions under which matter assumes the properties we call' vital' may not some day be artificially brought together. All I feel justified in affirming is, that I see no reason for believing that the feat has been performed yet." And again, referring to the difficulty of the conception of the first occurrence of life on this earth, he re- marks that, "if it were given me to look beyond the abyss of geologi- cally recorded time to the still more remote period when the earth was passing through physical and chemical conditions, which it can no more see again than a man can recall his infancy, I should expect to be a wit- ness of the evolution of living protoplasm from non-living matter. I should expect to see it appear under forms of great simplicity, endowed like existing fungi with the power of determining the formation of new protoplasm from such matters as ammonium carbonates, oxalates and tartrates, and earthy phosphates and water, without the aid of life." From these opposed and contending views it is clear that no positive conclusions can be drawn in respect to the possibility of the immediate development of living beings from inorganic substances without the aid of pre-existing organisms; but it may be remarked, as an additional argument against it, that considering the wonderful variety of constitu- tion characterising animal and vegetable organism, it would seem in the highest degree improbable the combination of the elements—car- bon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen—should, under the various con- ditions under which the experiments are made, always result in the formation of the same types, as bacteria and vibrios. In the case of crystalline formation we have the same chemical compounds assuming definite and always identical forms, but here the result is nearly the same, whatever may be the nature and composition of the infusion employed. Other papers relating to spontaneous generation are—Edward rarhtt ( Monthly Microscopic Journal,' i86p,ii, p. 253) ; C. Staniland Wake (idem, p. 306); Metcalfe Johnson, "Jottings of a Student of Heterogeny ' (idem, 1870, iii, p. 25); Benj. Lowne (idem, 1870, iv, p. 320); Lionel Peale, ' On Protoplasm, or Life, Force, and Matter ;' Dr. Victor Meunier, " On two new Species of Aspergillus,' Aug. 21, i860; Lngelmann ' On the Periodical Evolution of Gas in the Protoplasm of Living Arcellze.'* Some interesting observations touching the influence of the occur- W,Vt9idi8-StlSC:h Archief''iv> 1868; abstract b7 Dr> Moore in ' Journal of Anatomy,'