468 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. yielded with platiuic chloride oily drops, from which, on standing for some time, red prismatic crystals separated. With tannin they gave a white precipitate, and palladic chloride gavo a brownish-red pre- cipitate. On the addition of sulphuric acid and chromate of potash butyric acid was given off. Veratria.—Masing* contributes a paper of some interest on the detection of veratria in fluids from, and the tissues of, the animal body. Strychnia.— G. A. Masing.f having made an extended series of ex- periments on the detection of this alkaloid in toxicological research, concludes—That the most important parts to be examined are the stomach and upper part of the small intestines, and that strychnia is less readily detected in tbe lacces and in the lower part of the intestinal canal. The liver is invariably the organ in which the poison collects most abundantly. The urine may be disregarded in all acute cases, for it invariably yielded negative results; but in chronic cases, as the alkaloid appears to be completely separated from the blood by means of the kidneys, it is possible in such cases to detect the poison in the iirine, and it must be remembered that this separation begins tolerably early, and is long before it is completed. In all cases the brain yields negative results. In opposition to Cloetta's experience^ Masing found that, although the alkaloid is separated from the blood very rapidly, it may be detected in that fluid in small but appreciable amount; it appears to be readily given up by the portal blood to the liver, to be again slowly transmitted to the general circulation; and that there is no proof of the combination of strychnine with the constituents of the blood, for it is manifest that should such combinations take place, they must be of a very loose nature, and the alkaloid would be readily separated from them. Further, that there is no proof whatsoever of the decomposition of strychnia by the living organism. Cloetta's different results may, Masing thinks, be accounted for by imperfections in the methods of analysis employed. Morphia.—Kauzmann§ recommends a modification of the method of Uslar and Erdmann for the extraction of this alkaloid from the viscera in cases of medico-legal investigation. He exhausts the substance to be investigated with water acidulated with sulphuric instead of hydro- chloric acid. The concentrated extract is shaken with ordinary alcohol, and, after filtration of the acid solution and expulsion of the excess of alcohol, is then only to be rendered alkaline and treated with amy lie alcohol. By this means the tedious and wasteful process of extracting the solution in amylic alcohol with acidulated water may be omitted. By repeated solutions and purifications the alkaloid was obtained in a pure state. Frohde's molybdic-acid test was found to be the most deli- cate; it furnished a distinct reaction with i-i2,oooth of a grain of morphia. Venom of serpents.— Dr. "Weir Mitchell,|| of Philadelphia, U.S.A., * 'Pharm. Zeitschr. f. Russ.,' vii, p. 657; ' Zeitschr. f. Analyt. Chera.,' 1869, p. 238. + Ibid., vii, p. 639; ibid., p. 234. % Zeitscbr. f. Analyt. Chem.,' 1869, p. 265. § ' Vircbow and Ilirscb's Jahresber.,' 1868, i, p. 362. || 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, i, p. 137.