REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 18:2 iuferieure ct des Canaux biliaires; Degeneration graisscusc du foie, des reins, et du pancreas; Ictere grave; rnort et autopsic," ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 562. Affections of the Peritoneum. Fayrer, " Local Peritonitis and Death resulting from a Kick in the Epigastrium," ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, ii, 3 ; Rees, 0., " Case of Chronic Ulcer of the Stomach leading to Cancerous Disease of the Peritoneum and Ascites, with Obstruction of Rectum by a sharp bend in its course," ib., i, 436; Althaus, " Idiopathic general Peritonitis in a Child; death on the third day; autopsy," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 1547; Bristowe, "Peritoneal Cancer," ib., ii, 144; Arnott, "Spindle-celled Sarcomatous Tumour in the Mesentery, with Syphilitic Tumours elsewhere," ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xx, 221; Wells, Spencer, "Fatty Tumour of Mesentery removed during Life," ib., xix, 243; Cooper Forster, " Fibro-fatty Tumour of the Abdomen, weighing 55 pounds," ib., 246 ; Gordon, "Fatal Peritonitis induced by a Worm," 'Lancet,' 1870, i, 191; Vallin, "De ['Inflam- mation periombilicale dans la Tuberculisation du Peritoine," ' Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1869, i, 558; Robert, " Peritonite tuberculeuse, Inflammation peri-ombilicale et Perfo- ration intestinale," 'Rec. de Mem. de Med. Milit.,' xxiii, 419; Scherenberg, "Enorme Eehinococcus des Netzes " (in the great omentum of a woman, aet. 23, apparently not above a year's growth; she was tapped for ovarian tumour, and died nearly seven weeks later from exhaustion), " Virch. Arch.,' xlvi, 392 ; Demarquay, " Arret du Testicule droit dans le Canal inguinal, oii il reste fixe par une bride epiploi'que derriere laquelle une anse intestinale est venue s'etrangler, d'oii peritonite et mort," 'Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 351; Mollicre, "Observation de Peritonite consecutive a une Injection vaginale," 'Lyon Med.,' 1869, i, 253. Eeincke ('Virch. Arch.,' Ii, 391) publishes two fatal cases of abdo- minal cancer in which paracentesis was employed. In both there was primary disease of the ovaries, with secondary affection of the perito- neum and mesenteric glands. The new growths were separated from the peritoneum by a margin of healthy tissue. He considers that there was here simple extension of the mischief in the track of the trocar, a direct proof that the infecting elements may be conveyed to a given place. This would decide experiments on the conveyance of infection to parts of the body removed from one another, and contagion from one individual to another. He looks forward to farther opportunities for observations of the same kind. Barck (' Deut. Arch.,' vii, 614) gives a case of an echinococcus-cyst occurring in the abdominal wall in a girl, set. 23. The cyst suppurated and opened spontaneously; the opening was enlarged, and the cyst removed later. Other brood-cells, which had probably escaped during the operation, came away for several days afterwards from the wound. r. Diseases of the Kidneys. Leube (" TJeber den Antagonismus zwischen Harn- und Schweiss- secretion und dessen therapeutische JBedeutung," 'Deut. Arch.,' vii, 1) attempts to place the long-acknowledged and practical value of energetic diaphoresis in chronic kidney diseases, upon a physiological basis. He proves from experiments that on the days on which sweat- in<* was artificially caused by baths the excretion of urea by the kidneys was diminished, but its deficiency there almost covered by its increased amount in the sweat. He argues that, consequently, by forwarding the function of the skin, a vicarious organ may be used to lighten that of an