318 REPORT ON SURGERY. The causes of death are stated to be—progressive failure of power, as front lead poisoning; repeated haemorrhages from eroded vessels \ the cntranceof air into eroded veins; the opening of large joints ; the formation of extensive bed-sores, which tend to become gangrenous; diarrhoea from the effects of the poison; extensive disorganization round the wound; gangrene of internal organs; invasion of organs essential to life by the gangrene ; pyaemia ; phlebitis ; and various con- stitutional and local sequela?. Dr. Jones urges the importance of treating the wounded near to the scene of action. Cleanliness, free ventilation, and the use of disinfectants, are insisted on. Tonics should be given internally; locally, strong nitric acid should be freely applied, so as to destroy the surface, and the slough should be dissected off. Perforating ulcer of the foot.—In the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' June 26, 1869, Mr. Hancock publishes some " Remarks on Perforating Ulcer of the Foot." A young man, of twenty-four, was attacked, twenty years before he came under care, with swelling and inflammation of the great toe of his right foot. After some time an opening formed on the under surface of the metatarso-phalangeal joint, which continued to discharge, and a peculiar excrescence formed found the opening and gradually increased, but gave him so little pain that he was able to go to school and move about his father's farm with little inconvenience, although there was always more or less discharge. In the course of the next five years a similar sore appeared in connection with the little toe. Five years afterwards the disease attacked the sole of the foot near the tarsal bones. For eighteen years he was able to walk about, but, for the two years before he came under care, this had been prevented by acute pain in the ankle and heel. When seen, the foot was swollen and somewhat distorted, the soft parts presenting a brawny hardness ; the great toe was enlarged and misshapen, and there were various ulcerated openings, discharging offensive matter, at the situations already indicated, as well as on the dorsum of the foot. The foot was removed by Pirogoffs amputation. The notes of three other cases were sent by Mr. Wilkes, of Salisbury. A man aged thirty-nine had suffered for twenty years. The first symptom was a painful corn under the ball of the great toe. Ultimately the metatarsal bones of both feet became affected, but the right much more so than the left. Pieces of bone came away. His mother and two sisters had suffered in a similar manner. Syme's amputation of one foot was performed. A gardener, aged twenty-one, had had disease of both feet for three years. It commenced as hard corns under the metatarso-phalangeal joints of the great toes. The third case was a male cousin of the preceding, and twenty years of age. Both feet had been affected for four months. The father of the former patient had suffered from a weeping corn under one of his great toes for four or five years before he died of con- sumption at the age of forty. The brother of the last patient had bad feet for years, with discharging corns and diseased bones. He became quite crippled. " This peculiar and serious affection has scarcely been noticed in