26 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. careful inquiry into the sense of locality possessed by the skin of the upper extremity, and the results they obtained have been employed by M. Vierordt to demonstrate the truth of his hypothesis made in Pfliiger's ' Archiv,' that the delicacy of the sense of space stands in relation to the mobility of the part. Dr. Badcliffe* has published his researches on animal electricity, chiefly bearing on ne,rve and muscle current, and showing that they may, to a great extent, be regarded as phenomena due to tension. EESPIEATION. ANIMAL HEAT. M. Paul Bertf corroborates the statements of Traube, Bernard, and Schiff, that the respiration may be arrested by strong irritation of the pneumogastric or laryngeal nerves, or of those distributed to the Schneiderian mucous membrane, though he does not find with Schiff that irritation of the sensory nerves checks it. The arrest is much more easily obtained during expiration than during inspiration. He has alsoj convinced himself that the lungs contract under the influence of the vagi. His great work on Bespiration contains a full account of all that is known upon the subject, with the results of much original investiga- tion. Dr. Bansome§ has constructed an ingenious instrument for ascertaining the extent of the movements of the chest, and shows that in ordinary breathing in adults these are ver}r small and irregular, the usual dress constituting a marked impediment to their freedom. Their extent varies greatly with age, and the upward movement exceeds the forward. L. Bergeon|| maintains that the inspiratory bruit is heard in the thorax, but not in the trachea, whilst the expiratory bruit is chiefly audible in the trachea, a little below the glottis. He explains the latter as originating in the striking of the air against the basis of the epiglottis and the upper vocal cords. Similar conditions for the production of sound exist in the vascular system when there is insuffi- ciency of the aortic valves, and hence these sounds closely resemble the expiratory. The results of Beinhardt's experiments % give a much lower figure for the amount of carbonic acid eliminated by the skin than is generally admitted. Taking the total quantity excreted per diem by the lungs and skin at 909 grammes when at rest, the proportion of CO„ eliminated by the skin to that of the lungs is as 1 : 400. In regard to the water, on the other hand, the total quantity being estimated at 600 grammes, the proportion excreted by the skin is, to that by the lungs, as 2 : 1. He observes, however, that the quantity of carbonic acid eliminated by the skin may, under certain circumstances, be doubled, whilst that dis- charged by the lungs never varies to this extent. Different parts of * 'Proceed. Roy. Soc.,' 1869, xvii, p. 577. t 'Archives de Physiologie,' 1869, ii, p. 179 and 322. + 'Comptes Rendus,' 1869, lxix, No. 8. § 'Journal of Anatomy/ iv, 1870, p. 140. || 'Comptes Rcndus,' lxviii, p. 431. 'Zoitschrift fur Biologic,' v, p. 28.