257 PERINEAL SECTION. doininal uretral fistula remained for which Prof. Simon performed nephrotomy in Aug. 1869. The peritoneum was not incised. The patient left her bed in six weeks. The ligatures of the pedicle did not come away for six months ; but at that time the wound thoroughly healed. (' Ediu. Med. Journ.,' May, 1870.) A case in which Mr. Bryant made an incision in the loin, exposed the kidney, and then incised it, is noted in the ' Lancet,' July 2, Aug. 27, 1S70. Mr. Annandale slit up a sinus in the loin, and removed a calculus weighing seventy-two grains. Patient recovered. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' xv, p. 21.) Radical cure of hydrocele by seton.—Mr. H. Smith writes on this point 0 Med. Times and G-az.,' Nov. 5, 1870.; He passes a seton through the tumour and allows the fluid slowly to drain away. The plan is useful for out-patients. Mr. Holthouse relates a case of inguinal hydrocele in a man, set. 48, which possessed additional interest from being accompanied by symp- toms mistaken for those of hernia. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iii, p. 109.) Phymosis.—Dr. Cruise employs sudden dilatation of the prepuce by means of forceps, in the treatment of phymosis. Figures of the forceps are given. (' Dub. Quart. Journ.,' Nov., 1869.) Perineal section.—Mr. Wheelhouse writes on this subject. He re- commends that a grooved staff instead of a catheter should be used, as easier to cut on; that the knife Bhould be entered in the perineum with its back to the rectum, and the urethra exposed by a cut upwards. An in- cision should then be made into the urethra in front of the point of the staff, not on it. This having been done, the edges of the urethra should be held open and the staff turned so that its point projects from the wound, thus helping to steady the urethra. The roof of the urethra ought now to be quite evident, and a small grooved director can be passed through the strictured portion, with a few touches of the knife to help. Having reached the dilated part of the urethra, the director can then be passed on into the bladder, and, if necessary, a blunt bistoury can be passed along the groove and the urethra enlarged for a short distance. A catheter ought now to slip along the groove of the director. Mr. Teale's " probe dilator" is very useful for insuring a broad, metallic floor for the introduction of a large catheter. (' Brit. Med. Journ ' Peb. 5, 1870.) In all cases of urinary fistula, or of lithotomy, or in any case in which there is an abnormal outlet for the urine, Mr. Heslop advocates the use of a catheter with a long india-rubber tube attached so as to insure the constant outflow of urine. He urges that putting a plug into the catheter always allows of a certain amount of dilatation of a fistula by the accumulation of urine. After lithotomy he immediately inserts a catheter with tube, and, thus, gets rapid union of the wound, not a drop of urine passing through it from the time of the operation, (' Brit. Med. Journal,' June 19, 1869.) 17