EXCISIONS OF JOINTS. 217 into the diseased mass." Mr. Pollock thinks it better to leave a portion of the acromion or the whole of it, and also the coracoid process, unless diseased. If a portion only of the scapula be removed it should only be the lower portion, as the haemorrhage is greater than when the whole is removed. " In making incisions for the removal of a very large tumour here or elsewhere, the surgeon may economise blood by taking the following precautions :—In the first place, the incisions should not be larger than he requires for the time." " More skin than requisite should not be saved for the flaps." That which is not required should be left attached to the tumour. Lastly, the tumour itself should not be cut into. ('St. George's Hosp. Rep.,' iv, p. 223.) Dr. M. Schuppert records ('New Orleans Journ. of Medicine,' Jan. 1S70) a case of tumour of the scapula in which he removed the whole bone, except the tip of the acromion, which was sawn through. The growth was osteo-enchondromatous. The patient re- covered well, and, it is said, could "lift a weight of thirty pounds and throw it a fair distance." (' Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,' April, 1870, p. 578.) Excisions of joints.—In the 'Medico-Chir. Trans.,' vol. lii, p. r, are narrated three cases of excision of the hip, followed by recovery and more or less usefulness of the limb, under the care of Mr. Lee; twelve cases of excision of the knee in children or young adults, 10 patients recovered and 2 died; one case of excision of the shoulder in an adult male, followed by recovery; and two cases of excision of the wrist. In the same volume (p. 13) Dr. Humphrey records the results of 39 cases of excision of the knee. In 28 cases, recovery followed; in 2, death; in 9, amputation was resorted to secondarily, and of these, 5 re- covered and 4 died. In a foot-note six other cases are added, with five recoveries and one under treatment, making a total of 45, with 33 recoveries. Mr. Gant has communicated a series of cases of excisions of knee, hip, and elbow to the Med. and Chir. Soc.; of twenty operations, not one had terminated fatally. ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' &c., May 28, 1870.) Dr. Cheever narrates 28 cases of excisions of the larger joints, with a mortality of 43 per cent. Of the elbow there were 10 cases ; 4 for disease (1 amputated, 3 successful), 6 traumatic (2 died, 1 after amputa- tion; 4 recovered, 2 successful and 2 amputated). Of the hip there were 11 cases (7 recovered and 4 died); 9 of them were in children, with 2 deaths (from tubercular meningitis and tubercle), 5 walk well, 1 walks with crutches, and 1 is still in T)ed. Of the knee there were 6 cases, all for disease. Two were amputated, 1 died, 3 recovered with more or less useful limbs. Three were children and 3 adults. Of the former, 2 recovered without amputation, and 1 of the latter. A table of the cases is given, and several illustrations. (' Boston City Hospital Reports,' 1870, pp. 71—107.) Besection of the ribs.—la the ' Gazette Medicale de Paris,' Nos. 3