APHASIA. the cortical grey matter of the hemispheres, while in aphasia there is a lesion of the afferent or efferent fibres, or both, in some part of their course between the cortical grey matter and corpus striatum, or in the latter itself. In vols, xiv and xv of the ' Journal of Mental Science,' will be found the very long continuation* of Bateman's paper " On Aphasia or Loss of Speech in Cerebral Diseases," in which he discusses the researches and opinions of the principal physiologists in different parts of the world, and gives minute notes of the clinical history, with four autop- sies, of cases observed by himself. He declares that, in spite of all that has been written iu reference to the localisation of speech, the question must still be considered suhjudice, and that an impartial sifting of the evidence he has collected leads him to the conclusion that something may be said for each of the popular theories, but none will bear the test of disinterested and impartial scrutiny, and that he considers it bv no means proved that there is a cerebral centre for speech at all. Sander ('Archiv f. Psychiatrie,' ii, 38) publishes fifteen cases of aphasia, with five autopsies, and gives the results of his and Griesinger's observations upon them. There was more or less marked right hemi- plegia in all, in several certainly confined to the right facial nerve only. From these autopsies they think they may conclude this much only— that aphasia exists whenever the convolutions of the left island of Eeil, lying in the depth of the Sylvian fissure, consequently the gyri radiati' and the part of the central lobe lying nearest them, and especially the outer capsule (capsula externa), and the most peripheral portions of the lenticular nucleus are affected in any way whatever. In the majority of cases the lesion depends upon embolism of the left artery of the Sylvian fissure, and as the anterior branch of this vessel supplies the posterior portion of the third frontal convolution, the latter is gene- rally affected as well. In two, however, of the cases examined the original lesion was found in the left parietal lobe, in some of the bun- dles of the fibres radiating from the corpus callosum; and in one only had a secondary degeneration (nuclear proliferation) advanced as far as the island. These two patients were certainly weaker in intellect than is generally the case with aphasics, and the aphasia had made its ap- pearance, not at once, but gradually in the course of several weeks. The convolutions of the island belong to the central lobe, in which we look only for motor and sensitive centres, while the fibres radiating from the corpus callosum consist exclusively of cerebral fibres, and probablv subserve the higher mental functions. • AUvU? (Te^ TimeS and Gaz"' l869> i> 49-0 gives three cases mf n \-Tf! W&? ? nfent- 0ne in a man immediately after a fall on his left temple, followed at a later period by epileptiform fits decided paralysis of the right arm, and some weakness of the right leg- the second m a female, ait. 50, who for two years had suffered from epi- leptiform convulsions, said to be bilateral; her speech was much affected after the attacks : she tried to speak, and "had a mental vision of the words, but could not speak them ; in about two hours after, her speech gradually returned. The third case occurred in a man, a3t. 30, subject * Cf. last Biennial Report.