388 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. uterus should first be cleared of discharges by syringe. A source of danger is obstruction to the return current by coagula. To obviate this a double-current canula is necessary. Dr. Barker preferred the sulphate of zinc in the metrorrhagia of the climacteric period. He employs a paste made of one ounce of sulphate with two drachms of glycerine, three to five grains of which is introduced through a canula. Dr. Peaslee thought intra-uterine injections should be very rarely used; he found iodine, persulphate of iron, and saturated solutions of tanuin or alum, safe and effectual. Dr. Emmet spoke highly of chromic acid, saying that, diluted with an equal weight of water, it was no stronger than nitrate of silver, and did not, like this, harden the tissues. Dr. Kammerer found that flexions of the uterus often caused the retention of fluids in the cavity, and that the proper course was to keep the os internum freely open. Dr. Byrne had abandoned the use of caustic substances, and now employed mild substances, as sulphate of soda, sulphurous acid, tannin, &c.; he had become convinced that in all cases of troublesome intra-uterine affection there was some constitutional dyscrasia which must be treated. Dr. Thomas stated impressively that " intra-uterine injections do not constitute an advance iu the treatment of uterine disease; that they have done and are going to do a great deal of harm." On intra-uterine injections.—Dr. Guichard in a thesis (1870) em- bodying the views of M. Gallard, passes under review the history of injections into the uterus. His conclusions, based partly on experiments, partly on clinical facts, are—1. On the dead subject, injections made into the vagina do not pass into the cervix uteri. 2. Injections made into the cervix pass into the body of the uterus; he points to the soft state of the organs experimented on, and asks if same result would occur in living. 3. Alp. Guerin, Fontaine, and Guichard prove that the most powerful aspiration fails to draw liquids from uterus into tubes, or from tubes into uterus. 4. In non-puerperal uterus Gruichard has never seen air or liquid pass into uterine vessels. After labour, Fontaine saw liquid pass easily by the sinuses. But, says Guichard, in the dead the muscular rings are relaxed. (So they may be in the living in cases of great exhaustion.—B. B.) 5. After labour, Fontaine found liquids passed along Fallopian tubes, and in inverse direction. Finally, Guichard denies that liquids can run by the tubes into peritoneum iu the living subject. (There are, however, several positive observations to the contrary.—B. B.) Guichard says the first to make intra-uterine injections was Becolin, who published his experience in the ' Mem. de l'Acad. de Chir.,' 1750. (He is, of course, unaware that Harvey prac- tised the same thing. See Harvey's works.—B. B.) On some of the dangers attending tangle-tents.—Dr. L. Aitkcn contributes a useful paper on some of the accidents attending the use of tangle-tents. Several times he has known pelvic peritonitis follow. In one case a tolerably thick tent was passed into the cervix without difficulty, and removed at night. Next day the patient complained of pain ; pulse 120; swelling found on both sides of the uterus, filling up the pelvis. Becovery. He relates a case in which a tent was applied on account of profuse haemorrhage, probably from abortion; a retro-