REPORT ON l'R.VCTICAL MEDICINE. to suggest three primary divisions : I. Aphasia, the capability of thinking, but not of writing or speaking. II. Aphemia, the capability of thinking and writing, but not of speaking. III. Agraphia, the capability of thinking and speaking, but not of writing. Aphasia is far more frequent than either of the other two, and may or may not be accompanied by hemiplegia and dementia. Sometimes the patients cannot utter a sound, or only mutter inarticulately, or con- stantly repeat some meaningless sound or sounds, or use some single word, or even mere sounds, or employ habitually some short phrase, or three or four meaningless words or expressions in a constant and definite manner. Generally they are unable to repeat the simplest sound, though in some cases they are able to do so, and in others pre- sent a remarkable power of mimicry: many are able to utter additional words under the influence of some strong emotion (swearing, &c.); as a rule, they cannot read aloud. As far as the power of expressing them- selves in writing is concerned, some make mere meaningless strokes, others can form separate letters, but cannot combine them suitably; others can write their own name, or some other familiar word, without a copy; and others can write the first syllable of a polysyllabic word, or the first word of a sentence, dictated to them, the rest being all con- fusion ; very many can copy words written before them far more easily than they can repeat one uttered in their hearing. Bastian recognises, and illustrates with cases, four groups of aphasia, (i). In the very severe cases, the amount of mental impairment is very great, and is generally associated with recent hemiplegia. (2). In the severe, there is emotional weakness, with proneness to shed tears, to immoderate laughter, or to sudden transitions from one to the other. (3). The typical cases include patients who can think, but cannot speak or write. (4). The less severe cases are connected with the last by others of all intermediate degrees of severity. In the slighter the patient can speak more words, imitate and repeat sounds to a certain extent, and express himself to a limited degree in writing. The examples of aphemia are very rare and very remarkable. Bastian quotes a case from Trousseau, another from Osborn ('Dub. Journ. of Med. and Chem. Sci.,' iv, 157), and a third from Bouillaud. In all there was an absence of hemiplegia, and in the first two the mental faculties appeared to be unimpaired. In the first there was no power of articulating; in the second a choreic and jargon-like speech ; and in the third the words were spoken without connection, as in amnesia, Cases of agraphia are also very rare. Two are quoted from Hugh- lings Jackson ('Loud. Hosp. Eep.,' i, 43ȥ and 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1866), and a third from Ogle (' St. George's Hosp. Rep.,' 1867, p. 103). A fourth is given by the author. The first and third occurred m pa- tients with right hemiplegia; the second in one who had been subject to epileptiform convulsions, affecting the right half of the body ; the fourth suffered from dementia and most remarkable agraphic symptoms of an amnesic variety, without paralysis or epileptiform convulsions. After reviewing the writings of different authors on the subject, he gives his own views as to the physiological meaning of the different phenomena, considering that, in amnesia, there are principally delects ot