REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. 486 Mr. Charles Bullock,* of Pennsylvania, having completely worked out the chemistry of veratrum viride, Dr. Horatio C. "Wood,t jun., has in- vestigated physiologically the action of the two alkaloids, one soluble, the other insoluble in ether, contained in that plant. These it is pro- posed to name in the forthcoming edition of the ' United States Dis- pensatory ' viridia and veratroidia respectively, and the actions of these alkaloids were compared with those of the veratria of commerce. The results obtained as to the physiological action of viridia are summed up as follows :—i. It appears to be but very slightly, if at all, locally irritant. 2. It has no action whatever upon the alimentary canal, never producing either vomiting or purging. 3. It exerts no direct in- fluence upon the brain, and the pupil is not affected by it, except it be an indirect dilatation just before death. 4. It is a spinal motor de- pressant (probably directly so), producing death by paralysis of the respiratory nerve centres, and is without action on the muscles or nerves. 5. It is a direct depressant of the circulation, lowering the force and rapidity of the blood streams, slowing the action of the heart, and finally affecting the force of the single beat independently of any spinal action it may exert. Veratroidia appears to be physiologically as well as chemically in many respects midway between viridia and veratria ; locally it is more irritant than the former, less so than the latter. It possesses some- what similar powers to the former on the heart, although to a less extent, and seems midway between the two alkaloids in its action on the nervous system and muscles, acting chiefly on the spinal centres, but appearing at the same time to impair the conducting power of the nerves and the irritability of the muscles. Its influence on the animal may be summed up as follows :—1. Locally, it is somewhat irritant. 2. It is an irritant emetic, and is sometimes cathartic. 3. It exerts no direct influence upon the brain or upon the pupil. 4. It is a direct spinal motor depressant, producing death by asphyxia, and acting at the same time to some extent upon the conducting nerves and the muscles. 5. It depresses the heart's action both in force and frequency, but the period of depression is followed by one of reaction, its primary cardiac action being independent of its spinal influence. Previously it had been shown that the so-called resin of veratrum viride has the power of depressing the pulse, but it had been freely conjectured that this resin was really a complex body, containing a dis- tinct alkaloid. This is now known to be the case. After the alkaloid is entirely removed from the resinoid mass there remains, however, a dark substance soluble in alcohol, which appears to be the pure resin of the plant. Experiments showed that this resin has no effect upon the circulation; that it is inert so far as the medical virtues of the plant are concerned; that it has some local action upon the stomach, pro- ducing gastric disturbance in the human stomach and violent vomiting in pigeons. The author thinks it more than probable that it is the resin which produces the distressing vomiting often seen when the fluid extract or tincture of veratrum viride has been taken. * 'Proc. Amer. Pharm. Assoc.,' 1867. f ' Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc.,' lix, p. 36.