EXCISION OF ANK.LB. 211 Nov. 6, 1869, records the case of a gentleman who was thrown out of a " buggy" in Canada. He was not seen till three weeks afterwards. It was found that he had sustained a compound dis- location of the ankle, which remained uureduced. Some necrosed bone was removed, and the displacement reduced. After another fortnight it was certain there was more diseased bone. In about two months from the accident the removal of tbe bones was determined on. A long incision was made on the inner side. An enormous amount of disease of the bones was detected. A transverse incision outwards from the other, for almost an inch, was made. "With a tenotome, keeping close to the bones, they were removed, one after another, with the help of bone forceps. The greater part of the sca- phoid, half of the os calcis, the whole of the astragalus, and the lower end of the tibia, with the malleoli, were taken away. In two months the patient could walk with the aid of a stick. At the end of eighteen months he was seen again, and was able to walk "exceed- ingly well without help, wearing a peculiarly constructed boot of his own invention." The ankle was strong and admitted of a consider- able amount of motion. A woodcut of the ankle at this time is given. Excision of the ankle.—Mr. Holmes ('St. Geo. Hosp. Rep.,' iv, p. 239) remarks on the rarity with which the operation of ex- cision of the ankle-joint is performed, and on the want of success attending it, as compared with the number of cases in which parts of the tarsal bones, together with the articular ends of the tibia and fibula, have been removed successfully. He narrates a case with the twofold object of showing that the operation is a justifiable one in appropriate cases, yielding results very far superior to Syme's or Pirogoff's amputation, which is the alternative usually suggested; and secondly, to call attention to the propriety of removing the whole astragalus when the disease in that bone is extensive. The patient was a country lad, set. 18. The disease had followed a sprain two years before. Two lateral incisions were made, one behind either malleolus. Care was taken not to wound either of the tendons. The whole astragalus and the lower ends of the tibia and fibula were removed. "Woodcuts are given of the condition of the bones. The wounds healed well. In seven weeks the lad left his bed. When sent out, the wounds were healed, he could walk well with a stick, the toes moved freely, and there was some little passive motion at the seat of operation. There was about two inches shortening. There is no note later than about four months. Mr. Holmes says, " On the first of the two points above stated, I think it will be conceded that the result which followed in this case is better than that of an amputation. This is not, indeed, of itself conclusive as to the propriety of the course pursued, for an accidental success may be obtained by an operation which would not generally be advisable. But it seems to me that in cases like the present the operation of excision would usually succeed, and that the reason why excisions of the ankle are not generally successful is, that they are done on a different class of cases. In the present instance the patient was a perfectly healthy lad ; the disease obviously of recent traumatic origin,