11EPOET ON MIDW1FJSKX, ETC. 380 ing the character of the secretions. This is done by cleansing and disinfecting injections. The paper concludes with a table exhibiting the chief features of 48 cases in which an ovarian cyst has been tapped by the vagina. Fifty- five operations were performed upon 48 patients ; 34 were unsuccessful. The disease returned in 3 ; result undecided in 4. Death occurred in 14 cases; in one from haemorrhage, 4 from peritonitis, 7 from sep- ticaemia, 1 from typhoid, 1 from an attack of peritonitis not caused by the operation. ('Amer. Journ. of Obstet.,' 1869.) Dermoid cysts.—Prof. G-luge relates ('Presse Med.,' 1870) a case from the practice of Dr. Gregoire, in which a dermoid cyst was spon- taneously expelled from the urethra. The patient, set. 30, had com- plained of retention of urine. A cyst, with some little bones and hair, came from the urethra. There were signs of inflammation of the bladder, but the woman recovered. Dr. Fuller relates a case in which hair and cheesy matter were passed by the urethra. It occurred in a lady, set. 50, who had two children grown up. A vaginal tumour was present. Under firm pressure this tumour was evacuated, aud the tumour was felt empty. Next morning there was much pain and retention of urine. The urine was loaded with pus, and contained numerous fragments of yellowish-white cheesy matter and masses of hair, perfect, with bulbs attached. The tumour again filled rapidly, and was voided again by pressure. This was re- peated several times. It appears that a dermoid cyst had ruptured at the time of a fall when hunting some years before, and that a commu- nication was made with the bladder. ('Pathological Transactions,' 1870.) Dropsy of the Fallopian tube.—Dr. Peaslee relates an interesting case of dropsy of the Fallopian tube. The patient had been tapped twice for ovarian dropsy. After death there was found 011 the right a true ovarian cyst, and on the left a tumour of the Fallopian tube, of very large size. The tumour had become occluded at the very com- mencement of the uterus ; accumulation took place beyond, until the tube itself was distended into a sac, with the capacity of eighteen pounds. The whole was adherent to everything in its neighbourhood. ('New York Med. Journ.,' 1870.) < Dr. Golding relates a case of puerperal mania associated with abscess of the left ovary. A healthy young woman was confined naturally of her third child, and went on well until the fifth day, when pain set in in the upper part of the left thigh. There was no hereditary maniacal tendency. Lochia ceased, milk arrested, sleepless, restless, pulse weak, 80. On the sixth day exquisite tenderness occurred over the lower part of the abdomen, and she became furiously delirious. This sub- sided into melancholy. All the time uterine tenderness persisted; leeches calomel, and opium were used. In the fourth week, when the formation of matter in the left ovary (iliac fossa ?) was clear, an open- ing was made, and an immense quantity of pus was discharged which continued for some time. Her illusions gradually left her, and she quite recovered Dr. Golding cites three cases from West ot inflammation of the ovary in connection with disordered mind, and one iroin Mont-