272 REPORT ON SURGERY. found in cases of caries of the shoulder may be regarded as the result of the disease in the lungs, and as, therefore, having a far less direct con- nection with the disease in the bones than that which attends caries of the pelvis and lower limbs. It is known that cases not unfrequently occur in which grey tubercle, apparently the result of contagion, is found in the immediate neigh- bourhood of cheesy deposits; on the other hand, cheesy deposits are found around carious joints, which may possibly be explained in the same way as the results of inoculation in animals. Thus, in one case of coxalgia with dislocation, there were deposits of red tubercle in the muscles and tendons of the thigh ; and, in another, of caries of the elbow, tubercle was deposited in the muscles near the joint. In cases of disease of the knee and ankle, it is difficult to explain the occurrence of deposits in internal organs by the theory of conveyance through the ly mphatics; for, while these joints are farthest removed from the lungs, caries of them is attended with tuberculous deposit nearly as frequently as caries of the spine or of the elbow. In the case of the foot, the infection must be transmitted through the medium of the in- guinal and pelvic lymphatic glands. The occurrence of cheesy deposits in combination with caries, with- out any trace of true tubercle, is rare. Much more rare is the com- bination of miliary tubercle with caries, without cheesy deposits; where this was found, the tubercle was generally in the peritoneum. Dr. Billroth believes that caries alone very seldom leads to tubercu- losis by infection, but comes into close relation with it only through its frequent concurrence with cheesy deposits in other parts of the body; such concurrence not always necessarily having the relations of cause and effect, being much more probably the result of a remote cause, com- monly described as the scrofulous diathesis. Regarding the concurrence with caries of certain special diseases of internal organs, the following remarks are made:—Hydrocephalus, when met with, was mostly subacute or chronic; it occurred in 7'5per cent, of the cases. It was most frequent in caries of the elbow, chest, hand, ankle, skull and facial bones, knee, and shoulder; occurring, there- fore, mostly, in connection with caries of the upper limb. In regard to purulent meningitis, with or without tubercle, caries of the skull and of the atlas and axis are set aside, as here the disease often extends directly to the membranes of the brain. In caries of other bones, me- ningitis was rarely found; and the number of cases was too small to allow any conclusions to be drawn. Amyloid degeneration of the liver was found in 8 per cent of the cases; of the spleen, in 5*9 per cent.; and of the kidneys, in 4^5 per cent. Lardaceous liver was found in 8 per cent., in the following order of frequency with regard to the cases where it was above the average:—tibia, 18 per cent.; elbow, ir8; pelvic bones, 10*3 ; bones of the chest, 9*5 ; femur, 9^5 ; foot and ankle, 8'6. Lardaceous disease of the spleen and of the kidneys was also met with in combination with caries of various bones. Fatty liver was found in 7 per cent; it occurred in i7'8 per cent, of the cases of caries of the shoulder, in 15*4 per cent, of those of caries of the pelvis, and in 9*6 per cent, of cases of disease of the knee. Bright's disease was most