llEl'Oit'f ON SU11GEEY. 258 Testis.—A specimen of fibroid deposit in testis and coverings is de- scribed by Mr. Curling. (' Path. Trans.,' xx, p. 249.) A case of recurrent cytic disease of testis is described (' Path. Trans.,' xx, p. 331) by Mr. De Morgan. Rupture of the Ureter.—Mr. Poland narrates the case of a woman who lived six days after a rupture of the ureter. He quotes three other cases, and two of gunshot injuries to the ureter. (' Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' xiv, p. 85.) Gangrene of the Penis.—In an article in the ' Archives Gene>ales de Medecine,' for May, 1870, M. Demarquay shows that it is remarkable that gangrene of the penis has not been made the subject of a special treatise, although it is not rare, and has been mentioned by writers from Hippocrates downwards. He has met with the records of twenty-five cases. The seat of the disease varies ; generally the prepuce alone is affected. The integument of the penis may become gangrenous as far as the base of the organ. The disorganization may extend to the groin and umbilicus; the glaus, urethra, and corpora cavernosa may become sphacelated either partly or (very seldom) entirely. Forestus cites an instance of gangrene of the whole penis, which was removed in a poultice applied to the part. The spongy-tissue and a part of the corpus cavernosum may be destroyed, the skin presenting no manifes- tation of disease beyond a fistulous opening. Generally, however, the subcutaneous cellular tissue is attacked, and mortification of the skin soon follows. Gangrene of the penis is more rarely of the dry than of the moist form. Sphacelus, or total destruction of the organ, has been observed in a very few cases; it is always connected with some consti- tutional condition or special cause affecting the whole organ. The causes of gangrene of the penis are usually local. As to age, the disease is, contrary to what might be at first expected, almost as frequent in the very young and the old as in the adolescent and adult: in early child- hood, it is especially observed in cases of exanthematous febrile disease ; while, in the old, the cause is almost always local. A soft, lymphatic constitution seems to offer a peculiar disposition to gangrene; and, on the other hand, it occurs in individuals of robust sanguineous habit. There must, then, be some immediate determining cause. Among causes of this kind are certain diseases which, affecting the whole body, attack the genital organs at the same time—such as fevers and poison diseases. Scarlatina and small-pox have long been known to produce this result; and Hippocrates speaks of an "erysipelato-putrid" constitution^ favour- ing the production of gangrene. Rostan has described a case in which gangrene of the prepuce occurred in a young and vigorous subject, durmg convalescence from confluent small-pox. Boyer relates three cases of gangrene occurring in the course of blennorrhea complicated with typhoid fever. In one case there was sphacelus of the prepuce alone • in another, the glans and a portion of the corpus cavernosum Avere attacked; in the third, there was sphacelus of the entire organ. « We must however," M. Demarquay observes," be careful m reasoning on such cases; inasmuch as the condition described as typhoid fever