POISONING. 463 that the lethal effects of closes of physostigma greatly in excess of the minimum fatal dose may be prevented by doses of atropia much below the minimum fatal; aud they likewise contained a demonstration of the power of atropia to prevent the lethal effects of certain doses of phy- sostigma. In answer to the possible objection that such a demonstra- tion, being made in the lower animals, does not admit of application to man, Dr. Eraser replies that the actions of physostigma and atropia are precisely the same in man, and dogs, and rabbits A marked difference undoubtedly exists between the susceptibility of man and of these animals to the action of atropia, but this difference, being merely one of susceptibility, requires only that the quantity administered to man should be less than that to either dogs or rabbits, in order that equal effects should be produced. It is, besides, in our power to greatly in- tensity the action of atropia, by modifying the method of its exhibition. If a minute dose be directly introduced into one of the superficial veins of a rabbit, poisonous effects are very speedily produced, and thus the seeming difference in its action on man and rabbits is at once re- moved. In treating cases of poisoning in man, the author recommends that the sulphate of atropia should be given by subcutaneous injection, in doses from i-5oth to i-3oth of a grain. The exhibition of the antidote should be persevered with, in repeated doses, until the pupils are fully dilated and the pulse-rate increased, and probably, also, until the hypersecretion of bronchial mucus, which greatly impedes respiration, is completely checked. Morphia.—Dr. Wilson,* of Philadelphia, relates a case of morphia- poisoning, which was apparently successfully treated by the hypodermic injection of a quarter of a grain of atropine, dissolved in water. The patient speedily lost her stertorous breathing, and in eight hours reco- vered consciousness. This result is contrary to the experience of Brown-Sequard and other observers, which tends to show that death by opium takes place from the same dose, whether belladonna be employed as an antidote or not. Dr. L. Pollakf contributes the notes of a case of poisoning by five and a half grains of atropine. Morphia (it is not stated in what quan- tity) was administered by hypodermic injection, without delaying the fatal result. No antagonism of the action of the morphia to the atropia could be detected. The case is, however, incomplete; for, although the quantity of morphia used is not stated, there is little doubt that too little was given to produce the supposed antidotal effect. Insusceptibility of pigeons to the toxic action of opium.—Dr. Weir Mitchell announces that he has ascertained that pigeons are not sus- ceptible to the usual soporific action of opium,;}; and, moreover, that it is difficult, perhaps impossible, to cause their death by this drug or by morphia. Dr. B. W. Richardson and Dr. Sedgwick§ confirm Dr. Mit- chell's observations. * ' Med. and Surg. Reporter;' quoted in ' Lancet,' 1869, i, 473. t ' Wien. Med. Pres.,' xi, 28, 1870. X ' Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc.,' lvii, p. 37. § ' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,' xliii, p. 539.