REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 74 dented obliquely, and twisted on their axes; (b) somewhat smaller in size, nearly as broad as the ordinary hyaline-cylinder, without folds or fringed ends, and with oblique depressions and fractures; (c) less broad, more delicate, and longer than the usual small hyaline-cylinder, with few fractures, agreeing otherwise with the last, having the appearance of a narrow ribbon with perfectly parallel contours; (d) extremely fine, and as though formed by a division of the third variety into fibrillaj. Complete transitional forms may occur between the different varieties and the true hyaline-cylinder, the cylindroid frequently assuming the likeness of the latter, but easily to be distinguished in its simple form. Baginsky (" Experimented Studien iiber die Nierenkrankungen im Scharlach," ' Centralbl.,' 1870, p. 497) gives the results of his experi- ments, in which he covered large portions of the skin of rabbits with gum, oil, or varnish, or by means of irritating substances (croton oil, turpentine) induced extensive inflammations of the skin, or combined both methods. The urine of nearly all the animals was albuminous, and they died in the course of one to nineteen days. He holds that in these cases there was extensive inflammatory affection of the skin, leading to morbid changes in the kidneys, followed by active hyperemia, which, after a longer period, caused parenchymatous and interstitial alterations of tis- sue. He denies that the cylindroids described by Thomas are confined to scarlet fever, and concludes from his experiments that the treatment of the disease consists in an encouragement of skin-activity (Hautcul- tus) by baths, and rubbing with lard, either alone or combined. Budd ('Brit. Med. Joura.,' 1869, i, 23) enforces the following simple precautions:—(1) Dismantling of the room of all needless woollen or other draperies; (2) a basin of chloride of lime, or other disinfectant, always on the bed for the patient to spit into ; (3) a large vessel containing water impregnated with chlorides or Condy's fluid, always in the room, for the immediate reception of all bed- or body- linen ; (4) the employment of rags instead of pocket-handkerchiefs, burnt as soon as used; (5) plentiful supply of all apparatus needful for the frequent washing of the nurse's hands; (6) scrupulous cleaning of all glasses, &c, used by or about the patient; (7) immediate recep- tion of all excreta into vessels charged with disinfectants. He is in the habit of anointing the body, the scalp included, with olive oil twice a day on the first appearance of the white efflorescence marking the com- mencement of desquamation which may be observed on the neck and arms as early as the fourth day of the eruption; the oiling is continued till the patient is well enough to take a warm bath, when the whole body is scrubbed with disinfecting soap; the baths are repeated every other day till four have been taken, when the skin may be looked upon as disinfected; in a week or ten days longer, no other complication being present, the patient may be considered as no longer the carrier of contagion. These measures conclude with thorough disinfection of the sick bedroom, and the washing or destruction of the nurse's dresses, which should be of linen or some other smooth stuff. The same measures apply, mutatis mutandis, to smallpox, measles, typhus, &c. Thompson ('Lancet,' 1869, i, 291), on the very first access of the fever, puts the patient into a warm bath, which is repeated as often as