HYSTERIA. 103 '• Cerebrospinal Meningitis (case with autopsy) ;" ib. xiix, 48 j. Kiitt- ner; " Vortrag uber Meningitis Cerebro-spinalis Epidemica;" 'Petersb Med. Zeit.,' xv^> S3- Horschelmann; "Meningitis Cerebro-spinalis in der Krimni;" ib. xv, 265. b. Diseases of tJie Nervous System. Hysteria. G-uttmann (" Ein Seltener Fall von Hysterie.," ' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1869,289) gives the following: a single, anaemic woman, set. 38, had been struck with a stone on the left side of the forehead, at the age of twelve, and an inflammation of the brain ensued lasting six weeks. Since then she had suffered from chlorosis, and in her twenty-fourth year had symptoms of paralysis of the left side without anaesthesia, which continued ten years, and was very much benefited by the use of the continuous current. In May, 1865, she had pains in the scar on the forehead, then in the left side of the face and left arm, succeeded by a dull feeling. ISTine months later the same occurred in the left leg, and developed gradually into a left-sided hemiplegia. The same pains and anaesthesia attacked the right side, commencing in the leg, then seizing the arm, and, lastly, the face. In addition to these disturbances, she had suffered for the last ten years from hysterical convulsions, at first daily, then several times in the day, later still recurring at longer in- tervals, and leaving her for six months. After excision of the scar on Dec. 4,1867, sensation returnedgradually to the right half of the body,but as the pain in the scar reappeared, resection of half an inch of the supra- orbital nerve was performed May 26, 1868, with consequent anaesthesia of the corresponding part of the forehead, but with continued pain in the scar. In February, 1869, she presented the following symptoms : complete paralysis of the left olfactory nerves; paresis of the optic and oculo-motor nerves on both sides, especially the right; complete paralysis of the nerves of taste (lingual and glosso-pharyngeal) on the left side, with diminished function of the right; loss of function in the motor portion of the left trigeminus, with complete anaesthesia of the parts supplied by the nerve on the same side; considerable alteration of the leit auditory and facial, and paresis of the left hypoglossal • complete anaesthesia of the skin of the left half of the trunk and left extremities, with loss of motion in the latter. Anaesthesia of the mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx, and vagina. Guttmann is inclined to place the seat of these numerous nerve-changes in the medulla oblongata, and more particularly in the portions of it which contain the terminations of the posterior cords, and the cell-origins of the sensory part of the trigeminal, the auditory, and glosso-pharyngeal; that the medulla alone was concerned is contradicted by the implication ot the optic and left olfactory nerves. Smeth (" Observation d'un cas d'hysterie chez l'homme;" 'Presse Med. tfelge, 1869, 311) records the case of a merchant, set. 32, of a nervous family, who after some emotion was twice seized with attacks ot a nervous character, in which after a feeling of constriction about