287 ClltSOID ANEUltlSM. undergoes fatty degeneration and disappears, and that the walls of the arteries become thinned. "Weakening of the resisting power of the middle coat would thus be tho primary stage in the development of cirsoid aneurism, and the transference of the pressure of the blood to the external coat produces its wasting or atrophy. In regard to treat- ment, Heine places excision in the lirst place, especially in the more simple cases ; a ligature should first be applied to the common carotid artery, or to the arteries of the head which lead tothe tumour. He regard's as groundless the objection that excision is dangerous from exposing too extensive a surface of the skull. Of eight cases operated ou in this way, all recovered. On the other hand, according to statistics, ligature of the external carotid or of the common carotid, on one side, or even of both carotids, is not of itself sufficient. In thirty-two cases, out of sixty, the external carotid was tied, and in three only with successful result, and that doubtful; and the results of ligature of both carotids, in seven cases, were equally unfortunate. In cases where the disease extends over the greatest part of the face or cranium, Heine recommends, as experimental means, transfixion and the twisted suture, injection of the perchloride of iron, or electro-puncture. Gunshot wound of the neck, with reflex paralysis.—Dr. Allen narrates the following case:—An officer was shot in the neck, and immediately became insensible, and remained so for some hours. It was then noticed that complete paralysis of both lower extremities existed, while intense burning pain was experienced in the left palm. The bullet had entered an inch above the left clavicle, a little to the outer side of the sterno- mastoid, and had lodged. During the first seven weeks gradual improve- ment in the paralysis occurred. The left arm was also paralysed, and had not improved. The recovery of sensation seemed to precede that of motion. By the fifth month the patient could walk with crutches. In the sixth he joined his regiment. The burning pain in the hand per- sisted. In the tenth month it is noted that the right side of the body had recovered excepting the foot, which could not be extended com- pletely, and was sensitive to cold. The left had recovered save the power of extension, which was impaired. In the act of walking the limb was swung outwards and forwards by a peculiar motion. Sensation remained obtunded. In the left upper extremity the motion had been restored except in the extensors and flexors of the hand. The fingers were rigid and permanently semiflexed. The palmar pain had almost entirely disappeared, but general sensibility was impaired. The nutri- tion was very deficient. He left the army, and became a clerk. He could walk short distances, and could attend to his duties. At the end of rather more than twelve months symptoms of phthisis set in, and gradually developed. He died three years after the receipt of the injury. A post-mortem examination showed a cicatrix on the side of the neck, depressed, but not puckered, about the size of a split-pea, and non- adherent. No trace of the ball was found till after careful dissection. An irregular particle of lead, about the size of a mustard-seed, was discovered imbedded in the connective tissue between the brachial plexus,