167 AFFECTIONS OF .MOUTH AN'I) (KSOl'UAGUS. and neck, salivation, and a feeling of pressure in the right submaxillary region. .Blondeau (ib., 315) reports an epidemic of mumps occurring in four men employed in the same.house, somewhat remarkable from the fact that the persons attacked were twenty years of age or older, and that in the first of tbe cases reported the double affection of the parotids was accom- panied, while still evident, with double orchitis, not, therefore, simple metastasis. The fourth was suffering at the time from gonorrhoea, and the fact that throughout the period during which he was ill with mumps he had no testicular affection is made the subject of a short note on the denial by some writers of any metastasis in this disease. Glynn, " Cancrum Oris," ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869, i, 248; Legge, " Parotitis in a boy, set 16, with Atheromatous Arteries, Atrophied Kidneys, and Pericarditis; Death," ib., 24;; Pournie, " Quelques cas de Pharyngites pseudomemhranenses," ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1870, 315; "Abces retropharyngiennes idiopathiques, &c," 'Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1S69, ii, 593. Affections of the (Esophagus. Steffen (' Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,' ii, 143) publishes a list of the morbid changes observed in the oesophagus in forty-four children, in three only of whom a diagnosis was made during life. Hyperaemia, catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane, and follicular ulcera- tion, were found in several cases, as well as croup and diphtheritis, either independently or combined. The croup attacked mainly the summits of the mucous folds. Diphtheritis, by itself, occurred only once to any large extent; in the other cases it was found in streaks or islets. The affection never extended beyond the cardiac orifice, though in several cases a croupous exudation had spread from the pharynx throughout the oesophagus and into the stomach. In one case gan- grene was met with in combination with noma, gangrene of the pharynx, larynx, and upper half of the trachea. Thrush was found in the oeso- phagus twice, with its simultaneous occurrence in the stomach, and in two cases also in the upper part of the duodenum. The pustules of varioloid were also found in the oesophagus in two cases. Griffin (' Lancet,' 1869, ii, 337) gives the case of a healthy man, set. 49, who, after a moderate (?) meal—a rent-day dinner—was attacked with violent retching, followed by emphysema of the cellular membrane above both clavicles. Next morning he died. The autopsy showed a longitudinal slit in the oesophagus, immediately above the diaphragm. The majority of cases of oesophageal mischief seem to belong rather to the province of surgery. Some, at least, of the following may claim to be included under medicine: Huber, *' Dysphagia Strumosa," < Deut. Arch.,' vi, 106; Hoffman, " Zur Erweichung des (Esophagus bei Erwachsenen," 'Virch. Arch.,' xlvi, 124; Kraus, " Strictura Oeso- phagi tuberculosa," 'Allg. Wien. Med. Zeitg.,' 1869, 148; Broca, " Rctrccisseruent spasmodiquc de l'ffisophage," 'Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 358; Vigla on same subject, ib., 441. and Gallard, 'L'Union Med.,' viii, 194; Annand'ale, "Case of Congenital Mal- formation of the Oesophagus," ' Med. Press and Circ.,' 1869, i, 201; Murchison, "Cancer of the Oesophagus, with fistulous opening into Trachea, and Cancer (tubercle ?) of the apex of tbe right Lung," 'Trans. Path. Soc.,' xix, 224; Mackenzie, " Ulcer of the Oeso- phagus, supposed to be non-cancerous," ib., 213 ; id., " Epithelial Cancer of (Esophagus,"