DISEASES OF UTERUS. 373 Dr. Willoughby relates a case of diseased uterus of tubercular cha- racter. A woman, a>t. 35, mother of several children, had pulmonary tubercle and died of tubercular pleurisy and peritonitis. She had not menstruated for years. The pelvic peritoneum was beset with cheesy masses, one of which, the size of a walnut, was beneath the peritoneum; this mass had produced rectangular anteflexion of the uterine cavity. The Fallopian tubes were here immensely distended with the same cheesy looking substance, and curiously convoluted; the fimbriated extremities were entirely obliterated by coalescence with the ovaries. These organs were as large as walnuts, filled with the same cheesy material, and one contained an effusion or hematocele. No tubercular deposit was apparent in the lining membrane of the uterine cavity. (' Pathological Transactions,' 1869.) On some forms of enlargement of the uterus. Dr. Atthill (' Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med.,' 1871). A case in which true hydatids were expelled from the uterus is related by Dr. Graily Hewitt (' Obstet. Trans.,' 1870). The patient was thirty- five years old. The uterus was enlarged to the size of a fist. Charac- teristic echinococcus heads were observed. The hydatids passed varied in size from a pea to a gooseberry. In a very important clinical memoir on cancer of the uterus Mr. Henry Arnott gives the conclusions drawn from the observation of fifty-eight autopsies made in the Middlesex Hospital. The most com- mon form affecting the uterus is true cancer, the structure ranging from one almost purely cellular to a tissue exactly resembling the firmest portions of a scirrhous breast. Epithelioma is also very fre- quently met with, in the proportion of nearly three to four. "Well- marked sarcoma is to be found affecting the uterus as well as other parts of the body, although it does not seem to have been hitherto looked for in that locality. Outbreaks of the disease in the neighbour- ing lymphatic glands or in remote viscera are comparatively frequently met with, and furnish a strong argument against rash operative inter- ference. These secondary foci being greatly more common with true cancer and sarcoma than with epithelioma, the microscopic examina- tion of the morbid structure becomes of much importance in determining upon a line of treatment. (' Pathological Transactions,' 1870.) A woman, a?t. 67, was suffering from carcinoma of the uterus. In July Dr. Grub removed by hand a mass of cauliflower-like substance, and drew it out of the uterus, and, cutting it away by scissors from its connections, extirpated it. The following day the woman buried her uterus, using the spade herself. She died on the 3rd September. ('Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' Dec. 1868.) Dr. Wynn Williams relates (< Obstet. Trans.,' 1870) some cases of cancer of the uterus successfully treated by bromine. The method employed was to inject about twenty drops of a solution of twelve grains of bromine in a drachm of rectified spirit, by means of a fine syringe, the point of which was made to penetrate about half an inch into the diseased tissue. A slough follows. The injection may be repeated if diseased tissue be found remaining. The cases selected of