194 REPORT ON SURGERY. Antiseptic treatment. — A clinical lecture, by Mr. Lister, on a case of compound dislocation of the ankle and other injuries, is given in the 'Lancet' of March 19, 26, and April 9. lhe patient was a man, aged 30, who had been run oyer by an engine. Mr. Lister remarks that the injury was most serious. Mr. byme informs me that at one time, on looking into the hospital records he found that the last fourteen cases of compound dislocation ot the ankle, admitted into the infirmary, bad all ended fatally, lie therefore came to regard amputation at the ankle as the best treat- ment in most cases, though he sometimes so far modified his practice as to content himself with removing the end of the tibia, so con- verting the case into one of excision of the ankle." In the present case, the end of the fibula was snipped off and the dislocation reduced. " Watery solution of carbolic acid, as strong as it can be made (one part of the crystals to twenty of water), was thrown into the joint with a syringe, the edges of the skin being held together to prevent i s escape and cause its penetration to all the interstices of the wound ; and this was further promoted by free manipulation of the injured part while the fluid was still in the interior." In an operation per- formed just before (the removal of a fatty tumour) a lotion of halt the strength was used (1 to 40), experience having proved that this is suffi- cient to ensure destruction of the putrefactive organisms in a wound lust made, and made by the surgeon himself Water is the best vehicle, as the antiseptic is required to be powerful for the moment, but tran- sient ; that is, in the preliminary treatment. The liquid introduced having been squeezed out, the process of injection and .^mpuM|on was repeated, and the skin in the vicinity well washed with the lotion to remove organisms adhering to it or to the hairs Lac plaster was then wrapped in two layers round the limb, from three to four inches above the wound to as far below-that is to say, extending well up the Wand embracing the heel and instep. A cloth, 0 absorb the blood and serum which would be discharged from beneath the margins of the Xster, was then bandaged on, and a splint applied to the inner aspect of the lee and foot. " The lac plaster has been much improved of late, by beini incorporated with a soft cloth instead of being spread on starched cabco. It is [thus rendered beautifully flexible and, at the fame tiL much more durable, the ^^^J^^^^ it to withstand any amount of wear and tear. But, as in^this icm it is verv thin, it is well, where much discharge is anticipated or when a long tine i intended to elapse between the dressings, to use it in two avers so as to double the store of the acid m the application. For Stwea " the material which I have lately used is silk steeped for awln e in a mixture of melted bees'-wax with a certain proportion of Carbolic acid-say a tenth part. As the silk is taken out of the hot WidI itdrawn through a dry cloth to remove the superfluous wax; Xr whi 1 it may be wound on a reel and kept m any cloee verf Thfwax besides giving the knot a better hold, prevents the antiseptic fromtof washed out'of the thread and, also, filling up the mterstic s of the fibres Anders the silk incapable of imbibing stimulating liquids; ancl so^confers an unirritating quality corresponding to that of the