284 HEPORT ON SURGERY. (a small bit about an inch square placed over each spot), as lie found that ordinary plaster often brought away a bit of skin with it on any attempt at its removal. (' Notes on Transplantation of Skin.') Mr. Croft exhibited, at the Clinical Society, a patient on whom skin grafting had been practised. On Aug. i, 1870, a piece of skin, a quarter of an inch in diameter, was snipped from the thigh and fixed on the sore. On the nth there was hardly any of it to be seen, but by the 22nd an island of skin, three eighths by one fourth of an inch in size was to be seen. This rapidly spread, and at the end of three months the whole was nearly skinned over.—('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec 3 1870.) Mr. Bracey tried this plan in a case of severe burn in a child. The result promised to be good, but the note is made at an earlv date. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 10, 1870.) Mr. Mason has tried it in nine cases. He had not noticed the pieces of skin to disappear. He took rather larger pieces, it is noted, than at first recommended. Mr. Lawson in two cases transplanted portions the size of a fourpenny piece. They did not disappear, but soon became vascular and spread rapidly in area. ('Lancet,' Oct. 22, 1870.) Dr. Ghllispie has tried " skin-grafting" in one case. Two pieces of skin were taken from the arm, and fastened on to an ulcer granulating healthily but tardily. After two days the patches were found adherent, with a very narrow, bluish pellicle surrounding their margins. On the fourth day an increase in the suppurative action was observed, and one of the patches fell off dead, while the other desquamated, leaving a deli- cate and transparent pellicle behind, resembling in every respect the film of cicatrix encroaching upon the breach of surface from the margins of the ulcer. On the sixth day the patch had grown to nearly double its original size, and at one corner reached the circumference, with which, by the tenth day, a broad isthmus of communication was effected. When this occurred the cicatrization of the ulcer progressed rapidly, and by the twenty-third day it was complete. At no period was there any temporary disappearance of the grafted skin, and the transparent and apparently vascular film, noticed first on the fourth day, continued to be visible and of similar appearance throughout. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 3, 1870.) Mr. Dobson writes on this subject, ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Oct. 29, 1870, and in the same number various cases are reported from the dif- ferent hospitals. It is noted also that Prof. Frank Hamilton, of New York, long ago (1847) tried transplanting a piece of skin from one leg on to an ulcer of the opposite leg without quite severing the attach- ments of the skin. The legs were then fastened together. See also ' New York Med. Gazette,' Aug. 20, 1870. Messrs. Hey and Jessop have tried the plan in a series of cases, with good results. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 10, 1870.) Mr. Couper transplanted portions of skin on to an old ulcer of many years' standing. For the first fortnight they were almost indistinguish- able, and then began to grow rapidly. At the same time that the grafted centres increased the ulcer was observed to heal from the cir-