495 CHOLERA. steam-vessel appeared in Indian waters in 1826. The disease has never found its way from India into Europe by way of the Cape of Good Hope, but invariably by land through Western Asia and Europe. (13) Ships at sea behave like places on land that enjoy immunity, in so far as they never produce any y; they serve, nevertheless, according to present research, for the spread of x and y from one port to another, if after they have left an infected harbour they do not remain longer than twenty-one days at sea away from all communication with land. Cases of cholera occurring on shipboard are usually caused by a previous reception of x and y, or z, on land, although isolated cases may and actually do result from this, that ripe cholera poison (z) has been brought in a certain quantity and state of concentration from land on board ship. The case is even conceivable that x and y have been brought on board at the same time, and that there, simultaneously meeting for the first time, give rise to z; but y is always generated by the soil, or land, and never from the human body. In future a more exact study of the spread of cholera on shipboard than has heretofore been made is impe- ratively necessary. (14) As regards the spread of cholera on land, it may be assumed that the germ x requires the same substratum here as in India, and that the origin of epidemics is dependent upon local and seasonal favouring circumstances. (15) There are regions, localities, and places, some of which frequently, others very rarely, and, again, others never, become the home of cholera, even when commerce con- tinually and everywhere brings in a like quantity of cholera germs. In the places which enjoy this immunity either y is wanting, or y is appro- priated and laid hold of by other germs than x for other processes, or by some other influence going on at the same time the production of z is prevented. (16) The formation of y is favoured by (a) a soil which, like alluvial earth, is porous to water and air to a depth of several feet; (b) a more than ordinary temporary fluctuation in the ground-water; (c) the presence of such organic and mineral matters in this porous stratum as can be acted upon by water so as to produce y; (d) such a temperature of the soil as favours this organic process. (17) The place where x and y meet, and, consequently, where z is developed, may be one of several; x and y may come together in the soil itself, as many Indian cholera fields show; perhaps also in a house, and even in the human body. The action of z may thus proceed from various places. (18) The degree of activity of z in producing sickness depends essen- tially upon the quantity of z, and upon a certain state of the body—the individual disposition. In forming a judgment as to the incontestible influence of poverty, want of cleanliness, bad or improper food, impure drinking-water, bad overcrowded dwellings, absence of change of air, mental affections, age, &c, upon the prevalence and fatality of cholera in a locality, we must distinguish how far these conditions act upon the development, the progress, or the accumulation and conservation of x,y, and z, or upon the establishment of the individual disposition. In general the individual predisposition appears to be favoured by what- ever produces, either permanently or temporarily, a diminution of albumen, i. e. a relatively greater proportion of water in the organism. The simple importation of x into a place, and the presence of persons