REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 346 Under the title of creeping ulcer of the cornea {ulcus serpens), Saemisch* describes an affection not previously mentioned by writers, but of which he has met with several examples. The special character of the ulceration is its tendency to spread both in extent and in depth. It usually commences near the middle of the cornea, and progresses towards one side only, which is marked by a line or crescent of grey infiltration. It becomes a funnel-shaped cavity, and, in about 60 per cent, of the cases, is attended by hypopyon. It is always complicated by iritis, but the amount of irritation is very variable. In view of the small results afforded by ordinary methods of treatment, Saemisch has practised a complete division of the ulcer. He passes a Graefe's cata- ract-knife into the anterior chamber, at a point of the cornea about one millimetre on the temporal side of the margin of the ulcer, keeping the cutting edge forwards, and makes a counter puncture about a milli- metre on the nasal side of the margin, and then divides the intervening tissue. The edges of the wound will be sufficiently united in an hour to allow of the instillation of atropine, and in slight cases all will go well. In more severe cases the ulcer resumes its spreading character in a few days, and then Saemisch reopens the wound with a fine probe or with Weber's lachrymal knife. This reopening is done twice a day at first, and afterwards once a day. Out of 35 cases thus treated 34 made good recoveries. The subject of abscess of the cornea has been treated by Prof. F. Arlt.t who defines the disease to be a collection of pus, enclosed by unaltered layers of the corneal membrane. It is to be distinguished from ulcers, in which the pus is more or less exposed, and in which, besides the epithelium, at least Bowman's membrane is absent; and from inflammatory infiltrations, in which, if there should be softening of the product, an ulcer is immediately formed on the anterior surface of the cornea. In abscess the pus may be either produced where it appears or may travel from another part, the first class of abscesses being called autochthones, the latter abscesses of migration (onyx). In both cases there is a cavity, bounded at least by the membranes of Bowman and Descemet, and usually by uninjured layers of corneal structure. Frequently, also, the cavity is traversed by corneal fibres ; and it may be in communication by a comparatively narrow channel, with either the anterior chamber or the conjunctival sac. The author confines himself entirely to the autochthonous abscesses, which are generally to be recognised easily, and to be distinguished from analogous conditions, when the layer of purulent matter is sufficiently thick to present its characteristic pale yellow colour. It may, however, be so thin as only to appear greyish, and then the following characters must be taken into account. The deposit, when it does not reach the corneal margin, is always circular, never in the form of a band, a triangle, or any irregular figure. It is only after absorp- tion or partial evacuation of the contents that the circularity is lost. The grey or yellow purulent disc, often still transparent, and then diversified by deeper spots or stria?, has limits that are easily distin- # *Das Ulcus serpens Corneae, und seine Therapie,' Bonn, 1870. t ' Archiv f. Ophth.,' xvi, 1.