REPORT ON SURGERY. specific diseases (as scarlatina, Ac), pointed out by Hutchinson very clearly m his article in 'System of Medicine.' Supposing syphilis to bo a gradually elaborated result of sexual intercourse, and to be con- tinual ly arising where such conditions prevail, one would expect in- termediate forms to be met with (between simple urethritis and an indurated chancre), and it is asked, do we not often meet with them lap oltener than we believe, but under the prejudice of a foregone con- elusion iguore their real significance and force them into one or other of our classes ? " Is due weight given to the bearing of the following facts ? Puru- lent discharge from the urethra is sometimes the result of intercourse where there is no evidence or suspicion of previous gonorrhoea, where there is nothing beyond leucorrhoea, or not even that. Nay, such dis- charges sometimes arise, as it is said, spontaneously, or, at" all events, apart from any intercourse. They may and do present all degrees of activity, from mere gleet up to an attack having all the characters of acute gonorrhoea. Gonorrhoea, where there is no evidence whatever of any form of sore, is occasionally followed by constitutional effects- effects such as rash, which may not be distinguishable from those of syphilis. Sores of various forms and degrees often occur on the glans and elsewhere in the course of gonorrhoea. The occurrence of sores, the result of intercourse, which present no features beyond those of" ordinary sores, which may occur upon any part, and which heal without further mischief in the same way. The amount of evidence which exists to Bhow that sores which cannot be distinguished from what is known as the soft suppurating venereal sore, may be contracted from a person in which the most careful scrutiny fails to detect the existence of a sore of any kind whatever. The frequent occurrence of sores of such mixed or doubtful characters that it is impracticable to determine whether they are, or are not, ' specific' The very different forms pre- sented by both soft and hard ' specific' sores, especially the different de- grees of suppuration and induration, and the not infrequent occurrence of sores which may fairly be termed intermediate, or, to say the least, the nature and. result of which cannot be determined from the cha- racters they exhibit; the widely varying degrees which the constitutional effects exhibit, especially in regard to the period at which they occur, the time they last, and the extent to which they are developed." The distinction between unity and duality is of great practical importance in prognosis ; affects our views of the origin of syphilis. " The notion of a poison still continuing after so many years, sharply defined in its operation, and, therefore, it may be assumed, in its nature, must be very different, in the suggestions to which it gives rise, to the idea of a poisoii in its worse form of intense violence, but passing insensibly through milder forms until it loses its distinctive features. Yet, further, surely here is the key, if only we could turn it, which would unlock some of the first truths of physiology. The question of the unity or duality of the poison of syphilis has a most important and direct bearing on the relation which many diseases hold to each other, the degree to which each is defined, and the fixity and permanence of what are known as specific differences.