82 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. larged, medullary on section, and showing lymphatic hyperplasia. Of the peripheral glands those helow Poupart's ligament alone were some- what enlarged by the proliferation of lymph-cells. There was no increase of white cells in the blood of the corpse. Payne gives ('Path. Soc. Trans.,' xix, 401) a case of somewhat the same kind in a boy get. t8, who, always delicate, had suffered for three months from dull aching pain in the lower part of the abdomen. On admission into St. Mary's Hospital a tumour, not itself the seat of pain, was found in the left iliac region, extending from the anterior superior iliac process to the middle line, and for about two inches upwards from Poupart's ligament. The left leg became swollen, the skin and con- junctiva? yellow, a systolic murmur was heard at the heart's apex ; on one occasion there was copious epistaxis. The pain, after a short inter- mission, became more severe, and the patient died, emaciated and comatose, seven weeks after admission. The blood was not examined. The tumour after death was found to consist of enlarged and adherent lymphatic glands, reaching from the left inguinal region almost to the pancreas; the largest mass, about two inches in diameter, was con- nected in the groin with other masses surrounding the external and common iliac artery and vein of the left side, the aorta and inferior vena cava, and others in connection with the liver, pancreas, and spleen. Under the microscope were found the peculiar polymorphous cells described by Virchow in tuberculosis of the lymphatic glands and large-celled lympho-sarcoma—fibro-nucleated tissue and amorphous, perhaps albuminous material, giving no distinctive coloration with iodine. Isambert ('L'Union Med.,' 1869, viii, 38) records also a case of pseudo-leuchamiia; large glandular swellings in the cervical and axillary regions in a man set. 55, with increasing cachexia which gradually became fatal. There was at first no increase in the white cells, but two days before death there were found two or three white to 100 red cells (some increase had been noticed a fortnight before). The autopsy showed simple hypertrophy of all the glands and spleen. Eberth ("Ein Fall von Adenie (Pseudoleukjimie)," ' Virch. Arch.,' xlix, 63) publishes a case of adenoid tumour of the stomach, liver, and kidneys in a child 9^ years old, always feeble and " scrofulous," and constipated. At the end of April, 1868, the patient suffered from a febrile attack with pain in limbs, and swelling and bleeding of the mucous membrane of mouth and pharynx, without any trace of diphtheritic de- posit. On May 5 the face became cedematous, and there was a bloody mucous discharge from the nostrils, and swelling of the parotid. On the 8th the pulse was 140, there were ecchymoses on the chest; the child became delirious, and died on the 9th. At the autopsy the brain was normal; the pleura and pericardium much ecchymosed, and the lungs congested posteriorly. The thymus was large, and weighed a6| grammes. Poth kidneys were large, with numerous flat nodules, about the size of peas or beans, one three times, another four times the size of a cherry, beside very numerous and apparently similar, but only lenticular, 'deposits, all of them white and medullary, some injected. Several very similar small nodules and four large (i\5 cm.) ones were