TUMOURS. :J(>5 chide that, however various other causes may he, whether of inuocent or malignant tumours in the breast, yet uterine or ovarian ailment pre- cedes, with an observable frequency, the development of some mammary disease; that this disease may occupy either breast or both ; that in its nature it may be a transient, though chronic, induration of a segment of the breast, which may not be a strictly anatomical segment j that it may be a dense nodular enlargement of many lobules; that it may be an innocent glaudular tumour; that mammary tumours, differing in con- struction, though alike in cause, may thus coexist in the same person; that of concurrent tumours, not at first distinguishable from one another, some may subside on the abatement of the uterine symptoms, and one take the course of cancer; that mammary disease, following prolonged uterine ailment, may be cancer from the first." (' Brit. Med. Jouru.,' October 30, 1869.) Cancer of the skull.—Mr. Lawson Tait writes on the variety of perios- teal disease of the skull generally known as fungus of the dura mater ('Med.-Chir. Review,' January, 1870). He cites numerous instances from various sources, but considers the disease undoubtedly rare. It is a cancerous disease of the periosteum, leading to perforation of the skull. The patient dies almost invariably with cancerous deposits in internal organs.* A case is described in the ' Path. Trans.,' xx, p. 325, by Dr. Church. Injection of caustic fluids into tumours.—M. Richet has tried the in- jection of chloride of zinc into sebaceous tumours of the scalp. Three or four drops of chloride of zinc, liquefied by exposure to the air, but not further diluted, were sufficient. He has also used this plan in goitre with success. If diluted with water, no result follows the injection. In a case of suppurated cervical gland an injection answered well. ('Gazette des Hopitaux,' No. 85, 1869.) Congenital tumour of the sterno-mastoid.—Mr. T. Smith thinks that the so-called congenital tumour or induration of the sterno-mastoid is probably due to rupture, partial or complete, of the fibres of the sterno- mastoid, giving rise to effusion of blood within the sheath of the muscle and to retraction of the torn fibres. Such rupture he refers to injury during parturition, especially when this was complicated by version and extraction. It has been surmised by some to be an adventitious growth, and by others a syphilitic deposit. Its real nature has never been deter- mined by post-mortem examination. (' Lancet,' December 17, 1870.) Cartilaginous and hony growths.—Mr. Birkett writes on cartilaginous and bony growths. Cases of cartilaginous tumours of the parotid region are given, and then he remarks:—They are developed at early periods of life, their growth is slow, and they cause slight inconvenience till they reach a large size, and they are innocent. They may be dia- gnosed by their nodular surface, more or less firmly and intimately con- * Mr. Hutchinson had a case under care in the London Hospital not long ago. The specimen (of the calvaria) is in the museum (H. 90). Mr. McCarthy has also had a case quite recently at the same hospital. The specimen of the calvaria is preserved in the museum (II. 92).—(Ed.) 20