1M0PORT ON SUHCKRY. 2 12 aud there was every reason to believe that the inflammatory softening was limited to the astragalus. On the other hand, this operation is often performed in cases where the whole or a great part of the tarsus is involved in inflammatory softening, and the patient is much reduced in health by confinement, pain and discharge, or is even affected with obvious constitutional symptoms. In such cases excision, which is a mucb severer operation than amputation, besides not being necessarily a final one, should not be recommended."* A case of excision of the ankle-joint, followed by a useful limb, is narrated by Dr. Murray. (' Dub. Quart. Journ.,' Feb. 1870.) Removal of articular extremities of tibia and fibula, the os calcis, the astragalus, and the scaphoid bones.—Dr. Fayrer mentions the case of a lad nine years of age, the subject of disease of the ankle, &c, on whom he operated. An incision was made on each side behind the malleolus in a curved direction, and then another vertical one to allow of the re- moval of the os calcis. Recovery, with a useful foot at the time of the record, is said to have resulted. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' ii, 1869, p. 125.) Mr. Dearden records a case of excision of a part of the external malleolus, os calcis, and astragalus. The foot was exceedingly useful afterwards. ('Lancet,' Aug. 6, 1870.) Resection of tarsal bones.—Dr. Lehmann, of Polzin, describes in the ' Deutsche Klinik,' No. x, 1870, a case in which he removed the entire os calcis, the astragalus, and the scaphoid bone, and where a useful foot was preserved to the patient. The extirpation of the os calcis where other neighbouring bones are diseased or destroyed has been disapproved of, especially by Dr. Heyfelder, who has founded his objections on the results of twenty-six cases in which either a recurrence of the disease took place or the foot was left too short to be useful. It appeared to Lehmann, however, that the operation might be successful if the peri- osteum were left in connection with the soft parts, the diseased portions of bone being entirely removed. He undertook the operation in the case of a labourer, set. 40, who was suffering from caries of the tarsal bones, and had the satisfaction of seeing the patient not only re- cover, but preserve a useful foot. The following is a description of the operation:—First stage.—The cutaneous incision commences at a point at the outer surface of the os calcis, corresponding to the articu- lation between it and the cuboid bone ; it is then carried backwards along the lower edge of the outer side of the foot, then passes obliquely over the part of the heel corresponding to the outer edge of the tuber- osity of the calcaneum, passes along the lower edge of the inner side of the foot, and ends about two inches below the inner ankle. Its shape is thus that of a sickle. Second stage.—The soft parts are sepa- rated from the bones. To effect this the plantar flap marked out by the incision is, with the periosteum, separated from the under surface * Mr. Little performed a primary excision of the ankle-joint in 1868, in a man, set. 47, suffering from compound dislocation, at the London Hospital. The patient recovered well, and has now, at the end of two and a half years, a very useful foot. He can hear his whole weight on it.—Ed.