65 ENTERIC (Tl'PHOID) FEVER. advanced cases it is absolutely useless, in others, treated early, it not only lessens the intensity but shortens the period of the fever. Three drops of creosote in a mixture, and two injections containing from three to five drops, were ordered daily. Broen ('Presse Med. Beige,' 1869, 165) gives a case in which a man, jet. a 1, recovering from a severe attack of typhoid fever, succumbed to .1 laryngitis ; the autopsy showed the calibre of the larynx diminished by thickened mucous membrane; the cricoid cartilage surrounded by pus, which separated it from the mucous membrane and the muscles to which it gives attachment. The cartilage was black, altered in form, and ulcerated; the arytenoids had commenced to ossify at their sum- mits. The fluid had made its way into the larynx by three small open- ings situated on the right side below the glottis. The latter was not swollen, but its mucous membrane, as well as the ventricles of Morgagni, the superior vocal cords, and epiglottis, was intensely injected; the thyroid gland was enlarged and hard. Laveran ('Archiv. Gen. de Med.,' 1870, i, 425) attempts to show that certain so-called " simple inflammatory" fevers deserve the name of "abortive typhoid fever," and can be diagnosed. To this class belongs every typhoid fever of a duration less than nine days (typhoid febricula, typhus levissimus of Griesinger, abortive typhus of Lebert and Nie- meyer, mucous fever of some authors—the last a term that ought to be dropped altogether). The mean duration is ten to eleven days. Of twenty-five cases occurring under Coindet in the hospital of St. Martin, eleven are given in full. The fever never commences with severe rigors; should the latter occur they are very slight, and repeated. The tem- perature descends gradually, not (as in " ephemeral fever," gastric dis- turbance, &c.) abruptly. The secondary fever was noticed twice only in twenty-four cases, rose-spots in ten out of twenty-five, pain in the right iliac fossa in six out of twenty-five ; bronchitis was present in all but six. Enlargement of the spleen, when it does occur, is a good dia- gnostic sign; generally it is absent or little marked. Peyer's patches seldom ulcerate. In spite of the apparent benignity of the symptoms and short duration of the fever, convalescence is always long—on the average fifteen days, other patients returning, on account of weakness, after leaving hospital. The disease may occur sporadically or epidemi- cally, very frequently in certain epidemics of typhoid fever, of which it is a natural variety. Its prognosis is not grave; treatment cannot convert a true typhoid into an abortive one. Zimmermann, " Zur Theorie der Tagesschwankung im Fieber des Abdominal-typhus," 'Deut. Archiv f. Klin. Med./ vi, 561; Masserell, "Fall von spontanes Gangran nach Abdominal-typhus," ib., v, 445; Soulier, "fitude critique sur la Fievre Typhoide," •Lyon Med.,' 1869, ii, 374; Clement, "Tremblement generalise simulant la Paralysie Asritante observe dans le cours d'une Fievre Typhoide," ib., iii, p. 494; Hervier, "Epidemie de fievre a type continu a Rive-de-Gier," ib., p. 489; Pfeiffer, " Beitriigc zur Aetiol. und Pathol, des Typhus in Thiiringen," ' Zeitsch. f. Epidem.,' i, Nos. i and 2; Guilhert, "Sur la Fievre Typhoide tres legere," 'L'Union Med.,' 1869, vii, 19; Knoevenagel, "Beitrag zur Aetiol. des Typhus Abdom.," ' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1869, 484; Ulrich, "Laryngotyphus, Tracheotomie, Entfernung des Canulc nach 7 nionaten; lleilung," ib., 485; Tallois, " Epidemie de Bruxelles, Empoisonnement Miasmatique," 'Presse Mod. Beige.,' 1869, 181 j Churchill, "On an Epidemic Fever nt Simon's 5