312 REPORT ON SURGBRY. o SL2° nT8 -n ^j0!1 tbe °Perafcion ™» completed, 17 recovered and 31 • J, 4 m Wlnch an exploratory incision only was made, 1 died nn Vv n11 q CaoS,e-^1.CanCer the Patient died- These were operated on by Dr. Syen Skoldberg, of Stockholm. ('Med. Times and Gazette ' J-'ec. 11, 1 oop.) Removal of the uterus and its appendages.—In a communication made to the Academy of Medicine in Paris, on December 7, i860, M. IY-an related the history of a case in which he had removed the uterus and its appendages. The patient, an unmarried woman, at. 41, came under M. Pean's care, complaining of an abdominal tumour and its attendant grievances. An examination led to the diagnosis of a multilocular ovarian cyst, together with a fibroid tumour attached either to the right ovary or the fundus uteri. An operation was performed on September 22, i869._ Chloroform having been given, the abdomen was opened by an incision from the pubes to eight centimetres above the umbilicus A multilocular ovarian cyst was first brought into view; this was emptied by numerous punctures, and was detached piecemeal from its connec- tions, which were confined to the posterior surface, and were very firm. The uterus was largely hypertrophied, extending as high as the umbili- cus; it was closely adherent to the cyst on the right side and posteriorly The right ovary was the seat of a fibrous tumour, measuring twelve centimetres m length and six in breadth, and adherent to the cyst-wall The Fallopian tube was much hypertrophied, and was distended with a fluid resembling that found in the ovarian cyst. These conditions to- gether with the difiiculty of restraining the bleeding from the uterus at the part where the adhesions had been detached, lead M. Pean to under- take the removal of the whole uterus with its diseased appendages. The wound m the abdomen being enlarged, the intestines were held aside by assistants, and M. Pean raised the uterus with the tumours, in doing which he found that the hypertrophy had involved the neck. He passed, by means of a long needle, a loop of iron wire through the cervix and the vagina, and thus formed two ligatures, by tightening one of which he isolated the greater part of the cyst, a portion of the broad ligament, and the corresponding part of the cervix uteri; while by the other, on the right side, the remainder of the uterus, the whole of the broad ligament, and the tumours, were separated. On the third day sphacelation of the ligatured portions commenced; this was attended with the discharge of a blackish, fetid fluid, and the wound was dressed with perchloride of iron. On the sixth day the sloughed parts were re- moved, and three india-rubber tubes were introduced into a portion of the cyst which had been left at the base of the pelvis. The object of these tubes was to allow the escape of purulent secretion, and to facilitate the use of antiseptic injections. On the twenty-fifth day the portion of cyst left in the pelvis was thrown off. In six weeks the patient, whose progress throughout had been satisfactory, was able to sit up, and at the date when M. Pean made his report she was quite well. Subcutaneous section of the infra-orbital nerve.—B. von Langenbeck describes (' Archiv fur Klinische Chirurgie,' xi, 1869) a method°of neu-