FRACTURE OP THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 245 Will recover perfect rotation without incurring the risks from angular displacement which are said to follow the treatment by complete supi nation of the forearm and hand. Some interesting cases of injury to nerves in joint fractures, of pain after joint fractures, and of nutrition spoiled alter hurts to nerves are detailed; also cases of fractures of the patella and " sprain fractures." Under the latter heading " may be included many cases which scarcely receive sufficient attention and which are very troublesome in their results; cases in which some 'liga nient is torn, carrying with it a film or shell of bone, into which its fibres are inserted. These cases are of common occurrence, and illus- trate the rule that bone gives way before fibrous tissue tears. Their troublesome after-consequences may be (i) deformity and impaired movement of a joint; (2) the production of a semidetached body which may become entangled between joint surfaces ; or (3) necrosis of a bit ot bone within an articulation. They merit attention because their origin is m hurts apt to be considered trivial, because the damage is unlortunately apt to be overlooked, and because some of them are amongst the cases which get, later on, into the hands of bone-setters and joint-manipulators, usually to the great hurt of the patient." This sort of accident is very common at the ankle. Cases of injury to the bones ot the knee m a similar manner are narrated. (< St. Barth. Hosp -Kep., vi, p. 33.) * Fractures of tie neck of the femur. -Mr. Bryant writes on this sub- ject, and detads cases in the 'Medical Times and Gazette,' April 17th and May 1st, 1869. Woodcuts are given of specimens from four cases ±ne common occurrence of impaction is insisted on, and the following conclusions are deduced from the table of symptoms drawn up :- ft™ TV? thf the injul7 to the hip-joint was communicated through the great trochanter. (a) That, as a result of the injury, there was more or less loss of power in the limb ; in some cases it was com- plete ; m as many the patient could rotate the limb slightly on the ?Ttw™ ^ !T Ca86S Partia!.flexi011 of the thigh could be performed. ill a ? £e £as,es immediate shortening of the injured Kmb was alt tt Ult °f, the aCCid6nt' and that tnis ^ortening was about nf th»t°T f8' !fd T irremediable by extension. (4) That the foot hi eveTStf S 7 WaS eithe\st™Sht °* BligMy everted, although . in severa cases this eversion was less marked on the injured than on meedfa°nUleoftht5Watth,e tr-b-^r was placed nearer the median line of the body and also nearer the anterior-superior spinous process of the crest of the ilium than on the sound side. P(6) and t°ha thr" V?*}* made t0 r°tate 8moot%in tbe acetabulum! either all" f^l^^oved with it. (/) That crepitus wa on««S°r'nd,8tl*ctlu al*the cases. (8) That all the cases, with wmrS J I' 0CCUrredl? Pafaents past middle age. " Now these SnKS f a8/wh,o e' without the slightest doubt indicate an S tt^r'' f°r' a,th°Ugh there are oth™ to the hip! detailed \L Y 8176 n8e' 8eParatelv' to many of the symptoms just W&t7 iU WWch a11' °r m°si> are found combined, ^ere is no injury to the hip-joint in which the head of the femur rests