ItErOItT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 302 marked flattening by the recti muscles. In the present instance there was nothing of the kind. The cornea retained its natural brilliancy; and, although pressure on the globe produced a depression, this became completely effaced when the pressure was removed. Neuralgic pains were a dominant symptom in the case reported by von Graefe. In this, during the five attacks that occurred in the hospital, pain was only once noted, and then did not exceed a slight ciliary neuralgia. It is worthy of notice that the only sensation constantly experienced by the patient was one of pressure, as if the globe had been distended. This feeling may, perhaps, be explained by the pressure upon the ciliary nerves of the engorged choroidal vessels, in consequence of the hyperemia ex vacuo which must have existed. The effusion of blood into the anterior chamber on the first occasion must have been caused by a sudden hypersemia ex vacuo, and probably proceeded from one of the vessels of the iris. It is not easy to discover the cause of these variations in the intra- ocular tension. We may suggest that some disturbance of nerve plays a chief part in their production, but the nature of this disturbance cannot be ascertained. The effect cannot be due to reflex irritation of the trifacial, since Donders, and more recently Hippel and Griinhagen, have shown that irritation of this nerve increases tension. The last- named authors have also established that irritation of the sympathetic is followed by diminished tension. But still, unless we admit a primi- tive central irritation of the sympathetic, we have made but little advance, for we cannot conceive how a reflex action can be transmitted from one to the other, or, at least, the existence of such a reflex action has never been demonstrated. Even if we had discovered the nature of the nervous disturbance, it would still be difficult to explain the changes in the vitreous body. One can scarcely understand how a large quantity of a gelatinous substance of this character can be so quickly absorbed or reproduced as to modify suddenly the consistence of the eye. If, however, in place of vitreous of normal consistence, we have a very fluid humour, a serous exudation subject to all the vicissitudes of secre- tion and absorption, it becomes more easy to understand how, enclosed within a membrane so vascular as the choroid, very rapid changes may be produced. Such must have been the case with the patient in questiou. Dr. Gouvea h^as shown, and Prof. Iwauoff has confirmed, that in all cases of extraction of cataract attended by considerable loss of vitreous the hyaloid membrane becomes detached from the retina, and the re- sulting space filled by a serous exudation, the vitreous itself never being regenerated. In this patient there had been considerable loss of vitreous during the operation, and it may be surmised that detachment and exudation had taken place. In this way many of the symptoms may be readily explained. Detachment of the vitreous may also occur idio- pathically, and, indeed, is not rare, neither is it incompatible with very satisfactory vision. It is, therefore, not improbable that the two cases of a like kind, previously recorded, were produced in a similar manner. The resources of the ophthalmic surgeon have been enlarged by a few improvements in instruments. Messrs. "Weiss have devised a very