REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGEUY. 338 of a half-yearly journal of 'Ophthalmology and Otology,'* which was to appear simultaneously in the English and the German languages, edited in New York by Professor Knapp, and in Heidelberg°by Professor Moos, but of which only this first number has as yet reached England. The " Practical Guide" of Dr. Williamst has reached a third edition ; a tiny treatise J has been put forth by Dr. A. Salomons ; and Professor Knapp's book on intra-ocular tumours§ has been translated by Dr. Cole, of Chicago. In Germany, E. von Jager has written on the ophthalmoscope || and on ocular pathology ;f Mooren, on sympathetic ophthalmia ;** Hirsch- berg, on retinal cancer ;ff and Schelske, a small treatise on ophthalmic diseases generally.;]; J The ' Archiv fur Ophthalmologic' will be continued by Arlt and Donders, and Zehender's ' Klinische Monats- blatter' appear as usual. In France, Dr. Meyer§§ has published his lectures on refraction and accommodation, and Dr. Maurice Perrin |||J has written on the oph- thalmoscope and on optometry. Galezowski has published the first part of a systematic treatise,^ Dr. A. Sichel*** has translated v. Graefe's " Essay on Paralysis of the Ocular Muscles ;" and Dr. Wecker has prepared an original French text to be issued with the plates of Jaeger's " Hand Atlas." The appearance of this work has, however, been arrested for a time by the war. In Belgium the ' Annales d'Ocu- listique' have been published regularly. Besides the works above enumerated, a few pamphlets, theses, and the like, have also been published, and to some of these reference will be made. (a) Anatomy and Physiology. The chief contributor to an increased knowledge of the normal and pathological anatomy of the eyeball has been Iwanoff,ttt who has written at great length on the anatomy of the iris and its attachment, on the ciliary body, on detachment of the vitreous body, on glioma retina?, on oedema of the retina, and on the ciliary muscle. In the first of these articles he was assisted by Eollett. As regards physiology, the work done has chiefly fallen within the domain of physiological optics, and affords little matter of general interest. Dr. Pope, of New * ' Archives of Ophthalmology and Otology,' New York, 1869. t ' A Practical Guide to the Study of the Diseases of the Eye,' Boston, 1870. X ' Handbook of the Diseases of the Eye, their Patholoirv and Treatment,' Boston, 1870. § « A Treatise on Intraocular Tumours,' &c. By II. Knapp, M.D., New York, 1869. || ' Ophthalmoskopischer Hand-Atlas,' Wien, 1869. ' Beitriige zur Pathologie des Auges,' Wien, 1869. ** ' Ueber syrr.patische Gesichtsstorungen,' Diisseldorf, 1869. ft ' Der Markschwamm dcr Netzhaut,' Berlin, 1869. XX ' Lehrbuch der Augenheilkunde,' Berlin, 1870. §§ ' Lecons sur la Refraction et l'Accommodation,' Paris, 1869. Illl ' Traitc pratique d'Ophthalmoscopie et d'Optometrie,' Paris, 1869. ' Traite des Maladies des Yeux,' 8vo, Paris, 1870. -*** <])es Paralysies des Muscles moteurs de l'CEil,' Paris, 1870* ttt ' Arch. f. Ophth.,' xv, Abth. 1, 2, and 3.