358 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. the patient. She had since then been seen several times, last in December, 1869, and had remained in a normal condition. Professor Graefe regards the spasm in this case as a reflex neurosis, which, in the early period, did not differ from that which ordinarily attends ophthalmia. Such neuralgias are subject to irradiations, which may persist after the original affection has disappeared, and may give rise to secondary foci of disorder. Under this hypothesis the nerve section did not directly cause the removal of the muscular hyper- esthesia, but acted only by the elimination of one of the secondary foci. The spasm of the left internal rectus was complicated by spasm of accommodation in both eyes, and, by showing the relation which exists between the ciliary nerves of the two eyes, confirms the doctrine of sympathetic ophthalmia. It is not necessary, in order to explain the different localizations of spasm, to trace an anatomical dependence be- tween the nerves of the suffering parts, for experience shows that spasmodic affections easily extend from one muscle to another that acts with it synergically, as with the muscle of accommodation and the rectus internus. The causes and nature of nystagmus have been very carefully investi- gated by Dr. A. E. Gadaud, who has published a treatise on that affec- tion,* which he concludes with the following propositions : (1) Nystagmus is either symptomatic or idiopathic. (2) When symptomatic, it indicates either an encephalic lesion or a lesion of the medulla or annular protuberance. (3) In the former case it is seen, in infants, chiefly with tubercles of the brain; in adults, either after wounds of the encephalon, or after various morbid processes, such as softening, or hseinorrhage. (4) It constitutes in such cases a passing symptom, often associated with double strabismus and rotation of the head, and indicating a fatal termination. (5) When it is associated with a lesion of the commissure and medulla oblongata (traumatic, organic, or any other) it is more lasting; and although of itself it has no special meaning, yet it shows that the centres of vital functions are in danger. (6) It depends upon defective co-ordination of the associated move- ments of the eyes; and is a phenomenon of the same order as the rotatory movements observed in animals, after lesions of the crura cerebri. (7) The centre of co-ordination of the associated movements of the eyes may be referred to the grey substance at the level of the pro- tuberance of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and of the restiform body. (8) When one of these centres is diseased, it is thereby thrown into activity, and its activity is no longer in harmony with that of its fellow; whence follows a derangement of the movements of the corresponding eye. As the movements of the two eyes are synergic, the disorder of one determines a similar disorder in the other. (9) Such an excitation is not necessarily produced by disease of the centre itself, but may be propagated from neighbouring parts. Hence the diversity of the lesions that have been observed. * ' Etudes sur le Nystagmus,' Paris, 1869.