118 IlEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Med. Journ.,' 1869, i, 260) found an absence of many of the symptoms which characterise the so-called acute hydrocephalus of children. For instance, there was no vomiting, strabismus, or ptosis ; no irregularities in rhythm of pulse and respiration; no epileptiform convulsions; no well-defined paralysis or cutaneous hyperesthesia; no retraction ot abdomen or grinding of the teeth 5 no nuchal rigidity, so striking a symptom of meningitis in children; no alteration in the pupils. Colberg ('Deut. Archiv,' v, ,560) has left on record a case of acute hydrocephalus of the ventricles, with contraction of the neck, without any affection of the meninges at the base of the brain, in a woman, a?t. 27, in whom the microscopic examination showed the adventitia of numerous vessels filled with small cells, and the nuclei of many capillary vessels in a state of proliferation. A second case is given as an illustration of Dietl's paradoxical assertion, that acute oedema of the brain represents a tubercular meningitis arrested in the congestive stage. A phthisical woman, set. 23, was attacked, six days before her death, with left hemiplegia, the cause of which Colberg considered to be a circumscribed right-sided oedema of the brain. With this was found a development of recent tubercles, and some gelatinous exuda- tion in the pia mater at these places. Billroth (' Wien. Med. "Woch.,' 1869, 1) publishes the history of two boys, of the ages of five and eight years, who had surgical fever after operations (resection of the knee-joint, and extirpation of an enlarged thyroid), and died of coma after convulsions. The autopsy showed acute oedema of the brain, thickening of the diploe, and abnormal ossifi- cation of the sutures. He considers that the oedema was due to— (1) the hyperasmia set up by the loss of blood and the large amount of water subsequently drunk; (2) the increase of blood-pressure caused by the pyrexia, by which all the tissues of the body were saturated with excess of fluid; (3) the changes in the skulls of both patients, which may have been the result of a former rachitic process, if it be assumed that the thickening of the diploe and the abnormal ossification of the sutures, by narrowing the fissures of Santorini and the foramina lacera, hinders the exit of venous blood from the cavity of the brain. Besides this, the lymphatic exit of the cerebrospinal fluid might itself have been narrowed. . Heddams (' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1869, 564) contributes in full the history of a child, »t. if, whose illness commenced under the form of typhoid fever, and who was attacked later by convulsions, lasting for about fourteen days. He attempts to make out that this was one of those very rare cases of recovery from miliary tuberculosis of the lungs and meninges (!). , Bouchut ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 202) gives five cases, which prove the existence of a congestive neurosis of the brain simulating menin- gitis and dependent on chlorosis, in four girls between the ages of 9 and 14, and in a boy set. 13- In all there was more or less congestion of the optic disc, with pains in the head, vomiting, and slow pulse. He looks upon it as a vasomotor affection set up by reflex action, from irri- tation of the uterus, intestines, stomach, or tonsils, and considers that the indications for treatment will be found in those organs.