158 REPORT ON PRACTICAL JLBDIOINE. than usual, without murmur, or acceutuation of the second sound. Oyer the aorta the first, aud in the neck the second, sound was redu- plicated. The internal jugular veins were distended, with double pulsation and thrill at times. Later the patient was attacked with erysipelas of the head and neck, and died rather suddenly from failure of the heart's action. The autopsy showed atheroma of the aorta and pulmonary artery ; enlarged and dilated heart, with healthy valves; thickened walls of right ventricle, and hypertrophied columnar carnea?,' with a small fibrous spot in one of them ; slight thickening of the endocardium. The left ventricle was the chief seat of the disease; posteriorly and at the base its muscular substance was healthy and of" natural thickness, but at the apex and upwards over the anterior portion to within an inch of the base, its walls presented throughout the characteristic aspect of atrophy and degeneration. At the apex the thickness measured about two lines, and higher up three lines, almost entirely composed of tendinous and fibrous tissue, the latter most abundant next the endocardium, the adjoining septum being similarly degenerated. The pericardium was healthy. Towards the apex, the fibrous wall was bulged out, forming a rounded excavation in the ven- tricle, one and a half inches in diameter—the commencement from within of a circumscribed heart aneurism. The musculi papillares were atrophied. There were embolic cicatrices in the spleen and kidneys. The other organs were healthy. The paper concludes with a comparison of the post-mortem appearances with the symptoms presented during life. Crocq (' Presse Med. Beige,' 1869, 24) showed to the Anat. Path. Society of Brussels a heart with hypertrophy, especially of the right ventricle, without valvular mischief, resulting from emphysema. Payne (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 130) records two cases of sudden death from affection of the heart in two men, aet. 75 and 67. There was well-marked fatty change in the first, slight in the second. In both the arteries at the base of the brain were atheromatous. Whipham (ib., 652) brought before the Pathological Society a heart from a man a3t. 29, in the walls and columnse carnese of which were fibrous growths apparently of some standing, similar—in the absence of any history of syphilis—to the so-called syphilitic deposits. Moxon (ib., 167) showed to the same society a specimen of primary hydatid of the heart, situated posteriorly, at the junction of the auri- cular with the ventricular septum, and by its pressure occluding the coronary sinus. Kelly (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xx, 145) records the case of a boya>t. 10, who died suddenly from rupture of an hydatid cyst into the right auricle, one large sac the size of a walnut had escaped from it, and was found after death to lie against the tricuspid valve, preventing the passage of blood, and of the smaller vesicles into the right ventricle. An oval hydatid cyst was also found in a main branch of each pulmonary artery. Fowler, " Fibroid (probably syphilitic) Degeneration of the Heart," ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xix, 108 ; Pick, " Fibroid Degeneration of the Heart (syphilitic?): aneurism in the right ventricle and in the septum ventriculorum," ib., 156; Arnott, "Aneurism of the left