RELATIVE FREQUENCY OF CARIES. 269 sticks over the thigh, is narrated by Mr. Paget (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iii, p. 183). A sequestrum was removed by operation. A case of wasting of part of the tongue, in connexion with necrosis of the occipital bone, is narrated by Mr. Paget. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iii, p. 238.) Dr. Brotherston mentions the case of a man from the centre of whose frontal bone a sequestrum was removed twenty-eight years after the commencement of the disease. The sequestrum probably included the whole thickness of the skull, and was wedged in so that it could not separate spontaneously. ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' Jan., 1870.) Bickets.—Mr. Marsh has practised the forcible straightening of rickets of bones, under chloroform, in young children, with advantage. ('St. Earth. Hosp. Kep.,' vi, p. 124.) Fracture in Syphilis—In the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' April 17th, 1869, Dr. Elliot publishes a narrative of a case of fracture of the humerus, without known violence, in a syphilitic patient. The bone was obtained at a later period, and woodcuts of its appearance are given. Briefly, the changes were those of interstitial absorption in many parts and also of condensation in others. The bone became enlarged, but not strengthened. Regeneration of Bone.—Mr. Wilkes removed nearly half of the humerus and the elbow-joint of a lad, twelve years old, six weeks after compound fracture. A useful limb was obtained. Illustrations are given. ('Path. Trans.,'xxi, p. 313.) Mr. Marsh records a case in which he removed eight inches of the shaft of the femur of a boy nine years old. The bone was divided with a chain saw, and the lower portion extracted. Three months later, the upper half was removed. At the end of nine months the shaft was perfectly firm. The limb was three-quarters of an inch shorter than its fellow. ('St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,' vi, p. 126.) Dr. Cheever gives cases of reproduction of tibia: in a girl, set. 13 (with figures), and in a girl, aet. 8. (' Bost. City Hosp. Rep.,' 1870, p. 392.) Belative Frequency of Caries.—The twelfth volume of ' Eangenbeck's Archiv fur Klinische Chirurgie,' 1870, contains, at p. 314, an elaborate article, by Drs. Billroth and Menzel, on the relative frequency of caries, in different bones, and on the combination of chronic inflammation of bones, with tuberculosis and other chronic diseases of internal organs. The remarks are founded on the statistics, compiled by Dr. Menzel and Dr. Perco, of the records of the necropsies in 2106 cases of chronic inflammation of the bone, made in the Vienna General Hospital, from 1817 to 1867. The total number of necropsies recorded was 52256. Of the 2106 cases, 1996 were instances of caries and 100 of necrosis. The latter were distributed as follows : skull and facial bones, 21; ster- num, clavicle, and ribs, 16; scapula, 5 ; humerus (shaft), 5 ; pelvis, 17; femur (shaft), 21; tibia (shaft), 20; fibula, 2. It is to be observed, however, that death from necrosis rarely occurs in hospital; and hence