PERICARDITIS—MYOCARDITIS. 1 57 pericardium was not pierced at first, but on a second attempt 780 grammes of fluid escaped. The patient was much relieved, but was suddenly attacked next day with a fit of suffocation, and died three hours afterwards. The autopsy showed a small quantity (about 100 grammes) of fluid in the pericardium, false membranes on the latter, with tubercular granulations, and some fibro-cellular adhesions uniting the two layers near the heart's apex. He considers that the ultimate cause of death was to be found in the formation of large clots, especially in the right heart; one (an embolus ?) obliterated the pulmo- nary artery going to the right lung. Lobel (quoted in ' Centralbl.,' 1870, 43) used a glass syringe which could contain an ounce of fluid, and armed with the needle of a sub- cutaneous injection-syringe, to draw off the pericardial fluid in a woman set. 68, in whose case all internal remedies had failed, and death was imminent from suffocation. The canula was plunged into the third left intercostal space, an inch from the margin of the sternum. On with- drawing the piston the syringe was filled with a clear yellowish fluid. In this way about three ounces of serous fluid were removed. The heart dulness was diminished, and the patient felt relieved, and for the first time for a long period was able to sleep. But the improvement did not last long; double hydrothorax supervened; twelve days after the first operation it was again repeated, this time in the third right intercostal space, the point of the needle being directed to the left, and three more ounces were taken away. Next day the patient died. The autopsy bore out the diagnosis; there was no blood in the pericardium, or lesion of the heart; the perforations of the needle were distinct; there were several tubercles in the pericardial false membranes. Wilks, "Adherent Pericardium as a cause of Cardiac Disease," 'Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' 1870, 196; Guy's Hospital, "Autopsy and case of attempted Suicide during Delirium of Acute Pericarditis," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 9; Ralfe, "Extensive Effusion into the Pericardium, caused by a fibrinous clot occluding the orifice of the coronary veins," ib., ii, 553; Healon, "Fatal Case of Hydropericardium," ib., ii, 8; Allbutt, "Remarks on Paracentesis Pericardii," ib., ii, 31; Id., " Clinical Lecture on Paracentesis Pericardii," ' Lancet,' 1869, i, 807 ; " Pericarditis : Puncture of Pericardium," ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1870, 281; Jacobs, " Pericardite et Endopericardite chez les Viellards," 'Presse Med. Beige,' 1869, 309; Jennings, "Specimen of Pericarditis," ' Dubl. Journ.,'xlviii, 218; Eames, " Case of Pericarditis, with Autopsy," 'Med. Press and Circ.,' 1869, i, 116. Diseases of myocardium; heart aneurism ; hydatids. Sanders (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' xiv, 673) gives the case of a man, *t. 54, who had been attacked three years before with dyspnoea and pain in the chest, which had compelled him to give up work five weeks before his admission into hospital. His symptoms during life had been great venous congestion of the face and upper extremities, increased by exertion, dyspnoea and a feeling of exhaustion or syncope. He had some oedema of the legs and anasarca. The heart was enlarged trans- versely, its dulness measuring four and a half inches across to the left of the sternum, its impulse strong and diffused with indistinct apex heal. The pulse was small, weak, with occasional intermissions at long intervals. The comparative strength of the cardiac and weakness of the radial pulse was very striking. On auscultation both sounds were less marked