EMBOLISM, THROMBOSIS, ETC. 153 peri-cardium, pleura, and lungs, in the kidneys and bladder, and in several muscles of the trunk. There were also fibrinous patches, the results of emboli, found in the spleen, kidneys and liver. The last- mentioned organ was large, with tense capsule, the embolic deposits in it firm, yellowish, with an injected halo, and fibrinous in character. No clot could be found in the hepatic artery or its branches. With this case lie unites two others of embolism from endocarditis, in both of which a clot was found obstructing the superior mesenteric artery. Meiggs (' Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences,' lvii, 24) gives the history of a case of embolism occurring in a boy set. 10, and following scarlet fever, in which the subclavian or axillary artery on the left side and both tibials were plugged, the patient recovering ; and a second case in a man fifty-two, of embolism of the right anterior tibial and right brachial, in connection with thickened and ossified aortic valves, dilata- tion of the ascending and constriction of the descending thoracic aorta. Church (' St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,' vi, 99) is convinced from further research that disease of the arterial wall is rarely, if ever, a cause of intracranial aneurisms in the young; that hypertrophy of the left side of the heart has little share in their production; that they are nearly always due to embolism, and are most common in the middle cerebral arteries and their branches, the vessels which are most frequently the seat of plugging from embolic masses. He thinks it probable that aneurismal dilatations take place when the blood-stream through the artery is obstructed, but not completely stopped; the dilatation conse- quent on the partial obstruction causing interference in the nutrition of the wall of the artery and the contiguous parts, the former yielding where it is least supported. He gives in full four cases of the kind occurring in three males set. 13, 15 and 20, in the right middle cerebral, and in a female aet. 17, in the left anterior cerebral, artery. Joffroy (' G-az. Med. de Paris,' 1869, 446) gives a case, in a female set. 34, of embolism of the right artery of the Sylvian fissure with con- siderable narrowing of the mitral orifice; the clot became organized and contracted, so that one part of the artery was again able to trans- mit blood. Death occurred four months after the apoplectic attack. Liouville (ib., 519) records a case of sudden death in a female set. 78, in whom there had been incomplete left hemiplegia; the autopsy showed ischaemia of nearly the whole right cerebral lobe, an embolism entirely obstructing the termination of the right internal carotid and its two branches ; the clot hard, well formed, rounded, smooth, not adherent. Orr (' Glasg. Med. Journ.,' 1869, i, 145), in reference to a case of advanced change in the aortic valves with embolism of the left artery of the Sylvian fissure in a boy of thirteen, makes some remarks on emboli and cardiac coagula, which contain nothing fresh. Ogston ('Med.-Chir. Eev.,' xliv, 452) on " sudden death," describes thrombosis of the heart and great vessels as present in 10 per cent, of the whole number tabulated, noting its rarity in the aorta and pulmonary arteries, and in the inferior vena cava. McKendrick (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' xv, 396) publishes a case of cardiac thrombosis in a girl of nineteen, in which the clot caused death by closure of the mitral orifice.