374 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. course were in the early stage, when the disease was limited to the cervix. Hence a douht may exist as to the correctness of the diagnosis in some of the cases narrated. A case of carcinoma of the body of the uterus was exhibited by Dr. Priestley (' Obstet. Trans.,' 1870). The prominent symptoms had been profuse and irregular haemorrhages, alternating with abundant watery discharges intensely fetid. Death took place with symptoms of sudden collapse. It was found that perforation had taken place through the anterior wall of the uterus. Carcinoma of the body of the uterus is illustrated by a case shown to the Obstetrical Society ('Trans.,' 1870) by Dr. Protheroe Smith. The chief symptom was agonising pain; there was also offensive dis- charge. The cervix was quite intact. Dr. Phillips (op. cit.) described another case. The patient was 22 years old. The fundus uteri was converted into a mass of malignant disease, and there was similar disease of both ovaries, but the cervix was quite free. The uterus was movable. Dr. G-usserow discusses the nature of sarcoma of the uterus and its diagnosis from cancer. There are two forms:—1. Hard sarcoma. 2. Soft or diffuse sarcoma. Both may present spindle cells and round cells. They are very rare. He relates a case of each. In the first, the patient suffered intense pains; there was no remarkable haemorrhage, but an intermitting discharge of flesh-water-like fluid; the vaginal portion was quite intact; the body of uterus was enlarged, and in connection with it was a tumour the size of an apple. This tumour very rapidly increased to the size of a child's head. Peritonitic symp- toms and quick prostration set in. The tumour pointed a little below the navel, where fluctuation was felt. Thinking it was a suppurating fibroid, it was determined to puncture, but in the meanwhile spontaneous perforation occurred. Pluid fasces came from the opening, with pus. The patient died next day. The uterine cavity was filled with pus and fasces. The intestine adhered to the tumour and a communication had been established. Uterus enlarged. The tumour consisted of very uniform structure, sarcoma with spindle and round cells, the first pre- dominating. ('Arch. f. Gynakologie,' 1870.) Displacements of the Uterus. M. Panas has examined the direction of the uterus in 114 women at the Lourcine who were not affected with uterine disease. He found the uterus quite straight in 44, anteflexions in 40, anteversions in 12, retroflexions in 3, retroversions in 3, lateriversions in 12. (' Arch. Gen. de Med.,' March, 1869.) Betroflexion.—Dr. Hall Davis relates a case in which retroflexion of the uterus was caused by lifting a heavy weight. It was successfully treated by keeping the bowels clear, by restoring the uterus to its normal position by the sound, keeping the patient prone on her stomach, and cold-water injections. ('Lancet,' 1869.) Dr. Byrne's case of cure of retroversion and prolapsus of the uterus by operation is interesting. The subject had a child at seventeen.