PERI-UTEIUNK DISEASES. •'377 case in which re-iuversion was successfully effected after incising the cervix. The subject of this case is now far advanced in pregnancy, a sexual result which cannot be expected after amputation. R. B.) ('Kichmond and Louisville Med. Journ.,' April, 1870.) Inversion, chronic.—Dr. Byford relates a case of inversion of the uterus treated by elastic pressure. The placenta was expelled, and luoinorrhage occurring, the uterus was grasped through the abdominal wall. Bleeding returned, and the uterus enlarged. Grasping it caused contraction again. She was much prostrated, but in twenty days rallied, and then got about. About five weeks after labour, when vomiting, she had tenesmus, and felt something come down, which she replaced, and a physician coming found an inverted uterus. Two months after this Dr. Byford applied a water bag in the vagina. On the fifth day the uterus had returned. The patient quite recovered. (' New York Med. Journ.,' 1870). (The mode of occurrence of the inversion is even more remarkable than the cure. Cases of inversion occurring many Jays after labour are so rare as to have raised doubts whether there was not error in the observation.—R. B.) A case of chronic inversion is related by Lawson Tait ('Obstetr Trans.,' 1869). It was reduced, after other means had failed, by sus- tained elastic pressure. The patient's condition seemed hopeless when the pressure was begun, and she died under symptoms of fibrinous deposit in the heart, forty-eight hours after reduction. Prolapsus.—& case of prolapsus titeri, ending fatally by dilatation of the ureters, and wasting of the kidneys, is related by Dr. J. J. Phillips (' Obstetr. Trans.,' 1870). He cites West, GoupiL Huguier, Virchow, and Kiwisch, as describing cystitis and hydronephritis as resulting from procidentia. His own case was that of a woman, a?t. 35, pluripara, having suffered prolapsus from birth of first child. Micturition had been difficult. The urine contained a large proportion of mucus, and an abundance of pus-globules. She died in a typhoid state, but the characteristic signs of typhoid were wanting. The pelves of the kidneys were much dilated, the tissue very much reduced, the pyramids quite flattened down; the ureters were so distended that the little finger would easily enter them. The whole of the urinary passages was filled with milky looking purulent urine. The walls of the bladder were hypertrophied. The uterus formed a tumour, the size of an apple outside the vulva. The ureters were found to descend into the bladder' so that then- orifices came under the pubic arch along with the fundus ol the uterus, and were there subjected to pressure. Peri-uterine Diseases are illustrated by the following: Bernutz gives ('Presse Med.,' 1870) an excellent memoir on . the diagnosis and treatment of phlegmon of the broad ligament, distinguish- ing this from pelviperitonitis. Through the connections of the cellular tissues with the pelvis and the uterus the involution of the uterus is arrested. The symptoms are to be divided into two periods; in the hrat pain marks inflammation, then there is a stage of rest, then the