REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. LOS ceeded to give the results of further researches. These show that the same effects may be produced by section of the cord at points higher up and nearer the pous; that the greater part of the cord takes an active part in their production; that the cerebrum, cerebellum, and pons, as shown by their removal in animals artificially rendered epileptic, have no share in them, the attacks continuing in spite of their removal. These phenomena were not met with in the case of dogs, cats, or rab- bits ; one cat only had shown them. In answer to Collin's assertion that the irregular convulsions obtained in these experiments differed from true epilepsy, the author maintained that the attacks produced in the guinea pigs were not only analogous to epileptic attacks in the human subject, but were proved to be truly epileptic by the fact that they might be hereditarily transmitted. Hardy contended that clinical experience was utterly at variance with the facts asserted by Brown- Sequard ; the brain rather than the cord was the seat of epilepsy in man, particularly in cases where the brain is pressed upon by a tumour, and more especially still if the latter be situate towards its posterior part or at its base. Brown-Sequard, after analysing numerous cases of cerebral lesion, had come to the conclusion that disease of the cerebral substance does not produce true epileptic symptoms, and that if these do occur, they probably depend on accompanying lesion of the meninges. He does not assert that the spinal marrow is the seat of epilepsy, but that, under the influence of certain lesions, it becomes the seat of a special modification, by virtue of which organic disturbances are pro- duced elsewhere, manifesting themselves in epileptic symptoms. He insists that he has found in his experiments the three principal charac- teristics of epilepsy in the human subject—loss of consciousness, con- vulsions, and intellectual torpor. Chauffard looks upon the convulsions as syndromata, Grubler as one of several forms of epilepsy. Brown-Sequard (ib.) observed two facts in guinea pigs after lesion of the restiform bodies ; haemorrhage, constantly, under the skin of the ear, and dry gangrene of the latter, occurring on both sides, though the lesion was only of one restiform body, but most marked on the injured side. He has also caused epileptiform symptoms by section of the sciatic nerve in these animals. He (' Lancet,' 1870, i, 2) concludes from further experiments—1. That nerve-fibres employed in making muscles contract, in fits of epilepsy, are quite distinct from voluntary nerve-fibres. 2. That these two sets of motor nerve-fibres do not occupy the same place in the spinal cord, the voluntary motor being more in the anterior (grey and white) parts of that organ, the others being chiefly in the lateral columns. He notes that this agrees with the fact proved by Charcot, that sclerosis of the lateral column is invariably accompanied by strong muscular spasms In a clinical lecture on two cases of epileptiform disorder, with peculiar phenomena, Handfield Jones ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, n, 111) draws attention to the liability of epilepsy to occur m modes which vary so much from the accepted types, that an experienced observer might very easilv mistake such cases for instances of some other disease. Uncon- sciousness, of longer or shorter duration, is one of the most constant phenomenk of epilepsy ; but it seems to be quite established that it is