484 REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. have recently attracted attention * and their use as a febrifuge is said to have been followed by the most beneficial results. Dr. F. W. Lorinserf gave a teaspoonful of a tincture, prepared with rectified spirit, for a dose in cases of pyaemia and tuberculosis. Dr. C. Haller* has used a similar tincture for ague. Prof. Franz Seitz,§ of Munich, has used the plant in intermittens and in typhus without any beneficial results. It remains to be proved, by further experiments, whether the plant really possesses the therapeutic value that many would assign to it. Copaiba.—We owe to Bernazik|| a highly interesting study of the physiological actions and therapeutical properties of balsam of copaiba and its active constituents. An ethereal oil and an uncrystallizable resin are alone to be reckoned among these latter. The resin is obtained by precipitating an alcoholic solution of the balsam with a lime salt, and is separated by means of alcohol as a heavy salt. The oil and the resin are present in different specimens of copaiba in varying relative amounts, so that the more fluid balsam (the so-called " Pata-balsam ") contained 48-2 per cent, of ethereal oil, along with 40-5 per cent, of resin, whilst the more consistent balsam (the so-called "Maracaibo- balsam ") contained only 39 per cent, of oil and 54 per cent, of resin; whilst a specimen, more than forty years old, and of a very tough con- sistency, contained only ia per cent, of oil. There is also in Maracaibo- balsam about 1 per cent, of a resin insoluble in alcohol; but in no kind of balsam did the author detect any crystalline resinous acid (Schweitzer's copaivic acid). Given to healthy persons, no difference could be detected between the action of the ethereal oil and oil of cubebs, since, with each, doses of about half an ounce produced similar results. These were— nausea, abundant eructations, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, difficult mictu- rition, and, after the first dose, increased frequency of the pulse, a rise in temperature of about one degree, greater fulness of the pulse, which, after the supervention of greater irritation of the intestinal tract, was followed by sinking of the pulse and great diminution in the tempe- rature of the body. After the administration of each of the oils the urine was at first clear, spite of the abundance of resin in it, and even after twenty-four hours had elapsed it deposited no sediment. The specific gravity of the urine was always high, and nitric acid caused an immediate turbidity, which increased, and, in twenty-four hours, gave place to a deposit of uric acid in the midst of a turbid and reddish-brown urine. The turbid portion passed through a filter, which, especially after large doses of the oil of copaiba, became of a deep rosy red colour. By exhausting with alcohol the filter along with the precipitated uric acid, a violet-red resin was obtained, no doubt having its origin in the oxidised oil, rendered impure by the presence of a small portion of the colouring matter of the urine. The amount of resin in the urine in- creased with augmented doses to a certain height, from which it as quickly fell after discontinuance of the oil, so that after thirty-six hours scarcely * Vide ' Year Book,' 1867-8, p. 474. f 'Wien. Med. Wchnschr.,' xix, 43, 1869, and xx, 27, 1870. X Ibid., xxvi, 25, 1870. § ' Bayer Aertz'l. Intell. Bl.,' xxiv, 1870. ]| ' Frag. Vrrljahrsschr.,' iv, p. 240.