AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVElf. 17 7 the axillary line, brought away only a little blood. Two clays later another puncture, two centimetres lower, gave exit to pus; and after making an incision through the skin and cellular tissue, which was filled with charpie for the purpose of obtaining adhesive peritoneal inflamma- tion, a bistoury was plunged in and gave exit to 250 grms. of a blackish pus, said to be " characteristic of hepatic suppurations." Pus continued to form for some time afterwards in small quantities. In the discussion which followed a suggestion of empyema was made. Vedreues ('Kec. de Mem. de Med. Milit.,' xxii, 329) gives a case of liver abscess which was opened, in a man, set. 24. It followed purulent infection from wounds of the head and hand. The patient recovered Peacock ('Trans. Path. Soc.,' xix, 243) contributes the case of a man set. 31, a discbarged soldier, in whom an abscess in the left lobe of the liver had burst into the right pleural sac, the opening between the two cavities, which were filled with a thick dirty vellow pus, beino- We enough to admit the whole hand easily. The*'lung was entirely com- pressed; there were several huge ulcerated spaces on its surface by which the empyema had found its way to the bronchi a month before e 1. j j C, dlsPlayed numerous ulcers over a large extent, some ot old date, others more recent. The patient had gone to India at the age of twenty-one, had led a regular life, and had suffered from attacks ot fever but no serious illness. Three days after landing in England he was attacked with diarrhoea, and was never entirely well afterwards Lyons ( Med. Press and Circ.,' 1869, i, 9) relates a case of abscess ot the liver m a woman, set. 56. The autopsy showed a large multilo- bular abscess m the right side (sic) of the liver, together with three others of considerable dimensions. Within three years he had seen twelve cases of the disease, in one only of which jaundice was present. loe new treatment of abscess of the liver employed by Blane (Lancet, 1869 "» 77, &c.) consists in the application of Vienna paste (Potassa c. Calce Ph. L.) between but not on the ribs. Of the foS cases given, m which it was employed successfully," the diagnosis S f (^tFa,Z77fmat0Usacute "trophy.-Leichtenstern('Zeitschr. LoverC''Tn''o XXXV1' 24I1 glV6S ^•°aSe of aCute "liver atrophy with recovery in a woman, set. 27. Five weeks before her admission into hospital she had four times vomited blood, and was sniZsed to l^e duln^XPSSi !CatTh' T Wrexia> and norm^ livers those u^allvTl . 8tr0Df17 C°lTed With bile> and the "tools were nassed tSf I in Jaundice. The icterus increased; the patient ffin^tSr" C°?diti0nS °f a?atbv> deliri™ depression ena'Z At ™ 7" °ut to be suialle1' thc ^en greatly enlarged. After five days she became better, but had another attack of 12