REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 30 themselves with the structure of the muscle of vertebrata. Accord- ing to Hensen, in the fibres of a muscle at rest every trans- verse stria may be seen to be divided into two halves by a dark line, to which he has applied the term median disc. There is, consequently, in muscle not merely an alternate arrangement of a strongly refracting substance, the transverse disc, and a feebly refract- ing substance, the intervening substance, but superimposed on one half of the transverse disc is a layer of feebly refracting substance, the me- dian disc ; then follows the second half of the transverse disc, and lastly, the intermediate substance. Krause, in a critique on this paper, denies the accuracy of the observations, and thinks the median disc is a pro- duct of manipulation. According to him the median disc of Hensen is the central portion of the dark stria become paler by the action of water, and rendered still lighter by comparison, in consequence of the places of contact between the dark or anisotropal substance and the light or isotropal substance becoming more marked. Both observers admit the presence of a fine line crossing the clear or isotropal sub- stance, as stated by Dr. Carpenter long ago. Montgomery* maintains, from observations made some years ago, that the transverse striae only appear in muscle during contraction, and that when at rest and extended they are absent. He considers that the process of contraction is dependent upon chemical changes, essentially similar in kind to coagulation ; and he thinks the nucleated plates in which the nerves terminate are secretory apparatus, the secretion of which induces the coagulation. Dr. Schmulewitsch, on the other hand,t finding that the elasticity of muscles is augmented by increased heat, whilst their capacity to perform work also and coincidently increases, believes that the essential role in the act of contraction is played by the constantly existing attractive force exerted by the molecules on one another. Th. Klunder X finds that the duration of the stage of latent excitation in muscle is 3tooths of a second, increasing with greater weighting and exhaustion to above o*oi of a second. Schenk § has analysed various specimens of muscle, and finds con- siderable variation in the amount of nitrogen present, so that mean or average numbers are of little importance—a point worthy of special notice on the part of those making experiments on nutrition and the metamorphosis of tissue. Nasse|| corroborates the statements of Limpricht and McDonnell that glycogen is a constituent of muscular tissue, finding it constantly in the muscles of frogs in the proportion of from 3—5 per 1000, and in those of rabbits in the proportion of from 4—5 per 1000. No sugar exists preformed in muscle. During rigor mortis and muscular acti- vity the amount of glycogen diminishes and of sugar augments. In another series of experiments he finds a solution of common salt con- taining o-6 per cent., as that which most favours the preservation of muscular irritability. M. Becquerel,^[ in an important paper presented to the French Aca- * • Centralblatt,5 1870, p. 161. t ' Centralblatt,' No. 39, 1870. t ' Arbeiten aus der Kiel. Physiol. Inst.,' p. 107. § ' Sitz. d. Wien. Akad.,' lxi. || < Pfliiger's Archiv d. ges. Physiologie,' ii, p. 97. IT 'Comp. Rend.,' Jan. 10, 1870.