AFFECTIONS OF THE PANCREAS. LSI substance resembling boiled white of egg, which, placed in water, was evidently made up of a number of conjoined layers, without any appear- ance of organization, evidently the debris of an hydatid cyst. At the autopsy, in addition to the other changes, such as marked narrowing of the mitral orifice, the spleen was found to be hollowed out into a vast cavity, containing a thick, dark coloured fluid, with darkish-brown flocculi. The walls of the cavity were made up partly by the pancreas, the cellular tissue surrounding the kidney, and the gastro-splenic epi- ploon. The lower lobe of the left lung was closely adherent to the dia- phragm, but no trace of any perforation by which the cyst must have emptied itself into the bronchi could be found. Wilde (' Deut. Archiv,' viii, 116) also gives a case of hydatid tumour of the spleen in a girl, set. i r, which was tapped. The tumour reached three fingers' breadth to the right of the linea alba, and from a point in the latter, half way between the umbilicus and pubis, to another half way between the former and the ensiform process (17 cm.). Guyot (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1870, 369) records a case of fibro-cartilagi- nous myxoma of the capsule of the spleen, in a man, set. 44. The patient had had intermittent fever in Africa at the age of 23, and typhoid, from which he recovered very slowly ten years later. On admission there was a swelling in the left hypochondrium, which had rapidly increased during the six months since it was first observed. After death the tumour was found adherent_to the neighbouring organs, of a greyish-yellow colour and gelatinous' consistence. On cutting deeply into it the spleen was seen of normal colour, slightly softened, and covered by some remains of its capsule, enclosed in the gelatinous' tissue like a nut in its shell (enchatonnee). Under the microscope the elements of the tumour were found to consist of a thick resisting fibrous network, enclosing mucus or mucous tissue, and fusiform and stellated cells, some of them anastomosing. Prom the superabundance of mucin, the presence of fibrous tissue, and cartilaginous elements, Guyot looks upon it as a growth of the above description. A few other cases, of no special interest, may be found in the ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xix— xxi. Affections of tie Pancreas. Cameron ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, ii, 491) gives a case of schir- rhus of the pancreas in a man, set. 44. The gland was five times its normal size, and consisted of a hard cancerous mass, firmly adherent to the stomach. The latter was invaded posteriorly and inferiorly, and different parts of the intestine as well. Hamilton ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 349) showed to the Dublin Pathological Society the pancreas from a man, set. 56. The head of the organ was one mass of schirrhus; its duct was dilated and varicose. The tumour formed by the cancerous growth pressed on this duct, the common bile-duct, and the superior mesenteric vein. The affection was confined to the pancreas. Riga), " Hypertrophic du Pancreas ayant produit une Compression de la Veinc-cave