EXCISIONS Of JOINTS FOR GUNSHOT. ;i01 Hannover. It appears that during the war between Germany and Denmark, in 1864, as many as eighty resections of joints were performed by the Prussian surgeons. All, with one exception (a resection of the knee), were resections of the two large joints of the upper extremity. Thirty-two of the operations were in Germany, and forty-eight among wouuded Danes. The latter came at last uuder the observation of Danish surgeons, as pensioners, having to obtain certificates once a year. One of the members of the Pension Committee is Prof. Han- nover, and he gives au account of what he saw as to the results of the excisions. He shows that the sanguine reports of the Prussian sur- geons (which are reprinted) were in no respect confirmed after five years of observation. He states that, iu the majority of instances, the pa- tients reported to be cured were left with useless, dangling limbs, and that the Danish surgeons, as well as the patients, both agree that am- putation would have been preferable, for it would have saved the latter from being burdened with limbs which are not only cumbersome and powerless, but also sources of frequent pain. Atrophy of the extre- mity, coldness, numbness, contractions, are among the other unfavorable conditions brought to notice in these cases. The reviewer suggests that " some of the unfavorable conditions noticed in Prof. Hannover's cases naturally lead to the inquiry whether important nerves may not have been injured at the time when the wounds were received ; for, if so, they cannot be accepted as having been fit cases for the operation' of resection." "One successful instance is sufiicient to annul a general condemnation of the operation itself." "A number of unsuccessful results after resection prove little as to the inefficiency of the operation itself, as the absence of success may be due to many causes, while one successful case proves, by obvious facts, the intrinsic value of the opera- tion, as compared with total removal of the extremity by amputation." "It is the first time that the final results of so many instances of re- section of the shoulder and elbow, occurring together, have been so critically and fully examined." In the 'Med.-Chir. Eev.,' 1871, is a detailed abstract of Dr. Han- nover s conclusions from a paper of his, in the ' Archiv fur klin Chir ' xu, H. 2, 1870. In a work by Dr. P. Loeffler ('Die Enthiillungen des Herrn Prof Hannover uber das Endresultat der Resectionen des Schulterund Ellen- bogen-Gelenkes') it is shown that Dr.Hannover has relied on certificates from Danish surgeons, given to show that the patients were in need of relief. Other independent witnesses gave very different accounts. The same attention may not have been paid to the cases, it is hinted, in the alter-treatment in Denmark as in Germany, where the patients are sent to watering-places, and electric currents and gymnastic exercises used. ( Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 28, 1870.) Treatment of gunshot wounds toith chloride of zinc.—Mr. De Morgan advocates the use of chloride of zinc. In recent wounds, where the skin is not much thinned, he uses a solution of from thirty to forty grains to the ounce of water. This is used freely, especially in the crevices of the wound and the cavities of bone, till the surface is creamy.