EBPOBT ON SURGERY. reference to excision. He is of opinion that the disease, once established, is practically incurable; that is to say, that we have no means at our disposal, at present, of permanently getting rid of cancer. " The mass itself may be cut out or otherwise completely destroyed, and the patient may be for a time, for years, apparently free from all disease, but, at length, it will return and gradually destroy life. Cases may be quoted, and, indeed, are recorded, in which cancer of the breast has been removed by operation, and has never, even in the course of many years, returned ; but however interesting and instructive such examples may be from another point of view, they have, practically, no bearing upon our decision in any case submitted to us for an opinion. If sucli instances of complete cure could be thoroughly sifted, they would turn out, to say the least, to be very few indeed. All cases are not cancer that have been described as such ; but even accepting the record as it stands, it cannot materially affect our calculation of the result. We may recall such for the encouragement, if need be, of our patient, but in our judgment, we can give no appreciable weight to them." An operation, however, may remove all traces of the disease for a time, and so prolong life. About this fact there can be very little doubt. In speaking of the danger of the formidable operations sometimes neces- sary as regards size, he says that " I remember that Sir W. Lawrence was wont to point out how much depends on the extent of skin which it is necessary to remove. If enough of that can be left to allow the edges to come easily together afterwards, so that the large surface exposed in the operation can be covered, and nothing but a simple line of iucision left, the danger is very much diminished. He thought far more of the extent of wound left open and exposed afterwards than of the amount of structure removed at the operation." "There are, unfortunately, strong grounds for believing that germs of the disease exist among the tissues wide of anything we can detect in the way of tumour, so that, after we have removed every suspicious particle, it is only too probable that there are still left behind the seeds of future growth. There is one fact that has often struck me as very significant in this respect. "When the disease returns after the breast, which was apparently the exclusive seat of it, has been entirely removed, it comes back, as a rule, not in the same structure on the opposite side, not in the other breast, but in structures immediately adjacent to the original site." Mr. Savory is in favour of the constitutional character of the disease. He does not rely on any other treatment than that of excision. He would recommend removal, even in cases probably considered improper by other surgeons, as, if an operation does not cure nor prolong life, it may make death easier. If all the visible disease could be removed without much more than usual danger, even if there were enlarged glands, provided they were passive, if the patient be anxious for an operation, and understood the risks, he would not decline ope- rating, for all the evils likely to follow are less, in his opinion, than those which an operation is the only means of removing. In a paper on certain causes of mammary cancer the late Mr. C. H. Moore brings forward cases to show that uterine irritation may be one cause. In conclusion, he remarks—" There appears to be reason to con-