TOltSION. 205 23rd, 25th, and 42nd days, arrested each time and finally by tourniquet. Two' patients died, and a post-mortem examination showed that the arteries had been firmly compressed, and that coagula existed on the cardiac side, blocking the arteries completely. There was no extrava- sation between the flaps. In the 'Lancet,' Jau. 1, 1870, is a note of three cases of removal of the breast, in which acupressure was used by Dr. Pirrie. The first case was cured in seventeen days, the second in twelve days, and the third (one of very large tumour) in fifteen days. The needles were removed in ei»ht hours in the second and nineteen in the third case. Mr. Forster relates his further experience of acupressure and torsion in sixteen cases, under the care of himself or colleagues. " During the last two years I have," he says, " in no case used a ligature where any attempt has been made to obtain adhesion in a wound, nor where I have been able to practice torsion." (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' xiv, p. 165 ; also ' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iii, p. 55.) Torsion of arteries.—A paper on this subject, with illustrations, will be found in the ' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' xv, p. 285, by Mr. Bryant. He thinks that the artery should not be twisted so many times as is generally done. The internal coat becomes too much split up and not valvular as it should be. This is especially the case with diseased vessels, which should be twisted twice only, as a rule. Small vessels mav be twisted till the end comes off without bad results; but it is daugerous to do this with the larger ones. Mr. J. D. Hill tabulates the results of his use of torsion in the arrest of haemorrhage. ('Lancet,' Nov. 5, 1870.) Dr. G. M. Humphrey writes on torsion of arteries in the ' British Med. Journal,' Jan. 2Dd and Jan. 9th, 1869. In some experiments on the dead subject, he found that a healthy artery, when twisted, will bear, on the average, a pressure of about twelve inches of mercury; a vessel, after ligature, a pressure of thirty inches. An artery is generally subjected during life to a pressure of about six iuches of mercury, so that torsion is sufficient for vessels of the size of the femoral. In the 'Dub. Quart. Journal,' Feb., 1869, Mr. Porter suggests the use of an artery compressor in the treatment of some surgical aneurisms. It consists of a piece of silver wire about the strength of an ordinary probe, which is bent into a triangular shape about four inches in length, and the apex surmounted by a small ring. The base is perforated by two little apertures just large enough to permit a fine wire to pass easily through. The wire is first carried round the denuded artery in an aneurism needle, and each extremity of it passed through the holes in the compressor; one end should be fastened by twisting it through the ring at the top, and the compressor may then be gently pushed down on the vessel, when by pulling at the free end of the wire, the requisite pressure may be effected. The instrument can be removed with the greatest facility, when pressure is no longer required, by cutting the wire at each side, lifting up the compressor, and then gently pulling away the wire from beneath the artery! Mr. W. Stokes details a case of temporary deligation of the abdominal