239 TETANUS. pidity with which the convulsions spread from one group of muscles to the other, are of bad augury. When, shortly after the first warnings, the neck gets stiff, the teeth cannot be separated, and when the con- vulsions, soon after, reach the trunk and extremities, and the tonic spasms change into chronic, the patients usually die. On the contrary, there is more hope of recovery when the mobility of the neck is only slightly interfered with, when the difficulty of opening the mouth increases slowly, when, to the affections of the muscles of deglutition and mastication either no general convulsions supervene, or the muscles of the trunk and extremities suffer only at a late period and moderately. The time the disease lasted varied in Busch's cases from twelve days to a month. Demme treated twenty-two cases with curare, eight of which recovered; Busch eleven cases, five of which ended fatally. Of the six which recovered, one owed it more to morphia, given subse- quently to the curare, than to the latter. In very acute attacks Busch thinks it of no use to try curare j he treated his first nine cases with morphia and inhalations of chloroform. He had one remarkably bad case where a quarter of a grain of morphia was injected every two hours, and the patient recovered contrary to all expectation. The mode of exhibiting the curare was by subcutaneous injection; ^th to ^th of a grain of the pure article will suffice injected every two hours. The eleven cases are related in which this was done, and the post-mortem appearances given in some. The author refers to the experiments of Humboldt, Brodie, and Yoison, made on animals j to the treatment of tetanus in horses with curare, by Layell (1810-12), and its first use in men by Yella (1859). The physiological effect of curare is paralysis of the ends of the nerves in the muscles j by this the electric currents are impeded from reaching these muscles.^ It seems that the peripheric ends of the nerves get earlier paralysed in these muscles affected with electric tension than in those not affected with tetanus. The'improve- ment of the patients is attested by the decreasing intensities of the convulsions. The patients themselves urgently requested the exhibition of the remedy, as soon as they became aware of an imminent spasm by the increased rigidity of the muscles. The author considers it desi- rable to employ for the future the efficient component part of the remedy—the cwrarine. Sulphate of curarin was exhibited at a subse- quent meeting of the society (Rheno-Westphalian Association for Natural History and Science), by Dr. Preyer. ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869,1, 474.) Division of nerves.—Dr. Ogle continues his narration of fatal cases of tetanus, both traumatic and idiopathic, in the 'Med.-Chir. Review,' April, j. With reference to divisions of nerves he mentions that Mr Lee JTr wnf P08terior tibial nerve in one case and the median in another. # Mr. Wilkinson, of the veterinary department of the army, has recently informed me that in the case of horses they scarcely ever find division ot the nerve produce any good in traumatic tetanus. Cases owing to cold, &c, are often saved, but not so traumatic cases. Traumatic tetanus m the horse is, however, recovered from. Several such cases are recorded, for example, by the late Mr. Field, veterinary surgeon,