REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 420 thropomorphous apes is very decided. The Malay pelvis is characterised by its delicate osseous structure, the strong inclination of the ossa innominata outwards, and especially by the small difference between the conjugate and transverse diameters, the transverse, however, still being the longer. If the Chinese pelvis be compared with the Euro- pean pelvis, a difference can hardly be found; the resemblance is striking; the conjugate in the European is, however, a little longer. The Papuan pelvis is much smaller in all its dimensions than the Euro- pean, excepting only the conjugate ; and the whole pelvis is lighter. Von Franque makes the general observation that the size of the pelvis appears to increase from south to north, and, on the other hand, that in the southern races the conjugate increases in its proportion to the transverse diameter. The memoir contains full descriptions of the pelvis and measurements of every part. It has only been possible to abstract those of the brim. It concludes with some observations upon the peculiarities of labour in different races. These consist of quotations from travellers, &c, and are wanting in precision. The fcetal head in the different races must, of course, be studied in reference to the form of the corresponding pelvis. TJpon this point there is little information. Vrolik says the Javanese bear easily because the foetus has very little occiput. Struthers remarks that Esquimaux women have easy labours for the same reason. Hoemorrhage.'—The source of haemorrhage is illustrated by a case related by Mr. Houghton ('Obstetr. Trans.,' 1869). The subject was eight months pregnant, when she suffered a fall. Violent haemorrhage immediately set in, and destroyed her in forty minutes. The source was not clear; it was conjectured to be from a ruptured varix. The case is instructive as proving how rapidly fatal haemorrhage may be under lesion of the turgid vessels of pregnancy. Dr. Graily Hewitt describes an unusual cause of haemorrhage (op. cit.). Peritoneal adhesions on the surface of the uterus prevented the organ from contracting and casting the placenta. Dr. P. Miiller, of Wiirzburg, relates ('Scanzoni's Beitrage,' 1870) three cases of haemorrhage from rupture of the anterior margin of the vulva, between the clitoris and meatus urinarius. All the subjects were primiparse, and the presentation cranial. The importance of the ob- servations lies in the severe haemorrhage, in one case fatal, which is liable to attend this injury, and the source of which may be overlooked. In all the cases there was perfect contraction of the uterus, and no injury elsewhere. Hence the indication under similar circumstances to inspect the parts by the eye. Great difficulty was experienced in stopping the bleeding. It persisted in spite of compression: an attempt to close the spot by two curved needles was frustrated; plug- ging was at last resorted to by cramming the vagina with sponges, and extending them to the rima pudendi; and to prevent these being driven out by coughing, he ran two sutures through the labia majora. The bleeding never stopped until these sutures were drawn tight. On the third day, the plugs were disturbed to pass the catheter. There was no more bleeding. On the fourteenth day, the seat of the rent was an oval granulating red wound-surface. Patient was profoundly anemic, but