EAR. 25 discrimination of the taste. In each instance a standard solution was prepared, with which sometimes stronger sometimes weaker solutions of the several substances were compared. It was found that with a difference amounting to 2*5 per cent, between the standard and trial solutions correct answers were given in 53 out of 100 experiments. AYhen the difference amounted to 10 per cent., 80 per cent, of the answers were accurate. "With quinine and commpn salt the sensitive- ness to variation increased with increasing concentration, but the opposite obtained with the others. EAR. Professor Eudinger, of Munich, has published a beautifully illustrated work on the minute anatomy of the ear, in which he gives the results of his investigations on the mode of termination of the auditory nerves in the ampulla? and sacculus. He describes the nerves as entering the ampullae by perforating the basal membranes on their floor, and thus reaching the epithelial layer with which they are lined. The epithelial layer, which is transitional in form in the greater part of the circumference of the ampullae, becomes remarkably increased in thickness at their base; and here two principal varieties are found, one of obtuse cylindrical form, the other spindle-shaped and ciliated. The former are of the nature of supporting cells, the latter appear to be the real terminations of the nerves; for on tracing the nerves into the epithelial layer they are found to form a plexus, with swellings at the points of intersection and elsewhere, and from the plexus fibres are given off that penetrate the fusiform cells, and when acted on by perosmic acid may be traced as a black stria running through each cell to the nucleus, and from thence onwards towards the periphery, where it appears to be continuous with the cilium, in which each of these cells terminates. Prof. Eudinger* has also given a description of the vascular supply of the ossicles of the tympanum, whilst Dr. J. Kessel t gives the nerves and lymphatics of the tympanum. TACTILE SENSE. MM. Arloing and Tripier,J from experiments on the effects of sections of nerves relatively to the state of sensibility of the skin and peripheric extremity of the nerves, arrive at the following conclusions:—(1) The sensory fibres are not quite so functionally independent as has been hitherto believed. (2) The reciprocal dependence of the sensory nerves of any region is such that if one of them be divided the peripheric extremity possesses recurrent sensibility, like the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. (3) The existence of a cutaneous nervous plexus is phy- siologically demonstrated by the conditions under which this recurrent sensibility is exhibited, which, they think, may influence practice. These experiments were principally made on dogs, certain branches of the radial nerves being exsected, and yet sensibility was found not to be lost in the digits supplied. MM. Kottenkamp and TJlrich§ undertook, at Virordt's suggestion, a * ' Centralblatt,' 1869, p. 355. t 1869, p. 356 and 369. X ' Comptes Rendus,' 1869, p. 547. § ' Zeitschrift fur Biologic,' vi, p. 37.