1,10 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. having proved the value of this practice. When the head is movable above the brim, labbri advises turning ; Marchant savs the forceps ma7 still be tried when the contraction is at seventy millimeters, although the prospect is not so good. He then discusses minutely the question ot turning, disputing the objections of Joulin. He cites a remarkable memoir by Dr. Eoger from the ' Annales de la Soc. de MeU de Gand.,' 1868, who gives 106 labours—histories of 25 women with pelvic con- traction to five or six centimeters. The following were the results : in 62 cases version only was practised, giving 43 living children; the forceps used nine times brought 9 dead children. In 9 cases labour was completed by turning after forceps had failed, 3 children being saved. When the smallest diameter is from seventy to forty-five millimeters, here forceps, lever, and turning are useless, and should not even be tried ; embryotomy or Caesarian section offer sole means. As to Cassa- rian section, he says, the physician is bound to prefer embryotomy if the mother demands it; he is bound to assist her. Perforation simple is insufficient below sixty-five millimeters. Three means of craniotomy exist—cephalotripsy, diaclasia, and sawing. He extols enthusiastically what may be called the Belgian method, that of "Van Huevel, by the forceps-saw. (But it is difficult to be carried away by this enthusiasm so far as to hope that the forceps-saw can ever be applied to extreme cases. The blades require at least as much room as the ordinary forceps, whilst a good cephalotribe requires less, and the reporter's wire ecraseur can work through the merest chink that will admit the finger to guide it.—E. B.) Marchant then discusses symphyseotomy, and argues in favour of it. Dr. Hennig calls attention to the not infrequent projections formed behind the symphysis pubis by the eversion of the ossa pubis at the line of junction. This mostly happens in rachitic subjects, and may lead to dystocia. Hennig relates three examples. In one, he says, the excrescence disappeared during childbed. Contribution to the knowledge of narrow pelvis in labour. By 0. Martin. ('Arch. f. Gynakol.,' 1870.) Drs. Moers and Muck relate three cases of osteomalacia successfully recovered. The urine showed abundance of lactic acid. He used phosphate of lime, iron, and cod-liver oil. The two other cases ended fatally. The last was remarkable for the fact that, together with the osteomalacia disease of the bones of the trunk, the long bones, especially the femur and humerus, become greatly atrophied. ('Deutsch. Arch. f. Klin. Med.,' $ Bd.) Dr. Easbeuder describes ('Mon. f. Greburtsk.,' 1869) a case of Cajsarian section on account of osteomalacia. The subject was pregnant for the fifth time. Osteomalacia had begun in third pregnancy. Her dwelling was damp ; food, chiefly potatoes, coffee and bread. In labour, an endeavour was first made to open up the pelvis by the hand; this succeeded to a certain extent, but section became necessary. A living child was extracted, and the mother did well. Fasbender refers to other cases in which the pelvis was expanded by hand. It was stated on the authority of Dr. Levy, of Copenhagen, that osteomalacia was frequent