REPOET ON PItACTICAL MEDICINE. Waters (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, ii, 612) read a paper before the Med. and Chip. Society founded on the results of treatment in tfa consecutive cases under his caro in hospital, all, with the excep- tion of two, males. One case was under ten years, 7 between ten and twenty, 25 between twenty and thirty, 12 between thirty and forty, 7 between forty and fifty ,and 1 between fifty and sixty. One lung only was attacked in 44, both in 9. Of the former, the right lung was affected m 20, the left in 24. Of the latter, the left was most involved in 6, the right in 1. The average duration of 41 cases in which the com- mencement could be ascertained was eleven and a half days. One case only died. Venesection was not practised; 3 only were cupped and 2 only had leeches applied. Antimony was given in 20 cases in small doses; beef tea, milk, and alcohol, were ordered freely. The author gives a general summary of his opinions on the treatment. He believes that mild counter-irritation is useful in the early stages, and blisters frequently in the latter. Welch (ib., 669) gives a summary of 52 cases occurring in the winter of 1866-67 in a regiment stationed at New Brunswick, North America; the ages were between seventeen and thirty-four; the right lung was involved in 21, the left in 16, and both in 15. Of the single affection, one lobe was attacked in 32 (19 right, 13 left), two thirds in 3 (1 right, 2 left), and the whole lung in 2 (1 right, 1 left). Of the double pneumonia, the disease was limited to the lower lobes in 13 ; in 2, both fatal, the whole of the right and the greater part of the left were in- volved. The average duration from the first symptom to complete recovery was 17-2 days. The treatment employed consisted of cupping, diaphoretics, narcotics, and free administration of fluid nutriment and alcohol. Gros ('L'Union Med.,' 1869, viii, 172) publishes 4 cases, 3 in children, in which he obtained complete success by the administration of alcohol in the form of sherry, brandy, Frontignan, and Madeira. In all the cases it was given when the pulse was very feeble or not to be felt, and the patients more or less cyanosed. Balfour (' Lancet,' 1869, i, 494) records 3 cases of pleuro-pneumonia in which, in addition to a mixture containing ipecacuanha and opium, an emulsion of one drachm of chloroform and seven drachms of olive oil was given every four hours. He holds that it diminishes the pyrexia and pulse, but does not relieve the pain, for which reason he orders the former draught. Zuber and Hirtz (' Bull. Gen. de Therap.,' t. 76, p. 468) give two cases of pneumonia treated with veratrum viride, in doses of one centigramme hourly, or thereabouts. In both the pulse, respiration, and temperature fell simultaneously. Hirtz (ib., t. 77, 289) holds that digitalis is particularly indicated in pneumonia in the purely inflammatory fever, with a temperature of 39-41° O, a frequent pulse, and in strong and young subjects. It is well supported by children, women, and persons of advanced age, if they are not debilitated. He does not exclude other methods of treat- ment ; bleeding he considers indicated in imminent asphyxia and extreme congestion ; veratrum acts quicker than digitalis, especially on