REPORT ON SURGERY. 248 hospital. After twelve years' good health he was again admitted (under the care of a physician) with typhus fever, of which he died, and the specimen was then ohtained. It shows an obtuse bend forwards in the upper lumbar region. The body of the second lumbar has been crushed, and, at its anterior border, is not more than half its normal thickness; anchylosis between the first and second has occurred. (' Med.- Chir. Eeview,' Oct., 1869.) A specimen showing dislocation of the first and fracture of the second lumbar vertebrae, from a patient who survived three and a half years, is described and figured by Mr. W. Wagstaffe. (' Path. Trans.,' xxi, p. 327.) Dr. Bennett narrates a case of fracture of the third lumbar vertebra, from direct violence, without the spinal canal being encroached on. ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' Feb., 1869.) Concussion, Sfc, of the spine.—In an article on the effects of injuries to the spinal cord, by Mr. Savory, is narrated the case of a man who had fallen on to his head from a railway van. In the first few minutes he was stunned, but this soon passed off. When admitted he had com- plete loss of motion and sensation in the lower and upper extremities, and in the trunk nearly as high as the clavicles. The respiration was entirely diphragmatic, the walls of the chest sinking inwards at each inspiratory effort. No reflex action of the lower extremities or else- where could be excited. The pupils were moderately and equally dilated, but sluggish. There was partial priapism. He died in about thirty hours. There was no fracture or displacement of any portion of the skull or spine, neither was there haemorrhage or material congestion of any portion of the surface of the brain or spinal cord. A longitudinal section of the cord disclosed, opposite the fourth cervical vertebra, a clot of blood, which was extravasated throughout its substance to an extent of about half an inch. This was well defined, and nothing wrong could be detected in the adjacent or other portions of the cord. Here, then, the two great functions of the cord were struck out, for not only was there complete loss of sensation and voluntary motion, but almost complete absence of any reflex action. And it is clear that while the loss of the function can, the loss of reflex action cannot be accounted for by the visible lesion—the clot of blood. The destruction or impair- ment of the function of the cord as a centre must have been due to the concussion, which, however, produced no effect upon the struc- ture, which was visible after death. (' St. Barth. Hosp. Hep.,' v, p. 45.) Two cases of trephining of the spine are narrated by Dr. Cheever (' Boston City Hosp. Rep.,' p. 577). The patient was a man aged forty, suffering from fracture of the dorsal spine. There was " not much apparent change" after the operation, but it is said "the inspiratory power of the intercostal muscles " was restored, and also " the trunk and thighs to sensibility." The chest was injured. In the other case the symptoms were not relieved. Spina lifida.—Uv. Thomas Smith describes ('Path. Trans.,' xxi,