EXCISION OP OS CALCIS. 215 the entire use of the foot. He has had one very successful case; the calcaneuin was removed in toto, and the child, who has since grown up, is now at school, with quite a new bone developed in the periosteal tissue. Removal of the os calcis.—M. Polaillon, Professeur-agrdge in the Faculty of Medicine in Paris, examines elaborately, in the ' Archiv Ge'ner. de Med.' for Sept. and Oct. 1869, the operation of excision of the os calcis. He collects notes of 55 cases, in which the results are known, 39 being successful, and 16 unsuccessful. Death was the direct result of the operation in 3 cases only; in 7 cases secondary amputa- tion was required, and was followed by death in a; while in 6 other cases the limb, left after the operation, was more or less useless. Polaillon sums up his remarks in the following conclusions. Extirpation of the os calcis ought to be a recognised operation, inas- much as it allows the preservation of a very useful part, both for stand- ing and for walking. The success of the operation varies, especially w ith the age of the patient. In children and adolescents it is successful in eight cases out of nine, and the results, as regards the subsequent utility of the limb, are excellent. In adults it fails in half the cases, and when it succeeds its results are less successful than in children. The foot, in fact, accommodates itself but imperfectly to the loss of the calcaneum at an age when the growth of the skeleton is completed. In cases of disease of the os calcis extirpation of the bone should always be preferred to amputation in children and adolescents, but in adults am- putation is the better operation. In the latter, a stump will generally furnish a more solid point d'appui than a foot deprived of the os calcis. It must, however, be borne in mind that the risk of death is much greater after amputation than after excision, and that in certain con- ditions the latter operation may procure a successful result with much less danger to life. "When disease of the hinder part of the foot obsti- nately resists treatment by rest and local applications, the surgeon should ascertain whether the os calcis alone is affected, or the disease extends to the neighbouring parts and to the ankle-joint, and in the former case the diseased bone should be extirpated. When the limits of the disease cannot be ascertained, either by methodical examination, by the amount or nature of the disturbance of functions of the part, or by the progress and history of the case, the idea of excision should not be abandoned. Every preparation having been made for the opera- tion, an exploratory incision should be made in such a way that the surgeon may either remove the os calcis, excise the tibio-tarsal joint, or amputate the leg. In cases of comminuted fracture of the os calcis by gunshot wound or other cause, with wound of the integument, extirpa- tion will probably be necessary, because the osteitis generally takes the form of caries. Before proceeding to operation the surgeon generally waits for evidence that the wound in the bone is not likely to heal by granulation. In caries of the centre of the calcaneum, not yet affect- ing the articular surfaces, the proper operation is removal of the whole of the diseased portions. In peripheric caries, attended with suppura- tion of the calcanean articulations, the bone must be disarticulated, and