98 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. one fatal case with cerebral symptoms, aud another in which there was intercurrent pneumonia, the temperature became normal between the second and seventb days; the mean duration of pyrexia being a little less than five days and a half. (3) Excluding again the two exceptional cases,' the total duration of the disease from the outset varied from seven to fifteen days, giving a mean of ten and a half days. (4) The earlier the iron was given, the shorter was the duration of the disease. (5) No headache or other symptoms of discomfort was produced by the iron. Da Costa publishes in the ' Pennsylvanian Hosp. Reports' an account of 30 cases of acute rheumatism treated with bromide of ammonium in 1$ to 20 gramme doses every three hours. Among these one case only of pericarditis occurred, and none of valvular lesion. Oppert ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, i, 273) gives the history of a sempstress, set. 19, in whom a moderately sharp articular rheumatism was complicated with pericarditis, and profuse ha3morrhage from the intestines and uterus, by which she lost, in the course of a week, over six pints of blood. Under the use of tinct. ferri perchlor. the haemor- rhage ceased, and the patient became ultimately well. Sutton (ib., ii, 347) observes on the difficulty of diagnosis, in some cases, between pyaemia and rheumatic fever, and gives in fall, with temperatures, the case of a servant girl, eet. 16, who presented for the first week at any rate the symptoms of the latter disease. Post-mortem was found the existence of pyaemia, starting probably from a deposit of pus, slough, &c, in the jejunum. He mentions a second case in which the same difficulty presented itself during life. r Desclaux ("De l'ascite rhumatismale," ' Bull, de l'Acad. de Med., xxxiv, 420) records the cases of two females, set. 50 and 60, who had suffered from acute articular rheumatism (?); one had general dropsy and ascites, the other only ascites. Both seem to have recovered under the use of quinine. Roget (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 220) gives the history of a healthy o-irl, a?t. 5, who suffered from acute rheumatic fever, without heart affection, but who died in the second of two attacks of severe dyspnoea occurring in one day ; the only thing found to account for death was a very large, hard, fibrinous, recent clot, filling up the right ventricle and auricle, and stopping at the orifice of the pulmonary artery. Another, but smaller clot, was contained in the left heart. After a careful perusal of the literature on the subject, especially ol the works of Roger and Tiingel, Ferber (" Die Nervosen Erschemungen im Rheumatismus acutus," 'Arch. d. Heilk,' x, 253) remarks that there is a want of truth in the general view that chorea, as a complica- tion of acute rheumatism, is confined to childhood, and cerebral dis- turbance to adults. He concludes (1) that both occur m connection with this affection in all ages of life, more frequently, however, in children (2) In children symptoms on the part of the motor system predominate, in adults of the emotional (psychical) In children chorea occurs mostly without emotional (psychical) mischiei, while m adults cerebral disturbance is more frequently met with without chorea. Both the chorea and the cerebral disturbance make their appearance