180 HEPOltT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. splenic tumours. The first was that of a boy, one year and eight months old, who during life had presented abundant purpuric spots on the skin, and had gradually wasted ; post-mortem the spleen was found, as diagnosed, curved upon itself, so that its anterior notched border looked upwards, and its inferior extremity projected across the abdomen to the right below the umbilicus. The blood from the hepatic vein contained a very marked increase in white cells. The child's twin brother was stated to have died of a similar disease. The second case was one of enlarged spleen from intermittent fever, in a man, aet. 25, without in- crease of white cells, the enlargement rapidly decreasing under large doses of quinine. The other cases consist of four of enlarged spleen with leucocythnsmia, in two men, set. 36 and 15, and two women, set. 34 and 40 ; another case of hydatid tumour in a man, »t. 38. Diagrams of the splenic dulness in the last six cases, aud a drawing as well of the general form of the tumour in the seventh during life, are given with the text. They seem to show, as the author point3 out, that the spleen, when enlarged, generally, though not, of course, in the case of abscess or hydatid tumour, has a tendency to curve into the hypogastric and right iliac region, and he directs attention to the fact that an enlarged spleen may be taken for an ovarian tumour. A case is quoted ('Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1869, 131) from Traube and Cohnheim, of sudden death from rupture of a series of enormously dilated veins of the spleen. The latter was enlarged and remained six inches in length by five in breadth and two in thickness. There were also a few similar varices in the right lobe of the liver connected with the portal vein. Balfour and Grainger Stewart publish (£ Edinb. Med. Journ., xiv, 1589) a remarkable case of ascites, with enlarged spleen and contracted liver. The portal vein was atheromatous aud varicose. The splenic vein was also atheromatous, aud presented several true aneurisms, some as large as pigeons' eggs. The spleen itself appears to have been healthy, excepting the dilatation of its vessels. There was extensive secondary thrombosis of the portal vein. Stein 4 (Virch. Arch.,' xlix, 136) found an enormous blood-cyst m the abdomen of a man, Eet. 44, connected with the spleen, which was small and atrophied, as also was the left kidney from its pressure. The cyst contained four to five quarts of liquid blood. It originated probably m rupture of, and gradual haemorrhage from the spleen, some years before. . Moxon (' Trans. Path.Soc.,xix, 155) records the case of a man in whom after death, the stomach and alimentary canal were found full of clotted blood, which had come from the splenic artery. The latter had been opened by a foul, sloughy cancer. No clot was discovered at the open- in°- but there was a patch in the spleen, with the usual appearance resulting from embolism, and a plug of pale fibrine in the arterial vessel feeding this part of the organ. , „ Duroziez ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1870, 386) gives the following case ot hydatid of the spleen, voided, during life, by the bronchi. A man, xt. 31, was admitted into hospital Oct. 8, 1850, with left hemiplegia and mitral insufficiencv. During his stay he spat up the debris ot a