208 REPORT ON SURGERY. Retraction of flaps.—Mr. Maunder notes that on one occasion, while amputating through the knee-joint, at the moment that the hamstring tendons were cut, the structures at the back of the femur became enor- mously retracted—to the extent of three or four inches—in a longitu- dinal direction. At first sight, it appeared to be necessary to make a higher section of the bone, but it was found that although the retrac- tion in the middle line could not be remedied, still the skin on either side was lax enough to allow of the flaps coming together in such a manner that a T-shaped instead of a linear wound resulted. The patient was a woman, and progressed uninterruptedly well. When dismissed the wound was T-shaped, not quite healed, and situated at the back of the condyles.—('Med. Times and G-az.,' July 2, 1870.) Lateral flaps.—Dr. Stephen Smith advocates the employment of lateral flaps in cases of amputation at the knee-joint. The incision is commenced about one inch below the tubercle of the tibia, and carried downwards and forwards over the most prominent part of the side of the leg until it reaches the under surface, when it is curved upwards towards the median line. "When that point is reached, it is continued directly upwards to the centre of the articulation. A second incision begins at the same point as the first, and pursues a similar direction upon the opposite side of the leg, and meets it in the median line on the posterior part. The following precautions are given:—The incisions should incline moderately forwards down to the curve of the side of the leg to secure ample covering for the condyles, and the internal one should have additional fulness, for the purpose of covering the internal condyle. The skin, fascia and cellular tissue are raised, and the ligamentum patellae divided, allowing the patella to remain. The ligatures are all drawn out of the posterior angle of the wound. When cicatrisation is completed the scar sinks into the inter-condyloid notch, and disappears from the face of the stump, and offers no point of contact with the artificial appliance. The drainage is good, and the anterior portion of the flaps unite by first intention. This method of amputation may be employed in any situation. The incision on the posterior part should reach as high as the point of division of the bone, and the muscles are divided circularly. The author speaks of having several times per- formed amputations at the knee, and frequently of the leg and thigh by his method successfully. Illustrations are given. (' Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1870, p. 33.) Amputation at the hip-joint.—Mr. Annandale has made some obser- vations as to the extent of surface exposed in amputation at the hip- joint as ordinarily performed, and also when the incisions are made lower down, as recommended by some. He finds that the flaps measure less in the plan usually adopted than by any other. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' April, 1870.) Amputation of the thigh, supra-condyloid.—Dr. Wm. Stokes read a