ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 341 experiment, first made by Scheiner, in 1619, by which an object, seen through two or more small holes in close proximity, forms a double or multiple image on the retina in case the retina is not placed accurately at the focus of the refracting media. Scheiner called attention to this in reference to the function of accommodation; Dr. Thompson shows how the same fact may be made to apply to the diagnosis of errors of refraction in general. He places before the eye a blackened screen perforated with pinholes one eighth of an inch apart, and views a gas- flame as an object. If the eye be in any sense ametropic the flame appears double; by putting a red glass over one hole, say the right, the red flame appears in hypermetropia to be on the left side, in myopia on the right side. The object is placed at a distance, and in hyper- metropia the accommodation must be relaxed. As Dr. Thompson re- marks, this method becomes of practical value in extreme amblyopia, where test-types may not be distinguishable. In such cases, however, we may form a diagnosis by aid of the ophthalmoscope. A. special case alluded to, in which there was considerable opacity of the lens, render- ing the ophthalmoscopic diagnosis uncertain, does afford scope for the exercise of Dr. Thompson's ingenious suggestions. But it is scarcely probable that they will be very often resorted to. In the second paper the method is more fully wrought out, and a simple rule of calculation is given, by which the distance of separation of the double images affords the means of deciding the degree of ametropia, and prescribing glasses. This is applied to astigmatism as well as to other refractive defects. The calculation is easy, and the elements are only those of simple proportion. A patient sits at five metres, about seventeen feet, from a gas-light turned low; he looks through two holes, in a disc placed close to his eye, which are 5 mm. in diameter, and 4 mm. apart. He sees two flames; the surgeon, placing himself by the gas-light, brings a candle-flame in a position coinciding with the false image, and measures its distance from the gas- flame. Take a case:—A patient operated for cataract saw the double lights 10 inches, or 250 mm., apart; his glass is obtained by the pro- blem— A 5000 x 4 0 - — = 80 mm. 250 The distance of patient from the object, namely, 5000 millimetres multiplied by the distance between the perforations, viz. 4 millimetres' and divided by the separation of the images he sees, gives the needful glass whose focal length is 80 mm., or 3-2 inches. The distance of the nodal point from the spectacle frame, which is half an inch, must be allowed for. That this method of determining ametropia will supersede the usual test-types and glasses the author does not expect, nor can it be con- sidered likely to have any great degree of utility, but we must commend the success of the endeavour, and the ingenuity of the devices op£y6(1 ^ 18' ^ rate' ^ intere8tinS Btudy in pbysiological Dr. Schobbens * has published the following table of reciprocals, * ' Ann. d'Oculistique,' Ixiv, p. 207.