REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 134 irritability of the nerve-cells in connection with the respiratory centre is very greatly lessened, so that it requires a much larger amount of carbonic acid to cause an inspiration than under normal conditions. He compares it with the results obtained by section of the vagus in the neck, concluding that, in consequence of the diminished irritability of the respiratory nerve-centre, the normal amount of carbonic acid can provoke no inspiration. To effect this, an abnormally large quantity is required, and to produce this quantity a much longer period of time than normal is necessary. From a case observed by him he concludes I, when a predisposition to this form of breathing exists in consequence of an organic defect of the heart, injections of morphia have power to cause the phenomenon immediately; 2, when this peculiar method of respi- ration is already in process, it may be increased by means of injections of morphia. The latter can evidently have no other influence on the respiratory nerve-centre but to lessen its irritability and so increase the influence of the deficient supply of arterial blood to the medulla oblongata. Choynowsky ('Virch. Arch.,' xlix, 387, &c.) maintains Laennec's theory (as generally accepted in England) of the mechanical explanation of bronchial breathing (respiratio laryngea) against Skoda's well-known theory of consonance. Bergeon ("Des bruits physiologiques de la respiration," ' Compt. Eend.,' t. 68, p. 431) gives the results of his experiments on animals on which tracheotomy had been performed. He concludes that the inspi- ratory murmur has a double seat, the glottis and lungs; the expiratory only one, the glottis; the former caused by the air-currents passing the glottis and in the pulmonary alveoli; the latter by the air break- ing against the superior vocal cords and the base of the epiglottis. This makes the expiratory murmur more intense than the inspiratory, formed only by a narrowed orifice. In a paper on the origin of the continuous rale, Baas (' Deut. Arch.,1 vii, 118) draws attention to what he calls the "post expiratory rale," which he observed in two cases, and which he considers to be pathogno- monic of a cavity. With Bergeon's paper may be compared Paul Nicmeyer's theory as to the origin of the inspiratory and expiratory murmur ('Deut. Arch.,' vii, 143). Mediastinal Tumours. Eiegel ("Zur Pathologie unci Diagnose der Mediastinaltumoren," ' \rirch. Arch.,'xlix, 193) collects thirty-six cases of mediastinal tumours recorded by different authors, reviews the general literature on the sub- ject, and gives, in full, a case occurring in the practice of Bamberger. He finds carcinoma and sarcoma most frequent. The growth of the tumours was variable, very frequently sudden and rapid ; most commonly they invaded neighbouring organs, seldom only displaced them. They were more frequent in males than females, in the pro- portion of 2-4 : 1. The majority occurred between the ages of twenty and thirty. Special symptoms were—absence of pyrexia; more or less