POISONING. 459 § ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxxi, p. 257. urine. 13. Applied externally it excites slight itching and redness only. 14. On section, mammals poisoned by conia exhibit no inva- riable appearances. Veratria.—Dr. Pegaitaz* bas experimented on dogs and cats with this alkaloid, which was administered by subcutaneous injection in the form of a solution of the tartrate, and finds: 1. That at first excite- ment is produced, then depression. 1, Next, salivation, nausea, vomit- ing, and generally also purging. 3. Uncertainty in the movements, firstly of the hinder, secondly of the fore limbs; and then rigidity of the limbs. 4. Increase in the reflex excitability and diminution of sensibility. 5. Gradual diminution in the temperature, and of the frequency of the pulse and respiration. 6. Convulsions and tetanus. 7. No signs of inflammation on post-mortem examination. The results differ in many important respects from the experiments of Oulmont.f Coal-tar colours.—Drs. Hermann, Eulenberg, and Hermann Vohl J jointly contribute a valuable memoir on the noxious and toxic influences of the colours prepared from coal-tar. Seeing that the greatest dis- crepancies have existed in the results of different observers as to the poisonous nature or inocuity of these colours, the authors deemed it necessary to investigate the following questions in the case of each separate colour: Has the dye been made from substances which are of themselves hurtful or poisonous ? In the purification of the dye has a certain portion of the hurtful ingredients, if any, been left behind through defect of manipulation ? Does the chemically pure material of itself act prejudicially upon the animal body ? Does the use of the dye demand mordants containing substances prejudicial to health, and do these remain behind in the fabric ? They conclude with regard to the aniline colours that they are never poisonous per se, but that their toxic qualities, when they have such, are due to the impurities (anihne and arsenic) left behind in the manufacture of the pigments. Coralline.—Considerable attention having been drawn to this dye, used for imparting a brilliant and fashionable colour to socks, as the cause of a peculiar eruption on the skin, it has received a searching investigation at the hands of MM. Tardieu and Roussin.§ They find that coralline is a more active poison when injected into the cellular tissue than when taken into the stomach, though in both cases it pro- duces fatal results in the higher and lower animals. Its effects are those of a drastic—pain, vomiting, diarrhoea, fever; and after death fatty degeneration of the liver and other organs, as is observed in phosphorus and arsenical poisoning. Locally, an eruption is produced very similar to that caused by croton oil. In the human subject the local effects from the use of articles of dress, such as stockings, socks, and flannel shirts, dyed with coralline, are chiefly observed, though in severe cases the constitutional effects have been occasionally noticed. I'ortunately, coralline, which is made from carbolic acid, is readily * ' Deur. Archiv. f. Klin. Med.,' vi, p. 156. -f- ' BOH. Gen. de Ther.,' lxxiv, p. 145 ; 'Year-Book,' 1867-8, p. 478. X ' Horn's Vierteljahrsschr,' xii, p. 300.