CHU0N1C BONE AND JOINT DISEASE. 275 the advocates of excision would recognise the results of experience, and not shut their eyes to those cases that tell against the operation, the point to bo settled being the period of the disease in which excision should be undertaken. As an operation of expediency, the author was inclined to think that excision may be, not only justifiable, but successful. Degeneration of the cartilage of the patella.—In the ' Path. Trans.' (xx, p. 260) tho results of some observations by Mr. Bruce,on the degene- ration of the cartilage of the patella, without other articular disease, are given. Prof. Eedfern figures and describes four similar conditions, but Mr. Bruce has found it present almost universally in the knee-joints of middle-aged people. To the naked eye the change consists of a yellowish discoloration, with loss of smoothness and production of fibrillation (best seen by placing the patella in water, when the fibrous bands will float out). The microscopic changes are those (shortly) of fibrillation and vertical splitting of cartilage. The earliest trace of cloudiness has been distinctly marked before the age of twenty-five, and the fibrillation very complete at thirty-six. The most marked examples have, however, usually been obtained from persons over forty- five. Yet at sixty-five the cartilages have been found in the early stage of fibrillation. The changes are degenerative, not inflammatory; the patella is the favorite seat, then the tibia. The arm is rarely affected. The hand and foot were not examined. Chronic lone and joint disease.—Mr. Howard writes on this subject in the 'St. George's Hosp. Pep.,' iv, p. 143. He thinks the greater number of cases of chronic bone and joint disease are quite unconnected with any of the other signs of scrofula (having neither the general appearance nor the pathological tendencies described by Jenner) ; so that it is not possible, with any correctness, to class them among scro- fulous affections, while the rarity with which they are associated with any formation of tubercle equally removes them from the class of tubercular diseases. " Of 134 cases of chronic bone and joint disease of which I took notes in the Hospital for Sick Children, in only 9 was there any sign of tuberculosis, and only 17 displayed other signs of scrofula ; in 24, some member of the family was said to have died or to be suffering from phthisis, but the child itself presented no sign of the disease; in 22, only, could any history of injury be elicited." "Of 85 consecutive cases admitted into the hospital for various tubercular affections, in only 1 was there any bone or joint disease." "Of 146 post- mortem records in which tubercle is noted, in only 8 was there any bone or joint disease found, viz. of spine, 1; of hip, 3 ; of spine and hip, 1 ; of knee, 2 ; of tibia, 1. Similar statistics are given from >St. George's. If these cases were tubercular in their origin, should we not expect that in some cases of acute tuberculosis we should find some sign of tubercle in the bones ? Such does not appear to be the case. If, on the other hand, they were usually connected with scrofula, should we find the operations upon these cases so successful ? There are some cases, however, which are the result of scrofula, and it is in these cases