CIIOItEA. \Qf Hughlings Jackson ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, i, 245), in answer to the argument often urged against the embolic theory of chorea that anaemia from plugging of the vessels can scarcely lead" to increased ex- penditure of force, quotes the experiments of Prevost and Cotard to show that hyperemia, &c, constantly follows after arterial obliterations. Steiner (' Der Praktische Arzt,' Nov. 9, 1869, quoted in the ' Prac- titioner ') refers chorea to spinal irritation from excess or defect of blood effusion of serum, or haemorrhages, or organic changes. In three autopsies there was found effusion into the central canal, and in one of them (complicated with rheumatism) the effusion was inflammatory. Of the 52 cases on which his conclusions are based, 40 were females, and all were between six and eleven years old. He regards four to nine weeks as the natural duration of the disease, but thinks relapses are common. He treats it with steel, with or without zinc, and, in obstinate cases, with arsenic. He draws attention (' Jahrb. f. Kinderh.,' 1870, 291) to an epidemic of chorea, and gives briefly the history of 19 cases, the youngest five, the oldest thirteen years, 18 of the number being females. He asserts that imitation had no influence in this epidemic, though probably there was a single cause for its existence. Bromide of potas- sium failed entirely, and the greatest success was obtained from the following mixture: Fowler's solution 8 drops, tinct. opii 6 drops, aq. destill. %iv, of which four tablespoonfuls were given in the twenty-four hours. Carville ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 669) notes the presence of general choreiform movements in a dog after opening the spinal canal in the dorso-lumbar region, which persisted in the whole body after section of the cord in the middle dorsal region. Chauveau, from an experiment of the same kind, had concluded " that chorea is only a morbid manifesta- tion of the reflex power of the cord." Eussell (* Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, i, 64) says that out of 99 cases of chorea, emotional development or mental disturbance was present in 38, the former much more frequently than the latter; and that in i< sleep was interfered with independently of the movements. He con- cludes that there is no necessary relation between the amount of motor and of intellectual or emotional disturbance. In six, however, the mental disorder was of a very serious nature, amounting to urgent delirium or violent mania, in one case terminating rapidly in death ; and he thinks that these six cases indicate two distinct methods in which delirium or mania may manifest itself in the course of chorea, either entirely subordinate to or independent of the motor disorder. The fatal case, and three illustrating the latter position, are given. Perl ('Berl Klin. Woch.' 1869, 351) gives the following case of chorea magna (Ch. germanorum). A man £et. 33 fell down unconscious, June 28, 1868, after a violent emotion, and was convulsed for ten minutes. Prom that time he had daily epileptiform attacks of uncon- sciousness, with irregular tonic and clonic convulsions, which were pre- ceded by an aura from the epigastrium to the head. These attacks numbered twenty-six in all. After them the patient lay quiet, and began to sing aloud for five minutes or so, reflex action being abolished. Gradually his features assumed an expression of madness: he had