REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 45G normally from the liver and intestines into this fluid, and are there oxidized this passage must take place in a greater degree in diseases in which the processes of oxidation are in abeyance, as they are here; and there must necessarily be an accumulation of these biliary constituents in the tissues, and elimination through the urine. If, simultaneously, stagnation of the bile occurs in the liver, the quantity of bile-pigment circulating m the blood must vastly exceed the oxidising capacity of the organism. He further states that iu two cases of phosphorismus not a trace of sugar could be detected in the liver; that the urine in such cases is rich in peptones and other nitrogenous extractives, and, as was first pointed out by Schultzen, in sarcolactic acid, whilst' only traces of leucine and tyrosine can be detected. In the urine of acute atrophy leucine and tyrosine are present in such quantity that the addition of acetic acid alone suffices for their detection, and a peculiar substance, oxymandelic acid (C8H804), which is characteristic of acute atrophy, is present, and appears to replace the sarcolactic acid met with in phosphorismus. Antidotes for phosphorus.—Dr. Edward Lichtenstein,* of Berlin, states that he has administered oil of turpentine successfully in doses of twelve drops, well diluted, in cases of poisoning by phosphorus. Kdhlerf has made similar observations. Prof. Bellini % contributes a long and valuable paper on phosphorus, having reference more especially to the antidotes to be employed. He thinks that the nitrate and the chloride of silver promise the best results. He states that phosphorus in the presence of nitric acid and of oxide of silver produces an insoluble compound of silver and phos- phorus, which is unaffected by weak acids, or by the acids of the stomach. He calculates that three grains of nitrate of silver are required for the neutralisation of one grain of phosphorus. Hence for an adult who has taken a poisonous dose of phosphorus (say three quarters of a grain), one grain of the nitrate would be requisite, a quantity of silver salt that may be taken with impunity. It is obvious, however, that the decomposing effect which the chlorides of the gastric fluid exert upon soluble silver salts must be taken into consideration in apportioning the dose of the antidote. Prussic acid.—Preyer,§ in an elaborate memoir on the physiological action of hydrocyanic acid, confirms Bezold's and Blobaum's observa- tion that atropine is a direct antidote for the acid. Rabbits, to which i-6oth grain, or more, of sulphate of atropine had been administered subcutaneously, and then a fatal dose of prussic acid, always survived. The acid likewise never proved fatal when the antidote was injected before the supervention of asphyxia. M. Roussin|| furnishes an able and instructive report on the exami- nation of the viscera of Jean Kinck, in the celebrated Troppman affair. No hydrocyanic acid was obtained by distillation of the viscera. The * ' Berlin Klin. Wchnschr.,' vii, 1870, p. 33. f Ibid., vii, 1870, p. r. I Quoted in ' Br. and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,' 1870, p. 25. § ' Vircliow and Ilirsch's Jalnesber.,' 1868, i, p. ^37. |f 'Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxx, p. 166.