REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. % ' Horn's Vierteljahrsschr./ xi, p. 69. 473 Dr Andrew Allison* contributes a paper on the diagnosis of death trom hanging We must refer our readers to the original memoir, as it is one which does not admit of any useful abridgment, but will repay a careful perusal. J Pregnancy. Dr. E. Strohlf draws attention to the signs of a previous pregnancy and delivery, and arrives at these conclusions :—That the os uteri may acquire considerable dimensions without any anterior pregnancy having occurred; that delivery may occur at the full term without causing any laceration of the os uteri; that pregnancy may go on to the full term of gestation and yet no abdominal seani3 be produced, and that seams may be met with on the thighs without any anterior pregnancy having occurred. Infanticide. Prof. Skrzeczka,J in writing on injuries to the skull in new-born chil- dren, states—(x) That the form of the edges of a wound in cases of injury to the skull of a new-born child does not determine whether the injury has been inflicted during life or after death. (2) When ex- travasation either over or under the site of injury is altogther absent, and the edges are pale, it must be concluded, if advanced decomposition do not preclude the formation of any opinion on the case, that the wound had been inflicted after death ; but intra- or extra-cranial extravasation at a distance from the seat of injury does not prove the infliction of the injury during life. (3) Post-mortem injuries to the skull may have red and bloody edges, and in these cases may also be associated with extravasation of blood beneath the periosteum at the seat of injury. (4) Destruction of the bony calvariutn, or extravasation inside the cavity of the skull, indicates that this condition has arisen post- mortem, but extravasations beneath the scalp are to be referred to the process of parturition. (5) That the injury to the skull occurred during life may be concluded (a) when there are coagula about the seat of in- jury and extravasation, although fluidity of the blood, on the other hand, in no way contradicts the supposition that the wound had its origin during life ; (b) when there is injury to the scalp with signs of vital reaction; (c) when there is extravasation of blood beneath the skin and the periosteum, and at the same time beneath the bones upon the arachnoid, and eventually into the brain itself, evidently in con- nection with the injury. (6) Large hematoceles with a single fracture of the bone beneath, especially when the bone is thin, point to an in- jury during delivery. (7) Simple fractures, without hajinatocele, may be explained by the fall of the child. (8) Fissures with more or less smooth edges are either post-mortem or occur during birth from the fall of the child. (9) Destruction of the skull with intra- or extra- cranial extravasation points to deliberate murder. The arguments of the paper are ably supported by reference to clinical cases. * 'Lancet,' 1869, i, p. 636. f ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxxiv, p. 141.