REPORT ON SURGERY. 202 cord. The distal thread was of fine catgut ("minikin gut.") Both had been soaked for four hours in a saturated watery solution of car- bolic acid which swelled and softened them, so that the home-made thread was too large to enter the eye of the needle except at either extremity where it was smaller. This ligature tied well, the other broke and a. Becond was tied over it. All were cut short except three quarters of an inch of one end of the catgut left to see what would become of it. The antiseptic precautions adopted were, that after shaving the hair carbolic oil was thoroughly rubbed in ; the sponges used in the operation were wrung out in a solution of the acid (one to forty), and all instruments, and fingers, and copper wire (for sutures) were dipped in it, and some was poured on the wound after the introduction of the last stitch, at one of the intervals left for the escape of any discharge. The outer dressing was a towel saturated with the oil, folded as broad as the length of the neck round which it was wrapped, so as to extend freely beyond the wound in all directions, and this was fastened on securely. A sheet of gutta percha was placed outside everything. A few ounces of the oil were poured daily over the towel for the first week, after which the dressings were left for three days, and then re- moved entirely. The stitches being removed one drop of pus escaped. Thirty days after the operation the calf was killed. On dissection there was an entire absence of inflammatory thickening in the vicinity of the vessel. On exposing the artery, at first sight the ligatures appeared there still as large as ever. On closer examination, however, it was found that they had been transformed into bands of living tissue, as the deeper layers of crust are, sometimes, in the treatment of compound fractures ant'iseptically (see 'Lancet,' March 16, 1867.) The persist- ence, in their substance, of the impurities of the original material ex- plained the resemblance to their former condition. Some change of colour had occurred. The two fine pieces had become amalgamated in one fleshy thread inseparably blended with the external coat of the artery. The knots were nowhere discoverable, and the only indication of the end which had been left long were some few black specks upon a delicate thread of connective tissue in connection with the vessel. The massive knot of the cardiac ligature was represented by a smooth lump which appeared at first entirely homogeneous, but presented some black spots similar to the other one. On section, however, in the interior were some remains of the original three-fold twist just in the centre of the knot. A slender and irregular remnant of the noose was also found lying in a sort of tubular cavity extending about half round the vessel. On microscopic examination the new fleshy mass created at the expense of the ligature was found made up of fibro-plastic structure, fibres and elongated cells. Between the two ligatures there was a clot, but between the proximal ligature and the heart the formation of co- agulum had been entirely prevented by a large vessel taking origin immediately above the part tied, which had thus borne for a month the full brunt of the cardiac impulse. Tet this part of the vessel appeared to have gained additional strength instead of being weakened as would have occurred without antiseptic precautions. At the distal end the artery had not been altered. The ligatures had been tied too gently to