DISEASES OE THE OVARIES. 385 ture and dropped into the belly. His cases, lie says, prove the conve- nience and safety of dropping the pedicle into the belly. Complete closure of the wound is obtained. The main condition of a successful issue is the resisting capacity of the constitution. (' Arch. f. Gyniikol.,' 1870.) Dr. JSoeggerath contributes an elaborate memoir, historical, critical, and practical, on the procedure for tapping ovarian cysts through the vagina. He places the patient on the edge of the fauteuil somewhat in lithotomy position, passes a curved trocar and canula to the most pro- minent part of the tumour and pierces the cyst. A curved bistoury, with a button at the end, is then passed through the canula, the canula is withdrawn sufficiently to allow the cutting edges of the bistoury to incise and enlarge the wound. Eemoving the bistoury, the canula is again pushed forward into the wound, and through it past the sound, which serves as a guide to the introduction of a tube into the cyst after the removal of the canula. The canula used in one case was a piece of elastic stomach tube, about ten inches long. This is retained in the wound to afford an exit to the contents of the cyst. Afterwards, Dr. ^oeggerath used a special tin canula of large diameter, having a self- retaining apparatus. Through this injections were made when the dis- charges were offensive. In one case the incisions made caused copious hemorrhage, filling the cyst, which had previously emptied. This was stopped by compressing the canula against the angle of the wound by compresses. In another case the haemorrhage was fatal. Dr. Noeg- gerath says the condition of the cyst-walls must be taken into account when we decide about the choice of a method of operating; if we admit that a cyst with thin walls will collapse more readily, it may, on the other hand, prove a source of danger from the spreading of inflamma- tion lighted up in the inner membrane to the peritoneum. Peritonitis has frequently followed the operation. Cysts containing fat, hair, or encephaloid matter, must be excluded from the operation. Colloid cysts, even if their contents be not thoroughly fluid, can be treated in this manner. In a case operated upon by Dr. Schrectter rapid lique- faction of the colloid matter took place after the operation. "When dealing with two or more cysts there is danger of twice per- forating the peritoneum, when decomposed fluid or gases would escape either from the upper or the lower cyst into the abdominal cavity. This accident is the reason why the operation of Keeamier, recently re- ported by Snow, must necessarily prove fatal. They passed a long curved trocar through the abdominal walls towards Douglas's pouch, and a second trocar into the cyst through the vagina, so as to meet the first. Thus two openings were established in the cyst, the lower one giving issue to the contents into the vagina, the upper one into the abdominal cavity. It is better to act upon one cyst only at a time. It 131 probable that by the collapse and destruction of the principal cyst obliteration of the vessels feeding the smaller cysts takes place ; hence they disappear by atrophy. The operation can only be performed in those cases where the cyst is distinctly felt through the vagina behind the nock of the uterus. The risk of hectic fever must be avoided by procuriDg the free evacuation of the contents of the cyst, and by alter- 25