307 N.EVOIU ELEl'llA.NTlASlS. receiving au impulse. The incision, however, removed this doubt, hut the question then remained as to its aneurismal character, a decided and distinct pulsation hecoming developed. The patient had been under observation for twelve months before the limb was removed. After dis- cussing the various views that have been held as to the nature of these tumours, he adopts, for his own, the designation of " arterio-venous, erectile tumour." A most detailed examination of the tumour, &c, by Mr. Howse, follows. It scarcely admits of reproduction here. A tumour was found on one of the digital veins of the dorsum of the foot, two inches long and three quarters of an inch broad, irregular in shape, lobate, and it communicated with the growth on the sole of the foot. Opposite the internal malleolus there was a small tumour developed on the wall of the internal saphena vein, three eighths of an inch in diameter, and similar in structure to the other tumours. The tumour in the sole of the foot was more or less separated into lobes. The walls of a branch of the external plantar artery seemed developing into small erectile tumours, as was noted with regard to the internal saphena vein. These growths had a knotted, serpentine appearance,were much thickened, and on section found to be clearly erectile tissue developing on the arterial walls. The larger growths consisted of trabecular spaces, into which both arteries and veins were found to empty freely. The tissue between the vascular spaces showed cavities filled with gelatinous or a more yellow structure. Striated and pale fibres were also found, which Mr. Howse thinks of great importance. In answer to the question from what structures the growth was originally developed, he says from the walls of both arteries and veins, and more especially in connection with the vasa vasorum, by a mere dilatation of which the vascular spaces. were in the first instance (probably) formed; the surrounding muscular elements undergoing a rapid hypertrophy and multiplication. As he regards the presence of muscular fibre in such a growth to be unique, Mr. Howse discusses its probable mode of origin at length. He con- siders it a development from the pre-existing involuntary fibre-cells of the vessel-walls. (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' xiv, p. 387.) Ncevoid elephantiasis.—Under this head Mr. Thomas Smith has described two cases in which there was great hypertrophy of one lower extremity with naevoid patches on the skin. Three illustrations are given. In the first case leg and foot were in a condition undistinguish- able from that seen in elephantiasis arabum. The skin over these parts was greatly thickened, rugose, very dense and hard; here and there the surface was studded with dense, fibrous tubercles like those seen in tubercular leprosy. A few very long and coarse hairs grew about the leg and foot. The foot was matted over with thickened integuments, so that only the toes and the extremity of the heel were visible. Bandaging was practised with benefits but the child died without known cause. The subcutaneous tissue was found greatly increased in quantity, and everywhere occupied by a dense, reticulate, spongy, venous tissue of a cavernous character. There were but few venous trunks to be seen, but everywhere a structure like erectile tissue. At the back of the limb there was an altogether abnormal