113 APHASIA. Aphasia. Bastian (< Med. Chir. Eev.,' xliii, 209) commences his paper with an luquiry as to the relations existing between the several forms of " loss of speech" in cerebral diseases, and attempts to explain the phenomena presented in the various classes by the doctrine of the physiology of spoken thought, according to which words are revived in the cerebral hemispheres as remembered sounds in an unconscious and automatic manner, calling into play, on the exertion of the requisite volition, the various muscles necessary for the articulation of sound. He gives the following table of the relations of the various forms of loss of speech to one another: Loss OF Speech. Ability to articulate unimpaired. Ability to articulate impaired. Wish to speak existing. 1. Absence of wish to speak, e. g. in some cases of insanity, and perhaps of hysterical aphonia. 2. Various forms of paralysis and incoor- dination of memory. Amnesic defects. 3. Memory existing, and words being - revived as remembered sounds, the mecha- nism by which these excite the automatic acts of speech is interfered with. Ataxic [^defects. 4. Slightly, from paralysis of ninth nerve, &c, in cases of hemiplegia, with or without co-existing " aphasia." f 5. In some severe cases of hemiplegia, Gravely. <j eithervvita or without co-existing "aphasia." J 6. Advanced cases of glosso-laryngeal [.paralysis. Of the second form, defects of memory, he distinguishes two subdi- visions; paralytic defects, shown by (1) momentary forgetfulness and contusion about names and nouns, with power of recovery after a time or more permanent and habitual forgetfulness, with attempts to remedy this b/*he employment of a periphrasis : (2), sudden and momentary loss of.the "thread of thought:" (3), inability to continue any train of thought at all after the slightest interruption ; and incoordinate defects, seen in (1) forgetfulness of the word wanted, most marked with respect to nouns, with a consciousness of mistake when the wrong one is employed : (2), the same forgetfulness without the consciousness of the last: the less associated the word or sound uttered is to the word which should have been employed, the greater probably is the impairment of memory: (3), recollection of the suitable words, which are uttered with- fnl^lPr°Per °J °/ se<luence: (4). ability to use certain verbal forms only, e.gthe infinitive mood only : (5), transposition, more or ess regular, of the letters of a word, 'e.g., gum for L9: (6) almost invariable substitution of certain letters for others, e g., z for/, instead of the name "amnesic aphasia" proposed by Sanders for these forms, Bastian would use "amnesia verbalis," or "amnesia" simply. ' Before commencing an analysis of the cases more especially included under the term aphasia, he draws attention to some of the phenomena involved m thinking and speaking, the consideration of which leads him 8