372 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. speaking on the subject, the dilatation takes place under the effort of the uterus to empty itself. (' Monats. f. Geb.,' 1869.) Diseases of the Uterus proper. Dr. Eouth describes funded endometritis, distinguishing this condition from inflammation of the body of the uterus. The symptoms grouped by G-ooch as marking the "irritable uterus" are those which Routh says are due to inflammation of the fundus uteri. He says he has met with four forms—convulsive, obstructive, chronic, and acute. Con- vulsive affections do not occur when the disease is confined to the body. Fundal endometritis is diagnosed from inflammation of the body by the pain which is felt in the first, when the fundus is pressed upon above the symphysis. He narrates cases in which mania attended the disease. The main treatment recommended is local depletion. (' Obstetr. Trans.,' 1870.) Dr. Whiteford relates a case of removal of an imbedded uterine fibroid. The patient was nearly exhausted by haemorrhages. Dr. Whiteford dilated the cervix by incisions and tents, then made an incision into the tumour, which projected from the anterior wall of the uterus. After some days, when the tumour had been a little driven down, it was seized by vulsella and dragged out, this operation lasting about two hours. The patient made a good recovery. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Feb. 1870.) Prof. Martin relates ('Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1869) a case in which he extirpated a myoma of the uterus ly abdominal section. The tumour was large, had grown quickly, was causing dysuria and oedema of the feet; the patient insisted upon having relief. Her circumference measured 44". The uterine sound ran about 3". The body of uterus was movable in relation to the tumour, which was the size of a man's head. An incision was made along the linea alba; adhesions to the tumour were cut through. The tumour was attached by a stalk the size of a thumb to the fundus uteri. A clamp was applied to it, and it was cut close. In the evening the patient complained suddenly of vertigo and sickness; the abdomen swelled ; she died under symptoms of internal hemorrhage. The tumour weighed about iaf lb. Autopsy revealed hyperplasia and neoplasmata of the uterus, chronic peritonitis and perimetritis, dropsy of the Fallopian tubes, and lymphectasia. More than three quarts of recent blood mixed with coagula were found in the abdominal cavity. Dr. Honing relates a case of 'a large fibrous polypus growing from the lower wall of the urethra. A woman aged 41 suffered from dysuria and bowel obstruction. A tumour the size of the fist projected from the genitals; it sprang from the left side of the urethra; the meatus was an opening an inch long. A still larger tumour was contained in the vao-ina. Both being turned out of the vagina, were removed by scissors. Actual cautery was applied to stop profuse bleeding. The mass was a soft fibroid, weighing three pounds. The patient recovered. (' Berlin, klin. Wochnsch.,' 1869.)