228 REPORT ON SURGERY. method, gives a distinct sound of fluid. Intermediate between these two forms, a class of cases is met with in which, though the hearing is impaired or an annoying tinnitus persists, the membrana tympani retains its healthy appearance, and the presence of secretion in the tympanum is made manifest, only, on inflation, by the sound produced, or by the fluid being brought visibly in contact with the inner surface of the membrane. In these cases, when recent, in a fairly healthy patient, simple treatment suffices—counter-irritation, alum spray to the fauces, or syringing through the nostrils some solution of car- bonate of soda. The mucus diminishes, the vascularity disappears, the membrane becomes translucent, but may remain relaxed, bulging to excess before inblown air. The author has met with cases in which the symptoms have depended on nervous exhaustion. When the in- flammatory action is more severe the membrane may, in a few days, become swollen into a red and fleshy mass of irregularly convex form, in which no trace of its natural structure or of the malleus can be discovered. The presence of fluid is easily detected by the ear, and in one or two weeks the inflamed membrane ulcerates, and gives exit to thick masses of viscid mucus, more or less mingled with pus. In these cases general treatment and attention to the throat suffice. The Eustachian tube must be kept open, and air sent right through daily. There is another class in which the secreted mucus is neither absorbed nor escapes through the Eustachian tube nor through the membrana tympani, but remains in the tympanum. These cases occur in various forms, i. Catarrh of the tympanum and fauces. 2. A subsequent stage, in which may be left no symptoms except a variable degree of deafness, with or without tinnitus. The membrane is usually concave, and of a dull, white appearance, but at certain parts presents either— (a) a yellowish or brownish hue, due to the presence of a dark fluid in contact with its inner surface, not to be confounded with the promon- tory. (5) A bulging, of a silvery white or reddish hue, more often seated at the upper posterior part than elsewhere, (c) Thinner and more transparent spots, often very much drawn in, but which, on inflation, bulge and are evidently filled with fluid, and sometimes oc- cupy half the membrane. In these cases the only means of relief seems to be the evacuation of the fluid by tapping the membrane as often as necessary. Generally more than once is requisite. Inflation often produces a temporary improvement. The thorough evacuation of the fluid results in the permanent restoration of the healthy state. Cases are given in illustration. The author remarks that when suppu- ration has occurred, the advisability of prompt evacuation has already, but not sufficiently, been insisted on. ('Guy's Hosp. Hep.,' xiv. p. 164.) Perforation of membrana tympani.—Cases illustrating Mr. Hinton's treatment of perforation are narrated by Dr. Dalby. The cavity of the tympanum was kept cleansed, and the accumulations w ere removed from time to time. When the ears had been well cleansed by an ordinary syringe, a syringe was used with a nozzle which fitted the meatus, and was defended by a piece of india-rubber tubing. In this way alkaline solutions were sent through the tympanum and Eustachian