190 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. of eclampsia she was delivered of a dead child, which showed uo trace of any eruption. Nine days later she died of peritonitis. A summary of the autopsy is given. As characteristic of both cases, and espe- cially the second, Auspitz gives (i) the eruption of vesicles and pus- tules in groups, with eczematous infiltration of the interlyiug skin; (2) the growths resembling condylomata in these places; (3) the de- velopment of the eruption during pregnancy in both cases; (4) the fact that one of the patients had bad syphilis. The ouly other cases resembling those which he finds recorded are two by Kobner under the name of " beerschwammahnliche multiple Papillargcschwiilste der Haut," one in a woman, the other in a man ; one by Alibert in a man, and two also in men by Bazin. Curgenven, "Cases of Herpes Contagiosus (?)," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869, ii, 488; Dauvergne, " Du Zona ou Zoster, et de sou Traiteuient par la Pommade de Belladonne," ' Bull. Gen. de Therap.,' t. 76, p. 170. Prurigo.—Derby ('Sitzungsber. der Wien. Acad, der Wissenseh.,' lix, pt. i, p. 280) gives the results of his investigations into the anatomy of prurigo, from six living cases, and another which terminated fatally from obstinate prurigo followed by chronic eczema. Portions of skin were hardened in chromic acid, and sections coloured with carmine. In one case a solution of silver was injected, to demonstrate the lymphatics. He infers that the papules of prurigo are caused by a morbid condition of the hair and the tissues round it. He gives a very minute descrip- tion of the appearances observed, and concludes that (1) in prurigo we have to deal with an affection of the hair, in which a protrusion from the outer root-sheath, of varying length, and made up of epithelial cells, penetrates obliquely between the fibres of the arrector pili, which are separated by it. (2) That the arrectores pili become hypertrophied, and that, through the increased pressure which they exert upon the hair, the latter takes a more vertical position (goose-skin), and a condi- tion is brought about in which a hernia-like bulging of the inner sheath of the hair-sac and of the outer root-sheath is possible. (3) That in the neighbourhood of the hair thus affected a serous exudation takes place into the corium and papilla?, and appears in the papule as a clear or slightly blood-coloured drop. These observations throw some light upon the reason why prurigo does not occur on hairless places like the hollow of the hand and the sole of the foot, and but rarely in the bends of the extremities, where few hairs only are found. The paper is accompanied by good illustrations of the microscopical appearances observed. G-iintz (' Arch. f. Derm.,' i, 630) rapidly cured three cases of pruritus cutaneus with carbolic acid, which he gave in pills, containing gr. \, twice a day to a child of fifteen months, and to two adults 5—9 pills a day, each containing a grain. The two latter, a female of 40 and a man of 75, recovered after taking four scruples of the acid in the course of four weeks; the first got well after a fortnight. Pagge ('Lancet,' 1870, ii, 120) read a paper before the Med. Soc. on the anatomy of a case of molluscum fibrosum, a name which he con-