RLPOItT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 40G Case i.—A lady, aet. 34, had largo fibrous growths in the uterus, causing Menorrhagia. I'irst pregnancy supervened ; when four months gone, after a sudden and violent movement she had acute pain in the seat of a fibroid. In the sixth month she fell down stairs; considerable hemorrhage followed. At end of the eighth month the haemorrhage returned; the left leg and thigh became swollen, hot, and congested; the femoral vein was hard, and apparently blocked up. Labour came at middle of ninth month. I\irious haemorrhage set in two hours after removal of placenta. A firm fibrous growth was felt protruding from the posterior Avail of the uterus. Perchloride of iron stopped the bleeding. She recovered. Shreds of fibrous tissue continued to pass ; one piece was as large as a walnut. In three months no trace of en- largement of uterus or of the tumour could be discovered. (These cases are of extreme interest. In the first it would seem that the fibroid tumours disappeared by a process of atrophy; in the second by disinte- gration and discharge.—E. B.) (' St. Thomas's Hosp. Eeports,' 1870.) Dystocia from tumours is discussed by Dr. E. Copeman (' Obstetr. Trans.,' 1870). He relates cases, one woman in her sixth labour; a tumour thought to be fibroid, occupied so much of the pelvic brim and sacral hollow that the head could not enter. Child delivered under chloroform with great difficulty by turning ; dead. Yomiting and rapid pulse followed. Next day there was apparent improvement, but vomit- ing continued, and she died on third day. No autopsy. Dr. Copeman is inclined to attribute death to chloroform. Case 2 had a child two years previously delivered instrumentally. In second labour a large tumour presented in pelvis, hard, immovable, attached to left side of pelvis from symphysis to. spine of ischium, almost filling cavity of pelvis. Turning was accomplished with great difficulty. The thorax and cranium were perforated, and by crotchet extraction was completed. No hemorrhage. There was some evidence of pelvic inflammation after- wards, but recovery was good. The tumour remained. By Dr. Wiltshire (op. cit.) ; a hard tumour had been growing from the crest of the right ilium for some time. It grew upwards. When pregnant the foetal hand presented below it. Delivery normal. The tumour was considered to be fibro-enchondromatous. By Mr. Tarn ('Obstet. Trans.,' 1869), who relates a case complicated with ovarian cyst which burst with a fatal result. By Dr. Hall Davis (op. cit.), who in a case of ovarian cyst de- livered the patient safely at term with the forceps. _ Dr. Hides had seen six cases of pregnancy complicated with ovarian disease go through labour without trouble. Dr. Barnes referred to one case in which an ovarian cyst burst in the eighth month of pregnancy, causing death, and to another in which an ovarian cyst rolled over on its axis, twisting the pedicle and causing fatal haemorrhage and peritonitis. When rup- tures of the cyst occurred during pregnancy, he put the questions whe- ther abdominal section should not be practised to remove the tumour ? This and other questions are discussed (op. cit.) by Spencer "Wells. He relates one case in which premature labour came on, and the cyst burst some time afterwards, causing immediate death. He relates a case in which rupture of the cyst having occurred at the fourth month,