REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 502 be watered with a disinfectant solution, such as carbolic acid. Such a proposal could not be made to a metropolitan vestry with any chance of compliance. The expense and the dread of panic would be obstacles. This proceeding has hitherto, therefore, been limited to severely in- fected streets and courts. " $. Public day and Sunday schools in an infected district should be authoritatively closed. The out-patient rooms of hospitals and dispen- saries are even more dangerous than schools. It should be a punishable offence to send a child to any day school, public or private, from a house or family in which fever exists. There is, however, no power or authority for this. " 6. Sufficient hospital accommodation should be provided for the poor, with arrangements at each hospital for the disinfection of the person and clothing of the patient on his discharge. No sufficient hos- pital accommodation as yet exists. " 7. "Where it appears to the Medical Officer of Health necessary that the sick person should be removed, he should be able to enforce the removal, certainly in any case where the sick is under no medical care, or is being treated at the public expense. Very limited powers of this kind are at present conferred by the 26th section of the Sanitary Act, 1866, and these are only applicable after considerable dangerous delay. This section is practically useless. " 8. An appropriate carriage should be provided in every district for the conveyance of the sick to the hospital. At present public cabs are still largely used, because few local authorities in London have pro- vided appropriate carriages, as they are empowered to do by the 24th section of the Sanitary Act, and sometimes because the sick refuse to use them. "9. The Sanitary Act (sections 24 and 38), as it relates to the use of and disinfection of public carriages for the conveyance of persons with infectious diseases, should be enforced; this is not done. " 10. There should be in every district one or more proper mortuary houses for the reception of the dead of any class of society, and removal thereto should be capable of being enforced where necessary. There are many of the districts of the metropolis in which the local sanitary authorities have not yet provided the mortuary house, which they are empowered to provide by the 27th section of the Sanitary Act; even where it has been provided, the limitations imposed by that section render the statute practically valueless. In all cases a packet of Mac- dougal's or of Calvert's disinfecting powder should be strewed over the body before the coffin-lid is screwed down, which should be done as quickly as possible. K 11. The sanitary authorities should provide such a staff of assist- ants or labourers, and such appliances as may be necessary to carry out the disinfection of houses, clothing, bedding, &c, where people are too poor or ignorant to be trusted with the work, and also proper means of destroying certain things by fire. The 23rd section of the Sanitary Act, empowering local authorities to provide means of disinfection, has, it is believed, up to the present moment been entirely ignored in the metropolis, not even a ' proper place' having been provided where dis-