53 1N1K R MITTE N T FE V E It. population, especially the working classes, had to use the salt water or the water from the ditches. At the latter end of July the first case of marsh fever occurred. The epidemic reached its highest at the begin- ning of September, and ceased abruptly at the beginning of October. With the exception of this epidemic, the average of disease was very low. The peculiarity of the epidemic was, that it occurred in different circumscribed localities in the author's practice. It showed itself on the shores of the Oste, and close to the outlet of the stream, where the water was most salt, and even here only in certain cases of the popula- tion. The greater part of the patients were the brickmakers, who had come over for the summer from the district of Lippe, and were conse- quently not acclimatised. Next in order were the men-servants, very few of the women, and those chiefly milkmaids, while the better classes and children did not suffer more than usual. A second peculiarity was, that infection followed very rapidly, like a sort of poisoning, in exceptional cases only with rigors and fever, generally with a completely cool skin, accompanied by symptoms of choleraic diarrhoea, with profuse exhaust- ing stools, rapidly increasing anaemia, followed by enlargement of the ; spleen several days later. Bitter notices especially that the anaemia is : not a result of the diarrhoea, but a "co-effect" of the malarious influ- i ence, and that the diarrhoea is to be looked upon not so much as a symp- i torn of the malarial process as an expression of a local affection, " as ; the reaction of the whole intestinal canal against the presence of irritating matter." A third peculiarity was, that in the greater num- ber of cases there was complete absence of fever, or but few symptoms of it, and an absence of intermissions; while in the cases of relapse, ' which much more rarely presented violent intestinal symptoms, the : fever and the remittent character were more marked. The course of the affection was favourable, only one patient, a decrepid old man of seventy- : six years dying. Barat (" Etude sur la fievre epidemique qui a regne en 1869 a l'ile de Eeunion," 'Arch, de Med. Navale,' 1870, xii, 422) records an epi- demic of fever which broke out in February, 1869, in Beunion, and .•spread rapidly, not only among the marshes on the coast, but attacking :the people inland on the mountains, at a height of 919 metres above :the sea level. The island is a cone of basalt, the disturbance of which ha.s produced a wall of abrupt mountains, surrounded at their base by ;a narrow border of plains furrowed by watercourses, which overflow during winter, and become stagnant in the dry season, interrupted by .large ponds and pools, and girdled by shingles, which bar all the rivers aand hinder the ready discharge of their waters without opposing the invasion of the sea. The mixed population of the affected communes 'was 23,000, many of them living in great misery; rich and poor were ^attacked alike, the Malgaches and CafHrs alone seeming to have a ■sort of immunity. Of those attacked, 4311 suffered between April 7th :and July 31st, and 60 died. At the commencement of the epidemic the -attacks were irregular,'•becoming longer as the periods of intermission became less marked, taking on a remittent quotidian, and then a pseudo- continuous type of fever. The quotidian were found in 89 per cent., the tertian in 3 per cent.; other types, as quartan, were met with, and