379 PE1U-UTE11INE DISEASES. Dr. Barnes sketches the history and diagnosis of retro-uterine hema- tocele, showing that the diagnosis depends greatly upon the use of the uterine sound. He then, in order to define more clearly the source and significance of the symptoms of pelvic hematoceles, divides his clinical observations into five groups. The first contains four cases of rupture of the gravid uterus. In describing these cases he points out that death of the foetus is an efficient cause of rupture, and that de- generation of uterine tissues is not a necessary factor. The second group contains eight cases, some doubtful, of rupture of tubal-gestation cysts. The third group contains four cases of bursting of a diseased ovary. In all post-mortem examination was made. In one, in a young woman, there was malignant disease of the right ovary. One was a case of axial twisting of an ovarian tumour, under the pressure of the preg- nant uterus, resulting in strangulation of the tumour, extravasation of blood, and peritonitis. One was a case of axial twisting of an ovarian tumour without pregnancy. One was a bursting of a diseased ovarian tumour, the blood becoming encapsulated. Group 4 contains two cases of effusion from external violence. Group 5 contains eight cases of effusion consequent on abortion, some of them possibly being cases of rupture of tubal cysts. Group 6 includes eighteen cases connected with menstruation, and others where the antecedent conditions were doubtful. In one case the hemorrhagic disposition was increased by variola. In two effusion arose at the onset of menstruation, the author thinks from the difficulty of the menstrual blood, in its first rush, in finding free outlet by the uterus and vagina. He then compares the symptoms of the several groups, shows that effusions from rupture of uterus, of tubal-gestation cysts and diseased ovaries, form a cataclysmic order, in which the shock is often at once crushing, and the blood rarely becomes encysted; whilst in the abor- tion and menstrual cases, the injury being less severe, the effusion less in quantity and more gradual, the symptoms are less marked, and the blood coagulating is usually encysted by peritoneal inflammation. He shows that one cause of menstrual hematocele is obstruction from nar- rowing of os externum uteri or flexion. His experience is adverse to opening the hematocele. (' St. Thomas's Hosp. Rep.,' 1870.) Dr. Duncan relates a case of a pluripara who had severe perimetritis after an abortion, ending in perimetric abscess, leaving the uterus fixed and drawn closely to the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis. Another abor- tion occurred whilst this state of things remained. When in the second month of a subsequent pregnancy the fixing of the uterus was still felt. As the uterus developed itself it became retroverted, gradually filled the pelvis, and the cervix was drawn close against the symphysis. The uterus was absolutely immovable. About the end of the fourth month the retroverted and adherent uterus became gradually and spon- taneously replaced. The foetal heart was heard until the middle of the sixth month, when the child died. Fully a month after this the mem- branes bur3t, and the delivery was completed. The os uteri remained widely open, unnaturally adjacent to the symphysis, and its mobility restricted. Involution was impeded, and two months after labour the uterus had regained some mobility. Two things are specially note-