R.EF011T ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 39G miration to 40. Labour pains Bet in, and the child was expelled next flay. Extreme dyspnoea, countenance excessively pale, face expressing extreme anxiety. No pulse at wrist, nor at the posterior tibial artery bounds of heart almost ml" She called incessantly for air, said she was being suffocated. She died at 7.45 a.m., and during the last few seconds her face was convulsed. Autopsy : lungs quite healthy ; heart healthy, its right side extremely distended, also the large veins 'of the neck and the two cavae; left ventricle small, pulmonary veins nearly empty. At the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery plugs of firm fibrine were found obstructing the passage of the blood. In the centre of these plugs was a piece of fibrine the size of an almond, at the base of which was an irregular surface, which fitted closely to a correspond- ing rough surface in a clot of the iliac vein. This was the origin of the embolus. Dr. Hennig reports ('Monatssch. f. Geburtsk.,' 1869) a case of embolism and abscess of the uterus, thus found in an organ little disposed to this affection. A woman recovered very shortly after her second labour, and after the third and last had a severe haemorrhage, followed by secondary haemorrhage. Injection of vinegar or perchloride of iron always stopped it, but it returned. The uterus was low in the pelvis and fixed. Syncope repeatedly occurred, so that transfusion was re- sorted to. Blood whipped and defibrinated, was used, but very little could be thrown into the veins. The patient died three hours later, A fibrinous clot was found in the vena cava, filling the right auricle, in which was a loose thrombus, probably an embolus from the uterine vein. The fibrinous clot extended to the pulmonary arteries. In the right median vein, close to the point of puncture, and nearly filling the calibre, was a firm clot extending to the basilica. This had no doubt hindered the transfusion. The lungs were cedematous. The uterus was fixed at the left of the pelvic wall. A little above the os uteri were two open- ings ; the larger was the uterine cavity, the smaller led to the left into the cavity of an abscessus gangrenosus parametriticus. A bit of de- composing matter resembling placenta adhered. In a branch of the much distended left uterine vein, which ran close to the cavity of the abscess, was an old decomposing thrombus, from which a portion had become detached, and become arrested in the right auricle, and had given rise to the sense of oppression during life. The author traced the cause of the process to the penultimate labour. Extra- Uterine Gestation. A case of abdominal gestation. Dr. Pernice ('Berl. Klin. Wehnsch ' 1869.) A case of primary abdominal gestation and recovery without suppu- rative action. By Dr. L. Pfeiffer. (' Monatssch. f! Geburtsk,' Dec. 1869.) Dr. Lecluyse relates a very remarkable case of extra-uterine gestation following on Caesarian section. A woman, get. 28, had undergone this operation on account of contraction of the pelvis, and became pregnant the next year. Abdominal pains set in, the cervix uteri could not be