REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. L2 I voluntary control of muscular movements, both in the auimals experi- mented upon aud in locomotor ataxy. Allbutt (ib., i, 157) holds that in locomotor ataxy we have two things to deal with—loss of power, probably due to the degeneration of the posterior columns, and a disorder of movement, due to atrophy of the roots of the sensory nerves, with consequent inability to take the bear- ings of external surfaces. Against Lockhart Clarke's view, he urges that the more the nerve-roots become structureless, the greater is the "wildness" of the muscles supplied by them ; and asserts,with Trousseau, that the loss of tactile sensibility is sufficient to cause loss of co-ordina- tion. Eosenthal ('"Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1869, No. 25, &c), in a paper since published in his ' Handbuch der Diagnostik und Therapie der Nerven- krankheiten,' gives an abstract of 65 cases seen by himself, 46 occur- ring in males, and 19 in females. Of these, 27 seem to have been due to cold, 3 1 to libidinous excesses of various kinds, and 7 to exhaustion and severe diseases. The youngest patient was nineteen years old, the oldest sixty-eight; the majority were between thirty and fifty. Laycock, " An Inquiry into the Influence of Libidinous Excess on the Causation of Locomotor Ataxy," ' Dub. Quart. Journ.,' xlvii, 257; Fereol, " De quelques Symptonies Visceraux et en Particulier des Symptomes Laryngo-broncbiques de l'Ataxie Locomo- trice Progressive," ' L'Union Med.,' 1869, vii, 39 ; Ball, " Des Arthropathies Consecutives a l'Ataxie Locomotrice Progressive," ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 226, &c. (continued from the volume of 1868, and concluded); Hudson," Ataxie Locomotrice progressive, Impairment of the Senses of Sight, Smell and Hearing," ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 436; Fletcher, "Case of Locomotor Ataxy in a Man, jet. 24," ib., 577 ; Moxon, "Notes on Locomotor Ataxy, or Tabes Dorsalis," ' Lancet,' 1870, i, 543. Delirium. Eepeating Cohnheim's experiments, Bastian (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869, i, 66) was impressed by observing, in the mesentery of the frog, the amazing activity of the white blood-cells which had come into contact after passing out of the vessels, their coherence, and, finally, their fusion "into a single protoplasmic mass." The same appearance had struck him in the blood removed from the tip of the finger in cases of rheu- matic and typhoid fever, pneumonia, &c. In a patient who died of erysipelas, in a state of low delirium, ten days after a cut on the head, and two days after his admission into hospital, Bastian found, on micro- scopical examination of the smaller vessels and capillaries from the grey matter, minute embolia of apparently recent origin, distinct masses, of irregular shape and size, made up of an agglomeration of white blood- corpuscles, formed in some cases by the union of three or four white corpuscles only, in others of two to three hundred. In other parts large rounded bodies were seen, formed by the complete fusion of cor- puscles into a single mass, which had undergone afterwards more or less granular degeneration, with all intermediate grades. With these appearances there were no signs of inflammation of the part itself, such as a lining of corpuscles next the walls of the vessel. Similar conditions were found in the liver and kidneys. Bastian suggests that the so called