REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 398 right knee-joint appeared. Further symptoms of chronic pyaemia set in, and signs of diffuse perforative peritonitis having suddenly come on, the woman died. Autopsy.—The sac was adherent for a small space to the abdominal wall round the external opening, extensively adherent below to bladder, small intestines and colon. It contained a chalky incrusted foetus. There was a perforation, which had been made through the pressure of the sharp edges of the macerated foetal skull through the sac in the region of the valvula coli. This had caused the fatal diffuse peritonitis. The uterus was normal, pushed into retroversion; the left ovary and tube were normal; the broad and round ligaments in the right had been worked into the structures of the sac. ('Arch. f. G-ynakol.,' 1870.) Dr. Hall Davis related a case of extra-uterine gestation, and exhibited the specimen ('Obstetr. Trans.,' 1870.) A pluripara: symptoms suggesting rupture of the uterus and escape of the foetus into the abdominal cavity set in, and abdominal section was contemplated and rejected. Jaundice, delirium, vomiting, death followed. Autopsy.—A foetus of full size lay free in the abdominal cavity, the uterus, enlarged, lay in the right lumbar and iliac region, partly in front of the foetus. A large cyst connected with the left broad ligament was found, which had contained the foetus and had burst. A case is narrated ('Obstet. Trans.,' 1869) by Dr. Martyn. Drs. Martyn, Madge and Phillips, reporting upon the specimen, believe it to be an example of an ovarian foetal cyst, the possibility of which has been too absolutely denied. Two cases of tubal gestation (op. cit.), are related by Andrew Brown and Mr. Worship. Dr. Chatelain illustrates the complication ofpregnancy with pneumonia. ('Journ. de Med. de Bruxelles,' 1870.) In one case a woman at the end of the sixth month had pneu- monia. Some symptoms set in, amendment followed spontaneous premature delivery. Sudamina followed, ataxic delirium, and recovery after illness of five weeks. He then cites various authors in relation to the subject, referring to eighteen cases collected by Grisolle; eight of these died, in four spontaneous labour occurred, in five abortion. Bourgeois relates twelve cases; two died, in five abortion, in three premature labour set in. Grisolle and Bourgeois found the symptoms moderated after delivery. Displacement of the uterus, retroversion of the gravid womb.—Dr. V. Haselberg relates a remarkable case of retroversion of the gravid womb. A woman, aet. 38, had borne two children, then two premature labours, then a child at term. From her first pregnancy she had an enormous pendulous abdomen, so that she had to carry it suspended by a belt hung over her shoulders. Being pregnant, retention of urine appeared. The os uteri could not be reached behind the symphysis, but it was at last made out, projecting forwards behind the abdominal wall. Attempt at reposition failed, but premature labour and expulsion of the foetus followed. The uterus retained its abnormal position notwithstanding. The fundus was quite thrown back in the sacrum, coming close to the vulva, whilst the os was pointed upwards above the symphysis. By