THE ACUTE EXANTHEMATA. 71 coagulation of the juice (sue) contained in eacli muscular fibre, lie made four further experiments on the local application of heat to the head • the symptoms were different, consisting mainly of an insensibility like that produced by chloroform ; a post-mortem examination of two showed flaccidity of the heart and limb-muscles, together with absence of pul- sation of the heart, whether immediately after death or on the application of electricity. After discussing the meaning of these latter experiments, and review- ing others made by CI. Bernard and himself, he concludes that they may all be ranged under two heads: (a) In the cue the production of heat is rapid and general, the tem- perature of the blood rising to 45"o° 0., and death occurring, after convulsions, by the coagulation of the left ventricle and general venous distension. (Z>) In the other, the production of heat is slower, and influences espe- cially the nervous centres, the temperature of the blood rising but little ; the cause of death seems to be a profound disorder of innervation, and, in consequence, arrest of the heart's action during the relaxed state, just as after excitement of the pneumogastric. These two forms correspond well with those described by authors as sthenic and asthenic forms of insolatio. Thompson (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, ii, 35) records a "fatal case of sunstroke, with rise of temperature after death," in a butcher, set. 59. He had had temporary hemiplegia a year before; three of his family had died of apoplexy; the autopsy revealed atheromatous arteries, dilated and hypertrophied left ventricle, and fluid blood. The Acute Exanthemata.* Bouchut (''G-az. des Hop.,' 1870, 285) publishes two cases of para- lysis after acute exanthemata, one of general paralysis after variola, in a girl set. 8 years, the other paraplegia in a girl Bet. 4 years. In both there was a basic anaemic bruit, in both hyperasmia of the optic disk; in the case of the child recovering from variola the right eye was much affected, while the left was normal. The cause of the para- lysis he conceives to be the general anaemia, giving rise to disorders of the vaso-motor nerves, followed by congestion or ischasmia of the cerebro-spinal meninges (ne'vroses ischemiques et congestives). The * In reference to the treatment of these and other febrile affections by cold water, it may be well to call the attention of readers unacquainted with the book to the " Medical Reports on the effects of Water, Cold and Warm, as a remedy in Fever and other Diseases, whether applied to the Surface of the Body or used Internally," by James Currie, M.D., F.R.S. (2nd edit., 1 vol., Liverpool, 1748; 3rd edit., 2 vols., 1804). Chapter I contains the narrative of a certain Dr. Wright, who, suffering from a contagious fever, " put in practice on himself what he had often wished to try on others, in fevers similar to his own "—three buckets of salt water thrown upon him at once, with immediate relief to the headache, &c. Struck by this, and encouraged by the example of one of his col- leagues, Dr. Brandreth, Currie employed cold affusion in fevers, smallpox, &c. His observations on the cases, as well as on his use of the thermometer, for which lie pro- mised greater things, are worth notice. Is it to this or to some other writer that Ilcbra refers under the name Curie (' Hautkrankhciten,' s. 156)?—A. B. S.