THE CHILD: RENAL diseases. Ul their acme. As autopsy revealed fresh tubercles in the lungs, liver, and spleen, as well as in the meninges, the intercurrent haematuria must have occurred at the moment when, in consequence of tubercular deve- lopment in the kidneys, the disturbance in circulation and haemorrhage took place in the renal canals. In a case of a girl aged 2 years hema- turia appeared; immediately before this, the child had been leaping about the room, and the author believes the renal haemorrhage was due to the increased blood-pressure caused by the forced movements. In a boy, hematuria was observed in the course of a chronic exanthema (pemphigus), which returned from time to time. Bright's disease.—Numerous dissections have convinced the authors that this disease is far more frequent than is generally believed. Its presence was established by autopsy in 265 cases. The acute form was observed 213 times, the chronic 52 times. The acute was more frequent in girls, the chronic in boys. The stage of hyperaemia and exudation was seen 53 times; the stage of fatty degeneration 160 times; the stage of granular atrophy 6 times. Hyperplasia of the interstitial connective tissue was also observed, but never in the high degree seen in adults. Of the 265 cases the disease was primary in 5 only, secondary in 260. The symptoms are modified by individuality, by the complicating disease, and the opinion of Lebert and Vogel was con- firmed that the symptoms can do no more than indicate Bright's dis- ease ; they cannot indicate the degree or stage. The quantity of albumen in the urine is greater in the acute forms. The persistence of albumen does not warrant the conclusion that the disease is extending, since albuminuria is frequent in children without Bright's disease. Its pre- sence is important when blood-corpuscles are also found. This is often the first sign in children; the quantity is never great. Pus-globules are only found in complications, as in pyelitis, uretritis, and purulent nephritis. Nucleated cells are found only when the case is lapsing into fatty degeneration. Epithelium of the renal canals and casts are like blood-corpuscles of the earliest sign. In scarlatina they are often found in the beginning of the disease and whilst the rash is still out. When the quantity is considerable it may cause obstruction of the renal canals, hindrance to the circulation, exudations, and lead to development of Bright's disease. In the form attending scarlatina, in most cases, the straight canaliculi are involved, and since the removal of the desquama- tion from these is facilitated by the flow of urine behind, the favorable course of these cases is explained. Kidney-cylinders, or fibrinous casts, are found in childhood, but rarely in great quantity. Blood-cylinders and granular cells and granular detritus occur. Diuresis is commonly sparing, the urine is richer in colouring-matter, urea and uric acid, the more acute the form of Bright's disease. Fever is never absent in the acute forms ; it is less marked in the subacute, and almost wanting in chronic. The pulse not seldom falls below the normal in chronic Bright's disease, and becomes irregular. DropBy is frequent, but not a necessary symptom. It sets in sometimes rapidly, accompanied by marked uremic symptoms, or it comes on quite insidiously. The cause lies in degradation of the blood, and in the spontaneous escape of blood serum. The authors saw copious albuminuria precede the dropsy, in