222 REPORT ON SURGERY. tube, a mercurial pressure-gauge, the objects of this addition being to ascertain the fluid pressure within the chest, and to inform the operator as to the degree of negative pressure obtained at different stages of the operation and its effects upon the respiratory movements. An earlv operation was strongly advocated, and the steady treatment of cases of effusion from the first. Eepeated tappings, with the employment of an amount of syphon power adapted to the case, also injections of iodine or other fluids, if necessary, should be adopted in cases of chronic em- pyema. He greatly deprecated the admission of air as having (i) a dangerous tendency to set up suppurative pleurisy; (2) as, on mecha- nical grounds, rendering expansion of the lung impossible during its presence. Dr. Burdon-Sanderson considered a free opening of para- mount importance, but one was as good as two. Dr. Anstie was also of opinion that early evacuation should be practised. Dr. Silver pointed out that Dr. Powell's trocar had been used at Manchester and given up, as it was liable to be clogged. ('Lancet,' Feb. 5, 1870.) M. Dupre has operated seventy-six times. He thinks the trifling operation prevents the accidents likely to arise from the accumulation of the fluid, &c, without adding anything to the danger of the case. Of these seventy-six cases, sixty-eight resulted favorably; in eight, death occurred. (' Gazette des Hopitaux,' No. 37, 1869.) In the report given to the Medical Society of the Hospitals, on the diseases most prevalent in Paris during the two months of March and April, M. Besnier has noted the result of paracentesis in pleurisy. In twenty-five cases the operation had been performed fourteen times, always with success. The patients treated in this manner recovered more rapidly than those did in whose cases the effusions were too limited to warrant the operation. (' Gazette Medicale de Paris,' No. 23, 1869.) Tracheotomy for croup, Sfc.—Mr. Annandale, in showing three children on whom he had performed tracheotomy, for croup, advocated making the opening as low down as possible ('Edin. Med. Journal,' June, 1869, p. 1130). At the St. Eugenie Hospital, of fourteen cases of diphtheria, all died, and in one only was the operation omitted. Broncho-pneu- monia was the cause of death. Under the care of M. Bergeron, out of six cases of croup, one only survived, a child four years of age, treated with cubebs; the other five were operated on and died. At the Chil- dren's Hospital five cases of croup were operated on. One was cured, and one remained under treatment. At the St. Antoine two cases of croup operated on died (' Gazette des Hopitaux,' No. 36, 1869). M. Barthez, during March and April, had thirteen cases, eleven of which died. M. Bergeron, out of nine, had three successful ones. M. Eoger lost all seven of his cases; one, however, died of fever, caught in the hospital (' Gazette Medicale de Paris,' No. 23, 1869). For croup, four cases recovered and five cases died. For other causes, five recovered and one died ('Boston City Hosp. Eep.,' 1870, p. 504). Removal of a sliawl-pin by tracheotomy.—Dr. Eeeve was called to see a child who had swallowed a " shawl-pin." There was great difficulty of breathing, and the left side of the chest clearly received no air. In