REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 300 rarely exists for any length of time without the supervention of peri- metritis, and frequently of pelvic cellulitis; hence adhesions. The fundus can in such cases often he restored by gradual and repeated manipulations by a finger in the rectum, the adhesions gradually yielding. Dr. Skinner, discussing the practice of incising the os uteri, says the operation admits of being divided into—i, the major operation, which involves incising the os uteri internum as well as the os tincae; and, 2, the minor, by which the os tincae only is incised. He prefers excising from within outwards, and this by means of Routh's two-bladed hystero- tome. He thinks incision should be preceded by dilatation by metallic sounds. He contends that " on no account ought the vaginal portion of the cervix to be divided or split through and through." He doubts if incision is often serviceable as a cure for dysmenorrhoea, but says the incision of the external os is useful in sterility. (' Liverpool Med. and Surg. Reports,' Oct., 1868.) Scanzoni, in an elaborate memoir (' Beitriige,' 1870), insists that too exclusive importance is attached to the presumed mechanical hindrance to the meeting of the semen and ova. He suggests that in many cases diseased ovaries may produce diseased ova. Frequent abnormities of the Fallopian tubes, again, are beyond diagnosis. Putting the case of a typical dysmenorrhoea, with narrow os externum uteri and sterility, he says, the os is split, the dysinennorrhcea is relieved, but the sterility continues : must we not here conclude that the cause of sterility lies in other unknown conditions ? Scanzoni makes other objections to prove that narrowing of the os is not established as a sufficient or frequent cause of sterility. He cites a case of pregnancy with typical conoid cervix and small os, and reminds that conception not seldom takes place in cases where the passing of the sound is very difficult. He analyses Marion Sims' cases, and shows that in very few of them it is clearly stated that conception followed operation. Dr. Adolph Rasch (' Obstetr. Trans.,' 1870) discusses the mechanism of air in the vagina. If a multipara whose genitals are normal be placed on her back, with the thighs flexed and abducted, the vaginal orifice closed, movements caused by respiration are seen, but no air enters. In the lateral position the same thing is observed even if the vulva is lax. This is even the case where the perinseum is ruptured. Rasch does not believe in the suction power of the vagina. The finger or speculum introduced whilst the subject is on her back, we find the walls ot the vagina always in contact. When the patient is placed m the prone position or on all-fours, if the vulva be open air will enter, because the intestines falling downwards by gravity cause a vacuum. Under this condition violent exertion may expel the air, giving rise to vaginal flatus. If the abdomen be supported by the hands or a bandage no air will enter. Rasch deduces from this observation that it is of import- ance in labour to deliver the woman on her back, and also to preserve the dorsal decubitus in cases of pelvic abscess communicating with the Vafjnder the term vaginal respiration Dr. Kristeller describes the move- ments of rise and fall of the vagina under the influence of the rise and