22 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. out that the brain requires about 50-ioooths of a second to distinguish and signalise the distinction between two colours. To determine the duration of the psychical act Donders suggested the intercalation into the series of functions comprised in the physiological time certain fresh terms of purely psychical action conceiving the retardation that would then occur would serve as a measure. Thus, instead of simply registering a sensation of light with one hand, M. Donders added to the sensation of sight an alternation of perception and volition, by asking the patient to make his signal with the right hand when he perceived a red object, and with the left when a white. In this case the psychi- cal action prolonged the physiological time occupied in the perception of light o'i^ sec. It was found that the sense of sight required nearly three times as long to distinguish between two letters as the ear required to distinguish between two vowel sounds. M. Colin * shows that there is no relation between the volume of the encephalon and the degree of intelligence exhibited by various classes of the animal kingdom. M. 0. Dareste f gives various instances in support of his theory that in a natural group of animals the convolutions of the brain are developed in proportion to the size of each species. Prof. GroltzJ shows that after careful removal of the cerebrum in frogs the animals remain perfectly silent and immovable, unless irritated, but can still retain their equilibrium, as shown by their endeavours to climb up an inclined plain that is gradually more and more tilted, and when gently stroked down the back, croak. He has also established that intense irritation of sensory nerves exercises a powerful depressing influence on the reflex activity generally. And the same conclusion has been arrived at by Lewisson.ยง Brown-Sequard has continued in his ' Archives of Physiology' his experiments on the different species of conductors for sensory impression on the spinal cord, and on the artificial production of epilepsy. The position and size of the reflex centres of the several nerves issuing from the spinal cord of the frog has been investigated by Masius and v. Lair ;|| and Meynert H discusses the subject of the twofold origin of the spinal cord from the brain. Hermann and Escher** show that the functions of the brain are inter- fered with and convulsions produced by arrest both of the arterial and venous currents, the immediate cause being disturbance of the exchange of gases between the blood and the nervous tissue ; and Nassett endea- vours to show that, whilst blood containing a deficiency of oxygen does not appear to constitute an irritant to the nerve centres, blood contain- ing an excess of carbonic acid, whether absolute or only relative to the amount of oxygen present, is so to a powerful degree. * 1 Comptes Rendus,' Janvier io, 1870. + ' Beitrige zurLehre von den Functional derNerven Centra des Frosches,' Berlin, 1869. ยง 'Reickert und Dubois Reymond's Archiv f. Anatomie,' 1869, p. 255. || ' Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,' 1870, No. 1. ^ ' Wien. Sitzungsber.,' 1869, p. I. ** 'Pfluger's Archiv,' i87o, p. 3. ft ' Centralblatt,' 1870, No. 18.