DYSTOCIA FROM tfHJB CIIII/D. t.0] investigates the anatomical structure of these joints. Dr. Fordyce Barker and Dr. T. E. Taylor, discussing Dr. Snolling's paper, added original cases and observations. (*Amer. Journ. of Obstetrics,'Feb., 1S70.) Professor Hodge contests the accuracy of Dr. Duncan's arguments against the si/nclitism of the head during labour. Hodge says he has always taught that the foetal head traverses the pelvis, maintaining parallelism with the planes of the pelvis successively reached. His confidence in the truth of this law is strengthened by continual obser- vation. If, he says, this fact be substantiated, its practical importance can hardly be estimated. If the great occipital extremity of the head descends in a natural labour in such a manner that the occipito-mental diameter always coincides with the axis of the obstetric canal, whether straight or curved, and that the cervico-bregmatic plane of the head, with its diameters of equal length, is parallel to the successive planes of the pelvis through which it passes, it results that it is the great business of the accoucheur during the whole process of descent, to insure this parallelism by facilitating, during the first portion of the descent, the process of flexion of the head, and during the last, by faci- litating its extension. The blades of the forceps, for example, should always be applied as nearly as possible in the direction of the occipito- mental diameter, and traction effort be made in the axis of the obstetric canal, inasmuch as the longest diameter of the head will be coincident with the obstetric axis, and the cervico-bregmatic circumference will be parallel with the planes of the pelvis and vagina. This, as all expe- rience demonstrates, is not only the most natural, but also the easiest mode for the transit of the head. (' Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,' 1870.) Dystocia from the Child. Dr. Carl Hecker publishes a memoir on the form of the head in face- presentations. He contends that the face-presentation is produced by a dolichocephalic condition; the greater proportional length of the posterior arm of the lever formed by the long axis of the foetal head moving on the atlas acts in early labour so as to bring down the face. "Winckel criticised this, alleging that the dolichocephalic condition noticed after birth by Hecker was the result, not the cause, of the face- presentation. Hecker replies that the persistence of the dolicho- cephalic state weeks after birth proves that it existed before the labour. (The reporter must, however, state that this persistence does not prove Hecker's proposition. The form imparted to the head during severe labour is commonly preserved long after, perhaps even during life to some extent.—E. B.) ('Arch. f. Gynakol.,' 1870.) Dr. Duncan, citing the evidence put forward by Hecker in favour of the opinion that face presentations are the result of the dolichocepha- lous formation of the foetal head, discusses the general question as to the causes of face-presentations. Hecker shows that a great majority of children born with the face presenting have the dolicocephalous form ; the height of the skull is small, it is prominent posteriorly, and has narrow but slightly bulging parietal bones. These conditions ho 26