231 VALUE OP CICATRICES. discharge of thick caseous and calcareous matter, the residues of tho earlier inflammatory formations." By the side of the rectum a similar rule holds good. In one case an abscess near the caecum probably dis- charged after twenty years at the loin and into the colon. The ab- scesses may form with acute symptoms, " but much more frequently they form slowly and without pain or fever or any other distress." In these cases they acquire great interest from the difficulty of diagnosis. They may resemble bursee or fatty or fibro-cellular tumours, and only a carefully ascertained history of the case may suffice for their discrimi- nation. On the ground of history, a residual abscess may be suspected whenever a swelling, not altogether unlike an abscess, appears in or near a part that has long previously been the seat of an inflammation, especially if it appears or greatly increases soon after anything has im- paired the general health. The treatment does not differ from that of ordinary abscesses ; absorption is very rare, and the suppuration ought rather to be promoted. " The healing of discharged residual abscesses is quicker and attended with much less disturbance than the healing of first abscesses of the same size and in similar situations." (' St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,' v, 79.) Surgical value of cicatrices.—Mr. Pridgin Teale calls attention to the surgical importance of the fact that tissues dependent on a cicatrix for their blood supply become atrophied. His attention was first called to this by the behaviour of part of a conjunctival growth on the cornea, remaining after the greater part had been removed, and nourished only by vessels passing through a cicatrix. In the course of eighteen months the portion left on the cornea had dwindled and become transparent. Mr. Teale endeavours to show that this tendency to atrophy may be used in the treatment of—(«) symblepharon, (b) cutaneous naevus, (c) subcutaneous nsevus, (d) rhinoplastic surgery, (e) growths encroaching on the cornea, (/') syndectomy; also in cases of tumours not amenable to extirpation by ordinary methods, (b) If a portion of skin covering a nsevus, and itself nevoid, be left after the removal of the neevus, it will become quite natural in appearance in course of time. (<?) A sub- cutaneous nsevus was split in two by an ecraseur chain passed round it beneath the skin. The two halves could only unite by cicatrix. The whole shrivelled up. (d) If the pedicle of a transplanted flap of skin be divided the flap is very liable to dwindle after some time, hence Mr. Teale never divides the pedicle. (/) Syndectomy, or the operation of removing a portion of conjunctiva round the whole circumference of the cornea, to induce atrophy of enlarged vessels over the cornea, is a case in point. " There are many abnormal growths of slow progress, such as fibrous tumours of the uterus, which at some period of their career become almost stationary—nay, even recede and undergo atrophy, in which the.nutrition is so nicely poised that a small variation of nutritive power determines their increase or decrease." Wasting of large growths during a serious illness, shrinking of large fibroids of the uterus after boring and internal bruising, and of various tumours after subcutaneous crushing and breaking up, are all probably due to the production of in- ternal cicatrices. " May we not hope, like the French surgeon (Thierry),