UEPOItT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 506 regarded as a drink. He then adduces a striking instance* of a case perfectly illustrating Pettenkofer's theory—intercourse of infected persons, sinking of soil water, epidemic of enteric fever. But no un- known influence had here to be invoked, for he shows that, other con- ditions being the same, only the drinkers of one particular sort of water were affected with fever ; and he then shows how this particular water got contaminated. He, moreover, affirms that the instances cited by Pettenkofer appear to have exclusively been those of places which derived their water-supply from the ground beneath them, and that the latter adduces no proof to show that this water was not peculiarly exposed to the contamination in the sinking of water in the soil. It appears, from the experience of seven large towns which Dr. Buchanan has visited, that when lowering of ground-water is brought about while drinking water is being supplied, not from the soil of the place, but from exter- nal sources, Pettenkofer's experiences, obtained from places which do derive their water-supply from their own soil, fail of application. Dr. Buchanan admits that subsidence of ground-water is a condition favor- able to the epidemic prevalence of enteric fever, yet is of opinion that the qualification is wanted " where in the town or place the supply of drinking water is derived from the soil upon which the town stands;" and then the conditions to which Pettenkofer calls attention will range themselves under the more general etiological head of circumstances assisting in defiling supplies of drinking water. Pettenkofer replies,f and shows that Buchanan is mistaken in some of his inferences, and that those parts of Munich which are supplied with pure drinking water from an unquestionable external source have enjoyed no special immunity from enteric fever and cholera. His papers reiterate much that has before been said, but also contain much new matter bearing upon the controversy which will repay perusal. Enteric Fever caused by Impure Milk. Dr. BallardJ has published a very able and most instructive account of a localised outbreak of typhoid fever in Islington, in which he clearly and indubitably traces the cause of the outbreak to the use of milk con- taminated with water from an underground tank supplied with water by the New Eiver Company, but into which, by means of rat-burrows, sewer gases, and probably even liquid sewage, were admitted. This tank had not been opened or inspected for years. When opened, some inches at one side were found destroyed by rats. This allowed the water to flow over into a hole in the ground, evidently scooped out by rats, and leading to certain underground rat-burrows, by which, when the tank was filling, the water flowed into some old brick drains and watercloset drains close by. Through these underground channels there was free communication between the tank and the sewers; not only could water run away from the tank into the draius, but foul gases from the drains were sure to pass back into the tank. Shortly * ' Twelfth Rep. of Med. Officer of Privy Council/ p. 72. t 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1870, i, pp. 629, 661, 687. % ' On a Localised Outbreak of Typhoid Fever in Islington, during the Months ot July and August, 1870.' Pamphlet.