199 DRliSSINOS TO WOUNDS. discbarges are the essential source of the insalubrity of surgical wards; and that when this is effectually suppressed, other conditions, which we are accustomed to regard as most pernicious, become powerless to produce serious evil. It is obvious that the facts recorded in this paper are of extreme importance with reference to the vexed question of hospital construction. "With the view of assimilating the atmospheric condition of our large hospitals to that of a private dwelling, it has been lately proposed to do away with them altogether in their present form, and to substitute for them a congeries of cast-iron cottages, capable of being occasionally taken down, cleansed, and reconstructed, —a plan which, besides involving enormous expense, would interfere most seriously with efficient supervision of the patients and with the teaching of students at the bedside." " A degree of salubrity equal to that of the best private houses has been obtained in peculiarly unhealthy vrards of a very large hospital by simply enforcing strict attention to the antiseptic principle." " The antiseptic system is continually attracting more and more attention in various parts of the world ; and whether in the form it has now reached, or in some other and more perfect shape, its universal adoption can be only a question of time. The noble institutions of which our country is justly proud, admirably adapted alike for the treatment of the sick and the instruction of the student, will then be cleared of the only blot that now attaches to them—the malignant influence of impure atmosphere." (c Lancet,' Jan. 1 and 8, 1870.) 3Ir. Lister records his further experience (at Edinburgh) of the increased salubrity of a hospital in consequence of the employment of antiseptic treatment, and publishes a letter from Prof. Saxtorph, of Copenhagen, detailing the great advantages experienced at Copenhagen since the adoption of Mr. Lister's plan. (' Lancet,' Aug. 27, 1870.) Petroleum.—Dr. Eayrer has been using petroleum (or earth oil) as an antiseptic dressing for wounds. He uses it undiluted, or diluted with equal parts of oil or glycerine. It has some deodorising power; it appears also to have that of limiting suppuration and retarding decomposition. It is also useful as a stimulating and detergent appli- cation to sloughing and ulcerating surfaces. ('Med. Times and G-az.,' Jan. 22, 1870.) Cere-cloth.—Mr. Lund writes on the use of antiseptic cere-cloth in the treatment of wounds. It is cloth, or thin calico, saturated with waxy matter in the form of solid paraffin, to which are added a little oil and wax, with carbolic acid in certain proportions. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 4, t86q.) Sulphurous acid dressing to wounds.—Mr. Balfour ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' June, 1869, p. 1067) has found a wash of sulphurous acid— one part to twelve of water—very useful in the treatment of contused wounds. Carded oakum.—Mr. Pollock has been using carded oakum witli con- siderable advantage. The tarry odour masks foul smells, and the discharge is absorbed. (' Lancet,' Jan. 8, 1870 )