314 REPORT ON SURGERY. and seized with a broad flat forceps. By a twisting motion the nerve if it have been completely divided in the inferior orbital fissure, is rea- dily drawn out, and is then cut off at its entrance into the soft 'parts of the cheek. If the nerve be not readily withdrawn, the first stage of the operation must be repeated. This operation has the advantages of only slightly injuring the orbit and leaving only a slight scar over the infra-orbital foramen. With regard to the question whether the wounding of the infra-orbital arterv and, perhaps, also, of the internal maxillary, may not be attended with unpleasant consequences, Langenbeck remarks that the first-named artery is probably always wounded, as the knife must be carried close against the posterior edge of the orbital process of the upper jaw-bone. In the case on which he operated, however, there was only some slight extravasation, denoted, for some days after the operation, by slight doughiness of the tissues between the eye and the outer wall of the orbit. The internal maxillary artery can only be wounded by carrying the knife more deeply than is necessary towards the pterygo-palatine fossa. E. Assmann describes, iu the ' Archiv fur Klin. Chirurgie,' xi, a case in which Dr. Hahn operated, according to Langenbeck's method, for division of the infra-orbital nerve. The patient was a woman, aged 63, who had for twelve years suffered severely from neuralgia of the fifth nerve, on the left side. There was rather considerable extravasation of blood into the loose cellular tissue of the orbit—a circumstance which Assmann regards important, as denoting the probable, if not certain, division of the nerve. The nerve, having been drawn out of the orbit, was cut off to the extent of about four centimetres. The patient felt relieved immediately after the operation. Cold water was applied to the eye, a light, compressive bandage was placed over, and the edges of the wound on the cheek were brought together by plaster. At the end of three days there had been but little suppuration, the wound was healing, the extravasated blood had become absorbed, and the neuralgia had totally disappeared. The patient was obliged to return to her home at a distance from Berlin, and no further account of the case could be obtained. Dr. C. Hueter, of Greifswald, describes, in the 'Archiv fur Klin. Chirurgie, xi, a case in which he performed excision of the infra-orbital and lingual nerves. A man, aged 54, came under his care in Nov. 1868, with neuralgia of the fifth nerve on the right side. In September, 1867, neurectomy had been performed on the right supra-orbital and infra-orbital nerves, on account of neuralgia, the operation on the latter nerve being done after Malgaigne's plan, in which the floor of the orbit is divided. The operations, as far as these two nerves were concerned, were quite successful; but, in the autumn of 1868, violent neuralgia set in, in the course of the lingual and inferior maxillary nerves, especially the latter. The application of the continuous gal- vanic current gave no relief, and, at the request of the patient, Dr. Hueter operated on Dec. 15, 1868. A semilunar incision was made, commencing at the hinder part of the ramus of the lower jaw, passing round the angle for about two centimetres, and then upwards to the inner edge of the ramus. The flap, consisting of skin, masseter