83 LEUCIIJSMIA. found in the liver, which was pale, but otherwise healthy. The spleen was large, with its Malpighian corpuscles increased in size, but there was nothing abnormal, as the microscope showed, either in it or in the thymus; the stomach presented several nodules of the same kind, of the size of peas. All alike consisted, microscopically, of lymph-cells in a finely granular stroma. The lymph-glands were but slightly enlarged • the white and red blood-cells were remarkably diminished. 3Ioss (' Statistical Eeport of Health of Navy for 1868,' App. ii) is convinced, from the observations of a few years, that in the navy, at least, an increase of the colourless blood-corpuscles is a frequent accom- paniment of certain disordered states of health, arising apparently from rapid change of climate, and declaring themselves after unusual expo- sure to fatigue; that it is neither a mere leucocytosis, nor has it the fatai character or absolute permanence of leucocytha?mia; that it is accompanied by enlargement and induration of lymphatic inguinal glands (Virchow's 'Lymphatic Leuchajmia'). Caton ('Brit. Med. Journ,' 1870, ii, 188) gives a case,with autopsy, of general enlargement of the lymphatic glands, and temperature of 102 —103 , in a boy jet. 8 years. Hofinan ('Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1870, 984) gives minute analyses, with tables, of the urine in a case of splenic leucocythsmia in a man at. 30, the symptoms of whose disease he gives. He measured not only the urea and uric acid, but all other elements of the urine His con elusions are :-(i) the colouring matter is increased, either from greater destruction of the red-cells, or from an abnormal derivative of the colouring matter of the blood, itself having strong colouring capacity fhQ e<l n 1 am°Unt °f the PbosPbates ^ considerably diminished, those of the alkalies more than the earthy phosphates (3) The quantity of the excreted chlorine, sulphuric acid, and crea- tin undergoes no change. (4) In contrast to numerous other cases, in which the diminution of urea was very great, m this there was no decrease (St l\t^ aCld5 absol.utel7 * proportion to-the urea. (6) Eanke s view that the diminution of urea cannot be completely thL cie ^ hj ^ mCreaSe °f Uric acid> seems confirmed by of 00^ iDCreaSe ^ Uri° d°eS n0t dePend on a febrile condition Thf- n?rmual aua?!% of urea appears to correspond with the view that the diminished oxidation is the cause of incomplete decomnositio^ ■ of the uric acid, and so its increased excretion. P decomPoslfclon 1,™ \u- imP088lble,t0 .recognise with any certainty the presence of hypoxanthm, though lactic acid and albumen are met with the last -the uriDrin liuISmif rCH' \ ^) detailB especially his researches on toe urine m leuchamna. He finds the uric acid increased W fnll™- SaleinterVati°nf t S,CheT aQd h° S 225 of Ztenu Jw Pr"ducVul08ely resembl^g it may occur in the urine £ t£t t nrcSn^ 7 th,8.affectlon> ifc =»y also be found in health, inac It3 presence is of no diagnostic value.