09 REI.APSIXO VEVm—SUNSTROKE. allowed to eat as they wished; H. took nourishment relatively rich in fat and hydrocarbons, with more than twice as much nitrogen as E • the food of the latter was not only poorer in nitrogen, but contained for the same quantity of nitrogen less combustion-matter. From the composi tion of the food it was evident that H. assimilated daily, after the fever from four to five grammes of nitrogen; E., on the contrary, who during convalescence was in a condition of partial hunger, assimilating only from 1-5 to 2 grammes. He concludes from his observations that the waste products of albuminous matter were not excreted on the day on which the increase in temperature had occurred ; but as it is not pro- bable that the final products of albuminous matter can stay so long in the organism without being excreted, the only change that can take place must be one from organized to assimilable albumen (Vorraths- eiweiss) ; or, as seems more likely to the author, from these two observations (the decrease in the excretion of nitrogen following more slowly in the patient who was insufficiently nourished than in the one who took richer food), organised albumen (Organseiweiss) undergoes, during the fever, a decomposition into a non-nitrogenous product, which is perhaps used up, and into a still more complicated nitrogenous residue, which is decomposed only at a subsequent period. Erom the fact that the increased excretion of nitrogen occurs only after the rise in temperature, it may be concluded that in febrile attacks rapidly succeeding each other an accumulation of nitrogen may take place. lliess, " Beobachtungen iiber Febris Recurrens," ' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1860 327 %%1 • Obermeier, " Ueber das Wiederkehrende Fieber" '^Virch. Arch.,' xlvii, 161'; Pastau' " Die erste Epidemie von Febr. Recurrens in Schlesien," ib., 282; Frantzel" Ueber Knsen und Delirien bei Febr. Recurrens," ib., xlix, 127; Lebert, "Beitrage zur Kennt- niss des Biliosen Typhoids nebst Beschreibung eines seltenen Falles von Typhus Re- currens," ' Deut. Archiv/ vi, 501; Duffin and Kelly, « Cases of Relapsing Fever," <Med Times and Gaz.,' 1869, ii, 430; Lebert, " Aetiologie und Statistik des Riickfallstyphus und aes Flecktyphus in Breslau in den Jahren 1868 und 1869," 'Deut. Archiv' vii 385 ; Schultzen, « Ueber den Stickstoffumsatz bei Febris Recurrens," 'Ann. der Charite- Jvrankenh.,' xv, 153 ; and see several papers in the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870. Insolatio (SunstroJce). Xolan ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' 1869, xlvii, 72), after remarking that the most common cause of sunstroke is an elevation of temperature ranging from 1040 to 1200 and 1250 E. in the shade; that the disease is rarely epidemic at a temperature below 1020; and that isolated cases occur at all times on foreign stations, irrespective of the degree of solar heat, from enfeebled health, or want of due precaution; describes the following varieties: (a) Characterised by suddenness of accession and abruptly fatal termination, usually occurring about 3 or 4 p.m., rarely before midday, the autopsy showing congestion of the lungs amounting almost to blackness, the rigor mortis and great heat of body being persistent for a considerable time. To this form the term " sunstroke " is particularly applicable. r J (fj) Characterised by premonitory symptoms (weariness, exhaustion, irequent sighing, desire for sleep), comparative slowness of accession, and long duration.