145 PHTHISIS. in such cases shows affections of the spleen and lymph-glands, and thromboses. Starcke ('Deut. Arch.,' vii, 212) recognised a dilatation of the lach- rymal canal in a number of casos, and found that it occurred mainly in patients suffering from chronic lung affections. It appeared as a tumour at the inner angle of the eye, which swelled with each expecto- ration, or only in the attempt, by forcibly expiring and closing the mouth and nose, to drive air and fluid through the lower lachrymal opening. It originates, according to him, in an insufficiency of the valvular apparatus of the lachrymal canal caused by the strong and frequent expiratory movements during cough. Performers on wind instruments ougbt to present the affection frequently. Isnard ('Bull. Gen.deTkerap,'t. 77,551) recounts what he has already written on the treatment of phthisis by arsenic, and sums up what he considers its effects to be—diminution of pyrexia and of night sweats, a natural state of skin, improvement in appetite, digestion, and nutri- tion, disappearance of vomiting, diarrhoea and constipation, gain of flesh. In the lung itself, cicatrization of cavities, attested, according to him, by lessened cough and oppression, diminished secretion and expectora- tion, and abortion of the tubercles (!). Cersoy ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, 557) describes the local action of arsenic in phthisis, which he asserts to be a process of " decongestion." It causes a removal of the congestion, first of the bronchial mucous membrane, and next of the peritubercular lung-tissue, the latter being more slow but not more certain. He gives two cases to show this, in which the disappearance of blood from the sputa seems to have struck him with wonder. Trelat ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1870, i, 35) calls attention to certain ulcers of the mouth and tongue (" phthisie buccale, ulceres tubercu- leux"), and claims to have demonstrated their origin in the ulceration of true tubercles. They are said to have been observed in tuberculous patients, and may precede, though they generally follow, pulmonary tuberculosis. Their diagnosis is easy at all periods of the malady. They occur, without any assignable cause, as chronic, obstinate, super- ficial ulcers, with red irregular edges, and without any neighbouring adenitis; their depth varies, but they never present ragged and under- mined edges, or hard and prominent granulations. Brehmer's theory (' Die chronische Lungenschwindsucht und Tuber- culoseder Lunge: ihreUrsache undihre Heilung,' 2teAufl.,Berlin i860) is that phthisis depends on a habitus characterised by a long, large chest and lungs, and a small, weak, flabby heart; and that this disproportion leads to starvation of lung-tissue, catarrhal pneumonia, and cheesy products, &c. He holds that elevated regions increase the force and frequency of the heart's action, and so cure the disease. Weber ('Med.-Chir. Trans,' Hi, 225) publishes seventeen cases in lavour of a prolonged residence in elevated regions in certain forms of consumption Four of them terminated fatally at a later period, the rest were greatly benefited. Of the four fatal cases, autopsies were made in two and showed that they had been cured of one attack of pneumonic phthisis and died of a second. More prolonged residence in elevated 10