TYPHUS—ItELAPSING PEViUt. (57 fatal, without autopsy), bearing " on the excretion of urea in typhus in relation to the temperature." Beveridge ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, i, 435), having demon- strated, in 1865, the existence of extensive enlargement of the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic in a case of exophthalmic goitre, was led to examine the fatal cases of typhus in the epidemic prevailing at Aber- deen from 1863 to 1865. He gives briefly five cases (he found the same appearances in ten), in which he observed this lesion in the form of enlargement caused by the presence of a granular amorphous matter scattered in the substance of the ganglia, and rendering them not only larger, but firmer and harder than usual. He considers this affection of the ganglia in typhus to be analogous to that of the follicles in typhoid, and grounds on it a theory as to the cause of the brain symptoms and the impaired heart-action in the former disease. Thompson ('Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med.,' 1869, xlviii, p. 103) records a case illustrating the effect of quinine in typhus, in which the resolution of the fever is said to have been complete on the second day of its exhibition and on the thirteenth of the disease, the change having commenced on the eleventh. "Wallace (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869, i, 535) gives three cases of the treatment of typhus by carbolic acid, and concludes that it does not cut short the course of the disease, or prevent septic poisoning or the irri- tative fever subsequent to the original affection. Schroder (' Deut. Archiv f. Klin. Med.,' vi, s. 385), in a short paper on the influence of cold baths on the excretion of carbonic acid and urea m typhus, gives the results of his observations in nine cases (one of them enteric fever), and concludes that they cause marked diminution hi the excretion of both products, and consequently retard tissue change. Relapsing Fever. Bernhardt (' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1869, s. 15) records three cases of recurrent fever, observed in the Konigsberg clinique, affecting two Polish Jews and a Jewess, and imported, probably, from Eussia. In two eases the third attack followed the second with only an interval of a single day, and lasted only one day. In all the cases the spleen was considerably enlarged, the liver in two cases only showing a slight increase in size. Mowing on these three cases, besides which several occurred m the town, one was observed in the clinique which should probably be looked upon as a case of bilious typhus. It was accompanied with, at first, bilious, then bloody vomiting, profuse diarrhoea, hemat- uria, marked icterus, delirium, and swelling and tenderness of liver The enlargement of the spleen was trifling. In "the bloody albuminous urine the bile acids could be recognised, while' Gmelin's test failed to show the presence of the colouring matter of bile. Mosler (see ib., s. 334) observed twenty-seven cases of the disease in Greiftwald, between March, 1868, and April, 1869. With the ex- ception of two hospital attendants, who caught the infection, the patients attacked were labourers from elsewhere ; in all, the different stages of