REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 132 Letzerich (' Virch. Arch.,' xlv, 327) argues in favour of a purely epi- phytic character as the essential part of the disease; lie even assigns the genus to Zygodesmus (Z. fuscus), belonging to the family Clado- sporidae. Leube (' Dcut. Arch.,' vi, 266) contributes a case which bears upon the action of the larynx. While the movements of the cords in re- spiration and phouation wero normal, or, perhaps, slightly inactive, the epiglottis stood completely erect, leaning against the tongue, and re- maining in this position. There was complete anaesthesia of the mucous membrane of the larynx; no reflex movements were provoked by touch- ing the epiglottis, aryteno-epigottidean folds, the false cords, and arytenoid cartilages, or even the free margin of the vocal cords; only when the sound had passed below the glottis did fits of coughing occur. Thus, solids and fluids produced no reflex action in the upper and middle parts of the larynx, though sometimes after swallowing fluids cough was provoked, especially if they got below the glottis. The patient was nourished by the oesophageal tube alone for ten days, in which time 0*015 grm. of strychnine were injected daily under the skin. By this treatment the above condition had at the end of that time disappeared. She could eat without coughing; and the laryngoscope showed strong reflex movements on touching the mucous membrane over the vocal cords, and a distinct rising and falling of the epiglottis. G-erhardt (' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1869, 45) gives a case of diphtheritis in a woman, set. 26, with paralysis of the apparatus closing the larynx, and long-continued diphtheria of the sinus pyriformis (sacculus laryngis), cured by faradisation of the larynx. The patient was fed exclusively by the oesophageal tube for thirty-two days. Gray ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, i, 141) publishes a case of ahoy, set. 9, who died from the secondary toxic effect of the diphtheritic poison on the nerve centres. He was admitted into hospital with debility, dull, pale skin, vacant expression, ptosis of left eyelid and outward squint of left eye, and ataxic gait. The only history obtained was one of " cold on the chest" eight weeks before; two days before death he swallowed with difficulty, and could not expectorate the mucus which loaded his bronchi, and the day before, it was ascertained that at and after the time of his illness he had had sore throat, difficulty of swallow- ing and regurgitation of fluids through the nose. The autopsy showed no morbid appearances whatever. Orr ('Glasg. Med. Journ.,' 1869, 395) reports four cases of nasal diphtheria occurring in the same family, in children of the ages of 7 months, 2^, 4I, and 9 years, the two youngest dying under the ex- haustion of the disease. The earliest symptom in the three first cases was a very acrid discharge from the nose, with fever. Gairdner adds, at the end of the paper, another fatal case of the same kind in a baby. TJllersperger ('Journ. f. Kinderkrank.,' 1870, Iv, 451) quotes from Gallucci that an epidemic of Angina diphtherica in Ibrail, a Roumanian town on the Danube, with about 30,000 inhabitants, had latterly attacked 700 individuals within sixteen months, the fatal cases being 50 per cent.