liHPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 1SS In a report on hydroa and allied diseases (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 490 and 546, ii, 86 and 702) attention is drawn to certain curious cases of constitutional disturbance, accompanied by a skin eruption, to which Bazin recently gave this name. Its closer relation- ship seems to be with the special forms of erythema and urticaria. Like them, it usually, though by no means always, has a definite dura- tion, and disappears spontaneously ; but it differs from them in that its eruption is attended with the development of vesicles, or even small bulla?; and it is the risk of mistaking it, on the one hand, for variola or varicella, and, on the other, and more especially, for syphilis, that the practical importance of recognising it lies. From eczema and pem- phigus it is distinguished as well by other points in its clinical history, as by its being always symmetrical, never allowing the back of the hands, and scarcely ever the lace, to escape. It is essentially a form of Hebra's erythema multiforme. The history of eighteen cases is given, including four of Bazin's, and at p. 70a are tabulated for comparison. Wardell, "Erythema Circinatum," 'Lancet,' 1870, ii, 333; Bell, "Erythema Multi- forme covering nearly the whole surface of the Body, and passing into Herpes," ih., 633. Urticaria.—Martin ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1869, p. 259) read before the Societe de Medecine de Paris a paper on " Spontaneous Urticaria." A man, set. 52, suffered from contusion of the lumbar region, from an acci- dent, with slight excoriation and ecchymosis. Cupping, followed by linseed-meal poultices, was the treatment adopted. A quarter of an hour later his right eye was suddenly attacked with itching and smart- ing, succeeded by great swelling and redness of the lids. The lower lip, palate, face, and left eye, were next attacked, though more slightlv ; then the hands, head, breast, loins, and, lastly, the whole body. With this occurred attacks of syncope, cough, pyrosis, and tenesmus. After discussing the probable causes of the eruption, the author decides in favour of the poultices, which lie alleges were made of stale and rancid linseed-meal. Nettleship, Vialls, Waren Tay, "Rare Forms of Urticaria," ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869, i'> 323- Eczema.— Schwimmer (' Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1869, p. 1664) gives two cases of eczema erythematosum (Erasmus Wilson), in which occurred a red, isolated, and confluent eruption, with smooth surface, and trifling desquamation here and there. They were chronic in their course and accompanied with itching. Fox (' Lancet,' 1870, ii, 184) records an unusual form of eczema labialis, occurring in two men, and caused, according to their account, by cold. It consisted of an oval, elastic, tender swelling, extending half an inch laterally from side to side of the frrenuni of the nose, and from above downwards to near the junction of the mucous membrane and the skin. It was produced by an inflammation of the hair-follicles, implicating the fibrous tissue round about to a greater extent than usual. There was no free crusting, as in impetigo labialis, nor was the the case of the rheumatic patient the affection seems, in many particulars, to resemble urticaria.—A. B. S.