282 ItEPOllT ON SURGERY. A case treated by flexion for four weeks before admission, by pressure with Carte's apparatus for twenty-one hours without success, and then by digital compression for thirty-seven hours with cessation of pulsation was under the care of Dr. Keith. (« Brit. Med. Journ ' April 2 1870.) 1 ' Dr. P. H. Watson records a case in which the pressure of a weiylit secured obliteration of the superficial femoral in twenty-four hours. The pulsation returned in the aneurism, however, owing to the large anastomotic branch of the profunda. Pressure on the common femoral for forty-eight hours ended in a permanent cure. ('Edin. Med. Journ.' April, 1870.) Rapid cure by manipulation, flexion, and digital compression.—Prof. Blackman, in the 1 Western Journal of Medicine' (Jan., 1869), records the following. E. B—, an American, act. 25, had noticed a popliteal aneurism ten weeks. Prof. Blackman remarked that he would try the obstruction of the artery on the distal side of the tumour, as advocated by Dr. Mapother, and manipulation of the tumour, recommended by Sir W. Eergusson, and digital compression in the groin. As it would be impossible to shut off the current of blood by pressure on the distal side, he would adopt Hart's flexion method. The knee was flexed (the tumour having been manipulated), and firm digital compression applied to the femoral below Poupart's ligament. At the end of thirty minutes only a slight thrill was felt. At the end of sixty-eight minutes the leg was strapped to the thigh, and the patient left. The next day the flexion was diminished. No further treatment was necessary. Was seen two months later, was still cured. ('Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences,' July, 1869.) Treatment by compression.—Dr. Patrick Heron Watson records two cases of successful treatment of aneurism by compression in the 'Edin. Med. Journ.,' May, 1869. The first was one of popliteal aneurism. Hart's flexion method was tried for a time without success, then pressure by means of weights for a month. Then a weight of 12 lb. was applied continuously for forty-two hours, at the end of which time pulsation in the sac ceased. Exertion on the part of the patient brought on a recurrence of pulsation, and pressure was again applied with success. In the second case the aneurism was just below Poupart's ligament. A 12 lb. weight was continuously applied for seventy-two hours with the effect of procuring cessation of pulsation. Consolida- tion of the sac had occurred at the end of twenty-four hours, and the pressure had been continued, as was shown later by pulsation in the superficial femoral. Dr. Watson found a 12 lb. leaden weight, rounded at the end like the large end of an egg, the most convenient. He insists strongly on the necessity of watching that the weight is constantly applied night and day, so that the pulsation is completely stopped. Less pressure for a long time will ultimately produce the same result, but the former plan 13, in most cases, to be preferred. Some valuable remarks are