4 TEMPBUATUllL! AND FEVER. •1.9 Lag with Liebermeister, Wunderlich, &c, that the observation ou»ht not to be cousidered complete till the mercury has remained stationary for live minutes, he gives the following as the time required for the tliree positions:— Beotum from 3 to 6 minutes. Mouth (under tongue) „ 9 to 11 „ Axilla „ 11 to 24 „ (extreme cases excepted). The variation, of course, depends on the fact that the two latter positions have to attain, so to speak, the fixity of temperature which the first naturally has, that of a closed cavity: this may, to some extent, be brought about by the closure of either mouth or axilla for some time, —ten to fifteen minutes before the introduction of the thermometer, the ball of which has been already warmed, so as not to abstract heat. [His remarks on heating the thermometer to a point beyond the tem- perature of the mouth, refer of course to a non-registering instrument.] Tmlayson ('Glasgow Med. Journ.,' 1869, p. 186, "On the normal temperature of childi-en ") gives fifteen tables of temperatures observed in as many children, and concludes that 1. The daily range of temperature is greater in the healthy child than that recorded in healthy adults, his observations giving a mean range of between 20 and 3° H\ 2. There is invariably a fall of temperature in the evening, amounting to from i° to 30. 3. The most striking fall usually occurs between seven and nine p.m. 4. The minimum temperature seems usually to be reached at or before two a.m. 5. The temperature usually begins to rise between two and four a.m., while the child is still sleeping, and before food has been taken. 6. Fluctuations between nine a.m. and five p.m. are usually trininf. 7. There seems to be no very definite, or at least obvious, relation between the frequency of the pulse and respiration, and the amount of normal temperature. It would be impossible to abstract with any justice a paper by Senator (" Beitriige zur Lehre von der Eigenwarme und dem Eieber," H irch. Archiv,' xlv, 351) on temperature in health and disease, especially on that of fever, containing the results of experiments on artificially heated animals, and tables of temperature. In the same journal (xlvi, 390 will be found remarks by Breuer on this paper, together with Senator's answer (ib., 507). The latter contributes a further paper (1D> ]. 354) on the variations of temperature caused by cooling the surface of the body by free admission of air, sponging, &c, with com- parisons of the temperature indicated by the thermometer in the axilla ; and rectum, and experiments, with full tables of observations, on a ! healthy adult. Falch (ib., xlix, 457) publishes minute details, with curves of the 1 temperature observed, of experiments on dogs and rabbits poisoned with 1 phosphorus (five cases), strychnia, morphia, nicotine, &c. .f +fWSy of,Ka8an (ib-> xlvii> 352) records experiments on rabbits as to the effect of sulphate of quinine on the temperature and circulation : with tables of the former, and sphygmographic curves.