213 EXCISIONS OF JOINTS. of the 08 calcis ; then the skin, with the periosteum and the peroneal tendons, are loosened from the outer side of the os calcis; the skin of the heel is then raised, with the periosteum and the tendo Achillis • aud lastly, the integument of the inner side of the foot is separated, with the periosteum, from the os calcis. In similar manner, proceed- ing round from without inwards, the skin and periosteum are separated from the astragalus. Third stage.—The bones are removed. For this purpose the joint is opened at the outer, posterior, and inner parts, and, finally, in front, the heel being drawn downwards and the knife introduced from behind. By drawing down still more the os calcis and astragalus, the scaphoid bone is brought within reach, and is denuded of its periosteum. The joints between the os calcis and cuboid bones, and between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, are then opened, and the bones are removed. The lateral parts of the flap are united by sutures, the hinder part being left open to allow the escape of pus. The wound is dressed with charpie, and the foot is either put up in a fenestrated plaster of Paris bandage or in a wooden splint with an opening at the heel. In Lehmann's case the result was the following:— Suppuration ceased eight weeks after the operation, and four weeks later, i. e. three months ofter the operation, the foot had a perfectly sound appearance. The man could use it in the same way as a healthy foot, without the use of a stick and without lameness. Excision of the elbow.—Mr. Maunder ('Lancet,' Jan. 2, 1869) notes that of seven cases in which he performed primary excision of the elbow-joint two died. In one of these there was also compound frac- ture of the skull, and in the second the cause of death was pyaemia. The other five recovered with useful limbs ; flexion, extension, supina- tion, and pronation, being secured to all in varying proportions. A case of subperiosteal resection of the elbow by Mr. Stokes is noted in 'Dub. Quart. Journ.,' Feb. 1870. Excision of olecranon ulnae.—Mr. Birkett, in a case of disease of the olecranon following a blow, made a longitudinal incision over the back of it, opened the elbow-joint, sawed off the olecranon only, and then dressed with wet lint. In three months the patient, a man, jet. 19, had the wound healed, with a stiff and swollen elbow. In another five months the joint was quite well. There was some slight movement, and the joint was strong and useful. (' Lancet,' March 27, 1869.) Excision of the hip.—In the ' Medical Times and Gazette, April 3, 1869, Dr. B. B. Good compares the relative mortality after excision of the hip in England and in France. He gives statistics of thirty-two cases in England, of which eleven died, and of fourteen cases in France, of which twelve died. He thinks the French surgeons leave the operation till it is too late. Excision of the knee.—Mr. Pemberton insists on the want of growth following excision of the knee in children, and on the flexion which often occurs, after some time, in cases in which there was every evidence of firm bony union having occurred. (' Lancet,' July 9, 1870.)