IX0CULABIL1TY OF TUBERCLE. S7 'Journ. of Anat. and Phys.,' v. 37; Lankester (E. R.), "On some Migrations of Cells" (wider than the subject of inflammation), 'Quart. Journ. of Micro. Sci.,' 1870, p. 265, Inoculcibility of Tubercle.—Tuberculosis. It would be absurd to attempt, at any rate at present, to draw any conclusions from the numerous experiments, still proceeding, as to the contagion and specific nature of tubercle ; it will be seen, from the fol- lowing abstracts that, however differently the facts may be interpreted, they still present, in detail, great agreement. Besides this a large ele- ment of confusion exists in the use of the word " tubercle," by many of the observers, alike for true miliary granulations and for cheesy deposits (degenerations). Cohnheim's and Frankel's conclusions from their experiments (' Vir- chow's Archiv,' xlv, p. 216) differ materially from Villemin's, but agree in most particulars with those of Sanderson and Pox. They made use of guinea-pigs, which are not so subject, at least in Berlin, to parasitic growths in the liver and lungs ; and into their peritoneal cavity they in- troduced the inoculating substances, afterwards sewing up the wound. The greater number of the animals so operated upon died of peritonitis; the rest survived the operation, and served for further researches. To prove first the identity of miliary tuberculosis in man and these ani- mals, they inoculated the latter with small pieces of lung, containing : miliary tubercles, from the body of a man who had died of general tuber- culosis. The only one that survived the operation died thirty-three days after inoculation, and showed at the autopsy (which is given in full) a very thick and rich eruption of fine miliary tubercles in peritoneum, . liver, spleen, pleura, lungs, and choroid—in short, the exact picture of ; general miliary tuberculosis, agreeing in every respect, to the naked eye ; and microscopically,, with that occurring in man. They had been at the ; pains to observe that in all the guinea-pigs they had killed, and even in : those which had been operated upon and which had died soon after, the 1 organs were intact. The next question they set themselves to answer was whether this artificial tuberculosis owed its existence to a specific • virus; and, after inoculating other guinea-pigs with cancer, condylo- 1 mata, sarcoma, and healthy tissue, as well as with gutta-percha, charpie, &c, they found the same results as in the first experiments. In all 1 there was at the place of introduction of the foreign body a circum- l scribed abscess, enclosed in a richly vascular capsule, from the size of a hazel nut to that of an apple, with inodorous, white, viscid contents, •showing under the microscope highly refracting shining nuclei with lively molecular movements, and shrivelled and degenerated pus-cells. To prove that these degenerated elements were the cause of the tuber- culosis, they injected into the jugular vein of two other guinea-pigs a liquid consisting of cheesy pus from a capsule and axillary abscess of an artificially inoculated animal, in a solution of salt and water; and in both after death was found a miliary tuberculosis, less extensive than in the hibernating state, hut did occur in strong healthy animals operated upon late in the »P«ng. Apparently, also, the process does not take place in the fish.