It K PORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 5:i suehung. von Helmholtz betrefl's des sog. Heufiebera und dessen Heiluug durch ortliche Anwendung von Chiniu," ' Berl. Klin. AVoch.,' i868.jp. 135)- Zqja and De-Giovanni (" Sopra la febbre del fieno e l'azione dcd sol- fato di chiaino sn alcuni infusori," 'Gaz. Med. Ital. Lombard.,' 1869, p. 307), in a critique on the above, deny the specific natnre of hay- i'ever, and object to consider it as a new pathological entity. They are convinced from their own experiments that quinine has no noxious action on vibrios, as asserted byBinz, and they consider that Helmholtz suffered from a malarious disorder, which ran its course, as it often does, with all the symptoms of a catarrhal affection, and which was, therefore, benefited by the use of quinine. The most startling part of a paper by Ferber (" Der Niese Krampf und dessen Beziehung zur Migrane, zum Bronchial-asthma und zuin Heufieber," 'Arch, der Heilk.,' 1869, p. 567) is the assumption of the author that asthma, migraine, and hay-fever (1. c, p. 586) are con- nected with a disturbance of the circulation within the pelvis, through dilatation of its venous system, causing the blood to accumulate in cer- tain vessels—e.g. of the skin and mucous membrane of the nose, or of the lungs, and consequent reflex irritation of the vagus. Intermittent Fever. Blaxall (" On the protracted Epidemic of Fever at the Mauritius con- tinuing since 1866," 'Lancet,' 1869, i, 307) narrates two visits of H.M.S. "Urgent" to the island. She arrived in July, 1867, and re- mained seven days in the Grand Harbour, 100 yards from the north- east, and 600 yards from the opposite, shore, and though the epidemic had been raging with frightful but, at that time, diminished, intensity on land, no case showed itself on board. The ship took up the same anchorage sixteen months later, in November, 1868, at the commence- ment of the hot weather, the fever being on the increase on shore. She stayed five days, and took on board the 32nd regiment, which had suf- fered considerably during its stay on the island. On the twelfth, four- teenth, and forty-eighth days after leaving, the ship being then off the south-east coast of Africa, three cases of intermittent appeared among the crew, the individuals attacked never having suffered from malarial disease before, and never having left the ship during her stay. The first two were of the quotidian, the last of the tertian type, all showing the irregularity characteristic of the epidemic in the Mauritius, which Blaxall considers to be of a mixed type, " from the co-operation of the essential causes of paludal and typhoid fevers." Bitter (" Studien fiber Malaria-infection," 'Virch. Archiv,' xlvi, s. 316) gives an account of the epidemic in the Elbe marshes in 1868. Through the unusual heat of the summer, the ditches surrounding the fields were completely dried up, the mud at the bottom left to the direct action of the sun. The water of the Oste, the largest tributary of the Elbe in the marshes, was salt, and, from the difficulty of procuring good drinking water from the dried-up ground, the greater part of th