VARICELLA VACCINIA. 75) distinct diseases, both infectious, both causing a characteristic skin affection. He shows from a table that in Leipzig the contagion of varicella is endemic, while that of variola finds only periodically the conditions favourable to its spread. Martineau (" Petite epidemie de Varicelle,"' L'Union Med.,' 1869, vii, S35) describes several cases of varicella, the incubation period of which was thirteen days. He maintains strongly the well-marked difference separating this affection from variola and varioloid. Wolff (" Variola, Variolois, Varicella," 'Deut. Klin.,' 1869, 61) holds it is m many cases difficult to distinguish, with any certainty, varicella from varioloid. He cites a series of observations, according to which it may be taken for granted that both affections may be started by one and the same infection, and in accordance with this he assumes the affinity of these two forms of exanthein, a view directly in opposition to that of most recent authors. Bolze ('Arch. f. Derm.,' i, 318) gives the following case:—A boy, a;t. 9, was attacked with varicella and nursed by his sister, who was far advanced in pregnancy. Eight days later she gave birth to a child covered with papules of smallpox. The disease was fully developed and the child died, the mother remaining free throughout. In a note to this case Pick quotes a case of congenital variola in triplets (three boys), the mother, at the time of their birth, being in the decrustation stage ot smallpox. One child came into the world dead and somewhat macerated; the two others presented an eruption corresponding to that ot smallpox about the sixth or seventh day; one died after a few hours, the other nved two days. Tlz: ",Ei2 Beweiss dafur, dass Variolois und Varicella verschiedene Krankheiten W > a"' ■ Dfm" h 6335 Greene' "Case of Varicella in an Adult," < Brit. Med. journ., 1870, 1, 509. Vaccinia. Numerous papers will be found on this subject in the < Gaz. des ±Lop and the other French journals, more especially with regard to the discussions on vaccine in the Imperial Academy of Medicine. Melsem C Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1870, ii, 242) shows from his experi- ments that cold, about 8o° C. below zero, does not destroy the vitality or the specific action of the vaccine virus. Perroud "De la Vaccine a Lyon en 1868," <Lyon Med.,' 1860, i, t22i Ballot < Note on Vaccinat.on in Holland," 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' l86o, i/10' BallardI "On -DrLToTrirvib-- V6,v Yar,row- "Erysipelas after v£di/&» SS t Z, dSJuT« n, 1,III TvUOn A"'? a!e'" ' Bul1- de 1>Acad- de p. 428 &c. dans 2'SvnhiiS lSVf^ae'l %Jnf> Simonet- "Des Sources de la Contagion ib -4 'sPa nn " A 6i vGaZ- d6S H,6p-' l869> SHi Bonrdais, "Syphilis Vaccinale," it)., ,28, Seaton, Animal Vaccination," 'Rep. Med. Off. Priv. Counc? 1869, p. 171. Infection from Poison of Animals. Two cases are given ('Gaz. des H6p.,' 1870, 363) by Sebastiany of the symptoms caused by the bite * of the Scolopendra morsicans j one of tranZSiTr'f'.'u 8 °f-the Scol°Peridra are terminated by a sharp hook, pierced for the transmission of the poisonous fluid.—A. B. S.