I L.3 PNEUMONIA — PHTHISIS. the pulse, though less so ou tho temperature, and its effect passes off more quickly. Tartarated antimony ho does not think superior, if equal, to digitalis ; sulphate of quinine wants the constancy and intensity of effect on the pulse and temperature presented hy the other three drugs. Dauvergne, " Une Pratique de quarante ans an sujet de la Pneumonie," ' Bull. Gen. de Therap.,' t. 76, 339, &c. Peter, " Saignce ct Pneumonie," ib., 555, and ' Gaz. des Hiip.,' 1869, 245. Dauvergne, " Encore an mot sur la Pneumonie et la Saignee Si propos d'une lecon de M. Peter," ib., t. 77, 119. Bastian, "A Case of Cirrhosis of the Lung, with some of the results of an analysis of thirty cases of this disease," ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xix, 44. Powell, " Case of Pneumonia confined to the anterior base, with remarks on Chronic Basic Pneumonia," 'Lancet,' 1869, ii, 609. Bennett, "On Pneu- monia," ib, i, 603. Maclagan, " Therraomelric Observations on Pneumonia," ' Edinb. Mod. Journ.,' xiv, 684. Sturges, " Clin. Lect. on Pneumonia," 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, ii, 271. Heale, "The Physiological Rationale of Pneumonia and Bronchitis," ib., 611. Ogle, " Pneumonia, Venesection, Recovery," ib., 1870, i, 521. Stokes, " Plenritis, Sthenic Pneumonia of Right Lung, Venesection, rapid Recovery," ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870. i, 627. Sturges, " The Diagnosis of Pneumonia, and its treatment by restoratives/' •Practitioner,' iv, 321. Handfield Jones, "Two Cases of Pneumonia complicated by Nephritis," 'Lancet,' 1870, ii, 14. Phthisis. Xieineyer's views (" Einige Bermerkungen iiber das Verkaltniss der Hauioptoe zur Lungenschwindsucht." ' Berl. klin. Woch.,' 1869, 169) on the relation of haemoptysis to phthisis have become more or less known during the past two years, and it will be sufficient to refer here to his conclusions :—That all patients who suffer from haemorrhage from the capillaries of the bronchi and lungs neither are nor need become consumptive ; that phthisis frequently follows such haemorrhages, without the existence of any genetic connection between the latter and the pneumonic processes, which, as a rule, form the starting- point of pulmonary phthisis. Patients with a tendency to these haemorrhages are liable also to inflammation. Haemoptysis frequently lays the foundation for phthisis in individuals in whose lungs neither tubercles nor pneumonic deposits occur, from the fact that the blood remaining in the alveoli, and the products of inflammation provoked by it, undergo the cheesy metamorphosis. In the same way haemorrhage from the bronchi and lungs frequently accelerates the course of an already existing phthisis. In some rare cases the haemoptysis is not the cause, but the consequence, of pneumonic pro- cesses, which lead, in their further development, to consumption. Such cases are easily recognised as a generally severe pyrexia, and other symptoms of an inflammatory nature accompany or precede the haemoptysis. The blood remaining in the alveoli and, as above, under- going the cheesy transformation, frequently gives rise to an eruption of miliary tubercles. Baumler (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' ii, 83) gives three cases which seem to support Niemeyer's views; in the first two the inflammatory changes terminated in almost complete resolution ; in the third the infiltration of the luog-tissue was permanent. He concludes that profuse haemoptysis is in some cases followed by a more or less extensive