SUBHYOID P1IA11YNGOTOMY. 225 the urethra contained in it. Much haemorrhage followed, and four arteries were tied. The sound part of the rectum was now drawn down to the external wound and freed from the cancerous portion, in doing which a large quantity of solid fasces was removed. The healthy intestine was then attached to the skin by ten sutures, and four other sutures were applied to the remaining part of the wound, an elastic catheter having been first introduced through the perinamm into the bladder. The healthy part of the rectum was dilated to double its normal size; the cancerous portion was reduced, to the size of a pencil, aud contorted. It was impossible to distinguish, in the cancerous mass, the limits of the rectum, prostate, and urethra. Tor some days after the operation there was violent reaction. The temperature was 1040 Fahr., the pulse 130-140. The urine escaped through and alongside the catheter, through the wound in the peri- neum ; it contained blood, and was very offensive. The patient being at last unable to bear the catheter, Nussbaum removed it, with much benefit. On the eleventh day after the operation all the sutures were removed. A solid valvular communication had been formed between the bladder and the rectum, through which urine passed into the intes- tine, but faeces did not enter the bladder. Every two or three days there was a solid faecal evacuation; clear urine escaped through the rectum every twenty or thirty minutes. No urine passed through the wound after the nineteenth day. The operation was performed on October 14th. In the fourth week the patient was able to sit up for an hour each day, and in December he left Munich. Three months afterwards he visited Nussbaum, and was then apparently strong and healthy. In 1869 he again saw Nussbaurn, and was still contented with his state. He was, however, obliged to void urine at least every hour. If this were not done, the urine escaped in drops by the anus. During the previous year, however, he had been able to retain his urine for two or three hours at a time. On examination Nussbaum dis- covered that there were signs of a recurrence of the disease. The patient soon lost flesh, and at last died, after repeated attacks of hemorrhage. Subhyoid 'pharyngotomy.—At a meeting of the Berlin Medical Society in December, 1869, Professor Langenbeck described an operation for opening into the pharynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane. The operation had been already proposed by Malgaigne in his ' Manuel de Medecine operat.,' and by Yidal in his ' Traite de Pathologie externe;' but neither of these surgeons appear to have performed it. After de'- scribing the anatomical arrangement of the parts, Langenbeck points out that an incision in this region, just above the thyroid cartilage, opens the pharynx, and may be made for the following purposes:—To remove from the pharynx foreign bodies which cannot be taken out through the mouth, and whose presence in the pharyngo-laryngeal pouch has been clearly ascertained; to remove tumours of that portion of the pbarynx having a broad base, or arising in the wall of the pharynx between the mucous and muscular coats; to remove new growths from the epiglottis, aryepiglottic ligaments, and arytenoid cartilages. In performing the 15