43 INOCULABILITY OF TUBERCLE. were introduced into the peritoneal cavity of six rabbits, and again no trace of tubercle was found. (4) A repetition of their earlier experiments, injection of grey tuber- cle dissolved in water into the cervical and inguinal regions, was made on six rabbits. Three were killed after five months, and the others after six, and in all the lungs were crammed with grey tubercles. Some further experiments on cats, mainly with negative results, are given, and others on fowls fed on the sputa of phthisical patients, which are opposed to the views of Devillier and Lengler. They conclude that, (1) The propagation of tuberculosis from man to the rabbit, by the inoculation of grey tubercle, is a fact not to be denied ; such propaga- tion shows itself ordinarily, in the rabbit, in both lungs, and in some cases in the liver. (2) The inoculation of heterogeneous substances, or the introduction into the abdominal cavity of foreign bodies or morbid products, whether in rabbits or cats, may set up a local irritation, but no true tubercu- losis ; a pulmonary, not a general tuberculosis. (3) Tubercle is not propagated from man to the cat, nor, even more certainly, from man to fowls. Tuberculosis ? Scherenberg ('Virch. Archiv,' xlvii, s. 311) gives the antopsy of a woman, a^t. 56, in whom were found recent adherent peritonitis ; partial obliteration of the gall-bladder, which contained muco-purulent fluid and cheesy masses, thickened bile-ducts, old and fresh basilar meningi- tis, and internal hydrocephalus, and "metastatic" deposits in the apices of the lungs. According to Scherenberg we have here a repetition of Cohnheim's and Frankel's experiments, the original peritonitis, with cheesy products, exciting the other metastatic inflammations, as those authors had found; there was here also no true tuberculosis, the liability to which requires some natural disposition. Doerfler (' Deut. Archiv,' vii, s. 146) gives the history and autopsy of a female, let. 42, who during life had presented no great rise in temperature, and who died with cerebral symptoms. The post-mortem examination showed extensive basilar meningitis, with tubercles in the Sylvian fissures and immediate neighbourhood, increased fluid in the lateral ventricles, small cheesy deposits, and numerous miliary tubercles in both lungs. No enlargement or cheesiness of either bronchial or abdominal glands, and a cavity in the fourth right rib-cartilage, contain- ing thick, almost cheesy pus. This last chronic chondritis Doerfler looks upon as the starting-point of the miliary tuberculosis, of which there had been no marked symptoms during life. Behier records (!Gaz. des Hop.,'1870, p. 397) the occurrence, attended with difficulty in diagnosis, of "pulmonary and glandular tuberculosis''(?), in a blacksmith, a;t. 41, who had been perfectly healthy up to Feb., 18^9, in spite of having been employed for two years and a half in a smithy at the Isthmus of Suez; then suffered from cough, with yellowish expectoration, rapid emaciation, alternations of diarrhoea and constipa-