ABNORMAL GROWTH OP BONES. 235 conference, whereas, before tlie grafting, none was observed. The patches never wholly disappeared, but could only be seen on careful examination.* Abnormal growth of long bones.—Prof. Langenbeck communicated to the Berlin Medical Society, in 1869, an interesting contribution on a condition hitherto but little noticed; the following are the principal points. In general, the normal increase in length of the tubular bones ceases with the disappearance of the epiphyseal cartilages at about the twenty-third or twenty-fifth year of life. This growth does not depend alone on the formation of new layers at the ends of the diaphyses, but also—as was taught by Duhamel in 1743—on interstitial increase at all points. This interstitial growth, according to Langenbeck, is continued by extension of the bony substance, which, though firm, is still elastic and extensible. The normal growth in length of the bones is frequently interrupted iu rickets. In 'Virchow's Archiv fur Path. Anatomie,' 1853, v, it is stated that the normal ossification of the epiphyseal cartilages is arrested, and that these cartilages increase in circumference (forming double joints) while the shafts remain short. Humphry, in vol. xlv of the '• Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,' states that the humerus and femur are one fourth shorter in rickety subjects than in healthy individuals of the same age. Langenbeck says that this shortening is more charac- teristic and constant in rickety bones than bending and deficiency of earthy matter. The arrest of the growth of the bones in paralysed limbs is an inte- resting subject. Langenbeck has repeatedly seen growth proceed quite normally in limbs affected with paralysis of both motion and sensation, and this not unfrequently in childhood; while in other cases growth has been materially impaired, the formation of the bone being especially deficient at the articular ends. Delay of the growth in length is observed in various diseases of the epiphyses and of the joints. It is self-evident that disease of the epi- physes, which essentially contribute to the elongation of the shafts, must lead to the shortening of the latter, and thereby of the whole bone. In such cases the atrophy of inactivity affects all parts of an extremity as soon as its function is materially interfered with for a length of time—for instance, a year. Whether this atrophy has also any connection with the contraction of joints which are not diseased, a condition but rarely attended with delay of the growth in length, Lan- genbeck does not determine ; he believes, however, that muscular con- traction may afford a purely mechanical obstacle, in cases where joints are immovably fixed, to growth in length, either by the deposit of new layers of bone or by interstitial growth. Thus, in cases of syndacty- * Mr. McCarthy has been trying skin-grafting lately in three cases at the London Hospital. In all the cases the grafts became adherent and were followed by rapid ingrowing of circumferential dermal tissue and speedy cicatrisation. Grafts taken from Iher subject were not so successful as those taken from the patient experimented on; at leaU, in two instances, the grafts taken from another subject at first completely dis- apprared, then at the same spot appeared a thin film of cicatrix, which soon ulcerated, leaving a sore which healed in the ordinary manner.—(Ed.)