SYPHILIS. 88] Syphilis.—In the sixth volume of the ' St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports,' p. 7, Mr. Savory writes on " The Unity or Duality of Syphilitic Poison." The "Committee on Venereal Disease" declared for the unity or singleness of the poison of syphilis, but then they refuse the terni syphilitic to any poison which exhausts itself in local action. The term is limited to constitutional infection. " Why must the poison itself be different because sometimes it does and sometimes it does not infect the whole system ? Is it clear that there is nothing whatever extraneous to the poison itself which determines or influences the in- tensity and extent of its action ? Is such variety of effect of one and the same poison opposed to all analogy ?" He thinks it is begging the whole question to assert that the term syphilis cannot be applied to mere local affections. He admits, with Hutchinson (' System of Medicine,' i, p. 28S, note), that but one poison can produce the consti- tutional phenomena, but he asks whether the same poison always produces constitutional symptoms. " Does it not sometimes expend |tself in an action which is simply local ? " " If, as most surgeons believe, certain of these sores owe their origin to a specific poison, then iu what relation does this stand to that of constitutional syphilis ? The two chief forms of sore are not always well defined and distinct. It not only often happens that they cannot be distinguished even by the best observers, but there is also much evidence to show that each may reproduce or pass into the other. Such facts cannot be reconciled with the doctrine that the two forms of sore owe their origin to distinct poisons. But it does not follow that all the differences observed in the characters of the sores and their consequences must be due to extraneous circumstances, to the conditions under which the poison operates. There is another explanation, which I venture to think is most in harmony with all the facts in evidence. The same poison may at different periods and under different conditions vary in energy, even to produce striking differences in its obvious mode of action. Such difference is seen in the case of other poisons, both animal and vegetable. The venom of serpents, as of the common viper, varies widely in virulence according to the vigour of the animal; and every botanist knows how important it is for therapeutical purposes to gather par- ticular parts of plants at certain seasons of the year. So the venereal poison, according to the kind of soil in which it is produced, or the influences to which it is exposed, may be, and probably is, much more active at some times than at others." He endorses Mr. Hutchinson's belief (evidence before Committee) that the soft sore results from a poison which has been modified ; that there are two varieties of pus, differing from each other, but that they were originally from the same sore and only temporarily distinct. This view is supported by the analogy of other morbid poisons; for example, that introduced by dis- section wounds, which, at one time, produces only local affections, at others, blood infection. Glanders and farcy probably result from one and the same poison, yet they will appear as distinct diseases in what may be called their typical forms, presenting no features of even remote resemblance. The more thoroughly the nature of syphilis is investi- gated the closer does the analogy appear to be between it and other L