ltEPOUT ON MIDWIMillY, ETC. 483 more than probable that a more or less complete solution of the embryo has taken place in the surrounding fluid. On the other hand, the dead embryo of the third, fourth, and fifth months is found in a state of maceration, shrivelling, as if it had long been immersed in a saline solu- tion. In the last months the embryo is swollen, and all the organs softened. There can only be solution and disappearance of a separated part when the separation took place within the first three months. Wagner describes a human embryo of the third week, showing small buddings of extremities. As the very earliest time, therefore, in which the separation of a larger part of an extremity can happen is about six weeks, but the separation of fingers is only possible after three months, it is, therefore, easily understood how, from the softness of the parts during the first weeks, that constriction and solution of the constricted part may proceed rapidly. At any rate, when separation has occurred so early, at the time of labour, the healing of the stump will be com- plete. But when the separation of a limb has taken place in the later months, the solution of the limb is not to be thought of; it will be found that the healing of the stump is generally incomplete (Miider and Martin's case). Besides the solution of the part, its smallness, its arrested development at an early period of its separation has been given as a reason why it is not found at birth. The separated part has, no doubt, often been overlooked. A most important feature is the presence of a scar on the stump. This is a strong evidence of amputation. In cases where trace of cica- trix cannot be found it is possible that an original cicatrix may, with time, have lost its character; and in other cases the skin being drawn in by the constricting agent by a very gradual process, there may be but a very slight scar. Virchow stated, in demonstrating two cases, one of defect of fingers and toes, the other of a rudimentary finger, that he did not look upon spontaneous amputations as true amputations by special structures, but in most cases as the result of an inflammatory process, which through a cicatricial contraction at particular parts arrested their development. Kristeller says that inflammation of the skin of the foetus may lead to formation of cicatrix and contraction, and the presence of abnormal membranes or strings. In the case which gave rise to this inflammation, that of a strong developed child, the right hand wanted the third phalanx of the ring-finger, and the second and third phalanges of the middle finger. The thumb showed one, and the middle finger three, sharp grooves between which the finger was swollen. The amputation stump of the third and fourth fingers had grown to that of the index by a thick cicatricial cellular web. The left forearm was amputated two inches from the olecranon, the ends of the bones being rounded oft*. On the stump was a ball-shaped process attached by a thin neck, re- cognised as a rudimentary forearm with a hand, but no bones were felt in it. Its neck is surrounded by a firm cicatricial skin. Both feet Bhowed similar defects. Missing parts were not found. Inflammation must have lasted until the end of gestation, for Kristeller found at birth redness. Inflammation of the skin does not necessarily produce bands or strings. Thus Oldham describes a foetus which was covered by