REPORT ON MIDWU'ERY, ETC. 416 labour was induced at about seven months. In two the child presented by the head, and was born dead; in two it presented by the breech or feet, and was born alive. Hoeniug says the adaptation of the first- coming head to the pelvis is small, aud that the fear of compressing the cord when the head comes last is also small. Dr. Braxton Hicks relates four cases of labour in which, on account of disproportion, turning was employed to deliver after the forceps had failed. Three of the children were born alive. He refers to other cases in which version was employed as a primary operation, with a view of saving the child; but dwells upon these four as proving, by a crucial test, the value of turning as a means of saving foetal life where the for- ceps fails. No injury was caused to the mother. (' Guy's Iteports,' 1870.) Dr. Spiegelberg discusses the value of artificial premature labour. He inquires not only whether a child is born alive, but how long it survived; aud thiuks that, tried by this test, the operation is much overrated. He compares a number of cases in which labour was pro- voked on account of contracted pelvis, with others in which labour took place at term, and affirms that the operation is far from being so con- servative to the child or to the mother as is generally believed. He submits that it should never be undertaken when the pelvis is not less than three inches in conjugate diameter. If the first indication for the operation, namely, the saving of the child where there is pelvic contrac- tion, call for great restriction, so also is the second, namely, that of saving the child where there is habitual death of the embryo during gestation. Since this, he says, happens from hereditary syphilis, it matters little whether it dies unborn or shortly after birth; in any case it dies. There remains only the third common indication, namely, the saving of the mother, uncontested. Diseases depending upon, or aggravated by, pregnancy, give the most rational indication. (As might be expected, these propositions were not unanimously accepted by the meeting before which they were propounded. It is enough to state that many of the cases were observed in hospitals, where the patients are subjected to frequent examinations by students, and to various other injurious inilueuces which endanger the success of the operation to mother aud child.—B>. B.) Dr. Hegar observed that he had seen inflammatory affections of the uterus, and even fatal issue, result from injections into the uterus. ('Monatssch. f. Geburtsk.,' 1869.) Induction of labour.—Dr. Brunton relates (' Glasgow Med. Journ.,' 1869) six cases, and states arguments in favour of Lazarewitch's plan of injecting water at the fundus uteri. In some cases labour set in immediately, in some as late as twenty-five hours after the injection. Dr. Casati publishes the fifth of his series of 'Annual Reports of the Milan Lying-in Hospital,' of which Prof. Lazzati is chief. It contains the usual statistical summaries, aud a special description of the results of the treatment of eclampsia by subcutaneous iujections of atropine, morphia, and quinine. Five cases are reported ; in three injections were used; symptoms of atropine action were developed, but the fits were not arrested. Casati thinks the method may prove useful as an