MORBUS ADDISONII. organs. In these adhesions were found two stout nerve-trunks which had partly undergone fatty degeneration. In the case of an officer, published by De la Porte (' Presse M6d. Beige,' 1869, p, 231), who in his twenty-eighth year had suffered from weakness and anaemia, followed a year after by bronze colouration and general symptoms of morbus Addisonii, and who died seven months later of exhaustion, the right supra-renal body was found greatly enlarged and firmly adherent to the liver, encysted, and with purulent contents; the left was the size of a hen's egg, hard as cartilage, on section cheesy, with fibrous dissepiments ; several small cheesy deposits in lungs. ' In the case examined by Tigri, of Sienna (' G-az. Med. Ital. Venez.,' 1870, p. 242, quoted in 'Lyon Med.,' 1870, p. 141), the longitudinal and ganglionic cords of the great sympathetic were altered from cranium to coccyx, the ganglions and their branches considerably increased in size and abnormally red. This alteration was especially noticeable in the great splanchnic and solar plexus. The splanchnic nerve was larger than the pneumogastric. The left superior cervical ganglion was much larger than the right; it was prolonged downwards, and its neuri- lemma was hypertrophied. The inferior cervical and the first thoracic ganglia were almost double their normal size, and of a reddish-brown colour. Tigri regards as a consequence of this pathological state of the central nervous system the post-mortem appearances found, viz. the lesion of the supra-renal bodies and lymphatic glands, which presented interstitial haemorrhages like ecchymoses, attested by the remains of the cruor sanguinis and red globules, and the presence of a yellow fatty matter, substituted, as it seemed, for normal tissue. He explains these interstitial haemorrhages by a paralysis or paresis of the vaso- motor nerves. The bronze-colouration proves an excessive activity of the " chromatogenous apparatus" of the skin, caused by the abnormal state of the great sympathetic. This functional increase of activity may go on to interstitial haemorrhage, the latter manifesting itself by the presence of yellow blood-residues, either amorphous or under the form of fatty vesicles. Peyer's patches and the solitary glands of the small intestine were hypertrophied; superficial ulceration existed in the mucous membrane—all due, according to Tigri, to the morbid state of the great abdominal sympathetic. The treacly (poisseux) state of the blood, its thickening, as well as the primary haemorrhages of the nervous ganglia, are in favour of the treatment of Addison's disease by bleeding (!) J Marbais ('Presse Med. Beige,' 1869, p. 245) gives the case of a girl, at. 21, who had been getting weaker for two months before her admission presented a brown colouration of face, neck, back, hands, &c, and died of exhaustion seven months later. Post-mortem were found "tubercu- lous lungs (apices) and bronchial and mesenteric glands, brown coloura- tion of labia and blotchy black pigmentation of vagina, right supra-renal body normal, the left the size of a pea, its cortical substance fibrous, and medullary substance destroyed (la cavite n'existe plus). Kossbach ('Virch. Archiv,' 1, 566, and li, 100) publishes a case which he calls morbus Addisonii, with scleroderma. The patient, a well- developed and robust woman, began to suffer at the end of the year