REPORT ON SURGERY. 20G aorta by means of Mr. Porter's compressor, and gives references to other cases of ligature of aorta. ('Dub. Quart. Jouru.,' Aug. 1869.) Forced flexion of limbs in traumatic hcemorrhacje.—Adelmann, of Dorpat (quoted by ' L'Inparziale,' of Florence), strongly advocates flexion of the limbs in traumatic haemorrhage. He quotes authorities showing that though this was formerly practised it has now fallen into disuse. He gives a case of his own in which the plan was useful. He thinks that flexion ought to be tried before other haemostatic means are employed; that this practice should be made known among the people at large, so that it might be used before the arrival of the surgeon ; and that soldiers in the field should be made acquainted with it. ('Lancet,' Jan. 22, 1870.) Arteries.—Mr. Maunder, in narrating a case of ligature of the femoral artery (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' ii, p. 5) for punctured wound, dis- cusses the question of the colour of the blood coming from the lower end of the artery. He says, when the hole in the artery was exposed and pressure only remained below it, arterial blood flowed; but when the pressure was only applied above it, venous blood flowed. He wished to call special attention to the^ac^ that the femoral artery having been opened in its continuity, and the normal circulation through it being checked, dark blood shall flow from its distal portion during, at least, the first hour after the lesion. Such was the case in the above in- stance, and a similar fact as regards colour has been noted by Guthrie. In the instance of wTound of the superficial femoral artery, in which either a ligature has been applied to the proximal side, or pressure to arrest haemorrhage has stopped the flow of blood along the main channel, the vis a tergo is withdrawn in great measure, and the collateral circulation, though sufficient to support the life of the limb, is unequal to do its part to propel the venous blood, and consequently, as no vacuum may exist in the arterial system, venous blood re- gurgitates. Thus is explained the phenomenon of dark blood pour- ing from the distal portion of a wounded or opened artery. On the other hand, in the case of aneurism, the arterial supply to the limb through the chief vessel has been more or less imperfect, and the longer the disease has existed the greater the imperfection. But, to compensate for this irregularity, the collateral circulation becomes esta- blished, and the limb is more or less independent of the main vessel for its supply of arterial blood; and so, when this is ligatured, the vis a tergo acts through the smaller but now enlarged arteries, and does its part through these in helping the venous blood towards the heart, and no regurgitation can take place. Mr. Maunder then alluded to a case in which the femoral artery was tied to arrest inflammation of the knee-joint, in a man thirty-three years of age, following a lacerated wound. The case is fully narrated, p. 37 of the same volume. (This case, and also Mr. Moore's, p. 61, is noted in 'Bien. Retrosp.,' 1867-8, p. 284, &c.) Arterial transfusion.—A long abstract of a paper by Prof. Hueter,