11 El'OUT O.N PRACTICAL -MEDICINE. found much dilated, containing about a pint of coagulated blood ; in the middle of the posterior wall of the left ventricle was a transverse rupture, an inch long, with ragged edges, and the inner opeuing smaller than the outer; the muscle in its neighbourhood was fatty, and elsewhere almost normal; the valves were healthy, and there were atheromatous plates in the aorta. The patient lived six days after the rupture. Clapton ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 59, 'Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxi, 95) showed at the Pathological Society a rupture of the right ventricle, stretching parallel to the tricuspid valve, through the endocardium and most of the muscular tissue. The microscope revealed fatty degene- ration of the left ventricle. The woman, ait. 61, had been in good health up to twelve months before death, was attacked by precordial distress and palpitation, with scarcely any trace of a bruit, and died apoplectic and comatose. Wiltshire ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 652, 'Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxi, 97) also showed a heart from an old woman found dead in bed, which was ruptured in two places, one through the entire wall, the other through the external fibres. Hooper ('Trans. Path. Soc.,' xix, 186) records the case of a woman who died suddenly, and in whom there was found a very small perfo- ration in the left ventricle. Murchison (ibid., 100) gives the case of a man, a>t. 45, who suffered from valvular disease, and died suddenly in hospital. The autopsy showed, in addition to disease of the aortic and mitral valves, rupture of one of the former, and a rupture, about two lines in length, in the right ventricle, situated on its anterior wall, near the septum, and running obliquely outwards. Munro ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' xv, 67) publishes a case in which extensive damage—destruction of the mitral and tricuspid valves, with injury to the septum ventriculoruin, left auricle, &c.—caused in a dog by a bullet, was not followed by immediate death; the animal running forty-two paces from the spot on which it was standing when shot. Wright ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1869, i, 533) contributes a case of wound of the heart by a needle, in a boy, followed by death. Angina Pectoris. Lockhart Clarke (' St. G-eo. Hosp. Eep.,' 1869, ii) gives a case of angina pectoris in a man set. 47, with dilatation, hypertrophy and fatty degeneration of both sides of the heart, but without valvular disease or calcification of the coronary arteries. He gives a summary of the views entertained as to its pathology, and quotes Bezold (' Untersuch- ungen aus den Phys. Lab.' in Wiirzburg, 1867), and Eulenburg and G-uttmann (" Die Pathologie des Sympathicus," 'Arch. f. Psychiatrie,' 1868-9), in favour of its dependence upon neurosis of the cardiac plexus. In Clarke's case decomposition was too far advanced to allow of exa- mination of the ganglia. Tacey ('Glasg. Med. Journ.,' N.S., i, 556) records the case of a man eet. 4 5, under Leishman, in whom severe attacks of dyspnoea and pain were much relieved by the inhalation of five minims of nitrite of amyl.