LITHOTRITY. 255 tiou. The wound was closed by wire suture and healed by first inten- tion. The urine was drawn off by a catheter for six days. In another case a stone weighing 646 grains was removed by a vesico-vaginal operation with similar success. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' April, 1870.) Lithotrilt/—Sir Henry Thompson read a paper before the Med. Chir. Soc, containing an analysis of 184 cases of stone in the bladder of the adult, treated by lithotrity. All the cases were consecutive, and treated within a recent period by a uniform method. The mean age of the 184 cases was no less than sixty-one years. The youngest was twenty-two years old; only three were below thirty; the oldest was eighty-four. There were 46 of seventy years old and upwards. With very few excep- tions, all stones of an ounce and upward were reserved for lithotomy; all obviously below that were crushed. Not one case was refused ope- ration, not one left unfinished, and in no instance was an operation of lithotrity completed by lithotomy. The recoveries were 93 per cent, on the whole number ; but 5 cases of death, not by any means due to the operation, being excluded, the mortality is reduced to 4 per cent. A second operation, for recurrence of the stone, was performed in 13 cases. The important logical conclusion to be derived from the mass of facts considered was, that lithotrity is an eminently successful opera- tion. For a certain number of cases its success may be regarded as a certainty—absolutely without fear of any contingency, except such as attends the minor operations of surgery—for example, the opening of a small abscess, or the passing of a catheter. The author stated that he had never lost a patient in the whole course of his experience after crushing a stone which was no larger than a small nut; and this he considered was a size at which, with few exceptions, every stone ought to be discovered. "When lithotrity is employed for a stone as large as a date, or a small chestnut—and it is impossible to deny the excellent chance of success which this method offers to the subjects of such stones—a certain, but still only small, proportion of deaths must be expected. The rate of mortality will correspond with augmentation in the size of the stone and with the amount of existing disease, and age on the part of the patient. Given a small stone in a fairly healthy person and success is certain, the possibility of contingency in such a case depending only on the presence of those remote and excessively rare conditions which will make for an individual here and there the mere passing of a catheter a cause of death. The rule observed had been, for the most part, to apply lithotrity to all calculi obviously less than an ounce in weight, easily discoverable by sounding, and to ope- rate on all larger ones by lithotomy. (' Lancet,' June 4, 1870.) Perineal lithotrity.—Prof. Dolbeau's operation.—In the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dee. 25, 1869, it is stated by the Paris correspondent that M. Dolbeau had had twenty-one successful cases and only one fatal one. An incision is made in the perineum, and the membranous portion of the urethra opened, and then the stone crushed with a lithotrite. The recoveries have been rapid, and without fistulas remaining. The patient who died was an old man, and in all probability his death was but indi-