508 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. on the influence of epidemics of fever in checking the advance of those of cholera. The object of his pamphlet is, he says, to contribute to the attainment of a rational explanation of much that now seems unaccountable, by directing attention to a characteristic feature in the relations of fever to cholera. While investigating the course of pan- demic waves, the author became aware of the influence epidemics of fever exercise in checking the advances of those of cholera, and vice versa. Fever has frequently prevailed over an extensive area, and, though also embracing a large area, approached the other, yet, while the fever continued, epidemic cholera, as an epidemic, has never pene- trated the fever field. Sporadic cases of cholera have frequently been met with a long way within the boundary of the fever field, and similar cases of fever within that of cholera, but still the fact remains that, though the fever and cholera fields approached each other, neither dis- ease took the place of the other until its force as an epidemic was broken. This fact sanctions the inference that the conditions which generate fever epidemics are not only different from those which pro- duce epidemics of cholera, but are also incompatible with them; and, further, that sometimes the one set of conditions, sometimes the other, exists over a large area of the earth's surface, and that the one will give way to the other without any marked change in the habits or cir- cumstances of the population these areas embrace. The importance, therefore, of rightly estimating the influence exercised by one of these diseases over the diffusion of the other is obvious. Many illustrative examples are adduced to prove the correctness of this view. Fungi and Disease. The Rev. J. M. Berkeley* makes the following remarks on this sub- ject. One of the most interesting parts of the reports on the diseases of cattle in the United States, and more especially on the lung plague and periodic fever, is that which contains the account of the investiga- tions which were made with a view to ascertain, if possible, whether there is any reason to believe that parasitic growths in the blood or elsewhere have anything to do with the malady. Mr. H. W. Ravenel undertook to examine those of Texas, whilst Dr. Billings and Brevet- Major Curtis applied themselves more immediately to the examination of the fluids of diseased cattle with reference to the presence of crypto- gamic growths. After all that has been said as to the fungous origin of cholera, and the confident assertion by Dr. Hallier that each form of fever has its own specific cryptogam, this became a necessary and, in its general bearing, a very important object of inquiry. The examina- tions, which were carefully conducted, do not give the very slightest reason for supposing that there is any truth in the supposition. It may be perfectly true that minute bodies known under the name of micro- cocci and bacteria may be present even in the fluids of apparently healthy individuals; but our authors say expressly, " In a general way it may be stated that all abnormal appearances observed in the fluids examined were such as might be attributed to putrefaction." The fungi which were generated in the fluids were the common forms which * ' Gardener's Chronicle,' 1870, p. 416.