SURGERY. 345 it is so pushed back that all three extremities are in contact with the organ, and a needle on the dial then registers the curvature of the are that would pass through thein all. A dynamometric spring is then Drought into relation with the central stem; and another needle registers the number of grammes of pressure which are exerted to produce the indicated degree of depression. (b) Surgery. Dr. A. Sichel, fils, has published* a posthumous memoir on Caries of the Orbit, on which his late father was engaged for many years, and which is the fruit of great clinical experience. Mr. Spencer "Watsonf has reprinted some papers on orbital tumours, originally contributed to the ' Medical Mirror;' and from his own experience and other sources has brought together the records of many remarkable cases. XnappJ gives an account of an orbital cancroid tumour involving the inner portions of both eyelids. He removed the tumour with the affected skin, and immediately repaired the loss by a. plastic operation. The manner in which this was done is illustrated by drawings; and the ultimate result was extremely successful. Dr. Dorreau§ relates a case in which a blow from a stick left two fragments impacted in the nasal duct. They occasioned suppuration and a fistulous^ opening upon the cheek; but their presence was not discovered for six months after the infliction of the injury. They were then extracted, and the case did well. P6rster|| and G-raefe^f describe fungoid accumulations (leptothrix) in the lachrymal passages. Dr. "Williams, of Cincinnati, claims to have attained to a speedy and almost certain cure of lachrymal obstructions.** He introduces a style of pure silver, to be worn for some weeks or months, and employs also frequent astringent injections. Professor Nagel recommended to the Heidelberg Conferenceft the use of collyria, containing hydrochlorate of quinine, in certain chronic forms of inflammation of the conjunctiva and cornea, and especially when there was any tendency to sloughing of the latter. IwanoffJJ related the results of the microscopic examination of three eyes suffering from phlyctenular ophthalmia. He states that the dis- ease consists essentially of the deposition of a collection of lymph-cella between the epithelium and Bowman's membrane, and that these cells not only produce destruction of the epithelium and a superficial ulcer, but that they also burrow by the side of nervous filaments into the' true tissue of the cornea. It is to the irritation and compression of the nerves that he attributes the photophobia so often associated with the malady. * ' Annates d'Oculistique,' 1870, vol. ii. t ' On Abscess and Tumours of the Orbit,' London, 1870. % 'Archives of Ophthalmology and Otology,' p. 132. § 'Arch, de Med. Navale,' 1869, xii, p. 151. || 'Arch f. 0.,' 1869, P- 318. f Ibid., p. 284. ** Archives of Ophthalmology and Otology.' tt ' Klinische Monatsbliittcr,' i860. 11 Ibid.