CHOLERA AND FEVEH. 507 before the commencement of the outbreak an alteration was made in the drains, during which they were obstructed, so that there would be a reflux of the overflow water from these drains and rat-burrows back into the tank. It is a significant proof that this did happen, that at least two families shortly afterwards complained that the milk had a bad taste, and that the milk, when kept, became, not merely sour, but stinking. It is certain that the milk-cans were washed out with the water from this tank, and a shrewd suspicion may exist that some of it was mixed with the milk. The milkman, his family, and servants and customers, were very shortly afterwards affected with a fatal form of enteric fever, and the connection between the milk as cause and the fever as effect was shown by the fact that the fever was confined virtu- ally to those who drank this milk. Dr. Ballard ascertained that 142 families, including the milkman's own, formed the " milk-walk" of this dairy. Of these 142, it is known that 70 families were invaded by enteric fever in the ten weeks during which the outbreak lasted. In these 70 families were 175 patients, of whom 30 died. It was remark- able to see how the fever picked out the families supplied from this one dairy, and avoided all the rest. Wherever the fever appeared it did not attack one, but several members of the household. In certain families, where particular members took no milk, they escaped, whilst others suffered. The women and children, who take most milk, suffered in the greatest proportion. A young lady, who had a tumbler of this milk daily, whilst the rest of the household were supplied from a different source, was the only victim in the house. The dairyman himself and his workmen were among the earliest victims. The business was given up and then the outbreak ceased. The disease was mainly confined to a circle within a quarter of a mile radius from the dairy, whilst the rest of the extensive parish of Islington was virtually free. Dr. Bell, of St. Andrew's, has recently shown that scarlet fever has been conveyed by milk to the customers of a cowkeeper, the cows having been milked by persons convalescent from the disease. Dr. Ballard claims to have shown that enteric fever may be similarly conveyed by milk. Enteric Fever. Dr. Alfred Carpenter,* of Croydon, publishes an extremely interest- ing paper, the first of a series, on the " Causation of Epidemic Dis- ease," in which he deals with enteric fever. He shows, by several remarkable examples, how this disease has been caused by the vicious habit of constructing houses and public buildings on such principles as involve the conversion of the respective buildings (and especially the basements) into bell-jars, which enclose sewer gases, and likewise how unsuspected sources of impure water supply may give rise to epidemics of typhus fever. Cholera and Fever. Dr. Robert Lawson.t Inspector-General of Hospitals, has written * * St. Thos. Hosp. Rep.,' i, p. 427. f ' Observations on the Influence of Epidemics of Fever in Checking the Advance of those of Cholera.' Pamphlet. 1870.