IXOCULABILITY OP TUBERCLK. 39 (2) that the lymphatic lining (endothelium) takes no share in the forma- tion of the new cells lying in the surrounding zone of tubercle. Chauveau (' Lyon Medical,' iv, 1870, p. 321) gives further researches. In the first series of experiments three heifers were fed upon portions of tubercular lung from a cow; the first sickened in five weeks, with cough, characteristic cachexia, and glandular tuberculization; the latter observed to increase during life, and proved at the autopsy by the fact that the tubercular mesenteric glands weighed 1600 gr. The larynx, trachea, and lungs presented the characteristic lesions. The second heifer was ill a month, and the third twenty days, after the inoculation. The second had such marked ganglionic enlargement as to cause wheezing from the pressure on the trachea. Both presented otherwise the same lesions as the first. A fourth heifer, not inoculated, was well at the time of this communication. Three other series of experiments were made of from two to four beasts each ; one series infected with human tubercle. The results were the same, differing only in the rapidity of the infection and the intensity of the pathological lesions, the expe- rimenter varying as much as possible the age and nature of the sub- ject, attempting even to produce tuberculosis in calves still sucking, whose ancestry was known, and whose father and mother are still living, without any signs of the affection produced in their offspring. He con- cludes that in the Bovid©, on which alone he has experimented, he has evidence of contagion. Saint- Cyr presented to the Societe des Sciences Medicales, April, 1870, the results of the following experiments:—On April 2 he fed a dog, born on Feb. 11, on a small quantity of tuberculous matter from a cow. Nothing having resulted, he gave it two grammes of the tubercular lung of an infant. On the 25th,—two dogs of the same litter being in perfect health,—the one experimented upon became very unwell; after death the intestine presented a number of patches, in the centre of which were small, indistinct white points; the liver, very remarkable points of the same kind; the spleen, four small granulations towards its inferior and posterior border; while the lungs were seriously damaged, showing hepatization of the two upper lobes and a portion of the middle and lower lobes, with, in the non-hepatized portions, ecchymoses, in the centre of which were seen greyish, transparent granulations. This was the second experiment of the kind made; in a first, made in February, the dog had been more saturated with the tuberculous matter, having taken six grammes at four times, on Feb. 20 and 26; he died three or four days after, and the lesions found were almost nil, consisting of old patches in the intestines, as in the last case, and two or three granula- tions in the lungs. The same quantity of tuberculous matter had been given to rabbits without any result. St. Cyr will not draw any conclu- sions without repeating the experiments. Chatin (' Des effets produit sur des lapins par l'ingestion de sub- stances tuberculeuses et canee>euses prises sur l'homme," ' Lyon Med.,' iii. 1869, pp. 430, 457) (1) fed rabbits repeatedly on phthisical sputa, but found, like Dubuisson in guinea-pigs, no trace of tubercle after death. He quotes a note from Devillier and Lengler, who observed that fowls which fed, on their own accord, on the sputa of phthisical