INFLAMMATION AND SUPPURATION. 35 never seen, properly speaking, the proliferating division or splitting of the nuclei. According to hiui, the generation of the new elements takes place at the expense of the protoplasm or contents of the corpuscles, the nutrition of which has been altered by the disordered circulation • and to the thus disordered nutrition he gives the name " travail in- ilammatoire." He is not disinclined to admit that the contents of the hypertrophied corpuscles, having become free from some cause or other, may still take determinate forms. Picot (lGaz. Med. de Paris,' 1870, p. 401; < Journ. de Med.,' &c, 1870, July, p. 38) made his experiments on the peritoneum of frogs, mice, and kittens, inflamed by contact with air alone, and denies the possibility of either Virchow's or Cohnheim's theories, and he considers with Eobin that in suppuration of the peritoneum the formation of the leucocytes is a fact of genesis (genese), since they appear upon the spot smaller than they are at a later stage, and go through their phases of evolution without arising from any preexisting anatomical element. Samuel ("Die Modification des Widerstandfahigkeit," ' Centralbl.,' 1869, p. 306) scalded the ears in rabbits after tying the carotids, and his experiments show that while the ear of a healthy animal, kept in water at a heat of 500 E. for five minutes, undergoes a true inflamma- tion, with all its characteristic symptoms, no traces of cloudiness or swelling are observed in the anaemic ear treated in the same way; but in the latter the following changes are pretty constantly found : there is slight injection of arteries and veins ; the epidermis is easily rubbed off; the blood pressed out of the vessels returns very slowly. Twenty- four hours later the ear is ragged and darkly discoloured ; the blood in its vessels is coagulated ; the whole part is shrivelled, and after a time drops off. In tying only one carotid, the difference between the ansemic and the healthy ear in the same animal was not so marked as that between the ears in one animal thus operated upon, and another normal m every respect. Other experiments at lower and higher degrees of heat are given, and from the whole series, he asserts that the results agree with the changes in the blood circulation in inflamma- tion, which, according to him, consist in a retardation of the blood- stream in the veins, going on to stasis, with slower but uninterrupted flow in the artery. Tschaussow (" Entziindung bei der TJnterbindung der Arterien," < Cen- tralbl 1869, p. 801), working in Eecklinghausen's laboratory, confirms generally Samuel's researches (' Virchow's Archiv,' xl, p. 213), but differs from him m considering the first change after rubbing the ear with croton oil, with orwithout ligature of the carotid, to be a contraction of the artery, less marked in the inflammation without ligature, and after the employ- ment of feeble irritants ; this contraction is succeeded by dilatation and secondary congestion, with which the exudation first occurs. He considers himself justified in concluding that the first change in inflammation takes place in the arteries, and that the appearances in the veins suc- ceecl them. The white " vesicles " described by Samuel consist, under the microscope, of fibrin with white, and a few red, blood-cells. in the Quarterly Journ. of Microscopic Science,' July, 1870, p. 242, may be found a summary of work done by Strieker and other investiga-