REPORT ON SURGERY. 230 a communication on this subject in the ' Australian Med. Gazette,' Dec. 15, 1869, is given in the 'Med.-Chir. Eev.,' Jan., 1871. Residual abscesses.—Under the name "residual abscesses" Mr. Paget includes all abscesses formed in or about the residues of former inflam- mations. Most of them are formed where pus, produced long pre- viously, has been wholly or in part retained and become dry, or in some form " obsolete." But some of them, it is probable, are formed in the thickenings, adhesions, or other lowly organised products of inflam- mation long past. Suppuration among the products of a former inflammation is probably an illustration of what may be held as ge- nerally true concerning many relapsing inflammations, namely, that they are due to the disturbed or interrupted nutrition, not only of the tissues deteriorated in previous inflammations, but of the new materials that were formed among them. Thus, in the fre- quently relapsing inflammations of testicles and joints, and other parts that one sees m a constantly ' fretful' state, the ' weakness,' ' low vitality,', or ' want of tenacity of composition,' which are indicated by frequent inflammation under very slight provocation, are to be ascribed rather to the remaining products of former inflammations than to the original textures of the parts. Thus, adhesions become inflamed, and residues of pus degenerating under any irritation initiate or take part in a renewed suppuration. Some of the most striking instances are met with in connection with diseases of the spine. In one lady an abscess appeared in the lumbar region, of a large size, six years after the formation of an angular curvature, the abscess probably forming in or about the residue of inflammatory products which had been at rest for six years. Another lady had an angular curvature and psoas abscess, the latter containing probably two pints of pus. She rested for two years, and at the end of that time the abscess, having gradually diminished, had disappeared. She then led an active life for four years, when another abscess formed. This time rest did not prevent the abscess increasing in size, and at last bursting. Another group of cases is found among instances of necroses of the interior of long bones. A woman was admitted with abscess of the head of the tibia. Twenty-eight years before she had had inflammation of the leg in con- sequence of a fall, and this was followed by exfoliation of several small portions of the upper part of the tibia. The sinuses remained open for five years. She then remained well for twenty years. Three years before she came under care, in consequence, probably, of over- fatigue, one leg began to be painful and slightly swollen about the upper part of the tibia, and from this time onward she suffered from fierce attacks of pain. Perforation of the head of the tibia let out some pus. In a girl of thirteen an abscess similar to the above followed an injury five years before. In a young man an abscess of the tibia followed seven years after acute periostitis. " Many other cases might be cited of residual abscesses with histories and characters closely resembling those just related. Thus, in lymphatic glands, left large and indurated after scrofulous inflammation in early life, it is not rare to see many years later fresh inflammation, followed by abscess and