284 REPORT ON SURGERY. Spence found that compression could not be continued, he had also determined that he could not trust to ligature of the femoral above oniy, on account of the communication with the large femoral vein through the interior of the sac. He determined, therefore, to apply a Jigature above and below without interfering with the vein. 0 Fdinb Med. Journ.,' July, 1869, p. 1.) V Two cases in which suppuration of the sac followed ligature for aneurism are narrated by Mr. Nankivell. In the one case ligature of the lemoral, in the other ligature of the external iliac. In another case of ligature of the external iliac the patient recovered without anv such accident. (' Med. Times and Gazette,' Nov. 13, 1869.) Distal ligature in the cure of innominate aneurism.—Dr H B Sands records ('Med. Eec.,' Feb. 1, 1869) the case of a woman, jet. 43, admitted into the Bellevue Hospital with an aneurism of the innominate A soft, pulsating tumour existed at the root of the neck and behind the right sterno-clavicular joint, the bones composing which had evidently undergone partial absorption. The common carotid artery was tied above the omo-hyoid, and the subclavian in the third part of its course on the same occasion. No sensible change was observed either in the size or the pulsation of the tumour. On the nineteenth day the ligature on the subclavian came away, and that on the carotid on the twenty- third day. On the forty-second day hemorrhage occurred from the carotid. The woman had become intoxicated and thrown herself about The bleeding recurred on the forty-eighth day. Digital compression was kept up steadily for a fortnight. The tumour diminished in size after the operation, and visible pulsation ceased. Its contents also be- came somewhat firmer, although not very much so. Attempts were made, by the administration of internal remedies, to hasten con- solidation. The disease has evidently remained, although the signs of improvement were unmistakable. The author sums up agaiust the operation, except "the tumour were very small and the inter- mediate symptoms urgent." ('Amer. Journ. of Med. Scien.,' April 1869.) ' Mr. Christopher Heath writes on the treatment of intra-thoracic aneurism by the distal ligature, in connection with a case under his care. The patient died four years afterwards, and the specimen is now in the College Museum. <" Lancet,' July 2, and August 27, 1870.) The specimen from Mr. Heath's case is figured and described in the ' Path. Trans.,' xxi, p. 132. Wounds and aneurisms of the gluteal and sciatic arteries.—In ' Langen- beck's Archiv fur Klinische Chirurgie, xi, G-eorge Fischer collects and comments on all the published cases—35 in number—of wounds and aneurisms of the gluteal and sciatic arteries; and sums up with the following conclusions:—1. Wounds of the gluteal artery very seldom occur as the result of stabs, accidents during operation, or shots. Those produced by stabs are more liable to be followed by aneurism than to run a simple course. The diagnosis depends on the position of the wound and on the hemorrhage, which is often dangerous. Ligature