4 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. rence of mimicry on the acceptance of Mr. Darwin's theory of natural selection, by A. W. Bennett, will be found in 'Nature,' ii, 1870. BLOOD. CIBCTJLATION. R. Gscheidlen* has endeavoured to improve and render more accurate "Welcker's method of determining the quantity of blood in the body, first by saturating it with carbonic oxide, and thus rendering the colour of the arterial and venous blood identical; secondly, by injecting the blood- vessels with a one half per cent, solution of common salt instead of with water, to avoid solution of the corpuscles and diffusion of the hemoglobin into the tissue ; and thirdly, by estimating the colouring power of the muscular tissue separately. The mean of eight experi- ments on rabbits gave the proportion of blood to body weight as 1 : 20-1, and of five experiments on guinea-pigs as 1 : 20-9. In the former, the relation of the colouring matter of the muscle to that of the blood varied from 1 : 25 to 1 : 23-5, and in the latter as 1 : 11-3 to 1: 26-2. Other experiments were undertaken to show the distribu- tion of the blood in the different regions and cavities of the body. This was found to vary considerably with the conditions causing death. One experiment gave 22 per cent, of the whole blood m the thorax, 53-6 in the abdomen, and 44-4 in the remaining parts of the body ; another, i<-i in the thorax, 20^ in the abdomen, and 64 elsewhere. The influence of various poisons on the distribution of the blood was also investigated. In relation to this point Benekef gives measiire- ments showing that the capacity of the arterial system varies wonder- fully in different persons, allowance being made for height, the aorta, for example, varving from 54 mm. to 32 mm. G Jiidellt gives the following percentage proportions of the organic constituents of human blood inter se as obtained by two analyses: i. n. Hemoglobin . 86-79 94\S° Albuminous compounds . • 12-24 5 10 Lecithin . • • .072 0-35 Cholesterine . °'2S 0 2a The albuminous constituents of the serum of the blood have been carefully investigated by Prof. Heynsius (see original article and Gameee's Eeport),§ who shows that globulin (paraglobulin) and albu- minate of potash are identical; and further, that the albuminous sXtance 0? the stroma of the blood corpuscles contributes to the fTlchml?conWds that the blood-corpuscles must also, like the serum SaiVcarbonic acid; the proportion, however, appears to be small The composition of the gases flowing through irritable muscle * 'Untersuch. aus d. Physiol. Labor, in Wtoburg,' iu, p. 141- + ' Sitzungsber d. Marburg. Naturwiss. Ges.,' 1868, Dec- + « TInnne Sevier's Med. Chcm. Untersuch./ Heft ill, p. , ■ I IlXhry ?nd Turner's 'Journal of Anatomy,' hi, 1869. P- «oj iv, p. i77i and v, p. 223 Virchow's Jaliresber. fiir 1869,' p. 94-