SURGERY. 359 (10) Idiopathic nystagmus may in certain cases bo considered as an affection of nervous origin, a sort of partial chorea; but more frequently as a disease of the muscles of the eye. (i i) When purely nervous, it is always congenital; when muscular, it may be either congenital or acquired. (12) Congenital muscular nystagmus may be complicated with nervous disorder; but it is always accompanied by disorders of re- fraction or by internal lesions of the eye. (13) The anomalies of refraction and the nystagmus may be traceable to a common cause, the imperfect development of the eye. (14) Acquired muscular nystagmus results naturally from an inflam- mation, traumatic or other, which has extended from the eye to the muscle. (15) There occurs in both cases a defect in the length and the ex- tensibility of one or more of the muscles of the eye. (16) Muscles that are shortened are dragged upon by their anta- gonists, and are thrown into convulsive action. (17) These convulsions are of two kinds. The first occur around the antero-posterior axis of the eyes in the oblique muscles, and produce oscillations ; the second in the vertical or horizontal diameters, and produce jerks. (18) The direction of the jerks is opposite in the two eyes; and is reversed in either, when the other is covered by ground glass. (19) There is always, excepting in nervous nystagmus, a direction of the eyes in which the jerks cease. (20) The causes which produce variation in the intensity of nystag- mus are:—a. Those which remove the axis of vision from the position of repose of the eye. I. Mental emotion, sleep, and anaesthesia. (21) Nystagmus and binocular vision are incompatible. (22) Idiopathic nystagmus does not demand a grave prognosis, and generally admits of amelioration. (23) The treatment may be palliative or curative. (24) The palliative treatment consists in the correction of anomalies of refraction by appropriate glasses, tinted with cobalt blue. (25) The curative treatment consists in tenotomy of the recti muscles to arrest the jerks, and in tenotomy of the inferior oblique to arrest the oscillations. (26) These two means may be aided by a third—ocular gymnastics. Dr. Rosborough Swanzy* describes a case of idiopathic wasting of the eyeball, the essentielle phthisis of von Grraefe, by whomf and by NagelJ the only two cases previously on record have been described. The present case occurred in von Graefe's clinique. The patient, a woman, 37 years of age, had hard cataract in both eyes. She had never before had impaired vision ; there was no sugar in her urine; the perception and projection of light were good, and the phosphenes well marked. Von Graefe extracted both cataracts on the 24th of May, 1869. Considering the early age of the patient and the absence of any manifest cause of the opacity, he diagnosed some affection of the vitreous, and anticipated that a portion would be lost * ' Annates d'Oculi»t./ lxiv.p. 212. f ' Arch. f. 0.,' xii, 2, 256. % lb., xii), 2, 40^