KEPOHT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 392 maternal placenta. He says the villi of the festal placenta penetrate the maternal placenta in stems one millimeter thick as well as in finer ramifications, that they are free from epithelium, and so intimately fused with the maternal tissue that even strong traction never separates them, but results in rending the maternal tissue. The insertion of the thick stems is macroscopic, of the finer branches microscopic. This observation is opposed to the general description, and Kolliker'e, which says that "the final terminations of the branches are always and without exception free, and in no connection with the maternal pla- centa." On fatty degeneration of the maternal placenta, Langhans agrees with Dohrn in opposition to Hegar in regarding the degree of change found at the end of gestation as inconsiderable, and not as pre- paratory to the casting of the placenta. This view was originally explained by the reporter, Dr. Barnes. ('Med.-Chir. Trans ° i8qi and 1853.) On calcification of the placenta Langhans concludes that it affects principally those parts which are most necessary to the nutrition of the foetus. (This also is an old observation.—R. B.) ('Arch. f. G-yniikol.,' 1870.) Dr. Winckler describes the villi of the human amnios ('Jenaischo Ztschr. f. Med.,' 1868.) They have been mentioned by older authors. H. Miiller, Kehrer, Dohrn found them on the human amnios. AVinckler in 200 afterbirths has never missed them. Their original site is the amniotic fold, on which they cover a tongue-shaped space, close to the in- sertion of the umbilical cord. Like Birnbaum, Kehrer, and others, Winckler found these growths mostlyin the shape of granules, sometimes resembling the papilla? circuinvallatse. Their size was that of a pin's head or bigger. Winckler associates them with the development of the navel-string. Dr. Hartmann ('Monatssch. f. Greburtsk.,' 1869) quotes Hecker as stating a case in which the vasa omplialo-mesaraica were found persisting in a mature placenta, but unique; he further quotes Schultze as stating that this condition is constant. He then relates several cases and figures the vessels found. (Twenty-five years ago, the umbilical vesicle and the omphalo-mesaraic vessels were shown to me in mature placentas by the late Dr. Bloxam, who described their presence as constant.—R. B.) Dr. Winckler describes a case of cyst-formation in the amnion. A mature placenta showed exactly at the point where the amnion merges into the funis a translucent cyst of gelatinous consistence. It had no relation to the omphalo-mesenteric duct, which ran on the opposite side. The next seat of the cyst was in the connective tissue stratum of the amnion. Above the funis end of the cyst were a row of cavities, recognised by microscope, in constitution exactly like the large cyst; all were filled with a gelatinous fluid. Endometritis placentaris gummosa is described from a specimen by Dr. Kronid Stavsjausky in the 'Viertcljahrs. f. PraktischeHeilk.,' 1S71. The foetal circulation.—Dr. Andrew Buchanan, of Glasgow, contests the doctrine that the placenta acts like the lungs in changing the blood from black in the umbilical arteries to red in the umbilical vein. He supports his views by the following observations: If after the