YELLOW FEVER. 57 Larligue ("Note sur la Fievre bilieuse Hemorrhagique," ' Arch, de Med. Nav.,' 1870, xih, p. 428) gives a case occurring in a man a?t. 45, who had been a great drinker, and had suffered repeatedly from in- termittent attacks, at a naval station on the western coast of Africa, and makes some remarks on its differential diagnosis from yellow fever. The affection began in a very insidious manner, with gastric and bronchitic irritation, and prostration. After five days a deep icteric tinge and frequent vomiting appeared, the latter becoming bloody, accompanied by haemorrhages from the buccal, intestinal, and nasal mucous mem- branes ; throughout there was no hematuria. The patient died on the eleventh day from his first complaining of malaise. Among other differences between this disease and true yellow fever, Lartigue remarks the occurrence at the very onset of the adynamic state, without anything resembling the invasion-stage of yellow fever, and the disappearance, before death, of the icterus, which had set in early. Borius (" Des injections hypodermiques de sulfate de Quinine dans le traitement des fievres paludeenes graves de Sainte Marie de Mada- gascar," ib., 1869, xii, p. 241) employed the injection of quinine in five cases of remittent bilious ictero-haemorrhagic fever, and one of pernicious fever with comatose and tetanic symptoms; one case only was fatal: the patient, a child under four years of age, seemed, on the tenth day of the disease, to be convalescent, but was attacked with gangrenous diphtheria of the nasal fossae and pharynx, and died on the thirteenth day. He looks upon this mode of treatment as preferable in those cases of fever which are accompanied by severe gastric irritation, and in which the internal administration of quinine is contra-indicated. The solution he employed contained -2 to -45 grammes of the salt; and before injecting it he places the syringe in water with a temperature about the same as that of the patient, by which means he thinks the fluid is placed in conditions more favorable to absorption. Yellow Fever. It would be impossible to give a full abstract of a report by Donnet (': Statistical Report of the Health of the Navy for the year 1867," Appendix, No. ii, and translated in ' Arch, de Med. Nav.,' 1870, xiv, p. 18) of the epidemic which prevailed in 1866-67 irL tlie Naval Hospital at Port Royal, Jamaica, where yellow fever is only known when imported, and among the white population. No case had occurred for four years up to Nov. 27, 1866. The admissions from that date up to Dec. 31, 1867, were 72, of which 25 were fatal. The infection could be traced from a ship in Morant Bay to the Naval Hospital, from St. Thomas to the merchant shipping in Kingston, from these ships to Kingston itself, and from Kingston to each man-of-war except one that became infected, to the Naval Hospital and to the cantonment of r» ewcastle. , Da Silva (< Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1869, i, 119) gives further par- ticulars as to the epidemic in the Cape Verde Islands in 1868. It was imported from Goree and St. Louis, appearing first at Bissau in July, the population of Praia in the Island of San Thiago being chiefly affected,