504 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. or among the patients beside whom cases of enteric fever are treated. These latter have, however, in a very few cases caught typhus. Enteric Fever. Prof. Pettenkofer* lays down the following propositions concerning the influence of ground-waterf on the frequency of enteric fever in Munich:—(i) The actual movement of typhoid mortality in Munich requires the hypothesis of an accessory cause, which at one time hin- ders and at another favours the development of the specific cause of enteric fever, and that must be regarded as the quantitative side of this—the ground of the in- and ex-tension, the ground of the sporadic appearance of typhoid. (2) In Munich, of all the momenta accessible for the investigation, the oscillations in the ground-water best show an unmistakable connection with the intensity and extension of typhoid. (3) So long as the ground-water steadily rises, the number of deaths from typhoid steadily diminishes; but when the former is falling, the latter increases. (4) The extent and duration of the one or the other movement furnishes a measure of the intensity and extension of typhoid. (5) The fluctuations in the number of cases of typhoid com- pared with the fluctuations in the ground-water, after elimination of the yearly periods, enable us to recognise a coincidence showing, with a probability of 36,000 to r, that there is a constant connection between the two phenomena. (6) Further, all investigations show that, in Munich, in a month in which there happens to be an excessive rain-fal), there is a decidedly greater probability of a decrease in the typhoid cases below the average than an increase, and vice versa in a dry month. (7) Whilst the rain-fall of a month exerts an indisputable influence upon the typhoid cases occurring in the subsequent months, collation of the typhoid cases of one month with the rain-fall of the suc- ceeding month no longer exhibits the slightest connection between the two. (8) If we consider that two independent investigations, the one into the ground-water, the other into the rain-fall, agree in this, that they do not enable us to perceive a beneficial action in increased rain-fall, and that the latter investigation, especially, embraces several indepen- dent calculations all leading to the same conclusion—mere coincidence being thus eliminated—we are compelled to accept the hypothesis that there is some sort of physical connection between the events under consideration, although the nature of this connection is as yet unknown. (9) Should it be imagined that the two events do not depend upon each other, but upon a third and unknown factor, we must suppose in the cases in question that the height of the ground-water, the amount of rain-fall, and the frequency of enteric fever, are governed by this hypo- thetical unknown factor, and are in accord with it; then, since this unknown thing cannot be the season of the year, for this would be eliminated in every extended series of statistics, so can no other pro- bable explanation of the facts be advanced other than that the local relations of the water contained in the soil of Munich, when present in sufficient quantity, prevents or limits the course of certain processes * ' Ztschr. f. Biologie,' v, p. 136. f Vide this Report, p. 493.