447 T11K CHILD : CRETINS AND IDIOTS. removed from the district. (5) Prom time immemorial it is known that in the cantons "Wallis, Bern, and others, children whose mothers, affected or not with a certain degree of cretinism, do not remain during the latter months of pregnancy in the valleys and gorges, but who goto the heights to bring forth, and remain there for three or four years, do not become cretins; whilst those children towards whom this conduct is not observed, do become cretins. (6) If we look to the idiots or in- sane, who spring from cretins or half-cretins, or, vice versa, to the off- spring of these last, so Behrend believes that this hereditary relation is never observed, except iu the districts affected with cretinism. (7) In any case, it appears that unions between cretins or half-cretins and healthy persons from a healthy country, when the parties take up their residence in a cretinous country, bring forth as many cretins or half-cretins as do parents who were both cretins. _ Pathological anatomy does not supply any great number of observa- tions whereupon to found a distinction between idiocy and cretinism; and it is probable that some of the autopsies of so-called cretins were really of idiots. But observations made by Lunier and others show that in cretins the bones of the cranial vault are mostly thick and bard, seldom thinned in places, and without diploe j the basilar groove is almost always wanting; the basilar apophysis is shortened from behind forwards, and forms a right angle with the narrowed foramen magnum; the occipital fossae are natter than natural; all the foramina lor the carotids and nerves are more or less narrowed, and it seems as if the basis of the skull were either compressed from below forwards by the vertebral column, or, rather, that it had suffered a compression from above downwards, and from either side of the occipital condyles, by which the upspringing parts of the inner surfaces of this basis was de- pressed, and consequently the depth of the occipital fossae had undergone a shallowing process. Although these abnormities only proceed from a want ot resistance of the osseous texture, and have their origin in hydrocephalus, in atro- phy, and in fatty degeneration of the osseous texture, also in'rachitis, we cannot regard them as characteristic of cretinism. On the other hand,' A irchow recognises as one of the forms of cretinism the too early bony union of the spheno-basilar suture; but there is every reason to suppose that this discovery of Virchow's is only an exception, and that, on the contrary, synostosis of the cranial sutures is rather retarded in cretins. The dura mater in most bodies was found thickened, resisting and strongly adhering to the bones; the dilated sinuses overfilled with dark blood; the cavities of the arachnoid and of the brain contained almost always more or less fluid. The brain was, as a rule, Bmaller than the capacity of the skull, mostly compact, but sometimes infiltrated with serum, and even softened. The anterior central lobes were often un- symmetncal and only moderately developed; the depressions on the upper surface of the bram scarcely marked, the soft parts, as the cor- pora striata, the optic protuberance, and the peduncles were small and atrophied ; and, on the other hand, the pituitary gland was often large. The cerebellum was scantily developed, flattened on its under surfaces, and generally firm. Its hemispheses were unlike; the lamella?