HEART. 9 Or in other words the area of the tricuspid appears from these calcula- tions to bear nearly the same relation to the area of the mitral that the area of the pulmonic does to that of the aortic orifice. He shows from measurements that the orifices arranged in the order of their magnitude are as follows:—i. Tricuspid ; 2. Mitral; 3. Pulmonic; 4. Aortic. He points out the importance of this law in enabling, when the dimensions of three of the openings are known, a calculation to be made of the proper area of the fourth, and hence to determine the degree of con- traction or dilatation present in disease. He further maintains the following propositions: that in normally constructed and acting hearts the times of ventricular contraction and of ventricular dilatation are equal in duration on the two sides; that equal, or almost equal, volumes of blood are received in diastole, and are expelled in systole from the two sides, and that the ventricles are of equal or almost equal capacity. He then refers to the velocity of the blood in diastole through the tri- cuspid and mitral orifices, and shows that the former is to the latter as 5 : 7, whilst the velocity of the currents through the aortic and pulmo- nary orifices are as 4: 3. The absolute velocity he gives as follows:— through tricuspid orifice, 5 inches per second; through pulmonic orifice, 17-3 inches per second; through mitral orifice, 7 inches per second; and through aortic orifice, 23 "i inches per second. Mr. Trotter,* in an able criticism on this paper, contests the correctness of the deductions drawn by Dr. Davies. Dr. Haughtonf endeavours to determine the mechanical work done by the human heart, and proceeds on the assumptions: 1. That the heart contracts seventy-five times in a minute. 2. That at each contrac- tion the left ventricle of the heart discharges three ounces of blood; and 3. That the hsetnastatic column in man stands at a height of c/923 feet. He multiplies the quantity of blood discharged at each contraction by the height of the hsemastatic column (3 x c/923 =29769), and regards the product as indicating the number of ounces that are raised one foot by each contraction of the heart. He again multiplies the product by the number of contractions of the heart in twenty-hours, and so he obtains 89706 foot tons as the measure of the daily work done by the left ventricle of the heart. Dr. Buchanan,! to whom I am indebted for the above resume of Dr. Haughton's paper, avails himself of a fourth element, viz. the area of the ventricular orifice of the aorta, which he estimates with Kiel as equal to -4187 of a square inch, and uses these data to determine the force of the heart as follows: he assumes that the heart beats seventy-two times in a minute; that it discharges two ounces of blood at each contraction, and that the height of the hfema- static column in man is eighty-eight inches. Now the weight of a cylin- der of blood eighty-eight inches in height, and having a basis of 0-4187 of a square inch, is twenty-two ounces. Further, two ounces of blood, the quantity discharged at each contraction, fill exactly of such a cylin- der eight inches. Dr. Haughton's computation is 2 x 88, and that is exactly equivalent to Dr. Buchanan's 22 x 8 ; the common product being * ' Journal of Anatomy,' iv, p. 295, 1870. t 'Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci.,' xlix, p. 47. X 'Lancet,' Nov. 12, 1870.