73 SCARLET FEVElt. let lever and measles, and was admitted with the prodromal symptoms of the latter affection. .Next day a red punctated rash was observed on the arms, accompanied by the usual symptoms of measles, and some angina. Twenty-four hours later the eruption appeared on the face and was clearly that of measles, while on the back it resembled that oi scarlet fever, the angina becoming diphtheritic. On the fourth day of the eruption the scarlet fever rash began to fade in places; elsewhere the two eruptions were seen together; both had disappeared next day. There was no albumen. On the sixth day a branny and scaly desqua- mation commenced at the same time ; the diphtheritic mischief and the accompanying adenitis became worse; abscesses and gangrene super- vened, and the child died of exhaustion on the twenty-third day. The second case was that of a scrofulous girl of four years, who was attacked, after having been almost two months in hospital for chorea, with fever and angina. On the third day a distinct scarlet fever rash appeared; on the fifth day the angina became diphtheritic, and on the sixth an erup- tion of measles, with cough and injected conjunctivae, showed itself; two days later both eruptions faded; the diphtheria and adenitis, as in the former case, increased; the desquamation was more branny than scaly, and on the twelfth day the child died of general diphtheria, complicated with double broncho-pneumonia. After discussing the views of Hildenbrand, Schonlein, &c, as to whether these cases belong to rubeola (Eotheln), he considers them to be mixed forms, in which one or other exanthem predominates (rougeole scarlatineuse and scarlatine morbilleuse). Scarlet Fever. In opposition (" Klin. Stud, fiber die Nierenkrankung bei Scharlach," 'Arch, der Heilk.,' 1869, xi, s. 130) to the view put forward by Eisen- schitz and others, that no case of scarlet fever occurs without some affection of the renal tubes, any more than measles without catarrh of the nasal, conjunctival, and respiratory passages, Thomas finds from his investigations during an epidemic, in which the urine was examined daily from the very commencement of the affection in twenty-five out of eighty cases, that the catarrh of the tubes, recognised by the presence of cloudy kidney-epithelium, sometimes connected in the form of casts, was, so far from being frequent, a by no means constant occurrence. He draws attention to the fact that in the course of severe febrile dis- eases, generally in consequence of an alteration in the circulatory sys- tem caused by the fever, the tube-epithelium is shed in great quantity, and that, consequently, no diagnosis of a specific catarrh should be made from this alone. On the other hand, certain cylinder-like bodies, frequently noticed by Thomas at the commencement of the scarlet fever affection, may perhaps owe their existence to this specific cause, as they are not to be found in normal urine. Of these bodies, to which he gives the name * cylindroids" (Cylindroide), he describes four varie- ties—(a) either transparent, of considerable length, corrugated, or forked, or broad, tolerably regular in form and size, presenting a longi- tudinally striped appearance, often split or fringed at the ends, in-