62 REPORT ON PRA.C1M.CAT/ MEDICINE. Consul at Zanzibar, and dated Nov. 25, 1869, it was announced that the cholera-wave, which had before reached Persia and Arabia, had passed down to Eastern Africa, in accordance with Bry den's an- ticipation. Virchow (' Archiv,' xlvii, 524) gives a case to illustrate the resem- blance in the pathological appearances, as well as the symptoms, between cholera and poisoning by arsenic. "The Cholera in W. Africa," 'Lancet,' 1869, i, 281, and cf. p. 441; Barth, " Resume du Rapport sur les Epidemies de Cholera qui ont regne en France en 1856, 18O5, et 1866," 'Bull, de l'Acad. de Med./ 1869, 271; Pettenkofer, " DieCholeraepidemien des Jahres 1865, in Gibraltar," ' Zeitsch. f. Biol.,' B. vi, 93, and "Die Choleraepidemien auf Malta und Gozo," ib., 143 ; Lewis, " Report on the Microscopic Objects found in Cholera Evacuations," pp. 78, with plates, Calcutta, 1870, and see in Calcutta Reports; Macpherson, "Cholera in the East," London, 1869 (Historical, on Contagion, Quaran- tine, &c.); Payne, " Quarantine and Cholera," Calcutta, 1869. Enteric (Typhoid) Fever. Liebermeister ('Deut. Archiv.,' vii, s. 156) gives a full account of three local epidemics of enteric fever, at Basle (1867), Zurich, andSolo- thurn (18615), in which the disease was limited to certain factories, houses, or barracks, and the cause of which was traced to the drinking of the same spring water charged with contaminated matters which had drained into it from neighbouring privies ; the epidemic ceasing after proper measures had been taken to prevent the drinking of the poisoned water. He states that at Basle the disease broke out in a factory situated on a canal, the water of which, receiving the contents of the closets, filtered through into a spring used for drinking and cooking; and,to throw further light on this mode of contagion, he adds an interesting note of some cases of arsenic-poisoning, occurring several years before on the same canal, but lower down. For some time the outfall of an aniline factory, containing large quantities of arsenious acid, had been allowed to empty itself into the canal ; the patients, suffering from the arsenic- poisoning, had been in the habit of drinking from a spring into winch water from the canal drained through. Asserting that to the cases given and quoted he could add many others, the author goes on to say that though he holds it proved that the typhoid-poison may be introduced into the body in drinking water, and that an epidemic may originate solely in this way, he does not look upon it as the only mode of infection, but that breathing air contaminated by typhoid dejections in privies, or on bed and body linen, is a very frequent cause. He allows it to be at present an open question whether contagion by drinking-water occurs more frequently, in proportion to other causes ; and he makes use of the epidemic in the Solothurn barracks (which is fully described m the paper) to show that there may be conditions, lasting throughout the vear which cause, after a total cessation of typhoid during the spring, and apart from any fresh introduction from without, a new eruption of the fever in the later part of the summer, attaining its height m the autumn, or even in the winter. Thus, as at Solothurn there may be two sets of fever-patients, the first owing their attack directly to the drinking-water, the second to poison emanating from the dejections,