RErOUT ON SURGERY. 280 Aneurism of the transvcrsalis colli artery.—Mr. Pick describes a specimen. The patient, a soldier set. 45, was under care when phthisis set in rapidly and caused death. The tumour had not increased nor apparently diminished while under treatment by compression. (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xx, p. 145.) Aneurism of arch of aorta; tracheotomy.—A case of aneurism of arch of aorta, without the usual symptoms, and in which tracheotomy was per- formed, is noted in ' St. Thom. Hosp. Kep.,' p. 331, 1870. Aneurism of external iliac.—Mr. J. Hilton has communicated a paper to the ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' lii, p. 308, on a case of aneurism affecting the right external iliac and femoral arteries, and the right popliteal. A tourniquet was applied over the right common femoral, the patient being under the influence of chloroform. After six hours the tumours remained nearly as before. In twelve days a second trial was made for six hours ; pulsation in the upper aneurism not having ceased, the tourniquet was again applied for four hours. The patient required no further treatment. Femoral aneurism.—A case of femoral aneurism under Mr. Birkett's care, treated by compression of the common iliac, and which ended fatally ; will be found in ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' lii, p. 317. A case of aneurism of the superficial femoral (middle third), in which a rapid cure followed compression, partly digital and partly by tourniquet, is noted in the 'Med. Times and Gazette,' Aug. 21, 1869. The case was under the care of Dr. Eyton 0. Williams. Sapid compression.—Mr. Russell relates a case of aneurism of the left groin treated by digital compression for twenty-four hours over the external iliac. The tumour became slightly harder, but the pulsation remained the same. An ordinary tourniquet was applied to the common iliac under chloroform. After nearly nine hours the pulsation became almost imperceptible, and then stopped. During the latter part of this time, however, digital compression was used as well. Pulsation recurred at times. After a fortnight Lester's abdominal tourniquet was applied to the common iliac for five hours under chloroform. This was sufficient. The treatment extended over five or six weeks. (' Brit. Med. Jour.,' Oct. 22, 1870, p. 436.) Compression, aneurism of profunda. — A case of aneurism of the profunda artery under the care of Mr. Erichsen has been cured by compression. ('Med. Times and Gazette,' April 23, 1870.) Ligature of external iliac.—Successful cases of ligature of the external iliac are recorded by Mr. West ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 13, 1869) ; Dr. Land (Nov. 27, 1869); Mr. Erichsen ('Med. Times and Gazette,' April 23, 1870) ; Mr. Smith, May 28, 1869; Dr. Payrer, Jan. 1, 1870; and by Assistant-Surgeon McFarlane. Compression in popliteal aneurism.—A case of popliteal aneurism cured by eight hours' compression with a weight of about eleven