301 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE CESOPI1AGUS, ETC. the ' Lancet,' May 15, 1869. The buckle became impacted in the oeso- phagus, but was pushed down, it was supposed, into the stomach after the lapse of a fortuight. Three months later the patient was in excel- lent health, but no further trace of the buckle was seen. Mr. Bond, who records the case, thinks the buckle must have been still in the stomach. In the 'Lancet,' October 16, and 'British Medical Journal,' October 23, 1869, is a note of the case of a man who swallowed an artificial tooth, which lodged in his oesophagus. Mr. Dearden made ineffectual efforts to force the tooth down, and then succeeded in fishing it up by means of a probang, to which he had attached several loops of silver wire ; one of these caught in the frame attached to the tooth, and after some trouble the latter was removed. Mr. R. C. Todd records a case in which a small-sized teaspoon, of Britannia metal, remained impacted in the oesophagus for thirty-six hours. A lady swallowed it purposely. Mr. Todd felt it, and succeeded in netting hold of the bowl, which was uppermost, and extracted the spoon. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' November 13, 1869.) Lodgvient of artificial teeth in the pharynx, Sfc—Mr. Pollock narrates three cases ('Lancet,' April 3, 1869). A lady swallowed two central incisors attached to a small gold plate. They remained for nineteen days in the oesophagus, and then the plate was pushed, by Mr. Pollock, into the stomach. At the end of seventy-two days from the accident she vomited, and heard something ring against the basin. This proved to be the plate. A figure of the plate is given. The second case was that of a lady who swallowed six teeth set in a gold plate. They passed per rectum on the fourth day. There were no sharp or projecting points, though the plate was an inch and three quarters long. The first was smaller, but irregular. The longest diameter was three quarters of an inch. A figure of the second plate is also given. In a third case the patient, a young man, was brought to the hospital quite dead. He was running and fell, as was supposed, in a fit. The autopsy revealed a plate with three teeth, and having a sharp prominent hook at each end, to grasp some teeth in the upper jaw, lying loosely upon the epiglottis. A case published by Mr. Paget is then quoted. An old gentleman missed a set of teeth. He was suspected to have swallowed them, and had some difficulty of swallowing and of breathing. Pour months after the accident Mr. Paget saw him, and then, on depressing the back of the tongue extremely, he saw something white near the epiglottis. Passing his finger close to this, he succeeded in hooking out the lost false teeth (a whole set). It measured i\ in. from before backwards, and if in. across. After noticing Mr. Cock's cases of cesophagotomy, the question of treatment, generally, is summed up. If the foreign body be lodged in the pharynx, try and hook it up. If this cannot be accomplished, and there be much inconvenience from its presence, cesophagotomy must be performed. If the body has reached the oesophagus, try and push it down gently, and then if it does not pass through the stomach give an emetic on a full stomach. Aperient medicines should be quite avoided.