388 ARTERIES. Plan of the Relations of the Abdominal Aorta. In front. Lesser omentum and stomach. Branches of coeliac axis and solar plexus. Splenic vein. Pancreas. Left renal vein. Transverse duodenum. Mesentery. Aortic plexus. RigJit side. ^^\^ Left side. Right crus of Diaphragm. / \ Sympathetic nerve. Inferior vena cava. ( Abdominal \ I^eft semi-lunar ganglion. Vena azygos. Thoracic duct. Right semi-lunar ganglion. Behind. Left lumbar veins. Receptaculum chyli. Thoracic duct. Vertebral column. Surgical Anatomy. Aneurisms of the abdominal aorta near the coeliac axis communicate in nearly equal proportion with the anterior and posterior parts of this vessel. When an aneurismal sac is connected with the back part of the abdominal aorta, it usually produces absorption of the bodies of the vertebrae, and forms a pulsating tumour, that presents itself in the left hypochondriac or epigastric regions, accompanied by symptoms of disturbance of the alimentary canal. Pain is invariably present, and is usually of two kinds, a fixed and constant pain in the back, caused by the tumour pressing on or displacing the branches of the solar plexus and splanchnic nerves, and a sharp lancinating pain, radiating along those branches of the lumbar nerves pressed on by the tumour; hence the pain in the loins, the testes, the hypogastrium, and in the lower limb (usually of the left side). This form of aneurism usually bursts into the peritoneal cavity, or behind the peritoneum, in the left hypochondriac region; or it may form a large aneurismal sac, extending down as low as Poupart's ligament; haemorrhage in these cases being generally very extensive, but slowly produced, and never rapidly fatal. When an aneurismal sac is connected with the front of the aorta near the coeliac axis, it forms a pulsating tumour in the left hypochondriac or epigastric regions, usually attended with symptoms of disturbance of the alimentary canal, as sickness, dyspepsia, or coDsti- pation, and accompanied by pain, which is constant but nearly always fixed in the loins, epigastrium, or some part of the abdomen; the radiating pain being rare, as the lumbar nerves are seldom imphcated. This form of aneurism may burst into the peritoneal cavity, or behind the peritoneum, between the layers of the mesentery, or, more rarely, into the duodenum; it rarely extends backwards so as to affect the spine. Branches of the Abdominal Aorta. Phrenic. ( Gastric. Renal. Coeliac axis \ Hepatic. Spermatic. I Splenic. Inferior mesenteric. Superior mesenteric. Lumbar. Supra-renal. Sacra media. The branches may be divided into two sets: i. Those supplying the viscera. 2. Those distributed to the walls of the abdomen. Visceral Branches. Parietal Branches. iGastric. Phrenic. Hepatic. Lumbar. Splenic. Sacra media. Superior mesenteric. Inferior mesentric. Supra-renal. Renal. Spermatic.