744 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. two or three cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve; these turn round the inferior border of the Glutseus maximus, and are distributed to the integument in this region. 389.—Dissection of Perinseum and Ischio-Eectal Region. The External sphincter is a thin flat plane of muscular fibres, elliptical in shape, and intimately adherent to the integument surrounding the margin of the anus. It measures about three or four inches in length, from its anterior to its posterior extremity, being about an inch in breadth, opposite the anus. It arises from the tip of the coccyx, by a narrow tendinous band; and from the superficial fascia in front of that bone; and is inserted into the tendinous centre of the perinaeum, joining with the Transversus perinasi, and the other muscles inserted into this part. Like other sphincter muscles, it consists of two planes of muscular fibre, which surround the margin of the anus, and join at the commissure before and behind. Relations. By its superficial surface^ with the integument; by its deep surface it is in contact with the Internal sphincter; and is separated from the Levator ani by loose areolar tissue. The Sphincter ani is a voluntary muscle, supplied by the hsemorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve. This muscle is divided in the operation for fistula in ano; and also in some cases of fissure of the rectum, especially if attended with much pain or spasm. The object of its division is to keep the parts at rest and in contact during the healing process. The Internal sphincter is a muscular ring, about half an inch in breadth, which surrounds the lower extremity of the rectum, about an inch from the margin of the anus. This muscle is about two lines in thickness, and is formed by an aggregation of the involuntary circular fibres of the intestine. It is paler in colour, and less coarse in texture, than the External sphincter. The ischio-rectal fossa is situated between the end of the rectum and the tuberosity of the ischium on each side. It is triangular in shape, its base directed to the surface is formed by the integument of the ischio-rectal region; its apex, directed upwards, corresponds to the point of division of the obturator fascia, and the thin membrane given ofi" from it, which covers the outer surface of the Levator ani (ischio-rectal fascia). Its dimensions are about an inch in breadth, at the base, and about two inches in depth, being deeper behind than in front. It is bounded, internally, by the Sphincter ani. Levator ani, and Coccygeus muscles; externally, by the tuberosity of the ischium, and the obturator fascia, which covers the inner surface of the Obturator internus muscle; in front, it is limited by the line of junction of the superficial and deep perinasal fascise; and behind, by the margin of the Glutssus maximus, and the great sacro-sciatic