295 ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. relation, by its anterior surface, with the fascia lata, Rectus and Sartorius; be- hind, with the capsule of the hip-joint, a synovial bursa common to it, and the Psoas magnus being interposed. Nerves. The Psoce muscles are supplied by the anterior branches of the lumbar nerves. The Iliacus from the anterior crural. Actions. The Psoas and Iliacus muscles, acting from above, flex the thigh upon the pelvis, and, at the same time, rotate the femur outwards, from the obliquity of their insertion into the inner and back part of that bone. Acting from below, the femur being fixed, the muscles of both sides bend the lumbar portion of the spine and pelvis forwards. They also serve to maintain the erect position, by support- ing the spine and pelvis upon the femur, and assist in raising the trunk when the body is in the recumbent posture. The Psoas parvus is a tensor of the iliac fascia. Antemor Femoral Region. Tensor Vaginse Femoris. Sartorius. Rectus. Vastus Externus. Vastus Internus. Crur^eus. Sub-Cruraius. 18 6—^Dissection of Lower Extremity. Front view. Dissection. To expose the muscles and fasciae in this region, an incision should be made along Poupart's ligament, from the spine of the ihum to the pubes, from the centre of this, a vertical incision must be carried along the middle line of the thigh to below the knee- joint, and connected with a transverse inci- sion, carried from the inner to the outer side of the leg. The flaps of integument having been removed, the superficial and deep fascise should be examined. The more advanced student would commeDce the study of this region by an examination of the anatomy of femoral hernia, and Scarpa's triangle, the in- cisions for the dissection of which are marked out in the accompanying figure. Fasciae of the Thigh. The superficial fascia, forms a con- tinuous layer over the whole of the lower extremity, consisting of areolar tis- sue, containing in its meshes much adipose matter, and capable of being separated into two or more layers, between which are found the superficial vessels and nerves. It varies in thickness in diffe- rent parts of the limb; in the sole of the foot it is so thin, as to be scarcely demon- strable, the integument being closely ad- herent to the deep fascia beneath, but in the groin it is thicker, and the two layers are separated from one another by the superficial inguinal glands, the internal saphenous vein, and several smaller ves- sels. Of these two layers, the most superficial is continuous above with the superficial fascia of the abdomen, the deep layer becoming blended with the fascia lata, a little below Poupart's ligament. The deep layer of superficial fascia is in- timately adherent to the margins of the i. Dosseefcon FEMORAL HERNIA, A SCARPAS TRIANGLE FRONTC/-THICH / B . FRONT (rf LEO //- , DORSUMgf FOOT