CRURAL CANAL; FEMORAL RING. 739 adherent to the contained vessels about an inch below the saphenous opening, becoming blended with the areolar sheath of the vessels, but opposite Poupart's ligament it is much larger than is required to contain them; hence the funnel- shaped form which it presents. The outer border of the sheath is perforated bj the genito-crural nerve. Its inner border is pierced by the internal saphenous vein, and numerous lymphatic vessels. In front it is covered by the iliac portion of the fascia lata; and behind it is the pubic portion of the same fascia. Deep Crural Arch. Passing across the front of the crural sheath, and closely connected with it, is a thickened band of fibres, called the deep crural arch. It is apparently a thickening of the fascia transversalis, joined externally to the centre of Poupart's ligament, and arching across the front of the crural sheath, to be inserted by a broad attachment into the pectineal line, behind the conjoined tendon. In some subjects, this structure is not very prominently marked, and not unfrequently it is altogether wanting. If the anterior wall of the sheath is removed, the femoral artery and vein are seen lying side by side, a thin septum separating the two vessels, and another septum separates the vein from the inner wall of the sheath, the septa are stretched between the anterior and posterior walls of the sheath, so that each vessel is enclosed in a separate compartment. The interval left between the vein and the inner wall of the sheath is not filled up by any structure, excepting a little loose areolar tissue, a few lymphatic vessels, and occasionally a lymphatic gland ; this is the femoral or crural canal, through which a portion of intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural canal is the narrow interval between the femoral vein and the inner wall of the crural sheath. Its length is from a quarter to half an inch, and it extends from Gimbernat's ligament to the upper part of the saphenous opening. Its anterior ivall is very narrow, and formed by the fascia transversalis, Pou- part's ligament, and the falciform process of the fascia lata. Its posterior wall is formed by the iliac fascia and the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Its outer wall is formed by the fibrous septum covering the inner side of the femoral vein. Its inner wall is formed by the junction of the transversalis and iliac fasciae, which forms the inner side of the femoral sheath and covers the outer edsre of Gimbernat's ligament. This canal has two orifices: a lower one, the saphenous opening, closed by the cribriform fascia; an upper one, femoral or crural ring, closed by the septum crurale. The femoral or crural ring (fig. 386) is the upper opening of the femoral canal, and leads into the cavity of the abdomen. It is bounded in front by Poupart's ligament and the deep crural arch; behind, by the pubes, covered by the Pectineus muscle, and the pubic portion of the fascia lata; internally, by Gimbernat's ligament, the conjoined tendon, the transversalis fascia, and the deep crural arch; externally, by the femoral vein, covered by its sheath. The femoral ring is of an oval form, its long diameter, directed transversely, measures about half an inch, and it is larger in the female than in the male; hence one of the reasons of the greater frequency of femoral hernia in the former sex. Position of Parts around the Ring. The spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female, lie immediately above the anterior margin of the femoral ring, and may be divided in an operation for femoral hernia if the incision for the relief of the stricture is not of limited extent. In the female this is of little importance, but in the male the spermatic artery and vas deferens may be divided. The femoral vein lies on the outer side of the ring. The epigastric artery, in its passage inwards from the external iliac to the umbilicus, passes across the upper and outer angle of the crural ring, and is con- sequently in great danger of being wounded if the stricture is divided in a direc- tion upwards and outwards. 3 B 2