TEMPORAL BONE. 35 The Temporal Bones. The Temporal Bones are so called because they occupy that part of the head on which the hair first begins to turn gray, thus indicating the age. They are situated at the side and base of the skull, and present for examination a squamous^ mastoid, and petrous portion. The Squamous Portion {squama, a scale), (fig. 30), the most anterior and superior part of the bone, is scale-like in form, thin and translucent in texture. Its outer surface is smooth, convex, and grooved at its back part for the deep tem- poral arteries; it afibrds attachment to the Temporal muscle, and forms part of the temporal fossa. At its back part may be seen a curved ridge—part of the tem- poral ridge; it serves for the attachment of the temporal fascia, limits the origin of the Temporal muscle, and marks the boundary between the squamous and mastoid portions of the bone. Projecting from the lower part of the squamous portion, is 30.—Left Temporal Bone. Outer Surface. a long arched outgrowth of bone, the zygomatic process. It is at first directed outwards, its two surfaces looking upwards and downwards; it then appears as if twisted upon itself, and takes a direction forwards, its surfaces now looking in- wards and outwards. The superior border of this process is long, thin, and sharp, and serves for the attachment of the temporal fascia. The inferior, short, thick, and arched, has attached to it some fibres of the Masseter muscle. Its outer sur- face is convex and subcutaneous. Its inner, concave; also affords attachment to the Masseter. The extremity, broad, and deeply serrated, articulates with the malar bone. This process is connected to the temporal bone by three divisions, called the roots of the zygomatic process, an anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior, which is short, but broad and strong, runs transversely inwards into a rounded eminence, the eminentia articularis. This eminence forms the front boundary of the glenoid fossa, and in the recent state is covered with cartilage. The middle root forms the outer margin of the glenoid cavity; running obliquely D 2