OF THE BACK. 241 outwards, it is inserted into the margin of the triangular smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. This small muscle is usually separated from the Rhomboideus major by a slight cellular interval. The Rhomboideus Major is situated immediately below the preceding, the adja- cent margins of the two being occasionally united. It arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrse and the supra- spinous ligament, and is inserted into a narrow, tendinous arch, attached above, to the triangular surface near the spine; below, to the inferior angle, the arch being connected to the border of the scapula by a thin membrane. When the arch extends, as it occasionally does, but a short distance, the muscular fibres are inserted into the scapula itself. Relations. By their superficial surface^ with the integument, and Trapezius; the Rhomboideus major, with the Latissimus dorsi. By their deep surface, with the Serratus posticus superior, posterior scapular artery, part of the Erector spinas, the Intercostal muscles and ribs. Nerves, These muscles are supplied by branches from the fifth cervical nerve, and additional filaments from the deep branches of the cervical plexus are distri- buted to the Levator anguli scapulae. Actions. The movements effected by the preceding muscles are numerous, as may be conceived from their extensive attachment. If the head is fixed, the upper part of the Trapezius will elevate the point of the shoulder, as in supporting weights; when the middle and lower fibres are brought into action, partial rotation of the scapula upon the side of the chest is produced. If the shoulders are fixed, both Trapezii acting together will draw the head directly backwards, or if only one acts, the head is drawn to the corresponding side. The Latissimus dorsi, when it acts upon the humerus, draws it backwards and downwards, and at the same time rotates it inwards. If the arm is fixed, the muscle may act in various ways upon the trunk; thus, it may raise the lower ribs and assist in forcible inspiration, or if both arms are fixed, the two muscles may conspire with the Abdominal and great Pectoral muscles in drawing the whole trunk forwards, as in climbing or walking on crutches. The Levator anguli scapulae raises the superior angle of the scapula after it has been depressed by the lower fibres of the Trapezius, Avhilst the Rhomboid muscles carry the inferior angle backwards and upwards, thus producing a slight rotation of the scapula upon the side of the chest. If the shoulder be fixed, the Levator scapulge may incline the neck to the corresponding side. The Rhomboid muscles acting together with the middle and inferior fibres of the Trapezius, will draw the scapula directly backwards towards the spine. Third Layer. Serratus Posticus Superior. Serratus Posticus Inferior. c. 1 . ( Splenius Capitis, feplenius \ rf. . ^ IT ^ I Splenms Colli. Dissection. The third layer of muscles is brought into view by the entire removal of the preceding, together with the Latissimus dorsi. To effect this, the Levator anguli scapulse and Rhomboid muscles should be detached near their insertion, and reflected upwards, thus exposing the Serratus posticus superior; the Latissimus dorsi should then be divided in the middle by a vertical incision carried from its upper to its lower part, and the two halves of the muscle reflected. The Serratus Posticus Superior is a thin, fiat muscle, quadrilateral in form, situated at the upper and back part of the thorax. It arises by a thin and broad aponeurosis, from the ligamentum nuchse and from the spinous processes of the last cervical and two or three upper dorsal vertebras. Inclining downwards and outwards, it becomes muscular, and is inserted by four fleshy digitations, into the upper borders of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, a little beyond their angles.