AXILLARY. B B 2 Relations of P'irst Portion of the Axillary Artery In front. Pectoralis major. Costo-coracoid membrane. Cephalic vein. Outer side. Brachial plexus. Inner side. Axillary vein Behind. First intercostal space, and Intercostal muscle. First serration of Serratus magnus. Posterior thoracic nerve. The second portion of the axillary artery lies beneath the Pectoralis minor. It is covered, i?i front, by the Pectoralis major and minor muscles; behind, it is separated from the Subscapularis by a cellular interval; on the inner side, it is in contact with the axillary vein. The brachial plexus of nerves surrounds the artery, and separates it from direct contact with the vein and adjacent muscles. Relations of Second Portion of the Axillary Artery. In front. Pectoralis major and minor. Outer side. Brachial plexus. Inner side. Axillary vein. Behind. Subscapularis. The third portion of the axillary artery lies below the Pectoralis minor. It is in relation, in front, with the lower border of the Pectoralis major above, being covered only by the integument and fascia below; behind, with the lower part of the Subscapularis, and the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major; on its outer side, with the Coraco-brachialis; on its inner, or thoracic side, with the axillary vein. The brachial plexus of nerves bears the following relation to the artery in this part of its course; on the outer side is the median nerve, and the musculo-cutaneous for a short distance; on the inner side, the ulnar, the internal, and lesser internal cutaneous nerves; and behind, the musculo-spiral, and circumflex, the latter extending only to the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle. Relations op Third Portion of the Axillary Artery. In front. Integument and fascia. Pectoralis major. Outer side. Coraco- brachialis. Median nerve. Musculo-cutaneous nerve. Axillary \ Artery. ) Third portion. / Inner side. Ulnar nerve. Internal cutaneous nerves. Axillary vein. Behind. Subscapularis. Tendons of Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major. Musculo-spiral, and circumflex nerves.