438 VEINS. front of the trachea, behind the Sterno-thyroid muscles, communicating with its fellow by transverse branches, and terminates in the left vena innominata. The right one, which is placed a little to the right of the median line, opens into the right vena innominata, just at its junction with the superior cava. These veins receive tracheal and inferior laryngeal branches, and are provided with valves at their termination in the innominate veins. The Superior Intercostal Veins return the blood from the upper intercostal spaces. The right superior intercostal, much smaller than the left, closely corresponds with the superior intercostal artery, receiving the blood from the first, or first and second intercostal spaces, and terminates in the right vena innominata. Some- times it passes down, and opens into the vena azygos major. The left superior intercostal is always larger than the right, but varies in size in different subjects, being small when the left upper azygos vein is large, and vice versa. It is usually formed by branches from the two or three upper inter- costal spaces, and, passing across the arch of the aorta, terminates in the left vena innominata. The left bronchial vein opens into it. The Superior Vena Cava receives the blood which is conveyed to the heart from the whole of the upper half of the body. It is a short trunk, varying from two inches and a half to three inches in length, formed by the junction of the two venae innominatae. It commences immediately below the cartilage of the first rib on the right side, and, descending vertically downwards, enters the peri- cardium about an inch and a half above the heart, and terminates in the upper part of the right auricle. In its course, it describes a slight curve, the convexity of which is turned to the right side. Relations. In front, with the thoracic fascia, which separates it from the thymus gland, and from the sternum; behind, with the root of the right lung. On its right side, with the phrenic nerve and the pleura of the right side; on its left side, with the ascending part of the aorta. The portion contained within the pericardium, is covered by the serous layer of that membrane, in its anterior three-fourths. It receives the vena azygos major, just before it enters the peri- cardium, and several small veins from the pericardium and parts in the media- stinum. The superior vena cava has no valves. The Azygos Veins connect together the superior and inferior venae cavae, supplying the place of these vessels in that part of the trunk in which they are deficient, on account of their connection with the heart. The larger, or right azygos vein, commences opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra, by receiving a branch from the right lumbar veins; sometimes by a branch from the renal vein, or from the inferior vena cava. It enters the thorax through the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, and passes along the right side of the vertebral column to the third dorsal vertebra, where it arches forward, over the root of the right lung, and terminates in the superior vena cava, just before that vessel enters the pericardium. Whilst passing through the aortic opening of the Diaphragm, it lies with the thoracic duct on the right side of the aorta; and in the thorax, it lies upon the intercostal arteries, on the right side of the aorta and thoracic duct, covered by the pleura. Branches. It receives nine or ten lower intercostal veins of the right side, the vena azygos minor, several oesophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins; near its termination, the right bronchial vein; and it is occasionally connected with the right superior intercostal vein. A few imperfect valves are found in this vein; but its branches are provided with complete valves. The intercostal veins on the left side, below the two or three upper intercostal spaces, usually form two trunks, named the left lower, and the left upper, azygos veins. The left lower, or smaller azygos vein, commences in the lumbar region, by a branch from one of the lumbar veins, or from the left renal. It passes into the thorax, through the left crus of the Diaphragm, and, ascending on the left side of