493 LATERAL VENTRICLE—MIDDLE CORNU. entire length of the floor of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. At its lower extremity it becomes enlarged, and presents a number of rounded elevations with intervening depressions, which, from presenting some resemblance to the claw of an animal, is called the pes hippocampi. If a transverse section is made through the hippocampus major, it will be seen that this eminence is the inner surface of the convolution of the corpus callosum, doubled upon itself like a horn, the v^^hite convex portion projecting into the cavity of the ventricle; the grey portion being on the surface of the cerebrum, the edge of which, slightly indented, forms the fascia dentata. The white matter of the hippocampus major is continuous through the corpus fimbriatum, with the fornix and corpus callosum. The pes accessorius, or eminentia collateralis, has been already mentioned, as a white eminence, varying in size, placed between the hippocampus major and minor, at the junction of the posterior with the descending cornu. Like the hippo- campi, it is formed of white matter corresponding to one of the sulci, between two convolutions protruding into the cavity of the ventricle. The corpus Jimbriatum is a continuation of the posterior pillar of the fornix, prolonged, as already mentioned, from the central cavity of the lateral ventricle. Fascia dentata. On separating the inner border of the corpus fimbriatum from the choroid plexus, and raising the edge of the former, a serrated band of grey substance, the edge of the grey substance of the middle lobe will be seen beneath it: this is the fascia dentata. Correctly speaking, it is placed external to the cavity of the descending cornu. The transverse fissure is seen on separating the corpus fimbriatum from' the thalamus opticus. It is situated beneath the fornix, extending from the middle line behind, downwards on either side, to the end of the descending cornu, being bounded on one side by the fornix and the hemisphere, and on the other by the thalamus opticus. Through this fissure the pia mater passes from the exterior of the brain into the ventricles, to form the choroid plexuses. Where the pia mater projects into the lateral ventricle, beneath the edge of the fornix, it is covered by a prolongation of the lining membrane, which excludes it from the cavity. The septum lucidum forms the internal boundary of the lateral ventricle. It is a thin, semi-transparent septum, attached, above, to the under surface of the corpus callosum; below, to the anterior part of the fornix; and, in front of this, to the prolonged portion of the corpus callosum. It is triangular in form, broad in front, and narrow behind, its surfaces looking towards the cavities of the ventricles. The septum consists of two laminae, separated by a narrow interval, the fifth ventricle. Each lamina consists of an internal layer of white substance, covered by the lining membrane of the fifth ventricle; and an outer layer of grey matter, covered by the lining membrane of the lateral ventricle. The cavity of the ventricle is lined by a serous membrane, covered with epithelium, and contains fluid. In the foetus, and in some animals, this cavity communicates, below, with the third ventricle; but in the adult, it forms a separate cavity. In cases of serous effusion into the ventricles, the septum is often found softened and partially broken down. The fifth ventricle may be exposed by cutting through the septun^, and attached portion of the corpus callosum, with the scissors; after examining which, the corpus callosum should be cut across, towards its anterior part, and the two portions carefully dissected, the one forwards, the other backwards, when the fornix will be exposed. The fornix is a longitudinal lamella, of fibrous matter, situated beneath the corpus callosum, with which it is continuous behind, but separated from it in front by the septum lucidum. It may be described as consisting of two symmetrical halves, one for either hemisphere. These two portions are joined together in the middle line, where they form the body, but are separated from one another in front and behind; in front, forming the anterior crura, and behind, the posterior crura.