OSTEOLOGY. 82 origin of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. In well-nmrked bones, ridges limiting the attachment of these muscles are very distinct. Its posterior surface, concave and smooth, affords attachment on each side to the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. The superior border, the thickest, presents at its centre the interclavicular notch; and, on each side, an oval articular surface, directed upwards, backwards, and outwards, for articulation with the sternal end of the clavicle. The inferior border presents an oval rough surface, covered in the recent state with a thin layer of cartilage, for articulation with the second portion of the bone. The lateral borders are marked above by an articular depression for the first costal cartilage, and below by a small facet, which, with a similar facet on the upper angle of the middle portion of the bone, forms a notch for the reception of the costal cartilage of the second rib. These articular surfaces are separated by a narrow curved edge which slopes from above downwards and inwards. The Seco7id Piece of the sternum, or gladiolus, considerably longer, narrower, and thinner than the superior, is broader below than above. Its anterior surface is nearly flat, directed upwards and forwards, and marked by three transverse lines which cross the bone opposite the third, fourth, and fifth articular depressions. These lines indicate the point of union of the four separate pieces of which this part of the bone consists at an early period of life. At the junction of the third and fourth pieces, is occasionally seen an orifice, the sternal foramen; it varies in size and form in different individuals, and pierces the bone from before backwards. This surface affords attachment on each side to the sternal origin of the Pectoralis major. The posterior surface, slightly concave, is also marked by three transverse lines ; but they are less distinct than those in front: this surface affords attach- ment below, on each side, to the Triangulai-is sterni muscle, and occasionally presents the posterior opening of the sternal foramen. The superior border presents an oval surface for articulation with the manubrium. The inferior border is narrow and articulates with the ensiform appendix. Each lateral border presents at each superior angle a small facet, which, with a similar facet on the manubrium, forms a cavity for the cartilage of the second rib; the four succeeding angular depressions receive the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth ribs, whilst each inferior angle presents a small facet, which, with a corresponding one on the ensiform appendix, forms a notch for the cartilage of the seventh rib. These articular depressions are separated by a series of curved inter-articular intervals, which diminish in length from above downwards, and correspond to the intercostal spaces. The costal cartilage of each true rib, excepting the first, is thus seen to articulate with the sternum at the line of junction of two of its primitive compo- nent segments. This is well seen in many of the lower animals, where the separate parts of the bone remain ununited longer than in man. In this respect a striking analogy exists between the mode of connection of the ribs with the vertebral column, and the connection of their cartilages with the sternal column. The Third Piece of the sternum, the ensiform or xiphoid appendix, is the smallest of the three; it is thin and elongated in form, cartilaginous in structure in youth, but more or less ossified at its upper part in the adult. Its anterior surface affords attachment to the costo-xiphoid ligaments. Its posterior surface, to some of the fibres of the Diaphragm and Triangularis sterni muscles. Its lateral borders, to the aponeurosis of the abdominal muscles. Above, it is con- tinuous with the lower end of the gladiolus; below, by its pointed extremity, it gives attachment to the linea alba, and at each superior angle presents a facet for the lower half of the cartilage of the seventh rib. This portion of the sternum is very various in appearance, being sometimes pointed, broad and thin, sometimes bifid, or perforated by a round hole, occasionally curved, or deflected considerably to one or the other side. Structure. This bone is composed of delicate cancellated texture, covered by a thin layer of compact tissue, which is thickest in the manubrium, between the articular facets for the clavicles. Development. The sternum, including the ensiform appendix, is developed by