528 CRANIAL NERVES. the side of the trachea, behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries. On the left side, it arises in front of the arch of the aorta, and winds from before backwards round the vessel at the point where the obliterated remains of the ductus arteriosus are connected with it, and then ascends to the side of the trachea. The nerves on both sides ascend in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, and, piercing the lower fibres of the Inferior constrictor muscle, enter the larynx behind the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage with the cricoid, being distributed to all the muscles of the larynx, excepting the Crico- thyroid, and joining with the superior laryngeal. The recurrent laryngeal, as it winds round the subclavian artery and aorta, gives off several cardiac filaments, which unite with cardiac branches from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. As it ascends the neck, it gives ofi* oesophageal branches, more numerous on the left than on the right side, which supply the mucous membrane and muscular coat of the oesophagus; tracheal branches to the mucous membrane and muscular fibres of the trachea; and some pharyngeal filaments to the Inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The cervical cardiac branches, two or three in number, arise from the pneumo- gastric, at the upper and lower part of the neck. The superior branches are small, and communicate with the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, and with the great cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac branches, one on each side, arise at the lower part of the neck, just above the first rib. On the right side, this branch passes in front of the arteria innominata, and anastomoses with the superior cardiac nerve. On the left side, it passes in front of the arch of the aorta, and anastomoses either with the superior cardiac nerve, or with the cardiac plexus. The thoracic cardiac branches, on the right side, arise from the trunk of the pneumogastric, as it lies by the side of the trachea: passing inwards, they terminate in the deep cardiac plexus. On the left side, they arise from the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The anterior pulmonary branches, two or three in number, and of small size • are distributed on the anterior aspect of the root of the lungs. They join with filaments from the sympathetic, and form the anterior pulmonary plexus. The posterior pulmonary branches, more numerous and larger than the anterior, are distributed on the posterior aspect of the root of the lung: they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, and form the posterior pulmonary plexus. Branches from both plexuses accompany the ramifications of the air-tubes through the substance of the lungs. The oesophageal branches are given off from the pneumogastric both above and below the pulmonary branches. The latter are the more numerous and largest. They form, together with branches from the opposite nerve, the oeso- phageal plexus. The gastric branches are the terminal filaments of the pneumogastric nerve. The nerve on the right side is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach, and joins the left side of the coeliac plexus, and the splenic plexus. The nerve on the left side is distributed over the anterior surface of the stomach, some filaments passing across the great cul-de-sac, and others along the lesser curvature. They unite with branches of the right nerve and sympathetic, some filaments passing through the lesser omentum to the left hepatic plexus. For fuller detail concerning the Cranial Nerves, the student may refer to F. Arnold's ' Icones Nervorum Capitis.'