ABDOMEN. 627 brim of the pelvis. The muscles forming the boundaries of this cavity are lined upon their inner surface by a layer of fascia, differently named according to the part to which it is attached. This cavity contains the greater part of the alimentary canal, some of the accessory organs to digestion, the liver, pancreas, and spleen, and the kidneys and supra-renal capsules. Most of these structures, as well as the wall of the cavity in which they are contained, are covered by an extensive and complicated serous membrane, the peritoneum. The apertures found in the walls of the abdomen, for the transmission of structures to or from it, are the umbilicus^ for the transmission (in the foetus) of the umbilical vessels; the caval opening in the Diaphragm, for the transmission of the inferior vena cava; the aortic opening, for the passage of the aorta, vena azygos, and thoracic duct; and the oesophageal opening, for the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. Beloiv, there are two apertures on each side; one for the passage of the femoral vessels, and the other for the transmission of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. jRegions. For convenience of description of the viscera, as well as of reference to the morbid condition of the contained parts, the abdomen is artificially divided into certain regions. Thus, if two circular lines are drawn round the body, the one parallel with the cartilages of the ninth ribs, and the other with the highest point of the crests of the ilia, the abdominal cavity is divided into three zones, an upper, a middle, and a lower. If two parallel lines are drawn from the cartilage of the eighth rib on each side, down to the centre of Poupart's ligament, each of these zones is subdivided into three parts, a middle and two lateral. The middle region of the upper zone is called the epigastric (eVt, over; <ya<7Tr}p, the stomach); and the two lateral regions, the right and left hypochon- driac (vTTo, under; ')(ovhpoL, the cartilages). The central region of the middle zone is the umbilical: and the two lateral regions, the right and left lumbar. The middle region of the lower zone is the hypogastric or pubic region; and the lateral regions are the right and left inguinal. The parts contained in these different regions are the following (fig. 331). Right Hypochondriac. The right lobe of the liver and the gall-bladder, the duodenum, hepatic flexure of the colon, upper part of the right kidney, and right supra-renal cap- sule. Right Lumbar. Ascending colon, lower part of the right kidney, and some convolutions of the small intestines. Right Inguinal. The csecum, appendix cseci, ureter, and spermatic vessels. Epigastric Region. The middle and pylo- ric end of the stomach, left lobe of the liver and lobus Spigelii, the hepa- tic vessels, CEeliac axis, semilunar ganglia, pan- creas, parts of the aorta, vena cava, vena azygos, and thoracic duct. Hypogastric Region. Convolutions of the small intestines, the blad- der in children, and in adults if distended, and the uterus during preg- nancy. S S 2 Left Hypochondriac. The splenic end of the stomach, the spleen and extremity of the pancreas, the splenic flexure of the colon, upper half of the left kidney, and left su- pra-renal capsule. Left Inguinal. Sigmoid flexure of the colon, ureter, and sper- matic vessels. Umbilical Region. The transverse colon, part of the great omen- tum and mesentery, trans- verse part of the duode- num, and some convolu- tions of the jejunum and ileum. Left Lumbar. Descending colon, lower part of left kidney, and some convolutions of the small intestines.