PALATE BONE. 57 The Vertical Plate (fig. 51) is thin, of an oblong form, and directed upwards and a little inwards. It 51.—Left Palate Bone. Internal View (enlarged). Spheyna I'id.atine, J'ara.nui'. McuKiUitrij Srocess HORIZONTAL presents two surfaces, an external and an internal, and four borders. 'Y:\xQinternal surface^VQ' sents at its lower part a broad shallow depression, which forms part of the inferior meatus of the nose. Immediately above this is a well marked horizontal ridge, the inferior turbi- nated crest, for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone; above this, a second broad shallow depression, which forms part of the middle meatus, surmounted above by a horizontal ridge, less prominent than the inferior, the superior tur- binated crest, for articula- lation with the middle turbinated bone. Above the superior turbinated crest is a narrow horizontal groove, which forms part of the superior meatus. The external surface is rough and irregular throughout the greater part of its extent, for articulation with the inner surface of the superior maxillary bone, its upper and back part being smooth where it enters into the formation of the zygomatic fossa; it is also smooth in front, where it covers the orifice of the antrum. Towards the back part of this surface is a deep groove, converted into a canal, the posterior palatine, by its articulation with the superior maxillary bone. It transmits the posterior palatine vessels and a large nerve. The anterior border is thin, irregular, and presents opposite the inferior turbinated crest, a pointed projecting lamina, the maxillary process, which is directed forwards, and closes in the lower and back part of the opening of the antrum, being received into a fissure that exists at the inferior part of this aperture. The posterior border (fig. 52) presents a deep groove, the edges of which are serrated for articulation with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. At the lower part of this border is seen a pyramidal process of bone, the pterygoid process or tuberosity of the palate, which is received into the angular interval between the two pterygoid plates of the sphenoid at their inferior extremity. This process presents at its back part three grooves, a median and two lateral ones. The former is smooth, and forms part of the pterygoid fossa, afibrding attachment to the Internal pterygoid muscle; whilst the lateral grooves are rough and uneven, for articulation with the anterior border of each pterygoid plate. The base of this process, continuous with the horizontal portion of the bone, presents the apertures of the accessory descending palatine canals; whilst its outer surface is rough, for articulation with the inner surface of the body of the superior maxillary bone. The superior border of the vertical plate presents two well marked processes, separated by an intervening notch or foramen. The anterior, or larger, is called the orbital process; the posterior, the sphenoidal. The Orbital Process, directed upwards and outwards, is placed on a higher level than the sphenoidal. It presents five surfaces,which enclose a hollow cellu- lar cavity, and is connected to the perpendicular plate by a narrow constricted neck. Of these five surfaces, three are articular, two non-articular, or free sur- faces. The three articular are the anterior or maxillary surface, which is directed forwards, outwards, and downwards, is of an oblong form, and rough for articulation