MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 244 the face to the same side. They also assist in supporting the head in the erect position. Fourth Layer. Sacral and Lumbar Regions. Cervical Region. Erector Spinas. Cervicalis ascendens. Dorsal Region. Transversalis colli. Sacro-lumbalis. Trachelo-mastoid. Musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem. Complexus. Longissimus dorsi. Biventer cervicis. Spinalis dorsi. Spinalis cervicis. Dissectio7i.—To expose the muscles of the fourth layer, the Serrati and vertebral aponeu- ^ rosis should be entirely removed. The Splenius may then be detached by separating its attachments to the spinous processes, and reflecting it outwards. 5 The Erector Spince (fig. l6l), and its prolongations in the dorsal and cervical '[^ regions, fill up the vertebral groove on each side of the spine. It is covered in ^ the lumbar region by the lumbar aponeurosis; in the dorsal region, by the Serrati ;^ muscles and the vertebral aponeurosis; and in the cervical region, by a layer of ^ cervical fascia continued beneath the Trapezius. This large muscular and tendinous mass varies in size and structure at different parts of the spine. In the sacral ^ region, the Erector spinse is narrow and pointed, and its origin chiefly tendinous cf^. in structure. In the lumbar region, it becomes enlarged, and forms a large fleshy mass. In the dorsal region, it subdivides into two parts, which gradually ~ diminish in size as they ascend to be inserted into the vertebrae and ribs, and are \ gradually lost in the cervical region, where a number of special muscles are superadded, which are continued upwards to the head, which they support upon the spine. ^ The Erector spinas arises from the sacro-iliac groove, and from the anterior \ surface of a very broad and thick tendon, which is attached, internally, to the spines of the sacrum, to the spinous processes of the lumbar and three lower dorsal vertebrae, and the supra-spinous ligament; externally, to the back part of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, and to the series of eminences on the posterior part of the sacrum, representing the transverse processes, where it blends with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The muscular fibres form a single large fleshy mass, 1^ bounded in front by the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and by the middle lamella of the fascia of the Transversalis muscle. Opposite the last rib, j ^ it divides into two parts, the Sacro-lumbalis, and the Longissimus dorsi. The Sacro-Lumbalis (Ilio-Costalis), the external and smaller portion of the . Erector spinae, is inserted, by six or seven flattened tendons, into the angles otcio of the six lower ribs. If this muscle is reflected outwards, it will be seen ^ to be reinforced by a series of muscular slips, which arise from the angles of \ the ribs; by means of these the Sacro-lumbalis is continued upwards, to ^ be connected with the upper ribs, and with the cervical portion of the spine, forming two additional muscles, the Musculus accessorius and the Cervicalis ^ ascendens. ^ The musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem arises by separate flattened tendons, from the angles of the six lower ribs; these become muscular, and are finally inserted, by separate tendons, into the angles of the six upper ribs. The cervicalis ascendens is the continuation of the Accessorius upwards into ^ the neck: it is situated on the inner side of the tendons of the Accessorius, , arising from the angles of the four or five upper ribs, and is inserted, by a series ^' I of slender tendons, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the ^"1^ fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. / . The Longissimus Dorsi the inner and larger portion of the Erector spinae, | arises, with the Sacro-lumbalis, from the common origin already mentioned. In i the lumbar region, where it is as yet blended with the Sacro-lumbalis, some of | the fibres are attached to the posterior surface of the transverse processes of the ! lumbar vertebras their whole length, to the tubercles at the back of the articular |