452 LYMPHATICS appearance. The thoracic duct not unfrequently divides in the middle of its course into two branches of unequal size which soon re-unite, or into several branches which form a plexiform interlacement. It occasionally bifurcates, at its upper part, into two branches, the left one terminating in the usual manner, the right one opening into the right subclavian vein, in connection with the right lymphatic duct. The thoracic duct has numerous valves throughout its whole course, but they are more numerous in the upper than in the lower part; at its termination it is provided with a pair of valves, the free borders of which are turned towards the vein, so as to prevent the regurgitation of venous blood into the duct. Branches. The thoracic duct at its commencement receives four or five large trunks from the abdominal lymphatic glands, and also the trunk of the lacteal vessels. Within the thorax, it is joined by the lymphatic vessels from the left half of the wall of the thoracic cavity, the lymphatics from the sternal and intercostal glands, those of the left lung, left side of the heart, trachea, and oeso- phagus; and just before its termination, receives the lymphatics of the left side of the head and neck, and left upper extremity. Structure. The thoracic duct is composed of three coats, which differ in some respects from those of the lymphatic vessels. The internal coat consists of a layer of epithelium, resting upon some striped lamellae, and an elastic fibrous coat, the fibres of which run in a longitudinal direction. The middle coat consists of a layer of connective tissue, beneath which are several laminae of muscular tissue, the fibres of which are disposed transversely, and intermixed with fine elastic fibres. The external coat is composed of areolar tissue, with elastic fibres and isolated fasciculi of muscular fibres. The Right Lymphatic Duct is a short trunk, about an inch in length, and a line or a line and a half in diameter, which receives the lymph from the right side of the head and neck, the right upper extremity, the right side of the thorax, the right lung and right side of the heart, and from the convex surface of the liver, and terminates at the angle of union of the right subclavian and right internal jugular veins. Its orifice is guarded by two semilunar valves, which prevent the entrance of blood from the veins. Lymphatics of the Head, Face, and Neck. The Superficial Lymphatic Glands of the Head (fig. 248) are of small size, few in number, and confined to its posterior region. They are the occipital, placed at the back of the head along the attachment of the Occipito-frontalis; and the posterior auricular, near the upper end of the Sterno-mastoid. These glands become considerably enlarged in cutaneous affections and other diseases of the scalp. In the face, the superficial lymphatic glands are more numerous: they are the parotid, some of which are superficial and others deeply placed in its substance; the zygomatic, situated under the zygoma; the buccal, on the surface of the Buccinator muscle; and the submaxillary, the largest, beneath the body of the lower jaw. The superficial lymphatics of the head are divided into an anterior and a posterior set, which follow the course of the temporal and occipital vessels. The temporal set accompany the temporal artery in front of the ear, to the parotid lymphatic glands, from which they proceed to the lymphatic glands of the neck. The occipital set follow the course of the occipital artery, descend to the occipital and posterior auricular lymphatic glands, and from thence join the cervical glands. The superficial lymphatics of the face are more numerous than those of the head. They commence over its entire surface, those from the frontal region accom- panying the frontal vessels; they then pass obliquely across the face, accompanying the facial vein, pass through the buccal glands on the surface of the Buccinator muscle, and join the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The latter receive the