ANTERIOR CRLTRAL. From the Anterior Division. Middle cutaneous. Internal cutaneous. Long saphenous. From the Posterior Division. Muscular. Articular. The middle cutaneous nerve pierces the fascia lata (occasionally the Sartorius also), about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and divides into two branches, which descend in immediate proximity along the fore part of the thigh, distributing numerous branches to the integument as low as the front of the knee, where it joins a branch of the internal saphenous nerve. Its outer branch communicates, above, with the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve; and the inner branch with the internal cutaneous nerve below. The Sartorius muscle is supplied by this or the following nerve. The internal cutaneous nerve passes obliquely across the upper part of the sheath of the femoral artery, and divides in front, or at the inner side, of that vessel, into two branches, anterior and internal. The anterior branch perforates the fascia lata at the lower third of the thigh, and divides into two branches, one of which supplies the integument as low down as the inner side of the knee; the other crosses the patella to the outer side of the joint, communicating in its course with the long saphenous nerve. A cuta- neous filament is occasionally given off from this nerve, which accompanies the long saphenous vein; and it sometimes communicates with the internal branch of the nerve. The inner branch descends along the posterior border of the Sartorius muscle to the knee, where it pierces the fascia lata, communicates with the long saphe- nous nerve, and gives off several cutaneous branches. The nerve then passes down the inner side of the leg, to the integument of which it is distributed. This nerve, beneath the fascia lata, joins in a plexiform network, by uniting with branches of the long saphenous and obturator nerves. When the communicating branch from the latter nerve is large, and continued to the integument of the leg, the inner branch of the internal cutaneous is small, and terminates at the plexus, occasionally giving off a few cutaneous filaments. This nerve, before subdividing, gives off a few filaments, which pierce the fascia lata, to supply the integument of the inner side of the thigh, accompanying the long saphenous vein. One of these filaments passes through the saphenous opening; a second becomes subcutaneous about the middle of the thigh; and a third pierces the fascia at its lower third. The long^ or internal saphenous nerve, is the largest of the cutaneous branches of the anterior crural nerve. It approaches the femoral artery where this vessel passes beneath the Sartorius, and lies on its outer side, beneath the aponeurotic covering, as far as the opening in the lower part of the Adductor magnus. It then quits the artery, and descends vertically along the inner side of the knee, beneath the Sartorius, pierces the deep fascia between the tendons of the Sartorius and Gracilis, and becomes subcutaneous. The nerve then passes along the inner side of the leg, accompanied by the internal saphenous vein, descends behind the internal border of the tibia, and, at the lower third of the leg, divides into two branches: one continues its course along the margin of the tibia, terminating at the inner ankle; the other passes in front of the ankle, and is distributed to the integument along the inner side of the foot, as far as the great toe. Branches. The long saphenous nerve, about the middle of the thigh, gives off a communicating branch, which joins the plexus formed by the obturator and internal cutaneous nerves. At the inner side o f the knee, it gives off a large branch (n. cutaneus patellce), which pierces the Sartorius and fascia lata, and is distributed to the integument in front of the patella. This nerve communicates above the knee with the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous; below the knee, with other branches of the long saphenous ; and, on the outer side of the joint, with branches of the middle and