ARCH OF AORTA. Relations. The ascending part of the arch is covered at i^s commencement by the trunk of the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendage, and, higher up, is separated from the sternum by the pericardium, some loose areolar tissue, and the remains of the thymus gland; behind, it rests upon the right pulmonary vessels and root of the right lung. On the right side, it is in relation with the superior vena cava and right auricle; on the left side, with the pulmonary artery. Plan op the Relations of the ascending part op the Arch. In front. Pulmonary artery. Eight auricular appendage. Pericardium. Remains of thymus gland. Right side. ( Arch of \ Left side. Superior cava. ( AstenSng ) Pulmonary artery. Right auricle. Behind. Right pulmonary vessels. Root of right lung. Transverse Part op the Arch. The second or transverse portion of the arch commences at the upper border of the second costo-sternal articulation of the right side in front, and passes from right to left, and from before backwards, to the left side of the second dorsal vertebra behind. Its upper border is usually about an inch below the upper margin of the sternum. Relations. Its anterior surface is covered by the left pleura and lung, and crossed towards the left side by the left pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, and cardiac branches of the sympathetic. Its posterior surface lies on the trachea, just above its bifurcation, on the great cardiac plexus, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Its upper border is in relation with the left innominate vein; and from its upper part are given off the innominate, left carotid, and left subclavian arteries. By its lower border, with the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and the remains of the ductus arteriosus, which is connected with the left division of that vessel; the left recurrent laryngeal nerve winds r.ound it from before backwards, whilst the left bronchus passes below it. Plan op the Relations of the Transverse Part of the Arch. Above. Left innominate vein. Arteria innominata. Left carotid. Left subclavian. In front. Left pleura and lung. Left pneumogastric nerve. Left phrenic nerve. Cardiac nerves. Behind. Trachea. Cardiac plexus. (Esophagus. Thoracic duct. Left recurrent nerve. Below. Bifurcation of pulmonary artery. Remains of ductus arteriosus. Left recurrent nerve. Left bronchus.