MEMBRANES OF THE CORD. 469 mater being continued in the form of a tubular prolongation on them as they issue from these apertures. These prolongations of the dura mater are short in the upper part of the spine, but become gradually longer below, forming a number of tubes of fibrous membrane, which enclose the sacral nerves, and are contained in the spinal canal. The chief peculiarities of the dura mater of the cord, as compared with that investing the brain, are the following: The dura mater of the cord is not adherent to the rn. a • ^ n a a bones of the spinal canal, which have an independent j^S^m^^^^ '''' periosteum. It does not send partitions into the fissures of the Icord, as in the brain. Its fibrous laminae do not separate, to form venous sinuses, as in the brain. Structure. The dura mater consists of white fibrous tissue, arranged in bands which intersect one another. It is sparingly supplied with vessels; and no nerves have as yet been traced into it. The AracJmoid is exposed by slitting up the dura mater, and reflecting this membrane on either side (fig. 253). It is a thin, delicate, serous membrane, which invests the outer surface of the cord, and is then reflected upon the inner surface of the dura mater, to which it is intimately adherent. That portion which surrounds the cord, is called the vis- ceral layer of the arachnoid; and that which lines the inner surface of the dura mater, the parietal layerthe interval between the two, is called the cavity of the arachnoid. The visceral layer forms a loose sheath around the cord, so as to leave a con- siderable interval between the two, which is called the suh-arachnoidean space. This space is largest at the lower part of the spinal canal, and encloses the mass of nerves which form the cauda equina. It contains an abundant serous secretion, the cerebro-spinal fluid, and usually communicates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain^ by means of an opening in the fibrous layer of the inferior boundary of the fourth ventricle. This secretion is suflicient in amount to expand the arachnoid mem- brane, so as to completely fill up the whole of the space included in the dura mater. The sub-arachnoidean space is crossed, at the back part of the cord, by numerous fibrous bands, which stretch from the arachnoid to the pia mater, especially in the cervical region, and is partially sub-divided by a longitudinal membranous partition, which serves to connect the arachnoid with the pia mater, opposite the posterior median fissure. This partition is incomplete, and cribriform in structure, consisting of bundles of . white fibrous tissue, interlacing with each other. The visceral layer of the arachnoid surrounds the spinal nerves where they arise from the cord, and encloses 254.—Transverse Section of the Spinal Cord and its Membranes. Dura. - f/TatcT J—IbrUtal Laye. * Kolliker denies that the inner surface of the dura mater is covered by an outer layer of the arachuoid, and states, that nothing is found here except an epithelial layer, no trace of a special membrane existing.