MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 262 Fascia of the Thorax. 68.- S.DLsseetLon cf SHOULDER & ARM The superficial fascia of the thoracic region is a loose cellulo-fibrous layer, continuous with the superficial fascia of the neck and upper extremity above, and of the abdomen below; opposite the mamma, it subdivides into two layers, one of -Dissection of Upper Extremity. Z^^l^\ T''" 1 ^"'"''^ ^^'^ ""^^^^ behmd this gland; and from both of these layers numerous septa pass into its substance, supporting its various lobes: from the anterior layer, fibrous processes pass for- ward to the integument and nipple, enclosing in their areolae masses of fat. These processes were called, by Sir A. Cooper, the ligamenta suspensoria, from the support they afford to the gland in this situation. On removing the superficial fascia, the deep fascia of the thoracic region is exposed: it is a thin apo- .BEisiD^ELBOw ncurotic lamina, covering the sur- face of the great Pectoral muscle, and sending numerous prolongations between its fasciculi: it is attached, in the middle line, to the front of the sternum; and, above, to the cla- vicle : it is very thin over the upper part of the muscle, somewhat thicker in the interval between the Pecto- ralis major and Latissimus dorsi, where it closes in the axillary space, and divides at the margin of the latter muscle into two layers, one of which passes in front, and the other behind it; these proceed as far as the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae, to which they are attached. At the lower part of the thoracic region, this fascia is well developed, and is con- tinuous with the fibrous sheath of the Recti muscles. FORE-ARM ^> PALM ^HAWO Anterior Thoracic Region. Pectoralis Major. Pectoralis Minor. Subclavius. The Pectoralis Major (fig. 169) is a broad, thick, triangular muscle, situated at the upper and fore part of the chest, in front of the axilla. It arises from the sternal half of the clavicle, its anterior surface; from one half the breadth of the front of the sternum, as low down as the attachment of the cartilage of the sixth or seventh rib; its origin consisting of aponeurotic fibres, which intersect with those of the opposite muscle : it also arises from the cartilages of all the true ribs, and from the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres from this extensive origin converge towards its insertion, giving to the muscle a radiated appearance. Those fibres which arise from the clavicle, pass obliquely downwards and outwards, and are usually separated from the rest by a cellular interval; those from the lower part of the sternum and the cartilages of the lower true ribs, pass upwards and outwards; whilst the middle fibres pass horizontally. As these three sets of fibres converge, they are so disposed that the upper overlap