LYMPHATICS 458 the deep blood-vessels. In the leg, they consist of three sets, the anterior tibial, peroneal, and posterior tibial, which accompany the corresponding vessels, being two or three in number to each; they ascend with the blood-vessels, and enter the lymphatic glands in the popliteal space; the efferent vessels from these glands accompany the femoral vein, and join the deep inguinal glands; from these, the vessels pass beneath Poupart's ligament, and communicate with the chain of glands surrounding the external iliac vessels. The deep lymphatics of the gluteal and ischiatic regions follow the course of the blood-vessels, and join the gluteal and ischiatic glands at the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Lymphatics of the Pelvis and Abdomen. The deep lymphatic glands in the pelvis are, the external iliac, the internal iliac, and the sacral. Those of the abdomen are the lumbar glands. The external iliac glands form an uninterrupted chain round the external iliac vessels, three being placed round the commencement of the vessel just behind the crural arch. They communicate below with the femoral lymphatics, and above with the lumbar glands. The internal iliac glands surround the internal iliac vessels; they receive the lymphatics corresponding to the branches of the internal iliac artery, and commu- nicate with the lumbar glands. The sacral glands occupy the sides of the anterior surface of the sacrum, some being situated in the meso-rectal fold. These and the internal iliac glands become greatly enlarged in malignant disease of the bladder, rectum, or uterus. The lumbar glands are very numerous; they are situated on the front of the lumbar vertebriE, surrounding the common iliac vessels, the aorta, and vena cava; they receive the lymphatic vessels from the lower extremities and pelvis, as well as from the testes and some of the abdominal viscera; the efferent vessels from these glands unite into a few large trunks, which, with the lacteals, form the com- mencement of the thoracic duct. In some cases of malignant disease, these glands become enormously enlarged, completely surrounding the aorta and vena cava, and occasionally greatly contracting the calibre of these vessels. In all cases of malignant disease of the testis, and in malignant disease of the lower limb, before any operation is attempted, careful examination of the abdomen should be made, in order to ascertain if any enlargement exists; and if any should be detected, all operative measures are fruitless. The lymphatics of the pelvis and abdomen may be divided into two sets, superficial and deep. The superficial lymphatics of the walls of the abdomen and pelvis follow the course of the superficial blood-vessels. Those derived from the integument of the lower part of the abdomen below the umbilicus, follow the course of the superficial epigastric vessels, and converge to the superior group of the superficial inguinal glands; the deep set accompany the deep epigastric vessels, and communicate with the external iliac glands. The superficial lymphatics from the sides and lumbar part of the abdominal wall wind round the crest of the ilium, accompanying the superficial circumflex iliac vessels, to join the superior group of the superficial inguinal glands; the greater number, however, accompany the ilio-lumbar and lumbar vessels backwards, to join the lumbar glands. The superficial lymphatics of the gluteal region turn horizontally round the outer side of the nates, and join the superficial inguinal glands. The superficial lymphatics of the scrotum and perinmim follow the course of the external pudic vessels, and terminate in the superficial inguinal glands. The superficial lymphatics of the penis occupy the sides and dorsum of the organ, the latter receiving the lymphatics from the skin covering the glans penis; they all converge to the upper chain of the superficial inguinal glands. The deep, lymphatic vessels of the penis follow the course of the internal pudic vessels, and join the internal iliac glands.