ARTERIES. 382 carpi ulnaris and Flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. It is accompanied by two veins, which lie one on each side of the vessel; the ulnar nerve lies on its inner side for the lower two-thirds of its extent, and a small branch from it descends on the lower part of the vessel to the palm of the hand. Plan of Relations of the Ulnar Artery in the Fore-arm. In front. Superficial flexor muscles.) jTr^r^^v. v^if Median nerve. | Upper half. Superficial and deep fasciae. Lower half. Inner side. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Ulnar nerve (lower two-thirds.) Outer side. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Behind. Brachialis anticus. Flexor profundus digitorum. At the wrist, the ulnar artery is covered by the integument and fascia, and lies upon the anterior annular ligament. On its inner side is the pisiform bone. The ulnar nerve lies at the inner side, and somewhat behind the artery. In the palm of the hand, the continuation of the ulnar artery is called the superficial palmar arch; it passes obliquely outwards to the interspace between the ball of the thumb and the index finger, where it anastomoses with the super- ficialis volae, and a branch from the radiaiis indicis, thus completing the super- ficial palmar arch. The convexity of this arch is directed towards the fingers, its concavity towards the muscles of the thumb. The superficial palmar arch is covered by the Palmaris brevis, the palmar fascia, and integument; and lies upon the annular ligament, the muscles of the little finger, the tendons of the superficial flexor, and the divisions of the median and ulnar nerves, the latter accompanying the artery a short part of its course. Relations of the Superficial Palmar Arch. In front. Integument. Palmaris brevis. Palmar fascia. Behind. Annular ligament. Origin of muscles of little finger. Superficial flexor tendons. Divisions of median and ulnar nerves. Peculiarities. The ulnar artery was found to vary in its origin nearly in the proportion of one in thirteen cases, in one case arising lower than usual, about two or three inches below the elbow, and in all the other cases much higher, the brachial being a more frequent source of origin than the axillary. Variations in the position of this vessel are more frequent than in the radial. When its origin is normal, the course of the vessel is rarely changed. When it arises high up, its position in the fore-arm is almost invariably superficial to the flexor muscles, lying commonly beneath the fascia, more rarely between the fascia and integument. In a few cases, its position was subcutaneous in the upper part of the fore-arm, sub-aponeu- rotic in the lower part. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to this vessel is required in cases of wound of the artery, or of its branches, or in consequence of aneurism. In the upper half of the fore-arm, the artery is deeply seated beneath the superficial flexor muscles, and their division would be requisite in a case of recent wound of the artery in this situation, in order to secure it, but under no other circumstances. In the middle and lower third of the fore-arm, this vessel may be easily secured by making an incision on the radial side of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; the deep fascia being divided, and the Flexor carpi ulnaris and its companion muscle, the Flexor sublimis, being separated from each other, the vessel will be exposed, accompanied by its vense comites, the ulnar nerve lying on its inner side. The veins being separated from the artery, the ligature should be passed from the ulnar to the radial side, taking care to avoid the ulnar nerve.