ARTICULATIONS. 154 Ginglymus^ Hinge-joint {yiyyXvfio'?, a hi?ige). In tliis form of joint, the articular surfaces are moulded to each other in such a manner, as to permit motion onlj in two directions, forwards and backwards, the extent of motion at the same time being considerable. The articular surfaces are connected together by strong lateral ligaments, which form their chief bond of union. The most perfect forms of ginglymi are the elbow and ankle; the knee is less perfect, as it allows a slight degree of rotation in certain positions of the limb: there are also the metatarso-phalangeal and phalangeal joints in the lower extremity, jind the metacarpo-phalangeal and phalangeal joints in the upper extremity. DiartJirosis rotatorius (Lateral Ginglymus). Where the movement is limited to rotation, the joint is formed by a pivot-like process turning within a ring, or the ring on the pivot, the ring being formed partly of bone, partly of ligament. In the articulation of the odontoid process of the axis with the atlas, the ring is formed in front by the anterior arch of the atlas; behind, by the transverse liga- ment; here the ring rotates round the odontoid process. In the superior radio- ulnar articulation, the ring is formed partly by the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; in the rest of its extent, by the orbicular ligament; here, the head of the radius rotates within the ring. Subjoined, in a tabular form, are the names, distinctive characters, and examples of the different kinds of articulations. Dentata, having tooth-like processes. Inter-parietal su- ture. Serrata, having serrated edges, like the teeth of a saw. Inter-frontal su- ture. Limbosa, having bevelled margins, and dentated pro- cesses. Fronto - parietal suture. Synarthrosis, or immoveable joint. Surfaces separated by fibrous membrane, no intervening syno- vial cavity, and im- moveably connected with each other. Example: bones of cranium and face (except lower jaw). Sutura vera (true) articulate by indented bor- ders. Sutura. Arti culation by pro- I cesses and indent- j ations interlocked together. Sutura notha (false) articulate by rough surfaces. Squamosa, formed by thin bevelled mar- gins overlapping each other. Tempore - parietal suture. Harmonia, formed by the apposition of contiguous rough surfaces. Inter-maxillary su- ture. Schindylesis. Articulation formed by the reception of a thin plate of bone into a fissure of another. Rostrum of sphenoid with vomer. Gomphosis. An articulation formed by the insertion of a conical process into a socket. Tooth in socket.