CARPUS. 109 sisting within of cancellous tissue enclosed in a layer of compact bone. Each bone is also developed from a single centre of ossification. Bones of the Upper Row. (Figs. 94, 95.) The Scaphoid is the largest bone of the first row. It has received its name j from its fancied resemblance to a boat, being broad at one end, and narrowed like a prow at the opposite. It is situated at the upper and outer part of the carpus, its direction being from above downwards, outwards, and forwards. Its superior surface is convex, smooth, of triangular shape, and articulates with the lower end of the radius. Its inferior surface, directed downwards, outwards, and back- wards, is smooth, convex, also triangular, and divided by a slight ridge into two I parts, the external of which articulates with the trapezium, the inner with the trapezoid. Its posterior or dorsal surface presents a narrow, rough groove, I which runs the entire breadth of the bone, and serves for the attachment of liga- I ments. The anterior or palmar surface is concave above, and elevated at its ! lower and outer part into a prominent rounded tubercle, which projects forwards I from the front of the carpus, and gives attachment to the anterior annular liga- ment of the wrist. The external surface is rough and narrow, and gives attach- ment to the external lateral ligament of the wrist. The internal surface presents two articular facets: of these, the superior or smaller one is flattened, of semi- lunar form, and articulates with the semi-lunar; the inferior or larger is concave, forming, with the semi-lunar bone, a concavity for the head of the os magnum. To ascertain to which hand this bone belongs, hold the convex radial articular surface upwards, and the dorsal surface backwards; the prominent tubercle will I be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With five bones; the radius above, trapezium and trapezoid below, OS magnum and semi-lunar internally. The Semi-lunar bone may be distinguished by its deep concavity and crescentic outline. It is situated in the centre of the upper range of the carpus, between the scaphoid and cuneiform. Its superior surface, convex, smooth, and quadri- lateral in form, articulates with the radius. Its iiiferior surface is deeply concave, and of greater extent from before backwards, than transversely; it articulates with the head of the os magnum, and by a long narrow facet (separated by a ridge from the general surface) with the unciform bone. Its anterior or palmar and posterior or dorsal surfaces are rough, for the attachment of ligaments, the former being the broader, and of somewhat rounded form. The external surface presents a narrow, flattened, semi-lunar facet, for articulation with the scaphoid. The internal surface is marked by a smooth, quadrilateral facet, for articulation with the cuneiform. To ascertain to which hand this bone belongs, hold it with the dorsal surface upwards, and the convex articular surface backwards; the quadrilateral articular facet will then point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With five bones: the radius above, os magnum and unciform below, scaphoid and cuneiform on either side. The Cuneiform {VOs Pyramidal), may be distinguished by its pyramidal shape, and from having an oval-shaped, isolated facet, for articulation with the pisiform bone. It is situated at the upper and inner side of the carpus. The superior surface presents an internal, rough, non-articular portion; and an external or articular portion, which is convex, smooth, and separated from the lower end of the ulna by the inter-articular fibro-cartilage of the wrist. The inferior surface, directed outwards, is concave, sinuously curved, and smooth, for articu- lation with the unciform. Its posterior or dorsal surface is rough, for the attach- ment of ligaments. Its anterior or palmar surface presents, at its inner side, an oval-shaped facet, for articulation with the pisiform; and is rough externally, for ligamentous attachment. Its external surface, the base of the pyramid, is marked by a flat, quadrilateral, smooth facet, for articulation with the semi-lunar. The internal surface, the summit of the pyramid, is pointed and roughened, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the wrist.