237 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE TRUNK. The Muscles of the Trunk may be subdivided into four groups: — 1. Muscles of the Back. 3. Muscles of the Thorax. 4. Muscles of the Perinasum. 2. Muscles of the Abdomen. The Muscles of the Back are very numerous, and may be subdivided into five layers: — First Later. Trapezius. Latissimus dorsi. Second Layer. Levator anguli scapulae. Rhomboideus minor. Rhomboideus major. Third Layer. Serratus posticus superior. Serratus posticus inferior. Splenius capitis. Splenius colli. Fourth Layer. Sacral and lumbar-regions. Erector Spinse. Dorsal region. Sacro-lumbalis. Musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem. Longissimus dorsi. Spinalis dorsi. Cervical region. -^Cervicalis ascendens. Transversalis colli. Trachelo-mastoid. Complexus. Biventer cervicis. Spinalis cervicis. Fifth Later. Semi-spinalis dorsi. Semi-spinalis colli. Multifidus spinse. Rotatores spinae. Supra-spinales. Inter-spinales. Extensor coccygis. Inter-transversales. Rectus posticus major. Rectus posticus minor. Obliquus superior. Obliquus inferior. First Layer. Trapezius. Latissimus Dorsi. (fig, 159). The body should be placed in the prone position, with the arms extended over the sides of the table, and the chest and abdomen supported by several blocks, so as to render the muscles tense. An incision should then be made along the middle line of the back, from the occipital protuberance to the coccyx. From the upper end of this, a transverse incision should extend to the mastoid process ; and from the lower end, a third incision should be made along the crest of the ilium to about its middle. This large intervening space, for convenience of dissection, should be subdivided b}' a fourth incision, extending obliquely from the spinous process of the last dorsal vertebra, upwards and outwards, to the acromion process. This incision corresponds with the lower border of the Trapezius muscle. The flaps of integument should then be removed in the direction shewn in the figure in the next page. The Trapezius is a broad, flat, triangular muscle, placed immediately beneath the skin, and covering the upper and back part of the neck and shoulders. It arises from the inner third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone; from the ligamentum nuchas, the spinous process of the seventh cervical, and those of all the dorsal vertebrae; and from the corresponding portion of the supra-spinous ligament. From this origin, the superior fibres proceed downwards and outwards; the inferior ones, upwards and outwards; and the middle fibres, horizontally; and are inserted, the superior ones, into the outer third of the posterior border of the clavicle; the