FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 724 Mammary Glands. The mammcB, or breasts, are accessory glands of the generative system, which secrete the milk. They exist in the male as well as in the female; but in the former only in a rudimentary state, unless their growth is excited by peculiar circumstances. They are two large hemispherical eminences, situated towards the lateral aspect of the pectoral region, corresponding to the interval between the third and sixth or seventh ribs, and extending from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Their weight and dimensions differ at different periods of life, and in different individuals. Before puberty they are of small size, but enlarge as the generative organs become more completely developed. They increase during pregnancy, and especially after delivery, and become atrophied in old age. The left mamma is generally a little larger than the right. Their base is nearly circular, flattened or slightly concave, and having their long diameter directed upwards and outwards towards the axilla; they are separated from the Pectoral muscles by a thin layer of superficial fascia. The outer surface of the mamma is convex, and presents, just below the centre, a small conical prominence, the nipple (mammiila). The surface of the nipple is dark-coloured, and surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In the virgin, the areola is of a delicate rosy hue; about the second month of impregnation, it enlarges, and acquires a darker tinge, which increases as pregnancy advances, becoming, in some cases, a dark brown or even black colour. This colour diminishes as soon as lactation is over, but is never entirely lost through life. These changes in the colour of the areola are of extreme importance in forming a conclusion in a case of suspected pregnancy. The 7iipple is a cylindrical or conical eminence, capable of undergoing a sort of erection from mechanical excitement. It is of a pink or brownish hue, its surface wrinkled and provided with papillse, and its summit perforated by numerous Orifices, the apertures of the lactiferous ducts. Near the base of the nipple, and upon the surface of the areola are numerous sebaceous glands, which become much enlarged during lactation, and present the appearance of small tubercles beneath the skin. These glands secrete a peculiar fatty substance, which serves as a pro- tection to the integument of the nipple in the act of sucking. The nipple consists of numerous vessels, which form a kind of erectile tissue, intermixed with plain muscular fibres. Structure. The mamma consists of gland tissue; of fibrous .tissue, connecting its lobes; and of fatty tissue in the intervals between the lobes. The mammary gland, free from cellular tissue and fat, is of a pale reddish colour, firm in texture, circular in form, flattened from before backwards, thicker in the centre than at the circumference, and presenting several inequalities on its surface, especially in front. It consists of numerous lobes, and these are composed of lobules, connected together by areolar tissue, blood-vessels, and ducts. The smallest lobules consist of a cluster of rounded vesicles, which open into the smallest branches of the lactiferous ducts; these ducts uniting, form larger ducts, which terminate in a single canal, corresponding with one of the chief subdivisions of the gland. The number of excretory ducts varies from fifteen to twenty: they are termed the tubuli lactiferi, galactophori. They converge towards the areola, beneath which they form dilatations, or ampullas, which serve as reservoirs for the milk, and, at the base of the nipple, become contracted, and pursue a straight course to its summit, perforating it by separate orifices considerably narrower than the ducts themselves. The ducts are composed of areolar tissue, with longitudinal and transverse elastic fibres, and longitudinal muscular fibres: their mucous lining is continuous, at the point of the nipple, with the integument: its epithelial lining ia of the tessellated or scaly variety. The fibrous tissue invests the entire surface of the breast, and sends down septa between its lobes, connecting them together.