MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 234 with it into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage, some of its fibres being lost on the side of the pharynx, and others passing across the middle line pos- teriorly, to decussate with the muscle of the opposite side. Relations. In the soft palate, its anterior and posterior surfaces are covered by mucous membrane, from which it is separated by a layer of palatine glands. By its superior border, it is in relation with the Levator palati. Where it forms the posterior pillar of the fauces, it is covered by mucous membrane, excepting on its outer surface. In the pharynx, it lies between the mucous membrane and the constrictor muscles. Nerves. The Tensor palati is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion; the Levator palati, and Azygos uvulae, by the facial, through the connection of its trunk with the Vidian, by the petrosal nerves; the other muscles, by the palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. Actions. During the Jirst act of deglutition, the morsel of food is driven back into the fauces by the pressure of the tongue against the hard palate; the base of the tongue being, at the same time, retracted, and the larynx raised with the pharynx, and carried forwards under it; the epiglottis is pressed over the superior aperture of the larynx, and the morsel glides past it. This constitutes the second act of deglutition; then the Palato-glossi muscles, the constrictors of the fauces, contract behind it; the soft palate is slightly raised (by the Levator palati), and made tense (by the Tensor palati); and the Palato-pharyngaei contract, and come nearly together, the uvula filling up the slight interval between them. By these means, the food is prevented passing into the upper part of the pharynx or the posterior nares; at the same time, the latter muscles form an inclined plane, directed obliquely downwards and backwards, along which the morsel descends into the lower part of the pharynx. Surgical Anatomy. The muscles of the soft palate should be carefully dissected, the rela- tions they bear to the surrounding parts especially examined, and their action attentively studied upon the dead subject, as the surgeon is required to divide one or more of these muscles in the operation of staphyloraphy. Mr. Ferguson has shewn, that in the congenital deficiency, called cleft palate, the edges of the fissure are forcibly separated by the action of the Levatores palati and Palato-pharyngsei muscles, producing very considerable im- pediment to the healing process after the performance of the operation for uniting their margins by adhesion ; he has, consequently, recommended the division of these muscles as one of the most important steps in the operation : by these means, the flaps are relaxed, lie perfectly loose and pendulous, and are easily brought and retained in apposition. The Palato-pharyngsei may be divided by cutting across the posterior pillar of the soft palate, just below the tonsil, with a pair of blunt-pointed curved scissors; and the anterior pillar may be divided also. To divide the Levator palati, the plan recommended by Mr. Pollock is to be greatly preferred. The flap being put upon the stretch, a double-edged knife is passed through the soft palate, just on the inner side of the hamular process, and above the line of the Levator palati. The handle being now alternately raised and depressed, a sweeping cut is made along the posterior surface of the soft palate, and the knife with- drawn, leaving only a small opening in the mucous membrane on the anterior surface. If this operation is performed on the dead body, and the parts afterwards dissected, the Levator palati will be found completely divided. 7. Vertebral Region (Anterior). Rectus Capitis Anticus Major. Rectus Lateralis. Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor. Longus Colli. The Rectus Capitis Anticus Major (fig. 158), broad and thick above, narrow below, appears like a continuation upwards of the Scalenus anticus. It arises by four tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrse, and ascends, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side, to be inserted into the basilar process of the occi- | pital bone. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the pharynx, the sympathetic nerve, and the sheath enclosing the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumo-