ARTICULATIONS. 178 occupies the upper part of the articulation. More rarely, it completely separates the joint into two cavities. There are two Synovial Membranes where a complete inter-articular cartilage exists; more frequently, there is only one synovial membrane. Actions. The movements of this articulation are of tAvo kinds. I. A gliding motion of the articular end of the clavicle on the acromion. 2. Rotation of the scapula forwards and backwards upon the clavicle, the extent of this rotation being limited by the two portions of the coraco-clavicular ligament. 3. Proper Ligaments of the Scapula. The proper ligaments of the scapula are, the Coraco-acromial. Transverse. The Coraco-acromial Ligament is a broad, thin, flat band, of a triangular shape, extended transversely above the upper part of the shoulder-joint, between the coracoid and acromion processes. It is attached, by its apex, to the summit of the acromion just in front of the articular surface for the clavicle; and by its broad base, to the whole length of the outer border of the coracoid process. Its posterior fibres are directed obliquely backwards and outwards, its anterior fibres transversely. This ligament completes the vault formed by the coracoid and acro- mion processes for the protection of the head of the humerus. It is in relation, above, with the clavicle and under surface of the Deltoid; below, with the tendon of the Supra-spinatus muscle, a bursa being interposed. Its anterior border is continuous with a dense cellular lamina that passes beneath the Deltoid upon the tendons of the Supra- and Infra-spinati muscles. The Transverse or Coracoid Ligament converts the supra-scapular notch into a foramen. It is a thin and flat fasciculus, narrower at the middle than at the extremities, attached, by one end, to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other, to the inner extremity of the scapular notch. The supra-scapular nerve passes through the foramen; its accompanying vessels above it. 4. Shoulder-Joint. The Shoulder is an enarthrodial or ball and socket joint. The bones enterjng into its formation, are the large globular head of the humerus, which is received into the shallow glenoid cavity of the scapula, an arrangement which permits of very considerable movement, whilst the joint itself is protected against displace- ment by the strong ligaments and tendons which surround it, and above by an arched vault, formed by the under surface of the coracoid and acromion processes, and the coraco-acromial ligament. The articular surfaces are covered by a layer of cartilage: that on the head of the humerus is thicker at the centre than at the circumference, the reverse being observed in the glenoid cavity. Its liga- ments are, the Capsular. Coraco-humeral. Glenoid. The Capsiilar Ligament completely encircles the articulation; being attached, above, to the circumference of the glenoid cavity beyond the glenoid ligament; below, to the anatomical neck of the humerus, approaching nearer to the articular cartilage above, than in the rest of its extent. It is thicker above than below, remarkably loose and lax, and much larger and longer than is necessary to keep the bones in contact, allowing them to be separated from each other more than an inch, an evident provision for that extreme freedom of movement which is peculiar to this articulation. Its external surface is strengthened, above, by the Supra- spinatus; above and internally, by the coraco-humeral ligament; below, by the long head of the Triceps; externally, by the tendons of the Infra-spinatus and