45 ETHMOID BONE. The Ethmoid Bone. The Ethmoid (r)6/j,o<^, a sieve), is an exceedingly light spongy bone, of a cubical form, situated at the anterior part of the base of the cranium, between the two orbits, at the root of the nose, 38.—Ethmoid Bone. Outer Surface of Right Lateral Mass and contributing to form each of these cavities. It consists of three parts: a horizontal plate, which forms part of the base of the cranium; a per- pendicular plate, which forms part of the septum nasi; and two lateral masses of cells. The Horizontal or Cribri- form Plate (fig. 38) forms part of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull, and is re- ceived into the ethmoid notch of the frontal bone between the two orbital plates. Pro- jecting upwards from the middle line of this plate, is a thick smooth triangular pro- cess of bone, the crista galli, so called from its resemblance to a cock's comb. Its base joins the cribriform plate. Its posterior border, long, thin, and slightly curved, serves for the attachment of the falx cerebri. Its anterior border, short and thick, articulates with the frontal bone, and presents two small projecting alee, which are received into corresponding depressions in the frontal, completing the foramen coecum behind. Its sides are smooth, and sometimes bulging, when it is found to enclose a small sinus. On each side of the crista galli, the cribri- form plate is narrow, and deeply grooved, to support the bulb of the olfactory nerves, and perforated by foramina for the passage of its filaments. These fora- mina are arranged in three rows; the innermost, which are the largest and least numerous, are lost in grooves on the upper part of the septum; the foramina of the outer row are continued on to the surface of the upper spongy bone. The fora- mina of the middle row are the smallest; they perforate the bone, and transmit nerves to the roof of the nose. At the front part of the cribriform plate, on each side of the crista galli, is a small fissure, which transmits the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve; and at its posterior part a triangular notch, which receives the ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid. The Perpendicular Plate (fig. 39) is a thin flattened lamella of bone, which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and assists in forming the septum of the nose. It is much thinner in the middle, than at the cir- cumference, and is ge- nerally deflected a little to one side. Its an- terior border articulates with the frontal spine and crest of the nasal (enlarged). tcii/i I nfjiwrbi nated b. 39,—Perpendicular Plate of Ethmoid (enlarged). Shewn by removing the right Lateral Mass.