FEMUR. 129 externus and the Adductor magnus are attached two muscles, viz., the Gluteus maximus above, and the short head of the Biceps below. Between the Adductor magnus and the Vastus internus, four muscles are attached: the Iliacus and Pectineus above (the latter to the middle division of the upper bifurcation); below these, the Adductor brevis and Adductor longus. The linea aspera is perforated a little below its centre by the nutritious canal, which is directed obliquely from below upwards. The two lateral borders of the femur are only very slightly marked, the outer one extending from the anterior inferior angle of the great trochanter to the an- terior extremity of the external condyle; the inner one passes from the spiral line, at a point opposite the trochanter minor, to the anterior extremity of the internal condyle. The internal border marks the limit of attachment of the Cruraeus muscle internally. The anterior surface includes that por- tion of the shaft which is situated between the two lateral borders. It is smooth, convex, broader above and below than in the centre, slightly twisted, so that its upper part is directed forwards and a little outwards, its lower part forwards and a little inwards. The upper three-fourths of this surface serve for the attachment of the Crurgeus; the lower fourth is separated from this muscle by the intervention of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, and affords attachment to the Sub-crurfeus to a small extent. The external surface includes the portion of bone between the external border and the outer lip of the linea aspera; it is continuous, above, with the outer surface of the great trochanter; below, with the outer surface of the ex- ternal condyle: to its upper three-fourths is attached the outer portion of the Cru- raeus muscle. The internal surface in- cludes the portion of bone between the internal border and the inner lip of the linea aspera; it is continuous, above, with the lower border of the neck; below, with the inner side of the internal condyle: it is covered by the Vastus internus muscle. The Lower Extremity^ larger than the upper, is of a cuboid form, flattened from before backwards, and divided by an interval presenting a smooth depression in front, and a notch of considerable size 104.—Right Femur. Posterior Surface. OBTUBATOR EXTERNUS (ivoove- for temtlun POPl-ITEUS