MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 266 Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus Magnus. The Serratus Magnus is a broad, thin, and irregularly quadrilateral muscle, situated at the upper part and side of the chest. It arises by nine fleshy digita- tions from the outer surface and upper border of the eight upper ribs (the second rib having two), and from the aponeurosis covering the upper intercostal spaces, and is inserted into the whole length of the inner margin of the posterior border of the scapula. This muscle has been divided into three portions, a superior, middle, and inferior, on account of the difference in the direction, and in the extent of attachment of each part. The upper portion, separated from the rest by a cellular interval, is a narrow, but thick fasciculus, which arises by two digitations from the first and second ribs, and from the aponeurotic arch between them ; its fibres proceed upwards, outwards and backwards, to be inserted into the triangular smooth surface on the inner side of the superior angle of the scapula. The middle portion of the muscle arises by three digitations from the second, third and fourth ribs, it forms a thin and broad muscular layer, which proceeds horizontally back- wards, to be inserted into the posterior border of the scapula, between the superior and inferior angles. The lower portion arises from the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth ribs, by four digitations, in the intervals between which are received cor- responding processes of the External oblique ; the fibres pass upwards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted into the inner surface of the inferior angle of the scapula, by an attachment partly muscular, partly tendinous. Relations. This muscle is covered, in front, by the Pectoral muscles; behind, by the Subscapularis; above, by the axillary vessels and nerves. Its deep surface rests upon the ribs and Intercostal muscles. Nerves. The Serratus magnus is supplied by the posterior thoracic nerve. Actions. The Serratus magnus is the most important external inspiratory muscle. When the shoulders are fixed, it elevates the ribs, and so dilates the cavity of the chest, assisting the Pectoral and Subclavius muscles. This muscle, especially its middle and lower segments, draws the base and inferior angle of the scapula forwards, and so raises the point of the shoulder by causing a rota- tion of the bone on the side of the chest; assisting the Trapezius muscle in supporting weights upon the shoulder, the thorax being at the same time fixed by preventing the escape of the included air. Dissection. After completing the dissection of the axilla, if the muscles of the back have been dissected, the upper extremity should be separated from the trunk. Saw through the clavicle at its centre, and then cut through the muscles which connect the scapula and arm with the trunk, viz., the Pectoralis minor, in front, Serratus magnus, at the side, and behind, the Levator anguli scapulae, the Ehomboids, Trapezius, and Latissimus dorsi. These muscles should be cleaned and traced to their respective insertions. An incision should then be made through the integument, commencing at the outer third of the clavicle, and extending along the margin of this bone, the acromion process, and spine of the scapula; the integument should be dissected from above downwards and outwards, when the fascia covering the Deltoid is exposed. The superficial fascia of the upper extremity, is a thin cellulo-fibrous lamina, containing between its layers the superficial veins and lymphatics, and the cuta- neous nerves. It is most distinct in front of the elbow, and contains between its laminae in this situation the large superficial cutaneous veins and nerves; in the hand it is hardly demonstrable, the integument being closely adherent to the deep fascia by dense fibrous bands. Small subcutaneous bursjE are found in this fascia, over the acromion, the olecranon, and the knuckles. The deep fascia of the upper extremity comprises the aponeurosis of the shoulder, arm, and fore- arm, the anterior and posterior annular ligaments of the carpus, and the palmar fascia. These will be considered in the description of the muscles of these several regions.