336 ARTERIES. vein, and the remains of the thymus gland; behind^ it lies on the trachea, oeso- phagus, and thoracic duct. Internally, it is in relation with the arteria innominata; externally, with the left pneumogastric nerve, and left subclavian artery. Plan of the Relations of the Left Common Carotid. Thoracic Portion. In front. Sternum. Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Left innominate vein. Remains of thymus gland. Internally. Arteria innominata. Externally. Left pneumogastric nerv^e. Left subclavian artery. Behind. Trachea. CEsophagus. Thoracic duct. In the neck, the two common carotids resemble each other so closely^ that one description will apply to both. Starting from each side of the neck, each vessel passes obliquely upwards, from behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, to a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides into the external and internal carotid; these names being derived, the former from its distribution to the external parts of the head and face, the latter from its distribution to the internal parts of the cranium. The course of the vessel is indicated by a line drawn from the sternal end of the clavicle below, to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process above. At the lower part of the neck the two common carotid arteries are separated from each other by a very small interval, which corresponds to the trachea; but at the upper part, the thyroid body, the larynx and pharynx project forwards between these vessels, and give the appearance of their being placed further back in this situation. The common carotid artery is contained in a sheath, derived from the deep cervical fascia, which also encloses the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve, the vein lying on the outer side of the artery, and the nerve between the artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. On opening the sheath, these three structures are seen to be separated from one another, each being enclosed in a separate fibrous investment. Relations. At the lower part of the neck the common carotid artery is very deeply seated, being covered by the superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia, the Sterno-mastoid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid muscles, and by the Omo-hyoid opposite the cricoid cartilage; but in the upper part of its course, near its ter- mination, it is more superficial, being covered merely by the integument, the superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia, and inner margin of the Sterno- mastoid, and is contained in a triangular space, bounded behind by the Sterno- mastoid, above by the posterior belly of the Digastric, and below by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid. This part of the artery is crossed obliquely from within outwards by the sterno-mastoid artery; it is also crossed by the facial, lingual, and superior thyroid veins, which terminate in the internal jugular, and, descending on its sheath in front, is seen the descendens noni nerve, this filament being joined with branches from the cervical nerves, which cross the vessel from without inwards. Sometimes the descendens noni is contained within the sheath. The middle thyroid vein crosses it about its centre, and the anterior jugular vein below. Behind, the artery lies in front of the cervical portion of the spine, resting first