NERVOUS SYSTEM. 464 Microscopic Structure. The fibrous nervous matter consists of two different kinds of nerve fibres, which are distinguished as the tubular fibre, and the gela- tinous fibre. In most nerves these two kinds are intermingled; the tubular fibres being more numerous in the nerves of the cerebro-spinal system, the gelatinous predominating in the nerves of the sympathetic system. The tubular fibres appear to consist of tubules of simple membrane, homogeneous in structure, and analogous to the sarcolemma of striped muscle. Within is the proper nerve substance, composed apparently of two different materials; the central part, which occupies the axis of the nerve tube, is a transparent material, termed the axis cylinder; while the outer portion, which forms a tube within the tubular membrane, enclosing the axis-cylinder, is usually opaque and dimly granular, as if from a kind of coagulation; it is generally known as the white substance of Schwann. The peculiar white appearance of the cerebro-spinal nerves is principally due to the large amount of the white substance of Schwann which they contain. It is probable that the essential element of the nerve-tube is the axis cylinder, the tubular membrane and white substance of Schwann affording me- chanical protection to this substance, insulating it from the constituent parts of the neighbouring fibres. In a perfectly fresh state, the nerve tubes present the appearance of simple membranous tubes, perfectly cylindrical, and containing a transparent and ap- parently homogeneous material; but shortly after death, when pressed or separated by coarse manipulation, they undergo changes which render it probable that their contents are composed of the two materials above mentioned, for the fine outline of the previously cylindrical tube is exchanged for a dark double contour, the outer line being formed by the tubular sheath, the inner by the white substance of Schwann, at the same time the granular material collects into small masses which distend the tubular membrane at irregular intervals, while the intermediate sjjaces collapse, giving the fibres a varicose or beaded appearance. In the brain, spinal cord, and nerves of special sense, the tubes are very apt to exhibit this change, owing to extreme thinness of the tubular membrane and to a diminished con- sistence of the contained nervous matter. The contents of the 'nerve-tubes are extremely soft, for when subjected to slight pressure they readily pass from one part of the tube to another, and often cause a bulging at the side of the tube. The contents, also, readily escape on pressure from the extremities of the tube, assuming the appearance and form of globules, consisting of a transparent central part, surrounded by a layer of the white substance of Schwann, marked by its double contour. The nerve fibres vary in size; they are largest within the trunk and branches of the nerves, measuring from ■jo^o'o 30^00 inch. They become gradually smaller as they approach the brain and spinal cord, and usually also in the tissues in which they are distributed. In the grey matter of the brain and spinal cord, they seldom measure more than y-oJoo" T4"oo"o" inch. The gelatinous fibres constitute the main part of the trunk and branches of the sympathetic nerve, and are intermingled in various proportions in the cerebro-spinal nerves. When collected together in great numbers, they exhibit a yellowish-grey colour. They are flattened, soft, and homogenous in appearance, containing nuclei, of a round or oval form, arranged at nearly equal distances, and frequently presenting nucleoli. They vary in diameter, from -^-^^^ to -^^q-q of an inch, and resemble much the fibres of unstriped muscle. They differ from the tubular fibres in their smaller size, being only one-half or one-third their size, in the absence of the double contour, their apparently uniform structure, and their yellowish-grey colour. It appears probable, that these nerves are composed ex- clusively of the substance which corresponds with the axis cylinder of the tubular nerves, and difffers from them in not possessing the tubular membrane, and white substance of Schwann. The vesicular nervous substance is distinguished by its dark reddish-grey colour, and soft consistence. It is found in the brain, spinal cord, and various