LARGE INTESTINE. 637 336.—Two Villi maguified. fourths or five-sixths of its circumference. The larger folds are about two inches in length, and two-thirds of an inch in depth at their broadest part; but the greater number are of smaller size. The larger and smaller folds alternate with each other. They are not found at the commencement of the duodenum, but begin to appear about one or two inches beyond the pylorus. In the lower part of the descending portion, below the point where the common choledic and pancreatic ducts enter the intestine, they are very large and closely approximated. In the transverse portion of the duodenum and upper half of the jejunum, they are large and numerous; and from this point, as far as the middle of the ileum, they diminish considerably in size. In the lower part of the ileum, they almost entirely disappear; hence the comparative thinness of this portion of the intestine, as compared with the duodenum and jejunum. The valvulas conniventes retard the passage of the food along the intestines, and afford a more extensive surface for absorption. The villi are minute, highly vascular processes, projecting from the mucous mem- brane of the small intestine throughout its whole extent, and giving to its surface a beautiful velvety appearance. In shape, some are triangular and laminated, others conical or cylindrical, with clubbed, or fili- form extremities. They are largest and most numerous in the duodenum and jeju- num, and become fewer and smaller in the ileum. Krause estimates their number in the upper part of the small intestine, at from fifty to ninety in a square line; and in the lower part, from forty to seventy; the total number for the whole length of the intestine being four millions. In structure each villus consists of a network of capillary and lacteal vessels, with nuclear corpuscles and fat globules in their interstices, enclosed in a thin prolongation of basement membrane covered by a single layer of columnar epithe- lium, the particles of which are arranged perpendicular to the surface. A layer of organic muscular fibre has been described forming a thin hollow cone round the central lacteal. It is possible that this assists in the propulsion of the chyle along the vessel. The mode of origin of the lacteals within the villi is un- known. The simple Jollicles, or crypts of Lieberkiihn, are found in considerable numbers over every part of the mucous membrane of the small intestine. They consist of minute tubular depressions of the mucous membrane, arranged perpen- dicularly to the surface, upon which they open by small circular apertures. They may be seen with the aid of a lens, their orifices appearing as minute dots, scattered between the villi. Their walls are thin, consisting of a layer of base- ment membrane, lined by cylindrical epithelium, and covered on their exterior by capillary vessels. Their contents vary, even in health, and the purpose served by their secretion is still very doubtful. The duodenal, or Brunner's glands, are limited to the duodenum and com- mencement of the jejunum. They are small, flattened, granular bodies, imbedded in the submucous areolar tissue, and open upon the surface of the mucous mem- bran by minute excretory ducts. They are most numerous and largest near the pylorus. They may be compared to the elementary lobules of a salivary gland, spread out over a broad surface, instead of being collected in a mass. In structure they resemble the pancreas. The solitary glands {glandulce solitari(E), are found scattered throughout the mucous membrane of the small intestine, but are most numerous in the lower part of the ileum. They are small, round, whitish bodies, from half a line to a