LUMBAR VERTEBRiE. J 5 Characters of the Lumbar Vertebra.. The Lumbar Vertebras (jfig. 7) are the largest segments of the vertebral column. The body is large, broader from side to side than from before backwards, and about equal in depth in front and behind, flattened or slightly concave above and below, concave behind, and deeply constricted in front and at the sides, presenting prominent margins which afford a broad basis for the support of the superin- 7.—A Lumbar Vertebra. cumbent weight. The pedicles are very strong, directed backwards from the upper part of the bodies; consequently the inferior intervertebral notches are of large size. The laminge are short, but broad and strong; and the foramen trian- gular, larger than in the dorsal, smaller than in the cervical region. The superior articular processes are concave, and look almost directly inwards; the inferior, convex, look outwards and a little forwards; the former are separated by a much wider interval than the latter, embracing the lower articulating processes of the vertebra above. The transverse processes are long, slender, directed transversely outwards in the upper three lumbar vertebras, slanting a little upwards in the lower two. By some anatomists they are considered homologous with the ribs. Of the two tubercles noticed in connection with the transverse processes in the dorsal region, the superior ones become connected in this region with the back part of the superior articular processes, the inferior ones with the posterior part of the base of the transverse processes. Although in man they are comparatively small, in some animals they attain considerable size, and serve to lock the vertebrae more closely together. The spinous processes are thick and broad, somewhat quadrilateral, horizontal in direction, thicker below than above, and terminate by a rough uneven border. The Fifth Lumbar vertebra is characterised by having the body much thicker in front than behind, which accounts for the prominence of the sacro-vertebral articulation, by the smaller size of its spinous process, by the wide interval between the inferior articulating processes, and by the greater size and thickness of its transverse processes. Structure of the Vertebrce. The structure of a vertebra differs in different parts. The body is composed of light spongy cancellous tissue, having a thin coating of compact tissue on its external surface perforated by numerous orifices, some of large size, for the passage of vessels, its interior being traversed by one or two large canals for the reception of veins, which converge towards a single large irregular or several small apertures at the posterior part of the body of each bone. The arch and processes projecting from it have, on the contrary, an exceedingly thick covering of compact tissue.