OSTEOLOGY. 10 The pedicles are directed obliquely outwards, and the superior intervertebral notches are deeper, but narrower, than the inferior. The lamince are narrow, long, thinner above than below, and overlap each other; enclosing the spinal foramen, which is very large, and of a triangular form. The spinous processes are short, bifid at the extremity, to afford greater extent of surface for the attach- ment of muscles, the two divisions being often of unequal size. They increase in length from the fourth to the seventh. The transverse processes are short, directed downwards, outwards, and forwards, are bifid at their extremity, and marked by a groove along their upper surface, which runs downwards and out- wards from the superior intervertebral notch, and serves for the transmission of one of the cervical nerves. The transverse processes are pierced at their base by a foramen, for the transmission of the vertebral artery, vein, and plexus of nerves. Each process is formed by two roots: the anterior root arises from the side of the body, and corresponds to the ribs: the posterior root springs from the junction of the pedicle with the lamina, and corresponds with the transverse processes in the dorsal region. It is by the junction of these two processes, that the vertebral foramen is formed. The extremities of each of these roots form the anterior and posterior tubercles of the transverse processes. The articular processes are oblique: the superior are of an oval form, flattened, and directed upwards and backwards^ the inferior downwards and forwards. The peculiar vertebrae in the cervical region are the first or Atlas; the second or Axis; and the seventh or Vertebra prominens. The great modifications in the form of the atlas and axis are to admit of the nodding and rotatory movements of the head. The Atlas (fig. 2) (so named from supporting the globe of the head). The chief 2.—Cervical Vertebra, or Atlas. pecularities of this bone are, that it has neither body, nor spinous process. The body is detached from the rest of the bone, and forms the odontoid process of the second vertebra, the parts corresponding to the pedicles pass in front and join to form the anterior arch. The atlas consists of an anterior arch, a posterior arch, and two lateral masses. The anterior arch, forms about one-fifth of the bone; its anterior surface is convex, and presents about its centre a tubercle, for the attachment of the Longus colli muscle; posteriorly it is concave, and marked by a smooth oval or circular facet, for articulation with the odontoid process of the axis. The posterior arch forms about two-fifths of the circumference of the bone; it terminates behind in a tubercle, which is the rudiment of a spinous process, and gives origin to the Eectus capitis posticus minor. The diminutive size of this process prevents any interference in the movements between it and the cranium. The posterior part of the arch presents above a rounded edge;