ACROMIAL AND SCAPULAR REGIONS. 267 AcEOMiAL Region. Deltoid. The deep fascia covering tlie Deltoid (deltoid aponeurosis), is a thick and strong fibrous layer, which covers the outer surface of the muscle, and sends doAvn numerous prolongations between its fasciculi; it is continuous, internally, with the fascia covering the great Pectoral muscle; behind, with that covering the Infra- spinatus and back of the arm: above, it is attached to the clavicle, the acromion, and spine of the scapula. The Deltoid is a large, thick, triangular muscle, which forms the convexity of the shoulder, and has received its name from its resemblance to the Greek letter A reversed. It surrounds the shoulder-joint in the greater part of its extent, covering it on its outer side, and in front and behind. It arises from the outer third of the anterior border and upper surface of the clavicle; from the outer margin and upper surface of the acromion process; and from the whole length of the lower border of the spine of the scapula. From this extensive origin, the fibres converge towards their insertion, the middle passing vertically, the anterior obliquely backwards, the posterior obliquely forwards; they unite to form a thick tendon, which is inserted into a rough prominence on the middle of the outer side of the shaft of the humerus. This muscle is remarkably coarse in texture, and intersected by three or four tendinous laminae; these are attached, at intervals, to the clavicle and acromion, extend into the substance of the muscle, and give origin to a number of fleshy fibres. The largest ^^of these laminae extends from the summit of the acromion. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Platysma, supra-acromial nerves, the superficial fascia, and integument. Its deep surface is separated from the head of the humerus by a large sacculated synovial bursa, and covers the coracoid process, coraco-acromial ligament, Pectoralis minor, Coraco-brachialis, both heads of the Biceps, tendon of the Pectoralis major. Teres minor, scapular, and external heads of the Triceps, the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the humerus. Its anterior border is separated from the Pectoralis major by a cellular interspace, which lodges the cephalic vein and descending branch of the thoracic-acromial artery. Its posterior border rests on the Infra-spinatus and Triceps muscles. Nerves. The Deltoid is supplied by the circumflex nerve. Actions. The Deltoid raises the arm directly from the side, so as to bring it at right angles with the trunk. Its anterior fibres, assisted by the Pectoralis major, draw the arm forwards; and its posterior fibres, aided by the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi, draw it backwards. Dissection. Divide the Deltoid across, near its upper part, by an incision carried along the margin of the clavicle, the acromion process, and spine of the scapula, and reflect it downwards; the bursa will be seen on its under surface, as well as the circumflex vessels and nerves. The insertion of the muscle should be carefully examined. Anterior Scapular Region. Subscapularis. The subscapular aponeurosis is a thin membrane, attached to the entire cir- cumference of the subscapular fossa, and aflTording attachment by its inner surface to some of the fibres of the Subscapularis muscle: when this is removed, the Sub- scapularis muscle is exposed. The Subscapularis is a large triangular muscle, which fills up the subscapular fossa arising from its internal two-thirds, with the exception of a narrow margin along the posterior border, and the inner side of the superior and inferior angles, which afford attachment to the Serratus magnus. Some fibres arise from tendinous laminae, which intersect the muscle, and are attached to ridges on the bone; and others from an aponeurosis, which separates the muscle from the Teres major and