ANKLE JOINT. 197 The anterior fasciculus, the shortest of the three, passes from the anterior marghi of the summit of the external malleolus, downwards and forwards, to the astragalus, in front of its external articular facet. The posterior fasciculus, the most deeply seated, passes from the depression at the inner and back part of the external malleolus to the astragalus, behind its ex- ternal malleolar facet. Its fibres are almost horizontal in direction. The middle fasciculus, the longest of the three, is a narrow rounded cord, passing from the apex of the external malleolus downwards and slightly backwards to the middle of the outer side of the os calcis. It is covered by the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis. There is no posterior ligament, its place being supplied by the transverse ligament of the tibia and fibula. The Synovial Membrane invests the inner surface of the ligaments, and sends a duplicature upwards between the lower extremities of the tibia and fibula for a short distance. .144,—Ankle-Joint: Tarsal and Tarso-Metatarsal Articulations. External View. Pdght Side. Relations. The tendons, vessels, and nerves in connection with the joint are, in front, from within outwards, the Tibialis anticus, Extensor proprius pollicis, anterior tibial vessels, anterior tibial nerve. Extensor communis digitorum, and Peroneus tertius; behind, from within outwards. Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus digitorum, posterior tibial vessels, posterior tibial nerve. Flexor longus pollicis, and, in the groove behind the external malleolus, the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and peroneal. The Nerves are derived from the anterior tibial. Actions. The movements of the joint are limited to flexion and extension. There is no lateral motion. 5. Articulations of the Tarsus. These articulations may be subdivided into three sets: i. The articulation of the first row of tarsal bones. 2. The articulation of the second row of tarsal bones. 3. The articulations of the two rows with each other.