ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. 678 The muscles of the epiglottis are, the Thyro-epiglottideus. Arytaeno-epiglottideus superior. Arytasno-epiglottideus inferior. The Thyro-epiglottideus is a delicate fasciculus, which arises from the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage, just external to the origin of the Thyro-arytenoid muscle, and spreading out upon the outer surface of the sacculus laryngis, some of its fibres are lost in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, whilst others are continued forwards to the margin of the epiglottis {Depressor epiglottidis). The ArytcBno-epiglottideus superior consists of a few delicate muscular fasciculi, which arise from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage, and become lost in the fold of mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilage and side of the epiglottis {aryteno-epiglottidean folds). The Arytceno-epiglottideus inferior {Compressor sacculi laryngis, Hilton) arises from the arytenoid cartilage, just above the attachment of the superior vocal cord; passing forwards and upwards, it spreads out upon the inner and upper part of the sacculus laryngis, and is inserted, by a broad attachment, into the margin of the epiglottis. This muscle is separated from the preceding by an indistinct areolar interval. Actions. In considering the action of the muscles of the larynx, they may be conveniently divided into two groups, viz.: i. Those which open and close the glottis. 2. Those which regulate the degree of tension of the vocal cords. I. The muscles which open the glottis are the Crico-arytaenoidei postici; and those which close it, are the Arytasnoideus, and the Crico-aryt£enoidei laterales. 2. The muscles which regulate the tension of the vocal cords are, the Crico- thyroidei, which tense and elongate them; and the Thyro-arytasnoidei, which relax and shorten them. The Thyro-epiglottideus is a depressor of the epiglottis, and the Arytseno-epiglottidei constrict the superior aperture of the larynx, com- press the sacculi laryngis, and empty them of their contents. The Crico-arytmioidci postici separate the chordee vocales, and, consequently, open the glottis, by rotating the base of the arytenoid cartilages outwards and backwards ; so that their anterior angles, and the ligaments attached to them, become widely separated, the vocal cords, at the same time, being made tense. The Crico-arytcenoidei laterales close the glottis, by rotating the base of the arytenoid cartilages inwards, so as to ai3proximate their anterior angles. The Arytcenoidcvs muscle- approximates the arytenoid cartilages, and thus closes the opening of the glottis, especially at its back part. The Crico-thyroid muscles effect the tension and elongation of the vocal cords, by drawing down the thyroid cartilage over the cricoid. The Thyro-arytcBiioidei muscles draw the arytenoid cartilages, together with the part of the cricoid to which they are connected, forwards towards the thyroid, and thus shorten aod relax the vocal cords. The Thyro-epiglottidei depress the epiglottis, and assist in compressing the sacculi laryngis. The Arytseno-epiglottideus superior, constricts the superior aperture of the larynx, when it is drawn upwards, during deglutition, and the opening closed by the epiglottis. The Arjtffino-epiglottideus inferior, together with some fibres of the Thyro-arytajnoidei compress the sacculus laryngis. The Mucous Membrane of the Larynx is continuous, above, with that lining the mouth and pharynx, and is prolonged through the trachea and bronchi into the lungs. It lines both surfaces of the epiglottis, to which it is closely adherent, and forms the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, which encircle the superior aperture of the larynx. It lines the whole of the cavity of the larynx; forms, by its redu- plication, the chief part of the superior, or false, vocal cord; and, from the ventricle, is continued into the sacculus laryngis. It is then reflected over the true vocal cords, where it is thin, and very intimately adherent; covers the inner surface of the crico-thyroid membrane, and cricoid cartilage; and is ultimately continuous with the lining membrane of the trachea. It is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium, below the superior vocal cord; but, above this point, the ciliae are found only in front, as high as the middle of the epiglottis. In the rest of its extent, the epithelium is of the squamous variety.