MUSCLES AND FASCIiE 238 159- middle fibres, into the upper margin of the acromion process, and into the whole length of the upper border of the spine of the scapula; the inferior fibres converge near the scapula, and are attached to a triangular aponeurosis, which glides over . ,r 1 ,.,1-r.i a smooth surface at the inner extremity of -Dissection of the Muscles of the Back. , . -i-- x-.-- ^i i the spine, and is inserted into a tubercle in immediate connection with its outer part. The Trapezius is fleshy in the greater part of its extent, but tendinous at its origin and insertion. At its occipital origin, it is connected to the bone bj a thin fibrous lamina, firmly adherent to the skin, and wanting the lustrous, shining appearance of aponeurosis. At its origin from the spines of the vertebrae, it is connected by means of a broad semi- elliptical aponeurosis, which occupies the space between the sixth cervical and the third dorsal vertebrae, and forms, with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle, a tendinous ellipse. The remaining part of the origin is etfected by numerous short tendinous fibres. If the Trapezius is dis- sected on both sides, the two muscles resemble a trapezium, or diamond-shaped quadrangle; two angles, corresponding to the shoulders; a third, to the occipital protuberance ; and the fourth, to the spinous process of the last dorsal ver- tebra. The clavicular insertion of this muscle varies as to the extent of its attachment; it sometimes advances as far as the middle of the clavicle, and may even become blended with the posterior edge of the Sterno-mastoid, or overlap it. This should be borne in mind in the operation for tying the third part of the subclavian artery. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument to which it is closely adherent above, but separated below by an aponeurotic lamina. By its deep sur- face, in the neck, with the Complexus, Splenius, Levator anguli scapula, and Rhomboideus minor; in the back, with the Rhomboideus major, Supra-spinatus, Infra-spinatus, a small portion of the Serratiis posticus superior, the intervertebral aponeurosis which separates it from the Erector spinae, and with the Latissimus dorsi. The spinal accessory nerve passes beneath the anterior border of this muscle, near the clavicle. The outer margin of its cervical portion forms the posterior boundary of the posterior triangle of the neck, the other boundaries being the Sterno-mastoid in front, and the clavicle below. The ligamentum nuchce (fig. i6o) is a thin band of condensed cellulo-fibrous membrane, placed in the line of union between the two Trapezii in the neck. It extends from the external occipital protuberance to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra, where it is continuous with the supra-spinous ligament. From its anterior surface a fibrous slip is given off" to the spinous process of each of the cervical vertebrae, excepting the atlas, so as to form a septum between the muscles on each side of the neck. In man, it is merely the rudiment of an important elastic ligament, which, in some of the lower animals, serves to sustain the weight of the head. The Latissimus Dorsi is a broad flat muscle, which covers the lumbar and lower half of the dorsal regions, and is gradually contracted into a narrow fasci- culus at its insertion into the humerus. It arises by an aponeurosis from the