297 ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. thinner of the two, separates the Vastus internus from the Adductor muscles. Besides these, there are numerous smaller septa, separating the individual muscles, and enclosing each in a distinct sheath. At the upper and inner part of the thigh, a little below Poupart's ligament, a large oval-shaped aperture is observed: it transmits the internal saphenous vein, and other smaller vessels, and is termed the saphenous opening. In order more correctly to consider the mode of forma- tion of this aperture, the fascia lata is described as consisting, in this part of the thigh, of two portions, an iliac portion, and a pubic portion. The iliac portion is all that part of the fascia lata placed on the outer side of the saphenous opening. It is attached, externally, to the crest of the ilium, and its anterior superior spine, to the Avhole length of Poupart's ligament, as far inter- nally as the spine of the pubes, and to the pectineal line in conjunction with Gimbernat's ligament. From the spine of the pubes, it is reflected downwards and outwards, forming an arched margin, the superior cornu, or outer boundary of the saphenous opening; this margin overlies, and is adherent to the anterior layer of the sheath of the femoral vessels; to its edge is attached the cribriform fascia, and, below, it is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The pubic portion is situated at the inner side of the saphenous opening; at the lower margin of this aperture it is continuous with the iliac portion; traced upwards, it is seen to cover the surface of the Pectineus muscle, and passing behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, to which it is closely united, is con- tinuous with the sheath of the Psoas and Iliacus muscles, and is finally lost in the fibrous capsule of the hip-joint. This fascia is attached above to the pectineal line in front of the insertion of the aponeurosis of the External oblique, and internally to the margin of the pubic arch. From this description it may be observed, that the iliac portion of the fascia lata passes in front of the femoral vessels, the pubic portion behind them, an apparent aperture consequently exists between the two, through which the internal saphenous joins the femoral vein. The fascia should now be removed from the surface of the muscles. This may be effected by pinching it up between the forceps, dividing it, and separating it from each muscle in the course of its fibres. The Tensor Vagince Femoris is a short flat muscle, situated at the upper and outer side of the thigh. It arises from the anterior part of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, and from the outer surface of the anterior superior spinous process, between the Gluteus medius, and Sartorius. The muscle passes obliquely downvN^ards, and a little backwards, to be inserted into the fascia lata, about one- fourth down the outer side of the thigh. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia lata and the integument. By its deep surface, with the Gluteus medius. Rectus femoris, Vastus externus, and the ascending branches of the external circumflex artery. By its anterior border, with the Sartorius, from which it is separated below by a triangular space^ in which is seen the Rectus femoris. By its posterior border, with the Gluteus medius. The Sartorius, the longest muscle in the body, is a flat, narrow, riband-like muscle, which arises by tendinous fibres from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and upper half of the notch below it; it passes obliquely across the upper and anterior part of the thigh, from the outer to the inner side of the limb, then descends vertically, as far as the inner side of the knee, passing behind the inner condyle of the femur, and terminates in a tendon, which curving ob- liquely forwards, expands into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, nearly as far forwards as the crest. This expansion covers the insertion of the tendons of the Gracilis and Semitendinosus, with which it is partially united, a synovial bursa being inter- posed between them. An offset is derived from this aponeurosis, which blends with the fibrous capsule of the knee-joint, and another, given off" from its lower border, blends with the fascia on the inner side of the leg. The relations of this