OSTEOLOGY. 46 bones. Its posterior, divided into two parts, is connected by its upper half with the rostrum of the sphenoid; by its lower half with the vomer. The inferior border serves for the attachment of the triangular cartilage of the nose. On each side of the perpendicular plate numerous grooves and canals are seen, leading from foramina on the cribriform plate; they lodge filaments of the olfactory nerves. The Lateral Masses of the ethmoid consist of a number of thin walled cellular cavities, the ethmoidal cells, interposed between two vertical plates of bone, the outer one of which forms part of the orbit, and the inner one part of the nasal fossa of the corresponding side. In the disarticulated bone, many of these cells appear to be broken; but when the bones are articulated, they are closed-in in every part. The upper surface of each lateral mass presents a number of ap- parently half-broken cellular spaces; these, however, are completely closed-in when articulated with the edges of the ethmoidal fissure of the frontal bone. Crossing this surface are two grooves on each side, converted into canals by arti- culation with the frontal; they are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina; they open on the inner wall of the orbit. The posterior surface also presents large irregular cellular cavities, which are closed in by articulation with the sphenoidal turbinated bones, and orbital process of the palate. The cells at the anterior surface are completed by the lachrymal bone and nasal process of the supe- rior maxillary, and those below also by the superior maxillary. The outer surface of each lateral mass is formed of a thin smooth square plate of bone, called the OS planum; it forms part of the inner wall of the orbit, and articulates above with the orbital plate of the frontal; below, with the superior maxillary and orbital process of the palate; in front, with the lachrymal; and behind, with the sphenoid. From the inferior part of each lateral mass, immediately beneath the os planum, there projects downwards and backwards an irregular lamina of bone, called the unciform process, from its hook-like form: it serves to close in the upper part of the orifice of the antrum, and articulates with the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinated bone. The inner surface of each lateral mass forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa of the cor- responding side. It is formed of a thin lamella of bone, which de- scends from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and termi- nates below in a free convoluted margin, the middle turbinated bone. The whole of this surface is rough, and marked above by nu- merous grooves which run nearly vertically downwards from the cribriform plate; they lodge branches of the olfactory nerve, which are distributed on the mucous membrane, covering the bone. The back part of this surface is subdivided by a narrow oblique fissure, the superior meatus of the nose, bounded above by a thin curved plate of bone—the superior turbinated bone. By means of an orifice at the upper part of this fissure, the posterior ethmoidal cells open into the nose. Below and in front of the superior meatus is seen the convex surface of another thin convoluted plate of bone—the middle turbinated bone. It extends along the whole length of the inner surface of each lateral mass; its lower margin is free and thick, and its concavity, directed outwards, assists in forming the middle meatus. It is by means of a large orifice at the upper and front part of the middle meatus, that the anterior ethmoid cells, and through them the frontal sinuses, by means of a funnel-shaped canal, the infundibulum, communicate with the nose. The cellular cavities of each lateral mass, thus walled in by the os planum on the outer side, and by its articulation with the other bones already mentioned, are 40.—Ethmoid Bone. Inner Surface of Right Lateral Mass (enlarged).