444 VEINS. liver, which partly and occasionally completely surrounds it; behind, it rests upon the vertebral column, the right crus of the Diaphragm, the right renal and lumbar arteries; on the left side, it is in relation with the aorta. It receives in its course the following branches: Lumbar. Supra-renal. Right spermatic. Phrenic. Renal. Hepatic. Peculiarities. In Position. This vessel is sometimes placed on the left side of the aorta, as high as the left renal vein, after receiving which, it crosses over to its usual position on the right side; or it may be placed altogether on the left side of the aoi"ta, as far upwards as its termination in the heart: in such cases, the abdominal and thoracic viscera, together with the great vessels, are all transposed. Point of Termination. Occasionally the inferior vena cava joins the right azygos vein, which is then of large size. In such cases, the superior cava receives the whole of the blood from the body before transmitting it to the right auricle, the blood from the hepatic veins excepted, these vessels terminating directly in the right auricle. The lumbar veins, three or four in number on each side, collect the blood by dorsal branches from the muscles and integument of the loins, and by abdominal branches from the walls of the abdomen, where they communicate with the epigastric veins. At the spine, they receive branches from the spinal plexuses, and then pass forwards round the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae beneath the Psoas magnus, and terminate at the back part of the inferior cava. The left lumbar veins are longer than the right, and pass behind the aorta. The lumbar veins commu- nicate with each other by branches which pass in front of the transverse processes. Occasionally two or more of these veins unite to form a single trunk, the ascending lumbar, which serves to connect the common iliac, ilio-lumbar, lumbar, and azygos veins of the corresponding side of the body. The spermatic veins emerge from the back of the testis, and receive branches from the epididymis; they form a branched and convoluted plexus, called the spermatic plexus (plexus pampiniformis), below the abdominal ring : the vessels composing this plexus are very numerous, and ascend along the cord in front of the vas deferens; having entered the abdomen, they coalesce to form two branches, which ascend on the Psoas muscle, behind the peritoneum, lying one on each side of the spermatic artery, and unite to form a single vessel, which opens on the right side in the inferior vena cava, piercing this vessel obliquely; on the left side in the left renal vein, terminating at right angles with this vein. The spermatic veins are provided with valves. The left spermatic vein passes behind the sigmoid flexure of the colon; this circumstance, as well as the indirect communication of the vessel with the inferior vena cava, may serve to explain the more frequent occurrence of varicocele on the left side. The ovarian veins are analogous to the spermatic in the male; they form a plexus near the ovary, and in the broad ligament and Fallopian tube, communi- cating vv^ith the uterine plexus. They terminate as in the male. Valves are occasionally found in these veins. These vessels, like the uterine veins, become much enlarged during pregnancy. The renal veins are of large size, and placed in front of the divisions of the renal arteries. The left is longer than the right, and passes in front of the aorta, just below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. It receives the left spermatic and left inferior phrenic veins. It usually opens into the vena cava, a little higher than the right. The supra-renal vein terminates, on the right side, in the vena cava; on the left side, in the left renal or phrenic vein. The phrenic veins follow the course of the phrenic arteries. The two superior, of small size, accompany the corresponding nerve and arterj^; the I'ight tei minating