220 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. its fibres pass downwards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted, by strong tendinous laminae, into the lower and back part of the inner side of the ramus and angle of the lower jaw, as high as the dental foramen. Relations. By its external surface, with the ramus of the lower jaw, from which it is separated, at its upper part, by the External pterygoid, the internal lateral ligament, the internal maxillary artery, and the dental vessels and nerves. By its internal surface, with the Tensor palati, being separated from the Superior constrictor of the pharynx by a cellular interval. The External Pterygoid is a short thick muscle, somewhat conical in form, and extends almost horizontally between the zygomatic fossa and the condyle of the jaw. It arises from the pterygoid ridge on the great win^ of the sphenoid, and the portion of bone included between it and the base of the pterygoid process; from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate; and from the tuberosity of the palate and superior maxillary bones. Its fibres pass horizontally backwards and outwards, to be inserted into a depression in front of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and into the corresponding part of the inter-articular fibro- cartilage. This muscle, at its origin, appears to consist of two portions separated by a slight interval; hence the terms upper and lower head sometimes used in the description of the muscle. Relations. By its external surface, with the ramus of the lower jaw, the internal maxillary artery, which crosses it, the tendon of the Temporal muscle, and the Masseter. By its internal surface, it rests against the upper part of the Internal pterygoid, the internal lateral ligament, the middle meningeal artery, and inferior maxillary nerve; by its upper border it is in relation with the temporal and masseteric branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. Nerves. These muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve. Actions. The Temporal, Masseter, and Internal pterygoid raise the lower jaw against the upper with great force. The two latter muscles, from the obliquity in the direction of their fibres, assist the External pterygoid in drawing the lower jaw forwards upon the upper, the jaw being drawn back again by the deep fibres of the Masseter, and posterior fibres of the Temporal. The External pterygoid muscles are the direct agents in the trituration of the food, drawing the lower jaw directly forwards, so as to make the lower teeth project beyond the upper. If the muscle of one side acts, the corresponding side of tljie jaw is drawn forwards, and the other condyle remaining fixed, the symphysis deviates to the opposite side. The alternation of these movements on the two sides, produces trituration. MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE NECK. The muscles of the Neck may be arranged into groups, corresponding with the region in which they are situated. These groups are nine in number :— 1. Superficial Region. 2. Depressors of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. 3. Elevators of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. 4. Muscles of the Tongue. 5. Muscles of the Pharynx. 6. Muscles of the Soft Palate. 7. Muscles of the Anterior Yer^ tebral Region. 8. Muscles of the Lateral Ver- tebral Region. Q. Muscles of the Larynx.