OF THE ABDOMEN. 249 Muscles of the Abdomen. The muscles in this region are, Obliquus Externus Obliquus Internus. Transversalis. the Rectus. Pyramidalis. Quadratus Lumborum. Dissection (hg. 16^). To dissect the abdominal muscles, a vertical incision should be 162.—Dissection of Abdomen. made from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes; a second oblique incision should extend from the umbilicus upwards and outwards to the outer surface of the chest, as high as the lower border of the fifth or sixth rib; and a third, commencing midway between the umbilicus and pubes, should pass transversely outwards to the anterior superior ihac spine, and along the crest of the ilium as far as its posterior third. The three flaps included between these incisions should then be reflected from within outwards, in the line of direction of the mus- cular fibres. If necessary, the abdominal muscles may be made tense by inflating the peritoneal cavity through the umbilicus. The External Oblique Muscle (fig. 163), so called from the direction of its fibres, is situated on the side and fore part of the abdomen; being the largest and the most superficial of the three flat muscles in this region. It is broad, thin, irregu- larly quadrilateral in form, its muscular portion occupying the side, its aponeurosis the anterior v^all of that cavity. It arises, by eight fleshy digitations, from the ex- ternal surface and lower borders of the eight inferior ribs; these digitations are arranged in an oblique line running downwards and backwards; the upper ones being attached close to the cartilages of the corresponding ribs; the lowest, to the apex of the cartilage of the last rib; the intermediate ones, to the ribs at some distance from their cartilages. The five superior serrations increase in size from above downwards, and are received between corresponding processes of the Serratus magnus; the three lower ones diminish in size from above downwards, receiving between them corresponding processes from the Latissimus dorsi. From these attachments, the fleshy fibres proceed in various directions. Those from the lowest ribs pass nearly vertically downwards, to be inserted into the anterior half of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium; the middle and upper fibres, directed downwards and forwards, terminate in tendinous fibres, which spread out into a broad aponeurosis. This aponeurosis, joined with that of the opposite muscle along the median line, covers the whole of the front of the abdomen: above, it is connected w4th the lower border of the Pectoralis major; below, its fibres are closely aggregated together, and extend obliquely across from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the os pubis and the pec- tineal line. In the median line, it interlaces with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle, forming the linea alba, and extends from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis. That portion of the aponeurosis which extends between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the os pubis, is a broad band, folded inwards, and continuous below with the fascia lata; it is called Poupart's ligament. The portion which is reflected from Poupart's ligament backwards and inwards into the pectineal line, is called Gimbernafs ligament. From the point of attachment of