574 ORGANS OF SENSE. a flattened form, lose their nuclei, and finally become closely compacted together into a firm, dense, horny texture. In chemical composition, the nails resemble the epidermis. According to Mulder, they contain a somewhat larger proportion of carbon and sulphur. Hairs are peculiar modifications of the epidermis, and consist essentially of the same structure as that membrane. They are found on nearly every part of the surface of the body, excepting the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, and vary much in length, thickness, and colour in difierent parts of the body, and in the different races of mankind. In some parts they are so short as not to project beyond the follicle containing them; in other parts, as upon the scalp, they are of considerable length; along the margin of the eyelids and upon the face, they are remarkable for their thickness. A hair consists of a root, the part implanted in the skin; the shaft, the portion projecting from its surface, and the point. They generally present a cylindrical or more or less flattened form, and a reniform out- line upon a transverse section. The root of the hair presents a bulbous enlargement at its extremity ; it is whiter in colour, and softer in texture, than the stem, and is lodged in a follicular involution of the epidermis, called the hair-follicle. When the hair is of con- siderable length, the follicle extends into the subcutaneous cellular tissue. The hair-follicle is bulbous at its deep extremity, like the hair which it contains, and has opening into it, near its free extremity, the orifices of the ducts of one or more sebaceous glands. In structure, the hair-follicle consists of two coats: an outer or dermic, and an inner or cuticular. The outer coat is formed mainly of areolar tissue; it is continuous with the corium, is highly vascular, and supplied by numerous minute nervous filaments. The inner or cuticular lining is continuous with the epidermis, and, at the bottom of the hair-follicle, with the root of the hair; this cuticular lining resembles the epidermis in the peculiar rounded form and soft character of those cells which lie in contact with the outer coat of the hair-follicle, and the thin, dry, and scaly character of those which lie near the surface of the hair, to which they are closely adherent. When the hair is plucked from its follicle, this cuticular lining most commonly adheres to it, and forms Avhat is called the root-sheath. At the bottom of each hair-follicle is a small conical-shaped vascular eminence or papilla, similar in every respect to those found upon the surface of the skin; it is continuous with the dermic layer of the follicle, is highly vascular, and probably supplied with nervous fibrils: this is the part through which material is supplied for the production and constant growth of the hair. The root of the hair rests upon this conical-shaped eminence, and is continuous with the cuticular lining of the follicle at this part. It consists of nucleated cells, similar in every respect to those which in other situations form the epidermis. These cells gradually enlarge as they are pushed upwards into the soft bulb, and some of them contain pigment granules, which exist either in separate cells, or the granules are separate, but aggregated round the nucleus; it is these granules which give rise to the colour of the hair. It occasionally happens that these pigment granules completely fill the cells in the centre of the bulb, which gives rise to the dark tract of pigment often found, of greater or less length, in the axis of the hair. The shaft of the hair consists of a central part or medulla; surrounding this is the fibrous part of the hair, covered externally by the cortex. The medulla occupies the centre of the shaft, and ceases towards the point of the hair. It is usually wanting in the fine hairs covering the surface of the body, and commonly in those of the head. It is more opaque and deeper coloured than the fibrous part, and consists of cells containing pigment or fat-granules. The fibrous portion of the hair constitutes the chief part of the stem; its cells are elongated, and unite to form flattened fusiform fibres. These also contain pigment granules, which assume a linear arrangement. The cells which form the cortex of the hair consist of a single layer which surrounds those about to form the fibrous layer; they are converted into thin flat scales, having an imbricated arrangement.