158 ARTICULATIONS. The laminse are arranged concentrically one within the other, with their edges turned towards the corresponding surfaces of the vertebrae, and consist of alternate plates of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage. These plates are not quite vertical in their direction, those near the circumference being curved outwards and closely approximated; whilst those nearest the centre curve in the opposite direction, and are somewhat more widely separated. The fibres of which each plate is composed, are directed, for the most part, obliquely from above downwards; the fibres of an adjacent plate have an exactly opposite arrangement, varying in their direction in every layer; whilst in some few they are horizontal. This laminar arrangement belongs to about the outer half of each disc, the central part being occupied by a soft, pulpy, highly elastic substance, of a yellowish colour, which rises up con- siderably above the surrounding level, when the disc is divided horizontally. This substance presents no concentric arrangement, and consists of white fibrous tissue, having interspersed cells of variable shape and size. The pulpy matter, which is especially well developed in the lumbar region, is separated from imme- diate contact with the vertebrae, by the interposition of thin plates of cartilage. 2. Ligaments connecting the Lamina.. Ligamenta Subflava. The Ligamenta Subflava are interposed between the laminae of the vertebrte, from the axis to the sacrum. They are most distinct when seen from the interior of the spinal canal; when viewed from the outer surface, they appear short, being ^overlapped by the laminae. Each ligament consists of two lateral portions, which commence on each side at the root of either articular process, and pass backwards to the point where the laminae converge to form the spinous process, where their margins are thickest, and separated by a slight interval, filled up with areolar tissue. These ligaments consist of yellow elastic tissue, the fibres of which, almost per- pendicular in direction, are attached to the anterior surface of the margin of the lamina above, and to the posterior surface, as well as to the margin of the lamina below. In the cervical region, they are thin in texture, but very broad and long; they become thicker in the dorsal region; and in the lumbar acquire very consi- derable thickness. Their highly elastic property serves to preserve the upright posture, and to counteract the efforts of the flexor muscles of the spine. These ligaments do not exist between the occiput and atlas, or between the atlas and axis. 3. Ligaments connecting the Articular Process. Capsular. The Capsular Ligaments are thin and loose ligamentous sacs, attached to the contiguous margins of the articulating processes of each vertebra, through the greater part of their circumference, and completed internally by the ligamenta subflava. They are longer and more loose in the cervical than in the dorsal or lumbar regions. The capsular ligaments are lined on their inner surface by synovial membrane. 4. Ligaments connecting the Spinous Processes. Inter-spinous. Supra-spinous. The Lnter-spinous Ligaments^ thin and membranous, are interposed between the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar regions. Each ligament extends from the root to near the summit of each spinous process, and connects together their adjacent margins. They are narrow and elongated in the dorsal region, broader, quadrilateral in form, and thicker in the lumbar region. The Supra-spinous Ligament is a strong fibrous cord, which connects together the apices of the spinous processes from the seventh cervical to the spine of the sacrum. It is thicker and broader in the lumbar than in the dorsal region, and intimately blended, in both situations, with the neighbouring aponeuroses. The