THORACIC AORTA. 38s The Thoracic Aorta commences at the lower border of the third dorsal vertebra, on the left side, and terminates at the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, in front of the last dorsal vertebra. At its commencement, it is situated on the left side of the spine; it approaches the median line as it descends; and, ^t its termination, lies directly in front of the column. The direction of this vessel being influenced by the spine, upon which it rests, it is concave forwards in the dorsal region, and, as the branches given off from it are small, the diminution in the size of the vessel is inconsiderable. It is contained in the back part of the posterior mediastinum, being in relation, in front, from above downwards, with the left pulmonary artery, the left bronchus, the pericardium, and the oesophagus; behind, with the vertebral column, and the vena azygos minor; on the right side, with the vena azygos major, and thoracic duct; on the left side, with the left pleura, and lung. The oesophagus, with its accompanying nerves, lies on the right side of the aorta above; in front of this vessel, in the middle of its course; whilst, at its lower part, it is on the left side, on a plane anterior to it. Plan of the Relations of the Thoracic Aorta. Right side. CEsophagus (above). Vena azygos major. Thoracic duct. In front. Left pulmonary artery. Left bronchus. Pericardium. CEsophagus. Behind. Vertebral column. Vena azygos minor. Left side. Pleura. Left lung. Oesophagus (below). Surgical Anatomy. The student should now consider the effects likely to be produced by aneurism of the thoracic aorta, a disease of common occurrence. When we consider the great depth of the vessel from the surface, and the number of important structures which surround it on every side, it may be easily conceived what a variety of obscure symptoms may arise from disease of this part of the arterial system, and how they may be liable to be mistaken for those of other affections. Aneurism of the thoracic aorta most usually extends backwards, along the left side of the spine, producing absorption of the bodies of the vertebrae, causing extensive curvature of the spine; whilst the irritation or pressure on the cord, will give rise to pain, either in the chest, back, or loins, with radiating pain in the left upper intercostal spaces, from pressure on the intercostal nerves; at the same time, the tumour may project back on each side of the spine, beneath the integument, as a pulsating swelling, simulating abscess connected with diseased bone; or it may displace the oesophagus, and compress the lung on one or the other side. If the tumour extend forward, it may press upon and displace the heart, giving rise to palpita- tion, and other symptoms of disease of that organ; or it may displace, or even compress, the oesophagus, causing pain and difficulty of swallowing, as in stricture of that tube, and ultimately even open into it by ulceration, producing fatal haemorrhage. If the disease make way to either side, it may press upon the thoracic duct; or it may burst into the pleural cavity, or into the trachea or lung; and lastly, it may open into the posterior mediastinum. Branches of the Thoracic Aorta. Pericardiac. (Esophageal. Bronchial. Posterior mediastinal. Intercostal. The pericardiac are a few small vessels, irregular in their origin, distributed to the pericardium. c c