69 BASE OF THE SKULL. anterius, or sphenoidal fissure, formed above by the lesser wing of the sphenoid ; below, by the greater wing; internally, by the body of the sphenoid; and com- pleted externally by the orbital plate of the frontal bone. It transmits the third, fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Behind the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure is the foramen rotundum, for the passage of the second division of the fifth or superior maxillary nerve; still more posteriorly is seen a small orifice, the foramen Vesalii; this opening is situated between the foramen rotundum and ovale, a little internal to both; it varies in size in different individuals, and transmits a small vein. It opens below in the pterygoid fossa, just at the outer side of the scaphoid depression. Behind and external to the latter opening is the foramen ovale, which transmits the third division of the fifth or inferior maxillary nerve, the small meningeal artery, and the small petrosal nerve. On the outer side of the foramen ovale is the foramen spinosum, for the passage of the middle meningeal artery; and on the inner side of the foramen ovale, the foramen lacerum medium. The lower part of this aperture is filled up with cartilage in the recent state. On the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone is seen from without inwards, the eminence caused by the projection of the superior semicircular canal, the groove leading to the hiatus Fallopii, for the transmission of the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve; beneath it, the smaller groove, for the passage of the smaller petrosal nerve; and near the apex of the bone, the depression for the Gasserian ganglion, and the orifice of the cajrotid canal, for the passage of the internal carotid artery and carotid plexus of nerves. The Posterior Fossa, deeply concave, is the largest of the three, and situated on a lower level than either of the preceding. It is formed by the occipital, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal, and the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone; is crossed by three sutures, the petro-occipital, masto-occipital, and masto-parietal; and lodges the cerebellum, pons Varolii, and medulla oblon- gata. It is separated from the middle fossa in the median line by the basilar suture, and on each side by the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. This serves for the attachment of the tentorium cerebelli, is grooved externally for the superior petrosal sinus, and at its inner extremity pre- sents a notch, upon which rests the fifth nerve. Its circumference is bounded posteriorly by the grooves for the lateral sinuses. In the centre of this fossa is the foramen magnum, bounded on either side by a rough tubercle, which gives attachment to the odontoid ligaments ; and a little above these are seen the internal openings of the anterior condyloid foramina. In front of the foramen magnum is the basilar process, grooved for the support of the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii, and articulating on each side with the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, forming the petro-occipital suture, the anterior half of which is grooved for the inferior petrosal sinus, the posterior half being encroached upon by the foramen lacerum posterius, or jugular foramen. This foramen is partially subdivided into two parts; the posterior and larger division transmits the internal jugular vein, the anterior the eighth pair of nerves. Above the jugular foramen is the internal auditory foramen, for the auditory and facial nerves and auditory artery; behind and external to this is the slit-like opening leading into the aquaeductus vestibuli; whilst between the two latter, and near the superior border of the petrous portion, is a small triangular depression, which lodges a process of the dura mater, and occasionally transmits a small vein into the substance of the bone. Behind the foramen magnum are the inferior occipital fossae, which lodge the lateral lobes of the cerebellum, separated from one another by the internal occipital crest, which serves for the attachment of the falx cerebelli, and lodges the occipital sinuses. These fossce are surmounted, above, by the deep transverse grooves for the lodgment of the lateral sinuses. These channels, in their passage outwards, groove the occipital bone, the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, the mastoid portion of the temporal, and the occipital just behind the jugular foramen, at the back part of which they terminate. Where this sinus grooves the mastoid