NERVOUS SYSTEM. 470 them in a tubular sheath as far as their point of exit from the dura mater, where it becomes continuous with the parietal layer. The arachnoid is destitute of vessels. No nerves have as yet been traced into this membrane. T ^ The Pia Mater of the cord is exposed on the removal of the arachnoid (fig. 253). It is less vascular in structure than the pia mater of the brain, with which it is continuous, being thicker, more dense in structure, and composed of fibrous tissue, arranged in longitudinal bundles. It covers the entire surface of the cord, to which it is very intimately adherent, forming its neurilemma, and sends a process downwards into its anterior fissure, and another, extremely delicate, into the posterior fissure. It also forms a sheath for each of the filaments of the spinal nerves, and invests the nerves themselves. A longitudinal fibrous band extends along the middle line on its anterior surface, called by Haller, the linea splendens; and a somewhat similar band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is situated on each side. At the point where the cord terminates, the pia mater becomes contracted, and is continued down as a long, slender filament {Jilum terminale), which de- scends through the centre of the mass of nerves forming the cauda equina, and is blended with the impervious sheath of dura mater, on a level with the top of the sacral canal. It assists in maintaining the cord in its position during the movements of the trunk, and is, from this circumstance, called the central ligament of the spinal cord. It contains a little nervous substance, which may be traced for some distance into its upper part, and is accompanied by a small artery and vein. Structure. The pia mater of the cord, though less vascular than that which invests the brain, co'ntains a network of delicate vessels in its substance. It is also supplied with nerves, which are derived from the sympathetic, and from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. At the upper part of the cord, the pia mater presents a greyish, mottled tint, which is owing to yellowish or brown pigment cells being scattered within its tissue. The Ligamentum Denticulatum (fig. 253) is a narrow, fibrous band, situated on each side of the spinal cord, throughout its entire length, and separating the ante- rior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, having received its name from the serrated appearance which it presents. Its inner border is continuous with the pia mater, at the side of the cord. Its outer border presents a series of triangular, dentated serrations, the points of which are fixed, at intervals, to the dura mater, serving to unite together the two layers of the arachnoid membrane. These serrations are about twenty in number, on each side, the first being attached to the dura mater, opposite the margin of the foramen magnum, between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve; and the last corresponds to nearly the lower end of the cord. Its use is to support the cord in the fluid by which it is surrounded. The Spinal Cokd. The spinal Qord{medulla spinalis)is the cylindrical elongated part of the cerebro- spinal axis, which is contained in the spinal canal. Its length is usually about sixteen or seventeen inches, and its weight, when divested of its membranes and nerves, about one ounce and a half, its proportion to the encephalon being about I to 33. It does not nearly fill the canal in which it is contained, its investing membranes being separated from the surrounding walls by areolar tissue and a plexus of veins. It occupies, in the adult, the upper two-thirds of the spinal canal, extending from the foramen magnum to the lower border of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a slender filament of grey sub- stance, the Jilum terminale, which lies concealed among the leash of nerves forming the cauda equina. In the fcetus, before the third month, it extends to the bottom of the sacral canal; but, after this period, it gradually recedes from below, as the growth of the bones composing the canal is more rapid in proportion