136 OSTEOLOGY. outer surface, smooth and slightly concave, deepens the articular surface for the astragalus. Its anterior border is rough, for the attachment of ligamentous fibres. Its posterior border presents a broad and deep groove, directed obliquely down- wards and inwards; it is occasionally double, and transmits the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum muscles. Its summit is marked by a rough depression behind, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. Structure. Like that of the other long bones. Development. By three centres (fig. ill): one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the centre of the shaft about the same time as in the femur, the fifth week, and gradually extends towards either ex- tremity. The centre for the upper epiphysis appears at birth; it is flat- tened in form, and has a thin tongue- shaped process in front, which forms the tubercle. That for the lower epiphysis appears in the second year. The lower epiphysis joins the shaft at about the twentieth year, and the upper one about the twenty-fifth year. Two additional centres occa- sionally exist, one for the tongue- shaped process of the upper epiphysis, the tubercle, and one for the inner malleolus. Articulations. With three bones: the femur, fibula, and astragalus. Attachment of Muscles. To the inner tuberosity, the Semi-membra- nosus. To the outer tuberosity, the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum: to the shaft; its internal surface, the Sartorius, G-racilis, and Semi-tendinosus: to its external sur- face, the Tibialis anticus: to its poste- rior surface, the Popliteus, Soleus, Flexor longus digitorum, and Tibialis posticus: to the tubercle, the ligamentum patellae. The Fibula. The Fibula is situated at the outer side of the leg. It is the smaller of the two bones, and, in proportion to its length, the most slender of all the long bones; it is placed nearly parallel with the tibia, its upper extremity is small, placed below the level of the knee joint, and excluded from its formation; but the lower extremity inclines a little forwards, so as to be on a plane anterior to that of the upper end, projects below the tibia, and forms the outer ankle. It presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The Upper Extremity or Head, is of an irregular rounded form, presenting above a flattened articular facet, directed upwards and inwards, for articulation with a corresponding facet on the external tuberosity of the tibia. On the outer side is a thick and rough prominence, continued behind into a pointed eminence, the styloid process, which projects upwards from the posterior part of the head. The prominence above mentioned gives attachment to the tendon of the Biceps muscle, and to the long external lateral ligament of the knee, the ligament dividing this tendon into two parts. The summit of the styloid process gives attachment to the short external lateral ligament. The remaining part of the circumference III.—Plan of the Development of the Tibia. By 3 Centres.