682 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. but the lower part passes obliquely downwards and backwards, so as to be deeply placed between the converging Sterno-mastoid muscles. In the child, the trachea is smaller, more deeply placed, and more moveable than in the adult. In fat, or short-necked people, or in those in whom the muscles of the neck are prominently developed, the trachea is more deeply placed than in the opposite conditions. 363.—SurgicaFAnatomy of Laryngo-Tracheal Eegion. In the Infant. From these observations, it must be evident that laryngotomy is anatomically the most simple operation, can most readily be performed, and should always be preferred when particular circumstances do not render the operation of tracheotomy absolutely necessary. The operation is performed thus: The head being thrown back and steadied by an assistant, the finger is passed over the front of the neck, and the crico-thyroid depression felt for. A vertical incision is then made through the skin, in the middle line over this spot, and the crico-thyroid membrane is divided to a sufficient extent to allow of the introduction of a large curved tube. The crico-thyroid artery is the only vessel of importance crossing this space. If it should be of large size, its division might produce troublesome heemorrhage. Laryngo-tracheotomy, anatomically considered, is more dangerous than tracheotomy, on account of the small interspace between the cricoid cartilage and the isthmus of the thyroid gland: the communicating branches between the superior thyroid veins, which cover this spot, can hardly fail to be divided; and the greatest care will not, in some cases, prevent the division of part of the thyroid isthmus. If either of these structures is divided, the haemorrhage will be considerable. Tracheotomy below the isthmus of the thyroid gland is performed thus: The head being thrown back and steadied by an assistant, an incision, an inch and a half or two inches in length, is made through the skin, in the median line of the neck, from a little below the cricoid cartilage, to the top of the sternum. The anterior jugular veins should be avoided, by keeping exactly in the median line; the deep fascia should then be divided, and the contiguous borders of the Sterno-hyoid muscles separated from each other. A quantity of loose areolar tissue, containing the inferior thyroid veins, must then be separated from the front of the trachea, with the handle of the scalpel; and when the trachea is well exposed, it should be opened by inserting the knife into it, dividing two or three of its rings from below upwards. It is a matter of the greatest importance to restrain, if possible, all haemorrhage before the tube is opened; otherwise, blood may pass into the trachea, and suffocate the patient.