DESCENT OF THE TESTES. 7^3 Descent of the Testes. The testes, at an early period of foetal life, are placed at the back part of the abdominal cavity, behind the peritoneum, in front and a little below the kidneys. The anterior surface and sides are invested by peritoneum; the blood-vessels and efferent ducts are connected with their posterior surface; and attached to the lower end is a peculiar structure, the gubernaculum testis, which is said to assist in their descent. The Gubernaculum Testis attains its full development between the fifth and sixth months; it is a conical-shaped cord, attached above to the lower end of the epididymis, and below to the bottom of the scrotum. It is placed behind the peritoneum, lying upon the front of the Psoas muscle, and completely filling the inguinal canal. It consists of a soft transparent areolar tissue within, which often appears partially hollow, surrounded by a layer of striped muscular fibres, the Cremaster, which ascends upon this body to be attached to the testis. According to Mr. Curling, the gubernaculum, as well as these muscular fibres, divides below into three processes: the external and broadest process is connected with Poupart's ligament in the inguinal canal; the middle process descends along the inguinal canal to the bottom of the scrotum, where it joins the dartos; the internal one is firmly attached to the os pubis and sheath of the Rectus muscle; some fibres, moreover, are reflected from the Internal oblique on to the front of the gubernaculum. Up to the fifth month, the testis is situated in the lumbar region, covered in front and at the sides by peritoneum, and supported in its position by a fold of this membrane, the mesorchium'. between the fifth and sixth months the testis descends to the iliac fossa, the gubernaculum at the same time becoming shortened: during the seventh month, it enters the internal abdominal ring, a small pouch of peritoneum {processus vaginalis) preceding the testis in its course through the canal. By the end of the eighth month, the testis has descended into the scrotum, carrying down with it a lengthened pouch of perito- neum, which communicates by its upper extremity with the peritoneal cavity. Just before birth, the upper part of this pouch becomes closed, and this obliteration extends gradually downwards to within a short distance of the testis. The process of peritoneum surrounding the testis, which is now entirely cut off from the general peritoneal cavity, constitutes the tunica vaginalis. Mr. Curling considers that the descent of the testis is effected by means of the muscular fibres of the gubernaculum; those fibres which proceed from Poupart's ligament and the Obliquus internus are said to guide the organ into the inguinal canal; those attached to the pubis draw it below the external abdominal ring; and those attached to the bottom of the scrotum complete its descent. During the descent of the organ these muscular fibres become gradually everted, forming a muscular layer, which becomes placed external to the process of the peritoneum, surrounding the gland and spermatic cord, and constitutes the Cremaster. In the female, a small cord, corresponding to the gubernaculum in the male, descends to the inguinal region, and ultimately forms the round ligament of the uterus. A pouch of peritoneum accompanies it along the inguinal canal, analogous to the processus vaginalis in the male; it is called the canal of Nuck.