246 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. Nerves, The Erector spinas and its subdivisions in tlie dorsal region are sup- plied by the external posterior branches of the lumbar and dorsal nerves. The Cervicalis ascendens, Transversalis colli, Trachelo-mastoid, and Spinalis cervicis, by the external posterior branches of the cervical nerves; the Complexus, by the internal posterior branches of the cervical nerves, the sub-occipital and great occipital. Dissection. The muscles of the preceding layer must be removed by dividing and turning aside the Complexus; then detach the Spinalis and Longissimus dorsi from their attach- ments, and divide the Erector spinoe at its connection below to the sacral and lumbar spines, and turn it outwards. The muscles filling up the interval between the spinous and transverse processes are then exposed. The Semispinales muscles connect the transverse and articular processes to the spinous processes of the vertebrae, extending from the lower part of the dorsal region to the upper part of the cervical. The semispinalis dorsi consists of a thin, narrow, fleshy fasciculus, interposed between tendons of considerable length. It arises by a series of small tendons from the transverse processes of the lower dorsal vertebrge, from the tenth or eleventh to the fifth or sixth; and is inserted, by five or six tendons, into the spinous processes of the upper four dorsal and lower two cervical vertebrse. The semispinalis colli, thicker than the preceding, arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy points from the transverse processes of the upper four dorsal vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the cervical vertebrae (lower four); and is inserted into the spinous processes of four cervical vertebras, from the axis to the fifth cervical. The fasciculus connected with the axis is the largest, and chiefly muscular in structure. Relations. By their superficial surface, from below upwards, with the Longis- simus dorsi. Spinalis dorsi, Splenius, Complexus, the profunda cervicis and princeps cervicis arteries, and the posterior cervical plexus of nerves. By their deep surface, with the Multifidus spinae. The Multifidus Spince consists of a number of fleshy and tendinous fasciculi, which fill up the groove on either side of the spinous processes of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis. In the sacral region, these fasciculi arise from the back of the sacrum, as low as the fourth sacral foramen; and from the aponeurosis of origin of the Erector spinse. In the iliac region, from the inner surface of the posterior superior spine, and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. In the lumbar and cervical regions, they arise from the articular processes; and in the dorsal region, from the transverse processes. Each fasciculus, ascending obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the lamina and whole length of the spinous process of the vertebra above. These fasciculi vary in length; the most superficial, the longest, pass from one vertebra to the third or fourth above; those next in order pass from one vertebra to the second or third above; whilst the deepest connect two contiguous vertebrge. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Longissimus dorsi. Spinalis dorsi, Semispinalis dorsi, and Semispinalis colli. By its deep surface, with the lamina and spinous processes of the vertebrse, and with the Rotatores spinse in the dorsal region. The Rotatores Spince are found only in the dorsal region of the spine, beneath the Multifidus spinae; they are eleven in number on each side. Each muscle. Fifth Later. Semispinalis Dorsi, Semispinalis Colli. Multifidus Spinae. Rotatores Spince. Supra-spinales. Extensor Coccygis. Inter-transversales. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor. Obliquus Superior. Obliquus Inferior. Inter-spinales.