^55 OF THE ABDOMEN. the situation where its sheath is deficient, is separated from the peritoneum by the transversalis fascia. The Pyramidalis is a small muscle, triangular in form, placed at the lower part of the abdomen, in front of the Rectus, and contained in the same sheath with that muscle. It arises by tendinous fibres from the front of the os pubis and the anterior pubic ligament; the fleshy portion of the muscle passes upwards, diminishing in size as it ascends, and terminates by a pointed extremity, which is inserted into the linea alba, midway between the umbilicus and the os pubis. This muscle is sometimes found wanting on one or both sides; the lower end of the E-ectus then becomes proportionally increased in size. Occasionally it has been found double on one side, or the muscles of the two sides are of unequal size. Sometimes its length exceeds that stated above. The Quadratus Lumhorum is situated in the lumbar region, it is irregularly quadrilateral in shape, broader below than above, and consists of two portions. One portion arises by aponeurotic fibres from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and the adjacent portion of the crest of the ilium for about two inches, and is inserted into the lower border of the last rib, about half its length, and by four small tendons, into the apices of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth lumbar vertebrae. The other portion of the muscle, situated in front of the pre- ceding, arises from the upper borders of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth lumbar vertebra and is inserted into the lower margin of the last rib. The Quadratus lumborum is contained in a sheath formed by the anterior and middle lamellae of the vertebral aponeurosis of the Transversalis. Nerves. The abdominal muscles are supplied by the lower intercostal, ilio-hypo- gastric, and ilio-inguinal nerves. The Quadratus lumborum, receives filaments from the anterior branches of the lumbar nerves. In the description of the abdominal muscles, mention has frequently been made of the linea alba, lineae semilunares, linese transvers^e; when the dissection of these muscles is completed, these structures should be examined. The linea alba is a tendinous raphe or cord seen along the middle line of the abdomen, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes. It is placed between the inner borders of the Recti muscles, and formed by the blending of the aponeuroses of the Oblique and Transversalis muscles. It is narrow below, corresponding to the narrow interval existing between the Recti, but broader above, as these muscles diverge from one another in their ascent, becoming of considerable breadth after great distension of the abdomen from pregnancy or ascites. It presents numerous apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves; the largest of these is the umbilicus, which in the foetus transmits the umbilical vessels, but in the adult is obliterated, the cicatrix being stronger than the neigh- bouring parts; hence the occurrence of umbilical hernia in the adult above the umbilicus, whilst in the foetus it occurs at the umbilicus. The linea alba is in relation, in front, with the integument to which it is adherent, especially at the umbilicus; behind, it is separated from the peritoneum by the transversalis fascia; and below, by the urachus, and the bladder, when that organ is distended. The linece semilunares are two curved tendinous lines, placed one on each side of the linea alba. Each corresponds with the outer border of the Rectus muscle, extends from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the pubes, and is formed I by the aponeurosis of the Internal oblique at its point of division to enclose the ! Rectus. The linecB transverscB are three or four narrow transverse lines which intersect the Rectus muscle as already mentioned, they connect the lineee semilunares with the linea alba. Actions. The abdominal muscles perform a three-fold action. When the pelvis and thorax are fixed, they can compress the abdominal viscera, by constricting the cavity of the abdomen, in which action they are materially assisted by the descent of the diaphragm. By these means, the foetus is expelled from the uterus, the faeces from the rectum, the urine from the bladder, and the ingesta from the stomach in vomiting.