39 TEMPORAL BONE. lodges the internal jugular vein, and with a similar depression on the margin of the occipital bone, forms the foramen lacerum posterius. 5. A small foramen for the passage of Jacobson's nerve (the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharjngeal). This is seen in front of the bony ridge dividing the carotid canal from the jugular fossa. 6. A small foramen seen on the inner wall of the jugular fossa, for the- entrance of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric (Arnold's) nerve. 7. Behind the jugular fossa is a smooth square-shaped facet, the jugular surface; it is covered with cartilage in the recent state, and articulates with the jugular process of the occipital bone. 8. The vaginal process, a very broad sheath-like plate of bone, which extends from the carotid canal to the mastoid process; it divides behind into two laminag, receiving between them the 9th point for examination, the styloid process; a long sharp spine, about an inch in length, continuous with the vaginal process, between the laminae of which it is received, and directed downwards, forwards, and inwards. It varies in size and shape; and sometimes consists of several pieces united by cartilage. It affords attachment to three muscles, the Stylo-pharyngeus, Stylo-glossus, and Stylo-hyoideus; and two ligaments, the stylo- hyoid, and stylo-maxillary. 10. The stylo-mastoid foramen, a rather large orifice, placed between the styloid and mastoid processes; it is the termination of the aquseductus Fallopii, and transmits the facial nerve, and stylo-mastoid artery. II. The auricular fissure, situated between the vaginal and mastoid processes, for the exit of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve. Borders. The superior, the longest, is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus, and has attached to it the tentorium cerebelli: at its inner extremity is a semilunar notch, upon which reclines the fifth nerve. The posterior border is intermediate in length between the superior and the anterior. Its inner half is marked by a groove, which, when completed by its articulation with the occipital, forms the channel for the inferior petrosal sinus. Its outer half presents a deep excavation the jugular fossa, which, with a similar notch on the occipital, forms the fora- men lacerum posterius. A projecting eminence of bone occasionally stands out from the centre of the notch, and divides the foramen into two parts. The ante- rior border is divided into two parts, an outer, joined to the squamous portion by a suture, the remains of which are distinct; an inner, free, articulating with the spinous process of the sphenoid. At the angle of junction of these two parts, are seen two canals, separated from one another by a thin plate of bone, the processus cochleariformis; they both lead into the tympanum, the upper one transmitting 33.- the Tensor tympani muscle, the lower one the Eustachian tube. Structure. The squamous portion is like that of the other cranial bones, the mastoid portion cellular, and the petrous portion dense and hard. Development (fig. 33). The tem- poral bone is developed by ybwr centres, exclusive of those for the internal ear and the ossicula, viz.: — one for the squamous portion including the zy- goma, one for the petrous and mastoid parts, one for the styloid, and one for the auditory process (tympanic bone). The first traces of the development of this bone appear in the squamous por- tion, about the time when osseous matter is deposited in the vertebrae; the auditory process succeeds next; it consists of an elliptical portion of bone, forming about three-fourths of a circle, the deficiency being above; it 1 fo'^-styioi'd pvuc. Development of Temporal Bone. By four Centres. 1 for SijMtvwu, / for Audiivn jjTi>eess foT PetToits 2f Jfcustoid