656 OKGANS OF DIGESTION. albuminous. These bodies are very large after digestion is completed, in well-fed animals, and especially in those fed upon albuminous diet. In starved animals, they disappear altogether. The splenic artery is remarkable for its large size, in proportion to the size of the organ; and also for its tortuous course. It divides into from four to six branches, which enter the hilus of the organ, and ramify throughout its substance (fig. 350)) receiving sheaths from an involution of the external fibrous tunic, the same sheaths also investing the nerves and veins. Each branch runs in the transverse axis of the organ, from within outwards, diminishing in size during its transit, and giving ofi', in its passage, smaller branches, some of which pass to the anterior, others to the posterior part; these ultimately terminate in the proper substance of the spleen, in small tufts or pencils of capillary vessels, which lie in direct contact with the pulp. Each of the larger branches of the arteries supplies chiefly that region of the organ in which the branch ramifies, having no anasto- mosis with the majority of the other branches. The capillaries^ supported by the minute trabeculee, traverse the pulp in all directions, and terminate either directly in the veins, or open into lacunar spaces, from which the veins originate. The veins are of large size, as compared with the size of the organ; and their distribution is limited, like that of the arteries, to the supply of a particular part of the gland; they are much larger and more numerous than the arteries. They originate, 1st, as continuations of the capillaries of the arteries; 2nd, by inter- cellular spaces communicating with each other; 3rd, by distinct Cfecal pouches. By their junction they form from four to six branches, which emerge from the hilus; and these uniting, form the splenic vein, the largest branch of the vena port^e. The lymphatics form a deep and superficial set; they pass through the lymphatic glands at the hilus, and terminate in the thoracic duct. The nerves are derived from branches of the right and left semilunar ganglia, and right pneumogastric nerve.