MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 712 They vary, however, in size, not only in different individuals, but also in the same individual on the two sides. Their upper surface is in contact with the base of the bladder, extending from near the termination of the ureters to the base of the prostate gland. Their under surface rests upon the rectum, from which they are separated by the recto-vesical fascia. Their posterior extremities diverge back- wards and outwards from each other. Their anterior extremities are pointed, and converge towards the base of the prostate gland, where each joins with the corresponding vas deferens to form the ejaculatory duct. Along the inner margin of each vesicula runs the enlarged and convoluted vas deferens. The inner border of the vesicula, and the corresponding vas deferens, form the lateral boundary of a triangular space, limited behind by the recto-vesical peritoneal fold; the portion of the bladder included in this space rests on the rectum, and corresponds with the trigonum vesicas in its interior. Structure. Each vesicula consists of a single tube, coiled upon itself, and giving off several irregular cgecal diverticula; the separate coils, as well as the diverticula, being connected together by fibrous tissue. When uncoiled, this tube is about the diameter of a quill, and varies in length from four to six inches; it terminates posteriorly in a cul-de-sac, but its anterior extremity becomes constricted into a narrow straight duct, which joins on its inner side with the corresponding vas deferens, and forms the ejaculatory duct. The ejaculatory ducts, two in number, one on each side, are formed by the junction of the duct of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens. Each duct is about three quarters of an inch in length; it commences at the base of the prostate, and runs forwards and upwards in a canal in its substance, and along the side of the utriculus, to terminate by a separate slit-like orifice upon or within the margins of the sinus pocularis. The ducts diminish in size, and converge towards their termination. Structure. The vesiculae seminales are composed of three coats; external or fihro-cellular, derived from the recto-vesical fascia; middle or fibrous coo!^, which is firm, dense, fibrous in structure, somewhat elastic, and contains, according to E. H. Weber, muscular fibres; and an internal or mucous coat, which is pale, of a whitish-brown colour, and presents a delicate reticular structure, like that seen in the gall-bladder, but the meshes are finer. It is lined by squamous epithelium. The coats of the ejaculatory ducts are extremely thin, the outer fibrous layer being almost entirely lost after their entrance into the prostate, a thin layer of muscular fibres and the mucous membrane forming the only constituent parts of these tubes. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the vesiculae seminales are derived from the inferior vesical and middle haemorrhoidal. The veins and lymphatics accompany the arteries. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. The Semen is a thick whitish fluid, having a peculiar odour. It consists of a fluid, the liquor seminis, and solid particles, the seminal granules, and sperma- tozoa. The liquor seminis is transparent, colourless, and of an albuminous compo- sition, containing particles of squamous and columnar epithelium, with oil globules and granular matter floating in it, besides the above-mentioned solid elements. The seminal granules are round finely-granular corpuscles, measuring ■4o^o'o^^ of an inch in diameter. The spermatozoa, or spermatic filaments, are the essential agents in producing fecundation. They are minute elongated particles, consisting of a small flattened oval extremity or body, and a long slender caudal filament. A small circular spot is observed in the centre of the body, and at its point of connection with the tail there is frequently seen a projecting rim or collar. The movements of these bodies are remarkable, and consist of a lashing or undulatory motion of the tail.