OSTEOLOGY. 6o Vomer. Sap -Mo^ai lo^' The Vomer. The Vomer is a single bone, situated vertically at the back part of the nasal fossee, forming part of the septum of the nose. It is thin, somewhat like a ploughshare in form; but it varies in different individuals, being frequently bent to one or the other side; it presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The lateral surfaces are smooth, marked with small furrows for the lodgment of blood-vessels, and by a groove on each side, sometimes a canal, the naso-palatine, which runs obliquely downwards and forwards to the intermaxillary suture between the two ante- rior palatine canals; it trans- mits the naso-palatine nerve. The superior border, the thick- est, presents a deep groove, bounded on each side by a horizontal projecting alaof bone; the groove receives the rostrum of the sphenoid, whilst the alae are over- lapped and retained by lamina3 (the vaginal processes) which project from the under surface of the body of the sphenoid at the base of the pterygoid processes. At the front of the groove a fissure is left for the transmission of blood-vessels to the substance of the bone. The inferior border, the longest, is broad and uneven in front, where it articulates with the two superior maxillary bones; thin and sharp behind where it joins with the palate bones. The upper half of the ante- rior border usually consists of two lamin£e of bone, between which is received the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, the lower half consisting of a single rough edge, also occasionally channelled, which is united to the triangular cartilage of the nose. The posterior border is free, concave, and se|)arates the nasal fossas behind. It is thick and bifid above, thin below. Development. The vomer at an early period consists of two laminas separated by a very considerable interval, and enclosing between them a plate of cartilage which is prolonged forwards to form the remainder of the septum. Ossification commences in it at about the same period as in the vertebrae, the coalescence of the lamin£e taking place from behind forwards, but is not complete until after puberty. Articulations. With six bones; two of the cranium, the sphenoid and ethmoid; and four of the face, the two superior maxillary, the two palate bones, and with the cartilage of the septum. The vomer has no muscles attached to it. The Inferior Maxillary Bone. The Inferior Maxillary Bone, the largest and strongest bone of the face, serves for the reception of the inferior teeth. It consists of a curved horizontal portion, the body, and of two perpendicular portions, the rami, which join the former nearly at right angles behind. The Horizontal portion, or body (fig. 56), is convex in its general outline, and curved somewhat like a horse-shoe. It presents for examination two surfaces and two borders. The external surface is convex from side to side, concave from above downwards. In the median line is a vertical ridge, the symphysis; it extends from the upper to the lower border of the bone, and indicates the point of junction of the two pieces of which the bone is composed at an early period of life. The lower part of the ridge terminates in a prominent triangular eminence, the mental process. On either side of the symphysis, just below the roots of the incisor teeth, is a depression, the incisive fossa, for the attachment of the Levator