ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. in size, and terminates in a tendon which forms the lower two-thirds of its struc- ture. This tendon passes through a canal on the outer side of the annular liga- ment, runs through a groove in the os trapezium, converted into a canal by a fibrous sheath, lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index-finger. The radial artery lies between the tendon of this muscle and the Supinator longus, and may easily be secured in this situation. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the deep fascia and the integument. By its deep surface, with the Flexor sublimis digitorum, Flexor longus pollicis, and wrist joint. By its outer border, with the Pronator radii teres, and the radial vessels. By its inner border, with the Palmaris longus above, the median nerve below. The Palmaris Longus is a slender fusiform muscle, lying on the inner side of the preceding. It arises from the inner condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the deep fascia, and inter-muscular septa, between it and the adjacent muscles. It terminates in a slender flattened tendon, which is inserted into the annular ligament, expanding to end in the palmar fascia. Variations. This muscle is often absent; when present, it presents many varieties. Its fleshy belly is sometimes very long, or it may occupy the middle of the muscle, which is tendinous at either extremity ; or it may be muscular at its lower extremity, its upper part being tendinous. Occasionally there is a second Palmaris longus placed on the inner side of the preceding, terminating, below, partly in the annular ligament or fascia, and partly in the small muscles of the little finger. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the deep fascia. By its posterior surface, with the Flexor digitorum sublimis. Internally, with the Flexor carpi ulnaris. Externally, with the Flexor carpi radialis. The Flexor Carpi Ulnaris lies along the ulnar side of the fore-arm. It arises by two heads, separated by a tendinous arch, beneath which passes the ulnar nerve, and posterior ulnar recurrent artery. One head arises from the inner condyle of the humerus, by the common tendon; the other, from the inner margin of the olecranon, by an aponeurosis from the upper two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna, and from the inter-muscular septum between it and the Flexor sublimis digitorum. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which occupies the anterior part of the lower half of the muscle, and is inserted into the pisiform bone, some fibres being prolonged to the annular ligament and base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The ulnar artery lies on the outer side of the tendon of this muscle, in the lower two-thirds of the fore-arm; the tendon forming a guide to the opera- tion of including this vessel in a ligature in this situation. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the deep fascia, with which it is intimately connected for a considerable extent. By its posterior surface, with the Flexor sublimis, the Flexor profundus, the Pronator quadratus, and the ulnar vessels and nerve. By its outer or radial border, with the Palmaris longus, above; with the ulnar vessels and nerve, below. The Flexor Digitorum Sublimis is placed beneath the preceding muscles; these therefore require to be removed before its attachment is brought into view. It is the largest of the muscles of the superficial layer, and arises by three heads. One from the internal condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint, and from the inter-muscular septum common to it and the preceding muscles. The second head arises from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna, above the ulnar origin of the Pronator radii teres. The third head arises from the oblique line of the radius, extending from the tubercle to the insertion of the Pronator radii teres. The fibres pass vertically downwards, forming a broad and thick muscle, which divides into four tendons about the middle of the fore-arm; as these tendons pass beneath the annular ligament into the palm of the handj they are arranged in pairs, the anterior pair corresponding to the middle and ring fingers; the posterior pair to the index and little fingers. The tendons diverge from one another as they pass onwards, T 2