OCCIPITAL BONE. 27 anterior segment of the foramen. On the inner border of each condyle is a rough tubercle for the attachment of the ligaments (check) which connect this bone with the odontoid process of the axis; whilst external to them is a rough tubercular prominence, the transverse or jugular process, (the representative of the trans- verse process of a vertebra) channelled in front by a deep notch, which forms part of the jugular foramen. The under surface of this process affords attach- ment to the Rectus capitis lateralis; its upper or cerebral surface presents a deep groove, which lodges part of the lateral sinus, whilst its prominent extremity is marked by a quadrilateral rough surface, covered with cartilage in the fresh state, and articulating with a similar surface on the petrous portion of the temporal bone. On the outer side of each condyle, near its fore part, is a foramen, the anterior condyloid; it is directed downwards, outwards, and forwards, and trans- mits the hypoglossal nerve. This foramen is sometimes double. Behind each condyle is a fossa,* perforated at the bottom by a foramen, the posterior condyloid, for the transmission of a vein to the lateral sinus. In front of the foramen magnum is a strong quadrilateral plate of bone, the basilar process, wider behind than in front; its under surface, which is rough, presenting in the median line a tubercular ridge, the pharyngeal spine, for the attachment of the tendinous raphe and Superior constrictor of the pharynx; and on each side of it, rough depressions for the attachment of the Recti capitis antici, major and minor. The Internal or Cerebral Surface (fig. 23) is deeply concave. The posterior 23.—Occipital Bone. Inner Surface. * This fossa presents many variations in size. It is usually shallow; and the foramen small; occasionally wanting, on one, or both sides. Sometimes both fossa and foramen are large, but confined to one side only; more rarely, the fossa and foramen are very large on both sides.