SPINAL NERVES. 558 the fourth supplies the corresponding sides of the third and fourth toes, and receives a communicating branch from the external plantar nerve. It will be observed, that the distribution of these branches is precisely similar to that of the median. Each digital nerve gives off cutaneous and articular filaments; and opposite the last phalanx sends a dorsal branch, which supplies the structures round the nail, the continuation of the nerve being distributed to the ball of the toe. The external plantar nerve, the smaller of the two, completes the nervous supply to the structures of the foot, being distributed to the little toe and one half of the fourth, as well as to some of the deep muscles. It passes obliquely forwards with the external plantar artery to the outer side of the foot, lying between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Flexor accessorius; and, in the interval between the former muscle and Abductor minimi digiti, divides into a superficial and a deep branch. Before its division, it supplies the Flexor accessorius and Abductor minimi digiti. The superficial branch separates into two digital nerves: one, the smaller of the two, supplies the outer side of the little toe, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the two interosseous muscles of the fourth metatarsal space; the other, and larger digital branch, supplies the adjoining sides of the fourth and fifth toes, and communicates with the internal plantar nerve. The deep or muscular branch accompanies the external plantar artery into the deep part of the sole of the foot, beneath the tendons of the Flexor muscles and Adductor pollicis, and supplies all the Interossei (except those in the fourth metatarsal space), the tv»^o outer Lumbricales, the Adductor pollicis, and the Transversus pedis. ^'SiQ External Popliteal gx: Peroneal Nerve, about one-half the size of the internal popliteal, descends obliquely along the outer side of the popliteal space, close to the margin of the Biceps muscle, to the fibula; and, about an inch below the head of this bone, pierces the origin of the Peroneus longus, and divides beneath this muscle into the anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves. The branches of the peroneal nerve, previous to its division, are articular and cutaneous. The articular branches, two in number, accompany the superior and inferior external articular arteries to the outer side of the knee. The upper one occasion- ally arises from the great sciatic nerve before its bifurcation. A third (recurrent) articular nerve is given off at the point of division of the peroneal nerve; it ascends with the tibial recurrent artery through the Tibialis anticus muscle to the front of the knee, which it supplies. The cutaneous branches, two or three in number, supply the integument along the back part and outer side of the leg, as far as its middle or lower part; one of these, larger than the rest, the communicans peronei, arises near the head of the fibula, crosses the external head of the Gastrocnemius to the middle of the leg, where it joins with the external saphenous. This nerve occasionally exists as a separate branch, which is continued down as far as the heel. The Anterior Tibial Nerve commences at the bifurcation of the peroneal nerve, between the fibula and upper part of the Peroneus longus, passes obliquely for- wards beneath the Extensor longus digitorum to the fore part of the interosseous membrane, and reaches the outer side of the anterior tibial artery above the middle of the leg; it then descends with the artery to the front of the ankle-joint, where it divides into an external and an internal branch. This nerve lies at first on the outer side of the anterior tibial, then in front of it, and again at its outer side at the ankle-joint. The branches of the anterior tibial, in its course through the leg, are muscular: these supply the Tibialis anticus, the Extensor longus digitorum, and Extensor proprius pollicis muscles. The external, or tarsal branch of the anterior tibial, passes outwards across the tarsus, beneath the Extensor brevis digitorum, and, having become ganglionic.