LARGE INTESTINE. 639 passes over its anterior surface and sides; its posterior surface being connected by loose areolar tissue with the iliac fascia. Occasionally, it is almost completely surrounded by peritoneum, which forms a distinct fold, the meso-ca3Cum connecting its back part with the iliac fossa. This fold allows the c^cum considerable freedom of movement. Attached to its lower and back part, is the appendix vermiformis, a long, narrow, worm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengthened caicum found in all the mammalia, except the ourang-outang and wombat. The appendix varies from three to six inches in length, its average diameter being about equal to that of a goose-quill. It is usually directed upwards and inwards behind the caecum, coiled upon itself, and terminates in a blunt point, being retained 339.—The Csecum and Colon laid open to shew the Ilio-Csecal Valve. in its position by a fold of peritoneum, which sometimes forms a mesentery for it. Its canal is small, and communicates v»?'ith the cascum by an orifice which is some- times guarded with an incomplete valve. Its coats are thick, and its mucous lining furnished with a large number of solitary glands. Ileo-C(Bcal Valve. The lower end of the ileum terminates at the inner and back part of the large intestine, opposite the junction of the ccecum with the colon. At this point, the mucous membrane forms two valvular folds, which pro- ject into the large intestine, and are separated from each other by a narrow elongate aperture. This is the ileo-c£ecal valve {valvula Bauhini). Each fold is semilunar in form. The upper one, nearly horizontal in direction, is attached by its convex border to the point of junction of the ileum with the colon; the lower segment, being connected at the point of junction of the ileum with the caecum. Their concave margins are free, project into the intestine, separated from one another by a narrow slit-like aperture, transversely directed. At each end of this aperture, the two segments of the valve coalesce, and are continued, as a narrow membranous ridge, around the canal of the intestine for a short distance, forming the freena, or retinacula of the valve. The left end of this aperture, is rounded: the right end is narrow and pointed. Each segment of the valve is formed of a reduplication of the mucous mem- brane, and of the circular muscular fibres of the intestine, the longitudinal fibres and peritoneum being continued uninterruptedly across from one intestine to the