ARTERIES. 402 before its exit from the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and passes forwards near the base of the bladder, on the upper part of the prostate gland, to the perinoeum, where it gives off those branches usually derived from the pudic artery. The deficiency most fre- quently met with, is that in which the internal pudic ends as the artery of the bulb; the artery of the corpus cavernosum and arteria dorsalis penis being derived from the accessory pudic. Or the pudic may terminate as the superficial perinseal, the artery of the bulb being derived, with the other two branches, from the accessory vessel. The relation of the accessory pudic to the prostate gland and urethra, is of the greatest interest in a surgical point of view, as this vessel is in danger of being wounded in the lateral operation of lithotomy. Branches. Within the pelvis, the internal pudic gives off several small branches, which supply the muscles, sacral nerves, and viscera in this cavity. In the perincBum the following branches are given off. Inferior or external lissmorrhoidal. Artery of the bulb. Superficial perinseal. Artery of the corpus cavernosum. Transverse perinseal. • Dorsal artery of the penis.. The external hcemorrhoidal are two or three small arteries, which arise from the internal pudic as it passes above the tuberosity of the ischium. Crossing the ischio-rectal fossa, they are distributed to the muscles and integument of the anal region. The superficial perincEal artery supplies the scrotum, and muscles and integu- ment of the perinseum. It arises from the internal pudic, in front of the preceding branches, and piercing the lower border of the deep perineeal fascia, runs across the Transversus perinsei, and through the triangular space between the Accelerator urinse and Erector penis, both of which it supplies, and is finally distributed to the skin of the scrotum and dartos. In its passage through the perinseum it lies beneath the superficial perinaeal fascia. The transverse perinceal is a small branch which arises either from the internal pudic, or from the superficial perinseal artery as it crosses the Transversus perinsei muscle. Piercing the lower border of the deep perinaeal fascia, it runs trans- versely inwards along the cutaneous surface of the Transversus perinasi muscle, which it supplies, as well as the structures between the anus and bulb of the urethra. The artery of the bulb is a large but very short vessel, arising from the internal pudic between the two layers of the deep perinseal fascia, and passing nearly transversely inwards, pierces the bulb of the urethra, in which it ramifies. It gives off a small branch which descends to supply Cowper's gland. This artery is of considerable importance in a surgical point of view, as it is in danger of being wounded in the lateral operation of lithotomy, an accident usually attended with severe and alarming haemorrhage. This vessel is sometimes very small, occasionally wanting, or even double. It sometimes arises from the internal pudic earlier than usual, and crosses the perinaeum to reach the back part of the bulb. In such a case the vessel could hardly fail to be wounded in the performance of the lateral operation for lithotomy. If, on the contrary, it should arise from an accessory pudic, it lies more forward than usual, and is out of danger in the operation. The artery of the corpus cavernosum, one of the terminal branches of the internal pudic, arises from that vessel while it is situated between the crus penis and the ramus of the pubes; piercing the crus penis obliquely, it runs forwards in the corpus cavernosum by the side of the septum pectiniforme, to which its branches are distributed. The dorsal artery of the penis ascends between the crus and pubic symphysis, and piercing the suspensory ligament, runs forward on the dorsum of the penis to the glans, where it divides into two branches, which supply the glans and prepuce. On the dorsum of the penis, it lies immediately beneath the integument, parallel with the dorsal vein and corresponding artery of the opposite side. It supplies the integument and fibrous sheath of the corpus cavernosum.