OF THE HAND. 287 Belations, By its superficial surface, with the internal portion of the palmar fascia, and the Palmaris brevis. By its deep surface, with the Flexor ossis metacarpi. The Opponens Minimi Digiti (fig. 173), is of a triangular form, and placed immediately beneath the preceding muscles. It arises from the unciform process of the unciform bone, and contiguous portion of the annular ligament; its fibres pass downwards and inwards, to be inserted into the whole length of the meta- carpal bone of the little finger, along its ulnar margin. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Flexor brevis, and Abductor minimi digiti. By its deep surface, with the interossei muscles in the fifth metacarpal space, the metacarpal bone, and the Flexor tendons of the little finger. Nerves. All the muscles of this group are supplied by the ulnar nerve. Actions. The actions of the muscles of the little finger are expressed in their names. The Palmaris brevis corrugates the skin on the inner side of the palm of the hand. Middle Palmar Region. Lumbricales. Interossei Palmares. Interossei Dorsales. The Lumbricales are four small fleshy fasciculi, accessories to the deep Flexor muscle. They arise by fleshy fibres from the tendons of the deep Flexor: the first and second, from the radial side and palmar surface of the tendons of the index and middle fingers; the third, from the contiguous sides of the tendons of the middle and ring fingers; and the fourth, from the contiguous sides of the tendons of the ring and little fingers. They pass forwards to the radial side of the cor- responding fingers, and opposite the metacarpo-phalangealarticulations; each tendon terminates in a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the tendinous expansion i78.-The Dorsal Interossei of Left Hand, from the Extensor communis digitorum, which covers the dorsal aspect of each finger. The Interossei Muscles are so named from occupying the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are divided into two sets, a dorsal and palmar; the former are four in number, one in each meta- carpal space; the latter, three in number, lie upon the metacarpal bones. The Dorsal Interossei are four in number, larger than the palmar, and occupy the intervals between the meta- carpal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, arising by two heads from > the adjacent sides of the metacarpal bones, but more extensively from that side of the metacarpal bone, which corresponds to the side of the finger in which the muscle is inserted. They are inserted into the base of the first phalanges, and into the aponeurosis of the common Extensor tendon. Between the double origin of each of these muscles is a narrow triangular interval, through which passes a perforating branch from the deep palmar arch. The First Dorsal Interosseous muscle, or Abductor indicis, is larger than the others, and lies in the interval between the thumb and index-finger. It is flat.