ARTICULATIONS. 200 3. The articulation between the astragalus and scaphoid is an enarthrodial joint; the rounded head of the astragalus being received into the concavity formed by the posterior surface of the scaphoid, the anterior articulating surface of the calcaneum, and the upper surface of the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which fills up the triangular interval between these bones. The only ligament of this joint is the superior astragalo-scaphoid, a broad band of ligamentous fibres, which passes obliquely forwards from the neck of the astragalus, to the superior surface of the scaphoid bone. It is thin and weak in texture, and covered by the Extensor tendons. The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid supplies the place of an inferior liga- "^^Tlie Synovial Membrane which lines the joint, is continued forwards from the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. This articulation permits of considerable mobility; but its feebleness is such as to occasionally allow of dislocation of the astragalus. . , . /> i ^ The Synovial Membranes (fig. 146) found in the articulations of the tarsus, are four in number: 07?e for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation; a second for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid and astragalo-scaphoid articulations; a third for the calcaneo-cuboid articulation; and a fourth for the articulations between the scaphoid and the three cuneiform, the three cuneiform with each other, the external cuneiform with the cuboid, and the middle and external cuneiform with the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones. The prolongation which lines the metatarsal bones, passes forwards between the external and middle cuneiform bones. A small synovial membrane is sometimes found between the contiguous surfaces of the scaphoid and cuboid bones. Actions. The movements permitted between the bones of the first row, the astragalus and os calcis, are limited to a gliding upon each other from before backwards, and from side to side. The gliding movement which takes place between the bones of the second row, is very slight, the articulation between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones being more moveable than those of the cuneiform with each other and with the cuboid. The movement which takes place between the two rows, is more extensive, and consists in a sort of rotation, by means of which the sole of the foot may be slightly flexed, and extended, or carried inwards and outwards.