500,. NERVOUS SYSTEM. as far back as the posterior edge of the vermiform process, and the posterior or semilunar lobe, which passes from the termination of the preceding to the great horizontal fissure. Upon the under surface of either hemisphere there are five lobes, separated by sulci; these are from before backwards; the flocculus or sub-peduncular lobe, a prominent tuft, situated behind and below the middle peduncle of the cerebellum; its surface is composed of grey matter, subdivided into a few small laminjie: it is sometimes called the pneumogastric lobule, from being situated behind the pneu- mogastric nerve. The amygdala or tonsil is situated on either side of the great median fissure or valley, and projects into the fourth ventricle. The digastric lobe is situated on the outside of the tonsil, being connected in part with the pyramid. Behind the digastric is the slender lobe, which is connected with the back part of the pyramid and the commissura brevis: and more posteriorly is the inferior posterior lobe, which also joins the commissura brevis in the valley. Fourth Ventricle. The fourth ventricle, or ventricle of the cerebellum, is the space between the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons in front, and the cerebellum behind. It is lozenge-shaped, being contracted above and below, and broadest across its central part. It is bounded laterally by the. processus e cerebello ad testes above, and by the diverging posterior pyramids and restiform bodies below. The roo/is arched; it is formed by the valve of Vieussens and the under surface of the cerebellum, which presents in this situation four small eminences or lobules, two occupying the median line, the nodulus and uvula, the remaining two, the amygdala, being placed on either side of the uvula. The anterior boundary, or floor, is formed by the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons. In the median line is seen the posterior median fissure; it becomes gradually obliterated above, and terminates below in the point of the calamus scriptorius, formed by the convergence of the posterior pyramids. At this point is the orifice of a short canal terminating in a cul-de-sac, the remains of the canal which extends in foetal life through the centre of the cord. On each side of the median fissure are two slightly convex longitudinal eminences, the fasciculi teretes; they extend the entire length of the floor, being indistinct below and of a greyish colour, but well marked and whitish above. Each eminence consists of fibres derived from the lateral tract and restiform body, which ascend to the cerebrum. Opposite the crus cerebelli, on the outer side of the fasciculi teretes, is a small eminence of dark grey substance, which presents a bluish tint through the thin stratum covering it; this is called the locus cceruleus; and a thin streak of the same colour continued up from this on either side of the fasciculi teretes, as far as the top of the ventricle, is called the tcenia violacea. The lower part of the floor of the ventricle is crossed by several white transverse lines, linece transversce; they emerge from the posterior median fissure; some enter the crus cerebelli, others enter the roots of origin of the auditory nerve, whilst some pass upwards and outwards on the floor of the ventricle. The lining membrane of the fourth ventricle is continuous with that of the third, through the aqueduct of Sylvius, and its cavity communicates below with the sub-arachnoid space of the brain and cord through an aperture in the layer of pia mater extending between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Laterally, this membrane is reflected outwards a short distance between the cerebellum and medulla. The choroid, plexuses of the fourth ventricle are two in number; they are delicate vascular fringes, which project into the ventricle on each side, passing from the point of the inferior vermiform process to the outer margin of the resti- form bodies. The grey matter in the floor of the ventricle consists of a tolerably thick stratum, continuous below with the grey commissure of the cord, and extending