ARTERIES. 42C)- Peculiarities in Origin. The peroneal artery may arise three inches below the Popliteiis, or from the posterior tibial high up, or even from the popliteal. Its Size is more frequently increased than diminished, either reinforcing the posterior tibial by its junction with it, or by altogether taking the place of the posterior tibial, in the lower part of the leg and foot, the latter vessel only existing as a short muscular branch. In those rare cases, where the peroneal artery is smaller than usual, a branch from the posterior tibial supplies its place, and a branch from the anterior tibial compensates for the diminished anterior peroneal artery. In one case, the peroneal artery has been found entirely wanting. The anterior peroneal is sometimes enlarged, and takes the place of the dorsal artery of the foot. The peroneal artery, in its course, gives off branches to the Soleus, Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus poUicis, and Peronei muscles, and a nutrient branch to the fibula. The Anterior Peroneal pierces the interosseous membrane, about two inches above the outer malleolus, to reach the fore part of the leg, and, passing down beneath the Peroneus tertius to the outer ankle, ramifies on the front and outer side of the tarsus, anastomosing with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries. The nutritious artery of the tibia arises from the posterior tibial near its origin, and after supplying a few muscular branches, enters the nutritious canal of that bone, which it traverses obliquely from above downwards. This is the largest nutrient artery of bone in the body. The muscular branches are distributed to the Soleus and deep muscles along the back of the leg. The communicating branch to the peroneal runs transversely across the back of the tibia, about two inches above its lower end, passing beneath the Flexor longus pollicis. The internal calcanean consists of several large branches, which arise from the posterior tibial just before its division ; they are distribute'd to the fat and integument behind the ten do Achillis and about the heel, and to the muscles on the inner side of the sole, anastomosing with the peroneal and internal malleolar arteries. The Internal Plantar Artery, much smaller than the external, passes forwards along the inner side of the foot. It is at first situated above the Abductor pollicis, and then between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum, both of which it supplies. At the base of the first metatarsal bone, where it has become much diminished in size, it passes along the inner border of the great toe, inosculating with its digital branches. The External Plantar Artery, much larger than the internal, passes obliquely outwards and forw^ards to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It then turns obliquely inwards to the interval between the bases of the first and second meta- tarsal bones, where it inosculates with the communicating branch from the dorsalis pedis artery, thus completing the plantar arch. As this artery passes outwards it is at first placed between the os calcis and Abductor pollicis, and then between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Flexor accessorius; and as it passes forwards to the base of the little toe, it lies more superficially between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Abductor minimi digiti, covered by the deep fascia and integument. The remaining portion of the vessel is deeply situated: it extends from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe to the back part of the first interosseous space, and forms the plantar arch; it is convex forwards, lies upon the Interossei muscles, opposite the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones, and is covered by the Adductor pollicis, the flexor tendons of the toes, and the Lumbricales. Branches. The plantar arch, besides distributing numerous branches to the muscles, integument, and fascias in the sole, gives off" the following branches: Posterior perforating. Digital—Anterior perforating. The Posterior Perforating are three small branches, which ascend through the back part of the three outer interosseous spaces, between the heads of the Dorsal