5i6 CRANIAL NERVES. The Ophthalmic, Lenticular, or Ciliary Ganglion (fig. 276), is a small, quadrangular, flattened ganglion, of a reddish-grey colour, and about the size of a pin's head, situated at the back part of the orbit between the optic nerve and the External rectus muscle, generally lying on the outer side of the ophthalmic artery. It is enclosed in a quantity of loose fat, which makes its dissection somewhat difficult. Its branches of communication, or its roots, are three, all of which enter its posterior border. One, the long root, is derived from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and joins its superior angle. Another branch, the short root, is a short thick nerve, occasionally divided into two parts; it is derived from that branch of the third nerve which supplies the Inferior oblique muscle, and is connected with the inferior angle of the ganglion. A third branch, the sympathetic root, is a slender filament from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. This is occasionally blended with the long root, and sometimes passes to the ganglion separately. According to Tiedemann, this ganglion receives a filament of communication from the spheno-palatine ganglion. Its branches of distribution are the short ciliary nerves. These consist of from ten to twelve delicate filaments, which arise from the fore part of the ganglion in two bundles, connected with its superior and inferior angles; the upper bundle consisting of four filaments, and the lower of six or seven. They run forwards with the ciliary arteries in a wavy course, one set above and the other below the optic nerve, pierce the sclerotic at the back part of the globe, pass forwards in delicate grooves on its inner surface, and are distributed to the ciliary muscle and iris. A small filament is described by Tiedemann, penetrating the optic nerve with the arteria centralis retinas. Superior Maxillary Nerve (fig. 280). The superior maxillary, or second division of the fifth, is a sensory nerve. It is intermediate, both in position and size, between the ophthalmic and inferior maxillary. It commences at the middle of the Gasserian ganglion as a flattened plexiform band, passes forwards through the foramen rotundum, where it becomes more cylindrical in form, and firmer in texture. It then crosses the spheno- maxillary fossa, traverses the infra-orbital canal in the floor of the orbit, and ap- pears upon the face at the infra-orbital foramen. At its termination, the nerve lies beneath the Levator labii superioris muscle, and divides into a leash of branches, which spread out upon the side of the nose, the lower eyelid, and upper lip, joining with filaments of the facial nerve. The branches of this nerve may be divided into three groups: I. Those given off in the spheno-maxillary fossa. 2. Those in the infra-orbital canal. 3. Those on the face. ( Orbital. Spheno-maxillary fossae Spheno-palatine. I Posterior dental. Infra-orbital canal . Anterior dental. ( Palpebral. On the face ....•<! Nasal. ( Labial. The Orbital brayich asises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, enters the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides at the back of that cavity into two branches, temporal and malar. The temporal branch runs in a groove along the outer wall of the orbit (in the malar bone), receives a branch of communication from the lachrymal, and, passing through a foramen in the malar bone, enters the temporal fossa. It ascends between the bone and substance of the Temporal muscle, pierces this muscle and the temporal fascia about an inch above the zygoma, and is distributed to the