226 MUSCLES AND FASCIJE. Relations. By its anterior surface^ with the Sterno-hyoid, Omo-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid. By its posterior surface, from below upwards, with the trachea, vena innominata, common carotid (and on tlie right side the arteria innominata), the thyroid gland and its vessels, and the lower part of the larynx. The middle thyroid vein lies along its inner border, an important relation to be remembered in the operation of tracheotomy. The Thyro-Hyoid is small quadrilateral muscle, appearing like a continuation of the Sterno-thyroid. It arises from the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, and passes vertically upwards to be inserted into the lower border of the body, and greater cornu of the hyoid bone. Relations. By its external surface, with the Sterno-hyoid and Omo-hyoid muscles. By its internal surface, with the thyroid cartilage, the thyro-hyoid membrane, and the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve. The Omo-hyoid passes across the side of the neck, from the scapula to the hyoid bone. It consists of two fleshy bellies, united by a central tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, and occasionally from the transverse ligament which crosses the supra-scapular notch; its extent of attachment to the scapula varying from a few lines to an inch. From this origin, the posterior belly forms a flat, narrow fasciculus, which inclines forwards across the lower part of the neck; behind the Sterno-mastoid muscle, where it becomes tendinous, it changes its direction, forming an obtuse angle, and ascends almost vertically upwards, close to the outer border of the Sterno-hyoid, to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides, just external to the insertion of the Sterno-hyoid. The tendon of this muscle, which much varies in its length and form in different subjects, is held in its position by a process of the deep cervical fascia, which includes it in a sheath, and is prolonged down, to be attached to the cartilage of the first rib. It is by this means that the angular form of the muscle is maintained. This muscle subdivides each of the two large triangles at the side of the neck into two smaller triangles. The two posterior ones being the posterior superior or sub-occipital, and the posterior inferior or subclavian ; the two anterior, the anterior superior or superior carotid, and the anterior inferior or inferior carotid triangle. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Trapezius, Subclavius, the clavicle, the Sterno-mastoid, deep cervical fascia, Platysma, and integument. By its deep surface, with the Scaleni, brachial plexus, sheath of the common carotid artery, and internal jugular vein, the descendens noni nerve, Sterno-thyroid and Thyro-hyoid muscles. Nerves. The Thyro-hyoid is supplied by the hypo-glossal; the other muscles of this group by branches from the loop of communication between the descendens and communicans noni. Actions. These muscles depress the larynx and hyoid bone, after they have been drawn up with the pharynx in the act of deglutition. The Omo-hyoid muscles not only depress the hyoid bone, but carry it backwards, and to one or the other side. These muscles also are tensors of the cervical fascia. The Thyro- hyoid may act as an elevator of the thyroid cartilage, when the hyoid bone ascends, drawing upwards the thyroid cartilage behind the os hyoides. 3. Supra-Hyoid Region (figs. 153, 154). Elevators of the Os Hyoides — Depressors of the Lower Jaw. Digastric. Mylo-Hyoid. Stylo-Hyoid. Genio-Hyoid. Dissection. To dissect these muscles, a block should be placed beneath the back of the neck, and the head drawn backwards, and retained in that position. On the removal of the deep fascia, the muscles are at once exposed.