705 PENIS. The mucous membrane covering the glans penis contains no sebaceous glands; but projecting from its free surface are a number of small, highly sensitive papillae. The penis is composed of a mass of erectile tissue, enclosed in three cylindrical fibrous compartments. Of these, two, the corpora cavernosa, are placed side by side along the upper part of the organ; the third, or corpus spongiosum, encloses the urethra, and is placed below. The Corpora Cavernosa form the chief part of the body of the penis. They consist of two fibrous cylindrical tubes, placed side by side, and intimately con- nected along the median line for their anterior three-fourths, their posterior fourth being separated to form the two crura, by which the penis is connected to the rami of the pubes. Each crus commences by a thick-pointed process in front of the tuberosity of the ischium; and, near its junction with its fellow, presents a slight enlargement, named, by Kobelt, the bulb of the corpus cavernosum. Just beyond this point they become constricted,'and retain an equal diameter to their anterior extremity, where they form a single rounded end, which is received into a fossa in the base of the glans penis. A median groove on the upper surface lodges the dorsal vein of the penis, and the groove on the under surface receives the corpus spongiosum. The root of the penis is connected to the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament. Structure. Each corpus cavernosum consists of a strong fibrous envelope, enclosing a fibrous reticular structure, containing erectile tissue in its meshes. It is separated from its fellow by an incomplete fibrous septum. The fibrous investment is extremely dense, of considerable thickness, and highly elastic; it not only invests the surface of the organ, but sends ofi" numerous fibrous bands {trabeculce) from its inner surface, as well as from the surface of the septum, which cross its interior in all directions, subdividing it into a number of separate compartments, which present a spongy structure, in which the erectile tissue is contained. The trabecular structure fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its com- ponent fibres are larger and stronger round the circumference than at the centre of the corpora cavernosa; they are also thicker behind than in front. The inter- spaces, on the contrary, are larger at the centre than at the circumference, their long diameter being directed transversely; and they are largest anteriorly. They are lined by a layer of squamous epithelium. The fibrous septum forms an imperfect partition between the two corpora caver- nosa; it is thick and complete behind; but in front it is incomplete, and consists of a number of vertical bands of fibrous tissue, which are arranged like the teeth of a comb, hence the name, septum pectiniforme; these bands extend between the dorsal and urethral surface of the corpora cavernosa. The fibrous investment and septum consist of longitudinal bands of white fibrous tissue, with numerous elastic and muscular fibres. The trabeculag also consist of white fibrous tissue, elastic fibres, and plain muscular fibres, and enclose arteries and nerves. The Corpus Spongiosum encloses the urethra, and is situated in the groove on the under surface of the corpora cavernosa. It commences posteriorly in front of the deep perinasal fascia, between the diverging crura of the corpora cavernosa, where it forms a rounded enlargement, the bulb; and terminates, anteriorly, in another expansion, the glans penis, which overlays the anterior rounded extremity of the corpora cavernosa; its central portion, or body, is cylindrical, and tapers slightly from behind forwards. The bulb varies in size in different subjects; it receives a fibrous investment from the anterior layer of the deep perinteal fascia, and is surrounded by the Accelerator urinae muscle. The urethra enters the bulb nearer its upper than its lower surface, being surrounded by a layer of erectile tissue, named, by Kobelt, the colliculi bulbi, a thin prolongation of which is continued backwards round the membranous and prostatic portions of the canal to the neck of the bladder, z z