653 SPLEEN. portion to the entire body, being as I to 700. The size of the spleen is increased during and after digestion, and varies considerably, according to the state of nutrition of the body, being large in highly fed, and small in starved animals. In intermittent and other fevers, it becomes much enlarged, weighing occasionally from 18 to 20 pounds. Structure. The spleen is invested by two coats; an external serous, and an internal fibrous elastic coat, j The external, or serous coat, is derived from the peritoneum; it is thin, smooth, and in the human subject intimately adherent to the fibrous elastic coat. It I invests almost the entire organ; being reflected from it, at the hilus, on to the great end of the stomach, and at the upper end of the organ on to the Dia- j^hragm. The fibrous elastic coat forms the framework of the spleen. It invests the I exterior of the organ, and at the hilus is reflected inwards upon the vessels in the j form of vaginas or sheaths. From these sheaths, as well as from the inner surface 1 of the fibro-elastic coat, numerous small fibrous bands, trahecul(B (fig. 347), are I given ofiT in all directions; these uniting, constitute the areolar framework of the spleen. The proper coat, the sheaths of the vessels, and the trabeculas, consist of 347-—Transverse Section of the Spleen, showing the Trabecular Tissue and the Splenic Vein and its Branches. a dense mesh of white and yellow elastic fibrous tissues, the latter considerably predominating. It is owing to the presence of this tissue, that the spleen possesses a considerable amount of elasticity, admirably adapted for the very con- siderable variations in size that it presents under certain circumstances. In some of the mammalia, in addition to the usual constituents of this tunic, there are found numerous pale, flattened, spindle-shaped, nucleated fibres, like unstriped muscular fibres. It is probably owing to this structure, that the spleen possesses, when acted upon by the galvanic current, faint traces of contractility. The proper substance of the spleen occupies the interspaces of the areolar framework of the organ; it is a soft, pulpy mass, of a dark reddish-brown colour, consisting of colourless and coloured elements. The colourless elements consist of granular matter; nuclei, about the size of the red blood-discs, homogeneous or granular in structure; and nucleated vesicles in small numbers. These elements form, probably, one-half or two-thirds of the