194 ARTICULATIONS. anterior extremity of the internal cartilage; its thickness varies considerably in different subjects. The Coronary Ligaments consist of numerous short fibrous bands, which con- nect the convex border of the semi-lunar cartilages with the circumference of the head of the tibia, and with the other ligaments surrounding the joint. The Synovial Membrane of the knee-joint is the largest and most extensive in the body. Commencing at the upper border of the patella, it forms a large cul- de-sac beneath the Extensor tendon of the thigh: this is sometimes replaced by a synovial bursa interposed between the tendon and the front of the femur, which in some subjects communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, by an orifice of variable size. On each side of the patella, the synovial membrane extends beneath the aponeurosis of the Vasti muscles, and more especially beneath that of the Vastus internus; and, beneath the patella, it is separated from the anterior ligament by a considerable quantity of adipose tissue. In this situation, it sends off a triangular-shaped prolongation, containing a few ligamentous fibres, which extends from the anterior part of the joint below the patella, to the front of the inter-condyloid notch. This fold has been termed the ligameyitum mucosum. The ligamenta alaria consist of two fringe-like folds, which extend from the sides of the ligamentum mucosum, upwards and outwards, to the sides of the patella. The synovial membrane invests the semi-lunar fibro-cartilages, and on the back part of the external one forms a cul-de-sac between the groove on its surface and the tendon of the Popliteus; it is continued to the articular surface of the tibia; surrounds the crucial ligaments, and the inner surface of the ligaments which enclose the joint; lastly, it approaches the condyles of the femur, and from them is continued on to the lower part of the front of the shaft. The pouch of synovial membrane between the Extensor tendon and front of the femur is supported, during the movements of the knee, by a small muscle, the Sub-cruraeus, which is inserted into it. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the anastomotic branch of the femoral, articular branches of the popliteal, and recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. The Nerves are derived from the obturator, anterior crural, and external and internal popliteal. Actions. The chief movements of this joint are flexion and extension; but it is also capable of performing some slight rotatory movement. During flexion, the articular surfaces of the tibia, covered by their inter-articular cartilages, glide backwards upon the condyles of the femur, the lateral, posterior, and crucial liga- ments are relaxed, the ligamentum patellee is put upon the stretch, the patella filling up the vacuity in front of the joint between the femur and tibia. In extension, the tibia and inter-articular cartilages glide forwards upon the femur; all the ligaments are stretched, with the exception of the ligamentum patellge, which is relaxed, and admits of considerable lateral movement. The movement of rotation is permitted when the knee is semi-flexed, rotation outwards being most extensive. 3. Articulation between the Tibia and Fibula. The articulations between the tibia and fibula are effected by ligaments which connect both extremities, as well as the shaft of these bones. They may, con- sequently, be subdivided into three sets. I. The Superior Tibio-Fibular articula- tion. 2. The Middle Tibio-Fibular articulation. 3. The Inferior Tibio-Fibular articulation. I. Superior Tibio-Fibular Articulation. This articulation is an arthrodial joint. The contiguous surfaces of the bones