28 OSTEOLOGY. or occipital part is divided hj a crucial ridge into four fossae. The two superior the smaller, receive the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, and present slight emi- nences and depressions corresponding to their convolutions. The two inferior, which receive the lateral lobes of the cerebellum, are larger than the former, and comparatively smooth; both are marked by slight grooves for the lodgment of arteries. At the point of meeting of the four divisions of the crucial ridge is an eminence, the internal occipital protuberance. It nearly corresponds to that on the outer surface, and is perforated by one or more large vascular foramina. From this eminence, the superior division of the crucial ridge, runs upwards to the superior angle of the bone; it presents occasionally a deep groove for the superior longitudinal sinus, the margins of which give attachment to the falx cerebri. The inferior division, the internal occipital crest, runs to the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, on the edge of which it becomes gradually lost: this ridge, which is bifurcated below, serves for the attachment of the falx cere- belli. The transverse grooves pass outwards to the lateral angles; they are deeply channelled, for the lodgment of the lateral sinuses, their prominent margins affording attachment to the tentorium cerebelli.* At the point of meeting of these grooves is a depression, the 'Torcular Heropliili',f placed a little to one or the other side of the internal occipital protuberance. More anteriorly is the foramen magnum, and on each side of it, but nearer its anterior than its posterior part, the internal openings of the anterior condyloid foramina; the in- ternal openings of the posterior condyloid foramina being a little external and posterior to them, protected by a small arch of bone. In front of the foramen magnum is the basilar process, presenting a shallow depression, the basilar groove, which slopes from behind, upwards and forwards, and supports the medulla ob- longata; and on each side of the basilar process is a narrow channel, which, when united with a similar channel on the petrous portion of the temporal bone, forms a groove, which lodges the inferior petrosal sinus. Angles. The superior angle is received into the interval between the posterior superior angles of the two parietal bones: it corresponds with that part of the skull in the foetus which is called the posterior fontanelle. The inferior angle is represented by the square-shaped surface of the basilar process. At an early period of life, a layer of cartilage separates this part of the bone from the sphenoid; but in the adult, the union between them is osseous. The lateral angles correspond to the outer ends of the transverse grooves, and are received into the interval between the posterior inferior angles of the parietal and the mastoid portion of the temporal. Borders. The superior extends on each side from the superior to the lateral angle, is deeply serarated for articulation with the parietal bone, and forms by this union the lambdoid suture. The inferior border extends from the lateral to the inferior angle; its upper half is rough, and articulates with the mastoid por- tion of the temporal, forming the masto-occipital suture: the inferior half articu- lates with the petrous portion of the temporal, forming the petro-occipital suture: these two portions are separated from one another by the jugular process. In front of this process is a deep notch, which, with a similar one on the petrous portion of the temporal, forms the foramen lacerum posterius. This notch is occasionally subdivided into two parts by a small process of bone, and presents an aperture at its upper part, the internal opening of the posterior condyloid foramen. Structure. The occipital bone consists of two compact lamina3, called the outer Usually one of the transverse grooves is deeper and broader than the other; this seems in nearly equal proportion on the two sides, occasionally both grooves are of equal depth and breadth, or both equally indistinct. The broader of the two transverse grooves is nearly always continuous with the vertical groove for the superior longitudinal sinus, and occupies the corresponding side of the median line. t The columns of blood coming in difierent directions were supposed to be pressed to- gether at this point.