248 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. into tlie rough surface beneath the inferior curved line, nearly as far as the foramen magnum, nearer to the middle line than the preceding. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Complexus. By its deep surface, with the posterior occipito-atloid ligament. The Obliquus Inferior, the largest of the two oblique muscles, arises from the apex of the spinous process of the axis, and passes almost horizontally outwards, to be inserted into the apex of the transverse process of the atlas. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Complexus, and is crossed by the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. By its deep surface, with the vertebral artery, and posterior occipito-atloid ligament. The Obliquus Superior, narrow below, wide and expanded above, arises by tendinous fibres from the upper part of the transverse process of the atlas, joining with the insertion of the preceding, and, passing obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the occipital bone, between the two curved lines, external to the Complexus. Between the two oblique muscles and the Rectus posticus major, a triangular interval exists, in which is seen the vertebral artery, and the posterior branch of the sub-occipital nerve. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Complexus and Trachelo-mastoid. By its deep surface, with the posterior occipito-atloid ligament. Nerves. The Semi-spinalis dorsi and Rotatores spinee are supplied by the internal posterior branches of the dorsal nerves. The Semispinalis colli. Supra- ; spinales, and Inter-spinales, by the internal posterior branches of the cervical nerves. The Inter-transversales, by the internal posterior branches of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar nerves. And the Multifidus spinae, by the same, with the \ addition of the internal posterior branches of the sacral nerves. The Recti and i Obliqui muscles are all supplied by the sub-occipital and great occipital nerves. t Actions. The Erector spinas, comprising the Sacro-lumbalis, with its accessory 1 muscles, the Longissimus dorsi and Spinalis dorsi, serves, as its name implies, to i maintain the spine in the erect posture; it also serves to bend the trunk backwards, li when it is required to counterbalance the influence of any weight at the front of p the body, as, for instance, when a heavy weight is suspended from the neck, or ti when there is any great abdominal development, as in pregnant women or in ab- \ dominal dropsy; the peculiar gait under such circumstances depends upon the spine 1 t( being drawn backwards, by the conterbalancing action of the Erector spinse muscles. ! ei The continuation of these muscles upwards to the neck and head, steady and pre- \ i serve the upright position of these several parts. If the Sacro-lumbalis and ;' ol Longissimus dorsi of one side act, they serve to draw down the chest and spine to ; t the corresponding side. The Musculus accessorius, taking its fixed point from the | st cervical vertebrte, elevates those ribs to which it is attached. The Multifidus spinae \ c( act successively upon the different segments of the spine; thus, the lateral parts ! i of the sacrum furnish a fixed point from which the fasciculi of this muscle act : ft upon the lumbar region; these then become the fixed points for the fasciculi moving ! I the dorsal region, and so on throughout the entire length of the spine; it is by \ \ the successive contraction and relaxation of the separate fasciculi of this and other i aj muscles, that the spine preserves the erect posture without the fatigue that would 1 i] necessarily have existed had this movement been accomplished by the action of a j | single muscle. The Multifidus spinse, besides preserving the erect position of the | jI spine, serves to rotate it, so that the front of the trunk is turned to the side | l{ opposite to that from which the muscle acts, this muscle being assisted in its action j |i by the Obliquus externus abdominis. The Complexi, the analogues of the Multi- j ^ fidus spinas in the neck, draw the head directly backwards; if one muscle acts, it , | draws the head to one side, and rotates it so that the face is turned to the opposite j ^ side. The Rectus capitis posticus minor and the Superior oblique draw the head j backwards; and the latter, from the obliquity in the direction of its fibres, may j ^ turn the face to the opposite side. The Rectus capitis posticus major and the | ^ Obliquus inferior, rotate the atlas, and, with it, the cranium round the odontoid I process, and turn the face to the same side. ! |f 1