SMALL INTESTINES. 635 Simple follicles are found in greater or less number over the entire surface of the mucous membrane; they are most numerous near the pyloric end of the stomach, and especially distinct in early life. The epithelium lining the mucous membrane of the stomach and its alveoli is of the columnar variety. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the stomach are, the gastric, pyloric and right gastro-epiploic branches of the hepatic, the left gastro-epiploic and vasa brevia from the splenic. They supply the muscular coat, ramify in the submucous coat, and are finally distributed to the mucous membrane. The vei7is accompany the arteries, and terminate in the splenic and portal veins. The lymphatics are numerous; they consist of a superficial and deep set, which pass through the lym- phatic glands found along the two curvatures of the organ. The nerves are, the terminal branches of the right and left pneumogastric, the former being distributed upon the back, and the latter upon the front part of the organ. Branches from the sympathetic also supply the organ. The Small Intestines. The small intestine is that part of the alimentary canal in which the chyme is mixed with the bile, the pancreatic juice, and the secretions of the various glands imbedded in the mucous membrane of the intestines, and where the separation of the nutritive principles of the food, the chyle, is effected: this constitutes chyli- fication. The small intestine is a convoluted tube, about twenty feet in length, which gra- dually diminishes in size from its commencement to its termination. It is contained in the central and lower parts of the abdominal and pelvic cavities, surrounded above and at the sides by the large intestine; in relation, in front, with the great omentum and abdominal parietes; and connected to the spine by a fold of peri- toneum, the mesentery. The small intestine is divisible into three portions: the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The duodenum has received its name from being about equal in length to the breadth of twelve fingers (eight or ten inches). It is the shortest, the widest, and the most fixed^part of the small intestine; it has no mesentery, and is only partially covered by the peritoneum. Its course presents a remarkable curve, somewhat like a horse-shoe in form; the convexity being directed towards the right, and the concavity to the left, embracing the head of the pancreas. Commencing at the pylorus, it ascends obliquely upwards and backwards to the under surface of the liver; it then descends in front of the right kidney, and passes nearly transversely across the front of the spine, terminating in the jejunum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. Hence the duodenum has been divided into three por- tions : ascending, descending, and transverse. The first, or ascending portion, about two inches in length, is free, moveable, and nearly completely invested by the peritoneum. It is in relation, above and in front, with the liver and neck of the gall-bladder; behind, with the right border of the lesser omentum, the hepatic artery and duct, and vena portse. This por- tion of the intestine is usually found stained with bile, especially on its anterior surface. The second, or descending portion, about three inches in length, is firmly fixed by the peritoneum and pancreas. It passes from the neck of the gall-bladder vertically downwards, in front of the right kidney, as far as the third lumbar vertebra. It is covered by peritoneum only on its anterior surface. It is in relation, in front, with the right arch of the colon and meso-colon; behind, with the front of the right kidney; at its inner side is the head of the pancreas, and the common choledic duct. The common bile and pancreatic ducts perforate the inner side of this portion of the intestine obliquely, a little below its middle. The third, or transverse portion, the longest and narrowest part of the duodenum, passes across the front of the spine, ascending from the third to the second lumbar vertebra, and terminating in the jejunum on the left side of this bone. In front,