544 SPINAL NERVES. lower border, passes down between the superficial and deep layer of muscles, to the middle of the fore-arm. Considerably diminished in size, it descends on the interosseous membrane, beneath the Extensor secundi internodii pollicis, to the back of the carpus, where it presents a gangliform enlargement, from which filaments are distributed to the ligaments and articulations of the carpus. It supplies all the muscles of the radial and posterior brachial regions, excepting the Anconeus, Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radialis longior. Dorsal Nerves. The dorsal nerves are twelve in number on each side. The first appears between the first and second dorsal vertebrae, and the last between the last dorsal and first lumbar. The roots of origin of the dorsal nerves are few in number, of small size, and vary but slightly from the second to the last. Both roots are very slender; the posterior ones exceeding in thickness those of the anterior only in a slight degree. These roots gradually increase in length from above downwards, and remain in contact with the spinal cord for a distance equal to the height of, at least, two vertebrse, in the lower part of the dorsal region. They then join in the inter- vertebral foramen, and, at their exit, divide into two branches, a posterior, or dorsal, and an anterior, or intercostal branch. The first and last dorsal nerves are exceptions to these characters. The posterior branches of the dorsal nerves, which are smaller than the intercostal, pass backwards between the transverse processes, and divide into external and internal branches. The external branches increase in size from above downwards. They pass through the Longissimus dorsi, corresponding to the cellular interval between it and the Sacro-lumbalis, supplying these muscles, as well as those by which they are continued upwards to the head, and the Levatores costarum; the five or six lower ones giving ofi* cutaneous filaments. The internal branches of the six upper nerves pass inwards to the interval between the Multifidus spinas, and Semi-spinalis dorsi muscles, which they supply; then, piercing the origin of the Rhomboidei and Trapezius, become cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes. The internal branches of the six lower nerves are distributed to the Multifidus spinas, without giving ofi* any cutaneous filaments. The cutaneous branches of the dorsal nerves are twelve in number, the six upper being derived from the internal branches, and the six lower from the ex- ternal branches. The former pierce the Rhomboid and Trapezius muscles, close to the spinous processes, and ramify in the integument. They are frequently furnished with gangliform enlargements. The six lower cutaneous branches pierce the Serratus posticus inferior, and Latissimus dorsi, in a line with the angles of the ribs. Intercostal Nerves. The intercostal nerves (anterior branches of the dorsal nerves), are twelve in number on each side. They are distributed to the parietes of the thorax and abdomen, separately from each other, without being joined in a plexus, in which respect they differ from all the other spinal nerves. Each nerve is con- nected with the adjoining ganglia of the sympathetic by one or two filaments. The intercostal nerves may be divided into two sets, from the difference they present in their distribution. The six upper, with the exception of the first, are limited in their distribution to the parietes of the chest. The six lower supply the parietes of the chest and abdomen. Upper Intercostal Nerves. The upper intercostal nerves pass forwards in the intercostal spaces with the intercostal vessels, lying below the veins and artery. At the back of the chest,