354 ARTERIES. to the carotid foramen in tlie petrous portion of the temporal bone. After ascend- ing in it for a short distance, it passes forwards and inwards through the carotid canal, and, ascending a little by the side of the sella Turcica, curves upwards by the anterior clinoid process, where it pierces the dura mater, and divides into its terminal branches. This vessel supplies the anterior part of the brain, the eye, and its appendages. Its size, in the adult, is equal to that of the external carotid. In the child, it is larger than that vessel. It is remarkable for the number of curvatures that it presents in different parts of its course. In its cervical portion it occasionally pre- sents one or two flexures near the base of the skull, whilst through the rest of its extent it describes a double curvature, which resembles the italic letter f placed horizontally oo. These curvatures most probably diminish the velocity of the current of blood, by increasing the extent of surface over which it moves, and adding to the amount of impediment produced from friction. In considering the course and relations of this vessel, it may be conveniently divided into four por- tions, a cervical, petrous, cavernous, and cerebral. Cervical Portion. This portion of the internal carotid at its commencement is very superficial, being contained in the superior carotid triangle, on the same level but behind the external carotid, overlapped by the Sterno-mastoid, and covered by the Platysma, deep fascia, and integument; it then passes beneath the parotid gland, being crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and the external carotid and occipital arteries. Higher up, it is separated from the external carotid by the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and pharyngeal branch of the vagus. It is in relation, behind^ with the Rectus anticus major, the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and superior laryngeal nerve; externally,with, the internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve; internally, with the pharynx, tonsil, and ascending pharyngeal artery. Petrous Portion. When the internal carotid artery enters the canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, it first ascends a short distance, then curves forwards and inwards, and again ascends as it leaves the canal to enter the cavity of the skull. In this canal, the artery lies at first anterior to the tympanum, from which it is separated by a thin bony lamella, which is cribriform in the young subject, and often absorbed in old age. It is separated from the bony wall of the carotid canal by a prolongation of dura mater, and is surrounded by fila- ments of the carotid plexus. Cavernous Portion. The internal carotid artery, in this part of its course, at first ascends to the posterior clinoid process, then passes forwards by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, being situated on the inner wall of the cavernous sinus, in relation, externally, with the sixth nerve, and covered by the lining membrane of the sinus. The third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves are placed on the outer wall of the sinus, being separated from its cavity by the lining membrane. Cerebral Portion. On the inner side of the anterior clinoid process the internal carotid curves upwards, perforates the dura mater bounding the sinus, and is received into a sheath of the arachnoid. This portion of the artery is on the outer side of the optic nerve; it lies at the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius, having the third nerve externally. Peculiarities. The length of the internal carotid varies according to the length of the neck, and also according to the point of bifurcation of the common carotid. Its origin sometimes takes place from the arch of the aorta; in such rare instances, this vessel was placed nearer the middle line of the neck than the external carotid, as far upwards as the larynx, when the latter vessel crossed the internal carotid. Tlie course of the vessel, in- stead of being straight, may be very tortuous. A few instances are recorded in which this vessel was altogether absent: in one of these the common carotid ascended the neck, and gave off the usual branches of the external carotid: the cranial portion of the vessel being replaced by two branches of the internal maxillary, which entered the skull through the foramen rotundum and ovale, and joined to form a single vessel. Surgical Anatomy. The cervical part of the internal carotid is sometimes wounded by a stab or gun-shot w^ound in the neck, or even occasionally by a stab from within the