DESCENT AND COVERINGS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 741 and supports a small lymphatic gland, by which it is separated from the subserous areolar tissue and peritoneum. Its under surface is turned towards the femoral canal. The septum crurale is perforated by numerous apertures for the passage of lymphatic vessels, connecting the deep inguinal glands with those surrounding the external iliac artery. The size of the femoral canal, the degree of tension of its orifices, and, conse- quently, the degree of constriction of a hernia, varies according to the position of the limb. If the leg and thigh are extended, abducted, or everted, the femoral canal and its orifices are extremely tense from the traction on these parts by Poupart's ligament and the fascia lata, as may be ascertained by passing the finger along it. If, on the contrary, the thigh is flexed upon the pelvis, and, at the same time, adducted and rotated inwards, the femoral canal and its orifices become considerably relaxed; for this reason, the limb should always be placed in the latter position when the application of the taxis is made in attempting the reduc- tion of a femoral hernia. The septum crurale is separated from the peritoneum by a quantity of loose subserous areolar tissue. In some subjects this tissue contains a considerable amount of adipose substance, which, when protruded forwards in front of the sac of a femoral hernia, may be mistaken for a portion of omentum. Descent of the Hernia. From the preceding description, it follows, that the femoral ring must be a weak point in the abdominal wall; hence it is, that when violent or long-continued pressure is made upon the abdominal viscera, a portion of intestine may be forced into it, constituting a femoral hernia; and the larger size of this aperture in the female serves to explain the frequency of this form of hernia in women. When a portion of intestine is forced through the femoral ring, it carries before it a pouch of peritoneum, which forms what is called the hernial sac; it receives an investment from the subserous areolar tissue, and from the septum crurale, and descends vertically along the crural canal in the inner compartment of the sheath of the femoral vessels as far as the saphenous opening: at this point, it changes its course, being prevented extending further down the sheath, on account of its •greater narrowness and close contact with the vessels, and also from the close attachment of the superficial fascia and crural sheath to the lower part of the circumference of the saphenous opening; it is, consequently, directed forwards, pushing before it the cribriform fascia, and curves upwards on to the falciform process of the fascia lata and lower part of the tendon of the External oblique, being covered by the superficial fascia and integument. While the hernia is contained in the femoral canal, it is usually of small size, owing to the resisting nature of the surrounding parts; but when it has escaped from the saphenous- opening into the loose areolar tissue of the groin, it becomes considerably enlarged. The direction taken by a femoral hernia in its descent is at first downwards, then forwards and upwards; this should be borne in mind, as in the application of the taxis for the reduction of a femoral hernia, pressure should be directed precisely in the reverse order. Coverings of the Hernia, The coverings of a femoral hernia from within out- wards are peritoneum, subserous areolar tissue, the septum crurale, crural sheath, cribriform fascia, superficial fascia, and integument. Varieties of Femoral Hernia. If the intestine descends along the femoral canal only as far as the saphenous opening, and does not escape from this aperture, it is called incomplete femoral hernia. The small size of the protrusion in this form of hernia, on account of the firm and resisting nature of the canal in which it is contained, renders it rai exceedingly dangerous variety of the disease, from the extreme difiSculty of detecting the existence of the swelling, especially in corpulent subjects. The coverings of an incomplete femoral hernia would be, from without inwards, integument, superficial fascia, falciform process of fascia lata, fascia propria, septum crurale, subserous cellular tissue, and peritoneum. When, how- ever, the hernial tumour protrudes through the saphenous opening, and directs