525 EIGHTH FAIR. Its branches of distribution are, one to the fenestra rotunda, one to the fenestra ovalis, and one to the lining membrane of the Eustachian tube and tympanum. Its branches of communication are three, and occupy separate grooves on the surface of the promontory. One of these arches forwards and downwards to the carotid canal to join the carotid plexus. A second runs vertically upwards to join the greater superficial petrosal nerve, as it lies in the hiatus Fallopii. The third branch runs upwards and forwards towards the anterior surface of the petrous bone, and passes through a small aperture in the sphenoid and temporal bones, to the exterior of the skull, where it joins the otic ganglion. This nerve, in its course through the temporal bone, passes by the ganglionic enlargement of the facial, and has a connecting filament with it. The branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve are the carotid, pharyngeal, mus- cular, tonsillitic, and lingual. The carotid branches descend along the trunk of the internal carotid artery as far as its point of bifurcation, communicating with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric, and with branches of the sympathetic. The 'pharyngeal branches are three or four filaments which unite opposite the Middle constrictor of the pharynx with the pharyngeal branches of the pneumo- gastric, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves, to form the pharyngeal plexus, branches from which perforate the muscular coat of the pharynx to supply the mucous membrane. The muscular branches are distributed to the Stylo-pharyngeus. The tonsillitic branches supply the tonsil, forming a plexus (circulus tonsillaris) around this body, from which branches are distributed to the soft palate and fauces, where they anastomose with the palatine nerves. The lingual branches are two in number; one supplies the mucous membrane covering the surface of the base of the tongue, the other perforates its substance, and supplies the mucous membrane and papillse of the side of the organ. The Spinal Accessory Nerve consists of two parts; one, the accessory part to the vagus, and the other the spinal portion. The accessory part, the smaller of the two, arises by four or five delicate filaments from the lateral tract of the cord below the roots of the vagus; these filaments may be traced to a nucleus of grey matter at the back of the medulla, below the origin of the vagus. It joins, in the jugular foramen, with the upper ganglion of the vagus by one or two filaments, and is continued into the vagus below the second ganglion. It gives branches to the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the vagus. The spinal portion, firm in texture, arises by several filaments from the lateral tract of the cord, as low down as the sixth cervical nerve; the fibres pierce the tract, and are connected with the anterior horn of the grey crescent of the cord. This portion of the nerve ascends between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and is then directed outwards to the jugular foramen, through which it passes, lying in the same sheath as the pneumogastric, separated from it by a fold of the arachnoid, and is here connected with the accessory portion. At its exit from the jugular foramen, it passes backwards behind the internal jugular vein, and descends obliquely behind the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles to the upper part of the Sterno-mastoid. It pierces this muscle, and passes obliquely across the sub- occipital triangle, to terminate in the deep surface of the Trapezius. This nerve gives several branches to the Sterno-mastoid during its passage through it, and joins in its substance with branches from the third cervical. In the sub-occipital triangle it joins with the second and third cervical nerves, assists in the formation of the cervical plexus, and occasionally of the great auricular nerve. On the front of the Trapezius, it is reinforced by branches from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, joins with the posterior branches of the spinal nerves, and is distributed to the Trapezius, some filaments ascending and others descending in its substance as far as its inferior angle.