33 FRONTAL BONE. nasal, and on either side with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. The notch is continuous below, Avith a long pointed process, the nasal spine. Vertical Portion. Internal Surface (fig. 28). Along the middle line is a vertical groove, the edges of which unite below to form a ridge, the frontal crest; the groove lodges the superior longitudinal sinus, whilst its edges afford attach- ment to the falx cerebri. The crest terminates below at a small opening, the foramen coecum, which is generally completed behind by the ethmoid. This foramen varies in size in different subjects, is usually partially, or completely impervious, lodges a process of the falx cerebri, and, when open, transmits a vein from the lining membrane of the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus. On either side of the groove, the bone is deeply concave, presenting eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the brain, and numerous small furrows for lodging the ramifications of the anterior meningeal arteries. Several small, 28.—Frontal Bone. Inner Surface. irregular fossae are also seen on either side of the groove, for the reception of the Pacchionian bodies. Horizontal Portion. External Surface. This portion of the bone consists of two thin plates, which form the vault of the orbits, separated from one another by the ethmoidal notch. Each orbital vault consists of a smooth, concave, triangular plate of bone, marked at its anterior and external part (immediately beneath the external angular process) by a shallow depression, the lachrymal fossa, for lodging the lachrymal gland; and at its anterior and internal part, by a depression (some- times a small tubercle), for the attachment of the fibrous pulley of the Superior oblique muscle. The ethmoidal notch separates the two orbital plates: it is quadrilateral; and filled up, when the bones are united, by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The margins of this notch present several half-cells, which, when united with corresponding half-cells on the upper surface of the ethmoid, complete D