701 URETHRA. subjacent tissue. It is eight or nine lines in length, and a line and a half in height; and contains, according to Kobelt, muscular and erectile tissues. When distended, it may serve to prevent the passage of the semen backwards into the bladder. On each side of the veru-montanum is a slightly depressed fossa, the prostatic sinus, the floor of which is perforated by numerous apertures, the orifices I of the prostatic ducts, the ducts of the middle lobe opening behind the crest. At the fore part of the veru-montanum, in the middle line, is a depression, the si7ms pocularis {vesicula prostatica); and upon or within its margins are the slit-like ' openings of the ejaculatory ducts. The sinus pocularis forms a cul-de-sac about j a quarter of an inch in length, which runs upwards and backwards in the sub- stance of the prostate, beneath the middle lobe; its prominent upper wall partly I forms the veru montanum. Its walls are composed of fibrous tissue, muscular fibres, and mucous membrane; and numerous small glands open on its inner surface. It has been called by Weber, who discovered it, the uterus masculinus, from its supposed homology with the female organ. The Membranous portion of the urethra extends between the apex of the I prostate, and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. It is the narrowest part of the canal (excepting the orifice), and measures three-quarters of an inch along its upper, and half an inch along its lower surface, in consequence of the bulb projecting backwards beneath it below. Its upper concave surface is placed about an inch \ beneath the pubic arch, from which it is separated by the dorsal vessels and nerves (i of the penis, and some muscular fibres. Its lower convex surface is separated ! from the rectum by a triangular space, which constitutes the perinaeum. The I membranous portion of the urethra perforates the deep perinasal fascia; and two ! layers from this membrane are prolonged round it, the one forwards, the other t backwards; it is also surrounded by the Compressor urethrse muscle. Its coverings Iare mucous membrane, elastic fibrous tissue, a thin layer of erectile tissue, muscular fibres, and a prolongation from the deep perinseal fascia. The Spongy portion is the longest part of the urethra, and is contained in the ) corpus spongiosum. It is about six inches in length, and extends from the termi- |i j nation of the membranous portion to the meatus urinarius. Commencing below II the symphysis pubis, it ascends for a short distance, and then curves downwards. {I It is narrow, and of uniform size in the body of the penis, measuring about a |i quarter of an inch in diameter; being dilated behind, within the bulb, where it \ I forms the bulbous portion; and again anteriorly, within the glans penis, fi^rming i the fossa navicularis. A cross section of this canal in the body has its diameter :i transverse; but in the glans, the diameter is directed vertically. ! The meatus urinarius is the most contracted part of the urethra; it is a vertical 3: slit, about three lines in length, bounded on each side by two small labia. The rl I inner surface of the lining membrane of the urethra, especially on the floor of the Ispongy portion, presents the orifices of numerous mucous glands and follicles, situated in the submucous tissue, and named the glands of Littre. They vary in size, and their orifices are directed forwards, so that they may easily intercept the point of a catheter in its passage along the canal. One of these lacunae, larger i than the rest, is situated on the upper surface of the fossa navicularis, about an i inch and a half from the orifice; it is called the lacuna magna. Into the bulbous \ portion are found opening the ducts of Cowper's glands. Structure. The urethra is composed of three coats: a mucous, muscular, and i j erectile. The mucous coat forms part of the genito-urinary mucous membrane. It is 5 continuous with the mucous membrane of the bladder, ureters, and kidneys ; 9 externally, with the integument covering the glans penis; and is prolonged into '! the ducts of the numerous glands which open into the urethra, viz., Cowper's glands, the prostate gland; and, through the ejaculatory ducts, is continued into the vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales. In the spongy and membranous portions, the muco.us membrane is arranged in longitudinal folds when the organ is contracted. Small papillae are found upon it, near the orifice; and its epithe-