78 OSTEOLOGY. of the superior maxillary; behind, by the palate process of the palate bone. This surface presents, from before backwards, the anterior nasal spine; behind this, the upper orifice of the anterior palatine canal; internally, the elevated crest which articulates with the vomer; and behind, the suture between the palate and superior maxillary bones, and the posterior nasal spine. 66.—Eoof, Floor, and Outer Wall of Nasal Fossse. Nasal i^jjins of Fromtal Bone HoTLzmixdTlate af^MJi-mcid Floor A.77t. Nasal Sj)iiw ^dlatf, Ftoc, of iSujj-Maoc. palate Proc. of Talaie Fost. Nasal tS'pim A.7i/i/. Palatine Qjuml Prolf- passed thrjugk Naso-lcuihrymciL Carud Bnstl& passed tluviufJi lnfaridhhulu,vi ■ OuUr Wall ^ Nasa L Ftol: afSiij>Mai T, n,ch7>ymal, Jlnnciformf^oa ditfia Folate Sujj&rcor Meatus Middle Meatu,s inferior Meatus' The inner ivall, or septum (fig. 67), is a thin vertical septum, which separates the nasal fossse from one another; it is occasionally perforated so that the fossje communicate, and it is frequently deflected considerably to one side. It is formed, in front, by the crest of the nasal bones and nasal spine of the frontal; in the middle, by the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid; behind, by the vomer and rostrum of the sphenoid; below, by the crest of the superior maxillary and palate bones. It presents, in front, a large triangular notch, which receives the triangular cartilage of the nose; above, the lower orifices of the olfactory canals; and behind, the guttural edge of the vomer. Its surface is marked by numerous vascular and nervous canals, and traversed by sutures connecting the bones of which it is formed. The outer wall is formed, in front, by the nasal process of the superior maxillary and lachrymal bones; in the middle, by the ethmoid and inner surface of the superior maxillary and inferior turbinated bones; behind, by the vertical plate of the palate bone. This surface presents three irregular longitudinal passages, or meatuses, formed between three horizontal plates of bone that spring from it; they are termed the superior, middle, and inferior meatuses of the nose. The superior meatus, the smallest of the three, is situated at the upper and back part of each nasal fossa, occupying the posterior third of the outer wall. It is situated between tlie superior and middle turbinated bones, and has opening into it two foramina, the spheno-palatine at the back part of it^ outer wall, the posterior ethmoidal cells at the front part of the upper wall. The opening of the sphenoidal sinuses is usually at the upper and back part of the nasal fossa% immediately behind the