363 SUBCLAVIAN. this point, must be a still further objection to the operation. If, however, it has been determined upon to perform the operation in this situation, it should be remembered that it occasionally happens, that the artery passes in front of the Scalenus anticus, or through the fibres of that muscle; or that the vein sometimes passes with the artery behind the Scalenus anticus. In those cases of aneurism of the axillary or subclavian artery which encroach upon the outer portion of the Scalenus muscle to such an extent that a ligature cannot be applied in that situation, it may be deemed advisable, as a last resource, to tie the first portion of the subclavian artery. On the left side, this operation is quite impractical)lo ; the great depth of the artery from the surface, its intimate relation with the pleura, and its close proximity with so many important veins and nerves, present a series of difficulties which it is impossible to overcome. On the right side, the operation is practicable, and has been performed, though not with success. The main ol)jection to the operation in this situation is the smallness of the interval which usually exists between the commencement of the vessel, and the origin of the nearest branch. This operation may be performed in the fol- lowing manner. The patient being placed on a table in the horizontal position, with the neck extended, an incision should be made parallel with the inner part of the clavicle, and a second along the inner border of the Sterno-mastoid, meeting it at right angles. The sternal attachment of the Sterno-mastoid may now be divided on a director, and turned outwards ; a fevv^ small arteries and veins, and occasionally the anterior jugular, must be avoided, and the Sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles divided in the same manner as the preceding muscle. After tearing through the deep fascia with the finger-nail, the internal jugular vein will be seen crossing the artery ; this should be pressed aside, and the artery secured by passing the needle from below upwards, by which the pleura is more effectually avoided. The exact position of the vagus nerve, the recurrent laryngeal, the phrenic and sympathetic nerves, should be remembered, and the ligature should be applied near the origin of the vertebral, in order to afibrd as much room as possible for the formation of a coagulum between the ligature and the origin of the vessel. It should be remembered, that the right subclavian artery is occasionally deeply placed in the first part of its course, when it arises from the left side of the aortic arch, and passes in such cases behind the oesophagus, or between it and the trachea. Collateral Circulation. After ligature of the third part of the subclavian artery, the collateral circulation is mainly established by three sets of vessels. ' I, A posterior set, consisting of the supra-scapular and posterior scapular branches of the subclavian, which anastomosed with the infra-scapular from the axillary. ' 2. An internal set, produced by the connection of the internal mammary on the one hand, with the short and long thoracic arteries, and the infra scapular, on the other, '3, A middl£o£ axillary set, which consisted of a nurhber of small vessels derived from branches7)T''£he~su1!)cIavian,. above ; and passing through the axilla, to terminate either in the main trunk, or some of the branches of the axillary, below. This last set presented most conspicuously the pecuhar character of newly-formed, or, rather, dilated arteries,' being excessively tortuous, and forming a complete plexus. ' The chief agent in the restoration of the axillary artery below the tumour, was the infra-scapular artery, which communicated most freely with the internal mammary, supra- scapular, and posterior scapular branches of the subclavian, from all of which it received so great an influx of blood as to dilate it to three times its natural size.' * Branches of the Subclavian Artery. These are four in number. Three 215,-Plan of the Branches of the Right arising from the first portion of the vessel, Subclavian Artery, the vertebral, the internal mammary, and the thyroid axis; and one from the second portion, the superior intercostal. The vertebral arises from the upper and back part of the first portion of the artery; the thyroid axis from the front, and the in- ternal mammary from the under part of this vessel. The superior intercostal is given off from the upper and back part of the second portion of the artery. On the left side, the second portion usually gives off no branch, the superior inter- * Guy 8 Hospital Reports, Yol.i. 1836. Case of axillary aneurism, in which Mr, Aston Key had tied the subclavian artery on the outer edge of the Scalenus muscle, twelve years pre- viously.