The Muscles and Fasciae. 'THE Muscles are the active organs of locomotion. They are formed of bundles of reddish fibres, consisting chemically of fibrine, and endowed with the pro- perty of contractility. Two kinds of muscular tissue are found in the animal body, viz., that of voluntary or animal life, and that of involuntary or organic life. The muscles of animal life {striped muscles) are capable of being either ex- erted or controlled by the efforts of the ,will. They are composed of bundles of fibres enclosed in a delicate web of areolar tissue. Each bundle consists of numerous smaller ones, enclosed in a similar fibro-areolar covering, and these again of primitive fasciculi. The primitive fasciculi consist of a number of filaments, inclosed in a tubular sheath of transparent, elastic, and apparently homogenous membrane, named by Bowman the ^ Sarcolemma.' The primitive fasciculi are cylindriform or prismatic. Their breadth varies in man from 2 o^-q 500" inch, the average of the ma- jority being about their length is not always in proportion to the length of the muscle, but depends on the arrangement of the tendons. This form of muscular fibre is especially characterised by being apparently marked with very fine, dark, parallel lines or strice, which pass transversely round them, in curved or wavy parallel lines, from yq^-^oo Tl'o¥'o moh apart. Other striae pass longitu- dinally over the tubes, indicating the direction of the primitive fibrils of which the primitive fasciculus is composed. They are less distinct than the former. The primitive fibrils constitute the proper contractile tissue of the muscle. Each fibril is cylindriform, somewhat flattened, about ys o^o 0" inok in thick- ness, and marked by transverse strias placed at the same distance from each other as the striae on the surface of the fasciculus. Each fibril apparently consists of a single row of minute particles (named ' sarcous elements' by Bowman), connected together like a string of beads. Closer examination, however, shews that the elementary particles are little masses of pellucid substance, having a rectangular outline, and appearing dark in the centre. These appearances would favour the suggestion that the elementary particles of which the fibrils are composed, are possibly nucleated cells, cohering in a linear series, the transverse marks between them corresponding to their line of junction. Kolliker, however, considers ' the sarcous elements as artificial products, occasioned by the breaking up of the fibrils at the parts where they are thinner.' This form of muscular fibre composes the whole of the voluntary muscles, all the muscles of the ear, those of the larynx, pharynx, tongue, and upper half of the oesophagus, the heart, and the walls of the large veins at the point where they open into it. The muscles of organic life {unstriped muscles) consist of flattened bands, or of elongated, spindle-shaped fibres, flattened, of a pale colour, from -^-if^Q to -gtVo of an inch broad, homogeneous in texture, having a finely mottled aspect, which sometimes appears granular, the granules being occasionally arranged in a linear series, so as to present a striated appearance. Each fibre contains a cylindrical _ * The Muscles and Fascise are described conjointly, in order that the student may con- sider the arrangement of the latter in his dissection of the former. It is rare for the student of anatomy in this country to have the opportunity of dissecting the fasciae separately; and it is for this reason, as well as from the close connexion that exists between the muscles and their investing aponeuroses, that they are considered together. Some general observations are first made on the anatomy of the muscles and fascise, the special description being given in connexion with the different regions.