OSTEOLOGY. Longl colli muscles. The odontoid process presents two articulating surfaces: one in front of an oval form, for articulation with the atlas; another behind, for the transverse ligament; the latter frequently encroaches on the sides of the process; the apex is pointed. Below the apex this process is somewhat enlarged, and presents on either side a rough impression for the attachment of the odontoid or check ligaments, which connect it to the occipital bone; the base of the process, where attached to the body, is constricted, so as to prevent displacement from the trans- verse ligament, which binds it in this situation to the anterior arch of the atlas. Sometimes, however, this process does become displaced, especially in children, where the ligaments are more relaxed, instant death is the result. The pedicles are broad and strong, especially their anterior extremities which coalesce with the sides of the body and the root of the odontoid process. The laminae are thick and strong, and the spinal foramen very large. The superior articular surfaces are round, slightly convex, directed upwards and outwards, and are peculiar in being supported on the body, pedicles, and transverse processes. The inferior articular surfaces, have the same direction as those of the other cervical vertebrae. The superior intervertebral notches are very shallow, and lie behind the articular processes; the inferior in front of them, as in the other cervical vertebra). The transverse processes are very small, not bifid, and perforated by the vertebral foramen, which is directed obliquely upwards, and outwards. The spinous process is of large size, very strong, deeply chanelled on its under surface, and presents a bifid tubercular extremity for the attachment of muscles, which serve to rotate the head upon the spine. ^_^7 ^YiQ vertebral vein traverses it on both sides; but the usual arrange- ment is for both artery and vein to pass through the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical. Characters of the Dorsal Vertebra. The bodies of the dorsal vertebrae resemble those in the cervical and lumbar regions at the respective ends of this portion of the spine; but in the middle of the dorsal region their form is very characteristic, being heart-shaped, and broader in the antero-posterior than in the lateral direction. They are thicker behind than in front, flat above and below, convex and prominent in front, deeply concave behind, slightly constricted in front and at the sides, and marked on each side, near the root of the pedicle, by two demi-facets, one 4.—7th Cervical Vertebra, or Vertebra Prominens. Body. Seventh Cervical (fig. 4). The most distinctive character of this vertebra is the existence of a very long, and prominent spinous pro- cess; hence the name 'Vertebra prominens.' This process is thick, nearly horizontal in direction, not bifurcated, and has attached to it the ligamentum nuchae. The trans- verse process is usually of large size, especially its posterior root, its upper surface has usually a shallow groove, and seldom pre- sents more than a trace of bifurca- tion at its extremity. The vertebral foramen is sometimes as large as in the other cervical vertebrae, usually smaller, on one or both sides, and sometimes wanting. On the left side, it occasionally gives passage to the vertebral artery; more frequently