MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 236 The inferior oblique portion, the smallest part of the muscle, arises from the bodies of the first two or three dorsal vertebras; and, passing obliquely outwards, is inserted into the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. The vertical portion lies directly on the front of the spine, and is extended between the bodies of the lower three cervical and the upper three dorsal vertebrse below, and the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae above. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the pharynx, the oesophagus, sympathetic nerve, the sheath of the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve, inferior thyroid artery, and recurrent laryngeal nerve. By its posterior surface, with the cervical and dorsal portions of the spine. Its inner border is separated from the opposite muscle by a considerable interval below; but they approach each other above. 8. Vertebral Region (Lateral). Scalenus Anticus. Scalenus Medius. Scalenus Posticus. The Scalenus Anticus is a conical-shaped muscle, situated deeply at the side of the neck, behind the Sterno-mastoid. It arises by a narrow, flat tendon from the tubercle on the inner border and upper surface of the first rib; and, ascending vertically upwards, is inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. The lower part of this muscle separates the subclavian artery and vein; the latter being in front, and the former, with the brachial plexus, behind. Relations. It is covered by the clavicle, the Subclavius, Sterno-mastoid, and Orao-hyoid muscles, the transversalis colli, and ascending cervical arteries, the subclavian vein, and the phrenic nerve. By its posterior surface, with the pleura, the subclavian artery, and brachial plexus of nerves. It is separated from the Longus colli, on the inner side, by the subclavian artery. The Scalenus Medius, the largest and longest of the three Scaleni, arises, by a broad origin, from the upper surface of the first rib, behind the groove for the subclavian artery, as far back as the tubercle; and, ascending along the side of the vertebral column, is inserted, by separate tendinous slips, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower six cervical vertebrae. It is separated from the Scalenus anticus by the subclavian artery below, and the cervical nerves above. Relations. By its external surface, with the Sterno-mastoid; it is crossed by the clavicle, and Omo-hyoid muscle. To its outer side, is the Levator anguli scapulae, and the Scalenus posticus muscle. The Scalenus posticus, the smallest of the three Scaleni, arises by a thin tendon from the outer surface of the second rib, behind the attachment of the Serratus magnus, and enlarging as it ascends, is inserted, by two or three separate tendons, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower two or three cervical vertebrae. This is the most deeply-placed of the three Scaleni, and is occasionally blended with the Scalenus medius. Nerves. The Rectus capitis anticus major and minor are supplied by the sub-occipital and deep branches of the cervical plexus; the Rectus lateralis, by the sub-occipital; and the Longus colli and Scaleni, by branches from the lower cervical nerves. Actions. The Rectus anticus major and minor are the direct antagonists of those placed at the back of the neck, serving to restore the head to its natural position when drawn backwards by the posterior muscles. These muscles also serve to flex the head, and, from their obliquity, rotate it, so as to turn the face to one or the other side. The Longus colli will flex and slightly rotate the cervical portion of the spine. The Scaleni muscles, taking their fixed point from below, draw down the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, flexing the spinal column to one or the other side. If the muscles of both sides act, the spine will be kept erect. When taking their fixed point from above, they elevate the first and second ribs, and are, therefore, inspiratory muscles.