358 ARTERIES. divides into two, one of which anastomoses with the angular artery, the other branch, the dorsalis nasi, runs along the dorsum of the nose, supplies its entire surface, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. The ciliary arteries are divisible into three groups, the short, long, and anterior. The sJiort ciliary arteries, from twelve to fifteen in number, arise from the ophthalmic, or some of its branches; they surround the optic nerve as they pass forwards to the posterior part of the eyeball, pierce the sclerotic coat around the entrance of this nerve, and supply the choroid coat and ciliary processes. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, also pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and run forwards, along each side of the eyeball, between the sclerotic and choroid, to the ciliary ligament, where they divide into two branches; these form an arterial circle around the circumference of the iris, from which numerous radiating branches pass forwards, in its substance, to its free margin, where they form a second arterial circle around its pupillary margin. The anterior ciliary arteries are derived from the muscular branches ; they pierce the sclerotic a short distance from the cornea, and terminate in the great arterial circle of the iris. The arteria centralis retince, is one of the smallest branches of the ophthalmic artery. It arises near the optic foramen, pierces the optic nerve obliquely, and runs forwards, in the centre of its substance, to the retina, in which its branches are distributed as far forwards as the ciliary processes. In the human foetus, a small vessel passes forwards, through the vitreous humour, to the posterior surface of the capsule of the lens. The muscular branches, two in number, superior and inferior, supply the muscles of the eyeball. The superior, the smaller, often wanting, supplies the Levator palpebral, Superior rectus, and Superior oblique. The inferior, more constant in its existence, passes forwards, between the optic nerve and Inferior rectus, and is distributed to the External and Inferior recti, and Inferior oblique. This vessel gives olF most of the anterior ciliary arteries. The cerebral branches of the internal carotid are, the anterior cerebral, the middle cerebral, the posterior communicating, and the anterior choroid. The anterior cerebral arises from the internal carotid, at the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius. It passes forwards in the great longitudinal fissure between the two anterior lobes of the brain, being connected, soon after its origin, with the vessel of the opposite side by a short anastomosing trunk, about two lines in length, the anterior communicating. The two anterior cerebral arteries, lying side by side, curve round the anterior border of the corpus callosum, and run along its upper surface to its posterior part, where they terminate by anastomosing with the posterior cerebral arteries. They supply the olfactory and optic nerves, the under surface of the anterior lobes, the third ventricle, the anterior perforated space, the corpus callosum, and the inner surface of the hemispheres. The anterior communicating artery is a short branch, about two lines in length, but of moderate size, connecting together the two anterior cerebral arteries across the longitudinal fissure. Sometimes this vessel is wanting, the two arteries joining together to form a single trunk, which afterwards subdivides. Or the vessel may be wholly or partially subdivided into two; frequently, it is longer and smaller than usual. The middle cerebral artery, the largest branch of the internal carotid, passes obliquely outwards along the fissure of Sylvius, within which it divides into three branches: an anterior, which supplies the pia mater, investing the surface of the anterior lobe; a posterior, which supplies the middle lobe; and a median branch, which supplies the small lobe at the outer extremity of the Sylvian fissure. Near its origin, this vessel gives off numerous small branches, which enter the substantia perforata, to be distributed to the corpus striatum. The 'posterior communicating artery arises from the back part of the internal carotid, runs directly backwards, and anastomoses with the posterior cerebral, a