MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 2l8 fibres pass downwards and backwards, to be inserted into the angle and lower half of the ramus of the jaw. The deep portion is much smaller, and more muscular in texture; it arises from the posterior third of the lower border and whole of the inner surface of the zygomatic arch; its fibres pass downwards and forwards to be inserted into the upper half of the ramus and outer surface of the coronoid process of the jaw. The deep portion of the muscle is partly concealed, in front, by the superficial portion; behind, it is covered by the parotid gland. The fibres of the two portions are united at their insertion. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument; above, with the Orbicularis palpebrarum and Zygomatici; and has passing across it, transversely, Stenon's duct, the branches of the facial nerve, and the transverse facial vessels. By its deep surface, with the ramus of the jaw, and the Buccinator, from which it is separated by a mass of fat. Its posterior margin is overlapped by the parotid gland. Its anterior margin projects over the Buccinator muscle. The temporal fascia is seen, at this stage of the dissection, covering-in the Temporal muscle. It is a strong aponeurotic investment, affording attachment, by its inner surface, to the superficial fibres of this muscle. Above, it is a single layer, attached to the entire extent of the temporal ridge; but below, where it is attached to the zygoma, it consists of two layers, one of which is inserted into the outer, and the other to the inner border of the zygomatic arch. A small quantity of fat, the orbital branch of the temporal artery, and a filament from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve, are contained between these two layers. It is covered, on its outer surface, by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis, the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and Attollens and Attrahens aurem muscles; the temporal vessels and nerves cross it from below upwards. 151.—The Temporal Muscle, the Zygoma and Masseter having been removed. Dissection. In order to expose the Temporal muscle, this fascia should be removed: this may be effected by separating it at its attachment along the upper border of the zygoma, and dissecting it upwards from the surface of the muscle. The zygomatic arch should then be divided, in front, at its junction with the malar bone ; and, behind, near the external auditory meatus, and drawn downwards with the Masseter, which should be detached from its insertion into the ramus and angle of the jaw. The whole extent of the Temporal muscle is then exposed.