228 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. be inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the os hyoides. This muscle lies in close contact with its fellow of the opposite side, and increases slightly in breadth as it descends. Relations. It is covered by the Mylo-hyoid, and lies on the Genio-hyo-glossus. Nerves. The Digastric is supplied, its anterior belly, by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental; its posterior belly, by the facial; the Stylo-hyoid, by the facial; the Mylo-hyoid, by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental; the Genio-hyoid, by the hypoglossal. Actions. This group of muscles performs two very important actions. They raise the hyoid bone, and with it the base of the tongue, during the act of deglu- tition ; or, when the hyoid bone is fixed by its depressors and those of the larynx, they depress the lower jaw. During the first act of deglutition, when the mass is being driven from the mouth into the pharynx, the hyoid bone, and with it the tongue, is carried upwards and forwards by the anterior belly of the Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and Genio-hyoid muscles. In the second act, when the mass is passing through the pharynx, the direct elevation of the hyoid bone takes place by the combined action of all the muscles; and after the food has passed, the hyoid bone is carried upwards and backwards by the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, which assists in preventing the return of the morsel into the cavity of the mouth. Dissection. After completing the dissection of the preceding muscles, saw through the lower jaw just external to the symphysis. The tongue should then be drawn forwards with a hook, and its muscles, which are thus put on the stretch, may be examined. The Genio-Hyo-Glossus has received its name from its triple attachment to the chin, hyoid bone, and tongue; it is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, placed verti- cally in the middle line, its apex corresponding with its point of attachment to the lower jaw, its base with its insertion into the tongue and hyoid bone. It arises by a short tendon from the superior genial tubercle on the inner side of the sym- physis of the chin, immediately above the Genio-hyoid; from this point, the muscle spreads out in a fan-like form, the inferior fibres passing downwards, to be inserted into the upper part of the body of the hyoid bone, a few being continued into the side of the pharynx; the middle fibres passing backwards, and the superior ones upwards and forwards, to be attached to the whole length of the under surface of the tongue, from the base to the apex. Relations. By its internal surface, it is in contact with its fellow of the opposite side, from which it is separated, at the back part of the tongue, by a fibro-cellular structure, which extends forwards through the middle of the organ. By its external surface, with the Lingualis, Hyo-glossus, and Stylo-glossus, the lingual artery and hypoglossal nerve, the gustatory nerve, and sublingual gland. By its upper border, with the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. By its lower border, with the Genio-hyoid. The Hyo- Glossus is a thin, flat, quadrilateral muscle, arising from the side of the body, the lesser cornu, and whole length of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and passing almost vertically upwards, is inserted into the side of the tongue, between the Stylo-glossus and Lingualis. Those fibres of this muscle which arise from the body, are directed upwards and backwards, overlapping those from the greater cornu, which are directed obliquely forwards. Those from the lesser cornu extend forwards and outwards along the side of the tongue, under cover of the portion arising from the body. 4. Lingual Region, Genio-Hyo-Glossus. Hyo-Glossus. Lingualis. Stylo-Glossus. Palato-Glossus.