6i6 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Structure. On making a vertical section of a tooth (fig. 322), a hollow cavity will be found in the interior. This cavity is situated at the base of the crown, and is continuous with a canal which traverses the centre of 322.—Vertical Section each fang, and opens by a minute orifice at its extremity, of a Molar Tooth. The shape of the cavity corresponds somewhat with that of the tooth: it forms what is called the jiulp cavity^ and ^^^^MK contains a soft, highly vascular, and sensitive substance, the dental j^ulp. The pulp is richly supplied with vessels l^^wV ^^^'^^ and nerves, which enter the cavity through the small aperture at the point of each fang. WW ^M—-^^^■"y The solid portion of the tooth consists of three distinct Vi/ w| structures, viz., ivory (tooth-bone, or dentine), which forms ^ P the larger portion of the tooth; enamel, which covers the exposed part, or crown; and the cortical substance, or cement {crusta jietrosa), which is disposed as a thin layer on the surface of the fang. The Ivory, or dentine (fig. 323), forms the principal mass of a tooth; in its central part is the cavity enclosing the pulp. It is a modification of the osseous tissue, from which it difiers, however, in structure and chemical composition. On examination with the microscope, it is seen to 323.—Vertical Section of a Bicus- consist of a number of minute wavy and branching tubes, having distinct parietes. They are called the dental titbuli, and are imbedded in a dense homogeneous substance, the intertubular tissue. The dental tabuli are placed parallel with one another, and open at their inner ends into the pulp cavity. They pursue a wavy and undulating course towards the periphery. The direction of these tubes varies; they are vertical in the upper portion of the crown, oblique in the neck and upper part of the root, and towards the lower part of the root they are inclined downwards. The tubuli, at their commencement, are about ^j^-Q of an inch in diameter; in their course they divide and subdivide dichotomously, so as to give to the cut surface of the dentine a striated appearance. From the sides of the tubes, espe- cially in the fang, ramifications of extreme mi- nuteness are given off, which join together in loops in the intertubular substance, or terminate in small dilatations, from which branches are given oiF. Near the periphery of the dentine, the finer ramifications of the tubuli terminate in a somewhat similar manner. In the fang, these ramifications occasionally pass into the crusta petrosa. The dental tubuli have comparatively thick walls, and contain, according to Mr. Tomes, slender cylindrical prolonga- tions of the pulp-tissue. The intertubular substance is translucent, finely granular, and contains the chief part of the earthy matter of the dentine. After the earthy matter has been removed, by steeping a tooth in weak acid, the animal basis remaining is described by Henle as consisting of bundles of pale, granular, flattened fibres, running parallel with the tubes; but by Mr. Nasmyth as consisting of a mass of brick- shaped cells surrounding the tubules. By Czermack and Mr. Salter it is supposed to consist of laminse which run parallel with the pulp cavity, across the direction of the tubes. Chemical Composition. According to Berzelius and Bibra, dentine consists of 28 parts of animal, and 72 of earthy matter. The animal matter is resolvable by