OSTEOLOGY. 148 wliole surface by the fibrous tissue of the tendon in which they are found, excepting upon that side which lies in contact with the part over which they pL^y, where they present a free articular facet. They may be divided into two kinds: those which glide over the articular surfaces of joints; those which play over the carti- laginous facets found on the surfaces of certain bones. The sesamoid bones of the joints are, in the lower extremity, the patella, which is developed in the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor; two small sesamoid bones, found opposite the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe in each foot, in the tendons of the Flexor brevis pollicis, and occasionally one in the metatarso-pha- langeal joint of the second toe, the little toe, and, still more rarely, in the third and fourth toes. In the upper extremity, there are two on the palmar surface of the metacarpo- phalangeal joint in the thumb, developed in the tendons of the Flexor brevis pollicis. Occasionally, one or two opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations of the fore and little fingers, and, still more rarely, one opposite the same joints of the third and fourth fingers. Those found in tendons which glide over certain bones, occupy the following situations. One in the tendon of the Peroneus longus, where it glides through the groove in the cuboid bone. One appears late in life in the tendon of the Tibialis anticus, opposite the smooth facet on the internal cuneiform bone. One in the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, opposite the inner side of the astragalus. One in the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, behind the outer condyle of the femur; and one in the Psoas and Iliacus, where they glide over the body of the pubes. Occa- sionally in the tendon of the Biceps, opposite the tuberosity of the radius; in the tendon of the Gluteus maximus, as it passes over the great trochanter; and in the tendons which wind round the inner and outer malleoli. The author has to acknowledge valuable aid derived from the perusal of the works of Cloquet, Cruvelhier, Bourgery, and Boyer, especially of the latter. Reference has also been made to the following ' Outlines of Human Osteology,' by F. 0. Ward. ' A Treatise on the Human Skeleton, and Observations on the Limbs of Vertebrate Animals,' by G. M. Humphry. Holden's ' Human Osteology.' Henle's ' Handbuch der Systematischen Anatomie des Menschen. Erster Band. Erste Abtheilung. Knochenlehre.' ' Osteological Memoirs (The Clavicle),' by Struthers. ' On the Archetype and Homologies of the Verte- brate Skeleton,' and ' On the Nature of Limbs,' by Owen.—Todd and Bowman's 'Physio- logical Anatomy,' and Kolliker's ' Manual of Human Microscopic Anatomy,' contain the most complete account of the structure and development of bone.—The development of the bones is minutely described in ' Quain's Anatomy,' edited by Sharpey and Ellis.—On the chemical analysis of bone, refer to ' Lehmann's Physiological Chemistry,' translated by Day; vol. iii., p. 12. 'Simon's Chemistry,' translated by Day; vol. ii., p. 396. A paper by Dr. Stark, On the Chemical Constitution of the Bones of the Vertebrated Animals' (Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal; vol. liii., p. 308) ; and Dr. Owen Bees' paper in the 2ist vol. of the Medico-chirurgical Transactions.