22 OSTEOLOGY. a third set, the degree of curvature was less marked, and affected especially the lower third of the bone. Development (fig. 17). The sacrum, formed by the union of five vertebrse, has thirty-Jive centres of ossification. The bodies of the sacral vertebrae have each three ossific centres; one for the central part, and one for the epiphysal plates on its upper and under surface. The lamincB of the sacral vertebrie are each developed by two centres; these meet behind to form the arch, and subsequently join the body. The lateral masses have six additional centres, two for each of the first three vertebra. These centres make their appearance above and to the outer side of the anterior sacral foramina (fig. 17), and are developed into separate segments, which correspond with the anterior transverse processes (fig. 18); they are subse- quently blended with each other, and with the bodies and the posterior transverse processes, to form the lateral mass. Lastly, each lateral surface of the sacrum is developed by two epiphysal plates (fig. 19); one for the auricular surface, and one for the remaining part of the thin lateral edge of the bone. Period of Development. At about the eighth or ninth week of foetal life, ossifi- cation of the central part of the bodies of the first three vertebra? commences; and, at a somewhat later period, that of the last two. Between the sixth and eighth months, ossification of the lamina? takes place; and, at about the same period, the characteristic osseous tubercles for the three first sacral vertebra? make their appearance. The lamina? join to form the arch, and are united to the bodies, first, in the lowest vertebra?. This occurs about the second year, the uppermost segment appearing as a single piece about the fifth or sixth year. About the six- teenth year, the epiphyses for the upper and under surfaces of the bodies are formed; and, between the eighteenth and twentieth years, those for each lateral surface of the sacrum make their appearance. At about this period, the last two segments are joined to one another; and this process gradually extending upwards, 20.—Coccyx. all the pieces become united, and the bone com- Cornna pletely formed from the twenty-fifth to the thirtieth year of life. Articulations. With four bones: the last lumbar vertebra, coccyx, and the two ossa innominata. Attachment of Muscles. The Pyriformis and Coccygeus on either side; behind, the Gluteus maximus, and Erector spinse. The Coccyx. The Coccyx {kokkv^, cuckoo), so called from resembling a cuckoo's beak (fig. 20), is usually formed of four small segments of bone, the most rudimentary parts of the vertebral column. In each of the first three segments may be traced a rudimentary body, articular and transverse pro- cesses; the last piece (sometimes the third) being merely a rudimentary nodule of bone, without distinct processes. All the segments are destitute of lamina? and spinous processes; and, consequently, of spinal canal, and intervertebral foramina. The first segment is the largest, resembles the lower- most sacral vertebra, and often exists as a separate piece; the last three, diminishing in size from above downwards, are usually blended together so as to form a single bone. The gradual diminution in the size of the pieces gives this bone a triangular form, articulating by its base with the end of the