The Articulations. THE various bones of which the Skeleton consists are connected together at different parts of their surfaces, and such connection is designated by the name of Joint or Articulation. If the joint is immoveable, as between tlie cranial and most of the facial bones, their adjacent margins are applied in almost close contact, a thin layer of fibrous membrane, the sutural ligament, and, at the base of the skull, in certain situations, a thin layer of cartilage being interposed. Where slight movement is required, combined with great strength, the osseous surfaces are united by tough and elastic fibro-cartilages, as in the joints of the spine, the sacro-iliac, and inter-pubic articulations; but in the moveable joints, the bones forming the articulation are generally expanded for greater convenience of mutual connexion, covered by an elastic structure, called cartilage, held toge- ther by strong bands or capsules, of fibrous tissue, called ligament, and lined by a membrane, the synovial membrane, which secretes a fluid that lubricates the various parts of which the joint is formed, so that the structures which enter into the formation of a joint are bone, cartilage, fibro-cartilage, ligament, and synovial membrane. Bone constitutes the fundamental element of all the joints. In the long bones, the extremities are the parts which form the articulations; they are generally somewhat enlarged, consisting of spongy cancellous tissue, with a thin coating of compact substance. In the flat bones, the articulations usually take place at the edges; and, in the short bones, by various parts of their surface. The layer of compact bone which forms the articular surface, and to which the cartilage is attached, is called the articular lamella. It is of a white colour, extremely dense, and varies in thickness. Its structure differs from ordinary bone tissue in this respect, that it contains no Haversian canals, and its lacun[E are much larger than in ordinary bone, and have no canaliculi. The vessels of the cancellous tissue, as they approach the articular lamella, turn back in loops, and do not perforate it; this layer is consequently more dense, and firmer than ordinary bone, and is evidently designed to form a firm and unyielding support for the articular cartilage. Cartilage, is firm, opaque, of a pearly-white or bluish-white colour; in some varieties yellow; highly elastic, readily yielding to pressure, and recovering its shape when the force is removed; flexible, and possessed of considerable cohesive power. In man, that form of cartilage which constitutes the original framework of the body, and which in time becomes ossified throughout the greater part of its extent, is called temporary cartilage. But there is another form of cartilage em- ployed in the construction of the body that is not prone to ossify, viz., permanent cartilage. This is found—I. In the joints, covering the ends of the bones (articular cartilage). 2. Forming a considerable part of the solid framework of the chest (costal cartilages). 3. Arranged in the form of plates or lamella3, of greater or less thickness, which enter into the formation of the external ear, the nose, the eyelids, the Eustachian tube, the larynx, and the windpipe. They serve to maintain the shape of canals or passages, or to form tubes that require to be kept permanently open without the expenditure of vital force. Structure. Cartilage consists either of a parenchyma of nucleated cells, or the cells are imbedded in an intercellular substance or matrix. The cells, or cartilage corpuscles are con- tained in hollow calities or lacunae in the intercellular substance, which appear to be lined by a firm, clear, or yellowish layer, the cartilage capsule. Under the influence of certain reagents, the cartilage cell shrinks up, and is separated from its capsule by a well marked interval. The cartilage cells are usually round or oblong, sometimes flattened or