SPHENOID BONE. surface presenting, in tlie median line, a slight longitudinal eminence, with a depression on each side, for lodging the olfactory nerves. A narrow transverse groove, the optic groove, bounds the above-mentioned surface behind ; it lodges the optic commissure, and terminates on either side in the optic foramen, for the passage of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. Behind the optic groove is a smaireminence, olive-like in shape, the olivary process; and still more posteriorly, a deep depression, the pituitary fossa, or 'sella Turcica,' which lodges the pituitary body. This fossa is perforated by numerous foramina, for the transmission of nutrient vessels to the substance of the bone. It is bounded in front by two small eminences, one on either side, called the middle clinoid processes (/cXtV^y, 'a bed'), and behind by a square-shaped plate of bone, terminating at each superior angle in a tubercle, the posterior clinoid processes, the size and form of which vary considerably in different individuals. These processes deepen the pituitary fossa, and serve for the attachment of prolongations from the tentorium. The sides of the plate of bone supporting the posterior clinoid processes are notched, for the passage of the sixth pair of nerves; and behind, it presents a shallow depression, which slopes obliquely backwards, and is continuous with the basilar groove of the occipital bone; it supports the medulla oblongata. On either side of the body is a broad groove, curved somewhat like the italic letter /; it lodges the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus, and is called the cavernous groove. The 35._Splienoid Bone, Anterior Surface. posterior surface, quadrilateral in form, articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone. During childhood, a separation between these bones exists by means of a layer of cartilage; but in after-life this becomes ossified, ossification commencing above, and extending downward, and the two bones are then im- moveably connected together. The anterior surface (fig. 35) presents, in the middle line, a vertical lamella of bone, which articulates in front with the per- pendicular plate of the ethmoid, forming part of the septum of the nose. On either side of it are the irregular openings leading into the sphenoidal sinuses. These are two large irregular cavities, hollowed out of the interior of the body of the sphenoid bone, and separated from one another by a more or less complete perpendicular bony septum. Their form and size vary considerably, they are seldom symmetrical, and are often partially subdivided by irregular osseous laminse. Occasionally they extend into the basilar process of the occipital nearly as far as the foramen magnum. The septum is seldom quite vertical, commonly being bent to one or the other side. These sinuses do not exist in children; but they increase in size as age advances. They are partially closed, in front and