By order of the College, this Book is not to be taken out of the Library {except after 6 p.m. until 10 a.m. ) for one month from this date. Physicians’ Hall fhyr 189 /■» CLINICAL PAPEES.NUNCJUAM ALTUD NATUHA, ALIUD SAPIENTIA DICIT.BY J. HALLIDAY CKOOM, M.I). F.R.C.S.Ed., F.R.C.P.Ed., f.r.s.e. CONSULTING GYN*'ECOLOGIST, ROYAL INFIRMARY ; CONSULTING PHYSICIAN, ROYAL SIMPSON MEMORIAL HOSPITAL; LECTURER ON MIDWIFERY AND DISEASES OF MEDICINE OF THE ROYAL COLLEGES, EDINBURGH ; HONORARY W ASSOCIATION OF OBSTETRICIANS AND GYNAECOLOGISTS; MEMBR soci6t^: belge de gyn^cologie et d’obstetrique ; formi UNIVERSITIES OF EDINBURGH AND ST. ANDREWS ; LATE PR' THE EDINBURGH OBSTETRICAL SOCIETY NITY AND EDINBURGH AND LONDON YOUNG J. PEN T L A N D 1901EDINIU’RGH : PRINTED FOR YOUNG J. PENTLANI), 11 TEVIOT PLACE, AM) 88 WEST SMITIIFIKLI), LONDON, E.C., BY MORRISON AND GIBB LIMITED.MY FORMER RESIDENTS IX THE ROYAL INFIRMARY AND ROYAL MATERNITY AND SIMPSON MEMORIAL HOSPITAL.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b21700138PREFACE. These papers have been selected, not for their intrinsic value, bnt rather in grateful recognition of the years my Eesidents and I have been associated in each of the Hospitals, and as a remembrance of some of the work we have together done there. Edinbitegh, 25 Charlotte Square,y i >1CONTENTS. ♦ Premature Sexual Development, in relation specially to Ovarian Tumours, with an Illustrative Case of Ovarian Sarcoma in a Child of Seven ; Laparotomy ; Recovery, ..... On some Peculiar Relations of Abdominal and Pelvic Tumour.s, . A Group of Abdominal Sections—(1) Ovarian Tumour with Twisted Pedicle ; (2) Cholecystotomy ; (3) Enucleation of Ovarian Tumour ; (4) Drainage ; (5) Porro-Cresarean Section, . . . . The Diagnosis of Early Extra-uterine Gestation, with Illustrative Cases, Two Cases of Extra-uterine Gestation Operated on after Rupture, at the Fourth Month, ....... Sessile Cysts ........ Glycosuria com})licating an Ovarian Tumour and Ovariotomy, Complicated Case of Double Ovariotomy in a Girl fet. Eighteen, Mittelschmerz, ........ ^'aginal Hysterectomy, ....... Operative Interference with Fibroid Tumours during Pregnancy, Par- turition, and the Puerperiuin, ..... Observations on the Bladder during the Early Puerj)erium, Chylous Ascites, with an Illustrative Case, . . . . Senile Uterine Catarrh, ....... Psychoses following Pelvi-Abdominal Operations, Two Cases of Mistaken Sex in Adult Life, .... h PACK 1 12 24 36 46 55 71 78 83 91 110 124 134 140 147 157X CONTENTS. I‘AGK Klepliantiasis Arabnin, . . . . . . .162 A Criticism of .some of the Lesser Gynajcological Maniimlations, . 166 On the Etiology of Vaginal Hannatoma occurring during Labour, . 176 The Causation of some Primitive Face Cases, . . . .184 On a Conplication of Occipito-Posterior Positions of the Vertex, . 192 On the Causation of the Sacculated Pregnant Utenns, . . . 203CLINICAL PAPEES.'I !ii ■r j > . ^ wL':" % XCLINICAL LAPEEH. I Premature Sexual Development, in relation specially to ()varian Tumours, with an Illustrative Case of Ovarian Sarcoma in a Child of Seven ; Laparo- tomy ; Recovery. Piuoii to a detailed description of the patient under con- sideration in the present paper, it may be of some interest if I make a somewhat rapid survey of cases of a similar nature which have been recorded. Precocious menstruation with associated premature sexual development, although by no means unique in its occurrence— as the medical literature of this country, of the Continent, and of America attests—is yet of sufficient rarity to invest it with at least a transient interest to the observer, when such an anomaly does present itself. After a perusal of tlie available literature at my hand, 1 have tal)ulated the cases found recorded under the following heads, and have, where the case seemed one of more out- standing peculiarity, shortly epitomised its history:— (1) I’recocious menstruation with an early appearance of the external manifestations of puberty ; (2) sexual develop- ment without menstruation; (.■;> ) menstruation previous to development of tlie sexual organs; (4) early conception and pregnancy; (5) premature sexual development associated with tumours of the generative organs. 1. One of the most striking cases illustrative of thisCLIXICAL JAPERS. L'TOUp is tlie ()ft-(|UOtGcl OllG of (Ig BG(Iu/ to wllicll StatGlllGllt liG considGi'G(l it a(lvisal)lG to a}»pGud tliG signaturGS of foiii' ])hysiciaiis, a mayor, aud a Ihitish consul. TliG history is as follows:—“ iMatilda if. was born on dlst l)GCGinl)Gr 1829. SliG caiiiG into the world with her inaninuG })GifGctly forniGd, and tliG mons VGucris covGrod with hairs, as niiicli as a girl l)GtwGGii l-'> and 14 yGars old. W’^liGii pi'GcisGly d months old, tho cataniGnia inadG thoir appoarancG, and havG continiiGd to appoar I'Ggularly GVGiy montli until the prGSGiit tiniG (1832), and as copious as any woman might luivc them, each period taking four days. Her niamnuG are now of the si;^e of a full-grown orange; and the dimensions of the pelvis are, in iny opinion, such as to enahle her to l»ear children when 8 years old, and very likely sooner.” Campbell re})orts ^ a case where the catamenia set in a few days after birth, and occurred regularly at periods of three weeks and two or three days. This continued till .she died, at the age of 4 years. The post-mortem appearance was like that of a girl of 10 or 11, the mamma? and external genitals having the appearances proper to pulierty. The development of the pelvis and of all the deep-seated genitals was very considerahle. Iv. 15. Smartgives a table of eight recorded cases, and describes in full detail a case coming under Ids (observation, witli two accompanying photographs of the patient. The catamenia in this girl appeared at 3 years and G months, and the down on the pubes shortly antecedent to that. Bouchat narrates'^ the history of a girl, Nelly 0., and the appearance she ])resented at the age of 4 years. She had loeen horn witli the breasts notably enlarged, commenced to menstruate at the age of 22 months, and at the time of examination joresented the appearance of ])uberty, as regards her breasts and genitals. ^Menstruation in her case was - Xorth. Journ. Med., 1845. ■* Qaz. d. hC>p., Paris, November 1S7(.>. ' Am. Journ. ^[cd. Sc., vol. xi. ^ Med.-Chir. Trans., London, 1858.PREMATURE SEXUAL DEVELOPMENT. very regular in its recurrence, lasting four and six days, and equivalent in quantity to that of an adult. In an article on “ Early I’uberty ” Harris classifies precocious menstruation under two varieties—(1) occurring during infancy; (2) between the ages of 7 and Id years; and records a case, coming under his own observation, of a girl in wlioiii menstruation appeared at the age of 91 years, and in whom tlie other evidences of puberty manifested tliem- selves. 0. E. Harle ^ records tlie result of a post-mortem examina- tion on a child wdiich had commenced to menstruate at the age of 5 months, and this returned regularly till the four- teenth month, when the child died of diarrhoea. The pudendum was large and clothed with hair, the uterus was large, the os patent, and the lips congested, the vessels of the broad ligament were injected, and both ovaries were cystic. The other cases I have noted under tliis category are the following;— j Author. Menstruation Commenced. External Appearances. Sir Astley Cooper in Med.-Vhir. Trans., 3 years. In breasts, axillre, and on London, ISlS. pubes. Thomas Einbling, Lancet, London, 2 Mammae and pubes. 1848. Dr. Aveling, ibid., 1866, gives a refer- ence list of sixteen cases by different observers. Proeliownik, Arch. f. Gynaek., Berlin, 1 „ In breasts, axilhe, and on 1881. pubes ; internal organs Berry, Med. Press, London, for 1882. 5 yrs., 4 mths. not enlarged. Breasts and genitals. A. van D(Miveen, Am. Journ. Obst., 4 months. Mamina! greatly enlarged. N.Y., 1883. Four of the following cases are cited by Pozzi in his “ Gynecologic ” :— Calmde, Gaz. vied, de Paris, 1883. 8 „ Rapid development. Wallentin, “Inaug. Diss.,” Breslau, l:f years. 1 1886. j Casati, Raccoylitore, Fano, 1886. 8 ,, Rectal examination. I Diamant, Interned. Min. Rundschau, 8 uterus pubere. External genitals. j Wien, 1888. Jagoe, Xew Fork Med. Journ., 188P. 9 a- J, J) ^ Brit. Med. Journ., London, 1880, vol. i. p. 8-18.4 CLINICAL PAPERS. Table of Cases of Uvariotomu in Infants and Girls under Thirteen, mainl;/ from Bland Sutton. Heiiorter. Afre. Reference. | 1 Kiister. 1 1 year, 8 montlis. Deutsche vied. Wehnschr., Leipzig, 1883. .1. F. Hooks. 2 ,, d ,, Am. Jourit. OOst., N. Y., vol. xi.\. Kidd . 2 „ 11 „ Obsl. Jourii: O'f. Brit., London, vol. viii. Alcock. 8 years. Lancet, London, 1871, vol. ii. Schwartz 4 ,, 3 years, 5 months. Arch. f. Gynaek., Berlin, Bd. xiii. Thomas Am. Journ. Ohst., X. Y., 1880, vol. .xiii. Thornton 4 years. Med.-Chir. Trans., London, vol. Ixx. l5oldt . 4 ,, Trans. K. Y. Path. <S'oc.,1888. Mears . t> years, 8 months. Phil. Med. Times, Xov. 1, 1871. Ewens . 7 years. Unpublished. Thornton 7 ,, BHt. Med. Journ., London, 1881, vol. ii. Lucas . 7 ,, Trans. Clin. Soc. London, vol. xxi. Halliday Groom . Edin. Med. Journ., Feb. 1893. Guppies 7 years, (3 months. Richmond and Louisviile Med. Journ., 1875 (see Edin. Med. Journ., vol. xx.). Spencer W'ells 8 years. Brit. Med. Journ., London, 1874, vol. i. Leopold 8 „ Arch. f. Gynaek., Berlin, Bd. vi. Ghenoweth . 8 years, b montlis. .4m. Journ. Ohst., X.Y., vol. xv. Peaslee 9 years. “Ovarian Tumours,” p. 59. Malins. Lancet, London, 1890, vol. i. Dickinson . 10 Trans. Path. Soc. London, vol. XXV. Wagner 10 .. Arch. f. ktin. Chir., Berlin, 1884, 1 Bd. XXX. Emmet 10 ,, Am. Journ. Ohst., X. Y., vol. xiv. Halliday Groom . 11 Trans. Edin. Ohst. Soc., vol. xiv. Jouon . 12 .. Gaz. hchd. denud., Baris, 1869. Barlow and Marsh 12 ,, Trans. Clin. Soc. London, vol. xi. Keith . 12 ,, Brit. Med. Journ., London, 1878, vol. ii. Lee, Robert . 12 ,, Med.-Chir. Trans., London, vol. xliii. Gri filths 12 ,. Trans. Path. Soc. London, vol. xxviii. Schultze 12 ., ! Drufschr Ztschr. f. jirakt. Med., Leipzig, 1876. Wegseheider 12 ,, Bcitr. z. Gchurtsh. v. Gynaek., Berlin, 1870. 2. The indication of a sexual preniatniity, as manifested by tlie outward signs on the breast and the ])ndenda, nn- a.cconi])a,nied by a menstrual discliarge, is unusual. Few5 PREMATURE SEXUAL DEVELOPMENT. - “Traite de gynecologic.” ^ Med.-Chir. Trans., Loudon, 181-3. instances of this have been noted, but that described by 'William Cook ^ is distinctive enough. “Louisa Flux was born in 1802. Up till her fourth year slie was remarkably thin, but apart from this there was no abnormal feature. The external pudenda now became pro- minent and covered with a (piantity of dark hair. 'Witliin four months of her death, which occurred on October 1, 1800, she began to suffer from convulsions, after which she increased enormously in weight, and her complexion Ijecame ilorid. Her cheeks were downy, and her lip was covered with so much hair that it might he said she had a 1)eard. Her voice, formerly shrill, now became strong, and her whole contour was that of puberty, except the l»reasts and the general stature. The post-mortem appearance ; Ho change had taken place in the internal organs of generation, the ovaries and uterus not having received that increase of size which is usual at puberty. The mons veneris and labia pudendi were as prominent as at perfect puberty, and covered with long; black coatiim hairs. Menstruation had not taken place.” 3. Menstruation occurring without any change in the genitals is not so unusual as tlie preceding, but even thus it is rare for a child to hav^e the catamenia established for a period of years without other phenomena presenting themselves. Fozzi cites - Bernard’s case, reported in the I^yon mid., 1887, of a girl who menstruated regularly from birth up to the age of 1 2 years without any development of her external genital organs. In the same class may be included those cases noted by the following authors:— Allbutt’s ^ case, wliere menstrual discharge occurred period- ically until tlie youthful patient died of exhaustion. Med.-Chir. Trans., London, 186(3.CLINICAL PAPERS. 6 Author. Reference Work. Development. Menstruation. Iinpreg’nation, Delivery. State of Child.7 FRE MA TURE SEX UA L DE VEL 0PMEN2 Clarence Harding reports^ that in a family of two (laughters, both suffered from periodic discharge, lucmorrhagic in character, and in the elder of whom the dischai-ge vanished, only recurring when puberty was estaljlislied. 4. Many remarkable instances of eaify pregnancy have l>een put on record l)y trustworthy authorities, the majority of which cases in this country have occurred after the age of 12. There is, however, in Continental literature, no great scarcity of pregnancies reported as occurring at a much earlier period. The table of cases on p. G, which I have collected from various sources, has been arranged in precedence of age. Idie majority at least bear evidence of being reliable. 5. It has lieen asserted tliat among the causes tending to produce changes in the sexual apparatus, }»eculiar to puberty, we should include neoplasms affecting, or related to, the internal generati\'e organs. This woidd appear, however, to be far from the usual rule, and rather the exception. With a view to ascertaining the fre({uency of this occurrence, I have examined the records of twenty-six laparotomies performed on children under puberty, and in one case only does there seem to have been signs so marked as to arrest the attention of the operator, so far as to give a description of the child’s appearance. On this occasion the narrator and (^)perator was Mr. If. Clement Lucas. Besides tliis. Dr. Keith remarks rey;ardino' one of his ]>atieuts, a girl of 14, that she was very tall, and had an unusually large (piantity of black hair on lier liead, al)out tlie genitals, and on the pul)is. Slie liad never menstruated. ]Mr. Lucas gives his report.- The cliild was ;ct. 7, and liad had a lueiiKU’rliagic dis- charge from the vagina, wliicli recurred whilst slie remained in hospital. Tlie mamma! were firm and alxuit the size ' Lancet, London, 1879, vol. ii. ji. 71. - Trans. Clin. Soc. London, 1888.CLINICAL PAPERS. 8 of oranges, the mons veneris ot nnusnal elevation, and covered ^s■it]l hair about 1 in. in length. There was a tnniour of the right ovary, which was removed, and the child made a good recovery. The vaginal discharge disap])eared, and the mammary ])roniinence subsided before leaving hospital. The case which formed the l)asis of tliis paper was sent to me by ])r. Forsyth of Flye- mouth. Her history was as follows:—She was a child a*t. 7, sutfering from a large abdo- minal tumour. I’revious to IMarch of this year she had l)een perfectly well, lu-esenting no abdominal symptoms what- ever. In this month she was raped by a boy on several occasions. Immediately there- after she had a i)rofuse luenior- rhagic discharge from the vagina, which continued almost uninter- ruptedly until her admission to hospital in the month of Xov- emher, namely, seven months later. Shortly after the ra])c her abdomen began to swell, and gradually enlarged, until, on her admission to my ward, she had a tumour about the size of a seven months })regnancy, with the following measurements:—Vertical, 71, in.; transverse, 7\ in.; left oblicpie, 8 in.; riglit obluiue, 7 .1 in.9 PREMATURE SEXUAL DEVELOPMENT The impression on her admission to iiospital was, that tlie tnmour was a pregnancy, notwithstanding her extreme youth, and tliis was very consideral)ly empluisised l»y the fact that lier mamnue were largely developed, that there was a well- marked linea nigra passing from the nmhilicus to the pubis, tliat there was a co})ious develojmient of hair over tlie mons veneris and the external surface of tlie laljia majora, as shown in the accoinjianying illustration, and that a well- marked bruit could he heard on both sides of the tumour. The tumour was freely movable, tense, and firm, but had apparently no intimate connection with the jielvis. This want of connection with the cavity of the pelvis, as well as its absolute solidity, notwithstanding the apparent indications otherwise, decided me against the jiossihility of pregnancy. Under anaesthesia, therefore, I examined the patient per vaginam, and found the remains of the hymen thick, but completely penetrated, the vaginal walls being smooth, and the cervix enlarged, very soft, and somewhat patulous. The sound was then introduced into the uterus, which was found to be enlarged, being slightly over 3 in. This manipulation caused free luemorrhage. The possibility, then, of pregnancy in a hihorned uterus naturally presented itself, hut a pro- longed examination of the patient—by no means an easy matter in a child—satisfied me that the tumour was uncon- nected with the uterus, as this organ could be mapped out l)imanually, and the conclusion arrived at was that it was a pediculated ovarian. In considering the question of pregnancy, the pelvic measurements were taken, and found to he—interspinous, 8 in.: intercristal, 8| in.; external conjugate, 6j in. It is especially noteworthy tliat tlie development of her pubic hair, the uterine lifemorrhage, and the growth of tlie abdominal tumour, as well as the appearance of the linea nigra, were all phenomena entirely subsequent to the interference with her genital organs, and therefore apparently conseiiuent u]tonCLINICAL l^AL^EKS. lO lier iai»e. In the same connectiuii it is well to observe the mother’s statement, that the mainline were enlarged to such an extent at birth that the development of mammary abscesses was feared. J'his goes far to show that the child had a tendency to jtrecocity in development, which only re(piired the stimulus of the rejieated sexual acts to mature the activity both of the uterus and ovaries. Her mental develoi>- ment was rather under average. The o]»eration was undertaken on the llbtli November. On cutting through the alidominal parietes, the bluish surface of tlie tumour at once indicated its true character. There was some degree of ascites. ’J'lie tumour was as})irated, but only a small (piantity of sero-sanguinolent fluid was with- drawn. There were no adhesions, and the tumour was yierfectly free in every direction. The abdominal incision had to be enlarged up to within in. of the ensiform cartilage, owing to the fact of the tumour being absolutely incompressilile. It was removed through the abdominal wound, and found to be attached to the left side of the ])elvis by a long yiedicle, which was secured in the ordinary way. The Fallo])ian tube was greatly ilistended and tm-tuous. 'I’lie ovary on the 0])]>osite side was (piite small and un- developed. The tulie on the same side was hvy)ertro])hied. 'riie uterus was enlarged, corres])onding to the dimensions indicated l»y the sound ])rovions to oy)cration. The al>dominal wound was closed, and the child made an uninterrujtted recovery. The chart showed the usual temperature curve in ovariotomy ]»erformed on children. The tumour weighed over 6 lb. Its surface was smooth and soft, and its walls were very vascular, lu its substance were a number of cysts sc])ara.ted by loose septa, which were very fragile. 1 he cystic contents were grumous or oelatimms and trans])arcnt lluiil. The micro.sco]tic a])y)earances were those of a ra])idly growing round-celled sarcoma with mucoid degeneration in ]iarts.FREMA TUKE SEX UA L DE VEL OP ME NT 11 Oil the lltli Jaiuuirv 1898, tlie child was examined under chloroform before dismissal from hospital. The mammary outline is much less distinct, and the dark areola has somewhat faded. The liuea nigra is less distinct, but tliere appears to he rather an increase of hair on the pubis. The laliia minora, which had been large and dark, have now assumed a normal size and colour, and are less gaping; while the vaginal mucous membrane, previously dark and injected, has become of a normal pinkish colour. On vaginal examina- tion, the cervix is found to be small and closed, and to have resumed its infantile form. The sound now only enters to the extent of 2 in., being a full inch less than before operation, and there is no lueniorrhage from the vagina.On Some Peculiar Jielatioiis of Abdominal and lAlvic Tumours. 'J'he object of tlie present coniimniicatiou is to place on record some cases of al)doininal tumours wliicb have had exce})tional and peculiar relations. That it is often the unexpected which occurs is e(pially true in alidominal surgeiy, as it is in daily life, and perhaps in no department of surgery do unlikely complications occur more fre(piently than in that to which I now refer. I have no intention of discussiuu: difficulties and mis- takes in diagnosis, botli of which are grave and fre(pient, but ratlier to refer to a series of cases of ovarian, fibroid, and other tumours which ■])re.sented jieculiar and interesting relations. Case 1.— First of all, with regard to ovarian tumours, the acconi])anying diagram (Fig. 2) will sufficiently sliow a very unusual position and relation of an ovarian cyst. It indicates a distinct dull area above tlie umbilicus, while be- tween tliat ])oint and the ])ul)es the resonance is clear and tym])aidtic. The tumour was fixed, si)lierical, and cystic, and its nature was a matter of extreme doul)t. On opening the alidomcn, tlie chara.cteristic blue appearance of an ovarian tumour was at once recognised. It was ([uitc free of adliesious everywliere, exce]>t on tlie anterior surface, wbere it was at- tached to the abdominal wall. The pedicle was the longest r have ever seen, measuring 10 in., and was not in the least twisted, which in itself is a I’emarkable fact. It is eipially remarkable tliat tbis tumour should have becomeABDOMINAL AND PELVIC TUMOURS. 13 attached in the up})er ahduineu ratlier than lower down. 1'he history throws some, though little, liglit on tJie peculiar features of the case. The patient was a young lady, iet. 25, sent to me from Ardrossan. INIenstruation was perfectl}' regular; she was in the enjoyment of robust healtli, and complained of no symptoms whatever except distension of the abdomen and occasional attacks of peritonitic pain. For some months previ(jusly she had complained of urinary discom- fort, and two mouths Ijefore I saw her, after a long night of dancing, she fainted, and there- after was laid u}) with abdominal l)ain from slight peritonitis, llevond that there is nothincr in the history of the case of any importance. The usual mechanism of the growth of all ovarian tumours witli long pedicles is, that in the first stage the tumour is in the pouch of Douglas, with the tulje coursino; in front and transversely across the ovary. In this stage the bladder is pressed upon, and discomfort in micturition arises. After- wards the tumour, as I pointed out in another communication, slips out of the pelvis, accompanied often by a certain amount of shock, and tliere is along with it often a torsion of tlie pedicle, usually at the uterine end, and a screw-like action commences, the uterus being left low down below tlie tumour. Fir;. 2. This particular case ofiered obviously an exception to the rule, and tlie tumour early formed adhesions to tlie parietal peritoneum, which possilily prevented tlie rotation of the tumour. As the history showed, the girl did complain of urinary troubles and nothing else, until after a night of ]iro-CLIXICAL PAPERS. '4 loii<>-ed daiiciiiu-, when slie fainted, siilfered for some time after- wards from al^dominal ])ain, and it was tlien tlie tninonr was discovered, t have no doid)t whatever tliat the tumour was freed from the pelvis l>y tlie i)atient’s active exercise in dancing, and that, on esca])ing into tlie alidomen, its rapid enlargement was the immediate cause of the ]»aiu and peri- tonitis. As to how it reached its situation so high up in the abdomen, 1 do not venture to otter an explanation. A history of a tumour like this is, of course, very dilferent from what occurs in intra-ligamentous or sessile tumours, where the uterus is lifted up by the growing tumour, and the neoplasm continues pelvic as w'ell as alidominal dui-ing its life liistory. I may mention tliat the o])eration, as can be readily under- stood, was simple. In regard to the length of the iiedicle. Sir Spencer Wells ^ records a case wdiere he diagnosed a boating kidney, and later operated for an ovarian cyst on the ojiposite side, and then discovered the sipiposed floating kidney was an ovarian tumour with a ])edicle over a foot long. (’ase 2.—A young woman presented herself at the .Hospital with no very definite symptoms, except irregulai- men- struatiim and obscure pelvic pain. On examination, a tumour aliout the size of a small cocoanut was found occupving the ])ouch of .Douglas, displacing tlie uterus upwards and forwards. 'Die tumour was very tense, and, owing to its disposition with regard to tlie uterus, it was diagnosed as a sessile ovarian cyst. (i)n o])ening the abdomen, ami jiassing my hand into tlie ])ouch of J)ouglas, the tumour slijijied up into tlie abdomen. It was quite fi-ee of any adliesions, and 1 was able to lift it out entire witliout securing or ligaturing anything whatever. It proved to bo a simple ovarian cyst, and this was corrobor- ated by the alisence of the ovary on the right side. On putting my liand into the pelvis afterwards, I found no trace ’ Mc(l. Times and Ga:., London, 187S, vol. i. p. 672.ABDOMINAL AND l^ELVIC TUMOURS. surface of tlie tmiiour was smooth, save at one jtoint, where of auy pedicle, and there was no lueiiioiTliage whatever. Tiie Fig. 3. tliere was a little rougliness. The problem, of course, is to account for the method by which this neoplasm was separated from its attaclmients and subsequently nourished. OlCLINICAL PAFEKS. i6 One caiiiKjt but tliiiik that the only possible explanation is, that the small pedicle had l)een unconsciously tom during removal; if that were so, no trace of it could l)e found, and tiiere was no luemorrliage. h'ASE d ])resented some remarkable features. Tlie patient, a married woman, was sent to me as sul'lering from acute peri- tonitis. After the severity of tlie inllamniation had somewhat s\d)sided, slie was found to have a small dull area between the symphysis and tlie uml»ilicus, and a cystic tumour, jiroliahly with a twisted pedicle, was diagnosed. On ojieuing the abdomen, the usual dark ai)pearance of an ovarian tumour, into which blood had been extravasated, was observed. The tumour was adherent to the anterior wall, and, on l)eing separated and removed entire, it was found tliat the pedicle was not only twisted and very small, hut had given way (see Fig. 3) close to the neoiikism. Evidently this sejiaration had taken })lace some time ])revious to operation, because tlie pedicle was dry and firm, and there was no indication of luemorrliage. The jielvic end of the pedicle was not secured, for the very good reason that it could not he found. Case 4 I record simply as a curiosity, because 1 am not at all sure of its nature. The facts are these:—E. M. was sent to the Hospital by ])r. Lindsay of Lalfron, and the case seemed a simjile parovarian tumour, which extended u]»wards to 1 in. above the umhilicus. After opening the abdomen, and e.xposing and tapping the tumour, which was jiale in colour, one slight adhesion to the abdominal wall was secured with catgut, and thereafter the tumour was siniph' pulled out of the abdomen by my assistant, tliere being no further adhesion and no apparent attachment to any pelvic or abdominal organ. J he fluid was absolutely clear, like water, and the tumour was not ovarian, because the ovariesABDOMINAL AND PELVIC TUMOURS. 17 were intact. What it really was 1 regret to say I cannot tell, because the preparation was unfortunately destroyed immediately after the operation, through some misunder- standing. Here, again, it is remarkaljle that a tumour of such size should have maintained an independent existence in the abdominal cavity, with only a slight adhesion to tlie abdominal wall. I have twice been called up(.)ii to operate on tumours occupying the pouch of Douglas, giving rise especially to l)ladder trouble, and in which, after the lapse of a week or two between the diagnosis and the day of the operation, the tumours have completely disappeared, rendering, of course, operative interference unnecessary. As no operation was performed, and fortunately no autopsy necessary, I can only surmise that these tumours were parovaiian cysts, whose contents were perfectly harmless, which had ruptured and collapsed. I have seen a somewhat similar case of a pear-shaped tumour on the left side of the uterus in a woman ait. 35, married, with three children, suffering from constant pain in the side, premenstrual dysmenorrhcea, menorrhagia, and leu- corrhcea. From the shape of the swelling, the symptoms it gave rise to, the easy recognition of the ovary, and the apex of the tumour running into the uterus, I regarded it as a dilated Fallopian tube. Between seeing her at the hospital and her return for operation, a fortnight later, the tumour had entirely disappeared, leaving nothing but a slight fulness in the fornix. As no untoward symptoms resulted from its dis- appearance, it was either a ruptured hydrosalpinx or a hydrops tubae profluens. Case 5.—Another remarkable case of a disappearance of an abdominal tumour is that of Mrs. >S., who was sent to me by Dr. Jolm Moir of St. Andrews, in January 1895. She was admitted to my ward, suffering from a large abdominali8 CLINICAL PAPERS. cystic swelling, situated rather more to the right side than to the left. Her history was, that she had complained of pain and swelling in the right side for two years, and during the past five months tlie tumour had considerably increased, while the pain liad become much aggravated. The })atient was markedly cachectic in a])pearance, so much so, that in spite of the un- doubtedly cystic character of the tumour, it was believed to be of a malignant nature. Three days after admission, al.)Out 8 P.M., she suddenly complained of great exacerbation of pain, so that the administration of morphia was necessary. There- after the patient passed and continued to pass all night an enormous (piantity of dark-coloured urine, and in the morning it was found that the tumour had entirely disappeared. From that moment the patient’s general condition improved, and u]-) to the present date there has been no return of the local symptoms. Case G.—A still more remarkahle case, which must be very exceptional if not unique, and which I have recorded elsewhere,^ may not he without interest in this connec- and introducing my fingers into th great ease I lifted u]) the tumour. Fig. 4. * Trans. Edin. Obsf. Soc., tion. It was, in l)rief, that of a patient who was admitted to hospital suil'er- ing from ju’emenstrual pain, menorrhagia, and sterilitv. On exiimination, a firm, hard tumour, about the size of a billiard ball (Figs. 4 and 5), was found Iving in the ])ouch of Douglas. I decided to remove it, and on opening the abdomen the pouch of ] )ouglas, with ur, winch was free of any ., vol. xiv. p. 97.ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC TUMOURS. 19 attacliment of any kind. Xo ligatures were recjuired, there being nothing to secure, and there was no ha?niorrhage. The [»atient made a good re- covery, and subsequently hecanie pregnant. The walls of the tumour, on examination, were found to be those of the Fallo- pian tube much thinned, and tlie contents old blood clot. It was therefore a case of luematosalpinx, whether from an early extra-uterine pregnancy, it Fig. 5. is impossible to say. I know of no other possible explanation of this anomaly. So far as I can discover, I can find no reference to detached ovarian tumours or cystic tumours without some definite relation to an abdominal or pelvic organ. It is true that Sir James Simpson ^ says he has seen several cases in the dead body, in which tumours were lying free in the abdominal cavity, but he gives no details, and evidently refers to fibroids, as he says that the tumours had no connection with the uterus. Witli regard to some of the tumours I have just referred to, they must be very rare, but tlie case is somewhat different when we come to speak of fibroids; and they may be in tliis connection looked at under three heads:—(1) Fibroids with slight attachments to the uterus : (2) those actually detached ; {o) those detached from the uterus, but adherent to other structures. 1. With regard to semi-detached fibroids, the followiusr two cases may be of interest, in winch the pedicle presented peculiar features, with unexpected results in dealing with it. ^ “Diseases of Women,” p. 667.CLINICAL l^AI^ERS. 20 I'he first case I saw with Ur. JJrysdale of Uimfermliiie. Its history is long ami tedious. Suffice it to say that tlie operation was undertaken, on account of long and continuous lui'inorrhage, and the presence of a tumour in tlie pouch of 1 )ouglas about the size of a large orange. On opening the abdomen and ])ulling the tumour up to tlie surface, it was found to be a suliperitoneal fibi'oid, wliich could be easily dealt with. Tlie pedicle was small and thin, and, having }iassed a needle through it in the usual way, so as to ap]»ly a ligature })revious to removal, and while gently tightening it, the ligature came away in my hands, while the tumour remained in those of my assistant. Naturally I expected alarming hamiorrhage, but there was very little, only a slight oozing from a small denuded surface on the posterior wall. The peritoneum was drawn together over this surface, and the ovaries then being removed, the ojieration was speedily completed. The other similar case occurred in hospital, and was so exactly similar to the foregoing, that I need not repeat the details. The interest of these cases lies in the peculiar nature of the pedicle, and explains how tumours may become completely detached from the uterus. In most cases of subperitoneal fibroids the pedicle is firm and fibrous, and is continuous with the tumour on the one hand and the uterus on the other. In these two cases the fibrous tissue was entirely absent, the pedicle consisting of only two layers of peritoneum, and tni removal the denuded surface of the uterus was quite smooth. It can 1)0 easily understood that a tumour like tins, situate in the pouch of Douglas, would be a considerable time in se])arating; but, had it been free in the abdominal cavity, one can easily imagine that it would drag on the thin vascular peritoneum, interfering with the Idood supply, and ultimately causing se])aration. Such conditions of ])edicleABDOMINAL AND PELVIC TUMOURS. 21 would account for some of the second class of subperitoneal fibroids, namely— 2. Those which are fouud free iu the abdominal cavity. Although these are referred to in most text-books, I have had considerable difficulty in finding reference to actual cases. I have not met with any in my own experience. Turner ^ refers to a case in which a calcareous fibroid was found free in the pouch of Douglas, and Depaul ^ found a fibroma entirely free in the same situation without any adhesions whatever. I have already referred to the post-mortem cases mentioned by Sir James Simpson. 3. As to the third variety, they occur apparently much more frequently; that is to say, cases which have either l)ecome spontaneously detached, and formed adhesions with other viscera, or, while still remaining attached to the uterus, have become adherent to other structures. It is one of the characteristics of fibroids that they are, unlike ovarians, quite free, and do not readily form adhesions with surrounding structures. And yet a few well-authenticated cases are recorded, in which a pediculated subperitoneal fibroid has severed its connection with the uterus, and formed adhesions with other parts, and thereby derived its nourishment. Thus Homans ^ reports a uterine fibroid, which had 1)een completely separated from the uterus, and had caused death 1)V intestinal obstruction, it havimj formed adhesions with the intestines, and was nourished apparently from the omen- tum. The tumour weighed 2^ lb., and on this one case Homans insists strongly on the removal of all subperitoneal filu’oids to prevent a similar accident, which, considering the frequency of pediculatetl suliperitoneal fibroids, and the rarity of intestinal obstruction from tins cause, seems a somewhat ’ Edin. Med, Jouni., 1861, p. 698. - BiiH. Soc. anat. de Paris, tome p. 1;'. ^ Boston Med. and S. Journ., vol. .\x. ji. 16.1.CLINICxlL PAPERS. 2 2 uimecessaiy radical operation, lliiguier ^ and Nelatoii ■■ cacli record cases in wlncli snbperitoneal filn'oids have become inde])endent of tlie uterus, and attached tlieinselves to some part of the ])elvic circumference. Sir James Paget,^ liowever, points out tliat fibroid tumours found in the pelvis, unattached to the uterus, sometimes are not the result of separation of tlie pedicle and adhesions to neighl)Ouring parts, but are really ])rimarily tumours of the muscular tissue of the round liga- ments, or utero-vesical or utero-sacral folds. 1 have not myself met with any detached uterine filu’oid tumour which had formed connections with surrounding structures, l)ut I have met with one which, attached to the fundus anteriorly by a long pedicle, had prola])sed into the ])ouch of Douglas, and there formed extensive adhesions to the rectum. It was removed witli considerable difficulty, and its removal resulted in a cure of long-standing dysmenorrhoea. Although it scarcely falls within the scope of this i)aper, it seems a suitalJe opportunity to refer to an exceptional relation of the liver and kidney respectively. As both of these cases have already been recorded elsewliere, I merely make a general reference to them now. The first was a case sent to me from Broughty-Ferry, where 1 found a large tumour occupying the whole abdomen, and which 1 could feel, ]>er vaginam, projecting into the pouch of Douglas. It ]>roved to l)c a large sarcoma of the liver. The other cuse was one in wliicli a patient, a multipara, sulfered from extreme ]>elvic and lumlnir pain, and on examination I found a mass Ifigli u]) in the ])Ouch of Douglas, and which 1 con- ceived to be a ])clvic, probably ovarian, tumour. However, on opening the abdomen, it was found to be the lower end of a floating kidney. I liave ventured to record these cases simply because ’ Gaz. d. hop., Paris, 1860, ]). 411. ^ “Surgical Patliology,” p. 110. = Ibid., 1862, p. 77.ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC TUMOURS. such auomalies cau, I believe witli ad vantage, be reported for the benefit of future operators. It always seems to me that the records of mistakes and disappointed anticipations are e([ually if not more useful than tlie records of endless series of successful diagnoses and treatment.A (iroup of Abdominal Sections : (1) Ovarian Tumour with Twisted Tedicle; (2) Cliolecystotomy; (3) IhiLicleation of Ovarian Tumour ; (4) Drainage ; (5) borro-Cmsarean Section. The following- eases of abdominal section present some features of special interest:— 1. A group of cases of ovariotomy complicated with twisting of the pedicle. T have met with four such cases in my last group of sixty. This accident is at once a com- paratively frecpient and interesting one. It is, further, a very serious one, as records of the post-mortem room abundantly show.^ l’erha})S the most complete essay on the subject is that of Knowsley Thornton,- who found fifty-seven cases out of GOO, upon which he had operated. Schroder, out of ninety-four cases of ovariotomy, had thirteen cases of twisted pedicle. Xothing supports the ])lea for early ovariotomy more than these cases. Nothing indicates more clearlv that an ovarian tumour should be dealt with as soon as it is diagnosed. Take three illustrations, one of delayed and two of })rompt interference. Cask 259. iUrs. I\ was seen by Dr. David IMenzies on Ihursday, December 25, in acute suffering and somewhat collapsed. I he pain came on suddenly after some slight exertion, and was localised in the lower abdomen, accompanied liokitan.sky described thirteen cases, of wliicli eiglit wci’c found in tlie post-mortcin room. - Internat. Journ. Mai. Sc., Edin. and London, 1888, vol. xevi. p. 357.25 A GROUP OF ABDOMINAL SECTIONS. by vomiting. When seen later on, the abdominal pain was general and intensely severe, and could only be modified, not entirely relieved, by large opiates. Through the tender abdominal walls a tumour could l)e recognised, cystic in character, and passing up from the pelvis on the right side to midway between pubes and umbilicus. The nature of tlie case was obvious enough. Two days after, the tumour was removed with entirely satisfactoi-y results. The temperature at the time of operation was 10d°, and pulse IdO. The relief to the patient was im- mediate. The tumour showed intense congestion, not only in its walls and contents, l)ut in the tube also. The pedicle was twisted four times. Case 2.'34 was seen l>y Dr. Cappie on September IG, apparently suffering from acute peritonitis, which had come on early in the inorning after an extra exertion in cleaning. Dr. Cappie recognised the general peritonitis, and, passing his liand over the abdomen, felt the tumour. Next day he asked mo to see the case witli him. T 0]>erated two days after, while still the peritonitis was marked, and removed the tumour, which is represented in Figure G, sliowing a well-marked twisted pedicle (tliere were altogether twelve twists), and thougli tlie adhesions were many, they were recent and easily managed. The patient did absolutely well, witliout a single hitch. Compare tliis again with Case 210, which had l.ieen seen early in Xovem1)er 1889, and diagnosed as an ovarian Fig. 6.CLINICAL PA PE RS. 26 iuiiiuiiv, but the recoiniiieiulatiuii of the pliysiciaii wlio saw it was that nothing should l)e done lievond the ajiplication of a handage. This was done. Wliat occurred to lier in the nieantiine I do not know, beyond that she pnrsued her ordinary avocations. In any case 1 saw her six inontlis afterwards with acute peritonitis, d'he ovarian tumour was there beyond a doubt. I oiierated some days afterwards, and found the tumour dark, black, and almost gangrenous, surrounded by numerous adhesions—peritoneal, intestinal, and indeed general. Tliese were managed in the usual way, and the tumour re- moved. The patient died very shortly afterwards, and no wonder. If she had been operated on six months pre- viously, it is as absolutely certain as anything can lie that she would have lieen alive now. The accompany- ing iigure (Fig. 7) shows the pedicle extremely attenu- ated, not larger than a crow- quill. 1 am well aware that Kuowsley Thornton denies that gangrene ever occurs as the result of twisting of the pedicle, but I mean to say that the tumour T now refer to was as distinctly cut oif from all cir- culatory hel]) through tlie pedicle as any tumour could be. It will further show the nature of the tumour, when I say that the adhesions were old and firm, and by no means vascular. It will not be difticult to understand that the tumour was not verv different from a, "aimremnis mass. V ~ O 'I’he sort of growth that Thornton refers to is more a matter of trans])lantation, and occurs in those tumours which Fig.27 A GROUP OF ABDOMINAL SECTIONS. are dermoid, aud which are nourished, even after strangulation of the pedicle, by their vascular adhesions. These three cases illustrate the condition ^'ery fairly. In all of them the adhesions were extensive, and to these, along with the peritonitis, the danger of the case is mainly due. The contents in each case were clotted aud dark fluid lilood. I did not meet with any one containing pus, nor did 1 meet with a dermoid tumour, which Thornton says is so frequent under such circumstances. The diagnoses were not difficult; the presence of the tumour and the sudden aud acute pain over the region of it, with more or less collapse, were sufficiently indicative of the condition. Of course, acute peritonitis very often masks the condition, but a careful examination into the history and local conditions will, in most cases, make the diagnosis clear. It seems very difficult to account for the accident. Tait attributes its occurrence to the passage of ficces down the rectimi. This may be the case in many, hut olivionsly cannot be in all, because the twist is by no means always in the same direction, namely, from left to right, Init frequently from right to left. Thornton suggests that in the cases in wliicli he met with it the patients were multiparous aud young, aud in active menstrual life, and the twist was the result of some sudden accident or strain. He also refers to tapping the cyst, and leaving it as a possible cause of twisting, and I can readily understand how this takes place, though I have not met witli cases of the kind. Alban Doran explains it by the presence of the costal cartilages aljove, aud the pelvic structures lielow, the tnmonr moving freely, laterally, and anteriorly. In two of my cases tlie accident seemed to occur after the tumour liad just emerged from tlie pelvis. Being freeil from the restraint of the pelvic walls, the cyst enlarges rapidly, aud, being movable in the al)domen, the pedicle28 CLINICAL PAPERS. becomes stretched and the tumour tense, so that the move- ment of the intestines and al)dominal walls causes it to rotate on its own axis. It is only by some recurring cause such as this that ten or twelve twists can be accounted for. Any accident or strain may cause one, but the difficulty is to explain the repeated twist. In the two cases 1 refer to, the tumours were known to exist in the pelvis previous to the occurrence of the twist, and in botli cases the patients were conscious of rapid abdominal enlargement. It seems likely that the tilling and emptying of the bladder, giving rise to increased or diminished abdominal pressure, may play a more active part in the production of these repeated twists tlian the rectum. 2. The next case of interest is one of cholecvstotomv. The V %f patient, a married woman, let. 45, was sent to me by Dr. ]\lacleod of Hawick as suffering from "all stones. Slie was sufferiiig }>ain over her liver, and had repeated attacks of jaundice. I could feel no swelling over the border of the liver, only an ol)scure tenderness. As her attacks of jaundice were frerpient, however, and tlie tenderness over the liver, though slight, yet continued well marked, I arrived at tlie same conclusion as Dr. Macleod, that she was sutferiii" from "all stone. The ordiuaiy incision was therefore made in the side, and with some difficulty tlie median fissure of the liver was readied, and the small slirunken gall bladder with difficulty recognised. It was not bigger than a filbert, and was firmly contracted round the gall stones. It was drawn with difficulty to the surface and incised, and two gall stones were extracted. 'The gall bladder was sewn to the abdominal wall, and the fistula treated in the ordinary way. The ojieration was a long, tedious, and difficult one, lasting over an hour and a half. '^1 he patient was well that night and the followiii" dav, but died suddenly with obscure symptoms, and as no post- mortem was allowed, I cannot give any definite explanation of the untoward result.29 A GROUP OF ABDOMINAL SECTIONS. The extreme coutractiou of the gall bladder was interest- ing, and it is entirely due to the information gained from Mr. John Duncan tliat I was able to recognise the gall bladder in its small and attenuated state, he liaving described a similar condition. When the gall bladder is large, and forms a distinct cystic tumour, it is sometimes apt to be mistaken for a kidney ; but when the distension is moderate, the diagnosis of the condition is simple, and the operation comparatively easy. This extreme contraction of the gall bladder rendered it very difficult to bring it to the surface, and still more difficult to stitch it to the walls. Iviister’s method seems to me in sucii cases more satis- factory and much easier, namely, to extract the calculi and close the internal wound. This operation has been performed repeatedly and witli satisfactory results, notably by Kiister,^ Zielcwicz,“ and Stewart.^ Another, easier still, would be the operation of cholecystectomy; but then it has not yet been shown that the gall bladder is superfluous, though two cases have been recorded where the operation was immediately successful, though what w’as the ultimate effect I am unable to say. Though the issue of my case was unfortunate, yet the general result in gall bladder surgery is entirely satisfactory. Dor instance, Mayo Robson had fourteen cases, all of which recovered, not to mention Tait’s brilliant results in this form of interference. Kocher, Sanger, Thornton, and many others, all record lists with a single death. Of course there will always be two great sources of danger both in cholecystotomy and cholecystectomy, namely, bleeding and peritonitis, for one can never Ije sure that the stitches in the gall bladder will hold, for the walls themselves are diseased. Tliese operations are not by any means easy when the bladder is small, as my own case indicates; but statistics ^ Arch. f. Jdin. Chir., Berlin, 1887, Bd. x.xxvi. ^ Ccntralhl. f. Chir., Leipzig, May 31, 1888. “ N. Y. Med. Joiirn., May 25, 1889.CLINICAL PAPERS. 3° show tliat, \vitli due care, they are attended witli little danger, and wliat risks do exist are fully compensated l)y the great relief obtained. Of course the diagnosis of gall stones will always l)e difficult, and twice 1 have refused to operate l)ecause I could not satisfy myself of their presence. Cer- tainly the symptoms are very uncertain, and unless the tumour can l>e felt, the diagnosis is doubtful. d. 1 have been obliged to resort to the enucleation of sessile tumours on three occasions. Those tumours have invariably originated in the lu'oad ligament. They offer, perhaps, the greatest difficulty of any set of cases that I have met with. AVhen such a case occurs, after the hand has been carefully passed round the whole site, and the relation of the tumour carefully settled, one of two things can be done. Make an incision in the peritoneum, say, in the middle of the tumour, and set to work to i>eel the ])eritoneuni straight off it, securing any vessels with force])S as the case proceeds. Ultimately, when the base of the tumour is reached, it is simply lifted out, and the bare, bleeding peri- toneum left beneath. The peritoneum is then ligatured bv an ordinary knot at the base, and the redundant })eritoneum removed. This, however, is not uniformly jiossible. Some- times, as in one of my cases, the peritoneal l)ase was so big and broad that it required to be stitched by a whole series of ligatures. In the one case where I was obliged to do this, the ])atient made an excellent recovery; and in one other case, where the ])eritoneum was easily stripped off, easily ligatured, and equally easily removed, the ]»atieut died, the reason being that in the former case the tumour was small, and the shock comparatively slight; whereas in the other case the tumour \\as lualt as big again as an ordinary full-time pregnancy, and had been repeatedly tapped l)efore I saw her, and the shock on removing the fluid and stripping off a largeA GROUP OF ABDOMINAL SECTIONS. amount of peritoneum was of course corresponding]}' great. Certainly, enucleation of ovarian or broad ligament cysts is an enormous addition to the possibilities of abdominal surgery, and, tliougli retpiiring care and trouble, gives, at least when tlie tumour is small, excellent results. 4. The following case illustrates the need of careful drainage and washino-:— O The most interestiucf of these was Case 201. She was O a lady of 38 years of age, sent to me by Dr. IMacnee of Inverness, and on opening her abdomen I found an ovarian tumour about the size of an ordinary football. After empty- ing the cyst, and separating the adhesions above, I found there was no trace of })edicle whatever. I therefore pro- ceeded to enucleate, and, having made an incision in the peritoneum towards the Ijase of the tumour, I succeeded in separating the one from the other. The remaining peri- toneum and broad ligament had to be secured by separate ligatures in three places. The peritoneal cavity was care- fully washed out, but no drainage tube was used. Three days afterwards patient showed symptoms of internal haemor- rhage ; I tlierefore placed her under chloroform and reopened lier abdomen, and removed several pints of dark foetid blood. I again waslied her al)domen carefully out, put in a drainage tube, and for six weeks there was a continuous outpouring of dark foetid blood. Each day the cavity was washed out; and at tlie end of two months she went back to Inverness quite well. 5. In my last sixty cases of abdominal section there have l)een three hysterectomies, all of which proved successful. The first two were for fibro-cystic tumours of the uterus. The only points of interest about them were, that in l.)ot]i 1 freed the broad ligaments; and what seems to me equallyCLINICAL PAPERS. important, in butli 1 nsed the elastic ligatures, through ^vhich I put ordinary pins, and then allowed the pedicle to slough oir. My previous exi)erience of all forms of metallic clamp had been so unsatisfactory, that indeed, until the three to whicli i now refer, 1 had never had a successful hysterectomy— I mean, of course, by abdominal incision. To the last of the hysterectomies 1 wish to draw special attention. 1. n., ;et. 25, a dwarf, was recommended to me 1)V Dr. Dasil Orr as a suitable case for Ciesarean section, in Februarv 1890. She gave tlie following history:—Slie laid noticed a swelliim’ in her abdomen for the last four months, which was rapidly increasing in size. She had not menstruated since September, seven months ago, but otherwise was in good health. On examination she presented all the usual signs of pregnancy, the uterus l)eing, however, drawn u]t entirely out of the pelvis, which gave the following measurements:— Coiijugata vera . 1^ in. I Interspinou.'=< . . 8;’,- in. Conjugata externa 5^- ,, Intertroclianterio . 10{ ,, Intercristal . . 8f ,, I (Height of patient, 3 ft. 8 in.) Of course delivery ].)cr vias naturcdcs was an absolute impossibility; therefore operation was recommended about the middle of the ninth month ; but as some uneasiness and susi)icious labour syjnptoms showed tliemselves at the end of the eiglith mouth, it was thought advisable to ]ierforni opera- tion at tliat time. Tlie question tlien arose as to the nature of operation to be undertaken, and tlie choice lay between Ciesarean section and liysterectomy by I’orro’s method. Caesarean section has given excellent results in Germany, and the remarkable series of successful cases of Dr. Cameron of Glasgow entirelv bear these out. In my case tlie special indications for a Porro- Gicsarean section were not present, namely— 1. When the uterus is the seat of any disease, such as myoma, which if left behind might soon require removal.A GROUP OF ABDOMINAL SECTIONS. 33 2. When the patient has already been so long in labour that it is probable that the discharge is Ijeginning to decom- pose, or when she has been examined by persons who may easily have in- fected her, or wliere she shows evident signs of infection having- taken place. Although this girl presented none of the indi- cations insisted on, yet to my mind three considera- tions weighed with me in deciding on the Porro opera- tion :— 1. Tlie opera- tion is itself much easier and more rapid than the Cccsarean section. 2. It would, if successful, save the woman from any risk of a similar operation haviim ag-ain to 1)6 performed. 15. There was no object to Ije attained by preserving her uterus. The simplicity of the operation, and the immunity of the patient from any further troul»le, decided the point, and there-CLINICAL rAPERS. 34 fore l’oiTO-Cii‘sareciii was performed on the hOth April last. This was, as I anticipated, sini])le and rapid, il'he incision was made from uml)ilicus to pul)es, and the nterns rapidly ex})Osed. il'lie uterus was pi'cssed up close to the abdominal wound, and made to protrude somewhat through it. I then carried a stnmg elastic ligature over the uterus down to the cervix. 'I'his was the only diificult x»art of the proceeding, and the ditUculty lay in keeping the intestines out of tlie l)ite of the ligature. This ligature was then drawn tight, and lield so. Immediately this was secured, 1 made an incision in the uterus, very fortunately escaping tlie placenta. Tlie foetus was quickly extracted, firm pressui-e being all the while made l )y the elastic ligature. The child when horn showed symptoms of asphyxia; but, thanks to the elibrts of J)r. d. C. Webster,it was with dilficulty resuscitated. After the birth of the cliild, strong needles were inserted throng] i the knot on the elastic ligatures and cervix, the uterus amputated, and the wound closed. The whole operation lasted about twenty-five minutes, and was done under careful antiseptic })recautions. There was no shock whatever. Size of child.—Weight, 4 II). G ox.; length, 17 in. Diameters of foetal head at birth.—O.iM., 4'75 ; F.M., 0T>; S.O.fl, 3'5 ; RP., 3'5 ; B.T., 3 ; B. front., 2‘4 ; tracli. breg., 3'5. The uterine stump dropped off on the thirtictli day after operation. Child and mother both doing well after a. lapse of six montlis. 'file last case to which I venture to refer is one of extra- uterine gestation at term. Case G—when first seen with I)r. Dickson of Xewton- Stewart—presented all the appearance of a woman at full-term ])regnancy; Init her enormous size and the constant pains from wliich she suffered, as well as tlie history of lier case, made Dr. Dickson sus])icious. When I saw her she was suffering from a large al>dominal tumour, reacliiug u}> to herA GROUP OF ABDOMINAL SECTIONS. 35 ensiforiii cartilage, and its dimensions were larger tlian a full- time pregnancy. The history of her case was, that six montlis previously she had suffered, after three montiis’ menstrual suppression, from acute pains in her left side. Accompany- ing the pain there was also marketl collapse, and tlie patient was in imminent danger for some days. From that time until I saw her she had occasionally small luemorrhages, and now and tlien attacks of pain, whicli were most properly attributed to peritonitis. On examination, the foetus could he felt lying oldiquely across the abdomen, and enveloped in fluid. Tlie uterine souffle and foetal heart were plainy audible. Per vaginam the uterus could l)e felt enlarged and to the rigid side, as l)ig as a large jargonelle pear, and separate from the abdominal mass. Tlie diagnosis lay lietween a ]iregnancy in a liicornuous uterus and an extra-uterine pregnancy. I inclined to the latter. She was brought into Edinburg]i, and two days later labour set in in the small uterus. The pains were regular. Gradually the os opened, and the first stage of labour was complete. I introduced my fingers and found the decidua separating in shreds; gradually the labour pain increased in severity, and the decidua were shed off. Then the labour ended, being, it will be observed, an exact counterpart of the phenomena which occurs in ordinary parturition. Three days later I operated, and removed a full-time fcetus. The naked-eye and microscopic anatomy was pub- lished in detail by JJr. Webster later on. From the nature of the case, the death of the patient was almost inevitable. I am indebted to the most careful and untiring work of Dr. A\Abster for a complete knowledge of the nature of the case, which, so far as I know, is unique. The case was found to be tubo-peritoneal, partly extra- and ]>artly intra-peritoneal.The Diagnosis of Early Extra-nterine (lestation, witli Illustrative Cases. Thouuii the ditticulties suiTOundiii”- the accurate diamiosis of early extra-uteriiie pregnancy are nninerons, and for the most ])art well recognised, yet it is at once cnrions and dis- a})pointing to find such a variance of o])inion. For instance, 'I'ait virtually says that it cannot be made until after rupture ; and although this is too general and dogmatic, yet it is, so far as my experience goes, in the main true. Nevertheless Aveliug asserts “ that it has so many prominent and cliar- acteristic symptoms, that its detection is more easy then tlian that of an ordinary pregnancy in tlie early months.” Fames maintains that the diagnosis of tuhal pregnane}' may with ease be made al)out the seventh or eightli week. It would serve no good pui’pose to i-ecapitulate all (»r even a selection of the opinions that have been advanced as to the probability or certainty of diagnosis of early extra- uterine feetation. It seems to me that, in odering any remarks on tlie subject, they shmdd l)e based on personal experience and by tlie record of actual cases. First of all, wliat are the definite signs or symptoms to wliich authors attacli im])ortance in the diagnosis of tlie condition ? and, second, what tlie value of these signs in cases which have come imder my own ol)servation ? Now, witli regard to the signs and symptoms of extra- uterine gestation iii tlie early months, they may be arranged thus. I do not at all mean to say that this is the most satisfactory classification, but it includes the various signs alluded to, and at the same time indicates the value of each.EARLY EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION 37 («) Tlie general and retiex syni})tunis of ])regnancy, especially if the ^iregnancy has occurred after a considerable |)eriod of sterility. {h) Disordered menstruation, especially metrorrhagia, coincident with symptoms of pregnancy; gushes of blood, accompanied l)y severe i)elvic pains, (c) Sevei'C pains in the pelvis; attacks of pelvic pain, followed by tenderness in either iliac region, and other symptoms of pelvic inflammation, (d) The existence of a tumour ; this tumour ])reseuting the characteristics of a tense cyst, sensitive to touch, actively pulsating; steady and regular growth of the tumour, (r) The os uteri patulous, the uterus disi)laced and empty. (/) I’aroxysms of severe and s})asniodic })ain in the pelvis, with general symptoms of collapse, (g) Expulsion of the decidua in whole or in part. Such is the short synopsis of the signs and symptoms uathered from various sources ; and a record of cases which have come under my own observation will form a sufficient commentary upon their indi\ddual or collective value. Case 1 was under the charge of Dr. Byrom Brainwell and Dr. Duddingston Wilson. She was a multipara of 32, who had home two children, the youngest G years old. She had missed one menstrual period, and her second was due on Christmas Eve. I saw her on Christmas Day 1888. The night previous she had been seized with acute pelvic pain, localised to the right side. So violent was the pain, that Dr. Wilson had to keep her under opium the whole night. It was accompanied by slight uterine <lischarge, which had been occasional in the preceding two mouths. Tlie following day she showed marked symptoms of abdominal luemorrhage and collapse, and Dr. Brainwell was called in. In the afternoon I saw her, and was asked to decide as to extra-uterine fcetation. I found her collapsed, the alidomen distended, and evidently filled with blood. Per vaginam the uterus was soft and slightly enlarged ; there wasCLINICAL PAPERS. decidua or shreds; and 1 fear that, under similar circum- ail iudistiiict, thougli perceptilile, fulness in the right lateral fornix. 'J’he ipiestion was pressing—Was it a ruptured tuhal ])regnancy or a lueniatocele ? I confess that tlie nieiistrual suppression, the long interval between the last pregnancy, and the sudden and acute symptoms of collapse, along with the conditions found per vaginam, decided me in favour of an ectopic gestation. [ opened the al)domen, tlierefore, and found it filled witli fresh blood and enormous clots. These I cleared out partially, and then went ilirect to the pelvis and examined lioth uterine appendages. Both of these 1 lirought to tlie surface, examined and removed ; and though I found the ovaries enlarged and cystic, yet there was no evidence of any gestation sac. I was unable to find tlie source of luemorrhage anywhere, and, being unwilling to further jeopardise the jiatient, 1 closed the abdomen. The luemorrhage continued, however, unabated, and the patient died the following day. Xo post-mortem examination was permitted, therefore I am unable to say whence the luemorrhage actually came ; but it is euougli, for the purpose of tlie present communication, to point out that my diagnosis was not borne out by the result. On looking back on such a case, 1 cannot see that I could have arrived at any conclusion other than that I did. The menstrual sup})ression, the acute pain coming in paroxysms accompanied liy luemorrhage, the softness and enlargement of tlie uterus, all ])ointed, it seems to me, conclusively in this direction; and yet the abdominal .section, whatever may have been the cause of the luemorrhage, showed that pregnancy, either intra-uterine oi' ectopic, did not exist. Although ru])tnre usually takes }>lace later on in tubal pregnancy, it is by no means infreipient at the seventh or eighth week. 1 cannot suggest what means there are at our dis])()sal to arrive at any conclusion other than the one I was iorced to, except that there was no history of passage of£A RLY EXTRA- UTERINE GESTA TION. 39 stances, I should be disposed to tlo again as I did, thongli with a feeling both of doubt and misgiving. I do not know that the opening of the abdomen hastened the patient’s death, but it certainly proved the utter in- sutliciency of acting on the generally recognised signs and symptoms of extra-nterine pregnancy. The case was to me more a warning than a lesson, and does not by any means add to onr satisfaction in operating. Case 2.—i\Irs. i\I., married, one child four years previously, was lu'onght to Ward 28, suttering from irregular lueniorrhages. These luemorrhages had been going on for six weeks, previous to which her menses had been suppressed for two months. She complained of constant pain in the right side. The pain was spasmodic in character. On examining over the pelvis, a distinct fulness could be felt in the right side, elastic and tender. On auscultating, a very well-marked bruit could l)e distinguished all over the surface. I’er vaginam the uterus could be felt pushed over towards the left side, and Ixackwards, somewhat enlarged, and the os patulous. Occupying the wliole of the riglit roof of the vagina was a soft pulsating mass, irregular in shape, and very tender to touch. Binianually, the mass seemed about the size of a cocoanut, and the uterus felt sli^htlv enlarged. During her continuance in hospital for a week the tnmour seemed to increase in size, and the pulsations in it were not only felt repeatedly per vaginam, but could be seen and recognised on the abdominal wall. During the week she was under observation the bruit became distinctly louder. She had occasional slight haanorrhages, but no shreds of decidua passed, nor was she able to give any record of having passed any shreds previous to admittance. The diagnosis forced upon me was an extra-uterine pregnancy between tiie twelfth and fifteenth week ; and 1 thiidv that the physical conditions ju.stitied the diagnosis. The40 CLINICAL PAPERS. soullie to which so much importance lias Ijeeii attached was l)reseiit. The pulsating, nii)idly growing extra-uterine tumour was present. Tlie menstrual supjaession and suhse(j[uent lucmorrhages were pre.sent ; and although 1 did not get a record of or find any decidua present, yet the woman’s state- ments with regard to the blood and clots which ]>assed made it more than likely that .some slireds had escai)cd. }lere, then, it seemed to me at last 1 had fallen across a well-marked extra-uterine pregnancy. I accordingly o])ened the al>donien, and came down u])on a lai'ge dark mass lying in the right side of the pelvis. It was soft, and entirely iixed in every direction. All this exactly corres})onded with what one exi)ects in extra-uterine pregnancy. I proceeded to sej)arate the adhesions carefully, and succeeded in freeing the mass after very considerable trouble. T drew it to the surface, aud ju.st as it reached the surface of the al)doniiual wound it ruptured, and a considerable quantity of blood esca])ed over the abdomen. I ligatured the pedicle aud removed it, still believing that I was dealing with an extra-uterine jaegnancy. It was carefully examined at the College of Physicians’ Laljoratory l_)y Dr. Wuudhead and others. No trace of ])regnancy whatever could be found in the sac, and the tunionr was found to he a huge distension of the tube with blood, or, in other words, a lucmatosalpinx. It seems to me tliat the only ])oint in the case which failed to suh.stantiate extra-uterine ])regnancy was the absence of decidua. Eveiy other sym])toni was jaesent. Of course this may have heeu an early extra-uterine ])regnancy in which the ovum lunl been absorbed ; Imt there was no trace either of chorion or decidua. I do not discuss this ])oint; 1 only mean to say that the ordinary ])hysical characteristics of ])regnancy were wanting in the sac.EARLY EXTRA-UTERIEE GESTATION. 41 Case 3.—On Xoveiiiber 25, 1890, 1 was asked to see ]\r. Ik, who gave me tlie following history :—On November 20, 1889, she was confined of a second child easily, and made a gO(xl recovery. INlenstrnation returned ahont tlie third niontl). On Angmst 21, 1890, she had a miscarriage, a])])areiitly ahont eight weeks. On September 22 following, her menstrual })eriod occurred, apparently normal. Tliere was no menstrual discharge in October. On November 1 tliere was a qnasi- nienstrnal discharge, which was thonglit to he menstrnation, hnt it disappeared in a few hours. There was frequent re- cnrrence of this discliarge tlironghont the month of Novenilier, coming on in the morning and disappearing in the afternoon. On November 20 I saw the case. There was a distinct swelling on tlie right side of the ntern.s. On the 28th an entire decidnal cast of tlie nterns came away ; slight pains wei'e complained of. The decidua was examined ^’ery care- fnlly, said to he complete, and considered of six weeks foi'ina- tion. No ovum, however, was found. On November 29 the patient was seized, ahont 0 r.M., with violent pains in the region of the stomach and right iliac fossa. These lasted ahont half an hour in a very severe form ; then they aliated. I saw her shortly after this, and found the swelling larger and more tender. On Decemlier 1 the severe pains in the stomach and iliac I’egion returned, llelief was obtained by a large opiate. Coloured discharge continued to come at intervals. t)n 1 fecemlier 12 I saw the patient after she had severe pain ; there was a distinct swelling behind the nterns, continuous with a swelling on the right side. There was pain and dis- comfort in })assing water. The question which all along had been present to my mind was that of extra-nterine pregnancy. From the fact of the entire escape of the decidua, which, so far as my reading goes, is exceptional in cases of ectopic gestation, I was disposed to think that the ovum had escaped, and that the pregnancy was intra-uteriiie, and that the swell-CLINICAL PAPERS. 42 iiui; might bo <i lut'iiiiituoolo. Still, tlie paroxysmal pain on the right side and the slight enlargement of the swelling con- timietl, and therefore I kept a strict wateh on the patient, (iradiially, little by little, the tnmoiir on the right side heeame more cystic, more tender, and more elastic to toncli. H;cmoi'i'liage continued from time to time from the uterus, and well-marked paroxysmal pain was i)resent every four-and- twenty hours. I did not use the vaginal stethosco})e. No auscultatory sounds could be heard through the alidomen, but the enlargement of the right side tumour, gradual and definite, was a suificiently characteristic symptom, and that, superadded to the passage of the decidua and the enlargement of the uterus, led me to the conclusion that the patient was suffering from an early extra-uterine gestatioii. The local examination was conducted with the utmost care, and the uterus, enlarged and heavy, was found shifted to the left lateral and postei ior side of the ]>elvis. il'he cystic mass which 1 have just described occupied the right side. The mass felt particularly tense and elastic, and gave the impression of l)eing about double the size of a large orange. It was very tender and painful to the touch. On JJecember 2G, having decided that the case was one of extra-uterine pregnancy, the further interference was readily enough settled. Of course, anv treatment other than that bv abdominal section was not entertained. I therefore opened the abdomen on the 2()th of last Oecember, and came on a firm resistant mass in the right side. It was firmly adherent in every direction. ’’The great dillicultv was to find a place to commence the work of separation and removal. I was sur- prised to find the mass so fixed and so solid. From my ])revious examination per vaginam, 1 expected to find it elastic and fluid, and much more mobile. r began by ligaturing the proximal end of the tube, and, alter freeing the adhesions and separating the broad ligament and peritoneum, 1 ligatured the distal eiul and the Itroad43 EARLY EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION. ligament below, and so removed the mass. I left in a drainage tnbe for some hours. The patient made an uninter- rupted recovery. The macroscopic and microscopic examina- tion proved it to he an extra-uterine pregnancy aljout the eighth week. This case proves beyond rpiestion the possibility of deciding tlie presence of an extra-uterine foetation, and removing it succe.ssfully before rupture, provided only pains and care be taken in watching the symptoms as tliey develop. “ Any man who gives an opinion that he diagnosed a tubal pregnancy, merely upon the unaided discrimination of .symptoms tjr the dim light of a pelvic examination, I regard with so much suspicion, that I do not accept his evidence for argument, save under exceptional circumstances.” Such is Tait’s opinion. It is certainly not wanting in strength. Now, the record of these three cases shows very plainly the difficulties which surround the diagnosis of extra-uterine pregnancy, not only before but after rupture; but the case which I descri1)e last goes far to show that, with careful watching, a case of early extra-uterine pregnancy can be tliagnosed with a verv considerable amount of certainty. Certainly there is no one symptom or sign, such as in ordinary pregnancy, which is pathognomonic ; and, more than that, there seems to bo no one symptom or sign which is even of greater value than another ; Imt upon the following four grounds, if seen early and watched carefully, a diagnosis can be made with a very great amount of precision :— 1. The general signs of pregnancy—for example, the cessation of the menses. '2. The displacement of tlie uterus to one side by a tumoiir, which gradually grows. Tlie pa.ssage of the decidua in wliole or in part, and irregular luemorrhages. O OCLINICAL rAPERS. 44 4. Tlie presence of paroxysmal pain localised to one side, though not to one s])ot. All those conditions innst he present, but my cases seem to show that the essential point is passage of the decidua. In the first two cases this did not occur, and that was the weak ]>oint in the diagnosis; in my third case, where the diagnosis was made accurately, tlie ])assage of the decidua and the suhse(|uent rapid growth of tlie lateral tumour placed the nature of the case to my mind lieyond disjmte. Indeed, tliese three cases would seem to show tlie converse of what j\Ir. Tait insists on. He seems to imply that extra-uterine pregnancy can only he diagnosed after the rn])ture of the gestation ; hut it would seem to me that there is more difficulty in recognising the condition then with exacti- tude, tlian in forming a conclusion, after careful watching, as to the presence of an extra-uterine pregnancy before rupture. The whole (piestion turns upon the point—whether the case is seen sufficiently early to admit of careful examina- tion of it lieing made at intervals, liefore a definite conclusion is arrived at. I have avoided s]leaking of oiieration; Imt there is this much comfort, that whatever the nature of the tumour may lia])pen to he, so long as the uterus can he carefully excluded, the sooner the tumour is removed the better. Cask 4.—The fourth case was sent to me by ])r. l)oig of (lalashiels, and diagnosed by him as an early extra-uterine jiregnancy. I’lie jiatient was a young married lady. She had missed two jieriods, and had irregular lucmorrhages accomjianied hy jiaroxysmal pain. On the right side she had a soft elastic swelling. The uterus was ]iushed over to the left side, and was soft and enlarged. She passed anEARLY EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION 45 entire decidual membrane after coming under my care. With the assistance of Dr. Doig, I opened lier abdomen and removed an extra-uterine tubal pregnancy about the third month. She made an excellent recovery, though a sinus remained for some time afterwards. This case entirely bears out the conclusions arrived at in regard to the former cases.l\vo Cases of Extra-iiteriiic Cestatioii Operated on after Kuptiire, at the Fourth Month. I liave frequently oi)erated earlier, but only twice have 1 been called upon to operate on an extra-uterine ]iregnancy l)etween the fourtli and fifth months after i'U]»ture. T1 le record of these cases is as follows :— On the 2nd of June 1894 I was asked by Dr. iMacdonald of Cupar to see witli him Mrs. lb 'Die history (4‘ her case was, that she had l»een married for two years, and had menstruated regularly till February. In March there was amenorrhcea, but in A]all, at tlie time corresponding to the menstrual period, the patient had some slight discharge of Wood, accompanied by severe sjiasms of pain in the left side. Tliese symptoms, with rest, gradually disappeared, and tlie patient seemed well again. However, from tliat time up till the day I saw lier, she sutfered from irregular luemorrhages and ]iains in tlie abdomen, especially in the left iliac region. Dr. iMacdouald ol)served the gradual (levelopment of a. tumour on the left side. Though carefully watched for, no traces of decidual menil)rane were oliserved. On examination, the existence of a swelling on the left side, liard yet doughy, and growing up from the pelvis to near tlie umliilicus, was very evident. Fluctuation could not lie detected, nor could any souflle he heard over it. Per yaginam, the utenis was tilted u]i above the synqdiysis pubis, and lying behind it was a boggy swelling continuous with the abdominal mass, the whole hcing fixed but not specially tender. The sound entered the cavity of the uterus MI in.47 CASES OE EXTRA-UTERIAE GESTATIOX. From the history of the case, ami from the examination made, I came to the conclusion that tlie patient was sulfering’ from an extra-uterine gestation, growing within the hroad ligament, and therefore still extraperitoneal. 'Hie patient was removed to Edinl)urgli on June 11. After examination, under chloroform, I was unable to make out anything furtlier, except tliat one could hear over the tumour a pulsation whicli very closely reseni- l)led that of a ftetal heart. Tlie ([uestion of operation now be- came urgent. As waiting until tlie full term ottered no advantages, beyond the very distant pos- sibility of a living- foetus, and it seemed much easier to deal with a sac and pla- centa at this stage of <levelopment rather than at full term, I decided to operate. I opened the aljdomen in the middle line, it would have l)een much more convenient to ha^'e made the incision over the site of the tumour. On reaching the sac wall, T found it thick and vascular, and as tlie slightest touch with the knife caused profuse lunmorrhage, I cut through the wall with the tliermo-cautery, and re- cognised that I had opened tlie sac in the site of a portion of placenta. I found the cavity of the sac tilled with blood clot, which was carefully cleared out. I then found that. Fig. 9. a proceeding which I now regret, as48 CLINICAL PAPERS. attached to the wall of the sac, and near to, hut not con- nected with, the placental mass, through which I first had cut, there were five or six little masses which felt like placental tissue. These, along with the main ])lacental mass, I removed. On sul)se(pient examination, they were shown to contain villi in vari<nis stages of degeneration. I was surprised to find no trace of either ftetus or cord, although very careful search was made for Ijoth. After some time, at the base of the sac, towards the poucli of Douglas, I dis- covered a small aperture, through which 1 gently puslied my finger, and then found a second sac, prol)ahly as large as a Jaffa orange. This sac contained Ijlood clot only, and no trace of a fcctiis could l)e discovered there either. Both sacs were then carefully washed out. I was very reluctant to close the operation without discovering the foetus, but of course there was no alternative left. The walls of tlie sac were then stitched to the al)dominal wall, and the cavity packed with iodoform gauze. The patient remained in a very collapsed condition for thirty hours, hut gradually recovered from tlie sliock. Two days afterwards tlie gauze was removed, and the cavity washed and drained in the usual way. Thereafter she made an excellent recovery. This was evidently a case where a tubal pregnancy had, without any severe symptoms, slowly ru])tured l)etween the layers of tlie liroad ligament. The })rimary sac was first opened, and the secondary sac was reached deep down in tlie ]>elvis. The ([uestion at once arises—In a pregnancy so far advanced, and with well-marked placental tissue, what became of the fictus ? Xow, in a somewhat similar case some years ago, I o])cned a, sac equally large, and removed nothing but blood clot. AVhether that was an extra-uterine pregnancy or not, in the light of recent develop- ments, I do not ])rofess to say. This I do know, that in that special case absolutely no trace of placental tissue could be found. It was otherwise, however, in the case beforeCASES OF EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION 49 us now. In cuttinc!; throuu’h the sac wall with the thermo- cautery, I passed through a mass of frialde placental tissue, and detached over the interior of the sac I found smaller pieces of altered placental tissue separate and distinct from the lai'Lrer mass. As to the nature of this tissue, it is sutlicient to say tliat, after being subjected to microscopical examination, it was proved to contain villi somewhat enlarged and greatly degenerated. Some of the larger villi, especially here and there, were distinctly distended, and gave the appearance almost of a mucoid condition. I had before me a very distinct recollection of a case of extra-uterine pregnancy recorded by Dr. Hart to the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society, where he found no foetus at the time of operation, but where the foetus ultimately escaped from the gestation sac some days later on. I was therefore prepared to make a specially careful search for a foetus, but neither in the })rimary sac nor in the secondary could a)iy trace of it be found. Tliere was no cord, and the sac wall was entire, so that the foetus coidd not have escaped into the abdominal cavity. It seems to me that the explanation of this case is to be found in the altered condition of the chorion. Early, no doid3t, in gestation, degeneration of the placenta had set in, probably in the direction of myxoma, and, as is well recognised in intra- uterine myxoma, the foetus had perished and been absorbed. A similar condition came within my observation in intra- uterine pregnancy some time ago. It was as follows:—The patient, let. 54, was sent to me suffering from uterine hiemor- rhage, which had gone on for many months. It was supposed to be a uterine polypus. I found the uterus enlarged about the size of a four months’ pregnancy, and after dilating the cervix expected to find a large intra-uterine polypus. In lieu of that I found the uterine cavity filled witli old blood clot and some fresh blood as well. I cleared this out, and found irregular rough masses attached to the posterior uterine wall. 4CLINICAL PAPERS. 50 These were removed, not without very considerable hiemorrhage, and proved to be pieces of degenerated placenta. As in the previous case, some of the villi could be found very much enlargetl and distended. Xo foetus or trace of foetus was found, and at no time was tliere any record of a ftetus having passed ; and as the patient was very careful in her observations, and had no reason to conceal the truth, I feel confident tliat nothing of the nature of a foetus did pass. 1 neeil not further enlarge on this case, except that it is interesting to have pregnancy occurring at 54, and that such a complication is a very rare factor in the production of hamiorrhage so long after what is usually recognised as the fertile period of a woman’s life. Of course the rpiestion naturally arises. How long had this condition lasted ? And, as far as I can discover, the longest duration of a myxomatous gestation is fourteen months; so, therefore, in any case, as the symptoms of luemorrhage had been present for five months, it is more than probable that the duration of the pregnancy had been eight or ten months. Another very interesting feature in this case was, that a week afterwards large pieces of decidua were passed. Evidently the decidua had l>een adherent, had exfoliated, and been expelled. This of course is a very rare coincidence, because usually, in this disease, the chorion and decidua are so adherent that they come away together. To return to the extra-uterine })regnancy we are consider- ing. It would seem, therefore, that the condition of tliis extra-uterine ])lacenta was one analogous to an earlv intra- uterine myxoma. Xo doubt I did not find the gestation sac filled witli tlie usual vesicles, the growth and development of wliich would have caused an early ru])ture; the cause of rupture here was the accumulation of blood from tlie diseased placenta, and this accumulation was slow, and, even wlienCAS£S OF EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION 51 it had distended the tube, the rupture was small, and the symptoms to which it gave rise were practically nil. In brief, I wish to point out that in a case such as this, the failure to find a foetus is in no way inconsistent with what occasionally happens in intra-uterine pregnancy. The chorionic villi had been abnormally developed, not to the extent as occurs in the typical myxoma, where the whole cavity is tilled up by the well-known vesicles, but the nutri- tion of the foetus had been so impaired by the abnormal development of the villi, and the degeneration of the placenta generally, that the foetus had perished and been absorbed. The other case to which I wish to refer is one that presented an equally easy diagnosis, and where the result of the operation itself was more satisfactory, though the ultimate issue of the case was fatal. The case runs as follows :— iMrs. M., ret. 32, admitted to Ward 28 on November 22, 1894. Complaint.—Pain in the left side, lasting for two years. During the past month this pain was very much aggravated on three occasions with symptoms of collapse, continuing for a few hours. History.—Menstruation.—Up till two years ago, normal and regular; since then, marked premenstrual dysmenorrhoea, and on the first and third days of the flow. Has not men- struated for the last eleven weeks. Famihj.—Four children, the youngest, let. 3|; one niis- carria!J:e between the second and third children. Present illness.—On October 22, having missed two periods, patient lifted a heavy weight and felt “ something crack ” (as she said) in her left side. Two days after, severe pain set in with collapse, lasting for two hours, and this was followed by slight vaginal Inemorrhage. Subsequent to this date, before admission, she had two other similar attacks.CLINICAL PAPERS. 52 Ou admission, the physical exaininatioii revealed a well- defined swelling, reaching 2 in. above ronpart’s ligament on the left side, and on vaginal exainination the uterus was felt low down, soft; and behind it, in the pouch of Douglas, an ill-defined swelling could he determined. On November 23 (the day after admission) patient was still in a critical condition of colla})se; pulse 150, small, and temperature 96°, while the severe pain continued. However, she gradually improved, and in a day or two was very much better in every way. On December 2, after the continuance for some hours of severe bearing-down pains, what proved on microscopic examination to be a decidual membrane, was passed, and after this the patient seemed much relieved, and improved so much, that at the end of ten days she wished to leave her bed. On the morning of December 21, patient collapsed again, a more or less continuous hfemorrhage going on for thirt}"- six hours. Dulse was almost uncountable, and indeed, for an hour on the afternoon of the 22nd, it could not l)e felt at all. During her residence in hospital the tumour had gradually grown upwards to within 1 in. of the umbilicus: and, after tlie attacks of December 21 and 22, it rose rapidly till the uj)per limit was 1 in. above the umbilicus. I’atient having rallied from this last attack of internal luemorrhage and collapse, she was placed on the o])erating- table on December 27. The abdominal wall was cut through slightly to the left of the middle line, when it was found that the sac wall was intimately adherent to the parietal peri- toneum. On o])ening into the sac, a large amount of blood clot escaped, and it was then determined that the sac extended in three directions—downwards into the pouch of Douglas, across the middle line 2 or 3 in. below the level of tlie um- Inlicus, and upwards to within 2 in. above and to the left ofCASES OF EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION 53 the umbilicus. The lower part of the sac was filled with l)lood clot only, and this was shut off from the upper part by fairly strong organised tissue, probably part of the Fallopian tube forming the original sac. The lower part having lieen cleared of blood clot, I pushed my finger through the septum into the upper, and here 1 found a large amount of Idood clot; but besides, from the left side, I was able to remove a large amount of placental tissue, and here also I came upon the umbilical cord. On tracing this up- wards, I found the foetus, wdiich showed no sign of decom- position, was be- tween three and a halfand four months, and was easily re- moved. The whole sac was then thor- oughly cleared and washed out, and thereafter packed with iodoform gauze. A few stitches were used to ensure the adhesion of the sac to the al.xlominal wall. The whole interference was therefore entirely extraperitoneal. Fatient did well after tlie operation, but still maintained the rapid pidse which had continued since the last luemor- rhage. The gauze was removed on tlie evening of the 28th, and the cavity thorougidy irrigated witli weak corrosive solution, and a drainage tulje inserted. The washing out was Fkj. 10.CLINICAL PAPERS. 54 continued every six iiours, and everything seemed satisfactory, except the rapid condition of the pulse. On tlie 29th, at 7.30 r.M., the pulse, whicli had been fairly constant at 120, became irregular and intermittent. In spite of stimulants, the condition did not improve as the evening went on, and the patient died somewhat suddenly at 11.30. Post-mortem.—Considerable lioemorrliage was found beneath tlie lower sac, in the pouch of Douglas, and an ante-mortem clot, several days old, was found in the right lieart. This case presents no features of special interest. It is a very characteristic case of an extra-uterine tubal preguanc}^ rupturing about the twelftli week, between the layers of the broad ligament. There were four distinct indications at different periods of lueniorrhage and extended rupture. In comparing the two cases, however, witli regard to causation, it is very interesting to notice tliat tlie first occurred in a young woman of 27. She was a primipara, who had absolutely no indication of pelvic disturbance liefore her pregnancy, and the latter case had a history of two years’ constant pain and premenstrual distress, so that to whatever extent desipiamative salpingitis, or some such lesion, may account for the latter, it is extremely difficult to offer any explanation of the former. As regards the mortality, it was just. the converse of what 1 should have expected. Tn the first case the abdominal cavity was opened into before I reached the sac, and the patient remained collapsed for more than thirty hours; while, in the second, the o])eration was entirely extraperitoneal, and the ])atient did well for two days, and then died some- what suddenly, and evidently from the effusion of Idood into the poucli of Douglas. 1 shall always regret that 1 did not leave the iodoform gauze in longer, because 1 believe the continuous ]>ressure might have i)revented the luemorrhage and saved the jiatient.Sessile Cysts. Sessile cysts form a variety of ovarian tumour which is always of special interest, both with regard to their management and diagnosis. Ovariotomy is now so tlioroughly well under- stood, tliat one can nearly always rely upon a fairly accurate diagnosis and on uniform success. Formerly many of the individual operations in a series of abdominal sections were described by the surgeon as having l)een incomplete, due to the fact that the operator discovered the wall of the cystic growth in most intimate connection with the peritoneum and appendages, or the base of the tumour lirmly adherent in the pelvic cavity, and where removal was apparently an impossibility. From the table of cases on the following pages I give only two in detail, respectively ISTos. 352 and 353 :— Case 352.—On per vaginam examination the uterus was found to Ije small, and no trace of a tumour was revealed. On 0})ening the aljdonien, one was immediately struck with the dee]), dark red, congested ap])earance of the tumour, and the large veins which ramihed in great variety over the surface. Its walls were extremely tense. It presented characteristics, in short, closely simulating a pregnant uterus. On passing tlie hand into tlie abdomen, I found no adhesions ; on carrying it deeply down into the right side of tlie ])elvis, I felt the tumour to Ije continuous with tlie uterus itself, and no sus- ])icion of a ]>edicle was to be discovered; on tlie left side the ])eritoneum seemed to lie so reflected as to prevent the hand ]»assing further down than the lirim of the pelvis.CLINICAL PAPERS. 56 The tumour having Ijeeii aspirated, and its contents-— clear, limpid, and in (quantity about three basinsful—with- drawn, the nature of the case was recognised, namely, a sessile tumour connected witli the right broad ligament. I accordingly proceeded to deal with it by cutting thrijugh tlie capsule, and little l>y little separating the cyst wall therefrom, d'his I was al)le to accomplisli completely, excepting tlie portion above referred to, on the riglit side of tlie uterus, wliich was so closely incorporated with the wall of tliat organ that it was necessary to ligature the connection in three places, remove the cyst, and drop the so-called pedicle back into the abdominal cavity. The bleeding capsule remained and formed a deep cavity, X>assing tu the very floor of the pouch of Douglas. I removed its redundant parts, but found it impractical ile to deal with the portion in the pelvis and pouch of Douglas in any other way than liy sewing its edges to the wound, and draining. Case 353.—The abdomen being opened, the usual Idiie a])pearance of an ovarian cyst presented itself. It was tapped with an ordinary trocar and cannula, and several basinsful of a thick e,Tunious fluid drawn off. The tumour had a few unimportant adhesions, and was without difficulty turned out through the abdominal wound. It was then found that there existed no pedicle whatever, the whole pelvic part of the tumour being encapsided in broad ligament, which had in due course to be i)eeled off bit by bit, and the cyst shelled out. As it had not dipped very dee])l}', however, 1 succeeded in sewing up the remains of the capsule by continuous suture and dropping it back in the al)domen, treating it, in fact, as an ordinary intraperitoneal ovarian stum]), without any drainage. This is evidently one of a grou]) of cases s])ecially referred to hy Doran, winch is compound in its nature, the upper portion being true ovarian in its character, and therefore free, the lower p(_)rtion developing from the hilum of the ovary, and57 SESSILE CYSTS. growing downwards between the layers of the broad ligament. Hence the upper portion offered no difficulty, while the lower portion was sessile and intra-ligamentous. From a clinical aspect, cysts of the internal generative organs may he classified as follows:— 1. Arising from the ovary, and loosely connected to the appendages by a pedicle. 2. Connected with the lu’oad ligament, also pedunculated. 2). Having their origin in the ovary, or in one of the structures situated in the broad ligament, burrowing in the broad ligament, and ultimately extending beyond that struc- ture to gain attachment to the pelvic walls or to the viscera— sessile cysts. The scope of the present paper does not permit of my entering into any consideration of those small sessile cysts which frequently affect the appendages, but whicli are not of sufficient magnitude to be of any clinical significance. Within the last decade sessile cysts have obtained a new interest in abdominal surgery, inasmuch as, in a great majority of instances, they are capable of removal, no doubt with con- siderable difficulty, by a method of treatment designated “ enucleation.” The tumours which incline to spread beyond the broad ligament into the pelvic cellular tissue, or extraperitoneally into tlie abdomen, are in the majority of cases— 1. I’apillary cystomata (Olshausen), paroophoritic cysts (Bland Sutton). 2. Parovarian cysts (cysts of the broad ligament). .'b Other broad ligament cysts. Bland Sutton recognises three distinct reg:ions in the appendages, which give rise to their own peculiar cysts. These are— 1. The obphoron, giving origin to the usual ovarian multilocular and unilocular cysts ; [Continued on j^age 60.CLLVICAL PAPEJTS. 58 Table of Cases of Sessile Tumours.SESSILE CYSTS. 59 irk la; ce <D 1=1 O -p ^ ^ ^2 '5 o «—I o - . 5i' . ^ S ^ ^ _ o o o -*-5 “^ns ^ • F- .i; ^ C c» o -*;e O 5^ t£)-M <1) ^ 1-^ *7^ CD i-( o o r;; ^ c? o *“♦ _i_a O O ^ QJ s c S 5 o </} o .2 '~C o ;3 's-J 2 1: ^2.2 I 'S S CO O ^ r— o tJt) -«-> f—t o p^ -*-i o o o • r-. 4-:> o CO P c3 S til ct *p ^ o ;-. c5 c3 > > O c— O !>> O o o 'o ""C CO CO s ° o o as w c5 -. O cs r -s ®| 2 1 c3 O b ^ to sc 2,-2 2 'S ^ -*^ "^2 s © 5 <D to cs 2 ri .2^ cn ^ Tl" ? .2^ F- o - « ti ^ .;4 O =3 rt 3 r3 O £ > osi-s^ .2 M) ° -*-> C3 -*-^ CO .^- CO >> O < -> CO ^ ^ ® CO P ^ to Q> 2 li t- a ^ 1-3 y: Ti c3 -2 so OS c3 -4-) ^ — CO ^ o CO S -3 <» c3 o ^ ‘i!! 00 ^ 2 ^o 5 2« S) 5 ^o p".—. o> ce tfr:= X to w ■p a> <-H JQ Cm o o c3 o o o to XX X <1 2 ‘C p-T 2 ^ " ^ T^- i) s ^ .2 s ^ ' T, o to o o pO ,to ’o r* « r', O CO O CO . P . 1-3 tO^ O <D ^ ^ O o> .0? . ^ . • is CO Q ^ - C: c o ci X o > a o 0 — 0 ;=H p . c ^ ::r . i3 cPJr CO X . UM ««5 s pi b—1 0>rz ^ *<. pi o CM O •M rP , , o oi CO Ci o — "Ti lO <CD O o KO uO uO :o •M “M 'M CO CO CO CO CO CO CO COCLINICAL PAPERS. 6o 2. Tlie paroophoron, producing papillary cysts; and 3. The parovarian—the source of the parovarian cysts. In addition to these origins of tninonr growth, Tait considers that the horizontal or Giirtner’s tnbes, which can occasionally ])e traced down the uterus and along the vaginal walls, are occasionally occluded at intervals, and to the remnants which remain patent there is tlie possibility of degenerating into large cystic formations. I. rAPILLAllY CvSTO.MA OR rAROOFlIORlTIC Cv.ST. Origin. — Olshausen, in 1877, suggested that these growths arose from the parovarium, because of the cylin- drical epithelium and the iutra-ligamentary situation. Since then, however, as the result of numerous clinical observations, he has l.)een led to the conclusion that papillary cystomata must spring from the ovary itself. The paroophoron, or that part of the ovary which, in the adult, constitutes the hilum, is composed of filirous tissue, interspersed with Idood vessels, and into it run the vertical tubules of the parovarium. It is derived from the foetal mesonephros, which has become degenerated ; hence is origin- ally tuljular in cliaracter, which feature may persist after birth. Anatomical characters and relations.—Originating; in the ovary, these cysts pass l)etween the layers of the mesosalpinx, to gain the broad ligament pro})cr, between the two layers of which they burrow until they may even pass beyond this structure. AVliilst still small they do not aHect the appear- ance of the true ovary, as an ovarian tumour does, though ultimately the ovary may become incor])orated and lost in the wall of the tumour. At no time do they ever reach the huge dimensions attainable by a multilocular ovarian ; nevertheless they may, as in Case 304, pass superiorly beyond the um- bilicus, and inferiorly deep into the pelvis, so as to be felt imniediatelv on introducing the finger into the vagina.6i SESSILE CYSTS. Whilst the tmiioiir is yet of small size it may be uncon- nected to the uterus or other organs, but as it increases it separates the layers of the broad ligament, until it receives a broad base of attachment to the side of the uterus. With the growth of the cyst, the uterus is elevated in the pelvis, and becomes pushed to one or other side, that is, if the tumour l)e unilateral; and a bilateral position in these cases is not uncommon, being also generally ante verted. The further spread of the tumour is in the direction of cellular tissue, beyond the broad ligament, l>etween the uterus and rectum into the pouch of Douglas, or into the retro- peritoneal space proper, coming in contact with the spine and the great blood vessels situated there ; oi’ it may proceed between the folds of the mesentery, being in intimate relation to the walls of the intestines. More rarely it passes anteriorly between the uterus and the bladder, which it iuv^olves in its progress until it has reached the abdominal wall. One such case I operated on, which turned out to he a large suppurating cyst, which had been mistaken for a vesical tumour. After long draining and washing out, tlie patient made an excellent recovery. When the tumour is bilateral, tlie uterus is dragged upon till it is raised out of the pelvis, and the vagina appears, on examination, to be increased in length and diminished in caliljre. The uterus may he indistinguishable, being en- croached upon from either side l)y the tumour mass till it is completely involved. The cysts often contain a large number of papillary growtlis, which fill the smaller cysts, then rupture them, and finally may even burst through the primary cyst wall; after which they extend to the neighbouring organs, or the}' may perforate througli the floor of the cyst and grow into the sub- jacent organ, thus fixing the tumour. The parts chiefly affected thus are the pelvis, uterus, rectum, and bladder. The smaller cysts are mainly filled witli papillomata, the largerCLINICAL PAPERS. 62 cysts may liave only a few nodules studded on the internal surface of their walls.. These ])apilloinata are generally of small size, being no larger than a walnut; but, in tlie case previously alluded to, 1 removed two cauliflower-like masses, one of the size of a walnut, and one, which was firmly adherent to the pelvic structures, of a diameter greater than that of a large orange. These tumours are rare before the 25th vear, and occur most frc(|uently l)etween 25 and 50. Occasionally, they are associated with dermoids and sarcomata of the ovary. One of their most notable features is their great tendency to metastasis. When ru])ture of the cyst takes place, there is a rapid and often fatal papillomatous infection of the peri- toneal surfaces of the abdominal cavity. This speedily gives rise to ascites, which, after the peritoneal cavity has been depleted, rapidly accumulates again. Tortunately, however, it is not the invariable result, as, after removal of the primary tumour, the metastatic growths sometimes cease to develop further, and ascites does not result. II. Parovakiax Cysts. In descriliing tlie nature of these tumours, and of cysts of the broad ligament, I have followed the more recent theories regarding their origin and pathology, especially those advanced by Doran, as they seem to me to give a l)etter scientific ex- planation of the clinical manifestations than has been presented hitherto. Their true origin can only l.ie arrived at after careful investigation, not only of the large, fully developed cysts, but of the relations and position of such smaller cysts as are pro tempore of no clinical significance, but which have the inherent ])ossibility of a further increase only limited by the pelvi- al)dominaI capacity. Oidy those cysts which originate in some part of the63 SESSILE CYSTS. parovarium, or Wolffian relics, can l)e truly designated “ parovarian.” In the adult the remains of the Wolffian body are represented l)y Kohelt’s tubules; the horizontal and the vertical tubes, permanent and occluded, of the parovarium ; and the remains of (uirtner’s duct. The cysts which arise from the vertical tubes of the parovarium are similar in pathological appearance to those tumours already described as arising from tlie hiluni of the ovary. At first, while diminutive, they can be recognised by their position, as occupying tlie site of the true parovarium, or, if they arise from the obliterated portion, then appealing between the straigiit tubes and the uterus; but when the cyst has increased in size, and has parted asunder the layers of tlie broad ligament, and tlie ovary lias become altered in configuration, it may be only matter of conjecture whetlier it be of parovarian or paroophoritic origin. Their appearance is similar in all respects to those previously described. Their wall is lined by cubical epithelium, whicli in the early stages may be ciliated or cylindrical; usually they contain clear fluid, tend to the pro- duction of papillomatous masses growing from the sac wall, and bear a similar character of frequent malignant metastasis. They spread deeply in the broad ligament, and are often a great source of trouble when the surgeon undertakes their removal. From the terminal cyst of the parovarium, and from the horizontal tube, is developed quite a distinct variety of tumour, corresponding in its pathology more closely to the simple cyst of the lu’oad ligament. It is lined l)y a sinqde layer of flattened epithelial cells or endothelium, and in its other manifestations simulates the appearance described as pertaining to those simple broad ligament cysts, although being of true parovarian origin. These cysts may enlarge without being pediculated, mayCLINICAL PAPERS. 64 separate the l)ioad ligament, and Ijecome large, sessile, uni- locular cysts. While admitting tliat ta])])ing of a simjile cyst may sometimes he of advantage, it is siqjerlluous to remark that such a ])roceeding in cysts, which are possessed of ])apilloniatous characters, can l.)e only ultimately detrimental. 111. Othek ]5i;oad Ligament Cysts. Ly these are intended those numerous sini})le cysts of the hroad ligament, often of large sixe, which cannot be sIiomti to have any ovarian or parovarian oi-igin, and wliicli were formerly included under the general term, “ parovarian ” cyst. “ Far away,” writes Doran, “ from tlie parovarian tubes, some minute cysts are often observed, adherent, as a rule, to the anterior layer of the l)road ligament. ... As a rule these cysts, when they increase in size, push apart tlie layers of the broad ligament. I have invariably found that their inner layer is endothelial. It is often from a minute cvst of this kind, free from the parovarian tubes, that is developed the large cyst commonly called “ jiarovailan,” witli its thin, transparent wall, its single cavity, lined with liat or low columnar epithelium, and its clear, watery content.s.” These simple cysts, althougli not pediculated in tlie sense ill which a multilocular ovarian is, yet nevertheless are com- monly provided with an attacliment free enough to permit of easy removal. Not iiifrecpiently, however, they burrow down- wards beyond the broad ligament, and take on a sessile nature, becoming embedded among the pelvic structures. The latter condition is the one we are now speciallv concerned with, wlien the tumour, jiassing from the broad ligament, reaches the retroperitoneal s]>ace, tlie mesentery of the colon, or the pouch of Douglas. Amitoiiiiccil chcivnctcvs.— Ihese cysts are almost uniformly single and simple, and when it ajipears to be otherwise the65 SESSILE CYSTS. cysts can be shown to be distinct and separable. A few ex- ceptions to this have Ijeen recorded, notably a innltilocnlar by Tait, and a l)ilocnlar by Sir Spencer AVells. Their outline is uniform, and their walls are extremely thin, Ijeing covered by a peritoneal investment distinct from the sac wall, and over which the line peritoneal vessels can be seen to course. This peritoneal layer is generally easily stripped off from the free surface of the tumour. The Fallopian tube is stretched over its surface, to which it is closely applied, until it may have attained a length differing greatly from the normal condition. The ovary also may become approximated to the surface of the cyst, l)ut is never incorporated in its wall, as in the ovarian, or to a lesser degree in the paroophoritic cyst. 'Fhe contents are clear and watery. Tait describes one kind of cyst as being not nncommon in the broad ligament, which develops a large quantity of nn- striped mnscnlar fibre in its walls, so that occasionally it looks almost like a recently pregnant uterus greatly distended. He at tlie same place refers to a cyst of the broad ligament which he removed, the walls of which, when collapsed after removal, were more than an inch thick. Tlie possibility of extirpating these sessile cysts depends greatly on the amount of embedding of the tumour which has taken place, and on the degree of absence of the pedicle. The broad ligament may be separated close to the uterus, and the tumour in close juxtaposition to its wall; or the infnndibulo- pelvic ligament may be unfolded, and a close connection formed with the pelvic muscles; again, the peritoneum may l)e elevated from the pouch of Douglas, and the tumour be- come adherent to the walls of the intestines; or the cyst, primarily unilateral, may pass across to the broad ligament of the opposite side ; or it may raise the peritoneum from the 2:»ara^•esical fascia, and come in relation to the aljdominal wall, so that in operating the peritoneal cavity is not opened into. Haig Ferguson, in an interesting paper on this subject, 566 CLINICAL PAPERS. records a case which came under Ids observation. JJetailed reference to this class of case would lead us beyond our present subject. The iiaper is well worthy of perusal. Although much depends upon the direction in which they grow, the following seems to be the simplest classi- fication of sessile cysts, so far as their origin and nature is concerned :— 1. Ovarian, from the hilum, and usually papillomatous. 2. Tarovarian—(a) either simple from the liorizontal tubes, or {h) paj)illomatous from the vertical tubes. d. Jji'oad ligament cyst ])roper, without reference either to the ovary or parovarian. Diagnosis.—With regard to the diagnosis of sessile tumours, though it is surrounded with considerable difficulty, it can be made fairlv accuratelv. It mav be extremelv «/ 1/ t. difficult in the early period of the tumour’s existence, when it is apt to he mistaken for a broad ligament luematoma. Their slow, steady growth, and the presence of a tense elastic feel- ing, will lead to a suspicion of its nature. Later, they iiecoine less spherical and less circumscribed than other ovarian tumours. They are unilateral or bilateral, and are in close camtact with the uterus, being more or less lixed. Ill the alxlominal examination two points are especially of importance : the one is, that the cyst is usually very tense, and that occasionally the uterus, as in Case 171, can be dis- tinctly felt tiltal up above the hrim of the piclvis, and in the case of unilateral tumours the uterus is shifted to one or other side. But the main point, which, if not absolutely ])athognonionic, is very nearly so, consists in the fact that, on introducing the lingers into the vagina, the vault is found occupied by a firm, tense, resistant mass, and that the cervix cannot be reached, or, if felt at all, only the lip is discovered high up liehind the symphysis pubis, almost beyond touch. (Jf course, I have seen the same produced occasionally by a ])ediculated dermoid ovarian, or by a sacculated pregnant uterus.SESSILE CYSTS. 67 The accompanying figure (Fig. 11) illnstrates a dermoid (Case 39) containing fat and hair, yhicli I removed b}' enuclea- tion. It had no pedicle, and vas so firndv incorporated with the uterus tliat it would admit of removal in no otlier way. Fig. 11. Case 352, which is recorded in full, did not present, per vagiuam, the characters alluded to, and therefore no notion as to its true nature could be formed previous to opening the68 CLINICAL PAPERS. abdomen. Tlie cervix, liowever, wa.s somewhat pushed to the side, thougli there was no bulging into tlie fornices. AVJien the abdominal walls were cut through, and the tumour exposed, the surface presented exactly the a])pearanee of a la-egnant uterus. It was of a deep red colour, highly injected, and with large venous trunks inosculating freely on the surface. 1'hough before the abdomen was opened the tumour felt tense, after the al)d(jininal walls were cut through the consistence of the tumour felt softer and doughy. So exactly did the surface of the tumour tally with the appear- ances presented in a Ca-sarean section, that 1 hesitated for a time before proceeding; and in this connection I would desire to refer to a point that I have not seen mentioned, and which adds to the difficulty of diagnosis, even after the tumour has been exposed. It is this : In most cases a sessile tumour can be recognised, from the fact that the capsule is but slightly, if at all, adherent to the tumour Ijelow, and therefore the tumour can be seen moving underneath it, which of course decides the question as to pregnancy. But in some cases, as in the one at present referred to, the capsule walls are very thick, very vascular, and adherent to the tumour beneath. Hence the condition is masked. Further, it must be kept in view that, on passing the fingers round the tumour, one finds the peritoneal surface of the uterus continuous with that of the cyst, and if the case has advanced considerably, the ])Ouch of Douglas and so-called poucli of Betzius may l>e entirely obliterated, the peritoneal layer passing directly from the surface of the tumour on to the iliac fossa and spinal column. It is impossible, then, to get the fingers into the pelvis, except by the cellular tissue behind the symphysis pubi.s. Treatment.—With regard to operative interference, no definite technique can be laid down for all cases ; each must he managed according to its own merits. Usually, when the tumour is large, and after its nature has been recognised, an incision is made somewhere in the capsule, and a commence-69 SESSILE CYSTS. ment made by peeling oft' the In-oad ligament from the tumour wall. Then the tumour is tapped, and a continuation made in the process of enucleation. In many of these large cysts the whole tumour can he absolutely removed ; in one, indeed, where the contents were very thick, the whole mass was removed without tapping. The Ideeding from the torn vessels in the broad ligament is often very profuse, and must he dealt with as the operation proceeds. Then the redundant peri- toneum is removed; sometimes it can he secured by ligature at the base, and dropped hack; at other times it is better to stitch it to the abdominal wall and drain. AVhen the tumours are smaller in size, a similar process, hut somewhat modifted, is to he carried out ; the tumour is exposed and enucleated so far, and then its connection with the uterus is dealt with by a series of firm stitches; or else, if the exposed cavity he too deep to he treated in this way, the walls of the capsule, after bleeding has been checked as far as possilde, can he stitched to the abdominal parietes, and drained. Frequent washing out may he required for a con- siderable length of time. Aluch assistance in these operations, which often involve consideraljle mauipnlation deep in the pelvis, is to he obtained by the electric light, and sometimes the operation will he further facilitated by employing Trendelenburg’s method of elevating the pelvis so as to allow of the intestines being kept out of the way. Prognosis.—In ordinary pediculated tumours, provided the kidneys are healthy and the patient not alcoholic, a favourable issue is uniformly to he expected. The prognosis, however, in sessile cysts is distinctly less favourable—first, owing to the shock of removing a large surface of capsule ; secondly, from the length of the operation ; thirdly, from the difficulty of controlling hieuiorrhage ; and, lastly, from the fact that in many cases drainage has to Ije relied on. Mortality and cause of death.—Out of the twenty-two casesCLINICAL PAPERS. 70 recorded, there are two deaths, 1 )Oth due to “ shock ”; ami this is scarcely matter for surprise when regard is had to the nature and severity of some of those difficult cases. The peeling olf of a large amount of peritoneum, the lengtli of time taken to accomplish this, the difficulties encountered in seiiarating the large iiapillomatous masses from the subjacent structures, the amount of hiemorrhage, and the fact that it does not lend itself easily to control, are sufficient explana- tion of the greater mortality in sessile as compared witli pedunculated cysts.Glycosuria Complicating an Ovarian Tumour and Ovariotomy. The existence of slight traces of simvar in the urine in late pregnancy and during tlie puerperinin is almost physiological, and of course there is in such cases no relation to diabetes proper ; while the occurrence of actual diabetes, as a serious complication of pregnancy, is well known, as the publication of a considerable number of cases show. But the presence of sugar in the urine in large quantities, complicating an ovarian tiimonr and a serious ovariotomy, is sufficiently rare to warrant me in recording this case. i\[rs. W., £et. 5.3, was admitted to Ward 38, on November 24, 1894. She complained of great swelling of the abdomen, with consequent dyspnoea. Being an excessively corpulent woman, she had not noticed the additional enlargement caused by the tumour until five months previous to admission, though in all proljal)ility its presence might have been detected l>y a physician some months before. As her symptoms began to get urgent, with the growth of the tnmonr, she consulted Dr. Jeffrey of Ayton, who at once sent her to the Boyal Infirmary. AVheu she presented herself at the ward, her appearance was—to say the least—extraordinary. Her height was about 5 ft. 41 in.; her weight, without clothes, a little over 17 stone, and the girth of the abdomen 60 in. Her complexion was pale, the lips somewhat cyanosed, with a distinct growth of hair on the upper lip and chin. Her family consisted of one child, ;et. 14. IMeustruation72 CLINICAL PAPERS. had been norinal and regular up till six niontlis i)revious to admission, when it ceased suddenly, there being no vaginal discharge of any kind from that date. ^Micturition gave rise to no pain or uneasiness, and the amount of urine secreted did not exceed the normal. On examination, however, the urine was found to contain blood, a small (piantity of albumin, and a large amount of sugar; its specific gravity was 1047 ; jievertheless, it contained a normal or diminishetl ]iro])ortion of urea. On November 2G she })assed 2b oz. of urine and 545 grs. of sugar, the urea being about 270 grs. The albumin was due to the presence of blood, the result of cystitis, and disa})peared along with the cystitis under treatment. There was no excessive thirst or a]>])etite ; the thoracic viscera were normal, and the skin healthy, moist, and free from any eruption—not even the labia showing any signs of irritation. Her general health seemed good, in s]»ite of her many troubles. On examination, the al)dominal walls were found to be thickly lined with adipose tissue, a pelvi-ahdoniinal tumour was felt rising as high as the eighth costal cartilage, freely movable, painless, non-fluctuating, and dull on percussion. A resonant note was obtained in both llaidvs. Auscultatorv simis t. O were negative per vaginam, hut little further information was obtained. I’lie cervix w.is very high uj) and atro])hied, the uterus small and lying to the front, and the })osterior and lateral fornices were empty. With respect to the diagnosis, 1 had no doubt as to the miture of the tumour, regarding it as a large colloid ovarian. The nature of the glycosuria, however, re([uired some considera- tion. That it was not a typical case of diabetes was evident from the al)sence of ])olyuria, thirst, etc., and the ([uestion arose. Was it a form of glycosuria which would contra-indicate surgical interference ? 'I’he danger of operating on diabetic ])atients is well recognised by surgeons. Indeed, it has been laid down as a73 GLYCOSURIA AND OVARIOTOMY. law by many that only under extreme necessity, and witli ])articular caution, should any operation he undertaken on a patient suttering from this condition, because of the tendency to the occurrence of gangrene, causing sloughing of the surfaces of the wound, witli septic absorption, rapid collapse, and death; to say nothing of the liability to intercurrent affections, such as bronchitis and pneumonia. (ilycosuria is by no means a common complication of ovarian or other large aljdominal tumours, Imt, taking into consideration the absence of the usual diabetic symptoms, it seemed more probable that it was caused by, and not merely coincident with, the growth of tlie tumour. From November 27 to December G, 2 grs. of codeia were administered to the patient every six hours, the diet being modified within reasonalile limits. This, liowever, produced but little elfect on the amount of sugar passed daily, the lowest record being 340 grs. (10 grs. to the oz.), and the drug began to cause sickness. IMorphia was then tried, with no better result so far as tbe sugar was concerned. As the growth of the tumour was distinctly progressing, and the dyspnoea liecoming urgent, o])eration was decided u])on. Laparotomy was performed on December 12. The alxlominal walls were (piite 4 in. thick. On opening into the peritoneal cavity, a large colloid tumour was found impli- cating each ovary. No difficulty was experienced in removing these and in completing the operation. Tlie two tumours weighed oGl If). A ([uick reaction followed, and for the first six days the pulse never fell below 100, the tem- ])erature remaining about 100° F. for tbe first four days. After this she made a good though slow recovery, and left the hospital ou January 2G, 1805. To return to the (piestion of the glycosuria, it was noticed that, whereas a specimen of urine examined on the morning of the operation contained 12 gr.s. of sugar per oz., a specimen74 CLINICAL PAPERS. drawn oil’ six hours after contained only 5 grs. dliis excellent result was, however, only temporary, as on the following day the sugar was again up to 10 grs. per oz., the total quantity passed being 360 grs. During the first eleven days after the operation no special treatment was adopted, the daily quantity of sugar secreted averaging al)out 370 grs., and on one day (December 18) being as high as 700 grs., the amount per oz. on that occasion being 25 grs. On December 23, mor])liia was resumed, the liq. moiq)h. hydrochlor. being used in 15-minim doses every four hours, tlie diet Ijeing modified to a slight extent. This was followed by an appreciable diminution in the daily secretion of sugar. On December 26, and subsetpiently, experiments were made on urine passed immediately l)efore food and tliat passed some time after. It was found tliat the latter con- tained nearly twice as much sugar as tlie former. From tlie same date, the urine passed during the day and that passed during the night were kept separate. It was thus observed that from 60 to 80 per cent, of the sugar was passed during the dav. t/ On January 2 the morphia was stopped and tlie diet more rigidly restricted to nitrogenous articles. This was followed by no very marked changes for tlie first fortnight. Then the sugar diminished rapidly. On January 10 only 45 grs. were passed in the twenty- four hours. During the several days previous to her dismissal on January 26, only slight traces of sugar were to be dis- covered in the day urine, the night secretion being ipiite free. She resumed her ordinary diet on going home, and has kept (juite well ever since. She forwarded a specimen of urine on IMarch 28, which on examination was found to lie absolutely free from any trace of sugar. Several points of interest present themselves in the study of this case, both with regard to the causation of the glyco-75 GLYCOSURIA AXD OVARIOTOMY. suria aud the effects of treatment. Previous to the operation, dieting and the usual remedies produced little or no diminu- tion in the amount of sugar voided, and even after the removal of the tumour it is very doubtful wliether they hastened in any measure the final disappearance of the glycosuria. It mav he fairlv assumed, from the course and historv of this case, that the tumour and the ylvcosuria stood in the relationship of cause and effect, ami were not merely coin- cident. The ([uestion at once arises. In what way does the cause operate ? In the light of recent research there seem to he two possible cliannels, namely, either by an interference with the glycolytic function of the pancreas, or with the hepatic circulation. It is not the object of this paper to discuss tlie much disputed question of pancreatic glycosuria. Suffice it to say, that most physiologists now agree that tlie pancreas jdays a very important part in regulating the amount of carbohydrates contained in the l)lood. Whether its secretion acts directly on the excess of "lucose in the blood, or so stimulates the liver cells as to favour their glycogenic function, is of no importance in the present inquiry. If the pressure he exerted either ou the pancreas directly, or on its vessels, sufficient to seriously interfere with the circulation in tlie gland, and so diminish or suppress the secretions of this glycolzyme, glyco- lytic ferment, glycosuria will result. The vast majority, liowever, of large abdominal tumours are not complicated in this way. This may, I think, he explained by elasticity of the abdominal walls, allowing of expansion in })roportion to the growth of the tumour, so that the intra-aljdominal tension is not increased in any direction. Given, however, a large, ra])idly growing, solid, or semisolid tumour, and tliick, inelastic abdominal walls, such as ]\Irs. W. possessed, it is easy to see how not only the general pressure may he raised, hut, on account of the arrangement and strength of the recti muscles O O in front, the pressure antero-posteriorly may come to 1)CCLINICAL PAPERS. 76 greater than tliat in any otlier direction. Tims the struc- tures situated on the posterior abdominal wall, in the line of greatest pressure, might suffer nmch, wliile only a slightly increased pressure was being exerted on the diaphragm above or on tlie lateral abdominal walls. In the present case, however, there is an argument against the interference with the function of tlie pancreas having l)een the sole cause of the glycosuria. It is scarcely con- ceivable that the removal of pressure from the pancreas would cause the sudden diminution of sugar which occurred immediately after the operation. Considerable time would be necessary for the establishment of the secretion, and for even the partial development of its physiological action. For a further explanation it seems necessary to turn to the hepatic circulation. It has been ]»roved to the satisfaction of all, by Claude llernard and others, that a hypenemia of the hepatic system, that is to say, an increased arterial supply to the liver, will cause glycosuria, and the exact method by which this is brought about does not fall to be discussed here. No direct mechanical interference with the liver or portal system could have any elfect in producing glycosuria, and it is extremely unlikely that a pelvi-abdominal tumour could interfere directly with the hepatic circulation ; but it is not difficult to imagine that the semilunar ganglion, or that portion of the solar plexus lying in relation to the cadiac axis, may have their vasomotor fibres partially paralysed by pressure. The vasomotor su]>ply for the hepatic artery conies from these two sources, and it, along with others, would dilate, and so cause arterial congestion in the liver, which would continue more or less marked so long as the pressure was kejit up. A sudden relief of pressure, both local and general, in the abdomen, such as occurred at the operation, would act, not so much by stimulating these vasomotor nerves, as by causing a sudden dilatation of the large abdominal vessels, and conse-77 GLYCOSURIA AND OVARIOTOMY qiieiit anreinia of the liver. This would explain the sudden, but temporary, fall in the amount of sugar secreted im- mediately after the operation. The hepatic vessels evidently took some time to recover their former calibre and tone, the process being coincident with the gradual diminution and final disappearance of the glycosuria. These are suggestions merely, of ways in which a con- dition involving processes of great complexity, and issues which are subjects of controversy amongst physiologists, might possibly be explained. The subject lends itself to discussion ; the condition described is, I believe, rare; and I hope that for these reasons this account of a case may be found not without interest.Compliciitcd Case of Double Ovariotomy in a Girl mt. Eio;liteen. (J. S., let. 18, was first admitted to Ward 28 in the Hospital, July 1897, complaining of a swelling of tlie abdomen, which had been mJiced for sixteen months. The patient had never menstruated, but stated tliat at the age of 15 she had some swelling of the abdomen, whicli, liowever, gradually disappeared. Before admission tlie aljdonien was tapped three times, on May 1, June 10, and July 15. She had never complained of pain till a few days before she came into hospital. On admission the patient was very aiuemic, and her face, neck, and chest were much emaciated, the abdomen was enormously distended, and her lower extremities were very oedematous. Examination of the chest revealed the fact that the right pleural cavity was full of fluid, and the apex of the heart was found in the left axilla. The surface of the abdomen showed the presence of numerous distended veins and many recent striie, while the umbilicus markedly protruded. The note on ])ercussion was absolutely dull in every part, while lluctuation was easily determined. The girth of the abdomen at the level of the umbilicus was 40 in. A few days after admission the right pleura was tapped, and 144 oz. of blood-stained serum were removed, and a few days later still, 280 oz. of pinkisb-coloured fluid were aspirated from the abdomen. Thereafter, on examination, the presence of a large tumour, occupying chiefly the left and lower parts of tlie abdominal cavity, was made out. It was very hard.COMPLICAT'ED DOUBLE OVARIOTOMY. 79 irregular in shape, aud presented all the features of a inalig- naiit ovarian tumour, aud as such it was then diagnosed, and the condition was considered a hopeless one. From July 1897 till April 1898 the patient lay in the ward, extremely exhausted and emaciated, although slie never seemed to get specially worse. Exploratory incision, far less any attempt at operation, was not thought of, but, as a matter of tem- porary relief, her abdomen was ta|.)ped regularly once a fortnight, aud fluid removed, varying in quantity from 300 to 500 oz. Examination of the fluid sliowed that it was mainly ascitic. The right pleural cavity was also tapped during this period on four occasions, each time from 100 to 120 oz. IjeiuQ- removed. Tfie cedenia of the lower limbs was also frequently relieved by Southey’s tubes. Gradually one was forced to the conclusion that, since the patient’s general condition had l^ecouie really no worse than on admission, aud since the condition in the abdomen had not changed in any way, the tumour miglit not, after all, he malignant, and therefore it was decided tliat the abdomen should he opened, and, if possible, the tumour be removed. Accordingly, on April 5, 1898, I operated, and removed one of the largest dermoid ovarian tumours I have met witli. It weighed, even after tapping, about 30 11). It had developed from tlie left ovary, and the operation was coni])aratively simple, the pedicle being well defined, and tlie adhesions few and easily separated. I’he right ovary, which was apparently healthy, was left intact. After the operation the patient was extremely col- lapsed, but with free stimulation she speedily revived, and made an excellent recovery. The oedema entirely disappeared, and the extensive general emaciation became more aud more striking, but in the course of a few weeks the patient put on flesh rapidly, and Ijy June 7 was suliiciently well to be sent to the Convalescent House, and a fortnight later she left for home in Shetland.CLINICAL PAPERS. 8o She was readmitted to AVard 28 on Sei)tember 2.0, 1899, when she appeared a tall, stout, well-built, healthy-looking girl. She had menstruated regularly since the last operation. She complained of a swelling of tlie abdomen, which slie had noticed for six weeks l)efore admission. Examination of the abdomen revealed a large hard tumour, occupying the middle line, and growing upwards, especially towards the right side, so that the dulness was almost continuous with that of tlie liver. d'he diagnosis was, that prol)al)ly this was an ovarian tumour occurring in the ovary .which had l>een left. On Xovember 7 the abdomen was opened by a.n incision a little to the right of the ])revious cicatrix, and this, before the operation was completed, had to l)e extended well above the umbilicus. The tumour which came into view was cv.stic, and on puncturing it a large quantity of brownish fluid escaped. The wall in some parts was very thick, and con- sisted largely of soft, fatty-looking, frialde, lobulated tissue, which crumlded away when taken hold of either l)v the fingers or l)y forceps. There were several adhesions, and at one pail the tumour was intimately adherent to the small intestine, so much so that they could not l>e safely separated, and a piece of tumour wall about 4 in. by 2 in. was left adherent to the intestine, after having been trimmed with scissors. The pedicle, which was very broad, was secured l\v two ligatures, and the peritoneal cavity was thoroughly washed out. A drainage tul.)e was inserted, the wound closed, and tlie patient put back to bed. Slie was extremely collapsed, and all the afternoon liad great pain, and was inclined to l>e very restless. She was very cyanosed, and the pulse was small, thready, and very weak. Erandy enemata and other stimulants were given. The tube was removed the next evening, and she gradually improved. The stitches were taken out on the sixth evening. Later, a drv dressing was8i COMPLICATED DOUBLE 0 FA E10 TO MV. put on, and on the 28th, three weeks from tlie date of operation, the patient was up and looking perfectly well. The microscopical examination of the tumour showed that it was a simple cystic papilloma. This case seems to me to present many interesting features, hut probably its chief importance lies in, first of all, the <litticulty of diagnosis when the patient was first seen. The patient was admitted presenting every possible sign of abdominal cancer, except her age, which of course is not of itself preventive, and it was only after she had lain in the ward and had been treated by palliative measures that the abdomen was opened. It must be extremely rare indeed to remove stained fluid from the pleura which is not associated with malignant disease. As far as I am personally concerned, [ have not seen a case before. This is quite in keeping with one’s previous experience, and suQ-gests that in all cases wliere there is room for the least element of doubt, an exploratory incision should be made. And yet how very much oftener, on so opening the abdomen, is one met with disappointment and with the fact that the condition is hopeless. The case also raises the question of the removal of the other ovary at the time of the first operation. In this particular case I have no regrets, for on the first occasion the other ovary was most carefully examined and seemed perfectly healthy, and therefore, especi- ally as the patient was only let. 10, it was left intact. Indeed, even though there had been evidence of com- mencing cystic disease, I think I should have been tempted, if not to leave it entirely alone, at most to remove, if possible, only the ]3art of the organ affected. I admit it is a difficult matter to tell whether an ovary is really diseased or not, because the i)erfectly functioning organs present such differences of appearance; but in this case, at all events, the ovary seemed to be perfectly Iiealthy, and therefore was left. 6CLINICAL PAPERS. 82 Another point is, that where there are extensive adliesions to the bowel, as in this case, and especially where the adhesions are very intimate, it seems to me safer and better to leave })ortions of the tumour adlierent to the bowel, than to peel it off and leave large Ideeding surfaces, or to have perforations wliich require to be dealt with carefully, and prolong the operation.]\littelsclimerz. I do not propose to enter into a general discussion of dysmenorrha?a. The object of the present coinmiinication is to discuss a form of dysnienorrhcea, l>y courtesy so called, which occurs, not at the period when the external manifesta- tion of menstruation takes jdace, hut at mid-term—a condition to which tlie Germans have given an appropriate name, “ IMittelschmerz,” and which the French liave, less felicitously, called “ Dysmchiorrhee intermenstruelle.” Whatever name may he applied to it—and certainly intermenstrual dysmenor- rhoea is not suitable—the condition is a well-marked one, wlierein an attack of dysmenorrhuea proper is simulated, without necessarily any external lueniorrhage. It does not at all resemble the ])renienstrual pain, or the continued pain associated with inilanied or diseased ovaries, but it is a condition which occurs definitely each month, at a definite period and for a definite numher of days. So far as I am aware, the condition was first of all described by Sir William Priestley many years ago, and it has l.)een also discussed by Fasbender and Sorel. I will now recount the more important points of some cases occurring in my own experience, which may he taken as fairly typical. Case 1 was tliat of a young girl, a4. 18, whom I first saw at Professor Simpson’s private clinique somewhere about the year 1873. She coni])lained of acute pain, sometimes in one side and sometimes in the other, occurring with the utmost regularity, fourteen or fifteen days after her menstruation.CLINICAL PAPERS. 84 This had been the case ever since she was 14, ami she did not he'i’in to inenstrnate until she was IG. There was no abnormality, so far as I conld discover, in the ovaries, tubes, or nterus. I saw her more or less regnlarly for thirteen or fourteen years after she first came under my observation. During all that time slie menstruated with regularity, and her internienstrual sutlerings continued. During the years 1 knew her she occupied various situations in the ca]>acity of a liousemaid. She menstruated regularly and without pain, but every month slie was obliged, in order to avoid lier internienstrual suilering, to use mori)liia ratlier freely. She ultimately married and went to tlie colonies, and I know notliing of tier subsequent liistory. Her pain l)egan after a severe attack of scarlet fever when she was about 14 vears old. Case 2 was that of a woman wlio was sent to my ward for profuse hnemorrhage, associated with marked dysmenorrhoea., ill addition to a definite and severe ])ain occurring between the menstrual periods, about the fifteentli day. The ]»ain was severe and localised to tlie left side, and acconi})anied occasion- ally, thoiigli not always, by a sliglit discharge, sometimes of blood, and sometimes of clear fluid. Ou examination she was found to have a uterus enlarged to 31 in., and containing a submucous fibroid on the riglit side. After continued treatment, including curetting, slie was sent home, but returned in a few months witli the symptoms all consideral)ly aggravated. It was resolved, therefore, witli a view to checking the lucmorrhage, which had liecome so ])rofuse as to ])revent the ]iatient continuing lier duties, to remove her ap])eudages. This was done ; the right ovary was somewliat cystic and the tube thickened ; on tlie left side the ovary was normal, but tliere was a well-marked hydrosal])inx. It is worthy of note, as bearing directly u])on the case, that the woman was ;ct. 35, and she liad siiifered from inter-85 MITTELSCHMERZ. menstrual paiu only for live years. It will therefore be seen that this case differed entirely from the last one, in which the condition of intermenstriial j)ain had existed from childhood. Two things, consequently, are clear al)Out this case—first, that the condition was distinctly an ac(|uired one. Were it due to some condition of the ovary, then the mittelsclimerz sliould have been on the right side, whereas tlie pain was on the left, where the ovary was normal. Secondly, if it were due to })ainful ovulation, occurring independently of menstrua- tion, then it would have been expected that the intermenstriial pain would not have lieeii of siicli recent origin. It is there- fore by no means unlikely tliat this rare condition may l>e due to the over-distension of the Fallojjian tube with fiuid, and that the pain of the mittelschmerz is associated with its expulsion. This question of hydrops tubie profiuens I shall discuss later on. Case 3.—A woman, let. 25, was brought to St. Luke’s Home some years ago suttering from severe dysmenorrlioea, the dysmenorrhoea occurring for the first three days of tlie menstrual period. Various remedies were prescribed, but slie returned to the Home some months afterwards, beinq no better. A local examination was then made, wlien it was found that the uterus was somewhat enlai’Q-ed and acutelv O t. retroflexed. The condition of tlie appendages was apparently normal. During her stay in the Home, which was rather }>rotracted, and before any operative interference had lieen undertaken, my attention was drawn to her having acute suffering in the left side, about fifteen days after menstruation, very similar to the pain she suflered at her menstrual period, but not so severe. I examined her tlien, and found the condition in theCLINICAL PAPERS. 86 pelvis cis I luive (Icscrilted, with the ndditiuii thfit there Vcis <i distinct fulness <it the left side, the nature of vhich, at the time, I did not recognise. On further inquiry, I found that she had had this inid- teriii i)ain, lasting for a few hours, regularly for four of ^i^'e years. A\dth a view to curing her dysinenorrhoea, the cervix uteri was dilated, and she was sent olf, in the hope that her dvs- nienorrhoea would 1)6 relieved. Mouths later she was Ijrought hack again by her mistress, who said she was ([uite unfit for her duties as a servant, and must therefore, unless cured, leave her situation, all the more so as twice in the month she was temporarily hors de conibat. 1 am not perfectly sure what the further treatment was whicli she underwent for her dysmeuorrheea, l)ut, whatever it was, it was unavailing. The case was brought to me after I came to Ije in charge of beds in the Infirmary, and, after carefully considering the matter with the doctor in whose cliarge tlie patient had been, I somewhat unwillingly removed the ovaries. 1 found tliat there was well-marked liydrosalpinx of the left tube. The fact that this condition of the hydrosalpinx, of the size of a small hen’s egg, was not found except on tlie one occasion, referred to above, led me t<j tlie conclusion that it was one of those cases of hydrops tub;e profluens, and this conclusion was entirely supported by the subsequent history of the case ; because, although the removal of her ovaries and tubes neither stopped her menstruation nor cured the dysinenorrhoea, the intermenstrual jiain did not recur for at least a year after- wards, since which time T have not heard of the case again. The four cases recorded liy I’riestley,^ which ajipear to he the earliest recorded cases ])resenting this condition, have the following as their jirominent features :—Pain, paroxysmal, in the region of the ovary, occurring during the intermenstrual ’ Brit. Med. Journ., Loiiclon, 1S72, vol. vii.87 MITTELSCHMERZ, period; iu some cases continuing up to the commencement of the how, in others stopping before then. The ordinary how is usually scanty, l)ut regular, and with no pain. On bimanual examination.—In two cases tumour felt in region of broad ligament, adherent to uterus, elastic to touch. In the other two eases only thickening in the region of the broad ligament. Sorel records a case, presenting symptoms similar to those mentioned above, in which the condition existed for a great number of years; indeed, observation had been made during a period in which 147 menstrual epochs had occurred. Idie chief conclusion arrived at by this author was, that the occurreuce of the intermenstrual pain bore a more dehnite relation to the commencement of the period wliicli followed it than to the period which went l)efore, as tliere alwa}"S elapsed fourteen days between tlie occurrence of the pain and the commencement of the menstrual period. One of the most important contributions to the very limited literature of tliis subject is an article by Heinrich Fasbender, published in 1876. The case which he quotes as having occurred in his own experience presents the following features:— An unmarried woman of 24, anoBmic, with an anxious cast of countenance, had menstruated regularly since her fourteenth year. The How was always sparing, and for a few days before its appearance there was a severe pain in the lower part of her abdomen, with gastric disorder, cachexia, and alternate sensations of heat and cold. For the past two years there had occurred, at the fourteenth to sixteenth day after menstruation, a disorder similar to that which accom- panied the ordinary menstrual period, accompanied by a how of mucus from the vagina, so conspicuous as to have caused lier to mention it witliout its being suggested to her. Her nervous system liad become much affected by the paiu and discomfort which she underwent, so much so as to have88 CLINICAL PAPERS. produced syniptoiiis of hysteria and a mental condition bordering on melancliolia. riiysical examination showed the presence of an acute antetlexion of the uterus, with chronic endometritis and col- pitis, with lesions of the os. Nothing abnormal was found in the uterine annexa. On seeing her again at the time of her internienstrual pain, he came to the conclusion that the mucous discharge was most copious when the feeling of heaviness in the pelvis was most marked, pointing to a congestion in the pelvic organs. Fasbender’s view of the etiology of mittel- schnierz is that, accepting Idliiger’s theory of menstruation, we have in some cases a ])remature summation of nervous stimuli in the ovary, with the occurrence of ovulation, caused either by a delicately organised and excitable state of the whole nervous system, or of the nerves of the ovary, the latter state produced by a pathological condition of the ovary. This abnormal irritability leading to dehiscence of a follicle, some fourteen days before the proper menstrual period, i)roduces the congestive condition of the pelvic organs found in cases examined at such a time. In the discussion which followed the reading of Fas- bender’s paper several additional cases were cited and opinions expressed. Two gentlemen cited cases where the internienstrual pain had occurred in women suffering from anteflexion of the uterus; and a third suggested the antetlexion as the cause of the mittelschmerz, the pain lieing due to contraction of the uterus, trying to expel retained blooil, etc. To this it was replied that, in the observed cases, no contractions of the uterus could be discovered ; and, further, antetlexion was not present in all cases of mittelschmerz ; while, if it were caused by antetlexion, mittelschmerz would be a much comnionei’ symptom than it is. ^Mittelschmerz with a slight How of blood is also described by Benicke as occurring in a case where there was a conicalMITTELSCHMERZ. 89 cervix with pinhole os, antehexion of the uterus, and retraction of the utero-sacral ligament. From the above notes, vliicli, so far as I can discover, include a mention of nearly every case of mittelschmerz which has been recorded, the condition, it seems to me, can be well considered as havino- tliree dilferent manifestations— O 1. A group of cases in which there is no external mani- festation at all. 2. Those cases where the pain is associated with an esca})e of blood. 3. Tliose in wliicli the intermenstrual pain is associated with a clear discharge. It would be absurd to dogmatise upon the causes which give rise to this condition, or to lay down any hard-and-fast rules as to the pathological conditions necessary to its pro- duction, hut it seems to me tliat the above classification gives a fair in.sight into the different states that may lead to the production of this somewhat nnnsnal symptom. 1. With resrard to those cases where no external iiiaui- O festation accompanies the occurrence of mittelscimierz, the explanation is probably to be found in the fact that ovulation and menstruation do not in tliese cases occur simultaneously ; that, in addition, owing to thickening of the capsule of the ovary, or some such cause, dehiscence of tlie follicle occurs with pain. 2. Those associated with escape of blood. In all of these it will be observed that tliere was present more or less endometritis, anteflexion, and enlargement of the uterus, and, so far as 1 am able to judge, tliese were simply cases in which a slight intermenstrual flow, due to endometritis, was accompanied by a well-marked pain during the passage of clots. Such a condition is well recognised and common, and scarcely, I think, should come under the category of niittel- schnierz at all. Still, it adequately enough describes a set of cases to which the (Germans especially have drawn attention.90 CLINICAL PAPERS. Lastly, with regard to tliose cases in which a leucorrhoeal discharge is described as occurring with the mittelschmerz, and where, just before the usual date of the occurrence of the pain, a swollen and liuctuating condition of the tubes was in some cases made out, I think there can he no (piestion tliat the cause of the intermenstrual pain was to he found in hydrops Fallopii, reaching its full development at mid-term. I am well aw'are that much douljt is now tlirown upon the possibility of the existence of what is called “ intermitting hydrosalpinx,” or “ hydrops tiibte proiluens,” the occasional sudden escai)c of Ihiid tlirough a temporarily patent uterine end, with disap])earance and diminution in size of the tubal dilatation. According to some, it is iniicli more likely that these discharges pass, not through the cervix, Init l)y a vaginal fistula communicating with the cyst. Either ex]»lanation is compatible with this view of mine. In my case, in wliicli a removal of the tul)es and ovaries In’ought about a cessation of tlie mittelsclnnerz, it may l>e urged that the pain had been ovarian, and that the removal of the liydrops did not lead to its cessation, Imt the removal of the ovary. Here 1 would remark that colicky ]»ain in the tubes in such a condition occurs, coiitractions of the sac forcing the fluid througli a uterine orifice only partially closed ; and also tliat pain may be due to discharge of uterine contents, the result of rellex contraction of a necessarilv coiiLrested t. O uterus. Thus it is more than likely tliat tlie pain was really till )al.Vaginal Hysterectomy. The therapeutics wliich thirty years ago held tlieir SNvay over this department no longer occupy the all-important place they once did ; and diseases of women have drifted away absolutely and entirely from the domain of the physician into that of the surgeon pure and simple. Xo doubt this is to some extent natural. The develop- ment of abdominal surgery wdthin the last thirty years has been so startling and phenomenal, that no wonder men have devoted their lives and their time to the perfection of this particular branch. The operation of ovariotomy is itself a striking example, and there can be no doubt whatever that, with the present generation, the role of the ovariotomist pure and simple exists no longer. Xow, that operation, which is as safe as any other major operation in surgery, has, thaidcs to the obstetrician first and to the gymecologist after him, become an operation as much in the province of an ordinary surgeon as a hernia or a gastrostomy. But it must be kept in mind that this advance is due entirely to our department. It must ever be, however, and will ever continue to be, a ditiicultv with the surgeon who is not accustomed to either obstetrical or gyniecological work, to make his diagnosis a certainty, and therein will always lie tlie crux with the surgeon when he takes pelvi-abdominal work in hand. This question of diagnosis brings ns at once back to the domain of the obstetrician, with whom the diagnosis of pregnancy, for example, is part of his daily work, whereas the general surgeon has not the opportunity of perfecting himself in the differentiation of such conditions.CLINICAL PAPERS. 92 Now, this divorceiuent of diseases of women from ob- stetrics is not altogether without its disadvantages. The pendulum has swung, and swung very markedly, to surgery. That to surgery gyuiecology has owed its greatest victories, there can be no f[uestion at all. One lias only to think of the improvements in abdominal hysterectomy, and its fullest develo})inent in pan-hysterectomy, with, on the other hand, tlie conservative operation of myomectomy. Tliese all are recent triumplis of the surgeon’s art. Furtlier, the last decade has witnessed remarkalile improvement in the treat- ment of diseases of the uterine appendages. For while, no doubt, the removal of ovaries and tubes for intlammatorv diseases has been enormously overdone, yet our experience has now crystallised our knowledge with regard to the patlio- logical conditions for which these structures can be con- scientiously removed. We cannot be too glad to recognise that the tendency now is lieconiing more and more conser- vative, and that the perfected methods of antiseptic surgery enable us to deal with even limited areas wliich are affected, in ovaries and tidies which are not entirely diseased. The ease and safety with wliich complete salpiugo-obphorectomy can be performed must ever be a reason why we should safe- guard this operation as much as possible ; and fortunately we are now in a position to realise that only in grave pathological lesions should these organs lie entirely removed. Those of us who have been in the habit of dealing with morbid pelvic conditions must have become impressed with the fact that removal of the ovaries for merely intiammatory conditions is by no means a uniform relief to the symptoms, and often has grave and serious effects upon the patient otlierwise. Of tulial affections none can be more important than tubal pregnancy: and the treatment of extra-uterine gestation has become, within the last fifteen years, one of the recognised triumphs of gymecological surgery. The means of dealing with a tubal pregnancy before rupture are quite well deter-93 VA GIiVAL H YSTE RE CTOM K mined, and its removal is a matter of comparative safety compared with the risks of rupture. But even after ru})ture lias taken place, it can be, and often is, dealt with (piite successfully. The difficulty in dealing with extra-uterine pregnancy will always be one of diagnosis. But even here, great and pronounced as the surgical advance has been, it is just possible that, in dealing with extra-uterine pregnancies, especially early ones, the resort to the knife has been overdone, and many early ectopic gesta- tions, even after rupture, have been absorbed and have disappeared without the arbitrameut of tlie knife. Ill pelvi-alidoniinal surgery, by the vaginal route, the advances have been no less remarkable. Tlie dealing witli uterine cancer by the entire removal of the uterus jier vaginam has develo])ed enormously within recent years. The operation can now be done in a few minutes, and that tliis indicates an enormous advance in technique it is impossible to deny. But the question comes to be: Does the operation, so shortened and so simplified, tend much to the prolongation of life of the patient ? It certainly has made the removing of a cancerous uterus a simple and easy procedure, even in moderately advanced cases. But I doubt if it has done much, if anything, to prolong the life of the patient, or to ameliorate her sufferings; and for this reason, that the disease, after hysterectomy, proceeds rapidly to the peritoneum, where it produces for the patient sufferings and a death worse than if no operation had been done at all. That a vaginal hysterectomy stops hceniorrhage and foetid discharge, and relieves pain, there can be no question at all. But this is only a temporary improvement. And for this dire disease even a temporary alleviation of these symptoms would be an advantage, were it not that, with the recurrence of the disease, the ultimate pain and suffering are greater than if it had never been touched at all. Here and now it is not my business to discuss whether94 CLINICAL PAPERS. cancer begins generally or locally, llie great pathological warfare of twenty years ago, between l^aget and Iliitcliinson, remains still unsettled, but I believe the consensus of opinion is in favour of the view that it is primarily a local disease which, later, attacks surrounding and distant parts, and infects the system generally. If this be so, of course the argument for removing the uterus, when it is the centre of the infection, remains as strong as possible. And naturally, if the gymn- cological surgeons were able to see the cancerous uterus at its initial stage, and remove it, no douljt good results ought to be anticipated. But such is, unfortunately, not the case. After an experience now of twenty years, including twelve years as physician in the lloyal Infirmary, I have tabulated every case that has come under my special supervision. It is twelve years ago since I did my first vaginal hysterectomy for cancer. That operation lasted two hours and a half, and, as a proof of the advance in technique, and of the ease with which the operation can now I)e performed, the last 1 did was performed in eighteen minutes. I have diligently observed every case of malignant disease of the uterus that has come under my observation, with a view to the performance of that operation, and only fourteen have fulfilled all the conditions requisite to justify hysterectomy with expectation of success. I have carefully operated upon all of these cases. All the operations have been undertaken with the assistance and approval of my colleagues, and here and now 1 wish to say, speaking the absolute truth, that these fourteen patients on whom hysterectomy was performed—although they all, save one, to use the ordinary hackneyed phrase, made absolutely uneventful recoveries—died, every one of them, within the year, and, in my opinion, with greater suffering than if they had been left alone. Now this applies, unfortunately, to several cases in which the disease was absolutely confined to the fundus, and where, so far as 1 could find, there was no involvement of the broad95 VAGINAL HYSTERECTOiMY. ligament whatever, these cases being typical examples of the desirable cases on which to operate. And yet, in all, the dis- ease recurred in the peritoneum, and the patient died in great distress within the year. Now, given that the diagnosis of cancer is made at its most initial stage, with due care and attention, a woman’s expectation of life may be from two to two and a half years,— I ask, with the best statistics available, whether she has a better prospect if the cancer be left alone, or if it be inter- fered with by hysterectomy ? Many forms of cancer are pain- less. Most of them destroy life through h[emorrhage, exhaustion, and urtemic poisoning, etc. The (piestion is. Do women live longer lives and die less painful deaths if the uterus be removed, or if the disease he allowed to run its ordinary course ? For my own part, I do not think that surgical interference is the better. I know well that I shall he confronted with the German statistics. It is not becoming in me to question these statistics; hut I do not think that either this country or America, whatever the explanation may be, has given us results at all in comparison with what the Germans claim. For example:—At the end of five years Fritsch had 36 per cent, of cures; Hofmeier, 3 3 per cent, after four years ; Schauta, 47 per cent, after two years. At the Dresden clin- ique, of eighty patients examined two years after operation, forty-five had no recurrence. Of fifty-eight examined after three years, 58'6 percent, were well. Of forty-two patients, after four years, in 5 9 per cent, there was no recurrence. Of thirty after five years, 6 0 per cent, were well, whilst two sur- vived seven years. Leopold states what seems to me the most startling statement in surgery, that out of seventy-six cases seventy-two were well and without recurrence after one to five and a half vears. If tliese figures are true—and I have no desire to traverse them—I can only say that cancer in Germany must be one96 CLINICAL PAPERS. thing and cancer in Great Britain another, that tlie respective diagnostic skill of tlie two countries must vary considerahly, or that women must present themselves to the German surgeons at a period when the disease is in its most initial stane, when it is still confined to a small nodule in the cervix, or limited to the niucons membrane of tlie fundus; for I cannot conceive that results such as I have referred to are obtainable after tlie disease has advanced, where the lymph- atics and glands are involved, or still less when the uterus has become fixed. The opportunities of the Edinburgh Infirmary and of private practice give ns, alas, only too ani])le scope for seeing and diagnosing cancer, and my own sphere of experience has been a reasonably large one; and I rej)eat, that in all these years fourteen only have been seen early enougli to render a success- ful issue lu’^diable, and these have died within a year of operation. As a further explanation of the discrepancy, may I venture to suggest, without multiplying exaiii])les, that within my own personal knowledge cases of marked cervical catarrh with gross erosions have been regarded as cervical cancer, and removed as such, and it is very easy to mistake an advanced senile uterine catarrh of a pronounced type for a fundal cancer. In my own cases I need hardly sav that, before operation was undertaken, in each of them the sus- pected tissue was examined microscopically, and the diagnosis thus absolutely established. It is true some gymecological surgeons tell us that, as the senile uterus is of no further use, when there is any doubt it is better removed : and, for example, they will tell us further that, after removing the ovaries by the vaginal route, the uterus may as well also be removed for the same reason ; 1)ut, I ask you, is this surgery ? The ablation of an organ because it is of no further use, is no argument; the point in surgery, so far as I see, is oidy to remove those (Ugans, or those portions of organs, which are absolutely diseased, and which shorten life, or are seriouslv97 VA GINAL H ] 'STERE CTOiM ] interfering with health. The conditions to wliich 1 Jiave just referred do neither. Further, if we take and carefully look over these statistics, « we shall hud that they are, to say the least of them, some- what ambiguous. And we shall further hud that, even though a woman lives two years after the operation, and has no return, it is doubtful whether she lives longer and dies happier than if the uterus were left in situ. The whole point of the matter is this, that it is quite conceivable that, with a cancer very early diagnosed and operated upon, the prolongation of life is possible, although, unfortunately, such has not been my experience; but, after a cancer has developed beyond its most initial stage, I hold and believe that the removal of the organ does not prolong life, and that the subsequent death is infinitely more terri1)le. Now, if the disease be local in its origin and only affects the system secondarily, one naturally asks why the alleged results are so satisfactory in the mamma, and apparently so unsatisfactory in the uterus. The answer seems plain. It is the old question of early recognition. And the possibilities of early recognition in the mamma and in the uterus are totally different. Every woman recognises a small swelling in her breast at once, and seeks for immediate advice; whereas a woman may have uterine discharges, leucorrhoeal and luemorrhagic, and pain and discomfort for months, without taking any notice of it whatever. If it were possible to recognise early cancer in the uterus as well as in the mamma, of course it is possible, as I have just said, tliat the results would be somewhat better. Furthermore, we must remember that whereas in the breast the lympliatic connections and glands can be dealt with, and are regularly dealt with, whether they appear to be affected or not, it is otherwise in the pelvis. And perhaps Howard Kelly, acting on Freund’s suggestion, may be in the right lines in giving up vaginal hysterectomy for cancer, and deahug with the whole uterus and broad liga- 7CLINICAL PAPERS. a thousand times, therefore I cannot be classed among the y8 incut from ab(-)ve. Jiut this procedure is, to say the least of it, still suh judicc. Since Freund, in the late seventies, first of all introduced aljdoiniiial hysterectomy for cancer, and afterwards abandoned it, because of its high mortality—somewhere aliout 70 per eent.—vaginal hysterectomy, in the hands of Fritsch, Leopold, Segond, Martin, Olshausen, Doyen, etc., has undergone a vary- ing course of evolution, until now the operation is as perfect as it can he, aiul the immediate mortality, which at first was 15 to 25 per cent., has fallen to practically 'nil, even in my pjwn hands. Lut I wish to })oint out that records such as appear from time to time in our journals, of successful cases of vaginal hysterectomy for cancer, mean absolutely nothing at all, because, to give a series of tables of successful hysterectomies, winding up with the stereotyped phrase, “ the patient left the hospital well,” is no addition to our knowledge of I'esults. The operation has been so imi:)roved, that anything less than a successful immediate issue would be scarcely warranted. No one for one moment would dream of detract- ing from the merit attaching to those eminent surgeons who have so imja-oved and evolved the technique of the oi)eration, and rendered it, so far as its immediate results are concerned, an absolutely safe oue; l)ut much though we may admire that, <and heartily give them every meed of praise, yet we must look ])eyond the immediate present to the no distant future of the operation, and from dealing with the names of the eminent, to whom I have just referred, I am l)ound, as a hunilile worker in the department, so far as it is of any interest to any one, to descend to myself, and state my own exj>erience. Some of us have lived long enough to observe and note how various o])erative interferences have come into vogue, tlourished and died. Far be it from me to decry operation. 1 have myself opened the abdomen for one reason or another upwards of99 VA GINA L II VS TERE CTOM V. non-operating gynaecologists; but, on looking back over a considerable experience, 1 am unable to recall much benetit that has accrued from surgical interference, as far as the cancerous uterus is concerned. That the subject of cancer should have occupied the l»est minds of the greatest men, is not a matter of surprise. "Wdien \ve consider the hopelessness of the disease, and the pain and suffering which are its invariable accompaniments,—this, I say, is not a matter for surprise. Still less do we wonder when we think of its extraordinary prevalence. After mammary cancer, the uterus is l)y far tlie most frequent seat of the disease in women. I ])elieve I do not overstate tlie case when 1 say that at the present moment there are at least 8000 women—probably a great many more—suffering from uterine cancer in the United Kingdom. For, rely upon it, there is no more pressing subject; for it seems to me that, in our efforts to cure or ameliorate cancer, we have come against a dead wall. AVhether it is possible that we may have got a suggestion in removal of the ovaries for the cure of inoperable mammary cancer, and whether tlie same operation may offer a possibility for uterine cancer, remains a moot question. It is also possible that the solution may still be found in treatment by some animal extract, or on the antitoxiue principle, which has been found so valuable in dij^htheria and tetanus. Nothing, certainly, can be more remarkable than the accidental discovery of what has proved a most nlar^■ellous remedy for myxoedenia, in the treatment by thyroid extract. And, in our own department, we have a similarly striking example in the accidental discovery and development of the results which follow upon removal of the ovaries in cases of osteomalacia. For our knowledge of this question we are much indebted to Dr. James Pdtchie. Whether this condition be due to zymotic influences, to reflex nervous phenomena, to dietetic causes, or to altered chemical changes, the factCLIXICAL PAPERS. lOO reiiuiius, that many cases have been recorded in vhich a cure has been obtained by oophorectomy. In our groping for light as to a malady which is in itself absolutely fatal, and which, I fear, according to recent statistics, is increasing, it is our duty to keep an open ndud for any theory, and to welcome any suo-crestiou, however extreme, in dealing with this awful disease. While at the present day every surgical i)roceeding is accepted and adopted, it is striking to think how medical innovations are received with distrust. Even aucTsthesia, that has revolutionised the whole of medicine and surgery, was on its first introduction scorned, and regarded in the light of charlatanism. It is interesting now to look l)ack after this interval of time, and to reflect how tliis wonderful disc(jvery was received in England. It is l)est told in tlie late Sir Eussell llevnolds’ own words:— “ The first operation in England })erfornied under an auicsthetic was witnessed in University College Hospital. Liston had coiiseuted to try the amesthetic. 1 can see him,” says Sir liussell lleynolds, “as he said to the students, ‘ Gentlemen, we are going to trv a Yankee dodge for making men insensible.’ At length Peter Squire said, ‘ He is quite ready now, sir.’ Liston’s knife Hashed in the air. 1 took out my watch to count the time, and the leg was on the floor in twenty-six seconds. Liston turned to the students and saitl, ‘This Yankee dodge, gentlemen, beats mesmerism hollow.’” Such is Sir Russell Reynolds’ report. The great discovery had to make its way against obstinate j)rejudice and folly, and Liston’s grudging utterance should serve as a. warning to those of us wlio make light of new methods, only because they are new. Looking back over tliirty years’ experience,—from the escharotic treatment, the Chian turpentine e])och, the various amputations, curettings, and hysterectomies,—1 am ratherK4GINAL HYSTERECTOMV. lOI disposed to think that the surgical method of dealing witli uterine cancer has done little either to ameliorate suffering or to prolong life, and that once a uterine cancer is recognised, palliative local measures and a hapj)}’ euthanasia througli morphia are the best solutions of the difficulty. Snell a statement may liave tlie versimilitnde of despair, and, so far as I personally am concerned, tliat is my position. I liope and trust tliat the day may yet dawn wlien we shall have measures, whether therapeutic or surgical, of dealing with uterine cancer effectivelv, hut I confess that 1 do not believe it has dawned yet. i’erhaps these statements are somewhat at variance with the oist of the address I had the honour of makino- as President 0 O of the Section of Obstetrics, to the British IMedical Association some years ago. Then I was captivated with the wonderful iinjirovements made in the technique in the operation of vao;inal hvsterectomv hv I’aris suro-eons, and introduced to us here, especially by Professor Simpson. Unfortunately, so far as my own personal experience has been concerned, improved technique has not bettered my results. For the last series of cases have all been done with this enormous advantage, Imt without any improvement in the ultimate result. 1 have honestly stated my own experience, and 1 shall he only too pleased if, whereas my work reads failure, the results of others give a more optimistic view of the case. The following are mv cases in detail :— O t/ In any account of vaginal hysterectomy, with our improved methods of operation, recovery is, as a rule, to be expected. The immediate risks of the operation, when undertaken in circumstances at all favourable, are small. Tliose cases which succimih shortly after the operation must and can only be badly selected ones, where the fornices are small, where the disease has involved tlie posterior wall of the bladder (a con- dition always difficult of diamiosis lieforeliand), or where hoemor-102 CLINICAL PAPERS. ihage or sepsis has resulted. But in any well-selected group of cases such an untoward event is never to be loolced for. In the list of cases which is appended, all the patients iininediately recovered except one, who died from sepsis some days after the operation, due to my having failed to realise that the uterus was closely attached to the bladder, the whole tissue being soft and friable. The operation was thus, to a certain extent, incomplete. So, therefore, I may dismiss now any (piestion aliout vaginal hysterectomy, so far as my jiresent pa})er is concerned, except the (piestion of the remote results. I am at ](resent concerned with the (piestion, as to how far this operation prolongs the life of the patient; and, liefore touching upon the matter, another question readily suggests itself. I su})})ose no one will deny that a case, to be not only immediately but also to be remotely successful, must necessarilv lie attacked in its most early sta^e. Xow, a very early carcinoma of the cervix, still more an early tubular carcinoma of tlie body of the uterus, will, under ordinary circumstances, give an expectation of life for the patient, of eighteen mouths to three years. With sarcoma the expectation is distincth' longer. Therefore, in ascertaining tlie value of any operation whatever, tlie first (piestion to decide is. Whether or not that ojieration can prolong the patient’s expectation of life ? and, obviously, the second question is, AVliether it prolongs her expectation of life or not, does it relieve her symptoms, and give her an easier death than she would liave had if no operation had been undertaken ? These are the two questions which, in this pa]>er, I propose to discuss. During tlie jiast ten years, two hundred cases of cancer have presented themselves to me, either in the wards of the hospital or in my consulting-room, and with regard to these I have the following remarks to make:— 1. Tliey include not all the cases of cancer which 1 have seen, but only those wliicli have been admitted to my ward, {Conihuu'd onpayc 104.VAGINAL HYSTEKECTOAn 103 ' -Ji ^ a3 * 2 o C*3 ^ |og^|g i«s8Hs t* O p c o C> ^ OJ o o *E 5 ^ ® -taJ O -—) i/3 O .S i.S'si: V_I ^ * O O y m c ci s cj cs c3 r^ <w c o p O '-- X p ■ . o o*p O —* P I 111 » o ^ o . I o ^ ^ S ■' -4-) O ^ O ^ ) 3 O « P ?; c5 ) ~ ; cc •5'^ . o . :s s -2 u -4^ &> Ps bfiO ■ •S8 . X O i) 'P ' *■ cj C' ^ o •**■* 5 2 g 0 > fcj ' P s:-” (i, ^ 8 5 O P *S c* .Si'S o ^ Z rt - § ii c "Zc S's: o *•2 a CO P -C' P P4 03 a •r P X. y c5 O o bD c3 c3 V a bfl; W o rt O cj 0 1 ay. o ^ X y •- >..P •« o C >. Xh >» 'ra4*-a)'r-4JT- S ^ c3 o 3 o J2 W M o io c3 p y p > o p.S^' rt O p O, o c ji = £: S 9 •: ='=.9.2 ' v5. ■ y ' ^ 5 ; O ” o c3 ‘P 0 <1^ P ^ 1 5 S I g* -4-3 p ; ^X P .2 5~ S 2 ~ 5 ^- '~ y. ^ O Q j; K 5 - a o> 2 3.2 rt X *0 o y *y a o ^ . > **-> O ■*“* - iX+J 2 p -5 • 45 g X. O . O .S 3 Cl ic t- o „* c3 _> 3 •_S w j; fa H H o bo be W O X ?C rt rt X ^ rf y o p X ^ 5 o y .P ^Xl X ® ‘x "5 ^ Si X « cS O ^ o y bo y ci ^ u 9jz ’Z ^ c3 O O ^ bo-5 a h O ,.2 £Tc 21 c o O o y t QO •4^ Z y I I y bo t- O CO o -J4 CO n rH 01 O CO CO CO CO -t* a o a 1 d 5^. o -p i-104 CLINICAL PAPERS. or wliicli I luive seeu iu iiiy own cousulting-rooiii. 1 liave not included tliose cases seen in the out-patient department, and of tliose whicli 1 luive seen in consultation in jirivate 1 have kept no record. Hence, therefore, the experience which I am putting liefore you may seem rather less than might have been expected. 2. The talile im p. 10.‘I includes all the cases of cancer of the uterus for which I have performed vaginal hysterectomy, except two, and those two were done in my earlier years, and were, in some respects, incomplete. On that account thev must be omitted in estimatim>: the value of the operation. The fourteen now recorded were performed with all the most recent inijirovements in the operation ; and, save one, they were comiilete in every detail. Of the fourteen, only three were done in the hospital, the others in ])i-ivate, which is itself a suggestive fact, because those seen in jirivate jiractice are always seen at an earlier stage than those which apply for advice to a hospital. Each one of those fourteen cases was most carefully selected; all the others, if interfered with at all, were only dealt with l)y tlie ordinary palliative measures. 3. These cases include all the recognised forms of cancer affecting the cervix and the body of the uterus. It would l)e a work of supererogation to describe each case of those o})erated upon in detail; nor have T any intention of referring to those cases in wliicli merely palliative operative interferences were employed, such as amputation of the cervix, and the employment of tlie cautery, etc. ; l)ut 1 refer only to those iu wliich 1 performed vaginal hysterectomy. First let me take a hospital case. Case 1.—A widow, mother of four children, a worker in a Dundee mill, presented herself at the hos})ital, com])laining of slight pain in the back, and menorrhagia. Now there was no leucorrhoca, no foetid discharge, no bleeding, and no105 VA GINAL H YSTERE CTO MY. einaciatiou, and a certain slight degree of erosion and eversion of the cervix was all the siun of disease that could he found. At first it was snpjiosed to l)e a case of cervical catarrh, and was ])ut under treatment appropriate to sucli a condition. As there was no improvement after a fortnight, and as the cervix seemed to hecoine sus})icionsly hard, a piece of tissue was examined by competent authorities at tlie laboratory of the Eoyal College of Thysicians, and the contlition pronounced to he malignant. As the case fulfilled every one of the conditions for hysterectomy—mobility, non-involvement of glands, and freedom of tlie ligaments, with ap])areutly no infection of the Ixnly of the uterus or the l)ladder — the operation was performed, lasting eigliteen minutes, and the patient made a perfect recovery. The fiirtlier history of that case is as follows;—■ The operation was done on July 16. The following (Jhristmas tlie patient was seen by Dr. Lackie, who said that there were several bleeding nodules at the site of the cicatrix, and that the patient was suffering pain. During my absence in April, he again saw her, and pronounced the whole pelvis to be occupied by a cancerous mass, with liaBinorrhage, emaciation, and great pain. She died during that summer. Xow, my comment upon this case is—(1) that 1 could not wish for a more suitable case, both as to the general and local conditions, to operate upon, and that the operation could not be easier or shorter; (2) that for a short period of a month or two the patient was comparatively well ; and (3) that in six months the disease had recurred with intense l)ain, in nine mouths there was a fungating cancerous mass in the pelvis, in a year the patient was dead. Xow 1 am bound to say that, so far as my experience of such a case of cancer is concerned, had the patient l.ieen left alone, her expectancy of life would have been from eighteen months to two years, and her sufferings, which were very great, would have been less.CLINICAL PAPERS. I o6 With regard to Case 2, it is tliat of a lady from the west country, ict. 47, and in evidently robust health. Her symp- toms were chielly severe pain in the Ijack and loins, with some luenKjrrhagic discharge. Her doctor. Hr. Muir, wlio sent lier to see ]iie, believed she was suffering from an early cancer of tiie uterus. When I saw her the uterus was perfectly mobile, not enlarged, the fornices were fi‘ee, and no glands were in- volved, and, save a distinct liard nodular cervix, there was nothing abnormal to l)e found. I was disposed to agree witli Dr. iMnir as to the malignancy of the case, hut liad a speci- men examineil, and the report conlirmed this opinion. The operation was performed ([uickly and easily, after Doyen’s metliod, and the patient made an aljsolutely uninterrupted recovery, leaving tlie Nursing ll(nne a month from the day of operation. Tiiree montlis afterwards the pain recurred, and soft granular bleeding masses appeared at tlie site of tlie wound. From that time onwards the pain was S(j sevein, that the i)atient practically lived on o])ium, and died seven months after operation. comment on this case is, that this woman liad only a very short immunity from pain. In three months it recurred, and except for morphia her life would have been intolerable. The disease liad markedly affected the peritoneum, althougli the mass in the pelvis never became very large. I'liis woman’s expectation of life wlien I first saw lier was unquestionably from a year to eigliteen months, and as a, matter of fact, witli all the so-called advantages of the operation, she only lived seven months. ’Die third tyjie of cases is illustrated by the following:— C.\SE 3.—AVhen 1 first saw her she was supposed to he suffering from an incomplete abortion. She was a lady in the enjoyment of excellent health, exceiit for persistent luemorrhage, which had lasted for two months before I saw her. I was ([uite contented to believe that the diagnosis107 VAGINAL HYSTERECTOMY. given me l»y her medical attendant was correct, and I pro- ceeded to curette the nterns, which was enlarged, witli tlie cervix somewhat gaping, and well-marked ectropion. I sub- mitted tlie debris, removed by curettage, t(j IMr. Stiles for microscopic examination, and to my surprise lie told me the case was one of tubular carcinoma. Even from such an authority as Mr. Stiles I was unwilling to accept this, and it was only after an interval of a fortnight that I removed another scraping for examination by ]\[r. Stiles, but his report was just the same as before. I tlierefore, without further delay, performed vaginal hysterectomy. If ever there was a case in which the operation was easy, this was the one; and where hopes of remote recovery were warranted, there never was a l^etter, because the liroad ligaments were absolutely free, and the disease was entirely localised to the fundus and body. Now, within six weeks, she had slight recurrence of the Inemorrhage from the cicatrix, and an enlarged gland in the left groin. She went to her home in the north, and although I never personally saw her again, she died of malig- nant peritonitis within the year. i\Iy comment on this ease is obvious. A woman’s ex- pectation of life with intra-uteriue cancer is from tw'o to five years. Howard Kelly, himself a keen operator, admits five years as a possilde duration for an intra-uterine ca.ncer, when not interfered with. This patient was in excellent health, she sufibred absolutely no pain, and had no sympt(un except the hicmorrhage; and had it not been for the practice that I invariably make of having the scrapings after a curettage examined by the microscope, this patient would have gone home without any reason to suppose she was sufiering from cancer of any sort or kind. It will be further observed that she had no pain before the operation, and it was only after- wards that, when tlie disease spread to the peritoneum, her pain was intense, and she died in terrible sufiering from malignant peritonitis.CLINICAL PAPERS. io8 I need not multiply examples, because in all the other cases the history l.»efore and after tlie operation is somewhat similar. Ihit perha])S I may l»e alhnved to show tlie converse. A lady came under my observation witli what I supposeil to he senile uterine catarrh. 1 d<j not usually dilate and scrape in this condition, Imt as the os uteri_ was somewhat gaping, and the lucmorrliage rather i»rofuse, I further dilated tlie cervix, and curetted and packed the cavity. The rej)ort on the scra])ing was “well-marked carcinoma.” I announced this to the i)atient’s friends; and for various reasons, personal, domestic, and otlierwise, any furtlier operative interference was declined, i’ersonally 1 was not soiTy for this, Itecause the uterus was somewhat fixed and the fornices small, and the o])eration would not have been a very easy one. That was in 1894; to-day, Xovemlier 1808, tliough seriously ill, she is still alive, and only recently has she sullered much at all. During these years she has at intervals enjoyed many consecutive weeks of excellent health. Her position in life allowed her to have every luxury, which may possibly have had something to do with the jn'olongation of her life; Imt nevertheless the fact remains, that four years ago she had fundal cancer, verified by the microscope, and she is alive still. IMy further comment on this case is, that that dumtion of four and a half years is probaldy an under-estimate of the time, because it was a certaintv that the cancer had originated a considerable time before 1 first saw her. I must admit that this is a longer duration tha.n is commonlv met with, but a three years’ duration is by no means uncommon in my experience. In the present paper I am not dealing with anylxxly’s results but my own, nor am T venturing to criticise any other o])erator’s work. 1 am only stating my own experience of vaginal hysterectomy for cancer. This has been an un- fortunate one; but it seems to me the duty of every operator, whatever his ability or experience may be, to record his109 VAGINAL HYSTERECTOMY. ultimate results, eveu though the truth so told may tell against himself. Let me add, that all these cases operated on were exceptionally favouraljle ones, and selected with special care. Bad though my results have heen, I. tremble to think of what they might have heen had 1 o])erated on cases indiscriminately. [ am hopeful, however, that hy some improvement in the management of the wound at the time of operation, so that the diseased surface may not come in con- tact with the peritoneum, infection may become less likely, and better remote results he secured. I shall continue to operate upon early selected cases until t succeed, or until some method of dealing with cancer, such as Ijy the serums or the antitoxiiies, will render operative treatment unnecessary.Opemtive Interference witli Fibroid Tumours during Ib'egnancy, Parturition, ami the Puerperium. It is l)ut seldom—notwithstanding their great frequency among child-beai'ing women—that tibi’oid tumours give rise to any inconvenience during ]>regnancy, and still less frequently do they require any surgical interference. The ordinary history of such tumours in the nonqu'egnant ■condition is well known, and, even in exceptional circumstances, when they am a source of dangei- to the patient, the method of dealing with them by removal of the ovaries, and in some cases by the continuous current, has rendered their entii-e removal a comparatively infretpient operation. The behaviour of fibroid and similar tumours during pregnancy is interesting. In over 400 cases of abdominal section I have only bad to interfere with ovarian tumours four times during ])regnancy, and with fibroids the cases which I now record are all that have come under my notice. The growth of these tumours is often rapid during pregnancy, resulting in interference with the circulation and oedema of the lower extremities. They are a frequent cause of abortion and profuse uterine hicnior- rhage, and often Ijy their bulk cause interference with the functions of bladder and rectum. They often alter the posi- tion of the uterus, and, as a result, abnormal ])resentations of the fmtus and ]n-olapse of the cord are by no means infre- quent. f'urthermore, and specially, abnormality in the uterine contractions is a frequent com])lication of labour, and the expulsion of the fcntus is often unduly prolonged. As in the case about to be recorded, the presence of a m}'oma which obstructs labour is similar to a contracted ])elvis. Pviqiture111 FIBROID TUMOURS DURING PREGNANCY. of the uterus in cases of large inyomata lias been oI)served, and one case of the kind I have myself recorded. I hemor- rhage during the placental period is often so })rofuse as to endanger the patient’s life, and til)roid tumours of the uterus form one of the most common causes of secondary post-]iai-tum luemorrhage. With regard to the })uer])eral period, septic- infection and abnormal imadution are tbe characteristic features. Case. Name. Medical Attendant. Nature of Case. Period of Pregnancy. Result of Operation. i 1 1 1. DURING PREGNANCY—MYOMECTOMY. 1 11. D. Dr. Crooin. Subperitoneal peili- culated fibroid. 4 niontlrs. Recovery. Delivered at term. 2 L. C. ,, Hunter. Suliperitoneal fib- roid. 3 „ Death. 3 M. F. Waiting-room. Subperitoneal pedi- culated fibroid with ovarian cystoma. ^ 5J Recovery. Delivery at term. TI. AFTER ABORTION—HYSTERECTOMY. 1 S. H. Dr. Trotter. Large fibro-eystic tumour of uteru.s. Recovery. 2 B. H. ,, Cameron. > • J III. DURING LABOUR—REMOVAL PER VAGINAM. 1 C. F. Dr. Sinelair. Pediculated fibroid obstructing de- livery. Recovery. IV . DURING PUERPERIUM. 1 I E. R. Dr. Kirk. Sulimucou.s fibroid. Removal. Death. ... ' 2 H. C. ,, Playfair. > J Recovery. 3 L. M. ,, Sicley. 5 •) ? ) >>CLINICAL PAPERS. I 1 2 Siisserott collected from all sources a series of 147 cases of labour complicated with fibroid tumour ; GO per cent, of these labours were termiuated instrumeiitally. Cask 1.—A woman, let. 05, was adiintted to mv ward. She liad been married five years, and was sterile. She specially sought advice l)ecause of much pain in her left side, associated with irregular haanorrhages. She had not missed a ]>eriod. For a year past her menstruation had been in- creasing in quantity and frequency. Her lucmorrhages were less a source of distress to her than the pain in the left side, associated with a hardness and swelling in that region. The swelling and pain had been the subject of observation for over three months. On examination }>er ^■aginam, a large seniisolid swelling was felt on the left side, filling u]> the fornix, and bimanually it was found projecting over the l)rim of the ]ielvis. It was tense, about the size of a cocoanut, and its superior surface was irregular. A tumour of smaller size, ol)viously the uterus, was felt to the right side and behind. It was considerably enlarged. The cervix was thick, soft, and slightly patulous. There was a well-marked souille all over the ])elvic brim. Though the continued luemorrhage was rather against it, the softness of the uterus pointed to pregnancy, and the right side tumour seemed a dermoid ovarian which had taken on ra|)id growth. A more careful examination per rectum, under chloroform, ])ermittcd the detection of a firm jiedicle, about as thick as two fingers, passing from the left cornu of the uterus. The conclusion arrived at was, that the tumour was a rapidly growing myoma, associated with an early pregnancy. It was clear that the pregnancy—if it were one—could not continue with a tumour of such dimensions and in that situation, and in any case the rapid growth of the tumour and the pain demanded interference. Even if it had been justifiable to8 FIBR 01 D TUMO URS D URING PRE GNANC\113 interfere with the ovaries, which in the case of a i>regnant uterus was inadmissible, any attempt at their removal would have been more hazardous than the removal of the fibroid itself, owing to their inaccessible position. The abdomen was accordingly opened and the tumour exposed. It proved a soft nterine myoma. There was no difficulty in dealing with it by double knot, and at the same time sewing u]) very carefully the rest of the pedicle and dropping it back. There was enlargement of the uterus, corresponding to a two-and-a-half months’ pregnancy. The case gave no further trouble. The haemorrhages— which were no doubt due to the rapid growth of the myoma, causing congestion of the decidua and hiemorrhage from tlie lower pole of the uterus, as well as attempts at abortion— ceased, and the patient was delivered at seven months. Case 2.—The patient, tet. 35, had been married for years, and was sterile. Slie was sent to me because of great pain in the left side. Her menstruation, which had been previously irregular and profuse, had been suppressed for two mouths. There was a distinct tumour to be felt over the brim of the pelvis in the left side. It was tender on pressure per vaginam; the tumour could be felt, tender and soft, occupying the entire left fornix. The uterus was enlarged, and thrown to the right side. There were no auscultatory sounds. There seemed to be no communication between the uterus and the tumour. The case was diagnosed as a small ovarian tumour, with some ])eritonitis over it, and pregnancy. On opening the abdomen, tlie tumour was found to be a large rapidly growing soft fibroid, attached to the left side of the uterus by a thin pedicle. TJiis was dealt with in the usual way. The operation offered no difficulty. Immediately after- wards, however, the patient succumbed to old-standing aortic disease. No autopsy was permitted.114 CLINICAL PAPERS. Case .') was sent to my ward as a case of pregnancy complicated with an ovarian tumour. There was no difficulty in diaii’nosiiifi the ovarian tumour on the right side and the uterus oil the left. The only point was that the fundus uteri was more than usually prominent. Tlie pregnancy had advanced live months. The ovarian tumour was removed without difficulty. The cause, however, of the prominence of the uterus became evident, because there was found behind the uterus a fibroid myoma, with a pedicle about the thickness of two fingers, the myoma itself being about the size of a cocoanut, very vascular and soft. After removing the ovarian tumour, 1 also removed the myoma in the usual way, by piercing the pedicle and putting a double knot over it, stitch- ing the end of the stump up, and dropping it back into the abdominal cavity. The patient made an excellent recovery, and was delivered at term. The following two cases were sent to me during the continuance of the pregnancy, and as lioth present features of interest, 1 now desire to record them :— Case 1.—Mrs. H. had been married for eighteen months, and was pregnant of her first child. The pregnancy was sufficiently obvious. It had advanced to about the seventh month, and occupied the left side of the abdomen. On the right side there was a large semisolid tumour reaching up to the liver, and displacing the uterus very much towards the left side. The tumour was painless, and liad grown coinci- dently almost with the pregnancy. The patient had observed a slight swelling over her pelvis before her marriage, but this was trilling, and it was only after she Itecame pregnant that lier al)d(unen increased witli enormous rapidity. The growth of the tumour and the uterus went on almost imri 'pasm. From the rapid growth of the tumour, its position, and phys- ical examination, I came to the conclusion it was a polycystic ovarian tumour. The obvious fpiestion then arose, whetherFIBROID TUMOURS DURING RR EG NANCY. 115 to induce premature laljour or remove the tumour. I decided upon the latter. Labour, however, set in, and she was de- livered of a seven-months child, which did not survive. The labour was normal, but immediately afterwards she had a very considerable peritonitis, and the tumour continued to grow with marked rapidity. Owing to the continuance of the peritonitis, and the rapid growth of the tumour, I determined to operate within six weeks after delivery. I opened the abdomen, and found extensive and recent peritonitis, and instead of having to deal with an ovarian tumour as I had expected, I found a large fibro-cystic tumour; the still en- larged and recently pregnant horn of a bicornuous uterus could now be easily made out. The sound showed a single cervix and a double uterine cavity. The left side cavity, which had contained the foetus, was still about in. long; and the right, from which the tumour projected by a pedicle, was a little larger. The two were distinctly separated by a sulcus, and were connected apparently through the cervix uteri only. The tumour was exposed, and first ligatured by the elastic ligature, and afterwards grasped by the Koeberle clamp and the delta wire. The peritoneum was adjusted round the stump, and the patient made a good recovery. Case 2 was sent to me by Dr. Cameron of Innerleithen, who, in his note with the case, said that the patient had a large tumour, and was pregnant. On examination I found her a young woman of 30, married for one year, with a large solid tumour reaching up to her ensiform cartilage. There was neither uterine souffle nor foetal heart to be heard anywliere. Ter vaginam, the cervix, though large, was firm and hard, and as her menstruation had been regular, I was disposed to think that my friend Dr. Cameron’s diagnosis was wrong. I passed the sound into the uterus, and found it of its normal size. T wrote to Dr. Cameron, and told him that I was obliged to disagree with him. I was disposed to think that the patientCLINICAL PAPERS. 116 snlfered from a large semisolid ovarian tumour. Xothiug ill the case led me to suppose that the tumour was anything else. ] had all the preparations made for the operation, and a week after my first examination, and the day before the operation, the patient aliorted of a four-months foetus. I need scarcely say that I was surprised, and at tlie same time rather crestfallen in my diagnosis. The tumour remained after the abortion jiretty much as it was before. Three weeks afterwards, 1 opened the patient’s abdomen, and found that the tumour was a large fibrocystic tumour of the uterus, almost a counterpart of the jirevious one, with diffuse peri- tonitis. After securing the stum]) of the tumour with tlie elastic ligature and the delta wire and Koeberle clamp, 1 examined the pelvis, and found on the right side an ovarian tumour about the size of an ordinary cocoanut. This I also removed ; and, on examining further into the pelvis, 1 found that the uterus, as in the preceding case, was bicornuous; that while the left horn had contained a four-months ovum, the right horn, into which I had introduced the sound, was empty and small. The patient made an excellent recovery. She passed, two days after the operation, a complete decidua, apparently from the empty horn. This is specially interest- ing, as the operation was performed three weeks after the abortion. These two cases seem to me of importance, first, because of the rarity of a bicornuous uterus. In both cases the left horn was pregnant and the right horn empty. In both cases the tumour was fil)rocystic and growing from the empty horn. Toth were large, the peritonitis recent, the adhesions numerous, and the operation long and tedious. The uterus, furtlier, in both cases had not by any means completely involuted. The following case illustrates well dystocia from impaction, due to a pedunculated myoma :— 1 saw the case witli the late Dr. Sinclair. He had been117 FIBROID TUMOURS DURING PREGNANCY. called l)y a midwife to a womau, a multipara, who had been in labour for ten hours, aud who had made no progress, and was in addition bleeding profusely. Dr. Sinclair found the patient in violent labour, and on examination found a large mass, firm and liard, blocking up the vagina, there being only a space of about half an inch between the tumour and the vaccinal wall, througli whicli the fingers could be passed with difficulty. Togetlier we examined the patient. The head could not be reached per vaginam, out could be palpated througb the abdomen, apparently of ordinary dimensions. Under deep aiuesthesia it was ])ossible to get the fingers beyond the tumour aud feel a tliick hard pedicle, and round it the rim of tlie cervix. The head was not lying on the tumour, but evidently pressing hard on the neck of the pedicle. It was just possible to toucli the head. Obviously, removal of the obstructing mass was the only course to be pursued. We endeavoured to get the ecraseur round the base as far as possible. In this we only partially succeeded, for the tumour was so tense and so completely filled the vagina that we had to be content to grasp the greater portion, and, as was to be expected after cutting so large a surface, the hemorrhage was very profuse. To stop the bleeding we put on forceps and pulled down the liead. After delivery the hemorrhage continued severe. We found the pedicle, which was long and tliick, attached within the cervix. There was nothing for it but to grasp the bleeding stump with forceps, and to pass a needle through it and throw a double knot over it. This entirely stopped the hamiorrhage. The tumour was, of course, much larger in the vagina than after its removal, and was of the nature of a fibrous polypus of unusually large size. Both mother and child did well. This is the only time I have met with a similar dystocia during labour. I have had twice to deal with ovarian cys- tomata as an obstruction. In both cases aspiratory needle, andCLINICAL PAPERS. ii8 subsei^uent delivery with forceps, were successful both as regards inotlier aud child. There was very considerable rise of temperature and pulse, aud for some fourteeu days the patient was distinctly septic, and during that time careful antiseptic iutra-uterine douching was carried out. Three weeks afterwards. Dr. Sinclair examined her, and curiously enough he found the Tait knot })rojecting from the cervix. The records of fibrous ])olypi, or pediculated submucous fibroids coni})licating the puer])eriuni, are comparatively rare. In some cases parturition and the subsequent changes which go on during the puerperium have exercised a most satisfactory result on even large tumours. These cases, however, are comparatively seldom met with. Lohlein ^ relates a most important observation, where a large fibroid tumour which had been tliagnosed before pregnancy was diminished greatly during the puerperium; indeed, in a subsequent pregnancy, the uterus did not reach its usual size. Kauffman - mentions a case where he saw a huge fibroid disappear after abortion, and did not appear again in a subsequent pregnancy. The influence they exert on labour, and their management during the process, do not fall into the scope of this paper. I have at present to deal only with submucous fibrous polypi complicating the puerperium. So far as I can find, the records of such cases are comparatively scanty. Dr. Eamsay,^ Eroughty-Ferry, reported to the Edinbugh IMedico- Chirurgical Society in 1858, a case in which a submucous pediculated fibroid, weighing 2 lb., gave rise to hcTinorrhages in the third stage, and was expelled spontaneously, though gan- grenous, on tlie tenth day post-partum. The patient made an excellent recovery. Sedgewick ^ reports a case of gangrenous submucous myoma of the posterior wall of the uterus, the ^ Ztsclir.f. Oebiirtsh. u. Oyndk., Stuttgart, 1877, Bd. i. S. 1*21. ^ Monalschr. f. Gchurtsh. u, Qyniik., Berlin, 1862. ^ Edin. Med. Journ., July 1858. ■' Si. Thomas’s JIosjo. Jicp., London, 1870, vol. i. p. 3-19.FIBROID TUMOURS DURING PREGNANCY. 119 gangrene liaving been caused by the injection of liquor ferri perchloridi, on account of post-partuni lueniorrbage immedi- ately after the birth. Susserott,^ in liis inaugural dissertation, refers to cases published by IMaunoury and Ashwell, in which similar gangrenous tumours were s})ontaneously expelled during the puerperiuni. Tliere are recorded other cases by Fallin, Tarnier,- Oldham, Triestley, and 'Shaltorta, in wliicli the tumour was expelled l)y simple uterine contraction without being either gangrenous or decomposed, with an entirely favourable result to the mother. The majority, it would appear, of these sul)iiiucous fibroids do not l)ecome gangrenous ; when they do so, it is obviously from their coming in contact witli the external air, or from direct injury during labour, or the application of some irritant, as in Sedgewick’s case. A form of gangrene or necrosis may occur in subserous tumours, or interstitial tumours after labour, but this must Ije carefully differentiated from that occurring in the submucous variety. < fusserow finds that when purulent degeneration and gangrene take place in the submucous variety, it is the result of clianges in the circulation due to uterine contraction. Often the subserous tumours become larger and softer after labour, and give undoubted appearances of fluctuation. This apparent enlargement is due in many cases to the involution of the uterus, the tumour appearing larger in proportion tlum before. In other cases they really do get larger and softer, owing to serous infiltration from the disturbance of the circulatiou. Martin ^ and Horwitz ^ both mention cases of submucous fibroid in the puerperiuni wliich became gangrenous, and gave rise, through septicaaiiia, to a fatal result. Kucheumeister ^ had a case in whicli a tumour weiu’hiuo; about a pound was expelled on tlie forty-fourth day, post- partum, after having given rise to high fever from suppuration. ' “ Inatig. Diss.,” Rostock, 1870. " “ Die Neukildiiiigeii des Uterus.” ^ Ztschr. f. Gchurtsh. v.. Gyniik., Stuttgart, 1870, Rd. i. S. 232. * St. Petersb. mcd. Ztschr., Ifd. xiv. S. 294. ® Gusserow, loc. cit.120 CLINICAL PAPERS. Case 1.—]\Irs. S. came under mv ol)servatioii years ago as a liospital out-patient. She liad an enlarged retroverted uterus. For this a sound was })assed and a Hodge pessary introduced, and shortly afterwards slie l)ecame pregnant, and was delivered at term. Ihvo years ago she came under my care again, at St. Luke’s Home, sullering from menorrhagia as well as intermenstrual hiemorrhage. The uterus was found enlarged 2 in. in tlie first stage of retroversion. A fibrous polypus was susi)ected, and, after considerable trouble, I managed to dilate the cervix sufficiently with tupelo tents to alhnv me .just to feel tlie l»ase of tlie tumour. The uterine contractions which this occasioned, however, were so violent, and the pain and general disturbance so great, that I was oldiged to desist. Slie passed tlien into tlie liands of my friend Dr. Kirk of Latligate. I heard no more of lier until she was sent liack to me by him with her uterus enlarged to the umbilicus, and with her menstruation sup]>ressed for five months. In the note sent to me with her by Di'. Kirk, he expressed the opinion that pregnancy alone accounted for the condition. On her arrival in the town, I examined her, and found the uterus enlarged, corresponding to a six-months pregnancy. The cervix was somewhat dilated, and through it 1 could feel the memliranes with difficulty. Ballottement could fie jiractised. There could be no doubt that she was pregnant. The following evening labour pains supervened, and she was delivered of a five- months fmtus and ]ilacenta. Accompanying the third stage there was very jirofuse luemorrhage, so much so that I was obliged to explore the interior of her uterus, which 1 did uuder chloroform, and with the assistance of mv friend Dr. Milne IMuriay. Attached to the fundus by a thick, though soft pedicle, 1 found a well-marked fibrous ]ioly]ius al.iout the size of a small orange. xVfter consultation with Dr. iMurray, we determined, owing to the patulous condition of the os and its easy access.I2I FIBROID TUMOURS DURING PREGNANCY. to remove the tumour. Fixing a volsella tlirougb its sub- stance, and at the same time steadying the fundus uteri, it was easily removed by avulsion. The lueniorrbage ceased and tlie uterus brmly contracted. Immediately after its removal the cavity of the uterus was washed (uit l>y a liot uterine douche of 1—2000 corrosive. The following day the uterus was again washed out. There was no luemorrliage, but large pieces of apparently Ideaclied decidua ])assed, witli large, extremely fcetid sloughing masses. On the third the ])atient was quite well. Oii the fourth day the discharge was ofleiisive, and was accompanied by flaky pieces of foetid decidua. The uterus was again washed out. For tw(^ days thereafter the patient continued to do well, but on the second day there was a rise of pulse and temperature, extreme tenderness over the abdomen, and she died, apparently from acute septiciemia, on the following morning. Xo post- mortem was allowed. I attribute the death of this patient to septiciemia, due to gangrene either of the stump of the tumour, or else to a second polypus becoming gangrenous through the admission of air. The former is, I think, the most likely explanation, judging by the early ap])earance of the flaky sloughing mass, and the fact that the discharge was offensive from the first. Case 2.—Mrs. C. S. was delivered after a normal labour. On the fifth day post-partum, the hiemorrhage being profuse and noticeably offensive in character, my friend Dr. John I’layfair—under whose charge the lady was—proceeded to explore the cavum uteri, and found an irregular rough body projecting into it, which he diagnosed to be a uterine poly])us. He asked me to see the case with him. AVith careful antiseptic precautions I dilated the cervix uteri with my fingers, and at the fundus uteri I discovered the mass which Dr. Playfair had descriljed to me, and, fimling it pediculated and soft, easily twisted it ofl‘ with my fingers. The mass was122 CLINICAL PAPERS. about the size of a Tangerine orange, and of the usual struc- ture. The discliarge for many days was very otfensive. The uterus was washed out daily with warm corrosive, and the lady made an excellent recovery. The two cases which I have just recorded present characteristic examples of a rare complication of the puer- perium. Judging by the history of the cases recorded, many of these l)oly])i were extruded spontaneously. The presence of such growths during tlie puerjjerium is not without grave danger. Sometimes they soften, break down, and decompose, and are the cause of ])eritonitis, and become the seat of gan- grenous degeneration. This is cliielly the case in the sub- mucous fibroid projecting into the cavity of the puerperal uterus, similar to those wliicli I have just recorded. Similar cases are related by Senderling,^ Yeld,“ Kiwisch,^ AVynn Williams,^ and Duncan.^ Wynn Williams relates a case where a large submucous fibroid, wliich obstructed labour, was enucleated and removed in ids ellbrts to break up the child. Weber ° relates a case in wliich turning had been had recourse to, and where a tumour as large as a man’s fist was removed with the placenta. Grouping together the cases which have hitherto been described, and adding my own two cases, it is convenient to arrange them tlms :— 1. Xon-gangrenous, in Avhich a healthy tumour was expelled Avithout any artificial aid . . .5 2. Gangrenous........ 6 3. Gangrenous, or non-gangrenous, removed artificially Avith liand or instrument . . . .10 These constitute, so far as I knoAA', the cases recorded, making a total of . . . . . .21 As the practical deduction from these Ave may formulate ^ GusseroAv, loc. cH. - Loc. cit. ^ Prag. Vrtljschr., 1871. ^ Trans. Ohsf. London, \’ol. xvii. p. 172. ® Ousserow, loc. cit. .^[ona.tschr. f. Gchurtsh. n. Gyndk., llevliii, 15d. xx\’. S. 187.FIBROID TUMOURS DURING PREGNANCY. 123 the rule, that when the tumour is easily accessible, and can be removed without a severe operation in the first few days of the puerperium, such artificial removal ought to be had recourse to, in order to prevent the possibility of gangrene and septic absorption. Care must be taken that the whole tumour be removed, in case of the base sloughing and giving rise to septicemia, as in my first case. If there be any doubt as to the possibility of its entire removal, it had better be left alone and allow nature to expel it spontaneously. If, however, tlie removal involves a severe operation, it would obviously be prudent not to interfere. Of course, in those cases where the tumour gives rise to septiciemia late in the puerperium, its immediate removal is matter of necessity. In all cases of removal of these growths in the puerperium, too much stress cannot be laid on the extreme importance of washing out the cavity of the uterus with corrosive daily, until every trace of foetor has disappeared. In both my cases pieces of slough and very foetid discharge continued for many days after the removal; and, in spite of careful washing out, one ultimately succumbed.Observations on the Bladder during the l^larly Puerperium. I have elsewliei'o discussed siaiie clinical features of the l)ladder during pregnancy, and specially to the pressure exerted on it by parturition. On tlie ])i‘esent occasion I desire to draw attention to some conditions of the bladder during the normal puerperium. During tlie second stage of labour the Idadder is either voluntarily or involuntarily relieved of its contents, so that at the conclusion of the tliird stage tlie organ is usually empty. Immediately succeeding tlie third stage, and during the early puerperium, the bladder exerts an im- portant intiuence on the uterus. This inliuence is mainly oliserved as atlecting the position of the uterus. It is con- venient here to look at the relative positions of bladder and uterus. The bladder has sunk down into the pelvis from the abdomen, and after labour is to lie found, usually empty, lying lielow the brim of the true pelvis, but on a higher level than during pregnancy. For while the liladder, when empty or slightly distended, is spread out below the anterior uterine segment, so that, on introducing a catheter, its distal end and ^ the meatus are on the same level, and in some cases the ' fundus is lower than the meatus, after labour this relation no ) longer exists ; for the inlet of the pelvis becoming free, and f pressure being removed from the bladder, the organ is allowed to expand upwards, so that a catheter goes no longer directly back, but its point is directed upwards, and is consequently ' elevated above the level of the meatus. The uterus, as to position immediately after labour, varies. It is pressed forwards by the action of the abdominal muscles IBLADDER DURING EARLY FUERPERIUM. 125 acting on its posterior surface. But it may be said roughly that its fundus, some hours after delivery, is to be found at or quite close to the level of the umbilicus. Immediately after labour, I have said, it varies, being sometimes so deep in the pelvis as to be scarcely felt, and at all times its level immediately after delivery is lower than after the lapse of a few hours. The organ is inclined forwards, so that the anterior surface of its fundus is in close relation to the anterior abdominal wall, through which it can ahvays be readily palpated. The organ is too large to fall below the promontory, and in the ordinary position the pressure of the intestine is directed on the posterior wall. It is usually found occupying a central position, although deviations from the mesial line are very frequent. I do not now" refer to distinct displace- ments, but simply deflections of the uterus to one or other side. Out of sixty cases observed at the Maternity Hospital, fourteen deviate—four left, ten right ; forty-six median. Borner noted sixty-four cases—fifty-three median, eleven deviations. Such is the relative position of uterus and bladder when the latter viscus is empty. While the bladder is filling and after it is distended, various changes take place in its relation to the uterus. Unlike either early pregnancy, where its expansion is interfered with by the anteverted uterus, or late pregnancy, where it is limited by the anterior uterine segment, or parturition, where it is compressed between the abdominal wall and uterine body, the post-partum bladder meets with no obstacle to its distension upwards. Its recognition supra- pubically is simple enough. Per vaginam, when the bladder is distended, through the anterior vaginal wall is felt a firm elastic swelling, which completely fills the anterior vaginal arch and presses it down. The cervix is high up and well back, and it is impossible to feel any part of the anterior uterine wall in front of the cervix, unless, indeed, very con- siderable pressure is made on the uterus from above.126 CLINICAL PAPERS. The most obvious effect wliich distension of the bladder exerts on the uterus is familiar to every practical accoucheur. If the hand is passed over the abdomen twelve or fifteen 1 lours after labour, and the fundus uteri is felt higli and far hack from the abdominal wall and less distinctly palpated, the explanation is to be looked for in a distended bladder. First, then, displacement upwards. The term displace- ment does not, liowever, convey accurately what occurs. No doubt there is a certain amount of ascension of the uterus. This is small. The heightening of the fundus uteri is brought about through the distending bladder straightening the uterus and making it upright. As the bladder increases in size, tlie uterus is pushed further back from the alidominal walls. Some of the intestines in this way slip down between the uterus and alxlominal parietes, and then palpation is rendered more difficult. It is not so much a mere dragging up of the uterus, as an increase in its real height by the straightening of the organ. In Autefage and Depaul’s experiments with the hysterometer—an instrument constructed like a pair of com- passes, one branch being introduced into the vagina to the cervix, and the other externally at the fundus uteri—refer- ence is made to this point. By means of this instrument, devised by Depaul and carried into practice by Autefage, it was attempted to estimate the rate of involution of the uterus. Autefage mentions that the actual length of the uterus was increased while the bladder was distended, and that the ors:an returned to its normal size when the bladder was emptied. There seems to me to be a fallacy here, for with a full bladder the distance between the two buttons of the hystero- meter will be increased, owing to the bulging of the vesical tumour rendering the whole organ more erect; and, further, owing to the displacement of the cervix further back in the vagina. In order to ascertain the fact of increase in the cavity of the uterus, the measurements would require to be taken with the uterine sound.BLADDER DURING EARLY PUERPERIUM. 127 I have just said that the noniial puerperal uterus is central. This, however, is a point upon which there is apparently some difterence of opinion. Tor while some, as Schroder, and with him the majority of observers, hold that the usual position of the uterus is riglit lateral deviation, others, such as Bonier, maintain that in the majority of cases the uterus is central. It is ini])ortant, in studying the eflects of bladder distension, to look at this ([uestion shortly. 1. Considering the great pre])onderance of right lateral deviation of the pregnant uterus, such an inclination during the i)uerperium is just to be expected. Tor instance, in the table given by Joulin from Dubois and Bajot, among one hundred women, twenty no deviation, four to left, seventy-six to right. This right lateral deviation is not only to be expected, but, as has been shown by the authors above mentioned, and by many other oliservations, is really the case. Yet several considerations go to throw some doubt on points, for the more accurate observations of Bonier show that, when certain conditions are imposed, the central lie of the uterus is found to be the most common—out of sixty cases, fifty-five mesial, four right, one left; or, in the sixty cases taken during my own term, where the same conditions were observed, in forty-six no deviation, ten right, four left. Tiow these con- ditions are—(1) an empty bladder; (2) an empty rectum; (3) the supine position of patient. 'Wdien these conditions are observed, it will be found that the mesial position is the most frequent, and, being the most frequent, therefore the normal one. l\Iy own observations liear tliis out, and I have found that when lateral deviation was masked with either a loaded rectum or a somewhat dis- tended bladder, the mesial position was resumed when these organs were emptied. Further, and this is a point which is not sufficiently insisted on, the position of the patient has a great deal to do with these deviations. A very slight deviation of the liody to one or other side is sufficient to give128 CLINICAL PAPERS. tlie organ a set in that direction, and Pfannknch has shown that, even in cases where tlie iiterns had the rigid lateral deviation well marked during pregnancy, a few hours lying on the left side is siiflicient to change the wliole relation of parts. Tliis is a fact of which tliere is abundant clinical evidence. I have frequently, in noting the position of the uterus post- ])artuni, fallen into tlie error of recording the lie as lateral- tins being due to the jiatient lying on one or other side immediately before, for 1 have observed that the organ does not resume its central iiosition until the patient has assumed the dorsal decubitus for some time. Now, a very inconsider- able lateral inclination of the pelvis is sutticient to cause this. It is therefore absolutely essential, in settling the question of the most common lie of the uterus, to ensure that the pelvis be horizontally jilaced on the lied. This lateral displacement of the uterus liy the accidents of jtosition is of importance, when we come to look at the inliuence of the distended bladder on the post-partum uterus, which is almost uniforndy to cause a lateral deviation of the organ. A central uterus becomes laterally displaced, and one which is originally laterally displaced becomes more so. This condition is almost nniforni. It is very rare to find tlie uterus central witli a full bladder. The displacement is to a certain point in propor- tion to the repletion of the bladder; but a comparatively small ({uantity of urine is sufficient to throw the uterus from the mesial line. Now, this deviation may either be right or left. Kehrer made an experiment on a cadaver by artificially filling the bladder, and found a lateral inclination of the ])uerperal uterus with the fundus to the right. Clinically observed, the riglit deviation is the more fre- <pient. Tliis, however, althougli it has tlie support of the majority of observers, and although it is the deviation which is most easily ex])lained, does not seem to be so frequent as alleged ; for, during my last term of office at tlie IMaternityBLADDER DURING EARLY PUERPERIUM. 129 Hospital, I was careful to note every case in the early puer- })ermm in which a distinct vesical tnniour was observed, and without a single exception the vesical tnniour was to the right and the uterus to the left. To be exact, out of thirty- eight puerpera observed, there were nine cases of distinct vesical tumour, all of which were right. Now, there are various causes at work in causing these lateral detlections of the uterus. That it is the bladder which dis])laces the uterus, of course there is no doubt, for I have just shown that with an eni])ty bladder the uterus is central. In the first })lace, I believe in many cases they are accidental. As I have already hinted, the right lateral deviation of the uterus admits of ready ex- planation, in the previously existing deviation during pregnancy, and probably a loaded condition of the rectum may he a factor ill right uterine deviation. l)Ut what explanati(tn is to lie ottered of left deviation ? This lateral displacement of the uterus by the distending bladder is matter for study. The mechanism I take to he as follows:—As the bladder fills, the fundus uteri is raised by being thrown from the abdominal wall. It then falls to the right side, not, as I lielieve, owing to the liladder pressing it to that side, but (1) from its natural lie in that direction obtained during ])regnancy; (2) owing, to some extent, to the influence of the rectum ; (3) it may lie from the accident of position. The bladder })ost-partum naturally tends to expand towards the right side rather than to left; and if the influence of the bladder were the only factor at work in displacing the uterus, this organ would deviate more to the left than the right. There seems to me to be two reasons for this : 1. The female bladder is marked by lateral asymmetry. The following observations were made by Barkow:—Out of thirty-five bladders of adult women, in ten the asymmetry was minor ; in twenty-one the asymmetry was major ; out of the thirty-five only four were completely symmetrical. The asymmetry is much more marked on the right than on 9CLIAICAL PAPERS. 130 the left, llarkow found, liglit eioliteen; left eight. This asymmetry, though characteristic of the female bladder generally, is so constantly i»resent in the bladders of parous women, that it may be regarded as the normal condition. There is a fallacy, however, in assuming that a l)ladder will distend when removed from the body, or even in the body after the viscera have been removed, in the same way as it would in the closed abdominal cavity. For instance, in a section of a female ])elvis of a girl, ict. 18, by Legendre, he shows the bladder distended, not as one would ex])ect in a young girl. Lraune, referring to this, mentions that it ])robahly arose from the Ijladder being distended after the viscus was removed. 2. The right lateral expansion of the l)ladder immediately after labour is fav(jured Ijy tlie condition of matters ante- ])artum. Thus the bladder is flattened under the anterior and lower segment (»f uterus, aiid if careful sounding of the Idadder is made it will be found, as 1 have shown eLsewhere, that while little space is left on left side, the bladder is free on the right, owing, no doubt, to the preponderance of L.O.A. position. It seems to me that if the uterus were a perfectly free body, not biassed by any deviation to one side or another, the effect of the filling of the bladder would be first to raise it, and then to deflect it to the left. 1 have made f<jur ex})eriments in women in whom, during ])regnancy, there was no lateral deviation to be noted, and in whom the position of the pelvis was as nearly horizontal, and in each the uterus, with an eni])ty bladder, was central. In each case the uterus, with full bladder, was hfi and bladder luniour right. In each, uterus during ja'egnancy central. On morning of third day l)ladiler and rectum empty, patient supine, uterus central. Case 1.—Distinct vesical tumour; direction upwards and to right; uterus ])ushed to left, A in. above umbilicus ;BLADDER D URING EARLY PUERL^ERLUM. 131 2 0 oz. of urine drawn oft'; vesical tumour disappeared; uterus sank 2 in. below umbilicus and l)ecame mesial. Case 2.—Ovoid vesical tumour, 1 in. above umbilicus; main portion to right; nterus to left; 20 oz. of urine drawn off; uterus mesial. Case 3.—Distinct bladder tumour extending to right side, Id in. above the level of umbilicus; uterus to left and back; 2 8 oz. of urine drawn off; uterus mesial. Case 4.—Distinct vesical tumour, 1^- in. above umbilicus; lies to right of mesial line; uterus to left; 32 oz. of urine drawn oft'; uterus central. Obs. 2, Case 4.—Vesical tumour extending 1 in. above umbilicus ; main portion to right; uterus to left; 2 5 oz. urine <lrawn oft’; uterus central. It seems to me, then, that normally tlie uterus in the early puerperium, under the conditions mentioned—namely, an empty bladder and rectum and the horizxnital position—is central; that when the bladder is full the uterus is deflected either to the right or left side. If to the right side, the deflection is due—(1) to a previous existing right lateral deviation during pregnancy; (2) to the presence of a loaded rectum; (3) to the accident of position. If to the left side, it is mainly due—(1) to the filling of the bladder, which, for the reasons mentioned, expands to the right; or (2) to the left lateral decubitus of the patient. It is to be further observed that these displacements are more common in early puerperium than in late— 1. Because more urine is secreted in early than late puerperium, and therefore the l^ladder gets more rapidly distended. Gassner has shown that increased diuresis is the normal condition during the puerperium, and both this author and Winckel distinctly show that the increase is most marked in the first days after delivery.CLINICAL PAPERS. 2. J^ecause retention of urine is more common in the early days of the piierperium. 3. The uterus Ijecomes less mobile as the ])uerperium advances. It is matter of clinical observation, that in manv cases the puerjteral uterus rotates round its central axis, so that, in fact, the transverse axis of the uterus no longer corresponds to the transverse diameter of the pelvis. One side of the uterus is thrown forwards, with the result that tlie transverse axis of the uterus corresponds to the obli(jue diameter of the ]>elvis. Tliis occurs a]>art from any rejtletion of the bladder, and is recognised during ])regnancy wlien the anterior surface of the uterus looks to tlie right, so tliat tlie transverse axis of the fundus is the rigid obli(j[ue diameter of the })elvis. Out of sixty-four cases mded by Bbrner, in fifty rotation was totally absent—both sides of the uterus being on the same })lane, the transverse axis of tlie uterus corresponding to the transverse axis of the pelvis. In twelve there was ilistinct rotation to the right side, and in two rotation to the left. This rotation of the uterus is specially well marked in cases where tlie liladder is distended, and it occurs with distension of the bladder in cases where it is absent, where the viscus is empty. If the rotation, apart from the tilling viscus, be to the right, then when it is full it is more marked in that direction, and vice vcrsd. It is worthy of note that the filling of the bladder never causes rotation in an 0])])0site direction, rfannkuch remarks that “ sometimes when the bladder is very full one can observe a rotation of the uterus, in the sense that the lateral edge is turned round towards the front.” In the cases I have recorded, this rotation has lieen distinctlv remarked, to the extent that out of fortv cases •j fc which have been noted, in ten, apart altogether from bladder relations, the rotation to the right was marked ; and in those cases where the bladder was full, the rotation has been noted twice.BLADDER DURING EARLY PUERPERIUM. 133 We now come to look at the (quantity of urine re(|nired t(j produce these three definite alterations in the post-])artum uterus, namely—(1) displacement upwards and hackwai’ds ; (2) displacement laterally; (2) rotation. I haye found that from 20 to 30 oz. of urine are sufficient to bring about the upward and lateral dis})lacenients of the uterus. From 8 to 15, 1 haye found, make Imt yery little a})]irecialjle <litference. rfaunkuch says that 100 c.c. of urine—i.e. 3‘5 oz. —raise the uterus, on an ayerage, alimit 1 cm., that is, a ill- Autefage says that with a bladder full, of from 400 to GOO grins, of urine, nothing is more common, the day after accouchement, than to obserye an augmentation of the real height of the uterus, which is not less than from 4 to 9 cms.. If to 3 in. Once he found 3 to 9 cms., usually 5 cms.. If in. Now, on comparing these figures with each other, the results will be found to lie yery different, and the explanation will lie found in the fact that the obseryations were made in different perioils of tbe puerperium. I haye already shown that this is important, because the displacing infliience of the bladder on the uterus proportionally diminishes as the puerperium adyances, and I need not again here refer to the reason for this. In the present communication I refer to the early puei'iierium, and here 1 mean to state that an amount of urine yarying from 20 to 30 oz. is necessary to bring aliout the position changes in the uterus to which I haye referred ; that, further, the relatiye amount of position change is more marked with 25 oz. than with the largest quantities; or, in other words, that the displacement of the uterus does not, after a certain point has been reached, bear a direct jiroportion to the repletion of the bladder. For example, the displace- ni^nt changes—upwards, laterally, and transyersely—while distinctly marked with 25 oz., will not be proportionatebj increased with 50 oz.Olivloiis Ascites, with an Illustrative Case. ()l)striicti()u of the thoracic duct, especially if it be oTadiial, may give rise to no symptoms wliatever during life, since anastomotic channels are established througli which the lymph and chyle enter the circulation. However, on the other hand, congestion of the lyin])hatic system may give rise t(j definite signs which can l.)e clinically recognised, and this is especially so when the lacteals of the abdominal cavity are within the area affected. A few cases have been recorded in which chylous Huid was found in the pleural cavity, but in all these this was only secondary to a similar eHusiou into the peri- toneal cavity. Only some sixty-three cases of chylous ascites are recorded. It is therefore an extremely rare condition. Mrs. 1\, iet. .‘)9, was sent to Ward 28 by Dr. I’rangnell of (Jrahamstown, on Septeml)er 29. She com})lained of swelling of the abdomen, and gradually advancing weakness and emaciation. Hp to within three months of admission she had enjoyed good health, had had six children, the youngest l)eing years old, and menstruation had been normal and regular. For two montlis she had noticed the gradual enlarge- ment of the aI)domen, and had been losimi; wei^bt. 'riie patient was generally somewhat emaciated, and the examination of the alxlomen revealed considerable distension, evidently due to ascites. The sujuu’ficial veins were much distended, tlie skin was somewliat deeply i)igmented, and on deep palpation several irregular hard masses could be detected in the umbilical and epigastric, regions. A diagnosis of cancer of the omentum and mesenterv, with resulting ascites, was135 cm Z O us ASCITES. arrived at. For some time, with careful dieting, the patieiit’.s general condition distinctly improveil, l)ut occasionally for a day or two she had a relap.se, showing itself in sickness, nau.sea, and vomiting. However, on the whole, after l)eing three weeks in liospital, she was distinctly Ijetter, although tlie distension of the abdomen was greater, and caused her much more inconvenience. On November 2, tlie abilominal cavity was as})irated, and 380 o/. of fluid were removed. Tlie fluid presented a remark- able ajipearance. At first sight it was exactly like pus, hut when })laced in a specimen glass seemed much more moliile. It had a pale yellow colour with a suggestion of opalescence, and at first was ([uite homogeneous, sliowing no deposit, but after standing for about twenty-four liours a slight creamy layer was found on the surface. It laid a sweetish, milky odour. Dr. Milroy kindly examined the fluid for me, and reported as follows :—“ The fluid which was sent to me con- sisted partly of finely emulsified fat, but more largely of a granular debris consisting mainly of fat. About 2 ]ier cent, of fat was present. The pigment present was lutein.” The granular dcT)ris was found, on microscopical examina- tion, to consist of basophile leucocytes in a state of fatty degeneration. After withdrawal of this fluid, examination of the abdomen revealed a movable tumour in the region of the gall bladder, and an indefinite irregular solid mass was detected in the region of the greater curvature of the stomacli. The aspira- tion of the abdomen relieved the i)atient of her symptoms for some time, but she still suffered from occasional vomitiny; and inability to take solid food. The vomited matter was examined fre([uently, but contained no blood. From November IG, that is, about a fortnight after the ta])j)ing, reniarkalde and specially pronounced emaciation set in, while the ahdo- minal cavity became more and more distended with fluid. Die discomfort induced liy rapid accumulation was so great,136 CLINICAL PAPERS. that although tlie patient ^vas evidently sinking ra])idly, she was tapped again, when about .‘350 oz. were removed. The Huid })resented exactly the same characters as before. The ])atient, however, did not seem to ini])rove in the least, but maduallv not worse, and died five (lavs later, on November 26. A jtost-mortem examination was made by Dr. Welsh, of winch the re})ort was as follows:— “The hodv showed marked emaciation, and the skin was jaundiced. “ Thorax.— I’ericardium and heart were practically healthy, hnt the heart was small and showed some lirown atro^diy. Each ])leural sac contained al)out 6 oz. of hile-stained fluid, d'he suhjdeural lymphatics were studded with minute cancerous nodules; these were not found in the substance of the lung, 'riiere were signs of chronic hronchitis and emphysema. “ Abdomen.—A few ounces of turbid, Itile-stained Huid were removed from the abdominal cavity. 'I'he small intestine showed some commencing peritonitis. The mesenteric glands were generally enlarged from malignant infiltration. The stomach was much shrunken, and 6lied with deeply bile- stained mucus. A large cancerous neojdasni was growing from the inner surface of the anterior wall, extending from 1 in. from the ])ylorus, for 4 in. along the lesser curvature. In appearance the tumour was a soft^ fungating mass, raised about 1 in. above the surface of the healthy mucous meml)raue, and presented some ulceration in the centre. The tumour consisted lar<>’elv of soft Gelatinous tissue, but was evidentlv malignant in nature, and had undergone extensive colloid degeneration, ddie gall bladder was distended with bile, and the glands and tissues along the larger bile ducts and in the porta (4‘ the liver were extensivelv infiltrated with cancer. 'Die liver itself contained one small cancer nodule. The sjdeen was healthy, but the kidneys were somewhat cirrhotic and fatty. The small intestine was throughout its whole length greatly thickened and contracted. It showed an immenseCHYLOUS ASCITES. 137 number of small cancer nodules surrounding the lacteals, close to the mesenteric attachment. Tlie lacteals were very exten- sively occluded. The tlioracic duct and the receptaculum chyli were carefully dissected out and were found healtliy. There was, however, a mass of infiltrated glands lying close lieside and pressing on the receptaculum.” llEMAitKS.—Tlie cause of chylous extravasation is eitlier an ol)struction to the How of chyle, or to distinct rupture of tlie thoracic duct, or of tlie receptaculum chyli. A few cases of rupture have been recorded, as for examjde by Quincke, in which chylous hydrothorax resulted, and Wilhelm reports a case in which the accident occurred during an attack of whooping-cough. Wliitla has also recorded a case of rupture. Itokitansky recorded a case of peritoneal and pleural effusion, in which the fluid was chylous in nature. It was associated with mitral regurgitation and cardiac dilatation. In my case the chylous effusion seemed to be due to an obstruction to tbe How of chyle at the junction of the intes- tinal mesenteric lacteals. The thoracic duct itself was normal, and the pressure of the cancerous glands around the rece])taculum was proliably not sufficient to occlude it. Thus, in some cases, the lesion was in the thoracic duct itself, whereas in others it has been due to congestion of the larger lym])hatic capillaries, or of the smaller lacteals within the mesentery itself. In most of the cases the termination has been fatal, due partly to the original disease, and partly to the consecpient starvation. Some authorities have endeavoured to differentiate between a, true chylous ascites and an ascites adiposus, or chyliformis. iMicrosopically the fluids are similar in appearance, but on chemical and microsco[)ic examination the differences are detected. Senator adopts Quincke’s classification, and dis- tinguishes the two as follows :— In chylous ascites, the microscope reveals veiy finely granular fat cells, and an absence of large fat globules.•3S CLINICAL PAPERS. 111 adipose ascites, cliemical exaiiiiiiation shows the pre- sence of sugar ; it shows similar hut much larger fat cells, lyui])h cells, ami iu some cases cancer cells. This variety occurs cliieHy in tuberculous or malignant l>eritonitis, and is a result of a fatty degeneration of the serous endotlielium, and of lymph and j)us cells. Althougli tliis view is very generally accepted, a few authorities maintain that the diherence cannot l)e held as absolute, for they assert that, since sugar is absorbed chieliy into tlie portal circulation direct, and only a minute quantity, if any, by the lacteals, the presence or absence of sugar cannot be considered of any importance in diflerentiating between the two conditions. Further, they seem disinclined to believe that fatty degeneration of endothelial, tuberculous or cancerous cells could occur to sucli an extent as to give ascitic Huid such definite characteristics. In a recent ]>aper read at tlie Socictc iMedicale des lldpitaux, Fernand Widal and Prosper Merklin discussed lactescent ascites of lymphatic origin. They pointed out tliat many authorities regarded milky fluid in the abdominal cavity as chylous iu nature. Others, liowever, consider that the fat might l>e due to fattv degeneration of extravasated cells. Lion first sliowed that milky ascitic fluid might be other than chyle. In a case of cancer of tlie ovary, he found that the li([uid contained a substance analogous to casein, but no fat. Aschard and A}>ert respectively published cases in wliich the Iluid, when examined under tlie microscope, sliowed no fatty globules, 1)ut innumerable minute refractile granules. Widal and IMerklin hold that the distinction between chylous and nou-chylous ascites jiresents great difficulties; and, further, that in the chylous variety the (luautity varies very much in different cases and even at different times in the same case. 'I'liey also ])oint out that the kind of leucocytes found in the etfnsion show that chylous ascites may be lymphatic in origin, and they record an illustrative case. i\Iicroscopic exaniina-139 CHYL 0 US ASCITES. tiou of the fluid removed showed no fatty particles, but abundance of leucocytes, 90,000 to 100,000 per cubic millimetre. Only cells of different sizes, all with a single nucleus, were discovered. At the auto})sy no peritonitis was found, and even though there was no a])parent lesion of the abdo- minal lymphatics, the milky li([uid was proved lymphatic in origin. The patient liad cirrliosis of tl)e liver and tnbercle <jf the lungs.Senile Uterine Cntarrli. 'I'he condition wliicli I ])io]»ose sliortly to discuss,is one wlucJi is iniich inoi'e t‘re(|neutly met with in private than in liospital i)raetice. Indeed, 1 can scarcely say that I have met with a ty])ical case in liosi)ital. Tliis is easily explained, as the symptoms, tlanigh trouljlesome, are not severe, and the })Oorer classes do not seek relief exce]jt under circumstances wliich are more f)i‘ less urgent. Tiie sul)ject of endometritis occurring in old women, oi' rather in women who have for some years passed tlie meno- pause, is hut meagrely if at all described in any of the text- books—not even in the more recent ones. Various monograplis liave, however, l)eeu written on the sul)ject, and the condition descril)ed under various titles. Thus, some have called it the “foetid endometritis of old women,” others “ post-climacteric endometritis.” IMatthews Dnnca.n described it under the name of the “ leucorrhcea of old women.” But I am inclined to think that the term wliich best describes the grou]> of symptoms is “ senile uterine catarrh.” With the ordinary uterine catarrh of fertile women every one is familiar, due to the (‘.onditiou of subacute endo- metritis, and one of the most freipieut causes of sterility. The ini]»ortance, however, of the condition occurring after the climacteric cannot 1)C (piestioned, and 1 am sure that a due a])[)reciation of it would save many an unfortunate woman from vaginal hysterectomy, which, with improved methods and increased safety, is too ajit to he had recourse to without ade(juate reason. It is well known that the great difficulty in the manage-141 SENILE UTERINE CATARRH. ineiit of such cases is the dit'fereutial diagnosis from malignant disease; hut it seems to me tliat this is exaggerated, and that with due care and no unnecessaiy haste, an accurate diagnosis can be made in the majority of cases. Sexton, in an admirahle paper on “ I’ost-climacteric Endometritis,” advocates tlie use of this term, because most apj)ear soon after the menopause. AVith this L entirely agree. However, while most do come under observation soon after menstruation has ceased, in my ex]>erience a large number seek advice many years after the climacteric, and these are the most marked cases, altliough tlie most difficult to diaguose. llefore going furtJier, and without multiplying cases, let me give three typical examj)les:— Cask 1.—A patient, ad. 70, complained of a fcctid nmco-])uruleut discharge, acconi})anied by constant pain in the back, with occasional and irregular attacks of colicky pain in the pelvis, but tliere was no haanorrhage wliatever. Slie was pale, sallow, and emaciated. The uterus was about 2.1 in. long, retroverted and mobile. The os was somewliat gai)ing. Her main trouble was the footitl discharge, and it was for that she specially asked advice. The condition had continued for eighteen months. The diagiujsis naturally lay between a commencing malignant disease of the body of tlie uterus and simple catarrh. She had a probe passed from time to time, dressed with pure carbolic, hot douching, and ausenic; and under tliis treatment she, after three months, was (piite cured, and lived for ten years longer. Xo microscopic examination was made. Case 2.—A patient, ad. 65, complained of profuse leucorrhaul discharge, sometimes streaked with blood, and occasionally accompanied by a small clot. She had well- marked backache, and occasionally griping pains in the142 CLINICAL JAPERS. ])elvis. Tlie uterus was considerably eubirged—about .‘51, in., bard and globular. In tliis case the diagnosis was again diHicult. The cervix was dilated, the cavity curetted and ])acked. The del)ris, under the microscope, showed no signs of either squamous or adenoid carcinoma. The patient laid no further trouble, and now, after six years, is ])erfectly well. 1 mention the lapse of time simply because it proves there was no tendency to malignancy in the condition. Case .‘5.—The third and last type of cases is that of a patient who, three years after the menopause, had a sudden and profuse laemorrhage; it was associateil with no jiain, the os was ga])ing and soft, the uterus enlargeil to about 551, in. d'he lacmorrhage continued at intervals of two or three davs for three weeks, dlie woman was extremely emaciated, and appeared in very feeble health. The difficulty here, 1 con- fess, was consideralde. With a view, therefore, to settle the question, T still further dilated the cervix, and finding no specially marke<l prominence in the walls, I scraped the mucous membi’ane, apjdied an escharotic, and afterwards drained by means of iodoform gauze, and the patient had no recurrence of her symptoms after a la.j)se of five years. This patient had every symptom of cancer, but there being no evidence of it on microsco]»ic examination, she was treated for the simple condition, and got well. As 1 have already said, 1 could multi]tly cases to illustrate these types, but I take it that these three illustrate what 1 consider the three forms of senile uterine catarrh:—(1) those associated with fcrtid discharge and no hamiorrhage ; (2) those associated with leucorrhcea and slight hannorrhage; and (53) those in which luemori'hage is the main, if not the only, syin])tom. Of course every one is aware that ]iost-climacteric hamorrhages are due in the main to—(1) the commencement of cancer, or (2) to the recrudescence of a fibroid, or (53)SENILE UTERINE CATARRH. 143 occasionally in gouty women; but of course in the gouty condition it is only a form of uterine catarrh, with gouty endometritis as its basis. The symptoms are extremely like those of malignant disease. The ]>atient suffers from vaginal irritation, and sliows marked signs of general cachexia, tlie skin becoming sallow, and general emaciation sets in. This is i-eally due to a slow sepsis, which is further shown in occasional rigors and night sweats. The most striking symptom, and that for which tlie patient generally seeks advice, is the vaginal dis- charge, whicli is watery and semipurulent, tliough frequently it contains a considerable amount of blood. The odour of this discliarge cannot be said to be characteristic; it is, as a rule, though not always, most offensive, and in some cases I have seen has been even more so than in marked cases of cancer. It may cease from time to time, and wlien it reappears it is generally with a gush of sanious pus. Along with these symptoms there is frequently a certain amount of abdominal pain, pain in the back, and “ progressive invalidism.” I’er vaginam, one finds the uterus slightly enlarged, or more often normal in size—as a rule, not normally atrophied. The introduction of the sound causes great pain, and if a scraping be removed, this sliows inflammatory changes— infiltration of leucocytes, reduplication of cells, and granular degeneration. The mucous membrane of the uterus has l.ie- come hypertrophied and succulent, and is easily detached. In cases of malignant disease of the body of the uterus, all the above-mentioned symptoms are aggravated, but on vaginal examination the uterus is always markedly enlarged, and much more fixed than in senile catarrh. lieal “ floodings ” are much more common in cancer than in the simple condition. With appropriate remedies, senile uterine catarrh will be found to rapidly improve in the course of a week or two, whereas any treatment other than operative is of no avail in malignant disease; and 1 have only verv144 CLINICAL PAPERS. seldom found that, iu doul)tful cases, the delay at all interfered with the ease with which vaginal hysterectomy was later, if necessary, performed. Now, with regard to the dillerenlial diagnosis between ])riniary corporeal cancer and senile uterine catarrli, tlie following points are wortliy of consideration :— Fii st and foremost, in most cases of jd imaiy fnndal cancel', sometimes periodic and often severe pain is an earlv and ])rominent symptom; whereas, in senile uterine catarrh, the pain is irregular and colicky, or, if not, it is sliglit and constant. Secondly, in cancer, fmtid discharge, at least in the eai lier stages, is nnnsnal, liecanse the os is closed, and the surface of the cancer is jirotected from external intinences ; wliereas iu catarrli, especially in the first two forms I have mentioned, fcetid discharge is a prominent and early sym])toni. Thirdly, local examination in cancer finds the uterus distinctly enlarged, sensitive, and early becomes heavy and fixed ; whereas, in the simjder condition, the uterus either is normal or only slightly enlarged, and remains freely movable throughout. And, lastly, dilatation and local exjdoration reveal the ])i'esence of a neojilasm in the one case and the absence of all irregularities in the other. It is needless to insist on the absolute necessity in every case, where ]iossible, of cai'eful microscopic examination. As regards the causes of this senile condition of the uterine mucous membrane, it is difficult to speak with certainty. 1. As a rule, when women have not sullered durino- their menstrual life from any disorder of the pelvic, organs, one inay a.fHrni that after the nieno])ause they will be free from uterine disease, since the organs undergo physiological atrojihy. But if the ])atient has been the subj'ect of a fibroid tumour, or has sui'iered from displacement of the uterus, or from any form of145 SENILE UTERINE CATARRH. iiillainmatioii, the uterus may continue large after the meno- pause, and may he the subject of post-climacteric inflammation, though this is always less marked than when menstrual con- gestion regularly recurs to aggravate the condition. Yet undoubtedly there are many cases in which senile catarrh occurs in which tliere is no history of ante-climacteric dis- turbance, and in which the uterus is normally poised, and gives no evidence of surrounding inflammation. 2. Tilt pointed out that very often the cervix slirinks, whereas the body of the uterus is inflamed, and the fluid becomes pent up, giving the colicky uterine pains. IMatthews Duncan had several times to puncture the cervix, so as to allow the escape of inflammatory fluid. The cases Tilt knew best were those of senile inflammation of the cervix and of the vagina—not so much of the body ; and for these post-climacteric inflammations he strongly recommended caustics. I should like strongly to insist that this condition of senile uterine catarrh is not prodromatic of malignant disease; the two are quite distinct, and I have never seen a case of tlie simple condition later become one of cancer. As regards the treatment adopted, when the condition is non-maliguant or doubtful, I have had the best results from rest, hot douching, and the internal administration of arsenic, strophanthus, and Chian turpentine. To give the last-named drug may seem contradictory, as it was long supposed to have beneficial effects in cases of cancer. This I do not believe, but it is quite certain that it has a good effect on inflammatory conditions; and, it seems to me, has almost an equally good effect in clearing up purely uterine inflammation, as in cervical inflammatory hypertrophy. Nothing gives better results than either the application of escharotics by means of dressed sounds, or, still better, the curettage of the mucous membrane, with subsequent packing and draining.146 CLINICAL PAPERS. The main point I wish to insist upon in this paper is the fact that tliese cases are so often mistaken for malignant con- ditions ; and I have repeatedly had patients, supposed to be siitfering from malignant disease, sent to me for hysterectomy, who were sutferers from the simpler condition, which responded to simple treatment.Psychoses following Pelvi-Abdomiiial Operations. There is no novelty whatever in discussing the question of mental disturbances succeeding operations of all kinds. There is scarcely any form of operation which, in persons so predisposed, may not lead to a total upset in the nervous system, and bring on physical changes more or less marked. Such aberrations occur after operations in general surgery, even after such a minor accident as a simple fracture. After the administration of anaesthetics, delirious mania has followed, and in some cases weak-mindedness has lasted for a very variable period. Abdominal and pelvic surgery is no exception, of which the cases to which I am about to refer are sufficient indication. The normal functions of the ovaries and uterus are themselves not unassociated with mental ab- errations ; alterations in the temper, for instance, or actual hallucinations, disordered appetites of all kinds, are accom- paniments both of menstruation and pregnancy. The same is the case with the menopause. That of course is a natural ]»rocess, and yet is only too frequently associated with all sorts of forms of nervous and mental disturbance. Perhaps of the three conditions—menstruation, pregnancy, and the nieno- })ause—the menopause is more frequently associated with curious mental phenomena than any other period of a woman’s life. Such aberrations are associated with the normal utero- ovarian conditions. Every one is acquainted with the frequency of insanity occurring after ordinary labour, of which the asylum records bear ample testimony; but it must be admitted that puerperal insanity generally occurs in those in which the patient’sCLINICAL PAPERS. 148 record has not been a clean one, where there has been insanity or mental weakness, either in the case of the patient herself previously, or in her parents, or in the collateral branches of the family. Of course I am not concerned with the question as to the advisability or propriety of operating upon mentally diseased women, or women with neurotic inheritance. Tlie prognosis in such cases is serious. The tendency to rouse up morbid mental tendencies in such people by operations is, of course, very serious, and therefore in such women operations of convenience, which are not necessary for the prolongation of life, ought to be undertaken very guardedly indeed. Before going further, let me give an illustration of a case of mental disturbance associated with menstruation in an otherwise healthy woman, with a good history, unassociated with any operative interference whatever :— Case 1.—The patient was a young unmarried girl, iet. 26, and the complaint was, that she had for long exhibited symptoms of violent dislike to her relatives, especially her brothers and sisters, during the five days that her catamenia lasted. She was morose during the whole period, declined to speak to any member of the family, and was violently insult- ing when spoken to; but the day after her catamenia ceased she was bright, cheerful, and well, and willing to enjoy all the pleasures of life. This had lasted for ten years. She lias been on more than one occasion examined carefully, under chloroform, and no morbid condition whatever could be found in the uterus and annexa. She had no dysmenorrhoea. Her sisters are all healthy and well, and there is, so far as could lie ascertained, no history of any insanity in the family. Tliis case seems to be one in which tliere must be some peculiar idiosyncrasy in the patient, wliicli is associated with nothing apparently alinormal in the pelvis, witli no displacement, neo- plasm, or lesion in either the uterus or its appendages. Ihit the interesting point of the case is, that she married two yearsPELVI-ABDOMINAL OPERATIONS. 149 ago, and shortly after marriage she Ijecame pregnant, and was delivered at full time; but during the whole period of her pregnancy she had exhibited symptoms similar to those she showed during menstruation, but shortly after delivery she became perfectly well, and has remained well since, though menstruating regularly. It is unnecessary here to refer to mental conditions during normal pregnancy; they are very well known and recognised, and one would pass from these, which might well be called “ normal neuroses,” to those which are associated with pelvic or abdominal operations. The following case is interestino;, inasmuch as one cannot imagine any class of case that is so disappointing to an operator as this, in which the whole advantage and benefit of the operation is destroyed and misunderstood, on account of this mental distress :— Case 2.—A young woman, a widow, set. 32, was admitted into a nursing-home—under my charge—suffering from villous endometritis, with profuse hsemorrhage, not only at her menstrual periods, but intermenstrually as well. On examination, the uterus was found much enlaro;ed and easilv hiemorrhagic. The obvious treatment was to perform curet- tage. This was accordingly done, and the patient made an excellent recovery. Some weeks afterwards she took an inordinate dislike to her own child, threatened to murder it, and she is now an inmate of an asylum. Here again is a distinctly disappointing result. In this case the diagnosis was obvious, and the cure absolutely com- jfiete, and yet the case ended more disastrously than if the patient had died of acute sepsis. Such a case impresses one with the importance of regarding, in their estimate of the danger of an operation, the fact that it may be followed by mental changes as serious as the one just re- ferred to.CLINICAL PAPERS. 15° The following is another case of mental trouble consecjiient upon a minor gynaecological operation :— Case 3.—The patient in this instance, a young lady, iet. 25, was brought to me reduced to a state of extreme ana'inia, suttering from constant and profuse uterine haemorrhage, dependent upon the presence of a uterine polypus. This is not the place to discuss the nature of the operation necessary, l)ut it will be allowed that tlie removal of a tumour such as this, about the size of a hen’s egg, involves no very great shock to tlie system. Such operations are performed every day, and are, so far as either immediate or remote results are concerned, entirely satisfactory. Of course the haemorrhage ceases at once, and the only possible risk is septic absorption, and this can be easily prevented. This hidy made an extremely good recovery, and left the Home perfectly well. Tliere has been no return of the lueniorrhage since. Unfortunately, two months after the operation, slie harboured the delusion that she had been delivered of a child, and that she haul become, as a result, an outcast, and she is now the inmaite of an asvlum. This is a result which no one can discount, and cases such as this, where the patient was reduced to a state of profound anaemia, and where tlie physical cure was an absoluteh’ com- plete one, aire, it must be admitted, a disappointment. So far as one could discover, this girl had no family history of in- sainity whatever, either in her immediaite family or among her relatives, and this is tlie point one would emphasise. It may be readily understood how the extraction of a tooth or the administraition of chloroform would upset the nervous system of a person pronouncedly so predisposed, but this is a case where there was no tendency to insanity in the family what- ever. I repeat, that this fact seems to be a very serious addition to one’s views as to tlie prognosis of any case. As has just been said, all are prepared to discount accidents in insane families, but one has no right to discount—one is not expected to discount—such accidents as these in womenPELVI-ABDOMINAL OPERATIONS. 151 who have a perfectly clean mental history. It might be possible to account for this case by the fact that the girl was reduced to profound anicmia. She was exsanguine in the ex- treme, and therefore it is possible that an operation under such circumstances might have produced a comparatively great shock; but then the symptoms did not come on for at least two months after the operation was performed, and by tliat time the patient had become physically stronger in every way. At the same time, when one regards the curious mental and physical phenomena that are from time to time seen in con- ditions—perfectly normal conditions—such as menstruation, pregnancy, lactation, and menopause, it is not a matter for very great surprise that when, in addition, operative interfer- ence is had recourse to, the effect on the nervous system should be pronounced, as in the case just recorded. It might be supposed that the insanity occurring two months after the operation was neither in consecj[uence of it nor related to it, but the nature of her delusion is a sufficient answer to this objection. The influence which the ovaries and uterus exert over the mind has long been discussed in the abstract, and on that account one is all the more anxious to record concrete examples illustrative of these conditions, in order that others may be prepared for them as they occur. It is not for me to incpiire into why this takes place, nor to go into any erudite examination of the relation between mind and matter, it is enough to point out that such accidents are possible, and at the same time, unfortunately, utterly and absolutely uupreventible. Before leaving the sul.)ject of minor gynaecology, one other case might be fpioted :— Case 4.—The patient, a young woman of an exceedingly healthy family, suffered from intense spasmodic dysmenor- rhoea, which had resisted all the ordinary drugs, and whichCLINICAL PAPERS. 152 was so severe as to withdraw the girl from active duties every mouth. On one occasiou her suiferiiig was so severe that slie had to have chloroform administered. After due consultation with her friends, the cervix was dilated, and for the two suc- ceeding months she was quite free from her dysmenorrhoea; but at the third month it returned, and she l)ecanie violently maniacal, and lier mental equilibrium has been very much upset ever since, so much so that her marriage has had to l)e abandoned. It is unnecessary to multiply cases of mental changes following minor operations, but one could mention otliers, though fortunately less pronounced and attended witli happier results than those just cited. Though I have not myself seen any cases of insanity after perineal repair, yet Kelly records six cases of insanity after perineal operations, and one of these died in acute mania. When one comes to pass from minor to major operations, of course the field is wider, and in tlie following example it will be found that mental and fatal conditions are by no means unassociated witli the major operations in gymecology. The case is as follows:— Case 5.—Tlie patient was a married woman, apparently in robust health, witli a simple ovarian tumour. There were no adhesions and no difficulty whatever in the operation, which lasted ten minutes. It went off without a hitcli of any description, and the prognosis was tlierefore perfectly favour- able. To sliow how careful one ouQ-ht to be, I niio-ht mention that, after the operation was over, the liusband asked if there was any necessity for him to remain in Edinburgh. Tlie answer was in the negative ; he was told that his wife was perfectly well, and there was no likelihood of any hitch occurring, and he left for a distant part of the country. The following day the patient liecame acutely maniacal, had to be held down in bed, and died of exhaustion in four days.153 PEL VI-APE OMINAL OPE PA TIONS. Of course it will probably be said that this was the mania or delirium of sepsis, Imt, as a matter of fact, the autopsy showed not a trace of sepsis anywhere. The patient liad no family history of insanity, and was apparently in excellent health. Here, again, one does not wish to enter upon any aljstruse investigation as to how this calamity occurred, but the fact remains that the patient died in acute mania four days after the simplest possible operation, lieference might liere Ije made to the excellent paper by Kelly on this subject, in which lie records eiu’ht cases out of something over 2000 abdominal sections. The record from whicli these cases are taken shows five cases of insanity in over a thousand sections. Of Kelly’s eight cases five recovered completely, two remained insane, and one committed suicide. ]\Iy record obviously is not so satisfactory. The case just referred to is one of acute mania, following a simple operation. Take another case:— Case G.—-The patient liad a rather troublesome ovariotomy performed. There were numerous adhesions; but the case, though somewhat tedious, was nothing unusual. She made an excellent recovery, and remained absolutely well for five davs. On the morning of the seventh dav, wlien the stitches were removed, the wound had completely healed except for one small suppurating stitch-hole. The same evening she became excited. The next day she was still more so, and a day later she became acutely maniacal, and remained so for a week, when she had to be removed from tbe home. She died shortly afterwards. Case 7.—I’erhaps one of the most painful cases was that of a ]iatient upon wliom I performed hysterectomy for a large rapidly growing fil)roid. It is unnecessary to mention the operative details ; suffice it to say that the stump was treated intraperitoneally, and dropped back into the abdomen. The154 CLINICAL PAPERS. tumour was a large oue, involving a wound nearly from the ensiform cartilage to the pubis. Afterwards she was ap])arently well, without any notable rise of pulse or tempera- ture. On the night of tlie seventh day, after the stitches had been removed, while the nurse had left the patient just for a minute, the patient jumped out of bed, tore oh' the dressing, and before she could be brought back to bed the strapping had given way. This allowed tlie wound to reopen at its lower margin, and a small portion of the gut escaped. I saw her very shortly afterwards, and found her in a state of violent e.vcitenient. It was with difficulty that she was anaesthetised. I was fortunately able to deal with the temporary hernia, and she recovered from the operation, but only to become an inmate of an asylum, where she still is. These cases all illustrate mental disturbances occurring immediately after an operation. Case 8.—The next one is a case of melancholia, which supervened six months after the performance of a simple ovariotomy. The case was a perfectly easy one, without any complications. The patient made an excellent recovery, but six months afterwards began to show syni])toms of dislike to her friends, along with evidences of suspicion and melancholy, and she is now, and has been for some time, confined in an asylum. The interesting feature of all tliese cases is, that all those mental disturbances occurred after operations which were un- complicated and simple, and in cases where the operation itcr sc was entirely successful; and, further, that all occurred in women who, so far as could be traced, had no hereditary tendency wliatever in that direction. There is little reason to doubt that sejTic infection lias a great deal to do in the production of insanity after operations. Of course, in looking for causes that lead to these mental disturbances after operation, tlie field is very wide.PELVI-ABDOMINAL OPERATIONS. 155 Undoubtedly the first factor is the hereditary one ; the second possibility is sepsis; and from these two, which are probably the main causes of post-operative insanity, one can look to a large group occurring, under loss of blood, defective action of the kidneys, and so fortli. Again, one must remember that in removing tlie ovaries for disease (or from otlier cause), one induces the climacteric, and of course, in so doing, one places tlie woman in all the possible risks of climacteric trouble. It seems probable that the essential prerequisite for the development of post-operative insanity must be, in all cases, a neurotic organisation, jiredis- posed, from either hereditary taint or acquired nervous weak- ness (and instability), to take on diseased (or perverted) action, in consequence of any active disturbing influence. Naturally, all are unwilling to admit that sepsis is the cause of death in operations, for now we know that a septic death means careless surgery, and therefore some are apt to attribute deaths and misfortunes to other causes than the real one. For example, death is said to be due to shock, defective kidney action, ha?niorrhage, exhaustion from suffering, tlie depressing effect of amesthetics, vomiting—to anything rather than to actual sepsis. Still, in the cases here referred to, with the exception of the hysterectomy, the possibilities of sepsis were out of the question altogether, at least of any sepsis that showed itself by any other way than by the insanity. Alienists tell us that there does not exist a psychosis which may be called post-operative insanity. With the exception of certain operations on the head, thyroidectomy, etc., there are no operative procedures wliich can be said to be solely productive of mental troubles, and tbe main role in the production of post-operative disturbances is played by a pre- disposition acquired or hereditary. I think the remarkable thing, however, is that it has not been shown that insanity is more common after operations on the genital organs than after operations on any other organs.CLINICAL PAPERS. 156 "When one recognises the frequency with which mental troubles are apparently associated with the normal occurrence of changes—such as puberty, menstruation, pregnancy, and the menopause—it may be considered almost remarkable that women escape from these disorders as easily as they do. One does not wish here and now to enter upon the great subject of operations undertaken in insane women, with a view to eifecting a cure of the mental disease, Ijy operative treat- ment of the genital organs. That is a field in which there is a good deal to be said, but it seems to me that under no circum- stances ought any insane woman to be operated upon, unless for some distinct condition which is compromising life. The cases in which the ovaries have Ijeen removed, and other operations performed, with a view to intiuencing insane or hysterical conditions, are many, and I fear tlie results are exceedingly discouraging. One’s own experience of hystero- epilepsy is coni|)aratively limited. I liave operated on only one case where the symptoms were extremely marked, and after the removal of the ovaries the catamenia ceased, and the hystero-epileptic symptoms disappeared ; but after some years the patient was lost sight of, and therefore I cannot tell whether or not the cure was al)solutely complete. It is quite certain that after any degenerative processes have occurred in the brain cells, it is absolutely useless to look for any mental cure by any form of operation on the genital organs. The relation of gymecology to psychiatry has been mucli discussed in late years, and I think the general consensus of opinion, gathered from alienists and neurologists alike, is that, while it has a place amongst tlie insane, just as among tlie sane, for the relief of pliysical distress, yet as a great curative method in tlie treatment of insanity it plays a comparatively small and unimportant ]iart.Two Cases of Mistaken Sex in Adult Life. Neugebauer, iu a recent paperrecounts fifty cases in which a marriage took place between two persons who after- wards were fonnd to be of the same sex. The article is meant to show the importance of making early discovery of such cases, in order to save the miserable consequences, unhappiness, divorce suits, even suicides, which may follow if they are not recognised and are allowed to proceed in error; and to demonstrate the responsibility which is incurred by a doctor when giving a definite opinion in cases of douhtful sex. That it is hy no means easy in all cases, especially before puberty, to determine the sex, is certain; but many of such cases are never brought to the doctor at all. In the ffreat majority of cases, a male is mistaken for a female, which naturally leads to greater difficulty in the matter of examina- tion. Of the fifty cases recorded in the paper to which I have alluded, forty-six were cases in which a man was married by mistake for a woman; only three were cases in which a woman was married as a man. In the remaining case it was said that one of the patients was hermaphrodite. Foreign medical literature abounds in copious records of cases of this sort, but, so far as I know, few cases are met with, or at least are recorded, in this country, and a record of two cases of mistaken sex occurring in members of the same family, and which is perfectly authentic, cannot be without interest and value. Two supposed girls, £et. respectively 19 and 21, were brought to me hy their mother with simply the history ^ Ecv. de gyiiec. et de chir. abd., Paris.158 CLINICAL PAPERS. tliat they were both quite well, but tliat they had never menstruated. One was at once struck with the appearance of tlie patients. The features were distinctly of the masculine type ; the elder had a budding moustache, and tlieir figures lacked the rounded contour of the female form. They were dressed in fashionable female costume, and when they spoke the voice was loud and harsh. The years which they had reached fully justified a suspicion of some alDnormality, and therefore I suggested an examination, under chloroform, which was agreed to. On examination, both presented the same peculiarities. The hair of the head was unduly short for girls ; the mamnnv and nii)ples were small and undeveloped, so that the chest wall was flat and entirely masculine. In the case of the elder, the skin over the sternum was slightly iiirsute. On examining the abdomen, one noticed that the pul)is was well covered with hair, and that this extended upwards towards the umbilicus ; but it was on examining the external genitals that the most remarkable features were found. Each had a representative of the penis, about 1 in. long, and at the base of this, on the lower surface, the meatus urinarius was dis- covered. The penis was covered Ijy skin, and on retraction of this a small glans was observed, but there was no evidence of a urethra in the organ. Behind this, which appeared to lie simply a hypertrophied clitoris, there were two apparently somewhat large labia majora; but, on separating these, no vaginal orifice could be found, and on a more thoroimh examination it was made out that each labium contained what was evidently a small testicle. The labia were therefore simply an incomplete scrotum, it having a marked cleft between the two sides, and the raphe being completely liidden unless the “ labia ” were separated. An examination was made per rectum; no trace of a uterus or appendages could be detected, but the prostate gland, fully developed, was easily felt.CASjES of mistaken sex in adult life. 159 The patients were indeed cases of hypospadias, with nialformation of tlie penis and the scrotnni, and the fact was l3i'onght home to me that I was dealing with two men, and not with two women, as was supposed when, an hour before, they came under my care. One is inclined to regard all sncli cases as these in the light merely of curiosities, and it is as curiosities that most of them are recorded. To the teratologist, now that teratology is being recognised as a science by itself, they are nn- donbtedly of great interest and importance ; but one also learns by experience that in the field of practical medicine they raise difficnlties and produce complications of no small magnitude. Neugebauer speaks of the grave responsibility whicli rests with one who fails to recognise the seriousness of mistakes made in determining the sex of a child at birth. He alludes to two melancholy cases of suicide which arose from such mistakes. One of the cases which he cites is that of a woman of 50, who had been married at the age of 21, and divorced from her husband ten years later. The husband’s plea was not only that he could not consummate his marriage, but that his wife made him a source of ridicule to his acquaintances because of her conduct towards other women. It was dis- covered at last that this supposed woman was in reality a man, the subject of hypospadias; and thereupon slie claimed from her brother a share of the patrimony. Against this claim the l)rother entered a counter-plea against the newly discovered brother, of seduction of his wife. Surely a suf- ficiently complicated and involved question ! Dailliez records a remarkable case, in which proceedings on the part of a husband for procuring a divorce were carried on during twenty-two years, before it was finally decided that the supposed wife was not a female at all. Three medical experts first examined the supposed woman, and declared her positively to be a female, while two other doctors assertedCLINICAL PAPERS. 16o that she was a male. A new plea was instituted* some years later by the husband, and another examination was ordered by the Court. This time a woman was entrusted witli the examination, and she declared that the subject was neither a woman nor a man. The matter was then referred to the ecclesiastical tribunal at lionie, and a consultation between a lawyer and a theologian resulted in the decision that the marriage had better be annulled. Even this judgment was ap})ealed from, and it was only in 1888, twenty-two years after the question had been first opened, that it was finally decided that the woman really was a man, witli i)eno-scrotal hypospadias. A midwife was accused, and found guilty, of having coitus with a young woman, 19 years old, who became pregnant thereafter. Her plea was that she had adopted that procedure in order to right a displacement of the uterus, of which her patient was the subject. On examination, she was found to be a male pseudcvhermaphrodite. The recorded cases in which females have been mistaken for males are much fewer in number but sufficiently apjialling in their consequences. The history of Anne Grandjean, fully recorded by Arnaud, and quoted by Neugel)auer, is very sad. She was born in 1732, and was brought up as a girl, till, at the age of 14, on the advice of a father confessor, she was recognised as a boy, and called Jean Baptiste. At the age of 32 she married a woman. The marriage was sterile. The wife was distressed at the imputations which the sterility of the marriage cast upon herself. Some one who had known lier husband in childhood told her he was a hermaphrodite, and, on the advice of another confessor, she caused inquiry to be instituted, with the result that Jean Baptiste was con- demned to the most painful and degrading punishments that could be devised for a human being. Although it is difficult to imagine how, in a properly cared for child, such a mistake could arise, with the organs soCASES OF MISTAKEIV SEX IN AD UL T LIFE. 16 x obvious as they were in this case, yet in iny particular cases, as they as children were brought up abroad, in charge of coloured nurses, the cause of the error in sex is more easily accounted for. In my own cases, recorded above, there were, as may be imagined, extremely difficult complications to be adjusted. It was discovered, upon inquiry, that the relations of my patients towards their girl friends had been peculiar. They much preferred the society of girls to that of men, and one con- fessed to feelings of sexual excitement when sleeping with female cousins. Legal complications were not easily arranged. IMany formalities had to be gone through ; questions with regard to their father’s will had to be adjusted, and new names had to be given to the young men, who donned men’s attire, left this country, and are now pursuing useful avocations in the Far East.Elephantiasis Arabum. Though elepliaiitiasis arabum is a well-recognised patho- logical condition, yet its occurrence in tliis country is rare, and the recorded cases are correspondingly few ; and inuc]i more so is this the case wliere the seat of the alTection is in the female genitals, so that a report of tlie following case is of interest. True elephantiasis affecting the vulva is rarer tlian at first appears on examining the literature of the suljject, since many cases liave l)een recorded as such, which on examination prove to be not really elephantiasis, but simply conditions of exaggerated lipoma or fibroma, or even some tertiary syphilide which bore a close resemblance in external appearance ; and in some others, while the patho- logical description seems to correspond to the recognised appearance of elephantiasis, there is associated with the growth of the tumour a history of previous or concomitant venereal disease. Elephantiasis arabum vulvas is a disease described as occurring not infrequently both in India and Barbados ; but that it is not confined to any particular locality is sulficieutly attested liy the records of occasional cases in French, German, and other European literature. The case now recorded was that of a married woman, let. 32, who had borne three children, the youngest of whom is 6 years old. Apart from physiological amenorrhcea, her menstruation had always lieen regular. At the age of 13 she suffered from tuberculous destruction of the elands of the neck, the evidence of which is manifested by the presence of very numerous cicatrices in that region. With the163 ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. exception of this ailment, slie had enjoyed good health np till al)ont hve years ago, when the o’lands in the O gT(hn of the right side suppurated and broke down, healing slowly and leaving' the O usual scars. Twelve months thereafter she first noticed the commencement of the swelling in the right lahinni, and this has continued to increase. About two years ago the left lalnum com- menced to hy- pertrophy, and this was also pre- ceded by the destruction of several of the glands on the corre sponding side. This en- largement of tlie left lal.)iuni has not,however,pro- gressed to any extent. The timionr of the right side is well represented164 CLINICAL PAPERS. ill the accoiiii)aiiyiDg tigure (Fig. 12), which was taken when the patient was completely amcsthetised. Towards the inoiis veneris, and over its most dependent part, the tumour is lull'd and nodular or 'paiyillomatous; but at the side where it is in contact witli tlie thiglis it is soft and smooth, or glahrous, to adopt the usual nomenclature. To indicate its dimensions more exactly than can be shown in any diagram, the measurements were found to be— antero-posterior diameter, 12 in.; lateral, G in.; and vertical, G in. The base of the attacliment, althoiigli being a long one, is somewhat narrower than tlie dependent part of the tumour, so that it is fairly movable, and might be described .as faintly pedunculated. At times the patient suttered great pain in the affected ]>art, and on other occasions it became inhamed and erysipelatous, she herself describing this as “ the rose.” ^ After elevating the tumour so as to cause as complete depletion as possible, the mass was removed by a single sweep of a large amputating knife, and thereafter the in- dividual vessels w^ere dealt with seriatim, the luemorrliage being inconsiderable. As the disease, however, had spread up over the iiioiis veneris, a large quantity of redundant tissue had to be removed by dissection, which added very considerably to the extent of the wound and tlie difficulty of the operation. Idle edges were then drawn together and sutured, and as there was a copious discharge from the gelatinous-like tissue, a drainage tube was introduced at the most dependent part of the wound. This was removed at the end of two days, and the patient has made a good recovery. As to its patliology, the great bulk of tlie tumour appeared to consist of a gelatinous mass diffused over the ^ It is of interest to note in tins connection that in some of those islands where elepliantiasis is not nneonnnon, the disease itself receives the name of “ the rose” from the al)origines.ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. 165 area of swelling, and enveloped in a layer of skin and epidermis, which had not, to all appearance, undergone much change. This tissue, on examination, was found to consist of a hyperplasia of the cellular elements of the connective tissue and lymph spaces between, enormously dilated, from which a watery fluid flowed on slightest exijression, and had originally consisted of the deeper layer of the dermis and the subcutaneous connective tissue. No great thickening of the epidermis was noticealde on microscopic examination, but the papilhe were larger than normal and occurred at much wider intervals, whilst in some parts of the substance of the epidermis there were present dilated lympli spaces. Nerve bulbs were awanting in the parts examined. Those portions previously described as being hard and papillomatous consisted for the most part of dense fil)rous tissue covered by a liypertrophied epidermal coating. Cornil and Ifanvier consider elephantiasis of the vulva histologically, under three principal forms:— 1. AVhere the entire derma is hypertrophied and assumes embryonic characters, in the midst of which are greatly dilated lymph spaces. 2. That which succeeds repeated oedema and affects wide areas, when there is general stagnation of the lymph system. In this variety, especially, there occurs often a fibrous alteration in the ganglia. 3. Enormous increase in the derma, with proliferation of all its elements, and dilatation with lymph of the intervening spaces. Whether associated with tlie Filaria sanrjuinis, or having its origin from any other cause, in all varieties the constant lesion is a dilatation of the lymph channels, and without doubt this occurred in the case now reported, and prol)ably had its initial causation in the destruction of the lymphatic glands and tiie consequent obstruction of the lymph stream accompanied l)y stagnation and accumulation of lymph.A Criticism of Some of the Lesser Gynecological Manipulations. (lyiuucology has perliaps, more than any other l)ranch of medicine, sulTered from the Jiimia diligcntia of its exponents. J>()th in minor and major gyiiiccology examples of this are to be found, and in selecting some of tlie minor manipulations for criticism, it is not to l.)e supposed tiiat I do not quite a})preciate liow far so-called major gyniecology has been overdone. Abdominal surgery, both in the removal of the appendages for varying conditions, not less than hysterectomy and allied operations, in the light of increased knowledge and experience, require careful reconsideration. Many times the abdomen has been opened when it had much better been left closed. That there are many and obvious errors in abdominal surgery, notwithstanding its exceptionally brilliant results, no one admits more readily than I do, yet the range of abdominal surgery—I mean, of course, in relation to gymecology—must always be comparatively limited, both as to patients and operators. But minor gymecology appeals to every practi- tioner, and to an enormously larger clientele. Again, minor gymecology, and all its various manij)ulations and operations, has so long been under the immediate observation of us all, that it seems to me reasonable on my part to make some ])ractical observations on the more common and, in many cases, routine operations of our art, the more so as I believe these interferences are j)ractised without sufficient care, and are in many cases the cause of permanent injury to patients. Three factors seem at work in modifying our opinions very considerably with regard to many of the minor gymeco-LESSER GYNAECOLOGICAL aUANL/NLATLONS. 167 logical operations and appliances which have been in constant nse. These three factors are—(1) the improvement in and education of practitioners in the simple manual examination of the pelvic organs; (2) an improved and revised patliology of the infra-vaginal portion of the cervix ; and (3) and perhaps specially, the increased knowledge which abdominal section has thrown upon the contents of the pelvis. It must always seem an ungenerous task on the jiart of any writer to discard the means hy wliicli he has arrived at a rational and accurate knowledge of his sul)ject, and yet it is nevertheless true that many of the procedures, manipulations, and operations which have Ijeen so persistently and regularly described in text-books, are, with increasing experience and increasing knowledge, deserving of a less })roniinent place than they have hitherto occupied. The three factors to whicli I have already alluded have seemed to me to play a most important ])art in this matter, and in what remains of this paper I shall endeavour to point out wherein those three factors have modified the operations which I now propose to discuss seriatim. The fact has been forced on me, that a large nnml)er of cases where abdominal operations have become imperative, have been distinctly trace- able to interference, more or less marked, with the uterus. Xow, for instance, take the speculitm. In my own practice I have not employed a speculum for diagnostic purposes for (piite a dozen years. I can see no good that it can accomplish, but a very considerable amount of harm may follow its nse. All conditions of the cervix that I know of can be diagnosed perfectly well with the fingers.^ Xow and then a badly situated vesico-vaginal fistula may require the aid of the speculum to see its point of exit; but this is rare and exceptional. The great bulk of gymecological cases can be ^ The ap2y<'arance of the cervix will not facilitate the diagnosis between simple and malignant condition. Often a speculum of some description is re- quired to remove a piece for inicrosco[)ic examination.CLINICAL PAPERS. i68 Jiagiiosed with absolute accuracy witliout the use of any speculum whatever. So far as my personal experience is concerned, I find that the speculum is used as a matter of routine, very often with a view to cover the inexperience of the practitioner. The speculum, 1 venture to believe, diagnos- tically, is a much over-rated appliance. In its place, careful bimanual examination ought to be steadily taught and per- sistently enforced. The speculum, used for diagnostic work only, gives l.)ut a superficial knowledge of the parts, and in many cases ol)Scures the organs wliich require to be most carefully observed, and endless cases are mismanaged through reliance Ijeing placed on the speculum and nothing else. It would he l,)etter were it discarded altogether from the teach- ing of practical gynaecology, and the student taught to avoid it and relv on his fincrers alone. Tlie information o;ained from it is only slight and practically useless. All really reliable information must he got from a careful digital ex- amination of the cervix, the appendages, and the foruices. A mere speculum examination is worthless, and cannot be too strongly condemned, and to act upon it with regard to opera- tion would be altogether wrong. Witli all due deference, I venture to say that the speculum is used for diagnostic purposes by imperfectly trained men, who press it into an importance which it does not by any means deserve. Visual examination of a patient is always to he avoided, if possible, and the exaggeration of a mere local manifestation into a serious disease is a matter which deserves the reproljation of the profession. Of course 1 wish it to he distinctly understood that I refer here and now entirely to tlie use of the s[»eculuni for diagnostic ])urposes. Its value in all forms of operations, of course, is well recognised. The uterine sound, which owes its l)irth and development to the school to which we belong, is an instrument which, both diagnostically and therapeutically, has ])layed and doesLESSER GYN-yECOLOGICAL MANIPULATIONS. 169 play a very important part in gymecology. Its diagnostic use, however, is now of less importance than formerly. Before the perfection of the combined method of examination, the employment of the sound was not only useful ])ut indispens- able, and from it most of tlie important advances in minor gyniecology have Ijeen made. Those of us who now mainly rely on the combined method of examination are indebted to the sound for valuable aid and much instruction, l)ut, to my mind, its use must now he more limited than the text-books would lead us to believe. In most cases it is unnecessary, and in a large number of cases it is dangerous; unnecessary, l)ecause the careful training wliich every one now undergoes in the conjoined exaniinaticm of the uterus renders the mechanical use of the sound a work of supererogation, for equally accurate results can be obtained wdthout it; and dangerous, for the varieties of manual examination—vaginal, rectal, abdominal—which are now so carefully taught and practised, if carried out gently, carefully, and patiently, give much more accurate results than the sound, and without any risks whatever. I am perfectly free to admit that I have seen rough Ijimanual examination accompanied l3y the most disastrous results, and become the origin of pelvic mischief; but what I say is this, that however carefully the sound is used, there is always an element of danger in it, whereas a carefully conducted manual examination means no risk at all, and, as a rule, entirely satisfactory results. The routine examination l)y the sound should l.)e deprecated, I Ijelieve, l^y teachers and not employed by practitioners. And if accidents with the use of the sound are occasional in the hands of the experienced gyntecologists, what, may I ask, are the number of casualties to ]>e credited to its regular use in the hands of the tyro ? Its occasional use, no one will deny, is of the greatest value, as in fibroids, and in fixing the lie of the uterus with regard to tumours, and so forth. In gyn[ecol(3gy, as in everything else, older methods mustCLINICAL PAPERS. 170 give way for advaiiceineiit in knowledge and in technique. To tlie sonnd as a replacer of dislocated uteri, as a means of making applications to the cervix and cavity of the nterns, and such like, no excejttion can be taken ; but to its regular \ise as a means of gymccological diagnosis, I must enter a caveat. I slionld pass far beyond my present intention were 1 to (piote cases illustrative of the risks of the sonnd. Ificmatocele of the ovary, persistent ovaritis, double salpingo- ovaritis, and such like, are within my own })ersonal experience, and several of these have been tlie subject idtiniately of abdominal operations. The old contra-indications for the nse of the sound—i.e. cancer, menstrnation, and acnte inllani- mation—stand as they ever did, but increasing knowledge has extended our information with regard to inflammatory and allied conditions of the appendages, which to a former generation were unrecognised and imregarded. I’ersonally, so far as my own clinical teacliing in the liospital is concerned, 1 have endeavoured to minimise the nse of the sound, and tried, at all costs, to inculcate light and careful examination of the pelvic organs by the hands. Its use in the.se days should be exceptional, not usual. The intra-uterine stem jjcssary seems to me to fall under entire reprobation. It may be from my own want of skill or care, or both ; but in my hands it has done infinitely more harm than ever it has done good. It does occa.sionallv occur that pregnancy has followed its n.se, that displacement or dysmenorrheea has been occasionally cured, and in the hands of one alive to its risks it may sometimes be used with safety ; but I only wish now to exqu-ess my opinion over a very considerable experience—that its use, whether in dysnieuor- rli(ca or displacement is, as a rule, to be deprecated, and in the hands of the inexperienced to be entirely barred. My personal knowledge sup])lies me with the records of women who have been permanently maimed, and to very few indeed who have benefited by their nse. Dysmenorrhoea andLESSER GYNAECOLOGICAL MANIPULATIONS. 171 aineiiorrlioea, and such like, for which such instruiiieiits were devised and employed, are in the main not due to uterine conditions at all, but to other patliological conditions, either partly or altogether beyond the uterus itself. This brings us naturally to the discussion of the question of dilatation of the cervix. This operation, whether accom- plished rapidly by the Sims, Ellinger, or Hegar dilator, or graduated bougies, is one which, if carefully carried out, seems to me to give the best results in dysmenorrhoea ; so long, he it clearly understood, as the dysmenorrhoea is purely and entirely uterine in its nature and origin, so long as the appendages are perfectly free and normal, and so long as there is no antenienstrual pain. In such cases the dilatation, of whatever nature, will give satisfactory results. But where there is the least reason to suppose that appendage troul.)le, however slight, exists, or that there is any antenienstrual })ain, then, not only will the dilatation give no good result at all, but the operator will unquestionably run the risk of setting up very serious mischief. I’erhaps the majority of cases of dysmenorrhoea are due to some morbid condition in the ovaries or tubes, or both. At the same time I am not slow to recognise that there are a number of cases that are purely uterine, and where these can be judiciously and accurately diagnosed, as I believe they can, then in them dilatation, carried out with care and with the necessary antiseptic precautions, gives, so far as my experience is concerned, excellent results. Indeed, I know of no other way by which uterine dysmenor- rhcea can, as a rule, be successfully treated, and therefore I recognise that this operation of dilatation is a useful and im- portant one ; but at the same time I am quite alive to the fact that it is both injudiciously and carelessly used, and without a due regard to the precautions to which I have just referred. In such cases nothing but disaster accompanies its use—disasters sucii as perimetritis, ovaritis, etc.; and it was quite recently that I was called upon to remove a large bloodCLINICAL PAPERS. I?2 tumour of the ovary, about the size of a large orange, which had resulted from the injudicious use of the dilator. I do not stay here to multiply examples, because such would be of no use, as all the disasters are, to my mind, entirely due to want of appreciation of the proper cause of the dysmenorrhcea, and the proper ditferentiation of that wliich depends upon ovarian and tubal conditions and that which is entirely uterine in its origin. There is no question that, among the minor gynaecological trouldes, dysmenorrhoea occupies a first place. There is difficulty iu its diagnosis and difficulty in its cure. j\Iany cases wliicli at first look simple, and seem due to some uterine condition, are nevertheless found complicated, on care- ful examination, with appendage trouble ; and many in which the appendages are diseased, and where the cause seems to lie in them alone, the dysmenorrlima is complicated by a uterine condition as well. For example, what is only recognised as a stenosed cervix, I have seen over and over ayjain treated bv the introduction of mechanical agents into the uterus, wliere a little careful inquiry into the history and symptoms of the case would have led tlie operator to look for and find some degree of appendage troul)le. Furthermore, every one who knows anything of gynajcology at all knows that the personal equation, if I may say so, is more marked in the uterus and appendages than in any other organ in the l)ody; and there- fore, even although we find no appendage trouble apprecial)le by the touch, it is desirable, before artificial dilatation be liad recourse to, that the sound should be passed once or twice in order to ascertain to wliat extent tlie uterus and its anuexa resent interference. Within the limits referred to, rapid dilatation of the cervix uteri, under an amestlietic, gives most satisfactory results in simple uterine dysmenorrhoea. It is simpler, safer, and more enduring than tents, and l)etween this operation and the use of intra-uterine stems there is no comparison, so far as safety is concerned. Wliile distinctlv recomusiim that in a number M O OLESSER GYNECOLOGICAL ALANLPULATLONS. 173 of cases where, from pre-existing disease, serious injury has been done to the patient, yet I do most distinctly mean to state that, in a case of dysmenorrhoea, where the bimanual examina- tion reveals no appendage trouble, where the repeated passing of the sound causes no after-effects, and where, therefore, the dysmenorrhoea is found to be in the uterus alone, dilatation, with careful antiseptic precautions, gives better results than any other procedure witli whicli I am acquainted. The ques- tion is, “ Is it permanent ? ” This must l.)e answered with some degree of qualification. In a few cases, specially those which seem to be of a purely spasmodic nature, and where the pain of the dysmenorrhoea is associated with the first few hours of menstruation, it is distinctly permanently curable ; but where the dysmenorrhoea extends into the first two days, or occurs at irregular intervals during the period, such dilatation often requires repetition. The same may be said of sterility; and here, in the treat- ment of this condition, and after having tried most of the recognised methods of dealing with this difficulty, I have by no means met with the success which many operators would lead us to expect. I can point to a case here and there where, after dilatation of the cervix, pregnancy has occurred ; but I can point to a much larger number of cases where all the treatment, whether by dilatation or by other means, has failed to remedy this distress. My own teaching with regard to sterility is, that unless one can find some definite and distinct removable lesion, all interference with the patient ought to be avoided. Nothing has surprised me so much in reading the papers and communications with regard to sterility, as to find the success which numbers of writers claim. My own experience in the treatment of sterility has been that my successes are rare and my failures frequent. Curetting the uterus is perhaps the most popular, as it certainly, in proper cases, is one of the most satisfactory of the minor gynaecological operations. After abortion, and in many174 CLINICAL PAPERS. of the varieties of eudoiiietritis, there is no proceeding more valuable. Yet in my own practice and in the practice of otliers I have seen very serious mischief result from its use. In no manipulation does the condition of appendages require to ])e more carefully e.xaniined before operation tlian in curetting. AVhere the ovaries or tubes are involved, the use of the curette must be delayed until they are relieved, and if tliat IS impracticable, some other less irritating method must l)e adopted. Let me state the following case as an example — Four years ago I saw a patient with a medical friend. Slie suffered from htemorrhagic endometritis succeeding: abortion. The question of curetting was of course discussed. But as lioth ovaries were tender, and some slight utero-sacral cellu- litis present, I gave a very strong opinion against curetting— urged, at all events, that no uterine operation should be un- dertaken till the appendage condition had been seen to. Aly friend thought otherwise, and curetted. A^iolent pelvic inflammation was set up. IMonths after, I opened a large pelvic aljscess. The patient subsequently died, having Ijeen bed- ridden for a year. Of course it will f>e urged that we can never be absolutely certain of the condition of tlie annexa ; probaljly not, ljut all I maintain is, that we recognise where the element of danger lies, and by patient examination reduce the risk to a minimum. The three following rules are worth attention :— 1. That the diagnosis of all pelvic and most pelvi- alxlominal conditions should be made slowly and gently with tlie unaided liands, and upon the examination tlius made the ])ractitioner should train himself to rely. 2. That no mechanical aids to sight or touch should be employed, except under exceptional circumstances. 3. Tliat as a large proportion of the risks and accidents attendant on minor gymccological operations are due to a want of appreciation, on the part of the physician, of theLESSER GYN.'ECOLOGICAL MANIPULATIONS. 17 U-i condition of the uterine appendages, no operation, how- ever trivial, should be undertaken until their state and relations have Ijeen ascertained witli as much accuracy as possible. 4. All examinations, to be thorougli and exhaustive, should be conducted under an anaesthetic.On the Etiology of Ahiginal Hsematoma occurring during Labour. Sanguineous tumours, thrombi and haematoma, of the vulva and vagina, whether occurring before, during, or after labour, are comparatively rare accidents. Under sucli a lie'ad- ing are included all collections of blood forming in the sub- mucous or connective tissue, and they may be found in the cervix, any part of the vagina, labia, or perimetric connective tissue. The condition receives more or less attention in every text-book, and the varieties, with their progress, terminations, and treatment, have been exhaustively discussed, in lengthened memoirs, by Deneux, Laborie, Cazeaux, Hervieux, Hugenberger, and Barnes, and have received shorter notice from many others. Into the question of the nature and management of these haemorrhages in general it is no part of my present purpose to enter. I wish, therefore, to eliminate, first, the blood extravasations which are limited to the cervix, and which in a minor form are familiar to most of us. In an aggravated and serious form they are at times associated with elongation and hypertrophy. This much I wish to point out, that they are the results of direct pressure and crashing. Second, those which form in the labia vulv.a?, and which are the result of unusual lu'essure apjdied to already distended and varicose vessels. ]\Iy remarks apply entirely to that form of hamiatoma which is vaginal, usually confined to the posterior wall, and is developed during and after labour. Three such cases have come under my observation, and I now give a brief record of each.177 ETIOLOGY OF VAGINAL HEMATOMA. Case 1 occurred in the bauds of one of niy dispensary pupils—Mrs. M., a multipara, in labour with her sixth child. When I saw her the membranes had ruptured for twelve hours, and the head had made no progress, though the pains had been strong. On examination, 1 found the liead at the brim, and movable; os fully dilated. The cause of delay was obvious. The woman’s lax abdominal walls had allowed the uterus to become anteverted, so much so that the fundus uteri was on a level lower than the cervix, and conserpiently the uterine action was quite unavailing so long as the direc- tion of the force was thus misdirected. 1 ordered the patient to have a tight abdominal bandage applied, and to have a full dose of ergot. Two hours afterwards the child was born. Xext day I was asked by my pupil to see the woman, who complained of great bearing-down pains, and something pro- truding at her vulva. On examination, I found the perineum bulging, and a dark swelling protruding from the vagina. I found the whole vagina filled by a large pyriform mass, base downwards, stretching from the posterior fornix down to the perineum. She suffered much pain during the niglit, with strong expulsive efforts ; and when she was seen in the morning, a rupture had taken place at the lower end of the vagina, through which had escaped free venous blood and clots. There continued considerable oozing from the aperture for a fort- night, during which time careful antiseptic washing was employed; and at the end of three weeks the tumour had entirely disappeared. Case 2 occurred in the extern department of tlie Maternity Hospital. The patient was a multipara, in labour with her fourth child. As the patient had been in labour for ten hours, as the membranes had been ruptured for six, and as no progress was made, I was called to see the case and deliver with forceps. I found the pains very violent and strong; the headCLINICAL PAPERS. 178 presenting, 1)ut not engaged in tJie brim. The uterus was markedly auteverted, the patient being a big, heavy woman, witli a very pendulous belly. The uterine body was thrown well forwards, and somewhat Hexed. The delay was evidently caused l>y the misdirection of the uterine force. I placed the woman on her back, and had a binder applied. On introducing my hand some fifteen or twenty minutes later into the vao-ina, I felt a distinct bulgino: in the fundus vagina^ in the posterior fornix. The nature of this I did not at the time recognise. As the head was movable at the brim, and did not engage even after the })Osition of the uterus was rectified, I performed podalic version. 1 found a little diffi- culty in extracting the liead from the vagina. With the last pains the placenta and membranes were expelled cn masse. As violent expulsive efforts continued, and as she complained of great pain, and although there was no hfemorrhage Ijeyond normal, she looked somewhat collapsed, I made a vaginal examination, and found a large tumour ljulging the posterior vaginal wall. It extended in a conical shape, the l>ase being at the vulva and the apex at the cervix. Next morning, when I saw the patient, I found she had passed a restless night. There was pelvic pain, bearing-down expulsive efforts, and retention of urine. On examination, the vagina was so occluded that I could not reach the cervix. The conical nature of the tumour, its intimate connection with the mucous membrane, its firmness and tenderness, as well as the fact that it reached (piite down to and fudged the perineum, combined with a rectal exploration, decided me in coming to the con- clusion that it was a h;ematoma of the vagina. Test, quiet, and opium were enjoined. The next day she was free from ])ain. There was no rupture of any part of the tumour. In four or five weeks the patient was well, and no trace of the tumour remained. Case 3.—Through the kindness of Dr. Alex. Sinclair,179 ETIOLOGY OF VAGINAL HyEMATOMA. I saw with him a patieut whom lie had delivered two or three days previously with forceps. She was a multipara with her fifth child. Dr. Sinclair had useil forceps l3ecause the head was delayed high up, owing to some degree of anteversion of the uterus. The patient had borne her previous children normally. Dr. Sinclair told me that, wlien applying his for- ceps, he felt a swelling in the posterior fornix, and on that account experienced some ditficidty in applying the instru- ment. The swelling on the third day was so large as to fill up the whole vagina, and so closed the canal as to make it impossible to reach the cervix. The perineum was bulging, and at the junction of the perineal skin with the vaginal mucous membrane there was a rupture which had occurred the previous day, when Dr. Sinclair was examining the tumour. The aperture was sufiiciently large to admit two fingers, and in doincT so the finger came in contact with a meshwork of cellular tissue and clots. The nature of the tumour was clearly that of a htematoma. I need not stop to describe its further course, beyond saying that the cavity was washed out daily with an antiseptic lotion, the patient had no bad symptoms, and in a few weeks was quite well. The rarity of such cases may be gathered from the follow- ing statistics, namely, Hugenberger, St. Petersburg Hospital, met eleven in 14,000 labours; Deneux saw three in forty years ; Paul Dubois, one in 14,000 labours. In Yienna Hospital eighteen occurred in 33,241 deliveries. The records show that these extravasations are associated with very considerable danger. Deneux, out of his sixty collected cases, had a mortality of eleven. Probably it is owing to this fact, Deneux being the earliest writer on the subject, that the opinion has gained firm ground that this condition is an extremely dangerous one. Now, this is scarcely the fact, for out of fifty cases collected by Winckel, death occurred only six times ; and the three cases which I have just mentioned allCLINICAL PAPERS. I So recovered perfectly, and one had a normal labour subsequently. No doubt a good deal depends on their extent and situation, but so long as they are confined either to the vulva or vagina, reinain of moderate dimensions, and do not begin in or extend to the perimetric tissue, they seem to be less serious than was at one time supposed. ]\Iy present object is to point out what 1 believe to be the etiology of this form of vaginal Inematoma, or, at all events, one, of the causes. In wliatever respects the cases I have recorded may differ, they bad the following points in common—(1) The women were multipane ; (2) the labour was delayed ; (3) the cause of delay w^as misdirection of tlie uterine power from anteversio uteri or pendulous belly ; (4) at the occurrence of the bicmatoma the bead was still at the l)rim. First, then, there is the common feature of pendulous belly. This, of course, when not associated with narrow brim, as it sometimes is in primiparic, means ante version of the gravid uterus, from relaxation of the abdominal walls. This is a question of degree so slight that the contraction of the uterus may be sufficient to remedy the displacements, or to such a marked degree that the fundus uteri comes to lie on a level lower than the cervix. Nay more, cases have even l)een related where, owing to a split in the recti muscles, the gravid uterus has prolapsed tbrougb the aperture and reached almost to the knees, covered only by skin and fascia. In even moderate cases there is a certain amount of fiexion as well, the under part of anterior wall of the uterus being bent over the anterior wall of the pelvis, the symphysis pubis acting as a fixed ])oint. In this way tension is made to a very marked degree on the vaginal walls. Tins tension is produced by two factors—(1) the tilting forward of the uterus over the symphysis—this, of course, being in direct proportion to the amount of anteversion ; (2) by the uterine pains. They will, by drawing on the posterior vaginal wall, increase the tension already caused byETIOLOGY OF VAGINAL HEMATOMA. i8i the altered position of the uterus. It will be apparent, and it is a fact borne out by clinical oljservation, that the symphysis pubis acting as a fixed point, the greatest tension and stretcli- ing will be on the posterior vaginal wall. In an interesting and suggestive paper, read to the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society some years ago by Or. Hart, on rupture of the vagina, he drew attention to two facts bearing on the present subject—(1) that vaginal rupture is generally high up on the posterior vaginal wall; and (2) when it does occur, it is generally transverse. The posterior vaginal wall, especially at its u})per part, is, during pregnancy, very thin. This thinning is in- creased in a normal labour by the uterine action dragging up the cervix and vaginal walls; Imt in the cases I have just re- ferred to there is the very great additional stretching induced by the abnormal position of the uterus, and the long-continued ineffectual contraction of the uterine walls. The venous supply to the vaginal wall consists of a large plexus of veins, some submucous and some just outside the muscular coat, emptying themselves into the internal iliac. These veins, in common with the other veins in the pelvis, are valveless. In pregnancy, these veins, to a greater or less extent, become varicose, owing, no doubt, to the heavy uterus preventing the entrance of the venous blood to the vena cava. So uniformly is this varicosity present, that, under the name of Jacc{uemier’s test, it lias come to be recognised among the corroliorative signs of pregnancy. Often the venous tissues become so dis- tended with varicose enlargement that they become quite perceptible to the finger in the vagina, and can be felt projecting as well-marked cyst-like swellings. Further, it must be borne in mind that, in proportion to the amount of varicosity, so will the wall of the vessel be thin. Hervieux, Laborie, and others are not inclined to believe that varix enters much into the production of these vascular swellings. I’erret has collected a series of sanguineous tumours of the vagina, cervix, and vulva, and points out that they occur morei82 CLINICAL PAPERS. frecjiiently, by five times, in j)rimipai‘cTe than multiparie, and tliat they become proportionately rarer according to the nnmber of the pregnancy. Now, in this record I’erret mixed up all the varieties. One can easily understand how, under the enormous distending pressure on the cervix and vagina, caused by the advancing head, the mucous membrane, carried down by the liead, glides (jver the deeper tissues with a sort of tearing movement. The connecting submucous vessels are torn, blood is extra- vasated, and small ecchymoses or thrombi are formed. This will, to a greater or less extent, occur in every labour. But we must not be diverted from the point at issue. The cases I have recorded were all multi])ane, and luemorrliage took place while the head was still at tlie brim, and wliile no pressure was being made in the vagina. The mechanism of the pro- duction seems to me to be this.—The thin varicose veins on the posterior vaginal wall all undergo stretching along with that structure, by the uterine efforts; but, in tlie cases referred to, the tension is enormously increased by tlie ante verted position of the uterus; and, further, this tension is long maintained by the ineffectual attempts of the uterus to right itself. What occurs is this—During the labour one or more of the.se vessels give way under the strain, and rupture, but, owing to the tension, no lunmorrhage takes place. When, however, the case is recognised, and the uterine obliquity overcome, either by position or pressure, or lioth, the undue tension of the posterior vagina relaxed, the compression of the vessels removed, the luemorrliage slowly and gradually takes place into the con- nective tissue. In this way it comes about that the rupture of the vessels takes place during the labour, but that the luemorrliage actually occurs only after the displacement of the gravid uterus has been rectified. Into the prognosis, course, synqitoms, and risks of these varieties of tumours it would be altogether absurd in me to enter; they are well described in every text-book. i\Iy object is sinqily to draw attention to aETIOLOGY OF VAGINAL H.EMATOMA. 183 liitherto imdescribed cause of their production, and if I may draw a practical lesson, I would add this as one of the risks of labour complicated with a pendulous belly, and an additional reason for recognising and rectifying this form of dystocia early.The Causation of some Primitive Face Cases. It is seldom in private practice that the plivsician has an opportunity of oljserving the pregnant woman for some weeks l)cfore delivery, and noting the changes which take place during the period immediately preceding parturition. Even in tlie i\Iaternity Hospital such observations are not very easily carried out, because the majority of women present themselves at our lying-in institution either actually in labour or when the process is just imminent. Yet changes in the presentation of the foetus are by no means uncommon—changes, for example, from the transverse to the cranial. In the position, however, especially from one cranial position to another, changes are not only not uncommon, Imt frequent. Now that external palpation has become more thorough, and is practised as routine by every ol)stetrician, along with the aid afforded by auscultation, these changes can be made out with great accuracy. In the case which I am desirous of bringing under observation, the clianges from one presentation to another, namely, from cranial to face, and vice TcrsCi, were frequent. It is, however, specially with the view of illustrat- ing one probable causation of a certain class of face cases that I offer the following remarks;— Face cases may be either primitive or secondary. Although this classification is not adopted by many authors, yet the arrangement is a convenient one, for it differentiates two sets of face cases occurring under two very different sets of circum- stances. It is necessary, therefore, clearly to define each variety. The ordinary or secondary set of face cases, which are de-CAUSATION OF PRIMITIVE FACE CASES. 185 scribed fully in every treatise on midwifery, and with which every obstetrician is familiar, may Ije defined as those where the face is found presenting during labour, and is lu'ought about as a result of it. Tlie causation of such face cases has been fully inquired into. Daventer, Baudelocque, Duncan, though differing considerably in detail, refer the cause to some fault in the powers of parturition, namely, uterine ol)liqnity. Hecker finds the cause in the l)ody passing, namely, in a lengthening of the posterior arm of the cranial lever in dolico- cephalic children; while, according to others, the bony passages are at fault, and the occiput hitching on the brim of a narrow pelvis is the cause. With this set of face cases the present communication is in no way concerned. The other set of face cases are those whicli are termed primitive or primary, namely, those cases in wliich the face presents during pregnancy, before the commencement of labour, when, therefore, the head is above tlie Ijrim, free from contact with the bony pelvis, and the mendu’anes unruptured. Such cases, however remarkable they may seem, and liowever difficult of explanation, are yet distinctly recognised by many, indeed by most authors. IMadame Lachapelle records two cases, where post-mortem examinations of women near full term showed the fmtus presenting by the face. The authors of the Dictioiinaire de mklecinc collected eighty-five cases, forty-nine of which were clearly made out and announced as such Ijefore rupture of the memijranes. Further, of these eighty-five cases, there were only three in which the uterus was in a state of well-marked oljli(piity, and only one where the amnionic fluid was in excess. From this evidence, as well as from other causes, which, however, he does not mention, Cazeaux conies to tlie conclusion that the majority are primitive, and due to causes altogether beyond our knowledge. Tyler Smith makes no special reference to tliis class of face cases, but refers the causation of all face cases to causes intrinsic or extrinsic to the foetus. Hodge objects to the division of facei86 CLINICAL PAPERS. eases into primitive and secondary as an imnecessary classifica- tion. He admits that full presentations of the face are often primitive, and attributes them to spontaneous movements of the child, the face getting so fixed by uterine contraction. Sir dames Simpson accounts for face cases and malpresentation generally—(1) by deatli of foetus; (2) premature labour; (3) the application of unusual excito-niotor stimuli to the foetus ami uterus ; (4) causes mechanically displacing foetus during pregnancy or conmiencenieut of labour—e.g. {a) excess of li(|Uor aiiniii; (h) sudden rupture of membranes. Schroder says: “ In primipane in whom, during pregnancy, already distinct uterine contractions have taken place, they may be produced during that period—-primary face cases.” It would seem that Schroder overlooks tlie fact that, in primiparie at term, the head is lower than in multi})ane, and that the causes at work in producing secondary cases will come into play here as well. Idayfair accounts for primitive cases as tlie result of the well-known labour pains which continue marked before labour sets in. Spiegelberg refers incidentally to primitive, and records the fact tliat lie lias seen a primitive face case caused by bulging of the thorax in hydrothorax. iMatthews lJuncan, in a paper read in Edinburgli in April 1870, on the production of presentations of the face, confines his attention entirely to the secondary or ordinary face cases. Iteferring to primary cases, lie says: “ As has been already hinted at, all cases of face presentation do not demand this kind of explanation. Instances are recorded, for example, where the extreme extension of the head existing in an ordinary face case during labour has been observed before labour commenced.” To this extraordinary kind of face presentation, and others allied to it. Dr. Duncan makes no reference whatever, confining himself entirely to the mechanism of the production of face presentation under ordinary circum- stances. The following is a good example of a primary face case.CAUSATION OF PRIMITIVE FACE CASES. 187 and at the same time affords an explanation of the cause of its occurrence:— Case 1.—Margaret Walker, tet. 30, a multiparous woman, pregnant of her third child, was admitted to the IMaternity Hospital on September 2G, 1879. On examination externally.—There is considerable right uterine obliquity. The globe of the head can be felt above the brim. With the fingers and thumb grasping the abdominal wall just above the pubes, the head can be felt high up above bony ring freely movable. Back of child is directed towards the right. Small foetal parts can be felt towards left side, near fundus. Greatest intensity of foetal heart on right side. Internal examination.—Cervix shortened; os externum gaping ; os internum easily admits forefinger ; membranes nn- ruptured; anterior fontanelle distinctly felt. Position, right occipito-posterior well extended. September 27.—The full face felt, nose, orbits, chin, left mento-anterior. September 28.—Full face felt as before; no uterine contractions are distinguishable. At the patient’s urgent request, she was allowed to go home for a day or two. She returned on October 12. External examination as on Septem- ber 2 G. Internal examination. Presentation, cranial position, a well-extended right occipito-posterior. The anterior fontan- elle is easily felt, but the apex of occipital bone can only be recognised with difficulty to the right, posteriorly and high up. October 13.—The presentation is a full face, high up, freely movable, not in contact with bony pelvis. Slight hardening of the uterus, under the hand externally, can occasionally be felt, but this does not in any way affect position. October 14.—lJuring visit, position right occipito-posterior. Vesper.—Full face presented, without any uterine con- traction being felt by patient or recognised l^y hand.CLINICAL PAPERS. i88 October 15 and 16.—Face as before. October 16, 10 p.m.—Still a face. October 17, 2 a.m.—Strong uterine contraction set in. On examination, the face was found presenting; after a short interval the position was altered to a right occipito-posterior. At 3 A.M. the posterior fontanelle came within easy range of the examining finger. The head threatened to re- main persistent right occipito-posterior, but when well down on the floor of the pelvis the forward rotation of the head took ^)lace. Tliere was a very moderate (quantity of liquor aninii. Duration of labour.—First stage, six hours ; second stage, one hour, hfty-seven minutes; third stage, thirteen minutes. Now, this was without doubt a primitive face case, and the question conies to lie. How is a presentation such as this of the full face at the brim during pregnancy to be accounted for ? I confess that I can hardly conceive of any presentation more difficult to explain. The natural attitude of the child, it is important to remark, is essentially one of flexion—every limb, every finger, the trunk in fact, every movable member, is flexed. In a primitive face case such as the one we are now considering, we have the normal flexion replaced by ex- tension to an extreme degree. Further, we have to consider the fact that the foetus was alive, moving freely in a fluid medium, uninfluenced either by labour or contact with the pelvis. The uterine contractions which go on through the later weeks of pregnancy, and which Schroder, Hodge, Playfair, and others allege are the cause of this class of face, does not account for this particular case. For, as I have shown in the alwve record, the effect of the first real uterine contraction was to con- vert the already existing face into a right occipito-posterior. Further, I showed, when making an examination some days before labour, and when the uterus could be felt hardeniiiir under the hand, the position remained unaltered. If the l)atient had Iteen, as Schroder suggests, a primipara, in whomCAUSATION OF PRIMITIVE FACE CASES. 189 the lower uterine segment is deep in the pelvis, and tlie head more or less ahected by the hard pelvis, in all probalnlity the uterine contractions preceding actual labour would have influenced the head; but this patient was a multipara. The right uteriue obliquity, by causing the back and occiput to gravitate to the riglit and posteriorly, had some influence in causing the right occipito-posterior position, but it is difflcult to see how any ordinary amount of obliquity would cause a full face to present at the brim, irrespective of labour, and while the head remained free of the pelvis. I do not here call in question the effect of obliipiity in producing a face case, after labour has actually set in, but I fail to see how it is applicable in the present case. It is needless to discuss the effects of the liquor ainnii, because neither hydramnios nor premature rupture of the memljraues were factors in the case, as neither condition existed. For the same reason such causes as premature labour, death of foetus, and the like, are inapplicable; and, indeed, Sir James Simpson and Dr. Fleetwood Churchill do not specially particularise them as applicable to primitive face cases, though they no doubt include such cases. Undoubtedly, wlien such conditions are present, the production of the presentation in question is more readily understood. The explanation of this case, at least, is to be found in the foetus itself. Both Sir Janies Simpson and Dr. Hodge refer in general terms to the movements of the foetus, Simpson speaking of the application of unusual excito-niotory stimuli, and Hodge of the spontaneous movements of the foetus. In this case the foetus was a well-developed female. There was no marked caput succedaneum. The measurements of the head were sufficiently near the average to require no particular notice. There was no enlargement of the thyroid gland, spina bifida, nor any sore or mark of any kind on the child. Tlie striking point about the child was tlie extreme extension of the head. The muscles of the back of the neck were190 CLINICAL PAPERS. strongly contracted, the occiput drawn backwards, and the chin well extended from the chest. Indeed, the face, wlien the child was held in the ordinary position, looked almost directly upwards. On inverting tlie child, the head main- tained the same degree of extension, the face looking directly downwards. During sleep and periods of entire quiescence, the extension, though less pronounced, was still well marked. Throughout the patient’s stay in hospital, a period of ten days, the child continued to carry its head in the same ex- tended p(^sition. On the eleventli and twelfth days post- partum, the extension was somewhat less decided, but a month after labour, when the child was last seen, the position of the liead was one of marked extension. The accompanying diagram—or ratlier portrait, for it is from life—shows the appearance of the child about twelve days Fig. 13. after birth. The other illustration is that of a child, also twelve days after labour, born after a natural labour, in a left occipito- anterior position. Both children were held in the same posi- tion, and the difference in the position of the respective heads is suthciently obvious. Any one who has paid any attention to the attitude of the new-born child must lie aware that when held on tlie knee, for example, with one liand supporting the liack, the position of the head is one of flexion. In the childCA USA TIOAT OF FFIMITIVE FA CE CASES. 191 in question, as the illustration shows, it was one of extension. This was clearly not the consequence of labour, because the result of labour was to convert the face into a right occipito- posterior, and so bring about flexion. Neither was tlie exten- sion the result of any influence after labour; nor was it, as I have endeavoured to show, the result of any contractions or deflection of the uterus before labour; therefore, the produc- tion of this primary face case depended on some cause intrinsic to the foetus itself. That cause was a tonic contraction of tlie muscles of the back of the neck, with an atonic condition of the depressor muscles of the chin. The frequent change from face to occipito-posterior, and vice versd, were owing entirely to foetal movements, the head lieing more flexed during peiiods of quiescence, and extended when the foetus was in motion It is more than probaljle that the bulk of primary face cases depend on some abnormality such as the one just described.On a Complication of Occipito-Posterior Positions of the Vertex. Though much has been written on tlie subject, occipito- posterior ])Ositions of the vertex offer a wide field for study. The frequency of this deviation from the normal standard is sufficiently marked to warrant us in endeavouring to trace out every complication wliich may accompany tlie position. Without entering fully into statistics, 1 should like to draw attention to the fact that, out of 414 births wliich have taken place in tlie new Maternity Hospital since May 1879 up till the present time (1881), fifty-nine occipito- posterior have occurred, i.e. 14 per cent., or 1 in 7. In the present article I wish to limit myself entirely to an inquiry into one of the complications met with in this form of cranial position. It may be broadly stated that the complications of occipito-posterior position resolve themselves into two sets—(1) those met with in the first stage of labour ; (2) those met with in the second. During the first stage of labour, occipito-posterior positions are unquestionably a common cause of delay. This delay is no doubt frequently enough incorrectly referred to simple rigidity of the cervix. In some cases there may be rigidity as a complication ; but where the parts preserve their normal tone and elasticity, and wliere the head and pelvis are of normal size, delay in dilatation of the cervix, from the position of the head alone, is by no means an uncommon occurrence. The explanation of this delay is not difficult to discover. If a digital examination be made early in the first stage of labour, the finger will recognise, not theOCCIPITO-POSTERIOR POSITIONS OF VERTEX. 193 posterior fontanelle, but the anterior extremity of the sagittal suture. In other words, from the obliquity of the uterus and the resistance of the tissues in the neck, tlie occiput is carried against the pehdc wall of the uterus and the sacral promontory, and a certain degree of extension is the result. Now, it seems that this degree of extension, tliis difficulty in completing flexion and of driving the flexed head into the pelvis and bringing it to impinge on the os uteri—constitutes the main difficulty in occipito-p05terior positions all through labour. For tlie same reason tbe cervix suffers to a erreater extent in occipito-posterior than occijnto-anterior positions, the dilatation required in the one case being greater than in the other. Meigs says: “ When the vertex is to the front it enters the os uteri favourably, and passes through the orifice with a circumference of 10^ in., or a circle of 3^ in. diameter; but when in a posterior direction, the latter acquires a circumference of 12 i or 13 in. A further complication is met with in the second stage, when the resistance of the pelvic floor is encountered and rotation takes place. With any of the three possibilities of rotation there is delay. (1) If forward, there is double the distance to travel to that demanded in a first or second position; (2) if hacJcward, the uterine force drives the head against the floor of the pelvis. The result is, instead of the head being pushed up from the floor of the pelvis and escaping under the pubic arch, it rolls back into the hollow of the sacrum under the sacral promontory. Here again the essential thing to do is to obtain flexion. It is no part of my present object to discuss the important practical question which here arises, whether we can hope for a change spontaneously or by art. The main point is to secure flexion. But a third possibility may occur, again, as a result of want of flexion, that is, when the pelvic resistance behind prevents descent and flexion, and when the liead becomes jammedCLINICAL PAPERS. 194 more or less transversely. It is to the result of the third possibility that the present communication has reference, lleyond the complications to which reference has been made, the increased laceration of the perineum in these cases where the head is delivered persistently posterior, whether spontaneously or by artificial aid, must not fail to be mentioned. The following cases are illustrative of the third variety of occipito-posterior, namely, those in which neither the anterior nor posterior rotations take place spontaneously, hut where the head remains Jammed Ijetween the lateral pelvic walls, and where, as a result, there is more or less extensive injury to the soft parts in the pelvis, this injury being uniform in its location and nature. The first time the condition was brought under my notice was on beginning duty at the IMaternity Hospital in August 1879. It has been my liabit ever since my appointment to the Maternity Hospital, to examine each patient, per vaginam, on the tenth day post-partum. I am aware that objections have been raised to such a procedure. This is not a fitting opportunity to discuss tliese. I will only say that I have derived much valuable information from such examination. In many cases I believe I have been able to give useful advice to the patient, and certainly in no case am I aware of having caused the patient temporary suffering or permanent injury. Carried out with ordinary antiseptic care, with gentleness, and with a due regard to the patient’s feelings, I am unable to appreciate the objections that have been raised. On the contrary, I would strongly advocate a similar careful examination of eacli patient some weeks before delivery. IMany complications might be foreseen, and accidents avoided. The first post-partum examination I made on assuming duty in the hospital in August was on a patient who had been left over from the previous (piarter. The report by I )rs IMurray and Adam is as follows :—OCCIPITO-POSTERIOR POSITIONS OF VERTEX. •95 August 6.—reriiieiim torn down to within lialf an inch of anus. On the right side of the pelvic wall, in the region of the right ischial spine, there is a distinct opening. Its edges are smooth and incurved. It admits readily two fingers, is about 1 in. in length, and its direction, as ascertained by a probe, is downwards and backwards. Through the opeiiing the ischial spine can be felt. Left side normal. Cervix forms but a slight projection ; its edges are ragged and tender. It is Ijilaterally fissured, ]nore deeply on the right side. Uterus normally situated. The examination causes no l)ain, except when the edges of the sinus are touched, when the patient cries out. Previous history.—Patient, a nmltipara in her fifth con- finement, each a forceps case, was delivered on July 28. The presentation was vertex, and the position right occipito- posterior. The first stage was completed in five hours ; second stage, three hours. Owing to the delay, forceps were applied, and the foetus delivered with backward rotation of the occiput. On the patient’s dismissal from hospital, three weeks after delivery, the sinus was still open, and admitted a probe at least f of an inch. Case 2.—In private practice, a primipara, int. 21. Labour began at midnight. At 8 A.iM. I found the os well dilated. Head, P.O.P. At 9 the membranes ruptured. At 9.30 the head had cleared the os, was descending P.O.P., with extension marked. The pelvis was deep. At 1 P.:\r., as no progress was made, a careful examination was made by Dr. George Mackay and myself. We found head extended, the occiput lying just over the right iliac spine, in front of the oblique diameter. Forceps were applied, and delivery easily effected. There was no attempt to rectify the position, but simpleCLINICAL PAPERS. 196 traction was made, resulting in the forehead coming under the arch of the i)ubes, and the occiput sweeping over the sacrum and perineum. There was a consideral)le tear of the perineum. The patient, it is to Ije oljserved, was in the second stage from 10 till 1, a period of three hours. Tlie perineum was stitched. Tlie patient re(}uired to have her urine drawn of for three days. She completed her puerperium witliout any pelvic pain, Imt witli a sliglit rise of temperature. On the tenth day the stitches were taken out, and a per vaginam examination made, reriueum completely healed. On the right vaginal wall tliere is a deep sinus. The edges are smooth and l)evelled. The wound easily admits the tip of the fore- finger, and is not tender. On introducing a probe it is found to pass in 1 in., direction downwards and backwards. Tlirough the wound the ischial spine can be distinctly recog- nised. Muco-purulent disci large is profuse. At the end of six weeks—The wound is felt almost closed. There is still a deep furrow. I had occasion to make an examination of the patient a year afterwards, and found the cicatrix well marked. «. Case 3.—An extern hospital case, seen with Dr. ]\Iaculloch, resident physician, Eoyal IMaternity. The patient, a young Irishwoman, a primipara, had been in labour for fifteen liours, ten in the first stage, and five in the second. The pains were strong, and the head right occii>ito-posterior, but tending to transverse. I applied forceps, and delivered easily, not, liowever, without a considerable tear of the perineum. There , was backward rotation of the occi]nit. I'lie jielvis was a deep one. The perineum tear was immediately stitched. f r Tlie puerperium was uncomplicated. On 10th I removed the stitches, and found the followinsx condition :—rerineum healed. On the right pelvic wall there is a distinct lacera- tion over the sacro-sciatic ligament and the ischial spine, admitting easily two fingers. The edges are smooth, but ' I197 OCCIPITO-POSTERIOR POSITIONS OF VERTEX. tender; a probe enters readily 2 h in. upwards. There is a considerable muco-pnrulent discharge; cervix deeply torn on the right side. Uterus normal. With the further history of the case I am nnaccpiainted. Case 4.—Private practice. A lady, who had previously been delivered of her first child by a friend in tlie country, was recommended to me by him for attendance during her second confinement. Her first delivery was aided by forceps, owing to the backward position of occiput. I have no other particulars concerning it. Her second labour occurred on December 10, 1879, when 1 saw her at 10 a.m., she having been in labour since 10 the previous night. I found tiie head had passed beyond the cervix and was right occi[)ito-posterior, the posterior part of head lying over the right ischial spine. The outlet seemed small, and the pelvis deej). At 12 noon, as no progress was made, I applied forceps and delivered a persistent occipito-posterior head. The perineum, which had been considerably torn in her first labour, was not further injured. On the third day she liad difficulty in passing water, and on the fourth I had to draw it off with a catlieter. This I had to do for several days. xVs 1 was anxious to know the cause of the retention, I made a vaginal examination, and found—An old tear of the perineum. On the right pelvic wall there is a deep laceration easily admitting two lingers; its direction is down and back ; very tender ; left side normal. Cervix deejily torn on the right side. The edge of the cervical tear is flush with the roof of the vagina. There was no con- stitutional disturbance worthy of note. The vagina was well washed out twice daily with an antiseptic lotion. At the end of six weeks the wound was rapidly closing, luit it was three months before it absolutely healed. bier next confinement took place in December 1880. AVhen I reached the patient the head was well down in theCLINICAL PAPERS. 198 ^ Trans. Edin. OhsL Soc., vol. iii. p. 361. pelvis, close to the vulva. The patient, wlio had always been averse to the attendance of a doctor, only allowed the nurse to send for me after slie had Ijeen in lal)our ten hours, when she was worn out and desirous of having chloroform administered. I administered chloroform ; and as the liead was small and well down on the perineum, 1 allowed nature to complete the case. The liead was liorn with the occijmt backwards lialf an hour after my arrival. On the third day post-i)artum she again complained of retention of urine. Before using the catheter, I insisted on a vaginal e.xamination, which was sulmiitted to with reluctance. I found the perineum without any fresh tear. On the riglit pelvic wall I found a distinct solution of continuity, sutticient to admit easily the tip of my forefinger. Its location was just over the site of tlie previous injury. The cervix was bilaterally fissured, the riglit side being the deeper; otherwise the parts were normal. Before leaving the ])atient at the month’s end, I was allowed an examination, when I found the sinus healing, but not closed. The records of these cases show a marked similarity. In each there is a special cranial position, and a special pelvic lesion along with it. Judging from the foregoing cases,—given a right occipito- posterior position of the vertex, delayed in its rotation at a particular point in the pelvis, a more or less deep injury to the soft resulting in a sinus, is likely to occur. Injuries and lacerations of vagina are common enough in labour with a contracted pelvis. Schroder has drawn attention to this. Angus Macdonald, ^ in an instructive ]iaper on occipito- jKisterior positions, makes a short reference to laceration of the soft parts. He writes as follows:—“ Of those which terminated face to })ubes, four of the mothers were ])rimiparic, and two multiparjc.” In those six cases which ended asOCCIPITO-POSTERIOR POSITIONS OF VERTEX. 199 “ face to puljes,” in one case only, and that, too, a innltipara, did there occur anything other than the most trifling lacera- tion of the soft parts. In this case the laceration, which was not at all severe, affected the back wall of vagina without affecting the perineal tissues. It soon liealed up, and gave no inconvenience. Both Schroder ^ and Macdonald refer to these lacerations, but give them no definite location in the pelvic cavity. They both further refer them to the use of the forceps. Let ns now proceed to examine the vaginal lesion, as met with in the cases recorded, as well as its causation :— 1. Its i^osition, on the right side of the pelvis, on a level w'ith and including the right ischial spine. On passing the finger into the opening the si)ine can readily be felt. 2. Its extent and direction.—In tlie recorded cases the sinus was from 1 to 3 in. in length, and its direction in three downwards and l^ackwards, and in one upwards. 3. Its causation.—The head descends slowly, slightly extended in the left oblicpie diameter, until it reaches the floor of the pelvis. Here the elastic, resilient posterior wall of the pelvis, aided by tlie forward and downward inclination of the ischium, attempt to throw the head forwards. If the pelvis be normal, and the head of average size, this is actually what takes place in the vast majority of occipito-posterior positions. • If, however, the ischial planes are nearly parallel, that is, if the normal slope is diminished, and if the ischial spines be prominent, as in the masculine or deep pelvis, then the advantage and cause of cavity rotation are lost. The liead descends in the oblique diameter, the usual forward rotation is attempted, but the head becomes jammed over the ischial spine. The head, somewhat extended, becomes fixed, and the pressure so caused results in a slough which involves the riglit ischial spine. This mechanism somewhat resembles that met with in a rickety pelvis. If rickety, mecliauisni ^ “Manual of Midwifery,” p. 305.CLINICAL LOAFERS. 200 ’ Trans. Ed in. Obst. Soc., vol. v. p. 131. consists in transverse descent and extension of the head, then, to a certain inoditied extent, that is wliat we meet with liere ; the depth and extent of the slough and sinus bearing a distinct reference to the length of time the head has re- mained hxed. It is clear, however, that but a short delay of the liead in this particular position will cause a vaginal sinus of very considerable dimensions. This is well brought out in Case 2, where, in a primipara in whom the second stage was scarcely three hours, a sinus of 2 in. in length resulted. Now, these sinuses in this i)articular ])Osition are deeper and more marked than qne would expect from the narrowness of the pelvis and the length of the ])ressure. This admits of exjdanation, in the fact that the sharp ju'ominence of the ischial spines afford a point upon wliicli tlie great bulk of the expulsive force can be readily expended. It can hardly be matter for doubt that the majority, if not all, the cases of persistent occi})ito-posterior occur in more or less deformed pelves. The mere fact of their repeated recurrence in the same patient is of itself a strong proof of this. The invariable occurrence of the lesion over the right ischium is a point to be noted. In looking for an explanation of this, several points are to be noted— 1. Eight occipito-postei'ior positions are more common than left. 2. The occiput bearing on the riglit ischial si>ine excites a greater })ressure than the sinciput bearing on tlie left. (1) Eecause the occiput is (d first more prominent than the sinciput. I say at first, because—thanks to the valuable observation of Dr. Hart ^—the compression which the head undergoes in this position is such that the head is pressed on in its antero-posterior diameter, and thus the asymmetrical wedge sha])c of tlie head is obliterated, so that at the point of contact with the pelvis neither end of the head has an advantage over the otlier, both being equally steep.OCCIPITO-POSTERIOR POSITIONS OF VERTEX. 201 (2) Because tlie pressure of the posterior pelvic wall will act more ou the occiput than the sinciput, thus tending to drive the occiput forward. 3. Because the occipital arm is the shorter of the cephalic lever, and the pressure bears more directly on tlie force resisting it than on the force resisting the longer arm. Although, in this school, the lever theory, as accounting for flexion of the foetal head, has been ably combated by I’rufessor Simpson,^ yet the lesion we have described would seem to negative the condition assumed by Labs - in his conception of the mutual relations of the girdle of contact and the foetal head. Eesults.—It must be admitted that in none of the cases I have recorded were the results to the patient serious, so far as the ultimate issue was concerned. It is none the less true that such lesions may easily become of grave import. 1. In two cases the patient suffered from retention of urine, recpiiring the use of the catheter. This was no doubt due to the vaginal wound, in the same way that retention is observed resulting from perineal tears. 2. The constitutional disturbance was small, and pelvic pain not in any way marked—so much so that, on that account, such injuries are very apt to be overlooked. This is what might be expected in a localised parametritis. 3. Such lesions greatly increase the risks of septiciemia. 4. They may be the starting-point of serious and long- continued parametritis. Two further points recpiire notice— 1. Did the forceps cause the injury ? I think not. The history of Case 4, at all events, conclusively proves that such an injury may occur without any instrumental interference; on the contrary, I believe— 2. That the prevention of the injury is to be looked for ^ Trans. Edin. Obst. Soc., vol. v. p. 75. - “Die Theorie der Geburt,” Bonn, 1877.CLINICAL PAPERS. 202 in the early application of the forceps. If my explanation of the occurrence of this lesion is correct, then it is clearly bad practice to delay ap})lying forceps to a partially rotated occipito-posterior head. Why are these sinuses not recognised ? (a) Although, after a forceps case, every careful practitioner will examine tlie vagina, yet he will prol)ably fail to detect the lesion, as the opening, if there is one at all, will be very small, the injury being the result of pressure, and the slough not separating for S(jine days. (6) Because such injuries cause l)ut little pelvic disturbance, and the attention of the accoucheur is not attracted to the pelvis, and, no vaginal examination l^eing made, the injury remains unobserved. To sum up— 1. A partially rotated occii)ito-posterior position is the least common of the various forms of occipito-posterior position. 2. Such an occipito-posterior position is usually associated with a degree of minor disproportion of the pelvis. 3. A very frequent if not invariable result is tlie forma- tion of a more or less deep vaginal sinus. 4. The situation of this sinus is over the right ischial spine. 5. The extent and depth of the sinus depends on tlie length of time that the pressure has been exerted ; though a very short period of pressure is sufficient to cause a sinus. G. These sinuses do not cause very much constitutional disturbance, and their existence is often overlooked, because no vatjfinal examination is made. o 7. The prevention of sucli injuries is to be found in an early use of the forceps.On the Causation of the Sacculated Preoiiant Uterus. O A sacculated pregnant uterus, occurring in the later nionths of gestation, is by no means a fre(pient occurrence, and the difficulties associated with the diagnosis are so great that I have tliouglit it well to describe four cases which 1 liave met witli lately. The condition lias been described under various names, e.g. retroversion of gravid uterus at term, sacciform uterus, and sacculated uterus. Merriman ^ says “ that lie has liad opportunities of being acquainted with two cases of that ])eculiar and unusual i)osition of the uterus, in wliich tlie os uteri is projected so liigh above the symphysis puljis as to be beyond the reacli of the finger, and the L)ody of the uterus so completely fills up the back part of the pelvis that the sacrum cannot be touched.” In one case the situation of the patient at the first seemed inexplicable, and she continued several days in laljour; but the gradual efforts of nature at length completed lier delivery by restoring the womb to nearly its natural situation. Slie recovered, Init the child was dead-l)orn. A second case recorded Ijy IMerriman was as follows:— “ Tains and discharge of liquor amnii. I’er vaginam, whole of back part of pelvis filled up l)y a globular tumour and no os uteri felt. I’er rectum, tumour made out to l.te uterine. I’atient continued with pains, and on the following day the tumour descended and })atient laid cimvulsions. On 18th and 19th no change. On ‘20th, on passing finger above pubes, eviilence of a show, luit os could not be felt. On 21st, ^ “A Synopsis of the ^’arions Kinds of Ditficnlt Parturition.”CLINICAL PAPERS. 204 tuuioiir ascended above brim of pelvds and putrid head of foetus descended, and os became evident. Labour ended by craniotomy.” Merrinian further adds: “ Tliese cases, I con- ceive, establish the fact tliat a retroversion of the uterus may exist at the full term, and, if I mistake not, go far to prove that many cases of supposed extra-uterine gestation were in reality cases of retro verted gravid uterus.” He furtlier cites a case where a fcetus was reimn^ed tlirough the i)f»sterior vaginal wall, sujjposed to l)e a case of extra-uterine pregnancy, wliicli, however, merely turned out to be a case of retroverted uterus. From Merrinian’s time till now cases of this al)- normality have been recorded liy Oldliam, lleid, Diihrssen, Speiher, and others. The following four cases have come under my own })ersonal ol)sei'vation :— Case 1.—A multipara, let. 35, was sent t(j me, supposed to be suffering from a large ovarian tumour. On examination 1 found a large semisolid irregular mass filling uj) tlie abdo- men, and reaching half-way between the undjilicus and ensi- form cartilage. On the left side, below tiie uml)ilicus, the mass appeared softer, but with this exception, the whole tumour seemed one mass, and had all the characteristics (if a semi- solid ovarian. There were no auscultatorv sounds of anv t/ t- kind, and the woman gave a liistory of sujijiressed menstrua- tion f(U' over a year. Per vaginam, the pelvis was filled up by an elastic bulging mass witli a somewhat irregular surface. No trace of a cervix uteri could be found, even after the most careful examination under an;esthesia. Under these circum- stances, 1 tliink I was more than justified in coming to the conclusion tluit the ]iatient was suffering from a large semi- solid sessile ovarian tumour. Indeed, the absence of the os —tlie jiresumption being that the uterus was tilted upwards and forwards, as is so often the case in sessile tumours—the absence of auscultatory sounds, tlie menstrual history, and205 SACCULATED PREGNANT UTERUS. the physical exaiiiinatiou of the tuinour, rendered no otlier diagnosis possible. I accordingly operated, and on 0})ening the abdomen found, as I expected, a large semisolid oyarian tumour. On attempting to remoye it, howeyer, 1 found a second tumour on the left side, reacliing up to near the um- l)ilicus, unconnected with the oyarian mass. Its real nature I at first did not recognise. The oyarian tumour was pedi- culated and remoyed without any great difficulty. The fact of its being pediculated showed that it had no relation to tlie pelyic mass below. The i>oint, howeyer, of main interest is tliis, that, projecting from the lower edge of the oyarian tumour, there was a hard, solid projection, firmly impacted against the soft mass to which I have just referred, and slightly adherent to it. This projection pressed over tlie brim of the pelvis, deeply indenting and dividing into an upper and a lower half what turned out to be the pregnant uterus. After recognising the condition of matters, I removed the ovarian tumour. Two days afterwards the patient showed signs of labour. I examined her per vaginam, and could just manage to reach the os and feel the projecting head. Owing to the alxlominal wound and recent operation, I dilated as rapidly as I could, and delivered with forceps a foetus between G and 7 months old. In this case the lower segment of the uterus contained the head, and the upper the trunk and extremities. The cause producing this sacculated condition was ol)- viously the growth of the ovarian projection imri 'passii with the development of pregnancy. Case 2 illustrates the production of this abnormally, from a different cause. In 188G I saw a patient suffering from a large pelvic abscess, which was pointing through the vaginal roof. She had missed two j>eri(xls, supposed to he due to exhaustion and anaemia consequent on the abscess. The abscess cavity was drained, and patient quite recovered.CLINICAL PAPERS. 2o6 [ heard nothing of her again for seven montiis, when I was asked by her medical attendant to see lier, as she was in labour, and he conld find no os. We found a tumour, evidently the pregnant uterus, reacliing as far up as the innbilicus, and a round, hrm, solid mass occupying the vagina. Under an amesthetic I could just feel the posterior lip of the cervix. It was quite hard and fixed. I waited some little time, but the cervix, which was hard and indurated, showed no symptoms of dilating, and her previous abscess in the pelvis and sul)se(|uent adhesions did not warrant one in using any great effort to pull the cervix into position. There was, therefore, no alternative but to open tlie abdomen and extract the f(jetus. This offered ng difficulty except one, namely, that 1 had some trouble in pulling the head, whicli was large and somewhat hydrocephalic, out of the cavity of the ])elvis. The child was dead, and the mother recovered from the operation ; but later on, about the second week, she developed peritonitis, probably septic in origin, and died of pneumonia. Dr. Eeid of Glasgow communicated a somewhat similar case to the Edinljurgh Obstetrical Society, which he designated as “ labour obstructed from an unusual cause.” In his case the placenta occupied the lower uterine segment, and tlie cause of the displacement he attributed to adhesions consequent upon an old pelvic inflammation. Case :3.—A third case was sent to me by Dr. MTvercher, which serves to illustrate still furtlier the method by which this anomaly is produced. A multipara, tet. 54, supposed to l)e suffering from an ovarian tumour, was sent liere for operation. I found a tumour somewhat irregular in shape, occupying the abdomen and reaching as far up as the umbilicus. The vagina was likewise filled by a large rounded tumour. Xo cervix uteri could be anywhere detected, and as there was no auscultatory sound to be heard except a very faint souffle, as207 SACCULATED PREGNANT UTERUS. the patient had had irregidar hiemorrhages, and as the tninonr had grown rapidly, I arrived at the concdusion that she was suffering from a sessile ovarian. I accordingly opened lier abdomen, and to my surprise found a pregnant uterus. Before closing the wound I was interested to know the cause of what was obviously a sacculated uterus. The only abnor- mality I could discover was a fibroid tumour in the anterior uterine wall, which, by impinging on the Ijrini of the pelvis, had prevented the lower uterine segment rising. I very gently freed this, and closed the abdomen. Four days after- wards the woman was delivered with the greatest ease, the cervix coming into its proper axis. After the birth of the child the iiterus again became retroverted, and tliere was some difficulty in removing the placenta. Diihrssen records a case of gravid retroflexion, at tlie sixth month, which was associated witli a soft fibroid in the anterior wall. It was partially replaced, and a subsecpient laparotomy was performed, as he mistook tlie lilu'oid for an ovarian tumour. After removal of the fibroid, the woman aborted and recovered. Sperber relates a case of partial retroflexion at the seventli month, there being no foetal parts in the pelvic portion. All the symptoms of incarceration were present at the seventh month, along with well-marked uterine pains, when curiously enough the uterus righted itself, and the pregnancy went on to full term. Case 4.—The counterpart of the case I have just narrated, which simulated a sacculated uterus, was under my care in AVard 28, in December 1893. She was sent in by Dr. Smith of Grahamstown. On examination we found a large pelvi-abdominal tumour, reaching as far up as the umbilicus and filling up the vagina completely. Xo cervix could be detected. The tumour filled the whole false as well as true pelvis. On the left side it was hard and nodular, but on theCLINICAL PAPERS. 2o8 right side, however, it was quite soft, and both a uterine soutlie and a foetal heart could be detected in that region, the vaginal part ijeing firm and solid. It was therefore obvious that one had to deal with a pregnancy and a group of uterine fibroids. A large fibroid mass occupied the cavity of the pelvis, completely obliterating the os. On Christmas Eve the patient went into labour, and, as labour went on, the tip of the finger could just reach the os al)ove the pubes. Delivery im' vias naturales was obviously impossible. Ciesarean section was performed. Unfortunately, the patient died some days later, partly from luemorrhage and partly from septi- ciemia. The foetus also was dead.CATALOGUE OF YOUNG J. PENTLAND’S PUBLICATIONS. EDINBURGH ; 11 TEVIOT PLACE. LONDON: 38 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C. March 1901.7 i ■7 T- • » Ui nmkm '-'life* • ^ •m./isJ?-. : -I , - j*1TiA0 ■-•*1 J mAJ f • c>:.- ^ i A t'Ar* 1U0 •r3 ’ t I *, ^0*...jJ^ '4^ ^ ! 17ot>'*st IS \li, • jL ^ t '■<» i ^ '-': .'k ;.10 - v«CATALOGUE 4 analytical tables. New and cheaper edition. Price 5s. OF MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS ISSUED BY YOUNG J. PENTLAND, EDINBURGH and LONDON. <-00 Aitchison, Robert 5., M.B., C.M., F.R.C.P.Ed., Visiting Physician, St. Cuthbert’s Poorhouse Hospital, Edinburgh. SYNOPSIS OF THERAPEUTICS. Arranged for the use of Prescribers. With Posological Table and an arrangement of the Poisons. i8mo, cloth, pp. xii., 120. Price 3s. Alexander, William, M.D., F.R.C.S., Honorary Surgeon, Royal Southern Plospital, Liverpool; Visiting Surgeon, Liverpool Workhouse Hospital; Acting Honorary Consulting Surgeon, Epileptic Institution, Manor House, Maghull. THE TREATMENT OF EPILEPSY. 8vo, cloth, pp. x., 220, with 9 illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. Anderson, M‘Call, M.D., F.F.P.S.(Glasg.), Professor of Medicine in the University of Glasgow ; Physician, Glasgow Western Infirmary. CONTRIBUTIONS TO CLINICAL MEDICINE. 8vo, cloth, pp. xii., 416, with 28 illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. nett. Behrens, Dr. W. J. TEXT-BOOK OF GENERAL BOTANY. Translation from the Second German Edition. Revised by Patrick Geddes, F.R.S.E., Professor of Botany in the University of Dundee. 8vo, cloth, pp. viii., 374, with 408 illustrations, finely engraved on wood, andCATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLICATLONS 4 Berry, George A., M.B., F.R.C.S.Ed., Ophthalmic Surgeon, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary; Senior Surgeon, Edinburgh Eye Dispensary ; Lecturer on Ophthalmology, University of Edinburgh. DISEASES OF THE EYE. A Practical Treatise for Students of Ophthalmology. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. 8vo, cloth, pp. xxiv., 728, with 197 illustrations, including many coloured figures from original drawings. Price 25s. {Fentland’s Medical Series, Volume Second.) THE ELEMENTS OF OPHTHALMOSCOPIC DIAGNOSIS. For the use of Students attending Ophthalmic Practice. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xii., 83. Price 3s. 6d. Billings, John S., A.M., M.D., LL.D., (Harv. and Edin.), D.C.L. (Oxon.), Member of the National Academy of Sciences, Surgeon, U.S.A., etc. THE NATIONAL MEDICAL DICTIONARY. Including Eng- lish, French, German, Italian, and Latin Technical Terms used in Medicine and the Collateral Sciences, and a Series of Tables of useful data. In two volumes. Imperial 8vo, pp. xlviii., 1530. Price 50s. nett. Bramwell, Byrom, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of Medicine, and on Practical Medicine and Medical Diagnosis, in the Extra-Academical School of Medicine, Edinburgh; Physician, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. DISEASES OF THE HEART AND THORACIC AORTA. Large 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 783. Illustrated with 226 wood engravings, and 68 pages of lithograph plates, exhibiting 91 figures—317 illustrations in all. Price 25s. INTRACRANIAL TUMOURS. 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 270, with 116 illustrations. Price 14s. Brockbank, Edward Mansfield, M.D., M.R.C.P., Honorary Physician, Ancoats Hospital, Manchester. THE MURMURS OF MITRAL DISEASE. 8vo, cloth, pp. viii., 48, with 5 illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. Bruce, Alexander, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Lecturer on Neurology in the School of Medicine, Edinburgh; Assistant Physician (formerly Pathologist), Edinburgh Royal Infirmary; Pathologist to the Royal Hospital for Sick Children. ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE NERVE TRACTS IN THE MID AND HIND BRAIN AND THE CRANIAL NERVES ARISING THEREFROM. Royal 4to. Illustrated with a series of 27 coloured plates from original drawings, and numerous figures throughout the text. Price 50s. nett.5 ISSCIED BY YOUNG J. PENTLAND. Bruce, J. Mitchell, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician and Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of Medicine, Charing Cross Hospital; Consulting Physician to the Consumption Hospital, Broinpton ; Examiner in Medicine, University of Cambridge. THE PRINCIPLES OF TREATMENT AND THEIR APPLI- CATIONS IN PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 8vo, cloth, gilt top, pp. xvi., 614. Price 16s. {Pentland^s Medical Series, Volume Seventh.) Bruen, E. T., M.D., Assistant Professor of Physical Diagnosis, University of Pennsylvania; one of the Physicians to the Philadelphia and University Hospitals. OUTLINES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF DIET; or. The Regulation of Food to the Requirements of Health and the Treat- ment of Disease. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 138. Price 4s. 6d. Burnett, Charles Henry, A.M., M.D., Aural Surgeon to the Presbyterian Hospital; one of the Consulting Aurists to the Pennsylvania Institution for the Deaf and Dumb ; Lecturer on Otology, Women’s Medical College of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EAR : their Prevention and Cure. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 154, with 5 illustrations. Price 4s. 6d. Carmichael, James, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Physician, Royal Hospital for Sick Children ; University Lecturer on Disease in Children, Edinburgh. DISEASE IN CHILDREN: a Manual for Students and Practi- tioners. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 591. Illustrated with charts. Price 10s. 6d. {Pentlandls Students' Mamials.) Cheyne, W. Watson, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., Professor of Surgery, King's College ; Surgeon to King’s College Hospital, and Paddington Green Children’s Hospital, London. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF BONES AND JOINTS: Its Pathology, Symptoms, and Treatment. 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 374. Illustrated with numerous wood engravings throughout the text. Price 14s. nett. THE TREATMENT OF WOUNDS, ULCERS, AND ABSCESSES. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 197. Price 3s. 6d.6 CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS SUPPURATION AND SEPTIC DISEASES. Three Lectures delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons of lingland. 8vo, cloth, pp. xii., 102, with 4 illustrations. Price 5s. Crocker, H. Radcliffe, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to the Department for Diseases of the Skin, University College Hospital, London. ATLAS OF THE DISEASES OF THE SKIN. In a series of Illustrations from Original Drawings with Descriptive Letterpress. Complete in Sixteen Fasciculi, containing 96 plates, exhibiting 238 figures printed in colours, from original drawings specially prepared for the work. Price 21s. each Fasciculus. Sold only by subscription. Also in 2 vols., handsomely bound in half morocco, gilt tops, the plates mounted on linen guards,—Price 18 Guineas nett. “ Compend ” Series, The. A Series of Handbooks to assist Students preparing for Examinations. COMPEND OF HUMAN ANATOMY, INCLUDING THE ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA. By Samuel O. L. Potter, M.D., M.R.C.P. (Lond.), Cooper Medical College, San Francisco. . Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 289, with 117 engravings and 16 full-page plates. Price 5s. COMPEND OF OBSTETRICS. By Henry G. Landis, A.M., M.D., late Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of ^\’omen in Starling Medical College. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 118, with 17 illustrations. Price 4s. 6d. COMPEND OF DISEASES OF CHILDREN. By Marcus P. Hatfield, A.M., M.D., Professor of Diseases of Children, Chicago Medical College. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 186, with coloured plate. Price 4s. 6d. COMPEND OF GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND MORBID ANATOMY. By H. Newhery Hall, Ph.G., M.D., Professor of Pathology and Medical Chemistry, Post-Graduate Medical School; Surgeon to the Emergency Hospital, etc., Chicago. Crown 8yo, cloth, pp. 204, with 91 illustrations. Price 4s. 6d.7 ISSUED BY YOUNG J. PENTLAND. COMPEND OF DENTAL PATHOLOGY AND DENTAL MEDICINE. By Geo. W. W.-xrren, D.D.S., Clinical Chief, Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 109. With 4 illustrations. Price 4s. 6d. Cunningham, D. J., M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Anatomy and Chirurgery, Trinity College, Dublin. MANUAL OF PRACTICAL ANATOMY. Second Edition. In 2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, illustrated with 372 wood engravings, and 2 coloured plates. Vol. I.—Upper Limb, Lower Limb, Abdomen; Vol. II.—Thorax, Head and Neck. Price per volume, 12s. 6d. {Pentland’s Students' Manuals.) TEXT-BOOK OF ANATOMY. By British Teachers. Edited by D. J. Cunningham, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Anatomy and Chirurgery, Trinity College, Dublin. In one volume, royal 8vo, with 700 engravings from original drawings. In press. The articles are contributed by Professor A. H. Young (Manchester), Dr. Arthur Robinson (London), Professor Arthur I'homson (Oxford), Dr. D. H. Hepburn and Dr. Harold Stiles (Edin- burgh), Professor A. M. Paterson (Liverpool), Professor R. Howden (Newcastle), Professor A. Birmingham (Dublin), Pro- fessor A. F. Dixon (Cardiff), and the Editor. Davidson, Andrew, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Late Visiting and Superintending Surgeon, Civil Hospital; Professor of Chemistry, Royal College, Mauritius. GEOGRAPHICAL PAd'HOLOGY. An inquiry into the Geogra- phical Distribution of Infective and Climatic Diseases. In 2 vols., large 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 1006. Illustrated with maps and charts. Price 31s. 6d. HYGIENE AND DISEASES OF WARM CLIMATES. In a Series of Articles by Eminent Authorities. Edited by Andrew D.avidson, M.D., F.R.C P.Ed., Late Visiting and Superintending Surgeon, Civil Hospital; Professor of Chemistry, Royal College, Mauritius; Author of “Geographical Pathology.” The Articles are contributed by Sir Joseph Fayrer, Drs. M.acnamara, Patrick M.anson, Lane Notter, E. A. Birch, R. W. Cop- pinger, David Bruce, G. M. Sternberg, Montagu Lub- bock, Hy. Cayley, Prospero Sonsino, The Editor, etc. etc. One volume, royal 8vo, cloth, pp. xx., 1016. Illustrated with 7 full-page plates and 97 figures throughout the text. Price 31s. 6d.8 CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLLCATIONS Davis, Edward P., A.M., M.D., Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Infancy in the Philadelphia Polyclinic ; Clini- cal Professor of Obstetrics, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia. A TREATISE ON OBSTETRICS FOR STUDENTS AND PRACTITIONERS. Large 8vo, cloth, pp. 553, illustrated with 217 engravings and 30 plates in colours and monochrome. Price 16s. nett. Dercum, Francis X., A.M., M.D., Ph.D., Clinical Professor of Nervous Diseases, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia; President of the American Neurological Association. A TEXT-BOOK ON NERVOUS DISEASES. By American Authors. Royal 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 1056. Illustrated with 341 engravings and 7 coloured plates. Price 25s, nett. *** The list of contributors includes the following well-known names :— N. E. Brill, M.D. Charles W. Burr, M.D. Joseph Collins, M.D. Charles L. Dana, M.D. F, X. Dercum, M.D. E. D. Fisher, M.D. Landon Carter Gray, M.D. C. A. Herter, M.D. George \V. Jacoby, M.D. W. W. Keen, M.D., LL.D. Philip Coombs Knapp, M.D. James Hendrie Lloyd, M.D. Charles K. Mills, M.D. S. Weir Mitchell, M.D., LL.D. Charles A. Oliver, M.D. William Osler, M.D. Frederick Peterson, M.D. Morton Prince, M.D. G. E. DE SCHWEINITZ, M.D. Wharton Sinkler, M.D, M. Allen Starr, M.D. James C. Wilson, M.D. De Schweinitz, Q. E., A.M., M.D., Professor of Ophthalmology in the Philadelphia Polyclinic; Clinical Professor of Ophthalmology in the Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia. TOXIC AMBLYOPIAS; their Classification, History, Symptoms, Pathology, and Treatment. Royal 8vo, cloth, pp. 238, with 46 figures in the text, and 9 full-page plates. Price 16s. nett.9 ISSUED BY YOUNG J. PENTLAND. Edinburgh Medical Journal. Edited by G. A. Gibson, M.D., D.Sc., F.R.C.P.Ed., Physician, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. Assisted m Special DeparUnents by— A. Lockhart Gillespie, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Medical Registrar, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary {Medicine). Alexis Ihomson, M.D., F.R.C.S.Ed., Assistant Surgeon, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary {Surgery). Francis W. N. Haultain, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Physician for Diseases of Women, Deaconess Hospital, Edinburgh {Obstetrics and Gyncs- cology). Ralph Stockman, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Glasgow {Therapeutics). R. F. C. Leith, M.A., M.B., B.Sc., F.R.C.P.Ed., Professor of Path- ology, Mason University College, Birmingham {Pathology). D. J. Cunningham, M.D., D.Sc., F.R.S., LL.D., D.C.L., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Dublin {Applied Anatomy). Thos. H. Milroy, M.D., B.Sc., Demonstrator of Physiology, Uni- versity of Edinburgh {Physiology). Sir J. Batty Tuke, M.D., D.Sc., F.R.C.P.Ed., Physician Super- intendent, Saughton Hall Asylum; and J. MacPherson, M.D. F.R.C.P.Ed. {Insanity). W. Allan Jamieson, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Physician for Diseases of the Skin, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary {Diseases of the Shin). P. M'Bride, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Aural Surgeon and Laryngologist, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary; and A. Logan Turner, M.D., F.R.C.S.Ed., Surgeon for Diseases of Ear and Throat, Deaconess Hospital, Edinburgh {Diseases of the Ear, Throat, a?id Nose). George A. Berry, M.B., F.R.C.S.Ed., Ophthalmic Surgeon, Edin- burgh Royal Infirmary; and W. G. Sym, M.D., F.R.C.S.Ed., Senior Assistant Ophthalmic Surgeon, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary {Diseases of the Eye). G. H. Melville Dunlop, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Extra Physician, Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh {Diseases of Childreti). C. Hunter Stewart, M.B., D.Sc., F.R.S.E., Professor of Public Health, University of Edinburgh {Public Health). Harvey Littlejohn, M.A., B.Sc., M.B., F.R.C.S.Ed., Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence, Surgeons’ Hall, Edinburgh {Medical Juris- prudence). The Volumes begin with the Issues for January and July. Subscription One Guinea per annum {in advance) post free. For the Colonies and Abroad, Twenty-four Shillings per annum {in advance) post free. Single Numbers Two Shillings each.lO CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS Felkin, R. W., M.D., F.R.S.E., F.R.O.5., Formerly Lecturer on Diseases of the Tropics and Climatology, School of Medicine, Edinburgh. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF SOME TROPICAL DISEASES AND THEIR RELATION TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA. 8vo, cloth, pp. 54. Illustrated with 16 coloured maps. Price 5s. Frost, W. Adams, F.R.C.S., Ophthalmic Surgeon and Lecturer on Ophthalmic Surgery, St. George's Hospital; Surgeon, Royal Westminster Ophthalmic Hospital, London. 'FHE FUNDUS OCULI, with an Ophthalmoscopic Atlas, illus- trating its Physiological and Pathological Conditions. In one handsome 4to volume, extra cloth, gilt top, with 47 plates, exhibiting 107 beautifully coloured figures, and numerous engrav- ings in the text. Price 63s. nett. Fuller, Eugene, M.D., Instructor in Genito-Urinary and Venereal Disea.ses, Post-Graduate Medical School, New York. DISORDERS OF THE MALE SEXUAL ORGANS. Large 8vo, cloth, pp. 242. Illustrated with 8 plates and 25 figures in the text. Price 9s. Qibbes, Heneage, M.D., Professor of Pathology in the University of Michigan ; formerly Lecturer on Histology in the Medical School, Westminster Hospital. PRACTICAL PATHOLOGY AND MORBID HISTOLOGY. 8vo, cloth, pp. 362. Illustrated with 60 photographic reproduc- tions. Price 12s. 6d. Gibson, Q. A., M.D., D.Sc., F.R.C.P.Ed., I.ecturer on the Principles and Practice of Medicine in the Edinburgh Medical School; Physician, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. DISEASES OF THE HEART AND AORTA. 8vo, cloth, pp. xxiv., 932. Illustrated with 210 figures in the text. Price 24s. (yPentlands Medical Scries, Voli/me Sixth.) TEXT-BOOK OF MEDICINE. By British Teachers. Edited by G. A. Gibson, M.D., D.Sc., F.R.C.P.Ed. 2 vols. Royal 8vo, each pp. xxiv., 872, with 122 illustrations. Just ready. The list of Contributors is as follows:—J. O. Affleck, Henry Ashby, A. G, Aulu, John Rose Br.^dford, Alexander Bruce,11 ISSUED BY YOUNG J. PENT!AND. J. Mitchell Bruce, Sir Lauder Brunton, W. S. Colman, G. A. Gibson, A. Lockhart Gillespie, Sir William Gowers, V. D. Harris, Herbert P. Hawkins, Allan Jamieson, the late A. A. Kanthack, Claude B. Ker, T. W. P. Lawrence, A. P. Luff, Hector Mackenzie, Patrick Manson, Sidney Martin, Sir John William Moore, I'. W. Mott, Thomas Oliver, W. Pasteur, R. W. Philip, S. Risien Russell, William Russell, Ralph Stockman, Frederick Taylor, James Taylor, W. Aldren Turner, W. Hale White, R. T. William- son, G. E. Cartwright Wood, G. Sims Woodhead. Gibson, Q. A., M.D., D.Sc., F.R.C.P.Ed., Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of Medicine in the Edinburgh Medical School; Physician, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary ; and Russell, William, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Assistant Physician, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary; Lecturer on Pathology and Morbid Anatomy, School of Medicine, Edinburgh. PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. A Guide to Methods of Clinical Investigation. Third Edition, revised and enlarged. Edited by Francis U. Boyd, Assistant Physician, Royal Infirmary, Edin- burgh. Crown 8vo, pp. xvi., 376, with many illustrations. {^Pent- lancTs Students' Manuals.) In press. Graham, James, M.A., M.D., Late Demonstrator of Anatomy, Sydney University ; Medical Superintendent, Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney. HYDATID DISEASE IN ITS CLINICAL ASPECTS. 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 204, with 34 full-page coloured plates. Price 16s. Hall, H. Newbery, Ph.G., M.D., Professor of Pathology and Medical Chemistry, Post-Graduate Medical School ; Surgeon to the Emergency Hospital, etc., Chicago. COMPEND OF PATHOLOGY AND MORBID ANATOMY. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 204, with 91 illustrations. Price 4s. 6d. Hare, Hobart Amory, M.D., B.Sc., Professor of Therapeutics and Materia Medica, Jefferson Medical College, Phila- delphia. SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL THERx\PEUTICS. By Various Authors. Edited by Hobart Amory Hare, M.D. In 6 volumes, royal 8vo, cloth, of about 500 pages each. Price per volume, 12s. 6d. nett, carriage free. Supplement, bringing the work up to date, in two volumes, royal 8vo, cloth. Price 25s, nett, carriage free.I 2 CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS Hatfield, Marcus P., A.M., M.D., Professor of Diseases of Children, Chicago Medical College. COMPEND OF DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 186, with coloured plate. Price 4s. 6d. Haultain, F. W. N., M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Lecturer on Midwifery and Diseases of Women, School of Medicine; Physician for Diseases of Women, Deaconess’ Hospital; Obstetric and (iynecological Physician, Royal Dispensary, Edinburgh; and Ferguson, J. Haig, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Lecturer on Midwifery and Diseases of Women, School of Medicine and Jubilee Institute for Nurses. HANDBOOK OF OBSTETRIC NURSING. Third Edition, revised and enlarged. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 263. Illustrated with coloured plate and 37 wood engravings. Price 5s. Hayem, Georges, M.D., Professor of Clinical Medicine in the Faculty of Medicine of Paris. PHYSICAL AND NATURAL THERAPEUTICS : the Remedial Uses of Atmospheric Pressure, Climate, Heat and Cold, Hydro- therapeutic Measures, Mineral Waters, and Electricity. Edited by Hobart Amory Hare, M.D., Professor of Therapeutics and Materia Medica, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia. Large 8vo, cloth, pp. 426, with 113 illustrations in the text. Price 14s. Hirst, Barton Cooke, M.D., Professor of Obstetrics in the University of Pennsylvania; and Piersol, George A., M.D., Professor of Embryology and Histology in the University of Pennsylvania. HUMAN MONSTROSITIES. In handsome folio, containing about 230 pages of text, illustrated with engravings and 39 full- page photographic plates from Nature. In four fasciculi. Price 25s. each nett, carriage free. The edition is limited, and is for sale only by subscription. Holland, J. W., M.D., Professor of Medical Chemistry and Toxicology, Jefferson Medical College, Phila- delphia. THE URINE AND THE COMMON POISONS, MEMORANDA, CHEMICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL, FOR LABORATORY USE. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. Oblong crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 65, with 28 illustrations. Price 4s,ISSUED BY YOUNG J BENT!AND. 13 Hygiene and Diseases of Warm Climates. {See Davidson.) Jamieson, W. Allan, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Physician for Diseases of the Skin, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary ; Lecturer on the Diseases of the Skin, University of Edinburgh. DISEASES OF THE SKIN. A Manual for Students and Prac- titioners. Fourth Edition, revised and enlarged. 8vo, cloth, pp. XX., 660, with 9 coloured illustrations. Price 21s. (Eent/and’s Medical Series, Volume Eirst.) Johnstone, Alexander, F.G.S., Lecturer on Botany, School of Medicine, Edinburgh. BOTANY. A Concise Manual for Students of Medicine and Science. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 260, with 164 illustrations and a series of floral diagrams. Price 6s. {PentlanIs Students' Manuals.) Journal of Pathology and Bacteriology. Edited, with the Collaboration of Distinguished British and Foreign Pathologists, by German Sims Woodhead, M.D., Professor of Pathology in the University of Cambridge; Assisted in Special Departments by Allan Macfadyen, M.D., Sidney Martin, M.D. (Lond.) {Pathological Chemistry) ; S. G. Shattock, F.R.C.S. {Alorbid Anatomy and Histology); G. E. Cartwright Wood, M.D. (Edin.) {Bacteriology). Subscription, One Guinea per annum (in advance), post free. Volumes I. to VI. in extra cloth binding. Price 25s. each nett. It has been felt for some cime that the want in this country of a Journal dealing specially with General and Experimental Pathology has militated most seriously against the free interchange of ideas, not only between English-speaking pathologists, but also between British and Foreign workers. Although the Transactions of the Pathological Society deal with communications which are brought before its members, there is no medium in which longer articles, and especially those from workers throughout the United Kingdom and abroad, can be brought14 CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS before a less limited circle of readers. It has been thought desirable, therefore, to found a journal specially devoted to the publication of original contributions to General Pathology, Patho- logical Anatomy, and Experimental Pathology, including Bacteriology. These articles will, of course, be mainly from British Laboratories and Hospitals ; but the co-operation of many distinguished Continental, American, and Colonial Pathologists has been obtained, and papers written or edited by them will be placed before our readers. In order to increase the interest and extend the usefulness of the Journal, it is intended that, in addition to original articles, critical summaries of work done in special departments of Pathology and Bacteriology shall from time to time be published. All articles appearing in the Journal will be signed. The Journal appears at least four times a year, but it will be issued more frequently if necessary, in order to ensure publication of all papers as early as possible after they are received. The numbers issued throughout the year form a volume, royal 8vo, of about 500 pages. They are printed on good paper, and freely illustrated with Chromo-lithographs and figures in black and white. Amongst those who collaborate are the following :—J. C. Adami, Montreal; S. Arloing, Lyons; B. Bang, Copenhagen; Ch. Bouchard, Paris; R. Boyce, Liverpool; J. Rose Bradford, London ; H. Buchner, Munich ; Sir Charles Cameron, Dublin; Angelo Celli, Rome; A. Chantemesse, Paris; A. B. Charrin, Paris; A. Chauveau, Paris; W. Watson Cheyne, London; H. Chiari, Prague; W. T. Councilman, Boston; D. D. Cunningham, Calcutta; S. Delepine, Manchester; J. Dreschfeld, Manchester; I). Drummond, Newcastle; Von Esmarch, Koenigsberg; Ch. Firket, Libge; R. H. Fitz, Boston; P. Grawitz, Greifswald ; W. S. Greenfield, Edinburgh; E. H. Hankin, Agra; Victor Horsley, London ; F. Hueppe, Prague; O. Israel, Berlin; Alfred Lingard, Poonah; Lord Lister, London; O. Lubarsch, Rostock; P. Marie, Paris; E. Metch- nikoff, Paris; F. W. Mott, London; Robert Muir, Glasgow; E. Nocard, Alfort; T. Oliver, Newcastle; J. Orth, Got- tingen ; William Osier, Baltimore; J. F. Payne, London; T. Mitchell Prudden, New York; J. M. Purser, Dublin ; J. C. Salomonsen, Copenhagen; Sir J. Burdon Sanderson, Oxford; C. S. Sherrington, Liverpool; J. Lorrain Smith, Belfast; A. M. Stalker, Dundee; II. Stilling, Lausanne; I. Straus, Paris; 'I\ P. Ander- son Stuart, Sydney ; R. 'rhoma, 1 )orpat; E. 'rrcvclyan, Leeds; Sir John Batty 'Puke, Edinburgh ; L. Vaillard, Ikaris; Rudolf Virchow, Berlin; 11. Marshall Ward, Cambridge; A. Weich- selbaum, Vienna; C. Weigert, Frankfort a/M; W. H. Welch, Baltimore; Sir Samuel Wilks, Bart., London; A. E. Wright, Netley ; Von Zenker, Erlangen ; E. Ziegler, Freiburg.ISSUED BY YOUNG J FENTLAND. 15 Keating:, John M., M.D., LL.D., Fellow of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia ; late Visiting Obstetrician to the Philadelphia Hospital, and Lecturer on Diseases of Women and Children, Phila- delphia Hospital. NEW PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY OF MEDICAL TERMS. Nezv Impressiofi. Large 8vo, cloth, pp. 818. Price 7s. 6d. nett. Keating, John M., M.D., LL.D., and Coe, Henry C., M.D., M.R.C.S., Professor of Gynaecology, New York Polyclinic. CLINICAL GYN.TICOLOGY, MEDICAL AND SURGICAL. By American Teachers. 2 vols., royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt tops, pp. xviii., 994. Illustrated with 34 full-page plates and 377 engravings in the text. Price 25s. nett. Keith, Skene, F.R.C.S.Ed., GYNAECOLOGICAL OPERATIONS, EXCLUSIVE OF THOSE INTERFERING WITH THE PERITONEAL CAVITY. 8vo, cloth extra, pp. xii., 118. Illustrated with 44 figures. Price 5s. nett. Keith, Skene, F.R.C.S.Ed., Assisted by Keith, George E., M.B., C.M. TEXT-BOOK OF ABDOMINAL SURGERY. A Clinical Manual for Practitioners and Students. 8vo, cloth, gilt top, pp. xvi., 508. With 34 illustrations. Price 16s. {Pentland’s Medical Scries, Volume Fourth.) Kelynack, T. N., M.D.(Vict.), M.R.C.P.(Lond.), Pathologist, Manchester Royal Infirmary; Demonstrator and Assistant Lecturer in Pathology, Owens College, Manchester. RENAL GROWTHS: THEIR PATHOLOGY, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMEN'r. 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 269. With 96 illus- trations. Price 12s. 6d. nett.i6 CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS Landis, Henry Q., A.M., M.D., Late Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women in Starling Medical College. COMPENI) OF OBSTETRICS. Fourth Edition, thoroughly re- vised, enlarged, and improved. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. ii8, with 17 illustrations. Price 4s. 6d. Leuckart, Rudolf, Late Professor of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in the University of Leipsic. THE PARASITES OF MAN AND THE DISEASES WHICH PROCEED FROM THEM. A Text-Book for Students and Practitioners. Translated from the German with the co-operation of the Author by William E. Hoyle, M.A. (Oxon.), M.R.C.S., F.R.S.E., Curator of the Museums, Owens College, Manchester. Natural History of Parasites in General.—Systematic Account of the Parasites Infesting Man.—Protozoa.—Cestoda. Large 8vo, cloth, pp. xxviii., 772. Illustrated with 404 engravings. Price 31s. 6d. Lockwood, Charles Barrett, F.R.C.5., Hunterian Professor, Royal College of Surgeons of England ; Assistant Surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital; Surgeon to the Great Northern Central Hospital, London. TRAUMATIC INFECTION. Hunterian Lectures delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xii., 138. Illustrated with 27 wood engravings in the text. Price 3s. ASEPTIC SURGERY. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 264. Price 4s. THE RADICAL CURE OF HERNIA, HYDROCELE, AND VARICOCELE. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xii., 279, with 23 illustra- tions. Price 4s. 6d. McBride, P., M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Surgeon to the Ear and Throat Department of the Royal Infirmary ; Lecturer on the Diseases of the Throat and Ear in the University, and in the School of Medicine of the Royal Colleges, Edinburgh. DISEASES OF THE THROAT, NOSE, AND EAR. A Clinical Manual for Students and Practitioners. Third Edition, revised and partly rewritten. 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 744, with 46 coloured illustrations from original drawings. Price 25s. {Penthmd's Medical Series, Voliane Third.)17 ISSUED BY YOUNG J. PENTLAND. Maclaren, P. H., M.D., F.R.C.S.Ed., Royal Infirmary; formerly Surgeon in charge of the Lock Edinburgh Infirmary ; Examiner in the Royal College of Surgeons, OF VENEREAL DISEASES. A Series of Illustrations from Original Paintings, with Descriptions of the Varied Lesions, their Differential Diagnosis and Treatment. In 10 fasciculi, price 6s. each ; or complete in one handsome royal quarto volume, extra cloth, price 63s. nett. Maguire, Robert, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to, and Joint Lecturer on Pathology, St. Mary’s Hospital; Assistant Physician, Consumption Hospital, Brompton, London. d HE INVOLUTION OF LIFE: A Scheme of Pathology. 8vo, cloth, pp. 23. Price Is. 6d. nett. Martin, Sidney, M.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P., Physician, University College Hospital; Professor of Pathology, University College, London. FUNCTIONAL AND ORGANIC DISEASES OF THE STOMACH. 8vo, cloth, pp. xx., 506. Illustrated with 57 engravings throughout the text. Price 16s. {Pentiatufs Medical Series, Volume Ei/th.) Mills, Charles K., M.D., Professor of Mental Diseases and of Medical Jurisprudence in the University of Pennsylvania; Clinical Professor of Neurology in the Women’s Medical College, Pennsylvania. THE NERVOUS SYSTEM AND ITS DISEASES. A Practical Treatise on Neurology for the Use of Physicians and Students. Large 8vo, cloth, pp. xxx., 1056, with 459 illustrations. Price 25s. THE NURSING AND CARE OF THE NERVOUS AND THE INSANE. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 147. Price 4s. 6d. Morison, Alexander, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., M.R.C.P. Lond., Physician in charge of Out-Patients to the Great Northern Central Hospital and the Children's Hospital, Paddington Green; Physician to the St. Marylebone General Dispensary, London. ON 'I'HE RED.-VTION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM TO DISEASE AND DISORDER IN 'FHE VISCER.V. Being the Morison Lectures delivered before the Royal College of Physicians in Edinburgh in 1897 and 1898. 8vo, cloth, gilt top, pp. xvi., 132, with 39 illustrations. Price 7s. 6d.i8 CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLLCATLONS Morrow, Prince A., M.D., Clinical Professor of Genito-Urinary Diseases; formerly Lecturer on Dermatology in the University of the City of New York ; Surgeon to Charity Hospital, New York. SYSTEM OF GENITO-URINARY DISEASES, SYPHILOLOGY, AND DERMATOLOGY. By Various Authors. Edited by Prince A. Morrow, M.D. In 6 divisional volumes of about 550 pages each. Royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt tops, illustrated with coloured plates and engravings throughout the text. Price per volume, 14s. nett. Sold only by subscription. Muir, Robert, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Professor of Pathology, University of Glasgow, and Ritchie, James, M.A., M.D., B.5c., Lecturer on Pathology, University of Oxford. MANUAL OF BACTERIOLOGY. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xx., 564, wdth 126 illustrations. Price 12s. 6d. {Penila?^s Students' Afa?iuals.) Murray, R. Milne, M.B., F.R.C.P.Ed., Assistant Physician, Royal Maternity and Simpson Memorial Hospital; Lecturer on Midwifery and Diseases of Women, School of Medicine, Edinburgh. MANUAL OF MIDWIFERY. Crown 8vo, with numerous illus- . trations, pp. 500 or thereby. Preparing. Muskett, Philip E., L.R.C.P. & 5. Ed., Late Surgeon to the Sydney Hospital; formerly Senior Resident Medical Officer, ■Sydney Hospital. PRESCRIBING AND TREATMENT IN THE DISEASES OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN. Third Edition, revised, enlarged, and re arranged. i8mo, pp. xx., 334, in flexible leather binding for the pocket. Price 6s. 6d. Musser, John H., M.D., Assistant Professor of Clinical Medicine in the University of Pennsylvania; Physician to tlie Philadelphia and the Presbyterian Hospitals, etc. PRACriCAL TREATISE ON MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS. For Students and Physicians. Royal 8vo, cloth, pp. viii., 866. Illus- trated with 162 engravings and 2 coloured plates. Price 24s.ISSUED BY YOUNG J BENTLAND. 19 Newman, David, M.D., Surgeon, Glasgow Royal Infirmary. MALIGNANT DISEASE OF THE THROAT AND NOSE. 8vo, cloth, pp. xii., 213, with 3 illustrations. Price 8s. 6d. Norris, W. F., A.M., M.D., Professor of Ophthalmology, University of Pennsylvania; and Oliver, C. A., A.M., M.D., Surgeon to the Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia. TEXT-BOOK OF OPHTHALMOLOGY. Royal 8vo, cloth, pp. viii., 622. Illustrated with 5 coloured plates and 357 woodcuts. Price 25s. Oliver, Thomas, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician, Royal Infirmary, Newcastle-on-Tyne ; Professor of Physiology, University of Durham. LEAD POISONING, IN ITS ACUTE AND CHRONIC FORMS. 8vo, cloth, pp. xii., 122, with 32 illustrations, mostly in colours. Price 10s. 6d. Osier, William, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P., Professor of Medicine in the Johns Hopkins University, and Physician-in-Chief to the Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore. THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Third Edition, thoroughly revised and largely rewritten. 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 1182, with charts and illustrations. Price 24s. LECTURES ON ANGINA PECTORIS AND ALLIED STATES. 8vo, cloth, pp. viii., 160. Price 6s. nett. Park, Roswell, A.M., /VI.D., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Surgery and of Clinical Surgery in tlie Medical Department of tlie University of Buffalo ; Surgeon to the Buffalo General Hospital, etc. A TREATISE ON SURGERY, by American Authors, for Students and Practitioners of Surgery and Medicine. Edited by Roswell Park, A.M., M.D. 2 volumes, large 8vo, cloth, pp. 1603. Illustrated with 807 engravings and 38 full-page plates in colours and monochrome. Price 34s. nett.20 CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLLCATLONS Parvin, Theophilus, M.D., LL.D., Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children in Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, and one of the Obstetricians to the Philadelphia Hospital. THE SCIENCE AND ART OF OBSTETRICS. Third Edition, thoroughly revised. Large 8vo, cloth, pp. 685, with 269 wood engravings and 2 coloured plates. Price 18s. Pekelharing, C. A., Professor in the Faculty of Medicine, University of Utrecht; and Winkler, C., Lecturer in the University of Utrecht. BERI-BERI: Researches concerning its Nature and Cause and the Means of its Arrest. Translated by James Cantlik, M.A., M.B., F.R.C.S. 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 160, w'ith coloured illustrations from original drawings. Price 10s. 6d. nett. Potter, Samuel O. L., M.D., M.R.C.P. (Lond.), Cooper Medical College, San Francisco. COMPEND OF HUMAN ANATOMY, Including the Anatomy of the Viscera. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 289, with 117 engravings and 16 full-page plates. Price 5s. Schafer, E. A., LL.D., F.R.S., Professor of Physiology, University of Edinburgh. TEXT-BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY. By British Physiologists. Edited by E. A. Schafer, F.R.S., Professor of Physiology, Uni- versity of Edinburgh. 2 vols., royal 8vo. Vol. L, pp. xx., 1036, with 3 plates and 93 illustrations in the text. Price 31s. 6d. Vol. IL, pp. xxiv., 1365, with 449 illustrations in the text. Price 42s. *** The list of contributors is as follows:—Professor Sir Burdon Sanderson (Oxford), Professor Gamgee, Dr. Gaskell (Cambridge), Professor Gotch (Oxford), Professor Sherrington (Liverpool), Professor M'Kendrick (Glasgow), Professor Halli- UURTON (King’s College), Professor Haycraft (Cardiff), Dr. Pkmhrev (Guy’s), Professor Starling (University College), J. N. Langley (Cambridge), Professor Wavmouth Reid (Dundee), B. Moore (('haring Cross), F. G. Hoprins (Cambridge), Leonard Hii.r, (London Hospital), AV. H. R. Rivers (Cambridge), J. S. Edkins (St. Bartholomew’s), A. A. Gray (Glasgow), 1). Noel Baton (Edinburgh), and the Editor.ISSUED BY YOUNG J. PENTLAND. 2 I Schech, Philip, M.D., Lecturer in the University of Munich. DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, THROAT, AND NOSE. Including Rhinoscopy and Methods of Local Treatment. Translated by R. H. Blaikie, M.D., F.R.S.E., formerly Surgeon, Edinburgh Ear and Throat Dispensary ; late Clinical Assistant, Ear and Throat Department, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. 8vo, cloth, pp. xii., 302, with 5 wood engravings. Price 9s. Schmiedeberg, Dr. Oswald, Professor of Pharmacology, and Director of the Pharmacological Institute, University of Strassburg. ELEMENTS OF PHARMACOLOGY. Translated under the Author’s supervision, by Thomas Dixson, M.B., Lecturer on Materia Medica in the University of Sydney, N.S.W. 8vo, cloth, pp. xii., 223, with 7 illustrations. Price 9s. Sheild, A. Marmaduke, M.B. (Cantab.), F.R.C.S., Surgeon and Surgeon in Charge, Throat Department, St. George’s Hospital. London. SURGICAL ANATOMY; For Students. Crovrn 8vo, cloth, pp. xii., 226. Price 6s. {Pentland's Students' Manuals.) Skene, Alexander J. C., M.D., Professor of Gynecology in the Long Island College Hospital, Brooklyn New York. MEDICAL GYNECOLOGY: A Treatise on the Diseases of Women from the Standpoint of the Physician. 8vo, cloth, pp. vi-, 530, with illustrations in the text. Price 21s. Smith, W. Ramsay, M.B., B.Sc., Formerly Demonstrator of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Minto House; Late Senior Assistant to the Professor of Natural History, University of Edinburgh. EXAMINATION QUESTIONS. Set for the Professional Exam- inations in Edinburgh University during a period of ten years, selected from the Calendars. NATURAL HISTORY, arranged and annotated. Price Is. nett. BOTANY, arranged and annotated. Price Is. 6d. nett. CHEMISTRY, answered and annotated. Price 2s. nett. ANATOMY, answered and annotated. Price 2s. nett. MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS, answered and annotated. Price 2s. nett. PHYSIOLOGY, answered and annotated. Price 2s. nett.22 CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS PATHOLOGY, hi Tress. MIDWIFERY AND GYNHsCOLOGY, answered and annotated. Price Is. 6d. nett. PRACTICE OF PHYSIC, answered and annotated. Price Is. 6d. nett. SURGERY, answered and annotated. Price Is. 6d. nett. MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE AND PUBLIC HEALTH answered and annotated. Price 2s. nett. Smith, W. Ramsay, M.B., B.Sc., Formerly Demonstrator of Zoology, University of Edinburgh ; and Norwell, J. Stewart, B.Sc. ILLUSTRATIONS OF ZOOLOGY, INVERTEBRATES AND VERTEBRATES. New and cheaper Edition. Crown 4to, extra cloth, gilt top, with 70 plates exhibiting over 400 figures. Price 7s. 6d. Snell, Simeon, F.R.C.S.Ed., Ophthalmic Surgeon, Sheffield Royal Infirmary; Professor of Ophthalmology, University College, Sheffield. A PRACTICAL GUIDE TO THE EXAMINATION OF THE EYE. For Students and Junior Practitioners. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 177, with 88 illustrations in the text. Price 5s. Starr, Louis, M.D., . Late Clinical Professor of Diseases of Children in the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania; Physician to the Children’s Hospital, Philadelphia. DISEASES OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS IN INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD. With Chapters on the Investigation of Disease and on the General Management of Children. Second Edition. Post 8vo, cloth, pp. 396, with illustrations. Price 10s. Stephenson, Sydney, M.B., F.R.C.S.Ed., Surgeon to the Ophthalmic School, Hanwell, London. EPIDEMIC OPHTHALMIA : Its Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Management. 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 278. Illustrated with a coloured plate and 25 figures in the text. Price 9s. nett. Stewart, Sir Thomas Grainger, M.D., LL.D., Late Physician in Ordinary to Her Majesty the Queen, for Scotland; Professor of the Practice of Physic and of Clinical Medicine in the University of Edinburgh. LECTURES ON GIDDINESS AND ON HYSTERIA IN THE MALE. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. x., 89, with 13 illustrations. Price 2s. 6d, nett.23 ISSUED BY YOUNG J. PENTLAND. System of Gynecology and Obstetrics. By American Authors. Edited by Matthew D. Mann, A.M., M.D., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology in the Medical Department of the University of Buffalo, N.Y.; and Barton Cooke Hirst, M.D., Associate Professor of Obstetrics in the University of Pennsylvania; Obstetrician to the Philadelphia and Maternity Hospitals; Gynecologist to the Orthopaedic Hospital. In 8 very handsome volumes, royal 8vo, cloth, of about 400 pages each. Fully illustrated with engravings and coloured plates. Price 12s. 6d. each nett. For sale by subscription only. Talamon, Ch., Physician to the Tenon Hospital, Paris. APPENDICITIS AND PERITYPHLITIS. Translated from the French by Richard J. A. Berry, M.B., C.M., Late President of the Royal Medical Society, Edinburgh. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. viii., 240. Price 6s. Taylor, Robert W., M.D., Clinical Professor of Venereal Diseases at the College of Physicians and Surgeons (Columbia College), New York; Surgeon to Bellevue Hospital, and Consulting Surgeon to City (Charity) Hospital, New York. THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF VENEREAL DISEASES. Royal 8vo, cloth, pp. 1002. Illustrated with 230 engravings in the text and 7 coloured plates. Price 22s. nett. Text=Book on Nervous Diseases. By American Authors. See Dercum. Text=Book of Physiology. By British Phy= siologists. See Schafer. Text=Book of Medicine. By British Teachers. See Gibson. Text=Book of Pharmacology and Therapeutics. By British and American Teachers. See White. Thomson, J. Arthur, M.A., Regius Professor of Natural History in the University of Aberdeen. OUTLINES OF ZOOLOGY. Third Edition, revised and enlarged. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xx., 820, with 323 illustrations in the text. Price 15s. {FefiilanPs Students' Manuals.)CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 24 Walley, Thomas, M.R.C.V.S., Late Principal of the Edinburgh Royal (Dick's) Veterinary College; Professor ol Veterinary Medicine and Surgery. A PRACTICAL GUIDE TO MEAT INSPECTION. Fourth Edition, thoroughly revised and edited by J. M'Fadyean, Principal and Professor of Comparative Anatomy, Royal Veterinary College, London. Post 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 198, with coloured illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. In Press. Waring, H. J., M.S., B.Sc.(Lond.), F.R.C.S., Demonstrator of Operative Surgery, and Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy, St. Bartholomew’s Hospital; Senior Assistant Surgeon, Metropolitan Hospital; Surgeon to the Belgrave Hospital for Children, London. DISEASES OF THE LIVER, GALL BLADDER, AND BILIARY SYSTEM; their Pathology, Diagnosis, and Surgical Treatment. 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 385, with 58 engravings. Price 12s. 6d. nett. MANUAL OF OPERATIVE SURGERY. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xxxii., 662, with 420 illustrations in the text. Price 12s. 6d. Warren, Geo. W., D.D.S., Clinical Chief, Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery. COMPEND OF DENTAL PATHOLOGY AND DENTAL MEDICINE. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. 109. Price 4s. 6d. Webster, J. Clarence, B.A., M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Professor of Midwifery and Diseases of V'omen in the University of Chicago ; formerly Demonstrator of Gynaecology, M'Gill University ; Assistant Gynaecologist, Royal Victoria Hospital, Montreal; Assistant to the Professor of Midwifery and Diseases of Women and Children in the University of Edinburgh. ECTOPIC PREGNANCY : its Etiology, Classification, Embryology, Diagnosis, and Treatment. 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 240, with 22 pages of plates and 15 figures throughout the text. Price 12s. 6d. nett. RESEARCHES IN FEMALE PELVIC ANATOMY. Demy 4to, cloth, gilt top, xiv., 129. Illustrated with 26 full-page coloured plates, from original drawings. Price 30s. nett. TUBO-PERITONEAL ECTOPIC GESTATION. Demy 4to, cloth, gilt top, pp. xii., 54. Illustrated with ii full-page plates, exhibiting numerous figures, mostly coloured. Price 16s. nett. PRACTICAL AND OPERATIVE GYNECOLOGY. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 295. Illustrated with 54 engravings. Price 7s. 6d.ISSUED BY YOUNG J. PENTLAND 25 DISEASES OF WOMEN. A Text-Book for Students and Prac- titioners. Crown 8vo, cloth, pp. xxiv., 688, with 241 illustrations. Price 14s. White, W. Hale, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician and Lecturer on Medicine, Guy's Hospital, London. 'I'EXT-BOOK OF PHARMACOLOGY AND THERAPEUTICS. Royal 8vo, pp. xxiv., 1016. In Press. Williamson, Richard T., M.D., M.R.C.P., Medical Registrar, Manchester Royal Infirmary; Hon. Medical Officer, Pendleton Dispensary; Assistant to Professor of Medicine, Owens College, Manchester. DIABETES MELLITUS AND ITS TREATMENT. 8vo, cloth, pp. xvi., 417, with 18 illustrations (two coloured). Price 12s. 6d. nett. Winckel, Dr. F., Professor of Gynaecology and Director of the Royal Hospital for Women ; Member of the Supreme Medical Council and of the Faculty of Medicine in the University of Munich. TEXT-BOOK OF OBSTETRICS, including the Pathology and Therapeutics of the Puerperal State. Designed for Practitioners and Students of Medicine. Translated from the German under the supervision of J. Clifton Edgar, A.M., M.D., Adjunct Pro- fessor of Obstetrics in the Medical Department of the University of the City of New York. Royal 8vo, cloth, pp. 927. Illustrated with 190 engravings, mostly original. Price 28s. Woodhead, Q. Sims, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Professor of Pathology, University of Cambridge. PRACTICAL PATHOLOGY : A Manual for Students and Practi- tioners. Third enlarged and thoroughly revised Edition. 8vo, cloth, pp. xxiv., 652, with 195 coloured illustrations, mostly from original drawings. Price 25s. Woodhead, Q. Sims, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., and Hare, Arthur W., M.B., C.M. PATHOLOGICAL MYCOLOGY : An Enquiry into the Etiology of Infective Diseases. Section i.—Methods. 8vo, cloth, pp. xii., 174, with 60 illustrations, mostly original (34 in colours). Price 8s. 6d.CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 26 Gibson iy Ru.s.sell. CLASSIFIED INDEX. — Abdominal Surgery, Keith. Abscesses (Treatment), Cheyne. Anatomy (Practical), Cunningham. ,, ('Pext-Book), CUNNINGHA.M. ,, (Compend of), . Potter. „ (Surgical), Sheild. ,, (Examination Questions), Smith. ,, (Female Pelvic), Webster. Angina Pectoris, .... OSLER. Appendicitis, .... Tala MON. Aseptic Surgery, .... Lockwood. Atlases (Brain), .... Bruce. „ (Eye), .... Frost. „ (Skin), .... Crocker. ,, (Venereal Diseases), Maclaren. Bacteriology, .... Muir & Ritchie. )? .... „ and Pathology, Journal of. WooDHEAD N' Hare. Beri-Beri, ..... Pekelharing. Bones and Joints (Disease of). Chevne. Botany (Text-Book), Behrens. ,, (Manual), Johnstone. ,, (Examination Questions), . S.mith. Brain (Tumours), .... Bramwell. , (Illustrations of Nerve Tracts), Bruce. Chemistry (Examination Questions), Smith. Children (Diseases), Carmichael. ,, (Compend of Diseases), . Hatfield. ,, (Treatment of Diseases), Muskett. ,, (Digestive Organs in). Starr. Clinical Gynaecology, Keating & Coe. ,, Medicine Ander.son. j) n ...ISSUED BY YOUNG J. PENT!AND. 2 Clinical Medicine, Musser. Dental Pathology, Dermatology (Atlas), Diabetes Mellitus, Diagnosis (Ophthalmoscopic), „ (Physical), „ (Medical), Dictionary of Terms (5 languages), 5) 55 * * Diet, . . . . Digestive Organs in Children, Warren. Crocker. Jamieson Morrow. Williamson. Berry. Gibson & Russell. Musser. Billings. Keating. Bruen. Starr. Ear (Diseases), 55 55 • • Ectopic Gestation, Edinburgh Medical Journal. Epidemic Ophthalmia, Epilepsy, . Examination Questions, . Eye (Diseases), „ (Atlas), „ (Diseases), ,, (Examination of), „ (Epidemic Ophthalmia), ,, (Toxic Amblyopias), . Burnett. M‘Bride. Webster. Stephenson. Alexander. Smith. Berry. Frost. Norris & Oliyer. Snell. Stephenson. De Schweinitz. Genito-Urinary Diseases, . Morrow. Geographical Pathology, . Davidson Gestation (Ectopic), Webster. Giddiness, . . . • Stewart. Gynaecological Operations, Keith. Gynaecology (Text-Book), . Ke.ating & Coe. „ (Medical), Skene. ,, (Examination Questions), Smith. ,, (Practical), Webster. ,, (Manual), 55 and Obstetrics (System of), . Mann & Hirst. Heart (Diseases), . • • • uramwell. ,, (Mitral Murmurs), . . • Brockbank.CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 28 Heart (Diseases), .... Gibson. ,, (Angina Pectoris), . OSLER. Hernia, ..... Lockwood. Human Monstrosities, Hirst & Piersol. Hydatid Disease, .... Graham. Hygiene and Diseases of Warm Climates, . Davidson. Hysteria, ..... Stewart. Infective Diseases, Lockwood. Intracranial Tumours, Bramwell. Involution of Life, Maguire. Joints (Tuberculous Disease), Cheyne. Journal of Pathology. ,, (Edinburgh Medical). Jurisprudence, Medical (Examination Questions), Smith. Kidney (Renal Growths) . Kelynack. Lead Poisoning, .... Oliver. Life, Involution of, . . . M.A.GUIRE. Liver (Diseases of). Waring. Malignant Disease of Throat and Nose, Newman. Materia Medica(Examination Questions), . Smith. Meat Inspection, .... Wallev. Medical Diagnosis, Musser. ,, Dictionary (5 languages),. Billings. )J ... Keating. „ Gynaecology, Skene. ,, Jurisprudence (Examination Questions), Smith. Medicine (Clinical) Anderson. Medicine (Text-Book of), . Gibson. ,, (Text-Book of), . Osler. „ (Examination Questions), Smith. Midwifery (Treatise on), . Davis. ,, (Compend of), . Landis. ,, (Manual of). Murray. ,, (Text-Book), . Parvin. ,, (Examination Questions), Smith. ,, (System of). Mann & Hirst. ,, (Text-Book of). WiNCKEL. Mitral Murmurs, .... Brockbank. Monstrosities (Human), . Hirst & Piersol.PENTLAND. 29 IS SIZED BY YOUNG J. Gibson & Russell. Morbid Anatomy, Hall. Mouth, Throat and Nose (Diseases), SCHECH. Natural History (Examination Questions), Smith. ,, „ (Illustrations), Smith & Norwell. )) >) (Text-Book), Thomson. Nervous Diseases (Epilepsy), Alexander. n ,, (Text-Book), Dercum. 3) 53 . Mills. „ „ (Nursing), Mills. Nervous System and Visceral Disease, Morison. Nose (Diseases), .... McBride. „ (Diseases), . . . . Schech. Nose and Throat (Malignant Disease of), . Newman. Nursing (Obstetric), Haultain & Ferguson. „ (Insane), . . . . Mills. Obstetric Nursing,.... Haultain & Ferguson. Obstetrics (Text-Book of). Davis. „ (Compend of), . Landis. „ (Manual of). Murray. ,, (Science and Art of). Parvin. „ (System of). Mann & Hirst. „ (Text-Book of). WiNCKEL. Ophthalmia (Epidemic), . Stephenson. Ophthalmology (Text-Book of). Norris & Oliver. Ophthalmoscopic Diagnosis, Berry. Ophthalmoscopy (Atlas of). Frost. Parasites of Man, .... Leuckart. Pathological Mycology, WooDHEAD & Hare. Pathology (Geographical),. Davidson. ,, (Practical), Gibbes. „ (Compend of) . Hall. „ (Dental), Warren. ,, (Practical), Pathology and Bacteriology (Journal of). WoODHEAD. Pediatrics, . . • • Carmichael. Hatfield. Muskett. Starr. Pharmacology, . . . . Schmiedeberg. „ (Text-Book), Hale White. Physical Diagnosis,CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLLCATIONS 30 Physiology (Examination Questions), ,, (Text-Book), . Poisoning (Lead), . Practice of Medicine (Text-Book of), ,, ,, (Text-Book of), „ ,, (Exam. Questions), Pregnancy (Ectopic), Smith. Schafer. Ol.lVER. Gibson. OSLER. Smith. Webster. Prescribing and Treatment of Children’s Diseases, Muskett. Renal Growths, Kelynack. Septic Diseases, Sexual Organs (Diseases), . Skin Diseases (Atlas of), . 5) ... 5) n ... stomach (Diseases), Surgery (Abdominal), ,, (Aseptic), ,, ( Treatise on), ,, (Examination Questions), ,, (Operative), Surgical Anatomy, Syphilology, )) ... System of Genito-Urinary Diseases, ,, Gynaecology and Obstetrics, ,, Therapeutics, . Cheyne. Fuller. Crocker. Jamieson. Morrow. Martin. Keith. Lockwood. Park. Smith. Waring. Sheild. Morrow. Taylor. Morrow. Mann & Hirst. Hare. Teratology, Therapeutics (Synopsis), . ,, (Principles of'rreatmcnt) „ (System), ,, ( Physical and Natural), „ (Examination Questions) ,, (Text-Book), Throat (Diseases), ,, and Nose (Malignant Disease of), ,, Nose and Ear (Diseases), . Toxic Amblyopias, Traumatic Infection, Treatment (Principles of), Hirst <S: Piersol. A ITCH I SON. Bruce. Hare. Hayem & Hare:. Smith. Hale White. SCHECH. Newman. McBride. De Schweinitz. Lockwood. Bruce.ISSUED BY YOUNG J. PENT LAND. 3 Tropical Diseases,.... Davidson. Felkin. Tumours (Intracranial), Bramwell. Ulcers (Treatment), Cheyne. Urine, ..... Holland. Venereal Diseases, M.\claken. 5) )> ... Morrow. )) n ... Taylor. Visceral Disease and Nervous System, Morison. Warm Climates (Diseases), Davidson. Women (Diseases of), Keating & Coe. ,, (Diseases), Skene. „ (Diseases of), Webster. Wounds ( I'reatment), Cheyne. Zoology (Examination Questions), Smith. ,, (Illustrations of), . Smith & Norwell. „ (Outlines of), Thomson.V'-*‘ yf*/