» ■ ==* 8 catalogue of new works BURTIN—A TREATISE ON THE KNOWLEDGE NECESSARY TO AMATEURS OF PICTURES. Translated and abridged from the French of M. Francis Xavier de Burtin, first Stipendiary Member of the Royal Academy of Brussels in the Class of Sciences, etc. By Robert White, Esq. 8vo. with Four Lithographic Engravings. BUTLER.—SKETCH OF ANCIENT AND MODERN GEOGRAPHY. By Samuel Butler, D.D., late Lord Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry; and formerly Head Master of Shrewsbury School. New Edition, revised by his Son, 8vo. 9s. boards. The present edition has been carefully revised by the author's son, and such alterations introduced as continually progressive discoveries and the latest information rendered neces- sary. Recent Travels have been constantly consulted where any doubt or difficulty seemed to require it; andsome additional matter has been added, bothin the ancient and modern part. BUTLER.—ATLAS OF MODERN GEOGRAPHY. By the late Ur. Butler. New Edition; consisting of Twenty-three coloured Maps, from a New Set of Plates; with an Index of all the Names of Places, referring to the Latitudes and Longitudes. 8vo. 12s. half-bound. BUTLER.—ATLAS OF ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY. By the late Dr. Butler. Consisting of Twenty-three coloured Maps : with an Index of all the Names of Places, referring to the Latitudes and Longitudes. New Edition. 8vo. 12s. half-bound. *,* The above two Atlases may be had, in One Volume, 4fo. 24s. half-bound. CALLCOTT.-A SCRIPTURE HERBAL: With upwards of 120 Wood Engravings. By Lady Callcott. Square crown 8vo. 1/. 5s. cloth. My chief object and aim in writing this little book,' commences the amiable and noble authoress, ‘ has been to induce those who read and love (lod’s written IVord, to read and love the great unwritten book which he has everywhere spread abroad for our learning.' The ‘chief object and aim' of this pious and gifted woman cannot fail in its object. Indeed, we may almost to a certainty pronounce for this labour of her devotional love a success which her most Christian sanguine wishes could not have anticipated for it. The authoress has termed it a small book, and may have at first intended it as such; it is gratifying that it is otherwise, for a single page could not be spared, so redolent is each with the best of material. It is remarked in the preface that the work was written while the body was in a state of ill health—what a contrast must the spirit have presented ! May it long direct the head and hand to add thus to our useful literature. —Standard. CATLOW.- POPULAR CONCHOLOCY; Or, the Shell Cabinet Arranged: being an Introduction to the modern System of Conchology; with a sketch of the Natural History of the Animals, an account of the Formation of the Shells, and a complete Descriptive List of the Families and Genera. By Agnes Catlow. Foolscap. 8vo. with 312 Woodcuts, 10s. 6d. cloth. “ This admirable little work is designed to facilitate the study of natural history, daily becoming more attractive, not only from its intrinsic interest, but also from its multiplied relations with geology. It will furnish the young entomologist with an elementary manual, which, though scientific in its form, is, by the simplicity of its method, and the familiarity of its style, calculated effectually to assist him in the early steps of his progress in this fascinating pursuit.”—St. James’s Chronicle. CHALENOR.—POETICAL REMAINS OF MARY CHALENOR. Fcp.8vo.4s. cloth. CHALENOR.-WALTER CRAY, A Ballad, and other Poems; including the Poetical Remains of Mary Chalenor. 2d Edition, with Additions, fcp. 8vo. 6s. cloth. “ As the simple and spontaneous effusions of a mind apparently filed with feelings which render the f reside happy, and untiuetured with affectation or verbiage, they may with benefit be received into the ‘ happy homes of England,' and offered as a gift to the youthful of both sexes.’’—Chambers’ Edinburgh Journal. CLAVERS.—FOREST LIFE. By Mary Clavers, an Actual Settler; author of “ A New Home, Who’ll Follow?” 2vols. fcap. 8vo. 12s. cloth. THE COLLEGIAN’S GUIDE; Or, Recollections of College Days ; setting forth the Advantages and Temptations of a University Education. By**** ******, M.A., College, Oxford. Post 8vo. 10s. 6rf. cloth. COLTON —LACON ; OR, MANY THINGS IN FEW WORDS. By the Rev. C. C. Colton. New Edition, 8vo. 12s. cloth. CONVERSATIONS ON BOTANY. 9th Edition, improved. Foolscap Svo. with 22 Plates, 7s. 6d. cloth ; with the Plates coloured, 12s.cloth. The object of this work is to enable children and young persons to acquire a knowledge of the vegetable productions oj their native country, by introducing to them, in a familiar manner, the principles of the Linn tea n System of Botany. For thispurpose, the arrangement of Linnceus is briefly explained; a native plant of each class, with a few exceptions, is examined, and illustrated by an engraving ; and a short account is added of some of the principal foreign species.