12 CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS GREENER.—THE GUN; Or, a Treatise on the various Descriptions of Small Fire Arms. By VV. Greener, Inventor of an Improved Methodof Firing Cannon by Percussion, etc. 8vo. with Illustrations, 15*.boards. GREENER.—SCIENCE OF GUNNERY, As applied to the use and Construction of Fire Arms. By William Greener, author of “The Gun,” etc. With numerous Plates, 15*. cloth. GREENWOOD (COL.)—THE TREE-LIFTER; Or a New Method of Transplanting Trees. By Col.Geo.Greenwood. 8vo. with an Illus- trative Plate,7*. cloth. GUEST.—THE MABINOCION, From the Llyfr Coch o Hergest, or Red Book of Hergest, and other ancient Welsh MSS. with an English Translation and Notes. By Lady Charlotte Guest. Royal 8vo. 8*. each. Part 1.—The Lady of the Fountain. Part2.—Percdur Ab Evrawc ; a Tale of Chivalry. Part 3.—The Arthurian Romance of Geraint, the Son of Erbin. Part!.—The Romance of Kilhwch and Olwen. Part 5.—The Dream of Rhonabwy, and the Tale of Pwyll Prince of Dyved. Part 6.—Branwen, the Daughter of Llyr: Manawyddan, the Son of Llyr ; and Math, the Son of Mathonwy. GWILT.-AN ENCYCLOP/EDIA OF ARCHITECTURE; Historical, Theoretical, and Practical. By Joseph Gwilt, Esq., F S.A. Illustrated with upwards of 1000 Engravings on Wood, from Designs by J. S. Gwilt. In 1 thick vol. 8vo. containing nearly 1300 closely-printed pages. '21. 12*. 6rf. cloth. “Gwilt’s Encyclopaedia ranks high as a work for professional students, containing the mathematics of architecture, with copious details upon all the technicalities of the science. It is a work which no professed architect or builder should be without."—Westminster Review. HALL—NEW GENERAL LARGE LIBRARY ATLAS OF FIFTY-THREE MAPS, on Columbier Paper ; with the Divisions and Boundaries carefully coloured. Con- structed entirely from New Drawings, and engraved by Sidney Hall. New Edition, thoroughly revised and corrected ; including all the Alterations rendered necessary by the recent Official Surveys, the New Roads on the Continent, and a careful Comparison with the authenticated Discoveries published in the latest Voyages and Travels. Folded in half, Nine Guineas, half- bound in russia; full size of the Maps, Ten Pounds, half-bound in russia. The following Maps have been re-engraved, from entirely new designs — Ireland, South Africa, Turkey in Asia; the following have been materially improved—Switzerland, North Italy, South Italy, Egypt, Central Germany, Southern Germany, Greece, Austria, Spain, and Portugal: a new Map of China, corrected from the recent government survey of the coast from Canton to Nankin (to which is appended the Province of Canton, on an enlarged scale, in a separate compartment), has since been added. HALSTED—LIFE AND TIMES OF RICHARD THE THIRD, as Duke of Gloucester and King of England : in which all the Charges against him are care- fully investigated and compared with the Statements of the Cotemporary Authorities. By Caroline A. Halsted, author of “ The Life of Margaret Beaufort.” 2 vols. 8vo. with Portrait from an Original Picture in the possession of the Right Honourable Lord Stafford, never before engraved, and other Illustrations, 1/. 10*. cloth. “ IVe consider Miss Halstead's work as one of the most interesting and able pieces of history which has ever been presented to the world. The research which it manifests is most extensive, the arrangement clear and lucid, the style always animated and picturesque. Many new lights are. thrown on the career of Richard, many new facts elicited, and the injustice of four centuries vindicated by this intrepid and indefatigable champion of historical truth)’ Metropolitan Magazine. HANNAM.-THE ECONOMY OF WASTE MANURES: A Treatise on the Nature and Use of Neglected Fertilizers. By John Hannam. Written for the Yorkshire Agricultural Society, ana published by permission of the Counsel. Feap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. cloth. “ We consider this an invaluable treatise. It must prove of incalculable benefit to that class to whom it is chiefly addressed. By the general reader it will likewise be perused with no common interest. It is a lucid, practical demonstration from beginning to end. The writer is not only entirely master of his subject, but he has unfolded it in the most scientific, and, we would add, logical manner. He has displayed so marked a precision in his exposition, that the dullest capacity may at once comprehend his meaning and the diiftof his argument.”—Atlas. HAND-BOOK OF TASTE; Or, How to Observe Works of Art, especially Cartoons, Pictures, and Statues. 3d Edition. By Fabius Pictor, foolscap 8vo. 3*. boards. “ We have never met with a compendious treatise on art, and the principles which should guide taste in judging of its productions, that contained more excellent matter than this small unpretending volume. The following rules, and those which precede them, should be well conned over before visiting exhibitions, and afterwards stitched up with our catalogue." Tait’s Magazine. HANSARD.—TROUT AND SALMON FISHING IN WALES. By G. A.Hansard, 12mo. 6*.6<f. cloth. m — 1 • - - —— ■■ ■■•-sii