CHEESE. 426 Deebyshiee Cheese. A small, white, rich variety, very similar to Dunlop cheese. Dtjnlop Cheese. Rich, white, and but- tery ; in round forms, weighing from 30 lb. to 60 lb. Dutch Cheese. (Holland.) Of a globular form. 5 to 14 lb. each. Those from Edam are very highly salted; those from Gouda less so. Gloucestee Cheese. Single Glo’ster ; from milk, deprived of part of its cream; Double Glo’ster, from milk retaining the whole of the cream. Mild tasted, semi-buttery consistence, without being friable ; in large, round, flattish forms. Geeen or Sage Cheese. From milk mixed with the juice or an infusion or decoction of sage leaves, to which marygold flowers and parsley are frequently added. Geuyeee Cheese. A flne description of cheese made in Switzerland, and largely con- sumed on the Continent, It is Arm and dry, and exhibits numerous cells of considerable magnitude. Its flavour is peculiar, and is not generally liked by English people. Lincoln Cheese. From new milk and cream ; in pieces about 2 inches thick; soft, and will not keep over 2 or 3 months. Neufchatel Cheese. A much esteemed variety of Swiss cheese; made of cream, and weigh about 5 or 6 oz. Noefolk Cheese. Dyed yellow with an- notta or saffron; good, but not superior ; in cheeses of 30 lb. to 50 lb. Paemesan Cheese. (Parma, &c.) From the curd of skimmed milk, hardened by a gentle heat. The rennet is added at about 120°, and an hour afterwards, the curdling milk is set on a slow Are until heated to about 150° Fahr.; during which the curd separates in small lumps. A few pinches of saffron are then thrown in. About a fortnight after making, the outer crust is cut off*, and the new surface varnished with linseed oil, and one side coloured red. Roquefoet Cheese. From ewes’ milk; the best prepared in France. It greatly re- sembles Stilton, but is scarcely of equal rich- ness or quality, and possesses a peculiar pun- gency and flavour. Slipcoat or Soft Cheese. A very rich white cheese, somewhat resembling butter; for present use only. Stilton Cheese. The richest and finest cheese made in England. From raw milk to which cream taken from other milk is added; in cheeses generally twice as high as they are broad. Like wine, this cheese is vastly im- proved by age, and is therefore seldom eaten before it is 2 years old. A spurious appear- ance of age is sometimes given to it by placing it in a warm, damp cellar, or by surrounding it with masses of fermenting straw, or dung. Suffolk Cheese. From skimmed milk; in round, flat forms, from 24 lb. to 30 lb. each. Very hard and horny. Swiss Cheese. The principal cheeses made in Switzerland are the Gruyere, the l^euf- | chdtel, and the Schabzieger or green cheese. The latter is flavoured with melilot. Westphalian Cheese. In small balls or rolls of about 1 lb. each. It derives its pecu- liar flavour from the curd being allowed to become partially putrid before being pressed. In small balls or rolls of about 1 lb. each. WiLTSHiEE Cheese. Resembles poor Cheshire or Glo’ster. The outside is gene- rally painted with a mixture of ruddle or red ochre and whey. Yoek Cheese. From cream: it will not keep. Qual., cf*e. Cheese has been objected to as an article of diet, hut without sufficient reason, since it is, when of good quality, eminently nutritious, wholesome, and digestible. Like all other food, cheese digests more readily when well masticated, and the neglect of this precaution is one reason why it frequently dis- agrees with delicate stomachs. It is rendered more agreeable to many palates by toasting it, hut becomes less digestible by that operation. The basis of cheese is caseine or coagulated curd, a proteine substance; it therefore cannot fail to prove nutritious, provided it is pro- perly digested. Cheese-curd, carefully freed from water and milk by expression, and the addition of salt, is a mixture of caseine and hitter. It contains all phosphate of lime, and part of the phosphate of soda of the milk. (Liebig.) When taken as a condiment, espe- cially when rich and old, it powerfully pro- motes the secretion of the saliva and gastric juice, and thereby aids the stomach in per- : forming its proper functions. Rotten cheese is very unwholesome. „ Concluding Remarks. It is surprising that Z cheese is not more frequently made an article ! of domestic manufacture, especially by house- wives resident in the country. The operations I of cheese-making are all exceedingly simple, t and not laborious, and will, in most cases, , amply repay the outlay for the milk. Besides, ^ cheese is not unfrequently coloured with stains and pigments, which are injurious, and even poisonous, the risk of taking which is not en- countered when it is made at home. Several persons have nearly lost their lives from eating cheese coloured with annotta, for instance. This substance, though harmless in itself, is frequently adulterated with red lead, so that the cheesemonger may very innocently intro- duce a dreadful poison, when he only intends to improve the colour of his goods. When a whole cheese is cut, and the con- ( sumption small, it is generally found to become i unpleasantly dry, and to lose flavour before it ! is consumed. This is best prevented by cutting I a sufficient quantity for a few days’ consump- | tion from the cheese, and keeping the re- mainder in a cool place, rather damp than dry, spreading a thin film of butter over the cold surface, and covering it with a cloth or pan.