ALCOHOL. 62 solving camphor and resins, and other quali- ties already described:—2. If a few fibres of asbestos be ‘ moistened’ with a saturated solu- tion of bichromate of potash in oil of vitriol, and exposed to the smallest possible portion of hot alcohol-vapour, it is almost instantly turned green, owing to the formation of oxide of chromium. In practice, the asbestos may be inserted in the neck of a retort, or even of a bulbed glass-tube containing a few drops of the suspected solution, when the effect occurs as soon as distillation commences. Ether and pyroxilic spirit produce a nearly similar result; but the ‘ first’ of these is distinguished from alcohol by its not being readily miscible with water in all proportions ; and the ‘ other,’ by its discoloration by nitric acid (see above); whilst both may be readily distinguished by their peculiar and character- istic odour. Uses. In the arts, alcohol is used by the varnish-maker, to dissolve resins; by the per- fumer, to extract the odour of plants, and dis- solve essential oils, soaps, and other similar substances; by the pharmaceutist, to prepare tinctures and other valuable medicinals; by the instrument-maker, to fill the bulbs of ther- mometers required to measure extreme degrees of cold; by the chemist, in analysis, and in the manufacture of numerous preparations; by the anatomist and naturalist, as an anti- septic; and by the physician, for various pur- poses and applications as a remedy. It is also frequently burnt in lamps, and in parts of the world where it is inexpensive, it is employed in the manufacture of vinegar. Its uses, when dilute, as in the ‘spirituous liquors’ of com- merce, are welf known. In medicine, it is em- ployed both concentrated (‘ alcohol^ ‘ rectified spirit’) and dilute proof spirit,’ ‘brandy,’ ‘gin,’ Sfc.), as a caustic, irritant, stimulant, tonic, &c« It has also been used in a multitude of other cases, and has been applied to an almost infi- nite variety of other purposes. Gen. Commentary. The selection of any one of the processes given above for the pre- paration of alcohol, must greatly depend on the convenience or position of the operator. Chloride of calcium, and quick-lime, from their powerful affinity for water, and easy application, are the hygrometric substances most gene- rally employed; but the processes involving the use of the other substances and methods already noticed, have all of them advantages under particular circumstances. Gay-Lussac has recommended the use of caustic baryta, instead of ‘ lime;’ and others have employed dry alumina, as an absorbent of the water prior to distillation. Common proof spirit may be concentrated until its sp. gr. falls to about 0’825, by simple distillation in a water bath; at which sp. gr. it contains only about 11§ of water, by weight, and is then nearly as volatile as pure alcohol. A convenient apparatus for the preparation of alcohol, on the small scale, is that figured in the engr., and which will be self-explanatory to every one competent to use it. The tank {i) should be supplied with ice-cold water; and the receiver {g) should be covered with cloths kept continually wet with water of the same temperature. The capsule or basin (c) is a water-bath heated by the little gas-furnace {d). On the large scale, for commercial alcohol, a copper still, fitted with a glass refrigeratory and receiver, is commonly employed. By surrounding the capital of a still, or other like apparatus, by a water-bath kept at the proper temperature (see Table, p. 72), the alcoholic richness or content of the product may be regulated to the greatest nicety, for I their having either experimented with samples any desired strength. which have not been absolutely anhydrous, or The different statements of chemical authors | to their not having made the proper correc- as to the boiling point, specific gravity, &c., of j tions for temperature, and for the different alcohol, already noticed, may be referred to | materials of which their vessels and instru-