1195 SHRIMP—SIGNATURES. '^'ered cochineal m a weak solution of ammonia ir of sal ammoniac, and afterwards dilute with ^mter.—c. Add oil of vitriol, 4 oz., to water, j. gall., and digest dried red rose leaves, 8 oz., iQ the mixture for 24 hours.—d. Dissolve \nadder lake in a solution of sesquicarbonate f ammonia, and dilute the solution with \vater. I Violet. To a solution of nitrate of cobalt n a solution of sesquicarbonate of ammonia, jdd solution of ammonia-sulphate of copper, il. s. to strike the colour. ! Yellow.—a. A solution of sesquioxide or •ust of iron, ^ lb., in hydrochloric acid, 1 quar^, liluted with water.—b. To a strong decoction f)f French berries add a little alum.—c. A imple solution of chromate or bichromate of \)otash in distilled water.—d. A solution of iqual parts of nitre and either chromate or \nchromate of potash, in water. Obs. Most of the above require filtering, vhich should he done through powdered glass, )laced in a glass funnel, and rtever through >aper. They usually need a second filtration, ifter being exposed to the light for some veeks; hence it is convenient always to make i little more of them than is required to fill he bottle, as several of them, when diluted ifter filtration, become again turbid. Distilled vater or filtered rain water should be used. SHRIMP. See Shell-eish. SHRUB. A species of concentrated cold )unch, prepared with lemon juice, spirit, lugar, and water. When the word is used in ts unqualified form, etjm; sheub is alluded to. I Brandy Shrub. Prep. 1. Take of brandy, gall.; orange and lemon juice, of each, 1 pint; peels of 2 oranges; do. of 1 lemon ; digest or 24 hours, strain, and add of white sugar, t lb., dissolved in water, 5 pints; in a fortnight lecant the clear liquid for use. I 2. As KUM SHEUB (below), but using brandy. i Lemon Shrub. Syn. Lemonade sheub. Concentrated lemonade, either with or without ihe addition of a little spirit. Used to make lemonade or lemon sherbet. I Punch Shrub. Concentrated punch, made vith equal parts of spirit and water. Used to nake punch. Rum Shrub. Prep. 1. As beandt sheub, ()ut substituting rum for brandy, j 2. Take of rum, at proof, 34 gall, (or, if of jiny other strength, an equivalent quantity) ; jwen/fa/ oils of orange and lemon, of each, 2 oz., llissolved in rectified spirit, 1 quart; good ump sugar, 300 lb., dissolved in water, 20 |?all.; mix well by ‘ rummaging,^ and gradually lind cautiously add of Seville orange juice, or of ii solution of tartaric acid in water, q. s. to hroduce a pleasant but scarcely perceptible \xcidity ; next ‘ rummage * well for 15 minutes, jben add sufficient water to make the whole measure exactly 100 gal., and again ‘rum- mage’ well for at least half an hour; lastly, pung the cask down loosely, and allow it to repose for some days. In a fortnight, or less. it will usually be sufficiently ‘ brilliant ’ to be racked. The product is 100 gall., at 66 u. p. Obs. Rum shrub is the kind in the greatest demand, and that having a slight prepon- derance of the orange flavour is the most esteemed. If wholly flavoured with lemon, it is apt to acquire a kind of ‘ dead ’ or ‘ musty ’ flavour by long keeping. The substitution of a few gallons of brandy for a portion of the rum, or the addition, after racking, of about 1 oz. each of bruised bitter almonds, cloves, and cassia, the peels of about 2 dozen oranges, and a ‘ thread’ of the essences of ambergris and vanilla, render it delicious. SIAL'OGOGUES. Medicines which increase the flow of saliva. Mercurials and pellitory of Spain belong to this class. SICK'NESS. Nausea and vomiting fre- quently arise from the use of improper food, and other articles which offend the stomach; at other times, it is symptomatic of some disease, as colic, cholera, dyspepsia, head affec- tions, incipient fever, &c.; in which case the primary affection should be attended to. “ Nausea lowers the pulse, contracts the small vessels, occasions cold perspiration, severe rigors, and trembling; and diminishes, as long as it lasts, the actions, and even the general powers, of life. The act of retching, and vomiting more especially, on the contrary, rouses rather than depresses, puts to flight all the preceding symptoms, and often restores the system to itself.” ' The best remedies or palliatives in these affections are effervescing saline draughts, either with or without the addition of a few drops of tincture of henbane or tincture of opium. A glass of genuine lemonade, iced, or a spoonful of crushed ice in a wine-glassful of mint water, is also very serviceable. The oxalate of cerium is said to be a most valuable remedy in the sickness of pregnancy. See Deaughts, Peegnancy, Sea Sickness, &c. SIFTTNG is to pulverulent substances what filtration is to liquids; but in this case the medium through which the substance passes is, usually, of a simpler and coarser descrip- tion. Sieves are commonly employed for the purpose, which are fitted with silk or brass- wire gauze for fine purposes, and horse hair cloth, or wire netting, for coarser ones. Drum sieves are such as are furnished with covers, and an enclosed space to receive the fine pow- der that passes through, by which dust and loss are prevented. SIGHT. See Vision. SIG'NATURES (Fac-similes of). These may be readily obtained as follows :— 1. Let the name be written on a piece of paper, and, while the ink is still wet, sprinkle over it some finely powdered gum arabic, then make a rim round it, and pour on it some fusible alloy in a liquid state. Impressions may be taken from the plates formed in this way, by means of printing ink and the copper- plate press.