POTASSA. 1114 tainecl; next dissolve, of carbonate of potassa, 50 lb., in the mother-liquor, and add enough water to make the whole a second time equal to 17 gall.; the remaining part of the opera- tion is then to he performed as before. This plan may be repeated again and again, for some time, provided the carbonate used is suf- ficiently pure. 4. (Ph. E.; Cartheuser’s process.) Take of carbonate of potassa, 6 oz.; carbonate (sesqul- carbonate) of ammonia, oz.; triturate them together, and, when reduced to a very fine i powder and perfectly mixed, make them into a stiff paste with a very little water; dry this, very carefully, at a heat not higher than 140° Fahr., until a fine powder, perfectly devoid of ammoniacal odour, be obtained, occasionally triturating the mass towards the end of the process. 5. (Henry and Guibourt.) To carbonate of potassa, 5 parts, dissolved in water, 10 pares, contained in a porcelain capsule set in a salt-water bath, add, gradually, of sesquicar- bonate of ammonia, 3 parts; slightly agitate the liquor until ammoniacal fames are per- ceived, then filter over a heated vessel, and set it aside to crystallize. The proportions recommended by Geiger are, of carbonate of potassa, 2 parts; sesquicarbonate of ammonia, 3 parts. The ammonia process (Nos. 4 or 5) answers well on the small scale. On the large scale, the fumes of ammonia may be recon- densed or collected, and again usefully em- ployed. 6. (Behrens.) Acetic acid is gradually and cautiously added to a strong solution of car- bonate of potassa, in the cold, as long as a pre- cipitate forms; bicarbonate of potassa is pre- cipitated, and is drained on a filter, strongly pressed in linen, washed with ice-cold water, and dried. The decanted liquor is a solution of pure acetate of potassa, and yields that salt on evaporation. An excellent iirocess on the small scale. 7. (Commercial.) From carbonate of po- tassa, in powder, made into a paste wdth water, and exposed for some time on shallow trays, in a chamber filled Avith an atmosphere of car- bonic acid gas, generated by the combustion of either coke or charcoal, and purified by being forced through a cistern of cold Avater; the resulting salt is next dissolved in the least possible quantity of water at the temperature of 120° Fahr., and the solution filtered and crystallized. Prop. It is soluble in 4 times its Aveight of of Avater at 60° Fahr.; is fixed in the air, but loses carbonic acid below the temperature of boiling Avater, and is wholly decomposed into a carbonate at a red heat. It possesses the general alkaline properties of carbonate of potassa, but in an inferior degree, having only a slightly alkaline taste, and, AAdien absolutely pure, not affecting the colour of turmeric. Pur. In a solution of pure bicarbonate of potassa a solution of corrosive sublimate merely causes an opalescence, or very slight Avhitel precipitate; if it contains carbonate of potassa, a brick-coloured precipitate is thrown down. “Crystals.” “From 100 gr. of this salt, 307 gr. of Avater and carbonic acid are expelled at' a red heat.” (Ph. L.) In other respects it may be tested like the carbonate (v;hich see). Uses, Bicarbonate of potassa is the most agreeable of all the salts of potassa, and is' much used as an antacid or absorbent, and fori making effervescing saline draughts. It ha^; also been successfully employed in rheuma-' tism, scurvy, gout, dyspepsia, and various oth?r diseases in which the use of potash is indicated. The dose is from 10 gr. to ^ dr. 20 gr. bicarbonate of potassa, in crystals, are equivalent to 14 gr. of crystallized citric acid, 15 gr. „ tartaric acid, and ^ oz. of lemon juice. CMo'Tate of Potassa. Syn. Potass.^: chlo- EAS (Ph. L. & D.), L. Prep. 1. Chlorine gai' is conducted by a Avide tube into a moderately strong and warm solution of caustic potassa oi carbonate of potassa, until the absorption of the gas ceases, and the alkali is completel} neutralized; the liquid is then kept at the boiling temperature for a feAv minutes, after which it is gently evaporated (if necessary) until a pellicle forms on the surface, and i:. next set aside, so as to cool very slowly; the crystals, thus obtained, are drained and care- fully washed on a filter, Avith ice-cold ivater, and are purified by re-solution and recrys- tallization. The product is chlorate of potassa The mother-liquor, A\hich contains much chlo ' ride of potassium mixed Avith some chlorate, is', either evaporated for more crystals (which are however, less pure than the first crop) or preserved for a future operation. Obs. The product of the above process is small, varying fi’om 10 to 45-^ of the weight of the potash consuined in it, according tc' the skill Avith which it is conducted; thi apparent loss of potassa arises from a larg( portion of it being converted into chloride of potassium, a salt of comparatively little value The following processes have been devisee principally Avith the view of preventing thi" waste, or of employing a cheaper salt of po tassa than the carbonate:— 2. (Gay-Lussac.) A solution of ‘ chloride lime’ is precipitated Avith a solulion of carbon ate of potassa, and the liquid, after filtration saturated with chlorine gas ; it is then evapo rated and crystallized as before. Dr. Ure ha suggested the substitution of sulphate o potash for the carbonate, by Avhich the proces' Avould be rendered very inexpensive. 3. (Graham.) Carbonate of potassa,! (= 69 parts of the dry, or 82 parts of th granidated carbonate); hydrate of lime, equiv. ( = 37 parts of dry fresh-slaked lime) both in poAvder; are mixed together, and ex