AMMONIA. 119 monia' by evolviny powerful ammoniacal fumes j when triturated with quicklime, or when | moistened with caustic potassa or soda:—2. It i is shown to be a ‘ hydrochlorate,^ or ‘ chlo- ride,’ by its solution, after the addition of a few drops of nitric acid, yielding, with a solution of nitrate of silver, a white curdy precipitate which turns black on exposure to light and air. Uses, 8(c. In the arts, chiefly in the coating and soldering of metals, and the preparation of alloys; in dyeing; and in the manufacture of ammonia-alum; also, in large quantities, to give a factitious pungency to snulf. In chemistry, as a reagent; and, owing to the cold produced during its solution, to form frigoritic mixtures. In medicine, it is chiefly I used externally, as a stimulant and resolvent or discutient; and occasionally, internally, as a iliuretic, stimulant, resolvent, alterative, tonic, &c., particularly in chronic inflammations of the mucous and serous membranes, in chronic glandular and visceral enlargements and in- durations, and in amenorrhcea. In rather large doses, frequently repeated, it is said to prove often highly beneficial in chronic enlargement and induration of the prostate gland (M. Rene Vanoye); and also in other like cases.—Dose. 5 to 20 gr., 3 or 4 times daily, either in powder or solution, mixed with some demulcent; as a discutient or resolvent ‘ lotion,’ 1 to 1^ oz., to i pint of water, either with or without 4 or fl. oz. of spirits or strong vinegar (often serviceable in chilblains); as a ' weak lotion,’ or collyrium’ or ‘injection,’ 1 to 4 dr., to water, 1 pint. In very large doses it is poi- sonous ; tlie treatment is emetics and mucila- ginous or demulcent drinks. Concluding Remarks, Patents, &^'c. The m(!- thods already described are those by which commercial hydrochlorate of ammonia is usually, if not almost entirely obtained; the various im- provements or modifications, from time to time introduced, affecting chiefly the minor details, ami the form or size of the apparatus and ma- chinery employed, and not the general princi- ples on which the processes are based. One of the most important of these has for its object i\\Q entire removal of the iron present in the crude salt, some of which, if it be not removed before sublimation, is volatilised and contaminates the ultimate product. To obviate this evil, Mr. Brewer passes a Jew bubbles of chlorine through the ‘ hot concentrated solution of the salt,’ previous to its crystallisation; by which the protochloride of iron is converted into the sesquichloride, which being acted on by the am- monia always present in the liquor, is precipi- tated as sesquioxide of iron, with the formation of a small additional quantity of sal ammoniac. The only precaution necessary is to avoid em- ploying more chlorine gas than is necessary to peroxidise the iron; as beyond this, a portion of the ammonia-salt itself is decomposed, with the evolution of nitrogen. The temperature of the liquor is kept up, after the action of the clilorine, until the whole of the brown floccu- lent oxide of iron has subsided, when it is at once decanted or filtered into the ‘ crystallisers.’ Another modification which has been adopted in two or three places, is to effect neutralisation of the ‘ crude ammoniacal liquor ’ by distilling it, and passing the ‘ fumes’ in at the lower end of a hollow shaft or column filled with coak, down which the acid trickles; the resulting ‘saline solution’ being received in proper cisterns, conveniently situated near the base of the column. In Mr. Spence’s method of obtaining ammo- nia-salts from ‘gas-liquor’ or ‘bone-spirit,’ a series of (usually four) cylindrical boilers, or reservoirs, so placed that the contents of each upper one may be drawn off into the one next be- low it, are employed. Each boiler has an exit- pipe which carries the vapour generated in it to that next above it, whilst that of the highest boiler passes off to a trunk containing the acid necessary to form the salt. The top boiler is connected with the reservoir of ‘gas-liquor’ (which is already mixed with milk of lime) by a ‘ charging pipe’ furnished with a stop-cock turned by a floating ball, so as to keep the surface of the liquor constantly at the same height. High-pressure steam enters the lower boiler, by which its ammonia is driven through the ‘ connecting pipe’ into the next boiler, and so on in succession, until it leaves the highest boiler in a concentrated state, and thus enters the ‘ a(;id-tank.’ When this last contains moderately strong hydrochloric or sulphuric acid, the resulting solution of htdeochloeate or SULPHATE OP AMMONIA (as the case may be^ is sufficiently concentrated to be at once ‘ run off’ into the ‘ crystallisers.’ As soon as the li- quor in the lowest boiler is exhausted of its ammonia, its contents are drawn off, and re- placed by that of the next boiler, which is fol- lowed by a like descent throughout the whole series. Among improvements having for their object the substitution of cheap chlorides'^ for the more expensive commercial acids, may be mentioned those of— 1. Mr. Laming {Patent dated 1843) who employs a strong solution of chloeide of CALCIUM for converting the ammonia of ‘ gas- liquor’ into the hydrochlorate. 2. Mr. Hills {Patent dated 1846) employs CHLOEIDE OF MAGNESIUM^ ill the saiue way; and by a subsequent patent, proposes to convert the ammonia eliminated in the distillation of coal into the hydrochlorate, by mixing chlo- eide OF MAGNESIUM with the coal in the ‘ retorts,’ or by introducing the ‘ chloride’ into a retort appropriated for the purpose. The heat dispels the chlorine of the chloride, in the form of hydrochloric acid, and this, uniting with the ‘ ammoniacal vapour,’ forms ‘ hydro- chlorate of ammonia,’ which is retained in the liquor of the condenser. From this ‘ liquor,’ 1 Particularly such chlorides as are the ‘waste or bye products’ of other manufactures. * Of the Epsom-salt works, &c.