91 ALG^—ALIZARI. I swell, becomes viscid and semi-fluid, and ge- ' nerally gives ofi* a disagreeable odour; whilst that of good flour merely suggests the smell of I hot and highly baked bread. 1 AL'GA (-ga). [L.] Sea-weed. A common j name of grass-wrack (‘ zostera marina ^—Linn.), i though not one of the algae. AL'GiE (al'-je). [L. pi.] Syn. Al'galS; I Alg^ (DC.), Al'gales (Lindl.), L.; Algtjes, [ Vaeech, Fr.; Alge, Meergeass, Seegrass, Ger. Sea-weeds. In botany^ an order of Thallogens living in water or very moist places, nourished throughout their whole sur- face by the medium in which they live, having no distinct axis of vegetation, and propagated by zoospores, coloured spores, or tetraspores. Linnaeus defines them—‘^plants, the roots, leaves, and stems of which are all in one.” The alg<B consist either of simple vesicles lying in mucus, or of articulated filaments, or of lobed fronds formed of uniform cellular tissue. Those that vegetate in salt water are popularly called I sea-weeds {fuel, L.) and la'ver {ulvce, L.); those found in fresh water, coneee'v^. One of ,their divisions (the Zoospermeee) compre- hends the lowest known forms of vegetable life, being merely adhering cells, emitting, at ma- turity, seeds or sporules having a distinct animal motion. In Oscillatorias, the whole plant twists and writhes spontaneously; and Zymenas actually copulate like animals. Some of the Algae possess great beauty. In the lower grades the colour is green; in the higher, red or purple. Prop., uses, Sfc. None of the Algae are poisonous. Several are nutritious, emollient, and demulcent, from containing mucilage (carrageenin), starch, sugar (mannite), and a little albumen; and are hence used as escu- lents. The ash from the dried weed, varies in different varieties from 9^ to fully 25^; and contains variable quantities of potassa, soda, lime, magnesia, iron, manganese, and silica, with sulphuric acid, phosphoric acid, chlorine, and a little iodine and bromine. (Schweitzer; Forchhammer; Godechens.) Sea-weeds, their charcoal, and their ashes, have been long re- garded as alterative and resolvent; and anti- phthisic virtues have been attributed to them by Laennec and others. They were formerly much given in scrofulous affections and glan- dular enlargements; but their use is now almost superseded by that of iodine and its preparations. Dr. Stenhouse has proposed some of the algm as furnishing an economical source of mannite. The sea algcB are used for manure; their ashes form kelp. See Acoty- LEDONS, CONFEEVALS, FiJCI, ThALLOGENS, &C. ALGAEO'BA. Syn. Ca"eob-teee, St. John’s Bread; Ceeato'nia SilTqtja, Linn. A le- guminous tree of southern Europe, Palestine, and part of Africa. Pods (algaeoba beans), used for food, and to improve the voice; they contain a sweetish, nutritious powder, and are supposed to have been the ‘ locusts ’ on which St. John fed in the wilderness; their decoction has been used as a pectoral in asthma and coughs. Algaroba or Algarovilla. The astringent pods of prosopis pallida, p. siliquastrum, and Inga Martha (South American trees), bruised and more or less agglutinated by the extractive exudation of the seed and husks. They are used in tanning, for which purpose they have been strongly recommended ; indeed that of Chili, and of Santa Martha (New Carthagena), is said to possess “four times the power of good oak bark ” (Ure); and in dyeing, are only inferior to oak-galls. ALIENA'TION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Aliena!Ho, L. See Aberration (of mind). Insanity, &c. ALTMENT [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Alimen'tijm, L.; Nahrtjng, Speise, Ger. Food; nutri- ment ; anything which nourishes or supports an organic body. See Food, Nutrition, &c. ALIMENT'ARY. Syn. Alimenta"rius, L. Alimentaire, Fr. j zur Naheijng gehoeig, Ger. Pertaining to food or aliment; nutri- mental; nourishing. Alimentary Canal'. Syn. Alimentary dxtct; Cana'lis alimenta"eius, L. In anatomy, the cavity in the bodies of animals into which the food is taken for the purpose of being digested; the whole passage or conduit extending from the mouth to the anus. In some of the lower animals this is a simple cavity, with only one opening; when the same aperture which ad- mits the food also gives egress to the excre- mentitious matter. In others, it is a true canal with both a mouth and an outlet. An- other step, and we find this canal is divided into a stomach and intestines. In the higher grades, a mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus precede the stomach. Birds have one or two sacculi or crops added to the oesophagus. The stomach of the ruminants consists of four sacs or parts, each of which may be regarded as a separate stomach; that of the bottle-nose whale con- tains no less than seven of such sacs. The part below the stomach, forming the intestines, is also variously subdivided, complicated, and connected. In man, these subdivisions are termed — dhode'nhm, jejh'ntjm, il'etjm, c^e'chm, co'lon, and rect'fm ; the lower end or orifice of the last being called the a'nijs. The existence of an alimentary canal is said to be the only true characteristic of an animal. Plants have no common receptacle for their food, nor canal for carrying away effete matter; but every animal, however low in the scale of being, possesses an internal cavity which serves it as a stomach. Alimentary Sub'stances. Syn. Aliments; Mate"ria alimenta"eia, L. Substances em- ployed as food. See Aliment, Food, &c. ALIMENTA'TION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ali- menta'tio, L.; Nahehaftigkeit, Ger. The act, process, pow'er, or state of nourishing, or being nourished. See Food, Nutrition, &c. AL'IZARI. [Tur., ali-zari.'\ The commer- cial name of madder in the Levant.