435 CHLOROHYDROSALICYLIC ACID—CHLOROMETRY. The treatment of asphyxia from chloroform ig—the horizontal position, cold affusion to the head and spine, artificial respiration, and, if possible, either the application of electricity, or the inhalation of protoxide of nitrogen or oxygen gas, largely diluted with atmospheric air. Concluding Remarks. The preparation of chloroform is not unattended with danger, and frequently miscarries in careless or inex- perienced hands. This arises chiefiy from the ' violent reaction which immediately follows the application of the heat. On the common plan there is great danger of explosion, or of I the liquid in the still being forced over into i the receiver, owing to the extraordinary rapidity with which the vapours are elimi- I nated, and the ingredients, in consequence, : swell up. The method we have successfully , adopted on the large scale, is to employ a I very broad and shallow capsule-shaped still, having a flat rim round it, with a head or capital furnished with a corresponding rim at I its lower part. In use, a flat, endless hand of i vulcanized India rubber is placed between the two rims, which are then held air-tight I together by means of small, iron clamps. The application of heat is also delayed for some time after the admixture of the spirit with : the other ingredients, and the process is inter- I rupted as soon as the first violence of the reaction has subsided, by which time the I whole product of chloroform will have passed over into the receiver. If the distillation is continued beyond this point, the remaining ; product is water. On the small scale, a very I capacious, flat-bottomed retort or cucurbit I should be employed. A similar refrigeratory I may be used to that noticed under ether. CHLOROHYDROSALICYLTC ACID. Syn. Chloeo-salicyl'otjs acid. By acting on sali- \ cylous acid (hydride of salicyle) with chlorine, in the cold, and purifying the product by , solution and crystallization in hot alcohol. 1 Prop., &fc. Tabular crystals, nearly colour- less, with a pearly lustre; insoluble in water; I freely soluble in alcohol, ether, and alkaline lyes; fusible and volatile, the fumes condensing under the form of needle-like crystals of snowy-whiteness; taste, hot and pungent; odour, peculiar and disagreeable. Its salts are now called chlorosalicylites. They may be readily prepared by direct solution of the base in the acid, or by double decomposition. Chlorosalicylite of potassa occurs in small, red, crystalline scales, which are very soluble in water; chlorosalicylite of baryta forms an insoluble, crystalline, yellow powder. CHLOROHYPONI'TRIC ACID and CHLORO- NI'TROUS ACID are two peculiar compounds, supposed to be formed when nitric acid and hydrochloric acid are mixed. CHLOROKIN'ONE. When kinic acid is submitted to distillation, with an ordinary chlorine mixture, an acid liquor (formic acid) ] and a crystalline sublimate are obtained. The | latter is a mixture of chlorokinone, hichloro- kinone, trichlorokinone, and tetrachlorokinone (chloeanile). They are all yellow, crystalline substances, which can be separated only with great difficulty. CHLOROM'ETER. Syn. Chloeim'etee. An instrument or apparatus employed in chlo- rometry. The chlorometers in common use are graduated measures and tubes precisely similar to those used in acidimetey, alkali- metry, &c. CHLOROM'ETRY. Syn. Chlorim'etey. The estimation of the available chlorine in the bleaching powder of commerce, which is valued and sold in this country by its per- centage of that element. The plans generally adopted are applicable to the so-called chlorides of soda and potassa, as well as to the ordinary bleaching powder, chloride of lime. Most of them depend on the oxidizing effect of water when undergoing decomposition through the action of chlorine. 1. (Dalton’s Process.) The test-solution is prepared as follows -.—Pure protosulphate of iron (previously dried by strong pressure between the folds of cloth or bibulous paper), 78 grs., are dissolved in distilled water, 2 oz., and a few drops of hydrochloric or sulphuric acid added. This quantity of protosulphate requires for complete peroxidation just the quantity of oxygen liberated by 10 gr. of chlorine; in other words, the solution exhibits the indirect effect produced by exactly 10 gr. of the bleaching element. Exactly 50 gr. of the sample of chloride of lime to be examined are next weighed, and well mixed in a glass or wedgwood mortar with tepid water, 2 oz.; and the mixture poured into a graduated tube or chlorometer.^ The tube is next filled up to 0, or zero, with the washings of the mortar, and the whole well mixed, by placing the thumb over the orifice and shaking it. The solution of chloride of lime, thus formed, is next gradually and cautiously added to the solution of sulphate of iron, previously noticed, until the latter is completely peroxidized, which may be known when it ceases to be affected by a solution of red prussiate of potash. When a drop of the latter test, placed upon a white plate, ceases to give a blue colour on being touched with the point of a glass stirrer or rod dipped in the liquor under examination, enough of the solution of the chloride has been added. The number of measures thus consumed must now he carefully read off from the graduated scale of the chlorometer, from which the richness of the sample may be estimated as follows:— As 100 of the chlorometer divisions contain exactly 50 gr. of the chloride under exami- nation, each measure will contain only ^ gr., and, consequently, the number of measures consumed will represent half that number of grains of the chloride examined; and the weight of the chloride thus used will have 1 1 See engravings oa pages 22, 33, and 101.