BALLS—BALSAM. 257 in of ivory-black (very finely powdered), 4 oz.; lamp-black (sifted), 3 oz.; gum arable and sugar-candy, of each (in very fine powder), 2 Foz.; and, when thoroughly mixed and partly j^cold, pour the___composition into tin or leaden ■ moulds. 2. To the last add of rosin, 3 oz. ; oil of tur- i pentine, 2 oz. j 3. Hard suet and bees’ wax, of each, 4 oz. ; powdered gum, sugar candy, and Venice tur- pentine, of each, 1 oz.; ivory-black and lamp- black, of each, 2 oz.; as before. 4. Sueijin^fees’ wax, of each, 4 oz. ; lamp- black and brown sugar, of each, 8 oz.; common I size, 5 oz. ,* melt together and stir until incor- I porated. B Uses, &fc. Employed to black leather, and I more especially by shoemakers for the edges I of the soles; the ball being first rubbed on, I and the part afterwards smoothed over with a B burnisher or polished iron-tool gently heated. I Also used by artists to copy inscriptions, basso I relievos, &c. To produce a good article, the I gum, colouring matter, and sugar, must be in the state of extremely fine powder, and the I mixture very carefully made ; no lumps being Ij left. Some persons dissolve the gum in a little I water, and then stir the mixture over the fire until it acquires the proper consistence for moulding (as in No. 4. above); but the first is accounted the best method. Horse Balls. See Hoeses, Veteeinaey MEDICINE, &C. Mar'tial Balls. Syn. Glob'tjli maetia'les, L. Prep. 1. Those of the P. Cod. consist of tartarised iron mixed with aromatics, and made up into small globular masses, o 2. (Boules de Nancy.) Equal parts ofj i iron-filings and 7'ed tartar, in fine powder, made n into balls with proof spirit or brandy. Both * i are u%ed as chalybeate tonics, either in the I form of pills or dissolved in hot water. Seldom I employed in England. I Poul'try Balls. See Poultey. Scent Balls. See Pastils (Toilet), Pee- Ieumeey, Pomambea, Scents, &c. Scour'ing Balls. Syn. Beeech'es balls. Clothes b., Caepet b., &c. Prep. 1. Curd soap (sliced), 1 lb. ; water, 2 oz.; melt in a water- bath, or a glue-pot, and. when cooled a little, add ox-gall and oil of turpentine, of each, 2^- oz.; mix well and roll or mould the mass into balls or cakes. 2. Fuller’s earth, 2 lb.; curd-soap, 1 lb.; 3 beat to a stiff paste with ox-gall, q. s. I 3. Soft soap and fuller’s earth, equal parts, ! beat up with a little oil of turpentine, and I either with or without a little essence of ” lemons.— Obs. The above are used to remove C-) paint, grease, and dirt from cloth, carpets, H^c. (■ The spot, first moistened with hot water, is I rubbed with the cake, and allowed to soak a few minutes, or to become nearly dry, when it is well rubbed with a little warm water and fe a brush or piece of woollen cloth, and after- ‘ wards rinsed in clean water, and finally rubbed dry and smoothed off with a piece of dry cloth or a dry brush. The last formula pro- duces the composition so commonly vended about the streets of London in penny cakes. 4. Whiting and pipe-clay, equal parts j water, q. s. Used for soldiers’ belts, trousers, &c. 5. Pipe clay, 2 lb. ; fuller’s earth, 1 lb. ; whiting, ^ lb. ; water, q. s. 6. Bath brick, 1 lb.; pipe clay, 2 lb.; soft soap, \ lb.; ox-gall, ^ pint. 7. To the last add of pumice-stone, in very fine powder, 6 oz.— Obs. The last four are used for cloth and leather, especially for drab and light-coloured coats, trousers, leather breeches, belts, and gloves. Rose pink, yellow ochre, umber, Irish slate, or other like colouring matter may be added to produce any desired tint. White pepper, cloves, &c., are also occa- sionally added to drive away moths and insects; and orris root, or essence of bergamot or of lemon grass, as perfume. Sweet Balls. See Scent Balls (ante). Tan Balls. The muddy sediment of tan- pits made into balls or lumps.— Used by the poor for summer fuel. Wash Balls. See Savonettes, Soap, &c. BALM (bahm). Syn. Bal'samdm, L. ; Baume, Er.; Balsam, Ger. Primarily, bal- sam (of which it is a contraction); formerly and still popularly applied to anything assumed to be soothing, healing, or genial in its action, particularly if also aromatic or fragrant; but chiefly to medicines and liqueurs, supposed to possess these properties. See Balsams, Li- QUEUES, Qhack Medicines, &c. Balm. Syn. Com'mon balm, Gae'den b. ; Melis'sa, ii.; Badme, Melisse, Fr. The melis'sa ofiicina'lis (Linn.), an aromatic peren- nial herb, a native of the south of Europe, but commonly cultivated in our gardens. It is reputed to be diaphoretic, diuretic, emmena- gogue, exhilarating, nervine, and stomachic; and under the form of infusion (balm-tea) has long been a popular remedy in hypochon- driacal, hysterical, and nervous affections, and in amenorrhcea and chlorosis. It is still some- times ordered by the faculty, as a ‘ drink ’ in fevers and in hypochondriasis. BAL'SAM (bawl'-sam j -sumJ§—Knowles, Walker). [Eng., Ger.] Syn. Bal'samdm (bal'-), L.; Baume, Fr. Originally, any strong-scented oleo-resinous vegetable juice or exudation, of about the fluidity of treacle, and supposed to possess medicinal virtues. In modern chemistry and pharmacy, any vegetable production which is either semi-liquid, or which naturally becomes concrete, and wbich contains either benzoic acid, or cinnamic acid, combined with resin and aromatic essential oil. Several of the substances popularly termed balsams contain no benzoic acid, and are con- sequently now classed with the turpentines. This distinction, however, is far from being universally adopted, and a late high authority defines balsams to be “ Exudations from plants.