454 CINNAMON—CITRIC ACID. liquid obtained by distilling cinnamic acid with an excess of quicklime or baryta. Liquid storax treated in the same manner yields a like product. CIN'NAMON. Syn. Cinnamo'mum, L. The bark of Cinnamomum zeylanicum, or Laurus cinnamomum (Linn.). It consists chiefly of the inner bark, and the best is obtained from branches about three years old. “ Slender, closely rolled, the smaller quills being en- closed in the larger ones.^* (Ph. L.) Oil of cinnamon (o'letjm cinnamo'mi) is officinal in the Pharmacopoeias. Obs. From the high price of this drug it has become a general practice to substitute the bark of cassia (cas'sia, cor'tex cinnamo'- MTJM cassia) for it, which so closely resem- bles it in flavour, that the uninitiated regard them as the same. Cassia is, however, not only thicker and coarser than cinnamon, but its fracture is short and resinous, and its fla- vour is more biting and hot, whilst it lacks the peculiar sweetish taste of cinnamon. The thickness of cinnamon seldom exceeds that of good drawing paper. The same remarks also apply to the oil and powder. In pharmacy it is, unfortunately, a general practice to em- ploy cassia and its preparations whenever those of cinnamon are ordered. Both these drugs are wholesome aromatics. The prin- cipal consumers of cinnamon are the chocolate makers of France, Spain, Italy, and Mexico. The Germans, Turks, and Russians, prefer chocolate flavoured with cassia. “ Some cin- namon, sent to Constantinople by mistake, proved unsaleable at any price, whilst cassia, worth about sixpence per pound, was in great request.” (Pereira.) CIN'NAMYLE. The hypothetical radical of cinnamic acid and the other compounds of the cinnamyl'Series. CISSAM'PELINE. Syn. Pel'osine. An uncrystallizable alkaloid discovered by Wiggers in Cissampelos Pareira, or Pareira brava. It is soluble in ether and in acetic acid; is pre- cipitated by carbonate of soda; and is highly basic. CITRACONIC ACID. Formed by the action of heat on aconitic acid. It has not been applied to any practical purpose. CIT'RATE. Syn. Cit'eas, L. A salt formed of citric acid and a base. The citrates are very numerous, the acid forming three classes of salts, which contain respectively—3 equivalents of a metallic oxide; 2 eq. of oxide with 1 eq. of basic water; and 1 eq. of oxide with 2 eq. of basic water; besides true basic salts, in which the water of crystallization is, perhaps, replaced by a metallic oxide. Citrate and ammonio-citrate of iron are elegant medi- cinal preparations. These and other important citrates are described under the bases. Prep. All the ordinary citrates may be made by adding either the hydrate, or oxide, or the carbonate of the base, to a solution of the acid in tvaier, until the latter is neutralized, when crystals may generally be obtained by gentle evaporation. Prop., Tests, 8fc. The citrates of the alkalies are more or less soluble and crystal- i lizable; those of baeyta, bteontia, lime, LEAD, and BiLVEE, are insoluble. When heated, they froth, blacken, and are decom- posed. They give a white precipitate with acetate of lead in excess, sparingly soluble in ammonia, but readily soluble in citrate of ammonia; and also a white precipitate with nitrate of silver, which, by the application of heat, froths up, deflagrates, and leaves an abundant ash, which, on increasing the heat, becomes pure silver. CITRIC ACID. Syn. Acid of lemons, CONCEETE A. OP L.; Ac'IDUM LIMO'nIS, AcI- DUM cit'eicum (Ph. L. E. D. & U. S.), L.; Acide citeique, Fr.; Citeonensauee, Ger. An acid peculiar to the vegetable kingdom. It is obtained in large quantity from the juice of lemons, and other fruits of the genus Citrus; it is found in gooseberries, currants, &c., in conjunction with malic acid. Prep. The citric acid manufacture consists in separating it from the mucilage, sugar, and other foreign matter with which it is combined in the juice of lemons and limes. 1. (Ph. L. 1836,—Scheele’s process.) Take of lemon juice, 4 pints; prepared chalk, 4^ oz. ; diluted sulphuric acid, 27i fl. oz.; distilled water, 2 pints. Add the chalk by degrees to the lemon juice, made hot, and mix well; set by, that the powder may subside, and, after- wards, pour oft’ the supernatant liquor. Wash the precipitated citeate of lime frequently Avith warm water; then pour \xpon it the diluted sulphuric acid, mixed with the dis- tilled water, and boil the whole for 15 minutes, in glass, stoneware, or lead; press the mixture strongly through a linen cloth, and filter it. Evaporate the filtered liquor with a gentle heat, and set it aside, that crystals may form. To obtain the crystals pure, dissolve them in water a second and a third time; filter each solution, evaporate, and set it apart to crys- 2. (Ph. L. 1851.) Merely placed in the materia medica. 3. (Ph. E. 1841.) Similar to that of Ph. L. 1836, except that the washed citrate of lime is ordered to be squeezed in a powerful press, and that the filtered solution of citric acid is ordered to be tested with nitrate of baryta, and if “the precipitate is not nearly all soluble in nitric acid, to add a little citrate of lime to the whole liquor, till it stands this test.” 4. (Ph. D. 1826.) Same as that of Ph. L. 1836. 5. (Ph. D. 1851.) Included in the materia medica. 6. (Dr. Price.) The crude juice is saturated with ammonia, potassa, or soda (carbonates), or with the ammoniacal product distilled from gas liquor; chalk, 150 parts, or hydrate of