403 CASKS—CASSIA. genous principle of milk. Cheese made from skimmed milk and well pressed, is nearly pure caseine. (Liebig.) Prep. 1. The curd obtained by adding dilute sulphuric acid to milk is v/ell washed t and dissolved in carbonate of soda. It is I allowed to stand for twenty-four hours, to let the oil rise to the surface, and when this is [ properly skimmed off, the caseine is precipi- I tated by an acid. The process is repeated a j second time, and the coagulum digested with j alcohol and ether, and dried. With all these ! precautions the caseine still contains some j saline matter which cannot be removed, j 2. Milk is coagulated by hydrochloric acid, I and the curd then well washed with dilute j acid, and finally with pure water. The curd so prepared is dissolved by digestion at 110° Fahr., with a large quantity of water; the solution, after filtration, is coagulated with * carbonade of ammonia ; the coagulum is washed ; with water, ether, and alcohol, and finally dried. Prop., Sfc. Coagulated caseine is readily dissolved by the alkalies and alkaline carbonates. The most remarkable property of caseine is its coagulation by certain animal membranes, as in the process of cheese-making, with rennet. See Lactaeine. CASKS. The care and management of casks is an important affair in a large establishment. It is found that they last longest when “stored^* either in a dry situation, or in one uniformly very moist. Continual variations from the one to the other speedily rot them. As soon as casks are emptied they should be bunged down quite air-tight, with as much care as if they were full, by which means they I will be preserved both sweet and sound. I Should any of the hoops become loose, they i should be immediately driven up tight, which will at once prevent the liability of their being lost or misplaced, as w^ell as the casks “fouling” or becoming musty from the admission of air. For this purpose, those out of use should be occasionally “hauled over” and examined. Good casks are very expensive articles. Numerous plans are adopted for cleaning- and puEiEYiNa casks, among which are the following:— 1. Wash them well out with oil of vitriol, diluted with an equal weight of water. 2. Wash them first with a little chloride of lime and warm water, and then with water soured with oil of vitriol. I 3. Match them with sulphur, or with sul~ i phur mixed with a little saltpetre. i 4. Unhead them and whitewash them with fresh rhilTc of lime, made pretty strong. This I plan is commonly followed for brewer’s vats. I 5. Remove the heads, and char the insides I of the staves by the aid of a fire of shavings, I kindled within them. 6. A simpler, safer, and more effectual ' method of charring them than the last, is to I wash the dry casks out with strong oil of vitriol (sp. gr. 1‘854). This not only purifies the surface of the staves, but penetrates into all the cracks, some of which might escape the action of the fire. 7. Steam has lately been applied to the in- sides of casks, with great advantage. High- pressure steam is driven in at the bung-hole, at the same time that the cask is violently agitated (a heavy chain having been pre- viously put into it), until all the dirt and bad smell is removed. 8. A lye of pearlash or soda, mixed with milk of lime, as well as strong hot brine, and other similar liquors, have been adopted by some persons, and are highly spoken of. 9. The coopers boil the staves for gin casks in a strong lye of alum before placing them together, to prevent their colouring the spirit, but washing with oil of vitriol is a better plan. 10. Some persons fill musty casks with water, and add 3 or 4 lb. of coarsely powdered fresh-burnt charcoal, and agitate well for a few days. Obs. In all the above processes the greatest care must be taken to scald, or soak and well rinse out the casks after the treatment de- scribed. See Beewing Utensils, Matches, &c. CAS'SAREEP. The expressed juice of the sweet cassava, concentrated by heat and fla- voured with aromatics. It is used in the West Indies as a condiment. (See below.) CAS'SAVA. A poisonous shrub cultivated in the West Indies, and in many parts of South America, for sake of the starchy matter con- tained in its roots. It belongs to the natural order Euphorbiacece, and is known to botanists under the names Manihot utilissima (Pohl), Janipha manihot (Humboldt), and Jatropha manihot (Linn.), the former being that now generally adopted. The name “ bitter cas- sava” is commonly given to it in the West Indies, to distinguish it from another species of the same genus, Manihot aipi (Pohl), which, from having no poisonous properties, is named the “ sweet cassava.” The roots of both species yield the starch, but those of the poisonous plant are the richer. The roots, after being well washed and scraped, are rasped or grated, and the pulp thus formed is subjected to strong pressure, to expel the poisonous juice which it contains. The com- pressed pulp is next thoroughly dried over the fire, being constantly stirred the whole time, by which any remaining portion of the noxious juice is either volatilized or decomposed. It now forms cassava meal. When it is fur- ther prepared by grinding, it forms tine cas- sava MEAL, or CASSAVA ELOUE. When the compressed pulp is baked on a hot plate, it forms CASSAVA beead or cassava cakes, the flavour of which greatly resembles that of Scotch oat-cakes. See Tapioca. CAS'SIA. In botany, a genus of the natural order Leguminosce, including several important