911 METHYLAMINE—MICROSCOPE. j and furnished with a tube to carry off the ' incondensable gases; the distillate is collected I and rectified several times from a mixture of ! chloride of calcium and litharge, the product not being collected the last time until the I boiling-point rises to 150° Fahr. A colour- 1 less, neutral liquid, feebly odorous, and burn- j ing with a yellow flame; its vapour, heated I to 300° Fahr., explodes with tremendous vio- lence. Sp. gr. 1*182. I Ox'alate of Oxide of Methyl. Syn. Oxalic I METHYL-ETHEE. Fi’om oxalic add, oil of ; vitriol, and pyroxrjlic spirit, equal weights, dis- ! tilled together; on the liquid distillate being I exposed to the air, part evaporates, and the j remainder forms crystalline plates; these, ! after pressure between the folds of porous I paper, are rectified from a little oxide of lead. It melts at 124° Fahr., and then resembles I ordinary oxalic ETHEE ; boils at 322° Fahr. It is soluble in alcohol, ether, and pyroxylic 1 spirit, and in water with decomposition. With ] dry ammonia a white solid substance (oxame- i tuylane), which crystallizes from alcohol in j pearly cubes. I SuFphate of Oxide of Methyl. Sijn. Sul- ; niiJEic METHYL-ETHEE. This is obtained by I distilling pyroxylic spirit, 1 part, with strong I oil of vitriol, 8 parts; the distillate is agitated I with water, and rectified from caustic baryta ' (in powder). It is an oily liquid, smelling I strongly of garlic, and boiling at 370° Fahr.; I sp. gr. 1*324. It is decomposed by water, j slowly in the cold, but rapidly and with vio- I lence at 212°, tyeoxylic spieit and shl- I PHOMETHYLIC ACID being formed. The caustic earths and alkalies also decompose it, ' with the production of pyeoxylic spieit and I SULPHOMETHYLATE of the base. I METHYL'AMINE. Syn. Methyl-ammoxia. I A gaseous substance prepared by distilling I cyanate of oxide of methyl with a concentrate \ boiling solution of hydrate of potassa, and col- I lecting the product in a receiver surrounded ' with ice; the distillate is saturated with hy- . drochloric acid, and evaporated to dryness; the crystalline residuum (chloeide op me- I tiiyl-ammonium) yields pure gaseous methyl- amine by distillation along with quicklime, which must be collected over mercury. . Methylamine has a slight fishy odour, and I is inflammable, by which it is clistinguished I from ammonia. Its most remarkable property is its extreme solubility in water, which, at ' 53*5° Fahr., absorbs above 1000 times its own bulk of this gas. It is liquid at —18° Fahr., ' jvnd has the sp. gr. 1*08. Bimethylamine ' (bimcthyl-ammonia), teimethylamine (tri- I methyl-ammonia), hydeated oxide of tetea- JIETIIYL-AMMONIUM, METHYLAMIXE UEEA, and other compounds similar to those formed by ETiiYLAinxE, have been obtained. 1 ME'THYL-E'THER. See Oxide of Methyl ' (above). METHYLATED SPIRIT. Sec Spirit. 1 MEZE'REON. Syn. Garou; Mezeeeum —Ph. L. E. & D. The bark of the root of Daphne Mezereum,^^ or spurge olive. (Ph. L.) It is employed as a sudorific and alterative, in syphilis, rheumatism, scrofula, and chronic cutaneous diseases, usually in conjunction with sarsaparilla. It has also been used as a mas- ticatory, in toothache, paralysis of the tongue, &c. On the Continent it is used as a vesicant. For this purpose it is softened by soaking it in hot vinegar, and is then bound on the part, and renewed after intervals of some hours, until vesication is produced. MICE. See Rats. MICROCOS'MIC SALT. Syn. Teibasic PHOSPHATE OF SODA AXD AMMOXIA. Prep. 1. Phosphates of soda and ammonia, equal parts; water, q. s.; dissolve separately, mix the solutions, evaporate, and crystallize. A slight excess of phosphate of ammonia aids the crystallization. 2. (Fownes.) Phosphate of soda, 6 parts; water, 2 parts; liquefy by heat, and add of sal ammoniac (in powder), 1 part; common salt separates, and after its removal the liquid is concentrated so that crystals may form. Used as a flux in blowpipe assays. MI'CROSCOPE. The value of the micro- scope in chemistry and the collateral sciences is now so generally acknov;ledged, that it would be folly to do more than merely to allude to the subject here. In the coMPorxD miceoscope, which has quite superseded the ^ simple microscope’ as an instrument of research, the object is magnified in the first instance by the object-glass, and then remagnified by the eye-piece. It follows, therefore, that the magnifying power of the instrument may be increased either by increas- ing the power of the object-glass or that of the eye-piece. It must be borne in mind, how- ever, that in increasing the power of the eye- piece, we do not magnify the object itself in a greater degree, but simply increase the image of the object formed by the object-glass. Any imperfections which may exist in the latter are thus greatly increased. At first the great drawback to the use of the compound micro- scope was its deficiency in achromatism; but the researches of Mr. Lester and Dr. Goring led to the achromatizing of the object-glass, which was the first of the rapid strides to- wards perfection made by this instrument during the last twenty years. The two most useful object-glasses are the ‘ quarter-inch,^ which should magnify from 200 to 220 dia- meters, and the ‘ inchj which should magnify from 30 to 40 diameters. The definition of these glasses should be good, and they should transmit plenty of light. Any lines in a structure examined by them sliould appear sharp and distinct, and there should be no coloured fringes around the object. It is of great importance that the object-glasses are kept perfectly free from dust. A lew shreds of wash-leather of the finest quality should be kept ill a pill-box for cleaning them. Before