AMMONIA. 157 Uses, <^c. The j^rs^ is used chiefly as a test for iron; both are occasionally employed as anti-spasmodics. The formula of the Ph. Bav. is similar to that of the P. C., but the salt is crystallised. Sulphate of Ammonia. Syn. Sulphate op ox'iDE OP ammo"nium, Oxysul'phide op AMMONIUM, OxTSUl'phION OP A., HyDEOSUL'- PAMIDE ; AMMO"NIiE SUL'PHAS, L. ; SULPATE d’ammoniaque, Fr.; Schwepelsauee am- monium SALZ, Ger.; Glauber’s Seceet SALTf, G.seceet sal-ammoniac t, Sal ammoni'acum SECEE'TUM Glaube"ei f, &c. Crude sulphate of ammonia exists in considerable quantity in the soot from pit-coal; and it is obtained, as a secondary product, from the ammoniacal liquor of gas-works and animal charcoal manufactories. These last are its chief sources. It is also found native, associated with sal ammoniac, in the neighbourhood of volcanoes, under the name of ‘ mascagnine* or ‘ massagnine.’ Prep. 1. (Medicinal.) Saturate dilute sul- phuric acid with sesquicarbonate of ammonia, in slight excess; filter, gently evaporate, and crystallise. 2. (Commercial.) From gas-liquor or bone- spirit, saturated with weak oil of vitriol, and the clear portion of the liquid, after repose, decanted, concentrated by rapid evaporation, and crystallised, in the manner noticed under the HYDEOCHLOEATE. Prop. Crystals, long, flattened, six-sided prisms; soluble in 2 parts of cold, and 1 of boiling water; fuses, with loss of one atom of water, at about 280° Fahr.; and is volatilised, with entire decomposition, at about 535°. Even its solution, by long boiling, becomes acid from loss of ammonia. The anhydrous salt does not exist. Uses, Sfc. Pure sulphate of ammonia is diuretic, aperient, resolvent, and stimulant. —Pose. 10 to 30 gr. It is now seldom em- ployed in medicine. The crude sulphate is principally used in the preparation of sal ammoniac and sesquicarbonate of ammonia, and for manure. “A mixture of lOg of this sulphate with 20g^ of bone-dust, some gypsum, and farm-yard manure,^’ forms “ a very fertil- ising compost, applicable to a great variety of soils” (Ure); and we may add—greatly superior to a very large portion of what is now so commonly vended under the name of ‘ guano.’ Concluding Remarks, Patents, The manufacture of sulphate of ammonia, on the large scale, has been unavoidably explained in treating on the salts of that base already no- ticed. All that is necessary, is to saturate with sulphuric acid the * solution of ammonia,’ crude or otherwise, and obtained in any man- ner; and then to evaporate the solution until the salt crystallises out. At other times, how- ever, instead of adding the acid to the ‘ammo- niacal liquor,’ the latter, either at once, or after treatment with lime, is submitted to distilla- tion,^ and the ‘ evolved alkaline vapour ’ is passed into the acid (previously somewhat diluted), contained in a large receiver or cistern, or a series of them; the salt being obtained from the resulting ‘saline solution’ in the usual manner. By resolution and a second crys- tallisation, the sulphate is generally obtained sufficiently pure for all commercial purposes; but when the salt is intended for use as ‘ ma- nure,’ or (unless very rough) for conversion into sal ammoniac, this need not be had recourse to. Among modifications and improvements, not previously noticed, may be mentioned— 1. That of Dr. Richardson {Patent dated Jan., 1850), who mixes sulphate of mag- nesia with the ‘ crude ammoniacal liquor’ and thus forms a ‘ double sulphate of magnesia and ammonia,’ from which he obtains the sulphate OF AMMONIA by Sublimation. 2. That of Michiel {Patent dated April, 1850), who prepares sulphate of ammonia by means of OXYSULPHATE OF LEAD obtained by roasting galena (sulphuret of lead), by exposing it in a crushed state and thin layers, for 2 or 3 hours, to the heat of a reverberatory furnace. The resulting mixture of sulphate and oxide of lead is reduced to the state of coarse powder, and ‘ well worked up ’ with the ammoniacal liquor, when SULPHATE of AMMONIA and ‘ sulphuret ’ and ‘ carbonate of lead ’ are produced by the mutual reaction of the elements present. The first is removed by treatment with water ; and the residuum serves for the manufacture of lead compounds, or may be reduced to the metallic state by fusion in the usual manner. 3. That of Mr. Laming {Patent dated Aug., 1852), in which a stream of sulphueous acid GAS is transmitted through the liquor contain- ing the ‘ ammonia,’ either in the free state or as carbonate, by which sulphite of ammonia is formed. This salt he oxidises, and thus con- verts into the sulphate of ammonia, by agitation and free exposure to the air. Sulphate of ammonia, like the hydrochlorate, may also be obtained by saturating ‘ stale urine’ with the acid, and subsequent evaporation and crystallisation. See Ammonia, Caebonate, Hydeochloeate, and Liquoe of Ammonia, Manuees, &c. Sul'phite of Ammonia. S,\jn. Ammo”ni^ sul'- PHIS, L. Prepared by passing sulphurous acid gas into a solution of ammonia or of its car- bonate. It is crystallisable and very soluble in water. ' Tar'trates of Ammonia. Of these there are i two:— 1. Tar'trate of Ammonia. Syn. Neu'teal TAETEATE OF AMMONIA, T. OF OX'iDE OF AM- mo"nium ; Ammo”nle tae'teas, L. Prep. Saturate a solution of crystallised tartaric acid, 150 gr.; with sesquicarbonate of ammonia, 118 gr.; and either evaporate the solution at a ^ For this purpose Coffey’s ammonia-still, or the methods of Spence or Watson, may be employed. TheA/‘'S^ is, how- ever, the most convenient and economical, and that which is now generally preferred on the large scale.