938 NICKEL SILVER-^NIPPLES. Sul'phate of Nickel. Syn. Nickelii sttl- PHAS, L. From carbonate or oxide of nickel and dilute sulphuric acid, as the acetate. Green prismatic crystals, soluble in 3 parts of cold water. With the sulphates of potassa and ammonia, it forms beautiful double salts. NICK'EL SIL'VER. See German Silver. NIC'OTINE. Syn. Nicotia, Nicotina, L. A volatile base, discovered by Reiman and Posselt in tobacco. Prep. (Ortigosa.) Infuse tobacco leaves for 24 hours in water acidulated with sulphuric acid, strain, evaporate to a syrup, add g of its volume of a strong solution of potassa, and distil in an oil bath at 288°, occasionally add- ing a little water to assist the process, and prevent the too great concentration of the so- lution of potassa in the retort; next saturate the distilled product with oxalic acid, evapo- rate to dryness, digest in boiling absolute alco- hol, evaporate the resulting tincture to a syrup, and decompose the oxalate of nicotine thus ob- tained by adding caustic potassa to it in a close vessel, and agitate the mass with ether, repeating the process with more ether until all the nicotine is dissolved out; lastly, distil the mixed ethereal solutions in an oil bath. At first ether comes over, then water, and, lastly, nicotine, which, towards the end of the process, assumes a yellowish tint. 2. (Schloesing.) This chiefly differs from the preceding by directing the concluding dis- tillation to be conducted in a retort, by the heat of an oil hath, at the temperature of 284° Fahr., in a current of hydrogen, for 12 hours ; after which, by raising the heat to 856° Fahr., the nicotine distils over pure, drop by drop. Prop., 8fc. Nicotine is a colourless, volatile liquid; highly acrid and pungent; smelling strongly of tobacco; boiling at 375° Fahr. (482°—Pereira); soluble in water, ether, al- cohol, and oils; and combining with the acids, forming salts, many of which are crystallizahle. It is a frightful poison ; | of a drop will kill a rabbit; a single drop will kill a large dog. Nicotine is the substance which was employed by the Count Bocarme for the purpose of pois- oning his brother-in-law, Gustave Fougnies, the particulars of which were developed in the celebrated trial, in Belgium, of that nobleman, in 1851. Good Virginia and Kentucky to- bacco, dried at 212° Fahr., contain from 62 to 7§ of nicotine; Havannah tobacco (cigars) less than 2g. (Schloesing.) NIGHT'MARE. Syn. Incfbijs, Ephialtes, L. The common causes of nightmare are indi- gestion and the use of narcotic and intoxicat- ing substances. Its prevention consists in the selection of proper food, and in duly attend- ing to the state of the stomach and bowels. Heavy and late suppers should he particularly avoided, as well as all articles of diet that are of difficult digestion, or apt to induce flatu- lency. When it arises from strong drink, to- bacco, or opium, these should he abandoned, or employed in smaller quantities. A teaspoonful of spirit of sal volatile, magnesia, or bicarbonate of soda, taken in a glass of cold water on going to bed, is a good and simple preventive. In cases accompanied by restlessness, a few drops of laudanum or tincture of henbane may he added. An occasional aperient is also ex- cellent. See Chamomile. NIGHT'SHADE (Deadly). -S'yn. Belladonna (Ph. L. E. & D.). “ The leaf, fresh and dried, (leaves and root—Ph. D.) of Atropa belladonna, Linn.^* Oval, acute, very perfect, glabrous, when bruised exhaling a disagreeable odour. The herb which grows spontaneously in hedges and uncultivated places is to he preferred to that which is cultivated in gardens.’' (Ph. L.) Belladonna is a powerful narcotic, and is used as an anodyne, antispasmodic, and discutient, in a variety of diseases,—neuralgia, arthritic pains, migratory rheumatic pains, spasmodic rigidity and strictures, angina pectoris, hoop- ing-cough, fevers, phthisis, &c.; also as a pro- phylactic of scarlet fever, as a resolvent in enlarged and indurated glands, to produce di- lation of the pupil, &c., &c. Dose. Of the powder, commencing with 1 gr., gradually and cautiously increased until dryness of the throat or dilation of the pupil occurs, or the head is affected. See Atropia. NIGHTSHADE (Woody.) Syn. Bitter- sweet ; Dulcamara (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. The “ new shoots (caules) of Solanum Dulcamara, Linn.” “ It is to be collected in autumn, after the leaves have fallen.” (Ph. L.) Diapho- retic, diuretic, and (in large doses) narcotic. See Decoction op Dulcamara. NIO'BIUM. See Tantalum. NIP'PLES (Sore). The most common form of this affection is that termed " chapped r nipples,’ by nurses. As a preventive mea- sure, the part may be moistened morning and evening, for some weeks before the period of lactation, with a little rum or brandy, which is more effective if slightly acidulated with a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid. Some per- sons employ tincture of tolu, or compound tincture of benzoin (Friar’s balsam) for this purpose. When CHAPS, CRACKS, or like sores, arising from lactation, are once developed, one of the safest and most effective remedies is tincture of catechu, applied 3 or 4 times a day, by means of a camel-hair pencil. The celebrated nostrum of Liebert for cracked nipples, “ Cosmelique infaillible et prompt contre les ger^ures ou crevasses aux seins et autres,” is a lotion formed of 10 gr. of nitrate of lead dissolved in 4 fl. oz. of rose water, and tinged with a little cochineal. The parts are moist- ened with the liquid, and are then covered with fine leaden nipple-shields, two of which are provided for the purpose. This is repeated g soon after each time the child leaves the breast; and the nipple is carefully washed with a soft sponge and lukewarm water, and gently dabbed dry with a very soft towel, before the infant is |