89 ALDEHYDIC ACID—ALE. it forms thialdine.—Use. Chiefly to make | pure aldehyde (which seg). ALDEHYDIC ACID (-hid-). Syn. Ace'- TYLOIJSACIDj Lamp'IC ACID ? Aciddmalde- hyd'icum, L. a compound discovered by Liebig, and supposed by him to be identical with the ‘ lampic acid’ of Davy and Earaday ; or at least its essential part. Prep., df’c. Digest o^ride of silver in alde- hyde ; then decant the clear liquid, and pass sulphuretted hydrogen through it, to throw down the silver. The product is a weak acid which form salts called al'dehydates with the bases. These salts sufier decomposition during the evaporation of their solutions, and hence cannot be obtained in a separate state. See Acetyle, &c. AL'DER (awV-). Syn. Al'der-teee; Al'nus (al-), L.; A. GLUTiNo'SA (Gaertn.); Bettj'la ALNIJS, Linn.; AuNE, Atjlne, Fr.; Eele, Ger. A well-known English tree, chiefly growing in moist grounds near rivers. Its wood is used for hurdles, for various articles of turnery and furniture, and, when converted into charcoal, for making gunpowder; it possesses consi- derable durability under water; but is other- wise of little value. Bark and leaves, very astrin- gent, and reputed vulnerary; decoction used as a gargle in sore throat, and, in double the dose of cinchona, as a febrifuge in agues j bark and sap used in dyeing and tanning. The following belong to different nat. orders and genera to the preceding:— Black Alder. Syn. Win'tee-berey j Pei'nos veeticilla'tus, Linn. A tree growing in the United States of America. Bark, febrifuge, tonic, and astringent; berries, tonic and eme- tic (Bigelow). It has been much recommended in dropsies, diarrhoea, intermittents, &c. Dose, (of the dried bark), 5 to 1 dr., 3 or 4 times a day. Black Alder-tree. Syn. Beeey-beaeing aldee-tree; Rham'nus pean'gula, Linn. A large shrub found in the woods apd thickets of England, &c. Wood, black dog’wood; bark, bitter, emetic, purgative; used to dye yellow; root-bark, a drastic purgative; berries, purgative, emetic; unripe berries yield SAP- geeen; charcoal of the wood esteemed the best for gunpowder. ALE. Syn. Barley Wine *; Aile, Fr.; Weiss-bier, Ger.; Ael, Eale, Sax.; Ceee- yisTa alba, C. lupula'ta, A'la*, Al'la*, L. Pale-coloured beer, prepared from lightly dried malt, by the ordinary process of brev/ing. * It is described by some writers as containing more saccharine matter and mucilage than either beer or porter; by others, as differing from these liquors, in being prepared with a smaller proportion of hops; whilst a third party represent its chief characteristics to de- pend on “ the large quantity of hops used therein,” which, they say, is “ greater than that in beer.” These conflicting statements can only be accounted for, by the changes which the public taste has undergone during the last half century ; and by the fact, that the ale of the modern brewer is manufactured in several varieties, which are determined by the wants of the consumer, and the particular market for which it is intended. Thus, the finer kinds of Burton, Scotch, East India, Bavarian, and other like ales, having undergone a thorough fermentation, contain only a small quantity of undecomposed sugar and gum. Some of these are also highly “hopp’d” or “bittered”, the further to promote their preservation during transit and change of temperature. New or mild ales, intended for present use, on the contrary, are less attenuated by lengthened fermentation, and abound in saccharine and gummy matter. They are, therefore, more nutritious, though less intoxicating, than those previously referred to. The love of novelty, and the indiscriminate and scarcely judicious recommendations of a portion of the medical faculty, have further tended to promote con- fusion, by inducing a demand for certain de- scriptions of ale for home consumption, which were originally solely intended for another market; and which are chiefly suitable to the vitiated palates and debilitated stomachs of the inhabitants of hotter climates than that of England. In this way, of late years, an en- tirely new taste has heen forced, as it were, on a large portion of the beer-drinkers of these realms; whether to their advantage, or the contrary, is still a matter of dispute, and a subject which, in its relation to hygiene, well deserves the most searching and impartial in- vestigation. ^ Between the extremes above noticed, range those almost innumerable va- rieties of this liquor met with in commerce. In brewing, the finer kinds of ale, ‘ pale ’ or * lightly dried’ malt, and the best East Kent hops of the current season’s growth, are always employed; and when it is desired to produce a liquor possessing little colour, very great at- tention is paid to their selection. With the same object, the boiling is conducted with more than the usual precautions, and the fer- mentation is carried on at a somewhat lower temperature than that commonly allowed for several other varieties of beer. For ordinary ale intended for immediate use, the malt may be all, or mostly ‘ pale’; but, if the liquor be brewed for keeping,’ and in warm weather, when a slight colour is not objectionable, one- fifth, or even one-fourth of ‘amber-malt’ may be advantageously employed. From lb. to 6 lb. of hops is the quantity commonly used to the * “It may be greatly doubted whether any benefit can be derived fi’om swallowing the strongly hitter infusion” (pale ale) “now so largely consumed at meals, and whether positive mischief may not be done by mixing an active therapeutical agent with the gastric juice while the stomach is discharging its functions. The writers have had occasion to observe the evil which sometimes results from the practice, and sincerely hope that the present custom of ordering a powerful tonic with meals” (and they might truly add—‘or shortly before them’) “will soon fall into disuse.” (Drs. A. S. Taylor and G. 0. Rees in Pereira’s “ Mat. Med. and Therapeutics," 4th ed.) We would ex- tend these remarks to the habitual use of bitter ale at any time; but more particularly in the morning, and late in the day.