1173 RICE—RINGWORM. jg reduced to powder, and at once put into a !veil-closed bottle. 2. (Hoblyn.) Roast powdered rhubarb in an Iron vessel, constantly stirring, until it becomes linost black, then smother it in a covered jar. pose. 5 to 10 gr.; as an astringent in diar- jhoea, and a tonic in dyspepsia, &c. Prof, j’rocter, the well-known American pharma- •eutist, recommends the rhubarb to be only .oasted to a ‘light brown* I BICE. Syn. Ortza, L. The seed of Oryza \ativa, a plant of the natural order Graminaoece. I everal varieties are known in commerce, dis- tinguished by the name of the country or dis- rict which produces them. The finest is that juported from Carolina. I As an article of diet, rice is highly nutritious nd wholesome when combined with fresh niinal or other nitrogenized food; but, owing D the very small quantity of * fiesh-formers’ 'liich it contains, and its comparative desti- ition in saline matter, it is totally unfit to )rm the principal portion of the diet of the orking classes, or the poorly fed, at least in ais climate. “ It does not appear so w^ell cal- alated for European constitutions as the otato, for we find the poor constantly reject when potatoes can be had.” This preference vidently depends on something more than lere whim or taste; for some years ago, wdien ce was substituted for potatoes in some of our nion workhouses, the most serious con- quences followed. In one of these, nine or :n deaths from scurvy and allied diseases 'curred in a single fortnight. BICINO'LEIC ACID. A variety of oleic acid scovered in saponified castor oil. \ BICK'ETS. Syn. Rachitis, L. A disease, jiuerally confined to childhood, characterised, y a large head, prominent forehead, protruded I’east bone, fiattened ribs, tumid belly, ema- |ated limbs, and great general debility. The pnes, more particularly those of the spine and Igs, become distorted, and exhibit a deficiency ■ earthy matter; the stools are frequent and lose, a slow fever succeeds, with cough, pain- il and difficult respiration, and, unless the lild rallies, atrophy is confirmed, and death isues. When recovery takes place, there is | ways more or less deformity left. Children i a scrofulous diathesis are the most liable to jiis affection. The common causes of rickets are bad nurs- g, exposure to damp and cold, and insuffi- jent nutrition, arising from the use of white read containing alum, or any of the per- cious compounds vended under the names of farinaceous food,’ ‘ infants’ F.,’ ‘ PATENT &c. Rickets, like caries of the bones, is a sease -which is scarcely knowm amongst fants whose pap is made of pure wheaten *ead, and whose mothers or nurses consume lie same themselves. : The treatment of rickets depends more on I'oper domestic management than on direct edication. Careful nursing, warm dry I j clothing, thorough ventilation, moderate exer- cise, and, above all, a light nutritious mixed . diet abounding in nitrogenous matter and the i phosphates, will do much to effect a cure. To these may be added the administration of the milder chalybeate tonics, bark, or quinine, with occasional doses of some mild aperient, as phosphate of soda, or, when there is diarrhoea^ of rhubarb or some other tonic purge. The administration of small doses of phosphate of lime or of dilute phosphoric acid, frequently repeated, or, still better, the daily use of jelly made of pure ivory or bone shavings, will often effect wonders in those cases in which the bones are implicated from an apparent deficiency of earthy matter. See Bread, Farina, Nurs- ing, &c. RING'WOEM. Syn. Scald-head; Por- RIGO, L. The common ringworm, the por- RIGO SCUTULATA of medical writers, is a disease that appears in circular patches of little pustules, which afterwards form scabs, leaving a red pimply surface, and destroying the bulbs of tbe hair in its progress. It spreads rapidly, and is very infectious, often running through a whole school. It chiefly affects the neck, forehead, and scalp of weakly children, and frequently arises without any apparent cause, but, in general, may be traced to unclean- liness, or contact with parties suffering from the disease. The treatment of ringworm consists in shaving the part, and keeping it clean with soap and water, at the same time that an occasional mild saline aperient is administered, and a light, nutritious diet, of which the red meat and ripe fruits should form a portion, be rigorously adhered to. When-the scabbing , commences, dressings of tar ointment, or of the ointment of nitrate or nitric oxide of mercury of the London Ph., or a mixture of equal parts of the first and either the second or third, should be applied, in each case diluting the mixture with sufficient lard to adapt it to the state of irritability of the part. During this treatment the head should be covered with an ordinary nightcap, or some simple bandage, and not enveloped in a bladder or oil-skin case, ! as is commonly the practice, since the complete exclusion of atmospheric air tends to aggravate the disease. Obs. There are several varieties of ringw’orm or porrigo besides that noticed above, but, being of less frequent occurrence, they are, consequently, less important. Of these are the PORRIGO LARVALIS, CRUSTA LACTEA, Or MILKY CRUST of infancy; the PORRIGO furfurans, or SCALY- or BRANNY SCALD-HEAD, occasion- ally occurring in adults, and more particularly in females;—the porrigo favosa, or honey- comb RINGWORM, of childhood, consisting of an eruption of large, soft, straw-coloured pus- tules, the appearance of which has given this name to the disease; and the porrigo de- CALVANS, characterised by simple bald circular patches, without any other affection of the 1