APPENDIX. 1381 through a funnel lightly choked with asbestos, and again let it cool and crystallize. Drain the crystals, and dry them under a bell jar over sulphuric acid. This salt has been found useful in diabetes, in doses of from 3 to 4 gr., thrice a day, in water. It is also used as an external application in cancer. See Pee- MANGANic Acid {page 1053), and Solution {below). Sulphate oe Potash (Potass^ Sulphas). This is ordered to be prepared by a modi- fication of the Ph. D. process. (See Neuteal Sulphate, page 1119.) To the residue of the nitric acid process, 1 lb., dissolved in boiling distilled water, ^ gall., add slaked lime (8 oz., or q. s.), until reddened litmus paper immersed in it is restored to a blue colour ; filter through calico, and, having heated it to the boiling- point, add carbonate of potash (60 gr., or q. s.) as long as there is any precipitate; filter again, add dilute sulphuric acid (6 fl. dr., or q. s.) till a neutral or slightly acid solution is produced; evaporate tiU a film forms, and set by for 24 hours. Dry the crystals on filtering paper. SULPHUEATED POTASH (POTASSA SULPHU- EATA; POTASSII SULPHUEETUM, Ph. L. & E.; Hepae Sulphueis, Ph. D.). Described in Mat. Med. as “ tersulphuret of potassium with sulphate of potash.” It is prepared by mixing carbonate of potash, 10 oz., with sub- limed sulphur, 4| oz., in a warm mortar; then heating them in a clay crucible, at first gradu- ally, until eflFervescence ceases, and, finally, to dull redness, so as to produce complete fusion. The liquid, having been poured out on a clean flagstone, is covered with a basin, to exclude the air as much as possible during solidifi- cation. (See page 1125.) Taeteate op Potash. 1. (PotasSjE Tae- TEAS.) A slight modification of the Ph. D. process {page 1120) is ordered. To carbonate of potash, 9i oz. (or q. s.), dissolved in boiling distilled water, 2^ pints; add, by degrees, acid tartrate of potash, 20 oz. (or q. s.), so that the liquid, after a few minutes’ boiling, may be per- fectly neutral to test paper; then filter, evapo- rate, and set aside to crystallize. A second crop of crystals may be obtained by concen- trating the mother-liquor. Dry by exposure to warm air. 2. (Acid Taeteate of Potass a; Potass.® Taeteas acida ; P. Bitaeteas, Ph. L. E. & D.) In Mat. Med. No process, ifi^^page 1120.) Potassium. This metal is noticed in the Appendix. The following compounds are in- cluded in the work :— Beomide op Potassium (Potassii Beo- midum). a new officinal salt, prepared as the iodide, from solution of potash, 2 pints; bro- mine, 4 fl. oz. (or q. s.); wood charcoal, 2 oz.; boiling distilled water, 1^ pint. (See below, also page 1121.) Feeeidcyanide of Potassium. Named in Appendix among articles employed in chemical analysis. (See page 1122.) Feeeocyanide op Potassium. Also in Appendix, among articles employed in the pre- paration of medicines. {Sea page 1122.) Iodide op Potassium (Potassii Iodidum). To solution of potash, 1 gall., add iodine, 29 oz. (or q. s.), in small quantities at a time, with constant agitation, until a permanent brown tint is produced; evaporate to dryness in a porcelain dish; pulverize the residue, and mix it intimately with finely powdered wood char- coal, 3 oz.; throw the mixture, in small por- tions at a time, into a red-hot crucible, and, when the whole is in a state of fusion, pour it out; when cool, dissolve the mass in boiling distilled water, 2 pints; filter through paper, wash the filter with a little boiling distilled water, evaporate the whole filtrate till a film forms, and set aside to crystallize. The crystals are to be drained and quickly dried, with a gentle heat. More crystals may be obtained by concentrating the mother-liquor. (See page 1123.) Poultices. Tlie poultices (cataplasmata) of the Ph. L. are adopted, with very slight modi- fication. (Compare the formulae given below with those on pages 1127-8.) Chaecoal Poultice (Cataplasma Cae- BONls). Wood charcoal, ^ oz.; bread, 2 oz.; linseed meal, 1^ oz.; boiling water, 10 fi. oz. Proceed as ordered by Ph. L. Chloeine Poultice (Cataplasma Sod® Chloeat®). Solution of chlorinated soda, 2 fl. oz.; linseed meal, 4 oz.; boiling water, 8 ft. oz. Proceed as ordered by Ph. L. Hemlock Poultice (Cataplasma Conii). Hemlock leaf, in powder, 1 oz.; linseed meal, 3 oz.; mix, and add them gradually to boiling water, 10 fl. oz. Linseed Poultice (Cataplasma Lini). Linseed meal, 4 oz.; olive oil, ^ fl. oz.; mix; then add, gradually, boiling water, 10 fl. oz., with constant stirring. Mustaed Poultice (Cataplasma Sinapis). Linseed meal, 2^ oz. ; boiling water, 10 fl. oz.; mix gradually, and add mustard, 2^ oz., con- stantly stirring. Yeast Poultice (Cataplasma Feementi). Beer yeast, 6 fl. oz.; flour, 14 oz. ; water, heated to 100°, 6 fl. oz. Proceed as ordered by Ph. L. Powders. Twelve powders are now officinal. Compare the formulae given below with those on pages 1129 to 1135. Compound Powdee of Almonds (Pulvis AMYGDAL® COMPOSITUS ; CONFECTIO AmYG- DAL®, Ph. L. ; CONSEETA AMYGDALAEUM, Ph. E.). Jordan almonds, Soz., are steeped in cold water until their skins can be easily removed; and, after blanching, are dried tho- roughly w'ith a soft cloth, and lightly rubbed to a smooth consistence, in a mortar; to this pulp, gum arabic, 1 oz., and refined sugar, 4 oz., previously mixed, are added, and the whole is then rubbed to a coarse powder, which is to be preserved in a jar lightly covered. ^ Antimonial Powder (Pulvis aIntimo-