ASTHMATIC—ATMOSPHERE. 241 diaphoretics, followed by mild purgatives, may be administered with advantage ; indeed, an emetic, taken a few hours before an impending tit, will frequently prevent its accession. Dys- peptic symptoms must be treated in the usual manner. “ Chalk and opium will astonish the , asthmatic, by the excellence of their effects . when the irritation proceeds from dyspepsia of the first passages only.” (Dr. Bree.) The same authority also states that ' vinegar,’ separately administered, counteracts the flatu- lence and distension of the stomach. Various other remedies have been recom- mended for asthma; among which are the smoking of tobacco and stramonium. In using i the latter herb, the root and lower parts of ; the stem are chopped up and placed in the howl of a common tobacco-pipe, and a few whiffs are occasionally taken. Drinking at I the same time should be avoided. Lately I lobelia inflata (Indian tobacco) has been highly extolled in asthma, in doses of—tincture, 20 or 30 drops, to 2 teaspoonfuls—powder, 5 to 15 or 20 gr.; taken at the commencement or shortly before the accession of the fit, and repeated after the interval of an hour, if nausea or expectoration does not intervene. ; Sir John Floyer is said to have been cured of an asthma of 60 years’ standing, at the age of I 80, by the constant use of very strong coffee. I Sir John Pringle adopted the same remedy with great success. He remarks, “One quality . occurred to me which I have observed of that i liquor {coffee), confirming what you have said I of its sedative powers. It is the best abater of periodic asthma which I have seen. The coffee used ought to be the best Mocha, newly I burnt, and made very strong immediately after i grinding it. I commonly order an ounce for one I dish, which is to be repeated with fresh coffee ' after the interval of a quarter or half an hour; and which I direct to be taken without milk or sugar.’’^ Very recently cigars and cigarettes o^ datura tatula, Linn.—a peculiar species of stramo- nium—have been prepared by Messrs. Savory and Moore; and are strongly recommended by Drs. Watson, Latham, Fergusson, and many other physicians of eminence, as the very best remedy yet introduced for asthma. A change of diet and habits, and particularly a change of residence, will often produce a 1 marked improvement in asthmatic patients, and even effect a cure, when medicines have failed. The use of bark and bitters, or mild chalybeate tonics (when not contra-indicated), tends to improve the tone of the system, and may be adopted, in nearly all cases, with per- fect safety. See Aie-bath (compressed). Cigars, Datuea, &c. Grind'er’s Asthma. See Melanosis. ASTHMATIC. Syn. AsthmatTcalj As- mat'icus, L. ; Asthmatique, Fr.; Asthma- tisch, Engbrustig, Ger. Of or relating to asthma, or affected with it. 1 “ Letter to Dr, Fercival.” ASTIG'MATISM. Syn. Astigmatis'mtts, L.; Astigmatisme, Fr. A rare defect of vision arising from a want of agreement be- tween the refractive powers of the eye in a horizontal and a vertical plane passing through the axis of the organ. It may be remedied, as in the case of Prof. Airey, by the use of spectacles furnished with suitable lenses. See Sight, Spectacles, &c. ASTRIN'GENCY (as-trmje'-en-se). Syn. Astringen'tia, L. ; Qijalite astringente, Fr. ; ZUSAMMENZIEHENDE KRAET, Ger. The quality of being astringent; the astringent principle. ASTRIN'GENT (-trinje'-). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Astein'gens, L. j ZusAMMENziEHEND, Ger. That straitens or causes wrinkling or con- striction. In pharmacology, an epithet of sub- stances or agents (astrin'gents ; astrin- gen'tia, L.) which constrict animal fibre and coagulate albuminous fluids, and thereby ob- viate relaxation and check excessive secretion or discharges. In modern use, the word, both as an adj. and subst., is confined almost ex- clusively to internal remedies; those of a like character, employed externally, being usually termed ‘ styptics,’ ^ desiccants,’ &c. The principal astringents are—alcohol, alum, chalyheates (generally), sulphate of copper, sulphate and sesquichloride of iron, acetate and diacetate of lead, lime, bichloride of mercury, nitrate of silver, vegetable astringents (see below), acetate, carbonate, chloride, oxide, and sulphate of zinc, &c. See Dessicants, Styp- tics, Tonics, &c. Min'eral Astringents. See Astringent {above). Veg'etable Astringents (vej'-). Of these the principal are—alkanet, bistort, catechu, the cinchona barks and their alkaloids, dragon’s blood, French or red rose, galls, kino, logwood, mastiche, oak-bark, red sander’s wood, rhaiany, and tormentil. (See above.) Astringent Prin'ciple. A term formerly restricted to ‘ tannin ’; but now commonly applied to the astringent matter of any vege- table. ATCHAR'. See Pickles. -ATE. See Nomenclathre. ATHAMAN'TINE (-tin). Syn. Athaman- ti'na, L. a crystallisable substance, of little in- terest, found in the root of athaman'ta oreoseW- num or black mountain-parsley. See Alkaloid. ATMOM'ETER. Syn. Atmidom'eter; At- mom'etrum, &c., L. ; Atmometre, &c., Fr. In chemistry and meteorology, an instrument for measuring the rate of evaporation from a humid surface. AT'MOSPHERE (-fere). Syn. Atmo- sphe”ea,L.; Atmosphere, Fr.; Atmosphare, Dhnstkreis, Ger. Primarily, a ‘ vapour- sphere’; appr., the assemblage of respirable gas and aeriform vapourswhich surroundthe earth; fig., any surrounding medium or influence. Hist. Many of the physical properties of the atmosphere must have arrested the notice 16