15 ACETIC ACID. 5lg of the monohydrate, or 41 or 42§ of real acetic acid. T-he resin sometimes found float- ing on the mixed ingredients should be care- fully removed, by skimming, before distillation. As acid of the above strength is rarely re- quired ; and as the distillation is more easily conducted when the ingredients are less con- centrated, a little water may be conveniently added either before or towards the end of the distillation. Hence the following proportions have been recommended :— 2. (Volckel.) Acetate of lime (as last), 100 parts; hydrochloric acid (sp. gr. 1*16), 90 to 95 parts; water, 25 parts; mix, and proceed as before. Frod. 96 to 98 parts of an excel- lent acid, well adapted to trading purposes, having a sp. gr. about 1"050, and containing nearly 40g of hydrated acetic acid. It has been correctly remarked, that the acetic acid produced with ‘hydrochloric acid,’ is always of better quality than that produced with sulphuric acid; being not only less coloured, but also entirely free from sulphurous acid. The distillation uniformly proceeds with ease and regularity, and the whole of the acetic; acid passes over between 212° and 248° Fahr.; by which the danger of contami- nation with other products, resulting from a high degree of heat, is obviated. 3. An Acetic acid sufficiently strong and pure for many ordinary purposes may ba obtained without distillation, by pouring strong sulphu- ric acid, 60 parts, diluted with water, 5 parts. on well-dried acetate of lime, 100 parts; di- gesting, with occasional agitation in a close vessel, decanting the clear liquid, and straining the remainder. II. From the Acetates by dry distillation with a sulphate:— a. From acetate oe lead :— 1. Acetate of lead (dried), 5 parts; and sul- phate of iron (gently calcined), 2 parts; are separately powdered; and after thorough mix- ture, carefully distilled, by the heat of a sand- bath, into a well cooled receiver. An econo- mical process for a strong acid, under certain circumstances; but one now seldom adopted. 2. (B2iTdio\\\ev’s Strong Acetous acid.) Dried acetate of lead, 10 oz.; calcined green vitriol, 12 oz.; as the last. b. From the acetates of coffee :—By substituting acetate or binacetate of copper, in equiv. proportions, or better with excess of the sulphate. Seldom used. c. From acetate of fotassa, as the last.f d. From ACETATE OF SODA.—The formulae I., a., 9, 10, strictly come under this division. III. From the Acetates per se:— a. From acetate of coffee:—(Radical VINEOAEf ; AeOMATIC V.f ', SfIEIT OF VEEDI- GEISf; SfIEITDS VEN'EEISf, L.; ESFEIT DE VENDS, Fr.; Aciddm ace'ticdm, Ph. L. 1787.) Process. Carefully dry crystallised verdigris (‘binacetate of copper’) by a very gentle heat, and introduce it into a large stoneware retort (see Engr.), the bottom of which has been pre- A, Furnace. li B B B, Glass receivers. C, Stoneware retort. D, Bottle containing vinegar. E E E E, Basins containing w’ater. F F F F, Supports for basins. viously coated with a mixture of clay and horse-dung, to render it more capable of stand- ing the fire. Next place it in a suitable fur- nace, and connect it, by an adopter tube, with 3 or 4 double tubulated globes, the last of which must be furnished with a vertical tubu- lature, to which a double Welter’s safety tube should be adapted; the other end being im- mersed in a basin half-filled with distilled vine- gar or water, while the funnel portion commu- nicates with the atmosphere. Then place each globe in a basin of water, kept cool by a stream constantly passing through it; and cover the upper portion with cloths kept con- tinually wet with cold water. After 15 or G, Welter safety-tube. H, Supply-pipe of cold water. 1111, Cocks to supply water to tlie basins. J, Water main. L, Adopter connecting retort and globes. 20 hours, fire may be applied, and must be so regulated that the drops follow each other with considerable rapidity from the end of the adopter tube, whilst the bubbles of air cause no inconvenience at the other end of the ap- paratus. If otherwise, the fire must be damped a little. The operation should be continued, and the fire gradually increased, until vapour ceases to come over, known by the globes gradually cooling, notwithstanding the heat of the furnace. The operation being- concluded, the whole may be allowed to cool, and the acid collected preparatory to rectifica- tion. This may be effected in a similarly ar- ranged apparatus, except that it must be wholly