674 FUMING LIQUORS—FUNGI. 2. ‘ Chloride of //me/ either sprinkled on the floor (if nnca7'peied) or (if carpeted) placed ahont the room in shallow dishes. An old plate or flower-pot saucer answers for this purpose. Used for inhabited rooms, and on shipboard, &c. 3. A solution of ‘ chloride of lime’ (1 oz. of the chloride to each quart of water). Used as the last, hut more freely. Ohs. Chlorine fumigations, although so po- pular, and so much relied on by many medical practitioners, are apparently useless in pre- venting the progress of certain contagious diseases. “ In Moscow, chlorine was exten- sively tried and found unavailing, nay even in- jurious, in cholera.” (Dr. Pereira.) “ At the time that the cholera hospital was filled with clouds of chlorine, then it was that the greatest number of the attendants were attacked.” (Dr. Albers.) At the Smallpox Hospital, where chlorine was tried, with the view of ar- resting the progress of erysipelas, “ all offen- sive smell was removed, but the power of communicating the disease remained behind.” (‘ Lond. Med. Gaz.’) Notwithstanding these marked failures, the confidence of many emi- nent members of the profession continues un- abated. “ As a fumigation agent, disinfectant and antiseptic, chlorine, I believe, stands un- rivalled.” “ For destroying miasmata, noxious effluvia, and putrid odours, it is the most pow- erful agent known.” (Dr. Pereira.) Our own experience leads us to the conclusion that chlorine is more useful in neutralizing the contagious or morbific matter of fevers (espe- cially of scarlet fever) and putrid diseases ge- nerally, than of the other diseases in which it has been employed. Hydrochlo”ric Fumigation. Syn. Mueiatic EUMiaATION; Fumigatio meeiatica, F. ACIDI HTDEOCHLOEICI, L. Prep. From com- mon salt placed in a cup or saucer, and an equal weight of sulphuric acid poured over it. Now seldom used. It rapidly neutralizes am- moniacal fumes. I'odine Fumigation. Syn. Femigatio Io- DiNii, L. Prep. 1. From iodine, 5 to 25 gr., or more, according to extent of surface, placed on a heated iron contained in a box or case in which the limb is enclosed. In the usual skin diseases in whicli the use of iodine is indicated. 2. (Compound; Fumigatio iodi]s'-ii com- rosiTA—Sellers.) Iodine, 20 gr.; red sulphuret of mercury, 40 gr.; sulphur, 6 dr.; mix, and divide into 12 powders. One to be used, as the last, 3 times daily; in lepra, psoriasis, &c. Mercu”rial Fumigation. Syn. Fumigatio MEECUEIALIS, L. Prep. (Bouchardat.) OH- hanum (in powder), 2 parts ; red sulphuret of mercury, 3 parts. A little is sprinkled on red-hot coals or a heated shovel held beneath the part; or the fumes are inhaled. Ohs. Abernethy used the black oxide of mercury (1| to 2 dr.), and applied it to the whole body. excepting the head, in a similar way to the sulphur bath, and continued the application for about a quarter of an hour. See Cakdles (Mercurial), and No. 2, {ahove). Mu'riatic Fumigation. See Hydeochloeic F. {above). Ni'trous Fumigation. Syn. Fumigatio ei- TEOSA. Prep. (P. Cod.) Sulphuric acid, di- luted with half its weiyht of water, is placed in a porcelain cup (any shallow vessel of glass or earthenware will do), placed over heated cinders, and small quantities of powdered nitre added to it from time to time. Ohs. Heat causes the gas to be evolved more rapidly, and thus renders the fumes more offensive, without increasing their efficacy. Equal weights of oil of vitriol and water arc the proportions usually employed. oz. of nitre is said to be sufficient for a small room. (Dr. Bateman.) The vessel contain- ing the ingredients should be placed in an elevated position in the centre of the apart- ment. Dr. Carmichael Smyth, who introduced nitrous acid gas as a fumigation (1799), re- ceived a reward of £5000 from Parliament for publisbing his formula. Sulphu'rous Fumigation. Syn. Fumigatio SULPHUEOSA, F. SULPHUEIS, L. Prep. 1. 'The fumes of butminy sulphur. 2. Flowers of sulphur, 7 parts; nitre, 4 parts; benzoin and olibanum, of each, 2 parts; camphor, 1 part; pressed into the bowls of tobacco-pipes, and lighted with a quick-match. See Bath and Disinfectant. Tar Fumigation. Syn. Fumigatio picea, SUFFUMIGATIO PICIS LIQUID.E, L. Prep. 1. Vegetable tar, 1 part; water, 7 or 8 parts; mix, and let it simmer in an open vessel set over a spirit-lamp placed near the centre of the apartment. 2. (Sir A. Crichton.) Nomvay tar, 1 lb.; powdered carbonate of potash, i oz. or 1 oz.; mix, and heat it as last. The potash is added to neutralize any volatile acid. Formerly highly thought of in bronchitis and pulmonary consumption. Tooth'ache Fumigation. Syn. Fumigatio ODONTALGICA, F. ANTI-NEUEALGICA, L. Prep. 1. From henbane seeds, powdered and thrown into a basin of hoilhig water, and the affected part held in‘the steam. Sometimes a little of the seed is placed in a heated iron spoon, and the part exposed to the fumes. 2. (Mr. Beasley.) A popular remedy is_ to throw henbane seed on hot cinders, inverting a cup over them to receive the smoke and empyreumatic oil produced. 'The cup is then filled with hot water, and the steam conveyed to the affected side of the mouth. FU”MING LIQUORS. See Ammonia (Per- hydrosulphate), Aesenic (Terchloride), Tin (Bichloride), &c. FUNG'I. In botany, a natural order of cel- lular plants, producing their ‘ fructification’ in the air ; growing in or upon decaying or living