1268 TEETH. children, in and about Loudon. The leaves ; which have been found in the possession of the I manufacturers of imitation tea are those of the sloe tree, ash tree, elder bush, and white thorn. According to Mr. Warrington, a most extensive system of adulterating tea is practised in China. Many samples directly ' imported from that country, examined by him, i did not contain a single grain of tea, being | made up entirely of other leaves. The, ordinary green teas he found, for the most part,' spurious, being manufactured out of the: cheaper black teas. These are * faced uf or ; ^painted’ with various colouring substances, powdered porcelain clay, &c., which are readily | perceived under the microscope, and even' admit of being separated, and chemically j examined. It is a general practice among the grocers in j this country to impart what they call a ‘ blooyn’ | to their green teas by ‘ rouncinf them up with a little calcined magnesia, or finely powdered talc or French chalk. The quantity that adheres to the tea is very trifling, but it greatly improves its appearance. Black teas are * faced* in a similar manner, with finely powdered plumbago or black-lead. Pure China tea is not turned black by being put into water impregnated with sulphuretted hydrogen gas, nor does it tinge a solution of ammonia blue. The infusion is amber-coloured, and is not reddened by the addition of an acid. The ashes left from the combustion of genuine tea are white, and do not exceed 5 to 5^ g. If they exceed this they may be chemically examined with the usual tests for alumina, chromate of lead, copper, cyanide of potassium, gypsum, lime, magnesia, &c. Many of these substances may be detected by simply agitating the tea with a little cold water, when they will be detached from its surface, and render the water turbid, or, by their gravity, sink to the bottom. Among DOMESTIC SUBSTITUTES FOR TEA are —the leaves of speedwell, wild germander, black currant, syringa or mock orange, purple- spiked willow herb, winter green, sweetbriar, cherry tree, sloe, &c., all of which are used for tea, either singly or mixed. The addition of a single bud of the black currant to the infusion of ordinary black tea imparts to it a flavour closely resembling that of green tea. The brownish-coloured powder vended under the name of * la veno beno ’ is a mixture of 2 parts of tea-dust with 5 parts of powdered catechu or terra japonica. A few grains of this substance thrown into the teapot are described in the advertisements as being capable of more than doubling the strength of the beverage. The once notorious ‘ Paraquat flant,’ sold in packets, was simply new meadow- hay that had been wetted with a strong in- fusion of catechu, then dried, chopped small, and strongly compressed. See Theine and Caffeine. Tea. “ The tea is not a meal; when it i' properly used, it should not be a meal; but i has a special purpose to fulfil, which I will no^ explain. Tea, and under the generic term te I include coffee—tea is usually taken tlire hours after dinner. This is the moment whic’ corresponds with the completion of digestion when, the food having been conveyed awa;, from the stomach, nothing remains behind bu the excess of the acid juices employed r digestion; these acid‘juices create an uneas sensation at the stomach, and a call is made fo something to relieve the uneasiness; tea fulfil that object.” ‘‘ On the same principle, afte the business of the dining-room, the antacl and refreshing beverage, either in the shape c tea or coflee, is prepared in the drawing-roon In taking either, the nearer they approach t the simple infusion the better; little milk o cream, and less sugar, should be the principh But, seeing the purpose of tea, how unrea sonable to make it the excuse for a meal, t conjoin with it toast, muffins, bread an butter, and id genus omne.** “ Three meals day may be taken as the standard of habit an custom ; tea and cofiee having a specific plac ; and purpose as a beverage, but none as a meal. I (Eras. Wilson.) See Meals, &c. I Beef Tea. Syn. Infusum carnis bubul’ I JuscuLUM CUM carne boyis, L. This is mere) 5 a very concentrated soup formed of lean bee j According to the common plan, lean beef, 1 ll I is gently simmered in water, 1 quart, for abm I ^ an hour, when spices, salt, &c., are added, an ' in a few mimutes the whole is strained for us ■ The following are other formulae:— j 1. (Dr. A. T. Thomson.) Take of good j steak, ^ lb.; cut it into thin slices, spread thesi ! over a hollow dish, sprinkle a little salt c ' them, add a pint of boiling water, and pla( the dish (covered) near the fire for ^ an houi then remove the whole to a saucepan, and be it gently for 15 minutes; lastly,, strain tbroug a hair sieve. 2. (Prof. Liebig.) Beef, free from fat, lb., is to be minced very small, mixed with t equal w’eight of cold water, and, after dige tion and agitation in the cold for about i i hour, heated slowly to boiling; when it h boiled for a minute or tw’O, strain it through ; cloth. It may be coloured with roasted onU or burnt sugar, and spiced and salted . taste. i Obs. Similar preparations are ordered i some foreign Pharmacopoeias from calves’ Ugh crayfish, frogs, mutton, pullets, snails, tortoi; veal, Ac. In the Ph. L. 1746 a form w given for viper broth (jusculum viPERiyUJ ; See Essence of Beef, Extract of Meat, h Bran Tea. See page 346. TEETH (The). Syn. Dentes, L. - object very subservient to health, and whi 1 merits due attention, is the preservation of i j teeth; the care of which, considering tin I importance in preparing the food for digestic 'is, in general, far from being sufficient