CIDER. 448 volving circular rasp, similar to that used in making potato starch, is admirably adapted to this purpose. The pulp of the crushed or ground apples is now placed on a kind of wicker frame, or in hair-cloth or coarse canvass bags, and after being allowed to drain into suitable tubs or receivers, is subjected to powerful pressure, gradually applied, in the cider press. The liquor which rims off first is the best, and is usually kept separately; whilst that which follows, especially the portion obtained by much pressure, tastes of the “ pips” and skins. The expressed juice or must, obtained as above, is next put into clean casks with large bung-holes, and freely exposed to the air in the shade,, where they are placed on “ stillions,” with flat tubs under them to catch the waste. They are now constantly attended to, and kept quite full, in order that the yeast, as it forms, may froth over and be carried off from the surface of the liquor. After 2 or 3 days for weak cider, and 8 or 10 days for strong cider, or as soon as the sediment has subsided, the liquor is “ racked off” into clean casks, which have been (according to the common practice) previously sulphured with a cooper's match. The casks containing the "^racked cider" are then stored in a cellar, shaded barn, or other cool place, where a low and regular temperature can be ensured, and are left to mature or ripen. By the following spring the cider is commonly lit for use, and may be “ re-racked” for sale. The marc, or pressed pulp, is generally again sprinkled with g or A its weight of water, and re-pressed. The resulting liquor, when fer- mented, forms a weak kind of cider {cider moil, water moil), which is reserved for do- mestic use in the same way as table-beer. The refuse-pulp {apple marc, pomace, pommage, apple cheese) is used as food for pigs and store cattle, and is very acceptable to them. The storing and management of cider are matters of vast importance to the cider farmer, the factor, the wholesale dealer, and the bottler. The principles by which these should be directed are precisely similar to those which are explained under the heads Beewing,Fermentation, and Malt Liquors ; and which, indeed, refer, with slight modifica- tions, to all fermented liquors. Preparatory to bottling cider, it should be examined, to see whether it is clear and sparkling. If not so, it should be clarified, in a similar way to beer, and left for a fortnight. The night before it is intended to put it into bottles, the bung should be taken out of the cask, and left so until the next day, and the filled bottles should not be corked down until the day after; as, if this is done at once, many of the bottles will burst by keeping. The best corks should alone be used. Champagne bottles are the variety generally chosen for cider. It is usual to wire down the corks, and to cover them with tinfoil, after the manner of champagne. A few bottles at a time may be kept in a warm place to ripen. When the cider is wanted for immediate use, or for con- sumption during the cooler portion of the year, a small piece of lump sugar may be put into each bottle before corking it; or, what is the same thing in effect—the bottles may be corked within 2 or 3 hours after being filled. In summer, and for long keeping, this practice is, however, inadmissiWe. The bottled stock should be stored in a cool cellar, when the quality will be greatly improved by age. Cider for bottling should be of good quality, sound and piquant, and at least a twelve- month old. When out of condition it is unfit for bottling. Qual, ^c. Cider, when of good quality, and in good condition, is doubtless a very wholesome liquor. Cider consumers, living in the cider districts, appear to enjoy almost an immunity from cholera, and often from other diseases which are common in other parts of the kingdom. At the same time, however, it is right to mention, that the dry colic or belly- ache {colica picionum) is far from uncommon in these districts, but is wholly confined to those who drink early, hard, or inferior cider, made from harsh, unripe fruit. We believe that, in most cases, it may be referred to the acid of the common cider having acted on the lead, pewter, or copper of the articles or utensils with which it has come in contact, and of which it has dissolved a very minute portion. The best cider contains from 8|| to log of absolute alcohol; ordinary cider, from 4g to 6g. Concluding Remarks. Much of the ex- cellence of cider depends upon the tempera- ture at which the fermentation is conducted; a » point utterly overlooked by the manufacturers R of this liquor. Instead of the apple-juice, asB soon as it is expressed foom the fruit, being B placed in a cool situation, where the tempe-J( rature should not exceed 50° or 52° Fahr., it is frequently left exposed to the full heat of autumn. In this way much of the alcohol formed by the decomposition of the sugar is converted into vinegar, by the absorption of atmospheric oxygen, and thus the liquor ac- quires that peculiar and unwholesome acidity, known in the cider districts by the name of “roughness” When, on the contrary, the fermentation is conducted at a low tempe- rature, nearly the whole of the sugar is con- verted into alcohol, and this remains in the liquor, instead of undergoing the process of acetification. The acetous fermentation, by which alcohol is converted into vinegar, pro- ceeds most rapidly at a temperature of about 90° Fahr,, and at lower temperatures, the action becomes gradually slower, until at 46° to 50° Fahr., no such change takes place. (Liebig.) It is therefore evident, that if the saccharine juice of apples, or any other fruit, is made to undergo the vinous fermentation in a cool situation, less of the spirit resulting from