ALKALIMETRY. 95 I stirring after each addition, and lightly touch- ' ing a piece of litmus-paper with the end of : the glass rod used as a ‘ stirrer,’ until the ! liquid suddenly assumes a pink or onion-red \ colour, and the streak on the litmus-paper is ! red also. Neutralisation being effected, the ' operator allows the sides of the alkalimeter to I drain, and then either ‘ reads off’ the number I of divisions which have been consumed, or (if i using the test-acid by weight) determines the ; quantity by again ‘ weighing ’ the alkalimeter. The common practice is to allow two drops I (= ith of an alkalimetrical division by volume, I or 2 gr. by wei&ht) for over-saturation, which i is, therefore, deducted from the ‘observed I quantity ’ of the test-liquor employed. It is also usual and convenient to slightly tint the ' alkaline liquid with litmus, before commencing 1 the assay; and to place the beaker-glass on a ! sheet of white paper, or a slab of white por- celain, in order that the change of colour I produced by the gradual addition of the I test-acid may be the more easily seen. In I testing solutions of the pure or caustic al- kalies, the colour, on neutralisation, suddenly I changes from ‘ blue ’ to pink or red, without i any intermediate vinous or purple colour j being produced. Some operators heat the alkaline solution before commencing the assay, by which the inconvenience arising from the I absorption and retention of the evolved car- ] bonic acid is, for the most part, prevented. I The quantity of the test-acid consumed, es- i timated by the loss of weight or volume, as explained above, gives either the absolute or I the per-centage quantity of alkali in the sample I examined, according to the constitution of the j test-acid employed. Test-acids and their application:— 1. Test-acid for all the Bases.—The most convenient test-liquor, or normal solution, both 1 for commercial and chemical assays, is dilute ' sulphuric acid, which, when intended to be used VOLUMETRICALLT, has the sp. gr. 1*032 at 60° Fahr., and contains in 100 alkalimetrical di- visions, or 1000 water-grains measure, exactly ' 40 gr., or 1 equiv. of anhydrous or real sul- phuric acid; and when intended to be used GEAVIMETRICALLT, Or by weight, has the sp. gr. 1*033, and contains in 1000 gr. weight 1 exactly 40 gr. of real sulphuric acid; and, in both cases, consequently correspond to 1 equiv. ' of every other base. These dilute acids are easily prepared by mixing 1 part of the concentrated ! acid with 11 or 12 parts of distilled water; the ; precise quantity depending on the strength of : the acid employed. When of the proper ; strength, each of the above quantities exactly I saturates 31 gr. o^.pure or anhydrous soda, or 53 ' gr. ofpure anhydrous carbonate of soda prepared by exposure to a dull red heat; and thus we ! possess a ready means of accurately adjusting ' the strength to the required standard. This acid (as well as all those hereafter mentioned) ! may be kept faintly tinged with litmus or red ' cabbage, which is often more convenient than tinging the alkaline solution at the time of making the assay. It will at once be seen that every alkalimeter division of the first of the above acids, and every 10 gr. of the second, represent the part, or 1^ of alkali whenever the equivalent weight of the latter is taken for the assay. Every 1-lOth part of an alkalimeter division (or every drop), and every grain weight (when a Schiis- ter’s alkalimeter is employed) then respectively represent the ^ of 1^; and the result sought is obtained without the necessity of any calcu- lation} In commercial assays, when 100 gr. (or some aliquot part thereof) are taken for trial, the per-centage result is obtained from the number of alkalimeter-divisions, or the number of grains, of the test-acid consumed, by the common ‘Rule of Proportion.’ Thus;—A crude sample of potash having taken 90 alka- limeter-divisions of test-acid to neutralise it, would contain— 100 ; 47 ; : 90 : 42*30 or nearly 42^ per cent, of potassa. If only 50, 25, or 20 gr. are tested, the result must, of course, be double, quadrupled, ^c., as the case may be. Or the third term of the proportion may be multiplied by the denomi- nator of the f raction representing the aliquot part. This, in the case of 50 gr. (repeating the above example), would be— 100 : 47 : : 45 X 2 : 42*30^ "asbefore; but even these easy calculations may be simplified, as is shewn below. One of the advantages, and not the least, at- tending the use of test-acids corresponding to equivalents, is, that by means of the simple ‘ Rule of Three,’ the per-centage quantity of al- kali may be found, whether 100 or any other number of grains have been submitted to trial. For—The weight of the sample tested (in grains) bears the same relation to the equivalent weight of the alkali under examination, that the number of alkalimeter-divisions or of the grains of test-acid consumed, do to the per- centage of alkali sought. Thus, with a sample of 33 gr. of pearlash taking 35 alkalimeter- divisions or 350 grains (every 10 gr. being =1^) of test - acid for neutralisation, this would be— 33 : 47 : : 35 : 49*85^ or nearly 50 per cent, of pure potassa. By ’ This is obvious-—for if the equivalent of a pure alJcali or of its carbonate (i. e., one of 100%) requires an equiv. (100 aUealirneter-divisions, or 1000 gr.) of test-add to satu- rate it, an alkali or alkaline carbonate of 75%, 50%, or 25%, will respectively require only 75, 50, or 25 divisions, or 750, 500, or 250 gr.; and so of other strengths in propor- tion. The only precaution necessary is always to take the standard-weight for the assay answering to the equiv. of the denomination of the ger-centage result sought. Thus, in testing a carbonate of potash, we may either wish to determine its per-centage richness in ‘ dry carbonate,’ or in ‘ pure potassa,’ the latter being usually the case. To obtain the first, we must take 69 gr. for the assay; and to obtain the second, 47 gr. With caustic alkalies, or mixtures containing them, the weight, in grains, taken for the assay, must always correspond to the equiv. of the pure base. See Table I, page 96.