1031 PAPER HANGINGS. i Mallow Papee. From an infusion of the \urple flowers of the common mallow. Affected Ike ‘dahlia paper.^ ' Manganese Papee. From a solution of klphate of manganese. Ozonized air black- as it. j RnUBAEB Papee. From a strong infusion of jhe 2}uwdered root. Alkalies turn it brown; ! ut boracic acid and its salts do not affect it. !''cry sensitive. Rose Papee. From the petals of the red \ose, as the last. Alkalies turn it bright green. Ilr. A. S. Taylor recommends the infusion to ' e very slightly acidulated with an acid before ipping the paper into it. More sensitive than urmeric paper. j Staech Papee. From a cold decoction of \^arch. Free iodine turns it blue. ; Sulphate op Ieon Papee. From a solution f the protosulphate. As a test for hydro- yanic acid and the soluble cyanides. Tuemeeic Papee. From decoction of tur- neric (2 oz. to the pint). It is turned brown •y alkalies, and by boracic acid and the soluble •orates. It is not quite so susceptible as some •ther tests, but the change of colour is very narked and characteristic. Trancing Paper. Prep. 1. Open a quire of mooth unsized white paper, and place it flat ipon a table, then apply, with a clean ‘sash ool,^ to the upper surface of the first sheet, a oat of varnish made of equal parts of Canada lalsam and oil of turpentine, and hang the pre- )ared sheet across a line to dry; repeat the )peration on fresh sheets until the proper [uantity is finished. If not sufficiently traus- oarent, a second coat of varnish may be iipplied as soon as the first has become quite |lry. 2. Rub the paper with a mixture of equal mrts of nut oil and oil of turjientine, and dry t immediately by rubbing it with wheaten iour / then hang it on a line for 24 hours, 0 dry. Obs. Both the above are used to copy draw- rigs, writing, &c. If washed over with ox- ?all and dried, they may be written on with nk or water colours. The_^r«/ is the whitest ind clearest, but the second is the toughest ind most flexible. The paper prepared from .he refuse of the flax-mills, and of which bank- notes are made, is also called ‘ tracing paper,^ md sometime, ‘vegetable paper.’ This re- quires no preparation; but though very flexible, it has little strength. Var'nished Paper. Before proceeding to varnish paper, card-work, pasteboard, ^c., it is necessary to give it 2 or 3 coats of size, to pre- vent the absorption of the varnish, and any injury to the colour or design. The size may be made by dissolving a little isinglass in boiling water, or by boiling some clean parch- ment cuttings until they form a clear solution. This, after being strained through apiece of ]clean muslin, or, for very nice purposes, clari- Ifled with a little ivhite of egg, is applied by means of a small clean brush, called by painters a sash tool. A light, delicate touch must be adopted, especially for the first coat, lest the ink or colours be started, or smothered. When the prepared surface is perfectly dry, it may be varnished in the usual manner. See Maps, Vaenish, &c. Wa"fer Paper. See Wafees. Waxed Paper. Prep. Place cartridge paper, or strong writing paper, on a hot iron plate, and rub it well with a lump of bees^ wax. Used to form extemporaneous steam or gas pipes, to cover the joints of vessels, and to tie over pots, &e. PAPER HANGINGS. The ornamental paper used to cover the walls of rooms, &c. Under the old system, the paper, after being sized and prepared with a ground colour, had the pattern produced on it by the common process of ‘stencilling,’ a separate plate being em- ployed for each colour that formed the pat- tern. To this succeeded the use of wooden blocks, the surface of which bearing the design in relief, and being covered with colour, was applied by simple hand-pressure on the paper, in a precisely similar manner to that adopted in the block-printing of calicoes. The cylinder calico-printing machine has now been suc- cessfully applied to the manufacture of paper hangings. The colours employed for paper hangings are— Blacks. Frankfort, ivory, and blue black. Blues. Prussian blue, verditer, and facti- tious ultramarine. Beowns. Umber (raw and burnt), and mixtures. Geays. Prussian blue and blue black, with Spanish white. Geeens. Brunswick green, Scheele’s g., Schweinfurt g., and green verditer; also mixtures of blues and yellows. Reds. Decoctions of Brazil wood (chiefly), brightened with alum or solution of tin; the red ochres; and, sometimes, red lake. Violets. Decoction of logwood and alum; also blues tempered with bright red. Yellows. Chrome yellow, decoction of French berries or of weld, terra di sienna, and the ochres. Whites. White lead, sulphate of baryta, plaster of Paris, and whiting, and mixtures of them. The vehicle employed to give adhesiveness and body to the colours is a solution of gelatine or glue, sufficiently strong to gelati- nize on cooling. The satiny lustre observable in some paper hangings (satin papees) is produced by dust- ing finely powdered French chalk over the surface, and rubbing it strongly with a brush or burnisher. The ground for this purpose is prepared with plaster of Paris. Flock and velvet papees are produced by covering the surface of the pattern with e