GLASS. 696 suiting solution, in excess, and the mixture, together with any sediment, is evaporated to dryness, after which the heat is gradually increased to 400° or 500° Fahr.; the dry re- siduum is next reduced to powder, and digested in water acidulated with nitric acid, until ex- hausted of soluble matter j the insoluble por- tion is then carefully dried, gently ignited, and weighed. The weight in grains represents the per-centage of silica in the sample examined. c. The mixed liquid and ‘washings’ of {b) is next acidulated with nitric acid, and treated to a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen, which, if it produces a precipitate, is continued for some time; the precipitate is collected on a very small filter, washed, and dried; the filter with the precipitate next placed in a beaker glass, and strong fuming nitric acid is cautiously added, drop by drop, until complete solution takes place; after boiling the solution for a few minutes, and allowing it to cool, it is pre- cipitated with sulphuric acid, in excess ; this precipitate {sulphate of lead) is washed, dried, slightly ignited in a porcelain crucible, and weighed. The weight in grains, multiplied by "TSfiG, gives the per-centage of oxide of LEAD or LITHARGE. d. The filtered liquid from (e) is evaporated to dryness, and redissolved in water acidulated wdth hydrochloric acid, and treated with a solution of sal ammoniac, and afterwards with liquor of ammonia, in excess; the precipitate {alumina and oxide of iron) is collected, washed, and boiled in a solution of caustic potassa ; the undissolved portion is collected on a filter, washed with boiling water, ignited, and weighed. This gives the per-centage of peroxide op IRON. e. The liquid filtered from the oxide of iron holds the alumina (if any) in solution; a solu- tion of carbonate of ammonia is dropped in; the resulting precipitate is washed, dried, ig- nited, and weighed. This gives the per-centage of ALUMINA. f. The filtrate from the alumina and oxide of iron (see d), after being evaporated to dry- ness, is redissolved in a large qiiantity of dis- tilled water, and is treated with a solution of oxalic acid (a solution of oxalate of ammonia is preferable when no baryta is present); the precipitate is washed, dried, gently ignited, and weighed. The weight of the resulting carbonate of lime, in grains, multiplied by *56292, gives the per-centage of lime re- quired. g. The filtrate from {f) is now mixed with carbonate of potassa, in considerable excess, and boiled for a long time; the resulting pre- cipitate (if any) is then collected on a filter, slightly w*ashed with hot water, dried, and exposed to full-red heat for some time (say 2 hours); the residuum of the calcination is then weighed. This furnishes the per-centage value of the sample in magnesia. h. T\xe filtrate from (f) is treated with dilute sulphuric acid or the solution of a sulphate, as long as a precipitate falls; the precipitate {sul- phate of baryta) is washed, dried, gently ignited, and weighed. The weight, in grains, multi- plied by *6589 gives the per-centage of bartta in the sample. The above may be varied by gently con- centrating the liquid filtered from the pre- cipitate of alumina and oxide of iron (see d), and precipitating it with dilute sulphuric acid ; the mixed precipitate is exhausted by digestion in water holding sal-ammoniac in solution; the undissolved residuum {sulphate of baryta) is washed, dried, and otherwise treated as before; whilst the solution with the ‘washings’ is treated with a solution of carbonate of am- monia ; the precipitate is carbonate of lime, which is to he washed, &c., as directed under (/). The liquor, &c., filtered from the lime, is lastly tested for magnesia. (See g.) i. A second 100 gr. of the powdered glass (see a) is mixed with 200 gr. of fiuor spar, also in powder; the compound is placed in a platinum or leaden capsule, 500 gr. of strong sulphuric acid are added, and the whole cau- tiously stirred together with a silver stirrer or. spoon, care being taken to avoid inhaling the fumes; the heat of a spirit lamp is next applied, and at first is kept at about 212° Fahr., but towards the conclusion of the process is raised to 300° Fahr., or even higher, and is continued for at least 2 hours, or until fumes entirely cease to be evolved; 5 or 6 fl. oz. of distilled water are next poured on the residuary mass, and, after thorough agitation, the whole is thrown on a filter, more water being at last poured on to wash out any remains of soluble matter; to the filtrate, carbonate of ammonia is added in excess, and after a time the earthy salts are removed by filtration; the filtered liquor is now evaporated to dryness, and ignited to dull redness for 2 or 3 minutes; the re- siduum {sulphate of potassa or soda, or of both), after being weighed (the weight being carefully noted down), is redissolved in dis- tilled water ; a solution of chloride of barium is then added as long as it disturbs the liquor, and after a time the whole is again filtered; the filtrate is concentrated by evaporation, and solution of bichloride of platinum added in excess; the whole is now gently evaporated to dryness, mixed with alcohol, collected on a filter, carefully washed with weak alcohol, dried at a temperature under 212° Fahr., and weighed. The weight, in grains, multiplied by *1940, gives the per-centage of potassa sought. k. The weight of sulphate of potassa in the ignited residuum in (^) is calculated from that of the potassa last found (47 parts of the one being equal to 87 parts of the other), and this weight is deducted from the gross weight of the ignited sulphates; the remainder represents the quantity of sulphate of soda present. The weight of the latter, in grains, multiplied by *4367, gives the per-centage of pure soda required.