1059 PHOSPHORUS BASES—PHOSPHORUS PASTE. I t is a colourless, fuming liquid, having the p. gr. of 1'7. I'odides of Phosphorus. Prep. 1. (Biir- |0DIDE.) From phosphorus, 1 equivalent; \idine, 2 equivs., dissolved in bisulphuret of car- on; mixed together in a closed vessel, placed [i a freezing mixture. Orange-coloured; lielts at 230°; volatile ; decomposed by water. I 2. (Teeiodide.) From phosphorus, 1 equiv. ; \)dine, 3 equivs.; as ' the last. Dark red jrystals. I Ox'ide of Phosphorus. Syn. Seboxide of jHOSPHOErs. A reddish-brown powder, j)rmed when a stream of oxygen is forced ,pon phosphorus melted beneath the surface jp hot water. To purify it from phosphoric [nd and free phosphorus, it is washed on a liter with water, then dried by bibulous paper, lid finally digested with bisulphuret of carbon, ‘■’or the other oxidized compounds of phos- lorus and oxygen, see Hypophosphoeoes, HOSPnoEOUS, and Phosphoeic Acids.) The term * phosphoetjs’ is applied to any phosphorescent substances as well as to le element above noticed. The following •e examples:— Baldwin's Phosphorus. Recently fused \trate of lime. For this purpose it must be ■oken into fragments whilst still warm, and once placed in dry and well-stopped phials, fter exposure for some time to the direct ys of the sun, it emits sufficient light in the ,irk to render visible the figures on the dial- ate of a watch. Bolognianj Phosphorus. Syn. Keechee’s lOSPHOEXJS, BoLOGNIAX STONE. This sub- lance was accidentally discovered by a shoe- [aker of Bologna, and excited much interest )0ut the middle of the 17th century. The flowing is said to have been the formula aployed by the Logani family, who were irticularly successful in its preparation, and iquired wealth by its sale to the curious roughout Europe. Prep. Reduce recently calcined native sul- 'ate of baryta to powder, make it into a i ste with mucilage of gum tragacanth, and ill the mass into pieces about ^ inch thick d 1 to 2 inches long; dry these slowly by a oderate heat, and then expose them to igni- )n in a wind furnace, by placing them loosely long the charcoal; lastly, allow them to ol slowly, and at once place the pieces in ?ll-stopped phials. Like the preceding bstance, it phosphoresces in the dark after posure to the sun’s rays. Canton’s Phosphorus. Prep. From calcined ster shells, 3 parts; flowers of sulphur, 1 rt; placed in alternate layers in a covered ucible, and exposed to a strong heat for out an hour. It is preserved and used like e above. jHomberg’s Phosphorus. Recently ignited \hride of calcium. [Kercher’s Phosphorus. See Bolognian ilOSPHOEUS. PHOSPHORUS BASES. Under this head che- mists include various substances, analogous to organic bases, but containing phosphorus in- stead of nitrogen. Those fully examined are phosphuretted methyl-bodies, partly liquid and partly solid, obtained by passing a current of chloride of methyl over a layer of phos- phuret of calcium heated to about 356° Fahr. From the mixed product, three distinct sub- stances have been eliminated by M. Paul Thenard, two of which are powerfully basic. PHOSPHORUS BOTTLES. Prep. 1. Phos- phorus, 12 gr.; olive oil, ^ oz.; mix in an oz. phial, and place the latter, loosely corked, in a basin of hot water ; as soon as the phosphorus is melted, remove the phial, cork it securely, and agitate it ’until nearly cold. On being uncorked, it emits sufficient light in the dark to see the time [by a watch, and will retain this property for some years if not too fre- quently employed. These are frequently called ‘ LTJMINOrS PHIALS.’ 2. (Beiqhets phosphoeiques.)—a. From phosphorus, 3 parts; white wax, 1 part; cau- tiously melted together by the heat of hot water; as the mixture begins to cool, the bottles are turned round, so that it may adhere to the sides. b. (Bendix.) CorJc (rasped small, and dry) and yellow wax, of each, 1 part; phosphorus, 4 parts; petroleum, 8 parts; mixed, by fusion, as the last. Used as instantaneous-light bottles. A sulphur match rubbed against the composi- tion immediately inflames on exposure to the air. They should be only unstoppered at the instant of introducing the match, and should be handled with caution. PHOSPHORUS MATCHES. See Matches, and above. PHOSPHORUS PASTE. Syn. Anti-aese- NICAL EAT-POISON, PhOSPHOE-PASTE. Prep. 1. Phosphorus, 1 oz.; warm water, 1 pint; place them in a bottle, cork it, and agitate them well together, until the phosphorus is reduced to a minute state of division, adding towards the end moist sugar, ^ lb. ; next add of lard (melted by a gentle heat), 1 lb., and repeat the agitation until the whole is nearly cold; when cold, form it into a stiff dough with oatmeal or barley meal, and make this into small balls or cakes; lastly, dry these in the air, without artiflcial heat. 2. (Simon.) Phosphorus, 8 parts; water (lukewarm), 180 parts; mix in a mortar, and add of rye meal, 180 parts; when cold, fur- ther add of butter or lard, 180 parts; sugar, 125 parts; and mix the whole thoroughly to- gether. This is the formula authorised by an ordonnance of the Prussian Government, dated April 27th, 1843. Obs. Rats, mice, &c., eat the above compo- sition with avidity, after wffiich they soon die. It is said that the best method of using it is to place small pieces of it in and about the holes, with some water in a shallow vessel for