EXTRACT. 613 4. (Dry; EiSSENTIAL SALT OF BAEK ; Ex- I TIJACTUM CINCHONiE SICCUM, L.)—a. (P. j Cotl.) From an aqueous infusion of pale baric j (prepared by displacement with water at a temperature not above 77° Fahr.), evaporated to the consistence of a thick syrup, and then I spread thinly and uniformly on earthenware I dishes, or sheets of glass, and dried in a stove, , by a very gentle heat. It is separated from the plates with a knife, and preserved in well- closed phials. Prior to spreading it out on the plates, about 4g or 5g of thick mucilage is commonly added. h. (Ph. Ror.) As the above (nearly), j c. (Ph. Hann. 1831.) Similar to the above; but the liquid when it acquires the consistence I of treacle, is diluted with water, and again I evaporated to a like consistence; and this I dilution and evaporation is repeated until, on I the addition of water, it forms a clear solution. I Bose. 5 to 25 gr. The product of the last ! formula is nearly inert, and that of the others 1 possesses little activity. 5. (Fluid; ExtEACTUM CINCHOXiE FLUI- DUM, L.)—a. See Liqtjoe of Cinchona. h. (Dr. Neligan.) From yellow bark, as FLUID EXTEACT OF BUCHU. ! 6. (Resinous; Alcoholic exteact of j BAEK; ExtEACTUM CINCHON.E ALCOHOLI- CUM, E. ciNCHON.®, L.)—a. (Ph. E.) From I any variety of cinchona bark (in powder), 4 i oz.; proof spirit, 24 fl. oz.; prepare a tincture by displacement, distil off most of the spirit, and evaporate the residuum to the consistence of an extract. This is the only exteactum i ciNCHONiE of the Edinburgh College. ; b. (Ph. U. S.) Peruvian bark, 1 lb.; rectified j spirit, 4 pints; make 4 pints of tincture by displacement; add water to the mass in the j percolator, digest, and obtain 6 pints of in- i fusion; distil olf the spirit from the tincture, jn and evaporate the infusion to the consistence of syrup, then mix the two, and complete the evaporation. More active than the aqueous extract. Bose. 5 to 20 gr. c. (Ellis.) Yellow bark, 2 lb.; hydrochloric ' acid, 4 fl. dr.; water, 1 gall.; boil, strain, and repeat the decoction with fresh water and acid; mix the decoctions, filter, and agitate it with fresh-slaked lime, oz.; filter or decant; j dry the residuum, and exhaust it with hot alcohol, q. s.; lastly, evaporate the alcoholic I tincture to a pilular consistence. Bose. 1 to j 5 gr. Some persons have proposed to call I this ‘ ESSENTIAL SALT OF BAEK.’ ' 7. (Vinous;—Exteactum cinchon.® vi- NOSUM, L.—Ph. Hesse.) Peruvian bark (in powder), 1 part; while wine (sherry), 8 parts; ; digest 3 days, express, filter, and evaporate. Extract of Coc'cuius. Syn. Exteact of I COCCULUS INDICES, RlACK EXTEACT, ExTEACT ' (Brewer’s), Beee steengthenee, Haed mul- ! TUM ; Exteactum cocculi, E. c. indici, j L. Prep. From cocculus indicus, by decoction, i It is kept in two states—one having the con- ! sistence of thick treacle; the other, that of a pilular extract. The first is ‘put up’ in bladders; the last is made into ^ lb. rolls, like lead plaster or roll-chocolate. It is narcotic and poisonous, and is employed by fraudulent brewers and publicans to give a false strength to their liquors. See CoccULUS INDICES, Beee, &c. Extract of Col'chicum. Syn. Exteact op meadow saffeon, E. of the coems of col- CHicuM; Exteactum colchici (Ph. L.), Ext. c. coemi, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) From the fresh corms or bulbs of meadow saffron (having removed the outer coat), as exteact OF aconite—Ph. L. 2. (Wholesale.) From the decoction of the dried corms. Prod. 50g to 55g. Obs. This extract is given in the usual cases in which colchicum is employed. Bose. 1 to 4 gr., every third or fourth hour. (Thomson.) “ A favorite remedy of Dr. Hue, of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, in the early stages of acute x'heumatisra. The dose is 1 gr. every four hours.” (Pereira.) 3. (Acetic; Acetic bxteact of meadow SAFFEON ; ExtEACTUM COLCHICI ACETICUM— Ph. L. & E., E. COEMI c. A., L.)—a. (Ph. L.) Fresh corms or bulbs, 1 lb.; remove th« outer coating, bruise them, and sprinkle on them, gradually, acetic acid, 3 fl. oz.; then express the juice, and, unstrained, evaporate it to a proper consistence, in wedgewood-ware or earthen vessels. b. (Wholesale.) Dried corms, 14 lb. ; acetic acid (pyroligneous), 6 pints; distilled water, gall.; digest for 14 days, express, filter, and evaporate. Product, 2| to 3 lb. Obs. The above extracts are generally pre- pared from the dried corms, and hence the very uncertain and inferior quality of those commonly met with. They also possess less activity than the pharmacopoeial preparations. They rapidly get dry and crumbly, and, un- less a little spirit and oil of cloves are added, will scarcely keep a week in warm weather without becoming mouldy. Bose. 1 to 3 gr., two or three times a day. It is much stronger than the common extract, and contains the acetate of colchicine. Sir C. Scudamore prefers the acetic extract prepared by the formula b {above). 4. (Alcoholic; Exteactum colchici alco- HOLicuM, L.—P. Cod.). As exteact of box. More active than even the acetic extract. All the preparations of colchicum are poisonous in large doses. Extract of Col'ocyiith. Syn. Exteact of bittee apple; Exteactum colocynthidis (Ph. L. & E.), E. c. simplex, E. c. molle, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) From colocynth pulp (cut in pieces and the seeds removed), by simple maceration in cold water, for 36 hours, frequently pressing it with the hands, and afterwards strongly pressing out the liquor, which must be strained before evaporating it. 2. (Ph. E.) From the decoction. This is the plan adopted at Apothecaries' Hall, and