OXYRRHODINE—OZONE. 1024 acid (1’048), pint; as before. This con- tains too mucli vinegar. (See No. 1.) 4. (Wholesale.) From honey (thick and good), 12 Ih. ; melt it by a gentle heat, add of distilled vinegar (of fully 5}i), 2 quarts, and strain the mixture through flannel. No eva- poration is required. Uses, Sfc. Demulcent and refrigerant. Dose. 1 to 4 fl. dr., either gradually sucked from the spoon or diffused through some simple liquid. Dissolved in water, it forms a useful and pleasant cooling drink or gargle in fevers, sore throats, hoarseness, &c.; but in some in- dividuals it occasions griping. It is commonly used as an adjunct, in mixtures, &c. Oxymel of Squills. Syn. Honey oe squills ; j Mel sciLLiE (Ph. L.), O. scilliticum, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Vinegar of squills, 2| pints; gently evaporate it to 12 fl. oz., and add of honey (previously made hot), 5 lb. 2. (Ph. L. 1836.) Strained honey, 3 lb.; vinegar of squills, 1^ pint; boil to a proper consistence. The formula of the Ph. D. 1826 was similar. Uses, 4'c. Expectorant, and in large doses nauseant. Dose, i to 2 fl. dr.; in chronic coughs, hoarseness, humoral asthma, &c. Oxymel of Ver'digris. See Liniment. OXYR'RHODINE. Syn. Oxyeehodinon. An old compound formed of 1 part of vinegar of roses and 2 parts of oil of roses. OXYSAC'CHARUM. A syrup acidulated with vinegar. See Syeup. OXYSUL'PHURET. Syn. Oxysulphuee- TUM, L. A name given to certain compounds under the supposition of their being direct combinations of sulphur with an oxide. In general, they are mere mixtures of the sul- phuret and oxide or hydrate of the base, in | indefinite and accidental proportions. See | Antimony, Oxysulphueet, &c. | OYS'TER. Syn. Osteea, L. This well-1 known shell-fish is the Ostrea edulis (Linn.), j Oysters are nutritious and easy of digestion, when fresh, but are apt to prove laxative to those unaccustomed to their use. They are in season each month of the year the name of which contains the letter R. The ies/British oysters are found at Purfleet; the worst near Liverpool. Colchester, and other places in Essex, 2iVQ the great nurseries or feeding-grounds for supplying the metropolis, and, indeed, the whole of England, with the most esteemed va- riety (natives) of this shell-fish. The shells (test.® peepaeat^, t. osteeaei^) were for- merly used in medicine as an absorbent. See Shell-fish, Sauces, &c. OZE'NA. Syn. Ozjsna. A malignant ulcer in the nose, attended with a copious discharge of fetid purulent matter, and, not unfrequently, with caries and exfoliation of the bones. It often has a scrofulous or syphilitic origin, and then requires corresponding treatment. Its character, in all cases, is such as to require prompt and skilful medical treatment. O'ZONE, A body having a peculiar and somewhat metallic odour and remai’kable che mical activity. When first discovered, it wae supposed to be a new elementary principle, analogous to chlorine, but is now shown to be OXYHEN in a second or ‘allotropic’ state (ozo nized), in which it exhibits increased activity and new properties. , This alteration in pro perties probably arises from an altered elec trical condition.^ Ozone was discovered by Schonbein, and i< j has since been elaborately studied by Andrews I Baumert, Becquerel, Berzelius, De la Rive j Erdmann, Fremy, Marchand, Marignac, Rhum- j korff, Schonbein, Tait, Williamson, and others but more particularly by its discoverer. The ozonizalion of oxygen or atmospheru air may be effected— 1. (Chemically.)—a. From phosphorus'f\yov\ half covered with water, and immersed ii i oxygen, under only \ or ith the usual pressun j of the atmosphere, or under the ordinary pres ! sure (preferably the former) at 75° to 97° Fabr The gas is soon found in a highly ozonizec condition. b. By passing a current of moist air througl a succession of large Wolfe’s bottles contain- [ ing each a few sticks of clean qjhosphot'us, and finally through a U-tube containing water 01 dilute alkali. c. A stick of phosphorus, about 2 inches in length, and about one half covered with water, is placed in a flask, of the capacity of 13C litres, filled with atmospheric air; the moutli is then loosely closed with a cork or stopper, and the whole allowed to repose at 61° to 70 Fahr. Phosphorous vapours are soon deve- loped, and ozonization commences. After some hours the air of the flask manifests the peculiai odour and effects of ozone in a powerful degree d. By plunging a heated glass rod into fl mixture of air and ether-vapour. 2. (By electric discharges.)—a. By passing n succession of electrical discharges through pun and perfectly dry oxygen, contained in a stop- pered bottle or tube (1 by several inches long) furnished with two platinum points passing through, and fused into opposite parts, so tha‘ they are 4 or 5'" apart; the one being con nected with a powerful electrical machine, am the other with the earth. Atmospheric air h also ozonized when treated in a similar manner b. A series of electrical sparks are passer along the surface of a sealed glass tube con- taining pure dry oxygen. The gas is ozonizec by induction. The same occurs with atnio spheric air. In the grand laboratory of na ture air is thus ozonized by a flash of lightning at the distance of several hundred yards. 3. (By electrolysis.)—a. By passing a pow erful voltaic current through a mixture of 1 1 Accortling to 'Williamson and Banmcrt, the ozone pro duced l)y electrolysis is a teuoxide or nynEOGKX, as i probably also that produced by the oxidation of phos phorus; but the recent experiments of Andrews and lai seem to have established I he correctness of the forme view, which makes ozone, however produced, a pecuha; modification of oxygen.