125 ALUMINA. ' (forming salts), and in solution of caustic I potassa and soda (from which it is precipitable by sal ammoniac); when anhydrous (as after I ignition), it is scarcely acted on by acids, and I when perfectly indurated, or crystallised, it is I wholly insoluble; but on ignition with alkalies, ! alkaline alu'minates are formed, and the alumina is then readily dissolved by acids. I Its SALTS are mostly colourless, non-volatile, I and soluble; they have a very astringent and I somewhat sweetish taste, redden litmus paper, ' and lose their acids by ignition. Its most remarkable, or rather useful property, is its I strong affinity for the fibres of organic bodies, as cotton, fiax, silk, wool, &c., which are capable of taking it from its salts; and also for organic colouring matters. Hence its great use in dyeing, and in bleaching liquids and the preparation of laTces. Hydrate of alumina agitated or digested with liquids cou- ! taining vegetable colouring matter, combines j with the latter, and either entirely, or to a great extent, removes it from the solution. Moist precipitated alumina, dried at a heat between 70° and 80°, contains above 58^ of water (octohy'drate oe alumina) ; dried at 212° Fahr., about 32g of water (teehy'drate OF alumina). Tests.—1. Ammonia and the alkaline car- j bonates separate a bulky white powder (‘hy- i drate of alumina^) from solutions of its salts, which is insoluble in excess of the precipitant: — 2. Pure potassa and soda throw down white gelatinous precipitates, freely soluble in excess of the precipitant; from which the alumina I is reprecipilaled by hydrochlorate of ammonia, I even in the cold3. Phosphate of ammonia [ gives a white precipitate:—4. Iodide of potas- i sium produces a while precipitate, passing into I a permanent yellow:—5. Sulphuretted hydro- I gen, oxalate of ammonia, tartaric acid, ferro- cyanide of potassium, or tincture of galls, does not disturb their solutions :—6. Hydro- sulphuret of ammonia precipitates hydrate of alumina from these solutions :—7. Bisulphate of potassa, added to concentrated solutions, gives a precipitate of octahedral crystals of alum :—8. At a red-heat its salts part with some of their acid; at a white heat, most of it, if not all :—9. Alumina, and its compounds, ignited on charcoal before the blow-pipe, and afterwards moistened with a solution of proto- nitrate of cobalt and again strongly ignited, i give an unfused mass, which, on cooling, appears blue by day, and violet by candlelight; a test, however, which is inapplicable to fusible com- pounds of alumina, and such as are not free, or nearly free, from other oxides. Estim. Alumina is weighed as such, after ignition. The solubility of the 7noiyf or re- cently preciqnlated hydrate in solutions of ‘ caustic potassa’ and ‘ caustic soda,’ enable us to separate it from the alkaline earths which, when present, are thrown down with it. The same may be eliected by taking ad- vantage of the unequal decomposnbility of the ‘ nitrates’ of the ‘ alkaline earths’ by heat. The whole must be converted into nitrates, and gradually heated in a platinum-capsule to from 450 to 490° Fahr., or imtil nitrous acid vapours are evolved. The residuum is moist- ened with a strong solution of nitrate of am- monia, and gently heated, (to convert any insoluble basic nitrate of magnesia into the ‘ soluble’ nitrate,) and is then digested in hot water when the alumina remains undis- solved. Uses, 8fc. The moist hydrate is used in several processes in the arts. It is the base of ^ cobalt-blue,’ the ‘ lake-pigments,’ &c. In medicine, it is employed as an antacid and as- tringent, in acidity of the stomach, cholera, diarrhoea, and dysentery; in wffiich it is said to be superior to the other absorbent remedies. (Ficinus.) It has also been highly recom- mended in the vomiting and diarrhoea of in- fancy. (Durr; Neumann; Weese ; &c.)—Dose. Children, 3 to 10 gr.; adults, 5 or 6 to 20 or even 30 gr., three to six times daily, suspended in water % mucilage or simple syrup. See Alum, Aluminic Acid, Aluminium, Alumi- nous Earths, &c. (also belong. Ac'etate of Alumina (^'-). Syn. Alu'minje ace'tas, Aroil'la ace'tica*, L. Prep. 1. Pure hydrate of alumina is digested, to satura- tion, in strong acetic acid, in the cold; and the resulting solution, after being filtered or de- canted, is either evaporated by a very gentle heat to a gelatinous, semi-solid consistence (its usual form), or is preserved in the liquid state. By spontaneous evaporation it may be obtained in long, transparent crystals. 2. (Pereira.) Alum, 476 gr.; crystallised acetate of lead, 760 gr.; dissolve them sepa- rately in water, and mix the solutions. The filtered liquid contains the acetate of alu- mina combined w’ith some acetate of potassa. It should not be rendered turbid by dilute sulphuric acid, nor be blackened by sulphu- retted hydrogen or hydrosulphuret of am- monia. 3. Add a solution of acetate of baryta to another of sulphate of alumina, as long as a precipitate falls, carefully avoiding excess of the barytic salt, and filter, &c., as before. A poi-tion of filtrate should not be disturbed or give a white pi'ecipitate when tested with a drop of dilute sulphuric acid. 4. (Bed liquor.)—a. From alum, in pow'^der., 4 parts; warm water^ q. s. to dissolve; acetate of lead, in powder, 3 parts; the solution and mixture being effected by lengthened agitation in a tub or other wooden vessels, and the clear liquid, after repose for a sufficient time, decanted or drawn off' from the sediment. b. From alum, 2 parts; (dissolved in) warm, water, q. s.; solution of pyrolignite of lime (20° Banme), 3 parts; as before, but allowing a longer time for the subsidence of the preck- ’ A drop of ‘liquor of ammonia’ added to tliis water v^ill not render it turbid wlien the heating of the nitrates has been continued suthcieutly long.