1288 TODDY—TOLUIDINE. This arises from the active and volatile ingre- dients being liberated from their previous combination, by the ammonia developed by fermentation, or the action of a stronger base. Tobacco contains a considerable quantity of Jiydrochlorate of ammonia, and this substance, as is well known, when placed in contact with lime or potassa, immediately evolves free am- monia. If we reverse the case, and saturate the excess of alkali in prepared tobacco by the addition of any mild acid, its characteristic odour entirely disappears. In the preparation of tobacco previously to its manufacture for sale, these changes are effected by a species of fermentation. The tobacco, either unprepared or cut into pieces, is placed in layers or heaps, and sprinkled with a weak solution of common salt and water (about the sp. gr. 1T07), or * sauce,’ as it is called, the salt being added to prevent the tobacco becoming mouldy, and to keep it moist, as well as to moderate the fermentation. Molasses is also frequently added to the sauce when a violet or dark coloured product is desired; and some persons, with a like intention, add a decoction or solu- tion of extract of liquorice. Pure water, without any addition, is, however, quite suffi- cient to promote and maintain the perfect fermentation of tobacco, and, of late years, the larger and more respectable houses assert that they have employed nothing else. The leaves soon become hot and evolve ammonia; during this time the heaps require to be occa- sionally opened up and turned over, lest they become too hot, take fire, or run into the putrefactive fermentation. The extent to which the process is allowed to proceed varies, for different kinds of snuff or tobacco, from one to three months. Pur. The cheap tobacco vended in the shops is largely adulterated. Tobacco is now offered for sale at 3c?. per ounce, i. e. 4s. per pound, while the duty alone amounts to about 3s. 3d., thus leaving only 9d. to be divided among the grower, the importer, the manu- facturer, and the retailer; besides which there is a loss by weighing it out in small quan- tities, and by evaporation. It is scarcely pos- sible for this tobacco to be genuine. It is a general practice to moisten it with treacle water, in which a little saltpetre has been dis- solved, for the purpose of making it sufficiently adhesive to retain they?we sand which is after- wards added, and to make it burn well. All this is done to increase the weight. When foreign vegetable matter is mixed with tobacco, Bengal safflower (at the price of 28s. per cwt.) is preferred. It is infused in a very weak solution of potassa or ammonia; the former giving a dark brown colour, resembling ‘ sha&,^ and the latter a light brown, approaching in appearance to ‘ eetuens.’ Considerable loss, however, having occurred from some of the vegetable matter being dissolved oiit, an im- provement has been lately introduced; the safflower, having been moistened, is placed in trays in an empty sugar hogshead or other suitable cask, into which the ammoniacal gas is allowed to pass. By this process the weight is increased; w'hereas, by the earlier methods of preparing it, a loss of one half was sustained. (‘ Chemist,’ iii, 304.) Another means of profit is the use of extremely heavy paper (rich in plaster) for wrappers. In a trial a few years ago, a London tobacconist admitted clearing £2 per week, by thus selling paper at 4s. per lb. that cost him only 3^d. Qual., 8fc. Tobacco is a powerful narcotic, sedative, and emetic; and is also cathartic and diuretic; but the last in a weaker degree than either squills or foxglove. Its action is vio- lently depressing and relaxing, producing fainting, and even death, in comparatively small quantities. Toxicologists rank it among the more active narcotico-acrid poisons; and physicians, when they wish to produce sudden physical prostration, in accidents or spasmodic diseases, order an enema of the infusion or smoke of tobacco. (See page 565.) Its dele- terious properties depend on the presence of NICOTINE, one of the most frightful vegetable poisons known (see page 938), of which ordi- nary Virginia tobacco contains from 6 to 7§. Yet of such a vegetable substance, so rich in such a deadly poison, upwards of 30,000,000 lb. are said to be annually consumed in the British islands alone, by smokers and snuffers. British Tobacco. Sgn. Heeb ^iOBACCO; Tabacum Anglicitm, Species steenutoem, L. Prep. Take of thyme, marjoram, and hyssop, of each, 2 oz.; betony and eyebright, 3 oz.; rosemary and lavender, of each, 4 oz.; ^ coltsfoot, 1 lb.; mix, press them together, and fl cut the mass in imitation of manufactured M foreign tobacco. Some asthmatic subjects add ifl 5 or 6 oz. of stramonium or thorn-apple leaves; § others add ^ lb. of genuine tobacco. „ Indian Tobacco. See Lobelia. I TOD'DY. Obtained from various species of 3 palms, by cutting off the end of the flowering B bud, and collecting the sap. Used, fresh, as ■ a cooling beverage; and, after fermentation, fl as an intoxicating one. Sweetened grog is so A called in Cornwall, and in some other parts of j England. 4 TOF'FY. Syn. Eveeton toeey. A sweet- meat prepared by heating brown sugar, in a r saucepan or skillet, with about one half its L weight of fresh butter, for 15 to 20 minutes, or until a ‘ little of it dropped into cold water c forms a lump that breaks crisply;’ it is then ] poured into a buttered tin mould. \ TOLENE'. A volatile, colourless liquid, ob- tained, along with benzoic acid and CiN- ,' NAMEIN, when balsam of Tolu is distilled along with water. It boils at 338° Fahr. TOLU' BALSAM. See page 262. TOLU'IDINE. An organic base obtained by the action of sulphuret of ammonium on nitro- toluol, in the manner adopted for aniline. It forms colourless crystals, sparingly soluble in 1 water, freely soluble in alcohol and ether, is