964 OILS (MINERAL). with attar of roses, is now almost universally sold for it. Used for the hair. Oil of Rue. Syn. Oleum etjtje (infusum), L. Prep. (P. Cod.) From fresh rue, bruised, as OIL OF CHAMOMILE. Reputed antispasmodic, emmenagogue, stimulant, and vermifuge. In frictions. Oil of St. John’s Wort. Syn. Oleum hy- PEEici (Ph. L. 1746), 0. H. SIMPLEX, Bal- SAMUM H., L. From the flowers, 1 part; olive oil, 6 parts; digested together until the oil is well coloured. Antispasmodic, stimulant, and resolvent. A mixture of equal parts of EAPE OIL and GEEEN ELDEE OIL is usually sold for it. Oil of Scam'mony. Syn. Oleum scam- MOXII, 0. PUEGANS, L. Prep. (Van Mons.) From scammony (in powder), 1 dr.; hot oil of almonds, 3 fl. oz.; triturate together until cold, and the next day decant the clear portion. Dose, i to 1 table-spoonful. Oil of Stramo"nium. Syn. Oleum stea- monii, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) From the leaves of thorn apple or stramonium, as oil of bel- ladonna. Anodyne and discussive; as an application to painful tumours, joints, &c. Oil of Tohac'co (by Infusion). Syn. Oleum TABACI, O. T. INFUSUM, L. From fresh to- bacco leaves (bruised), like oil of chamo- mile. As an application in ringworm, irri- table ulcers, pediculi, &c.; and as a friction in itch, neuralgia, painful indurations, &c. It must be used with extreme caution, as it is poisonous. Oil of Tooth'wort. Syn. Oleum SQUAMAEiiE, L. From the herb of Lathrcea squamaria (Linn.), as oil of St. John’s woet. Astrin- gent and vulnerary. This must not be con- founded with another preparation sometimes called ‘ OIL of toothwoet ’ (oleum plum- BAGiNis Eueop.®.®;), and which has been occasionally used in itch, as the latter is acrid and apt to cause much irritation. Oil of Worm'wood. Syn. Oleum absinthii, L. From the fresh herb, as oil of lilies. The P. Cod. and Ph. Wurtem. order only 1 part of the herb to 8 parts of oil. Applied to the abdomen in dyspepsia, diarrhoea, heart- burn, worms, &c. It is seldom used in this country. OILS (Mineral). Syn. Htdeocaebon oils. An important class of liquids, consisting solely of CAEBON and hydeogen—the elements of ordinary coal-gas—and obtained by the dis- tillation of COAL, LIGNITE, PETEOLEUM, and other BITUMINOUS substances. For the pur- poses of illumination, many of these oils are in most respects superior to the fixed or fat OILS containing oxygen. They give a whiter and more brilliant light, and are produced at a much lower cost. The lamps in which they are burnt, when properly constructed, are less liable to get out of order than those adapted for the combustion of fat oils, and require less attention when in use. The experiments of Dr. Frankland on the relative value of the ' ordinary illuminating agents,^ prove that the mineral oils are cheaper than all other portable illuminating agents in common use, and that they give, while burning, the largest amount of LIGHT with the least development of heat, and the smallest production of caebonic acid. With the oils adapted for burning in lamps other oils are produced. Some are very vola- tile and highly inflammable, and the safety of the burning oils depends on their proper extraction. These volatile liquids, when iso- lated, are used in the arts as substitutes for spirits of turpentine, as solvents for various substances, and to increase the illuminating power of coal-gas. Others are of a greasy nature, and are too heavy to be conveniently used in lamps. These, however, are well adapted for lubricating flne machinery, and are extensively employed instead of bpeem OIL by the cotton manufacturers of Lancashire. The distillation of coal, lignite, and petroleum, has of late become a very extensive and highly important branch of industry, and although great loss of life and property has resulted from accidents with unpurifled and explosive mineral oils, the demand for the products is daily increasing. When the more volatile ingredients are separated from the burning oils, the latter are perfectly safe. (See Tests, below. Hist. For many years the manufacture of burning oils by the distillation of bituminous SCHISTS has been extensively carried out on the Continent, but the discovery which formed the foundation of the modern manufacture was made only fourteen years ago by our countryman, Mr. James Young. This gentle- man took the lease of a spring of petroleum in 1847, and after numerous experiments suc- ceeded in obtaining two useful oils from the crude liquid; the one being adapted for lu- bricating machinery, and the other for burning in lamps. The almost total cessation of the flow of petroleum terminated the business after two years’ working, and led Mr. Young to institute a series of experiments, to try if petroleum could be produced artificially by the destructive distillation of coal. These experiments resulted in the discovery of an oil which Mr. Young named ‘ paeaffin oil,’ as it had many of the chemical properties of the solid body paeaffin, discovered twenty years before by Reichenbach in beech-wood tar. Young’s patent (dated Oct. 7, 1850) involved the slower distillation of coals, at a lower temperature than had hitherto been em- ployed for the purpose, and this novelty in practice was followed hy the novel result of a copious production of liquid hydrocarbons. The GAS or cannel coals were found to yieldf the liquids in largest quantities, that variety known as Boghead coal or Toebane Hili mineeal being specially adapted for the patented process. (See Paeaffin Oyl, below f Soon after Young’s discovery native peteo- 1 See article Illumination, 753. ij