AMMONIA. 146 t angular cast-iron vats, of very moderate depth, and capable of holding from 1000 to 1500 gallons, or more. These are encased in brick- work, and are heated by a furnace, of which the * flues’ pass in a sinuous course beneath the lining of brickwork on which the vats or pans rest. During the concentration of the liquid, the tar, &c., which separates and floats on the surface, and which thus seriously im- pedes evaporation, is, from time to time, re- moved by skimming. As soon as the sp. gr. reaches 1-25, any excess of acid in the ‘solu- tion’ is exactly neutralised with a little fresh ammoniacal liquor; by which any waste of acid is prevented, at the same time that any ‘ferric salt’ present, and which would con- taminate the ultimate product, is precipitated as sesquioxide. After ‘settling’ for a short time, the hot liquor is ready to be transferred to the ‘ crystallisers.’ The vessels employed in the cetstallisa- TION are pans or tubs, usually circular, and about 7 or 8 feet wide, by 2^ to 3 feet deep; and are generally set on the ground, or are embedded either partially or wholly in it. The ‘saline liquor’ being pumped or ‘run’ into them at a little below the boiling tem- perature, crystallises as it cools; the only in- terference being occasional stirring or agita- tion, to prevent the formation of large crystals, which would be inconvenient in the subse- quent part of the process. The time occupied in the crystallisation varies, according to the size of the ‘crystallisers,’ and the w’eather, from 3 or 4 to 8 or even 10 days. The ‘ mother- liquor’ of the ‘crystallisers’ is pumped back into the evaporating pans for further concen- tration. The crude blackish salt (hydrochlo- rate) thus obtained is contaminated with tarry and oleaginous matter, free acid, w^ater, &c. ; from part of which it is freed by exposing it i in a layer about 4 inches deep, on a cast-iron plate gently heated by a ‘zigzag’ flue of a small furnace, \mtil all the water is expelled; care being taken that the heat never rises high enough to volatilise the salt. This ope- ; ration is generally performed under a dome, or the expanded throat of a large chimney. The salt will now have become of a grayish-white colour, and is ready for the next operation. The ‘crude dry salt’ of the last process is finally purified by sublimation. For this purpose cast-iron pots lined with clay, and heated from below and by ‘ flues’ round their I sides, are employed. (See engr.) The crude \ gray-salt is beaten down into these ‘pots’ until they are about 2-3rds filled, when the ‘heads’ or ‘capitols’ are fitted on, and heat applied. The latter are very heavy, being usually made of lead (sometimes of iron), and have the form of a ‘ dome,’ or a hemispherical cup, with a small tube or hole at the apex, in which a plug is loosely placed, to permit the escape of steam. These ‘domes’ or ‘heads’ are so made as to fit closely and firmly on the flat rim or flange of the ‘ sublimers ’; and are retained in their places, during use, both by their w^eight, and by 2 or 3 clamps provided for the purpose. They are also furnished wdth 3 rings, set at equal distances, to allow’- of their being lifted off, or moved, by means of a pulley and chains. The due application and regula- - Hon of the heat is here of the utmost import- ance. If the temperature employed be too high, the sublimed salt will be contaminated Avith empyreumatic matter, whilst some of it wall be carried beyond the dome and lost; and if it be extreme, the ‘ head’ may be altogether ‘ blow’ll off,’ and the contents of the pan scat- tered about the building; w’hilst on the other hand, if the heat employed be too low, th( resulting cake of sal-ammonia will be soft spongy, and either gray or yellowish. Th( proper temperature is said to be knowm by tw’( or three drops of water readily boiling, anc being dissipated in vapour, w’hen placed oi the head or cover of the sublimer; but il should not ‘spit’ or ‘dance about,’ or b( raised by the heat out of contact with th( metal. The usual practice is to keep the fireii “ briskly up until the sublimers and their sur roundings attain a sufficient degree of heat they are then slackened, and maintained at i 1 mean temperature.” (Muspratt.) Thesublima, ’ tion occupies from 5 to 9 days; but it is cus ‘ tomary to raise the ‘heads’ once, or even twic(! ' a week, to ascertain the progress made; the ' fires having been purposely neglected or cheekec I for some hours previously. The process i' t finally stopped before the ivhole of the crude salt in the pots is volatilised; since the heaii required for that purpose would lead to th(. decomposition of the carbonaceous impuritiesf and cause them to emit volatile hydrocarbons!