BALSAM. 258 which are liquid or soft solid, and consist of a substance resembling a resin, either combined with benzoic acid, or with an essential oil, or both.” (Branfe.) Formerly, many compound medicines, from their consistence, and tlie presumption that they possessed ‘balsamic’ qualities, were termed balsams; and this application of the word is still far from uncommon, particularly among empirics. On the Continent, the words ‘ balsam ’ and ‘ ointment ’ are often confounded. According to M. Soubeiran, the terra ‘ oinl- ment ’ designates a medicine suitable for anointing the body ; whilst ‘ balsam ’ should be restricted to resinous pomata, destined to be applied to injured parts, or such as are likely to be so. Such an application of the word is, however, not only unscientific, but likely to create confusion in pharmaceutical nomen- clature. The leading properties of the true natural balsams are—Insolubility in water, almost entire solubility in alcohol, and partial solu- bility in ether and in the volatile and fixed oils; the possession of a powerful, and gener- ally, an agreeable odour, a hot, resinous or tei-ebinthinate taste, and the usual stimulant and tonic properties of the milder turpentines. Distilled with water, ethereal oil and some acid pass over, and the residuum consists chiefiy or entirely of acid-resin. The TRUE BALSAMS, as those of benzoin, Peru, styraoe, and tolu, and the celebrated Chinese varnish-balsam, contain either benzoic or cinnamic acid. Among those falsely termed balsams, are copaiba, opobalsam, Japan lac- varnish, and some of the turpentines. The following list includes most of the sub- stances, natural and artificial, which pass, or have passed, under the name of balsams : ^— Acous'tic Balsam. See Drops. American Balsamf. Balsam of Peru. An'odyne Balsam. Syn. Sooth'ing bal- sam ; Bal'samum ano'dynum (-din-), B. TRANQUIl'lANS, L, j BaUME an ODIN, B. TRAN- QUILLE, B. TRANQUILLISANT, &C., Fr. Prep. 1. (Bate’s.) See Patent Medicines. 2. (Guy’s.) A vulnerary balsam invented by Guy, of Caliac, once in great repute, but now obsolete. It consisted of aloes, amber, ammoniacum, balsam of Peru, bdellium, carauna, castor, galbanum, labdanum, myrrh, olibdnum, storax, tacamahaca, and Venice turpentine, digested in alcohol. 3. (b. tranquillans, P. Cod.) Fresh leaves of belladonna, henbane, black nightshade, to- bacco, poppies, and stramonium, of each (bruised), 4 oz.; olive oil, 6 pints; heat them together until all the moisture is evaporated, leave them to digest for 2 hours, and then strain with pressure ; next pour the ‘ hot oil ’ on dried ‘ tops ’ of wormwood, hyssop, lavender, marjoram, costmary, round-leaved mint, rue, 1 For articles and preparations often called and not found under this head, see Elixirs, Oils, Patext Medicines, PERruMEuy, Tinctures, &c., &c. sage, and St. John’s wort, and the dried ^fowers’ of elder and rosemary, of each, 1 oz.; macerate for a month, press, strain, and pre- serve the oil in a cool dark place.^ 4. (Baume tranquille de Chomel.) Hen- ' bane, hound’s tongue, and tobacco, of each, 1 lb.; white wine, 3 pints; boil down to a quart; press, strain, and add to the hot ‘strained liquor’ of olive oil, 1 quart, and again boil. Ap'oplexy Balsam. Syn. Bal'samum Apo- plec'ticum, B. ad Apoplec'ticos (Ph. E. 1744), L. Prep. 1. Amber, civet, musk, Pe- ruvian balsam, and some volatile oils, made into a balsam. 2. (Ph. E. 1744.) Expressed oil of nutmeg, 1 oz.; liquefy by a gentle heat, and stir in of the oils of cloves, lavender, and rosemary, of each, 5 dr.; oil of amber, 10 drops; balsam of Peru, 1 dr. Both were formerly used to anoint the head and nostrils of apoplectic patients, and were believed to be of great efficacy. Asiatic Balsamf. Balm of Gilead. Bate’s Balsam. See Anodyne Balsam. Brazilian Balsam. Balsam of copaiba. Calaba' Balsam. Syn. Tacamaha'ca. A fragrant resinous substance produced by calo- phyl’lum cal'aba, or Santa Maria tree. Cam'phor Balsam. Syn. Cam'phorated BALSAM; Bal'samum camphora'tum, &c., L. Prep. 1 As camphor-liniment, Ph. L. 2. (b. ace'ticum c., Sanchez’s Gout-b. :— Pelletier.) Curd-soap and camphor, of each, 5 dr.: oil of thyme, 2 scru.; acetic ether, 5 oz.; digest together in a stoppered bottle until the solids are dissolved. Kecommended as an eificacious anodyne liniment in certain forms of rheumatism and gout. Can'ada Balsam. See Turpentines. Cana'ly Balsam. A volatile oleaginous , substance obtained by distillation from draco- '■ ceph'alum Moldav'icum. Carpathian Balsam. Riga Balsam. Cephal'ic Balsam (Saxon). Syn. Bal'sa- mum cephal'icum Saxon'icum, L. a liquid preparation obtained from the essential oils of I amber, lavender, marjoram, nutmeg, penny-royal, rue, sage, &c., distilled together. Once in j high repute; but long disused in England. Chil'blain Balsam. See Liniments. I Chi'na Balsam Varnish. The aromatic ! varnish-like exudation of au'gia sinen'sis, used I by the Chinese as a varnish or lacquer, for I which purpose it is, perhaps, unequalled. It j is highly fragrant, and abounds in benzoic I acid. I Command'er’s Balsamf. Compound tinctiure j of benzoin. j Copalm'Balsam. Liquid-ambar. I Egyp'tian Balsamf. Balm of Mecca. Fe'male Balsam. Syn. Bal'samum embryo'- num, A'qua e., L. An obsolete preparation made by digesting misletoe, civet, musk, and 2 A specimen of the absurd complexity of French for- mulie.