APPENDIX BRITISH PHARMACOPCEIA. The Pharmacopoeia of 1864, Issued by the General Medical Council of the United Kingdom, appeared when the greater part of this Cyclopsedia had been printed, consequently we are compelled to notice its contents in an Appendix. The work is to supersede the Pharmacopoeias of the London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Colleges—to reconcile the varying usages, in pharmacy and prescriptions, of the people of three countries but pharmaceutists and prescribers do not seem disposed to adopt it in its present form. Its faults are very numerous, and until these are removed by the publication of a corrected edition, the medical profession will probably continue to follow the directions of the Colleges. In the following synopsis the Materia Medica, with the compounds and preparations, are noticed under their English names in alphabetical order; the only synonyms given are the Latin Pharmaceutic names of the Brit. Ph.—except in those cases where a change of nomenclature may render it advisable to give also the old names of Ph. L., E., and D. Articles and processes which have been mate- rially altered or newly introduced are briefly described, and those included in the older Phar- macopoeias are indicated by the pages on which they are noticed in the body of the Cyclopaedia. The "WEIGHTS of the new Pharmacopoeia are the Avoirdupois pound (16 oz., or 7000 gr.), the Avoirdupois ounce (437^) gr.), and the Troy grain. The pound and ounce correspond, there- fore, with those adopted by the Dublin College, and expressed throughout this Cyclopaedia by the italic symbols, lb. and oz. The drachm and scruple are not recognised as separate denomi- nations. The MEASURES are the Imperial measures adopted long ago by the three Colleges (see Table 111, page 891). All liquids are ordered to be measured unless stated otherwise. Acetic Acid. 1. (Acidum Aceticum.) Same as Beaufoy’s {page 20). Sp. gr. 1*044; contains 28§ of anhydrous acid. 2. (Dilute; Acidum Aceticum dilutum.) From acetic acid (1), 1 pint; distilled water, 7 pints. Sp. gr. 1*006; contains 3*5g of dry acid. 3. (Glacial; Acidum Aceticum glaciaie.) Acetate of soda, 20 oz., is liquefied by a gentle heat, stirred till it becomes pulverulent, and then further heated until it fuses; it is at once removed from the fire, and, when cool, the mass is broken up, placed in a 3-pint stoppered retort connected with a Liebig’s condenser, and then treated with sulphuric acid, 8 fl. oz. When the distillation slackens, heat is to be applied, and the process continued until 6 fl. oz. of acetic acid have passed over. If a little of the product strikes a blue colour when mixed with a solution of iodate of potash containing mucilage of starch, the whole product must be agitated with perfectly dry black oxide of man- ganese, \ 02-., and redistilled. Sp. gr. 1*065; contains 85g of dry acid. Aconite—Aconitum. The leaves flower- ing tops of Aconitum Napellus, cultivated in Britain. (See page 40.) Aconite Root—Aconiti Radix. The dried root of the same plant, imported from Ger- many. Aconitia—Aconitia. The alkaloid de- scribed under the name of Aconitine in the present work. The process given in the Brit. Ph. is similar to Headland’s {page 40). Alcohol. Absolute alcohol, prepared by the Ph. D. form (but using 18 oz. instead of 10 oz. of lime), is placed in Appendix as an article employed in analysis. (See page 59— also Spirit, below.) Almond—Amygdala. The sweet Jordan almonds only. (See page 113.) Aloes. Barbadoes aloes (Aloe Barbaden- sis) and Socotrine aloes (Aloe Socotrina) are the only varieties in the Mat. Med. (See page 115.) Alum—Alumen. Sulphate of alumina and potash {page 117). Dried Alum (Alumen exsiccatum). Prepared by Ph. D. process. See Burnt Alum {page 123).