1029 PAPER. I I Good while paper should be perfectly devoid |of odour, and when burnt it should leave a linere nominal amount of ash; digested in hot water, the liquid should be neutral to test paper, and not affected by sulphuretted hydro- gen or the alkaline sulphurets, or by tincture I of iodine. Coloured papers should not contain ;any deleterious matter. I Blis'tering Paper. See Vesicants. i Cloth Paper. This is prepared by covering gauze, calico, canvas, &c., with a surface of paper pulp in a ‘ Foudrinier machine,’ and then jfinishing the compound sheet in a nearly similar manner to that adopted for ordinary paper. Col'oured Paper. For those papers which are merely coloured on one side, the pigments, ground up with gum water or size, or the \stains thickened with a little of the same, are I applied with a brush, after which the sheets are suspended on a line to dry. I For paper coloured throughout its substance, |the tinctorial matter is usually mixed with the \pulp in the process of manufacture; orthemanu- ifactured paper is dipped into a hath of the I colouring substance, and then hung up to dry. j Cop'ying Paper. Prep. Make a stiff oint- ment with butter or lard and blach lead or I lamp black, and smear it thinly and evenly over [soft writing paper, by means of a piece of flan- I nel; the next day wipe off the superfluous portion with a piece of soft rag. j Use, ^c. Placed on white paper and writ- ten on with a style or solid pen, a copy of the j writing is left on the former. By repeating the arrangement, 2, 3, or more copies of a letter may be obtained at once. This paper, set up in a case, forms the ordinary ‘ manifold ! weitee’ of the stationers. The copying or j transfer paper used for obtaining fac-similes of ! letters written with * copying ink,’ is merely ! a superior quality of bank-post paper. I Em'ery Paper. - See Emeey. i Glass Paper. Prep. From powdered glass, as ( EMEEY PAPER. Used to polish wood, &c. See Glass (Powdered). Gout Paper. Syn. Chaeta anti-arthei- TiCA, L.; Papier fayard, Fr. Prep. 1. Eu- i phorbium, 1 part; cantharides, 2 parts; (both in powder;) rectified spirit, 8 parts; ether, 3 parts; digest in a stoppered bottle, with fre- quent agitation, for a week; to the strained tincture add of Venice turpentine, 1 part; I lastly, dip thin white paper into it, and di*y the I sheets in the air. I 2. (Mohr.) Euphorbium, 1 dr.; cantharides, j 4dr.; rectified spirit (strongest), 5 oz.; make : a tincture, to wdiich add of Venice turpentine, lioz., previously liquefied with resin, 2 oz.; and spread the mixture, whilst warm, very thinly on paper. Used as a counter-irritant in gout, rheumatism, &c. Hydrographic Paper. An absurd name given to paper which may be written on with simple I water or with some colourless liquid having I the appearance of water. I Prep. 1. A mixture of nut-galls, 4 parts, and calcined sul})hate of iron, 1 part (both perfectly dry and reduced to very fine powder), is rubbed over the surface of the paper, and is then forced into its pores by powerful pressure, after which the loose portion is brushed off. Writes black with a pen dipped in water. 2. From sesquisulphate of iron and ferrocy- anide of potassium, as the last. Writes blue with water. 3. As the last, but using sulphate of copper instead of sulphate of iron. Writes reddish- brown with water. 4. The paper, is wetted with a colourless solution of ferrocyanide of potassium, and after being dried is written on with a colour- less solution of sesquisuljjhate of iron. Writes BLUE. Obs. The above applications, we need scarcely say, are more amusing than useful. See Sym- pathetic Ink {page 781). Incombustible Paper. See Incombustible Fabrics. Irides'cent Paper. Prep. (Beasley.) Sal ammoniac and sulphate of indigo, of each, 1 part; sulphate of iron, 5 parts ; nut-galls, 8 parts; gum arabic, |th part; boil them in water, and expose the paper washed with the liquid to (the fumes of) ammonia. Is'sue Paper. Syn. Charta ad fonti- CULOS, L. Prep. (Soubeiran.) Elemi, sperma- ceti, and Venice turpentine, of each, 1 part; white wax, 2 parts; melt them together by a gentle heat, and spread the mixture on paper. Used to keep issues open. Lithographic Paper. Prep. 1. Starch, 6 oz.; gum arabic, 2 oz. ; alum, 1 oz.; make a strong solution of each separately, in hot water, mix, strain through gauze, and apply it whilst still warm to one side of leaves of paper, with a clean painting-brush or sponge; a second and a third coat must be given as the preceding one becomes dry; the paper must be, lastly, pressed, to make it smooth. 2. Give the paper 3 coats of thin size, 1 coat of good white starch, and 1 coat of a solution of gamboge in water ; the whole to be applied cold, with a sponge, and each coat to be allowed to dry before the other is applied. The solutions should be freshly made. Use, 8fc. Lithographic paper is written on with lithographic ink. The writing is trans- ferred by simply moistening the back of the paper, placing it evenly on the stone, and then applying pressure. A reversed copy is obtained, which, when printed from, yields corrected copies, resembling the original writing or drawing. In this way the necessity of executing the writing or drawing in a re- versed direction is obviated. See Lithography, Ink, &c. Oiled Paper. Prep. Brush sheets of paper over with ‘ boiled oil,’ and suspend them on a line till dry. Waterproof. Extensively em- ployed as a cheap substitute for bladder and gut skin, to tie over pots and jars, and to wrap up paste blacking, ground white lead, &c.