221 ARSENIOUS ACID. j the crystals is very evident with a microscope i of 4 powers. Oxide of antimony never forms I octahedrons, but only prisms. (Wackenroder.) I The tube is of course broken for examina- I tion. I In employing this test, particular care I must be taken to avoid soiling the sides of i the tube in inserting the mixture, and that , the substances operated on are perfectly diy; , as, unless this is attended to, the experi- j ment does not succeed. The common plan is [ to introduce the mixture through a small I paper funnel or tube extemporised for the purpose. The heat at first should be gentle, I and merely sutficient to expel any adhering I moisture from the mixture and the inner sur- j face of the tube; after which (except where : otherwise ordered) the upper portion of the j mixture should be strongly heated, and then I the bulb or bottom of the tube exposed to the j full flame. After the operation is complete the I bulb or lower portion of the tube is usually : removed by a file, and the portion containing I the deposit hermetically sealed (as in Nos. 6 & 119); when it may be preserved, unaltered, for I any length of time, ready to be produced as i evidence, if required. This test is usually regarded as decisive; j as we here actually obtain the arsenic in a [ solid form, recognisable by the most unequivocal r characters. I For a still more delicate ‘ reduction test,^ i see Sulphuretted hydrogen Test. 1 18. Rensch!‘s Test; Cupro-arsenical Test. The ‘ suspected solution ’ is strongly acidulated with hydrochloric acid (1 to 6 or 8),^ and after [ being raised to ebullition in a porcelain or glass vessel, some bright and clean metallic i copper in the form of gauze, foil, clippings, or I wire, but preferably the firsP-, is added, and the whole boiled together. The time required for the ebullition varies according to the ' strength of the solution ; when weak it should ibe continued for at least a quarter of an hour, i “ When the quantity of arsenic in the sus- Ipected liquid is very small, at least ^ an hour i should elapse before the removal of the copper.” , (Christison). In solutions containing a notable j quantity of arsenic, a few seconds is often I sufficient to obtain a coating ; but which, for j safety sake, may be extended to 2 or 3 minutes, jor even longer. Liquids rich in organic I matter also require longer boiling than those j nearly free from it. The coated copper, which |has now acquired a characteristic iron-gray \colour, free fi-om any tinge of violet, is then I taken from the liquid, carefully washed in dis- ^ A. S. Taylor; 1 to 9 or 10—Christison. The precise proportion is’ not material to the success of this Test, not- Iwithstanding the assertion of several authors to the con- trary. * On account of the more extensive surface which it presents to the action of the liquor. The lincst gauze should be chosen, l)r. A. S. Taylor reconmicnds that it should contain from 12,000 to 1(»,000 apertures to the square inch. (“ 0/i PoisomT 2nd cd., p. 1398.) Haifa square inch is the most conveuient size; but a sq. in., or even more, may be used. tilled water, in alcohol, and (if greasy) in ether, next dried on blotting paper, and then either cut into small pieces or rolled into a small coil or cylinder. It is then heated in a re- duction-tube over a spirit-lamp, when the me- tallic arsenic forming the ‘coating’ is vo- latilised, and yields a sublimate of minute octahedral crystals of arsenious acid ; or, if the tube be very small, or any reducing agent be added, a bright metallic ring, as described under No. 17. When the coating on the copper is sufficiently thick, it may be scraped off with a knife, and heated separately in an arsenic-tube. Susc. Above y.tw.innv (Sachsisches Gew. Bl.); rel. susc., above (Christison)^; but in these high dilutions a’proportionately large quantity of liquid must be operated on. Under a dilution of to ^ thin, but per- ceptible film, may be easily obtained, gr. of arsenic may be thus detected. In these extreme cases, the confirmatory test must be Marsh’s, or some other of that class ; as subli- mation is, of course, here inapplicable. Obs. This test is invaluable as affording a certain and ready means of abstracting arsenic from its solution, whether pure or mixed with organic matter. The ‘ contents of the stomach ’ or other ‘ viscera’ may thus be at once exa- mined, without any tedious preliminary ope- rations. In this way Dr. Christison discovered the presence of arsenic upwards of 4 months after interment; and we have ourselves found it 2 years and 8 months after interment. The coated copper may be preserved unharmed for years. Dr. Taylor found that the l-8th of an inch of one of these deposits that had been kept in paper nearly fourteen years, gave a well-marked ring of octahedral crystals, when heated. See Zinc Test. 19. Sulphuretted Hydrogen Test; Sulphur- Test. This produ(;es a bright-yellow precipi- tate of tersulphuret of arsenic {orpiment) in solutions containing a free acid; but acts slowly and imperfectly on pure and neutral solutions, and does not disturb those that pos- sess an alkaline reaction. The ‘ suspected liquid’ should there.fore be slightly acidulated with hydrochloric or acelic acid before apply- ing this test, unless it be already acid, when it is better first to neutralise it with an alkali, and then to add the acid. The transmission of the gas through the liquid (see engr^ should be con- tinued for at least half ® Even a solution containing onlv the l-l,000,OCOth of a gr. of arsenic, gave an extrenieh'^ tliin, but perceptible film (‘ Siich. Gew. lil.'); but to obtain this the liquiil slioiilil be only aeidnlafecl, the boiling continucil for at least half an bonr, and a reri/ small piece of ‘ l)lanislicd’ copper-wire (previously carefully washed with ether) employed.