339 BLUSHING—BOIL. i 2. A solution of nitrate of cohalt is preci- pitated with ammonia-alum, and the precipitate ' washed, dried, and exposed to a cherry-red heat, as before. The products of the above formulae are very beautiful and permanent, i See COBALTO-IJLTRAMAEINE. Egyp'tian Az'ure, Alexan'drian Frit, Azure ! of the Ancients. A mixture of carbonate of soda, 1 lb.; calcined flints, 1^ lb.; copper , filings, \ lb.; (all in fine powder;) fused toge- ! ther in a crucible for 2 or 3 hours, and when cold, reduced to an impalpable powder. A I beautiful and unchangeable sky-blue colour. Used in both oil and fresco painting; and as a I substitute for smalts, of wdiich, indeed, it is a I variety. ; In'digo (which see). I I'ron-Blue, Fer'ric Blue, Ordinary phos- 2)hate of iron prepared by precipitating a so- I lution of protosulphate of iron with another of i phosphate of soda, the resulting powder being ' washed, and dried at a gentle heat. A lively ' sky-blue colour, but without much depth or body. ; Blue Lake. See Lakes and Sulphate of I Indigo. Molybde'num-Blue. From sulphuret of . molybdenum, dissolved in nitric acid, and soine 1 tin filings and a little muriatic acid added, i After digestion for some time, the clear liquid is poured ofi‘, and evaporated to dryness. The ■ resulting powder is then mixed with moist I hydrate of alumina (as in making cobalt blue), I heated to a very dull red, and when it has I again become cold, reduced to powder. Used ■ both as a paint and an enamel-colour. : Moun'tain-Blue. carbonate of copper, I mixed with more or less earthy matter, re- j duced to fine powder. That of the shops is ' often factitious. Par'is-Blue. Prussian blue. Pow'der-Blue. Smalts, j Prus"sian Blue (which see). I Queen’s Blue. See Stone-blue {below). San'der’s Blue. Ultramarine-ashes. Sax'oii Blue, Saxon Az'ure. A compound of ^ hydrate of alumina and Prussian blue, pre- ‘ pared as follows;— 1. To sulphate of iron, 1 oz.; and alum, 8 oz.; dissolved in water, 1 gal.; add, simul- taneously, separate solutions of prussiate of potash and common pearlash, until they cease ! to produce a precipitate; after repose collect i the deposit, wash it well with water, and dry it. 2. A solution of sulphate of iron is precipi- ; tated with another of prussiate of potash, and instantly mixed with the precipitate which has ;just been obtained by treating a solution of alum with a solution of pearlash ; the ‘ mixed precipitates ’ being finally treated as before. i Smalts (which see; also China-blue and Egyptian Azure, above). ] Thenard’s Blue. See Ultramarine (Co- baltic). Tliumb'-Blue, Cake'-blue, Crown'-Blue, Fig’- blue, Knob'-blue, Mech'lenburg-blue (mek'-). Queen's blue, Slone-blue, Sec. Names given to the ‘ lump-blue ^ used in laundries, which vary according to the quality and the particular form given to it. Frep. 1. A mixture of powdered starch with sufficient indigo (in impalpable powder) to give the necessary colour, made into a ‘ stiff dough ’ with starch-paste, and then formed into ‘ lumps ^ or ‘ cakes ^ of the desired size and shape, and dried. This forms the ordinary ‘washerwoman’s blue’ of the shops. 2. As the last, but substituting cceruleo- sulphate of pot assa or blue carmine^ for the ‘ powdered indigo ’ ordered in the last formula. Very fine. 3. As No. 1., but substituting whiting for the ‘powdered starch,’ and weak size or a decoction of Irish moss for the ‘starch-paste.’ Inferior. Uses, Sfc. Employed by laundresses to im- part a faint blue tinge to linen, in order to in- crease its apparent whiteness. The common forms given to it are that of ‘ small balls ’ of about I to 1 inch in diameter; the same, but rather larger, and pinched with the thumb and finger in three directions, so as to leave corre- sponding depressions (thumb-blue) ; and ‘ cakes,’ which are cut out of the mass, pre- viously rolled into a sheet, by a suitably shaped ‘ cutter.’ Turn'bull’s Blue. Ferridcyanide of iron (which see; also Turnbull’s Blue). Blue Verditer. See Veeditee. Ultramarine' (-rene'), U.-blue. See Ultra- marine. BLUSH'ING. Syn. Ru'bor, Rube'do, L. In physiology, Sfc., the red glow on the cheeks or face occasioned by confusion, bashfulness, surprise, or shame. Blushing is caused by a sudden increase in the quantity and velocity of the blood in the capillaries, occasioning their turgescence; and, consequently, a heightening of the natural pale-reddish hue of the skin. It is referable to sudden mental emotions of an exciting cha- racter, such as surprise, confusion, conscious- ness of slight, injury, or indignity, and the like. Emotions of a depressing character frequently produce an opposite effect. This is termed pallor; and depends on the rush of hlood from the skin and surface of the body upon the internal organs. The first, though often unpleasant, is never dangerous; the last, always so. The cure of the habit of blushing consists in persisting efforts to maintain a sufficient degree of presence of mind and self-confidence to permit of reflec- tion, or a calm view of the exciting circum- stance, instead of sinking into a state of tem- porary mental imbecility and helpless con- fusion. BOIL (boyl). Syn. Eurun'culus, L. ; Furoncle, Fr.; Beule, Eiteestock, Ger. See Indigo (Sulphate of).