487 COUNTER-IRRITANTS—CRAYONS. ! spirit. The syrupy residue deposits, on stand- ! ing, crystals of coumaeine, which must he I purified from fat oil by pressure, and then I crystallized from hot water, ! Prop. Slender, brilliant, colourless needles; i fusible at 122° Fahr., and distilling at a ! higher temperature without decomposition. It has a fragrant odour and burning taste; it is very slightly soluble in cold water, more freely in hot water, and also in alcohol. COUN'TER-IR'RITANTS. In medicine einCi I pharmacy, substances applied to the surface j of the body to establish a secondary morbid I action, with the view of relieving one already I existing. In painful and spasmodic affections, I as neuralgia, spasms, and cramp; in rheuma- tism, lumbago, swelled and painful joints; in I headache, sore throat, sprains, languid glandu- lar tumours, and many other cases, this class ' of medicines often proves extremely valuable. I The counter-irritants which are best known are blisters, mustard poultices, hartshorn-and. j oil, and liniment of ammonia. In Dr. Gran- [ ville’s work, entitled ‘ Counter-Irritation,’ he I gives upwards of 100 cases of the most painful and important diseases effectually cured by external applications of the kind referred to. COURT PLAS'TER. See Plastee. COW DUNG. This substance was formerly : employed in large quantities by the calico ; printers. Recently, a mixture of sulphate, I carbonate, and phosphate of lime and soda, with j British gum or bran, has been successfully I tested as a substitute for it, and has the ad- ; vantage of cleanliness and economy. I COW'HAGE. Syn. Cow'itch ; Mectj'na (Ph. I L. E. & D.), L. “ The hairs of the fruit I Mucuna pruriens” (Ph. L.). “The hairs from I the pods” (Ph. E.). “The hairy down” (Ph. D.). It occasions violent itching when it i comes in contact with the skin, which can only be allayed by a solution of green vitriol, or by oil. It is frequently administered as a vermifuge, made into a confection, by scraping the hair off a pod into treacle, syrup, or j honey, for a morning dose, which is repeated i for 3 or 4 successive days, followed by a brisk j purge. It acts more effectually if its admi- i nistration has been preceded by a gentle ; emetic. COWS. See Daiey. ' CRAB. See Shell-fish. CRACKNELS. Small, brittle cakes or bis- , cuits, made by first boiling and then baking j paste. Prep. To flour, 1 pint, add a little I grated nutmeg, the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 or 3 j spoonfuls of rose-water, and cold water, q. s. ' to make a paste; then roll in b\Uter, ^ lb., and make it into shapes. In 1 hour put them j into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them until they swim, then throw them into cold J water; take them out, and when dry, bake j them on tins. Those of the shops contain ! less butter, and the rose-water is omitted. CRACK'NUTS. Thin and sweet cakes or I wafers. Prep. 1. Flour, 1 lb.; sugar, f lb.; melted butter, ^ lb.; 6 or 7 eggs, well beaten; make a paste with a glassful of raisin wine and a little water; add caraways, roll it out as thin as paper, cut it into shapes with a tumbler, wash the pieces with the white of egg, and dust them over with powdered sugar. 2. As the last, but using ^ lb. more flour. CRAMP, See Spasms. CRAPE is cleaned by rinsing it in or-galU and water, to remove the dirt; afterwards in pure water, to remove the gall; and lastly, in a little gum-water, to stiffen and crisp it. It is then ‘clapped' between the hands until dry. CRAY-FISH. See Shell-fish. CRAY'ONS. Colouring substances made up into small cylinders or any other convenient form for use in writing or drawing. Draw'ing Crayons. Prep. 1. Spermaceti, 3 oz.; boiling water, 1 pint; agitate together till they form a species of emulsion; add bone ash, 1 lb. (or more, previously reduced to an impalpable powder), and colouring matter, q. s. to give the proper tint; reduce the whole to a perfectly homogeneous paste, and form it into crayons. 2. Pipeclay and the flnest prepared chalk, equal parts; or pipeclay alone, q. s.; colour- ing, a sufiicient quantity; make them into a paste with pale mild ale. 3. White curd or Castile soap, cut into thin shavings, 1 oz.; boiling water, 1 pint; dis- solve, and when cold, add gradually, as much rectifled spirit of wine as will render the liquid barely transparent. With this fluid make equal parts of the flnest elutriated clay and chalk into a stiff paste, adding colouring matter, q. s., as before.- For common qualities, the spirit of wine may be omitted, but the mass will then dry more slowly. 4. Curd soap, 1^ oz.; gum arabic, \ oz.; boiling water, 1^ pint; dissolve, and use it as the last. General Lomet uses a ^similar mix- ture to work up the softest varieties of hema- tite, with which he thus forms superior red crayon. 5. (Process of the Brothers Joel, of Paris.) Shell-lac, 3 parts; spirit of wine, 4 parts; oil of turpentine, 2 parts; dissolve; add pure clay, 6 parts; colouring matter, q. s.; form the mass into crayons, and dry them by a stove heat. 6. Pale shell-lac, 5 parts; wood naphtha, 12 parts; dissolve, and with this fluid mix up the colouring powder, previously stirred up with an equal weight offlne, pale-blue clay ; dry by a stove heat, as before. When this process is well managed, it produces crayons equal to those of the best Parisian houses. Obs. The composition may be formed into crayons by simply rolling it on a slab; but to ensure their solidity the manufacturers gene- rally employ a metallic cylinder of 2 or 3 inches in diameter, with one end open and the other firmly secured to a perforated plate, having holes of the same size as the intended crayons. The crayon composition, in the state