1067 PILLS. I It may be further remarked, that no delu uescent salt should enter into the composi- ion of pills not intended for immediate use; j nd that when efflorescent salts are so employed, I hey should be first freed from their water of rystallization. I When the mixed ingredients are made into i mass (pill-mass), which it is not intended at j nee to divide into pills, it should be preserved |ii a piece of bladder or gut-skin placed in a overed stoneware or earthenware pot. In I his state it may be occasionally moistened j.-ith a little weak spirit to prevent its getting I ard. 1 The weight (size) of pills varies from | gr. |o 6 gr. If heavier than this, they are called j BOLUSES.’ Formerly, as a general rule, they jirere made ’of 5 gr. each \ but pills of this i^eight are, in general, so large, that some lersoiis find a difficulty in swallowing them, mother disadvantage of large pills is the I rouble of nicely apportioning the dose,—one jiill being, perhaps, too small a quantity, and |i4’0 pills the reverse. Hence, 2 to 3-gr. pills I re now the favourite size with both pill-takers nd dispensers, notwithstanding that 5-gr. (ills are still ordered in one of the authorised Pharmacopoeias. Pills are occasionally coated with gold, silver, nd other substances, to render them more Igreeable to the eye, or to prevent the taste of jiauseous ingredients affecting the palate jluring deglutition. They are gilded and sil- ered by placing them, in the moist state, on leaf or turn of the metal in a small gallipot, nd covering them in a similar manner with inother leaf of metal; over the mouth of the gallipot is laid a piece of smooth waiting paper, nd on this the palm of the hand; a sudden jnd rapid circular motion is then given to the ivhole. If the pills are not sufficiently moist |tr sticky, they should be rendered so by rolling hem between the fingers very slightly jUed with mucilage, before proceeding to ilver them. Another method is to shake I hem in a similar manner with a little gold or j ilver dust. When pills are to be covered with gelatine, ach pill, being stuck on the point of a very bin wire four or five inches in length, is dipped nto a solution of gelatine, so as to coat it •ompletely, and the wire is then inserted into I pincushion, or a vessel containing fine sand, md left until the gelatine is firm, which ocem's n about a quarter of an hour; the pins may hen be easily removed by simply warming hem, by placing the centre of each wire for a econd or tw'o in the fiame of a spirit lamp or ■andle. ‘ Sugae-coated pills’ are prepared n nearly the same way, but substituting hot ind highly concentrated syrup, to which a little lelatine has been added, for a simple solution )f gelatine. M. Durden covers plUs with collodion. Others lave recommended for this purpose a sohi- 'ion of gutta percha in either chloroform or bisulphuret of carbon. The ready solubility in the stomach of pills thus covered has, with justice, been questioned. Gelatine, or, still better, gelatine mixed with a little sugar, is unexceptionable in this respect; whilst it un- doubtedly excludes the taste of nauseous medi- cines more effectually than any other sub- stance. Mr. Furley employs a thin coating of albumen to render pills tasteless. As pill-masses are liable to get hard and brittle by keeping, an excellent plan is to keep the dry ingredients powdered and mixed to- gether in w^ell-corked bottles or jars, when a portion may at any time be beaten up with syrup, conserve, soap, &c.; according to the formula, and as wanted for use. The mixed ingredients in this state are technically known as ^species' or ^powder for* the respective pills. "It is generally said that pills should be taken on an empty stomach, and at a con- siderable distance from a meal; but for our- selves, we think that it is nearly always better to take them during a meal; first, because the stomach does not then find itself immediately under the infiuence of substances which, if not always dangerous, seldom fail to act more or less disagreeably; secondly, because its absorbent action is more certain; and, lastly, because they are then taken more easily.” (Trousseau and Reveil.) The meal here re- ferred to should be a light one, from which acidulous and other substances likely to interfere with the action of the remedy should be excluded. The dose should also be increased. In the London Pharmacopoeia the singular- number (‘ pilula’) is now very properly em- ployed to express the names of the officinal pill-masses; but in the other Pharmacopoeias the names are given in the plural form. As the latter is almost universally adopted in speaking of magistral formuloe and nostrums, we have used it in all cases, for the sake of uniformity and for ease of reference. See Bolus, Exteact, Peesceibino, and below. Abernethy’s Pills. See Abeenethy Me- dicines {page 2). Pills of Ac'etate of Lead. Syn. Pilula: PLUMBi ACETATis, L. Frep. 1. Acetate of lead, 20 gr.; powdered camphor, 15 gr.; con* serve of roses, q. s.; mix, and divide into 12 pills. 2. (Radius.) Acetate of lead and poivdered mallow or liquorice root, of each, ^ dr.; simple syrwjo, q. s.; divide into 18 pills. Dose. 1 to 5 daily, washed down with water soured with vinegar; as a powerful astringent in hae- morrhages, diarrhoea, the night-sweats in phthisis, &c. See Opiated Lead Pills. Pills of Acetate of Mer'eury. Syn. Pilula HYDEAEGTEI ACETATIS, L. Prep. 1. Sub* acetate of mercury, 18 gr.; sugar of milk (or manna), 1 dr.; mucilage, q. s.; divide into 24 pills. Dose. As an alterative, 1 daily; as a sialogogue, 1 every 4 or 5 hours, op