SPRAIN—ST AMMERING. 1235 leatment. Old ones, however, are more ob- inate, and require some fuller's earth and ft soap made into a paste with either ox-gall spirit of turpentine. ' Fefit and wine stains, on linen, commonly pld easily to hot soap-and-water. If not, jey must be treated as those noticed below. *Ink spots and recent iron moulds on ishable fabrics may be removed by dropping I the part a little melted tallow from a com- pn candle, before washing the articles; or, f the application of a little lemon juice, or of little powdered cream of tartar made into a ste with hot water. Old ink spots and Ion moulds will he found to yield almost {mediately to a very little powdered oxalic id, which must be well rubbed upon the iDt previously moistened with boiling water, :d kept hot over a basin tilled with the Ine. I Stains arising from alkalies and alkaline I^UORS, when the colours are not destroyed, i/e way before the application of a little non juice; whilst those arising from the SAKER ACIDS and ACIDULOUS LIQUIDS yield the fumes of ammonia, or the application of ittle spirit of hartshorn or sal volatile. Stains op marking- ink may be removed soaking the part in a solution of chloride of \ie, and afterwards rinsing it in a little ution of ammonia or of hyposulphate of soda ; they may be rubbed with tincture of iodine, id then rinsed as before. See Balls, joTHES, Hands, Scouring-, Stains &c. 'SPRAIN. Syn. Subluxatio, L. An injury ! a joint, iii which it has been strained or isted in an unnatural manner, without :ual dislocation. Pain, swelling, and in- mmation, are the common consequences, jiich must be combated by purgatives, repose, i a low diet, with refrigerant lotions, or |rm fomentations, according to circumstances. I extreme cases, blood should be taken, [here there is simple stiffness and weakness, ijrcise is often serviceable. SPRAT. The Clupea Spraftus (Linn.), a I all fish of the herring family, abounding on |r coasts. Gutted, coloured, and pickled, it Isold for Anchovies, or as British ancho- |es, and much used to make the sauce of that me. ■SPRUCE. See Beer, Essence, and Pow- ers. ^SPUNK. See Amadou. SQUILL. Syn. Scilla (Ph. L. E. & D.), , " The recent bulb ” of “ Urginea Scilla— pinheil (Scilla maritima—Linn.).” “Dry ' s as ordered for colchicum.” (Ph. L.) In all doses, squill acts as a stimulating expec- ;ant and diuretic; in larger ones, as an emetic •d purgative. With the first intention it is ijierally given in substance (powder), in doses 1 to 3 or 4 gr.; with the latter, either made jo vinegar or oxymel (which see). It is an '.iellent remedy in coughs, &c., after the in- mmatory symptoms have subsided. STAINED GLASS. The art of painting or staining glass resembles enamel painting, in the effect being produced by fluxing certain metallic substances, as oxides or chlorides, on its surface, by means of heat applied in a suitable furnace. The operations it embraces are diflicult, and require great promptitude and experience to prove successful. The colours or compounds employed are, for the most part, similar to those noticed under Enamel and Paste. STAINS. Discolourations from foreign matters. Liquid dyes are also frequently termed ‘ stains.^ See Spots, &c., and below. Blood Stains. Spots of dried blood on wood, linen, &c., however old, are easily recognised by the microscope; but simple stains or marks of blood of a slight character, especially those occurring on iron or steel, are recognised with greater difficulty. To obviate this, H. Zolli- kofer adopts the following plan:—The spot is removed, by scraping, from the surface of the metal, and the resulting powder is digested in tepid water, when a liquid is obtained which exhibits the following reactions :— 1. The liquid is neutralized with acetic acid, and heated to ebullition, when opalization occurs, or a dirty-red coagulum forms. 2. The coagulum is dissolved in hot liquor of potassa; the solution^ if blood (hcematin) be present, is diachromatic, or appears green by transmitted light and red by reflected light. , ■ 3. By the addition of concentrated chlorine water, in excess, to either solution, white flocks of albumen and chlorheematin separate, which are free from iron, as tested by sulphocyanide of potassium. Obs. The last two reactions are said to be characteristic. Very old spobs must be boiled in water containing a little liquor of potassa. ' *' Bookbinder^s Stains. See Leather, Mar- bling, &c. Confectioner’s Stains. These are similar to those noticed under Liqueur (page 847). Mineral colours, especially mineral blues, greens, and yellows, must on no account be used, as they Ure nearly all dangerous poisons ; nor is there any inducement to use them, since the vegetable substances referred to afford, by proper management, every shade that can be possibly required. These stains are also used for cakes and pastry. Liqueur Stains. See Liqueur. Map Stains. See Maps, Velvet Colours, &c. STAM'MERING. Syn. Bl^sitas, L. Oc- casionally, this depends on some organic affec- tion, or slight malformation of the parts of the mouth or throat immediately connected with the utterance of vocal sounds ; but, much more frequently, it is a habit resulting from carelessness, or acquired from example or imi- tation. When the latter is the case, it may be generally removed by perseveringly adopting