197 APEPSIA—APIOLE. I same authority, is an essential ingredient. See I CoPEOLiTE, Phosphate op Lime, Manuee, &c. APEP'SIA * (-sh’a). [L.] -Syn. Apep'sy*, Eng. Dyspepsia (which see). APE"PwIENT(a-pere'-e-ent; -per'-, as marked hy Mayne and Smart, though etym. correct, is less usual). Syn. Apee'itiye (-tiv); Apee'i- exs,L.; Apeeitif, Fr.; Abfuhrekd, opfnexd, ‘ Ger, In medicine, opening, laxath^e, gently : purgative; usually applied as an epithet to sub- stances and agents (ape"eients; apeeiex'tia, apeeiti'va, L.) which, in moderate doses, and under ordinary circumstances, gently, but com- pletely, open the bowels; and in this respect . rank between the ‘simple laxatives’ on the one hand, and the stronger purgatives and cathartics on the other. Among these may 1)0 named as examples—Aloes (when combined with soap or aromatics), Castile-soap, casfor- ) oil, compound extract of colocynth (in small I doses), compound rhubarb-pill, confection of senna, cream of tartar, Epsom-salts, Glauber’s salt, phosphate of soda (tasteless purging salt), pit. rufi, seidlitz powders, cold-water compress over the abdomen, &c. Several of these, in 1 larger doses, become active purgatives or I cathartics. See Purgatives, also Draughts, Mixtures, Pills, &c. Aperient Roots (of old pharmacy). See Species. A'PHIS (-fis). [L., prim. Gr.; pi., aph’ides, af-e-dez.] Syn. Plaxt'-louse, Vine'-feetter; II PuCEEOX, Fr. In entomology, an insect, the I type of a family of the hemip'tera aphid'ii, L.) inhabiting trees and plants, and living on their juices, and remarkable for the sweet secretion (iioxet-dew) of their anal glands, of which ants are so fond. The species are very numerous. Those coleop- terous and cimicious insects which prey upon aphides, and keep them in check, are called APHIDIPH'AGI (-ji) and aphidiv'oea. See Insects, Gardening, Rose, Vine, &c. APHLOGIS'TIC (af-lo-jist'-ik). Syn. Aph- logis'ticus, L. ; Aphlogistique, Fr. With- out flame; uninflammable; flameless. See ' ITre, Lamp, &c. APHRODIS'IAC (af-ro-diz'-). Syn. Aphro- disi'acal (-zT-), Apheodit'ic ; Apheodisi'- Acus, &(!., L.; Aphrodisiaque, Fr.; Zum I FEiscHLAF REizEND, Ger. Venereal; that pro- vokes desire or its indulgence. In medicine, an epithet applied to substances, agents, &c., ! (aPHEODIS'IACS ; APHRODISI'ACA , APHRODIT'- ICA, I>.,) that excite or increase the sexual appetite and the ability for its gratification, and this chiefly by stimulating, or by improving the functional condition, of the cerebellum, or of the organs immediately concerned. Dr. Cullen, and several other writers after him, deny the existence of substances possessing this power; an opinion which appears to be scarcely sup- ! ported by fact. “ That the sexual feelings and powers may be influenced, directly or in- directly, by substances taken into the stomach. cannot, I think, be doubted.” ^ Some of the articles to which aphrodisiac properties are said to belong, thus probably act through the brain, inflaming the imagination and exciting desire; others operate as local irritants and stimulants through the medium of the circu- lation, which they accelerate in the parts; some appear to act through the ordinary chan- nels of nutrition, by merely raising the standard of the general health; whilst a few exert a specific aphrodisiac action apart from these conditions. The following substances have been included under this head by differ- ent authors : — Alliaceous and cruciferous plants which contain the allyl-oils, as garlic, leeks, onions, horseradish, and mustard; aloes, ambergris, aristolochia, ammoniacum, assafoe- tida, beans (French and scarlet), borax, can- tharides, castor, civet, chalybeates, cresses, cubebs, eggs, emmenagogv.es (generally), fish (especially sea-fish), the foetid resins and gum- resins (generally), galbanum, the hypophos- phites, Indian hemp and its preparations, legu- minous seeds (generally), 7nusk, mix vomica, opium, peas, phosphorus and its preparations, the resinous stimulants, shell-fish (particularlj’' oysters), spices (especially the peppers), strych- nine, the turpentines, wines, &c. APH'THA (af'-tha; ap'-+). [L.] In patho- logy, the ‘ thrush.’ Hence the corresponding adj., AFH'Tnous. A'PIARY. A bee stand or shed; a place where bees are kept. See Apis Bees. A'PIINE (-pe-m). Syn. Apii'na, L. A gelatinous substance extracted by proof spirit from a'pium petroseli'num (Linn.), or pars- ley. With a solution of sulphate of iron it sti’ikes a blood red colour. Its medicinal properties are said to resemble those of ‘apiole,’ iDut are less marked. A'PIOLE (-pe-51e; or -61). Prep. The soft alcoholic extract of parsley-seed is either di- gested or agitated for some time with ether ; after sufficient repose in a cool place, the ‘ ethereal solution ’ is decanted, and the ‘ ether ’ removed by distillation; the residuum is purified by solution in rectified sjnrit, and agitation first with a little litharge, and next with animal-charcoal; after which the ‘ spiifit * is removed by distillation from the filtered solution. Prop., fyc. A yellow, oily, non-volatile liquid, having a peculiar smell, and a highly disagreeable taste; soluble in alcohol, ether, and chloroform; insoluble in water; and coloured red by strong sulphuric acid. Sp. gr., 1-078. Ill small doses it excites the pulse and nervous system ; and in larger ones, it causes headache, giddiness, vertigo, &c. It is said to be powerfully febrifuge, and has been highly extolled by MM. Joret and Homalle as a substitute for quinine in intermittents.**^ 1 Pereira, “ Thernp. Mat. Med.’’ 4th cd.,i. 2G8. 2 According to Drs. G. O. Rees and A. S. Taylor, 66 out of 116 cases were cured by it in their practice; but ac- cording to the French Commission, tlic cures are only 42%, and in many of tliese onhj temporary.