GOLD. 707 1 so largely used in the electrotype process. ; Cyanide of gold is employed to a certain ex- i tent in medicine. Dose. ^ to ^’5 gr., made into a PILL, in the usual cases in which gold I is administered. (See above.) The first for- mula is essentially similar to that of the French I Codex. I Dutch Gold. Mannheim gold, Mosaic g., ! Oe-molu, Pinchbeck, Peince’s metal, Red : BEASS, SiMiLOE, ToMBAC. These names are ; applied to several varieties of fine gold-coloured , BEASS, differing slightly in tint and in the I proportions of copper and zinc. “ The terms I tombac, prince’s metal, similar, and Mannheim ' gold, are used by some authors to designate alloys consisting of about 85g of copper and 15g of zinc; whereas, according toother au- I thors, prince’s metal and Mannheim gold are ,i synonymous, and are composed of 75g copper ' and 25g zinc; according to another author, I similar consists of about 7li g copper and I 28|§ zinc, and Mannheim gold of 80g copper I and 20g zinc; and, again, according to 1 another author, similar and Mannheim gold ! are synonymous, and are applied to alloys of copper containing from 10 to 12g zinc and from 6 to 8g tin. Seeing that such inextri- cable confusion exists in the employment of I the terms above mentioned, it is desirable to ' discard them altogether,” (Dr. Percy.) At the •I celebrated works of Hegermiihl, near Potsdam, the proportions copper, 11 parts, to zinc, 2 I parts, are employed to produce a metal which ! is afterwards rolled into sheets for the purpose j of making Dutch leaf-gold. This alloy has I a very rich, deep gold colour. Its malleability I is so remarkable that it may be beaten out I into leaves not exceeding inch in thick- ness. See Allots and Beass. Facti”tious Gold. Prep. From copper, 16 I parts; platinum, 7 paits; zinc, 1 part; fused !j together. This alloy resembles in colour gold ! of 16 carats fine, or and will resist the ac- ! tion of nitric acid, unless very concentrated j and boiling. (See above.) Ful'minating Gold. See Ammoniueet of I Gold {above) and Fulminating Compounds. ! Grain Gold. Syn. Aueum geanulatum, I L. Prep. From cupelled gold, 1 part; silver, I 3 parts; melted together, and poured in a small 1 streain into water ; the silver being afterwards i dissolved out by digestion in boiling nitric acid, I and the grains, after being well washed in water, heated to redness in a crucible or cupel. Used to make preparations of gold. I I'odide of Gold. Syn. Teeiodide of gold ; I Auei iodidum, L. (Parrish.) Add solution I of terchloride of gold, gradually, to solution of I iodide of potassium. The resulting precipitate I is at first redissolved on agitation, a soluble I double iodide being formed; subsequently I the iodide of gold is precipitated, leaving the j supernatant liquor free of colour. I Prop., uses, 4*c. A dark-green powder, easily j soluble in hydriodic acid. It is occasionally 1 employed as a medicine, and, like other prepa- rations of gold, is of an alterative nature. Dose. About gr. Obs. Another compound of gold and iodine (PEOTIODIDE OF G.) is known, but it possesses no practical interest. Jew'eller’s Gold. This term is applied to alloys of gold used for trinkets and inferior articles of jewellery, ranging from 3 or 4 carats fine upwards; or which are too inferior to receive the ‘ Hall mark.’ The lowest alloy of this class is formed of copper, 16 parts; silver, 1 to 1^ part; gold, 2 to 3 parts ; melted together. This is worth only from 8s. Qd. to 9s. Qd. the oz. “ It has recently been found that gold of the quality of 12 carats, or less, if alloyed with zinc instead of the proper quantity of silver, presents a colour very nearly equal to that of a metal at least 2| or 3 carats higher, or of 8s. or 10s. an ounce more value; and the con- sequence has been that a large quantity of jewellery has been made of gold alloyed in this manner; and the same has been pur- chased by some shopkeepers, very much to their own loss, as well as that of the public; inasmuch as a galvanic action is produced, after a time, upon gold so alloyed, by means of which the metal is split into separate pieces, and the articles rendered perfectly useless. Gold chains, pencil-cases, thimbles, and lockets, are the articles of which the public and the shopkeepers will do well to take heed, as these have, among some other things, been lately so constructed.” (Watherston’s ‘ Art of Assay- ing.’) Leaf Gold. Syn. GolH-leaf; Aueum fo- LiATUM, A. IN LiBELLis, L. Gold reduced to leaves by hammering it between thin animal membrane. Its preparation constitutes the trade of the goldbeater. These leaves are only 1-282,000th of an inch in thickness. Gilt silver is hammered in the same way, but the leaves are thicker. The latter is called * party gold.’ Both are used by artists and gilders, and by druggists to gild pills, &c. Liq'uid Gold. Syn. Etheeeal solution OF GOLD, Potable gold ; Aueum potabile, L. Prep. Agitate ether with a solution of terchloride of gold for some time, allow it to repose, and decant the supernatant por- tion. Obs. Naphtha and essential oils possess the same property as ether of taking gold from its solutions; the first has the advantage of cheap- ness. This liquid was formerly held in great esteem as a cordial medicine. It is now only employed for writing on steel, gilding, &c. As it dries, it leaves a coating of pure gold. Mannheim Gold. See Dutch Gold (aio»e). Mosa'ic Gold. See Tin (Bisulphuret), also Dutch Gold {above). Ox'ides of Gold. With oxygen gold forms two well-defined compounds. They are :— 1. Protoxide of Gold. This is formed when liquor of potassa is poured on the protochloride. It is a green powder, slightly soluble in liquor of