PRESCRIPTIONS—PRINTING INK. 1141 I jould be recollected that solutions and emul- |)ns generally act with more certainty and pidity than powders diffused through water; id these, again, than the semi-solid and solid •ms of medicine represented by electuaries, luses, and pills. On these matters, how- |er, the taste and wishes of the patient lOuld not be disregarded. For this purpose, ie iaste of nauseous medicines should be dis- [ised, as much as possible, by the judicious ection of an appropriate corrective or ex- \nent. Thus, the disagreeable flavour of \ som salt may be in a great measure covered ; dissolving it in peppermint water; that of \\es, by liquorice; that of castor oil and paiba, by orange peel; and that of powdered fk, by mixing it with milk immediately fore taking it; whilst the bitterness of , bitter substances is concealed by strong fee. In order that a prescription may be well ide, it is not necessary to unite all the ele- iiits above referred to. The basis and the ^cipient are the only two which are abso- ,ely necessary, since there are many medi- les which have no need of an adjuvant, le agreeable flavour and odour of some, and 9 mild and harmless nature of others, often ider the intervention of a corrigent unne- isary when they are employed. A single Dstance may also “be capable of answering 0 or more purposes. Thus, the adjuvant liy also act as a corrigent, as when the addi- jii of soap to aloes, or to extract of jalap, 1 sens their griping properties, and at the jne time promotes their action. In the me way neutral salts correct the colic which ilows the use of resinous purgatives, and i^elerate their action.^^ According to Gau- jis, the number of ingredients in a pre- I’iption should scarcely ever exceed three or ar. See Dose, Medicines, Incompatibles, LLS, &c. PRESCEIP'TIONS. Recipes or formulae for e preparation and exhibition of medicines ended, generally, for immediate use. See jtESCEiBiNG (above). jPRESERVES'. A general term, under which p included tbe various fruits and vegetables jiich are seasoned and kept in sugar or syrup, ore especially those which are so preserved |iole or in slices. See Candying, Jam, jABMALADE, &C. iPEESS (Correcting for the). See Peoofs. jPEINCE’S METAL. One of the names for |itch gold. (See page 707.) PRINTING (Anastatic). A method of icography, patented in 1845, having for its ject the reproduction of drawings, engrav- es, and letter-press, from copies however jl. To describe briefly the preparation of a i/e or cylinder, let us suppose a newspaper out to be reprinted by this means. The eet is first moistened with dilute acid and iced between sheets of blotting paper, in dor that the superfluous moisture may be absorbed. The ink resists the acid, which attacks the blanks only. In all cases where the letter-press is of recent date, or not per- haps older than half a year, a few minutes suf- fice for this purpose. The paper is then care- fully placed upon the plate with which the letter-press to be transferred is in immediate contact, and the whole passed under a press, on removal from which, and on carefully dis- engaging the paper, the letters are found in reverse on the plate. A preparation of gum is then applied to the plate by means of a roller, after which the letters receive an addi- tion of ink, which is immediately incorporated with that by which they are already formed. These operations are effected in a few minutes. The surface of the plate round the letters is next bitten in a very slight degree by dilute acid, and on the fresh application of the ink it is rejected by the zinc, and received only by the letters, which are charged with the ink by the common roller used in hand-printing. Each letter comes from the press as clear as if it had been imprinted by type metal; and the copies are fac-similes, which cannot easily be distinguished from the original sheet. When pen-and-ink drawings are to be repro- duced, they are made on any paper free from hairs or filaments, and well sized. The ink used is a preparation made for the purpose, closely resembling lithographic ink, and may be mixed to any degree of thickness in pure distilled water. It should be used fresh and slightly warm when a fine effect is to be given. In making or copying a design a pencil may be used; but the marks must be left on the paper, and by no means rubbed with India rubber or bread. It is necessary to add, that the paper should be kept quite clean and free from friction, and should not be touched by the fingers, inasmuch as it will retain marks of very slight touches. Before closing this notice of anastatic print- ing, it may be proper to remark, that the great pretensions originally set up by the patentees have not been fulfilled by its extensive adop- tion in trade. PRINTING INK. Prep.—a. ThevAENiSH. Linseed or nut oil, 10 or 12 gall., is set over the fire in an iron pot capable of containing fully as much more; when it boils, it is kept stirred with an iron ladle, and, if it does not take fire of itself soon after the smoke begins to rise, it is kindled by means of a piece of burning paper, stuck in the cleft end of a long stick; the pot is shortly afterwards removed from the fire, and the oil is suffered to burn for about half an hour, or until a sample of the varnish cooled upon a pallet knife may be drawn into strings ofi about ^ inch long, between the fingers; the flame is now extin- guished by the application of a closely fitting tin cover, and, as soon as the froth of the ebul- lition has subsided, black resin is added, in the proportion of f lb. to 1 lb. for every quart of oil thus treated; the mixture is next stirred