27 ACID. d' an electro-negative compound, capable of aj uniting in definite proportions with bases, forming salts, and which, when either liquid II or in solution, possesses a sour taste, and jj reddens litmus. ^c. The chemical theory of the acids, l! the precise nature of their composition, the I laws which regulate their combinations, and Ij the peculiar constitution of the resulting salts, II are matters which are still undecided, and con- i| tinually forming subjects of scientific research ti and speculation. Lavoisier and the associated French chemists conceived that acidity results ^ from the union of a peculiar combustible base « {radical) with a common principle of acidifica- t tion {oxygen). This hasty generalisation was afterwards disproved by Berthollet, who main- ii tained that it was “carrying the limits of analogy too far to presume that all acidity li arises from oxygen.^^ The early opinion of r Sir H. Davy was, that intimately combined water is the real ‘acidifying principle.' In t 1810, this celebrated chemist published a series I of dissertations, in the Philosophical Trans- 1 actions, which fully overthrew the hypothesis ii of Lavoisier. It soon appeared that both i oxygen and hydrogen are capable of producing I acids, of which sulphuric acid and hydrochloric i( acid may be taken as examples; at the same r, time, however, chloriodic acid and chlorocyanic <i acid are found to contain neither of these sub- i\ stances. Another theory, elaborated by Dr. Mur • II ray, and based on the early suggestions of Davy, |! presumed that the joint agency of the elements i' of water was necessary for acidification, and 1, that the acids were ‘ternary compounds' of r the bases with hydrogen and oxygen. It is 11 now believed by many, that no one substance ti or element can be regarded as the general ■! ‘ acidifying principle.' The more recent theory • of the acids, elaborated out of the researches ' 1 of Graham, Liebig, Dumas, Clark, Fremy, Thalow, Dulong, Peligot, and oth ers, is affirmed, ! by its supporters, to establish the views first suggested by Sir H. Davy respecting the chloric I and iodic acids and their salts. In this scheme (BINARY theory) all the acids are united into , one series, and all the salts into another, both ' being so closely connected, that it is said, “ that ,! these two series may be considered as one." j The existence of hydrogen in the oxygen acids, ! in the free or active state, is here deemed an ! essential part of their constitution; and hence I the name of hydracids has been extended to , them. This principle has been applied to all i the acids, even the organic. Those acids that ' contain one equivalent of hydrogen are called i MONOBASIC ACIDS; those with two equiv., bi- ! BASIC ACIDS ; those with three equiv., tribasic : ACIDS, and so on; the general term polybasic ACID, being applied to those whi(!h combine i with two, or more than two, equiv. of hydrogen. [ Hydrochloric acid, or sulphuric acid, may be taken as a type of the first class ; tartaric I acid, of the second; and citric acid, of the third; whilst phosphoric acid, in its different conditions, exhibits an example of each of them. This hypothesis affords both simplicity and unity of classification. In the union of the acids with the bases forming ‘ salts,' it pre- sumes that the hydrogen of the acid is replaced by the given base, the hydrogen having pre- viously played the part of a base itself." Hence acids may be viewed as the hydrogen or haloid salts of their radicals, and acids and salts, with regard to their constitution, as forming but one class. All acids must be, in fact, ‘hydro- gen-acids,' and all salts ‘ haloid salts,' with either simple or compound radicals. “The neutralising power of an acid depends entirely on the number of equivalents of hydrogen re- placeable by the bases." (Liebig.) According to this theory, the acid properties of combi- nations of bodies with oxygen (oxacids), re- main undeveloped until the accession of hy- drogen or water; as is the case with dry sul- phuric acid and acetic acid. This assumption is borne out by observation, and explains many hitherto obscure facts. It may be further added, in opposition to the views originally propounded by Berthollet, that the respective affinities and saturating powers of the acids do not correspond. Theoretically, capacity of saturation is no proof of strength of affinity or of acid power in different acids. Thus 50 gr. of chalk, or 54 gr. of dry carbonate of soda, are taken to neutralize 37 gr. of real hydro- chloric acid; but the same quantities of these substances are sufficient to neutralize 49 gr. of the strongest oil of vitriol, containing 40 gr. of real acid. It thus appears that a less quan- tity of hydrochloric acid than of sulphuric acid is equivalent to any given weight of base. According to Berthollet’s theory, the former is the stronger acid; but the reverse is in reality the case, as sulphuric acid takes lime from its solution in hydrochloric acid. Up to the present time no absolute criterion of this scale of power among the different acids has been discovered. Other hypotheses have been promulgated respecting the acids which possess little merit, and have obtained still less noto- riety, and, therefore, need not be noticed here. Class., ^c. The acids have been variously classed by writers into animal, vegetable, and MINERAL ; ORGANIC and INORGANIC ; ME- TALLIC and NON-METALLIC; OXYGEN ACIDS (oxacids), hydrogen acids (hydracids), and acids destitute of either of these elements; the names being applied according to the kingdom of nature, or class of bodies, to w’hich the ‘radical’ belongs, or according to the ‘element' which was presumed to be the acidifying prin- ciple. The only useful general classification of these compounds is into organic and inorganic acids. Gen. prop., ^c. The forms of the acids are various—gaseous, as carbonic acid; liquid, as nitric and acetic acid; and solid, as citric and oxalic acid. Several are cry stallisable, whilst others, though solid, are incapable of crystallisa- tion. Some of them, under peculiar conditions.