FRIGORIFIC MIXTURES—FROG. 667 the skin. “ The benefit of friction, which con- sists of motion and heat^ whether or not the same be raised by rubbing the body with a coarse cloth or the flesh-brush, has advan- tages inconceivable and scarcely credible, by I which the obstructions of the pores and cuta- 'neous glandules are opened, their stagnating :juices broken into small particles, dissolved, land rendered fit to be carried off in perspira- ition, in the room of which, as my Lord Veru- |lam well observes, new juice Avill succeed with inew vigour to the body; and longevity, saith {that great naturalist, is this way most cer- Itainly promoted.” (Daniel Turner.) I Simple friction is performed by the hand lalonc, or with a piece of flannel, a hair glove, lor a flesh-brush. “ If it be properly per- formed—namely, by short, brisk strokes with the tips of the fingers, and with great celerity, when the naked hand is the agent; and if it |he continued for an hour or upwards, and repeated several times a day—its influence in reducing swelled glands and swellings of the ioints, as well as in alleviating rheumatic pains, is very great; but, besides being well per- formed, the friction should be continued for 'at least) half an lioiir, in order to render it aseful.” (Dr. R. E. Griffith.) I Gentle, slow, and equable friction, by pro- I ducing a continued repetition of an agreeable I impression on the nervous system, acts both r '.s an anodyne and hypnotic. For this purpose ' the operator should sit by the side of the I bed, and, introducing the hand under the bed- • clothes, rub the legs or the arms (or other parts) gently, with equally lengthened but flow movements. When the invalid is a child, its influence is more powerful when aided by a monotonous, but a soft tune, which, although it operates upon a distinct sense, yet, by com- bination, renders the friction more soporific.” (Griffith.) When W\Q friction is accompanied with the use of any acrid or irritating substance, or is intended to introduce any active remedy into the system, the rubbing should be brisk, and of sufficient force to slightly abrade and in- iHame the cuticle; and should be continued {until the substance, which is usually in the form of an ointment, either wholly or par- tially disappears, owing to its absorption by the skin. 'I'he hand of the operator should, in most cases, be guarded by a glove; other- wise he is likely to share with the patient the effects of the medicine, a result not always agreeable or even safe. FRIGORIFIC MIXTURES. See Refei- Igeeation. FRIT. The pulverulent materials of glass, heated until they coalesce without melting. See Enamel, Glass, &c. FRITTERS. Fried batter. A species of pancake, containing fruit, sweetmeats, poultry, meat, or fish. Prep. 1. (]\r. Alexis Soyer.) “ The following is thirty receipts i» one;’'—Soak enm of bread, 1 lb., in cold water, q. s.; take the same quantity of any kind of boiled or roasted meat (a little fat), and chop it into fine dice; press the water out of the bread; put into the pan butter, lard, or dripping, 2 oz., with chopped onions, two teaspoonfuls; fry two minutes, add the bread, stir with a wooden spoon until rather dry, then add the meat, and season with salt, 1 teaspoonful, pepper, ^ do., and a little grated nutmeg, if handy; stir till quite hot; then further add tv;o eggs, one at a time, mix very quickly, and pour it on a dish to cool; next roll it into the shape of small eggs, then in flour, ^ egg’ them, and bread-crumb them ; lastly, fry in abundance of fat to a nice yellow colour, and serve either plain, or with any sharp or other savoury sauce you fancy. Innumerable dishes can be made in this way; in fact, from everything that is eatable, and at any season of the year—from the remains of meat, poultry, game, fish, vegetables, &c. The same can be done with chopped dried or preserved fruits, simply using a i lb. more bread, and sifting powdered sugar and cinna- mon over them. Cream may also be used for fruit, or curds. Fritters are also (and more commonly) fried in ordinary batter, instead of bread-crumbs. “ There is no end to what may be done with these receipts.” “They can be ornamented, and made worthy the table of the greatest epicure, if the bread be soaked in cream, and spirits or liquor introduced into them.” (Soyer.) 2. Mrs. Rundell:—a. (Apple feittees.) See Fefit feittees. b. (Buckwheat feittees, B. cakes. Bock- ings.) Made by beating up buckwheat flour to a batter with some warm milk, adding a little yeast, letting it rise before the fire for 30 or 40 minutes, then beating in some eggs and milk or warm water, as required, and frying them like pancakes. Buckwheat frit- ters, when Avell prepared, are excellent. Made without eggs, and served up with molasses, they form a common dish in almost every breakfast in North America. c. (Cued feittees.) From dried curd, beaten with yolk of egg and a little flour, and flavoured with nutmeg. d. (Feench feittees.) Common pancakes, beaten up with eggs, almonds, and flavouring (sugar, orange-flower water, and nutmeg), and the paste dropped into a stew- or frying-pan half full of boiling lard, so as to form cakes the size of large nuts, which are cooked till brown. e. (Feuit FEITTEES.) From the sliced fruits, with rich batter. f. (Souffle feittees.) Rich pancakes, flavoured with lemon. g. (Spanish feittees.) From slices of French rolls soaked in a mixture of cream, eggs, sugar, and spices, and fried brown. FROG. The esculent variety, in Europe, is the common green or gibbous frog, the Rana esQulenta of Linnjcus. As an aliment, it is