188 ANTIMONY. (Soubeiraii; R. Phillips.)' In fine powder it is emetic, in doses of 1 to 3 gr.; but owing to the uncertainty and violence of its operation, is now seldom employed. It has been used as a cheap source of the teeoxide by the manu- facturers of tartar-emetic. Glass of Antimony (Cera"ted). 5yn. Anti- mo"nii vit'eum cera'tum, L. Prep. (Dr. Young & Ph. L. 1746.) Glass of antimony, in very fine powder, 1 oz.; yellow wax, 1 dr.; melt together in an iron ladle, and keep it over a gentle fire free from flame, (constantly stirring,) for about half an hour, or until it acquires a snuff-colour, then pour it out on a piece of white paper (or a plate), and when cold, powder it.—Dose. 2 to 10 gr., in dysen- tery, &c. Hydrochlo"rate of Antimony*. See Chlo- MDE OF Antimony. Liv'er of Antimony. Syn. He'pae anti- MO"NII, L.; Hepae d’antimoine, Oxysel- FUEE d’antimoine SILICATE, Fr. Prep. From sulphuret of antimony, 1 part; and dry carbonate of soda or potash, 2 parts; melted together, and heated until it acquires the proper colour, and then cooled, and powdered. Comp., uses, Sfc. A mixture of teroxide of antimony, sulphuret of potassium, carbonate of potash, and undecomposed tersulphuret of antimony. It is chiefly used by farriers, in doses of 1 to 2 dr., as an alterative purge for horses, in greasy heels, &c.; and sometimes by chemists, as a source of the crude oxide. Crocus of antimony, before noticed, sometimes passes under the name, and is sold for it. Mu"riate of Antimony*. Terchloride of antimony. Oil of Antimonyf. Liquid chloride of an- timony. Ore of Antimony, Antimony-ore. Native sulphuret of antimony. Oxides of Antimony (-idz). Chemists were formerly much divided in opinion as to the number of compounds formed by antimony with oxygen. Thenard asserted that there were six; Proust reduced the number to two ; Thomson made three, and Berzelius counted four. At the present time chemical writers generally enumerate only three—1 oxide, and 2 acids. Of these, “the first has doubtful basic properties, the second is indifferent, and the third is an acid.” CFownes.) If w^e re- gard antimonious acid as a double compound (SbOg H- SbOj) intermediate between oxide of antimony and antimonic acid, we are compelled to admit that the assertion of Proust is most probably correct. (See p. 181.) The sub- oxide of Berzelius is a mere mixture of the basic oxide (teroxide) and finely divided me- tallic antimony. (Turner.) The terms {prot- oxide, teroxide, sesquioxide, &c.) applied to the basic oxide depend upon the views taken as to the atomic weight of antimony, or the ^ When properly prepared it contains from 90 to 93% of teroxide of antimony. order of the oxide in the series, as noticed under teeculoeide of antimony. 1. Teroxide of Antimony. Syn. Ox'ide OF antimony, Peotox'ide of a., Sesqui- ox'iDE OF A., White o. of a.*; Antimo”nii TEROX'YDUM (Ph. L.), A. ox'ydem (Ph E. & D.), A. peotox'ydum, A. sesquiox'ydem, &c., L.; Oxide d’antimoine. Oxide blanc d’antimoine, Fr.; Antimon-oxyd, &c., Ger. The basic oxide of antimony before alluded to, and probably the only true oxide of that metal. Prep. 1. (Ph. E. 1841.) Sulphuret of an- timony (in fine powder), 4 oz.; hydrochloric acid, 1 pint; dissolve with a gentle heat, (under a flue,) boil for half an hour, filter, and pour the fluid into water, 5 pints; collect the precipitate (oxychlo”eide of antimony, Al'gaeoth's powdee) on a calico-filter, wash it first with cold water, then with a weak solu- tion of carbonate of soda, and again with cold water till it ceases to affect test paper; lastly, dry it by the heat of a vapour bath. 2. (Ph. D. 1850.) Solution of terchloride of antimony (Ph. D.), 16 fl. oz.; water, 2 galls.; mix well, collect the precipitate on a calico- filter, and wash it with water until the latter only slightly reddens litmus paper, then agi- tate it occasionally for ^ an hour with liquor of potassa, 1 pint, diluted with water, q. s.; again collect it on a filter, and w^ash it with boiling water, until the ‘ w^ashings ’ cease to be affected when dropped into an acid solution of nitrate of silver; lastly, dry it at a heat not > above 120° Fahr. 3. (Ph. L. 1851.) Tersulphuret of antimony, 1 lb.; sulphuric acid, 15 fl. oz.; mix in an iron capsule (under a flue), stirring with an iron spatula, and gradually increasing the heat until nothing remains but a w^hitish pulveru- lent mass; when cold weU wash this with cold water (as above), and dry it. T\\q product, according to Mr. Phillips, is disulphate of ANTIMONY, and in this state is ordered to be used to make tartar emetic in the formula of Ph. L. By boiling it with water holding in solution a little carbonate of soda, and sub- sequently w^ashing it with pure water, the acid of this disulphate is removed, and teeoxide OF ANTIMONY obtained. This is a modification of the process of Hornung, and that now generally adopted by English manufacturing chemists. (See below.) 4. (Hornung.) Sulphuret of antimony, 5 parts; sulphuric acid, 12 parts; proceed as last (nearly).—Prod. 15 parts of the ‘ sul- , phuret ’ yield 13 parts of the dry oxide? ^ ' 5. (Tyson.) By decomposing oxychloride of || t antimony vjMh. sesquicarbonate of ammonia, washing the product as before. 6. By adding a solution of ammonia or car- \ bonate of soda to a strong solution of tartar \ emetic, and heating the mixture. 7. By the combustion of metallic antimony. ^ See Flowers of Antimony {supra). 2 Vide "Journ. de Pharm.,” 1848. ;