G60 rOMENTATIOK. shell-lac varnish (alcoholic), with a little Prus- sian blue. d. (Garnet.) Dragon's blood dissolved in rectified spirit of wine. e. (Vinegar garnet.) Orange lake finely tempered with shell-lac varnish. f. (Green.)—a. Fromdissolved in alcohol (lacquer), and tinged green by dis- solving verdigris or acetate of copper in it. j3. From sesquiferrocyanide of iron and bi- chromate of potassa, of each, \ oz. ; ground to an impalpable powder, first alone, and then with gum mastic (clean and also in fine powder), 2 oz.; a little pyroxilic spirit is next added, gradually, and the whole again ground until the mass becomes homogeneous and of a fine transparent green. The beauty increases with the length of the grinding. The predominance of the bichromate turns it on the yellowish green; that of the salt of iron, on the bluish green. For use it is to be thinned with pyroxilic spirit. (‘ Chem.,' iii, 238.) Used for emeralds. g. (Red.) Carmine, dissolved in spirit of hartshorn, or in a weak solution of salt of tar- tar, and a little gum (dissolved) added. h. (Ruby.) — a. From lake or carmine, ground in isinglass. l3. Lake ground in shell-lac varnish. Both are used when the colour turns on the purple. y. From bright lake ground in oil. Used when the colour turns on the scarlet or orange. i. (Yellow.)—rt. Various sluides of yellow may be produced by tinging a %ceak alcoholic solution of shell-lac or mastic, by digesting tur- meric, annotta, saffron, or socotrine aloes, in it. The former is the brightest, and is used for topazes. /3. From hay saffron digested in 5 or G times its weight of boiling water until the latter becomes sufficiently coloured, and a little solution of gum or isinglass added to the filtered liquor. When dry, a coating of spirit varnish is applied. Ubs. By tlie skilful use of the above var- nislies, good imitations of the gems may be cheaply made from transparent white glass or paste; and b}’ applying them to foils set under coloured pastes (factitious gems), a superior effect may be produced. The pigments em- ployed must be reduced to the finest state jwssible by patient grinding, as without this precaution transparent and beautiful shades cannot be formed. The palest and cleanest mastic and lac, dissolved in alcohol, and also the palest and quickest drying oil, should alone be used when these substances are ordered. In every case the colour must be laid on the foil with a broad soft brush ; and the opera- tion should be performed, if possible, at once, as no part should be crossed, or hvice gone over, whilst wet. If the colour turns out too pale, a second coat may be given when the first one has become quite dry, but this prac- tice should be avoided if po.ssible. FOMENTA'TIOI!?’. Syn. Fomentatio, Fo- MENTUM, Fotus, L. A liquid, either sinqde or medicated, used for local bathing. Fo- mentations are distinguished from lotions, chiefly, in being applied in a heated state, and in larger quantities, and for a longer period at a time. Fomentations are chiefly employed to allay pain or irritation, or to promote suppuration or the healthy action of the parts. As the intention is to convey heat, combined with moisture, to the part fomented, the utmost care must be taken to manage the application so as to promote the object in view as much as possible. Flannel cloths, wrung out of the hot or boiling liquid, by means of two sticks turned in opposite directions, form the best vehicles for fomentations. If they are shaken up, and laid lightly over the part, they involve a considerable quantity of air, which, being a bad conductor, retains the heat in them for a considerable time. “ In every process of fo- menting, there should be two flannels, each (say) three yards long, with the ends sewed together, to admit of the boiling water being wrung out of them; and the one flannel should be got ready whilst the other is applied. The fineness or the coarseness of the flannel is not a matter of indiflerence. The coarser it U, the less readily doefe it conduct heat, and the longer it retains its warmth; therefore, it is more eflicient for fomenting. White flannel also retains the heat longer than coloured flan- nel.” (Dr. R. E. Griffith.) Mere harm than good is frequently done by allowing the patient to become chilled during the appli- cation. “If only one (flannel) is used, the skin becomes chilled during the time occupied in removing the flannel, soaking it in the water, wringing it out, and reapplying itj but if two are used, one of them is ready, and can be applied the moment the other is taken off, by which means the part is never exposed to the air, no matter how long the fomenta- tion is continued. In some diseases (eheuma- TisM, PEEITONITIS, &c.), the patient is scarcely conscious of a degree of heat which scalds the nurse’s hands. In this case the fomenting flannels should be put into a towel, by which means they may be wrung out without being handled by the nurse, and may be applied far hotter than can be done by any other method.” (Dr. J. B. Kevins.) The quantity of liquid forming a fomenta- tion, as well as the size of the cloths employed, must entirely depend upon circumstances. In some cases (as in slight affections of the face, &c.), the application may be effectually made by liolding the part in the steam of the hot liquid, and bathing it continually by means of a sponge or cloth. In some instances, pint to a pint of liquid may be found a sufiicient quantity; whilst in others, several quarts will be required. Under all circumstances, care must be taken to keep the fomentation as near .as possible at the temperature ordered, during