834 LIGATURE—LIME. tartareay &c., when ground to a paste with water, mixed with putrid urine or solution of carbonate of ammonia, and left for some time freely exposed to the air, furnish the AECHIL, LITMUS, and CUDBEAE of commerce, very similar substances, differing chiefly in the details of their preparation. From these the colouring matter is easily extracted by water or very dilute solution of ammonia. See Aechil, Cudbeae, and Litmus. LIG'ATURE. In surgery, a small waxed piece of cord or string formed of silk or thread, employed for the purpose of tying arteries, veins, and other parts, to prevent haemorrhage, or to cause their extirpation. To be safe and useful, they should be round, smooth, and suffi- ciently strong to permit of being tied with se- curity without incurring the danger of breaking or slipping. There are many cases recorded in which emigrants, soldiers, and travellers, have lost their lives, from the simple inability of those around them to apply a ligature. LIGHT. Syn. Lumen, Lux, L. Light acts as a vivifying or vital stimulus on organ- ized beings; just as privation of light, or darkness, disposes to inactivity and sleep. “In maladies characterised by imperfect nu- trition and sanguinification, as scrofula, rickets, and anaemia, and in weakly subjects with cedematous (dropsical) limbs, &c., free exposure to solar light is sometimes attended with very happy results. Open and elevated situations probably owe part of their healthy qualities to their position with regard to it.^^ On the contrary, “ in diseases of the eye, attended with local vascular or nervous excitement, in inflammatory conditions of the brain, in fever, and in mental irritation, whether attended or not with vascular excitement, the stimulus of light proves injurious, and, in such cases, darkness of the chamber should be enjoined. After parturition, severe wounds, and surgical operations, and in all inflammatory conditions, exclusion of strong light contributes to the well-doing of the patient.” (Pereira.) Artifi'cial Light. Some interesting matter connected with this important subject will be found under the heads, Candle, Flame, Gas, Illumination, Lamp, Photometey, &c. LIG'NIN. Syn. Cellulose. This is woody fibre deprived of all foreign matter. It forms about 95g of baked wood, and constitutes the woody portion of all vegetable substances. Fine linen and cotton are almost entirely composed of lignin, the associated vegetable principles having been removed by the treat- ment the fibres have been subjected to during the process of their manufacture. Pure lignin is tasteless, inodorous, inso- luble in water and alcohol, and absolutely in- nutritious ; dilute acids and alkaline solutions scarcely affect it, even when hot; oil of vitriol converts it into dextrin or grape sugar, ac- cording to the mode of treatment. When concentrated sulphuric acid is added very gra- dually to about half its weight of lint, lineal rag, or any similar substance shredded small, and contained in a glass vessel, with constant , trituration, the fibres gradually swell up and disappear, without the disengagement of any gas, and a tenacious mucilage is formed, which is entirely soluble in water. If, after a few hours, the mixture be diluted with water, the acid neutralized by the addition of chalk, and, after filtration, any excess of lime thrown down by the cautious addition of a solution of oxalic acid, the liquid yields, after a second filtration, and the addition of alcohol in con- siderable excess, a gummy mass, which pos- sesses all the characters of pure dextein. If, instead of at once saturating the diluted acid solution with chalk, we boil it for 4 or 5 hours, the dextrin is entirely converted into geape SUGAE, which, by the addition of chalk and filtration, as before, and evaporation by a gentle heat to the consistence of a syrup, will, after repose for a few days, furnish a con- crete mass of crystallized sugar. By strong pressure between folds of porous paper or linen, redissolving it in water, agitation with animal charcoal, and recrystallization, brilliant ’ colourless crystals of geape sugae may be t obtained. Hemp, linen, or cotton, thus j treated, yield fully their own weight of guui, ■ and 11 of their weight of grape sugar. During | the above transformation, the sulphuric acid | is converted into sulpholignic acid, and? may be procured in a separate state. A solu- tion of oxide of copper in ammonia, or solu- tion of basic carbonate of copper in strong ammonia, dissolves cotton, which may then be precipitated by acids in colourless flakes. LIG'NITE. Syn. Beown coal. Wood and other matter more or less mineralized and converted into coal. The lignites ai-e generally dark brown, and of obvious woody > structure. They are distinguished from true n coals by burning with little flame and much smoke. Those of Germany are largely used as a source of paraffin and burning oils. LIG'HONE. Syn. Xylite. A light inflam- mable fluid, obtained with other products during the destructive distillation of wood. LIGNUM VI'T.E. See Guaiacum Wood. LI'LAC DYES. These are modifications of violets or purples. See Dyeing, &c. LIME. Syn. Oxide of calcium, Peot* OXIDE of c.; Calcii oxydum. Calx (Ph. L. E. & D.), L.; Chaux, Fr.; Kalk, Ger. An oxide of calcium, obtained by exposing limestone, marble, or chalk, which are car- bonates of lime, to a red heat. The substance thus obtained is called ‘ quicklime,' ‘ caustic lime,’ ‘buent lime,’ or ‘stone lime’ (calx VIVA, c. USTA, c. u. EECENS, L.). When water is sprinkled on quicklime, it becomes very hot, and crumbles down into a dry, white powder, which is hydeate of lime (calcis HYDE AS, CALX EXTiNCTA, L.), popularly known!| as ‘slaked’ or ‘slacked lime.’ Oyster- shells, and other fish-shells, are also converted] into quicklime by burning, which are then