332 BLEACHING. and a final ‘ scrubbing ’ with a strong lather of soft-soap, constituted the chief details of the process. In this way a high degree of white- ness, though not an absolutely pure or snow white, was ultimately produced. Grass-bleach- ing or ‘ crofting ’ is still extensively used for linen; but it is more generally employed only for a limited time, and in combination with a modification of the system at present almost universally adopted for cotton goods; whilst, in some cases, ‘ crofting ^ is omitted altogether, and the bleaching conducted wholly by the latter process. The following Tables exhibit the outlines of the new system as at present practised in Ireland and Scotland :— a. For plain sheetings:— 1. They are bucked for 12 or 15 hours in a lye made with about 1 lb. of pearlash (or ‘ soda- ash ’) to every 56 lb. of cloth, and washed. 2. Ceoeted for about 2 days. 3. Bucked in milk of lime. 4. Turned, and the ‘bucking’ continued, some fresh lime and water being added; and WASHED. 5. Soured in dilute sulphuric acid at 2° Twaddle. 6. Bucked with soda-ash for about 10 hours, and WASHED. 7. Crofted, as before. 8. Bucked again with soda-ash, as before. 9. Crofted for about 3 days. 10. Examined, the ‘ white ones ’ taken out, and the others again ‘bucked’ and ‘crofted.’ 11. Scalded or simmered in a lye of soda- ash of about only 2-3rds the former strength, and WASHED. 12. ‘ Chemicked,’ for two hours, at Twad- dle, WASHED, and scalded. 13. Again ‘chemicked,’ as before. 14. Soured for 4 hours, as in No. 5.; WASHED, and finished. This occupies 13 to 15 days, according to the weather.’ ^ b. For shirtings, ^c.:—As the preceding, but with somewhat weaker solutions. c. For ‘ goods ’ to be subsequently printed:— 1. Bucked in milk of lime for 10 or 12 hours. 2. Soured in dilute hydrochloric acid of 2° Tw., for 3 to 5 hours, and washed. 3. Bucked with resinate of soda for about 12 hours. 4. Goods turned, reboiled as before, and WASHED. 5. ‘ Chemicked ’ at Tw., for 4 hours. 6. Soured at 2° Tw., for 2 hours, and WASHED. 7. Bucked with soda-ash for about 10 hours, and WASHED. 8. ‘ Chemicked ’ as in No. 5. 9. Soured, as at No. 6, for 3 hours; WASHED, and dried .2 Obs. The chief difficulty in bleaching linen 2 The strengths of the solutions, when not otherwise stated, are about the same as those given under Cotton (antf;). arises from the fact that its colouring matter is insoluble in acid or alkaline solutions until it has been long acted upon by light, air, and i moisture, as in the common process of grass- bleaching. Chlorine hastens the operation; but, unfortunately, it can only be employed towards the end of the process; as when earlier used, the colour of the raw cloth becomes ‘ set,’ and irremovable. To obviate this difficulty Mr. F. M. Jennings, of Cork, has lately^ intro- duced the joint use of an alkali and an alkaline hypochlorite (‘ chloride’) in the place of the ordinary chloride of lime. He prepares a bath of solution of soda at 5° Twaddle, which he raises by the addition of chloride of soda (or of potash) to 6 or 7°, and in this he steeps the cloth (after the first ‘ bucking ’ and ‘ souring ’) for some hours, heat, or constant squeezing between rollers, being had recourse to, to facili- tate the action. ‘ Souring ’ and ‘ washing ’ follow, when the ‘ goods ’ are again put into the alkaline and chloride bath, as before; after which they are ‘ soured ’ and ‘ bucked ’ again with soda. This last three operations are re- peated until the cloth is almost white, when ‘ crofting ’ for one-half to one-fourth the time required by the usual method renders it fit for the final ‘ bucking,’ and ‘ finishing.’ Indeed, it is said that if the process be very carefully managed it renders ‘ crofting’ unnecessary. Raw linen loses about l-3rd of its weight in, bleaching. III. Silk:—Silk is usually bleached by first ‘ steeping’ it, and then ‘ boiling’ it in solutions of white soap in water, after which it is sub- jected to repeated ‘ rinsings,’ a little indigo- . blue, or archil, being added to the last water to give it a pearly appearance. When required to be very white (as for gloves, stockings, ^"c.), the ‘ goods’ are cautiously submitted, for 2 or 3 hours, to the action of the fumes of burning sulphur, and then finished by ‘ rinsing,’ as ' before. Obs. Boiling or sulphuring is not required for the white silk of China. Raw silk loses from 4 to 5 oz. per lb. by bleaching. IV. Wool:—In bleaching raw wool it is first deprived of the ‘yolk’ or peculiar natural varnish with which it is covered. For this purpose it is ‘ steeped ’ and ‘ stirred ’ for about 20 minutes in rather warm water (135°—140° Fahr.), either with or without the addition of l-4th part of stale urine; after which it is placed in ‘ baskets ’ to drain, and soon after- wards ‘thoroughly rinsed’ in a stream of water, when it is again allowed to ‘ drain,’ and is hung up to ‘ dry.’ The further operations depend on circumstances, wool being sometimes ‘ whitened’ in the fleece, or in the yarn, but still more frequently and .extensively, not till woven. When it is intended to send it in the first two forms white to market, it is hung up or spread out, whilst still wet, and ‘ sulphured’ [ (see below); after which it is either at once rinsed for some time in cold water, or is pre- il 3 Patent dated 1859. II