1050 PEPPER PODS—PERCHLORIC ACID. cum pods (recent, ground in a pepper mill), 1 lb.; rectified sjnrit, 24 pints; proceed by percolation so as to obtain 2| pints j from this distil one half of tbe spirit by the heat of a water bath; to the residuum add of fine dry salt, 5 lb.; mix them well together, and dry the mixture at a very gentle heat, frequently stirring; lastly, rub it through a sieve, and put it into warm dry bottles. It is usually co- loured with a little vermilion or rouge (sesqui- oxide of iron), but it possesses an agreeable colour without it. 2. Essence of cayenne (No. 1, page 580), 6 pints; distil oif 3 pints, add to the residual liquor, of dry salt, 12 lb.; mix well, dry by a gentle heat, and otherwise proceed as before. 3. Capsicums (ground), 3 lb.; red sunders or Brazil wood (sliced or rasped), 10 oz.; rectified spirit, 1 gall.; macerate for 14 days, then express the tincture, filter, distil off one half, add of dry salt, 15 lb., and proceed as before. 4. As the first formula, with the addition of a strong decoction of saffron, q. s. It gives a beautiful colour to soups, &c. Obs. “ The above formulse are those actually employed by the houses most celebrated for their ‘ soluble cayenne.^ The products are of the very finest quality, and are perfectly wholesome. We speak from an extensive ex- perience in the manufacture. The spirit dis- tilled from the essence forms a most suitable menstruum for making fresh essence or tinc- ture of cayenne.” (Cooley.) Cu'beb Pepper. See Cubebs. Jamai'ca Pepper. See Pimento. Kit'chen Pepper. See Spice. Long Pepper. Syn. Pipeeis longi ertjctus. Piper longum (Ph. L. & E.), L. “ The im- mature fruit (dried female spikes) of Piper longum, Linn.” (Ph. L.), or long-pepper vine. The spikes are about 14- inch in length, with an indented surface, and are of a dark-gray colour. In its general properties it resembles black pepper, but it is less aromatic, though equally pungent. Elephant pepper is merely a larger variety of this species. (Gray.) The root and stems, sliced and dried, form the ‘ PIPPIJLA moola’ of the East Indies. (Rox- burgh.) Red Pepper. See Cayenne Pepper. White Pepper. Syn. Piper album, L. This is made by either soaking ordinary black pepper in a solution of common salt, until the outside skins are soft, and then rubbing them off in the hands, or by merely rubbing off* the skins of the over-ripe berries that fall from the vines. An inferior quality is made by bleaching black pepper with chlorine. Obs. The use of lohite pepper instead of black is an instance of the sacrifices made to please the eye. Pure ivhite pepper has only about l-4th of the strength of pure black pepper, whilst it is nearly destitute of the fine aroma of the latter, It alsQ contains a mere trace of piperine, one of the most valuabl constituents of black pepper. PEP TER PODS. Capsicums. See Cayenk Pepper. PEPTERMINT. Syn. Mentha piperit. (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “ The recent and drie( flowering herb of Mentha piperita’’ (Ph. L.) or garden peppermint. The flavour and odou of this herb are well known. It is the mos pleasant and powerful of all the mints. Pep PERMiNT WATER and the ESSENTIAL OIL hav long been employed in nausea, griping, flatu lent colic, hysteria, diarrhoea, &c.; but in re gular practice chiefly to cover the taste o nauseous medicines, or as an adjunct or ve hide for more active remedies. See Oil; (Volatile), Waters, &c. PEP'SIN. Syn. Gasterase, Chymosin A pecular principle found in the gastric juice and which, in conjunction with hydrochlorii acid, also present in the'stomach, confers upoi it the power of digesting certain portions o the food. Prep. (Vogel.) Digest the glandular skh of a hog’s stomach, cut into pieces, in cok w'ater, for 24 hours ; then strain off* the liquic portion, and repeat the maceration wdth fres! water; mix the liquors, and add to then dilute solution of acetate of lead; diffuse th( precipitate through water, decompose it by s stream of sulphuretted hydrogen, again filter gently evaporate the filtrate to a syrupy con sistence, and add to it an excess of absoluU alcohol; collect the bulky precipitate tha gradually forms, and carefully dry it by ex posure to dry air. Prop., 4*0. An amorphous mass. By tin heat of a salt-water bath it forms a white pow > der, but in this state it is found to have lost-' some of its power of assisting digestion, f very small quantity of hydrochloric acid addec to its weak aqueous solution renders it ca pable of artificial digestion. Liebig denie; the existence of pepsin as a distinct principle in opposition to the opinions of Wasman anc some others. PERCHLO”RATE. Syn. Perchloras, L A salt of perchloric acid. The PERCHLORATES are distinguished fron the chlorates by their great stability, an< by not turning yellow when treated with hy- drochloric acid. Like the chlorates, they giv( off oxygen when heated to redness. The} may be prepared by directly neutralizing a so lution of the acid with a solution of the base See PoTASSA (Perchlorate), and below. PERCHLO”RIC ACID. Syn. Oxychlork ACIDt; Acidum PERCHLORICUM, a. oxt CHLORICUM, L. A compound of chlorine witl oxygen, having the formula CIO-, discoveret by Count Stadion. Preji. To qjerchlorate of potassa, containec in a retort, is added about ^ its weight o^jj strong sulphuric acid, previously diluted witl an equal weight of water; heat is then ap plied, and, as it rises to 284° Eqhr,, vppours o