1166 EEDUCTION—REFRIGERATION. triated massicot, or dross of lead, in shallow iron trays (about 12 inches square, and about 4 or 5 inches deep), piled up on the hearth of a reverberatory furnace, to a heat of about 600 to 650° Fahr., with occasional stirring, until it acquires the proper colour. The fur- nace employed for the preparation of massicot during the day usually possesses sufficient residuary heat during the night for this pro- cess, by which fuel is saved. Lead for the above purpose should he quite free from copper and iron. Red O'clire. A natural product abounding on the Mendip hills. Red Or'piment. Syn. Red aesenic. Ter- sulphuret of arsenic {?,qq page 213). Rose Pink. This is whiting coloured with a decoction of Brazil wood to which a little pearlash has been added. A very pretty colour, but it does not stand. It is always kept in a damp state. The colour may be varied by substituting alum for pearlash, or by the addition of a little spirits of tin. Vene'tian Red. Syn. Bolds Veneta, L. A species of ochre, brought from Italy. Vermilion. (See that word.) REDUCTION. Syn. Revitification. A term, in its fullest sense, applied to any opera- tion by which a substance is restored to its natural state; but now generally restricted, in chemistry, to the abstraction of oxygen, and hence frequently termed deoxidation or DEOXiDizEMENT. This change is operated by either heating the substance in contact with carbon or hydrogen, or in exposing it to the action of some other body having a pow- erful affinity for oxygen. See Potassium, &c. REPI"NING. A term employed in com- mercial chemistry and metallurgy synony- mously with purification. The separation of the precious metals from those of less value, as in the operation of parting, constitutes the business of the ‘ refiner.^ See Gold, Silyee, &c. REFRACTION (of Light). The deviation of a ray of light from its original path on entering a medium of a different density or power. For the practical application of this property, see Gems. REFRI"GERANTS. Medicines or agents which tend to lessen the animal temperature without causing any marked diminution of sensibility or nervous energy. Among inter- nal refrigerants cold water, weak acidulous drinks, and saline aperients, are those which are, probably, the best known, and the most useful. Among external refrigerants are cold, cold water, evaporating lotions, weak solutions of diacetate of lead, &c. REFRIGERATION. The abatement of heat; the act or operation of cooling. Among the purposes to which refrigeratory processes are applied in the arts, the principal are—the condensation of vapours—the cooling of liauids—the congelation of water, and—the production of extreme degrees of cold in chemi- cal operations. The first of these is referred to under the heads Distillation, Still, &c,j and the second, under Woet. It is, therefore, only necessary to notice here the third and fourth applications of cold, artificially pro- duced, above referred to. The refrigeratory processes at present em- ployed depend upon the greater capacity foi heat which the same body possesses as its' density ‘lessens, or its attenuation increases, as exhibited in the sudden liquefaction of solids the rapid evaporation of liquids, and the almost instantaneous return of atmospheric air, oi other gaseous body, from a highly condensei state to its normal condition. The loss of sen sible heat in the first example is the basis o the various processes of producing cold b; what are commonly called ‘ feeezing- ’ o ‘ FEiGOEiFic-MiXTUEES,’ all of which ac upon the principle of liquefying solid sub stances without supplying heat. The calori of liquidity being in these cases derived fron that previously existing in the solid itself i- a sensible state, the temperature must nece? sarily fall. The degree of cold produce depends upon the quantity of heat which i thus diffused through a larger mass, or whicl as it were, disappears; and this is dependen on the quantity of solid matter liquefied, an the rapidity of the liquefaction. Saline con, pounds are the substances most frequent! employed for this purpose, and those whic have the greatest affinity for water, and thx liquefy the most rapidly, produce the greatc! degree of cold. Similar changes occur durin the evaporation of liquids. When heat pass(* from the sensible to the insensible state, as i‘ the formation of vapour, cold is generate This may be shown by pouring a few drops ether or rectified spirit on the palm of tl hand, when a strong sensation of cold is exp rienced. A still more familiar illustration this fact is exhibited in the rapidity with whi< the animal body loses heat when enveloped damp or wet clothing. The evaporation water produces a degree of cold which greater than that of other liquids, in exa proportion as the insensible or latent heat its vapour exceeds theirs. In the attenuate or rarefaction of gases similar phenome occur. It has been found that evaporation procee Jij much more rapidly from the surface of flui in a vacuum than in the atmosphere. Wat may be easily frozen by introducing a surfa of sulphuric acid under the receiver of an a pump, over which is placed a capsule fill with water, so that the vapour arising fr( the latter may be immediately absorbed by t former. After a few strokes of the piston t water is converted into a solid cake of i The acid operates by absorbing the aquec vapours as soon as generated, and thus ma taining the integrity of the vacuum. T fessor Leslie found that, when air is thus ra