112 ALLSPICE—ALMOND, eBEATEE than the meati of their constituentis; Copper and bismuth, „ palladium, „ tin, „ zinc. Cold and antimony, „ bismuth, „ cobalt, „ tin, „ zinc, Lead and antimony. Palladium and bismuth. Platinum and molybdenum. Silver and antimony, „ bismuth, „ lead, „ tin, „ zinc. LESS than tlie mean of their constituents Gold and copper, „ iridium, „ iron, „ lead, „ nickel, „ silver. Iron and antimony, ,, bismuth, ,, lead. Nickel and arsenic. Silver and copper. Tin and antimony, „ lead, „ palladium. Zinc and antimony. Alloys having a Density— “ Every alloy,” says Dr. Ure, “ is, in reference to the arts and manufactures, a new metal, on account of its chemical and physical properties. A vast field here remains to be explored. Not above sixty alloys have been stirdied by chem- ists, out of many hundreds which may be made; and of these, very few have yet been practically employed. Very slight modifications often constitute very valuable improvements upon metallic bodies.” See Analysis, Assaying, Beass, Beonze, Electeotype, Geeman Sil- VEE, Gold, Metals, Specific Geavity, &c. ALL'SPICE. See Pimento. ALLU'TIAL (-Todv'-yal). Syn. Allu"- VIOIJS ^ ; ALLU^'VIUS, L. ; d’ALLUVION, Fr. In geology, applied to partial deposits of mud, sand, gravel, &c., left by rivers and floods upon land not permanently submerged beneath water; in agriculture, applied to soils so formed or deposited. ALLU"VIUM. [L., Eng.] Syn. Alluvion, Fr.; Anflossung, Anschwemmung, Ger. In geol. and agr., alluvial deposit or soil. See Soils, &c. ALLYL'AMINE (-lil'-a-mm). Syn. Aceyl'- AMINE. A new organic base first obtained by Hofmann and Cahorns, by boiling cyanate of aU /y/cwith a concentrated solution of pure pot assa. It is liquid, and boils at about 365® Fahr. AL'LYLE (-111). Syn. Al'lyl; Ac'eyle*. In chemistry, the radical of the essential oils containing sulphur, as those of assafoetida, garlic, horseradish, mustard, onions, &c., which are either sulphides or sulphocyanides of allxjle. Its probable existence was first shewn by Captain Reynolds, who succeeded in producing several of its ‘ derivatives.' It has since been obtained, in a separate state, by the action of sodium upon iodide of allyle. It is an oily substance with a high boiling point. Its leading compounds are— Bro'mide of Allyle; obtained by treating iodide of allyle with bromine. Chlo"ride of Allyle; obtained by the action of chloride of phosphorus on glycerine, or by treating iodide of allyle with chlorine or bi- chloride of mercury. I'odide of Allyle; obtained by MM. Berthelot and De liuca, by acting on glycerine, 57 parts, with iodide of phosphorus, 200 parts. It is an oily body, with a rather high boiling point, and is useful in preparing several other allyl- compounds. Ox'alate of Allyle; obtained by the action of oxalate of silver on an ethereal solution of iodide of allyle. An oily liquid, boiling at about 405° Fabr. SuFphide of Allyle; obtained (artificially) by acting on sulphocyanide of allyle with sul- phuret of potassium. See Oil of Gaelics. Sulphocy'anide of Allyle; obtained by sub- mitting iodide of allyle to the action of sulpho- cyanide of potassium ; or by gently heating a mixed alcoholic solution of sulphide of allyle and bichloride of mercury, with sulphocyanide of potassium. See Oil of Black Mustaed. ALLYL'IC ALCOHOL (-lil'-). Syn. Aceyl'ic ALCOHOL. A colourless and very mobile liquid, obtained by treating oxalate of allyle with ammonia; oxamide being at the same time produced. It has an acrid odour; mixes with water in all proportions; boils at 217^° Fahr.; and yields an ether (oxide of allyle ; ALLYL'IC ethee), and a series of compound ethees, &c., like ordinary alcohol. See Alcohols (in chemistry). AL'MANAC (awl'-). Literally, a calendar or diary (adapted to the months or seasons); a book or set of Tables too well known to require description. See Calendae (Perpetual), &c. AL'MOND (ah'-mund). Syn. Amyg'dala (also -us, -UM*), L.; Amande, Fr.; Mandel, Ger., Dut., Dan., Swed. The ‘almond-tree’ [amyg'dolus commu’nis—Linn.; Ph. L., E., and D.; Amandier—Fr.), a tree of the not. ord., Rosacese, indigenous to Persia, Syria, and