ACETYLIC ACID—ACID. 2G originally described by Malaguti and Eegnault are—Chloeide of acetyle, formed by the lengthened exposure of chloride of ethyle to the action of chlorine and light. It is a heavy, colourless, fuming liquid, decomposed by water, yielding acetic and hydrochloric acid. —OxYCHLOEiDE OF ACETYLE, prepared by saturating anhydrous ether with perfectly dry chlorine gas, exposure to external cold, and afterwards to a gentle heat. A transparent colourless fluid.—Sfb-oxychloeide of ace- tyle, a gas formed by heating the last article in contact with potassium.—Oxysulphueet OF acetyle, made by passing sulphuretted hy- drogen through the oxychloride, until an oily liquid forms, which by exposure becomes semi-crystalline; this, by solution in hot al- cohol, is obtained in crystals as the liquid cools.— Obs. It is probable that nearly all the above substances are othyl-compounds; in which case their nomenclature should be changed. For the chloeide of acetyle, of Gerhardt, see Acetic Acid (Anhydrous), and Othyle. ACETYL'IC ACID (-til'-). Acetic acid. ACE'TYLOUS ACID. Aldehydic acid. ACHAR'. See Pickles. ACHILLE'INE (-kil-). A peculiar bitter principle obtained from achille'a millefo"Hum (Linn.), or yarrow. See Alkaloids. A'CHOR (-kor). [Gr.] See Scald-head. ACHROMAT'IC (ak-ro-). Syn. Acheo- MATIQUE, Fr. In optics, devoid of colour; that transmit light without decomposition, 'and consequently, without the formation of coloured rings or fringes; applied to compound lenses, prisms, &c., and to instruments fitted with them. ACHRO'MATISM. Syn. Acheomatic'ity * (-tis'-); Acheomatisme, Fr. In optics, the state of being achromatic; the absence of coloured fringes in the images of objects seen through a lens or prism. Light is not homogeneous, but decomposable by refraction, absorption, or reflection, into coloured rays of unequal refrangibility. A ray of white light, in passing through a glass prism, is entirely separated into the coloured rays forming the * prismatic spectrum -and when it passes through a lens, an analogous resolution into coloured rays still occurs, though not so readily observed, and that to an extent often incompatible with distinct vision. Now, if a convex lens be regarded as a number of prisms united by their bases round a common centre, and a concave lens, as a similar number of prisms with their apices in contact, the action of lenticular and pris- matic glasses on light will be reduced to a common principle. A beam of light thrown on a simple converging lens, not only suffers refraction at the spherical surface (spheeical abeeeation), but the different coloured rays of which it is composed, from the causes men- tioned, being unequally bent or refracted, di- verge from their original course (cheomatic abeeeation), forming as many foci on the axis of the lens as there are colours, and fall separately, instead of together, on the eye or object which receives them. Hence arise the coloured fringes or halos that surround objects viewed through ordinary glasses, and which form the great impediments to the construction of perfect lenses. This effect, like the refrac- tive power and focal distance, varies in de- gree in different diaphanous substances. The correction of the chromatic aberration of lenses is commonly effected by combining two, or more, made of materials possessing different ‘ dispersive’ powers. Thus, the spec- trum formed flint glass is longer than that formed by crown glass, for the same deviation. When the two are combined, so as to form a compound lens, the one tends to correct the ‘ dispersion’ of the other. On this principle ACHEOMATIC GLASSES are generally formed in this country. A convex lens of crown glass is combined with a weaker concave lens of flint glass, the latter counteracting the dispersion of the former, without materially interfering with its refractive power. The resulting combi- nation is not absolutely achromatic, but is sufficiently so for all ordinary purposes. Ac- cording to Dr. Blair, a compound lens per- fectly achromatic for the intermediate, as well as for the extreme rays, may be made by con- fining certain fluids, as hydrochloric acid, be- tween two lenses of crown glass. In order to produce nearly perfect achromatism in the ob- ject glasses of telescopes, microscopes, cameras, &c., a concave lens of flint glass is commonly placed between two convex lenses of crown or plate glass, the adjacent surfaces beingcemented with the purest Canada balsam, to prevent the loss of light by reflection from so many sur- faces. Obs. The production of perfect achromatism in lenses is a subject not less fraught with difficulty than with practical importance to the astronomer, the mariner, the microscopist, and the photographer; and it has hence en- gaged the attention of the leading mathema- ticians and artists of Europe up to the present time. All the larger object glasses lately manu- factured are said to consist of only two lenses; the resulting achromatism proving sufficiently exact for all useful purposes. Those of recent production have come chiefly from the work- shops of Dollond, of London, and the opticians of Bavaria and Switzerland. The achromatism of prisms depends upon the same principles, and it is effected in the same way, as that of lenses. See Lens, Light, Miceoscope, Pho- TOGEAPHY, &C. ACIC'ULAR. Needle-shaped; slender or sharp pointed; spicular; in botany, applied to leaves, and in chemistry, to crystals. The last are also sometimes termed acic'tjl.e. ACTD i;as'-id). Syn. Ac'idum, (as'-), L.; Acide, Fr.; Acido, It.; Sauee, Ger.; iEoED, Sax. In familiar language, any substance possessing sourness or acidity; in chemistry.