371 BRUISE—BUG. j Prep. Ground nuw-vomica, or the harlc of i brucia antidysenterica, is boiled in dilute sul- i phuric acid, and the resulting ‘ decoction ^ j mixed with hydrate of lime (in excess); the j crude ‘ precipitate ’ thus obtained is boiled in j alcohol (sp. gr. ’850), and the ‘tincture’ fil- ' tered whilst hot. A mixture of crude * strych- ■ nine ’ and ‘ brucia ’ is deposited as the fluid I cools, and the remainder is obtained by evapo- ! ration. This is powdered and digested in cold j alcohol, which dissolves out the brucine ; the I solution furnishes crystals on spontaneous evaporation. It may be further purified by I re-crystallisation from alcohol. 1 Prop. Soluble in 850 parts of cold, and i about 500 parts of hot water; freely soluble in ; alcohol; added to the dilute acids until they I are neutralised, it forms crystallisable salts, [easily obtained by evaporation. Of these, [ the sulphate and bisulphate, the hydrochlorate, phosphate, nitrate and binitrate, acetate, oxa- late, and some others, have been examined. I Most of these are very soluble in water. I Tests. It is distinguished from strychnia, 1 which in many respects it resembles, by its ready solubility in both dilute and absolute lalcohol, and its insolubility in ether. With ‘ nitric acid ’ it strikes a fine red-colour, which jis removed by sulphuretted hydrogen and sul- phurous acid. Iodic acid, chloric acid, and [chlorine, also turn it red. j Uses, ^c. The physiological effects of brucia lire similar to those of strychnia, but it appears to possess only about ^jth of the strength of Ibhat alkaloid.—Bose. \ gr. to 1 gr., or even 2 daily, in divided doses, either in the form if pill or solution; in similar cases to those n which strychnia is prescribed. It is ex- j^remely poisonous. The antidotes and treat- vnent are the same as those for strychnia. 1 BRUISE (br5oze). Syn. Contu'sio, Con- jcu'suM, L.; Contusion, Meuetrissuee, Fr. ; |Brausche, Quetschung, &c., Ger. A con- tusion ; but in popular language applied j chiefly to cases in which there is an extravasa- tion of blood owing to the rupture of the minute vessels, with consequent discoloration |)r tumefaction of the part. I Treatm. In common cases, sufficiently jierious, bruises may be rubbed with a little opodeldoc or soap-liniment; or, if the inflam- jnation be considerable, they may be bathed Ivith a little tveah goulard-water, or with \'inegar-and-water. In more severe cases ieeches may be applied. See Contusion. I BRUNS'WICK BLACK. See Varnishes. i Brunswick Green. See Green Pigments. ! BRY'ONINE (-mil). A peculiar bitter prin- i’iple extracted from the root of ‘ white bryony’ bryonia dioica, Jacq.). It is obtained from the Iry extract of the expressed juice, by solution n alcohol, filtration, and cautious evaporation. Prop., ^c. A yellowish-white mass. It is i drastic purgative; and, in large doses, loisonous. It enters into the composition >f several quack medicines. BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK. In cookery, a species of ‘olla podrida’ variously prepared, as the materials and fancy of the maker dic- tate. Prep. (Rundell.) Take slices of cold meat, fry them quickly until brown, and put them into a dish to keep them hot. Then clean the pan from the fat; put in it greens and carrots (previously boiled and chopped small); add a little butter, pepper, and salt; make them very hot, and put them round the beef with a little gravy. Cold boiled pork is a better ma- terial for bubble and squeak than beef. In either case the slices should be very thin and lightly fried. BUB'BLE EEVERJ. See Pemphigus. BU'CHU (-ku). The plant dio^ma crena'ta (which see). BUCK'THORN. Syn. Rham'nus, L. The rham'nus cathar'ticus (Linn.). Berries (bac'c^ rham'ni, L,), cathartic; Jm/cc of the berries (sue'eus R., L.) is officinal in the Ph. L. & E. See Rhamnine, Syrups, &c. BUCK'WHEAT. See Wheat. BUG. Syn. Ci'mex, L.; Punaise, Fr.; Wanze, Ger.' A name popularly and very loosely applied to a vast number of insects that infest houses and plants; in zoology, hemipterous insects of the genus ‘ cimex,’ of which there are many hundred species; appr., the bed-bug. Bug. Syn. Bed'-BUG, House'-b., Wall-b., Wall'-louse*, &c. ; Ci'mex domes'ticus, C. lectula"rius (Linn.), L.; Punaise, Fr.; Bettwanze, Hauswanze, Ger. An insect too well known in all the larger towns of Europe and America, and in the ‘ huts of squalid poverty’ everywhere, to require a de- scription here. It is almost the only species of the bug-kind that has undeveloped wings. Its introduction to England is believed to have occurred soon after the ‘ great Fire of London’ (a.d. 1666). Human blood appears to be its favorite food; but it will also eat grain, seed, flour, dried paste, size, soft deal, beech, ozier, &c. Cedar, mahogany, and the odorous and harder woods, are usually avoided by this insect. Aromatics, perfumes, and strong odours generally, are unfavorable to its propagation. Exterm., <^c. Various means have been adopted to prevent the accession, and to de- stroy or drive away, these enemies of “ tired nature’s sweet restorer, balmy sleep.” Among the most certain of these is thorough cleanli- ness, and ventilation. The furniture brokers put articles infested with these insects into a room with doors and windows fitting quite close, and subject them to t\io fumes of burning sulphur or of chlorine. In the small way, poisonous washes are commonly resorted to. For this purpose nothing is more effective than chloride of lime or chloride of zinc; the latter being preferable to the other on account of its being comparatively scentless. 'The contents of a half-pint bottle of Crew’s ‘ Bis-