524 I DOUCHE—DRAUGHT. The following rules and tables have been framed, chiefly with reference to age; but, as Dr. R. E. Griffith correctly observes, ‘‘ no scheme can be devised, founded on age alone, to which there are not many exceptions.” 1. Formula q/’Dr. Young. For children under 12 years, the doses of most medicines must he diminished in the proportion of the age to the age increased by 12. Thus, at 2 years, the dose will be l-7th of that for an adult. for 2 2 -i- 12 l-7th. II. Posological Table of GaubiuS. For an adult, suppose the dose to be \ or jb or 5 grains. ^ or 8 grains. -g or 10 grains, i or 15 grains, i or 1 scruple. 5 or g drachm. § or 2 scruples. ,, 21 to 60, the full dose, or 1 or 1 drachm. Above this age an inverse gradation must be observed. 1 drachm. Under 1 year will require „ 2 years „ « 3 „ „ 4 „ „ 7 „ » 14 „ „ „ 20 „ III. Posological Table, from Phoebus. Age—Years 80 65 50 25-40 20 16 12 8 5 2 Doses i f i 1 i f i I i i „ Months 12 6 2 1 Doses 1 I J, DOUCHE. [Fr.] Syn. Douche bath. A species of bath much employed by hydro- pathlsts, both for the relief of local affections and to give a healthy stimulus to the whole system. The douche consists of a single jet of cold water, varying in size from the thickness of a quill to that of a man’s arm; it is pro- jected with great force, either from above, below, or on one side, upon a particular part of the body. See Bath (Shower). DOVER’S POWDERS. See Powdee. DRACO'NIC ACID. Obtained by the action of nitric acid upon the oil of Artemisia dra~ cunculus, or tarragon. It is said to be identical with anisic acid. DRACO'NINE. Syn. Dea'cine, Red eesin OE deagon’s blood, a peculiar vegetable principle discovered by M. Melandre in dra- gon’s blood. Prep. Dragon’s blood is dissolved in alcohol, the solution filtered, concentrated, and pre- cipitated with cold water ; the red, spongy pre- cipitate is well washed, neutralized with dilute sulphuric acid, again liberated, and well w^ashed with water. Prop., 8fc. Draconine has a fine red colour; is tasteless, inodorous, and flexible; it fuses at 131° Fahr. The smallest quantity of car- bonate of lime in filtering paper may be de- tected by sulphate of draconine, the yellow colour instantly turning red. DRAGON’S BLOOD. Syn. Sanguis dea- CONIS, L. A rich red-coloured resin, obtained from various species of the genus Calamus. Its colour, in the lump, is a dark brownish-red; in powder, bright red. It is friable, breaks with a shining fracture, and has a sp. gr. not higher than 1*196 or 1*197. When pure, it readily dissolves in alcohol, ether, and oils, yielding rich red, transparent solutions. Adul- terated and factitious dragon’s blood is only partly soluble, and lacks the rich colour of the genuine article. Dragon’s blood is chiefly used to tinge varnishes and lacquers. Facti"tious Dragon’s Blood. Prep. 1. Shell- lac, 4 lb.; melt, remove from the fire, and add, Canada balsam, 6 oz., and gum benzoin, 2 oz.; mix well, stir in red sender’s wood, lb., and Venetian red, | lb. (both in fine powder); and form the mass into sticks. 2. As the last, omitting the Venetian red. DRAUGHT. Syn. Haustus, L. A single dose of liquid medicine, usually dispensed in one- and-a-half-ounce or two-ounce phials. Draughts are almost exclusively extemporaneous com- pounds, and differ from ‘ mixtures’ only in containing one dose; whereas mixtures contain several. The latter have now very generally superseded draughts among all but the higher classes, when the dose is to be frequently repeated. Draughts possess the advantages of extreme convenience, and, from only one phial being opened at a time, of preserving the pre- paration better than when it is exposed to the air by the frequent removal of the cork. They are usually taken from a wine-glass, which they about fds fill. In the preparalion of draughts the same pre- cautions are observed as are pointed out under Mixtuee ; regard being had to the increased volume of the dose. The ingredients of a six^ ounce mixture, for example, containing (say) 12 doses, may be equally distributed among a dozen draught-phials, after which each may be filled up with distilled water, or any other simple vehicle. In most cases, a little syrup may be advantageously added. In many in- stances no addition will be required, the doses of each form of preparation being the same. The following are useful formula, which will serve as examples for others of the class. The number might be easily multiplied, and, indeed, might be extended so as to include 3-4ths of the whole materia medica; but such a plan would lead to useless repetitions and occupy much space. See Mixtuee, Peesceibing, &c. Abernethy’s Draught. See Abeenethy Me- dicines and Mixtuee. Ac'etate of Ammo"nia Draught. Syn. Haustus ammonle acetatis, L. Prep. 1. (St. B. Hosp.) Solution of acetate of ammonia, 4 fl. dr.; water to make fl. oz. 2. (Dr. Paris.) Camphor mixture, fl. oz.; liquor of acetate of ammonia, 4 fl. dr.; anti- monial wine, 20 drops; mix. As a refrigerant and diaphoretic in febrile affections; taken late in the evening. \ i t f