EXTRACT. 615 Obs. There are few formula) which have indergone so many alterations in the hands of the College as that for compound extract of \'iolocynth. Before 1809, proof spirit was or- jiered to be employed as the menstruum, and, !omitting the soap, the preparation resembled jthat of the Ph. L. 1836. In 1809, the College !directed water to be used instead of spirit, and added a certain quantity of soap. In the next [sdition of the Pharmacopoeia (1815), the soap |;vas again omitted; but in the edition of 1824, jthe formula of 1809 was again adopted, sub- litituting, however, proof spirit for the water. ! These directions were also continued in the jedition of 1836. In the last London Pharma- jcopoeia (1851) the formula for this extract is [omitted altogether, and in its place a pill .(piLiJLA COLOCYNTHIDIS composita) is in- serted. The compound extract of colocynth and the simple and compound extracts of sarsaparilla I are in greater demand in the wholesale trade, ;and are sold in larger quantities at a time, Ithan all the other medicinal extracts put to- Igether. As a proof, if it were necessary, that I honesty is the best policy, it may be mentioned, I that a certain metropolitan druggist, remark- able for the superiority of this preparation, has obtained no inconsiderable fortune by its sale alone j while the host of miserable vendors ! of the evaporated decoction of musty colocynth [seed. Cape aloes, worthless scammony, and \ scentless cardamoms, sold under the name, attempt to ruin each other, by offering their ! rubbish at a price that precludes the possi- i bility of a large profit, or even of the esta- blishment of a respectable connection. Extract of Contrayer'va. Syn. Exteactttm CONTEAYERV^, L. Prep. (Palat. Cod.) From ! contrayerva root, as extract of cinchona— kPh. L. Dose. 10 gr. to ^ dr.; as a diapho- ^retic tonic, in low conditions of the system. I Extract of Copai'ba. Syn. Resinous ex- [ TRACT OF COPAIBA; EXTRACTUM COPAIBJE, 1E. c. resinosum, L. Prep. (Mr. Thorn.) i From balsam of copaiba, by distilling off the oil, until the residuum assumes the consistence of an extract. Dose. 10 to 20 gr., or more. One of the many useless preparations which I encumber modern pharmacy. It may be taken I in 3 dr. doses without any perceptible effect beyond a fit of indigestion. Extract of Copal'che. Syn. Extractum co- PALCHi, E. CORTICIS C., L. Prep. From eo- Ipalchi bark {Croton pseudo-China'), as extract ! OF CASCARiLLA, which it foi’ the most part I resembles. Dose. 1 to 3 gr. I Extract of Couch Grass. Syn. Extract of I dog’s GRASS; EXTRACTUM GRAMINIS, L. I Prep. 1. (P. Cod.) From the root of couch \ grass, or dog’s grass {Triticum repens), as EX- I TRACT OF BISTORT—P. Cod. j 2. Prom the fresh root, as EXTRACT OF I ACONITE—Ph. L. I 3. (Fluid ; MeLLAGO GRAMINIS, EXTRACTUM ! GRAMINIS FLUIDUM, L.—Ph. Hann, 1831.) Prom the decoction of the fresh root of couch grass, evaporated to the consistence of new honey. Pectoral. Dose. 15 gr. to \ dr., or more. Extract of Cu'bebs. Syn. Extractum cu- BEBiE, L. Prep. 1. From the alcoholic tinc- ture evaporated by a very gentle heat. Dose, 5 gr. to 30 gr. 2. (Mr. Toller.) To the last add a little powdered Castile soap, when it begins to thicken, and evaporate to a pilular consistence. Dose. 10 gr. to 30 gr. 3. (Fluid; Liquor cubeb^, Extractum c. FEUIDUM, L.)—a. Cubebs (ground in a coffee- mill), I5 lb. ; rectified spirit, 1 quart; prepare a tincture, either by displacement or by di- gestion for a week, and reduce it, by distilla- tion at a very gentle heat, until the whole mea- sures exactly 1 pint. Every fl. oz. represents 2 oz. of cubebs. Dose. 20 to 40 drops. b. (M. Puche.) From cubebs proof spirit, equal parts, by percolation; without subse- quent evaporation. Represents its own weight in cubebs. Dose. ^ to 1 fl. dr. c. (Ph. U. S. 1851.) Cubebs, 1 lb. (nearly); ether, q. s,; make 1 quart of tincture; then distil off 1| pint of the ether by the heat of a water bath, and expose the residuum in a shallow vessel until the remainder of the ether has evaporated. 4. (Oleo-resinous; Extractum cubebs, E. CUBEBARUM, E. C. OLEO-RESINOSUM, L.)—a. (M. Dublanc.) The essential oil, resulting from the careful distillation of any given quantity of cubebs, is mixed with the resinous extract obtained by evaporating a tincture of the dried residuum made with rectified spirit; the whole being reduced to the consistence of a thick syrup. 1 lb. cubebs yields about 6 oz. of this extract. b. (Labelonge.) Cubebs are first exhausted with ether, and then with proof spirit, in a displacement apparatus; the alcoholic tincture is evaporated to an extract over a water bath, and when cold, the ethereal tincture is mixed with it, and the mixture abandoned to spon- taneous evaporation until the ether is vola- tilized. c. (W. Procter.) An ethereal tincture (by displacement) is poured into a large retort, and 5-6ths is drawn over by the heat of a water bath ; the evaporation of the residuum, to the proper consistence, is carried on at a heat not exceeding 120° Fahr. The formula of the Ph. Baden is nearly similar. Said to* represent 6 to 8 times its weight in cubebs. 1 lb. yields 2 oz. of this extract. d. (Hamb. Cod. 1845.) This resembles a {above^ * Obs. This extract has a darkish-brown colour, and tastes and smells strongly of cubebs. It is only slightly soluble in water. Dose. 5 gr. to 20 gr.; made into an emulsion or pills, or enclosed in a capsule. See Cubebs. Extract of Cu'cumber. See Elaterium. Extract of Cuspa"ria. Extraoi: of an’^