76 ALCOHOLOMETRY. illegal strength, it becomes seizable. A sur- plus, however small, of more than 2 gal. over the quantity that should remain in hand of any one ‘ qualitif (kind) of spirit, after de- ducting the amount sent out by ‘permits^ from the stock, as settled at the previous survey, is also seizable ; and even, if an increase fre- quently occurs, though it be ‘ less than two gallons’ it immediately attracts the notice of the officers, and frequently leads to inquiries and inconvenience to the dealer; as it is pre- sumed that no such increase can occur by the legitimate transactions of trade. The strength of sweetened spirits cannot he determined by the common hydrometer, or by the specific gravity, as already explained. The Revenue authorities, aware of this fact, merely require a verbal declaration of the strength of British and other compounds that contain sugar. Thus, gin and cordial liqueurs are never tested for their ‘ strengthwhilst brandyy rum, Sj'c., are always so. Several other methods of alcoholometry, be- sides those already noticed in this work, have been adopted at various times; hut the ma- jority of them possess so little accuracy, as to be quite inapplicable to the purposes of trade, and of the laboratory. Thus the strength of sj)irit was at one time estimated by what was called the ^ proof.’ A little of the spirit was poured upon a small quantity of gunpowder, contained in a spoon or saucer, so as just to moisten it, and Avas then inflamed. If explo- sion followed the combustion of the spirit, the sample was said to he ‘ above’ or ‘ over proof’; if the gunpowder only languidly ‘ fizzed ’ away, or slowly burnt, the spirit was saidto be ‘ jwroo/'’; hut if it remained so moist as not to take fire, it was declared to be ‘ below’ or ‘ under proof’ Hence arose the terms ‘proof’ and ‘proof spirit;’ which have since been adopted by Act of Parliament. The inaccuracy of this plan is evident; for if a certain quantity of a spirit is capable of firing the gunpowder, a little excess of a spirit 20g or 25g stronger, will often fail to do so. Another method, is the ‘ preuye d’Holland’ of the French, or the ‘bead,’ still frequently employed by persons unac- quainted Vv^ith the use of the hydrometer. It consists in shaking the spirit in a phial, and observing the size, number, and duration of the bubbles, or ‘ beads,’ as they are called. The larger and more numerous these are, and the more rapidly they break and disappear, the stronger the spirit is presumed to be. This method is liable to be influenced by circum- stances, which will affect the sp. gr. in only a very trifling degree. Thus the addition of a little sugar or acid to the spirit, barely suffi- cient to alter the indication of the hydrometer Ig, will sometimes give to a weak sample the appearanc;e of one many degrees stronger. Lovi’s BEADS are also often employed to ascer- tain the strength of spirit, when an hydro- meter is not at hand. The measurement of the sudden increase of temperature produced by mixing a ‘known weight’ of spirit with a ‘ known weight ’ of pure water being observed by a thermometer, has likewise been proposed for the same purpose; hut it has found little favour amongst practical men. Indeed it would require for its application a series of Tables based on actual experiments, and which we do not as yet possess. The insufficiency of most of the methods of alcoholometry here referred to, throws us back on the Revenue System, or on the specific gra- vity, for UNSWEETENED SPIRITS; and on the ebullioscope, dilatatometer, oenometer, potash- test, distillation, 8^c. (previously described), for SWEETENED SPIRITS, as cordials, ivines, beer, and other liquors containing extractive matter or sugar. The spirituous liquors of commerce being sold by measure, and not by ‘ weight,’ the methods of alcoholometry which give the results, per cent., by volume, dxe those which we have chiefly rested on, and the most elaborately explained. In the labor at ory,t\ia method by weight is that most generally employed in delicate processes and in analyses. By weight, the per-centage of alcohol remains the same for all tempera- tures, for the same sample; whilst by volume, the per-centage varies with the temperature of the liquid. Hence, frequently arise those ir- regularities of ‘stocks’ and ‘surveys,’ which the unscientific officer and the unlettered cel- larman are unable to explain. Many of the sudden apparent ‘ decreases’ and ‘ increases ’ which occur in large stocks of spirits, may be thus satisfactorily accounted for. In like man- ner, the discrepancies between the results and statements of many chemical writers on al- cohol, may doubtless be referred to the neglect of the corrections rendered necessary by the changes just noticed. Thus, persons pur- chasing spirits during warm weather, and paying for them according to their apparent quantity and strength, lose considerably by selling the same spirit when the weather be- comes colder, Avithout being conscious of such loss from the hydrometer. For the relative proportions of the alcohol to the water, or the ‘ apparent strength,’ continues the same; whilst the specific gravity and the volume alter with the temperature; the last being increased by ‘ warmth,’ and lessened by ‘ cold,’ in exact opposition to the former. Accuracy requires, in all cases, that a spirituous liquor should be tested for its strength at the temperature at which it Avas measured; and measured at the same temperature at which its strength Avas determined. A consideration of these facts has led some of the great houses to introduce the system of weighing their spirits instead of ‘ measuring’ them; the weight of an imperial gallon at 60° Fahr. being taken as the ‘ standard gallon.’ The following Table has been constructed to remove the necessity of the tedious and . difficult calculations which are ordinarily re- quired to determine the equivalent strengths.