COPPER. 482 Ktjpfer salmiak, Ger. Prep. (Ph. L.) Sul- phate of copper, 1 oz. j sesquicarbonate of ammonia, oz.; rub together until car- bonic acid ceases to be evolved, then wrap it in bibulous paper, and dry it in the air. The Ph. E. & D. order the same propor- tions. Pur. “ Pulverulent; dark blue; at an in- tense heat it is changed into oxide of copper, at first sesquicarbonate of ammonia, and, after- wards, sulphate of ammonia, being thrown off. It is soluble in water. This solution changes the colour of turmeric to brown; and arse- nious acid being added, it turns green.^^ (Ph. L.) Uses, 8fc. It is occasionally employed in pyrotechny. In medicine, it has been given in chorea, epilepsy, hysteria, &c., but is now principally used as an injection, as a wash for foul ulcers, and as a collyrium, in opacity of the cornea. Dose. \ gr., gradually increased to 5 gr., twice a day. Great care must be taken in drying this article, as it is apt not only to lose a large portion of its weight, but to be- come of an inferior colour. Both the ingre- dients should be separately reduced to powder before mixing them. See Pills, Solution, &c. Ammoni'uret of Copper*. The term com- monly applied to a compound formed by dis- solving a salt or oxide of copper in ammonia. When liquor of ammonia is mixed with a solu- tion of a salt of copper, it gives a pale-blue precipitate, but a little more ammonia causes this to dissolve, producing a rich-purple colour. This solution has the peculiar property of dis- solving CELLULOSE (cotton, paper, &c.). The solvent is best prepared by dissolving basic carbonate of copper in strong liquor of ammo- nia ; thus made, it appears to be an ammo- niacal solution of oxide of copper. Obs. The cellulose may be precipitated from the solution in colourless flakes by the addition of acids. See Ammoniuret. Ar'senite of Copper. See Green Pigments {Scheele’s Green). Car'bonate of Copper. Syn. Diba'sic car- bonate OP COPPER, Dicarbonate op c.; CuPRl CARBON AS, L. Prep. Add carbonate of soda in excess to a solution of sulphate of cop- per, and warm the mixture till the pale-blue, flocculent precipitate becomes sandy and as- sumes a green tint. Used as a pigment. See Green Pigments and Verditer. Obs. As prepared above, the carbonate con- tains 2 equivalents of water. The beautiful green mineral, mal'achite, has a similar com- position, but contains only 1 equiv. of water. Another carbonate (tribasic c., blue c.), occurs as a natural ore in large, transparent crystals, of the most intense blue; it has not yet been artificially imitated. Clilo"rides of Copper. Two compounds of chlorine and copper are well known, viz.:— 1. Siibchlo^ride of Copper. Syn. Dichlo- RIUE OF COPPER, ReS'IN OF C.; Cu'PRI 8UB- chlori'dum, L. Prep. 1. From copper filings, 1 part; corrosive sublimate, 2 parts; distilled together. 2. By putting copper filings or copper foil into chlorine gas. 3. By exposing the neutral chloride of cop~ per to the action of heat. Prop. White; fusible; slightly soluble in water; and decomposed by exposure to the air. 2. Neu'tral Chloride of Copper. Syn. Chlo- ride OF COPPER; Mu"RIATE OF C.* ; Cu'PRI Chlori'dum, L. Prep. From copper scales or black oxide of copper dissolved in hydrochloric acid, and the solution evaporated and crystal- lized. Prop., 8fc. Green, acicular crystals; deli- quescent; soluble in alcohol, the flame of which it colours green. When gently heated, it loses water, and assumes the form of a yel- lowish-brown powder (anhydrous chloride OF copper) ; at a high temperature it loses half its chlorine, and becomes converted into the SUBCHLORIDE (see above). I'odide of Copper. Syn. Dini'odide of cop- per, SUBl'ODIDE OF C. ; Cu'PRI IODI'DUM, L. Prep. 1. By adding iodide of potassium to a solution of a salt of copper. A greenish-white precipitate. 2. (Commercial.) To a solution of sulphate of copper, 1 part, and protosulphate of iron, 3 parts, add a solution of iodide of potassium, and wash and dry the precipitate. This is the preparation commonly known in trade by the name of ‘ iodide of copper* Ni'trate of Copper. Syn. Cu'pri ni'tras, L. Prep. 1. By dissolving the copper in dilute nitric acid to saturation; evaporating to dry- ness ; redissolving in distilled water ; filtering, evaporating, and allowing to crystallize. 2. From black oxide of copper and nitric acid. 3. From carbonate of copper and nitric acid. 4. Add solution of sulphate of copper to solu- tion of nitrate of lead so long as sulphate of lead is precipitated; filter, evaporate, and crystallize. Obs. The salt may be purified by reerystal- lization. It must be kept in well-stoppered bottles, as it is very deliquescent. Prop., Uses, 8fc. Deep-blue prismatic crys- tals, very soluble in water and deliquescent, soluble in alcohol. Generally used in medi- cine externally, in injections, or as a caustic, but sometimes given internally, dissolved in mucilaginous liquids. Dose. | to ^ gr. Oxides of Copper. Three oxides of copper have been noticed by chemists;— 1. Suboxide of Copper. Syn. Red oxide OF COPPER, DiNOX'IDE OF C.; CUPRI SUB- ox'YDUM, L. Prep. 1. From fine copper filings, 4 parts; black oxide of copper, 5 parts; heated together in a covered crucible. 2. Add grape sugar to a solution of sulphate or acetate of copper, then further add caustic pofassa, in excess; the blue solution heated to