839 LINEX. I cold weather, as well as in hot weather and I hot climates, than calico. The latter, how- t ever, lacks the luxurious softness and fresh- I ness of linen, whilst the peculiar twisted and jagged character of its fibres render it apt to excite irritation in extremely delicate skins. I The common prejudice in favour of old linen ; and fiax lint for dressing wounds is thus I shown to have reason on its side, and, like j many other vulgar prejudices, to be supported j by the investigations of science. I Identif. Linen fabrics are commonly sophis- j ticated with cotton, which is a much less I costly and a more easily wrought material, j Various plans have been proposed to detect I this fraud, many of which are too complicated ; and difficult for practical purposes. The fol- I lowing commend themselves for their sim- plicity and ease of application:— j ^ 1. A small strip (a square inch, for instance) j of the suspected cloth is immersed for 2 or 3 minutes in a boiling mixture of about equal parts of hydrate of potassa and water, con- tained in a vessel of silver, porcelain, or hard glass; after which it is taken out and pressed between the folds of white blotting paper or porous calico. By separating 8 or 10 threads in each direction, their colour may be readily seen. The deep yellow threads are linen, the white ov pale yellow ones are cotton. 2. A small strip of the cloth, after having been repeatedly washed with rain water, boiled in the water, and dried, is immersed for 1 to 2 minutes in oil of vitriol; it is then withdrawn, I carefully pressed under water with the fingers, j washed, immersed for a few seconds in liquor I of ammonia, solution of carbonate of potassa, i or solution of carbonate of soda, again washed I with water, and dried between filtering paper. ' By this treatment the cotton fibres are dis- ^ solved, while the linen fibres are merely ren- I dered thinner and more translucent, according I to the duration of the experiment; after a short immersion, the cotton fibres appear I transparent, while the linen fibres remain I white and opaque. j 3. (By the miceoscope.) The indications I afforded by both the previous tests, although quite visible to the naked eye, are rendered still more palpable by the use of a magnifying glass of small power, as the com- mon pocket lens. Under a good microscope the presence of cotton in a linen tissue is very per- ceptible. The fibres of cotton present a distinctly flat and shrivelled ap- pearance, not unlike that of a narrow, twisted rib- bon, with only occasional I joints; whilst those offiax2>xQ round, straight, and jointed. The fibres of cotton, after being I exposed to the action of strong alkaline lyes. untwist themselves, contract in length, and assume a rounded form, but still continue dis* tinct in appearance from the fibres of linen. The engraving represents a fibre of linen (1) and a fibre of cotton (2), as they appear when magnified 155 diameters. The difference be- tween the two may be perceived, although less distinctly, through a good Stanhope or Cod- dington lens, provided the object be well illuminated. Dyeing. Linen and cotton, from the simi- larity of their behaviour with dye-stuffs, are treated in nearly the same manner. The affinity of their fibres for colouring matter is very much weaker than that of the fibres of silk and woollen. On this account they are dyed with greater difficulty than those sub- stances, and the colours so imparted are, in general, less brilliant and permanent under similar conditions. Linen shows less dispo- sition to take dyes than cotton. The ‘ yarn * or ‘ cloth,' after being scoured and bleached in the usual manner, requires to have an addi- tional tendency given to it, by chemical means, to condense and retain the materials of the dye-bath in its pores. This is effected by steeping the goods in solutions (iiOEDANTs) wffiich have at once an affinity for both the fibres of the cloth and the colouring matter, A similar process is employed in dyeing most other substances; but with cotton and linen, attention to this point is essential to the per* manency of the dye. These matters are more fully explained under the heads Dyeing and Moedant. The domestic management of linen may here receive a few moments' attention. Feijit STAINS, lEON-MOULDS, and Other spots on linen, may, in general, be removed by applying to the part, previously washed clean, a weak solution of chlorine, chloride of lime, spirits of salts, oxalic acid, or salts of lemons, in warm water, and frequently by merely using a little lemon juice. VTien the stain is removed, the part should be thoroughly rinsed in clear warm water (without soap) and dried. Kecent IEON-MOI7LDS or INK SPOTS on starched linen, as the front of a shirt, may be conveniently removed by allowing a drop or two of melted tallow from a common candle to fall upon them before sending the articles to the laundress. The oxide of iron combines with the grease, and the two are washed out together. If the spot is not entirely removed the first time, the process should be repeated. Linen that has acquired a yellow or bad colour by careless washing, may be restored to its former white- ness by working it well in water to which some strained solution of chloride of lime has been added, observing to well rinse it in clean water, both before and after the immersion in the bleaching liquor. The attempt to bleach unwashed linen should be avoided, as also using the liquor too strong, as in that case the linen will be rendered rotten. See Bleaching, Lime (Hypochlorite), &c.