52 AILMENT—AIR. cookery, a term applied to several small dishes, from the articles of which they consist being mounted on silver needles, or skewers, with or- namental handles or tops. (See Engr.) They form one of the varieties of the ‘hors-d’oeuvres’ of Soyer; and are commonly served on a napkin. The skewers should he about four inches long, and of the thickness of an ordi- nary packing needle. The person eating what is served on them, takes the head of the skewer between the thumb and fingers of the left hand, and picks it oft' with his fork. Those noticed by Soyer are— Aiguillettes a TEperlan {smells); Aiguillettes aux Huitres (oysters); Aiguillettes de Filets de Sole (soles); Aiguillettes de Homard (lobsters); Aiguillettes de Langue de Boeuf (ox-tongue) ; Aiguillettes de Ris de Veau (sweetbread of veal); Aiguillettes de Volaille a la Jolie Fille (fowl) j— all of which are prepared in a nearly similar manner, merely varying the sauces, &c., to suit the article and palate. See Attelettes, Hors-d’ceuvres, &c. AIL'MENT. Pain, indisposition; disease. Its use is generally restricted to the non- acute, and milder forms of disease. AIR (a'er or are). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. A'er,. L. (from ’ayp, Gr.); Left, Ger. The fiuid we breathe; atmospheric air. This term was formerly applied to any aeriform body ; but is now usually restricted to the gaseous matter constituting the atmosphere of our globe. Among the old chemists, al'kaline air was gaseous ammonia, dephlogis'ticated or em- fyr'eal air, oxygen; fixed air, carbonic acid; ixflamm'able air, hydrogen; heav'y I. A., bicarburetted hydrogen (‘ olefiant gas’) ; MEPnix'ic, xi'trous, or phlogis'ticated air, nitrogen; vi'tal air, oxygen ; &c. Atmospheric Air (or simply—the Air). The gaseous, respirable matter surrounding the earth, and in which we live. Comp. Atmospheric air consists essentially of nitrogen and oxygen, with very small quan- tities of carbonic acid and aqueous vapour. Among its accidental and variable constitu- ents or contaminations are—miasmata (from marshes, &c.); sulphuretted hydrogen (near sul- phureous springs, sewers, &c.); hydrochloric acid II.—Ordinary t Prout and Henry and ozone (on the sea coast, particularly in dry weather) ; indefinable organic combinations (as the matter of infection, &c.); carburetted hydrogen, sulphurous acid, sulphuric acid, and ammonia (large towns where coal and gas are burnt, and their vicinity); and nitric acid and nitrate of ammonia (during thunder storms). To these may be added the finely divided car- bonaceous matter of soot (popularly termed ‘ blacks’), Avhich poisons and darkens the atmo- sphere of London. Of the above substances, the majority are found in extremely minute quantities, whilst the presence of some of them is only recognised by their physiological effects. The oxygen and nitrogen in the atmosphere are in a state of mere admixture, and not of chemical combination; yet the proportions they bear to each other are extremely uni- form, and apparently uninffuenced by change of temperature, weather, season, wind, situation, or altitude, or even by the salubrity of the air. This is true of the air of parts of the world the most remote from each other, and collected both at the surface of the earth and in the most elevated positions yet reached by man. The quantity of carbonic acid in the atmo- sphere is subject to slight variations, and appears to be infiuenced by season and vegeta- tion. It was found by Saussure in air col- lected at an elevation of 16,000 feet; and, subsequently, by others, in the air at still greater elevations. In land air the average proportion is about volume; and, probably, never exceeds toos^^* search for carbonic acid in sea air, in situations very remote from land, has occasionally failed. The proportion of aqueous vapour in the at- mosphere is very variable. It is greatest during hot weather and with southerly and westerly winds. In England the quantity fluctuates between 1 and 1*5^. The following tables (and Note) exhibit the composition of atmospheric air according to the most recent and reliable authorities:— I.—Pure air, deprived of Water and Carbonic acid.—(Dumas and Boussingault.) By volume. By weight. Nitrogen . . . 79‘iy .... 77* Oxygen 1 . . . 20.81 ... .23* 100- 100- ic air. Saussure. Henry. Nitrogen Oxygen . Aqueous vapour Carbonic acid . Ammonia By volume. By weight. By volume. Assumed pressure in inches of mercury. 77-50 , 75-55 23-36 21- 23-32 1-42 . 1-03 r 3-7 to 6-2 S •44 •08 •10 i 10,000 / •02 {traces.- —Liebig ) 100- 100- 30- ’ Tlie constancy of the proportion of oxygen in atmospheric air is shewn by tlie analysis of distinguished chemists during a period of more than half a century. Thus, the air of Paris was found to contain 21 006% of oxygen,in 1805 (.VI. Gay-Lussac), and again in 1822 (M. Despretz); and 20 93%, in 1851 (Regnault). The air of London, analysed in 1811, gave 20 8% (A. S. Taylor and G. 0. Rees); that of Chiswick, in 1854, 21 003% .(Cooley); each by volume.