705 GOLD. I I are its rich yellow colour, its ductility, mal- leability, insolubility in all menstrua except ‘aqua regia’ (nitro-hydrochloric acid) and I aqueous chlorine, and its very slight affinity II for oxygen. It melts at a bright red heat r! (2016° Fahr.,—Daniell), and the fused metal 1 has a brilliant green colour. It forms com- pounds with chlorine, iodine, oxygen, sulphur, &c. Sp. gr. of NATIVE aoLD 13*3 to 17'7; of PUKE GOLD, ,19'3 (average); its greatest : density is 19'5. I Tests. Metallic gold is characterised by its yellow colour, insolubility in nitric^ acid, and I its ready solubility in aqua regia, forming a I rich yellow or amber-coloured liquid, which I stains the skin purple. Solutions of gold ex- hibit the following reactionsProtosul- phate of iron gives a hrbwn precipitate, which acquires a metallic lustre when rubbed;— ' 2. Protochloride of tin (preferably containing I a little perchloride) gives a violet, purple, or I blackish precipitate, insoluble in hydrochloric j acid;—3. Sulphuretted hydrogen and hydro- ' sulphuret of ammonia give a black precipitate, I insoluble m. simple acids;—4*. Ammonia gives I a reddish-yellow precipitate (‘ fulminating gold’) with tolerably concentrated solutions, either at once or on boiling the liquid;—5. Liquor : of potassa gives a reddish-yellow precipitate I with neutral solutions of gold, insoluble in I excess. I Estim. 1. In the ‘ dry way — j The quantity of gold in an alloy is usually i estimated by ‘ assaying ’ the sample. Before i proceeding to the assay, it is necessary to j form some estimate of the quantity of other I metals (copper or silver, or both) in the speci- i men to be examined, in order to employ the j proper proportion of lead in the ‘ cupellation.’ i The experienced assayer commonly does this I by the ‘ assay of the touch,’ \ and, in certain j cases, by a rough preliminary assay. The quantity of lead employed may be about 16 I times the weight of the copper present in the j sample, and when the alloy contains silver an 1 additional allowance of lead, equal to j’gth of j its weight, is made on that account. When ' no silver is present, or it is riot required to be 1 estimated, a much larger proportion of lead I may be employed. The weight taken for the j assay Q assay pound’) is usually 12 or 6 grs. i The alloy and dose of lead being accurately I weighed and separately wrapped in small ; pieces of paper, the assay may he at once ' proceeded with. i ^ a. Cupellation. This operation, the most important of the whole, has been already de- ' scribed.2 Unlike silver, gold will bear the highest heat of the furnace without ‘ vegetat- ing,’ ‘fuming,’ or being absorbed by the cupel. The loss of weight gives the amount of COPPER in the alloy. Quartation. The cupelled sample is fused with three times its weight of pure ^ See page 2S9. * See page 238. silver (called the ‘ witness ’), by which the gold is reduced to one fourth of the mass, or less, and in this state may be easily removed. y. Parting. The alloy, after quartation, is hammered or rolled out into a thin strip or leaf, curled into a spiral form, and boiled for a quarter of an hour, in a small flask, with about 2§ to 3 oz. of nitric acid (sp. gr. 1’3) ; and the fluid being poured off, it is again boiled in a similar manner with 1^ to 2 oz. more of nitric acid (sp. gr. 1-2), after which the gold is carefully collected, washed in pure water, and dried. When the operation of ‘ parting ’ is skilfully conducted, and the acid not too strong, the metal preserves its spiral form; otherwise, it falls into the state of flakes or powder. The second boiling or digestion is technically termed the ‘reprise’ The loss of weight by ‘ parting,’ after deducting that of the ‘ witness,’ corresponds to the quantity of SILVER originally in the specimen. h. Annealing. This consists in putting the pure gold obtained by the last process into a small porous crucible or cupel, and heating it to redness in the muffle. f. Weighing. This must be done with the utmost accuracy. The weight, in grains troy, doubled or quadrupled, as the case may be, gives the number of carats fine of the alloy examined, without calculation. According to the ‘ old French method ’ of assaying gold, the following quantities are taken:—For the assay pound, 12 grs.; fine silver, 30 grs.; lead, 108 grs. These having been cupelled together,- the (perfect) button is rolled into a leaf (If X 5 inches), twisted on a quill, and submitted to parting with 2f oz. and If oz. of nitric acid, sp. gr. 1'16 (20° Baume). The remainder of the process is similar to that above described. Two assays are made in the same manner, with a third on pure gold or gold of a known fineness ; and no conclusion is drawn, unless the assay of the latter comes out accurately, and that of the first two correspond to each other. For ALLOYS CONTAINING PLATINUM, which usually consist of copper, silver, platinum, and gold, the method of assaying is as follows:— The alloy is ‘ cupelled ’ in the usual way, the loss of weight expresses the amount of COPPER; and the button, made into a riband and treated with sulphuric acid, indicates, by the portion dissolved, that also of the silver present. By submitting the residuum to quartation, the platinum becomes soluble in nitric acid. The loss after digestion in this menstruum expresses the weight of that metal, and the weight of the portion now remaining is that of the pure gold. Gold containing palladium may be assayed in the same manner. 2. In the‘WET WAY’:— The richness in gold of any substance, whether liquid or solid, when the quantity is small (and indeed in all other cases), is most simply and economically performed by the 45