RAZORS—RED DYE. 1164 lific and destructive species of the Rodentia. It was introduced to these islands from Asia; and has since spread over the whole country, and multiplied at the expense of the black rat {Mils RaUus—Linn.), which is the old Rritish species of this animal, until its inroads on our granaries, our stores, and dwelling- houses, have increased to such an extent, that its extirpation has become a matter of serious, if not of national, importance. For the destruction of these noxious animals two methods are adopted:— ]. Trapping. To render the bait more attractive, it is commonly sprinkled with a little of one of the rat-scents noticed below. The trap is also occasionally so treated. 2. Poisoning. The following are reputed the most effective mixtures for tliis purpose:— AESEJfiCAL Paste. From oatmeal or wheaten I flour, 3 lb. ; powdered indigo, ^ oz.; finely pow- dered white arsenic, i lb. ; oil of aniseed, ^ dr.; mix, add of melted suet, lb.; and heat the whole into a paste. A similar compound has the sanction of the French Government. Aesexical Powdee. From oatmeal, 1 lb.; moist sugar, 5 lb.; white arsenic and rotten cheese, of each, 1 oz.; rat-scent, a few drops. jMillees’ Rat Powdee. From fresh oat- j meal, 1 lb.; nux vomica (in very fine powder),! 1 oz.; rat-scent, 5 or 6 drops. This is highly j spoken of by those who have used it. | Mineeal Rat-poison. From carbonate of \ baryta, ^ lb.; sugar and oatmeal, of each, 6 oz.; , oils of aniseed and caraway, of each, a few j drops. I PniLANTEOPE Muophobon. A French' preparation, which, according to Mr. Beasley, consists of tartar emetic, 1 part, with fari- naceous matter, 4 parts, and some other (un- important) ingredients. PnosPHOE Paste. See 1059. Among ‘ eat-scents ’ the following are said to be the most attractive:— a. Powdered cantharides steeped in French brandy. For traps. It is said that rats are so fond of this, that if a little be rubbed about the hands they may be handled with im- punity. b. From powdered asafcetida, 8 gr.; oil of \ rhodium, 2 dr.; oil of aniseed, 1 dr.; oil of i lavender, ^ dr.; mix by agitation. | c. From oil of aniseed, ^ oz.; tincture of ^ asafcetida, oz. j d. From oil of aniseed, ^ oz. ; nitrous acid, 2 to 3 drops; musk (triturated with a little powdered sugar), 1 gr. EA'ZOPvS. See Papee, Paste, and Shit- | TNG. j EEA'GENTS. See Tests. ! EEAL'GAE. This valuable red pigment is I the bisulphuret of arsenic. It is found native i in some volcanic districts; but that of com- j merce is prepared by distilling {in an earthen | retort) arsenical pyrites, or a mixture of sul-! phur and arsenic, of orpiraent and sulphur, or I of arsenious acid, sulphur, and charcoal, in the ' proper proportions. See Bisfephueet op Aesenic {page 213). EECTIFICA'TIOir. A second distillation of a fluid, for the purpose of rendering it purer. EED. A term denoting a bright colour, resembling blood. Red is a simple or primary colour, but of several difierent shades or hues, as scarlet, crimson, vermilion, orange-red, &o. ' An'iline Eed. Syn. Rosanilijje. This ar- I tificial base is prepared by the action of li- \ chloride of tin, mercurial salts, arsenic acid, and many other oxidizing agents, upon aniline. The aniline reds of commerce, now so largely used for dyeing, are saline compounds, more or less pure, of rosaniline, with 1 equiv. of acid. These compounds are known under the names of ‘MAGENTA,^ ‘ FUCIISIXE,’ ‘ EOSEINE,’ ‘ AZA- LEINE,’ &c. In England the aniline red com- monly employed is the acetate of eosamline, which has been prepared by Mr. Nicholson in splendid crystals of very considerable dimen- sions. In France the chloeide of eosani- LINE is chiefly employed. The free base presents itself in colourless crystalline plate.s but its compounds with 1 Cvquiv. of acid have, when dry, a beautiful green colour, with golden lustre, and furnish with water an intenselj coloured red solution. See Pueple (Aniline) and Red Dye. EED DYE. The substances principally em- ployed for dyeing reds are cochineal, lac-dye, and madder, which, under proper treatment, yield permanent colours of considerable bril- liancy, the first and third more particularly so. Extremely beautiful but fugitive colour^ are also obtained from Brazil ivood, safflower, archil, and some other substances. For purple-: reds or crimsons (magenta, ffchsine, &c.) on silk or wool, the aniline reds (salts of ros aniline) are now extensively used. The mode of applying them is noticed under Pdepli Dye. Silk is usually dyed of a permanent red or scarlet with cochineal, safflower, 01 lac-dye; wool, with cochineal and, still raon frequently, with madder; and cotton, witl madder (chiefly), Brazil wood, &c. The lead ing properties of these substances are givei under their respective names, and the method: of employing them are generally referred t< in the articles Dyeing, Moedants, &c., and therefore, need not be repeated here. Tli- following may, however, be useful to th reader:— 1. First give the * goods’ a mordant of alun^ or of alum-and-tartar, rinse, dry, and bo' them in a bath of madder. If acetate of iro be used instead of alum, the colour will t fliil PFEPLE, and by combining the two, as moi, ■ ^ dants, any intermediate shade may be pre •jj duced. ' 2. The yarn or cloth is put into a very wea alkaline bath at the boiling temperature, the washed, dried, and ‘galled’ (or, when tl calico is to be printed, for this bath :nay 1 substituted one of cow'-dung, subsequent e' ,.sll