717 .GUANO. 1 h. 25'gi*. of the guano are next weigTied, I and after being slightly moistened with a little dilute hydrochloric acid, are thoroughly I dried by the heat of boiling water ; the dried I sample is then mixed in a warm unglazed I porcelain mortar with 10 times its weight of I a mixture of 2 parts of quicklime toG part of I hydrate of .soda (both <quite dry). This mix- il ture is introduced into a combustion tube of 1 hard Bohemian glass, about 16 or 18 inches ' long, and | of an inch in diameter. (See engr.') \ The mortar is rubbed out with a little of the soda-lime mixture, which is also introduced il into the tube with that already put there; a little plug of ignited asbestos is then loosely placed over the whole, and the tube is imme- diately connected with a tubular bulb-con- denser, containing moderately strong hydro- chloric acid, gi’eat care being taken that the joints are made air-tight, which may be deter- mined by the operator sucking a few bubbles out of the apparatus. If, after suction, the liquid remains at a higher level in the furthest bulb {b), it is a sign that the connection is sound. This being done, heat is applied to the combustion-tube by means of spirit-lamps; or, more conveniently, by means of the furnace now usually employed in organic analysis.' (See engr.) The tube is next gradually surrounded with red-hot charcoal, by shifting, by degrees, the screen (e), and adding more charcoal, so as to gradually expel the ammonia. The disen- gagement of gas should take place uninter- ruptedly, but not too rapidly, in order that the acid may not ascend into the combustion-tube and spoil the experiment. The non-conden- sable volatile matters which pass off furnish a key to the progress of the operation. The heat is at length increased to a full red. When gas ceases to be evolved, and the mixture in the tube has become quite white, the experi- ment is at an end. The point (a) of the com- bustion-tube is broken off, and the ammonia which remains in the tube is expelled by suck- ing gently at the extremity {b) of the?bulb- condenser. The latter is then disconnected with the apparatus, and emptied into a glass or porcelain capsule,-in order to be tested, as directed under 2, a. The quantity of am- monia, in grains, thus found, inultipled by 4, gives the whole quantity of ammonia per cent., both actual and potential, producible from the sample of guano examined. c. The quantity of ready formed ammonia (see 2, d) deducted from-the ' quantity last found (see 2, h) gives the quantity of latent or POTENTIAL AMMONIA that will be slowly developed by the decomposition of the guano in the soil, and become available for the food of plants. This is the most valuable product of this substance as a manure, and can only be obtained in quantity from well-preserved, dry guanoi - •, ' 3.—a. A third quantity of 100 gr. of the guano, selected as before, is triturated and digested for some time with 12 times its weight of hot distilled water, and the whole being thrown on a filter, the undissolved portion is I washed with a little warm distilled water ; the solution and ‘ washings’ are then mixed toge- ther, and acidulated with nitric acid; a solu- tion of pernitrate of iron is next added, and j afterwards, solution of ammonia, in excess; ' the liquid is next heated for a short time, and 1 the bulky reddish-brown precipitate is collected, j washed with hot water, dried, ignited, and I weighed. The weight, in grains, less the weight I of the peroxide of iron in the pernitrate con- ; sumed, gives the weight of phosphoric acid ! present in the soluble phosphates contained in j the sample. The pernitrate of iron is made j by direct solution in hot strong nitric acid, of I twice as much pure iron wire as there is phos- phoric acid suspected to be present in the liquid. A slight excess will not alter the re- sult. The number of grains of metallic iron used to form the solution, multiplied by 1*4286, gives the weight of the peroxide of iron which is to be deducted from the gross weight of the precipitate. b. The filtrate and ‘washings’ left from 3, a, are mixed, and treated with a little oxalate of ammonia to throw down any lime, and then carefully evaporated to dryness and ignited; the residuum of the ignition, when cold, after being carefully weighed, is treated with the smallest portion of water that will dissolve it; the solution is acidified with hydrochloric acid,