43 ACRIMONY—ACUPUNCTURE. AC'RIMONY. Syn. Acrimo'nia, L. ; Acri- MONIE, Acrete (acrete), Fr.; Scharee, Ger. In med. and chem., the quality or property of inflaming, irritating, corroding, dissolving, or destroying other bodies. Many diseases were referred by the old pathologists to the acrimony of the humours. AC'EOGENS. Syn. AcRoa'ENiE (-kroj'-) L.; Acrogenes, Fr. In botany, acotyledonous or cryptogamic plants in which stems and leaves, or an organisation approaching leaves, are dis- tinguishable j which have stomates or breathing pores on their surface, are propagated by spores, and increase by the growth of the stem at the point only. Ferns and club-mosses are examples of this class. Hence the adjective aero"genous. See Acotyledons. ACRO'LEINE (-le-in). [Eng., Fr.] When the fixed oils and fats are exposed to a heat sufficient to produce ebullition, acroleine, mixed with carburetted hydi’ogen, is given offi By passing the vapour through a series of well cooled bottles, partly filled with water, and by re-distilling the contents of the second and third bottles, this substance is obtained nearly pure. It is, however, best prepared by distilling glycerine with bisulphate of potassa, and purify- ing the product; but both the preparation and purification are attended with great difficulties. Prop., 8(c. Pure acroleine is a thin, colour- less, highly volatile liquid, lighter than water, and boiling at 126° Fahr. It is soluble in alcohol and ether, and sparingly so in water. Its vapour is irritating beyond description. It suffers decomposition by exposure to the air, contact with alkalies, &c. By long keep- ing it undergoes partial decomposition, disa- CRYLE being formed. Obs. Acroleine appears to be a product of the decomposition of the glycerine of the oil, for it cannot be obtained from the pure fatty acids. It has not been applied to any useful purpose. See Acrylic Acid. AC'ROSPIRE (-spire). Syn. Acrospi'ra, L.; Plumule, Fr.; Blattkeim, Ger. The shoot or sprout of a seed, when it begins to grow; the part of a germinating seed termed the plume, or plumula. The name was first applied by Grew to the plumula of barley. When the growth of a seed begins to be developed, the germ, from which the stem originates, shoots forth under the form of a delicate curved fibre, which gradually bursting its covering, makes its appearance at the end of the seed. The fibrils of the radicle first sprout forth from the tip of the grain; a white elevation appears, that soon divides into three or more radicles, which rapidly grow larger, and are succeeded by the plumula, which peeps forth at the same point, in the form of a pale green leaflet, which twisting thence beneath the husk to the other end of the seed, ultimately bursts its prison-house, and becomes a perfect leaf. See Germina- tion and Malting. ACRYL'AMINE (-kril'-). See Allylamine. ACRYLTC ACID (-kril'-). A substance formed by the long exposure of acroleine to the air, or by mixing it with oxide of silver. It somewhat resembles the acetic and propionic acids. AC'TINISM (-izm). Syn. Actinis'muS, L. ; Actinisme, Fr. ‘Ray-force.’ In optics and physics, a peculiar agency or principle asso- ciated with light and heat in the sun’s rays, and on which their chemical power depends. It was first observed by M. Berard, in 1812. It is neither luminous nor calorific, but capable of producing most important changes in material substances. It appears essential to germina- tion, and to the existence of healthy animal life. It is most prevalent in the sunlight of spring, when seeds principally germinate and buds spring forth. Yellow glass prevents the passage of the actinic principle. Whitish glass, to which a very slight greenish tint is imparted by oxide of copper, is hence found the best suited for green-houses and conser- vatories. German white glass is said to be objectionable. ACTIN'OGRAPH. An instrument for regis- tering the intensity of the chemical influence {actinism) of the sun’s rays. That contrived by Mr. Hunt consists essentially of a sheet of prepared photographic paper, a portion of the surface of which is successively exposed to the sun’s rays, by means of a metal cylinder, which revolves once in twenty-four hours. {Rep. Brit. Ass. 1845-6.) AC'TION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ac'tio, L.; Bewegung, Wirkung, Ger. The exertion or operation of an active power. In physiology, any faculty or function of the animal body was so called by the old writers. Morbid actions are those functional derangements which constitute disease. See Function. AC'TIVE. Syn. Acti'vus, L. ; Actif, Fr. ; Hitsig, Kraftig, Ger. In medicine, S(c., a term applied to substances, agents, diseases, &c., which act with energy or rapidity. ACTIV'ITY. Syn. Vis acti'va, L.; Acti- vite, Fr. The active faculty; the quality of being active. In physics, 8(c., it denotes the promptitude of the action of one agent, body, or substance, on another; as, the activity of a poison, or of the electric fiuid. In a similar manner, the sphere of activity represents the space within whj^h a body produces any sen- sible effect. ACTUAL. Syn. Actua'lis, L. ; Actuel, Fr. Real, effectual, absolute; as opposed to that which is merely virtual or potential. In surgery, a red-hot iron, or any other heated body, used as a cautery, is termed the actual CAu'tery ; whilst a caustic or escharotic so employed, is called the poten'tial cautery. ACUPUNCTURE. Syn. Acupunctura'tion; Acupunctu”ra, L. ; Acuponcture, Fr. In surgery, an operation which consists in the intro- duction of a needle, or needles, of pure gold, silver, or steel, into the affected part. In China, Japan, and India, this mode of treating certain