879 MANGANESE. situation; by the addition of some hops hailed in a little sweet wort; or, by adding a little moist sugar or treacle to induce a fresh fer- mentation. Heading!-. This is added to thin and vapid beer to make it bear a frothy head. The most innocent, pleasant, and effective addition of this sort, is a mixture of pure ammonio- citrate of iron and salt of tartar, about equal parts, in the proportion of only a few grains to a quart. The composition commonly used by the publicans for this purpose has already been noticed.^ Impeoying. This is the trade synonym of ‘ ADTJLTEEATION ’ and ‘ DOCTOEING.' Never- theless there are cases in which ‘ improvement" may be made without affecting the wholesome character of the liquor. Of this kind is the addition of hops, spices, &c., during the matu- ration of beer that exhibits a tendency to de- teriorate. For this purpose some persons cut a half quartern loaf into slices, and after toasting them very high, place them in a coarse linen bag along with ^ lb. of hops, and 2 oz. each of bruised ginger, cloves, and mustard seed, and suspend the bag by means of a string a few inches below the surface of the beer (a hogshead), which is then bunged close. The addition of a little ground capsicum in the same way is also a real improvement to beer, when judiciously made. Mustiness. To each hogshead, racked into clean casks, add 1 lb. of new hops boiled in a gallon of the liquor, along with V lb. of newly burnt charcoal (coarsely*br\iised, and the fine dust sifted off), and a 4-lb. loaf of bread cut into til in slices and toasted rather black; ‘ rouse up ^ well every day for a week, then stir in of moist sugar, 3 or 4 lb., and bung down for a fortnight. Hecoveeing. This is said of unsaleable beer when rendered saleable, by giving it ^ head ’ or removing its ‘ tarlness.’ Ripening. This term is applied to the regular maturation of beer. It is also used to express tlie means by which liquors already mature are rendered brisk, sparkling, or fit and agreeable for immediate use. In the language of the cellar, malt liquors are said to be ‘ up ’ when they are well charged with gaseous matter and bear a frothy head. These qualities depend on the undecomjiosed sugar undergoing fermentation, which, when active, can only be of comparatively short duration, and should, therefore, be repressed rather than excited in beers not required for immediate consumption. When we desire to give ^brisk- ness" to these liquors, whether in cask or bottle, it is only necessary to expose them for a few days to a slight elevation of tempe- rature, by removing them, for instance, to a wanner apartment. This is the plan success- fully adopted by bottlers. The addition of a small lump of ivhite sugar to each bottle of ale or beer, or a teaspoonful of moist sugar to each 1 See paeje 727- bottle of porter, just before corking it, will render it fit for drinking in a few days in ordinary weather, and in 2 or 3 days in the heat of summer. A raisin or a lump of sugar candy is often added to each bottle with a like intention. The Parisians bottle their beer one day, and sell it the next. For this purpose, in addition to the sugar as above, they add 2 or 3 drops of yeast. Such bottled liquor must, however, be drunk within a week, or else stored in a very cold place, as it will otherwise burst the bottles or blow out the corks. Ropiness. A little infusion of catechu or of oak bark, and some fresh hops, may be added to the beer, which in a fortnight should be rummaged well, and the next day ‘ fined^ down. SouENESS. Powdered chalk, carbonate of soda, salt of tartar, or pearlash, is commonly added by the publicans to the beer, until the acidity is nearly removed, when 4 or 5 lb. of moist sugar or foots per hogshead are ‘ rum- maged ’ in, together with sufficient water to disburse double the amount of the outlay and trouble. Such beer must be soon put on draught, as it is very apt to get flat by keep- ing. Oyster shells and egg shells are also frequently used by brewers for the same purpose. To remove the acidity of beer, on the small scale, a few grains of carbonate of soda per glass may be added just before drink- ing it. Stoeing. The situation of the beer-cellar should be such as to maintain its contents at a permanently uniform temperature, ranging between 44° and 50° Fahr., a condition which can only be ensured by choosing for its locality an underground apartment, or one in the centre of the basement portion of a large building. Vamping. Half fill casks with the old liquor, fill them up with some newly brewed, and bung close for 3 weeks or a month. MAN"GAi'TESE. Syn. Manganesium, L. A hard, brittle metal, discovered by Gahn in the black oxide of manganese of commerce. Prep. Reduce oxide of manganese (prepared by calcining the carbonate) to fine powder, make it into a paste with oil, adding about 1-lOth of its weight of calcined borax, place the mixture in a Hessian crucible lined with I charcoal, lute on the cover, and expose it to i the strongest heat of a smith’s forge for 2 1 hours; when cold, break the crucible and pre- serve the metallic button in naphtha. Obs. The product is probably a carbide of manganese, just as steel is a carbide of iron. Deville has lately prepared pure manganese by reducing the pure oxide by means of an insufficient quantity of sugar charcoal in a crucible made of caustic lime. Prop. As prepared by Deville, metallic manganese has a reddish lustre, like bismuth; it is very hard and brittle; when powdered, it decomposes water, even at the lowest tern-