APPENDIX. 1372 in a covered vessel; in 2 hours add cold dis- tilled water, 8 fl. oz., and in 2 hours more strain through calico. Infusion of Hop (Infusum Luptjli). From hops, ^ oz. ; 2 hours. Infusion of Kousso (Infusum Cusso). From Jcousso, in coa^^e powder, ^ oz.; boiling distilled water, 4 tl. oz.; 15 minutes, without straining. Infusion of Linseed (Infusum Lini). From Unseed, 160 gr.; fresh liquorice root, sliced, 60 gr.; 4 hours. Infusion of Matico (Infusum MATiaE). From matico, cut small, ^ oz.; | an hour. Infusion of Orange Peel (Infusum Au- RANTii). From hitter-orange peel, cut small, ^ oz.; 15 minutes. Infusion of Quassia (Infusum Quas- sia). From quassia, in chips, 60 gr., with cold water ; ^ an hour. Infusion of Phatany (Infusum Ivra- MEEiiE). From rhatany, bruised, | oz.; 1 liour. Infusion of Phubaeb (Infusum Ehei). From rhubarb, in thin slices, ^ oz.; 1 hour. Acid Infusion of Roses (Infusum RosiE ACIDUm). Add dilute sulphuric acid, 1 fl. dr., to boiling distilled water, 10 fl. oz., and infuse red-rose petals, \ oz,, in the mixture, for ^ an hour, then strain. Infusion of Senega (Infusum Senega-:). From senega, bruised, ^ oz,; 1 hour. Infusion of Senna (Infusum Senn.®:). From senna, ^ oz.; ginger, sliced, 30 gr. j 1 hour. Infusion of Seepentaet (Infusum See- PENTAEIJe). From serpent ary, i oz.; 2 hours. Infusion of Valerian (Infusum Vale- riana:). From valerian, bruised, 120 gr.; 1 hour. Infusion of Yellow Cinchona (Infusum Cinchona: flava:). From yellow-cinchona bark, in coarse powder, ^ oz.; 2 hours; filter through paper. Iodine—Iodum; Iodinium (Ph. L. & D.); lODiNEUM (Ph. E.). This is prepared from the IODINE OF COMMERCE (named in Appen- dix), by the Ph. D. process for ‘lodirium purum.’ (See page 786.) Ipecacuan —• Ipecacuanha. “ The root, dried; imported from Brazil. (See page 787.) Iron. This metal is placed in the Appendix among articles employed in the preparation of medicines, its form being “ annealed iron wire, binding wire.” The officinal compounds and preparations of iron are as follows:— Arseniate of Iron (Ferri Aesenias). Described in Mat. Med. as “ Arseniate of Iron, 3FeO, AsOs, partially oxidated.’’ It is pre- pared by dissolving arse^iiate of soda (dried at 300°), 4 oz., and acetate of soda, 3 oz., in boiling distilled water, 2 pints, and mixing the solution so formed with another made by dissolving sulphate of iron, 9 oz., in boiling distilled water, 3 pints; collecting the precipitate on a calico filter, washing until the washings cease to precipitate a dilute solution of chloride of barium; squeezing the washed precipitate be- tween strong linen, in a screw press, and drying it on porous bricks in a warm air-chamber, at a temperature not exceeding 100°. This is a new preparation, not being included in any other Pharmacopoeia. (See page 792.) Carbonate of Iron. See Saccharated Carbonate {below). Chloride of Iron. See Solution of Per- CHLORIDE of IeON. Citrate of Iron and Ammonia (Ferri et Ammonia citras; Ferri Ammonio-citras, Ph. L. & D.). Add solution of persulphate of iron, 8 fl. oz, to distilled water, 2 pints, and gradually pour this dilute solution into solu- tion of ammonia, 14 fl. oz. (or q. s.), stirring well for a few minutes; collect precipitate (hy- drated peroxide) on a calico filter, and wash until the filtrate ceases to become turbid with chloride of barium. Dissolve citric acid, in crystals, 5 oz., in distilled water, 2 pints, and digest the solution at a boiling heat on the oxide. Make the liquid neutral by means of solution of ammonia, evaporate it to the con- sistence of syrup, and dry it in thin layers on flat porcelain or glass plates, at a temperature not exceeding 140°. (See 790.) Citrate of Iron and Quinia (Ferri et Quinia Citras). Add solution of persulphate of iron, 3 fl. oz., to sulphate of iron, 1 oz., dis- solved in distilled water, 10 fl. oz.; mix well, and pour the mixture into solution of soda, 36 fl. oz., with constant stirring. Collect and wash precipitate, as in the preparation of citrate of iron and ammonia. Dissolve citric acid in crystals, 2^ oz., in distilled water, 20 fl. oz., and digest the solution with the washed pre- cipitate, stirring repeatedly until all is dis- solved. Dissolve sulphate of quinia, 380 gr., in distilled water, 8 fl. oz., acidulated with a little hydrochloric acid, and precipitate the sulphuric acid with solution of chloride of barium ; filter, and, living treated the filtrate with a slight excess of ammonia, collect the pre- cipitate on a paper filter, and wash with dis- tilled water until nitrate of silver dropped into the filtrate gives hut a very slight precipitate. Transfer the washed quinia to the capsule containing the citrate of iron, and digest until the alkaloid is dissolved. Lastly, evaporate and ‘ scale,’ as directed under citrate of iron AND AMMONIA {above). A new ofticinal pre- paration. Dose. 5 to 10 gr. (See page 798.) Iodide of Iron (Ferri Iodidum). Pre- pared by the Ph. D. process (3, page 793), with a threefold quantity of materials. The solution is to be boiled down in a polished iron dish, until a drop taken out on the end of an iron wire solidifies on cooling; the liquid is then jioured out on a porcelain dish to solidify. Nitrate of Iron. See Solution of Per- NITRATE OF IrON. Oxides of Iron. Three preparations come under this head:— 1. Magnetic Oxide of Iron (Ferri Oxi-