1365 APPENDIX. Bearberry Leaves—Uva Uesi. The dried leaves from indigenous plants of Arctostaphy- losUvaUrsi. (See 1338.) Beheria (Sulphate of)—Bebeeije Sulphas. This new officinal salt is prepared as follows:— Bebeeru bark, in coarse powder, 1 lb., is ex- hausted, by maceration and percolation, with 1 water, gall., acidulated with sulphuric acid, 4 fl. dr. The liquor, having been concentrated to the bulk of 1 pint, is next agitated with?w^/^ of lime (equivalent to f 0?;. slaked lime), care being taken that it is left distinctly acid; then allowed to rest 2 hours, and afterwards filtered through calico, the precipitate being washed with a little cold distilled water. The filtrate is treated with solution of ammonia until it ac- quires a faint ammoniacal odour, and the pre- cipitate which forms is collected on a cloth, washed with water, 10 fl. oz., squeezed gently with the hand, and dried on a vapour bath. When dry, this precipitate is pulverized and treated with successive portions of rectified spirit (about 16 fl. oz. altogether), until it is exhausted. To the spirituous, solution dis- tilled water, 4 fl. oz., is added, and the mixture is distilled so as to recover the principal por- tion of the spirit; to the residue dilute sul- phuric acid is added gradually, with constant .stirring, till the fluid has a slight acid reaction. This is now evaporated to dryness on a water bath, and the product is pulverized and treated with cold distilled water, 1 pint, added gradually, while the mixture is diligently stirred. The whole is then filtered through paper; the filtrate is evaporated to a syrupy consistence, spread in thin layers on porcelain i or glass plates, and dried at a heat not exceeding 140° Fahr. It must be preserved in stoppered bottles. Dose. 2 to 5 gr., as an antiperiodic. See Bebeeeine {page 289). Bebeeru Bark—Nectandea. “The hark” of Nectandra Rodicei, “ imported from British Guiana.” Beer Yeast—Ceeevisi.®: Feemektum. “ The ferment obtained in brewing beer.” Belladonna—Belladonna. “ The leaves, fresh and dried, and the fresh branches; gathered when the fruit has begun to form, from wild or cultivated plants in Britain:” (See page 300.) Belladonna Boot—Belladonnas Radix. “ The root, dried; imported from Germany.” (See page 300.) Benzoic Acid—Acidum Benzoicum. Pre- pared by the Ph. D. jirocess (1, b, page 303). If not quite white, it is to be pressed betw^eeii folds of filtering paper, and again sublimed. Benzoin—Benzoinum. See page 305. Bismuth. This metal is named in the Appen- dix. It is employed in the preparation of— White Bismuth (Bismuthum album; Bismuthi Niteas, Ph.L.; B. Subniteas, Ph. I).). The Ph. I). process is ordered. (See page 316.) Bitter-orange Peel—Aueantii Coetex. From Citrus Bigaradia. “ The outer part of the rind, dried; from the ripe fruit; imported from the south of Europe.” Bone Ash. Described in Appendix among articles employed in the preparation of medi- cines. (See jofliye 341.) Bone-Black. “Animal charcoal, ivory black.” Placed in the Appendix. (See pages 323 and 421—also Chaecoal, below.) Boracic Acid. In Appendix as an article employed in analysis. (See page 344.) Borax—Boeax ; Soda: Biboeas (Ph. D.). See page 344. Bread. Made with wheat flour. In Appendix. Bromine. Described in Appendix among articles employed in the preparation of medi- cines. “ It should be preserved under a layer of water, in a stoppered bottle.” (See page 366.) Broom Tops—Scopaeius. “ The tops, fresh and dried; from indigenous plants” of Saro- thamnus Scoparius. Buchu—Bucco. “ The dried leaves; im- ported from the Cape of Good Hope.” See Diosma {page 520). Calcium (Chloride of). In Appendix as an article used in the preparation of medicines. Ordered to be dried at a dull red heat, and kept in a well-closed bottle. (See page 382<) Calomel—Calomelas; Hydeaegyei Chlo- EiDUM (Ph. L.). Described in Mat. Med. as “ Subchloride of Mercury, HgoCl.” Pre- pared by the Ph. D. process. See Subchlo- EiDE OP Meecuey {Prep. 3, page 899). Calumbo—Calumba. From Cocculus pal- matus. “ The root, sliced transversely and dried; from Morzambique.” Camphor—Camphoea. This is the -refined camphor noticed on page 386. Canada Balsam—Teeebinthina Canaden- sis. From Abies balsamea. “ The turpentine ; obtained from the stem, by incision, in Canada.” {^QQpage 387.) Cantharides—Canthaeis. “ The beetle ” — Cantharis visicatoria—“ dried; collected in Russia, Sicily, and Hungary.” {^ee page 390.) V Capsicum—Capsicum. From Capsicum fast i- giatum. “ The ripe fruit, dried; imported from the coast of Guinea, and from the E. and W. Indies, and distinguished in commerce as Guinea pepper and pod pepper.” (See page 394.) Caraway—Caeui. The fruit, dried. (See page 395.) Cardamoms—Caedamomum. The Malabar cardamom, Elettaria Cardamomum. “ The seeds, contained in their capsules, Avhich are to be removed when the seeds are employed.” (See page 399.) Cascarilla—Cascaeilla. The bark of Croton Eluteria ; from the Bahamas. Cassia Pulp—Cassia. From Cassia Fistula. , “ The pulp of the pods ; imported from the E. Indies; or recently extracted from pods im- ported from the E. or W. Indies.” Castor—Castoeeum. “From the Hudson’s Bay Territory.” (See page 404.)