1 nurse fasting longer than 4 to 5 hours, except 3. To either of the above, add of coriander NORFOLK FLUID—NURSING. 915 The Latin genitive or possessive of the above compounds in— -as is -atis -is -itis -icum -ici -osum 99 -osi -idum 99 -idi -etum -eti ; -ium 99 -ii 1 -um 99 -i I -ia I 1 -a \ 99 1 -na J j Ev. Acetas (acetate), acetatis of acetate); livsenis, arsenitis; citricum, citrici; arse- [aiosum, arseniosi; iodidum, iodidi; sulphu- jretum, sutphuretij sodium, sodii; platinum, \)latini; morphia, morphia; quina, quince; larcotina, narcotints. The genitives of com- non names vary with the termination. Most »f those ending in -a make -ts, and most of ,hose in -us and -um make -i; but there are nany exceptions, among which cornu (a horn) ind spiritus (spirit), which are unaltered in he genitive singular, may be mentioned as xamples. NORFOLK FLUID. Prep. Take of linseed il, 3 pints; black resin, ^ lb. ; yellow wax, .2 oz.; melt, and add, of neaVs-foot oil, 1 [uart; oil of turpentine, 1 pint. Used to pre- }erv6 and soften leather. j NOR'IUM. An unexamined metal, the oxide i»f which, according to Svanberg, exists in [ertain varieties of zircon. I NOSTRUMS. See Patent Medicines, &c. ! NOVAR'GENT. Prep. From recently pre- 'ipitated chloride of silver by dissolving it in - solution of either hyposulphite of soda or of yanide of potassium. Used chiefly to restore •Id plated goods. The liquid is rubbed over he metal to be coated with a little prepared halk, and the part is afterwards polished off vith a piece of soft leather. A powder re- ently sold under the same name is formed by nixing the preceding article with chalk, and trying the mass. It is made into a paste with t little water, spirit of wine, or gin, before ipplying it. NOVAUR'UM. From a solution of neutral erchloride of gold, as the last. NOYAU. Syn. Cr^me de noyau. This 5 a pleasant nutty-tasted liqueur; but from he large proportion of prussic acid which it ontains, a small quantity only should be taken t a time. Prep. 1. Bitter almonds (bruised), 3 oz.; pirit (22 u. p.), 1 quart; sugar, 1 lb.; (dis- olved in) water, J pint; macerate for 10 days, requently shaking the vessel; then allow it 0 repose for a few days, and decant the clear •ortion. 2. As the last, but substituting apricot or each kernels (with the shells, bruised), for the Imonds. seed and ginger, of each, bruised, 1 dr.; mace and cinnamon, of each, \ dr. 4. (Wholesale.) To plain cordial, at 54 to 60 u. p., containing 3 lb. of sugar per gallon, add, gradually, essence of bitter almonds, q. s. to flavour. 5. (Creme ne noyau de Martinique.) Loaf sugar, 24 lb.; water, 2^ gaU.; dissolve, add, of proof spirit, 5 gall. ; orange-flower water, 3 pints; bitter almonds (bruised), 1 lb.; essence of lemons, 2 dr. ; as above. See Li- queurs. NUR'SING. Milk is the natural food of the mammalia during the earlier period of their existence. It contains all that is necessary for the nourishment of their bodies, and on it they thrive and grow. Its secretion only ac- tively commences at the time when it is re- quired for the sustenance of the offspring, and it either materially lessens in quantity, or wholly disappears, as soon as the necessity of its ex- istence has passed away, and the little being who depended on it has acquired sufficient age and strength to exist on cruder aliment. The nursing mother, when in a state of perfect health, and properly supplied with a suffi- ciency, without excess, of nutritious food, elaborates this secretion in the Attest condi- tion to ensure the health and vigour of her offspring. Her bosom is the fountain whence flows the beauty and stamina of the future adult, and whilst giving strength and life to another, she increases and prolongs her own. The milk of women varies with the food, health, age, &c., of the nurse. That produced from a mixed animal and vegetable diet, nei- ther acesces nor coagulates spontaneously, like cows’ milk; and when gently evaporated in an open vessel, “ the last drop continues thin, sweet, and bland.” Acids and rennet, how- ever, coagulate it readily, and so does the gas- tric juice of the infant, as shown by the con- dition in which it is often ejected by the latter. The milk of a woman who lives wholly on vegetable food acesces and coagulates with equal readiness and in a precisely similar man- ner to cows’ milk. The quality of the milk also varies with the progress of the digestion. Within the first hour or two after a meal it is thin and serous, and then gradually im- proves in richness and flavour, until at about the fourth or fifth hour it possesses these qualities in the highest degree. This, then, is the period at which the infant should be applied to the breast, which, according to the present habits of society, would be during the hour immediately preceding each meal, ex- cept the breakfast. After about the fifth or sixth hour the milk gradually loses its pecu- liar colour and odour, until towards the tenth or twelfth hour after eating food it becomes yellowish, bitter, and often nauseous; and in this condition is frequently refused by the in- fant. This points out the impropriety of a