4S0 CREASOTE—CROUP. is well divided, when the whole is suddenly thrown into a vessel containing a gallon or two of clean cold water ; lastly, the granulated cream is thrown on a muslin filter; and as much water as possible is shaken (gently) out of it; after which it is put up for use. Lemmon Cream. Pr(p. From cream, 1 pint; yolks of 3 eggs j powdered sugar, 6 oz.; the yellow rind oj 1 lemon (grated), with the juice ; mix, apply a gentle heat, and stir until cold. If desired white, the whites of the eggs should be used instead of the yolks. Or'ange Cream. Similar to lemon cream, but using oranges. Pista"chio Cream. From the kernels of pis- tachio nuts, as almond cream. Rasp'berry Cream. See Feijit Ceeam. Sat'urnine Cream. Syn. Ceem'or plum'bi ACETA'tis, L. Prep. (Dr. Kirkland.) Cream, 1 oz.; solution of diace I ate of lead, 1 dr.; mix. Cooling, sedative, and astringent; a useful application in certain cases to irritable ulcers, sore nipples, &c. It is poisonous. Scotch Sour Cream. Prep. (Gray.) Skimmed milk is put over night into a wooden tub, with a spigot at the bottom, and this tub is put into another filled with hot water; in the morning the small tub is taken out and the thin part of the milk {‘wigg’) drawn olf until the thick, sour cream begins to come. This process requires practice as to the heat of the water; when it succeeds, skimmed milk yields nearly one half of this cream, which is eaten with sugar as a delicacy; it is only distin- guishable from cream by its taste, and sells for double the price of fresh milk. Stone Cream. Syn. Ceeam blancmange. Prep. From isinglass, ^ oz., dissolved in hoiling water, a teacupful, adding cream, 1 pint, and sugar, 4 oz.; stirred until nearly cold, and then poured over fruit or preserves, placed on the bottom of glass dishes. Tarax'acum Cream. Syn. Ceem'oe taeax'- ACI, L. Prep. (Dr. Collier.) From washed dandelion roots (sliced), sprinkled with spirit of juniper, and then pressed for their juice. Dose. A tablespoonful twice or thrice daily, as a stomachic and tonic, in dyspepsia, &c. Vanilla Cream. Prep. 1. Boil a stick of vanilla (grated), and isinglass, \ oz., in milk, 1 pint, until the latter is dissolved; strain, add sugar, 6 oz., and cream, 1 pint; stir till nearly cold, then pour it into moulds like blancmange. 2 Cream and strong isinglass jelly, of each, 1 pint; sugar, 6 oz.; essence of vanilla, ^ oz.; mix as before. Vel'vet Cream. Prep. As the last, but, in- stead of vanilla, flavour with the rind and juice of a lemon, and about a teacupful of white wine. Whipped' Cream. Prep. From the whites of 12 eggs; cream, 1 quart; pale sherry, ^ pint; essence of musk and ambergris, of each, 10 drops; essences of lemon and orange peel, of each, 3 or 4 drops; whisk to a froth, remove the latter on to a sieve. All the glasses with ! the cream, and then pile the froth on the top | of them. CRE'ASOTE. See Keeasote. CRE'ATINE. See Kreatine. CREATININE. See Keeatinine. CREME. [I’r.] Syn. Ceeam. This name is applied to several compound spirits and cordial liquors, especially by the French i liqueuristes, who pride themselves on the su- i perior quality and cream-like smoothness of > their manufactures. Like the cordials of the English, they are mostly dilute spirit, aroma- j tized, and sweetened. See Liqueurs. CRENTC ACID. A brown substance dis- | covered by Berzelius in certain mineral waters. It is a modification of humus, and is produced by the decay of vegetable matter. CRICK'ETS. These insects may be de- stroyed by putting Scotch snujf into their holes, or by placing some pieces of beetle wafers for them to eat. CROCON'IC ACID. One of the products of the action of potassium on carbonic oxide. When a solution of rhodizonate of potassa is boiled, it suffers decomposition, and the liquid i is found to contain oxalate of potassa, free potassa, and croconate of potassa; from the I last of which croconic acid is obtained. It is j yellow, crystallizable, and soluble in both water and alcohol. CRO'TON OIL. Syn. Oleum ceoto'nis (Ph. E.), O. TiGLii (Ph. L. & D.), L. The “oil expressed from the seeds of Croton tiglium (Ph. L.), or purging croton. This oil is a drastic purgative, and a powerful local irritant and rubefacient. Rubbed on the skin, it produces a pustular eruption, and frequently purges. In this way (diluted with thrice its. weight of olive oil) it is occasionally used as a j, counter-irritant. Bose (as a purge). 1 to 2 ' drops; in obstinate dbnstipation, lead colic, &c. CROUP. Syn. Cynan'che laryn"gea, C. suffoca'tiva, C. trachea'lis, L. An inflam- matory disease affecting the larynx and trachea. Symp. A permanently laborious and suf- focative breathing, accompanied by wheezing, cough, a peculiar shrillness of the voice, and more or less expectoration of purulent matter, which continually threatens suffocation. There are two varieties, acute croup and chronic croup. The latter is very rare. ^ Treat. Bleeding by leeches, or cupping, over the region of the trachea, should be immediately had recourse to, when the symp- toms are urgent; or violent local irritants, as pieces of lint dipped in strong acetic acid, or blisters, may be applied to the same part. In weakly subjects of irritable constitution, bleeding should be avoided. Dr. Larroque recommends repeated vomiting, in the croup of children; and M. Marotte and M. Boudet have adopted this plan with great success. The treatment consists in making the patient attacked with croup vomit a great number of times within the day, so as to detach the