FI(J—PILTRAttON. 637 I ipure state, by agitating or beating newly \irawn blood with a small bundle of twigs, Iwhen it attaches itself to the latter under the Iform of long, reddish filaments, which become [white when worked with the hands in a jjtream of cold water. It may also be pro- cured by washing the coagulum of blood, tied 'ap in a cloth, in cold water, until all the so- luble portions are removed. A small quantity 3f fat, which it still contains, may be removed by digesting it in elher. Prop., «Vc. Pure fibrine occurs as long, 'white, elastic filaments, which are tasteless, in- odorous, and insoluble in both hot and cold [water. Wetted with acetic acid, it forms, jifter a time, a transparent jelly, which is |jlovvly soluble in pure water. Very dilute solutions of the caustic alkalies dissolve it hompletely, and the new solution greatly re- sembles liquid albumen. Dried by a gentle [beat, it loses about 80g of water, t FIG. Syn. Ficus (Ph. L. E. & D.), Ca- 'BiCA, Cakic^ fructus, L. The figs of com- [luerce are the dried fruit of Ficus Carica, the hommon fig-tree. They are demulcent, emol- lient, laxative, and pectoral. Roasted and '^hailedfigs are occasionally employed as poul- ;ices to gumboils and other affections of the mouth. FIL'BERT. Syn. Filberd. The fruit of hhe cultivated hazel or nut-tree {Corylus Avel- lana). Filberts are distinguished from com- mon nuts by their lengthened figure and larger size. The best are imported from Spain. FILES. The manufacture of these articles iio not come within the limits of this work, jit may, however, be useful to mention that [PILES, FLOATS, and RASPS, which ‘ cut dull ^ [from age, dirt, or being much worn, are greatly improved by being kept wet, immersed in water for some hours, or even for a day or two. FIL'TER. Syn. Filtrum, L. An instru- ment or apparatus for straining or filtering liquids. See Filtration. ! FILTERING POWDERS. Prep. 1. Ful- jfer’s earth washed, dried without heat, and reduced to coarse powder. 2. From pipe clay or potter’s clay, as the ast. Both the above are used to filter and hleach OILS. 3. From clay or fuller's earth, 1 part; fine nliceovs sand, 2 parts; the two are separately washed, after which they are drained, and mixed together, and dried, as before. Used for GLUTINOUS OILS. 4. Granulated animal charcoal, sifted and Imnned from the dust. Used to filter and 'deach SYRUPS and vegetable solutions. Obs. Filtering powders are prepared of seve- 'al degrees of coarseness, and should be chosen with reference to the degree of fluidity of the iquid to be filtered through them. In no 3ase should they be reduced to fine powder, as lot only is the process of filtration thereby 'endered unnecessarily tedious, but in some cases (as when charcoal dust is mixed with glutinous vegetable solutions and syrups) the filtrate carries off a portion of the powder, which can afterwards be separated from it only with considerable ditficulty. See Charcoal, Filtration, Oil, &c. FILTRATION. Syn. Filtratio, L. The separation of liquids from substances mecha- nically suspended in them, by passing them through media having pores sufficiently fine to retain or keep back the solid matter. Filtration is one of the most common and use- ful of the chemico-mechanical operations of the arts, and its successful performance in an economical and expeditious manner is there- fore a matter of the highest importance in the laboratory, and, indeed, in almost every branch of human skill and industry in which liquids are employed. Simple in principle, and appa- rently easily performed, it is, nevertheless, one of those operations which require no less of care than of tact and experience to conduct it with certainty and success. The losses sus- tained in the laboratory, by defective manipu- lation in this particular, often exceed those arising from ignorance and accidents in every other department conducted in it. Filtration is usually resorted to for the pur- pose of freeing liquids from feculence, dirt, and other foreign matter, and for obtaining them in a clear or transparent state; but, in some cases, it has for its object the collection of the suspended substances, as precipitates, &c., and in others both these intentions are combined. The word * filtration’ is absolutely synonymous with * straining,’ but in the language of the laboratory it is usually applied to the opera- tion of rendering liquids transparent, or nearly so, by passing them through fine media, fil- tering paper, sand, and the like; whilst the term ‘ straining ’ is employed to designate the mere separation of the grosser portion, by means of coarse media, y?anne/, horse-hair cloth, &c., through which they flow with consider- able rapidity. Filtration is distinguished from ‘ clarification’ by its mere mechanical action, whereas the latter operates by depuration, or the subsidence of the suspended substances or faeces, arising from their gravity being natu- rally greater than the fluid wdth which they are mixed, or being rendered so by the appli- cation of heat, or by the addition of some foreign substance. The apparatus, vessels, or media, employed for filtration, are called ‘ filters,’ and are technically distinguished from ‘ strainers ' by the superior fineness of their pores. Both strainers and filters act on the same principles as the common sieve on powders; they all, in like manner, retain or hold back the coarser matter, and permit the liquid or smaller and more attenuated particles to pass through. The term ‘ medium ’ (plural ‘ media') is applied to the substance or substances through the pores of which the liquid perco- lates.