NITRO-HYDROCHLORIC AClD-^NOME^^CLATURE. 943 |or red vapours of hyponiteic acid, which jare freely absorbed by water. It is absorbed I by a solution of protosulpbate of iron, which lit turns of a deep brown or nearly black colour, which is removed by boiling. Sp. gr. 1039. I Phos'phide of Nitrogen. Syn. Phospham |(Gerhardt.) A snow-white powder, formed |by heating chloride of phosphorus which has been previously saturated with dry ammoniacal nas. (Rose.) I NITRO-HYDROCHLO'RIC ACID. Syn. Ni- |TEO*MTJEIATIC ACID; AQIJA EEGIA, ACIDIJM |NITRO-HYDEOCHLORICDM, A. NITRO-MURIATI- ;CUM, L.; Eau R£GALE,.Fr. Prep. 1. (Ph. |D. 1826.) Nitric acid, 1 part; hydrochloric \acid, 2 parts; (both by measure;) mix in a [refrigerated bottle, and keep the mixture in a (cold and dark place. Used to dissolve gold ,and platinum; and in medicine, in liver com- plaints, syphilis, the exanthemata, &c., either internally, in doses of 5 to 15 drops in water, or externally, as a foot- or knee-bath. It is also occasionally employed as a caustic. 2. (Aqda regia with sal ammoniac.) Nitric acid (sp. gr. 1*2), 16 fl. oz.; sal ammo- niac, 4 oz.; dissolve. Occasionally used by lyers; does not keep well. 3. (Dyer's aquaeortis.) Colourless nitric acid (sp. gr. 1’17), 10 lb. ; hydrochloric acid (sp. gr. 1*19), 1 lb.; mix. Used by dyers. NITRO-NAPH'THALIN. a substance formed, with other products, by the action of nitric acid on naphthalin. NITRO-PHENAS'IC ACID. Obtained by distilling a mixture of phenyl-alcohol and very dilute nitric acid. Superb, yellow, acicular crystals, forming beautiful yellow salts with the alkalies, and a red one with oxide of silver. NITRO-PHENE'SIC ACID. Prep. The por- tion of crude coal-oil which boils between 360*^ and 400° Fahr. is very carefully mixed in a large open vessel with a little more than an jequal weight of nitric acid of the sp. gr. 1*42, and, after the reaction is over, the resulting brownish-red substance is washed with water, boiled in a dilute solution of ammonia, and the liquid liltered whilst hot; the filtrate, on cool- ing, deposits crystals (impure niteo-phe- nesate of ammonia); these are purified by re-solution and recrystallization, after which the salt is dissolved in water, decomposed by dilute nitric acid, and the product crystallized from alcohol. Prop., 8fc. Odourless; bitter; sparingly soluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol; melts at about 220° Fahr.; its salts are either yellow or orange, are mostly soluble, and are very beautiful. NITRO-PHENI'SIC ACID. From the brown matter left on the filter in the last process, purified by solution and crystallization. It is identical with caebazotic or picric acid. NITRO-PRUS'SIDES. A series of salts dis- covered by Dr. Playfair, and obtained by the action of nitric acid on the ferrocyanides and terridcyanides. NITRO-SALICYL'AMIDE. Crystalline, yel- lowish-white needles, obtained by treating salicylamide with strong fuming nitric acid. NITRO-SALICYL'IC ACID. By acting on salicin with strongest nitric acid, with heat; or, by gently heating salicylic acid Avitli mode- rately strong nitric acid, washing the mass with water, dissolving it in alcohol, and crys- tallizing. Small golden-coloured crystals; with the alkalies it forms crystallizable nitro- salicylates. It is identical with anilic ACID (which see). NITRO-SULPHU'RIC ACID. Prep. From nitre, 1 part; dissolved in sulphuric acid, 9 parts. Used to separate the silver from the copper and solder of old plated goods. At about 200° Fahr. it readily dissolves the first, but searcely acts on copper, lead, or tin, unless diluted, or assisted by a much higher tem- perature. NITRO-TOLU'OL. From toluole, as nitro- BENZOL, which it closely resembles. A solid, crystallizable substance (binitro-toluol) is at the same time formed. NITRO-TOLUYL'IC ACID. From tuluylic acid, as nitro-benzoic acid. NI'TROUS ACID. Prep. 1. Deutoxide of nitrogen, 4 measures, and oxygen, 1 measure, perfectly dried, are mixed together and exposed to an extremely low temperature. An orange vapour is produced, which at 0° Fahr. con- denses into a blue liquid. Pure. 2. Concentrated nitric acid is poured on arsenious acid in lumps, and the whole gently warmed. Nitrous acid sufficiently pure for most purposes is evolved as an orange-red gas, ARSENIC ACID being left behind. Prop. The liquid acid is very volatile, boil- ing at 32° Fahr. with decomposition. Water converts it into nitric acid and detjtoxide OF NITROGEN. It forms the salts called ni- trites, which are obtained by various indi- rect methods. The so-called ‘ niteoijs acid’ of commerce is simply nitric acid impregnated with HYPONiTRic-AciD GAS. See Hyponiteic Acid. NI'TROUS GAS. See Deutoxide of Ni- trogen {above'). NI'TROUS OXIDE. See Protoxide of Nitrogen {above). NITRO-XY'LOL. From xylol, as nitro- BENZOL. NODE. Syn. Nodus, L. A hard tumour pro- ceeding from a bone, and caused by the swell- ing of its external membrane. The bones of the leg, forehead, and forearm, are those most commonly attacked. Nodes are generally ac- companied with considerable pain, and often with caries and loss of vitality. NOLI ME TANGERE. See Lupus. NOMENCLATURE^ (Chemical). The fol- lowing information will doubtless prove useful to many of our readers, as serving to explain terms which are necessarily of frequent occur- rence in this work:— Acids.—a. "Wlien a substance produces only