BATH. 278 and our large provincial towns; and a growing, though only a slowly-growing, disposition to avail themselves of the facilities thus afforded for bathing, has been evinced by the middle and labouring classes. It is hence to be hoped, that in a few years more, the taste and habits of the English public will have so much im- proved, as to no longer deserve the biting, but truthful sarcasms, conveyed in the above paragraph. Our recommendation of bathing applies chiefly to the warm hath and the tepid hath, which are alike adapted to the delicate and the robust, and to every condition of climate and season. Cold bathing, in this climate, is only suited to the most healthy and vigorous, and can only be safely practised during the warmer months of the year, and in a mass of Avater sufiicient to permit of the heat of the body being maintained by swimming or other active exercise. The plunge and shower haths are partial exceptions to these remarks; whilst sea-hathing, for the reasons given else- where, comes under another category. This last, “on account of its stimulative and pene- trating power, may be placed at the head of those means which regard the care of the skin; and it certainly supplies one of the first wants of the present generation, by opening the pores, and thereby re-invigorating the whole nervous system.” “Besides its great power in cases of disease, it may be employed by those who are perfectl}^ Avell, as the means most agreeable to nature for strengthening the body and preserving the health.” ^ Another important advantage Avhich sea-bathing has over bathing in fresh water is, that persons seldom take cold from indulging in it. We may add, that for bathing to produce its best effects, the water should be soft and pure, and good soap sparingly, but regularly, employed whenever the skin requires it. The medical and hygienic properties of haths are noticed helow, under their respective names:— Bath. In chemistry, Sfc., a vessel or appa- ratus containing some medium in which the vessel holding the substance to be heated is im- mersed, instead of being exposed to the direct action of the fire; by which means a limited and uniform temperature may be ensured. The highest temperature that can be gwen to any substance contained in a vessel placed in another of boiling water, is about 205 or 206'^ Fahr.; but by adding ^th part of common salt to the bath, a heat of fully 212° may be obtained. Baths of fusible metal, saturated solutions of salt, sand, and (on the large scale) steam, are also used for the same purpose. A bath of oil, may be safely heated to about 500° Fahr. Avithout suffering decom- position, and Avill be found an exceedingly appropriate and convenient source of heat in many processes. (See below.f ^ Ilufeland. ® For a TahU of Boilxny-fohxts, sce'EBPLUTiox= Bath. In medicine, the medium in Avhich ’ * the body, or a part of it, is bathed or im-; mersed, for some object beyond that of mere ^ i personal cleanliness or enjoyment; the compo-: i sition, use, or temperature of the medium,, i) being generally indicated by some epithet, as !: in the instances below. When only the last | is pointed out, pure water is, of course, in-! tended to be used. Baths are divided by medical writers into classes, and even minor subdivisions, in a manner Avhich is more ingenious than useful. They are said to be simple, when water or its vapour forms the bath ; and compound, AA'hen the water or vapour is ‘ medicated ^ by the addition of other substances (com'pound BATHS; bal'nea compos'ita, L.). The latter; class is also subdivided into theeapett'tic BATHS (mED'ICATED BATHS; BAL'NEA MEDI- ca'ta, b. theeapeu'tica, L.); and nuteit'ive BATHS (b. NTJTEIEN'TIA, B. NUTEI”TIA *, B. nijteito"eia‘*, L.). Thus, besides the ordi- nary water and vapour baths, the medical uses of which are hereafter noticed, Ave have wine'- BATHS, MILK'-BATHS, SOTJP'-BATHS, &C. (used to convey nourishment, or to sustain the body, as in occlusion of the oesophagus, certain dis- eases of the stomach, &c.); chlo''eine baths, suL'pHUEors B., meecu"eial b., &c. (used in skin diseases, syphilis, &c.); aeomat'ic and chalyb'eate baths (employed as tonics); and ACID BATHS (sometimes used to remove the effects of mercury). On the Continent a variety of substances are employed to medicate baths, AA^hich are seldom or never so used in this country. The quantity of any medicinal substance used to medicate a bath, for an adult, may be, in general, for each gallon of water employed, about the same as that which is used to form ^ a half-pint lotion of medium or rather weak strength. Thus; taking the quantity of bU < chloride of mercury to form the ‘ lotion ^ at 5 gr., and that of sulphuret of potassium at ^ dr., the quantity required for a bath of 30 to 40 gal. Avill be about dr. of the first, and about l-f oz. of the second of these substances. Much, hoAvever, depends on the nature of the "case, the length of the immersion, the periods of recurrence, and the intended number of repe- titions. In the case of A'^ery active remedies it will be safest and best to begin Avdth less than (say ^ to ^) the quantity thus indicated. Medicated baths are, in nearly all cases, taken Avarm or fully tepid. See Bath (in architecture and hygiene), and below. In the folloAvdng notices, which are given as examples, the quantity of the ingre- dients ordered, A\hen not otherwise indicated, I is that proper for an ordinary full-sized bath for an adult; viz., from 40 to 60 gal. Those which do not contain volatile substances may j be used more than once; and many of them several times by adding a small quantity of fresh ingredients to keep up their strength. Ac'id Bath (as'-\ Syn. B>.T/xT:rM AC'iDr^r