1287 TINCTURES (ODORIFEROUS)—TOBACCO. lin a well-closed vessel; or, 'preferably, by per- i eolation in a cylindrical glass vessel furnished Iwith a stopper, and terminating at the lower lend in a funnel, obstructed^with a little cotton. The powder being introduced over the cotton, Ipour on it enough ether to moisten it, put in ,the stopper, fix the tube into the neck of a bottle, and leave it for 48 hours; then, add, igradually, the remaining portion of the ether, and, lastly, enough water to displace the ether [absorbed. In this manner are prepared the \ethereal tinctures of aconite leaves, aenica 1 FLO WEES, BELLADONNA, HEMLOCK, FOXGLOVE, TOBACCO, PELLITOET, SOLANIJM, VALEEIAN, ■ STEAMONIIJM, &c., of the Paris Codex, j The ethereal tinctures of ambee, ambee- i GEis, asafcetida, canthaeides (acetic ether), iCASTOE, MUSK, ToLU, &c., are prepared by ! maceration only. TINCTURES (Odoriferous). These are pre- pared from odoriferous substances by the usual processes of digestion* or percolation. See Spieits {page 1231). TINCTURES from Recent Vegetables. See Vegetable Juices. TIN'DER (German). See Amadou. TISANE. [Fr.] Syn. Ptisan ; Ptisana, L. This form of medicine is much used in France. Tisanes may be readily prepared by slightly medicating barley, rice, or tamarind water, lemonade, &c. See Decoction, In- i FUSION, Julep, Ptisan, &c., and below. Tisane Antiscorbutique. An infusion of buckbean and the fresh roots of horseradish. Tisane Antivenerienne. Various compound decoctions of sarsaparilla are known by this name. (Seejwa^re 510.) Tisane Commune. A decoction of pearl- 1 barley and couch-grass, flavoured with liquorice I root. I Tisane Pectorale. An infusion of the roots \ oiliquorice Qx\di marsh-mallow, Canadian maiden- hair, and the flowers of the red poppy and coltsfoot, in a decoction of rice. Tisane Royale. From senna, fresh chervil, ! and sulphate of soda, of each, 4 dr.; aniseed land cinnamon, of each, 1 dr.; 1 lemon, sliced; I cold water. If pint; macerate for 24 hours, j stirring occasionally, then press and filter, i Aperient. Bose. A wine-glassful, or more, I repeated every half hour, until it operates. ! TIS'SUE (Blis'tering). See Vesicants. i TITANIC ACID. Syn. Peeoxide of ti- I TANIUM. This acid is found nearly pure in I the minerals eutile and anastase. It may I be obtained from rutile by fusing it, in pow- I der, along with twice its weight of carbonate I ofpotassa, powdering the resulting mass, and I dissolving it in dilute hydrofluoric acid; from this solution ‘ titano-fluoride of potassium' I soon begins to separate, and from a hot aqueous 1 solution of this compound snow-like ‘ titanate I of ammonia ’ may be precipitated by ammonia; ! this latter salt, when heated, gives ofi" ammonia, ' and yields pure titanic acid. I Prop. Very similar to those of silica; when pure, this acid forms a white powder; when freshly precipitated from solutions, it is soluble in acids, but heat decomposes the solu- tions ; ignition converts it into metatitanic ACID. TITA'NIUM. A rare metal, discovered by Klaproth in 1794, and examined by Wollaston in 1822. It is occasionally found at the bottom of the smelting furnaces of iron works, in combination with nitrogen and cyanogen, under the form of minute crystals, having a coppery lustre. Prep. Pure titanium, in a finely divided state, may be obtained by heating the double fluoride of titanium and potassium (see above) with potassium. Prop., S(c. Until recently, the mixed nitride and cyanide referred to above was supposed to be the pure metal; the compound is hard enough to scratch glass, and in the highest degree infusible. One of the most remarkable properties of metallic titanium is its strong affinity for nitrogen; when heated in the air, it simultaneously absorbs oxygen and nitrogen. With oxygen it forms an oxide or peotoxide, respecting which little is known; and a PEEOXIDE or BINOXIDE, which is TITANIC ACID (see above). With chlorine it forms at least two compounds. Bichloeide of ti- tanium, obtained by passing chlorine over a mixture of titanic acid and charcoal strongly heated, is a colourless, volatile liquid, closely resembling bichloride of tin. TOAST (Essence of). This is liquid burnt sugar or spirit colouring. Used to make ex- temporaneous toast-and-water (3 or 4 drops to the glass), and to flavour soups, gravies, &c. TOBAC'CO. Syn. Tabacum (Ph. L. E. & D.), L.; Tabac, Fr. The prepared leaf of Nico- tiana Tabacum (Linn.), or other species of the same genus. The name was given to this herb by the Spaniards, because it was first seen by them at Tabasco, or Tabaco, a province of Yucatan, in Mexico. The tobacco of commerce is chiefly obtained from Virginia, and other parts of the United States, but the finest varieties are imported from Havannah and from the East. The plants are gathered when mature, during hot dry weather, and are hung up in pairs, in sheds, to dry. When sufficiently dry, the leaves are separated from the stems, bound up in bundles, and these are formed into bales, or packed in hogsheads, for exportation. Prep. To impart to the dried leaves the characteristic odour and flavour of tobacco, and to render them agreeable to smokers and snuffers, it is necessary that they should undergo a certain preparation, or kind of fer- mentation. If a fresh green leaf of tobacco be crushed between the fingers, it emits merely the herbaceous smell common to most plants; but if it be. triturated in a mortar along with a very small quantity of quicklime or caustic alkali, it will immediately exhale the peculiar odour of manufactured tobacco.