10 ACCLIMATE—ACETAMIDE. in all extraordinary and unexpected situations of danger or calamity, those invaluable mental requisites—coolness, judgment, and determina- tion ; in short—peesence oe mind. Accident. In Fr. medicine, a symptom. (Ob- solete in this sense in England.) ACCirMATE, or Acclimatise. In botany and zoology, to inure a plant or animal to a climate to which it is not indigenous. When so inured it is said to he accli'mated {accli- mate, Fr.). In medicine, to habituate the body to a foreign climate, so that it may not he peculiarly liable to its endemic diseases; or to become so habituated. Thus, a person who has resided several years at New Orleans without an attack of yellow fever, or having had an attack has satisfactorily recovered, is said to be accli'matised. ACCOM'PANIMENTS.J In cookery and housekeeping, see Teimminqs. ACCOUCHEMENT (ak-koosh'.mon[i?]). [Fr.] In obstetrics, &fc., delivery; childbirth. ACCOUCHEUE _(-aer'). [Fr.] A surgeon who attends to midwifery. ACCOUCHEUSE (-ooze'). [Fr.] A midwife. ACCUMULA'TION. [Eng.,Fr.] Syn. AcciJ- MDLa'tio, L. In medicine, a term applied when the effects of the first dose of any sub- stance still continue when the second is admin- istered (ACCrMTJLATiON OE ACTION) ; or when several doses of insoluble substances remain inactive in the system imtil their energy is developed by chemical influence (accumula- tion OE doses). See Medicines, Poisons, &c. ACEPH'ALANS. Syn. Aceph'ala, Cuv. In malacology, a class of aquatic mollusca, having no apparent head, but a mouth between the folds of their mantle. Several of them, as the oyster, cockle, mussel, scallop, 8{c., are con- sumed for food. AC'EEATE (as'-). Syn. Ac'eeaS, L. See Aceeic acid. ACEEB'ITY. Syn. Aceeb'itas, L.; Acee- BITE, Fr.; Heebiokeit, Ger. In chemistry, 8fc., sourness, with bitterness and astringency, or harshness. See Cidee, Feuits, Wine, &c. ACEE'IC ACID. Syn. Ma'ple acid ; Aci- DUM ACEE'iCUM, L. ; ACIDE ACEEIQUE, Fr. An acid found by Scherer, in combina- tion with lime (aceeate oe lime), in the milky sap of a'cer campedtre (Linn.) or ‘ com- mon maple,^ and of the a. pseu'do-plat'anus (Linn.) or sycamore-tree. Prep. The sap or juice is kept in a warm situation for about a fortnight, that it may undergo fermentation ; it is then Altered, and a solution of acetate of lead added as long as a precipitate forms; this is collected on a Alter, and washed with very cold water ; a large quantity of boiling water is next carefully poured on it, and received in a glass vessel. Aceeate oe lead is deposited as the liquor cools, under the form of brilliant crystals; these are washed in cold water, dried, reduced to fine powder, and decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen, as directed under ‘absinthic acid.' The liquid, after filtration and gentle boiling, yields crystals of ACEEIC ACID by careful evaporation. Prop., S^c. It closely resembles ^ malic acid,' with which it is probably identical. (Gmelin.) Its salts are termed aceeates (see above). ACER'IDES (-e-dez). Plasters that do not contain wax. ACES'CENT. Syn. Aces'cens, L.j Aces- cent, Aigeelet, Fr.; Sauelich, Ger. In chemistry, S/'c., growing sour; slightly tart or acid; having a tendency to sourness, or to run into the acetic fermentation, as wine, beer, malt-wort, &c. Hence, aces'cence or ACEs'CENCY {acescen'tia, L.; acescense, aig- reur, Fr.; s'durlichkeit, Ger.), the tendency to become slightly acid, or the quality of being so. See Acetieication, Malt-liquoes, Wine, WOET, &c. ACE'TAL. [aee^(um)-aZ(cohol.)] Syn. Oxy- gen ETHEE*; Glycodie'thyline (-lin),Wurtz. An ethereal fluid discovered by Dobeireiner; and one of the products of the slow combustion of the vapour of alcohol by means of minutely divided platinum. Prep. (Liebig.) Pour alcohol, to the depth of one inch, into a taU glass jar, or wide- mouthed bottle, and suspend two or three watch-glasses, or shallow capsules, containing platinum-black (previously slightly moistened with water) to the depth of about two lines, close to the surface of the spirit; loosely cover the apparatus with a glass plate, and keep it in a warm situation for two or three weeks, or longer. Acetal, aldehyde, acetic acid, and ACETIC ethee will be formed. Next neutralise the liquor with chalk (or ‘carbonate of potassa'), and carefully distil, the first fourth only being collected. The product treated with powdered chloride of calcium, until the latter is no longer dissolved or moistened, decanted, and (very slowly) redis- tilled, yields pure acetal, as soon as the boiling point reaches 202° Fahr. Prop., ^c. Liquid, colourless, inflammable; sp. gr. 0*821 at 72° Fahr.; sp. gr. of vapour, 4*135; boils at 204° Fahr. (Liebig; 220°, Fownes; 221°, Ure); miscible with ether and with alcohol; soluble in 18 parts of water; un- changed in the air; decomposed by the stronger acids, and by alkalies on long contact; but strong boiling solution of potassa has, for some time, no action on it (Fownes); convertible by nitric acid and chromic acid, and by slow com- bustion with platinum-black, into acetic acid. It greatly resembles alcohol, except in having the odour of Hungary wines. It is a sub- acetate of ether (Ure); a compound of alde- hyde and oxide of ethyle (Liebig); glycole in which 2 equiv. of hydrogen are replaced by 2 equiv. of ethyle (Wurtz). See Acetic Acid. ACE'TAMIDE (-mid). iacet{vLVOi)-amide.'] A crystallisable substance soluble in water and in alcohol, obtained by treating pure acetic ether with ammonia. Alk*alies and acids re- convert it into ammonia and acetic acid. It