362 BREWING. is continued for 2 or 3 hours, or even longer. In England, 2| hours good boiling is gene- rally deemed sufficient for the purpose. For ‘mild beers’ the worts are seldom boiled so long; for ‘ strong keeping ales,’ sometimes a little longer. The ‘ boiling ’ is known to be completed when the liquor ‘clears,’ as it is called, and albuminous flocks sink to the bottom of the copper. The hops, strained from each wort, are returned into the copper with the following one. The quantity of ‘wort’ lost by evaporation during ‘ the boil’ varies from j'gth to ^th,' ac- cording to circumstances. 3. Cooling- :—The wort, under the common system, is ‘ run off’ from the copper into the ‘ hop-bach,’ through a strainer which keeps back the hops. It is then ‘pumped’ into large square shallow vessels called ‘coolers’ where it is freely exposed to a current of air to reduce its temperature as quickly as pos- sible, in order to avoid acidity or ‘ souring.’ In 6 or 7 hours, or sooner, the temperature should fall to about 60° Fahr. In warm wea- ther the depth of the liquor in the coolers should not exceed 3 or 4 inches; and in cold weather, not more than 5 or 6 inches. As soon as the temperature has fallen to about 60°, the liquor is ‘ tunned’ and ‘ yeasted.’ The loss by evaporation and condensation in the coolers, varies from 13 to 18 gal. per quarter. 4. Fermentation : —The cooled wort is next run into the fermenting tuns or vessels (gtle-ttjns). In small brewings these may be casks, with one of their heads removed; but under any form they must not be more than §ds fllled. The yeast, previously mixed with a little wort, and kept until the whole has begun to ferment (technically termed ‘ lobb’), is now added, and after agitation, the vessel is co- vered up, and kept so, until the fermentation is well established. By this time the tem- perature has risen from 9° to 15°. The quantity of yeast employed, and the temperature of the wort when it is added, differs in different breweries and for different kinds of beer. From \ to Ig of yeast, pre- ferably taken from a previous brewing of the same kind of beer, is the quantity usually employed. The Scotch brewers generally take only 1 gal. of yeast to fully 4 hhds. of wort. In England, the temperature at which the yeast is added, varies from 55° to 65° Fahr. In Scotland, the common temperature is 51° to 52°. In ‘cold weather,’ the heat may be 5° or 6° higher than in mild and warm weather, and a little more yeast may also be advan- tageously employed. In cold weather, ale is commonly tunned at 60°, porter at 64°, and weaker beers at 65° or 70° Fahr. In ‘ warm weather,’ strong beer should be 4° or 5°, and other beers 7° or 8° cooler than the ‘heats’ just mentioned. On the small scale, 1 to li pint of yeast may be used to every ‘ barrel’ of strong- beer wort, and f pint to every barrel of mild- i beer wort. | The commencement of the fermentation is I indicated by a line of small bubbles forming round the sides of the tun, and in a short i time extending over the whole surface. A ! ‘ crusty head ’ soon forms, and then a ‘ fine i rocky head,’ followed by a ‘ light frothy’ one. At length the ‘head’ assumes a yeasty appear- ance, the colour becomes yellowish-brown, and 1 a vinous odour is developed. As soon as this i last head begins to fall, the tun is skimmed ' every 2 or 3 hours until no more yeast is ^ formed. The beer is then put into casks, or ‘ cleansed’ as it is called. A minute attention to every stage of this process is necessary to secure a fine flavour, and a brilliant beverage. It may be regarded as a rule, that the lower the temperature, and the slower, more regular, and less interrupted the process of fermenta- tion, the better will be the quality of the brewing, and the less likely to change by age. A little more yeast is required in winter than in summer. When the fermentation becomes slack in the ^gyle-tun,’ a little more ‘lobb’ is generally added, and the whole is well ‘roused up.’ On the contrary, if the temperature rises considerably, or the fermentation becomes too brisk, the wort is cooled a little and skimmed, ' or at once ‘ cleansed.’ 5. Cleansing :—This consists in ‘ running* the beer from the gyle-tun into casks, or other vessels, set sloping, so that the yeast, as it forms, may work off the one side of the top, and fall into a vessel placed below to receive it. In small brewings, the beer is often at once transferred from the gyle-tun to the ‘ store- casks,’ which are sloped a little until the fer- mentation is over, when they are skimmed, i filled, and bunged. The process of cleansing is generally com- . menced as soon as the ‘ saccharine’ in the fer- rtJ menting wort falls to about 10 lb. per barrel, a ^ degree of attenuation which it usually reaches in about 48 hours. Some brewers add a little wheat-four or bean-flour (about 5 lb. per barrel) to the beer in the gyle-tun, shortly before cleansing, to quicken the discharge of yeast; but it is not clearly ascertained whether such a plan is advantageous, or the contrary. 6. Storing :—As soon as the fermentation is concluded, which generally takes from 6 to 8 days, or longer, the clear liquor is pumped into the store casks or vats, which are then closely bunged, and deposited in a cool cellar, if not already there, to mature. 7. Ripening :—After a period varying from one to twelve months, or longer, according to the nature of the brewing, and the condition of the cellar, the liquor will have become fine, and sufficiently mature for use. During this period the casks, &c., should be occasionally examined to see that there is no leakage, and ; to open the vent holes, should any oozings [ appear at the joints. As equable a temperature I as possible should be maintained in the cellar.