OILS (VOLATILE). 984 of roses, of which it is merely a variety. Prod. 5’, to Jg of 19. 2. (Attar of roses, Otto oe r. ; Oleum ROS^—Ph, E.) From t\iQ petals of Rosa centi- folia and Rosa sempervirens (damask and musk rose), principally the first, hy saturating the water, by returning it repeatedly on fresh flowers, and then exposing it to a low tem- perature. In the East Indies it is obtained hy stratifying gingilly seeds in alternate layers with rose petals, for some days, and repeating the arrangement with fresh roses till the seeds are saturated, when the oil is expressed and distilled along with water. In the neighbour- hood of Mecca the rose leaves are macerated in salt-and-water for 2 or 3 days, and then distilled, the water being received in separate receivers at different parts of the process. The water is afterwards exposed in porous earthenware vessels, tied over with linen, in trenches dug in the earth, and over which moistened straw is thrown, when in a short time the otto separates and floats on the surface. Prop., ^c. Colourless, or nearly so; odour, intense, penetrating, and diffusive, and in a concentrated state far from pleasant, hut when dilute very agreeable; taste, bland and sweet- ish ; when pure, it congeals at 80°, and does not re-melt until heated to fully 85° Fahr.; 1000 parts of alcohol of -806 dissolve only 7 parts of otto at 57° Fahr., and only 33 parts at 72°. Sp. gr. ’832 at 90°, to water I’OOO at 60° Fahr. Prod. 100 lb. of roses yield 2 to 3 dr. Pur. Otto of roses is frequently adulterated with the oils of rhodium, sandal-wood, and geranium, and with camphor; and occasionally with spermaceti, to give the spurious com- pound the usual crystalline appearance. The following are reliable tests:—1, Pure otto has a bland, sweet taste; if it is bitter, it contains oil of rhodium or sandal-wood; if it is pun- gent, or ^ bites’ the palate, it contains either oil of geranium or camphor, and probably both; if it imparts an unctuous sensation, it contains spermaceti.—2. Exposed for some hours to the fumes of a small quantity of iodine under a bell-glass in the cold, pure otto remains white, and continues so when exposed to the air; an adulterated sample, on the con- trary, becomes yellow or brown, and after- wards, on exposure to the air, continues to darken in colour, until it becomes of a deep brown, or even perfectly black, according to the quantity of foreign oil present. A single drop may he thus tested.—3. (Guibourt.) One or two drops of the suspected oil are put into a watch-glass; the same number of drops of concentrated sulphuric acid are added, and the two fluids are mixed with a glass-rod. All the oils are rendered more or less brown by this proceeding; hut, otto of roses retains the purity of its odour—oil of geranium acquires a strong and disagreeable odour, which is perfectly characteristic—the odour of the OIL OF RHODIUM is increased, and becomes somewhat unctuous, and, in general, it acquires an odour distinctly like that of cubehs. (‘ Journ. de Pharm.’) Oil of Rose'mary. Syn. Oleum anthos, 0. RORISMARINI, O. ROSMARINI (Ph. L. E. & D.), 0. RORISMARINI ESSENTiALE, L. From the flowering tops of Rosmarinus officinalis. In the Ph. L., English oil of rosemary (o. rosma- RiNi, Angliclm) is ordered. Colourless; strongly fragrant, but scarcely agreeable un- less compounded; carminative and stimulant. Boils at 365° Fahr. Sp. gr. ’910; recent, '897; rectified, '8887. Prod, f to Ig (nearly). Pur., Sfc. It is frequently adulterated with oil of turpentine. When pure, it dissolves in all proportions in spirit of '830. By age it deposits a crystalline stearoptene, and acquires a terehinthinate odour. It is chiefly used as a stimulant in liniments, hair oil, pomatums, &c. Oil of Rose'wort. Syn. Oil of rose-root ; Oleum rhodiol®, L. From the roots of Rhodiola rosea. Yellowish; odour resembles that of oil of rhodium, for which it is often sold, as well as the distilled water for rose water. 1| lb. yields about 1 dr. Oil of Rue. Syn. Oleum rutje (Ph. L. & E.), L. The “oil distilled from the flowering herb of Ruta graveolens, Linn.” (Ph. L.), or common rue. Pale yellow, turning brown by age, and depositing a brownish, resinous sedi- ment; congeals at about 40° Fahr.; acrid, bitter; odour that of the plant; stimulant, I antispasmodic, and emmenagogue. Sp. gr. ) •909 to -911. Prod, i to Ig (nearly). Ac- I cording to Raybaud, the recent dried seeds i yield fully four times as much oil as the flower- j ing herb. , ' Pur. Nearly always adulterated. When |]i pure—1. It forms a clear solution with rec- » tified spirit.—2. It does not form a camphor with gaseous hydrochloric acid.—3. Iodine i dissolves in it slowly, without any apparent reaction, beyond a darkening and a slight in- crease of viscidity.—4. It is unaffected hy a solution of chromate of potassa.—5. Nitric acid very slowly changes it into a greenish- yellow liquid balsam.—6. If it forms a reddish- brown solution with liquor of potassa and a still darker one with oil of vitriol, or if \t ful- minates with iodine, it is adulterated with the oil of some labiate plant.—7. It is more soluble in both rectified spirit and water than any of the oils used to adulterate it. Oil of Saffron. Syn. Oleum croci, L. From the pistils of Crocus sativus (saffron). Yellow; heavier than water; acrid, pungent, and narcotic; decomposed by exposure to light and age, with the formation of a white solid matter, which is lighter than water. Oil of Sage. Syn. Oleum salvi.®, L. From the herbaceous portion of Salvia offici- nalis, or common sage. Oil of San'dal-wood. Syn. Oleum santali, O. S. ALBi, L. From the wood of Santalnm album, or sandal-tree, and preferably from that