1358 ZINC. the ^hlue blaze’ commences, the volatilized metal is collected. The following method, by which several pounds of chemically ptjee zinc may be obtained in about ^ of an hour, will be found very useful: —Melt the zinc of commerce in a common crucible, and granulate it by throwing it into a tolerably deep vessel of water, taking care that the metal be very hot at the time; dry the metallic grains, and dispose them by layers in a Hessian crucible with g: of their weight of nitrate of potassa, using the precaution to place a slight excess at the top and at the bottom; cover the crucible, and secure the lid, then apply heat; after the vivid deflagration which occurs is over, remove the crucible from the fire, separate the dross with a tube, and, lastly, ran the zinc into an ingot mould. This zinc, tested in] Marsh’s apparatus during entire days, has never given any stain, and in solution the most sensitive reagents, such as hydro-sulphocyanic acid, have never indicated the least atom of iron. (‘ Journ. de Pharm.’) Prop. Zinc is a bluish-white metal, having the sp. gr. 6’8 to 7*2; tough (under some cir- cumstances, brittle) when cold, ductile and malleable at from 250° to 300° Fahr.; brittle and easily pulverized at 400°; fuses at 773° (Daniell); at a white heat it boils, and sub- limes unchanged in close vessels; heated to whiteness (941° Daniell) in contact with the air, it burns with a brilliant green light, and is converted into oxide (‘flowees of zinc’). It is very soluble in dilute sulphuric and hydrochloric acid, with the evolution of hydro- gen gas. It is little acted on by the air, even when moist. The salts of zinc are colourless. Pur. Commercial zinc is never pure. ^‘Its specific gravity is 6‘86. It is soluble in nitric acid. What is thrown down by ammonia is again dissolved when the same is added in excess.” (Ph. L.) “ It is almost entirely soluble in dilute sulphuric acid, forming a colourless solution.” (Ph. L. 1836.) When tested in a Marsh’s apparatus, it should yield no trace of arsenic. Tests. 1. The solutions of zinc give a gela- tinous white precipitate with the pure alkalies, ammonia, and carbonate of ammonia, which is completely redissolved by an excess of the pre- cipitant.—2. The carbonates of potassa and soda give a white precipitate of carbonate of zinc. All the above precipitates acquire a lemon-yellow colour when dried and heated, but again become white on cooling.—3. Hydro- sulphuret of ammonia gives, in neutral solu- tions, a white precipitate, insoluble in excess of the precipitant, or in solutions of potassa or ammonia, but freely soluble in the dilute mineral acids.—4. Sulphuretted hydrogen, in neutral and alkaline solutions, also gives a like luhite precipitate.—5. Ferrocyanide of potassium gives a gelatinous white or bluish- white precipitate. Estim., ^'c.—a. ICO gr. are digested in dilute hydrochloric acid in excess, and the in- soluble portion, which is chiefly caebon, ’ dried and weighed. b. The acidulous solution (see a) is next treated with a current of sulphuretted hydro- gen until it smells very strongly of that gas; the whole is then left for some time in a warm situation. The precipitate which subsides consists of the stjlphijeets of aesenic, cad- mium, COPPEE, LEAD, &c., if any of these metals were present in the sample. c. The filtrate from b, after being boiled, is treated with a little nitric acid, after which , it is again boiled, and, when cold, is precipi- tated with carbonate of baryta added in excess; the precipitate (sesquioxide of iron) is then collected, dried, ignited, and weighed, The weight, in grains, multiplied by *7. gives the per-centage of ieon in the sample examined. d. The filtrate from c is next precipitated with dilute sulphuric acid, and solution of carbonate of soda is added in excess to the filtered liquid; the whole is then boiled, after which the new precipitate is washed, dried, gently ignited for some time, and then cooled and weighed. The weight, in grains, multi- plied by *80247, gives the per-centage of pure ZINC in the sample. Uses, Sfc. Zinc is used to form galvanic plates; in fireworks, and in medicine. Of late years it has also been extensively used in the manufacture of vessels of capacity, tubing, sheets for roofing, and other things that re- quire lightness and durability. The ‘ AMALGAMATED ZINC,’ as it is Called, which is employed for voltaic batteries, is pre- pared as follows :—The plates, having been scoured with emery, are immersed for a few seconds in dilute sulphuric acid, then rinsed in clean soft water, and, after the loose water has drained from their surface, dipped into a strong solution of either nitrate or bichloride of mer- cury, or into equal parts of a mixture of saturated solutions of bichloride of mreury and acetate of lead; the plates are, lastly, dipped into water, and then rubbed with a soft cloth. Another and simpler method is to rub mercury over the plates while wet with dilute sulphuric acid. Ac'etate of Zinc. Syn. Zinci acetas, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. D.) Acetate of lead, 1 lb., is dissolved in distilled water, 2g pints, and the solution being placed in a cylindrical jar, sheet zinc, 4 oz., rolled into a coil, is immersed there- in ; after 24 hours, the liquid is decanted, evaporated to 15 oz., and solution of chlori- nated lime added drop by drop, until a reddish precipitate ceases to form ; the liquid is then Mtered, acidulated by the addition of a few drops of acetic acid, reduced by evaporation to 10 fl. oz., and set aside to crystallize; the crystals are dried on bibulous paper set on a porous brick, and then preserved in a well- stopped bottle. More crystals may_ be obtained from the mother-liquor. 2. Crystallized sulphate of zinc, 143 parts;