44 ADMIXTURE—ADVERTISEMENT. a substantive—) In medicine, that which assists in the cure or prevention of disease. In prescriptions, see Presceibing (Art of). ADMIXT'URE (-ure). Syn. Admis'tio, Ad- mix'tio , Admistu"ea, L. ; Mixtion, Me- XANGE, Fr. The state or act of mixing or blending; also the substances mingled. It is more usually applied to substances merely mechanically blended, than to chemical combi- nations. ADOLES'CENCE. [Eng., Fr.]. Syn. Adoles- Cen'tia, L. In physiology, the period between puberty and full development or maturity. See Youth, Puberty, &c. ADOPT'ER. Syn. Adapt'er*; Auopta'tor, L. In chemistry, a vessel or tube placed between two other vessels, (commonly a retort and receiv- er,) for the purpose of the more con- veniently uniting them, or of increas- ing the distance between them. (See Engr.) ADRAGAN'THINE (-thin). See Teagacan- THINE. ADUL'TERANT. The party who adulter- atesf; or the substance added for the purpose of adulteration. ADULTERA'TION. Syn. Adultera'tio, L. ; Adulteration, Falsieication, Fr.; Yerpal- SCHUNG, Ger. The fraudulent corruption or debasing of any substance or manufacture by the introduction of foreign, or cheaper materi- als, for the purpose of deception or greater gain. In proportion to the rapid strides made in every department of science and productive industry during the last half-century, has been the progress of the arts of sophistication and adulteration. The poor man’s necessities and the rich man’s luxuries—every article of food, medicine, and clothing, of trade, commerce, and manufactures, are now more or less mixed, adulterated, falsified, or drugged. The time has arrived when purity and wholesomeness can no longer be ensured by the payment of the fair price for a commodity, or by its pur- chase of a large and apparently respectable dealer. The revelations recently made on this subject in some of the medical journals, are sufficient to show the public, that the only safeguard against fraud and deception remains with themselves. There are laws in this coun- try to punish those who adulterate what they sell; but, except with respect to a few excise- able articles, the authorities are supine, and the laws almost useless. Even the recent Act of Parliament, from which so much was ex- pected, has, in practice, proved impotent to ar- rest the growth of this foul stain on the honour of the trading portion of our immense com- munity. The only remedy left to the public is to take no man’s word, but to examine for tberaselves what they buy. They must aban- don the struggle between quality and low prices, often falsely called cheapness, and at once cease dealing with those men w’ho sell them adulterated or inferior articles for pure or good ones. The knowledge necessary for such an examination is very easily acquired, and its application is not merely simple, but is capable of yielding a fund of rational amuse- ment and useful occupation, which is almost inexhaustible. Easy means of detecting the adulterations commonly met with in trade, as well as their commercial value, will be found explained, under each article of importance, noticed in this work. See Improving, &c. ADVER'TISEMENT (-tiz-). The nature of newspaper advertisements is too well known to require any description. Hist., SfC. The present system of adver- tising was not general in England before (the commencement of the eighteenth century. At the present time (1862,) the number of adver- tisements appearing in the English, Scotch, and Irish newspapers and periodicals, is at the rate of above two millions per annum. Mercan- tile men are well aware that, in order to do business, it is not enough to open a shop, and to stock it with merchandise. They must in- form the public of the nature of their business, and what they have to sell. In the middle of the seventeenth century, the shopkeepers of London made known their business viva voce. The masters, or their assistants, took a turn before their doors, crying out, “ what d’ye lack, sir? what d’ye lack, madam ?” and then ran over a list of the commodities they dealt in; and when they were tired of the task, it was assumed by tbeir apprentices j thus “ mak- ing the City a Babel of strange sounds.” This democratic era w^as succeeded by the age of ‘signs/ ornamented with all imaginable devices; —painting, gilding, boars’ heads, flying dra- gons, and flying swans, were conspicuous em- blems. As the capabilities of the printing- press became developed, shrewd men saw in it a chance to “ universalise their signboard,” and to bring the inventory of their stock-in-trade home to every man’s door. Hence arose the present era of advertising. Obs., &fc. If by means of advertisements “ men can sell articles that are valueless, and make fortunes by it; why should not those do as much, who have valuable articles to sell ? ” “Advertising and politeness are the main levers to get customers. Advertising will draw them, ability to execute their orders will satisfy them, and politeness will induce them to buy.” The choice of newspapers, journals, and pe- riodicals for the purposes of advertising, and the character of the advertisement, are of the first importance. The fewest words which will convey the advertiser’s ideas wdth business plainness, correctness, and decision, are the right ones. It is easy to place an advertise- ment where it will meet the ^yes of one hun- dred thousand persons in two or three days; or by using half a dozen or a dozen papers, to challenge the attention of half a million, or