1247 SUGAR-BOILING. i Sugar may be obtained from nearly all sweet vegetable substances, by a process essentially similar to that described above. I Al'um Sugar. Syn. Saccharum Alumi- NATUM, Alumen sacchaeinum, L. From \alum and white sugar, in fine powder, equal parts, formed into minute sugar-loaf shaped ilumps with mucilage of gum arabic made with irose water. Used to make astringent lotions and eye-waters. I Ba'rley Sugar. Syn. Sacchaetjm horde- j lATUM, Peniditim, Saccharhm penidihm, L. Prep. Take of saffron, 12 gr.; hot water, q. s.; infuse for 20 minutes, strain, and add of white sugar, 1 lb.; boil to a full ‘candy height^ or ;that state called ‘ cracky or ‘ crackled sugar,’ iwhen 2 or 3 drops of clear lemon juice or white vinegar must be added, and the pan removed •from the fire and set for a single minute in \^cold water, to prevent its burning; the sugar jmust be then at once poured out on an oiled \marble slab, and either cut into pieces or rolled into cylinders, and twisted in the usual |manner. 1 drop of oil of citron, orange, or \lemon, will fiavour a considerable quantity. I White barley sugar is made with a strained \iecoction of barley instead of water, or starch jis added to whiten it. j Beet-root Sugar. Syn. Saccharum bet^, jL. Sugar obtained from the white beet. (See \%bove). It is identical with cane sugar. I Diabetic Sugar. Grape sugar found in the urine of persons labouring under diabetes. In diabetes insipidus a substance having the gene- pal properties of a sugar, but destitute of a sweet taste, appears to be produced. Thenard.) Gelatine Sugar. See Glycocine. I Grape Sugar. Syn. Glucose, Fruit sugar ; I^ACCHARUM UY.E, S. FRUCTUS, L. This sub- utance is found in the juice of grapes and other j ruit, in the urine of diabetic patients, and in (:he liquid formed by acting on starch and jvoody fibre with dilute sulphuric acid. ! Prep. 1. From the juice of ripe grapes or in infusion of the ripe fruit (raisins), by satu- rating the acid with chalk, decanting the clear liquid, evaporating to a syrup, clarifying with \vhite of egg or bullock’s blood, and then care- 'ully evaporating to dryness; it may be burified for chemical purposes by solution ind crystallization in either water or boiling ilcohol. Like other sugar, it may be deco- oured by animal charcoal. I 2. From honey, by washing with cold alcohol, vhich dissolves the fluid syrup and leaves the iolid crystallizable portion. , 3. From starch. See Starch Sugar \helow'). Prop. It is less sweet and less soluble than bane sugar, requiring part of cold water |br its solution; instead of bold crystals, it forms granular warty masses, without distinct 1‘rystalline faces; it does not easily combine ivith either lime or oxide of lead; with heat, austic alkaline solutions turn it brown or black, but it dissolves in oil of vitriol without blackening, the reverse being the case with cane sugar; with chloride of sodium it forms a soluble salt, which yields large, regular, and beautiful crystals. Sp. gr. 1'400. Obs. Cane sugar is converted into grape sugar during the process of fermentation, and by the action of acids. See Sugar {page 1245) and Starch Sugar {below). Ma'ple Sugar. Syn. Saccharum aceeinum, j L. From the juice of the siigar maple. The average product from each tree is about 6 lb. per season. It is identical with Cane sugar. (See page 1245.) Milk Sugar. Syn. Sugar of milk. Lac- tin ; Saccharum LACTis (Ph. D.), L. Prep. Gently evaporate clarified whey until it crys- tallizes on cooling, and purify the crystals by digestion with animal charcoal and repeated crystallizations. Prop., &(c. White, translucent, very hard, cylindrical masses or four-sided prisms; solu- ble in about 6 parts of cold and in 2 parts of boiling water; it is unsusceptible of the vinous fermentation, except under the action of dilute acids, which convert it into grape sugar; in solution, it is converted into lactic or butyric acid by the action of caseine and albuminous matter. Milk contains about 5g of it. (Boussingault.) Obs. Sugar of milk is chiefly imported from Switzerland. In this country it is chiefly used as a vehicle for more active medicines, espe- cially among the homoeopathists. Starch Sugar. Syn. Potato sugar, F.ecula S. This is GRAPE SUGAR obtained by the action of diastase on starch, in the manner noticed under Gum (British), or by the action of dilute sulphuric acid on starch, or of the strong acid on lignin, or on substances con- taining it. Prep. 1. Potato starch, 100 parts; water, 400 parts; sulphuric acid, 6 parts ; mix, boil for 35 or 40 hours, adding water, to make up for evaporation; then saturate the acid with lime or chalk, decant or filter, and evaporate the clear liquor. Under pressure, the conversion is more rapid. Prod. 105g. 2. Shreds of linen or paper, 12 parts; strong sulphuric acid, 17 parts (Braconnot; 5 of acid, and 1 of water—Vogel); mix in the cold; in 24 hours dilute with water, and boil it for 10 hours; then neutralize with chalk, filter, evaporate to a syrup, and set the vessel aside to crystallize. Prod. 114g. Sawdust, glue, &c., also yield grape sugar by like treat- ment. See Lignin. SUGAR-BOILING. The art or business of the confectioner or sugar-baker; the candying of sugar. The stages are as follow: — Well clarified and perfectly transparent syrup is boiled until a ‘ skimmer’ dipped into it, and a portion ‘touched’ between the forefinger and thumb, on opening them, is drawn into a small thread, which crystallizes and breaks. This is called a ‘ weak candy height.’ If boiled again. 1