GLUTEN—GLYCERIN. 702 in a covered vessel by the heat of a water bath, cool, and add, gradually, of nitric acid (sp. gr. 1*335), 7 oz. ,* when cold put it into bottles. Very strong, and does not gelatinize. For the ‘ LIQUID glue’ sold in the shops, see Chinese CEMENT.^ Marine' Glue. Prep. 1. India rubber (cut small), 1 part; coal tar or mineral naphtha, 12 parts; digest in a covered vessel with heat and agitation, and when the solution is com- plete, add of powdered shell-lac, 20 parts; con- tinue the heat and stirring until perfect lique- faction has taken place, and pour the fused mass, whilst still hot, on slabs of polished metal or stone, so as to form thin sheets. For use, it is heated to its melting-point (248° to 250° Fahr.) in an iron vessel, and applied in the liquid state with a brush. Employed in ship-building, &c. 2. Caoutchouc, 15 to 20 gr.; chloroform, 2 fl. oz.; dissolve, and add of powdered mastic, ^ oz. It must be kept well-corked and in a cool place, to prevent loss by evaporation. Used for small, fine work. Portable Glue. Syn. Bank-note glue. Mouth g., Indian g. ; Colle a douche, Fr. Prep. From the best pale glue, 1 lb. / water, q. s.; dissolve in a double glue-pot or water bath, add of pale-brown sugar, ^ lb., continue the heat until the mixture is complete, and pour it into moulds; or pour it on a marble slab, and when cold, cut it into small pieces and dry them in the air. This glue is very useful to draughtsmen, architects, &c., as it dissolves almost immediately in warm water, fastens paper, &c., without the process of damping, and may be softened for many pur- poses with the tongue. When great strength is not required, 4 oz. more of sugar may be used. GLUTEN. Syn. Glutin. A peculiar sub- stance found in the grain of wheat. It is composed of true vegetable fibbin and a small quantity of gliadin. It is prepared by washing paste made of the flour of wheat or rye in successive waters until all starchy matter is removed. The paste may be conve- niently enclosed in a bag of fine linen during the washing.^ Prop., uses. Gluten is believed to be emi- nently nutritious. It is the presence of gluten in wheaten fiour that imparts to it its viscidity or tenacity, and confers upon it its peculiar excellence for the manufacture of macaeoni, VEBMICELLI, and similar pastes. The supe- riority of wheaten over other bread depends upon the greater tenacity of its dough, which during the fermentation is puffed up by the evolved carbonic acid, and retained in its vesi- cular texture so as to form a light loaf. Gluten is grayish coloured, and extensible whilst fresh and moist, like caoutchouc. It turns blue when mixed with guaiacum resin. Gluten Bread. Prep. 1. From wheat flour ^ '^e.tfage 409. * See fLOCK, fage 655. which has been deprived of about 2-3rds of its starch by washing it with water. 2. From gluten flour. Recommended in diabetes. Gluten Choc'olate. (Gentile’s.) A mixture of cocoa and gluten flour. As a nutritious and appropriate food in diabetes. Gluten Flour. Prep. 1. From the waste gluten of the starch works, washed, dried, and ground. 2. (Gentile’s.) From the last, mixed with about an equal weight of wheat flour. GLYC'ERIC ACID. A peculiar compound obtained by the action of nitric acid on glycerin. GLYC'ERIN. Syn. Gltceeine, Hydeated OXIDE OF GLYCEEYL; GlYCEEINUM, L. A sweet syrupy liquid formed during the ‘ sapo- nification’ of oils and fats. Prep. 1. Olive oil (or other suitable oil), protoxide of lead, and water, are heated toge- ther until an insoluble soap of lead (lead plastee) is formed. The glycerin remains in the aqueous liquid. As this crude solution of glycerin is produced in great quantities in the manufacture of lead plaster, the operative che- mist has only to purify it. This may be done as follows :— The water and washings from lead plaster are mixed together, filtered, and submitted to the action of a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen, to throw down the lead; the supernatant liquor is decanted from the precipitate, fil- tered, and evaporated to the consistence of a syrup in a water bath. To render it quite pure it is diluted with water, decoloured with a little animal charcoal, filtered, and again eva- porated to the consistence of a thin syrup, after which it is further evaporated in vacuo, or over sulphuric acid, until it acquires the sp. gr. 1*265. 2. (M. Bruere-Perrin.) From the sweet liquor of the stearine works (a product of the process of ‘lime-saponification’). The quan- tity of lime present in the sample is first deter- mined by means of oxalic acid, and the pro- portion of sulphuric acid necessary for its sa- turation at once calculated and added; the crude liquor is then concentrated in a tinned- copper vessel, evaporation being promoted by brisk agitation, until the sp. gr. sinks to 10° Baume; it is next cooled and filtered, and accurately neutralized (if it is required) with carbonate of potassa, after which it is evapo- rated to the sp. gr. 24° Baume; on cooling, it deposits gelatinous sulphate of potassa; the whole is now filtered, the deposit on the filter washed with a little very weak spirit and water, Ca^flltrate and * washings’ mixed toge- ther, and evaporated, as before, with agitation, until the sp. gr. 28° Baume, whilst hot (36° cold), is attained, when the whole is allowed to cool; the clear liquid is, lastly, decanted and filtered. In this state it has an amber colour, but may be rendered colourless and odourless by rediluting it with water, treating it with animal charcoal, filtering, and again evaporating to a proper consistence.