976 OILS (VOLATILE). portions in alcohol and ether. Exposed to the air, it greedily absorbs oxygen, and becomes converted into a mass of crystallized benzoic acid. The ‘purified oil of almonds^ does the same, only less rapidly. Oilof Almonds (Facti"tious). 5yn. EssE]srcE OP MiBBANE, Nitbobenzol. The preparation of this article on the small scale is explained under Nitbobenzol. It is now extensively prepared as a substitute for the oil of almonds obtained by distillation. The following is Mansfield’s process:—The apparatus consists of a large glass worm, the upper end of which is divided into two branches, gradually dilating so as to form two funnel-shaped tubes. Into on>e of these concentrated nitric acid is poured, and into the other benzol, which need not, for this purpose, be chemically pure. These bodies meet at the point of junction of the two tubes, and the rate of their flow is regulated by any appropriate means. Chemical reaction in- stantly takes place, and the new compound is cooled by its passage through the worm, which is refrigerated for the purpose. It has then only to be washed with water or a very weak solution of carbonate of soda for the process to be complete. The product has the sp. gr. 1*209, boils at 415° Eahr., has an intensely sweet taste, and an odour closely resembling, but not actually identical with, that of oil of bitter almonds. Unlike genuine oil of almonds or hydride of benzoyl, it is insoluble in water, and does not distil without suffering partial decomposition. It is chiefly used to scent soaps, and to adulterate the genuine oil. The benzol for this purpose is obtained from coal- tar. See Benzol and Nitbobenzol. Brand'y Oil. See Gbape Oil. Oil of Bu'chu. Syn. Oleum babosm^, 0. DioSMiE, L. From the leaves of Diosma cre- nata. Yellow; lighter than water; smells of the leaves. Oil of Caj'eput. Syn. Cajuputi oil, Kya- POOTiE o.; Oleum cajaputi (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. From the dried leaves of the Melaleuca Cajeputi. Colourless, when pure (that of commerce is usually green); odorous; aro- matic ; taste hot and penetrating. Its odour has been compared to a mixture of those of camphor and cardamoms. It boils at 343° Fahr. Sp. gr. *925 to *927. When rectified, about fths of the quantity passes over colour- less, and has the density *897 ; the remaining portion is green, and has the density *920 to *925. Its green colour is derived from chlo- ride of copper, the presence of which may be recognised by the red precipitate occasioned by agitating the oil with a solution of ferro- cyaiiide of potassium. (Guibourt.) From the East Indies. Pure oil of cajeput is slightly soluble in water; entirely and freely soluble in alcohol; dissolves iodine; and when dropped on water, rapidly diffuses itself over the surface, and soon completely evaporates. A spurious kind (factitious oil of cajeput), made of oil of rosemary, flavoured with camphor and the oils of peppermint and cardamoms, and coloured with verdigris, is occasionally met with in the shops. Oil of cajeput is a powerful antispasmodic and diffusible stimulant. Dose. 3 to 6 drops, on sugar; in cholera, colic, epilepsy, hysteria, rheumatism, spasms, toothache, &c. Oil of Cam'phor. Syn. Liquid camphok; Oleum CAMPHOBiE, 0. c. volatile, L. Ob- tained from incisions in the wood of the cam- phor tree of Borneo and Sumatra {Dryobala- • nops aromatica), in which it exists in cavities * in the trunk; also by distillation from the ' branches of the Camphora officinarum, or laurel camphor tree. Colourless, when rectified. Sp. : gr. *910. Prod. 60 lb. of the crude brown oil yields 40 lb. oipure white oil and 20 lb. of cam- : phor. It rapidly oxidizes in the air. Used to . scent soap. See Camphob (Liquid). Oil of Car'away. Syn. Oleum cabui (Ph. L. E. & D.), O. c. ESSENTIALE, L. Froui the fruit of Car urn Carui (‘ caraway seeds’). Nearly colourless; aromatic; carminative. Sp. gr. •940; (old) *946 to *950. Prod. Av. 5g (nearly). It is frequently adulterated with oil of cumin. Oil of Car'damoms. Syn. Oleum cabda- ' MOMi, 0. C. ESSENTIALE, L. From the seedo[ lo Elettaria Cardamomum, or true cardamom. Colourless; fragrant; carminative. Sp. gr. *943. Prod. 5g (nearly). The eayysw/es (‘lesser ^ cardamoms’) yield only about of oil. (M. Raybaud.) Oil of Cascaril'la. Syn. Oleum cascabil- ^ LJE, L, From the bark of Groton eleuteria i ^ (Swartz.), or cascarilla tree. Very fragrant, i ■ Prod. *42 to *752. Oil of Cassia. Syn. Oil of China cinna- i MON; Oleum CASSiiE (Ph. E.), L. From cas- ' sia buds, or from cassia bark. Golden-yellow; aromatic; fragrant. It is generally adul- terated with rectified spirit. Nitric acid con- verts the pure oil into a crystalline mass. Sp. gr. 1*071 to 1*073; (oW) 1*078 to 1‘090. Prod. From the buds, Ig (barely); from the bark of commerce, *75§. It is frequently sold for oil of cinnamon. Oil of Cehadilla. Syn. Oil of sabadilla; Oleum cebadill^, L. A green butyraceous matter, obtained from Asagrcea officinalis. *0il of Ce'dar-wood. From the wood of a spe- cies of Cedrus. It consists of two hydrocar- bons. One, a volatile liquid {cedrene), and the other a solid, crystalline compound, containing oxygen. Prod. *2 to *25§. Oil of Ce'drat. Syn. Essence of cedba; Oleum cedbi, O. citbi finum, L. From the exterior yellow rind of the fruit of Citi'us medica (Risso), or citrons, either by expression or distillation, as oil of bergamot. The first portion of oil that comes over is colourless; the latter portion, greenish. Very fragrant. Sp. gr. * 847. Prod. 100 citrons yield nearly 1 fl. oz. of pale, and ^ fl. oz. of green oil. See Oil of Citbon {below). | ] Oil of Cel'ery Seed. Syn. Oleum apii, L. j