OILS (FIXED). 951 a sand bath, and the product rectified with four times its volume of water. White, limpid, fragrant. Light discolours it. Prop. The refined product is said to be antispasmodic, anodyne, and diaphoretic. Dose. i 5 to 30 drops, in water; in large doses, it acts as an irritant poison. Oil of Birch. Syn. Oleum betul^, L. From the inner bark of the birch, by heating it in an earthen pot with a hole in the bottom, to allow the oil to flow through into another jar sunk in the ground and luted to it. Thick, balsamic, fragrant. Used chiefly to dress Kussia leather. I Oil of Box-wood. Syn. Oleum buxi, O. b. i empteeumaticum (Ph. L. 1746), L. From box-wood sawdust. Reputed resolvent; ano- dyne, antispasmodic, and diaphoretic. Dose. j 6 to 20 drops; in convulsions, epilepsy, gonor- ; rhoea, &c. Externally, in toothache, &c. Oil of Bricks. Syn. Oleum lateeitium (Ph. L. 1746), L. From olive oil, mixed with briekdust, and distilled; or, from hot bricks I steeped in olive oil, then broken to pieces, and distilled. Oil of Bricks (Factitious). Syn. Oleum lateeitium pactitium, L. From linseed oil, 1 lb.; oil of turpentine, ^ lb.; oil of bones or of hartshorn and Barbadoes tar, of each, 1 oz.; simply stirred well together. This is generally substituted for the preceding in the shops. Oil of Cade. Syn. Oleum cadinum, L. ; Huile de cade, Fr. From the Juniperus oxycedrus or Languedoc juniper. Used as oil of tar, which is commonly sold for it. Oil of Coal. Syn. Coal oil. From the gas-works. See Naphtha. j Oil of Gua'iacum. Syn. Oleum guaiaci, I 0. G. EMPTEEUMATICUM, L. From guaiacum shavings or raspings. Reputed balsamic, pec- toral, and resolvent. Oil of Harts'horn. Bone oil and rectified bone oil are commonly sold for it, but are inferior to it. See Animal Oil {above). Pa'per Oil. Syn. Rag oil, Pteothonide ; Oleum chaet.®, L. On the small scale, by burning paper on a cold tin plate, and col- lecting the oil; on the large scale, by the de- structive distillation of paper or linen rags. In baldness, toothache, ear-ache, &c. Far'affin Oil. See Mineeal Oils. Petro'leum Oil. See Mineeal Oils, Pe- TEOLEUM. Rag Oil. See Papee Oil {above). Rock Oil. See Naphtha, Mineeal Oils, Peteoleum. Shale Oil. See Mineeal Oils. Oil of Soot. Syn. Oleum puliginis (Ph. L. 1746), L. From wood-soot. Fetid; re- puted antispasmodic and nervine. Oil of Tar. Syn. Spieit op t. ; Oleum PiNi, O. p. eubeum, O. t^dae, O. picis li- quid.®, L. By simple distillation from wood- tar. Reddish and strong scented. By one or more rectifications it becomes colourless I and limpid. It soon gets thick. Used in ringworm and several other skin diseases, made into an ointment with lard. It is ^joi- sonous if swallowed in large doses. Oil of Tobac'co (Empyreumatic). Syn. Oleum tabaci empteeumaticum (Ph. U. S.), L. Prom tobacco, in coarse powder, gradually heated in a green-glass retort to dull redness, and kept at that temperature as long as any oil passes over; the oily portion is then sepa- rated from the water in the receiver, and kept for use. Highly narcotic and poisonous. Oil of Wax. Syn. Oleum cee^, L. From bees’ wax and sand distilled together; the product is rectified once or oftener. Reputed diuretic. Dose. 3 to 6 drops. OILS (Fixed). Syn. Fat oils. Unctuous O. ; OlEA FIXA, 0. EXPEESSA, L.; Huiles GEASSES, Fr. The fixed oils are compounds of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen (oxthtdeo- CAEBONs), obtained from the organic kingdom, and characterised by their insipidity, unctu- osity, insolubility in water, and being lighter than that fluid. Olive oil, which is obtained from the vegetable kingdom, and speemaceti OIL, which is obtained from the animal king- dom, may be taken as types of the rest. The fixed oils are chie% found in the fruit and seeds of plants, and in thin membranous cells, forming what is called the adipose tissue, in the bodies of animals. According to their consistence, they may be classed into * oils,’ ^ BUTTEES,’ and ‘ tallows.’ Prop., ^c. Among the best-known proper- ties of the fixed oils are—the permanent stain they give to paper, which they render trans- lucid; their non-volatility at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere, or at that of boiling water, or, indeed, at any temperature insufficient for their decomposition; their con- stantly floating on tlie surface of water when added to it; and, lastly, their great repug- nance to mix with that fluid. Some of them, as palm oil and cocoa-nut oil, are solid at ordinary temperatures; but the majority are fluid, unless they have been considerably cooled, when they separate into two portions —the one solid, consisting chiefly of steaein, or some analogous substance, and the other liquid, consisting chiefly of olein or elain. Nearly all of them, when exposed to the air, absorb oxygen rapidly, and either gradually harden or become rancid and nauseous. From the/r«^ are selected the ‘ detinG oils ’ used by painters; the last are used as food, in cookery, and for machinery, lamps, &c. The whole of these oils, when heated to their boiling-points (500° to 600° Fahr.), suffer de- composition, yielding various htdeocaebons ; and when suddenly exposed to a red heat, they furnish a gaseous product (oil-gas), which was formerly employed for illumination. It is owing to this property of oil and liquid fats that candles and lamps give their light. The wick is a gas-producing apparatus in miniature. With the caustic alkalies and water, the fixed oils unite to form soap.