1208 SODA. ported with a little of the essences of amber- gris and Portugal, for perfume. Palm-oil Soap. Syn. Violet soap. Made of palm oil and caustic soda lye. It has a pleasant odour of violets and a lively colour. Pearl Soap. Syn. Almond ceeam ; Ceeme d’amandes, Fr. Prep. From a soap made of lard and caustic potash lye; when quite cold, it is beaten in small portions at a time in a marble mortar, until it unites to form a homogeneous mass, or ‘pearls’ as it is called; essence of bitter almonds, q. s., to perfume, being added during the pounding. Savon a la Rose. [Fr.] Prep. From a mixture of olive-oil soap, 36 lb. ; best tallow soap, 24 lb.; (both new and in shavings;) water, 1 quart; melted in a covered bright copper pan, by the heat of a water bath, then coloured with vermilion (finely levigated), 2^ oz.; and, after the mixture has cooled a little, scented with otto of roses, 3 oz.; es- sence of bergamot, 2^ oz.; oils of cloves and cinnamon, of each, 1 oz. Sha'Ving Soap. See Paste (Shaving). Transpa"rent Soap. Prep. From perfectly dry almond, tallow, or soft soap, reduced to shavings, and dissolved, in a closed vessel or still, in an equal weight of rectified spirit, the clear portion, after a few hours’ repose, being poured into moulds or frames; after a few weeks’ exposure to a dry atmosphere, the pieces are ‘trimmed up’ and stamped, as de- sired. It may be scented and coloured, at will, by adding the ingredients to it while in the soft state. A eose coloue is given by tincture of archil; and tellow, by tinc- ture of turmeric or annotta. It does not lather well. Windsor Soap. Syn. Sapo Vindesoe^, S. Vindesoeiensis, L. Prep. 1. (White; S. V. ALBHS.) The best ‘ English’ is made of a mixture of olive oil, 1 part, and ox tallow or suet, 9 parts, saponified by caustic soda. ‘ French Windsor-soap’ is made of hog’s lard, with the addition of a little palm oil. That of the shops is merely ordinary curd soap, scented with oil of caraway, supported with a little oil of bergamot, lavender, or origanum. To the finer qualities a little of the essences of musk and ambergris is occasionally added. lb. of the mixed scents is the common pro- portion per cwt. 2. (Beown ; S. V. PUSCHS.) This merely differs from the last in being coloured with burnt sugar, or (less frequently) with umber. Originally, it was the white variety, that had become mellow and brown with age. SO'DA. Syn. Oxide op sodium, Peot- oxiDE OP s.; Soda, L. ; Nateon, Ger. This substance bears the same relation to its me- tallic base SODIUM as potassa does to potas- sium. The HYDEATE OP SODA (sODiE HTDEAS), as well as its solution (liquoe sod^), are pre- pared from carbonate of soda in precisely the same way as the corresponding preparations of potassa. The majority of the salts of soda may also be obtained in a similar manner those of potassa. Tests, fyc. Pure soda, its hydrate and sa’^ in their general deportment and properti resemble potassa and its corresponding co pounds ; but its basic and alkaline actions ; rather less powerful than those of potassa. Soda and its salts are recognised—1, by th solubility in water, and not being precipitat by any reagent except the ‘ antimoniate potassa,’ which gives, in alkaline and neut solutions, a white crystalline precipitate, 1s formation of which is greatly promoted friction with a glass rod against the sides the vessel; (if carbonate of potassa is prese it should be neutralized with acetic acid befj applying this test;)—2, by yielding a salt w sulphuric acid, which, by its taste {intern bitter) and form (six-sided prisms, trans rent, and extremely efflorescent), is read recognised as ‘ sulphate of soda’;—3, by salts, when exposed by means of platin wire to the inner flame of the blowpipe, i parting a rich yellow colour to the outer flan —4, by its muriate (chloride of sodium) £ other salts imparting a yellow tinge to ' flame of alcohol. Like the other alkalies is distinguished in the caustic and carbona states—5, by turning turmeric brown i vegetable blues green. Soda is distinguished from potassa—1, by hydrate, after it has deliquesced in the v speedily resolidifying by the absorption of c bonic acid, forming carbonate of soda, a i marked by being easily crystallizable, £ rapidly efflorescing when exposed to dry air 2, by not being precipitated by bichloride • platinum, nor by picric nor tartaric acid 3, by all the reactions“noticed in the precedi paragraph, except the last one. Ac'etate of Soda. Syn. Sod.® acetas (i D.), L. Prepared from carbonate of soda the corresponding potassa salt; but the resi ing solution is evaporated to a pellicle, £ set aside to crystallize. Its crystals are si ated oblique rhombic prisms; it efflores slightly in the air, and is soluble in 4 parts; water at 60° Fahr. Diuretic. Dose. 20 40 gr. Arse"niates of Soda. These salts are mi- like, and resemble in their properties and rfo.* the corresponding potash-salts. Bibo"rate of Soda. See Boeax. Bicar'bonate of Soda. See below. Car’bonates of Soda. Three carbonates soda are known, two being very import!|j salts:— 1. Car'bonate of Soda. Syn. MoNO-CiE; ■ NATE OE SODA, SUBCAEBONATE OE S.f, SALT | BAEILLAf, Mild MINEEAL ALKALlf; So CAEBONAS (Ph. L. E. & D.), Sod.® subc. - BONAsf, Natron CAEBONicuMf, L. The c» bonate of soda of commerce (washing soij was formerly prepared from the ashes of weed and other marine vegetables, in a sor| what similar manner to that by which car,: