AMMONIA. 141 of soda (each well-dried and powdered), equal i parts; mix, and with a gradually increased heat, sublime from an earthen retort into a I refrigerated receiver. ; Prop., 4‘C. The last is solid and ci’ystalline; and evolves a stronger ammoniacal odour than tlie sesquicarbonate, but one feebler than that from liquor of ammonia. Both are distm- j (juished from the ‘ sesquicarbonate ’ and ‘ bicar- I bonate ’ by their solutions giving a white II precipitate on the addition of chloride of !' barium, and no further 2Jrecipi(ate when pure i liquor of ammonia is added to the mixture, j Their other properties, for the most part, i resemble those of the sesquicarbonate, except I in being stronger. On exposure to the air i the neutral carbonate volatilises, with decom- I position into ammonia and carbonic acid; and to this maybe attributed its superior pungency to the other carbonates of ammonia. I Uses, Sfc. In the solid form, it is not now ij used in medicine; but it is indirectly em- j jdoyed in several liquid preparations in which the sesquicarbonate is ordered. It is superior 51 to any other preparation of ammonia for I filling ‘smelling bottles;’ as it is not only more pungent, but does not lose its pungency by keeping. It volatilises more quickly than I the ‘ sesquicarbonate,’ and the residuum, unlike I that of the latter salt, continues as odorous as I ever. It is the basis of several of the most j popular and esteemed advertised ‘ smelling salts ’ of the shops. Spirit of hartshorn is an j impure solution of this salt, originally obtained { by distilling hartshorn or bones. See Sesqui- C'AHBOi^ATE OF AmMONIA, SmELLINQ SaLTS, ; Ac. 2. Sesquicar'bonate of Ammonia. Syn. Car- BOX ATE OF AMMOXIA (q/*//ie sftops); SeSQUI- I (.'AKEOXATE OF OXIDE OF AMMO"XIUM; AM- I -MO"XI.E sesquicab'boxas (Ph. L. & D.), j Ammonia car'boxas (Ph. E. & U. S.), A. srs- I car'boxas t, L. Carboxate d’ammoniaque, Pr.; Kohlexsaures ammoxiak, Ger.; Smel- i LTXO-SALTS J, VOLATILE S.%, BaKER’S SALTJ j (or tech.); SdBCAR'BOXATE of AMMOXIAf, I Prepared A.f, Volatile sal AMMOxiAcf. I This is the substance popularly known as ' '‘‘smelling salts,” or “carbonate of ammonia.” I 'I'he London and Dublin Colleges now include I it in their lists of the Materia Medica. I Prep.—a. (On the small scale:—Ph. E. 11841; Ph. L. 1836.) Sal ammoniac, 1 lb.; ' chalk', 1* lb.; separately dried and pow-1 I dered; then thoroughly mixed together, and I subjected, in a retort (or other suitable vessel) I connected with a proper receiver, to a gradually I increasing heat, so long as vapours pass I over. I b. (On the large scale ; Commercial JSesqui- carbonate.) Sal ammoniac or sulphate of ammo- nia, and chalk, equal parts, both dry and in powder, are mixed as before, and sublimed from a series of iron-retorts or iron-pots, into a well- cooled and ca2)acious receiver lined with lead or earthenware ; or, more generally, into such a receiver connected, by iron or lead pipes, with a second and similar one containing a stratum of water, to absorb the free ammonia evolved during the process. (See below.) Ratio. According to the common explana- tion of the above process, the new salt is formed by the double decomposition of three equivalents of each of the ingredients; the product being three equiv. of chloride of cal- cium, or of sulphate of lime} which are left in the retort, and one equiv. each of hydrated sesqui- carbonate of ammonia, ammonia, and water, which pass over into the receivers; the last two being condensed in the second receiver, to be subsequently saturated with acid, and thus again converted into ‘sulphate of ammonia,’ or ‘ hydrochlorate of ammonia,’ ready for future use in the same process, or otherwise, as convenient. Different authorities give different explanations of the peculiar chemical changes which occur, depending on the par- ticular theory which they adv^ocate. Prop. The sesquicarbonate of ammonia, of commerce, usually occurs in the form of white, fibrous, translucent, or semi-translucent cakes, generally about two inches thick. It is less volatile and pungent than the neutral car- bonate; soluble in 4 parts of water at 55° Fahr,, 3‘3 parts at 62°, 2-5 parts at 96°, and 2 parts at 120°; boiling water and alcohol de- compose it, with the evolution of carbonic acid gas and ammonia; by age or ex})osure to air, the surface assumes an opaque white colour, from its carbonate flying off, and the remain- ing bicai’bonate being less volatile. hTnlike the carbonate, it can neither be resublimed, nor digested or distilled with either alcohol or water, without suffering decomposition. Sp. gr., 0*966. Comp. The composition of that of commerce is variable, depending on the mode of its pre- paration, and the action of the atmosphere. When obtained direct from the ingredients by one sublimation, or when it has been carefully and quickly resublimed, the proportions of its constituents are those of a sesqui(‘arbonate; when, how’ever, “ it has been obtained by re- peated sublimations, or by one very slow sub- limation, it has changed into a f carbonate of ammonia.” (Rose.) The following are the results obtained by Mr. R. Phillips and Dr. Ure:— 1 According (o the u,umoniu-S(tU employed.