1034 PARSLEY—PASTE. its dark lateral bars by the superaddition of a silvery pigment. It was formerly regarded as a distinct species. PARS'LEY. Syn. Peteoselinum, L. This well-known herb is the Apium petroselinum. The root is diuretic; the fruit (‘seed’) car- minative; the leaves are a pleasant stimulat- ing salad and condiment, and are much used to flavour bi’oth and soup. “The fruit is a deadly poison to parrots.” (Lind, ex Burnett.) PARS'NEP. The root of Pastinaca sativa. Used as a table vegetable. The juice is some- times made into wine. PASTE. Syn. Pasta, L. ; Pate, Pr. This word is very loosely applied to substances and preparations differing so widely from each other, that it would be scarcely possible to class them together. We shall, therefore, refer the reader to the individual articles. The pastes {pates') of French pharmacy are compound medicines of the consistence of hard dough, and which do not stick to the fingers. They are formed of sugar and gum, dissolved in water or in some medicated liquid. They are evaporated, so as to iniite these prin- ciples by degrees, and give them the pliancy and the firmness of paste. They are employed internally in doses more or less variable, in a similar manner to lozenges. “ Pates, properly so called, are divided into transparent, or such as are made without agitation, like jujubes of brown liquorice; and opaque, or such as are made with agitation, like the pates of marsh- mallow, lichen, &c.” (Trousseau and Reveil. See Pastes (Artificial Gems), Pastey, and below. ATmond Paste. Syn. Pasta amygdalina, P. AMYGDALAEUM, P. EEGIA, L.; PaTE EOY- ALE, Fr. Prep. 1. (Moist.)—a. "TdiVe oi blanched Valentia almonds, 4 oz.; reduce them to a very smooth paste by patient pounding in a clean mortar, adding, towards the last, a little rose water, with some eau de Cologne, or 3 or 4 drops of otto of roses or neroli, or an equivalent quan- tity of any other perfume, according to the fancy of the artiste. b. From bitter and (blanched), equal parts; rose water, q. s. It requires no other perfume. c. To either of the preceding add of sper- maceti, ^ oz. The white of an egg, or \ oz. of white soap, is added by some makers. With about i dr. of powdered camphor to each oz. of the above, it forms the ‘ camphoeated al- mond paste’ of the shops. d. Take^ne Narbonne honey Bcadi white bitter paste (see below), of each, 1 lb.; beat them to a smooth paste, then add, in alternate por- tions, of oil of almonds, 2 lb.; yolks of 5 eggs ; and reduce the whole to a perfectly homoge- neous pasty mass. Much esteemed. It is commonly sold under the name of ‘ honey PASTE,’ ‘ PATE eoyale,’ &c. In a similar man- ner are made nosegay, orange, rose, vanilla, and other like pastes having almonds for a basis, by merely adding the respective perfumes, 2. (PULVEETTLENT.)—a. {Gray.) Prepared from the cake of bitter almonds from which the oil has been thoroughly expressed, by drying, grinding, and sifting it. b. {Bitter ivhite.) As the last, but the almonds are blanched before being pressed. c. {Sweet white.) As the last, but using sweet almonds. Obs. All the above are used as cosmetics, to soften and whiten the skin, prevent chaps, abrasions, chilblains, &c. The honey paste, and the sweet and bitter white pastes, are those most esteemed. (See below.) Almond Paste. (In confectionery.) Prep, 1. Take of Valentia almonds, 3 lb.; bitter do., i lb.; blanch them, and reduce them to a very smooth paste by pounding, then put them into a clean copper pan along with white sugar and good gum arabic, of each, 1 lb.; (the last pre. viously dissolved in about a pint of water;) apply a gentle heat, and stir until the whole is mixed and has acquired a proper consistence, then pour it out on a smooth, oiled, marble slab, and when cold cut it into squares. 2. As the last, but when the mixture has acquired the consistence of thick honey, set- ting it aside to cool; when nearly cold, the whites of 6 eggs are to be added, and heat being again gradually applied, the whole is to be stirred until it acquires the proper consist- ence, as before. 3. Blanched sweet almonds and white sugar, of each, lib.; blanched bitter almonds and powdered gum, of each, 3 oz.; beat them, in the cold, to a perfectly smooth paste, with orange-flower water or rose water, q. s., so that it may be sufficiently stiff* not to stick to the • fingers, [and then cut the mass into squares, as before. The above are eaten as confeeh tions. Ancho'vy Paste. Prep. Remove the larger bones from the fish, and then pound them to a smooth paste in a marble mortar, adding a little bay-salt and cayenne pepper, at will; next rub the pulp through a fine hair sieve, and about 3-4ths fill the pots with it; lastly, cover the surface of each to^the depth of about I inch -with good butter in a melted state. It should be kept in a cool situation. Other fish pastes, as those of bloatees, lobstebs, SHEiMPS, CAYIAEE, &c., are made in a similar manner. Arsenical Paste. See Caustics, Patent Medicines, and Powdees. Baudry’s Paste. See Pectoeal Paste {below). Bird Paste. See Geeman Paste {page 686). Black Currant Paste. As black cueeant LOZENGES, but simply cutting the mass into dice or square. Car'rageen Paste. Prep. From Irish moss, as the LICHEN paste of the P. Cod. (see below] Chinese’Paste. Prep. Vrovci bullock's blood, 10 lb., reduced to dryness by a gentle heat, then powdered, and mixed with quicklime, alsc in fine powder, 1 lb. It is used as a cement