PLUMBUM CORNEUM—POISON. 1103 jompouiids which have been called PLrar- lATES. (See page 828.) I PLUM'BUM COR'NEUM. See Chloeide F Lead {page 826). PLU'MOSE AL'UM. The old name of the Iky amianthine crystals of the double sul- hate of alumina and iron occasionally found n alum slate. Asbestos has also been so ailed. PLUNKETS CANCER REMEDY. See Pedn- et"s Caustic {page 407). I PNEUMO"NIA. Sgn. Pneumony, Peei- Ineumony; Pneumonitis, Peeipneumonia, ii. Inflammation of the lungs. J Causes. Undue exposure of the body to old, wet, &c.; suppressed perspiration; inor- i inate exei’tion of the lungs, in singing, speak- jig, or playing on wind instruments, &c.; ,nd other circumstances inducing a determi- j ation of blood to the lungs, or an unnatural ction of them. Hence the robust and lethoric are the most subject to attacks of aieumonia. Sgmp. Feverishness; difficulty of breath- ng; pain in the side or chest; cough; a trong, hard, and quick pulse, afterwards be- oming weak, soft, and irregular. As the in- iiammation increases, there is delirium and jhreatened suffocation; the vessels of the jieck become turgid and swollen, the colour of I he face changes to a purple, an effusion of jtlood takes place into the cellular substance of he lungs, its functional action becomes im- peded, and the patient rapidly sinks, and jlies. At other times it proves fatal by in- |lucing suppuration and gangrene. Abundant 1‘xpectoration, perspiration, or diarrhoea, are leld to be favourable symptoms. [ Treat. This is similar to that noticed under I’LEURisY; to which mercurials, and small loses of morphia, opium, or henbane, may be ulded, to quiet the cough and procure sleep, i n the severer forms of this disease, prompt jind skilful medical assistance is the only neans of affording the patient a chance of I ecovery. I POACHING. Amongst cooks, a peculiar jnethod of cooking small articles by a slight Joiling or stewing process. Poached eggs are prepared by breaking hem into a small saucepan or stewpan con- aining about ^ a pint of boiling water, to •vhich a teaspoonful of common salt, and, oc- casionally, a little vinegar, is added, and gently Immering them for 3 to 4 minutes, or until mfficiently firm to bear removal with a spoon ’r ‘ slice.’ Another method is to employ melted Gutter, instead of water, and to dress them nther with or without stirring. Poached eggs are commonly served on toast, j >r with// /erf ham or bacon, with spice or vege- \^able seasoning at will. They form an excel- lent breakfast, or ‘ make-shift dinner.’ i PODOPH'YLLIN. Sgn. Resin of podo- rHYLLUM; Resina podophylli, L. Ob- Itained from the root of the Podophyllum pelta- tum (Linn.), or may-apple, a substance officinal in the Ph. U. S. Prep. The alcoholic extract of may-apple is digested in cold ether, to remove fatty matter, and is then dissolved in rectified spirit; the solution is decoloured with a little animal char- coal, and filtered; it is, lastly, allowed to eva- porate spontaneously. Prop., c^c. An amorphous, grayish-white mass, soluble in alcohol, and slightly soluble in w'ater. It is a safe and certain cathartic, superior in activity to resin of jalap. Dose. ^ to 3 gr. See Extract of May-apple. POIS'ON. Syn. Toxicum, Venenum, L. Any substance which, when swallowed, or ap- plied in any particular way to the living body, disturbs, suspends, or destroys one or more of the vital functions. In sufficient quantity, or in small doses long continued, the common result of the administration of deleterious substances is either impaired vitality or death. Poisons are classified by Orfila under four heads:— 1. Ieeitant poisons, or such as inflame or corrode the parts wnth which they come in contact. Their chief effects are upon the alimentary canal, with, sometimes, ulceration of the tongue, fauces, and oesophagus. Nau- sea, vomiting, stomachic and intestinal pains, extreme anxiety and anguish, quick and feeble pulse, cold and clammy skin, and mucous, bilious, or bloody diarrhoea, are among the common leading symptoms. Arsenic, blue vitriol, verdigris, strong acids and alkalies, drastic purgatives, and numerous other sub- stances, belong to this class. 2. Narcotic or Stupefying poisons, or such as paralyse the functions of the nervous system, and produce headache, vertigo, con- fused vision, delirium, stupor, convulsions coma, &c. It includes morphine, opium, hen- bane, oil of bitter almonds, prussic acid, &c. 3. Naecotico-ACRID POISONS, which produce at the same time narcotism and irritation of the parts which they touch. Alcohol, bel- ladonna, cocculus Indicus, colchicum, foxglove, hemlock, poisonous fungi, strychnine, tobacco, veratrine, &c., are of this kind. 4. Septic or Puteefiant poisons, in- cluding all those which alter, liquefy, or cause the putrescence of the fluids of the body; as sulphuretted hydrogen, the gas from sewers and cesspools, putrefying organic matter, miasmata, &c. The treatment of cases of poisoning varies with the substance occasioning it; and, with the proper antidotes, will be found noticed under the names of the various substances that exert a deleterious action on the animal body. It may here, however, be useful to remark, that in almost all cases of poisoning copious vomiting should be excited as soon as possible by the administration of a powerful emetic (see page 557) ; its action being pro- moted by copious draughts of lukewarm water, tickling the throat with the finger, &c. Should