264 BANDANA—BARILLA. applied in the same manner. See Embeo- CATiONS, Lotioijs, Poeltices, &c. BANDAN'A. [Ind.] S^jn. Bandan'na. A handkerchief, originally from the East Indies, having white spots on a red, blue, or other dark ground. In calico-printing, a ‘ discharge style’ in imitation of the Indian ‘badanas.’ li\\Q fabric, many folds thick, is placed between leaden plates having the pattern cut out of them; hydraulic pressure is then applied, and a clear solution of chloride of lime forced through, followed by a stream of pure water} BAND'OLINE (-Im; -lenej). See Fixa- TFEE. BANE. Poison; anything deleterious or destructive; a word often found joined to another, in the popular and vulgar names of plants and diseases, to denote their character; as BANE'-BEEEY, the herb Christopher; bane'- WOET, deadly-nightshade / sheep’s bane, the rot; &c. BANG, Bangue (bang'). [Nat.] See Indian Hemp. BAN'IAN (ban'yan). The fi'cus In'dicus (Linn.), or Indian-fig. The fruit and young branches yield one species of gum-lac; and both tide juice and bar/c are used medicinally. Among sailors, banian' days, are those on which butcher’s meat is not served up at dinner. BANN'OCK (-uk). In Scotland and the northern counties of England, a flat round cake made of oat, rye, or barley meal, baked on an iron plate over the Are, or on the hot hearth. BA'OBAB. [Afr.] The adanso'nia digita'ta (Linn.), or Ethiopian sour-gourd, the largest known tree in the world; the trunk being sometimes 30 feet in diameter, but with a height not in proportion. Its longevity is remarkable. Adanson asserted that he had seen baobabs which must have been 6,000 years old (DC.); yet, however old the tree, the bark always continues green, shining, and vigorous. BAR (Management). See Countee, Re- tail, &c. BARBA'DOES LEG. See Elephantiasis. BARB'EL (-el; barb'lj). Syn. Baeb'leX; Bae'bo, Bae'bhs, B. yulga"eis, Cypei'nus B. (Linn.), L.; Baebeau, Fr.; Flhssbaebe, Ger. An indigenous fresh water abdominal fish, so named from its having in its upper jaw, four beard-like appendages. Its fiesh is coarse and indigestible; the roe, violently emetic. Its fry were once erroneously sup- posed to be white-bait. BARB'ELS (-elz; barb'lzj). In farriery, knots or lumps of superfluous flesh growing in the channel of a horse’s mouth. To re- move them, or promote their absorption, a little compound ointment or tincture of iodine may be applied to them twice a day. BAR'BERRY. Syn. Pep'peeidge-bhshJ, Thorny box-'teee*; Bee'beris, B. vulga"- 1 For a full description of tlie process, see Brande’s ‘ Qnar. Jour. ofSci. / Art.}’ 1823. Ris (Linn.), L.; Epine-yinette, Vinettier, Fr.; Beebeeitze, Ger. A perennial bush or shrub common in woods and hedges. Berries (bae'bereies, pep'peeidges), gratefully acid, cooling, and astringent; used in pastry, but require, according to their degree of ripeness, from one-half their weight to an equal weight of sugar. Both bark and berries w^ere for- merly esteemed in jaundice, biliary fluxes, &c. The crushed berries with water form a re- freshing fever-drink. The root dyes a fugitive yellow. See Beebeeine, Jams, Peeseryes, &c. BAR'BOTINE. A species of ‘semen contra’ produced by the artemisia Sieberi (DC.). BAREGE {barege, bar-razhe'). [Fr.] A light woollen fabric so named from having been first made in the valley of Bareges. Of late years Paris has become celebrated for its bareges; but these are generally woven with the‘warp’of silk, and the ‘woof’ of wool. In the common imitations of the shops, the ‘ warp ’ is generally of cotton. BAREGINE (baregine). See Glaieine. BARIL'LA. [Eng., Ger., L., Sp.] Syn. So'de cae'bonas yena'le, L. ; Baeig"lia, Baeil'loe, Sp., Lev.; Baeille, Sohde, Fr. The alkaline residuum of the combustion of salsola, salicornia, chenopodium, and other species of the order chenopodiacece. These plants, whicL are cultivated on the sea coast for the purpose, are cut down when ripe, dried, and burned in heaps, on iron-bars laid across pits dug in the earth. The alkali and saline matter contained in them is thus fused, and flows into the cavity below, forming, when cold, a hard gray or bluish porous mass which is BARILLA. Comp. Carbonate and sulphate of soda, chloride and sulphuret of sodium, carbonate and sulphate of lime, alumina, silica, oxide of iron, and imperfectly consumed carbonaceous matter, with a little iodine and bromine. The proportion of soda varies in different varieties:— Alicant' barilla ; obtained chiefly from several species of salso'la and from chenopo'- dium setiferum (-tij'-), &c.; contains from 25g to 402 of carbonate of soda. (Guibourt.) Cana"ey b. ; from salso'la ka'li. (Loudon.) French barillas:— a. Naebonne' b., salicoe ; from salicor'nia ann'ua or herba'cea; contains 14§ to 15g of carbonate of soda. b. B. OE Aighemoetes, blanquette ; from mixed plants; contains Sg to 8g of carbonate of soda. (Guibourt.) c. Noe'mandy b., N. SODA; from fuci. Sic'iLY BARILLA (sis'-). Principally from salso’la sati'va ; furnishes 55g of carbonate of soda. (Fee.) Good barilla, on the average, contains about 20g of real or available alkali, chiefly under the form of carbonate, besides sulphates, mu- riates, &c. Assay. See Alkalimetry.