673 FUMARAMIDE—FUMIGATION. Nicr>i, L. A peoallar acid formed by the action of nitrous acid on alcohol in the pre- sence of a salt of silver or mercury. It has never been isolated. Cyanic, pulminic, and I CYANTJRIC ACIDS, are isomeric compounds, I but differ in their powers of saturation; the I first being monobasic, the second bibasic, [ and the last tribasic. The salts of fulminic , acid are called fulyiinates. Those of silver, ^ mercury, copper, and zinc, are described j above. They are characterised by the property i of exploding by friction, percussion, or heat. 1 FUMAR'AMIDE. A white insoluble powder, I formed by the action of ammonia on fumaric I ether. It closely resembles oxamide. ^ FUMAR'IC ACID. A peculiar acid, dis- covered by Lassaigne, and produced by the action of heat on malic acid. Prep. Pure malic acid is kept heated a little ' i higher than its melting-point for some time, until it forms a crystalline mass, which is then powdered, and washed with cold water, to remove any undecomposed malic acid. Prop., d^c. Small, white, crystalline laminae; freely soluble in hot water and in alcohol, but requires 200 parts of cold water for its solu- tion ; heated in a strong current of air, it sub- limes ; wuth the bases it forms salts termed fumarates; with alcohol it forms fumaric ETHER. This acid w’as originally obtained from Fumaria officinalis, or common fumitory; hence its name. i FUMIGATION. Syn. Fumigatio, Suffu- I MIGATIO, L. Fumigations (fumigationes) are vapours of gases extemporaneously extri- cated for the purpose of destroying contagious or noxious miasmata or effluvia, or to mask unpleasant odours, or to produce a medicinal * \ action on those parts of the body with which they are brought in contact. Fumigations, for the purpose of obviating or masking unpleasant odours in the sick chamber, must never be employed to the neglect of cleanliness and ventilation ; for most of them, instead of purifying the air, actually render it less fit for respiration. The common practice of burning scented paper, pastilles, sugar, juniper berries, benzoin, cascarilla, &c., so as to create an odoriferous smoke, is of this character. As disinfecting agents, they are probably use- less; and are relics of an ancient custom of I burning frankincense and other odorous sub- stances in vitiated air, to overcome the fetor which is more or less present. The fumes thus diffused through the atmosphere disguise unpleasant odours; but they accomplish no- 1 thing more. The infection remains not only unaltered by the diffusion of the most powerful aromatic vapours, but its deleterious properties are sometimes augmented by them.’’^ Among the various substances used as Dis- ^ Wc deem it right to remark that a different opinion 1 respeeting the disinfecting power of odoriferous smoke is j now Itcld by many seientilie men. Aecording to this opinion, tlic minute particles of aromatic substances do really destroy or n ndcr inert tlic noxious miasmata. INFECTING FUMIGATIONS, chlorine, by almost general consent, holds the first place. Dr. Carmichael Smyth recommended nitrous acid, which is even now preferred by Dr. Christison to chlorine; whilst Pi’of. Graham regards the fumes of burning sulphur as more efficacious than either of these substances. The vapours of hydrochloric acid and of vinegar, and the smoke of gunpowder, which once had their advocates, have now justly sunk into dis- favour. Of all common diseases, scarlet fever appears to be the one most requiring fumi- gation. For this purpose, chlorine gas or heat should be employed. The infectious matters of certain diseases, especially scarlet fevei’, are either dissipated or destroyed at a heat slightly above that of boiling water. (Dr. Henry.) Contagious diseases are very com- monly propagated in this meti’opoHs hy per- sons having their linen washed by laundresses who perform their operations in the same sinks of dirt and misery in which they live. See Cigars (in pharmacy). Disinfectant, Inha- lation, &c., and beluio. Ace'tic Fumigation. Syn. Fumigatio ace- TICA, L. The fumes of strong vinegar or acetic acid, obtained by heating the liquid over a lamp, or by sprinkling it on a hot shovel. Aromatic vinegar in this way yields very re- freshing fumes, and was formerly thought more efficacious than simple acetic acid. An'odyne Fumigation. Syn. Fumigatio ANODYNA, L. Prep. (Trousseau & Reveil.) Stramonium and sage, equal parts, sufficient to fill a small pipe. Smoked in spasmodic asthma, irritating coughs, &c. Aromat'ic Fumigation. See Balsamic Fu- migation. Balsamic Fumigation. Syn. Aromatic fu- migation; Fumigatio akomatica, F. bal- SAMICA, L. Prep. 1. From gum benzoin, either alone or mixed with olibanumov sty rax, thrown on hot cinders or a heated shovel. 2. (Dr. Dohrn.) Gum olibanum, 4- parts; gum benzoin, styrax, and flowers of roses and lavender, of each, 1 part; to be reduced to powder, and used as before. 3. Amber, mastic, and olibanum, of each, 3 oz.; benzoin and styrax, of each, 1 oz.; camphor, 1 dr. As last. The above are used in hooping-cough, asthma, &c.; a small quan- tity only being employed at a time. Beiladon'na Fumigation. Syn. Fumigatio belladonn.e, L. Prep. (M. Schroeder.) From dried belladonna leaves, 1 to 2 dr.; as before. In spitting of blood, asthma, tick- ling cough, Ac. Chlo"rine Fumigation. Syn. Disinfecting fumigation, Guyton-morveau’s f. ; Fumi- gatio CHLORiNii, L. Prep. 1. (P. Cod.) Common salt, 3 parts; water and sulphuric acid, of each, 2 parts; black oxide of manga- nese, 1 part; mix in a shallow vessel, placed in the centre of the apartment. This is used to disinfect unoccupied rooms. 43