240 ASTHMA. causes are over-exertion of the eyes, particu- larly by artificial light, or by a very brilliant one, or during convalescence; congestion of the ocular vessels; debilitating discharges or indulgences; and general nervous debility, however produced. It “ appears to consist in weakness of the apparatus by which the eye is adjusted for the vision of near objects;” and along with this “ there is an irritable state of the retina, connected in some manner with a tendency to internal congestion of the eyes.”^ The treatment may consist of rest to the eyes, and ablution of them in cold water, with such other efforts to restore their tone and the general health as are noticed under Amau- rosis. The prospect of complete cure, when the cause is not removable, is unfavorable; but even when confirmed the disease is not likely to end in blindness. The use of convex spectacles of very low power will generally be found serviceable. See Eye, Spectacles, Vision, &c. ASTH'MA (ast'-ma^). [Eng., Ger., L., Gr.] Syn. Asthme, Fr.; Engbrustigkeit, Ger. In pathology, a well-known disease coming on by fits, and characterised by shortness and diffi- culty of breathing, accompanied by a wheezing sound, cough, stricture and tightness of the chest, with other like symptoms. These gradually increase until the patient can no longer remain in a recumbent position, being, as it were, threatened with immediate suffo- cation ; and they generally terminate, after the lapse of a few hours, in copious expectoration. The attack usually commences towards even- ing, and the symptoms increase in urgency during the night—often occurring suddenly after the first sleep—until at length, on the approach of morning, a remission takes place, and, in all probability, the patient worn out and exhausted, falls into a sound sleep. On awaking in the morning he still feels the * tightness' at the chest, breathes with some difficulty, which is increased by moving, and cannot lie in bed unless his head and shoulders are greatly raised. After a repetition of the fits for some nights, they at length moderate, and after more considerable remissions, pass off at last, leaving the patient in his usual state of health for a time, or until fresh ex- citing causes produce a return of the disease. For an evening or two previous to the fit, the patient generally feels drowsy, indolent, and low-spirited, and experiences a sensation of fulness about the stomach, with headache, general uneasiness, and indigestion—these are the premonitory symptoms. Asthma is principally confined to the later periods of life, and appears in many cases to be hereditary. It is generally severest in the heat of summer, or in the foggy, or damp or windy weather of winter. The fits vary in duration from two to several hours. Some- 1 T. W. Jones. ‘‘Defects of Sight f bond, 1856; p. 82. 2 Asth'ma (with th fully sounded), as given hy Knowles, ia diflicultiy pronounceable, and is now obsolete. times copious expectoration commences early, which has led to the division of asthma, by nosologists, into two kinds—dry, nervous, or spasmodic asthma (asthma sic'cum, L.) and humid a. (a. hu'midum, L.). The exciting causes of asthma are exposure to sudden changes of temperature, particularly from heat to cold; unwholesome effluvia, hard drinking, heavy meals, indigestion, violent exercise, and cold, damp, foggy, and some- times, windy weather. Treatm. A dry, warm, and airy situation as a residence, should, if possible, be sought. The use of flannel next the skin, and tepid or warm bathing is also advantageous. The bowels should be kept regular by mild aperi- ents, and the stomach preserved in order by the adoption of a light and wholesome diet; particularly avoiding excess in either eating or drinking. The severity of the paroxysm may be generally lessened by adopting the sitting posture, and inhaling the vapour of hot water or of an infusion of chamomile. Small doses of camphor, ether, and opium, frequently repeated, may also be tried. The inhalation of the vapour of a little tar liquefied by heat, is said to often produce considerable relief. The fumes arising from the slow combustion of porous paper dipped in a solution of nitre, and dried, have also been recommended. “The fumes of a piece as big as one’s hand being placed on an earthenware plate, and ignited, presently become sensible throughout the room; and within a quarter of an hour their influence, in many cases, is rendered evident, in clearing the passages, and gradually open- ing the air-tubes.” “ Of calming vapours that of chloroform is, however, the one likely, in respect of its soothing power, to supersede all others. Inspired in moderate quantity, far less than is requisite to produce general insensibility, it has been found of singular efficacy in allaying, at once, the spasmodic distress of an asthma-fit. But it is a remedy too potent and subtile to be intrusted to the discretion of the patient himself,” (Dr. Watson); unless, indeed, he well imderstands its properties and nature, and has some friend near him to restrain his using it too freely—a thing he is, unfortunately, often tempted, by the urgency of the symptoms, to do. “ Bleed- ing is an imprudent operation in every species of asthma ” (Dr. Bree); and has often proved highly injurious, especially in elderly persons. It is only in full plethoric habits, or when the paroxysms are very severe, and attended with signs of congestion of the lungs and brain, indicated by lividity of the countenance, stupor, extreme dyspnoea, &c., that blood should be taken ; and then only by ‘ cupping ’ between the shoulders, or by leeches to the chest. Emetics, and active purgatives, must also be avoided during the paroxysm; at which time costiveness may be best removed by an aperient clyster containing assafoetida. At other times, emetics (of ipecacuanha) and