MUSTINESS—NAILS. 933 MUS'TINESS. See Malt Liquoes and Wines. MU'TAGE. The term applied to the ‘ match- ing’ of grape must to arrest the progress of fermentation. See Antiferment, Matches, &c. MUT'TON. The flesh of sheep. That of the \first quality is “ between four and five years I old; but at present it is rarely got above I three, and often under two. The flesh ought I to be of a darkish, clear, red colour, the fat I firm and white, the meat short and tender I when pinched, and it ought not to be too fat.” I The flesh of the ‘ Southdown wether'* is es- i teemed the finest flavoured. Mutton is one jof the most wholesome of the ‘red meats,’ I and in commercial importance is second only I to beef. i MY'COSE. A peculiar variety of sugar, ex- tracted by alcohol from ergot of rye. It crys- tallizes in colourless prisms, and is distin- guished from CANE SUGAR by not reducing the ‘ acetate of copper,’ when boiled with a solution of that salt. MYKOMELINTC ACID. An acid dis- covered by Wohler and Liebig, and obtained by heating to 212° a solution of alloxan with ammonia in excess, adding dilute sulphuric acid, also in excess, and boiling for a few minutes. The acid falls as a yellow gelatinous l)recipitate, which dries to a yellow, porous powder. It is only slightly soluble in water, but is freely soluble in alkaline solutions. MYRTCIN. The portion of bees’ icaa? which is least soluble in alcohol, and saponified with difficulty. I ' MYRIS'TIC ACID. A monobasic fatty acid, !' obtained by the saponification of myrislin. It melts at 120° Falir. MYRIS'TIN. Syn. Seeicine. The white, solid portion of the expressed oil of nulmegs, which is insoluble in cold alcohol. See My- EiSTic Acid. MYROLES. In French pharmacy, solutions of oleaginous or resinous substances in the volatile oils. MYRONTC ACID. Eussy has given this name to an inodorous, bitter, non-crystallizable acid found by him in black mustard. It is soluble in water and alcohol. MYRO'SIN. Syn. Emulsin of black mus- tard. A name given by Bussy to a peculiar substance, soluble in water, and which pos- sesses the power of converting myronic acid, in the presence of water, into the volatile oil of mustard seed. ! MYROSPERMlN. The name given by Richter to the portion of the oil of balsam of Peru which is soluble in alcohol. MYROXTLIN. The name given by Richter to the portion of the oil of balsam of Peru which is insoluble in alcohol. By oxygenation, it forms MYEOxiLic acid. MYRRH. Syn. Myreha (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “Gum resin exuded from the bark of Balsamodendron myrrha—Nees.” (Ph. L.) Pur.—1. Triturate a small quantity of the jiowder of the suspected myrrh with an equal amount of hydrochlorate of ammonia, adding water, gradually; if the whole is readily dis- solved, the myrrh is genuine; otherwise it is sophisticated with some inferior substance. (Righini.)—2. When incinerated, it should not leave more than 3^ to 42 of ashes. Uses, Sj’c. Myrrh is a stimulating aromatic bitter and tonic, and is given in several diseases accompanied by relaxation and de- bility ; especially in excessive secretions from the mucous membranes, and in disorders of i the digestive organs. Externally, as an ingre- I dient in dentifrices and rashes, in caries of the I teeth, spongy and ulcerated gums, &c. Dose. 10 to 30 gr.; either alone or combined with j aloes or chalybeates. NAILS (The) should be kept clean by the daily use of the nail-brush and soap-and-waler. After wiping the hands, but whilst they are still soft from the action of the water, the j skin, which is apt to grow over the nails, j should be gently loosened and pressed back, which will not only preserve them neatly rounded, but will prevent the skin cracking around their roots (agnails, nail-speings), and becoming sore. The free ends or points of the nails should be pared about once a week ; and biting them should be particularly avoided, as being at once destructive to their beauty and usefulness. “ The (free) edge of the scarf-skin should never be pared, the surface of the nail never scraped, or the nails cleaned with any instrument whatever saving the nail-brush.” (Eras. Wilson.) The consequences of wearing a shoe that is obviously too short for the foot are thus de- scribed by the above authority. “ In this case. Nature gives us warning, by means of her agent, pain, that such a proceeding is contrary to her laws. We stop our ears, and get accus- tomed to the pain, which, perhaps, is not severe, and soon goes off*; the shoes get a scolding for their malice, and we forget all about it for a time. But does Nature check her course to suit the convenience of thought- less man ? No, no. In a short time we find that the nail, intercepted in its forward course, has become unusually thick and hard, and has spread out so much upon the sides, that it is now growing into the flesh, and so makes a case for the doctor. Or, perhaps, the continuance of pressure may have inflamed the sensitive skin at the root, and caused a sore and painful place there. And instances are by no means infrequent in which the power of production of the nail at the root becomes entirely abrogated, and then it grows in thick- ness only.” When the nails are stained or discoloured, a little lemon juice, or vinegar-and-water, is the best application. Occasionally a little pumice- stone, in impalpable powder, or a little ‘putty