CARBONATE. 897 I and passing nearly to the bottom of a bottle or j receiver filled with pounded ice. The bisul- j PHUEET OP CAEBON collects at the bottom of the receiver, and is then purified from adhering ! moisture and sulphur by distilling it, at a low I temperature, from fused chloride of calcium, \ 2. By passing the vapour of sulphur over , fragments of charcoal, heated to bright red- I ness in a porcelain tube, and collecting the 1 product as before. j 3. (Mulder.) Take an iron bottle and make 1 a second opening into it. To one opening I adapt a copper tube bent twice at right angles; I and to the other a straight tube dipping into 1 the bottle. Having nearly filled the bottle { with pieces of fresh-burnt charcoal, screw on ' the bent and straight tubes, and place the I bottle in a furnace, closing the mouth of the latter with a stone or clay cover in two pieces, I hollowed in the centre so as to fit the upper I part of the bottle, and defend it from the . action of the fire. Connect the curved tube j with a Woolfe’s bottle (or any other convenient j receiver) half filled with water, and placed in ! a freezing mixture. When the iron bottle is 1 sufficiently heated, introduce by the straight j tube (see above) fragments of sulphur, and im- j mediately close the mouth of the tube with a I plug. The bisulphuret, as it comes over, falls 1 to the bottom of the water, and must be col- j lected and purified as before. 1 Prop., Uses, &fc. A colourless, pungent, fetid j liquid, having the sp. gr. 1‘27. It is ex- ! ceedingly volatile, boiling at 118’5° Fahr., and i has never been frozen. It is highly inflam- j mable, burning with a pale-plue flame, and j giving off sulphurous and carbonic acid gases. 1 It freely dissolves sulphur, phosphorus, and I several other substances, and by spontaneous j evaporation deposits the first in beautiful crys- I tals. The solution of phosphorus is much used I in electrotyping objects, which are coated with I a conducting film % its means. Its refractive ! power is remarkably high, and on this account i it is employed to fill hoUow lenses for spec- I TEOSCOPES and other optical instruments. It j produces intense cold by its evaporation. A I spirit thermometer, having its bulb covered I with cotton, if dipped into this fluid and sus- I pended in the air, rapidly sinks from 60° to 0®, i and if put into the receiver of an air-pump it I will fall to —81° Fahr. A mixture of bisul- phuret of carbon and solid carbonic acid forms I the most powerful frigorific agent known. ! Bisulphuret of carbon is now prepared on the i large scale, and extensively employed as a sol- i vent. See CAOUTCHorc, Gtitta Peecha, I CAR'BONATE. Syn. Caebo'nas, L. In chemistry, a salt containing carbonic acid. Prep., cf’c. The processes by which the COM- ' MEECIAL CAEBONATES and many others are i prepared are described under the respective ; bases. Most of the eaethy caebonates are ' found abundantly in nature. In general, the : salts of this class may be formed by adding an alkaline carbonate to a salt of the base in solu- tion by double decomposition. Prop. The carbonates of the alkalies are soluble in water; those of the other bases ai'e for the most part insoluble, except the water is highly charged with carbonic acid. From most of them the carbonic acid can be easily expelled by heat. Tests. The carbonates are easily distin- guished by the following reactions:—1. They dissolve with effervescence in hydrochloric acid, and in most other acids; in some cases a gentle heat is required to promote the disen- gagement of the gas.—2. The gas evolved in the last, passed into lime water and baryta water, occasions white precipitates, which redissolve in acids with effervescence, and after the solu- tion has been boiled are not reprecipitated by liquor of ammonia.—3. Chloride of calcium and chloride of barium give white precipitates in solutions of the neutral alkaline carbonates, but in solutions of the alkaline bicarbonates only after ebullition; and the precipitates are readily soluble with effervescence in acetic acid. Estim. The quantity of the base in an alkaline or earthy carbonate may be easily de- termined by the ordinary volumetric methods of ALKALIMETEY (which See), and the quantity of carbonic acid, by the method of Fresenius and Will (see page 97). The apparatus fi- gured below, or preferably that shown on page 35, may be used instead of the more com- plicated contrivance of the German chemists. With the appai'atus below, which is that commonly used, a weighed sample of the car- bonate to be examined is placed in the flask {a) along with a little water, and the small tube {b), filled with either sulphuric or hydro- chloric acid, is carefully introduced. The cork, with its chloride of calcium tube {d), is then fitted to the flask, and the whole apparatus very accurately weighed. (a.) Flask containing the sample of cai-honate for exa- mination,stopped by a closely-fitting cork, through which passes tlie bent tube (a). (S.) A small tube, sufficiently long to maintain a slanting position witliout falling, filled with stdpkttric or hydrochloric acid. (c.) A bent tube, connecting the flask with {d). Id.) Horizontal tube, filled with small fragments oi fused or dried chloride of calcium, w'ith a fine orifice at the extremity (e).