1211 SODA. ilphur, 1 part, and pass sxdphurous acid gas, i excess, into the solution; next boil the quid in a glass matrass for a few minutes, liter, gently evaporate the filtrate to l-3rd ,s volume, and set it aside in a cool place to irystallize. Prop., 8fc. Hyposulphite of soda crystal- zes in four-sided prisms, which, in the dry jcate, are unalterable in the air; it is freely oluble in water. It may be perfectly freed |rom sulphuret of sodium by agitating it with | jbout half its weight of alcohol; the alcohol lissolves out the sulphuret, which may then e easily separated. This salt is now very xtensively used in the practice of photo- raphy, also as an ‘ antichlore/ to extract the ist traces from paper pulp. I Mu"riate of Sodaf. Chloride of sodium. : Ni'trate of Soda. Sgn. Cubic nitee ; Sod.® ITRAS, L. This salt occurs native like ordi- nary nitre, and is chiefly imported into Eng- and from South America. It is largely em- iloyed as a manure, in the preparation of litric acid, and, recently, in the manufacture f fire-works, on account of the comparative lowness with which it burns. It is deliques- ent and very soluble in water. Phos'phlte of Soda. Syn. Common tei- lASIC PHOSPHATE OF SODA, RhOMBIC P. OF ., Tasteless pueg-ing- SALTf; Sod^ phos- >HAS (Ph. L. E. & D.), Sal mieabile pee- iATUMf, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. E.) Take ofpow~ hred bone ashes, 10 lb.; sulphuric acid, 44 fl. j'Z.; mix, add gradually of water, 6 pints, and ligest for 3 days, replacing the water which •vaporates; then add 6 pints of boiling water, j brain through linen, and wash the residue on 1 he filter with boiling water ; mix the liquors, ind, after defecation, decant and evaporate to ) pints; let the impurities again settle, and 'leutralize the clear fluid, heated to boiling, vith a solution of carbonate of soda in slight jxcess; crystals will be deposited as the iwlution cools, and by successively evaporating, lidding a little more soda to the mother-liquor ,111 it is feebly alkaline, and cooling, more crystals may be obtained; these must be kept in closed vessels. The formula of the Ph. D. is liearly similar. It is placed in the Materia j.VIedica of the Ph. L. 1 2. (Funcke.) To ground calcined bones, |iiflfused through water, add a little dilute sul- muric acid to saturate any carbonate of lime present; when effervescence ceases, dissolve |0he whole in nitric acid, q. s.; to this solution add as much sulphate of soda as the bone ash |ased, and distil the whole to recover the nitric iacid; the residuum is treated with water, and the resulting solution filtered, evaporated, and crystallized. Prop., 4-c. It forins very beautiful oblique rhombic prisms, which effloresce in the air, dissolve in about 4 parts of cold water and in 2 parts at 212° Fahr., and fuse when heated. As a medicine, it is mildly aperient, in doses of to 1 oz., or even more; and antacid in doses of 20 to 30 gr., frequently repeated. It has a purely saline taste, resembling that of culinary salt, and is commonly taken in broth or soup. Pur. Its solution “ turns turmeric slightly brown. What is thrown down by chloride of barium is white, and dissolves without effer- vescence in nitric acid. The precipitate thrown down by nitrate of silver is yellow, and is dissolved by the same acid. At a red heat 100 gr. give off 62-3 gr. of water. What is thrown down by nitrate of silver from the remaining salt, dissolved in water, is white.’^ (Ph. L.) “ 45 gr., dissolved in 2 fl. oz. of boiling water, and precipitated by a solution of 50 gr. of carbonate of lead in 1 fl. oz. of pyro- ligneous acid, still remain precipitable by a solution of acetate of lead.’^ (Ph. E.) Obs. The composition of the above salt is expressed by the formula 2NaO, HO, POj -j- 24HO. Two other tribasic phosphates are known, having respectively the formulae 3Na0,P05 -f 24HO, and NaO, 2HO, PO^ + 2HO; the first is sometimes called ‘ sub- phosphate,’ and the second ‘supeephos- phate’ or ‘ BIPHOSPHATE.’ There are also several metaphosphates and pyrophos- phates OF SODA. See Phosphoric Acid. Phosphate of Soda and Ammo"nia. See Mi- CEOCOSMIC Salt {page 911). Potas'sio-tar'trate of Soda. Syn. Tartrate OF POTASSA AND SODA, RoCHELLE SALT, SeIG- NETTE’S S., TaeTARIZED SODAf; SOD.® PO- TASSIO-TAETEAS (Ph. L.), SOD.E ET POTASS.® TAETEAS (Ph. E. & D.), Soda TAETAEIZATAf, L. Prep. (Ph. L. 1836.) Take of carbonate of soda, 12 oz.; boiling water, 2 quarts; dis- solve, and add, gradually, of powdered bitor- trate of potassa, 16 oz. (or q. s.); strain, evaporate to a pellicle, and set it aside to crys- tallize ; dry the resulting crystals, and evapo- rate the mother-liquor that it may yield more of them. The formulae of the other Colleges are nearly similar. Prop., Sfc. Large, transparent, hard, right rhombic prisms, often occurring in halves; slightly efflorescent; solubleTn 5 parts of w’ater at 60° Fahr. Its “solution neither changes the colour of litmus nor of turmeric. On the addition of sulphuric acid, bitartrate of potash is thrown dowm; on adding either nitrate of silver or chloride of barium nothing is thrown down, or only w'hat is redissolved by the addi- tion of water.” (Ph. L.) By heat it yields a mixture of the pure carbonates of potash and soda. Potassio-tartrate of soda is a mild and cool- ing laxative. Dose, i to 1 oz., largely diluted wuth w^ater. It forms the basis of the popular aperient called seidlitz powders. Sesquicar'bonate of Soda. See Carbonates OF Soda {above). Stan'nate of Soda. Prep. (Greenwood & Co.) Caustic soda, 22 lb., is heated to low- redness in an iron crucible, when nitrate of soda, 8 lb., and common salt, 4ilb., are added; 1