PHOSPHORUS. 1058 be most slowly raised at first, but afterwards , equably maintained in a state of bright igni-1 tion. After 3 or 4 hours of steady firing,! carbonic acid and sulphurous acid gases are! evolved in considerable abundance, provided | the materials had not been well dried in the i iron pot; then sulphuretted hydrogen makes its appearance, and next phosphuretted hy- drogen, which last should continue during the whole of the distillation.” “ The firing should be regulated by the escape of this remarkable gas, which ought to be at the rate of about two bubbles per second. If the discharge comes to be intercepted, it is to be ascribed j either to the temperature being too low, or to the retort getting cracked; and if, upon rais- j ing the heat sufficiently, no bubbles appear, it | is a proof that the apparatus has become de- fective, and that it is needless to continue the operation. We may infer that the process approaches its conclusion by the increasing slowness with which the gas is disengaged under a powerful heat; and when it ceases to come over we may cease firing, taking care to prevent reflux of water into the retort” (and j consequent explosion), “from condensation of its gaseous contents, by admitting air into it | through a recurved glass tube, or through the I tube of the copper adapter.” “The usual! period of the operation, upon the great scale, is from 24 to 30 hours.” (Ure.) Amor'phous Phosphorus. Syn, Red phos- PHOETJSj Phosphoeus puscds, P. eubee, L. This is phosphorus in that peculiar condition to which Berzelius has applied the term ‘ allo- tropic.^ The honour of its discovery is due to Dr. Schrotter, of Vienna. Prep. The ordinary phosphorus of commerce, rendered as dry as possible, is placed in a shallow vessel of hard and well-annealed Bohemian glass, fitted with a safety tube just dipping be- neath the surface of a little hot water con- tained in an adjacent vessel; heat is then applied by means of a metallic bath (a mix- ture of lead and tin), the temperature of which is gradually raised until it ranges between 464 and 482° Fahr.,and bubbles of gas escape from the end of the safety tube and catch fire as they come in contact with the air; this temperature is maintained until the amorphous condition is produced, the length of the expo- sure being regulated by a miniature operation with tubes conducted in the same bath; as soon as this point is reached, the apparatus is allowed to cool, and the amorphous phosphorus, which still contains some unconverted phos- phorus, detached from the glass; it is then | reduced to powder by careful trituration under ’ water, drained on a calico filter, and, whilst j still moist, spread thinly on shallow trays of! iron or lead ; in this state it is exposed, with frequent stirring, to heat in a chloride ofj calcium bath, at first gentle, and then gradu- { ally increased to its highest limit, and the heat! continued until no more luminous vapour es- capes ; the residuum on the trays is then I cooled, washed with water until this last ceasei to alfect test paper, and is, lastly, drained au; dried. To render it absolutely free from mi altered phosphorus, it may be washed wit hisulphuret of carbon. On t\iQ small scale, common phosphorus ma be converted into amorphous phosphorus b simply exposing it for 50 or 60 hours to temperature of about 473° Fahr,, in any suit able vessel from which the air is kept excludeil by a stream of carbonic acid, or any othe gas which is unable to act chemically on tb phosphorus. By keeping common phosphorus fused at high temperature, under the above condition; for fully 8 days, compact masses of amorphou phosphorus may be obtained. Prop., 8{c. A reddish-brown, infusible, in odorous, solid substance, which is recouvertc into ordinary phosphorus by simply exposing i to a heat a little above 500° Fahr. It is un altered by atmospheric air; is insoluble in bi sulphuret of carbon, alcohol, ether, or naphtha is non-luminous in the dark below about 3S0 Fahr.; and does not take fire at a lower tern perature than that necessary for its reconver sion into the common or crystalline form. Tbi sp. gr. ranges between 2’089 to 2T07, accord ing to the method of preparing it. Its pro perties render it an admirable substitute fo the common phosphorus in the compositioi for tipping matches, both as regards securit\ from spontaneous ignition and the health o the manufacturers ; but the anticipations tbai it would be thus generally applied, owing t' its high price, have not yet been realised.^ Bro'mides of Phosphorus. Bromine unite! with phosphorus, forming coinpounds closel)^ corresponding in properties and constitutior' with the CHLOEIDES. They have not beer ' studied. Chlo”rides of Phosphorus. Two of tbesi are known, besides an oxichloride :— Prep. 1. (Teechloeide, Ciiloeide, FeO' TOCHLOEIDE.) By gently heating phosphorm in excess, in dry chlorine gas; or by passin|. the vapour of phosphorus through a stratum o: powdered corrosive sublimate, strongly heatec in a glass tube. It is limpid, colourless, higbb fetid, fumes in the air, and is slowly resolvec by water into pnosPHOEors acid and hydbO' CHLOEIC ACID. Sp. gT. 1*45. 2. (Pentachloeide, Peechloeide.) Ih the spontaneous combustion of phosphorus in an excess of dry chlorine ; or by passing stream of dry chlorine into the liquid terchlo ride. By the first method it is obtained as i white crystalline sublimate; by the second, a a solid crystalline mass. It is volatile; watti resolves it in phosphoeic acid and hydko CHLOEIC ACID. 3. (OxiCHLOEiDE.) By heating peniachlo ride of phosphorus with a quantity of water insufiicient to convert it into phosphoeic acip 1 The SAFETY MATCHES, noticed at page 889, are ai ingenious application of the aniorplious phosphorus.