47 AFFINITY. i; volatility of the ammoniacal salt. Again, com- || bination frequently takes place between sub- (I stances only whilst they are in the nascent i| state, which, under other circiimstances, can- !! not be effected. Such changes occur daring ; putrefaction, and during the destructive dis- ! tillation of organic matters by heat. The common results of ‘ chemical attraction,^ I or ' affinity,' are change of form, density, and li properties. “ We observe:—1. Solids forming j LIQUIDS (ice and salt):—2. Solids forming i: GASES (explosion of gunpowder) :—3. A solid I and a liquid producing a solid (lime and water): I —4. A solid and a liquid producing a liquid 1 (all common cases of solution) :—^.Liquids pro- ji ducing solids (solution of carbonate of potassa I mixed with muriate of lime) ;—6. Liquids i producing gases (alcohol and nitric acid):—7. Gases producing solids (ammonia and muriatic acid):—8. Gases producing LIQUIDS (chlorine I and olefiant gas.)” Again, almost all ‘gaseous ; compounds’ occupy less bulk than that of their } constituent gases. The same applies to many j liquids when mixed (oil of vitriol and water, t! alcohol and water, &c.). Sometimes heat is evolved {ex. as last); whilst some harmless • bodies produce active compounds, and the ^ reverse. Thus oil of vitriol is formed of ‘ oxy- ' gen,’ ‘ sulphur,’ and ‘ water;’ and inert sul- , phate of potassa, of ‘ oil of vitriol’ and ‘ caustic I potash.’ Hence “ it is utterly impossible, by fj any priori reasoning, to determine what will be j| the consequences of chemical combination j use- <1 less elements produce useful compounds, and use- less compounds yield useful elements J’ (Brande.) The following Tables of ‘chemical affinity’ ' exhibit the order of precedence in attractive I force of the various substances for each other, [ for the circumstances under which the experi- I ments on which they were founded were made, and subject to the various conditions which il modify ‘ elective attraction,’ as already noticed, j An intimate acquaintance with the order in I which decompositions take place among com- )i pounds, is of vast importance to the chemical ij manufacturer, and, in fact, forms the ground- 1 work of operative chemistry. A knowledge j “ of the elective affinities of bodies, simple and ;j compound, imparts to its possessor an irresis- ii tible power over the unions and disunions of ij the elements, which he can exercise with cer- li tainty in effecting innumerable transformations li in the arts.” (Ure.) 1. Table of Simple Affinity, drawn up from the researches of Geoffrey, Bergmann, Vauque- / lin, Fourcroy, Berthollet, and others, and ar- I ranged in alphabetical order expressly for this j work. I Obs. The force of attraction between the I substance named at the commencement of each paragraph, and those which follow it, decreases in the oi'der in which the latter are printed. Acetic acid. Baryta; Potassa; Soda; Strontia; Lime; Magnesia ; Ammonia; Me- j tallic oxides; Glucina; Alumina; Zirconia. Alcohol. Water; Ether; Volatile oils; Alkaline sulphurets. Alumina. Acids—Sulphuric, Nitric, Hydro- chloric, Oxalic, Arsenic, Fluoric, Tartaric, Succinic, Mucic, Citric, Phosphoric, Lactic, Benzoic, Acetic, Boracic, Sulphurous, Ni- trous, Carbonic, Hydrocyanic. Ammonia. Acids—Sulphuric, Nitric, Hydro- chloric, Phosphoric, Fluoric, Oxalic, Tartaric, Arsenic, Succinic, Citric, Lactic, Benzoic, Sulphurous, Acetic, Mucic, Boracic, Nitrous, Carbonic, Hydrocyanic; Oil; Water; Sul- phur. AesenIc Acid. The same as Fluoric Acid, omitting Silica. Baeyta. Acids—Sulphuric, Oxalic, Succinic, Fluoric, Phosphoric, Mucic, Nitric, Hydro- chloric, Suberic, Citric, Tartaric, Arsenic, Lactic, Benzoic, Acetic, Boracic, Sulphurous, Nitrous, Carbonic, Hydrocyanic; Sulphur; Phosphorus; Water; Fixed Oils. Benzoic Acid. White oxide of arsenic; Po- tassa ; Soda; Ammonia; Baryta; Lime ; Magnesia; Alumina. Boeacic Acid. The same as Fluoric Acid, omit- ting Silica, and adding Water and Alc<ffiol. Camphoeic Acid. Lime; Potassa; Soda; Baryta; Ammonia; Alumina; Magnesia. Caebon. Oxygen ; Iron; Hydrogen. Caebonic Acid. Baryta; Strontia; Lime; Potassa; Soda; Magnesia; Ammonia; Glucina; Zirconia; Metallic oxides. CiTEic Acid. Same as Oxalic acid, excepting that Zirconia should be inserted after Alu- mina. Fixed Oils. Lime ; Baryta ; Potassa ; Soda; Magnesia; Oxide of Mercury; Metallic oxides; Alumina. Fluoeic Acid. Lime; Baryta; Strontia; Magnesia; Potassa; Soda; Ammonia; Glu- cina; Alumina; Zirconia; Silica. Hydeochloeic Acid. The same as Nitric acid, excepting that Ammonia should stand above Magnesia. Hydeocyanic Acid. Baryta; Strontia; Po- tassa; Soda; Lime; Magnesia; Ammonia. Hydeogen. Oxygen; Sulphur; Carbon; Phosphorus; Nitrogen. Lactic Acid. The same as Acetic acid. Lime. Acids—Oxalic, Sulphuric, Tartaric, Succinic, Phosphoric, Mucic, Nitric, Hydro- chloric, Suberic, Fluoric, Arsenic, Lactic, Citric, Malic, Benzoic, Acetic, Boracic, Sul- phurous, Nitrous, Carbonic, Hydrocyanic; Sulphur; Phosphorus; Water; FLxed oils. Magnesia. Acids—Oxalic, Phosphoric, Sul- phuric, Fluoric, Arsenic, Mucic, Succinic, Nitric, Hydrochloric, Tartaric, Citric, Malic, Lactic, Benzoic, Acetic, Boracic, Sul- phurous, Nitrous, Carbonic, Hydrocyanic; Sulphur. Niteic Acid. Baryta; Potassa; Soda; Stron- tia ; Lime; Magnesia ; Ammonia; Glucina; Alumina; Zirconia; Metallic oxides. Niteogen. Oxygen; Sulphur; Phosphorus; Hydrogen.