ALCOHOLOMETRY. 6i the government authorities, at various times, to investigate the subject. Towards the end of the last century. Sir C. Blagden instituted an extensive series of experiments to determine the real specific gravities of different mixtures of alcohol and water. {‘‘Phil. Trans.,” VIQO.) The data thus furnished have since been made the basis of the calculations for the purposes of the Customs and Excise. More recently a committee of the Royal Society, at the re- quest of the Lords of the Treasury, examined into the accuracy of the Tables, and the con- struction and application of the instrument (Sykes’ ‘ Hydeometer’) now used by the Revenue officers, on which they reported fa- vourably, and declared that they were suffi- ciently perfect for all practical and scientific purposes. The errors introduced into calcula- tions of the strength of spirits, by these Tables, were found to be quite unimportant in practice; and did not, in any one instance, amount to unity in the fourth place of deci- mals. This method adopts the sp. gr. as the test of the strength of spirit, and is founded on the fact that alcohol is considerably lighter than water, and that (with proper corrections for condensation and temperature) the sp. gr. regularly increases, or decreases, according to the relative proportions in which the two are mixed. Several other methods of alcoholometry have been proposed, founded upon—^the variations in temperature of the vapour of alcohol of different strengths—the heat evolved by its admixture with water—its dilatation by heat —the tension of its vapour—the insolubility of carbonate of potassa in alcohol—its volatility, boiling point, &c. &c.; the more important and useful of which are noticed further on. The method adopted by the Boards of Inland Revenue and Customs is, however, the one which is almost exclusively employed in trade and com- merce in England, not only on account of its superior simplicity and correctness, but for the purpose of the results exactly coinciding with the surveys of these authorities. Methods of Alcoholometry :— 1. Methods based on the Specific Gravity— by ‘ VOLUME ’:— a. Revenue System.—Descr. of Instr. The engr. below represents Sykes’ Hydrometer, as made by Mr. Bate, under the directions of the Commissioners of ‘ Inland Revenue ’ and ‘ Customs.’ It consists of a spherical ball or float, with an upper and lower stem; and is made of brass, which (in the more expensive instruments) is usually coated with gold, to prevent corrosion from damp and the acidity so generally present in spirituous liquors. The upper stem {A) is about 4 inches long, and is divided into 10 parts, each of which contains 5 subdivisions. There are 9 moveable weights of the form {b'), of different sizes, numbered respec- tively)10,20, 30, &c., to 90; each of which repre- sents so many of the principal divisions of the stem as its number indicates. In use, one of these weights is slipped on to the ‘ lower stems;’ and thus, by means of them, the instrument acquires a range of above 500 divisions, or degrees, extending from the Revenue ‘ stand- ard alcohol ’ (sp. gr., ‘825) to ‘ water.’ It is j so formed as to give the sp. gr. with almost perfect accuracy, at 62° Fahr. When loaded with the weight 60 it sinks in proof spirit ta i the line marked (P) on the narrow edge of the stem, at 51° Fahr.; and, by further placing the square weight or cap^ (also supplied with the instr.) on the top of the ^ upper stem,’ it | floats exactly at the same point in distilled \ water. The whole is fitted up in a neat ma- j hogany case, accompanied with a thermometer, I and a book of Tables containing corrections | for temperature, &c.—Process. A glass-tube of the form of fig. {B) is filled to about the mark {a) with the sample for examination; the thermometer is then placed in the liquor and stirred about for 2 or 3 minutes (observing not to breathe upon the glass nor hold it in the hand), when it is withdrawn, and the tempera- ture noted. The hydrometer is next immersed in a similar manner, and gently pressed down in the liquor to the (0) on the stem with the finger; it having been previously loaded with any one of the nine weights that will cause it to float with the surface of the spirit at some point on the graduated part of the scale. The indication at the point cut by the surface of the liquor, as seen from below, added to the number of the weight with which the float is loaded, gives a number which must be sought in the book of Tables which is always sold with the instrument. In this book, at the page headed “ Temperature as observed by the Thermometerf and against the part of the column appropriated to the given indication (‘ weight’), will be found the strength per cent., expressed in degrees over or under proof, by ‘VOLUME,’ in whole numbers and decimal parts. In reading off the indication, to en- sure accuracy, it is necessary to allow for the convexity of the liquor at the part where it immediately rests against the stem. ’ This weight is equal to l-12th part of that of the in- strument when loaded with weiglit 60; and hence shews the difference between the gravity of proof spirit and water, as explained hereafter.