KREATINE—LABELS. 814 KAPNOMOE, picamae), which are obtain- ed at the same time with the kreasote during the dry distillation of organic sub- stances. Kreasote is “devoid of colour, has a pecu- liar odour, and is soluble in acetic acid. When it is dropped on bibulous paper, and a boiling heat is applied for a short time, it entirely es- capes, leaving no transparent stain.” (Ph. L.) “ Entirely and easily soluble in its own weight of acetic acid.” (Ph. E.) Sp. gr. 1-046 (Ph. L.), 1-066 (Ph. E. & D.). The density and boiling-point of absolutely pure kreasote is given above. Uses. Kreasote has been recommended in several diseases of the organs of digestion and respiration, in rheumatism, gout, torpid ner- vous fever, spasms, diabetes, tape-worm, &c. ; but its use has not, in general, been attended with satisfactory results. It is given in the form of pills, emulsion, or an ethereal or spi- rituous solution. Externally, it has been em- ployed in various chronic diseases of the skin, sores of different kinds, mortifications, scalds, burns, wounds (as a styptic), caries of the teeth, &c. j mostly in the form of an aqueous solution (1 to 80); or mixed with lard (5 drops to 1 dr.), as an ointment; dissolved in rectified spirit, it forms a useful and a popular remedy for toothache arising from decay or rottenness. In the arts, kreasote is extensively employed to preserve animal substances, either by wash- ing it over them or by immersing them in its aqueous solution. A few drops in a saucer, or on a piece of spongy paper, if placed in a larder, will effectually drive away insects, and make the meat keep several days longer than it otherwise would. A small quantity added to brine or vinegar is commonly employed to im- part a smoky flavour to meat and fish, and its solution in acetic acid is used to give the fla- vour of whiskey to malt spirit. See Caebolic Acid. KRE'ATIKE. Syn. Ceeatine. A crys- tallizable substance obtained from the juice of the muscular fibre of animals. It was first observed by Chevreul, but has recently been carefully studied by Liebig. Prep. (Liebig.) Lean flesh is reduced to shreds, and then exhausted with successive portions of cold water, employing pressure; the mixed liquid is heated to coagulate the albumen and colouring matter of the blood, and is then strained through a cloth; pure baryta water is next added as long as a preci- pitate forms, the liquid is filtered, and the fil- trate is gently evaporated to the consistence of a syrup; after repose for some days in a warm situation, crystals of kreatine are deposited; these are purified by redissolving them in water, agitating the solution with animal char- coal, and evaporating, &c., so that crystals may form. Prop., ^c. Brilliant, colourless, prismatic crystals; readily soluble in boiling water, sparingly so in cold water and in alcohol; the | aqueous solution is neutral, bitter tasted, and soon putrefies. KREATINTNE. This substance exists in small quantities, both in the juice of flesh and in conjunction with kreatine in urine. It is also produced by the action of the stronger acids on kreatine. It forms colourless prismatic crystals, which are soluble in water, and the solution has a strongly alkaline reaction. It is a powerful organic base, and produces erys- tallizable salts with the acids. KRE'NIC ACID. See Ceenic Acid. KRYSTAL'LINE. The name originally ap- plied by Unverdorben to aniline. KUSTITIEN’S METAL. Prep. Take of malleable iron, 3 parts; beat it to whiteness, and add of antimony, 1 part; Molucca tin, 72 parts; mix under charcoal, and cool. Used to coat iron and other metals with a surface of tin; it polishes without a blue tint, is hard, and has the advantage of being free from lead and arsenic. KYANTZING-. A method of preserving wood and cordage from decay, long known and practised, but patented by Mr. Kyan, a few ymars since. It consists in immersing the bodies in a solution of cori'osive sublimate, 1 part, and water, 50 or 60 parts, either under strong pressure or the contrary, as the urgency of the case or the dimensions of the bodies operated on may require. See Det Rot. KY'ANOL. A substance obtained from coal- tar oil, and at first thought to be an indepen- dent principle, but since shown to be identical with ANILINE. LABARRAQUE’S FLUID. See Solution OF Chloeide of Soda. LAB'DANUM. Syn. Ladanum. An odo- rous, resinous substance found on the leaves ® and twigs of the Cystus creticus, a plant growing in the island of Candia and in Syria. It was formerly much used for making stimu- lating plasters. The following compound is often vended for it:— Facti"tious Labdanum. Prep. From gum anime, resin, Venetian turpentine, and sand, of each, 6 parts; Spanish juice and gum arabic, of each (di?s)lved in a little water), 3 parts; Canada balsam, 2 parts; ivory black, 1 part; balsam of Peru, q. s. to give a faint odour. LA'BELS capable of resisting the action of OILS, SPIEITS, WATEE, SYEUPS, and DILUTE ACIDS, may be obtained as follows:—Lay a coat of strained white of egg over the label (an ordinary paper one), and immediately put the vessel into the upper portion of a common steam-pan, or otherwise expose it to a gentle heat till 'the albumen coagulates and turns opaque, then take it out and dry it before the fire, or in an oven, at a heat of about 212® Fahr.; the opaque white film will then become hard and transparent. The labels on bottles containing steong acids or alkaline so- lutions should be either etched upon the