423 CHARGES—CHEESE. \ i Uses, 8cc. These are numerous and varied. H Charcoal is extensively employed as a, fuel ; . and in metallurgy for tempering metals, ; making steel, kc.; reduced to powder, it is ! used to surround vessels and bodies required to retain their heat for some time ; a coating 1 of charcoal, formed on piles and stakes of wood, ; by charring them, promotes their preservation, I by shielding them from air and moisture; I fresh-burnt charcoal (in powder) restores i tainted meat and putrid water, decolours vegetable solutions, deodorizes fetid substances, and withdraws lime from syrups filtered I through it. I In medicine, charcoal is principally used as i an antiseptic or disinfectant, either in the form of powder or made into a poultice. It has been given internally in dyspepsia, diarrhoea, I dysentery, heartburn, agues, constipation, sick- I ness of pregnancy, and various other diseases, with advantage. As a prophylactic of cholera and fevers it is invaluable and superior to all other substances. It forms the best tooth powder known, as it both whitens the teeth and deodorizes the breath. “ In the French edition of Hahnemann’s ‘Materia Medica’ I {par Jourdan; Paris, 1834), no less than 35 j pages are occupied with the enumeration of I the symptoms produced by one millionth of a \ grain of this substance.” (Pereira.) This is j doubtless absurd; but, on the other hand, the medical, and especially the prophylactic powers I of charcoal, have been unjustly neglected in I this country. Dose. 10 gr. to a teaspoonful, or more ad libitum. An ointment made with I lard and charcoal has been successfully em- ployed in some skin diseases. In all cases, to be useful, the charcoal must be both fresh- I burnt and fresh-powdered, and carefully pre- served, out of contact with the air, until about ™ to be administered. Fresh carbonized bread forms an excellent charcoal, both for a pro- phylactic and a tooth powder. Charcoal varies in its qualities according to j / the substance from which it is prepared; that of the soft woods {willow or alder) is best for crayons and gunpowder; that of the hard woods for fuel, and for blowpipe supports. That made by a low-red heat, not exceeding cherry I red, and which has a dull surface, is the most valuable. If the heat is carried much beyond this point, the charcoal acquires a brilliant surface, and deteriorates in quality. Chesnut charcoal is preferred by smiths for forging, as it not only burns slowly, but deadens as soon as the blast ceases. Areca-nut charcoal I is preferred as a dentifrice; but, unfortunately, ! the willow charcoal or box-wood charcoal is usually substituted for it by shopkeepers. I See Black Pigments, Decoloeation, Gun- I PowDEE, Poultice, Powdee, Respieatoe, j &c. i Ant., 8fc. Poisoning or suffocation, resulting I from respiring the fumes of burning charcoal, ' has been already alluded to, and the treat- ! ment briefly pointed out. (See Caebonic Acid and Oxide.) It may be further added, that the most simple excitant in this species of asphyxia, is the passage into the nasal fossae of a feather dipped in common vinegar. It is the means which has always first caused the muscular contractions indicating revival. (Pelletan.) Gilders, jewellers, copper-plate printers, braziers, &c., who use small, open fires of burning charcoal, should endeavour to create a draught of air to carry ofl" the fumes, and should take care to keep to “ windward,” by which means they will avoid them. Milk of lime and quicklime have been employed to absorb the gas, but their action must neces- sarily be very limited. The only certain remedy is thorough ventilation. This should be adopted, even at slight personal inconve- nience in other respects. CHAR'GES (for Cattle). See Veteeinaey Medicine. CHAR'RING (Surface). The operation by which the surface of wood is carbonized, to prevent its decay from exposure to air and moisture. Stakes and piles are generally thus treated before they are driven into the ground. Casks are charred on the inside by coopers when they are intended to hold water. In both these cases the fire is commonly applied directly to the wood. A new method has, however, been lately employed with apparent success. This consists in washing the wood with the strongest oil of vitriol. In this way, not only the outer surface, but the surface of all the cracks and holes, gets carbonized, which is not the case when heat is employed. It succeeds admirably with musty casks and vats. CHEESE. Syn. Ca'seum, Ca'seus, L. The curd of milk compressed into a solid mass. That of commerce is usually salted and dried, and in some varieties it is also coloured and flavoured. The process of cheese-making is one which is eminently interesting and scientific, and which, in every gradation, depends on princi- ples which chemistry has developed and illus- trated. When a vegetable or mineral acid is added to milk, and heat applied, a coagulum is formed, which, when separated from the liquid portion, constitutes cheese. Neutral salts, earthy and metallic salts, sugar, and gum Arabic, as well as some other substances, also produce the same effect; but that which answers the purpose best, and which is almost exclusively used by dairy farmers, is rennet, or the mucous membrane of the last stomach of the calf. Alkalies dissolve this curd at a boiling heat, and acids again precipitate it. The solubility of cheese in milk is occasioned by the presence of alkaline phosphates and of free alkalies. In fresh milk these substances may be readily detected by the property it possesses of restoring the colour of reddened litmus paper. The addition of an acid neu- tralizes the alkali, and so precipitates the curd in an insoluble state. The philosophy