CHLOROFORM. 434 from the water, agitate it with a little sul- phuric acid, and, lastly, rectify it from car- bonate of baryta. 2. (Ph. L.) Chlorinated lime, 4 lb.;' water, 10 pints; rectified spirit, \ pint; proceed as last, using a spacious retort that the mixture will only l-3rd fill, and the heat of a sand bath. “ When ebullition commences remove the fire as quickly as possible, lest the retort be broken by the suddenly increased heat,” and “ let the solution distil into a receiver as long as there is nothing which subsides, the fire being restored if it be at all needed. Add to the distilled liquid four times as much water, and shake the whole well together;” next cautiously separate the heavier part as soon as it has subsided, and to this add of chloride of calcium, broken into fragments, 1 dr.; and shake occasionally during an hour; finally let the fluid again distil from a glass retort into a glass receiver.” 3. (Ph. D.) Quicklime, 5 lb., (slaked with) boiling water, 1 quart, is put into a sheet iron or copper still, with chlorinated lime, 10 lb.; water, 4 gall., previously mixed with rectified spirit, 2h fi. oz., and raised to the temperature of 100 Fahr., is then added; heat is now applied, but withdrawn immediately the distil- lation commences. The lower stratum of the distilled product, the bulk of which need not exceed a quart, is next agitated, twice in suc- cession, with an equal volume of distilled water, and then in a separate bottle with half its volume of pure sulphuric acid. Lastly, it is shaken in a matrass with peroxide of manga- nese, in fine powder, ^ oz.; and rectified from off this at a very gentle heat. 4. Hydrate of lime, 1 part, is suspended in cold water, 24 parts, and chlorine passed through the mixture until nearly the whole of the lime is dissolved; hydrate of lime, q. s. just to restore the alkaline reaction of the liquid, is then added; and, afterwards, recti- fied spirit of wine or wood spirit, 1 part, is mixed in; the whole, after repose for 24 hours in a covered vessel, is cautiously distilled as before, Obs. The plan of purifying by agitation with sulphuric acid adopted by Dumas (No. 1), and ordered in Ph. D. (No. 3), is decidedly unsafe and unnecessary. The only safe way known of purifying chloroform consists in agitation with pure water and redistillation (Royle). Prop., 8fc. Liquid; transparent; colour- less; odour, fragrant, ethereal, and apple-like; taste, ethereal, sweetish, but slightly acrid; soluble in 2000 parts of water; mixes in all proportions with alcohol and ether; dissolves (readily) bromine, camphor, caoutchouc, gutta percha, iodine, oils, resins, wax, and several other like substances; boils at 141’8° Fahr.; kindles with difficulty; burns with a greenish flame; and communicates a dull, smoky-yellow colour to the flame of alcohol. Sp. gr. 1*48 (1*497, Miller); density of vapour, 4*2. The vapour has the remarkable property of ren- dering a person breathing it temporarily in- sensible to pain. ' Pur. Chloroform is frequently adulterated with alcohol and ether; and, owing to careless manipulation, is also sometimes contaminated with other substances, as chloral, hydrochloric acid, and free chlorine. When pure, it is " free from colour, and of a pleasant odour. Sp. gr. not less than 1*48. It is not perfectly soluble in water; and does not turn the colour of litmus red. Rubbed on the skin, it quickly evaporates, scarcely leaving any odour.” (Ph. L.) Dropped into water, it falls to the bottom and remains bright and limpid; but if it contain alcohol the surface of the drop becomes opaline. If the same ex- periment be made with diluted sulphuric acid, sp. gr. 1*44, the drop of pure chloroform will fall to the bottom; but that which contains spirit, if not shaken, will float or remain sus- pended in the acid solution. Wken contami- nated with heavy hydrocarbon oils, a drop evaporated from the palm of the hand leaves behind a strong smell. Hydrochloric acid and free chlorine are detected by the ordinary tests. Uses, Action, ^c. Chloroform is anodyne, antispasmodic, sedative, stimulant, and anaes- thetic. In small doses (5 to 12 or 15 drops, in water, mixed with a little syrup or mucilage), it is employed in spasmodic disorders, and as a stimulant and diaphoretic. It is now chiefly used as an anaesthetic to produce insensibility to pain during surgical operations. The dose for inhalation is 1 fl. dr., which is repeated, in a few minutes, if no effect is produ(;ed, until 3 fl. dr. have been thus exhibited ; the effects being carefully watched, and the source of the chloroform vapour removed as soon as a suffi- j cient degree of anaesthesia is produced, or any ) unpleasant symptoms develop themselves. Chloroform in large doses depresses the hearCs action, and causes profound coma, and death. It is therefore dangerous in all cases complicated with diseases of the heart or brain, or any visceral affections of a congestive character. In other cases, atmospheric air loaded with 4g or 5g of chloroform vapour, may he inhaled with perfect safety until insensibility to pain comes on. When it contains more than 7§ of the vapour, it is ab- solutely dangerous, a fact to which the number of deaths in our hospitals during the last few years bear ample testimony. Dr. Simpson has used as much as “8 fl. oz. in thirteen hours, in a case of labour.” Such a dangerous proceeding, however, deserves the severest censure. The usual mode of administering chloroform is by means of an inhaler made for the pur- pose, but a much simpler and safer plan is, to twist a handkerchief or a napkin into the ‘ form of a bird’s nest, on the inner surface of j which the fluid is to be sprinkled before apply- j ing it over the mouth and nose.