965 OILS (MINERAL). LEUM was brought from Rangoon, and puri- fied by distillation, so as to produce oils very similar to the coal products. During the last ' few years rich sources of petroleum have been ( discovered in Canada and the North American : States, and at the present vast quantities of the native liquid are imported into this country from those sources. An Act of Parliament was passed in 1862, to prevent the storage, without a license, of more than 40 gallons of petroleum, or any product thereof that gives off inflammable vapours under 100° Fahr, This Act has not had the effect intended, and it is notorious that petroleum and its products I are recklessly stored in large quantities where their accidental ignition would produce terri- ble effects. It is estimated that 20,000,000 gallons of petroleum, most of it in the crude and therefore dangerous condition, were brought to this country in 1863. Tests, precautions. As there is little de- mand as yet for the more volatile and dangerous constituents of petroleum, unprincipled dealers frequently allow them to remain in the oils sold for burning. In consequence of this criminal recklessness, many frightful accidents have taken place. To ascertain the character , for safety possessed by any oil is therefore a I very important matter. The Sanitary Com- t mission of the ^ Lancet ’ took as the limit of safety an oil that gave off inflammable vapour when heated to 130° Fahr., and this has been I generally accepted by dealers. If an oil gives loff inflammable vapours before being heated up to 130°, it is considered unsafe for domestic use. I 1. The plan for testing this, recommended [in the ‘ Lancet,’ is to heat a portion of the [suspected oil in a gallipot placed in boiling [water, ascertaining by a thermometer sus- pended in the oil the temperature at which it [will take fire on the surface when a lighted wax vesta is applied to it. This is a trouble- some and dangerous process, and has little practical value. 2. A rough and ready method of testing the inflammability of a sample is to pour a little out on a dry flat board, and try whether it can be ignited readily by a lighted paper. If it catches fire like turpentine or brandy, the oil is dangerous. 3. The following plan, proposed by Mr. Tegetmeier, requires no scientific knowledge, and no apparatus but what is to be found in every house, while it is sufficiently accurate for all practical purposes:— Take an earthenware dish, holding about half a pint (a breakfast cup will do), fill the cup full from a kettle of boiling water, pour this into an earthenware quart jug, then fill the same cup again with boiling water from the kettle, and pour it also into the quart jug, then fill the cup with cold water, put it into the jug, shake the jug to mix the hot and cold water, then pour the tepid water from the jug into the cup till the cup is half full, then pour about a table-spoonful of the oil to be tested on the tepid water in the cup, take the oil-can with the oil out of the room, then touch the surface of the oil in the cup with a lighted splinter of wood, or a match without sulphur. If the match causes a flash of flame to appear on the surface of the oil, the oil is below the standard of safety, and should not be used; if no flame appears, the oil is up to the standard. We may mention that in this trial no time should be lost after pouring the boiling water from the kettle, as the water may get too cold, but the w^hole may be gone through in from two to three minutes. It is well to have a saucer at hand, and if the oil should be a bad oil and ignite with the match, place the saucer on the mouth of the cup, and the flame is extinguished. This trial should be done in daylight, and at a distance from a fire, and the directions must be followed exactly in the order as given above. 4. Provided that the oils to be examined have been produced by careful fractional dis- tillation, their relative volatility, as indicated by their specific gravity, shows to a great extent the facility with which they ignite. The lightest oils are more volatile and more easily inflamed than those which are heavier. Oils much under ’800 inflame directly a lighted match is thrown into them, whereas oils at about •815 to -823 (if unmixed products) can- not be set on fire in this manner. The specific gravity test cannot, however, be depended on to determine the inflaming point of any com- mercial oil. A heavy oil, badly rectified, may contain a proportion of very volatile vapour, and have a low inflaming-point; whereas a much lighter oil may be perfectly safe, from its having the more volatile portions carefully removed. To prevent accidents with paraffin or petro- leum lamps, the following precautions ought to be observed;— The lamps should be filled and trimmed by daylight. They should never be overfilled; the oil should not be allowed to come into contact with the metal work of the burner. Any portion of oil spilled on the outside of the lamp should be carefully wiped away. When not in use, the wick should be turned down into the wick-holder. *** The principal products noticed below rank high among the numerous varieties of mineral oil now in the market, but there are doubtless many others equally good and safe. Their properties are described in accordance with the results obtained by Mr. W. B. Tegetmeier, who has devoted much time to the examination of the mineral oils;— Al'bertite Oil. From ‘ Albertite,’ a lustrous black mineral found in New Brunswick. A sample was shown in the Colonial Department of tlie International Exhibition of 1862, but the oil has not yet appeared in the English market.