658 FLUID CAMPHOR—FLUX. Violet. Liquid archil, mixed with a little j salt of tartar. \ Yellow. Tincture of turmeric. The above colours are usually applied to the ! petals with the finger. j Flowers. Syn. Floees, L. Among che~ \ mists, this term is applied to various pulveru- ' lent substances obtained by sublimation, as flowers of antimony, benzoin, zinc, sulphur, &c. The term has been discarded from modern chemical nomenclature, but is still commonly employed in familiar language and trade. FLUID CAM'PHOR. Prep. (Sir J. Murray.) From camphor (in powder), 1 dr.; freshly precipitated carbonate of magnesia, 2 dr.; cold distilled water, 1 pint; the solution is effected by forcing in carbonic acid gas under pressure. Each fl. oz. contains 3 gr. of camphor, and 6 gr. of carbonate of magnesia. See Essence of Camphoe. FLUID MAGHE'SIA. Syn. Liqeoe mag- NESIiE CAEBONATIS, L. AI. BICAEBONATIS, L. The preparations sold under this name are mere solutions of freshly precipitated carbonate of magnesia in water, formed by means of carbonic acid gas, under powerful pressure, and long agi- tation. Those best known are Sir J. Murray’s and Mr. Dinneford’s, each fl. oz. of which are said to contain about 17^ gr. of the carbonate, but their actual richness in the latter seldom exceeds 10 or 12 gr., and by the time they reach the consumer is often as low as 5 or 6 gr. Recently j^recijjitated carbonate of mag- nesia placed in a bottle or other suitable vessel, which is then filled by means of a soda-icater apparatus with water fully charged with car- bonic acid gas, readily dissolves on slight and cautious agitation, and the aerated water be- comes saturated with magnesia. A scruple of carbonate of magnesia put into a soda-water bottle, and thus treated, is all taken up in from 20 minutes to half an hour, and the beverage continues beautifully clear. FLUM'MERY. A species of thick hasty- pudding, made with oatmeal or rice, flavoured with milk, cream, almonds, orange flowers, lemons, &c., according to fancy. Prep. 1. (Dutch flumaieey.) From blanc- mange and eggs, flavoured with lemon peel and sweetened with sugar. 2. (Feench flummeet.) From equal parts of blancmange and cream, sweetened, and fla- voured. The above are poured into forms, and served cold, to eat with wine, spirit, cider, &c. 3. (A. T. Thomson.) Take oatmeal or groats, 1 quart; rub it for a considerable time with hot water, 2 quarts; and let the mixture stand until it becomes sour; then add another quart of hot water, and strain through a hair sieve. Let stand till a white sediment is deposited, decant the fluid portion, and wash the sedi- ment with cold water. This is now to be boiled with fresh water, until it forms a mucilage, stirring the whole time. A light and nutritious food, during early convales- cence. FLU0B0"RIC ACID. Syn. Teefluoeide of BOEON. A peculiar gaseous compound of fluo- rine and boron, discovered by Gay-Lussac and Thenard. Prep. A mixtm*e of vitrified boracic acid, : 1 part, fluor spar, 2 parts, and oil of vitriol, ' 12 parts, is exposed to heat in a leaden retort. The gas evolved is collected in glass jars stand- i ing over mercury. ' Prop., ^’c. Colourless; transparent; very heavy; fumes in the air; rapidly absorbed by I water. ( FLUOEHY'DRIC ACID. See Hydeoflu- OEIC ACID. FLU'OFwIDES. See Fluoeine. FLU'ORINS. Syn. Fluoeiniuat, L. The I element which unites with hydrogen to form hydrofluoric acid. It has never been isolated in a state fit for examination; its properties are consequently in great measure unknown; from the observations made it is presumed to be gaseous, and to possess colour like chlorine, i With the metals this element forms fluoeiles. The well-known mineral FLUOE-SPAE is a ‘ fluoride of calcium.’ FLUX. Syn. Fluxus, Fluoe, L. In medicine, a term formerly applied to several diseases attended with a copious discharge, as diarrhma (flux), dysentery (bloody flux), English cholera (bilious flux), fluor albiis I (white flux), &c. These terms are still I current among the vulgar. I Flux. In metallurgy, &c., a term applied to various substances of easy fusibility, which are added to others which are more refractory, to ' promote their fusion. Prep. 1. (Black flux.) Nitre, 1 part; crude tartar or cream of tartar, 2 parts; nii.x, and deflagrate, by small quantities at a time, | in a crucible, heated to dull redness, 'i'he I product consists of carbonate of potassa, mi.\cd with charcoal in a finely divided state. Used for smelting metallic ores. It exercises a re- : ducing action, as well as promotes the fusion. It must be kept in a dry corked bottle. ! 2. (Cheistison’s flux.) Carbonate rf 1 soda (cryst.), 8 parts; charcoal (in fine powder), j 1 part; heat the mixture gradually to redness. I For reducing arsenic. ! 3. (COENISH EEDUCING FLUX.) Crude tor- j tar, 10 parts; nitre, 4- parts; borax, 3 parts; I triturate together. I 4. ( COENISH EEFIXING FLUX, WHITE FLUX.) Crude tartar and nitre, equal parts, ; deflagrated together. See Black flux. I 5. (Ceude flux.) Same as black flux, i omitting the deflagration. Reducing. ' 6. (Feesenius’s flux.) Carbonate of pa- ; tassa (dry), 3 parts; cyanide of potassium, 1 I part. For the arsenical compounds. I 7. (Liebig’s flux.) Carbonate of soda j (dry) and cyanide of potassium, equal parts. As the last. See Aesenious Acid. | i 8. (Moeyeau’s eeductxg flux.) Pow- ' \ dered flass (free from lead), 8 parts; calcined j borax and charcoal, of each, 1 part; all in fine