166 AXASARCA—ANCHOVY. pharm.y substances or agents which lessen or repress the sexual feelings. Under this head have been classed the nauseants, as emetic tartar; drastic purgatives, as colocynth, gam- boge, &c. j salines, as carbonate of soda, soda water, &c.; hemlock, tobacco, camphor, the cucurbitaceous plants, lettuce, &c. The aro- matic labiate plants, strong coffee, tea, and similar beverages, have also been charged with the same property, but apparently without sufficient reason. See Apheodisiacs. ANASAR'CA (an-a-). [L.] Syn. Ana- SAEQUE, Fr.; Anasaeka, Ger. Dropsy of the cellular membrane immediately under the skin. See Deopsy. ANASTATIC PRINTING. See PEiNTixa and ZiNCOGEAPHY. ANATOMICAL. Syn, AnatomTcus, L.; Anatomique, Fr.j Anatomisch, Ger. Be- longing to anatomy or dissection. Anatomical Fig'ures. Models in wax or other materials to illustrate the healthy or diseased structure of the body. Mademoiselle de Beheron, the daughter of an eminent Parisian surgeon, was the first successful artist in this way. The perfection to which this com- paratively new art has been carried, was shown in the admirable models contributed to the great “ International Exhibition” of 1851. Anatomical Prepara'tions. Objects of inter- est in both surgical and pathological anatomy, and specimens in natural history, preserved by subjecting them to antiseptic processes, to which is also frequently added injection with coloured fluids (which subsequently harden), amalgams, or fusible metal, in order to display more fully the minute vessels, or the micro- scopic anatomy of the several parts. See Fusible Metal, Injections, Peepaeations, PUTEEFACTION, SKELETONS, SOLUTIONS, &C. ANAT'OMY (a-nat'-). Syn. Anato'mia, Anat'ome*" (-me), L.; Anatomie, Fr., Ger, The art of dissecting or artificially separating the different parts of organic bodies, to dis- cover their situation, structure, and economy; the structure of organic bodies learned, or as learned, by dissection. In its widest applica- tion it includes all organised beings; but, in its special and more usual sense, it is restricted to man; the anatomy of animals (brutes) being generally termed compae'ative ANATOiiY or zoot'omy; and that of vegetables, teg'etal (vej'-) A. or PHYTOT'OilY. ANCHO'IC ACID (-k5'-). A substance lately observed, by M. Buckton, among the products of the oxidation of Chinese white wax. It falls in the series of bibasic acids between sub- eric acid and sebacic acid. ANCHOVY (-ch6'-). Syn. Anchois, Fr.; Anchove, Anschoye, Ger.; Acciughe, An- CHIOVE, It.; Anchova, Port., Sp. The clu'- pea encrasic'olus (Linn.), a small fish of the herring tribe, closely resembling the English sprat. It is common in the Mediterranean, and occurs in the greatest abundance, and of the finest quality, about the island of Gor- gona, near Leghorn. It is taken in the night, during May, June, and July. Anchovies are prepared for sale or exporta- tion by salting or pickling them—the heads, intestines, and pectoral fins having been first removed, but not the scales—and afterwards packing them, along wdth rock-salt, in the small kegs in which they are imported into this country. The small fish are valued more than the larger ones. For the ‘ table j they are often fried to a pale amber-colour, in oil or butter; having previously been scraped clean, soaked for an hour or two in water, wiped dry, opened (without dividing the fish), and had the back-bones removed. Before being put into the pan they are usually highly seasoned with cayenne ; and after being again closed, are dipped into a rich light batter. They are also divided into ‘ fillets,^ and served as ‘sandwiches,' or in ‘curried toasts.' An- chovies are also extensively potted (potted ANCHOVIES), and made into butter (a.-buttee), and into sauce (a.-sauce), particularly the last. The anchovy has a fine and peculiar flavour, and is eaten as a delicacy all over Europe. It was known to the Greeks and Romans, who prepared from it a kind of ‘garum' for the table. It is said to be aperitive, stimulant, and stomachic. The high price of genuine Gorgona ancho- vies has led the fraudulent dealer to either sub- stitute for them, or mix with them, fish of a less expensive kind. The most frequent sub- stitutions are Dutch, French, and Sicilian fish of allied species or varieties, sardines, and even the common sprat. The genuine ‘ Gor- gona fish' is about the length of one’s finger; and may be known by its silvery appearance; by the greater thickness of its head, which is sharp-pointed, wdth the upper jaw considerably the longest, and the mouth deeply divided; the dusky-brown colour of its back, ^ and the pink salmon-colour oi its flesh. When only 3 months old, its flesh is ‘ pale ’; wdien of 6 months, ‘ rather pink ’; when of 10 to 12 months (or in its prime), a beautiful ‘ deep pink-colour'; and when much older, darker, but less lively. The fin-rays varying in number with the age of the fish, are— Yarrell. llassall.2 Dorsal 14, . 16 (?). Pectoral 15, Ventral 7, . — Anal 18, 19 (?). Caudal 10, 26 (?). These fins are delicate in structure, and green- ish white ; and the membranes connecting the rays almost transparent. “ The length of the head, compared with the length of the body alone, is as 1 to 3; the depth of the body but 2-3rds of the length of the head, and com- 1 The colo%ir of the top of the head and back is, in the recent fish, blue, with a tinge of green. (Yarrell.) 2 Counted, hy Dr. A. H, Hassall, in fish in the pre- served state.