UtQ APPENDIX. Pour in chloride of calcium, | oz., dissolved in nitrate of potash, 2 lb,; sidphuric acid, 17 11. Niteate of Meecuey. Only in Solution (which see). Red Oxide of Meecuey (HYDEAEaYEi OxiDUM EUBEUM ; H. NiTEICO-OXIDUM, Ph. L.). Dissolve mercury, oz., in nitric acid, 3 fl. oz., diluted with water, 2 fl. oz.; evaporate to dryness; triturate the residue with more mercury, oz., and, when a uniform mixture is obtained, heat it in a porcelain capsule, with stirring, until acid vapours cease to be evolved. page 906.) Sulphate of Meecuey. Placed in Appen- dix among articles employed in the preparation of medicines. Prepared by heating mercury, 20 oz., with sulphuric acid, 12 fl. oz., and eva- porating to dryness, with constant stirring. Mezereon—Mezeeeum. See page 911. Milk. Named in Appendix. Mixtures. Seven of these preparations are placed in the Brit. Ph. (Compare the formulae below with those on pages 915 to 920.) Alhond Mixtuee (Mistuea Amygdalae). Rub compound powder of almonds, 2^ oz., with a little distilled water, into a thin paste; add more distilled water (making up 1 pint), and strain through muslin. Ammoniac Mixtuee (Mistuea Ammo- NlACi). As Ph. D. {Prep. 2, page 916). Chalk Mixtuee (Mistuea Ceet^). Tri- turate prepared chalk and gum arahic, of each, 5 oz., with cinnamon water, fl. oz.; then add syrup, ^ fl. oz., and mix. Ceeasote Mixtuee (Mistuea Ceeasoti). Mix creasote with glacial acetic acid, of each, 16 minims; gradually add distilled water, 15 fl. oz., and, lastly, syrup, 1 fl.-oz., and spirit of juniper, | fl. dr. Guaiac Mixtuee (Mistuea Guaiaci). Triturate guaiac resin, oz., with refined sugar, i oz., and gum arahic, g oz., adding, gradually, cinnamon water, 1 pint. Compound Mixtuee of Ieon (Mistuea Peeei OOMPOSITa). Myrrh, 60 gr.; car- bonate of potash, 25 gr.; refined sugar, 60 gr.; spirit of nutmeg, 1 fl. dr.; rose water, added gradually, 7 fl. oz.; triturate till a uniform mixture is obtained; then add sulphate of iron, 30 gr., dissolved in rose water, 1 fl. oz. The Ph. D. form is very similar. See Steel Mixtuee (1, h, page 920). Mixtuee of Scammony (Mistuea Scam- MONii). Triturate resin of scammony, 4 gr., with milk, added gradually, 2 fl. oz., until a uniform emulsion is obtained. Morphia. Only one salt of this alkaloid is included, viz.— Hydeochloeate of Moephia (Moephi^ Hydeochloeas ; M. Mueias, Ph. E. & D.). Macerate opium, sliced, 1 lb., for 24 hours, in distilled water, 2 pints, and decant. Macerate residue 12 hours Avith same quantity of dis- tilled water; repeat the process with a third proportion of distilled water; then subject residue to strong pressure. Unite liquors, and evaporate by water hath to 1 pint, and strain. distilled water, 4 fl. oz., and evaporate till the solution is so far concentrated that it solidifies on cooling. Envelope the mass in a double fold of strong calico, and subject it to strong pressure, saving the dark fluid which exudes. Triturate the squeezed cake with boiling dis- tilled water, ^ pint; filter through paper, Avashing residue v/ell with boiling distilled water. The filtered fluid is again evaporated, solidified, and subjected to pressure, saving the expressed liquid; and the process is re- peated a third time. Dissolve the cake in boiling distilled water, 6 fl. oz., add animal charcoal, i oz., and digest for 20 minutes; filter, and wash the filter and char- coal with boiling distilled Avater, and to the filtrate add solution of ammonia in slight excess. Let the pure crystalline morphia Avhich sepa- rates as the solution cools he collected on a paper filter, and Avashed with cold distilled water until Avashings cease to give a precipi- tate with solution of nitrate of silver acidu- lated by nitric acid. Diffuse the pure mor- phia through 2 fl. oz. of boiling distilled water, and saturate cautiously with dilute hydro- chloric acid, so that the morphia may be com- pletely dissolved, and a neutral solution ob- tained. Set aside to cool and crystallize. Drain crystals (hydrochlorate of morphia), and dry them on filtering paper. A second crop may be obtained by evaporating the mother- liquor. (See926.) [YvomVae dark liquids expressed in the above process a small quantity of pure morphia may he obtained by diluting them Avith distilled water, precipitating with excess of solution of potash; filtering; super- saturating the filtrate with hydrochloric acid, and then digesting it with animal charcoal; again filtering, and finally treating with so- lution of ammonia.l Mucilages. Three of these are included in the work :— Mucilage of Gum Aeabic (Mucilago Acaci.®). Suspend beneath the surface of distilled water, 6 fl. oz., a muslin bag con- taining gum arahic, in small pieces, 4 oz.; after 36 hours squeeze out the fluid remaining in the hag, and mix. Mucilage of Staech (Mucilago Amyli). Triturate starch, 120 gr., with distilled water, gradually added, 10 fl. oz.; boil, Avith constant stirring, for a few minutes. Mucilage of Teagacanth (Mucilago Teagacanth.e). Tragacanth,lQO ^v.; boiling distilled water, 10 fl. oz.; macerate 24 hours, then triturate, and express through calico. Mulberry Juice—Moei Succus. Seepage 930. Musk—Moschus. See page 931. Mustard—Sinapis. The seeds of the black and white mustard, reduced to poAvder, mixed. (See page 932.) Myrrh—Myeeha. See page 933. Nitric Acid. 1. (Acidum Niteicum.) From