POTASSIUM. 1121 je receiver Itself is partly filled with mineral \phtka, to preserve the newly formed po- Issiuin as it distils over. The arrangement of le apparatus being completed, the fire is jadually raised until the requisite tempe- ;ture, which is that of full whiteness, is [ached, when decomposition of the alkali by le charcoal commences, carbonic oxide gas is jundantly disengaged, and potassium distils [er, and falls in large drops into the liquid. ') render the product absolutely pure, it is re- [stllled in an iron or green-glass retort, into )ich some naphtha has been put, that its I pour may expel the air, and prevent the 4dation of the metal. The pieces of charcoal ie introduced for the purpose of absorbing the lilted carbonate of potassa, and preventing i; separation from the finely divided car- naceous matter. Prod. 3g to 4g of the ‘ight of tartar acted on; 1 lb. yielded I'O gr. jProjt;., (^c. Pure potassium is a brilliant lite metal, with a high lustre; at the common iinperature of the air it is soft, and may be sily cut with a knife, but at 32® Fahr. it is ittle and crystalline; it melts completely at 6® Fahr., and in close vessels distils unaltered a low red heat. Sp. gr. *865. Its most markable property is its afiinity for oxygen s, which is so great that it takes' it from 3st other substances containing it. Exposed the air, its surface is instantly tarnished, d quickly becomes covered with a crust of i.TJSTic POTASSA. It infiames spontaneously tien thrown on water, and burns with a beau- ul purple or purple-red fiame, yielding a ire alkaline solution. It can only be pre- [rved in naphtha, rock oil, or some other fluid '’drocarbon. With oxygen it forms two ides, one of which is potasSxI or peotoxide ^ POTASSIUM, and the other (peeoxide of )TASSIUM, TETEOXIDE OF P.) ail orange- loured substance, formed by heating the etal in an excess of dry air. Bro'mide of Potassium. Syn. Potassii eeo- IDUM, L. This compound is prepared by ecisely similar processes to those adopted for DiDE OF POTASSIUM. The proportions or- red in the Ph. L. 1836 were—Bromine, oz.; iron filings, 1 oz.; distilled water, 1-^ pint; c solution being afterwards decomposed with rhonate of potassa, 17 dr.; dissolved in dis- lled water, | pint. Prop., In appearance and general cha- cters, it closely resembles iodide of potassium; k1 it is employed in similar cases, and given similar doses, to that substance. Chlo"ride of Potassium. Syn. Mueiate of DTAsn t; Potassii citloeidum, L. The iloride of potassium of commerce is generally secondary product of the manufacture of iloeate of potassa and other substances, be mother-liquor of the former is evaporated ' dryness, and heated to dull redness; the dcined mass is then dissolved in water, the 'lution purified by defecation, and evaporated for crystals. On the small scale, it is some- times prepared by neutralizing dilute hydro- chloric acid with carbonate of potash, and evaporating, &c., as before. Prop., ^c. It closely resembles culinary salt in appearance; is anhydrous; dissolves in about 4 parts of cold and 2 of boiling water; has a slightly bitter, saline taste; fuses at a red heat; and is volatilized at a very high temperature. As a medicine, it is diuretic and aperient. It was formerly in high repute as a resolvent and antiscorbutic, and, particularly, as a remedy for intermittents. It is now seldom used. Dose. 10 gr. to | dr., or more. Cy'anide of Potassium. Syn. Cyanueet of POTASSIUM; Potassii cyanidum, P. oyaxu- EETUM, L. Prep. 1. (Medicixal cyanide of potas- sium.)—a. A solution of pure hydrate of po- tassa, 2 parts, in highly rectified spirit, 7 parts, is placed in a receiver furnished with a safety tube, and surrounded with bruised ice; the beak of a tubulated retort containing ferro- cyanide of potassium, in powder, 4 parts, is then adapted^ to it in such a manner that any^ gas or vapour evolved in the retort must tra- verse the solution in the receiver; the arrange- ment being complete, oil of vitriol, 3 parts, diluted with an equal weight of water, and allowed to cool, is cautiously poured into the retort, and the distillation conducted very slowly, a very gentle heat only being applied, as circumstances may direct; as soon as the force of ebullition in the retort has subsided, the distillation is complete, and the connection between the retort and receiver is broken; the contents of the receiver, now transformed into a mixture of a crystalline precipitate of cyanide of potassium, and an alcoholic solution of undecomposed potassa, is carefully thrown on a filter, and the precipitate, after the mother-liquor has drained off, very cautiously washed with ice-cold and highly rectified spirit, and then drained, pressed, and dried on the same filter. The product is chemically pure, and equal to fully lOg of the ferrocyanide em- ployed. This is a modification of what is commonly known as ‘ Wigger’s process.^ b. Expose well-dried and powdered ferro-- cyanide of potassium to a moderate red heat, in a close vessel; when cold, powder the fused mass, place it in a funnel, moisten it with a little alcohol, and wash it with cold water; evaporate the solution thus formed to dryness, expose it to a dull red heat in a porcelain dish, cool, powder, and digest it in boiling rectified spirit; as the spirit cools, crystals of cyanide of potassium, nearly pure, will be deposited. The alcohol employed in both this and the preceding process may be recovered by dis- tillation from calcined sulphate of iron. 2. (Ceude or commeecial cyanide— Liebig.) Commercial ferrocyanide of potas- sium, 8 parts, rendered anhydrous by gently heating it on an iron plate, is intimately 71 1