1206 SOAPS (MEDICATED). the excess above 100 gi** in the other, give the proportion of oil or fat present. This, in ordinary mottled soap, should he about 682; in yellow soap, 65§; in curd soap, 60§; and in Castile soap, 75§. — 4. Unsapokified fatty matter.—a. Pure soap is entirely soluble in distilled water and insoluble in saline solutions ; if a film of fatty matter forms on its solution in the former, after repose, that portion has not been sa- ponified. b. The fat separated from soap (see Xo. 2), when it has been perfectly saponified, is entirely soluble in alcohol. 5. Other impurities. Pure soap is solu- ble in rectified spirit, forming a colourless or nearly colourless solution. The undissolved portion, if exceeding Ig, is adulteration. Uses, The common uses of soap need not be enumerated. As a medicine, it acts as a mild purgative and lithontriptic, and it has been thought by some to be useful in certain affections of the stomach arising from de- ficiency of bile. Externally, it is stimulant and detergent. Dose. 3 to 20 or 30 gr., made into pills, and usually combined with aloes or rhubarb. Concluding remarks. Prior to the researches of Chevreul, no correct ideas were entertained as to the constitution of soap. It was long known that the fixed oils and fats, in contact with caustic alkaline solutions at a high tem- perature, undergo the remarkable change which is called saponification; but here the knowledge of the matter stopped. Chevreul discovered that if the soap, so produced, be afterwards decomposed by the addition of an acid, the fat which separates is found to be completely changed in character j to have acquired a strong acid reaction when applied in a melted state to test paper, and to have become soluble with the greatest facility in warm alcohol; in other words—that a new substance, capable of forming salts, and exhi- biting all the characteristic properties of an acid, has been generated out of the elements of the neutral fat under the influence of the base. Stearin, when thus treated, yields STEARIC acid, palmatin gives palmatic ACID, olein gives oleic acid, and common animal fat, which is a mixture of several neutral bodies, affords, by saponification by an alkali and subsequent decomposition of the soap, a mixture of the corresponding fatty acids. These bodies are not, however, the only products pf saponification; the change is always accompanied by the formation of a very peculiar sweet substance, called glycerin, which remains in the mother-liquor from which the acidified fat has been separated. The process of saponification itself proceeds with perfect facility, even in a closed vessel; no gas is disengaged; the neutral fat, of what- soever kind, is simply resolved into an alkaline salt of the fatty acid, which is soap, and into glycerin, a neutral body resembling syrup, and. like that liquid, miscible with water in eve' proportion. “ When yellow soap is made with the cheaj kinds of fat, it will hardly acquire a sufficio degree of firmness or hardness to satisfy t thrifty washerwoman. It melts away i rapidly in hot water, a defect which may well remedied by the introduction into f' soap of a little (l-20th) fused sulphate ofsoa< and this salt concreting, gives the soap a (| sirable hardness, whilst it improves its colo and renders it a more desirable article for l< washing tub.” (Ure.) This process was ; tented by Dr. Normandy, but soon provec source of annoyance and molestation to him the part of the Board of Excise, it being enormous crime in law to attempt to impr( and cheapen soap. “ Soda which contains sulphurets is prefer for making mottled or marbled soap, wher the desulphuretted soda makes the best wl curd soap.” “ The Barillas always cont a small proportion of potash, to which tl peculiar value, in making a less brittle more plastic hard soap than the factitious soc ; may, with great probability, be ascribe (Ure.) The mottled appearance is usually given the London Soap-works, by watering nearly finished soap with a strong lye ' crude soda, by means of a watering can i nished with a rose spout. For ‘ Cas soap,' a solution of sulphate of iron is employed. See Soaps (Medicated i Toilet). Arsen'ical Soap. Syn. Sapo arsenica L. Prep. (Becoeurs.) From carbonate of tash, 12 oz.; white arsenic, white soap, i, air-slaked lime, of each, 4 oz.; powdered c> phor, I oz. ; made into a paste with wa q. s. Used to preserve the skins of birds,: other small animals. Black Soap. Syn. Sapo Niger, S. moi ' COMMUNIS, L. A crude soft soap, made of i oil and potash; but the following mixtur i usually sold for it:—soft soap, 7 lb. ; train , 1 lb.; water, 1 gall.; boil to a proper cons • j ence, adding ivory black or powdered chare, q. s. to colour. Used by farriers. SOAPS (Medicated). A few only of tl ^ deserve notice here :— Antimo"nial Soap. Syn. Sapo anti ■ NiALis, Sapo stibiatus, L. Prep. (Ha • Cod. 1845.) Golden sulphuret of antim > 2 dr.; solution of caustic potassa, 6 dr. i q. s.); dissolve and triturate the solu > with medicated (Castile) soap (in pow( '• 1|^ oz., until the mass assumes a pil" consistence. It should be of a grayish-w e colour. Chlorina'ted Soap. Syn. Sapo calcis ci^- RINATA, L.; Savon antisyphilitique,-^- Prep. From Castile soap (in powder), 11 » chloride of lime (dry and good), 1 oz.; beat them to a mass with rectified .spirit, ( (holding in solution) oil of verbena or of gi