ANTIMONY. 183 hlach powder, from all its solutions not con- taining free nitric acid. If the experiment be made with a few drops of a solution of anti- mony containing a little free hydrochloric acid, and a small platinum dish or capsule be em- ployed, the part covered by the liquid is soon stained brown or hlachish, and the stain is irremovable by cold hydrochloric acid, but may be easily rernoved by warm nitric acid:—5. By ebullition of the acidulated liquid along with copper gauze, foil, or wire, as noticed under ‘ Rensch's Test’ * The peculiar violet gray of the deposit is characteristic, and may easily be distinguished from that given by arsenical so- lutions. 1-300th of a gr. may thus be easily detected:—6. Mixed with dilute sulphuric acid and poured on some metallic zinc in a gas- generating flask, provided with a small bent tube (see engr^ it yields antimoxiueetted Flask confaining the suspected fluid, dihite sul- phuric acid, and zinc. (^.) Small tube, at tlie one end having an almost capil- lary orifice, wliere the gas is inflamed. (c.) Spirit-lamp. Support. IIYDEOGEN, recognised by burning with a bluish-green flame, and furnishing dense white fumes which adhere readily to any cold sub- stance (as a porcelain plate) held over it; or, if the plate be depressed upon the flame, a deep black, and almost lustreless spot of metallic antimony; the fumes and spots in both cases being insoluble in water, and in di- lute solution of chloride (crude hypochlorite) of soda. On heating the centre of the tube to redness with a spirit lamp, the bluish-green colour of the flame lessens in intensity, and a mirror of metallic antimony, of silvery lustre, forms inside the tube at the ignited part. On passing dry sulphuretted hydrogen 1 through the tube, still heated by a spirit- lamp, this mirror assumes a reddish-yellow co- lour, approaching black in its thicker parts; and by exposure to a feeble stream of hydro- chloric acid gas, almost immediately, or in a few seconds, disappears, being carried off by the gas, which, if passed into a little dis- tilled water, yields a solution of chloride of antimony, which may be further submitted to any of the usual tests.^ If the substance be in the solid state, it must be reduced to powder and dissolved in water; or if insoluble See Arsenious Acid. in that menstruum, a solution must be ob- tained by digestion in either hot hydrochloric or nitrohydrochloric acid, before proceeding to examine it by this method. Estim. Antimony is generally weighed under the form of tersulphide; but sometimes as antimonious acid, and—though more seldom —as pure metal:— 1. A solution being obtained as above, if necessary, it is strongly acidulated with tartaric acid, and the antimony thrown down as a sulphuret by a stream of sulphuretted hy- drogen. After warming the solution and al- lowing it to cool, the precipitate (teeshl- phijeet) is collected on a filter, dried, and weighed. A small portion digested in strong hydrochloric acid, will completely dissolve if it be the pure sulphuret; in w^hich case the quantity of ANTIMONY sought will be equal to 7li § (Vl‘59) of the weight of the sulphuret found (very nearly)^. Should only part of the precipitate be soluble, a known weight of it may be introduced into a flask, and a con- siderable quantity of fuming nitric acid added, drop by drop, and afterwards, a little hydro- chloric acid, the mixture being digested, at a gentle heat, until the reaction is complete, and the whole of the sulphur is dissolved. The resulting solution diluted with water, strongly acidulated with tartaric acid, and solution of chloride of barium added as long as it disturbs the liquid, yields a precipitate, of which the vieighi, after it has been thoroughly washed, dried, and gently ignited, multiplied by *136, gives the quantity of sulphite in the sample ; and w'hich deducted from the weight of the sulphuret first found, gives the quantity of pure ANTIMONY, as before. 2. The quantity of pure antimony in com- mercial samples may be determined by treating them (in powder) with nitric acid, which oxidises the antimony and leaves it in an in- soluble state, whilst it dissolves the other metals. The resulting oxide is collected on a filter, washed, dried, ignited in an open porce- lain crucible, and weighed—its weight multi- plied by *7898 gives the quantity of pure metal sought. 3. Dissolve a known weight of the sample in hydrochloric acid, immerse a blade of pure me- tallic tin in the solution, and keep the liquor acidulous, and in a state of gentle ebullition by 1 the heat of a sand-bath, when the whole of the antimony wdll be precipitated under the form of a black powder, and may be collected, w'ashed, dried, and w^eighed. This is particu- larly adapted to alloys of antimony and tin. See Tests (above) and Pur. (below^). Pur. The antimony of commerce generally contains a little arsenic, w'ith variable quanti- ties of iron, lead, sulphur, and tin. These impurities may be thus detected;— 3 Tersulphnret of antimony dried at 212° Falir. still retains traces of water, wliich is not xchoUy expelled until the heat reaches 390—392° wlien it acquires a black colom* and a crystalline appearance. (Rose, “Journ. f. prakt. Chemlix, 331.)