WATERS (DISTILLED). 1325 Ito the last.—7. The addition of a little aqueous chlorine, or chlorine gas, to fOul water, cleanses :it immediately. This method has the advan- Itage of the water being perfectly freed from any excess of the precipitant by heat.—8. Sea \water may be rendered fit for washing by the [addition of st solution of carbonate of soda or \salt of tartar, as long as it turns milky. After ■repose, the clear portion must be decanted.— ' 9. Sea water may be rendered fit for use as a [beverage by distillation. . The waste heat of I the cook’s galley is amply sufficient for this ; purpose. (There are several patent con- ftrivances for the distillation of water on ship- j board.)—10. Hard water may be softened in ) the same way as sea water.—11. Hard water 1 may be both agrated and softened by the addi- i tion of a few grains of bi6arbonate of potash 'per gallon, Mlojved by hffif as much lemon juice or tartaric acid as is sufficient to saturate the alkali in the carbonate thus added.—12. The hardness of water depending on the pre- sence of carbonate of lime (‘ temporary hard- ness’), including that of most rivers and many springs, may be nearly removed by ebullition; or, as recommended by Prof. Clark, by mixing the hard water with lirne water iii the'proper proportions, when the dissolved lime combines with the excess. of carbonic acid, which pre- viously rendered the carbonate soluble, aUd is precipitated as carbonate (chalk), together with the carbonate originally presept. This method has been successfully carried out on the large scale.—13. Another method is to preci- pitate the lime by the additioti of oxalate of ' ammonia in atomic proportion, carefully avoid- I ing excess, and then to agitate the water with ! a little binoxide of mdriganesb, in fine powder, j —14. * Permanently hard’ water may be soft- I ened by substituting hydrate of barytd, or ; baryta water, for the lime in No. 12< Pres. Water is usually preserved on ship- j board in iron tanks, or in casks well charred bn the inside. It cannOt be safely kept in copper ! or leaden vessels, and receives a calcareous ! impregnation by contact with lime, mOrtar, j stucco, or stone containing lime. - The addition ! to water of about \ to 1§ of finely powdered I black oxide of manganese materially promotes j its preservation, especially at sea, v/here' the I motion of the vessel, and the consequent I agitation of the water, increases the points of j contact. Water never putrefies in iron vessels, or when some fragments of metallic iron are I immersed in it. liistilled water should be pre- served in stoppered glass bottles or carboys. See Lotion, Solution, Spikits, Waters (Distilled, Eye, Minetal, Perfumed, &C.), and the articles belovb. Bareges Water. Prep. Take of alum, cdr- I bonate of lime, and hard Spanish soap, of each, j 2 gr.; common salt, 4 gr.; dried carbonate of i soda, 20 gr.; sulphuret of potassium, 16 gr.; 1 water, 1 quart; boil them together until the ! fumes of sulphuretted hydrogen begin to be * evolved, then add enough water to make up 1 gallon. Used as a medicated lotion or bath in cutaneous diseases, from the slightest erup- tion to the most obstinate cases of leprosy. 60 times the above quantity formed tbe medicated warm bath employed by the Emperor Napoleon. See Waters (Mineral). , Carrara Water. Syn. Carbonated lime WATER ; AQUA CALCIS SUPERCARBONATIS, L. Prep. From lime water (professedly prepared from lime made by calcining Carrara.marble), supersaturated by strong pressure with car- bonic acid, so that the carbonate of lime at first thrown’down is redissolved.- Each ^-pint bottle contains 8 to 10 gr. of carbonate of Umel c . , ; Chalyb'eated Water. Syn. Aqua chalt- tiEATl, L. Prep~. (Ure.) Protosutphate of iron, 3 gr.; bicarbonate of potassa, Q\ gr.; cold rain or distilled water, 1 quart; mix, and agitate in a corked bottle. Possesses equabtonic powers to that of the springs, but it may be rendered pleasanter by forcing in a little carbonic acid gas. See Waters (Mineral). Fly Water. Pre]?. , From white y arsenic, 1 dr.; boiling Water, 1 pint; dis^lve, and sweeten the mixture with treacle. Used to kill flies. ' A dangerous method, and. one that should never be adopted where there are children. • . . ’ Lifiie Water. See Solittion oe Lime. Lith'ia Water. From the freshly precipi- tated carbonate, as solution of magnekial Ant- acid and antilithic. ^ , Oxygenated Water. See Peroxide Op Hy- DROOEN (^page 744). Fotaih Water. SeeSotuTiON. Rose Water. See Waters (Distilled). Seidlitz Water.. See Powders {page 1137), and Waters (Mineral). Soda Water. Each bottle of this liquid should contain at least 15 gr.. of carbonate of soda, but that of the shops is now nothing else hxkt pistilled water highly charged with car- bonic acid gas. Not a particle of soda ever enters into its composition, on which account it cannot be substituted for the preparation of the Pharmacopoeias. -, To produce a superior article of soda water, the possession of a powerful aerating and bot- tling machine is absolutely necessary. The teener employed must also be of the purest quality, the carbonic acid well washed with water, and the corks so prepared that they will not impart their peculiar flavour to the beverage.. See Powders {page 1137), So- lution, and Wines. Tar Water. See Inpusion op Tar {page 772).. WATERS (Distilled). Syn. Aromatic wa- ters, Odoriferous w.. Perfumed w. ; Aqu^ (Ph. L.), Aqu-e destillata: (Ph. E. & D.), L. Pure water, charged, by distillation, with the volatile, odorous, and aromatic principles of plants. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.)—a. 2 gall, of water are put into the still along with the vegetable