372 BUNION—BUX. infecting Chloride of Zinc’ (price Qd.,) diluted with twice its weight of water, is sufficient for two or three bedsteads; and its use is also valuable in a hygienic point of view. The following mixtures are also in common use, or have been recommended for this pur- pose :— 1. Corrosive sublimate (in powder) and mu- riatic acid, of each, 1 oz.; hot water, f pint; agitate them together until the first is com- pletely dissolved. Some persons add | pint of oil of turpentine, but this addition is objec- tionable, as it will not mix with the rest. It is applied with a paint-brush, observing to rub it well into the cracks and joints. This is the common ‘ hug-wash ’ of the shops. It is a deadly poison ! 2. As the last, but substituting 2 oz. of sal- ammoniac for the ‘ muriatic acid.^ 3. Oil of turpentine, 1 pint; camphor, 2 oz.; dissolve. Very cleanly and efiective. 4. Tobacco-water, made by steeping 2 oz. of good shag in 1 pint of warm water, for a few hoars. 5. Crude pyroligneous acid or essence of smolce. 6 Coal-tar naphtha. This, as well as No. 3. {above) should never be used by candle-light, as it is excessively inflammable. When the smell of the common naphtha is objectionable, benzole or benzine, may be used instead. The celebrated nostrum vended under the name of ^^Insecticide” is said to be nothing but ben- zole. 7. Sulphuret of potassium (in powder), 6 oz. ; soft soap, ^ lb.; oil of turpentine, i pint, or q. s. to make a species of soft ointment. The odour of the last three {Nos. 5, 6, 7) is rather persistent and disagreeable; but they are very effective. 8. Strong mercurial ointment, soft soap, and oil of turpentine, equal parts, triturated to- gether. Rather greasy and dirty. 9. Scotch or Welsh snuff, mixed with twice its weight of soft soap. 10. Sulphur, or squills, in impalpable powder, blown into the cracks or joints, or scattered in a fine ‘ cloud,’ by means of a hollow ball or balloon of vulcanised Indian-rubber filled with it and furnished with a small wooden jet or mouth-piece, or in any other convenient man- ner. Very cleanly and effective. Dumont’s ‘ Patent Vermin Killer,’ as well as the whole host of imitations of it, is of this kind. Obs. Out of the above list there is ample room for selection. The common practice is to take the bedstead, or other piece of furni- ture, to pieces, before applying them. The following extract may be useful to per- sons interested in the subject:—“These pests exist only in dirty houses. A careful housewife or servant will soon completely destroy them. The surest method of destruction is to catch them individually when they attack the person in bed. When their bite is felt, instantly rise and light a candle and capture them. This may be troublesome, but if there be not a great number, a few nights will finish them. ’ When there is a large number, and they j have gained a lodgment in the timbers, take the bed in pieces, and fill in all the apertures and joints with a mixture of soft soap and Scotch snuff. A piece (»f wicker-work, called a BTJG-TEAP, xfiaced at the head of the bed, forms a receptacle for them, and then they may be daily caught till no more are left. Oil-painting a wall is a sure means of exclud- ing and destroying them.” ^ It has been asserted that these insects are so fond of nar- row-leaved dittany or pepperwort (‘lepidium ruderale ’), that if a bunch of it be suspended near their haunts, they Avill settle in it, and may be thus easily captured. It is said to be | commonly used as a ' bug-trap ’ in some of our | rural districts. Water, poured boiling from j the spout of a kettle into the cracks and i joints, is a cleanly and certain remedy, which we have often seen employed; so also is a jet ! of steam; they are both destructive to all i insects, and will be found particularly so to ‘ beetles.’ I The proper time for attaclcing these pests is ' early in March, or shortly before they are re- , vived from their dormant state by the warm weather. See Insects. Har'vest Bug. See Acaei. Essence of Bugs. Oxalate of amyle. BUNTON (-ynn). A species of corn or , swelling on the ball of the great toe, resulting : from pressure, and irritation by friction. The treatment recommended for ‘ corns ’ applies also to bunions; but in consequence of the greater extension of the disease, the cure is ; more tedious. A bunion may often be effec- tually stopped and removed by poulticing it, j and, at the proper time, carefully opening it § with a lancet. See Coens. BU'GLE (bu'gl). An elongated cylindrical glass-bead. See Bead (page 286). BUN. A well-known kind of light, sweet cake. Prep. 1. Bath-buns. See below. 2. Ceoss-buns -.—Flour, 2| lb.; sifted sugar, \ lb.; coriander-seeds, cassia, and mace, of each (powdered), q. s.; make a paste -with buttei', ^Ib.; (dissolved in) hot milk, \ pint; work witli three tablespoonfuls of yeast; set it before the fire for an hour to rise, then make it into buns, and set them before the fire on a tin for half an hour; lastly, brush them over with warm milk, and bake them to a nice brown in a moderate oven. 3. Madeiea-buns :—Butter, 8 oz. ; 2 eggs ; flour, 1 lb. ; ptowdered sugar, 6 oz.; half a nutmeg (grated); poivdered ginger and caraway seeds, of each, | teaspoonful; work well toge- ther, then add as much milk as required, and ferment; lastly, bake on tins in a quick oven. 4. Plain buns :—Flour, 2 lb. ; butter, \ lb.; 1 Chambers’s “ Infonmtiou for the Veoyle." \