ABIES—ABORTION. 8 ABIES (-e-ez). See Fie. ABIETIC ACID. The name given, by M. Banp, to a combination of pinic and sylvic acid (?), obtained, under the form of square, crystalline plates, from the mixed liquid re- sulting from the separate action of dilute and strong alcohol on the resin of ahies excelsa (DC.), or Norway spruce-fir. It forms salts (ab'ietates—? EEs'iNATES—?) with the bases. Abietic Acid (of Caillot). Syn. Abietine—? (see below). Prep. The resin of abies picea or pectinata (Strasburg turpentine), after digestion in absolute alcohol, is dissolved in a solution of carbonate ofpotassa ; the alkali of the resulting abietate of potassa (?) is saturated with dilute acid, the precipitate that falls is dissolved in pure petroleum, and the solution crystallised. Obs. Berzelius regards this substance as a combination of the resins alpha and beta of his analysis of the above turpentine. ABTETINE (-e-et-in). Syn. An'iETiN". The abietic acid (of Caillot). See Abies, &c. Abietine (of Caillot). The crystallizable resin obtained by the action of absolute alcohol on Strasburg turpentine. It is the resin gamma of Berzelius, and is sometimes im- properly called ABIETIC acid. Abietine. A name often absurdly given to the finer varieties of Strasburg turpentine. AB'LET. Syn. Ablette, Able, Fr. The name of several fishes; appr., the bley or bleak. See Peaels (Artificial). ABLU'TION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ablu'tio, L. In a general sense, washing, cleansing, or puri- fication by water. Ablution. In chemistry, the separation of saline, or other extraneous matter, by the affusion of water, or other suitable liquid. Ablution. In hygiene and the toilet, a washing of the whole body, or any part of it. The value of frequent and copious affusions of pure water to the surface of the body is well known. During life, the skin is continually subjected to abrasion, and the processes of re- production and decay, by which the cuticle, its exterior portion, is being constantly thrown off as effete and useless matter, in the shape of very minute scales or dust. This, mingling with the oily and saline products of the skin, acquires sufficient adhesiveness to attach itself to the surface of the body and clothing, as well as to attract the waste particles of the dress, and the dust and soot floating in the atmosphere. In this way, if occasional ablu- tion be not had recourse to, the channels of perspiration will become choked, and the clothing itself rendered unwholesome and unfit for use. The consequence of the pores of the skin being obstructed is impeded transpi- ration, by which its functions, as a respiratory organ, are interfered with or suspended. This adhering pellicle of refuse matter also acts both as a mechanical and chemical irritant, and forms a favourable medium for the absorp- tion, and the transmission into the body, of effluvia, miasmata, poisonous gases, and the infectious and contagious vapours of disease. “ The greater part of (contagious) poisons are conveyed to us through the external surface of our bodies; and it is fully proved, that poison, already communicated, has been by cleanliness removed, before it could actually produce any bad effects. I here allude, in particular, to frequent washing, bathing, rinsing the mouth, combing and brushing the hair, and often changing the linen, clothing, and bedding.” (Hufeland.) Such are the immediate effects of neglected ablution of the skin; the further consequences are of an equally serious character. The blood being deprived of one of its sources of oxygen, and one of the outlets for its carbon, the functions of nutrition become imperfect, and the animal temperature lessened. The matters which would be thrown out of the system in the form of perspiration are retained, and must be eliminated by other channels. The lungs, the kidneys, the liver, and the bowels, are each, in their turns, ‘ overtasked ’ to perform the functions of another organ. The oppressed viscera suffer from exhaustion, and incipient disease soon follows. Their particular offices are languidly performed, the equilibrium of health is disturbed, and skin diseases, or con- sumption, diarrhoea, dropsy, liver-complaints, visceral obesity, or some other serious diseases of the vital organs, ensue. What further considerations need be offered to enforce the necessity of personal cleanliness ? And when it is added, that no dirty or imperfectly-washed skin can long continue healthy, and ceasing to be healthy must also cease to be agreeable and beautiful, the argument in favour of the daily use of pure water to the whole surface of the body, when possible, will surely be complete. Ablution. In medicine, the washing the body, externally, as by bathing; or internally, by diluting drinks. In anc. med., according to Galen, internal ablution was accomplished by the use of profuse libations of milk-whey ; an object now aimed at, by the hydropathists, by the copious administration of pure cold water. See BATHiNa, Baths, Hydeopathy, &c. ABNORM'AL. Syn. Abnoem'ohs *; Anoem'- AL, Eng., Fr.; Abnoe'mis, L. In medicine and the collateral sciences, contrary to, or without system or rule; irregular; deformed; unnatural. ABOR'TION. Syn. Aboe'tio, Aboe'sus, Aboe'ths, L. ; Avoetement, Fr. In path- ology and obstetrics, the expulsion of the human foetus after the sixth week, and before the sixth month of pregnancy. Prior to the sixth week it is usually called miscarriage; and after the sixth month, premature labour. From the end of the third month to the period of "quickening,’ is the time during which it generally happens. Causes. Nervous irritability, plethora, ad- vanced age, scurvy; syphilitic, scrofulous, or