ANCHUSIC ACID—ANEURISM* 167 paved to the length of the whole fish, is as 1 to 7the tail is deeply forked, the gill-covers are elongated, and the scales of the body large and deciduous.” “ The breadth of the eye is l-5th of the length of the whole head.” ^ ‘ Dutch fish ’ may be generally known by being deprived of the scales, and the ‘ French fish^ by tlieir larger size; and both by the jjoler or whiter colour of their fiesh ; and ‘ sardines ^ 1 and * sprats,’ by the flesh being while. The 1 genuine flsh may also be known by the pickle, \ after repose or filtration, being of a clear pinkish colour, without any red sediment; I whilst that from spurious kinds is turbid and j red only when agitated, and deposits a heavy I red sediment (Armenian bole, Venetian red, or I red ochre) on repose. See Buttee, PoTTi^a, PowDEES, Sauces, &c. I British Anchovies. See Speats. I ANCHU'SIC ACID (-kii'-zik). See Anchusine. ! ANCHU'SINE (-ku'-zin). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Anchu'sic acid*, Pseu'do-alkann'ine*, ; PSEUDO-ALKA”NirM* ; AnCHIJSI'NA, L. The I resinoid constituting the colouring matter of ' alkanet-root (which see'). ANCHYLO'SIS (angk-e-). [L. ; prim., Gr.] I Syn. Axkylo'sis, Ancylo'sis (an-se-), L.; i Ankylose, Fr., Ger. In pathology, stiffness or I immobility of a joint naturally moveable. Anchylosis is either true or complete, as when the extremities of the bones forming a joint I are reunited and immoveable ; or, false or in- I complete, where the affection depends upon a I contraction of the tendons and ligaments sur- ' rounding the joints, which nevertheless admit p of a small degree of motion. For the first ] there is no available remedy; for the second, I gentle and progressive flexion and extension of i the part daily (carefully avoiding violence), friction with oleaginous and stimulating lini- ments, and the use of the hot-bath, vapour- bath, or hot-air or Turkish bath, and elec- tricity, have been strongly recommended, and have frequently proved successful. ANCYLO'SIS. See Anchylosis. ANELEC'TRIC (an-e-). Non-electric; a 1 non-electric. ANEMOM'ETER (an-e-). Syn. Anemom'- ETEUM, L.; ANEMOMETEE, Fr. ; WiNDMESSEE, Ger. An instrument or apparatus for mea- ’ suring the force or velocity of the wind, or of ' a current of air. Various contrivances have : been adopted for this purpose. The anemo- meter of Dr. Lind being also applicable to the determina- tion of the draught of a chimney, and the strength of air-currents in ventilation, may be usefully described here :— Desc. appl. The open end (a) is kept, by means of a vane, presented to the wind, which acting on the surface ^ YaiTcU’s British Fishes’* of the water or other liquid in (b), raises the level of the fluid in the arm (e). The dif- ference of the level of the fluid in the two arms of the instrument is the measure of the force of the wind. To estimate the draught of a flue or chimney, the arm (c) is placed in the chimney, and the orifice (a) in the apart- ment.2 See Ventilation, Wind, &c. ANEMOM'ETRY. Syn. Anemome'teia, L. ; Anemometeie, Fr.; Windmessen, Ger. In meteorology, physics, ^c., the art or act of mea- suring the velocity or force of the wind, or of ascertaining its direction. See Anemome- TEE. ANEM'ONE (a-nem'-o-ne). Syn. Anem’- ONY; Anemo'ne, L., Gr.; Anehone, Fr. The wind-flower. In botany, a genus of beautiful flowering herbaceous plants, of the Nat. ord., Ranunculacese. The double flowers of some of the species are among the most elegant orna- ments of our gardens. Others are used in medicine. They are all acrid and stimulating. Sea Anem'ones (-o-nez). Syn. AnTmal- ELOWEEsJ, Sea sun'floweesJ. Animals of the genus actin'ia, so called, from the resemblance of their claws or tentacles, when expanded, to the petals of a flower. They are of various colours, are generally fixed by one end to rocks or stones in the sand, and are very voracious, being accused of occasionally swallowing a mussel or a crab as large as a hen’s egg for a meal. They belong to the highly-organised polypes of Cuvier. ANEMON'IC ACID. See Anemonine. ANEM'ONINE (-nm ; or -mo'). Syn. Ane- MONI'NA, Anemo”nia, L. ; Anemonine, Fr.; Anemonin, Ger. The name given by Lowig and Fehling to an acrid crystallisable sub- stance, extracted by hot alcohol from ane- mone pulsatilla, a. nemorosa, and a. pratensis. It is combustible and burns like camphor. By the action of baryta-water on this substance, Lomg obtained a compound which has been called ANEMONIC ACID. ANEM'OSCOFE (an'-e—Brande, Mayne). - Syn. Anemosco'pium, L. ; Anemoscope, Fr.; Anemoskop, Ger. An instrument to measure the force and velocity of the wind. See Ane- MOMETEE. AN'EROID (-royd).^ In physics, <^c., not fluid, or not depending on vrater or a fluid for its action ; applied to a certain form of ‘ baro- meter’ (which see). AN'EURISM (an'-u-rizm). Syn. An'eiteysm*; AnEUEIS'MA,L.; ANEIJEISME*,ANEVEISME,Fr. In surgery, a tumour formed by the morbid dila- tion or rupture of an artery, characterised by * The aneiiiomelers now generally used in meteorolo- gical observations are those of Mr. Toilet Osier, Dr. Robinson, and Dr. Whewell. Tor a description of these instruments, see Phillip’s “ Report on Anemometry’’ the “Trans, of the Brit. Assoc.,” 181G, “Trans. Royal Irish Acad.,” 8cc. 3 That is—d, without, vrjpos, (.the) watery, eiSos, form, as correctly given by Braude. By some strange mistake. Dr. Mayne, in his new “Expository Le.vicon,” gives “a, priv., arip, air, terminal -ides,” as the derivatiou of this word j and marks it ‘ android.’