745 HYDROGEN. I small fragment of phosphorus about tlie size t of a horse-bean; apply a very gentle heat with the small flame of a spirit lamp, agitating I the retort continually. A pale lambent flame I will first appear in the interior, and when this reaches the orifice, and burns in the open I air, the retort should be placed on the stand with its beak about an inch under water. , Care must be taken not to withdraw tbe I flame of the lamp. When the bubbles of the I gas rise to the surface they spontaneously I inflame.”^ 3. From phosphuret of calcium - and dilute hydrochloric acid, as above; or simply from the phosphuret thrown into water. } Ohs. The gas obtained by methods 2 and 3 , is contaminated with the vapour of a liquid i phosphide of hydrogen, wdiich gives to it the property of spontaneous inflammability. I Prop., H^‘c. Colourless; very fetid; slightly I soluble in water; burns with a white flame; decomposed by light, heat, and strong acids; as commonly prepared, inflames on contact with air, at ordinary temperatures, but when pure, only at the heat of boiling water. Sp. gr. 1*24'. It is rendered quite dry by standing over fused chloride of calcium. Seleniuret'ted Hydrogen. Syn. Sele- KIETTED HYDEOGEN, HyDEOSELENIC ACID, ^ Selenhydeic a. a gaseous compound of t hydrogen and selenium, obtained by the action f of dilute sulphuric acid on the seleniuret of I iron, manganese, or potassium. It is colourless, i is freely absorbed by water, and in its action on metallic solutions greatly resembles SUL- j rnuEETTED HYDEOGEN. Its most reiiiark- » able property is its power of irritating the ^ nose, exciting catarrhal symptoms, and de- I stroying the sense of smell. Siliciuret'ted Hydrogen. Syn. Silicated 1 iiYDEOGEN, Hydeide OF SILICON. A gaseous f compound of hydrogen and silicon, discovered ‘ by Buff and Wohler. Pi'ep. (Martins.) Chloride of magnesium, 80 parts ; chlorides of potassium and sodium, mixed in equivalents, 20 parts; silicofuoride of potassium, 70 parts; sodium, 40 parts. The various salts, perfectly dry, are first inti- mately mixed together, and then introduced into a wide-mouthed bottle; the sodium, cut into pieces the size of a small pea, is then added, and the whole contents of the bottle well agitated. A tali Hessian crucible having been heated to bright redness, the mixture is suddenly projected into it, and the cover placed on. When the mass is fused, the crucible is withdrawn from the furnace, broken, and the ‘slag’ removed. This slag, which contains a proportion of ‘silicide of magne- sium,’ serves for the preparation of the desired gas, and has merely to be broken into frag- ments and treated with hydrochloric acid in a I small retort. The gas may be collected over water or mercury. * “ TnteUeclvul Observer,'' vol. iii, p. 286. 2 Sec jiaye 382. Prop. A colourless gas, inflaming spon- taneously when brought in contact with the air. “ If a bubble be allowed to escape into the air, it bursts into flame wdth explosive violence; a white, hollow, cylindrical ring of smoke ascends, rotating, undulating, and widening as it goes up, and distriliuting, when it breaks, a multitude of fine flakes of dry silica.” SuTphiirets of Hydrogen. Hydrogen forms with sulphur two compounds, corresponding respectively to the oxygen compounds water and PEROXIDE of hydrogen :— 1. Sulphnret'ted Hydrogen. Syn. Hydro- SULPHDRIC ACID, SULPHYDEIC A., SULPHIDE OF HY^DROGEN, HePATIC AIR*; HYDROGE- NlUil SULPHURATUM, ACIDUM IIYDROSUL- PHURIUYI, L. Prep. 1. Tersulphuret of antimony (in fine powder), 1 part; strong hydrochloric acid, 5 parts; mix in a small glass retort, or in a flask furnished with a bent tube, apply the heat of a spirit lamp, and collect the evolved gas either over mercury or Avater, in the pneu- matic trough.^ Pure. 2. From protosulphuret of iron and oil of vitriol diluted with 4 or 5 parts of water. This is the plan commonly adopted in the laboratory. 3. (Reinsch.) From equal parts of sulphur and suet, heated together. Prop. Gaseous; colourless; very fetid; odour resembling that of rotten eggs; reddens moistened litmus paper; burns with a blue flame; liquefies under a pressure of 17 atmo- spheres, at 50° Fall!’.; freezes into a white crystalline mass at —122° Fahr.; cold water absorbs about three times its own volume of this gas, forming sulphuretted hydrogen WATER; sp. gr., 1'171; 100 cubic inches weigh 3G-33 gr. The compounds called hy'dro- SULPHATES, SULPHURETS, 01* SULPHIDES, are produced by the reactions of this gas with metallic solutions. It is powerfully poison- ous. An atmosphere containing lT500th of this gas instantly killed a small bird; 1-1000th killed a large dog, and l-250th a horse. (Dupuytren and Thenard.) Tests. Sulphuretted hydrogen is readily recognised—1. By its odour.—2. By instantly blackening moist carbonate of lead.—3. By tarnishing polished silver.—4. By giving a yellow precipitate with arsenious acid.—5. By giving an orange-red precipitate with tartar emetic.—6. By giving a Hack precipitate with the salts of lead. Air containing l-20,000th part of pure hydrogen will sensibly blacken a piece of white paper, moistened with a solu- tion of acetate of lead. Uses, <fc. Sulphuretted hydrogen is chiefly employed as a test in chemical analysis. For this purpose, the best Avay is to keep a minia- ture apparatus for generating the gas always at hand. A small bottle or flask, furnished * Being very soluble in water, it cannot be collected OA’er that fluid without considerable loss.