794 IRON. vision), 1 part, added at once, and the tritura- tion continued; if the heat developed from the mixture is insufficient to cause the disen- gagement of iodine vapour, the mixture is slightly heated immediately after the addition of the iron filings; the whole, at first liquid, soon becomes solidified, and must be at once put into bottles as before. In the protiodide of iron thus prepared, there exists a small quantity of undecomposed iron, which may be easily separated by a filter, when the salt is used in solution, and the filtered liquid will then be colourless, and free from any admix- ture of periodide or of free iodine. 5. (With SUGAE: Sacchaeine iodide oe lEON; Sacchaeum eeeei iodidi, eeeei icn DIDTJM SACCHAEATUM, L.)—a. (Ph. Bor.) h'On (in powder), 1 dr.; water, 5 dr.; iodine, 4 dr.; obtain a solution of iodide of iron, as above, and add to it of sugar of milk (in powder), oz.; evaporate at a temperature not ex- ceeding 122° Fahr., until the mass has a tena- cious consistence, then further add of sugar of milk, 1 oz., reduce the mixture to powder, and preserve it in a well-stoppered bottle. Every 6 gr. contain 1 gr. of iodide of iron. b. (Dr. A. T. Thomson.) From syrup of iodide of iron exposed in a shallow vessel, in a warm place, until it crystallizes; the crystals are collected, dried, and powdered. A simpler plan is to gently evaporate the whole to dry- ness, and to powder the residuum. The sac- charated iodide of iron may be kept for some time in a corked bottle without undergoing- decomposition. Obs. The preparation of the above com- pound, like that of the citeates of ieon, has formed a fertile subject during some years for pharmaceutical amateurs to dilate upon. There is in reality not the least difficulty in the process. As soon as iodine and iron are mixed together under water, much heat is evolved, and if too much water be not used the combination is soon complete, and the liquor merely requires to be evaporated to dryness, out of contact with the air, at a heat not exceeding 212° Fahr. This is most cheaply and easily performed by employing a glass flask, with a thin broad bottom and a narrow mouth, by which means the evolved steam excludes air from the vessel. The whole of the un- combined water may be known to be evapo- rated when vapour ceases to condense on a piece of cold glass held over the:^ mouth of the flask. A piece of moistened starch paper oc- casionally applied in the same way will indi- cate whether free iodine is evolved; should such he the case, the heat should be immedi- ately lessened. When the evaporation is com- pleted, the mouth of the flask should be stopped up by laying a piece of sheet India rubber on it, and over that a flat weight; the flask must be then removed, and when cold broken to pieces, the iodide weighed, and put into dry and warm stoppered wide-mouth glass phials, which must be immediately closed, tied over with bladder, and the stoppers dipped into melted wax. Prop., <^c. Iodide of iron evolves violet vapours by heat, and sesquioxide of iron re- mains. When freshly made, it is totally soluble in water, and from this solution, when kept in a badly stoppered vessel, sesquioxide of iron is very soon precipitated; but with iron wire immersed in it, it may he kept clear in a well- stoppered bottle.” (Ph. L. 1836.) “ Entirely soluble in water, or nearly so, forming a greenish solution.” (Ph. E.) Its dilute solution should be colourless. Dose. 1 to 3 gr., or more, as a tonic, stimulant, and resolvent. It has been given with advantage in anaemia, chlorosis, debility, scrofula, and various glandular afiec- tions. 2. Sesqui-i'odide of Iron. Syn. Peeiodide OF IEON, FeEEIC iodide ; FeEEI PEEIODIDUM, L. Prep. Freely expose a solution of protio- dide of iron to the air; or digest iodine, in excess, on iron, under water, gently evaporate, and sublime. A deliquescent, volatile red compound, soluble in water and alcohol. It is rarely employed as a medicine. Lac'tate of Iron. Syn. Peotolactate of IEON, FeEEOUS lactate ; FeEEI LACTAS, Feeeum lacticdm, L. Prep. 1. Boil iron filings in lactic acid diluted with water, until gas ceases to be evolved, and filter whilst hot into a suitable vessel, w’hich must be at once closely stopped; as the solution cools, crystals will be deposited, which after being washed, | first with a little cold water, and then with alcohol, are to be carefully dried. The mother- liquor, on being digested, as before, with/res^ iron, will yield more crystals. 2. (Pagenstecher.) Lactate of lime (pre- | pared from sour milk) is dissolved in water, | and carbonate of ammonia added until it ceases i to produce a precipitate; the liquid is now J filtered, and concentrated by heat until it ac- : quires the consistence of syrup; it is then mixed with 6 times its weight of alcohol (sp. gr. ’879), and a concentrated solution of protochloride of iron (containing a quantity of the salt equal to 38§ of the lactate of lime employed) is added; in about 36 hours the mixed liquid will have deposited all its lactate of iron in minute crystals, which may he obtained by straining and pressure between the folds of bibulous paper. 3. (Wohler.) Into sour whey, 2 lb., sprinkle sugar of milk and iron filings, of each, in fine powder, 1 oz.; digest at about 100° Fahr., until the sugar of milk is dissolved, then add a second portion, and as soon as a white crys- talline powder begins to form, boil the whole i gently, and filter into a clean vessel; lastly, collect, wash, and dry the crystals, as before. ^ Prop., S^c. Lactate of iron is a greenish- white salt; and when pure, forms small acicular i i or prismatic crystals, which have a sweetish | ferruginous taste, and are soluble in about 48 parts of cold and in 12 parts of boiling water. , It has been regarded by many high authorities