701 GLUCIC ACID—GLUE. t [ Cosmetic Gloves. Sj/n. Gants cosme- I TIQUES. These are mock kid or lambskin gloves M rubbed over, on the inside, .with the following >1 composition :—Spermaceti cerate, 3 oz.; melt, i! add of balsam of Peru, ^ dr., stir for 5 minutes, H and after a few minutes’ repose, pour off the «<| clear portion; to this add oi oil of nutmeg, i 15 drops ; oil of cassia and essence of ambergris, t’ of each, 6 drops; and stir until cold. Used by b ladies to soften the hands and to prevent or t cure chilblains and chaps. They are commonly :v worn all night in bed. I GLU'CIC ACID. Sgn. Kalisacchaeic acid. A substance produced by the action of alkalis ^ on sugar. I Prep. SsitvLTa.te2L solution of grape-sugar \^ith ^ lime or baryta, and set it aside; after some It weeks precipitate the solution with basic ace- ^ tate of lead, filter, wash the precipitate with Ii| water, diffuse it in water, decompose it by sul- «! phuretted hydrogen, and evaporate the filtered 0 liquor. \ Prop., S^c. Sour, soluble, deliquescent; its C salts (glucates) are all soluble, with the ex- V ception of that containing protoxide of lead. 1 GLUCI'NA. Syn. Oxide of glucinium, f Beetlla, Oxide of beeyllium. A pulveru- lent white subtance, discovered by M. Vau- I quelin, in 1798, and hitherto found only in the ^ BEEYL, EMEEALD, and EUCLASE. ® Prep. The beryl, in fine powder, 1 part; i carbonate of potassa, 3 parts; expose the mix- / ture to a strong red heat for half an hour, dis- • solve the calcined mass in hydrochloric acid, and evaporate the solution to dryness; redis- solve the residuum in very dilute hydrochloric > acid, and precipitate with pure liquor of am- monia ; wash the precipitate well, digest it 1 with a large quantity of carbonate of ammonia, '^filter, and boil the solution as long as CAE- BONATE OF GLUCINA subsides. By exposure to a red heat the carbonic acid may be expelled, and the earth rendered anhydrous. Prop., S^c. Glucina closely resembles alu- mina, from which, however, it is distinguished by its solubility when freshly precipitated in a cold solution of carbonate of ammonia, from which it is again thrown by boiling. Glucina is classed with the earths. The beryl contains 14g of this substance. (See below.) GLUCINTUM. Syn. Beeyl'lium. The me- tallic base of glucina (see above). It was first obtained by Wohler, in 1828, by a similar pro- cess to that adopted for aluminium, a metal which it greatly resembles. See Aluminum. GLU'COSE. See Sugae (Grape). GLUE. Syn. Gluten,Glutinum, L. ; Colle, j Colle foete, Fr. Inspissated animal jelly, or gelatine, used as a cement. Prep. Glue is principally prepared from the parings and waste-pieces of hides and skins, the refuse of tanneries, and the tendons and other offal of slaughter-houses. These sub- stances, when intended for the glue-maker, are steeped for 14 or 15 days in milk of j lime, then drained, and di’ied by exposure to the air. This constitutes what is termed the ‘ cleansing’ or 'preparation,’ and in this state the 'glue pieces,’ as they are called, may be kept for a long time, and transported to any distance without suffering decomposition. Be- fore conversion into glue, they are usually again steeped in weak milk of lime, and next well washed and exposed to the air for 24 to 30 hours. They are then placed in a copper boiler 2-3rds filled with water, and furnished with a perforated false bottom, to prevent them from burning, and as much is piled on as will fill the vessel and rest on the top of it. Heat is next applied, and the whole gently boiled or simmered together, until the liquor on cooling forms a firm gelatinous mass. The clear portion is then run off into another vessel, and a very small quantity of alurh (dis- solved) added; here it is kept hot by a water bath, and allowed to repose for some hours to deposit its impurities, after which it is run into the ^ congealing boxes,’ and placed in a cool situation. The next morning the cold gela- tinous masses are turned out upon boards wetted with water, and are cut horizontally into thin cakes with a stretched piece of brass wire, and then into smaller cakes with a moistened flat knife. The latter are placed on nettings to dry. The dry cakes of glue are next dipped one by one into hot water, and slightly rubbed with a brush wetted with boiling water, to give them a gloss; they are, lastly, stove-dried for sale. This furnishes the palest and best glue. - As soon as the liquor of the first boiling has drained off, the undissolved portion of skins, &c., left in the copper is treated with fresh water, and the whole operation is repeated again and again,, as long as any gelatinous matter is extracted. In this way a second and other inferior qualities of glue are obtained. The product from dried glue-pieces is about 50g. Var. These chiefly depend, on the care with which the process is conducted. Hatmakee’s GLUE is prepared from the tendons of the legs of neat cattle and horses., It is brown, opaque, and soft; and grows moist in damp weather, but it does not render felt brittle like the other varieties. Fish glue is made in like manner from various membranous and solid parts of fishes. Paechment glue is prepared from shreds or shavings of parchment, vellum, white leather, &c., dissolved by boiling them in water. It is scentless, and nearly colourless. Qual. The best glue is transparent, nearly colourless and tasteless, has very little smell, even when melted, and is extremely adhesive. The presence of more than a trace of alum is objectionable; an undue quantity may be easily detected by the usual tests. The strongest glue is that obtained from skins, more especially from the hides of oxen and cows. That obtained from the bones, carti- lages, and tendons, is weaker. Liq'uid Glue. Prep. (Dumoulins.) Soft water, 1 quart; best pale glue, 2 lb.; dissolve