970 OILS (IN PERFUMERY). stirring being employed all the time; the mix- ture is then removed from the heat, covered up, and left to settle until the next day, when the clear portion is decanted into clean bottles. When flowers are employed, the free oil is drained off, and the remainder obtained by the action of a press. The process is then repeated with fresh flowers, 5 or 6 times, or even oftener, until the oil is sufficiently per- fumed. For ambergris, musk, or civet, the digestion is generally continued for 15 to 20 days, during which time the vessel is either freely exposed to the sunshine, or kept in an equally warm situation. The ‘ first quality’ of the oils of amber- GEIS, BALSAM OF PeETJ, BENZOIN, CASSIA, CIN- NAMON, CIVET, ORANGE-FLOWERS, ORRIS, ROSES, STYRAX, and VANILLA, are made by infusion. 3. (By THE FLOWERS.)—a. Upon an iron frame a piece of white, spongy, cotton cloth is stretched, and then moistened with almond or olive oil, usually the latter; on the cloth is placed a thin layer of the fresh-plucked flowers; another frame is similarly treated, and in this way a pile of them is made. In 24 or 30 hours the flowers are replaced by fresh ones, and this is repeated every day or every other day, until 7 or 8 different lots of flowers have been consumed, or the oil is suffi- ciently loaded with their odour. The oil is then obtained from the cotton cloth by power- ful pressure, and is placed aside in bottles to settle, ready to be decanted into others for sale. Sometimes thin layers of cotton wool, slightly moistened with oil, are employed in- stead of cotton cloth. The OILS of HONEYSUCKLE, JASMIN, Or JESSAMINE, JONQUIL, MAY-BLOSSOM, MYRTLE- BLOSSOM, NARCISSUS, TUBEROSE, VIOLET, and, in general, of all the more delicate flowers, are prepared in the above manner. b. The native perfumers of India prepare their scented oils of bela, chumbul, jasmin, &c., in the following manner :—A layer of the scented flowers, about 4 inches thick and 2 feet square, is formed on the ground; over this is placed a layer of moistened tel or sesa- mum seeds, 2 inches thick, and on this ano- ther 4-inch layer of flowers. Over the whole a sheet is thrown, which is kept pressed down by weights attached round the edges. The flowers are replaced with fresh ones after the lapse of 24 hours, and the process is repeated a third and even a fourth time, when a very highly scented oil is desired. The swollen se~ samum seeds, rendered fragrant by contact with the flowers, are then submitted to the action of the press, by which their bland oil is obtained strongly impregnated with the aroma of the flowers. The expressed oil is then set aside in dubbers (bottles made of un- tanned hides) to settle. We have employed poppy seed in this country, in a similar man- ner, with great success. c. flowers are crushed in a mortar or mill, with one half their weight of blanched ' sweet almonds, and the next day the mass is gently heated and submitted to the action of a powerful press; the liquid thus obtained is allowed to repose for a week, when the upper portion of oil is decanted and filtered. This plan is occasionally adopted in this coun- try for the OILS of roses, and of a few other flowers. (See below.) The solution of a few grains of benzoic acid, or of gum benzoin (preferably the first), in any of the above oils, will materially retard the accession of rancidity, if it does not pre- vent it altogether. The oils of the last two classes (2 and 3) are chiefly used to impart their respective odours to the simple oils, pommades, &c.; and in the manufacture of scented spirits or esprits. The following formulse are given as examples of both classes of preparations Oil of Am'hergris. From ambergris, 2 dr.; o^7, 1 pint; by infusion. Oil of Ben'zoin. From gum benzoin, 7 dr.; oil, 1 pint; by infusion. Oils for the Hair. Sun. Huiles antiques, Fr. These are numerous. All those scented with the simple perfumes are prepared in the way explained under class 1 (above). The ■ selection depends entirely upon the judgment j of the operator, or the fancy of the purchaser. In general, a mixture of two or three per- fumes is preferred in these countries to the i pure fragrance of any single flower, and a grossness of taste is exhibited in these matters which surprises our Continental neighbours, | and the inhabitants of Italy more particularly, j Some of these oils are coloured. A red tinge is given to them by allowing the oil to stand for a few hours over a little alkanet root (2 dr. to the pint) before scenting it. The applica- tion of a gentle heat facilitates the process. Yellow and orange are given by a little an- not la or palm oil; and green, by steeping a little green parsley or lavender in them for a few days; or by dissolving 2 or 3 dr. of gum guaiacum in each pint, by the aid of heat, and, when cold, decanting the clear portion. Huile ANTIQUE AU JASMIN, HUILE ANTIQUE A LI FLEURS d’ORANGES, HUILE ANTIQUE A LA ROSE, HUILE ANTIQUE A LA TUBEROSE, HUILE AN- TIQUE A LA viOLETTE, *&c., are simple oih flavoured with the respective perfumes or theii preparations.—Huile antique rouge a la ROSE is the ordinary oil of roses coloured witl alkanet root.—Huile antique verte is sim- ple oil coloured green as above, and scented.— Huile antique aux mille-fleurs is sc scented with several perfumes that none pre- dominate. A mixture of bergamotte, lemons lavender, neroli, pimento, and ambergris oi musk, is commonly employed for the purpose. Macas'sar Oil. Syn. Huile de mac as sab. Prep. 1. (Rowland’s.) Oil of ben or almond' (reddened by alkanet root), 1 pint; oils Oj ^ rosemary and origanum (white), of each, 1 dr. , oil of nutmeg and attar of roses, of each, R