BOOKBINDING. 342 The PROCESS of BINDING BOOKS is divided into several distinct operations, which, in large establishments, are nsually performed by dif- ferent persons; such a method being found to produce greater expedition, and better work, than w'hen the whole is done by one person. The sheets received from the hands of the printer are— 1. Folded, which is done correctly by ob- serving the ‘marks’ or ‘signatures’ at the bottom of the pages. As the sheets are folded they are laid upon each other in proper order, and are ready to undergo-— 2. The operation of heating. This is per- formed by either laying them upon a large stone, and striking them with a heavy smoothed- faced hammer, or by passing them through a rolling-press. The former method is usually adopted in the small way, and the latter on the large scale. 3. The sheets are next fastened to bands, which is done by taking them up one by one, and sewing them to pieces of cord, stretched in a little frame screwed or fastened to the counter or table, called the sewing-press. (See engr.) The number of bands used, is generally 6 for a folio, 5 for a quarto, and so on proportionally, less than 4 being seldom em- ployed even for small sizes. The ends of the cords being cut off to within about 2 inches of the back, the sheets are ready for-— 4. Glueing. The ‘back’ being knocked into shape with a hammer, and the ‘ sheets’ placed in the cutting-press, which is then slightly screwed up, melted glue is thinly and evenly applied. After a short time to permit it to become sufficiently set and hard, the ‘ book’ is removed from the press, and the back pro- perly adjusted with a hammer, vi\\en it is again put into the cutting-press, where it is screwed up very tight, and is then ready for— 5. Cutting. The instrument employed for this purpose is of a peculiar shape, and called a ‘plough' or ^plough-knife' which consists of a stout flat knife, double-edged at the ‘cut- ting point,’ firmly set in a kind of frame, in which it may be adjusted by screws. 6. Affixing the hoards. The hands are now scraped out fine at the ends, and fastened to the pasteboard intended to form the covers, which is then properly adjusted, and further shaped, if necessary, wdth a large pair of shears. The edges now undergo the operation of—■ 7. Sprinkling, gilding, or other adornment. The first is performed with a stiff brush made of hog’s bristles, dipped in the colour ; the brush being held in the one hand, and the hairs moved with the other, so as to scatter the colour in minute drops equally over the surface. 8. The external covering of leather, fancy cloth, or paper, is now applied, having been previously soaked in paste, to make it properly adhere. One or more of the blank leaves of the book are next pasted against the inside of the cover, to screen the ends that are turned over, when the book is finished; or for choice work, is handed to a ‘finisher’ for— 9. Lettering, gilding, Sfc. Ordinary gold-leaf is applied by means of white-of-egg, the pattern being given by pressure with heated brass- tools, having the design or letters on their sur * faces. The whole is then glazed over with white-of-egg, and polished. The succession of the above operations sometimes slightly varies with the workmen, and with the nature of the binding. The examination of a bound book during their perusal will, however, render the whole quite familiar to the reader. There are several varieties of binding, of which only the following deserve notice here:— Boards. A book rather loosely done up, without cutting the edges, and covered with coloured paper or cloth, is said to be in ‘ boards’ Cloth, Cloth-binding, This is the style of binding in which the majority of works are now issued. It admits of great neatness and even beauty, is cheap, and when well executed is very durable.—The prepared cloth (hard- glazed or varnished calico), cut by a ‘ pattern’ to the proper size, is passed rapidly between the engraved cylinders of a ‘ rolling-press,’ by which the design is given to it. Paste is now applied to each piece of cloth, which is then placed over the ‘ volume’ previously prepared to receive it. In many cases the ‘ covers’ are prepared separately before being embossed, and are afterwards fastened in the finished state to the book by means of a piece of canvas or calico previously affixed to its back for the purpose, when all that is required is to paste the ends of it to the inside of the ‘boards,’ with the last blank leaf over it. Books ‘ in cloth’ are seldom cut at the edges, unless they are otherwise highly finished. Half-binding. Books ‘ forwarded ’ in boards, and ‘ finished’ with leather backs and corners, are said to be ‘ half-bound.’ Leather-binding. A book is only said to be ‘bound,’ or ‘fully bound,’ wffien both its back and sides are wholly covered with one piece of leather.—The leather is wetted by immersion in water, wrung or squeezed, stretched on a smooth board, cut to the proper size, pared thin on the edges, and covered with paste. It is then applied to the book (pre- viously forwarded in boards, and cut), drawn tightly over it, turned down on the inside.