ELAIDIC ACID. 541 1. n 1 I ) The addition of fresh salad oil vastly increases their medicinal virtues. A fresh egg is said to contain about the same amount of nourishment as 1^ Qz. of fresh meat and 1 oz, of wheaten bread, hut in a more digestible form. White of ego (albumen ovi), and yolk OF EGG (viTELLUS OYi), are officinal in the rii. L. The first has been already noticed under Albumen. The second is an ingredient in the beandy mixtuee (mixtuea spieitus viNi GALLici) of the London College. It . is also a popular application to chaps, cracked j nipples, abrasions, &c., and is largely used to i render oleaginous substances miscible with water, in the preparation of emulsions. The average weight of the new-laid egg of a hen is about 2^ oz., and its sp. gr. is 1’080 to 1’090; the ivhite generally weighs about 1^ oz.; the yolk, a little under f oz,; and the shell and skin, oz. Dr. Prout found that an egg, on being kept for 2 years in a dry situation, lost 544 -fg gr., from the evaporation of a portion of its water through the shell. By boiling in water an egg loses from 2§ to 3g of its weight. Choice. The larger end of a new-laid egg feels cold when placed against the tongue. New-laid eggs appear semi-transparent when placed between the eye and a strong light, and have a small and perceptible division of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air. This mode of examination among the trade is called ‘ candling.’ When they shake they are stale. The eggs of turkeys and pea-hens are much esteemed for some purposes; those of ducks and geese are coarse and inferior. Pres. Eggs may be preserved for any length of time by excluding them from the air. One of the cleanest and easiest methods of doing this is to pack them with the small end down- wards, in clean dry salt, in barrels or tubs, and i to place them in a cool and dry situation. We | have eaten eggs thus preserved that were more i than a twelvemonth old, and that had been { for some months on shipboard, in a tropical | climate, and which yet retained all the peculiar sweetness of new-laid eggs. With a like in- tention, eggs are placed in vessels containing milk of lime, or strong brine, or are rubbed over with butter, lard, or gum water, all of which act by excluding the air. Eggs for keeping should never be laid on their sides, and when kept in the air should be occasionally turned to prevent the yolk attaching itself to the side, instead of floating in the albumen. Some persons place the eggs in a netting, or on a sieve or colander, and immerse them for an instant in a caldron of boiling water, before packing them away. The practice of packing eggs in damp straw, or anything else that can convoy a flavour, should be carefully avoided. The shells of eggs are porous, and readily admit the passage of gaseous substances, espe- cially of fetid odours. It is from inattention to this point that a large portion of the eggs imported from the coast of France have a less delicate flavour than those of our poultry yards. Damp chopped-straw, as well as most other organic substances exposed to warmth and moisture, readily ferment or putrefy; and during fermentation a considerable increase of temperature takes place, as any one may readily perceive by examining the common hotbeds in our gardens, which are merely masses of organic matter in a state of decom- position. Eggs, as long as they retain the embryo of the future chick, in a vital state, possess in themselves a certain degree of warmth, which tends materially to promote the decomposition of the substances they are packed in, particularly in the presence of moisture. Elas'tic Egg. Take a good and sound egg, place it in strong vinegar, and allow it to remain for 12 hours; it will then become quite soft and elastic. In this state it can be squeezed into a tolerably wide-mouthed bottle ; when in, it must be covered with water, having a little soda dissolved in it. In a few hours the egg will be restored to nearly its original solidity; after which the liquid may be poured off, and the bottle dried, the whole being kept as a curiosity to puzzle one^s friends for an explanation how the egg got there. (‘ Parlour Pastime.’) Glaire of Egg. Prep. Separate the whites from the yolks, and whisk them to a froth, let them stand 24 hours, and strain them through muslin. Used as a glaze or varnish by bookbinders and others. Egg Flip. Prep. 1. Beer, 1 pint; eggs, 3 in no.; sugar, 2 oz.; nutmeg and ginger, q. s. to flavour; the eggs are broken into one half of the beer, the sugar added, and the whole beaten w^ell together; the mixture is then placed in a clean ‘ warmer,’ and heated over the fire to nearly the boiling-point, and stirred one way all the time, care being taken not to let it either boil or curdle; the other portion of the beer and the spices are then added, and the whole mixed well together. 2. As above, but adding a glass of spirit. Some persons also add a little lemon peel. Egg Liq'nid. Prep. (Jayne). From lime, 1 bushel (slaked with water); common salt, 2 or 3 lb.; cream of tartar, ^ lb.; water, q.s. to form a mixture strong enough to float an egg. Used to preserve eggs, which it is stated it will do for two years, by simply keeping them in it. OiTce patented. Simple milk of lime answers quite as well. Egg Wine. As egg flip, but using equal parts of white wine and water instead of beer. ELAID'IC ACID. A fatty acid resembling MAEGAEic ACID, obtained from elaidine I (which see), and by the action of nitrous acid * on OLEIC ACID. Prep. (Meyer.) A current of nitrous acid gas is passed through pure oleic acid, at a low temperature, for about 5 minutes; the crys- talline mass, that shortly afterwards forms, is