736 HYDROCHLORATE -HYDROCHLORIC ACID. or jalap), a liberal supply of nutriineiifc, and exercise in a pui’e atmosphere. The bleeding can only be performed by a surgeon, but the otiier part of the treatment may be safely had recourse to by emigrants and others, in the absence of medical assistance. HYDROCHLO"RATE. Syn. Chloehy- DEATE, MUEIATE; HyDEOCHLOEAS, MuEIAS, L. A salt of hydrochloric acid. See Chlo- EIDE, and below. HYDR0CHL0"RIC ACID. Syn. Ciiloeide OF HYDEOGEN, ChLOEHYGEIC ACID, MUEIATIC A.*, MaEINE A.f, A. OF SALTf, SpIEIT OF S.f; Acidu:m hydeoculoeicum (Ph. L.), A. mtj- EIATICU3I (Ph. E. & D.), SpIEITUS SALIsf, L. An acid compound of chlorine and hydrogen, long known in the state of solution, under the names of ‘ marine acid * and ‘ spirit of salt but first obtained in the pure or gaseous form by Priestley, in 1772. Prep. This compound may be formed by the direct synthesis of equal volumes of chlorine and hydrogen, but it is usually prepared by the action of sulphuric acid on common salt. If the gas be required, it is collected over mercury j if the solution (liquid hydeo- CHLOEic acid), the gas is passed into cold dis- tilled water. 1. PhAEMACOPCEIAL FOEMULiE, STEEXGTHS, &C. a. Ph. L. 1851';—a. (Acidum hydeochloe- ICUM.) No formula of preparation is given, but it is ordered to be prepared from chloride of sodium, and to have a sp. gr. of 1*160. It contains 32*32§ of real acid. (5. (A. H. DiLUTUM.) The addition of 3 measures of distilled water to 1 measure of the above reduces it to the ‘dilute acid.’ Sp. gr. 1*043. “ A fiuid ounce is saturated by 168 gr. of the crystals of carbonate of soda.” b. Ph. L. 1836. (A. mueiaticum.) Sul- phuric acid, 20 oz.; water, 12 fl. oz.; mix in a retort, and when cold, add of dried chloride of sodium, 2 lb., and gradually distil in a sand bath into a receiver containing water 12 fl. oz. Sp. gr. 1*160. c. Ph. E. 1841:—a. (A. M. PUEUM.) Dried purifed chloride of sodium and pure sulphuric acid, of each, 3 parts; water, 1 part (both by weight); mix as last, and distil with a gentle heat into a well-cooled receiver containing ivater, 2 parts, as long as any liquid passes over. Sp. gr. 1*170. Contains 34*2g of the gas. Nearly pure. Obs. The salt is purified by crystallization. /8. (A. M. DILUTUM.) 1 measure of acid (Ph. E.) to 3 measures of water. Sp. gr. 1*050. d. Ph. D. 1850:—a. (A. M. PUEUM.) Simi- lar to the Ph. E. formula. Sp. gr. 1*176. Contains 35*4g of the gas. (3. (A. M. DILUTUM.) 4 measures of acid (Ph. D.) to 13 of water. Sp. gr. 1*045. 2. (PuEE—Gregory.) Pure dried chloride of sodium, 3 parts, and pure sulphuric acid, 5 parts, diluted with water, q. s. to reduce the i I sp. gr. to 1*6 (about 2' parts), are mi.xed in an alembic (or glass flask) furnished with a double-bent tube, the end of which is plunged about ^rd of an inch beneath the surface of the distilled water in the receiver (about 3 parts), the latter being surrounded by ice or ice-cold water; a gentle heat is now applied and continued as long as any gas comes over. In about 2 hours the process is finished, and the water in the receiver has increased 2-3rds In volume, and has the sp. gr. 1*14 to 1*15. By dividing the water between two receivers, connected together, that in the first one will be a fuming acid, sp. gr. 1*21; that in the last one, about sp. gr. 1*12. 3. (CoMMEECiAL.) By the action of sul- phuric acid on common salt in the ‘ alkali manufacture,’ hydrochloric acid is evolved in such quantities that a special Act of Parlia- ment was passed in 1863 to compel the owners of alkali works to provide arrangements for condensing not less than 95g of the gas. . When prepared for its own sake, ‘ commercial muriatic acid ’ is made by heating, in iron cy- linders, common salt with brown sulphuric acid, and condensing the evolved gas in water contained in a series of stoneware ‘ Wolfe’s bottles.’ 4. (Gaseous.) This is obtained as above, or by gently heating the liquid acid and col- lecting the evolved gas over mercury. Prop. Pure hydrochloric acid is a colourless, i invisible gas, having a pungent odour and an acid taste, and fuming on coming into contact i with moist air. It is irrespirable and unin- ;; flammable. Its sp. gr. is 1*2695 (Berzelius). ( Exposed to a pressure of 40 atmospheres, it t becomes liquid. Water at 40° Fahr. absorbs i 480 times its volume of this gas, and acquires i the sp. gr. 1*2109 (Davy), and the volume is ? increased from 100 to 142 (Ure). In this in state the liquid contains about 42g of real I acid. The solution (liquid nYDEOcnLOEic acid), ' when pure, is colourless, fumes in the air, ? evolves a strong odour of hydrochloric acid I gas, is intensely sour, reddens vegetable blues, i and erodes organic substances. The acid gas i is given off when this solution is boiled. It dissolves many of the metals with the evolution of hydrogen gas; it also dissolves metallic oxides, hydrates, and carbonates; in each case forming the compounds termed CIIloeides, MUEIATES, or HYDEOCHLOEATES. The hydl’O- : chloric acid of commerce has generally a straw- yellow colour, and a sp. gr. ranging between \ 1*16 and 1*17, and is generally very impure. j Pur. Pure hydrochloric acid (solution) Is “ free from colour. Exposed to the air, it evolves white and extremely acrid vapours. It is entirely dissipated by heat. Diluted with distilled water, no ])recipitate is formed on the addition of chloride of barium, ammo- nia, or sesquicarbonate of ammonia. It has no action on gold leaf, even when this is boiled in it, nor does any precipitate fall if proto- ^