1099 PLATE—PLATINUM. :itute an equal weight of litharge for the raphite. ; PLATE. The name commonly given to gold nd silver wrought into instruments or utensils )r domestic use. The cleaning of plate is an important opera- ion In a large establishment, as its durability, nd much of its beauty, depend on this being roperly done. The common practice of using . EECUEIAL PLATE-POWDEE is destructive to oth of these, as mercury not only rapidly irodes the surface of silver, but renders it lifter, and, in extreme cases, even brittle. !'he only powder that may be safely used for •ILTEE is prepared chalk, of the best quality, i'or GOLD, the form of red oxide of iron, known |s jeweller's rouge, is the most useful and ap- ropriate. Chamois leather, a plate-brush, or ^erf soft woollen rags, should alone be used to ipply them; and their application should be |entle and long continued, rather than the everse. Dirty plate, after being cleaned with \oiling water, may be restored by boiling it in mter, each quart of which contains a few rains of carbonate of soda, and about an ounce f prepared chalk, calcined hartshorn, or cuttle- sh bone, in very fine powder. The ebullition ets up a gentle friction, which effects its urpose admirably. The boiled plate, after eing dried, is best 'finished oft’^ with a piece f srft leather or woollen cloth which has been ipped into the cold mixture of chalk and j/ater, and then dried. The same method jnswers admirably with Geeman silvee, iiEASS, PEWTEE, and all the softer metals. I'ee PowDEE (Plate), &c. 1 PLAT IN A. See Platinum. i PLA"TING. The art of covering copper 1 nd other metals with either silver or gold. I Plating is performed in various ways, tiometimes the silver is fluxed on to the sur- ace of the copper by means of a solution of |)orax, and subsequent exposure in the ‘ plating I'urnace,* and the compound ingot is then rolled to the requisite thinness between cylin- llers of polished steel. The common thickness Ilf the silver plate before rolling is equal to jibout the l-40th of that of the compound ngot. Sometimes the nobler metal is pre- I'ipitated from its solutions upon the copper liy the action of chemical affinity, or, more requently, by the agency of electro-chemical lecomposition (electeo-plating). The metal employed for plating is a mixture )f copper and brass, annealed or hardened, as the case may require. For electro-plated ;oods, ‘nickel silver’ is now almost invariably nnployed. See Electbotype {page 546), Gilding, Platinizing, Silyeeing, &c. PLATTNIZING. Metals may be coated with datinum by nearly similar processes to those jilready referred to under Plating. In the 1 moist way,' vessels of brass, copper, and silver, we conveniently platinized in the following manner:—Solid bichloride of platinum, 1 part, .s dissolved in water, 100 parts, and to this solution is added of common salt, 8 parts; or, still better, 1 part of ammonio-chloride of platinum and 8 parts of hydrochlorate of am- monia are placed in a suitable porcelain vessel, with about 40 parts of water, and the whole heated to ebullition; the vessels or utensils, previously made perfectly bright, are then immersed in the boiling liquid. In a few seconds they generally acquire a brilliant and firmly adhering layer of platinum. Silvee plates for voltaic batteeies are commonly platinized by immersing them for a few seconds in a mixture of saturated solution of bichloride of platinum, 1 part; dilute sid- phuric acid, 3 parts; water, 4 to 6 parts. Platinum batteey-plates are covered with a pulverulent deposit of platinum by means of the electrotype. Platinized asbestos is prepared by dipping into a solution of bichloride of platinum, or one of the double chlorides of that metal, and then gradually heating it to redness. It is used as a substitute for spongy platinum. See Electeotype, Voltaic Electeicity. PLATINUM. Syn. Platina, White gold; Platinum, L. A heavy, grayish-white metal, occurring chiefly in certain of the alluvial dis- tricts of Mexico and Brazil, in the Ural Moun- tains of Russia, in Ceylon, and in a few other places. It occurs in nature under the form of grains and small rolled masses, associated with PALLADIUM, EHODIUM, OSMIUM, EUTHENIUM, lEiDiUM, and a little ieon. It has only been known in Europe since 1748. Prep. The native alloy of this metal (CEUDE platinum) is acted upon, as far as possible, by nitro-hydrochloric acid, containing an excess of hydrochloric acid, and slightly diluted with water, in order to dissolve as small a quantity of ieidium as possible; to the deep yellowish-red and high acid solution thus produced sal ammoniac is added, by which nearly the whole of the platinum is thrown down in the state of ammonio-chloride. This substance, after being washed with a little cold water, is dried and heated to redness; the product is spongy metallic platinum. This is made into a thin uniform paste with water, introduced into a slightly conical mould of brass, and subjected to a graduated pressure, by which the water is squeezed out, and the mass rendered at length sufficiently solid to hear handling. It is next dried, very care- fully heated to whiteness, and hammered, or subjected to powerful pressure by suitable means, whilst in the heated state. It will now bear forging into a bar, and may after- wards be rolled into plates, or drawn into wire, at pleasure. Prop., S^c. Platinum is the heaviest sub- stance known, its sp. gr. being 21*5. It is whiter than iron, harder than silver, infusible in the strongest heat of our furnaces, and melts only when exposed to the highest tem- perature obtainable by Ueville’s oxyhydeogen GAS pyENAQE, It is upaftegt§d by air, wateri