MERCURY. 904 together. Dose, ^'g to'i gr., dissolved in water; in the same cases as the biniodide, and in chronic bronchitis, hooping-cough, inflamma- tory sore throat, &c. lodo-chlo"rides of Mercury. Several pre- parations containing both chloride and iodide of mercury have been proposed for medicinal use. Two of them, at least, appear to be well- defined double salts:— Prep. 1. (Boutigny.) By heating calomel, 4 equivalents, in a retort until it commences to sublime, when iodine, 2 equiv., are gradually added. The product is commonly known as ‘ IODIDE OE CALOMEL.’ 2. (Boutigny.) Crystals of calomel are sus- pended in a stoppered bottle, at the bottom of which is placed some iodine ; after a time the crystals assume a red colour,- and are then removed, and preserved in a w'ell-stoppered bottle. 3. (Boutigny.) From equal equivalents of calomel and iodine, as No. 1. This is com- monly known as ‘ biniodide oe calomel.’ 4. (Lassaigne.) Add a solution of corrosive sublimate to an alcoholic solution of iodine until the colour disappears, then gently eva- porate and crystallize. 5. (Caventou.) Red iodide of mercury is dissolved in rectified spirit holding an equal weight of bichloride of mercury in solution, and the liquid is either gently concentrated so that crystals may form, or it is at once eva- porated to dryness. Obs. These preparations possess considerable remedial power in certain complaints, but their precise action has not yet been deter- mined. They are said to combine the proper- ties of their constituents, but to be more active than either of them. Bose. 55 to Jg gr. M. Recamier has recommended the last one as a powerful discutient. It is principally used in the form of ointment. lodo-cy'anide of Mercury and Potassium. Syn. Hydeaegyei et potassii iodo-cyani- DUM, L. Prep. To a concentrated solution of cyanide of mercury add a rather strong solution of iodide of potassium, and dry the precipitate by a gentle heat. Prop., Sfc. Small, white, pearly, crystalline plates or scales. It is chiefly used as a test of the purity of hydrocyanic acid. When put into this liquid, it is instantly turned red if any mineral acid is present. Ni'trates of Mercury. Nitric acid varies in its action upon mercury, according to the tem- perature. When cold and somewhat diluted, only salts of the suboxide or gray oxide are formed; and these are either neutral or basic, just as the acid or the metal happens to be in excess. When, however, the nitric acid is concentrated and hot, the mercury is raised to its highest state of oxidation, and a salt of the red oxide is produced. Both classes of salts are apt to be decomposed by a large quantity of waiter, giving rise to insoluble or sparingly soluble compounds, containing an excess of! base, which are rendered more and more basic as the w’ashing is prolonged, or the tempera- ture of the water raised. Several compounds of nitric acid and tlie oxides of mercury are named by chemical wu’iters, of which only tW'O, or at most three, are of practical import- ance. 1. Subni'trate of Mercury. Syn. Mee- CUEOUS NITEATE, NiTEATE OE MEECUEY, Nl- teate oe suboxide oe m., Protoniteate oe M.f ; Hydeaegyei subniteas, H. niteas, H. PEOTONiTEAS, L. Prep. 1. (Neuteal.) By digesting mercury in excess of cold dilute ni- tric acid, observing to remove the short pris- matic crystals within a short time after they are formed; these, wdien drained, and redis- solved in water slightly acidulated with nitric acid, furnish crystals of pure ‘ neuteal sub- NiTEATE OE MEECUEY by cautious evapora- tion. 2. (Basic.) Deposited after some time, when excess of mercury has been employed as above. A finely crystallized salt. Prop., 4’C. Both the above are decomposed by water, but the former may be dissolved in a very small quantity without decomposition. When the neutral salt is triturated with an excess of chloride of sodium, and w'ater sub- sequently added, the whole of the mercury is tlirown down as calomel, and the filtered supernatant liquid does not contain corrosive sublimate. If this last salt is detected, the salt examined contained peroxide of mercury ; and if any basic nitrate of the suboxide w\as present, the newly formed calomel has a gray or black colour, due to presence of oxide. Dose. Of the neutral salts, -j'g to ^ gr. It is seldom used internally. A solution is sometimes em- ployed as a mild caustic to ulcers; and, more dilute, as a lotion in lepra, porrigo, psoriasis, &c.; or made into an ointment, in the same diseases. 2. Protoni'trate of Mercury. Syn. Mee- CUEIC NITEATE, NiTEATE OE PEOTOXIDE OF MEECUEY, N. OE EED OXIDE OF M., N. OF PEEOXIDE OE M.*, PeENITEATE OF M.; HY- DEAEGYEI NITEAS, H. PEENITEAS*, L. Prep. 1. (Neuteal.) This is obtained by solution of red oxide of mercury in excess of nitric acid. The solution, evaporated in a bell-jar over sulphuric acid or lime, yields crystals which are neutral. The same compound is obtained as a crystalline powder when the syrupy liquid is dropped into strong nitric acid. 2. (Basic.) The following formulae give basis protonitrates:—a. By saturating hot dilute nitric acid wuth red oxide of mercury. The salt, wdiich is bibasic, crystallizes on cool- b. By dissolving mercury in excess of nitric acid, with heat, until the solution, when di- luted with distilled water, ceases to give a precipitate with common salt. It is now a mixed solution of the neutral and bibasic pernitrates; but by evaporation crystals of