SILICA—SILVER. 1196 2. By the use of transfer ink and litho- graphy. SILICA. Syn. Silex, Silicic acid, Si- liceous EAETH t, Earth of flints f. This exists in quartz and rock crystal in a nearly pure state. The sands of rivers and the sea- shore, flint, and almost all the scintillating stones, chiefly consist of it. It may be ob- tained in a state of absolute purity by passing gaseous fluoride of silicon into water, collecting the resulting gelatinous precipitate on a calico filter, washing it with distilled water, drying it, and heating it to redness. Another method is to precipitate a solution of silicate of soda or potassa (soluble glass) with dilute hydro- chloric acid, and to treat the precipitate as before. Prop., &(c. A fine, white, tasteless, infusible powder, insoluble in all acids, after being heated, except the hydrofluoric; soluble in strong alkaline solutions; its salts are called SILICATES. Sp. gr. 2-66. See Glass, Solu- BLE Glass, &c. SIL'ICO-FLU'ORIDES. Double fluorides formed by precipitating or saturating hydro- fluosilicic acid with the bases. SILICON. Syn. Silicium. An elemen- tary substance forming the base of silica. It was first procured by Berzelius in 1824, by the action of potassium on hydrofluosilicic acid ; but it is more conveniently obtained from the silicofluoride of potassium, previously dried, at nearly a red heat. This substance is gently heated with nearly an equal weight of po- tassium, in a glass tube, and the resulting compound washed with cold water ; the insolu- ble residuum is silicon, under the form of a dark brown powder. Prop., &cc. Silicon is destitute of metallic lustre, and is a bad conductor of electricity and heat properties which justify its being classed with the non-metallic elements. When heated in oxygen gas, it passes to the state of SILICA. When heated with hydrate of potassa, a violent reaction takes place, and silicate OF POTASSA is formed, while hydrogen is libe- rated. Hydrofluoric acid acts upon silicon, converting it into terfluoeide of silicon, with escape of hydrogen. The teechloeide and TEEBEOMIDE OF SILICON are colourless, volatile liquids, with low boiling-points. See Hydrofluosilicic Acid, &c. SILE. As an article of clothing, as far as roundness of fibre, softness of texture, ab- sence of attraction for moisture, and power of communicating warmth, are concerned, silk is greatly superior to both linen and cotton; moreover it gives the sensation of freshness to the touch which is so agreeable in linen. But, with all these advantages, silk (when worn next the body) has its defects; on the slightest friction, it disturbs the electricity of the skin, and thus becomes a source of irritation. Sometimes, it is true, this irritation is advan- tageous, as causing a determination of blood to the surface; but when this action is not required, it is disagreeable, and quite equa in a sensitive constitution, to producing a eruption on the skin. I have seen eruptioi occasioned in this manner, and, when the' have not occurred, so much itching and irr tation as to call for the abandonment of tl garment.*’ (Eras. Wilson.) Silk is characterised by its fibres appearhi perfectly smooth and cylindrical, without d( pressions, even under a magnifying power (, 160. Its flbres (even when dyed) acquire permanent straw-yellow colour when steepe in nitric acid of the sp. gr. 1'20 to 1‘30. Th fibres of white or light coloured silk are simi larly stained by a solution of picric acid. , thread of silk, when inflamed, shrivels an burns with difficulty, evolves a peculiar odoui and leaves a bulky charcoal. By these pr€ perties silk is distinguished from cotton an LINEN. The cleaning and renovation of articles c wearing apparel made of silk are matter requiring some care. No silk goods look we after being washed, however carefully it ma be done; and this method should therefor never be resorted to, but from absolute nece; sity. It is recommended to sponge faded silk with warm water and curd soap, then to ru them with a dry cloth on a flat board, am; afterwards to iron them on the wrong sid with an ordinary smoothing iron. Spongin with .spirit, benzol, or pure oil of turpentini also greatly improves old silk, and is oftei preferable to any other method. The odou of the benzol passes off very quickly, that o the turpentine after exposure for a few days When the ironing is done on the right side thin paper should be spread over the surface^ to prevent ‘ glazing.* See Dyeing, Gilding &c kLK'WORM GUT. (See page 721.) SIL'LABUB. Prep. Grate off the yelloh peel of a lemon with lump sugar, and dissolvt the sugar in f pint of wine ; add the juice Oj. 5 a lemon, and a ^ pint of cream; beat thi whole together until of a proper thickness and then put it into glasses. Obs. f to 1 pint of new milk is often sub stituted for the cream, and strong cider oi perry for the wine. Grated nutmeg is offer added. When ‘whipped* to a froth, it ii called ‘WHIPPED sillabub.* See Ceean (Whipped). SIL'VER. Syn. Aegentum, L. Thii, metal, like gold, appears to have been a much valued in the remotest ages of antiquity of which we have any record, as at the presen time. It is found in nature both in the me tallic state and mineralized, in the state o alloy, and combined with sulphur, chlorine and other metallic sulphurets. The most iin portant silver mines are those of the Andes, ii North and South America. In Great Britaii it is found in combination chiefly with lead It is extracted from its ores principally by th« process of amalgamation, founded on its easjj!