l022 OXYGEN. existence should have remained unsuspected, or at least undetermined, until a recent date. Oxygen is an essential constituent of all living organisms. It is absorbed by animals during respiration, and evolved in a free state by growing vegetables when exposed to sunlight. The oxygen gas of the atmosphere is mechani- cally mixed with the nitrogen, but is chemi- cally free or uncombined. Prep. 1. From red oxide of mercury, heated over a spirit lamp or a few pieces of ignited charcoal. The operation is usually performed in a small green-glass retort, or in a short tube of hard Bohemian glass, closed with a perforated cork furnished with a piece of bent glass tube of small bore, to convey the liberated gas to the vessel arranged to receive it. Pure. 1 oz. yields about 100 cubic inches. 2. From chlorate of potassa, as the last. Pure. 100 gr. yield nearly 100 cubic inches (Brande; 115—tire). This is the plan adopted in the P. Cod. The decomposition occurs with both the above substances at a heat below that of redness. 3. From a mixture of chlorate of potassa (in coarse powder), 3 parts; powdered binox- ide of manganese, 1 part; both by volume. Pure. 100 gr. of the mixture yield about 110 cubic inches of oxygen. This method, which has received the approval of Faraday, is exceedingly convenient. The gas is evolved with a rapidity which is entirely at the com- mand of the operator, by simply increasing or lessening the heat. The residuum in the retort may be kept for another operation, if not exhausted; or it may be at once washed out with a little warm water, and the man- ganese, which is uninjured by the process, reserved for future use. Red lead, black oxide of copper, sesquioxide of iron (‘ crocus ^), and several other substances, answer nearly as well as binoxide of manganese. • 4. From a mixture of bichromate of po- tassa, 3 parts; oil of vitriol, 4 parts; gently heated, as before. Yields pure oxygen very freely, and with a rapidity entirely at the will of the operator. (Balmain.) 5. From binoxide of manganese and oil of vitriol, equal parts; as the last. 44 gr. of pure binoxide of manganese yield 8 gr., or 24 cubic inches, of oxygen; 1^ oz. yields 88 gr., or 256 cubic inches. (Liebig.) 6. (On the large scale.)—a. From nitre ex- posed to a dull red heat in an iron retort or gun-barrel. 1 lb. yields about 1200 cubic inches of gas, contaminated, more or less, with nitrogen. (Ure.) b. From binoxide of manganese, as the last. 1 oz. of the pure binoxide yields 44 gr., or 128 cubic inches, of oxygen (Liebig); 1 lb, of good commercial binoxide yields from 1500 to 1600 cubic inches, or from 5 to 6 gall. c. M. Boussingault has reinvestigated a process, long known, although not usefully applied, by which pure oxygen gas may be obtained from the atmosphere at a trifling cost, so as to enable it to be collected in unlimited quantities and preserved in gas- ometers, like coal-gas, for application in the arts, manufactures, and sanitation. This process depends upon a peculiar property possessed by the earth baetta, of absorbing atmospheric oxygen at one temperature and evolving it at another; or rather, the ready conversion of hydeate op baetta into peb- oxiDE OP BAEIUM by a current of AXiro- SPHEEic AiE at a dull red heat, and the decomposition of this peroxide, by steam, at a lower temperature, even at 212° Fahr., with reproduction of hydrate of baryta, the process being in reality a continuous one. The baryta is mixed with a portion of hydrate of lime or of magnesia, and the mixture being placed in an appropriate earthen tube heated to dull redness, is oxidized by passing a current of dry atmospheric air over it. As soon as the oxidation is complete, the tube is connected with the gas-holder, and a jet of steam allowed to act upon it; this reconverts the peroxide of barium into hydrate of baryta, the excess of oxygen being given off and col- lected in the gas-holder. The baryta is then again oxidized by a fresh current of air and deoxidized by steam, and the whole process is repeated as frequently as required. One ton of baryta, thus treated, is capable of yielding 2500 cubic feet of pure oxygen every 24 hours; and this, as it does not waste or lose its pro- perties, at the mere cost of the fuel and labour required in the process. d, Provo, ferrate of potassa} prepared on the large scale. When exposed to moisture or thrown into water, pure oxygen is evolved. This method has been successfully adopted to maintain the air of diving-bells, and of other confined spaces, in a state fit for respiration. Prop. Oxygen gas is colourless, tasteless, inodorous, and incombustible; the sp. gr. is 1*057 (Dumas; 1*1026—Berzelius & Dulong; 1*111—Thomson); 100 cubic inches at 60° Fahr., and 36 inches of the barometer, weigh 34*29 gr. (Dumas; 34*109 gr.—Berz.; 34*6 gr. —Brande; 33*85 gr.—Ure). Its density to that of atmospheric air is, therefore, as about 11 to 10. It is a powerful supporter of com- bustion, and its presence is essential to the existence of both animal and vegetable life. It forms 21g (20*81^) by volume, and23g by weight, of the atmosphere. (M. Dumas.) Water dis- solves about 5g by volume of oxygen, and by pressure a much larger quantity, forming oxy- genated water (aqtta oxTaENii). Tests. 1. It is distinguished from other gases by yielding nothing but pure water when mixed with twice its volume of hydrogen and exploded, or w^hen a jet of hydrogen is burnt in it.—2. A recently extinguished taper, ^yith the wick still red-hot, instantly inflames when plunged into this gas.—3. A small spiral 1 See Ferkic Acid, 'page 636.