4 ABORTIVA—ABSCESS. mercurial taints; malformation of spine or pelvis; luxurious and indolent habits of living; excessive indulgence of the passions; extreme terror, anger, joy, &c.; falls, blows, violent exercise, vomiting, coughing, and rough pur- gatives; hot baths, stimulating liquors, and other excitants generally. Treat., prev., Exciting causes should he avoided, and immediately on the appear- ance of suspicious symptoms, a recumbent posture, quiet, and repose, should he sought. A dose of castor oil, confection of senna, or other mild aperient, will he found advanta- geous ; and should th«re he much haemorrhage, injections of cold water, black tea, weak alum-water, or other mild astringent, may he had recourse 4o; mild opiates, and anodyne clysters, frequently administered, often prove serviceable. If the haemorrhage continues after this treatment, the introduction, for a few minutes, of a pessary formed of smooth ice, or of snow wrapped in muslin, often proves successful. A cold hip or sponge hath, to which a little vinegar may be added, has also been recommended. Should these measures prove ineffectual, medical assistance should he at once called in. In its absence ^ plugging,’ as the most effectual local method of arresting the haemorrhage, may be safely tried. When the treatment proves effectual, the continuance of the recumbent posture, due attention to the bowels, and the adoption of a light nu- tritious diet, will generally effect a cure. ABOETrVA. See Ecbolics. AB'RACADAB'RA. The name of an Assyrian deity; a word of incantation, anciently used as a spell against certain abb DABRAr. l ABRACADABR fcvers, particularly agues. VbWcVdV written on a piece abracad of paper, in the form of an WrW inverted cone, and was worn, "\*bV suspended round the neck, a b as an amulet. The cabalists, ^ and the weak-minded and superstitious, even of a later age, pre- sumed it to possess great curative powers. “ I healed 200 in one yer of an ague, by hanging ‘ abracadabra ’ about ther necks, and wold stanch blood, or heal the tooth ake, although the partyes wer 10 myle of.” (Banester. MS. addit. 5008.) The formula in i the margin is that recommended by Serenus Samonicus. See Be Foe’s “ Hist, of the Plague in London.” ABBAC'ALAN, or Abrac'ulam. A cabalistic or Rabbinical word, regarded by the Jews as possessing the same virtues as the Abracadabra, and used by them in the same way. ABRA'SION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Abea'sio, L. The rubbing or wearing down of surfaces by friction. In the arts, the reduction or figura- tion of materials by the use of an abrasive tool, or grinder, of which the effective portion is an exact counterpart of the form to be produced. Abrasion. In numismatics, the ^wear and tear,’ or waste of the substance of coins, in the pocket and circulation. It forms a large item in the expense of a metallic currency. The means employed to obviate, or to reduce it, consist in either alloying the metal to render it tougher and harder, or raising the borders so as to lessen the surface exposed to fric- tion. In well-formed coin both methods are adopted. Abrasion. In pathology and surgery—1. A superficial removal or injury of the skin by fretting or friction. Treat., ^"c. When the injured surface is large, or exposed, it should be protected from dirt and further injury, by applying a piece of lint or soft linen rag, covered with spermaceti cerate, or some other simple ointment; over which a piece of strapping, or bandage of any sort, may be placed, to keep it on. In many cases, a piece of common sticking-plaster will be found quite sufficient. 2. A very superficial ulceration or excoria- tion of the intestinal or other mucous mem- brane. Treat. Aperients of castor oil, demul- cents, and a light nutritious diet. See Excoeiations. ABEAX'AS. A mystical term of cabalistic or Egyptian origin, of which the Greek letters (dj3p<x\ag), as numerals, express 365, the number of days in a year, and of the de- pendent deities of the Basilidians. It is also written, Abeasax, Abeasaxas, Abeabax, Abeabaxas. They are supposed to have been all used as incantations and amulets, and the most wonderful virtues were attributed to them. {Bellerman, Berlin, 1817.) ABROTOHTTES. [Gr.] Wine flavoured with southernwood. (Dioscorides.) AB'SCESS(-ses). Syn. Absces'stjs,L.; AbceS, Fr. In pathology and surgery, a tumour or swelling, the result of inflammation, con- taining matter or pus, with consequent sepa- ration of the integuments from the parts beneath, or more deeply seated. Abscesses are divided into two classes—acute and chronic :— Acute Abscess. Symp. Active inflammation, attended by, or quickly terminating in, the production of pus or matter, wffiich may usually be felt ‘fluctuating ’ within the part, i particularly if near the surface. The tumour rapidly increases; an uneasy sensation of weight follows; the swelling becomes more conical, and assumes what is popularly termed a head, or point; the skin reddens, and gradually becomes thinner, until at last it breaks; the bulk of the imprisoned matter escapes, and a gradual discharge of pus con- tinues for a period more or less lengthened, according to circumstances. In favourable cases, healthy action soon follows, the injury is repaired, and the wound heals. In some cases, instead of the matter escaping, the whole of it is absorbed into the circulation, and the swelling disappears. Sometimes this is attended with disagreeable consequences; but