LEMONADE POWDERS—LENTIL. 831 mer beverage, and when made as above, may be drank in large quantities with perfect safety. It also forms an excellent refrigerant I and antiseptic drink in fevers and putrid dis- ! eases generally. Tartaric acid is commonly , substituted for citric acid, from being cheaper; it is, however, much inferior, being less whole- some and less agreeable. Lemonade eoe ICINO is prepared as above, only using a little more sugar. Orange sherbet, or orangeade FOR ICING, is made in a similar way fx*om ' oranges. Aera'ted Lemonade. Syn. Limonadijm I AERATUM, L.; Limonade gazeuse, Fr. Prep. I 1. (P. Cod.) Water, charged with 5 times its ; volume of carbonic acid gas, 1 pint; syrup of lemony 2 oz.; mix. , 2. (Without a bottling machine.)—a. Into i each bottle put lemon syrup, 1 to 1^ oz.; i essence of lemon, 3 drops; sesquicarhonate of I soda, ^ dr.; water, q. s. to nearly fill the bottle; have the cork fitted and ready at ( hand, then add of tartaric acid (cryst.), 1 dr., I instantly close the bottle, and wire down the 1 cork; it should be kept inverted in a cool place, and, preferably, immersed in a vessel of i ice-cold water. ! b. As the last, hut substituting lump sugar, ! I oz., for the lemon syrup. c. From lump sugar, 1 oz.; essence of lemon, \ 3 drops; bicarbonate of potassa, 25 gr.; water, . q. s., as No. l; then add citric actW (cryst.), j 45 gr., and cork, &c., as before. The last is most wholesome, especially for the scorbutic, dyspeptic, gouty, and rheumatic. Obs. The best aerated lemonade of the i London makers is prepared hy putting ; fl. oz. of rich lemon syrup into each bottle, which is then filled up with aerated water at the bottling machine. Antimo"niated Lemonade. Syn. Limona- DUM ANTIMONIATUM, L. Prep. By adding tartar emetic, 1 gr., to each pint of ordinary lemonade. Bose. A wine-glassful, every ^ hour or hour; as a diaphoretic and expectorant. See Antimony (Potassio-tartrate). Ape"rient Lemonade. Syn. Limonadijm LAXATIVUM, L. Prep. 1. Sugar, 1 oz.; lemon juice, | fl. oz. ; sulphate of soda, 3 dr.; water, 8 fl. oz.; put them into a soda-water : bottle without shaking, have the cork ready fitted, add of sesquicarhonate of soda (in cryst.), i dr., and instantly cork the hottle, wire it down, and keep it in a cool place, inverted. For a dose. 2. Heavy carbonate of magnesia, \\ dr.; refined sugar, 1 oz.; essence of lemon, 5 or 6 drops; water, 8 fl. oz.; bottle as last, then add of citric acid (cryst.), 3 dr., and in- stantly cork, &c., as before. For a dose. It should be kept for at least 24 hours before being taken. Lac'tic Lemonade. Syn. Limonadum lac- TICUM, L. Prep. (Magendie.) Lactic acid, 1 to 4 dr.; syrup, 2 oz.; water, 1 pint; mix. Recommended in dyspepsia, &c. Milk Lemonade. Syn. Limonadum lactis, L. Prep. Take of sugar, ^ lb.; water, 1 pint; dissolve, add the juice of 3 lemons; milk or whey, ^ pint; stir the whole together and strain through a hair sieve. Some persons add a glassful of sherry. Min'eral Lemonade. Syn. Limonade mi- NERALE, Fr. On the Continent this name is applied to various drinks consisting of water acidulated with the mineral acids and sweet- ened with sugar. Thus we have limonade CHLORHYDRIQUE, NITRIQUE, PHOSPHORIQUE, SULPHURIQUE, &c., all of which are used as cooling drinks in fevers, inflammations, skin diseases, &c. Port'able Lemonade. See Powders. LEMONADE' POWDERS. See Powders. LEMONA'TED KA'LI. See Kali, Potassa (Citrate), &c. LEN'ITIVES. In medicine, purgatives which act in a gentle manner, and have a soothing effect. See Laxatives. LENS. In optics, a piece of glass or other transparent medium, having one or two curved surfaces, either convex or concave. A descrip- tion of the different kinds of lenses belongs to a work on optics. It may, however, be useful to the chemical student to remark here that the CoDDiNGTON and Stanhope lenses, which may now be bought at any of the opticians, neatly mounted and of great power, for a few shillings, will he found of the greatest service in examining minute crystals, precipitates, &c.; and for all ordinary purposes offer a cheap and efficient substitute for more complicated microscopes. An extemporaneous instrument, possessing considerable power, may be made by simply piercing a small circular hole in a slip of metal, and introducing into it a drop of water, which then assumes a spherical form on each side of the metal, while the latter is held in a horizontal position. The ingenious little TOY MICROSCOPES sold about the streets of London, under the form of a perforated pill- box, at one penny each, consist of such a lens, made with Canada balsam instead of water, which has the property of hardening without losing its transparency after exposure for a few hours to the air. A still simpler substitute for a lens is a piece of blackened card-paper, with the smallest possible needle-hole pierced through it. Any very small object held in a strong light, and viewed through this hole at the distance of about an inch, will appear quite distinct, and from 10 to 12 times larger than its usual size. We have often found this little instrument of incalculable service in situations and under circumstances in which a more powerful or complicated apparatus was unattainable or could not be applied. LEN'TIL. Syn. Lens, L. The seed of the Ervum Lens, a plant of the natural order Leguminosce. The lentil is considerably smaller than an ordinary pea, and is of the shape of a double convex lens. Several varieties are cul- tivated on the Continent of Europe and in