FLAVOURING SUBSTANCES—FLOUR. 6o3 ; FLAVOURING SUBSTANCES. See Es- iSENCE, Oil (Volatile), Spice, Wine, &c. I FLAX. See Linen, Linseed, and Oil. : FLEA. This troublesome little animal is !the Pulex irritans of Linnajus, and belongs to ithe Suctoria, or fourth order of the Insect a. llts favorite haunts are our warm under- ' clothing, and its most productive breeding- Iplaces are in the ‘flue’ which careless servants 'allow to accumulate underneath our beds. iCold, light, perfumes, and ventilation, are jinimical to its propagation. I FLESH. Syn. Caeo, L. The muscular isubstance of animals; the softer, solid por- itions of the body, as distinguished from the ibones and fluids. See Fibein, Food, &c. I . Flesh-brush. This simple instrument is used for exciting the cutaneous circulation. Those iwhich have the bristles set on a leather back are [esteemed the best. The flesh-glove or haie iFLESH-EUBBEE is a useful modiflcation of the 'common flesh-brush. Those manufactured by 'Messrs. Savory and Moore, in imitation of the ‘Indian kheesah’ or ‘mitten/ are superior to all others. In the absence of both flesh- brush and glove, a rough towel wound round [the hand is no bad substitute. See Feiction. I FLIES. See Fly. FLIP. See Ego Flip. I FLOUN'DER. A flat fish, very like the [PLAICE, but smaller, and of more obscure colour. It is very common about the British coast, and is found in the Northern, Baltic, and Mediterranean seas. Its flesh is very whole- some. ! FLOUR. Syn. Faeina, L. The finely ground and ‘ dressed’ meal of bread corn, and of the seeds of some of the leguminosse. That known specifically as 'flour’ in this country is obtained from spring varieties of Triticum vul- \'jare (the common wheat), j Far,, S^c. Of varieties of flour there are several, depending chiefly on the amount of jbran which they contain, and the relative fine- iness of the sieves through which they are passed;— Fine wheat flohe, Pastey floue; Fa- rina, F. TEITICI, F. SEMINIS TEITICI. The [inest flour, obtained from the meal produced in the first grinding of wheat between sharp stones, by means of a sieve of 64 wires to the nch. Used for pastry. Middlings. The remainder of the flour of the first grinding, obtained by means of a slightly coarser sieve. Used for making honse- lold bread, but is mostly reground for the lext variety. Seconds. The finest part of the flour, ob- l:ained by regrinding ‘middlings’ between Aunt stones. Used by the bakers for their inest wheaten bread. PoLLAED. The coarse flour, from which the seconds lias been sifted. Used for making sea biscuits and gingerbread, and to fatten poultry md hogs. j CouNTEY HOUSEHOLD FLOUE. This is usu- ally ground only once, and sifted to |ths of the weight of the wheat. Ammunition floue is ground and sifted to 2i8§, or nearly ^ths the weight of the wheat. According to* Mr. Accum, thirty-two pecks of wheat in the London mills yield, of flour, 38^ parts; pollard, 8 parts; and bran (fue- FUE TEITICI), 12 parts; the bulk of the wheat being doubled by grinding. According to Mr. Hard, miller, of Dartford, quoted by Dr. Pereira, the wheat having been ground in the usual way, is allowed to remain in the state of meal for some time before ‘ dressing,’ which removes the heat caused by the process, and enables the miller to obtain more flour, and the baker a better quality, than if ‘ dressed ’ immediately it is ground. “ The process of dressiny is by a wire cylinder containing a certain number of sheets of diflerent texture or fineness, which cylinder contains eight hair brushes attached to a spindle passing through the centre of the cy- linder, and laid out so as to gently touch the wire. This cylinder is fed by a‘shoe’ with the meal; then the ‘ flour ’ and ‘ offal,’ after passing through the wire in this way, are divided by wooden partitions fixed close to the outside of the cylinder.” “The produce of the wheat-meal dressed through the wire machine consists of—1, Flour;—2, While Stuff, or Boxings, or Sharps ;—3, Fine Pollard ; —4, Coarse Pollard, or Horse Pollard;—'b. Bran. The 2nd product {i. e. the white stuff) is then submitted to another ‘dressing’ through a fine cloth machine, and produces—1, Fine Middlings, for biscuits; —2, Toppings, or Specks ; 3, Dustings;—4, Best Pollard, Turkey Mid- dlings, or Coarse Middlings.” Table of the Produce of One Quarter of Wheat (=* 504 lb) By Mr. Haed. Flour 392 lb. Biscuit or fine middlings . . 10 „ Toppings or specks .... 8 „ Best pollard, Turkey p., cr twenty-penny 15 „ Fine pollard 18 ,, Bran and coarse pollard ... 50 ,, Loss by evaporation and waste 11 „ 504 „ Coynp. According to Vauquelin, French wheat flour contains about lOg of water, 11^ of gluten, 71g of starch, 5^ of sugar, and 3(^ of gum ; and the water of the dough amounts to about 50^. The quantity of the bran in wheat ranges under 2g. Pur. This article of food is very frequently adulterated both by the miller and the baker, as has been before alluded to in the article on Bread. The principal physical characteristics of wheat flour of good quality are the fol- lowing:—it has a dull white colour, somewhat inclining to yellow;—it exhibits no trace of