NITRANILINE—NITRIC ACID. 939 I again applied to it. This remedy is very suc- 1 cessful, and has acquired great popularity and ! patronage in Brussels, Paris, Prankfort, and I other parts. It must be recollected, however, ' that all applications of an active or poisonous nature should he employed with the greatest [possible caution,as, unless unusual care is taken, j a portion of the remedy may remain concealed j within the delicate pores of the skin, and he 1 sucked off by the infant, to the serious disturb- ance of its health. NITKANTLINE. This substance is obtained by acting on nitrobenzol with a mixture of [fuming nitric acid and oil of vitriol; biniteo- 1 BENZOL is formed, w'hich is dissolved in alcohol, land the resulting solution subjected to the re- I ducing action of ammonia and sulphuretted hy- \drogen, as described under aniline. Nitrani- jline forms yellow, acicular crystals, little so- luble in cold water, but freely soluble in alcohol and ether. Its salts are crystallizable. NITRANISTC ACID. A sparingly soluble, yel- lowish-white, semicrystalline powder, formed by the action of nitric acid on oil of aniseed. NITRAN'ISIDE. A resinous substance, pro- duced by the action of fuming nitric acid on oil of aniseed. ! NI'TRATE. Syn. Nitkas, L. A salt of nitric acid. The nitrates are very easily pre- pared by the direct solution of the base, or its oxide, or carbonate, in nitric acid, which, in most cases, should be previously diluted with \water. By evaporation, with the usual pre- cautions, they may be obtained either in the pulverulent or crystalline form. Tlie nitrates are characterised by deflagrat- ing when thrown on red-hot coal, or when ,heated in contact with inflammable substances. See Niteic Acid, and the respective bases. NTTRE. Nitrate of Potassa. See Potassa. NI'TRIC ACID. Syn. Azotic acid ; Acidum NITEICUM (Ph. L. E. & D.). An acid corn- I pound of nitrogen 'and oxygen, of which the AQUAEOETis of the shops is a crude and weaker form. Prej). 1. (Ph. E., and Ph. L. 1836.) Puri- \^fied nitre (dried) and sulphuric acid, equal i parts; mix in a glass retort, and distil with a moderate heat, from a sand bath (or naked gas- flame—Ph. E.) into a cool receiver, as long as the fused materials continue to evolve vapours. “ The pale yellow acid thus obtained may be rendered colourless (if desired) by gently heat- ing it in a retort.’^ (Ph. E.) Sp. gr. 1‘600. In the present Ph. L. this acid is included in the materia medica. (See below.) I 2. (Ph. D.) The nitrate of potassa is dis- solved in water, the solution treated with a little nitrate of silver, filtered, evaporated to dryness, weighed, and then treated as above. 3. (Wholesale.) Nitre (dry), 168 lb., in the j state of coarse powder, is introduced into a I cold cylindrical iron retort, wdiich it will only half fill, and after the lid is luted on, and the I connection made with the condensers, oil of I vitriol (sp. gr. 1*845), 93 lb., is slowly poured in through an aperture provided for the pur- pose, and the charge is w^orked off with a gra- dually increased heat. The condensing appa- ratus consists of a series of 5 or 6 salt-glazed stoneware receivers, about |th part filled with cold water.^ The product of this process is the strongest brown and fuming ‘ niteods acid’ of commerce (aquafoetis, fuming niteic acid j ACIDUM NITEOSUM, ACIDUM NITEICUM FU- MANs), and has usually the sp. gr. 1*45. It is rendered colourless by gently heating it in a glass retort, when it forms commeecial niteic ACID (sp. gr. 1-37 to 1’4). By omitting the water in the receivers, an acid of fully 1*500 is obtained. 4. (PUEE MONODYDEATED niteic ACID.) By mixing the strongest commercial acid with about an equal quantity of oil of vitriol; re- distilling; collecting apart the first portion which comes over, and exposing it, in a vessel slightly warmed and sheltered from the light, to a current of dry air made to bubble thr/mgh it until the niteous acid is c'ompletely re- moved. Prop. Pure liquid nitric acid is colourless, highly corrosive, and possesses powerful acid and oxygenizing properties. The sp. gr. of the strongest liquid acid (monohydeated NITEIC acid) has the sp. gr. 1*517 at 60° Fahr. On boiling nitric acid of different degrees of concentration at the ordinary atmospheric pressure, a residue is left boiling at 249° Fahr., and 29 inches barometer, having a sp, gr. 1*414 at 60° Fahr.” (Fownes.) Acid of less density than 1*414 parts with water, and gradually becomes stronger by boiling; but acid of sp. gr. than 1*414 is weakened by exposure to heat. When exposed to intense cold, liquid nitric acid freezes. It is rapidly decomposed, with loss of oxygen, by contact with most organic and many metallic and non-metallic bodies. In many cases these reactions occur with con- siderable violence, and the production of light and heat. Pur. The nitric acid of commerce is gene- rally contaminated by hydrochloric acid, ni~ trous acid, sulphuric acid, or chlorine, or by their soda or potassa salts, and, occasionally, iodine, together with an excess of water. The last is readily detected by the sp. gr., and the others by the appropriate tests. “ Free from colour. Sp. gr. 1*42. Exposed to the air, it emits very acrid vapours. Totally volatilized by heat. Diluted with 3 times its volume of water, it gives no precipitate with either nitrate of silver or chloride of barium. 100 gr. of this acid (sp. gr. 1*42) are saturated by 161 gr. of crystallized carbonate of soda.” (Ph. L.) The Ph. E. states the density of commercial nitric acid is 1*380 to 1*390. “ If diluted with dis- tilled water, it precipitates but slightly, or not at all, with solution of nitrate of baryta or nitrate of silver.” The best * double aqua- foetis’ of the shops (aquafoetis duplex) > The whole arrangement ia similar to that figured iu the engraving at page 153,