QUINIDINE—QUININE. 1155. liter, which forms a mucilage with water, d possesses the advantage of not being af- 2ted by the salts of iron or alcohol. See ECOCTioN, Fixature, and Jelly. QUINIDINE. Syn. Quinidia ; Quini- |NA, Quinidinum, L. An alkaloid found ! company with qutnoidine or amorphous I'ININE in the * mother-liquors’ of the qui- W manufacturers. It is the j3 quina of in Heijningen. According to Pasteur, the luinidine^ of commerce is generally a mix- |re of two alkaloids, the one isomeric with \inine, and the other with cinchonine. He Ills the first quinidine, and the other cin- 'ONIDINE. 'Prop., Sfc. These, together with the means ! distinguishing it from quinine, are fully Iticed below. Another marked dissimilarity 'its not striking a green colour when treated th chlorine followed by ammonia, as that caloid does. Its medicinal properties are d to resemble those of quinine in character, !t not in degree, its powers being compara- bly feeble. It is contained in nearly all the linary SULPHATE OE quinine of fhe shops, is contamination generally arises from that ;icle being carelessly made; but, occasion- y, it occurs as wilful adulteration. Sul- ATE OF QUINIDINE is now often employed a substitute, and is even sold for disulphate quinine, the inducement being its apparent isapness. aUINTCINE. An artificial base obtained j Pasteur, by exposing quinine or quinidine a temperature varying from 248° to 266° I hr. for several hours. QUININE' (-neen', or qul'nine). Syn. Qui- i , Quinia, Quinina, L. A valuable medi- iial alkaloid, occurring in cinchona bark. ! is found in the greatest quantity in LLOw or Calisata bark, just as cincho- NE forms the principal alkaloid in pale RK. Red bark contains both alka- ds. \Prep. 1. By precipitating a solution of \'phate of quinine with liquor of ammonia or potassa, carefully avoiding excess, and ishing and drying the precipitate. By solu- >n in alcohol, sp. gr. ’SIB, and spontaneous aporation, it may be procured in crystals, ystals may also be obtained from its ution in hot water with a little ammonia.” iebig.) 2. {Direct.) By adding hydrate of lime, slight excess, to a strong decoction of the ound bark made with water acidulated with ^phuric acid, washing the precipitate which sues, and boiling it in alcohol; the solution, tered while hot, deposits the alkaloid on aling. Prop., SfC. Quinine, when prepared by ecipitation, is an amorphous white powder, t when this precipitate is left in the liquor assumes, after some time, the appearance of gregated crystalline needles; when slowly ystallized from its solution, these needles are remarkably fine, and of a pearly or silky lustre. It is freely soluble in rectified spirit, and in ether and liquor of ammonia, but is only spar- ingly soluble in water, even when boiling; both the fixed and volatile oils dissolve it with the aid of heat, more especially when it has been rendered anhydrous, or is presented to them under the form of an ethereal solution. It fuses by a gentle heat, without decomposi- tion ; forms crystallizable salts, which are only slightly soluble in water, unless it be acidu- lated, and, like the pure alkaloid, are ex- tremely bitter, and possess much of the cha- racteristic flavour of cinchona bark. It is precipitated by the alkalies and their carbo- nates, by tannic acid, and by most astringent substances. Pur. See Sulphate of Quinine and Qui- NOMETRY {below). Tests. Quinine is recognised by—1. Its appearance under the microscope.—2. Its so- lubility in ether, and in pure ammonia water.— 3. Its solubility in concentrated nitric acid, forming a colourless liquid, which does not be- come yellowish until it is heated.—4. The solubility of itself and salts, when pure, in concentrated sulphuric acid, forming colourless fluids, ‘‘ which do not acquire any coloration upon being heated to the point of incipient evaporation of the sulphuric acid, but which afterwards become yellow, and finally brown.” (Fresenius.)—5. Its solubility in concentrated sulphuric acid to which some nitric acid has been added, forming a colourless, or, at the most, only a faintly yellowish liquid.—6. It is wholly destroyed by heat. A solution of quinine in acidulated water, and solutions of its salts, exhibit the follow- ing reactions:—1. Ammonia, potassa, and the alkaline carbonates, give white, pulverulent pre- cipitates, becoming crystalline after some time (see above), and which are soluble in ammonia in excess, and which, when ether is added after the ammonia, and the whole is agitated, redis- solve in the ether, whilst the clear liquid, on repose, presents two distinct layers.—2. Bi- carbonate of soda (avoiding excess) gives a similar precipitate, both in acid and neutral solutions of quinine, either at once or after a short time. This precipitate is soluble in ex- cess of the precipitant, and is again precipi- tated from the new solution upon protracted ebullition. “ Vigorous stirring of the liquid promotes the separation of this precipitate.” (Fresenius.)—3. If recently prepared chlorine be added to it, and then ammonia, a beautiful emerald-green colour developed. (Ph. L.)—4. A concentrated solution of ferrocyanide of po- tassium being added, in excess, after the chlo- rine, instead of the ammonia, a dark red colour is instantly produced, which, after some time, passes into green, especially when freely ex- posed to the light. “ This reaction is cha- racteristic of quinine.” (Ure.)—5. If caustic potassa be used instead of ammonia (see above), the solution acquires a sulphur-yellow colour.