129 ALUMINIUM. iron and lead, to protect them from rust or cor- rosion, did not its price intervene. As an in- ternal coating for water-pipes, cisterns, &c., no other substance, except gold and platinum, s so well adapted. In chemistry, capsules, tubes, &c., either made of or coated with it, may be often advantageously substituted for }!«; '/(those of platinum. It has also been recently I employed by Deville and Wohler to obtain the crystalline allotropic modifications of boron, silicon, titanium, <^c.; these elements, in the •amorphous state, dissolving freely in ‘fused aluminium,^ from which they slowly separate, in the crystalline form, as the molten mass cools. Concluding Remarks. In addition to what lias been said above, it may be observed that, in preparing aluminum, the chief care should be to avoid accidents or failure by the employ- ment of too high a temperature, and to avoid the product being contaminated with other nctals or with carbon. To ensure the purity if the metal is a matter of the greatest diffi- nilty, owing to the facility with which foreign natters are talcen up, during the process, from :he matei’ials of which the apparatus is com- )Osed; and from the substances from w'hich it is prepared being seldom absolutely pure. Indeed, it is not too much to assei*t, that chemically pure aluminium has not yet been ob- tained ; and that even a very close approxima- tion to it is of very rare occurrence. When- ever a ‘ copper boat’ is used to hold the sodium, the product is always contaminated with cop- per. Sesquichloride of aluminium alw^ays contains some of the chlorides of iron and silicon, both of which are volatile, and pro- bably takes up a further portion from th© porcelain or earthenware used to form the ap- paratus. Sodium also is seldom uncontami- nated with carbon or some compound of it; in wdiich case, and like ivise wdien it is not care- fully freed from the naphtha in which it has been preserved, the product always contains ‘ carbon. ’ The crucible, whether of porcelain or iron, in w^hich the final fusion is made, also contributes to contaminate the metal. Hence the inferior whiteness and brilliancy of commercial specimens of aluminium ; a metal which, in its absolutely pure state, may be reasonably inferred to be as superior in the above respects to silver, as silver is to tin. The truth of these remarks may be illustrated by the following analysis :— Made in Paris. Made in Berlin. f A No. 1. No. 3.1 No. 3.--J No.]. No. 2. (3/allet.) (Salvetat). (Cooley.) Qlallet.) (Smith.) Aluminium 92-969 88-35 97-15 96-253 94-35 Copper — 6-38 1-35 — 2-36 Iron -1-882 2-40 1-28 3-293 3-07 Silicon 2-149 2-87 •22 . •454 •21 Titanium traces — — traces — Zinc — — traces ■— traces Lead — traces — — — 100- 100- 100- j 100- 99-99 Erdmann also found zinc in the aluminium old in Paris. Aluminium carefully prepared according to Hunsen’s method, by electrolysis in the ‘ dry vay ,’3 is probably the/?Mres//orm of the metalyet iroduced; but in a commercial point of view Ills process is valueless, owing to the smallness i >f the product, and the expense and difticul- :ies attending it. The same applies to the 'lectrolysis of solutions of the ‘ salts of alu- nina except, that by the latter method, the inalloyed metal cannot be obtained. As all the processes hitherto discovered for he successful production of aluminium, on the 'arye scale, involve the use of a considerable q uan- fity of the costly metal sodium, it seem likely ‘ Prcnared by M. Deville. a Said to be prepared bv Deville, and sold as chemically tor. 3 Sec Xole (ante). * llydroclilorate, acetate, or sulphate, or even alum; or olutions of alumina or clay in caustic potassa or soda. that the diminution of the price of the former, w'ill henceforth depend on the discovery of some simpler and cheaper method of obtaining the latter metal; and to this object our efibrts should, therefore, be now^ chiefly directed. The happy effects of researches in this direction may be seen by the extraordinary decrease in the prices of both sodium and aluminium during the last few years. It has been stated in one of the ‘ j)eriodi- cals’ that Signor Corbelli, of Florence, has recently obtained aluminium by the following “simple and economical process —10 parts of pure clay are dissolved in 6 times its weight of sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, and the filtered solution, after being evaporated to dryness, is heated, in a porcelain crucible, to from 850° to 900° Fahr.; the calcined mass is next pow- dered, and mixed Avith 20 parts of ferrocyanide of potassium, and 15 parts of chloride of so- dium (each being previously well dried and 9