WAFERS—WARTS. 1321 li annular steel punches, made exclusively for 1 the purpose. i! 2. (Gelatine waeees, Teanspaeent w.) !j Good gelatine or glue is dissolved, by the heat ; of a water bath, in just suflBcient water to form I a consistent mass on cooling; it is then poiired, whilst hot, upon the surface of a warm plate of mirror glass, slightly oiled, and surrounded with a border of card paper ;(laid flat) j a similar plate, also warmed and oiled, is' next laid upon the gelatine, and the two plates pressed into as close contact , as is permitted by the card paper; when quite cold, the thin sheet of gelatine is removed, and cut into wafers ) with punches, as before. 1 to 2 oz. of sugar is commonly added to each lb. of gelatine. > 3. (Medallion waeees.) A sheet of metal OT glass, having designs sunk in it correspond- 1 ing. to the raised part of seals, being provided, the hollows are filled up with a mixture formed I of any appropriate coloured powder, njade into a paste with gum water or size, leaving the flat part clear; melted coloured glu§ is then poured on the plate, and the process is otherwise con- ducted as before. For use, the paper is wetted where the wafer is to be applied. Obs. Care must be taken that ho poisonous ^ colours be employed. For gelatine wafers, t transparent colours only can be used. . Those <j noticed under LiftUEUES and Stains (Confec- ( fectioner’s) are appropriate. To these may be ( added plumbago, sesguioxide of iron (crocus i|i martis), smalts, levigated vegetable" charcoal, I and vermilion. Wafers, (In cookery,) Prep, Make fine ( flour, dried and sifted, into a smooth thin i batter with good milk, or'a little credm-and- !) water; add about as white wine as will I make it thick enough for pancakes, sweeten ' it with a little loaf sugar, and flavour it with i powdered cinnamon. WTien thus prepared, • have the waferArons made ready, by being i heated over a charcoal fire; rub them with a ! piece of linen cloth dipped in butter; then I pour a spoonful of the butter updn them, and ( close them almost immediately; turn them ; 1 upon the fire, and pare the edges with a knife, ( if any of the batter oozes out. A short time I will bake them, when the irons are perfectly heated. The wafers must be curled round whilst warm when they are for ornaments. ‘ Waeee papee’ is prepared in a similar way to the above; but when intended to be kept for some time, the milk must be omitted. ! Used by cooks, &c.; and, recently, as an en- velope for nauseous medicines. Da Silva’s Wafers. These nostrums were introduced to the public some years ago, as though they were prepared from the formulae of a celebrated physician whose name was affixed to them.^ There are three varieties, which are said to be prepared as follows :— 1. Apeeient or antibilioes waeees. 1 For an exposition of the Da Silva quackery, witli Dr. I Locock’s letter on the subject, see the '■‘Anat. of Quackery” or the '‘Med. Circ.,” ii, 106-126. From sugar and extract of liquorice (Spanish juice), equal parts; senna and jalap, of each, in fine powder, about ^ dr. to every oz. of sugar employed; made into a mass with a concentrated infusion of senna, and divided into 12-gr. lozenges or squares with the cor- ners rounded off. 2. Female waeees. From sugar, horehound candy (dr honey),' and aperient wafer mass, equal parts; beaten to .a proper copsistence with weak gum water, to which a little orange- fiower water has been added, and divided into 8-gr. tabellse, as beforej, 'i. ; 3. Pulmonic waeees. From lump sugar and starch,'of each, in powder, 2 parts ; pow- dered gum, 1 part; made into a lozenge-mass with vinegar, of squills, oxymel of squills, and ipecacuanha wine, equal parts, gently evapo- rated to l-6th their .weight, with the addition oflactucarium in the proportion of 20 to 30 gr. to every oz. of the dry powders; the mass'i being divided into half-inch squares, weighing about gr. each (when dry), as before. v \ w WAL'NTJT, The Juglans regia, a tree of the natural order luglandacece. The sap yields sugaij; the fruit \s, the walnut; the kernels of the latter are eaten and pressed for their oil; the peel or husks are used for ‘rooting’ or dyeing brown; the unripe fruit is pickled, and its juice is used a^ a. hair dye; the leaves are re- puted diaphoretic and antisyphilitic; and the wood \% esteemed for cabinet work. WARBURG’S FEVER DROPS. See Wae- BEE&’s Fevee Tinctuee {jpage 1286). WARD’S RED DROP. A strong solution of emetic tartar in wine. WARTS^' Syn. Veeeec.®:, Jj. These chiefly attack the hands, and may be removed by the daily use of a little nitrate of silver, nitric acid, or aromgtic vinegar, as directed under Coen. The first of the above applications produces a black stain, and the second a yellow one ; both of which, however, wear off after the lapse of some days. Acetic acid scarcely discolours the skin. Erasmus Wilson, the eminent surgeon and talented author of se- veral works on the skin, mentions the case of a gentleman who removed an entire crop of warts from his knuckles and fingers by sub- jecting them to a succession of sparks from one of the poles of an electrical machine. “ He was in the habit, as is usual, of trying the amount of electric fluid collected in his machine by placing his knuckle near the brass knob, and receiving a spark. Observing that an odd sensation was produced whenever the spark struck a wart, he was tempted for amuse- ment to give them a round of discharges. When his attention was next directed to his hands, he found, to his surprise and satisfac- tion, that all the warts had disappeared.” Dr. Peez, of Wiesbaden recommends the in- ternal use of carbonate of magnesia in cases of warts. I The papular eruption which covers the