BISMUTH. 310 fusible. An alloy of tin, nickel, bismuth, and 3. (Ph. D. 1850.) As No. 1. (nearly); but Tests. Metallic bismutli is easily recognised by its physical properties (see above); its salts by—1. Their saturated or concentrated solu- tions giving a white precipitate on dilution with water :—2. Sulphuretted hydrogen black- ens them, or gives a black precipitate:— 3. The nitric solution is unaffected by the addition of sulphuric acid:—4. Chromate of potassa gives a yellow precipitate, which differs from that from lead, by being soluble in nitric acid, and insoluble in potassa:— Estim. 1. When mixed with bodies un- affected hy sulphuretted hydrogen:—Pass sulphuretted hydrogen through the liquid pre- viously mixed with a large quantity of acetic acid, and diluted with water. Collect the pre- cipitated ‘ sulphuret ’ on a filter, wash it well with water, redissolve it in nitric acid (in excess), dilute the solution with a little water, and filter; wash the sulphur left on the filter with water soured with nitric acid; mix the whole together, and precipitate the ‘ bismuth,^ in the state of oxide, by adding carbonate of ammonia. After some hours collect the de- posit on a filter, wash it with water, and ignite it in a porcelain crucible. The weight of oxide (in grains) multiplied by ‘899 will give the weight of bismuth in the sample exam- ined. Should the sample be an alloy, or other solid, it must be first dissolved in an excess of nitric acid. 2. When neither mixed with hydrochlobic ACID nor with substances precipitated by CAR- BONATE OF AMMONIA :—The ‘oxide of bismuth’ may he at once thrown down with carbonate of ammonia, ignited, and weighed as before. 3. When mixed with lead :—Precipitate the ‘ oxides ’ with carbonate of ammonia, and redissoive them in acetic acid ; a strip of clean lead, the weight of which is known, must then be immersed in this solution, and the whole allowed to stand for some hours. Bismuth separates in a metallic state; that which remains on the ‘ lead ’ is washed off, and the strip dried and weighed. The bismuth is next placed in a filter and washed with water which has been boiled and allowed to cool; it is then dissolved in nitric acid, the solution evaporated, heated, and the resulting oxide OF BISMUTH weighed, as before. The solution of lead is next precipitated with carbonate of ammonia, and the quantity of ‘ plumbic oxide ’ determined. The loss of weight which the lead has sufiered gives the quantity of oxide of LEAD which was not originally in the solution. A still simpler way is to add caustic potassa to the nitric solution, in sufficient excess to re- dissolve all the ‘ oxide of lead ’ at first thrown down. The oxide of bismuth remains be- hind, and may he washed, dried, and weighed, as before. Uses, 8fc. Bismuth enters into the compo- sition of STEREOTYPE-METAL, SOLDER, PEWTER, FUSIBLE METAL, and Several other alloys. Added to other metals it renders them more silver, is said to hinder iron from rusting. A mixture of bismuth, lead, and tin, is much em- ployed for taking impressions from dies, form- ing moulds, and for other purposes. See ^ Fusible Metal. Bro'mide of Bismuth. Syn. Bismu'thi bromi'dum, L. a gray-coloured mass, re- sembling fused iodine, obtained by heating bismuth, in a glass tube, with an excess of bromine. Volatile; decomposed by both air and water. Ohio "rides of Bismuth. Of these only one —the subchloride — possesses any practical interest:— 1. Subchlo"ride of Bismuth. Syn. Pearl'- POWDER; Bismu'thi subchlori'dum, L. j Prep. A weak solution of common salt, or of j hydrochloric acid, is dropped into another of bismuth (prepared by dissolving that metal in j nitric acid); and the resulting precipitate, after being well washed in pure water, is dried in the shade. Prop., ^^ses, Sfc. Similar to those of the suhnitrate. 2. Terchlo'ride of Bismuth. Syn. Chlo"- I RIDE OF BISMUTH; BiSMU'THI TERCHLO- ! ri'dum, &c., L. Prep. A mixture of corrosive sublimate, 2 parts; bismuth, 1 part; (both in powder,) is exposed to heat until all the ‘mer- cury ’ present is expelled, after which it is at : once put into bottles. A grayish-white, granu- lar substance. Flow'ers of Bismuth. Syn. Bismu'thi flo"- RES, L. An obsolete form of the ‘ oxide,’ pre- pared by gradually injecting a mixture of bismuth with about twice its weight of nitre, (in powder,) into an ignited tubulated earthen- - ware-retort, having a wide mouth, and fur- nished with a ‘ receiver ’ to catch the ‘ flowers.’ Ful'minating Bismuth. See Fulminating Compounds. i Ni'trates of Bismuth. Of these there are J two, of analogous composition to the corre- j spending chlorides of this metal:— 1. Subni'trate of Bismuth. Syn. Bas'ic n. OF B., Ni'trate of b. (Ph. L. 1851), Tetar'to- i N. OF B.*, Pearl'-white (perl'-), Fard’s w.*, i White BiSMUTHf, &c.; Bismu'thi subni'- | TRAS (Ph. D. 1850), B. ni'tras (Ph. L. 1851), i B. trisni'tras (Ph. L. 1836), Bismu'thum ; al'bum (Ph. E. 1841), Magiste"rium bismu'- thi t, &c., L.; Bismuth subnitrate, Blanc ; DE Fard, B. d’Espagne*, &c., Fr.; Perl- ; WEISS, ScHMiNKWEiss, &c., Ger. Prep. 1. , (Ph. L. 1851.) Bismuth, 1 oz.; nitric acid, 1^ • fl. oz.; distilled water, 3 pints; mix 1 fl. oz. of i the ‘ water ’ with the ‘ acid,’ and dissolve the ‘ bismuth ’ in the mixture; throw the solution ; into the remainder of the ‘ water,’ and, after . repose, pour off the supernatant liquor, drain i the powder that has subsided on a linen cloth, , wash it with distilled water, and dry it with a ■ gentle heat. i 2. (Ph. E. 1841.) As the last; but the i ‘washed precipitate’ is to be dried in a dark ■ place. I