PH RENITIS—PHTHISIS. 1061 I [pf 4:0^ to its axis, are placed two precisely iinilar rectangular plates of plain silvered \lass, and fastened so as to meet at the top, in the middle of a narrow slit about an inch long and the eighth of an inch broad, and yhich is covered with a strip of tissue or oiled \aper. In employing this instrument, the i lights must he placed at such a distance from jach other, and from the instrument between .hem, that the light from each shall fall on he reflector next it, and be reflected to the Iorresponding portion of the oiled paper. The lihotometer is then to be moved nearer to the me or the other, until the two portions of the ,iled paper corresponding to the two mirrors re equally illuminated, of which the eye can adge with considerable accuracy.” In Prof. Wheatstone’s ‘ photometee’ the {elative intensity of the two lights is deter- ained by the relative brightness of the oppo- ite sides of a revolving silvered ball illuminated •y them. In the method of photometry usually, but rroneously, ascribed to Count Rumford, the hadows of an opaque object formed by differ- nt lights, and allowed to fall on a ivhite wall r paper screen, are contrasted. A wire bout fgths of an inch thick, and about a foot n length, with the one end bent so as to form handle, is commonly used to form the hadows. The method of proceeding is similar 0 that first above noticed. 1 It is generally supposed that the equalilg of wo shadows can be appreciated with greater ertainty than that of two lights. PHRENI'TIS. Sgn. Pheenst; Encepha- iJTis, L. Inflammation of the brain or its ueinbranes. It is a highly dangerous and (fteii fatal disease, requiring prompt and skil- ul medical treatment. In the acute forms iberal venesection in the arm, or cupping, or eeches, an active and irritating purgative (as I full dose of calomel andya/fljy), followed by aline purgatives, and the cold-water douche, >r ice to the head (previously shaved), form he common treatment. In the sub-acute and 'hronic forms active depletion is unnecessary, md often proves injurious. PHTHAL'IC ACID. A bibasic acid, obtained >y boiling tetrachloride of naphthalin with lilric acid, or by acting on alizarin with ntric acid. It crystallizes in yellow plates, is mly slightly soluble in water, but is freely mluble in alcohol and ether. Fuming nitric icid converts it into niteo-phthalic acid. PHTHIRI'ASIS. Sgn. Moebus pedicd- Jlosus, L. a disease in which lice breed on the oody, ])uncture the skin, and produce small iJut irritating ulcers. It is symptomatic of I bad state of body, or of other diseases, to rt’hich the attention should be directed. The best local treatment is warm sea bathing and the free use of clean linen. PHTHISIC. A popular name for difficulty if breathing, from its supposed resemblance to phthisis. See Beonchitis, and below. PHTHISIS. Sgn. Consumption, Pulmo- NAEY c., Tubeeculae c. A diseased con- dition of the lungs, distinguished by pro- gressive emaciation, debility, cough, difficulty of breathing, hectic fever, and purulent and usually copious expectoration. As the disease advances, the expectorated matter is frequently streaked with blood; there is pain in the side (especially after coughing or a full inspiration), inability to lie with equal comfort on both sides, frequent flushings and chilliness, and a red sediment in the urine. The tongue is seldom much altered ; the bowels, at first irre- gular, become at length habitually relaxed; profuse perspirations, attended by extreme debility and rapid emaciation, follow; the legs swell; the eyes brighten; and the patient sinks, generally retaining his senses in full vigour, and even his hope of recovery and his spirits, to the last. The causes which predispose to pulmonary consumption are numerous and varied. Among these, hereditary disposition and scrofulous habit are the principal in the most alarming form of the disease, or that which arises from tubercles of the lungs. Particular formation of body, as narrow chest, or spinal or pectoral distortion, in which the functional action of the lungs is interfered with; unhealthy occu- pations ; confined or unwholesome air; exces- sive indulgence of the passions; intemperance, or unnatural abstemiousness; exhaustinghabits and diseases; sudden or lengthened exposure to extreme cold, damp, &c.; insufficient cloth- ing; checked perspiration; and, more parti- cularly, neglected catarrh, bronchitis, asthma, and similar affections. The treatment of this disease is necessarily not of a very decided character; much more depending on proper attention to diet and regimen, clothing, exercise, ventilation, and uniformity of temperature, than on medicine. In the early stages, the tendency to inflamma- tory action may be cautiously combated by cupping or blisters, and the use of mild saline aperients, as citrate of potassa, bitartrate of potassa, or even sulphate of magnesia in ap- propriate doses ; and the irritation and cough- ing may be allayed by small doses of the salts of morphia, tincture or extract of henbane, and expectorants, with any of the ordinary demulcents. The night-sweats are often alle- viated by the administration of draughts con- taining dilute sulphuric acid; and the ex- hausting diarrhoea, by the common cretaceous mixture, to which a little tincture of catechu may be added, with small doses of rhubarb and bicarbonate of potassa at intervals. Change of air is commonly recommended, but is seldom attended with advantage when the residence of the patient is already in a healthy locality. Numerous jwre/ended specifics in phthisis have at different times been brought before the public, but all of them, after a short course of puffing, have sunk into oblivion. The inhala- tion of air mixed with the vapour of chlorine,