348 BRANDY. a pale amber; and hence, even when thus coloured,.it is frequently called ‘white brandy’ by the uninitiated. “Eau-de-vie ordinaire,” or common brandy, is distilled from inferior or spoilt white or red wines; average sp. gr. about 0-9476 (from 22 to 27 u.p.). It forms the ‘ ordinary brandy \ of the taverns and hotels; and, after being ‘ made up ’ with plain spirit to 1 or 2 u.p., a very large portion of that which is exported. Of each of the above varieties there are numerous degrees of qualities, which are fur- ther increased in number by their admixture, and hy the addition to them of plain spirit. “Eau-de-vie de marc.” From the lees of sour, damaged, and inferior red wines, the marc or cake of grapes, &c., distilled by a quick fire, to drive over as much essential oil and flavouring matter as possible. Coarse flavoured and inferior. Used chiefly to mix with other brandy, or to flavour plain spirit. “ Eaucde-vie seconde.” The weak spirit that passes over, after the receiver has been changed. Very weak and inferior. “Eau-de-vie a preuve d’Hollande.” Sp. gr. •941 to *942 (18 to 20 u.p.). The common strength at which brandy is retailed in France, and that at which it stands the ‘proof’ or ‘ bead’ “ Eau-de-vie a preuve d’huile.” Sp. gr. •9185 (about 23° Baurn^ or 1^ o.p.); pure olive-oil just sinks in it. It is the strongest brandy kept for retail sale in France. “ Eau-de-vie forte” From coinmon brandy distilled at a low temperature. It answers to our spirit of wine. Sp. gr. ^839 (38° Baum4 or 55° o.p.). “Esprit de vin” is brandy or spirit, care- fully rectified to -861 (28° Baume, or 42 o.p., and upwards). Pur., <^c. The method of determining the strength of brandy is explained under ‘Al- COHOLOMETEY.’ Of the large quantity of this liquor consumed in England, we can assure the reader, that a small fraction only escapes adulteration. Pure French brandy is indeed an article quite unattainable by the small consumer. The brandy of our shops and taverns is not only systematically ‘lowered’ a little (with spirit of wine or British brandy) by the wholesale dealer, but it undergoes a like process, but to a much greater extent, at the hands of the retailer. The only method to obtain perfectly pure brandy is either to take it direct from the bond store, without allowing it to enter a private cellar even for an hour, or to buy it of some known respect- able party, and to pay a price that offers no inducement to dishonesty. When this cannot be done, British brandy had better be at once purchased, hy which money will be saved, and a more wholesome article obtained. French brandy, as already noticed, is com- monly ‘ lowered’ with water, malt-brandy, and spirit of wine, by which its original flavoiir is more or less weakened and injured. This spe- cies of adulteration is best detected by the ‘palate.’ Another, and no very uncommon fraud practised by the retailers, is to reduce their brandy with a larger quantity of water than the strength fixed by the excise laws and honesty to their customers would permit. As a natural consequence their liquor suffers so greatly in flavour, and its deficiency in alcohol becomes so apparent, that they soon see the necessity of either abandoning the nefarious practice, or resorting to others of a like kind to disguise it. The latter alternative is com- monly adopted. An excess of sugar-colouring (‘burnt sugar’) is immediately introduced into the spirit, followed hy sundry portions of cayenne pepper, grains of paradise, horse-radish, acetic acid, almond cake, and ofhQr flavouring and acrid substances, to give it a pungency and ‘make-helieve strength’ that “passesmuster” with the petty consumer. This fraud may be detected by gently evaporating a little of the suspected liquor in a spoon or glass capsule, when the acrid matter, colouring, and sugar, will be left behind, and may be readily de- tected by their flavour, sweetness, glutinosity, &c. A little perfectly pure brandy evaporated in a similar manner, (on a watch-glass, for in- stance,) merely leaves a trifling discoloration on the surface of the glass. Genuine French brandy always reddens blue litmus paper, from containing a little acetic acid; the old coloured varieties are also blackened by a solution of a persalt of iron. Sometimes brandy is con- taminated with a small quantity of ‘lead’ or ‘ copper,’ derived from the apparatus or utensils with which it has been prepared or measured. ‘ Sugar of lead’ has also sometimes been used by the ignorant dealer to clarify it. The pre- sence of these highly deleterious substances may be detected in the following manner :— 1. COPPEE:—a. A small piece of clean polished iron or steel immersed in the sus- pected liquid for a short time, (with agita- tion,) becomes coated with a film of metallic copper) when that metal is present. To facili- tate the precipitation of the metal, the sample under examination may be slightly acidulated with a few drops of pure acetic acid. Minute traces of copper may sometimes be detected on the surface of the iron with a lens, which would be passed over unnoticed by the naked eye. b. (Bottger). A little of the hrandy is to be agitated with a few drops of pure olive oil. The latter will acquire a green colour if copper be present. 2. Lead :—a. Sulphuretted hydrogen and hydrosulphuret of ammonia produce a black precipitate or discoloration in brandy containing lead.—b. A solution of sulphate of soda {Glauber-salts), or water soured with sulphuric acid, produces a heavy white precipitate, which turns when moistened with hydrosulphuret of ammonia. Concluding Remarks. In the ‘trade,’ the addition of water (‘ liquor ’) to spirit is tech- nically called ‘ reducing; ’ whilst absolute