169 ANGOLA—ANILIC ACID. ; cession of aparoxysniy the patient should always I keep by him “ a small bottle of compound spirit of sulphuric ether, another of spirit of sal volatile, and a third of paregoric elixir. In j case of an attack, from half a teaspoonful to a 1 teaspoonful of each should be given in a wine- ; glassful of water, and repeated every few ininutes during the continuance and recur- rence of the fit,”^ an easy supine or reclining I posture being at the same time maintained. I Recently, hydrocyanic acid (in small doses, ! cautiously administered) has been stated to be almost specific in relieving the paroxysms of this distressing affection. I Angina pectoris, in its more severe forms, is I most prevalent among males who have nearly , reached, or who have exceeded, their fiftieth year. ANGO'LA. Syn. Ango'la-wool, Ango"iia- 1 w., Ango'na-w., &c. j Foil de cheveon d’An- ' GOBI, Fr. j (Engoor', Engour', or Engu'ri) Tiftic, Tur. The wool of ‘ ca'pra Angoren'sis’ I or the Angora-goat, of which the shawls of j Cashmere are made, and others in imitation of I them. It is also used to make plush, light , cloths for paletots which are repellent of wet, j &c.; and is extensively employed, in France, in i the manufacture of lace more brilliant than that ' of Valenciennes and Chantilly, and at ^a^the ' price. See Alpaca, Suawls, Wool, &c. ANGOSTU"IlA, Angustu"ra (-ture'-a). See CUSPAEIA. i False Angostura. See Betjcea, Cfspaeia, ) and Stryciinos. I ANGOSTU"RINE, Angustu"rine (in). See _ CUSPAEINE. J aNHY'DROUS (-driis; an’hydrous, as marked i by Brande, is less usual). Syn. An'hydeus (or -hi'-, which is more com.), L. j Anhydee, i Fr.; Wasseefrei, Ger. Free from water; I dry. Ill chemistry and mineralogy, a term fre- quently applied to substances, as acids, alcohol, gases, salts, minerals, &c., which do not contain either free or combined water. Gases may generally be- rendered anhydrous, by passing them through a tube containingchloride of calcium, or (with ammonia and two or three others) quicklime, in coarse powder; and some of them, by passing them through concentrated sulphuric acid. Salts may generally be dried by cautiously submitting them to the action of heat, or by exposure to a very dry atmo- sphere ; and alcohol, and many other vola- tile FLUIDS, by careful distillation from chloride of calcium, or some other highly hy- grometric substance. AN'IL. [Fr., Sp., L.] The indigof'era anil of botanists—one of the plants yielding ‘ in- digo’—a native of America, but now largely cultivated in the East Indies. See Indigo (and below). ANIL'IC ACID. Syn. Indtgo'ic acid, Indigot'ic a., Niteanil'ic a., Ni'teo- ^ Dr. A. Franipton. Dr. P. Latham is now one of the most recent writers on this disease, and is also one of tlie most successful in its treatment. salicyl'ic a., N.-spieoyl'ic a. ; Acidum anil'icum, a. indigot'icum, &c., L. ; Acide ANILIQUE, A. INDIGOTIQUE, &C., Fr.; IndIG- SAURE, &c., Ger. The name given by Dumas to the ‘ indigotic acid ’ of Chevreul, and now generally accepted by chemists. Prep. 1. Indigo, in powder, is added gradually to a boiling mixture of nitric acid, 1 part, and water, 10 or 12 parts, until effervescence ceases, a little water being dropped in from time to time, to prevent the formation of ‘ carbazotic acid;’ the resulting liquid is decanted whilst hot, and the crystals which are deposited as it cools, are redissolved in boiling water ; acetate of lead is then added to the solution as long as a brown precipitate falls; the filtered liquor, on cooling, deposits crystals of anilate of LEAD, which, by re-solution in boiling water, and decomposition with dilute sulphuric acid, furnish a liquid which deposits nearly pure ANILIC ACID, as it cools. 2. By acting on salicine, or salicylic acid, with rather strong nitric acid. Prop., Sfc. Crystals, either colourless or yellowish-white needles; scarcely soluble in cold water; freely soluble in boiling water and in alcohol; fusible, and, with care, sub- limes unchanged, recondensing in fine white needles. With the bases it forms soluble and crystallisable salts (an'ilates, indigo'ates, in'digotates, &c. ; an'ilas, indig'otas, &c., L. sing.), nearly all of which have a yellowish hue, and deflagrate when heated. It is iso- meric and identical with ‘ nitro-salicylic acid and ‘ nitro-spiroylic acid’ (which see). ANTLINE (-in). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Phenyl'- AMINE, BEN'ziDAMf, Ben'ZIDINE*, CeYS'TAL- LINE*, Cy'aNOLE* or KY'ANOLE*,lN'DIGOGENt, &c. Anili'na, Anili'num, &c., L. A pecu- liar volatile organic base first noticed by Unverdorben in empyreurnatic bone-oil, and afterwards obtained by Runge from coal-tar, and by Fritzsche, Zinin, A. W. Hofmann, and others, as a product of various reactions, pro- cesses, and decompositions, particularly those attending the destructive distillation of or- ganic bodies. Prep, Aniline is now almost invariably ob- tained, on the large scale, either directly or in- directly from coal-tar or indigo; and chiefly from the basic oil or naphtha, or the nitroben- zole, of which the former is the principal source. The following are the leading com- mercial and experimental processes:— 1. From COAL-TAR or coal-tar naphtha :— The basic oil or basic portion of coal-tar or coal-tar naphtha, forming the latter, denser, and least volatile products of the distillation or rectification of these substances, is strongly agitated, for some time, along with hydrochloric acid in slight excess, a glass globe, or, on the large scale, a suitable vessel of lead, or of enamelled iron, being employed for the pur- pose ; the clear portion of the liquid (contain- ing the ‘ hydrochlorates ’ of the ‘ bases ’ pre- * See tlie respective names iu tlieir alphabetical places.