510 DECOCTION. i over them, in horizontal layers, alternately at right angles with each other. Three or four boards, with as many iron | cwt. weights, are next placed on the top of the whole. Water is now run in, to about 10 inches higher than the ingredients, and heat is applied until ebullition commences. The materials are now allowed to macerate, without boiling, for 3 or 4 hours, after which the liquor is gently boiled for about an hour, care being taken to add fresh water from time to time, so as to keep the whole well covered. The decoction is next run off, and set evaporating as quickly as possible. The ingredients are then washed with successive portions of boiling water, by allowing it to descend from a species of shower-bath, after the manner of ‘sparging,’ described under BREWiNa.^ This is repeated until the water runs off nearly colourless, the smallest quantity being employed that will effect the object in view. The whole of the liquid is now evaporated without delay, until reduced to 8i gall,, when, after cooling, 2 dr. of essential oil of sassafras, dissolved in 2 gall, of rectified spirit of wine, are added, and after- wards, 1 pint of essence of guaiacum. The liquid is then placed in a suitably sized barrel, set upon its head, and fitted with a small cock {not placed too near the bottom), and allowed to repose for a week, by which time it becomes clear and brilliant, and fit for sale. This is the form adopted by the large metropolitan drug-houses most celebrated for this prepara- tion. The product that may be drawn off fit for sale is something over 10 gall. The re- siduum, forming the ‘ bottoms,’ consists chiefly of fecula. The latter is well stirred up with 3 or 4 gall, of cold water, and allowed to settle. The clear decanted ‘ washings’ are used as water or liquor in making the next batch of decoction. 2. (Extemporaneous.) Compound extract of sarsaparilla, 7^ oz.; boiling water, 12, fi. oz.; dissolve, then add of rectified spirit of wine, 2^ fl. oz.; mix well, and further add of water, q. s. to make the whole measure a pint, Obs. To conduct this process successfully, several large copper pans are required; one of which (to boil the ingredients in) must be capable of containing from 140 to 150 gallons at the least, and the others must be sufficiently large to receive the liquors as they are drawn off. Those for the evaporation should be very shallow, in order that it may proceed rapidly; and the whole should be heated by steam. An excellent plan is, to employ large wooden vats, and to apply the heat by means of pipes laid along the bottom, and supplied with high- pressure steam. This method is less expensive than the use of double steam pans, as above. When essence of guaiacum is not used, 24 lb. oi guaiacum shavings, from which the dust has been sifted, are boiled with the other ingre- dients, instead. Those desirous of using the proportions of the ingredients ordered by the 1 See 363. Colleges, may do so by taking eight times the given quantities, and proceeding as above. The following are special preparations :— Feltz’s Decoction of Sarsapaeilla. Syn. Ap'oZEM of FeLTZ ; DeCOCTEII SAEZ-E cu:h ichthyocol'la, L.; Ptisane de Feltz, Fr. Prep. From sarsaparilla (sliced), 3 oz.; isin- glass and crude antimony (in powder), of each, ioz,; water, 5 pints; boil to one half, and strain. Used in skin diseases. Jaepeeand’s Decoction of Sarsaparilla. Syn. Decoctem saez.e cem eadice China, L.; Ptisane de Jaepeeand, Fr. Prep. (Bories.) Sarsapay'illa and China root, of each, 2 oz.; senna and sassafras chips, of each, 1 oz,; rhu- barb and Peruvian bark, of each, oz.; car- bonate ofpotassa, 1 dr.; water, 2 gall.; simmer, gently, for several hours, and strain 12 pints; when cold, decant the clear. Dose. 2 fl. oz., two or three times daily; in scrofula, &c. Vinache’s Decoction of Sarsaparilla. Syn. Decoctem saez.e cem senna, L. ; Pti- sane DE ViNACHE, Fr. Prep. (Foy.) Sarsa- parilla, China wood, and guaiacum wood, of each, oz.; crude antimony (tied in a rag), 2 oz.; water, 6 pints; macerate for 12 hours (7 in hot weather), boil to one half, add sassafras chips and senna, of each, ^ oz., in- fuse 1 hour longer, and strain ; when cold, decant the clear. Becommended in scrofula, secondai’y syphilis, and various cutaneous affections. Zittmann’s Decoction of Sarsaparilla. Syn. Decoctem Zittmanni, L. ; Ptisane de ZiTTMANN, Fr. Prep. 1. (Stronger decoc- tion ; D, Z. FORTE, Ph. Bor. 1847.) Sarsa- parilla, 12 oz,; water, 72 1b. (say, 5| gall.); digest 24 hours, then add (suspended in a bag), white sugar and alum, of each, 6 dr.; calomel, 4 dr.; cinnabar, 1 dr.; boil to 24 lb., adding towards the end of the process, senna, 3 oz. ; liquorice root, 1^ oz.; aniseed and fennel seed, of each, ^ oz.; finally strain, ivith pressure, and after some time decant the clean portion. The formula in the Dh. Suec. 1845 is similar; that in the Hamburg Codex directs only 24 lb. of^ water to be used, and the whole to be reduced to 161b. 2. (Weaker decoction; D. Z. tenee,— Ph. Bor, 1847.) Add to the residuum (waste) of the last preparation, sarsaparilla, 6 oz.; ivater, 72 lb. (say, 5| gall.); boil to 24 1b.; adding towards the end of the process, lemon peel, cinnamon bark, liquorice root, and carda- moms (all bruised), of each, 3 dr.; press, strain, &c,, as before. In the Ph. Suec. 1845 double the above weights of lemon peel and liquorice root are ordered; and in the Ham- burg Codex (1845) 24 lb. of water only are ordered, and the whole is to be boiled down to 16 lb. Obs. Both the above are used in Germany and on the Continent generally, in the same cases as those in which compound decoction of sarsaparilla is administered in England. They may be drunk almost ad libitum. A trace of li I I