903 MERCURY. quantity), made into pills with cruin of bread, or in alcoholic solution; as a gargle or lotion, 10 gr.,to water, 1 pint; as an ointment, 10 or 12 gr., to lard, 1 oz. Perrocy'anide of Mercury. Syn. Hydeae- GYEi FEEEOCYANIDUM, L. A white powder, which separates from a solution of corrosive suhlimate on the addition of ferrocyanide of potassium. It suffers decomposition almost as soon as precipitated. I I'odate of Mercury. Syn. Hydeaegyei y lODAS, L. Prep. Precipitate a solution of k mercury in nitric acid with a solution of iodate [ of potassa. A yellow powder resembling ‘ Turpeth mineral.’ [ I'odides of Mercury. With iodine, mercury I forms two compounds, the ‘ subiodide’ and I ‘ protiodide,’ sometimes respectively termed > I ‘ iodide’ and ‘ biniodide’:— t 1. Subi'odide of Mercury. Syn. Geeen iodide OF MEECDEY, MeECDEIOUS IODIDE, lODIDE OF ^ M.*,PeOTIODIDE OFM.*,IODUEET OF M.f; HY- , DEAEGYEI SUBIODDM, H. lODIDUM (Ph. L.), H. I. viEiDE (Ph. D.), L. Prep. 1. Precipi- ! tate a solution of suhnitrate of mercury by I another of iodide of potassium ; wash the pre- cipitate, first in a solution of chloride of sodium, , and then in pure water; lastly, dry it in the shade. 2. (Ph. L.) Mercury, 1 oz.; iodine, 5 dr.; triturate together, gradually adding of recti- fied spirit, q. s. (about 1 to 2 fl. dr.), until globules are no longer seen; dry the powder by a gentle heat, in the shade, as quickly as possible, and preserve it in a well-stopped black-glass vessel. The formula of the Ph. D. is similar. Prop., ^c. A heavy, greenish-yellow pow- der ; insoluble in water, alcohol, and a solution of common salt; soluble in ether, and slightly so in an aqueous solution of iodide of potas- sium. “ Freshly prepared, it is yellowish. Heat being cautiously applied, it sublimes in red crystals, which quickly turn yellow, and, on access of light, blacken. It is insoluble in a solution of chloride of sodium.” (Ph. L.) The process of the Ph. L. does not answer when larger quantities than 4 or 5 oz. are prepared at once, owing to the great heat generated by the reaction of the ingredients, and the consequent volatilization of a portion of the iodine, by which the colour of the pro- duct suffers, hose. ^ to 1 gr,, made into pills; “ in syphilis and scrofula, especially where they occur in the same individual.” (Pereira.) It is also used externally, in the form of ointment. It is very poisonous. 2. Proti'odide of Mercury. Syn. Red iodide OF MEECUEY, MeECUEIC IODIDE, lODIDE OF M., Biniodide of m.*, Peeiodide of m.* ; Hydeaegyei iodiddm, H. biniodidum (Ph. I E.), H. lODiDUM EUBEUM (Ph. D.), L. Prep. I 1.. (Ph. L. 1836.) Mercury, loz.; iodine, i 10 dr.; rectified spirit, q. s. (2 or 3 fl. dr.); j triturate until the globules of mercury dis- ! fijipear, and the mixture assumes a scarlet colour, then dry it in the shade, and preserve it in a well-stoppered vessel. 2. (Ph. E.) Mercury, 2 oz.; iodine, 2| oz.; spirit, q. s.; triturate together as last, dissolve the product, by brisk ebullition,in concentrated solution of chloride of sodium, 1 gall., filter whilst boiling hot, wash the crystals that are deposited as the solution cools, and dry them. 3. (Ph. D.) Corrosive sublimate, 1 oz. ; hot distilled water, 25 fl. oz.; dissolve; iodide of potassium, l:f oz.; water, 5 fl. oz.; dissolve; wdien the solutions are cold, mix them, collect the precipitate on a paper filter, drain it, wash it with distilled water, 10 fl. oz., and dry it at a heat not above that of boiling w^ater. Prop., ^c. A bright scarlet powder, inso- luble in water, but soluble in alcohol, and in the solutions of several of the iodides and chlorides. It is also soluble in cod-liver oil, and in several other fixed oils. Bose, -j’g to \ gr., dissolved in alcohol or made into a pill; in the same cases as the subiodides, from which it differs chiefly in its greater energy and j)ois- onous qualities. Obs. The last is the most convenient pro- cess; but the Edinburgh formula produces the most sightly preparation. The treatment with a solution of common salt may, however, be applied to biniodide of mercury prepared by any other process. Not more than 4 or 5 oz. can be conveniently prepared at a time by direct admixture of the ingredients, as in the first process, for the reasons already stated. “ By heat, cautiously applied, it is (entirely) sublimed in scales, which soon become yellow, and afterwards, when they are cold (or at once if touched by a hard body) red. It is partially soluble in boiling rectified spirit, and the solution aflbrds crystals as it cools. It is alternately dissolved and precipitated by iodide of potassium and ‘ bichloride of mercury’ (corrosive sublimate). It is completely so- luble in a solution of chloride of sodium.” (Ph. L. 1836.) “ Entirely soluble in 40 parts of a concentrated solution of muriate of soda at 212°, and is again deposited in fine red crystals on cooling.” (Ph. E.) The bright yellow powder that forms wdien a mixed solution of subnitrate and protonitrate of mercury (the latter in excess) is treated with another of iodide of potassium, is said to be ‘ SESQDI-IODIDE OF MEECUEY.’ It is sometimes used in place of the ‘ subiodide.’ It should be purified by digestion in a concentrated so- lution of common salt, and then washed and dried. Iodide of Mercury and Potassium. Syn. lODO-HYDEAEGYEATE OF POTASSIUM; HY- DEAEGYEI ET poTASSii lODiDUM, L. Prep. 1. (M. Boullay.) Red iodide of mercury, iodide of potassium, and water, equal parts; dissolve by heat, and crystallize by evaporation or refrigeration, or gently evaporate to dry- ness. 2. (Puche.) From red iodide of mercury and iodide of potassium, equal partSj triturated