1105 POMMADE. VU3TINES; B1L1FSTI.E), as well as those of le cultivated one (cytini), are tonic and a- i ringent. Dose. 15 to 20 gr., of the root- jirk, repeated every 30 or 40 minutes, until i,iur doses have been taken, followed by castor 1; in tape-worm. As an astringent, all the irts described are commonly given under the n-in of decoction. POMMADE. [Fr.] The term applied by ontinental perfumers to any soft fragi’ant ntinent (pomatum). In the preparation of pommades, one of the •st objects of consideration is to obtain their I tty basis in as fresh and pure a state as pos- ble. Lard, beef and mutton suet, beef mar- m, veal fat, and bear's fat, are the substances )inmonly employed for this purpose, either ngly or in mixtures of two or more of !iem. The fat, carefully selected from a young id healthy animal, after being separated from draneous skin and fibre, is pounded in a arble mortar, in the cold, until all the mem- •anes are completely torn asunder. It is ?xt placed in a covered porcelain or polished etal pan, and submitted to the heat of a ater bath, which is continued until its fatty irtion has liquefied, and the albuminous and [ueous matter, and other foreign substances, ive completely separated and subsided. The }uid fat is then carefully shimmed, and at ice passed through a clean flannel fllter. In lis state it may be aromatized or perfumed will; after which, when it is intended that le pommade should be opaque and white, it is siduously stirred or beaten with a glass or wden knife, or spatula, until it concretes; it when it is desired that it should appear \amparent or crystalline, it is allowed to cool Ty slowly, and without being disturbed. To •event the accession of rancidity, a little azoic acid, gum benzoin, or nitric ether, may ; added to the fat, whilst in the liquid state, noticed under Fat and Ointment. Some- ines a small portion of white wax or bees' 'fx (according to the intended colour of the ■oduct, is melted with the fat, to increase its lidity. Some parties employ a few grains of >wdered citric acid per ounce, in a like manner, ith the intention of increasing the whiteness ' the compound; but the practice is not to : commended, as pommades so prepared prove jurious to the hair. The French perfumers, wdio are celebrated the variety and excellence of their pom- ades, divide them into four classes:— 1. I’oMJiADES BY INFUSION. Tliesc are ado by gently melting in a clean pan, over water batb, 2 parts of hog's lard, and 1 part beef suet (both of the finest quality, and vcfully ‘ rendered ’), and adding thereto 1 irt of the given flowers, previously carefully ckt'd and seiiaratcd from foreign matter; or, the odorous substance is a solid, then coarsely ■uised, but not reduced to fine powder. The ixture is next digested at a very gentle heat r from 1.2 to 21 hours, -with occasional stir- ring, the vessel being kept covered as much as possible during the whole time. The next day the mixture is reheated, and again well stirred for a short time, after which it is poured into canvass bags, and these being securely tied, are submitted to powerful pres- sure, gradually increased, in a screw or barrel press. This operation is repeated with the same fat and fresh flowers, several times, until the pommade is sufficiently perfumed. A good pommade requires thrice to six times its w^eight in flowers to be thus consumed; or of the aromatic barks and seeds a corresponding pro- portion. The POMMADES OF CASSIA, OEANGE FLOWERS, and several others kept by the French perfumers, are prepared in this man- ner. 2. Pommades by contact (enfleueage). These are made by spreading, with a pallette knife, simple pommade (made with lard and suet as above) on panes of glass or pewter plates, to the thickness of a finger, and sticking the surface all over with the sweet-scented flowers. These last are renewed daily for one, two, or three months, or until the pommade has become sufficiently perfumed. On the large scale, the panes are placed in small shallow frames, made of four pieces of wood nicely fitted together, and are then closely piled one upon another. On the small scale, pewter plates are generally used, and they are inverted one over the other. In some of the perfumeries of France many thousands of frames are employed at once. The pommades OF JASMIN, JONQUIL, OEANGE-FLOWEES, NAR- CISSUS, TUBEROSE, VIOLET, and of some other delicate flowers, are prepared in this manner. 3. Pommades by addition. These are prepared by simply adding the fragrant essences or essential oils, in the required quantity, to the simple pommade of lard and suet to pro- duce the proper odour. In this way the pom- mades OF bergamotte, cedrat, cinnamon, LEMONS, LEMON THYME, LAVENDER, LIMETTES, MARJORAM, Portugal, roses, rosemary, THYME, VERBENA, and above 40 others kept by the Parisian perfumers, are made. 4. Mixed pommades. Of these a great variety exists, prepared by the addition of judicious combinations of the more esteemed perfumes to simple j^ommade ; or, by the ad- mixture of the different perfumed pommades, whilst in the semi-liquid state. (See below.) The COLOURED POMMADES derive their re- spective tints from tinctorial matter added to the melted fat before perfuming it. Green is given by gum guaiacum (in powder), or by the green leaves or to2)S of spinach, parsley, lavender, or walnut;—Ped, by alkanet root and carmine ;—Yellow and orange, by an- natto or palm of/.—White pommades arc made with mutton suet, instead of beef suet, 'fhe BROVfN and black hard pomatums, vended under the name of ‘ cosmetique,^ are noticed at page 486. A few compound pommades arc used as skin cosmetics. 70