POTASSA. 1117 [hereby ensured; for should not the whole of lie chromate of iron he decomposed by the ,rst calcination, it may easily be roasted a iccond time with fresh alkali, should the re- lainin:^ quantity be thought worth the trouble, j’he nature of the furnace to be employed in he conversion is not of any great importance, jo long as carbonaceous matters from the fire re entirely excluded, and the required tempe- ature is attainable. I 2. Bichro'mate of Potassa. Syn. Red cheo- jfATE .OF POTASH, ACID C. OF P. ; POTASS^ hciiEOMAS, L. Prep. 1. To a concentrated elution of yellow chromate of potassa, sulphu- ric acid, or, better, acetic acid, is added in I uantity equal to one half that required for jhe entire decomposition of the salt; the liquid then concentrated by evaporation, and slowly ooled, so that crystals may form. 2. (Jacquelain.) Chrome ore, finely ground nd sifted, is mixed with chalk; the mixture 3 spread on a thin layer on the hearth of a everberatory furnace, and heated to bright edness, with repeated stirring, for 9 or 10 lOurs. The yellowish-green product consists ssentially of neutral chromate of lime, mixed jvith oxide of iron. It is ground and stirred lip with hot water, and sulphuric acid is added I ill a slight acid reaction becomes apparent, ), sign that the neutral chromate has been con- ! erted into acid chromate of lime. Chalk is !iow stirred in to precipitate the sulphate of ,ron, and after a while the clear solution (acid I hromate of lime) is run olF into another vessel, jvhere it is treated with carbonate of potassa, 'vhich precipitates the lime and leaves acid I'hromate of potassa (bichromate) in solution. Che solution is then evaporated to the crys- allizing-point. This process, when carried )ut on a large scale, is very economical. Prop., c^c. It forms very beautiful, square jables, or flat four-sided prismatic crystals; )crmanent in the air; soluble in 10 parts of water at 60°, and in less than 3 parts at 212° Aihr.; it has a metallic^ bitter taste, and is wisonous. It is chiefly used in dyeing and jleaching, and as a source of chromic acid. The tests, &c., are the same as for the yellow ;hromate. Cit'rate of Potassa. Syn. Potassa3 citeas, b. Prep. 1. (Ph. U. S.) From a solution of ntric acid neutralized with bicarbonate of po- 'assa, evaporated, and granulated, or crystal- i/ed; very deliquescent. Or, extempora- neously, in the form of solution, by adding carbonate or bicarbonate of potassa to lemon ’mice, as in the common effervescing draught. See Acidflated Kali (page 809). Cy'anate of Potassa. Sy7i. Potass.e ctanas, li. Prep. 1. By roasting, at a red heat, dry ferrocyanide of potassium in fine powder, upon m iron ])latc, constantly stirring it until it becomes fused into one mass, which must be reduced to fine powder, and digested in boiling alcohol, from which crystals of the cyanate will be deposited as the solution cools. 2. (Liebig.) A mixture of ferrocoanide of potassium, with half its weight of; roxide of manganese, may also be used to produce this salt, as the last; the compound should be kindled by a red-hot body, and allowed to smoulder away, after Avhich it may be treated with alco- hol. as before. Obs. This salt is poisonous. The cyanates of SILVEE, LEAD, and many other metals, may be made by adding a solution of cyanate of potassa to another of a neutral salt of the base. Fer'rate of Potassa. See Feeeic Acid {page 635). Ferro-prus'siate of Potassa. See Feeeocy- ANIDE OF POTASSIUAI. Hy'drate of Potassa. Syn. Potassa, Cafstic p., Hydeated oxide of potassifh ; Potassa (Ph. E.), P. CAFSTICA (Ph. D.), P. HYDEAS (Ph. L.), P. FFSA, CaFTEEIUM POTENTIALEf, Lapis alkalinfsI”, L* cafsticfsI, L. infee- XALisf, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Liquor of potassa, 1 gall.; evaporate the water in a clean iron vessel over the fire until, the ebullition being finished, the residuum of hydrate of potassa liquefies; pour this into proper moulds. 2. (Ph. E. & D.) As the last, but pouring the fused hydrate upon a bright and clean iron plate {silver or iron dish—Ph. D.) ; “ as soon as it solidifies, break it quickly (into fragments), and put it into stoppered glass {green-glass— Ph. b.) bottles. 3. (Pure.) The hydrate, obtained as above, is dissolved in alcohol or rectified spirit, and, after repose for a few days in a closely stopped green-glass or silver vessel, the solution is de- canted, and cautiously evaporated in a deep silver basin, out of contact with the air. Prop., ^'c. When perfectly pure, it is white, solid, very soluble in water and in alcohol; very deliquescent; intensely acrid and corro- sive ; and exhibiting the usual signs of alka- linity in the highest degree. That of the shops has usually a grayish or bluish colour. “ Boiling water commonly leaves oxide of iron undissolved, which should not exceed l*25g.” (Ph. E.) “ It should be totally soluble in rec- tified spirit." (Ph. L.) Its dilute solution should be scarcely affected by the nitrates of baryta and silver. It is chiefly used as a caustic, and in chemistry. See Solftion (Liquor) OF Potassa. Hydri'odate of Potassa. See Iodide of POTASSIFH. Hydrobro'mate of Potassa. See Beomide OF POTASSIFAI. Hydrocyan'ate of Potassa. See Cyaxide of POTASSIFM. Hypochlo"rite of Potassa. See Solftioxs. I'odate of Potassa. Syn. Potass.e iodas, L. Prep. 1. Neutralize a hot solution of potassa with iodine, evaporate to dryness by a gentle heat, powder the residuum, and digest it in alcohol, to remove iodide of potassium ; dissolve the insoluble portion in hot water, and crystallize. Obs. lodate of potassa is resolved at a red