! 478 COPAIBIC ACID. sample with a lye of caustic soda, and setting the mixture aside to repose, the balsam after a time rises to the surface, and the fatty oil present (if any) forms a soapy, thick mass below. 6. (‘ Journ. de Pharm.,’ 1842.) Pure copaiba may be adulterated with 50 per cent, of a fat oil (nut, almond, or castor oil), without it ceasing to give a clear solution with 2 parts of alcohol; but it combines badly with mag- nesia and ammonia. Excess of alcohol, how- ever, separates the oil in all cases. The best test for detecting the fat oils is the use of pure alcohol, to which some caustic potash has been added. Uses, 8fc. Balsam of copaiba is considered detersive, vuhierary, diuretic, and astringent; and appears to possess a sort of specific power over diseases of the mucous membranes of the urino-genital organs. It is hence a favorite remedy in gonorrhoea, as soon as the first in- flammatory symptoms have subsided, anti- phlogistic and soothing measures being pre- viously adopted. Dose. 20 to 60 drops on sugar, fioating on water, or made into an emul- sion with yolk of egg or gum arable, 3 or 4 times daily, if the stomach will bear it. The addition of a few drops of sweet spirits of nitre and laudanum have been recommended, to allay the nausea. By adding 1 dr. of oil of orange (ol. aurantii) to each oz. of the balsam, its flavour becomes far from disagreeable, and it sits well upon the stomach. Copaiba is also given in capsules and pills. See Capsules, Emulsion, Oil, Pills, &c. Obs. Numerous preparations of this article are sold under such names as ‘soluble co- paiba,’ ‘specific solution,^ ‘salt of copaiba’ &c.; none of these appear to possess equal activity and certainty of operation to the natural balsam. As the whole virtue of copaiba as a medicine depends on the essential oil it contains, the value of any of these pre- parations may be estimated by the quantity of that article which is found in them. In the case of the first two articles above named, the quantity is very small indeed, and in the last it is wholly deficient. The following forms are current in the trade for the reduction (adulteration) of balsam of capivi:— 1. Balsam of copaiba, 4 lb.; castor oil, 3 lb.; mix well. 2. Balsam, 7 lb.; castor oil, 4 lb.; yellow resin, 2 lb. 3. Equal parts of balsam of copaiba and Canada balsam. 4. To the last add, Venice turpentine, 1 lb. 5. Balsams of Canada and copaiba, and nut or castor oil, equal parts. 6. Copaiba, 7 lb.; nut oil, 3 lb.; yellow resin, 2 lb.; Canada balsam, 1 lb. Used to fill the cheap capsules; and to sell in the lower parts of London and in the manufacturing districts. See also Factitious Copaiba {below). Facti"tious Copaiba. Syn. Copai'ba fac- ti"tia, Bal'samum copai'ba facti"tium, L. Prep. 1. Castor oil (warm), 7 quarts ; copaiba bottoms, 1 quart; mix, and filter through fiannel. 2. Castor oil, 1 gall.; yellow resin, 3 lb.; Canada balsam, 2 lb. ; oil of juniper, 2 oz.; oil of savine, 1 oz.; essences of orange and lemon, of each, ^ oz. ; powdered benzoin, 1 oz.; melt the resin with the castor oil I and benzoin, and when nearly cold add the essences. 3. Canada balsam, 9 lb.; castor oil, 7 lb.; yellow resin, 1 lb.; Venice turpentine, 2 lb.; oils of rosemary, juniper, and savine, of each, 1 dr.; essential oil of almonds, 20 drops. 4. Canada balsam, 3 lb.; Venice turpentine, 1 lb.; oils of fennel, juniper, and savine, of each, q. s. Used chiefly to fill capsules. It is readily distinguished from balsam of copaiba by the i proper tests. (See above.) Train oil or nut oil is frequently substituted for the castor , oil. Copaiba and Kali. Syn. Copaiba cum potassa, L. Prep. Carbonate of potassa and water, of each, equal parts ; dissolve, and add, gradually, transparent balsam of copaiba, until the fiuid, at first milky, turns quite clear. Resembles miscible copaiba (see below). ! Mis'cible Copaiba. Prep. From balsam of , copaiba (pure and transparent), mixed with half its volume of liquor of potassa made of double the strength ordered in the Ph. L. Obs. As different samples of copaiba often require slightly different quantities of the solution of potassa, it is best to mix the two gradually and cautiously together. Should the mixture be opaque, a little more of one or other of the ingredients, as the case may be, will render it clear. No heat must be used. This article is miscible with water, with which it forms a kind of milk ; and from containing all the volatile oil of the copaiba, is a very valuable preparation. Its activity is considered equal to that of the balsam itself, and it is given in similar doses. Sol'uble Copaiba. Syn. Copai'ba solu- bil'is, L. Prep. 1. Heat miscible copaiba in an earthen, glass, or bright-tinned copper vessel, to nearly the boiling-point, pour it while still hot into a separator, cover it up, and allow it to cool very slowly. After a few days, draw off the clear portion from a cock or hole placed at or near the bottom of the vessel, observing to reject the first few drops which pass through, and to stop the stream before any of the floating oil {oleum copaibci) reaches the orifice. A very little concentrated liquor of potassa, added before applying the heat, renders it more soluble. Thick, trans- parent, soluble in pure water, and resembles the natural balsam in appearance. 2. Balsam of copaiba and liquor of potassa (Ph. L.), equal parts, by volume ; mix, boil for a few minutes, and then proceed as before. Thinner than the last.