388 CANDLES. either dipped, moulded, or rolled. The cheaper sorts of TALLOW CANDLES are formed by the first process, and wax candles by the last; all the other kinds are moulded. The moulds are tubes of pewter, well polished on the inside, eight or more being fitted into a frame, the upper part of which forms a trough to receive the melted candle material. When in the moulds the candles are inverted; in other words, the bottom of each mould corresponds to the top of the candle. The wick passes through a small hole at the lower extremity of the tube, and is held in the axis by a little bar placed across the top. At the factories of Price’s Patent Candle Company the frames of moulds are ranged close together in long benches, and are filled with hot candle mate- rial from cars running along little railways above them. When quite cold the candles are withdrawn. The plan of pulling them out one by one with the aid of a bodkin has been superseded at the factories above mentioned, by the ingenious device of blowing them out with compressed air. The wicks of ordinary tallow candles are made of the rovings of Turkey skein-cotton, 4 or more of which, according to the intended thickness of the wick, are wound on a reel, from which they are again run off, and cut into the proper lengths. Of late years the wicks of the best candles have been made in such a way that they do not require snuff- ing. This object is effected by causing the wick to bend over, and its end to fall outside the flame, where it is exposed to the oxygen of the air. This bending over is variously brought about.—1. By twisting the wick with one strand shorter than the rest, which, being slightly stretched during the moulding of the candle, contracts again and bends the wick when the fat melts. 2. By plaiting the cotton into a flat wick, which naturally takes the re- quired curve. Such a wick is generally dipped in a solution of borax, which preserves it from being acted upon by the flame except at its extreme point at the edge of the flame. A very fine wire is sometimes included in the plaited wick. 3. In Palmer’s patent two- wicked candles, which were formerly much used in lamps, the wicks are saturated with subnitrate of bismuth ground up with oil; they are then twisted tightly round a wire, which is withdrawn after the candle is moulded. In burning, the ends gradually untwist and stand out of the flame on either side. Other devices are said to be employed. Com'posite Candles. Mould candles formed of a mixture of the hard fatty acid obtained from palm oil and the stearine of cocoa- nut oil. They were introduced in 1840. Other compositions are occasionally used, such as a mixture of spermaceti and hard white tallow, to which a little bleached resin is added. Medicated Candles. These have been pro- posed as a convenient means of diffusing the active principles of certain volatile substances through the atmosphere, and for complete and partial fumigations. They are seldom em- ployed in England. Mercu"rial Candles. From the red sulphuret or the gray oxide of mercury mixed with wax, and a wick of cotton inserted therein. Ee- commended by Mr. Colies for partial mercu- rial fumigation. They are burnt under a glass funnel with a curved neck, the upper orifice of w'hich is directed to the diseased part. Par'affine Candles. From the beautiful translucent substance PAEaeeine (which see). These candles surpass all others in elegance, and are entirely free from odour and greasi- ness. The light produced by 98 lbs. of paraffine candles is equal to that of 120 lbs. of spermaceti, or 138 lbs. of wax, or 144 lbs. of stearic, or 155 lbs. of the best composite candles (Letheby). They are sometimes delicately tinted with red, mauve, violet, crimson, and rose-colour. The Belmontine Candles of Price’s Patent Candle Company are formed of the paraffine of Rangoon tar. Spermace'ti Candles. From spermaceliiydDiCa see). These are very delicate in appearance, but rather expensive. They burn well, but as the melting point of spermaceti is low, 120° Fahr., they will not bear carrying about in the hand without guttering. They are generally adulterated with stearic acid or hard white tallow. Stear'ic Candles. Under this head we may place the various sorts of candles moulded from the hard fatty acids of both animal and vegetable origin. The principal sources whence British manufacturers derive their acids are TALLOW, PALM OIL, and COCOA-NUT OIL. The processes employed for separating them are generally described under Steaeic Acid. Candles formed of the fatty acids can now be prepared so as to imitate and almost rival those of wax and spermaceti; and they are quite as cheap as the nearly obsolete mould candles formed of common tallow. They are extremely hard; they do not grease the hands, and they burn [away brightly and steadily, without giving off any offensive odour. Un- coloured, they are snowy white, but a yellow tint is frequently given them by gamboge. Tal'low Candles. From ordinary tallow or from tallow which has been freed from much of its oleic acid by pressure. These have so unpleasant an odour and are so apt to gut- ter, that they will probably ultimately dis- appear from use. They are, however, sold at so low a price, that among the lower classes they must long retain Iheir hold. For dip candles the wicks are immersed in melted tallow, and after rubbing with the hands, are placed straight and allowed to harden, after whicli they are arranged upon the “ broaches” ready for “ dipping.” For mould candles, the last operation is omitted. Great care is taken to select a cotton that yields the least possible quantity of ash after burning.