1157 QUININE. hstinate internilttents, and in the scrofulous lections of debilitated subjects, j Hydroclilo"rate of Quinine. Si/7i. Chloride QUININE, Muriate of quinine f; Quince Il'DROCULORAS, QUINI.E MURIAS, L. Prep. i lly neutralizing dilute hydrochloric acid jiitli the base, as above. 12. (Pli. Bor.) Chloride of barium, 5 dr.; | \^iliny water, 1 lb.; dissolve, add, gradually,: ! sulphate of quinine, 2 oz.; boil gently for a ^ jiv minutes, filter the solution whilst hot, and |t it aside that crystals may form. j [3. (Quin.® siurias—Ph. 1).) Dissolve! \loride of barium, 123 gr., in distilled water, H. oz.; add of sulphate of quinine, 1 oz., dis- Ived in boiling water, 1^ pint; mix, evaporate e solution to one half, filter, and again eva- rate until spiculm begin to appear; next iow the liquid to cool, collect the crystals, d dry them on bibulous paper. The mother- uor, by further concentration and cooling, 11 yield an additional product. Obs. Hydrochlorate of quinine occurs in Dw-white groups of feathery crystals, of a )ther-of-pearl lustre, which are more freely uble than those of tlie disulphate. iHypophos'phite of Quinine. See page 750. ■Ki'nate of Quinine. Syn. Quin.® kinas, L. ep. (Henry and Plisson.) Extract of yel- V cinchona baric is dissolved in 3 parts of ter, nearly neutralized by carbonate of lime, 211 cautiously neutralized by hydrated oxide lead; from the filtrate the lead is removed sulphuretted hydrogen, after which the eva- rated liquid is treated with alcohol of ‘842, 2 alcohol distilled off, and the residue re- htedly treated with water and alcohol until I thing is separated by these liquids. The liate of quinine is obtained in crystalline jrts, soluble in 4 parts of water and 8 parts I alcohol. •Lac'tate of Quinine. Syn. QuiNa: lactas, I Prep. As the acetate or citrate. By jintaneous evaporation fine crystals may be jtained. Said to agree better wdth dyspeptic Itients than the other salts of quinine. Mu"riate of Quinine. Hydrochlorate of |inine (see above). iNi'trate of Quinine. Syn. Quinae nitras. Prep. As the hydrochlorate, substi- ting dilute nitric acid, or nitrate of baryta . Cod.), for hydrochloric acid or chloride of | irium. IPhos'phate of Quinine. Syn. Quin.h phos- lAS, L. As the ACETATE. Silky, needle-1 iped crystals, with a pearly lustre. It has en highly recommended in intermittents, i associated with rickets and stomach affec- ins. iSnl'phates of Quinine. The salt often called isulphate of quinine ’ is now generally re- rded as the normal sulphate, while the solu- 3 salt, often called the ‘neutral sulphate,’ considered to be an acid salt. This change nomenclature results from doubling the omic weight of the alkaloid quinine:— 1. Acid Sulphate of Quinine. Syn. Sul- phate OF QUININE t. Neutral sulphate of QUININE t. Soluble s. of q. ; Quince sulphas SOLUBILIS, L. Prepi. Yxomsidphate of quinine, 1 oz., dissolved, by the aid of heat, in water, i pint, previously acidulated with dilute sul- phuric acid, 5 fi. dr.; the solution affords crystals on cooling, and more on evaporation. Obs. This salt possesses the advantage of being soluble in about 10 parts of water at 60° Pahr.; but it is seldom used in the crys- talline form; still, as the officinal sulphate (‘disulphate’) is generally prescribed along with a small quantity of dilute sulphuric acid to render it soluble, this^[acid sulphate is, in fact, the compound which is commonly given. It is the ‘ BISULPHATE,’ ‘ SUPERSULPHATE,’ Or ‘ ACID SULPHATE OF QUINA ’ of Soubeiran and other Continental chemists. 2. Sulphate of Quinine. Syn. Normal sul- phate OF QUININE, Disulphate of q. f. Quinine :j:; Quinje disulphas (Ph. L.), Quinjs sulphas (Ph.* E,, D., k U. S., & P. Cod.), L.; Sulphate de quinine, Fr. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Take of yellow cinchona bark, bruised, 7 lb.; sulphuric acid, oz.; (diluted with) water, 6 gall.; boil them for 1 hour, and strain; repeat this a second time for 1 hour, with a like quantity of acid and water, and again strain; next boil the bark for 3 hours, in water, 8 gall., and strain; wash the residue with fresh quantities of boiling distilled water; to the mixed decoctions and washings, add moist hydrated oxide of lead to saturation, decant the supernatant fluid, and wash the sediment with distilled water; boil down the liquor for 15 minutes, and strain, then precipitate the quina with liquor of am- monia, and wash the precipitate (with very cold water) until nothing alkaline is percep- tible; saturate what remains with sulphuric acid, oz., diluted with water, q. s., digest with animal charcoal, 2 oz., and strain; lastly, the charcoal being well washed, evaporate the mixed liquors, that crystals may form. 2. (Ph. E.) This process varies from the last one, in the bark (1 lb.) being first boiled in water (4 pints) along with carbonate of soda (4 oz.); the residuum, being pressed, is moist- ened with water, and again pressed, and this operation is repeated a second and a third time, the object being to remove, as much as possible, the acids, colouring matter, gum, and extractive, before proceeding to extract the alkaloid. Carbonate of soda is also used as the precipitant, instead of ammonia, and the pre~ i cipitale is formed into a sidphate (disulphate) by being stirred with boiling water, 1 pint, to ! which sulphuric acid, 1 fl. scruple, or q. s., is I subsequently added. The crystals, after di- I gestion with prepared animal charcoal, 2 dr., ! are ordered to be dried at a heat not higher j than 140° Fahr. I Obs. This is an excellent process. Lhne 1 (Stolze) and caustic polassa (Badollier & j Schai'lau) have been successfully employed for