73 ALCOHOLOMETRY. the liquor under examination, to a little above the zero point (0) on the scale. This is effected hy suction, by means of a ‘ little piston ’ of lea- ther (i), which fits tightly in the long and wider limb of the pipette; the valve {d) being pre- viously opened by turning the ‘ knob’ {h). The proper quantity of liquor being introduced, and the lower end closed, the piston is moved up and down two or three times, for the purpose of drawing the air-bubbles and absorbed air out of the liquid, the presence of which would vitiate the results of the trial. To allow the piston to be withdrawn without any shock, or the danger of dividing the column abruptly, the rod attached to it is made hollow through- out. In using it, the operator applies the ball of his forefinger to the top of the piston-rod (A), in order to create a vacuum as he raises it; and then withdraws it, to readmit the air when he thrusts it down or removes it from the tube. The excess of liquid (if any) in the pipette, is then run off until its upper surface is exactly level with the zero (0) of the scale, at 25° C., to which it is raised by immersion in a water- hath of that- temperature, as observed by the thermometer ; which is done by very cautiously turning the rod which depresses the valve. The whole apparatus is now again immersed in the water-bath ; and, held by the upper portion of the plate, kept in gentle motion with the hand, until the temperature rises to exactly 50° C., when the co-efficient of expansion is obtained, and hence also the proportion of alcohol—the scale of the instrument being so graduated, from actual experiments previously made upon mixtures of known composition, as to give, at once, theper-centage of alcoholhy VOLUME (nearly).^ e. From the tensioj^ of the vapoue :— Geissler’s alcoholometer.—This method, for which we are indebted to M. Geissler, of Bonn, depends on the measurement of the tension or elastic force of the vapour of the liquid, as in- dicated by the height to which it raises a small column of mercury. The spirit, wine, or other liquor, of which it is desired to ascertain the strength, is put into the ‘ little flask’ (a), which, when completely filled, is screwed on to the ‘ curved glass-tube’ which contains the mer- curial column (which is inverted for the purpose), and is closed by the ‘ stop-cock’ (i ). The in- strument (see engr.), is then placed erect, and the flask and lower part of the tube immersed in a water-bath, as in the previous method. The number, on the graduated scale of the instrument corresponding to the height of the mercury, at the boiling point of the liquor under examination, gives the per-centage of alcohol by volume (nearly). 1 “ Coiiiptes Itendus," xvii, 418. This method furnishes approximative results with great facility and expedition; and, with proper care, these do not vary more than ^ to i of 1^, from those obtained by distillation. Wefind,that by having the diameter of the ‘part of the tube at which the surface of the mercury is acted on by the vapour’ a little larger than that of the 'longer limb,’ and by previously ab- stracting the air from the sample, as in Sil- bermann’s method, or even by agitation and ex- posure in an open vessel, the two may be made to correspond almost exactly. f. From the dipfeeence between the Sp. Gr. BEFORE and after ebullition: Taberie’s METHOD and (ENOMETEE.—The sp. gr. of the sample is first accurately determined by any of the usual methods. It is next carefully evapo- rated, in an open vessel, to one-half it's, volume. The residuum, when cold, is made up with pure water to exactly its original measure ; and the sp. gr. is again ascertained. The difference between the two being due to the spirit origi- nally present, furnishes the means of calcu- lating a new sp. gr., from which the per-centage richness of the sample may be obtained by mere inspection of the Tables. The observed sp. gr. is the true one, whenever the liquor, after ebullition and restoration to its original volume, has the same sp. gr. as water (z. e., I’OOO), at 60° Fahr. Taberie employs a peculiar in- strument, which he calls an cenometer but its use is not essential to his method of alco- holometry. The results are, of course, only approximative, though sufficient for all or- dinary purposes. Prof. Mulder, however, says that he prefers it to any of the previous methods; and that the results, with care, are almost as accurate as those obtained by distillation. g. By means of carbonate of potassa :— g. a. (Brande’s Method.) The liquor for trial is poured into a long, narrow glass-tube (graduated centesimally), until the vessel is half-filled, and, after the addition of about 12^ or 15^ of a strong solution of diacetate of lead, is agitated until the colour is entirely, or nearly removed. Anhydrous carbonate of potassa, in powder, is next added, until it sinks undissolved, even after prolonged agitation of the liquid. The whole is now allowed to repose for a short time, when the ALCOHOL is seen floating on the top of the aqueous portion of the liquid in a well-marked stratum. Its quantity, ‘ read off’ by means of the graduations of the tube, and doubled, gives the per-centage richness of the sample in alcohol, by VOLUME. g., b. (M. Gay-Lussac’s Method.) The sample is agitated with a little finely powdered litharge until it is decoloured and limpid, and is then saturated with dry carbonate of potassa, as before. Obs. This process answers well with the spirituous liquors of commerce, cordials, wines, and the stronger ales; but it requires some address to make it succeed with very weak • From oii'os, iciue; and perpov, a measure.