Si6 DEPOSITION—DEXTEINE. is mixed up with soap lees and a little powdered starch. Boudet’s Depilatory. Pre}}. Hydrosulphate of soda (crystallized), 3 parts; quicklime (in tine powder), 10 parts; starch, 10 parts; mix. To be mixed with water, and applied to the skin, and scraped otf in 2 or 3 minutes with a wooden knife. Very effective and safe. Cazenave’s Depilatory. Syn. Mahon’s d. ; POMMADE EPILATOIEE DE CaZENATE, Er. Prep. Quicklime, 1 part; carbonate of soda, 2 parts; lard, 8 parts; mix. Applied as an ointment. Clii'nese Depilatory. Prep. 1. Quicklime, 8 oz. ; pearlash (dry) and ^ liver of sulphur,' of each, 1 oz.; all reduced to a fine powder; mixed, and kept in a close bottle. 2. (Roseate d.) As No. 1., but coloured with a little rose pink or light red. These preparations are applied in the same manner as ‘ Boudet’s Depilatory.’ Colley’s Depilatory. See Aesenical De- PILATOEY {above). Hydrosul'phate of Lime Depilatory. Prep. (Beasley.) Mix quicklime and water to a thick cream, and pass into the mixture 25 or 30 times its volume of sulphuretted hydrogen gas. AVhen the gas ceases to be absorbed, stop the process. The pulpy mass is spread on paper, and applied for 12 or 15 minutes. It is very effective, but has a most disgusting smell. Spolasco’s depilatory is a very similar prepa- ration (see below). Mechan'ical Depilatory. Syn. Deeilatoey PLASTEE. Prep. From pitch and resin, equal parts, melted together and spread on leather. Applied as a plaster. Bayer’s Depilatory. Prep. Quicklime, 2 oz.; salt of tartar, 4 oz.; charcoal, ^ oz. Less active than ‘Chinese Depilatory.’ Bedwood’s Depilatory. Prep. A strong solution of sulphuret of barium, made into a paste with powdered starch, and applied im- mediately. Mr. Redwood says this is “the best and safest depilatory.” Bo’seate Depilatory. See Chinese Depil- ATOEY {above). Spolasco’s Depilatory. Prep. Freshly pre- pared sulphuret of calcium and quicklime, equal parts. Almost equal to Redwood’s {above). DEP0SI"TI0N (of Metals). See Electeo- type. DEB'BYSHIBE NECK. See Goituee. DESIC'CANTS. Syn. Desiccan'tia, L. In pharmacology, substances that check secretion and dry sores or abraded surfaces, without acting as styptics, or constringing the fibres of the parts to which they are applied. See Asteingents. DESICCA'TION. Syn. Exsicca'tion. The evaporation or drying off of the aqueous portion of solid bodies. Plants and chemical preparations are deprived of their humidity by exposure to the sun, a current of dry air, an atmosphere rendered artificially dry by sulphuric acid, or by the direct application of heat by means of a water bath, a sand bath, or a common fire. Planks and timber are now seasoned, on the large scale, in this way, f by which a condition may be produced, in 2 I; or 3 days, wdhch on the old system is barely attainable in as many years. We endeavoured to enforce the importance and value of the dessication of w'ocds to the builder, cabinet , maker, architect, and civil engineer, so long back as 1843, but failed to obtain support in carrying out our views. Since that period, certain persons have availed themselves, com- mercially, of our ideas and experiments on j the subject, without any acknowledgment, 4, either verbal or pecuniary. j DESSERT'. The last service at dinner, » consisting of fruits, confections, &c. It is here that the genius of the cuisinier revels in the happiest and most tasteful creations, i whilst both hemispheres and both worlds are t laid under tribute to meet the demands of man’s caprice. In the dessert, the business of the cook is elevated to the dignity of one of the fine arts, and merely requires wealth and patronage to be brought out in forms as attractive as the most enchanting statue of god or goddess that was ever raised on the altars of human idolatry. The term, as well as most of the refinements and excellencies of the dessert, are of French origin. ‘‘In all the countries of Europe, the splendour of the 1 dessert has, ever since the period of its intro- i duction, kept pace with the progress of refine- ! raent and civilization; and, by gastronomes, ^ the qualities and arrangement of a dessert are looked upon as the most valid test of all that is attic in taste and refined in elegance.” (Brande.) DESTEM'PER. Syn. Distempee. Colours ground up with size, gum, or white of egg, and ; water, as in scene painting. The art of execu- . ting w'ork in distemper, is called ‘ destemper ^ painting.' DETER"GENT. An agent having the power of removing offensive matter from the skin. The name is now generally restricted to appli- cations that tend to cleanse foul wounds and ulcers. Collier’s Detergent. Prep. From liquor of potassa, 2 fl. dr.; rose-water, 5^ fi. oz.; spirit of rosemary, \ fl. oz.; mix. One of the best applications known to free the head from scurf, when the hair is strong and healthy. The head should be afterwards sponged with clean, soft water. DETONA'TION. See Ful3o:inating Com- pounds. DEUTOX'IDE. See Oxides. DEW POINT. The temperature at which dew begins to form, as observed b^ a ther- mometer. It varies with the humidity of the atmosphere. DEXTRINE. Syn. Dextein, Staech gum, Dexteina, Dexteinum. a soluble substance resembling gum, formed by the action of dilute acids at the boiling temperature, and by infu-