679 GALLS—GARGLE. under the joint influence of moisture and atmosplieric oxygen. According- to the re- searches of M. Antoine Laroeque, the peculiar ferment of nut-galls which operates this change also converts sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid, in the same way as yeast does; whilst beer yeast, muscular liesh, and caseous matter, change tannin into gallic acid. The similarity of the gallic and vinous fermenta- tion may hence be reasonably inferred. GALLS. Si/n. Gall-nuts, Nut-galls ; Galla (Ph. L. & D.); Gall^ (Ph. E.). “ A swelling of the small twigs of the Quercus in- fectoria, excited by the ‘ cynipe gallae tinc- torice,’ or gall-fly.’" (Ph. L.) The best galls are bluish-black, heavy, and not yet per- forated.” (Ph. L.) They are imported from Aleppo, and are known in commerce as hlacTc or blue galls (gall^ nige.l:, g. coseulad). The next quality is termed, from their colour, green galls (GALLiR TiEiDEs). Both are gathered before the insect has escaped, and are styptic and powerfully astringent. Wkite galls (gall^. ALB^) are lighter, less astringent, and inferior.! Uses, 8fc. Galls are extensively employed in the art of dyeing, and constitute one of the principal ingredients in all the shades of black, and are also employed to fix or improve several other colours. A decoction of galls, to which a little green copperas and gum arable has been added, forms common writing ink. In medicine, they are used as an astringent, in ha?morrhages and fluxes, in doses of 10 to 20 gr.; and topically, under the form of infusion or decoction, as a gargle in relaxation of the uvula; as an injection in gleet and leucorrhoea; as a lotion or fomentation in flabby ulcers, prolapsus ani, &c.; and as an ointment in piles, watery ulcers, &c. The infusion or decoction is also used as an antidote to poisoning by the alkaloids, and was formally given as a tonic in intermittents. See Gallic Acid, Ink, &c. GALL'STONE. Syn. Calculus biliosus, C. CTSTICUS BOVINUS, L. Formed in the gall- bladder of neat cattle in winter, when they are fed upon dry food. Used as a yellow pigment, and in medicine. Bose. 1 gr.; in dyspepsia and flatulency. See Calculus. GALVANTC BATTERY. See Voltaic Electeicity. GALVANISM. See Voltaic Electeicity. GALVANIZED IRON. See Ieon and Zinc- ing. GALVAN'O-PLAS'TIC. See Electeotyte. GAM'BOGE. Syn. Camboge; Cambogia, GAjMBOGIA, L. “ The gum-resin from uncer- tain species of Garcinia.” (Ph. L.) Gamboge is an active hydragogue and drastic purgative, which occasionally proves useful in ‘ torpor ’ of the ‘abdominal’ and ‘pelvic viscera’; but which is highly dangerous in an irritable or inflammatory state of the stomach or bowels, and during pregnancy. It is very apt to in- duce nausea and vomiting. In large quan- tities it is a violent poison. “ The deaths which have occurred from the use of enormous quan- tities of Morrison’s pills, are mainly ascribable to the gamboge contained in those medicines.” (Pereira.) Bose. 1 to 5 gr., made into pills or mixture, every 4 to 6 hours; in obstinate con- stipation, in dropsies, in apoplexy and like cerebral affections, and in worms (especially tape-worm), either alone or combined with other cathartics. See Compound Exteact op Co- LOCYNTH. GAN”GRENE. See Moetification. GAN'TEINE. A composition used to clean kid and other leather gloves. Prep. 1. (M. Buhan.) Curd soap (in small shavings), 1 part; water, 3 parts; mix with heat, and stir in of essence of citron, 1 part. 2. (Saponine,—Duvignau.) Soap (in pow- der), 250 parts; water, 155 parts; dissolve with heat, cool, and add, of eau de javelle, 165 parts, liquor of ammonia, 10 pares, and rub the whole to a smooth paste. Patent. A small portion of either of the above is rubbed over the glove with a piece of flannel (always in one direction), until it is sufficiently clean. See Gloves. GARAN'CINE. See Maddee Red. GAR'DENING. See Hoeticultuee. GAR'GLE. Syn. Gaegaeism, Theoat- WAsn; Gaegaeisma, Gaegaeismus, Gaega- EiSMUM, L. A liquid medicine applied to the back part of the mouth or upper part of the throat. Gargles are applied by allowing a small mouthful to run as much as possible over the affected part, by holding the head backwards, and breathing through it, by which means the liquid is agitated and its action promoted. Gargles are not to be swallowed. It often happens, however, that patients, either by accident or from negligence, do swallow a certain quantity, notwithstanding the instruc- tions given them to the contrary. Care should therefore be taken to avoid making gargles of such substances as may occasion unpleasant symptoms in small doses, though they may not, perhaps, amount to poisoning. Gargles usually have for their basis either simple water, or milk, wine, or vinegar, diluted with water, to which, in both cases, sugar, honey, or syrup, is generally added. Their other ingredients vary with the indication, but must, in all cases, be either in the liquid form, or soluble in the liquid used as the excipient. Gargles are commonly ‘ dispensed ’ in ‘ mix- ture bottles.’ The quantity used at a time, under ordinary circumstances, may be about 2-3rds of a wine-glassful. Gargle. Syn. Gaegaeisma, G. commune, G. simplex, L. Prep. 1. (St. B. Hosp.) Honey or honey of roses, I j fl. oz.; strong vinegar, 2| 11.oz.; barley water, 1 pint. 2. (St. George’s.) Oxymel, 1 fl, dr.; decoc- tion of barley, 5 fl, dr. In common sore throats, &c. The formula) of several other hospitals are similar. Gargle of Ac'etate of Ainino"nia. Syn.