WITCH MEAL—WOOL. 1351 and stomachic; and has been successfully administered in loss of appetite, dyspepsia, dropsy, chronic affections of the urinary organs, scrofula, &c. It must not he con- founded with ordinary winter-green (box BEREY, CHEQIJEE B., PAETEIDGE B., MOUNTAIN tea), which is the Gaultheria prociimbens, a plant belonging to the Ericacece, whilst the former plant belongs to a genus of the Pyro- lacece. See Decoction, Exteact, and Oils (Essential). WITCH MEAL. Syn. Vegetable sul- rnuE, Lycopodium. Tlie spores of Lycopo- dium clavatum^ or club moss. See 869. WOAD. Syn. Dyee’s woad; Pastel, Fr. The Isatis tinctoria. To prepare them for the dyer, the leaves are partially dried, and ground to a paste, which is made into balls; these are placed in heaps, and occasionally sprinkled w'ith water, to promote the fermentation; when this is finished, the woad is allowed to fall down into lumps, w^hich are afterwards reground and made into cakes for sale. On mixing the prepared woad with boiling water, and, after standing for some hours in a close vessel, adding about l-20th its w'eight of newly slaked lime, digesting in a gentle warmth, and stirring the whole together every 3 or 4 hours, a new fermentation begins; a blue froth rises to the surface, and the liquor, though it appears itself of a reddish colour, dyes loool- lens of a green, which, like the green from indigo, changes in the air to a blue. This is said to be one of the nicest processes in the art of dyeing, and does not well succeed on the small scale. Woad is now mostly in com- bination with indigo. 50 lb. of woad are reckoned equal to 1 lb. of indigo. WOLTEAM. See Tungsten. WOLFS'BAHE. See Aconite. WOOD is polished by carefully rubbing down the grain with fine glass paper, or pumice-stone, and then rubbing it, first with finely powdered pumice-stone and water, and afterwards with tripoli and linseed oil, until a proper surface is obtained. For common pur- poses, glass paper, followed by a metal burnisher, is employed. Wood is stained by the application of any of the ordinary liquid dyes employed for wool or cotton. They sink deeper into the wood when they are applied hot. When the surface is properly stained and dried, it is commonly cleaned with a rag dipped in oil of turpentine or boiled oil, after which it is either varnished or polished with bees^ wax. Musical instru- ments, articles of the toilette, &c., are usually treated in this way. Wood is preserved by any agents which dis- troy the tendency to putrefaction of the matter w’ithin its pores, or which enables it to resist the attack of insects, or renders it un- suited to the growth of minute fungi. See Dey-eot {page 534). WOOD NAPH'THA. See Spieit (Pyroxvlic). WOODY FIBEE. See Lignin. WOODY NIGHT'SHADE. See page 938. WOOL. Sxjn. Lana, L. Wool is a fine, soft, elastic variety of hair, cell ulated in its struc- ture. Its filaments are cylindrical, like those of silk; but the surface is covered with thin scales or epidermic cells. In the finer qualities, these filaments vary in thickness from to f5’j5g of an inch; and under a good microscope dis- tinctly exhibit, at intervals of about gjg of an inch, a series of serrated rings, imbricated towards each other, “ like the joints of equi- setum, or, rather, like the scaly zones of a ser- pent’s skin.” These appearances render it almost impossible to mistake wool for silk, LINEN, or COTTON. From experiments made by difterent competent authorities, it is found that wool is one of the worst conductors of heat known. This property renders woollen fabrics particularly adapted for clothing in cold, damp, and changeable climates, since it enables them to maintain the surface of the body at a proper and equable temperature. Wool sometimes, however, proves too irrita- tive for highly sensitive skins, and, moreover, disturbs the electricity of the cutaneous sur- face, on friction, even more than silk. On these accounts there are persons who find it unpleasant to wear woollen garments, of any description, next the skin; in which cases all the advantages that can be derived from their use may be obtained by wearing them outside one of linen or cotton. According to Erasmus Wilson, this method “is preferable in warm weather, since the linen absorbs the perspira- tion, while the woollen garment preserves the w^armth of the body, and prevents the incon- venience resulting from its evaporation. See Flannel. Identif. 1. By the microscope. (See aSove.) 2. Its fibres, when inflamed, shrivel up, and burn with difficulty, and evolve the peculiar and characteristic odour of hair when similarly treated, leaving a bulky charcoal; whereas cotton and linen burn rapidly, leave no char- coal, and evolve little or no odour. Silk acts in nearly the same manner as wool. 3. Nitric acid, picric acid, and gaseous chlo- rine, stain the fibres of wool and silk yellow. Dr. J. J. Pohl recommends an aqueous or alcoholic solution of picric acid as well adapted for a test.—After immersion of a small portion of the fabric or yarn for from 5 to 10 minutes in the solution, it is to be taken out, and washed in warm water. The linen and cotton in it will then appear white, but the wool, silk, or other animal fibre, will retain its yellow colour. In stuffs, cloths, flannels, &c., the mixed threads may be readily observed by means of a pocket lens, and their relative numbers may be ascertained by means of a ‘ thread counter.’ This test acts best with white, but is also applicable to many other colours. For dark colours nitric acid is pre- ferable. 4. A square inch of the fabric, or a small portion of the yarn, is boiled for a short time