TARTRALIC ACID—TEA. 1267 I he decomposition of the tartar is usually ffected in a copper boiler, and that of the jartrate of lime in a leaden cistern. This lart of the process is often performed Ly jtiere digestion for a few days, without the ipplication of heat. Leaden or stoneware essels are used as crystallizers. Good cream f tartar requires 26g of chalk and 28*5g of ■ry chloride of calcium for its perfect decora- |Osition. Dry tartrate of lime requires 75§ If oil of vilriol to liberate the whole of its artaric acid. A very slight excess of sul- huric acid may be safely, nay, advantageously, mployed. Some manufacturers bleach the oloured solution of tht) first crystals, by treat- ig it with animal charcoal; but for this pur- ose the latter substance should be first purl- ed by digesting it in hydrcchlorio acid, and fterwards by edulcorating it with water, and ixposing it to a dull red heat in a covered le^sel. The general management of this iianutacture resembles that of citric acid. To obtain a large product, care must be taken jliat the whole of the tartrate of lime be jhoroughly decomposed, a matter not always 'ffected by clumsy manipulators, who do not idapt their quantities or practice to the cir- lumstances before them. I TARTRALIC ACID. This acid is dis- \i'ngiiished from tartaric acid by saturating i-4th less base, and by forming soluble salts i'ith lime and baryta. By heat it is converted ito TARTRELIC ACID. This new add pos- |2sses only half the neutralizing power of tar- uric acid. In contact with water, the tartralic Ind tartrelic acids, and their salts, are slowly 'econverted into tartaric acid and tartrates. \lry tartralic, tartrelic, and tartaric acids are tiomeric compounds. Tartaric acid is bibasic. lee Turtaric Acid {above). TAR'TRATE. Syn. Tartras, L. The tar- rates are noticed under the names of the Respective bases and Tartaric acid. The |artrates of baryta, lime, magnesia, strontia, Ind most of the ordinary metals, are insolu- lE; the others are soluble. ( TARTREL IC ACID. See Tartaric and I’artralic Acids. I TARTRO'VINIC ACID. A compound formed f tartaric acid in combination with the de- tents of ether, analogous to oxalovinic acid. I TARTS. These may be regarded as minia- 'Ure pies, consisting oi fruit, either fresh or '.reserved, baked or spread on puff-paste. ' TAU'RIN. Obtained when purified bile is loiled for some hours with an excess ot ydrochlotic acid. By filtration, evaporation, ad dissolving the dry residuum in about 6 I'arts of boiling alcohol, nearly pure taurin jrystallizes out as the solution cools. It forms jrhite crystalline needles, which are soluble in jvater, and sparingly soluble in alcohol. It is emarkablefor containing fully 25g of sulphur. ! TAUROCHOLAL'IC ACID. SeeCHOLEic Acid. TAWING-. In the preparation of the I I'AWED LEATHER Used for gloves, housings, &c., the skins are first soaked, scraped, and hung in a warm room until they begin to exhale an ammoniacal odour, and the wool readily comes off j they are then de-haired, and soaked in water with some quicklime for several weeks, the water being clianged two or three times during that period; they are then again beamed, smoothed, and trimmed, after which they are rinsed, and resoaked in a vat of bran- and-water, where they are kept in a state of gentle fermentation for some weeks; (in this state they are called Spelts ’;) the skins are next well worked about in a warm solution of alum and salt, again fermented in bran-and- water for a short time, and are then stretched on hooks, and dried in a stove-room ; they are, lastly, again soaked in water and trodden or worked in a pail or tub containing some yolks of eggs beaten to a froth with water, alter which they are stretched and dried in a loft, and are smoothed with a warm smoothing iron. Sometimes the process is shortened by soaking the skins in the followiner mixture after the first steep with bran:—Common salt, 3^ lb.; alum, 8 lb.; boiling water, q. s. ; dissolve, add of wheaten four, 21 lb.; yolks oi 9 dozen ei,gs ; make a paste. For use, a portion is to be largely diluted with water. Chamois or shammy leather is generally prepared from either sheep- or doe-skins, which, after dressing, liming, &c., are well oiled on the grain side, then rolled into balls, and thrown into the trough of the fulling-mill, where they are beaten for 2, 3, or 4 hours. They are next aired, and again oiled Axtdi fulled, and this is repeated a third time, or oftener, as circum- stances may direct. The oiled skins are then exposed to a fermenting process, or heating in a close chamber, and are afterw ards fieed Irom redundant oil by being scoured in a weak alka- line lye. They are, histly, i insed in clean water, wrung at the peg, dried, and ‘ finished' at the stretcher-iron. Tawed leather differs from tanned LEATHER in yielding size or glue under the influence of heat and moisture, in nearly the same w'ay as the raw skins. TEA. Syn. Thea, L. The dried leaves of the Chinese tea plants {Thea Bohea and Thea viridis^. It was formerly supposed that BLACK TEAS could only be obtained from T. Bohea, and GREEN TEAS from T. viridis, but Fortune and others have proved that both sorts may be made from either species,and that the differences in colour and flavour depends chiefly on the age of the leaves and the treatment they undergo in the drying process. Another species, named Thea Assamica, furnishes Assam TEA. Pur. The only adulteration of tea which is extensively practised at the present day is mixing it with a certain portion of exhausted tea-leaves, which have been redried and curled. The collection and preparation of these occupy several hundred persons, chiefly women and