743 HYDROGEN. EiDE OF silicon) iiito water. Decomposition ensues, silica being deposited in a gelatinous state, andHYDEOFLUOSiLiciCACiD remainingin solution. This acid liquor, which is a double fluoride of silicon and hydrogen, is used as a test for barjda and potassa, with which it forms nearly insoluble precipitates. HY'DROGEN. Syn. Hydeogenium, L. An elementary body discovered by Cavendish, in 1766. It has been found existing in an un- eombined state in the gases evolved from the solfataras of Iceland. Combined with oxygen, it constitutes watee, and in this form is ex- tensively distributed through earth, air, and ocean. It is an important constituent of all organized tissues. According to M. Dumas, hydrogen is a gaseous metal, just as mercury is a liquid metal. Dr. Odling, however, holds a difl'erent opinion, and considers it a neutral substance, possessing both the ‘ basic’ proper- ties of a metal, and the ^chlorous’ properties of a gas. Prep. Hydrogen is always obtained for experimental purposes by the deoxidation of water, by one or other of the following methods:— 1. A tube of iron or porcelain gun-barrel, for instance) containing a quantity of iron turnings or scraps of iron, is fixed across a fur- nace, so that its middle portion may be made red-hot j to the one end is attached a retort or other vessel containing water, and to the other a bent tube connected with a pneumatic trough or gasometer. The tube being now heated to redness, and the water in the retort brought into a state of bi’isk ebullition, the evolved steam suffers decomposition; the oxygen being absorbed by the iron, and the hydrogen escaping into the gas receiver. 2. Sulphuric acid (‘oil of vitriol’), diluted with 6 or 8 times its bulk of water, is poured on granulated zinc (or scraps of iron), placed in a retort or gas bottlehydrogen is evolved and is collected, as before. Obs. This is the most convenient method of preparing hydrogen, and the one usually adopted in the laboratory. To ensure the gas being quite pure, distilled zinc is employed, and the gas is passed, first through a concen- trated solution of pure potassa, then through a solution of nitrate of silver, and, lastly, through strong oil of vitriol or over fragments of chloride of calcium. When hydrogen is prepared from crude zinc, it has a slight smell’; and when from iron, its odour is often strong and disagreeable. Prop. Gaseous; colourless; tasteless; odour- less (wlien pure); combustible; sp. gr. •06935, being 16 times lighter than oxygen gas, and 14’4 times lighter than atmospheric air. 100 cubic inches, at 60° Fahr. and 30 inches of the barometer, weigh 2‘137l (say 2-14) gr.; 1 gr. occupies 46‘6 inches. It is very readily inflamed, even by a red-hot wire. It burns > Tlic gas bottle is described ill tlic foot-note on page 398, and tigiu-cd on page 310. with a pale-blue, scarcely visible, flame. Mixed with atmospheric air or oxygen, it explodes with extreme violence on the approach of flame, or sudden compression. One measure of hydrogen and 5 of atmospheric air, and 2 of hydrogen and 1 of oxygen, are the propor- tions that explode with the greatest violence. The combination of hydrogen and oxygen, when mixed, is brought about by the heat of a red-hot solid or a flame, by the electric spark, and by the presence of spongy platinum, the black powder of platinum, clean platinum foil, and some other substances. A jet of hy- drogen burnt in oxygen gas, or a jet of these gases (mixed) burnt in the air, with proper precautions, produces a most intense heat. Water absorbs about 2g by volume of hydrogen. Tests. It is recognised by—its combusti- bility;—the pale colour of its flame;—produc- ing water only when burnt in air or oxygen;— extinguishing the flame of other bodies; and—exploding when mixed with half its volume of oxygen, and fired. Uses, 8^c. Pure and uncombined hydrogen is not employed in the arts. Inhalations of this gas have, however, been occasionally used in medicine. Dr. Beddoes recommended them in phthisis. In combination, the uses of hy- drogen are almost numberless. Combined with oxygen, it forms watee ; with ehlorine, hy- DEOCHLOEic ACID ; with fluorine, hydeoflxj- OEIC ACID; with cyanogen, peussic acid; with carbon, innumerable hydeocaebons ; with nitrogen, AMMONIA; with sulphur, SULPHr- eetted hydeogen—in fact, an enumeration of the valuable compounds which it enters into would occupy many pages of this work. From its extreme lightness, it has been used to fill balloons, and its carburet (coal-gas) is now commonly employed for this purpose. On its property of inflaming in contact with spongy platinum is arranged the popular little instru- ment for the production of instantaneous light (Dobeeeinee’s lamp) sold by the philosophical instrument makers. The chemist avails him- self of the great heat developed by its com- bustion in oxygen in the formation of the OXYHYDEOGEN BLOW-PIPE. Indeed, the po- sition occupied and the offices performed by hydrogen in the material world, as far as our perceptions permit us to judge, appear all but infinite. Some of the compounds of hydrogen are noticed below; the others under their re- spective names. Antimo"niuretted Hydrogen. Syn. Anti- MONETTED DYDEOGEN, HydEIDE OF ANTIMONY, Stibamine ; Hydeogenium antimoniatum, L. A gaseous compound of antimony and hydrogen, prepared by dissolving an alloy of antimony with a large excess of zinc in hy- drochloric or dilute sulphuric acid. It has never been obtained pure, a variable propor- tion of free hydrogen being always present. It burns with a bluish-white flame, giving rise to dense fumes of teroxide of antimony,