COLLODION. 467 and water, 200 parts. Lastly, it is plunged again into simple water, and dried at a tem- perature of 77° to 86° Fahr. 4. Gun cotton and rectified alcohol, of each, 1 part; rectified ether, 19 parts; proceed as before. 5. (Parrish.) Thoroughly saturate clean carded cotton, ^ oz., with fuming nitric acid and sulphuric acid, of each, 4 fl. oz., previously ’ mixed and allowed to become cool; macerate for 12 hours; wash the cotton in a large quantity of water; then free it from the water by successive washings in alcohol, and dissolve in ether, 3 pints, i Ohs. For success in the manufacture of I collodion, it is absolutely necessary to avoid the presence of water. The ordinary com- mercial oil of vitriol, sp. gr. 1-84, may be used. Professor Procter, of Philadelphia, gives pre- ; ference to the process with the mixed acids (No. 5), and directs that the cotton should be allowed to macerate for four days. In drying i the cotton great care should be taken to pre- vent an explosion. [/ses, Sf'c. In surgery, plain collodion is em- ployed as a dressing for wounds, and as a pro- tection to abraded surfaces. On drying, it unites the former closely, and preserves the latter from the action of the air. It is imper- vious to water, and being transparent, it ad- ; mits of the progress of the wound being in- spected when necessary. Such is its adhesive i power, that a piece of cloth cemented with it ! to the dry palm of the hand will support a weight of 25 to 30 lb. The parts to which it is applied should be freed from moisture. See ; CoLOUEED, Elastic, Medicated and Vesi- ; GATING Collodions {below). I Blis'tering Collodion. See Vesicating Col- ‘ LODION. Col'oured Collodion. Syn. Collodium tinc- : TUM, L. Prep. (Cutan. Hosp.) Collodion, 2 j oz.; palm oil, 1 dr.; alkanet root, q.s. to I colour (say 15 gr.); digest and decant the clear. Colour bears a greater resemblance to the skin than that of common collodion, whilst it is more flexible; but it is weaker I than the latter. I Elas'tic Collodion. Prep. 1. (Lauras.) Heat I together Venice turpentine, 2 parts; castor oil, I 2 parts; and white wax, 2 parts; add sul- \phuric ether, 6 parts; and mix all with the I product of No. 3 {above), that is, to the col- ! lodion formed with 8 parts of prepared cotton, ' 125 ether, and 8 alcohol. 2. (C. S. Hand.) Dissolve prepared cotton (No. 5, above), 2 dr., in sulphuric ether, 5 fl. oz.; then add, Venice turpentine, 2 dr., and com- plete the solution by slight agitation. Obs. The collodion made by either of the above processes, when applied to the skin, forms a transparent pellicle, more pliable and more difficult to remove than that of ordinary • collodion. Medicated Collodion. It has been proposed • to medicate collodion in several ways, but the practice has not found much favour with the medical profession. The following prepara- tions have been described:— Aconite Collodion. From aconite root, by a similar formula to that of belladonna c. {below). Belladonna Collodion. Prep. Macerate select belladonna leaves, powdered, 8 oz., in ether, 12 fl. oz., with alcohol (95§), 4 fl. oz., for six hours. Pack in a percolator, and pour on alcohol till a pint of tincture is obtained; in this dissolve pyroxyline (prepared cotton), 1 dr., and Canada balsam, \ oz. Used as a substitute for belladonna plastee. Canthaeidine Collodion. See Vesicat- ing Collodion. Iodine Collodion. Prep. Dissolve iodine and Canada balsam, of each, ^ oz., in collodion, 1 pint. Used as a substitute for iodine oint- ment. Photographic Collodion. There are so many methods adopted for preparing photo- graphic collodion, that a large volume might be tilled with notices of them. We will merely give Mr. Hardwich’s forms, which are much esteemed by practical photographers. The preparation of a sensitive collodion, whether positive or negative, includes three distinct operations, namely, the formation of the pyroxyline or gun cotton, the conversion of this into plain collodion, and the flnal process of iodizing the collodion. 1. Positive Collodion. (Hardwich.) To form the PYEOXYLINE :—Take sulphuric acid, sp. gr. 1*845, at 60° Fahr., 12 fl. oz.; nitric acid, sp. gr. 1*45, at 60°, 12 fl. oz.; water, 3| fl. oz.; mix, and allow the temperature to fall to 140°; then immerse cotton, 300 grains. (If the cotton is found to gelatinize or dissolve in the acid mixture, the quantity of water is too great, and may be reduced to 3 fl. oz.) The cotton should be well pulled out in pieces, weighing about 30 grains each; and should be left in the acid for about 8 minutes, the vessel being covered over. It is taken out with a glass spatula, squeezed to remove acid, washed for at least 24 hours by a stream of water, then squeezed in a cloth, and pulled out to dry. To form the plain collodion:—Shake up the dry pyroxyline, 48 grains, with alcohol, sp. gr. *805, 1^ fl. oz., and then add ether, sp. gr. *725, 4^ fl. oz. The solution should be allowed to rest for a week or ten days, when the clear fluid should be decanted from the sediment. To prepare the iodizing solction : —Take of iodide of ammonium, 1^ dr.; iodide of cadmium, 1^ dr.; bromide of ammonium, 40 grains; powder, and dissolve in alcohol, sp. gr. *805 to *816, 10 fl. oz. The collodion is iodized by adding the solution to it in the proportion of 1 part solution to 3 parts col- lodion. The iodized collodion should be kept for at least six weeks before using. If re- quired for immediate use, add a few drops of an alcoholic solution of iodine, formed by dis- solving 5 grains of iodine in 1 fl. oz. of alcohoh