829 LEAVEN—LEECH. I the varnish is then applied to the grain side , for the former, and the flesh side of the skin I for the latter, which is previously stretched j out tight on a board to receive it. The whole i is, lastly, submitted to a gentle stove-heat to I harden the varnish; and the process is re- ^ peated, if necessary. I Uses, 8fc. These are well known, and are all I hut universal. The leather manufacture of 1 Great Britain is equal in importance and utility i to any other department of our industry, and inferior in point of value and extent only to I those of cotton, wool, and iron. “ If we look I abroad on the instruments of husbandry, on I the implements used in most of the mechanic I trades, on the structure of a multitude of engines and machines; or if we contemplate at j home the necessary parts of our clothing— I breeches, shoes, boots, gloves—or the furni- ' ture of our houses, the books on our shelves, ' the harness of our horses, or even the sub- ■ stance of our carriages; what do we see but I instances of human industry exerted upon leather ? What an aptitude has this single material in a variety of circumstances for the : relief of our necessities, and supplying conve- j niences in every state and stage of life? Without it, or even without it in the plenty ' we have it, to what difficulties should we be exposed?” (Dr. Campbell.) Leather is a kind I of natural felt, but of much closer and firmer [ texture than that of artificial origin. The I thinner and softer kinds of leather are some- times used as body-clothing; but its special and proper purpose is the manufacture of ' coverings for the feet, to protect them from j cold and wet.” (Eras. Wilson.) See Japan- I KING, Varnish, &c. JLEAV'EN. Dough which has become sour or run into a state of incipient putrefaction. When a small quantity of it is added to recent I dough, it excites fermentation, but is apt to produce a disagreeable taste and odour in the bread. It is now superseded by yeast. Both these substances are used in the same way. LEAVES (Medicated). Syn. Eolia medi- I CATA, L. On the Continent several pre- parations of this kind are in use. In many cases the leaves of tobacco deprived of nicotine, by soaking them in water, are dried, and then i moistened or steeped in a tincture or infusion of the medicinal substance. In this way bel- ladonna, camphor, and henbane, are often admi- nistered. Cruveillier recommends opiated belladonna leaves for smoking in troublesome coughs, phthisis, spasmodic asthmas, &c., to be prepared as follows :—Belladonna leaves, 1 oz., are steeped in an infusion of opium, 10 gr., in water, 1 fl. oz. (or less), and are then care- fully dried in the shade. See Cigars (in phar- macy), and Vegetable Substances. LECANOR'IC ACID. See Orsellinic Acid. LEECH. Syn. Hirudo (Ph. L. & D.), L. The officinal leech of the Pharmacopoeias is the Sanguisuga medicinalis {^Hirudo medi- cinalis—Cuv.), familiarly known as the * old English’ or ‘ speckled leech.* It is also occa- sionally called the ‘ Hamburg gray* or * Rus- sian leech,* from being imported from those parts. Its characteristics are—Back, green- ish or olive-green, sometimes almost black or intense brown, with 6 rusty-red or yellowish longitudinal stripes, which are mostly spotted with black.—Belly, dirty yellow or light olive- green, spotted more or less with black. The spots are very variable in size and number; in some cases few, in others so numerous as to form the prevailing tint of the belly. This variety, which is the most valuable of the commercial leeches, is chiefiy imported from Hamburg. Another variety of leech, the Sanguisuga officinalis, familiarly known as the ‘ Hamburg* or ‘ French green leech,* are imported from Bordeaux, Lisbon, and Hamburg. Its charac- teristics are—Back, brownish olive-green, with 6 reddish or rusty-yellow longitudinal bands. —Belly, light dirty pea-green, or yellowish- green, free from spots, but exhibiting two lateral stripes. This leech is vastly inferior to the preceding variety, and some of those im- ported from France and Portugal are abso- lutely useless, from their indisposition to bite, arising from the fraud practised by the col- lectors and dealers, of gorging them with blood to improve their appearance before sending them to market. The above are the species of leech commonly employed in medi- cine in this country, but many others are no- ticed by writers on the subject. Leeches are best preserved in water ob- tained from a pond, and occasionally changed; when kept in spring water, they soon die. The introduction of a hand to which an ill-flavoured medicine or odour adheres into the water in which they are kept, is often sufficient to poison them. The application of saline matter to the skin of leeches, even in very small quantities, immediately occasions the expulsion of the contents of the stomach; hence a few grains of common salt are frequently sprinkled over them, to make them disgorge the blood which they have swallowed. The frequent changing of the water in which leeches are kept is inju- dicious. Once a month in winter, and once a week in summer, is deemed sufficiently often by the large dealers, unless the water becomes discoloured or bloody, when it should be changed every day, or every other day. When clean pond water cannot be obtained, clean rain water that has been weU exposed to the air should alone be employed. Mr. J. R. Kenworthy recommends placing in the water a few balls or irregular lumps of pure clay, about 2^ inches in diameter; a method which we can recommend as both simple and suc- cessful. The plan adopted by M. Fee is as follows:—Place 7 inches of a mixture of moss, turf, and charcoal, in a marble or stone trough, over which sprinkle some small pebbles. At one end of the trough, and about half way up.