11 ACETAEIOUS—ACETIC ACID. is acetate of ammonia less two equlv. of water. See Amide. ACETA"mOUS (-tare'-e-iis). Used for salads (as plants); relating to salads (which see). AC'ETATE (as'-; acetate, as marked by Brande, is unusual). Syn. Ace'tas, L. ; Ace- tate, Fr.; Essigsauee salze, Ger. In chem- istry, a salt containing acetic acid. Prep, That of the commeecial acetates, and of many others, is noticed under the re- spective ‘ hases.^ In general, they may all he formed by direct solution of the carbonate, hydrate, ov oxide of the base, vatlae dilute acid ; or from a solution of an acetate and of a salt of the base, by double decomposition. In either case, the resulting solution must he carefully evaporated by a gentle heat, and, where pos- sible, crystallised. Prop., S(c. All the neutral acetates, except those of molybdenum and tungsten, are more or less soluble in water, several so much so as to be uncrystallizable ; many dissolve in alcohol; they suffer decomposition at a dull red heat, and by distillation, at that temperature, yield ACETONE and water, or acetone and acetic ACID, and leave a carbonaceous residuum; at a full red-heat, those of the alkalies and alkaline earths are converted into carbonates, whilst of those of the metallic bases, many leave behind the pure metal, and others its oxide. The aqueous solutions of the alkaline acetates soon turn mouldy and suffer decom- position. No more of them should, therefore, be dissolved at once, than is required for im- mediate use. Char., tests, 8fc. The acetates are known —1. By evolving fumes of acetic acid on the addition of strong sulphuric acid:—2. By evolving fumes of acetic ether (known by its peculiar and agreeable odour) when heated with a mixture of about equal parts of con- centrated sulphuric acid and alcohol:—3. By the distillate, obtained by the distillation of the substance along with dilute sulphuric acid, exhibiting an alkaline reaction after digestion with an excess of oxide of lead, owing to the formation of basic acetate of lead. A charac- teristic test; no other volatile organic acid doing so:—4. By striking a deep red-colour with the sesqui-salts of iron, and further, by the resulting red liquid becoming yellow on the addition of hydrochloric acid (showing ‘sesqui-acetate’ and not ‘sulphocyanide of iron’ to be present), and (if it contains an excess of acetate) colourless upon ebullition:—5. By giving white, lamellar, and pearly or crystal- line precipitates with nitrate of silver and protonitrate of mercury; that from the first being soluble in ammonia water, and that from the latter in excess of the precipitant; and both dissolving freely in hot water, but sepa- rating again upon its cooling, in the form of very fine crystals :—6. By mixing the suspect- ed substance with a little arsenious acid, and submitting the mixture to dry distillation, when Cadet’s * fuming liquor ’ {alkarsine), the horrible stench of which cannot be mistaken for anything else, will be driven over. This is a very delicate test. See Acetic Acid, Acetous Acid, &c. AC'ETATED (as'-). In chemistry phar- macy, combined or impregnated with acetic acid or vinegar. ACE'TETYLE (a-se'-te-til). A substance formed by the action of pentachloride of phos- phorus on acetate of soda. See Acids (Organic). ACE'TIC {acet'ic, as marked by Mayne and Smart, is less usual). Syn. Ace'ticus, L.; Acetique, Fr. Of or relating to vinegar; made with acetic acid, as perfumes, ^c. (See below.) ACETIC ACID. Syn. Acetyl'ic acid ; Pyeolig'neous acid {pure); Ace'tous A.f; Acid oe vinegae f; Essence of v.f; Spieit op v.f; Acidum ace'ticum, L. ; Acide acetique Fr.; Acido acetico. It.; Essigsauee, Ger.; Azynzuue, Dut.; Eisel, Sax. When containing only one atom of chemically combined water, and thus strong enough to crystallize on cooling, it is distin- guished as—Hy'deated acetic acid, Mono- hy'deated a.a., Hy'deate op a.a., Gla'cial a. A. ; Hydeated acetyl'ic a., Monohydeated A. A., Hydeate op a.a. ; Ace'tum glacia'le, Acidum ace'ticum g., L.; Radical vine- GAEf; &c. The sour principle of vinegar. Hist. Although vinegar appears to have been known from the most remote period of antiquity, the preparation of pure concen- trated acetic acid, is a discovery of compara- tively modern date. The alchemists obtained it by the dry distillation of verdigris. Geber first purified common vinegar by distillation. Stahl, at the commencement of the eigh- teenth century, obtained strong acetic acid from the acetates by the action of sul- phuric acid; and he, and Westendorff, were the first who procured it in a state of purity. It was not until 1793, that Lowitz obtained an acid sufficiently concentrated to deposit crystals of the pure hydrate on refrigeration. Subsequently, Dr. J. Davy noticed its presence among the products resulting from the action of spongy platinum on the vapour of alcohol; and was followed by Dobereiner, who studied and explained this action, and reduced the operation to a practical form. Still more recently, Gerhardt obtained the compound said to be anhydrous acetic acid. Hat. Hist. Acetic acid is peculiar to the or- ganic kingdom. It exists in the free state, but more generally, combined with potassa, lime, and ammonia, in the juices of many vegetables, if not in all of them. It is present, in greater or less quantity, in all fermented liquors, owing to the oxygenation of their alcohol; and it is one of the common products of the destructive distillation of wood and other organic matter. It has been detected in several animal fluids, as the milk, urine, and perspiration; and is frequently generated by a morbid process in the stomachs of dys-