598 ETHER. unaltered. It also acidifies by age, whilst pure nitrous ether remains neutral. They are both very inflammable, and burn with a white flame. Ordinary nitrous ether dissolves in about 48 parts of water, and mixes in all propor- tions with alcohol and sulphuric ether. (Liebig.) Nitrous ether is refrigerant, diaphoretic, and diuretic, but is seldom employed alone, though, when largely diluted with alcohol (sweet spirits oe nitre, spirit op nitric ether), it is a common remedy in several diseases. It is also used to flavour malt spirit, in imitation of brandy (British brandy), although for this purpose it is vastly in- ferior to acetic ether. See Spirits (Medicinal). (Enan'thic Ether. Syn. Pelargonic ether, (Enanthate op oxide op ethyl. Prep. 1. The oil obtained towards the end of the distil- lation of fermented liquors, especially wines, consists, in a great measure, of the crude ether. It is purified by agitation with a weak solution of carbonate of potassa, freed from water by a few fragments of chloride of calcium, and then re-distilled. 2. By dissolving cenanthic acid in strong alcohol, and passing a current of hydrochloric acid through the solution. Prop., S(c. (Enanthic ether is colourless; lighter than water; boils at about 500° Fahr.; and has a powerful intoxicating vinous odour, resembling that of an empty wine cask or bottle that has been exposed to the air for some time. It is very sparingly soluble in water, but freely soluble in alcohol. Its sp. gr. is *862. As obtained by distillation, it is united with a little cenanthic acid. 2200 imperial gallons of wine (about 35 hogsheads) only yielded 2^ lb. of the mixed oil. (Liebig and Pelouze.) Oxal'ic Ether. Syn. Oxalate op oxide op ETHYL j /Ether oxalicus, L. Prep. 1. Alco- hol and dehydrated oxalic acid, equal parts; are digested together in a glass flask fur- nished with a very long glass tube of small bore, so that the spirit, volatilized by the heat, may be condensed, and flow back into the flask. After 6 or 8 hours the process is generally complete, and the liquid contains merely a trace of free acid, from which it may be separated. 2. (Ettling.) A mixture of binoxalate of potassa and alcohol of 90§, of each, 4 parts, and oil of vitriol, 5 parts, are mixed in a glass retort, and distilled with a quick Are nearly to dryness; as soon as the product becomes turbid when mixed with water, the receiver is changed, and the distillate collected; the latter is then agitated with 4 or 5 times its weight of water, and the agitation is repeated with fresh water until the ether becomes neutral to test paper ; it is then rectified in a dry retort that it will about fgths fill, and as soon as the boiling proceeds smoothly, instead of by jerks, the receiver is changed; the remaining product is PURE oxalic ether. Prop., 8fc. A colourless, oily liquid, shghtly heavier than water, boiling at 363° Fahr., only slightly soluble in water, and having an aromatic smell. Alkalies decompose it. Sp. gr. 1-09. Oxam'ic Ether. See Oxamethane. Pelargon'ic Ether, See (Enanthic Ether (above). Perchlo"ric Ether. Syn. Perchlorate of OXIDE OP ethyl ; /Ether perchloricus, L. Prep. (Hare and Boye.) Sulphovinate of baryta and perchlorate of baryta, in equivalent pro- portions, are carefully triturated together, and the powder placed in a retort connected with a receiver surrounded with ice; heat is then applied by means of an oil bath, and gradually raised from 300° to 340° Fahr. To prevent an explosion, the ether should be received into a little absolute alcohol, about twice the weight of the sulphovinate employed. Not more than 1 dr. to dr. of the sulphovinate should ever be distilled at a time, and even then the ope- rator should be well protected with a mask and gloves. Prop,, S(c. It is heavier than water, and explodes by heat, friction, and percussion, and often without any assignable cause. Its ex- plosive power appears to be fully equal to that of the chloride or iodide of nitrogen ; but this property is destroyed by solution in alcohol, as above. The addition of an equal volume of water to the latter solution immediately sepa- rates the ether, which sinks to the bottom of the mixed liquids. Phosphor'ic Ether. Syn. Tribasic phos- phate OP OXIDE OP ETHYL ; ^EtHER PHOS- PHORICIJS, L. An aromatic, limpid liquid, obtained by heatingphosphovinate.of lead to a temperature ranging between 355° and 375° Fahr. It is lighter than water, and boils at , 288-5° Fahr. Silic'ic Ether. Syn. Silicate op oxide oih" ETHYL; /Ether silichs, L. Prep. From anhydrous alcohol and chloride of silicon, as boracic ether. It is a colourless, aromatic, ethereal liquid, boiling at 329° Fahr. Water resolves it into alcohol and silicic acid. By exposure to moist air, it is transformed into hydrate of silica, which is translucent, and hard enough to scratch glass. Sulphu'ric Ether. This is now one of the common names, and was formerly the pharma- copceial name of ether (oxide op ethyl), already noticed. Recently, however, a true sulphuric ether (sulphate op oxide of ethyl) has been obtained. Prep. The vapour of pure anhydrous sul- phuric acid is passed (with the usual precau- tions) into perfectly anhydrous ether; the re- sulting syrupy liquid is agitated with a of 4 volumes of water, and 1 volume of eth&r, and after repose the upper stratum, which is an ethereal solution of the true sulphuric ether, is decanted, and the oxide of ethyl (ether) volatilized by a very gentle heat. The colour- less liquid forming the residuum is the true