452 CINCHONICINE—CINCHONINE. from 1 lb. of this bark by the aid of sulphuric acid.’* (Ph. L.) Piir., ^c. The officinal species of cinchona bark are frequently imported mixed with other kinds, that contain less of the febrifuge principle. The most common adulteration is, however, the admixture of the same drug that has been exhausted of its active portions in the manufacture of sulphate of quinine, cincho- nine, and tincture, infusion, decoction, and extract of bark. This is especially practised on the powder on account of the fraud being less easily detected when the drug is in the pulverulent state. The following substances have been used by fraudulent dealers either as SUBSTITUTES for cinchona bark, or to EEDUCE THE PEICE of the ground bark:—roots of bistort, Calamus aromaticus, avens, water- avens, Geum montanum, and tormentil; oak bark, that of several kinds of willow, horse- chesnut, ash, and the sloe bush; mahogany sawdust, the dried herbs of yellow loosestrife, bugle, water-horehound, and self-heal; the barks of Pinknea pubescens, Unnona febrifuga, Swietenia febrifuga, Cedrela tuna. Magnolia glauca, M. acuminata, M. tripetala, Ochras sapota, Rubus irivialis, and R. villosus; and, in fact, any trash that will possibly produce a powder at all resembling that of bark, or that can be made so by grinding and the addition of colouring. Estim., Tests. The only certain method of ascertaining the quality of cinchona bark, and of detecting fradulent admixture, is by an assay for the alkaloid. See Quinometey. The tannic acid which exists in every species of cinchona bark, may be recognised by its precipitating the sesquichloride of iron of a green colour, gelatine of a whitish colour, and a solution of tartar emetic of a dirty white. Uses, ^c. All the cinchona barks are tonic and febrifuge, and may be given in powder, from 20 gr. to 60 gr., or more, if the stomach will bear it, every two to four hours, in agues or intermittent fevers, gangrene, &c.; and in infusion or decoction, as a tonic in debility, dyspepsia, &c. Since the introduction of the cinchona alkaloids, the employment of bark in substance has considerably lessened. See Cinchonine, Quinine, Decoction, Infusion, Exteact, Tinctuee, &c. Cinchona Red. The insoluble rkl colouring matter of cinchona bark. It is an inodorous, reddish-brown substance, nearly insoluble in cold water, more soluble in hot water, and readily soluble in alcohol, ether, and alkaline lyes ; acids also favour its solution. CINCHO'NICINE. An alkaloid obtained by the action of heat upon either Cinchonine or Cinchonidine. CINCKO'NIDINE. An alkaloid isomeric with cinchonine, from which it differs in several minor properties, particularly in its action upon polarized light. It deflects the plane of polarization towards the left. It was disco- vered by M. Pasteur in the quinidine of com- merce. The sulphate of cinchonidine has recently been introduced as a medicinal agent. CINCHO'NIC ACID. See Kinic Acid. CIN'CHONINE. Syn. Cincho'nia, Cin- CHONi'na, L. One of the cinchona alkaloids, ranking next in importance to quinine. It exists in largest quantity in the pale baek, and is extracted from it as quinine is from the yellow cinchona bark. Prep. 1. Add liquor of ammonia to a di- lute solution of hydrochlorate or sulphate of cinchonine, as long as a precipitate falls ; wash this precipitate with cold water, then digest it in ether ; lastly, dissolve it in alcohol, and crystallize. The crystals are free from quinine, and chemically pure. 2. (Commercial.)—a. From the mother- liquors from which sulphate of quinine has been obtained. The salt of quinine being the least soluble of the two, crystallizes out of the liquor first, and after its separation, the liquid is operated for fresh crystals, which consist of the cinchonine salt; from these the alkaloid is obtained as above, the other part of the pro- cess ,being omitted. Contains a little quinine and quinoidine. b. (Direct.) Bruised pale bark, 1 lb., is boiled in water, 1 gall., to which sulphuric acid, ^ fl. oz. has been previously added; the decoction is repeated with about half the quantity of liquid, and so on till all the soluble matter of the bark is extracted. The decoc- tions are then mixed together, and strained, and powdered slaked lime is added, in a pro- portion somewhat greater than necessary to saturate the acid; the precipitate that ensues is collected, dried, and boiled for some minutes in strong alcohol, which is then decanted off' while still hot, and fresh portions successively added, and the operation repeated until it ceases to act on the residuum, which is merely sulphate of lime. The different alcoholic solutions are then put into a retort or still, and considerably evaporated, during which, and especially on cooling, acicidar crystals of cinchonine are deposited. The whole is now collected, and the crystals, if yellow or disco- loured, again dissolved in boiling alcohol, and by recrystallization obtained colourless. Prop., These are, for the most part, similar to those of quinine; but it is said to be less powerfully febrifuge, and less soluble in water and alcohol, than that alkaloid. It readily separates from its hot alcoholic so- lution as it cools, under the form of small, colourless, and beautifully brilliant transpa- rent, four-sided prisms, it is nearly insoluble in water; requiring 2.500 parts of cold and 1500 of boiling water; boiling water takes up only the 2|ggth part; rectified spirit dissolves only about 3g,—strong alcohol more. Char., Tests. Cinchonine is distinguished from quinine by—1. The insolubility of itself and salts in ether;—2. By the form of its crystals;—3. By its solution in alcohol or acidulated water, possessing the property of