592 ETHER. to that of the liquid which distils over. By careful luanipulation the whole of the alcohol which enters the retort passes over as ether and water, and this decomposition proceeds for some time, and would continue for an un- limited period, did not the sulphuric acid ulti- mately become too weak to form ether, from the gradual absorption of the superfluous water contained in the alcohol. Were it convenient or practicable to use absolute alcohol, a given weight of sulphuric acid, of the proper strength, would maintain the power of producing ether for an indefinite period. In practice, the quantity of alcohol that may thus be etherified is twice or thrice as much as by the common process, while neither sulphurous acid, sulpho- vinic acid, nor sweet oil of wine, is generated, and the residual liquid of the distillation con- tinues limpid, and has only a pale-brown colour. (Gieger.) 7. (Liebig.) Alcohol of 90g, 5 parts are mixed with oil of vitriol, 9 parts, in a vessel of copper or iron, immersed in cold water; the mixture is next introduced into a still or retort, and raised to a state of ebullition as rapidly as possible, as before. A fresh quan- tity of alcohol, equal in bulk to the liquid distilled over, is then added to the liquid in the still, and distillation again had recourse to. As much concentrated alcoholic solution of po- tassa as will give it a perceptible alkaline reaction is next added to distilled liquor, which is then rectified by the heat of a water bath, as long as the ether which distils over has the sp. gr. *720 to *725 at 80° Fahr. Instead of the potassa, a little milk of lime may be used, along with its own bulk of water. By allowing the product to stand for some days over chloride of calcium or quicklime, and again rectifying it along with one of these substances, perfectly pure ether may be ob- tained. Obs. The mixture of alcohol with sulphuric acid requires some caution. It is best done by introducing the alcohol into a suitable vessel, and imparting to it a rapid whirling motion, by which a considerable conical cavity is formed in the centre, and into which the acid may be gradually poured with perfect safety. The mixed fluids should be brought to a state of rapid ebullition, as quickly as possible, as without this precaution much of the alcohol distils over before the liquor acquires the pro- per temperature for ‘etherification.’ On the small scale, a tubulated retort, connected with a Liebig's condensing tube, and hvo globular receivers surrounded with a freezing mixture, or ice-cold water, may be employed as the distillatory apparatus. The second receiver should be connected with the first one by means of a bent glass tube, reaching nearly to the bottom of the former; and the whole of the joints should be securely luted, as soon as the expanded air has been allowed to escape. We have employed the following convenient little apparatus for the pi’eparation of small quantities of ether, and it will be found very suitable for the distillation of most other highly volatile liquids, and particularly for boiling mixtures of alcohol and organic acids. By connecting the neck of a flask or digester con- taining volatile fluids with the lower instead of the u]}per end of the refrigerator, ebullition may be carried on without loss, as the vapour will be condensed, and run back into the vessel from which it has distilled. a. Condenser tube. h, c. Glass tube. d. Funnel by wbicb cold water nms in from the water bottle h. e. Pipe by which water escapes througb / into the bottle (/. i. Retort. k. Adapter, connecting tlie retort with the condenser. J. Ada])ter, connecting tbe condenser with the bottles t, t. A. Wooden tresscl, with movable arms n, o, for sup- porting and adjusting the heights of tlie condenser. For the rectification of ether, a water bath j is employed along with the above simple refri- ^ gerator, and the receivers surrounded by ice' or a freezing mixture. B. Wooden stool for supporting the water bottle. q. Furnace. r. Support for the furnace. 2). Gutter for carrying off water that overflows (lie funnel d, and preventing its escape along the pipe c. s. Leg of syphon connected with bottle containing alcohol. f, t. Glass globes, placed in the basins r, r, and sur- rounded w'lih iionuded ice or ice-cold tecUer. 10. Safety tube, containing a little mercury at x. Chem. Comp., 8fc. Until quite recently, ether was generally regarded as the oxide of ETHYL, and alcohol as the hydrate of thisj base. This view was borne out by analysis, |