FOXING—FRENCH BERRIES. 665 \ foxglove are officinal in our pharmacopoeias. I They must he gathered before the terminal j llovvers have expanded. “ The petiole and j midrib of the leaf being cut o(f, dry the ! lamina.” (Ph. L.) The seeds (digitalis se- i mina), which were ordered, as well as the i leaves, in former pharmacopoeias, are said to he in many points preferable to them. When good, the leaves are of a dull-green colour, and possess a feeble narcotic odour, and a hitter, I unpleasant taste. Both the dried leaves and ! the powder should be preserved in corked bottles covered with dark-coloured paper, or I in well-closed tin canisters, and kept in a dark I cupboard; and the stock should be renewed j yearly, as age considerably diminishes the me- ! dicinal activity of digitalis. Action, uses, S^c. Foxglove is diuretic, sedative, I and antispasmodic, and exerts a specific action I over the cerehro-spinal system, promoting the I functions of the absorbents, and reducing the force of the circulation in a remarkable manner. I It is administered in fevers and inflammations, to reduce the frequency of the pulse, and to I allay excessive vascular e.xcitement; in dropsy ; (unless the habit is full and pulse tight and 1 cordy), as a diuretic, either alone, or combined j with squills, calomel, salines, or bitters; in in- 1 ternal hcernorrhages, as a sedative, when the ] pulse is full, hard, and throbbing; in diseases I of the heart and great vessels, and in phthisis, 1 to reduce the force and velocity of the circu- I lation; in epilepsy and insanity, to repress vas- ' cular excitement; and in spasmodic asthma, ■ scrofula, and several other diseases, with one or other of the above intentions. The greatest caution is required in the use of foxglove, as its effects accumulate in the I system, and the unwary practitioner is occa- sionally surprised at the sudden demise of i his patient, even after he has left off the use I of this drug. Dose. ^ gr. to 1|- gr., in powder, [every 6 hours. See Extract, Ineusion, ! Tincture, &c. 1 FOX'ING. See Malt Liquors. I FRACT'URE. Syn. Fractura, L. The j breaking or disrupture of a bone. When the I bone is merely divided into two parts, it is j called a simple fracture ; when the integu- ments are also lacerated, a compound frac- ture ; and when the bone is splintered, a comminuted fracture. FRANKINCENSE. Syn. Common frank- | I INCENSE ; Thus (Ph. L.), L. The turpentine { j which exudes from the hark of Abies excelsa I (Norway spruce fir) and Pinus palustris (pitch j jor swamp pine), hardened by the air. (Ph. L.) I The gum-resin OLIBANUM, which is the pro- I duce of the Boswellia Ihurifera, is the ‘ ODOR- I ous frankincense’ of commerce. ! Prepared Frankincense. Syn. Thus pr.e- [PAR.V.TUM (Ph. L.), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Frank- I incense, 1 lb.; water, q. s. to cover it; boil ( : until the resin is melted, and strain through a I hair sieve; when the ^\ hole has cooled, pour 1 I off the water, and keep the frankincense for ' use. Resembles common resin in its general properties. FRAX'ININ. Syn. Fraxin ; Fraxina, L. A peculiar bitter, neutral, and crystallizable substance, soluble in boiling v/ater, extracted from the bark of Fraxinus excelsior, or common ash. It is febrifuge. FREC'KLES. These are round or oval- shaped yellowish spots, similar to stains, de- veloped on the skin. There are two varie- ties—Freckles, or suaimer freckles, re- sulting from the action of the sun and heat during the summer season, and disappearing with the hot weather or exposure; and—Cold FRECKLES, whicli occur at all times of the year. The former are chiefly confined to per- sons of fair complexion, whilst the latter attack persons of all complexions indifferently, and sometimes assume a lively yellow or greenish colour. Treatment. Common freckles may gene- rally be removed by the frequent application of dilute spirits, acids, or alkaline solutions; the last two just strong enough to prick the tongue. Cold freckles commonly occur from disordered health, or some general disturb- ance of the system, to which attention should be chiefly directed. In both varieties the solution of bichloride of mercury (Ph. L.), or Gowland's lotion, will be found a most useful external application. See below. Lotion for Freckles. Prep. 1. Bichloride of mercury, 5 gr.; hydrochloric acid, 30 drops j lump sugar, 1 oz. ; rectified spirit of wine, 2 oz.; rose water, 7 oz.; agitate together until the whole is dissolved. 2. Petals or leaves of red roses, 1 oz.; hot water, 12 fl. oz.; infuse an hour, and strain, with expression, ^ pint; add of citric acid, 30 gr.; dissolve, and in a few hours decant the clear. 3. Rose leaves (dried), ^ oz.; lemon juice (freshly expressed) and rum or brandy, of each, i pint; digest 24 hours, and squeeze out the liquor for use. 4. (Kittoe’s.) Sal ammoniac, 1 dr.; spring water, 1 pint; lavender water or eau de Co- logne, i oz.; mix. The above are applied with the fingers night and morning, or oftener. Pomade for Freckles. Prep. 1. Citrine ointment, 1 dr.; simple ointment, 7 dr.; otto of roses, 3 drops. 2. Elder flower ointment, 1 oz.; sulphate of zinc (levigated), 20 gr.; mix by porphyriza- tion, or by trituration in a wedgewood-wai'e mortar. Both the above, applied night and morning, are excellent for either cold or sum- mer freckles. FREEZING MIXTURES. See Ice and Re- FRIGERATION. FRENCH BER'RIES. Syn. Persian berries, Avignon b. ; Graines d’Avignon, Fr. The unripe berries or fruit of the Rhamnus infecto- rius. They are imported from France and Persia; those from the latter country being esteemed the best. Some writers state that