381 CALAMINE—CALCIUM. good cakes. Both are suitable to delicate stomachs, especially in dyspepsia, with acidity. Sponge Cakes. Prep. From 8 eggs; lump sugar, ^ lb.; flour, ^ lb.; water, i pint; the yellow peel of a lemon ; mix as follows :—Put the lemon peel into the water; when about to make the cake, put the sugar into a saucepan, pour the water and peel on it, and let it stand by the fire to get hot. Break the eggs into a deep earthen vessel that has been made quite hot; remove from the heat, whisk for a few minutes; make the sugar and water boil up, and pour it very gradually boiling-hot over the eggs; continue to whisk them briskly until they become thick and white; add the flour (quite warm), stir it lightly in, put the paste into tins lined with white paper, and bake them immediately in a moderately hot oven. Tea Cakes. Syn. Benton Cakes. Prep. From flour, 1 lb.; butter, 4 oz.; and milk, q. s.; bake on a hot hearth or slow oven plate. 2. To the last, add 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. Tip'sy Cakes. Prep. Small sponge cakes steeped in brandy, and then covered with grated almonds and candied peel; or almonds (cut into spikes) are stuck in them. They are commonly piled on a dish, surrounded with a custard, and covered with preserves drained as dry as possible. Wigg Cakes. Prep. From ^ pint of warm milk ; | lb. of flne flour ; and 2 or 3 spoonfuls of light yeast. Afterwards work in 4 oz. each of sugar and butter; make it into cakes, or wiggs, with as little flour as possible, add a few caraway seeds, and bake them quickly. Cakes. (In medicine.) Cakes have been used as a form of administering medicinal substances to children, but have not been ex- tensively employed in this country for the purpose, unless by quacks, and in domestic practice. In preparing them, the active in- gredients are added in such proportions to the common materials of a sweet cake, that one or two, as the case may be, are sufficient for a dose. See Gingerbeead, Woem-cakes, &c. CAL'AMINE. See Zinc (Carbonate of). CALCINA'TION. The operation of burning or roasting any solid body to expel its more volatile parts, as the conversion of chalk into lime by the expulsion of carbonic acid. The oxidation of metals by heat was formerly re- garded as an analogous process, the oxides being looked upon as true calces or cinders. The roasting of the ores in the first stage of the Welsh process of copper smelting and in the Silesian mode of extracting zinc is techni- cally termed calcination. The method of conducting the process of calcination depends on the nature of the body operated on. Many substances, for delicate experiments, are calcined over a spirit lamp in a platinum spoon or crucible; others, in iron vessels or earthen crucibles, placed in a com- mon furnace. When the action of the air proves injurious, as in the manufacture of CHARCOAL, the process is performed in close vessels or chambers. In some cases, the fuel is mixed with the articles, and they are both burnt together, as in the manufacture of lime, the roasting of ores, &c. The process of dry- j ing salts, or driving off their water of crystalli- 1 zation by heat, is also frequently called calci- nation ; thus we have calcined copperas, alum, ^c. CALCr'NER. A reverberatory furnace used for the calcination of metallic ores, particularly those of COPPER and zinc (which see). CAL'CIUM. [Eng., L.] The metal of which LIME is an oxide. Though it is a che- mical curiosity when isolated, it is one of the most abundant substances in nature, forming a very large portion of the crust of the earth. It occurs in combination with fluorine as fluor-spar; with oxygen and carbonic acid as chalk, lime- stone, and marble; and with oxygen and sul- phuric acid as gypsum. The metal was first obtained from lime by Sir H. Davy, in 1808; but little was known of its properties until Dr. Matthiessen formed it by the electrolytic decomposition of the chloride of calcium. Prep. 1. By the action of a powerful voltaic current upon a paste of pure lime in contact with mercury, as in the original method of preparing barium (see page 265). 2. By the electrolysis of chloride of calcium in a state of fusion. 3. (Caron.) Fused chloride of calcium in powder, 300 parts; distilled zinc, finely granu- lated, 400 parts; sodium, in small pieces, 100 parts; the whole placed in a crucible and heated to redness in an ordinary furnace. The action is very feeble at first, but after some time zinc flames arise. The heat must now be moderated, to prevent the volatilization of the zinc, but at the same time it must be maintained as high as possible. When the crucible has remained in this state for about a quarter of an hour it may be withdrawn. On cooling, a metallic button will be found at the bottom. This alloy of zinc and calcium, which generally contains from 10 to 15§ of the latter metal, must be placed in a coke crucible and heated until the whole of the zinc is driven off. The alloy should be in pieces as large as possible. When proper precautions have been observed, a button of calcium is obtained, only contaminated with the foreign metals contained in the zinc. Prop., ^c. The metal belongs to the group which includes barium, strontium, and mag- nesium; it is of a light-yellow colour; is rather harder than lead, and very malleable. It melts at a red heat. It tarnishes in a day or two, even in dry air, and in contact with moist air it breaks up like ordinary lime. Its sp. gr. is 1*55. Tests. Salts of calcium or lime in solution produce a white precipitate with carbonate of ammonia; it becomes far less voluminous on heating the solution, and dissolves very