612 DECOLORATION—DECOMPOSITION. obtusifolius), 1 oz.; water, 1 pint; boll for 10 minutes, and strain. Ohs. This decoction is astringent, and was once much celebrated as a remedy for scurvy and some other cutaneous affections. “It is the only remedy which proves efficacious in that disease, when the ulcers are healed, and the patient is attacked with asthma.” (Linnseus, on the scurvy of the Laplanders.) White Decoction (Sydenham^s). Syn. Harts- HOEN DEINK; MiS'TDEA COE'NTJ IJSTI. Prep. Prepared burnt hartshorn, 2 oz.; gum arable, 1 oz.; water, 3 pints; boil to 1 quart, and strain. Mucilaginous; demulcent. Taken ad libitum. Decoction of Whor'tleherry. Syn. Decoc- tion OF BEAE-BEEEY, D. OF IJVA-IJESI; De- COCTUM uv^ IJESI (Ph. L. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Whortleberry leaves, 1 oz.; water, 1^ pint; boil to a pint, and strain. 2. (Ph. D.) Uva-ursi (the leaves), i oz.; water, ^ pint; boil 10 minutes, and strain. Dose, i^c. 1 to 3 fl. oz., two or three times daily; in phthisis and purulent affections of the urinary organs, unaccompanied with active inflammation; especially in chronic affections of the bladder. Decoction of Willow Bark. Syn. Decoctijm SALiciS, D. S. CORTicis, L. Prep. 1. (Wil- kinson.) Willow baric {Salix latifolia), bruised, 1^ oz.; macerate in water, 2 lb., for 6 hours, then boil for 15 minutes, and strain. Tonic, astringent, and febrifuge. Dose. A wine-glass- ful. 2. (Nieman.) Willow baric (Salix alba), 1^ oz.; water, f pint; boil to one half. Dose. 1 to 2 fl. oz. Both are used as substitutes for decoction of cinchona bark. Decoction of Win'ter-green. Syn. Decoc- tion OF PYEOLA, D. OF UMBELLATED WINTEE- GEEEN, D. OF PIPSISSEWA ; DeCOCTUM CHIMA- PHIL.® (Ph. L.), D. PYEOL.E (Ph. D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Chimaphila (dried herb), 1 oz.; water, 1^ pint; boil to a pint, and strain. 2. (Ph. D.) Winter-green (dried leaves), \ oz.; water, ^ pint; boil 10 minutes in a covered vessel, and strain. Tonic, stomachic, alterative, and diuretic. Dose. 1 to 2 fl. oz.; in dropsies, scrofula, debility, loss of appetite, &c.; and in those affections of the urinary organs in which uva-ursi is commonly given. Decoction of Worm'seed. Syn. Decoctum SANTONICI, L. Prep. 1. Wormseed, bruised, 2 oz.; water, 1 pint; boil down to IG fl. oz., and strain. 2. (Dr. R. E. Griffith.) Fresh leaves of wormseed {Chenopodium anthelminticum,— Linn.), loz.; tvater,l\A\\i', orange peel, 2^ dr.-, boil (10 minutes), and strain. The above are bitter, stomachic, and vermifuge. Dose. A wine-glassful twice a day; in worms. It is also used as an injection against ascarides. Decoction of Yar'row. Syn. Decoctum MILLEFOLII, L. Prep. Prom milfoil or yarrow tops, 1^ oz.; water, 1^ pint; boil to a pint, and strain. Astringent, tonic, and vulnerary. | Dose. A wine-glassful, thrice daily; in di’op- sies, Ac. It is also used as a fomentation to i bruises, &c. ' DECOLORA'TION. The blanching or re- moval of the natural colour of any substance. Syrups, and many animal, vegetable, and SALINE SOLUTIONS, are decoloured or whitened by agitation with animal charcoal, and sub- | sequent subsidence or filtration. Many fluids \ rapidly lose their natural colour by exposure i to light, especially to the direct rays of the sun. In this way castoe, nut, poppy, and i several other oils, are whitened. Fish oils i are partially deodorized and decoloured by fil- | tration through animal charcoal. Cottons » and linens are still commonly bleached by i the joint action of light, air, and moisture. The peculiar way in which light produces this effect has never been satisfactorily explained. The decoloration of textile fabrics and solid 1 bodies generally is called bleaching. See i Blanching, Bleaching, Oils, Tallow, Syrups, Sugar, &c. DEC0MP0SI"TI0N (-zish'-un). In die- . mistry, the resolution of compounds into their | elements, or the alteration of their chemical i constitution in such a manner that new pro- ducts are formed. Double decomposition, or the mutual exchange of atoms, or groupings of atoms, appears to be the primary type of chemical action. Under certain conditions, ( very many chemical compounds are decom- < posed when traversed by the electric current. i This is termed electrolytic decomposition. ; The power or force which occasions che- mical decompositions and combinations is called ‘ chemical affinity j or ‘ elective attrac- i tionj and operates between the ultimate atoms : of bodies only at insensible distances. The I order in which these changes occur between the atoms of different substances, is exhibited 'j! in the tables of affinity already given. The ' laws which regulate chemical affinity are doubtless fixed and immutable, although in the present state of science we are unable to reduce them to a code or system. The rules ' which chemists at various times have attempted to establish are subject to numerous excep- tions, being modified by other forces, as those of heat and cohesion. The following observa- tions may prove useful to the reader, espe- cially in extemporaneous prescribing and the laboratory : 1. 'Pwo salts which, by the exchange of their acid and base, are capable of forming a soluble and an insoluble salt, or two insoluble ones, sufier mutual decomposition, with these results, I when brought together in a state of solution; j unless, which is rare, the soluble and insoluble I salt form a double compound during their | combination. Thus, solutions of chloride of i barium and sulphate of soda (both soluble), I when mixed, form insoluble sulphate of baryta, and chloride of sodium, which is soluble. This is known as the ‘ law of Berlhollet.’ 2. The solutions of two salts whose acids i