PIERRE DIVINE—PILL RUFI. 1065 I i Prop., 8fc. It forms small, colourless, stel-1 lated needles; soluble in alcohol, ether, and i l,cetlc acid, [and feebly so in water; boiling jvater dissolves it freely; taste of solutions, in- I xpressibly bitter; reaction, neutral. It does iiot combine with acids, as formerly asserted, |)ut it forms feeble combinations with some of I he bases. It is a powerful intoxicant and larcotico-acrid poison. It acts powerfully on I he spinal cord and nervous system generally, iiccasioning an increase of the animal tempe- jature, and peculiar movements, similar to fhose described by Elourens as resulting from 'ections of the cerebellum. It is frequently |)resent in malt liquors, owing to their com- non adulteration with cocculus Indicus. (See mge 459.) PrERRE DIVINE. Syn. Cfpriim alumina- I'UM. See Lapis Ditintjs. PIES. Alexis Soyer gives the following in- tructions for making pies:— To make a 2ne to perfection,—when your >aste (half-puff ox short) is carefully made, and our dish or form properly full, throw a little lour on your paste-board, take about a ^ lb. of our paste, which roll with your hand until say) an inch in circumference; then moisten ihe rim of your pie-dish, and fix the paste j qually on it with your thumb. When you pave rolled your paste for the covering, or upper crust, of an equal thickness throughout, l.nd in proportion to the contents of your pie j i inch is about the average), fold the cover in wo, lay it over one half of your pie, and turn he other half over the remaining part; next )ress it slightly with your thumb round the | im, cut neatly the rim of the paste, form iather a thick edge, and mark this with a j.nife about every quarter of an inch apart; ibserving to hold your knife in a slanting lirection, which gives it a neat appearance; astly, make two small holes on the top, and I'gg-over the whole with a paste-brush, or else pse a little milk or water. Any small portion if paste remaining may be shaped to fan- iful designs, and placed as ornaments on the I op. I “For meat pies, observe that, if your paste s either too thick or too thin, the covering 00 narrow' or too short, and requires pulling me way or the other, to make it fit, your pie s sure to be imperfect, the covering no longer motecting the contents. It is the same with jriiit; and if the paste happens to be rather jich, it pulls the rim of the pie to the dish, sod- ilens the paste, makes it heavy, and, therefore. Indigestible as well as unpalatable." Meat pies require the addition of either •ayenne, or black pepper, or allspice; and ruit pies, of enough sugar to sweeten, with nace, ginger, cloves, or lemon peel, according to aste and the substance operated on. See *ASTEY, &c. PIG. The pig or hog (Sus Scrofa—Linn), me of the common pachydermata, is now do- nesticated in all the temperate climates of the ■w'orld. Its flesh constitutes pork, bacon, ham, &c.; its fat (lard) is officinal in the Phar- macopoeias. The skin, bristles, and even the blood and intestines of this animal, are either eaten as food or turned to some useful i)ur- pose in the arts. See Poek, Leathee, &c. PIG'MENTS. These are noticed under the respective colours. PIKE. The Esox Lucius (Linn.), a fresh- water fish. It is remarkable for its voracity, but is highly esteemed by epicures. Various parts of it were formerly used in medicine. The fat (oleem lucii piscis) was one of the simples of the Ph. L. of 1618, and was es- teemed as a friction in catarrhs. It is even now used in some parts of Europe to disperse opacities of the cornea. PIL'CHARD. The Clupea Pilchardus, a fish closely resembling the common herring, than which, however, it is smaller, but thicker and rounder, and more oily. It abounds on the coasts of Devon and Cornwall, where it is not only consumed as food, but pressed for its oil. PILES. Syn. HemoeehoidS; Hjemoe- EHOIDES, L. A painful disease occasioned by the morbid dilatations of the veins at the low’^er part of the rectum and surrounding the anus. Piles are principally occasioned by costive- ness and cold; and, occasionally, by the use of acrid food. They have been distinguished into—BLIND PILES, or a varicose state of the veins without bleeding,—mucoes piles, when the tumours are excoriated, and mucus or pus is discharged,—bleeding piles, when accom- panied with loss of blood, and—excels- cential piles, when there are loose fleshy excrescences about the verge of the anus and within the rectum. The treatment of piles consists in the admi- nistration of mild aperients, as castor oil, or an electuary of sulphur and cream of tartar. When there is much inflammation or bleeding, cold and astringent lotions, as those of sulphate of zinc or alum, should be applied; and when the pain is considerable, fomentations of decoc- tion of poppy heads may be used with advan- tage. To arrest the bleeding, ice is also fre- quently applied, but continued pressure is more certain. When the tumours are large and flaccid, the compound ointment of galls is an excellent application; and if there is a tendency to inflammation, a little liquor of diacetate of lead may be added. In confirmed piles, the internal use of copaiba, or, still better, of the confection of black pepper, should be perse- vered in for some time, together with local applications. In severe cases the protruded tumours are removed by surgeons, by the knife or ligature. See Ointments, Electe- AEIES, &c. PILL COCHIA. See CoMPOEND COLOCYNTH Pills (below). PILL RUFI. See Pills op Aloes with Myreh (below).