SILVER SHELLS—SILVERING. 1201 ; SILVER SHELLS. These are prepared and sed like gold shells. SILVERING. The art of covering the sur- ices of bodies with a thin coating of silver. EATHEE, PAPEE, WOOD, &c., are silvered by j)vering them with silver leaf, by a similar jrocess to that employed for gilding them. |iee pages 687 to 690.) i Silvering of Glass. Two distinct methods •e adopted for this purpose—one of which [msists in employing a layer of tinfoil and mer- \iry, falsely called ‘silvering’; the other in ling a coating of real silver precipitated om a solution of that metal. 1. Plane surfaces, as those of mirrors, &c., ■e commonly silvered as follows:—A sheet of j-i-/oe7 corresponding to the size of the plate j’ glass is evenly spread on a perfectly smooth id solid marble table, and every wrinkle on p surface is carefully rubbed down with a a portion of mercury is then poured |i, and rubbed over the foil with a clean piece ' very soft woollen stuff, or a harems foot, after lich two rules are applied to the edges, and ercury poured on to the depth of a crown- 2ce, when any oxide on the surface is care- lly removed, and the sheet of glass, made j»er- ,'^tly clean and dry, is slid along over the irface of the liquid metal, so that no air, l*t, or oxide, can possibly either remain or |t between them. When the glass has ar- I'ed at its proper position, gentle pressure is plied, and the table sloped a little to carry j the waste mercury, after which it is covered jth flannel and loaded with heavy weights; 1 24 hours it is removed to a wooden table d further slanted, and this position is pro- ,3ssively increased during a month, until it jjomes perpendicular. .For silvering convex or concave surfaces a I'uld of plaster of Paris is employed, so that V amalgamated foil may be accurately fitted I the surface. \Globes and other hollow vessels are commonly leered by the application of one of the sil- king amalgams noticed at page 131. 2- In the humid way.—a. (Drayton.) A rture is first made of nitrate of silver (in ' irse powder), 1 oz., liquor of ammonia, ^ oz. • 1 water, 2 oz., which, after standing for 24 1 irs, is filtered (the deposit upon the filter, ' ich is silver, being preserved), and an addi- 1 a is made thereto of spirit (by preference, Uified spirit at 60§ o. p.), or naphtha, 3 oz.; 1 tu 20 to 30 drops of oil of cassia are then Ged; and, after remaining for about 6 hours Ijger, the solution is ready for use. The ^|3s to be silvered (first well cleaned and l ished) is placed in a horizontal position, ®|i a wall of putty, or other suitable material, fined around it; the above solution is then I red over it to the depth of from ^ to i inch; ^in 6 to 12 drops of a mixture of oil of cloves a| spirit of wine (in the proportion of 1 part, iineasure, of oil of cloves, to 3 of spirit of ''j^) are next dropped into it, at different places; or the diluted oil of cloves may be mixed with the solution before it is poured upon the glass, a larger quantity, in both cases, increasing the rate of the deposit. When the glass is sufficiently silvered, the solution is poured off; and as soon as the silver on the glass is perfectly dry, it is varnished with a composition formed by melting together equal quantities of bee^ wax and talloiu. The solu- tion, after being poured off", is allowed to stand for 3 or 4 days, in a close vessel; as it still contains silver, and may be again employed after jiltration, and the addition of a sufficient quantity of fresh ingredients to supply the place df those which have been used. 18 gr. of nitrate of silver are sufficient for one square foot of glass. Hollow vessels may be silvered by pouring the solution into them. By the addition of a small quantity of oil of caraway, oil of cloves, or oil of thyme, the colour of the silver may be varied. (‘ Patent Journ.’) b. (Thomson & Mellish.) Nitrate of silver, 2 oz. / water and rectijied spirit, of each, 3 ff. oz.; dissolve, add of spirit of hartshorn or liquor of ammonia, 1 fl. oz., mix, and after a short time filter the solution; to each ounce of this add of grape sugar, ^ oz., previously dis- solved in a mixture of rectified spirit and water, of each, ^ pint; after 3 or 4 hours’ repose it is fit for use. This solution is applied to the glass, heated to about 160° Fahr., in a similar manner to the last. Patented. c. (Vohl.) 'A solution of gun-cotton in caustic potassa is added to a solution of nitrate of silver, followed by sufficient strong liquor of ammonia to redissolve the precipitate; the resulting argentiferous liquid is applied to the glass, which is then slowly heated over a water bath until effervescence ensues, and the deposit of silver is complete. Obs. Various other reducing substances be- sides those above named, as aldehyde, and several of the acids, cause the deposition of silver in a reguline form from its solutions. “ Our own plan, which, as practised by us, appears superior to all those patented, is essen- tially as follows : —A certain proportion of saccharic acid is added to a solution of nitrate of silver, and when the mixture is complete, and after repose for a short time, the liquid is decanted, and applied to the glass; a solution of ammonia is at the same added, to throw down the metal, followed by the application of a gentle heat, to impart brilliancy to the deposit.” (Cooley.) Silvering of Metals. 1. (Leap silveeing.) This is performed with Uaf silver in the way described at page 689, for the gilding of polished metals. 2. (Cold silveeing.) Mix chloride of silver, 1 part, with pearlash, 3 parts, common salt, 1^ part, and whiting, 1 part; and well rub the mixture on the surface of the brass or copper (previously well cleaned), by means of a piece of soft leather, or a cork moistened with water and dipped into the powder. 76