184 ANTIMONY. 1. (Arsenic.) By fusing the sample,in powder, mixed with about an equal weight of tartrate or bitartrate of potassa, in a covered crucible, for 2 or 3 hours, and placing the resulting button, which is an alloy of antimony and potassium, in a ‘ Marsh's apparatus ’ along with a little water, when the disengagement of hydrogen gas will commence, and may be tested in the usual manner. See Arsenic. 2. (Iron.) Dissolve the powdered sample in nitrohydrochloric acid, dilute the solution with a large quantity of cold water, filter, and pass a current of sulphuretted hydrogen through the filtrate as long as it produces a precipi- tate ; again filter, boil the filtered liquor for a few minutes to drive off the sulphuretted hy- drogen, and then test it with ferrocyanide of jjotassium, which will give a blue precipitate if IRON be present; or supersaturate the last filtrate wfith ammonia, and then add hydro- sulphuret of ammonia, when, under like con- ditions, a black precipitate will be formed. 3. (Lead.) Digest the powdered sample in hot nitric acid, which will dissolve out the LEAD but leave the ‘ antimony ’ behind. The w’hitish powdery residuum may be washed, dried, ignited, and weighed, as above; the clear decanted liquor may be now mixed with the first washings, evaporated to dryness, the residuum re-dissolved in water, and the solu- tion submitted to reagents {see Lead). If lead is found to be present, a solution of sulphate of soda may be added until it ceases to disturb the liquid, and the resulting preci- pitate (SELPHATE OF LEAD) washed, dried, and gently ignited (alone) in a porcelain cru- cible ; the weight of the ignited residuum fur- nishes a number which multiplied by *683, gives the weight of the lead sought. 4. (Sulphur.) The solution in nitrohydro- chloric acid, when tested with either nitrate of baryta or chloride of barium, gives a white precipitate of sulphate of baryta, insoluble in both w^ater and acids, w'hich when dried, ignited, and weighed, and the w^eight ’ mul- tiplied by "136, gives the quantity of selpher, as before. In this case, as with the sulphurets (see above), ‘ free sulphur ’ maybe removed by digesting and washing the powdered sample in bisulphuret of carbon, previous to its solution in the acid, by w'hich the violence of the subse- quent reaction will be lessened. 5. (Tin.) Two samples of equal w^eight are taken; the one is tested for antimony, as de- scribed above; the other is dissolved in a mix- ture of equal parts of hydrochloric and nitro- hydrochloric acid, and a blade of zinc im- mersed in the solution (see above) j the mixed precipitate of tin and antimony which forms is collected on a w’eighed filter, w'ashed, dried, and weighed. The ' weight of antimony ’ in the^rs^ sample subtracted from that now ob- tained, leaves a remainder wdiich indicates the quantity of tin in the original sample. Phys. eff., <^c. Pure metallic antimony exerts little action when sw’allow’ed beyond that of a purgative and diaphoretic, and this chiefly when it meets with acidity in the primse via;, or is in a divided state; but (with the excep- tion of the TERSELPHIDE and its acids) nearly all its salts and preparations are emetic and cathartic, and in large doses poisonous—occa- sioning vomiting, profuse alvine dejections, acute colic, and inflammation of the stomach and bowels, often serious, though rarely re- sulting in death. Tartar emetic and bet- ter OF ANTIMONY are those from w^hich acci- dents have principally occurred.—Symj)toms, lesions, &^c. These for the most part resemble those produced by the other irritant metallic poisons. The lungs are the viscera chiefly effected, becoming violet-coloured, non-crepi- tant, and gorged with blood, with (occasion- ally) irregular black spots. The digestive canal is generally deeply injected throughout its whole extent, wfith frequent extravasations, and gangrenous condition of stomach. The heart is usually empty, or if it contains blood, this is liquid and dark-coloured; w'hilst the blood is found liquid throughout the body. In slow chronic poisoning the liver is fre- quently enlarged, and so softened that its structure may be easily broken dowm. The poison may be detected in the urine; and after death, in the blood, and in the stomach, intes- tines, and other viscera, particularly the liver and kidneys.—Ant., <^c. Copious vomit- ing, if it has not already occurred, should be promoted, and the recently prepared hydrated sulphuret of iron administered in considerable doses, followed or accompanied by mucilagi- nous drinks and diuretics. If much prostra- tion follows, wine and stimulants may be had recourse to. In the absence of ‘ hydrated sul- phuret of iron,’ a solution of tannin, or decoc- tion of galls; cinchona, or oak bark, or even powdered cinchona, mixed wfith tepid w^ater, may be administered. Uses. In the artis, antimony enters into the composition of several useful alloys, as type- metal, PEWTER, BRITANNIA-METAL, MESIC- PLATE METAL, &c. It is added to the alloy for concave mirrors, to give them a finer texture; to bell metal, to render it more sonorous; and to various other metals to increase their hard- ness and fusibility ; for the latter purpose it is employed in the casting of cannon balls. In medicine, metallic antimony is now seldom, if ever, employed; but some of its preparations are much esteemed as safe and efficacious remedies. “In physics, its uses are so various, that, according to its preparation alone, or in company wfith one or tw’o associates, it is suffi- cient to answer all a physician desires in an apothecary’s shop.” (Boyle, a.d. 1670.) Their names and synonyms w'ould alone fill a small volume. In former times purgative pills (Everlasting PILLS, Perpetealp.; Pil'el^e ^ter'n-E, P. perpet'e.®, L.), and cups to render wine emetic (Emetic ceps; Poc'ela emet'ica, Cal'ices vomito”rit, L.) were made of it.