CHOLEEA. 442 breathing give way. Frequently, however, the reaction is accompanied by fever closely resembling typhus, and which often terminates fatally in from four to eight days. The symptoms of epidemic cholera are not always of this terrible character. Treat. After the second great visitation of cholera in 1854 a committee of the Medical Council was appointed by the President of the General Board of Health to inquire into the results of the different methods which had been adopted. As the report drawn up by this committee shows the relative advantages of the principal methods of treatment, we give our readers a brief account of it. Tbe reporters were—Dr. Alderson, Dr. Babington, Dr. Paris, Dr. Tweedie, and Mr. Ward. The number of cholera cases from which the deductions were drawn was 2749. These cases were arranged for examination in three classes— those which were attended in hospitals; those attended in metropolitan districts, not in hos- pitals ; and those which occurred in the pro- vinces. There is a remarkable agreement as to results in these classes of cases; and the usefulness of the inquiry derives from this circumstance an important confirmation. The plans of treatment adopted were ar- ranged for convenience under four heads:— 1. The alterative.—2. The astringent.—3. The stimulant.—4. The eliminant. We now give the results, in the words of the committee :— “ The evidence of these tables condemns the eliminated treatment altogether as a principle of practice. “ It testifies against the stimulant principle, excepting as a resource in extreme cases. “ It displays a decided advantage in the alterative prin- ciple, especially as carried out by calomel and opium; and it shows a still superior advantage in the astringent prin- ciple, as applied through the means of chalk and opium— the general per-centage of deaths following each plan of treatment being— Per cent. Of Eliminants 71'7 Stimulants 54‘ Alteratives, calomel and opium . . 36’2 Astringents, chalk and opium . . 20-3 “ In order to judge correctly of the value of this evi- dence, it is necessary to examine, as far as may be possible, the degree of severity of the cases brought 'beneath this test. The only means at our command (on the present occasion, at least) to make this examination, is, to consider the relative proportion which the cases of collapse bear to the number of deaths of their own classes respectively. Examining, therefore, the collapse cases with the number of deaths, we find that calomel and opium stands highest in the scale of success, and the order of preference appears as follows:— Calomel and opium Calomel {larger doses) Salines Chalk and opium. Calomel {small doses) Castor oil Sulphuric acid Per cent. . 59-2 . 60-9 . 62-9 . 63-2 . 73-9 . 77-6 . 78-9 “According to this result, the superior success of calomel and opium in severer cases appears as a distinct fact, elicited by the present inquiry. It is accompanied by other facts, viz., the relative advantages of those other modes of treatment which follow in their order of success. This order marks the use of calomel in small doses, of castor oil, and of sulphuric acid, as actually to be depre- cated in severe cases. Chalk and opium, as shown above. stands at the head of the list in the general per-centages, both in hospitals and in private practice; but in the com- parison of the collapse cases with the number of deaths, the average declines to the 4M rank.” Other important tables were given of the results of the treatment of the premonitory diarrhoea, with a view to show which method of treatment was best in preventing the diarrhoea from running into cholera. On this point the authors say :— “ Thus the order of per-centage of failure to stay the disease in its earlier stages, or that of premonitory diar- rhoea, is as follows;— Per cent. Or, including the Deaths from Diarrhoea as Failures,per cent. Salines .... 136 — Clmlk mixture . 8-9 12-6 Calomel, with opium . 6-9 71 Opium .... — 2-6 Calomel .... 2-4 ... — Clialk, uuth opium, calomel, and astringents 15 17 Sulphuric acid, with opium and calomel 1-3 1-5 Sulphuric acid, with opium — 0-3 Chalk, with opium, ammonia, and catechu . 0-2 - Taking sulphuric acid witli and without opium, and witli calomel, as an adjunc- tive remedy 1-33 1-54 Taking chalk with and with- out opium, togetlier with aromatic confection and ammonia, with cateclm, kino, logwood ,and calomel, as an adjunctive remedy . 1-31 1-55 Showing a decided preference to the astringent plan of treatment in the early stages of the disease, or in the pre- monitory diarrhoea.” The astringent method of treatment is again shown to have been the best; salines having been the least successful, and the ordi- nary chalk mixture second to it in inefficiency. The value of the sulphuric acid method in diarrhoea appears to be confirmed by these tables, although it failed in cases of collapse. The following are a few of the many reme- dies that have been recommended for this terrible malady:— 1. (American remedy.) Equal parts of sugar 2indi powdered fresh-burnt charcoal, into a stiff* paste with lard, and divided into pieces the size of a filbert. Dose. One, occa- sionally, swallowed whole. 2. (Austrian specific.) The proportions of the ingredients in the following formulae are founded on Mr. Herapath’s analysis of this celebrated preparation, and are given in the nearest available whole numbers :— a. Sulphuric acid (sp. gr. 1‘845), 20 gr.; nitric acid (sp. gr. 1-500), 12 gr.; sugar and gum, of each, 15 gr.; distilled or pure soft water, q. s. to make the whole weigh exactly 1 oz. b. Sulphuric acid, 3 dr.; nitric acid, 2 dr.; simple syrup, 6 dr.; water, q. s. to make the whole weigh exactly 10 oz. A single drop of essential oil of lemon may be added.