OILS (FIXED). 952 When some of these oils are absorbed by porous bodies, and thus expose a vastly in- creased surface to the air, they absorb oxygen with such rapidity as to generate a considerable degree of heat. Paper, tow, cotton, wool, straw, shavings, &c., slightly embued with oil, and left in a heap, freely exposed to the air or sun, often spontaneously inflame. In this way many extensive fires have arisen. The above is more particularly the case with LINSEED, EAPE, NUT, and OLIVE OIL. The first, made into a paste with manganese, rapidly becomes hot, and ultimately inflames spontaneously. The speciflc gravities of the fixed oils range between *865 and ’970, water being 1-000. Prep. The fixed oils, except where other- wise directed, are obtained from the bruised or ground fruit or seed, by means of powerful pressure, in screw or hydraulic presses, and are then either allowed to clarify themselves by subsidence or are filtered. Both methods are frequently applied to the same oil. In some cases the impurities are removed by ebullition with water, and subsequent sepa- ration of the pure oil. Heat is freqiiently employed to increase the liquidity of the oil, and thus lessen the difficulty of its expulsion from the mass. With this object the bruised mass, placed in bags, is commonly exposed to the heat of steam, and then pressed between heated plates of metal. This is always neces- sary with the ‘ BUTYRACEOUS OILS.’ Another method is by boiling the bruised seed in water, and skimming ofi* the oil as it rises to the surface. This is the plan adopted for CASTOR OIL in the West Indies. In a few cases, for medicinal purposes, the bruised mass is mixed with ^ its weight, or an equal weight, of alcohol or ether, and after 24 hours’ digestion the whole is submitted to pressure, and the alcohol or ether removed by distillation at a gentle heat. The first men- struum is commonly employed for croton oil on the Continent; the second, for that of ERGOT OF RYE. Purif. Several methods are adopted for refining or purifying the fixed oils, among which are the following:— 1. The oil is violently agitated along with 1^ to 2g of concentrated sulphuric acid, when it assumes a greenish colour, and, after about a fortnight’s repose, deposits much colouring matter, becomes paler, and burns with greater brilliancy, particularly if well washed with steam or hot water, and clarified by subsequent repose or by filtration. This answers well for most of the recently expressed vegetable oils. It also greatly improves most of the FISH OILS. 2. A modification of the last method is to well mix the acid with the oil, then to ‘blow’ steam through the mixture for some time, and afterwards to otherwise proceed as before. 3. Fish oil (whale, seal, &c.) is purified by— a. Violently agitating it with boiling water or steam, by placing it in a deep vessel with a perforated bottom, through which high-pressure steam is forced for some time; it is afterwards clarified by repose, and filtered through coarse charcoal. b. The oil is violently agitated with a boil- ing-hot and strong solution of oak bark, to re- move albumen and gelatine, and next with high-pressure steampr^ hot water ; it is, lastly, dried and filtered. c. The oil, gently heated, is stirred for some % time with about 1§ of good chloride of lime, | previously made into a milk by trituration 0 with water; about of oil of vitriol, di- f luted with 20 times its weight of water, is then added, and the agitation renewed and maintained for at least 2 hours; it is, lastly, well washed with steam or hot water. d. Mr. Davidson treats the oil, first with a strong solution of tan, next with water and chloride of lime, then with dilute sulphuric acid, and, lastly, with hot water. e. Mr. Dunn’s method, which is very effec- tive, and admirable on account of its simplicity, is to heat the oil by steam to from 180° to 200° Fahr., and then to force a current of air of corresponding temperature through it, under a flue or chimney, until it is sufficiently bleached and deodorized; it is, lastly, either at once filtered or is previously washed with I steam or hot water. 1 f. Another method, formerly very generally | adopted and still in use, is to violently agitate j the oil for some time with very strong brine, S or with a mixed solution of blue vitriol and ij common salt, and then either to allow it to 4 clarify by repose or to filter it through freshly 1 burnt charcoal. 4. Almond, castor, linseed, nut, olive, RAPE, and some other vegetable oils, are readily bleached by either of the following pro- cesses :— a. Exposure in glass bottles to the sun’s rays, on the ‘ leads’ or roofs of houses, or in any other suitable position, open to the south- east and south. This is the method employed by druggists and oilmen to whiten their castor and linseed oils. 14 to 21 days’ exposure to the sun in clear weather during summer is usually sufficient for castor oil when contained in 2 to 4-quart pale green glass bottles (pre- ferably the former), and covered with white gallipots inverted over them. The oil is fil- tered before exposing it to the light, as, if only in a slight degree opaque, it does not bleach well. Almond and olive oil are, when thus treated, apt to acquire a slight sulphur- ous smell; but this may be removed by filtra- tion through a little animal charcoal, or, still better, by washing the oil with hot water. b. Another method employed to decolour these oils is to heat them in a wooden, tinned, or well-glazed earthen vessel along with some dry |