FISH. 649 rate calculations of tlie returns of fisheries made hy Messrs, Ashworth and Huist, only one salmon cgtj out of every thousand deposited ever becomes a fish Jit for human food. Other ! fish, both fresh and salt-water, sufter in pro- | portion. The hatching of fish hy artificial means has been carried out on a large scale in France, and has been commenced in Scotland ! and Ireland, and on a small scale in England. The spawning fish, having been caught by a net, is made to deposit her eggs by gently pressing on the abdomen; these are impreg- nated by ‘ milt ^ expressed from the male fish in-a similar manner, and mixed with them in a shallow tub or other ,vessel prepared for the purpose. The impregnated eggs are placed in long shallow boxes, bottomed with gravel and pebbles, and so arranged that a small stream of water from a reservoir may flow from one to another. The time of hatching depends entirely upon the temperature of the water; from 40° to 45° Fahr. seems to be the healthiest temperature. After about 50 days (in the case of salmon), when all goes well, the young fish makes its appearance as a mis- shapen creature about an inch long, with a bag containing the yolk of the egg attached to its abdomen. At 3 days old the fry is about 2 gr. in weight; at 16 months it has increased to 2 oz. To preserve the young fish in health, the boxes must be covered with shades of slate or zinc. The French fish- breeders generally feed the young fry with boiled frogs powdered fine. The Scotch give boiled liver. Mr. Buckland prescribes a diet of roe of sole, or plaice, or ichiling. As to the age at which it is advisable to turn the young jfish out of the nursery, there is much difierence of opinion. Some breeders recominend turn- ing them out as soon as the ‘ umbilical bag * is absorbed; others think they should be taken rare of till they are older and stronger, and better able to defend themselves or escape from attack. For full details respecting the Artificial propagation of fish, the reader is re- ferred to Mr. Buckland’s recent work, entitled Fish-Hatching.^ Choice, ^c. “ The flesh of any fish is always in the highest perfection, or in season, as it is ailed, during the period of the ripening of he milt and roe. After the fish has deposited he spawn, the flesh becomes soft, and loses a ;reat deal of its peculiar flavour. This is )wing to the disappearance of the oil or fat roin the flesh, it having been expended in the unction of reproduction.” (Fleming’s ‘ Phil. )f Zoology.’) Fish should be dressed as soon fter being caught as possible, as much of heir peculiar delicacy and flavour is lost by ceeping, even for a few hours. Turbot and •almon are said by the fishmongers to be im- u’oved in flavour when 2 or 6 days old, but his is surely a mistake, as the former, when Iressed immediately after btnng caught, pos- esses a fine creamy taste, which it afterwards OSes; whilst the latter, by the loss of a single tide, loses a portion of the fine white curd which is previously found between the flakes, and by longer keeping, this curd, with the larger flakes, disappear altogether. In the eyes of some epicures the richness is, however, increased by this change. Mackerel, and some other fish, suffer so much from keeping only a few hours, that they become quite un- wholesome. Herrings offer a remarkable ex- ample of the advantage of dressing fish as fresh as possible. When cooked soon after being caught, they possess considerable deli- cacy and flavour, but after being kept for only a few hours the oil separates from the flesh, and they become soft, greasy, and strong- flavoured. In the choice of every Jcind of fish, stiffness, brightness of the eyes, and redness of the gills, may be regarded as invariable signs of freshness. A peculiar elasticity will also be perceived in fish recently caught, little or no permanent impression being made by the or- dinary pressure of the fingers, from the flesh immediately rising when the pressure is with- drawn. Fresh fish also lie in a partly curled position, and never quite straight, as is the case when they have been kept for some time. Thickness and fleshiness are deemed marks of the good condition of all fish. Cleaning, dressing, On the proper cleaning of fish preparatory to dressing it, depends much of its delicacy and flavour. Ordinary cooks seldom do this well, from not slitting the fish sufficiently open to permit the inside to be thoroughly washed, and seldom using sufficient water. The superior flavour of fish cleaned by the fishmongers arises from their performing the operation more com- pletely, and from the large quantity of water they employ about tliem. The flavour of all fish is improved by adding a little salt or vinegar to the last water in which they are washed. The sound, milt, and roe, should be carefully cleaned and preserved. Fish is preferably ‘ dressed ’ by simple boiling, broiling, or frying; in fact, the finer kinds of fish are often injured by the excessive interference of the cook. When boiled, all large fish, with the skin whole, must be placed on the fire in cold water; if crimped, or cut into slices or pieces, in boiling water ; if whole, it must not be covered with more than two or three inches of water, or the skin will crack, and not only spoil the appearance of the fish, but will diminish the gelatine and gluten it contains, and instead of eating firm and full of flavour, it will be soft and woolly, especially if over-boiled.” (Soyer.) As soon as a scum rises from boiling, it should be removed by the skimmer. The addition of a little salt or vinegar to the water improves the flavour of most fish, and renders the flesh firmer. The proportions should be “two teaspoonfuls of salt to every quart of w'ater.” “If the fish be whole, as soon as it begins to boil remove the cover on one side, and let it