8 ABSORPTION—ABSTINENCE. move acidity from tlie stomach and bowels. Of these, the principal are—magnesia, carbonate and bicarbonate of magnesia, prepared chalk, and the carbonates and bicarbonates of potassa, soda, and ammonia. The first four are popularly called earthy absorbents ; and the others, alkaline absorbents. Their wse and dose is noticed under each, in its alphabetical place, and more particularly under antacids, where (and under alkalines) the serious con- sequences of their abuse are referred to. ABSORP'TION. [Eng., Er.) Syn. Absorp'tio, L.; Einsaugtjng, Ger. The act or the power of absorbing, in various applications. (See below.) Absorption. In agriculture, the power pos- sessed by soils of absorbing moisture from the atmosphere. The more a soil is divided by labour and vegetation, the greater is its absor- bent power, and, consequently, its fertility. Indeed, the latter chiefly depends on its capacity for imbibing moisture, and may be il- lustrated by reference to recent and disin- tegrated lava. (Leslie.) The finely divided state, most penetrable by the delicate fibres of plants, appears to derive its superior power of acting on atmospheric vapour from the aug- mentation of its surface and the multiplication of its points of contact. (Ure.) This method of increasing the fertility of a soil is well known to scientific farmers, and seldom neglected by them. (Loudon.) That soil must be regarded as the most fertile, which possesses this power in the greatest degree. Garden-mould has the highest absorbent power of any mineral sub- stance. (Leslie.) Process of aseer^ammythe absorbent power OE SOILS, and other substances. Thoroughly dry the article by the suitable application of a heat not exceeding 212° Fahr., continued for several hours, and transfer it, while still warm, into a clean dry phial furnished with a per- fectly tight ground-glass stopper. When cold, quickly and cautiously introduce it, along with a delicate ‘hygrometer,’ into a large wide- mouthed glass bottle, the atmosphere of which has been previously rendered as damp as possible, by suspending a piece of moistened rag or filtering paper in it. It must now be kept closed for some hours, when the hygrometer will indicate the degree of dryness of the en- closed air, and consequently, the ‘ absorbent power’ of the substance examined. Obs. Experiments of this nature are only relatively correct, and must be performed under exactly similar circumstances, to furnish re- liable comparative results. The whole process, in each case, must be as similar as careful mani- pulation can possibly make them. With this reserve, they will be found invaluable to the agriculturist. See Absorbents, Agriculture, Soils, &c. {and below). Absorption. In chemistry, the conversion of a ‘gaseous fluid’ into a liquid or solid, by union with another substance; or, the passage of a ‘ gas’ or ‘ vapour’ into the pores of a liquid or solid 'substance, or of a ‘ liquid’ into the pores of a solid; as that of carbonic acid by new mortar, ammoniacal fumes by sulphate of lime, and sulphuretted hydrogen by charcoal. Absorption. In medicine and toxicology, see Medicines and Poisons. Absorption. In perfumery, see Eneleurage. Absorption. \n physics, see Heat, Light, Reerigeration, &c. Absorption. In physiology (animal and vegetable), the function of sucking, or taking up, of appropriate substances, by the mouths of ‘ absorbent vessels.’ It is one of the chief vital functions, the primary object of which is to convey to the circulatory organs the proper supply of the materials necessary for the support and growth of the body ; and subse- quently, to remove and convey to these organs its effete and useless portions, in order to their ultimate elimination from the system. See Absorbent System, Vegetables, &c. Absorption. In surgery, the natural process by which tumours and their contents, morbid growths, and, sometimes, even healthy glands, &c., are gradually taken up and disappear, by the action of the ‘ absorbents.’ See Abscess, Suppuration, Tumour, &c. “ Absorption (of Surfaces, Moulds, &c.) See Absorbent Sureaces {above). ABSTEMIOUS (-steme'-yiis.) Primarily, ab- staining, or that abstains from ‘ wine.’ In present use, moderate or temperate in diet; less us., in enjoyments, &c. Hence, abstemious- ness, the habit of being abstemious. See Ab- stinence, Intemperance, &c. ABSTERG'EIITS. Sijn. Abstergen'tia, L. In medicine and pharmacy, substances which cleanse or clear away foulness from the surface of the body or sores; as soap, lotions, ^'c. See Detergent, which has a nearly similar meaning, and is in more general use. ABS:TIRENCE. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Absti- nen'tia, L. In ordinary language, a refraining from the customary or undue gratification of the appetite and animal propensities, more especially in respect to the use of food, liquors, &c. In this bearing it nearly coincides with temperance; but it denotes more privation, and the exercise of a greater amount of self-denial, as well as implying previous free indulgence. It is now applied by a certain sect to for- bearance from the use of intoxicating liquors. The advantages of rational abstinence, or ab- stemiousness in eating and drinking, both as regards the health and welfare of the in- dividual, need scarcely be insisted on here. That, under certain circumstances, it conduces to longevity, there can be but little doubt. When excessive, its effects cannot fail to be prejudicial, and productive of debility, suffering, and disease. The instances of ex- treme abstemiousness, or abstinence, in persons who have reached a very great age, are far from few ; but, on the other hand, we have no record of the number who have died from com- plaints thus produced, and depending on in-