1352 WOORARA—WORMS (INTESTINAL). in a solution of caustic soda or potassa, and then withdrawn and washed. If it he of PURE WOOL, it will he dissolved, and wholly disappear; if any threads or fibres are left nndissolved, they consist of either cotton or linen ; of these, such as have acquired a dark yellow tinge, are lineist, w'hilst those which have retained their whiteness, or which are only slightly discoloured, are cotton. The reliitive proportion of the adulteration may he ascertained as before. See Cotton, Linen, and Silk. Wool and woollen goods exhibit a greater affinity for colouring matter than either cotton or linen, and in many cases this exceeds even that of silk. The most difficult dye to impart to wool is a rich, deep, and permanent black. See Dyeing, Mordants, &c. Woollen goods are cleaned and scoured in the manner noticed under Bleaching and Scouring. Spanish Wool. Rouge crepons. (See page 1176.) WOOEA'RA. Syn. Ourari, Wourali. A deadly poison employed in Guiana, obtained from the Strychnos toocifera. See Upas. WOOTZ. The Indian name of steel; applied in this country to the steel imported from Bengal. WORM BARK. Syn. Cabbage-tree bark, or Geoeer.eya inermis, L. The bark of Andira inermis {Geoffroeya i. of some bo- tanists). A powerful astringent, purgative, anthelmintic, and narcotic. Bose. 10 to 30 gr. In larger doses, or if cold water be drunk during its action, it is apt to occasion sick- ness, vomiting, and delirium. The remedy for this is copious draughts of warm water. WORM SEED. Syn. Semen contra. Se- men ciNjE, L. The broken peduncles, mixed with the calyces and flower-buds, of several species of Artemesia imported from the Levant. Bose. 10 to 30 gr., in powder; as a vermifuge. See Santonin. WORMS (Intes'final). Syn. Vermes, In- testinalia (Cuvier), Entozoa (Rudolphi), L. The principal parasites which are generated and nourished in the human intestinal canal are the—AscarislumbricoidesiQax\Q\m), or long ROUND-WORM, found in the small intestines, and wLich is generally of the thickness of a goose-quill, and varies in length from 10 to 15 pearance, varies from 1| to 5 lines in length, and confines itself chiefly to the rectum; — Trichocephalus hominis (Gmelin), or long THREAD-WORM, varying from li to 2 inches in length, and found chiefly in the caecum; — Tcenia solium (Gmelin), or common tape- worm, having a flattened riband-like appear- ance, varying in length from 3 or 4 to 15 or 20 feet, and occupying the small intestines, especially of females and the debilitated;— Taenia vulgaris (Gmelin), or broad tape-worm, a variety seldom found in this country, but common in Switzerland and the north ofj Europe. Causes. A debilitated state of the digestive organs, improper food, sedentary habits, im- pure air, bad water, and, apparently, an occa- sional hereditary tendency to worms. Symp. Griping pains, especially about the navel; acid eructations; slimy stools; occa- sional nausea and vomiting, without any mani- fest cause; heat and itching about the anus; tenesmus ; emaciation ; disturbed dreams ; grinding of the teeth during sleep; pallor of countenance; discoloration round* the eyes; feverishness; headache; vertigo, &c. In many cases these symptoms are often highly aggra- vated, and mistaken for primary diseases. The only absolutely positive evidence of the exist- ence of worms is, however, their being seen in the faeces. Treat. In common cases, an occasional mo- derately strong dose of calomel overnight, fol- lowed by a smart purgative the next morning, is an excellent remedy, where the use of mer- curials is not contra-indicated. Cowhage, made into an electuary with honey or treacle, is also an excellent vermifuge. Oil of turpentine is useful against nearly every variety of worms, and, when taken in sufficient doses to reach the rectum, is almost specific in ascarides (thread-worms). When this is inconvenient, an occasional enema of oil of turpentine is even more effective. Enemas of aloes are also very useful in such cases. Scammony, under the form of basilic poivder, has long been employed to expel worms in children. Aloes, castor oil, worm-seed, tin-flings, and sulphur, are likewise popular remedies. Cabbage-tree bark is a powerful anthelmintic; but its use requires caution. Most of the quack vermifuges con- tain either aloes and gamboge, or calomel and jalap. The substances which have been most highly extolled for the destruction or expul- sion of TAPE-WORM (taenia) are kousso, oil of turpentine, male fern, pomegranate, and tin- filings. The first two are those on which the most dependence may be placed. Madame Nouffer’s celebrated ‘ Swiss remedy’ for tape- worm, for which Louis XVI gave 18,000 francs, consisted of 2 or 3 dr. of powdered male \ fern, taken in i pint of water, in the morning, fasting, followed in 2 hours by a bolus made of ' calomel and scammony, of each, 10 gr., gam- boge, 6 or 7 gr. ‘Swain’s termifuge’ is j prepared from worm-seed, 2 oz.; valerian, rhu- ! barb, pink-root, and white agaric, of each, 1^ oz.; boiled in water, q. s. to yield 3 quarts of decoction, to which 30 drops of oil of tansy, and 45 drops of oil of cloves, dissolved in a quart of rectified spirit, are added. All pur- gatives may be regarded as vermifuges. Be- sides our efforts to destroy and expel the worms, the tone of the primaj via) should be raised by the use of stomachics and tonics, by which the tendency to their equivocal genera- tion will be either removed or lessened. See Decoction, Enema, Pills, Patent Medi-