379 CAFFEINE-MUREXIDE—CAKES. as an antidote to the poisonous elfects of opium. See Coffee, Tea, &c. CAFFE'INE-MUREXTDE. Formed by treat- ing amalic acid with ammonia, in a similar manner to that by which ordinary murexide is obtained from alloxantin. It forms crystals possessing a green metallic lustre, and yielding deep-crimson solutions. CAFFE'ONE. A brown, aromatic oil, formed during the roasting of coffee. CAIN'CIC ACID. An acid principle, disco- vered by Pelletier and Caventou in the bark of the cainca root of Brazil. It is extracted by alcohol, has a bitter taste, and is crystal- lizable. CAJ'EPUT OIL. See Oils (Volatile). CAKES. A species of fancy bread or trifle familiar to every one. Before proceeding to the actual ojieration of cake-making, the various materials which are to enter into their composition undergo a cer- tain amount of preparation. For this purpose every article is got ready about an hour pre- viously to its being wanted, and is placed be- fore the fire, or upon a stove, that it may be- come gently heated. Without these precau- tions it is impossible to produce good cakes. The flour is thoroughly dried, and warmed. The currants are nicely washed in a hair sieve, wiped dry in a cloth, and then set before the fire. Before use, they are dusted over with a little flour. The sugar is rubbed to a fine powder, and passed through a sieve. The eggs are well beaten in a basin, and strained. The butter is melted by being placed in a basin set in hot water, and is afterwards well beaten up with a little warm milk. The Igmon-peel is cut very thin, and beaten in a mortar to a paste or powder, with lump sugar j or for com- mon purposes, it is grated. The caraways, ginger, and other flavouring ingredients, are preferred in the form of flne powder, or are made into an essence, by digesting them in spirit of wine ; the first is the most common method. The milk and water is made luke- warm. When all these things are ready and have stood a sufficient time, they are put into a pan, one after another, in the proper order, and well beaten together, by which the light- ness of the cakes is considerably increased. In plum-cakes, as well as in some other varieties, a little yeast may be added after the butter, and the mass allowed to rise a little, and then again well kneaded, by which not only less butter and eggs may be used, but the products will be both lighter and more wholesome. Good stale bread, well soaked in hot milk or water, and then beaten to a paste, and passed through a fine sieve, forms an excellent thing to mix up the in- gredients with, and produces a very light and nutritious cake. Cakes “wetted up” with milk are “ richer,” but do not keep scr well as those without it; they get stale sooner, and when in that state are far from agreeable to the palate. A kind of flour prepared from maize or Indian corn has been recently intro- duced to the notice of cooks, but it is better adapted for puddings than for cakes. See COEN-FLOUE. Cakes are preferably baked on flat tins or in little “ tin shapes,” which should be first well buttered. Cakes should be kept for store in tin canisters / wooden boxes, unless very well seasoned, are apt to give them an unpleasant taste. Brown-paper linings and wrappers should be avoided for the same reason. See Biscuits, Beead, Bun, Icing, Stains, &c. Al'mond Cakes. Prep, 1. From sweet al- monds (blanched and beaten to a smooth paste),and powdered sugar, of each, i lb. ; 7 eggs, and the outside peel of 4 lemons (shredded small). The almonds, sugar, lemon- peel, and eggs, are beaten together, until as white as sponge paste; the flour next worked in, and the paste put into buttered moulds, and baked in a slack oven, with 8 or 10 thick- nesses of white paper under them and one or two over them. 2. Jllmonds, 1 lb.; sugar, ^ lb; rose water or orange-flower water, ^ pint; flour, lb.; 3 eggs; as above. Some persons ice these cakes. Ban'bury Cakes. Prep. From butter and dough fermented for white bread, of each, 1 lb., as in making puff paste, then rolled out very thin, and cut it into oval or triangular pieces, or other shapes. On these are placed a mix- ture of currants and moist sugar, equal parts, wetted with a little wine or brandy, and the paste being closed up, they are placed on a tin with the closed side downwards, and baked. A little powdered sugar, flavoured with can- died peel (grated), or essence of lemon, is sifted over them as soon as they come out of the oven. In the common cakes of the shops, the brandy is omitted, and lard is used for butter, and less of it. Bath Cakes. Prep. Prom butter,\ lb., flour, 1 lb., 5 eggs, and a cupful of yeast; when risen, add powdered sugar, 4 oz., and caraways, 1 oz. Bake them on tins. Cheese Cakes. Prep. 1. Curdle some warm new milk with rennet, drain the curd in a linen bag, and add ? of its weight, each, of sugar and butter, 6 eggs, some grated nutmeg, and a little orange-flower or rose water. 2. {Almond Cheese Cakes.) To the aboA-e add as much blanched almonds, beaten to a smooth paste, as there is butter, and an equal weight of macaroni. 3. {Lemon Cheese Cakes.) To the first form add lemon peel (grated fine), or essence of lemon, q. s. Di'et Cakes. Syn. Diet beead. Prep. 1. Dissolve sugar, 1 lb., in milk, ^ pint; add 6 eggs, and whisk the mixture to a full froth, then cautiously stir in flour, 1 lb., beat it for I hour, arid immediately bake it in a quick oven. It may be baked whole or divided into small cakes.