BREAD. 358 longer. Then take them out and chip them with a knife, which will make them look spongy, and of a fine yellow ; whereas rasping takes off this fine colour, and renders their look less inviting.” 2. Feench Sotjp-beead. From Jine flour, hut employing fully double the usual quantily of salt. It is baked in thin loaves, so as to be nearly all crust, by which means it becomes more soluble in hot soup. Hick’s Pat'ent Bread. This is ^ordinary bread’ baked in an oven so arranged that the vapours arising during the process are con- densed in a suitable receiver. The ^condensed liquor’ is a crude, weak spirit, produced during the fermentation of the dough, and possesses little commercial value; indeed, insufficient to pay for the expenses attending its collection. Besides which the bread prepared under this patent was rejected by the vulgar, who flocked to the shops of the neighbouring bakers, who professed to sell their bread with “ the gin in it.” House'hold Bread. This name is commonly given to bread made with flour from which only the coarser portion of the bran has been removed; and to bread prepared from a mixture of flour and potatoes. The following are examples :— 1. (Rev. Mr. Haggett.) Remove the flake- bran from flour, 14 lb.; boil the ‘ bran’ in 1 gal. of water until reduced to 7 pints; strain, cool, and knead in the flour, adding salt and yeast as for other bread. Very whole- some. 2. Flour, 7 lb.; mealy potatoes (well-mashed), 3 lb.; as before. Objectionable for the reasons already given (see p. 357, ante). leav'ened Bread (lev'-). Using leaven in- stead of ‘yeast,’ and in the same way. About 1 lb. to each bushel of flour is usually suffi- cient. The more leaven used, the lighter the bread made with it will be; and the fresher and sweeter the leaven, the less sour will it taste. Leaven, except among the Jews, and sailors, is now superseded by yeast. Lon'don White Bread (lun'-). The common proportions of the London bakers are—Flour, 1 sack; common salt, 4^ lb.; alum, 5 oz.'^; yeast, 4 pints; warm water for the sponge, (about) 3 gal. The process has been already noticed.^ Par'is White Bread. The following has been handed to us as the plan commonly adopted by the Paris bakers for their best white bread:— On 80 lb. of the dough (before the yeast was added) from yesterday’s baking, as much luke-warm water is poured as will be required to make 320 lb. of flour into a rather thin dough; as soon as this has risen, 80 lb. are taken out and reserved in a warm place as ‘ leaven’ for the next day’s baking; 1 lb. of dry yeast, dissolved in warm water, is then added to the remaining portion, and the whole lightly 1 See pages 354-5 {ante). * See pages 353-4 {anth). kneaded; as soon as it has sufficiently ‘ risen/ it is made into loaves, and shortly afterwards baked; the loaves being placed in the oven without touching each other, so that they may become ‘ crusty’ all round, Unferment'ed Bread. Sxjn. Extempoea"ne- oils BEEAD. Prep. 1. From Jones’s patent flour (which see). Very wholesome and ex- cellent; indeed, when skilfully made and baked, almost equal to French bread. 2. From Sewell’s patent flour. Slightly in- ferior to the last. 3. To each lb. of flour, add, separately, dr. of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 dr. of tar- taric acid (both perfectly dry, and in very fine powder); rub them well together with the hands until thoroughly incorporated; then form the whole into a dough Avith water, as quickly as possible, and at once bake in a quick oven. About 8 or 9 oz. of water are required for every lb. of flour. Answers well when ex- pertly managed. 4. Flour, 1 lb.; bicarbonate of soda, 1 dr.; mix; make a dough with water, q. s., to which 1 dr. of hydrochloric acid (commer- cial) has been added, and further proceed as before. 5. Wliiting’s Patent-beead :—This closely resembles the last. The proportions are— Flour, 7 lb.; carbonate of soda and hydrochloric acid, of each, 1 oz.; water, 2| pints. This inethod was suggested by Dr. Henry, in 1797, and was patented by Dr. Whiting in 1836. If the proportions be not observed, or the mixture be not perfect, the quality of the bread suffers. The union of the acid and soda forms ‘ common salt’ in the loaf. 6. Ammoni'acal BEEAD:—Sesquicarbonale of ammonia, ^ to 1 oz. ; cold water, q. s.; dis- solve, add oi flour, 7 lb.; and make a dough, which must be formed into loaves and baked immediately, as before.—Obs. To ensure suc- cess the ‘ sesquicarbonate’ should be recent, and^ree from bicarbonate, the presence of which is known by its being white and powdery, and of inferior pungency. If any of the last salt be present, the bread will have a yellowish colour, and a slightly alkaline or urinous flavour. The process answers best for small loaves, cakes, and fancy bread. By employing pure carbonate of ammonia instead of the ‘ commercial sesquicarbonate,’ the process suc- ceeds admirably, and the resulting bread is most wholesome. A late writer recommends the use of bicarbonate of ammonia, but evi- dently does so in ignorance, as in practice it is inapplicable, as we have verified by numerous carefully conducted experiments. 7. It has been at various times proposed to knead the dough with water highly charged with carbonic acid ; on which Dr. Ure observes, that “ the resulting bread will be somewhat spongy,” We have repeatedly endeavoured to make bread in this way, but never could suc- ceed in producing a light spongy loaf. The quantity of gas in the water is much too