458 CLYSTERS—COBALT.- brighten their colour, after which they are mixed up with fresh spice for sale. Mother of Cloves. The unripe fruit of the clove tree; they are frequently imported pre- served (PEESEEVED MOTHEE OP CLOVES), and are reputed stomachic and antispasmodic. Oil of Cloves. Syn. O'letjm caeyoph'tlli (Ph. L.), L. This possesses similar virtues to the unexpanded flower-buds, and is esteemed as a remedy for the toothache. Used to fla- vour liqueurs and confectionery. CLYS'TERS. See Enemas. COAL. The varieties of this valuable sub- stance may be conveniently described under the three heads Antheacite, Lignite, and Pit-coal (which see). See also Euel. CO'BALT. Syn. Reg'ulus op cobalt; Co- balt'um, L. a metal discovered by Brandt, in 1733. It generally occurs in the same ore as NICKEL, and the separation of the two metals is a task requiring great patience and expertness. Speiss cobalt and cobalt glance are the ores from which the metal is commonly extracted. Prep. 1. Dissolve oxide of cobalt in hydro- chloric acid, and pass sulphuretted hydrogen gas through the solution, until all the arsenic is thrown down; filter, and boil with a little nitric acid, then add carbonate of potassa, in excess, and digest the precipitate in a solution of oxalic acid, to remove any oxide of iron; wash and dry the residuum {oxalate of cobalt), and expose it to great heat, in a covered cru- cible lined with charcoal; the product is pure metallic cobalt. 2. Mix equal parts of oxide of cobalt or roasted Cornish cobalt ore, and soft soap, and expose them to a violent heat in a covered crucible. 3. Pass hydrogen gas over oxide of cobalt strongly heated in a porcelain tube. Prop., Uses, Sfc. Cobalt is a white, brittle metal; unchanged in the air; feebly acted on by dilute hydrochloric and sulphuric acids ; has a high melting point, and is strongly mag- netic ; sp. gr., 8*5. It is seldom employed in the metallic state, from the great difficulty of reducing its ores, but its oxide {black oxide) is largely employed in the arts. It forms salts with the acids, which are interesting from the remarkable changes of colour which they exhibit. See Ink, Smalt, Zappee, and below. Char., Tests. Solutions of the salts of cobalt are known as follows:—1. Liquor of ammonia gives a blue precipitate, slightly soluble in ex- cess, giving a brownish-red colour.—2. Liquor of potassa gives a blue precipitate, turning to violet and red when the liquor is heated.— 3. Carbonate of ammonia and carbonate of soda give a pink precipitate; that from the former is soluble in excess.—4. Cyanide of potassium gives a yellowish-brown precipitate, soluble in excess; and the clear solution, after being boiled, is unaflected when mixed with hydrochloric acid.—5. Sulphuretted hydrogen produces no change in acid solutions.—6. Hy- drosulphuret of ammonia gives a black preci- j pitate in neutral solutions.—7. Melted with i borax, before the blowpipe, it gives a head of * a magnificent blue colour, almost verging on \ black, if much is present. Phosphate of soda * and ammonia give a similar bead; but the | colour is less intense. | Ac'etate of Cobalt. Prep. From the car- bonate or hydrated oxide and acetic acid. It I forms a sympathetic ink which turns blue when heated. , Car'bonate of Cobalt. Prep. By adding an alkaline carbonate to a solution of the nitrate or sulphate. A pale peach-coloured powder, soluble in acids. It contains some hydrated oxide. Chlo"ride of Cobalt. Syn. Hydeochlo"- EATE OP c., Mu^eiate OP c. Prep. By dis- solving the carbonate or hydrated oxide in hydrochloric acid; the solution deposits deep rose-red crystals on standing, which contain water. By evaporating the solution by heat, anhydrous blue crystals of the chloride are obtained. Both of them yield a deep rose- red solution with water, which is turned green by a little acid. This solution forms a well- known SYMPATHETIC INK, the traces of which become blue when heated. If the solution contains either chloride of iron or chloride of nickel, the traces become green. (Klaproth.) | The addition of a little nitrate of copper to the above solution forms a sympathetic ink, which by heat gives a very rich greenish-yellow j colour. (Ure.) The addition of a very little common salt makes the traces disappear with | greater rapidity, on the withdrawal of the heat. In each case, when the paper is laid aside, moisture is absorbed, and the writing once more disappears. If, however, much heat has been use^ the traces become perma- nent. Ni'trate of Cobalt. Prep. As the last, ijj substituting nitric for hydrochloric acid ; it forms deliquescent crystals. Ox'alate of Cobalt. Prep. As the acetate, from oxalic acid and the carbonate or hydrated oxide; or by double decomposition. Ox'ides of Cobalt. Of these there are two, the protoxide and the sesquioxide; besides an acid compound of cobalt and oxygen, to which the name cobaltic acid has been given. This acid has only been obtained combined with potassa. 1. Protoxide of Cobalt. Syn. Oxide op co- balt, Oeay o. op c.. Black o. op c.. Cobalt BLACK. Prep. 1. By precipitating a solu- tion of sulphate or chloride of cobalt with carbonate of soda, and washing, drying, and igniting the powder which subsides. 2. By boiling powdered bright-white cobalt ore (from Cornwall) in dilute nitric acid, and adding a solution of carbonate of potassa, very gradually, until the clear liquor, after the impurities have settled, becomes of a rose colour; and then as long as a precipitate falls; wash and dry it, as before.