824 LEAD. be examined by the usual tests.—3. Solutions of the salts of lead may be recognised by their behaviour with the following reagents:—a. Sulphuretted hydrogen, hydrosulphuret of am- monia, and the alkaline sulphurets, give black precipitates, insoluble in the cold dilute acids, alkalies, alkaline sulphurets, and cyanide of potassium.—b. Caustic potassa and soda give a white precipitate, soluble in excess.—c. Am- monia (except with the acetate) gives a white precipitate, insoluble in excess.—d. The car- bonates of potassa, soda, and ammonia, give a white precipitate, insoluble in excess.—e. Dilute sulphuric acid (in excess), and solutions of the sulphates give a white precipitate, sparingly soluble in dilute acids, but soluble in solution of potassa.—;/’. Chromate of potassa gives a yel- low precipitate, insoluble in dilute nitric acid, and soluble in solution of potassa.—g. Iodide of potassium gives a yellow precipitate, soluble in great excess by heat, and separating in small, brilliant, golden-yellow scales, as the liquid cools.—h. A piece of polished zinc pre- cipitates metallic lead in an arborescent form, hence called the ‘ lead tree.’—Obs. A solid supposed to contain lead should be digested in nitric acid, when the solution, evaporated to dryness, and redissolved in water, may be tested as above. Estim. This has been already referred to under previous heads.^ The ores of lead (ga- lena) may be digested in nitric acid, when the solution may be treated with sulphuric acid, and the lead estimated from the weight of the precipitated ‘ sulphate.’^ This is called an assay in the ‘ wet way* The method adopted by practical mineralogists is an assay in the ‘dry way’ and is conducted as follows:— a. A small but powerful air-furnace, charged with coke, is brought to as high a tempera- ture as possible, and a conical wrought-iron crucible plunged into the midst of it; as soon as the crucible has attained a dull-red heat, 1000 gr. of the galena, reduced to powder, are thrown into it, and stirred gently with a long piece of stiff iron wire flattened at the one end, in order to expose as large a surface of the powdered ore to the air as possible, observing now and then to withdraw the wire, to prevent it becoming red-hot, in which case some of the ore would permanently adhere to it, and be reduced before the intended time; the roasting is completed in 3 or 4 minutes, and any portion of the ore adhering to the stirrer being detaching by a knife, and re- turned into the crucible, the latter is covered up, and allowed to attain a full cherry-red heat, when about 2 to 3 spoonfuls of redticing flux are added, and the whole brought to a full white heat; in 12 to 15 minutes, the portion of metal and scoria adhering to the sides of the crucible are scraped down into the melted mass with a small stick of moist green wood, after which the crucible is again 1 See Brass and German Silver. * See 686. I covered, and the heat urged for 2 or 3 minutes longer, so as to keep the mass in a perfectly liquid state during the whole time; the crucible i is then removed from the fire with the ‘ crucible- ( tongs’ and adroitly ‘tilted’ so as to discharge i its contents into a small ingot-mould of brass, ^ observing to rake the scoria from the surface m to the sides of the crucible, so as to allow the molten lead to be poured out without it; the ; scoria is then reheated in the crucible with i about i spoonful of fux, and after being cleansed with a piece of green wood, as before, n is at once poured into a second mould, which i is instantly inverted; the little button of lead t thus obtained is added to the lead in the other t mould, and the whole is accurately weighed. 4 The weight, divided by 10, gives the per- f centage of lead (including silver, if present) a in the ore examined. f b. One half of the lead thus obtained is put i into a dry cupel of bone ash, and placed in the cupelling furnace, and treated as described in the article on Assaying ; the metallic button left on the cupel is then detached and weighed. The weight, divided by 5, gives the per-centage of PURE SILVER. Obs. The flux commonly employed in the above assay is composed of red argol, 6 parts; nitre, 4 parts; borax, 2 parts; fluor spar, 1 part; well pulverized and thoroughly mixed together. When the ore is very refractory, about a spoonful of carbonate of potassa should be added for each 1000 grains of ore, in which case the roasting may then be dispensed with. The quantity of silver in ‘ argentiferous galena’ varies from to ^ part of the whole. When- ever this ore contains above 2 parts of silver in the 1000, it is found to be profitable to ex- tract the latter. Uses. The uses of lead in the arts are well known. It enters into the composition of ' many important alloys (pewter, type-metal, ' SHOT-METAL, SOLDER, &c.), it fumishes us with several valuable pigments (chrome YELLOW, &c.), and it is extensively used in dyeing. Some of its preparations are em- ployed in medicine. Ant., 8fc. Administer an emetic of sulphate of zinc or sulphate of copper, and, if necessary, tickle the fauces with the finger or a feather, to induce vomiting. Should this not succeed, the stomach-pump may be had recourse to. Epsom or Glauber’s salts, or alum, dissolved in water, or water acidulated with sulphuric acid, follow^ed by tea, water gruel, or barley water, are the proper antidotes, and should be taken as soon after the poison has been swallowed as possible. In poisoning by white lead. Dr. Alfred Taylor recommends the administration of a mixture of sulphate of magnesia and vine- gar, as preferable to the sulphate alone. When the symptoms are those of painter’s colic, the treatment recommended under that head should be adopted.^ In paralysis arising from lead, small doses of strychnine, brucine, and their 3 See466.