1015 ORGANIC BASES—ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. I h. (Liebig.) Into a crucible containing com- j ercial cyanide of potassium, a weighed quan- \ty of tlie ore, in the state of fine powder, is crinkled, when the metallic oxides and sul- \hurets which it contains are almost imme- ilately reduced to the metallic state, and may 3 separated from the scoria by edulcoration ith water. With the oxides and siiLPnu- ETS OF ANTIMONY and TIN, this reduction :curs at a dull red heat; with the compounds |f COFFEE, it occurs with the disengagement |f light and heat; hut an ore of ieon requires ) be mixed with a little carbonate of potassa T of soda before throwing it into the fused tyanide, and to be then submitted to a full jd heat for a short time, before it is reduced a the reguline state. In this case any man- ANESE present in the ore of iron is left under (lie form of protoxide. A mixture of about Iqual parts of dry carbonate of soda and cyan- ie of potassium answers better for the crucible lian the cyanide alone. See Alloys, Metal- IJEOY, &c. ORGANIC BA''SES. These interesting bodies lay be divided into two classes: the first corn- rising those which occur ready formed in na- ure (alkaloids) ; and the second, those pro- uced by artificial processes in the laboratory XETIFICIAL ALKALOIDS, AETIFICIAL OEGANIC lASEs). They all contain the element niteo- lEN. The natural bases have already been de- cribed under alkaloid (which see). The tases of artificial origin are mostly volatile, nd their constitution is much simpler than hat of the native bases. Of the vast num- >er which have been formed, the following are, lerhaps, the most interesting :—Ethylamine, ilETHYLAMINE, AMYLAMINE, ANILINE, NAFH- j.’HYLAMiNE, CRINOLINE, and FicoLiNE. These irid other bodies of the class are noticed under heir respective heads. ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. We have re- j;erved a notice of the methods of estimating lie quantity of caebon, hydeogen, oxygen, ind NITEOGEN, in organic compounds, until low, in order to present them to the reader in i more useful and connected form. The ope- ration essentially consists, in respect of the irst three, in causing the complete combustion )f a known quantity of the substance under jxamination, in such a manner that the cae- RONic ACID and WATEE thus produced shall be collected, and their quantity determined. From these the proportions of their elements are easily calculated. The estimation of the quantity of niteogen (as is also the case with ciiLOEiNE, FiiospnoRUS, SULEHRE, &c.) re- quires a separate operation. The two great classes of organic bodies (azotized and non- azotized) are readily distinguished from each other by heating a small portion with some solid hydrate of potassa, in a test tube. If nitrogen is present, it is converted into am- monia, which may be recognised by its cha- racteristic odour and its alkaline reaction. 1. Estimation of the caebon, rydeogen, and OXYGEN.—a. The method of Prof. Liebig, now almost exclusively adopted for this pur- pose, is as follows:—The substance under ex- amination, reduced to powder, is rendered as dry as possible, either by the heat of a water bath or by exposure over concentrated sulphuric acid, in vacuo / 5 or 6 gr. of it are then weighed in a narrow open test tube, 2 or 3 inches long, and to ensure accuracy this tube and any little adhering matter is again weighed after its contents have been removed—the difference between the two weightshfivo^ regarded as the true quantity of the substance employed in the experiment. A ‘ combustion tube,’ of hard white Bohemian glass ("4 to ‘5 inch diam. ; 14 to 18 inches long), is next taken, and about 2-3rds filled with protoxide of copper^ prepared by the ignition of the nitrate, and which has been just reheated to expel hygrometric mois- ture. Nearly the whole of thi^ oxide, whilst still warm, is then gradually poured from the tube and triturated with the organic sample in a dry and warm mortar, after which the mix- ^ ture is transferred to the|combustion tube, and the mortar being rinsed out with a little fresh protoxide, which is added to the rest, the tube is, lastly, nearly filled with some warm prot- oxide fresh from the crucible. The contents of the tube are next arranged in a proper po- sition by a few gentle blows, so as to leave a small passage for the evolved gases from the one end of the tube to the other. (See ew^r.) The ' combustion tube’ with its ‘ charge' is next placed in a ‘furnace’ or ^ chauffer’ of thin sheet iron, similar to that figured at page 717. Its open end is then connected with a ‘ drying tube’ filled ynx’Cci fragments of fused chloride of calcium, and carefully weighed. This tube is, in its turn, con- nected with a small glass ‘ bulb apparatus’ containing solution of qjure potassa of the sp. gr. 1’27, also carefully weighed. Thejunction with first is made by means of a perforated cork; that with the second, by means of a small tube of India rubber tied with silk, the whole being made quite air-tight. The apparatus is then tested by sucking a few bub- bles through the liquid with the dry lips, when, if the level of the solution of potassa in the two legs continues unequal for some mi- nutes, the joints are regarded as perfect. The whole arrangement being complete (see engr.), burning charcoal is now placed in the furnace, around the front part of the combustion tube.