PETROLEUM—PHLORIDZIN. 1054 penetrating odour, and a high boiling-point; is lighter than water, and is isomeric with the oils of turpentine and lemons. In its general properties, it resembles rectified mineral naph- tha. PETRO'LEUM. Syn. Rock oil. Liquid BITUMEN, Oil oe petee; Oleum peteje. Bitumen liquidum, L. Under this name are commonly included all those native hydro- carbons which are darker and more unctuous and consistent than naphtha, but still liquid. These substances vary in their boiling-points, from about 180° to 600° Pahr. One of them (Baebadoes tae) is officinal in the Ph. L. 1851. Another, known under the names of Rangoon tae, R. peteoleum, and Buemese NAPHTHA, is largely employed by Pricers Patent Candle Company, as a source of buen- ING and LUBEICATING OILS and of a beautiful variety of paeaffin. The most important description of petroleum is that imported from Canada, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and other parts of the North American Continent. This has of late years become a most important article of commerce, and its use as an illuminating agent is rapidly extending.^ See Naphtha, Oils (Mineral), &c. PEW'TER. This is an alloy of tin and lead, or of tin with antimony and copper. The first only is properly called pewter. Three varieties are known in trade:— Prep. 1. (Plate Pewtee.) From^m, 89g; antimony, 7g,* bismuth and copper, of each, 2g; fused together. Used to make plates, teapots, &c. Takes a fine polish. 2. (Teifle Pewtee.) From tin, 79g; anti- mony, 15g; lead, 6§; as the last. Used for minor articles, syringes, toys, &c. 3. (Ley Pewtee.) From tin, 80g; lead, 20g. Used for measures, inkstands, Ac. Obs. According to the report of the French commission, pewter containing more than 18 parts of lead to 82 parts of tin is unsafe for measures for wine, and similar liquors and, in- deed, for any other utensils exposed to contact with our food or beverages. The legal sp. gr. of pewter in France is 7*764 ; if it be greater, it contains an excess of lead, and is liable to prove poisonous. The proportions of these metals may be approximately determined from the sp. gr.; but correctly, only by an assay for the purpose. See Beass, Geeman Silvee, Lead, and Tin. PHENAM'YIOL. An unimportant phenyl- compound. PHE'NETOL. A compound of the phenyl- series, possessing no practical interest. PHE'NOL. See Caebolic Acid. PHE'NYL. The hypothetical compound radical of the phentl-seeies. Caebolic ACID is said to be its hydrated oxide. A chloride of phenyl has been produced. PHENYL'AMINE. Aniline is sometimes so 1 See Dr. Marcet’s paper on Petroleum, in “Joxirn. of the Soe. of Arts," Pebrnary 26, 1864. | named on account of its relation to the phenyl series. PHILO'NIUM. The ancient name of ai aromatic opiate, reputed to possess many vir tues, invented by Philo. See Confection o: Opium. PHILOS'OPHER’S STONE. Syn. Lapi PHiLOSOPHOEUM, L. A wonderful substance the discovery’- of which formed the day dream of the alchemists. It was supposed to be ca pable of converting all the baser metals int; gold, and of curing all diseases. Some of th( alchemists appear to have laboured under thi delusion that they had actually discovered it The last of these enthusiasts was the talente( and unfortunate Dr. Price, of Guildford. Speak ing of the age of alchemy, Liebig says:—“ Thi idea of the transmutability of metals stood ii the most perfect harmony with all the observa tions and all the knowledge of that age, am in contradiction to none of these. In the firs stage of the development of science, the alche mists could not possibly have any other notion of the nature of metals than those which they actually held. . . . We hear it said thai the idea of the philosopher’s stone was ai error; but all our views have been developec from errors, and that which to-day we regart as truth in chemistry may’-, perhaps, before to morrow, be regarded as a fallacy.” PHILOSOPHIC CANDLE. An inflamed jel of hydrogen gas. PHILOSOPHIC WOOL. Flowers of zinc. PHILTRE. Syn. Philteum, L. A charn or potion to excite love. The ancients hac great faith in such remedies. Nothing certair-^ is now known respecting their composition/ but there is sufficient evidence that recourse' was frequently had to them by the ancients and that “ their operation was so violent tha many persons lost their lives and their reasoi by their means.” The Thessalian philtre were those most celebrated. (Juv., vi, 610 &c.) At the present day the administration o preparations of the kind is interdicted by law PHLORETIC ACID. A beautifully crys talline acid, obtained when phloridzin is fuse( with hydrate of potassa. It is homologous t( salicylic and anisic acids. PHLORE'TIN. A crystallizable, sweet suh stance, formed along with grape sugar, whei phloridzin is acted on by dilute acids. PHLORID'ZIN. Syn. Phloeizine; Phlo EIDZINUM, L. Prep. By acting on the frest root-bark of the apple, pear, ov plum tree, witl boiling rectified spirit; the spirit is distillew off, and the jjhloridzin crystallizes out of thl| residual liquor as it cools. Prop., Sfc. Fine, colourless, silky needles freely soluble in rectified spirit and in ho water, but requiring 1000 parts of cold watei for its solution; its taste is bitter and astrin gent. When its solution is boiled with h little dilute sulphuric acid or hydrochlorljj acid, it is changed into geape sugae an(| phloeetin.