LIQUEUR. 846 ignorant and lazy workmen, for the sake of lessening the labour, is, of course, even more destructive to their most valuable qualities than mere exposure to the air. The length of time the ingredients should be digested in the spirit should never be less than 5 or 6 days, but a longer period is preferable when distil- lation is not employed. In either case the time may be advantageously extended to 10 days or a fortnight, and frequent agitation should be had recourse to during the whole period. When essential oils are employed to convey the flavour, they are first dissolved in a little of the strongest rectified spirit of wine, in the manner explained under ‘Essence^; and when added to the spirit, they are mixed up with the whole mass as rapidly and as per- fectly as possible, by laborious and long-con- tinued agitation (‘ rummaging ’). In managing the still, the fire is proportioned to the pon- derosity of the oil or flavouring substance, and the receiver is changed before the faints come over; as these are unfitted to be mixed with the cordial. In many cases the addition of a few pounds of common salt to the liquor in the still facilitates the process and improves the product. Ingredients which are not volatile are, of course, always added after dis- tillation. The stronger spirit is reduced to the desired strength by means of either clear soft water or the clarified syrup used for sweetening. The sugar employed should be of the finest quality, and is preferably made into capillaire or sxjrup before adding it to the aromatized spirit; and not until this last has been rendered perfectly ‘ fine' or transparent, by filtration or clarification, as the case may demand. Some spirits or infusions, as those of aniseed, caraway, &c., more particularly require this treatment, which is best performed by running them through a clean wine hag, made of rather fine cloth, having previously mixed them with a spoonful or two of mag- nesia ; but in all cases clarification by simple repose should be preferred, and first attempted. Under proper management, liqueurs or cordials prepared of good materials will be found per- fectly ‘clear' or ‘bright' as soon as made, or will become so after being allowed a few days for defecation; but in the hands of the inex- perienced operator, and when the spirit em- ployed is insufiicient in strength or quantity, it often happens that they turn out ‘ foul' or ‘milky.' When this is the case, the liquid may be ‘ fined down' with the whites of 12 to 20 eggs per hogshead; or a little alum, either alone or followed by a little carbonate of soda or potassa, both dissolved in water, may be added, in the inanner described under Finings. An excellent and easy way of manufacturing cordial liquors, especially when it is inconve- nient to keep a large stock on hand, is by simply ‘ aromatizing’ and ‘ colouring,' as cir- cumstances or business may deinand, spirit 60 or 64 u. p., kept ready sweetened for the pur- pose. To do this to the best advantage, two descriptions of sweetened spirit should be pro- vided, containing respectively 1 lb. and 3 lb. of sugar to the gallon. From these, spirit of any intermediate sweetness may be made, which may be flavoured with any essential oil dissolved in alcohol, or any aromatized spirit or ‘ infusion’ (see belorv), prepared either by di- gestion or distillation. As a general rule, the concentrated essences, made by dissolving 1 oz. of the essential oil in 1 pint of the strongest rectified spirit of wine, will be found admirably adapted for this purpose. These essences, which should be kept in well-corked bottles, are employed by dropping them cautiously into the sweetened spirit until the desired fla- vour is produced. During this operation, the liquor should be frequently and violently shaken to produce complete admixture. If by any accident the essence is added in too large a quantity, the resulting ‘milkiness’ or excess of flavour may be removed by the ad- dition of a little more spirit, or by clarifica- tion. In this way the majority of the li- QUEims in common use may be produced ex- temporaneously, of nearly equal quality to those prepared by distillation. For those which are coloured, simple digestion of the ingredients is almost universally adopted. The “ process by distillation" should, however, be always employed to impart the flavour and aroma of volatile aromatics to the spirit, when expense, labour, and time, are of less import- ance than the production of a superior ar- ticle. The French liquoristes are famed for the pre- paration of cordials of superior quality, cream- , like smoothness, and delicate flavour. Their success chiefly arises from the employment ofW very pure spirit and sugar (the former in a* larger proportion than that adopted by the English compounder), and in the judicious application of the flavouring ingredients. The French liquoristes distinguish their cordials as ‘ EAUX' and ‘ exteaits' (waters, extracts), or liqueurs which, though sweetened, are en- tirely devoid of viscidity; and ‘ baemes,’ ‘ ceemes,' and ‘ heiles' (balms, creams, oils), which contain sufficient sugar to impart to them a syrupy consistence. The greatest pos- sible attention is given to the preparation of the aromatized or flavouring essences, in France called ‘ INEESIONS.’ These are generally made by macerating the aromatic ingredients in spirit at about 2 to 4 u. p. (sp. gr. ’922 to •925), placed in well-corked glass carboys, or stoneware jars or bottles. The maceration is continued, with occasional agitation, for 3, 4, or even 5 weeks, when the aromatized spirit is either distilled or filtered; generally the former. The outer peel of cedrats, lemons, oranges, limettes, bergamottes, &c., is alone used by our Continental neighbours, and is obtained either by carefully peeling the fruit with a knife, or by ‘ oleosaccharum,’ by rubbing it oiF with a lump of hard white sugar. Aro- matic seeds and woods are bruised by pound-