SELENIC ACID—SENNA. 1192 other plants, dispersed through every class, order, and family, yield their treasures of oil, medicinals, or perfumes, for his use. SELENIC ACID. Syn. Acidtjm seleni- CUM, L. Prep. By fusing selenium with nitrate of potassa or of soda, acting on the fused mass with water, precipitating the re- sulting solution with acetate or nitrate of lead, and decomposing the precipitate (selenate OP lead), diffused in water, with sulphuretted hydrogen. The selenic acid, thus obtained, may be cautiously concentrated in a glass ves- sel, if necessary; but if this be pushed too far, it is resolved into selenious acid and oxygen. Prop., ^c. Hydrated selenic acid is a colour- less liquid, closely resembling sulphuric add; its salts (SELENATES) bear the closest analogy to the sulphates. SELE'NIOUS ACID. Syn. Selenous acid. Prep. By digesting selenium in aqua regia or nitric acid, and evaporating the solution to dryness. It is a white substance; it may be sublimed unchanged, is soluble in water and alcohol, and forms salts with the bases, termed SELENITES. SELE'NIUM. A rare chemical element, dis- covered by Berzelius in 1818. Prep. (Magnus.) A mixture of native sul- phuret of selenium, 1 part, and binoxide of manganese, 8 parts, is exposed to a low red heat in a glass retort, the beak of which dips into water; the product, after being washed in water, may be purified by resubli- mation. Prop., S(‘c. A brittle, opaque, dark reddish- brown substance, having somewhat the ap- pearance of lead when in mass, but with only a semi-metallic lustre, and forming a deep red powder; sp. gr. 4'30 to 4*32; it softens at 212°, fuses at 220°, and boils at 650° Fahr.; when heated in the air, it exhales a peculiar odour, which has been compared to that from rotten horseradish. With the metals it forms com- pounds called SELENIUEETS, or SELENIDES, which closely resemble the corresponding sul- phurets.—Oxide of selenium is a neutral, gaseous substance, obtained by heating sele- nium in a vessel of air, and washing the product with water.—Sulphueet and phos- PHUEET OF SELENIUM are made by simply fusing their elements together. See Hydeo- GEN (Seleniuretted). SELENOCYAN'OGEN. A salt-radicle con- taining SELENIUM, analogous to sulpho- CYANOGEN. The SELENOCYANIDES which have been studied by Mr. Crookes correspond to the SULPHOCYANIDES. SEM'OLA (Bullock’s). Wheaten flour, to which some of the gluten of the starch-works has been added, artificially granulated. SEMOLINA. Syn. S^moule, Semoulina. The large hard grains of wheat flour retained in the bolting machine, after the fine fiour has passed through its meshes. “ The best semoule is obtained from the wheat of the southern parts of Europe. With the semou the fine white Parisian bread called ‘ yruau’ baked.” (Ure.) SENNOA. Syn. Seneka, Snake eo(, Rattlesnake e. ; Senega (Ph. L. E. & L Radix SENEGiE, L. “ The root of Poiygi Senega, Linn.” (Ph. L.) A stimulating d'^ phoretic, and expectorant; in large dos diuretic, cathartic, and emetic. In America is used as an antidote to the bite of the rii tlesnake. Drs. Chapman and Hartshorne exi it as an emmenagogue. Dr. Pereira says th: it is an exceedingly valuable remedy in t latter stages of bronchial or pulmonary j| fiammation, when this disease occurs in agd debilitated, or torpid constitutions. Bose. to 30 gr., in powder or decoction (con bined with aromatics, opium, or campho thrice daily. SEN'EGIN. Syn. Polygalin, Polygai ACID. A white odourless powder, discovei by Gehlin in the bark of seneka root {Polygi Senega). It is obtained by exhausting t bruised root-barJc with rectified spirit, evaj rating the resulting tincture to a syrupy C( sistence, and then strongly agitating it wii ether; after repose for some time, cryst; are deposited, which may be purified in t usual manner. Obs. Senegin is a powerful errhine and aci. poison. It is volatile, and soluble in bo. water and alcohol. According to Gehlin, possesses acid properties. SENNA. Syn. Senna, Senn.e folu. There are three principal varieties:— 1. Alexandeian senna (senna Alexa DEINA—Ph. L. E. & D.), referred in the Ph. . to Cassia officinalis and Cassia obovata, in t Ph. D. to Cassia acutifolia (Delile), and in t' Ph. E. to various species of Cassia. T leaves are “ unequal at the base, ovate acu or obovate mucronate.” (Ph. L.) It is goi rally mixed with the leaves of Solenosteno Argel (argel leaves), the presence of which often the occasion of much griping. T leaf of argel is fully an inch long, war regular in its formation, and the lateral ner\ are imperfectly seen on the under sid whilst that of the true Alexandrian sen never exceeds f inch in length, is obliqi- and the nerves on the under side are v€. conspicuous. 2. Indian senna (senna Indica—Ph. & E.) is referred to Cassia officinalis in t Ph. L., and in the Ph. E. & D. to Cas elongata (Lemaire, Lisancourt). The leaf “unequal at the base,” and “lanceolati: (Ph. L.) 3. Tinnevelly senna, forming the fin Indian, now introduced into the Ph. D., therein described as composed of the leafl of Cassia oblongata. These are pale gre' thin, fiexible, and from 1 to 2 inches loi and nearly ^ inch broad. This variety equal in medicinal virtue to the best Ah andrian, and is to be preferred, on accoVj