1136 POWDERS. EFFERTESCENTES CTJM ZINGIBERE, L. Prep. | 1. Powdered white sugar, 1 to 2 dr.; Mcar-1 bonate of soda, 26 gr.; finest powdered Jamaica ginger, 6 gr.; essence of lemon, 1 drop ; mix, and wrap it in blue paper. In the white PAPER put of powdered tartaric acid, 35 gr., or oipowdered citric acid, 30 gr. 2. Finest Jamaica ginger, 1 dr.; bicarbonate of soda, ^ (h'.', white 16 dr.; essence of lemon, 6 or 8 drops; mix, and divide it between j 12 papers {blue). For the lohite papers, divide tartaric acid, 6 dr., in the same way. By | taking the drachms as ounces, the quantity will be sufficient for 8 dozen. For use, dissolve one of each colour separately in somewhat less than half a glass of water, mix the two, and drink the mixture whilst effervescing. 3. {In one bottle.)—a. The sugar and the saline ingredients are separately dried by a very gentle heat, then mixed in a dry room with the ginger and essence of lemon, and at once put into bottles. b. By adding to the * acidulated kali,' noticed at page 809, about l-16th of its weight of the finest powdered Jamaica ginger {i. e. ^ dr. to each oz.; 1 oz. to each lb.) at the time of mixing the ingredients together. A dessert- spoonful, thrown into a tumbler two thirds filled with cold water, produces an excellent glass of ginger beer. Ink Powders. The article usually sold under this name is noticed at page 782. Another formula, which we have adopted with con- siderable success, is as follows:—Good black ink, 3 pints, lump sugar, oz., and gum arabic, ^ oz:, are put into a clean iron pan, and evaporated by the heat of boiling water, with occasional stirring, to dryness; the dried mass is reduced to powder, and divided into 12 parts, which are enveloped in either tin- foil or glazed paper, and kept dry. One of these papers dissolved in i pint of hot water forms that quantity of an excellent black ink, without sediment, and which answers well with the copying press. Lem'onade Powders. Syn. Lehon sherbet ; LiMONADHM SICCHM, PuLTIS pro LIMOIS’AHO, L. Prep. 1. Powdered citric or tartaric acid, 12 gr.; powdered white sugar, ^ oz.; essence of lemon, 1 drop (or a little of the yellow peel of a lemon rubbed off on a piece of sugar); mix. For one glass. 2. White sugar, 4 lb.; citric or tartaric acid, 1^ oz.; essence of lemon, 5 oz.; mix well, and preserve it in a bottle for use. 1 to 2 dessert-spoonfuls make a glass of lemonade. It is also put up in papers, containing about 2j dr. each. 3. (Effervescing.)—a. For the blue pap>ers, take of powdered white sugar, 1 lb.; bicar- bonate of soda, i lb. ; essence of lemon, 1^ di*.; mix, and divide it between 6 dozen j>apers. Next divide tartaric or citric acid, 5 oz., be- tween 6 dozen white papers. Or the two may be kept in bulk, in separate bottles. b. {In one bottle.) As ‘ acidelated kali’ {page 809). Some makers slightly increai the quantities of acid and essence of lemt, there ordered. Perishing Powders. Prep. 1. (For bra: and COPPER.)—a. From rotten stone, 3 oz potvdered soap, 1 oz. b. From rotten stone, 7 oz.; powdered oxal acid, 1 oz. Both are used with a little wate See Brass Paste. 2. (For GOLD.) Jeweller’s rouge. S Sesquioxide of Iron {page 796). 3. (For ivory.) Pumice stone and puti powder. 4. (For PLATE.) See Plate and Plaj Powder. 5. (For silver.) As the last. Scent'ed Powders. Prep. 1. Cosmetic poi DERS.—a. (POEDRE DE CHIPRE.) Macera oak moss in running loater for 2 or 3 daj then dry, and powder it. Used as a basis t other powders, on account of its being high retentive of odours. Reindeer moss and ragg hoary evernia are also used for the same pr pose. See Cypres Powder {above). b. (PoEDRE DE CHIPRE DE MoNTPELIEI From poudre de chipre, 2 lb.; musk, 30 gi civet, 20 gr.; (the last two powdered by mca of a little sugar ;) cloves, ^ oz. C. (POEDRE DE FLEERS D’ORANGES.) Fr( starch or Cyprus powder, 25 lb. ; orange fiowe 1 lb.; mixed in a covered chest, and stirr twice or thrice daily; the process being i peated, with fresh flowers, a second and third time. Or, the plain powder is scent by the addition of a little neroli or essence petit grain. d. (POEDRE DE FRANGIPANNI.) FrollljtW^ dre defleurs d'oranges and poudre de chipre, each, 6 lb.; essence of ambergris, 1 oz.; ci (powdered with sugar), ^ dr. Ash-gray ( lour. e. (POEDRE DE JASMINE.) As POEDEE FLEERS d’oranges, but using jasmin fiowen f. (POEDRE A LA MARECHALE.) FrOUlJOi: dre de chipre, 2 lb.; starch powder, 1 / Calamus aromaticus, cloves, and Cyperus rennis or rotundus, of each, 2 oz. Or, star powder, 28 lb.; powdered cloves, f lb. ; po dered orris root, ^ lb.; essence of amherg 2 dr. g. (POEDRE A LA MOESSELINE.) Fr orris root, 1 lb.; coriander seed, 6 oz.; m and violet ebony, of each, 2 oz. ; musk st cassia, cloves, and sandal wood, of each, 1 of h. (POEDRE DE JONQEILLE.) FrOin j quils, as POEDRE de jasmine. i. (PoEDRE A l’ceillet.) From plain p der, 2 lb. ; orris root and dried red rose lea^ of each, 1 lb.; cloves and musk seed, of eacl • oz.; essence of bergamot and essence de p' grain, of each, ^ dr. k. (POEDRE de roses COMMENES.) Fi i pale roses, as poedre de fleers d’orange l. (Poedre de roses mesqeees. Fii musk roses, as the last. m. (Poedre a la vanille.) From pou