522 DISTILLATION. a yellow colour of the skin, and a pustular eruption, are also bad symptoms. Distemper Powders (Blane’s). The basis of these is said to he ‘ aurum musivum,’ or bisulphuret of tin. That of another adver- tised nostrum is a mixture of mercury and chalk, with a little rhubarb and ipecacuanha. DISTILLA'TION. The evaporation and sub- sequent condensation of the vapour of fluids, by means of a still and refrigerator, or other similar apparatus. Dey distillation is a term appHed to the distillation of substances per se, or without the addition of water or other volatile fluid. Destefctiye distilla- tion is the distillation of substances at tem- paratures sufficiently high to decompose them, by which their elements are separated, or evolved in new combinations. Feactional DISTILLATION is the separation of substances having different boiling-points, by distilling the mixture with a gradually increasing heat, and collecting the products which come over at different temperatures in separate receivers. See Hydeocaebon, Still, &c. Distillation. The art of the distiller; the manufacture of spirituous liquors as practised on the large scale. The process of distillation, as carried on in the distilleries of Great Britain, may be divided into four general operations, viz.:—1. The mashing, or formation of a saccharine infusion from certain vegetable matters, as malt, barley, oats, rye, &c. 2. The cooling of this wDrt or liquor. 3. The fermentation, or process by which the sugar of the cooled wort is con- verted into alcohol. 4. The separation of the spirit so formed by means of a still and refrige- rator. By the first operation, the materials for the fonnation of the alcohol are obtained; by the second, they are brought to a tempera- ture most favorable to the transformation that takes place in the third, after which it only remains to free the product of the last opera- tion fi’om the foreign matter with which it is associated; this is done in the fourth, which, correctly speaking, constitutes the only part of the process which can be called distillation. The general principles of the first three of the preceding operations are noticed in the articles Beewing, Feementation, &c. It will there be seen, that the amylaceous or starchy matter of the grain is first ‘saccharified’ and afterwards converted into alcohol, and that certain precautions are necessary to render the process successful and economical. In many of the distilleries of Great Britain molasses and analogous saccharine substances are employed, in w'hich case the vegetable principle {sugar) essential to the formation of alcohol, is already present, and merely requires simple solution in water of a proper tempera- ture, to be ready to be subjected to imme- diate fermentation. In general, however, the sources of spirit in England are the various kinds of grain j barley and rye are those com- monly employed. These are ground and mixed with bruised malt, in various proportions, and | are mashed in a similar manner to malted i grain. The fermentation is carried on until < the density of the liquor ceases to lessen or > 'attenuate,’ which is determined by an in- |r strument called a saccharometer. When this i point is arrived at, the ‘wash’ is submitted to distillation, to prevent the access of the acetous fermentation, which would lessen its alcoholic value. During the process of distilling off the spirit of the fermented ‘wash’ or ‘wort,’ a hydro- meter is employed to ascertain the ‘ strength’ of the liquor that passes over. As soon as this has fallen to a certain point, the operation is stopped, and the ‘spent wash’ removed. The I spirits obtained by the first distillation are generally called ‘low wines’ and have a spe- cific gravity of about '975. By rectification or ‘ doubling,’ a crude milky spirit, abounding in oil, at first comes over, followed by clear spirit, ' which is received in a separate vessel. The process is continued until the alcoholic con- tent of the distilled liquor has considerably diminished, when the remaining weak spirit that distils over, called ‘faints’ is caught i separately, and mixed with the low wines, pre- ' paratory to another distillation. The strongest | spirit passes over first, and the condensed | liquor gradually becomes weaker, until it ceases I to contain alcohol. By receiving in separate vessels any given portion of the product, spirit of any required strength, within certain limits, may be obtained. The same object is more conveniently effected by surrounding the top of the capital of the still with a w'ater bath, of a temperature corresponding to that of alco- i holic vapour of the strength it is desired to obtain. Thus, if we keep the temperature of the water at about 198° Fahr., we shall obtain ,, i proof spirit; if at 192°, a spirit 20 o. p.; and ’ so on for other strengths. It is found from experience, and is readily accounted for hy theory, that the lower the temperature at which the distillation is con- ducted, the stronger will be the product, and the less quantity of oil or other volatile matter w’ill come over along wdth it. To promote this, it has been proposed to carry on the process in vacuo, but on the large scale this has never been adopted. The distillation of the wash is usually performed in a separate set of stills to those employed for the rectification of the low wines. For very strong and tasteless spirit, a third and even a fourth rectification is employed, conjointly with other methods to abstract the water, and to remove any foreign matter that vitiates its odour or flavour. A portion of soap is generally put into the still wdth the w^ash, to prevent excessive frothing. We have said that the processes of mashing, &c., in the distillery, are similar to those adopted in brewing beer. We may add, that as richness in alcohol, and not flavour, is the object aimed at in the distiller’s wash, not only is a large quaiitity of unmchlted grain em-