471 COMENIC ACID—CONFECTIOX. 1 titles by weight which combine occupy, under i similar circumstances of pressure and tempera- i ture, either equal volumes or volumes bearing ! a simple proportion to each other. This re- lation accounts for the law of combination BY VOLUME discovered by Gay-Lussac, and thus expressed:— / When gases combine, chemical union in- ^ variably takes place, either between equal 11 volumes or between volumes which bear a I simple relation to each other. Gerhardt assumes that equal volumes of the I elementary gases and vapours, when compared ! under similar conditions of pressure and tem- I perature, contain the same number of atoms. I See Afpinity, Atomic Theoey, Equiva- j LENTS, &C. 1 COME'NIC ACID. Prep. 1. By boiling an I aqueous, or better, a hydrochloric solution of I meconic acid, for some time; carbonic acid is I evolved, and on cooling the solution comenic I ACID crystallizes, being very difficultly soluble in cold water. 2. By exposing dry meconic acid, in a retort, I to a heat of 392° Fahr. Prop. It is bibasic; its salts are called comenates. By exposure to a high temperature it is converted into py- EOMECONIC ACID, wliicli sublimes and con- denses in brilliant, colourless plates. CONCENTRATION. The volatilization of part of a liquid in order to increase the strength of the remainder. The operation can only be performed on solutions of sub- stances of greater fixity than the menstrua in I which they are dissolved. Many of the liquid I acids, solutions of the alkalies, &c., are con- j centrated by distilling off their water. 1 In pharmacy, the term concenteated is i commonly applied to any liquid preparation ' possessing more than the usual strength. I Thus we have concentrated infusions, decoctions, liquors, solutions, tinctures, and essences, most I of which are made of 8 times the common I strength. This is generally effected by using i 8 times the usual quantity of the ingredients, I with a given portion of the menstruum, and I operating by digestion or percolation; the I latter being generally adopted when the ar- ' tides are bulky. When the menstruum is t water, a little spirit is added, to make the I product keep. See Decoction, Infusion, j &c. 1 CON'CRETE. A compact mass or cement, i composed of pebbles, lime, and sand, employed I in the foundations of buildings. The best i proportions have been said to be—60 parts of ' coarse pebbles, 25 of rough sand, and 15 of lime ; j but Semple recommends 80 parts of pebbles, \ 40 parts of river sand, and only 10 parts of lime. The pebbles for concrete should not ' exceed about ^ lb. each in weight. CON'DIMENTS. Substances taken with ' the food, to season or improve its flavour, or to render it more wholesome or digestible. I The principal condiments are common salt, ; VINEGAE, LEMON-JUICE, SFICES, AEOMATIC. HEEBS, OIL, BUTTEE, SUGAE, HONEY, and SAUCES. Most of these, in moderation, pro- mote the appetite and digestion, but their ex- cessive use tends to vitiate the gastric juice, and injure the stomach. CONFECTION. 8yn. Confectio, L. Any- thing prepared with sugar; a sweetmeat, or candy. In medicine, the name is commonly applied to substances, usually pulverulent, mixed up to the consistence of a soft electuary, with powdered sugar, syrup, or honey. In the ‘ London Pharmacopoeia* (1836 and 1851) both CONSEEVES and electuaeies are in- cluded under this head, though there appears to be some little distinction between them. In the preparation of confections all the dry ingredients should be reduced to very fine powder, and passed through a sieve, not coarser than 80 holes to the inch j and the pulps and syrups used to mix them up should be perfectly homogeneous, and of a proper consistence. The mixture should be intimate and complete, in order that the characteristic constituents may be equally distributed throughout the mass. The consistence of the newly made confection should be sufficiently solid to prevent a separation of the ingredients, and yet soft enough to allow of it being easily swallowed without previous mastication. Confections should be preserved in stone jars covered with writing paper, and placed in a cool and not too dry a situation. Without this precaution, they are apt to mould on the top. If at any time the mass ferments and swells up, the fermentative process may be ar- rested by placing the jar in a bath of boiling water, for an hour or two, or until the whole becomes pretty hot; when it should be re- moved from the heat, and stirred occasionally until cold. Should the sugar crystallize out of the confection, or ‘candy' as it is called, the same method may be followed. Or, the mass may be well rubbed in a mortar until the hard lumps of sugar are broken down, and a uniform consistence again produced. On the large scale it may be passed through the mill. As remedial agents, the officinal confections possess little value, and are chiefly useful as vehicles for the administration of more active medicines. See Conseeves and Electuaeies, Confection of A'corns. Syn. Confec'tio semTnum quee'cus, L. Prep. (Bories.) Powdered acorns, 3 oz.; red coral and catechu, of each, 1| oz.; confection of dog-rose, 10 oz.; syrup of red roses, q.s. to make a confection. Dose. 1 dr., every 4 hours; in chronic diarrhma, &c. Confection of ATmonds. Syn. Almond PASTE, CONSEEVE OF ALMONDS ; CoNFEC'TIO AMYG'DALiE (Pll. L.), CoNSEE'YA AMYGDALa". EUM (Ph. E.), Confec'tio amygdala"eum: (Ph. D. 1826), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Sweet almonds, 8 oz.; white sugar, 4 oz.; powdered gum arabic, 1 oz.; macerate the almonds in cold water, .then remove the &kins, and beat