181 ANTIMONIOUS ACID—ANTIMONY. I throws down from them antimoniate of soda. It is monobasic; and is isomeric wdth * metan- I timonic acid ^ (which see). ! Tests, estim, Sfc. It may be dissolved in ; hot concentrated hydrochloric acid, and then ! treated as a ‘ salt of antimony’ (vide infra). Uses, 8fc. In medicine, as an alterative, dia- I phoretic, &c.— Dose. 2 to 10 gr. It appears I almost iner,t, if not actually so, even in ^ oz. (?) I doses. (Wilson.) It is seldom used. See An- I TIMONT and \\,% preparations (below). ANTIM0"NI0US ACID (-mone'-y’iis). Syn. Deutox'ide of an'timoxy, Antimon'ic ox'- IDE, GeEY 0. OF A.*; ACIDUM ANTIMOXIO'SUM, Antimo"nii deftox'ydtjm, Antimo"nium ' OXYDA'TUM GRI"SEUM (Ph. Dan. 1840), L. j , Acide aktimonieex, &c., Fr.; Antimonige j SAURE, Ger. A compound of antimony and I oxygen intermediate between the basic oxide and antimonic acid, by some called the inter- j me"diate ox'ide, and by others, the perox'ide j OF ANTIMONY. Prep. 1. By exposing either pure metallic ' antimony, or its oxide or sulphuret, or antimonic 1 acid, for some time to a strong heat in an open i vessel. The product is anhy'drotjs a. a., and I is pure, when the ignition has been sufficiently I prolonged. I 2. From the so-called antimonite of an I alkali by adding an acid. { 3. (Ph. Dan. 1840.) Txe\\\ metallic antimony, I in coarse powder, 4 oz.; nitric acid, 8 oz.; ; (mixed with) water, 32 oz.; digested together at 140° Fahr. until nitrous fumes cease to be I evolved; the precipitate being collected, Avashed I with cold water, boiled for 30 minutes in water j holding ^ oz. of carbonate of soda in solution, : and again washed with water, and dried. The product is a mixture of teroxide of a. and ANTiMONioxJS ACID, and contains water of j hydration. For the preparation of the Ph. I Suec. (1845) wffiich passes under this name, see Glass of Antimony. Prop., fyc. A grayish white, infusible pow- I der, destitute of volatility, and insoluble in I either water or acids (except hydrochloric acid concentrated and hot) unless when recently I precipitated or prepared in the moist way; I digested with acids ‘ teroxide of antimony ’ is dissolved out, whilst alkalies remove ‘antimonic I acid ’—thus shewing its true composition to be a i mixture of teroxide of a. and antimonic acid ■ in equiv. proportions. Its salts, of which i little definite is known—if any true ones ac- I tually exist—are called an'timonites^ (Eng., j Fr.; antim'onis^, L. sing.). Antimonite of 1 lime is soluble in boiling water. 1 Tests, ^'C. See Antimonic acid and Anti- I MONY. ! Uses. It forms the characteristic ingredient I m James's fever-powder, and in the pulvis anti- I monialis of the pharmacopoeias. Like antimonic t acid, it is very inactive and uncertain in its I operation; probably owing to its insolubility ^ Ah'timonites'; or antimon'ites, as marked by Mayne. I * Antm'6nis,-ttis-~Hnyne-, but more U3., i I I in the juices of the stomach. See Powders, &c. ANTIMO"NIURET (-mone'-u-). Syn. An- timonidre'tdm (-i-u-), L.; Antimonixjre, Fr. An alloy or compound of metallic anti- mony. ANTIMO"NIURETTED. Syn. An'timo- NETTED; Antimonia'tus, L. Of the nature of an antimoniuret; combined with or con- taining antimony. See Hydrogen, &c. AN'TIMONY i^-te-mun-e). Metal'lic an- timony*, BeG'ULDS of A.f ; ANTIMO"NirM, A. metal'licdm, Stib'ium, Metal'lijm antimo"- Nllf, A. REG'ULDSf, &C., L.; ANTIMOINE, Fr.; Antimon, Spiessglanz, Spiessglas, Spiess- glanzmetall, Ger.; Antimonio, It., Sp. The term formerly applied to the native sul- phuret or grayish black semi-crystalline ore of antimony; but noAV solely appropriated to the pure metal. Hist., 8fc. The ores of antimony were early known and used for various purposes, particu- larly as cosmetics but metallic antimony, and the value of antimonial preparations as medicines, were first made known by Basil Valentine, a Benedictine monk, of Erfurd, in Germany, about a.d. 1410. In the “ Currus triumphalis Antimonii” of this writer, the lau- dations of these substances as medicines are extreme, and numerous processes are referred to for the production of the majority of those since used. Prior to this date antimonials were only employed in veterinary medicine. The correct derivation of the word antimony is probably from duri, against, and povog, alone; because it is usually found associated with other minerals. The common derivation of the word is, however, founded on a story, more fanciful than true, related by Furetiere, and followed by various authorities. It is that Basil Valentine, finding the pigs of his monas- tery fattened well after being purged with antimony, administered some to his brethren, with the charitable intention of giving them a plump appearance ; but the experiment was attended with fatal results. Hence it came to be called ‘ antimoine’ (Fr., ‘ anti-monk ’), which w'as gradually converted into antimony. The common sulphuret is even now often given by farriers and grooms to horses, to render their coats sleek, and to improve their condition. Sources. Metallic antimony, in combination with silver and iron (native antimony), with sulphur (gray sulphuret of a.), or with nickel (nickelif'erous sulphuret of a.), is found in Bohemia, Hungary, Germany, Sweden, France, England, Borneo, and America; and oxidised, combined with oxide of iron, &c. (antimo"nial o'chre, red antimony, white A.), forming ores, either small in quantity or of little value, in various parts of the world. Of these, the only one in sufficient abundance for smelting, is the common sulphuret, known as ‘ gray antimony’ or ‘ stibnite.’ 3 Vide 2 Kings, ix. 30; Jer., iv. 30; &c.