ABSOLUTE—ABSOEBENTS. 7 (see above) •, Weemtjth, Ger. The pharma- copoeial name of ^ common wormwood/ AB'SOLUTE. Syn. Absolu'ttjs, L. ; Absolu (-ue), Er.; Undebingt, Ger. Perfect in itself; complete; unlimited. In chemistry, pure, unmixed; as absolute alcohol, pure spirit quite free from water; huile absolue (Fr.), pure oleine. The term is of French origin. ABSOEBED' (-sorbd'). Syn. ChilledJ ; Absoebe, Fr. In painting, a term, among French connoisseurs, to represent that state of a picture in which the oil has sunk into the canvas or ground, leaving the colours ‘ flat,^ and the touches indistinct. The remedy con- sists in rubbing the surface of the picture, previously well cleaned, with a soft sponge dipped in a little drying oil, and after some days, varnishing it; when it should be kept in a warm room until perfectly dry. ABSORB'ENT. Syn. Absoeb'ens, L. ; Ab- SOEBANT, Fr.; Absoebieend, Ger. Imbibing ; that imbibes or takes up; in various applications in science and art., (See below.) Absorbent Ground. In painting, a picture- ground prepared wholly or chiefly in distemper or water colour, in order that the redundant oil in the colours subsequently applied, may be immediately ‘absorbed,^ by which expedition is permitted, and brilliancy imparted to them. Absorbent Surfaces. In the arts, these are usually rendered non-absorbent, preliminary to their being bronzed, gilded, painted, or var- nished, by giving them one, or more, coats of thin size, so as to destroy their porosity; care being taken to allow each coat to become thoroughly di*y before the application of the next one; and also, finally, to remove any unabsorbed excess of size from the surface, by means of a sponge dipped in ivarm water. This applies to ALABASTEE, PAPEE, WOOD, PLASTEE CASTS, &C.; and to WALLS and ceilings which are not ex- posed to the weather, and which there is not time to prepare with drying oil. See Beonzing, Maps, Vaenishing, &c. Absorption and consequent adherence in POEOirs MOULDS, as those of plaster, are usually prevented by thoroughly saturating the pores of the mould with melted tallow, or a mix- ture of tallow and bees' wax ; or for delicate OBJECTS or the electeotype, with white wax. The ‘ dry moulds’ are either heated before the application of these substances, or they are boiled in them; any portion that may finally remain unabsorbed, being carefully removed with cotton-wool or a soft rag. Another method, is to wash the moulds over two or three times with drying oil, or to boil them in it; after which they must be exposed to the air for some days, to dry and harden. Before being used for plastee, composition, &c., the sur- face of these prepared moulds require to be slightly moistened with sweet oil. Plaster moulds are generally prepared for SULPHUE, WAX, and gutta peecha casts, by simply placing them (upright) with the back immersed in a little water, contained in any shallow vessel, as a saucer or plate; and letting them remain there until moisture begins to appear on the surface. The materials to be cast, or moulded, should then be used at the lowest possible temperature, to prevent the formation of air-bubbles. The adherence of WAX or mixtures con- taining it, and of gutta peecha, is best /pre- vented by moistening the surface of the mould (w'hether of plaster, metal, or gutta percha), immediately before use, with soft soap reduced to the consistence of thin cream with water. See Casts, Moulds, Electeotype, &c. Absorbent System. In anatomy physi- ology, the absorbent vessels {lacteals and lym- phatics) and the conglobate glands. The lacteals convey the chyle from the small in- testines, and the lymphatics absorb all re- dundant matter from every part of the body They terminate in a common trunk, called the THOEACIC DUCT, which runs up along the spine to the left subclavian vein, into which it empties itself, and by which its contents enter the circulation. The conglobate glands are mere contortions of the lympathic vessels; as in the armpit, mesentery, and groin. In this way, the excess of the fluids secreted by the various secerning organs is removed, and, with the elements of nutrition, thrown back upon the system. Magendie conceives that the only general absorbents are the veins. This is, how- ever, directly opposed to the experiments of Hunter, and others; but is supported by those of Tiedemann and Gmelin, more recently per- formed. The opinion at present prevailing amongst physiologists appears to be, that the lacteals and lymphatics form the great ap- paratus of absorption, but that the venous system also ministers, in an important man- ner, to this vital function. See Absoebents, Nuteition, &c. ABSORB'ENTS. In anatomy and physiology, the small, delicate, transparent vessels in the body, which imbibe or suck up fluid substances, and convey them to the blood. They are termed lacteals or lymphatics, according the nature of the liquid they convey. See Ab- SOEBENT System {above). Absorbents. In botany and veg. physiology, the origins of the different vessels constituting the vascular tissue, as they are found in the root, where they imbibe or suck up the nutri- tive fluids from the soil. See Plants and Vegetables. Absorbents. In agriculture and chemistry, substances which possess the pow'er of with- drawing moisture from the atmosphere; as soils, argillaceous earths, &c. Also (but less freq.) substances which neutralise acids; as chalk, lime, and magnesia. Absorbents diffet from ‘ deliquescent salts.’ The latter, attract moisture and dissolve in it; whilst the former, merely suck it into their pores, as a sponge does water. See Absoeption. Absorbents. Syn. Absoeben'tia, L. In medicine and pharmacy, substances which re-