OILS (VOLATILE). 979 a. A fixed oil obtained by distilling off the spirit from the alcoholic tincture. It has the odour of rancid fish oil, and the distilled spirit has also a putrid odour. b. A fixed oil, obtained from coarsely pow- dered ergot by strong pressure between iron plates, at a heat of about 212° Fahr. It is fluid, coloured, smells strongly of the drug, but is nearly destitute of its leading qualities. Both the preceding contain some volatile oil and resinous matter. c. An empyreumatic oil obtained by dis- tilling ergot per se. It is light brown, viscid, acrid, and nauseous. d. A volatile oil, obtained by digesting poiv- dered ergot in liquor of potassa at 125° Fahr., diluting the saponaceous mass thus formed with one half to an equal weight of water, neutralizing the alkali with dilute sulphuric acid, and then submitting the whole to dis- tillation in a chloride of sodium or oil bath. It is white, adhesive, butyraceous, and taste- less. It appears a product, rather than a simple educt. e. This is the ethereal oil, first described, in its purest form. It is colourless, translucent, oily, and acrid-tasted, with the odour of ergot; it has a high boiling-point, at which it sufters partial decomposition, but may be volatilized at a lower temperature, like the other oils. [By long exposure to heat, it thickens and [partly solidifies; light and air darken it; it is lighter than water; very slightly soluble in water, but sufficiently so to impart to it its peculiar odour; it is soluble in pure alcohol, in ether, the volatile and fixed oils, alkaline jlyes, liquor of ammonia, creasote, and naphtha. The dilute mineral acids clear it, but do not produce any marked reaction. Ethe"real Oil. See Oil of wine {below). Oil of Fen'nel. Syn. Oleum fceniculi ode !(Ph. L.), O. f. officinalis (Ph. E. & D.), O. iF. DULCis, L. From the fruit or seed of ^<A\F«niculum dulce, or sweet fennel (Ph. L.). IDB Colourless; odour that of the plant; tastes If '■ |hot and sweetish; congeals at 50° Fahr.; a carminative and stomachic. It consists of two I oils; the one solid, and identical with that of oil of aniseed. When treated with nitric acid, it affords benzoin. Sp. gr. *997. Prod. Dried fruit {of commerce), 3§ to 3'5§. The flowering \herb yields *35g of a similar oil. Obs. The oil of fennel of the shops is the product of the fruit of Foeniculum vulgare, or common, wild, or bitter fennel. It closely resembles that of sweet fennel, but is scarcely ISO agreeable either in taste or smell. It is (chiefly used to scent soaps. Fu'sel Oil. Noticed at 676. T1 Oil of Gal'banum. Syn. Oleum galbani i(Ph. Bor.), L. From galbanum, 2 lb.; water, |16 fl. oz.; distilled together. Yellow; re- ^ hembles oil of asafcetida, but milder. Oil of Gar'lic. Syn. Sulphuret of allyl, 'SULPHIDE OF A. From the bruised bulbs or cloves ’ of ylllium sativum, or garlic. It pos- sesses the peculiar odour, taste, and other properties of the bulbs in a highly exalted degree. Obs. When a mixture of oil of black mustard and sulphide of potassium is exposed in a sealed glass tube to a temperature above that of 212° Fahr., sulphoctanide of potassium and GAELIC OIL are formed. On the other hand, when the compound of garlic oil and chloride of mercury (formed by adding to an alcoholic solution of the oil a like solution of the chloride) is gently heated with sulpho- cyanide of potassium, mustard oil, with all its characteristic properties, is called into existence. Oil of Gaulthe"ria. See Oil of Partridge Berry {below). Oil of Gen'tian. Syn. Oleum gentians, L. From the root. Butyraceous; smells strongly of gentian. 3 cwt. yield 1 dr. (barely). Oil of Gera"nium. Syn. Oil of ginger GRASS, O. of spikenard. The oil of com- merce which passes under this name is im- ported from the East Indies. It is not obtained from any species of Geranium or Pelargonium, but probably from a species of Andropogon. It is often employed to adul- terate OTTO OF ROSES. See Grass Oil {below). Oil of Gin'ger. Syn. Oleum zingiberis, L. From the dried root (rhizome) of Zingiber officinale, or ginger of commerce. Bluish- green; possesses a less agreeable odour than that of good ginger, without any pungency. Prod. II of Ig (M. Ray baud.) Oil of Grain-spirit. Syn. Grain oil. Two distinct substances are found in spirit distilled from fermented grain; one of which is buty- raceous and highly offensive (‘ CORN oil ’ of Mulder—?), the other liquid (crude fusel oil). The relative proportions of these sub- stances to each other, and to the spirits which they contaminate, vary with the materials and the management of the process. The ‘ grain OIL ’ of the London rectifiers consists chiefly of FUSEL or POTATO OIL, mixed with alcohol and water, and with small and variable pro- portions of solid ethyl- and amyl-compounds of certain fatty acids (cenanthic and mar- GARic). The latter are said to be similar to the butyraceous matter before referred to, as well as the solid fat of the whiskey-distilleries conducted on the old plan. According to Mr. Rowney, the fusel oil of the Scotch distilleries contains capric acid. See Corn Oil {above), and Fusel Oil {page 676). Grape Oil. Syn. Brandy oil. Cognac o. This is essentially the ‘sulphate of oxide of amyle.’ It is prepared by dissolving the fusel oil of marc-brandy in strong rectified spirit, and then adding a sufficient quantity of con- centrated sulphuric acid to form a sulphate; alcohol and excess of acid is removed by wash- ing the newly formed compound with water. Dissolved in rectified spirit, it forms ‘ brandy essence,’ which is used to impart the Cognac