977 OILS (VOLATILE). 1 From the fruit (seed) of Apium graveolem. Diuretic; stimulant. Prod, f to Ig (nearly). ! Oil of Cham'omile. Syn. Oil of Roman I CHAMOMILE ; OlEUM ANTHEMIDIS (Ph. L. E. '& D.), O. CHAM.EMELI, O. C. FLOEUM, O. ,essentiale ex floeibus c., L. From the \flowers of Anthemis nobilis. In the Ph. L., English oil of chamomile (anthemidis oleum, Anolioum) is ordered. Blue; turns yellow and brown by exposure and age; odour charac- teristic. Sp. gr., English (from the flowers), •9083; foreign, *9289. Prod. Fresh flowers, j*l§ (barely); recently dried (flnest commercial), - ..i’Sg; av. of 6 dried samples, *25g (nearly). If Wflimuch water is employed, even the above small . i I quantities of oil will not be obtained. { Oil of chamomile is reputed antispasmodic, Itonic, and stomachic. 1 to 3 drops on a lump r (lof sugar, taken just before retiring to rest, is r 'an excellent preventive of nightmare, and will frequently induce quiet sleep where more active substances have failed. Unfortunately, the oil of the shops is generally either adul- p, ^ iterated or old, and commonly both, in which ■at, lease the oil acts as an irritant. A common |plan is to mix it with old oil of lemons, a fraud which may be detected by the lessened density of the oil, and by its diminished solubility in rectified spirit. I Oil of Cher'ry-laurel. Syn. Oleum laueo- IcEEASi, L. From the leaves of Cerasus Lauro- \^cerasus, or common laurel. Closely resembles joiL OF ALMONDS, but is Said to be weaker. Like [that substance, it is powerfully poisonous. Prod. jlOO lb. fresh leaves {undeveloped, June), 10*13 \oz.; do. {half-grown, June), 7*2 oz.; do. {full- \grown, 8 weeks on tree, July), 4*96 oz.; do. [{do., 3 months on tree, Sept.), 7*04 oz.; do. 1(15 months on tree), 2*24. (Christison.) I Oil of Cher'vil. Syn. Oleum ch^eophylli, ,L. From the bruised fresh herb, macerated for 2 or 3 days in salt-and-water, and then I distilled. Oil of Cincho'na. Syn. Oleum cinchon.®, L. From cinchona bark. Butyraceous; smells of the bark. 20 lb. yield only 2 gr. (Trommsdorff*.) The odour of bark is imitated liilby a solution of turmeric in potash, and by chloride of iron. I Oil of Cin'namon. Syn. Htdeide of cinna- ;MYL; OlEUM CINNAMOMI (Ph. L. E. & D.), |0. c. VEEI, L. From the bark of Cinnamomum \zeylanicum, macerated for several days in salt- ]0.nd-water, and then distilled. Yellowish or jred; very aromatic; both odour and taste 'resemble that of the bark. Sp. gr. 1*035. Prod. 11 lb. yielded 1 oz.; 100 lb. yielded 1*56 oz. (M. Raybaud.) [ Pur. Oil of cinnamon, owing to its high I price, and the consequent premium for its j adulteration, can scarcely be obtained pure [from the shops of this country. Oil of cassia and highly rectified spirit are the substances , usually employed for this purpose. The I increased sp. gr. resulting from the first, and ’ the diminished sp. gr. from the second, afford ready means of detecting these frauds. The presence of oil of cassia may also be detected by an experienced person by the odour, which differs a little from that of pure oil of cin- namon. Oil of cassia is less limpid than oil of cinnamon, and it stands a greater degree of cold without becoming turbid or congealing. “ Wine-yellow, when recent; cherry-red, when old; odour, purely cinnamomic; nitric acid converts it nearly into a uniform crystalline mass.” (Ph. E.) During this reaction the odour of bitter almonds is perceptible. Both oil of cassia and oil of cinnamon are thus con- verted into a brown balsam; with oil of cassia, however, a brisk decomposition occurs sooner, and at a slighter heat. It also forms a crys- talline compound with ammonia. These re- actions, unfortunately, are not characteristic. " The most distinguishing characteristic of the cinnamon oils is, perhaps, their relation to the alcoholic solution of caustic potash. Both dissolve in it readily and clear, with a reddish, yellowish-brown colour; after some time, how- ever, the solution becomes very turbid, and a rather heavy undissolved oil precipitates, when the solution gradually becomes clear again.” (Ure.) The palest oil is considered the best. Obs. Oil of cinnamon is chiefly imported from Ceylon, where it is distilled from bark that is unfit for exportation. The dark coloured oil is usually rectified, when two pale oils are obtained, one lighter, and the other heavier, than water; but 10§ of oil is lost by the process. The oil distilled from the root of the tree (o. cinnamomi eadicis) is much weaker than that from the bark. The oil from the leaves (o. c. folioeum), also im- ported from Ceylon, smells of cloves, but has a less density than oil of cloves. Oil of cinnamon consists essentially of hy- DEIDE OF cinnamyl, but, unless when very recently prepared, it also contains a variable proportion of cinnamic acid, formed by the oxidation of the hydeide. Oil of Cit'ron. Syn. Essence of citeon; Oleum citei, L. From the lees of citron juice; or, from the peels, as oil of lemons or bergamot. The last generally goes by the name of OIL of cedeat. Both are fragrant. (See above.) Oil of Citron-flowers. Syn. Oleum citei FLOEUM, L. Amber-coloured; highly frag- rant. Prod. 60 lb. yield 1 oz. Oil of Cloves. Syn. Essence of cloves; Oleum caeyophylloeum, O. caeyophylli (Ph. L. E. & D.), O. Eugeni.® c. (Ph. D. 1826), L. From the unexpanded flowers (cloves) of the Caryophyllus aromaticus, or Molucca clove-tree, soaked for some time in salt-and-water, and then submitted to dis- tillation; the distilled water, after having deposited its oil, being returned 3 or 4 times into the still, and again ‘ worked off ’ from the same materials. Nearly colourless, when recent, gradually becoming pale yellow, and ultimately light brown, by age; highly aro-