289 BEARDED—BED. proper 'cut’ has led to long and bloody wars between neighbouring nations.^ The wearing or non-wearing of the beard has formed the subject of innumerable edicts and enactments both in ancient and modern times. Alexander ordered the Macedonians to be shaved, lest the beard should give a 'handle’ to their enemies (b. c. 330). The emperor Julian wrote a dia- tribe, entitled " Misopogon/’ against beards (i. D. 362). Beards are now much more general in England than formerly—the fashion having, apparently, originated from the ex- amples of foreigners who visited the Great International Exhibition of 1851. Mile. Bois de Chene, a young woman 18 years of age, who was exhibited in London, in 1852-3, had a profuse head of hair, a strong black beard, large whiskers, and thick hair on her arms, neck, &c. Several other instances of bearded females are on record. See Hair, Toilet, &c. BEARD'ED. Syn. Barba'tus, L. ; Barbu, Fr.; Bartig, Ger. In anatomy, botany, and zoology, having a beard, or a beard-like ap- pendage ; prickly, barbed, jagged ; awned. BEA'VER (be'-). -Syn. C as'tor, L.; Castor, Bievre, Fr.; Biber, Ger. The fi'ber cas'tor (Linn.), an animal belonging to the rodentia ; of Cuvier, and remarkable for the great in- genuity which it exercises in the construction of its ‘lodges’ or habitations. Hob. Europe ami America. Those of the former are ‘ bur- I rowers’; those of the latter, ‘builders.’ I'he ’ fur has long been employed in the manufac- i ture of the best quality of hats (beater hats). The fat was officinal in the Ph. L. 1618. Cas- tor (casto"reum) is obtained from this animal. BEBEER'IC ACID. Syn. Bibir'ic acid. I A white, crystallisable, deliquescent, volatile ; substance, obtained from the seeds of the ‘ bebeeru tree.’ (See below.) f* BE'BEERINE (bebe'-er-inj). [Eng. Fr.] I Syn. Bi'birine (be'-ber-in); Bebeeri'na, Bi- i biei'na, &c., L. a peculiar alkaloid, disco- vered by Dr. Rodie, in the bark and seeds of the bebeeru, bibiri, or green-heart tree {nec- tan'dra Rodice’i, Schomb.), of British Guiana; and since minutely examined by Maclagan and Tilley, and by Von Planta. Prep. 1. That of commerce, which gene- rally contains some ‘ sipirine ’ (— ? altered bebeerine), and a little? ‘ lime,’ is generally first obtained in the form of sulphate, by a process analogous to that employed in the pre- paration of sulphate of quinine; and from this salt it is precipitated by the addition of ammonia or an alkali. 2. (Pure.) By precipitating the sulphate with ammonia, washing the precipitate with very cold water, and triturating it, whilst still moist, with fresh hydrated oxide of lead; next drying the ‘mixture’ by a gentle heat, exhaust- ing the ‘ residuum ’ with alcohol, distilling off the alcohol, and treating the last residuum with ether; the ethereal solution on evaporation leaves pure bebeerine, under the form of ^ As tliat between the early Tartars and Persians. a white or yellowish-white, resinous-looking substance, which is pure white when powdered. Prop.,^c. Amorphous; uncrystallisable; non- volatile; bitter-tasted; inodorous; unalterable in the air; very slightly soluble in water; very soluble in alcohol; less so in ether; reaction, alkaline; Avhen quite pure, melts at 355° Fahr., and on cooling forms a vitreous or semi- vitreous mass (Winckler); at a higher tempe- rature it suffers decomposition; ignited on platinum-foil, it burns without leaving any carbonaceous residue; neutralises acids form- ing uncrystallisable salts, most of which are soluble in water.—Prod. From the bark, 1*5 to 1*75" ; dried seed, 2-5g (nearly). Use, 8fc. Bebeeru-bark has been j>roposed and occasionally employed as a substitute for ‘ cinchona bark,’ and bebeerine for ‘ quinine,’ in the usual cases; but whether as a tonic, febrifuge, or antiperiodic, they appear less pow'erful and certain than these last.— Dose. 2 to 12 gr. or more. (See below.) Sul'phates of Bebeerine. Of these there are two, both of which are obtained in a similar manner to the Ph. E. formula for ‘ sulphate of quinine,’ and merely differ in the amount of acid finally left in combination with the alkali:— 1. Sulphate. Syn. Neu'tral sulphate of bebeerine ; Bibiri'N-E sul'phas, Ac., L. Easily soluble in water. Contains 86*4§ of bebeerine, and 13'6§ of sulphuric acid. 2. Subsul'phate. Syn. Bas'ic sulphate of BEBEERINE, DiSUL'PIIATE OF B. ; BiBIRI'N-E SUBSUL'phas, &c., L. Soluble in alcohol; sparingly soluble in w’ater unless acidulated. Contains 90’8g of bebeerine, and 9*2§ of sul- phuric acid. This is the ‘ sulphate of be- beerine ’ of commerce, and the one usually em- ployed in medicine. It is generally niet wdth in thill brownish-yellow^ scales, which are formed in a similar manner to those of ammonio- citrate of iron.—Dose. As a tonic, 1 to 3 gr.; as a febrifuge or antiperiodic, 5 to 20 gr.; in similar cases to those in which ‘ disulphate of quinine ’ is employed. See Bebeerine {above). BECH'AMEL (besh'-a-mel+2). Syn. BeCH^ AMEL, Fr. In French cookery, a fine white sauce, essentially consisting of concentrated veal-gravy or veaU consomme and cream, wdth or without flavouring. See Sauces. BE'CHIC* (-kik). Syn. BE'CHOUSf; Be'- CHicus(bek'-J),L.; Bechique, Fr.; Hustend, &c., Ger. In medicine, S^c., of or for a cough ; pectoral; also subst., applied to remedies (be'- CHics; be'chica, L.) used to relieve cough. BED. [Eng., D., Sax.] Syn. Lit, Couche, Fr.; Bett, &c., Ger.; Cubi'le, Lec'tus, Lec'tulus, Graba'tus, &c., L. a couch; that in^r on which w^e sleep; that on which anythiiig is generated, deposited, or rests. Hist. Beds or couches resembling those of modem times w^ere in use among the ancient Egyptians and the later Greeks; and were also common among the upper classes of Rome after Greece became a Roman jirovince. The ® Thus as English. 19