1357 YTTRIA—ZINC. I I foreign addition. In practice, the third for- mula will he found very satisfactory. See Oeange Cheome {page 1014) and Cheome I Red {page 1165). ; Dutch Pink. Prep. Take of French ler- ^ ries, 1 Ih. ; turmeric, ^ Id.; alum, ^ lb.; water, I 1^- gall. ; boil an hour, strain, evaporate to ^ 2 quarts, add of whiting, 3 lb., and dry by a I gentle heat. Starch, or white lead, is some- i times employed, instead of whiting, to give it U a body. Golden yellow. Used as a pigment; : hut will not glaze like brown pink. English Pink. Sgn. Light pink. As the last, but using 5 lb. of whiting. Indian Yellow. See Pueeee. King’s Yellow. Factitious tersulphuret of ! arsenic. (See page 213.) Naples Yellow. Syn. Mineeal yellow. Prep. Take of metallic antimony, in powder, 3 lb.; red lead, 2 lb.; oxide of zinc, 1 lb.; mix, calcine, well triturate the calx, and fuse it in a covered crucible; the fused mass must be reduced to an impalpable powder by grinding and elutriation. 2. Flake white, 1 ^ lb. ; diaphoretic antimony, lb.; calcined alum, 1 oz. ; sal ammoniac, 2 oz.; calcine in a covered crucible with a B moderate heat for 3 hours, so that at the end it may be barely red hot. More antimony and sal ammoniac turn it on the gold colour. 3. (Guimel.) Washed diaphoretic antimony, 1 part; pure red lead, 2 parts; grind them to a paste with water, and expose this mixture to a moderate red heat for 4 or 5 hours, as before. Used in oil, porcelain, and enamel painting. Chrome has now nearly superseded it for ordinary purposes. Patent Yellow. Syn. Cassel yellow, Montpelliee y., Tuenee’s y. Prep. Take of dry chloride of lead, 28 parts; pure car- bonate of lead, 27 parts; grind them toge- ther, fuse, and powder. 2. Common salt, 1 part, and litharge, 4 ])arts, are ground together with water, and digested at a gentle heat for some time, water being added to supply the loss by evapora- tion; the carbonate of soda formed is then washed out with more water, and the white residuum heated until it acquires a fine yellow colour. Works well in oil. Chiefly used in coach-painting. See Oxychloeide op lead ( page 826). Weld Yellow. Prepared from a decoction of weld brightened with a little alum., in the same manner as Dutch pink. Used chiefly for paper hangings. YT'TRIA. Syn. Oxide of ytteihm, Peot- oxiDE OF Y. A rare, white earth, discovered by Gadolin, in'1794, in a mineral from Y'tterby, in Sweden, since called gadolinite. Its sp. gr. is 4’842; its salts have in general a sweet- ish taste, and the sulphate and several others an amethystine colour. Its solutions are pre- cipitated by pure alkalies, but alkaline carbo- nates, especially carbonate of ammonia, dis- solve it in the cold. It is distinguished from GLIJCINA by the colour of its sulphate, by being insoluble in pure alkalies, and by yield- ing a white precipitate with ferrocyanide of potassium. Yttria may be obtained from gado- linite by a similar process to that by which GLUCINA is extracted from the beryl. According to Prof. Mosander, ordinary yttria is a mixture of the oxides of not less than three metals—ytteium, eebium, and TEEBIEM. These metals differ from each other in many important particulars. The first is a powerful base, and the others are said to be weak ones. They are separated Avith extreme difficulty, and are only interesting in a scien- tific point of view. YTTRIUM. The metallic base of ytteia, discovered by Wohler, in 1828. It may be obtained in a similar way to that adopted for ALUMINILM and GLUCINIUM. It is brittle, and has a dark gray colour. ZAF'FRE. Syn. Saffea, Saffloe, Zaffee. Crude oxide of cobalt, obtained by roasting cobalt ore, reduced to an impalpable powder, and then ground with 2 or 3 parts of very pure quartzose or siliceous sand. Used as a blue colour by enamellers and painters on porcelain and glass. Chiefly imported from Saxony. See Smalts. ZEISE’S COMBUSTIBLE PLATINUM-SALTS. Prep. (Fownes.) A solution of bichloride of platinum in alcohol is mixed Avith a little chloride of potassium dissolved in hydro- chloric acid, and the whole digested some hours at a high temperature; the alcohol is distilled off, the acid residue neutralized by carbonate of potassa, and left to crystallize. Yellow, transparent, prismatic crystals, Avhich become opaque on heating from loss of Avater; introduced into the flame of a spirit lamp, it burns vividly, leaving metallic platinum; it is soluble in 5 parts of warm water. This has the composition expressed by the formula PLClo, C4H4 -f KCl. Corresponding salts of SODIUM and ammonium are known to exist. ZE"R0. See Theemometee. ZESTS. See Powdees, Sauce, Spice, &c. ZINC. Syn. Zink, Speltee ; Zincum (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. This metal Avas first noticed by Paracelsus, in the 16th century, who called it ‘ zinetum’ ; but its ores must have been knoAvn at a much earlier period, as the ancients Avere acquainted Avith the manufficture of brass. Prep. The zinc of commerce is obtained from the native sulphuret (zinc blende), or carbonate (calamine), by roasting those ores, and distilling the calx A\dth carbonaceous matter in a covered earthen crucible, having its bottom connected Avitlv an iron tube, Avhich terminates over a vessel of Avater situated beneath the furnace. The first portion that passes over contains cadmium and arsenic, and is indicated by Avhat is technically called ‘brown blaze’; but when the metallic A'ajiour begins to burn Avith a bluish-white flame, or I