398 CARBONIC ACID. On inclining the apparatus the acid escapes over the side of the small tube, and mixing with the liquor in the flask, expels the car- honic acid of the carbonate, which is then dried by passing over the chloride of calcium. After effervescence has ceased, heat should be applied to the bottom of the flask, until it be filled with steam, to expel the carbonic gas it contains. The loss of weight gives the weight of the carbonic acid gas that was contained in the sample. The twin globes devised by Dr. Ure, and figured on page 100, may be substi- tuted for the flask and its tubes. The quantity of carbonic acid in the carbonates of the metals that do not contain water, may be determined by heating them to redness in a platina cru- cible. (See Table, page 99.) CARBON'IC ACID. Syn. Caebonic an'hy- DEiDE, Fixed air. Choke damp. Aerial ACID; Acidhm carbon'ichm, Spiritus le- tha'lis, L. ; Acide caebonique, Fr.; Kohlen SAUEE, Ger. A compound formed by the che- mical union of carbon and oxygen. Hist. Van Helmont recognised carbonic acid as a peculiar gas. Dr. Black, in 1757, proved that it was a constituent of limestone, and gave it the name of fixed air; he also showed that the causticity of alkalies depended on its absence. Bergmann first described it as an acid, applying to it the term aerial acid. Lavoisier, in 1776, established its true nature, and gave it the name it now bears. Faraday, in 1823, by pressure at an extremely low tem- perature, reduced carbonic acid to a liquid, and a few years later Thilorier and Brunei obtained it in the solid form. Hat. Hist. Carbonic acid is a constituent of the atmosphere, its presence being essential to the existence of vegetable life on the globe. It issues from the earth in many situations, as the Grotto del Cane in Italy, the Valley of Poison in Java, and near the Lake of Laach in Germany. It gives to many mineral springs their sparkling brilliancy, and is held in solu- tion by all natural waters. Combined with the bases, lime and magnesia especially, it exists in large quantities in the crust of the earth. It is the chief product of combustion, and one of the products of fermentation. It is always being exhaled by animals in the process of respiration, and in smaller quanti- ties by plants at night or in the shade. It forms the terrible “ choke-damp'* or of ter damp** of the coal mines. It is the gas disen- gaged during the effervescence of soda water and other aerated drinks, and the cause of the freshness of newly-drawn beer. Prep. 1. Hydrochloric acid, 1 part, diluted water, 4 or 5 parts, is poured upon/ra^- ments of white marble, previously placed in a suitable generating apparatus.^ Carbonic acid is rapidly evolved, and may 1 A large flask, provided with a bent glass tube for con- veying tlie gas, and a tube-funnel for introducing the acid, is the most convenient form of apparatus (see flgure on jjage 216). A tubulated retort may be used, but the generating flask or bottle is to be preferred. be collected, with some loss, over water in the pneumatic trough. If required dry, the gas must be passed over fragments of fused chlo- ride of calcium placed in a large tube, or through a small quantity of concentrated sul- phuric acid, and collected by displacement or over mercury. 2. (Ph. L. 1836.) From chalk rubbed to powder and mixed with water to the consist- ence of a syrup, and sulphuric acid diluted with an equal weight of water. 3. {Commercial.) From oil of vitriol, 1 part; water, 6 parts; and chalk or whiting li part; mixed in a suitable vessel, applying agitation. 4. (On a large scale—Meschelynck and Lionnet.) Refractory earthen retorts filled with chalk are heated to dull redness in a re- verberatory furnace; currents of steam are then passed through the retorts, when large quantities of carbonic acid are immediately evolved. Obs. Of the above processes. No. 1 is that commonly adopted in the laboratory of the chemist, and No. 3 that in use among soda- water makers. Whenever the gas is required for therapeutical use, it is preferable to employ sulphuric acid to decompose the chalk or marble (Royle). When it is not required dry, the gas may be collected over water, for the materials are so cheap that the loss by absorp- tion is of little consequence. It is so much heavier than atmospheric air, that when re- quired dry it may be conveniently collected by the process of displacement, which con- sists in simply passing the end of a bent tube connected with the generator to the bottom of a bottle or jar, the mouth of which is lightly closed with a piece of card. It is improper to use black marble where a tolerably pure gas is required. Prop. Under ordinary conditions, carbonic acid is a colourless, non-inflammable, irrespir- able gas, possessing a slightly pungent odour, and an acidulous taste. Water absorbs its own volume of this gas, and by pressure may be made to take up enormous quantities, form- ing carbonated or aerated water. Its sp. gr. is 1*520, hence it may be poured from one vessel to another like water. By a pressure of thirty atmospheres at 32° Fahr., it is lique- fied, the pressure required decreasing as the temperature gets lower. At —94° Fahr. it solidifies into a vitreous transparent mass. Carbonic acid, even when greatly diluted with air, cannot be inhaled without insensibility following. An atmosphere containing more than its natural quantity of the gas (1 part in 2500 parts, by measure) acts upon the system as a narcotic poison, hence the danger of over- crowded rooms. It is a non-supporter of com- bustion, at once extinguishing a lighted candle, gas-jet, or even apiece of burning phosphorus, when these are placed in ajar of the gas. Tests. It feebly reddens litmus paper, ex- tinguishes the flame of a burning taper, and