CAMERA OBSCURA—CAMPHOR. 385 son will readily be able to set up this instru- ment, than which a more useful one cannot exist. CAM;eRA 0BSCU"RA. [L. and Eng.] An optical instrument for producing upon a screen the image of a field of view more or less ex- tensive. It was invented by Baptista Porta I in the 16th century. The principles and con- struction of the CAMEEA OBSCUEA may be thus described:—A convex lens {B), is placed in a hole admitting the light into a darkened box I or chamber {A), which falling on a white ground (Z)), produces an inverted picture of every object within its range. The image thus formed may be restored to its natural position, by allowing the rays of light to pass through ; two lenses instead of one, or by receiving the j rays on a mirror placed] at an angle of 45°, j when the image will be thrown on the floor I in its original position. The picture maj'- be viewed through an oblong aperture cut in the I box, or the experiment may be performed in a I darkened room, by placing the lens in a hole I in the shutter, and allowing the image to fall I on the wall, or on a sheet of white paper j stretched to receive it. I I In the simplest form, when intended for taking views or portraits, the image is thrown upon a mirror placed at an angle of 45°, and resting on the bottom of the box, by which j means it is thrown upwards against a plate of glass, also placed at a similar angle. On this is laid a piece of semitransparent tracing paper, on which the object is distinctly seen painted, and may be traced out with a pencil. When the CAMEEA is used in pnOToaEAPHY, slides j are provided to retain the sensitive paper in the proper position in the box or dark chamber I to receive the image, and the whole apparatus i I is adjusted with screws, and slides of the most delicate description. Achromatic glasses are also employed. See Photogeapht. CAM THERE. Syn. Cam'philene, Dad'yle. A solid hydro-carbon obtained by passing the vapour of hydrochlorate of camphene (eacti- TioiJS CAMPHOe) over dry heated quick- lime ; the acid is held by the lime, and pure camphene passes over. CAMTHINE. The name given by ^‘the trade ” to rectified oil of turpentine when sold for burning in lamps, in order that j)urchasers may not be aware of the inflammable character of the liquid. Since the introduction of the hydro-carbon oils from coal, shale, and petro- leum, camphine has been little used for burn- ing. To rectify the turpentine, it is passed in vapour through a solution of caustic potash, soda, or lime ; or through sulphuric acid, CAMTHOLERE. A volatile hydrocarbon obtained by distilling a mixture of campholic acid and anhydrous phosphoric acid. CAMPHOLTC ACID. A white, crystalline, acid substance, obtained by passing the vapour of camphor over a mixture of hydrate of po- tassa and quicklime, strongly heated in a por- celain tube. It is only sparingly soluble in water. With the bases it forms campholates. The process yields very small quantities of the acid, and is far from being satisfactory. CAMTHOR. Syn. Cam'phiee, Laij'eel CAM'PHOE j Campho'ea, Pli. L. E. & D. A crys- talline substance found in many plants; though only obtained in large quantities from two, namely, Camphora officinarum and Bryoha- lanops aromatica. The first, commonly known as the laurel camphor-tree of China and Japan, yields the camphoe op commeece ; the latter, the SrMATEA or Boeneo camphoe, and the peculiar fluid known as liquid camphoe. It is found that several of the essential oils, by carefully distilling off about one-third their volume, yield a species of camphor. By col- lecting this, and redistilling the remainder of the oil 2 or 3 times, a further quantity of cam- phor may be obtained. Oil of rosemary, treated in this way, yields about lOg of cam- phor ; oil of sweet marjoram the same ; oil of sage yields 13g; oil of lavender, 25g. By keep- ing the oils loosely corked, and in a cool place, they produce a larger portion of this camphor. Aniseed camphor is the congealable portion of oil of aniseed, separated from the liquid oil, which it resembles in odour and flavour. Am'ber Camphor. See Pyeetine (Crystal- lized). Com'mercial Camphor (Crude). The produce of the laurel camphor-tree, brought to Europe chiefly from China and the island of Formosa, in the form of grayish grains, aggregated into crumbling cakes. Prep. The Chinese and Japanese extract the camphor by cutting the wood into small pieces, and boiling it with water in iron vessels, which are covered with large earthen capitals or domes, lined with rice straw. As the water boils, the camphor 25