33i BLExiR-EYE—BLINDNESS. phur thrown on, the lid instantly closed, and the whole left for some hours. Care should be taken to avoid inhaling the fumes, which are very deleterious as well as disagreeable and annoying. Straw goods are now also frequently bleached by the use of a weak solution of chloride of lime, or of water strongly soured with oxalic acid or even oil of vitriol, followed by very careful ' rinsing ’ in clean water ; but here, as in the former case, the natural varnish, dirt, grease, &c., must be first removed by alkalies or soap, to enable the chlorine or acid to act on the fibres. Concluding Remarks. The theory of bleach- ing, notwithstanding the giant strides of che- mistry during the last 20 years, remains still unsettled; and hence the processes employed are still, for the most part, empirical. It ap- pears probable that chlorine acts by uniting with the ‘ hydrogen ’ of the water, or of other compounds present, or probably with that of both, and that it is the ‘oxygen’ thus libe- rated, and whilst in the nascent state, that is the true operative agent. Hence bleaching by chlorine, or by the hypochlorites, may be regarded as an oxidation of the colom*ing matter j but whether the chlorine or the oxygen effects this oxidation is of little prac- tical importance—the result being the same— the destruction of the compound, and the re- moval of the colour that depends on its ex- istence. It is doubtful whether the bleaching power of sulphurous acid is due to it as an ‘ oxidising ’ or a ‘ deoxidising ’ agent; but the last is probably the case, with a like destruc- tion of the compound constituting the colour- ing matter. It may, however, be supposed that sulphurous acid acts as an ‘ oxidiser,’ as it appears to do when it decomposes sulphu- retted hydrogen; or it may act by simply altering the compound by inserting itself, a view receiving some support from the fact that wool whitened by sulphuring may be re- stored to nearly its previous colour by merely treating it with soap or alkalies. The bleaching power of light depends on its ‘ actinic ’ or ‘ chemical rays,’ which, like chlorine, appear to act as an oxidising agent. Chlorates, chromates, chromic acid, manga- nates, 8fc., have been proposed as bleaching agents for textile filaments and fabrics, but without success or practical advantage. Im- mersion in water more or less strongly impreg- nated with sulphurous acid has, however, been successfully substituted for the common ‘ sul- phuring process/ particularly for silk. To avoid the injury of the ‘ goods ’ by sparks, and by drops of water highly satu- rated with sulphurous acid falling from the roof, Mr. Thom has invented a method of passing them rapidly through, or keeping them in constant motion in, the ‘ sulphuring chamber.’ His apparatus is constructed on the principle of the ‘ washing-machine,’ the fumes of burning sulphur being used instead of w'ater. '[Further information in connection with bleaching will be found under the ‘ heads ’ 1 Actinism, Blanching, Calico-feinting, i Chaecoal, Chloeides (Bleaching), Cheo- ' MATES, Cheomic Acid, Hypochloeites, Hypochloeous Acid, Light, Rinsing, Spots and Stains, Shlphheing, Washing, ; &c.; also under Bones, Engeavings, Eat, j Feathees, Hoen, Ivoey, Oil, Papee, I Feinted Books, Rags, Sponge, Steaw- 1 PLAIT, Tallow, Wax, &c.^] ' I Bleaching Liq'uid. Solution of chloride of lime. I Bleaching Pow'der. Chloride of lime. I, Bleaching Salts. The commercial hypo- chlorites. BLEAR'-EYE [blere’-I). Syn. Lippith'do, L.; Chassie, Lippithde, Fr. An exudation of a puriform matter from the margins of the eye-lids, which are red, tumid, and painful; and frequently, during the night, glued together by the discharge. Treatm. Mild astringent collyria, as those of sulphate of zinc or alum (6 or 8 gr. to 1 oz. of water). An ointment formed of 1 part of the ointment of nitrate of mercury (Ph. L.), di- luted with 11 parts of sweet washed lard, may be advantageously applied nightly, by means of a camel-hair pencil, the smallest quantity I possible only being used. Excess in eating ' and drinking should he avoided, and some aperient medicine taken. BLEAK (bleke). Syn. Blay^;, BleyJ (bla). The cypri'nus albur'nus (Linn.), a small river- fish, the scales of which are used in making , artificial pearls (which see). \ BLEEDING (blede'-). In the sense of a : ‘ flow or loss of blood,’ see HxEMOeehage ; ! in that of ‘bloodletting,’ see Cupping, j Leeching, Venesection, &c. | BLENDE (blend). A name applied to several minerals; appr., zinc-blend, or native sul- phuret of zinc—the ‘ black jack ’ of miners. BLENNORRHA'GIA (-ra'-), Blennorrhce'a , (-re'-). [L.; prim., Gr.] In pathology, a morbid secretion or discharge of mucus ; often loosely applied to ‘ gonorrhoea.’ BLIGHT (hlite). See Mildew, and Plants (Diseases of). BLIND'NESS (blind'-). Syn. Ablep'sia, C.e'citas, &c., L.; Ayeuglement, Cecite, Fr.; Blindheit, Ger. Deprivation or want of sight. Blindness may be congenital, or born with a person; or it may arise from accident, external violence, or disease. In the latter it may frequently be relieved by medical and surgical treatment. See Amaueosis, Cataeact, Eyes, Ophthalmia, Vision, &c. Day Blindness. Syn. Night'-sight; Nyc- TALo'piA, L. A disease of the eye in which vision is painfully acute or more or less ex- 1 An accurate description of the apparatus and ma- chinery employed in bleach-works, witli numerous en- gravings, will be found in lire’s ‘'Diet, of Arts, Manuf., ] yiincs," 5th ed., i. 318-351, &.c. |