110 ALLOXANIC ACID—ALLOY. mass of white, crystalline, pasty matter, is thrown on a funnel choked with powder and fragments of glass, or with asbestos, to drain; a very few drops of cold distilled water being afterwards sprinkled over it, to displace the last adhering portion of acid-liquor. The drained mass is next dried by exposure on a porous tile, or by means of bibulous paper; and is purified by solution in a small quantity of distilled water, and crystallisation; unne- cessary exposure to heat being avoided as much as possible. Four or five crops of crystals may be obtained from the acid mother-liquor, by treating it as often with fresh uric acid. Prod. 80 to 90^ of the uric acid employed. Prop., Sfc. Efflorescent crystals ; those from a hot concentrated solution, lustrous rhombic octahedrons, and anhydrous; those from a cold solution spontaneously evaporated, large and foliated, containing 6 equiv. of water; very soluble in water; taste, disagreeable and astringent; reaction, acid; its aqueous solu- tion tinges the skin, after a time, red or purple; alkalies and both oxidising and deoxidising agents decompose it; caustic alkalies convert it into ALLOXANIC ACID. Its most characteristic property is that of forming a deep-blue compound with a salt of protoxide of iron and an alkali. It is diuretic, but the dose and its gene- ral physiological action remain undetermined. ALLOXAN IC ACID (-log-zan'-). Syn. Aci- DtiM alloxanTcum, L. A product of the action of caustic alkalies and alkaline earths on alloxan, discovered by Wohler and Liebig. ^ Prep. To an aqueous solution of alloxan, heated to 140° Fahr., baryta-water is added as long as the precipitate which forms redissolves on agitation; after which, the liquid is fil- tered, and set aside to cool. The crystals (allox'ANATE OF bartta) which are deposited are redissolved in tepid water, and the solution is decomposed with very dilute sulphuric acid, cautiously added, until all the baryta is preci- pitated. The filtered or decanted liquid yields ALLOXANIC ACID by gentle evaporation. Prop., &fc. Crystals, small radiated needles; soluble; taste and reaction, acid; decomposes the carbonates; dissolves zinc and iron with disengagement of hydrogen gas; with the » bases it forms salts (allox'anates ; allox'- ANAS, L. sing.), of which many are soluble; those with the earths are only feebly soluble in tepid water; that of sjVver is insoluble and anhydrous. They are most conveniently ob- tained from the baryta or ammonia salt, by double decomposition. Alloxanic acid is bi- basic, and is isomeric with alloxan. See Mes- oxALic Acid. ALLOX'ANTINE (-tin; or -log-zan'-) Syn. Alloxanti'na, L. a crystallisable substance, first obtained by Dr. Prout from uric acid. Prep. 1. Uric acid, 1 part; is boiled in water, 32 parts; dilute nitric acid being added until solution is complete; the resulting liquid is evaporated to |ds its volume, and then set aside for 10 or 12 hours; the crystals, which are deposited, are purified by re-solution and crystallisation. 2. Sulphuretted hydrogen gas is passed, in a full stream, through a moderately strong aqueous solution of alloxan, in the cold. The ALLOXANTINE, which is deposited as a crys- talline mass, is purified by draining, cautious washing with cold water, re-solution in boiling water, and recrystallisation. The impure mother-liquor from which crystals of alloxan have separated, if diluted with water, may be used for this purpose. Prop., S(c. Crystals, small colourless, trans- parent, four-sided, oblique rhombic prisms; scarcely soluble in cold water; solution reddens litmus; with baryta water it gives a charac- teristic violet-coloured precipitate, which dis- appears on heating; and with nitrate of silver a black precipitate of that metal; the crystals are reddened by ammoniacal vapours. ALLOY'. Syn. Alliage, Fr.; Legirdng, Vermischung durch schmelzen, Ger.; Al- LAY'f. In coinage, a compound of the pre- cious metals with another, or others, of less value; also the least valuable metal, or metals, in such compounds. In chemistry and metal- lurgy, combinations of the metals with each other usually obtained by fusion. When mer- cury is one of the component metals, the compound is termed an amalgam. Hist. The practice of alloying one metal with another is probably nearly as old as the art of working in metals. The bronzes of an- tiquity are unexcelled by any similar alloys of modern times. Prep., Hfc. No general rules can be given for this purpose. Alloys of metals diftering greatly in fusibility, are commonly made by adding the more fusible one, either in the melted state, or in small portions at a time, to the other melted, or heated to the lowest possible temperature at which a perfect union will take place between them. The mixture is usually affected under afux, or some material that will promote liquefaction, and prevent volatilisation and unnecessary exposure to the air. Thus; in melting lead and tin together, for SOLDER, resin or tallow is thrown upon the surface; in tinning copper, the surface is iv.bbed with sal ammoniac ; and in combining some metals, powdered charcoal is used for the same purpose. Quicksilver combines with many metals in the cold, forming amalgams. Comp. The following Table exhibits the composition of the more important compounds of this class :— Table of the principal alloys. Names. Combining metals. Albata See German silver. Amalgams Mercury and other metals.