46 AFFECTION—AFFIXITY. and apply heat, then transfer the product into a well-stopped phial. Prop. A light powder resembling magnesia, infusible, and nearly insoluble in water. It forms compounds called iE''THONiDES (-mds) with the metals. These may be prepared by either exposing a mixture of the metal and cethogen to heat, or a mixture of the cyanide of the metal with boracic acid. AFFEC'TION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Aefec'tio, L. In pathology, a term nearly synonymous with disease. AFFINTTY. Syn. Elective attraction. Chemical a.; Aefin'itas, L. ; Affinite, Fr.; Veewandtschaft, Ger. In chemistry, the peculiar power, or force, by which new substances or compounds are generated by the chemical union of dissimilar bodies. The result of its operation is chemical combina- tion. It is distinguished from other modifi- cations of the attractive force—adhesion, cohe- sion, molecular action, ^c.—by the complete change of character which follows its action. It is distinguished from solution by the posi- tive nature of the results, and by the combin- ing quantities being in definite proportion to each other. To enable substances to exert their mutual affinities, or to act cheinically on each other, the opposing powers of matter—cohesion, &c. —must be overcome ; and they must be placed under circumstances favorable to the develop- ment of this peculiar force. The closest proxi- mity of bodies is absolutely necessary for the exertion of this action, since it operates only on their minutest atoms, or ultimate particles, when placed at insensible distances from each other. Hence it is, that two solids seldom exhibit a disposition to enter into combina- tion. Their imperfect contact, and the immo- bility of their particles, offer no opportunity for the play of chemical attraction. The union of salt and ice, of dry oxalic acid and lime, and of chlorate of potassa and sulphur, are certainly exceptions to the rule; but are not of so positive a character as to interfere with its general accuracy. In the last two cases, either percussion or friction is indispen- sable for combination. Even w'hen one or both of the substances are fluid, heat is often re- quired to diminish cohesion and produce che- mical union. Sulphur will not unite with either cold iron or mercury, nor will either carbon or hydrogen unite with oxygen at a heat insuffi- cient for combustion; whilst chlorine and hydrogen combine together most readily under the warm influence of sunlight. It is a general law of chemical attraction, that those bodies most opposed to each other in their chemical properties, evince a greater ten- dency to combine together, than those sub- stances between which strong analogies and resemblances may be traced. Thus acids and alkalies, (the very antipodes of each other,) exhibit a constant disposition to combine; whilst the imion between acid and acid, or alkali and alkali, is extremely rare, and pro- bably never perfectly takes place. The same occurs between hydrogen and the metals in their tendency to unite with chlorine, iodine, and oxygen; whilst the attraction between the different members of these two groups is ex- tremely feeble. It was the opinion of Berthollet that all bodies have an affinity for each other, and that where combination does not take place between them, it is because their tendency to combine is opposed by more powerful circumstances. According to this writer the affinities of a com- pound are merely the combined and modified affinities of its elements. When two bodies, incapable of uniting, are made to combine by the addition of another substance, which has an affinity for the compound resulting from the former two, though it has no apparent affinity for either of them separately, the effect is said to be produced by the ‘union of forces,^ to which they would have been singly inadequate. In this way the action of water on iron and zinc, when acidulated with sulphuric acid, is accounted for. The new action thus set up has been said to arise from disposing affi- nity^; but no perfectly satisfactory explana- tion of the modus operandi of the added sub- stance has yet been given. The obscure effects brought about by the mere presence of a sub- stance which suffers no change itself, (com- monly called KATALYTic, or contact decom- position,) may, perhaps, be referred to this head. The action of binoxide of manganese on chlorate of potassa, when heated, and of yeast on solution of sugar, are familiar ex- amples. The force of the chemical attraction of one body for another, though for the most part constant, is nevertheless influenced, to a very considerable extent, by various external and adventitious circumstances. Among these may be named, as one of the most important, the modifying power of temperature. Metallic mercury by long exposure to the air at nearly the boiling point(about 600° Fahr.), absorbsoa^’y- gen and becomes converted into a dark-red crystalline powder (‘binoxide of mercury’); but this last substance when exposed to a still higher degree of heat is resolved into its ele- ments—metallic mercury and oxygen gas. In- solubility and volatility are other disturbing conditions which frequently turn the scale, when the opposing powers of affinity are nearly alike. Thus, when a solution of chloride of calcium is mixed with another of carbonate of ammonia, insoluble ‘carbonate of lime’ and ‘ hydrochlorate of ammonia’ are formed. And vfliexidiry carbonate of lime and dry hydrochlorate of ammonia are heated together, a residuum of ‘ chloride of calcium,’ and a sublimate of ‘ carbonate of ammonia’ result. In the former case the action is referred to the insolubility of the chalk; in the latter to the extreme 1 An absurd term; for bow can a substance exert an affinity for a compound before its foimation.