ACIDULJ2—ACNE. 38 food), will tend to promote the expulsion, and prevent the undue generation of gases. The flatulence usually disappears with the acidity. The occasional administration of 1 to 3 gr. of quicksilver-with-chalk gray pow'der’), will fre- quently remove the complaint, and prevent its recurrence, when all other means fail. The diet of both nurse and infant should he care- fully regulated; and advertised ‘ Farina- ceous Compounds ’ and ‘ Infant’s Food,’ care- fully avoided. See Antacids, Dyspepsia, &c. ACID'UL^ (-le). [L. pL] In medicine, mineral springs rich in carbonic acid. ACID'ULATED. Syn. AcinrLA'TUS, L.; Acidule, Fr. Blended or flavoured with an acid j made slightly sour. See Kali (Acidu- lated), Deops, Lozenges, &c. ACID'ULOUS. Syn. Acid'ulus, L.; Acidule, Aigeelet (-te), Fr. j Saueelich, Ger. Some- what acid; sub-acid; slightly sour. In che- mistry, applied to salts in which the acid is slightly in excess, and to solutions containing a little free acid. AC'IDUM (as'-). [L.] An acid. AC'NE (ak'-ne). [Gr.] Syn. Blotched eaceJ; Ac'na, L. ; AcNE, Fr. In pathology, an eruption of distinct, hard, inflamed tuber- cles (pimples), which are sometimes permanent for a considerable length of time, and some- times suppurate very slowly and partially. (Bateman.) It generally appears on the fore- head, the temples, or the chin; and, less fre- quently, on the other parts of the face. Oc- casionally it attacks the neck, shoulders, and breast, but seldom extends lower down the trunk. In its simplest form it consists of an accumulation and hardening of the sebaceous matter of the follicles or oil tubes and glands of the skin, which ultimately become inflamed, and degenerate into small abscesses. The dis- ease is generally of a purely local character, and is especially excited by heat, violent ex- ercise, excessive indulgence, solitary vice, &c. It usually occurs between the ages of puberty and thirty, or thirty-flve; and has been re- garded by some as symptomatic of a failing constitution. It is common to both sexes; but the most severe form of it is seen in young men. There are four varieties of this afiection mentioned by nosologists :— 1. Acne sih'plex; the mildest form of the disease. In this variety, many of the tuber- cles do not proceed to suppuration; but rise gradually, become moderately inflamed, and then slowly subside in 8 or 10 days, leaving a transient purplish-red mark behinci. Others suppurate imperfectly; the process occupying from a fortnight to three weeks. It is com- monly recurrent at uncertain periods.—Treat. * Cooling laxatives,’ as sulphur combined with j magnesia or cream of tartar (‘ comp, powder of j sulphur’); ‘ stimulating lotions’ or ‘ ointments,’ j as those formed of equal parts of rectified | spirit, or vinegar, and rose or elder-fiower water, > or of acetate of ammonia ; or, when there is much inflammation, of distilled water to which a few drops of solution of diacetate of lead has been added. For the last, ointment of diacetate or of carbonate of lead may be sub- stituted. As the inflammatory disposition sub- sides, weak lotions of sulphate of zinc or bi- chloride of mercury will be found highly use- ful. In slight cases, a quart of boiling water poured on 1 oz. of sulphur (crushed small), and digested with occasional agitation for 12 or 14 hours, forms an excellent wash, in all slight cases; and its use tends to remove the peculiar duskiness and roughness of the skin which often accompanies this disease. When the liver is torpid, an occasional dose of mercurial pill (2 gr.) with extract of taraxacum (3 gr.), taken overnight, followed by a black draught next morning, or of the so-called ‘ Abernethy Me- dicines,’ is recommended. In debilitated habits, ‘ tonics’ may be had recourse to. 2. Acne puncta'ta ; in which the eruption consists of a number of black points, sur- rounded by a slight border of hardened cu- ticle. These are vulgarly considered as the extremities of small worms or grubs; because, when they are pressed out, the indurated mucus or sebaceous matter which they contain, assumes that form.—Treat. The concreted matter should be extracted by pressing on both sides of the specks with the nails of opposite Angers ; after which, the treatment resembles that of ‘acne simplex’ (see above). The in- ternal use of carbonate, or bicarbonate of po- tassa, is recommended by Dr. Underwood. Dr. Willan found a tea-spoonful of chlorine- water, taken thrice a day in a tumbler of water, highly serviceable. 3. Acne induea'ta; Kost-deopJ. Here the tubercles are of a conical or conoidal form, often somewhat acuminated, of a bright ro- seate hue, and larger, as weU as more indu- rated and permanent than in ‘ acne simplex.’ The vivid hue gradually becomes purple, and even livid, in those that show no tendency to suppuration. Sometimes two or three coalesce, forming one large, irregular tubercle. Crusts form on suppuration, w'hich, after a time, fall off, leaving small scars, surrounded by hard tumours of the same dark-red colour, which sometimes again separate at uncertain periods, and sometimes slowly subside and disappear. In its severest form, this variety of * acne’ nearly covers the face, breast, shoulders, and top of the back. It is not unfrequ^tly ac- companied with disorders of the bowels and stomach, and even haemorrhoids.—Treat. Simi- lar to that of ‘ acne simplex;’ but stronger external stimulants may be had recourse to. Among these, the most effective is the solution of bichloride of mercury under the form popu- j larly known as ‘ Gowland’s Lotion.’ A lotion of j sulphuret of potassium is also serviceable. The j diet should be light and digestible, and crude I vegetables particularly avoided. Internally, ' small doses of bicarbonate of potash, sulphur,