HUMACH-SURGEEY (POPULAR). 1254 evolved gases by means of a bent tube into a bottle containing water. The sulphurous acid is absorbed, whilst the carbonic acid gas passes off. Prop., Water absorbs 30 times its volume of this gas. Puee liquid sul- PHUEOUS ACID can only be obtained by passing the pure dry gas through a glass tube sur- rounded by a powerful freezing mixture. Its sp. gr. is 1*45; boiling-point 14° Pahr.; it causes intense cold by its evaporation. Sul- phurous acid forms salts called sulphites. Uses. To bleach silks, woollens, straw, &c., and to remove vegetable stains and iron-moulds from linen. Por these purposes it is pre- pared from sawdust or any other refuse car- bonaceous matter. SU'MACH. This dye stuff is chiefly used as a substitute for galls. With a mordant of acetate of iron, it gives GEAY or black ; with tin or acetate of alumina, yellow; and with sulphate of zinc, a yellowish-beown ; alone, it gives a geeenish-eawn coloue. } SUM'BUL. Syn. Musk boot, Jatamaksi. A substance introduced to British medicine by Dr. A. B. Granville, in 1850. It occurs in circular pieces, varying from 1 to 3 or 4 inches in diameter; has a musk-like odour, and a sweet balsamic taste. It acts as a powerful stimulant, especially of the nervous system. In India and Persia it has long been used as a medicine, a perfume, and as incense. Dose. 15 gr. to 1 dr., either masticated, or made into an infusion, electuary, or tincture; in cholera, hysteria, neuralgia, epilepsy, low fevers, and various other spasmodic and nervous disorders. SUMMER DRINKS. See Lemonade, Shee- BET, &c. SU'PER-. See Nomenclatuee. SUP'PER. The evening meal; the last meal of the day. Supper is generally an un- necessary meal, and, when either heavy, or taken at a period not long before that of retiring to rest, proves nearly always injurious, preventing sound and refreshing sleep, and occasioning unpleasant dreams, nightmare, biliousness, and all the wnrst symptoms of imperfect digestion. The last meal of the day should be taken at least three hours before bedtime. Even when it consists of some * trifle,^ as a sandwich or biscuit, an interval of at least an hour should elapse before retiring to rest. In this way restlessness and un- pleasant dreams will become rare. SUPPOSITORY. Syn. Suppositoeium, L. A medicine placed in the rectum for the purpose of affecting the lower intestine, or, by absorption, the system generally. Supposi- tories are rounded, usually, elongated masses, having the active medicine combined with some substance which will retain the proper shape, as soap, spermaceti cerate, or cacao- butter. The latter substance is, perhaps, the best vehicle for remedies prescribed in this form. It is, however, rather too soft to be i used without admixture. According to Dor- vault, the addition of one eighth part by weight of wax imparts the proper hardness. The mode of proportioning the doses of active ingredients has been noticed in the article Enema. Suppository for Piles. Syn. Suppositoeium HiEMOEEHOIDALE, S. SEDATIVUM, L. Prep. 1. Powdered Opium, 2 gr.; finely powdered galls, 10 gr.; spermaceti cerate, 1 dr. 2. (Ellis.) Powdered opium, 2 gr.; soap, 10 gr.; mix. 3. (Richard.) Extracts of opium and stra- monium, of each, 1 gr.; cacao-butter, 2 dr. Used when the piles are very painful. Piir'gative Suppository. Syn. Supposi- toeium CATHAETICUM, L. Prep. 1. Soap, 1 dr.; elaterium, 1 to 2 gr.; mix. As a strong purge. 2. (Niemann.) Soap, 2 dr.; common salt, 1 dr.; honey, q. s.; mix. As a mild cathartic. ResoTvent Suppository. Syn. Supposi- } TOEiUM EESOLTENS, L. Prep. (Stafford.) Iodide of potassium, 3 to 4 gr.; extracts of henbane and hemlock, of each, 6 gr. In en- largement or induration of the prostate gland. Sed'ative Suppository. See above. Ver'mifuge Suppository. Syn. Supposi- toeium ANTHELMINTICUM, S. VEEMIFUGUM, L. Prep. (Swediaur.) Aloes, 4 dr.; common salt, 3 dr.; flour, 2 dr.; honey, q. s. to make a stiff mass; divide into proper-shaped pieces, weighing about 15 gr. each. One to be used after each motion. SUR'GERY (Popular). Under this head we propose to give a few useful hints upon the treatment of certain common deformitie.s. Eor further information on surgical matter.s we must refer the reader to special treatises, and to the articles upon surgical subjects which are scattered through this volume. Defoemities arise from various causes. Sometimes they appear at birth; at other times they arise from violence; but, more frequently, perhaps, from debility or disease, either natural or the result of mismanage- ment in infancy and childhood. Of these, deformities of the spine are usually the most difflcult of cure, and the most distressing in their consequences. The only useful mode of treatment, in these cases, appears to consist in the judicious application of mechanical means, assisted by the usual medical efforts to restore or improve the general health. Among ‘ spinal appliances,* no apparatus is better calculated to effect the object in view than that which has for its action the gradual reduction of the several prominences (‘ arcs of curve ’), and the consequent rectification of the vertebral column. The mechanical principle known as the ‘ rack and pinion,’ appears more particularly adapted to this purpose, by admitting of a gradual increase of the rectifying power, entirely at the will of the medical attendant and tlie patient. A greatly improved apparatus of this description is shown in the engr. It