ABSCESS. as frequently, no perceptible derangement of the health ensues. Chronic Abscess. Symp. Until the dis- charge of matter commences, these are similar to those just described; but there is much less inflammation. At this point, however, the latter heightens, fever is excited, and the discharge increases, producing debility and, sometimes, fatal results. The healing and reparative processes are much more tedious than in the acute variety, often barely keep- ing pace with the injurious effects of the ulcer, even when in an otherwise improving condition. The scrofulous are the most liable to chronic abscess. It is usually confined to the lymphatic glands and cellular tissue. Treat. This, in reference to both varieties of abscess, is, for the most part, similar. In the incipient and earlier stages, the ‘ resolution ^ or ‘ dispersion ’ of the tumour should be gen- erally, if not always, attempted. For this purpose, cooling applications, discutients, friction, or continued gentle pressure, may be had recourse to. The external use of iodine, either in solution or tincture; or of the oint- ments of iodine and mercury, either singly or combined, is here most appropriate; as is also a weak solution of diacetate of lead (‘liq. plumbi,^ Ph. L., 2 dr., to ‘ water,’ 1 pint), used as a liniment, or sprinkled over a warm Iread-poultice, which should be renewed twice a day. The ointments of the iodides and iodo-bicJiloride of mercury, of the iodides of gold, and of the iodo-hydrargyrate of potassa, are more active discutients, which are now frequently employed in these cases. When there is much pain, ointment of iodide of lead, mercurial ointment combined with a little extract of belladonna or hydro chlorate of am- monia, or compound belladonna ointment (No. 1), will generally be found serviceable. In cases accompanied with much inflammation, and which resist the ordinary applications, it has been recommended, after having cleansed and slightly moistened the tumour, to rub the whole surface lightly over with a stick of lunar caustic; and after the complete des- quamation of the cuticle, which usually occurs in a day or two, to repeat the operation, if necessary. This treatment occasions little or no pain, whilst by it, the redness, heat, and swelling, are often considerably abated. A blister is sometimes applied with the same intention; but, if it fail to produce the desired effect, it is almost certain to promote the suppurative action, which is often inconvenient. At a later stage, and even when suppuration is established, a })laster of ammoniacum with mercury (Ph. L.), applied so as to fully cover the whole swelling, and retained in its place by means of a bandage causing gentle and equable pressure, is often successful in causing the discussion of the tumour. In obstinate cases, particularly those in which a scrofulous diathesis, or a syphilitic taint exists, the em- ployment of external applications should be accompanied by the internal administration of small doses of the preparations of iodine, or (due caution being observed), of the iodides of mercury, or the terchloride or iodides of gold, (see mixtures.) During the whole of this treatment, and until the absorption of the tumour and its contents (if any), the bowels should be daily gently moved by mild aperients; the diet should be light, non-stimulating, and rather below than above the usual standard; spirits and fermented liquors should be care- fully avoided ; mild pure air should be sought as much as possible; and gentle out-door exercise, whenever the weather permits it, should be reasonably indulged in. If the above treatment prove ineffectual, and suppuration continue, the opposite course must be pursued. The applications should then consist of warm poultices, plasters, or fomentations ; and a liberal diet should be in- dulged in until the maturation of the abscess is complete. As a ‘poultice,’ there is none better, and few so good, as that made with the crum of stale bread and hot water ^vithout ‘ oil ’ or ‘ grease ’), so as to be smouch, soft, and moist. It should be applied ‘ comfortably ’ warm, and renewed at least twice a day. A piece of spongio-piline, dij>ped in warm water, may be conveniently substituted for a poultice, when at hand; as also may pieces of lint or soft flannel, if treated in the manner noticed under poultices. When, owing to the indo- lent nature of the tumour, these applications are not sufficiently stimulating, poultices com- posed of mashed onions or garlic, or containing galbanum or resin cerate, may be had recourse to. Among ‘ plasters,’ resin plaster or, where the tumour ripens slowly, those of ammoniacum, galbanum, and Burgundy pitch, are the ones chiefly employed. These have the advantage over poultices, of not preventing the patient attending to his usual business or other avo- cations. ‘ Fomentations ’ are to be little depended on. Those chiefly in use are of bran, chamomile flowers, marshmallow leaves or root, and poppy-heads ; the last being preferred where there is much pain. In indolent cases, ‘fomentations’ or ‘lotions’ containingj^owr of mustard, sesquicarbonate of ammonia, tincture of cantharides, or capsicum, are sometimes used with advantage. When the suppuration is completed, and the rupture of the tumour occurs, the expulsion of the matter should be promoted by gentle pressure with a small strip of lint or soft linen held by its two extremities between the thumb and forefinger of opposite hands; after which a small piece of dry lint should be gently inserted to keep the wound open, and a ‘pledget’ spread with resin cerate, or in its absence with any consistent simple ointment, laid over all. Lastly, gentle pressure should be made by means of a piece of adhesive plaster, or bandages, so as to bring and keep the sides of the abscess in contact; but in such a manner as not to obstruct the gradual