MANGE—MANURES. 883 an alkali, or an alkaline salt capable of suffer- ing decomposition by heat, is heated to redness along with an oxide of manganese. The ad- dition of nilre or chlorate of potassa facili- tates this change. The deep green saline mass .thus obtained is a salt of this acid, and its so- [lution in water, when concentrated in vacuo, (yields small green crystals. When the potassa [salt is put into a large quantity of water, it is 'resolved into hydrated binoxide of manganese, [which subsides, and a deep purple liquid con- itaining PERMANaANATE OP POTASSA (mIJS'EEAL (chameleon). See Permanganic Acid. j MANGE. An aniinalcular eruptive disease, corresponding to the itch in man, common to several domestic animals, more especially the dog and horse. Like the itch, it is contagious. The causes are confinement, dirt, and bad 'living. The treatment should consist in the immediate removal of the cause, the frequent use of soft soap and water, followed by frictions with ointment or by solution of chloride > f lime, the administration of purgatives, and i change to a restorative diet. MAN"GEL V/’UE'ZEL. Syn. Hybrid beet. Root of scarcity. The Beta vulgaris, var. lampestris, a variety of the common beet. The root abounds in sugar, and has been used n Germany as a substitute for bread in times )f scarcity. In these countries it is chiefiy mltivated as food for cattle. The young 'eaves are eaten as spinach. MANHEIM GOLD. A gold-coloured brass. ?ee Gold (Dutch). MAN'NA. Syn. Manna (Ph. L. E. & D.), Li. “ The juice flowing from the incised bark’' )f “ Fraxinus rotundifolia and F. ornus, hard- med by the air.” (Ph. L.) The finest va- ( j'iety of this'drug is known &.S, flake manna, and )ccurs in pieces varying from 1 to 6 inches ong, 1 or 2 inches wide, and | to 1 inch thick. It has a yellowish-white or cream colour; an )dour somewhat resembling honey, but less fleasant; a sweet, mawkish taste; and is ight, porous, and friable. It is laxative in loses of 1 to 2 oz. Factitious Manna, made of a mixture of nigar, starch, and honey, with a very small [uantity of scammony to give it odour and lavour, and to render it purgative, has been atcly very extensively ofiered in trade, and net with a ready sale. MAN'NACROUP. A granular preparation )f icheat deprived of bran, used as an article )f food for children and invalids. (Brande.) MAN'NITE. Syn. Manna sugar, Mush- lOOM s.; Mannita, L. A swcet, crystalli- ;ablo substance, found in manna and in several fiber vegetable productions. It has been brined artificialiy by the action of sodium- amalgam upon an alkaline solution of cane ugar. Prep. 1. Dige.st marina in boiling rectifled pirit, and filter or decant the solution whilst lot; the mannite crystallizes as the liquid ■ools in tufts of slender, colourless needles. 2. (Ruspini.) Manna, 6 lb.; cold water (in which the white of an egg has been beaten), 3 lb. / mix, boil for a few minutes, and strain the syrup through linen whilst hot; the strained liquid will form a semi-crystalline mass on cooling; submit this to strong pressure in a cloth, mix the cake with its own weight of cold water, and again press it; dissolve the cake thus obtained in boiling ivater, add a little animal charcoal, and filter the mixture into a porcelain dish set over the fire ; lastly, evapo- rate the filtrate to a pellicle, and set the syrup aside to crystallize. Large quadran- gular prisms; perfectly white and transparent. Pro])., ^c. Mannite has a powerfully sv/eet and agreeable taste; dissolves in 5 parts of cold water, and about half that quantity of boiling Avater; freely soluble in hot, and slightly so in cold alcohol; fuses by heat with- out loss of weight; with sulphuric acid, it combines to form a new acid-compound. It is distinguished from the true sugars by its aqueous solution not being susceptible of the vinous fermentation, and not possessing the property of rotary polarization. When pure, it is 2ierfectly destitute of purgative proper- ties. It is now extensively imported from Italy, and is (diiefly used to cover the taste of nauseous medicines, and as a sweetmeat. MANURES'. Substances added to soils to increase their fertility. The food of vegetables, as far as their organic structure is concerned, consists entirely of inorganic comjDounds ; and no organized body can serve for the nutrition of vegetables until it has been, by the pro- cess of decay, resolved into certain inorganic substances. These are carbonic acid, -water, and AMMONIA, which are well known to be the final products of putrefaction. But even v/hen these are ajijfiied to vegetables, their growfih will not proceed unless certain mineral substances are likewise furnished in small quantities, either by the soil or the water used to moisten it. Almost every ifiant, when burned, leaves ashes, which commonly contain silica, potassa, and phosphate of lime; often, also, magnesia, soda, sulphates, and oxide of iron. These mineral bodies aj)pear to be es- sential to the existence of the vegetable tis- sues ; so that 2>^ants Avill not grow in soils destitute of them, however abundantly sup- plied with carbonic acid, ammonia, and Avater. The CARBON of plants is wholly derived from carbonic acid, Avhich is cither absorbed from the atmosphere, and from rain water, by the leaves, or from the moisture and air in the soil, by the roots. Its carbon is retained and assi- milated Avith the body of the plant, AAdiile its oxygen is given out in the gaseous form; this decomiiosition being always eflected under the influence of light at ordinary temiieratures. The HYDROGEN and oxygen of vegetables, which., Avhen combined Avith carbon, constitute the ligneous, starchy, gummy, saccharine, oily, and resinous matters of plants, are de- rived from Avater chiefly absorbed by the