20 ACETIC ACID. excess of strong and moderately pure acetic acidf rejecting that which first passes over. Acetate of soda may he safely dried at a tem- perature of400° to 450°, provided care he taken to avoid ignition from contact with sparks. A less heat is, however, quite sufficient to drive off the whole of its water of crystallisation. It is known to he dry hy it assuming the ap- pearance of a smooth oily liquid whilst hot. If, whilst heated, it emit fumes, it is suffering de- composition. The same applies to the other commercial acetates. Crystallised acetate of soda loses about §ths of its weight hy thorough drying. When acetate of soda and sulphuric acid are the ingredients employed in the production of ‘ acetic acid,’ sulphate op soda is formed, which, in the large way, the chemist returns to the manufacturer of acetate of soda (i. e., to the pyroligneous acid maker), who employs it in the decomposition of fresh acetate or py- rolignite of lime. In this way, the same basic material (soda) is employed over and over again, acting merely as the vehicle for the separation of the crude acetic acid in the solid form, and its easy and cheap transportation from one point to another. This ingenious method of mutual assistance resulting from the application of chemical science to provide for the wants of every-day life, offers some ex- planation of the extraordinarily low price at which acetic acid may now be purchased. The acetic acid of commerce (pure pyro- ligneous acid), is almost wholly obtained from the acetates of soda and lime. The principal supply of crude acetate (pyrolignite) of soda is from America, Norway, and Sweden; but much is also obtained from our home manufac- tories. See Acetipication, Acetimetry, Fermentation, Pyroligneous Acid, Soda (Acetate of). Vinegar, &c. Anhy'drous Acetic Acid. Syn. Gerhardt’s ACETIC ACID; ANHYDROUS ACETYL'IC ACID; Acetate op ace'tetyle ; Oxide op o'thyle. One of the anhydrous acids recently discovered by Gerhardt. It is regarded, by some authors, as the preceding acid free from chemically com- bined or basic water, as it exists in the dry acetates; an opinion disputed by others, and even by Gerhardt himself. Prep. 1. Well-fused acetate of potassa is mixed, in a glass retort, with about half its weight of chloride of benzoyle, and a gentle heat applied; a lively reaction ensues, and ANHYDROUS ACETIC ACID distils over, whilst chloride of sodium and anhydrous benzoic acid remain in the retort. The distillate is lastly submitted to careful rectification. 2. Oxychloride of phosphorus is added to a considerable excess of acetate of soda, and the mixture treated as before. Chloride op ACETYLE {chloride of othyle) is first formed, which reacting on the excess of undecomposed acetate in the retort, leads to the formation of ANHYDROUS ACETIC ACID, which distils over. Or directly, and more conveniently— 3. From a mixture of chloride of acetyle and dry acetate of soda, as before. Prop., Sfc. A limpid, colourless, oily liquid; smelling of acetic acid and hawthorn blossom; sp. gr. 1-073; boils at 278° to 279° Fahr.; at 58° or 60° it sinks in water, like heavy oil, and is immiscible with it; hot water resolves it into hydrated acetic acid. See Acids (Or- ganic). { Aromatic Acetic Acid. Syn. Aromatic VINEGAR; A. SPIRIT OP V.; ACIDUM ACE'- TicuM aromat'icum, L.—Prep. 1. (Ph. E. 1839.) Dried rosemary and origanum, of each, 1 oz.; lavender flowers, ^ oz.; bruised cloves, ^ dr.; acetic acid (sp. gr. 1'068), Ig pint; macerate for 7 days, express, and filter. A < fragrant and refreshing perfume. Omitted in i Ph. E. 1841. 2. (Ph. E. 1817.) As the last, but using ; distilled vinegar instead of the strong acid of ; the Pharmacopoeia. Inferior. ‘i 3. (P. Cod. 1839.) Camphor, 2 oz.; oil of lavender, 10 gr.; oil of cinnamon, 20 gr.; oil of cloves, 30 gr.; concentrated acetic acid, 1 pint. Very fragant and re- freshing. 4. (Ph. Bor. 1847; Cod. Med. Hamb. 1845.) Oil of cloves, 1 dr.; oils of lavender and citron, of each, 2 scrup.; oils of bergamot and thyme, of each, 1 scrup.; oil of cinnamon, 10 drops; strongest acetic acid, 1 oz.; mix. Limpid; yellow-brown; highly fragrant and refreshing. See Acetic Acid (Camphorated), and Vinegar (Aromatic). Beaufoy’s Acetic Acid. A superior com- mercial acetic acid (i. e., purified pyroligneous acid), having a sp. gr. of about 1-044; or con- I tabling about 28g of real acetic acid, or 32 to ", 33g of the hydrated acid. Cam'phorated Acetic Acid. Syn. Campho- rated VINEGAR; AcIDUM ACE'TICUM CAM- phora'tum, L.—Prep. 1. (Ph. E. 1841.) Cam- phor, 5 oz.; pulverise it by means of a few drops < of spirit of wine, and then dissolve nt in acetic acid (Ph. E.), 6^ fi. oz. 2. (Ph. D. 1850.) Camphor, 1 oz.; rectified spirit, 1 fl. dr.; pulverise, and dissolve in strong acetic acid (‘ acid. acet. forte’ Ph. D.), , 10^. oz. Obs. This preparation is intended as a substi- tute for the ‘ aromatic acetic acid’ of the shops i and previous pharmacopoeias. It is also ( useful as an embrocation, in rheumatism and I neuralgia; as an extemporaneous vesicant i and counter-irritant; and as a fumigation in ;i fevers, &c. { i, Dilute' Acetic Acid. Syn. Acidum aceticum j dilu'tum, L.—Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1851.) Acetic ,, acid (Ph. L.), 23 fl. dr.; distilled water, q. s. to make the whole accurately measure 1 pint. j Sp. gr. 1-008. “ One fluid ounce is (exactly) j \ saturated by 57 gr. of the crystals of carbonate j of soda.” It contains about 6g of hydrated I , acetic acid. 2. (Ph. D. 1850.) Acetic acid of commerce i (sp. gr. 1-044), 1 pint; distilled water, 7 pints ;