1142 PRINTS—PRUNES. until the resin is dissolved, when dry brown soap, cut into slices, If Ih., is further added (cautiously), and the ingredients are again stirred with the spatula until the whole is united, the pot being once more placed over the fire to promote the combination; when this is effected, the varnish is removed from the heat, and, after a good stirring, is covered over and set aside. b. The INK. Indigo and Prussian blue, of each, in fine powder, 2^ oz.; mineral lampblack (finest), 4 lb. / vegetable lampblack, 3^ lb.; stir them gradually into the warm varnish (a), and submit the mixture to careful grinding, either in a mill or by means of a slab and muller. On the large scale, steam power is now generally employed for this purpose. An extemporaneous superfine black ink may be made by the following formula:—Take of balsam of copaiba (pure), 9 oz.; lampblack, 3 oz.; indigo and Prussian blue, of each, ^ oz. ; Indian red, f oz.; yellow soap (dry), 3 oz.; grind the mixture to an impalpable smooth- ness by means of a stone and muller. Canada balsam may be substituted for balsam of copaiba where the smell of the latter is objectionable, but the ink then dries very quickly. Colo HEED feinting inks are made in a similar way from the following pigments:— Carmine, lakes, vermilion, chrome yellow, red lead, orange red, Indian red, Venetian red, for EED; orange chrome, chrome yellow, burnt terra di sienna, gall-stone, Roman ochre, yellow ochre, for oeange and yellow ; verdigris, Scheele’s green, Schweinfurt green, blues and yellows mixed, for GEEENS; indigo, Prussian blue, Antwerp b., cobalt b., charcoal b., for BLUE; lustre, bronze powders, &c., for me- tallic COLOUES j and umber, sepia, &c., for BEOWN. Obs. It is necessary to prepare two kinds of varnish, varying in consistence, from more or less boiling, to be occasionally mixed together as circumstances may require; that which answers well in hot weatherr being too thick in cold, and vice versa. Large characters also require a thinner ink than small ones. Old linseed oil is preferable to new. Yellow resin soap is preferred for black and dark-coloured inks, and white curd soap for light ones. A good varnish may be drawn into threads like glue, and is very thick and tenacious. The oil loses from lOg to 14g by the boiling. Mr. Savage obtained the large medal of the Society of Arts for his black ink made as above. PRINTS (Ackerman’s Liquor for). Prep. Take of the finest pale glue and white curd soap, of each, 4 oz.; boiling water, 3 pints; dissolve, then add of powdered alum, 2 oz. Used to size prints arid pictures before colouring them. PROOF. See Acetimetey, Alcoholome- TEY, &c. PROOFS (Correcting). The specimen on the opposite page, with the notes, will, if carefully I perused, put the reader into possession of all the secrets of this useful art. PRO'PIONE. See Metacetone. PROPIONTC ACID. An acid analogous to ACETIC ACID, produced by exposing propylic alcohol to the influence of oxidizing agents. It may also be formed by the action of hydrate of potassa, in a melted state, upon sugar. It is a colourless transparent liquid, having a pun- gent odour, something like that of acetic acid, and boiling at 287’6° Fahr. With the metallic oxides it forms crystalline salts (peopionates) which are soluble in water. The peopionate OP BAEYTA, when submitted to dry distillation, yields metacetone (which see.). PROPYL'AMINE. A base obtained by treating iodide of propyl with ammonia, by an analogous process to that employed for ethyl- amine. PROPYL'ENE. A hydrocarbon analogous to olefiant gas. It may be obtained from glycerin, and probably by the action of dehy- drating agents on propylic alcohol. PROPYL'IC ALCOHOL. Syn. Hydeated OXIDE OF PEOPYL, TeITYL ALCOHOL. A liquid boiling at 204*8° Fahr., obtained by repeatedly rectifying the first products of the distillation of the fusel-oil of marc-brandy. It stands tc ETHYLic ALCOHOL (ordinary alcohol) in the same relation in which the latter stands tc METHYLIC ALCOHOL (pyroxylic Spirit). PRO'TEIN. The name given by Mulder tc a substance which he regarded as the origins matter from which animal albumen, casein and FIBEIN, were derived; but which is nov considered as a product of the decompositior of those important principles by moderately strong caustic alkali. Prep. (Liebig.) Albumen, casein, or fibril is dissolved in moderately strong liquor q, potassa, the solution heated for some time t( 120° Fahr., and acetic acid added; a gelatinoui precipitate subsides, which, after being washef and dried, is ‘ peotein.’ Ohs. The names binoxide and teroxide q protein have been given by Mulder to pro ducts of the long-continued action of boiling water upon fibrin in contact with the air. PRO'TIDE. A soluble, straw-yellow sub stance, formed, along with other products, b; the action of strong solution of potassa on al bumen, fibrin, or casein. See Eeytheo PEOTIDE. PROTO-. See Nomenclatuee. PROVrSIONS (Preservation of). See Pr teefaction. PRUNES. [Fr.] The fruit of cultivatei varieties of Prunus domestica (Linn.). Th dried fruit (Feench peunes or plums ; pe^ NUM—Ph. L., PEUNA—Ph. E. & D.) is coolin and gently laxative, and, as such, is useful i habitual costiveness and fevers. Pulp of Prunes. Syn. Peepaeed peunes PULPA PEUNOEUM, PeUNUM PE.EPAEATUI (Ph. L.), L. Prep. The imported dried frui is boiled gently for four hours with water,.<\.i