ALK.4L01D. 104 ALCALOiDE, ALCALI OKGAXIQt'E, Fl’. Ill cTie- misiry, a name commonly given to any proxi- mate principle of vegetable origin possessing alkaline or basic properties, however feeble. In its most extended sense, the term embraces all ‘ organic bases,’ whether obtained from the animal or vegetable kingdom, or produced artificially. The alkaloids form a numerous and important class of bodies. They exist in nature always in tlie form of ‘ salts,’ the acid being often, like themselves, peculiar to the plant, or class of plants, in which they are found; whilst the medicinal activity of the latter, in most cases, almost entirely depends on their presence. Hist., ^c. The history of the alkaloids commences with the discovery of morphia, by Sertiirner, in 1803, and of Narcotina by Derosne, about the same period. These dis- coveries were confirmed by Robiquet in 1814. In 1816, Sertiirner, after several years of patient investigation, published a second me- moir, which drew general attention to this interesting class of bodies. The subject was subsequently taken up with considerable zeal by Caventou, Oouerbe, Dumas, Merck, Pelletier, Robiquet, and other leading continental che- mists, to whose researches Ave are principally indebted for our present knowledge of these substances. The objections which have been raised against the term alkaloid, on account of its hybrid etymology and vague signification, applies Avith equal for(!e to a vast number of technical terms, and is scarcely deserving of serious consideration. Prep. The following general methods of pro- curing the alkaloids will be found applicable to such as full directions are not given for under their respective heads :— 1. (When the hase is insoluble in ivater, non- volatile, and existing in the plant in an insoluble form.) The bruised plant is boiled or ma- cerated in water acidulated with hydrochloric or acetic acid, and the liquor, after filtration, is neutralised with an alkali (ammonia, potassa, lime, or magnesia); the precipitate is purified by re-solution in dilute acid, digestion Avith a little animal charcoal, and subsequent crystallisation, or re-precipitation Avith an alkali; or the first precipitate is purified by dissolving it once, or oftener, in boiling alcohol, Avhich yields the pure alkaloid eitlier on cooling or by evaporation. 2. (When the base is insoluble in water, and non-volatile, but existing in the plant in a solu- ble state.) The bruised or sliced plant is boiled or macerated in water, and the filtered liquor precipitated and otherwise treated as before. 3. (When the base is soluble in water, and non-volatile.) An infusion made with very di- lute acid (hydrochloric or acetic), is concen- trated by a gentle heat; and the residual liquor treated with potassa (or concentrated liquor of ammonia) and ether (conjointly); after repose, the etherial solution is decanted and CA-aporated. For those alkaloids AA'hich are insoluble in ether (as‘ morphia’ and ‘cinchonia’), the previous process may be adopted. 4. (When the base is both soluble in water and volatile.) The vegetable, in a bruised or divided state, or its extract, is alkalised with potassa and distilled; the distillate is neutral- ised with dilute oxalic or sulphuric acid, and carefully evaporated to dryness, the residuum is next digested in alcohol, and the resulting tincture agitated Avitli potassa and ether, the former being in quantity just siAfficient to seize on all the acid; lastly, the etherial solu- tion thus formed, on careful evaporation, leaves the ALKALOID nearly pure. It may be further purified by cautious distillation. As some of the alkaloids are soluble in excess - of the alkaline precipitant, over-saturation should be carefully avoided; or the precipitant may be used under the form of carbonate or bicarbonate. W’^hen lime and magnesia are em- ployed, they are boiled for a few minutes Avith the solution. Comp. The true alkaloids are compoimds of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen {azote), and oxygen, and may be distinguished by the mnemonic word “ chaos f Cde first four letters being the initials of their elements, and the final showing that they are salifiable. (Dr. Collier.) At a certain time Berzelius assumed, and Avith ap- parent reason, that all the alkaloids contain ; ready-formed ammonia, and that their basic properties and power of saturation are due to this ammonia. This view is not confirmed by ; more recent researches, which have brought I to light se\‘eral new substances of the class of J- Avhich the constitution is obviously different. Modern chemists regard all the true organic | alkalies or alkaloids as derived from the types | ‘ammonia/ or ‘oxide of ammonium;’ an i opinion supported by the startling fact, that I not only may the hydrogen in these types be i replaced by ‘metals,’ and ‘compoAAnd radicals,’ ! without the loss of their ‘ alkaline character,’ ! but even their nitrogen may be replaced by i ‘ phosphorus’ or ‘ arsenic,’ and yet the result- * ing compounds remain powerfully basic. ' Gen. prop,, 8fc. Some of the alkaloids are ! oily, volatile liquids; others are solid, crys- ' : tallisable, and permanent at common tempera- < ; tures. They are, for the most part, scarcely ’ i soluble in Avater, and only sparingly so in cold I ' alcohol, but are readily dissolved by boiling ; alcohol, from Avhich they are deposited, as the ! solution cools, in the form of crystals, or a i crystalline poAvder. Their taste is usually in- tensely bitter; some of them redden turmeric I paper, AA'hilst others scarcely affect it; with I the acids they form salts, Avhich are generally j crystallisable. They all contain nitrogen, have a very complicated constitution, and high com- bining numbers. They are decomposed Avith facility by nitric acid and heat, and ammonia i is always among the products of their destruc- tive distillation. j Phys. eff., fyc. The alkaloids generally pos- j 1 sess great medicinal poAver; some of them act j