39 ACOLOGY—ACONITINE. and antimony, may be administered, and perse- vered in until the skin is cleared. 4. Acne eosa'cea; Gutta e. ; Bac'chia (bak'-e-a); Acne b. ; Kost-deopJ. This is of a more serious character than the preceding, frequently attacking the nose and cheeks, producing tubercles, enlargement, and ulcera- tion, which sometimes permanently disfigure the features. “ It begins by very slowly throw- ing up a mound of red skin, and for months, perhaps, goes no further; then we see a chain of low barrows extending to another mound in the act of rising—sometimes two chains passing in different directions; or perhaps a mound in the distance which the chain goes to meet.” Wherever the skin is hemmed in by these pimply ridges, it is as red as the pimples themselves. After a time, the whole nose, and probably a portion of the adjacent face, is co- vered by them, and marked by large veins, which spread out their branches like the tribu- tary streams of a large river. When the cir- culation is active, they are fully distended, and brightly red. In cold weather, they are bluish, and even livid in hue. (Erasmus Wilson.) This variety of acne is a frequent consequence of hard drinking, and hence the terms “ bacchia” and “ acne bacchia,” applied to itj but it sometimes arises from other causes.— Treat. Extreme temperance and an unstimulating diet must be here adopted, together with the external use of some weak cooling lotion, as that of Goulard-water. It is sometimes necessary to press out the con- tents of the pustules, which often resemble ‘ grubs’ in appearance; or to apply small poul- tices, to promote suppuration. A slight alter- ative course of Plummer's pill, or of solution of arscnite of potassa, or of Donovan's solution, assisted with decoction of sarsaparilla or of sassafras, often proves serviceable. A course of sulphurous mineral waters, or of sulphur- baths, may also be tried. The perfect cure of this species of ‘ acne’ is seldom accomplished. In many cases it appears hereditary. The simple forms of the other varieties generally yield to a weak lotion of sulphate of zinc, or of bichloride of mercury, assisted by some mild laxative, and regular habits and diet. ACOL'OGY, or Akol'ogy. Syn. Acolo'gia, L. In medicine, the doctrine of remedies, or of the materia medica; or a treatise or discourse on it. AC'ONITE (-nlte; aconi'te, as Eng., is ob- solete). Syn. Aconi'tum, L. ; Aconit, Fr.; Axonititm, Eisenhut, Stfemhxjt, Ger. Monkshood; wolfsbane. In botany, a genus of exogenous plants. Nat. ord., Kanunculaceae; Sex. syst., Polyandria Trigynia. They are characterised by showy purple or yellow helmet- sha])edgrowing in panicles, deeply-cut leaves, and perennial (usually) tap-shaped or tapering roots. The whole plant is highly poisonous, the roots being more poisonous than the leaves. In medicine and materia medica, tlic ]ilaut aconitum napellus (see below). Pois.—Symp. Numbness and tingling in the mouth and throat, which are parched; followed by giddiness, dimness of sight, and (sometimes) delirium, but seldom complete coma; there is numbness and tingling of the limbs, a loss of power in the legs, (in some cases) frothing at the mouth, severe abdominal pains, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea; tremors or twitchings of the volun- tary muscles, (sometimes) convulsions (in ani- mals, but not in man); sharp cries; pupil {gene- rally) dilated, very rarely contracted; pulse, fitful and sinking; skin, cold and livid; difiiculty of breathing; general prostration; loss of sensa- tion or feeling; insensibility, general trembling, fainting, and sudden death. The eyes are often glaring; and, in some cases, the patient is com- pletely paralysed, yet retains consciousness to the last. The case generally proves fatal in from 1 to 8 hours. If it last beyond this period there is hope of recovery. (Fleming.)—Treat., ant., ^c. See Alkaloids.—Lesions. General congestion of the venous system. The brain and membranes are gorged; and there is fre- quently redness or signs of inflammation of the mucous membrane of the whole alimentary canal. See Aconitine and Aconitum. ACONITTC acid. Syn. Acidum Aconit'i- CUM, L. An acid, discovered by Peschier in ‘ aconitum napellus,’ and by Braconnot in the ‘equisetum fluviatile.’ It exists in the juice, combined chiefly with lime. Prep. From the filtered expressed juice, in the way described under Absinthic acid. It may be purified by solution in ether, and care- ful evaporation. Prop. It forms a white, odourless, semi- crystalline mass. Its salts are called acon'i- TATES. It is identical with pyeociteic acid (which see). ACONI'TINE (-tm; acon'itine, though more us., is less corr.). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Aconi'tina (-te-na; pop., aconiti'na), Aco- Ni'TA^ Aconi"tia* (-nish'-y’a), L.; Azon- ITIN, Ger. An alkaloid discovered in 1833, by Gieger and Hesse, in the aconite, in which it exists in combination with aconitic acid. It is found in every species of the genus ^ aco- nitum,’ and in every portion of the plant, but more especially in the roots. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Take of the root of aconite, dried and bruised, 2 lb.; rectified spirit, 3 gal.; (gently) boil former in one- third of the spirit, for an hour, in a retort connected with a well-cooled receiver; pour off the liquor, and again boil with another gal. of the spirit, adding also that w'hich has passed over into the receiver. Repeat the same a third time. Then press the aconite, distil off the ‘ spirit’ from the mixed tinctures, and evaporate what remains to the consistence of an extract. Dissolve this in distilled water, filter, and again gently evaporate to the con- sistence of a syrup ; to this add of dilute sul- phuric acid, q. s., to dissolve the aconitine. Next precipitate with solution of ammonia, and dissolve the precipitate in very dilute sulph.