TOLUOL—TOOTH CEMENTS. 1289 ibasic, and possesses an aromatic odour and flavour. , TOIU'OL. Syn. Benzoene. A peculiar 'liquid hydrocarbon, found among the products of the destructive distillation of balsam of \Tolu which has been previously freed from essential oil by distillation along with water. From these it is obtained pure by a second I distillation. It may also be prepared by dis- tilling toluylic acid with lime or baryta. It is jan ethereal liquid, which is sparingly soluble !in alcohol, freely so in ether, and boils at 226° Fahr. Sp. gr.’870. TOLUYL'IC ACID. An organic acid, ob- tained by Dr. Noad, by the action of dilute \ nitric acid on cymol. It closely resembles ! benzoic acid. i TOM'BAC. A species of brass with excess of zinc. Red tombac is red brass or Dutch gold; WHITE TOMBAC, an alloy of copper with arsenic. TONTCS. Medicines that increase the tone of the muscular fibre, and impart vigour to jthe system. The principal mineral tonics are—iron, zinc, copper, silver, arsenic, bismuth, I mercury, and the mineral acids. The principal 1 VEGETABLE TONICS are—cinchona, cinchonine, I quinine, the vegetable bitters, and some of the I aromatics. Of the above, iron, bark and its I preparations, and the aromatic bitters, are ' those generally employed, and which prove I most genial to the constitution. Many tonics, I as cinchona and quinine, are remarkable for I curing diseases of a periodic character. Iron I appears to act by altering or improving the ' condition of the blood; whilst the vegetable ■ bitters probably act indirectly by giving tone ‘ to the stomach. I TON'QUIN EEM'EDY. Syn. Pultis Teijn- I CHINENSIS, P. ALEXIPHARMICUS SiNENSIS, L. Prep. From valerian, 20 gr.; musk, 16 gr.; camphor, 6 gr.; mix. Antispasmodic and alexiterial, in doses of 6 to 12 gr., in hooping- I cough, &c.; 1 dr., in hydrophobia, exanthe- ' mata, and mania. I TOOTHACHE. Syn. Odontalgia, L. This I annoying affection frequently arises from sym- j pathy with a disordered stomach. In such I cases a saline purgative should be administered, i and an emetic, if required. When cold is the I cause, an excellent remedy is a hot embrocation j of poppy-heads, followed by the use of flannel I and diaphoretics. When it arises from a hollow j or decayed tooth, the best application is a piece of . I lint moistened with creasote or a strong spi- rituous solution of creasote, and closely rammed ■ into the cavity of the tooth. Laudanum, the i essential oils of cloves, caraway, and cajeput, ' and essence or tincture of pellitory of Spain, ; are also used in the same way. To prevent I the recurrence of the latter kind of toothache, I the cavity should be filled with an amalgam of I gold, or with mineral marmoratum, or some I other good cement. In many cases, chewing a piece of good ginger, or, still better, a small piece of pellitory, will afford relief in a few minutes. The celebrated John Wesley recom- mended a ‘few whiffs’ at a pipe containing a little caraway seed mixed with the tobacco. A slight ‘ shock ’ from a voltaic battery will often instantly remove the toothache after all other means have failed. See Drops, Essence, Tincture, &c. TOOTH CEMENTS. Prep. 1. Amalgam of gold, applied warm. Silver, and even tin, are also used in the same way. 2. A piece of purified white gutta percha, softened in hot water, and applied at once. EflBcient and durable. 3. Zinc filings, 1 part; quicksilver, 2 parts; mixed, and applied at once. Not very durable. 4. (Bernotte’s.) From powdered mastic mixed with about half its weight of ether, and, afterwards, with enough finely powdered burnt alum to form a stiff paste. ‘ Taveare’s Cement’ is similar. 5. (Evans.) Pure tin, 2 parts; cadmium and bees^ wax, of each, 1 part; melt them to- gether, cast the compound metal into a small ingot, and reduce it to filings. For use, form these into a liquid amalgam with quicksilver, q. s.; squeeze out the excess of quicksilver through a piece of chamois leather, and at once apply it to the tooth. (See No. 9.) Recommended as very durable and unobjection- able. 6. (‘ Marmora TDM.’) From anhydrous phos- phoric acid, 12 gr.; pure caustic lime, 13 gr.; both finely pulverized, mixed rapidly in a mor- tar, and applied, in the dry state, as rapidly as possible, as it soon becomes moist; the mixed powder, after being well pressed in, is smoothed off with the finger moistened with a drop of water. This is white and durable, and soon acquires great hardness. In its compo- sition it resembles the natural earthy matter of the teeth. 7. (‘ Mineral marmorathm.’) The same as ‘ mineral succedaneum’ (No. 9), with the ad- dition of a little powdered glass or quartz. A common sort is made of levigated glass mixed with amalgam of tin. 8. (‘Mineral metallic cement.’) Add finely levigated steel filings to some mineral succedaneum. Dark coloured inferior to ‘ mi- neral marmoratum.^ 9. (‘ Mineral stjccedaneitm.’) This is merely amalgam of gold first above noticed. The common method of proceeding is to heat \pure gold in a bright iron ladle, and to add enough pure mercury to render it of a doughy consistence at the heat of hot water; when cold, the excess of mercury, if any, must be removed by pressure in a piece of chamois lea- ther. For use, a little must be kneaded, as hot as possible, in the hand, and at once wedged into the cavity of the tooth. 10. (Ostermaier’s.) Same as No. 6. 11. (‘PouDRE metallique.’) The article sold in Paris under this name is said to be a triple amalgam of mercury, silver, and ammo- nium, with the latter in excess; part of the