402 CARTHAMINE—CASjSiNE. unless young and well dressed, carrots are rather indigestible. CAR'THAMINE. Syn. Pure rouge, Sap'- PLOWER CARMINE, SaPPLOWER LAKE. The red colouring matter of Carthamus tinctorius or safflower, formerly much used as a dye, particularly in the form of pink saucers for dyeing stockings. Prep. 1. Safflower, exhausted by washing it with water (or with w^ater acidulated with acetic acid), is dried, coarsely pulverized, and the powder digested in a weak solution of car- bonate of soda ; pieces of clean white cotton or calico are then immersed in the solution, and acetic acid gradually added in slight excess; the cotton is next washed, dried, and digested in a fresh quantity of dilute solution of carbonate of soda, and agitation employed until the whole of the colour is again dis- solved ; the new solution is filtered and slightly super-saturated with citric acid (or acetic acid); the carthamine, which falls down in rich carmine-red fiocks, is lastly w'ashed with cold distilled water, and dried, 2. Washed safflower (dried and powdered), any quantity; aqueous solution of carbonate of soda (containing 15g of carbonate), q. s. to form a thick paste; after some hours press out the red liquor, nearly neutralise it with acetic acid, put in cotton as before, and add acetic acid in slight excess; the next day remove the cotton and wash it in water holding in solution 5g of carbonate of soda, until the colour is dissolved out, after which precipitate with citric acid, as before. Prop., 8(c. An amorphous, brilliant, green- ish powder; nearly insoluble in water, soluble in alcohol, forming a gorgeous purple solution, and in weak alkaline lyes, giving an equally beautiful red one. CAR'THAMUS. Syn. Sap'plower. In bo- tany, a genus of composite plants, the most important species of which is Carthamus tinc- torius, the safflower. The florets of this yield a beautiful pink dye (see above), and are sometimes used to adulterate hay saffron. The ''cake saffron’* of the shops consists entirely of safflower and mucilage. The fruits, commonly called “ seeds,’’ yield by expression the useful oil known in India as Koosum oil. CARYOPH'YLLINE. Syn. Clove camphor. Clove resin. A resinous substance, extracted from Molucca cloves by means of alcohol. By repeated evaporations and re-solutions, it may be obtained in a satiny, crystalline form. It is odourless, tasteless, fusible, volatile, and soluble both in alcohol and ether. It is red- dened by sulphuric acid. CARYOPH'YLLUS. See Clove. CASCARIL'LA. Syn. Cascaril'la (Ph. L.), L. The bark of Croton eleutheria or the seaside balsam, a tree growing in the Bahamas and Jamaica^ It is an aromatic bitter, stomachic, and tonic. Dose. 10 gr. to 30 gr. in the form of powder, infusion, or tincture; in diarrhoea, dy- sentery, dyspepsia, low fevers, intermittents,&c. CASCARILTINE. Syn. Cascaril'lina. Prep. (Duval.) Cascarilla is exhausted with cold water, by percolation, precipitated witli acetate of lead, and the filtrate treated with sulphuretted hydrogen (see absinthic acid); the filtered liquid, after agitation with animal charcoal and filtration, is gently evaporated to dryness. The powder is redissolved in boiling alcohol and crystallized by very slow or by spontaneous evaporation. It has a bitter taste, and acid reaction; its aqueous solution is un- affected by the ferric salts and tincture of galls. Dose. 1 to 3 gr.; in dvspepsia, &c. CASE-HARD'EiraG. Syn. Steel sur'- PACING-. The operation of giving a surface of steel to iron goods. Tools, fire-irons, fenders, keys, &c., are usually case-hardened. Process. 1. The goods (finished in every respect but polishing) are put into an iron box, and covered with animal or vegetable char- coal, and “ cemented ” at a red heat, for a period varying with the size and description of the articles operated on; these, when taken out, are hardened by plunging into water, or oil, if they are of a delicate nature. 2. (Moxon.) Cow’s horn or hoofi^ baked or thoroughly dried, and pulverized; to this is added an equal quantity of bay salt, and the whole is made into a paste with stale chamber-lye, or white wine vinegar; the iron is covered with this mixture, and bedded in it, in loam, or inclosed in an iron box. In this form it is laid on the hearth of the forge to dry and harden, then it is put into the fire, and blown till the lump has a blood-red heat (no higher). It is hardened as before. 3. Coat the goods with a paste made of a concentrated solution of prussiate of potash and loam; then expose them to a strong red heat, and when it has fallen to a dull red, plunge the whole into cold water. 4. The goods, previously polished and finished, are heated to a bright-red and rubbed or sprinkled over with pr-ussiate of potash. As soon as the prussiate appears to be decomposed and dissipated, the articles are plunged into cold water. Obs. The process of case-hardening has been well conducted when the surface of the metal proves sufficiently hard to resist a file. The last two plans are a great improvement upon the common method. By the topical application of prussiate of potash (ferrocyanide of potassium) any part of a piece of iron may be case-hardened, without interfering with the rest. Case-Hardening Powders. Syn. Case- hardening- COMROSITIONS. 1. Prussiate of potash, dried and powdered. 2. Prussiate of potash, 3 parts; sal ammonia, 1 part; mix. 3. Sal ammoniac and bone-dust, of each, 2 parts; prussiate of potash, 1 part. (See above.) CA'SEINE. Syn. Ca'seum, Ca'sein, Lact- ALBU'MEN, Albumen op mile. The nitro-