NARCOGENINE—NERVOUS FEVER. 935 I in 376 parts of water at 60°, and in 230 parts I at 212° Fahr.j insoluble in ether; does not ' neutralize the acids, and is destitute of basic ! properties. It is distinguished from morphine by its easier fusibility (198°), and by forming 1 a blue liquid with the dilute mineral acids, ' which on gradual dilution changes to violet i and rose red, and ultimately becomes colour- ! less. It does not strike a blue colour with sesquichloride of iron, like morphine, but I forms a blue compound with starch. It I appears to be inert; and has not been applied ' to any useful purpose. ' NARCOGEN'INE. A basic substance, of little importance, resulting from the oxidation I of narcotine by bichloride of platinum. I NARCOTICS. Syn. Stijpefacients ; Nae- ‘ COTICA, Stupefacientia, L. Medicines which ' produce drowsiness, sleep, and stupor. In j small doses, narcotics mostly act as stimulants, I but in larger ones they produce calmness of I mind, drowsiness, and torpor; and in poisonous ! doses, delirium, coma, and death. The general objects in the administration of these agents are the production of sleep and the alleviation of pain. Their action is modified to a greater degree by idiosyncracy and habit than that of, perhaps, any other class of medicines. Hence i the care necessary in their administration. I Alcohol, camphor, chloroform, ether, foxglove, I hemlock, henbane, morphia, opium, and tobacco, are narcotics. I NAR'COTINE. Syn. Naecotina, L.; See j d’opiijm:, Matieee de Deeosne, Fr. A pe- culiar crystalline substance, found by Derosne j in opium, and on which its stimulant property I was at first supposed to depend. I Prep. 1. From opium exhausted of soluble j matter by cold by treating it with water 1 acidulated with acetic or hydrochloric acid, fil- I tering, neutralizing with ammonia, and dis- i solving the washed precipitate in boiling al~ I cohol; the narcotine is deposited as the liquid j cools, and may be purified by solution in I ether. ' 2. By acting on opium (previously exhausted by cold water) with ether. \ Prop., &^c. White, inodorous, fluted or i striated prisms; neutral to test paper; in- ' soluble in cold water; sparingly soluble in boiling water; freely soluble in boiling alcohol ! and in ether. It is only feebly basic. Narcotine is distinguished from moephine ‘ by its insipidity, solubility in ether, insolu- I bility in alkalies, giving an orange tint to I nitric acid, and a greasy stain to paper when ' heated on it over a candle. Another test for ! narcotine, said by Orfila to be characteristic, ! is to add to a little of the suspected substance I a drop or two of oil of vitriol, and then to add a very small fragment of nitrate of pot assa ; the liquid speedily acquires a deep blood-red ' colour if narcotine is present. Morphine treated in the same way strikes a brown or I olive-green colour. Obs. The physiological action of narcotine is differently stated by different authorities. 1 gr. of it, dissolved in olive oil, killed a dog in 24 hours; but 24 gr. dissolved in acetic acid were given with impunity. (Magendie.) In the solid state it is inert; 129 gr. at a dose scarcely produce any obvious effects. (Bally.) Scruple doses have been given without injury. (Dr. Roots.) It has been recently proposed as a substitute for quinine in the cure of agues. For this purpose the sulphate or hydro- chlorate is preferable. 200 cases of inter- mittent and remittent fevers have been thus successfully treated in India. (Dr. O’Shaugh- nessy.) Dose. 3 to 10 gr., as an antiperiodic, sedative, &c. Turkey opium contains about Ig, and East Indian opium about 3g, of narcotine. NATRIUM. See Sodium. NATRON. Native sesquicarbonate of soda. NAU'SEA. See Sickness. NAU'SEANTS. Syn. Nauseantia, L. Sub- stances which induce an inclination to vomit, without effecting it. See Emetics. NECTAR. The fabled drink of the my- thological deities. The name was formerly given to wine dulcified with honey; it is now occasionally applied to other sweet and plea- sant beverages of a stimulating character. The following liqueues are so called:— Prep. 1. Chopped raisins, 2 lb.; loaf sugar, 4 lb.; boiling water, 2 gall.; mix, and stir frequently until cold, then add 2 lemons, sliced; proof spirit (brandy or rum), 3 pints; macerate in a covered vessel for 6 or 7 days, occasionally shaking, next strainVith pressure, and let the strained liquid stand in a cold place for a week to clear; lastly, decant the clear portion, and bottle it. 2. Red ratifia, 3 gall.; oils of cassia and carraway, of each, 25 drops; (dissolved in) brandy, ^ pint; orange wine, 1 gall.; sliced oranges, 6 in no.; lump sugar, 2 lb.; macerate for a week, decant and bottle. See Aeeack (Factitious). NE'GUS. A well-known beverage, so named after its originator and patron. Colonel Negus. It is made of either port or sherry wine, mixed with about twice its bulk of hot water, sweet- ened with lump sugar, and flavoured with a little lemon Juice and grated nutmeg, and a small fragment only of the yellow peel of the lemon. The addition of about 1 drop of essence of ambergris, or 8 or 10 drops of essence of vanilla, distributed between about a dozen glasses, improves it. NEPENTHE. A drink calculated to banish the remembrance of grief. In the “Odyssey” Homer describes Helen as administering it to Telemachus. Nothing is known respecting the composition of the ancient ^ nepenthe.^ The name is applied to a preparation of opium by many old writers, and is now employed by a Bristol firm to designate a preparation re- sembling in all essential points Battley^s * LIQUOE OPII SEDATIVES.’ NER'VOUS FETER. Syn. Febeis NEEVOSi.,