190 ANTIMONY. vessel; boil for 20 minutes, and filter through | calico, allowing the filtrate to drop into sul- phuric acid, 2 fi. oz., diluted with water, 1 quart; then collect the precipitate in a calico- filter, wash it with warm distilled water, and dry it on porous bricks in a warm atmosphere. 5. (Ph. D. 1826.) Prepared sulphuret of antimony, 1 part; water of caustic potash, 18 parts; diluted sulphuric acid, 11 parts; or q. s.; as before. 6. (Ph. Han. nova, 1831.) From levigated black antimony and sulphur, equal parts; liquor of potassa, q. s.; boiled together until nearly dissolved; the solution being then mixed with tivice its volume of hot water is set aside for 24 hours, when it is filtered; the fil- trate is next further diluted with 3 times its volume of distilled water, and precipitated with dilute sulphuric acid, very gradually dropped in; lastly, the precipitated oxtsulphijeet is to be washed and dried as before, and pre- served in a dark place. The product has a very bright colour, and contains a large pro- portion, if it does not consist chiefly of pex- TASULPHrSET OF ANTIMONY. 7. COMMEECIAL:—a. From sulphuret of an- timony, in powder, 1 part; quicklime (slaked, after being weighed, with a little water), 2 parts; water, 20 parts; mix, boil, as before, for an hour, strain, and precipitate with hy- drochloric acid, in excess, and added at once, or as quickly as possible; lastly, collect, wash, and dry the precipitate, as before. b. From sulphur, 1 part; sulphuret of anti- mony, 2 parts; carbonate of potassa, 4 parts; fused together, and the solution afterwards precipitated with a large excess of dilute sul- phuric acid; as in No. 4 (above). Very bright- coloured. c. From sulphuret of antimony, 7 parts; dry carbonate of soda, 6 parts; hydrate of lime, 4 parts; sulphur, 2 ^larts; sulphuric or muri- atic acid, q. s.; as 7. a., above. Very bright- coloured. As 7. a (above), but precipitating the solution with a mixture of hydrochloric acid, 93 parts; sulphuric acid (diluted before ad- mixture), 7 parts. The product is bright- coloured, but contains a little sulphate of lime. Prop. A red, brownish-red, or orange- coloured, odoui’less, and almost tasteless pow- der; insoluble in water; soluble in liquor of potassa, forming a colourless solution; readily catches fire, and burns with a bluish-green flame, exhaling sulphurous fumes and leaving a grayish-white oxide behind. Pur. It is “of a golden-red colour; en- tirely soluble in boiling solution*of potassa; almost entirely soluble in hot hydrochloric acid, hydrosulphuric acid being evolved, and a little sulphur remaining. These solutions are free from colour.” (Ph. L.) It should not efiervesce with dilute acids. Uses, 4*c. It is alterative, diaphoretic, ex- pectorant, emetic, or tonic, according to the dose, similar to the other antimonials.—Dose. I i gr. to 2 or 3 gr.; as an emetic, 5 to 15 or > 20 gr. It is chiefly used as an alterative (1 to 3 gr., in pills, 2 or 3 times daily, combined r with mercmy, or with opium, guaiacum, or sarsaparilla), in various chronic diseases, parti- cularly hepatic and other cutaneous affections, glandular enlargements, secondary syphilis, j rheumatism, liver complaints, &c. Plummer’s | pill {pil. hydrargyri chloridi co., Ph. L., is a favorite form of its administration. For horses, i the dose is to 2 dr., chiefly in chronic fevers, glandular enlargements, and obstinate skin diseases. Comp. According to the Edinburgh College, it is “a mixture or compound of sesquisul- phuret of antimony, sesquioxide of antimony, and sulphur.” Others regard it as a hydrated tersulphuret of antimony (Berz.; Rose), or a hydrated oxysulphuret (Ph. L.; Gay-Lussac). Mr. R. Phillips states its composition to be— Atom. Eq. wt. Per ceut. Peroxide of antimonyi . . . 1 . . . 153 . . . 12’ Tersulphuret of antimony . 5 . . . 885 . . . 76‘5 Water 16 . . . 141 . . . 115 Oxys^plmret of antimony,-^ jqq. but Dr. Pereira failed, by aid of the micro- scope, to detect crystals of teroxide of antimony in it—a fact w^hich does not, however, disprove its presence in another form. It is probably a mixture of amorphous tersulphuret of anti- mony (Sb Sg) with some pentasulphuret (Sb Sg) > and water; the presence of teroxide, as well as . its quantity, being an accidental and unes- sential, though usual condition, although re- garded as an essential constituent by Liebig. The bright-coloured oxysulphuret of the shops appears to consist chiefly of pentasulphuret of antimony, (Sb Sg, 2Sb Sj,) and water. The whole subject is, however, far from being set- tled, or even likely to be so. Concluding Remarks. It has long been a matter of complaint among manufacturers of the above article, that the processes and pro- portions ordered by the British Colleges pro- duce a darker coloured and less showy prepa- ration than that demanded in trade. If mere beauty of appearance added to the curative power of a medicine, this complaint would be a just one; but such is not the case. On the contrary, several of the most showy specimens of oxysulphuret of antimony that have fallen under our notice, have been those the least carefully prepared, and containing the greatest amount of impurity. The variations of colour ’i chiefly depend on the quantity of water em- ployed, the temperature of the liquor at the time of the precijiitation, the quantity of the precipitant, and the mode in which it is used; and to these variations in the process, trivial differences of composition may also be referred. The superior brightness of the products from i 1 By boiling in a solution of ‘ bitartrate of potassa/ it | loses the tvl/ole of its teroxide. (Phillips.) I 2 In this analysis 129 is assumed to be the equivalent I weight of antimony. See Api'exdix. I