! in close vessels, or by evaporation in vacuo, V 3 See page 138 (iint^,). ,1 144 AMMONIA. chloric acid’ ami ‘protochloride of iron/ or- dered above, the product is sulphate of am- monia. 3. From peat.—a. (Mr. Hills. Patent dated 1846.) By igniting peat, placed upright in a furnace, and passing the smoke through a suitable series of condensers. b. (Drew&Stocken, 1846.) By the destructive distillation of peat in close iron-retorts, similar to those employed in the carbonisation of wood. c. (Reece, 1819.) As 3, a., but promoting the combustion by means of a blast of air. The products are tar, am\noniacal liquor, naph- tha, &c. The first is subsequently separated for the production of pahaffine oil, &c. ; the second is neutralised with an acid (‘ hydrochlo- ric’ or ‘ sulphuric’), then distilled tor its naph- tha, and, after evaporation, sublimed, in the usual way, either with or without accord- ing as SESQUICAllBONATE OF AMMONIA, Or the SULPHATE or CHLOEIDE, may be the product sought. It is stated, that from 22| lb. (Dr. Hodges) to 24| lb. (Sir R. Kane) of sulphate OF AMMONIA may be obtained from a ton of peat. 4. From oxides of nitrogen and carbu- BETTED HYDROGEN. (Crane and Jullien. Pa- tent dated 1818.) In this process a mixture of any of the oxides of nitrogen v.dth a slight excess^ of any gaseous carburet of hydrogen, or any mixture of hydrogen and a compound of carbon, or even free hydrogen, is passed through a large tube or pipe containing any substance capable of exerting catalytic action on the gases, and heated to about 600° Fahr.; the exit end of this tube being connected with an ordinary carbonate-of-ammonia condenser. This condenser is fitted with a safety-tube, to allow of the escape of uncondensed matter, which, by means of it, is made to pass through a solution of ammonia, or of a salt of iron— the latter being preferred, and through water, for the purpose of retaining the ‘ hydrocyanic acid’ collaterally formed, and any ‘free am- monia’ that may have escaped being carbo- nated. Oxides of nitrogen (such, for instance, as the gases evolved in the manufacture of ‘ oxalic acid’) however procured, and any gaseous compound of carbon and hydrogen, or such mixture of ‘ hydrogen’ and ‘ carbonic acid’ or ‘ carbonic oxide’ as results from the contact of the vapour of Avater with ignited carbonaceous matter, may be employed in the process. The catalytic substance may be either ‘ spongy platinum,’ or ‘ platinised asbestos,’ or ‘asbestos coated with platinum-foil j’ the first being preferred. The products are sesquicar- BONATE OF AMMONIA (chiefly), CYANIDE OF AMMONIU3I, and free^AMMONiA.^ Sesquicarbonate of ammonia, like the chlo- ride and sulphate, is now scarcely ever pre- pared on the small scale; that of commerce being not only cheaper, but sufficiently pure for I Knownljy ih.Q\ahsence,ot red fumes on ;illoAving a little of the gaseous matter, after it has passed over the spongy platinum, to^comeln’coutact with atmosplieric air. all the purposes of medicine and the arts. The y> PRICE ranges from 30£ to 35£ per ton, accord- ,|- ing to the quality. See Ammonia; Carbonate, | Hydrochlorate, and Sulphate of Ammo- 'I,; NiA; Ac. 3. Bicarbonate of Ammonia. Syn. Bicae- ; DONATE OF OXIDE OF AmMO"NIUM ; - SUPER- j CAR'donate of a:mmonia *; Berthollet’s ^ Neutral carbonate of AMMONiAf; Ammo". NLE BICAR'BONAS (Ph. D.), L. ; BICARBONATE j d’ammoniaque, Fr. This salt is not officinal in the London Pharmacopoeia. Prep. 1. (Ph. D. 1850.) Commercial ses- quicarbonate of ammonia, in fine powder, is to be spread on a sheet of paper, and exposed to the air for 24 hours; and then preserved iu a Avell-stopped bottle. 2. (Ph. D. 1826.) Pass a stream of carbonic acid gas through a strong solution of carbonate (sesquicarbonate) of ammonia in water, to full saturation; let it rest, and then drain and dry the crystals that form, without heat, and preserve them in stoppered bottles. Crys- tallisation is promoted by forcing in the a gas under pressure, and by subsequent refrige- | ; ration. J, 3. cold tvater on sesquicarbonate , ] of ammonia in considerable excess, until the whole of the pungent neutral carbonate is \ dissolved out. If the salt is reduced to poAV-- der, the operation is facilitated. 4. (Rose.) To powdered sesquicarbonate of ammonia add boiling water just sufficient to dissolve it, and immediately close the vessel; crystals form as the liquid cools containing 2^ i equiv. of water. Prop., c\’c. For the most part similar to the sesquicarbonate, except in having a taste and smell which is only faintly ammoniacal, and hence, more palatable. Crystallises in oblique prisms, which, as usually obtained, contain 2 equiv. or about 23g of water. It requires 8 parts of cold water to dissolve it. It is distinguished from the previous carbonates by the almost entire absence of ammoniacal , odour; and by its solution giving no imme- diate precipitate with chloride of barium, but by standing, or on the addition of a little liquor of ammonia, a white earthy precipitate accompanied with the evolution of carbonic acid gas. A saturated solution of this salt, ev'aporated by a very gentle heat, or refrigerated, gives small prismatic crystals, having neither smell nor taste. Uses, Sfc. Similar to those of the other car- i bonates.— Bose, 6 or 7, to 20 or 25 gr. Chlorhy'drate of Ammonia. See Hydro- ' chlorate of Ammonia. Cit'rate of Ammonia. Syn. Citrate of ,, OXIDE OF AMM0"NIUM; AMM0"NIJE CIT'RAS, L. Prep. A concentrated solution of pure citric I acid, gently heated, is saturated with sesqui- I carbonate of ammonia, in fine powder, (about 7 I parts to 6,) and slightly in excess; and the <|J ' resulting liquid is crystallised by refrigeration U