925 MORPHINE. IMOKPUINE; these are separated by boiling j etherj in which the former is soluble. I Pro]). The morphine of commerce is a white ' crystalline powder; but when crystallized from I alcohol, it forms brilliant prismatic crystals of ! adamantine lustre. It exerts an alkaline reac- ' tion on test paper; imparts a perceptible bitter [taste to water; requires 1160 parts of cold! : water, and 94 parts of boiling water, for its [ solution; insoluble in ether; dissolves in 90 I parts of cold and about 30 parts of boiling I alcohol j it also dissolves in the fixed and vola- I tile oils, and in solutions of the alkalies; heated ; in close vessels, it forms a yellow liquid, like j melted sulphur, which becomes Avhite and I crystalline on cooling; heated in the air, it I melts, inflames like a resin, and leaves a small j I quantity of charcoal behind. With the acids it forms salts, which are mostly soluble and crystallizable. These may all be made by the direct solution of the alkaloid in the dilute acid. The only ones of importance are the I ACETATE, HYDEOCHLOEATE, and SULPHATE. I Pur. Commercial morphia and its prepara- I tions are often contaminated with codeine, |naecotine, and coloueino mattee. The i proportion of the first two may be estimated by the loss of weight which the sample suffers I when digested in ether; or by dissolving out jthe morphine by digestion in weak liquor of i potassa. Pure morphine “ is scarcely soluble ! in cold water, sparingly so in boiling water, and I readily so in alcohol. This solution is alkaline to test paper, and by evaporation leaves crys- ! tals, which are wholly dissipated by heat. It i is soluble in pure potassa.^’ (Ph. L. 1836.) I Tests. 1. Potassa and ammonia precipitate I morphine from solutions of its salts, under the form of a white crystalline powder, which is very soluble in excess of potassa, and, with somewhat more difficulty, in excess of am- monia. The solution formed by excess of the ! first is precipitated on the addition of bicar- ! bonate of potassa. The precipitate in either I case is soluble in a solution of hydrochlorate of ammonia, and in dilute acetic acid, and is in- i soluble in ether. A careful inspection of the ! precipitate through a lens of small power I shows it to consist of minute acicular crystals ; ! and seen through a glass which magnifies 100 ! times, these crystals present the form of right ! rhombic prisms.—2. The carbonates of potassa I and soda produce the same precipitate as po- : tassa, and which is insoluble in excess of the I precipitant.—3. The bicarbonates of potassa ' and soda also give similar precipitates from ! neutral solutions, insoluble in excess. In each 1 of the above cases stirring with a glass rod and I friction on the sides of the vessel promote the separation of the precipitate.—4. If to a mix- I ture of morphine and oil of vitriol a minute fragment of bichromate of potassa be added, I oxide of chromium is set free, and a fine green I colour developed.—5. A drop or two of solu- ; tion of terchloride of gold added to a weak solution of morphine gives a yellow precipitate, which is mostly redissolved on agitating the liquid, which then assumes various hues {green, blue, violet, purple) on the addition of a drop of liquor of potassa.—6. A minute fragment of terchloride of gold and of hydrate of potassa very gently dropped into the liquid, occasion purple clouds or streaks in dilute solutions, fol- lowed by a precipitate, which is violet, purple, or blue-black, according to the strength of the liquid. The above are the most reliable precipitates for morphine; the first two may, indeed, be regarded as characteristic, and the remainder as almost so. The following are often referred to by medical writers, but are less exclusive and trustworthy:—Morphine and its salts are —7. Reddened by nitric acid, and form orange- red solutions, darkened by ammonia in excess, and ultimately turning yellow, with the pro- duction of oxalic acid.—8. They are turned blue by sesquichloride of iron, either at once or on the addition of an alkali, and this colour is destroyed by water and by alkalies, or acids in excess.—9. Iodic acid added to their solu- tions turns them yellowish-brown, by setting iodine free, and the liquid forms a blue com- pound with starch. Uses. Morphine and its salts are exhibited either in substance, made into pills, or in solu- tion, generally the latter; or externally, in fine powder, applied to the dermis denuded of the cuticle. They are principally employed as anodynes and hypnotics in cases in which opium is inadmissible, and are justly regarded as the most valuable medicines of their class. “ In cases wherein both opium and the mor- phine salts are equally admissible, I prefer the former, its effects being better known and regulated: moreover, opium is to be preferred as a stimulant and sudorific, and for sup- pressing excessive mucous discharges.” (Pe- reira.) Bose. Of pure morphine, to g gr.; of its salts, g to i gr.; externally, to 1^ gr. Morphine is chiefly used for the preparation of the acetate, and some of its other salts. Good opium yields from lOg to 13g of mor- phia. See Opium. Ac'etate of Morphine. Syn. Moephi^ ACETAS (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Morphine, 6 dr.; acetic acid (Ph. L.), 3 fl. dr.; distilled water, 4 fi. oz.; dissolve, gently evaporate, and crystallize. 2. (Ph. E.) Hydrochlorate of morphine, 1 part, is dissolved in warm water, 14 parts; and the solution, when cold, is precipitated with liquor of ammonia, in slight excess; the precipitate is washed in cold water, and dis- solved, by means of pyroligneous acid (acetic acid, Ph. E.), in excess, in warm water, 12 parts; from the solution crystals are obtained as before. . * 3. (Ph. D.) Morphine (in fine powder), 1 oz.; rectified spirit, 8 fl. oz.; mix, apply a gentle heat, and add of acetic acid (sp. gr. 1*044), 4^ fi. dr. or q. s., \mtil a neutral or slightly acid solution is obtained; evaporate this to the