1102 PLEURISY—PLUMBIC ACID. called SANGUINE PLETHOEA; or it may arise | from a lax and weak state of the arterial i system, with a redundancy of serum in the I blood, in which case it is called seeous ple- thora or ATONIC PLETHORA.^’ The treatment should be directed to the removal of the pri- mary affection on which it depends. When it results from excessive or improper feeding, a due attention to the diet, exercise, &c., will generally effect a cure. PLEU'RISY. Syn. Pleueitis, L. Inflamma- tion of the PLEURA or membrane which lines ' the cavity of the chest and covers the surface j of the lungs. The common causes are exposure to cold, sudden changes of temperature, or a damp or impure atmosphere, and also all those circum- stances which usually give rise to other inflam- matory affections. Amongst the most marked of the early \ symptoms of pleurisy are fever, cough, pain in | the side, and a peculiar hard and strong pulse, followed by painful and difficult respiration, and other alarming symptoms, rapidly increasing in their severity and dangerous character. The treatment of the acute forms of pleu- j risy must be prompt and decided. Bleeding i freely, blisters, diaphoretics, and active purga- j fives, must be at once had recourse to; and in | the after treatment great care must be taken - against “ an insidious and local form of the disease, which often extends to the lungs.’^ Chronic pleurisy is an affection which is little under the control of medicine. Pleurisy chiefly attacks persons of a vigor-1 ous constitution and plethoric habit; but it; also extends its ravages, though less fre-! (juently, to others. See Phthisis and Pneu- I MONIA. i PLI'CA. Syn. Plaited hair ; Plica Po- LONICA, L. A disease of the hairs, in which j they are distended with a reddish-coloured 1 fluid, and the scalp is so exquisitely sensitive | that much pain is occasioned by the trifling ■ movement which accompanies the cutting of i the hair. During the disease a quantity of fluid exudes from the hair-tubes, and agglu- tinates into a repulsive mass of inextricable tangles. It is confined to Poland, Lithuania, and Tartary. PLUG'GING. The introduction of a mass of lint, sponge, or other suitable material, into a wound or cavity, with the intention of arresting haemorrhage. It is now seldom adopted, except in cases of bleeding from the nose, and that only after more approved me- thods have failed. PLUM. A name applied to several varie- ties of the Prunus domesticus (Linn.), or wild plum. Among the cultivated varieties, the DAHSON, GREENGAGE, FeENCH PLUM,MAGNUM BONUM or Mogul p., mieabelle p., Orleans p., and prune, are those best known. Gro- cer’s ‘ plums’ are raisins, or dried grapes. PLUMBA'GO. Syn. Graphite, Black-lead;}:, Carburet of iron*. One of the native forms of CARBON. It contains from 95 to' 1002 of pure carbon ; has a metallic lustre, and conducts electricity nearly as well as thei metals. It was formerly regarded as a ‘ car-' buret of iron,’ but the iron generally found is now known to be merely in a state of mixture. There are two distinct varieties of graphite— crystallized or foliated graphite, ob- tained chiefly from Ceylon; and amorphous GRAPHITE (the ordinary plumbago or ‘ black- lead’,) largely imported to this country from Germany. The Borrowdale mine in Cumber- land, from which the finest black-lead was formerly derived, is now nearly exhausted. The foliated graphite of Ceylon and other parts is the principal material employed for making plumbago crucibles (see page 492) and other fire-resisting goods. The amor- phous graphite is used for making black-lead PENCILS, polishing POWDER for stoves and grates (‘ lustre,’ ‘ servant’s friend,’ &c.), and to diminish friction in heavy machinery (anti-friction po-wder). Its powder is also used to give conducting surfaces to articles on which it is desired to deposit copper by the electrotype (see page 545). In medicine, plumbago has been used with apparent advan- tage, in herpes and several chronic skin dis- eases— externally^ as an ointment made with four times its weight of lard; and internally made into pills. Purification. For medical and chemical use, graphite may be treated as follows :— 1. (Dumas and Stas.) Heat it to redues:- with caustic potassa, in a covered crucible, then wash it well with water, ho\\ it in nitric add and in aqua regia, again wash it with water, dry it, and expose it at a white heat to a stream of dry chlorine gas; lastly, wash it with water, and again heat it to dull redness. In analysis. 2. (Ph. Bor.) Pure native plumbago, 1 lb., is boiled in water for 1 hour, then drained and digested, for 24 hours, in a mixture ol water, 8 oz., nitric acid and hydrochloric acid of each, 2 oz.; it is, lastly, well washed wfltl water, and dried. 2. (Brodie’s patent.) This process is onlj applicable to the hard varieties of graphite, a; that of Ceylon. It consists in introducing coarsely powdered graphite, previously mixec with y'^th of its weight of chlorate of potassa into 2 parts of concentrated sulphuric add which is heated in a water bath until the evo- lution of acid fumes ceases. The acid is thei removed by water, and the graphite dried Thus prepared, thisjsubstance, w’hen heated t( a temperature approaching a red heat, swell up to a voluminous mass of finely dividec graphite. This powder, which is quite fre( from grit, may be afterw’ards consolidated b^ pressure, and used for making pencils or othei purposes. PLUM'BIG ACID. Binoxide of lead occa sionally receives this name on account of its combining wdth some of the bases to foru: