CAMPHOR CAKES. 386 is volatilized along with the steam, and con- denses on the straw. Commercial Camphor (Refined). Si/n. White camphor; Campho'ea, Ph. L. E. & D. Prep. 100 parts of a'ude camphor are mixed with 2 parts each of quicklime and animal charcoal, both in powder, and the mixture is placed in a thin, globular, glass vessel, sunk in a sand bath. The heat is then cautiously applied, and the vessel gradually and carefully raised out of the sand as the sublimation goes on. When the process is complete, the subliming vessel is removed and allowed to cool. Ohs. The whole process of refining camphor requires great care and experience to ensure its success. If conducted too slowly, or at a heat under 375° Pahr., the product is found to he flaky, and consequently unsaleable, with- out remelting or subliming. An improvement on the common method, is simply to sublime the above mixture in any convenient vessel furnished with a large and well-cooled receiver, and to remelt the product in close vessels under pressure, and to cool the liquid mass as rapidly as possible. Prop., Sfc. A white, semi-crystalline solid, very volatile at common temperatures; freely soluble in alcohol, ether, bisulphuret of carbon, benzole, oils, and acetic acid, and sufficiently so in water (about li gr. to 1 oz.), to impart its characteristic smell and taste; 100 parts of alcohol (sp. gr. ’806) dissolve 120 parts of camphor; concentrated acetic acid dissolves twice its weight of camphor; average sp. gr. '990. It fuses at 347°, boils at 400° Fahr., and when set fire to, burns with a bright flame. It evaporates slowly at ordinary tem- peratures, and crystallizes on the inside of bottles. While floating on water it undergoes a curious rotatory movement. Uses, &fC. Camphor is sedative, narcotic, anodyne, diaphoretic, and anaphrodisiac. Dose. 2 to 10 gr. in the form of pill or bolus, or made into an emulsion with yolk of egg, mu- cilage, or almonds. In overdoses it is poison- ous. The best antidote is opium or wine, preceded by an emetic. It is also used exter- nally in ointments,liniments, and embrocations. Camphor is frequently put into wardrobes and clothes-trunks, to keep away insects; it is used to make the white stars and fire of the pyrotechnist; and by the varnish maker to increase the solubility of copal and other gums. Mixed with 6 times its weight of clay, and distilled, it suffers decomposition, and yields a yellow, aromatic, volatile oil, smell- ing strongly of thyme and rosemary, which is much used by the wholesale druggists and perfumers to adulterate some of the more costly essential oils, and by the fancy soap makers to scent their soaps. Camphor may be beaten in a mortar for some time, without being reduced to powder, but if it be first broken with the pestle, and then sprinkled with a feiv drops of reclifled spirit of wine, it may be readily pulverized. I By adding water to an alcoholic or ethereal i, solution of camphor, this dixxx^ is precipitated under the form of an impalpable powder of exquisite whiteness. | Tests. Pure camphor is ENTIRELY soluble in rectified spirit, oils, and strong acetic acid; a fragment placed on a heated spoon or in a warm situation, will wholly disappear, and the evolved fumes will be highly fragrant {cam^ phoraceous), and be free from an acid or tere- : binthinate odour. In an alcoholic solution of | ■ natural camphor, ammonia gives but a slight precipitate, which is dissolved on shaking the mixture; a similar solution of artificial cam- phor under the like treatment gives a floccu- lent precipitate, which remains undissolved. See Factitious Camphor {below). FactT'tious Camphor. Syn. Htdrochlo- RATE OF TUR'PENTINE, HyDROCHLORATE OF CAMPHENE, Artificial camphor. Prepared by passing dry hydrochloric acid gas into pure oil of turpentine, cooled by a freezing mixture or pounded ice. After a time a white, crys- talline mass is formed, which must be drained, and dried by pressure between folds of bibu- lous paper. It may be purified by solution in alcohol. I Prop., It has a camphoraceous taste and odour; burns with a greenish, sooty flame, and when blown out evolves a terebinthinate odour ; heated a little above the boiling-point of water, slight fumes of hydrochloric acid gas are perceptible. See Camphene. Hydrochlo"rate of Camphor. -Sy??. Mu"riate OF CAMPHOR; CaMPHO'RjE HYDR0CHL0"RAS, L. By passing hydrochloric acid gas over camphor, in small fragments, until it ceases to be absorbed. Liq'uid Camphor. Syn. Camphor oil; ^ O'leum CAMPHO'R.2E,L.Apale-yellowish,limpid " fluid, which exudes from Dryobalanops aro- matica, a tree growing in Sumatra and Borneo, when deep incisions are made in the trunk. It is supposed that the crystalline Sumatra CAMPHOR (see below) is deposited from this fluid. The liquid camphor has somewhat the odour of CAJEPUT OIL, and might, no doubt, be beneficially employed for the same purpose. It is sometimes imported into Europe. Ni'trate of Camphor. Syn. Camphor oil; O'leum campho'r.® facti"tium, L. Prepared by dissolving camphor in nitric acid, in the cold. SuTphite of Camphor. From camphor and sulphurous acid gas, as hydrochlorate of cam- phor. Suma'tra Camphor. Syn. Bor'neo camphor. Hard c., Dragon’s brain perfume. Ob- tained from Dryobalanops aromatica, being found in natural fissures or crevices of the wood. It resembles ordinary camphor in most properties, but its odour is not of so diffusible a nature. This kind is not seen in European commerce. CAMPHOR CAKES. See Balls (Camphor).