HYDKOFEEEICYANIC ACID—HYDEOFLUOSILICIC ACID. 742 ferrocyanide of potassium "by sulpliuric acid, is less liable to change than that prepared by any other process; probably, from a minute quantity of sulphuric acid passing over during the distillation. According to Dr. Christison, it will keep for years. Some of it continued “ unchanged for two years and a half, although it was exposed to^laylight.’' HYDROFEERICYAN'IC ACID. Syn. Hy- DEOFEEEIDCYANIC ACID, FeEEICYANIDE OE HYDEOGEN. A compound of ferricyanogen and hydrogen. Prep. Recently precipitated/erricyawzWe of lead is decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen, or by dilute sulphuric acid carefully added. A yellow solution is thus obtained, which yields a deep-brown powder when evaporated by heat, or yellow crystals by spontaneous evaporation. Prop., S^'c. With the oxides of the metals this compound forms PEEEiCYAisriDES. These may be made by adding a solution of ferri- cyanide of potassium to another of a soluble salt of the base. Ferridcyanide of potassium is the salt commonly known as ‘ bed peussiate OE POTASH.^ ‘TurnbuH’s blue’ is a ferridcyanide of iron. See Feeeicyanogen, &c. HYDROFERROCYAN'IC ACID. Syn. Fee- EOPEDSSIC ACID,* FeEEOCHYAZIC A*., FeEEO- CYANIDE OE HYDEOGEN; ACIDDM HYDEOEEE- EOCYANICDM, A. FEEEOCYANICUM, L. A pe- culiar compound of cyanogen, hydrogen, and iron, discovered by Porrett, and by him named ‘ ferrochyazic acid.’ Prep. 1. (Berzelius.) Ferrocyanide oj lead or copper (recently precipitated) is diffused through water, and decomposed by passing a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen through the liquid; the latter is then filtered, and evapo- rated in vacuo, over sulphuric acid, and the crystals collected, pressed between bibulous paper, and dried. Or, the acid may be ob- tained from the solution by adding ether, as noticed below. 2. (Porrett.)—a. Ferrocyanide of potassium is dissolved in water, and a solution of sulphuret of barium added as long as a precipitate falls; this is collected, washed with cold water, dried, and dissolved in cold water, 100 parts; this solution is then decomposed by adding of con- centrated sulphuric acid, 30 parts, and the fil- tered liquid is treated as before, or by the fol- lowing process;— b. A concentrated aqueous solution of hydro- ferrocyanic acid (obtained as above) is agitated with a little ether ; the acid separates imme- diately, and may be obtained by filtration. If the solution is moderately concentrated, the whole forms a thick mass, and after some time the hydroferrocyanic acid separates completely from the w^ater saturated with ether. The w^ater is to be removed by a pipette; the thick mass is to be put on a filter and washed repeatedly wdth a mixture of al- cohol and ether, containing a considerable por- tion of the latter ; it is then pressed betw’een the folds of absorbent paper to remove the moisture, and afterwards perfectly dried over sulphuric acid in vacuo. 3. A concentrated solution of ferrocyanide of potassium, prepared wdth boiled water, is cooled out of contact with the air, and hydro- chloric acid added in excess; the mixture is then agitated with ether, as before ; the sepa- rated acid is next dissolved in alcohol to which a little sulphuric acid has been added, the so- lution filtered if not clear, and agitated wdth ether; the separated acid is lastly collected and dried. Prop., ^e. Crystals or crystalline lamina?, of a yellowish-white or white colour, when pure; soluble in water and alcohol, but throwm down from solution by ether; the aqueous so- lution has an acid taste and reaction, and de- composes the alkaline carbonates with effer- vescence ; permanent in dry air; but decom- posed when heat and moisture are present. With the metallic oxides it forms compounds termed EEEEOCYAisriDES or pedssiates. The insoluble ferrocyanides may all be formed by the mixture of a soluble salt of the metal with a solution of ferrocyanide of potassium. The latter salt is the compound commonly called ‘YELLOW PEDSSIATE OP POTASH.’ See FeEEO- CYANOGEN, POTASSIUM, IeON, &C. HYDROFLUORTC ACID. Syn. Fluoehy- DEIC ACID, FlUOEIC A. ; ACIDUM ELUOEICUM, A. HYDEOELUOEICUM, L. An acid compound of hydrogen and Huorine. It was discovered by Scheele, but was first obtained in a pure state by Gay-Lussac and Thenard, in 1810. Prep. Pour concentrated sulphuric acid on half its weight oifluor spar, carefully separated from siliceous earth, andreduced to fine powder. The mixture must be made in a capacious ( leaden retort, and a gentle heat only applied, and the evolved gas must be collected in a leaden receiver, surrounded by ice. Prop., ^c. A colourless fluid below 59° Fahr., which speedily evaporates in dense white fumes wdien exposed to the air. Its affinity for w^ater exceeds that of sulphuric acid, and its combi- nation wdth that fluid is accompanied with a hissing noise, and a considerable increase of its sp. gr. up to a certain point. It attacks glass and silica, for which reason it cannot be preserved in glass vessels. Bottles of lead, silver, platinum, or pure gutta percha, are used to keep it in. It is highly corrosive, in- stantaneously destroying the skin on contact, and producing deep .and serious ulcerations; its vapour is pungent, irritating, irrespir- able, and poisonous. With the bases it unites to form IIYDEOELUOEATES and FLUOEIDES. In the arts, hydrofluoric acid is used for etching on glass.^ HYDROFLUOSILICTC ACID. Fluoeide of SILICON AND iiYDEOGEN. Prep. From pow- dered fluor spar, and siliceous sand or powdered glass, of each, 1 jiart; concentrated sulphuric acid, 2 parts; mix in a glass retort, apply a gentle heat, and pass the evolved gas (fluo* 1 See page 590.