153 AMMONIA. from the retort; and the receiver and bottles are to be kept cool by ice or a stream of very cold water. A gradually increasing heat is to I be applied to the * retort ’ until ‘ gas ’ ceases to I be evolved; when the ‘ receiver ’ is to be dis- j connected from the retort, and a gentle heat I applied to it, to drive over as much of the ‘ gas’ ! contained in it, but as little of the water as I possible. Sp. gr. of the liquor (aqua a. foe'- I TICK, Ph. E.) contained in the first bottle, ] *880; of that in the second (w. of a., A. am- ; monIjE, Ph. E.), *960; or it must be brought to that standard with either water or the j stronger liquor of ammonia, as the case may be. d. Ph. I). 1850: — a. (Liquoe ammoniji, Ph. D.) Sal ammoniac smdi fresh-burned lime, of each, 8 oz.; water (to slake the lime), 4 oz. ; distilled water (for the receiver), 16 oz. Sp. gr., '950. jS. (L. A. FOE'tide, Ph. D.) Pass the gas evolved in the last process, into 8 oz. of liquor of ammonia (*950.), or into 5 oz. of distilled water. Sp. gr., *900. A convenient form of apparatus for preparing ‘ liquor of ammonia ’ on the small scale, is shewn in the engr., which will be self-explana- tory after the perusal of the directions of the Edinburgh College. I 2. CoMMEECiAL :—This article is prepared, j on the large scale, from a mixture of about equal I parts oi fresh-slaked lime and sal ammoniac or I sulphate of ammonia, which is heated in an I iron cylinder or retort connected with a set of f ‘ refrigerators ; ’ the latter consisting of a row of stoneware bottles with double necks, con- taining water, and kept very cold. The general arrangement of the apparatus used in this ma- nufacture is exhibited below, and, with the ac- companying references, will be easily under- stood. The ^condensers,’ when in use, are A, Cylindrical Iron Retort. li. Furnace for ditto. C C C C, Stoneware Receivers. ; surrounded with cloths (not shewn in the engr) ■ kept wet with very cold water, whilst a con- stant current of cold air is commonly made to pass over them. The pipe (Z)), leading from the retort, is also several feet long, and is ' advantageously passed through a wooden screen, in order that the radiated heat of the retort I and brickwork of the furnace, may be inter- ! cepted as much as possible. D I) 1) 1), Connecting Pipes. E F, Waste Pipe and Receiver. G, Safety Tube. Two different methods of proceeding are adopted in this process. In the one, the dry pulverulent ingredients are mixed together, and the resulting gas distilled over into the water placed in the receivers. In the other, the lime is made into a ‘ pap ’ with water, and the ammonia-salt, in coarse powder, being added, the whole is rapidly blended together, before closing the retort, and applying heat.