BLUBBER—BLUE PIGMENTS. 338 Beside the above there are several other varieties of the blowpipe occasionally employed. One, in which the air is expelled by the pres- sure of a column of water, and hence called the htdeostatTc blowpipe. Another, in which the dame is blown with the vapour of boiling alcohol, is named the spir'it-blowpipe. BLUB'BER. Syn. Ad'eps BALjENA"EUM, L.; Geaisse de baleine, Fr. The soft fat of whales, and of other large sea-animals, from which the oil (teain'-oil, whale'-oil) is ob- tained by heat. Sea Blubber. The popular name of several species of marine animals of the genus medusa, having a body resembling a large mass of jelly. They are very plentiful on some parts of the coast of England, and are said to form a rich and cheap manure for pasture and arable land. They are used at the rate of about 1 ton to every 20 or 30 loads of mould, together with a chaldron of lime, per acre. In 3 or 4 months the land is usually found in prime condition. Pilchards, and other fish that swarm upon our coasts, and for which there is not a ready market, may be used in the same way, and are much richer, being, when properly managed hut little inferior to guano. BLUE (bT55). Syn. Cjeeu'lees, L.; Bleu, Fr. j Blau, Ger. Of the colour of the clear sky, or of any shade of it, whether lighter or darker; subst., a blue colour, blueness (col'oe c^eu'leus, L.) ; or a blue colouring material or pigment (c^eu'leum, L.). BLUE DYE. Syn. Teinte bleue, Fr.; Blau eaebe, Ger. The most permanent blue is that given by indigo, and particularly by what is called the ‘ indigo-vat.’ A variety of shades, of great beauty, and considerable per- manence, may also be given by the ‘ Prussian- blue process.’ Cheaper blues are commonly dyed with logwood. Each of these are noticed at length under their respective heads. The following are also employed, and are well adapted for common ‘ goods,’ on the small scale and for domestic use :— 1. Give the ‘goods’ a mordant of alum, or of acetate of alumina (‘red liquor’), then rinse them well, and boil them in a bath of logwood, to which a small quantity of blue vitriol has been added ; lastly rinse, and dry. 2. Boil the ‘ goods ’ for a short time in a bath of logwood; then add to the liquor tartar and verdigris, in the proportion of 1 oz. of each, to every lb. of logwood employed; and again boil for a short time. 3. Give the ‘ goods ’ a mordant of tartar; lift, add a little chromate of potash; again work for 15 or 20 minutes, and rinse; next boil in a hath of logwood, adding towards the last a few grains more of the chromate; again boil, and finish. The whole quantity of chromate used should not exceed ^ oz. to each lb. of logwood taken for the bath. Very dark. 4. Bilberries, elder-berries, mulberries,privet- berries, and several other like vegetable sub- stances, may be used to die blue, as above instead of logwood. Obs. By increasing the proportion of alum or red-liquor the colour verges on pueple; and by employing a little acetate of iron or green copperas, the daekee shades of blue are produced. Verdigris, blue vitriol, and alkalies, turn it more on the blue ; whilst a mordant of tin imparts a VIOLET cast. If much more chromate be used than that ordered the result is a blue-black. See Dyeing, Indigo, Log- wood, Moedants, Peussian-Blue, &c. BLUE PIG'MENTS. Syn. C^eu'lea, &c., L. The preparation of the principal blue pig- ments of commerce is described under their respective names. In the following list those for which ‘ directions ’ are given are of a mis- ■ cellaneous and less usual character:— Az'ure, Azure Blue. A name frequently i given to smalts. That of the ‘ oil-painter ’ is i ultramarine ; that of the ‘ ancients ’ is noticed i below. See Azuee (p. 250), Ulteamaeine, &c, Barth’s Blue. See Sulphate oe Indigo. Berlin'-Blue. Prussian blue. Blue Bice. Native blue carbonate of copper, prepared by grinding, and elutriation. That of the shops is generally a factitious compound i made from smalts. ! Blue Car'mine. See Caemine and Sulphate Ii OE Indigo. jl Char'coal-Blue. Carbonised vine-stalks are triturated with an equal weight of salt of tartar or pearlash, the mixture put into a crucible, and heated over the fire until it ceases to swell, : the mass being kept well stirred all the time; when cold, it is dissolved vc^vater, and the ex- cess of alkali saturated with dilute sulphuric acid. The liquid becomes blue, and a dark precipitate falls down, which turns of a hril- \ liant blue colour when dried and cautiously . heated. \ QihVri2i-'E\.ViQ,Roy'al Smalts. The crude oxide of JI cobalt, or zaffre, is ground with an equal weight of potash, and about 8 times its weight oTfelspar, the mixture submitted to fusion in a crucible, and when cold reduced to an impalpable pow- der. Used to paint pottery, and as a blue pigment. Co'balt-Blue, Cobalt’ic Az'ure. This is com- monly prepared by one or other of the follow- ing formulae :— 1. Zaffre, 1 lb., is dissolved in nitric acid (diluted with an equal weight of water), f lb., by digestion for some hours; the solution is evapo- rated nearly to dryness, and the ‘ residuum ’ j redissolved in warm water ; to this ‘ solution,’ ) after filtration, a solution of phosphate of soda j is added as long as a precipitate forms; this last is collected on a filter, washed with cold water, and mixed, whilst still moist, with 8 ' times its weight of fresh-precipitated hydrate > of alumina ; the paste is then dried, and ex- posed to a cherry-red heat in a crucible, after which the mass is cooled and reduced to a very fine powder.