1359 ZINC. crystallized acetate of lead, 190 parts ; dissolve each separately in water, mix the solutions, filter, evaporate, and crystallize. Prop., 8fc. Efflorescent, white, hexagonal plates, having a powerful styptic taste; very soluble in water; less soluble in alcohol; de- composed by heat. It is tonic, antispasmodic, and emetic. Dose. 1 to 2 gr.; as an emetic, 10 to 20 gr.; externally, 2 or 3 gr. to water, 1 fl. oz., as an astringent lotion or injection. Ammo"nio-chlo"ride of Zinc. Syn. Zinci ET AMMONIJE CHLOEIDUM, ZiNCI AMMONIO- CHLORIDUM, L. Prep. Chloride of zinc, 68 parts; sal ammoniac, 54 parts; water, q. s.; dissolve, and crystallize. Its solution possesses the property of dissolving the oxides of copper and iron. A crude liquid of this class is used in zincing, tinning, and soldering these metals. Bro'mide of Zinc. Nyn. Zixci bromidtjm:, L. Prepared like the corresponding salt of iron. (See page 792.) But'ter of Zinc. Chloride of zinc. (See below.) Car'bonate of Zinc. Syn. Zinci carbonas PURTJM, ZINCI CARBOXAS (Ph. D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. D.) Solution of chloride of zinc (Ph. D.), 1 pint, is added, in successive portions, to a solution of crystallized carbonate of soda of commerce, 2 lb., dissolved in boiling distilled water, 6 pints, and the whole is boiled until gas ceases to be evolved; the precipitate is then washed, and dried, at first on blotting paper, and, finally, by a steam or w'ater heat. 2. Add a solution of carbonate of soda to another of pure sulphate of zinc, and wash and dry the precipitate as before. Dose. 2 to 10 gr. The impure or native carbonate of zinc is called ^ calamine.’ Chlo"ride of Zinc. Syn. Butter op zinc. Muriate of z.f; Zinci chloridum (Ph. L.), Z. MURiAsf, L. Prep. 1. By heating metallic zinc in chlorine. 2. By distilling a mixture of zinc filings and corrosive sublimate, equal parts, as in the pre- paration of chloride of antimony. 3. (Ph. L.) Hydrochloric acid, 1 pint; water, 1 quart; add zinc (in small pieces), 7 oz.; when the efiervescence is nearly finished, apply heat until bubbles cease to be evolved; decant the clear, and evaporate to dryness; fuse the resulting mass in a lightly covered crucible, by a red heat, pour it out on a flat smooth stone, and, when cold, break it into small pieces, and preserve it in a well-stop- pered bottle. 4. (Ph. Bor. 1847.) Hydrochloric acid (sp. gr. 1-120), 5 oz.; hydrated carbonate of zinc, 2 oz., or q. s. to saturate; filter through powdered glass, evaporate, with constant stirring, to dryness, reduce the mass, still warm, to powder, and at once bottle, as before. 5. (Righini.) Solution of chloride of barium, any quantity; add solution of sulphate of zinc as long as a precipitate falls; filter, evapo- rate, and crystallize; preserve the crystals as before. 6. (In solution.)—a. (Liquor zinci CHLORIDI—Ph. D.) Hydrochloric acid and water, of each, 2| pints; sheet zinc, 1 lb.; dissolve, filter through calico, add of chlori- nated solution of lime, 1 fl. oz., and evaporate, by boiling, to a pint; when cold, pour it into a bottle, add of prepared chalk, 1 oz., and water, q. s. to make the whole measure 1 quart; agitate occasionally for 24 hours, decant or filter, and preserve the liquid in a stoppered bottle. Sp. gr. 1-593. b. (E. Parrish.) Granulated zinc, 4 lb.; hydrochloric acid, 4 lb., or q. s.; water, 9 quarts; dissolve, avoiding excess of acid. The solution contains 1 in 12 of chloride of zinc. Recommended as of the proper strength for a disinfectant. Prop., ^c. When pure, a colourless, amor- phous mass or crystals; generally a whitish- gray, semi-transparent mass, having the con- sistence of w-ax; fusible; volatile at a strong heat, condensing in acicular crystals; freely soluble in alcohol, ether, and water; highly deliquescent; coagulates albumen and gelatin, and corrodes animal substances. The solu- tion possesses the same properties in a minor degree. Pur. “ From the aqueous solution, hydro- sulphuric acid or ferrocyanide of potassium being dropped in, a precipitate is thrown down. What is thrown down by ammonia or potassa from the same solution is white, and is redissolved by either precipitant in excess. The precipitate thrown down by the carbonate of either ammonia or potassa is (also) white, but is not redissolved w'hen these are added in excess.” (Ph. L.) Uses, S^c. Dry chloride of zinc is chiefly used as a caustic, for which it is highly recom- mended by Voght, Canquoin, and others. It is more powerful than chloride of antimony, and its action extends deeper than does nitrate of silver, whilst it exercises an influence over the vital actions of neighbouring parts. The sore is generally healthy after the separa- tion of the eschar, and no constitutional dis- order ensues. (See page 407.) It has been given in scrofula, epilepsy, chorea, &c.; and, combined with hydrocyanic acid, in facial neu- ralgia. Dose. ^ gr. to 2 gr.; externally, as a lotion, 2 to 3 gr. to water, 1 oz. In large doses it is poisonous. The solution (liquid chloride) is also used as a caustic, but chiefly as a disinfectant and deodorizer, of which it is one of the very best, possessing, as it does, the power of rapidly decomposing hydrosulphuret of ammonia and the organic matter of miasmata which con- vey disease. “ In the last outbreak of cholera in this metropolis, we had several opportunities of seeing the efficacy of chloride of zinc as a disinfectant fully tested and demonstrated.” (Cooley.) Cy'anide of Zinc. Syn. Cyanueet of