APPENDIX. 1390 elude 17 gr. of the nitrate, or ^ of an equlv. in gr. Upon dropping it into dilute hy- drocyanic acid, rendered alkaline by soda, the precipitate first formed is, upon agitation, redissolved, and continues to be so until the whole of the cyanogen of the acid has united with the sodium and the silver, forming a double cyanide. In such experiments, 100 measures correspond to 5'4 gr. of absolute hydrocyanic acid. Volumetric Solution op Oxalic Acid. Purified oxalic acid (in crystals, quite dry, but not effloresced), 551-25 gr.; distilled water, 18 fl. oz.; dissolve, and make up exactly 20 fl. oz. at 60° with more distilled water. 100 mea- sures include 63 gr. of crystallized oxalic acid, and will exactly neutralize an equivalent in grains of any alkali or alkaline carbonate. Volumetric Solution op Soda. Drop solution of soda from the volumetric tube into a solution formed by dissolving 63 gr. of puri- fied oxalic acid in 2 fl. oz. of distilled water, until the acid is exactly neutralized, as in- dicated by litmus. Note the number of measures (n) of the solution used, and, having then taken solution of soda, 40 fl. oz., make , , 4000 up this quantity with distilled water to —— fl. oz. If, for example, N = 93, the 40 fl. oz. 4000 should be diluted so as to become -7;^ = yo 43-01 fl. oz. 100 measures of this solution in- clude 31 gr. of soda (1 equiv.), and will there- fore neutralize 1 equiv. in gr. of any mono- basic acid. Tin. Placed in Appendix as an article em- ployed in analysis, and described as “grain tin, granulated by fusing and pouring it into cold water.” Tinctures. There are now 56 officinal tinc- tures, 5 of which (arnica, hemlock fruit, nux vomica, savin, and senega) are newly intro- duced. Many of the old ones are changed in name. A new method of preparation, com- bining the operations of maceration, percola- tion, and expression, is ordered for most of the tinctures; and, to prevent needless repetition, we will now give a general formula, to which we may refer the reader when noticing the different tinctures prepared by this new me- thod:— Macerate the drug or mixed ingredients (in the condition and quantity specified), for 48 hours, with 15 fl. oz. of spirit, in a close vessel, agitating occasionally; then transfer to a per- colator, and, when the fluid ceases to pass, pour into the percolator 5 fl. oz. of spirit. As soon as the percolation is completed, subject the contents of the percolator to pressure, filter the product, mix the liquids, and add sufficient spirit to make one pint. Proof spirit is to be used, unless otherwise stated. The following receipts should be compared with those given on pages 1277 to 1287 :— Tincture of Aconite (Tinctuea Aconiti). From aconite root (in fine powder), 2^ oz.; by the new method, using rectified spirit. This tincture has only \ the strength of that ordered in Ph. D., and ^ of that in Ph. L. Tincture of Aloes (Tinctura Aloes). Socotrine aloes (in coarse powder), f oz.; ex- tract of liquorice, 1^ oz. ; proof spirit, 1 pint; macerate 7 days, filter the liquor, and make uj) to 1 pint with proof spirit. Tincture of Arnica (Tinctura Arnica). From arnica root (in fine powder)} 1 oz.; by the new method, using rectified spirit. New. Tincture of Asafcetida (Tinctura Asa- FCETID.E). Asafcetida (in small fragments), 2| oz.; rectified spirit, 1 pint; macerate 7 days, strain, filter, and make up to 1 pint. Tincture of Belladonna (Tinctura Bel- LADONN.E). From belladonna leaves (in coarse powder), 1 oz.; by the new method. This tincture has about J the strength of the Ph. L. and D. preparations. Compound Tincture of Benzoin (Tinc- tuea Benzioni composita). Benzoin (in coarse powder), 2 oz.; prepared storax, I5 oz.; balsam of Tolu, ^ oz.; Socotrine aloes, 160 gr.; rectified spirit, 1 pint; macerate for 7 days, filter, and make up to 1 pint. Tincture of Buchu (Tinctura Bucco). From buchu (bruised), oz.; by the new method. Tincture of Calumbo (Tinctura Ca- lumet). From calumbo (bruised), 2^ oz.; by the new method. Tincture of Camphor with Opium. See Tinct. of Opium (Camphorated). Tincture of Cantharides (Tinctura Cantharidis). From cantharides (in coarse powder, \ oz.; by the new method. Tincture of Capsicum (Tinctura Cap- SiCl). From capsicum (bruised), f oz.; by the new method, using rectified spirit. Compound Tincture of Cardamoms (Tinctura Cardamomi composita). Car- damoms (bruised), i oz. ; caraway (bruised), 5 oz.; raisins (stoned), 2 oz.; cinnamon (bruised), ^ oz.; cochineal (in powder), 60 gr.; proof spirit, q. s. Proceed by the new method. Tincture of Cascarilla (Tinctura Cas- CAEILL.E). From cascarilla (bruised), 2| oz.; by the new method. Tincture of Castor (Tinctura Castorei). Castor, 1 oz.; rectified spirit, 1 pint; macerate 7 days, strain, express, filter, and make up to 1 pint. Tincture of Catechu (Tinctura Cate- chu). From catechu (in coarse powder), 2| oz.; cinnamon (bruised), 1 oz. ; by the new method. Tincture of Chiretta (Tinctura Chi- rat.®). From 'chiretta (bruised), 2^ oz. ; by the new method. Compound Tincture of Cinchona (Tinc- tuea Cinchona: composita). Pale cinchona bark (in coarse powder), 2 oz.; bitter-orange peel (cut small), 1 oz.; serpentary (bruised), \ oz,; sajfron, 60 gr.; cochineal (in powder),