LAMP BLACK—LAPIS. 821 i 1 ! I j spirit of wine, or wood-spirit, and the com- j bustion is greatly aided by the chimney, which I in this case is made of copper. (See engr. 2 and 13.) The lamp itself is also made of metal, [and furnished with ground caps to the wick- I holder and aperture by which the spirit is [introduced, in order to prevent loss of spirit by evaporation when the lamp is not in use. When in use this aperture must always be left open, otherwise an accident is sure to happen, as the heat expands the air in the lamp, and the spirit is forcibly expelled. ! In those situations in which coal-gas is cheap, it may be used with great economy and advantage as a source of heat in most chemical operations. Retorts, flasks, capsules, and other vessels, can be thus exposed to an easily regulated and constant temperature for many successive hours. Small platinum cru- cibles may be ignited to redness by placing Ithem over the flame on a little wire triangle. lOf the various gas-lamps now used in the j laboratory, the first and most simple consists of a common Argand gas-burner fixed on a heavy and low foot, and connected with a [flexible gas-tube of caoutchouc or other ma*- terial. (See engr. 4.) With this arrangement it is possible to obtain any degree of heat, from that of the smallest blue flame, to that [which is sufficient to raise a moderately large [platinum crucible to dull redness. When gas mixed with a certain proportion of air is burnt, a pale blue flame, free from smoke, and possessing great heating power, is obtained. A lamp for burning the mixture may easily be [made by fitting a close cover of fine wire [gauze over the top of the chimney of the last- jmentioned contrivance. The gas is turned on, [and after a few minutes ignited above the wire j gauze. The ingenious and useful burners of j Bunsen and Griffin are so constructed that gas and air mixed in any proportions, or gas alone, may be burnt at pleasure. See Illumination, Fuel, Fuenace, Gas, Laboeatoet, &c. Flameless Lamp. Syn. Glow lamp. Fine platinum wire, or spongy platinum, heated to [redness, and plunged into a mixture of ether- jor alcohol vapour and atmospheric air, causes [the vapour to undergo partial combustion. I The heat evolved in the act of oxidation is [sufficient to maintain the platinum in an [incandescent state. The ‘lamp without jPLAME ’ of Sir H. Davy exhibits this curious [phenomenon in a very striking manner. A [coil of fine platinum wire is slipped over the [wick of a spirit lamp, the greater part being [raised above the cotton; the lamp is supplied [with ether or alcohol, lighted for a moment, land then blown out. The coil continues to [glow in the mixed atmosphere of air and com- bustible vapour, until the liquid in the lamp is exhausted. The ‘ peefctme lamp^ is a similar contrivance, differing only in having a small ball of spongy platinum in place of the wire, and in being fed with perfumed spirit. A.S this lamp gives off pungent acrid vapours, it is hardly suitable for scenting the air of an apartment, but it forms a pretty and interesting scientific toy. Monochromatic Lamp. A lamp fed with a mixture of a solution of common salt and spirit of wine. It gives a yellow light, and makes every object illuminated by it appear either yellow or black. The human features are changed in a remarkable degree; the coun- tenance appearing truly ghastly and un- earthly. Safe'ty Lamp. Syn. Minee’s lamp, Davy, Geoedy. The safety lamps of Sir H. Davy and George Stephenson are similar in prin- ciple, and were independently invented about the same time. That of Sir H. Davy consists of a common oil lamp, surmounted with a cylinder of wire gauze, the apertures of which are not greater than the ^th of an inch square, and the wire of which it is made of the 3>gth to the ggth of an inch in diameter. (See engr.) The fire damp (caebueetted hy- deogen) of coal mines, in passing through the meshes of such gauze, gets cooled by the conducting power of the wire below the point neces- sary to kindle it. When this lamp is taken into an explosive atmosphere, al- though the fire-damp may burn within the cage with such energy as sometimes to heat the metallic tissue to dull redness, the flame is not communicated to the mixture on the outside. These ap- pearances are so remarkable,* that the lamp becomes an admirable indicator of the state of the air in different parts of the mine, and if its admonitions are attended to, gives the miner time to withdraw before an explosion takes place. LAMP BLACK. See Black Pigments. LAMP'IC ACID. See Aldehydic Acid. LAMP'REY. Syn. Geeat lampeey. Sea l. This fish is the Petromyzon marinus of Linnaeus. It generally quits the sea in the spring, for the purpose of spawning, and remains in our rivers for a few months. Its flesh is soft and glu- tinous, and though esteemed a delicacy, is ex- tremely difficult of digestion, if not otherwise unwholesome. Potted lampreys are usually so highly seasoned, as to become a dangerous article of food. Henry I is said to have lost his life from the effects of a surfeit of lampreys. LANTHA'NIUM. A rare metal, discovered by Mosander, associated with oxide of cerium. Oxide of lanthanium is a pale salmon- coloured powder, unaffected by ignition in open vessels. See Ceeium. LA'PIS. [L.] A stone. The term was much employed by the old chemists, and is still com-