BUTYRINE—CADMIUM. 376 ICUM, L.; Acide butyeiqee, Fr.; Butter- SAUEE, Ger. An oily acid, first obtained by Chevreul, from butter. Prep. From butyrate of baryta (or of mag- nesia'), by adding sulphuric acid in quantity not quite sufficient to decompose the whole of tbe salt; the clear liquor filtered, and dis- tilled, yields btjtyeic acid, from which the Avater may be removed by digestion with chloride of calcium. Prop. A thin colourless liquid, of pungent rancid odour, and sour taste, miscible with water and alcohol. It boils and distils un- changed at 327° Fahr. Sp. gr. *963. See Ethees. Anhy'drous Butyric Acid. A colourless li- quid someAvhat resembling butyric ether, boiling at 320° Fahr. See Acids (Organic). BU:TYRINE 1 (-m). [Eng., Fr.] An oily substance existing in butter, and of Avhich it forms the characteristic portion. It was dis- covered by Chevreul. Prep. Keep clarified butter in a porcelain vessel, at a heat of 66°, for some days; care- fully collect the oily portion which separates, mix it with an equal weight of alcohol of the sp. gr. *796, and agitate it frequently for 24 hours; after repose pour off the clear portion, and evaporate it; treat the ‘ oily residuum ’ with a little carbonate of magnesia, to remove free acid, and wash off the butyeate of MAGNESIA thus formed with water; lastly, heat the remaining fatty matter in alcohol, filter, and evaporate, by a gentle heat; the residuum is butyeine. BUXINE( -m). An alkaline substance, de- tected by M. Faure, in bux'us semper'virens, or the common box-tree. CABB'AGE. Syn. Beas'sica, L.; Chod, Fr.; Kohl, Ger. This common esculent, and all its numerous varieties, are merely culti- vated specimens of the wild ‘ sea-cabbage ’ of our coasts {bras'sica olera'cea, Linn.), one of an extensive and valuable genus of plants be- longing to the nat. ord. Crucifera;. After the potato, the cabbage is doubtless more ex- tensively used by the masses of the people, than any other fresh vegetable. When young, and properly dressed, it forms an agreeable and wholesome addition to animal food, the grossness of which, it is said, it tends to correct. It has, however, when out of the body, a greater tendency to putrefaction than most other culinary vegetables, and emits, whilst in this state, a very disagreeable efflu- vium, strongly resembling that from animal matter in a state of decomposition. It should therefore be eaten only when fresh-gathered and fresh-cooked; and the unconsumed por- tion, as well as the water in which it has been boiled, should be at once thrown away. The 1 with the ‘i’ sounded as ee—Mayne. The same orthography and notation is applied to all similar words in the “ Expos. Lexicon.” “concentrated perfume of cabbage-water,” is aptly selected by a celebrated novelist as sym- bolical of a foetor of the very worst class. So far, however*, from inducing a putrid dispo- sition in the body, cabbages, and all other ■ similar vegetables, have the very opposite effect. Nevertheless persons troubled with a weak digestion, or who have a tendency to flatu- lence, diarrhoea, or worms, would do well to avoid them. Their use is particularly service- able in scurvy, and in numerous skin-diseases. » It has been asserted that cabbages, cauli- " flowers, broccoli, celery, and several other culinary vegetables, may bo preserved in a fresh state for some time, by cutting them so that they may have about two inches of stem left below the leaves, scooping out the pith as far down as a small knife will reach, and then suspending them perpendicularly by means of a cord, in an inverted position, in some cool situation, and daily filling up the bottom part of the stem with clean cold water. In this > way it is stated that a supply of green vege- ^ tables may be readily obtained during a severe winter, and on ship-board. Other methods, including those usually adopted with the same object, are noticed under Vegetables i (Culinary). Cabbages, broccoli, ^c., are dressed by simply throwing them into boiling water, and sim- i mering them until tender. A few minutes t is sufficient for this purpose. A pinch of salt of tartar, or of carbonate of soda, is commonlj’^ 4 added to the water, to preserve the green colour ^ of the vegetables. ^ ^ CACHOU ABOMATISE (kashoo aromateza). ^ [Fr.] A mouth-lozenge intended to sweeten ; and perfume the breath. Preparations of this description are much used by smokers and bacchanals. Tile form under which they are generally prepared for sale, is that of 1^ to . 2 gr. pills, neatly silvered. Originally they were composed chiefly of catechu and sugar, flavoured and perfumed with the stronger aromatics ; but at the present day the catechu, from which they derive their name, is not un- frequently omitted. Their preparation is de- scribed elsewhere; See Beeath, Lozenges, Pastils, &c. CAD'MIUM. [Eng., L.] Syn. Klapeo'- THiUM. A metal discovered, by Stromeyer and Hermann, in the ores of zinc. Prep. 1. (Stromeyer.) The cadmo-zincic ore is dissolved in an excess of dilute sul- phuric or hydrochloric acid, by heat; a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen is passed through the solution, the resulting precipitate sul- phur et of cadmium') dissolved in nitric acid, and the solution evaporated to dryness; the residuum is dissolved in water, the solution precipitated with carbonate of ammonia in excess, and the precipitate (‘ carbonate of cad- mium') collected, mixed with charcoal, and heated to redness in a crucible apparatus so arranged as to condense the fumes; the cad- mium sublimes.