320 BITTER PRINCIPLE-BIXEINE. part each of extract of quassia and powdered sulphate of iron, with 2 parts of extract of cocculus indicus, 4 parts of Spanish liquorice, and about 8 parts of treacle; the liquorice being first boiled with a little water until dis- solved, and the solution evaporated to a proper consistence before adding the other ingredients. Used by fraudulent brewers and publicans to impart a false bitter and apparent strength to their liquors. See Bitter Balls, &c. BITT'ER PRIN'CIPLE*. Syn. Ama"eine ; Amaei'na, Amaeitl'do, L. ; Amee, Fr.; Bitteestoee, Ger. It was formerly supposed that the bitterness of all, or nearly all, vege- tables, depended on the presence of one common principle, which appeared to vary in different plants only from being in different states of combination—an opinion long since discarded. See Amaeine, Aueantiine, Gentianine, Lueuline, Quassine, &c. BITT'ERS (-erz). Syn. Ama"ea, &c., L. Vegetable bitters are commonly regarded as tonic and stomachic, and to improve the appe- tite when taken occasionally, and in moderation. The best time is early in the morning, or half an hour or an hour before a meal. An exces- sive, or a too prolonged use of them, tends to weaken the stomach, and to induce nervous- ness. They should not be taken for a longer period than about 8 or 10 days at a time, al- lowing a similar period to elapse before again having recourse to them. Among the most useful and generally em- ployed bitters are—calumba, cascarilla, cha- momiles, gentian, hops, orange-peel, quassia, and wormwood. Bitters. In the liquor-trade, a ^ compound ^ prepared by steeping vegetable bitters, and some aromatics as flavouring, in weak spirit, for some 8 or 10 days; a little sugar or syrup being subsequently added to the strained or decanted tincture. In that of the taverns and gin-shops the menstruum is usually gin, or plain-spirit reduced to a corresponding strength. Bean'dt-bittees and wine'-bittees are pre- pared in a similar way with common British brandy, or some cheap white wine (Cape or raisin), as the case may be. Each maker has usually his own formulae, which he modi- fies to suit the price, and the palate of his cus- tomer.—This class of liquors has been justly charged with being the fertile cause of ha- bitual intemperance, of disease, and even of death! Their occasional use as tonics or stomachics is also objectionable, owing to the trash, and even deleterious substances, which so frequently enter into their composition. See Liqueues. BITU'MEN. [Eng., L.] Syn. Bitlme, Fr. j Eedpech, Eedtheee, &c., Ger. A term of a very comprehensive character, and, in general, very loosely applied, including a variety of inflammable mineral substances, of which as- phaltum, naphtha, and petroleum, may be men- tioned as examples. The solid bitumens are now extensively employed in the manufacture of bituminous mastic or cement and similar compositions, which are used for the lining of water-cisterns, and for various other hydraulic purposes; as also iox roofs, floors, pavements, <^c. For the last purpose, the native varieties of ‘ asphaltic rock,^ consisting of a mixture of bitumen and calcareous earth, when tempered with a proper quantity of crushed granite, or calcareous sand or gravel, is found to be the most substantial and durable. The plan fol- lowed in laying down such pavements in Paris, where they have been the most extensively adopted, is—The ground having been made uniformly smooth, is edged, in the usual man- ner, with curbstones rising about 4 inches above its level, and then covered, to the depth of 3 inches, with concrete (made with about l-6th part of good ‘hydraulic lime^), which is well pressed upon its bed, the surface being subsequently ‘ smoothed over' with a very thin coating of hydraulic mortar. On this, when perfectly dry} the ‘bituminous mastic,’ ren- dered semi-fluid by being cautiously heated in a suitable iron-cauldron} is evenly spread over so as to form a layer three quarters of an inch, or for less solid work, half an inch thick. Some coarse sand is lastly sifted over and pressed down on the surface, when the work is complete; and in a few days the pavement becomes sufficiently compact and solid to be thrown open to foot-passengers. The asphalto-bitumen mine of the Val de Travers, in the Canton of NeufchMel, is said to be the richest and most extensive in the world of its particular class. The calcareous bitumen which it yields contains 20g of nearly pure bitumen, and 80^ of carbonate of lime; and it has a sp. gr. (2*115) approaching that of ordinary bricks. The ‘Val de Travers Company,’ and the ‘Bastenne and Gaujac Company,’ are those who have hitherto been the most successful in laying down asphalto-pavements. See As- PHALTUM, PeTEOLEIJM, &C. Elas'tic Bitumen. Syn. Min'eeal CAor'- TCHOUC (ko5'-ch66k), El'ateeite. A rather rare species of bitumen, differing chiefly from the other solid varieties in being elastic. Liq'uid Bitumen. Petroleum. BITU'MIKOUS. Syn. Bittjmino'sus, L.; Bitumineijx, Fr.; Eedpechig-, Ger. Of bitumen, or resembling or containing it. BIX'EINE (-e-m). The red colouring-prin- ciple of annotta. It is obtained by treating bixine with liquid ammonia, with subsequent free contact of air. ^ On this point depends the success of the work. Abso- lute dryness is a sine qu^l non in the process. The mastic must also be laid down in dry weather. If laid in wet, damp, or even foggy weather, it will be liable to separate from its bed, and gradually to break up. This is why so much of the asphalt and bituminous pavement laid down in London, has proved a failure. 2 It is here that the mixture of the bitumen (previously crushed sufficiently small to pass through meshes 10 to the inch) is made with the sand or gravel; a small portion of mineral tar or coal-tar (3 to 7 or 8%) being commonly added to promote their fusion and complete union.