1240 STERRO-METAL—STIMULANTS. Carats Value per Fine. oz. Troy. £ 5. d. 7 carats . 1 4 9 6 . 1 1 5 99 . 0 17 8 4 y9 . 0 14 2 3 99 . 0 10 7-h 2 . 0 7 1 1 . 0 3 STER'EO-METAL. A remarkable alloy re- cently invented by Baron de Rosthorn, of Vienna, and used in place of ordinary gun- metal. It consists of copper and spelter, with small proportions of iron and tin, and to these latter its peculiar hardness, tensile strength, and elasticity, are attributed. STETH'OSCOPE. An instrument employed in AtrsCTJLTATiON (which see). It consists of a tube (usually made of wood, sometimes of gutta percha) widening considerably at one end, and but slightly at the other. The wide end is applied to the chest or other part of the patient, the physician putting his ear at the other end; and from the sounds emitted by the heart, lungs, &c., the state of these parts is ascertained. STEWTNGr. A method of cooking food in- termediate to frying and boiling, performed by simmering it in a saucepan or stewpan, with merely sufficient water to prevent burn- ing, and to effect the object in view; the whole being served up to form the ‘ dish.’ It is undoubtedly the most simple and economi- cal, and, when skilfully conducted, one of those best calculated to develop the flavour and nu- tritious qualities of animal food. The follow- ing is one of the most popular stews:— Irish Stew. Prep. (Soyer.) Take about 2 lb. of scrag or neck of mutton; divide it into ten or twelve pieces, and lay them in the pan; add 8 large potatoes and 4 onions cut into slices, season with 1^ teaspoonful of pep- per, and 3 do. of salt; cover all with water, put it into a slow oven, or on a stove, for two hours, then stir it all up well, and serve it up in deep dishes. If a little more water is added at the commencement, you can take out, when half done, a nice cup of broth. STIB'ETHYL. A peculiar ethereal liquid obtained by Lowig and Schweizer, by distilling iodide of ethyl along with an alloy of antimony and potassium. It is transparent, very mobile, very inflammable, smells strongly of onions, and boils at 317° Fahr.; exposed to the air, it emits dense white fumes, and often inflames. Bichloride, biniodide, binoxide, bisul- PHTiEET, and some other compounds of sti- bethyl, have been formed. STIB'IC ACID. See Antimonic Acid. STILL. A vessel or apparatus employed for the distillation of liquids on the large scale. The forms of stills, and the materials of which they are made, vary according to the pur- poses for which they are intended, some being exceedingly simple, whilst others are equally elaborate and complicated. The engr. repre- sents the most common and useful apparatus of this kind, and the one almost exclusively employed in the laboratory. It is used as follows:—After the fluid and other matters (if any) are put into the still, the head is placed on and connected with the worm-tub or refri- gerator, and the joints are all securely luted. For OEDHSTARY LIQUIDS, a stiff paste made with linseed meal and wate'^, to which a little chalk may be added, answers well for this pur- pose. For CORROSIVE LIQUIDS, nothing is better than elastic bands or rings interposed between the joints, which are then ‘ brought home,’ as it is called, with screws or clamps. Heat is next applied, and the worm tub is sup- plied with cold water in sufficient quantity to preserve its contents at a proper temperature; the application of the heat being so regulated that the liquid may drop from the end of the refrigerator quite cold and unaccompanied with vapour. For highly volatile liquids a closed receiver should be provided. a. Body of still, which may be either placed in a steam < jacket or in a brick furnace. b. Still head or capital. c. Worm tub. d. Pewter worm, or refrigerator. e. Cold water pipe. f. Waste pipe. g. Receiver. STIM'ULANTS. Syn. Stimulantia, L. Medicines or agents which possess the power of exciting vital action. They are divided into GENERAL STIMULANTS, or those which affect the whole system, as mercury or bark; and LOCAL or topical stimulants, or those which affect a particular organ or part only, as mustard applied as a poultice. Dipfusibie STIMULANTS are general stimulants the effects of which are rapid but fugacious, as ether or alcohol. “Much discrimination and caution are required in the administration of articles of this class, because, if given when inflamma- tion is present, they are liable to create more mischief than benefit; but they are called for when, on the decline of that condition of an organ or organs, a state of relaxation or tor- pidity exists. In this state of things, a gentle stimulation materially assists the functions, and is productive of much benefit.”