AMMONIA. 155 I P ' The gas being wholly expelled from the 11 ‘ retort/ or other distillatory vessel, it is dis- ' connected from the ‘ receivers,’ and (when sal I ammoniac has been employed) the heat is j raised sufficiently high to fuse the residual j * chloride of calcium,’ which is then at once i baled or poured out. Glass retorts often suffer fracture at this point; but if they I escape now, it generally happens that they j are broken when heat is applied for a i second operation. Hence, according to Prof. Miispratt, it is rare to find a retort, even I when carefully handled, that will stand two I operations. 1 When crude sulphate of ammonia is employed I it is advisable to have only a little water in the first receiver, which is placed there merely I to purify the gas w'hicli passes through it, and I to retain any traces of volatile empyreumatic I or oily matter which may be carried over with it. i Pure liquor of ammonia is most easily ob- I tained from ‘ sal ammoniac / but crystallised I sulphate of ammonia, often crude, is more I commonly employed, on account of its lower I price. i The preparation of pure liquor of ammonia { admits of no other improvements, than such I as merely affect the form of the apparatus em- ployed to produce it; and hence, unlike the , ammonia-salts of commerce, has been little I lueddied wdth by inventors and patentees. I Among the plans having for their object the ' production of an ammoniacal solution, more or less concentrated, fitted for many of the pur- poses of the arts, and for the preparation of I salts, but not for chemical and medical use, besides those of Reece, Spence, Crane and Jullien, &c., already noticed, may be men- tioned— 1. That of Watson {Patent dated 1838) in I which gas-liquor m\xe(S. with a proper quantity of fresh-slaked lime, is distilled from a ^spacious retort ’ or ‘ still ’ into a ^ receiver ’ containing cold water, until much steam passes over with ; the gas, when the strong alkaline liquor i forming the distillate, and called the ‘first portion,^ is drawn off. The distillation is then continued, when a weaker and impurer so- ! lution is obtained, called the ‘ second portion.^ I The ‘ first i)ovtion ’ is then reiij^roduced into a retort or still with a small quantity of fresh '■ lime, and the distillation repeated. The pro- duct the patentee calls the ‘first portion of I the second distillation.’ The latter is a strong I ammoniacal liquor sufficient for all the pur- ! poses of scouring, cleaning, convertion into commercial ammonia-salts, &c. It may be i further purified by a third distillation; the second portion of each operation being trans- I ferred again to the still with the next fresh ! charge of gas-liquor. 2. A moditication of Coffey’s still,^ patented I by Mr. W. E. Newton (1841), under the name ^ An engr. and description of this still, as employed for sfirlt, is given under Disttij.ation (which of the ‘ AiiiiONlA STILL ’, is now extensively and successfully employed in this manufacture. By its use ammonia may be obtained from ‘ gas-liquor,’ ‘ bone-spirit,’ or any other am- moniacal liquor or solution, and even from so- lutions of the salts of ammonia, of almost any density, and of considerable purity; and this by a process -which is continuous and inex- pensive. The ‘body of the apparatus’ is formed of wood, the ‘ chambers ’ are lined with lead, and the ‘ diaphragms ’ are of perforated sheet iron. The management of the apparatus varies -wdth the form in which it is desired to obtain the product. IVhen the ammonia is required to leave the upper chamber of the ‘ rectifier ’ in the form of gas, either pure or impure, the ‘steam’ -wdiich ascends, and the current of ‘ ammoniacal liquor ’ which descends, are regulated in such relative proportions that the latter remains at or near the atmospheric temperature during its passage through some of the ‘ upper chambers,’ becoming succes- sively hotter as it descends, until at length it enters into ebullition; in which state it passes through the lower chambers, either to make its escape, or to enter a cistern provided to receive it. If, on the contrary, the ammonia is required to leave the vipper chamber in combination w'ith the vapour of water, the supply of ‘ steam ’ entering below, must be in such proportion to that of the ‘ ammoniacal liquor ’ supplied from above, that the latter may be at or near the boiling tempera- ture in the upper part of the apparatus. Crude liquor and ammonia-salts before being thus submitted to distillation, are, of course, first treated with a proper quantity of quick- lime—in the one case, -to remove most of the impurities, and in the other, to set the am- monia fi*ee by seizing on its acid.^ The water or solution contained in the first bottle or the first receiver is found to be the strongest, provided it has been kept -well cooled; and that in the others, of progressively decreasing strength. By mixing the contents of one bottle with ano- ther, a solution of almost any strength may be made. It is also easy to prepare ‘ liquor of ammonia’ of any required strength, or to as- certain the strength of that in the ‘ receivers,’ by observing the expansion of the liquid. Water, wdien fully saturated -with ‘ ammonia,’ expands from 3 volumes, to 5 vols.; and in less, but corresponding proportion, according to the quantity absorbed. All that is neces- sary in practice is, that each ‘ receiver ’ be fur- nished with a gauge-piqjc by which the degree of expansion may be noted. On the small scale, graduated glass receivers may be used. Liquor of ammonia is now seldom made by the druggist, or on the small scale, the large manufiicturing chemists supplying it at a very low rate, and of very superior quality. In the shops, it is kept of two or three strengths; * I’or a full description of the ‘ammonia-still,’ see Newton’s “Patent Jovrn.;” “Pham. Jovrn." xiii.,64; &C.