RHODIZOXIC ACID-RHUBARB. 1172 tained by adding to a solution of the double chloride of rhodium and potassium, hydro- fuosilicic acid, as long as the double fluoride of potassium and silicium is generated, then filter- ing, evaporating to dryness, and redissolving the residuum in water. (Berzelius.) Prop., &fc. A brownish red, deliquescent mass, forming a rich red solution. Several double chlorides may be formed. Chloeide OF EHODIUM AND POTASSiDM is prepared by heating in a stream of chlorine a mixture of equal parts of finely powdered rhodium and chloride of potassium. This salt has a fine red colour, is soluble in water, and crystallizes in 4-sided prisms. Chloeide of ehoditjm and soDiTTii is also a very beautiful red salt, ob- tained by a similar process. Ox'ide of Rhodium. Syn. Sesqhioxide of ehoditjm, Peeoxide of e. Obtained by heating pulverulent rhodium, mixed with hydrate of potassa and a little nitre, in a silver crucible, and well washing the resulting pow- der, first with water, then with hydrochloric acid, and again with water. A greenish-gray powder. In this state it is insoluble in acids. An IMPUEE SOLHELE OXIDE is precipitated when carbonate of potash or of soda is added in excess to the double chloride of rhodium and potassium. A peotoxide may be also formed by roasting finely divided rhodium, but is little known. RHODIZON'IC ACID. Prep. When dry car- bonic oxide is passed o\ex fused potassium, a black porous mass is obtained, and this sub- stance, exposed to moist air, deliquesces into a j solution of EHODIZONATE OF POTASSA of a 1 scarlet colour. Obs. The acid has not been isolated. When the above solution is boiled, it becomes yellow from decomposition, ceoconate of potassa being formed. See Ceoconic Acid. RHU'BARB. Syn. Rheum (Ph. E. & D.), Rheum—Sinense (Ph. L.), RhabaebaeumI, RHGEUMf, L. “ The root of uncertain species of Rheum.’* (Ph. L.) According to Dr. F. Farre, the term ‘ sinense’ (Chinese), employed by the London College, “was placed after ‘ rheum,’ to include the so-called Russian and East Indian rhubarbs, which are considered to be the produce of China and Chinese Tartary, I and to exclude European, Himalayan, &c.“ I The ‘ Dutch trimmed’ or ‘ Batavian rhu- j barb’ is regarded in the light of East Indian I by the College. j Three principal varieties of rhubarb are known in this country:— j Russian or Tuekey ehubaeb is the pro- ,i duce of six-year-old plants of the mountain declivities of Chinese Tartary; and its principal excellence depends on its more careful pre- paration, and subsequent garbling, both before its selection for the Russian market, and after its arrival at Kiachta, and again at St. Peters- burg. At Kiachta aU pieces of a porous, gray, or pale colour, are rejected, the whole being pared and perforated, the better to determine the quality of the interior portk. At St. Petersburg the pieces are again caf fully examined and garbled, and are, final packed in close cases or chests, which are re dered air-tight by the application of pitch the outside. East India or Chinese ehubaeb is t produce of the locality just referred to, as tv as of other parts of China. It is obtain from younger plants, and its preparation a subsequent selection or garbling is conduct with less care. English ehubaeb is principally produe at Banbury, Oxfordshire, from the Rhe^ Rhaponticum. It is cut and dressed after the manner of Turkey rhubarb, which it is sold by itinerant vendors, habit as Turks. Qual. Russian or Turkey rhubarb occurs irregular plano-convex or roundish lum perforated with a circular hole; it possesse yellow' colour outside; w'hen recently brok the inside presents a rich mottled appearan and evolves a peculiar and somewhat aroma odour. It is firm, compact, heavy, perfec free from moisture, and easily grated, taste is bitter, slightly astringent, and si acid; and when chewed it feels gritty, a tinges the saliva of a beautiful yellow colo It breaks with a rough, hackly fracture, easily pulverized, and its pow'der is of a bri{ bufi-yellow colour. East India, Canton, or Chinese rhubarb is flat pieces, seldom perforated, and its taste £ odour are stronger than the other. It is i heavier, tinges the saliva of an orange-red b and when pulverized the powder is redder tl. that of Russian rhubarb. English rhubarb possesses all the precede qualities in a greatly less degree. It is li;, and spongy, does not feel gritty betw^een ■ teeth, its taste is mucilaginous, and its pow has a peculiar pinkish hue not present either of the other varieties of rhubarb. I • medicine, it possesses little value, and is chi'' employed to adulterate East India and Tur ’ rhubarb. Prop., 4'c. Rhubarb is astringent, i- machic, and purgative. In small doses, i operation is principally or wholly confinec > the digestive organs; in larger ones, it f i acts as a mild aperient, and, afterwards, as i astringent; hence its value in diarrhoea. '> has also been used externally, to promote ' healing of indolent sores. Dose. As a :• machic, 5 to 8 gr.; as a purgative, 15 > 30 gr. It is most effective when chew» or in the form of pow'der produced by * ing it. Eoast'ed Rhubarb. Syn. Buent ehuba ; Rheum ustum, L. Prep. 1. Rhubarb, i coarse pow’der, is carefully and regularly hea 1 in a smooth shallow iron dish, with const t stirring, until its colour has changed t'.i moderately dark brown, when it is allow'e«. 5 cool out of contact w’ith the air; when cole t