NITROGEN. 942 not affect lime water, and is only slightly ab- sorbed by pure water. Its sp. gr. is -9713. In analysis, it is recognised by its purely nega- tive qualities. Cblo"ride of Nitrogen. Syn. Teechloeide OP NiTEOGEN. This compound was discovered by Dulong, in 1811, but its nature was first accurately determined by Sir H. Davy. Prep. (Liebig.) Dissolve hydrochlorate of ammonia, 1 oz„ in hot water, 12 or 14 oz., and as soon as the temperature has fallen to 90° Falir., invert a wide-mouthed glass bottle full of chlorine over it. The gas is gradually ab- sorbed, the solution acquires a yellow colour, and in the course of 15 to 20 minutes yellow, oil-like globules of chloride of nitrogen form upon the surface of the liquid, and ultimately sink to the bottom. The globules, as they descend, should be received in a small leaden saucer, placed under the mouth of the bottle for the purpose. Prop., S^c. Chloride of nitrogen is one of the most dangerous explosive compounds known, and should consequently be only prepared in very small quantities at a time. Both its dis- coverer and Sir H. Davy met with severe in- juries while experimenting on it. Its sp. gr. is 1'653; it volatilizes at 160° Fahr., and between 200° and 212° fulminates violently. Contact with combustible bodies at ordinary temperatures immediately causes detonation. The explosive power of this compound seems to exceed that of every known substance, not even excepting fulminating silver. A minute globule, no larger than a grain of mustard seed, placed on a platina spoon, and touched with a piece of phosphorus stuck on the point of a penknife, immediately explodes, and shivers the blade into fragments, at the same time that the vessel that contains it is broken to pieces. Olive oil, naphtha, and oil of turpen- tine, have a similar effect. See Iodide oe Niteogen {below). I'odide of Nitrogen. Syn. Teeiodide oe NITEOGEN. A dark brown or black insoluble powder, which is most safely and conveniently prepared by saturating alcohol (sp. gr. *852) with iodine, adding a large quantity of the strongest pure liquor of ammonia, and agitating the mixture; water must now be added, when iodide of nitrogen will be precipitated, and must be carefully washed with cold distilled water. Prop., ^c. It detonates violently as soon as it becomes dry, by the slightest pressui*e or friction, even that of a feather, and often spontaneously; but the explosion is scarcely so powerful as that of the chloride of nitrogen. It also explodes whilst moist, though less rea- dily. It should only be prepared in very small quantities at a time. Recent researches induce the belief that both the above compounds con- tain hydrogen. Oxides of Nitrogen. Nitrogen forms 5 dis- tinct compounds with oxygen—2 oxides, and 3 acids; containing, respectively, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 equivalents of OXYGEN to 1 of ni- TEOGEN.l 1. Protoxide of Nitrogen. Syn, Niteous ox- ide, Laughing gas ; Niteogenii peotoxy- DIJM, L. Prep. From fused nitrate of ammo- nia introduced into a glass retort, or a flask furnished with a bent tube, and then exposed, over a spirit-lamp, or charcoal-chauffer, to a temperature of about 380° Fahr.; the evolved gas may be collected in bladders, gas-bags, a gasometer, or in the pneumatic trough over warm water. Prop., Sfc. Colourless; possesses an agree- able odour, and a sweetish taste; at 32°, under a pressure of 30 atmospheres, it is liquid; this, when exposed under the receiver of a powerful air-pump, changes into a snow-like solid; at —180° Fahr., it is a transparent, colourless, crystalline body; it supports combustion, and is absorbed by cold water. Sp. gr. I*520. Its most remarkable property is its action on the system when inspired. A few deep inspira- tions are usually succeeded by a pleasing state of excitement, and a strong propensity to laughter and muscular exertion, which soon subside, without being followed by languor or depression. Its effects, however, vary with different constitutions. From 4 to 12 quarts may be breathed with safety. It produces temporary insensibility to pain, like chloroform or ether; but its use is dangerous when affec- tions of the heart, lungs, or brain, are present. Obs. No particular caution is required in preparing the above compound, except the use of too much heat. The temperature should be so arranged as to keep the melted mass in a state of gentle ebullition, and should not be allowed, under any circumstances, to exceed about 500° Fahr. Should white fumes appear within the retort after the evolution of the gas has commenced, the heat should be at once lowered, as, when heated to about 600°, nitrate of ammonia explodes with violence. Niti’ous oxide may also be made in the same way, from crystallized nitrate of ammonia, or by exposing nitric oxide for some days over iron filings moistened with water, but, without great care, the product is not always fit for re- spiration. When pure, it is colourless, has an agreeable odour, and does not affect solution of nitrate of silver. 2. Deutox'ide of Nitrogen. Syn. Niteic ox- ide,Niteohs gas,Binoxide oe niteogen; Ni- teogenii BINOXYDUM, L. Prep. By pouring nitric acid, sp. gr. 1‘2, on metallic copper, under the form of turnings, clippings, or wire. Effervescence ensues, and nitric oxide is evolved, and may be collected over water or mercury in the pneumatic trough. The residual liquid yields crystals of niteate oe coppee on eva- poration. Prop., A colourless, tasteless, inodorous, irrespirable, and incombustible gas. In con- tact with free oxygen, it produces dense orange 1 The acid compounds are noticed under the heads Nitkous Acid, Hiponitbic a., and Nitbic a.