807 JEW’S PITCH—KAKODYL. j 2. (Or-moltj colour.) This is given by covering the parts with a mixture of powdered hematite, alum, common salt, and vinegar, and applying heat until the coating blackens, when i the piece is plunged into cold water, rubbed with a brush dipped in vinegar, or in water j strongly soured with nitric acid, again washed in pure water, and dried. During this process, I the parts not to be dried in ‘ or-molu colour ’ I should be carefully protected. The frauds practised in reference to the I ‘fineness’ of the metal used in jewelry, is noticed under Gold (Jeweller’s). See also I Assaying, Diamond, Gems, Gilding Liquor, j Gilding Wax, &c. j JEW’S PITCH. See Asphaltum. I JUICE (Spanish). See Extract and Liquorice. ! JU'JUBE. A fruit, resembling a small i plum, produced by various species of Zizyphus. ' Combined with sugar, it forms the jujube I PASTE of the shops, when genuine; but that j now almost always sold under the name is a I mixture of gum and sugar, slightly coloured I and flavoured. JU'LEP. 5yn. JuLAP; Julepum, JuLEPUS, JuLAPiUM, L. A term usually regarded as synonymous with ‘mixture’; but according to the best authorities, implying a medicine which is used as a vehicle for other forms of medicine. The word comes through the I French, from a Persian expression, which sig- I nifies ‘ sweet drink.’ A julep, according to I Continental writers, is a drink of little activity. generally composed of dish lied wafers, infu- i sions, and syrups, to which mucilages and acids j are sometimes added; “ but never powders or oily substances, which could interfere with its j transparency.” In England, the juleps of old I pharmacy are now classed under mixtures I (MiSTURiE—Ph. L.). , JU"NIPER BERRIES. Syn. Juniperi ! BACCJE, J. COMMUNIS BACC.E (Ph. E.), JUNI- j PEKUS (Ph. L.), L. The fruit of the/wmjwerMs I communis, or common juniper tree. In the 1 old Ph. L. & D. both the tops and berries j (juniperi eructus et cacumina — Ph. L. I 1836; JUNIPERUS—BACC.E, CACUMINA—Ph. I D. 1826) were ordered. The berries are I stomachic and diuretic, and have been long employed in dropsies, either alone or combined with foxglove and squills. The tops (sum- MiTATEs) have been highly praised in scurvy j and certain cutaneous affections. Dose. 1 or j 2 dr., made into a conserve with sugar, or in i the form of infusion or tea. I JUN'KET. Syn. Devonshire junket, I Curd jelly. From warm milk put into a ' bowl, and then turned with a little rennet; I some scalded cream and sugar are next added, I with a sprinkling of cinnamon on the top, j without breaking the curd. Much esteemed j by ‘ holiday folk ’ in the western counties, I during the hot weather of summer. Some- I times, very strangely, a little brandy finds its j way into these ‘ trifles.’ KAK'ODYL. Syn. Kakodyle, Kadodule*, Kakododyle*. a peculiar compound of hy- drogen, carbon, and arsenic, discovered by M. Bunsen, and shown by him to be an or- ganic basyl, capable of forming a vast number of combinations, and generally deporting itself like a metal. Prep. Pure anhydrous chloride of kakodyl is digested for about 3 hours, at a temperature of 212° Fahr., with slips of clean metallic zinc contained in a bulb blown upon a glass tube, previously filled with carbonic acid gas, and hermetically sealed; when the action is com- plete, and the w^hole has become cold, the tube is cautiously opened, and the white saline matter which has formed is dissolved in a little water; a heavy oily liquid (kakodyl) separates, and is purified by distillation from a little fresh zinc, in an atmosphere of car- bonic acid gas. The operation is conducted in a tube having two bulbs blown on it, and bent at right angles, so that one bulb may serve as the retort and the other as the receiver, the two extremities being drawn to a point and hermetically sealed. Prop., 6(*c. A colourless, transparent, thin liquid; extremely fetid and inflammable; in- flames on contact with chlorine and oxygen; on the least exposure to atmospheric air, it gives off* w'hite fumes and passes first into the state of OXIDE oe kakodyl, and then into KAKODYLic ACID; it boils at 338°^ crystallizes in square prisms when cooled to 21° Fahr., and is decomposed by a heat much below redness. Obs. All the preparations of kakodyl (ex- cept KAKODYLIC aoid) are exceedingly poi- sonous, and therefore great caution should be exercised in experimenting on them. All the operations connected with them must be con- ducted in the open air, and , the strictest pre- cautions adopted to avoid the accidental in- halation of the smallest quantity of the vapour or its products. Vomiting, numbness of the extremities, fainting, and other alarming symptoms, are the consequences of the most trifling neglect. They all evolve a most offen- sive odour, and this property has led Bunsen to propose the following test for arsenic and the ACETATES:—The suspected substance is boiled with water containing a little potassa, the resulting liquid is filtered, mixed with acetic acid, and evaporated to dryness; the residuum, heated in a test tube, will evolve the horrible odour of alkarsin (‘ oxide of kakodyl’) if ARSENIC is present. This odour is rendered, if possible, even more offensive by the addition of protochloride of tin to the ignited mass. As a test for the acetates, the addition of a little arsenic must be made.^ Chlo"ride of Kakodyl. Prep. A dilute al- coholic solution of oxide of kakodyl is very cautiously mixed with an equally dilute solution of bichloride of mercury, avoiding excess of the latter; the resulting white precipitate is dis- 1 See page 315.