WINE. 1343 Ij surface to ensure an equable temperature. It .^1 should also be sufficiently removed from any |i public thoroughfare, so as not to suffer vibra- tion from the passing of carriages. Should it not be in a position to maintain a regular temperature, arrangements should be made to apply artificial heat in winter, and proper ven- tilation in summer. In a celebrated wine- establishment, known to the writer (Mr. Cooley), where the cellars are above ground, a number of thermometers are suspended on the I walls, and whenever the mercury sinks below 1 48° Fahr. several ArnotCs stoves, arranged ' for that purpose, are immediately lighted, ; and their action properly watched and regu- I lated. I Colouring. Wines are as commonly doc- 1 tored in their colour as their flavour. A ' FAWN-YELLOW and GOLDEN-SHERRY YELLOW I are given by means of tincture or infusion of saffron, turmeric, or safflower, followed by a little spirit colouring, to prevent the colour I being too lively. -^1 shades of amber and FAWN, to DEEP BROWN and BRANDY Colour, are given by burnt sugar. Cochineal (either alone or with a little alum) gives a pink colour; beet-rOot and red senders give a red (( colour; the extracts of rhatany and logwood, d and the juice of elderberries, bilberries, &c., '1 give a port-wine colour. A hogshead of in- % ferior pale sherry or white cape is commonly converted into a ‘full-flavoured brown ii SHERRY ^ by the ‘ honest ’ wine-dealer, by the I addition of \ pint of spirit colouring, a gallon ? of brandy, and a few drops of the essential oil i| of almonds dissolved in a little rectified spirit; 4 the whole being well mixed, and in a few days II fined down. I;| Crusting. To make port wine form a crust < on the inside of the bottles, a spoonful of pow~ f dered catechu, or ^ a spoonful of finely pow- 01 dered cream of tartar, is added to each bottle ||i before corking it, after which the whole is well I agitated. It is also a common practice to put I the crust on the bottle before putting the wine I into it, by employing a hot saturated solution of red tartar, thickened with gum and some powdered tartar. Deacetification. This is effected by the cautious addition of either salt of tartar or j carbonate of soda. Wine so treated soon gets insipid by exposure and age; and, without care, the colour of red wines is thus frequently spoiled. Deacidification. See Detartarization {below). Decanting. This only refers to small quantities of wine, ready for consumption. In decanting wine, care must be taken not to shake or disturb the crust when moving it about or drawing the cork, particularly of port wine. Never decant wine without a I wine-strainer, with some clean fine cambric in it, to prevent the crust and bits of cork going into the decanter. In decanting port wine, do not drain it too close; as there are generally two thirds of a wine-glassful of thick dregs in each bottle, which ought to be rejected. In white wine there is not much settling; but it should nevertheless be poured off very slowly, the bottle being raised gradually. Decolouring. The colour of wine is precipi- tated by age and by exposure to the light. It is also artificially removed by the action of skimmed milk, lime water, milk of lime, and fresh burnt charcoal. Wine merchants avail themselves of this property for the purpose of whitening wines that have acquired a brown colour from the cask, or which are esteemed pale; and also for turning ‘ pricked ’ red or dark-coloured wines into white wines, in which a small degree of acidity is not so much per- ceived. In this way brown sherry is com- monly converted into pale or gold-coloured sherry. For the latter purpose, 2 to 3 pints of skimmed milk are usually sufficient; but to decolour red wine 2 to 3 quarts or more will be required, according to the nature and in- tensity of the colour, or the shade of paleness desired. Charcoal is seldom used, as it re- moves the flavour as well as colour, but a little milk of lime may sometimes be advantageously substituted for milk, when the wine has much acidity, more particularly for red wines, which may even be rendered quite colourless by it. Detartarization. Ehenish wines, even of the most propitious growths, and in the best condition, besides their tartar, contain a cer- tain quantity of free tartaric acid, on the presence of which many of their leading pro- perties depend. The excess of tartar is gra- dually deposited during the first years of the vatting, the sides of the vessels becoming more and more encrusted with it; but, owing to the continual addition of new wine, and other causes, the liquid often gains such an excess of free tartaric acid, as to acquire the faculty of redissolving the deposited tartar, which thus again disappears after a certain period. The taste and favour of the wine are thus exalted, but the excess of acid makes the wine less agreeable in use, and probably less wholesome. Amateurs and manufacturers should therefore welcome a means of taking away the free tartaric acid, without altering, in any respect, the quality of the wine. This is pure neutral tartrate of potash. When this salt, in con- centrated solution, is added to such a fluid as the above, the free acid combines with the neutral salt, and separates from the liquid under the form of the sparingly soluble bitar- trate of potash. “ If to 100 parts of a wine which contains one part of free tartaric acid, we add 1^ part of neutral tartrate of potash, there will separate on repose, at 70 to 75° Fahr., 2 parts of crystallized tartar; and the wine will then contain only ^ part of tartar dissolved, in which there are only *2 part of the original free acid; ’8 part of the original free acid having been withdrawn from the wine.” (Liebig’s ‘Annalen.’) This method is particularly applicable to recent must and