BREAD. 355 liquid/ give a white precipitate when alum is present. When nearly the whole of the alum has suffered decomposition in the loaf, as is fre- quently the case, the following process is re- quired : — h, (M. Kuhlman.) 4 or 5 oz. of bread are reduced to ‘ ashes,’ which are powdered and treated with nitric acid, the mixture evapo- rated to dryness, and about 1 oz. of hot water t added. A little caustic potassa is added to the last solution (unfiltered), the whole boiled a few minutes, and passed through a filter. The I ‘ filtrate ’ is next tested with a solution of sal- ^ ammoniac, and the whole again boiled for 2 or I 3 minutes. If a precipitate forms it is * alu- \ mina’ j every 50 gr. of which are equivalent to \ 332 gr. of CEYSTALLISED ALUM. c. The ‘ suspected sample ’ is wetted with a » tveak solution of logwood. Pure bread is only slightly stained by this solution; bread con- i taining alum strikes a lavender, lilac, or pur- ^ pie colour, according to the quantity of the J adulterant present. If it acquires a pearl- t gray, or bluish tint, some alkali (potash, soda, or ammonia) is present. 2. Copper :—a. Moisten the ‘ suspected ' bread ’ with a few drops of a solution of ferro- cyanide of potassium. It will assume a pink- ish-brown colour if COPPER be present. I b. A little of the ‘ bread ’ may be steeped in hot water, or better still in water soured with a little nitric acid, and the clear liquor I squeezed or poured off, and tested with/erro- cyanide of potassium, as before. 3. Magnesia :—Bread adulterated with magnesia, on digestion in hot water acidulated with sulphuric acid, furnishes a liquid which gives a white precipitate when tested with a I solution of either carbonate of potassa or of j carbonate of soda, especially on boiling. 4. Soda; Potassa:—Hot water after di- gestion on the ashes or charcoal turns turmeric paper brown. The liquid may be evaporated to dryness, redissolved in distilled water, slightly acidulated with hydrochloric acid, and tested with bichloride of platinum. If a yellow crystalline precipitate forms, either at once or after some hours, it is potash ; other- wise, the alkali present is soda. 5, Chalk, whiting, burnt bones, plaster OF Paris, and similar substances, are easily detected by calcining a little of the flour or bread in a clean open vessel, when the amount of ashes left will indicate the quantity of adulteration. The quantity of the ash left by ‘genuine’ bread or flour is very trifling indeed.' Concluding Remarks. A number of pro- cesses are used by cooks and confectioners to make the different varieties of fancy bread, cakes, puddings, 8^c., which vary according to the peculiar characteristic it is desired to com- ! municate to them; but none of these articles I properly belong to the trade of the common ^ Somewlicre about 2%. baker. Thus some kinds of cakes and pastes are made to eat ‘ short,^ as it is called, or are rendered less tenacious, and a species of brit- tleness imparted to them, by the addition of starch, rice-four, or sugar. In pastry a similar effect and peculiar lightness is produced by butter or lard, whilst in some articles, white- of-egg, gum-water, isinglass, and other adhesive substances are added to produce an exceedingly light and porous mass. The different varieties of bread made in England vary, in their quality, chiefly accord- ing to the flour of which they are formed. The best white bread is made from the purest wheat-flour ; ordinary wheaten bread, of flour containing a little of the finest bran; SECONDS, from flour containing a still larger proportion of bran; and common household- bread, from flour produced by grinding the whole substance of the grain, without any se- paration of the bran. The last variety is un- doubtedly the most wholesome and nutritious, although that least frequently used. Symnel- BREAD, MANCHET Or ROLL-BREAD, and FRENCH BREAD, are varieties made of the purest flour, from the finest wheat, a little milk being usu- ally added for rolls, and butter and eggs for choicer purposes. Several other minor kinds of bread are also made, varied by the addition of sundry trifles, as sugar, currants, and other palatable ingredients. The Scotch short- bread is made from a very thick dough, to which butter, sugar, orange-peel, and spices, are added, according to the taste of the maker. In the manufacture of white bread from damaged or ‘ inferior flour,’ a large quantity of alum is employed by the fraudulent baker, as already noticed; but with the ‘ best flour ’ no alum is required. The utmost beauty, sponginess, and sweetness, may be given to bread without the addition of one particle of alum, provided the best materials alone enter into its composition. As such materials are seldom employed by the bakers, the usual prac- tice is to introduce 4 or 5 oz. of alum to every sack of flour, or about 1 oz. to each bushel; and very frequently fully double this quantity of alum is employed. But even this enormous quantity is often not the whole of the alum present in common bread; for the ‘ miller,’ in order to cheat the baker, puts in the ‘ doctor ’ in the shape of 4 to 6 oz. of alum to the sack, whilst the ‘ baker,’ unconscious of this victimi- sation, subsequently uses a double dose of alum in order to cheat his customers? The method of detecting this pernicious adultera- tion has been already explained. The proper quantity of salt is 4 lb., and never more than 5 lb., to the sack, or 1 lb. per bushel. One 2 Tlie common excuse of the haJcers for using alum is, that witliout it the bread is not ‘sufficiently white’ to please their customers, and that the ‘batches’ are not easily parted into loaves after baking; but Liebig has shewn that deal’ lime-water, which is perfectly harmless, will effect the same object if substituted for the simple water used to make tlie dough.