CURARINE—CUSPARINE. 495 but simply passes its mouth rapidly over the flame of the lamp. When it is held over the ! flame even for a few seconds, the compression I of the edge of the cup upon the skin is so I great, that it checks the flow of the blood to j the scarifled part. A good cupper also removes I the cups without spilling the contents, and ' completes the whole operation quickly and neatly. There are, however, few persons, wdio i are not professional cuppers, who are sufii- i ciently expert to exhaust the air in the cup by j means of the common lamp; although it is by ' far the best. A good plan is to rarify the air in the cup by means of a small cone of paper, I dipped in spirits of wine, or strong brandy; ! this is ignited and thrown in the cup, which ; is instantly to be applied to the proper spot. Where cupping-glasses and the scarificator are ) not to be had, wine-glasses, or any very small I tumblers, may be substituted for the first; and I small incisions by means of a thumb lancet will I answer the purpose of the other. The cicatrices of the scarifications leave per- i manent marks on the skin; on which account, j when blood is to be drawn from the head or I neck, the glasses should be applied behind the I ears, and a portion of hair removed in such a I manner that the part may be covered by what remains. I A most convenient cupping apparatus is ; manufactured by Mr. Bigg, the eminent sur- I gical-instrument maker of Leicester Square, 1 consisting of cups and an exhausting syringe, j so arranged that the use of the spirit-lamp is I rendered unnecessary, and the operation of ; cupping may be performed nearly as expertly j by an inexperienced nurse as by the most ac- j complished professional operator. It is in- I valuable in places remote from town. ' CURAR'INE. The vegeto-alkaline base of I the arrow-poison of Central America. ^ CURCU'MINE. The yellow colouring mat- I ter of turmeric, obtained by digesting the j alcoholic extract of the powder in ether, and ! evaporating the clear ethereal solution to dry- ! ness. A brownish-yellow mass, yielding a ! bright-yellow powder. It is scarcely soluble I in water, but very soluble in both alcohol and I ether, Boracic and hydrochloric acids redden 1 it; alkalies turn it reddish brown. I * CURD. Coagulated caseine. See Cheese. I CUR'RANTS. The currants of our garden I are varieties of the Ribes rubrum and Ribes \ nigrum. (Linn.) The flrst includes eed ctje- I EANTS and WHITE CUREANTS; the fruit of both of which are gently acidulous, cooling, and 1 wholesome. The juice makes excellent wine. I The fruit of the last (black chreants, ' QUiNSY-BEEEiEs) is aperitive, and has been I used in calculous affections; the juice is made j into wine, jellies, jams, lozenges, &c. The young j leaves are used as a substitute for tea; one or I two buds, or half a small leaf, impart to black \ tea the flavour and fragrance of green. The 1 currants of the grocers (Zante CTJEEANTS) are I a small variety of dried grapes. CUR'RY. Syn. Cueeie. A noted dish in Indian cookery, much esteemed throughout the East. Curries are simply stews, of which rice usually forms a characteristic ingredient, highly flavoured with fried onions and curry powder, to which sliced apples and lemon juice are sometimes added. They are made from every variety of fish, meat, poultry, game, &c., according to the fancy of the parties. Cur'ry Powder. Prep. (Kitchener.) From coriander-seed, ^ lb. ; turmeric, ^ lb. ; cinna- mon-seed, 2 oz.; cayenne, ^ oz.; mustard, 1 oz. ; ground ginger, 1 oz. ; allspice, ^ oz. ; fenugreek- seed, 2 oz.; all dried thoroughly, pounded in a mortar, rubbed through a sieve, and mixed together. Obs. The above must be regarded as merely a substitute for ‘ Indian curry powder,* which contains many ingredients not to be obtained in England. It should be kept in a bottle closely corked or stoppered. CUS'CONINE. See Aricine. CUSPA"RIA. Syn. Cuspaeia bark, An- gosth"ea b. ; Coe'tex angosth"e.e, C. cuspa"ei.e, Cuspaeia (Ph. L. & E.), L. “The bark of Galipea cusparia” (Ph. L.), or Galipea officinalis (Ph. E.). A valuable drug, imported directly or indirectly from South America. Dose. 10 gr. to 30 gr., as a tonic, stomachic, and febrifuge, in similar cases to those in which cascarilla, calumba, and cinchona, are commonly given. Angostura or cusparia bark has fallen into comparative disuse, in consequence of Nux vomica or EALSE ANGOSTUEA BAEK having formerly, in several instances, been mistaken for it, and administered with fatal results. The leading characteristics of these two barks have been pointed out by M. Guibourt, and are as follows:— Characters. False Angustura. True Angustura. ^Flat, or rolled ' 1 ' Thick, rugous, rolled up, little wrinkled, Form . . upon itself. Edges* 1 1 1 L cut perpendicularly. p Brown, or greenisli-' yellow, presenting edges be- „ veled. protuberances or ex- 1 Colour . . -j crescences, produced [ by the great deve- , 1 lopmeiit of the corky layer, which has a still more yellow co- 1 Grayish- yellow. lour. Taste . . 1 Very bitter .... Bitter. Reaction with Nitric Acid . . . 1 1 Red colour when drop-' r ped upon the bark . 1 Ydloto r colour. CUSPAR'INE. Syn. Angostu"eine, An- gostu"ea. The bitter principle of Cusparia- bark. It is neutral; crystallizes in tetrahe- drons; is easily fusible; soluble in rectified spirits, in acids, and in alkaline solutions. It is precipitated of a whitish colour hy tincture of galls.