WHITEWASH—WINDOWS. 1338 2. (Stuff ; Baker’s stuff.) From alum, ground to the coarseness of common salt, 1 lb.; common salt, 3 lb.; mixed together. Both the above are used by bakers for the purpose of clandestinely introducing alum into their bread. WHITEWASH. Whiting is made into a milk with water, and a small quantity of melted size or dissolved glue added. It is applied to walls or ceilings with a broad, flat brush, worked in a uniform direction. Should the surface have been previously whitewashed, it is requisite first to remove the dirt by washing it with a brush and abundance of clean water. “ Lime-washinu is, from the cleansing ac- tion of the quicklime, much the more eflTectual mode of purification, hut is less frequently had recourse to, from the general ignorance re- specting the proper mode of preparing the XiME-WASH. If glue is employed, it is destroyed by the corrosive action of the lime, and, in consequence, the latter easily rubs off the walls when dry. This is the case also if the lime he employed, as is often absurdly recom- mended, simply slaked in water, and used without any fixing material. Lime-wash is prepared by placing some freshly burned quick- lime in a pail, and pouring on sufficient water to cover it; ‘ boiled oiV (linseed) should then he immediately added, in the proportion of a pint to a gallon of the wash. For coarser work, any common refuse fat may be used in- stead of the boiled oil. The whole should then he thinned with water to the required consistency, and applied with a brush. Care should be taken not to leave the brush in the lime-wash for any length of time, as it destroys the bristles.” (W. B. Tegetmeier.) WHFTING. See White Pigments. WHITING. The Gadus merlangus (Linn.), a member of the cod family of fishes. It is a very light and nutritious fish, and well adapted to dyspeptics and invalids; but it has too little fiavour to be a favourite with gour- mands. WHIT'LOW. Syn. Whitloe; Parony- chia, L. A painful inflammation, tending to suppuration and abscess, at the ends of the fingers, and mostly under or about the nails. Emollient poultices are useful in this affection; extreme tension and pain may be relieved by an incision, so as to allow the exit of the pus or matter from under the nail. The treat- ment must also be directed to establish the general health, as without this local remedies often fail. WHOOPING-COUGH. Syn. Chin-cough, Hooping-c., Kin.-c. ; Pertussis, L. A con- vulsive strangling cough, characterised by pe- culiar sonorous or whooping inspirations, from which its popular name is taken. It comes on in fits, which are usually terminated by vomiting. It is infectious, chiefly attacks children, and, like the smallpox, only occurs once during life. The treatment of whooping-cough consists, chiefly, in obviating irritation, and in exciting nausea and occasional vomiting. For the first, aperients and sedatives (hemlock or hen- bane), in small doses, may be given; for the second intention, an extremely weak sweetened solution of tartarized antimony, or a mixture containing squills or ipecacuanha, may be ad- ministered in small doses every hour or two, according to the effect produced. In full habits, blisters and leeches may be resorted to; and in all cases opiate and stimulating embro- cations maj”^ be applied to the chest and spine with advantage. Whenever the head is af- fected, the use of narcotics is contra-indicated. The hot bath is often serviceable. “A mix- ture of cochineal and carbonate of potassa is by some regarded as almost a specific for this disease; but our own observations lead us to look with more favour on antimonial nau- seants and emetics.” (Cooley.) See Antimo- NiALS, Draught, Mixture, Oxymel, Syrup, Wines, &c. WHOR'TLEBERRY (Bear’s). Syn. Uva URSi (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. The leaf of Arc- tostaphylos Uva Ursi, trailing arbutus, or bear- berry. Astringent. Bose. 10 to 30 gr. of the powder, thrice daily. See Decoction and Extract. WIKA'NA. Syn. Wacaka des Indes, Fr. Prep. (Guibourt.) Roasted chocolate nuts (ground), 2 oz.; powdered cinnamon, 2 dr.; powdered vanilla, ^ dr.; ambergris, 3 gr.; musk, 1^ gr.; sugar, 6 oz.; well mixed to- gether. A teaspoonful is boiled with ^ pint of milk, or arrow-root, as a stimulating diet for convalescents. WILD CHER'RY. The Prunus Virginiana, a beautiful tree, growing wild in the western states of America. The inner bark' (wild- cherry bark) is officinal in the Ph. U. S., and is a valuable sedative tonic. It is spe- cially adapted for thfe alleviation of the dis- tressing cough which is so harassing to pa- tients with pulmonary disease. See Infusion. WILD'FIRE RASH. Strophulus volaticus. WIL'LOW. Syn. Salix, L. The barks of Salix alba or white wiUow, Salix fragilis or crack willow, and Salix Caprea or great round- leaved willow (willow BARK; SALICIS COR- Ticis—Ph. E.), were officinal in the Ph. D. 1826; and, with that of Salix Russelliana, and other species, are rich in salicin, and hence possess considerable febrifuge power. Dose. ^ to 1 dr., either in powder or made into a de- coction ; as a substitute for Peruvian bark, in agues, hectics, debility, dyspepsia, &c. WIN'DOWS. A PRISMATIC or crystalline appearance may be imparted to windows by several expedients:— 1. Mix a hot solution of sulphate of mag- nesia (Epsom salt) with a clear solution of gum arabic, and lay it on hot. For a margin, or for figures, wipe off the part you wish to remain clear with a wet towel as soon as the surface has become cold and hard. The effect is very