239 ASSIMILATION—ASTHENOPY. I these latter metals have to oxidise rapidly in 1 contact with lead at a high temperature, and to sink with it into any porous earthen vessel, in a thin, glassy or vitriform state. The con- ditions essential to the success of the process, I and which are found in the precious metals, are i—that “ the metal from which we wish to part ithe oxides must not be volatile;” and that ' “ it should also melt and form a button at the heat of cupellation; for otherwise it would I continue disseminated, attached to the portion iof oxide spread over the cupel, and incapable of being collected.”^ Concluding Remarks. The art of assaying I requires very great care, skill, and experience, jfor its due exercise; and from the costliness of jthe precious metals, and their general employ- imentfor coin,jewelry, plate, &c.,isof the utmost j importance both to individuals and govern- iments. Such is the extreme delicacy of the operation of cupellation, that, without the re- I quisites alluded to, it is more likely to fail than I to give reliable results. An assay is thought to be ‘ good ’ when the ‘ button^ or ‘ bead' sepa- jrates readily from the cupel, has a round form, jwith a brilliant upper surface, and the lower one granular and of a dead metallic lustre. When the upper surface is ‘ dead ’ and ‘ flat,’ too much heat has been employed; and in the case of silver, some of the metal may have been lost by fuming or absorption. When the jbead adheres to the cupel, or is spongy, varie- i gated, or has scales of litharge still adhering j to it, either too little heat has been used, or the i process has been stopped before the assay was 1 complete. The remedy is re-exposure to heat in the cupel, adding a little powdered charcoal I or a few small pieces of paper, and continuing I the heat until the metal ‘ brightens ’ and ‘ cir- Iculates ’ freely. The lead employed must be absolutely pure, or that technically called i‘^oor lead’\ and, for this purpose, is commonly I prepared by the reduction of refined litharge I mixed with some carbonaceous matter, by heat; I but, according to the late T. H. Henry, “ lead I reduced from the litharge of commerce usually (Contains from 10 to 15 dwt. of silver per ton.” I These remarks apply equally to gold and silver. I The process of ‘assaying by the cupel,’ I however skilfully conducted, gives much less 'accurate results, especially with silver, than jthe method of chemical analysis, often termed * humid’ or ^ volumetrical assay whilst it is, iin all cases, much more troublesome and ex- i pensive, and with compounds containing only I small quantities of the precious metals, is not I to be depended on. See Gold, Silvee; also (Caeat, Cupellation, Paeting, Liquation, iQuaetation, Refining, &c. (and below).^ I Assay of the Touch. The^wcwm of jewel- |LEET, and of small quantities of GOLD which it j ^ Ure’s ^'Dict. of Arts, M., ^ il/.,” 5th ed., i. 214. ' ® Tliose desirous of further information on the subject jtlian that contained in this work, are referred to Mitehell’s y Manual of Assaying,” and to the various memoirs of Gaj-Lussac, Chaudet,D’Arcct, Tillet, Jirande,Ure, Henry, |nud others. I is either impossible or inconvenient to assay ac- cording to the usual method, is generally determined by means of touch-needles and touchstones. The former are made in sets, containing gold of different degrees of fine- ness, and differently alloyed with copper and silver. The latter are usually of black basalt; but pieces of good black pottery answer the purpose very well. The mode of using them is to mark the stone with the sample under examination, and to compare its appearance^ hardness, colour, 8(c., with that produced by one or more of the needles. When the two are similar, the quality or‘fineness’is con- sidered to be the same. The marks are then further examined by heating the ‘ touchstone ’ to redness, and moistening the strokes with aquafortis, when the appearances resulting from oxidation, &c., differ according to the nature and quantity of the alloy. A nearly similar method is sometimes adopted with SILVEE; but the characteristics are scarcely so distinct with that metal. (See above.) Hu'mid Assaying, Humid Assay. Terms applied to the estimation of the quantity of gold and silver in ores and alloys in the ‘ moist way,’ more especially by the method known as ‘ volumetrical analysis.’ See Gold (Estim.), Silvee (Estim.), Volumeteical Analysis, &c. ASSIMILA'TION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Assi- mila'tio, L. ; Aneigung, Veeahnlichung, &c., Ger. In physiology, the conversion of food into nutriment, and finally into the sub- stances which compose organic bodies; the function of nutrition. According to Professor Tiedemann, every vital action depends on some modification of the assimilative process. The germ, in its original formation, is endowed with the pro- perty of excitability (vitality, life), or power of re-action when excited; and its expansion into the complete organism, is effected by the continual process of assimilation or nutrition, each new part or increment acquiring its own peculiar excitability (vitality), which is called into activity by its own appropriate stimuli, and which is an extension of the original power bestowed on the germ, modified by the structure of the new formation, and influencing the vital manifestations of the entire organism. See Life, Nuteition, Vitality, &c. ASSIZE' (of bread). See Bee ad. ASTHEN'IA (-y’a; or -thene'-). [L.; prim. Gr.] Syn. As'theny* (-then-), Eng.; Asthe- NiE, Fr.; ScHWACHE, ScHWACiiiiEiT, Ger, In pathology, loss of strength, debility. ASTHEN'IC. Syn. Asthen'icus, L. ; As- THENiQUE, Debile, Fr.; ScHWAcn, Ger. Weak ; debilitated. In pathology, an epithet of diseases (asthen'ic diseases) accompanied by great and well-marked debility. ASTHEN'OPY. Syn. Astheno'pia, L. In pathology, incapacity to keep the eyes fixed on near or small objects for any length of time without confusion of vision. Tlie common