427 CHELIDONIC ACID—CHICORY. to keep off the dirt. This temoves the objec- tion existing in small families against pur- chasing a whole cheese at a time. The common practice of buying small quantities of cheese should be avoided, as not only a higher price is paid for any given quality, but there is little likelihood of obtaining exactly the same fla- vour twice running. Should cheese become too dry to be agreeable, it may be used for stewing, or for making grated cheese or Welsh rare-bits. Ap'ple Cheese. The pomace or ground I apples from the cider press. Dam'son Cheese. Prep. From damsons boiled with a little water, the pulp passed through a sieve, and then boiled with about one fourth the weight of sugar, until the mix- ture solidifies on cooling ; it is next poured into small tin moulds previously dusted out with sugar. Cherry cheese, gooseberry cheese, ' plum cheese, &c., are prepared in the same way, using the respective kinds of fruit. They are i all very agreeable candies or confections. ■ Facti'tious Roque'fort Cheese. Prep. (Roulle.) The gluten of wheat is kneaded with a little salt, and a small portion of a solution of i starch, and made up into cheeses. It is I said that this mixture soon acquires the taste, smell, and unctuosity of cheese, and when kept a certain time is not to be distin- guished from the celebrated Roquefort cheese, j of which it possesses all the peculiar pungency. I By slightly varying the process, other kinds of cheese may be imitated. Legu'men Cheese. The Chinese prepare 1 an actual cheese from peas, called tao-foo,^^ ' which they sell in the streets of Canton. The ^ paste from steeped ground peas is boiled, which ! causes the starch to dissolve with the casein ; I after straining the liquid, it is coagulated by I a solution of gypsum / this coagulum is worked i up like sour milk, salted, and pressed into I moulds. Toast'ed Cheese. This much relished article is seldom well prepared. The following has been recommended as an excellent receipt:— I Cut the cheese into slices of moderate thick- ness, and put them into a tinned copper sauce- pan, with a little butter and cream ; simmer very gently until they are quite dissolved, then remove the saucepan from the fire, allow the whole to cool a little, add some yolk of egg, well beaten, add spice, make the compound into a “ shape,and brown it before the fire. : See Fotidtje. CHELIDONIC ACID. From the Chelidonium majus or great celandine, in which it exists combined with lime, and associated with malic and fumaric acid. It forms slender, colour- * less needles, very soluble in w^ater ; is tribasic, I forming three classes of salts, and when ex- posed to a high temperature, is converted in Pyrochelidonic acid. CHEL'SEA PEN'SIONER. Prep. From gum guaiacum, ^ oz.; rhubarb, ^ oz.; cream of tartar, 2 oz.; flowers of sulphur, 4 oz.; ft nutmegs, 2 in number; (all in powder); honey, 1^ lb., or q. s.; made into an electuary by beating them together in a mortar. Bose. One to two tablespoonfuls, night and morn- ing, in gout and chronic rheumatism. The name is said to have been given-to it from the circumstance of a Chelsea pensioner having cured Lord Amherst with it. CHELTENHAM SALTS. See Salts. CHEM'IQUE or CHEMTC BLUE. See In- digo. CHEROOT'. A species of cigar imported from Manilla, in the Philippine Islands, dis- tinguished by extreme simplicity of construc- tion, as well as delicacy of flavour. The cigars now so commonly sold as cheroots in England are, for the most part, made of inferior to- bacco, and are often much adulterated articles. CHER'RIES are the fruit of different species of the genus Cerasus. They are regarded as wholesome, cooling, nutritive, laxative, and antiscorbutic. Brandy flavoured with this fruit or its juice is known as cherry-brandy. Morello cherries preserved in brandy are called brandy cherries. See Beandy, Fruit, &c. CHER'RY LAUR'EL. Syn. Lau'rel. The Cerasus Lauro-Cerasus, a shrub common in every garden in England, and often con- founded with the true Laurel or Sweet Bay, which does not possess any of its deleterious properties. Leaves, occasionally used instead of bay leaves in cookery. The distilled oil and distilled water are both poisonous. See Oil, Water. CHI'CA. The red colouring matter deposited by a decoction of the leaves of Bignonia Chica in cooling. Used by the American Indians to stain their skin. It is soluble in alcohol, ether, oil, fat, and alkaline lyes, and slightly so in boiling water. Chi'ca. See Maize-beer. CHIC'ORY. Syn. Wild suc'cort; Cichor'- lUM Inty'bus (Linn.), L. A plant belonging to the natural order Composites. It is indi- genous to this and many other countries of Europe, and is extensively cultivated for the sake of its roots, which are sliced, roasted, and ground, to form the chicory of the shops. Nearly 100 millions of pounds are annually consumed in Europe. Much of the chicory used in Britain is of home growth; but still more is imported in a raw state from Holland and other parts of the Continent. A blue dye has been prepared from the leaves of this plant. The FRESH ROOT OF CHICORY (ra'DIX CHI- co'Rii re'cens) is reputed to be alterative, attenuant, diuretic, febrifuge, hepatic, resolv- ent, and tonic; and in large doses, aperient. It is now seldom used in medicine, although it appears to possess similar qualities and equal activity to those of dandelion. ‘"An infusion of the root, mixed with syrup, be- comes thick; forming the gomme saccho- CHicoRiNE of Lacarterie.” (Fee.) The ROASTED ROOT is prepared by cutting