PICOLINE--PICROTOXIN. 1064 Peas. As beans or caelielowees. Piccalilli. See Indian Pickle. Radish Pods. As beans or gheekins. Samphire. From the perennial samphire {Erythmum maritimurn), covered with strong vinegar, to each pint of which f oz. of salt has been added, and poured on boiling hot. Said to excite the appetite. Tomatoes. From the common tomato or love apple, as gheekins. Walnuts. From the young fruit of Juglans regia, or common walnut.—1. Steep them in strong hrine for a week, tlien bottle them, add spice, and pour on the vinegar boiling hot. 2. On each pint of the nuts, spread on a dish, sprinkle 1 oz. of common salt; expose them to the sun or a full light for 10 or 12 days, frequently basting them with their own liquor; lastly, bottle them, and pour on the vinegar boiling hot. 3. (Dr. Kitchener.) Gently simmer the fruit in hrine, then expose it on a cloth for a day or two, or until it turns black; next put it into bottles or jars, pour hot spiced vinegar over it, and cork down immediately. In this way the pickle becomes sufficiently mature for the table in half the time required for that prepared by the common method. Dr. Kit- chener also recommends this parboiling pro- cess for several other pickles. Some persons pierce the fruit with an awl or stocking-needle, in several places, in order to induce early ma- turation. The spices usually employed are mustard-seed, allspice, and ginger, with a little mace and garlic. PIC'OLINE. An oily substance, discovered by Dr. Anderson, associated with aniline, CHINOLINE, and some other volatile bases, in certain varieties of coal-tae naphtha. It is separated from these substances by careful dis- tillation, being the most volatile. It is colour- less, limpid, strongly odorous, acrid, and bitter tasted j miscible with water in all proportions, insoluble in alkaline and saline solutions, re- markably alkaline and basic, and forms well- defined and crystallizable salts with the acids; liquid at 0°, and boils at 272° Fahr. Sp. gr. *955. Unlike aniline, it does not become brown by age or by slight exposure to the air. PIC'RIC ACID. Syn. Caebazotic acid, Niteophenisic a. a peculiar compound formed by the action of strong nitric acid on indigo, aloes, silk, wool, and several other sub- stances. Prep. Add, cautiously and gradually, 1 part of powdered indigo to 10 or 12 parts of hot nitric acid of the sp. gr. 1*43; when the reac- tion has moderated and the scum has fallen, add an additional quantity of nitric acid, and boil the whole until red fumes are no longer evolved; redissolve the crystals of impure picric acid deposited in boiling distilled water, and remove any oily matter found floating on the surface of the solution by means of bibu- lous paper; a second time redissolve in boiling water the crystals which form as the liquid cools, saturate the new solution with carbonati\ of potassa, and set it aside to crystallize; the crystals of piceate op potassa thus obtained must be purified by several re-solutions and re-crystallizations, and next decomposed by nitric acid; the crystals deposited as the liquid cools yield pure picric acid by again dissolving them in boiling water, and re-crys- tallization. Prop., Sfc. Brilliant yellow scales, scarcely soluble in cold water, but very soluble in boil- ing water, and in alcohol and ether; fusible volatile; taste, insupportably bitter, and very permanent. It forms salts with the bases (piceates, caebazotates), mostly possessing a yellow colour, and exploding when heated. The PICEATE OP LEAD has been proposed as a fulminating powder for percussion caps. The PICEATE OP POTASSA has been given with ad- vantage in intermittent fevers. A solution oj picric acid in alcohol is an excellent test for potassa, if there be not too much water pre- sent, as it throws down a yellow crystalline precipitate with that alkali, but forms a very soluble salt with soda. Most of the piceates may be made by the direct .solution of the carbonate, hydrate, or oxide of the base, in a solution of the acid in hot water. The piceate OF SILYEE forms beautiful starry groups of acicular crystals, having the colour and lustre of gold. The principal use of crude picric acid is for dyeing yellow. It is said to be largely em- ployed for the adulteration of beer. It is, however, highly poisonous. According to Prof. Rapp, it acts deleteriously both when swal- lowed and applied to the unsound skin. Five grains seriously affected a large dog, and killed it within 24 hours. It induces vomiting, feebleness, and general loss of nervous tone. The tissues of animals poisoned by it (even the white of the eye) were tinged of a yellow colour. See Poetee, &c. PICRO-ERYTH'RIN. A crystallizable, bitter principle, formed, along with oesellinic acid, when erythric acid is boiled for some time with water. PICROTOXIN. Syn. Piceotoxine, Piceo- TOXIA, PiCEOTOXiNA. A poisonous principle discovered by Boullay in the fruit of Anamirta paniculata, or Cocculus Indicus. Prep. 1. Precipitate a decoction of cocculus Indicus with a solution of acetate of lead, gently evaporate to dryness, redissolve the residuum in alcohol of ’SIT, and crystallize by evapo- ration ; repeat the solution and crystallization a second and a third time. Any adhering colour may be removed by agitating it with a very little water ; or by animal charcoal, in the usual manner. 2. (Kane.) Alcoholic extract of cocculus Indicus is exhausted with the smallest possible quantity of water, and the mixed liquors fil- tered ; to the filtrate hydrochloric acid is added, and the whole set aside to crystallize. The may be purified as before.