1145 PRUSSIC ACID—PTYALIN. !) red oxide of mercury and some other oxides ihen boiled with it; it burns in the air like nder, leaving an ash of oxide of iron. It is ,)t poisonous. Pur., <^c. The quality of Prussian blue ay be estimated by the richness of its colour, I id by the quantity of potassa or soda required |t destroy this. If it effervesces with acids, I contains chalk; and if it forms a paste with liiling water, it is adulterated with starch. . is pure if, “ after being boiled with dilute jrdrochloric acid, ammonia throws down [Dthing from the filtered liquid.^’ (Ph. L. :^36.) It is distinguished from indigo by ihibiting a coppery tint when broken, but hich is removed by rubbing with the nail. Concluding remarks. The commercial Prus- |in blue is not pure feeroctanide of ,:0N, but a mixture of this salt with varying 'oportions of the feeeictanide of iron and JTASSIUM, which also has a fine deep blue 'lour. The object in employing alum is to •event or lessen the precipitation of oxide of on by the free alkali in the blood lye, but a irtion of alumina is in consequence thrown )wn with the blue, and tends to render it iler and increase the product. The quantity ’ alum employed may be varied according to le shades of the intended blue. Samples con- ining this contamination must not be em- oyed medicinally. (See page 793.) Soruble Prussian Blue. Prep. 1. (Basic RUSSIAN BLUE.) By adding a solution of Yotosulphate of iron to a solution of ferro- ^anide of potassium ; a bluish-white precipitate, |iming dark blue by free exposure, is formed, ihich, after it has acquired this colour, is ashed until it begins to dissolve in the water, lid colour it blue; it is then either collected |id dried, or is at once dissolved in pure water, his variety is not precipitated from its solu- on by alcohol. 2. (Feeroctanide of potassium and HON.) By precipitating a solution of a ses- \iisalt or persalt of iron (as the persulphate, |jrnitrate, peracetate, or sesquichloride) with 'stronger solution offerrocyanide of potassium, I) that the latter may be in considerable excess, blue precipitate is formed, which is treated I before. This variety is precipitated by al- )hol. Both are freely soluble in pure water, Jt not in water which has the slightest saline mtamination. Hence it is that lengthened cposure to the atmosphere, and the use of the nnmon steel pen, causes the gradual precipi- ition of this substance from its solution when lied as ink. See Writing Fluids. j PRU”SSIC ACID. See Hydrocyanic Acid. I PSEU'DO-MOR'PHINE. A substance of little juportance, occasionally found in opium. It jiffers from morphine chiefly in not decom- osing iodic acid. It is said to contain ni- •ogen. 1 PSORIASIS. Syn. Irregular dry tetter. rough, scaly eruption, sometimes continuous, |nd sometimes in patches of various sizes, but of an irregular figure, and, for the most part, accompanied by fissures of the skin. It is dis- tinguished from lepra, “ not only by the dis- tribution of the patches, but also by its ces- sation and recurrence at difierent periods of the year.^^ There are several varieties of this disease, as —PSORIASIS GUTTATA, P. DIFFUSA, P. GYRATA, P. INTETERATA, P. PALMARIA, P. LABIALIS, P. SCROTALIS, p. INFANTILIS, &c. In the moro aggravated form {inveteratd) the skin becomes red, deeply furrowed or wrinkled, and so stiff and rigid that the motion of the muscles and the joints is seriously impeded. The produc- tion and separation of the scales is also so remarkably rapid that a large quantity of them is found on the bed, and confined within the linen of the patient. The ‘baker’s itch* is psoriasis diffusa of the back of the hand, and certain portions of the fingers. Washerwomen are often troubled with a like aflection. The ‘ grocer’s itch ' differs from the preceding in being pustular at its commencement, or of a mingled cha- racter. The general treatment of this disease has been noticed under ‘ Scaly Eruptions ’ {page 575), and, for the most part, may resemble that for LEPROSY, and for the other dry tetters. A light and nutritious diet, with good ripe fruits, exercise in the open air, warm sea- bathing, and the internal use of the bicarbonate or citrate of potassa, combined with sulphur or with cinchona, generally prove useful. Decoction of bran, butter-milk, or lotions con- taining glycerin, may be employed to allay itching and irritation. When the disease is local (as baker’s itch, &c.), the application of the ointment of nitrate of mercury, diluted with 10 or 12 times its weight of lard, has been highly recommended. Among internal remedies, Donovan’s solution {liq. hydriod. arsen. et hydrarg.) is, probably, the most active and certain. PSOROPHTHAL'MIA. Syn. Ophthalmitis taesalis, L. An inflammation and ulceration of the eyelids, attended by considerable itching and irritation, and by a copious discharge of viscid and acrimonious matter. The ointment of nitrate of mercury or of the nitric oxide of mercury, largely diluted withyresA lard, is a very excellent application. A single drop of wine of opium, or th.e fumes of oil of turpentine, may also be applied nightly. See Ophthal- mia. PTISAN. Syn. Ptisana, L. A decoction made of pearl barley, liquorice, raisins, and other like vegetable matters, either alone or so slightly medicated as to be taken as a com- mon drink in fevers, catarrhs, &c. Those re- tained in English pharmacy have been already noticed. The French physicians often employ this form of medicine. The ‘ tisanes ’ of the P. Cod. are numerous. See Decoction, In- fusion, Julep, Tisane, &c. PTYALIN, A peculiar animal matter, analo- 1