108 ALKANET—ALLANTOINE. and of an interne blood-hue, and the powder agglutinates into lumps like resin, it is Sa- LICINE; if the colour is at first yellowish, changing to blood-red, and ultimately to crim- son and violet, it is Vekateia. b. If instead of the substance being ‘ red- dened ’ by strong sulphuric acid, no particular action ensues in the cold, it contains either Conia or Strychnia; if a small fragment of bichromate of potassa being now dropped in, produces a rich violet-colour, it is Steychnia ; if the original matter on being heated, or treated with ‘solution of potassa,’ evolves a penetrating, disagreeable odour, somewhat analogous to that from ‘ hemlock,’ or to a mix- ture of those from tobacco and mice, it is Conia. The presence of one or more of the alkaloids being shewn by any of the preceding methods, a portion of the original clear solution or powder, or of the precipitates ov filtrates above referred to, must be treated with their ‘ cha- racteristic tests,’ as given under the individual notices of these articles, so as to set at rest all doubt as to their identity. No single test must ever be relied on. The presence of Brucia, Morphia and Strychnia, may be determined in substances which after being mixed with the salts of these alkaloids have undergone the acetous, vinous, or putrefactive fermentation, as shown by Orfila, MM. Larocque and Thi- bierge, and many other eminent chemists and toxicologists, and confirmed, in numerous cases by our own experiments. Opium and Morphia may thus be readily detected in beer, wine, soup, and milk. When one of these articles is strongly reddened by the addition of a sesqui-salt of iron, the presence of meconic acid, and consequently of ‘ morphia ’ or * opium,’ may be reasonably suspected. Concluding Remarks. It is a singular fact that none of the organic bases found in plants have yet been formed artificially, although several analogous substances have been thus produced. Closely allied to the alkaloids there also exists an extensive series of neutral jmoxi- mate principles, which differ from those s\ib- stances chiefiy in the absence of basic properties, and in most of them being destitute of nitrogen. They are usually bitter, and, like the alkaloids, usually represent the active properties of the plants in which they are found; whilst some of them possess considerable medicinal energy. Of this kind are asparagine, elaterine, yentianine, picroioorine, salicine, 8^'c. These two classes of bodies, though actually distinct, are fre- quently confounded. See Alkali, Oeganic Bases, Poisons, Peoximate Peinciples, Vegetable Substances, Nomenclatuee, &c.; also the individual alkaloids under their respective heads. AL'KANET. Syn. Anchu'sa, L. ; Oeca- nette, Fr.; Oekanep, Ger.; Oe'chanet*, Dyee’s al'kanet, D. bu'gloss^. The anchu'sa tincWria (Willd.; lithosper'mum tincto"rium —Linn.), a deciduous herbaceous plant, with a perennial, dark blood-red root. Hab., Asia Minor, Greece, Hungary, Ac. It is also largely cultivated in the neighbourhood of Montpellier. The dried root (alkanet eoot; eadix an- chuSjE, e. a. tinctoei^:) is chiefly imported from the Levant. It contains a beautiful blood-red colour, which it freely gives out to oils, fats, wax, spirits, essences, and similar substances, by simply infusing it in them, and is consequently much employed to colour these articles. Wax tinged with it, and applied on warm marble, stains it of a rich flesh-colour, which sinks deep into the stone, and possesses considerable durability. Its spirituous tincture also imparts a deep red to marble. Prop., 8fc. The colouring matter of alkanet was regarded by Pelletier as a fatty acid (anchusic acid) ; but it has since been shown to be a species of resin (anchusine, pseudo- ALKANNiNE, p.-alkanium). According to Dr. John, good alkanet root contains per cent, of this substance. Anchusine melts at 140° Fahr.; is scarcely soluble in water, to which it only imparts a dirty red-colour, but is very soluble in alcohol, oils, and acetic acid. Alkalies turn it blue. It is found wholly in the root-bark. In selecting this article, the smaller roots should therefore be chosen, as they possess more bark than the larger ones, in proportion to their weight. Exposure to ammoniacal fumes, or even handling it much with the fingers, changes its red to a crimson or purplish hue. Uses, &c. It is much employed by druggists and perfumers to colour oils, lip-salves, plasters, pomatums, Ac.; by varnish-makers, to tinge their varnishes and lacquers; by statuaries, to stain marble; by dairy-farmers, to colour cheese; by wine-merchants and bottlers (in the form of tincture), to stain beforehand the corks of their port-wine bottles, in order to imitate the effects of age, and as ‘ colouring ’ and ‘ flavour- ing ’ for factitious port wine; and by dyers, and others. A species of crimson rouge w'as formerly prepared from it (hence its name). ALKAR'GEN. See Kakodylic Acid. ALKAR'SINE. See Kakodyle (Oxide of). ALKER'MES (-ker'-mez). In pharmacy, the name of a once celebrated cordial con- fection, of which kermes forms the basis. The other ingredients are said to be—Amber- gris, aloes-ivood, cinnamon, pippin-cider, rose- water, sugar or honey, musk, pearls, and leaf- gold.—“ Alkermes comforteth the inner parts, and the bezoar stone hath an especial virtue against all melancholy affections. See Kee- MES, Liqueues, &c. ALLANTOIC (-Ian'-*—Brande). Pertaining to, or produced by the allan'tois, one of the membranes which invest the foetus, in quad- rupeds. The liquor of that of the cow con- tains ALLANTOINE. Allantoic Acid. See Allantoine. ALLAN'TOINE (-to-in; -to'—Mayne). Syn. Allanto'ic acid*, Amniot'ic A.f, Am'nic A.f; Allantoi'na, L. a substance discovered ' Burton’s Ana f. of Mel an."