I 203 AQUAKIUM—AQUILA. I distilled from aromatics, and formerly re- puted to possess many virtues. I Aqua Re'giaf. [L.] Nitroliydrochloric I acid, originally so called, by the alchemists, ( from its power of dissolving gold, i Aqua Toffa'nia. [L.] See Aqijetta. ' Aqua Vi'tsDf. [L.] Literally, 'water of j life’; a name familiarly applied to the leading 1 native distilled spirit. Thus, it is whiskey in I Scotland, usquebaugh in Ireland, geneva in ! Holland, and eau de vie or brandy in France. I When the term is employed in England, I French brandy is understood to be referred to. 1 Dr. Ure wisely remarks, "It has been the I aqua mortis to myriads of the human race; I and will, probably, ere long, destroy all the native tribes of North America and Australia.” j See Alcohol, &c. I AQUA"RIUM (-kware'-). [L.] Syn. A'qha- I ET*, Eng. A tank, cistern, or other like ; vessel, usually of glass, and ornamental, for containing aquatic plants or animals, or both; in the latter case also called an AQrA-TiYA”- EIUM.—In horticulture, an artificial pond or : cistern, containing shelves or benches at differ- I ent distances from the surface, for rearing I aquatic plants.^ See Sea-watee, Vivaeihm, I &c. AQUATIC (-kv/at'-). Syn. Aq'hatile * I (ak'-wa-til); AquatTcus, Aqhat'ilis, L. ; j Aqhatique, Aqtjatile, Fr. Of or belonging I to water. In natural history, applied to plants I and animals which live or grow in water. ! Plants which grow in streams are termed EIVEE PLANTS; tliose in stagnant water, pond ' PLANTS; and those in the sea, maeine plants. 1 The horticulturist provides a separate aqua- I rium for each variety. (See above.) \ AQUATINT'A. [L.,Fr.] A'qtjatint, i Eng.; Acquatinta, It. A species of etching I on copper, producing an effect resembling a ! drawing in Indian ink. See Engeaving-, ‘ Etching, &c. t AQ'UEDUCT (ak'-we-). Syn. AQriEDHC'THS, , L.; Aquedtjc, Fr. A conduit for conveying i water from one place to another. The aqueducts of the Romans still remain i to astonish their posterity by their extent and ! magnificence. The supply of pure water, fur- ! nished by them daily, was immense. Accord- i ing to the enumeration of Frontinus, the nine I earlier aqueducts delivered every day 14,018 I quinaria. This coi’responds to 27,743,100 I cubic feet. We may, therefore, extend I the supply, when all the aqueducts were in ! action, to the enormous quantity of 50,000,000 i cubic feet of water per day. Reckoning the I population of ancient Rome at a million, which it probably never exceeded, this would fur- 1 The AQUABTUM and AquA-viVAMUM offer an endless [ source of rational in-door amusement; but to give direc- tions for tlieir ‘stocking’ and ‘management’ would exceed the space we could spare, as well as the object of this ' volume. Many useful little works have been published on I the subject; among which none will prove more satisfac- i tory to the reader than the “ Book of the Aquarihm,” by ' Shirley Hibberd. nish no less than 50 cubic feet ^ of water for the daily consumption of each inhabitant.^ This would average the enormous volume of about 300 cubic feet"* per family a day—a quantity absolutely astounding when compared with the miserable supply of liquid putrefac- tion, or (when Clark’s patent 'purifying [?] process ’ is employed) of solution of lime, eked out to the people of England, at high rents, by our water-companies. See Watee, Hy- giene, &c. A'QUEOUS (-kwe-). -S^n. Aqhose'* ; A'quehs, Aquo'shs, L. ; Aqhehx, Fr.; Wasseeig, Wasseehaltig, Ger. Watery; made with, containing, or resembling water. In chemistry and pharmacy, applied to solutions, extracts, &c., prepared with water. Aqueous Hu'mour. In anatomy, the colour- less, transparent watery liquid which fills the chamber of the eye between the cornea and crystalline lens. Its use appears to be to preserve the convexity of the cornea, and to support the iris and facilitate its movements. See Eye & Vision. AQUET'TA. [It.,' little water.Syn. A'qha Toeea'na, a. Toffa'nia, L.; Aqhetta di Napoli, Acqha della Toffana, It. A cele- brated poison prepared by an Italian woman named Toffano or Tophano, and employed by the Romans about the middle of the 17th century. It was dispensed in small flat phials, labelled " Manna of St. Nicholas Bari,'* and ornamented with -a figure of the saint. From 4 to 6 drops were a fatal dose; but the effect was not sudden, and therefore not suspected. The victims were generally the husbands of gay, luxurious, and revengeful Italian ladies; but it was frequently employed by other parties. Toffano, who was executed a.d. 1709, confessed that upwards of 600 persons had been thus destroyed. The composition of this poison has been a matter of frequent contro- versy. Pope Alexander VII., in his procla- mation, described it as " aquafortis distilled into arsenic.” This would produce a concen- trated solution of arsenic acid. The emperor Charles VI., who was governor of Naples during Toffano’s trial, declared to his phy- sician Garelli, that it was arsenic (' arsenious acid’) dissolved in aqua cymbalaria. Accord- ing to Gerarde, this cymbalaria was an aquatic species of pennywort, highly poisonous. The only objection to the latter statement is the smallness of the dose, regard being had to the comparative insolubility of arsenious acid; but if the woman Toffana prepared two poisons, as is probable from history—one, a single dose of which was fatal; and another, of which the dose required repetition, and which was more gradual in its action,—the dis- crepance will be at once removed. See Ae- SENic and Aeseniohs Acids. AQ'UILA (ak'-wil-a). [L.] The eagle; a 2 Or upwards of 300 imperial gallons. ® Leslie, “ Elem. Nat. Phil." * Or upwards of 1850 gallons.