! 741 HYDROCYANIC ACID. ■j Uses, S(e. Medicinal hydrocyanic acid has I been administered with apparent advantage in - chronic coughs, phthisis, spasmodic asthma, hooping cough, hysteria, the vomiting in cho- , lera and pregnancy, the diarrhoea frequently I accompanying pulmonary consumption, &c. It I lias also been successfully employed as an ano- dyne in numerous painful affections, as cancer, I neuralgia, rheumatism, &c. Also externally, \ in prurigo and some other skin affections. ! In gastrodynia and those nameless stomach, j nervous, and hysterical affections, in both sexes, arising chiefly from excessive irritability I or excitement, over-anxiety, study, &c., in. I which there appears no well-defined organic i ailment, small doses of hydrocyanic acid or i the alkaline cyanides are invaluable, and never ! fail to afford considerable relief, if they do not altogether remove the disease. In some cases the eflhcts appear almost magical. A life of absolute wretchedness—sleepless nights, days of intolerable excitement and irritability—is often changed in a few hours to one of quiet and susceptibility of enjoyment. Bose. Of the Ph. L., 1 to 6 drops, 3 or 4 times a day, made into a mixture with water flavoured with gum or syrup. Externally, as a lotion, 1 fl. dr. of the dilute acid (Ph. L.) to 3 or 4 fl. oz. of dis- tilled water. A weak lotion of prussic acid, employed both before and after shaving, is very soothing to an irritable face. (Dr. Elliotson.) Pois., ^c. The usual symptoms after swal- lowing prussic acid in poisonoits doses, are—a I bitter, hot taste, faintness, giddiness, unsteady gait, difficult respiration, salivation, tetanic convulsions, and insensibility; the latter con- tinues, followed by profound coma, great mus- cular relaxation, complete loss of the power of I motion, convulsive respiration, severe tetanic I spasms, and death. The pupils are generally dilated, but sometimes contracted. When the quantity taken has been very large, tu- multuous palpitation, followed by a few hur- I ried inspirations, and convulsive plunges, an j almost imperceptible pulse, insensibility, and profound coma, are the only symptoms that usually precede death. Sometimes convulsions I do not occur. When recovery takes place, it is ! usually very rapid, and in most cases occurs within half an hour after the poison has been taken. In most cases death occurs in about 15 to 20 minutes, but sometimes not for nearly j half an hour. Of 7 epileptic patients killed by I hydrocyanic acid in one of the hospitals in j Paris, some did not die in less than f of an I hour. The most characteristic post-mortem I appearances are extreme glistening brightness, ; and staring expression of the eyes; and the j venous system is usually gorged with blood, ! whilst the arteries are empty. The odour of I the poison is also generally perceptible. The I largest quantity of prussic acid ever swallowed, ' as far as our knowledge extends, was that of a i thirsty carman, who seized a half-gallon jug I containing it, which was standing on the laboratory counter, and swallowed between 6 and 7 ounces of it at a gulp, in mistake for cold water. Ant., S^c.—1. Chlorine water, or solution of chloride of lime or of soda, in doses of 2 or 3 spoonfuls diluted with water, frequently; also applied externally.—2.*Inspirations slightly impregnated with the condensed chloro-vinegar of M. Mialhe. This is prepared by spreading a thin layer of dry chloride of lime upon a towel, folding this into the form of a cravat, and moistening it with vinegar, which disengages the chlorine by degrees, and allows it to he inspired through the mouth and nostrils.— 3. Small quantities of ammonia water diluted with 10 or 12 parts of water; also the fumes inhaled. A case is reported of a gentleman wdio swallowed 2 dr. of the acid (Ph. D.), and in whom insensibility and convulsions had set in, who was cured by this treatment.—4. The joint administration of carbonate of potassa and salts of iron. This has been lately very strongly recommended. Messrs. Smith, of Edinburgh, have given the following formula for this antidoteDissolve in a phial carbonate of potassa (salt of tartar), 20 gr., in water, 1 or 2 fl. oz.; then dissolve quickly in a mortar sulphate of protoxide of iron, 10 gr., in water, 1 fl. oz., and add tincture of sesquichloride of iron, 1 fl. dr,, and put in another phial. The person who has taken the poison is given first the potassa solution, and immediately after, that of the salts of iron. The efficacy of this antidote depends on the iron converting the acid into comparatively inert ‘ Prussian blue,’ —5. Cold affusion should be adopted in all cases, and is almost of itself a certain cure, if employed before the convulsive stage is over; and it is often successful even during the stage of insensibility and paralysis. (Herbst.) In all cases where an emetic can be got down, it should be administered as early as possible, and vomiting promoted by tickling the fauces with the finger or a feather. At a later period a purgative clyster may be admi- nistered. Artificial respiration should also he attempted. Unfortunately, the poisonous ac- tion of prussic acid is so rapid, that life is usually extinct before assistance arrives and antidotes can be applied. Concluding remarks. Hydrocyanic acid, even when dilute, is very liable to spontaneous decomposition, and this occurs the more speedily under the influence of light and warmth. To promote its preservation, it is usual to sur- round the bottles containing it with thick paper (purple on both sides), and to keep them inverted in an obscure situation. The addi- tion of a very small quantity of hydrochloric acid renders it much less liable to change, and is now generally made by manufacturers for that purpose; hut in testing the strength of such acid by nitrate of silver, it is necessary to deduct the w^eight of the chloride of silver from that of the mixed precipitate. (See above.) The acid prepared by decomposing