784 INTOXICATION—IODINE. liusliings and becomes warmer and warmer, and ultimately the whole surface is of a dry burning heat; intense thirst, restlessness, severe headache, and sometimes delirium, cha- racterise this second or hot stage. After this stage has continued for some time, another change comes over the patient; moisture ap- pears on the face and forehead, the harsh and hot skin becomes soft, and at last a copious sweat breaks out over the whole surface. This is the third or sweating stage, and after it has passed, the several functions of the system I return to their ordinary condition. The paroxysm may return daily (quotidian ague) ; or every other day (tertian a.); or every fourth day, including that of the first attack (quartan a.). Treatm. During the cold stage everything should be done to bring on the hot; the patient should be placed in a warm bed, with warm pans or bottles of water; he may be allowed the free use of warm diluent drinks. In the hot stage the opposite course should be adopted; the coverings must be diminished, and lemon- ade or other cooling drink administered. In the sweating stage there is no occasion for any treatment beyond care to avoid checking the perspiration by premature exposure. During the intermission the disease must be fought with the tonics, Peruvian hark, or its chief alkaloid, quinine. The most effective form of this remedy is the sulphate, which may be given in doses of from 2 to 4 gr. every three hours, the dose being greater for a ‘ quartan’ than for a ‘ quotidian.’ See Ague-cake, Fever, &c. INTOXICA'TION. See Intemperance. IN'ULIN. Syn. Inuline, Alantine, Dah- LINE. A peculiar starch-like substance, first obtained by Eose from the root of Inida He- lenium or elecampane. It has been found in several other vegetables. Prep. From the rasped root, by the same method that is adopted for arrow-root or potato farina; or by boiling the sliced root in 7 or 8 times its weight of water, and after filtration, whilst hot, allowing the decoction to repose for a short time. Prop., Sfc. Only very slightly soluble in cold water ; very soluble in boiling water, but is nearly all deposited as the solution cools; it is precipitated by alcohol. Inulin is distinguished from starch by giving a yellow or yellowish-brown colour with io- dine ; in the decoction not being precipitated by either acetate of lead or infusion of galls; and by the precipitate formed in the cold decoction by an infusion of gall-nuts not dis- a])pearing until the liquid is heated to above 212°, while the precipitate from starch redis- solves at 122° Fahr. It appears to be a substance intermediate between starch and gum. I'ODATE. Syn. Iodas, L. A salt of iodic acid. The iodates closely resemble the chlo- rates of the corresponding bases. They are recognised by the development of free iodine when their solutions are treated with reducing agents; thus, sulphuretted hydrogen passed into a solution of iodate of potassa reduces this salt to an ‘ iodide,’ iodine being liberated, and sulphuric acid and water formed. They deflagrate like the chlorates when heated with combustibles. They are all of sparing solubility, and many are quite insoluble in water. They may be made by adding iodine to soluble hy- drates or carbonates, and crystalhzing the sparingly soluble iodate from the very soluble iodide. See Iodic Acid, Iodine, and Potassa. lODHY'DEIC ACID. See Hydriodic Acid. IODIC ACID. Syn. Acidum iodicum, L. An acid compound of iodine and oxygen dis- covered by Gay-Lussac and Davy. Prep. 1. Iodate of soda is dissolved in sulphuric acid in considerable excess, the solu- tion boiled for 15 minutes, and then set aside to crystallize. 2. Decompose iodate of baryta by dilute sulphuric acid. 3. (Boursen.) Iodine, 1 part; nitric acid (sp. gr. 1-5), 40 parts; mix, keep them at nearly the boiling temperature for several hours, or until the iodine is dissolved, then evaporate to dryness, and leave the residuum in the open air at a temperature of about 59° Fahr.; when, by attracting moisture, it has acquired the consistence of a syrup, put it into a place where the temperature is higher and the air drier, when in a few days very fine white crystals of a rhomboidal shape will form. Prop., &(c. Iodic acid is a crystalline solid, white or yellowish-white; it is decomposed into oxygen and iodine by a heat of about 450° to 500° Fahr., a property of which we avail ourselves for the conversion of the salts of this acid (lODATEs) into iodides. It is very soluble in water, and is rapidly decomposed when heated with inflammable bodies. Iodic acid is tised as a test for morphia and sulphur- ous acid. It has been employed as a tonic, stimulant, and alterative, in catarrhal hoarse- ness, strumous cases, incipient phthisis, &c. Dose. 3 to 6 gr. Test. When iodic acid is mixed with an equal quantity of an alkaloid (preferably qui- nine), on a capsule or watch-glass, and a drop or two of water added, several distinct explo- sions occur, accompanied by the copious evo- lution of gas. No other substance exhibits a similar reaction. See Iodate. I'ODIDE. Syn. Ioduret*, Hydriodate* ; lODIDUM, lODURETUM, HydRIODAS, L. A compound of iodine with a metal or compound radicle. The iodides belong to the same class of bodies as the bromides and chlorides, and may be, for the most part, made in the same manner. All the principal iodides are noticed under the names of their resjiective bases. See Iodine, &c. I'ODINE. Syn. Iodinium (Ph. L. & D.), lODiNEUM (Ph. E.), L.; loDE, Fr.; loD, Ger.