226 AKSENIOUS ACID. Under all circumstances arsenious acid is, undoubtedly, one of the most powerful of the mineral poisons; and in whatever form or way it is introduced into the system, it exerts the same deleterious influence. In all cases, in sufficient doses, its action is to increase the secretions, diminish the contractility of the voluntary muscles, and to produce convulsions, prostration, and death. Arsenic is a non-accumulative, irritant poi- son, and exerts no decided chemical or cor- rosive action on the tissues. (Taylor.) Pois., 8fc.—Symp. These sometimes begin to appear within half-an-hour after the poison has heen taken, or even sooner; hut much more generally, not until after the lapse of some hours. They usually commence with nausea and distress at the stomach, followed by thirst, often intense, and a sense of burning heat in the bowels; then come on constriction of the oesophagus, violent vomiting, severe colic pains, tenesmus, and excessive and pain- ful purging, the stools being occasionally bloody; hut pain, vomiting, &c., do not invariably incur. The pulse is generally quick, small, feeble, and irregular—sometimes scarcely perceptible, and the heart’s action is irregular and tumultuous. The tongue is dry and furred; the respiration difficult and panting; the urino-genital apparatus is often affected; there is pain and difficult micturi- tion, and sometimes entire suppression of urine; faintings, coldness of the limbs, and cold sweats, with other signs of debility inter- vene. Itching and eczematoxis eruptions of the skin, trembling, painful cramps and con- tractions of the extremities, and violent con- vulsions often follow; and after these, a greater or less prostration of strength, which induces a deceitful calm. At length the heart’s action abates, the skin becomes suf- fused with a cold clammy sweat, and the suf- ferer dies from exhaustion. The progress, succession, and precise character of the symp- toms are modified by the idiosyncracy of the individual, the quantity of the poison, and the manner in which it has been taken; and are seldom all present in the same person. Treatm. If vomiting has commenced it should be promoted by tickling the throat, and ad- ministering a large quantity of gelatinous hy- drated peroxide of iron, or other appropriate antidote (see below), in divided doses, mixed with a large quantity of warm or tepid water, strongly sweetened with sugar. If vomiting has not commenced, which is rare, it must be excited by administering 15 to 20 gr. of sul- phate of zinc, or ipecacuanha, (or in the ab- sence of these, a teaspoonful of flower of mus- tard) in a tumbler of tepid water, and tick- ling the throat as before. If these means fail in rapidly inducing copious vomiting, the dose must be repeated, or the stomach-pump had recourse to. Altogether as much as 16 to 18 oz. v.rj(le m Powers of zinc, only sliglitly, if at all, coutaiuinatcd willi arsenious acid. See Gen. Comm, (helow). of the hydrated peroxide of iron, may be administered. If the poison has been swal lowed several hours previously, and hence ma\ have passed the pylorus, a strong dose o castor-oil, or a purgative clyster may be ad ministered, and, after its action,another clysiej^ containing the antidote. As soon as tin, stomach and bowels are cleared, diuretics an< sudoriflcs should be given in abundance. Lastly, any remaining irritation must bi, relieved by demulcent and soothing remedies or if urgent, by slight general or local bleeding which cannot be earlier practised withou* danger; and opium, camphor, and ether fol lowed by tonics, may be had recourse to, t< recruit the system. Lesions. Redness and inflammation of th< whole primae vise; and sometimes, of th( mouth, fauces, and oesophagus, but nion usually, the contrary. Sometimes also, thougl seldom, there is no marked appearance of in flammation in the stomach and intestine? The stomach is usually highly injected, ant frequently marked with extravasations; lung? gorged with blood; mucous lining of trachea reddened; heart generally flabby, and exhibit ing deep-red or blackish stains, and the righ cavities more or less loaded with blood; th conjunctiva is sometimes very vascular; an< redness, extravasation of blood, and effusion o serum, is occasionally seen in the brain. Th blood is frequently, though not invariably fluid after death, and dark-coloured. Unde certain circumstances, the mucous membran of the stomach and intestines is lined with multitude of brilliant points or grains, whicl have been mistaken for arsenious acid; hn which, according to Orfila, are composed of fa and albumen. Placed on burning coals, they de crepitate on drying, and produce a species c explosion or detonation. These grains are als met with in the stomach of persons who hav not been poisoned. Digested in water, th liquid obtained from them does not show th presence of arsenic when submitted to rt agents. Ant. In the order of their assumed eff ciency:—1. Hydrated or gelatinous sesquioxia \ or peroxide of iron (for an adult—a tahk i spoonful, in water, every 8 or 10 minute I until 12 or 16 oz., or more, have been taken) —2. Hydrated persulphuret of iron (as th last) :—3. Hydrated protosulphuret of iron (» ( the last) ;—4. Gelatinous hydrate of magnesi' \ (as the last) :—5. A mixture of No. 1 an No. 4; regarded by many authorities as mor i effective than either of them separately:—t i A mixture of No. 2 or 3 and No. 4 (as th last):—7. Calcined magnesia (taken as No. 1) —8. Salad or olive oil, or almond oil, and oi or fats generally (ad libitum; are all highl effective in lessening, if not destroying th ^ White wine and nitrate of polassa diluted "i SeidUtz-water or soda-tenter, or a little oil of jvniper ^ solved in or diffused through milk-and-water, or very wei (jin-and-ioater, are appropriate.