ASPHALTUM—ASPHYXIA. 235 ASPHAirUM. [L., prim. Gr.] Syn. As- PHALT', Jew’s pitch, Foss'il bitu'men, Vit'- EEUS B., &c.; Asphal'ths, Bitij'men pos'sile (-e-le), B. Juda'icum, B. Sol'idum, B. vit'- eeum, Mu'MiAf, M. mineea'lis*, &c., L.; ! Asphalte, Bitume massif, B. solide, Poix ' JUiVE, &c., Fr. j Asphalt, Eedpech, Juden- : PECH, &c., Ger. A black, hard, brittle, and glossy variety of bitumen found on the shores of the Dead Sea (hence called La'cus Asphal- \ ti'tes), on and near the shores of the Great ' Pitch Lake, of Trinidad, and as a mineral product in various other parts of the world. Prop., ^c. Melts without decomposition, I and, when pure, burns without residue. It is j distinguished from other varieties of bitumen ' by its more difficult fusibility, and by its fracture being clean, conchoidal, and vitreous. I Distilled by itself it yields about 36§ of a I peculiar bituminous oil {crude peteolene), I together with combustible gases, traces of am- monia, and water. To anhydrous alcohol it yields 5g of a yellow eesin soluble in recti- i lied spirit and ether; by digesting the re- I siduum in ether, a further 70^ of a beownish- BLACK eesin is obtained, which is freely soluble in the volatile oils and in about 5 times its weight of mineral naphtha. The portion I (25^) left undissolved by ether, is very soluble j in the oils of turpentine and petroleum. I These three resinous principles dissolve alto- I gether, when digested, in the oils of anise, i rosemary, and turpentine, and in the fixed oils. , (John.) According to others, asphaltum con- I sists almost entirely of asphaltene. (Bous- singault.) Paranaphthaline has been found in some varieties. (M. Laurent.) Average sp. gr., 1*2; lowest V; highest 1’3. By friction it affords negative electricity. It is soluble in oil of turpentine, benzole, mineral and coal- tar naphtha, the fixed oils, solutions of the caustic alkalies, and several other liquids, by ' the aid of heat. ' Sources. That of commerce is chiefly ob- ' tained from the shores of the Dead Sea; but much of that of the ‘shops’ is a spurious article of the most worthless character. A i short time since some specimens of the purest I and most beautiful description, from the great ! Bitumen Lake of Trinidad, were given us by i our respected and venerable friend, the late ; Earl of Dundonald, who stated, that the supply of both liquid and indurated bitumens, of every grade of quality, was unlimited from I that source; but that owing to injudicious importations of inferior kinds, (those most easily shipped,) a prejudice had been created : against them in the London market. Our I personal investigations have since confirmed i the accuracy of these statements. Uses. The finer varieties are chiefly used as ' a ‘ glazing colour ’ by artists, and in the manu- facture of black varnishes and japans. The I inferior kinds are applied to the same purposes j as ordinary solid bitumen. The Egyptians ! used it in embalming under the name of mu'mia ; and the Babylonian builders are said to have employed it, as a cement, in lieu of mortar. It is, however, doubtful whether the hard semi-vitreous variety of bitumen, properly termed ‘ asphaltum,’ was that which was thus employed; its present hardness being probably due to time. As a medicine, it is stimulant; and it was formerly used as an ingredient in certain plasters and ointments. See Bitumen, Pitch, &c. Facti"tious Asphaltum (-tish-’iis). Syn. As- phal'tum facti"tium, L. That of the shops, when not an inferior kind of true asphaltum, is commonly made from the bottoms of Bar. bados tar, and other mineral bitumens, by heating them until quite hard. Sometimes a little Scio turpentine, balsam of copaiba, or even common rosin, is added. Colour, hard- ness, &c., inferior to those of native asphaltum. Liq'uid Asphaltum. Syn. Peepaeed' as- phaltum ; Asphal'tum liq'uidum, L. Prep. 1. Scio turpentine, 2 oz.; melt; add asphaltum (in powder), 1 oz.; mix, cool a little, and reduce with hot oil of turpentine. 2. (Wilson’s.) Asphaltum, \ lb.; melt; add of hot balsam of copaiba, 1 lb.; and, when mixed, thin it with hot oil of turpentine. Both are used as‘black japan’ or ‘ varnish,’ and as a ‘ glazing colour ’ by artists. ASPHYXIA (-fik'-sh’a; -fiks'-e-aj). [L., Gr.] Syn. Asphtx't X {-^), Eng.; Asphtxie, Fr.; PULSLOSIGKEIT, SCHEINTOD, Ger. Liter- ally, absence of pulse; hence, a fainting fit; apparent lifelessness. In pathology, suspended animation; a condition in which the motion of the heart and arteries cannot be felt, and both sensation and consciousness are suspended. Its use is now generally confined to a sus- pension of vitality from some cause interrupting respiration, but in which life is not actually extinct, and may, under favourable circum- stances, be revived. Asphyxia is commonly divided into four varieties by nosologists :— 1. Asphyxia al'gida:—Cause. Exposure to intense cold.—Symp. Countenance pale, livid, and shrivelled; limbs rigid. 2. Asphyxia elec'teica :—Cause. Stroke of lightning or electricity.—Symp. Counte- nance pale, limbs flexible, blood incoagulable. 3. Asphyxia mephit'ica:—Cause. Inha- lation of irrespirable gases or fumes.—Symp. Countenance pallid, lips wan, &c. 4. Asphyxia suffocatio'nis :—Cause. Suf- focation or strangulation, as from drowning, hanging, &c.—Symp, Countenance turgid and livid. Treatm., SfC. No general rules can be given exactly suitable to each variety. Whenever it is possible to procure medical aid, it should, of course, be immediately sought; as the delay of even a single minute may render it unavailing. In the treatment of suspended animation the principal object is to effect a restoration of the respiratory and circu- latory functions; the former of which has