49 AFFUSION—AFTER-HOURS. Obs. In solutions of the metallic oxides in the given acids, those oxides below any given one in the Table are separated by it from those above it when the solution and the oxide chosen to effect the separation are boiled to- gether. Thus, oxide of copper separates oxide of iron from the ‘ protoxide of manganese,’ and the oxides of nickel and zinc from those of * chromium’ and ‘ uranium.’ III. Table of the Sequences of the Bases with the principal Acids. By Dr. Young. Si'S rs ‘u I g i s a 'boSSrtScS’oS O O .3 P^C/ipq73<1|^,^C5<JCS3 ^ £s .a ca m 2 a-2 io'o+3 « Ph eg M ^ O <5 N ^ a .2'3’” «« -Soi^a.Sfl '•s § a g/o a 8 a i o'Bis a|^^.b.| iSC5<|!Si;4 «p-,c2c«<i: i ■:? «s O B bcy j-a P5 P-( M S O <; tsi i-P P o capHcc <lcc a 2|||. a fdl Z 3.5 B a g 05 B U “ .-2 s s a t -2 •5 'll Pk o 3 ■1 s ®" 1 g.2 c w Magnesii Ammoni; Glucina Alumina Zirconia (Copper! o h) . b o o Ft! P rt 05 -■ Q S3 '3 w 2 «5 I B B 'C — P, S ' ' cj ^ H W »h’s'3 2 b-3 riiisiisgllii'P^ ^ § • rB 0.2 bo'*- a Obs. In all mixtures of the aqueous solutions of two salts, each acid remains united to the base which stands nearest to it in the above Table. See Attraction, Combination, De- composition, Katalysis, &c. (also below.) Com'pound Affinity. In chemistry, a term applied to the attractive force by which three or more substances unite to form one homo- geneous body ; as in the case of ammonio-phos- phate of magnesia, and some other double salts. Dispo''sing Affinity (-poze'-). See Aeeinity (ante). Double Affinity, or double elective attraction, applied to the mutual decomposition of two substances, producing two new compound bodies. Sim'ple Affinity, or single elective attraction, is that by which two bodies enter into chemical union, or a body of two component parts is de- composed by a third, which unites with one of them; as when we add an acid to an alkaline carbonate. AFFU'SION (-zhiin). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Af- Fusio, L. In chemistry, the pouring of water, or some other liquid, repeatedly on a substance, to cleanse it. Affusion. In medicine, the pouring of a liquid, as water (simple or medicated), upon a diseased body. The affusion of cold water has been successfully employed in the treatment of the early symptoms of low contagious fever, during the state of the greatest heat and ex- acerbation, even when the heat of the body reached 102° to 105° Fahr., and general restlessness increasing to delirium was present. Sponging the body may be adopted instead of affusion. The water may be medicated by the addition of a little vinegar, and employed tepid, if preferred. A shower bath is of a similar character, applicable during either health or disease. In certain stages of scarlatina and LOW TYPHUS, and in inflammation of the brain, affusions have been found particularly serviceable. They should not be employed during either the cold or the sweating stage of fever, nor in the hot stage when the heat does not much exceed the natural standard. The affusion should be continued until the patient feels cold and shivers, when the skin should be well dried, and the recumbent posture again resumed. A little warm wine- and-water may be administered to aid reaction and the consequent perspiration. Evening is the best time for the operation. See Ab- lution, Baths, &c. AFT'ER-DAMP. The choke-damp of the miner. AFT'ER-HOURS. Ajudicioususe of the hours which intervene between the cessation of the business occupations of the day, and the period of retiring 'to rest, is a matter of the utmost importance in several points of view. In refer- ence to health, fresh air and a certain amount of out-door exercise and recreation are abso- lutely necessary to maintain the body in a state of vigour, and to ward oft' the attacks of disease. So in reference to mental cultivation it must be recollected how much may be done if only a single hour daily be devoted to any particular study or pursuit, or to the general acquirement of useful knowledge; whilst our ‘ after-hours’ may give us time, even though it be for only a short period, to cultivate that 4