I I i ! ETHER. 597 Prep. (M. Millon.) Nitric acid (sp. gr. about |L*375), 50 parts; nitrate of urea, a little (say ;3 or 3 parts); dissolve, add alcohol, 50 parts, iind distil with the usual precautions, until |7-8ths of the whole (of the liquid portion) have ipassed over; agitate the distillate with a little \mter to separate the ether, and preserve the Heavier portion. I Prop., 8fc. Nitric ether possesses an agree- lible sweetish taste and odour; it is insoluble j n water; the alcoholic (but not the aqueous) Solution of potassa decomposes it rapidly ; sp. >r. 1-112. Its vapour is very apt to ex- plode when strongly heated, and, therefore, a nnall quantity only should be prepared at a time. ' Ni'trous Ether. Syn. Hyponitrous ether, INTiteite of ethee. Nitrite of oxide of (ethyl, Hyponiteite of e.; ^ther niteo- 3US, HYPONITEOSDS, L. This compound, (if which ‘SWEET SPIRIT OF NITRE^ is an im- (pure alcoholic solution, was first mentioned by iKunckel in 1681. Chemists differ in opinion IS to its precise composition; some of them regarding it as nitrite of oride of ethyl, and ithers as the hyponitrite of that base. The inalysis of Dumas and Boullay appears to jstablish the latter opinion, according to vhich its most correct name is hyponitrous dher. Prep. 1. (Liebig.) Starch (potato farina), L part; nitric acid (sp. gr. 1-30), 10 parts; nix in a capacious retort, connected with a vide tube 2 or 3 feet long, bent at right ingles, and terminating near the bottom of a bwo-necked bottle, containing a mixture of ilcohol (of 85g), 2 parts, and water, 1 part, ind surrounded with a freezing mixture, pounded ice, or very cold water; the other heck of the bottle being connected by a long [glass tube with a good refrigerator or con- denser. All elevation of temperature must be 'avoided. The heat of a water bath only must |be cautiously applied to the retort. Pure hy- ponitrous acid will be thus set free, and passing jiiito the alcohol will cause the hyponitrite of ^oxide of ethyl to distil in a gentle stream. The tube connecting the retort and bottle (must be cooled by means of ray or moist paper, tkept wetted with ice-cold water; as, if the temperature of the tube and the alcohol rises only a little, the latter becomes spontaneously hot, and boils violently, by which the product is vitiated. This process is very productive. and economical, and yields pure hyponitrous ether. I 2. (M. Pedroni.) A mixture of oil of vitriol, |8 parts, and alcohol, 9 parts, is poured upon ^crystallized nitrate of ammonia, 11 parts, con- tained in any suitable distillatory vessel con- nected with a well-cooled receiver. Hypo- nitrous ether gradually distils over on the application of a gentle heat. An admirable process, but more expensive than the pre- ceding. Even a common fire may be employed without danger, as the liberation of the ether proceeds gradually, and not almost instan- taneously, as in operating in the usual way. Sulphate of ammonia is left in the retort. The product is scarcely inferior to that of the last formula. 3. (Ph. E.) Rectified spirit, 46 fl. oz.; pure nitric acid (sp. gr. 1-500), 7 fl. oz.; put 15 fl. oz. of the spirit, with a little clean sand, into a quart matrass, fitted with a cork, and a safety tube reaching to within an inch of the spirit, and a second tube leading to a refri- geratory. Fill the safety tube with pure nitric acid, then add through it, gradually and cautiously, 3J fl. oz. of the acid. When the violent action that ensues is nearly over, gradually add the remaining portion of the acid, i fl. oz. at a time, and at intervals. Agitate the ether that distils o\ev, first with a little milk of lime, till it ceases to redden lit- mus paper, and then with half its volume of concentrated solution of chloride of calcium. “The pure hyponitrous ether thus obtained should have a density of -899.” 4. (Ph. D. 1826.) A mixture of sulphuric acid, 1 lb., and rectified spirit of wine, 19 fl. oz., is poured very gradually on nitre (dried and powdered), 1| lb., placed in a tubulated retort, and connected with a well-cooled receiver, by means of a tube and bottle, containing rec- tified spirit, 1 lb. (to wash the ether in its pas- sage to the receiver), adopting the usual pre- cautions ; the product is shaken -with about 1 dr. of dried and finely powdered carbonate of potassa, and the ether is decanted after a time. The last two contain aldehyde and alcohol. 5. (Turner.) Alcohol, of 85§, 9 parts; water, 4 parts; strong fuming nitric acid, 8 parts; introduce the spirit into a strong cylindrical glass vessel, 3 times as high as wide, capable of holding ^th more than the liquid to be placed in it, by means of a funnel tube reach- ing to the bottom, and having a small orifice; add the water, cautiously, so that it may form a stratum beneath the alcohol, without mixing with it; in like manner add the acid, taking great care that the three strata do not mix; stop up the vessel, and allow it to repose at a temperature under 53° Pahr., for 2 or 3 days, when the stratum of ether which has formed must be collected and purified by rectification, &c., as before. 6. Rectified spirit, 3 parts; nitric acid (sp. gr. 1'28), 2 parts; mix, and distil, w'ith the usual precautions, withdrawing the heat as soon as the liquid boils. Contains both alde- hyde and alcohol. Prop., cf-c. Pure nitrous ether has a pale- yellow colour, an agreeable odour of apples, and boils at 62° Fahr.; sp. gr. -917 at 60° Fahr. Commercial nitrous ether contains aldehyde, boils at 70° Fahr., has a more or less suffocating odour combined with that of the pure ether, has a sp. gr. of -886 at 40° Fahr., and turns brown when mixed with alcoholic solution of potassa, while the latter remains