591 ETHER. i 1 lution of chlorate of potassa, 1 part, in water, j50 parts. I e. A solution of common salt. Used in the [process oi electro-etching. I Etching Ground. Syn. Etching vaenisii. iPrep. 1. Bees' wax, 5 parts; linseed oil, 1 part; (melted together. ' 2. (Callot’s Haed vaenish, Floeentine t., [Floeence V.) From linseed oil and mastic, (equal parts, melted together, f 3. (Callot’s SoET VAENISH.) From linseed \oil, 4 oz. / gum benzoin and white wax, of each, ■ i oz.; boil to two thirds. I 4. (Lawrence.) White wax, 2 oz.; black 'pitch Burguridy pitch, oi each, ^ oz.; melt, [add by degrees, of powdered asphaltum, 2 oz.; and boil together, until a piece, when tho- roughly cold, will break by being bent double |2 or 3 times between the fingers; next pour jit into %carm water, make it into small balls, 'and place each of them in a piece of taffety (for use. Ohs. The preceding compositions are ap- plied to the surface of the plates, previously made sufficiently warm to melt them easily, their even diffusion being promoted by dab- bing them with a wad of cotton. Those that are white are then generally blackened on the surface by skilfully passing them over the smoky llame of one or more candles, by which the marks of the etching point on the bright metal are rendered the more visible. E'THER. Syn. Sulphueic ethee. Oxide OF ETHYL; tEtHEE (Ph. L.), iETHEE SUL- PHUEicus (Ph. E. D. &U. S.), JE. eectifi- CATUS, iE.VITEIOLICUS, zE. SPIEITHS VITEIOLI DULCis, L. A colourless, highly volatile, fragrant, inflammable liquid, obtained by distilling a mixture of sulphuric acid and alcohol. It was not known before the 13th century. Prep. There are two methods employed for the preparation of ether. The one is by mixing the whole of the ingredients at once, and immediately subjecting them to distillation at a proper temperature; the other is by adding the alcohol in a slender streamlet to the acid, previously heated to the etherifying point. The former, though less economical, is the one more generally employed. "Ether is also formed by the decomposition of the bisulphate, biphosphale, and biarseniate of oxide of ethyl (sulphovinic, phosphovinic, and arsenovinic acids), and by the action oi fluoride of boron, chloride of zinc, chloride of tin, and other chlo- rides on alcohol." (Liebig.) 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Rectifled spirit, 3 1b.; sulphuric acid, 21b.; carbonate of potassa (pre- viously ignited), 1 oz.; pour 2 lb. of the spirit into a glass retort, add the acid, and place the vessel on a sand bath, so that the liquor may boil as quickly as possible, and the ether, as it forms, pass over into a well-cooled receiver; (continue the distillation until a heavier fluid begins to pass over, then lower the heat, add the remainder of the spirit, and distil as before; mix the distilled liquors together, pour off the supernatant portion, add the carbonate of potassa, and agitate occasionally for one hour; finally, distil the ether from a large retort, and keep it in a 'svell-stoppered bottle. Sp. gr. *750. 2. (Ph. L. 1851.) Included in the materia medica, but no process given. (See below.) 3. (Ph. E.) Rectifled sjnrif, 2^ pints; sul- phuric acid, 10 fl. oz.; pour 12 fi. oz. of the spirit gently over the acid contained in an open vessel, and mix well; transfer the mixture immediately into a glass matrass connected with a refrigeratory, and raise the heat, quickly, to about 280° Fahr. As soon as ether begins to distil over, supply fresh spirit through a tube into the matrass, in a con- tinued stream, and in such quantity as to equal that of the fluid which distils over. When 42 fl. oz. have distilled over, and the whole of the spirit has been added, the process may be stopped. Agitate the product with 16 fl. oz. of a saturated solution of chloride of calcium, containing 1^ oz. of lime (recently slaked); pour off the supernatant liquor, and distil it with a very gentle heat, so long as the liquor which passes over has a density not above *735. More ether of the same strength may then be obtained from the solution of chloride of calcium; and from the residuum of both distillations a weaker ether may be obtained in a small quantity, which must be rectified by gently distilling it again. 4. (Ph. D.) Nearly similar to the last, but substituting quicklime (in powder) for the chloride of calcium. Sp. gr. *750. 5. (Apothecaries’Hall.) The apparatus con- sists of a leaden still, having a pewter head, and connected by means of about 6 feet of tin pipe with a powerful worm condenser, sur- rounded by a constant stream of ice-cold water, and this is connected with pewter receivers, furnished with glass lids. The still is heated by a coil of lead pipe, supplied with high-pres- sure steam, and the alcohol is supplied to the acid, as required, by means of a small pipe entering the upper part of the still. (Braude.) 6. (Boullay.) The strongest oil of vitriol, 3 parts, are mixed with alcohol, q. s. (about 2 parts at *830) to reduce its sp. gr. to 1-780; an object which may be easily obtained by dis- tilling off some of the ether, if required. The still or retort is then connected with a vessel full of alcohol, of at least 90g, by means of a small syphon tube, furnished with a stopcock; the longer limb of which should be of glass, and so arranged that it just dips into the mix- ture of acid and alcohol. Heat is next applied, and the contents of the still raised to the boiling-point as rapidly as possible, and as soon as full ebullition commences the stop- cock of the syphon is cautiously turned, so as to allow the alcohol to flow down in such a manner as to keep the boiling liquid exactly at the same level; or, in other w-ords, to supply a quantity of alcohol exactly equal I