1165 IIED GUM—KED PIGMENTS. })3ure to the air for a day or two, and im- [ lersioii in very dilute sulphuric acid. In this ay the stulf gets opened, and takes and 'tains the colour better). After the ‘ galling,’ le goods are dried, and alumed twice; then ,'ied, rinsed, and passed through a madder ith, composed of f lb. of good madder for '■ery lb. weight of the goods; this bath is |owly raised to the boiling-point in the course ;* 50 or 60 minutes, more or less, according ji the shade of colour required; after a few jinutes, the stuff is taken out, and slightly iashed; the operation is then repeated, in the me manner, with fresh madder; it is, lastly, iashed and dried, or passed through a hot ap bath, which carries off the fawn-coloured iirticles. 13. (Adeianople eed, Ttjekey e.) This Immences with cleansing or scouring the i)ods by alkaline baths, after which they are jeeped in oily liquors brought to a creamy |ate by a little carbonate soda ; a bath of \cep's dung is next often used as an inter- ;ediate or secondary steep; the oleaginous ith, and the operation of removing the su- irfluous or loosely adhering oil v/ith an al- '.Une bath, is repeated two or three times, iie care being taken to dry the goods tho- ughly after each distinct process; then fol- w the distinct operations of galling, aluming, iddering, and brightening, the last for re- eving the dun-coloured principle, by boiling an elevated temperature with alkaline 'uids and soap; the whole is generally con- ided with treatment by spirit of lin. In is way are given the most brilliant reds on Itton. \Obs. Wool takes from half its weight of ladder to an equal weight to dye it red; jtton and linen take rather less. On account j the comparative insolubility of the colour- g matter of madder, this dye-stuff must be jiled along with the goods to be dyed, and t removed from the decoction, as is the actice in using many other articles. Other c-stulls are frequently added to the madder th, to vary the shades of colour. Decoction I fustic, weld, logwood, quercitron, &c., are en thus employed, the mordants being )dified accordingly. By adding bran to the 'dder bath, the colour is said to be rendered |ich lighter, and of a more agreeable tint. !RED GUM. A slight eruptive disease of jancy, occasioned by teething, and, less fre- jently, by irritation from rough flannel worn i>ct the skin. See Strophulus. RED LAV'ENDER. See Tincture of La- IN'DER (Compound). RED LIQ,'U0R. The crude solution of ace- e or sulpho-acetate of alumina employed i calico-printing. It is generally prepared 1 mixing crude sulphate of alumina with • )ut an equal weight of crude pyrolignite of * 0, both being in the state of solution. RED PIG'MENTS. The preparation of the ijncipal red pigments are described under their respective names. The following list includes most of the reds in use:— Arme'nian Bole. Syn. Bole Armenian ; Bolus Armeni.^:, L. Formerly imported from Armenia, Portugal, Tuscany, &c.; now generally made by grinding together a mixture of whiting, red oxide of iron, and red ochre, in nearly equal proportions. Brown Red. A factitious mixture of red oxide of iron and red ochre, in variable pro- portions. Car'mine. See page 399. Carmina'ted Lake. See page 818. Chrome Red. Syn. Dichromate of lead. Red chromate of l. ; Plumbi dichromas, P. CHEOMAS EUBEUM, L. Prep. 1. See page 826. 2. Boil pure carbonate of lead with chromate of potassa, in excess, until it assumes a proper colour; then wash it well with pure water, and dry it in the shade. 3. Boil neutral chromate of lead with a little water of ammonia or lime water. 4. (Liebig and Wohler.) Fuse saltpetre at a low red heat in a Hessian crucible, and throw in chromate of lead (pure chrome yel- low), by small portions at a time, as long as a strong ebullition follows upon each addition of the pigment, observing to stir the mixture frequently with a glass rod; after repose for a minute or two, pour off the fluid part, and, as soon as the solid residuum is cold, wash it with water, and dry it by a gentle heat. Obs. Great care must be taken, in conduct- ing the last process, not to employ too much heat, nor to allow the saline matter to stand long over the newly formed chrome-red, as the colour is thus apt to change to a brown or orange. When well managed, the product has a crystalline texture, and so beautiful a red colour that it vies with native cinnabar. The liquid poured from the crucible is reserved for manufacturing chrome yellow. In'dian Red. Syn. Purple ochre ; Ochra PURPUREA Persica, Terra Persica, L. This is a native production, brought from Ormus. A factitious articte is prepared by calcining a mixture of colcothar and red ochre. Lakes (Various). See pages 818-9. Light Red. From yeltow ochre, by careful calcination. It works well with both oil and water, and produces an admirable flesh- colour by admixture with pure white. All the ochres, both red and yellow, are darkened by heat. Or'ange Red. Syn. Sandix. Obtained from white lead, by calcination. Very bri ght. Real'gar. Bisuiphuret of arsenic (see page 213, and above). Red Bole. See Armenian and Venetian Bole. Red Chalk. A clay iron-ore, much used for pencils and crayons, and, when ground, also for paints. Red Lead. Syn. Minium. The finest red lead is prepared by exposing ground and elu-