664 FORMIC ETHER—FOXGLOVE. oil of vi/riol, 4 parts; after the frothing is over, apply heat, and distil oft' parts of liquid. 5. (Liehig.) Formate of lead in fine powder is introduced into a long glass tabe, one end of which is connected with an apparatus evolving sulphuretted hydrogen, and the other with a receiver. As soon as the salt is entirely de- composed {blacJcened) a very gentle heat is applied, and the distilled liquid collected; the product is, lastly, boiled for a minute or less, to expel any adhering sulphuretted gas. This furnishes chemically pure hydrated formic acid, containing 1 atom, or 20g, of water. 6. (Liebig.) Dry formate of lead, 18 parts ; oil of vitriol, G parts; water, 1 part; distil in a chloride of calcium hath. This hydrate con- tains 2 atoms, or 40^, of water. 7. From wood spirit and platinum black, as ACETIC ACID. In this process, unlike that for acetic acid, no intermediate compound corre- sponding to aldehyde is produced.^ 8. (C. Watt.) From wood spirit, 1 part; bichromate of potassa and sulphuric acid, of each, 3 parts ; the sulphuric acid, diluted with an equal weight of water, being gradually added last. A portion of wood spirit distils over with the acid, and may he again treated with bichromate of potassa and sulphuric acid, when a fresh portion of formic acid will be produced. This process yields a large product. Prop., purific., ^c. The products of the above processes are limpid and colourless ; the stronger ones fume slightly in the air, and ])ossess an extremely penetrating odour. The first hydrate (No. 5, above) boils at 209° Fahr., crystallizes in brilliant scales below 32°, and has the sp. gr. 1-2353. Its vapour is inllam- mahle, and burns with a blue fiame. The se- cond hydrate (No. 6, above) boils at 223°, does not solidify at —5°, and has the sp. gr. 1-1167. Roth of them are extremely corrosive, and rapidly destroy the texture of living organic substances. The products of the other pro- cesses are very dilute, and possess the above properties in only a minor degree. They may all be purified and concentrated by saturating them with pure carbonate of soda or oipotassa, and after subjecting the liquid to a gentle heat for a short time, and liberating the formic acid from the salt by means of dilute sulphuric acid, finally submitting the mixture to distil- lation, when the hydrated acid will come over perfectly'pure. Formic acid reduces the salts of mercury and silver, and forms salts with the bases termed formates. (See above.) Formic acid is readily distinguished from ACETIC ACID, which in many points it resem- bles, by heating it with a little solution of oxide of silver or mercury; the metal is reduced, and precipitated in a pulverulent state, while carbonic acid is extricated. The odours of the two acids also vary. FORMIC ETHER. See Ether. ^ See Acetic Acid, process V, page 16. FORMOBENZO'IC ACID. A peculiar acid discovered by Winkler, and obtained by dis- solving crude oil of bitter almonds in water, adding hydrochloric acid, evaporating, and treating the dry mass with ether, which dis- solves out the new acid. It may be decoloured by animal charcoal, and obtained in crystals by careful evaporation. It readily combines with the bases forming salts called roRMO- BENZOATES. FORMOMETHY'LAL. A light, oily, and very volatile liquid, obtained by Kane, by distilling a mixture of ^vood spirit and peroxide of magnesia, of each, 2 parts, and oil of vitriol and water, of each, 3 parts. As soon as the boiling-point of the distilled liquor reaches 177° Fahr., the formomethylal begins to pass over, and the receiver must be changed. The product is purified by rectification. It has then an agreeable aromatic odour, boils at 170° Fahr., and is soluble in 3 parts of water; sp. gr. *855. FORM'ULA. [L.] \\\pharmacyo.vAmedicine, a short form of prescription; a recipe. Ry chemists, the term is applied to a grouping of symbols expressing the composition of a body; thus, HCl (standing for 1 equivalent of hydrogen and 1 equiv. of chlorine) is the accepted formula for hydrochloric acid. “A chemical formula is termed empirical when it merely gives the simplest possible expression of the composition of the substance to which it refers. A rational formula, on the con- trary, aims at describing the exact composi- tion of one equivalent or combining proportion of the substance, but .stating the absolute number of equivalents of such of the elements essential to that object, as well as the mere relations existing between them. The empirical formula is at once deduced from the analysis of the substance, reckoned to 100 parts; the ra- tional formula requires, in addition, a know- ledge of its combining quantity, which can only be obtained by direct experiment, by syn- thesis, or by the careful examination of one or more of its most definite compounds. Thus, the composition of acetic acid is expressed by the formula CHO, which exhibits the simplest relations of the three elements; if we want to express the quantities of these, in equiva- lents required to make up an equivalent of acetic acid, we have to adopt the formula C4H4O4 = C4H3O3, HO.^’ (Fovvnes.) See Equi- valents. FOR'MYL. Syn. Formyle. A hypothetical organic radical, having the composition Cyi. Its existence was inferred from the constitu- tion of certain organic compounds which are now referred to the methyl-series. Formic ACID was supposed to be an oxide of formyl; and CHLOROFORM, the terchloride of for- myl. FOX'GLOVE. Syn. Digitalis (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. A genus of plants belonging to the natural order Scrophulariacece. The leaves of the uncultivated ‘ Digitalis purpurea,’ or purple