CEMENTATION—CERAINE. 413 I calcined togetlier, and tlien ground to powder, i See Paekek’s Cement. I Eo'man Cement. Genuine Roman cement (consists of puzzolene (a ferruginous clay from Pozzuoli, calcined by the fires of Vesuvius) lime, and sand. The only preparation which I the puzzolene undergoes is that of pounding I and sifting. It is generally mixed up with (| water, like most other cements, hut occa- i| sionally with bullock’s blood and oil, to give i the composition more tenacity. That used in 1 this country is now generally prepared from ,1 the septaria of either Harwich or Sheppy, or i| of the lias formation, or from the cement stone i found in the upper division of the lias forma- I tion, or in the shale beds of the Kimmeridge 1, clay. It is also prepared from several artificial mixtures ferruginous clay and lime, calcined together. It must he kept in close vessels, and mixed with water when used. See i Paeker’s and Gibbs’ Cement. I Seal Engra'Vers’ Cement. Resembles plumb- ers' cement. Used to fix the pieces of metal while cutting, and also to secure seals and tools in their handles. It grows harder and improves every time it is melted. Sin'ger’s Cement. Prep. 1. Melt together resin, 5 lb., and bees' wax, 1 lb., and stir in ■finely powdered red ochre (highly dried and still warm), 1 lb., and plaster of Paris, 4 oz. ; continuing the heat a little above 212° Fahr., and stirring constantly till all frothing ceases. 2. Resin, Q lb. •, dried red-ochre, \ lb.-, calcined plaster of Paris, ^ lb.; linseed oil, \ lb. Used to cement the plates in voltaic J TROUGHS, to join chemical vessels, &c. No. 2 is specially applicable to troughs. See Elec- 6 TRiCAL Cement. Steam-boiler Cement. Prep. Litharge, in » fine powder, 2 parts; very fine sand and quick- 4 lime (that has been allowed to slake spon- ^ taneously in a damp place), of each, 1 part; 1 mix, and keep it from the air. Used to mend 4 the cracks in boilers and ovens, and to secure J steam joints. It is made into a paste with # boiled oil before application. Steam-pipe Cement. Prep. Good linseed oil V varnish is ground with equal weights of white lead, oxide of manganese, and pipeclay. Transpar'ent Cement. See Elastic Cement. Turn'ers’ Cement. Prep. Bees' wax, 1 oz.; ' resin, ^ oz.; pitch, ^ oz.; melt, and stir in ' fine brick-dust, q. s. Varley’s Cement. Syn. Yarley’s mastic. Black resin, 16 parts; bees'wax, ; melt, add whiling (sifted, dried by a dull-red heat, and allowed to cool), 16 parts; and stir until nearly cold. Univers'al Cement. See Parabolic Cement. Water Cement. Prep. 1. From good gray clay, 4 parts; black oxide of manganese, 6 parts; limestone (reduced to powder by sprinkling it with water), 90 parts; mix, calcine, and powder. 2. Mix white iron ore (manganese iron ore), 15 parts, with lime, 85 parts; calcine and powder as above. Both this and the preced- ing must be mixed up with a little sand for use. A piece thrown into water rapidly hardens. 3. Fine clean sand, 1 cwt.; quicklime, in powder, 28 lb.; bone ashes, 14 lb. The above are beat up with water for use. See Hy- draulic Cement, &c. Wa'terproof Cement. Several compounds of this class have been already noticed. The celebrated “ ?cfl^er;?roq/’ cement of con- sists of porcelain clay or pipeclay, dried by a gentle heat, and powdered, mixed up to the consistence of a paste with boiled linseed oil, and, sometimes, a little oil of turpentine. It is coloured by ndding a little red or yellow ochre, or any similar pigment. It is used to cover the fronts of buildings, roofs of veran- dahs, &c. Concluding Remarks, ,For mending broken CHINA, EARTHENWARE, GLASS, and WOOD, the preparations generally used are the ce- ments described ab^ove as Armenian, Botany Bay, Cheese, Chinese, Curd, Egg, Extem- poraneous, Glass, Glue, Hensler’s, Hce- nle’s. Mahogany, and Parabolic. For spar, MARBLE, and similar materials, the Alabaster CEMENT is specially adapted; the Egg and Parabolic cements will, however, answer the same purpose. For cloth, leather, PAPER, CARD, and light eancy work, the most suitable cements are the Elastic, Chinese, Flour, French, and Japanese. The cements adapted for chemical and ELECTRICAL APPARATUS, and for SEALING BOTTLES, are those termed Bottle, Brim- stone, Cap, Chemical, Electrical, Labo- ratory, Massiat’s, and Varley’s. The Building and Hydraulic cements are described under the heads Architectural, Beale’s, Bruyere’s, Fireprooe, Gad’s, Gibbs’, Hamelin’s, Hydraulic, Keene’s, Oxychloride, Parker’s, Pew’s, Portland, Roman, Water, and Waterproof. The ce- ments used for metal-work, &c., in different trades, are noticed under the heads Copper- smiths’, Cutlers’, Engineers’, Grinders’, Iron, Letter-fixing, Opticians’, Plumb- ers’, Seal-engravers’, Steam-boiler, Steam-pipe, and Turners’. See Glue, Lute, Mortar, Tooth-cement, &c. CEMENTA'TION. The process of imbedding a substance in, or covering it with, some powder or composition capable of acting on it when heated, and in this state exposing it to a red heat. Iron is converted into steel, and glass into Reaumur's j^orcelain, by cementa- tion. CEN'TAURINE. Syn. Centaurin'a. The bitter extractive matter of Erythcea centan- rium, or common centaury. Combined with hydrochloric acid, it has been highly recom- mended as a febrifuge. CEN'TAURITE. The bitter ]u’inciple of the Cnicus bniediclus, or blessed thistle. CE'EAINE. A non-saponifiable fat obtained