BARYTES—BASALT. 273 to those of anhydrous baryta. It is preferred to either the carbonate or nitrate as a ‘ flux ’ in testing the silicates for alkalies. Hydri'odate of Baryta. See Iodide of Bakium. Hydrochlo"rate of Baryta. See Ciiloeide OF Baeium. Hydrosul'phate of Baryta. See Sdephueet OF Baeiiim. Hypophos'phite of Baryta. Spi. Baey’tje iiyroPHOs'PHAS, L. Prep. See Hypophos- piriTES. Very soluble. I'odate of Baryta. Scarcely soluble. See loDATE and Iodic Acid. Lac'tate of Baryta. Soluble. See Lactate and Lactic Acid. ft! Lith'ate of Baryta. See Ueic Acid. Ifi Methi'onateof Baryta. Soluble; resembles >5 chlorate of potassa in appearance. See Metdi- lil oNic Acid. i Mu"riate of Baryta. See Chloeide of K Baeiijm. l| Ni'trate of Baryta, Spi. Baey't.e yi'teas I (rii. E.), L. Prep. As the ‘ acetate ’ or “ the j muriate (chloride of barium), substituting I pure nitric acid for muriatic acid.’’ (Ph. E.) EProp., Sfc. Transparent, colourless octahe- , di’ons, which are anhydrous, insoluble in j alcohol, and require about 8 ])arts of cold water, and about 3 parts of boiling water, for solution. ] Uses. In chemistry, to prepare baryta, and I as a test for sulphuric acid and the sohible sulphates; and in pyrotecliny, to give a green i tinge to flame. ! Ox'alate of Baryta. Syn. Baey't.e ox'alas, i b. Prep. From oxalic acid, ^^c., as the ni- I trate. Very nearly insoluble. See Baey'TA j and Oxalate. ! Phos'phate of Baryta. Syn. Baey't.e m PHOS'PHAS, L. Prep. As the last. Insoluble. 1 See Baeyta and Phosphate. Phos'phite of Baryta. Nearly insoluble. See Baeyta and Piiosphoeous Acid. Pyrocit'rate of Baryta. Nearly insoluble. See Aconitate of Baeyta {above). Sul'phate of Baryta. Syn. Heat'y spae, i Bolo"gnian s.*, B. stoxe*', Cawk (mi); j Baey'tje siil'phas (Ph. E. & D.), Spa'thiuh i pondeeo'stjai, &c., L. j Sulfate de baeyte, jSPATH PESAXT, &C., Fr.j SCHWEFELSAUEES BAEYT, ScHWEESPATH, &c., Ger. This salt is found native, often in beautiful tabular crys- tals, but more frequently in white or reddish- white masses. It is also occasionally pre- pared artificially, as a ‘ pigment ’ and ‘ che- mical,’ by decomposing a solution of chloride of barium with dilute sulphuric acid, or with a solution of sulphate of soda; the resulting precipitate being collected, well washed,' and dried. ' To pvoflncc the cliemically 'ptire sulphate the ‘preci- pitate’ must he well-washed first with moderately dilute nitric acid, and afterwards with hot water; as traces of the chloride are carried down with the precipitate, and niiich water alone will not remove. Prop., kc. \Yhen pure, or free from iron, its powder is white. It is insoluble in water, and nearly insoluble in all other menstrua.- Before the blowpipe it decrepitates, fuses with great difficulty (by which it is distin- guished from the ‘sulphates’ of ‘strontia’ and ‘lime’), and ultimately melts into a hard, white enamel. Mixed with charcoal, and heated to redness in a covered crucible, it is reduced to sulphuret of barium.'^ It is readily- decomposed by fusion with alkaline car- 'bonates; also very slightly so by their cold solutions; but ultimately completely, though slowly^, by their boiling solutions. “ White or flesh-red; heavy, lamellar, and brittle.” (Ph. ^•) fo 4’75. Comp. Baryta, G5*643‘’; sulphuric acid, 35’347g. (Berzelius.) Uses. Chiefly as a pigment (pee'manext- white), and to adulterate white-lead; for which purj)oses the ‘native sulphate’ is com- monly well-washed, first in very dilute sul- phuric acid, and afterwards in pure water, to remove any ‘iron’ which may contaminate it, and impair its whiteness. It is also used to form sulphuret of barium; and, in pyrotechny, instead of the more expensive nitrate. See Baeyta, White Pighexts, &c. Sul'phite of Baryta. Insoluble. See Ba- eyta and Sulphite. Tar'trate of Baryta. Slightly soluble. Sec Baey’ta, Taeteates, &e. U"rate of Baryta. Insoluble. See Ueic Acid. Bary'ta-water. See Baeyta and Solu- TIOXS. BARY'TES (-tez). [Gr.] Baryta. BARYT'IC (-rit'-). Syn. Baeyt'icus, L. ; Baey'tique, Fr. Of baryta, or pertaining to or containing it. j BARY'TINE (-tin). Syn. Jee'vixe*; Ba- eyti'xa (bar-re-), Baeytia (-rish'-’a), L. A base found, by Simon, in the rhizomes of ivhite hellebore. It is precipitated from its solutions by sulphuric acid and the sulphates-, like baryta, a property which affords the means for its isolation. BARY'TUM*. Barium. BASALT' (ba-sblt')-'. [Eng., Ger.] Syn. Basal'tes (-sal'-tez), L.; Basalte, Fr. In geology, 8fc., a species of trap-rock, essentially composed of the minerals felspar and augite. It is of a fine compact texture, of a dark- green, gray’-, or black colour, and usually occurs in regular columns, of which the Giants’ Causeway and the Island of Stafla furnish magnificent examples. It is fusible; and when rapidly cooled forms a dark brittle glass; but when slowly cooled retains its original beauty and hardness almost unimpaired. Messrs. * Tlie cold dilute acids dissolve trifling, yet appreciable traces of sulphate of baryta; and the concentrated acids, considerably more, especially when hot or boiling. (Fre- senius.) 3 “Free access of air prevents this reduction taking place.” (Fresenius.) * Ba'salt—Mayne; a ‘ notation’ contrary to that of all our leading orthoepists and lexicographers. 18