1318 VIOLET—VISCOUS FERMENTATION. sulphur, and most of the salts that readily part with their oxygen. These substances arrest fermentation by rendering the yeast inopera- tive, and they possess this power nearly in the order in which they stand above. In practice, mustard, the/wmes of burning sulphur, sulphite of lime, and chlorate of potassa, are those most adapted for beer, cider, wines, syrups, &c.; but some of the others are occa- sionally used, though less active. For arrest- ing or preventing the fermentation of the vegetable juices and solutions, and the medi- cated syrups employed in pharmacy, mustard seed, either alone or combined with a little bruised cloves, may he safely used, as the addi- tion of acids or salts would lead to the decom- position of their active principles. For this reason such liquids should he kept in a suffi- ciently low temperature to prevent fermen- tation ; and should they pass into that state, it should be preferably arrested by the appli- cation of heat or cold, as above explained. Sugar of milk is also very effective for certain syrups, if not all of them. To prevent, or rather to lessen, the produc- tion of fusel oil, it has been proposed to add a certain quantity of tartaric acid or bitartrate of potassa to the wort; or, to arrest the fer- mentative process somewhat before the liquid has reached its utmost degree of attenuation. The best means of depriving the spirit of this and other substances of a similar nature is to largely dilute it with water, and to redistil it at a gentle heat. Agitation with olive oil, decantation, dilution with a large quantity of water, and redistillation, have also been recom- mended. An excellent method is filtration through newly burnt and coarsely powdered charcoal. This plan succeeds perfectly with moderately diluted spirit. On the Continent, the addition of about lOg of common vinegar, and a very little sulphuric acid, followed by agitation, repose for a few days, and redls- tillation, is a favourite method. A solution of chloride of lime is also employed for the same purpose, and in the same way. In both these cases a species of ether is formed, which pos- sesses a very agreeable odour. In the first, acetate of oxide of amyl (essence of jargonelle) is produced; and in the other, chloride of amyl, which also possesses a pleasant ethereal smell and taste. The affinity of the hydrated oxide of amyl (fusel-oil) for acetic acid is so great, that they readily unite without the intervention of a mineral acid. (Doehereiner.) Thus, the oil of vitriol mentioned above, though always used in practice, might be omitted without any disadvantage. According to Messrs. Bowerbank, the dis- tillers, quoted by Dr. Pereira, 500 gall, of corn spirit yield about one gall, of corn-spirit oil. See Acetification, Alcohol, Brewing, Distillation, Fermentation, Fusel Oil, Spirit, Vinegar, Viscous Fermentation, Yeast, &c. VI'OLET. Syn. Purple violet. Sweet | V.; Viola (Ph. L. & E.), L. “The recent petals of Viola odorata, Linn.^’ (Ph. L.) It is chiefly used on account of its colour. See Syrup. VIOLET DYE. Violet, like purple, is pro- duced by a mixture of red and blue colouring matter, applied either together or in suc- cession. The ‘ aniline colours' are now almost exclusively used for obtaining violet on silk and wool (see Aniline Purple, page 1148). With the old dye-stuffs, violets may be thus obtained:—A good violet may be given to silk or WOOL by passing it first through a solution of verdigris, then through a decoction of log- wood, and, lastly, through alum water. A fast violet may be given by first dyeing the goods a crimson with cochineal, without alum or tartar, and, after rinsing, passing them through the indigo vat.—Linens and cottons are first galled with about 18g of gall-nuts, next passed through a mixed mordant of alum, iron liquor, and sulphate of copper, working them well, then through a madder bath made with an equal weight of root, and, lastly, brightened with soap or soda. Another good method is to pass cloth, previously dyed Turkey red, through the blue vat. Wool, silk, cotton, or linen, mordanted with alum and dyed in a logwood bath, or a mixed bath of archil and Brazil, takes a pretty, but false, violet. VIS'COUS FERMENTA'TION. Syn. Muci- laginous fermentation. Mucous f. The peculiar change by which sugar, in solution, is converted into gummy matters, and other products, instead of into alcohol. When the expressed juice of the beet is ex- posed to a temperature of 90° to 100° Fahr., for a considerable time, the sugar it contains suffers this peculiar kind of fermentation. Gases are evolved which are rich in hydrogen, instead of being exclusively carbonic acid, and when the sugar has, for the most part, disappeared, mere traces of alcohol are found in the liquid, but, in place of that substance, a quantity of lactic acid, mannite, and a muci- laginous substance, resembling gum arabic, and said to be identical with gum in composition. By boiling yeast or the gluten of wheat in water, dissolving sugar in the filtered solution, and exposing it to a tolerably high tem- perature, the viscous fermentation is set up, and a large quantity of the gummy principle generated, along with a ferment of a globular texture, like that of yeast, but which is capa- ble of producing only the viscous fermentation in saccharine solutions. The peculiar cloudy, stringy, oily appearance of wine and beer, called by the French ‘ graisse,' and the English ^ropiness’ depends on the accession of the viscous fermentation. The mineral acids and astringent substances, espe- cially the sulphuric and sulphurous acids, and tannin, precipitate the viscous ferment, and are, hence, the best cures for this malady of fermented liquors. It is the large amount of tannic acid in the red wines and well-hopped beer which is the cause of their never being