206 A RDENT—AREOMETER. sometimes used, but does not add to the per- manence of the colour. Solution of tin, added to the hath, increases the durability, but turns the colour more on the scarlet. (Hellot.) Milk of lime or salt of tartar is added to darken it; acids or solution of tin to redden it. A beautiful crimson-red is obtained by first passing the stuff through a mordant of tin and tartar, and then through a hath of archil mixed with a very little solution of tin. By the proper management of this dye, lilacs, violets, mallows, rosemary-flower, soupes au vin, agates, and many other shades, may be Ijroduced on silk or cloth, either alone or in conjunction with other dyes to modify it. f lb. of solid archil, or its equivalent in a liquid form, will dye 1 to 2 lb. of cloth. Heeb-aechil, it is asserted, will bear boiling, and gives a more durable tint than the other lichens, especially with solution of tin. (Hellot.) Recently Mr. Lightfoot has pa- tented a process for dyeing with archil with the aid of oil, after the manner followed for producing Turkey-red on cottons; but the advantages of this plan, if any, have not yet been developed. See Cudbeae, Dyeing, Lichens, Litmus, S;c. Facti"tious Archil:—1. From a mixture of onions (in a state of incipient putrefaction) with about 1-lOth to l-12th their weight of carbonate of potash and some ammonia, fer- mented together; and adding, after some days, l-7th to l-8th of the Aveight of the potash used in a salt of lead. The details of the process essential to success, are, however, now unknown, the secret having died Avith a relative of the Avriter of this article. 2. Extract of logwood dissolved in juice of elderberries and putrid urine, Avith the ad- dition of a little pearlash for the blue, and a very little oxalic acid or oil of vitriol, for the EED A'ariety. Used to stain Avood. Herb-arch'il. Roccella tinctoria. See Ae- ! CHiL (above). Lichens, & Mosses. AR'DENT. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ae'dens, L. Hot; burning; fiery ; causing or accompanied Avith a sensation of heat. In pathology, ap- plied to fevers and other diseases marked by great heat of the surface. In commerce, an epithet of strong spirits (aedent spieits) ; as brandy, rum, yin, Hollands, &c. AR'DOR. [L.] Ardour; heat. In patho- logy, morbid increase of animal heat, or of the sensation of heat; exacerbation of inflamma- tory symptoms. ARE'CA. [L.] In botany, a genus of East Indian trees, of the Na.t. ord., Palmae (DC.). Areca Cat'echu. [L.; Linn.] Syn. Aee'ca, A. In'dica, a. Faupel, Be'tel-nut teee. Hob. East Indies. Fruit (betel-nut), astrin- gent and narcotic; husk of fruit { penang or pinang), sialagogue and stomachic; both are used as masticatories; wood and nut yield an inferior or bastard sort of catechu; charcoal of the 7iut highly esteemed as tooth-powder. See Betel, Chaecoal, Masticatoeies, Teeth, &c. Areca Globulif'era. [L.] Properties similar to the last. i Areca Olera'cea. [L.; Willd.] Cabbage- | palm. ARENA'CEOUS (ar-e-). Syn. Aeena'ceus, L.; Aeenace, Sablonneux, Fr.; Sandig, Sandaetig, Ger. In agricultm'e, mineralogy, ^c., sandy ; resembling sand; friable. | ARENA"RI0US (-nare'-). Aeena "EIUS, I L.; Aeenaiee, Fr. Sandy, arenaceous. In agriculture and botany, applied to soils (aee- NAEious soils) in Avhich sand is the prevailing and characteristic ingredient; also to plants that grow in sandy or arid soils. AEEHA'TION. Syn. Sabueea'tion ; Aee- na'tio, L. ; Aeenation, Fr.; Sandbad, Ger. In medicine, sand-bathing; a practice formerly prevalent, in dropsy, of applying hot sand, either by immersion or otherwise, to the feet, legs, or even the whole body. ARENOSE' (ar-e-n5se'). Syn. Ae'enous*; Aeeno'sus, L.; Aeeneux, Fr. Sandy; are- naceous (which see). ARE'OLA. [L.] Syn. Aeeola'tion; Aeeole, j Fr. A little circle or space. In anatomy, the pale reddish or brownish halo or circle sur- rounding the nipple; in pathology, the in- flamed ring which forms round the pustules in certain diseases, as in cow-pox when genuine; in physiology, a cytoblast or cell-nucleus. Flence the adj. aee'olae, in aiiatomy, botany, &c., also sometimes used synonymously Avith ‘ cellular.’ AREOM'ETER (a-re- or ar-re-; are-e— Smart). Sign. Aeeom'eteum, L.; Aeeo- ^ METEE, Fr. Literally, a ‘ measure of lightness’ or ‘rarity,’ originally applied to any instru- j ment for determining the speciflc gravity of ; alcoholic and ethereal liquids; but since ap- plied, like the word ‘ hydrometer,’ to instru- ments adjusted to the densities of all liquids. In this country, the term is principally con- fined to the areometres of Baume, on account of their general use by Continental chemists. The relations and equivalents of Bauine’s scales, as now adopted in France, are shoAvu in . the first two of the folloAviug Tables :—