GIN. 690 &c. A ‘dead gold appearance^ is produced by the application to the articles of a weak solution of nitrate of mercury previously to the immer- sion in the ‘ gilding liquoror the ‘ deadening’ may be given by applying a solution of the nitrate to the newly gilded surface, and then expelling the mercury by heat. The gilding liquor.—Take of fine gold, 5 oz. (troy); ‘ nitro-muriatic acid,’ 52 oz. (avoir- dupois); dissolve by heat, and continue the heat until red or yellovs^ vapours cease to be evolved; decant the clear liquid into a suit- able vessel; add of distilled water, 4 gall.; pure bicarbonate of pot assa, 20 lb. ; and boil for 2 hours. The nitro-muriatic acid is made with pure nitric acid (sp. gr. 1‘45), 21 oz.; pure muriatic acid (sp. gr. 1*15), 17 oz.; and dis- tilled water 14 oz. This process, though patented by Mr. El- kington in England, was in reality discovered and first practised by M. Bonnet, a foreigner. Articles thus gilded do not bear friction and the operations of being put in colour {mise en couleur) so well as those gilded by the ‘ mer- curial process, or by the methods of ‘ cold’ or ‘ leaf gilding’ as applied to polished metals. 2. (Talbot’s/;a^e/i/.) By thisprocess;>o/isAcaf metallic articles are gilded by simple immersion in a solution of gallic acid in water, ether, or alcohol, to which a solution of gold has been previously added. Silvering- and plati- nizing may be effected in the same manner, by using a solution of either of these metals instead of one of gold. These and other chemical processes have been almost completely superseded by the certain and economical process of electro- gilding. See Electrotype. Gilding Amalgam. See Amalgam. Gilding Liquor. This name has been given to various solutions of gold, and to other liquids employed in gilding. The former are noticed elsewhere. Among the latter are the following ; ‘ Beading’ aquafortis. From mercury, 1 part; aquafortis (sp. gr. 1’33), 3 parts; dis- solve, and add of soft water, 7 parts. Used to produce a ‘ dead-gold’ effect. It is applied (diluted) to the articles, before spreading the amalgam over them, in water gilding ; or be- fore placing them in the ‘ gilding liquor,’ in the chemical processes. Mercurial solution. From mercury, 10 parts, dissolved in aquafortis (sp. gr. 1’33), 11 parts, and the solution diluted with 25 times its weight of water. Used to moisten the ‘ scratch brush’ before drawing it over the amalgam, in mercurial gilding ; also to ‘ deaden’ the gilded surface, by moistening the latter with it, and then exposing the ‘ piece’ to a heat sufficiently high to drive off the mercury. Gilder’s pickle. From alum and common salt, of each, 1 oz.; nitre, 2 oz.; dissolved in water, ^ pint. Used to impart a rich colour to gold surfaces, especially of trinkets. Its ap- j)lication should not be too long continued, as it dissolves a small portion of the gold. For common purposes it is best used largely di- luted with water. Vermeil, Vermeil coating, Or-molu c. From annotta and salt of tartar, of each, 1 oz. ; dragon’s blood, ^ oz.; water, 1 quart; simmer down to about one fourth, add saffron, 20 gr., and when merely tepid, strain through fine muslin into a bottle. Used to give lustre and fire to distemper gilding. A little is floated over the surface with a very soft, flat, camel- hair brush. Gilding Metal. The metal employed as a base for gilding is usually brass, or a mixture of brass and copper. The following propor- tions have been recommended:— 1. Copper, 6 parts; brass, 1 part. 2. Copper, 4 parts; Bristol brass, 1 part. 3. Copper, 13 parts; old Bristol brass, 3 parts; tin, 14 parts. Gilding Powder. Prep. 1. Pure gold, 5 dr.; pure copper, 1 dr.; aqua regia, 10 oz.; dissolve, moisten clean linen rags with the solution, dry them, and burn them to ashes. The latter contain the gold in a state of minute division, and must be carefuUy col- lected. 2. Grain gold, 1 dr.; rose copper, 15 gr.; aqua regia, 2 fl. oz.; proceed as last. Used in ‘ Cold Gilding.’ 3. See Gold (in powder). Gilding Shells. See Gold Shells. Gilding Size. See Gold Size. Gilding Wax. Syn. Gilding varnish. Gilder’s wax. Prep. 1. From bees’ wax, 4 oz.; verdigris and sulphate of copper, of each, 1 oz.; melted together. 2. Bees’ wax, 4 oz.; verdigris, red ochre, and alum, of each, 1 oz. Used to give a red gold-colour to water-gilding. GIN. Syn. Gene'va. Corn spirit flavoured with either oil of juniper or oil of turpentine. Gin was originally and, for some time, wholly imported from Holland, and was a rich, soft spirit, flavoured, chiefly, with juniper berries; on which account it had obtained the name of ‘ geneva,’ from ‘ genievre,' the French for juniper. After a time the distil- lation of an imitation geneva sprung up in this country, when the foreign spirit came to be called ‘Hollands,’ or ‘Hollands geneva,’ to distinguish it from the spirit of home manufacture. The English monosyllable ‘ gin ’ is a corruption of geneva, the primary syllable of which, as in numerous other instances, was seized on by the vulgar, and adopted as a short and convenient substitute for the whole word. The liquor at present known by the name of fiin’ in this country is a very different article to that imported from Holland, and consists of plain corn-spirit, flavoured with oil of turpentine and small quantities of certain aromatics. The thousand and one receipts for this article, which have from time to time been printed in books, produce a flavoured spirit bearing no resemblance to the more