CHOKE-DAMP—CHOLERA. 441 2. (Cottereau.) Cocoa paste, 6 lb.; sugar, 10 lb.; vanilla, 11 dr. See forms previously given. Ver'mifuge Chocolate. Syn. Chocola'ta VEEMiFTj'aA, L. See Puegative Chocolate (Nos. 2 and 3, above). White Chocolate. Syn. White cocoa, Cae'eageen c. ; Chocola'ta cum chon'heo, 1 Pas'ta caca'o cum chon'deo, P. c. c. li- chen'e caeeaghen'o, L. Prep. 1. As Iceland moss chocolate, but employing car- rageen moss. I 2. (Ph. Dan.) Roasted and decorticated cocoa seeds (reduced to a subtile mass in a warm iron mortar) and powdered white sugar, of each, 2 lb.; powdered carrageen (debitterized), 3 oz. ! 3. (Cottereau.) Sugar, 6 lb. ; rice flour, l^lb.; \ potato starch and butter of cocoa, of each, ^ lb.; I gum arabic, ^ lb. (dissolved); tincture of va- I nilla, ^ fl. oz.; boiling water, q. s.; triturate to I a stiff paste. The above are highly nutritious, and are recommended as articles of diet for convalescents and debilitated persons. CHOKE-DAMP. Syn. Aft'ee-damp. The term applied by miners to carbonic acid and other irrespirable gases and vapours evolved in mines. See Caebonic Acid, Fiee Damp, Ventilation, &c. CHOLALIC ACID. Syn. CholTc acid.^ A non-nitrogenous acid existing in bile. It is best prepared by boiling the resinous mass precipitated by ether from an alcoholic solution of ox bile with a dilute solution of potassa, for 24 to 36 hours, till the amorphous potassa- salt that has separated begins to crystallize. The dark-coloured soft mass is then removed from the alkaline liquid, dissolved in water, and hydrochloric acid added. A little ether will I cause the deposition of the cholalic acid B from this solution in crystals. With sulphuric acid and solution of sugar, it strikes a purple- violet colour; this constitutes Pettenkofer’s test for bile. CHOLE'IC ACID. Syn. Taueo-cholal'ic ACID. A peculiar conjugated compound of cholalic acid with a substance called taurine, which contains both nitrogen and sulphur. In combination with soda, choleic acid constitutes a principal ingredient in bile. CHOLERA. This word, which, from its de- rivation, can be only applied correctly to a bilious affection of the stomach and bowels, has been of late years very loosely extended to a malignant disease, the most marked cha- racteristic of which is a total suspension of the functions of the biliary organs. En"glish Cholera. Syn. Com'mon choleea, ! Bil'ious c. ; Chol'eea moe'bus, L. a disease characterised by bilious vomiting and purging, accompanied by more or less pain and debility. Diarrhoea is the most common precursor of the disease, and ought to be attended to with- j out delay, particularly if the weather be warm. I ^ This name is generally applied to another compound. I See Cholic Acid. Cholera most frequently occurs towards the end of the summer and early in the autumn, when the increased heat of the sun stimulates the liver to an inordinate secretion of bile, by which the whole system becomes overloaded with it. Among secondary and accidental causes, are sudden changes of temperature, checked perspiration, and the use of indiges- tible food, and food and beverages in a state of incipient decomposition. It is usually accom- panied by fever, thirst, and severe colic, and, sometimes, by cold sweats, extreme debility, feeble pulse, &c., under which the patient sinks in 24 hours. Treat. In most cases this complaint is not dangerous, and yields to proper treatment in a few days. As soon after the commencement of the attack as possible, some mild aperient should be administered. Opiates may be em- ployed, both topically and by the mouth. Jeremie's solution is stated to be very effica- cious “ in the diarrhoea which so generally pre- cedes cholera.^’ A teaspoonful or two of lau- danum, rubbed over the region of the stomach and bowels, is a simple application which will generally allay the pain. 10 to 20 drops of laudanum, mixed with a table-spoonful of good brandy, or a few grains of cayenne pepper, may also be taken every hour, if the pain is severe. Should the stomach reject the medicine, or the vomiting be apparently increased by drinking warm diluents, a few spoonfuls of ice-cold water, or of a mixture of lemon-juice and water, may be taken instead, until the sickness abates. Dr. Copeland recommends spirit of turpentine in violent attacks, both internally and as an external application in the form of warm epi- thems. When the violence of the symptoms have abated, tonics and bitters (as calumba, gentian, orange-peel, &c.) may be advantageously had recourse to. Calumba, in the form of a weak in- fusion, conjoined, if necessary, with aromatics, is, perhaps, the most valuable agent we possess for the after-treatment of the disease. See Diaeehcea. Malig'nant Cholera. Syn. Asiat'ic cho- leea, Epidem'ic c.. Blue c., Pestilen'tial c., Spasmod'ic c. ; Chol'eea AsiatTca, C. as- PHYX'IA, C. malig'na, L. This fearful disease first became known in this country in the autumn of 1831. The attack usually begins with sickness and purging; this discharge, however, is not bilious, as in ordinary cholera, but a thin, colourless fluid, like rice-water; at the same time there is great prostration of strength, and cold, clammy sweats. In a short time dreadful cramps assail the extremities and afterwards the abdomen; the body becomes bent, the limbs twisted, the countenance cada- verous, the pulse almost imperceptible, and the eyes sunken; the patient sinks into a state of apathy, and unless a favorable change speedily takes place, soon expires from exhaus- tion, When there is a reaction the pulse gradu- ally returns, the natural warmth of the body is I restored, and the spasms and difficulty of