51 AGRONOMY—AIGUILLETTE. of either animal or vegetable matter; which may be either applied separately or together, and in a fresh state or in a state of decay. Their action is, however, much more effective after they have undergone the putrefactive fermentation. In employing manures, the great object of the cultivator is to apply enough for the ensuing crop, and as little more as possible; as all that is applied and not immediately used, is liable, to a certain extent, to have its particles carried off by volatilisation into the atmosphere, or by rain into rivers or the sea. But even if this were not the case, to manure a soil which would not imme- diately yield a crop, would be an expenditure of capital without interest. The improvement of the soil, considered as a mixture of different earths, mainly consists in rendering it more or less retentive of water, by the addition of clay in some cases, and of sand in others; and by the addition of such earthy, mineral, or saline matter, as may be present in too small quantities, or absent alto- gether. Experience shows, that those soils which are composed of several primitive earths are naturally more productive than those that consist of only one earth, other circumstances being the same; and that no soil will maintain its fertility for any length of time, that does not contain a very large proportion of calca- reous earth {lime, chalk, H^c.) in its composition. Hence, the addition of lime, and the admixture of soils with other soils of an opposite description. The rotation or succession of crops, may also be considered as connected with the fer- tility of soils, and the application of manures. To maintain a soil in a fertile state, it is not only necessary to supply it with manure, in proportion to the crops which have been carried from it, but to vary the crops which it is made to produce. It is found that plants belonging to the same natural family, do not succeed so well after each other, as when crops of a different family are made to intervene. Thus, the several grasses alternate better with root or herbage crops, than with one another; or, one of those grasses of which the seed is ripened will alternate better with another in which the herbage only constitutes the crop, than with one of the same kind as itself. Something analogous also takes place with regard to the pasturage of animals. Cattle flourish better in a field that has been grazed by horses, than horses after ‘ horses,’ or cattle after * cattle.’ (Loudon.) The succession of crops becomes necessary, from the fact that certain mineral or saline matters enter into the composition of one class of plants, which are not required by another; at the same time that the other matters present in the soil accumulate ready to be appropriated by those plants into the constitution of which they enter. The necessity for the rotation of crops can only be obviated by supplying such plants with a proper quantity of the substances which enter into their composition, in the shape of manure. This practice requires a thorough knowledge of the chemical constitu- tion of both the plants and soil; besides which, the expense of so doing so greatly exceeds that of the ordinary method of ma- nuring with the proper rotation of crops, as to preclude its introduction on the large scale. Crops should therefore always succeed each other in such a way that the soil may not be exhausted of any one particular kind of nutri- ment. The Agricultural Societies of modern times have done much to promote scientific farming. See Loudon’s “ Cycl. of Agr.f Liebig’s Agr. Chem.,” and the articles Ab- SOEPTION, Clay, Faeming, Hedges, Imple- ments, Live-STOCK, Loam, Mantjees, Rota- tion OF Ceops, Soils, Vegetables, Wheat, &c., in this work. AGRON'OMY.* Syn. Ageono'mia, L. ; Ageonomie, Fr. The theory of field culti- vation ; scientific agriculture. AGRYPNOT'ICS (-grip-). Syn. Anthypnot'- ics (-hip-); Ageypnot'ica, Anthypnot'ica, L. In medicine and pharmacology, agents or substances which prevent sleep; as tea, coffee, digitalis, vinegar, &c. A'GUE (-gfi). See Fevee (Intermittent). A'gue-cake. The popular name of a tumour felt under the false ribs on the left side, formed by enlargement and induration of the spleen, following protracted ague; also, sometimes, of indurations of the liver following ague. A'gue-drop. See Quack Medicines. A'gue-salt (-solt). Disulphate of quinine. A'gue-tree. Sassafras. A'gue-weed. The herb thorough-wort (‘Eupa- to"rium perfolia'tum,’ Linn.). AGUS'TINE. a name given by Trommsdorfi* to a supposed new earth found by him in the Saxon beryl; since shewn by Vauquelin to be merely phosphate of lime. AIG'REMORE (eg'r-moF). [Fr.] Pulver- ised charcoal in the state it is used to make gunpowder. AIGUILLETTE (eg-wil-yet'). [Fr.] In