FLOUR. 655 i tliod is applicable in the greater number of j cases.^ j Anal. The value of wheat flour as an ' aliment depends upon the quantity of gluten, \ sugar, starch, and phosphate of lime, which it I contains; and its superiority over the flour of the grains of the other cereals, is referred to 1 its containing a larger proportion of the first j and last of these substances than they do. ! Tlie quantitative analysis of four is very simple, j and may be easily made by persons unac* quainted with chemistry, by attending to the j instructions below :— I a. Make 1000 gr. of the sample into a j dough with a little water, let it rest an hour, * and then gently knead it in successive waters, until the starchy particles are perfectly re- moved. Collect the portion (gluten) left in the hand, drain off the water, place it on a piece of filtering or blotting paper, several 'times doubled, and set it aside. b. Mix the several waters employed in the preceding process, and set them aside in a tall vessel, to deposit the suspended portion (starch). After a sufficient time, pour off the clear liquid, and throw the whole of the sediment on a weighed paper filter, placed in a funnel, observing to remove the portion ad- hering to the bottom of the vessel by means of a little clean water, that none may be lost. c. Evaporate the decanted liquid, as well as what runs from the filter, until it becomes curdy, then filter it through a piece of weighed blotting paper, and preserve the sediment (albumen) ; next evaporate the residuum to the consistence of a syrup, agitate it with 10 times its weight of alcohol, and filter, ob- ; serving to wash the paper filter clean with a little alcohol after the solution has passed [through it. The substance on the paper is I PHOSPHATE OP LIME and gum, and must be 'set aside. By subsequent digestion in water, filtration, and evaporation, the two may be obtained separately. I d. Evaporate or distill off the spirit from jthe solution and washings, as above; the resi- duum is SUGAR. e. Dry the substances educed as above, by a gentle heat, and weigh them. The weight of Ithe albumen may be taken with that of the \gluten, as it possesses about the same nutritive value, and also because it has been asserted by some persons that the former substance is in reality gluten, and not albumen. By dividing tlie given weights by 10, the per-centage value of the sample is obtained. The pieces of fil- itering j)aper employed should be carefully dried and weighed before using them, and the same degree of heat should be employed for this purpose as that to which they will be afterwards exposed in the drying of the sub- istances resulting from the operations, i Obs. The above method of ascertaining the actual value of any sample of flour as an ar- ' ^ See also Bhkad {Adult, and Exam.), page 354. tide of food, though not strictly accurate, ap- proximates sufiiciently to the truth for all practical purposes, and is well adapted to the wants of the baker and large purchaser. In many cases it will only be necessary^ to perform the first part of the process {a), which will give the per-centage of the most important constituent of the flour; the rest being of minor consequence. In addition to w’hat has been already stated in the article on Bread, it may be useful to mention, that a pound of the best flour, from thoroughly dried wheat, will take \0fl. oz. of water to form it into ordinary dough, ordfl. oz. to form it into bread dough. Under the old parliamentary acts, a sack of flour (280 lb.) was presumed to produce 80 loaves {quartern or quarter-peck), the weight of which, within 48 hours after being baked, was to be 4 lb. 5^ oz. each. At the jjresent time fully 92 loaves, weighing 4 lb. each, are produced by the London bakers from one sack of flour, wdien honest weight is given; but as the latter is rarely the case, and the bread is frequently ‘ slack’ or ‘ under-baked,’ and thus contains more water than good bread ought to do, a much larger product is commcnly obtained. The dough loses about |th of its w'eiglit in baking, if in batches; but fully ^th, if baked in small loaves, and placed in the oven sepa- rately. The best bread contains about ^gths of its weight of added water ; and common bread, often much more than g:th. The proportion of water in the London bread has greatly in- creased during the last few years, owing to the introduction of the fraudulent plan of making the dough with rice jelly or moss jelly This is the reason why the bread of some bakers suffers such a loss of weight in a few hours after being taken from the oven. A 4 lb. loaf of bread purchased from a baker in Lambeth, after remaining on the sideboard of a sitting- room for 24 hours, was found to have lost no less than oz. by evaporation, and in tu'O days longer its interior cells were covered with green mould, and the whole was unfit for food. The bakers, aware of these facts, are particu- larly careful not to bake more bread than they can dispose of whilst ‘new,’ and are in the habit of refusing to weigh their bread before selling it, when it is more than 10 or 12 hours old, although they are liable to be ‘ fined’ for such a refusal. See Bread, Cakes, Farina, &c., also below. Baked Flour. Syn. Farina tosta, F. tri- Tici TOSTA, L. Prep. From wheat flour, carefully baked in a ‘ slack’ oven, until it ac- quires a pale-buff hue. Astringent; used to make food for infants troubled with diarrhoea. See Farina. Barley Flour (Prepared). Syn. Farina HORDEi PREPARATA, L. Prep. (Ph. Bor.) From barley flour, compressed into a tin cy- linder until the vessel is 2-3rds full, which is then suspended at the upper part of a still 2 See page 356.