G81 i GELEE—GEMS. free them from alkali, and a ’O then exposed to ’ the vapour o'i burning sulphur until they acquii’e ^ a sensibly acid reaction; they are now dissoh’ed : in water contained in earthen vessels heated to 150° Fahr., and the solution, after being strained, is put into ‘settling vessels,’ and | heated to 100° or 120° Fahr., for 8 or 9 hours; i at the end of this time the clear liquor is drawn I off, and poured on the ‘ cooling slabs’ to the depth of about ^ an inch. As soon as the jelly is cold, it is cut into pieces, and washed in water until perfectly free from acid. It is then redissolved in water at about 85°, the solution poured out on slabs as before, and when cold, it is cut up, and, lastly, dried on nets. According to another specification (Rattray’s Patent), glue-pieces are steeped in water until they begin to putrefy, then washed with water, drained, and put for 12 to 21 hours into water strongly soured with sulphurous acid; they are afterwards washed first with cold water, and { then in water at 120° Fahr., and are lastly converted into size by digestion for 24 hours! in water at 120° Fahr., the resulting so- i lution being filtered through bags of double | woollen-cloth. | Patent gelatines are often sold cut up in | imitation of ‘picked isinglass,’ to which, for ^ the preparation of jellies, soups, and blanc-; manges, they are not much inferior. | Rough Gelatine. Syn. Gelatine Brut, Fr. From the skulls of oxen, the spongy insides of\ the horns and ribs, and from several other soft I bony quarts (deprived of fat), by washing them J in water, digesting in an equal weight of; hydrochloric acid of 6° Baume, in cold weather, { and 4° or 5° in summer, for 10 days, then in 1 acid of only 1° Baume for 24 hours longer; j afterwards soaking and washing in successive j portions of cold water until all the acid is | washed out, adding an ounce of carbonate of \ soda to the last water. Used to make glue, &c. | A similar article is prepared from the bones of sheep. The pieces, after being treated as above, are steeped in boiling water for a few minutes, wiped dry, and shaken together in a bag to remove the internal pellicle; after which they are cut into sejuares or dice to disguise them, and finally dipped into a hot solution of gela- tine to varnish them. In this state the article is called ‘ gelatine brut fin.’ Used to make soup. It keeiJS better ‘ than the cakes of portable soup. When less carefully prepared, it is also used to make glue for fine work. See Bone Gelatine. GELEE (pour le Goitre). See Liniment OF Iodide of Potassium. GEMS. Syn. .Jewels; Gemm^, L. “Gems are precious stones, which, by their colour, I limpidity, lustre, brilliant polish, purity, and rarity, are sought after as objects of dress : and decoration. They form the principal part of the crown jewels of kings, not only from their beauty, but because they are sup- posed to comprise the greatest value in the smallest bulk; for a diamond, no larger than a nut, or an acorn, may be the representative sign of the territorial value of a whole country, the equivalent in commercial ex- change for a hundred fortunes, acquired by severe toils and privations.” “ Among these beautiful minerals mankind have agreed in forming a select class, to which the title of gems or jewels has been appropriated; while the term precious stone is more particularly given to substances which often occur under a more considerable volume than fne stones ever do. Diamonds, sapphires, emeralds, rubies, topazes, hyacinths, and chryso- BERYLS, are reckoned the most valuable gems ; —CRYSTALLINE QUARTZ, pellucid, opalesceiit, or of various hues, amethyst, lapis lazuli, MALACHITE, JASPER, AGATE, &c., are ranked in the much more numerous and inferior class of ornamental stones’* (lire.) Tests. The only tests applicable to gems and precious stones are the determination of their relative hardness and their specific gravily. By the first test, pastes or facti- tious GEMS are readily detected; but beyond this, owing to the difficulty of applying it, it ceases to be useful to persons unconnected with the trade. The determination of the specific gravity is, however, of more general application, as gems are generally dismounted when offered lor sale, or are so set that they may be removed from their ‘ mountings ’ without injury or inconvenience. See Spe- cific Gravity, and below. Obs. The relative hardness of the diffei'cnt substanees is measured by the power they possess of cutting or scratching the other substances having a smaller number attached to them in the table. Thus no gem but the DIAMOND (20) will scratch either the ruby (17) or the sapphire (16); and, for the same reason, a blue stone that will cut the emerald or the TOPAZ can be no other than the SAPPHIRE. The sp. gr. is ascertained in the usual manner, and will be found sufficiently indicative of the true nature of the stone when considered in connection with its other characteristics. The index of refraction is a certain key to the quality of the stone, in the hands of those who are capable of determining it, and may be applied to either ‘ mounted ’ or ‘unmounted’ gems. The most convenient ( instrument for the purpose is Wollaston’s < ‘REFLECTING GONIOMETER.’