950 OILS (EMPYEEUMATIC). 7 Ih.; mix in a clean copper boiler, beat the whole to 285° Fahr., and keep it at that tem- perature, with constant stirring, for at least one hour; then allow it to cool, in 24 hours decant the clear portion, and in 3 or 4 weeks more rack it for use. Used for varnishes. 5. (Liebig.) Sugar of lead, 1 lb., is dissolved in rain water, \ gall.; litharge, in fine powder, 1 lb., is then added, and the mixture is gently simmered until only a whitish sediment remains; levigated litharge, 1 lb., is next dif- fused through linseed oil, 2^ gall., and the mixture is gradually added to the lead solution, previously diluted with an equal bulk of water; the whole is now stirred together for some hours, with heat, and is, lastly, left to clear itself by exposure in a warm place. The lead solution which subsides from the oil may be used again for the same purpose, by dis- solving in it another lb. of litharge, as before. 6. (Wilks.) Into linseed oil, 236 gall., pour oil of vitriol, 6 or 7 lb., and stir the two to- gether for 3 hours j then add a mixture of fuller’s earth, 6 lb., and hot lime, 14 lb., and again stir for 3 hours; next put the whole into a copper, with an equal quantity of water, and boil for about 3 hours; lastly, withdraw the fire, and when the whole is cold, draw oflr the water, run the oil into any suitable vessel, and let it stand for a few weeks before using it. Patent. 7. (‘^Allg. Polytech. Zeitung.^') Binoxide of manganese (in coarse powder, but not dusty), 1 part; nut or linseed oil, 10 parts; mix, and keep the whole gently heated and frequently stirred for 24 to 36 hours, or until the oil begins to turn reddish. Recommended for zinc paint, but is equally adapted for other purposes for which boiled oil is employed. Obs. There is often a difficulty in obtaining the oils ‘ bright ’ after boiling or heating them with the lead solutions; the best way, on the small scale, is either to filter them through coarse woollen filtering paper, or to expose the bottle for some time to the sun or in a warm place. On the large scale, the finer oils of this kind are often filtered through Canton- fiannel bags. The litharge and sulphate of lead used in the above processes may be again rendered available for the same purpose, by washing them in hot water, to remove ad- hering mucilage. OILS (Empyreumatfic). Syn. Ole a empt- EELMATICA, L. The ‘empyreumatic oils’ of the old pharmaceutical writers were oily fluids obtained by the dry distillation of various substances, animal, vegetable, and mineral. But few of them are in use at the present day,i though formulae are given for them in some of the foreign pharmacopoeias. Two or three have useful applications in the arts, and it is therefore necessary that we should briefly 1 We do r.ot include the hydrocarbon oils obtained from coal, petroleum, and other bituminous substances, in this class. For notices of these useful products, see Oils (Mineral). describe their preparation. When the ingre- dients are of a liquid or pasty nature, or become so when heated, they are usually mixed with about twice their weight of sand, pow- dered glass, or other like substance, to divide them, and thus expose them more effectually to the action of the fire. Care must also be taken to provide a well-cooled receiver, which must be furnished with a tube to carry off the non-condensable gases liberated at the same time as the oil. The products of the first distillation are generally by recti- fication, either alone or along with water. In general, they require to be preserved from the light and air. The following are the principal substances belonging to this class;— Oil of Al'oes. Syn. Algetic oil; Oleum ALOETICUM, L. 1. From Socotrine or hepatic aloes distilled along with sand. 2. {Batavian—Cadet de Gassicourt.) Olive oil, 1 lb.; hepatic aloes and myrrh, of each, in powder, 2 oz.; olibanum, \ oz.; distil in a sand bath, from a stoneware retort. Used as an external vermifuge for children; a portion is rubbed 2 or 3 times a day over the um- bilical regions. Oil of Am'ber. Syn. Oleum succini, L, From coarse pieces of amber, distilled in an iron retort, either alone or reduced to powder and mixed with sand. The oil is separated from the fetid liquor and succinic acid which passes over, and rectified along with about 6 times its volume of water, by a gentle heat. It then forms ‘ eectified oil of ambes ’ (oleum succini—Ph. L. 1836, o. s. eecti- FICATUM—Ph. D. 1826, O. S. PUEISSIMUM— Ph. E. 1841). Prod. 20g. Prop., S^c, It has a pale yellow colour, a strong, ungrateful odour, and a hot, acrid taste; heat and air blacken and thicken it; it boils at 186° Fahr. Sp. gr. *758 at 75° Fahr. It is antispasmodic, rubefacient, and stimulant. Dose. 5 to 12 drops, made into an emulsion with mucilage; in hysteria, epilepsy, and convulsive affections. Externally, as a friction, either alone or combined with lauda- num or sweet oil, in rheumatism, tic dou- loureux, hooping-cough, &c. See Musk (Fac- titious). An'imal Oil. 1. (Empyreumatic or Fetid; Oil of haetshoen, Dippel’s o. ; Oleum AKIMALE EMPYEEUMATICUM, O. COENU CEEVI, 0. Dippelii, L.) Chiefly obtained as a se- condary product in the manufacture of bone- black. Fetid and dark coloured. Used chiefly to make lampblack. 2. (Ethereal; Rectified oil of haets- HOEN; Oleum animale stheeium, 0. coenu CEEVI EECTIFICATUM, LoCO OLEI ANIMALIS Dippelii, L.)—a. A finer kind of animal oil, made by slowly distilling oil of hartshorn, and collecting only the first portion that comes over. Pale and limpid. Exposure to light discolours it. b. (Ph. Bor.) Fetid animal oil distilled in