prefacp:. VI any formula or process been admitted into this work, unless it rested on some well-known fact of science, had been sanctioned by usage, or came recommended by some respectable authority. The settlement of doubtful or disputed points has often occupied me a greater number of hours, and not unfrequently a greater number of days, than that of the lines of letter-press which convey the results to the public. In all cases precedence has been given to the standard formulae of our national pharmacopoeias, and to those processes which long experience, or well-conducted experiments, have shown to be the most successful, profitable, and trustworthy. In general, the sources of information have been indicated, for the purpose of enabling the reader to form a better estimation of their value. Wherever this is not the case, in reference to borrowed formulae and data, the omission has arisen from the impossibility of determining to whom the merit is justly due. I have endeavoured, as much as possible, in the present work, to avoid confusion of the medical weights with those commonly used in trade and commerce; an attempt which, so far as I am aware, has not been successfully carried out in any other quarter. For this purpose I determined to entirely abandon the usual arbitrary signs or characters employed to represent the divisions of the apothecaries’ pound, and to distinguish the two weights from each other, by simply printing, in different type, the plain English names and abbreviations representing their several denominations. The medical signs for the imperial gallon and its subdivisions have also been abandoned for their common English names. It would have afibrded me pleasure to have reduced all the quantities to one uniform standard, had it been prac- ticable, or, in all cases, advisable. Under the names of most of the leading diseases that could be profitably noticed in the present work, such explanations and directions have been given as accord with the prevailing opinions and practice of the faculty at the present day. These, when judiciously applied, will prove invaluable to emigrants, travellers, voyagers, and other parties beyond the reach of legitimate medical assistance; and, under opposite circumstances, ■will, in general, enable those who have the care of the sick the better to second and carry out the instructions and efforts of the physician for the benefit of their charge. Here, however, it may be useful to repeat the cautions given in other parts of this volume, as to the impropriety of unnecessarily meddling with the healing art, or neglecting a prompt application to a duly qualified practitioner, in all cases demanding either medical or surgical aid. It is an indubitable fact, that the best efi’orts of the inexperienced and uninitiated in the mysteries of medical science must be alw^ays enormously behind those of parties whose whole lives and study have been devoted to the subject. The nature of a condensed alphabetical arrangement not permitting