GUAIACUM—GUANO. 714 alkalies forming alkaline (juaiacates (gtjaiactjm soaps); air and light turn it green; gluten, mucilage of gum arabic, &c., turn it blue ; nitric acid and chlorine turn it successively green, blue, and brown; tincture of guaiacine, added to hydrocyanic acid and sulphate of copper, produces an intense blue colour. (Pagenstecher.) A delicate PHOToasAPHic PAPER may be formed by washing unsized paper with an alcoholic solution of guaiacum resin, and afterwards with one of neutral acetate of lead. (Johnston.) GUA'IACUM. Syn. Gtjaiac, Gum gifaia.cum, Guaiacum resin ; Guaiacum (Ph. L.), Guai- ACi RESINA, L. The “resin prepared by means of fire from the w’ood of Guaiacum officinale.’’ (Ph. L.) This substance is often adulterated. When pure, its “ fresh fracture is red, slowly passing to green / the tincture slowly strikes a lively blue colour on the inner surface of a thin paring of raw potato.’’ (Ph. E.) Adulteration with resin may he generally discovered by the odour evolved when the guaicum is heated. An alcoholic tincture of guaiacum, rendered milky with water, recovers its transparency on the addition of caustic potassa in excess; hut this is not the case when resin is present. Guaiacum is stimulant, sudorific, and altera- tive. Dose. 10 to 20 gr., either in powder or pills; in chronic rheumatism, gout, obstinate chronic skin diseases, scrofula, syphilis, &c. It forms the active ingredient of the once cele- brated ‘ Chelsea pensioner,’ and the ‘ gout SPECiPic’ of Mr. Emerigon. The latter was made by digesting 2 oz. of guaiacum resin in 48 fi. oz. of rum, for 7 or 8 days. The dose of this was a table-spoonful every morning, fasting, for a twelvemonth. Its other properties are similar to those of GUAIACIN, but are less marked. Sp. gr. 1-20 to 1*22. Guaiacum Wood. Syn. Lignum viTiE, Guaiaci lignum (Ph. L.), L. The wood of Guaiacum officinale. This is employed under the form of shavings, raspings, and sawdust, in decoctions only. See Decoction and Bal- sam. GUAN'IDINE. A base prepared from guanine by treating that substance with hydrochloric acid and chlorate of potassa. The solution thus obtained is evaporated until the para- BANIC ACID, which is One of the products of the reaction, crystallizes out; the ‘ mother liquid’ is then treated with a mixture of alcohol and ether, which, separated from the residue, yields, on evaporation, crude hydro- chlorate op guanidine. This is then con- verted into a sulphate by digestion with sul- phate of silver, and finally, the base is set free by the addition of baryta water. GUANINE. A substance closely correspond- ing to XANTHINE found in guano. Prep. Guano is boiled with water and hydrate of lime until a portion of the liquid, when filtered, appears but slightly coloured; the whole is then filtered, and the filtrate saturated with acetic acid, when the guanine mixed with uric acid is precipitated. It \'s, puri- fied by solution in hydrochloric acid and pre- cipitation by ammonia. GUA'NO. Syn. Huanho, Peruv. This sub- stance, now so extensively used in agriculture, is the partially decomposed excrement of cer- tain aquatic birds, chiefly the common penguin, which congregate in countless numbers on the barren and uninhabited islets and rocks on the western coasts of South America and the coast of Africa. It abounds in ammonia and the phosphates, and is undoubtedly the richest natural manure known. Under judi- cious application, the increase of the crops of grain, turnips, potatoes, and grass, consequent upon its use, is said to be about 33g. “ Guano is peculiarly adapted to horticultural and flori- cultural improvement, by its relative cleanli- ness and facility of application.” (Ure.) “ According to Denham Smith,^ South Ame- rican guano, as imported, presents itself in three distinct states, the three varieties being not unfrequently mixed together in the same bag; the first variety is damp and pulverulent; the second exists as large concretions, present- ing various aspects when broken; the third is heavy and crystalline, and is termed ‘ stone’ by the labourers. These three varieties differ widely in composition, as the following com- prehensive analysis, by Smith, will show :— Soluble in W'ater. A I. Pulvenilent. II. Concrete. in. ^ Saline. Water ...*.. 222-00 250-00 97-00 Muriate of ammonia .... 25-50 — 30-30 Sulphate of potash 80-00 — — ,, soda ..... traces 258-44 191-77 Oxalate of ammonia .... 74-00 03-90 — ,, soda — — 105-63 Phosphate of ammonia .... 6330 61-24 — potash .... — 77-32 49-47 1 ,, soda 1-20 — 3 60 Chloride of sodium ..... — 29-22 286-31 I ,, potasiiium .... — — 41-63 1 " Troc. of the Chem. Socf vol. ii.