METAGALLIC ACID-METANTIMONIC ACID. 909 quicklime, 8 parts, at a heat of about 285° and adding water to the product, when the inetacetone separates. It is insoluble in water, and boils at 212° Fahr. See Peopionic Acid. METAGAL'LIC ACID. Obtained by heating dry gallic acid, by a quick fire, to about 480° Fahr., or until it froths, melts, and becomes black and solid, then dissolving the residuum in an alkali, filtering, and precipitating by an ! acid. An insoluble, black powder. ! MET'AL. .Syn. Metallijm, L. See Metals. ^ METAL'DEilYDE. The colourless, trans-^ parent, prismatic crystals that form in aide- \ hyde when kept at ordinary temperatures. It j is soluble in alcohol and ether, insoluble in waiter, and sublimes, w'ithout fusion, at a tern-! perature a little above 212° Fahr. METAL'LICA. [L.] Preparations of the! metals. One of the divisions of the Ph. L. | METAL'LIC TREES. See Vegetation | (Metallic). METAL'LO-CHROMES. A name given by Nobili to extremely thin films of jteroxide of lead deposited by electrolytic action upon plates of polished steel, so as to produce an iridescent play of colours. The effect is often very beautiful. MET'ALLOIDS. A name sometimes applied to the NON-METALLIC ELEMENTS. METAL'LURGY. “The art of extracting metals frtjm their ores, and adapting them to various processes of manufacture.” (Percy.) “Notwithstanding the striking analogy which exists between common chemical and metallurgic operations, since both are em- r. ployed to insulate certain bodies from each ^ other, there are essential differences w^hich should be carefully noted. In the first place, the quantity of materials being always very great in metallurgy, requires corresponding adaptations of apparatus, and often produces peculiar phenomena; in the second place, the agents to be employed for treating great masses must be selected with a view to economy, as well as chemical action. In analytical chemis- try, the main object being exactness of result and purity of product, little attention is be- sto\Ced upon the value of the reagents, on account of the small quantity required for any particular process. But in smelting metals upon the great scale, profit being the sole object, cheap materials and easy operations are alone admissible.” ^ operations of metallurgy under this head. These are—digging, picking or sorting, stamp- ing or crushing, and washing, included under the general term, ‘dressing ores —roasting or calcination, which is either performed with the fuel in contact w’ith the ore, or in rever- beratory furnaces; and the liquation or reduc- tion to the reguline form. The application of these processes is noticed under the leading metals. Those who desire to study the sub- ject minutely are referred to the treatises of Dr. Percy, liobert Hunt, Karsten, and Le Play. MET'ALS. Syn. Metalla, L. Metals are elementary bodies, which are generally dis- tinguished by their lustre and power of con- ducting heat and electricity. When their so- lutions are electrolysed, the metals alw’ays appear at the electro-negative surface, and are hence termed electro-positive elements. Formerly, when science w^as much less ad- vanced than at present, the metals constituted a well-defined class. The properties which were regarded as specially characteristic were physical, and w^ere not founded on chemical relations ; thus, lustre and high specific gravity were considered to be essential characters of all metals. But we are now acquainted with metals which have a lower specific gravity than Avater (lithium, sodium, &c.), and with non-inetallic elements which present a strong metallic lustre (carbon in the state of 'gra- phite,’ crystallized silicon). It will therefore be seen that the term ' metal ’ is rather conven- tional than strictly scientific. By far the greater number of elementary bodies at present known are metals. Their physical characters and leading chemical properties are noticed under each of them in its alphabetical place. The following table exhibits some useful par- ticulars :— Table of some of the properties of some of the metals. Names arrans*’*! in tlie order of tlieir Ductility. j Malleability. Gold. 1 Gold. Silver. j Silver. Platinum. Copper. Iron. Tin. Nickel. Platinum. Copper. Lead. Zinc. Zinc. Tin. Iron. i Lead. Nickel. ' Names arranged in the order of their j ■s 1 Power of conducting Power of conducting Heat. Electincity. Silver. Silver. ! Copper. Copper. 1 Gold. Gold. Tin. Zinc. 1 Iron. Iron. Lead. Tin. Bismuth. Lead. Antimony. Bismuth. edit. “ Vrt's Diet, of Arts, Munufactures, and Mines,” Itli METANTIMONTC acid. The name given by M. Fremy to that variety of antimonic