753 ILLUTATTON—IMPLEMENTS. !l 'i i It 1 of a gust of wind upon the flaiung gas-jets of a butcher’s shop; the plentiful supply of air causes complete combustion, and so converts the bright white flames into dull blue streaks of fire. Wlien the supply of air is insufficient to cause the combustion of the newly formed solid carbon at the instant of its development, and whilst it is in an incandescent state, the flame becomes red and smoky, and unburnt sooty particles are thrown off. The same occurs Avhen the temperature of any portion of the hydrogen is reduced below that in- tensity required for the combustion of the newly separated charcoal. Solid bodies, as tallow, oils, and fats, which burn with flame, are converted into the state of gas by the heat required to kindle them, and it is this gaseous matter which suffers combustion, and not the substance which produces it. The relative value of the ordinary illmni- naling agents has been accurately determined by Dr. Frankland. According to his experi- ments, the quantities of various substances re- quired to give the same amount of light as w’ould be obtained from 1 gallon of Young’s * Paraffin oil’ are as follows :— Young’s Paraffin oil . 1-00 gall. American rock oiP . 1-26 „ ! Paraffin candles . 18-6 lbs. Sperm . 22-9 „ Wax . 26-4 „ Stearic . . 27-6 „ Composite Tallow . . 29-3 „ . 39-0 „ 1 The following table exhibits the comparative j cost of the light of 20 sperm candles, each burning 10 hours at the rate of 120 gr. per hour; also the amount of carbonic acid pro- duced and heat evolved per hour, in obtaining this quantity of light:— Cost. 5. d. Wax . . . 7 2^ Spermaceti . 6 8 Paraffin candles 3 10 Tallow ... 2 8 Rock oil . . 0 7i Paraffin oil .06 Coal gas ..04^ Cannel gas ..03 Cai’b. acid Units of per liour in heat cub. feet, per hour. J... 8-3 ... 82 ... 6-7 ... 66 ...10-1 ...100 j... 30 ... 29 ... 5-0 ... 47 ... 40 ... 32 These figures prove that coal gas and the MiNEEAL OILS are the cheapest and best il- luminating agents, producing the largest amount of light with the least development of heat. The light emitted by incandescent lime (Deummoxd light, hydro-oxygen l., lime L., OXYHYDROGEN L.) is intensely brilliant, and is often made use of to enable workmen to continue operations at night. It is obtained by directing the flame produced by the com- bustion of a mixture of hydrogen (or coal gas) and oxygen upon a small cylinder of lime. In the improved form of this light the lime is protected from crumbling by a cage of plati- num wdre, and is caused to rotate slowly by means of clockwmrk, so as constantly to expose a fresh surface to the flame. When reflected from a ‘parabolic mirror’ in a pencil of parallel rays, the Drummond light has been recognised during daylight at a distance of 108 miles. The lime light produced with coal gas and oxygen is used for the magic lantern and GAS MICROSCOPE. Another powerful illuminator is the elec- tric LIGHT. It is produced by the passage of a strong current of voltaic electricity between two pencils of hard charcoal or coJee, such as that deposited in the retorts of gas-works. The electric light has been successfully ap- plied to lighthouse illumination. It is too in- tense, and its cost is too great, for its appli- cation to domestic purposes. See Candles, Flame, Gas, Photometry, &c. ILLUTA'TION. See Bath (Mud). IMAG-INA'TION. The influence of the ima- gination, both in the production and cure of disease, has been long admitted by medical practitioners. It is probably the most power- ful therapeutic agent known. “ Extraor- dinary cures have been ascribed to inert and useless means, when, in fact, they were re- ferable to the influence of the imagination.’ ’ (Dr. Pereira.) IMPE'RIAL. Syn. Potus imperialis, Ptisana I., L. Prep. 1. Cream of tartar, i oz.; 1 lemon, sliced; lump sugar, 2 oz.; boiling water, 1 quart; infuse, with occasional stirring until cold, then pour off the clear por- tion for use. 2. A lemon, sliced; sugar, 1 oz.; boiling water, 1 pint. 3. Yellow rind and juice of lemon; citric acid, 1 dr.; sugar, 2| oz.; hot water (which has been boiled), 1 quart; as No. 1. Refri- gerant and slightly diuretic.» Used as a com- mon drink in fevers, dropsy, &c., and as a summer beverage. IMPETI'GO. See Eruptions and Tet- ters. IM'PLEMENTS (Agricultural). “Almost all the operations of agriculture may be per- formed by the plough, the harrow, the scythe, and the flail; and these are the sole imple- ments in the primitive agriculture of all coun- tries. With the progress of improvement, many other implements (and machines) have been introduced, the more remarkable of which are the drill plough, the horse IIOE, the WINNOWING MACHINE, the THRESH- ING MACHINE, the HAY-MAKING MACHINE, and the reaping machine. The object of all these implements and machines is to abridge human labour, and to perform the different operations to which they are applied with a greater degree of rapidity, and in a more per- ^ Acknowledged to te nu inferior sample.