AMMONIA. 147 i ,5 if !f' ■if r# 4 i.vhicli would materially lessen the purity and jieauty of thie product. The unsublimed por- lion in the ‘pots’ forms a conical mass, which is technically called the ‘ yol/c.’ This is shewn I n the second engr. (see below), in which the j atest improvements in the form of the suh- |.iming apparatus are also exhibited. The ‘sublimation’ having been carried to a sufficient extent, the fires are allowed to ‘ die out.’ The ‘domes,’ after cooling, are lifted off, and the attached hemispherical cakes or ‘ hells’ of SAL-AMMOXIA Or HYDEOCHLOEATE OF A-MMONIA at once removed. These vary from 2 to 5 inches in thickness, and from 45 or 50 lb. to 1000 lb., and upwards, in weight, according to the size of the ‘suhlimers’ in which they have been produced. They are generally nearly pure, except in the outer part which has been in contact with the metal. From the ‘ subliming-house’ they are taken to the ‘store’ or ‘packing-house’, and lafter having been scraped, to remove the dis- jcoloured portion before alluded to, are either ipreserved entire, or are broken up into con- ivenient pieces, which are then packed in casks jor barrels, and in either state are ready for |the marked When ‘sulphuric acid*^ is used to xeu- TEALISE the ammoniacal liquor, the process is generally, for the most part, the same as when ‘hydrochloric acid’ is employed; but here the ‘brown salt’ obtained by the crystallisation, and subsequent desiccation, is crude selphate of AMMONIA, instead of the ‘ hydrochlorate.’ It is intimately mixed with about an equal weight of chloride of sodium (common salt) before being put into the ‘ suhlimers.’ In some cases, particularly where the ‘ am- moniacal liquor ’ is rich in carbonate of am- monia, gypsum is employed as a source of sul- phuric acid. (See below.) Another method is to convert the ‘ solution ’ of the ‘ crude sulphate’ into a ‘ solution’ of the ‘ hydrochlorate ’, during the process, by the addition of chloride of sodium. Both these last methods are described below. 2. From bone-liquoe, &c. —The ‘ ammo- 1 Sp. gr. 1-33 to 1-38. 2 Tlmt employed in England is cliiefly obtained, as already mentioned, from the mannfachu-ers of ‘ bone- black’ or ‘animal charcoal’; but, on the Continent, the liquor obtained by a like destructive distillation of various ‘ animal offals’ (blood, flesh, horn, hoofs, woollen ra^s and waste, hair, scrapings of hides, leather cuttings, sc.) is employed for the same purpose. The preparatory pro- niacal liquor ’ technically called ‘ bone-liquor ’ or hone-spirit ’, and formerly known under the name of ‘ spirit of hartshorn ’, is essentially a solution of carbonate of ammonia more or less contaminated with volatile empyreumatic oil. Its conversion into sal ammoniac may he easily effected by saturating it with hydrochloric acid, evaporating the resulting ‘neutral solution’ in lead or iron boilers until a pellicle begins to form, then pumping or ‘running off’ the hot liquors into the ‘ crystallisers’, and, lastly, draining and drying the crystals. The salt thus obtained may be purified either by sublimation, or by recrystallisation. The whole series of pro- cesses closely resemble those already described, except in being less troublesome, owing to the absence of the tarry and other foreign matters which impede and complicate them when gas- liquor is employed. Another method adopted, particularly on the Continent, and one equally applicable to any ‘ crude ammoniacal liquor ’ rich in free am- monia or its carbonates, is to employ sulphate of lime as the source of ‘ sulphuric acid ’ to neutralise the alkali. For this purpose the ‘ ammoniacal liquor ’ is passed through a series of three or four covered wooden filters lined with lead, each containing a layer of crushed gypsum to the depth of 3 or 4 inches. These filters are usually set on ‘ stages ’ one above another, and each communicates with a cis- tern placed beneath it by means of a leaden pipe furnished with a stop-cock. This last is not opened until the liquor has remained some little time in the filter; and a pump throws back once, or oftener, upon each filter, what has already passed through it, before it is al- lowed to run into the next lower one. The ‘ liquor’ in each filter is not allowed to stand higher than from 2 to 3 inches above the sur- face of the gypsum; and the low’est or last filter is supplied with fresh gypsum at each se= parate charge of fresh liquor. A little water is lastly passed through the filters to wash out the portion of ammoniacal liquor absorbed or re- tained by the filtering media. In this way, the ‘ gypsum ’ of the filters is converted into chalk at the expense of the carbonate of am- monia in the solution ; whilst the ‘ammonia’ of the latter assumes the sulphuric acid of the gypsum, and is changed into carbonate of am- monia, which, with some/ree ammonia, is found in the filtrate. Sulphuric acid is next added to the ‘filtered liquor’,to completely ‘neutralise? the free and carbonated alkali still existing in it; after which it is evaporated in a leaden boiler, with frequent skimming to remove float- ing oil, until of the sp. gr. I’lGO. Chloride of sodium (sea-salt), in sufficient quantity to con- vert all the ‘ sulphate of ammonia ’ in the cess by wliich this liquor is obtained is essentially the same in each case; except that with ‘ animal oflal’ the temperature should not exceed a red-brotvn heat, in order that the resxilting charcoal may afterwards serve to make ferrocyanide of potassium and Prussian blue. TJiese liquors have usually a density ranging between 8° and 9" Baume (Ure; = sp. gr. 1050 to 1063).