215 ARSENIOUS ACID. I I in a pulverulent state, forming the ^flowers of arsenic* or ‘rough white arsenic* of the I smelters (the giftmehl or poison-flour of the Germans). The crude article obtained in this way is purified by re-sublimation in suitable I iron-pots or other iron-vessels, before it is fit for ; sale. It then forms asemi-transparent vitreous j cake, which gradually becomes opaque, and of I snowy whiteness, by exposure to the air, and at I length acquires a more or less pulverulent state ' on the surface. Prep. The white arsenic of commerce (in semivitreous lumps) is usually suffi(5iently pure for all medicinal and other ordinary purposes, I and having been twice sublimed, is necessarily ' as pure as mere sublimation can make it. It has, however, been thought advisable by some to submit it to further preparation:— 1. Acidum aesenio'sum Ph. D.: — Commercial white arsenic (any convenient j quantity) is to be placed in a Florence-flask, j the neck of which is inserted in that of a I second flask of larger size inverted over it, i and a regulated heat applied by suspending it i beneath a semicircular hood of sheet-iron, a few inches above a small charcoal-fire, until I the sublimation is complete. The process is I to be conducted under a flue with a strong [draught, to carry off any fumes which may i escape condensation. j 2. PllEPAEED WHITE-AESENIC; A. A. PE^- paea'tum :—By levigation and elutriation, as I directed for tersulphuret of antimony. ! Comp. Arsenic, 75f§; Oxygen, 24:|^. ! Prop. Crystals (obtained by careful sub- Ilimation, or by cooling a boiling aqueous solution), usually transparent, regular octa- hedrons (see fig. 1), but sometimes, though 1 Irarely, assume the form of tetrahedrons l(see fig. 2). When prepared on the large [scale, it forms large, glassy, colourless or [yellowish white, transparent or semi-trans- [parent cakes or porcelain-like masses (vit'- IKEOUS AESENIOUS ACID, GLA'CIAL A. A.), which Isoon become opaque on their exterior, owing ’to the absorption of a minute quantity of [atmospheric water (Kruger; R. Phillips), and [often friable and pulverulent; odourless; vo- latilises at 380° Fahr.; fames, odourless, bnless carbonaceous organic matter be present, 'when they smell strongly of garlic; heated [under pressure it liquefies and forms a trans- parent glass; taste, faintly sweetish, with a slight acidity and astringency, not perceived until some minutes after being swallowed (hence its dangerous character as a poison); soluble—opaque variety, in 80 parts of water at 59° Fahr. (Guibourt), and 7'72 parts of boil- ing water (Guibourt; 13 parts—Ure); but on cooling to 60°, only about ^rd of this quantity continues in solution—transparent variety, soluble in 103 parts of water at 59°, and 9‘3 parts of boiling water (Guibourt); soluble in alcohol, syrups, oils, and spirits, and freely so in alkaline lyes and hydrochloric acid; organic matter generally impedes its solution; solu- tions redden litmus; heated with organic matter it is reduced to the metallic state; with the bases it forms AE'senites. Sp. gr., 3*5 (lowest opaque var.) to 3*8 (highest transp. var.). Pur. It is “entirely sublimed by heat.” (Ph. E.) Five grains boiled in 1 oz. of pure water should dissolve, without leaving any residue. “ If 100 gr. be digested in dilute hydrochloric acid, and, when the liquid has cooled, hydro- sulphuric acid be added, 124 gr. of tersul- phuret of arsenic are precipitated.” (Ph. L.) The arsenious acid of the shops is frequently adulterated with plaster of Paris, sulphate of baryta, ground bone-ash, or white sand, and is then totally unfit for the purposes to which it is generally applied. To avoid this fraud, it should he purchased in the lump, in which state it is generally nearly pure. Tests, detec., S^c. Owing to the import- ance of the subject, and for convenience and facility of reference, the leading tests for arsenious acid, with their respective values and susceptibility, are noticed alphabetically below; to which a few general remarks on their appli- cation, under the various circumstances that occur to the chemist and toxicologist, are ap- pended. When not otherwise stated, it is to be understood that they are to be applied to pure, or nearly pure and colourless solutions of arsenious acid or the arsenites. 1. Acetate of Potassa; Alkarsine Test. A mixture of the suspected substance and ace- tate of potassa, submitted to dry distillation, gives, when arsenic is present, a distillate con- taining ‘Cadet’sfuming liquor^ {alkarsine,oxide of kadodyle), the horrible odour of which can- not be mistaken for anything else. Susc. 2. Ammonio-acetate of Copper. A weak so- lution of this test gives a characteristic grass- green, or yellowish-green, precipitate of ‘arsenite of copper ’ {Scheele's green) in solutions con- taining free acid; and which, after being washed, is soluble both in nitric acid and am- monia, and is turned brownish-red by sulphu- retted hydrogen water, blood-red by ferrocy- anide of potassium, and yellow by nitrate of silver. Susc. Trnjocro (Ure). 3. Ammonio-sulphate of Copper. Reaction resembles that of the ammonio-acetate; but it is less delicate. Susc. 75,5^5 5 3,(555 (Devergie). Sulphate of copper acts in the same way with neutral solutions. 4. Ammonio-nitrate of silver ; Hume's Test. A solution of this test gives a well-marked yellow precipitate of ‘ arsenite of silver ’ in solutions containing free acid; and which is soluble in liquid ammonia, in dilute nitric acid, and in solution of nitrate of ammonia.