I MERCURY. 899 I resembles calomel, in both its appearance and I properties. Dose. 1 to 5 gr. I 2. Protobro'mide of Mercury. Syn. Mee- CURIC BROMIDE, BiBROMIDE OF MEECURYf, I Perbromide of M.f; Hydrargtei BIBRO- I MIDUM, L. Prep. 1. By dissolving precipi- j tated peroxide of mercury in hydrohromic acid. j —2. Dibromide of mercury, 9 parts; mercury, ! 5 parts; mix, and sublime.—3. (Magendie.) Bromine and mercury, equal parts; mix, and sublime. Soluble. It resembles the i)rot- iodide (‘ biniodide’ of the Pharmacopoeias) in ! its action. Dose, to ^ gr. Chlo'h'ides of Mercuiy. With chlorine, I mercury forms two important compounds, the I ‘subchloride’ and ‘protochloride,’ known re- I spectively as ‘calomel’ and ‘corrosive sub- I limate’:— 1. Subchlo'Yide of Mercury. Syn. Mercu- rous CHLORIDE, Chloride of mercury, Peo- TOCHLORIDE OF M.f, CALOMEL ; HydRARGYEI ! CHLORIDUM (Ph. L.), H. C. MITE (Ph. U. S.), Calomelas (Ph. E. & B.), L. This substance | is one of the best known, and probably the most valuable, of all the mercurials. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Mercury, 2 lb.; sulphuric acid, 214 fl. oz.; mix, boil to dryness (in a cast-iron vessel), and v'hen the resulting ‘ bi- persulphate’ has cooled, add of mercury, 2 lb., and triturate the ingredients in an earthen- ! ware mortar until they are well mixed; then ! add of chloride of sodium, 1^ lb., and again I triturate until the globules are no longer visible; next sublime the mixture, reduce the 1 sublimate to the finest possible powder, dili- ‘ gently wash it with boiling distilled water, and ! i dry it. Prod. 117 to 118g of the weight of mercury employed. 2. (Ph. E.) Mercury, 4 oz., is dissolved in a mixture of oil of vitriol, 2 fl. oz. 3 fl. dr., and nitric acid, ^ fl. oz., by the aid of heat; when I cold, mercury, 4 oz., is added, and the remainder 1 of the process is conducted as before. I 3. (Calomelas sublimatum — Ph. D.) I ‘ Persulphate of mercury ’ (sulphate of the I protoxide), 10 parts; mercury, 7 parts; dry I chloride of sodium, 5 parts; triturate, &c., as I before, and afterwards resublime it into a large ! chamber or receiver. I 4. (Apothecaries’ Hall.) Quicksilver, 50 lb., j : and oil of vitriol, 70 lb., are boiled to dryness in a cast-iron vessel; of the dry salt, 62 lb. | arc triturated with quicksilver, 40^ lb., until | i the globules are extinguished, when common salt, 34 lb., is added, and after tliorough admix- ^ i ture, the whole is sublimed, &c., as before. ! Prod. 96 to 100 lb. 5. (Jewel’s Patent.) The receiver, which is j capacious, is filled with steam, so that the calomel vapour is condensed in it in a state of extremely minute division. The engr. repre- I sents the apparatus now usually employed I when this plan is adopted. The product is I extremely white, and of the finest quality. It , is sometimes called ‘hydrosublimed calo- I mel’ and ‘ hydrosublimate of mercury.’ The ‘FLOWERS OF CALOMEL,’ of old pharmacy, were prepared in a nearly similar manner. (t~^ c X 1- '"M / \ * /' "d'' a. Furnace. b. An cartlienware retort, having a short and wide neck, containing the ingredients for making calomel. c. An earthen receiver, having three tuhulatures. d. A vessel containing water. e. A stcani-hoilcr. 6. (Soubeiran.) The crude calomel mixture is heated in an earthen tube in a furnace, and a current of air is directed uninterruptedly into the tube by means of a small ventilator. This sweeps away, as it were, the vapours of calomel, and in a straight tube will carry them a distance of 60 feet, to avoid which the end of the recipient is immersed in water, by which means the calomel is moistened and falls down. This plan, slightly modified, is now extensively adopted in this country. 7. (Precipitated calomel; Calomelas pralCipitatum, L.) Digest pure quicksilver, 9 parts, in nitric acid (sp. gr. 1-20 to 1’25), 8 parts, until no more metal will dissolve, apply- ing heat as the eftervescence ceases; then mix the hot liquid quickly with a boiling solution of common salt, 8 parts, dissolved in water (slightly acidulated with hydrochloric acid), 64 parts; lastly, well Avash the precipitate in boiling dis- tilled water, and dry it. The product, when the process is skilfully managed, is perfectly white and pure. Prop. A heavy, white, tasteless powder; insoluble in water, alcohol, and cold dilute nitric acid; volatilizes at a temperature below redness, and yields a Avhite or yellowish-white sublimate; hot nitric acid oxidizes and dissolves it; alkalies and their carbonates,and lime water, decompose it, with the production of the black oxide; caustic ammonia converts it into a dark slate-gi*ay coloured powder (black precipi- tate — Kane). Sp. gr. 7‘14 (Boullay ; 7'156 —Pelouzc & Fremy; 7*176—Ure). Pur. Calomel is frequently contaminated with small quantities of corrosive sublimate, which may be detected by digesting a little in alcohol, decanting the clear portion, and test- ing it with a drop or two of liquor of potassa, when a reddish precipitate will be formed if any protochloride be present. “ It is pulveru- lent, whitish, and sublimes (entirely) by heat. It becomes black on the addition of potassa, then, heat being applied, it runs into globules of mercury. Neither nitrate of silver, lime water, nor sulphuretted hydi’ogen, being added to the w'ater in which it has been Avashed or