583 ESSENCE. I I Quality resembles No. 2, a (nearly). We are in the habit of applying the method developed in the last two formulae to the preparation of i the essences of several other substances, the ' active principles of which are not volatile at a low temperature. I Essence of Grape. Prep. From grape oil, as ESSENCE OF ALMONDS. It is used to flavour I brandy and wines. See Oil (Volatile). ' Essence of Guaiac'um. Syn. Fluid exteact ! OF GUAIACUM; EsSENTIA GUAIACI, ExtEAC- ! TUM GUAIACI FLUiDUM, L. Prep. Eecent guaiacum shavings, from which the dust has I been sifted, 3 cwt., are exhausted by coction in I water, as in the preparation of an extract, using i as little of that fluid as is absolutely necessary ; ‘ the decoction is evaporated to exactly If gall.; it is next stirred until cold, to prevent the de- I posit of resinous matter, when it is put into a I bottle, and spirit of wine, 5 pints, is added; the whole is then repeatedly agitated for a week, after which it is allowed to settle for 7 I or 8 days, and the clear portion is decanted ! into another bottle. I Ohs. This preparation is frequently sub- stituted for guaiacum shavings in the prepara- ! tion of compound decoction of sarsaparilla. 1 pint of this essence is considered equivalent to 19 lb. of guaiacum in substance. See De- coction OF Saesapaeilla (Comp.). I Essence for the Handk.erchief. See Essentia 1 Odoeata, etc. I Essence for the Headache. Syn. Cephalic I ESSENCE, EmBEOCATION OF AMMONIA, De. ; Hawkins’ embeocation, Waed’s e., Waed’s i ESSENCE FOE THE HEADACHE; EmBEOCATIO AMMONI-E, LiNIMENTUM A.,' EsSENTIA CE- PHALiCA, L. Prep. 1. Oil of lavender I (Mitcham), 1 dr.; camphor, 1 oz.; liquor of i ammonia, 4 oz. ; rectified spirit, 1 pint; dissolve. Very fragrant and powerful, i 2. (Beasley.) Spirit of camphor, 2 lb.; : strong water of ammonia, 4 oz.; essence of i lemon, \ oz. 2. (Redwood.) Camphor and liquor of am- ' monia, of each, 2 oz,; oil of lavender, 4 dr.; I rectified spirit, 14 oz. Very fragrant. Stimu- I lant and rubefacient. Used as a counter- I irritant lotion in local pains, as headache, EAEACHE, COLIC, &c. Compound camphor liniment is usually sold for it. See Lini- ment. Essence of Henbane. Sijn. Essentia hy- ; OSCYAMI, L. See Essence (Anodyne), No. 2. I Essence of Hop. Syn. Essentia lupuli, ! E, HUMULi, Tinctuea lupuli concenteata, i L. Prep. 1. New hops (rubbed small), 26^ oz. ; ! proof spirit, 1 quart; digest 24 hours, then I distil over (quickly) 1 pint, and set the distil- j late (spiritus lupuli) aside in a corked bottle; ' to the residuum add water, 1 pint; boil 15 I minutes, cool, express the liquor, strain, and ; evaporate it as quickly as possible to dryness by the heat of a water bath, powder the resi- , duum, and add it to the distilled spirit; digest ! a week, and filter. 2. LupuUnic grains (yellow powder or lupulin of the strobiles), 5 oz. ; rectified spirit, 1 pint; digest 10 days ; express, and filter. Both the above are powerfully bitter, and loaded with the aroma of the hop. They are fully 8 times as strong as the ‘ tinctuea lupuli’ of the Ph. L. A few drops added to a glassful of ale or beer render it agreeably bitter and stomachic. 3. (Beewee’s E. of hops.) Several noxious prej)arations under the name of extract of hops are sold by the brewer's druggist. They are mostly semi-fluid extracts of quassia, gen- tian, and like powerful bitters. Of three of these articles which we have examined, one (for PALE ale) consisted of the mixed extracts of quassia and chamomile ; another was a pre- paration of picric acid; whilst a third (‘strongly recommended for poetee’) consisted of about equal parts of the extracts of bitter aloes, cocculus indicus, and wormwood. A few years ago one of these vile compounds was publicly advertised, and ^ warranted’ as being equal to 100 times its weight in hops (1 oz. to 5^ lb). Essence of Jargonelle' Pear. Syn. Peae ESSENCE, ESPEIT DE JAEGONELLE, &C. Prep. From pear oil (acetate of oxide of amyle), as ESSENCE OF ALMONDS. This is iiow largely employed to flavour confectionery and liqueurs. See Amyle and Oil (Volatile). Essence of Jas'mine. See Spieit and Oil (Volatile). Essence of Jes'samine. See Spieit and Oil. Essence of Jon'quil. See Spieit and Oil. Essence of Lav'ender. Syn. Essentia la- VANDUL® (odoeata), L. Prep. 1. Oil of lavender (Mitcham), 2 oz.; rectified spirit (strongest), 1 pint. 2. As the strongest Eau de lavende. See Spieit. Essence of Lavender (Red). See Spieit and Tinctuee. Essence of Lem'on. Syn. Essentia li- monis, L, Prep. 1. See Oil (Volatile). 2. (VV. Procter.) Fresh oil of lemons, 1 fl. oz.; deodorized alcohol (strongest flavourless rectified), 8 fl. oz.; exterior yellow rind of lemons (fresh), ^ oz.; digest 48 hours, and filter. Used for flavouring mixtures, pastry, &c. 3. From oil of lemons, as essence of all- spice. Used as the last. Essence of Lemon Peel. Syn. Essence of LEMON EIND, QUINTESSENCE OF L. P.; ES- SENTIA COETICIS LIMONIS, L. Prep. 1. Yellow peel of fresh lemons, \ lb.; spirit of wine, 1 pint; digest for a week, press, and filter. Very fragrant. 2. Yellow peel of fresh lemons, 1 lb.; boiling water, ^ gall.; infuse 1 hour, express the li- quor, boil down to ^ a pint, cool, and add oil of lemon, i oz., dissolved in spirit of wine, 1 pint; mix, and filter. Used as the pre- ceding. Essence of Lov'age. Syn. Essentia le- VISTICI, L. Prep. (Ph. Wurt.) Lovage root (levisticum officinale), 2 oz.lovage seeds, 1 oz, j