PLASTEE. 1096 white lead), 1 lb.; olive oil, 32 fl. oz.; water, j q. s.; boil them together, constantly stirring j until perfectly incorporated; then add, yellow \ wax, 4 oz.; lead plaster, 1^ lb.; and when these are melted, and the mass somewhat cooled, stir in of jwwdered orris root, 9 oz. A favourite application in the United States of America to inflamed and excoriated surfaces, bed-sores, burns, &c. Plaster of Mel'ilot. Syn. Emplastr^m meli- LOTI, E. E MELiLOTO, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. E. 1744.) Fresh melitot, chopped small, 6 1b.; suet, 3 lb.; boil until crisp, strain Avith pres- sure, and add, of yellow resin, 8 lb., l/ees’ wax, 4 lb., and boil to a plaster. Stimulant. Used to dress blisters, &c. The greater portion of this plaster in the shops is made without the herb, and is coloured with verdigris. (See the next formula.) 2. (Wholesale.) Take of yellow resin, 18 lb.; green ointment, 4i Ih. ,* yellow wax, 3 lb.; finely powdered verdigris, q. s. to give a deep-green colour. Mercu"rial Plaster. Syn. Emplastetjm MEECTJEIALE; E. HYDEAEaYEI (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Add, gradually, of sulphur, 8 gr., to heated olive oil, 1 fl. dr., and stir the mixture constantly with a spatula until they unite; next add of mercury, 3 oz., and triturate until globules are no longer visible; lastly, gradually add of lead plaster (melted over a slow fire), 1 lb., and mix them all well together. (About 1 fl. dr. of balsam of sulphur may be substituted for the oil and sulphur ordered above.) 2. (Ph. E.) Resin, 1 oz.; olive oil, 9 fl. dr.; mix by heat, cool, add of mercury, 3 oz., and triturate until its globules disappear; then add of litharge plaster, 6 oz. (previously lique- fied), and mix the whole thoroughly. 3. (Ph. D.) Oil of turpentine, \fi.oz. ; resin, 2 oz.; dissolve, with the aid of heat; add of mercury, 6 oz.; triturate until the globules disappear, and the mixture assumes a dark gray colour, then add of litharge plaster (pre- viously melted), 12 oz., and stir the whole vmtil it stiffens on cooling. 4. (Wholesale.) Take of mercury, 7 lb.; pre- pared sevum, ^ lb.; triturate until the glo- bules disappear, and add the mixture to lead plaster (melted by a gentle heat, 36 lb.; stir them Avell together, and until they concrete. Very fine bluish-slate or lead colour. Obs. Mercurial plaster is used as a dis- cutient in glandular enlargements, and other swellings; and is also applied oyer the hepatic regions in liver complaints. Mercurial Plaster with Belladon'na. Syn. Emplasteum hydraegyei cijm belladonna, L. Prep. From mercurial jilaster, 6 dr.; ex- tract of belladonna, 2 dr.; olive oil, 1 dr.; mixed by a gentle heat. One of our most useful anodyne and discutient applications, in painful scirrhous, scrofulous, and syphilitic tumours. The Medico-Chirurgical Pharm. or- ders i fl. dr. of hydrocyanic acid to be added* to every 2 oz. of the above. Plaster of Min'ium. Sijn. EMPLASTRrri MINII, E. E MINIO, E. PLUMBI OXYDI EUBEI L. Prep. (Ph. L. 1746.) Olive oil, 4 lb. minium (red lead), in fine powder, 2^ lb. water, q. s.; proceed as for lead plaster (whicli it closely resembles). Obs. To ensure a good colour and the quality of keeping well, the quantity of oil should b( increased about l-3rd. When discoloured In heat it forms the ‘beown minium plasteb (emp. e MINIO fuscum) of old pharmacy Lead plaster, either alone or with the additioi of a little red lead, is usually sold for it. Plaster of Minium (Compound). Syn. Xu EEMBEEG PLASTEE ; EmPLASTEUM MIXIH COMPOSITUM, L.; Emplatee de Nueemberg Fr. Prep. (Soubeiran.) Red lead, 12 parts olive oil, 8 parts; grind them together on { porphyry slab, and add the mixture to leai plaster, 50 parts, bees’ wax, 24 parts, meltec together; lastly, when nearly cold, stir in o camphor, 1 part. Morrison’s Adhesive Plaster. Syn. Moe eison’s adhesive paste. From wheatenflour 2 oz. ; mild ale, ^ pint; stir them together and heat the mixture to the boiling-point when cold, add of powdered resin, 3 oz.; and constantly stirring, again heat them to boiling Used as a depilatory in ring-worm, &c. Plaster of Mu'cilages. Syn. Diachyloi COMPOSITUM, Emplasteum e mucilaginibu.® L. Prep. (Ph. L. 1746.) Bees’ wax, 20 oz. oil of mucilages, 4 oz.; melt, and add them t« strained ammoniacum, 3 oz., common turpentim 1 oz.; previously melted together. Stimulan and emollient. Plaster of Mus'tard. Syn. Emplasteo SIN APIS, L. This is always an extempora neous preparation. Flour of mustard is mad into a stiff paste with lukewarm water, or wit’ vinegar, and is then spread on a piece of calico o linen (folded two or three times); over the sur face of the mustard is placed a piece of gauze o thin muslin, and the plaster is then applied t the part of the body it is intended to medicate Its action is that of a powerful rubefacien and counter-irritant; but its applicatio should not be continued long, unless in e.x treme cases. Its eJBfects are often apparent! wonderful. We have seen very sex^ere cases ( facial neuralgia, sore throat, painful joint' rheumatic pains, &c., relieved in a few minute by means of a mustard plaster or fouUice.' Nuremberg Plaster. See Compound Mini UM Plastee. Plaster of 0"pium. Syn. Emplasteu ANODYNUM, E. OPii (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prej 1. (Ph. L.) Lead plaster, 8 oz.; melt, and ad of frankincense (thus), 2 oz.; next, add ( extract of opium, 1 oz., previously dissolve in boiling water, 1 fl. oz.; and, constantll stirring, evaporate the mixture over a slo| fire to a proper consistence. This plaster