748 HYDROPHOBIA—HYPOCHLORIC ACID. by the copious use of pure cold water, both internally aiul externally, together with dry sweating, and the due regulation of diet, exercise, and clothing. This “ treatment of diseases undoubtedly includes powerful thera- peutic agents, which, in the hands of the edu- cated and honourable practitioner, might be most beneticially resorted to as remedial agents.’^ (Pereira.) HYDE,OPHO'.SIA. Syn. Ca^vINE madness; Rabies canina, L. A disease which is gene- rally considered as the result of a morbid poison being introduced into the system by the bite of a rabid animal. A clear case of idiopathic or spontaneous hydrophobia has never yet been known to occur in the human subject. Tlie common symptoms of hydrophobia are great excitability and horror at the sight of water or the attempt to drink, fever, vomiting, excessive thirst, spitting of viscid saliva, difficult respiration, irregular pulse, convul- sions, syncope, delirium, and death. The whole materia medica has been, un- fortunately, unsuccessfully sought without the discovery of a single remedy for this disease, or even a palliative of its severer symptoms. The treatment of the recent bites of venomous animals has been fully explained,^ and need not be repeated here. To prevent secondary or constitutional effects arising, the use of lemon juice, or arsenical solution, has long been popular. (Graham, and others.) Dr. Buchan remarks that ^‘vinegar is of considerable use, and should be taken/rcc/y."’ HYDEOSELER'IC ACID. See Hydeogen (Seleniuretted). HYDROSUL'PHATE. Syn. Ha'DEOSulphf- EET, SULPHYDEATE; HyDEOSULPHAS, L. A salt formed by the action of hydrosulphuric acid with certain metals. It differs from a SULPHIDE or SULPHUEET in Containing hydro- gen. The hydrosulphates of potassa, soda, ammonia, and calcium, are well-defined com- pounds. See Hydeogen (Sulphuretted). HYDROSULPHOCYANTC ACID. A com- pound of hydrogen and the peculiar radical called SULPHOCYANOGEN. Prep. 1. By decomposing sulphocyanide of lead, suspended in water by sulphuretted hy- drogen, and filtering the solution from the precipitated lead. 2. By decomposing a mixture of 1 part of sulphocyanide of silver and 100 parts of ivater, by sulphuretted hydrogen. Prop., 8^‘c. The solution thus prepared is a colourless fluid, readily undergoing decom- position by the action of air and heat. With the bases it forms compounds termed sulpho- cyanides. HYDROSUL'PHURET. See Hydeosul- PHATE. HYDROSULPHU'RIC ACID. See Hydeo- GEN (Sulphuretted). See page 318. HYDROTELLU'RIC ACID. See Hydeo- GEN (Telluretted). HYDR0TH0"RAX. Syn. Deopsy of the CHEST. The common symptoms of this dis- ease are, difficulty of breathing when in a recumbent posture, paleness, cough, thirst, swelling of the legs and feet, quick, irregular, or intermittent pulse, a scarcity of urine, and a fluctuation of water in the chest. The treat- ment is the same as that for anasaeca or general dropsy, observing to avoid the use of emetics. See Deopsy'. HY'DRURET. See Hydeidl. HYGIENE'. Syn. Hygiene, Fr. Health; its preservation, promotion, and restoration. That department of medicine and civil govern- ment which relates to health. See Aie, Bath, Exeecise, Flannel, Food, Nuteition, Sleep, Ventilation, &c. HYOCHOLAL'IC ACID. See Hyocholic Acid {below). HYOCHOL'IC ACID. Syn. Glycohyocito- LALic ACID. A compound peculiar to the gall of pigs, discovered by Strccker and Gun- delach. Prep. The fresh gall of pigs is mixed with a solution of sulphate of soda ; the precipitate is dissolved in absolute alcohol, and decolourized by animal charcoal. From this solution ether throws down hyocholate of soda, which, on the addition of sulphuric acid, yields hyocholic acid as a resinous mass, which is dissolved in alco- hol, re-precipitated by water, and dried. When heated with alJcaline solutions, GLYCOCINE and a new crystalline acid (hyocholalic acid) are formed. When boiled with acids, it yields GLYCOCINE and HYODYSLYSIN. HYOSCY'AMINE. Syn. Hyosciamia, Hyos- CYAMINA, Datueine, Datueia. An alkaloid obtained from common henbane {Hyoscyamus niger), and also from the thorn apple {Datura stramonium). See Datueine. HYPNOTICS. Syn. Hypnotic A, L. Agents or medicines which induce sleep, as opium, morphia, henbane, Indian hemp, lactucarium, &c. Agents which prevent sleep are called agrypnotics (ageypnotica, L.), or anthyp- notics (anthypnotica, L.). HYP0CHL0"RIC ACID. Syn. Peeoxide OF CHLOEINE, FeeCHLOEIC OXIDE ACIDUM HYPOCHLOEICUM, L. Prep. Powdered chlo- rate of potassa is made into a paste with con- centrated sidphw'ic acid, and cooled; this is introduced into a small glass retort, and very cautiously heated by warm water; a deep- yellow gas is evolved, which is the acid, which can only be collected by displacement, like chlorine, since mercury decomposes and water absorbs it. Prop. Hypochloric acid has a powerful odour, quite different from that of chlorine itself. It is exceedingly explosive, being re- solved with violence into its elements by a temperature short of the boiling-point of water. Its preparation is, therefore, always attended * The name given to it by Dr. Odling.