ATTENUATION—AURANTIACE.E. 247 That makes thin, or less dense or viscid; di- luting. In medicine, applied to remedies (at- TEN'UANTS, span.em'ics) whicli are supposed , to act by thinning, diluting, or impoverishing the blood. See Blood, Diluents, Span^- MICS, &c. ATTENUATION. Syn. Attenua'tio, L. ; Attenuation, Fr.; Verdunnung, Ger. A I thinning or diminishing; a reducing in con- sistence. In medicine, see the adj. (above); in brewing, the decrease of the density of worts during fermentation, arising from the gradual convei*sion of their ^saccharine ’ (sugar) into alcohol. See Brewing, Distillation, Worts, &c. ATTRACTION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. At- I teac'tio, L. ; Anziehung, Ger. The power ' that draws together and resists separation. In physics, the tendency which material bodies, and their atoms or particles, have to I approach each other, and to remain in contact. I When this power is exerted between masses of matter at sensible distances from each other, it is in the direct ratio of the quantity, and the inverse ratio of the square of the distance, \ and is then named gratita'tion or the at- ' TRACTION OF GRAVITATION. When its ope- rations are confined to the minute atoms of , bodies, and are exerted only when these atoms I are at insensible distances from each other, or I in apparent contact, it is termed contig'uous ATTRACTIONorMOLEC'ULAR FORCE. Thefirsthe- longs to all matter. It determines the figure and motions of the planets and comets, and causes I the descent of heavy bodies to the ground. The I second is the cause of the irregular figure of na- tural bodies, and ofLthe various combinations of matter which are found on the surface of our ! globe. To it we are indebted for the coherence I of solids, theformation of crystals, the refraction I of light, the ascent of liquids in capillary tubes, the sphericity of a drop of wafer, formation and resolution of compounds, and for all chemical I actions generally. The operations of contiguous attraction or the molecular force on atoms of matter of the same nature or kind, producing ‘ aggregation ^ or ‘ mass,^ are denominated the ATTRACTION OF COHE'SION, A. OF AGGREGA'- , TiON, or A. OF HOMOGENEITY; but when acting ! on dissimilar atoms or particles, and pro- ducing compounds, or bodies possessing new properties, it constitutes elec'tive or chem'- ICAL ATTRACTION Or affin'ity, and its results are chemical combina'tion. Capillary action (capTllary attraction or capillarity), is that manifestation of molecular attraction i which acts between particles of matter within ! very small or insensible distances, and gives rise to some of the most important phenomena of the physical world. The terms elec'tric attraction and mag- netic ATTRACTION are employed in physics ' to denote phenomena which we imperfectly understand, and which operate between bodies at sensible distances, and simulate those of the attraction of gravitation. The corresp. adj. are attract'iye, at- tracting {attractif &c., Fr.; anziehend, &c. Ger.). See the above terms in their alpha- betical places. AT'TRAHENT (attra'*—Webster). Syn. Att'rahens,^ L. That draws or attracts. In medicine, remedies, as blisters, sinapisms, and other stimulating applications, which attract the fluids to the parts to which they are ap- plied, and thus accelerate a cure, are often called att'rahents (attrahen'tia, a. medi- camen'ta, L.). Attri-TION (-trish'-un). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Attri"tio,L.; Abreibung, Aufreibung, Ger. In mechanics, the wearing away of parts by friction. In medicine, a graze, abrasion, or solution of continuity of the cuticle, or the act which causes it. In surgery, the crushing or tearing away of any exterior portion of the body by violence. See Abrasion, Anti-at- trition, Friction, &c. AU'BURN (aw'-). Syn. Brun OBSCUR, ChaTAIN CLAIR, Fr.; Das kastanienbraun, &c., Ger. In dyeing painting, a warm-tinted or reddish-brown, or denoting it. AUD'ITORY (awd'-). Syn. Audito"rius, L. In anatomy, possessing the sense of hearing, or belonging to or connected with the organs on which this sense depends. Relating to the sense or organs of hearing. AU"RA (aw'- or awr'-). [L., Eng., Fr.] Syn. Luftchen, Lufthauch, Ger. Literally, a breath or gentle current of air; in physiology, ^c., any subtile vapour or emanation from a body, as aroma, effluvia, or odour. Among the old chemists and j)hysiologists, a pure, refined essence, existing in plants and animals, per- ceptible only by its odour and effects. That contained in the grains of pollen and liquor seminalis (aura semTnis, a. semina'lis) 'was presumed to possess the power of fertilising the ovules and ova. It is now generally be- lieved that this is effected, in both cases, by the direct contact of minute organic particles. A sensation resembling a draught of cold air, perceived when a current of electricity is re- ceived from a sharp point, is termed aura elec'tric A; that frequently experienced im- mediately before a fit of epilepsy, as if a stream of cold air were ascending from the lower part of the body towards the head, aura epi- lep'tica ; a similar phenomenon occasionally occurring in hysteria, AURA hyster'ica. The vital principle was called aura yita'lis, by Helmont. AURANTIA'CE.® (-she-e). [Lat.; D.C.] The orange tribe. In botany, an extensive and important natural order of exogenous trees and shrubs, found exclusively in tbe temperate and tropical parts of the Old World, and un- known in a wild state in America. The fruit is pulpy, succulent, sub-acid, and eatable, and separated into cells by membranous partitions, and is covered with a leathery aromatic skin 1 Dr. Mayne accents tliis word on the last syllable, thus—altrahen's (!). See “ Expos. Lex.," p. 101.