299 BELL—BELL.METAL. to all ‘ coleopterous insects/ or such as have I hard or shelly wing-cases, especially to those of a dark or obscure colour. The common | pests of our kitchens and basement floors I which pass familiarly under the name of beetles, black beetles, or cockroaches, belong to the order ‘ orthoptera/ and not to the ‘coleoptera’ or ‘ beetle-tribe/ as the name implies. See COLEOPTEEA, INSECTS, &C. Black Beetle; Domes'tic Beetle. See Blatta, COCKEOACH, &c. Blis'tering Beetle. See Canthaeis. BELL. Syn. Campa'na,^ Campan'ula,^ No'la*,'^ Tintinnab'ultjm,^ L. ; Cloche, Clochette,® Geelot,® Fr.; Glocke, Schelle, &c, Ger.j Bell, Bella, Belle, Sax. A hollow vessel or body, usually of cast metal, with a wide cup-like mouth expanding out- wards, so formed as to emit sound when sus- pended and struck with a hard substance. The word is also applied, either alone or in compo- sition, to substances having the figure of a bell; as bells (of flowers), bell-animal, b.- floicer, b.-glass, Sfc. Hist. Bells are of very ancient origin. They are mentioned in the Pentateuch.'^ They were known and used by the Egyptians. The Greeks employed them in their camps and garrisons ; and they were used as architectural ornaments, as w'ell as for their sound, both by Greeks and Romans.® They were common, at a very early date, among the Chinese. Large bells were first introduced into the churches of Campania, about a. d. 400. They are first mentioned, in England, by Bede, towards the end of the seventh century; but none w^ere actually cast here until the reign of Edmund I.whilst the first musical chimes w’ere not produced here until a.d. 960. Russia pos- sesses larger bells than any other nation—four at Moscow weighing from 16 to 110 tons each; w’hilst the ^ great bell ^ of that city, now broken, is said to weigh 210 tons. Form, manuf., 8fc. Bells of “the common and well-known shape, with a thick lip or sound-bow, are the most effective known in- struments for producing a loud and musical sound, such as you want when you erect a large public clock, or put up a peal of church bells.” “ After trying a number of experi- ments, at Messrs. Warner’s,^" I am quite satis- fied that there is nothing to be gained by deviating materially from the established pro- portions of the best old bells.”^^ This view is ^ Appropriately, a large bell suspended or adapted for suspension ; as that of a church, &c. * A small bell. » Id. * Id.; appr., one ‘ .suspended* as a door-bell, servants’ bell, &c. * little bell, a hand-bell. * A little round-bell. 7 E.vodus, xxviii., 3. ® Strabo, Pliny, &c. * About A.D. 94'2. w The celel)rated founders of ‘ Big Ben.' Lecture on the ''Fonn of Bells," deliv. at the Royal lustitmion, by Mr. B. Dennison, to whom the Goveru- borne out by the researches of the Government commissionerswho visited the Paris Exhi- bition, who report, that among the ‘founders* of France and Belgium, there are no traditions of the art, nor any discoveries or appliances of modern science, tending to the ‘ improve- ment * of bells, or to provide efficient substi- tutes for them; nor is there any known im- provement on the established mode and usual material (beonze or bell-metal) for casting them. Sir C. Barry, indeed, according to Mr. Dennison, “ seemed rather impressed with the merits of cast-steel bellsbut both Prof. Wheatstone and Mr. Dennison, differ from him in opinion. Undoubtedly some cast-steel bells, of small size, have been produced, capable of yielding sounds of extraordinary clearness and richness; but, in most cases, owing to the difficulty in giving the peculiar molecular con- dition to the metal essential to a high degree of sonorousness, their tones are comparatively harsh and disagreeable. Well-annealed glass offers a cheaper and better material than steel for large bells up to a certain size, whilst its tones are exquisite. As the depth of the tone of a bell depends chiefly upon the di- mensions and weight of the sound-bow, it appears likely that by directing our experi- ments to the increase of these, and the di- minishing of the thickness of the metal in the other parts, the quantity of metal re- qiih’ed to produce large bells might be very greatly reduced. The sound of an Indian gong that may be easily held suspended by the hand is always rich, and usually as loud and deep as a bell of ordinary construction which it would take several men to lift. The Chinese often use bells made of porcelain. Small hand-bells for the toilet and boudoir are often made of silver, and then yield tones w'hich are remarkably soft, clear, and pleasing. The tongue, clapper, or hammer, of ‘bronze-bells* should be of iron ; and ‘ steel-bells,* of bronze. ‘ Glass * and ‘ porcelain bells * require the striking part of the ‘ tongue* to be of box- wood, the proper weight being given by a ball of iron cast on the rod immediately above it, and a similar one screwed on the end of the rod immediately below it. In all cases the ‘hammer-head/ preferably globular, shoirld strike the bell near the verge, and should be free from projections or asperities. The “casting,** &c., of bells is essentially similar to that of other articles in bronze, of corresponding size, and particularly of cannon. See Bell-metal, Beonze, &c. BELL'-METAL. Syn. iEs CAMPANA"eum, L.; Metal de cloche, Fr.; Glockengut, Glockenspeise, Ger. The alloy, usually bronze, of which bells, &c., are made. The composition of bell-metal varies con- siderably, as may be seen below :— 1. (Standard.) Copper, 78 parts; tin, 22 ment in trusted the construction of the ‘great hells’ for the New Houses of Parliament. w Prof, Wheatstone and Sir Charles Barry.