AL U M1:N O {] S—AM A DO U. 130 pulverised); the whole is lastly heated in a porcelain crucible to whiteness. After the mass has cooled, a ‘ button’ of aluminium is said to be found at the bottom of the crucible. 8ee Alumina, Electeottpe, Sodium, &c. (also below). Chlo'^ride of Aluminium. Syn. Sesquichlo"- KiDE OP aluminium ; Alumin'ii Chloei'di, &c., L. Prep. 1. (CErsted.) A thick paste made of precipitated alumina, lampblack, and oil, is strongly heated in a covered cru- cible until all the organic matter is carbonised, j The residuum is transferred to a porcelain tube fixed across a furnace, one end of which is connected with another tube containing dried chloride of calcium, and the other end with a small tubulated receiver. The porcelain tube is then heated to redness, whilst chlorine, dried by passing through the chloride-of-calcium tube, is transmitted through the apparatus. In one or two hours, or as soon as the tube is choked, the whole is allowed to cool, and the newly-formed sesquichloeide collected and preserved in mineral naphtha for use. 2. (On the large scale:—Deviile.) Chlorine, ilried as before, is passed over a mixture of pure clay, lampblack, and coal-tar, contained in an iron-retort similar to that used in the manu- facture of ‘ coal-gas’ {previously ignited by means of asuitablefurnace), andconnected with a cool chamber accurately lined with tiles of earthenware. The vapours of the sesqui- chloeide condense in this chamber, as a yel- lowish crystalline mass, which is collected and preserved as before. Prop., Sfc. It is volatile at a dull red heat; excessively greedy of moisture; and very so- luble, with decomposition, hydrochloric acid and alumina being formed. Once dissolved it cannot be again recovered. Its chief use is in the preparation of aluminium. Obs. Although alumina, like ‘ magnesia,’ is freely soluble in hydrochloric acid, the ‘ ses- quichloride of alumina’ contained in this so- lution (liquid HTDEOCHLOEATE OP ALUMINA^^) cannot be obtained in the anhydrous state, or even the solid form, by its evaporation; the chloride suffering decomposition, with the formation of ‘ hydrochloric acid ’ which is volatilised, and ‘'alumina,’ which is left behind. See Aluminium. Flu'oride of Aluminium. Syn. Sesqui- PLU'OEIDE OP ALUMINIUM. This substaiice, as- sociated with ‘fluoride of sodium,’ occurs native in the mineral kyolite. It also exists in the topaz and pycnite. One of its characteristic proper- ties is its tendency to form ‘ double compounds’ with the fluorides of potassium and sodium. Prep. From jowre alumina and hydrojiuoric acid, by simple solution, &c., in leaden ves- sels. Pure; used only for chemical purposes. See Aluminium. Oxide of Aluminium. See AlU3Iina. Phos'phuret of Aluminium. Syn. Sesqui- PHOs'pHUEET OP ALUMINIUM. See Alumi- NU^M (above). Selenluret of Aluminium. See Alumi- nium. Sul'phuret of Aluminium. Syn. Sul'phide OP ALUMINIUM, SeSQUISUL'PHUEET OP A.; &C. A substance best obtained by passing the va- pour of bisulphuret of carbon over pure alu - mina, at a bright red-heat. It is instantly decomposed by water, with the evolution of sulphuretted hydrogen. See Aluminium {above). ALTJ'MINOUS (-roo'-min-us; -liim'-, as marked by Mayne, is unusual or §}. Syn. AlUMINO'sUS, L.; AlUMINEUX, Fr.; ALAUN- HALTIG, Alaunicht, Ger. In mineralogy, 4’c., of, or resembling, or containing alumina. In chemistry, containing or obtained from alumf. Aluminous Earths. Syn. Tee'e^ Alumino'- s.E, L. See Boles, Clay, Fullee’s Eaeth, Mael, &c. ALU'MINUM. See Aluminium. ALVE'OLI (li). [L. pi.] See Alveolus. ALVE'OLUS. [L.] Syn. Al'veole (-ve-ole); Alveole, Fr. In anatomy, the socket of a tooth. They are collectively termed the alve'oli or alve’olar processes. AL'VINE (-vin). Syn. xVlvi'nus, L. ; Al- vin, Fr. Of or from the belly or intestines; relating to the intestinal secretions. AM'ADOXJ (-Mi-doo). Syn. Geeman tin- dee, Toucii'wood, Pyeotech'nic sponge, SpunkJ§, Suegeon’s Ag'aeic, A. op the OAK, &c.; AgaeTcusquee'cus, a. quee'nus, A. chieuego"eum, Fun'gus queecus, &c., L.; Amadou, Agaeic Amadouviee, Fr.; Zundeeschwamm, Ger. A soft, spongy, combustible substance, being the prepared flesh of bole'tus fomenta”rius (Linn.), an in- digenous species of fungus found on the oak, birch, and a few other trees (eeal amadou or OAK-agaeic) ; for which b. ignia"rius (Linn.), a like fungus, found on the willow, cherry, plum, and other trees, is frequently substi- tuted. Collec., prep., ^ c. The outer bark of the fungus (collected in Aug. or Sept.) having been removed w ith a knife, the inner spongy- , substance is carefully separated from the woody ' portion lying below', and after being cut into ■ slices, is well beaten with a mallet until sufli- ’ ciently soft and pliable. Some parties flrst boil it in water, in order to separate the epi- dermis and porous parts, and to free it fronijj soluble matter; after which they dry it and beat it as before. In this state it is used in surgery, Ac. To complete its manufacture for' TiNDEE, it is soaked once, or oftener, in a strong solution of saltpetre (eed amadou;: BEOWN A.); or ill a thin paste made of gunpowdei and water, which is thoroughly forced into the pores (black a.) ; after which it is dried, and well rubbed to free it from loose matter. The first is the more cleanly; the lust, the more combustible. Uses, ^'"c. A light-brown, or retldish-browii substance. In surgery, pharmacy, Sfc., it i> I 1 r !» i II ti 5f ' lil It k Ud IIQ I