FULMINATION—FULMINlC ACID. 672 parts; nitre, 30; fulminate of mercury, 12; sulphur, 17; ground glass, 14; gum, 1, making- altogether 100 parts.’’ (Watts.) Caution. Fulminate of mercury should only be dried in small parcels at a time, and these should be placed at a distance from each other. The dreadful explosion which occurrel some years ago at Apothecaries’ Hall, and by which Mr.Hennel, the talented chemist of the Apothe- caries’ Company, lost his life, was occasioned by the spontaneous detonation of this sub- stance. Fulinina,ting Platinum. Syn. Platinuji FULMINANS, L. Prep. By acting on hiuoxide of platinum with pure ammonia. It is analo- gous to the gold and silver ammonia-com- pound. Fulminating Powder. Syn. Detonating powder; Pulvis pijlminans, L. Prep. 1. Nitre, 3 parts; carbonate of potash (dry), 2 parts; flowers of sulphur, 1 part; reduce them separately to fine powder, before mixing them. A little of this compound (20 to 30 gr.), slowly heated on a shovel over the fire, first fuses and becomes brown, and then explodes Avith a deafening report. 2. Sulphur, 1 part; chlorate of potassa, 3 parts. When triturated, with strong pres- sure, in a marble or wedgewood-ware mortar, it produces a series of loud reports. It also fulminates by percussion. 3. Chlorate of potassa, 6 parts; 2)ure lamp- black, 4 parts; sulphur, 1 part. A little placed on an anvil detonates Avith a loud report, AAdicn struck Avith a hammer. No. 1 is the substance commonly known as ‘ fulminating poavder.’ See Blasting Powder. Fulminating Silh’-er. Syn. Argentum ful- minans, L. Two very distinct compounds are known by this name, the one containing oxide of silver and ammonia, and the other being a true fidminate of silver. Prep. 1. (Amaionia-compound of sila'er, Berthollet’s FULAIINATING SILA'ER.) — a. Digest oxide of silver (recently precipitated and dried by pressure between bibulous paper) in concentrated li([Uor of ammonia, ^ov 12 or 15 liours, pour off the liquid, and cautiously dry the black powder in the air, in divided por- tions. The decanted ammoniacal liquor, when gently heated, yields, on cooling, small crystals, Avhicli possess a still more formidable power of detonation than the black powder, and will scarcely bear touching, even Avhilst under the liquid. b. Dissolve chloride of silver in strong liquor of ammonia, cautiously add pure potassa (in fragments), and Avhen effervescence ceases, decant the fluid portion, and Avash and dry the powder, as before. 2. (Fulminate of silver, Brugnatelli’s FULAIINATING SILVER ; ARGENTI FULAIINAS, L.) — a. Pour alcohol, 1 oz., on 'nitrate of silver (in fine powder), 100 gr,, previously placed in a capacious flask or beaker glass, and shortly afterwards add strong nitric acid, 1 oz.; as soon as all the poAvdercd nitrate assumes the form of white clouds, add cold distilled water, q. s. to suspend the ebullition, and next col- lect the powder on a filter, and otherwise pro- ceed as Avith the ammonia-compound {above). b. (Fownes.) Metallic silver, 40 to 50 gr.; nitric acid (sp. gr. 1*37), f fl. oz.; dissolve by the aid of a gentle heat, add, Avhilst the solution is still hot, alcohol, 2 fl. oz., and again apply heat until reaction commences; the fulminate sloAvly separates from the hot liquid under the form of small, brilliant, Avhite, crystalline plates, Avhich, after being slightly washed Avith a little cold distilled water, are to be distributed upon separate pieces of filtering paper, in por- tions not exceeding 1 or 2 gr. each, and lelt to dry in the air. When dry, the papers are to be folded up, and carefully preserved in a box or bottle. A sixpence and the strongest com- mercial nitric acid and rectified spirit answer for the above purpose. c. (Liebig.) Grain silver, 1 part; nitric acid (sp. gr. 1-3(3 to 1-38), 10 parts; dissolve at a gentle heat, and add the solution to alcohol of 85q’, 23 parts; apply a gentle heat till the liquid begins to boil, then remove it from the fire and set it aside to cool; the fulminate of silver is deposited in lustrous, snow-white, acicular crystals, and Avhen Avashed and dried, equals in Aveight that of the silver employed. Prop., 8^’c. The properties of both compounds are very similar. Those of the true ful- aiinate of sila'ER (No. 2) need only be con- sidered here. This dissolves in 36 parts of boiling Avater, but the solution deposits the greater portion of the Mminate as it cools. It is one of the most dangerous substances for Avhich Ave are indebted to modern chemistry. It explodes Avith unparalleled violence by fric- tion or percussion, or Avhen strongly heated, or when touched Avith strong sulphuric acid; the metal is reduced, and a large volume of gaseous matter suddenly liberated. Strange to say, though its explosive tendency is so great that it can be hardly made, handled, or kept, Avith safety, it may, Avhen very cautiously mixed Avith oxide of copper, be burned in a tube to determine its composition, in a similar manner to that employed in the analysis of other organic substances. Many frightful accidents have happened from the spontaneous explosion of this substance. 1 or 2 gr. are the , most that can be exploded with safety in a building or confined space. Fulminating Zinc. Syn. Fulminate of ZINC ; ZiNCUAI FULAIINANS, ZiNCI FULAIINAS, L. Prep. From fulminate of silver, zinc flings, ' and a little water, digested together, as ful- minating COPPER. FULMINA'TION. Syn. Fulminatio, L. Detonation. A sudden explosion, accompanied with a loud report and extreme Auolence. Some : chemists, without suffi(;ient reason, have en- , deavoured to confine the application of the term to the explosion of ^fulminate. j FULMIK'IC ACID. Syn. Acidum fulmi-?