PHOSPHOROUS ACID. 1056 silver white, and is distinguished from the other modifications of phosphoric acid by the property which its solution possesses of co- agulating albumen. Heat rapidly converts its solution into that of the tribasic acid ; but when this solution is evaporated to dryness and heated to redness, the acid is reconverted into the monobasic state. The salts of this acid are termed metaphosphates, or Moisro- BASIC PHOSPHATES. Tests. The following reactions characterise the ORDINARY or TRIBASIC PHOSPHATES :—1. j Chloride of barium produces in aqueous solu-: tions of the neutral and basic phosphates a | white precipitate, which is insoluble in either | hydrochloric or nitric acid, and with difficulty ! soluble in a solution of sal ammoniac.—2. | Solution of sulphate of lime produces in neutral and alkaline solutions of the phosphates a i white precipitate, freely soluble in acids, even j the acetic.—3. Sulphate of magnesia produces j in solutions of the phosphates, to which some sal ammoniac and free ammonia or its car- bonate has been added, a white, crystalline, and guicJcly subsiding precipitate of the basic phos- phate of ammonia and magnesia, which is insoluble in a solution of either ammonia or sal ammoniac, but readily soluble in acids, even the acetic.—4. Nitrate of silver, with neutral and basic alkaline phosphates, gives a light yelloiv precipitate. If the fluid in which the precipitate is suspended contained a basic phosphate, it does not affect test paper; if it contained a neutral phosphate, the reaction will be acid. If the phosphate examined has been heated to redness before solution, it then, as a monobasic salt, gives a ivhite precipitate with nitrate of silver.—5. Hydrochloric acid is added to the solution to acid reaction, and afterwards 1 or 2 drops of a concentrated solution of sesquichloride of iron; a solution of acetate of potassa is next added in excess, when a flocculent, gelatinous, white precipitate (sesquiphosphate of iron) will be formed if phosphoric acid was present in any form or combination in the original liquor. This test is highly characteristic, and of general ajipli- eability.— Obs. The insoluble phosphates must be first treated with diluted hydrochloric or sulphuric acid, and the resulting solution fil- j tered and neutralized with an alkali, before ; applying the reagents. When the substance i under examination consists of a very small quantity of phosphoric acid in combination or admixture with a large quantity of sesquioxide of iron, it should be fused with some car- bonate of soda, the residuum of the ignition exhausted with water, and the tests applied | to the Altered solution. Arsenious acid, if present, should be removed by sulphuretted hydrogen before applying the tests. When the acid exists in combination with alumina, the solution in hydrochloric acid is neutralized with carbonate of soda; carbonate of baryta is next added in excess, followed by the addi- tion of caustic potassa, also in excess, after which the whole Is boiled. An insoluble phos. phate of baryta is formed, which may bo cle composed by sulphuric acid, as before. Estim. Pure solutions of phosphoric acui may be tested by the common methods o acidimetry. When in a state of combination it may be separated and weighed in either o the forms noticed under Guano. Uses, Sfc. The tribasic acid is the commoi form, and is the compound alluded to whei, ‘ phosphoric acid ’ is spoken of. It is exten sively employed by the bleacher, dyer, calico printer, and enameller. Unlike sulphuric uci( and the other strong acids, it does not coagu late albumen nor injure vegetable fibre, ami is not decomposed by contact with organii matter. In combination with alumina and i little boracic acid, it is said to be capable o producing a glaze for earthenware of extremij beauty and durability, and perfectly innocuou.s It is also tised in medicine. (See below.) Dilute Phosphoric Acid. Syn. Medicinaj PHOSPHORIC ACID; ACIDUM PHOSPHORICU3 DiLUTUM (Ph. L.), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) .^i mixture of nitric acid, 4 fl. oz., and distillei. water, 8 fl. oz., is poured on phosphorus (place( in a retort), 6 dr., and the heat of a sane bath being applied, 6 fl. oz. are allowed b pass over into the receiver; this liquid i returned into the retort, and a second liki quantity allowed to distil, which is rejected the liquid remaining in the retort is ne.\ evaporated in a platinum capsule until reducec to 2 oz., and, when it has cooled, as mud distilled water is added to it as will make tin whole accurately measure a pint. Pur., 8fc. It is “free from colour and odour- Neither chloride of barium nor nitrate o silver disturbs its solution. It does not ii“ any way affect strips of copper or silver, noi is it coloured by sulphuretted hydrogen, eithei before or after contact with these metals 1 fl. oz. of this acid is saturated by 132 gr. o crystallized carbonate of soda, and no pre cipitate is formed. Sp. gr. 1-064.” (Ph. L. By heat, it yields pure glacial phosphoric acii (HO, PO5). It contains about 8-7§ of aiihy drous phosphoric acid, or nearly lOg of glacia acid. Uses, Sfc. Asa remedy in nervous disorders phosphatic urinary deposits, diabetes, morbii ossifications, caries, rickets, &c. Dose. 10 t( 30 drops, in water or any bland fluid; alsc made into lemonade, to allay thirst, as th( other mineral acids; and into a liniment, a a friction to osseous tumours. PHOS'PKOROUS ACID. Syn. Acidum phos phorosum, L. This substance is slowh formed on the surface of phosphorus wliei exposed to the air at a temperature below 60 Falir. Prep. 1. (Anhydrous; Phosphorus an HYDRIDE.) By burning phosphorus under {|| bell-glass, with a very limited supply of air White; pulverulent. ^ 1 2. (Hydrated.) Pure phosphorus is vola