EBULLIOSCOPE. 639 matter, as will be seen in the following table, extracted from Mr. C. G. Williams’s excellent ‘Handbook of Chemical Manipulation’:— Table II,—Boiling-points of Saturated Solu- tions of various Salts at the ordinary Atmo- spheric Pressure. By C. G. Williams. Name of Salt, Chloride of calcium Acetate of soda Nitrate of soda Sal-ammoniac Common salt . Oream of tartar Boiling-'point. . 355° Fahr. . 256 „ . 246 „ . 236 „ . 224 „ . 214 „ I I I I I The above solutions are suitable for chemical batlis.^ With the exception of the first, they furnish in their boiling-points temperatures, as nearly as can be obtained, 10° above each other. They were chosen by Mr. Williams because, in ‘ fractionating ^volatile substances, it is usual to separate the distilled i>roducts by differences of temperature equal of 10° Fahr. In long operations it is found inconvenient to employ a saturated saline solution for a bath (by which the highest temperature would be obtained), as the constant eyaporation of the water induces the crystallization of the salt. It is hence usual to keep it considerably below that point. From the experiments of Kopp and others, it has been discovered that an exact ratio exists between the chemical constitution of certain liquids and their boiling-points at the same j)ressure. Thus, methyliCy ethylic, pro- pylic, and butylic alcohols, differ from each other by an increment of C2II2J and their boiling-points differ by an increment of 31'4° Fahr. Another example of this is shown in the ‘ hydrocarbons ’—benzole, toluole, xylole, and cumole, the difference in their composition being CgHg, while the difference in their boiling-points is 41° Fahr. The following table, compiled chiefly from the pages of Dr. Miller’s ‘ Elements of Che- mistry,’ gives the boiling-points of several interesting substances. Table III.—Boiling-points of various Liquids at the ordinary Atmospheric Pressure. Name of Substance, Boiling-point, Liquid carbonic acid . -108° Fahr. Liquid sulphurous acid , 4- 17*6 Chloric ether 51*9 y> Aldehyde .... 69*4 » Ether .... 94*8 Bisulphuret of carbon 118*5 Bromine .... 145*4 Wood spirit 149*9 Alcohol (sp. gr. *815)“ 173*1 Benzole .... 176*8 yf Dutch liquid 18i*7 iy Acetic acid 213*1 yy Sulphur (melted) 609* Mercury .... 662* 1 See page 27S. * See page 72. EBUL'LIOSCOPE. Syn. Ebullition alco- HOLOMETEll, ThEEMO-ALCOHOLOMETEK. “This instrument is essentially a thermometer, and its application to alcoholometry is based upon the fact that the boiling-point of a spirituous liquid is scarcely altered by the presence, within certain limits, of the substances which may be dissolved in it, and which, by increasing its specific gravity, render the ordinary alco- holometers or hydrometers useless for the purpose of indicating its alcoholic richness. The ebullioscope was invented by the Abbe Brossard-Vidal, of Toulon, and in its original form consisted of a spirit-lamp surmounted by a small boiler, into which a large cylindrical glass bulb was plunged, having an upright stem of such calibre that the quicksilver contained in them, by its expansion and ascent when heated, raised before it a little glass float in the stem, which -was connected by a thread with a similar glass bead, hanging in the air. This thread passed round a pulley, which, turning with the motion of the beads, caused an index to move along a graduated circular scale, which represented on its face the per- centage of absolute alcohol in spirituous liquors of different boiling-points. This form of the apparatus being found inconvenient and liable to get disarranged, various improvements were made in it by MM. Conaty, Lerebour, and others. The modification of the instru- ment now in use, and known as Field’s Patent Alcoholometee, was made by the late Dr. Ure, and can scarcely be improved on. It consists of a thermometer having a very minute bore and a large bulb, similar to that employed to determine the height of mountains from the boiling-point of water, but instead of ther- mometric degrees being marked upon the scale the per-ceniage under proof is placed on the left-hand side of the stem, and the per- centage content of proof spirit on the right- hand side. These commence at 178*5° Fahr., the temperature at which ‘ proof spirit ’ boils, and which here forms the bottom of the scale. The succeeding numbers are based upon the boiling-points of mixtures of alcohol and water.^ The little boiler being charged, and about a ieaspoonful of salt (35 gr.) being added, to prevent loss of alcohol by evapora- tion, the thermometer is set in its place, and the spirit-lamp lighted. When the mercury begins to rise out of the bulb of the ther- mometer, the * damper-plate’ is pushed in a little way, to moderate the heat. The eye is now kept steadily on the instrument, and as soon as the liquor boils freely, and the mercury becomes stationary in the stem, the indication is carefully noted, and the damper-plate pushed home to extinguish the flame. “ The ebullioscope is adjusted to the mean boiling-point of water under an atmospheric pressure of 29*5 inches. When the pressure is either higher or lower, both -water and alcohol boil at a somewhat different tein- 3 See Tables, page 72.