1149 PURPURA—PUTREFACTION. j)ods, no mordant is required. The proper ^•cportion of the clear alcoholic solution is ixed with water slightly warm, any scum that •ay form is cleared off, and the goods are itered and worked until the required shade j obtained ; a small quantity of acetic or tar- 'ric acid is recommended to be added in some ses. For dyeing on cotton with the aniline Hours, the cloth or yarn is steeped in sumac : tannic acid, dyed in the colour, and then l:ed by tin ; or it may be steeped in sumac jid mordanted with tin, and then dyed. Pur- ■es were formerly, and are still occasionally, oduced, by first dyeing a blue in the ‘ indigo t* and then dyeing a cochineal or lac scarlet i)on the top. See Violet Dye. IPURTURA. An eruption, or efflorescence, Insisting of small specks and patches, caused ' extravasation of blood under the cuticle, id so named from its colour. Saline ape- ents and mild tonics appear to be the best medies. Although it is not a severe af- ction, it is often very little influenced by edicine. PUR'PURATE OF AMM0"NIA. See Mn- JXIDE. PURPU'RIC ACID. See Mfeexan. jPUR'PURIN. Syn. Maddee purple. The ime given by Robiquet and Colin to a jiautiful colouring principle obtained from ladder. ' Prep. Coarsely powdered madder is allowed \ ferment with water, after which it is boiled I a strong solution of alum ; the decoction is pxt mixed with sulphuric acid, and the re- jlting red precipitate is purified by one or ; ore crystallizations from alcohol. I Prop., 8^c. Crystalline red needles, insoluble , cold water, but soluble in hot water, and in •cohol, ether, and solutions of alum and the ^kalies. It differs from alizarin or madder 3D in containing 2 equiv. less of carbon. PUR'REE. Syn. Indian yellow. A yellow bstance, of doubtful origin, imported from bina and India, and now extensively used in )th oil and water-colour painting. According • the researches of Stenhouse and Erdmann, t consists of PURREic acid, a strongly jnctorial vegetable substance, united to mag- ESIA. I PURREIC ACID. Syn. Euxanthic acid. [his substance is obtained from purree. It lystallizes in nearly colourless needles, which {•e only sparingly soluble in cold water, and inns rich yellow-coloured compounds with •le alkalies and earths. Heat converts it [to a neutral, crystallizable substance, called pRRENONE. I PUS. The cream-like, white or yellowish |:iuid secreted by wounded surfaces, abscesses, |>res, &c. PUTREFAC'TION. Syn. Puteepactio, L. ihe spontaneous decomposition of animal and iitrogenized vegetable substances, under the int influence of warmth, air, and moisture, he solid and fluid matters are resolved into gaseous compounds and vapours, which escape, and into earthy matters, which remain. The most striking characteristic of this species of decomposition is the ammoniacal or fetid ex- halations that constantly accompany it. The nature of putrefaction, and the conditions essential to its occurrence, have been briefly alluded to under Fermentation, to which we must refer the reader. It may here, however, be useful to reiterate that this change can only be prevented by the abstraction or exclusion of the conditions essential to its occurrence. This may be effected by—reduction of tempe- rature,—exclusion of atmospheric air, or—the abstraction of moisture. The antiseptic pro- cesses in common use are effective in precisely the same degree as these preventive means are carried out. Frozen meat may be preserved for an unlimited period, while the same sub- stance will scarcely keep for more than a few days at the ordinary heat of summer. Animal SUBSTANCES will also remain uninjured for a long period if kept in vessels from which the air is entirely excluded, as in the process now so extensively adopted for the preservation of fresh meat for the use of our army and marine. The third condition is fulfilled when nitro- genized matter is preserved in alcohol, brine, or any similar fluid, and when it is dried. In either case water is abstracted from the sur- face, which then loses its propensity to putrefy, and forms an impervious layer, which ex- cludes atmospheric oxygen from the interior and softer portion of the substance. Creasote, and most of the antiseptic salts, also act in this way. Among special antiseptic processes are the following :— Application op cold. The accession of putrefaction is prevented, and its progress arrested, by a temperature below that at which water freezes. In the colder climates of the world, butcher’s meat, poultry, and even VEGETABLES, are preserved from one season to the other in the frozen state. In North Ame- rica millions are thus supplied with animal food, which, we can state, from personal expe- rience, is often superior in flavour, tenderness, and apparent freshness, to that from the recently killed animal. In temperate climates, and in cold ones during their short summer, ICE-HOUSES and ice-safes afford a temperature sufficiently low for keeping meat fresh and sweet for an indefinite period. Substances preserved in this manner should be allowed to gradually assume their natural condition before cooking them; and on no account should they be plunged into hot water, or put before the fire, whilst in the frozen statq. Bucaning. a rude kind of drying and smoking meat, cut into thin slices, practised by hunters in the prairies and forests. Desiccation or drying. In this way every article of food, both animal and vege- table, may be preserved, without the appli- cation of salt or other foreign matter. The