ALBURN UM—ALCHEMY. 57 ii [ are the difterent diseases wliich result from, or •| are attended by, the presence of albumen in J the urine, that we scarcely know how to par- ,[ ticularise the symptoms which should lead us ! to search for it. There can, however, be no j doubt, that a greater or less amount of dropsy ; of the areolar tissue is the malady with which ' it is most frequently associated; so that where- , ever this is present, or is known to have i existed previously, the examination of the urine I should never be omitted. This examination I will be the more inctimbent on us, if the dropsy he a consequence of scarlatina, or of I any other eruptive or continued fever.” Pain 1 or weight about ^he loins,'referable to one or I both of the kidneys, frequent desire or neces- ' sity of micturition during the- night, convul- sive or apoplectic symptoms or seizures in j those not predisposed thereto by birth, con- formation, or age, obstinate vomitings, either '1 alone or alternating with diarrhoea, and not : allayed by the usual remedies, with many { others of a like character, are among those ‘‘ which should awaken a suspicion of the ex- ! istence of albuminuria.” (Dr. Alg. Frampton.) The urine is either reddish, or smoke-coloured; I or it is pale and straw-coloured; its sp. gr., I when filtered, is generally below, and often } much below, the lowest density of healthy I urine; and its reaction on test-paper is usually alkaline. Heat, assisted hy nitric acid in ex- I cess, is here the best test for albumen. The ( microscope may also be advantageously em- I ployed. The urine selected for examination, ' should be that voided on rising in the morn- ing. Treat. This necessarily greatly depends on j the causes and the nature of the secondary I diseases which arise out of it, and complicate i it. Renal stimulants, particularly diuretics, I must be carefully avoided. Aperients (as com- 1; pound powder of jalap or of scammony), dia- II phoretics (as Dover's powder, or antimonials I' assisted with acetate of ammonia), and warm I baths, are to be most relied on. Mercurial I; purgatives, digitalis, cream of tartar, and se- veral other medicines formerly given in this disease, are now considered to be injurious. Pure cold water, taken in moderate draughts, often proves serviceable. After the inflamma- ' tory stages, tonics (as chalybeates, quinine, bark, i ^c^ should he had recourse to. Benzoate of 1 ammonia is recommended, by Dr. Seymour, for its power of diminishing the excretion of albu- ; men. The diet should be sparing during the I inflammatory stages, and light, but nutritious, ! afterwards; spirits and strong fermented li- quors being at all times avoided. Albuminuria, when accompanied with struc- tural disease, or with dropsy, is generally in- curable, and often rapidly fatal. See Deopsy, Urine, &c. ALBURN'UM. [L.] Syn. Alburn*; Sap- wood. In botany, the white and softer parts of the wood of exogenous plants, lying be- tween the inner bark and the heartwood. It consists of empty or nearly empty tubes or cells, which gradually acquire solidity by the deposition of resins, tannin, and other pro- ducts of vegetation, and in time becomes wood. It is through the alburnum that the ascending sap chiefly flows. ALCARA'ZZA. [Sp.] A species of porous earthenware, or a vessel formed of it, made in Spain from a light, sandy marl, and but slightly fired. Their value as ‘ coolers’ arises from the copious evaporation of the water, which gradually transudes. A similar ware and articles are made in France, under the name of hygrocera'men';’ and in England, under the names of porous ware, water coolers, WINE COOLERS, BUTTER COOLERS, &C. The following are forms said to be used in our potteries:— Prep. 1. Take of sandy-marl, 2 parts; brine, q. s.; make a dough, and then knead in of common salt, in fine powder, 1 part. Bake the pieces slowly, and lightly. 2. Good clay, 2 parts; fine siliceous sand, 3 parts; brine, q. s.; common salt, 1 to 2 parts; as before. 3. Powdered clay, 2 parts ; powdered char- coal, 3 parts (by weight); water, q. s. to form a stiff dough. The kilning must be so ar- ranged that the heat is applied gradually, and the vessels exposed to a current of hot air; and it must be continued until all the charcoal is burnt out, carefully avoiding over-firing. See Pottery, &c. AL'CHEMY (-kim-). Syn. Al'chymy, (-kim-); Hermetic Art*; Alchem'ia, alchym'ia, L. ; Alchimie, Fr.; Alchemie, Ger.; Alchimia, It. The romantic forerunner of the modern science of chemistry. An imaginary art or science, having for its objects the discovery of —a substance (phii.osopher’s stone) capable of transmuting the baser metals into gold— a panacea, or universal remedy (elixir viTiE), by which disease and death were to be avoided by its possessor—an alkahest, or universal sol- vent—a universal ferment ; and other like ab- surdities. A mixed metal formerly used for utensils was also called by this name. Hist., <^'c. At one time this art was much practised among the nations of modern Europe, and is even now, perhaps, not wholly exploded. If regard may be had to legend and tradition, alchemy must be as old as the flood. The al- chemists themselves traced their art to the very highest antiquity, and forged treatises bearing the names of Hermes, Solomon, and other ancient sages, are said to have been extant among them at no very remote period. Whe- ther it was followed, as an art, among the classical ancients, seems however questionable; as few philosophers, poets, or physicians who flourished from the days of Homer to the fifth century of the present era, mention any such thing. The earliest authentic record of the existence of such a pursuit is to be found in Pliny, who says that the emperor Caligula was the first who prepared ‘ natural arsenic,’