KINONE-KREASOTE. 812 to dryness. Prod. 24 lb. Extract of mahogany is also commonly sold for kino. KI'NONE. Prep. Kinic acid, 1 part, hinoxide of manganese, 4 parts, and sulphuric acid, 1 part, diluted with water, are distilled to- gether; the liquid in the receiver is a so- lution of kinone, from which crystals may be obtained. Prop., ^c. Yellow; crystallizahle; pungent; soluble in water; vapour exceedingly irritating to the eyes; the aqueous solution, treated with ammonia, and then exposed to the air, be- comes at first brown, and finally black; with chlorine water it strikes a bright green colour. The presence of kinic acid in bark is readily detected by converting it into kinone. (Dr. Stenhouse.) KIRSCH'WASSER (-vas-ser) [Ger.]. Sun. Kieschenwassee. a spirituous liquor dis- tilled in Germany and Switzerland from bruised cherries. From the rude manner in which it is obtained, and from the distillation of the cherry-stones (which contain prussic acid) with the liquor, it has frequently a nauseous taste, and is frequently poisonous. When properly made and sweetened, it resembles noyau. KISK. An artificial graphite occasionally produced in iron-smelting furnaces. It occurs in brilliant scales, and is said to possess pecu- liar efficacy in certain forms of ansemia and chlorosis. KITCH'EN. The late Alexis Soyer set down as one of the crying faults of our countrymen, the employment of an apartment for the kitchen which is either too small or inconve- niently situated, and which, in general, is not sufficiently provided with ‘ kitchen requisites.’ “As a workman cannot work properly without the requisite tools, or the painter produce the proper shade without the necessary colours, in like manner does every person wishing to economise his food, and to cook it properly, re- quire the proper furniture wherewith to do it.” The neglect of these matters, which is so general, is, undoubtedly, a mischievous and deceptive economy. KNOX’S POW'DER. Prep. From common salt, 8 parts ; chloride of lime, 3 parts; mixed together. An ounce of it dissolved in a tum- blerful of water furnishes a solution which is similar toLABAEEAQUE’S UISINFECTINa FLUID. KCECHLIN'S LIQUID. Prep. From copper filings, 96 gr.; liquor of ammonia, 2 fi. oz.; digested together until it turns of a full blue colour, and then mixed with hydrochloric acid, 5 fl. dr.; distilled water, 5 lb. Bose. 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls daily ; in scrofula. It is poison- ous in large doses. KOOCH'LA NUT. See Nux Vomica. KOU'MISS. A liquor prepared by the Cal- mucs, by fermenting mare's milk, previously kept until sour, and then skimmed. By dis- tillation, it yields a spirit called rack, racky, or araka. 21 lb. oi fermented milk yield about f pint of low vnnes, and this, by rectification, gives fully ^ pint of strong alcohol. KOUS'SO. Syn. Cusso, Kosso. This sub- stance is the dried flowers of the Brayera an- thelmintica, an Abyssinian tree which grows to the height of about 20 feet, and belongs to the natural order Rosacece. It is one of the most effective remedies known for both va- rieties of tape-worm. The dose, for an adult, is 3 to 5 dr., in powder, mixed with about half a pint of warm water, and allowed to macerate for 15 or 20 minutes. The method prescribed for its successful administration is as follows: —The patient is to be prepared by a purgative or a lavement, and the use of a very slight diet the day before. The next morning, fasting, a little lemon juice is to be swallowed, or a por- tion of a lemon sucked, followed by the dose of kousso (both liquid and powder), at 3 or 4 draughts, at short intervals of each other, each of which is to be washed down with cold water acidulated with lemon juice. The action of the medicine is subsequently promoted by drinking weak tea without either milk or sugar, or water flavoured with lemon juice or toasted bread; and if it does not operate in the course of 3 or 4 hours, a dose of castor oil or a saline purga- tive is taken. The flavour of kousso is rather disagreeable and nauseating. Its operation is speedy and effectual; but at the same time it is apt to produce, in large doses, great prostration of strength, and other severe symptoms, which unfit it for administration to the delicate of both sexes, or during pregnancy or affections of the lower viscera. Care should be taken not to purchase it in powder, as, owing to its high price (40s. to 48s. per oz. retail), it is uni- formly adulterated. The powdeeed kousso of the shops is, in general, nothing more than the root-bark of pomegranate, coloured and scented. KRE'ASOTE. Syn. Ceeasote, Ceeosote, Keeosote ; Ceeasotum (Ph. L. & D.), Cbea- ZOTUM (Ph. E.), L. A peculiar substance dis- covered by Reichenbach, and so named on account of its powerful antiseptic property. It is a product of the dry distillation of organic bodies, and is the preservative principle of wood smoke and pyroligneous acid. Prep. Kreasote is manufactured from wood- tar, in which it is sometimes contained to the amount of 20g to 35g, and from crude pyrolig- neous acid and pyroxilic oil. 1. (P. Cod.) Wood-tar is distilled in a wrought-iron retort until white vapours of appear; the heavy oily matter which forms the lower layer of the product is col- lected, washed with water slightly acidulated with sulphuric acid, and then distilled in a glass retort, rejecting the first portions, which are chiefly eupion; the distillate is treated with a solution of pofassa (sp. gr. 1T2), the mixed liquids being shaken strongly together; after it is settled, the layer of eupion which forms is removed from the surface, and the potash- solution of kreasote exposed to the air until it becomes black; it is then saturated with dilute