CARBONIC OXIDE—CARMINE. S99 forms a white precipitate in aqueous solutions of lime and baryta, which is soluble in acetic acid. By the last test, a very small quantity of this gas may be easily detected in the atmo- sphere of rooms, &c. A lighted candle is ge- nerally used to test an atmosphere suspected to contain carbonic acid j but it is found that air that will support combustion will contain sufficient of this gas to cause insensibility. See Caebonates. Ant.y Sfc. The patient should he immedi- ately removed into the open air, and placed on his back with the head slightly raised. Cold I water should be dashed over the body, hot I water or mustard poultices applied to the feet, j and ammonia (carefully) to the nostrils. Brandy- i and-water and other stimulants may be ad- ministered. Continued friction on the surface of the body is also very useful. If the patient has ceased to breathe, artificial respiration i should be attempted. This may be done by gently pressing down the ribs, and forcing up the diaphragm, and then suddenly withdraw- ing the pressure. The inhalation of air, mixed with a very little chlorine gas, has also been recommended. Wells, cellars, or other under- ground apartments, containing carbonic acid in poisonous quantities, may be freed from this gas by pumping it out, in the same way as water, observing to allow the suction hose to fully reach the floor or bottom of the place. . Fresh slacked lime or milk of lime, copiously ; thrown in, will have a like effect, by absorb- ing the gas. Free ventilation, whenever it can be established, is, however, not only the \ cheapest, but the most efficient remedy. See \ Asphyxia. I Liq'uid and SoTid Carbonic Acid. See \ I Liquefaction of Gases. [ I CARBONIC OXIDE. Syn. Ga'seous oxide OF CAEBON; OXY'DUM CAEBONTCUM, L. A \ gaseous compound of carbon and oxygen, con- taining one equivalent of oxygen less than is I contained in carbonic acid. ^ Prep. 1. From carbonic acid gas passed ! over fragments of charcoal, heated to redness 1 in a tube of porcelain or iron. 2. From equal weights of chalk or carbonate t of soda, and iron filings or charcoal, ignited together. 3. From crystallized oxalic acid gently 1 heated with 5 or 6 times its weight of strong ' sulphuric acid in a glass retort. 4. (Dumas.) From binoxalate of potassa and < same proportion of strong sulphuric acid as . No. 3. » 5. (Fownes.) From yellow ferrocyanide of ; I potassium in fine powder, and 8 or 10 times j its weight of concentrated sulphuric acid, ' I heated together in a glass retort. Obs. All the processes except the last give a mixture of carbonic acid and oxide. It is ' therefore necessary to pass the gas through t a caustic alkaline solution or milk of lime, to I deprive it of carbonic acid. It may then be passed over dried chloride of calcium, to deprive it of moisture. It may be collected either over mercury or water, as the latter absorbs very little of this gas. Prop. Carbonic oxide is colourless, inodor- ous, neutral, inflammable, and irrespirable. It is extremely poisonous, Ig mixed with air being sufficient to cause dangerous drowsiness. The deaths produced by the combustion of charcoal in close rooms are now attributed to this gas. The antidotes, 8fc., are the same as for poisoning from inhaling carbonic acid. CAR'BURET. Syn. Cae'bide. A term em- ployed to denote the union of carbon with a base. The more important carburets are given under the heads of their respective bases, CAR'BURETTED HY'DROGEN. See Hy- DEOGEN. CAR'BYLE (Sulphate of). See Ethionic Anhydeyde. CARD'AMOM. Syn. Caed'amum; Caeda- mo'mum (Ph. L. E. & D.). The seed or fruit of the Eletlaria Cardamomum forms the offi- cinal cardamom. It is warm, pungent, car- minative, and stomachic, and is largely used as a condiment in the East, and in Europe as an adjuvant in other medicines. Several kinds of cardamoms used medicinally and as spices are produced by the genus Amomum, belonging to the natural order Zingiberacece, the Ginger family. CARMIN'ATIVES. Medicines that allay flatulency and spasmodic pains. Among the principal carminatives are aniseed, caeaway seed, caedamoms, cassia, cinnamon, gin- GEE, PEPPEEMINT, and the PEPPEES. To these may be added aedent spieits, and most of the aeomatic essences and tinc- TUEES. SeeMixTUEES, Patent Medicines, &c. CAR'MINE. Syn. Caemine eed. Vege- table SCAELET; Caemi'num, L. A beautiful red pigment prepared from the cochineal insect. Prep. The preparation of carmine is little understood, hut success in its manufacture depends less on any mystery connected with the process than on the employment of the purest water and the best materials, and the exercise of moderate care, dexterity, and patience. The following forms will produce carmine of the richest hues down to ordinary and common, according to the skill possessed by the manipulator. 1. {Madame Cenette’s process.) Cochineal (in powder), 2 lb., is boiled in pure river water, 15 gall., for 2 hours, when refined saltpetre (bruised), 3 oz., is added to the decoction, and the whole boiled for 3 or 4 minutes longer; salt of sorrel, 4 oz., is next added, and the boiling again renew'ed for 10 or 12 minutes; the heat is now removed, and the liquid allowed to settle for about 4 hours, after which time it is decanted with a syphon, into shallow plate-like vessels, and set aside for 3 weeks. At the end of this time the film of mould which has formed on the surface is dexterously and carefully removed, without breaking it or dis- turbing the liquid beneath it. The remaining