HELLEBORIN—HERBARIUM. 728 small doses (2 to 8 gr.) ; and a drastic hydra- gogue purgative and anthehnintic in larger ones (10 to 20 gr.). See White Helleboee. HELLEBOR'IN. Syn. Soft eesin of helle- BOEE. An odourless, acrid substance, ex- tracted by alcohol from Hack hellebore, and on | which, according to Vauquelin, the activity of j that drug depends. HEMIPI'NIC ACID. A product of the action of caustic potassa or opianic acid. HEM'LOCK. Syn. Conihm (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. In pharmacy, “ the fresh and dried leaf of the wild herb Conium maculatum” (Ph. L.), or spotted hemlock. The first is used to make the extract; the last, the tincture and powder. Hemlock is a powerful narcotic acrid poison, occasioning stupor, delirium, paralysis, con- vulsions, coma, and death. In small doses it is anodyne, alterative, resolvent, antispas- modic, and anaphrodisiac, and has been exhi- bited in cancer, dropsy, epilepsy, rheumatism, scrofula, syphilis, and other diseases. Dose. 3 or 4 gr. of the powder, tw ice or thrice daily, until some obvious effect is produced. Hemlock, whether in leaf (cONii folia) or pow’der (pfltis CONIi) rapidly deteriorates by keeping. When good, “ the powder, triturated ■with solution of potassa, exhales a pow'erful odour of conia."^ (Ph. E.) In cases of poisoning by hemlock, the treat- ment is similar to that noticed under Aconite. See Conine, Exteact, Tincthee, &c. HEMP. Syn. Cannabis, L. In botany. the typical genus of the natural order Canna- binacece. The common hemp, from the fibres of wdiich cordage is made, is the species Can- nabis sativa. The fruit of this plant (hemp seed) is demulcent and oleaginous. It is said th.at the plumage of bullfinches and goldfinches fed on it for too long a time, or in too large ! a quantity, changes from red and yellow’ to ! black.^ ! Indian Hemp. Syn. Hashish, Cannabis Indica. This plant, now so largely used in medicine, is a variety of Cannabis sativa, or, perhaps, the same simply rendered more active by climate. The parts emploj’ed in Asia for the purposes of intoxication, and in Europe as medicine, are the. herb or leaves and the resin. The ‘ gunjah’ sold in the bazaars in the East Indies is the)[plant, just after fiow'ering, dried and pressed together. ‘ Bang,^ ‘ bhang,’ ‘ sub- JEE,’ or ‘ SiDiiEE,’ consists of the larger leaves and capsules without the stalk. The concrete resinous exudation from the leaves, stems, and flowers, is called ‘ chheeus,’ and in this country * resin of Indian hemp.’ ‘ Hashish’ seems to be a general term for the preparations of hemp. Indian hemp is anaesthetic, anodyne, ex- hilarant, antispasmodic, hypnotic, and nar- cotic. In the East it is commonly used as an intoxicant, either by smoking it, like tobacco, or swallowing it. The inebriation produced by it is of an agreeable or cheerful character, 1 Burnett, “ Outlines of Botany P exciting the party under its influence to laugh, dance, sing, and to commit various extra- vagancies. It also acts as an aphrodisiac, augments the appetite for food, and, in some cases, occasions a kind of reverie and catalepsy. In this country its action is less marked. It has here been chiefly administered under the form of alcoholic or resinous extract. See Exteact of Indian Hemp. HEN'BANE. Syn. Hyosctamps (Ph. L. E. & I).), L. In pharmacy, fresh and dried stalk-leaf of the biennial herb, Hyoscyamus niger” (Ph. L.), or common biennial or black henbane. The first is used for preparing the extract; the last, for the powder and tinc- ture. Henbane is anodyne, hypnotic, antisjuis- modic, and sedative. It differs from opium in not being stimulant, and by not confining the bow’els; and hence may be administered in cases in w'hich that drug would be improper. In large doses it acts as a powerful narcotic poison, producing obscurity of vision, dilation of the pupils, delirium, phantasms, coma, &c. Dose. 3 to 10 gr., in powder. It is usually given in the form of extract or tincture. The antidotes, &c., are the same as those noticed under Opium. HE'PAR. Syn. Litee. A name given by the older chemists to various combinations of sulphur, from their brownish or liver colour; as ‘ hepar antimoniif ‘ hepar sulphuris,’ &c. See Antimony (Liver of). Potassium (Sulphuret), &c. HERBARIUM. [Eng., L.] Syn. Hoetus SICCUS, L. A collection of dried specimens of plants; hence called hoetus siccus, or dry garden. Plants for the herbarium should be gathered on a dry day, and carried home in a tin-box (‘yasculdm’), or other convenient receptacle wdiich will preserve them fresh for a time. Those which have collected moisture in their leaves should be allowed to diw, their stalks being placed in w’ater to keep them alive. Plants w ith very thick, succulent leaves or steins must be killed by immersion in hot water before they can be safely placed in the DEY’ING PEESS. The press consists simply of a few stout boards with a screw'—or, still better, a number of heavy weights, bricks, or stones—for pressing them together. The spe- cimens of plants, w'hen all superficial moisture has been removed, are placed between layers of bilmlous paper (botanical papee), care being taken that the parts of each are ar- ranged in a natural manner. The sheets con- taining the specimens are then placed between the boards, and pressure is applied. This must be very gentle at first, and should he gradually increased as the plants become dry. The paper is changed every day or every second day, and the damp sheets are dried for use at a future time. ^Vhen properly dried, the specimens are placed on sheets of w'riting paper, and fixed by a few stitches of thread, a little gum, or strips of gummed paper. The