1319 VISION—VOLTAIC ELECTRICITY. attacked with * graisse/ or * ropiness.’ See Vinous Feementation, Wines, &c. Vr'SION. The following means of preserving and restoring the sight may be appropriately inserted here:— For NEAE-siOHTEDNESS.—Close the eyes and press the fingers very gently, from the nose outward, across the eyes. This flattens the pupil, and thus lengthens or extends the angle of vision. This should be done several times a day, or at least always after washing the face, until short-sightedness is overcome. For LOSS or sight by age, such as require magnifying glasses, pass the fingers or towel from the outer corner of the eyes inwardly, above and below the eye-balls, pressing very gently against them. This rounds them up, and preserves or restores the sight. It is said that many persons, by this last means, have preserved their sight so as to read fine print at 80 years of age; others, whose sight had been impaired by age, by carefully manipulating the eyes with their fingers, from their external angles inwardly, have restored their sight, and been able to dispense with glasses, and have since preserved it by a continuance of the practice. To be successful, or safe, these practices must be (applied with great gentleness and caution. Many persons seriously damage their eyes by forcibly rubbing them when drowsy, especially on awaking in the morning, i The ‘ Lancet ^ remarks, that “ there is good % reason to believe that chicory (the coffee of i the Londoners), from its narcotic character, 4 exerts an injurious effect on the nervous system. I So convinced of this is Professor Beer, of Vienna, a most celebrated German oculist, that he has enumerated chicoried coffee among the causes of amaurotic blindness.” To strengthen the eyes, to relieve them when swollen or congested, and to remove chronic ophthalmia, purulent discharges, &c., nothing is equal to frequently bathing them with water, at first tepid, but afterwards lowered in temperature to absolute coldness. VIT'RIOL. A common name for sulphueic ACID, and for several of its salts. (See below.) Blue Vitriol. Syn. Roman yiteiol. Com- mercial sulphate of copper. Green Vitriol. Commercial sulphate of iron. White Vitriol. Commercial sulphate of zinc. VITTIE VAYR. Syn. Vetiyee. The Ta- mool name of the odorous and fibrous roots of the Andropogon muricatus sold by the per- fumers. VOLTATC ELECTRICITY. Syn. Galyanic E., Galyanism, Voltaism. That branch of electrical science which has reference to the phenomena attendant on the development of electricity by chemical action. Electricity thus developed may be made to show itself in the ‘ static ’ condition, so as to produce the effects of frictional electricity, but it is much more easily obtained in the ‘ dynamic' con- dition—in other words, as a ‘ voltaic current ’ —when it is especially remarkable for its chemical and magnetic effects. If a plate of zinc and a plate of platinum be immersed in dilute sulphuric acid, and connected outside the liquid by a wire, a current of electricity will immediately be set up, and will continue as long as the conducting circuit is complete and the action of the acid on the zinc goes on. The current of ‘ positive ^ electricity passes from the zinc, through the liquid, to the platinum, and thence through the wire to the zinc. The arrangement of two dissimilar metals immersed in a liquid which acts upon one of them is called a voltaic couple. By uniting a number of couples together in regular order, a voltaic pile or batteey is formed. The older forms of the voltaic battery, viz., Volta’s pile, Ceuikshank’s teough, and Wollaston’s batteey, are now but little used. They all consist of a series of couples of zinc and copper, excited by an acid liquid, generally a mixture of water with of its bulk of sulphuric acid, and gj of nitric acid. One of the most useful forms of the voltaic battery is that proposed by the late Prof. Daniell, and commonly known by his name. Its peculiar advantages arise from its action continuing without interruption for a long time, hence the name of ‘constant batteey’ that has been applied to it. The following figure will explain the construction of each couple. A. A coffer cylinder, filled with a saturated soVutioni of sulfhate of copper. B. A smaller porous cylinder {earthenware or memlrane), containm": a mixture of 1 measure of strong sul- phuric acid, and about 8 measures of water. C. A rod of amalgamated zinc, supported in the smaller cylinder by the cross piece (i). 2). A shelf full of small holes, for supporting crystals of sulphate of copper, to keep up the strength of the solution. e and/. Screws and caps to connect the wires g and A with the battery. g. The negative wire, connected with the zinc. A. The positive wire, connected with the copper. One of these couples is sufficient for electro- typing; sia^ of them form a circle of consi- derable power, and about 20 produce one suffi- ciently strong for most experiments of demon- stration and research. In arranging these, as well as other bat- teries, when intensity, or travelling power, is desired, the metallic communication is made