822 LARD—LAUREL. monly applied to several preparations iised in medicine. Lapis Caus'ticus. See Potassa. Lapis Divi'nus. Syn. Divine stone ; Lij>is OPHTHALMicrs, L.; PiEEEE DIVINE, Pr. Prep. 1. (Beer.) Verdigris, nitre, and alum, equal parts, melted together. 2. (P. Cod.) Alum, nitre, and blue vitriol, of each, 3 oz.; camphor, 1 dr.; as last. 3. (Woolfuss.) Blue vitriol, nitre, a/wm, and camphor, equal parts, melted together, adding the camphor last. Astringent and detergent. 1 oz., dissolved in water, 1 pint, formed a once celebrated lotion. 1 dr., to water, 1 pint, is still used as a coUyrium. Lapis Inferna'lis. See Niteate op Silvee. Lapis Lazuli. See Ulteamaeine. Lapis Lydius. Syn. Lydian stone. A siliceous slate, used as a touchstone hy jew- ellers. Lapis Medicamento'sus. Syn. Medicinal STONE; Lapis mieabilis, L. Prep. (Ph. L. 1746.) Alum, litharge, and Armenian bole, of each, 6 oz.; colcothar of green vitriol, 3 oz. vinegar, 4 fl. oz.; mix, and evaporate to dry- ness. Formerly used to make an astringent and detergent lotion:—1 oz. to water, 1 pint. Once a popular application to ulcers, and in other cases; now disused. Lapis Vulnerar'ius. Very similar to Lapis Divines. LARD. Syn. Hog’s xaed, axunge ; Adeps (Ph. L.), Axungia (Ph. E.), A. suillus (Ph. D.), A. POECi, A. PE^PAEATUS, L. The fat of the pig {Sus scrofa—Linn.) melted hy a gentle heat, and strained through flannel or a hair sieve. The fat about the loins yields the whitest and hardest lard. “ That which has been cured with chloride of sodium is not to he employed.” (Ph. L.) “ It is not to he used without being first carefully washed with water.” (Ph. L. 1836.) Used, chiefly, to make ointments, and in cookery. See Adeps. LARDTNG. By many this is regarded as belonging to the higher style of cookery only, and too troublesome and extravagant to he adapted to the kitchens of the middle classes and the poor. This, we are assured, is not the case. “ On the contrary, it is an economical process, and will make lean meat go much farther than without it.” The process of lard- ing is as follows :—“ Get what is called a larding needle, that is, a piece of steel from six to nine inches long, pointed at one end, and having four slits at the other to hold a small strip of bacon when put between them. It will, perhaps, cost tenpence. Cut the bacon into pieces 2 or 3 inches long, and 5 to f an inch square; put each one after the other in the pin, insert it in the meat, and leave only about I an inch out; using eight pieces to each pound.” (Soyer.) LARK. The Alauda arvensis (sktlaek) and the Alauda cristata (field-laek), with several other species of the same genus, form a light and nutritious article of food, by many es- teemed a delicacy. The last, according to Galen and Dioscorides, eaten either roasted or boiled, ‘ helps the colic.’ The heart, applied to the thigh, was also regarded to possess the same virtue. LAUD'ANUM. This name is now under- stood to denote, exclusively, the common TiNCTUEE OP OPIUM of the Pharmacopoeia; hut formerly the term was applied to several pre- H parations of opium differing greatly from each other, both in their strength and mode of pre- paration. (See below.) Dutchman’s Laudanum. From the flowers 1 of bull’s hoof or Dutchman’s laudanum {Passi- . flora merucuja—Linn.) infused in rum. Nar- ^ cotic. Used as a substitute for tincture of il opium in the West Indies. Ford’s Laudanum. This is merely the com- > mon tincture of opium aromatized with a little . cloves and cinnamon. Houlton’s Laudanum. Prep. From opium, 2^ oz.; distilled vinegar, l^pint; digested together for a week, the filtered tincture gently evaporated nearly to dryness, and then redis- solved in weak spirit (1 of rectified spirit to 7 of water), 1 quart. Bose. 10 to 60 drops. Neumann’s Laudanum. A fermented in- fusion of opium evaporated to the consistence of honey. Quince Laudanum. Syn. Exteactum opii CYDONIATUM, LAUDANUM CYDONIATUM, L. Prep. 1. Extract of opium made with quince juice; a few drops of the oils of cinnamon, cloves, and mace, being added before the mass cools. Now seldom used. 2. (Liquid quince-laudanum; Laudanum LIQUIDUM CYDONIATUM, L. L. C. PAEATUM FEEMENTATIONE, L.) A fermented infusion oj opium prepared with quince juice, aromatized with cloves, cinnamon, aloes wood, and yellow< sandal wood, and evaporated so as to possess' about twice the strength of the ordinary tine-' ture. Now obsolete. Rousseau’s Laudanum. Wine of opium pre- pared by fermentation. See Wine. Smith’s Concentrated Laudanum. Resem- bles Battley’s liquoe opii sedatives, hut possesses about 6 times its strength. Swediaur’s Laudanum. Prep. From extract of opium, 2 parts, dissolved in a mixture of alcohol, 1 part, distilled water, 8 parts. Every five drops contain 1 gr. of opium. Sydenham’s Liquid Laudanum. Syn. Lau- danum LIQUIDUM Sydenhami, L. Similar to WINE OF OPIUM—Ph. L., but rather stronger, and aromatized with a little cloves and cinnamon. Wine of opium is now always sold for it. Tartarized Laudanum. Syn. Laudanum LIQUIDUM TAETAEIZATUM, L. A tincture oJ opium prepared with spirit alkalized with salt of tartar, and flavoured with aromatics.i Obsolete. LAUGHTNG GAS. See Niteous Oxide. LAUR'EL. See Cheeey Laueel, Sweet Bay, Oil, &c.