475 CONFECTIONERY—CONSERVE. coriander seeds, and strengthened with jalap ; 'all ground to a fine powder), 18i lb. To this 'is frequently added, of rotten or inferior apples, l^civt., which are pulped with the prunes and tamarinds. This article is commonly labelled CoNF. SennjE Vee.^’ by its manufacturer. I Confection of Sponge. Syn. Elec'titaet of BTJENT SPONGE; CoNFEC'TIO SPONGII, C. S. us't.e, L. Prep, 1. Burnt sponge, 3 parts; confection of orange peel and hips, of each, 1 part; simple syrup, q. s. i 2. (St. B. Hosp.) Burnt sponge, made into a confection with syrup of orange peel. The first form produces the most agreeable con- I fection. Bose, of either, ^ dr. to 2 dr., twice or thrice daily; in scrofula, &c. ! Confection of Steel. Prep. 1. Confec'tio i FEE'RI besquioxTdi, Jj.—tt. From confection I of orange and sesquioxide of iron (Ph. L.), of I each, 2 oz.; white sugar, 3 oz.; syrup, oz.; ! mix. Bose. 1 dr. to 3 dr. ' h. (St. B. Hosp.) Sesquioxide of iron, 1 oz.; treacle, q. s. Bose. ^ dr. to 1 dr. Both are given in the usual cases wherein iron is indi- cated; especially in anaemia, chlorosis, and amenorrhoea. 2. (Confec'tio Fee'ei Taetaeiza'ti,—St. B. Hosp.) Cream of tartar, 1| oz.; tartrate of iron, 2 dr.; ginger, 1 dr.; treacle, 2| oz., or q. s. Bose. 1 dr. to 2 dr., 2 or 3 times daily. Confection of Sul'phur. Syn. Brimstone AND TREACLE ; CoNFEC'TIO SULPHU'rIS, L. Prep. 1. Sublimed sulphur, 2 oz.; treacle, 4 oz. Bose. A spoonful night and morning for a I week or longer, as an alterative or purifier of I the blood; in skin diseases, &c. I 2. (St. B. Hosp.) Precipitated sulphur, ! 1 oz.; cream of tartar, 2 dr.; honey or treacle, ' 2 oz. As the last. 3. (Ph. D.) Flowers of sulphur, 2 oz.; cream of tartar and honey, of each, 1 oz. / syrups of ginger and saffron, of each, ^ fl. oz. Bose. 1 to 2 dr.; as a laxative, in piles, gonorrhoea, &c. Confection of Tin. Syn. Confec'tio stan'ni, L. Prep. (Hosp. Form.) Powdered tin, 1 oz.; I confection of roses, 2 oz.; mix. Bose. 2 to 4 dr., ' every morning ; in worms. . Confection of Tur'pentine. Syn. Confec'tio ! terebinth'in^, L. Prep. (Ph. D.) Oil of I turpentine, 1 fl. oz.; liquorice powder, 1 oz.; I triturate together, then add clarifled honey, 2 oz. Bose and use, as the last. Confection of Worm Seed. Syn. Confec'- tio ciN'iE, C. S. CIN^, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. Slesvico-Holsat. 1831, and Ph. Suec. 1845.) I Wormseed, 2 oz.; heat it in a pan over a gentle lire, add xchite sugar, boiled to a low candy height, 4 oz.; and stir together until they become dry; then pick out those seeds which I are covered with sugar, and repeat the process with the others. 2. Powdered worm-seed and syrup of orange peel, equal parts. Bose. 1 to 2 dr., night and , morning, followed by a brisjj purge; in worms. CONPEC'TIONERY. See Candies, Drops, Lozenges, Sugar, &c. CONGELA'TION. The conversion of a sub- stance from the fluid to the solid state by the abstraction of heat. See Ice and Refrigera- tion. CONGLU'TINUM (Bracy Clarke’s). Sulphate of zinc (white vitriol), 4 oz.; dissolved in water, 1 pint. Used as an astringent lotion in veterinary practice, and, much diluted with water (a dessert-spoonful to i pint or more of water), as a collyrium in chronic inflammation of the eyes. CO'NINE (in). Syn. Co'nia, Con'icine. An alkaloid, discovered by Gieseke in hem- lock. It exists in every part of the plant, but is present in the largest quantity in the seed. Prep. (Gieger.) The seeds of hemlocTc, or their alcoholic extract, is distilled with water and potassa. The conine passes over into the receiver, and floats on the top of the water, which also contains a little conine in solution. It is purified in the way directed for the vola- tile bases. (See Alkaloid.) When the alco- holic extract is employed, about half its weight of potassa should be used. Prop., &^c. Pure conine is an oily-looking liquid, smelling intensely of hemlock, or rather of a combination of the odours of tobacco and mice; volatile at common temperatures; red- dens turmeric; boils at about 340° Fahr., but readily^distils over with water at 212°; sp. gr. *89; with the acids it forms salts, some of which are crystallizable. 6 lb. of fresh and 9 lb. of dried seeds yielded 1 oz. of conia. (Gieger.) 40 lb. of the ripe but green seeds yielded 2|: oz. of hydrated conine. (Christison.) Conine is remarkably poisonous. 1 drop, placed in the eye of a rabbit, killed it in 9 minutes; 5 drops, poured into the throat of a dog, killed it in less than a minute. It has been employed in some convulsive and spas- modic diseases, but is now seldom used medi- cinally. “ The plaintive cries, the contortions, and the rigidity of the limbs, which have always preceded death (caused by conia), leave no doubt as to the cruel pains which this kind of poisoning brings on.” (Boutron-Chalard and Henry.) The treatment may be that re- commended under Aconite and Hemlock. CON'SERVE. Syn. Conser'va, L. Recent vegetable matter, OiS, flowers, herbs, roots, fruit, and seed, beaten with powdered sugar to the consistence of a stiff paste, so as to preserve them, as nearly as possible, in their natural freshness. Conserves are made both by the confectioner and the druggist; by the flrst, as sweetmeats ; by the other, chiefly as vehi- cles for more active medicines. The London College of Physicians now includes both con~ serves and electuaries under the general head of CONFECTIONS. The term appears, how- ever, in some cases, scarcely appropriate. 'The word confection has a more general applica- tion, and implies any sweatmeat or* coinposi»