162 AMYGDALINIC ACID—AMYLE. a solution containing 1 gr. of rml hydrocyanic acid ; equiv. to 50 gr. (55 minims) of the hydro- cyanic of the Ph. L.; and it may be used as ‘‘a substitute for (strong) aqua amygdalae amarce’^ or bitter-almond water. (Beasley.) AMYGDALIN'IC ACID. Amygdalic acid. AMYG'DALOID (-loyd). Syn. Amygda- loid'al ; Amtgdaloi'des (dez), L.; Amtgda- LOiDE, Pr. Almond-sbax^ed. In mineralogy, amygdaloid is ‘ loadstone.’ AMYLA'CEOUS (am-e-la'-sh’us). Syn. Amy- la'cees, L. ; Amy'LACe, Pr. Of or like starch; consisting of or abounding in starch j starchy. See Pood, Nuteition, Staech, &c. AMYL'AMIIIE (mil'-a-min; am'ylam'ine, as sometimes heard is § or J). [Eng., Pr.] Syn. AMYL'-AMMo"]sriA. A volatile organic base, formed on the ammonia-type, discovered by Wurtz. It is a colourless, mobile liquid, having a peculiar penetrating aromatic odour, an extremely burning taste, and a strongly- alkaline reaction. It is only slightly soluble in water; boils at about 200° Pa hr.; and forms crystalline salts Avith the acids, which have a fatty lustre. Sp. gr., -750 at 64° Pahr. It constitutes one of the bases of the so-called amyl-series, all of which may be formed in a manner perfectly analogous to that of the cor- responding bases of the ethyl-series. It is, in fact, a ‘primary monamine’ in Avhich one atom of ammonia is replaced by one equiv. of ‘ amyle.’ See Amine, Ethylamine, &c. (also below). BiamyPamine (bl-). Syn. Biamyl-ammo"- NIA. An aromatic liquid, boiling at 338° Pahr.; less soluble, alkaline, and basic than amylamine. It is a ‘ secondary monamine ’ in Avhich two atoms of the hydrogen of ammonia are replaced by two eqAiiv. of ‘amyle.’ (See above.) Triamyl'amine (tri-). Syn. Teiamyl-am- mo"nia. Resembles, for the most part, the preceding; boils at about 495° Pahr. j and forms scarcely soluble salts Avith the acids. It is a ‘ tertiary monainine.’ (See above.) Tetr amyl'amine (tet-ra-). Syn. Tetea^iyl- AMMo"niu3I. An ‘ amine ’ in Avhich the Avhole four atoms of the hydrogen of ammonium are replaced by four equiv. of ‘ amyle.’ It exists in the folloAving compound:—■ Hy'drated Ox'ide of Tetramyl-ammo"nium. An organic base possessing poAverful alkaline properties, but far less soluble than its ana- logues of the ethyle and methyle series. When potassa is added to its aqueous solution, it separates as an oily layer, Avhich, on eA^apora- tion in an atmosphere quite free from carbonic acid, yields the new alkali in splendid crystals of considerable size. (See above.) Amylamine-XJre'a. Prom amylamine, like ‘ ethylamine-urea ’ from ethylamine. AM'YLE (-il). [Eng., Pr.] Syn. Am'yl; Amy'le (-le), L., Gr. The hydrocarbon Avhich is assumed to be the radical or base of the fusel- oil compounds (amyl-seeies). It is obtained by heating to 374 or 375° I’ahr., in a sealed glass-tube, a mixture of iodide of amyle and pure zinc in a finely-divided state. The result of the reaction is amyle, zinc-amyle, and iodide of zinc, from which the first is subse- quently separated. It is a colourless, ethereal liquid, boiling at 311° Pahr. See Ethy'LE. Amyle . Table of the Amyl-series. \ or Ayl. Oxide of amyle (amyl-ether) Hydride of amyle . Amylic alcohol (fusel-oil) Bromide of amyle . Chloride of amyle . Iodide of amyle Zinc-amyle . Acetate of amyle . Carbonate of amyle Sulphamylic acid . AAiiylene Valerianic acid (anhydrous) &c., &c. Ayl O. „ H. Ayl 0, Aq. Ayl, Br. Cl. „ I. „ Zn. Ayl 0, A- „ COo. „ 2S03,Aq. Cm Ho Oa Ac'etate of Amyle (as'-). Syn. Acetate OF ox'ide of amyle j Peae-oil ; &c. Prep. Pvoxa fusel-oil, 1 part; acetate of potassa (dry), 2 parts; concentrated sulphuric acid,\ part; distilled, with the usual precautions, from a glass-retort into a cool receiver. The dis- tillate is purified by AA'ashing it with very dilute solution of potassa, and re-distilling it from fused chloride of calcium. A little li- tharge added to the liquid in the retort, before rectification, wnll remove any sulphurous odour, should it be present. Prop., H^c. Liquid, limpid, colourless; in- soluble in water ; soluble in alcohol; boils at 272° Pahr.; alcoholic solution of potassa con- verts it into an acetate of that base, with re- production of fusel-oil. Obs. The odour and flavour of this pre- paration are those of the Jargonelle-pear. It is noAV extensively manufactured, and, after dilution Avith alcohol, is sold under the name of ESSENCE OF JAEGONELLE-PEAE, for flavouring liqueurs and confectionary. When this essence Avas first brought before the public, and before its composition Avas generally known to chemists, it was sold at almost fabulous prices; and the party Avho for a long time exclusively prepared it, is said to have realised a very handsome sum by the speculation. See Pedit Essences, Oils (Essential), &c. Bro'mide of Amyle. A colourless, volatile liquid, heavier than water, prepared by dis- tilling a mixture of phosphorus, 1 part; bro- mine, 8 parts; and fusel-oil, 30 to 32 parts. It has a very penetrating odour resembling that of garlic. Car'bonate of Amyle. Syn. Caebonate of ox'ide of amyle. Prepared by saturating fusel-oil Avith phosgene-gas, and treating the’ resulting compound with Avater. It is an' aromatic colourless liquid, Avhich boils at 439' Pahr.; treated with an alcoholic solution of potassa, it is decomposed, Avith the formation of fusel-oil and carbonate of potassa.