DAMSON -DEAFNESS. 499 Damp Walls. Ivy planted against the sound wall of a house is said to exclude dampness. If a wall is already damp, ivy planted against it will, when grown up, cause it to become di'y, provided the brickwork is sound, and the damp- ness does not arise from moisture attracted upwards from the foundation. Sometimes, whenivy is propagated from flowering branches, it will not adhere to a wall at all; the way to get over this difficulty is to cut it back to near the surface of the ground. The young wood which will then form will take hold and cling immediately to almost anything. DAM'SON. A species of small black plum, much used in the preparation of tarts, &c. Damsons are rather apt to disagree with deli- cate stomachs, and also to affect the bowels. See Plum. DAN'CING. The practice of dancing as an amusement or exercise must be almost as old as the human race itself. Yet, notwithstand- ing its antiquity and prevalence amongst all nations, both barbarous and refined, the pro- priety and advantages of its cultivation are of a very questionable character. In a hygienic point of view it can claim no preference, as an exercise, over the more simple ones of walking and running; whilst, from the associations it frequently induces, and the heated and con- fined atmosphere in which its votaries com- monly assemble to indulge in it, it becomes the fertile parent of immorality and con- sumption. A celebrated cyclopsedist has, per- haps, harshly, but truthfully, defined dancing to be “a silly amusement for the idle and thoughtless.^’ BANDELI'ON. S^n. Piss-a-bed; Taeax'a- CUM (Ph. L. E. & D.), L, A common British plant of the natural order Composites. It is known among botanists by the names Ta- raxacum officinale, T. dens leonis, and Leon- todon Taraxacum (Linn.). Its root (‘ radix recens,’ Ph. L.) is employed in medicine, being diuretic and tonic. It is roasted and used as coffee, and when mixed with an equal Aveight of foreign coffee constitutes the article once so much puffed under the name of ‘ dan- delion coffee.' A similar mixture prepared with chocolate forms the ^dandelion chocolate’ of the shops. The blanched leaves are used in salads, and the ins]nssated juice, extract, and decoction, are employed in medicine, and are considered as detergent, aperitive, and deobstruent. See Decoction, Exteact, ! &c. DAN'IELL’S BATTERY. See Voltaic Elec- TEICITT. DAPH'NINE. Syn. Daph’nin. A peculiar bitter principle, discovered by Vauquelin in the Daphne mezereum or mezereon. It is procured by separating the resin from the alcoholic tincture of the bark by evaporation; after- wards, diluting the residue with water, filter- ing, and adding acetate of lead. A yellow substance falls down, which, when decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen, yields daphnine, under the form of small, colourless, trans- parent, radiated needles. It is bitter; vo- latile ; sparingly soluble in cold water ; freely soluble in hot water, and in alcohol and ether. It possesses basic properties. See Mezeeeon. DATU'RA. Syn. Thoen-apple; Steamo'- NiUM (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. A genus of plants belonging to the nightshade order, or ‘ Atro-. pacecB.’ The species Datura Stramonium is an imiAortant medicinal plant, the leaves and seeds being officinal in Ph. L. and D., and the whole plant in Ph. E. It is anodyne and seda- tive, but not hypnotic, though it Avill often induce sleep by relieving pain. It affects the constitution in much the same way as bella- donna. Dose. 1 to 4 or 5 gr., in asthma, gout, headache, neuralgic and rheumatic pains, &c. In spasmodic asthma smoking the leaf often gives instantaneous relief, but must be ex- hibited with care, as the whole plant is in- tensely poisonous. No antidote is known. Another species, namely, Datura tatula, is now preferred for cigars or cigarettes. See Asthma, Cihaes (Stramonium), Datheine {below). DATU'RINE. Syn. Datu'eia, Dathein'a, Htoscy'amine. An organic alkali, disco- vered by Geiger and Hesse in Datura Stra- monium or thorn apple. It also occurs in Hyoscyamus niger or henbane. It is best ob- tained from ^the seeds. Daturine dissolves in 280 parts of cold and 72 parts of boiling Avater; it is very soluble in alcohol, less so in ether. It tastes bitter, dilates the pupil strongly, and is very poisonous. It may be sublimed unaltered, and may be obtained in prismatic crystals by the addition of Avater to its alcoholic solution. With the acids it forms salts, which are mostly crystallizable. ' DEAF'NESS. An imperfection or absence of the sense of hearing. When deafness is present in infancy and childhood, it is accompanied Avith dumbness, or imperfect articulation, in conse- quence of the impossibility of conveying a knowledge of the sounds necessary for the exei’cise of the imitative faculty of speech. Deafness frequently arises from some imper- fection or obstruction of the passage leading to the membrane of the tympanum or drum of the ear. In some cases this passage is totally occluded by a membrane, or some malforma- tion of the tube, which may frequently be removed by a surgical operation. Even in- stances of partial obliteration of this passage have occurred, which have been successfully treated. The researches of Mr. Yearsley have established the fact, that enlarged tonsils are a very common cause of deafness; and when such is the case, their excision will generally effect a cure. To this form of the affection Mr. Yearsley applies the term ' throat deaf- ness.’ Another cause of deafness is the pre- sence of foreign bodies in the aural passages, or the accumulation of hardened Avax. In these cases the best treatment is to inject