WASH—WATCHFULNESS. 1322 hands of some persons, and which is occa- sionally called ‘soft warts' is best removed by the daily use of Gowland's lotion. WASH. The fermented wort of the dis- tiller. WASH-BALLS. See Savonettes. WASHERWOMAN'S SCALL. See Psoei- ASIS. WASHES. The familiar name of lotions, more especially of those employed as cos- metics. See Feeckles, Lotion, Milk oe Roses, Skin Cosmetics, &c., and below. Hair Washes. Prep. 1. From rosemary tops, 2 oz.; boiling water, 1 pint; infused to- gether in a teapot or jug, either with or without the addition of rectified spirit, 1 fl. oz. (or rum, 2 fl. oz.) to the cold strained liquor. 2. Boa; leaves, a small hand ful; boiling water, 1 pint; digest for an hour, simmer 10 minutes, and strain. Both are used to improve the growth of and strengthen the hair. 3. To clean the ‘partings' remove scurf, &c.—a. (Antipityeienne.) From sesquicar^ bonate of ammonia, 1 oz.; spirit of rosemary, 1 pint', rose or elder-flower water, 1^ pint. b. (Deteegent essence.) From honey, 2 oz. ; borax, 1 oz. ; cochineal (bruised), i oz.; camphor, 1 dr.; (dissolved in) rectified spirit, 2 fl. oz.; soft water, f pint; oil of rosemary, 20 drops. c. (Vegetable exteact.) Take of salt of tartar, 1 oz.; rosemary waiter, 1 pint; burnt sugar, q. s. to tinge it brown; dissolve, filter, and add of essence of musk, 10 drops. 4. To darken the hair.—a. From pyrogallic acid, ^ oz.; distilled water, orange-flower water, and rectified spirit, of each, 1| fl. oz. b. (La Foeest^s cosmetic lotion or LIQUID HAIE DYE.) Boil, for a few minutes, chloride of sodium, 1 dr., and sulphate of iron, 2 dr., in red wine, 1 lb.; then add of verdigris, 1 dr.; in 2 or 3 minutes remove it from the fire, and further add of powdered galls, 2 dr. j the next day filter. For use, moisten the hair with the liquid; in a few minutes dry it with a cloth, and afterwards wash the skin with water. 5. To prevent the hair falling off.—a. (Ame- EiCAN SHAMPOO LIQUID.) Take of Carbonate of ammonia, i oz.; carbonate of potash, 1 oz.; water, 1 pint; dissolve, and add the solution to a mixture of tincture of cantharides, 5 fl. oz.; rectified spirit, 1 pint; good rum, 3 quarts. Used to strengthen the air and to remove dandruff, by moistening it with the mixture, rubbing, so as to form a lather, and then wash- ing with cold water. b. (Balm of Columbia.) As the last, omit- ting the potash, quadrupling the carbonate of ammonia, and adding some perfume. c. (Eras. Wilson.) Eau de Cologne (strongest), 8 fl. oz.; tincture of cantharides, 1 fl. oz.; oils of rosemary and lavender, of each, ^ fl. dr. d. (De. Locock^S lotion.) From expressed oil of mace (nutmeg), 1 oz., liquefied, at a gentle heat, with olive oil, ^ oz.; and, when cold, formed into an emulsion by agitation with [rose water, pint; spirit of rosemary, 2^ fl. oz.; stronger liquor of ammonia, 1^ fl. dr. For other formulae, see Baldness, Haie DYES, Lotion, &c. Medicinal Washes. See Lotion, &c. Mouth Washes. Syn. Tooth washes; CoLLUTOEiA, L. Prep. 1. Take of camphor (cut small), i oz. ; rectified spirit, 2 fl. oz. ; dissolve. A few drops to be added to a wine- glassful of water, to sweeten the breath and preserve the teeth. 2. Chloride of lime, ^ oz.; water, 2 fl. oz.; agitate well together in a phial for ^ an hour, filter, and add, of rectified spirit, 2 fl. oz.; rose or orange-flower water, 1 fl. oz. Used, highly diluted with water, as the last, by smokers and persons having a foul breath. 3. (in powder), 2 dr.; balsam of Peru, \ dr.; gum, 2 dr., or q. s.; orange-flower water, 6 fl. oz.; tincture of myrrh, 2 fl. dr.; for an emulsion. In loose teeth, &c. 4. Tannin, \ dr.; tincture of tolu, 2 fl. dr.; tincture of myrrh, 6 fl. dr.; spirit of horse- radish, 2 fl. oz.; mix. In spongy gums, scurvy, &c.; diluted with tepid water. 5. (Swediaur.) Borax, i oz.; water and tincture of myrrh, of each, 1 fl. oz.; honey of roses, 2 oz. In tender or ulcerated gums. 6. Balsam of Peru, 2 dr.; camphor, \ dr.; essence of musk and liquor of ammonia, of each, ^ fl. dr.; tincture of myrrh, 3 fl. dr.; spirit of horseradish, 1^ fl. oz. To sweeten andperfumethe breath; ateaspoonful in^ wine- glassful of tepid water, to rinse the mouth with. Tooth Washes. See above. WASHING FLUTDS. Solutions of^ carbo- nate of soda, rendered caustic with quicklime. WASHING POW'DERS. See page 1135. WATCHTULNESS. Syn. Sleeplessness ; Ageypnia, L. The common causes of watch- fulness are thoughtfulness or grief, disordered stomach or bowels, heavy and late suppers, and a deficiency of out-door exercise. The best treatment, in ordinary cases, simply con- sists in an attention to these points. The method of producing sleep recommended by a late celebrated hypnotist consists in merely adopting an easy recumbent position, inclining the head towards the chest, shutting the eyes, and taking several deep inspirations with the mouth closed. Another method, recommended by an eminent surgeon, and w'hich appears in- fallible if persevered in with proper confidence, and which is suitable either to the sitting or recumbent posture, consists in tying a decanter cork with a bright metallic top, a pencil-case, or any other bright object, on the forehead, in such a position that the eyes must be distorted or strained to be capable of seeing it. By resolutely gazing in this way for a short time, without winking, with the mind fully absorbed in the effort, the muscles of the eyes gradu- ally relax, and the experimenter falls asleep. Gazing in a similar manner on an imaginary