606 EXTRACT. repass it through a flannel or horsehair strainer, to remove the flocculi that generally form by the action of the heat and air. This is especially necessary with vegetable solutions prepared without boiling, and should he adopted whenever a smooth and sightly ex- tract is desired. II. Reduction oe Solutions :—The reduc- tion of the solution to the proper consistence is effected by evapoeation. The mode in which this is performed varies for different extracts. The London Colleoe directs that, “ unless otherwise ^ordered, the evaporation should be conducted as quickly as possible, in a broad, shallow pan, placed in a water bath, until a proper consistence is acquired for forming pills; stirring assiduously with a spatula to- wards the end of the operation.” The Dublin College orders that “ all simple (aqueous) ex- tracts (exteacta simplicioea), unless other- wise ordered, are to be prepared by boiling the vegetable matter in 8 times its loeight of water, till the liquid is reduced to one half; the liquor is then to be expressed, and after a short time allowed for defecation, to be decanted, filtered, and evaporated in a steam or water bath, until it begins to thicken, and then finally inspis- sated by a reduced heat, with continual stir- ring until a consistence for forming pills be attained.” The instructions of the Edinbuegh College are similar, with the one important exception, however, of ordering the evapora- tion to be conducted in a water bath, saturated with chloride of sodium. Though the water-bath has the sanction of the London College, it is ill adapted for the purpose to which it is here ordered to be ap- plied, as, from its low evaporative power, the advantages which are derived from its equable temperature are vastly overbalanced by the lengthened exposure of the solution in a heated state to the action of the atmosphere. It has been shown that a vegetable extract so pre- pared is inferior in quality to a similar one formed by rapid evaporation in a shallow pan over a naked fire, or placed in a sand bath, provided proper care is taken, and assiduous stirring is adopted during the whole time of the exposure to heat. In practice, however, the use of a naked fire is perfectly inadmissible, as the least neglect on the part of the operator would probably lead to the incineration of the whole. These objections are obviated by the addition of the ^th part of salt to the water of the bath, which raises its boiling-point to 218|° Fahr., when the temperature of the contained extract is fully 212°; the remaining 6° being lost by the interposition of the substance of the evaporating vessel. On the laege scale, the evaporation of infusions or decoctions for extracts is usually conducted in very wide, shallow, copper or tinned-copper j)ans, having steam-tight jackets of cast iron, and heated by steam ‘playing’ between the two. The rapid deterioration which vegetable juices and solutions undergo by exposure to the air, especially at high temperatures, has led to the - introduction of apparatus, by which they may f be concentrated without contact with the at- mosphere, and at a less degree of heat than is required for that purpose in open vessels. Such is the method, commonly called ‘ Barry’s i, process,’ in which the air is removed from cer- i tain air-tight refrigerators by the introduction h of steam, which is then condensed by the appli- 1 cation of cold, by which means a partial vacuum ' ( is obtained. Another process for attenuating ; the atmosphere over the surface of fluids dur- ing evaporation is by the action of an air- pump. This plan was introduced by Howard, j| and is eommonly applied to the concentration ij of syrups in the sugar refineries. Extracts ;| obtained by either of these methods are said to i be prepared ‘ in vacuo* and are found in prac- tice to be immensely superior to the common i extracts of the shops, and consequently require ' to be exhibited in proportionably small doses. Obs. When water, acidulated with acetic acid, is employed in the preparation of extracts, the vegetable substances are usually macerated in i it, in the cold, or the dilute acid is sprinkled over the bruised plant in the fresh or recent state, and the whole is then submitted to strong pressure, to expel the juice, which is strained and evaporated in the usual way, but prefer- ably in a well-tinned or plated-copper pan. Alcoholic and spieituotjs exteacts are prepared by evaporating a filtered concen- trated tincture of the ingredients in any suit- able vessel, by which the volatilized spirit may be saved. In general, rectified spirit is used i as the menstruum; but in some cases proof spirit isj employed; and, in others, the sub- stances are first digested in proof spirit, and afterwards in water, and the mixed tincture i and infusion evaporated in the usual manner. ) Etheeeal exteacts are obtained in a si- milar manner to alcoholic ones; but being merely prepared in small quantities at a time, the process may be conveniently performed in glass vessels. When it is required to boil either of the above fluids, {alcoholic or ethe- real) or any other volatile liquid on the in- gredients, a vessel fitted with a long tube, or a Liebig’s refrigerator reversed, as noticed under ether, may be used to prevent any loss of the menstruum. The insbissated vegetable juices are classed with extracts by the London College, and are ordered to be prepared by evaporating the expressed juice, without filtration, in a water bath. The directions of the Edinburgh College for preparing their inspissated juices (succi SPISSATI, L.) are—“ Beat the fresh substance, and press it strongly through a canvas bag, in order to obtain the juice; which, being put into a wide, shallow vessel, and heated by means of boiling water saturated with sea-salt, is to be reduced to the consis- tence of honey. The mass, when cold, is to be put into glazed earthen vessels, and