1327 WATERS (EYE). tamination from contact with either copper, lead, or zinc, since these metals are gradually oxidized and dissolved by them. In preparing them from the essential oils, silica, in impal- pable powder, is the best substance that can be employed to promote the division and diffu- sion of the oil, as directed in the Ph. L. Mag- nesia and sugar, formerly used for the purpose, are objectionable; as the first not only decom- poses a portion of the oil, but the water is apt to dissolve a little of it, and is hence rendered unfit to be used as a solvent for metallic salts, more especially for corrosive sublimate and nitrate of silver; whilst the other causes the water to ferment and acetify. In the distillation of waters intended for perfumery, the utmost care is requisite to produce a highly fragrant article. The still should be furnished with a high and narrow neck, and the heat of steam, or a salt-water bath, should alone be employed. The first 2 or 3 fi. oz. of the runnings should be rejected, except whefl spirit is used, and the remainder collected until the proper quantity be ob- tained, when the whole product should be mixed together, as distilled waters pro- gressively decrease in strength the longer the process is continued. When a very superior article is desired, the waters may be re- distilled by a gentle heat, the first two thirds only being preserved. The herbaceous odour of recently distilled waters is removed by keep- ing them for some months, loosely covered, in a cold cellar. When distilled waters have been carefully prepared, so that none of the liquor in the still has ‘spirted’ over into the condensing worm, they keep well, and are not liable to change; but when the reverse is the case, they frequently become ropy and viscid. The best remedy for this is to redistil them. Waters which have acquired a burnt smell in the ‘ stilling’ lose it by freezing. Distilled waters may be prevented from turning sour by adding a little calcined magnesia to them, and those which have begun to spoil may be recovered by adding 1 gr. each of borax and alum to the pint. This doctoring is not, however, to be recommended, and should never be adopted for those used in medicine. A drop of solution of terchloride of gold added to these waters shows whether they contain any uncombined essential oil, by forming, in that case, a fine metallic film on the surface. After distilled waters have acquired their full odour, they should be carefully preserved in well-stopped bottles. Some houses keep a separate still for each of the more delicate perfumed waters, as it is extremely diflBcult to remove any odour that adheres to the body of the still and worm. The addition of the small quantity of spirit ordered in the Ph. E., and Ph. L. 1836, in the preparation of their waters, in no way tends to promote their preservation. In general, the druggists draw off 2 gall., or more, of water from the quantities of the herbs, barks, seeds, or flowers, ordered in the Pharmacopoeias ; hence the inferior quality of the waters of the shops. They do, however, very well for vehicles. The perfumers, on the contrary, use an excess of flowers, or at least reserve only the first and stronger portion of the water that distils over, the remainder being collected and used for a second distil- lation of fresh flowers. The most beautiful distilled waters are those prepared in the south of France, and which are imported into England under the French names. Thus eau de eose, eatj de eletjrs d’oeang-es, &c., are immensely superior to the best English rose or orange-flower water, &c. The water that distils over in the preparation of the essential oils is usually of the strongest and finest class. See Essence, Oils (Vo- latile), Spirits (Perfumed)^ Vegetables, &c. WATERS (Eye). Syn. Collyeia, L. Prep. 1. From distilled vinegar, 1 fl. oz.; distilled water, ^ pint. ^ fl. oz. of rectified spirit, or 1 fl. oz. of brandy, is often added. In simple chronic ophthalmia, blear eyes, &c., also to re- move particles of lime from the eyes. 2. Sugar of lead, 10 gr.; pure vinegar, \ tea- spoonful ; distilled Water, ^ pint. In ophthal- mia, as soon as active inflammation ceases; also as the last. 3. M'ine of opium, 2 fl. dr.; sulphate of zinc, 20 gr.; distilled water, \ pint* Astringent and anodyne; in painful ophthalmia and extreme irritability. 4. Opium, 15 gr.; boiling water, 8 fl. oz.; when cold, add of solution of acetate of ammo- nia, 2\ fl. oz., and filter. As the last. 5. Sulphate of zinc, 20 gr.; distilled water, i pint; dissolve. An excellent astringent water in chronic ophthalmia, weak and irritable eyes, &c. 6. Sulphate of copper, 10 gr.; camphor mixture (julep), ^ pint; dissolve. In the purulent ophthalmia of infants. 7. Camphor julep, 5 fl. oz.; solution of ace- tate of ammonia and rose water, of each, 2^ fl. oz.; mix. For weak or swollen eyes, particu- larly after ophthalmia. 8. Chloride of barium, 30 gr.; distilled water, ^ pint. In the ophthalmia of scrofulous and syphilitic habits. 9. (Bate’s.) From blue vitriol, 15 gr.; camphor, 4 gr.; hot water, i pint; agitate in a corked bottle, and, when cold, make it up to 4 pints, and filter. In purulent ophthalmia and blear eyes. 10. (Goulard’s.) From solution of diacetate of lead, 16 drops; distilled water, ^ pint; mix. As No. 2. 11. (Krimer.) Hydrochloric acid, 20 drops; mucilage, 1 dr.; water, 2 fl. oz. To remove particles of iron or lime from the eye. 12. (Marshall’s ‘eye-drops.’) Nitrate of silver, 2 gr.; dilute nitric acid, 2 drops; pure soft or distilled water, 1 fl. oz.; dissolve; add powdered gum, 15 gr.; agitate until dissolved, and the next day decant the clear portion.