CHROMIUM. 445 I tion of pure chromic acid, it should he washed I several times. e. (Chas. Watt, Jun.) From chromate of lime, by the action of an equivalent propor- tion of sulphuric acid diluted with water. This process has the great recommendation of i cheapness, and Mr. Watt says that he em- ployed it in the factory of Messrs. Hawes, for above two years, with perfect success. Prop., 4*0. Chromic acid forms ruby-red crystals, soluble in water and alcohol. It is acrid, irritant, and caustic; stains the skin I yeUow, and when concentrated destroys it; I decomposed by the action of light and contact I with organic matter. Hence it should be kept , in stoppered glass bottles, and its solution fil- ■ tered through asbestos or powdered glass only. The ease with which it parts with a portion of its oxygen, and passes into the state of the I green sesquioxide, constitutes its value as a I bleaching agent. It is largely employed in the arts, in calico-printing, bleaching of textile fabrics, tallow, oils, &c., and in dj'^eing. “A solution of chromic acid in oil of vitriol is pre- ferable as an oxidizing agent to every other at present known."’ (Ure.) It has been recently highly extolled as a caustic in surgery, as, “when rightly managed, it does not spread be- yond the prescribed limits; and so soon as its erosive operation is finished, passes into the state of inert, pulverulent sesquioxide.” CHEO'MIUM. A metal discovered in native chromate of lead by Vauquelinin 1797. It is [ found in the state of oxide, combined with oxide of iron, in some abundance, in the Shet- land Islands, and elsewhere; as chromate of lead, it constitutes a very beautiful material. [ Prep. 1. (Vauquelin.) Dry chloride of ^ chromium is mixed with oil, the paste placed ^in a crucible lined with charcoal, the cover luted on, and the whole exposed for an hour to an intense heat. The product is a half- fused mass, whitish-yellow, with a metallic lustre. 2. (Liebig.) Heat the compound of ter- chloride of chromium and ammonia to redness, and expose it to a current of dry ammoniacal gas. 3. Crude oxide of chromium, 5 parts; pow- dered charcoal, 1 part; expose the mixture to an intense heat, in a lined crucible, as before. 4. (Deville.) By reducing pure sesquioxide I of chromium with an insufficient quantity of I charcoal in a lime crucible. As thus prepared, the metal is less fusible than platinum, and ! as hard as corundum. [ 5. (Fremy.) By the action of the vapour of sodium or sesquichloride of chromium at a red heat. The metal appears in the form of small cubic crystals. They resist the action of con- centrated acids, even of aqua regia. Ohs. Metallic chromium has not yet been I applied to any use in the arts. Ohio "rides of Chro'mium. Two chlorides of i chromium are described by chemists :— I 1. Protochlo"ride of Chro'mium. Prep. From the violet-coloured sesquichloride of chromium, placed in a glass or porcelain tube, heated to redness, and exposed to a stream of perfectly dry and pure hydrogen gas. A white, foliated mass, soluble in water (evolving much heat), and yielding a blue solution, which absorbs atmospheric oxygen with astonishing rapidity, acquiring a deep-green colour, and passing into the state of oxychloride of chromium. It is the most powerful reducing or deoxidizing agent known. 2. Sesquichlo"ride of Chro'mium. Syn. Chlo- EIDE OP C. Prep.—a. Dissolve hydrated oxide of chromium in hydrochloric acid, and evapo- rate to dryness. b. Digest chromate of lead in hydrochloric acid mixed with a little alcohol, and throw down the excess of lead with sulphuretted hydrogen. c. Pass dry chlorine over a mixture of ses- quioxide of chromium and charcoal, heated to redness, in a porcelain tube. The chloride collects as a sublimate, of a peach or violet colour, in the cool part of the tube. Ohs. By the first process the product is a green powder, which when heated to 400° be- comes purplish-red, and then forms pure, dry chloride of chromium. The heating process should be performed in a tube filled with car- bonic acid gas. The product of the third pro- cess is also chemically pure. According to M. Peligot, it is totally insoluble in water, under ordinary circumstances, even at a boiling heat. It dissolves, however, and assumes the deep-green hydrated state in water containing an exceedingly minute quantity of protochlo- ride of chromium in solution. The hydration is marked by the evolution of much heat, and may be referred to the peculiar class of actions which are included under the name of kata- LTSis by modern chemists. Flu'orides of Chro'mium. Syn. Htdeopltj'- OEATES OF CHEO'MirM. Two of these deserve notice here:— 1. Sesquiflu'oride of Chro'mium. From hy- drated oxide of chromium dissolved in hydro- fluoric acid, and the solution evaporated. A crystalline, green mass. 2. Perflu'oride of Chro'mium. Syn. Ga'- SEOUS F. OF c., Fluoecheo'mic ACID. From fluor spar, 3 parts; chromate of lead, 4 parts; fuming (or the strongest) sulphuric acid, 5 parts; mixed cautiously, in a silver or leaden retort. A red-coloured gas is evolved, which acts rapidly on glass, forming fluosilicic acid gas, and upon water, forming hydrofluoric acid and chromic acid. The moisture of the atmo- sphere is sufficient to effect the decomposition last referred to; the former substance escaping as gas, and the latter being deposited in small crystals. See Cheomic Acid. Ox'ides of Chro'mium. Chromium forms several well-defined compounds with oxygen. The higher oxides of chromium are described under the heads Cheomic Acid and Pee- CHEOMic Acid ; the lower ones we will now proceed to describe. 1