562 ENCAUSTIC—ENEMA. either of the above forms will produce a paste ■ that will rival the opal. Yellow Enamel. Superior yellow enamels are less easily produced than those of most other colours; they require very little flux, and that mostly of a metallic nature. The following come highly recommended by experienced artists: — Pr^p. 1. From or ‘flux' fused with oxide of lead, and a little red oxide of iron. 2. Lead, tin ashes, litharge, antimony, and sand, of each, 1 oz.; nitre, 4 oz.; mix, fuse, and powder; and add the product to ‘flux’ or ‘frit,’ q. 8. 3. White oxide of antimony, alum, and sal ammoniac, of each, 1 part] pure carbonate of lead, 1 to 3 parts, or q. s. (all in powder); mix, and expose them to a heat suiRciently high to decompose the sal ammoniac. Used as the last. Very bright coloured. 4. (Wynn.) Red lead, 8 oz.; oxide of anti- mony, and tin, calcined together, of each, 1 oz.; mix, and add of ‘flux’ (No. 5), 15 oz.-, mix ■well and fuse. 5. Pure oxide of silver added to the metallic ‘fluxes.’ The salts of silver are also used, but are more difficult to manage. If a thin film of oxide of silver be spread over the surface of the enamel to be coloured, exposed to a mo- derate heat, then withdrawn, and the film of reduced silver on the surface removed, the part under will be found tinged of a fine yellow. (Clouet.) ENCAU'STIC. See Painting (Encaustic). ENE'MA. Syn. Clyster; En'ema {pi. Enem'ata), L. a medicine, usually liquid {sometimes gaseous), thrown into the rectum or lower bowels. Clysters usually consist of some wea/c gluti- nous or mucilaginous fluid, to which the active ingredients are added; or a decoction or infu- sion is made of the medicaments, which is then used, either alone, or after the addition of a little gum, starch, or sugar. The proper vehicle for astringent vegetable matter, metallic salts, and the mineral acids, is pure water. Olea- ginous and resinous substances are made into emulsions before being employed for enemas. In a,ll cases the fluid is administered warm. The quantity of fluid forming a clyster, for an ADULT, may vary from to f pint; that for an INFANT within a month old, should be about 1 fl. oz.; for a child of one year, about fl. oz.; from one to seven years, from 3 or 4 fl. oz.; and from seven to twelve or fourteen, 6 or 7 fl. oz.; after that age to puberty, \ pint may be employed. The quantity or dose of the active ingredients in a clyster, should be 4 or 5 times as great as that of the same medicines when taken by the mouth; as it is generally regarded that the susceptibility of the rectum is only 1th that of the stomach, and that to exert a like absorbent action it occupies 5 times as long as the latter viscus. The dose, and the interval between its repetition, should, therefore, be proportionately increased. Narcotics, as opium, tobacco, &c., | f should, however, be given in only twice or thrice the quantity that w’ould be exhibited in 1 I the usual manner. | Enemata are usually administered by means i ■ of a syringe, bladder, or elastic bag, furnished I with a rectum tube; but many ingenious and 1 i elegant pieces of mechanism, adapted for self- j . administration, are made by the instrument j > makers. Great care should be taken to avoid , injuring the coats of the rectum by the use of , a rough or improperly shaped pipe, or one that , i is too long. The extremity of the pipe or tube . should also he perfectly smooth and well rounded ' (rather spherical than pointed), and in using it no force should be employed. A neglect of this point often produces very serious conse- , quences, especially in young children. Tobacco smoke may be administered by means of a double pair of bellows, supplied with air from a small funnel under which the herb is burning,—and gaseous matter, by connecting the rectum tube with a small gasometer, exerting a trifling pressure on the confined gas. The number of substances employed in the preparation of enemata is very great. The i following are some of them, arranged according i to their effects:— 1. (Anodyne and Narcotic.) Opium, henbane, i &c., are employed to allay spasms of the bowels, > stomach, uterus, bladder, &c. 2. (Aperient or Cathartic.) Aloes, colocynth, senna, various purging salts, gruel, decoction of ■ marshmallows, decoction of linseed, warm water, &c., are commonly employed to promote the i peristaltic action of the bowels, or to destroy I worms. I 3. (Demulcent and Emollient.) Decoction of starch, gum, isinglass, glue, &c., either alo?ie i or combined with opium, are used to protect • ! the coats of the intestines, and to allay irrita- : tion ; and also to restrain diarrhoea, especially when combined with astringents, as logwood, catechu, or oak hark. 4. (Nutrient.) Animal jelly, soups, broths, milks, &c., are frequently used as injections to convey nourishment to the body. 5. (Sedative.) Tobacco infusion or smoke, and tartar emetic (in solution), are employed to relax the powers of the body, to remove spasms, depress the circulation, and to produce syncope. Enemata or clysters are now very frequently employed in our large towns, especially among the higher classes; but a great prejudice exists among many persons against their use, arising from a fastidious and mistaken delicacy. The introduction of improved apparatus of late years, by which the administration of these remedies is attended with less difficulty and exposure than formerly, has removed much of the repugnance which previously existed. Clysters are invaluable when it is necessary to evacuate the bowels as speedily as possible, and when the stomach will not bear the ad-