EXTKACT. 614 in the laboratory generally. Many houses do not even remove the seeds. Obs. This extract rapidly gets hard, crumbly, and mouldy, by keeping. For the remedy, see observations on exteact oe col- CHICUM, above. Dose. 5 gr. to 20 gr.; as a cathartic. Colocynth pulp yields about 65§ of extract. 3. (Alcoholic; Exteactum coiocyxthieis ALCOHOLiCEM, L.)—«. (Ph. Baden.) As ex- teact OE ANGELICA—Ph. Bad. b. (P; Cod.) From a tincture prepared with ptroof spirit. Much more active than the simple extract. Dose. 2 to 7 gr. ' 4. (Dry; Exteactum colocynthieis SICCTJM, L.—Ph. Bor.) As the last, but using spirit of the sp. gr. ‘900 (about 16 o. p.), digesting at a tepid heat, evaporating to dry- ness, and powdering. Dose. 1 to 6 gr. Extract of Colocynth (Compound). Syn. COMPOEND EXTEACT OE BITTEE APPLE, CA- THAETIC EXTEACT; EXTEACTEM CATHAETI- CEM, E. COLOCYNTHIDIS COMPOSITEM, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Colocynth pulp (sliced, without the seeds), 6 ot.., proof spirit, 1 gall.; digest with a gentle heat for 4 days, express, strain, and add, of extract of aloes (Ph. L. 1836)', 12 oz., powdered scammony, 4 oz., Castile soap (cut small), 3 oz., and evaporate (distil) to a proper consistence; adding, towards the last, powdered cardamoms, 1 oz. 2. (Ph. D. 1826.) As the last, but using hepatic aloes in lieu of the aqueous extract. 3. (Wholesale.) The formula3 adopted by the wholesale druggists are mere modifications of that of the Ph. L. 1809 ; water being used instead of spirit as the menstruum, with actual benefit, as we honestly believe, to the quality of the preparation. The following are extensively employed by those who do most in this article, and we can speak highly of the quality of the products obtained by their use. a. Turkey colocynth, 18 lb., is boiled in about 20 times its weight of water for five or six hours; toihe strained decoctioni^ added hepatic aloes, 40 lb., which are boiled until dissolved, when the solution is decanted. In the mean time the colocynth is exhausted with a second quantity of water (less than the first), and the strained liquor is added to the undis- solved residuum of the aloes, and boiled for a few minutes; after which it is drawn off and mixed with the first decoction of aloes; the mixed liquors are then allowed to stand until quite cold (commonly until the next day), to deposit the resinous portion. The liquor is next decanted or drawn off, and set evaj)o- rating as quickly as possible; as soon as the consistence of treacle is arrived at, the whole is allowed to cool considerably, and moist sugar (clean), 4 lb., and Castile soap, 10 lb. (pre- viously melted with a little water), are added; powdered scammony, 6 lb., is next gradually sifted in, the extract all the time being assidu- ously stirred by a second person. Lastly, the beat is further moderated, and the stirring continued until a rather harder consistence is acquired than is proper for the extract, when the steam is wholly ‘ shut off,’ or the vessel removed from the heat, and as soon as the whole has become sufficiently cool to pre- vent any considerable evaporation of the spirit, essence of cardamoms, 2 lb. (say, 1 quart), is expertly stirred in; and the extract at once (whilst still warm) put into stone jars or pots, and tied or covered over, for store or use. The product is usually labelled ‘ Ext. Colo- cynth. Comp. Opt.^ It looks weU, and smells very aromatic, and is really an excellent pre- paration. b. Turkey colocynth, 2^ lb.; hepatic aloes, lb.; powdered scammony, lb.; porvdered cardamoms, 6 oz. (or essence, ^ pint); Castile soap (genuine), 1 lb. 2 oz.; pale moist sugar, ^ lb.; proceed as last. This produces a beau- tiful article, and of unquestionable quality, equally effective, and milder in its action than the College preparation. It is labelled and sent out as Ext. Colocynth. Comp. Ph. L. (1836). 4. (Ph, L. 1809.) Colocynth, 6 dr. (6 parts); aloes, 1|^ oz. (12 parts); scammony, ^ oz. (4 parts); hard soap, 3 dr. (3 parts) ; cardamoms, 1 dr. (1 part); as No. 3, a (nearly). Qual., 8fc. Compound extract of colocynth is often adulterated with acrid cathartics to make uj) for the deficiency or inferiority of its proper ingredients, and foreign matter often becomes mixed with it by the use of impure scammony. The presence of Cape ALOES may usually be detected by the nau- seous odour; CHALK (an article frequently present in bad scammony), by placing a little ball of the extract in a glass tube, and pouring over it some dilute hydrochloric or acetic acid, when an effervescence will ensue, if that sub- stance be present; jalap, scammony adulte- rated with EECELA, and other staechy sub- stances, by the filtered decoction of the ex- tract turning blue on the addition of tincture of iodine ; GAMBOGE, by the decoction becoming deep red on the addition of liquor of potassa, and by a filtered alcoholic solution of the extract forming a yellow emulsion with water, which becomes transparent and assumes a deep-red colour on the addition of caustic potassa ; and further, by this solution (if the alkali is not in excess) giving a yellow preci- pitate with acids and with acetate of lead, a brown precipitate with sulphate of copper, and a very dark brown one with the salts of iron; also by the ethereal solution of the extract dropped on water yielding an opaque yellow film, soluble in caustic potassa, if it contains gamboge. Dose. 3 gr. to 15 gr. It is a safe and mild, yet certain, purgative. It may be mixed with calomel without the latter being decomposed. 2^ or 3 gr., mixed with an equal weight of blue pill and taken overnight, forms an excellent aperient in dyspepsia, liver complaints, &c. See Abeenethy Mehicine.s,