161 AMUSEMENTS—AMYGDALINE. have formed part of the true cross. This con- tinued to the end of the fourth century, at 1 which time a greater number of such pre- * tended relics had been produced, than would have loaded a first-class ship of war. In more modern times scraps of paper or parch- j 1 ment inscribed with verses from the Bible, or with magical characters, abracadabra, and other meanless jargon, have been used for the same purpose. The celebrated talismanic ) medals of the Arabians are of this class, and derive their name (ain) from the first letter of the inscription, which always begins with this character. “ They have been sanctioned by religion and astrology, and even in (com- paratively) modern times by medical and other sciences. The pope and catholic clergy make and sell amulets and charms even to this day.” (Ashe.) Amongst the uneducated and superstitious of some nations, otherwise highly polished and enlightened, they still continue in common use. We need scarcely remark, that the protective and curative power of amulets depends entirely on the imagination of the wearer. They have therefore been wisely discarded by all except the most igno- rant, credulous, and weak-minded. Anodyne necklacesy and appensa generally, though until lately even sanctioned by the faculty, and still commonly recommended by empirics, are mere amulets employed under other names. Cam- phor y when worn as a protective against fevers, cholera, and other contagious diseases, also belongs to the same class. See Abeacadabea, Appensa, Ckaems, Philtee, Talisman, &c. AMUSE'MENTS. [Eng., Fr.] Things which amuse, detain, or engage the mind, or which furnish pleasurable occupation for the senses; pastimes. In their relations to hygieney see Employment, Health, Occupation, &c. AMYG'DALATE (-mig'-). Syn. Amygda- la'tus, L. Made of almonds, or containing them as a characteristic ingredient* (amyg'- dalated) ; as a substantivcy emulsion or milk of almonds*. In chemistryy a compound of amygdalic acid and a base. AMYGDAL'IC ACID. Syn. Amygdalin'ic Acid ; Acidum amygdal'icum, L. ; Acide AMYGDALIQUE, Fr. A Compound first ob- tained, by AVohler and Liebig, from the bitter almond. Prep. Dissolve amygdaline in baryta-watery and boil the solution in a glass vessel as long as fumes of ‘ ammonia' are evolved; next add dilute sulphuric acid until it ceases to occa- sion a precipitate, carefully avoiding excess; ! lastly, filter, and evaporate the clear liquid to dryness in a water-bath. Prop.y ^‘c. A colourless, transparent, amor phous mass; taste and reaction, acid; very . soluble in water; insoluble in either alcohol or ® ether; deliquescent in damp air; oxidising agents convert it into oil of hitter almonds, formic acid and benzoic acid. With the bases it forms soluble salts amyg'dalates, amyg- dali'nates) which have been little studied. AMYG'DALINE. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. AmTde OF AMYGDAL'IC ACID* ; AmYGDALI'NA, L. A compound discovered by Robiquet and Boutron-Charlard in the cherry laurel and bitter almond. Prep. 1. Bitter almond caJce (from which the ‘oil’ has been thoroughly expressed) is reduced to powder, and exhausted by digestion, twice or oftener, in boiling alcohol of 90 to 95g; the residuum being finally subjected to strong pressure, in the usual manner. The mixed ‘tinctures’ and ‘pressings’ are next passed through a cloth-filtery and allowed to repose for a few hours, in a covered vessel or ‘ separator;’ after wdiich any ‘ oil ’ that may be found floating on the surface, is carefully removed either by skimming or by decanta- tion. The tincture is now placed in a retort, or in a flask furnished with a bent tube, and about 5-6ths of the ‘ alcohol’ distilled off into a suitable receiver. The ‘residual liquor’in the retort having become quite cold, is mixed with about half its volume of eihery when the AMYGDALINE Separates under the form of a crystalline precipitate. This is carefully col- lected in a cloth, and after being drained and pressed between folds of ‘bibulous paper,’ is lastly purified by re-solutions in boiling con- centrated alcohol, from which it crystallises as the liquid cools. 2. The mixed tincture (obtained as above) is submitted to distillation, to remove the ‘alcohol;’ the ‘syrupy residuum’ is diluted with water, and a little yeast being added, the whole is fermented for a short time in order to get rid of some of the sugar present; after the fermentation has ceased, the filtered liquid is evaporated in a water-bath to the consis- tence of syrup, and allowed to cool; cold alcohol of 90 to 95§ is now added, and the resulting precipitate collected and purified as before.— Prod, (of either process). About 3g of the almond-cake employed; ^Ib. of bitter almonds yielded Liebig 1 oz. of pure amyg- daline. Prop., &^‘c. Anhydrous, silken, crystalline, scales, or short needles, of pearly whiteness— when crystallised from alcohol; colourless, transparent prisms, containing 6 equiv. of w’ater of crystallisation—when obtained from a watery solution; almost scentless; taste, very slightly sweet and nutty; very soluble in water, less so in hot alcohol, scarcely soluble in cold alcohol, and insoluble in ether; added, in solution, to milk of almonds, it reacts on the emulsine, and causes the formation of hy- drocyanic acid and essential oil of almonds; heat decomposes it with the evolution of the odour of hawthorn; heated with alkaline solu- tions it evolves ammonia, and is transformed into AMYGDALIC ACID. Amygdaline is highly interesting, in a scien- tific point of view, for the changes it operates in solutions of emulsine, and vegetable matters containing it. A mixture of amygdaline, 17 gr., and emulsion of sweet almonds, 1^ fl. oz.; gives I 11