802 ISOMORPHISM -IVORY. their chemical properties; thus,‘formate of ethyl ’ and ‘ acetate of methyl ’ are isomeric, having precisely the same ultimate compo- sition, though differing in the arrangement of their elements. ISOMORPHISM. In chemistry, the quality possessed by bodies difterently composed of assuming the same crystalline form. Isomor- phous substances are found to be closely allied in their chemical nature; and the fact of two bodies crystallizing in the same fonn has often led to the discovery of other points of similarity between them. The alums, for instance, no matter what their components, all crystallize in octahedra, and a crystal of potassa-alum, if transferred to a solution of chrome-alum, will continue to increase with perfect regularity from the deposition of the latter salt. IS'SUE. Syn. Fonticulus, L. In surgery, a small artificial ulcer formed on any part of the body by means of caustic or the lancet, and kept open by daily introducing an issue PEA covered with some digestive or stimulating ointment; the whole being duly secured by an appropriate bandage. ISSUE PEAS. Syn. PiSiE peo ponticulis, L. Those of the shops are the immature fruit of the orange tree (OEANUE BEEEIES). They are usually smoothed in a lathe. Issue peas are also ‘ turned ’ from orris root. The fol- lowing compound issue peas are occasionally employed:— 1. Orris root (in powder) and Venice tur- pentine, of each, 1 part; turmeric, 2 parts; bees' wax, 3 parts; melted together and made into peas whilst warm. 2. Bees' wax, 3 parts; melt, add of Venice turpentine, 1 part; mix, and further add, of turmeric, 2 parts; orris root (in powder), 1 part; mix well, and form the mass into peas whilst warm. More irritating than the com- mon peas. 3. (Dr. Gray.) Bees' wax, 12 parts; ver- digris and white hellebore, of each, 4 parts; orris root, 3 parts; cantharides, 2 parts; Venice turpentine, q. s. Used to open issues nstead of caustic, hut their employment re- quires care. ISSUE PLASTERS. See Plastees. ITACONTC ACID. An acid compound, formed along with citeaconic acid, by the action of heat on aconitic acid. ITCH. Syn. Youk J, Scotch piddle J ; PsoEA, Scabies, L. ; Gale, Fr. In pathology, a cutaneous disease, caused by a minute insect lodging under the skin, and readily commu- nicated by contact. There are four varieties of itch, distinguished by nosologists by the names—scabies papulformis, or rank itch;— scabies lymphalica, or watery itch;—scabies purulenta, or pocky itch; scabies cachectica, a species exhibiting appearances resembling each of the previous varieties. Our space will not permit more than a general notice of the common symptoms, and the mode of cure which is equally applicable to each species, and win not prove injurious to other skin , diseases simulating the itch. The common itch consists of an eruption of minute vesicles, principally between the fingers, bend of the wrist, &c., accompanied by intense itching of the parts, which is only aggravated by scratching. The usual treat- ment is repeated applications of sulphur-oint- ment (simple or compound), well rubbed in, once or twice a day, until a cure is effected; accompanying its use by the internal exhi- bition of a spoonful or more of flowers of sulphur, mixed with treacle or milk, night and morning. Where the use of sulphur-ointment is objectionable, a sulphur bath, or a lotion or bath of sulphuret of potassium, or of chloride of lime, may be employed instead. See Bath, Lotion (Itch), Ointment, Psoeiasis, &c. I'VORY. Theosseous portion of the tusks and teeth of the male elephant, the hippopotamus, wild boar, &c. That of the narwhal or sea- horse is the most esteemed, on account of its superior hardness, toughness, translucency, , and whiteness. The dust or shavings (ivoey DUST, IVOEY shavings) of the turner form a i beautiful size or jelly when boiled in water. Vegetable ivoey is the hard albumen of the ! seed of the Phytelephas macrocarpa, one of the |, Palm family. i Ivory may be dyed or stained by any of the i ordinary methods employed for woollen, after being freed from dirt and grease; but more quickly as follows :— 1. Black. The ivory, well washed in an i: alkaline lye, is steeped in a weak neutral .solu- tion of nitrate of silver, and then exposed to i the light, or dried and dipped into a weak so- i lution of hydrosulphate of ammonia. . | 2. Blue. Steep it in a weak solution oj ^ sulphate of indigo which has been nearly neu- 1 tralized with salt of tartar, or in a solution ] of soluble Prussian blue. A still better plan j is to steep it in the dyer's green indigo-vat. 3. Beown. As for black, but using a weaker solution of silver. j 4. Geeen. Dissolve verdigris in vinegar, i and steep the pieces therein for a short time, i observing to use a glass or stoneware vessel; j or, in a solution of verdigris, 2 parts, and sal ( ammoniac, 1 part, in soft water. 5. PuEPLE. Steep it in a weak neutral so- \ lution of terchloride of gold, and then expose it ’i to the light. 6. Red. Make an infusion of cochineal in i liquor of ammonia, then immerse the pieces i therein, having previously soaked them for a 1 few minutes in water very slightly acidulated d with aquafortis. 7. Yellow.—a. Steep the pieces for some i hours in a solution of sugar of lead, then take t them out, and when dry, immerse them in a i solution of chromate of polassa. h. Dissolve as much of the best orpiment in liquor of ammonia as it will take up, then i steep the pieces therein for some hours;