94 ALKALIMETRY. and in other similar cases, having reference to their particular application. ALKALIM'ETRY. Syn. Alkalime'teia, L. ; Alcalimetrie, Fr. In chemistry, the estima- tion of the strength of the commercial alkalies; the art or process of determining the quantity or proportion of pure caustic alkali, or of its carbonate, in any given sample or simple so- lution. It is the reverse of ‘ acidimetry •’ and it should be understood that it does not apply to alkalies occurring under any other form or condition than those just mentioned. Alkalimetric assays are now also frequently and conveniently extended to the estimation of the alkaline earths and their carbonates, as hereafter noti(;ed. Hist., 8(‘c. The arts of acidimetry and al- kalimetry are of modern date; in their im- proved forms they are scarcely so old as the present century. Descroizilles first shewed the use of a graduated alkalimeter, and gave minute directions for its management. (“ An- nates de Chimie,” 1806.) A few years after- wards, Dr. Ure demonstrated the advantages of the centigrade system of graduation, and the employment of a test liquor that should represent the absolute amount of acid or alkali in any commercial sample, instead of the mere relative value, as in the method of Descroi- zilles. (“ Lectures,” 1815.) The laws of che- mical combinations and proportions developed by the atomic theory of Dalton have since led to the invention of numerous contrivances and improvements in these important arts, tending to increase their accuracy and practical value. Formerly the soap-boilers estimated the strength of their ashes by merely pouring a quart of water on a pound of them, and throw- ing in a piece of Dutch soap, added fresh water, in small portions at a time, until it sank. The more water required to eifect this objeet, the richer the ashes were supposed to he in alkali. This plan, even now, has not wholly fallen into disuse among the smaller manufac- turers in the provinces. Alkalimetry has of late years engaged the attention of some of the most eminent chemists, and by following their suggestions, the ‘richness’ of the com- mercial alkalies may he readily and accurately determined. Alkalimetrical processes. These, like those of ‘ acidimetry,’ are for the most part founded on—the capacity of the bases to saturate acids —the estimation of the quantity of dry car- bonic acid liberated from a given weight of an alkaline carbonate under the influence of a stronger acid; and, in the case of the pure alkalies—the sp. gr. of their solutions. From any one of these results the exact amount of alkali, or of alkaline carbonate, present in a sample, is easily found or calculated. These processes are, indeed, precisely similar to those described under Acidimetry ; hut here the unknown quantity sought is the alkali, instead of the acid. The test liquid commonly used in the first method referred to, is dilute sul- phuric acid. In the second method, concen- trated sulphuric acid is employed. The ordi- nary glasses, tubes, ^c., from which the test- acid is poured, and by which the quantity consumed is either ‘ weighed ’ or ‘ measured ’ —ALKALiMETERS, as they are called when used for this purpose—are figured and de- scribed at pages 22-3, 33. The apparatus commonly employed in the other methods are figured and described at pages 34-6; and two or three modifications of both classes of alka- limeters are noticed below. The following are the details of the most approved methods , of procedure :— Preliminary operations :— Sampling, S(c. In commerce, the crude ALKALIES are found packed in casks; in their partly purified forms, in casks or jars. In a number of casks, the common practice is to test at least 2-3rds of them; but when there is sufiicient time, and great accuracy is desired, the whole are sampled and examined. The ' SAMPLE is drawn from as near the centre of the cask as possible, and at once placed in a wide-mouthed bottle, which is then closely corked up, and numbered. Before proceeding to the assay, the contents of the bottle are thrown on a piece of dry paper, the lumps crushed small, and the whole reduced to coarse powder as rapidly as possible. The number of grains required for the trial (100, or some aliquot part thereof, when not otherwise ordered) are then at once weighed. The weighed quantity is next placed in a phial or small glass tube, and agitated with about ^ oz. of hot water. After a short time allowed for repose, the clear liquid is poured off into a beaker-glass or other vessel in which the trial is to be made. This process is repeated with a second and a third quantity of water, or until nothing soluble remains, shown by the last washings not affecting the colour of tur- meric paper. The greatest care must here be taken not to waste the smallest portion of the liquid, which would render the results in- accurate. The Assay :— I. From the Capacity of Saturation:— The alkaline lye in the beaker-glass is very carefully neutralised by cautiously adding to it the test-acid, from an alkalimeter previously filled to exactly the zero (0) of its scale, if used VOLUMETRIC ALLY; or containing exactly 1000 gr., if the test-acid is employed by WEIGHT. When this is properly done, the solution, after being heated a few minutes, neither reddens litmus paper, nor tmm turmeric paper brown ; or what is the same, the litmus paper, only ‘ slightly ’ reddened by the cold solution, recovers its blue colour by exposure or warmth. As the point of neu- tralisation approaches, or indeed, as soon as the liquid acquires a distinct and persistent vinous or purple hue, or the effervescence p'ows languid, the test acid should be added in quantities of only two drops at a time.