! 1273 THRUSH—TIN. ! jslough, and the febrile symptoms of a typhoid jcharacter, which are present throughout, be- |coine more or’ less severe. In this way the jdisease often hastens to a fatal termination, and, being highly contagious, often extends litself to all, or nearly all, the members of a [family. The treatment must be similar to 'that adopted for typhus fever. Stimulating \gargles, containing capsicum, the mineral acids, or port wine, are useful local remedies. I THRUSH. Syn. Aphtha, L. A disease I of infancy, which, in its common form, is ■marked by small white ulcers upon the tongue, j palate, and gums. In some cases it extends ithrough the whole course of the alimentary i canal, and, assuming a malignant form, proves | Ifatal. The treatment consists of a gentle i [emetic of ipecacuanha wine, followed by an occasional dose of rhubarb and magnesia, to I keep the bowels clear, and to arrest diarrhoea. I The ulcerations may be touched with a little \honey of borax; and if they assume a dark ! colour, or there be much debility, astringents I and tonics should be had recourse to. In all leases the diet should be light, but support- |ing, as imperfect nutrition is a common cause I of the disease. - TIC DOULOUREUX'. [Fr.] According to a writer in one of the medical periodicals, a [Solution of atropia, 2 gr., in water, 1 fl. dr., to (which nitric acid, 1 drop (minim), has been 'previously added, applied as a paint, by means lof a camel-hair pencil, to the part of the face over the spot affected, immediately and completely subdues the pain, or, at all events, within 3 to 5 minutes, in all accidental cases, land affords considerable relief in others. The application is to be continued until some relief [is experienced. The solution, being very poisonous, must not be taken internally, nor (applied to the skin when broken. See Ateo- PIA and Nehealgia. ' TIN. Syn. Stannum (Ph. E. & D.), L. |This metal has been known from the most i [remote antiquity, being mentioned in the books of Moses (Numb, xxxi, 22), and by I Homer (‘Iliad,’ x, 25), and other early writers. (The ancients obtained it principally, if not solely, from Cornwall. The Phoenicians traded with England for this metal at least 1000 years before the birth of Christ. I Tin occurs in nature in the state of oxide, (and, more rarely, as sulphuret (tin pyeites). jin Cornwall it is found under the form of (peroxide (mine-tin, tin-stone), associated Uvith copper ore, in the slate and granite rocks, land as an alluvial deposit (steeam tin) in the j (beds of rivers. I Prep., ^ c. The ore is first reduced to | powder in stamping-mills, washed to remove earthy matter, and then roasted to expel ar- Isenic and sulphur; it is next deoxidized or Weduced by smelting it, with about l-6th of ) its w’eight of powdered culm, and a little slaked \lime; it is, lastly, refined by liquation/ io\- [lowed by a second smelting of the purer por- tion, which, after being treated, in a state of fusion, for some time with billets of green wood, or ‘ tossed,’ as the workmen call it, is allowed to settle, and is then cast into large blocks, which, after being assayed, receive the stamp of the duchy. Two varieties of commercial tin are known, called respectively geain tin and BAE TIN. The first is the best, and is prepared from the stream ore. Prop. Tin approaches silver in whiteness and lustre; in hardness it is intermediate between gold and lead; it is very malleable when pure, but the presence of a very small quantity of any other metal, particularly lead, deprives it of this property; when rubbed it evolves a peculiar odour, and when bent back- wards and forwards it emits a peculiar crack- ling noise; it melts at 442° Fahr.; volatilizes at a white heat; and when heated above its melt- ing-point, with free access of air, is speedily converted into a yellowish-white powder,which is the PEEOXiDE, or the ‘putty powdee’ of polishers. Sp. gr. 7‘29 to 7'31. Pur. “It is almost entirely dissolved by hydrochloric acid, yielding a colourless solu- tion ; the precipitate thrown down by potassa is white, and soluble in excess of the precipi- tant.” (Ph. L. 1836.) If it contain aesenic, brownish-black flocks will be separated during the solution, and arseniuretted hydrogen evolved, which may be inflamed and tested in the usual manner. (See pages 216-220.) The presence of other metals in tin may be de- tected by treating the hydrochloric solution with nitric acid, sp. gr. 1*16, first in the cold, and afterwards with heat, until all the tin is thrown down in the state of insoluble peroxide. The decanted acid solution from puee tin leaves no residuum on evaporation. If^ after all the acid has been dissipated by heat, dilu- tion with water occasion a heavy white pre- cipitate, the sample contained bismuth ; if, after dilution, a solution of sulphate of am- monia or of soda produce a similar white pre- cipitate (sulphate of lead), it contained lead ; if liquor of ammonia, added in excess, occasion reddish-brown flocks, or if red prussiate of potash give a blue precipitate, it contained lEON; and, if the clear supernatant liquid leave a residuum on evaporation, coppee. Tests. The salts of peotoxide op tin are characterised as follow:—1. Caustic potassa gives a bulky white precipitate, readily soluble in excess of the precipitant; on concentrating the solution, the precipitate is changed from hydrated protoxide to peroxide, which remains in solution, and metallic tin, which separates in brown flakes.—2. Ammonia, and the car- bonates of potassa, soda, and ammonia, give white precipitates, insoluble in excess.—3. Sul- phuretted hydrogen gives, in neutral and acid solutions, a dark brown precipitate, which is soluble in liquor of potassa, in the alkaline sul- phurets (especially when they contain an excess of sulphur), and in strong hot hydrochloric acid i and insoluble in nitric acid, even when