708 GOLD DETERGENT-GONIOMETEY. potassa; the solution so formed spontaneously decomposing into metallic gold and teroxide of gold. 2. Ter'oxide of Gold. Syn. Oxide op gold, Peeoxide op g., Aueic oxide, Aueic acid Ceocds op gold* ; Adei OXIDIJM, a. teeoxi- DUM, Solis ceocus*, L. Prep. 1. (P. Cod.) Calcined magnesia, 4 parts; terchloride of gold, 1 part; water, 40 parts; mix, boil, wash the precipitate first with water, next with dilute nitric acid, and lastly, again with water; it must be dried in the shade. 2. (Pesth.) Neutral chloride of gold (ter- chloride) containing 1 part of gold; water, 12 parts; carbonate of potassa, Ipart; (dis- solved in) water, 2 parts; digest together at 170° Fahr., well wash the precipitate with water, dissolve it in colourless nitric acid (sp. gr. 1‘400), and decompose the resulting solu- tion by admixture with water. The pre- cipitate is pure hydrated peroxide of gold. It may be rendered anhydrous by drying it at a heat of 212°. (Liebig.) Prop., Sfc. In the state of hydrate, teroxide of gold is a reddish-yellow powder, but is dark- brown when free from water. It is insoluble in water, and completely decomposed by solar light and a red heat. It dissolves freely in hydrochloric acid and liquid chlorine, and in hydrobromic acid, forming respectively ‘ ter- chloride’ and * terbromide’ of gold. It is in- soluble in hydrofluoric acid; and in the oxygen acids, with the exception of concentrated nitric acid, from which, however, it is again precipi- tated on the addition of water. It unites with the alkalies and earths, forming salts, which have been termed ‘ aueates,^ from the oxide playing the part of an acid in their composition. Uses, S^c. Teroxide of gold has been given in scrofula, &c., in doses of ^ to ^ gr., or 1 gr., in scrofula, syphilis, &c., made into a pill with extract of mezereon. See Pueele op Cassius, and above. Pow'dered Gold. Syn. Ditided gold. Gild- ing POWDEE, Gold beonze. Gold coloue; Auei pulvis, Aueum pulyeeatum, a. divi- SUM, L. Prep. 1. Gold, 1 part; mercury, 7 parts; form an amalgam, and expose it to heat until all the mercury is volatilized; or, the mercury may be dissolved out with hot nitric acid. In either case, the residuum is to be powdered, washed, and dried. If the quantity operated on is considerable, the pro- cess should he so conducted as to save the mercury. 2. (P. Cod.) Gold leaf is triturated with 10 or 12 times its weight of sulphate of po- tassa (in crystals) until shining laminae are no longer visible; the mixture is then passed through a fine sieve, and the sulphate of po- tassa washed out with boiling water. 3. From gold leaf and honey ground toge- ther, as the last, by means of a stone and muller. This is the plan commonly adopted in the small way by artists. 4. From a solution 6f gold in aqua regia, ; precipitated hy protosulphate, of iron, the re- i suiting powder being washed, dried, and gently heated. This gives pure gold. Uses, ^c. Powdered gold is employed in gilding by japanners and by artists. It is either sold in powder (gold in powdee), or made up into shells (gold shells, which see). Its use in medicine has been already noticed. Stand'ard Gold. The standard gold of this country is an alloy of pure gold, 11 parts, with pure copper, 1 part. Formerly the alloy con- sisted partly of silver, as found in some of the older coins now in circulation. It is often spoken of as 22 carats fine. See Allot, Assaying, Caeat, Steeling. Sul'phuret of Gold. Syn. Sulphide oe gold, Teesulphueet op g. ; Auei sulphueetum, L. Prep. Transmit a current of sulphuretted hydrogen gas through a solution of terchloride of gold in water ; or add hydrosulphuret of am- monia to the same solution ; collect the preci- pitate, wash it with cold distilled water, and dry it in the shade. GOLD DETER'GENT. Prep. (Upton.) Take I quicklime, 1 oz.) sprinkle it with a little hot water to slake it, then gradually add boiling j water, 1 pint, so as to form a milk. Next 1 dissolve pearlash, 2 oz. in boiling water, 1|- pint; mix the two solutions, cover up the j vessel, agitate occasionally for an hour, allow it to settle, decant the clear, put it into flat half-pint bottles, and well cork them down. Use. To clean gliding, &c., either alone or diluted with water. It is applied with a soft sponge, and then washed off with clean water. It is essentially a weak solution of potassa, : and may be extemporaneously prepared by ; diluting liquor of potassa (Ph. L.) with about 5 times its volume of water. GOLD SHELLS. Gold leaf or powdered gold ground up with gum-water, and spread upon the insides of shells. Used by artists. GOLD SIZE. Syn. Gilding size, Gildee’s s.. Gold coloue. Prep. 1. (Oil size.) Drying or boiled oil thickened with yellow ochre or calcined red ochre, and carefully re- duced to the utmost smoothness by grinding. It is thinned with oil of turpentine. Im- I proves by age. Used for oil gilding. 2. (Watee size.) Parchment or isinglass size, mixed with finely ground yellow ochre. i Used in burnished or distemper gilding. GOLD-BEAT'ER’S SKIN is prepared from 1 the peritoneal membrane of the ccecurn of the I ox. It is used to separate the leaves of gold I whilst under the hammer, as a nearly invisible I defensive dressing for cuts, as a fabric for ^ court plaster, &c. GONG METAL. See Bell Metal. GONIOM'ETRY. The art of measuring the ^ angles of crystals, by means of a goniometee ; a most important matter in chemistry and mineralogy. The only accurate and simple instrument of this kind is the eeplectinG i