BOLLS—ROUGE. liich a hole is pierced, and the ‘ head’ or Iaenituee’ filled with stars, and a little rnpowder is then applied. See Eiees and, i’AES. BOLLS. A variety of fancy bread, gene- jlly in the form of small semicylindrical Ices, prepared by the bakers, and intended !be eaten hot for breakfast. They differ from \1inary fine or French bread, as it is called, iefly in containing more water. Some are jtted up with milk-and-water, and are hence [lied ‘milk rolls’ BOLL (Wine). Prep. Soak a French roll or onge-bisciiit in raisin, marsala, or sherry ne, surround it by a custard or cream thick- \id with eggs, and add some spice and orna- mts. BOOT. Syn. Radix, L. That part of a 'int which imbibes its nourishment from the 1 or medium in which it grows. In popular jiguage, BULBS, COEMS, TUBEES, &c., are jduded under this term. BO'TINESS. See Malt Liquoes and jlNES. IBOPOPH'AGON. Prep. From yellow soap, ced, 1 oz.; soft soap (finest), 3 oz.; melt lem by the heat of hot water, then allow jem to cool a little, and stir in of oil of \^ves, ^ dr.; essence of ambergris, 10 drops, j is kept a month before sale. Used for living. ;B0S£. Syn. Rosa, L. The typical genus j the natural order Rosacece. It includes imerous species greatly prized as garden mts. 'Cabnbage Rose. Syn. Hundeed-leaved I'SE; Rosa centieolia (Ph. L. & E.), L. The fresh petals” (Ph. L.) of this species |3 used in medicine. Odorous and slightly [bringent and laxative. See Watees and TEUP. Dog Rose. The Rosa canina, or wild briar, ie Hips. French Rose. Syn. Red eose ; Rosa Gal- CA (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “ The fresh and ied unexpanded petals” (Ph. L.) of this lecies are also officinal. The white claws I the petals are removed before drying [era. I Uses, <^c. The red rose is an elegant astrin- Imt and tonic, and, as such, is used as the jsis of several pharmaceutical preparations, be Confection, Honeys, Infusion, and i'EUP. BOSE'MARY. Syn. Rosmaeinus (Ph. L. & B.). The fiowering tops of Rosmarinus \icinalis (Linn.), or the common rosemary of |ir gardens, are officinal in the Ph. E. & D.; i is also the oil (oleum eosmaeini) in the K L. The odour of both is refreshing, and | ey are reputed carminative, emmenagogue, |id neurotic. The dried leaves are occasion- ly used by the hysterical and hypochon- ■iacal as a substitute for China tea. The oil an ingredient in Hungary water, and is jUch used in various cosmetic compounds, 1175 under the presumption of its encouraging the growth of hair and improving its quality, ROSE'OLA. See Rashes. ROSE PINK. See Red Pigments. RO'SIN. See Resin. ROSY-DROP. See Acne. ROT. Syn. Geeat eot, Hydeophio e.. Sheep e.. Wet e. A disease peculiar to sheep, produced by a humid atmosphere, wet pasturage, and exposure to the weather. The leading symptoms are loss of fiesh and vivacity; the lips and tongue look livid, and the eyes sad and glassy; the pelt comes off" on the slightest pull; the breath is fetid, and the urine high-coloured and scanty; and there is either black purging or obstinate costiveness. The treatment consists in a change to a dry warm situation, and a dry diet, consisting of oats, barley meal, tail-wheat, &c., to which some turnips, carrots, or mangel wurzel, may be added, with a liberal supply of common salt, and a few grains of sulphur, daily. These last two substances form the active in- gredients in Flesh’s * Patent Restoeative.* ROT (in Timber). See Dey Rot. ROTATION (of Crops). The rotation or succession of crops is absolutely necessary for the successful and economical cultivation of the soil. Crops have been divided by agri- culturists into exhausting crops, restoring crops, and cleaning crops. The most exhausting CEOPS are usually considered to be those of corn, but all those that are allowed to ripen their seed, and which are carried off* the ground are also exhausting, but in different degrees. Even clover, tares, and grass cut green, are considered as exhausting, but in a less degree than those that are allowed to ripen. Re- STOEING CEOPS are such as are allowed to decay upon the ground, or are consumed upon it by domestic animals. Cleaning ceops are such as are grown in drills, and undergo the usual operations of weeding, hoeing, &c.; the majority of these may also be regarded as ex- hausting crops. An exhausting crop should always be followed by a restoring or a cleaning crop; or, where possible, by both combined. Crops should also succeed each other in such a way that the soil may not be exhausted of any one particular kind of nutriment. This is best effected by so rotating the crops that plants which are nearly allied should not suc- ceed each other on the same soil, or, at all events, not more than once. See Ageicul- TUEE, Soils, &c. ROTTEN STONE. See Teipoli. ROUGE. Syn. Toilet eouge ; Rouge VEGETAL, Rouge d’Espagne, Fr. Prep. Wash saffiower (any quantity) until the water comes off colourless; dry and pulverize it, and digest the powder in a weak solution of crystallized carbonate of soda ; then place some fine cotton-wool at the bottom of a porcelain or glass vessel, pour the filtered tinctorial so- lution on this, and throw down the colouring matter, by gradually adding lemon juice op 1