HUNGER—HYDEIODIC ACID. air and moisture, it sufters eremacausis or decay, and crumbles down into a dark-brown or black powder, commonly called ‘ mould’ and to which chemists have given the name of ‘ humus’ In this state it exists in fertile soils, in which it is derived from the decay of plants. A powder of similar composition is produced by the action of powerful chemical reagents on sugar, lignin, &c. When acted upon by dilute hoiling solution of caustic po- tassa, this substance yields a deep-brown so- lution, from which acids precipitate a floc- culent brown substance generally called ‘ UL- Mic ’ or ‘ Humc ACID.’ Both bodies require further investigation, as they are supposed' to vary exceedingly in composition. HUN"GER. The peculiar sensation arising from the want of food. When severe, it increases to actual pain, the coats of the stomach are acted on by its own juices, the respiration becomes less frequent, the circu- lation languid, and there is a general diminu- tion of the heat of the body and of the secre- tions. The return of hunger is accelerated by exercise and labour, and by the exposure of the body to a low temperature. Long fasting is injurious, more particularly to the young and the debilitated. See Appetite, Nutrition, &c. HUS'BANDEY. The business of the farmer ; by some the term is restricted to the joint operations of farming and gardening on the small scale. It is also sometimes used synony- mously with ‘ agriculture.’ HY'ACINTH. In botany, the English name for the genus Hyacinthus. There are numer- ous varieties of the ‘garden hyacinth,’ all very beautiful. The bulbs are largely im- ported from Holland, and are often grown in water contained in suitable glass vessels (hy- acinth glasses). In mineralogy,t\iQ term is applied to crystallized yellow or brown zircon. See Gems. HYDRAC'IDS. Syn. Hydrogen acids. Binary a. Acids which contain hydrogen as one of their essential elements were formerly so called, to distinguish them from those con- taining oxygen. According to the views of Gerhardt and his followers, all true acids con- tain hydrogen. HY'DRAGOGUES. Syn. Hydragoga, L. Medicines wdiich cause the removal of w'ater from any of the cavities of the body. Many cathartics, as gamboge, jalap, &c., are classed under this heaL HYDRAS'TIN. The name given to a con- centrated remedy much employed by the medical ‘ eclectics ’ of America. Prep. Treat the powdered root of golden- seal {Hydrastis Canadensis) with cold water by percolation; acidulate the infusion with hydro- chloric acid; collect the precipitate on a filter; then dry it, dissolve the dried mass in alcohol, filter, and set aside to crystallize. Prop. Yellow, acicular crystals, insoluble in cold alcohol, ether, and water. Pose. 3 to 5 gr., 3 to 6 times a day; as a tonic in dyspep- sia, inflammation of the stomach, &c. Obs. According to the most recent investigations, hydrastin contains berberine, and another alkaloid, called hydrastia or hydrastina. HY'DRATE. In chemistry, a compound con- taining water in a state of chemical combi- nation and in definite proportion. Thus, slaked lime is a hydrate of lime; caustic po- tassa, a hydrate of potassa ; and oil of vitriol, a hydrate of sulphuric acid.^ The term ‘ hy- drated’ is used as an adjective, in the same sense as ‘ hydrate ’is as a substantive. The latter is, however, for the sake of euphony, usually applied to simple names, as hydrate of lime, hydrate of potassa, &c.; and the former to compound names, as hydrated acetic acid, hydrated oxide of iron, &c. Many instances of the use of these terms will be found in this work. HY'DRIDE. Syn. Hydruret; Hydridum, Hydruretum, L. a compound of hydrogen wdth a metal. HYDRI'ODATE. A salt of hydriodic acid. See Iodide and below. HYDRIO'DIC ACID. Syn. Iodhydric acid ; Acidum hydriodicum, L. An acid com- pound of iodine and hydrogen. Prep. 1. (Gaseous.)—a. Into ^ glass tube, closed at one end, introduce a little iodine, then a small quantity of roughly powdered glass moistened with water, next a few small fragments of phosphorus, and upon this some more glass; this order (iodine, glass, phos- phorus, glass) is to be repeated until the tube is one half or two thirds filled; a cork and narrow tube are then to be fitted in, a gentle heat applied, and the gas collected by ‘ down- ward displacement,’ ^ or over mercury, or passed into water, when ‘ liquid hydriodic ACID ’ will be obtained. Obs. The gas can be retained for a short time only over mercury, owing to its action on that metal. b. Pour a little ivater over some periodide of phosphorus, previously put into a small glass retort, ap^dy a gentle heat, and collect the gas, as before. c. Heat together in a retort water, iodide of potassium, iodine, and phosphorus, and col- lect the gas as before. d. (Dr. Glover.) Place pure iodide of barium in a retort, and decompose it with sulphuric acid. All the above are chemically pure. 2. (Liquid ; Solution oe hydriodic a.)— a. The gas prepared as above is passed into cold distilled water. b. Iodine, in fine powder, is suspended in water, and a stream of washed sulphuretted hydrogen passed through the mixture as loug 1 According to the unitary system, the relation between oxides and hydrates is thus expressed in formulae:— Water .... IT,0 Hydrate of potassium . KHO Oxide of potassium . KjO (See EquiYALENTS.) * See Ciii.OKiNE, page 433,