208 AKEOMETKY—ARNICA. AREOM'ETRY. St/n. Aeeome'teia, L. ; Aeeometeie, Fr. The art or oi)eration of ascertaining the specific gravitxj of liquids, and hence also their strength or coininercial value j hydroinetry. See Aeeometee (above), Hydeometey, Specieic Geayity, &c. ARE (ar; are—Eng.). [Fr.] See Measures. ARGENT'AL. .S'yn. Aegent'ic; Aegen'teus Aegenta'tus, L.j Aegente, Fr. Silvery; made of, reseinhling, or containing silver. In metallurgy, applied to ores and amalgams of silver. AR'GENTAN^. German silver. ARGEN'TATE*. A compound in which silver was supposed to play the part of an acid (aegent'ic acid); as aegen'tate oe am- monia or fulminating silver, which is now almost the only compound to which the word is applied. ARGENTINE (-in). Syn. Aegenti'nus, L.j Aegentin, Fr.; Silbeeeaeben, &c., Ger. Silver-like; pertaining to, resembling, or sounding like silver ; argental. Ar'gentine (-tin). [Eng., Fr.] German yilver^. In mineralogy, nacreous carbonate of lime, from its whiteness and silvery lustre. ARGENT'OTYPE (-tlpe). See Photo- GEAPHY. ARGENT'UM. [L.] Silver. In old che- mistry and pharmacy, aegente'M eetgiti"- A^UMf, A. MO'BiLEf (-il-e), was quicksilver; A. MOE'TTJUMf, dead silver, grain-s.; A. musi'- A’UMf, mosaic s., silver-bronze; a. NiTEA'iiiMf, lunar caustic; a. A'l'vUMf, quicksilver; a. zooTiN'iCUMf, cyanide of silver ; &c. AR'GILf (-jil)- Syn. Aegil'la, L. ; Aegile, Fr. Clay or potter’s earth. In chemistry, jiure clay, alumina. ARGliiLA'CEOUS (-jil-). Syn. Aegilla' CEUSjL. ; Aegilleux, Fr.; Thonig, Thonae- TiG, Ger. Clayey; pertaining to, containing, or of the nature of clay or argil. In agricid- lure, an epithet of soils (aegillaceoe^s soils) of which clay is the principal or characteristic ingredient. Argil'lo-arena'ceous (-jil-). In agr., con- sisting chiefly of clay and sand. Argillo-calca"reous. In agr., consisting chiefly of clay and chalk. AR'GOL. Syn. Aegal* ; Tae'tael^s ceu'- Dus, L.; Taetee beut, Fr.; Weinstein, Ger. Crude bitartrate of potasb as deposited by wine. That from red wine is eed aegol ; that from ivhite wine, aviiite aegol. See Taetae. ARICINE (a-re'-sin; ar'-e-J). Syn. Ctrs'- CONINE (-nin) ; Aei"cina (-rese'-m-a), or AeICI'NA (-si'-), CUSCONI'NA, Cusco-C'lNCHO'- NIA, L. An alkaloid discovered by Pelletier and Coriol in Ulrica or cusco bark. It is ob- tained by a similar process to that adopted for cinchonine and quinine from the cinchonas; the resulting crystals being purified by re- solution and re-crystallisation from hot alcohol. Prop., Sfc. Crystallisable ; soluble in ether; non-volatile; nitric acid turns it green; its basic sulphate or disulphate is non-crystal- Usable and gelatinous, but its acid sulphate j crystallises in flattened needles. In other j respects it resembles cinchonine. Guibourt i / doubts its existence as a distinct principle.' j I By others it is presumed to be the tcrojcide : j of the base of which cinchenia is said to be ' the monoxide, and quina the binoxide. It is identical with the ctnchovine or cinchoa'a- TiNE of Manzini.'* It is probably cinchonine modified by the presence of a little resin, whicli also causes its being turned green by nitric acid. See Cinchonine, Cusconine, &c. ARITH'METERJ. See Abacus. ARITH'METIC. The consideration of this subject, as a Avhole, does not come within the province of this Avork ; but some of its appli- i cations in commerce and the arts are noticed under Alligation, Alloys, Calculations, Decimals, Equia'alents, Mixtuees, Spe- cific Geaa’ity, &c. ARM'ATURE (-a-tiire). Syn. Aematu"ea, I L. In magnetics, a piece of soft iron used I to connect the poles of a horse-shoe magnet, j for the purpose of preventing loss of power. AR'NICA. [L., Fr., Eng.] Syn. AENiQUE.jFr.; . Aenika, Wola^eelei, Ger. In botany, a genus \ of plants, of the Nat. ord., Compositae (DC.). i In the Ph. U.S., arnica montana (see below). \ Arnica Monta'na. [L.; Linn.] Syn. Aenica, •' Moun'tain a., M. tobac'co, Geeman leop'- ( aed’s bane ; Panace'a lapso"eum*, L. Ae- S NIQUE, A. DES MONTAGNES, TaBAC DES SaA'OY- J AEDS et DES Vosges, Fr.; Aenika, Falkeaut, > <1 &c., Ger. Hab. Meadows of the cooler parts jili of Europe, North America, and Siberia. It is now cultivated in our gardens. Flowers \ (aenica, Ph. U.S., Castr. Ruth., and Bor.) and leaves, diaphoretic, diuretic, stimulant, and narcotic; in large doses, emetic and i)ur- gative; root, discussive; whole herb, diai)lio- retic, stimulant, and nervine. Prop., Sfc. Arnica acts as an energetic stimulant on the cerebro-spinal system, and as an irritant on the stomach and bowels. It is much employed on the continent, and is given in a great variety of diseases —amaurosis, chlorosis, convulsions, diarrhoea, dysentery, gout, paralysis, rheumatism, Ac. It is much used in Germany, instead of barlq in intermittents, putrid fevers, and gangrene. In France it is commonly employed as an excito-tonic in paralysis. It has been greatly I extolled as a restorative, and in bruises and injuries from falls. The Savoyards and inliabi- j tants of the Vosges both ‘smoke’ and ‘snuff’ I the leaves. In England it is little used exce'pt: j by homoeopaths. It is said that no animrd I but the goat will eat this plant. (Thomson.) | ! Its noxious properties chiefly depend on thei presence of cytisine.—Dose. Flowers, 5 to 10 gr., in powder, Avith syrup or honey; root, lo| to 20 gr. It is most conveniently adminis-. tered under the form of infusion or tincture. 1 '‘Hist. Nut. des BrognesP 1850, iii, ICO. ® Winckler, “ Bxtchieds Repert.,” 184.S.