130 AM IDET—AMMONIA. whicli it occurs, are iiuule up hy prefixing the name, or part of thename,oftlieo'tlierbody; as in sodamide, hydramide, Sj'c.; or by placing the word amidide before the name of the other body, with ‘ of ^ between them; as in amidide of sodium, amidide of hydroyen, Syc. The so- called ‘ amides’ combine with a great number of saline bodies, which then, according to the nomenclature of Kane, receive the prefix amido-; as in amido-chloride of mercury, coin- 7nonly called ammonio-chloride of mercury, and popularly, v/hite precipitate, See Ami- IDOGEN", AmM01>:IA, NoaiEXCLATUEE, Ac. AMIDST, Ain'idide. See AariDE. AMTDIKE (-e-din). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Am'y- DijrE j Amidi'a'A, L. a substance noticed by Saussure in starch-paste, when long kept. Ac- cording to Caventou, it is formed at once by the action of boiling water on starch. It forms the interior substance of the starch-grains, and its properties are intermediate between tliose of starch and gum. It is, indeed, the soluble part of starch, of wliich a perfect so- lution can only be obtained by px-olonged ebul- lition in a large quantity of water. AMID'OGEM. Syn. Ammid'ogeis'(Webster; Goodrich). Liter ally, t\\e ‘generator of amides’; \\\ chemistry, the name given by Kane to an hypothetical body in the ammonia compounds, composed of two equiv. of hydrogen and one equiv. of nitrogen (=NH2). It forms amides or amidides by combining with other bodies. See Amide, Amine, Ammonia, &c. Amidogen Ba'ses. In chemistry, ‘ amines’ in which only one equiv. of hydrogen is re- placed by an organic radical; and hence, re- cently called PRIMARY mon'amines. See AjMine (below). AMTNE (-in). In chemistry, an organic base formed on the type of the ammonium- salts, by replacing one or more atoms of hy- drogen by an organic radical. When the whole four equiv. of hydrogen are replaced by a compound radical, the new compound ac- quires the remarkable properties of not being decomposed by potassa, and of yielding, by appropriate treatment, a series of substances of a powerfully alkaline character, and very great stability. Amylamine, hielhylamine, trime- thylamine,kc., are examples of these bodies. The whole subject belongs, however, to pure chemis- try. See Amidogen, Biami nes, Mon amines, &c. AM'MELIDE (-lid). A xvhite insoluble iiowder, discovered by Liebig, nmX gn'ejjared by dissolving ammeline, melam, or melamine, in strong sulphuric acid, adding alcohol, and washing the resulting precipitate with cold water. It is purified by re-solution in dilute nitric acid, and precipitation with carbonate of ammonia. AM'MELIHE (-lin). A weak alkaline i>ase discovered by Liebig. It is prepared by dis- solving melam in boiling dilute hydrochloric acid, and concentrating the liquid by evapo- ration. The crystals thus obtained are dis- solved in pure wafer, and preci])itated with ammonia. The precipitate consists of very fine needles, having a silky lustre, and is inso- luble in both water and alcohol. It may also be obtained from the alkaline mother-liquor from which melamine has separated, by neu- tralising it with acetic acid. 8ee Ammelide, Melam, &e. AM'MOLmE (-lin). See Animal Oil (Rec- tified). AMMO^NIA (-mone'-y’a). Syn. Gas'eoi'S AMMONIA, AmMONI'ACAL GAS*, Vol'ATILE aL'- KALlf, Al'KALINE AIRf; TeRHY'DRIDE (-drul) oeni'trogen, Hy'deamide, AmTdide oehy'- DROGEN, AzO'TURETTED HYDROGENf, Chem.; Ammo"nia, Gas ammoniaca'le, L.; Am- MONIAQDE, AlCALI VOLATILE, Fr.; AlMMO- NiAK, Ger. A gaseous substance forming the pungent principle of smelling salts and the ammonia-compounds. Hist., Syc. Whether ammonia or its aqueous solution was known to antiquity is a matter still undetermined. Its odour appears to be that referred to by Pliny as resulting from the mixture of lime with nitrum. {‘‘ Hist. Nat.,” xxxi. c. 46.) There are strong reasons for supposing that crude carbonate of ammonia, and its solutions, were known to the ancient Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans. As an article of commerce, it was originally brought into Europe, from Egypt, under the form of sal ammoniac. This salt was obtained as a .sublimate from the soot produced by burning the camel’s dung- collected near the temple of Jupiter Ammon, in Ammonia, a district on the confines of the Lybian desert, which derived its name from the sandy nature of its soil.^ This prepara- tion of ammonia was early known to the Hindoos ; indeed, “ ever since they have burnt bricks, as they now do, with the manure of animals; as some may usually be found crys- tallised at the unburnt extremity of the kiln.” (Royle.) The manufacture of the carbonate or sesquicarbonate of ammonia was also knovm to the Hindoos at a very early period. A Tamool formula for the preparation of this substance from sal ammoniac and chalk sub- limed together, not vastly different from that given in the pharmacopoeias, has been pub- lished by Ainslie, in his Materia Indica. The mode of preparing carbonate of ammonia, with many other chemical processes, was pro- bably carried from India to Arabia, by travel- lers from the latter country who visited the East. Geber, the xVrabian physician, who flourished in the 8th century, refer.s to crude carbonate of ammonia under the term ^ sal uri’noe.’ Raymond Lully in the 13th, and Basil Valentine in the 14th century, likewise mention this salt and its solutions. For a long- period it was procured from putrid urine by distillation, and from various animal sub- stances, by exposing them to a strong heat in close vessels. Its earliest liquid form a]>- proaching those at present used, was probably that of spirit of hartshorn. I)r. Black first From ajufto;, ftnnil, Gr.