FIRE. 644 F.) Isinglass (finely shredded), 1 lb., and sour beer or cider or vinegar, 3 or 4 pints, are macerated together, and more of the sour liquor added as the isinglass swells, until about a gallon has been used, agitation with a whisk or a small bundle of twigs being occa- sionally had recourse to, for the purpose of promoting the solution. As soon as the whole of the isinglass is dissolved, the mixture is reduced to the consistence of thin syrup, with weak mild beer, or cider, or any either liquid that the finings are intended for. The whole is next strained through a tammy cloth or a hair sieve, and at once reduced to a proper state of dilution, by the addition of more liquor. Product. 6^ to 7 gall. “ A pound of good isinglass will make about 12 gall, of finings.” (Ure.) Used to clarify fermented liquors, especially beer. 1 to 1^ pint is the usual dose for a barrel of ale or porter ; and a quart for a hogshead of cider or winel 2. (Spieit finings.)—a. Alum (ord. cryst.), \lb. ; powder, and divide it into 12 equal por- tions, which are to be separately wrapped in blue paper, and marked No. 1. Next take of carbonate of soda (sesquicarbonate of the shops), 6 oz. ; divide this as the last, wrap it in white paper, and mark each parcel No. 2. Keeps dry anywhere. b. From alum, 1 lb. ; salt of tartar (dry), i lb. / proceed as before. The white papers containing the salt of tartar must be kept in a dry, well-corked, wdde-mouthed bottle or jar. Both of the last two are used to clarify gin and COEDIALS. The contents of one of the blue papers are dissolved in about a pint of hot water, and the resulting solution is well ‘ rummaged up’ with the liquor. A solution of the contents of one of the white papers, in about ^ pint of hot water, is then added, and the agitation continued for some minutes longer; after which the cask is ‘ bunged’ close, and the whole allowed to repose until the next day. This is sufficient for a barrel (say 30 to 36 gall.), but many persons use double the quantity. The effect is not only to clarify, but also to ‘ blanch ’ the liquor. Obs. Good liquors, either fermented or spirituous, need no artificial ‘fining,’ as they always clarify themselves by repose. With those, however, which are ‘ out of condition,’ or of inferior quality, it is often necessary, as, without such a proceeding, they remain unsale- able. This is particularly the case with malt liquor. “ Attempts to clarify it in the cask seldom fail to do harm. The only thing that can be used with advantage for fining foul or muddy beer, is isinglass.” (Ure.) The disad- vantages resulting from the artificial clarifi- cation of fermented liquors are—that they do not afterwards ‘ stand well on draught,’ that much of the conservative astringent matter * which they contain is precipitated with the ‘finings,’ that their piquancy and flavour is more or less diminished, and that they are 1 See ■page 363. more than usually liable to become flat and vapid, whether in cask or bottle. The larger the proportion of ‘finings’ used, the more marked are their injurious effects, and the ' shorter the interval which elapses before the accession of the several symptoms referred to. We have seen the most disastrous consequences follow' the injudicious use of ‘finings,’ more especially in respect to those liquors in which a certain amount of piquancy, astringency, and briskness, is an essential condition. In one instance which came under our notice upwards of 30 barrels of ‘underground’ (a very strong old ale) was thus reduced in value to less than l-3rd its original cost; and in another, a large bottled stock of the ‘ finest old Burton’ was found to be utterly unsale- able. In both cases the ‘ spoiled liquor’ was got rid of by mixing it in and selling it with ^d. and 4(?. beer. Liquors wdiich ‘refuse to fine’ or become clear, when treated with ‘ finings’ in the usual manner, are called ‘ stubborn’ by coopers and cellarmen. See Beewing, Gin, Malt Li- QUOES, Wines, &c. FIRE. The calamities resulting from this destructive agent are of such frequent occur- rence, as to justly claim a notice of the subject here. The causes of fires are numerous, and of a varied character, and, in most instances, difficult to determine, because it is the interest of those concerned to suppress all evidence connected with the matter. Accident, that convenient word given to the imaginary hack to which so many fires are referred, if truth- fully interpreted, wdll, in general, be found to be equivalent to carelessness, recklessness, or guilt. We believe that there are few fires which have happened that might not have been prevented by the exercise of common prudence, and that a vast number have been - caused by direct negligence, arising from sheer - laziness and indifference, to use no harsher terms. As familiar instances, may be men- tioned—allowing sparks to fall on the ground and remain there, without extinguishing them; carrying a naked candle into rooms containing inflammable substances ; smoking carelessly in dangerous places, as workshops, warehouses, on shipboard, &c.; keeping instantaneous light matches in improper places, and neglecting to pick those up that may happen to fall on the ground, &c. &c. The list might easily he extended, but we believe every reflecting reader can do so for himself. The great increase in the number of fires since the introduction of lucifer matches, and the almost general use of tobacco, cannot fail to have attracted the at- tention of every one. The danger of matches falling about might be avoided by the use of those which can only be ignited by rubbing them on the prepared surface of the box. These ‘ safety matches’ are coming into general use, and must eventually supersede all the more dangerous kinds.^ 1 See Matches (Patent Safety).