juently called the * swine-pox.’ When the lesicles are large and globular, and their con- Ijnts, at first whey-coloured, afterwards turn jellow, it is popularly known as ‘ hiyes/ The treatment of chicken-pox consists in [le adoption of a light, vegetable diet, and in }ae administration of mild saline aperients nd cooling drinks. i The chicken-pox, except in children of a ery bad habit of body, is an extremely mild lisease. Like the smallpox, it rarely attacks tie same person more than once during life. I Cow-pox. Syn. Vaccinia, Vaeiola vac- ![NA, L. This disease was proposed as a ibstitute and a preventive of smallpox, by r. Jenner, in 1798, and its artificial produc- !on (vaccination) has rendered smallpox a mparatively rare disease in Britain. There opears no reason to doubt that the preten- ions of the advocates of vaccination have been jlly justified by the experience of more than lilf a century; or, that this disease, when litively developed, evinced by the complete- !ss and maturation of the pustules, acts as a •ophylactic of smallpox. The process of vaccination is similar to lat of INOCULATION for smallpox. The point f a lancet is wetted with the matter taken lorn one of the pustules, and is then gently serted under the cuticle, and the scratch jfcerwards rubbed over with the same. Hse- lorrhage should be avoided, as the blood is i't to wash away the virus, or to form a cake jaich shields the living tissue from its action. The leading symptoms of cow-pox are as Hows:—About the third day the puncture |ually becomes red and elevated, and con- lues to enlarge and become vesicular, until, about the eighth or ninth day, it is at its ight, and the vesicle is surrounded with a i rid areola. About the eleventh or twelfth the symptoms decline; the centre of the istule becomes brown, and a dark scale gra- lally forms and separates, leaving the arm as retofore. I This disease seldom requires medical treat- ; but should febrile symptoms come on, 1 mild aperient may be given. In all cases jeat care should be taken to avoid the rup- (re of the pustule before its maturity, or \ til between the seventh and ninth day. In some cases, owing to peculiar conditions the system, vaccination fails to produce e efiect intended. When this happens, the ild should be revaccinated after the lapse of few weeks; or earlier, if altered circum- mces appear to justify it. When the patient 8 taken the disease, but the pustules have t been fully and satisfactorily developed in 2 usual manner, it is also wise to repeat the ccination in a twelvemonth. “ If, when the ‘ vaccine virus’ has been in- ■ted, and a genuine vesicle has risen, the us be again inserted on the fourth, fifth, or ' ^ay, the vesicle arising from this second lertion will be hurried in its progress, soj that, on the ninth day, it will be surrounded by an areola, and appear as mature as the first. This aflbrds conclusive evidence of the consti- tution being fully under the influence of the disease.” This is known as * Beyce’s test,’ from having been proposed by Mr. Bryce, of Edinburgh, in 1802. Prudence suggests vac- cination in early infancy. See Smallpox {below), and Vaccine Mattee. SmaU-pox. Syn. Vaeiola, L. This dis- ease comes on with the usual symptoms of in- flammatory fever. About the third day, red spots, resembling flea-bites, make their ap- pearance on the face and head, and gradually extend over the whole body. About the fifth day, small circular vesicles, depressed in the centre, surrounded by an areola, and contain- ing a colourless fluid, begin to form, when the feverish symptoms abate; about the sixth day, the throat becomes sore ; about the eighth day, the face is swollen ; and about the eleventh day, the pustules acquire the size of a pea, and cease to enlarge, the matter which they con- tain becomes opaque and yellow, a dark central spot forms on each, the swelling of the face subsides, and secondary symptoms of fever come on; the pustules become rough, break, and scab over, and a dark spot remains for some days, often followed by permanent inden- tations, popularly known as ‘pock-marks.’ At the end of the sixteenth or eighteenth day, the symptoms usually disappear. In the con- fluent SMALLPOX, a severer form of the dis- ease, the pustules coalesce, the eruption is irre- gular in its progress, and the inflammatory symptoms are more severe. The treatment of ordinary cases of smallpox resembles, for the most part, that mentioned above for chicken-pox. As soon as the fe- brile symptoms become marked, the patient should not be suffered to lie in a hot bed, but on a mattress, in a cool and well-ventilated apartment, and antiseptic cooling drinks should be freely administered. When convulsions occur, or great irritability exists, small doses of morphine, opium, or camphor, may be ad- ministered, and obstinate vomiting arrested by effervescing saline draughts. When the skin is pale and cold, the pulse weak, and the erup- tion languidly developed, the warm or tepid bath is often serviceable. An infusion of the root of Sarracenia purpurea, an American plant, has been strongly recommended as a preven- tive and cure of smallpox, but many of our most eminent physicians regard it as valueless. The application on the third day of a mask formed of thick muslin, covered with mercurial ointment, and having holes cut in it for the nostrils, eyes, and mouth, will effectually pre- vent ‘pitting.’ (Dr. Stewardson.) With the same intention, some persons recommend the puncture of the pustules as soon as they are mature. A solution of India rubber in chloro- form is now often painted over the face when the eruption has become fully developed. The chloroform quickly evaporates, leaving an elastic