308 BENZOYLE. tific knowledge of its compounds, which in- deed preceded that of henzoyle itself, we are chiefly indebted to Liehig, Wohler, and Laurent. Prep. From benzoate of copper, by dry distillation, very cautiously conducted. The oily distillate crystallises on cooling; the crystals are benzotle, whilst the ‘ residuum ^ in the retort consists of salicylic acid and hen- zoic acid, with some copper. Prop. It has the odour of geranium, melts at about 158° Fahr., and when heated with hydrate of potassa is instantly converted into ‘benzoic acid,^ with disengagement of hy- drogen. Ohs. Benzoyle, in a scientiflc point of view, possesses a high degree of interest from its having been the flrst-known compound body capable of entering into direct combination with hydrogen, chlorine, oxygen, &c., in the same manner as a metal. The leading com- pounds in which it is assumed to play the part of a ‘ radical ^ or ‘ basyle ’ are noticed below :— Table of the Benzoyl-compounds. Benzoyle .... €1411502 = Bz. Hydride of benzoyle {bitter-almond oil) Bz,H. Oxide of „ {anhydrous benzoic acid) Bz, 0. Hydrated oxide of henzoyle {benzoic acid, cryst. or ordinary) . . BzO, HO. Bromide of henzoyle Chloride of „ Cyanide of Iodide of Sulph\iret of Bz, Br. Bz, Cl. Bz, Cy. Bz, I. Bz, S. Benzoic alcohol {benzoyl-alcohol) C14H7O, HO. &c. &c. The benzoyl-series, according to some autho- rities, also includes hippuric acid, amygdalinic acid, and amygdaline; and generally, all the substances whose names contain the prefix benz- (the first part of the word benzoyle), as indica- tive of their constitution. See Acids (Anhy- drous) and Acids (Organic). Ben'zoate of Benzoyle. Anhydrous benzoic acid. Bro'mide of Benzoyle. A compound pre- pared from bromine and hydride of benzoyle, by a similar process to that adopted for the ‘ chloride’; or better, from bromide of potas- sium and chloride of benzoyle, like the ‘ iodide.’ In appearance and properties it closely re- sembles iodide of benzoyle. Chlo"rideof Benzoyle. Syn. Benz-chloeide*, Chloe-benzoyle*. Prep. Perfectly dry gaseous chlorine is transmitted through hy- dride of benzoyle (pure bitter-almond oil), as long as ‘hydrochloric acid’ continues to be formed; the excess of ‘ chlorine ’ being subse- quently removed by the application of a gentle heat. The reaction occurs in the cold, hut proceeds more rapidly when the hydride is heated. If, however, a temperature higher than about 185° he employed, there will be a loss, by volatilisation, of a portion of the newly formed ‘ chloride,’ unless the vessel be connected with a well-cooled ‘ receiver ’ or other suitable condensing apparatus. Prop., Sfc. It is a limpid, colourless, vola- tile liquid, having a peculiar, disagreeable, and pungent odour. It boils at 196° Fahr.; is slowly decomposed by cold water, and rapidly by boiling water. It is slightly inflammable; its vapour, more so; and both burn with a greenish flame. Sp. gr., lT06j sp. gr. of vapour, 4*987. See Acids (Anhydrous and Organic), Benzoyle {ante), &c. Cy'anide of Benzoyle. Syn. Cyan'deet OP BENZOYLE. A Crystalline mass obtained, by distillation, from a mixture of cyanide of mercury and chloride of benzoyle. It fuses at about 88° Fahr. to a colourless, oily, inflammable liquid, possessing a pungent aromatic odour, not unlike that of cinnamon. It boils at 404-5° Fahr. Hy'dride of Benzoyle. Syn. Hy'deueet op BENZOYLE ; PUEE BITTEE-ALMOND OIL. Prep. 1. The crude oil of bitter almonds is agitated with a moderately dilute solution of proto- chloride of iron which has been previously mixed with fresh hydrate of lime in excess, and the whole, after having been placed in a retort connected with a suitable receiver, is subjected to distillation. The hydeide passes over mixed with ‘water,’ from which it is easily separated after repose. By subjecting it to a second agitation and distillation with a fresh mixture of the ‘ protochi oride ’ and ‘ hy- drate,’ and, after careful separation from the water which distils over with it, allowing it to remain for some hours in contact with a few fragments of fused chloride of calcium, to free it from all traces of adhering water, the pro- duct will be nearly chemically pure, provided the whole process has been conducted with as little access of air as possible. 2. (Liebig.) Agitate the crude oil of bitter- almonds with binoxide of mercury in slight ex- cess, and, after a few days’ contact, rectify the oil from a little fresh binoxide of mercury. The product is quite pure, when the process is properly managed. The ‘ hicyanide of mer- cury ’ thus formed may be either employed as such, or reconverted into oxide of mercury and hydrocyanic acid. Prop., tt(c. A rather thin, colourless liquid, of great refractive power, and characteristic and agreeable odour; soluble in 35 parts of water; miscible in all proportions with alcohol and ether; boils at 356° Fahr.; on exposure to the air it rapidly absorbs oxygen, and be- comes converted into a mass of crystallised benzoic acid; heated with solid hydrate of potassa, hydrogen is evolved, and benzoate op POTASSA formed; with the alkaline bisulphites it forms beautiful crystalline compounds. Its flame, and that of its vapour, is bright hut very smoky. Sp. gr., 1*043. It differs from the crude or common oil of bitter-almonds chiefly in the absence of ‘ hydrocyanic acid,’ ( I] !'1 ' I ; 1 r» :} i << I ' N