CHILDREN—CHIMNEYS. 429 1. Sulphate of copper, 1 oz.; rosemary water, 1 pint; dissolve. 2. Sat ammoniac, 1 oz.; vinegar, ^ pint. 3. Sal ammoniac, 1 oz.; rum, ^ pitit; cam- phor, 1 dr. The affected part is wetted with the above night and morning, and when dry, is touched with a little simple ointment, cold cream, or pomatum. 4. Soap liniment, 2 oz.; tincture of can- tharides, 1 oz.; oil of cajeput, 2 dr. 5. Oil of turpentine, 2 oz.; camphor, 3 dr.; oil of cajeput, 1 dr. The application of the last two is accompanied by gentle friction. 6. (Dr. Geaves’Peeventive.) Sulphate of copper, 20 gr.; water, 1 oz. As the first three. 7. (Lejeune’s Balsam.) See Chilblain Balsam. 8. (LINN.EUS’ REMEDY.) Hydrochloric acid, 1 oz.; wafer, 11 cz. As No. 3. 9. (Morton’s Liniment.) Calomel and camphor, of each, 1 dr.; spermaceti ointment, 4 dr.; oil of turpentine and cocoa-nut oil, of each, 2 dr. As No. 5. 10. (Russian remedy.) The rind of per- fectly ripe cucumbers, dried with the soft parts attached. For wse, they are placed with I the inner side, previously soaked in warm I water, over the sore parts. (Med. Zeitung.) 11. (Swediaur’s Paste.) Bitter almonds, 8 oz.; honey, 6 oz.; powdered camphor and I flour of mustard, of each, ^ oz.; burnt alum i and olibanum, of each, \ oz.; yolks of 3 eggs ; beat to a paste. To be applied night and morning. 12. (Vance’s Cream.) Ointment of nitrate I of mercury, 1 oz.; camphor, 1 dr.; oil of tur- j pentine, 2 dr.; oil of olives, 4 dr.; mix well I together. To be applied, by gentle friction, 2 or 3 times daily. I Obs. All the preceding preparations are j intended for chilblains before they break. ! The liniments of ammonia, camphor, opium, I soap, and turpentine, as well as the compound camphor liniment of the London Pharma- copoeia, are also excellent preparations for the i same purposes. 13. (Wahler’s Ointment.) Black oxide of iron, bole, and oil of turpentine, of each, 1 dr.; resin cerate, 1 oz. For broken chilblains. ' We have found a mixture of equal parts of I calamine cerate and resin cerate answer quite as well. See Cerate, Ointment. CHIL'DREN (Care of). See Infancy. Children (Diseases of). See the respective I heads, and Diseases. CHIL'LIES. See Capsicum, Peppers. CHIM'NEYS were not introduced into Eng- land until the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and for a considerable period the principles of I their construction were ill-understood. When the air inside and outside a chimney is at the same temperature, an equilibrium exists; there is no draught in the chimney, because the downward tendency of that within is counteracted by the upward pressure of that I without. Let a fire be kindled in the grate; hot air is evolved, the chimney is heated, the air it contains suffers expansion, and a portion is expelled. The chimney now contains a smaller weight of air than it did before; the external and internal columns no longer equi- balance each other, the warmer and lighter air is forced upwards from below, and its place is occupied by cold, and consequently heavier air. If the tire continues to burn, and the chimney retains its temperature, this second portion of air is disposed of like the first, and the ascending current continues, so long as the sides of the chimney are hotter than the surrounding air. Should the reverse happen to be the case, as sometimes occurs from sudden atmospheric changes, the column of air within the chimney rapidly contracts in volume, the deficiency is filled up from with- out, the column of air becomes heavier than one of a corresponding height on the outside of it, or in the apartment, and, obeying the common laws of gravitation, it falls out of the throat of the chimney or fire-place, just as a heavy body sinks in water, and has its place occupied by air from above. In this way, a descending current, of more or less intensity and duration, is established, and, if there is a fire in the grate, the chimney “ smokes,” or, if the grate is empty, perhaps the smoke from neighbouring chimneys finds its way into our apartments. By the judicious arrangement of the fire-place, and the throat and fine of a chimney, an upward current may be constantly ensured so long as there is a fire in the grate, or the air of the apartment is warmer than the external atmosphere. Count Rumford was the first who scientifi- cally investigated the construction of chimneys. He showed that more heat is obtained from the fire by reflection when the covings ” are placed in an oblique position. He also directed that the fire itself should be kept as near to the hearth as possible, and that the “ throat” of the chimney should be constructed much narrower than was then the practice, in order to prevent the escape of so much heated air as happened with “ wide throats.” By contracting the open part of tlic fire-place immediately over the fire, as by lessening the wfidth of the hobs, or by bringing the “ throat of the chimney” closer to the fire, and by contracting the “throat of the chimney” itself, within certain limits, any desired amount of draught may be obtained. When the space above the fuel is too small, the “throat” too near the burning fuel, or the throat itself too contracted, the draught of a common chimney is often too strong, and much fuel and heat is wasted. When the reverse is the case, the draught is commonly too languid, the fire “ draws badly,” a portion of the smoke escapes into the room, and all the usual annoyances of a “ smoky chimney ” are suffered. By a proper attention to these conditions, a common fire-place may be adapted for the combustion of bituminous or