LINSEED—LIQUEFACTION. 844 4 dr.; dissolve by a gentle beat, and stir in oil of turpentine, 5 fl. oz. 4. (Ph. D.) Oil of turpentine, 5 fl. oz.; resin ointment, 8 oz.; mix by a gentle heat. This forms Dr. Kentish’s celebrated applica- tion to burns and scalds. The parts are first bathed with warm oil of turpentine or brandy, and then covered with pledgets of lint smeared with the liniment. 5. (Compound; Linimentum teeebin- THiN^ COMPOSITUM, L.)—fl. (Acetic j St. John Lonh’s liniment; Linimenthm teee- BINTHIN^ ACETICHM, L.) Oil of turpentine, 3 oz.; rose water, 2| fl. oz.; acetic acid, 5 dr.; oil of lemons, 1 dr.; yolk of egg, 1; make an' emulsion. As a counter-irritant in phthisis. b. (Ammoniated—Debreyne.) Lard, 3 oz.; melt, and add, of oil of turpentine and olive oil, of each, 1 oz.; when cold, further add of cam- phorated spirit, 4 fl. dr.; liquor of ammonia, 1 fl. dr. In sciatica, lumbago, &c. c. (Opiated—Recamier.) Oil of turpen- tine, 1 fl, oz.; oil of chamomile, 2 fl. oz.; tincture of oqnum, 1 fl. dr. In neuralgia, Ac. d. (Sulphuric—Ph. Castr. Ruthena.) Oil of turpentine, 2 oz.; olive oil, 5 oz.; mix, and add of dilute sulphuric acid, 1^ dr. See Acid Liniment. Liniment of Vera'trine. Syn. Linimenthm TEEATEi^, L. Prep. (Brande.) Veratrine, 8 gr.; alcohol, ^ fl. oz.; dissolve, and add of soap liniment, ^ fl. oz. In neuralgic and rheu- matic pains, gout, &c. Liniment of Ver'digris. Syn. Oxymel op VEEDIGEIS ; LiNIMENTHM iEEHGINIS (Ph. L.), Oxymel .eehginis (Ph. L. 1738), Oxymel CHPEI SHBACETATIS (Ph. D. 1826), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Verdigris (in powder), 1 oz.; vinegar, 7 fl. oz.; dissolve, filter through linen, add of honey, 14 oz., and evaporate to a proper con- sistence. Ohs. This preparation is wrongly named a ‘liniment.’ The College, after “beating about the bush” for nearly a century, found a right name for it in 1788; but, as in many other cases, soon abandoned it for another less appropriate. Oxymel of verdigris is stimulant, detergent, and escharotic. It is applied to indolent ulcers, especially of the throat, by means of a camel-hair pencil; and, diluted with water, it is used as a gargle. Care must be taken to avoid swallowing it, as it occasions vomiting and excessive purging. Ver'mifuge Liniment. Syn. Linimenthm ANTHELMINTICHM, L. VEEMIFHGHM, L. Prep. Castor oil, 1 oz.; essential oils of wormwood and tansy, of each, ^ oz.; Hr. Peschier’s ethe- real tincture of pennyroyal buds, 20 drops; mix. Employed in frictions on the abdomen in cases of worms in children. Its activity may be still further increased by the addition of a little garlic juice. (‘Journ. de Med.’) An ex- cellent medicine. Ware’s Liniment. Prep. From camphor liniment, 1 oz.; solution of carbonate of potassa, 1 dr. In amaurosis. White Liniment. The old name for spee- MACETI OINTMENT. Wilkinson’s Liniment. Prep. (Phoebus.) Prepared chalk, 20 gr.; sulphur, lard, and tar, of each, ^ oz.; mix, and add of Boyle's fuming liquor, 10 or 15 drops. In certain chronic skin diseases, neuralgia, &c. LIN'SEED. Syn. Flax seed ; Lini semina, L. “ The seed ” of “ Linum usitatissimum (Linn.), or common flax.’* (Ph. L.) Oily, emollient, demulcent, and nutritive. Ground to powder (linseed meal ; eaeina lini), it is used for poultices. The cake left after ex- pressing the oil (linseed cake; lini pla- centa) is used for feeding cattle. Under the form of TEA or inehsion, it is used as a diluent, and to allay irritation in bronchial, urinary, and other like affections. See Inehsion, Linen, &c. LINT. Syn. Lintehm, L. White linen- cloth, scraped by hand or machinery, so as to render it soft and woolly. The ‘ hand-made lint ’ is now little used; it was prepared from pieces of old linen-cloth. The ‘ machine-made lint ’ is prepared from a fabric woven on pur- pose. A lint made from cotton (cotton-lint) is now largely manufactured; it is much in- ferior to the true lint, being a bad conductor of heat. Lint is used for dressing ulcers, either alone or smeared with some suitable ointment or cerate. Medica'ted Lint. Syn. Lintehm medica- THM, L. NIGBHM, L. INEERNALE, L. Prep. 1. Nitrate of silver, 20 to 30 gr.; distilled , water, 1 fl.oz.; dissolve, saturate dry lint, 4 '! oz,, with the solution, and expose it in a saucer )• or capsule to the light and air, until ifc has become black and dry. 2. From nitrate of silver and nitrate of copper, of each, ^ dr.; lint,\ oz.; water, \\ fl. oz.; as the last. Used to dress old and indolent ulcers. LIP SALVE. See Salve. LIQUATION. The-process of “sweating out ” by heat the more fusible metals of an alloy. Metallurgists avail themselves of this method in assaying and refining the precious metals, and procuring antimony and some other metals from their ores. LIQUEFA"CIENTS. Syn. Resolvents ; Liqheeacientia, Resolventia, L. In phar- macy, substances or agents which promote secretion and exhalation, soften and loosen textures, and promote the absorption or re- moval of enlargements, indurations, &c. To this class belong the alkalies, antimony, bro- mine, chlorine, iodine, mercury, sulphur, &c., and their preparations. 1 LIQUEFACTION. The assumption of the ^ liquid form. It is usually applied to the con- version of a solid into the liquid state, which may arise from increase of temperature (fh- sion), absorption of water from the atmo-