922 MOHAIR—MONOMANIA. are very easily resolved by the * method of INDETEEMINATE ANALYSIS,’ ©ven by persons but slightly conversant with rudimentary algebra; of which, indeed, they form a simple class of problems, often admitting of an almost indefinite number of solutions. MO'HAIR. The hair of a goat indigenous in Asia Minor. It is dyed and manufactured by similar materials and in a similar manner to wool. MOIL. See Cidek. MOIRRE METALLIQUE. [Fr.] A beau- tiful crystalline appearance produced on the surface of tin plate by acids. The tin plate is submitted for a few seconds, whilst gently heated, to the action of dilute aqua regia, by which it acquires a variegated primrose ap- pearance. It is afterwards washed in hot water, dried, and lacquered. The degree of heat and dilution of the acid modifies the beauty and character of the surface. The effect is also vained by employing dilute sulphuric acid, either alone, or mixed with a portion of nitric or hydrochloric acid; or by using a solution of citric acid or caustic po- tassa. According to Herberger, the best metal for the purpose is plate iron, which has been coated by dipping it into a tin bath composed of pure tin, 200 parts; copper, 3 parts; ar- senic, 1 part. The varnish should consist of copal in highly rectified spirit. Moiree metal- lique is in much less demand now than for- merly. MOLAS'SES. See Teeacle. MOLES. The small, soft excrescences and discolorations of the skin which are popularly known under this name may, when slight, be removed by touching them every day with a little concentrated acetic acid, by means of a hair pencil, observing due care to prevent the application from spreading to the surrounding parts. This does not discolour the skin. The application of lunar caustic is also very effec- tive, but it turns the spot temporarily black. In the pure mole there is always a considerable production of hair. When other means fail, they may be easily and safely removed by sur- gical means. The operation is trifling; and, when judiciously performed, no trace of such a proceeding is left behind. MOLUC'CA BALM. See Liqfetje. MOLYB'DATE. See Molybdic Acid. MOLYB'DENUM. A very rare metal, hav- ing a white colour, discovered by Hielm, in 1782. Prep. By exposing molybdic acid, mixed with charcoal and placed in a covered crucible, to the strongest heat of a smith’s forge. Prop., ^c. It is brittle, and very infusible ; when heated in contact with the air, it is con- verted into molybdic acid. Sp. gr. about 8'625. With oxygen it forms a peotoxide and bin- oxide, and molybdic ACID (see below). With chlorine it forms a peotochloeide and Bi- CHLOEIDE. With sulphur it unites to form 2 or more SFLPHrEEXS, Tlie only one of the above compounds that possesses any practical interest is molybdic acid. Protox'ide of Molybdenum. Syn. Molyb- DENI PEOTOXYDFM, L. Prep. A Solution of molybdate of potassa is treated hydrochlo- ric acid in sufficient excess to redissolve the precipitate (molybdic acid) at first thrown down; metallic zinc is then immersed in the acid solution, and after a time an excess of caustic potassa is added, when hydeated PEOTOXIDE OF MOLYBDENUM is precipitated. In this case it is soluble in acids and in solu- tion of carbonate of ammonia. When heated in the air, it burns, and is converted into BIN- OXIDE OF MOLYBDENUM. Binox'ide of Molybdenum. Syn. Molyb- DENI BiNOXYDUM, L. Prep. 1. (Anhy- DEOUS.) By heating molybdate of soda with sal ammoniac. Insoluble in acids. 2. (Hydeated.) By digesting metallic cop- per in a hydrochloric solution of molybdic acid until the liquid turns red, and then adding ammonia in considerable excess. Soluble in acids yielding red solutions; nitric acid con- verts it into MOLYBDIC ACID. MOLYB'Die ACID. Syn. Molybdenic acid, Peeoxide of molybdenum ; Acidum molyb- DICUM, L. Prep. Native sulphuret of molyb- denum, after being well roasted, is reduced to fine powder, dissolved in liquor of ammonia, and the solution filtered, and evaporated to dryness ; the residue (‘ molybdate of ammonia’) is then dissolved in water, purified by crystal- lization ; and, lastly, decomposed by heat. Prop., Sfc. Small white scales, soluble in 570 parts of water ; the solution reddens lit- mus paper ; dissolves in the alkalies, forming ALKALINE MOLYBDATES, from which it is again precipitated by strong acids. It is used in the preparation of molybdenum blue, and in calico-printing, but its scarcity precludes its extensive employment in the arts. Molyb- date OF AMMONIA is the salt principally used in dyeing. Silks and cottons passed through a solution of this salt, then through a bath soured with hydrochloric acid, and, lastly (without washing), through another of proto- chloride of tin, are dyed of a rich and perma- nent blue colour. A solution of molybdate of ammonia in excess of nitric acid forms a valu- able reagent for phosphoric acid, with which it gives a beautiful yellow precipitate (‘ phos- pho-molybdate of ammonia’). MOMOR'DICINE. See Elateeine. MONE'SIA. Syn. Monesia baek, Buean- HEiM B.; CoETEX MONESIA, L. 'The bark of Chrysophyllum Buranheim, a tree growing in the Brazils. The rough imported extract of this drug also commonly passes under the name of monesia. It is astringent, and possesses no advantage over rhatany or catechu. Dose. (Of the latter) 15 to 20 gr. MONE’SIN. A peculiar acrid principle, analogous to saponin, found in monesia baek, to the extent of 4*7g. MONOMA'NIA, SeQ IjfSANiTY.