459 COCCULUS INDICUS—COCHINEAL. I I Prop., ^c. A gray powder, turning black on exposure to the air; strongly basic; and ' forming salts with the acids, having a fine red , tint. It is remarkable for the magnificent I bine colour it communicates to glass, and by I this character its presence may be readily I detected before the blowpipe; the substance I to be examined being fused with borax on a loop of platinum wire. Used to make blue I colours for painters, stains and glazes for ena- ! mellers, glass-melters, potters, &c. In medi- j cine, it has occasionally been given as a remedy ! for rheumatism. 2. Sesquiox'ide of Cobalt. Sgn. Peeox'ide I OF COBALT. A black, insoluble, neutral pow- der, obtained by mixing solutions of cobalt I and of chloride of lime; or, by heating the protoxide to redness in an open vessel. Phos'phate of Cobalt. Prep. As the ace- I tate, substituting phosphoric for acetic acid. ■ An insoluble purple powder, which, when heated along with 8 times its weight of gela- tinous alumina, produces a blue pigment I (cobalt BLUE, COBALT ULTEAMARINE), al- I most equal in beauty to ultramarine. (See i below.) Sul'phate of Cobalt. By boiling sulphuric acid on the metal, or by dissolving the oxide j in the acid. It forms reddish crystals, soluble I in 24 parts of water. ; Cobalto-Ultramarine. A fine blue pigment, ; prepared by mixing freshly precipitated alu- \ mina, 8 parts, with phosphate or arseniate of I cobalt, 1 part; drying the mixture, and then slowly heating it to redness. By daylight the : colour is pure blue, but by artificial light it is violet. See Blue Pigments. COC'CULUS INDICUS. Syn. Indian bee- EiES, Indian cockles, Levant nut. Louse I GRAINS ; BAC'CA OeIENTA'LIS, CoCCULUS PIS- CATOE'ius, &c., L. The fruit of the Anamirta I paniculata, a shrub which abounds on the j sandy shores of Malabar, and several other , islands in the Indian Ocean. “ The kernels I should fill at least two thirds of the fruit ' (Ph. E.) Uses, 8(c. Cocculus indicus is poisonous to I all animals, and to most vegetables. It is I never employed internally in medicine, but an ' ointment, formed by mixing the powder with lard, has been used to destroy pediculi and in porrigo. Its active principle is piceotoxine, a peculiar crystalline substance possessing all the poisonous properties of the berry in an exalted degree, and of which it contains about 2g. A small portion of the cocculus indicus imported is used by poachers, and a still smaller quantity to destroy vermin, the remaining, and by far the greater part, being employed to adulterate beer and wine. It forms a profit- able article of trade to the wholesale druggist, who is enabled to sell it at an exorbitantly high price to brewers, from its being a con- traband article. The use of this dangerous drug in brewing is no secret, as several un- principled persons, who have written treatises for brewers and publicans, have openly recom- mended its use. One of these writers states, that “ it is impossible with pure malt and hops alone, to produce a strong-bodied porter he therefore recommends the use of “ cocculus indicus, grains of paradise, and nux vomica.” Another author, with equal modesty, actually gives full directions for its use. He orders 3 lb. of cocculus to be used for every 10 quar- ters of malt, and adds, “ it gives an inebriating quality, which passes for strength of liquor ; it prevents second fermentation in bottled beer, and consequently, the bursting of the bottles in warm climates.” Here is a whole- sale system of slow poisoning, publicly recom- mended by men who, like too many other moral criminals, remain unpunished by the law. The conscientious brewer, who under- stands the art which he professes, finds no difficulty in producing “ a strong-bodied por- ter” from malt and hops alone. It is only those whose cupidity induces them to put too little malt and hops, and too much water in their beer, that encounter any diffi- culty in so doing. The addition of cocculus indicus rather deteriorates than increases the “ keeping qualities” of malt liquor. Honest brewers should know this. Yet, in defiance of proscription and heavy fines, the trade in this and other like articles continues, though carried on clandestinely. The general way in which the fraud is managed, is to pack the drug in common soda barrels, and to place 3 or 4 inches of small crystals of Scotch soda at the bottom and top of the cask. In this way the package readily passes off as a cask of common soda, and even should it be opened the alkali would first present itself to view, and thus satisfy the examiner. Another way commonly adopted, is to form it into an extract, known in the trade by the name of B. E., or black extract, which is ostensibly prepared for tanners, but its real destination is the beer-cask. See Beer, I^OEiXEIt See COCHINEAL. Syn. Coc'cus (Ph. L. E. & D.), L.; Grana fina. Span. The Coccus Cacti (Linn.), an insect found upon the cactuses of Mexico. It is of great value as a dye-stuff. The female insects, when matured, are brushed oft’ the plants and dried by artificial heat. The entire insect is used. There are two varieties known in commerce—silver cochineal, which has a purplish-gray or silver-gray colour; and black cochineal, which is smaller, and of a reddish or purplish-black colour. The former is that commonly met with. Adult. Genuine cochineal has the sp. gr. 1*25. It is commonly increased in weight by slightly moistening it with gum-water, and then rouncing it in a bag, first -with sulphate of baryta, and then with finely powdered bone black. In this way its sp. gr. is raised to 1'35, in consequence of being loaded by about 12g of useless, foreign matter. Uses, 8fc. Cochineal is principally used to