ACETICA—ACETIFICATIOX. 21 .{mix. Sp.gr. 1*006. It contains about 4g of ;the hydrated acid. I Strong Acetic Acid. Syn. Acidttm aceti- !cum for'te, Ph. D. 1850, Prep. 1. (Ph. D.) Glacial acetic acid (Ph. D.), 6 fl. oz.; distilled \watery 4 fl. oz.; mix. Sp. gr. 1*066. It con- [tains about 59§ of the hydrated acid. I 2. (A. A. foe'titts, Ph. L.) See Acidum Iaceticum, Ph. L. 1836. ,: Acetic Acid (from wood). Syn. Acidum aceticum e lig'no vena'le, Ph. E., and Ph. D. 1850. The acetic acid of commerce; ■purified pyroligneous acid; sp. gr. 1*044. See Beaufoy’s Acetic Acid. . ACE'TICA. [L.] Medicated vinegars. ACETIPICA'TIOH. [Eng.,Fr.] Syn. Ace- tifac'tion* ; Acetifica'tio, L. ; Essig- (MACHEN, Einsaueen, Ger. In chemistry, the 'act or process of converting into vinegar; or I [the state of undergoing such conversion. Acetic acid is produced either by the partial dehydrogenation and subsequent oxidation of bodies containing its elements, or by their de- structive distillation. The^rs^ is effected— by their exposure, in a finely divided state, to the action of air or atmospheric oxygen, as in the ^ quick-process’ of making vinegar; or— by submitting them, in combination with ferments, to contact with a free supply of at- mospheric air, as in the old ‘field-process’ of making vinegar; or—by exposure to the direct action of chemical or mechanical oxidising agents, as condensed air (‘ platinum-black pro- cess’), chromic and nitric acid, &c. In general, it is alcohol more or less dilute, particularly as it exists in fermented liquors, which is thus converted into acetic acid. In the second pro- cess (‘destructive distillation’), wood is the substance usually employed, and caloric is the operative agent which develops the acid. As originally pointed out by Liebig, the . conversion of alcohol into acetic acid is not im- mediate and direct. The atmospheric oxygen first oxidises two equivalents of its hydrogen, aldehyde (a very oxidisable substance) and water being formed; and this aldehyde uniting with two equiv. of oxygen produces one equiv. of anhydrous acetic acid and 1 equiv. of basic water, which together form HYDRATED ACETIC ACID. After the first formation of aldehyde, the two processes, un- less artificially checked, go on simultaneously, as long as any undecomposed alcohol is present. “ In the preparation of vinegar,” says Lie- big, “ the hydrogen of alcohol, with the for- mation of water and the evolution of heat, is oxidised at the expense of the oxygen in con- tact with it; the residue is aldehyde, a sub- stance possessing as great an affinity for oxygen as sulphurous acid ; and by uniting di- rectly with the latter (oxygen), it produces acetic acidP {^gr. and Physiol. Chem., 321.) These changes are represented in the fol- lowing equations:— Ethvle. Acetyle. 1st stage . C4H5, O, HO -+- Ogiz C4H3, O, HO -f 2 aq. Alcoliol. Aldehyde. Or wvmerically- Anhydr. acetic acid. 2d stage C4H3, O, HO +03= C4H3, 03 + aq. V ^ Aldehyde. Hydr. acetic a^v 1 equiv. of alcohol C4H6O2 iz 46 (minus) 2 „ hydrogen H2 n: 2 1 „ aldehyde (plus) 2 „ oxygen I 1 equiv. of anhydr. acet. acid . 1 „ water ..... I Liquids capable of acetification, or of yield- ' ing acetic acid or vinegar by any of the ordi- nary processes, must therefore necessarily contain alcohol, or some substance (as sugar) which is susceptible of the ‘ vinous fermenta- tion,’ and the consequent production of alco- hol. The oxygenation of this alcohol is greatly facilitated by the presence of nitrogenous organic matters in a state of change (i. e., ferments); and hence, acetification is often termed the acetous fermentation. It is, however, a true instance of slow ‘ combustion ’ C4H4O2 = 44 O2ZZ 16 1 equiv. of 1 ^ ^ hydrated ?• — C4H4O4 — 60 acet. acid J (eremacausis), as shown by Ure and Liebig; and not of ‘ fermentation ’ properly so called. Acetification serves to combine bodies (alcohol and aldehyde) with atmospheric oxygen; whereas, in a true fermentation, there is a ‘ disruption ’ of compound atoms, and the production of bodies of simpler atomic form. The presence of ‘ ferments ’ is also not essen- tial to the change; since even pure alcohol becomes acetified when exposed to condensed air, and to oxidising agents, as some of the stronger acids. Probably ‘ferments’ may H ■s-='a={