EEVALENTA AKABICA—RHAMNIN. 1170 no doubt, simply dissolved in the serum of the blood. According to Prof. Liebig, the cor- puscles act as carriers of another portion, in virtue of the iron which they contain, that metal being alternately in the state of sesqui- oxide and of carbonate of the protoxide—of sesquioxide in the arteries, and of carbonate of protoxide in the veins, by loss of oxygen and acquisition of carbonic acid. Mulder considers fibrin of the blood to act in the same man- ner j being true fibrin in the veins, and, in part at least, an oxide of protein in the arteries. The lungs, as is well known, receive the atmospheric air through the trachea or wind- pipe. At the root of the neck this divides into two branches, called bronchi, and each bronchus, upon entering its respective lung, divides into an infinity of small tubes. The latter terminate in small pouches, called the air-cells, and a number of these little air-cells communicate together at the extremity of each small tube. The number of air-cells in the two lungs has been estimated at 1,744,000,000, and the extent of the membrane which lines the cells and tubes together at 1500 square feet. (Dr. Addison.! Under ordinary circumstances, from 22 to 43 cubic inches of air are thrown out at each expiration; but, by a forced efibrt, 50 or 60 inches are ordinarily expelled. The number of respirations per minute in health, when the individual is tranquil and undisturbed, is about 15. Exercise increases this number. See Food, NrTEixio^r, &c. Artifi"cial Respiration. Various means have been adopted for this purpose, among which blowing air into the lungs is, perhaps, that generally adopted. A better, and, in general, a much more efficient method, is as follows:— Powerful but not violent pressure is made upon the sides of the chest and upon the abdo- men at the same time, by which the cavity of the thorax is diminished, and the air contained in the lungs is expelled; the compression is then suddenly withdrawm, when the elasticity of the ribs causes them to resume their old expanded positions; the chest is again en- larged, a partial vacuum is formed, and air rushes into the lungs, to be again expelled by pressure upon the ribs and abdomen as before. By this means artificial respiration may be kept up for a great length of time, without the use of bellows, or any other apparatus. The chief principle of Dr. Marshall Hall’s so-called ‘ EEADT method’ is the postural performance of artificial respiration. The patient is first placed gently on the face, and then turned on the side ; then on the face again, alternately; these measures being repeated deliberately, efficiently, and perseveringly, fifteen times in the minute. When the prone position is re- sumed, equable, but efficient, pressure is ap- plied along the spine; this pressure is removed immediately before rotation on the side. The ‘ SiLTESTEE METHOD,’ invented by Dr. Henry Silvester, is now acknowledged to be far more effective than Dr. Hall’s method. and is adopted by the Royal Humane Socii for the restoration of the apparently drown It consists in laying the patient on the ba slightly raising the head and shoulders, drs ing the tongue forw’ards, and keeping it so ' passing an elastic band over it and under chin. The arms are then grasped just abi the elbows, and drawm gently upwards ui they meet above the head (this is for the p pose of drawing air into the lungs), keep the arms in that position for two secor The patient’s arms are then turned down,: pressed gently and firmly for two seco against the sides of the chest (this is for purpose of pressing the air out of the lun; Artificial breathing is thus carried on. Tt efforts are repeated fifteen times in a mini until a spontaneous effort to respire is j ceived. During the employment of tl means the nostrils are excited with snufi' smelling salts, or the throat is tickled wit feather. After natural breathing has b. restored, warmth and circulation are indii. by wrapping the body in hot blankets, ap] • ing bottles or bladders of hot water, hea. bricks, &c., to the pit of the stomach, the a . i pits, between the thighs, and to the sole ’ j the feet, and by rubbing the limbs upwi i firmly and energetically. I REVALEN'TA ARABICA. A mixture f the red Arabian or Egyptian lentil with ba i four, and a little sugar or salt. (‘ Lano) See Lentil and Eevalenta. REVERB'ERATORY FURNACE. See F • NACE. { REVI"VER. Prep. 1. (Black eevd , I Paeis’s anticaedihm.) — a. Blue t" } (bruised), 4 oz. ; logwood and sumach, of e i 1 oz.; vinegar, 1 quart; macerate in a cL i 1 vessel, at a gentle heat, for 24 hours, 11 strain off the clear, add iron filings and g '» copperas, of each, 1 oz., shake it occasion jr for a w'eek, and preserve it in a corked hot. b. Galls, 1 lb.; logwood, 2 lb.; boil r 2 hours in water, 5 quarts, until reduced a j gallon, then strain, and add of green copy*, h I ^ lb. Used to restore the colour of fi d j black cloth. 2. (Blhe eetivee.) From soluble Prut n blue, 1 oz. ; dissolved in distilled water, 1 Used for either black or blue cloth. RHABAR'BERIN. Syn. Rheumin, BAEBEEic ACID, Rheumic A. The ye colouring principle of rhubarb. It is obta d by digesting powdered rhubarb in ether, ** I tilling off greater part of the ether, and )• I mitting the remainder to spontaneous »• j poration. The crystals thus obtained 'e ! purified by repeated solutions and cryst i- I zations in alcohol. Orange-yellow. Rhabaebeein, ehaponticin, and bhn'i are now known to be impure forms of CHB o* PHANIC ACID (which 5<?e). RHAM'NIN, Prep. Express the juice iQ buckthorn berries scarcely ripe, which is rejected; boil the cake or residue with w ‘ft