785 IODINE. An elementary substance accidentally disco- vered in 1812, by De Courtois, a saltpetre manufacturer at Paris. It was first examined and described by M. Clement, in 1813, and its precise nature was soon afterwards deter- mined by Sir H. Davy and M. Gay-Lussac. “ It was not until 1819, some six years after its discovery, that iodine was first em- ployed in pharmacy. The merit of the in- troduction of this jjpowerful curative agent into medicine is due to Dr. Coindet, a physi- cian of Geneva, who in that year commenced a series of experiments upon it as a remedy for bronchocele or goitre.” (C. W. Quin.) It is found in each of the three kingdoms of na- ture, hut exists in greatest abundance in the vegetable family AlgcB (Seaweeds). Prep. Iodine is principally manufactur- ed in the neighbourhood of Glasgow, from the mother-waters of kelp, known as iodine lye. 1. Kelp (the half-vitrified ashes of sea- weed) is exhausted with water., and the solu- tion filtered; the liquid is then concentrated by evaporation until it is reduced to a very small volume, the chloride of sodium, carbo- nate of soda, chloride of potassium, and other salts, being removed as they successively as- sume the crystalline form; oil of vitriol is now added, in excess, to the residual dark-brown * mother-liquor’ {iodine lye), and the evolved gases are either kindled or allowed to escape by a flue ; the liquid, after standing some time, is decanted or filtered, heated to about 140° Fahr., and mixed with as much hinoxide of manga- nese as there was oil of vitriol employed; the whole is then introduced into a cylindrical leaden still, furnished with a very short head and connected with 2 or 3 large globular glass receivers, and heat is applied, when fumes of iodine are evolved and condensed in the re- ceivers. During the distillation very great care is taken to watch the process, and prevent the neck of the still becoming choked with condensed iodine. For this purpose the head of the still is usually furnished with a movable stopper, by which the process may be watched, and additions of manganese or sulphuric acid made, if required. To render the product pure, it should be passed between blotting paper, and then resuhlimed in glass or stone- ware. 2. (Soheiran.) A small solution of sulphate of copper, 4 parts, and protosulphate of iron, 9 parts, are added to the mother liquor of the soda works, as long as a white precipitate is thrown down; this precipitate (iodide of copper) is collected, dried, mixed with its own weight of finely powdered black oxide of manganese, and distilled by a strong heat in a retort, when dry iodine passes over. By the addition of sulphuric acid with the man- ganese, a less heat is required, but the pro- duct is wet with water, like that of the last formula. 3. (Ure.) The residual liquor of the manu- facture of soap from kelp (or other iodine lye), of the sp. gr. of 1-374, is heated to 230° Fahr., with sulphuric acid diluted with half its weight of water, after which the liquid is allowed to cool, and is either decanted or filtered; to every 12 y?. oz. of the filtrate 1000 gr. of black oxide of manganese, in powder, are added; the mixture is put into a glass globe or mat- rass with a wide neck, over which is inverted another glass globe, and heat is applied by means of a charcoal chaufier, when iodine sub- limes very copiously, and condenses in the upper vessel; as soon as the latter is warm it is re- placed by another, and the two globules are thus applied in succession, as long as violet fumes are evolved. The iodine is washed out of the globes with a little cold water. A thin disc of wood, having a hole in its centre, is placed over the shoulder of the matrass, to prevent the heat from acting on the globular receiver. On the large scale, a leaden still, as before described, may be employed, and receivers of either stoneware or glass; and the addition of the sulphuric acid is made in a basin or trough of stoneware or wood. Prod. 12 oz. yield 80 to 100 gr. Prop. Iodine is usually met with under the form of semi-crystalline lumps having a semi- metallic lustre, or in micaceous, friable scales, somewhat resembling plumbago or gunpowder. By carefully conducted sublimation, or by the slow evaporation of its solution in hydriodic acid, it may be obtained in rhombic plates an inch long. It has a grayish-black colour, a hot acrid taste, and a disagreeable odour, not much unlike that of chlorine. It fuses at 225° into a deep-brown liquid, volatilizes slowly at ordinary temperatures, boils at 347°, forming a magnificent violet-coloured vapour; when mixed with water, it rapidly rises with the steam at 212° Fahr. It dissolves in about 7000 parts of water, and freely in alcohol, ether, solutions of the iodides, liquid hydriodic acid, chloroform, petroleum, bisulphuret of carbon, &c. Most of these solutions have the brown colour of liquid iodine, but some (par- ticularly those formed by the last three sol- vents named above) have the beautiful violet colour of the vapour. It bleaches like chlo- rine, only more feebly. Iodine has an exten- sive range of affinity; with the salifiable bases, it forms compounds termed iodides (iodd- EETS, HYDRIODATES, &c.), of which Several are used in medicine. Its principal compounds with oxygen are the iodic and periodic ACIDS. Sp. gr. 4-946 to 4-948. According to Debaugne, the addition of syrup of orange peel or tannin to water greatly increases its power of dissolving iodine. 2 gr. of the latter will enable 6 fl. oz. of water to take 10 gr. of iodine. A knowledge of these facts may prove useful to the pharmaceutist. Pur. It is entirely soluble in rectified spirit, and in a solution of iodide of potassium. “ On applying heat to it, it first liquefies, and then (wholly) sublimes in violet coloured vapour.” 50