168 ANGELICA—ANGINA. its pulsating synclironically with that vessel, by diminishing in size when the blood is prevented from passing into it owing to pressure either on it, or on the vessel nearer the heart, and by generally being accompanied by a peculiar ■sound, usually now-a-days termed ‘ bruit de soufflet,’ recognised by applying the ear over the swelling or through the medium of a ste- thoscope. When the cure is not spontaneous, and the artery is accessable, the treatment is wholly surgical. The part is cut open and, in spontaneous aneurism, a ligature is usually ap- plied at some distance from the disease; on the other hand, if the aneurism is the result of ex ternal injury, the ligature is applied as close above the injured part as possible, and another below it; the aneurism itself, in the lalter case, being cut into, and the blood or fibrine let out. In spontaneous aneurism, when the ligature is applied, the tumour is untouched, or left en- tirely to nature.! Wherever large blood-vessels are involved there is considerable danger, both in the exist- ence of aneurism, and in its surgical treatment. Eormerly, aneurism of the humeral artery was not infrequently the result of injury with the lancet, during venesection. Happily, however, owing to the comparative disuse of blood- letting of late years, and the operation being now performed by qualified practitioners, in- stead of by barber-surgeons or empyrics, it is now of rare occurrence. ANGELICA C-jel'-). [L., Port., Sp.; Ph. E. & D.] Syn. Gaeden angelica; Ange- LiQEE, Pr.; Angelika, A.-wuezel, Angel- KEATJT, Ger. The angelica archangeVica of Linnseus, an aromatic herbaceous plant with a biennial, fleshy root, indigenous to the north of Europe, but frequently found wild in Eng- land, and largely cultivated in our gardens. Dried root (angelica, Ph. E.), aperient, car- minative, diaphoretic, and tonic; much es- teemed by the Laplanders, both as food and medicine fruit or seed (angelica, Ph. D.), resembles the root, but is weaker. The whole plant has been extolled as an aromatic tonic. As a masticatory, it leaves an agreeable glow- ing heat in the mouth. The aromatic proper- ties of this plant depend on a peculiar volatile oil and resin. Uses, Sfc. It has been recommended in diarrhoea, dyspepsia, debility, and someyerers/ but is now seldom used in medicine.—Dose. 30 gr. to 1 dr. The dried root and seeds are used by rectifiers to flavour gin and liqueurs; and the fresh root, tender stems, stalks, &c., are made by the confectioners into an aromatic candy. See Candy, Gin, Liqueees, &c. Angelica Atropurpu"rea. [Linn.] Syn. AmeeTcan Angelica; Angelica, Ph. U. S. Ilab. North America. Eesembles garden an- gelica, but placed by some botanists in a sepa- rate, though allied genus. It is a popular re- medy for flatulent colic, indigestion, and car- ^ See rer^ussou’s "Sys. of True. Sury.f itli eel.; Cliurclull, 1857. dialgia, in the United States; and is there • regarded as tonic, cordial, and aphrodisiac. ANGELIC'IC ACID (-lis'-). Syn. Valeei- an'ic acid (?). A volatile substance, noticed by L. A. Buchner jun., in angelica-root. It has a pungent sour smell, and a biting acid > taste; is sometimes fluid and oleaginous, and sometimes crystallised in striated prisms.^ ANGELTCINE (-e-sin). A variety of oxi- dised extractive found in angelica-root. AN"GER (ang'-giir). Mental emotion ex- cited by some real or supposed injury, and usually accompanied with a present purpose of revenge, or a desire to obtain satisfaction from the oftender. For its influence on life and health, see Passions. ANGUNA (-ji-')- [L.] Syn. Angine, Fr. In pathology, an imprecise term applied to several diseases attended with a sense of suffocation, or difficult deglutition; as, inflammatory affections of the throat, quinsey, croup, &c. Angina Pec'toris. [L.] Syn. Neueal'gia oe THE HEAET, SPASM OE THE B..X ; AnGINE DE poiteine, Fr. Literally, anguish, constriction or suffocation of the chest. In pathology, a dreadful organic disease of the heart or great vessels, in which is felt the most excruciating j pain in the chest, with palpitation, intense anxiety, and a distressing sense of impending suffocation and death. The pain is usually felt at the lower part of the chest, inclining to the left side, and passing from the sternum to the spine; and, in acute cases, extends to the left arm. The suffering often amounts to agony, and life probably could hardly be sus- tained for more than a few minutes, where / the attack comes on in its most urgent form, > did not its severity abate. The paroxysms occur suddenly, and as suddenly cease; and they vary in duration from half a minute to several minutes, and, in a few cases, to two or three hours. In the chronic form of the dis- ease the symptoms are less violent, but more frequent and permanent. The fits are com- monly induced by rough exercise, excessive mental emotion, and other like exciting causes; but in some cases they occur without any previous exertion or obvious cause. Treatm., ^c. From the peculiar nature of 1 this disease, and the difficulty of its diagnosis, I it is one that none but an experienced medical » practitioner has any chance in treating sue- i cessfully, and he—but little. Friction, stimu- i lants, and counter-irritants, may be applied to the chest, and to the lower extremities, both i during the attacks, and to prevent their re- I currence; and a life of great tranquillity, -il with a carefully regulated light and nutritious, but unexciting diet, uniformity of habits, and placid occupation of the mind, great cleanli- ness, the use of flannel next the skin, and above all, pure air, should be sought as much as j)Ossible. These will assist the efforts of the ' physician, and beyond them the patient cannot safely move. For use on the approach or ac- 2 Schmidt’s ‘‘ Jahrl.,” 1842. i