999 OINTMENT. 1 [yd. partes cequales,^ is prepared with mercury, 2 lb.; suet, 1| lb.; lard, 13^ lb. Uses. This ointment is chiefly used to intro- uce mercury into the system when the sto- [lach is too irritable to bear it; in syphilis, •epatic afiections, hydrocephalus, &c. For his purpose, to 1 dr. is commonly rubbed ito the inside of one of the thighs until every article of the ointment disappears. This ope- ation is repeated night and morning, lantil jhe desired effect is produced, and should be, possible, performed by the patient himself, jhiring its administration the patient should I void exposure to cold, and the use of fer- jaented or acidulous liquors, and his diet should lonsist chiefly of toast, broth, gruel, milk-and- ji'ater, and other inoflensive matters. This intment has been employed to prevent the \pitting’ in smallpox; and, diluted with 3 or i times its weight of lard, in several skin dls- ases, as a dressing for ulcers, to destroy pedi- uli, &c. Camphor is often added to this oint- nent, to increase its activity. With the addi- ion of a little extract of belladonna, or hydro- f :hlorate of ammonia, it forms an excellent ano- l lyne and resolvent friction in painful syphi- f itic tumours and glandular enlargements. >1 Obs. The preparation of mercurial ointment iccording to the common plan is a process of nuch labour and difficulty, and usually occu- Dies several days. The insti’uctions in the Pharmacopoeias are very meagre and unsatis- hctory, and, so far as details go, are seldom precisely carried out. Employers grumble, ind operatives become impatient, when they md the most assiduous trituration apparently hils to hasten the extinction of the globules. To facilitate matters, various tricks are re- l^orted to, and various contraband additions ire often clandestinely made. Among the ar- jicles referred to, sulphur and turpentine are those which have b^eh longest known, and, perhaps, most frequently employed for the purpose; but the first spoils the colour, and die other the consistence, of the ointment; whilst both impart to it more or less of their leculiar and respective odours. On the Con- :inent, oil of eggs was formerly very generally jsed for the purpose, and is even now occa- uonally so employed. Nearly half a century ago, Mr. W. Cooley clearly showed that the difficulty might be satisfactorily overcome by simply triturating the quicksilver with | to i of its weight of old mercurial ointment, before adding the lard; and that the effective power of this substance was in direct proportion to its age, or the length of time it had been exposed to the air. His plan was to employ the ‘bot- toms’ and ‘ scrapings’ of the store pots for the purpose. At a later period (1814-5), Mr. Hig- ginbottom, of Northampton, repeated this re- commendation, and at length the plan has been imported into the Pharmacopoeia Borus- sica. About twenty years since, “we re- opened an investigation of the subject, which extended over several months, during which we satisfied ourselves of the accuracy of the assertion of M. Roux, that the mercury in mercurial ointment exists entirely, or nearly so, in the metallic state, and not in the form of oxide, as was generally assumed. We suc- ceeded in preparing an excellent sample of mercurial ointment by agitating washed suet and quicksilver together in vacuo. The quan- tity of oxide present at any time in this oint- ment is variable and accidental, and is largest in that which has been long prepared; but in no case is it sufficient to materially discolour the fat after the metallic mercury is separated from it. We were led to conclude that the property alluded to, possessed by old ointment, depends solely on the pecuHar degree of con- sistence or viscidity of the fat present in it, and on the loss of much of the thoroughly greasy, ‘ anti-attritive’ character, possessed by the latter in a recent state. In practically working out this idea, we obtained pure fats (MAaNETIC ADEPS; SEVUM PE^PAEATUM), which, without any addition, were capable of reducing, in a few minutes, 8, 16, 32, and even 48 times their weight of mercury. We also found that the formula of the Pharmacopoeia might be adopted, and that a perfect ointment might be readily obtained by skilful manage- ment in from \ an hour to an hour, even with- out these resources. All that was necessary was to employ a very gentle degree of heat, by either performing the operation in a warm apartment or by allowing the mortar to re- main filled with warm water for a short time before using it. Suet or lard, reduced either by gentle warmth or by the addition of a little almond oil to the consistence of a thick cream, so that it will hang to the pestle without run- ning from it, will readily extinguish 7 or 8 times its weight of running mercury by simple trituration. The exact temperature must, however, be hit upon, or the operation fails. This fact was afterwards noticed in the ‘ Ann. de Chim.,’ and some other journals.” (A. J. Cooley.) M. Pomonti has proposed a method of pre- paring strong mercurial ointment, which, modi- fied to suit the English operator, is as fol- lows :—Fresh lard, 8 parts; solution of nitre (see beloiv), 1 part; mix by trituration, add of mercury, S2 parts, and again triturate. The globules disappear after a few turns of the pestle, but reappear in a few minutes, and then again disappear to return no more. When this happens, the trituration is to be continued for a few minutes longer, when lard, 24 parts, is to be rubbed in, and the ointment at once put into pots. It is said that the globules are so completely extinguished as to escape detec- tion, even when the ointment is examined by a microscope of low power. The Solution.— Nitre, 100 gr.; water, 1 fl. oz.; dissolve. This quantity is sufficient for a kilogramme of mercury. See OINTMENT OP OxiDE OP MeE- CUEY. 2. (Mildee meecxteial ointment, Miideb