QUININE. 1156 “These reactions are restricted to this alka- loid,” (Dr. Garrod.) Quinine is disthiguished from both cincho- isriNE and quinidine by its comparatively free solubility in ether; the last of these being very sparingly sohible, and the other wholly insoluble, in that menstruum. The presence of cinchonine may also be positively determined by reference to the behaviour of that alka- loid, noticed at page 453. Quinidine is also distinguished from quinine by the different crystallization, greater specific gravity, and freer solubility of its salts in cold water.^ Estim. See Quinometky. Uses, ^'c. Pure quinine is not used in medi- cine, but several of its salts are employed as remedies, on account of their great stimulant, tonic, and febrifuge powers. As a tonic in dyspeptic affections, and for restoring strength and vigour to morbidly weakened habits, and as an antiperiodic or agent to counteract febrile action, it appears to be superior to all other remedies, provided no abnormal irrita- bility of the mucous membranes, or of the circulatory organs, exists. The dose of the sails of quinine, as a tonic, is ^ to 1 gr., twice or thrice daily; as an antiperiodic, 2 to 5 gr., or even more, every second or third hour, during the intervals of the paroxysms of ague, and of other intermittent or periodic affections; also in acute rheumatism. The sulphate (‘ di- sulphate’) is the salt generally used; this and other salts are most effective when taken in solution. The sails of quinine may be made by simply saturating the dilute acids with the base, and gently evaporating the solutions for crystals, or to dryness. Prince Lucien Bonaparte recommends all these salts to be prepared by the addition of a strong alcoholic solution of quinine to a cold solution of the acid. We have tried this method with success. Ac'etate of Quinine. Sgn. Quin® acetas, L. Prep. 1. (P. Cod.) Mix quinine, 2 parts, with water, 3 parts; heat the mixture, and add of acetic acid, q. s. to dissolve the alkaloid, and to render the solution slightly acid; lastly, decant or filter the solution whilst boiling hot, and set it aside to crystallize. The mother-water, on evaporation, will yield a second crop of the acetate. 2. Effloresced sulphate of quinine, 17 parts, is dissolved in boiling v;ater, and mixed with crystallized acetate of soda, 6 parts. The acetate of quinine crystallizes. Prop., S{c. Satiny, acicular crystals, which are rather more soluble in water than those of the sulphate. Dose. ^ to 5 gr. Arse"niate of Quinine. Syn. Quinje ae- SENIAS, L. Prep. (Bourieres.) Arsenic acid, 1^ dr.; quinine, 5 dr.; distilled water, G fl. oz.; boil them together in a covered glass vessel until 1 An extremely elegniit and higlily sensitive method of testing for quinine and quinidine, by means of tlie micro- scope, &.C., is described at considerable length, by Dr. Ilerapath, in the '^Fharm. Jouru,” for November, 1853. the alkaloid is dissolved, then set the solutii aside to crystallize. Uses, ^c. Eecommended by Dr. Nelig and others, as being more powerfully ar periodic than the other preparations of quini Dose, to i gr., made into pills; in agi neuralgia, &c.; also in cancer. Ar'senite of Quinine. Syn. Quin^ arseji L. Prep. Sulphate of quinine, 100 parts,i dissolved in alcohol, GOO parts, and boiled w arsenious acid, 14 parts. The liquid is tl filtered. The poisonous salt is deposited the crystalline form as the liquid cools. Uses, 8fc. As the last Chlo'Tide of Quinine. Hydrochlorate ’ quinine (see below). Cit'rate of Quinine. Syn. Quin.e cite L. Prep. 1. By mixing a solution of,, phate of quinine with a like solution of cUj ' of soda. 2. From quinine and citric acid, as i acetate. Needle-shaped prisms. Dose, , As the sulphate or disulphate. Disul'phate of Quinine. Suljjhate of quh ■ (see below). Ferro-cit'rate of Quinine. Syn. Qujv; feeko-citeas, L. Quinio-citrate of iron j 2jage 798). Ferrocy'anide of Quinine. Syn. Cyax j OF IRON AND QUININE ; QUIN.E HYDEOFEE • CYANAS, QfINJE FEEEO-PEUSSIAS, L. P . (P. Cod.) Sulphate of quinine, 100 pa ; ferrocyanide of potassium, 31 parts; dish i water, 2500 parts; boil for a few minutes,!, when cold, separate the impure salt wl i floats as an oily mass on the surface, was t with a little cold water, and dissolve itr boiling alcohol; the solution will deposit c tals as it cools. Obs. This compound is by some said b ? the most efficacious of all the salts f quinia. Pelouze asserts that it is sin quinine mixed with some Prussian blue. L . 1 to 6 gr. Ferrosul'phate of Quinine. See Sulfe 3 OF Quinine and Iron {below). Hydri'odate of Quinine. Syn. Iodide t’ QUININE; QUIN.E HYDEIODAS, Q. lODIDUM • Prep. 1. By adding, drop by droj), a con< - trated solution of iodide of potassium to a e solution of acid sulphate of quinine, and drj? the precipitate in the -shade; or, heat e liquid nearly to the boiling-point, and allo't to crystallize. 2. (Parrish.) Effloresced sulphate of quit,', 5 parts, dissolved in alcohol, and decompc l by an alcoholic solution of 3 parts of iodide f potassium, irrecipitates sulphate of potassa, i yields, on cooling and evaporating, hydrioc e of quinine in fine crystalline needles. 3. (loDUEETTED—Bouchardat.) From b acid solution of quinia and a solution of iot 'S of iron containing a slight excess of iodint s No. 1. Obs. The above are reputed alteratb tonic, and antiperiodic. Dose. 1 to 4 gr.