862 LOZENOE. hard and brittle, due care being taken to pre- serve them from dust and dirt. To prevent the mass adhering to tlm fingers and utensils during the process of manufacture, a little finely powdered starch, or a very little olive oil, scented with the same aromatic as that con- tained in the lozenges, may be used. Mucilage of gum arabic or of gum tragacanth, thin isinglass size, or the strained white of egg, are the substances usually employed to make the pulverulent materials adhere together. A strained decoction of Irish moss is now fre- quently used for the same purpose, for ‘ in- ferior qualities.’ The larger the proportion of gum which enters into the composition of lozenges, the slower they dissolve in the mouth; hence powdered gum is frequently added to the other materials to increase their quality in this respect, as well as to give additional solidity to those which, like chalk, for instance, are of a peculiarly dry or crumbly nature. Starch and potato flour are often added to lozenge-masses in lieu of a portion of the sugar, and even p>laster of Paris is not unfrequently employed to give them weight; frauds v/liich are readily detected in the manner noticed under Gum and Sugae. Lozenges as a form of medicine are now so seldom ordered by the faculty in this country, and those of the confectioner are so much su- perior in appearance to the corresponding articles prepared by the English druggist, that the London and Dublin Colleges have wisely expunged them from their Pharmaco- poeias. On the Continent, however, this class of preparations is extensively employed. As a general rule, medicated lozenges should weigh from 8 to 10 gr. each, and a medium dose of their active ingredient should be distributed through the bulk of 6 to 8 of them, in which case 3 to 5 of them may be safely taken as a dose, or sucked during the lapse of 3 or 4 hours. This will be useful in the preparation of those for which no esta- blished proportions are given. In ‘sending out’ compounds of this class containing active medicaments, as morphia or opium, the retailer as well as the manufacturer’ should be careful that the quantity contained in each lozenge is 2)lainly marked on the label. In lozenges intended for mouth cosmetics, or to perfume the breath, ambergris is gene- rally regarded as the most appropriate per- fume; but hard smokers frequently prefer cloves and cinnamon, and some ladies give the preference to roses, orange flowers, and orris or violets. Lozenges are coloured with the same stains as are used for liqueurs and sweetmeats. Lozenges, as well as all other similar articles of confectionery, should be preserved in well- closed glass bottles, or jars, or in tin canisters, so as to be ])erfectly excluded from the air and damp. A list of the principal lozenges, both of the apothecary and the confectioner, is given below, together with formula) for many of them, which will serve as examples for others. Absor'bent Lozenges. Teockisci antacidi, L. Prep. 1. Take ot'pt'ecipitated chalk, \ lb.; gum arabic, 2 oz.; double refined white sugar, 14 oz.; all in impalpable powder; oil of nut- meg, ^ fl. dr.; pass the mixture through a fine sieve, beat it up with mucilage, q. s., roll the mass into a thin sheet, and cut it into lo- zenges ; lastly, dry these by exposing them on a sheet of white paper to the air, out of con- tact with dust. 2. As the last, but substituting heavy car- bonate of magnesia, 1^ oz., for an equal weight of chalk. In diarrhoea, heartburn, acidity, &c. See Chalk Lozenges, Magnesia L., SodaL., &c. Aca'cia Lozenges. See Gum Lozenges. Acid'ulated Lozenges. Syn. Acidulated LEMON LOZENGES, TaETAEIC ACID L.; TeO- CHISCI ACIDI TAETAEICI (Ph. E.), L. Prep. From tartaric acid, 2 dr.; oil of lemon, 10 drops; white sugar, 8 oz.; mucilage, q. s. to make a lozenge-mass. The same ingredients mixed wuth heat form acidulated or acid DEOPS. Both are useful in coughs, hoarseness, sore throats, &c. See Cayenne Lozenges, CiTEic Acid L., Bose L., &c. Al'kaline Lozenges. See Soda Lozenges, Vichy L., &c. Al'um Lozenges. Syn. Teochisci aluminis, L. Each lozenge contains 1^ gr. of alum. As an astringent. See Asteingent Lozenges. An'iseed Lozenges. Syn. Teochisci anisi, L. Prep. From oil of aniseed, 1^ fi. dr.; finest white sugar, 1 lb.; mucilage, q. s. Carminative and stomachic. In colic, griping, &c.; and as a pectoral. Anthelmin'tic Lozenges. See Woem Loz- enges. Antimo"nial Lozenges. Syn. Teochisci an- TIMONIALES, MOESULI STIBII KuNKELII, L. ; Tablettes de Kunkel, Fr. Prep. (P. Cod.) Levigated sulphuret of antimony and cardamom seeds, of each, 1 oz.; almonds (blanched), 2oz.; cinnamon, ^ oz.; sugar, 13 oz.; mucilage of tragacanth, q. s.; to be divided into 15-gr. lozenges. As an alterative. Ape'Tient Lozenges. Syn. Teochisci ape- EiENTES, L. Each lozenge contains 1 gr. each of calomel and scammony, and 2 gr. of jalap; or, instead of the last, \ gr. of jalapine. 2 to 3 for a dose. Astrin'gent Lozenges. Syn. Teochisci a- STEINGENTES, L. Each lozenge contains U gr. of alum and 2 gr. of catechu. In spitting of blood, relaxed uvula, sore throat, &c. See Alum Lozenges. Bark Lozenges. Syn. Teochisci cincho- N.E, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) Cinchona, 2 oz.; cin- namon, 2 dr.; ivhite sugar, 14 oz.; mucilage of gum tragamnth, q. s.; mix, and divide into 16-gr. lozenges. Tonic. Bath Lozenges. Syn. Dawson’s lozenges. From extract of liquorice and gum arabic, of each, oz.; sugar, 17 oz. It is both rolled