657 FLOWERS. 1 evaporation, lias arisen the almost universal I practice of placing flowers in water; hut their I mutilated stems possess a far inferior power of j sucking up fluids to that of the roots, and thus I their decay is only deferred for a time. To t preserve them more effectually, or at least to 1 render their existence less ephemeral, we may surround them with a moist atmosphere, by I which the loss of water from the surface of I their leaves will be reduced to the smallest j possible amount. “ It is now eighteen years ! ago since we first saw, in the drawing-room of , a gentleman, in the hot dry weather of the I dog-days, flowers preserved day after day in I all their freshness by the following simjile con- I trivance:—A flat dish of porcelain had water I poured into it. In the water a vase of flowers was set; over the whole a bell-glass was placed, with its rim in the water. This was a ‘ Ward^s case’ in princijjle, although different in its con- j struction. The air that surrounded the flowers 1 being confined beneath the bell-glass, was kept constantly moist with the water that rose into it in the form of vapour. As fast as the water was condensed it ran down the sides of the ' bell-glass back into the dish; and if means had been taken to inclose the water on the outside of the bell-glass, so as to prevent its evaporating into the air of the sitting-room, the atmosphere around the flowers would have remained continually damp. We recommend those who love to see plenty of fresh flowers in their stting-rooms in dry weather to adopt this method. Tiie experiment can be tried % inverting a tumbler over a rose-bud in a saucer of water.” (‘Gardener’s Chron.’) Another method by which some flowers may be preserved for many months, is to carefully (dip them, as soon as gathered, in perfectly i limpid yum water, and after allowing them to (drain for 2 or 3 minutes, to set them up- right, or arrange them in the usual manner in an empty vase. The gum gradually forms a transparent coating on the surface of the I petals and stems, and preserves their figure and colour long after they have become dry and crisp. Faded flowers may be generally more or less restored by immersing them halLway up their stems in very hot water, and allowing them to remain in it until it cools, or they have recov- ered. The ‘ coddled’ portion of the stems must then be cut off, and the flowers placed in clean cold water. In this way a great number of faded flowers may be restored, but there are some of the more fugacious kinds, on which it iproves Tiseless. j Flowers may be produced in winter by taking up the plants, trees, or shrubs, in the spring, at the time when they are about to bud, with some of their owm soil carefully preserved around the roots, and placing them upright in a cellar till Michaelmas; when, with the addi- Ition of fresh earth, they arc to be put into proper tubs or vessels, and placed in a stove or jhot-house, w'heu they must be treated in the usual manner. Ry this method, in the month of February, fruits or roses w^ill appear. Flowers sown in pots about Mictiaelrnas, may thus be made to bloom at Christmas. The apparently instantaneous flowering of plants, exhibited a few years ago by M. Her- bert to an astonished audience, was, we be- lieve, effected by the heat generated by frag- ments of quicklime concealed in the mould close to, but not in immediate contact with, the roots. The plants selected by M. Herbert— a group of geraniums and a rose tree—were planted in two rather deep boxes of garden mould, and were covered with glass shades. The operator commenced by pouring over the roots, from a small watering-pot, a liquid which, uniting to the ingredients already in the earth, caused a great heat, as was shown by an intense steam or vapour, which was evolved within the shades, and allowed, to some extent, to escape through a small hole in the top, w'hich at first w^as kept closed. The effect upon the geraniums was certainly almost instantaneous : the buds beginning to burst in about five or six minutes, and the plants being in full bloom wdthin ten minutes, when the blossoms were gathered by M. Herbert, and distributed amongst the ladles present. With the rose tree the exhibitor was less fortunate. The invention may prove^ useful where ladies require to decorate their drawing-rooms or boudoirs with the beauties of the floral world somewhat earlier in the season than they can otherwise be obtained. It must not, however, be forgotten that the plants are, as it were, parboiled during the lorocess, and die after a few days. The collection and preservation of flowers for medicinal purposes and distillation, will be found noticed under VEGfETABLE Sub- stances. Artificial Flowers. The beauty and value of these pleasing articles of personal decoration mainly depend upon the taste and ingenuity of the maker. The delicate fingers of woman, and her ready powers of imitation and inven- tion, combined with her natural affection for the chaste and beautiful, have enabled her the more especially to excel in this manufacture. The productions of the female artificial florists of the French capital are justly admired every- where. The French employ velvet, kid, and flne cambric for the petals, and taffeta for the leaves. Yery recently thm plates of bleached whalebone have been used with great success for some portions of artificial flowers. As colours and stains, the following are em- ployed in Paris: — Rlue. Indigo dissolved in oil of vitriol, and the acid partly neutralized with salt of tartar or whiling. Gbeen. a solution of distilled verdigris. Lilac. Liquid archil. Red. Carmine dissolved in a solution of salt of tartar, or in spirits of hartshorn. 43