585 ESSENCE. jtlms prepared. Las been largely used, both at ! court and by the nobility generally. I 2. Patchouli, 3 oz.; rectified spirit, 1 pint; I digest a week, press, and filter. A still com- |inoner kind is made vf’iih. proof spirit. \ Essence of Pear. See Essence of Jar- gonelle. ' Essence of Pen'nyroyal. Essentia ptj- LEGII, E. MENTHiE p., L. Prep. From penny- royal {Mentha pulegium), as Essence of Pep- PERMINT. Stimulant, carminative, and em- iinenagogue. Used in dispensing, especially to I make extemporaneouswater. j Essence of Pep'permint. Syn. Essentia I MENTII.E PIPERITAJ, L. Prep. 1. Oil ofpep- \permint (Mitcham, recent), 1 fl. oz. ; rectified \ spirit, 1 pint; agitate together until mixed. White. i 2 To the last add of herb peppermint, pars- I ley leaves, or spinach leaves (preferably one of I the first two), ^ oz., and digest for a week, or ' until sufiiciently coloured. Sap green (10 or 12 gr., rubbed up with a teaspoonful of hot water) is also used for the same purpose. A delicate light green. 3. (Ph. tJ. S.) Oil of peppermint, 2ifl. oz.; rectified spirit, 16^. oz. Ohs. Essence of peppermint is not con- ceived to be good by the ignorant, unless it has a pale-greenish tint, which they take as a proof of its being genuine. The most harm- I less way of tinging it is that indicated above. I A little green mint or parsley will, indeed, be j found to improve the flavour. These additions , are quite harmless. The practice of using I cupreous salts, adopted by some lazy and un- I principled makers, is unpardonable, and admits I of no excuse, even a lame one, as not the least I advantage, either of convenience, cost, or ap- ! pearance, results from such a practice, while pthe colouring matter, though small in quan- tity, is nevertheless sufficient to impart a noxious quality to the liquid. This fraud may be detected by the addition of liquor of ammonia in excess, which will strike a bluish or greenish-blue colour when copper is pre- sent. I Essence of peppermint (like that of most of ' the other aromatic oils) is cordial, stimulant, and stomachic. A few drops (10 to 30) on I sugar or mixed with a little water or wine, is j an excellent remedy in flatulence, colic, nausea, I sickness, &c. It is also extensively used as a I flavouring ingredient by cooks, confectioners, j and druggists. A few drops, well agitated j with half a pint of cold water, form an excel- I lent extemporaneous peppermint water. ; The formulae 1 and 2, generally the latter, ' .are those employed by the respectable portion I of tlie London trade. The various published I receipts for this and similar essences, ordering I the essential oil in a larger proportion than I that directed above, are never adopted in prac- ! tice, and their pi’oducts (often impossible com- bin.ations) exist only in the imaginations of I the writers. Essence of Pimen'to. See Essence of All. SPICE. Essence of Pine-apple. From pine-apple oil (butyric ether, butyrate of oxide of ethyle), as Essence of Almonds. It forms a delicious flavouring for liqueurs, confectionery, rum, &c. See Ether and Oil (Volatile). Essence of Quas'sia. Sign. Essentia qitas. SiiE, L. Prep. 1. From quassia (sliced), 1^ oz. ; proof spirit, 1 pint; digest 10 days, and filter. ^ fl. dr. added to 7^ fl. dr. of water, forms the infusion of quassia of the Ph. L. Dose. \ dr., in water or wine, an hour before a meal, as a stomachic tonic, in dyspepsia, loss of appetite, &c., particularly when complicated with gout; 1 to 2 dr. three or four times daily, as a febrifuge and antiseptic, in inter mi ttents, putrid fevers, &c. 2. (Brewer’s.)—a. From powdered quassia (sprinkled with a little rum) and ‘\foots” (coarse moist sugar or sugar bottoms), equal parts, reduced to the consistence of a semi- fluid extract by the addition of a few spoon- fuls of water. For ale. b. From powdered quassia, 1 part; burnt sugar colouring, 2 parts; well stirred together. For porter and stout. Both are used by fraudulent brewers as substitutes for hops. Essence of Quin'ine. Syn. Essentia quin^, L. Prep. From disulphate of quinine, \\oz.; rectified spirit, ^ pint; digest with warmth, gradually dropping in a little dilute sulphuric acid (avoiding excess), and employing constant agitation), until the whole is dissolved. 1 fl. dr., added to 7 fl. dr. ofproof spirit, forms the ‘tinc- ture OF quinine’ (Ph. L.). Every fl. dr. con- tains 8gr. of disulphate of quinine, or about 10 gr. of the neutral sulphate. If more sulphuric acid is added than is sufficient to dissolve the salt (i. e. convert it into a neutral sulphate), the solution is apt to deposit part of it on keeping, owing to the gradual formation of ether, by the action of the excess of acid on the alcohol. Essence of Rat'afia. The same as Essence of Almonds. So called from being used to flavour ratafias, noyeau, and other liqueurs. Essence of Rhu'barb. Syn. Essentia rhei, L. Prep. From rhubarb (in powder) and sili- ceous sand, of each, 5 oz.; proof spirit, 1 pint; by the method of displacement. Every fl.. oz. re- presents the active virtues of 2 dr. of rhubarb. Essence of Rondele'tia. Prep. 1. Essence (oil) of bergamotte, essence (oil) of lemon, and oil of cloves, of each, 1 dr.; otto of roses, 10 drops; rectified spirit, 1 pint. 2. To the last add, of oil of lavender, 1 dr.; neroli, 15 drops. A very flishionable and agreeable perfume. Essence of Ro'ses. Syn. Essentia ros.e (odorata), L. Prep.l. Altar of roses(genmne), 2 dr.; alcohol, 1 pint; agitate frequently until they unite. 2. Attar of roses, 1 oz.; rectified spirit, 1 gall.; mix in a close vessel, and assist the solu- tion by placing it in a bath of hot water.