AMMONIA. 137 * pointed ont the difference between ammonia land its carbonate (a.d. 1756); and may there* I fore be regarded as the discoverer of pure am- jmonia; but to Dr. Priestley is generally given [the honour of having first obtained it in the j gaseous form (a.d. 1790). At the present [(lay, tlie ammonia of commerce is chiefly pre- I pared from the ammoniacal liquor of the ga^- morl'S and the manufactories of ivory black, \^animal charcoal, Ac. In these places a large I cpiantity of crude ammoniacal liquor is produced; ito which either sulphuric ov hydrochloric acid added, by which it is converted into a salt, which may be obtained nearly pure by evapo- ration, and one or more crystallisations, and, jin the case of the hydrochlorate and carbonate, {subsequent sublimation. Other sources and processes have been sought out and occasion- ally adopted for the preparation of the prin- cipal salts of ammonia (its sulphate, carbonate, land hydrochlorate); some of which have been patented, but few of them have got into ge- neral use, or have been carried out on the large scale. Por many years the manufacture, and the theoretical constitution of ammonia and its componnds, have incessantly engaged the attention of European chemists. Nat. hist. Ammonia, in a state of combina- tion, is found, in variable (quantities, among the saline product of volcanoes, in sea and rain water, in bituminous coal, in urine, in guano, and in the atmosphere, especially that of large towns. The minute stellated crystals some- times found on dirty windows in London, and other poi)ulous cities, consist of sulphate of ammonia. (Brande; Fownes; Letheby.) In the free state it exists in the juices of some l>lants, and in the living blood of animals, and it is freely developed during the decomposition of azotised vegetable substances, and during the putrefaction of animal matter. Prep. A mixture oifresh hydrate of /me with an equal weight of sal ammnoiac (both dry and in fine powder), is introduced into a glass flask or retort, the beak of which communicates with one end of a U-shaped tube filled with small fragments of recently burnt quicklime, and from which extends another glass tube, about 18 inches long, having its further end bent uj> ready to be qflaced under a gas-jar, on the shelf of a mercurial qmeumatic trough. (See engr.) The joints being all made air-tight by collars of India-rubber, heat is ajqflied by means of a spirit-lamj), and as soon as the air contained in the apparatus is expelled, the gas is collected for use. It cannot be dried by means of chlo* ride of calcium. Powdered quicklime may be substituted for the ‘ hydrate ’ in the above process; in which case the evolved gas is anhydrous, but a much greater heat is then required for its liberation. Ratio. The hydrochloric acid, or its elements, quitting their previous combination, unite themselves to those of the lime, forming chlo- ride of calcium and v/ater, whilst the am- monia, set free, escapes in the form of gas. The precise nature of these transmutations is ctill a matter of dispute. Comp. Ammonia is a compound of 3 volumes of hydrogen, and 1 vol. of nitrogen, condensed into 2 volumes; and weight of— Per cent. Nitrogen Hydrogen . Atoms. . 1 . . 3 . Eq. wt. 14 . 3 . Berthollet. . 81*13 . . 18*87 . Brande. . 82*35 . . 17*65 . Ure. . 82*53 . • 17*47 . Tlieory. . 82*35 . 17*65 Ammonia . 1 . 17 . . 100* . 100* . 100* . 100* Proi). Gaseous, colourless, invisible; highly pungent, acrid, irritating, and alkaline; irre- r;])irable, unless very largely diluted with air ; extinguishes combustion; burns slowly in oxy- gen ; sp. gr. 0’589; 100 cub. inches weigh 18*26 gr. Under a pressure of 6*5 atmo- spheres, at 50° Fahr., it forms a transparent, colourless liquid of the sp. gr. 0*731; at 60° l*’ahr. this liquid expanded into 1009 times its volume of ammoniacal gas; at —40° Fahr., and the ordinary atmospheric pressure, it 1‘onns a subtile colourless liquid, which at —103° Fahr. freezes into a u hite, translucent, crystalline substance. (Faraday.) It is highly basic; all its salts are either volatilised or decomposed at, or under, a red heat—those with a rohtile acid sublime unchanged—those with a fixed acid lose their ammonia. It is decomqiosed into its elements bj” transmission through a red-hot tube; and when in contact wdth metallic oxides or spongy platinum, at the same temperature, the newly evolved hydro- gen unites with the oxygen of the oxide or of the atmosq3here, forming w'ater. Water at 50° Fahr. absorbs 670 times its volume of this gas,* and the solution has the sp. gr. 0*875. (Sir H. Davy.) Water condenses easily about ^rd its weight, or 460 times its bulk. (Ure.) Its con- centrated aqueous solution boils at 130°, and freezes at — 40° Fahr. Tests, 8(c. Ammonia is recognised by—1. Its pungent odour :—2. By turning vegetable blues green, and vegetable yellows brown ; but i vols.—Dr. Thomson.