496 CUSTARD—CYANIC ACID. CUS'TARD. A composition of or cream, and eggs, sweetened with sugar, and variously flavoured. Custards may be cooked either in the oven or stew-pan. Prep. 1. (Soyer.) Milk (boiling), 1 pint; sugar, 2 oz. ; thin yellow peel of half a lemon ; mix, and set it aside for a short time; then take eggs, 4 in no., beat them well in a basin ; add, gradually, the milk (not too hot), pass the mixture through a colander or sieve, and fill the custard cups with it; these are then to be placed over the fire in a stew-pan, con- taining about one inch of hot water, and left there for 12 minutes, or till sufficiently set. The above is for plain custaeds; but it forms a good basis to receive any of the usual flavouring ingredients, o.?, fresh or stewed fruit, peels, essences, orange-flour-waler, brandy or other spirits, &c. 2. (Rundell.) As the last, but using cream instead of milk, or equal parts of the two, with two additional eggs. Very rich; like the last, any suitable flavouring matter may be added to it. 3. (Almond Custaeds,—Rundell.) As either of the above, adding blanched sweet almonds, 4 oz.; bitter do., 6 in no.; beaten to a smooth paste. 4. (Baked Custaeds,—Rundell.) From cream, 1 pint, with 4 eggs ; flavour with mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon, and add a little white wine, rose-water, and sugar; bake in cups. 5. (Coffee CIustaeds,—Soyer.) Hot milk and strong-made coffee, of each, ^ pint; sugar, 2 oz.; dissolve, and add it, gradually, to 4 eggs (well beaten), and proceed as in No. 1. Chocolate custards and cocoa custards are made in the same way. 6. (Cold Custaed, for invalids,—Dewees.) 1 egg; sugar, a tablespoonful; beat well to- gether ; and add, gradually, constantly stirring, cold water, ^ pint; rose-water, 2 teaspoonfuls; and a little grated nutmeg. An agreeable and nutricious demulcent. A wine-glassful every 2 or 3 hours, or ad libitum. 7. (Lemon Custaeds,—Rundell.)—a. As No. 1 (nearly), using a little more lemon peel. In the same way orange custards are made, but using orange peel. b. From candied lemon peel and lump sugar, of each, 2 oz., beaten in a mortar quite tine, and added to either No. 1 or No. 2. Orange and citron custards may be made in the same manner. A little or any e-flower-water, or mar- sala, or sherry, may be also added at pleasure. They are best baked. 8. (Oeange Custaeds.) As above. No. 7, a and b. 9. (Rice Custaeds,—Rundell.) Boil i a cupful of the best ground rice in a pint of milk until dissolved, then mix it with a quart of cream ; flavour with nutmeg, mace, and a little brandy, and put it into cup, or a dish. CUTCH. See Catechu. CUTTLE-FISH. The bone of the Sepia officinalis of Linnseus, or common cuttle-fish (cuttle-fish bone ; os se'pi.e), is used by the law-stationers to erase ink-marks from paper and parchment, an application familiar ? to most schoolboys of the present generation. |i Reduced to powder (pul'vis se'pi.e), it forms j a valuable dentifrice and polishing powder, and \ is used for forming the moulds for small silver i castings. j CUTS. These are incised wounds of greater \ or less extent, and must be treated accordingly, i The divided parts should be drawn close to- i gether, and held so with small pieces of strap- \ ping or adhesive plaster stretched across the j wound. If the part is covered with blood, it j should be first wiped with a damp sponge. When the wound is large, and it is much ex- j posed, a good method is to sew the parts up. i The application of a little creasote or a spirit- uous solution of creasote, will generally stop i local bleeding, provided it is applied to the | clean extremities of the wounded vessels. A good way is to place a piece of lint, moistened i with creasote, on the wound, previously wiped | clean, or to pour a drop or two of that liquid : on it. An excellent method is to cover the i part with a film of collodion. Friar's balsam, i quick-drying copal varnish, tincture of galls, \ copperas water, black ink, &c., are popular remedies applied in the same way. A bit of the fur plucked from a black beaver hat is an excellent remedy to stop the bleeding from a cut produced by the razor in shaving. A cob- web is said to possess the same property. CYAM'ELIDE. See Cvanic Acid. CY'ANATE. Syn. Ct'anas, L. A compound formed by the union of cyanic acid with a base. The cyanates are distinguished by evolving the odour of cyanic acid, accom- panied by effervescence, when treated with the dilute mineral acids, and by this solution, ’ mixed with hydrate of lime, evolving ammonia, j The alkaline cyanates are soluble; the others, insoluble. See the respective bases. CYANE"THINE. An organic alkali, formed along with cyanide of potassium, by the mutual action of potassium and cyanide of ethyle. CYANHY''DRIC ACID. See Hydeo-cyanic j Acid. i CYANIC ACID. Syn. Acidum cyan'icum, I L. A compound of cyanogen and oxygen, | discovered by Wohler. It is only known in the hydrated state. I Prep. 1. Cyanuric acid, deprived of its water of crystallization, is distilled in a retort, and the product collected in a well-cooled receiver. 2. (Liebig.) A current of sulphuretted hydrogen gas is passed through water in which cyanate of silver is diffused, the process being suspended before all the cyanate of silver is decomposed. Prop., &fc. Cyanic acid is a limpid, colour- less liquid; it reddens litmus; is sour to the taste; possesses a modified sulphurous odour, similar to that which is always perceived when