1137 POWDERS. I j chipre or Cyprus, 3 lb. ; vanilla, powdered j means of sugar, 2 dr.; oil of cloves and \ence of ambergris, of each, 20 drops. \n. (POIJDEE A LA VIOLETTE.) See ViOLET liWDER {above). The above are used as cosmetic powders for \^ skin and hair; also, but less frequently, [ SACHETS, DEAWEES, &C. |2. Sachet powdee.—a. From orris root, 02. ; cassia, 1^ oz. ; cloves, loz.; yellow . xdal wood, \ oz. ; oils of lavender and berga- i^, of each, 1 dr.; otto of roses, 20 drops; \;.sk and ambergris, of each, rubbed with a pie sugar, 6 gr.; reduce the dry ingredients coarse powder, mix them, and add the oils. \b. From corianders, orris root, rose leaves, ;|i calamus aromaticus, of each, 4 oz.; la- dder flowers, 8 oz.; rhodium wood, 1 dr.; \\sk, 20 gr. From corianders, orris, calamus aroma- and red roses (dried), of each, 1 oz.; tsender flowers, 2 oz.; mace and cloves, of •Ih, 1 dr.; essential oil of almonds, 10 drops. i. As last, hut substituting musk, 5 gr., for 1! oil of almonds. ?. From patchouli, 8 oz. ; lavender flowers, (jhtly dried), 3 oz.; orris root, 2 oz.; cloves, .2.; essence of bergamot, 1 dr.; essences of i\hergris and musk, of each, ^ dr. irhese are used, along with cotton wool, to 1 scent bags, cassolettes, &c.; and as fpNT POWDEES for boxes, drawers, and the lie. The scent is added to the dry ingre- (nts, separately reduced to powder, and the ' ole is then passed through a fine sieve, to t ure perfect admixture. 3. Paefum poue les autees potjdees. ijmpoudre d’ambrette, 12 lb. ; civette, 1| oz.; ils^, 1 dr.; reduce the last two to powder by ijuding them with some dry lump sugar, then :is the whole together and pass it through a »[re. Used to perfume haie powdee, sa- '|ETS, &C. jSeidlitz Powders. Syn. Phlveees effee- IscENTES APEEIENTES, L. Prep. 1. Potas- ^tartrate of soda (Rochelle salt), 2 dr.; i\arbonate of soda, 40 gr.; mix, and put it in 'flue paper; tartaric acid, 35 gr., to be put ja white paper. For about ^ pint of water, jxative. 1. {In one bottle.) From potassio-tartrate ' soda, 12 oz.; bicarbonate of do., 4 oz.; taric acid, 3^ oz.; white sugar, 1 lb. ; (all in : e powder;) dry each separately by a gentle it, add of essence of lemon, ^ dr., mix well, ; i3 the mixture through a sieve, and put it ' once into clean dry bottles. Dose. A des- I t-spoonful, or more, to a tumblerful of ter. Obs. The above mixtures, though now uni- 'sally sold as Seidlitz powder, do not, when solved, exactly resemble the natural water, ;iieh contains carbonates, sulphates, and 'iorides of calcium and magnesium. How- ■j'r, the factitious article is equally effective, 1-1 much more agreeable. Sher'het Powders. These are made of the same materials as lemonade powders, the fla- vouring ingredient being varied to suit the particidar case. So'da-water Powders. Syn. Effeevescing POWDEES, E. SALINE P., SODAIC P., AeEATED SODA P.; PULYEEES EFFEEVESCENTES, L. Prep. 1. From bicarbonate of soda, 30 gr., in each blue papee; tartaric acid, 25 gr. (or citric acid, 24 gr.), in each white papee. One of each is dissolved separately in about 1 a glassful of water, and the two solutions mixed, and drank immediately. A cooling, wholesome summer beverage, but it should not be indulged in to excess. 2. (Chalybeated.) By adding 1 gr. of dried protosulphate of iron to each paper of acid. Tonic. 3. (Midgeley’s.) Made by adding | gr. of tartarized antimony to each paper of acid. Refrigerant and diaphoretic.1 For the Ph. formulae see Effeevescing Powdees {above). Soup Powders. See Cueey Powdee, Pease P., Spice, &c. Spruce Beer Powders. Syn. Pulveees ef- FEEVESCENTES CUM ABIETE, L. Prep. As ginger-beer powders, but substituting essence of spruce, 3 to 6 drops, for the powdered ginger. Tooth Powders. Syn. Pulvis dentifeicii, L. The general principles which should be kept in view in the selection of the materials, and in the preparation of dentifeices, have been already fully noticed (see page 514), and need not, therefore, be repeated here. Care must be taken that all the dry ingredients be flnely pulverized, and that the harder and gritty ones be reduced to the state of an impalpable powder, either by levigation or elutriation. The mixture of the ingredients must also be complete. This is the most readily effected by stirring them well together until they form an apparently homogeneous powder, and then passing this powder through a very fine sieve. Those which contain volatile substances should he preserved in closely corked wide-mouth bottles, and those which contain acidulous or gritty matter should not be frequently em- ployed. The selection of the tooth brush like- wise deserves attention. It should be sufii- ciently stiff to effect its purpose completely; hut, at the same time, it should be so formed as not to cause irritation or injury to the gums during its use. Prep. 1. Cuttle-fish bone and prepared chalk, of each, 2 oz.; oil of cloves, 20 drops. This may he perfumed at will, and medicated by any of the substances referred to under Den- tifeices. 2. To the last add of powdered Castile soap, 2 02. 3. Prepared chalk, 12 oz.; cuttle-fish bone, 8 oz.; orris root, 4 oz.; dragon’s blood, li oz.; oils of cloves and cassia, of each, i dr. 4. Prepared chalk, 1 lb.; pumice-stone, in 72