12 ACETIC ACID. peptic patients. It has been found in some mineral waters (Gmelin); as also has acetate of potassa (Geiger). In the vinegars of com- merce, it exists in combination with mucilage, sugar, colouring matter, vegetable extractive, and much water. Var. Commercial acetic acid is found under the form of the pure acid of the chemist and pharmaceutist {glacial and dilute), and of vine- gar, of which there are several varieties, which are noticed under their respective heads. Sources, Fermented liquors; the vinegars of commerce; alcoholic liquors; wood, from which it is obtained, as pyroligneous acid, by distillation; the commercial acetates of soda, potassa, lime, lead, copper, &c. The pure ACETIC ACID of the chemist and of commerce, is almost wholly obtained from the acetates, either ly the action of a strong acid, which seizes on the base, setting the acid free; or, by dry distillation, in which the high degree of heat employed separates the acetic acid from the base in the form of vapour. It is also obtained by the oxygenation of alcohol. Prep). The following are the principal pro- cesses at present adopted to obtain pure acetic acid :— I. From the Acetates in the moist way :— a. From acetate op soda :— 1. Commercial acetate of soda (i. e., the ‘ pure acetate ’ of the pyroligneous acid works), in crystals, is put into the body of a stout copper still, and a deep cavity being made in the centre of the mass, about 35^ of sulphuric acid of a sp. gr. of not less than 1’84 is poured in; the walls of the cavity are then thrown in upon the acid, and the whole briskly agitated, for a very short time, with a large wooden spatula; the head of tlie still is next luted on, and the distillation conducted at a gentle heat, the receiver being changed as soon as the distillate begins to acquire a slight empyreumatic odour. The product, when the process is well managed, is an almost colourless acid of the sp. gr. of fully 1‘05, con- taining about 40^- of glacial acid, or between 34^ and 35^ of anhydrous acid. Any trace of colour or empyreuma is removed by agitation with some well-washed and recently ignited vegetable charcoal, or with a very small quan- tity of recently ignited purified animal char- coal, and subsequently passing it through a prepared calico bag-ftlter; or by allowing it to stand, for about a fortnight, in barrels containing some beech-wood chips; after which it is ready for sale, either as the ordi- nary ACETIC ACID or pure pyroligneous ACID of commerce, or (on dilution, &c.) as vinegar. 2. The acid of sp. gr. 1'05 (obtained as above) is distilled with fused chloride of calcium, the distillate being run into a refrigerator; the crystals that form are drained at a tem- perature below 40° or 45° Fahr., and after re- moval to a warmer temperature, where they liquefy, and agitation with a little peroxide of lead, are submitted to a second distillation, as before; and this is repeated until the whole of the acid crystallises at 51° Fahr. The pro- duct is the GLACIAL ACETIC ACID of Commerce. Obs. The above are the processes usually adopted, on the large scale, in this country. 3. (M. Mollerat’s process—without distilla- tion.) Pure commercial acetate of soda, in coarse powder, is placed in a hard glazed stoneware or glass pan or receiver set in a cool situation, and 35^ or 36^ of concentrated sulphuric acid, of the sp. gr. 1-843, added, in such a manner that the acid may flow under the powder, and little heat be generated by the operation; the whole is then allowed to remain in contact (covered) for some hours, when crystalline grains of sulphate of soda are found covering the bottom and sides of the vessel, and hydrated acetic acid, partly liquid and partly in crystals, the upper portion. The temperature being now slightly raised to a jioint just sufficient to cause the liquefaction of the crystals of acetic acid {i. e., to from 62° to 65° Fahr.), the fluid is poured off, and a very small quantity of pure acetate of lime added to it gradually, until it ceases to yield any trace of ‘free sulphuric acid’ on evaporation. After sufficient repose it is care- fully decanted for use. An excellent com- mercial STRONG ACETIC ACID is thus obtained, without distillation, owing to the insolubility of sulphate of soda in acetic acid; and from which GLACIAL ACID may be procured by re- frigeration. If, however, the process be badly managed, or the proportions of the ingredients be not carefully observed, the product will be contaminated with either a little sulphuric acid of saline matter. It is also important to the success of this process, that it be performed in a cool apartment, and in well-cooled vessels. Perfectly pure acetic acid may easily be ob- tained by rectification from this acid. The above plan of superseding a troublesome dis- tillation is one of the greatest improvements yet introduced into the manufacture of acetic acid. 4. (Liebig’s process.) Pure acetate of soda, thoroughly dried and finely powdered, 3 parts, is j)laced in a capacious retort, and pure con- centrated sulphuric acid, 0-7 parts, poured over it through the tubulature. One-eighth of the acetic acid passes over by the heat de- veloped by the reaction of the ingredients The heat of a sand-bath is next applied and continued until the contents of the retort become quite liquid. The distillate, carefully rectified, yields two parts of pure acid, con- taining only 20 per cent, of water. On ex- posing the latter portion which comes over in a closed vessel to a temperature below 40° Fahr., crystals of hydrated acetic acid are deposited. The weaker, or liquid portion, being poured off, the crystals are again meltecl and re-crystallised by cooling. The crystals of the last operation, separated from the liquid, and carefully drained in a cool and closed