'735 HYDROEENZAMIDE—HYDROCEPHALUS. as sulphur is deposited, or until it becomes I colourless; the liquid is then gently heated to expel the excess of sulphuretted hydrogen, and either decanted or filtered. A cheap and excellent process. c. (Medicinal htdeiodic acid — Dr. Buchanan.) Tartaric acid, 264 gr.; pure iodide of potassium, 330 gr.; dissolve each separately in water, 1^ fl. oz., mix the solu- tions, and when settled, decant the clear liquid, and add water, q. s. to make it up to ! 6i fl. oz. The liquid retains a little hitartrate I of potassa in solution, but this does not inter- I fere with its medicinal properties. Dose. ^ to } 1 fl. dr., gradually increased to 2 or 3 fl. dr., j twice or thrice daily. Prop., 8fc. Gaseous hydriodic acid is colour- j less, fumes in the air, is very soluble in water, and has a density about 4‘4. Liquid hy- I driodic acid, when strong, is very liable to I change, and should be kept in well-stoppered bottles. The latter “ possesses all the thera- peutical powers cf iodine, without its irri- tating properties.” (Pereira.) Both the gas and solution are decomposed by potassium, zinc, iron, and other metals, wdth evolution of hydrogen and formation of iodides. HYDROBENZ'AMIDE. Prep. (Laurent.) Pure oil of bitter almonds is digested with 20 times its volume of concentrated liquor of ammonia, in a stoppered bottle for 10 or 12 hours, at a temperature of about 120° Fahr.; the resulting crystalline mass is washed with cold ether, and dissolved in alcohol; the alco- j holic solution, by spontaneous evaporation, I yields colourless crystals of hydrobenzamide. j Prop., ^0. Freely soluble in alcohol; in- I soluble in water; decomposed by heat; by ! boiling, or by the addition of hydrochloric I acid, the alcoholic solution is resolved into ' ammonia and bitter-almond oil. Hydroben- I zamide is chiefly interesting on account of the I number of derivatives it furnishes when sub- mitted to the action of chemical processes, i amongst which amaeine or benzoline is, perhaps, the most important. See Ben- zoline. HYDROBRO'MATE. A salt of hydrobromic j acid. See Beomide, and below. HYDROBRO'MIC ACID. Syn. Beomhy- DKIC ACID, ACIDUM HYDEOBEOMICIJ3I, L. An acid compound of hydrogen and bromine. It is prepared from bromide of phosphorus, bro- I mide of barium, &c., by similar processes to those adopted for hydeiodic acid. The best method consists in decomposing bromide of potassium by a strong solution of phosphoric I acid in a retort. The evolved gas is either I collected in dry glass bottles, in the manner I directed for chlorine,' or over mercury, in the ‘ pneumatic trough.’ When passed into it forms liquid iiydeobromic acid. Prop. A colourless, acidulous, and pungent j gas, which dissolves in water, and forms a limpid and colourless liquid. In both conditions it 1 See page 433. closely resembles the corresponding compounds of iodine and chlorine. With certain metals, hydrates, oxides, and carbonates, this acid reacts, producing the salts called beomides; HYDROCAR'BOH. Syn. Caebo-hydeogen. In chemistry, any compound consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen. The hydrocarbons constitute a very important group of organic bodies, many of them, as oil of turpentine, existing ready formed in plants, while others, as ethylene and naphthalene, are produced by the decomposition of more complex organic compounds. Many of them play the part of radicles, combining like metals with chlorine, oxygen, sulphur, &c. The methods by which hydrocarbons are obtained are very numerous, but prominent among them stands ‘ destruc- tive distillation.’ Thus, coal, by destructive distillation, yields a remarkable series of fluid hydrocarbons (benzol-seeies), and many gaseous ones. The temperature employed for the distillation determines in a great measure the nature of the products; if it be low, liquid hydrocarbons will be produced in excess; if it be high, the products will be, mostly, per- manent gases. ' The manufacturer of illu- minating GAS, therefore, takes care to keep his retorts at or near a ‘ cherry-red ’ heat, and the distiller of photogenic oils always en- deavours to prevent his retorts reaching the temperature of 800° Fahr., at which point permanent gases begin to form in abundance. The crude product obtained by distilling coal or other bituminous substance is a mixture of numerous hydrocarbons having different ‘ boiling-points.’ To separate them, the process termed ‘fractional distillation’ is commonly employed. This is performed by distilling the crude liquid in a retort having a thermometer in the ‘ tubulature,’ and changing the receiver at, say, every 10° Fahr. This process has, un- fortunately, little claim to accuracy as regards the absolute separation of bodies. See Benzole, Distillation, Hydeogen (Carburetted), Paeaffin, &c. HY'DROCELE. A collection of water or serous fluid betw'een the membranes of the scrotum, or the coats of the testicle and its vessels. Its treatment belongs to pure surgery. IIYDEOCEPH'ALUS. Syn. Deopsy of the BEAiN, Dropsy of the head. There are several forms of this disease noticed by nosolo- gists—internal, external, acute, chronic, &c. The acute form of hydrocephalus is almost limited to childhood. The symptoms are those of fever; there is pain in the head, accompanied with a sensation of heaviness, and in very young children there is often actual enlargement. Tlie eyes are irregularly directed, and only partially closed in sleep, and the pupil is more or less dilated. De- lirium, coiiia, convulsions, and paralysis, com- monly follow. The treatment recommended is bleeding from the temporal artery or jugu- lar vein, cold applications to the head, brisk purgatives {calomel combined with scammony