FILTRATION. 641 jpATENT FILTER into tll0 CORK-HOLE, by which 1 means the whole will be filtered as drawn off, without any trouble on the part of the operator. This filter consists of a porous lag stretched over a perforated metallic ves- sel, nearly the shape and size of the exterior cas- ing, and its edge is tightly screwed between the sides and bottom of the latter, so as to be quite water-tight. The cock communicates with the interior of the perforated plate and filter, and the supply- pipe with the exterior. By this means the interior chamber, which occupies gths of the vessel, rapidly fills with filtered oil, and con- tinues full as long as any liquor remains in 'the cask. This arrangement is also well adapted to the filtration of wines, beer, CORDIALS, PORTER, and various other liquors. It is unequalled in simplicity and usefulness. The same filter may be removed from cask to Icask, with the facility of a common cock. The filtration of syrups is now generally effected on the large scale by passing them through the ‘creased bag filter^ just de- scribed. On the small scale, as employed by confectioners and druggists, they are usually passed through conical flannel bags. (See page 639.) The filtration of thick syrups is, however, attended with some difficulty, and jit is therefore a good plan to filter them in a jsomewhat dilute state, and afterwards to reduce them to a proper consistence by evapo- ration in clean vessels of tinned copper, by steam heat. Syrups, when filtered in a heated 'state, run well for a time, but the pores of the 1^ fiibric rapidly get choked, from the thickening of the syrup and partial crystallization of the sugar, occasioned by the evaporation of the aqueous portion from the surface of the bag. This may be partially prevented by enclosing the bag in a metallic casing. On the wdiole, clarification is preferable for syrups to filtra- tion, on the small scale. They need only be well beaten up while cold with a little while of egg, and then heated; a scum rises, which must be removed as soon as it becomes con- sistent, and the skimming continued until the liquid be(.*omes clear. Any floating portions of scum that may have escaped notice are easily removed by running the syrup through 1 coarse flannel strainer, whilst hot. The most extensive application of the process of filtration in the arts is in the refining of mgars. Tinctures and dilute spirits arc usually iltered, on the small scale, through bibulous u‘ unsized paper placed on a funnel; and m the large scale, through thin and fine :’OTTON BAGS. In general, however, tinctures larify themselves by the subsidence of the uspended matter, when allowed to repose for a few days. Hence it is the bottoms alone that require filtering; the supernatant clear portion need only be run through a small hair sieve, a piece of tow or cotton placed in the throat of a funnel, or some other coarse me- dium, to remove any floating substances, as pieces of straw, &c. Spirits which are largely loaded with essential oil, as those of aniseed, &c., run rapidly through paper or calico, but usually require the addition of a spoonful or two of magnesia before they will flow quite clear. When possible, tinctures, spirits, and all similar volatile fluids, are better and more economically cleared by subsidence or clarifi- cation than by filtration, as, in the latter v/ay, a portion is lost by evaporation, and the strength of the liquid is thereby altered. Vegetable juices should be allowed to deposit their feculous portion before filtration. The supernatant liquid will then be often found quite clear. It is only when this is not the case, that filtration should be had recourse to. A small quantity may be filtered through coarse or woollen filtering PAPER, supported on a piece of coarse calico placed on a funnel; when the quantity is large, one of the conical bags before described should be employed. The bottoms from which the clear portion has been decanted should be placed on a separate filter, or else not added until the whole of the other portion has drained through. Vegetable juices are often rendered clear, by simply heating them to about 180® or 200® Fahr., by which their al- bumen is coagulated; they are also frequently clarified by the addition of a little white of egg and heat, in the same way as syrups. Many of them (as those of hemlock, hen- bane, ACONITE, &c.) are greatly injured bj'- heat, and must consequently be filtered, or only simply decanted after repose. In all cases they should be exposed to the air as little as possible, as they rapidly suffer decom- position. Vegetable infusions and decoctions may be cleared by defecation followed by fil- tration. The conical bags of flannel before described are usually employed for this pur- pose. When the liquid is to be evaporated to an extract, they are commonly suspended by a hook over the evaporating pan. A con- venient method of straining these fluids, prac- tised in the laboratory, is to stretch a square of flannel on a frame or ‘ horse,’ securing it at the corners by pieces of string. (See ejigr.) Such a frame, laid across the mouth of a pan, is more easily fed with fresh liquid than a bag, whose mouth is 40 or 50 inches higher. The same purpose, for small quantities of liquid, is effected by laying the flannel across the mouth of a coarse hair sieve. The CONCENTRATED INFUSIONS and DECOCTIONS, being usually weak tinctures, may be filtered 41