BLANCHININE—BLEACHING. 329 soaking it for some time in water is unne- cessary, and for the reasons stated, should be I avoided. Strong acetic acid (concentrated vinegar) poured on or rubbed over hard lean meat, [ gradually renders it soft and gelatinous. Ordi- i nary household vinegar has the same effect, but . in a less degree. Tough meat thus treated for 1a short time before dressing it, becomes more i tender and digestible, though somewhat less 9; nutritious; whilst the taste and flavour of the li vinegar is removed by the heat subsequently employed in dressing it. BLANCH'ININE. A name given, by Mills, fj to a new alkaloid which he thought he had 11 discovered in white cinchona bark. BLANCMANGE' (blo-mon^^zh). Syn. i Blancmangeb, (blon^-mon^-zha), Er. Lite- t rally, ‘ white food’; in cookery, a confected white jelly. It is commonly prepared by i simmering 1 oz. of isinglass, 2 or 3 oz. of t lump-sugar, and a little flavouring^, in about a pint of milk, until the first is dissolved, when i the whole is thrown into a jelly-hag, and the 1 strained liquor is allowed to cool and solidify; n it is next remelted by a gentle heat, and, 1 when nearly cold, poured into moulds, which I have been previously rubbed with a little salad- 1 oil and then wiped out again. Ohs. Good gelatine, or strong calves’ feet jelly, is often substituted for the ‘ isinglass.’ At other times the jelly is made with about I pint of water (instead of milk), when | pint of almond-milk^ or of cream, is added to the remelted jelly. Sometimes ground rice or arrow-root is employed in lieu of ‘ isinglass ’ when the product is called eice-blancmange, or West-Indian b,, as the case may be. , Teanspa"eent blancmange is merely cla- rified isinglass-jelly flavoured. See Ceeam (Stone), Isinglass, and Jelly. BLANQUENINE. Blanchinine. BLANQUETTE' (blan^-ket'). [Fr.] In cookery, a species of white fricasee. It is also the name of a delicate species of white wine, and of a particular sort of pear. BLASTTNG. In civil ecoAmilitary engineering, the disruption of rocks, &c., by the explosion of gunpowder, or of other like material. BLASTING POWDERS (Melville and Cal- low’s). Prep. 1. (Powder No. 1.) Chlorate of potassa, 2 parts ; red sulphuret of arsenic, 1 part; to be separately carefully reduced to powder, and lightly mixed together, scrupu- lously avoiding the use of iron instruments, percussion, much friction, the slightest con- tact with acids, or exposure to heat. 2. (Powder No. 2.) Chlorate of potassa, 5 parts ; red sulphuret of arsenic, 2 parts; ferro- cyanide of potassium (prussiate of potash), 1 part; as No. 1. 1 This may be 5 or 6 hitter almonds (grated), or a little cinnamon, orange, or lemon peel, &c., at will. Sometimes these are omitted, and a little orange-flower water, rose- water, or essence of vanilla, added to the remelted jelly. 2 A misnomer of the confectioners and cooks. 3. (Powder No. 3.) Chlorate of potassa and ferrocyanide of potassium, equal parts. Ohs. These compounds are not permanently injured by either salt or fresh water, merely requiring to be dried to regain their explosive character. They possess fully eight times the force of ordinary powder. One of their ad- vantages, especially to the underground miner, is the very trifling amount of smoke produced by their explosion. On the other hand, the extreme facility with which they explode by attrition, contact with a strong acid, and a slight elevation of temperature, render them unsuited to most of the purposes of ordinary gunpowder. On this account they should only be prepared in small quantities at a time, and with the utmost caution. Mr. Callow, the inventor of them, lost several of his fingers, and was rendered a cripple for life, by an ex- plosion of the kind referred to, which occurred only a few weeks after the sealing of his patent. A straw, or small strip of wood, only slightly wetted with oil of vitriol, and applied to a small heap of the powder, produces instan- taneous explosion. See Gun-cotton, Gun- powder, Mining, &c. BLAT'TA. [L.] In entomology, a genus of orthopterous insects, of which the common ‘ cockroach’ of our kitchens is an example. BLEACHTNG (bleche'-). Syn. Deal- ba'tio (-sh’o), InSOLA'TIO,3 &c., L. ; Blanchi- MENT, Blanchissage, Fr.; Bleichen, Ger. The process by which the colour of bodies, natural or acquired, is removed, and by which they are rendered white or colourless. It is more particularly applied to the decolorisation of textile filaments, and of cloths made of them. Hist. Bleaching is a very ancient art, as passages referring to it in the earlier sacred and profane writers fully testify. It had pro- bably reached a high degree of excellence among the inhabitants of the first Assyrian empire, and was certainly practised in Egypt long before the commencement of written history. We may fairl}' assume that ‘fine white linen’ formed part of the “ raiment”, which, together with “jewels of gold, and jew’els of silver,” and “precious things,” Abraham sent as presents to the beautiful Rebecca and her family,^ fully three centu- ries and a half before the Exodus. Subse- quently, in Scripture, we have special mention of “ fine linen, white and clean.” Herodotus, the earliest Greek historian, tells us, that the Babylonians wore “ white cloaksand in Athenaeus we read of “ shining fine linen,” as opposed to that which was “ raw” or un- bleached.® At this early period, and for many centuries afterwards, the operations of wash- ing, fulling, and bleaching, were not distinctly separated. The common system of washing 8 Bleacliing by exposure in the sun. 4 Gen., xxiv. 53; B. C. 1857. 5 Herod., i. 195. « Athen., ix. 77.