BOULES DE NANCY—BRAN. 346 position,’ rolled up firmly, and finished ofi* on a polished slab. 3. (Piderit’s.) Olive oil, 1 part; wax, 6 parts; as before. 4. (Bell’s.) Lead-plaster, 11 parts; yellow wax, 4 parts; olive oil, 1 part. 5. (St. B. Hosp.) Wax, 12 parts; Chio- turpentine, 4 parts; red sulphuret of mercury, 1 part. 6. Caou'tchouc BOUGIES:—In France, where ether is compai-atively inexpensive, these, are made by applying an ethereal solution of Indian- rubber to the silk or foil prepared as before. In England, naphtha was, until recently, em- ployed instead of ‘ ether’; but it furnishes a very inferior product. Now bisulphuret of carbon is generally used as the solvent. Some- times slips of Indian-rubber, previously boiled in water, or that have had their edges softened by moistening them with a little ether, or bisulphuret of carbon, are wound round the ‘ wire’ or ‘ foil,’ and kept in their place by a piece of tape applied over them. They are afterwards carefully smoothed off and po- lished. 7. Getta-per'cha bougies :—These are formed of gutta percha (previously softened by immersion in boiling water), by rolling it be- tween plates of polished glass or marble. When skilfully prepared from the best {uncoloured) gutta percha, they are admirable instruments. A bougie of this description, of moderate size, and slightly oiled, or wetted with glycerine or gum-water, may be passed through the whole length of the urethra of a healthy person without causing the slightest pain. Gutta- percha catheters (hollow bougies) are still more flexible and easily introduced, and may remain in the urethra for a long time without causing irritation; an important advantage in such matters. The reader cannot, however, be too careful to avoid those made of coloured gutta percha which, unfortunately, rapidly become very brittle by age. Those originally manu- factured in this material were coloured black, and were constantly breaking whilst in use; a disaster from which several serious and even fatal cases ensued. There is no such danger to be dreaded from those made of the ‘unco- loured’ material when of good quality. BOULES DE NANCY. See Balls (Martial). BOUILLI (b5oT-ye). [Fr.] A name fre- quently applied by cooks to dishes of boiled or stewed meat, as a refinement on its plain English synonymes. Thus ‘ beef bouilli,’ ‘ beef in bouilli,’ <^c., means stewed or boiled beef, &c. As, however, the name is a la fran9ais, so must be the ‘ accompaniments,’ which gene- rally consist of herbs and vegetable seasoning in greater quantity and variety than is usually deemed essential for an humble dish of English boiled or stewed meat. BOUILLON (bool'-yon^r). [Fr.] In cookery, broth, soup. BOUQUET'(boo-ka'). [Fr.] A nosegay. In perfumery, highly scented spirits {esprils) adapted for the ‘ handkerchief’ are commonly called ‘ boqiiets.’ The following are exam- ples :— Bouquet d’Amour. Prep. From esprits de rose, jasmin, violette, and cassie (flowers of ‘acacia farnesiana’), of each, 2 parts; essences of musk and ambergris, of each, 1 part; mix and filter. Bouquet de la Reine. Prep. 1. Essence of bergamot, 1 dr.; English oil of lavender, 25 drops; oil of cloves, aromatic vinegar, and essence of musk, of each, 10 drops; alcohol, 1 Jl. oz.; mix. 2. Oils of bergamot and lavender, of each, 30 drops; neroli, 15 drops ; oils of verbena and cloves, of each, 5 drops; essences of musk, am- ; bergris, and jasmin, of each, ^ dr.; rectified j spirit of wine, (strongest, scentless), 2 fi. oz. ; 1 mix. A much-esteemed perfume. • BRA'GRAS. Tar, black rosin, and the dregs of strained rosin, melted together. BRAIN (brane). Syn. BeainsX; Cer'ebrum:, L.; Cerveau, Fr.; Gehirn, Hirn, Ger. The soft whitish mass of nerve-matter contained in the skull of animals, and, in man, supposed to be the seat of the soul and the mind. ; Brains. (In cookery.) There appears to be scarcely anything which is at all eatable, that the ingenuity and taste of the modern cook does not appropriate to his purposes, and clothe with delectability, or transform into something execrable. We observe that our chef de cuisine—no unimportant personage— has taxed every viscera and brought together , every novelty and dainty to humour and ; excite the appetite. Animals which were \ guiltless of brains whilst living, are found by j him to possess excellent ones when dead, from t which he prepares a variety of miniature dishes, ^ which are truly novel and inviting. Let frugal housewives for the future carefully value their ‘brains,’ and apply them to useful pur- j poses in a double sense. When cleaned, washed, blanched, and flavoured with the necessary seasoning, they may be formed into a variety of ‘ hors-d’oeuvres,’ creditable to any table. Mrs. Rundell tells us, that “ beat up with a little white pepjjer and salt, a sage-leaf ov two (scalded and finely chopped), and the yelk of an egg, and fried, they make excellent cakes, fritters, &c.” What Soyer, that king of cuisiniers, can therefore do with them, the reader can well anticipate. BRAN. Syn. Fur'eur, L.; Bran, Son, Fr.; Kleie, Ger. The inner husk or proper coat of tlie cereal grains, sifted from the flour; appr., that of wheat. Uses, &;c. The bran of wheat, diffused througli hot water, is largely employed by the calico-printers to remove the colouring matter from those parts of their goods which are not ‘ mordanted.’ A handful mixed with a pail of warm water forms an excellent emollient FOOT-BATH. Infused in hot (bran-tea), and sweetened, it forms a popular demulcent, much used in coughs and hoarseness, and which,