1304 VARNISHING—VEGETABLES. lithographs on wood, and for gilding, silvering, &c. See Cetstal Vaenish. Turpentine Varnish. See Mastic and Oak Vaenish. Wainscot Varnish. See Oak Vaenish. Wax Varnish. Si/n. Milk of wax ; Emul- sio CEEiE SPIEITHOSA, L. Prep. Take of white wax (pure), 1 lb.; melt it with as gentle a heat as possible, add of warm rectified spirit, sp. gr. -830 (60 o. p.), 1 pint; mix perfectly, and pour the liquid out upon a cold porphyry slab; next grind it with a muller to a perfectly smooth paste, adding more spirit, as required; put the paste into a marble mortar, make an emulsion with water, 3^ pints, gradually added, and strain it through muslin. Used as a varnish for paintings; when dry, a hot iron is passed over it, or heat is otherwise evenly applied, so as to fuse it, and render it trans- parent, after which, when quite cold,. it is polished with a clean linen cloth. The most protective of all varnishes. 2. Wax (pure), 5 oz.; oil of turpentine, 1 quart; dissolve. Used for furniture. See Sealing-wax Vaenish. White Varnish. See Spieit Vaenish, 2, a and h. VAR'NISHING. To give the highest degree of lustre to varnish after it is laid on, as well as to remove the marJcs of the brush, it under- goes the operation of polishing. This is per- formed by first rubbing it with very finely powdered pumice-stone and water, and, after- wards, with an oiled rag and tripoli, until the required polish is produced. The surface is, last of all, cleaned with soft linen cloths, cleared of all greasiness with powdered starch, and then rubbed bright with the palm of the hand. In varnishing, great care must he’taken that the surface \%free from grease or smoke; as, unless this be the case, the best oil or turpen- tine varnish in the world will not dry and harden. Old articles are usually washed with soap and water, by the painters, before being varnished, to prevent any misadventure of the kind alluded to. VEAL. “The grain should be close, firm, and white, and the fat of a pinkish-white, not a dead white, and the kidneys well covered with thick white fat.” (Soyer.) Veal, like pork, requires to be well dressed, to develop its nutritive qualities. It should also be eaten fresh, as a peculiar principle is generated in it when improperly kept, which acts as a malignant poison. See Roasting, &c« VEGETABLE AL'KALIf. Potassa. VEGETABLE JUICES. See below. VEGETABLES. Vegetables are organic beings, which are distinguished from animals by a number of characteristics, hut, like them, are composed of certain proximate principles, or compounds, which possess a high degree of scientific interest, and in many cases are in- valuable to man. Among the most important of these are—albumen, gluten, gum, lignin, starch, sugar, tannin, wax, Uae fixed and volatile oils, the resins, and gum-resins, the alkaloids, and innumerable forms of extractive matter. Several of these substances are noticed under their respective names. The method of propagating plants from their seeds, depending on their simple exposure, at the proper season, to warmth and moisture, under the protection of the sod, is well known ; that by ‘ layers ’ has been briefiy referred to at page 823; and some points connected with their propagation from ‘ slips ’ and ^ cuttings' which will doubtless prove interesting to the amateur gardener, are noticed below. The choice of slips and cuttings should he made from the side shoots of trees and plants, and, when possible, from such as recline towards the ground, observing, when they are removed by the knife, to leave a little wood of a former year or season’s growth attached to them, as such are found to take root more readily than when they are wholly composed of new wood. The time to take'slips or cut- tings is' as‘ soon as the sap gets into full motion. Bfore setting' them the latter should be cut across, just below an eye or joint, with as smooth a section as possible, observing not to injure the bud. The superfiuous leaves may be removed, but a sufficient number should he left on for the purposes of vegetation. The common practice of removing all or nearly all the leaves of cuttings is injudicious. In some cases leaves alone will strike root. When cuttings are set in pots, they should be so placed as to reach to the bottom and touch the sides throughout their whole length, when they will seldom fail to become rooted plants. In the case of tubular-stalked plants, it is said to be advantageous to insert both ends into the soil, each of which will take root, and may then be divided, when two plants will be pro- duced instead of one. An equable temperature, a moist atmosphere, a shady situation, and a moderate supply of water, are the principal requisites to induce speedy rooting. Excess of any of these is prejudicial. When the size of the cuttings admit, it is better to place them under a hand- or bell-glass, which will preserve a constant degree of heat, and prevent evapo- ration from the surface of the leaves, which is the most common cause of their dying, especi- ally in hot, dry weather. Qual. The vegetable kingdom furnishes by far the larger portion of the food of man, and indirectly, perhaps, the whole of it. The great value of culinary vegetables and fruit in a mixed diet need not be insisted on, since it is a fact which is almost universally known and appreciated. In the choice of culinary vegetables, observe, that if they are stiff and break freely and crisply, they are fresh, and fit for food; if, on the contrary, they have a flabby appearance, or are soft or discoloured, they are stale, and should be rejected.