BISTRE—BITES AND STINGS. 318 Use. Chiefly in chemistry, and as a source of the pure oxide and the subnitrate. Obs. A saturated solution of bismuth in moderately strong nitric acid yields large crys- tals of this salt as it cools. Ox'ides of Bismuth. Of these^ only one pos- sesses any practical interest; another, exhi- biting acid properties, is described under Bis- MUTHic Acid.— 1. Terox'ide of Bismuth. Syn. Ox'ide OF BISMUTH, PeOTOxTdE OF B.; BiSMU'tHI Teeox'ydum, &c., L. Prep. 1. Anht'deous : —a. By exposing metallic bismuth to a red- white heat in a muffle, and collecting the con- densed fumes:—b. From either the neutral or the basic nitrate, by exposure, in a crucible, to gentle ignition. Pure. A straw -yellow powder, of rather difficult solubility. 2. Ht'deated :—By gradually dropping a nitric solution of bismuth into concentrated liquor of potassa perfectly free from carbonic acid, and washing and drying the resulting precipitate. Pure. A rich-looking white powder. Prop., ^c. Fuses at a high temperature, and then acts as a powerful flux on siliceous matter without itself imparting colour, a property of which the enameller and gilder has long availed himself. Like the basic nitrate, it has been used as an antispasmodic, and as a cosmetic. Sp. gr., 8-211 to 8-355. 2. Pentox'ide of Bismuth. See Bismuthic Acid. Sul'phuret of Bismuth. Syn. Bismu'thi SULPHUEe'tum, L. This compotmd occurs native (bis'mOthine), and may be easily prepared artificially by either fusing its ele- ments together, or by passing sulphuretted hydrogen through a solution of nitrate of bis- muth. Vale"rianate of Bismuth. Syn. Bismu'thi VALEEIA'nas, L. Prep. (Righini.) A neutral nitric solution of bismuth is decomposed with a solution of valerianate of soda in water con- taining a little free valerianic acid; the pre- cipitate is carefully w^ashed in distilled water, and dried in the shade. Recommended as superior to the ‘ subnitrate' in some forms of gastrodynia, dyspepsia, intermittents, &c.— Dose. 2 to 6 gr., or more. Bismu'thic Acid. Syn. Pentox'ide of bis- muth, PeEOXTdE of B. ; ACIDUM BISMU'- THICUM, &c., L. Prep. 1. Suspend teroxide of bismuth in a strong solution of potassa, and pass chlorine through the mixture until de- composition is complete; treat the powder with dilute nitric acid (to remove any undecomposed teroxide), after which wash it in cold water, and dry it. 2. The teroxide is gently heated, for some time, in a solution of chlorate of potassa, and the powder treated as before. Prop., HfC. A reddish powder, insoluble in water. Its salts, of which little are known, are called bis'muthates. When heated it * See Bismuth {ante). . loses 1 equiv. of oxygen, a bismuthate of bis- ' muth, by some regarded as an interme’diate \ i oxide (Bi04), being formed. ' BIS'TRE (-ter). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Bistee, I, Ger. Prep. 1. The most compact, best co- loured, and well-burnt portions of the soot \ of beechwood, or of peat^ are selected, reduced to powder, and sifted through a very fine lawn ' sieve. It is then digested in clear warm-water \. for several hours, with frequent stirring; after which it is allowed to settle, when the liquid portion is decanted from the sediment. Tliis process is repeated a second, and even a third time. The ‘ paste' is next poured into a taU narrow vessel, which is then filled with pure ■■ cold-water, and well agitated. The grosser parts only are now allowed to subside,^ and the supernatant liquor, containing the finer portion of the BISTEE in suspension, is poured off into ; another vessel, where it is left to deposit its contents. The deposit is next collected, and carefully dried and powdered; or it is only partially dried, and at once made into cakes with gum-water, or isinglass-size, and then allowed to dry and harden for sale. 2. (Dr MacCulloch.) The tar-like liquid obtained from the dry distillation of wood, is again carefully distilled until all ‘volatile matter' has passed over, and a brittle, ‘ pitch-like resi- duum' is obtained, which is either brown or black according to the time and temperature employed; after which the heat is still further prolonged, but with increased care, until the brittle substance becomes pulverulent, and carbonaceous. It is then ground and elutriated with pure cold-water, as before. Uses, 8fc. As a water-colour to tint drawings, in tbe same way as Indian ink, to which it is • esteemed superior wfflen the subjects are in- tended to be afterwards tinted with other ; colours. It occupies the same place among \: water-colours that ‘ brown-pink' does in oil. ,U According to Dr. MacCulloch, bistre from wood-tar, when carefully prepared, has great depth and beauty of colour, with all the fine properties of sepia; but that if the whole.oi the oils and acids have not been removed by the process, it is apt “ to collect in little flocks," which interfere with its use. BITES and STINGS. Syn. Moe'sCs (-sCs, sing.) ET Ic'tus (-tOs, s.), L. The treatment of the ‘ bites ' of non-venomous and non-rabid animals is the same as that of ordinary ‘ lace- rated’ or ‘punctured wounds,’ as the case may be ; that of the ‘ bites' and ‘ stings' of veno- mous and rabid animals, serpents, insects, S^c., often require, in addition, the use of special antidotes to destroy the virus, or to prevent its absorption, or to neutralise its effects when absorbed and to promote its elimination from the system. The ‘ bites' and ‘ stings' of ANTS, BEES, WASPS, HOENETS, and similar insects common to this climate, may be treated by washing 2 The first is usually employed in England. 3 Two or three minutes suffice for this purpose.