BHAURTA—BIFFIN. 311 Por'cupine Bezoar. Syn. B. hys'teicis, B. I hys'teicus, La'pis h., L. poeci'nus, &c., L. 1 Said to be found in the gall-bladder of the 1 Indian porcupine. Chiefly from Malacca. Has j an intensely bitter taste, which it imparts to water. ' West'ern Bezoar. See Occidental Bezoae (ante). Of the preceding, those from the stomach of ruminants vary in size from that of a bean to that of a hen’s egg, and have a composition and appearance closely imitated by the follow- ! ing formula, the product of which is commonly j sold for them :— i| Facti"tious Bezoar. Prep. From pipe-clay, ij or clay and chalk, equal parts, made into a stiff i paste with ox-gall; a little hair or wool being ! added, and the resulting mixture pressed by the hands into small masses of a flattened sphe- roidal or egg-like form. These give a yellow tint to paper rubbed with chalk, and a green one to quicklime, which tests are used for genuine bezoars. Like the latter, they are antacid or absorbent, which is probably the I only virtue they possess. I Amongst ‘ chemical bezoars’ now obsolete, even on the Continent, were— I Ar'gentine Bezoarf ; B. ltjna"ee, L. Made by distilling butter of antimony with a solu- I iion of nitrate of silver. Once highly es- teemed in epilepsy and head-diseases. I Min'eral Bezoar; B. mineea'le, L. Pow- der of alyaroth deflagrated with nitre in a red I hot crucible, and then well washed with water. I Once used as a diaphoretic. Other similar preparations were B. jovia'le (from tin), and B. maetia'le (from iron). Sat'urnine Bezoar, B. op lead ; B. satue'ni, L. Made by distilling a mixture of oxide of lead, butter of antimony, and nitric acid. Once highly esteemed in diseases of the spleen. BHAURTA. In Indian cookery, a dish made of mashed potatoes and onions, strongly spiced with capsicum, and sometimes also with curry- powder, ‘shaped’ in a mould, and then slightly baked. BI-, Bin-. See Bicaebonate, Nomencla- tuee, &c. BIAM'INE (-in). A term in pure chemistry. See Amine, Bi-, &c. BIBASTC. Syn. BibasTcus, L. ; Bibasiqee, Fr. In chemistry, having two bases*, or two atoms of the base or basic element in its com- position. See Acid, Nomenclatuee, Salt, &c. BIB'ERON (bib'-r5n^?). [Fr.] A ‘ sucking- bottle’ or ‘ artificial mother.’ See Bottles. BIBIR'IC ACID (be-). See Bebeeeic Acid. BI'BIRINE (be'-). See Bebeeeine. BIB'ULOUS (-U-). Syn. Bib'Oles, L. ; Spongieux, Fr. Absorptive ; spongy. BICAR'BONATE. Syn. Bicae'bonas, L. A salt containing tivo equivalents of ‘ carbonic acid’ and one equiv. of ‘base.’ [So of other salts of which the names contain the prefix bi- or im-.] See Nomenclateee and the respective bases. BICE (bise). Syn. Blue bice. See Blue Pigments. Green Bice. See Geeen Pigments. BI'DERY (be'-). Syn. Vi'dey. An alloy of which the chief seat of the manufacture is the city of Eider', near Hyderabad, India. It was first brought under the notice of the British public at the International Exhibition of 1851, where many articles made of it were greatly admired for the elegance of their forms, and the gracefulness of their engraved and enchased patterns. Prep. 1. Ziytc, 31 parts; copper and lead, of each, 2 parts; melted together, with the usual precautions, under a mixture of resin and bees'-wax, to prevent oxidation.^ 2. (Dr. Heyne.) Copper, 8 parts; lead, 2 parts; tin, 1 part; melted together, as before. For use the resulting alloy is remelted, and to every 3 parts of it, 16 parts of zinc are added. Prop., Sfc. Colour, between that of pewter and zinc; does not corrode by exposure to air or damp ; yields little to the hammer, and can only be broken by extreme violence. It pos- sesses a convenient degree of fusibility, above that of zinc and tin,but much lower than that of copper. For the turner it is usually cast in moulds of baked clay ; but otherwise in moulds of iron or other hard metal. The beautiful black colour, which the finished articles possess, is imparted by dipping them into a solution of sal-ammoniac, saltpetre, sea-salt, and blue vitriol. See Beass, Beonze, Pewtee, &c. BIDET' (bid-et'; -a'—Fr.). An article of bedroom furniture conveniently formed for laving the lower part of the body. Besides the value of its use as an instrument of per- sonal cleanliness and health, it olfers a ready means of medicating the parts, often highly serviceable in piles, prolapsus, affections of the scrotum and prostate gland, strangury, ischuria, suppressed or difficult menstruation, &c. See Ablution, Baths, &c. BIEN'NIAL (bl-en'-y’al). Syn. Bien'nis, L.; Biennal, Bisannuel, De deux ans, Fr.; ZwEiJAHEiG, Ger. Occurring once in, or lasting, two years. In botany and garden- ing, applied to plants that do not produce flowers and seed until the second year or season of their growth, and which then die; subst., a ‘ biennial plant.’ The existence of the ‘ biennials,’ like that of the annuals, may be prolonged by art; indeed, many of them, by carefully removing the flowers ere the seed-vessels begin to form, may be made to bloom a second season, and even for several seasons following, like perennials. See Annuals, Flowees, Plants, &c. BIFF'IN. A baked apple, flattened by pressure. Prep. The apples are placed in a cool oven, 6 or 7 times in succession, and flattened each J These are very nearly the proportions wliich Dr. Hamilton says he saw used in India.