WEN—WHITE HELLEBORE. 1336 WEN. The popular name of pulpy en- cysted and fleshy tumours of the face and neck. WHEAT. Syn. Teiticum, L. The ripe seed or fruit of several varieties of Triticum vulgare (Linn.), of which the principal are Triticum cestivum, or spring wheat, Triticum hybernum, or winter wheat, and Triticum tur~ gidum, or turgid wheat, the last two of which include several red and white sub-varieties. Of all the cereal grains, wheat appears to he that best adapted for bread corn, not merely on account of its highly nutritious character, but also on account of the power it possesses, from its richness in gluten, of forming a light and agreeable loaf by the process of fermenta- tion. According to Sir H. Davy, good English wheat contains of gluteuy 19g; starch, in- soluble matter, 4 to 5§. The average weight of good wheat per bushel is from 58 to 60 lb.; and its average yield of four is fully 12^ lb. for every 14 lb. The weight of the straw is said to be about double that of the grain. The produce per acre varies from 12 to 60, or even 64, bushels an acre. See Floue, Staech, &c. Buckwheat. Syn. Fagopteum. The seed of Fagopyrum esculentum, a plant of the na- tural order Polygonacece. It makes excel- lent cakes, crumpets, and gruel. In North America, buckwheat cakes, or rather peit- TEES, are in general use at breakfast, eaten with molasses. In England, buckwheat is cul- tivated as food for pheasants. Indian Wheat. See Maize. Steeps for Wheat. Quicklime, sulphate of zinc or white vitriol, sulphate of copper or blue vitriol, and arsenious acid or white arsenic, are the substances chiefly employed for this pur- pose. About 5 lb. of the first (slaked and made into a milk with water), 1^ lb. of the second, 1 lb. of the third, and 3 or 4 oz. of the last, are regarded as sufiicient for each sack of seed. The method of applying them is either to dis- solve or mix them with just sufficient water to cover the seed, which is then to be soaked in the mixture for a few hours, or a less quantity of water is employed, and the more concen- trated solution is, at intervals, well sprinkled, by means of a “ watering pot,” over the seed wheat spread upon the barn floor, the action being promoted by occasional stirring. Obs. The first two substances above named have been separately proved to be amply suffi- cient to destroy the smut” in seed wheat, and are perfectly harmless in their effects, which renders them greatly preferable to ar- senic, or even to sulphate of copper. Nearly all the numerous advertised ‘ Anti-smuts,^ or nostrums to prevent the smut in wheat, con- tain one or other of the last three of the above substances. WHEY. Syn. Seeum lactis, L.; Petit BAIT, Fr. The liquid portion of milk after the curd has b^^en separated. It consists chiefly of water, holding in solution 3 or 4§ of sugar of milk. A pound of milk, mixed with a table- spoonful of proof spirit, allowed to become sour, and the whey filtered from the sedi- ment, yields, in the course of a few weeks, a good vinegar, (whet vinegae), free from lactic acid. (Scheele.) Skimmed milk may be used. ATum Whey. Syn. Seeum lactis alu- MiNATUM, L. Prep. Take of powdered alum, 1 dr.; hot milk, 1 pint; simmer a few seconds, let it repose for a short time, and strain the whey from the coagnlum. Used in diarrhoea, &c.; a wine-glassful after every motion. Acid WHET (seeum lactis acidum) may be pre- pared in a similar manner, by substituting ^ dr.' of tartaric or citric acid for the alum. Oeange whet and lemon whet are pre- pared from the juice of the respective fruits, with a little pf-the yellow peel to impart fla- vour. WHEY POWDER. Prep. 1. From whey gently evaporated to dryness, and powdered along with about l-3rd of its weight of lump sugar. 2. Sugar, 7 oz.; sugar of milk, 2 oz.; gum arabic, 1 oz., (all in fine powder;) mix well. 1 oz. dissolved in li pint of water, forms EX- tempoeaneous whet. WHIS'KEY. Dilute alcohol obtained from the fermented wort of malt or grain. That from the former is the most esteemed. The inferior qualities of this spirit are prepared from barley, oats, or rye, a small portion only of which is malted, or from potatoes mashed with a portion of barley malt, the resulting wash being carelessly fermented and distilled, and purposely suffered to burn, to impart the peculiar empyreumatic or smoky flavour so much relished by the lower orders of whiskey- drinkers. The malt whiskey (sold as such) of the principal Scotch and Irish distillers is fully equal in quality to London gin, from which it merely differs in flavour. The pecu- liar flavour of whiskey may be nicely imitated by adding a few drops each of pure creasote and purified fusel oil to 2 or 3 gallons of good London gin; and the imitation will be still more perfect if the liquor be kept for some months before drinking it. See Gin, Spieits, and Usquebaugh. WHITE AR'SENIC. Arsenious acid. (See page 214.) WHITE-BAIT. The Clupea Latulus (Clu- pea alba—Yarrell), a very small and delicate fish, common in the brackish waters of the Thames from April to September. When fried in oil, it is esteemed a great luxury by epicures. WHITE COPPER. See Geeman Silvee and Packeong. WHITE HEL'LEBORE. Syn. Veeateum (Ph. L. & E.)j Veeatei albi eadix, L. ‘‘The rhizome of Veratrum album, Linn., or white hellebore.’^ (Ph. L.) A powerful acrid cathartic, emetic, and sternutatory. It is now