212 ARSENIC. vessels unaltered, but when exposed to the air with conversion into arsenious acid; at a higher temperature, in open vessels, it burns with a pale-blue flame. Its vapour or fumes have a characteristic alliaceous odour; it is slowly oxidised and dissolved by boiling water, but may be preserved unchanged in pure cold water; it rapidly tarnishes in the air, par- ticularly when moist, a black film {sub-oxide— Berz.), consisting of metallic arsenic and arse- nious acid forming on its surface ; with chlo- rine, iodine, sulphur, and hydrogen, it unites to form definite compounds. With oxygen it forms acids, but no basic oxide. It combines with the metals in a similar manner to sulphur and phosphorus, the latter of which it resem- bles in many respects. These compounds {arsenical alloys) are termed ARSEN'irEETS or ar'senides. Sp. gr., 5-7 to 5*9; sp. gr. of vapour, 1-0362. Tests, estim., Sfc. It may be examined in the metallic state, or it may be dissolved in nitric acid and tested as arsenic acid, or in hydrochloric acid and tested for arsenious acid. It is WEIGHED as arseniate of lead, tersul- phuret of arsenic, ^c., in the manner noticed under Aeseniohs Acid. (See below.) Uses, ^c. With copper it forms a white alloy (packpong); and it is added to some other alloys to increase their whiteness, hard- ness, and fusibility. In medicine, it is only used in combination. In the metallic state it is inert; but, from its great affinity for oxygen, it rapidly becomes oxidised and poi- sonous; and hence acts as a powerful poison when swallowed, or when rubbed on the skin. Its fumes are also highly poisonous. See Aeseniods Acid (and below). Bromide of Arsenic. Syn. Teebeo'mide op ARSENIC, SeSQDIBEO'MIDE OP A. ; AeSEN'ICI beomi'dum, L. Prep. Add metallic arsenic, in powder, cautiously and in a very small quan- tity at a time, to pure bromine, contained in a vessel set in ice or a freezing mixture, until light ceases to be emitted; then cautiously distil into a well-cooled receiver. Prop., &fc. Solid below 68° Fahr.; above it, a yellowish fuming liquid, which boils at 428° Fahr. Chlo"rides of Arsenic:— 1. Protochlo"ride of Dumas:—Arsenious acid, 1 part; concentrated sulphuric acid, 10 parts; mix in a tubulated retort, heat to 212°, project in, very gradually, small quantities of chloride of soMum, and collect the newly- formed chloride in a well-cooled receiver. The pure PEOTOCHLOEIDE swims on a small portion which is hydrated, if the process has been too long continued; but the latter may be ren- dered anhydrous by distillation from concen- trated sulphuric acid. 2. Terchlo"ride of Arsenic. Syn. Chlo"- EIDE or A.; SeSQUICHLO"eIDE OP A., BuTT'ER OF A.*, Fu"MI]SrG LTQ'UOR OP A.; AeSEN'ICI TEECHLORI'DUM, a. chloei'dum, &c., L, Prep.:—a. From a mixture of arsenic, 1 part; and bichloride of mercury, 6 parts; both in powder, carefully distilled into a well-cooled receiver. b. Gently boil powdered arsenic for some time in hydrochloric acid to which a little nitric acid has been added; then concentrate cautiously by evaporation, and distil as before. Prop., ^c. A colourless, volatile, highly poisonous liquid, decomposed by water into arsenious acid and hydrochloric acid. It is also produced, with the disengagement of heat and light, when powdered arsenic is thrown into gaseous chlorine. It has been employed as a caustic in cancer and venereal warts; but its use requires the greatest cau- tion. See Solutions. Flu'oride of Arsenic. Syn. Teeplu'oeide OP Arsenic. A fuming volatile liquid, pared as the ‘ bromide ’ (see above). Hy'dride of Arsenic. See Aeseniueetted Hydrogen. Hydri'odate of Arsenic & Mercury. See Donovan’s Solution. Fodides of Arsenic. Two only have been used in medicine, although others, which are doubtful, have been described by che- mists :— 1. Teri'odide of Arsenic. Stjn. Iodide op Arsenic, Io'dueet op a., Hydri'odate of A.; Aesen'ici iodi'dum, A. teeiodi'dum, a, hydeio'das, Aesen'icum ioda'tum, L. ; Ar- senic iodure, &c., Fr. Prep.:—a. From finely-pulverised metallic arsenic, 2 parts; ‘ iodine, 11 parts; mixed and gently heated in ). a bent glass-tube, or a suitable retort, until combination is complete; the heat being then raised, and the sublimed iodide collected, and at once put into a well-stopped phial. b. (Magendie.) From arsenious acid, 16 parts; iodine, 100 parts ; as the last. c. (W. Procter.) Arsenic, in fine powder, 1 part; iodine, 5 parts ; triturate them together, place the mixture in a small flask or retort just large enough to contain it, and apply a gentle heat until liquefaction is complete, avoiding the formation of iodine vapour; when the odour of iodine is no longer percep- tible, and the mass assumes a reddish-yellow colour and crystallises on the sides of the vessel, the operation is complete, without having recourse to sublimation. A very easy and excellent process. d. (Wackenroder.) Arsenic, in powder, 1 part; iodine, 6 parts; water, 120 parts; digest together in a flask, and after combina- tion, evaporate bj’’ a gentle heat (but as quickly as possible), observing that as soon as the mass begins to solidify, the temperature must not exceed 86° Fahr. e. (Meurer.) Arseniuretfedhydrogenis^^^^^^l^ into a solution of iodine, 1 part; in rectified spirit, 32 parts; until the liquid is decoloured; , a fresh quantity of iodine is then added, and the process continued as before. If the solu- ^ tion becomes turbid it is rendered clear by the addition of a little iodine. The spirit is, lastly, )