594 ETHEE. paper red; sometimes very slightly, or even not at all. J fi. oz. mixes completely with ^ pint of water.” (Ph. L. 1851.) Pure ether should, however, be neutral to test paper. “ When shaken in a minim measure with half its volume of concentrated solution of chloride of calcium, its volume is not lessened.” (Ph. E.) Vd fluid ounces of water should only dis- solve 1 fluid ounce of ether, and remain trans- parent. Preserv. Ether rapidly evaporates at com- mon temperatures when kept in corked bot- tles, and even in bottles secured with ground- glass stoppers and tightly tied over with bladder and leather; it also becomes sour by age. To prevent this waste, the stoppers should fit accurately, and the bottles should he placed in as cool a situation as possible. Bottles furnished with ground-glass caps, as well as stop- pers, are frequently employed. (See engr.) Dewar’s ‘ ether phial’is formed on a similar principle. We have seen bottles of ether accu- rately stoppered, tied over with bladder, and thickly coated with wax, which have yet become quite empty by a voyage to the tropics, though they still appeared to be as closely secured as when they were first filled. Caution. The vapour of ether is very in- flauimahle, and when mixed with atmospheric air, it forms a violently explosive mixture. The density of this vapour is 2 586, that of air being 1 (Gay Lussac); hence it rapidly sinks, and frequently acjcumulates in the lower parts of buildings, especially cellars which are badly ventilated, in the same way as water does. The only remedy is thorough ventilation. Many serious accidents have arisen from this cause, for no sooner is a light carried into an apart- ment where such vapour is present, than an explosion takes place. See Ethyl, and helow. Ace'tic Ether. Syn. Acetate of ethee. Acetate of oxide of ethyl, Pyeoligneous ETHEE; JilTHEE ACETICHS, L. A compound discovered by the Count de Lauraguais in 1759. Prep. 1. (Fownes.) Acetate of potassa, 3 parts (or an equiv. quant, of acetate of soda), alcohol (852), 3 parts, oil of vitriol (strongest), 2 parts, are mixed together and distilled, by the heat of a sand hath, from a glass or earth- enware retort into a well-cooled receiver; the distillate is agitated with a little ivater to re- move undecomposed alcohol, and then digested flrst with a little chalk, to remove acidity, and afterwards with fused chloride of calcium, to absorb water; it is, lastly, rectified by a gentle heat. 2. (Liebig.) Acetate of soda (cryst.), 10 parts, oil of vitriol, 15 parts, alcohol (852), 6 parts, are distilled as before, and rectified along with chloride of calcium to absorb the water, and fresh-slaked lime to remove free acid. 3. (Liebig.) Acetate of leadffihf), 32 parts ; oil of vitriol, 12 parts; alcohol, 9 parts; as the last. 4. (P. Cod. 1839.) Rectified spirit (sp. gr. ' •84), 50 parts, acetic acid (sp. gr. 1’075), 33 parts, are mixed together, and oil of vitriol (strongest), 10 parts, added; the distillation is continued until 65 parts have passed over, and the distillate, after digestion for some hours on a little dry carbonate of potassa, is rectified as before, the first 50 parts only being kept for use. 5. (Ph. Bor.) Acetate of soda (cryst.), 20 oz. (or, dried, 12 oz.), alcohol (*810 to *813) and oil of vitriol, of each, 14 oz., are distilled until 12 oz. have passed over; the distillate is agitated with a solution of acetate of potassa (contg. 34§ of the salt), and after being de- canted, is lastly rectified from 1 dr. of calcined magnesia. 6. (Ure.) Acetate of lead, 40 parts; concen- trated sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol), 23 parts; alcohol, 20 parts; as before; the distilled liquor is agitated with a weak lye of potassa, and the supernatant ether decanted and rec- tified along with magnesia and powdered char- coal. 7. (Ure.) Acetate of lead (dried, or anhy- drous), 32 4iarts; oil of vitriol, 10 parts; absolute alcohol (or its equiv. in alcohol of 802 or 85§), 9 parts; as before. Prop., Sfc. Acetic ether is colourless, and bears a considerable resemblance to ordinary ether (stjlphueic ethee), but it has a much more agreeable and refreshing odour. It boils at 165° Fahr.; has a sp. gr. of -89 at 60° Fahr.; dissolves in about 7 parts of water; and mixes in all proportions with alcohol and ether. It is decomposed by alkalies and the strong acids. Acetic ether is diaphoretic, stimulant, anti- , spasmodic, and narcotic. Bose. | to 2 fl, dr.; ® in similar cases to those in which sulphuric ether is employed, and especially in nervous and putrid fevers, spasmodic vomitings, and diseases of the bowels and stomach, arising from debility, and not of an inflammatory cha- racter. Its principal consumption is in the manufacture of British brandy. Acetic Ether (Chlorinet'ted). A dense, oily liquid, formed by the action of gaseous chlopine on pure acetic ether. Benzo'ic Ether. Syn. Benzoate of ethee, B. OF OXIDE OF ETHYL ; EtHEE BENZOICHS, L. Prep. (Liebig.) Alcohol (sp. gr. *830), 4 parts, benzoic acid (cryst.), 2 parts, concen- trated hydrochloric acid, 1 part, are distilled together; as soon as the product turns milky when mixed with water, the receiver is changed, and the liquid that distils over collected; to this liquid water is added, and the supernatant ether is decanted, and boiled with water and a little oxide of lead (to separate benzoic acid) ; it is, lastly, freed from water by allowing it to i stand over chloride of calcium.