BOMBIC ACID—BOOKBINDING. 341 resemble, except in their larger size. Those persons who object to swallowing them in their common state, may wrap them in soft paper, or introduce them into the emptied husks of raisins or grapes. I Boluses (‘bo'll,’ L.) dire prepared'wlt'h the I same ingredients, and in a similar manner to I pills (which see). \ BOM'BICACID. Si/n. Acide bombique, Fr. A substance obtained, by M. Chaussier, from the acid liquor found near the anus of the silkworm-chrysalis. It has since been shown to be identical with formic acid. BON'-BON (bon^'-bon^). [Fr.] A sugar-plum. See CoNFECTiONAEY and Sugae-plums. BONE. Syn. Os, L., Fr.; Bein, Knochen, Ger,; Ban, Sax. The hard substance forming the interior skeleton of animals, or any single part of it. Comp. According to Berzelius:— Human bones. Ox bones. Animal matter soluble by boiling . . . 32'17 Vascular substance . . 1T3 Phosphate of lime, with a little fluoride of calcium 53*04 Carbonate of lime . . 11*30 Phosphate of magnesia . 1*16 Soda, with a little chlo- ride of sodium . . 1*20 ... 3*45 33*30 57*35 3*85 2*05 100* 100* The soluble anipaal matter is chiefly fat and gelatine. Uses, 8cc. The bones of animals are em- ployed for various purposes in the arts, manu- factures, and domestic economy. Those of good meat form most excellent materials for j making soups and gravies, as is well known to ^ every cook. In France, soup is extensively made by subjecting bruised bones to a steam heat of 2 or 3 days’ continuance. In Eng- land the same is ^commonly effected in an iron Papinas digester. When the earthy matter of a bone is dissolved out by digesting it in a large quantity of very dilute hydrochloric acid, a lump of gelatine is obtained, which, after being well washed with water, is equal to isinglass for all the purposes of making soups and jellies. The following is the process recommended by Proust for making the best of bones, in hospitals, gaols, and similar estab- lishments :— The bones, crushed small, are to be boiled for 15 minutes in a kettle of water, and the fat (which is fit for all common purposes) skimmed off, as soon as cold. The bones are then to be ground, and boiled in 8 to 10 limes i their weight of water (of which that already used must form a part), until half of it is wasted, when a very nutritious jelly will be obtained. Iron-vessels should alone be used in this process, as the jelly and soup act upon copper, brass, and the other common metals. The bones of fresh meat are the most pro- ductive ; those of boiled meat come next, whilst those of roasted meat scarcely afford any jelly. boning’ meat before cooking it is now a very general practice, a quantity of fresh bones may always be obtained. Bones are, for the most part, WEorGHT, TUENED, BLEACHED, and DYED, ill a similar manner to ‘ ivory’; but with less care, owing to their inexpensive and coarser character. Before being submitted to any of these ope- rations they are, however, first submitted to long boiling, to deprive them of grease. The bones of living animals may be dyed by mixing madder with their food. The bones of ‘young pigeons’ may thus be tinged of a rose- colour in 24 hours, and of a deep scarlet in 3 days \ but the bones of adult animals take a fortnight to acquire even a rose-colour. The bones nearest the heart become tinged the soonest. In the same way extract of logwood tinges the bones of ‘young pigeons’ purple. See Bleaching, Dyeing, Iyoey, &c. BONE'-ASH. Impure phosphate of lime, obtained by calcining bones to whiteness, and reducing the ‘ ash’ to fine powder. Used to make pure phosphate of lime, to form cupels, S(c. ; also sold for burnt hartshorn. BONE'-DUST. Syn. Bone-manhee. Bones (previously boiled for their grease) ground to different degrees of coarseness, in a mill. It is sowed along with the seed in a drill. Wheat thus treated, is said to yield 30 to 50 per cent, more weight in straw and grain than by the common methods. Turnip, and other light soils, it renders more than ordinal ily pro- ductive. Bone-manure is much used in the west of Yorkshire, Holderness, and Lincoln- shire. The usual quantity per acre is 70 bushels, when used alone; but when mixed with ashes or other common manure, 30 bushels per acre is said to be enough. When coarse, and applied in the same manner as other manures, it has been found to remain upwards of seven years in the ground, the productiveness of which it has increased during the whole time. BONE'-GLUE. See Gelatine. BONE'-GREASE. From refuse bones, bruised, boiled in water, and the broth skimmed when cold. Prod, f th to 5th of the weight of the dry bones. (Proust.) Used for making soap and candles. See Animal Chaecoal. BONE'-PHOSPHATE. See Teibasic Phos- phate OE Lime. BONE'-SHAVINGS. Syn. Bone'-dhst (Turn- ers’), Bone-tuenings. This, by boiling with water, yields a beautiful jelly, which is nearly equal to that produced from hartshorn and ivory-shavings, for which it is very frequently sold. Used to make jellies and blancmanges, to stiffen straw bonnets, &c. BOOK'BINDING (-bind-). Although a full description of the various operations of this well-known art, or handicraft, does not properly fall within the province of this work, a brief notice of them willprobably, in many cases, prove useful to the amateur and the emigrant:—