MARMARATUM—MASTICATORIES. 887' sieve whilst hot, and then putting them into pots or glasses. The fruit-pulps are obtained by rubbing the fruit through a fine hair sieve, either at once or after it has been softened by simmering it for a short time along with a HI tie water. When heat is employed in mixing the ingredients, the evaporation should be continued until the marmalade ‘jellies ^ on cooling. See Conserves, Coneections, Elec- TFARiES, Jams, Jellies, and below. Apricot Marmalade. From equal parts of pulp and sugar. Mixed Marmalade. From plums, pears, and apples, variously fiavourcd to palate. Orange Marmalade. Prep. 1. From oranges (either Seville or St. Michael’s, or a mixture of the two), by boiling the peels in syrup until soft, then pulping them through a sieve, adding as much white sugar, and boiling them with the former syrup and the juice of the fruit to a proper consistence. 2. By melting the confection of orange peel (Ph. L.), either with or without the addition of some orange or lemon juice, and then passing it through a sieve. 3. (Candied oranoe marmalade.) From candied orange peel, boiled in an equal weight each of sugar and Avater, and then passed through a sieve. 4. (Scotch marmalade.)—a. Seville orange juice, 1 quart; yellow peel of the fruit, grated; honey, 2 lb.; boil to a proper consistence. b. Seville oranges, 8; peel them as thinly as possible, then squeeze out the juice, boil it on the yellow peels for ^ hour, strain, add white sugar, 7 lb., and boil to a proper con- sistence. Quince Marmalade. Sgn. Diacydonifm. From quince fiesh or pulp and sugar, equal parts; or from the juice (miva cydoniorum, GELATINA c.), by boiling it to i, adding an equal quantity of white wine and §rds of its weight of sugar, and gently evaporating the mixture. Tomato Marmalade. Like apricot mar- malade, adding a few slices of onions and a little parsley. MARMORA'TUM. Finely powdered marble and quicklime, well beaten together; used as a cement or mortar. MAR'ROW (Beef). This is extensively em- ployed by the perfumers in the preparation of various pommades and other cosmetics, on account of its furnishing an exceedingly bland fat, which is not so much disposed to rancidity as the other fats. It is prepared for use by soaking and working it for some time in luke- warm water, and afterwards melting it in a water bath, and strairiing it through a piece of muslin Avhilst hot. When scented, it is es- teemed equal to beaPs grease for promoting the grow’th of the hair. MARSH GAS. Light carburetted hydro- gen. See Hydrogen. MARSH’S TEST. See Arseniotts Acid. MARSH-MALLOW. Srjn. Althjea (Ph. L. & E.), L. The root (leaves and root—Ph. E.) of Althaea officinalis, Linn., or common marsh^ mallow. (Ph. L.) It is emollient and demul- cent; the decoction is useful in irritation of the respiratory and urinary organs, and of the alimentary canal. The floioers as well as the root are reputed pectoral. MARTIN’S POWDER. A mixture of white arsenic and the powdered stems of Orobanche virginiana (Linn.), a plant common in Virginia. An American quack remedy for cancer. MASS. Syn. Massa, L. This term is com- monly applied m pharmacy and veterinary medi- cine to certain preparations which are not ‘ made up ’ into their ultimate form. Thus, we have ‘ball-masses,’ ‘pill-masses,’ &c.; of wdiicli, for convenience, large quantities are prepared at a time, and are kept in pots or jars, ready to be divided into balls or pills, as the demands of business may require. MAS'SICOT. Syn. Masticot, Yellow prot- oxide OF LEAD; PlUMBI OXYDUM FLAVFM, Cerussa citrina, L. The dross that forms on melted lead exposed to a current of air, roasted until it acquires a uniform yellow colour. Artists often apply the same name to white lead, roasted until it turns yellow. Used as a pigment. MASTIC. Syn. Mastich, Gitm mastic ; Mastiche, L. The “ resin flowing from the incised bark of Pistacia Lentiscus, var. ChiaP (Ph. L.) It occurs in pale yellowish, trans- parent, rounded tears, w’hich soften between the teeth when chew^ed, and giving out a bitter, aromatic taste. Sp. gr. 1*07. It is soluble in both rectified spirit and oil of tur- pentine, forming varnishes. It is chiefly used as a ‘ masticatory,^ to strengthen and preserve the teeth, and perfume the breath. Mastic. Fine mortar or cement used for plastering walls, in which the ingredients, in a pulverulent state, are mixed up, either en- tirely or with a considerable portion of linseed oil. It sets very hard, and is ready to receive paint in a few days. See Cements. MASTICATION. The act of chewing food, by wdiich it not only becomes comminuted, but mixed with the saliva, and reduced to a form fit for deglutition. It has been justly regarded by the highest authorities as the first process of digestion, and one without which the powers of the stomach are over- tasked, and often performed with difficulty. Hence the prevalence of dyspepsia and bow*- elly complaints among persons with bad teeth, or who ‘ bolt ’ their food without chewing it. MAS'TICATORIES. Syn. Masticatoria, L. Substances taken by chewing them. They are employed as intoxicants, cosmetics, and medicinals; generally with the first intention. The principal masticatory used in this country is tobacco. In Turkey, and several other Eastern nations, opium is taken in a similar manner. In India, a mixture of areca nut, betel leaf, and lime,^ performs the same duties; 1 See page SIO.