STANNIC ACID—STARCH. 1236 the plan of never speaking without having the chest moderately filled with air, and then only slowly and deliberately. Hasty and rapid speaking must not be attempted until the habit of stammering is completely subdued. Nervous excitement and confusion must he avoided as much as possible, and the general health attended to, as circumstances may direct. This variety of stammering is commonly distin- guished by the person being able to sing with- out hesitation. Stammering depending on elongation of the uvula, and other like causes, may be generally removed by a simple surgical operation. STAN'NIC ACID. Peroxide of tin. STARCH. Syn. Amylaceous eecula; A- MTLUM, L. One of the most important and widely diffused of the proximate principles of vegetables, being found, in greater or less quantity, in every plant. The mealy and fa- rinaceous seeds, fruits, roots, and the stem-pith of certain trees, consist chiefly of starch in a nearly pure state. Wheat contains about 752 and POTATOES about 15§ of this substance. From these sources the fecula is obtained by rasping or grinding to pulp the vegetable structure, and washing the mass upon a sieve, by which the torn cellular tissue is retained, whilst the starch passes through with the li- quid, and eventually settles down from the latter as a soft, white, insoluble powder, which, after being thoroughly washed with cold water, is dried in the air, or with a very gentle heat. Wheat staech (amtlum—Ph. L. E. & D.) is commonly prepared by steeping the dour in water ior a week, or a fortnight, during which time the saccharine portion ferments, and the starch-granules become freed, for the most part, from the glutinous matter which envelopes them, by the disintegrating and sol- vent action of the lactic acid generated by the fermentation. The sour liquor is then drawn off, and the feculous residue washed on a sieve; what passes through is allowed to settle, when the liquid is again drawn off, and the starch thoroughly washed from the slimy matter; it is then drained in perforated boxes, cut up into square lumps, placed on porous bricks to ab- sorb the moisture, and, lastly, air or stove dried. In the preparation of starch from potatoes (potato staech) and other like vegetable sub- stances, the roots or tubers, after being washed and peeled, either by hand-labour or by ma- chinery, are rasped by a revolving grater, and the pulp washed on hair sieves until freed from feculous matter. Successive portions of the pulp are thus treated until the vessel over which the sieves are placed, or into which the washings run, is suflBciently full. The starch held in suspension in the water having sub- sided to the bottom, the water is drawn off, and the starch stirred up with fresh water, and again allowed to subside. This operation is repeated several times, with fresh water, until the starch is rendered sufficiently pure for commercial purposes, when it is washed anc dried as before. The waste fibres and th. washing waters are used as manure. (See Ae EOW-EOOT.) In the manufacture of starch from rice an( Indian corn (eice staech, maize staech), i very dilute solution of caustic soda, contain ing about 200 gr. of alkali to each gallon O; liquid, is employed to facilitate the disintegra tion and separation of the gluten and othe nitrogenized matters. A weak solution 0 ammonia, or sesquicarbonate of ammonia, i also similarly employed with advantage. Th' gluten may be recovered by saturating th alkali with dilute sulphuric acid. Such stare) does not require boiling, and is less apt thaij^ wheat starch to attract moisture from th atmosphere. Most of the so-called ‘ wheate; starch’ of commerce used by laundresses is nov prepared from rice. To whiten the starches made from damage roots and grains, and the coarser portions 0 ' those from sound ones, a little solution q chloride of lime is occasionally added to th water, followed by another water containin; . a very little dilute sulphuric acid; every trac of the last being afterwards removed by th copious use of pure soft or spring water. The bluish-white staech used by laun dresses is coloured with a mixture of smali and alum in water, and is regarded as unfi for medicinal purposes. Prop., ^c. Starch is insoluble in cold watei and in alcohol and most other liquids, but i readily forms a gelatinous compound (AMIDI^ with water at about 175° Fahr.; alcohol an most of the astringent salts precipitate i; from its solutions; infusion of galls throw . down a copious yellowish precipitate, con taining tannic acid, which is redissolved b ; heating the liquid; heat and dilute acids con vert it into dextrin and grape sugar; stron alkaline lyes dissolve it, and ultimately decon pose it. Sp. gr. 1-53. To the naked eye it presents the appearanc of a soft, white, and often glistening pow der; under the microscope it is seen to b altogether destitute of crystalline structun but to possess, on the contrary, a kind of 01 ganization, being made up of multitudes ( . little rounded transparent bodies, upon eac of which a series of depressed parallel ring surrounding a central spot or hilum, may 1 traced. The starch-granules from differer plants vary both in magnitude and forn Those of POTATO-STAECH and canna staec (tous les mois) are the largest, and those ' EICE and MILLET STAECH the smallest, tl dimensions ranging from the 5^ to the ^,^55' an inch. The granules of aeeow-EOOT an TOUS LES MOIS are ovoid, those of potai STAECH both oblong and circular, those of T- PIOCA mutter-shaped, and those of WHEi STAECH circular. Ideniif. One of the commonest frauds tised upon the profession and the public is tl