ASPHYXIATED—ASSAFCETIDA. 236 been arrested by the external condition of the patient; the latter, by the contact of morbidly carbonised blood with the capil- lary vessels of the lungs. The first thing to be attempted, is the restoration of warmth by active friction with the warm hands, flannels, &c.; the second, the re-establish- ment of natural respiration by any available means, of which, perhaps, none is simpler or better than alternate pressure and its relax- ation, applied to the thorax and abdomen, so as to induce expiration first, and inspiration immediately afterwards, by the natural action and elasticity of the ribs and diaphragm. Cold water may also be suddenly dashed on the face and general surface previously warmed by the frictions, in the hope of inducing a more decided inspiration. If these measures fail, artificial respiration should be promptly had recourse to. (Dr. Marshall Hall.) The w'arm bath, and slight electrical shocks, or continued streaming electricity, may also be applied. Recently M. Jobard presented a ‘memoir^ to the French ‘ Academy of Sciences,^ on catalepsy, paralysis, and lethargy, in which he attempts to “ demonstrate ’’ (?) the “ possi- bility of suspending life for an unlimited period, of restoring the drowned to life even after an immersion of two days, and those frozen after ten years.” He also proposes to “ replace the punishment of death by artificial cataleptisation.” A commission has since been charged by the Academy to investigate M. Jobard’s statements. See Charcoal, Cold, Drownino, Hanging, Respiration (Arti- ficial), Sewers-gas, Strangulation, Suffo- cation, &c. ASPHYX'IATED. Syn. Asphtxia'tus, L. ; Asphyxie, Fr. ; Asphyktisch, Scheintodt, &c., Ger. Affected with or labouring under asphyxia. (See above.) ASPTC f. Spike lavender or French laven- der; also the male lavender, spica nardi, or pseudo-nardus of old writers. See AsP- Aspic. In cooJcery, “ savory jelly extracted from the succulence of meat.” (Soyer.) Prep. (Miss Acton.) Calf’s feet, 2 in no.; veal, 4 /i./ ham, ^ lb.; onions, 2 (large); carrots, 3; water, 1 gal.; boil 5 or 6 hours, or until reduced to less than one-half, strain, and when cold, put the jelly into a stew-pan with the whites of 4 eggs well-beaten, a large bunch of savoury herbs, 3 blades of mace (in shreds), a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, and salt, q. s.; keep it well-stirred until pretty hot, then let it gently simmer for about 15 minutes, and, after settling, pass it through a jelly-bag till quite clear. After cooling a little, it is fit for use; or it may be allowed to cool, and be at any time remelted. French cooks com- monly flav^our it with tarragon-vinegar, added after clarification. Uses, 8fc. “ Cold poultry, game, fish, plover’s eggs, truffles, and various dressed vegetables, with many other things often elaborately pre- pared, and highly ornamental, are moulded and served in it, especially at large dejeuners and similar repasts. It is also much used to decorate raised pies, and hams; and for many other purposes.”^ ASS (ass). Syn. As'inus, L. ; Ane (ane), Fr.; Esel, Ger. The e’quus as'inus (Linn.), a well-known animal found almost everywhere. Various parts of the body of this animal were formerly used as medicine and food. The hoof was included in the ‘materia medica’ of the Ph. L. 1716, and was regarded as discu- tient; roasted or calcined, it was employed in epilepsy and hysteria; fiesh, once esteemed a delicacy ; milk (ass'es milk ; lac asini'num, L.; LAIT d’anesse, Fr.), nutritious and easily digestible; preferred by many to all other kinds in atrophy and phthisical affections when the stomach is debilitated; skin, made into shagreen, leather, &c. See Equus, Milk, &c. ASSAFfflT'IDA (-fet'-). [Eng., Fr., It., Port., Sp., & L.; Ph. L., E., & D.] Syn. Assa- fet'ida*, Gum-a.*, Devils’ Dung f§. Food OF THE GODS f; AsSAFCET'IDA GUm'mI*, StER'CUS DlAE'OLlf§, Ci'BUS DEO”RUMt, &c., L.; Stinkasand, Stinkender as and, TEUFELSDRECKf§, Ger. A “gum resin, escaping from the transversely-cut root of nar'thex assafcetida, (of) Falconer” (Ph. L.) ; from narthex assafcetida (Ph. D.); ixovofer’ula assafcetida, and probably from f. Per'sica ” (Ph. E.) ; all of which belong to the nat. ord. IJmbelliferse (DC.). It is imported into Europe from Persia,via Bombay,in cases, mats, and casks. Comp. Assafcetida contains from 4 to 5^ of a peculiar volatile oil, and from 50 to 60^ of resin of a whitish colour, turning rose-red and reddish-brown by exposure to the air, and giving a greenish solution with concentrated sulphuric acid. Brande resolved this resin into two others—one, soluble in ether; the other, insoluble in that menstruum. Pur. The assafcetida of the shops is gener- ally in masses of a whitish, reddish, or violet hue, formed principally of adhering tears or grains, possesses a peculiar foetid, alliaceous odour, and forms an emulsion with water in all proportions. Hot sulphuric acid blackens it and forms a dark blood-red liquid, sulphu- rous fumes being evolved. This solution di- luted with water, and then saturated with potassa, has a blue-colour, which is most visible by reflected light. Digested first in alcohol, and afterwards in weak spirit-and- water, the residuum should not exceed 16^. Sp. gr., 1-325 to 1-330. It is frequently adul- terated with inferior gums, and with chalk, clay, sand, &c. The purest and best is that which is clear, of a more or less pale-red colour, full of white tears, and very foetid. Prop., uses, ^c. Assafcetida is stimulant, antispasmodic, emmenagogue, expectorant, aphrodisiac, and anthelmintic, and is the most powerful of all the foetid gum-resins. It is 1 Miss A.cton’s p. 104. Modern Cookery Longman’s, 1860, I D 'll