799 IRON. the solution crystallized by evaporation. In this state it is very impure. The sulphate of iron employed in medicine is prepared as fol- lows :— Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Sulphuric acid, 1 fl. oz.; water, 4 pints; mix, and add of commercial sulphate of iron, 4 lb.; iron wire, 1 oz.; digest with heat and occasional agitation until the sulphate is dissolved, strain whilst hot, and set aside the liquor that crystals may form; evaporate the mother-liquor for more crystals, and dry the whole. 2. (Ph. E.) Dissolve the transparent green crystals of the impure sulphate of iron in their own weight of water, acidulated with sulphuric acid, and re-crystallize. 3. (Ph.D.) Dissolve pure iron wire in dilute sulphuric acid, and crystallize. The formula of the Ph. U. S. is similar. 4. (Dried; Feeri sulphas exsiccatum —Ph. E., F. S. siCCATUM—Ph. D.) From sulphate of iron, heated in a shallow porcelain or earthen vessel, not glazed with lead, till it becomes a greenish-gray mass, and then re- duced to powder. The heat should be that of “an oven,” or “not exceeding 400° Fahr.” 5 parts of the crystallized sulphate lose very nearly 2 parts by drying. 5. (Granulated; *Feeei sulphas geanu- LATUM, L.) (Ph. D.) A solution of iron wire, 4 oz., in oil of vitriol, 4 fl. oz., diluted with water, 1| pint, after being boiled for a few minutes, is filtered into a vessel containing rectified spirit, 8 fl. oz., and the whole stirred until cold, when the granular crystals are collected on a filter, washed with rectified spirit, 2 fl. oz., and dried, first, by pressure between bibulous paper, and next beneath a bell-glass over sulphuric acid, after which they are put into a stoppered bottle, to pre- serve them from the air. Prop., &fc. Sulphate of iron forms pale bluish-green rhombic prisms, having an acid, styptic taste, and acid reaction; it dissolves in two parts of cold and less than one part of boiling water; at a dull-red heat it suffers decomposition; sp. gr. 1’82. It is “ perfectly soluble in water; a piece of iron put into the solution should not be covered with me- tallic copper.” (Ph. L.) By exposure to the air it effloresces slightly, and is partly converted into sulphate of sesquioxide of iron. Dose. ^ to 4 gr., in pills or solution; externally, as an astringent or styptic. In the arts, sulphate of iron (copperas) is extensively used in dye- ing, and for various other purposes. The dried sulphate (perei sulphus exsiccatum) is chiefly used to make pills. Crude sulphate of iron is frequently con- taminated with the sulphates of copper, zinc, manganese, alumina, magnesia, and lime, which, with the exception of the first, are removed with difficulty. It also contains variable proportions of the neutral and basic sesquisulphates of iron. The preparation ob- tained by direct solution of iron in dilute sul- phuric acid should, therefore, be alone used in medicine. In commerce, there are four varieties of crude sulphate of iron or copperas known,— greenish‘hlue, obtained from acid liquors,— pale green, from neutral liquors,—emerald green, from liquors containing sesquisulphate of iron, —and ochry brown, w'hich arises from age and exposure of the other varieties to the air. Even the first two of these contain traces of sesquisulphate of iron, and hence give a bluish precipitate with ferrocyanide of potassium; whereas the pure protosulphate gives one which is at first nearly white. 2. SesquisuRphate of Iron. Syn. Persul- phate OF IRON, Sulphate of sesquioxide OF IRON; Feeri peesulphas, L. Prep. By adding to a solution of sulphate of iron exactly half as much sulphuric acid as it already con- tains, raising the liquid to the boiling-point, and then dropping in nitric acid, until the liquid ceases to blacken by such addition. The solution evaporated to dryness, furnishes a buff-coloured mass, slowly soluble in water. Prop., Sfc. With the sulphates of ammonia and potassa, it unites to form compounds to which the name ‘ iron alums ’ has been given. It forms the active ingredient in the ‘ LIQUOR oxYSULPHATis FERRi ^ of Mr. Tyson, and is said by Dr. Osborne to be a constituent of ‘Widow Welch’s pills.’ This salt is also formed when protosulphate of iron is calcined with free exposure to the air. Dis- solved in water, it is used as a test for hydro- cyanic, gallic, tannic, and boletic acid. Sulphocy'anide of Iron. Syn. Ferei sul- PHOCTANIDUM, L. By mixing a solution of sulphocyanide of potassium with a neutral solution of persulphate or perchloride of iron. Sul'phurets of Iron. Syn. Sul'phides of IRON. Compounds of sulphur and iron abound in^the mineral kingdom, but those employed in chemistry and pharmacy are commonly produced artificially. 1. Protosul'phuret of Iron. Syn. Sulphueet OF IRON, Sulphide of i.. Protosulphide OF i.; Feeri sulphueetum (Ph. E. & D.), Chaltbs cum sulphure pe^paratus*, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. E. & D.) Expose a bar of iron to a full white heat, and instantly apply a solid mass of sulphur to it, observing to let the melted product fall into water; afterwards separate the sulphuret from the sulphur, dry, and preserve it in a closed vessel. 2. From sublimed sulphur, 4 parts; iron filings, 7 parts; mixed together and heated in a common fire, till the mixture begins to glow, and then removing the crucible from the heat, and covering it up, until the reaction is at an end, and the whole has become cold. 3. (Fownes.) By projecting a mixture of sulphur, 2^ parts, and iron filings, 4 parts, into a red-hot crucible, excluding the air as much as possible. 4. (Hydrated; Ferei peotosulphuee- TUM HYDRATUM, L.) By adding a solution of