NICKEL. 937 ! i itate are for tlie most part yellow ; when hy- drated, green,—and furnish solutions possessing |a pale-green colour. Solutions of its salts [exhibit the following reactions:—1. Caustic lalkalies give a pale apple-green precipitate, insoluble in excess, but soluble in a solution of [carbonate of ammonia, yielding ^greenish-blue [liquid.—2. Ammonia gives a similar precipitate, Isoluble in excess, yielding a deep purplish-blue isolution. The presence of salts of ammonia jor free acids interferes wdth this reaction.—3. [Cyanide of potassium produces a green precipi- \tate, soluble in excess, forming an amber-co- \loured liquid, which is reprecipitated by hy- ! drochloric acid. This last precipitate is scarcely [soluble in excess of the acid in the cold, [but readily so upon boiling the liquid.—4. (Ferrocyanide of potassium gives a greenish- \white precipitate.—5. Sulphuretted hydrogen occasions no change in solutions of nickel con- taining free mineral acid; but in alkaline so- lutions gives a blade precipitate.—6. Hydrosul- phuret of ammonia in neutral solutions gives a black precipitate, soluble with difficulty in hydrochloric acid; hwt freely soluble in aqua regia. Estim. Nickel may be thrown down from its jores in the form of either carbonate or hy- drated oxide (see above and Caebonate op Nickel), and after ignition, may be w^eighed as oxide, each' grain of which is equal to I gr. of PUEE NICKEL; or, more accurately, '7871 gr. According to H. Rose, nickel may be sepa- I rated from cobalt as follows :—The mixed j metals are dissolved in considerable excess of 1 hydrochloric acid, and the solution is diluted 1 with a very large quantity of water ; a cur- j rent of chlorine is then passed through the , liquor for several hours, and the upper part of I the flask is left filled Avith the gas after the I current has ceased; carbonate of baryta is next i added, in excess, the whole digested together, with frequent agitation for 15 or 18 hours, and then thrown on a filter. The^//ra^e yields pure OXIDE OP NICKEL by precipitation Avith caustic potassa; whilst the residuum on the I filter, after being washed in water, dissolved j in hot hydrochloric acid, and the baryta preci- I })itated with sulphuric acid, furnishes, with hy- I drate of potassa, a precipitate of hvdeated I OXIDE OP COBALT, free from nickel, Avhich, Avhen Avashed and dried, is reduced in a plati- num or porcelain crucible by hydrogen gas. See Geeman Silvee. Uses. Nickel is chiefly employed in the I manufacture of Geeman silvee. Some of ; its salts have been recently introduced into I medical practice, and axipear likely to prove I most valuable additions to the materia medica. I (See below.') I Ac'etate of Nickel. aS'^h. Nickeliiacetas, L. Prep. By neutralizing acetic acid with carbonate or oxide of nickel, and gently con- centrating by evaporation, so that crystals may form. Small green crystals, soluble in 6 parts of water. Car'bonate of Nickel. Syn. Nickelii cae- BONAS, L. Prep. This salt may be obtained in the manner described above in connection Avith the preparation of metallic nickel, or by simply adding carbonate of soda to a solution of chloride or sulphate of nickel, but in this case some hydeate op nickel -is precipitated along with it. The following is another for- mula which produces a neaidy pure carbonate, but one which may still contain a little cobalt, the entire separation of which is a matter of extreme difficulty, and can only be effected in the manner recommended by Rose, described above:— The mineral (crude speiss or kupfernickel) is broken into small fragments, mixed Avith from one fourth to one half its weight of iron fil- ings, and the whole dissolved in aqua regia ; the solution is gently evaporated to dryness, the residue treated with boiling water, and the insoluble ‘ arseniate of iron’ removed by filtra- tion; the liquid is next acidulated with hy- drochloric acid, treated Avith sulphuretted hy- drogen, in excess, to precipitate the copper, and, after filtration, is boiled with a little nitric acid, to bring back the iron to the state of sesquioxide; to the cold and largely diluted liquid a solution of bicarbonate of soda is gra- dually added, and the ‘ sesquioxide of iron’ separated by filtration; lastly, the filtered so- lution is boiled with carbonate of soda, in ex- cess, and the pale-green precipitate of caebo- NATE OP NICKEL Collected, Avashed, and dried. Uses, ^c. It is freely soluble in the acids, and is chiefly employed to prepare the salts and other compounds of nickel. Chlo"ride of Nickel. Syn. Mfeiate of NICKEL*; NiCKELII CHLOEIDUM, L. Prep. From carbonate or oxide of nickel and hydro- chloric acid, as the acetate. Small green crystals, Avhich are rendered yellow and anhy- drous by heat, unless they contain cobalt, when the salt retains a tint of green. Ox’alate of Nickel. Syn. Nickelii oxalas, L. Prep. By adding a strong solution of oxalic acid to a like solution of sulphate of nickel, and collecting the pale bluish-green precipitate which forms after a time. Used to prepare both metallic nickel and its oxide. Ox'ides of Nickel. There are two oxides of nickel, but only one of them (peotoxide) acts as a base ;— 1. Protox'ide of Nickel. Syn. Oxide of NICKEL. Prep. 1. By heating the nitrate, carbonate, or oxalate, to redness in open vessels. Anhydrous. 2. By precipitating a soluble salt of nickel Avith caustic potassa. Hydrated. An ash- gray poAvder, freely soluble in acids, forming the ordinary salts of nickel. 3. Sesquiox'ide of Nickel. Syn. Peeoxide OP NICKEL. Prep. By passing chlorine through water holding the hydrated protoxide in sus- pension; or by mixing a salt of nickel with bleaching powder. An insoluble, black powder, Avhich is decomposed by heat.