CHINA—CHLORAL. 430 easy-burning coal, or of anthracite, and those varieties of coal that require a considerable “ draught.” It may even be converted into a wind-furnace; whilst the inconvenience of smoky chimneys may he always avoided, and when existing, easily “cured.” This is pre- suming, however, that a sufficient supply of air exists in front of the fire-place {i. e., in the apartment), not only for the combustion of the fuel, hut also for the upward current of the chimney. Many chimneys smoke simply from the apartment being so ill-ventilated that the supply here alluded to is not pro- vided. It may be further stated, as a rule, that the greater the length of a chimney, the stronger will be the draught. Hence, the chimneys of the upper rooms of a house often smoke, whilst the fires in the rooms beneath them burn pleasantly and vigorously. Such cases are commonly relieved by a chimney-pot or cowl, of which numerous varieties are now before the public. The more crooked or tortuous the course of a chimney, the less likely is it to be affected by eddies and gusts of wind from neighbouring buildings or hills. Before the publication of the investigation of Count Rumford on this subject, smoky chimneys were very common; they are now comparatively rare. See Fiees, Geate, Smoke, Stove. CHI'NA. In the purchase of china, glass, and earthenware, care should be taken to select those patterns which, in case of breakage, can he the most readily matched. Peculiar or rare patterns should be avoided, for if any such be broken, it will generally he found very difficult and expensive, and frequently impossible, to replace them. China, glass, and earthenware, when very dirty, are best cleaned with finely powdered fuller’s earth and warm water, followed by rinsing in clean water. A little clean soft soap may be added to the water instead of fuller’s earth. See Packino, Poecelain. CHIN'OIDINE. See Qtjinoidine. CHIN'OLINE. Syn. Lee'coline. An oily liquid obtained by distilling quinine, cinchonine, or strychnine, with a strong solution of caustic potassa. It is colourless; strongly basic; slightly soluble in water; freely so in alcohol, ether, and volatile oils; reaction neutral; boils at 455° Fahr.; sp. gr. 1*081. It greatly resembles aniline, but is less volatile. With the acids it forms salts which are generally crystallized with difficulty. Chinoline Blue. See Cyanine. CHl'TINE (ki'-tm). This name has been given to the hard, insoluble matter forming the shells and elytra of insects. It is obtained by boiling the elytra of the cockchafer with water, alcohol, ether, acetic acid, and alkalies. CHIT'TICK’S REMEDY. Dr. Chittick’s remedy for stone consisted of a fixed alkali, administered in veal broth. (Paris.) CHLORACE'TIC ACID. Two acids are de- rived from acetic acid by the substitution of chlorine for hydrogen. Monochlorace'tic Acid. Prep. Boiling glacial acetic acid is exposed to the action of chlorine in sunlight. Dr. H. MiiUer finds that the formation of this substitution product is faci- litated by dissolving a little iodine in the acetic acid, and passing a stream of chlorine through the boiling solution. On submitting the pro- duct of this reaction to repeated distillation a substance is obtained boiling at 367° Fahr., and solidifying to a crystalline mass when the temperature is reduced to below 147°. This acid, when heated with potassa, is converted into glycolate of potassa. Trichlorace'tic Acid. Prep. A little glacial acetic acid is introduced into a bottle of dry chlorine, and the whole exposed in the sunshine for several hours. The white crystalline matter which forms on the glass is dissolved out with the smallest possible quantity of water, and the solution added to the liquid decanted from the bottle; the whole is now placed under the air-pump, over capsules con- taining (separately) fragments of dry caustic potassa and strong sulphuric acid; at first, crystals of oxalic acid are deposited, and after- wards trichloracetic acid, in beautiful rhombic crystals; the latter are drained and pressed in bibulous paper, and dried in vacuo. Prop., Sfc. Colourless; deliquescent; faintly odorous ; acrid; bleaches ; powerfully acid ; melts at 115°; boils at 390° Fahr., and vola- tilizes unchanged; vapour highly irritating; the liquid acid destroys the cuticle; with the bases itfoi3jns salts (teichloeacetates) greatly resembling the common acetates. Teichloe- ACETATE OF POTASSA occurs as fibrous, silky needles, permanent in the air. Teichloe- ACETATE OF AMMONIA is crystallizable and neutral. Teichloeacetate of silvee forms small, grayish scales, which are soluble, and easily altered by the light. CHL0”RAL. A peculiar liquid first ob- tained by Liebig, by the action of chlorine on alcohol. Prep. (Liebig.) Anhydrous alcohol \s'f\.dicedi in a tubulated retort, and dry chlorine gas passed through it, at first in the cold, but after- wards with the application of a gentle heat, until the chlorine passes unchanged through the liquor on raising it to the boiling tempe- rature ; on cooling, the whole forms a crystal- line mass of hydrated chloral; this is melted by a gentle heat, and agitated with three times its volume of oil of vitriol; on increasing the heat a little, an oily stratum of impure chloral rises to the surface. It is purified by boiling it for some time (to drive off free hydrochloric acid and alcohol), next distilling it with an equal volume of oil of vitriol; and lastly, rectifying it from some powdered quicklime, the process being stopped as soon as the sur- face of the lime becomes dry. Prop., 8fc. Chloral is an oily liquid, pos- sessing an ethereal smell; it is soluble in alco-