589 ESSENTUL OIL—ETCHING. i (above), Essentia Odoeata, Peeffmeet, !&c. Fruit Essences. See Essences of Apple, Pine-APPLE, Jaegonelle, &c. Essences by Infu'sion. This term, among perfumers, is commonly applied to those es- i sences, eaux, and esprils, Avhich are prepared by digesting the ingredients in the spirit used as the vehicle for the aroma, in opposition to those obtained by ‘ distillation,^ or by ‘ con- tact,’ or ‘pressure.’ Thus, the essences of am- ; BEEGKis, MUSK, and VANILLA, are of this class. Vi'nous Essences. Syn. Essentia vinosa, I L. These are prepared in a similar way to the 1 wines (vina) of the pharmacopoeia, by using 8 i times the usual quantity of ingredients, and the very strongest sherry wine. 1 fl. dr., added to 7 fl. dr. of vjme or water (properly the first only), forms an extemporaneous imitation of the I officinal vina medicata. Some of the above are largely used in dispensing, and by travel- lers. See Liquoe and Wine. j Essentia Bi'na. See Coloueing-. ; Essentia Odora'ta. Prep. 1. Oil of lavender, : 1 dr.; oils of cloves, cassia, and bergamot, of each, 2 dr.; neroli, 20 drops j essence royale, 2 , fl. dr.; rectified spirit, \ pint; mix. i 2. (Redwood.) English oil of lavender, 48 I drops; oil of cloves, 32 drops; oil of orange peel, IG drops j oil of bergamotte and sweet spirit of nitre, of each, 8 drops; oil of yellow sandal-wood, neroli, and otto of roses, of each, 2 1 drops ; oil of cinnamon, 1 drop ; rectified spirit, I and essence of ambergris and musk, of each, 1 oz.; honey water, 8 oz.; mix. Used as a per- fume for the handkerchief, &c. The last form ■ seems unnecessarily complicated and minute. I Essentia Odorif'era. Prep. 1. Grain musk I and balsam of Peru, of each, 10 gr.; civet, 4 gr.; oil of cloves, 5 drops; oil of rhodium, 3 i” drops; salt of tartar (dried by a dull-red i heat and cooled), ^ dr.; rectified spirit (strong- i est), 2^ fl. oz.; macerate for 14 days, and pour : off the clear. I 2. Oil of rhodium and balsam of Peru, of each, ^ dr.; oil of cloves, 1 dr. ; spirit of am- I monia, 2 fl. dr.; essences of civit and vanilla, of I each, 2 fl. oz.; essence of musk, 5 fl. oz.; neroli, oils of lavender, verbena, and cassia, of each, 6 : (b’ops. As last. Roth are very pleasant, : durable, and powerful perfumes for personal I use. ESSENTIAL OIL. See Oil (Volatile). ; ESSENTIAL SALT OF BARK. See Baek I and Exteact. 1 ESSENTIAL SALT OF LEMONS. Syn. Salt OF LEMONS; Sal limonum, L. The pre- ' pa ration sold under this name is made by mixing cream of tartar (bitartrate of potassa) with twice its weight of salt of sorrel (quad- I roxalate of potassa), both in fine powder. It is used to remove fruit stains, &c., from linen, by rubbing a little of it on the part moistened with warm water. It is poisonous, if swallowed in quantity. ETCHING. A species of engraving, in which the design is formed on the plate by the action of an acid, or some other fluid, instead of being cut out by the graver. Proc. In the ordinaey process of etching the plate is covered with ‘ etching ground’ (an acid-resisting varnish), and the design is scratched on the metal through the ground, by means of a pointed tool of steel called the ^etching needle’ or ^point.’ A border of wax is then placed round the plate, and the ‘ biting’ fluid poured on, and allowed to remain till the ‘ lights’ or finest portions of the design are sufficiently ‘ bitten in.’ The etching fluid is then poured off, the plate washed, and the light parts ‘ stopped out’ with Brunswick black or other varnish ; the solvent is again poured on, and allowed to remain until the finest portion of the exposed lines are sufficiently deep, when the acid is again poured off, and the whole process is repeated till the very darkest lines or shadows are sufficiently ‘ bit- ten in.’ The plate is then cleaned, and is ready to be printed from. Occasionally the etched design receives a few finishing touches with the ‘ graver.’ There are several varieties of etching, of which the following are the principal:— Etching with a soft ground, when a coat- ing of lard or tallow is employed, and the design is drawn on a piece of paper, laid evenly on the ground, by which means the fatty matter adheres to the paper, on the parts pressed on by the point or pencil, and the copper beneath becomes exposed, and is then acted on by the acid. The effect resembles that of chalk or pencil drawings.—Stippling, or executing the design in dots instead of lines.—Aquatinta or aquatint, a mode of etching on copper for producing an effect re- sembling a drawing in Indian ink. It is per- formed by sifting powdered asphaltum or lac resin on the plate, previously slightly greased, and, after shaking off the loose powder, gently heating it over a chaffing dish; on cooling, the lights are covered with turpentine varnish coloured with lamp black, by means of a hair pencil, and a rim of wax being placed round the plate, a mixture of ‘ aquafortis’ and water is poured on it, and allowed to remain for 5 or 6 minutes, when it is poured off, the plate dried, and recourse had to the'pencil as before. The process of ‘ stopping’ and ‘ etching’ is repeated again and again, until the darkest shades are produced. Sometimes, instead of using asphaltum, an alcoholic solulioji of shell- lac or gum mastic is poured over the plate, placed in a slanting direction; this varnish forms a film, which, on drying, leaves innu- merable cracks or minute fissures through which the acid acts on the plate. The fine- ness or coarseness of the grain depends en- tirely upon the condition of the powdered asphaltum, or on the quantity of matter dis- solved in the spirit employed to form the ground. The fluids employed for ‘ biting in’ the