WINE. 1341 .1 I Composition. The constituents of wine are —alcohol, which is one of its principal ingre- i| dients, and on which its power of producing 1)1 intoxication depends ; sugar, which has escaped l' the process of fermentation, and which is most lij abundant in the sweet wines, as tokay, tent, il peontignaC, &e.; extractive, derived chiefly tj from the-husk of the grapey'and is extracted || from it by the newly .formed alcohol; tartar, 1 or bitartrate qf'potassa, which constitutes the j most important portion pf the saline miftter of wine; odoriferous matter, imparting ' the characteristic vinous Odour, depending chiefly , upon the presence of cenanthic acid and ether; : bouquet, arising froni essential oil, oT amyl- j compounds, probably existing under the form I of ethers. Besides these, small quantities of t tannin, gum, acetic and malic acid, "‘acetic ether, lime, &c., are found in wine. The specific gravity of wine depends on the richness and ripeness of the grapes used in its manufacture, the nature of the fermentation, and its age. It varies from about *970 to 1’041.‘ That of POET Averages about'975; of sheeey, *978; of CLAEET, '97^; of Madeiea, *976. That of Rhenish wine ranges from '9925 to *9985, and is sometimes as high as 1*0022 to 1*0027. 5 The sp. gr. of some rich samples of mountain, I MALAGA, TENT, and LACHEYMA ChEISTI, is I occasionally so high as 1*039 br 1*040. S Purity. The most frequept species oifraud I in the wine trade is the mixing of wines of i inferior quality with those of a superior grade. j In many cases the inferior kinds of foreign i wine are flavoured and substituted foi* the II more expensive ones. This is commonly |i practised with Cape wine, which, after i having a slight *nuttlness* communicated to it by bitter almonds or peacH kernels, a lus- ciousness of fulness by honey, and additional strength by a little plain spirit or J)ale brandy, is mado to undergo the operation of '■fretting in* and is then sold for ‘sheeey.^ Formerly, it was a cohamon practice of ignorant wine- dealers to add a little litharge or acetate of lead to their inferior wines to correct their acidity, but it is believed that this highly poisonous substance is now never employed in this country, ‘ salt of tartar ’ being made to perform the same duty. The lead which is frequently detected in bottled wine, and which often causes serious indisposition, may be generally traced to shot being carelessly left in the bottles, and not to wilful fraud. Sheeey is commonly coloured, in Spain, by the addi- tion of must boiled down to ^ of its original volume; and in England, by burnt brown sugar, or spirit colouring. Amontillado (a very nutty wine) is frequently added to SHEEEIES deficient in flavour. Various other ingredients, as the essential oil of almonds, bitter almonds in substance, cherry-laurel leaves, cherry-laurel water, &c., are also em- ployed for a like purpose. In Portugal, the juice of elderberries is very commonly added to poet wine to increase its colour, and ex- tract of rhatany for the double purpose of improving its colour and imparting an astrin- gent taste. In England, beet-root, Brazil wood, the juices of elderberries and bilberries, the pressed cake of Uder wins, eictract of log- wood, &c., are frequently added, to port to deepen its colour; and oak sawdust, kino, alum, and extract of rhatany, to increase its astrin- gency. But the most common adulterant of POET WINE, both ih Portugal and this country, is feirupiga,* or ‘ geropiga* a compound of elder juice, brown sugar, grape juice, and crude Portuguese brandy. That imported here contains about 45§ Of proof spifit, and is allowed by the Custom^-house authorities to be mixed with port wine in bond. A fac- titious bouquet is also commonly given to wine by the addition of sweetbriar, orris root, Olary, orange flowers, elder flowers, esprit de petit grain, ^&c. Tests. These, for the most partj are ap- plicable to all fermented liquors:— 1. Richness in alcohol. This may be fotind by any of'the methods noticed under Alcohqlmetey, Poetee, and Tinctuee. The carbonate of potassa test {page 73, g) is easily applied,'and gives good approximate results. The boiling-point, or the ebullioscope, will give the same still more correctly. When greater accuracy is required, the method of M. Gay- Lussac (3, a, page 70) may be adopted with complete success. 2. Sacchaeine and exteactive mattee. The sp. gr. corresponding to the alcoholic strength, last found, is deducted from the real sp. gr. of the sample, the difference di- vided by *0025, or multiplied by 400, gives the weight df solid mattee (chiefly sugar) in ok. per gallon (nearly). 3. Naecotics. These may be detected in the manner noticed at page 1109. 4. Lead. The presence of lead oi* litharge in wine may be re.ad% detected by sulphuretted hydrogen, or a solution of any hydrosulphuret, which will, in that Case, produce a black pre- cipitate. See WiNE-Ti^STS. 5. POTASSA or ^ODA improperly present. A portion of the wine is evaporated nearly to dryness, and then agitated with rectifled spirit; the flltefed tincture, holding in solution ace- tate of potassa, is then divided into two por- tions, one of which is tested for acetic acid, and thO other for the alkali. 6. Alum. A portion of the wine is eva- porated to dryness, and ignited; the residuum is then treated with a small quantity of hydro- chloric acid, the mixture evaporated to dry- ness, again treated with dilute hydrochloric acid, and tested with liquor of potassa. If a white bulky precipitate forms, which is soluble in an excess of caustic potassa, and which is reprecipitated by a solution of sal ammoniac, the sample examined contained alum. 7. Oil of viteiol.—a. A drop or two of the suspected wine may be poured upon a piece of paper, which must then be dried