C.ESIUM—CAFFEINE. 378 water, filter, and evaporate by a gentle heat, so that crystals may form. Prop., 8fc. Efflorescent, rectangular, pris- matic crystals; very soluble in water; tastes astringent. It is about 4 times as strong as sulphate of zinc, and is used in similar cases. Dose. 3 to 10 gr. Externally (| to 3 or 4 gr. to water, 1 oz.); in specks of the eye, opacity of the cornea, chronic ophthalmia, &c. As an ointment, 10 to 12 gr. to lard, 1 oz. Sul'phuret of Cadmium. Syn. Sul'phide OF CADMIUM ; CADMIUM YELLOW. This OCCUrS native as Geeenock'ite. It may be prepared artificially, either by fusing its elements toge- ther, or by passing a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen through a solution of the chloride, nitrate, or sulphate. When prepared artifi- cially, it is of a bright-yellow or orange colour, and is of great value to the artist. It has been used in making fireworks. See Fiees (Coloured). Cadmium Yellow. See Sulphueet of Cadmium {above) and Yellow Pigments. CiE'SIUM. [Eng., L.] A metal belonging to the alkaline group, discovered by Bunsen in the mineral water of Durckheim by means of SPECTEUM ANALYSIS (which see), and so named by him from ccesius, greyish-blue, the colour of its characteristic ray. Prep. It is separated from the mineral waters containing it as a chloroplatinate. To the residue of the evapo- ration of many tons of the Durckheim water bichloride of 2)latinum is added, and the alka- line chloroplatinates which are formed are sub- mitted to successive exhaustions with boiling water until only the comparatively insoluble double salt of C.ESIUM and platinum is left. The metal is nearly always accompanied by EUBIDIUM. CAPFE'IC ACID. Syn. Chloeoge'nic acid. A white powder, discovered by Runge in coffee, in which it exists in combination with potassa {caffeiate of potassa), and caffeine, and is then very soluble in alcohol. Pfaff declares that the aroma of coffee is dependent on the volati- lization, or, rather, the decomposition of this acid. CAFFEINE. Syn. Caffe'ina, TheTne, Guaeanine'. a peculiar nitrogenized prin- ciple, discovered by Robiquet in coffee. It is, moreover, the essential principle of tea, of PAEAGUAY TE4, and of GUAEANA, infusioiis of which are used as beverages in different parts of the world. The proportion of caffeine to the pound was found by Liebig to be as stated below in the six descriptions of coffee named :— Martinique Alexandrian . Java . . . Mocha . . . Cayenne . . St. Dominique 32 grains. 22 22 20 19 16 >> » In Hyson tea it exists in the proportion of from 2-5 to 3-4 per cent.; and in Gunpowder tea from 2‘2 to 4’1. In Paraguay tea, or mate as it is called in Brazil, and in Guarana, it exists in the proportion of *13 per cent. Prep. 1. Coarsely powdered raw or un- roasted coffee, is boiled in water, and subacetate of lead added to the filtered decoction to throw down the extractive and colouring matter; the excess of lead is next precipitated with sulphuretted hydrogen, and the liquid filtered and evaporated by a gentle heat; the residuum is dissolved in boiling water, the solution agi- tated with freshly-burnt animal charcoal, fil- tered, evaporated, and crystallized. By redis- solving the product in hot alcohol, it may bo obtained in white, shining, silky filaments, as the solution cools. 2. (H. J. Versman.) Quicklime, 2 lb.; water, q. s. to form a hydrate; raw coffee (bruised), 10 lb.; mix, put it into a displace- ment apparatus, and cause alcohol of 80g to percolate through the mixture, until the fluid obtained no longer contains caffeine; the mass in the percolator is then roughly ground to powder, mixed with a fresh quantity of quicklime, and the process of percolation re- peated with fresh alcohol, as before. The spirit is next distilled from the mixed tinc- tures in a retort, and the residuum washed with a little warm water to remove the oil; the evaporation is then gently conducted until a crystalline mass is obtained, which is further freed from adhering oil by pressure between folds of blotting paper. It is purified by re- dissolving it in boiling water or hot alcohol, &c., as before. 3. (A. Vogel.) An extract of powdered coffee is made with commercial benzole ; this being distilled off, leaves an oil and caffeine behind; the oil is then removed by a little ether or by hot water, from which latter liquid the alkaloid crystallizes on cooling. 4. From a hot infusion of tea-leaves by treatment with subacetate of lead and sulphu- retted hydrogen, as in process 1 {above). Prop., 8cc. Soluble in 100 parts of cold water; freely soluble in hot water and in water acidulated with an acid; slightly soluble in cold alcohol; it fuses at 352° Fahr., tastes slightly bitter, and possesses feeble basic pro- perties. With the sulphuric and hydrochloric acids it forms crystallizable compounds. The salts of caffeine may be made by dissolving it, to saturation, in the dilute acid, and evapo- rating the solution by a very gentle heat. It forms splendid double salts with bichloride of platinum and terchloride of gold. Uses. Caffeine has been recommended in those pains that affect only one side of the head {hemicrania); in doses of 1 to 3 gr. Its phy- siological action is very trifling, notwithstand- ing all that has been said to the contrary. Mr. Cooley took 20 gr. daily, of pure caffeine, for above a month, without experiencing any other effect than a very slight elevation of spirits after each dose, similar to that produced by a small quantity of spirits of sal volatile. It has been used lately with doubtful success