LIME. 836 cliloric acid present is saturated, carefully avoiding excess, as oxide of chromium would be then precipitated; after an hour’s repose the clear portion is decanted, and finely slaked lime added, with constant agitation, until all the oxide is thrown down; known by the liquor becoming clear when allowed to settle; after sulficient repose, the liquid portion is | decanted, the precipitate is washed with clean ! water, and drained; the residual mixture of | oxide of chromium and lime is then placed 1 about 2 inches thick upon a large flat iron plate set evenly over a fire, and turned every half hour until the process of roasting is completed, and the whole is converted into chromate of lime, which is known by the mass assuming a yellow colour, instead of the grayish one which it previously possessed; during the operation, care must be taken not to employ too much heat, as the product is readily decomposed, and assumes a green colour, in which case it is rendered useless. See Chromic Acid. Hy'drate of Lime. See above. Hydrochlo"rate of Lime. See Calcium Chloride). Hypochlo"rite of Lime. Syn. Bleachi^^g POWDER, Chlorinated lime, Chloride of L.J; Calcis htpochloris, Calx CHLORI- NATA (Ph. L. & E.), L. The precise constitu- tion of this compound is still undetermined, but it is now generally conceived that its cha- racteristic properties, as well as those of the corresponding preparations of potassa and soda, depend on the presence of hypochlorous acid, a substance as remarkable for its j bleaching powers and chemical activity as 1 chlorine itself. ^ j Pr^. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Hydrate of lime is thinly spread out in a proper vessel and ’ exposed to an atmosphere of chlorine gas until it is saturated. In the present Ph. L. it is included in the Materia Medica. 2. (M. Labarraque.) Hydrate of lime (fresh), 20 parts, common salt, 1 part, are mixed together, and the powder placed in long ear- thenware vessels into which chlorine is passed until the mixture begins to grow damp, or until one part of it, dissolved in 130 parts of water, is capable of decolouring 4^ parts of sulphate of indigo, when the whole is trans- ferred to dry bottles. 3. (WTiolesale.) The chlorine is generated from the usual materials mixed in leaden vessels, heated by steam, and the gas, after passing through water, is conveyed by a leaden tube into an apartment built of siliceous sand- stone, and arranged with shelves or trays, con- taining dry fresh slaked lime, placed one above another, about an inch asunder. The process, to produce a first-class article, is continued for 4 or 5 days. During this time the lime is occasionally agitated by means of iron rakes, the handles of which pass through boxes of lime placed in the walls of the chamber, which thus act as valves. Prop., “ It is soluble in dilute hydro- chloric acid, emitting chloidne.” (Ph: L.) “ Pale grayish white; dry; 50 gr. are nearly all soluble in 2 fl. oz. of water, forming a solu- tion of the density of 1’027, and of which 100 measures, treated with an excess of oxalic acid, give off much chlorine, and if then boiled, and allowed to rest for 24 hours, yield a precipitate which occupies 19 measures of the liquid.” (Ph. E.) Good chloride of lime contains, on the average, from 32g to 36g by weight of chlorine, of which, however, not more than 252 to 30g are available or capable of being easily liberated by an acid. Tests. It is recognised by the above pro- perties, and by its power of destroying vege- table colours. When heated, it evolves oxygen gas, together with a little clilorine. Estim. See Chlorometry. Uses. Chloride of lime is employed in medi- cine as an antiseptic and disinfectant. An ointment of chloride of lime has been used in ‘scrofula,’ and a lotion or bath, moderately dilute, is one of the cleanest and readiest ways of removing the ‘ itch,’ and several other skm diseases. As a disinfectant, it may be used either in substance or solution. A small quantity of the powder spread on a flat dish or plate, and placed on the chimney-piece, and a like quantity in an opposite part of the room, udll continue to evolve sufficent chlo- rine or hypochlorous acid to disinfect the air of an apartment for several days. The evolu- tion of chlorine is promoted by occasionally renewing the exposed surface, hy stirring it with a piece of stick, and, after it becomes scentless, by the addition of a little acid, as strong vinegar, or hydrochloric acid, or oil of vitriol, largely diluted with water. The most extensive consumption of chloride of lime is, however, for bleaching textile fabrics. When employed for this purpose, the goods are first immersed in a dilute solution of this compound, and then transferred to a vat containing dilute sulphuric acid. The chlorine thus disengaged in contact with the cloth, causes the destruc- tion of the colouring matter. This process is generally repeated several times, it being un- safe to use strong solutions. White patterns may thus be imprinted upon coloured cloth; the figures being stamped with tartaric acid thickened with gum water, the stuff is im- mersed in the chloride bath, when the parts to which no acid has been applied remain unaltered, while the printed portions arc bleached white. Concluding remarks.—Chloride of lime is now scarcely ever made on the small scale, as it can bepurchasedof the large manufacturer of better quality and cheaper than it could possibly be made by the druggist. Berzelius and Balard, the two best authorities on the subject, regard this substance as consisting of hypochlorite of lime, chloride of calcium, and water. The only secret in the manufacture of good bleaching powder is maintaining the temperature of the ingredients rather low.