EPIPASTICS—EQUIVALENTS. 567 i felted by street impostors in order to excite I the charity of the passers-by. : EPIPAS'TICS. See Blister and Vesi- cant. EP'ITHEM. Syn. Epithema, L. Any external liquid medicine for local application j I as an embrocation or lotion. Some writers ' confine the term to those preparations which , are intended to be applied by means of a cloth I dipped into them. See Liniment, Lotion, I &c. j Astrin"gent Epithem. Syn. Epithema a- ' STEINGENS, L. Prep. 1. Powdered ice, 7 dr.; 1 powdered catechu, 1 dr.; mix. I 2. (Brera.) Powdered bole and rhatany, of I each, 1 oz.; vinegar of rosc9, q. s. to form a I paste. Both are applied to the nostrils and : forehead to stop bleeding at the nose, j Gly^cerine Epithem. Syn. Epithema gly- CERINJE, L. Prep. (Mr. Startin.) Glycerine, I 1 oz.; rose water and lime water, of each, 3 or I 4 fl. oz.; powdered gum tragacanth, q. s. to i form a thin mucilage. In scalds, burns, and excoriations. Vesica'ting Epithem. Syn. Epithema VESICATORIUM, L. Prep. (Alibert.) Rye or barley meal, made into a paste with vinegar, and 30 to 40 gr. or more of powdered Spanish flies sprinkled over the surface. 2. (Ph. L. 1746.) Spanish flies (in fine j powder) and wheat flour, equal parts, made into a paste with vinegar, q. s. As a blister. I Vol'atile Epithem. Syn. Epithema vo- I latile, E. AMMONIA), L. Prep. (Pb. L. 1764.) I Common turpentine and water of ammonia, I equal parts. An excellent counter-irritant; I either with or without the addition of a little I olive oil. f EQUISE'TIC ACID. In chemistry, a sub- ■ stance identical with aconitic acid (which see'). EQUIV'ALENTS. Syn. Proportional ! NUMBERS, Atomic weights. Combining w., ! Equivalent w. In chemistry, numbers ex- i pressing the definite proportions in which sub- ' stances combine with each other. According to the ATOMIC theory,’ these numbers express the relative weights of the atoms of the com- bining substances. As the relative quantity I of hydrogen that can enter into a combi- t nation proves to be less than that of any other I element, its combining proportion is generally I taken as the standard of comparison, or unity. I Berzelius, however, selected the combining ' weight of oxygen as the standard of com- parison, and his equivalents were adopted 1 until within the last twenty years by conti- I neutal chemists in general. The equivalent of ' oxygen was fixed at 100, and those of the other elements estimated in accordance there- ' with; but the simpler numbers, by which I most of the ratios are expressed on the hydro- I gen scale of the British chemists, have even- , tually secured for it the preference. The ' doctrine of combination in deflnite and mul- ; 1 Seepa^r^343. tiple proportions,^ teaches us that the elements combine with one another only in the ratios indicated by their equivalent numbers, or by multiples of those numbers. Thus, there are two combinations of chlorine and mercury, namely, ‘ corrosive sublimate' and ‘ calomel. In the former the ratio of the chlorine to the mercury is as 35*5 to 100; in the latter, as 35*5 to twice 100; the equivalents of chlorine and mercury being 35*5 and 100 respectively. The equivalent of a compound body is equal to the sum of the equivalents of its elements. Thus, HVDROCHLOEic ACID is composed of 1 part by weight of hydrogen and 35*5 parts by weight of chlorine, and its equivalent is the sum of these quantities (1-1-35-5 = 36*5). The equivalents or combining weights of bodies are determined by the rigid and exact analysis of their compounds, as well as by the production of the latter by synthesis. The consideration of the subject belongs, however, to pure chemistry. A knowledge of the equivalents of bodies, both simple and compound, is invaluable to the che- mist and manufacturer. Without this know- ledge we cannot determine with certainty the proper propoitions to employ to effect a given object,or to produce a given article; whilst by it we can discover whether our processes are econo- mically conducted, and the greatest possible product obtained from any given weight of materials. See Aeeinity, Atomic Theory, Combination, Decomposition, and the Table OP Equivalents {below). Gerhardt’s Equivalents. In the system of chemical notation (unitary system) proposed by M. Charles Gerhardt in 1848,3 and now adopted, with certain modifications, by many of our leading chemists, the combining numbers, as in older scheme, are referred to that of hydrogen as unity. The equivalents of the elements oxygen, sulphur, selenium, tel- lurium, carbon, silicon, titanium, and TIN, differ from those of the ordinary system, being doubled, or, in the case of silicon, muU tiplied by §. The new numbers are chiefly founded on the consideration of the propor- tions in which the gaseous and gasifiable ele- ments combine by volume. Gerhardt assumes that equal volumes of the elementary gases and vapours, when compared under similar condu Hons of temperature and pressure, contain the same number of atoms. If this hypothesis be true, it is obvious that the relative weights of the atoms, or, in other words, the proportional numbers, must be represented by the specifle gravities of the elementary gases and vapours referred to hydrogen as unity. The truth of this hypothesis is borne out by the fact that * See page 470. 3 For a clear exposition of the unitary system, which will doubtless be generally adopted after a while, the reader is referred to Dr. Odling’s ''Manual of Che- mistry.” The Appendix to the 9th edit, of Fornies* “ Mamial,” and the principal articles in Watts’ "Dictionary of Chemistry” may also be consulted. Other sources of information are indicated in a foot-note on $age 844.