1088 PIMARIC ACID—PIPERINE. obstinate rheumatic aftections, in foulness of the stomach and bowels, &c. Their action is often of a very unjDleasant character/’ (‘ Anat. of Quackery/) Lady Webster’s Pills. See Dinner Pills. Whitehead’s Essence of Mustard Pills. Bal- sam of tola, with resin. (Dr. Paris.) Whytt’s Pills. Prep. (Radius.) Aloes, chloride of iron, and extract of horehound, of each, ^ dr.; asafoetida,\\ ^t. For 2-gr. pills. Dose. 2 to 5, thrice daily; in leucorrhoea, chlorosis, hysteria, &c., with constipation.) Worm Pills. Syn. Pilule anthelmin- TIC-E, P. VEEMIEUG.E, L. Prep. 1. Calomel, 1 oz. j sugar, 1| oz.; mucilage, q. s.; mix, and divide into 240 pills. Dose. 1 to 2, over- night, followed by a strong dose of castor oil early the next morning. 2. Gamboge, 6 gr.; calomel, 5 gr.; mucilage, q. s.; divide into 3 pills. For a morning’s dose, fasting. 3. Extract of wormwood, calomel, and pow- dered scammony, equal parts. For 4-gr. pills. Dose. 2 to 1, as the last. For ascarides, and other small worms. 4. (Bresmer.) Powdered aloes and tansy seed, of each, ^ dr.; oil of rue, 9 or 10 drops. For 12 pills. Dose. 3 to 6, in the morning, fasting, and repeated in two or three hours. 5. (Phoebus.) Iron filings, | dr.; asafcetida, 1^ dr.j essential oil of tansy, 10 or 12 drops; extract of wormwood, q. s.; mix, and divide into 80 pills. Dose. 6 pills, thrice daily. 6. (Peschier.) Ethereal extract of male fern, 30 drops; extract of dandelion, 1 dr.; powdered rhizomes of male fern, q. s. to mix. For 30 pills. In tape-worm. Dose. 6 to 15, at bedtime; the dose being repeated in the morning, and then followed in an hour by a strong dose of castor oil. Worsdell’s Pills (Kaye’s). Prep. (Cooley.) Powdered aloes, gamboge, and ginger, equal parts; together with a very small quantity of diaphoretic antimony, beaten into a mass with either syrup or treacle, and divided into 2^-gr. pills. “ There are about 4^ dozen pills in each \s. l^c?. box.” “ The dose, as given in the directions, is from 2 to 8 pills (or even 10 to 12) daily.” (‘ Anat. of Quackery.’) They frequently operate with great violence. Wyndham’s Pills (Lee’s). Prep. (Cooley.) Aloes and gamboge, of each (in powder), 3 oz.; Castile soap and extract of cow-parsnip, of each, 1 oz.; nitre, i oz. For 5-gr. pills. A powerful drastic cathartic. Dose. 1 to 3 pills. Pills of Zinc. See Pills of Oxide, Sul- phate, and Valerianate of Zinc, &c. PIMAR'IC ACID. A resin acid first ob- tained by Laurent from the turpentine of Pinus maritima (Bordeaux turpentine), by the action of hot alcohol. PIME'LIC ACID. One of the products of the action of nitric acid o\\ fatty bodies. PIMEN'TO. Syn. Allspice, Clove pepper, Jamaica p., Pimento perries ; Pimenta (Ph. L. E. & D.), Piper caryophyllatu P. Jamaicense, P. odoratum, Pimeni BACC.E, L. “ The immature fruit of E genia pimenta (Myrtus pimenta, Linn.y^—F L. It possesses a mixed odour of cinnamc cloves, and nutmegs, which, with its oth properties, it for the most yields to alcohc ether, and water. It is stimulant and ton and is much esteemed as an adjuvant in m dicines prescribed in dyspepsia, flatulem gout, hysteria, &c.; and also to cover tlj taste of disagreeable medicines. Dose. 5 30 gr., bruised or in powder. See Essenc; Oils (Volatile), Spirits, and Waters. PIM'PLES. See Eruptions (Papular). PINCH'BECK. A gold-like alloy of copp and zinc. See Dutch Gold {page 707). PINE APPLE. Syn. Ananas. The fruit Ananassa sativa,’?L plant of the natural ord Bromeliacece. It is astringent, esculent, af possesses a rich flavour and odour. In Euro; it is chiefly used as a delicacy for the tabl but in tropical climates it is said to be valual in renal diseases. See Essence, &c. PI'NEY TAL'LOW. Syn. Piney resin, DAMMAR. An oleo-resinous substance obtaini from ihefrxtit of Vateria indica, a tree comint in Malabar, by boiling it with water. It intermediate between fat and wax, makes got ’soap and excellent candles. It melts at 9 Fahr. Sp. gr. *9250 to *9265. PI'NIC ACID. The portion of common res or colophony which is soluble in cold alcohol sp. gr. *833. PINK. A well-known shade of light re The name is also applied to several pigment consisting of whiting stained with liquid dyt\ See Red and Yellow Pigments, &c. „■ PINK DYE. Prep. From washed saffiowr 2 oz. / salt of tartar, ^ oz. / cold water, quart; digest for 3 hours, express the liquo and strain it. Used as a cosmetic, and to dv silk stockings, &c., of a rose colour. T1 colour is brought out by afterwards applyiii to, or passing the articles through, waU soured with lemon juice. See Saucers (Pink PIP'ERINE. Syn. Piperina, Piperinui L. Prep. (P. Cod.) Alcoholic extract i black pepper is treated with a weak solution ( caustic potassa (1 to 100), and the residuun after being washed with cold water, is dissolve in alcohol; the solution is next agitated wit a little animal charcoal, and the filtrate is a lowed to evaporate spontaneously; the produi may be purified by re-solution in alcohol, an re-crystallization. Prop., Colourless, or only slightly ye low; tasteless; inodorous; fusible; and cry; tallizable; insoluble in water; freely soluble in strong spirit, and in the acids; very feeblj basic; (a few definite compounds have, how ever, been obtained with difficulty ;) reddene by oil of vitriol. It has been much employe in Italy and on the Continent as a febrifuge Dose. 2 to 10 gr., frequently repeated, durin the apyrexia of intermittents.