I 213 ARSENIC. I slowly evaporated or distilled oif, when crystals of pure TEiiiODiDE OF AESENic are obtained, j Prop., 8fc. A deep orange-red, crystallisable ! solid; soluble in water, and highly volatile and i poisonous. Its aqueous solution yields the i iodine unchanged by rapid evaporation, but when slowly concentrated and set aside, white I pearly plates {arsenite of teriodide of arsenic,) j are obtained, consisting of arsenious acid and { the teriodide. (Serullas; Hottot.) As a medi- cine, it combines the properties of both arseni- I ous acid and iodine, but its use requires great j caution. It has been successfully employed ! by Dr. A. T. Thomson, Biett, and others, in obstinate skin diseases {lepra, impetigo, herpes, lupus, psoriasis, ^'‘c.), and in real or simulated cancer.—Pose. -j‘g to gr. (in pills or solution), j gradually increased to ^ or even ^ gr. (A. T. Thomson.) Externally, 2^ gr., to lard 1 oz. ; of which 1 dr. may he used at a time. (Biett.) 2. Superi'odide of Arsenic. Syn. Aesen'ici j Superiodi'dum, L. loduretted teriodide of I arsenic. It does not appear to be a definite : compound. See Wackeneodee’s Solution, &c. j Ox'ides of Arsenic. The only definite com- 1 pounds of arsenic with oxygen are arsenious \ acid and arsenic acid. The so-called sub-oxide is noticed under aesenic and fly-powdee. i Sul'phurets of Arsenic. Seven combinations I of sulphur and arsenic are noticed by Gmelin j but only three of these are distinct com- pounds ;— [ 1. BisuTphuret of Arsenic. Syn. Sul'peide I OF AESENIC, BiSUL'PHIDE OF A., ReD SUL'- I phueet of a., Peotosul'phueet of a.. Red i A., R. oe'piment*, Real'gae, Ruby sul- ; piiuEf, &c.; AesenTci bisulphuee'tum, a. I sulphuee'tum eu'beum, a. peotosulphuee'- TUM, AeSEN'ICUM eu'beum, &C., L.; ReAL- IOAE, Realgal, Aesenic eouge sulfuee, I Oepin eouge, &c., Fr.; Rothes schwefel- i AESENIK, &c., Ger. This substance is found native at Solfaterra, near Naples, and in several other volcanic districts; but that of commerce \ is often prepared by distilling arsenical pyrites, ' or a mixture of sulphur and white arsenic, &c., I in the proper proportions, as noticed under i EEALGAE and EED PIGMENTS. ' Prop., d^c. A fusible, volatile substance; ! scarlet or ruby-red in mass, but orange-red in i powder, by which it is distinguished from cin- ' nabar; crystals, oblique rhombic prisms. Sp. gr., 3‘3 to 3’6. It consists of 70g of arsenic, and 30g of sulphur. (Ure.) Its chi^ use is as a pigment, and in pyrotechny to make white- fire. The factitious sulphuret has not the rich colour of the native mineral, whilst it is much more poisonous. It is improved by resubli- mation. Obs. Realgar was employed by the Greeks ]as a medicine, and continued in use till after the time of Paracelsus; but it has long ceased Ito be employed as a remedy in this country. It was the substance said to have been used by Mrs. Burdock to destroy Mrs. Smith, in I 1 “ Ilandb. d. Cliimie.” \ the celebrated Bristol case of poisoning (1835); when it was found in the body of the victim, after the latter had been buried upwards of fourteen months.^ See Aesenic (above). 2. Tersul'phuret of Arsenic. Syn. Tee- sul'phide of aesenic, Yellow sul'phueet OF A., Sesquisul'phueet of a.. Yellow a., Sulphaese"nious acid, Oe'piment, King’s yel'low, &c. ; Aesen'ici teesulphuee'tum, A. sesquisulphuee'tum, a. sulphuee'tum fla'vum, Aesen'icum f., Oepimen'tum, Au- EIPIGMEN'TUMf, &C., L. ; OePIMENT, SuL- FUEE JAUNE D’AESENIC, &C., Fr.; AuEIPIG- MENT, Opeement, Rauschgelb, Ger. This sulphuret, like the last, is found ready formed in nature; and is prepared artificially, by sub- limation, from a mixture of arsenious acid and sulphur, as noticed under oepiment and YELLOW PIGMENTS. It also falls as a precipi- tate when a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen gas is passed through a solution of arsenious acid or of an m'senite. Prop., ^c. Golden-yellow crystalline lumps, or a fine golden-yellow powder; crystals, right rhombic prisms; volatile; fusible; very solu- ble in pure alkalies, by which it is distin- guished from sulphuret of cadmium; and from tersulphuret of antimony by being insoluble in hydrochloric acid. It consists of arsenic, 61g; sulphur, 39g. The factitious sulphuret (king’s yellow) of the shops often contains 80 to 90g of white arsenic; and is, therefore, much more poisonous than the native tersulphuret. Sp. gr., (native) 3*44 to 3-60. Use, <^c. As a dye, as a pigment, and as an ingredient in fireworks, and in some depilato- ries. Silk, woollen, or cotton goods soaked in a solution of pure orpiment in ammonia, and then suspended in a warm apartment or stove- room, rapidly lose their ammonia, and be- come permanently dyed of a superb yellow- colour. The native sulphurets (both red and yellow) are much less soluble, and hence, less poisonous, than those prepared artificially. They also possess the richest colour; and are, therefore, preferred by artists and dyers. In former times, orpiment, like realgar, was em- ployed in medicine. See Aesenic (above). 3. Pentasul'phuret of Arsenic. Syn. Pen- tasul'phide of aesenic, Peesul'phueet of A., SULPHAESEN'IC ACID, &C.; AeSEN'iCI PEN- tasulphuee'tum, &c., L. When a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen is transmitted for some time through a solution of arsenic acid, a precipitate of the pentasulphueet is de- posited after some hours’ repose. Its forma- tion is accelerated by boiling the liquid. Prop., ^c. It greatly resembles the tersul- phuret in its appearance and general proper- ties. *** niodern chemists the above three sulphurets of arsenic are regarded as sulphur- acids. ® See "Lond. Med. Gat.," vol. xv. & xvi,; alpo TayVir " On Poiscns," 2iid ed., 193, 891, &c.