SALE?—SALICYLOUS ACID. 1181 h d eggs, cut into slices, and a few slices of c umber/* “ To vary this, a few capers and 8 le fillets of anchovy may be added, stirred fitly, and then served, either with or with- c some salad sauce. If for a dinner, orna- h it it with some flowers of the nasturtium a. marigold/' |;AL'EP. Syn. Salop, Saloop. The tu- bous roots of Orchis mascula, and other a'3d species, washed, dried, and afterwards riuced to coarse powder. That imported fin Persia and Asia Minor occurs in small o'l grains, of a whitish-yellow colour, often s itranslucent, with a faint, peculiar smell, a. a taste somewhat resembling gum traga- cth. It consists, chiefly, of bassorin and s\;ch, is very nutritious, and is reputed aphro- d ac. It is employed in the same way as b'o. a decoction of about 1 oz. of this sub- s ice in a pint of water was formerly sold at spet-stalls. A tea made of sassafras chips, t cured with milk and coarse brown sugar or tncle, was also sold in the same way, and viler the same name. ’bench salep is prepared from the potato. I Ure says that the Orchis mascula of our Cl country, properly treated, would afford alarticle of salep equal to the Turkey, and at a astly lower price. lALTCIN. A white, crystalline substance, cjovered by Le Roux and Buchner, in the I k and leaves of several species of Salix and iiiM/ws. It occurs most abundantly in the V|ite willow {Salix alba) and the aspen {Salix / a;), but is also found in all the bitter pop- II) and willows. From willow bark which is t'ih, and rich in salicin, it may be obtained Vthe cautious evaporation of the cold aqueous i'lsion. \^rep. 1. (Merck.) Exhaust willow bark by I'eated coction with water, concentrate the liquors, and, while boiling, add litharge if.il the liquid is nearly decoloured; filter, ijiove the dissolved oxide of lead, first by iuhuric acid, and afterwards by sulphuret of Mum; filter, and evaporate, that crystals ly form j the crystals must be purified by I'solution and recrystallization. i5. As No. 1, but using a stream of sulphu- i\ted hydrogen, to free the solution from lead, t. (P. Cod.) To a strong filtered decoction (\mllow bark add milk of lime, to throw down t! colour; filter, evaporate the liquor to a >jupy consistence, add alcohol (sp. gr. ’847), tjjeparate the gummy matter, filter, distil off tj spirit, evaporate the residuum, and set it i le in a cool place to crystallize; the crys- < 5 are purified by solution in boiling water, itation with a little animal charcoal, and 1 rjstallization. ^Prop., Sfc. Salicin forms white, silky needles tl plates; it is intensely bitter; inodorous; ifitral; non-basic; fuses at 230° Fahr., with < oinposition; burns with a bright flame; is ‘able in 5^ parts of water at 60°, and in 1 ch less at 212°; dissolves readily in alcohol; but is insoluble in ether. It is tonic and febri- fuge, and has been given in dyspepsia, inter- mittents, and other diseases in which quinine is commonly administered; but it has not ful- filled the early expectations respecting it. Dose. 3 to 30 gr. Pur. 8f tests.—1. It is entirely soluble in water and rectified spirit.—2. When strongly heated, it is wholly dissipated, and, if kindled, burns with a bright flame, leaving a bulky charcoal.—3. Its solution is absolutely neutral to test paper.—4. Concentrated sulphuric acid causes it to agglutinate into resin-like lumps, with the accession of an intense blood-red colour.—5. When its aqueous solution is mixed with some hydrochloric acid, or dilute sul- phuric acid, and the mixture is boiled for a short time, the liquid suddenly becomes turbid, and deposits salieetin, under the form of a granular crystalline precipitate. This is cha- racteristic.—6. No reagent deposits salicin without decomposition. See Salycylic and Salycylohs Acids. SALTCYL. Syn. SALicULEf. A compound salt-radical, forming the basis of the so-called SALICYL-COMPOUNDS, or SALICYL'SEEIES. It is known only in combination. The volatile oil of meadow-sweet is a natural hydride or hydruret of salicyl, a substance which, when artificially prepared, is better known under the name of salycylous acid. (See below.) SALICYLIC ACID. Syn. Saliculic ACiDf. A peculiar volatile, crystallizable acid, dis- covered by Piria. It is obtained by fusing salicylous acid wfith solid hydrate of potassa in slight excess, until the mixture turns w'hite and gas is disengaged, and treating a solution of the residuum with hydrochloric acid, in slight excess, to separate the potassa; the salicylic acid separates in crystals, which are purified by solution in hot water. It may also be obtained from the oil of partridge-berry {Gaultheria procumbens), by acting on it with a strong and hot solution of potassa, and after- wards separating the acid as before. This oil is ‘ methylo-salicylic ether,' or ‘ salicylate of oxide of methyl/ (See page 982.) In its general properties, salicylic acid closely resembles ben- zoic acid. SALICYL'OUS ACID. Syn. Hydeosali- CYLIC ACIDf, HYDEIDE OF SALICYL, ARTIFI- CIAL OIL OF MEADOW-SWEET. A nearly colour- less, oily, inflammable liquid, discovered by Pagenstecher in the volatile oil of Spiraea ulmaria {meadow-sweet), which, when pure, entirely consists of it; and by Piria, as a pro- duct of the decomposition of salicin. Prep. 1. The oil of meadow-sweet is mixed with a strong solution of caustic potassa, and the yellow crystalline mass which separates on agitation is purified by pressure between folds of bibulous paper and recrystallization from alcohol; the resulting crystals (salicylite of potassium) are then decomposed by the addi- tion of dilute sulphuric acid, the floating oil separated from the water, and freed from