142 AMMONIA. Atoms. Equiv. weiglit. I’er cent. R. Pliiilip^ i. Ere. Tlieovv. Carbonic Acid , 3 . .. 66 ... 51-2 ... 54-5 ... 55 93 Ammonia 2 .. 34 ... 29-3 ... 30-5 ... 28-81 Water 2 .. 18 16‘5 ... 15-0 ... 15-26 Hydrated Sesquicarbonate of Ammonia . 1 . .. 118 ... 100- ... 100- ... 100- The composition of the re-sublimed salt, as given by llu ise, is— Atoms. Equiv. wci^lit Per ccut. Rose. Tlieorv. Carbonic Acid . 5 ... 110 ... 51- ... 51'40 Ammonia . 4 ... 68 ... 31* ... 31-78 Water . 4 ... 36 ... 18* ... 16-82 j Carbonate of Ammonia . 1 ... 214 ... 100- ... 100- Tests. It is recognised as an ammouiacal salt by its odour, its fugacious action on tur- meric paper, &c. (See Ammonia.) It is dis- tinguished from the monocarhonate by its less pungency, and by its solution, after yielding a ichite precipitate with chloride of barium, giving a farther precipitate with pure liquor of ammonia. Estim. See Ammonia, Ammonimetkt, Ac. Pur. The commercial salt is sometimes con- taminated with volatile empyreumatic matter, particularly oil, which may be recognised by its aqueous solution being sUghtlg discoloured. It also, sometimes, contains chloride of ammo- nium, and sulphate, hydrosulphate, and hypo- sulphate of ammonia, which may be detected by the usual tests for hydrochloric acid, sul- phuric acid, &c. When pure it is “ free from colour, transparent, of an acrid smell and taste; it changes the colour of turmeric brown; is (entirely) dissipated by heat, and is (entirely) dissolved by water. Nitric acid being added to saturation, nothing is thrown down by either nitrate of silver or chloride of barium.” (Ph. L. 1851.) If its neutral solu- tion in weak acetic acid, gives with nitrate of silver a white precipitate afterwards turning black, it contains ‘ hyposulphite of ammonia if a like solution in dilute nitric acid gives a black precipitate, or a dark coloration, with sulphuretted hydrogen, it contains lead, pro- bably derived from the leaden receivers used in its manufacture. Uses, Sfc. It is commonly employed by bakers to give ‘ lightness ’ to their ‘ fancy goods,’ and to make extemporaneous bread and pastry; by the chemist and pharmaceutist, for the preparation of other salts of ammonia, and in analysis, &c. In medicine, it is used as a stimulant, antispasmodic, antacid, and dia- phoretic, in aciditg of the stomach, dyspeptic affections, gout, scrofula, hysteria, lowness of spirits, epilepsy, ^c. ,• and in the convulsions attending dentition. It has been recently recommended, by Dr. Barlow, in diabetes. It is also employed to make ‘ effervescing draughts and externally, as a counter-irritant and stimulant. Its use as a nasal stimulant in headaches, fainting, Ac., is well knowm. In large doses, it is emetic; in excessive doses, poisonous. Its long-continued use, in quantity, is often productive of very serious consequences —slow fever, debility, emaciation, scurvy, loss of teeth, haemorrhage, general cachexy, and even death. The antidotes and restorative treatment are, the free use of lemon-juice, w'Ine or malt-liquors, new milk, and antiscorbutic vegetables, wdth a generous diet—of which the red-meats form a large proportion. Dose. As a stimulant or diaphoretic, 5 to 15 gr., dis- solved in cold water; as an emetic, 20 to 30 gr., in tepid water, repeated if necessary; a< an effervescing saline-draught, 15 to 20 gr. A few grains (8 or 10) dissolved in a tumbler « of cold water, is an excellent ‘refresher’ in lowmess of spirits, or after fatigue ,• and is highly esteemed by drunkards; being, in each case, preferable to ‘ spirit of sal volatile.’ Concluding Remarks, Patents, ^c. In exten- sion of the above, it may be added, that on the large scale, the ‘ distillation’ is usually carried on in cast-iron retorts, similar in size, shape, and character, to those employed in the manufacture of coal-gas, and of which Jive, or more, are commonly set horizontally in the same furnace. (See engr.) Each retort has its mouth {a), through which the ‘ charge’ is in- troduced, closed with a movable door, which is securely fastened in its place, in the manner shewn in the engr.; and is furnished, at the upper part of its further end, with an iron- pipe (c), to carry off the evolved fumes to the condenser or receiver. The latter consists of two large square wooden chambers {B, C), lined with lead, and either fitted with movable covers, secured by water-joints, or with doors in the side, to permit of the easy removal of the sublimed salt. The first receiver commu- nicates wdth the ‘ second’ by means of a large lead-tube {d) near its centre, and by another tube {d'), somewhat smaller, and nearer the bottom, but above the surface of the stratum of water in the second receiver, before alluded to. These chambers have also a lead-pipe {e,e).