ANTIMONY. 194 old names. It is violently emetic and purga- tive.— Dose, As the teroxide. Seldom, if ever, used in England. SuTphurets of Antimony. Only two definite compounds of sulphur and antimony appear to exist, and these correspond in composition to I the oxides and chlorides of this metal. The ' BISTJLPHUEET, mentioned hy Eose, and pre- i pared hy transmitting sulphuretted hydrogen through a solution of antimonious acid in ‘ hy- | drochloric acid,^ has been shewn to he merely j the ‘ hydrated tersulphuret.’ j 1. Tersul'phuret of Antimony. Syn. Teesul'- PHIDE OF ANTIMONY, Sul'pHIDE OF A., StTL'- PHTJEET OF A., BlACK S. OF A., SeSQUISUL'- PHUEET OF A., &C.; ANTIMO^NII TEESIJLPHr- EE'TUM (Ph. L.), A. SULPHUEE'TUM (Ph. E. & D.), A. sesquistjlphijee'tum (Ph. L. 1836), A. S. NI'GETJM, StIBTEM S. N.f, Lu'PUS ME- TALLO"EIJMt (alch.), &C., L.; L’ANTIMOINE SULFUEE, SlJLFUEE d’ANTIMOINE, &C., Fr. ; Schwefel-Spiessglanz, Andeethalb, &c., Ger. This is the gray or grayish-black sub- stance commonly known as crude antimony, Hack antimony, or sulphuret of antimony, in commerce, and from which the other com- pounds of antimony are chiefly obtained. Hist, The native black sulphuret of anti- mony was known to the earliest nations whose minor archaeology has descended to modern times. Eeduced to an impalpable powder, it constituted the ^nD of the ancient Hebrews, the 7r\arv6(p9a\[j,ov and or/jujui or crrip[.ug of the Greeks, the \dpj3ct<jov of Dioscorides, and the stibium of the Eomans; and it is the al- coohl, kohol, or surma, of modern Eastern na- tions. Jezebel “paintedher face” (in the ori- ginal—“put her eyes in painting”), “and tired her head.”^ The effeminate Assyrians “ under-lined their eyes with stibium;” and even the gentle but voluptuous Sardanapalus had his eyes and eyelids painted with the same material.^ It was a necessary article in the toilet of every Greek lady. The use made of it by the Persian and Turkish females at the present day is pointed out elsewhere. See Alcohol, &c. Nat, hist,, sources, Sfc. See Antimony. Prep,—a, Teesulphueet of antimony; Ceys'talline t. of a., Ceys'tallised t. of a. ; Antimonii teesulphtteetijm, A. t. ! CEYSTALLI'NUM, A. T. CEYSTALLIZA'TITM, L. :— ^ The crushed ore is submitted to ^ eliquation ’ in j order to separate the sulphueet from the ! * gangue ’ or earthy matter Avith which it is contaminated; after which it is remelted and run into ‘ loaves ’ or large cakes, in which form it is sent to market. Formerly the opera- tion was performed by introducing the ore into large 2^ots or crucibles having a hole in the bottom; and which, after being closely covered, were set in a circle around a suitable furnace, by which they were heated. At the present time, the process is commonly con- 1 3 Kings, ix., 30.—B. C. 884. ® Atheneeus, lib. xii. ducted in a ‘ reverberatory furnace,’ similar to that figured in the engraving. {a.), (5.) Grate and iii’e-place. {c.) Bridge. \e.) Concave space for ‘ore’ formed by a solid bed (/) of day and sand, and having a ‘hole’ near the bottom extending nearly horizontally through the wall of the fur- nace, to ‘ run off ’ the fused sulphuret. ig.) Door for introducing ‘ore,’ and remonng resi- duum. (h.) Chimney. (i.) Damper, chain, and lever. aa, (Artificially.) From a mixture of me- tallic antimony, 5 parts, and sulphur, 2 parts, melted together in a covered crucible. ab, Peepaeed sulphueet of antimony; Antimonii sulphueetum peepaea'tum, Ph. D.1850 :—sulphuret of commerce reducedto powder, and then ‘ elutriated’ in the way di- rected for prepared chalk. That of the shops is usually merely ground in mills, without elu- triation. b, Amoe'phous teesulphueet of anti- mony, Hy'deatedt. of a. :—By precipitating a solution of tar tat'-emetic with sulphuretted hydrogen, and collecting, washing, and drying the precipitate. Pure. Prop., iS^'c, Native or crystalline sulphuret of antimony is anhydrous, inodorous, insipid, opaque, brittle, easily pulverisable, and of a dark leaden-grey or steel colour; it has a striated crystalline texture, and breaks with a rough spicular fracture; is insoluble in both water and alcohol; soluble, with decomposi- tion, in hot strong acids and alkaline solutions; melts at a red heat, and is partly dissipated in white fumes, leaving an impure gray-coloured oxide mixed with some undecomposed ter- sulphuret (= antimony-ash). Its powder is black, of peculiar I’ichness, and stains the fin gers. Sp, gr,, 4-6 to 4-62. The pure preci pitated (amorphous) tersulphuret is of a brick red colour, and contains a little water; is dark ened by a gentle heat, Avith loss of Avater and at a higher temperature passes from the amorphous to the crystalline condition, at the same time that it assumes the colour and ap- pearance of the native sulphuret. Comp,:— Atoms. Equiv. Per cent. Antimony 1 . 120’3 . 71"5p| Sulphur 3 . 48- . 28-5 ! Cryst. Tersulphuret 1 1. ^ ^ -^qq. of Antimony J Pur, The crude commercial sulphuret fre- j quently contains lead, iron, copper, and ar-l