OILS (VOLATILE). 973 : are to be employed.” Put any one of these ! into an alembic, then pour in as much water \ as will cover it, and distil the oil into a large I vessel, kept cool.” (Ph. L. 1836.) The Edinburgh College directs—As much I water only is to be employed as will prevent j empyreuma during the distillation. The dis- i tillation may be immediately commenced after i a proper maceration, and the oil afterwards separated from the water,” in the manner al- , ready noticed. I It is also necessary to observe; in preparing I these oilsy as well as the distilled waters, that I the quality of the substances, their texture, the season of the year, and similar circum- I stances, must occasion so many differences, I that it is scarcely possible to give any certain I and general rules which shall strictly apply ‘ to every example. Many things, therefore, must be regulated by the judgment of the i operator.” j The Dublin College directs the vegetable ' substances to be macerated in the still with about 5 times their weight of water, for 24 1 hours, when one half of the w’ater is to be I drawn over. The oil having been separated ' from this in the usual manner, it is to be re- turned to the still, and the same quantity ! drawn over, as before, from which the oil must again be separated. i Chevallier gives the following rules for the distillation of essential oils:— 1. Operate upon as large quantities as pos- i sible, in order to obtain a greater product, and I one of finer quality. I 2. Conduct the distillation rapidly. 3. Divide the substances minutely, in order I to facilitate the extrication of the oil. 4. Employ only sufficient water to prevent the matter operated on from burning, and the product from being contaminated with empyreuma. 5. For substances whose oil is heavier than I water, saturate or nearly saturate the water '■ in the still with common salt, to raise the boil- ing-point, and thus to enable the vapour to , carry over more oil. \ 6. Employ, when possible, water which I has been already distilled from off the same I substances, and has thus become saturated I with oil. I 7. For oils naturally fluid, keep the water I in the refrigeratory cool; but for those oils ' which easily become solid, preserve it at 80° to i 90° Fahr. (?) i To the above may be added:— i 8. Collect the oil as soon as possible after i it separates from the water with which it i passes over, and in its subsequent treatment I keep it, as much as possible, from free contact with the air. Dr. Ure remarks, “ The narrower and taller ; the alembic is, within certain limits, the greater will be the proportion of oil, relative to that of the aroinatic water, from like proportions of aqueous and vegetable matter employed.” Some place the plants in baskets, and suspend these immediately over the bottom of the still, under the water, or above its surface in the steam ; but the best mode, in my opinion, is to stuff an upright cylinder full of the plants, and to drive down through them steam of any desired force, its tension and its tem- perature being further regulated by the size of the outlet-orifice leading to the condenser. The cylinder should be made of strong copper, tinned inside, and encased in the worst con- ducting species of wood, such as soft deal or sycamore.” The newly distilled oils may be separated from adhering water, which frequently ren- ders them partially opaque or ‘ cloudy,' by repose in a temperature between 60° and 70° Fahr., and subsequent decantation ; but to ren- der them quite dry (anhydrous), it is necessary to let them stand over some fragments of fused chloride of calcium. This is not, how- ever, required with the commercial oils. The rectification of the volatile oils is com- monly performed without water, by the careful application of a heat just sufficient to make them flow over pretty rapidly, so that they may be kept heated for as short a time as possible. One half, or at most two thirds only, is drawn off, that left in the retort being usually mixed with raw oil intended to be sold in that state. This method often leads to much loss and dis- appointment, and we have known more than one rather dangerous explosion result from its use. A better plan is to rectify the oil from strong brine, and then to separate any ad- hering water, either by repose or chloride of calcium. PreS. Volatile oils should be preserved in well-closed and nearly full bottles, in the shade, and should be opened as seldom as possible. By age they darken, lose much of their odour, increase in density, and become thick and clammy. It is then necessary to distil them, by which the undecomposed portion is sepa- rated from the resin. Agitation along with animal charcoal will restore their clearness and original colour, but nothing more. Pur., tests. The essential or volatile oils of commerce are very frequently adulterated with the fatty oils, resins, spermaceti, or alcohol, or with other essential oils of a cheaper kind or lower grade. The presence of the first three of these may be readily detected by placing a drop of the suspected oil on a piece of white paper, and exposing it for a short time to heat. If the oil is pure, it will en- tirely evaporate; but if adulterated with one of these substances, a greasy or translucent stain will be left on the paper. These sub- stances also remain undissolved when the oil is agitated with thrice its volume of rectified spirit. The presence of alcohol may be detected by agitating the oil with a few small pieces of dried chloride of calcium. These remain un- altered in a pure essential oil, but dissolve in