MENSTRUUM—MERCURIAL DISEASE. 895 I not be more than referred to here. The pre- I ceding indisposition is in some cases more or I less severe, and occurs at each successive period j until the discharge becomes habitual and re- gular. In general, the whole amount lost does not exceed five or six ounces, and the period of the indisposition varies from 2 to 4 days. In a state of perfect health, except ' during pregnancy or lactation, the monthly recurrence of the discharge falls with great regularity, often precisely to a day, until the fortieth, forty-fifth, or even the forty-eighth ! year, after w'hich it ceases altogether. Any deviation from this necessary and natural i course of things leads to a corresponding loss of health and physical comfort; and if it is I extensive, the most painful and calamitous j 1 consequences ensue. To prevent such occur- rences, care should be taken to maintain the general bodily health at the proper standard. Down beds, hot rooms, late hours, luxurious living, excessive clothing, and the like, should be avoided; but, on the other hand, the op- posite extreme should not be run into, and, above all, anxiety, excessive exertion, and ex- posure to cold, should be particularly avoided, both during and a few days previous to the monthly period. The principal diseases connected with the menstrual function are— i Amenoekhcea, or suppeession oe the MENSES, consists in—1. The retention or non- a])pearance of the menses at the proper period of life, by which the symptoms noticed under ‘ Chloeosis’ are induced with greater or less I severity. This variety requires the same j treatment as that disease.—2. Suppression aris- ing from accidental causes operating at the particular period; as exposure to cold, strong mental emotion, excessive grief, local constric- ' tion, &c. In these cases a hot foot-bath or hip-Iath, w ith rx dose of diaphoretic medicine, or ‘ something tvarm' on retiring to rest, will in many cases bring on the menses in a few hours. If there is much fever, and this method is not successful, a saline purgative, or, in very se- vere cases, venesection, may be had recourse to.—3. In suppression ai’isiiig from the exist- I cnee of other diseases the primary affection i should be at once attended to. Menoeehagia, flooding, or excessive FLOW OF THE MENSES, is an affection exactly the reverse of the preceding. The common I cfljtses are violent exertion, sudden surprises or ' frights, violent passion, plethora, profuse eva- I cuations, and external injuries, as blows, ! bruises, &c. The treatment, in mild or passive i cases, should include rest in the horizontal I position, a light, nutritious, but non-exciting 1 diet, the use of w^ak acidulous drinks, and the ; local application of cold, with cooling saline I laxatives as oecasion may require. In robust j habits depletion is often necessary. In severe I cases a more active line of treatment must be i adopted, and powerful internal astringents, as I acetate of lead and may be taken; re- medies which should, however, be only had recourse to under proper medical advice. MEIT'STRUUM. [L.] A solvent or dissol- vent. The principal mensteua employed in chemistry and pharmacy to extract the active principles of bodies by digestion, decoction, infusion, or maceration, are wafer, alcohol, oils, and solutions of the acids and alkalies. MERCAPTAN. An ethereal liquid, disco- vered by Zeise. Pre]}, A solution of caustic of potassa (sp. gr. 1’28) is saturated with sulphuretted hy- drogen, then mixed with an equal volume of a solution, of the same density, of sulphovinate of lime, and next submitted to distillation in a chloride of sodium bath, the retort being con- nected w'ith a receiver surrounded with ice; the distillate consists of mercaptan floating on some w^ater; the former is easily removed by a ‘ separating funnel.^ Prop., 8fc. Limpid, colourless,' ethereal; sp. gr. *842; very slightly soluble in -water; freely soluble in alcohol; boils at 97° Fahr.; very inflammable; colour of flame, blue. Its most remarkable properties are its intense odour of garlic (v/hich adheres to the clothes and person of the operator with extraordinary obstinacy), and its violent action on red oxide of mercury, even in the cold. The product of their reaction may be obtained from the alcoholic solution in a crystalline form. Si- milar compounds are formed with the oxides of copper, gold, lead, and silver, when their solutions are added to an alcoholic solution of mercaptan, MERCU"RIAL BAL'SAM. See Ointment OF Niteate of Meecuey. MERCU"RIAL DISEASE'. Syn. Moebus MEECiJEiALis, Hydeaegteiasis, L. This results from the injudicious or excessive use of mercury, or exposure to the fumes of this metal. The common and leading symptoms are a disagreeable coppery taste; excessive salivation; sponginess, tumefaction, and ul- ceration of the gums; swollen tongue; loosen- ing of the teeth; exfoliation of the jaws; remarkably offensive breath ; debility; emaci- ation; ending (w'hen not arrested) in death from exhaustion. Fever, cachexia, violent purging and griping, a species of eczema (ec- zema MEECUEIALE, LEPBA MEECHEIALIS), and other forms of skin disease, are also phases of the same affection; the first of w'hich occa- sionally proves fatal under the influence of sudden and violent physical exertion. The treatment, in ordinary cases, may con- sist in free exposure to the open air, avoiding either heat or cold; the administration of saline aperients, as Epsom salt, phosphate of soda, &c.; the free use of lemon juice and water as a common drink; -svith weak gargles or washes of chloride of Soda or chloride of lime to the gums, mouth, and throat. Severe cases often resist every variety of treatment, and instances are recorded in the medical journals in which the use of even small doses of iner-