AUTOPSY—AXLE. 249 I I &c., Ger. An automatic machine; anything which moves, or seems to move, of itself, or ' which, though moved hy an external power, is • self-regulating or self-directing. The con- ’ sideration of those connected with the indus- j trial arts belong to mechanics and engineering; and together with those ingenious but useless I toys, which have at different times astonished and amused the public under th« names of au- tom’ata, and androides (when in human form), I do not come within the province of this work. I Much interesting and curious information on i this subject will be found in the “ Encyclopedie ' Methodique’* Montucla’s “ Histoire des Math.,'’ “ Diet, of Musicians” (1827), Hutton’s “ Math. I Diet. Sf Recreations,” “Penny Cyclop.,” “ Encycl. ' Brit.,” and “ Phil, of Manufactures ;” and also i in Braude’s and Ure’s “ Dictionaries.” AUTOPSY (aw'-; autop'sy* — Mayne). Syn. Autop'sia, L., Gr.; Autopsie, &c., Fr., Ger. , Ocular observation, examination, or evidence. It is now frequently applied “ very unmean- I ingly, to the dissection of a dead body,” in the same sense as post mortem examination. i It is rarely used out of the medical profession. AVE'NA. [L.] The oat; oats, i AVENA'CEOUS (av-e-na'-sh’us). Syn. Ave- KA'CEUS, L.; Avenace, Fr. Of or like the j oat or oats. I AVE'NINE(-nin). Syn. Avena'ine* (av-e-) ; I Aveni'na, &c., L.; Avenine, &c., Fr. A I proteine-compound, analogous to caseine, ob- I tainedfrom oats, and on which itsnutritiveness I chiefly depends. ' Prep. The grain, reduced to the state of powder or meal, is washed on a sieve, and the ‘ milky liquid,’ after being allowed to de- j posit its starch, is heated to about 200° Fahr., i to coagulate the albumen; when cold, acetic i acid is added as long as a white powder falls, ' which is AVENINE; this is collected on a filter, U drained, and dried by a gentle heat. ' AVENT'UEINE,Avant'urine (-u-rene; -\ong- \ too—Knowles & Smart). [Eng., Fr.] A i beautiful iridescent variety of rock crystal, ^ minutely spangled throughout with yellow I scales of mica (ayentueine, a. qijaetz). ! A variety of felspar (a. eel'spae) of some- what similar appearance is found in the Con- tinent and the Peninsula, of which the finer kinds are called a. oeientale and pieeee de SOLEIL, by the lapidaries. Both varieties are I now imitated by the glass and porcelain manu- i facturers. See Glass, Glaze, Paste, &c. AV'ERRUNCA'TOR. In arboriculture, ^c., an improved species of shears fixed on the end of a pole or long rod, and actuated by a line, I so as to adapt them for ‘pruning’ at some I distance above the head. A'VES (-vez). [L.; sing., a'vis.] Birds. I In zoology, the name of a class of warm- ! blooded vertebrate animals, characterised by a double system of circulation and respiration, oviparous generation, a covering of feathers, and by their anterior extremities being gene- rally organised for flight. Their distribution into orders is founded on the organs of man- ducation, or the beak, and on those of pre- hension, or the foot. See Bieds, Oenitho- LOGT, and Zoology. A'VIARY (-ve-). Syn. Avia”eium, L. ; VOLIEEE, Fr.; VoGELHAES VOGELHECKE, Ger. A place for keeping birds; generally applied to an enclosed space or building in which birds are kept, or bred, on account of their rarity, plumage, or song ; and not for food. Situa., Sfc. For exotic birds, a place should be selected where the temperature can be maintained at a proper degree throughout the year, ^and which is well protected from the weather. This is commonly done by choosing a space attached to the summerhouse or hot- house. When the aviary is only intended for birds of climates similar to our own, any part of the open garden may be chosen, and a por- tion closed in, either with trellis-work or wire-work, or netting; care being taken to provide, in some easily accessible portion of it, full protection from vicissitudes of weather and season. Nor must cleanliness, and due ventilation and protection from foul air or noxious fumes, be left unattended to. AVIGNON' BER'RIES (av-veen-yo??^-). French berries. AV'OIRDUPOIS' (av-er-du-pois'). The com- mon weight of 16 oz. or 7000 gr. to the lb., used in these realms for all kinds of goods, except and the precious metals, and medicines in dispensing, or as ordered in the Ph. L. & E. See Weights. AWN'ING. A temporary or movable cover- ing spread over any spot or place as a j)rotec- tion from sun and rain. See Sun-peooeing, Watee-peooeing, &c. AXIL'LA. [L.] Syn. Aisselle, Fr.; Achsel- GEUBE, Ger. An interesting region in topo- graphical anatomy, containing important ar- teries, veins, nerves, glands, &c., which are termed ax'illary (axilla"eis, L. ; axil- LAIEE, Fr.). AX'IS. [L., Eng., Fr.] Syn. Axe, Fr.; Achse, Ger. Primarily, that on or around which anything acts or performs ; an axle or axle-tree. In anatomy, that on or around which any organ or part rests, gravitates, or centres. In astronomy, the diameter on or about which a celestial body revolves. In botany, part or parts about which particular organs are arranged; an imaginary line pass- ing from the base to the apex of a pericarp, &c. In crystallography, imaginary lines pass- ing through the central points of a crystal, and about which the molecules or particles of matter composing it may be conceived to be symmetrically built up. In geology, the centre of a mountain-group. In mechanics, the straight line, real or imaginary, about which any body oscillates or revolves. See Cetstal, &c. AX'LE, Ax'le-tree (aks'l-). Syn. Essiee, Fr.; Axe (am rade), &c., Ger. In mechanics, the pin, rod, or material line, on which a wheel, &c., turns. See Anti-atteition, Feiction, &c.