FISH. 648 phuret of antimony, 17i parts; nitre, 48 parts. 8. (Ku^^ eri.) ¥rom realgar, 2 parts ; sul- phur, 7 parts ; nitre, 24 parts. 9. (Ruggieri.) Charcoal, 1 part; sulphur, 24 parts; nitre, 75 parts. 10. (Ruggieri.) Iron or zinc borings, 25 parts; gunpowder, 100 parts. Yellow Fire. Prep. 1. From sulphur, 16 parts; dried carbonate of soda, 23 parts; chlorate of potassa, 61 parts. 2. (Marchand.) Gunpowder, 14 parts; sul- phur, 16 parts; dried soda, 20 parts; nitre, 50 parts. 3. (Marchand.) Charcoal, 1| part; sul- phicr, I7i parts; dried soda, 20 parts; nitre, 61 parts. 4. (Marsh.) Charcoal, 6 parts; sidphur, 19i parts. For pans. Very beautiful. Obs. The ingredients in the above com- pounds are to be separately reduced to pow- der, and sifted through lawn, after which they should be kept in well-corked wide-mouthed bottles until the time of mixing them for use. The chlorate of potassa, more especially, must be separately treated, and cautiously handled, in order to prevent the possibility of explosion, from friction, whilst it is in contact with com- bustible matter. The requisite quantity of each of the ingredients being weighed out and placed on a clean sheet of white paper, the whole is to be thoroughly but carefully mixed together, with a ‘ light hand,’ by means of a bone or wooden knife. The compound is next ‘lightly’ packed into small cups or pans for iLLUMiNATiOiJS, or iiito small pill-boxes for STARS and trains, a little priming and quick- match being lastly attached to each. To en- sure success, the several ingredients must be dry and commercially pure ; and though reduced to the state of a uniform powder, care must be taken that they are not absolutely ‘ dusty,’ or too finely pulverized. The nitrate of strontia, alum, saltpetre, carbonate of soda, kc., before being weighed, require to be gently heated in an iron pot or pan, until they fall to powder, and lose their hygrometric moisture, or water of crystallization. To ensure the perfect ad- mixtui’e of the ingredients, the whole, after they have been stirred together on paper, as before directed, may be passed through a hair ov perforated zinc or brass sieve. Further, as ‘ coloured fire.s’ rapidly deteriorate by ‘ keep- ing,’ and even sometimes inflame spontaneously, to prevent disappointment and accidents they should not be prepared long before they will be required for use, and should be stored in some situation in which their spontaneous combustion would be productive of no disas- trous consequences. Of the above formulae, those bearing the name of the late Mr. Marsh, of Woolwich, more especially deserve the attention of the pyrotechnist. See Flame, PyROTECHNT, &c. FISH. Syn. Pisces, L. Fishes form the fourth class of vertebrate animals (verte- brata) in the Cuvierian arrangement of the animal ki:'igdom, and in the variety of their genera and species are second only to the INSECTA, whilst in prolificness and number they probably exceed all other animated beings that reach a size equal to that of even tlie .smallest member of their prodigious race. Be- sides their value to man as food, they furnish him with oil, isinglass, and various other arti- cles of utility and luxury, and provide, either directly or indirectly, an inexhaustible supply of manure for the fertilization of his fields. As food, fish are undoubtedly wholesome and nutritious, although less so than the flesh of animals or the grains of the cereals. Of all the various substances used as aliments by man, fish are, however, the most liable to run into a state of putrefaction, and should there- fore be only eaten when perfectly fresh, or, if not recently taken, tlien only when their perfect preservation has been ensured by any of the ordinary methods employed for the purpose. Those that are the whitest and most flaky when cooked, as cod, flounders, haddock, hake, soles, turbot, whiting, &c., are the most easily di- gested ; and those abounding in oily matter, as eels, herrings, mackerel, salmon, &c., are most nutritious, though the most likely to offend the stomach. Salt-water flsh have been said to be more wholesome than river flsh, but with.out sufficient reason. Salted flsh are h.ard of digestion, unless when carefully cooked and well masticated. Skin diseases are said to be more common among those who live continu- ally on fish than among those wh.o abstain from it; but this probably arises from their use being unaccompanied by a proper quantity of fresh vegetables or fruit, both of which are scarcer on the sea-coast than further inland. As one of the components of a mixed diet, the value of fish is indisputable. Acid sauces and pickles are the proper additions to fish, from their power of retarding the progress of putrefac- tion, and of correcting the relaxing tendency of large quantities of oil and butter. Artif. Propog. The fecundity of fish is posi- tively marvellous. According to the recent observations of Mr. Frank T. Buckland, salmon yield about 1000 ova or eggs to every lb. of their weight: a trout weighing 1 lb. produced upw'ards of 1000; a mackerel (1 lb.), 86,120; a herring (i lb.), 19,840; a sole (1 lb.), 134,466; a turbot (8 lb}), 385,200; and a cod (20 /A.), 4,872,000. The ova here spoken of form what is commonly called the ‘-hard roe’ of the female fish; the ‘ soft roe ’ is the ‘ milt ’ of the male fish. To protect the spawn, and the fry, when hatched, is the object of the art of fish- culture, which has made great progress during late years. When the spawm is not artificially protected, the greater portion is always wasted, being sivept away by the stream, and devoured by fish, birds, and insects. The natural enemies of the newly hatched fish are, again, so numerous, that it is really surprising that any should escape de- struction. According to given data and accu-