J3ATH. 280 plate heated by boiling water, in the bath- room. Anodyne, anaphrodisiac, and diapho- retic; in spasmodic asthma, chronic cough, relaxation of the uvula, ardor urinje, nervous irritability, &c. Carbon'ic Bath. Syn, Caebok'ic acid bath; Bal'kedm caeboj^'icuh, B. AC'lDrM CAEBOXICUM, L. 1. Carbonic acid gas applied, by means of a suitable apparatus, to prevent its being respired. Antiseptic, diaphoretic, and excitant to the vascular system ; in amenorrhoea, chlorosis, hysteria, scrofula, cancerous and other ulcers (particularly foul ones), Ac. 2. Watery at 50° Fahr., charged with the gas. Powerfully antiseptic and sedative; in foul ulcers, gangrene, &c. Chlo'ride of Ammo"nium Bath. Syn. Bal'- NEUM AMMO"^iII CHLOEI'DI, B. AAOIO"NI^ htdeochloea'tis, L. Sal-ammoniac, 2 to 3 lb., or even 4 lb. In chronic inflammations, glan- dular enlargements and indurations, chronic rheumatism and affections of the joints, leu- corrhoea, chilblains, frost-bites, &c.^ Chlo"rine Bath. Syn. BAL'JVErH chlo- ETN'II, B. CHLOEiNA'TrM, L. Tepid Water to which a little chlorine has been added. Antiseptic, stimulant, and subsequently seda- tive and antiphlogistic; in itch, foul and gan- grenous ulcers, chronic liver affections, &c. Chloride of lime is commonly substituted for chlorine.^ 2. (Magendie; Wallace.) Chlorine gas (ob- tained from salt, 1|: oz.; oil of vitriol and water, of each, 1 oz.; and black oxide of man- ganese, I oz. to 1 oz.) diluted with air, at a temperature of 104° to 150° Fahr., and applied, by means of a suitable apparatus, for 10 minutes to ^ an hour; every possible precau- tion being taken to prevent it being inhaled. In chronic liver affections, gradually and cau- tiously increasing the ingredients to three times the above quantity, and decreasing the dilution with air until the gas is used nearly pure.- Cold Bath. Syn. Bal'neum EEia'iDUH (-fry'-), Feigida"eiitm, L. ; Bain feoid, Fr. Water, fresh, saline, or mineral, at a tern- | perature varying from 33° to about 75°; but ' usually understood to apply to water between ; 50° and 70° Fahr. When below 50° it is con- j sidered very cold. At a temperature ranging j from 60° to about 75° it is commonly used by the healthy and vigorous as a luxury, and for t;leanliness. “ The immediate ejfects of the cold bath are a sensation of cold (speedily followed by one t)f Avarmth), contraction of the cutaneous vessels, paleness of the skin, diminution of ])erspiration, and reduction of the volume of 1 See p. 275, 278, &c. (ante). 2 A dangerous remedy in careless or unskilful hands; and even with the experienced, not always free from danger. Tlie writer of this article once nearly lost his life from a single inspiration of the gas which accidentally escaped its proper limits. Terrific spasms of the glottis and a con- vulsive cough immediately came on, and lasted, with more or less severity, for nearly T i hours. j the body. Shivering, and, as the water rises 1 to the chest, a kind of convulsive sobbing, are also experienced. Continued immersion renders the pulse small, and ultimately imperceptible, and the respiration difficult and irregular. A feeling of inactivity succeeds; the joints be- come rigid and inflexible; pain in the head, drowsiness, and cramps, come on; the tem- ! perature of the body falls rapidly; and faint- I ness, followed by death, ensues.” “ Its primary effects constitute the shock—its secondary I effects, the eeaction or glow.”^ Hence it is j that immersion of the body in water below 1 about 65° Fahr. cannot be tolerated for any ! length of time without such a loss of animal I heat, as frequently to induce highly sedative and depressing effects, from which the consti- ! tution does not readily recover. Water at atem- j perature of below about 50° Fahr. can only be i safely used as a plunge-bath. The sedative effects ! of sea and mineral waters, is much less than that of pure water, or of spring or river water. The cold bath, medically considered, is tonic, stimulant and restorative, when judiciously taken, and when not too long continued or too often repeated. When benefleial, the patient feels a pleasant ‘ gloAv’ on the surface of the body immediately following it. If a sensation ol coldness or shivering ensues, it acts injuriously and should not be repeated. The duration oi the immersion may vary from 2 to 15 minutes, the precise time depending upon the tempera- j ture of the water, and the feelings of the j bather; the longer period being only proper in fine weather, and Avhen accompanied by swimming or violent exercise. As a remedial agent, the cold bath is princi- pallj’- recommended to increase the tone and i vigour of the system ; and is contra-indicated I when there is a tendency to apoplexy, or to i chronic affections, functional or organic, of j the heart, lungs, or kidneys. It should never j be taken when the party feels chilly, languid, i or depressed; or if drowsiness and shivering j follow it. j The temperature of the ivater of the rivers I and the coasts of England ranges, in summer, ' from 55° to 70 or 72° Fahr. See Bath {p. 277-8), Cold, Deowning, &c. Douche Bath. See Showee-bath, Doi^che Ac. Dry Bath. Syn, Bal'neum sic'chm, L. The immersion of the body in any di’y material, as ashes, salt, sand, &c. Eaeth-bathing, as administered by the once notorious quack. Dr. Graham, was of this kind. In the sudatorium, or sweating room, of the ancients, the body was immersed in heated sand. Elec'tric Bath. Syn. Bal'neum elec'- TEICUM, L. The patient, placed on an insu- lated stool, is put in contact, by means of a metallic wire, with the prime conductor of an electrical machine in action. The surface of the body is thus rendered electro-positive, and the surrounding air, by induction, electro- 3 Pereira, “ 3Iat. Med. Therap.f 1th ed., i, 2t).