135 Ay\Bl DKXTP:H- AMIDK. Pur. From the high price of genuine j ambergris it is very frequently, if not nearly I always, adulterated. When quite pure and of ' the best quality, it is—1. Nearly wholly I soluble in hot alcohol and ether, and yields ! about 85g of ambreine:—2. It almost wholly volatilises at a moderate heat, and when burnt i leaves no notable quantity of ashes ; a little of I it exposed in a silver-spoon, melts without I bubble or scum ; and on the heated point of a I knife it is rapidly and entirely dissipated:— ! 3. It is easily punctured with a heated needle, and on withdrawing it, not only should the I odour be immediately evolved, but the needle should come out clean, without anything ad- I hering to it (Normandy):—I. The Chinese | I are said to try its genuineness by scraping it , fine upon the top of boiling tea. “ It should I dissolve (melt) and diffuse itself generally.” I Black or white is ‘bad.’ The smooth and I uniform is generally ‘ factitious.’^ Uses, S^"c. It is highly prized for its odour, I which is found greatly to improve and exalt that of other substances; hence its extensive I use in perfumery. In medicine, it was for- 1 merly given as an aphrodisiac, in doses of 3 to I 10 gr. “ A grain or two, when rubbed down I with sugar, and added to a hogshead of claret, } is very perceptible in the wine, and gives it a ' flavour, by some considered as an improve- ; ment.” (Brande.) j Facti"tious Ambergris. An article of this kind, met with in the shops, is thus made :— I Orris-powder, spermaceti, and gum-benzoin, of i ! each, 1 lb.; asphallum, 3 or 4 oz.; ambergris, 6 oz.; grain-musk 3 dr.; oil of cloves, 1 dr. ; oil of rhodium, 5 dr.; liquor of ammonia, 1 Ji. oz.; beaten to a smooth hard mass with mucilage, and made into lumps whilst soft. This fraud is readily detected. AMBIDEX'TER. [Eng., L.] Syn. Amei- I DEXTRE, Fr. Literally, both right hands; I appr., one who uses both hands with equal I facility. Hence the corresponding adjective t ambidex'trous? , ^ AMBILETOUS Left-handed on both I sides; clumsy in the use of both hands. 1 I AMBREA'DA. Syn. Ambreade, Fr. False I or factitious amber. ! AMBRE'IC ACID. Syn. Acidum ambreTcum, i ; L. Asubstance obtained by Pelletier andCaven. | i tou, by digesting ambreine in nitric acid. It i resembles cholesteric acid. Its compounds j I with the bases are termed am'breates. j I AM'BREINE (-bre-in). Syn. Ambrei'na, i I ' Ure’s of A., M., ^ M.f 5th Ed., i, 128. 2 Some persons, following Celsus, regard it as a great advantage to a surgeon to he ambidextrous; but Mr. Fer- gusson, one of our most eminent operative surgeons and writers on surgery, holds a different opinion. "I have never yet seen a surgeon who possessed equal pov;er and ' in either hand ; nor do 1 consider that the I practice of his art requires tliat kind of dexterity possessed I by i\\e jufiglrr, who tosses his daggers, and catches them iigain as they twirl through the air, as freely with the one I liaiid as with the other, and with whom the aliility of each j are, of necessity, nearly alike.” (“ Prac. Surg.,” 4th Ed., I p. 5.) Mr. Yearsley, the well-known aurist. of Savile Row, ! IS an ambidexter. L.; Ambreixe, Fi*.; Ambarstoef, Ger. The fatty, odorous principle of ambergris. Prep. Digest ambergris in hot alcohol (sp. gr. 0*827), until the latter will dissolve no more, then filter. The ambreine will be de- posited as the solution cools, in an irregular crystalline mass, which may be purified by re- crystallisation in alcohol. Prop., 8fc. Melts at about 90°; volatilises at 212° to 220° Fahr.; nitric acid converts it into ambreic acid. It clo.sely resembles cholesterine.—Prod. 85§. A-MBRETTE'(-bref). [Fr.] Musk-seed. A*MENORRH(E'A (-re'-a). [L.; prim., Gr.] Syn. Amenorrhee, Fr.; Amanorrhoe, Ger. In pathology, morbid irregularity or deficiency of the menstrual discharge. In its widest sense it includes both ‘ retention ’ and ‘ suppression ’ of the menses; but not dysme- norrheea. See Chlorosis, Menstruation, &c. AMEN'TIA (-sh’a). [L.] Liter ally, vfWnowt mind. In psycho-pathology, idiotcy; imbe- cility of mind in wLich the relations of things are either not perceived or not recollected. Natural idiotism (amentia congenTta), is that which originates at birth; dotage or second childhood (a. acquisi'ta), that which arises from age or accidental causes. See Idiotcy and Insanity. AM'ETHYST (thist). Syn. Purple rocn- CRYSTAL; Amethyste, Fr.; Amethys'tus, L. A beautiful sub-species of quartz or rock crystal, of a violet blue colour of varying intensity, in great request for cutting into seals, brooches, and other like articles of ornament. It was known and prized in the earliest ages of antiquity. (Exod. xxv. 19.) Among the an- cients, cups and vases were made out of this mineral; and it was an opinion of the Greeks and Persians, that an amethyst bound on the navel, would counteract the effects of wine, and that wine drank out of an amethystine vessel would not intoxicate. See Gems. Amethyst. In chromatics, dyeing, <^c., a rich variety of deep violet-colour. Hence, amethystTne (-m), &c. Orient'al Amethyst. A rich violet-blue va- riety of transparent, crystallised corundum. AM'IANTH (-e-anth). Syn. Amianth'us, Amian'tus, L. ; Amiante, Fr. The whiter and more delicate varieties of asbestos, par- ticularly those which possess a satiny lustre. (Pliny, xxxvi, 19.) AM'IDE (-id). [A word formed from am- monia, just as ‘ bromide,’ ‘ chloride,’ ‘ iodide,’ &c., are from bromine, chlorine, &c.] Syn. Am'idet, Am'idide (-e-did).3 In chemistry, a compound containing amidogen, in its electro- negative part. A substance formed on the type ‘ ammonia,’ but having one atom of its hydrogen replaced by a relatively electro.positive or acid radical. The names of compounds in 3 All these words, as well as amidogen, ought certainly to be written with/k’o ni’s. (Webster; Goodrich.) “The term ammonide, from their resemblance to ammonia, would, perhaps, be more correct.” (Brando.)