I 481 COPPER. which will throw down a sulpliuret of copper, ! which may then he dissolved in nitric acid: —6. Copper may be separated from silver by : digesting it in the state of filings or powder in i a solution of chloride of zinc, which dissolves ■ the first, but leaves the last unchanged:— ! 7. Copper may be separated, in a state of great purity, from ANTIMONY, ARSENIC, Bis- I MUTH, LEAD, IRON, TIN, ZINC, &C., as it exists j in bell-metal, brass, bronze, gun-metal, mosaic ' gold, and other commercial alloys, by fusing it ' in a crucible for about half an hour, along with copper scales (black oxide) and ground botlle- I glass, or other like flux. The pure metal is j found at the bottom of the crucible, whilst the ' impurities are either volatilized or dissolved in ! the flux. The proportions for refining com- mercial copper are, metal, 10 parts; copper I scales and bottle-glass, of each, 1 part. The I Society of Arts conceived this process to be so t valuable, that they presented one of their ' gold medals to its inventor, Mr. Lewis Thompson. Uses, 8fc. The ordinary uses of copper are well known. In medicine, 3 or 4 gr. of the filings or powder were formerly given in rheu- matism, and to prevent hydrophobia. Some of its salts are still used as astringents, eme- tics, and caustics. Its alloys are of great value. With rt»c it forms brass; with/m, bronze, BELL METAL, GUN METAL, and SPECULUM METAL. White copper is formed by the addition of metallic arsenic, and German SILVER is a mixture of nickel, zinc, and j copper. j Ant. Copper in the metallic state is almost I inert, but all its compounds are poisonous. I The antidotes are—the white of egg, milk, or 1 four, mixed with water. The hydrated sul- phurets of iron, iron filings, and ferrocyanide of \ potassium have also been strongly recom- mended, and are exhibited in the same way. j Sugar is likewise highly spoken of as an anti- I dote. In all cases a strong emetic should be I first given. 1 Obs. Culinary and pharmaceuti(;al vessels ; are very commonly made of copper, but too j much ♦caution cannot he exercised in their j employment. Acid syrups, vegetable juices, j aqueous extracts, soups, stews, &c., prepared j in copper saucepans, or boilers, receive a I metallic contamination proportional to the I length of time they are exposed to the action j of the metal. Such vessels are frequently I tinned, for the purpose of protecting the copper j from contact with their contents, but this film i of tin is necessarily very thin, and soon be- I comes imperfect by constant use. When copper 1 vessels are allowed to remain wet or dirty, or, I more especially, greasy, a poisonous green rust 1 forms upon the surface, somewhat similar to I verdigris. If articles are prepared in them in i this state, serious consequences may ensue, i Cases of poisoning from this cause are fre- i quently met with, and instances of vomiting following the use of such articles are almost of daily occurrence, without the reason being suspected. We have occasionally seen con- fections and extracts, prepared in copper pans, deposit a coating of that metal upon the knives used to stir them. The ashes of the inspissated juices of fresh vegetables, and especially the pulps of fruit, prepared in vessels of this metal, have exhibited, the presence of copper o^n the application of chemical tests. Ketchup is fre- quently rendered poisonous in this way. The most wholesome material for culinary utensils is thin sheet iron, or tinned iron-plate (tin), which is very durable if kept clean and dry when not in use. Copper vessels of every kind should be cleaned out, immediately before use, even though they may not appear to require it, and on no account should they be employed for any fluids that are the least acidulous, or that may have to remain long in them. Ac'etates of Copper. Several compounds of acetic acid and copper have been noticed by chemists, the most important being the fol- lowing :— 1. Neu'tral Acetate of Copper. Syn. Nor'- MAL CU'PRIC ACETATE, CrYS'TALLIZED VER'DI- GRis, Distilled' v. Prep. 1. Dissolve common verdigris in hot acetic acid, so as to form a highly concentrated solution ; Alter, and place in a cool situation to crystallize. 2. Precipitate a concentrated solution of normal acetate of lead with sulphate of copper ; filter, and cool as before. Prop. Beautiful dark, bluish-green prisms, which dissolve in 14 parts of cold and 5 parts of boiling water. A solution mixed with sugar, and heated, yields suboxide of copper. 2. Ba'sic Acetates of Copper. Syn. Ba'stc CU'PRIC ACETATES, SuB-AC'ETATES OF COPPER. Common verdigris is a mixture of several basic acetates which have a green or blue colour. One of these (sesquibasic acetate) is ob- tained by digesting powdered verdigris in tepid water, filtering, and leaving the soluble part to spontaneous evaporation. It may also be obtained in a state of purity by adding liquor of ammonia in small portions to a boiling con- centrated solution of the neutral acetate till the precipitate is just redissolved, and leaving the solution to cool. It forms a blue, crystal- line mass, but little soluble in cold water. The green, insoluble residue of the verdigris, after treatment with tepid water, contains another acetate (tribasic acetate) ; this may be formed by digesting neutral acetate of copper with the hydrated oxide. . A third salt (di- basic ACETATE, BLUE VERDiGRis) is prepared on a large scale in France by exposing copper to the air in contact with fermenting wine- lees. See Verdigris. Ace'to-ar'senite of Copper. See Green Pig- ments {Schweinfurt Green). Ammo"nio-suTphate of Copper. Syn. Cu'- pro-sulphate of ammo"nia; Cu'pri am- mo"nio-sulphas (Ph. L. & D.), Cu'prum AMMONIA'tUM (Ph. E.), AMMO"NIiE CU'PRO- SULPHAS, L ; Cuivre ammoniacal, Fr.; 31