i I LIVE-LONG- any of the other tinctorial lichens capable of I yielding archil, by a process essentially similar [ to that adopted for the latter substance, except I that chalk is generally used to form the paste, ; which is moulded into cakes and dried. I Pur.y Sfc. “ Soluble in both water and I alcohol. Its blue colour is reddened by acids, and is restored by the addition of alkalies.” ! (Ph. L. 1836.) It is extensively used by the dxjer as a red and crimson colouring matter, I and by the chemist as a test for acids. See j AucniL, Cfdbeab, &c. I LIVE-LONCf. Digestive candy. See Can- : DYING. LIV'ER. Syn. Hepae, L. A large abdo- minal viscus, the exclusive duty of which, until recently, was stated by physiologists to I be to secrete bile ; but the secretion of sugar ; for combustion in the lungs or capillaries is I now said to be one of its chief duties. The I liver is subject to several diseases, both func- I tional and organic, among which inflammation j (hepatitis) holds the most important place. The acute form of this disease is ushered in with pain in the region of the liver, with sick- ness, costiveness, and a strong, hard, and fre- I quent pulse, with great pain about the clavicle I and shoulders. There is cough, oppressed 1 breathing, and often vomiting of bilious matter, j The urine is scanty, and of a saffron-yellow I colour, and the skin and eyes are also tinged I yellow. The treatment consists chiefly in j bleeding, purging with salines accompanied I with mercurials, the use of antimonials, and a I blister applied over the region of the liver. ! Bitter tonics, as calumba, cascarilla, and gen- L tian, may afterwards be had recourse to; and if the patient resides in a hot climate, a change to a temperate one should be made, if possible. I Chronic hepatitis requires similar treatment, ^ but of a less active character. The more usual I causes of diseases of the liver, besides those i common to the other viscera, are residence in j a hot climate, and the excessive use of highly j seasoned food and alcoholic liquors. I Liv'er. Syn. Hepae, L. In chemistry and j pharmacy, a term formerly applied to nume- rous substances, on account of their colour; as liver of antimony (hepae ANTIMONII), liver of 1 sulphur (hepae shlphtjeis), &c. I LIXIVIA'TION. The process of dissolving I out or extracting the saline matter of bodies, I more especially of ashes, the residua of distil- j lations, &c., by means of ablution or digestion ; in water. The solution so obtained is called a ; ‘ LYE,’ ‘ ley,’ Or ‘ LixiviFM,’ and the salts re- I suiting from the evaporation of such solutions j ‘ lixivial salts.’ i LLA'MA. Syn. Ghanaco; Lama, L. A I genus of animals of the family Bovidee and tribe Camelina. The llama is confined to South . America, and may be regarded as the repre- J sentative of the camel in the New World. 1 The most important species are Lama vicugna (the vicuna) and L. Guanacus (the guanaco). The wool of llamas is woven into stuffs for -LOGWOOD. 855 ponchos, and made into cords, sacks, &c. See Alpaca. LOAD'STONE. Syn. Lodestone, Magne- sian STONE, Magnetic ieonstone. Native magnetic oxide of iron. It is often found massive, frequently crystallized, and occasion- ally in beds of considerable thickness. Its colour varies from reddish-black to deep gray. Native magnets from Arabia, China, and Ben- gal, are commonly of a reddish colour, and are powerfully attractive. Those found in Ger- many and England have the colour of un- wrought iron; those from Macedonia are more black and dull. LOAM. A native mixture of clay, sand, and oaeide of iron, with more or less chalk. Loamy soils are of this description. They are called heavy or light, according to the proportion of clay; and sandy, calcareous, or gravelly, just as sand, gravel, or chalk, form a characteristic portion of them. LOBELIA. Syn. Indian tobacco; Lo- belia (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “ The flowering herb of Lobelia inflata"’ (Ph. L.), or bladder^ podded lobelia. This herb has an unpleasant odour, and an acrid, burning, nauseous taste, somewhat resembling that of tobacco. In small doses (1 to 3 gr.), it is expectorant and diaphoretic; in larger doses (5 to 15 gr.), nauseant and emetic; and in excessive doses, poisonous. According to Dr. Pereira, its prin- cipal value is that of an antispasmodic. It has been highly' recommended by Dr. Elliotson in spasmodic asthma. He commences with small doses, and gradually increases them, unless headache or nausea occurs. Others give a full dose at or before the commencement of the fit. It has been also tried in croup, hooping-cough, and other diseases of the respiratory organs, with variable effect. Lobelia is the panacea of Dr. Coffin, the author of the pretended system of medicine irreverently called ‘Coffinism.’ LOBELIC ACID. The acid existing in de- coction of lobelia. It closely resembles gallic acid. It reddens litmus,”and is precipitated by several metallic salts. LOBEL'INE. Syn. Lobelina, L. A light yellowish-brown oily substance, found by' Calhoun of Philadelphia in Lobelia inflata. It is volatile, soluble in alcohol, ether, and water; and in oil of turpentine, oil of almonds, and some other fixed oils; with the acids it forms crystallizable salts, which are soluble. It may be obtained from the seeds by the action of alcohol acidulated with acetic acid, evapo- rating, treating with magnesia and then with ether, and again evaporating. 1 oz. of the seeds furnishes 2 gr. When perfectly pure, X gr, will kill a large dog. LOB'STERS. See Shell Fish. LOCK'SOY, Bice boiled to a paste and drawn into threads. Used to thicken soups. It is imported from China. LOG'WOOD. Sijn. Campeachy wood, H.e- MATOXYLUM ^(Ph. L. E. & D.), H.®:matoxyli