40 ACONITINE. acid, as before; agitate the solution with animal charcoal, filter, and again precipitate with ammonia ,^astly, carefully collect, wash, and dry the precipitated aconitina. 2. (M. Hesse.) By adding hydrate of magnesia to a decoction of the dried leaves, washing the precipitate with distilled water, and, after drying it, treating it with boiling alcohol; the resulting tincture deposits the greater part of the aconitina as it cools, and the remainder by gentle evaporation. 3. (Headland.) Evaporate a tincture, pre- pared with rectified spirit from the root of (preferably) aconitum ferox, to the consistence of a syrup; dilute with twice its volume of water, acidulate with dilute sulphuric acid, filter, and again evaporate to the consistence of a syrup by the heat of a water-bath; place the residuum in a stoppered bottle, add strong liquor of ammonia, in excess; agitate, and to the white mass add an equal bulk of ether; place the bottle in a damp cloth, agi- tate briskly for several minutes, and, after repose, decant the ether. Eepeat the agita- tion with fresh ether, a second and a third time; lastly, let the clear decanted ether eva- porate spontaneously in an open capsule. The residuum is perfectly pure aconitusta. Prop., 4'C. A white and odourless powder, or a semi-transparent, glassy mass or plates; so- luble in 150 parts of water at 60”, and in 50 parts at 212° Fahr. Freely soluble in hot alcohol and in ether; and in the dilute acids, forming salts. When absolutely pure, it may be obtained in crystals from its alcoholic solution, by spontaneous evaporation; but niuch of the alkaloid is lost in the mother liquor. It is “ largely soluble in sulphuric ether, less so in alcohol, and nearly insoluble in waiter. It is totally destroyed by heat, leaving, no salt of lime.” (Ph. L. 1836.) The foreign aconitina, which sells at about 3c?. per gr., is a spurious article. Mr. Morson is the only English ma- nufacturer ; and charges an extremely high price (3s. 6c?. a gr.). “ The j^jth of a grain of Mr. Morson’s aconitina killed a moderate- sized dog ; whereas 1 or 2 gr. of the spurious alkaloid only produced slight sickness.” (Gar- rod.) Even this small quantity has been found to endanger life. (Pereira.) “l-300th of a gr. of pure aconitina will poison a mouse with characteristic symptoms; 1-100th a small bird; 1-lOOOth of a gr. causes tingling and numb- ness of the tip of the tongue; 1-100th of a gr., dissolved in spirit, and rubbed into the skin, causes loss of feeling lasting for some time.” (Headland.) The pharmaceutical che- mist cannot, therefore, be too careful in dis- pensing this article. Tests, char., —1. It exhibits a marked alkaline reaction :—2. Its salts, and its solu- tions in the dilute acids, are precipitated by ammonia and potassa {white), tincture of iodine (brown), tannic acid and tincture of galls (lightish broivn), chloride of gold (whitish yellow), and picric acid (yellowish, dense, in- soluble in ammonia); but not by chloride of platinum, gallic acid, corrosive sublimate, the iodide or sulphocyanide of potassium, bicar- bonate of soda, or sesquicarbonate of ammonia: —3. Its solutions in the dilute acids yield gummy salts on evaporation:— 4. Smartly heated in ‘ free contact’ with the air, it fuses and burns with a bright yellow flame, but when heated on platinum foil over a spirit-lamp, commonly with a smoky flame ; and is, in both cases, speedily and entirely dissipated:—5. Heated in a tube it readily fuses, forming a pale amber-coloured liquid, which, at a higher temperature, is decomposed, without sublima- tion, ammoniacal vapour being given off, fol- lowed, toward the end, by acid vapour:—6. Concentrated nitric acid dissolves it without change of colour :—7. Concentrated sulphuric acid colours it yellow, and on adding a crystal of bichromate of potassa, green oxide of chro- mium is set free; but without this addition the yellow colour soon passes into a dirty violet-red:—8. A very minute portion mixed with lard, and applied to the eye, produces contraction of the pupil. (Pereira.)^ Dr. Headland recommends, as a physiological test, a like application of a spirituous extract of the acid contents of the stomach to the eye or lips. The l-20th gr. of such extract, or even less, is sufficient. Uses, <^c. It was formerly recommended by Dr. Turnbull, in very minute doses, in neuralgic affections; but is now only used externally, under the form of lotion, embrocation, or ointment, and in the same cases as aconite is serviceable in; from which, indeed, it only differs in its tremendous power. Internally, the commencing dose should not exceed the 1-100th of a gr. See Aconite and Aconitum. ACONTTUM. [L.] Aconite. The pharmaco- poeia! name of aconitum napellus (see below). Aconitum Fe”rox. Fiery Wolfsbane. Hab. Himalaya Mountains. Root (bikii or bish- iioot); the substance with which the Nepaulese poisoned the wells during the advance of the British army into their territory, in the last war; also used to poison the tips of their arrows and other weapons. A native Indian remedy for chronic rheumatism. Aconitum Napell'us. [Linn.] Syn. Aco- ni'tum, Ph. L., E., & D.; Aconit napel, cha- PEEON DE MOINE, Fr. ; EiSENHUT, BlAUEE- STUEMHUT, Ger. Early blue wolfsbane, or deadly aconite. Hab. Various parts of Europe; grows wild in England, flowering in June and July. The fresh and dried leaves (aconiti po"lium), Ph. L. & E. The root (aconiti ea'dix), Ph. L. & D. This is the species of aconite ordered in the pharmacopoeias, and commonly used in medicine. When chewed it imparts a sensation of acrimony, followed by a pungent heat of the lips, gums, palate, and fauces, which is succeeded by a general tremor and chilliness. The juice applied to a wound ’ Geig;er and Hesse state that, in their experiments, there 'vas ‘ dilatation' of tlie pupil