LADANUM—LAKE. 818 fied spirit, agitate the tincture with a little animal charcoal, filter, add a little milk of lime, and evaporate to dryness; digest the residuum in hot rectified spirit, filter, and evaporate by a gentle heat, so that crystals may form. Prop., (^c. A nearly colourless, odourless, fusible, neutral, bitter substance; sparingly soluble in cold water and in ether; but freely soluble in alcohol. It possesses feeble basic properties. Good lactucarium contains fully 20g of this substance. LAD'ANUM. See Labdanum. LAENNEC’S CONTRA-STIMULANT. See Deatjght. LAKE. Syn. Lacca, L. Animal or vegetable colouring matter, precipitated in combination with oxide of tin or alumina; usually the latter. The term was formerly restricted to red preparations of this kind, b\it is now in- discriminately applied to all compounds of alumina and colouring matter. The term ‘ LAKE,’ when unqualified by an adjective, is, however, understood to apply exclusively to that prepared from cochineal. Prep. Lakes are made—1. By adding a solution of alum, either alone or partly satu- rated with carbonate of potassa, to a filtered infusion or decoction of the colouring substance, and after agitation precipitating the mixture with a solution of carbonate of potash.—2. By precipitating a decoction or infusion of the colouring substance made with a weak alkaline lye, by adding a solution of alum.—3. By agi- tating recently precipitated alumina with a solution of the colouring matter, prepared as before, until the liquid is nearly decoloured, or the alumina acquires a sufficiently dark tint. The first method is usually employed for acidulous solutions of colouring matter, or for those whose tint is injured by alkalies; the second, for those that are brightened, or at least uninjured, by alkalies; the third, for those colouring matters that have a great affinity for gelatinous alumina, and readily combine with it by mere agitation. By atten- tion to these general rules, lakes may be pre- pared from almost all animal and vegetable colouring substances that yield their colour to water, many of which will be found to possess great beauty and permanence. The precise process adapted to each particular substance may be easily ascertained by taking a few drops of its infusion or decoction, and observ- ing the effects of alkalies and acids on the colour. The quantity of alum or of alumina employed should be nearly sufficient to de- colour the dye liquor; and the quantity of car- bonate of potassa should be so proportioned to the alum as to exactly precipitate the alumina without leaving free or carbonated alkali in the liquid. The first portion of the precipitate has the deepest colour, and the shade gradually becomes paler as the operation proceeds. A beautiful ‘ tone ’ of violet, red, and even purple, may be communicated to the colouring matter of cochineal by the addition of perchloride oj tin; the addition of arseniate of potassa (neu-, tral arsenical salt) in like manner gives shadesi which may be sought for in vain with alum or alumina. After the lake is precipitated, it must be carefully collected, washed with cold distilled water, or the purest rain water, until it ceases to give out colour, and then carefully dried in the shade. In this state it forms a soft velvety powder. That of the shops is generally made up into conical or pyramidal drops (dkop lake), which is done by dropping the moist lake through a small funnel on a clean hoard or slab, and drying it by a gentle heat as before. A very little clear gum water is commonly added to the paste, to give the drops consistence when dry. Blue Lake. Syn. Lacca ccekelea, L. Pre- pared from some of the blue-coloured fiowers ; fugitive. The name is also applied to lump archil (lacca ccerulea), to moist alumina coloureo with indigo, and to mixed solutions of pearlash and prussiate of potash, precipitated with another solution of sulphate of iron and alum. These are permanent and beautiful, hut are seldom used, in consequence of indigo and Prussian blue supplying all that is wanted in this class of colours. Brazil-wood Lake. Syn. Drop lake ; Lacc^ IN GLOBULIS, L. Prep. 1. Take of grouno. Brazil wood, 1 lb.; water, 4 gall.; digest foi 24 hours, then boil for 30 or 40 minutes, and add of alum, 1^ lb., dissolved in a little water ^ mix, decant, strain, and add of solution of tin 5 lb.; again mix well and filter; to the clea7 liquid add, cautiously, a solution of salt oj tartar or carbonate of soda, as long as a deep- coloured precipitate forms, carefully avoiding excess; collect, wash, dry, &c., as directed above Obs. The product is deep bed. By col-> lecting the precipitate in separate portions,/ lakes varying in richness and depth of colour' may he obtained. The first portion of the precipitated lake has the brightest colour. An excess of alkali turns it on the violet. and the addition of cream of tartar, on the BROWNISH-BED. The tint turns more on the VIOLET RED when the solution of tin is omitted Some persons use less, others more, alum. 2. Add washed and recently precipitatea alumina to a strong and filtered decoction oj Brazil wood. Inferior to the last. Carmina'ted Lake. Syn. Cochineal lake, Florence l., Florentine l., Paris l. Vienna l. ; Lacca Florentina, L. Prep 1. The residuum of the cochinealleit in making carmine is boiled with repeated portions oj water, until it is exhausted of colour; the resulting liquor is mixed with that decantea ojf the carmme, and at once filtered; some recently precipitated alumina is then added, and the whole gently heated, and well agita-, ted for a short time; as soon as the alumina has absorbed sufficient colour, the mixture is allowed to settle, after which the clear portion is decanted, the lake collected on a filter.