SODA. 1209 late of potash is obtained from the ashes of liland vegetables, but it is now generally pre- ared from common salt (chloride of sodium) iy the action of sulphuric acid, carbonaceous latter, and heat. The ashes of marine plants lave been long an article of commerce, under jie names of baeilla, baeilxa ashes, kelp, |lanqtjette, &c., but the carbonate made l-om them is of a very impure description, hat from common salt, when the process has |een well conducted, is much purer. The juantity of carbonate of soda in the ashes of iiarine plants varies from 3 to 40g. ; Prep. 1. (From COMMON SALT or SULPHATE F SODA.) The latter is generally obtained by lecomposing the former with sulphuric acid, Ihe evolved gas being passed into water, or ;lirough flues fllled with coke, over which a ery small stream of cold water constantly jows, by which it is condensed, and forms ‘ li- UID HTDEOCHLOEIC ACID,’ a substance after- I'ards consumed, in large quantities, in the iianufacture of chloride of lime, and for other [urposes. The sulphate of soda, obtained from liis or any other source, is well mixed with an qual weight of chalk or limestone, and about alf its weight of small coal, each being pre- iously ground to powder, and the mixture is Ixposed to a strong heat in a ‘ reverberatory larnace’ (see engr.) until the decomposition of ihe sulphate is complete, the mass during the lalcination being frequently stirred about with I j I Scotch Soda furnace. I 1 long iron rod; the semi-liquid is now raked |ito an iron trough, where it is allowed to jool, whilst the furnace is recharged with |resh materials. The crude dark-gray product, |hus obtained, is known as ‘ ball alkali,’ or iBeitish baeilla,’ and usually contains about 2 or 23§ of pure soda. This is now lixiviated dth tepid water, and the solution, after defeca- ion, evaporated to dryness; the residuum is lixed with a certain quantity of sawdust, coal- 'ust, or charcoal, and roasted in a reverbera- ory furnace, at a heat not exceeding 700° 'ahr., until all the sulphur is expelled. The roduct is the ‘soda-ash,’ ‘soda salt,’ or ; British alkali,’ of commerce, and contains ibout 50g of pure soda, partly in the state of larbonate, and partly as hydrate, the remainder j'eing chiefly sulphate of soda and common lalt. When this is purified by solution in ji’ater, defecation, evaporation, and crystalliza- jion, it furnishes commercial crystallized CARBONATE OF SODA. When this last is redis- solved, and the filtered solution is carefully crystallized, it constitutes the ordinary car- bonate OF SODA used in pharmacy and medi- cine. Sulphate of soda, treated as above, yields about 168§ of crude soda at 33 per cent., or 130§ of the crystallized carbonate. (Ure.) 2. From the ashes of marine plants. See above. 3. (Chemically pure.) From pure bicar- bonate or acetate of soda, heated to redness in a platinum crucible. 4. (Dried; Sod.® carbonas exsiccata— Ph. L., Sod.® carbonas siccatum—Ph. E. & D.)—a. (Ph. L.) Take of carbonate of soda, 1 lb.; expose it to heat until the crystals fall to powder, next heat it to redness, and, when cold, rub it to powder. b. Expose the salt, reduced to coarse pow- der, to the air, in a dry and warm situation, when it will rapidly effloresce and fall into a pulverulent state, not liable to further change. (See below.) Prop., 8(c. Carbonate of soda forms large, transparent, oblique rhombic prisms, which, as ordinarily met with, contain 10 equivalents of water, but by particular management may be had with fifteen, nine, seven, or sometimes with only one (Fownes); it is soluble in twice its weight of water at 60°, and less than an equal weight at 212° Fahr. As a medicine, it is deobstruent and antacid, and is given in doses of 10 to 30 gr. It is also, occasionally, used . to make effervescing draughts. When taken in an overdose, it is poisonous. The an- tidotes are the same as for carbonate of potassa. The crude carbonate is largely employed in the manufacture of soap, glass, &c. 53 gr. of the dried carbonate of soda are equal to 143 of the crystallized salt. The medicinal properties of both are similar. It has, however, the disadvantage of being diffi- cultly soluble in water. “ It is (entirely) so- luble in water; 100 gr., treated with dilute sulphuric acid, lose 40*7 gr. of carbonic acid.” (Ph. L.) Dose. 5 to 20 gr., in pills or pow- der ; in calculus, &c. Pur. The ordinary carbonate of soda gene- rally contains either sulphates or chlorides, and frequently both. These impurities may be detected in the manner noticed under Car- bonate OF POTASSA (page 1113). “After saturation with hydrochloric acid, chloride of barium throws down nothing from its solu- tion. 100 gr. at a high temperature lose 62-5 gr. of water. A like quantity added to dilute sulphuric acid evolves 15’28 of carbonic acid.” (Ph. L.) It should be “totally soluble in water, but not at all in alcohol.” (Ph, L. 1836.) “A solution of 21 gr. in 1 fl. oz. of water, precipitated by 19 gr. of nitrate of ba- ryta, remains precipitable % more of the test; and the precipitate is entirely soluble in nitric acid.” (Ph. E.) Its solution is not disturbed by the addition of a solution of picric acid in I