CADMIUM. 377 2. (Wollaston.) Xsqlutionofthe ore obtained as above is placed in a platinum capsule, and a piece of metallic zinc is plunged into it. In a ! short time the cadmium is precipitated, and i attaches itself to the sides of the capsule, when it is collected, washed, and dried, I 3. (Herapath.) When zinc is obtained by ! } distilling its ores, per descensum, the first por- tion of the metallic fumes evolved burn with a brownish fiame, and deposit oxide of cad- mium, which is subsequently reduced by dis- tillation with charcoal. Thousands of pounds 1 of cadmium are yearly wasted at the zinc works which might be easily collected in a similar manner. Prop., Sfc. Resembles tin in most of its i physical properties, being white, soft, and mal- leable. Sp. gr. 8'61. Stromeyer gives its melting point as 442'^ Fahr., but Dr. Wood, an American chemist, states that the metal re- quires for its fusion nearly the same heat as 1 lead, and gives it as about 600° Fahr. It vo- , latilizes at a somewhat higher temperature, i giving off orange-coloured, suffocating fumes, which, when inhaled too freely, leave a dis- L agreeable, sweetish, styptic sensation upon the I lips, and a persistent brassy taste in the mouth, with constriction of the throat, heaviness in I the head, and nausea. The alloys of cadmium 1 are said to be brittle, by almost all who have treated of them, but Wood found that many I were extremely tenacious, as, for instance, the combination of 2 parts of silver and 1 part of 5 cadmium, which is perfectly malleable and very II strong. The amalgam of equal parts of cad- !mium and mercury is also highly malleable. Like bismuth, cadmium has the property of i promoting fusibility in certain alloys; thus, a ( remarkable fusible metal may be formed by I melting together cadmium 1 to 2 parts, lead 2 j jiarts, and tin 4 parts. 7'ests. Its ores and salts are recognised as I follows :—1. Mixed with carbonate of soda, ’ and exposed on a charcoal support to the re- 1 duciny flame of the blowpipe, the charcoal be- comes almost instantly covered with a reddish- yellow incrustation of oxide of cadmium, com- monly forming a circle or zone.—2. Caustic soda and potassa give a white precipitate {hy- drated oxide) in solutions containing cadmium, insoluble in excess of the precipitant.—3. Am- monia gives a similar white precipitate, freely soluble in excess.—4. The alkaline carbonates (ammonia, potassa, soda) give white precipi- tates [carbonate of cadmium), insoluble in ex- cess.—5. Sulphuretted hydrogen, and hydro- sulphuret of ammonia, give a bright-yellow precipitate {sulphuret of cadmium), which is I insoluble in dilute acid, alkalies, sulphurets, and cyanide of potassium, but readily soluble in both hydrochloric acid and nitric acid, es- pecially with heat.—6. The salts of cadmium are readily distinguished from those of arsenic, by the precipitated sulphuret (see 5) being in- soluble in ammonia, and soluble in hydrochloric acid, and being capable of sustaining a white heat without subliming. Car'bonate of Cadmium. Syn. Cad'mii car'- BONAS, L. From a solution of sulphate or chloride of cadmium, and an alkaline carbonate ; the precipitate being collected, washed, and dried by a gentle heat. A white powder. Chlo"ride of Cadmium (id). Syn. Hydeo- CHL0"RATE of cadmium, Mu"EIATE of CAD- MIUM; Cad'mii chloeFdum, Cad'mii hydro- CHLO"eas, L. Prep. 1. (Pure.) By dissolving carbonate or oxide of cadmium in hydrochloric acid, and crystallizing by gentle evaporation. Prismatic crystals; very soluble in water. 2. (Turner.) By exposing the product of the last process to heat. Amorphous. 3. From crude cadmium or its oxide, and hydrochloric acid, as last. I'odide of Cadmium. Syn. Hydei'odate OF CADMIUM; Cad'mii iodi'dum, C. hy^- drio'das, L. Prep. (Crookes.) Cadmium in filings 1 part, pure iodine 2 parts, are to be placed together in a capacious, flask, with alcohol, sufficient to cover them. Action commences at once, at- tended with considerable evolution of heat; when it ceases, heat the mixture till it is colourless; then filter from a few grains of cadmium which will remain undissolved, eva- porate and crystallize. Uses. In photography this salt has lately been employed with great success for iodizing collodion. Being very stable, it is not decom- posed, and the collodion iodized with it pre- serves its sensitiveness undiminished during many months. (See Collodion.) Iwmedicine it is used occasionally as a substitute for iodide of lead. Oxide of Cadmium. Syn. Peotox'ide of cad- mium ; Cad'mii oxy'dum, L. Prep. 1. (Hy- drated.) From sulphate or hydrochlorate of cadmium, and a solution of caustic alkali; ob- serving to well wash and dry the precipitate. A white powder, freely soluble in acids. 2. (Anhydrous.) By igniting the hydrated oxide, or the carbonate or nitrate of cadmium. That from the first two has a pale-brown colour; that from the nitrate has a dark- brown tint and a semi-crystalline appearance. The former has been proposed to be used as a pigment. Phos'phuret of Cadmium. Syn. Phos'phide OF CADMIUM. By direct union of the ele- ments by heat. Sul'phate of Cadmium. Syn. Cad'mii sul'- PHAS, Cad'mium sulphu'eicum, Klapeo'- THEIUM sulphu'eicum, L. Prep. 1. From carbonate or oxide of cadmium and dilute sul- phuric acid, as the chloride. 2. (Cottereau.) Oxide of cadmium, 1 oz. ; sulphuric acid, q. s.; dissolve, evaporate, and crystallize. 3. (Pereira.) Sulphuric acid, 6^ parts; water, 15 parts; mix; add cadmium, 7 parts; dissolve, evaporate to dryness, redissolve in