ARNICINE—ARRO W-ROOT. 209 I I Severe abdominal pains and vertigo, and even tetanus and death, have followed exces- I sive doses. Obs. According to Dupuytren, the emetic i action of * infusion of arnica^ depends on mi- : nute particles of the down of the plant which remain suspended in it, and which may he I removed by filtration. See Infusions, Tinc- I TUBES, &c. i AR'NICINE ( -sin). This name has been applied to two substances—the one discoveied by PfafF; the other, by Bastick :— I Arnicine (of Pfaff). The resinous matter ! extracted by alcohol from the roofs arid Jlowers of mountain arnica, and in which their acri- dity appears to reside. I Arnicine (of Bastick). Syn. Aenici'na, 1 Abni"cia (-msh'.y’a), L. Prep. 1. (Bastick.) i From the flowers, by a similar process to that by which he obtains lobelina.—2. From the flowers (or root), as directed under Aeicina. 1 Prop., 8(c. Bitter; acrid; crystallisable; i scarcely soluble in water; soluble in alcohol and ether; forms salts with the acids, the hydro- chlorate, and one or two others, being crystal- I lisable.^ Its physiological properties and dose, I have not as yet been accurately determined. I ARNATT'O, Arnott'o. See Annotta. ARO'MA. [L.] Syn. Aeome, Fr.; Aeom, Geeuchstoff, Ger. Tlie characteristic odour ' of substances, particularly the peculiar quality I of plants, and of substances derived from I them, which constitutes their fragrance. AROMA'TA [L.] See Aeomatic. AROMATTC. Syn. Aeomat'icus, L. ; Aeo- IMATIQUE, Fr. j GEWiiEZHAFT, Ger. Fra- j grant; odoriferous; spicy; applied chiefly to I plants and their products (Aeomatics, A. PLANTS ; AeOMA'TA, AEOMAT'ICA, L. j AEOMA- TIQUES, EPICES, Fr.; Gewuez, Ger.) cha- racterised by their spicy odour or aroma, and warm pungent flavour, and of which allspice, cinnamon, cloves, lavender, pepper, rosemary, sage, &c., are well-known examples. They are all stimulant, carminative, and antiseptic ; and from remote antiquity have been regarded as prophyla(!tic and disinfectant.^ Aromatic. In medicine, pharmacy, per- fumery, S^c., applied to substances, simple or compound, characterised by an agreeable odour I or carminative properties, or both; as aromatic ' confection, a. 2)astilles, a. vinegar, a. bark (‘COE- TEX AEOMATicus,^ white canella), &c. ARQUEBUSADE' (ar-ke-bbo-zade'). [Fr.] Primarily the shot of an arquebuse; but after- wards applied to an aromatic spirit (eau d’ae- QUEI3USADE, Fr.), Originally employed as an ap- plication to gun-shot (arquebuse) wounds. See Eau d’Aequebusade and Spieit (Vulnerary). ; AR'RACK (arracAr'^Brande). [Ind.3] Syn. . ^ “ Pharm. Journ.,” x. 386. * Acron, of Agrigentuni, is said to have stopped the j ravages of the plague at Atliens, b. c. 473, hy burning aromatics. {“ Nouv. Did. Fr.”) ® Arrack, or its corruption rack, is applied, as a general term, to an;/ spirituous liquor in the £. 1.; but specilicallv only to tliat noticed in the Text. Abac, Aback, RackJ§; Palm-spieit; Ae- EAC'CA, Spie'itus Pal'm.®, S. suc'ci p., S. OEY'ziE*, L. j Aback, Fr.; Aeak, Ger. A spiri- tuous liquor imported from the East Indies. The flner qualities are distilled from the fer- mented juice {toddy,palm-wine) oithe cocoa-nut tree, palmyra-tree, and other palms; and the other kinds, from the infusion of unhusked rice {rice-beer), fermented with cocoa-nut or palm- juice, either with or without the addition of coarse sugar or jaggery. Prop., 8(c. It is colourless or nearly so, but like other spirit, when long kept in wood, gra- dually acquires a slight tinge, similar to that of old Hollands. The best kinds, when of sufficient age, are pleasant-flavoured, and are probably as wholesome as the other spirits of commerce; but common arrack has a strong and somewhat nauseous flavour and odour, depending on the presence of volatile oil de- rived from the rice, and corresponding to tliat of corn-spirit. The inferior qualities are hence more heating and apt to disagree with the stomach than the other commercial spirits. In this country it is chiefly used to make punch. VHien sliced pine-apples are put into good arrack, and the spirit kept for some time, it mellows down and acquires a most delicious flavour, and is thought by many to be then unrivalled for making ‘nectarial punch’ or ‘ rack-punch.’ Obs. Batavian arrack is most esteemed; then that of Madras ; and next that of China. Others are regarded as inferior. The common par'iah-arrack is generally narcotic, very in- toxicating, and unwholesome; being com- monly prepared from coarse jaggery, spoilt toddy, refuse rice, <^c., and rendered more intoxicating by the addition of hemp-leaves, poppy-heads, juice of stramonium, and other deleterious substances. Facti"tious Arrack. Syn. Mock ae'eack, BeitTsh a. ; Vauxhall' nec’tae ; &c. Prep. Good old Jamaica-rum (uncoloured), rectified spirit (54 to 56 o. p.; clean flavoured), and water, of each, 1 quart; flowers of benzoin, 1 dr.; sliced pine-apple, i oz. (or essence of pine-apple, | teaspoonful); digest, with occa- sional agitation, for a fortnight; then add of skimmed milk, 1 wine-glassful; agitate well for 15 minutes, and in a few days decant the clear portion. AR'ROW-ROOT. The common name of maran'ta arundina'cea (Linn.; m. In'dica— Tuss.) ; a plant of the nat. ord., Marantaceae (Lindl.; Cannaceae—Endl.). It was originally brought from the island of Dominica to Bar- bados, by Col. James Walker. It has since been extensively cultivated in the West Indies. Roots, reputed to be alexipharmic or antidotal; expressed juice of root, recently extolled as an antidote to poisons taken into the stomach, and to the bites and stings of venomous in- sects and animals;'* tubers, yield true akkow- UOOT; when fresh and good they contain about * “Phann. Journ.,” vi. 23. 14