CREAM. 488 of a stiff paste or dough, is introduced into the open end, and is forced down and through the holes, by means of a small plug or piston, that exactly fits the inside of the cylinder, and which is driven hy the equable motion of a small screw. The pieces that pass through the holes are then cut into holes and dried. The substances employed as colouring matters for crayons are very numerous, and their choice offers a wide field for the skill and fancy of the artist. The pigment having been selected, it may he reduced to any shade or tint by admixture with other pigments, and hy * dilution’ wdth a proper quantity of elu- triated or prepared chalk. As, however, crayon colours do not admit of being mixed together at the time of using them, like liquid colours, it is usual to make 3 to 6 different shades of each colour, so as to enable the artist at once to produce any effect he chooses. Black Crayons. From prepared black-lead, ivory-black, lamp-black, &c. Black chalk and charcoal are frequently made into crayons by simply sawing them into suitably sized pieces. They may then be put into a pipkin of melted wax, and allowed to macerate for an hour; after which they should be taken oiit, drained, and laid on a piece of blotting-paper to dry. Drawings made with these crayons are very per- manent, and if warmed slightly on the wrong side, the lines will adhere, and become almost as durable as ink. Blue Crayons. From indigo, smalts, Prus- sian blue, verdHer, &c. Brown Crayons. From umber (raw and burnt), terra di sienna (raw and burnt), Cul- len’s earth, brown ochre, &c.; and some pecu- liar shades, from a mixture of black, carmine, and either of the above colours. Green Crayons. From a mixture of king’s yellow, or yellow ochre, with blues. Purple Crayons. From any of the more brilliant blues, mixed w'ith carmine, lake, or vermilion. Red Crayons. From carmine, carminated lakes, vermilion, hematite, and any of the earthy or minerat colours commonly used as pigTuents. Crayons of red chalk may be pre- pared in the manner pointed out for crayons of black chalk. White Crayons. From pure clay and chalk. Yellow Crayons. From king’s yellow, Naples yellow, orpiment, yellow ochre, &c. Lithograph'ic Crayons. Prep. 1. Tallow-soap, 7 parts; while wax, 6 parts; melt by a gentle heat, and add lamp-black, 1 part; keep it melted, with constant stirring, for 20 or 30 minutes, then let it cool a little, and cast it into moulds. 2. White wax, 4 parts; shell-lac and hard tallow soap, of each, 2 parts; lamp-black, 1 part; as last. 3. Spermaceti, white wax, and hard tallow- soap, of each, equal parts; lamp-black, q.s. to colour. Obs. Some makers melt the soap, wax, and lamp-black, in an iron-ladle, over a brisk fire, . and allow the mixture to blaze for a few * seconds before adding the shell-lac, which is no sooner thoroughly incorporated than the heat is increased imtil the mass again kindles, when it is at once removed from the fire and stirred until it is cool enough to be poured into the moulds. This method leads to trouble and loss, without any corresponding advantage. These crayons are used to draw designs on lithographic stones. Crayons for Writing on Glass. Prep. 1. From French chalk cut into suitable pieces. Marks made with these crayons, when ob- scured or rubbed out, may be several times revived by simply breathing on the glass. 2. (Brunquelle.) Spermaceti, 4 parts, tallow, 3 parts, wax, 2 parts, are melted together in a cup ; and red lead, 6 parts, and carbonate of potassa (in fine powder), 1 part, stirred in; the mass is kept melted and stirred for about half an hour longer, then poured into glass moulds (tubes) of the thickness of a common pencil, and cooled as rapidly as possible. The mass may be screwed up and down in the tube, and cut to a point with a knife. A crayon is thus obtained which will readily write upon clean, dry glass. CREAM. Syn. Crem'or, C. lac'tis, Flos lac'tis, L. The oleaginous portion of milk, which collects in a thin stratum upon the sur- face, when that fluid is left undisturbed for some time. By violent agitation, as in the process of churning, the fatty globules unite together, forming butter; whilst the liquid portion, consisting of caseum, serum, and a little butter, constituting the residuum, is called BUTTER-MILK. This separation is ef- fected the most readily when the cream has become partially sour and coagulated by being kept a few days, a change which occurs in consequence of the conversion of some of the sugar of the serum into lactic acid, which pre- cipitates the caseous matter contained in the small portion of the milk with which the cream is mixed. On these simple facts chiefly depend the successful manufacture of butter. The cream intended for churning should there- fore be kept until it turns slightly sour, and assumes the condition above referred to, as then the butter will readily *come.’ If churned while quite sweet, the operation will be tedious, and will frequently fail. When this happens, the dairy maids declare the milk is ‘charmed’ or ‘bewutched,’ and reluctantly proceed with the operation. The addition of a little rennet, or vinegar, is the proper remedy in this case, and will cause the almost imme- diate separation of the butter. ! When cream is suspended in a linen bag, and I allowed to drain, it gradually becomes drier I and harder, by the separation of the liquid n portion, and then forms what is known by the ' name of cream cheese. By the application . of slight pressure, the separation of the whey