SOAPS (TOILET). \-a8S, i oz.; lastly, form the mass into flat jiblets, and wrap these in thin sheet gutta isrcha. A most excellent detergent and sti- (lulant soap in various affections, admirably iapted for hospital use, and for removing l ains from the skin and rendering it white. }; is the most powerfully known agent against [ifection from contagious diseases communi- ible by contact. Cro'ton Soap. Syn. Sapo ceotonis, L. \rep. [From croton oil and liquor of potassa, jjual parts; triturated together in a warm ! ortar until they combine. Cathartic. Dose. I to 3 gr. Soap of Gua'iacum. Syn. Sapo guaiaci, !iPO GUAIACINTTS, L. Prep. (Pli. Bor.) liquor of potassa, 1 oz.; water, 2 oz.; mix in a brcelain capsule, apply heat, and gradually Id of resin of guaiacum (in powder), 6 dr., or |i much as it will ^dissolve; next decant or i ter, and evaporate to a pilular consistence, josc. 10 to 30 gr.; in chronic rheumatism, jirious skin diseases, &c. I'odine Soap. Syn. Sapo lonrEATrs, L. rep. From Castile soap (sliced), 1 lb.; iodide 'potassium, 1 oz. ; (dissolved in) water, 3 f. '.; melt them together in a glass or porce- in vessel, over a water bath. Excellent in irious skin diseases; also as a common soap r scrofulous subjects. Soap of Jal'ap. See page 804. i Macquer’s Acid Soap. Syn. Sapo vitrioli- 7S, L. Prep. From Castile soap, 4 oz., •ftened by heat and a little water, and then )ntinually triturated in a mortar with oil f vitriol (added drop by drop). Deter- 3nt. Used where alkalies would be preju- [Icial. i Mercu"rial Soap. Syn. Sapo meecttrialis, . Prep. 1. (Sapo stjblimatis coeeosivi.) jrom Castile soap (in powder) 4 oz. ; corrosive iblimate, 1 dr.; (dissolved in) rectified spirit, fl. oz.; beaten to a uniform mass in a porce- in or wedgwood-ware mortar. 2. (Sapo hybraegyri precipitati ritbei i-Sir H. Marsh.) From white Windsor soap, \ oz.; nitric oxide of mercury (levigated), dr.; otto of roses, 6 or 8 drops; (dissolved i) rectified spirit, 1 to 2 fl. dr.; as the last, oth the above are employed as stimulant de- j'rgents and repellants, in various skin dis- jises; also as savon antisyphilitique. : Sul'phuretted Soap. Syn. Sapo sulpheris, |AP0 SULPHIJRATUS, L. Prep. (Sir H. Marsh.) Irom white soap, 2 oz.; sublimed sulphur, i oz.; beaten to a smooth paste in a marble jiortar with 1 or 2 fl. dr. of rectified spirit jrongly coloured with alkanet root, and jolding in solution otto of roses, 10 or 12 jrops. In itch and various other cutaneous lUeases. i Tar Soap. Syn. Sapo picis liquid.®, Sapo jlCEUS, L. Prep. From tar, 1 part; liquor of p/om and soap (in shavings), of each, 2 [arts; beat them together until they unite, jtimulant. Used in psoriasis, lepra, &c. 1207 Tur'pentine Soap. Syn. Starkey’s soap; Sapo terebinthin®:, S. terebinthinatus, L. Savon t^rebinthine, Fr. Prep. (P. Cod.) Subcarbonate of potash, oil of turpen- tine, and Venice turpentine, equal parts; tritu- rate them together, in a warm mortar, with a little water, until they combine; put the pro- duct into paper moulds, and in a few days slice it, and preserve it in a well-stopped bottle. SOAPS (Toilet). Of Toilet soaps there are two principal varieties :— 1. (Hard.) The basis of these is, gene- rally, a mixture of suet, 9 parts, and olive oil, 1 part, saponifled by caustic soda ; the product is variously scented and coloured. They are also made of white tallow, olive, almond, and palm-oil soaps, either alone or combined in various proportions, and scented. ■2. (Soft.) The basis of these is a soap made of hog's lard and potash, variously scented and coloured. On the small scale, the perfume is generally added to the soap melted in a bright copper pan by the heat of a water bath; on the large scale, it is mixed with the liquid soap, at the soap-maker’s, before the latter is poured into the frames. The following are examples of a few of the leading toilet soaps — Bitter-al'mond Soap. Syn. Savon d’Amande, Fr. Prep. From white tallow soap, 56 lb.; essential oil of almonds, | lb.; as bel'ore. Savon au Bouquet. [Fr.] Prep. From tallow soap, 30 lb.; olive-oil soap, 10 lb.; es- sence of bergamot, 4 oz.; oils of cloves, sassa- fras, and thyme, of each, 1 oz.; pure neroli, ^ oz.; brown ochre (finely powdered), ^ lb.; mixed as the last. Cin'namon Soap. Prep. From tallow soap, 14 lb. / palm-oil soap, 7 lb.; oil of cinnamon (cassia), 3 oz.; oil of sassafras "’and essence of bergamot, of each, ^ oz.; levigated yellow ochre, \ lb. Floating Soap. Prep. From good oil soap, 14 lb.; water, 3 pints; melted together by the heat of a steam or water bath, and assidu- ously beaten until the mixture has at least doubled its volume, when it must be put into the frames, cooled, and cut into pieces. Any scent may be added. Hon'ey Soap. Prep. 1. From palm-oil soap and olive-oil soap, of each, 1 part; curd soap, 3 parts; melted together and scented with the oil of verbena, rose-geranium, or ginger- grass. 2. From the finest bright-coloured yellow soap, scented with the oils of ginger-grass and bergamot. Musk Soap. As cinnamon soap, but with essence of musk, supported with a little essence of bergamot and oil of cloves, as perfume, and burnt sugar, to colour. Naples Soap. From olive oil and potash. Orange-flower Soap. As Savon a la rose, with oil of neroli or essence de petit grain, sup- 1 See also Savonettes.