PHOSPHORUS, i 1057 tilized through a layer of powdered bichloride of mercury, contained in a glass tube; ter- ohloride of phosphorus conies over, which, on leing mixed with water, is resolved into hydro- chloric acid and phosphorous acid; by evapo- ^■ating the mixed liquid to the consistence of |i syrup, the first is expelled, and the residuum [brins a crystalline mass of hydrated phos- j)horous acid on cooling. \ Prop., 8fc. It is a powerful deoxidizing igent. Heated in a closed vessel, it is resolved lato hydrated phosphoeic acid and pure |■HOSPHnRETTED HYDROGEN GAS. With the jiases it forms salts, called phosphites, which Possess little practical importance. I PHOS'PHORUS. Syn. Phosphorus (Ph. L.), L A remarkable elementary substance, dis- pvered by Brandt, a chemist of Hamburg, li 1669. I Prep. This is now only conducted on the irge scale: '—Bone-ash (in powder), 12 parts, lid water, 24 parts, are stirred together in a irge tub until the mixture is reduced to a eriectly smooth ‘j>ap'; oil of vitriol, 8 parts, then added in a slender stream, active stir- ng being employed during the whole time, id afterwards until the combination appears nnplete; the next day the mass is thinned ith cold water, and, if convenient, heated in leaden pan or boiler until it has entirely st its granular character; it is now trans- rred to one or a series of tall casks (accord- g to the extent of the batch), and further luted with a larye quantity of water / after ipose, the clear liquid is decanted, the sedi- ent washed with water, and the ‘ washings ^ id ‘ decanted liquor ^ evaporated in a leaden r copper boiler until the white calcareous Sposit (gypsum) becomes considerable; the hole is then allowed to cool, the clear por- pn decanted, and the sediment thoroughly •ained on a filter; the liquid thus obtained evaporated in an iron pot to the consistence a thick syrup (say 4 parts), when dry char- al (in powder), 1 part, is added, and the isiccation continued until the bottom of the >t becomes nearly red hot, after which it is vered over and allowed to cool; the dry ixture, when cold, is put into one or more rthen retorts well covered with luting* and ■operly dried, and heat is applied (sideways ther than at the bottom) by means of a 'od air-furnace; after a short time the beak the retort is connected with a copper tube, e other end of which is made to dip about e fourth of an inch beneath the surface of 'me lukewarm water placed in a trough or ide-mouthed bottle. [The distilled product purified by squeezing through chamois leather under warm water, d is then moulded for sale by melting it der water heated to about 145° Fabr., and eking it up to any desired height in slightly periiig, but perfectly straight, glass tubes, eviously warmed and wetted. The bottom the tube being now closed with the finger, it is withdrawn, and transferred to a pan of cold water to congeal the phosphorus, which will then commonly fall out, or may be easily expelled by pressure with a piece of wire. Prop., (^c. Phosphorus, in its normal con- dition, is a pale yellow, semi-transparent, and highly combustible solid; soft and flexible at common temperatures; it becomes waxy at about 75° Fahr.; melts at about 111° and boils at 550° Fahr.; it takes fire in the air at 165°, and oxidates at all temperatures above 32°. Exposed to the air below 60°, its surface is slowly converted into phosphorous acid. It is apparently insoluble in water, but it conveys its peculiar flavour and odour to that fluid when agitated with it; it is slightly soluble in ether, naphtha, and the fixed and volatile oils, and more freely so in bisulphuret of carbon. It unites with oxygen, forming oxides and ACIDS, and with the metals, forming phos- PHURETS. Phosphorus is remarkable for assuming se- veral allotropic forms. In one of these forms (amorphous phosphorus) its properties are so altered that they might be those of a dis- tinct element. See below. Pur. ‘^Almost colourless; resembles wax; transparent; shines in the dark. It ought to be kept in water, and shut out from access of light.'' (Ph. L.) A small fragment heated at one end of a long closed tube should be vola- tilized, without residue, from the end to which the fire is applied. 31 gr. (dried by blotting paper) burned rapidly with free admission of air, in a tube or under a bell-glass, should yield fully 70 gr. of a snow-like substance, which is wholly soluble in water, to a clear, colourless solution; this solution is not affected by sulphuretted hydrogen, and, after agitation for some time with 100 gr. of dry precipitated carbonate of lime, the clear portion is volati- lized without the least residue. Uses. The principal consumption of phos- phorus is in the manufacture of lucipee MATCHES.^ When swallowed, it acts as a powerful corrosive poison ; but small doses of its ethereal and oily solutions are occasionally administered in cases of chronic debility, ex- treme prostration of the nervous powers, im- potency, &c. Its action is that of a powerful diffusible stimulant and diuretic; it is also aphrodisiac. Its use requires great caution, and the effects must be narrowly watched. The treatment of poisoning by phosphorus consists of the administration of a powerful emetic and the copious use of mucilaginous drinks. Concluding remarks. From the great in- flammability of phosphorus it can only be safely preserved under -water. In commerce, it is always packed in tin cylinders filled with water, and soldered up air-tight. The lead- ing points to be observed to ensure success in this manufacture are chiefly connected with the firing. “ The heat of the furnace should • 1 See 'page 888. 67