875 MAGNESIAN APERIENT—MAGNESIUM. oold with water and carbonate of baryta or of lime, an alkaline solution of carbonate of soda is obtained when Glauber salt is present. Digested in alcohol, the filtered liquid does not yield a precipitate with nitrate of silver, nor burn with a yellow flame, and evaporates without residue. “Not deliquescent in the air.” (Ph. L.) “ Sulphuric acid dropped into the solution should not expel any fumes of hydrochloric acid. 100 gr. dissolved in water, and mixed with a boiling solution of carbonate of soda, yield 34 gr. of carbonate of mag- nesia when dried.” (Ph. L. 1836.) 100 gr. of the pure crystallized sulphate yield 16^ gr. of calcined magnesia. (Pereira.) “ 10 gr., dissolved in 1 fi. oz. of w'ater, and treated with a solution of carbonate of ammonia, are not entirely precipitated by 280 minims of solution of phosphate of soda.” (Ph. E.) Usesy 4’C. Sulphate of magnesia is an ex- cellent cooling purgative, and sometimes proves diuretic and diaphoretic. Bose. 1 dr. to 1 oz., as a purgative, or an antidote in pois- oning by lead. Large doses should be avoided. Instances are on record of their having proved fatal. Dr. Christison mentions the case of a boy 10 years old, who swallowed 2 oz. of salts, and died within 10 minutes. The best anti- dot e is an emetic. A small quantity of Epsom salts, largely diluted with water (as a drachm to ^ pint or f ijint), will usually purge as much as the common dose. This increase of power has been shown by Liebig to result rather from the quantity of water than the salt. Bure water is greedily taken up by the ab- sorbents ; but water holding in solution saline matter is rejected by those vessels, and con- sequently passes off by the intestines. Obs. Oxalic acid has occasionally been mis- taken for Epsom salt, with fatal results. They may be readily distinguished from each other by the following characteristics:— Epsoii Salt. Tastes extremely bit- ter and nauseous. Turns milky when dissolved in water and mixed with carbonate of soda or carbonate of pot- assa; and after a time, a white se- diment subsides. Oxalic Acid. Tastes extremely sour. Effervesces when mixed with car- bonate of soda or carbonate of pot- assa, and the li- quid in a few se- conds becomes transparent. Tar'trate of Magnesia. Sxjn. Magnesias TAETRAS, Magnesia taetaeica, L. Brep. Dy saturating a solution of tartaric acid with carbonate of magnesia, and gently evaporating to dryness. It is only very slightly soluble in water. Dose. “ 20 to GO gr., or more“ in painful chronic maladies of the spleen.” (Pe- reira, ex Radmacher.) The effervescing tar- trate of magnesia commonly sold under the name ‘ citrate’ has already been noticed. Tjvrtrate of Magnesia. ?-Jid Potas'sj^, Syn. POTASSIO-TAETEATE OE MAGNESIA; MaGNESIJE POTASSIO-TAETEAS, M. ET POTASS.E TAETEAS, L. Brep. From cream of tartar (in powder,) 7 parts; carbonate of magnesia, 2 parts; water, 165 parts; boiled until the solution is complete, and then evaporated and crystallized. A mild aperient. Dose. 1 to 5 dr.; in scurvy, Ac. MAGNE'SIAN APE”RIENT (Effervescing). Brep. 1. Heavy carbonate of magnesia, 2 lb. ; tartaric acid and double refined lump sugar, of each, 1^ lb. ; bicarbonate of soda (dried with- out heat), 1 lb.; each separately dried and in very fine pov/der; essential oils of orange and lemon, of each, ^ fl. dr.; mix well in a warm, dry situation, pass the whole through a sieve, put it into warm, dry bottles, and keep them well corked. 2. As the last, but substituting calcined magnesia, 1 lb., for the heavy carbonate, and adding sugar, f lb. The preceding furnish a very pleasant effervescing saline draught. 3. (Moxon’s.)—a. Take of sulphate of mag- nesia, 2 lb.; dry it by a gradually increased heat, powder, add of tartaric acid (also dried and powdered), 1^ lb. ; calcined magnesia, i lb. ; finely powdered white sugar, 3 lb.; bicarbonate of soda (dried Avithout heat), 1 lb. ; essence of lemon, 1 dr.; mix, and proceed as before. b. (Durande.) Carbonate of magnesia, 1 part; bicarbonate of soda, tartrate of soda and potassa (sel de Seignette), and tartaric acid, of each, 2 parts ; mix as before. c. (Pharm. Journ.) Sulphate of magnesia and bicarbonate of soda, of each, 1 lb.; tar- taric acid, ^ lb. ; mix as before. The last two are much less agreeable than the others. 4'. Carbonate of magnesia, 2 parts; calcined magnesia, 4 parts; citric acid, 13 parts; lump sugar, 25 parts; essence of lemon, q. s. to fla- vour. Very agreeable. This is knoAvn as ‘ Roge’s Puegatif.’ Obs. The above are very useful and po- pular medicines in indigestion, heartburn, nausea, habitual costiveness, dyspepsia, &c. Dose. ^ to 2 dessert-spoonfuls, thrown into a tumbler 3 parts filled with cold Avater, rapidly stirred and drunk whilst effervescing, early in the morning fasting, or betAveen breakfast and dinner. MAGNESIAN LEMONADE'. See Citeate OF Magnesia {above) and Lemonade (Ape- rient). MAGNE'SIUM. Syn. Magnium, Talcium. The metallic base of magnesia. The exist- ence of this metal wms demonstrated by Sir H. Davy, in 1808; but it AA^as first obtained in sufficient quantity to examine its proper- ties by Bussy, in 1830. Brep. 5 or 6 pieces of potassium or sodium, about the size of peas, are introduced into a test-tube, and covered Avith small fragments of chloride of magnesium ; the latter is then heated to near its point of fusion, Avhen the flame of the lamp is applied to the potassium, so that its vapour may pass through the stratum of h?[vt?d cWoridej when the vivid