-MACE. II LUPUS- 869 ijbing and sifting them. Dose. 5 to 10 gr.; as an anodyne, tonic, &c. i 2. The aromatic bitter principle of hops. I Prep. The aqueous extract of the yellow pow- \\der or lupulinic grains of the strobiles, along with a little lime, are treated with rectified 1 spirit; the filtered tincture is evaporated to t* dryness, redissolved in water, and the solution ) is again filtered, and evaporated to dryness; the residuum is, lastly, washed with ether, and f allowed to dry. ~ Prop., ^c. The latter product is a yellow- ish-white, bitter, uncrystallizable substance, ■ soluble in 20 parts of water, very soluble in ■ , alcohol, and slightly so in ether. The yellow’ . powder above alluded to (No. 1) is improperly called LrpuLiN; a name which appears more appropriate to the pure bitter principle than I to the LUPULINIC GEAINS. LU'PUS. In pathology, a disease affecting the skin, remarkable for eating away the parts which it attacks with extreme rapidity. It is generally confined to the face, and com- . mences with small, spreading ulcerations, which become more or less concealed beneath bran-like scabs, and end in ragged ulcers, w'hich gradually destroy the skin and muscular tissue to a considerable depth. Sometimes it assumes a form resembling that of ring-worm ; in others, to the inexperienced eye, it simulates cancer. In its most malignant shape (noli ME tangeee) it frequently attacks the carti- j lages of the nose, when the whole of that organ is often destroyed by its ravages. Lupus is a disease of a most obstinate character and most difficult to cure, and, in many cases, appears to be even aggravated by medication. The only treatment besides that of a constitu- 1 tional character consists in the use of escha- rotic lotions, or in the separation of the diseased from the sound parts by caustic applications or the knife. Among internal remedies the solutions of arsenic, chloride of barium, and hydriodate of arsenic and mer- cury (Donovan’s solution), appear to be the most beneficial. LUS'TRE. See Plumbago. LUTE. Syn. Luting; Lutum, Casmen- TUM, L. A composition employed to secure the joints of chemical vessels, or as a covering to protect them from the violence of the fire. Prep. 1. Linseed meal, either alone, or mixed with an equal weight of whiting, and made into a stiff paste with water. It soon becomes very hard and tough. 2. Ground almond caJce, from which the oil has been pressed, mixed up as the last. Both the. above are much used for stills, retorts, and other vessels that are not exposed to a heat higher than about 320° Fahr. They are capable of resisting the action of the fumes of volatile oils, spirits, w’eak acids, &c., for some time. 3. Fresh-slaked lime made into a paste with strainedblood or size. As the last. 4. Plaster of Paris made into a paste with water, and at once applied. It bears a nearly red heat, but becomes rather porous and friable. 5. Powdered clay or whiting made into putty w’ith water and boiled linseed oil. This is com- monly known as ‘eat lute.’ 6. A mixture of powdered clay and ground bricks, made up with water or a solution of borax. For joining crucibles, &c., which are to be exposed to a strong heat. 7. Pipe-clay and horse-dung, made into a paste with water. As a coating for glass ves- sels, to preserve them from injury from ex- posure to the fire. This composition is used by the pipe-makers, and will stand unharmed the extremest heat of their kiln for 24 hours. It is applied by spreading it on paper. 8. As the last, but employing shredded tow or plumbago for horse-dung. Obs. For the joints of small vessels, as tubes, &c., especially those of glass or earthenware, pieces of vulcanized Indian tubing, slipped over and tied above and below the joint, are very convenient substitutes for lutes, ancl have the advantage of lasting for a long time, and bearing uninjured the heat at which oil of vitriol boils. Flat rings or “ washers’’ of vul- canized rubber are also excellent for still heads, &c., whenever the parts can be ‘‘ pinched to- gether” by screws or clamps. LYCOPO'DIUM. The fine powder known in commerce under this name consists of the minute ^ spores’ of the common club moss, or Lycopodium clavatum. It is exceedingly com- bustible ; thrown suddenly from a powder-puff or bellows across the flame of a candle, it pro- duces the imitation flashes of lightning of our theatres. The powder is also employed as a ‘dusting powder’ in excoriations, and to roll up boluses and pills. MACARO'NI. This only differs from vee- MiCELLi in the size of the pipes, which are about as large as a goose-quill. When pro- perly dressed, it is very] wholesome and nutri- tious. A pleasant dish may be made by boiling macaroni in water until soft, either with or without a little salt, draining off the water, and then stewing it with a little butter, cream, or milk, and grated cheese, adding spice to palate. It may be made into a ‘ form’ and browned before the fire. MAC'ARGONS (English). Prep. Take of sweet almonds, 1 lb.; blanch and beat them to a paste, add of lump sugar, li lb.; whites of 6 eggs ; the grated yellow peel of 2 lemons ; mix well, make it into ‘ forms,’ cover with wafer paper, and bake in a moderate oven. MACE. Syn. Macis, L. The tough mem- branous, lacerated, covering (arillode) of the NUTMEG. It has a flavour and odour more agreeable than that of nutmeg, which in its general properties it resembles. It is used as a flavouring by cooks, confectioners, and liquor- istes; and in medicine as a carminative. See Oil, &c.