so ACID—ACIDIMETER. ride at once to react on it; as mentioned under Acetic Acid. Another and a better process, also discovered by M. Gerhardt, and of general applicability for the isolation of the anhydrous acids, is to cause chloride of henzoyle to act upon the an- hydrous soda-salt of the organic acid, by gently heating them together; a double an- hydrous ACID is first formed, which may generally be separated, by heat, into its com- ponent acids; the more volatile passing over into the receiver, whilst the least volatile, along with the chloride of the base, remains in the retort. It is the opinion of Gerhardt, and many other chemists, that the above compounds are not identical with the acids usually assumed to exist in the salts, although their ultimate composition may be the same; but that they are in reality a species of saline compounds, in which the hydrogen of hydrated acids is re- placed by an equivalent of an organic radical. Thus, in the case of anhydrous acetic and ben- zoic acid, the one is presumed to be a benzoate of benzoyle, the other an acetate of acetetyle. The hydrated or ordinary oryanic acids ex- hibit little disposition to combine with each other. In the anhydrous state the reverse is the case. Thus, chloride of acetyle (othyle) and benzoate of soda yield aceto-benzoic ACID; and chloride of benzoyl and cinnamate of soda, BENZO-ciNNAMic ACID. Several other double organic acids may be obtained in the same way. Nearly all the anhydrous organic acids when treated with the alkalies or hot water, are re- duced to the hydrated form, and several cannot even be volatilised without suffering decomposition. The unity of the double acids is also destroyed by the same means. See “ Report of Pelouze, Eegnault, and Dumas, to the Acad, of Sciences,” Mar. 21, 1853; the “ Chem. Soc. Quar. Journ.,” v, 127 ; and the articles Acetic Acid, Aceto-benzoic Acid, Acids (Anhydrous), &c., in this work. Ox'ygen-Acids, Oxac'ids, Ox'yacids. Acids assumed to result from the combination of a simple substance or radical with oxygen; as, sulphur, forming sulphuric acid. They exhibit acid properties only when hydrated. In their action on metallic oxides and bases, the oxide or base takes the place of the water of hydra- tion. See Acids. Ox'ygenised Acids. Acids which appear to contain a surcharge of oxygen; first described by M. Thenard, in 1818. Prep. Perfectly pure and fresh-prepared dentoxide of barium is moistened with water, and, after it has fallen to powder, is mixed with seven or eight times its weight of water ; the given acid, in a dilute state, is then poured in, until the liquid becomes neutral and neither acts on htraus nor turmeric paper, the solution during the whole time being promoted by constant agitation. The liquor, after being filtered, or decanted, consists of pure water. holding in solution the oxygenised acid, or rather deutoxide of hydrogen combined with the acid operated on. Obs. For the success of this process it is ab- solutely necessary that the deutoxide of barium be free from manganese and iron. The pre- sence of a little silica and alumina, which usually occurs in the deutoxide prepared by decomposing the nitrate, is not material. Pyr'o-acids, Pyrac'ids (-ras'-). Products ob- tained by the action of heat on the organic acids which do not sublime unchanged; as pyrocitric acid, pyrogallic acid, &c. See Vegetable Acids {below). Sul'phur Acids, Sulphac'ids. Sulphurets which exhibit acid qualities, and form salt- like compounds with other sulphurets; as bisulphide of carbon, sulphuretted hydrogen, pentasulphuret of antimony, &c. They are usually the higher sulphurets of non-metallic substances, or of metals which have little tendency to form basic oxides. They more frequently result from the union of metallic, than non-metallic elements, with sulphur. With the lower sulphurets, particularly of the alkaline metals, they unite to form sulphur- salts. Veg'etahle Acids, Veg'etacids. Acids pecu- liar to, or found chiefly in, the vegetable king- dom. By modern chemists, they are classed under the general head of organic acids, “ though the distinction must always be main- tained between acids of animal and vegetable origin.^’ (Ure.) They form a numerous and important class of bodies. Many of them are polybasic; and it is remarkable, that in the new products (pyroacids) formed from them by the action of heat, this character is gener- ally lost. ACIDIFICA'TION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Acidi- fica'tio, L. In chemistry, the act, process, or state of acidifying, or of making, becoming, or impregnating with acid. See Acetifica- TioN, Wines, &c. ACIDIFIER. Syn. Acidificateur, Fr. In chemistry, a substance or principle capable of producing acidity by combination with other bodies. The ‘ elementary principles ’ to which this term has been applied, are—bro- mine, chlorine, fluorine, iodine, oxygen, selenium, sulphur, and tellurium. Cyanogen, and one or two other substances, have been named as examples of ‘ compoundswhich belong to this class. No acid is known that does not contain one or other of these principles; but their title to the term ‘acidifiers,* is doubtful. ACIDIM'ETER. Syn. Acidom'eter; Aci- DIME'TRUM, &C., L. ; ACIDIMETRE, Fr. An instrument or apparatus employed in acidi- metry. The ordinary acidimeters of the chemist are small tubes, constructed to hold exactly 1000 grains of distilled water, at 60° Fahr., within the limits of their scale, which is accurately graduated into 100 divisions. They are used to contain the alkaline solu-