AMMONIA. 352 however, render it unfit for use as a reagent; hut it must be borne in mind that it will now deposit sulphur when mixed with acids.” (Liebig.) It is in this state that it proves so valuable as a reagent to detect ‘ hydrocyanic acid,’ and as a solvent to separate ‘metallic sulphurets ’ thrown down by sulphuretted hydrogen. Uses, S^‘c. It is principally employed by chemists, as a reagent to precipitate metals (like the neutral hydrosulphate), to separate metallic sulphurets, &c. (see above) j and by the perfumers, as a ‘ mordant ’ in dyeing hair. In medicine, it has been used by Cruickshank, Rollo, and others, to check the morbid appetite, and to increase the action of the stomach and general tone of the system in diabetes mellitus. It has also been used by Brauw, Gruithuisen, and others, in old pulmonary and vesical ca- tarrhs. It is a powerful sedative, lessening the action of the circulatory system, causing nau- sea, vomiting, vertigo, drowsiness, &c.—Dose, 3 to 6 drops, 3 or 4 times daily, mixed with pure water, and instantly swallowed. In large doses it is poisonous. Ant. Very dilute solution of chlorine, or of chloride of lime or soda, followed by a power- ful emetic, or the stomach pump. When the yas has been respired, free exposure to fresh air, with the head a little elevated, and copious affusions of cold water, with moderate draughts of brandy-and-water, and the use of the smelling-bottle (ammoniacal) should be adopted. If need be, artificial respiration should be at- tempted, and the air around the patient should be slightly impregnated with the fumes of chlo- rine or chloride of lime. 3. Perhydrosul'phate of Ammonia. Syn. Peesul'phtjeet oe ammonia {Brande), Sijl- pho-hydeosijl'phate op a. {Gay-Lussac), Peesul'phide op ammo”nium, &c. ; Boyle’s Fuming liquoe*, Beguin’s Oil op suLPHUEf or Sul'phueetted spieit f; Hoppman’s Vol'- ATILE SPIEIT OP SULPHUEf, V. LIV'eE OP S.f, &c.; Ammo"nle peehydeosul'phas, a. peehydeosulphuee'tum, Li'quoe pu'mans BoYL'II*, HePAE SUL'PHUEIS YOLAT'lLEf, &C., L. Authorities differ as to the constitution of this liquid, which, since its introduction by Beguin in 1650, has passed under more ‘ aliases ’ than perhaps any other preparation. Its precise position amongst the ammonia-com- pounds is still undecided. Prep. 1. (Beguin.) Sulphur, 1 lb; quick- lime, Ij lb ; sal ammoniac, 4 oz.; mix and distil. 2. (Boyle.) Sulphur and sal ammoniac, of each, 5 oz.; quicklime, 6 oz.; as last. 3. (Liebig.) Agitate the common hydro- sulphuret of ammonia with pure sulphur, until the latter ceases to be dissolved; and, after repose, decant the clear liquid. Prop., 8fc. An orange-yellow', fuming, foetid liquid, of an oily consistence, having the cha- racteristics of the common hydrosulphuret in a remarkable degree. “ It may prove an ex- cellent medicine.” (Boyle.) “Useful for wounds and ulcers.” (Beguin.) Diluted w'ith three parts of spirit of wine it formed the ■ LiQUOE antipodag'eicus of F. Hoffuian; of w'hich we are told, that about 30 drops acted as a strong sudorific; and ai)plied externally, mixed with camphor, “ it relieved pain like a charm.” (Hoff’man.) The use of the hydro- sulphurets of ammonia in medicine has, of late i years, been most undeservedly neglected. They are now scarcely ever employed as remedies. Lac'tate of Ammonia. Syn. Ammo”nijs lac'- TAS, L. An uncrystallisable salt prepared by saturating ammonia, or its carbonate, with lactic acid. It has been found useful in rickets, and in dyspepsia and ivorms, when occurring in debilitated habits. For this purpose it is best taken fresh-prepared, as a draught, flavoured with syrup of orange-peel, 3 or 4 times daily. See Lactate and Lactic Acid. Liq'uor of Ammonia. -Syn. Ammo"nia-watee, Solu'tion op ammonia, Watee op a., Cau'- STic A.*, Spieit op SAL-AMMo”NiAct, Cau'stic S. OP S.-A.f, &C. ; Li'QUOE AMMO”NI.aE (Ph. L. & D.), A'qua a. (Ph. E.), A. A. PU”EiE*, A. a. CAU'STIC^*, Solu'tio A., Ammonia cau'- STiCA* (Ph. D. 1826), SpieTtus sa'lis ammo- Nl'AClf, S. S. A. CAU'STICUSf, &C., L.; AMMO- NIAQUE LIQUIDE, DISSOLUTION D’AMMONIAQUE EspEIT DE sal ammoniac, Fr.; AtZENDEE I ammonium-liquoe, Salmiak-geist, Ger.; j. Liquoee di ammoniaco, Ital. In the present i London Pharmacopoeia this ai’ticle is included ; in the ‘Materia Medica;’ the other British Colleges give formula) for its preparation. Prep. 1. Phaemacopcetal poemule, .! STEENGTHS, &C. :— ^ a. Ph. L. 1851:—«. (Liquoe ammonie, ' Ph. L.) Sp. gr. *960. “Nearly 10 gr. of ammo- nia are contained in 100 gr. of the solution. (3. (Steongee liquoe op ammonia, L. a. poe'tioe, Ph. L.)-Sp. gr. -882. The addition of 2 parts of distilled water to 1 of the solu- tion, reduces it to the strength of the ‘ officinal standard ’ (-960). “ It contains nearly 30 gr. of ammonia in each 100 gr.” b. Ph. L. 1836. (L. ammonite) :—Hydro- chlorate of ammonia, 10 oz.; lime, 8 oz.; water, 2 pints; put the lime, slaked with water, into a retort, then add the hydrochlorate, broken i into small pieces, and the rest of the w^ater; and distil 15 fl. oz. e. Ph. E. 1841:—Muriate of ammonia (in fine powder), and quicklime, of each, 13 oz.; dis- tilled water, 12 fl.oz.; water (to slake the lime), 71 fl.oz.; tlie lime, having been allowed to cool in a covered vessel, is to be well, but ) quickly, mixed wdth the ‘ muriate’, and at once placed in a glass retort, to which a ‘ receiver’ attached; the latter being also connected with j i a bottle containing 4 fl.oz. of the ‘distilled w'ater ’; and this last, with another bottle loosely : corked, containing the remaining 8 fl.oz. of ‘ distilled water.’ The receiver and the first > bottle is each to be provided w’ith a safety-tube ; the ‘ communicating tubes ’ are to descend to the bottom of tlie bottles at the further end