1373 APPENDIX. DUM MAGNETICUM; FERRI OxiDUM XIGRTJM, Ph. E.). The process given for this is essen- tially the same as that of Ph. D. (see Proto- SESQUIOXIDE OE Iron, 2, h, page 795). Solu- tion of soda is substituted for solution of potash as the precipitant, and the oxide is finally dried, without heat, over sulphuric acid. 2. Peroxide of Iron (Ferri Peroxidum). Prepared by heating the hydrated peroxide in a stove until it becomes dry to the touch, and then exposing it to the temperature of 212° until it ceases to lose weight. See Sesqtji- oxiDE OF Iron {page 796). 3. Hydrated Peroxide of Iron (Ferri Peroxidum dydratum). Prepared by adding, gradually, solution of soda, 33 fl. oz. (or q. s.), to solution of persulphate of iron, 4 fl. oz., pre- viously diluted with distilled water, 1 pint; collecting the precipitate on a calico filter, and washing it until the filtrate ceases to give a precipitate with chloride of barium. It is to be placed, while still moist, in a porcelain pot, whose lid is made tight by a luting of lard. It should be recently made. (See 796.) Phosphate of Iron (Ferri Phosphas). Described in Mat. Med. as “ Phosphate of Iron, 3FeO, PO5, partially oxidated;” there- fore, if this description is correct, it differs from the ordinary phosphate (1, page 797) in containing an additional equiv. of protoxide of iron. It is prepared by dissolving sulphate of iron, 3 oz., in boiling distilled water, 2 pints, and mixing the solution with another formed by dissolving phosphate of soda, 2^ oz., and acetate of soda, 1 oz., in the same quantity of boiling distilled water. The precipitate is washed with hot distilled water as long as the washings are affected by chloride of barium, and finally dried on porous bricks in a stove, at a temperature not exceeding 100°. A new preparation. Dose. 5 to 10 gr. Reduced Iron (Ferrum redactum ; Ferri PULVis, Ph. D.). Prepared by the process of Ph. D., but substituting fragments of chloride of calcium for the caustic potash. See Que- yenne’s Iron {Prep. 1, page 798). Saccharated Carbonate of Iron (Ferri Carbonas saccharata). Carbonate of soda and sulphate of iron, of each, 2 oz., are sepa- rately dissolved in distilled water, ^ gallon to each salt; the solutions are then mixed, with brisk stirring, in a deep cylindrical vessel, which is then covered as accurately as possible, and set aside for 24 hours. The supernatant solution is siphoned off, and the precipitate stirred up with fresh distilled water, 1 gall. After subsidence, the clear solution is again removed from the carbonate, which is then collected on a calico filter, pressed, and rubbed up with refined sugar, 1 oz., in a porcelain mortar. This mixture must be dried at a tem- perature not exceeding 212°. (See page 792.) Sulphate of Iron. 1. (Ferri Sulphas.) Prepared by dissolving iron wire, 4 oz., in sulphuric acid, 4 fl. oz., diluted with distilled water, pint, boiling for 10 minutes, filtering through paper, and separating the crystals deposited after 24 hours. (See page 799.) 2. (Dried; Ferri Sulphas exsiccata.) As in Ph. D. (See Prep. 4>,page 799.) 3. (Granulated; Ferri Sulphas granu- LATA.) As in Ph. D. (See Prep. ^,page 799.) SuLPHURET OF Iron. Named in Appendix i as an article employed in analysis. Tartarated Iron (Ferrum tartaratum ; Ferri Potassio-tartras, Ph. L.). Prepare the hydrated peroxide from solution of p>er- sulphate of iron, 4 fl. oz., diluted with distilled water, 1 pint, and solution of soda, 2 pints (or q. s.), as in the first stage of the process for CITRATE OF IRON AND AMMONIA {above). Add the washed oxide to acid tartrate of potash, 2 oz., dissolved in distilled water, 30 fl. oz., and digest, with repeated stirring, for 6 hours, at a heat which must be carefully prevented from rising above 140°. When cool, decant the clear solution from any undissolved pre- cipitate, evaporate to syrupy consistence, spread on plates, and dry (scale) at a tem- perature not exceeding 140°. See Potassio- TARTRATE OF Iron {page 797). Isinglass. Named in Appendix as an article employed in analysis. (See page 801.) Jalap—Jalapa. ^‘The tubers” of Exogo- nium purga, “ dried; imported from Mexico.” (See page 803—also Kesin of Jalap, below.) Juices. The following are new prepara- tions :— Juice of Broom (Succus Scoparii). From fresh broom tops, 7 lb.; rectified spirit, a suffi- ciency. Bruise the tops in a stone mortar, press out the juice, and to every 3 measures of juice add 1 measure of the spirit. Set aside for 7 days, and filter. Keep in a cool place. Dose. ^ to 1 fl. dr. Juice of Hemlock (Succus Conii). From fresh hemlock leaves, as above. Dose. ^ to 1 fl. dr. Juice of Taraxacum (Succus Taraxaci). From dandelion root, as above. Dose. 2to4 fl. dr. Kamela—Kamela. A new anthelmintic, consisting of the powder which adheres to the capsules of Rottlera tinctoria. It is imported from India. Dose. 1 to 3 drachms, suspended in gruel or mucilage. Kino—Kino. See page 811. Kousso—Cusso. See page 812. Lard (Prepared) — Adeps pr.eparatus j Axungia (Ph. E.). See page 822. Lead. The officinal compounds containing this metal are— Acetate of Lead (Plumbi Acetas). By dissolving, with a gentle heat, litharge, 24 oz., in acetic acid, 2 pints (or q. s.), diluted with distilled water, 1 pint; then filtering, evapo- rating, and crystallizing. Should the filtrate not have a distinctly acid reaction, a little acetic acid must be added. The crystals must be dried on filtering paper, without heat