ANTIBILIOUS—ANTIFEEMENT. 179 I I sifted, so as to be perfectly free from grit^ is I gradually added, through a sieve, to 5 times its I weight of good lard contained in an iron-pan j and rendered semi-fluid, hut not ‘ liquid,^ by a I gentle heat; the mass being vigorously stirred I with a strong wooden spatula, after each ad- I dition, until the mixture is complete, and the I composition smooth and uniform. The heat I is then gradually raised until the whole ' liquefies, when the vessel is removed from the fire to a cool situation, and the stirring, which I should have been unremitted, continued until I the mixture is quite cold. It is applied, in the , cold state, with a brush, about once a day, according to the velocity of the parts; and I is said to be fully 3-4ths cheaper in use j than oil, tallow, tar, or any of the ordinary I compo’s. When intemled for uses in which it will be exposed to warmth, and consequent \ waste by ‘ dripping,’ a part, or even the whole j of the lard is replaced by hard strained grease I or tallow, or a little bees’ wax is added during I its manufacture. j 2. Black lead, 1 part; tallow or grease, 4 I parts; ground together until perfectly smooth, I either with or without camphor, 3 to 5 lb. per I cwt. Expired patent. ! 3. Scotch soda, 60 lb.; water, 30 gal. / dis- I solve in a capacious boiler, add palm oil and j hard tallow, of each li cwt., and having with- [ drawn the heat, stir vigorously as before, I until the mass is homogeneous and nearly solidified. In hot weather the proportion of tallow is increased, and that of the palm oil [ diminished; in winter, the reverse. Used for I the axles of railway carriages and other coarse purposes. For ‘ express trains ’ all I tallow is usually employed, irrespective of the weather or season. ! 4. Bean or rye flour, 1 cwt. ; water, 6 cwt. ; i mix to a smooth paste, raise the heat until the i mixture boils, and stir in first of milk of lime (of about the consistence of cream), 7 cwt.; rosin-oil, 10 cwt.; and stir vigorously until I cold. Inferior. ' 5. (Booth’s.)—a. From Scotch soda, \ lb.; I boiling ivater, 1 gall. ; palm oil or tallow, or I any mixture of them, 10 lb. ; as before, ob- ! serving to continue the stirring until the i mixture has cooled down to 60° or 70° Fahr. ! b. Soda, ^ lb.; water and rape-oil, of each, ; 1 gall. ; tallow or palm-oil, J lb. ; as last. Ex- ! pired patent. 6. (Mankettrick’s.) From caoutchouc (dis- I solved in ‘ oil of turpentine ’), 4 lb. ; Scotch I soda, 10 lb. ; glue, 1 lb. ; (dissolved in) water, 10 gall.; oil, 10 gall.; thoroughly incorpo- I rated by assiduous stirring, adding the caout- ! chouc last. j 7. (Liaed, Fr.) Finest rape-oil, 1 gall.; ' caoutchouc {cut small), 3 oz.; dissolve with heat, j Uses, S^‘c. To lessen friction in machinery, 1 prevent the ‘ bearings ’ rusting, &c. The I simplest are perhaps the best. No. 1 & 3 are i those most generally employed. Of late j years several different liquid hydrocarbons i I 1 obtained from coal, and particularly paraflin oil, have been extensively employed in this way. See Friction, Lubrication, &c. ANTIBIL'IOUS (-yus). Syn. Antibilio'sus, L.; Antibilieux, Fr. An epithet of medicines j that are supposed to remove ailments depend- ing on disordered action of the liver. Aperients, mercurials, and aloeiic purgatives generally, belong to this class. See Abernethy Me- dicines, Bile, Pills, &c. ANTICAR'DIUM. See Reviver (Black). AN'TICHLORE (-klore). Among bleachers, any substance, agent, or means, by which the pernicious after-effects of chlorine are pre- vented. Washing wdth a weak solution of sulphite of soda (which converts any adhering ‘ bleaching salt ’ into sulphate, hydrosulphate, or chloride), is commonly adopted for this purpose. Recently chloride of tin, used in the same way, has been recommended. A cheap sulphite of lime, prepared by agitating ' milk of lime ’ with the ‘ fumes of burning sulphur,’ and draining and air-drying the product, has been lately ‘patented’ in England and America, by Prof. Horsford, under the name of ‘ anti- chloride OF LIME.’ See Bleaching, &c. AN'TIDOTE (-d5te). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. An- tid'otum, Antid'otus, L. ; Antidot, Ge- GENGIFT, Ger. In medicine, toxicology, S^c., a substance administered to counteract, remove, or lessen, the effects of poison, or to prevent disease. It is commonly restricted to those medicines which are employed in cases of poi- soning and the more malignant or contagious diseases. Corresponding adjectives are an'ti- dbtaU (Eng., Fr.; antid'otus, \i.),an’tiddtary*, antidbt'ical*. The principal poisons, wdth their antidotes, are noticed under their respective heads. Also see Poisons, Toxicology, &c. ANTIFER'MENT (pop. and more us., in this sense, an'tiferment'). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. An- tifermen'tum, L. Any substance which pre- vents or arrests fermentation. Several nos- trums are sold under this name in the cider- districts. The following are tried and useful formulae:— Prep. 1. Sulphile (not sulpha/e) of lime, in fine powder, 1 part; marble-dust, ground oyster-shells, or chalk, 7 parts; mix, and pack tight, so as to exclude the air. 2. Sulphite (not sulphate) of potassa, 1 part; new black-mustard seed (ground in a pepper- mill), 7 parts; mix, and pack so as to per- fectly exclude air and moisture.—Dose (of either), ^ oz. to 1-^- oz. per hhd. 3. Mustard-seed, 14 lb. ; cloves and capsicum, of each, 1-^ lb. ; mix, and grind them to pow'der in a pepper-mill.—Dose. -4- to ^ lb. per hhd. Uses, ^’c. The above formulae are infinitely superior to those commonly met w’ith in trade; and are quite harmless. A portion of any one of them added to cider, or perry, soon allays fer-* 1 Dr. Mayne in liis “ E.vpos. Lex.," p. 66, marks this word anlid’otal, a pronunciation or notation which is never pjel with in English, noiwiiJistaiuling the Latin antid'dius has the antepemiltima accented.