POTASSA. IIIG of iron, found in various parts of Europe and America. For medicinal purposes, the com- mercial chromate is purified b}'- solution in hot water, filtration, and recrystallization. Prep. 1. The ore, previously assayed to determin its richness, and freed as much as possible Irom its gangue, is ground to powder in a mill, and mixed with a quantity of coarsely powdered nitre rather less than that of the oxide of chromium which it contains; this mixture is exposed, for several hours, to a powerful heat on the hearth of a reverberatory furnace, during which time it is frequently stirred up with iron rods; the calcined mass is next raked out and lixiviated with hot water, and the resulting yellow-coloured solution eva- porated briskly over a naked fire, or by the heat of high-pressure steam ; chromate of pot- assa falls, under the form of a granular yellow salt, which is removed from time to time with a ladle, and thrown into a wooden vessel, furnished with a bottom full of holes {draining box), where it is left to drain and dry. In this state it forms the chromate of potassa of com- merce. By a second solution and recrystal- lization, it may be obtained in large and regu- lar crystals. The next process has for its object the employment of a cheaper salt of potassa than the nitrate. 2. (Swindell & Co., Patent dated Nov., 1850.) A mixture of pulverized chrome ore and chlo- ride of potassium is exposed to a full red heat, on the hearth of a reverberatory furnace, with occasional stirring for some time, when steam at a very elevated temperature is made to act on it, until the conversion is complete, known by assaying a portion of the mass; the chro- mate of potassa is then dissolved out of the residuum, as before. Common salt or hydrate of lime may be substituted for chloride of potassium, when the chromates of soda or lime are respectively produced. 3. (Chas. Watt, jun.) By the calcination, in the usual manner, of a mixture of chrome ore, sulphate of potassa, and freshly slaked lime, until a portion of the mass, digested in an excess of dilute nitric acid, yields a solution I which only gives a “ slight milkiness,” and not a plentiful heavy white precipitate, on the addition of solution of chloride of barium; the calcined mass is then treated as before. A cheap, simple, and excellent process. 4. On the small scale, this salt may be pre- pared from the bichromate of potassa by neu- tralizing it with hydrate of potassa. Prop. Yellow • tastes cool, bitter, and dis- agreeable ; soluble in 2 parts of water at 60° Fahr.; the crystals are efflorescent. Pur. The salt of commerce is frequently contaminated with large quantities of sulphate of potassa and chloride of potassium. To detect these, M. Zuber adds tartaric acid, dissolved in 50 parts of water, to a like solu- tion of the sample. As soon as the decompo- sition is complete, and the colour verges to- wards the green, the supernatant liquor should afford no precipitate with solutions of the, nitrates of silver and baryta, whence the ab- sence of chlorides and sulphates may be respec- tively inferred. The properties are, 8 parts of tartaric acid to 1 part of the chrornale. If saltpetre is the adulterating ingredient, the sample deflagrates when thrown upon burning coals. Assay. 1. A solution of 50 gr. of the salt is treated with a solution of nitrate of baryta, the precipitate, digested in nitric acid, and the insoluble portion (sulphate of baryta) washed, dried, and weighed. 117 gr. of "this substance are equivalent to 88 gr. of sulphate OP POTASH. 2. The nitric solution, with the washings (sec above), is treated with a solution of nitrate oj silver, and the precipitate of chloride of silver carefully collected, washed, dried, ignited, ami weighed. 144 gr. of chloride of silver repre- sent 76 gr. of CHLOEIDE OP POTASSIUM. 3. The nitric solution, with the washing (see above), after having any remaining baryta thrown down by adding dilute sulphuric acid, in slight excess, is treated with liquor of am- monia, and the resulting precipitate of oxide of chromium, collected on a filter, washed, dried, carefully ignited in a silver, platimun. or porcelain crucible, and weighed. 40 gr. ol this oxide represent 100 gr. of pure cheo- MATE OP POTASSA. Any deficiency consists of impurities or adulterants. Uses. Chromate of potash is used in dyeing, bleaching, the manufacture of chromic acid, bichromate of potash, &c. It is the common source of nearly all the other com.pounds of chromium. It is reputed alterative in doses of jL to 5 gr.; and is emetic in doses of 1 to, 4 gr. A solution in 8 parts of water is occa- ' sionally used to destroy fungus; one in 30 to ’ 40 parts of water is also used as an antiseptic and desiccant. Concluding remarks. The first process is un- doubtedly the best, when expense is not an object. To reduce this, a mixture of ^potash or ‘pearlash,’ with about ^ of its weight of' nitre, or l-5th part of its weight of peroxidi of manganese, may be substituted withoul much inconvenience. The assay of the CiiROMi OEE, alluded to above, may be made by reduc ing 100 gr. of it to powder, mixing it witl twice its weight of powdered nitre, and a little hydrate of lime, and subjecting the mixture t( a strong red heat for 3 or 4 hours; the cal cined mass may then be exhausted with hoilhxi water, and the resulting solution, after preci pitation with dilute sulphuric acid, in sligh"i excess, and filtration, may be treated with rec tified spirit, when its oxide of chromium ma\ be thrown down by the addition of liquor q, ammonia. (See above.) In the conversion o chrome ore into chromate of potassa, car. should, in all cases, be taken that the proper tion of nitre or alkali should be slightly les than what is absolutely required to saturate the ore, as the production of a neutral salt