587 ■ ESSENCE. cassia, coriander, and caraway seeds, of each 1 dr. (all bruised or ground); rectified spirit 1 pint; digest, with agitation, as before, for 14 days, press, and filter. Used as a flavour- ing. When made with proof spirit or brandy, I and only ^ the above weight of spice, it is called ‘ TINCTURE of SAVORY SPICES.’ 1 Essence of Sen'na. See Liquor and Infu- sion (Concentrated). I Essence of Smoke. See Westphalian Es- I SENCE. j Essence of Soap. Syn. Spirit of soap, ! Shaving fluid j Esprit de savon. Essence DE SAVON, Essence royale pour faire la I BARBE, Fr.; Essentia saponis, Tinctura ! saponis concentrata, L. Prep. 1. Castile i soap (in shavings), 4 oz.; proof spirit, 1 pint; dissolve, and add a little perfume. 2. Venetian soap, f lb.; salt of tartar, 1 oz.; I benzoin, ^ oz.; spirit of wine, 1 gallon. 1 3. Best soft soap, \ lb.; boiling water, 1 pint; I dissolve, cool, and add, oils of cinnamon (cassia), verbena, and neroli, of each, 6 drops; dissolved . in rectified spirit, 1 pint; mix well, and if not i perfectly transparent, add a little more strong 1 spirit, or filter through blotting paper. Obs. This alcoholic solution of soap is chiefly used for shaving, and is very convenient in j travelling, as a good lather may be instantly I produced without the trouble of employing a , soap-box. Instead of the above perfumes, 15 ; drops of essence of musk or ambergris, or 30 I drops of any of the perfumed spirits, or 3 drops I of attar of roses, or 6 drops of any of the aro- ^ matic essential oils, may be added, when a cor- ; responding name is given to the preparation, as esprit de savon, de la rose, &c. 4. (P. Cod.) White soap, ^ oz.', carbonate of i potassa, 1 dr.; proof spirit, 12 oz.; dissolve. I Used medicinally. They are all used as fric- tions, &c. 1 5. (Camphorated,—Guibourt.) White soap, 1 3 parts; camphor, 1 part; spirit of rosemary, I 16 parts; dissolve. A variety of opodeldoc. Used as an embrocation in rheumatic pains, sore throat, &c. i Essence of Soup Herbs. Syn. Spirit of soup HERBS, CoNC. tincture OF s. H., &c. Prep. (Kitchener’s.) Lemon thyme, winter savory, sweet marjoram, and sweet basil, of each, 1 oz.; lemon peel (grated), and eschalots, of each, I oz.; bruised celery seed, \ oz.; proof spirit or j brandy, 1 pint; digest for 10 days or a fort- night. A superior flavouring essence for soups, I gravies, &c. See Essence of Savoury : Spices. i Essence of Spear'mint. See Essence of : Mint. ' Essence of Sprats. Syn. Essence of Pritisu anchovies. From pickled sprats I (British anchovies), as Essence of Ancho- ! VIES, for which it is commonly sold, i Essence of Spruce. Syn. Fluid extract of SPRUCE; ESSENTIA ABIETIS, EXTRACTUM A. fluidum, L. Prep. A decoction of the 1 young tops of the black spruce-fir {Abies nigra), evaporated to the consistence of a thick syrup. Used to make spruce beer, &c. Toothache Essence. Syn. Essentia odon- TALGICA, L. Prep. 1. Acetate of morphia, i dr.; tincture of pellitory of Spain (made with rectified spirit), 2 fl. oz.; acetic acid (gla- cial), 4 fl. dr.; dissolve, and add of oil of cloves, 6 fl. dr. 2. (Redwood.) Pellitory, i lb.; extract of belladonna, 2 dr.; rectified spirit, 1 pint; digest 14 days, strain, and add, of hyponitrous ether, 1 oz.; oil of wine, ^ oz.; oil of cloves, 2 dr. See Drops (Odontalgic). Essence of Tu"berose. Prep. The flowers are stratified with sheep's or cotton wool, im- pregnated with the purest oil of ben or of olives, in an earthen vessel, closely covered, and kept for 12 hours in a water bath; the flowers are then removed, and/resA ones substituted, and this is repeated until the oil (huile au tube- rose) is sufficiently scented. 'The wool or cotton is then mixed with the purest spirit of wine, and distilled in a water bath; or it is first digested in a warm situation, and in a well-closed vessel, for several days, during the whole of which time frequent agitation is had recourse to. A similar plan is followed for the preparation of the essences of jasmine, violets, and other like flowers. See Spirit. Essence of Tur'tle. Syn. Essence of green turtle. Prep. From essence of anchovies and shallot wine, of each, 3 oz.; basil wine, ^ pint; mushroom ketchup, ^ pint; the juice of 2 lemons ; the yellow peel of 1 lemon ; curry powder, \ oz.; digest for a week. Used to impart the flavour of turtle to soups and gravies. Essence of Tyre. See Hair Dye. Essence of Vanil'la. Syn. Essentia vanillje, Tinctura v. concentrata, L. Prep. 1. Va~ nilla (cut small), 2 oz. ; rectified spirit, 1 pint; digest a fortnight. 2. (Wholesale.) Vanilla, 2 lb.; rectified spirit, 1 gall.; proceed as for Essence of Musk. Very superior. 3. Vanilla (best), \ lb. ; spirit of ambrette, 1 quart; cloves, 30 gr.; grain musk, 7 gr.; as last. Much esteemed. It is chiefly used as a perfume and for flavouring. Essence of Verbe'na. Syn. Essence of LEMON-GRASS, E. OF CITRONELLE ; EsSENTIA VERBEN.E, L. Prep. 1. From oil of lemon grass or verbenas {Andropogon citraium), as ESSENCE OF ALLSPICE. 2. To the last add, of essences of ambergris and bergamoite (oil), of each, 1 fl. dr.; neroli, i fl. dr. 3. To No. 1 add, of oils of lavender and ber- gamotte, of each, ^ dr.; essence of vanilla, 2 fl. dr. A powerful and refreshing perfume. Essence of Vi'olet. Syn. Essentia violje, L.; Essences des violettes, Fr. See Es- sence OF 'Tuberose and Spirit. Essence of Vittie Vayr. Syn. Essence of VETIVER ; ESSENCE DE VITTIE VAYR DOUBLE, Fr. Prep. 1. Vittie vayr or cuscus (the root of