340 BOILERS—BOLUS. In surgery, a well-known inflammatory tu-| mour, of a superflcial and more or less tem- porary character, which generally terminates by s\\ppuration. Boils (furun'culi) generally attack the healthy and robust during the period of youth and early manhood, and seldom trouble per- sons who have arrived at the middle age of life. Treat., S^c. When boils begin to appear, and exhibit persistency by daily enlargement and increasing pain, suppuration should be pro- moted by warm poultices of bread and linseed- meal, to which a little fat or oil may be added, to prevent their getting hard. If poultices are inconvenient, warm and stimulating embro- cations, or exposure to the vapour of hot water, or the application of stimulating plasters, may he adopted instead. When the tumour is sufficiently ‘ ripe,’ the matter should be eva- cuated by gentle pressure, and the wound dressed with a little simple ointment spread on a piece of clean lint or linen. The diet may be full and liberal until the ^ maturation ’ of the tumour and the discharge of the matter, when it should he lessened, and the bowels kept gently open by saline purgatives, as Epsom-salt or cream of tartar. When there is a disposition in the constitution to the for- mation of boils, the bowels should be kept at all times regular, and tonics, as bark or steel, had recourse to, with the frequent use of sea- bathing when possible. An occasional dose of the Abernethy-medicines (see p. 2) also often prevents their recurrence. A course of sarsa- parilla may he likewise taken with advantage. See Abscess, Tumoues, &c. BOIL'ERS. See Inceijstation and Steam. BOILTHG. In cookery, the operation of dressing food in water at the point of ebul- lition, or one very closely approaching it. The practice of cooking animal food by boiling, although exceedingly simple, and often most convenient, is neither judicious nor economical when the broth or liquid in which it has been dressed is to be rejected as waste; as in this way, the most nutritious portion of the flesh of animals, consisting of soluble saline and other matter required for the formation of hone, and the nutrition of the muscular tissues, &c., is to a great extent lost. This particularly applies to small pieces so dressed, and to those presenting a large surface to the action of the water in proportion to their weight. Large pieces of meat suffer less in proportion than smaller ones, for the same reason ; hut even with them the outside should he rejected, as it is both insipid and innutri- tions compared with the interior portion. To reduce the solvent and deteriorating action of the water to the lowest possible point, the arti- cles to he boiled should not heputinto the water until it is in a state of full ebullition, which should be maintained for 5 or 6 minutes after- wards, by which time the surface, and the parts lying immediately beneath it, will have become, to a certain degree, hardened, and will then act as a protective shield to the inner portion of the mass. To induce tenderness, the subsequent operation should be carried on at a mere ‘ simmer’; the slighter the better. The practice of dressing meat by putting it into ‘cold water,’ which is then gradually raised to the boiling point, cannot be too much censured. A i of an hour per lb. for dressing young meat, poultry, and small pieces, and 20 minutes per lb. for old, tough, and larger ones, are the usual times allowed by cooks for the purpose. See Bouilli, Food, &c. BOILTNG POINT. See Ebullition. BOIS DURCE (bwah dur-sa). [Fr.] The ‘ substance recently invented in France, and to which this name is given, is made from saw- ^ dust, which, under the influence of a high temperature and the enormous pressure of 600 ' tons, acquires a degree of hardness very much exceeding that of ordinary wood. It has a very flne gram, and is unaffected by atmospherical va- riations ; but its principal merit is its adapta- tion to moulding, so that by the most econo- i mical processes, forms and impressions are i given to it which would require, in any other 1 way, considerable labour and workmanship. BOLAS. Sweet light cakes which, accord- ing to Mrs. Rundle, are prepared as follows :— Into flour, 2 lb., pour of warm milk, -? pint, a small teacupful of yeast, and 6 eggs; make a dough, add of butter, 1 lb. (by degrees), and set it in a warm place to rise for an hour; . then mix in of powdered sugar, 1 lb.; and make the mass into cakes; put these into ‘ cups ’ or ‘ tins ’ previously well buttered, and ornament the top v/ith candied orange or /emonjoee/; lastly bake them. Cakes. BOLE. Syn. Bo'lus, L. ; Teree bolaiee, &c., Fr. The name of several argillaceous minerals, varying in colour from white to yellow, red, and brown, which they owe chiefly ^ to iron. See Ochees and Red and Beown \ Pigments. ' BOLET'IC ACID. Syn. AcTdum bolet'i- I CUM, L.; Acide boletique, Fr. A substance |i discovered, by Braconnot, in the juice of the j ‘ boletus pseudo-igniarius.’ ' Prep. The expressed juice is evaporated to the consistence of a syrup by a gentle heat, digested in strong alcohol, and the syrupy ; residuum obtained by evaporating the ‘alco- holic tinctures ’ dissolved \n water; a. solution of nitrate of lead is then added as long as any r precipitate falls, from which crystals of bole- tic ACID may be obtained as directed under • ‘ absinthic acid.’ It is purifled by re-solution and re-crystallisation from alcohol. Prop., ^fC. Boletic acid dissolves in 45 parts of alcohol, and in 180 parts of water, | and is volatile. It is doubtful whether it is a distinct acid. B0L0G"NA PHI'AL (-lawn'-ya). See Phials. BO'LUS. [L., Eng.] Syn. Bol, Fr. Boluses in pharmacy and medicine, are small, roundish j masses of medicinal substances, which are taken in the same manner as pills, which they ,