ERVALENTA—ERYSIPELAS. 575 redness. They are usually separate, not chis- teredVike impetigo, scattered over various parts I of the body, and followed either by a hard j black crust or by a sore.” I Treat. The inflammation and pain may be I generally alleviated by the application of a j lotion formed of rectified spirit of wine, 1 part; I and water, 5 or 6 parts; to which a table- j spoonful of distilled vinegar is often added. The ‘ crusts’ or ‘ scabs/ when they become hard or troublesome, may be removed by a warm fomentation or an emollient poultice; a little simple cerate being afterwards applied to allay irritation. When the constitution is full and inflammatory (as it usually is in impetigo), a depletive treatment may be adopted; when it is low and debilitated (as it usually is in ecthyma), tonics and a more liberal diet, with the free use of lemon juice diluted with water, as a beverage, should be had recourse to. Sea-bathing is also highly useful. See Tet- I TEES. Scaly Eruptions. Syn. Dey tettee. This is a form of inflammatory condition of the true skin (deema), which commonly makes its appearance as a small, dull red, salmon-red, or liver-coloured spot, slightly raised above the level of the surrounding skin, constituting a broad, flat, pimple-like prominence, about the size of a split pea. Upon the surface of this prominence the scarf-skin becomes slightly roughened, and after a little while a very distinct but cii’cular scale is produced, which increases in thickness by the addition of fresh layers, and after assuming various colours in diflerent varieties of the disease, ultimately separates and falls off, either leaving a perma- nently bare surface, or being followed by crops of other like scales, which also fall off, and I are replaced in rapid succession. This class of i eruptions is more obstinate than any of the I other varieties, and often defies medical skill. Each particular form generally requires special treatment. In all, how^ever, endeavours should be made to restore the general health of the body in the manner which existing circum- stances may indicate. The red meats, ripe fruit, and antiscorbutic vegetables, should form a large portion of the diet; and sea-bathing, or I shoioer, sulphuretted, or ioduretted baths, should i be taken daily, if possible. Dry friction with afiesh-brush, and daily exercise to perspiration, are also highly recommended. See Lepeosy, I PSOEIASIS, TeTTEES, &C. [ Vesic'ular Eruptions. Syn. Wateey pim- I PLES. These consist of little vesicles or blad- I ders, filled with a small quantity of a trans- I parent and colourless liquid. They result from ! a similar action to that which produces ordi- I naty blisters. “ Inflammation is excited in j the sensitive skin by an inward or outward I cause, and the inflamed vessels pour out the j watery part of the blood, and so raise the I scarf-skin from off the sensitive layer, in the I form of a small dome, which in some situations i is conical, in others a segment of a sphere.” They present “great variety in point of num- ber and size; some are so minute as to be scarcely discernible without close inspection, whilst others increase to the magnitude of a hen’s egg. They are numerous in the inverse ratio of their size; the smaller ones being very abundant, and the larger ones scanty and few.” These distinctions have led to their classification. “ The smaller vesicles, which are about the size of a pin’s head, and ai’e often clustered together in vast numbers, are known by the term ‘ eczema ;’ when they are of larger dimensions, being equal in bulk to a small pea, they are termed ‘ heepes ;’ when of somewhat larger size they are designated " EUPIA;’ and when tliey assume the bulk of blisters they are termed ‘ pemphiges.’ Treat. This consists chiefly in the due atten- tion to the general principles of health— cleanliness, exercise, food, and raiment, as already pointed out, assisted by such special remedies as the particular case or circum- stances may demand. Antiphlogisiics or tonics must be had recourse to, according to the condition of the system, and local irritation allayed by the usual means. Simple cases fre- quently yield to a dose or two of some saline aperient and a change of diet. See Eey- siPELAS, Pemphiges, Repia, Tettees, and Skin. ERVALEIT'TA. The meal of lentils {Ervum lens,—Linn.), variously doctored with other substances. In some cases the article sold under the name does not contain a particle of lentil meal. Prej). 1. (Paris Ervalenta.) Indian-corn meal (fine), and bean flour, of each, 14 lb.; salt and sugar, of each, lib.; mix, and pass the compound through a sieve. 2. (Warton’s.) Lentil powder, 1 part; durra or Turkey millet flour {Sorghum vulgare), 2 parts. Some persons assert that it contains a large quantity of the flour of Indian corn. See Revalenta and Lentils. ERYlf'GO. Syn. Eeyngiem, L. The root of the Erynyium campestre, a plant common in middle and southern Europe. It is sweet, aromatic, and tonic, and formerly enjoyed much repute in gonorrhoea, suppressed men- struation, and visceral obstructions generally, especially those of the gall-bladder, liver, and uterus. Candied erynyo (eeyngiem condi^ TEM, EEYNGII EADIX condita), according to Lindley, “has the credit of being a decided aphrodisiac,” and has a considerable sale. Eryngium aquaiicum (bitter snake-weed) and E. maritimum (sea eryngo, sea holly) fur- nish the eryngo of the Ph. U. S. See Candy. ERYSIP'ELAS. Syn. St. Anthony’s fiee, The eose. A peculiar form of inflammation, which chiefly attacks the skin, and is gene- rally accompanied or followed by an eruption of a very red colour, sometimes vesicular, and by tumefaction. It commonly attacks the head and face, and is at its height from the third to the sixth day, but the duration and