557 EMERALD—EMETICS. EM'ERALD. Syn. Smaeagdus ; Emeeatjde, Fr. This beautiful deep-green gem ranks next to the diamond in value. The finest are brought from Peru, but fair varieties are i found in Bavaria, Siberia, and India. A fine • emerald weighing 4 or 5 gr. is worth as many pounds; one of 10 gr., about £2 per gr.; one I of 15 gr., £3 to £4 per gr.; and so on in pro- portion to the increase in size. One of 24 gr., t if of pure water, is worth about £100. Ac- cording to the analysis of Vauquelin, the purest specimens consist of 65 parts silica, 14 > alumina, 13 glucina, 2 56 time, and 3‘50 oxide of chromium, to which last the gem owes its rich green colour. See Beeyl, Gems, Pastes, &c. ' Emerald Green. See Geeen Pigments. EMERY is ah impure, amorphous, compact, i and opaque variety of coeundum, and consists of alumina, with a small per-centage of silica and peroxide of iron. It occurs : in Spain, the isles of Greece, and other lo- calities, and derives its name from Cape ' Emeri, in the island of Naxos. Its hardness is so great, that it scratches and wears down . nearly all minerals except the diamond; hence the use of its powder for cutting and polishing glass and various other hard substances. For commercial purposes, the lumps of emery, as taken from the mine, are broken into pieces about the size of a hen’s egg, which are then crushed under ‘ stampers,’ similar to those used for pounding metallic ores. The fcoarse powder is then sifted through sieves covered with wire-cloth of different degrees of fine- ness, by which it is sorted into different ‘sizes.’ In this state it forms the emery of the shops, or FLOUE EMEEY. For delichte purposes, it is I'afterwards prepared by eliitriation. Emery Cakes are formed by melting emery ^^jiour with a little bees' wax, and after thorough admixture, forming it into solid lumps of suitable sizes. Used to dress the edges of buff” and glaze wheels. Emery Cloth is prepared by brushing the surface of thin cotton cloth over with liquid glue, and sifting the emery powder over the surface while still warm. Emery Paper is made in the same way as emery cloth. Both are used either with or without oil, in the same way as glass papee. Emery Sticks are made of pieces of wood in the same way, and are used for the same purposes, as emery paper. Emery Stones are formed of emery, of the requisite coarseness, mixed with about half its weight of good Stourbridge loam, and water q. s. to make a stiff paste, which is forced into metallic moulds by a powerful press. The pieces, when thoroughly dry, are exposed in a muffle for a short time to a temperature just under a full white heat. In this way ‘ discs ’ and ‘laps’ are generally made. For ‘wheels' only |th of loam is used. Another method, applicable for ^ cut ting-stones' generally, is to press the flour emery, previously moistened with water, into moulds, with strong pressure, as before, without any other addition, and then to fire it at nearly a full white heat. EMETTCS. Syn. Vomits, Anacathaetics; Anacathaetica, Emetica, Vomitoeia, L. Medicines which induce vomiting. The prin- cipal emetics are ipecacuanha and tartarized antimony, and their preparations; and the sulphates of zinc and copper. Of these the flrst is commonly employed either in substance or infused in wine(iPECACUANHA wine), when it is merely wished to evacuate the contents of the stomach, when that viscus is in a dis- ordered state or overloaded with food; and is the one most adapted, in ordinary cases, for children and females. Emetic tartar (dis- solved in water) and antimonial wine, either alone or combined with ipecacuanha, are pre- ferable at the commencement of fevers and other inffammatbry disorders, in Consequence of the nausea, relaxation, and depression of the muscular power and circulation which commonly follow their use. When poison HAS BEEN TAKEN, Sulphate of zinc is generally preferred a^ an emetic, on account of the promptness and completeness of its action, and its effects ceasing as soon as it is ejected from the stomach. Sulphate of copper is em- ployed in the same cases as sulphate of zinc, but its action is more violent and disagreeable, whilst its intense metallic taste is a great ob- jection to its use. 25 to 30 gr. of either of the above sulphates are dissolved in 3 or 4 fl. oz. of warm water, and a fourth of the so- lution is given every ten minutes, until copious vomiting ensues. In the absence of other substances, when an immediate emetic is required, a teaspoonful oi floor of mustard (an article always at hand), stirred up with half a pint of warm water, and drank at a draught, will generally act easily and effectively, and relieve the stomach before other remedies can be obtained and applied. The operation of emetics is powerfully pro- moted by drinking copiously of diluents, espe- cially of warm or tepid water. The latter, in fact, is itself an emetic, when taken in quan- tify. Its use will also prevent that dreadful straining and retching, which make emetics so much dreaded by the nervous and delicate. The timely administration of an emetic at the commencement oi fevers and other inflam- matory affections, will frequently cause copious diaphoresis, and produce a cure, or at least greatly mitigate the severity of the symptoms. Dropsies have also been cured by vomiting; and swelled testicle, bubo, and other glandular sivellings, have occasionally been dispersed by the action of emetics. Visceral obstructions, in both sexes, have also yielded to the same treatment. Small and repeated doses of emetics are frequently administered, with ad- vantage, to produce nausea, in many diseases of the lungs and stomach. Certain chronic and obstinate diseases, as rheumatism and asthma, are sometimes relieved by emetics,