874 MAGNESIA. Prep. (M. Garod.) Boro-tartrate of potassa, 100 parts; luater, 600 parts j carbonate of mag- nesia, 24 parts; dissolve by heat, filter, and gently evaporate to dryness. It is made into a medicinal lemonade with a little citric acid, or lemon juice, and some syrup of lemon peel. Phos'phate of Magnesia. Syn. Magnesias PHOSPHAS, L. Prep. From the mixed solu- tions of phosphate of soda and sulphate of mag- nesia, allowed to stand for some time. Small, colourless, prismatic crystals, which, according to Graham, are soluble in about 1000 parts of cold water. Phosphate of magnesia exists in the grains of the cereals, and in considerable quantity in beer. It is also found in guano. Phosphate of Magnesia and Ammo"nia. Syn. AmMONIO-PHOSPHATE op MAGNESIA; MAG- NESIA ET AMMONIA PHOSPHAS, L. This Com- pound falls as a white crystalline precipitate whenever ammonia or its carbonate is added, in excess, to a solution of a salt of magnesia which has been previously mixed with a soluble phosphate, as that of soda. It subsides imme- diately from concentrated solutions, but only after some time from very dilute ones. Prop., 8fc. Ammonio-phosphate of magnesia is very slightly soluble in pure water; when heated, it is resolved into bibasic phosphate, or pyrophosphate of magnesia, and is vitrified at a strong red heat. It is found in wheaten bran, guano, potatoes, &c., and occasionally forms one of the varieties of urinary calculi. Sil'icates of Magnesia. There are several native silicates of magnesia, more or less pure, of which, however, none is directly employed in medicine. Meeeschaum and steatite or SOAP-STONE are well-known varieties. See- PENTINE is a compound of silicate and hydrate of magnesia. The minerals ahgite and hoen- BLENDE are double salts of silicic acid, mag- nesia, and lime, with some protoxide of iron. The beautiful crystallized mineral called chey- SOLITE is a silicate of magnesia, coloured v/ith protoxide of iron. Jade is a double silicate of magnesia and alumina, coloured with ses- quioxide of chromium. •Sul'phate of Magnesia. Syn. Epsom salt, Salts:!:, Epsom saltsJ ; Magnesia sulphas (Ph.L.E. &D.), Sal Epsomensis,L. This com- pound was originally extracted from the saline springs of Epsom, Surreys by Dr. Grew, in 1695. It is now exclusively prepared on the large scale, and from either magnesian limestone or the residual liquor of the sea-salt works. Prep. 1. From dolomite or magnesian LIMESTONE.—u. The mineral, broken into fragments, is heated with a sufficient quantity of dilute sulphuric acid to convert its carbo- nates into sulphates; the sulphate of magnesia is washed out of the mass wdth hot water, and the solution, after defecation, is evaporated and crystallized. b. The ‘ limestone,’ either simply broken into fragments or else calcined (burnt), and its constituent quicklime and caustic magnesia converted into hydrates b;)’- sprinkling (slaking) it with water, is treated with a sufficient quan- tity of dilute hydrochloric acid to dissolve out all the lime without touching the magnesia; the residuum of the latter, after being washed and drained, is dissolved in dilute sulphurio acid, and crystallized as before. c. The mixed hydrates (see b') are digested in a solution of sulphate of iron, with agita- tion, until all the magnesia is dissolved; from the solution crystals of sulphate of magnesia are obtained, as before. The last two methods are included in the patent of Dr. William Henry, of Manchester (1816), and are admira- ble in situations in which hydrochloric acid may be obtained at an exceedingly low rate, as in the neighbourhood of soda ivorks. 2. From bitteen.—a. The residual liquor or mother-water of sea-salt is boiled for some hours in the pans which are used during the summer for the concentration of brine; the saline solution is then skimmed and decanted from some common salt which has been depo- sited, after which it is concentrated by evapo- ration, and, finally, run into wooden coolers; in about 36 hours, l-8th part of Epsom salts usually crystallizes out. This is called ‘ singles.' By re-dissolving this in water, and re-crystal- lization, ‘ doubles,’ or Epsom salts fit for the market, are obtained. A second crop of crys- tals may be procured by adding sulphuric acid to the mother-liquor, and re-concentrating the solution, but this is seldom had recourse to in England, Bittern yields fully 5 parts of sulphate of magnesia for every 100 parts of common salt that has been previously obtained from it. b. (A concentrated solution of sulphate of soda is added to bittern, in equivalent propor- tion to that of the chloride of magnesium in it, and the mixed solution is evaporated at the temperature of 122^ Fahr. (lire); cubical crystals of common salt are deposited as the evaporation proceeds, after which, by further concentration and repose, regular crystals of sulphate of magnesia are obtained. c. A sufficient quantity of calcined and slaked magnesian limestone is boiled in bittern to displace the hydrochloric acid from the magnesia, and the liquid is evaporated, &c., as before. This is a very economical process. Prop. Small acicular crystals, or (by care- ful crystallization) large four-sided rhombic prisms; colourless ; odourless; transparent; slightly efflorescent; extremely bitter and nauseous; when heated, it fuses in its water of crystallization, the larger portion of which readily passes off, but one equivalent of water is energetically retained; at a high tempera- ture it runs into a species of white enamel ; it dissolves in its own weight of cold water, and in 3-4ths of that quantity of boiling water; it is insoluble in both alcohol and ether. Sp. gr. 1’66. Pur. Sulphate of magnesia is soluble in an equal weight of water at 60° Fahr., by which it may be distinguished from sulphate of soda, which is much less soluble. Slmkeu in the