85G LOHOCH—LOTION. LiaXUM, LIGKTTM CAMPECnENSE, L. Campe- ciiianum, L. The wood of llcematoxylon Campechianum, a native of the coast of Cam- peachy, but now common in the West Indies and India. It is a valuable astringent, and its decoction, extract, and infusion, are useful remedies in chronic diarrhoea and dysentery, and in hcemorrhages, &c. The extract is an efficient substitute for catechu and kino. Logwood is extensively employed in dyeing and calico printing, for the production of reds, violets, purples, blacks, drabs, &c. It readily yields its colour both to spirit and boiling w^ater. The colouring matter requires a large quantity of water to dissolve it, but when dis- solved can be concentrated to any degree by boiling down. The infusion is of a hue red, turning on the purple or violet; acids turn it on the YELLOW, and alkalies deepen it. To stuffs mordanted with alum, it gives various shades of violet and pueple, according to the proportions of the materials. By using solution of tin as the mordant, various shades of EED, LILAC, and VIOLET, may be obtained. The addition of a little Brazil wood is com- monly made to brighten the red. With a mordant of sulphate or acetate of iron, it dyes BLACK; and with the addition of a little sul- phate of copper, OEATS of various shades. It is, however, chiefly employed, in conjunction with gall-nuts, for blacks, to which it imparts a lustre and velvety appearance. Silk is usually turned through the cold decoction, but for wool the decoction is used either hot or boiling. Logwood is one of the cheapest and most easily managed of the dye stuffs. It is also used to make ink. See Hematoxylin, Ink, &c. LOHOCH. See Linctks. LORTCA. A species of lute applied as a coating to chemical vessels before exposing them to the Are. Its application is called LOEiCATiON. See Lute. LO'TION. Syn. Lotio, L. An external ap- plication, or wash, consisting of water holding in solution medicinal substances. Lotions may be prepared of any soluble medicaments that are capable of exerting their action by contact with the skin. Writers on pharmacology hxve arranged them in classes, as sedative, anodyne, stimulant, &c., according to their effects. Se- dative and refrigerant lotions are commonly employed to allay inflammation;—anodyne and narcotic lotions, to relieve pain;—stimulant lotions, to induce the maturation of tumours, &c.;—detergent lotions, to clean foul ulcers;— repellent and resolvent lotions, to discuss tu- mours, remove eruptions, &c.; counter-irritant lotions, to excite a secondary morbid action, with the intention of relieving one already existing. Lotions are usually applied by wet- ting a piece of linen with them and keeping it on the part affected; or, in slight cases, by moistening the part with the Angers pre- viously dipped into them. Lotions are more agreeable if made with rose water, but are not | thereby rendered more efficacious. In all cases, distilled water, or filtered soft water, is alone admissible as the solvent. As lotions are, in general, mere extempora- neous or magistral preparations, it will, of course, be only necessary here to give the for- mulae for a few of those which are the most useful or the most frequently employed. These will serve as examples from which others may be prepared. As a geneeal eule, the me- dium dose of any substance dissolved in a fluid ounce of distilled water, forms a lotion of the proper strength, under all ordinary circura- stances; or, what is the same thing, the me- dium dose in grains, taken in scruples, is suffi- cient for a pint of such a lotion. Thus; the dose of suljBiate of zinc is 1 to 3 gr., therefore— ^ P^’®* portion of sulphate of zinc, to be taken for \fl. oz. of ivater, or 40 gr. for 1 pint. Again, the dose of bichloride of mercury is ^ to f gr.; therefore— gr.; or nearly | gr. per fi. oz., and 8^ gr. per pint. In this method extreme or unusual doses, as, for instance, those of sulphate of zinc, as an emetic, in poisoning, &c., are not taken into the calcu- lation. In all cases in which lotions are in- tended for extremely susceptible parts, it is proper to dilute them with an equal bulk of water. When intended for eye-waters (col- lyeia), they should lie diluted with at least 3 to 4 times their bulk of water. See Embeo- CATioN, Liniment, &c. Lotion of Ac'etate of Ammo"nia. Sy7i. Lotio ammoni.® acetatis, L. Prep. 1. Solution of acetate of ammonia, 1 part; water, 2 parts. 2. (Hosp. F.) Solution of acetate of am- monia, rectified spirit, and water, equal parts. Discutient and refrigerant. In ordinary in- flammations. Lotion of Ac'etate of Lead. Syn. Lotio PLUMBI acetatis, L. Prep. (Collier.) Sugar of lead, 1 dr.; distilled water, 8 fl. oz. Some- times a little vinegar is added. In excoria- tions, burns, sprains, contusions, &c. See Solution oe Diacetate of Lead. Lotion of Ac'etate of Zinc. Syn. Lotio ziNCi ACETATIS, L. Prep. (Beral.) Acetate of zinc, 1 j dr.; water, 1 pint. Astringent; similar to lotion of sulphate of zinc. Ace'tic Lotion. Syn. Lotio aceti, L. Prep. 1. Vinegar, 1 part; water, 2 or 3 parts. For bruises, contusions, &c., and as a general refrigerant application to sound parts. 2. Vinegar, 1 fl. oz.; cold water, i pint; as a w'ash in chronic ophthalmia, &c. Ac'id Lotion. See Lotions of Acetic, Ni- TEic, and PnosPHOEic Acid, &c. Lotion of Acon'itine. Syn. Lotio aconi- tine, L. Prep, ('rurnbull.) Aconitine, 8 gr.; rectified spirit, 2 fl. oz. In neuralgia ; applied by means of a small piece of sponge mounted I 1 n