885 MAPLE ACID—MAKBLTNG. and sulphate of ammonia, of each, 1 part. The seed is ordered to be steeped in the ‘ drain- ings’ from a dunghill, and after being drained, hut whilst still wet, to be sprinkled with the i powder, and then dried. See Flowees, Lime I (Superphosphate), &c. 1 MATLE ACID. See Aceeic Acid. I MAPS. These, as well as architect’s and ( engineer’s DESIGNS, plans, sections, deaw- INGS, &c., may be tinted with any of the simple liquid colours mentioned under ‘ Velvet Co- LOUES,’ preference being given to the most I transparent ones, which will not obscure the ! lines beneath them. To prevent the colours from sinking and spreading, which they usually do on common paper, the latter should be wetted 2 or 3 times with a sponge dipped in alum \ water (3 or 4 oz. to the pint), or with a solu- tion of white size, observing to dry it care- fully after each coat. This tends to give lustre and beauty to the colours. The colours for this purpose should also be thickened with I a little gum water. Before varnishing maps after colouring them, 2 or 3 coats of clean size should be applied with a soft brush—the first one to the back. MARASCHI'NO (-ke'-no). Syn. Maeasquin, Fr. A delicate liqueur sj)irit distilled from a pe- culiar cherry growing in Dalmatia, and after- wards sweetened with sugar. The best is from Zara, and is obtained from the marasca j cherry only. An inferior quality is distilled from a mixture of cherries and the juice of liquorice root. MAEAS'MUS. Emaciation, with corre- I sponding debility. A gradual wasting away pof the flesh, accompanied by diminished health I and vital energy, without any other apparent j disease. It is more especially applied to the I ‘decline’ of infancy, childhood, and early i youth. See Ateophy, Anemia, Ac. j MAR'BLE. Syn. Limestone, Haed cae- 1 bonate op Lime ; Maemoe, Galois caebonas DiJEUS, M. ALBUM (Ph. E. & D.), L. Mar- bles are merely purer and more compact va- I rieties of limestone, which admit of being I sawn into slabs, and are susceptible of a fine j polish. White inai’ble is employed for the j preparation of carbonic acid and some of the ; salts of lime. It contains about G5g of lime, j Sp. gr. 2'70 to 2-85. The tests of its purity I are the same as those already noticed under i Chalk. ; Marble is best cleaned with a little soap-and- ■ water, to which some ox-gall may be added. I Acids should be avoided. Oil and grease may ! be generally removed by spreading a paste I made of soft soap, caustic potash lye, and \ fuller’s earth, over the part, and allowing it to I remain there for a few days; after which it must be washed off with clean water. Any ■ defect of polish may be brought up with I tripoli, followed by q^utty powder, both being used along with water. Marble is mended with one or other of the j compoumls noticed under Cements. Marble may be stained or dyed of various colours by applying coloured solutions or tine- tures to the stone made sufficiently hot to make the liquid just simmer on the surface. The following are the substances usually employed for this purpose :— Blue. Tincture or solution of litmus, or an alkaline solution of indigo. Beown. Tincture of logwood. Ceimson. a solution of alkanet root in oil of turpentine. Flesh coloue. Wax tinged with alkanet root, and applied to the marble hot enough to melt it freely. Gold coloue. A mixture of equal parts of white vitriol, sal ammoniac, and verdigris, each in fine powder, and carefully applied. Geeen. An alkaline solution or tineture of sap green, or wax strongly coloured with verdigris; or the stone is first stained blue, and then the materials for yellow stain are applied. Red. Tincture of dragon’s blood, alkanet root, or cochineal. Yellow. Tincture of gamboge, turmeric, or saffron; or wax coloured with annotta. Success in the application of these eolours requires considerable experience. By their skilful use, however, a very pleasing effect, both of colour and grain, may be produced. MAR'BLIIIG (of Books, &c.). The edges and covers of books are ‘ marbled ’ by laying the colour on them with a brush, or by means of a wooden trough containing mucilage, as fol- lows :—Provide a wooden trough, 2 inches deep, 6 inches wide, and the length of a super- royal sheet; boil in a brass or copper pan any quantity of linseed and water until a thick mucilage is formed; strain this into the trough, and let it cool; then grind on a marble slab any of the following colours in table beer. For—BLUE, Prussian blue or indigo ;—eed, rose-pink, vermilion, or drop lake;—yellow, king’s yellow, yellow ochre, &c.;—white, flake white;—BLACK, ivory black, or burnt lamp- black;—BEOWN, umber, burnt u., terra di sienna, burnt s.; black, mixed with yellow or red, also makes brown;—geeen, blue and yellow mixed;—PURPLE, red and blue mixed. For each colour provide two cups—one for the ground colours, the other to mix them with the ox-gall, which must be used to thin them at discretion. If too much gall is used, the colours spread; when they keep their place on the surface of the trough, on being moved with a quill, they are fit for use. All things being in readiness, the prepared colours are suecessively sprinkled on the surface of the mucilage in the trough with a brush, and are waved or drawn about with a quill or stick, according to taste. When the design is thus formed, the book, tied tightly between cutting boards of the same size, is lightly pressed with its edge on the surface of the liquid pattern, and then withdrawn and dried. The covers may be marbled in the same way, only the