731 HONEYS. that obtained by heat and pressure. The former is pale and fragrant; the latter darker, and possessing a less agreeable taste and smell.—‘English honey^ is chiefly collected from furze and broom flowers, and is more waxy than that from the South of Europe;— I ‘Narbonne honeychiefly from rosemary, and other labiate flowers, very fine;—‘Poisonous honey ’ is found near Trehizond, in Asia. Pur. Honey is frequently adulterated with treacle, potato-sugar syrup, potato farina, starch, and wheat flour. The first may be detected by the colour and odour; the second, in the way noticed under Sugar; and the others by the honey not forming a nearly clear solution with cold water, and striking a blue colour with iodine. When it contains wheat flour, and is heated, it at first liqiiefles, but on cooling it becomes solid and tough. The ab- sence of starchy matter or flour is easily proved by the following test:—“ If, when dissolved in water by a heat approaching to 170° and cooled again, it be mixed with iodide of potassium and dilute nitric acid, it exhibits no blue colour.’' (Ph. L.) Uses, ^-c. Honey is nutritive and laxative, but rather apt to gripe. It is employed in the preparation of oxymels and gargles, and also to cover the taste of nauseous medi- cines, which it does better than sugar. Clarified honey is alone ordered to be used in medicine. Clar'ified Honey. Syn. Keeined honey, Strained h. ; Mel depuratum (Ph. D.), Mel pr^paratum, L. The honey is simply melted by the heat of a water bath, and strained whilst hot through flannel (Ph. D.) ; or—it is melted as last, and the scum removed (Ph. U. S.); or—it is melted with l-3rd its weight of water, skimmed, strained through flannel, and evaporated until it reaches the ^ sp. gr. 1-261. (P. Cod.) Honey is not to be employed without being despumated. (Ph. L.) Obs. Clarified honey is less agreeable than raw honey, and has lost the crystalline cha- racter of the latter; but it is less liable to ferment and gripe. The use of copper and iron vessels or implements should be avoided, as honey acquires a dark colour bj’’ contact with them. Berlin-ware, stone-ware, or well- silvered or tin copper pans, should alone be used. On the large scale, one or other of the following plans are adopted:— 1. The honey is mixed with an equal weight of water and allowed to boil up 5 or 6 times without skimming; it is then removed from the fire, and after being cooled, brought on several strong linen strainers, stretched hori- zontally, and covered with a layer of clean and well-washed sand, an inch in depth; the sand is rinsed with a little cold water, and the mixed liquor is finally evaporated to the thick- ness of syrup. 2. Dissolve the honey in water, as last, clarify with white of egg, and evaporate to a proper consistence. 3. Dissolve in water, add 1^ lb. of animal charcoal to every ^ cwt. of honey, gently simmer for 15 minutes, add a little chalk to saturate excess of acid, if required, strain or clarify, and evaporate. 4. Honey, 1 cwt.; water, 9 gall.; fresh burnt animal charcoal, 7 lb.; simmer for 15 minutes, add a little chalk to saturate free acid (if re- quired), strain or clarify, and evaporate as before. HONEYS. (In pharmacy.) Syn. Mellita, L. These are minor preparations, now almost superseded by ‘syrups’ (syrupi). The mel- lita of the Ph. L., including two ‘ oxymels,’ are only four in number. Honey of Bo"rax. Syn. Mel boracis (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Powdered borax, 1 dr.; clarified honey, 1 oz.; mix. Astringent, detersive, and cooling. It is em- ployed in aphthjB of the mouth, excessive salivation, &c. It is incompatible with acids, and is decomposed by compound infusion of roses, with which it is commonly ordered. The formulse of the other Colleges are similar. Honey of Col'chicum. Syn. Mel colchici, L. Prep. (Beasley.) Dried colchicum, 1 part; water (at 140°), 16 parts; infuse for 12 hours, strain, let it settle, and boil the clear liquor with white honey, 12 parts, to the con- sistence of a syrup. See Colchicum. Honey of Liq’uorice. Syn. Mel glycyrrhi- ZATUM, L. Prep. (Ph. Hamb.) Honey and a strong infusion of liquorice boiled to a proper consistence. Emollient, pectoral, and laxative. Honey of Male Fern. Syn. Mel pilicis, L. Prep. (Dunglison.) Ethereal extract of male fern, 30 gr.; honey of roses, ^ dec.', mix. In tape-worm. Dose. One half at bed-time, followed by the remainder in the morning. Honey of Mercury. Syn. Mel hydrargyri, L. Prep. (Bell.) Mercury, 1 dr.; honey, 1 oz.; triturate till the globules disappear. Allard adds of oil of cloves, ^ dr. Properties , similar to those of mercurial pill. It is chiefly used as an application to ulcers of the throat. Honey of Houses. Syn. MELROS.u(Ph.L.&E,), L. P?'ep. 1. (Ph. L.) Dried petals of the red rose (the leaves separated), 4 oz.; boiling water, 16 fl. oz.; macerate for 2 hours, lightly press them in the hand, and strain; then add 8 fl. oz. more of boiling water to the roses, macerate for a short time, and again gently express the liquor; to this add half of the first infusion, and set aside the other half; next add to the mixed liquors, honey, 5 lb,, and evaporate in a water bath, so that, the infusion which was set aside being added, it may become of a proper consistence. 2. (Ph. E.) Dried rose petals, 4 oz.; boiling water, 2^ pints; infuse for 6 hours, and gently squeeze out the liquor; after the impurities have subsided, decant the clear, add of honey, 5 lb., and evaporate, as before, to a proper consistence, removing the scum which forms. Used to make astringent gargles. It must not be boiled in a copper or iron vessel, as they will spoil the colour. The last form is that commonly adopted in trade.