AURANTIINE—AUTOMATON. 248 or rind. Some of tlie genera embrace plants j of great beauty and utility. A few of tbe | Indian species are climbers. The genus cit'kus, which includes the orange, lemon, citron, lime, \ bergamot, and shaddock, is that best known i in Europe. I AURAN'TIINE (-she-m). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. I Atjran'tine* (-tin), Eng.,Fr.; Atjeantii'na, ! &c., L. The bitter principle of the peel of oranges and lemons. Prep. The exterior or yellow peel of the Se- ville orange (carefully separated from the white matter, and air-dried) is steeped in hot water, and the filtered liquor gently evaporated to dryness. Prop., (fc. It possesses the bitter properties of the peel without any of its glutinosity or fragrance, and is said to agree better with de- licate stomachs. It may be taken in water either with or without the addition of a little sugar or capillaire, or dissolved in wine. AU"RIC (aw'- or awr'-). Syn. Aij"eicus, L. Of or relating to gold, or containing it, or formed from it. AU"mC ACID. Syn. Acidtjm Ar"EiciTM, L.; Acide d’oe, Fr. In chemistry, teroxide of gold, from its manifesting acid properties. Its compounds or salts are called atj"eates (Eng. Fr.; aij"ea6, L. sing.). AURIC'ULAR (-u-lar). Syn. ArEicrLA^Eis, L.; Atjeiculaiee, Oeiculaiee, Fr.; Das Ohr beteeffend, Zum ohe gehoeig, Ger. Of or belonging to the ear, or to the sense of hearing; recognised or received by the ear. AURIF'EROUS. Syn. Au"eifee, Aijeif'- EEUS, L.; Ageifere, Fr.; Goldhaltig, Ger. In mineralogy, that yields or contains gold; as auriferous sand, a. quartz, c^c. AURIPIGMEN'TUMf. [L.] Literally, ‘paint of gold'; native orpiment. See Arsenic. j AU"RIST (aw'- or awr'-). One who attends wholly or chiefly to ag"eistey, or that branch of surgery and medicine which includes diseases of the ear. See Deafness, Ear, &c. AURO-CY'ANIDES (-idz). In chemistry compounds of cyanide of gold with cyanides of other bases. They may be formed in a similar ; manner to the auro-chlorides. Auro-cyanide of potassium is much used in electro-gilding. AURO-TERCHLO"RIDES (-klore'-idz). Syn. Ageo-chlo"-eides. Compounds of terchloride of gold with chlorides of other bases. They may be prepared by mixing the terchloride of gold with the chloride of the base, in atomic proportions, and setting aside the solution to crystallise. Prop., 4'c. Most of the auro-chlorides crys- tallise in prisms, dissolve in both alcohol and water, have an orange or yellow colour, and are decomposed at a red heat. Auro-chlo"ride of Hy'drogen. Formed by cautiously evaporating an acid solution of ter- chloride of gold. AU"RUM (awr'- or aw'-). [L.; Ph. L.] Gold.—Ageem facti"tigm is brass; a. fo- lia'tgm, leaf-gold; A. fgl'minans, fulmi- nating gold; A. hoeizonta'le, the mercurius auri of the alchemists; an imaginary prepa- ration deflned to be “ the esential part of gold fixed by the alkahest,” and so called from being compared to the rising sun; a. lepeo'- SGM, antimony; a. mosa'icgm, a. MGSi'VGir, Mosaic gold or bisulphuret of tin ; a. potab'- ILE (-e-le), potable gold; A.soPHis'TiCGM,brass. AUSCULTA'TION (aws-). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Agscglta'tio, L. ; Zghoeen, Ger. Literally, ‘ a listening to.' In medicine, the act, art, or method, of detecting and distinguishing dis- eases, especially of the parts connected with respiration and circulation, by listening to the i functional sounds of the diflerent organs, or i to those emitted when the overlying or adja- cent parts are struck. In examinations of this kind the ear may be applied immediately to the part (imme"diate agscglta'tion) ; but is more generally assisted by the inter- vention of a stethoscope (3Ie"diate a.) ; and hence, it is the last method that is commonly understood by the word ‘ auscultation.' See Peecgssion, Stethoscope, &c. AUTOG'ENOUS (-toj'-). Syn. Agtoge''- NEAL; Agtog'engs (-toj'-), L. Self-gene- rating or effecting; acting without the aid of foreign matter. In anatomy, 8fc., developed from distinct and independent centres; as parts or processes. Among metallists, it de- notes a method of joining metals by fusing the parts in contact, by means of a flame of hy- drogen, or of a mixture of hydrogen and corn- mon air, without the intervention of a fusible alloy or solder. Lead, and even ordinary hard solders, are, however, sometimes so employed, and the name, though improperly, retained. AU'TOGRAPH (-graf). 'The hand-writing of a person, in distinction from an ap'ograph j or copy. See Facsimile, Inks, &c. AUTOMAT'IC. Syn. Agtomat'icgs,Agtom'- ATGS, L.; Agtomatiqge, Fr.; Agtoma- TISCHE, Ger. Self-acting or self-moving, or that seems to be so; mechanical; of or re- sembling an automaton. In physiology, in- ' voluntary, applied to functions which are per- ; formed -v^ithout the operation of the will; as j the movements in respiration, the contractions I and dilations of the heart, the persistent con- j traction of the sphincters, &c. In mechanics, <^e., moving and acting from concealed ma- chinery ; also, as applied to machinery, self- regulating and directing, within the limits prescribed by its author, though moved by ex- ternal power. To the last class belongs the self-acting machinery of our flax and cotton mills, our engineering establishments, &c.; in which the elemental powers are made to animate, as it were, millions of complex organs, infusing into forms of wood, iron, and brass, an agency resembling that of intelligent beings. The manufactures in which such machinery is employed are termed the agtomatic arts. AUTOM'ATON. [Gr., L., Eng.; class, pi, autom'ata ; Eng. pi, autom'atons.] Syn. Ag- tom'atgm, L. ; Agtomate, Fr.; Agtomat,