1256 SWEETMEATS-SYRUP. improper both for dyspeptics and invalids. (Pereira.) SWEET'MEATS. Under this head are pro- perly included confections, candies, and pre- serves, in sugar; but, as generally employed, the word embraces all the sweet compounds of the confectioner. Sweetmeats, as well as calces, blancmange, jellies, are not unfrequently coloured with deleterious substances, the consequences of which are always pernicious, and, in many instances, have proved fatal. Gamboge, a drastic cathartic; chrome yellow, red lead, orpiment, emerald green, and various other pig- ments containing lead, arsenic, copper, or other poisons, have been thus employed. The whole of these may be readily detected by the tests and characteristics appended to their re- spective names. The colours and stains which may be safely employed to increase the beauty -of these articles are noticed under Stains and Liqueue. SWINE-POX. See page 1138. SYCO'SIS. An obstinate tubercular erup- tion, which chiefly attacks the scalp and part of the face covered by the beard, more espe- cially the chin. The treatment is the same as for ACNE, of which it is a variety. SYDENHAM’S LENITIVE. Prep. Take of rhubarb (recently grated or powdered), 3 dr.; tamarinds, 2 07..', senna, ^ oz.; coriander seeds (bruised), 2 dr.; boiling water, 1 pint; macerate for 3 hours in a covered vessel, and strain. An excellent stomachic and laxative. Dose. ^ to 1 wine-glassful. SYLTIC ACID. Syn. Silvic acid. The portion of common resin or colophony which is the least soluble in cold and somewhat dilute alcohol. It crystallizes in small, colourless, rhombic prisms; is freely soluble in hot strong alcohol, volatile oils, and ether; and is distin- guished from PINIC ACID by its slight solu- bility in cold alcohol of the sp. gr. *883. With alkalies it forms salts called syl- vATES, which are soluble in both alcohol and ether. SYM'BOLS. In chemistry, are representa- tions of one atom or equivalent of each of the elementary or pseudo-elementary bodies, by the capital initial letter or letters of their Latin names. As C, for carbon ; Ee (ferrum), iron; O, oxygen, &c. Chemical POKMULiE are combinations and arrangements of these symbols, to show the composition of bodies, and the changes which they undergo in their various combinations and decompositions. The symbols and formulae of some of the more im- portant substances are given in our Table op Equivalents {page 568). SYMPATHETTC ink. See page 781. SYN'APTASE. Syn. Emulsin. The name given by Robiquet to the emulsin, or vege- table casein, which forms a large proportion of the white pulp of both the bitter and sweet almond. It possesses the remarkable property of converting amygdalin, in the presence of water, into hydeocyanic acid and the essen- tial OIL OP BITTEE ALMONDS. 100 gr. of amygdalin yield, under the influence of synap- tase and water, 47 gr. of raw oil, and 5’9 gr. of anhydrous hydrocyanic acid. (Liebig.) SYN'COPE. See Fainting. SYN'OCHA. See Fevee. SYPHTLIS. A well-known contagious disease, characterised by symptoms too nume- rous and delicate to be usefully described here. In all cases in this, as well as in other kindred affections, the assistance of a skilful surgeon should be promptly sought. SYR'UP. Syn. Sieup, Sieop; Syeupus, L. A saturated, or nearly saturated, solution of sugar in water, either simple, flavoured, or medicated. In the preparation of syrups care should be taken to employ the best refined sugar, and either distilled water ox filtered rain water; by which they will be rendered much less liable to spontaneous decomposition, and will be per- fectly transparent, without the trouble of cla- rification. When inferior sugar is employed, clarification is always necessary. This is best done by dissolving the sugar in the water, or other aqueous menstruum, in the cold, and then beating up a little of the cold syrup with some ivhite of egg, and an ounce or two of cold water, until the mixturewell; this must be added to the syrup in the boiler, and the whole ‘ whisked up’ to a good froth; heat should now be applied, and the scum which forms removed from time to time with a clean ‘skimmer.’ As soon as the syrup begins to slightly simmer it must be removed from the fire, and allowed to stand until it has cooled a little, when it should be again skimmed, if necessary, and then passed through clean fian- net. When vegetable infusions or solutions enter into the composition of syrups, they should be rendered perfectly transparent by filtration or clarification, before being added to the sugar. The proper quantity of sugar for syrups will, in general, be found to be 2 lb. (avoir.) to every imperial pint of water or thin aqueous fiuid. These proportions, allowing for the water that is lost by evaporation during the process, are those best calculated to produce a syrup of the proper consistence, and pos- sessing good ‘ keeping qualities.’ They closely correspond to those recommended by Guibourt for the production of 2. perfect syrup, which, ho says, consists of 30 parts of sugar to 16 parts of water. In the preparation of syrups it is of great importance to employ as little heat as possible, as a solution of sugar, even when kept at the temperature of boiling water, undergoes slow decomposition. The plan which we adopt is to pour the water (cold) over the sugar, and to allow the two to lie together for a few hours, in a covered vessel, occasionally stirring, and.» then to apply a gentle heat (preferably that of *