716 GUANO. stances, is an extremely tedious and difficult matter in the hands of persons unaccustomed to chemical manipulations. As, however, its value to the agriculturalist depends, chiefly, on its richness in ammonia, potassa, and PHOSPHORIC ACID, the analysis of guano for practical purposes may be reduced to an assay for these articles. Indeed, the presence of ammonia (the most valuable of them), in the proper quantity, may be fairly taken as evi- dence of the presence of the rest. The fol- lowing methods of testing guano are both simple and accurate, and are so arranged as to permit its per-centage richness in one or more of its leading constituents to be determined without much trouble or expense. 1. —a. 100 gr. of the sample for cxamina-, lion (fairly selected) are crushed to powder, and placed on a small, weighed, and perfectly dry paper filter, and then desiccated, by expo- sure for 2 or 3 hours to the heat of boiling water. The loss in weight, taken in grains, after deducting 9, indicates the quantity per cent, of 'WATER or moisture which the sample contains in excess of that present in good or pure guano.^ b. The paper filter, with its contents, is next suspended for some time over concentrated sul- phuric acid (oil of vitriol) contained in a wide- mouthed bottle or jar, liy means of’a thread attached to the cork or stopper, care being taken to exclude the external air. The expo- sure in this way is continued until the guano ceases to diminish in weight, which is ascer- tained by weighing it at intervals after the first 3 or 4 hours. When this point is arrived at, the filter and its contents are very care- fully weighed. The difference between its present weight and its original weight (before the desiccation in a), taken in grains, gives the gross quantity of water per cent. c. The dried guano from (^) is next placed in a weighed, smooth crucible or capsule, and exposed to a low red heat until all the organic matter is completely destroyed, and the whole is reduced to a white ash, which is weighed as soon as it has become cold. This weight, in grains, gives the gross weight per cent, of NON-VOLATILE MATTER \^fixed alkaline and earthy chlorides, phosphates, and sulphates) ; the total loss of weight by combustion denotes the gross per-centage of combustible and VOLATILE MATTER (urea, uric acid, ammoniacal salts, and organic matter). The latter should not be less than 55 to 60^. 2. —a. A second 100 gr. of the guano, se- lected as before, is distilled along with about 75 gr. of fresh-slaked quicklime, and a little water, in a small matrass connected with a tubular, triple bulb-condenser, containing cold distilled water, and immersed in a basin of ice-cold water. (See engr^ The condenser is charged by plunging one of its extremities into the water, and sucking at the other, until 1 According to Dr. Noad, the proportion of water in genuine guanos ranges from 7 to 20§. the liquid reaches the level indicated in the margin. A very gentle heat only, cautiously increased, need be employed. After the pro- cess is over, the strength of the solution of ammonia found in the condenser is tested,- either by taking its density in a small specific- gravity bottle, or by determining its saturat- ing power in the manner described under Alkalimetry. This furnishes the per-centage of READY FORMED AMMONIA sufficiently accu- rate for all ordinary purposes, provided proper care is taken. When extreme accuracy is required, the condenser is charged with a w’^eighed quantity of dilute hydrochloric acid of a known strength, instead of water, and after the process is over this is tested as before. The quantity of am- moniacal test-liquor (see Alkalimetry) now taken To saturate it,' deducted from what it would have taken before the exposure in the condenser, gives the per-centage sought. 'Another method, giving very accurate re- sults, is to use a rather'strong hydrochloric acid (sp. gr. about 1‘13) for the condenser; after the operation is over, the contents of the latter are poured into a glass or porcelain cap- sule, a solution of bichloride of platinum is added, in excess, and- the whole is then gently evaporated to dryness; the residuum is rubbed to powder, and exhausted with a mixture of two measures of alcohol and one measure of ether ; the undissolved portion is next dried at a heat not exceeding 212° Fahr., and weighed. The weight, in grains, of the ammonio-chloride of platinum thus obtained, multiplied by •0763, gives the per-centage of ready-formed ammonia, as before. When hydrochloric acid is used for the condenser, a simple (U) tube and beaker- glass may be employed, if a bulb-condenser is not at hand. (See engr^ The ad- vantages resulting from the use of acid instead of water for the condenser is, that with the former no ammo- nia can possibly escape being absorbed, whilst little care is required to keep the condenser cool.