STRONTIUM—STRYCHNINE. 1242 its sulphate. It is also distinguished from each of the preceding earths by its soluble salts giving a deep carmine-red tinge to flame; while the salts of baryta impart a yellow tinge, and those of lime a yellowish-red one. See Fires (Coloured). STRON'TIUM. [Eng., L.] The metallic base of the earth strontia. It was discovered by Sir H. Davy, in 1808. It closely resem- bles BARIFM, but is less lustrous. With chlorine it combines to form chloride of STRONTIUM, a somewhat deliquescent salt, soluble in 2 parts of cold and in less of boiling water, and freely soluble in alcohol. With oxygen it forms a protoxide (strontia), and a BiNOXiDE or PEROXIDE, which is prepared in the same manner as ‘ binoxide of barium.’ STROPH'ULUS. A papular eruption pecu- liar to infants. There are several varieties:— In STROPHULUS INTERTINCTUS, RED HUM, or RED GOWN, the pimples rise sensibly above the level of the cuticle, possess a vivid red colour, and are usually distinct from each other; they commonly attack the cheeks, forearm, and back of the hand, and, occasionally, other parts of the body.—In strophulus albidus, or WHITE GUM, there are a number of minute whitish specks, which are, sometimes, sur- rounded by a slight redness. The two pre- ceding varieties commonly occur during the first two or three months of lactation.—r-In STROPHULUS CONFERTUS, RANK RED GUM, Or TOOTH RASH, which usually appears about the fourth or fifth month, the pimples usually occur on the cheeks and sides of the nose, sometimes on the forehead and arms, and still less frequently on the loins. They are smaller, set closer together, and less vivid, but more permanent, than in the common red gum.—In STROPHULUS voLATicus Small circular patches or clusters of pimples, each containing from 6 to 12, appear successively on different parts of the body, accompanied with redness; and as one patch declines another springs up near it, by which the efflorescence often spreads gra- dually over the whole face and body.—In STROPHULUS CANDIDUS the pimples are larger than in the preceding, and are pale, smooth, and shining; it principally attacks the upper parts of the arms, the shoulders, and the loins. The last two varieties commonly appear be- tween the third and ninth month. The treatment of the above affections con- sists chiefly in removing acidity and indiges- tion, and duly regulating the bowels by an occasional dose of magnesia or rhubarb, or both combined. Diarrhoea may be met by the warm bath and the daily use of arrow-root {genuine), to which a teaspoonful or two of pure port wine has been added; and itching and irritation may be alleviated by the use of a lotion consisting of water, to which a little milk, lemon juice, borax, or glycerin, has been added. STR YCH'NINE. Syn. Strychnina, Strychnia (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prep. 1. Dissolve hydrochlorate or sulphate of strychnine in distilled water, and throw down the alka-! loid with ammonia, carefully avoiding excess ;i redissolve the precipitate in hot rectified spirit, and collect the crystals which form as thei liquid cools. 2. (Ph. D.) Nux vomica (in powder), 1 lb.,\ is digested for 24 hours in f gall, of watei- acidulated with 2 fl. dr. of sulphuric acid, after which it is boiled for half an hour, and the. decoction decanted; the residuum is boiled a second and a third time with a fresh \ gall, of water acidulated with 1 fl. dr. of the acid, and the undissolved matter is finally submitted t< strong expression; the decoctions are next fil-: tered and concentrated to the consistence of a syrup, which is boiled with rectified spirit, 3 pints, for about 20 minutes, hydrate of lime 1 oz., or q. s., being added in successive por- tions during the ebullition, until the solution becomes distinctly alkaline; the liquid is then filtered, the spirit distilled off, and the re- siduum dissolved in diluted sulphuric acid, q, s. ammonia, in slight excess, is added to the fil- tered solution, and the precipitate which fall; is collected upon a paper filter, and dried; il: is next redissolved in a minimum of boilini^ rectified spirit, and digested with ^ oz. o*' animal charcoal for 20 minutes; the filterec liquid, as it cools, deposits strychnine, in crys tals. Prop. A white, inodorous, infusible powder or small, but exceedingly brilliant, transparent colourless, octahedral crystals; soluble in abou 7000 parts of water at 60°, and in 2500 part at 212° Fahr.; freely soluble in hot rectifiec spirit; insoluble in absolute alcohol, ether, an(, solutions of the caustic alkalies; imparts a dis', tinctly bitter taste to 600,000 times its weigh of w’ater (1 part in 1,000,000 parts of wate is still perceptible—Fownes); exhibits an alka line reaction; and forms salts with the acids which are easily prepared, are crystallizabk and well defined. Pur. “ Crystals.” On the application o: heat it liquefies, and if the heat be increase it is destroyed.” (Ph. L.) “Nitric aci strongly reddens it” {commercial, not th pure); “ a solution of 10 gr. in 4 fl. oz. c: water and 1 fl. dr. of pyroligneous acid, whe decomposed by 1 fl. oz. of concentrated solu tion of carbonate of soda, yields, on brisk agita tion, a coherent mass, weighing, when dry 10 gr., and entirely soluble in solution c oxalic acid.” (Ph. E.) Tests.—1. Potassa and its carbonate pr( duce, in solutions of the salts of strychni. white precipitates, which are insoluble in exce- of the precipitant, and which, when viewe through a lens magnifying 100 times, appe; as aggregates of small crystalline needles. 1 weak solutions the precipitate only separatt after some time, in the form of crystallh needles, which are, however, in this case, pe fectly visible to the naked eye.—2. Ammon gives a similar precipitate, which is soluble