A CYCLOPAEDIA PRACTICAL RECEIPTS, PROCESSES, AND COLLATERAL INFORMATION. A—ABATTOIR. A-, ab-, abs-. [L.] In composition, from, denoting distance, departure, separation, or opposition; as in aberration, abstraction, ab- normal, &c. A-, an-. [Gr.] In composition, no, not, without, denoting the absence or loss of some quality or thing ; as in achromatic, anhydrous, amorphous, &c. AB'ACA (-kaA). A species of vegetable fibre, of several varieties, obtained in the Philippine Islands, and remarkable for its brilliancy, strength, and durability. The finer kinds are woven into muslins, and other delicate fabrics; the coarser, are formed into mats, cordage, and sail-cloth. It has been recently employed in Paris for the manufacture of various articles of furniture and dress; including bonnets, tapestry, carpets, network, hammocks, &c. The fibre, and fabrics made of it, may be bleached and dyed in a similar manner to flax and linen. AB'ACUS. [Eng., L.] Syn. Arithmom'eter ; ArITH'mETEE J; AbAQTJE, Fr. ; SCHWANPAN, Swan-pan, Chi. An instrument frequently employed in the Infant-schools of this country to teach the rudiments of arithmetic, and universally among the Chinese for the same purpose. Hist., 8fc. Its origin is lost in its antiquity. It -was in common use among the ancient Greeks, and all the early nations. In Rome, as we are told, its employment formed an essential part of the education of every noble youth. (Pers., Sat. i, 132.) Its earliest form was that of a table, or hoard, sprinkled with sand or dust. The Grecian abacus, like that of the Chinese, resembled the one figured below, except in being oblong. In the Roman abacus the counters were slid along grooves. In Europe, during the middle ages, a bench or ‘ bank,’ covered with chequered cloth or paint, was used to place the counters on. Hence the terms exchequer, bank, bankrupt, &c., as well as the practice of placing a chequered board or sign on the sides of the doorways of taverns, still occasionally seen in this country. In its present form the abacus consists of a square frame tra- versed by nine stiff* wires, on each of which nine beads or counters are strung, as shewn in the Engr.; in which the left- hand balls repre- sent the number 131,231,431. Sometimes only four balls are strung on each line, and a small ball is suspended betw^een the lines, when required, which adds 5 to the line next below it. The abacus is one of the simplest and most useful instruments of palpable arithmetic; and it is particularly well adapted to convey correct ideas of numbers and numerical operations to the young. Sir John Bowring, in his evidence given before the Committee on ‘^Decimal Coinage,” produced an abacus by which arithmetic is taught in the schools of China ; and stated, that “a Chinese youth, after a month’s instruction, is far more competent to apply all the rules of arithmetic to the business of life, than a learner on our j)lans of instruc- tion is after the t^ching of years.” Its general use in our elementary schools was suggested to the committee. Abacus. In medicine, a table used for pre- parations.f ABATTOIR'(ab-at-wor'). [Fr.] A slaughter- house ; appr., a public slaughter-house for cattle, outside the walls of a city or town. Abattoirs appear peculiarly French. Paris has several wdiich are complete as to the accom- modations they afford, and of considerable ex- tent and architectural beauty. That of Mont- martre may be particularly mentioned. Al-