766 INFUSION. root (bruised), Ih.; boiling water, q. s. to cover it j infuse with occasional agitation for 2 hours, express the liquor, wash the marc with a little boiling water, and evaporate to 13 quarts; when cold, strain through flannel, add of rectified spirit, 1 gall., and pour the mixed fluids on dried orange peel, 4| lb., and fresh lemon peel, 9 lb.; macerate for 1 week, then express the liquor in a powerful press, and Alter through paper. b. Gentian and dried orange peel, of each, 4a l^'f fresh lemon peel, 9 lb.; cold distilled water, 13 quarts; rectified spirit, 1 gall.; ma- cerate for 14 or 15 days, with frequent agita- tion, then express the liquid, add 1 dr. each of the essential oils of lemon and orange, agitate well, and Alter through paper. e. Gentian, li lb.; essence of lemon, 1 dr.; essence of orange, \ dr.; essence of cedrat, 15 drops; rectified spirit, 1 quart; cold water, 3 quarts j digest for 10 days and filter. Obs. The above formula are actually em- ployed at the present time by houses who do largely in concentrated infusion of gentian, and, with proper management, the products possess the brilliancy of brandy, are powerfully bitter, odorous, and aromatic, and keep well; 1 fl. dr., added to 7 fl. dr. of water, produces 1 fl. oz. of liquid possessing all the qualities of the INFUSION of the Ph. L. in perfection. The sale of the above preparations is astonishingly large. 4. (With EHUBABBj InFUSUM OENTIAN^ ET EHEi, Mistuea stomachica, L.) From gentian and rhubarb (bruised), of each, 2 dr.; boiling water, 1 pint; digest 1 hour, and strain; to the cold infusion add of sesquicarbonate of ammonia, 1 dr. An admirable medicine in dyspepsia, hysteria, loss of appetite, constipa- tion, chronic rheumatism, &c. Infusion of Gin'ger. Syn. Gingee tea ; In- FUSUM ZINGIBEEIS, L. From the best un- bleached Jamaica ginger, freshly bruised or grated. In flatulence, colic, and indigestion. Infusion of Gin'seng. Syn, Ginseng tea ; Infusum ginseng, I. EAUICIS G., L. Prep. Ginseng (the root of Panax Schinseng), ^ oz.; ginger (grated), 1 dr.; boiling water, 1 pint; macerate 1 hour, then add oicinnamon (bruised), ^ dr.; infuse for another hour, and strain. ‘ Ginseng tea,* made according to the above formula, has a wonderful reputation in China, as a stimulant, restorative, and aphrodisiac. In Europe, however, it is merely regarded as an aromatic demulcent. Obs. American ginseng (the root of Panax quinquefolium) may be substituted for the Asiatic product. Infusion of Gold'thread. Syn. Infusum COPTis, L. From the root of Copiis trifolia. Bitter, stomachic; in dyspepsia, and as a mouth-wash in thrush. Infusion of Gua^co. Syn. Infusum guaco, L. From the bruised leaves and stems of guaco or huaco {Mikania Guaco), Sudorific and vul- nerary; reputed in South America to be a powerful remedy for the bites of venomous serpents and for hydrophobia, but the trials in this country do not show it to be of any value in such cases. Infusion of Guaiac'um. Syn. Compound INFUSION OF GUAIACUM, I. OF THE WOODS; Infusum guaiaci compositum. Aqua bene- DiCTA composita, L. Prep. (Ph. D. 1826.) Guaiacum shavings, 6 oz.; bruised liquorice root, 1 oz.; sassafras bark, ^ oz.; coriander seeds, 3 dr.; lime water, 96 fl. oz. (say 5 pints); infuse for 2 days, and strain. Dose. 3 to 4 fl. oz., twice or thrice a day, in scrofula, rheu- matism, gout, eruptions, &c. Infusion of Gum. Syn. Infusum acacia, L. From gum acacia and lump sugar, of each, 2 oz.; boiling water, 1 pint; macerate until dissolved, then cool, and add of orange-fiower water, ^ fl. oz. A pleasant demulcent in coughs, hoarse- ness, &c. Infusion of Hedge Hys'sop. Syn. Infusum GEATiOL^, L. Prep. (A. T. Thomson.) Hedge hyssop {Gratiola officinalis), dried, 2 dr.; boil- ing water, 8 fl. oz. Cathartic, diuretic, emetic, and vermifuge. Dose. 3 to 6 fl. dr.; in drop- sies, gout, jaundice, &c. See Exteact. Infusion of Hem'lock. Syn. Infusum conii, I. CONII maculati, L. Prep. (Guy’s Hosp.) Dried leaves of hemlock, and coriander seeds, of each, 2 dr.; boiling water, 8 oz.; infuse for 2 hours. Combined with acetate of ammonia, tincture of henbane, and syrup of poppies, in pulmonary complaints, &c. Infusion of Hen'bane. Syn. Infusum ht- OSCYAMI, L. Prep. 1. From fresh leaves, ^ oz.; boiling water, 1 pint. As a lotion for painful ulcers, swelled face, &c. 2. (Compound; Henbane fomentation; Infusum hyosctami compositum, L.—Ra- dius.) Henbane leaves, poppy heads, and mol- •' lows, of each, 1 oz.; boiling water, 2 quarts. > For painful ulcers, and in facial neuralgia, &c. Infusion of Hops: Syn. Hop tea ; Infusum HUMULI, I. LUPULI (Ph. L.), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Hops, 6 dr.; boiling distilled water, 1 pint; macerate for 4 hours in a covered vessel (press), and strain. Tonic and anodyne. Well-hopped mild ale is a good substitute. Infusion of Hore'hound. Syn. Hoeehound tea; Infusum maeeubii, L. From the leaves; demulcent, pectoral; a popular re- medy in coughs, colds, hoarseness, and chest affections generally, taken freely. Infusion of Horse-rad'ish. Syn. Infusum AEMOEACi.®, L. 1. From horse-radish alone. Diuretic and stomachic. 2. (Compound; Infusum aemoeaci^ com- positum, L.—Ph. L.) Horse-radish (sliced) and mustard seed (bruised), of each, 1 oz.; boiling distilled water, 1 pint; macerate for 2 hours in a covered vessel, strain, and add of compound spirit of horse-radish, 1 fl. oz. Stimulant, stomachic, and diuretic; in dropsies, paralysis, i scurvy, chronic rheumatism, &c. Infosion of Hys'sop. Syn. Hyssop tea; In- it FUSUM HYSSOPI, L. 1. From the leaves of Hys-