ATMOSPHERE. 242 of mankind in the earliest ages of the world. Anaximenes, of Miletus, declared air (atmo- spheric air) to be a self-existent deity, and the great first cause of all created things (b.c. 530). It is one of the four elements of the ancient philosophers; the others being earth, fire, and water. Posidonius calculated the height of the atmosphere at 800 stadia (about B.C. 79). Its weight and pressure were dis- covered by Galileo and Torricelli (a.d. 1630- 1645). Pascal foiind its density to be in- fluenced by elevation (a.d. 1647). physical properties were investigated by Boyle (a.d. 1672, &c.). The laws of its refraction were studied by Dr. Bradley (1737). Its relations to light, heat, and sound, and its physical in- fluence and properties were determined and illustrated by Hooke, Newton, Derham, Halley, and others. The chemical composition of the atmosphere was not, however, clearly ascertained until after the middle of the 18th century. The researches of Hales and Black in this direction led the way to the dis- coveries of Priestly and Cavendish, which were soon afterwards confirmed by those of other chemists. The subject, in all its details, has since engaged the attention of many of the leading chemists and physicists in all parts of the world. Comp., chem. prop., pur., uses, 8fc. See Aie (Atmospheric). Mechanical properties of the atmosphere :— CoLOTJE :—The prevailing colour of the at- mosphere is blue; at considerable elevations this blue tint is lost, and the sky appears deep black. The prevalence of blue is referred to the greater facility with which the blue and violet rays are reflected; whilst the glowing tints of morning and evening are conceived to arise from the red rays possessing greater mo- mentum than the other rays of the spectrum. Density :—The density of the atmosphere diminishes with the distance from the earth’s surface, and this in the duplicate ratio of the altitude. Thus, if at a given altitude the density of the air is only one-half what it is at the level of the sea, at twice that elevation, it possesses only one-fourth that density. On this fact depends the application of the baro- meter to the determination of the elevation or depression of any point above or below the level of the sea, taken as a standard. Density of the Atmosphere at Different Elevations. By Peof. Geaham. Height above tlie level of the sea in miles. Volume of Air. Height of the Barometer. 0* 1 30 2*705 2 15 5*41 4 7*5 8*115 8 3*75 10*82 16 1*875 13*525 32 *9375 16*23 64 *46875 Height, &c. :—If the density of the air were uniform throughout its whole extent, the height of the atmosphere, measured by a cor- responding column of mercury, would be barely 5i miles. As, however, its density decreases with the distance from the earth’s surface, its real height must be considerably greater. Kepler found that the reflection and refraction of the sun’s rays by the atmosphere, producing twilight, ceases when that luminary descends 18 degrees below the horizon j whence it is calculated that the atmosphere cannot have a greater altitude than 45 miles. On the other hand, there is reason to believe that it cannot be much less than this sum. “ With a good air-pump air may be rarefied 300 times; sup- posing this to be the utmost limit to w'hich rarefaction can be carried, the atmosphere wmuld still extend to an altitude of above 40 miles.” Whether, in a state of extreme tenuity in which its grosser properties are lost, it ex- tends indefinitely into space, was formerly a j subject of controversy. That its boundaries are limited, and that it belongs exclusively to ' our earth, appears almost certain. “ We are 1 warranted in concluding that the atoms of air t are not infinitely divisible, and consequently, that the atmosphere has a limit; and the limit I must be situated at that height above the 1 earth, w^here the gravitation of the atoms is just equal to the force of their repulsion.”^ ; Under ordinary circumstances the mercury of f the barometer falls about one inch for every | 1000 feet of elevation. | Peesshee :—The weight or pressure of the | atmosphere is shown by the rise of w^ater in the barrel of the common ‘ lifting pump,’ and j the suspension of the mercurial column in the , tube of the barometer. The last affords a . ready means of determining the actual pres- ■ sure of the air \ the column of mercury, and ) the column of air by which it is suspended, 1 resembling two weights in equilibrio, at the i opposite extremities of the same balance. . The mean height of the barometer at the level ! of the sea, in England, is 28'6 inches (= about i 33^ feet of water) ; and as a cubic inch of mercury weighs 3425’92 gr. or *48956 lb., \ it follows that the weight of a column of mer- i cury whose base is a square inch, is 14*6 Ih. \ avoirdupois. The pressure of the atmosphere ^ is not merely downw*ards, but is equally dif- fused in all directions, and exerts a most pow*erful effect in the economy of organic ; beings. On the surface of the body of an adult I of ordinary size (say = 15 sq. feet, or 2160 i inches), it amounts to the enormous weight of i 31,536 lb., which is not sensible, only because j it is balanced by the force of the elastic fluids in the interior of the body. Were this equi- j librium to be suddenly destroyed, the conse-1 quence would be, either that the body would be instantly torn to pieces with explosive vio-1 lence, or that it would be crushed under the I overwhelming weight that would suddenly 1 Brande’s “Diet, of Lit., Sci., ^ Art.”