OILS (FIXED). 953 I * filtering powder^ (1 to 2 lb, per gall.), with I agitation for some time, and, lastly, to filter i them in the usual manner through an oil-bag. \ In this way the West-end perfumers prepare 1 their 'white almond oil’ (oleum amyg- dalae album), and their ‘white olive I oil’ (oleum OLIVAS album). Formerly, I freshly burnt animal charcoal was used for this I purpose, and is still so employed by some . houses. I 5. Mr. Bancroft refines oils eor machi- I NERY AND LUBRICATING PURPOSES generally, j by agitating them with a lye of caustic soda ' of the sp. gr. 1-2. A sufficient quantity is , known to have been added when, after repose, • a portion begins to settle down clear at the I bottom. About 4g to 8g is commonly'required I for lard oil and olive oil. After 24 hours’ re- I pose, the clear supernatant oil is decanted from , the soapy sediment, and filtered. ’ I 6. Not only the oils above referred to, but j all other oils and fats may be rendered per- i fectly colourless by the use of a little chromic , acid ; or, what is the same, by a mixture of a I solution of bichromate of polassa and suflS.cient sulphuric, hydrochloric, or nitric acid, to seize I on all the alkali, and thus liberate the chromic i acid. : 7. Palm oil and cocoa-nut oil are gene- I rally refined and bleached by either chromic I acid or chlorine, or by heat:— I a. The ‘ butyraceous oil ’ is liquefied by heat : in a wooden vessel, and to 9g of good chlo- ! ride of lime, previously made into a smooth cream with water, is added, and the whole assiduously stirred until the ingredients appear I united; the mixture is then allowed to cool, i and is next cut up into small lumps, which are I exposed to a free current of air for 2, 3, or j even 4 weeks; these are melted in a wooden j vessel heated by high-pressure steam circulating through leaden pipes, or in a cast-iron boiler lined with lead, and an equal weight of oil of vitriol (diluted with about 20 times its weight I of water) is poured in, and the whole gently I boiled until the oil is decoloured and runs clear j the 'fire is then moderated, and the I whole allowed to settle; lastly, the fire is i removed, and the oil is left to cool very slowly. ! b. The process with chromic acid has been I already noticed, but is more fully explained , below. I c. The oil, heated to the temperature of j about 250° Fahr., is exposed to the action of \high-pressure steam, which is continuously blown’ through it for 10 or 12 hours, or even longer. The process is greatly facili- 'tated by the introduction of some chromic \ acid. 8. Mr. Watt’s methods of purifying fats land oils are very effective, more especially for those intended for illumination. They are as follows:— a. (For FISH oils.) Each ton is boiled for an hour with caustic soda, ^ lb., previously I made into a weak lye with water; or steam is blown through the mixture for a like pe- riod ; oil of vitriol, \ lb., diluted with 6 times its weight of water, is next added, the whole again boiled for 15 minutes, and allowed to settle for an hour or longer, when the clear oil is rrin off from the water and sediment into the bleaching tubs; here solution of bi- chromate of potash, 4 lb., in oil of vitriol, 2 lb., previously diluted with water, q. s., together with a little nitric acid and some oxalic acid, are added, and after thorough admixture of the whole, by blowing steam through it, strong nitric acid, 1 lb., diluted with water, 1 quart, is poured in, and the boiling continued for ^ an hour longer; a small quantity of naphtha of rectified spirit of turpentine is then mixed in, and the oil is, finally, well washed with hot water, and left to settle. b. (For'PALM oil.) The oil is melted by the heat of steam, and, after it has settled and cooled down to about 130° Fuhr., is carefully decanted from the water and sediment into the steaming tubs ; here a mixture of a satu- rated solution of bichromate of potash, 25 lb., aind oil of vitriol, 8 or 9 lb., is added, and after thorough admixture, hydrochloric acid, 50 lb., is poured in; the whole is then constantly stirred until it acquires^ a uniform greenish colour, or is sufiiciently decoloured, a little more of the bleaching materials being added if the latter is not the case, after which it is allowed to repose for half an hour to settle; it is next run into a wooden vat, where it is washed, &c., as before. c. (For VEGETABLE OILS.) These are treated with a solution of chromic acid, or with a solution of bichromate of potassa, or some mineral acid, as noticed at (6). For colza, LINSEED, MUSTARD, NUT, and RAPE OIL, a little hydrochloric acid is added; but for ALMOND, CASTOR, OLIVE OIL, and POPPY OIL, no such addition (at least in excess) is re- quired. 9. Rancid oils and pats are recovered by boiling them for about 15 minutes with a little water and calcined magnesia ; or, by filtering them through freshly burnt charcoal. In reference to the above processes, it may be useful to remark, that chlorine, the com- mon bleacher and deodorizer of other sub- stances, cannot be well employed directly in the purification of oils, as certain chemical re- actions occur when these substances are brought together, which increase the colour instead of removing it, and are often otherwise injurious. The same remarks apply to the use of the ‘chlorides* which frequently fails in unskilful hands, and is, indeed, of questionable utility, except, perhaps, in the case of palm oil. Even charcoal exerts little of its usual energy on the oils, and whilst it removes or lessens their offensive odour, sometimes increases their co- lour. The.addition of 1§ or 2g of very pure and recently rectified naphtha or oil of turpen- tine (camphine) to lamp oil is a real improve-