393 CAPERS—CAPRYLIC ALCOHOL. cine dissolves gums and resins, especially copal and India rubber, at the common temperature of the atmosphere, and it speedily evaporates, leaving them again in the solid state. It mixes with the oils in all proportions. It has been used in the manufacture of varnishes, and for liquefying oil paints, instead of tur- pentine. It is very volatile, and requires to be kept in close vessels. According to the researches of Himly, Gregory, and Bouchardat, the caoutchoucine of Barnard consists of seve- ral liquids, some of which have the compo- sition of olefiant gas, and others that of oil of turpentine. CA"PERS. The flower buds of various species of Capparis, particularly C. spinosa, caper tree, preserved in vinegar. They are chiefly imported from Spain, Italy, and the South of France, where the caper tree is largely cultivated for the purpose. The flower-buds are picked daily, and thrown into a cask of strong pickling vinegar, until it becomes full, when it is sold to the dealers by the collector. The former sort them into dif- ferent sizes by means of copper sieves, in a similar way to that adopted for lead shot and gunpowder. In this way they are divided into nonpareilles, capuchins, capotes, seconds, and thirds, of which the former, or smallest, are regarded as the best j but much depends upon the quality of the vinegar. The lively green colour of capers, so much valued by the ignorant, arises chiefly from the presence of copper derived from the sieves used in sorting them. In many cases, copper coin, as sous and halfpence, are added for the purpose. Thus the eye is gratified at the sacrifice of the stomach, and an insidious poi- son introduced into the system, simply to give an unnatural appearance to a condiment which 1 tastes better without it. See Coppee. i CAPILLAIRE'. [Fr.] Simple syrup, or a concentrated solution of sugar in water, fla- voured with orange-flower water, or some other similar aromatic. The name was origi- nally given to a mucilaginous syrup, prepared by adding to an infusion of maiden-hair {Adian- tum capillus Veneris) some sugar and orange- flower water. CAP'ROMOR. See Kapnomoe. CAP'RIC ACID. Syn. Ru'tic acid ; Acidum Cap'eicum, L. An acid discovered by Chev- reul, and obtained by decomposing caprate of baryta, with dilute sulphuric acid, or primarily by the saponification of butter or cocoa-nut oil, when it appears combined with butyric, caproic, and caprylic acids. It is also procured by acting upon oleic acid or oil of rue with nitric acid. Obs. When butter is saponified with caustic potassa or soda, and the resulting soap decom- posed by adding an acid, in excess, and dis- tilling the mixture, the four acids above named pass over into the receiver, in combi- nation with water. The mixed acids may be separated by saturating them collectively with baryta, and by taking advantage of the unequal solubility of the newly-formed baryta salts. The less soluble portion (equal to about gjjth of the dry mass) contains capric and ca- prylic acid; the larger and more soluble portion, butyric and caproic acid. On the same plan, the two groups are resolved into their separate acids. These acids are deprived of their uncombined water by means of chloride of calcium. It is advisable to employ the term rutic acid, as the older term is easily confounded with caproic and caprylic. Prop. Capric or rutic acid crystallizes in fine needles, which fuse at 86° Fahr., giving out an odour resembling that of a goat. It is sparingly soluble in boiling water. CAPROTC ACID. An oily acid, discovered by Chevreul, and obtained by decomposing caproate of baryta with dilute sulphuric acid. It may also be prepared by boiling cyanide of amyl with alcoholic solution of potassa, when caproate of jjotassa is formed. Prop. Caproic acid is a colourless liquid, much less soluble than butyric acid; and smells less goaty than capric acid. It boils at 388° Fahr. Sp. gr. -930. See Capeic Acid {above). CAPRO'IC ALCOHOL. Syn. HexylTc al- cohol. The hydrated oxide of capeoyle (which see). It is obtained, along with pro- pylic, butylic, and amylic alcohols, from the fermented mark of the grape, and is separated by fractional distillation. Prop. It is a colourless, aromatic liquid, boiling at 302° Fahr. Sp. gr. *832. Heated with hydrate of potassa, caproate of potassa is formed, in the same manner that acetate of potassa is formed when vinic alcohol is heated with hydrate of potassa. CAPRO'IC ETHER. The caproate of ethyle prepared by distilling caproate of baryta, alcohol, and sulphuric acid together. Prop. A limpid, oily fluid, boiling at 324° Fahr., and possessing a fruity odour, like that of pine- apple. CAP'ROYLE. Syn. Hex'yle. The radicle of caproic alcohol. It is obtained by the electrolysis of oenanthylate of potassa as a fragrant oil boiling at 397° Fahr. Capeyle or octyle is another radicle, the properties of which have not yet been thoroughly investi- gated. CAPRYLIC ACID. One of the acids oh- tained by Chevreul during the saponification of butler. See Capeic Acid {above). It is best prepared by decomposing caprylate of baryta with dilute sulphuric or phos])horic acid. Prop. An oily, colourless liquid, insoluble in water, but soluble in alcoliol and ether, with a disagreeable sudoriferous odour. It becomes solid at 50° Fahr., and boils at 457° Fahr. CAPRYL'IC ALCOHOL. Syn. Octyl'ic al- cohol. The hydrated oxide of the radicle CAPEYLE. It occurs ill small quantities in the fermented mark of the grape; but its most available source is castor oil.