ALNIGHT—ALOES. 114 fection, &c., and to suspend oily substances in water. Their uses for dietetical purposes are well known. Preparations of them are also employed as cosmetics. The cake left after expressing the oil (almond-cake), is used for washing the skin; which it is said to render beautifully soft and clear. See Almond paste, &c. AL'NIG-HTf (awl'-). A cake of wax with a wick in the midst. The forerunner of, and a rude form of the modern ‘ dumpy night-lights ’ called MORTAES. AL'OE (al'-o). Syn. Al'oe (-o-e), L., Fr. (or aloes), Ger., Ital., Sp., Belg., Dan., Dut., Swed. The aloe-tree. In botany, a genus of plants of the nat. ord., Liliaceae (DC.). The species, of which there are several, are succulent plants or small trees with endogenous stems, and stiff, fleshy, hard, pointed leaves, abounding in a purgative principle (aloes), which is obtained from them by either evaporating the expressed juice or the decoction. They are all natives of warm climates, and most of them are indigenous to southern Africa. Hist. aehleem, (aloe-trees,) were known to the sacred historians; and both the plant and the inspissated juice are described by Dioscorides^ and Pliny Uses, 8fc. In Africa, the leaves of the Guinea aloe are made into ropes, fishing-lines, bow- strings, stockings, hammocks, &c. The leaves of another species are used to catch and hold rain- water. The expressed juice and decoction are also used by the natives as a dyestuff. (Vide infra.) Eecent comparative trials, made in Paris, of the strength of cordage and cables formed of hemp, and of the aloe from Algiers, are said to have shown the great superiority of the latter. Fabroni obtained a fine violet- colour from the recent juice of the aloe, which has been proposed as a dye for silk.^ Amer'ican Aloe. The aga've America'na (Linn.), is a plant unconnected with the pre- ceding, and belonging to the nat. ord., Brome- liacese. It is found in all parts of tropical America, and is largely cultivated on the shores of the Mediterranean; and less frequently, as an exotic plant in this country. It grows to the height of about 20 feet, and takes many, years to produce its gigantic and magnificent pyramid of flowers; shortly after which it perishes, exhausted, as it were, by its efforts in bestowing its rare beauty on the floral world. The vulgar belief is, that it blossoms only once in a century ; but, as stated by the late Mr. Loudon, it flowers sooner or later, according to the culture bestowed on it. Its sap yields a kind of honey (a&a've honey), and by fermen- tation, an intoxicating liquor (ptjlqxje) ; de- siccated juice, mixed with wood ashes, is used as soap, and lathers either with sea or fresh water; leaf-fibre, used as hemp to make thread and twine. • Lib. iii, c. xxv. 2 “Hist. Nat.," lib. xxvii, c. v. 3 “ Aiinales de Chiinie,” xxv, 305. AL'OE-KESIil. Syn. Kesi'na Al'oes, L. The resinous matter deposited by a decoction of aloes as it cools. Prep. (Ph. L. 1746.) Boil aloes, 1 part, in water, 8 parts, and allow the decoction, strained whilst hot, to repose until the next day; then wash the deposited eesin, and dry it by a gentle heat. It is probably a mixture of aloine and oxidised extractive. AL'OES (-oze). Sxjn, Bitt'ee AloesAl'oe (-o-e), L.; Aloes, Sue d'Aloes, Fr.; Aloe, Glausinde Aloe, Ger."^ The inspissated juice or extract of several species of aloe. Comp., prep., ^c. Aloes is a complex sub- stance consisting chiefly of resin, extractive, vegetable albumen, aloesine or aloine, and aloesic acid. It is completely soluble in boiling water, and partly so in alcohol or rectified spirit. The decoction deposits an impure resin or resinoid on cooling. Phys. eff.. Uses, ^c. Aloes is a warm stimu- lating purgative, in doses of 3 to 10 gr.; whilst even 1 or 2 gr. seldom fail to produce one motion without pain or inconvenience. It is considered highly serviceable in hypochondri- acal, hysterical, and dyspeptic affections, par- ticularly in phlegmatic habits, and in cases arising from deficiency of bile. As an emmena- gogue, and a vermifuge, few medicines are more valuable. It acts on the large intestines, and principally on the rectum; and, there- fore, should be administered with caution, or only in small doses, where there is a tendency to prolapsus or piles, and in cases where uterine stimulants (as in pregnancy, &c.) would be improper. “ If any medicine be entitled to the character of a stomach purge, it is certainly aloes. It is remarkable with regard to it, that it operates almost to as good a purpose in a small, as in a large dose; and one or two grains will produce one considerable dejection, and twenty grains will do no more, except it be that in the last dose (case), the operation will be at- tended with griping, &c. Its chief use is to render the peristaltic motion regular, and it is one of the very best cures for habitual costive- ness.” (Cullen.) The objections raised to aloes by Fallopius, Wedekind, Fothergill, Greenhow, and others, do not appear to be borne out by general experience. Many of the effects com- plained of arise from its slow solubility in the primsB vise, and may be obviated by administer- ing it in a liquid form, or in a solid form combined with soap, which renders it freely soluble in the juices of the stomach. Aloes is more frequently taken than, perhaps, any known purgative. It enters into the com- position of a majority of the aperient medicines prescribed by the faculty, and forms the princi- pal ingredient of nearly all the advertised piirgative, antibilious, and universal pills of the nostrum-mongers. The fact of aloetic pills not acting until about 8 to 10 hours after being swallowed—so that if taken on retiring to rest at night, they do not generally disturb the •* Also see Alok (above;.