786 IODINE. (Ph. L.) “39 gr. of iodine, with 9 gr. of quicklime, and 3 fl. oz. of water, when heated short of ebullition, slowly form a perfect solu- tion (iodate of lime and iodide of calcium), which is yellowish or brownish, if the iodine be pure, but colourless if it contains more than 2g of water or of other impurity.” (Ph. E. & L.) The iodine of commerce is usually that of the first sublimation, and generally contains from 12§ to 20§ of water. Some of the foreign iodine, prepared by precipitation with chlorine, without subsequent sublimation, even contains l-4th part of water, and has a dead leaden- gray colour, and evolves a sensible odour of chlorine. Coal, plumbago, oxide of manga- nese, crude antimony, and charcoal, are also frequently mixed with iodine to increase its weight. Water may be detected by the loss of weight it suffers when exposed to strong pressure between bibulous paper; or more accurately by drying it in the manner directed below,—chlorine may be detected by the odour ; and the other substances mentioned above, by their insolubility in rectified spirit and in a solution of iodide of potassium. Before use as a medicine, “ it must be dried by being placed in a shallow basin of earthenware, in a small confined space of air, with 10 or 12 times its weight of fresh-burnt lime, till it scarcely adheres to the side of a dry bottle.” (Ph. E.) The Dublin College orders pure iodine (lODi- NIUM PUEUM, Ph. D.) to be prepared from commercial iodine as followsPlace it in a deep circular porcelain capsule, and having covered it accurately with a glass matrass filled with cold water, apply a water heat to the capsule for 20 minutes, and ‘then allow the whole to cool; should the sublimate attached to the bottom of the matrass include acicu- lar prisms of a white colour, and a pungent odour, it m.ust be scraped off with a glass rod, and rejected ; the apparatus is then to be again exposed to a gentle and steady heat until the whole of the iodine has sublimed; the subli- mate is, lastly, to be collected from the bottom of tbe matrass, and at once enclosed in a stop- nered bottle. Tests. Free iodine may be recognised by the violet colour of its vapour, by its imparting a violet colour to bisulphate of carbon, and by its striking a blue colour with starch. The latter test is so delicate, that water containing of iodine acquires a percep- tible blue tinge on the addition of starch. Free iodine may be eliminated from solutions of iodides by chlorine, nitric acid, concentrated sulphuric acid, and peroxide of manganese, and may be made evident by adding starch- paste. “ This reagent serves to detect mi- nute traces of iodine in insoluble as well as in soluble compounds of that element. The sub- stance under examination is mixed in a retort with concentrated nitric acid, and a strip of white cotton cloth moistened with a solution of starch suspended from the stopper; in a few hours the cloth will become coloured blue if the most minute trace of iodine be present.” (Noad.) “By mixing the liquid containing the iodine with the starch and acid, and lightly pouring thereon a small quantity of aqueous chlorine, a very visible blue zone will be de- veloped at the line of contact, even in very dilute solutions.” (Balard.) Chatin and Gaul- tier de Claubry prefer the starch test to all others; and for the liberation of the iodine, either nitric acid or a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acid. Oberbeck treats a little starch or sugar with nitric acid in a test tube, apply- ing beat until a vigorous disengagement of gas (nitrous acid) commences, which is then passed into the liquid under examination, pre- viously mixed with a little starch-paste. If only l-l,000,000th grain of iodine or iodide of potassium is present, a blue colour is imme- diately developed. Solutions containing iodates yield, with nitrate of silver, a white precipitate, soluble in ammonia and nitric acid; the iodides, under the same circumstances, give a pale yel- lowish precipitate with nitrate of bWxqv, scarcely soluble in ammonia, and insoluble in dilute nitric acid; a bright yellow one with acetate of lead; and a scarlet one with bichloride of mercury. In solutions of alkaline iodides chloride of palladium produces a black preci- pitate. The iodates may be tested as iodides, by first heating them to redness, by which they lose their oxygen, and are converted into iodides. Estim. The proportion of eree iodine in a mixture may be estimated .—1. By separat- ing it by volatilizing it by heat, and collecting and weighing the sublimate.—2. By solution in rectified spirit, adding water, and collecting the resulting precipitate, which must then be dried and weighed.—3. By solution in a solu- tion of iodide of potassium, and then adding a standard solution of hyposulphite of soda, until the whole of the free iodine is taken up, and the mixture no longer strikes a blue colour with starch. 24'8 gr. of the hyposulphite are necessary to absorb 12‘7 gr. of free iodine.' —4. By comparing the tint of a solution pre- pared by chloroform with that of a standard solution containing a known quantity of iodine, as in Crum’s process for estimating chlo- rine.^ According to M. Rabourdin, chloroform is superior to all other substances for quantita- tively determining iodine in organic mixtures. If 10 grammes of any liquid containing of its weight of iodine be treated with 2 drops of nitric acid, 15 or 20 of sulphuric acid, and 1 gramme of chloroform, and agitated, it as- sumes a distinct violet colour. M. Rabourdin judges of the quantity of iodine present by the tint of violet which the chloroform thus treated assumes. 1 For details of this and other methods of accurately determining the per-centage of iodine, free or conibined, the reader is referred to button’s “ Systematic Handbook of Volumetric Analysis." * See page 436.