484 COPPERAS—CORN. and an emetic (3 or 4 gr. to 10 or 12 gr.). It is exceedingly poisonous. COP'PERAS;!:. This is a geneidc name for the CEUDE METALLIC SULPHATES. When used without a qualifying adjective, it gene- rally means sulphate of iron. Blue Copperas. Crude sulphate of copper. See COPPEE {above). Calcined' Copperas. From green copperas, heated in an unglazed earthen pot until it becomes white and dry. Used as an astrin- gent and ‘ drier/ and in making ink and dyeing. Green Copperas. Syn. Coppeeas. Crude sulphate of iron. See Ieon. White Copperas. Crude sulphate of zinc. See Zinc. COP'PEEING. Iron may be covered with a thin film of copper by merely immersing it (previously scoured clean) in an acidulated solution of sulphate of copper, after which it must be rinsed in clean water. This film soon rubs off, but still it lasts long enough to deceive the travelling tinker’s customers, who imagine that their copper kettles are properly repaired. Metals may be conveniently coated with compact copper to any desired thickness by means of voltaic electricity. See Elec- TEOTTPE. COP'ROLITE. Syn. Dung'stone, Fossil MANUEE. This mineral is the petrified dung of, carnivorous reptiles. (Buckland.) Cop- rolites are found in all the secondary and tertiary strata. They contain a considerable proportion of phosphate of lime, for which reason they are largely employed in the manu- facture of artificial manures. They form the bases of Lawes’ supeephosphate or copeo- LiTE MANUEE. The nodules, after being washed, are ground to powder in a mill, and mixed with an equal weight of oil of vitriol. COR'AL. Syn. Coeal'lium, L. The com- prehensive term for all calcareous or stony structures secreted by the marine ‘asteroid polypes,’ or ‘zoophytes.’ The eed coeal of commerce, which is so largely employed for heads, ear-rings, and other ornaments, may be described as the internal skeleton of Corallium rubrum. Prepared' Eed Coral. Syn. Coeal'lium eu'- beu'm peepaea'tum. Levigated coral was formerly used in medicine as an antacid or absorbent, and is still occasionally employed as a dentifrice. It consists almost entirely of carbonate of lime, coloured with red oxide of iron, and possesses no advantage over good chalk. It is prepared in a similar manner as chalk. Eed Coral (Facti"tious). Syn. Coeal'lium EU'BEUM pacti"tium, L. Prepared chalk, coloured with a little sesquiovide of iron or rose pink, and passed through a sieve. Sold by the druggists for powdered coral. COED'IALS. Syn. Caedi'aca, L. Warm, stimulating, restorative medicines, that tend to raise the spirits and promote the circula- tion. The principal cordial medicines are noticed under the heads Tinctuee and Steup. See also Patent Medicines. Cordials. Aromatized and sweetened spirits used as beverages. See Liqueue. COEIAN'DEE. Syn. Coeiandees, C. seed ; CoEiANDEUM (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “The fruit {seed) of the Coriandrum sativum.” (Ph. L.) Coriander is chiefly used by confectioners and distillers as a flavouring ingredient. In the East it is much employed as a condiment, being an ingredient in cueey powdee. It is aromatic, carminative, and stimulant; and more effectually covers the taste of senna than any other substance. Dose. 20 to 60 gr.; chiefly as a corrective or adjuvant in compound medicines. COEK. The outer bark of the Quercus Suber or cork oak, a tree common in southern France, Italy, and Spain. The bark obtained from the younger branches of the same tree is em- ployed for tanning. See Alcoenoco. Cork. A stopple or plug for a bottle or jar cut from the above substance. The common practice of employing inferior corks for the purpose of stopping the mouths of bottles, is often productive of considerable loss, from the air being only partially excluded, and the contents suffering in consequence. Many a large bin of valuable wine has become, from this cause, in less than a year, little better than sour ‘ Cape.’ Chemical preparations often suffer from a similar cause. The best corks are those called ‘velvet corks,’ and of these the finest qualities are imported from France. No pains should be spared to obtain sound and soft corks for connecting the com- bustion- and drying-tubes used in organic analysis. Several attempts have been made to in- troduce cork-cutting by machinery, but they have hitherto failed to supersede hand labour. Cork-bo"rer. A thin brass tube, filed to a cutting edge, used for piercing holes through corks. Several tubes of different sizes, which fit into each other, are generally sold together. This simple and convenient instrument was introduced into the laboratory by Dr. Mohr. COEN. Syn. Cla'yus, L. A horny indu- ration of the skin, with a central nucleus, very sensitive at the base. The common cause of corns is continued pressure over the pro- jection of the bones, from tight or stiff boots or shoes. They are of two kinds, hard and soft. The first grow on the exposed portions of the joints; the last, between the toes. Preven. 'This consists in keeping the feet clean, by frequent ablution with warm water, and in the use of easy, soft boots and shoes. Without the latter precaution, corns will generally return, even after they appear to have been perfectly removed. Treatrn. After soaking the feet in warm water for a few minutes, pare the corns as close as possible with a sharp knife, taking care not to make them bleed. They may now