BRASS. 351 an alloy of copper and tin, corresponding to that we now call bronze. The substitution of zinc for ‘ tin ’ did not commence earlier than about 50 B.C., and does not appear to have become general until several centuries later. Prep. Brass is now generally manufactured by plunging copper, in slips, into zinc melted in the usual manner. The former metal rapidly combines with the fluid mass, and the addition is continued until an alloy somewhat difficult of fusion is formed, when the re- mainder of the copper is at once added. The BRASS thus obtained is broken into pieces, and remelted under charcoal, and a proper addition of either zinc or copper made, to bring it up to the colour and quality desired. It is next poured into moulds of granite. Before being submitted to the rolling-press for reduction to thin plates, it undergoes the operation of annealing. The proportions of the metals forming this alloy are varied according to the desired colour, and the purposes to which it is to be applied. The following formulae are founded chiefly on analysis of standard brasses and yellow metals, made expressly for this work. Small fractions are omitted; the nearest whole numbers being generally taken.— a. Fine Brass :—1. Copper, 2 parts; zinc, 1 part; either combined as explained above, or the two metals separately melted, suddenly poured together, and united by vigorous stirring. 2. Copper, 7 parts; zinc, 3 parts. Bright yellow; malleable. 3. Fine copper, 4 parts ; zinc, 1 part. Deeper coloured than the last; an excellent and very useful alloy. b. Malleable Brass :—1. Copper, 33 parts; zinc, 25 parts; as before. 2. Copper, 3 parts; zinc, 2 parts. These alloys are malleable whilst hot. c. Red Brass. This name is commonly applied to all those alloys which do not contain more than 18 to 20g of zinc. In the deeper- coloured foreign varieties (red tom'bac) the per-centage of copper occasionally amounts to 88, 90, or even 92^. d. Yelloav Brass. See Fine Brass, {above). e. Button-brass :—1. Copper, 8 parts; zinc, 5 parts. This is the ‘ platin ^ of the Birmingham makers. 2. Yellow brass, 16 parts; zinc, 2 parts; tin, 1 part. Paler than the last. 3. Copper, 25 parts ; zinc, 20 parts; lead, 3 parts; tin, 2, parts. IPale; used for common buttons. f. For FINE CASTINGS :—1. As fine brass, laccording to the colour desired. (See above.) 2. Copper, 62 parts; zinc, 35 parts; lead, 2 parts; tin, 1 part. 3. Copper, 60 parts; zinc, 36 parts; tin, 4 parts. Both the last two are rather pale and brittle. 4. Copper, 90 parts; zinc, 7 parts; tin, 2 parts; lead, 1 part. Rich deep colour. 5. Copper, 91 parts; zinc, 5 parts; tin, 3 parts; lead, 1 part; as the last. g. For Gilding ;—1. As fine brass {above). 2. Copper, 64 parts; zinc, 32 parts; lead, 3 parts; tin, 1 part. 3. Copper, 82 parts; zinc, 18 parts; tin, 3 parts; lead, 1 part. h. For Solder :—1. Fine brass, 12 parts; zinc, 6 parts; tin, 1 part; melted together. 2. Brass, 2 parts; zinc, 1 part; as before. 3. Brass, 3 parts; zinc, 1 part. Very strong. Used for soldering tubes and other like purposes requiring great strength. The above alloys form the ‘ hard solder ’ of the braziers. For certain purposes a little silver is added to them, when the compound receives the name of ‘ silver-solder.’ i. For Turning :—1. Fine brass, 98 parts ; lead, 2 parts; melted together. 2. Copper, 61 parts; zinc, 36 parts; lead, 3 parts. 3. Copper, 65 parts; zinc, 33 parts; lead, 2 parts. j. For Wire:—1. Copper, 72 parts; zinc, 28 parts; the resulting ‘ alloy ’ being subse- quently properly annealed. 2. Copper, 64 parts; zinc, 34 parts; as before. 3. To the last add of lead, 2 parts. Anal. This may be briefly described as follows :— a. 100 gr. of the alloy is digested in nitric acid. The insoluble portion is ‘peroxide of tin,’ every 74 gr. of which, when washed and dried, contain 58 gr. of metallic tin. b. Sulphuric acid is added to the nitric solution as long as a ‘ white precipitate ’ falls; after a time the precipitate is collected on a filter, washed with a mixture of water and al- cohol, and ignited in a porcelain-crucible. Every 152 gr. of the residuum represents 104 gr. of metallic lead. c. The liquor filtered from the precipitate of ‘ sulphate of lead,’ is treated with a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen ; the ‘ precipitate ’ is collected on a filter, washed with water mixed with a little sulphuretted hydrogen, dried, and digested in pure nitric acid until the ‘ sulphur’ which separates acquires its natural full yellow-colour; the resulting solution is next diluted with water, and reprecipitated with potassa, the whole being boiled until the pre- cipitated ‘ protoxide of copper ’ becomes of a deep brown or black ; it is then collected on a filter, washed, dried, ignited in a platinum- crucible, and weighed therein immediately after it becomes cold. Every 40 gr. of ‘ pro- toxide of copper’ thus obtained, represents 32 gr. of pure copper. d. The liquid poured from the precipitate of ‘sulphuret of copper,’ is boiled for about a minute, when it is precipitated with a solution of carbonate of soda; the whole is then boiled for a few minutes, and the precipitated ‘ oxide