TH R ACOKALI—ANTI-ATTRITION. 178 tense heat, and leaves scarcely any ash; hut it is difficult to kindle, and requires a lively draught for its combustion. It is the common fuel in the United States of America, although, until recently, scarcely employed in Europe, iind that chiefly in a few iron-works and steam fui-naces. Its adoption in this country would not merely at once remove the smoke nuisance, but would produce a vast annual saving to the community. By contracting the throat of the chimney a little, and avoiding the use of the poker, it may be burnt in a common grate. The Americans use a little charcoal as ‘ kindle,’ and seldom supply fresh coal to the fire oftener than once or twice a day. The inferior varieties of anthracite are tech- nically and provincially called culm ; as is also the small and waste of the better kinds. For the analysis, geology, calorific value, Sfc., of anthracite, see Coal, Culm, Evapoeation, Fuel, Heat, &c. AN'THRACOKA'LI. [Eng., L.] Syn. An- theakoka'li, Antheak'ali; An'theaco- ka'li, Hamb. C. 1845. Prep. 1. (Polya.) Carbonate of potassa, 6 oz.; quicklime, 3^ oz.; water, 4 pints; proceed as directed for ‘liquor of potassa,’ then evaporate the clear liquid, in an iron capsule, to about 6 fl. oz., add oifinely- powdered mineral coal, 5 oz., boil, with constant stirring, to dryness, and continue the stirring at a reduced heat, until the wffiole is converted into a homogeneous black powder, which must be at once placed in small, dry, and w^ell- stoppered phials. 2. (Hamb. C. 1845; Ph. Baden. 1841.) Hydrate of potassa, 7 dr.; melt, add of kennel- coal, 5 dr., and then proceed as before. Prop., (S^c. A deliquescent black powder, with a caustic taste, and empyreumatic smell; 10 gr. with 1 fl. oz. of w^ater, after flltration, forms a clear, dark browm solution, giving a precipitate with acids, without effervescence. —Dose. 1 to 3 gr., twflce or thrice daily; and externally, made into a pommade or ointment (I to 1 dr., to lard, 1 oz.); in skin diseases (particularly herpetic eruptions), scrofula, chronic rheumatism, &c. It has been highly extolled by Dr. Gibert, and by its inventor. Dr. Polya; but apparently undeservedly. Sul'phuretted Anthracokali. Syn. Anthea- coka'li sulphuee'tum, L. Prep. (Polya,) As formula 1 (above), but adding sulphur, 4 dr., immediately after stirring in the powdered coal. —Dose, rise, S^c., as the last. See Fuligokali. ANTHRACOM'ETER. Syn. Antheacom'e- TEUM, L.; Antiteacometee, Fr.; Kohlen- saueemessee, Ger. An instrument or appa- ratus used to determine the heating power or commercial value of coal, or other fuel; also an instrument for finding the proportion of carbonic acid in any gaseous mixture. ANTHRANIL'IC ACID. Syn. Acidum AI^THEAXIL'ICUM, L. A substance first ob- tained, by Fritzsche, from indigo. Prep. Dissolve powdered indigo in a hot solution of pure potassa (sp. gr. 1*35), aiidj add powdered peroxide of manganese, until the liquid, on dilution and exposure to the air, ceases to form indigo-blue; then neutralise the alkali with dilute sulphuric acid, dissolve out the newly formed antheatsIlate of po- tassa with alcohol, and decompose it wdth acelic acid, when orange-coloured crystals of impure antheanilic acid may be obtained; these may be purified by uniting the acid wflth lime, crystallisation, and decomposing the salt with acetic acid, as before, when large colour- less tabular crystals will be deposited as the solution cools. It may also be obtained by boiling chrysanilic acid with a mineral acid. Prop., li^c. Fusible; volatile; condensing •in crystals resembling those of benzoic acid; sparingly soluble in water; soluble in alcohol and ether; with the bases it forms salts, called ANTHEAN'iLATES. By destructive distillation it yields aniline. See Aniline, Cheysanilic Acid, Indigo, &c, ANTHRANIT'IC ACID. An acid obtained, by M. Cahours, by fusing powdered indigo with hydrate of potassa, at about 570° to 575° Fahr. It is identical with salicylic acid. ANTHYPNOTICS (-thip-). Syn. Anti- hypnot'ics (-hip-), &c. See Ageipnotics. AN'TI-. [Gr., dvTi, against.] In compo- position, before, against, contrary to, corrective of, &c., more especially representing anta- gonism or opposition; wdiilst the Latin ante-, is generally used in the sense of before, having reference to precedence either of place or time. Anti- is a common prefix in English w’ords derived from the Greek and Latin, especially those connected with pharmacology and me- dicine, the final i being either dropped or retained (but generally the first) before ‘a,’ ‘ e,’ and ‘ h ’; as in antac'id (-tas'-), antibil'ious, anti-emet'ic, anthelmin'tic, antiscorbu'lie, anti- sep'tic, ^e., whether used as adjectives or sub- stantives. These compounds, which are very numerous, are in general self-explanatorv. AN'TIARINE (-in; -ti'—Brande). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. An'thiaeine, Eng., Fr.; Anti- aei'na, Anthiaei'na, Antia"eia, Upa'sia (-zh’a), L. The active principle of the upas- poison of Java. It is extracted from the par- tially inspissated juice (‘ upas-poison ’) of the upas-tree by alcohol, and may be obtained under the form of small pearly crystalline scales, by careful evaporation.—Prod. About 3^-^ (Mulder). Prop., 8fc. Soluble in 27 parts of boiling water; freely soluble in alcohol; scarcely so in ether; heat decomposes it. It is a frightful poison, to w'hich no antidote is known. Even a minute quantity introduced into a w'ound, rapidly brings on vomiting, convulsions, and death. “It renders the heart insensible to the stimulus of the blood.” (Sir B. Brodie.) ANTI-ATTRI"TION (-trish'-). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ax'le-geease, Feiction compo’, Lu'- BEICATING COMPOUND, &C. Prep. 1. Good \ plumbago (‘black lead’), finely pow^dered and