MUSK SEED—MUSTARD. 932 gulls, also precipitate the solution; hut one of corrosive sublimate does not disturb it. The ashes left after the incineration of pure musk are neither red nor yellow, hut gray, and should not exceed 5 to 6g. Tlie Chinese appear to he the most skilful and successful adultera- tors of musk. Uses, ^c. Musk is chiefly employed for its odour. As a medicine, it is a powerful stimu- lant and antispasmodic, and is a valuable remedy in various diseases of a spasmodic or hysterical character, or attended with low fever. Dose. 3 to 15 gr., made into an emul- sion. Facti"tious Musk. Syn. Resin oe amber ; Kesina succini, Moschus artieicialis, M. EACTITIUS, L. Prep. 1. Oil of amber, 1 fl. dr.; nitric acid, 3| fl. dr.; digest in a cold tumbler, and, after 24 hours, wash in cold water the orange-yellow resinous matter which has formed, and carefully dry it. 2. (Eisner.) From oil of amber, 1 part; fuming nitric acid, 3 parts; as the last, but employing artificial cold to prevent any por- tion of the oil being carbonized. Ohs. Resin of amber smells strongly of musk, and is said to be antispasmodic and nervine. A tincture (tinctera RESiNiE suc- CiNi) is made by dissolving 1 dr. of it in rec- tified spirit, 10 fl. dr., of which the dose is 1 fl. dr.; in hooping-cough, low fevers, &c. Dr. Collier mentions an artificial musk, prepared by digesting for 10 days nitric acid, ^ oz., on fetid animal oil, obtained by distil- lation, 1 oz.; then adding of rectified spirit, 1 pint, and digesting the -whole for a month. MUSK SEED. Syn. Grains d’ambrette. The seed of Abehnoschus moschatus, or musk mallow. They are chiefly used for their odour, in perfumery, hair powder, coffee, &c. MUS'SEL. See Shell-eish. MUST. Syn. Mestum, L. The expressed juice of ripe grapes, before fermentation. When boiled to 2-3rds, it is called carenem ; when boiled to f, it is called sapa. On fur- ther concentration, it yields a species of granular sugar (grape SEGAR). Facti"tious Must. S^jn. Mesteim eac- TITIEM, L. Prep. Dissolve cream of tartar, oz., ill boiling ivater, 7 pints; when cold, add of lump sugar, 21 lb.; raisins (chopped small), lb.; digest for 3 or 4 hours, strain through flannel as quickly as possible, and add of lemon juice, pint. MUS'TAPvD. Syn. Sinapis, L. “ 3'he seed of Sinapis nigra and S. alba.” (Ph. L.) “Flour of the seeds of Sinapis nigra, generally mixed with those of Sinayns alba, and deprived of fixed oil by expression.” (Pb. E.) “The flour of the sjeeds.” (Ph. D.) That of the shops is very frequently adulterated w’ith wheat fl.our. When this is the case, it does not readily make a smooth paste- with water, but exhibits considerable toughness, and some- what of a stringy appearance, especially when Utile water and much heat is employed. The common proportions taken by some grocers are—dried common salt, wheat fiour, and superfine mustard, equal parts; with turmeric, to colour, and cayenne, q. s. to give it piquancy and fire. Uses, 4'c. Pure flour of mustard is used in medicine, to make stimulating poultices, pedi- luvia, &c. As a condiment, it is useful in torpor and coldness of the digestive organs. A few years since the use of mustard seed, by spoonfuls, ad libitum, was a common and fashionable remedy in torpor or atony of the digestive organs. The practice was a revival of that recommended by Dr. Cullen; but it has now again sunk into disuse. Sir John Sinclair also approved of the use of mustard seed in this way, especially for the preser- vation of the health of the aged. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan., 1834.) See Poeltices, &c. Mustard for the Table. The common prac- tice of preparing mustard for the table with vinegar, or, still more, with boiling water, ma- terially checks the development of those pecu- liar principles on which its pungency or strength almost entirely depends. To econo- mise this substance, we should use lukewarm water only; and w^hen ‘flavouring matter’ is to be added to it, this is better deferred until after the paste is made. The following forms for ‘ made mustard’ are much esteemed for their flavour:— Prep. 1. Mustard (ground), 3^ lb. ; ivater, q. s. to form a stijf paste; in ^ hour, add of common salt (rubbed very fine), 1 lb.; with vinegar, grape juice, lemon juice, or white wine, q. s. to reduce it to a proper consistence. 2. To the last add a little soluble cayenne pepper or essence of cayenne. 3. (Lenormand.) Best flour of mustard, 2 lb.; fresh parsley, chervil, celery, and tar ragon, of each, i oz.; garlic, 1 clove; 12 salt anchovies ; (all well chopped;) grind w'ell to- gether, add of salt, 1 oz.; grape juice or sugar, q. s. to sweeten; with sufficient ivater to form the mass into a thinnish paste by trituration in a mortar. When put into pots, a red- hot ]3oker is to be thrust into each, and a little vinegar afterwards poured upon the surface. 4. (Moeearee a l’estragon.) From black mustard seed (gently dried until friable, and then finely powdered), 1 lb.; salt, 2 oz.; tarragon vinegar, q. s. to mix. In a similar way tlic French prepare several other ‘mustards,’ by employing vinegars flavoured with the re- spective substances, or ivalnut or mushroom ketchup, or the liquors of the richer pickles. 5. (Moetarde seperbe.) Salt, lb.; scraped horseradish, 1 lb.; garlic, 2 cloves; boiling vinegar, 2 gall.; macerate in a covered vessel for 24 hours, strain, and add oiflour of mustard, q. s. 6. {Patent.) Black ginger (fvoi&edi), 12 lb.; common salt, 18 lb.; water, 15 gall.; boil, strain, and add to each gallon, flour of mus- tard, 6 lb.