MERCURY. 901 I in the state of vapour. The latter plan was patented by the late Dr. A. T. Thomson. Prop. The corrosive sublimate of commerce I occurs in white, semi-transparent, crystalline masses, of considerable density; it possesses an intense coppery taste; is soluble in about 16 parts of cold, and in 3 parts of boiling water; the boiling solution deposits its excess of salt I in long white prisms as it cools; soluble in alcohol and ether, in the latter so much so that it has even the property of withdrawing it from its aqueous solutions; the addition of j hydrochloric acid, sal ammoniac, or camphor, [ increases its solubility in all these menstrua. It is decomposed by contact with nearly all metallic bodies, and in solution by various organic substances, and by exposure to light, i Sp. gr. 5‘2 (5*14 to 5’42—Liebig). It melts i at about 509° Falir., and boils and volatilizes at a higher temperature. Pur. “ Crystalline, liquefies by heat, and quickly (and entirely) sublimes. It is (entirely) soluble in water, rectified spirit, and ether. What is precipitated from the watery solution, on the addition of potassa, soda, or lime water, is reddish; but when these are added more abundantly, it is yellowish. This (yellow substance), when heated, evolves oxygen, and runs into gfbbules of mercury.” (Ph. L.) Tests. The presence of corrosive sublimate as a protosalt of mercury may, under most I circumstances, be readily detected by the tests j noticed under ‘ Meecuky.^ To distinguish it from other salts, special tests for chlorine or hydrochloric acid must be applied. If, on fil- tering the solution, acidulating it with dilute nitric acid, and testing it with nitrate of silver, I a cloudy white precipitate be formed, which is insoluble in excess of the precipitant, and in nitric acid, but soluble in ammonia water, and blackened by lengthened exposure to light, 1 corrosive sublimate is shown to be present in I the substance examined. Calomel, the only compound of mercury with chlorine besides corrosive sublimate, is an insoluble powder, which could not, therefore, be found in the filtered liquid. Calomel, or the white precipi- tate formed by the subsalts of mercury with hy- drochloric acid and the soluble chlorides, is solu- ble in excess of the precipitant, and is not only insoluble in liquor of ammonia, but is imme- I diately blackened by it. For the purpose of demonstratiny the pre- sence of corrosive sublimate in a highly coloured j liquid, or one loaded with organic matter, it is I necessary to agitate it for some minutes with an ecjual volume of ether. After repose for a short time, the ethereal solution is decanted, and allowed to evaporate spontaneously. The residuum (if any) contains the corrosive sub- I limate, which, after being dissolved in distilled water, is readily reco'^ised by the above cha- I racteristics. ^^Mlen the substance under examination j consists of food, or the contents of the diges- j tive canal, or of animal tissue, it is in general necessary to destroy the organic matter in a nearly similar way to that described under Aesenious Acid.^ The process adopted by Devergie for this purpose consists in dissolving the substance in concentrated hydrochloric acid, and passing a stream of chlorine through the liquid.—Flandin first carbonizes the mass with J or its weight of concentrated sulphuric acid, at 212° Fahr., and then saturates the acid in the cold, with dry ‘ chloride of lime,’ added in fragments, assisting the action by stirring, and further adding, by degrees, as the matter thickens and becomes white, a sufficient quan- tity of distilled water.—Lassaigne boils the suspected mixture for some time with a solution of chloride of sodium ; a method which, ac- cording to Orfila, is not sufficiently delicate to withdraw minute portions of mercury from ffesh.—Millon agitates organic liquids (more especially blood, milk, &c.) in large flasks con- taining gaseous chlorine, which is frequently renewed.—Orfila either dissolves the matter in aqua regia, and passes a. stream of chlorine through the liquid, or he carbonizes it by means of concentrated sulphuric acid, in close vessels.—Personne proceeds by a similar me- thod, but avoids raising the temperature of the substances operated on.—Reveil employs either the last method or that of Millon. In all cases it is advisable to operate in close vessels, on account of the volatility of the bichloride. Orfila’s apparatus consists of a matrass, provided with a bent tube, the one end of which is plunged into a jar of cold distilled water. The corrosive sublimate is found both in the volatilized matter and in the car- bonized residuum, and is extracted from the latter by boiling it for 15 or 20 minutes in aqua regia. When the organic matter has been destroyed by any of the above processes, and a colourless and filtered solution in distilled water obtained, the usual tests may be at once applied. But ill this way we can only detect the presence of mercury, but are unable to decide in what way it has entered the system, although we may infer it from other circumstances. It is, therefore, absolutely necessary, in all medico- legal investigations, to previously employ ether (see above), in order that we may be enabled to examine the deleterious matter in its ori- ginal form, or that in which it was swallowed. Uses, 8fc. Protochloride of mercury is em- ployed as an alterative, diaphoretic, and re- solvent, in the chronic forms of secondary sj^philis, rheumatism, scrofula, cancer, old dropsies, numerous skin diseases, &c.; and externally, as a caustic, in cancer, and made into an ointment, lotion, or injection, in a vast number of skin diseases, ulcers, gleet, &c., and as a preventive of contagion. It acts quicker than the other preparations of mercury, and it is less apt to induce salivation; but it has been said that its effects are less permanent. Dose. to i gr., either made into a pill, or in 1 See pnge 22",