BATH. 284 liable to produce cramp, than immersion in cold I water ; whilst the ‘ reaction ^ or ‘ glow’ follows more speedily iind certainly. It is considered ^ the best and safest mode of cold-bathing, and is often highly serviceable in nerv- j ous affections. A good plan ' is to allow the water to re- j main in the bedroom all night, by which any undue degree of coldness is re- ; moved. Tepid water may j be commenced with ; and at first, in extreme cases, the patient may stand in hot or warm water at the time of taking the bath. The ‘reaction’ following its use is greatly promoted by fric- tion of the surface with dry rough towels. See Douche. Soap Bath. Syn. Bal'neum sapo'nis, L. White soap, 2 to 3 Vj. ; water, 3 quarts ; dis- solve by heat, and add it to a warm bath. De- tergent, lubricating, and discutient; in itch and other skin diseases, &c.‘ Spon"ging Bath (spunje'-). This title ex- plains itself. “ In the sponging bath exercise and ablution are combined, and its employ- ment by persons of sedentary habit is highly advantageous.”^ Siil'phur Bath. Syn. Bal'neum sul'phu- ETS, L.—1. Flowers of sulphur, | to 1 lb.; a pailful; mix, agitate occasionally for 12 to 24 hours, and then add the whole to an ordinary bath. Useful in various mild, but obstinate, skin diseases. Its occasional em- ployment, even in health, seldom fails to ren- der the skin soft, smooth, and delicate. Soap may be used with it.^ 2. (Compound; B. S. COMPOS'lTUM, L.)—a-. (Cutan. Hosp.) Precipitated sulphur, 2 lb.; hyposulphite of soda, ^ lb.; water, 1 gal.; dis- solve, and add of sulphuric acid, 1 dr. One ' pint to every 30 gal. of ivater. In various | skin diseases (see below). \ b. See SuLPHUEETTED Bath.^ I SuTphurous Bath. Syn. Sul'phueous acid j BATH; Bal'neum sulphueo'sum. B. sul'- PHUETSj, L. From sulphur, ^ oz., sprinkled } on a hot plate placed under or near the pa- : tient; the proper precautions being taken as i directed under chloeine bath. In itch, | lopra, psoriasis, &c. Cleanly, but seldom used, ! chiefly on account of the number of baths re- quired to prove serviceable. See Sulphueet- j ted Bath. I Sul'phuretted Bath. Syn. Bal'neum sul- PHUEE'TUM, B. SULPHUEA'TUM, B. SULPHU”- EEUM, &c.,L.; Bain sulfuee, &c., Fr.—1. Sul- phuret of potassium, 1 oz.; for every 10 or 12 gal. of water employed. Sometimes sulphuret of sodium, or (in the Ger. hosp.) sulphuret of calcium, is the sulphur-salt employed. | dr. 1 See p. 275, 278, &c. (ante). * Eras. Wilson. i of sulphuric acid is also occasionally added to the bath ; but this increases its foetor, without adding much, if anything, to its curative powder; whilst, without care, the evolved gas may impede respiration. 2. (Gelatinous; Gelat'ino-sul'piiueous b.; B. s. GELATINO'SUM, L.) FlandeFs glue, to 2 lb.; dissolved and added to a ‘ sulphuretted bath.’i Eecommended, by Dupuytren, as a substitute for the ‘ Bareges bath.’ Obs. The sulphur or sulphuretted bath, under any of its forms, is a powerful remedy in almost every description of skin disease. Leprosy, the most obstinate of all, has been completely cured by it; the common itch re- quires only one or two applications to eradicate it entirely ; all the scurfy and moist skin-affec- tions, local irritation, pimples, inflammatory patches, S^w., speedily yield to its influence; scrofula, and, indeed, all those affections in which the warm or vapour bath is serviceable, also derive powerful assistance from the sul- phur-bath. (See above.) Tem'perate Bath. Syn. Bal'neum tempe- ea'tus'*, L. See Bath {p. 277), Cold Bath, Bathing, &c. Tep'id Bath. Syn. Bal'neum tep'idum, B. egel'idum, Tepida''eium, L. ; Bain TiiiDE, &c., Fr. Approaches the warm bath in its hygienic and medical properties; and is, per- haps, the one best adapted for the mere purposes of personal cleanliness. In the spacious public ‘ tepid baths ’ of London, ‘ swimming ’ may be safely indulged in, even in cold weather. See Bath (p. 277), Bathing, Svtimming, &c. Tum'ble Bath. An obsolete form of the shower bath. Tui’k'ish Bath. Syn. Bal'neum tue'cicum, L. A hot vapour-bath or sweating-bath, with ‘massing’ or ‘shampooing,’ ending with a warm-bath or warm ablutions and friction. The Egyptian, Peesian, and Russian baths, are essentially similar. In the Anglo-'Tuekish BATH, recently introduced to this country, hot dry air wholly takes the place of vapour. See Aie-bath {above). Tur'pentine Bath. Syn. Bal'neum teee- binthina'tum, L. Prep. (Dr. T. Smith.) Camp>hine (rectified oil of turpentine), ^ to 2 pint; Scotch soda, 2 lb.; oil of rosemary, i dr.; for an adult.^ “ It calms the pulse, softens the skin, and renders the respiration freer.” Va'pour Bath. Syn. Dew'-bath* ; Bal'- neum ya'poeis, B. EO''Eisf, As'sa suda'tio, A. VAPOEA'TIO, VaPOEA''EIUM*, L. ; BaIN DE TAPEUES, Fr. The vapour of hot water, either pure or medicated. The simplest form of vapour-bath, is, per- haps, produced by placing some wet cloths, or sprinkling a little water, on two or three heated bricks, laid under a chair on which the pa- tient is seated; both the patient and whole apparatus being covered with a sheet or blanket, or better still, a spacious waterproof cloak, to keep in the heated vapour. A large lump of quick-lime, set in a pan or an old iron-