TIN FILINGS—TIN POWDER. 1275 Its compounds with the latter are sometimes called STANNATES. 2. (Anhydrous.) By the action of nitric 1 acid on metallic tin, the resulting white ovvder being well washed with water; or, by eating metallic tin above its melting-point, in the air. Yellow j anhydrous; insoluble. Obs. Fremy has given the name of metas- ; TANNIC ACID to the oxide prepared by the action of nitric acid on metallic tin; the 1 other (hydrated) he calls stannic acid. See Polisher's Putty {page 1151). Sul'phurets of Tin. There are three sul- -phurets of tin corresponding to the oxides just referred to:— 1. Protosul'phuret of Tin. Syn. Sulphuret OP TIN, Sulphide op t. Prep. A brittle bluish-gray compound, obtained by agitating melted tin with its own w'eight of sulphur, in a I close vessel, and, afterwards, strongly heating I the product. ' 2. Sesquisul'phuret of Tin. A yellowish- gray compound, formed by heating the pro- tosulphuret, mixed wdth l-3rd of its w’eight of I sulphur, to low redness. I 3. Bisul'phuret of Tin. Syn. Bisulphide : OP TIN, Bronze powder. Mosaic gold ; j Aurum musivum, Aurum mosaicum, Stanni BISULPHURETUM, L. Prep. 1. To pure tin, ; 12 0^., melted by a gentle heat, add of mer- i cury, 6 oz.; to the powdered mass, when cold, add of sal ammoniac, 6 oz. ; flowers of sulphur, 7 oz.; and, after thorough admixture, place 1 the compound in a glass Hask or matrass, and j gradually heat it, imbedded in sand, to low I redness, and continue the heat for several 1 hours, or until white fumes cease to be disen- I gaged ; CINNABAR, PROTOCHLORIDE OF TIN, I and SAL AMMONIAC sublime, whilst the ‘ aurum 1 musivum' remains at the bottom of the vessel, under the form of soft and very brilliant gold-coloured flakes. 2. (Berzelius.) Peroxide of tin and sulphur, 1 of each, 2 parts; sal ammoniac, 1 part; mix, I and expose it to a low red heat in a glass or I earthenware retort, until sulphurous fumes cease to be evolved. 3. (Marquis de Bullion.) Tin and mercury, ' of each, 8 oz.; mix, add to the amalgam, I sulphur, 6 oz.; sal ammoniac, 4 oz. ; mix w’ell, I and expose the compound for 3 hours on a I sand heat, so as to reiider the bottom of the ; matrass obscurely red. 4. (Chaptal.) As the last, but expose the matrass to a naked fire, and apply a violent heat, when the mixture will take Are, and a ' sublimate will form in the neck of the matrass, consisting of very beautitul ‘ aurum musivum’ '■ in hexagonal plates. Obs. In the flring or sublimation, if too great a heat be employed, only a gray sul- phuret of tin is obtained. Used as a metallic gold colour, or subsf.tute for powdered gold, ' in bronzes, varnish work, sealing-wax, &c. TIN FI”LINQS. See Tin Powder {below) TIN GLASSf, See Bismuth. TIN MORDANTS. Syn. Dyer’s spirit, Solution op tin. Spirit op t., Nitromuriate OF T.f. These, as noticed above, vary greatly in their composition and character. Prep. 1. Take of aquafortis, 8 parts; sal ammoniac or common salt, 1 part; dissolve, and add, very gradually, of gram tin, 1 part; and, when dissolved, preserve it in stoppered bottles from the air. This is the common ‘ SPIRIT OF tin ’ of the dyers. 2. (Berthollet.) Nitric acid, at 30° Baum^, 8 parts; sal ammoniac, 1 part; dissolve, then add by degrees, of tin, 1 part; and, when dis- solved, dilute the solution with l-4th of its weight of water. 3. (Dambourney.) Hydrochloric acid, at 17° Baume, 4 parts; nitric acid, at 30° Baume, 1 part; mix, and add by degrees, of Molucca tin, 1 part. 4. (Hellot.) Nitric acid and water, of each, 1 lb.; sal ammoniac, 1 oz.; nitre, ^ oz.; dis- solve, then add, by degrees, of granulated tin^ 2 oz. 5. (Poerner.) Nitric acid and water, of each, 1 lb.; sal ammoniac, 1^ oz.; dissolve, then add, by very slow degrees, of pure tin beaten into ribands, 2 oz. 6. (Schoefler.) Nitric acid and water, of each, 2 tb.; sal ammoniac, 2 oz.; pure tin, 4^ oz. ; as last. All the above are used chiefly for dyeing scarlet, more particularly with cochineal. 7. (Lac spirit.) From grain tin, 1 lb., slowly dissolved in hydrochloric acid (sp. gr. 1*19), 20 lb. Recommended as a solvent for lac dye. For use, f to 1 lb. of the liquid is digested on each lb. of the dye for 5 or 6 hours, before adding it to the dye bath. 8. Hydrochloric acid, 6| lb.; aquafortis, ^ lb.; grain tin, gradually added, 1 lb. Re- commended for lac dye. TIN-PLATE. Iron-plate covered with a coating of tin, by dipping it into a bath of that metal. TIN POW'DER. Syn. Tin pilings. Tin DUST; Stanni pulvis (Ph. E. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. E.) Melt grain tin in an iron vessel, pour it into an earthenware mortar heated a little above its melting-point, and triturate briskly as the metal cools; lastly, sift the product, and repeat the process wdth what remains in the sieve. 2. (Ph. D.) Melt grain tin in a black-lead crucible, and, whilst it is cooling, stir it with a rod of iron until it is reduced to powder; let the finer particles be separated by means of a sieve, and when, after having been several times in succession shaken with distilled water, the decanted liquor appears quite clear, let the product be dried for use. Obs. Powdered tin is also prepared by filing and rasping. Dose. 2 to 4 dr., as a vermifuge. Polisher’s putty, coloured with ivory black, is irequently substituted for this powder, and hence arises the ill effects that sometimes follow its use.