186 ANTIMONY. powder; mixed and distilled in a retort with a large neck, by a gentle sand-heat, into a suit- able receiver. Chemically pure. 2. Liquid :— a. (Ph. L. 1746.) Sulphuret of antimony, 1 lb.; corrosive sublimate, 2 lb.; proceed as in the last; but let that which ascends into the neck of the retort (or the receiver) deliquesce by subsequent exposure to the air. b. (Ph. L. 1788.) Crocus of antimony (in powder) and sulphuric acid, of each, 1 lb.; muriate of soda, 2 lb.; mixed gradually, distil, expose the distillate to the air as before, and after a few days decant the clear portion of the liquid. c. (Li'quoe antimo"nii teechloei'di, Ph. D. 1850.) Take of prepared sulphuret of antimony (Ph. D.), 1 lb,; commercial hydro- chloric acid, 4 pints; carefully mix and dis- solve, as above, boil for 15 minutes, cool, filter through calico, boil down to a quart, cool, and preserve it in well-stoppered bottles. The sp. gr. should be 1*470. d. (L. stib'ii mueiat'ici ; L. g. chloea'ti, Ph. Bor. 1846.) BlacTc sulphuret of antimony (in povv'der), 1 lb.; commercial hydrochloric acid, 4 lb.; dissolve as before; evaporate the filtered solution to If lb., add of hydrochloric acid, 9 oz., and distilled water, 1| lb., or q. s. to reduce the sp. gr. to from 1*345 to 1*350. e. (Commercial.)—a. Take of ash or calx of antimony, 3^ lb.; common salt, 2 lb.; oil of vitriol, 1^ lb. ; water, 1 lb.; proceed as before. Prod., 2^ lb. b. From roasted sulphuret or glass of anti- mony, 7 lb.; salt, 28 lb. ; oil of vitriol, 21 lb.; water, 14 lb.; as before. c. From crude sulphuret of antimony (pow- dered), 25 lb.; strongest commercial hydro- chloric acid, 1 cwt.; nitric acid, lb.; as before; the product being coloured with a little pernilrate of iron, and made up to the sp. gr., 1*4. The quality is improved, and the process more easily conducted, if the ‘ crude antimony’ is ‘roasted’ before dissolving it in the acid. The same applies to the other for- mulae. Prop., cfc. Wlienjowre, and nearly free from water, it somewhat resembles butter, melts with a gentle heat, and partially crystallises on cooling; is very deliquescent, and quickly passes into an oily liquid when exposed to <larnp air ; very soluble in strong hydrochloric acid; Avater, according to its quantity, more or less decomposes it. When pierfeclly pure and anhydrous, it forms a white and highly crystalline mass, rapidly decomposed by air and moisture. The sp. gr. of the solution of the shops varies from 1*25 to 1*4, in which .state it is a transparent fuming yellow liquid (unless when artificially coloured), and ex- tremely acid and caustic. The liquid terchlo- ride submitted to distillation at first parts with its water and excess of acid, after which the salt itself is volatilised. By changing the receiver as soon as the distillate concretes on cooling, or produces a copious white precipitate on falling into the liquid already passed over, the pure anhydeous teechloeide may be readily obtained. The dry terchloride con- tains 53ifj of antimony, and 461 g of chlorine. Phys. eff., ant., lesions, Sfc. See Ajttimony. Uses. In medicine, only externally, and chiefly as a caustic or eschar otic to the wounds caused by rabid and venomous animals, and to repress excessive granulations in ulcers. It is the caustic most commonly employed by farriers. In pharmacy, as a source of both ‘oxychloride’ and ‘oxide of antimony.’ The residuum in the retort when corrosive sub- limate is used, is sulphuret of mercury, and was formerly called cinnabae oe antimony. 3. Pentachlo"ride of Antimony. Syn. Pee- chlo"eide oe antimony ; Antimo"nii eenta- CHLOEI'dum, L. Prepared by passing a stream of chlorine gas over metallic antimony in fine powder, and gently heated. A mixture of teechloeide and pentachloeide oe anti- mony is found in the receiver, from which the latter may be separated by careful distillation. It is a colourless volatile liquid, forming a crystalline compound with a small quan- tity of water, but decomposed by a larger quantity. Cinn'abar of Antimony. See Teechloeide OE Antimony {above). Cro'cus of Antimony. Syn. Saee'eon oe an- timony, Lit'ee oe a. ; Ceo'cus antimo"nii, C. metallo"eum, He'pae antimonii, L. ; Ceocus d’antimoine, Saeeean d’a., Fr. Prep. 1. From sulphuret of antimony and salt- 4 petre, equal parts, deflagrated together by « small portions at a time, and the fused mass (separated from the scoriae) reduced to fine powder. 2. (Ant, ceocus, Ph. L. 1788.) Sulphuret of antimony, 1 lb.; nitre, 1 lb.; common salt, 1 oz.; as before. Prop., Sfc. Its medicinal properties closely resemble those of diaphoretic antimony. It is a mixture of sulphate of potassa, antimoniate of potassa, teroxide of antimony, oxysulphuret of a., sulphuret of potassium, and undecoin- posed tersulphuret of antimony, in variable and undetermined proportions. When re- peatedly washed or boiled in water, and dried, it forms the washed saeeeon oe antimony (c. A. lo'tus, L.) of old pharmacy, and has then lost its sulphate of potash, caustic potash, and sulphuret of potassium. Formerly used to make tartar emetic. See Lia^ee oe Anti- mony. Crude Antimony. Native sulphuret of an- j timony melted from the ‘ gangue.’ ; Diaphoret'ic Antimony. Syn. Calx oe an- timony, Calcined' a., Antimo"niate of POT'ASH, StIB'IATED KA'Llf, DiAPHOEETIC MIN'EEALf, &C. ; ANTIMO''nIUM DIAPHO- eet'icum, a. calcina'tum. Calx antimo"nii, C. A. ANOLO"EUMf, POTAS'S^ ANTIM0"NIAS, *■ Kali STiB'icuMf, &c., L. var.; Antimoine DIAPHOEETIQUE, BiANTIMONIATE DE POTASSE, I