MUSHROOMS—MUSK. 931 renders it of the utmost importance to the fanner to adopt preventive measures. These should consist of the supply of wholesome : food and pure water, the adoption of extreme cleanliness, and the free access of pure air to all the stalls, barns, stables, and other buildings in which the cattle may be sheltered. As the I disease is generally regarded as contagious, it is only prudent to separate, as speedily as pos- sible, the healthy animals from those affected. The free use of chloride of lime, as a disin- /ectant, is also advisable. I MUSH'ROOMS. Edible fungi. The species i commonly eaten in England are the Agaricus campestris, or common field or garden mushroom, used to make ketchup, and eaten either raw, stewed, or broiled;—the MorcheVa esculenta, or morel, used to flavour soups and gravies j— and the Tuber cibarium, or common truffle, also used as a seasoning. Several fungi, which to the inexperienced closely resemble the common edible mushroom, possess poisonous narcotic properties, and their j use has not unfrequently been productive of ] (serious, and, in some cases, fatal results. Un- fortunately, no simple test exists by which \ the edible and poisonous varieties can be dis- I tinguished from each other. So strongly was , the late Professor L. C. Richards, the eminent botanist, impressed with this feeling, that though none was better acquainted with the [distinctions of fungi than he was, yet he would never eat any except such as had been raised in gardens, in mushroom beds.^^ Certainly all mushrooms may be regarded as suspicious which are either not so raised, or not collected from a known pasture or meadow by a com- Ipetent judge. The following general characters given by Professor Bentley enable us, in most cases, to distinguish the edible species:— i I Edible Musheooms. 1. Grow in dry, airy places. 2. Generally white or brownish. 3. Have a compact, brittle flesh. 4. Do not change colour when cut by the action of the air. j 6. Juice watery. 6. Odour agreeable. 7. Taste not bitter, acrid, or astringent. | Poisonous Musheooms. 1. Grow in clusters, in woods, and dark, damp places. 2. Usually with bright colours. ^ 3. Flesh tough, soft, and watery. 4. Acquire a l)rown, green, or blue tint, | when cut and exposed to the air. ; 6. Juice often milky. 6. Odour commonly powerful and dis- agreeable. 7. Have an acrid, astringent, acid, salt, or bitter taste. In cases of poisoning by fungi, vomiting should be immediately induced by an emetic and tickling the fauces with the finger or a feather; after which a purgative clyster or a i strong cathartic should be administered, with ^ to 1 fl. dr. of ether in a glassful of water or weak brandy. As an antidote, a solution of tannin, ^ dr., in water, pint, or a decoction of I oz. of powdered galls, or of 1 oz. of pow- dered cinchona bark, in a like quantity of water, has been strongly recommended by M. Chansarel. Alexis Soyer recommended the excellent method of cooking mushrooms by baking them under a glass or basin on toast, along with scalded or clotted cream, or a little melted butter, with one clove, and salt, pepper, &c., to taste. They take about i of an hour in a gentle oven or before the fire. “ When it is taken up, do not remove the glass for a few minutes, by which time the vapour will have become condensed and gone into the bread; but when it is, the aroma, which is the essence of the mushroom, is so powerful as to pervade the whole apartment.^^ MUSK. Syn. Moschus (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “A secretion deposited in a follicle of the prepuce of Moschus moschiferus, Linn.'^ (Ph, L.), an animal inhabiting the mountains of Eastern Asia. It is imported from Bengal, China, and Russia; and, latterly, from the United States of America. That known as Tonquin musk is the most esteemed for its odour; but that from Russia is the only kind which reaches us in perfect bags, or which has not been tampered with. Pod musk (moschus IN VESicis) is the bag in its natural state, containing the musk. Geain musk (moschus IN OEANIS, M. EX VESicis) is the matter con- tained in the pods, and which constitutes true musk. The average weight of one of the pods is about 6 dr.; that of the grain musk which it contains, about 2| dr. Pur., <^c. The musk of the shops is gene- rally adulterated. Dried bullock's blood or chocolate is commonly employed for this pur- pose, along with a little bone-black. The extent of these additions varies from 25g to 75g of the gross weight of the mixture. The blood is dried by the heat of steam or a water bath, then reduced to coarse powder, and tri- turated with the genuine musk in a mortar along with a few drops of liquor of ammonia. It is then either replaced in the empty pods or it is put into bottles, and sold as grain musk. There are only three certain ways of detecting this fraud, viz.—by the inferiority of the odour, by an assay for the iron contained in the blood, or —by the microscope. Genuine musk often becomes nearly inodorous by keep- ing, but recovers its smell on being exposed to the fumes of ammonia, or by being moistened with ammonia water. The perfumers some- times expose it to the fetid ammoniacal elfluvia of privies for the same purpose. Pure musk, by trituration or digestion -snth boiling water, loses about 75g of its weight, and the boiling solution, after precipitation with nitric acid, is nearly colourless. A solu- tion of acetate of lead, and a cold decoction of