CEEEBRIC ACID—CEREBROLEINE. 418 “long boiling and stirring/’ as is generally supposed. The only remedy is, the addition of a little more soap, previously melted with some water, and again evaporating to a proper consistence. A small quantity of liquor of potassa has a similar effect. The colour and consistence of soap cerate chiefly depends on the length of time it is kept heated after the addition of the oil and wax. As evaporation proceeds, so the colour and consistence increase. Its usual colour is that of a lively, pale chocolate-brown, but occasionally it is much paler. This arises from its containing an undue quantity of moisture. When it has been kept heated for a period beyond that usually adopted, it attains greater hardness, and is then fre- quently called hard soap cerate (Ceratum SAPONIS durum) ; but hy over-boiling it is apt to become gritty. Uses, Sfc. Soap cerate is resolvent, cooling, and desiccative, and is chiefly employed as a cooling dressing for scrofulous swellings, &c. It may be spread on linen and applied like a plaster. It is sometimes used as a support for fractured limbs, and forms an excellent dress- ing for soft corns. Spermace'ti Cerate. Syn. White cerate, White dip salve ; Simple c., Ceratum sim'plex (Ph. E.), C. ALBUM (Ph. L. 1745), C. SPERMA'TIS ce'ti (Ph. L. 1788), C. ceta'cei (Ph. L. 1809, and since), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Spermaceti, 2 oz.; white wax, 8 oz.; melt by a gentle heat; add, olive oil (warm), 1 pint, and stir with a spatula until they cool. 2. (Ph. E.) See Simple Cerate. 3. (Ph. D.) The corresponding preparation of the Ph. D. is classed under Ointments, and contains lard. 4. {Commercial.) On the large scale lard or suet is substituted for oil, by which means less wax is required. The following is a good form where a cheap article is wanted, and is that commonly^ adopted in the wholesale trade:— Clarified mutton suet, 5^ lb.; white wax and spermaceti, of each, f lb.; as above. Obs. The materials should be melted by a very gentle heat (that of a water bath is best) in a clean stoneware vessel, and as soon as perfect liquefaction takes place, the heat should be withdrawn, and the fluid cerate strained into a clean vessel, and stirred with a clean wooden spatula until it solidifies. To facilitate the cooling, the vessel may be placed in cold water or in a current of cold air. In this way the product is rendered both whiter and finer than when the liquid mass is allowed to cool by itself. By adding a Y\ti\e flowers of benzoin with the oil, or a little nitric ether when the cerate is about half cold, this, as well as other like preparations, will keep for years without becoming rancid or suflering any material change of condition. Uses, 8yc. Emollient and cooling. It is commonly employed as a soft, cooling dressing, as a lip salve, as an application to chaps, chil- blains, &c. Sul'phur Cerate. Syn. Cera'tum sulphu'- RIS, C. SULPHURA'TUM, L. Prep. (P. C.) Washed sulphur, 2 parts; cerate of Galen, 7 parts; almond oil, 1 part; mix. In itch, &c. Sul'phuret of Mer'cury Cerate. Prep. (Swe- diaur.) Yellow resin, ^ oz.; yellow wax and lard, of each, \ lb.; vermilion, 20 gr. As a dressing to unhealthy ulcers. See Cinnabar Cerate. * Tobac'co Cerate. Prep. Bees’ wax, 3 oz.; yellow resin, 1 oz.; olive oil, 6 oz.; tobacco juice, 4 oz.; mix and evaporate to dryness, and when nearly cold, add bergamot, 2 dr. Used to destroy pediculi, &c. Touch Cerate. Syn. Cera'tum pro tec'tu, L.; Cerat pour le toucher, Fr. Prep. (Soubeiran.) Spermaceti and yellow wax, of each, 1 part; olive oil, 16 parts; melt, add caustic soda, 1 part, and stir until cold. Used in hospitals for “ practising the touching in accouchements.” Turner’s Cerate. See Calamine Cerate. Ver'digris Cerate. Syn. Cera'tum ^ru'- GINIS, C. CU'PRI DIACETA'TIS, L. Prep. 1. Resin cerate, 19 parts; verdigris (in fine pow- der), 1 part. 2. (For. Ph.) Wax and resin, of each, 6 parts; Venice turpentine, 5 parts; linseed oil, 2 parts; verdigris, 1 part. Used as a mild escharotic and stimulant to fungous ulcers, warts, corns, &c. White Cerate. See Spermaceti Cerate. Zinc Cerate. Syn. Cera'tum zinc'i, C. z. oxy'di, L. Prep. 1. Oxide of zinc, 20 gr.; spermaceti cerate, 1 oz. Used in sore nipples, excoriations, &c.; and in chrortkj ophthalmia. 2. (Compound; Cera'tum zinci composi- TUM, L.) a. To the last, add calomel, 10 gr. Used as the last, and in scrofulous ophthalmia. b. (Mid. Hosp.) Zinc ointment and com- pound lead ointment, equal parts. Cooling, astringent; iu excoriations, and as a dressing for ulcers. c. (Hufeland.) Oxide of zinc lycopodium, of each, 15 gr.; simple cerate, ^ oz. In sore nipples, ulcerations of the breast, tetters, &c. It acts best when diluted with half its weight of spermaceti cerate. CEREB'RIC ACID. A peculiar acid com- pound, first noticed by M. Fremy, obtained along with oleo-phosphoric acid when the brain and nerves are treated with hot alcohol. It is solid, white, crystalline; freely soluble in boiling alcohol, and forms a solid gelatinous mass with hot water; fusible with decompo- sition, exhaling a peculiar odour, and leaving much charcoal behind. It has been found also in the yolk of eggs, in seminal fluid, and in pus. With the alkalies it forms insoluble salts termed cerebrates. CEREB'ROLEINE. When oleo-phosphoric acid is boiled in water, it is resolved into a fluid neutral oil and phosphoric acid, which dissolves. The former is cerebroleine.