266 BARIUM. consist of barium, 56*3g; chlorine, 29-Og; vrater, 14*7g. Te>its. The same as for baetta and chlo- EINE (which see). Par.—1. If the crystals become moist, or deliquesce by exposure to the a.r, they contain either chloride of calcium or of stronDium, or perhaps, chloride of magnesium :—2. The di- lute aqueous solution is unaltered by ferro- cyanide of potassium, sulphuretted hydrogen, tincture of galls, or pure caustic ammonia :— 3. Tlie solution, after precipitation with excess of sulphuric acid, should not be disturbed by carbonate of soda, and should wholly volatilise when heated :—4. 100 gr., in solution, are not entirely precipitated by 100 gi\ of (crys- I tallised) sulphate of magnesia.” (Ph. E.) Uses, phys. eff., 6(c. In chemistry, it is em- ployed as a test for sulphin ic acid and the so- luble sulphates. In medicine, it has been em- ployed, both internally and externally, as an alterative, resolvent, and deobstruent, in scro- fula, glandular swellings and enlargements, scirrhous cancer, skin diseases, &c.; and more particularly in the first with marked benefit.^ In large doses it is poisonous. For antidotes see BAETTA. According to Sir B. Brodie, its action on animals is analogous to that of arsenic. Locally, it acts as an irritant. A very weak solution, used as a lotion, often proves serviceable in herpetic eruptions, and as a collyrium in scrofulous ophthalmia.—Dose. gr. thrice a day, in water, gradually in- creased to 2 or 3 gr. See Liquoes and So- lutions. Ferrocy'anide of Barium. Syn. Ba"eii fee- EOCYANI'dum, L. From Y)xire ferrocyanide of iron digested in baryta-water. By careful eva- poration, elfioresc-ent prismatic crystals may be obtained, soluble in parts of water. Flu'oride of Barium. Syn. Htdeoflu'o- EATE OF BAET'TA ; Ba”EII FLUOEi'dUM, &C., L. A white powder, formed by digesting freshly j)recipitated carbonate of baryta in hydnrfiuoric acid,' in excess. I'odide of Barium. Syn. Hydei'odate of BAEY'TA ; Ba"EII IODI'DUM, BaEY't^ HY- DRIO'DAS, &C., L.; lODUEE DE BAEYUM, &C., Fr. Prep. 1. Dissolve sulphuret of barium in water, and add iodine (gradually) in excess ; after the reaction is complete, filter, and either evaporate to dryness, or crystallise, 2. (Magendie.) Digest baryta, or its freshly- precipitated carbonate, in excess, in a hot solu- \ tion of protiodide of iron; filter and evapo- rate to dryness ; tlien re-dissolve and crystal- lise. 3. By saturating hydriodic acid with baryta or its carbonate. Prop., S c. A white or grayish-white mass, or acicular crystals (according to the mode of its preparation) ; very soluble in water and in alcohol; and decom])Osed by exposure to the air. It has been highly recommended as an alterative, resolvent, aucl liquefacient, particu- 1 Crawford; 'Ilufeland. larly in scrofula, glandular swellings, chronic inflammations, and the other affections in which chloride of barium and iodine are given.— , Dose, to ^ gr. (gradually and cautiously in- ci’eased to 1 gr.), in distilled water, 2 or 3 . times a clay. Ejcternally, as an ointment (3 or 4 gr., to lard 1 oz.), as an application to scro- fulous swellings. (Biett.) It possesses all the irritant, corrosive, and poisonous properties of the chloride, but in a much more violent de- gree. Ox'ides of Barium. Barium forms two com- pounds with oxygen :— 1. Ox'ide or Protox'ide of Barium. See Ba- ryta. 2. Binox'ide. of Barium. Syn. Deutox'ide OF BARIUM, PeROX'jDE OF B. ; Ba"EII BINOX'Y- DUM, &C., L. ; BiNOXIDE DE BAEYUM, &C., Fr. Prep. 1. Pure baryta is heated to full | redness in a porcelain tube, and a stream of I pure dry oxygen passed over it as long as the gas is absorbed. 2. Baryta, 4 parts, is heated as above in a platinum crucible, and chlorate of potassa, 1 part, gradually added to it; the ‘ chloride of potassium^ formed along with the binoxide being afterward washed away -with cold water. 3. Nitrate of baryta is heated in a porcelain tube or retort until nitrous fumes cease to be evolved, and then exposed to a stream of oxy- gen, as before. The process for 3 or 4 lb. oc- cupies about as many hours. Prop., &fc. Gray or grayish white; with water it forms a hydrate, which is slightly soluble in water, and undecomposed by it in the cold. It is interesting chiefly in its rela- tions w’ith binoxide of hydrogen and the so- called oxygenised acids of M. Thenard. Phos'phuret of Barium. Syn. Phos'phide OF BARIUM. A compound formed when its , elements, mixed together in atomic proportions, are cautiously exposed to a gentle heat in a ' i glass-tube. Sal'icylide of Barium. See Salicylides and Salicylous Acid. Sul'phuret of Barium. Syn. Sul'phide of barium, Sul'phuret of baryta*; Ba"rii sulphure'tum, Bary't-e s*., &c., L. ; Sul- fure de BAEYUM, &c., Fr. Prep. 1. Sul- phate of baryta, well-dried and in fine powder, i 3 parts ; powdered charcoal or powdered coal, 1 part; the mixture is pressed tightly into an earthen crucible, and the cover being fitted on, it is exposed for to 2 hours, to a bright red- heat ; after it has cooled, the ‘ black mass ’ thus obtained is powdered, and boiled in water, and the resulting solution allowed to crystal- lise, Some authorities recommend forming the mixed powders into a stiff* paste with oil, or oil of turpentine, before calcination; but this is not at all necessary. 2. (Ph. E.) Sulphate of baryta {\)vex\o\x^\}^ \ calcined and reduced to fine powder), 2 lb.; [ charcoal (in fine powder), 4 oz.; submit the ! mixture, in a covered crucible, to a low white heat, for 3 hours; cool, powder, boil for