1248 SUGAR CANDr—SULPHATE. it will draw into a larger string, and if blad- ders may be blown through the ‘drippings’ from the ladle, with the mouth, it has acquired the second degree, and is now called ‘ bloom sugar.’ After still further boiling, it arrives at the state called ‘fealhered sugar.’ To deter- mine this, re-dip the skimmer, and shake it over the pan, then give it a sudden flirt behind, and the sugar will fly off like feathers. The next degree is that of ‘ crackled sugar’ in which state the sugar that hangs to a stick dipped into it, and put directly into a pan of cold water, is not dissolved off, but turns hard and snaps. The last stage of refining this article reduces it to what is called * carmel sugar’ proved by dipping a stick first into the sugar, and then into cold water, w'hen, on the moment it touches the latter, it will, if ma- tured, snap like glass. It has now arrived at a ‘full candy height.’ Care must be taken throughout that the fire is not too fierce, as, by flaming up against the sides of the pan, it will burn and discolour the sugar; hence the boiling is best conducted by steam heat. Any flavour or colour may be given to the candy by adding the colouring matter to the syrup before boiling it, or the flavouring essences when the process is nearly complete. See Stains, &c. SUGAR CAN'DY. Syn. Sacchaeum can- DIDUM, S. CKYSTALLINrM, S. CRYSTALLI- ZAxrM, L. Sugar crystallized by leaving the saturated syrup in a warm place (90 to 100° Fahr.), the shooting being promoted by placing sticks, or threads, at small distances from each other in the liquor; it is also deposited from compound syrups, and does not seem to retain much of the foreign substances with which they are loaded. Brown sugar candy is pre- pared in this way from raw sugar; white do., from refined sugar; and red do., from a syrup of refined sugar which has been coloured red by means of cochineal. Sugar candy is chiefly used as a sweetmeat; and, being longer in dissolving than sugar, in coughs, to keep the throat moist; reduced to powder, it is also blown into the eye, as a mild escharotic in films or dimness of that organ. SUGAR OF LEADf. Neutral acetate of lead. (See 825.) SUGAR PLUMS. Syn. Bon-bons, Dra- gees, Fr. These are made by various methods, among which are those noticed under Drops (Confectionery), Lozenges, and Pastils, to which may be added the following :—Take a quantity of sugar syrup, in the proportion to their size, in that state called a ‘ blow’ (which may be known by dipping the skimmer into the sugar, shaking it, and blowing through the holes, when parts of light may be seen), and add a drop or two of any esteemed flavouring essence. If the ‘ bon-bons’ are preferred white, when the sugar has cooled a little, stir it round the pan till it grains and shines on the surface. When all is ready, pour it through a funnel into little clean, bright, leaden moulds, which must be of various shapes, and be pre- viously slightly moistened with oil of sweet almonds; it will then take a proper form and harden. As soon as the plums are cold, take them from the moulds; dry them for two or three days in the air, and put them upon paper. If the bon-bons are required to be coloured, add the colour just as the sugar is ready to be taken off the fire. Crystallized bon-bons are prepared by dusting them with powdered double-refined lump sugar before drying them. Liqueur bon-bons, now so beautifully ‘got up’ by the Parisian confectioners, are obtained by pressing pieces of polished bone or metal into finely powdered sugar, filling the hollow spaces so formed with salurated solutions of sugar in the respective liqueurs, and then spreading over the whole an ample layer of powdered sugar. In the course of three or four days the bon-bons may be removed, and tinted by the artist at will. Instead of white powdered sugar ordered above, coloured sugar may he used. These bon-bons are found to be hol- low spheres, containing a small quantity of the spirit or liqueur employed, and will bear ^keeping for many months. See Sweet- meats, &c. SUGARS (Medicated). Syn. Saccharides; Sacchara medicata, L. ; Sacchaeol^s, Sac. CHARURES, L. Some of these are prepared hy moistening white sugar with the medicinal substance, then gently drying it, and rubbing it to powder; in other cases they are obtained in the manner noticed under Pulverulent Extracts {page 629), or Oleosaccharum. The most valuable preparation of this class in British pharmacy is the saccharated carbonate of iron (FEREI CARBONAS CUM SACCHAEO— —Ph. L.). SULPHAMYL'IC ACID. An acid formed by the action of equal parts of potato oil and oil of vitriol on each other. After the mixture has become blackened, it is diluted with water, saturated with carbonate of baryta, filtered and crystallized by gentle evaporation; the crystals (sulphamylate of baryta) are puri- fied by re-solution and recrystallization, and are ultimately decomposed by dilute sulphuric acid ; from the resulting clear liquid sulpha- mylic acid may be obtained in a crystalline form by cautious evaporation. The sulpha- MYLATES OF BARYTA, LEAD, LIME, and POTASSA, are soluble and crystailizable. SULTHATE. Syn. Sulphas, L. A salt of sulphuric acid. The soluble sulphates may be recognised by —I. Yielding a heavy, white, pulverulent pre- I cipitate with chloride of barium or nitrate of baryta, which is insoluble in either hydro- chloric or nitric acid.—2. Acetate or nitrate of lead gives a heavy white precipitate, which j is only sparingly soluble in dilute nitric acid, | but completely soluble in hot strong hydro-' chloric acid.