1344 WINE. to wines which do not contain much free acetic | acid; hut when this last is the case, so much | acetate of potash is formed as occasionally to vitiate the taste of the liquor. Fining. Wine is clarified in a similar manner to beer. White wines are usually fined by isinglass, iii the proportion of about o^. (dissolved in 1| pint of water, and thinned with some of the wine) to the hogshead. Red WINES are generally fined with the whites of eggs, in the proportion of 15 to 20 to the pipe. Sometimes hartshorn shavings, or pale sweet glue, is substituted for isinglass; and iov port and other strong red wines abounding in tannin, a little sheep’s or bullock’s blood is very com- monly employed. The use of blood is not, however, to' be recommended, as it commu- nicates a very trifling, but still an unpleasant, flavour and odour, which is easily recognised by the palate of a professed wine taster; besides which, the practice is dirty and dis- gusting. Gypsum and milk of lime are fre- quently Used to clear muddy white wines. See Finings. Flatness. This is removed by the addition of a little new brisk wine of the same kind; or by rousing in 2 or 3 lb. of honey; or by adding 5 or 6 lb. of bruised sultana raisins, and 3 or 4 quarts of good brandy, per hogs- head. By this treatment the wine will usually be recovered in about a fortnight, except in very cold weather. Should it be wanted sooner, a table-spoonful 6r two of yeast may be added, and the cask removed to a warmer situation. Flavouring. Various ingredients are added to inferior wines, to give them the flavour of others more expensive, and to British wines, to make them resemble those imported. Sub- stances' are also added in a similar manner to communicate the aromh of the high-flavouted grape wines. Among the flrst are bitter al- monds, almond cake, or the essential oil of almonds, or, preferably, its aldoholic Solution, which are used to impart a * sheeby ’ or ‘nijttt’ taste to weak-flavoured wines, as poor SHEEET, whIte CAPE, and malt, eaisin, PAESNIP, and other similar British wines; rhatany, kino, oak sawdust and bark, alum, &c., to convey asteingenct, and—tincturd of the seeds of raisins, to impart a ‘ poet wine ’ flavour. Among the substances employed to communicate the BOUQtTET of the flner wines, may be mentioned—orris root, eau de fleurs d’oranges, neroli, essence de petit grain, am- bergris, vanilla, violet petals, essence of cedrat, sweet briar, clary, and elder flowers, quinces, cherry-laurel water, &c. By the skilful, though fraudulent, use of the above flavouring sub- stances and perfumes, the experienced wine- brewer manages to produce, in the dark cellars of London, from white cape, cueeant, GOOSEBEEET, EAISIN, EHHBAEB, PAESNIP, and MALT WINE, very excellent imitations of foreign wine, and which pass current among the ma- jority of English wine-drinkers as the choicest j productions of the grape, genuine as im- ^ported.’*—A grain or two of ambergris, well rubbed down with sugar, and added to a hogs- head of claret, gives it a flavour and bouquet much esteemed W some connoisseurs. Fretting-in. See Sweating4n {below). Improving. This is the cant term of the wine trade, under which aU the adtiltferation and ‘ doctoring’ of wine is carried on. A poor SHEEEY is improved by the addition of a little almond flavour, honey, and spirit) a poet deficient in body and astringency, by the addi- tion of some red tartar (dissolved in boiling water), some rhatany, kino, bv catechu, and a little honey dr foots, and brandy. See Mixing ji {below). Insensible Fermentation, ^ee Maturation (below). " Insipidity. See Flatness (above). Maturation. The natural maturation or ‘ ripening’ of wine and Beee by age depends upon the slow conversion of the sugar which escaped decomposition in the ‘ gyle tun,’ or fer- menting Vessel, into alcohol. This conversion proceeds most perfectly in vessels which en- tirely exclude the air, as in the case 6f wine in bottles; as when air is present, and the temperature sHfiiciently high, it is accompanied by slow acetifiication. This is the case of wine in casks, the porosity of the wood allowing the very gradual permeation of the air. Hence the superiority of bottled wine over draught wine, or that which has matured in wood. Good wine, or well-fermented beer, is vastly improved by age, when properly preserved; but inferior liquor, or even superior liquor, when preserved in improper vessels or situa- tions, becomes acidulous, from the conversion of its alcohol irito vinegar, flartness or aci- dity is consequently very generally, though wrongly, regarded by the ignorant as a sign of age in liquor. The peculiar change by which fermented liquors become mature or ripe by age is termed the ‘ insensible fermen- tation.’ It is the alcoholic fermentation im- peded by the presence of the already formed spirit in the liquor, and by the lowness of the temperature. See Ripening (beloW). Mixing. Few wines are Sold without ad- mixture. It is found that the intoxicating properties of wine are increased by mixing them with other wines of a different age and growth. In many cases the flavour is at the same time improved. Thus, a thin poet is improved by the addition of a similar wine having a full body, or by a little Malaga, Teneeifpe, or rich sheeey; and an inferior old SHEEEY may be improved by admixture with a little full-bodied wine of the last vin- tage. In this consists the great art of * cellar management’ and to such an extent is this carried, both abroad and in England, that it may be confidently asserted that few wines ever reach the consumer in an unmixed or natural state. Mustiness. This may generally be removed