1160 QUINOMETRY—QUINOYINE. chona-alkaloids by beat, and is obtained from the refuse or ‘ mother-liquors " of the quinine manufacturers. Prep. 1. The dark-coloured mother-liquor remaining from the crystallization of sulphate of quinine is precipitated with a carbonate of soda ; the precipitate is purified by dissolving it in dilute sulphuric acid, passing sulphuretted hydrogen through the solution, and, after a short ebullition and filtration, reprecipitating it with carbonate of soda ; the last precipitate is then washed, dried, and reduced to powder. 2. (Liebig.) Crude quinoidine, precipitated from the mother-liquor by a caustic alkali, is exhausted v/iVnether, which, after defecation, is distilled off, leaving the purified quinoidine be- hind. This process has been patented in Eng- land by Mr. Bullock. Prop., H(c. In its crude form quinoidine somewhat resembles aloes ; in its purest state it is a yellowish-brown resin-like mass, freely soluble in alcohol and ether, but nearly in- soluble in water ; with the acids it forms dark- coloured, uncrystallizable salts. It is power- fully febrifuge, but less so than either QriNi- DINE or QUININE, although it is identical in chemical composition with both of them. “ It evidently bears to quinine the same relation that uncrystallizable syrup does to ordinary sugar, being produced from quinine by the heat employed in the preparation.” QUIROM'ETRY. Syn. Cinchonometey. The art of estimating the quantity of quinine in cinchona bark, and in the commercial salts of this alkaloid. Proc. 1. For baek.—a. (Ph. E.) A fil- tered decoction of 100 gr. of bark, in distilled water, 2 fl. oz., is precipitated with 1 fl. dr,, or q. s., of a concentrated solution of carbonate of soda; the jjrecipitate, after being heated in the fluid so as to become a fused mass, and having again become cold, is dried and weighed. “ It should be 2 gr., or more, and entirely dissolve in a solution of oxalic acid.” To render the result strictly accurate, the product should be exhausted with ether, and the mixed solutions evaporated. b. (Rebourdain.) 100 gr. of the bark (coarsely powdered) are exhausted with acidu- lated water, and Ccic,' filtered solution rendered alkaline with liquor of potassa; it is next shaken with about l-3rd of its volume of chloroform, and then allowed to repose for a short time; the chloroform holding the alka- loid in solution sinks to the bottom of the vessel in a distinct stratum, from which the supernatant liquid is separated by decantation; the chloroformic solution, either at once or after being washed with a little cold water, is allowed to evaporate; the residuum, when weighed, gives the per-ceniage richness of the sample. Obs. A like result may be obtained with ether, instead of chloroform; in which case the solution of quinine will form the upper stratum. 2. For the salts. The above methods, well as several others which have been devi> for the purpose, may also be applied to t salts of quinine ; but, unfortunately, they i inapplicable when great accuracy is requini owing to the non-recognition of the preset of QUINIDINE, as such, and which, con: quently, goes to swell the apparent riclini of the sample in quinine. The following ' genious method, invented by Dr. Ure, r merely enables ns to detect the presence CINCHONINE and QUINIDINE in connnerc samples of the salts of quinine, but, with soi; trifling modifications, it also enables us to ( termine the quantity of each of these all, loids present in any sample :—“ 10 gr. of t salt to be examined” (the sulphate is h( more especially referred to) “is put into strong test-tube, furnished with a tight-fitti cork; to this are to be added 10 drops ofi lute sulphuric acid (1 acid and 5 water), \v' 15 drops of water, and a gentle heat appli to accelerate solution. This having been fected, and the solution entirely cooled, drops of officinal sulphuric ether, with 20 (In of liquor of ammonia, must be added, and t whole well shaken while the top is closed the thumb. The tube is then to be clos( stopped, and shaken gently from time to tii. so that the bubbles of air may readily en the layer of ether. If the salt be/rce fn CINCHONINE and QUINIDINE, or contain < latter in no greater proportion than IOq, will be completely dissolved ; while on the s) face, where contact of the two layers of clc flui(i takes place, the mechanical impu) TIES only will be separated. After some tiif the layer of ether becomes hard and gelatino and no further observation is possible.” “ From the above statement respecting f solubility of quinidine in ether, it appei that the 10 gr. of the salt examined may c< tain 1 gr. of quinidine, and still a complete i lution with ether and ammonia may folio but in this case the quinidine will shor; begin to crystallize in a layer of ether. T least trace of quinidine may be yet moi’e d( nitely detected by employing, instead of t ordinary ether, some ether previously saturai with quinidine, by which means all of t QUINIDINE contained in the quinine examin must remain undissolved. It is particulai requisite, in performing this last experimer to observe, {immediately) after the sbakir whether all has dissolved; for, owing to t great tendency of quinidine to crystallizatk it may become again separated in a crystalli form, and be a source of error.” “If more than 1-lOth of quinidine or (an cinchonine be present, there will be found ; insoluble precipitate at the limits of the t\ layers of fluids. If this be quinidine, will be dissolved on the addition of propc tionately more eth(?r, while cinchonine w remain unaffected.” QUIN'OVIHE. Syn. CTnchovine, Qr