443 CHOLESTERINE—CHOLIC ACID. Dose, One table-spoonfal is ordered to be taken in water, on the first appearance of premonitory symptoms, followed by the free nse of very cold water. In half an hour a second dose is to be taken. This (as asserted) is generally sufficient to arrest the progress of the disease. A table-spoonful is then to be added to a pint of cold water, and drank ad libitum. In more obstinate cases it is said that 4 or 5 doses are generally required to effect a cure. When collapse sets in, double doses are ordered to be given, and to be repeated after every attack of vomiting until the sickness and cramp abate. After the vomiting abates, the doses are still to be repeated until 5 or 6 doses are retained by the stomach. Should quiet sleep or drowsi- ness come on, it is not to be interfered with. The free use of cold water or soured water is to be allowed until perspiration sets in and the warmth of the body returns. According to the report, the use of warm liquors, wines, spirits, &c., must be carefully avoided, as so much poison. Obs. A bottle of the above remedy was handed to Mr. Wm. Herapath, the eminent chemist of Old Park, Bristol, by the super- intendent of the Birmingham police, who had I’eceived it from the head of the Austrian police, as being in general use in Austria, under the sanction of the medical department of the government, and being found to act almost as a specific in cholera. In 1831-2, it was first tried on some criminals, with perfect success, and soon afterwards with similar results on thousands of the general public. In 184'9 the Austrian government ordered its use in the public establishments of the empire, since which not a single case of failure had occurred in which it had been fairly tried. P ■ 3. (Mr. Buxton’s Remedy.) From dilute sulphuric acid (spirit of vitriol), 25 drops; water, 1 fl. oz. For a draught; as the last. 4. (College of Physicians and Board of Health; for Premonitory Diarrhoea.) Chalk mixture, 1 oz.; aromatic confection, 10 to 15 gr.; tincture of opium, 5 to 15 drops; to be repeated every 3 or 4 hours, or oftener, if required, until the looseness is arrested. 5. (Dr. Graves’s Astringent Pills.) Acetate of lead, 20 gr.; opium, 1 gr.; conserve of roses, q. s.; for 12 pills. Dose. One every \ hour or hour, at first; then one every two hours. 6. (Homoeopathic Preventive.) Camphor, 1 dr.; rectified spirit, 6 dr.; dissolve, and preserve it in a well-corked bottle. Dose. 2 drops on a lump of sugar, sucked as a lozenge two or three times a day. 7. (Homoeopathic Remedy.) As the last, repeating the dose every 10 or 15 minutes, followed by draughts of ice-cold water, until the symptoms abate. 8. (Mr. Hope’s Remedy.) Red nitrous acid, 2 dr.; peppermint water or camphor julep, 1 oz.; tincture of opium, 40 drops; mix. Dose. One to two teaspoonfuls in a cupful of thin gruel every 3 or 4 hours. 9. (Liverpool Preventive Powders.) Bi- carbonate of soda, 20 gr.; ginger, 10 gr.; for a dose. One to be taken in a glass of water after breakfast and supper daily. 10. (Police Remedy; Mr. B. Child’s r.) Rectified sulphuric ether and tincture of opium, of each, 30 drops; for a dose for an adult; especially during the early stages. 11. (Mr. Ross’s Astringent Pills.) Each pill contains 1 gr. of nitrate of silver, made up with crumb of bread, q. s. Dose. One pill, to be repeated after the interval of half an hour or an hour, should the symptoms continue unabated. 12. (Russian Remedy.) Sumbul, in the form of tincture, concentrated essence, in decoction, in cold infusion, and in powder in the form of pill. Doses. Tincture, from 20 to 60 drops; essence, from 5 to 10 or 20 drops; in a little camphor julep or plain water. The physicians of Moscow and St. Petersburg ascribe to the virtues of this drug the saving of thousands of lives during the last epidemic. See SuM- BTJIi. 13. (Dr. Stevens’s Saline Powders.) Bi- carbonate of soda, I dr.; common salt, 20 gr.; chlorate of potassa, 7 gr.; for a dose. 14. (Sir M. Tierney’s Remedy.) Cajeput oil, in doses of 20 to 30 drops, every two or three hours. The oil excites the nervous system and equalizes the circulation. The late Sir M. Tierney and others prescribed it frequently, it is said with considerable success. 15. (Common Remedies of the Shops.) These generally consist of chalk mixture, with a little laudanum, and some aromatic or car- minative, as cassia, cinnamon, cardamoms, nutmeg, or peppermint. In a few, some astringent, as tincture of catechu, or extract of logwood, is added. CHOLES'TEEINE. This substance is found in the bile, brain, nerves, blood, &c., and forms the principal ingredient of biliary calculi. Prep., <^c. The calculi (gall-stones) are reduced to powder, and boiled for some time in strong alcohol; the solution, filtered whilst hot, deposits crystals of cholesterine on cooling. It forms brilliant, colourless plates ; is tasteless and inodorous; insoluble in water; soluble in ether, and freely so in hot alcohol; it melts at 278° Fahr.; resists saponification; though it has, for the most part, the character of a fat. CHOLESTROPHANE. A peculiar compound formed when amalic acid is treated with oxidizing agents. CHOL'IC ACID. Syn. Gltco-cholal'ic acid. A peculiar acid found in combination with soda, and associated with choleic acid in the bile. It is a conjugate compound of cholalic acid with a nitrogenized substance called gly- cocine. Prep. Perfectly dried ox-bile is digested in