1346 WINE. the wine is wanted in haste, a spoonful or two of yeast, or a few bruised vine leaves, are also mixed in, the cask being placed in a mode- rately warm situation until the new fermen- tation is established, when it is removed to the wine cellar, and, after a few days, ^ fined down’ Taste of cask. The remedies for this ma- lady are the same as those for mustiness. “ In the case of a large and valuable vat of old Christmas beer thus affected, on which we were consulted, we recommended agitation with three 4<-lb. loaves of bread, cut into thin slices, highly toasted (scorched), and then crumbled in the hands. The effect was most satisfactory, and almost immediate; the beer was sold within a fortnight, and highly ap- proved of.^’ (Cooley.) 'For further information connected with the nature and management of tcmes, and other fermented liquors, see Beewing, Feemen- TATioN, Malt IjIQUOES, Poetee, Sugae, Syeup, Vinous Feementation, Viscous F., WoET, Yeast, &c., and below. British Wine. The various processes in British wine-making depend upon the same principles, and resemble those employed for foreign wine. The EEUiT should he preferably gathered in tine weather, and not until mature, as evinced by its flavour ; for if it be employed whilst un- ripe, the resulting wine will be harsh, disagree- able, and unwholesome, and a larger quantity of sugar and spirit will be required to render it palatable. The common practice of em- ploying unripe gooseberries for the manufacture of Beitish champagne, arises from a total ignorance of the scientiflc principles of wine- m.aking. On the other hand, if ordinary British fruit he employed in too ripe a state, the wine is apt to be inferior, and deflcienfc in the flavour of the fruit. The EEUIT, being gathered, at once under- goes the operation of picking or gaebling, for the purpose of removing the stalks and un- ripe or damaged portions. It is next placed in a tub, and is well bruised, to facilitate the solvent action of the water. Raisins are com- monly permitted to soak about 24 hours pre- viously to bruising them, but they may be ad- vantageously bruised or minced in the dry state. The bruised fruit is then put into a vat or vessel with a guard placed over the tap- hole, to keep back the husks and seeds of the fruit when the must, juice, or extract, is drawn oft*. The WATEE is now added, and the whole is allowed to macerate for 30 or 40 hours, more or less, during which time the magma is fre- quently roused up with a suitable wooden stirrer. The liquid portion is next drawn oft*, and the residuary pulp is placed in hair bags, and undergoes the operation of peessing, to expel the fluid which it contains. The sugar, tartar (in very fine powder, or in solution), &c., are now added to the mixed liquors, and the whole is well stirred or ‘ rummaged' up for some time. The temperature being suitable, the VINOUS EEEMENTATION soon commences, when the liquor is frequently skimmed (if ne- cessary), and well ‘ roused' up, and, after 3 or 4 days of this treatment, it is run into CASKS, which should be quite filled, and left purging at the bung-hole. In about a week the ela- VOUEING INGEEDIENTS, in the state of coarse powder, are commonly added, and well stirred in; and in about another week, depending upon the state of the fermentation, and the attenuation of the must, the beandy or spirit is added, and the cask is filled up, and bunged down close. In four or five weeks more the cask is again filled up, and, after some weeks (the longer the better), it is ‘pegged’ or ‘ spiled,’ to ascertain if it be fine or transpa- rent; if so, it undergoes the operation of EACKING; but if, on the contrary, it still con- tinues muddy, it must be either again bunged up, and allowed to repose for a few weeks longer, or it must pass through the process of EiNiNG. Its future treatment is similar to that already noticed under Foeeign Wine. (See above.) The MUST of many of the strong-fiavoured fruits, as black currants, mulberries, &c., is improved by being boiled before being made into wine. The flavour and bouquet of the more delicate fruits are either greatly dimi- nished or utterly dissipated by boiling. General Formulas for the Preparation of Beitish Wines:— 1. From eipe sacchaeine eeuits. Take of the ripe fruit, 4 to 6 lb. ; clear soft water, 1 gall.; sugar, 3 to 5 lb.; cream of tartar (dissolved in boiling water), li oz.; brandy, 2 to 3§; favouring, as required. If the full proportions of fruit and sugar are used, the product will be good without the brandy, but better with it. lb. of raisins may be sub- stituted for each pound of sugar. In the above way are made the following wines :—Goosebeeey wine (‘ British cham- pagne’) ;—CUEEANT WINE {red, white,OX black)’, —MIXED EEUIT WINE {currants and goose- berries, or black, red, and white currants, ripe black-heart cherries, and raspberries, equal parts), a good family wine;—CHEEEYWINE;— COLEPEESS’S WINE (from apples and mulberries, equal parts);—eldee wine ;—steawbeeey WINE ;—EASPBEEEY WINE ;—MULBEEEY WINE (when flavoured, makes ‘ British port’)- whoetlebeeeywine (bilbeeey wine), makes a good factitious ‘ port';—blackbeeey wine ; —DAMSON WINE (makes good factitious ‘port’); —MOEELLA WINE;—APEICOT WINE;—APPLE WINE ; GEAPE WINE, &C. 2. From dey sacchaeine eeuit (as raisins). Take of the dried fruit, 4^ to 7^ lb.; clear soft water, 1 gall.; cream of tartar (dissolved), 1 oz.; brandy, to 4g. Should the dried . fruit employed be at all deficient in saccharine | matter, 2 to 3 lb. of it may be omitted, and | half that quantity of sugar, or two thirds of i raisins, added. In the above way arc made DATE WINE,—PIG WINE,—EAISIN WINE, &C