AT.rM. j of more.' It is next allowed to settle and get thoroughly cold, and the supernatant ‘ mother- I liquor’ being drawn off with a pump or syphon, 1 the precipitate, which is alum in the form of ' minute crystals (technically termed * flour ^), \ is well drained, and subsequently washed by ' stirring it up with a little very cold water, : which is then drained off, and the operation I repeated a second time with fresh water. A j saturated solution of the pulverulent alum ! (‘flour’) is next formed in a leaden boiler, 1 and the clear portion is run or pumped off. I I while boiling hot, into crystallising vessels, j called ‘reaching casks ’ (see Engr.), the staves j of which are lined with lead, and nicely ad- I justed to each other. After the lapse of a j week or ten days, the hoops and staves of these ‘casks’ are removed, when a thick crust of crystallised alum is found, which exactly cor- i responds in form and size to the interior of I the cask. A few holes are then made in the j i^es of this mass, near the bottom, to allow 1 f!ne cx)ntained mother-liquor to drain off, after I which the whole is broken up and packed I in casks for sale. Sometimes the alum thus ; obtained, or the lower portion of it, is washed I with a little very cold water, and, if discoloured, I or small or slimy, is purified by a second crys- I tallisation. i 2. As ammonia-alum (Spence’s process; see ! below), but using a potash-salt as the pre- j cipitant, either wholly or in part, instead of 1 ammonia; and, in the latter case, supple- j menting the deflciency of potash with ammonia, I as there explained. I A. From ALUMINOUS CLAY and OIL OF VIT- I RIOL;— j 1. Clay, free or nearly free from ‘ carbonate of lime ’ and ‘ oxide of iron,’ is chosen for this purpose. It is moderately calcined (in lufhps) in a reverberatory furnace, until it be- I comes friable; great care being taken that ■ > The respective quantities required to produce 100 parts J of alum from tlie sulphate of alumina liquory are— Chloride of potassium . . . .157 Sulphate of potash .... 18 4 , „ ammonia .... 13'9 In practice, tlie exact quantity required may be found by a previous trial of a little of the aluminous liquor; but the indications mentioned in the test will always show the operator when a sufficient dose is added. nil the lieat be not sufficient to indurate it, which would destroy its subsequent solubility. It is next reduced to powder, sifted, and mixed with about 45^ of its weight of sulphur ic acid (sp. 1*45), the operation being conducted in a large stone or brick basin arched over with brickwork. Heat is then applied, the flame and hot air of a reverberatory furnace being made to sweep over the surface of the liquor. The heat and agitation are continued for 2 or 3 days, when the mass is raked out, and set aside in a warm place for a few weeks (6 to 8), to allow the acid the more perfectly to combine with the clay. At the end of this time the newly formed ‘ sulphate of alumina ’ is washed out, the solution evaporated until of a sp, gr. of about 1*38 (1‘24 for ‘ ammonia- alum ’), and the salt of potash added. The remaining operations resemble those above described. Good alum may be produced by this process at about two-thirds the cost of rock or mine alum. 2. (Process of Mr. Pochin.) Fine China clay is heated in a furnace, and mixed with a suitable proportion of sulphuric acid; the latter being considerably diluted with water, in order to moderate its action, which would otherwise be far too violent. The mixture is then passed into cisterns furnished with moveable sides, where, in a few minutes, it heats violently and boils. The thick liquid gradually becomes thicker, until it is converted into a solid porous mass ; the pores being pro- duced by the bubbles of steam which are driven through it, owing to the heat resulting from the reaction of the ingredients on each other. This porous mass (alum-cake ; con- centrated alum) appears perfectly dry, although retaining a large amount of com- bined water. It also contains all the silica of the ‘ original clay,’ but in such a state of fine division, that the whole appears homogeneous; whilst it imparts a dryness to the touch which can scarcely be given to pure sulphate of alumina. From this substance a solution of pure sulphate of alumina is easily obtainable by lixiviation, and allowing the resulting solution to deposit its silica before using it; but for many purposes the presence of the finely divided silica is not objectionable. The sulphate-of-alumina solution so obtained is adapted to all the purposes in dyeing for which alum is now employed; the ‘ sulphate of potash ’ or of ‘ ammonia ’ in the latter being an unne- cessary constituent, and one merely added to facilitate the purification and subsequent crys- tallisation of the salt. To obtain alum from the porous alum-cake (the proper proportion of acid having been used in its preparation, or subsequently added), it- is only necessary to precipitate its concentrated solution with a strong solution of a salt of potash, or of ammo- nia, or a mixture of them, and to otherwise proceed as before. Ratio. In the above process the sulphur of the aluminous mineral is converted by at-