DISTOETIONS—DOSE. 523 ployed, but tbe process of boiling the wort with hops is omitted altogether. The wort is commonly ‘ set’ at 70° Fahr., and the fermen- tation and attenuation of the liquor pushed as far as possible by large and repeated doses of the best ‘ top-yeasV of the porter brewers. It often happens that raw spirit prepared from damaged grain is contaminated with a highly acrid and volatile fatty substance, which is powerfully intoxicating, and irritating to the eyes and nostrils, and possesses an odour very similar to that of an alcoholic solution of cya- nogen. This may be got rid of by dilution with water and skilful rectification, when most of it passes over with the first and last ‘ runnings,’ the intermediate portion being less loaded with it. Another plan is to filter the spirit succes- sively through 6 or 7 separate vessels containing pine or willow charcoal, before rectifying it. In some distilleries the contaminated spirit is well agitated with a considerable quantity of olive oil, and after repose decanted, diluted with water, and rectified as before. The ordi- nary corn oil or fusel-oil of raw spirit is gene- rally, for the most part, intercepted by a self- regulating bath arranged between the still-head and the refrigeratory. The quantity of spirit obtained from various substances, and even from pure sugar, depends upon the skill with which the several opera- tions are conducted. By theory, pure sugar should yield 51§ of alcohol; but in practice 11‘925 gall, of proof spirit is the largest quan- tity which has yet been obtained from 112/i. of sugar. By the revenue authorities this weight of sugar is estimated to afford 11^ gall, of proof spirit. The average product is per- haps about 1 gall, of spirit of this strength for evei’y 10 lb. of sugar. According to Harm- stadt, 100 lb. of starch yield 35 lb. of alcohol, or 7‘8 gall, of proof spirit; and 100 lb. of the following grains produce the accompanying quantities % weight of spirit of sp. gr. ‘9427, or containing 45g of pure alcohol:—wheat, 40 to 45g; rye, 36 to 42§; barley, 40g; oats, 36g; buckwheat, 40g; maize, 40g; the mean being 3’47 gall, of proof spirit. It is found that a bushel of good malt yields 2 gall, of proof spirit, and that the largest quantity of proof spirit | obtained from raw grain, mashed with ^ or of malt, does not exceed 22 gall, per quarter. By the Excise Laws the distiller is restricted, in the density of his worts, to specific gravities ranging between 1‘050 and 1'090; and in Scotland, between 1-030 and 1-075; nor is a distiller allowed to mash and distil at the same time. The processes must either be car- ried on in separate premises, or at separate times. See Alcohol, Beandt, Feementa- Tiox, Fusel-oil, Gin, Still, &c. DISTOE'TIOES. See Spine, Steabismus, SUEGEEY (Popular), &c. DITHIONIC ACID. See Hyposulphueic Acid. DIURE'SIS. See Ueine. DIURETICS. Syn. Diueetica, L. Medi- cines which promote the secretion of urine. The principal diuretics are—aqueous fluids, which act by increasing the watery portion of the blood, and—substances which promote the action of the kidneys. Most of the pro- duce copious diuresis, if the skin is kept cool. Among the last are acetate, bitartrate, and nitrate oi ptotassa ; oils of juniper, turpentine, cajeput, and copaiba ; dilute spirit, and sweet spirits of nitre ; decoction of common broom, &c. DIVIDIVI. An astringent substance im- ported from Jamaica. It contains above 5g of tannin; whilst gall-nuts contain less than 3-52, and the best oak-bark only l-35g. Hence its value in tanning. DOBEREINER’S LAMP. A portable appa- ratus for obtaining instantaneous light by the action of a jet of hydrogen on a small piece of spongy platinum. DOCTMACY or DOCIMAS'TIC ART. See Assaying. DOORS. Much annoyance is sometimes ex- perienced from the creaking of doors. This may be prevented by rubbing a little soap, or a mixture of tallow and black-lead on the hinges; or by applying to them with a feather a little sweet oil, once or twice a year. The trifling trouble and expense (a penny or two a twelvemonth) will be amply repaid by their noiselessless and greater durability. To pre- vent the noise of doors slamming, a small piece of vulcanized India rubber, cork, or leather, may be placed so as to receive the shock. DOSE. In medicine, the quantity taken or prescribed at one time. The doses of medi- cinals vary with the sex, age, temperament, constitutional strength, habituation, and idio- syncracies of individuals. Different circum- stances, especially of climate, exercise an im- portant influence on the activity of medicines. Thus, the inhabitants of England and the northern countries of Europe bear much larger doses in their own climates, than when they remove to warmer latitudes. Warmth, indeed, appears to promote the action of most medi- cinals, whilst cold acts in a contrary way. Nor does the same rule apply to all medicines. Calomel, for instance, is generally borne better by children than by adults; while opium affects them more powerfully, and requires the dose to be diminished considerably below that indi- cated by mere calculation or analogy with other medicines. Prescribers ought not to forget that the action of medicines is not simply proportioned to the amount, but that each remedy has a dose below which it either produces no effect or one contrary to that w-hich we desire it to produce. Dr. Paris remarks, “that powerful doses are disposed to produce local rather than general effectsand Dr. Barlow gives it as his opinion, that “practitioners often err, espe- cially in the treatment of chronic maladies, from requiring an obvious effect from each dose administered.” Adult women are said to re- quire only three fourths the full dose for men,