BREWING. 363 by ventilation on the one hand, and the em- ployment of artificial heat on the other, as circumstances and seasonal changes may render necessary. 8. Fining:—Beer which has been badly brewed or badly ‘ stored,^ or which from other causes may be thick or muddy, requires ‘fining’ or ‘ clarifying ’ by artificial means. For a ‘ barrel,’ about 1 to 1^ pint of ‘ brewer's finings' (isinglass dissolved in sour beer) is put into a bucket, and some of the beer being gra- dually added, the whole is violently agitated with a whisk, until a frothy head is formed. The mixture is then thrown into the cask of beer, which is at once well ‘ rummaged up’ by means of a large stick shoved in at the bung- hole, after which the bung is replaced, and the liquor is allowed to repose for a week or ten days. Sometimes the above method is found to fail with weak and ‘bad-conditioned’ beer. When this turns out to be the case, the addi- tion of a teaspoonful of sulphuric acid, or a table-spoonful oipowdered catechu (previously dissolved in ^ a pint of boiling water), fol- lowed by agitation for a quarter of an hour, will generally cause the ‘ finings’ to clarify the liquor. 2 or 3 oz. of tincture of catechu (mixed with a little water) may be used in the same way. These additions act chemically on gela- tine ‘ finings’ in the same way that good beer does, precipitating them along with the foul matter, and thus brightening the liquor. A handful of hops, previously boiled for five minutes in a little of the beer, and then added to the barrel, and the whole allowed to stand for a few days, before proceeding to clarify it, will generally have a similar effect, and cause the ‘ finings’ to act with certainty. It is the absence of the proper quantity of astringent matter in beer, that usually renders them in- effective. 1 Gen. Commentary. The preceding is a con- cise account of all the essential operations of the system of brewing at present practised in this country. On the large scale, extensive t and costly apparatus and machinery are em- ployed for the purpose. On the small scale, various modifications, of a minor character, of the several processes herein detailed, are fre- ! quently adopted, according to the circum- stances or ingenuity of the operator. The principles and practice of brewing beer are, however, essentially the same under all the conditions here referred to. In Scotland, only one mash is made, and that at a temperature of about 180° Fahr., with one third of the quan- tity of the water required for the brewing, i The ‘ mash-tun’ is then covered up for about I half an hour, when the wort is drawn off; i after which a quantity of water, at the same I temperature as before, is sprinkled \miformly I over its surface. This is performed by throw- ing the water into a vessel with a bottom full I of holes, somewhat resembling a shower-bath, I whence it descends and gets equally distri- buted over every portion of the malt. After an interval of about twenty minutes this ‘ second wort’ is drawn off from several small cocks or holes placed round the circumference of the bottom, by which means the hot water is made to percolate equally through every particle of the mass. This operation (spab,"- ging) is repeated several times, until the density of the mixed worts becomes adapted to produce the quality of the ale then under the process of manufacture. Usually eight or ten ‘ spargings’ are employed; the latter ones being at about 5° or 10° cooler than the first. When a very strong wort is required, the latter ‘ sparges’ are kept separately for table- beer, or as water for mashing a fresh quantity of malt. The ‘ gyle-tun’ is set at 50° to 52° Fahr.; the fermentation being continued slowly for fifteen to twenty days; and the ale is not ‘ cleansed’ before the degree of attenuation falls to about i lb. per day, and not more than ith of the original gravity of the wort re- mains. Scotch ale is justly celebrated for its superior quality. Its usual gravity is 35 to 40 lb. per barrel. In Bavaria^ a country remarkable for the excellence of its beer, the wort is made to fer- ment at a low temperature, until all the sub- stances which favour acetification have been rendered insoluble, and have separated from the liquor. The fermentation is conducted in wide, open, shallow vessels, which afford free and unlimited access to atmospheric oxygen; and this in a situation where the temperature does not exceed 46° to 50° Fahr. A separa- tion of the nitrogenous constituents, or ‘ex- citers of acidification,’ thus takes place simul- taneously on the surface, and within the whole body of the liquid. The clearing of the fiuid is the sign by which it is known that these matters have separated. The fermentation usually occupies three or four weeks, and is conducted during the cooler portion of the year only, and in a situation removed as much as possible from the influence of atmospherical changes of temperature. The sedimentary yeast (unteehepe), and not the surface yeast (obeeheee), of the Bavarian fermenting backs, is employed. The beers of England and France, as well as most of those of Germany, become gradually sour by contact with the air. This defect, as observed by Liebig, does not belong to the beers of Bavaria, which may be preserved, at pleasure, in ha If full casks, as well as in full ones, without suffering any material altera- tion. This ‘precious quality’ must be ascribed to the peculiar process employed for fermenting the wort, called by the German chemists ‘ un~ tergdhrung ' or fermentation from below; and which “has solved one of the finest theo- retical problems that had long taxed the ingenuity and patience of both the scientific and practical brewer.” (Liebig.) In the ordinary fermentation of grape-juice and worts, these liquids do not furnish a quan-