STINGS—STRONTIA. 1241 ! i STINGS. See Bites and Stings. I STIR-ABOUT. Thick gruel formed of oat- meal and water boiled together. When eaten with cold milk, it forms the porridge of the iScotch; and when mixed with the liquor in which meat or vegetables have been boiled, it |is called beef beose, kale beose, &c. : STOCK. Among cooks, is condensed soup or i»e%, used to make extemporaneous soup, broth, !fec. i STOM'ACH AFFECTIONS. Those of a cha- I'acter to admit of being usefully noticed in a bopular work are referred to under the heads Appetite, Dyspepsia, Sickness, &c. Dr. Budd recommends small doses of ipecacu- mha as a remedy for those cases of indigestion .n which digestion is slow, and the food lies lieavily on the stomach, and there is an ina- bility for mental or bodily exertion for some ilme after meals. He says it should be given 1 n the morning, fasting, and in quantity barely jiufficient to occasion a slight feeling of ver- |niculating motion in the stomach, but without I’ausing any sensation of pain or nausea. The lose to produce this effect varies from i to 2 ^r. He thinks there is no other medicine, vhich appears so effectual in removing the iiffections in question. Small doses of rhubarb, mnger, and cayenne pepper, have a similar kind pf action, and may be given singly or together |br the same purpose. “ I generally prescribe jxom ^ to 1 gr. of ipecacuanha, in a pill, with 3 pr 4 gr. of rhubarb. With many, a favourite i-emedy for the discomfort resulting from slow ligestion is a grain of cayenne pepper, with 3 )r 4 gr. of rhubarb. The best time for giving rhese medicines is shortly" (say ^ an hour) before any meal after which a sense of op- l)ression is usually felt." I STOPTERS, when obstinately immovable in bottles, are the most safely treated hy patiently bitting them upwards alternately on opposite lides with a piece of wood. When this fails, he part may be dipped into hot water. STO'RAX. See Styeax. STORM GLASS. A philosophical toy, con- isting of a thin glass tube about 12 inches ong and | inch in diameter, about three fourths illed with the following liquid, and covered vith a brass car having an almost capillary lole through it, or else tied over with-bladder. The solution. Take of camphor, 2 dr. ; itre, dr.; sal ammoniac, 1 dr.; proof virit, 2i fl. oz. ; dissolve, and place it in the ube above referred to. Used to foretell ihanges of the weather. ' STRABIS'MUS. Syn. Squinting. This leed not be described. When one eye only is \fected, an excellent plan is to blindfold the imnd eye during several hours each day, until jhe affection be removed. When both eyes are \fected, a projecting piece of pasteboard, in he line of the nose, may be worn as much as jossible with the same object. In bad cases |f squinting inwaeds, as it is called, the livision of the internal rectus muscle of the eyeball, by a skilful surgeon, is said to often relieve the deformity. STRAMO"NIUM. See Datuea. STRAP'PING. Spread adhesive plaster. Used to dress wounds, &c. STRASS. See Enamel. STRAW'BERRY. Syn. Feagaeia, L. The fruit of Fragaria vesca (Linn.), or strawberry plant. Strawberries are, perhaps, the mildest of all the cultivated fruits; they are cooling, and slightly laxative and diuretic; rubbed on the teeth, they dissolve the tartar, and whiten them. They were formerly in repute in gout, stone, and consumption. The root of the plant is aperient. STRAW PLAIT, and the articles made of it, are bleached by exposing them to the fumes of burning sulphur in a close chest or box; or, by immersing them in a weak solution of chloride of lime, and afterwards well washing them in water. Water acidulated with oil of vitriol ov oxalic acid is also used for the same purpose. Straw plait may be dyed with any of the simple liquid dyes. STRIP PING LIQ'UOR. A mixture of mtre, 1 part, with sulphuric acid, 8 parts. Used to re-cover the silver on old plated goods. STRON'TIA. [Eng., L.] Syn. Steontian, Peotoxide of steontium. Oxide of s. The protoxide of the metal steontium. Prep. Pure strontia is best obtained by ig- niting nitrate of strontia. Prop., c^c. Pure caustic strontia is a grayish- white powder, possessing an extremely pun- gent acrid taste; with water, it forms a white substance (hydeate of steontia), which is soluble in about 50 parts of water at 60° Fahr., and in 3 or 4 parts of boiling water; the hot saturated solution deposits crystals as it cools. Hydrate of strontia closely resembles hydrate of baryta in its general appearance and pro- perties. It readily unites with the acids, form- ing salts, all of which may he most cheaply prepared by dissolving the native caebonate OF steontia in the respective acids. The NiTEATE is the only one met with in com- merce, and is employed to give a red colour to firevjorks. The salt is soluble in proof spirit, and in 5 parts of cold and less than an equal weight of boiling water. Tests. The solution of steontia or its hy- deate exhibits an alkaline reaction, and, like baryta, is precipitated white by sulphuric acid and the alkaline sulphates and carbonates. It is distinguished from baeyta—1, by its in- ferior solubility; 2, by not being precipitated by hydrofluosilicic acid. It is distinguished from LIME—1, by sulphuric acid and the soluble sulphates producing a precipitate in its solutions, either at once or after a time, which is more soluble in water than that from lime, but quite insoluble in acids and alkalies; 2, by its strong solutions being precipitated yellow by neutral chromate of potassa. It is distinguished from MAGNESIA, besides other 1 reactions, by the comparative insolubility of