COSMETIQUE—COUMARINE. 486 TOBY, HaIE-Dte, POMilADE, ToOTH PoWDEE, &C. COSMETIQRE; [Fr.] Hard pomatum, formed into a cake or stick for the toilet. It is sometimes coloured black or brown, the pigments being added in the state of an im- palpable powder. 1. (Black—CosmetiqueNoie.) From good lard, 5 parts; wax, 2 parts; (or, hard pomatum, 7 parts;) melt, stir in levigated ivory black, 2 parts; and pour it into moulds of tinfoil; which are afterwards to be placed in paper sheaths. 2. (Beowit—CosMETiQrE Betjn.) As the last, but using levigated umber for ‘ plain brown,^ and levigated terra di Sienna for ‘ au- burn^ and ‘chestnut.* 3. (White, OE Plain—Coshetiqtte Blanc.) The same, without colouring matter. Obs. They are generally scented with musk, ambergris, or cassia. Use. The above are used to colour mous- taches, eyebrows, whiskers, &c., as well as to keep the hair in its place. The labels on the packets before us have—“pour fixer et lisser les cheveux.’* The application must be re- newed daily, as the cosmetique is gradually removed by friction, and perfectly so by soap- and-water. COTARN'IHE. A crystallizable substance obtained from the mother-waters of opianic acid. It is basic, very soluble, and bitter. Hydrochlorate of cotarnine is soluble and crys- talline. COT'TON. Syn. Gosstpihm:, L. The cotton of which textile fabrics are made consists of hairs covering the seeds of certain plants be- longing to the natural order Malvaceae, or the Mallow family. Our commercial cotton ap- pears to be derived from four distinct species, viz.:— Gossypium herbaceum. The ‘ common cot- ton-plant * of India. It produces the ‘ Surat cotton * of commerce. Gossypium arboreum. The ‘tree cotton,* another Indian species. Unlike the other cotton plants, it has the dimensions of a small tree. The cotton-hairs are remarkably soft aiid silky, and are woven by the natives into very fine muslin, used for turbans by the pri- vileged classes only. Gossypium Barbadense. The ‘ Barbadoes ’ or ‘ Bourbon cotton plant.* This is the species which yields all our best cotton. In the small American islands which fringe the coast from Charlestown to Savannah, this plant has pro- duced the celebrated ‘ sea-island cotton,* which is unrivalled for the length of its ‘ staple,* its strength, and silkiness. Gossypium Peruvianum or acuminatum. A species supposed to be indigenous to America . It furnishes the South American varieties ot cotton, as ‘ Pernambuco,* ‘ Peruvian,* ‘ Maran- ham,* and ‘ Brazilian.’ Identif. See Linen. Dyehig. The fibres of cotton have nearly the same affinity for mordants and the colour- ing matter of dyed stuffs as linen, and may be treated in the same manner. See Dyeing, Linen, &c. COUGH. Syn. Tus'sis, L. The sudden and violent expulsion of air from the lungs. It is generally ‘ symptomatic * of other affec- tions, but is sometimes ‘idiopathic,’ or a primary disease. Many cases of cough depend upon the extension of catarrh to the trachea and broiichise, which thus become loaded with mucus or phlegm, which they endeavour to throw off by the convulsive effort called coughing. In some cases it is caused by a vitiation and inspissation of the secretions, arising from the imperfect action of the ab- sorbents; this is the common cause of the dry cough of old people. Idiopathic cough is not considered dangerous in itself, or while running its regular course, but it is often pro- ductive of most serious consequences, by super- inducing the inflammation of some organ, or laying the foundation of phthisis. Cough is sometimes attended by copious expectoration, and at other times exists with- out any; it has hence been distinguished into moist or mucous cough, and dry cough. Treatm. That of common catarrhal cough consists in allaying the irritation as much as possible, by demulcents and expectorants, as mucilaginous drinks and lozenges, wLich act upon the glottis, and sympathetically upon the trachea and hronchise. Among the first may be mentioned, almond milk, barley water, refined Spanish juice, gum craiic, and a mixture of the last two made into lozenges; among the second, the most innocent and convenient is ipecacuanha, in the shape of lozenges, 2 or 3 of which may be sucked whenever the cough is troublesome. A light diet should be adopted, the bowels kept slightly relaxed by the use of gentle aperients, and a mild and equable tem- perature sought as much as possible. When this plan does not succeed, recourse may be had to an emetic, followed by small doses of Dover’s powders, and extract or tincture of henbane, or squill pill. When a cough is troublesome at night, and unattended with fever, a small dose of laudanum, or tincture of henbane, taken on going to rest, will generally procure sleep. In the treatment of dry cough, the more stimulating expectorants are useful, as garlic, ammoniacurn, styrax, and benzoin, combined with narcotics and sedatives, as henbane, hemlock, and opium. A diaphoretic opiate is also very useful, especially in the cough of old people. See Deaught, Emulsion, Mixtuee, Pills, &c. OOU'MARINE (koo-). Syn. Cu'MAEiN. The odorous principle of the fruit or bean of Dipteryx odorata (tonquin bean). It exists in several other plants, as Melilotus officinalis, Asperula odorata, and Anlhoxanthum odoratnm. Prep. From the sliced tonquin beans, by I macerating in -hot alcohol; straining through cloth, and distilling off the greater part of the