941 NITRIC OXIDE—NITROGEN. jliquid portion of tlie product is removed by a current of dry carbonic-acid gas. Prop., Sfc. Colourless prismatic crystals, lAvliicli melt at 86° Fahr., boil at about 115°, and at 122° begin to suffer decomposition; j added to water, much heat is generated; it [rapidly attacks organic bodies, even caout- ichouc; sometimes it explodes spontaneously. I The process for its preparation is tedious and j difficult. Dilute Nitric Acid. AciDrM niteicum di- LUTUM (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. | |L.) Nitric acid (sp. gr. 1*42), 3 fl. oz.; tZw-1 \tilled water, 17 fl. oz.; mix. Sp. gr. 1082.1 “ 1 fl. oz. is saturated by 154 gr. of the crys- tals of carbonate of soda.” It contains about I 125 of pure anhydrous nitric acid. ! j 2. (Ph. E.) Nitric acid (1-500), 1 fl. oz.; I ; distilled water, 9 fl. oz. Or, commercial nitric j acid (1-390), 1 fl. oz. 5^ dr.; water, 9^ fl. oz.' Sp. gr. 1-077. It contains 11-16§ of pure dry nitric acid. I 3. (Ph. D.) Nitric acid (1-500), 4 fl. oz.; water, 29 fl. oz. Contains about 9-7§ of pure acid. The above are used for convenience in dispensing. Bose. 15 drops to \ fl. dr., or 3uore. The above must not be confounded with the acidum nitricum dilutum, Ph. D. 1826, which had the sp. gr. 1-280, nor with the fol- lowing :— 4. (Henry’s.) Sp. gr. 1-143; equal in satu- rating power to hyarochloric acid sp. gr. 1-074', and sulphuric acid 1-135. Used in assaying. Fu"ming Nitric Acid. Syn. Niteotjs acid.^; AciDUii KiTEicrai pumans, L. The red fuming nitrous or nitric acid of commerce is i simply nitric acid loaded with hyponiteic j ACID (which see). That of the Ph. Bor. is dis- tilled from nitre, 2 parts; oil of vitriol, 1 part. NTTRIC OX'IDE. See Deetoxide oe Ni- lEOGEX. NI'TRITE. Syn. Niteis, L. See Niteous Acid. NITRO-BENZO'IC ACID. Prepared by boil- ing benzoic acid for several hours in fuming nitric acid, or until red fumes cease to be evolved. It closely resembles benzoic acid in character, but differs from it in constitu- tion. NITRO-BEN'ZOL. Prep. By treating ben- I zol with strong fuming nitric acid, with heat ; after the violence of the reaction is over, the liquid is diluted with water, and the heavy, oily fluid.which separates is collected, washed, and dried. Prop., ^'C. Yellowish; very sweet; smells of bitter almonds; insoluble in water; little affected by reagents; boils at 415° Fahr.; sp. gr. 1-209. Heated with an alcoholic solution of caustic potassa, and the mixture submitted I to distillation, it yields a red, oily liquid, from ( which large red crystals of azobenzol sepa- rate. These are nearly insoluble in water, freely soluble in alcohol and ether, melt at 149° Fahr., and boil at 559 4° Fahr. Bini- I TEOBENZOL is made by dissolving benzol in a mixture of equal volumes of the strongest nitric and sulphuric acids, and boiling the liquid for a few minutes; the crystals (bini- teobenzol) which form as it cools are inso- luble in water, but are freely soluble in alcohol. NITRO-COCCUS'IC ACID. Obtained by acting on a mixture of carminic acid and oxalic acid with nitric acid. It forms mag- nificent yellow rhombic plates, which are so- luble in w-ater, alcohol, and ether. NITRO-CU'MIC ACID. From cumic acid, as NITEO-BENZOIC ACID. NITRO-CU'MOL. From cumol, as niteo- BENZOL. NI'TROGEN. Syn. Azote; Niteogenium, Azotem, L. a gaseous elementary sub- stance, discovered by Rutherford, in 1722, and found to be a constituent of the atmosphere by Lavoisier, 1755. It is found both in the or- ganic and inorganic kingdoms of nature; it forms about or 78g of the bulk of the atmosphere, enters largely into the composi- tion of most animal substances, and is a con- stituent of gluten, the alkaloids, and other vegetable principles. Prep. 1. A small piece of phosphorus is placed in a capsule floating on the surface of the water of the pneumatic trough, and after setting it on fire a gas or bell-jar is inverted over it; as soon as the combustion is over, and the fumes have subsided, the residual gas is washed by agitation with recently boiled dis~ tilled water, or with a solution of pure potassa. It may be dried by either letting it stand over fused chloride of calcium, or, what is better, by passing it through concentrated oil of vitriol. Nearly pure. 2. A porcelain tube is filled with copper turnings, or, preferably, with spongy copper (obtained by reducing the oxide with hydro- gen), and is then heated to redness, a stream of dry atmospheric air being at the same time dh-ected through it. By repeating the pro- cess with the same air, and finally passing it over fragments of pumice moistened with strong solution of potassa, the product is ren- dered quite pure. 3. Chlorine gas is passed into a solution of pure ammonia, care being taken to employ a considerable excess of the latter; the evolved gas, after being dried, is pure nitrogen.^ 4. (Corenwinder.) From solution of nitrate of potassa, 1 volume; concentrated solution of sal ammoniac, 3 vols.; gently heated together in a flask, and the evolved gas x^assed through sulphuric acid. Pure. 5. From nitrite of ammonia exposed to heat in a retort. 6. From lean flesh digested In nitric acid, at a gentle heat. Prop., t^'c. Pure nitrogen is a colourless, odourless, tasteless gas, neither combustible ! nor capable of supporting combustion or re- ! spiration. It is neutral to test-paper, does 1 There is some danger of prcducing the explosive com- 1 pouud, chloride of nitrogen, witli this process.