MUD ARIN—MURRAIN. 930 pend heavy powders in liquids, as an appli- cation to burns, &c. MUDAR'IN. Syn. Madaeine. A peculiar substance, possessing powerful emetic proper- ties, extracted from the root bark of Calotropis gigantea, in which it exists to the extent of 11§. (Duncan.) It is soluble in water and in alcohol, and its aqueous solution, unlike that of most other substances, gelatinizes by heat, and becomes fluid again on cooling. MUF'FINS. Pre]). Take of fine fiower, i peek; warm milk-and-water, 1 quart; yeast, a wine-glassful; salt, 2 oz.; mix for 15 mi- nutes, then further add oifiour, peck, make a dough, let it rise 1 hour, roll it up, pull it into pieces, make them into balls, put them in a warm place, and when the whole dough is made into balls, shape them into muffins, and bake them on tins; turn them when half done, dip them into warm milk, and bake them to a pale brown. MUF'FLE. See AsSAYiNa. MUL'BERRY. Syn. Morum, L. Mul- berries (moea, moei bacc^) are the fruit of Morns nigra, or black mulberry tree. They are cooling and laxative; but when eaten too freely, are apt to disorder the stomach and bowels. Mulberry juice (moei srccus) is officinal in the Ph. L. A syrup (sTErPUS moei) is made of it. It is also, occasionally, made into wine. MUL'TUM. A mixture of extract of quassia and liquorice, used by fraudulent brewers instead of malt and hops. MUM. A beverage prepared from wheat malt, in a similar way to ordinary beer from barley malt. A little oat and bean meal is frequently added. It was formerly much drunk in England; but its use at the present day is chiefly conflned to Germany, and to Brunswick more particularly. MUMPS. Syn. Parotitis, L. Inflam- mation of the parotid gland, which is situated under the ear, between the maxillary process of the temple-bone and the angle of the lower jaw. There is little constitutional derange- ment, but the cheeks become swollen and painful, and there is some difficulty in opening the mouth, and in swallowing. The treat- ment consists in simply keeping the part warm with flannel, and the use of warm fomenta- tions, at the same time that the bowels are kept freely open with some mild laxative. The mumps are said to be contagious, as, when the affection appears in a school, it generally goes through every member of it. Low, damp situations are those most favourable to this affection. MUREX'AN. Syn. Puepueic acid—Prout. Prep. (Liebig.) Murexide is dissolved in a solution of caustic potassa, heat is applied until the blue colour disappears, and dilute sulphuric acid is added in excess; silky, crys- talline scales of murexan are deposited, and, after being washed with a little cold distilled i water, are, lastly, dried. j Prop., <fc. It is only very slightly soluble in cold water; freely soluble in solutions of ammonia and the fixed alkalies; the first, by exposure to the air, becomes purple, and de- posits brilliant crystals of mijeexide. These compounds are the puepeeates of Dr. Prout. MUREXTDE. Syn. Peepeeate of ammo- i NIA—Prout. Prep. (Gregory.) Hydrated alloxan, 7 parts; alloxantin, 4 parts; boiling water, 240 parts; dissolve, and add the solution to a cold and strong solution of carbonate of ammonia, 80 parts; crystals of murexide will separate as the liquid cools. Obs. Murexide can be obtained directly from uric acid by the action of nitric acid and subsequent treatment with ammonia. This process is, however, very precarious, and often fails altogether. Prop., It forms iridescent crystals, having a metallic lustre, of a magnificent green colour by reflected light, and an equally beautiful reddish-purple by transmitted light. It is soluble in boiling water, only very slightly soluble in cold water, and insoluble in alcohol and ether. A few years ago murexide was extensively used in dyeing; it is now almost superseded by eosaniline or magenta. An analogous substance, formed as above, by treating amalic acid with ammonia, is called ‘ caffein-meeexide.’ MU"RIATE. See Chloride and Hydeo- chlorate. MURIATIC ACID. See Hydrochloric Acid. MU'RIDE. The name originally given to BROMINE, by M. Balard. MUR'RAIn. a disease affecting neat cattle, I more especially young cows, in the seasons of spring and autumn. The common symptoms are tumefaction and discoloration of one of the hind quarters of the animal, with consequent lameness and inability to move; a peculiar emphysema or intumescence of various parts of the body, particularly over the region of the spine; and all the common features of putrid fever. In severe cases, gangrene soon follows, and death frequently ensues in from 12 to 24 hours. I The rapid progress of this disease admits I of little being done in the way of medication I or attempted cure. Extensive scarifications I of the affected side, hot yeast or charcoal poultices, or hot fomentations, and active pur- ! gatives, appear to constitute the only useful treatment. The following drenches have been recommended for this affection :— 1. (Blaine.) Sweet spirit of nitre, \ powdered cascarilla, 2 oz.; liquor of acetate of ammonia, 4 fl. oz.; yeast, 8 fl. oz.; one every 3 or 4 hours. 2. (Clater.) Laudanum and sweet spirit of nitre, of each, i fl. oz.; solution of chloride of I lime, i fl. oz.; prepared chalk, 1 oz.; warm j gruel, 1 pint. As the last. 1 The apparent incurability of this disease