FELTING—FERMENTATION. 634 FELTING. This is a process by which various species of fur, hair, and wool, are blended into a compact textore, in many re- spects resembling cloth. It depends on the peculiar anatomical construction of these sub- stances enabling them to interlace and inter- twine with each other, by which they become permanently matted together. Felt was for- merly chiefly employed for hats. It is now commonly used for mill-bands, filters, &c.; and when varnished or japanned, or saturated with asphalte or bitumen, as a durable sub- stitute for japanned leather, and for roofing. FENNEL. Syn. FcENicuLrM (Ph. L.), L. The fruit (seed) of Foeniculum dulce, or sweet fennel; the oil distilled from the fruit (oil OF FENNEL; OLEUM FCENICULI, L.) aS well as a distilled water (fennel watee ; aqua fceni- CULI, L.), are officinal in the Pharmacopoeias. They are stimulant and carminative; but are now seldom employed. FEN'UGREEK. The seeds of Trigonella Foenum Grcecum. Resolvent and stomachic. The seeds dye yellow; formerly roasted for coffee; now chiefly employed in veterinary medicine. FER'MENT. Syn. Feementum, L. A substance which induces fermentation. Fer- ments are compounds whose decomposition proceeds simultaneously with that of the body undergoing metamorphosis. They all contain albuminous or azotized principles, which in a moist state putrefy and suffer spontaneous de- composition. Ferments are either naturally present in the fermentable substance, as in the juice of grapes; or are added to it, as in the fermentation of worts, where yeast consti- tutes the ferment. See Feementation and Yeast. FERMENTATION. Syn. Feementatio, L. In chemistry, a peculiar metamorphosis of a complex organic substance, by a transposition of its elements under the agency of an external disturbing force. Fermentation, according to the theory proposed by Liebig, is a metamor- phosis, by which the elements of a complex molecule group themselves so as to form more intimate and stable compounds. It is excited by the contact of all bodies the elements of which are in a state of active decomposition or fermentation. “In nitrogenized substances of a very complex constitution, putrefaction or fermentation is spontaneously established when water is present, and the temperature suffi- ciently high, and it continues till the original compounds are wholly destroyed. Substances destitute of nitrogen, on the contrary, require, in order to their undergoing this metamor- phosis, the presence of a nitrogenized sub- stance, already in a state of putrefaction (fer- mentation).” (Liebig.) The substances which promote this change are termed feements; and among these the principal are gliadin, gluten, vegetable albumen, and all nitrogenous substances in a state of spontaneous decompo- sition or fermentation, “ It is imagined that when these substances, in the act of under- going change, are brought into contact with neutral ternary compounds of small stability, as sugar, the molecular disturbance of the body, already in a state of decomposition, may be, as it were, propagated to the other, and bring about the destruction of the equilibrium of forces to which it owes its being. The com- plex body, under these circumstances, breaks up into simpler products, which possess greater permanence.” (Fownes.) Yeast, the ferment most commonly employed for inducing the vinous fermentation, is such a substance in an active state of putrefaction, and whose atoms are in continual motion. Putrefying animal substances are equally capable of ex- citing the same action. “If we add to a so- lution of pure sugar an albuminous substance, a caseous or fleshy matter, the development of yeast, becomes manifest, and an additional quantity of it is found at the end of the ope- ration. Thus, with nourishment, ferment en- genders ferment. It is for this reason that a little fermenting must, added to a body of fresh grape juice, excites fermentation in the whole mass. These effects are not confined to alco- holic (vinous) fermentation. The smallest portion of sour milk, of sour dough, or sour juice of beet-root, of putrefied flesh or blood, occasions like alterations in fresh milk, dough, juice of beet-root, flesh, and blood. But fur- ther, and which is a very curious circumstance, if we put into a liquid containing any ferment- ing substance another in a sound state, the latter would suffer decomposition under the influence of the former. If we place urea in the presence of beer-yeast, it experiences no change; while if we add it to sugar-water in a fermenting state, the urea is converted into carbonate of ammonia. We thus possess two modes of decomposition; the one direct, the other indirect.” (lire.) It is only in complex organic molecules of a higher order that fermentation or putrefac- tion takes place. The immediate cause of fermentation in such bodies as are not suffi- ciently complicated to undergo this change by the mere action of water and caloric, is most rationally presumed to arise from immediate contact with the atoms of those bodies which are undergoing this change. Thus, the motion or conflict of the elements of the body in a state of decomposition, as those of yeast when employed to excite the vinous fermentation, destroys the equilibrium of the atoms of the sugar, and these, grouping themselves accord- ing to their special attractions, enter into new combinations, and form new compounds. The charcoal (carbon) of the sugar partly unites itself to the oxygen, forming carbonic acid, and partly to the hydrogen, forming alcohol. A similar kind of decomposition and inter- change of elements take place in all organic substances during the state of fermentation; the proportions of the elements liberated, and the compounds formed by their reunion, vary-