140 AMMONIA. Arse"niate of Ammonia. St/n. Ammoxi^ Arse'nias, L. Prep. 1. (Neuteal.) Saturate a warm concentrated solution of arsenic acid with sesquicarbonate of ammonia in slight ex- cess ; evaporate by a gentle heat, that crystals may form on cooling. 2. (Binarse"niate; Ammonia Binaese'- NIAS, L.) As above, but adding an additional equiv. of the acid, as soon as any excess of ammonia has been expelled by the heat em- ployed to evaporate the solution.—Dose (of either). to fL gr.; in phthisis, certain shin diseases, &c. See Solutiois'S (and below). Ar'senite of Ammonia. Syn. A:viMOXiiE Ae'senis, L. Prep. From a hot concentrated solution of arsenious acid, and sesquicarbonate of ammonia, as the last.— Used (chiefly) to make arsenite of iron. The properties and physiological effects of the above arsenical preparations are for the most parts similar to those of arseniate and arsenite of potassa (which see). They are all poisonous. Aii'h’ate of Ammonia. See Ammoniueet oe Gold. Ben'zoate of Ammonia. Syn. Ammonij;: Ben'zoas, L. Prep. 1. Dissolve benzoic acid in strong water of ammonia, to saturation, then further add ammonia in slight excess, and crys- tallise by refrigeration, or in vacuo. 2. (Liquid; Solu'tio ammoki.® benzo- a'tis, L.) As the last, but without evaporating the solution. Prop., (^c. Very soluble and very difficult to crystallise. If the solution is boiled for a short time and then abandoned to spontaneous evaporation, crystals of Acid benzoate of AMMONIA are deposited. It is used chiefly as a chemical test; but has been recently recom- mended in chronic bronchitis, old coughs, &c.; and to check the formation of chalk-stones and urinary calculi.—Dose. 10 to 15 gr.; (of the solution) 15 drops to 1 fl. dr,, or more. See Benzoic Acid. Car'bonates of Ammonia. Ammonia combines with carbonic acid in several proportions, and the new compounds, (with one exception,) con- tain one or more equivalents of water. These facts were noticed by Sir H. Davy (a.d. 1801); and they were afterwards continued by his brother. Dr. John Davy, who demonstrated the existence of at least compounds of this class. More recently, the researches of Prof. H. Rose have developed the existence of twelve different combinations of ammonia, carbonic acid, and water, as shown in the following— Table of the Ammonia-Carbonates. Neutral or Monocarbonate Carbonate • 1 (anhydrous') ... 2 (commercial) ... 1 2 NH,, COo, ... 2NH3,2CO:, lAq. ... 4NH.„ 5CO; 4Aq. „ „ 5 Aq. 3 „ „ 12 Aq. ' i Sesquicarbonate 1 (commercial) ... ... 2NH3, 3CO., 2Aq. I f i 2 „ „ 5 Aq. ^ Carbonate ... 4 NH3, 7 CO.„ 12 Aq. 9. i Bicarbonate 1 (commercial) ... NH3, 2COo, 2Aq. " ,, 2 „ „ 3 Aq. - 99 • • * • 3 ... 2 NII3, 4 CO.„ 5 Aq. 1 Carbonate 1 ... 4 NHg, 9 CO^, 10 Aq. It is probable that some of these carbonates are mere compounds of the neutral carbonate and the bicarbonate,c\t\i&r mechanically blended or held together by very feeble affinity. That this is the case with the common sesquicar- bonate of the shops, appears from the fact, that when this salt is exposed to the air, the neutral carbonate is evolved, and, after a time, the residuum is found to consist entirely of bicar- bonate of ammonia ; and this under conditions in which it is impossible that the second equiv. of carbonic acid in the latter, could be derived from the atmosphere. The like occurs on the digestion of this salt in a small quantity of very cold water, when a solution of car- bonate of ammonia is obtained, whilst the bicarbonate remains undissolved, and preserves the form and dimensions of the original com- ])Ound. (Dalton; Scanlan.) Sesquicarbonate of ammonia may be hence reasonably regarded as a double salt composed of one eq. each of the neutral carbonate and the bicarbonate, lield together by an affinity which is feebler than that existing between the carbonate and! 1 caloric or water.2 1. Car'bonate of Ammonia. Syn. Mono-'^ car'bonate of ammonia, Neuteal c. of a. Carbonate of oxide of ammo"nium; Am-|^ mo"ni.e cae'bonas, a. monocae'bonas, a. subcae'bonas t, L. This article must be dls-^, tinguished from the carbonate of ammonia of iL commerce, which is now generally termed the sesquicarbonate. Prep.—a. Pure anhydrous ; Caebonamide ; Carbonate of iiydeamide.^ By the direct union of one volume of gaseous carbonic acid w’ith two vols. of gaseous ammonia ; both pre- viously dried and cooled. The product, which is highl}’’ pungent and volatile, condenses in white flocks. b. Commercial or hydrous. (Ph. D. 1826.) Take of sal ammoniac and carbonate • Carbonamide—Dumas; Carbonate of iiydra- MiDE—Rose. these words; also Nomenclature. 2 Phillips; Rose ; Dalton. 3 See Note, p. LS5; also, Note 1 rant(!).