BISMETHYLE—BISMUTH. 315 , lb. of the finest pastry-fiour, and the grated rind of 2 lemons. Put it into ' shapes/ sift a ! little sugar over them, and bake them in but- , tered tin-moulds, in a moderately quick oven, I for nearly half an hour.^ " DevTled biscuits, in cookery, are captain’s k' biscuits (or any similar kind) buttered on both |{ peppered well, and then covered on one side with a slice of good cheese formed into a I paste with made mustard; the whole being ; seasoned with a little cayenne pepper, is, lastly, ; grilled. Chopped anchovies, or essence of an- ij chovies, is a good addition. \ BISME'THYLE (biz-me'-thil). Syn. Bism- Ij e'thtle, Bis'muth-ethyle. a yellow liquid • formed by the action of iodide of ethyle on an ; alloy of bismuth and potassium, from the ' residue of which it is extracted by ether.— ' Prop. Odour, very nauseous; fumes ihflame 1 on contact with the air; light decomposes it. . Sp. gr., 1-82. I BIS'MUTH (hiz'-). Syn. Tin'-glass; BiSMU'THUM, ViSMU'tUM, MAECASl'TAf, L.; , Bismuth, Etain de glace, Fr.; Bismuth, ! WiSMUTH, W.-METALL, Ger, One of the i metals. Hist. It is first mentioned and described I by Agricola (a.d. 1529). It was subsequently 1 studied by Stahl, Kir wan, Geoffery, and others; j hut for an exact examination of both it, and its compounds, we are indebted to Berzelius. Sources. Bismuth occurs in the mineral j kingdom in the metallic state (na'tiye bis- I MUTh), and in combination with sulphur I (bis'mCthine), and with oxygen (b. o'chee, I &c.). That of commerce is mostly imported from Saxony, where it is chiefly obtained from ! ‘native bismuth,^ by the simple process of eliquation. Prep. 1. Bismuth of commeece : — The ore, sorted by hand from the ‘ gangue,^ and “broken into pieces of about the size of nuts, is i introduced into the ignited iron-pipes of the i furnace (see engr.), until these latter are filled i to about one-half their diameter, and to three- Bismuth-furnace in Section, {a.) Eliquatioii-tube.2 (6.) End at which it is ‘ charged.’ (c ) End from which the ‘metal’ flows. (d.) Receiving-pan. (e.) Water-trough, (/.) Grate, &c.3 (ff- 9-) Erauglit-lioles. ^ A few fa7icij biscuits ■«'ill be found noticed in their alphabetical places. See Cra.cknel3, Macaroons, &c. ® Several of these ‘ tubes ’ are usually set side by side together. * Usually 07ie to each ‘ eliquation-tube.’ fourths of their length. From these the ‘liquefied metaP is allowed to flow into iron- pans containing some coal-dust, and from these into a trough of water, in which it is granu- lated and cooled. It is subsequently remelted and cast into moulds so as to form ‘ bars ’ varying in weight from 25 to 56 lb. each. In this state it usually contains a small admixture of arsenic, iron, lead, and sulphur; from the first of which it may be freed by exposure, for some time, under charcoal, at a dull red-heat. 2. Medicinal:— a. (Bismuthum eepuega'tum, P. Cod. 1839.) Bismuth, in powder, 20 parts; nitre, 1 part; mix, heat the compound to redness in a covered crucible, and let it cool; repulverise the ‘button’ thus obtained, and treat it a second time in the same way. b. (Ph. Bor. 1847.) Bismuth, in powder, 8 oz.; carbonate of soda (dry), 1 oz.; sulphur, 1 dr.; mix, fuse for an hour, cool, and care- fully separate the metal from the scoriae. Nearly pure. 3. PuEE:—Heat to redness, in a covered crucible, a mixture of oxide, or subnitrate of bismuth, with half its weight of charcoal. Prop. Colour, grayish white with a reddish tint; crystalline; very brittle (may be pow- dered) ; melts at about 480° Fahr., and does not re-solidify until cooled to 6 or 7° below this point; volatilises at a strong heat, and, in close vessels, the fumes condense unchanged, in crystalline laminae; little acted on by the air, but when exposed to it at a high tem- perature burns with a faint blue flame, emitting yellow fumes which condense into a yellow pulverulent oxide; when slowly cooled, in large masses, it forms large cubic crystals, or octahedrons, of great beauty; nitric acid, somewhat dilute, dissolves it freely. It is highly diamagnetic. Sp. gr., 9*8 to 9'83, which, by careful hammering, may be increased to 9‘8827.‘‘ A bar of bismuth when heated from 32° to 212°, expands exactly in length. Bismuth forms two, if not three, compounds (oxides) with oxygen; but only one possesses any practical interest. Its salts are non- volatile (excepting the chloride), decomposed at a red heat, colourless, and their aqueous solutions are decomposed by water in excess. Pur. “ It is (entirely) dissolved by nitric acid somewhat dilute. When subnitrate of bismuth is precipitated from this solution by ammonia, the liquor is free from colour.” (Ph. L. 1836.) “Its sp. gr. is 9'8.” (Ph. L. 1851.) “ Its powder is entirely soluble in nitric acid, with the aid of heat; and the solution is colourless, or nearly so, and deposits a white powder when much diluted with cold water.” (Ph. E. 1841.) The presence of cujiper may be detected by the nitric solution exhibiting a blue colour after precipitation with ammonia. * According to Booth, mere pressure reduces its sp. gr. Under a pressure of 200,000 lb. its density decreases to 9-556.