ALOPE'CIA (-sh’a). [L.] Syn. Al'opeot, Fox'-EVIL; AlOPECIE, Fr.; FUCHSEAUDE,Ger.; In pathology^ baldness from disease, often ex- tending to the beard and eyebrows; as dis- tinguished from ‘calvities/ or ordinary baldness arising from attenuation of the scalp or de- fective nutrition. ALFAC'A. A species of Llama, popularly hnown as the Peruvian Sheep, an animal intermediate between the camel and sheep, having long silky hair, nearly as fine as that of the Cashmere goat. It was introduced to the British manufacturers in 1834, when only hlQOlbs. of it was imported; but it soon became an important article of commerce, the quantity imported having gradually risen to above 2| millions of lbs. in 1853; whilst the price has risen from about 9d. to 2,s. 7d. the lb., in the same time. The name is also given to fabrics woven from the wool of this animal; and to ; others in fine wool, made in imitation of them. I The gigantic factory, &c., erected at Saltaire, Yorkshire, in 1852, for this manufacture, I covers about 12 acres of land. See Llama. I AL'PHA-OESELL'IC ACID. See Oesellic Acid. ALPTNE (-in). Syn. Alpi'nus, Alpes'tris, L.; Alpine, Alpestee, Fr.; Alpin, Ger. ' In botany, horticulture, zoology, 8(c., pertaining : to, or growing or living in mountains.—Al- I PINE PLANTS, are low plants which grow na- I turally in hilly or mountainous situations, and I which require the protection of glass frames, I in lieu of snow, during winter, i AL'QUIFOU (-ke-foo). Syn. Black lead-ore, ' Potter’s ore. A native sulphuret of lead used j by potters to give a green glaze to coarse wares. ALTERATIVE (awl'-ter-a-tiv). Syn. Ai!- f TERANT* ; Al'tERANS (al'-), L.; AlTERANT, j Alteratif, Fr. In medicine, having power to alter; applied to substances and agents I which occasion a change in the habit or con- I stitution, and thus re-establish the healthy ! functions of the body, or any part of it, witli- I out producing any sensible evacuation or other obvious effect. 1 ALTERATIVES (-tivz). Syn. Alter an'tia, L.; Alteeatifs, &c., Fr. Alterative medi- , cines or agents. The preparations of mercury I and iodine, when properly administered, are the most useful members of this class; and I are those which are now the most generally ! employed. ; ALTHE'INE (al-the'-m; aVthane—Craig, is ^ or §). Syn. Alth^Tna (-i'-na—Mayne), L. The name given by Braconnot to a substance identical with asparagine, which he discovered in the ^ marsh-mallow ’ (althce'a oMcina'lis, I Linn.). ! ALTHIONIC ACID. A new acid discovered 1 by Regnault in the residual liquor of the pre- ( paration of olefiant gas from alcohol and oil of I vitriol. It is also found among the products f of the action of anhydrous sulphuric acid on ij ether. With the bases it forms salts called ' althi'onates, which have the same composi- tion as the sulphovinates; but are distinct salts. (Regnault and Ettling.) Its precise formula and properties are not yet determined. AL'UDEL (-U-). In chemistry, a pear-shaped glass or earthen pot open at both ends, for- merly much used for connecting other ves- sels in the process of sublimation. A number of them joined together are still employed for the distillation of quicksilver, in Spain. AL'UM. Syn. Pot'ash-alum, Sul'phate OP alu'mina and potas'sa; Alu'men, a. poTAs'sicuM, L.; Alu'men, Sulphas alu'- MIN^ ET potas'sa, Ph. L. E. & D.; Alun, Sulphate d’alumine et de potasse, Fr.; Alaun, Ger.; Alume, Ital. The alum of commerce is a salt composed of alumina, po- tassa, and sulphuric acid; and, in its crystal- lised state, a large quantity of combined water. Hist. The pure alum of modern commerce appears to have been unknown to antiquity. According to the learned Beckman, the (jTVTrrrfpLa, of the Greeks, and the alumen of the Romans, was sulphate of iron.^ Pliny, in speaking of an article of this kind, describes it as striking a black colour with pomegranate juice. The white substance (vypa) which he refers to as being employed in dyeing wool of bright colours,^ may have been a native sul- phate of alumina; perhaps the ‘mountain butter ’ of German mineralogists, as suggested by Dr. Ure. Other writers think it highly probable that ordinary alum was known be- fore the time of Pliny; and the test which that writer says the ancient dyers applied to it, was merely to determine which specimen blackened least {i.e., contained the least iron), in order to obtain a good mordant for their reds. Dr. Pereira thinks it probable that Pliny “ was acquainted with it, although he did not distinguish it from sulphate of iron.” It has been stated, that the invention of pot- ash-alum (ordinary alum) was certainly later than the 12th century (Beckman); but Pliny (a.d. 23—79) and Geber (a.d. 750), describe the process of burning it, which they could not have done, had they been unacquainted with it. The first alum works are said to have been established by the Asiatics, at Roccha, in Syria (about A.D. 1300). Alum was afterwards made at Foya Nova, near Smyrna, and in the neigh- bourhood of Constantinople. These places, through the commercial states of Italy, wholly supplied the dyers of western Europe with alum, until the middle of the fifteenth cen- tury. About this time, its manufacture was commenced at Tolfa, Viterbo, and Volterra, in Italy; and during the early portion of the following century, works were carried on at Oberkaufungen and other places in Germany, and at Almacoran in Spain. Alum was first manufactured in England during the reign of Queen Elizabeth, by one Thomas, aftervv ards 1 “ Hist, of Invert. ” i, 288. 8 “ Hist. Nat.," XXXV, 15.