APPENDIX. 1389 for ^ hourj then filter through clean tow moistened with distilled water. Solution of Hydeochloeate of Am- monia. 1 oz. in 8 fl. oz.; make up to 10 fl. oz. Solution of Hydeosulphueet of Am- monia. Pass sulphuretted hydrogen through solution of ammonia, 1 fi. oz., till it ceases to he absorbed. Preserve in a well-stopped green- glass bottle. Solution of Iodate of Potash. Iodine, 50 gr., and chlorate of potash, 50 gr., rubbed together to a fine powder; distilled water, ^ oz., acidulated with nitric acid, 5 minims; digest in a Florence flask, at a gentle heat, until tbe colour of the iodine disappears; boil for 1 minute; transfer to a capsule, and evapo- rate to perfect dryness, at 212°; dissolve residue in distilled water, 10 fl. oz., and filter. Solution of Iodide of Potassium. 1 oz. in 8 fl. oz.; make up to 10 fl. oz. Solution of Oxalate of Ammonia. Pu- rified oxalic acid, 1 oz., dissolved in boiling dis- tilled water, 8 fl. oz.; neutralize with car- bonate of ammonia (in powder). Alter, cool, and crystallize; dry the crystals on Altering paper, without heat, and, selecting those free from efflorescence, dissolve \ oz. in warm distilled water, 1 pint. j Solution of Phospate of Soda. 1 oz. of i the crystals in 8 fl. oz.; make up to 10 fl. ! oz. Solution of Sulphate of Indigo. In- digo, 5 gr.; pure sulphuric acid, 1 fl. dr.; heat in a test-tube by a water bath for 1 hour; pour distilled water, 10 fl. oz., and, after subsidence, decant the clear into a stoppered bottle. j Solution of Sulphate of Ieon. Granu- lated sulphate of iron, 10 gr., in boiling distilled water, 1 fl. oz. Should be recently prepared. Solution of Sulphate of Lime. Plaster of Paris, i oz.; distilled water, 2 fl. oz.; rub together for a few minutes in a porcelain mor- tar; shake the mixture with 18 fl. oz. in a pint bottle, and, after subsidence. Alter. Solution of Taetaeic Acid. 1 oz. of the crystals in 8 fl. oz.; when dissolved, add rec- tified spirit, 2 fl. oz. Solution of Teechloeide of Gold. Ni- tric acid, 1 fl. oz.; hydrochloric acid, 6 fl. oz.; distilled water, 4 fl. oz.; mix; place the mix- ture in a flask with fine gold (reduced by rolling to a thin lamina), 60 gr.; digest until dis- solved ; add hydrochloric acid, 1 fl. oz.; evapo- rate at a heat not exceeding 212°, until acid vapours cease to be disengaged; dissolve resi- due (terchloride of gold) in 5 fl. oz. Test Solutions for Volumetric Analysis. These are placed together in the Appen- dix (B. III). Before being used, volumetric solutions should be shaken, in order that they may be throughout of uniform strength. They should be preserved in stoppered bottles. The tube used with these solutions is an alkalimetee, which, when filled to 0, holds 1000 grains of distilled water at 60°, and is divided into 100 parts of equal capacity. (The instrument figured on page 101 is the best form of alkalimeter for pharmaceutical pur- poses.) VoLUMETEic Solution of Bicheomate OF Potash. Pure bichromate of potash, 129 gr.; distilled water, 1 pint; dissolve. The quantity of this solution which fills the vo- lumetric tube to 0 contains of an equivalent, in grains, of bichromate of potash (K0,2Cr03= 147’5), and, when added to a solution of a pro- tosalt of iron, acidulated with hydrochloric acid, is capable of converting ^ of 6 equiva- lents of iron (or 16’8 grains) from the state of a protosalt to that of a persalt. The conver- sion is known to be complete when a minute drop of the iron solution, placed in contact with a drop of the solution of ferridcyanide of potassium on a white plate, ceases to strike with it a blue colour. VoLUMETEic Solution of Hyposulphite OF Soda. Dissolve 260 gr. of the crystallized salt in distilled water, 1 pint, and drop the solution cautiously from the volumetric tube into 100 measures of the volumetric solution of iodine (see below), until the brown colour of the iodine is just discharged. Note the num- ber of measures (n) which have been used to produce this effect; and, having then taken 16 fl. oz. of the same solution, augment this quantity by the addition of distilled water until it amounts to—— fl. oz. If, for N example, n = 96, the 16 fl. oz. of the hypo- sulphite solution should be diluted with dis- tilled water, so as to become —— = 16’66 fl. 96 oz. The solution is used for estimating free iodine, an object which it accomplishes by forming, with the iodine, iodide of sodium and tetrathionate of soda. 100 measures include y'5 of 2 equivalents of hyposulphite, in grains, and therefore correspond with 12‘7 gr. of iodine. VOLUMETEIC Solution of Iodine. Pure iodine (in powder), 111*125 gr.; iodide of po- tassium, 150 gr.; distilled water, 18 fl. oz.; agitate in a bottle until the solution is com- plete, then add distilled water, q. s. to make exactly 1 pint. Employed for determining the amount of sulphuretted hydrogen or of a metallic sulphuret in a fluid, but chiefly for the estimation of sulphurous and arsenious acids. It is dropped from the volumetric tube into the liquid to be tested until free iodine begins to appear in the solution. 100 mea- sures include 12*7 gr. (y'jj of an equiv.) of iodine, and therefore correspond to 1*7 gr. sulphuretted hydrogen; 3*2, sulphurous acid; and 4*95, arsenious acid. VOLUMETEIC Solution of Niteate of SiLVEE. Nitrate of silver, 148*75 gr.; dis- tilled water, 1 pint; dissolve, and keep in an opaque stoppered bottle. 100 measures in-