643 FININGS. with a ball-cock, to keep the liquid in the filter con- stantly at the same height. The rapidity of filtration depends upon the—porosity of the filtering medium— the extent of the filtering surface — the relative vis- cidity or mobility of the fil- tering liquid—the pressure or force by which the liquid is impelled through the pores of the filler, and—the poros- ity and fineness of the sub- suspension. The most effi- cient filter is produced when the first two or ohe first three are so graduated to the others that the liquid filters rapidly, and is at the ?ame time rendered perfectly transparent. In the common method of filtration no oressure is exerted beyond that of the weight of jche column of the liquid resting on the filtering iinedium, hut in some cases additional pressure is employed. This is had recourse to for the purpose of producing a more rapid filtration, and more especially for filtering liquids that, from their viscidity, will scarcely pass through the pores of substances sufficiently fine to remove their impurities in the ordinary way. One of the easiest means of employing pres- \sure in filtration is to increase the height of the column of the filtering liquid. From the peculiar properties of fluids, by which they transmit pressure in an equal degree in all directions, this column need not he of equal diameter throughout, hut may be conveniently contracted to the size of a small pipe, as in the accompanying engraving, which _ represents a small filter on this construction at work, (a) is the funnel or reservoir of foul liquid \ (i) a small pipe conveying the liquid to the filter; (e c) a chamber, of which the upper portion (d) is filled with the descending liquid, and the lower portion (e) with the filtering media ; {i i) are screws by wdiich the bottom plate is fastened on, which plate is re- moved to clean out or renew the filter. For use, the cocks (^) and (1) are closed, and the liquid poured into the funnel (a) ; the cock (h) is next opened, and, in a few minutes after, the cock (/), when an uninterrupted flow of filtered liquor will be obtained as long as any fluid remains in the funnel (a) and the tube (b). The length of the tube determines the degree of pressure. Care must be taken first to pass the foul liquid through a hair sieve, or some other strainer, to remove any substance that might choke up the pipe (b). Another method of employing pressure in filtration is the withdrawal of the air from the receiving vessel, as in the vacuum filter, by which a pressure of about 14^ lb. to the square inch becomes exerted on the surface of the liquid by the atmosphere. The vacuum in the receiving vessel may be produced by the air-pump or by steam. A commoner method of applying pressure than either of those already mentioned is to condense the air over the surface of the liquid by means of a forcing-pump, or by steam. On the small scale, pressure may be applied to filtration by means of a syphon, whose shorter leg has its mouth blown into the shape of a bell or funnel, over which filtering paper or fine calico may be stretched. The application of pressure to filtration is not always advantageous, and beyond a certain limit is generally attended with inconvenience, if not with absolute disadvantage. It is found in practice that fluids under pressure take a longer period to run clear than without pressure, and that ruptures of the media more frequently take place in the former case, or with pressure, than in the latter. Great pressure is in no case advantageous. The filters already noticed are those that act by the fluid descending through the media; but in some cases the reverse method is em- ployed, and the liquid filters upwards, instead of downwards. These are called ascending filters, and are often preferable to those on the descending principle, because the suspended matters that require removal by filtration usually sink, and thus a portion escapes being forced into the pores of the filter. They are also more convenient when pressure is employed. Their construction depends upon the same principles as the common filter, and merely requires that the feeding vessel should be higher than the upper surface of the filtering media. Oils are conveniently filtered in this way, because of their little spe- cific gravity. By fixing a small filter on this principle into the head of a cask, and pouring in water through a funnel, whose d. Filter, neck reaches nearly to the bottom of the cask, the oil will float up and pass the filter, leaving the sediment behind. In cold weather, hot water may be employed. In some cases the upward and downward systems of filtration are united in the same apparatus, and this plan is advantageous where the space for operating is limited. For this purpose, it is merely necessary to connect the bottom of an ascending filter with the top of a descending one, or the reverse; the proper pressure being in either case applied. See Clarification, Defecation, Finings, &c. PI'NINGS. Substances used by publicans, brewers, wine-merchants, &c., to clarify their liquors. I Prep. 1. (BreWER^S FININGS; Cooper’S a. Cask of oil. b. Stand. c. Funnel for