DIGESTIVES—DIOSMINE. 520 most convenient source of lieat is the ^sand hath/ Digestion is often performed to soften and otherwise modify bodies that are to he distilled. In physiologij, the term is applied to the conversion of food into ‘ chyme/ or the process of dissolving aliment in the stomach, and preparing it for circulation and nourish- ment. In surgery, ‘digestion’ signifies a method of treating ulcers, wounds, &c. See j Digestia'es {Lelow). DIGESTIVES. In surgery, substances which, | when applied to wounds or tumours, induce or promote suppuration. All stimulating appli- cations are of this class. Heat is a most powerful digestive agent. The action of digestives is opposed to that of discutients, which repel or resolve tumours and indura- tions. DIGITA'LINE. Syn. Digita'lia. A vege- table principle discovered by M. Eoyer in Digitalis purpurea, or purple foxglove. Prep. 1. (Majendie.) Foxglove leaves (pow- dered), 1 lb., are digested in ether, first in the cold, and then heated under pressure; when the whole has again become cold, the liquor is filtered (rapidly), and the ether is distilled off in a water bath; the residuum is dissolved in water, the filtered solution treated with hydrated oxide of lead, the whole gently evaporated to dryness, and the dry residuum | again digested in hot ether; from this solu- tion the alkali is obtained, by evaporation and repeated resolutions, in a crystalline form. 2. (Homolle and Henry.) Foxglove leaves (carefully chued and powdered), 2| lb., are digested in rectified spirit, and the tincture expressed in a tincture press; the spirit is ' then distilled off, and the residual extract I treated with distilled water, ^ pint, acidulated | with about 2 fl. dr. of acetic acid, a gentle | heat being employed; some animal charcoal^ is then added, and the whole filtered; the filtrate is then diluted with water, and partly , neutralized with ammonia; a fresh-made, strong decoction of galls is next added; a ! copious precipitation of tannate of digitaline ensues; the precipitate is washed with water, i and mixed with a little alcohol, after which it' is triturated with litharge (in fine powder) and exposed to a gentle heat; the whole is now digested in alcohol, the tincture treated ; Avith animal charcoal, and evaporated; the ' dry residuum is, lastly, treated with cold suU ' phuric ether, which takes up some foreign j matter, and leaves the digitaline. 2 lb. 8 oz. of the dried leaves yield 140 to 150 gr. of the digitaline. I Prop., c^-c. White, inodorous, porous masses,' or small scales; it crystallizes with difficulty, ^ is intensely bitter, and excites violent sneezing . Avhen smelled to; dissolves freely in alcohol; scarcely soluble in cold ether; and takes 2000 parts of water for its solution; it is neither ! basic nor alkaline; concentrated colourless hydrochloric acid dissolves it, forming a cha- racteristic solution which passes from yellow to a fine green. (Homolle.) It is one of the most powerful of known poisons, being fully 100 times stronger than the powdered leaves of the dried plant. It is used in the same cases. Dose. to ^ gr.; either made into pills or dissolved in alcohol and formed into a mixture. Owing to the difficulty and uncer- tainty connected with dispensing such small quantities, it is now seldom employed in this country. DILL. Syn. Anethum (Ph. L. & E.), L. “The fruit (seed) of Anethum graveolens'' (Ph. L.), or garden dill. Dill is an aromatic stimulant and carminative. The Cossacks employ it as a condiment; and in this country it is frequently employed to heighten the relish of soups and pickles, especially cu- cumbers. Dill water is a favorite remedy of nurses to promote the secretion of milk, and to relieve the flatulence and griping of infants. Dose. Of the powder, 10 gr. to i dr., or more. Oil of dill (OLEUii AXExni) and dill water (aqua ais^ethi) are officinal in the pharmacopoeias. DIL'UEHTS. Sign. Dilgextia, L. Aqueous liquors; so named because they increase the fluid portion of the blood. 7'ea, barley-waler, water-gruel, and similar articles, are the most common diluents, after pure water. The copious use of diluents is recommended in all acute inflammatory diseases, not of a congestive character, and to promote the action of diu- retics and sudoi'ifics. DIN'NEE. The principal meal of the day, taken between noon and evening. “ The mid-day meal, the dinner of our forefathers, the second breakfast of the French, and the luncheon of fashionable life, is taken at one or two; and the evening meal, the supper of our forefathers, and the dinner of the present day, at six or seven.” “ Th^ lunch of fashion is a light and commendable dinner; the dinner of fashion is an early and moderate supper.” (Erasmus Wilson.) Dinner Pills. See Pills. DIOS'MA. Syn. Bookoo, Btiku; Folia BAEOSii^, F. DIOSM.I:, L.; Buenr (Ph. L.), Bucktj (Ph. E.), Diosma (Ph. L. 1836). “The leaves of Barosma serratifolia, B. crenulata, and B. crenataJ’ (Ph. L.) These species were all included by De Candolle in the genus Dios?na. Buchu is principally employed in chronic affections of the urino-genital organs, especially that of the mucous membrane of the bladder, attended with copious discharge of mucus. Dose. 20 gr. to ^ dr. of the powder, taken in wine; or made into an infusion or decoction. The officinal luchu leaves are “glabrous, glandular; either linear-lanceolate with small serrations, or ovato-oblong, obtuse, crenated, ovate or obovate, serrated.” (Ph. L.) Their odour somewhat resembles that of rue, and their taste is Avarm and mint-like. DIOS'HINE. A bitter extractive matter obtained by Brande from huchu leaves. It is