ANIMALCULE. 173 Nitrogenised. j Albumen, Alburaenose, Caseine, Chitine,' (/hondrine, Fibrine, Gelatine, Globuline, I HEematocrystalline, Hsematosine, Kreatine, Kreatinine, Proteine, Taurine, Urea, &c. From the various combinations and modi- fications of these few principles, result all the different solids and fluids that enter into the composition of animal bodies. Woven together and arranged or distributed by vital power— the special gift of a wonder-working and beauty-loving deity—they form the numerous tissues of which our frames are composed, and, instinct with life, become endowed with the I faculty of performing all the functions inse- f j parable from its maintenance, and necessary for their continual reparation. The number of distinct species of animals at present existing on the face of the earth, has been estimated at considerably above half a million. They are thus distributed by Swain- son :— I. Vertebrate animals. II. Anulose animals. III. Molluscs or Soft animals. Total . 577,6002 rQuadrupeds . . 1,200 J Birds .... 6,800 ) Reptiles & Amphibia . 1,500 b Fishes . . . . 8,000 r Insects (apterous and ) winged) . . 550,000 I Worms bother classes ["Radiata (starfishes, &c.) J Polypes, Corals, &c. 1 Naked Molluscs . I Testacea (shell-fish) s} 2.500 1,000 1.500 600 4.500 The proportion which the fluids bears to the solids forming the animal body, is as about 9 to 1. According to Chaussier, a body weighing 120 lb. was found, after some days of careful desiccation, to weigh only 12 Ib.^ ■ Animal. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Anima'lis, L.; Animalisch, Thieeisch, Ger. In physiology, chemistry, 8fc., living; of or belonging to life or to an animal; obtained from or produced by animals. See Acids, Ageicitlture, Aie, I Animal {above). Antiseptics, Charcoal, Do- * Found only in insects. (See the word.) » * This number, owing to recent discoveries and, par- ticularly, to the redistribution and subdivision of many of the genera and species, might now be probably increased by about one per cent. * That is—10| gal. of water to 13 Ih. of dry solid matter —a result almost startling. Fat. Non-nitrogenised. ' Butyrine, Butyric acid. Oleine, Oleic acid. Margarine, Margaric acid, Stearine, Stearic acid, Glycerine, &c. Lactic acid. Pepsin, Sugar of milk. Grape sugar, &c. MESTICATED, FOOD, HeAT, LiEE, LIVE-STOCK, Magnetism, Nutrition, Oil, Taxidermy, &c. (also below.) Animal Flow'er. See Anemone, Flowers, &c. Animal Func'tions. Syn. Functio'nes ani- ma'les, L. In physiology, the peculiar powers or faculties possessed by animal bodies, and by which their various parts are formed and sus- tained. The principal are—assimilation or nu- trition, circulation, digestion, excretion, respira- tion, reproduction, and secretion (which see). Animal King'dom. Syn. Reg'num anima'le, L.; Regne animal, Fr.; DAS Thier-reich, Ger. That division of created things which includes animated beings. See Zoology. Animal Sub'stances. Syn. Mate"eia ani- ma'lis, L. Animal substances are recognised as organic principles by becoming carbonised by heat J and those that contain nitrogen, by ra- pidly passing into a state of putrefaction when exposed to the air and moisture, and by yield- ing ammonia when heated with caustic potassa or quicklime, or when submitted to destructive distillation. See the respective names; also Animal {above). Clothing, Materia Medica, . Putrefaction, &c. ANIMAL'CULE (-kule). [Eng., Fr.; pi, animal'cules.] Syn. Animal'culum (pi., ani~ maVcula'^), L.; Thieechen, Ger. In zoology and physiology, a microscopic animal, or one so extremely small, that it is either invisible, or not distinctly discernible, without the aid of a lens or microscope; more especially one that is not perceptible to the naked eye. “ A mite was anciently thought the limit of littleness; but there are animals 27,000,000 of times smaller than a mite.’* A thousand millions of some of the animalcula found in common water are said to be collectively of less bulk than a single grain of sand; yet their numbers are so prodigious as sometimes to give the fluid they inhabit a pale red or yellow tinge. The milt * Aniraalcul* for the plural, sometimes heard and met with, is a barbarism; yet one not wholly confined to the vulgar, for we find it in Vincent’s edition of Haydn’s admirable “Diet, of Dates,” not merely twice, or oftener, in the Text, but as a ‘ title-word;’ and also in some other works where we might least expect it.