GOUTTES AMERES—GRAPES. 710 the profession some years sioce, by Drs. Babington and Rees, is lemon juice. The results of the trials of this substance at St. Thomas’s and Guy’s Hospitals, as detailed by Dr. Babiugton in the ‘Lancet,’ seemed to place its efficacy beyond doubt, but experience has proved that the lemon-juice treatment is not to be depended on" The dose proposed by Dr. O. Rees, who originated this treatment, was 2 or 3 fl. oz., twice or thrice a day, but the patients themselves often increased it to several times this quantity. To ensure the efficacy of lemon juice, it must be expressed from the fruit into the glass shortly before being taken. That purchased at the shops is generally stale and disagreeable, and is often worse than useless. In some cases it is advisable to take the juice undiluted, but the more common practice is to mix it with about an equal quantity of water. The only unpleasant symptoms that follow such large doses are those common to an equal bulk of any other cold liquid. In one instance, however, a patient of Dr. Babington’s expe- rienced fits of shivering and faintness, and was compelled to reduce the dose. See Rheu- matism, CoLCHicuM, Deaught (Anti-arthri- tic), Lemon Juice, Vinegae of Colchicum, Wine of Colchicum, &c. Gout Cor'dial. Prep. Rhubarb, senna,'cori- ander seed, sweet-fennel seed, and cochineal, of each, 2 oz.; liquorice root and saffron, of each, 1 oz.; raisins, 2\ lb.; rectified spirit of wine, 2 gall.; digest for 14 days, press, and filter. Used in gout and rheumatism. Aromatic and slightly laxative. Bose. 1 to 3 table-spoonfuls. Gout Med'icine. (Duncan’s.) A mixture of wine of colchicum, wine of opium, and tincture of saffron. Gout Rem'edy. (Alexander’s.) According to Dr. Paris, this contains—aniseed, cumin seed, ginger, hermodactyls, pepper, and scam- mony. Gout Specific. (Murray’s.) A mixture of iodide of potassium, sulphate of magnesia, and wine of colchicum, disguised with an aromatic tincture. GOUTTES AMERES. [Fr.] See Deops (Bitter). GRAD'UATOR. See Vinegae. GRAETTNG COM'POST. Clay tempered with water, to which a little linseed oil is sometimes added. Used to cover the joint formed by the scion and stock in grafting. GRAINS OF PAR'ADISE. Syn. Guinea GEAINS, Malaguetta peppee. The seeds of the Amomum melaguetta. Grains of paradise are hot, acrid, and aromatic, and in general properties similar to the other peppers. In some parts of the world they are used as a condiment. They are principally employed in these countries to impart a false strength to wine, beer, spirits, and vinegar. GRANIL'LA. A small inferior variety of cochineal (which see). GRANULA'TION. The act or process of forming, or breaking into, grains or small masses. The granulation of medicines has of late years received considerable attention from both foreign and British pharmaceutists. In France, granulated powders (poude^S geanu- LEEs) are coming into general use in place of impalpable powders, the most unpleasant of all forms of medicine. The French process consists in enveloping the particles of medi- cines in syrup by means of heat and constant stirring. Mr. Banner, of Liverpool, has lately introduced a method of granulating medicines far preferable to that of the French pharma- ceutists. The powder to be granulated is placed in a mortar, and mucilage of gum arabic (L. Ph. strength) is gradually added until a crumbly mass is made; this is then rubbed through a wire sieve (about 12 meshes to the inch), and the granules produced are spread out on paper, and left to dry spontaneously, or they are placed in a copper pan, and kept in constant motion over a stove until dry; when perfectly dry, they are placed in a mortar, and sufficient quantity of strong tinc- ture of tolu (3 dr. to 1 oz.) is added to them, until by constant stirring they all appear glossy and shining; they are then dried again by a gentle heat, being kept in constant mo- tion. The granules thus formed keep well, are tasteless, and are much more elegant and agreeable preparations than pills or ordinary powders.^ Many saline substances are granu- lated by the simple process of dissolving the salt in water, and evaporating to dryness with constant stirring. Metals are granulated (reduced to drops, grains, or coarse powder) by pouring them, in the melted state, into water. In many cases they are allowed to run through the holes of a species of colander or sieve to produce minute division; and in order to render the drops spherical, they are allowed to fall from a sufficient height to permit of their ac- quiring the solid state before striking the water. Lead shot is made in this way. Shot towers are often upwards of 100 feet in height. See Coffee, Gunfowdee, Powdee, Zinc, &c. GRAPES. Syn. Uv^, L. The fruit of Viiis vinifera, or the common grape vine. Ripe grapes are cooling and antiseptic, and in large quantities diuretic and laxative. They are very useful in bilious alfections and dys- pepsia, and in all febrile, putrid, and inflam- matory complaints. The skin and seed, which are indigestible, should be rejected. “ Grapes which contain a large quantity of sugar are, if taken without the husks, the safest and most nutritive of summer fruits.” (Cullen.) “The subjects of pulmonary affections, who pass the summer in Switzerland, may try the effects of a course of grapes, ‘ cure de raisins,* a remedy held in high estimation in several parts of the Continent.” (Sir J. Clark.) ^ See "Fharm. Journal^' for May, 1863.