928 MORTIFICATION—MOSSES. The said liquor of flints likewise gives chalk and plaster a stony hardness, by merely soak- ing them in it after they are cut or moulded to a proper shape. On exposure to the air, they get progressively indurated. Superficial hardness may be readily procured by washing over the surface of chalk, &c., with liquor of fiints, by means of a brush. This method affords an easy and elegamt method of giving a stony crust to the plastered walls and ceilings \ of apartments; as also to statues and busts, cast in gypsum mixed with chalk.” Under Prof. Kuhlman’s patent, dated April, 184d, “ instead of calcining the limestone with clay and sand alone, as has been hitherto com- monly practised, this inventor introduces a small quantity of soda, or, preferably, potash, in the state of sulphate, carbonate, or muriate; salts susceptible of forming silicates when the earthy mixture is calcined. The alkaline salt, \ equal in weight to about l-5th that of the i lime, is introduced in solution among the' earths.” (Ure). ! The hardening of the common mortars and | cements is in a great measure due to the gra- ' dual absorption of carbonic acid; but even | after a very great length of time, this con- ! version into carbonate is not complete. Good | mortar, under favourable circumstances, ac-1 quires extreme hardness by age. Attempts have been made at various times to introduce the use of bituminous cements | into this country, and thus to restore both to j land and submarine architecture a valuable j material which has now lain neglected for a | period of fully 30 centuries; but, unfortu-j nately, owing to the interest of our great j building and engineering firms lying in another direction, these attempts have been hitherto unsuccessful. See Asphaltum, Cement, Lime, &c. MORTIFICA'TION. Syn. Gangeene ; Gan- GRENA, Moetieicatio, L. Local death; the loss of vitality in one part of the animal body, whilst the rest continues living. “ The terms gangrene and mortification are often used sy- nonymously ; but gangrene properly signifies the state which immediately precedes morti- fication, while the complete mortification, or absolute death of a part, is called sphacelus. A part which has passed into the state of sphacelus is called a slough. When a part becomes gangrenous, it loses its natural heat and sensibility, it becomes livid, and vesica- tions appear on its surface. Although this state generally leads to that of complete mor- tification, a certain degree of vitality remains, | and, in some rare instances, the circulation j is re-established, and the part restored to I health. When sphacelus has taken place, j the part becomes black and putrid, it is en- j tirely dead and disorganized, and the living i system must either cast it off or sink from the effects of the absorption of putrid matter.” The common causes of mortification are— inflammation (especially the erysipelatous); interrupted circulation; severe mechanical in- jury; exposure to intense cold (gelatio) ; the use of poisonous food, &c.; specific contagion; action of chemical agents (heat, escharotics, &c.). The common symptoms of mortification su- pervening on inflammation are—loss of pain, and sudden and overwhelming depression of the vital powers; diminution of the fever ; small, sinking pulse; hiccough, delirium, cold sweat, and fainting, which precedes death. The treatment, in the early or inflammatory stage of this disease, when the pulse is strong and quick, is antiphlogistic or depletive, more especially in young and vigorous subjects ; in the second stage, when the symptomatic fever has given way to debility, and the pulse is sunk and feeble, stimulants and tonics, with strong soups, wine, &c., are to be had recourse to. ‘‘Bark, port wine, and opium, have been the constitutional remedies most generally employed in the cure of mortification; but the whole class of stimulants may be occasionally resorted to with more or less advantage,” after once the inflammatory symptoms have sub- sided. During the first stage, emollient poul- tices, mixed with yeast, or freshly burnt char- coal, should be applied hot, and renewed every 3 or 4 hours; and between the applications the parts should be well bathed with hot fomentations of poppies, henbane, or opium. In the second stage, stimulating liniments, as those of camphorated spirit, vinegar, turpen- tine, &c., are used. In gangrene of the ex- tremities, amputation is often necessary. See Hospital Gangrene, &c. MOSAIC GOLD. See Brass, Gold, &c. MOS'SES. Syn. Musci, L. Several vege- tables of the natural orders Jlgce, Fungi, Li- chenes, and Musci, commonly pass under this name with the vulgar. Of these the following are the principal:— Bog moss {Sphagnum palustre). Very re- tentive of moisture. Used to pack up plants for exportation. Ceylon moss {Gracilaria Candida). Very nutritive; made into a decoction or jelly, which is highly esteemed as an article of diet for invalids and children, more especially for those suflTering under affections of the mucous membranes or phthisis. Club moss {Lycopodium clavatum). Sec Lycopodium. Corsican moss, C. worm m. {Gracilaria Helminthocorton). Dose. ^ to 2 dr., in pow- der, mixed up with sugar ; as a vermifuge. Cup moss, C. lichen {Cladonia pyxidata). Astringent and febrifuge. A cupful of the decoction, taken warm, generally proves gently emetic. Used in hooping cough, &c. Fir club moss {Lycopodium Selago). Vio- lently emetic and purgative. It is also irri- tant and narcotic. Iceland moss {Cetraria Islandica). Highly nutritious and easy of digestion. The decoc- tion is a favourite alimentary substance in