I ! GILDING. 689 a brush. Gold leaf will adhere to leather without the use of mastic, hut not so firmly as when it is employed. The edges of the leaves of books and paper are first cut perfectly smooth, and then washed over with a solution of isinglass in weak spirit, or with a varnish made of Armenian bole, 4 parts, and powdered sugar-candy, 1 part, mixed up to a proper consistence with strained white egg. The coating is allowed to dry, and is I then smoothed with a wet rag, after which the (gold leaf is applied and polished with the bur- nisher. Bkass buttons, formerly so much in de- mand, are covered by a rough species of wash gilding. The buttons are polished in the lathe, and thrown into a pan with a little amalgam of gold, and as much aquafortis diluted with water as will wet them all over. Here they are well stirred up, until they assume a sil- very appearance, when they are washed with i clean water. They are then submitted to a sufficient heat in a suitable apparatus, until the mercury is volatilized. The buttons are next cooled, and well tossed and rubbed about with a painter’s brush; and are, lastly, bur- nished by washing them well with beer or ale grounds. Twelve dozen (1 gross) of buttons, of 1 inch i in diameter, may be perfectly gilded on both I sides with only 5 gr. of gold. By an Act of Parliament, which is still unrepealed, this is t the smallest quantity of gold permitted to be > used for a gross of buttons of the above size. Glass, porcelain, and earthenware, are ' gilded by blending powdered gold with gum- water and a little borax, and applying the mix- ture by means of a camel-hair pencil; the ; article is then heated in an oven or furnace, ^by which means the gum is burnt, and the borax, vitrifying, cements the gold to the sur- face. It is afterwards polished with a bur- I nisher. Names, dates, or ‘AXiy fancy device, may I thus be permanently and easily fixed on glass, i china, earthenware, &c. Japanned work is gilded by the method ; explained as * Japanner’s gilding’ {above'). Leather is gilded in the same way as the covers of books. (See above.') For common ' work, silver leaf, or even tin foil, is applied to the surface, previously covered with size or white of egg, and after being burnished down and dried, is washed over with gold-coloured lacquer. The LETTERS of sign-boards and the orna- t mental gilding for out-door work are done by first covering the design with yellow paint, ' then with oil gold-size, and when this is nearly , dry applying the leaf-gold, observing to shield it properly from the wind, lest it be blown away or become crumpled before being pro- perly attached. The work is, lastly, varnished. Polished metals may be gilded by one or I other of the methods already noticed. Ar- ticles in silver, copper, brass, and bronze, are usually coated by the process of wash or water I gilding; or, directly, by the application of gold leaf, as follows:—The ‘piece’ or article is heated to a bluish tint, and gold leaf pressed gently and carefully on it with the burnisher; heat is again applied, and the process repeated with fresh leaves of gold until the gilding has acquired the proper thickness and tone. The surface is lastly polished with the burnisher, or is ‘coloured’ in the usual manner at the ‘ stove.’ This succeeds with iron, steel, silver, copper and its alloys, &c. Another method for polished articles in iron and steel, which, how- ever, is less durable than the preceding, is to apply an ethereal solution of gold to the sur- face with a camel-hair pencil. The ether flies off and leaves the surface coated with gold, which is then polished as before. In this way, any fancy device or writing may be executed on steel or iron with extreme facility. Silks, satins, woollens, ivory, bone, &c., may be readily gilded by immersing them in a solution of neutral terchloride of gold (1 of the salt, and 3 to 6 of water), and then ex- posing them to the action of hydrogen gas. The latter part of the process may readily be performed by pouring some dilute sulphuric acid on zinc or iron filings, in a wide-mouthed bottle, and placing it under a jar or similar vessel, inverted, at the top of which the arti- cles to be gilded are suspended. Flowers or other ^ornamental designs maybe produced by painting them on the surface with a camel- hair pencil dipped in the solution. The de- sign, after a few minutes’ exposure to the hydrogen, shines with all the splendour of the purest gold, and will not tarnish on exposure to the air, or in washing. Gilded thread or gold thread is merely a thread of yellow silk covered with a very thin flatted wire of gold, by means of a re- volving wheel. Wire {copper, silver, or brass) is occasionally gilded, in coils, by a similar process to that adopted for buttons ; but more frequently as follows :—Rods (usually of silver) are covered with gold foil of a thickness proportionate to the quality of the intended v/ire, and the compound bar is then drawn into wire, in the usual way. 100 gr. of gold was formerly the lowest legal quantity that could be employed for 1 lb. of silver. Patents.—Among the varieties of chemical gilding may be mentioned— 1. (Elkington’s patent—German gilding. Bonnet’s gilding process.) The articles to be gilded, after being perfectly cleaned from scale or grease, and receiving a proper ‘/ace,’ are suspended, by means of wires, in the ‘gilding liquid^ {boiling hot), and moved about therein for a period varying from a few seconds to a minute, or longer; the precise time required depending on the newness and strength of the liquid. When sufficiently gilded, the articles are withdrawn from the ‘solution of gold,’ washed in clean water, and dried; after which they undergo the usual operation of ‘ colouring,* 44