MASTICOT—MATCHES. 888 whilst in some other parts of the world pre- j parations of the cacao are employed. As COS- 3IETIC3, orris root, cassia, cinnamon, and sandal wood, are frequently chewed to scent the breath. Among medicinals, mastic and myrrh arc frequently chewed to strengthen the teeth and gums; iwllitory, to relieve the toothache; and rhubarb, ginger, and gentian, to relieve dyspepsia and promote the appetite. Prep. 1. (Augustin.) Mastic, pellitory (both in powder), and white wax, of each, 1 dr.; mixed by heat and divided into 6 balls. In toothache, loose teeth, &c. 2. (W. Cooley.) Mastic, mxjrrh, and white wax, of each, 1 part; rhubarb, ginger, and extract of gentian, of each, 2 parts j beaten up with tincture of tolu, q. s., and divided into boluses or lozenges of 10 gr. each. One or two to be chew’ed an hour before dinner j in dyspepsia, defective appetite, &c. 3. (Quincy.) Mastic, 3 oz.; pellitory and stavesacre seed, of each, 2 dr.; cubebs and nut- megs, of each, 1 dr.; angelica root, ^ dr.; melted wax, q. s. to inahe it into small balls. As a stimulant to the gums, and in toothache. 4. Opium, ginger, rhubarb, mastic, pellitory of Spain, and orris root, of each, 1 dr.; melted spermaceti, q. s. to mix; for 6-gr. pills. As the last, and in toothache and painful gums. MAS'TICOT. See Massicot. MATCHES (Cooper’s). Syn. Sweetening MATCHES. These are made by dipping strips of coarse linen or canvas into melted brimstone. For use, the brimstone on one of them is set on fire, and the match is then at once sus- pended in the cask, and the bung loosely set in its place. After the lapse of 2 or 3 hours the match is removed, and the cask filled with liquor. Some persons pour a gallon or two of the liquor into the cask before ‘matching’ it. The object is to allay excessive fermentation. The operation is commonly adopted in the Western Counties for cider intended for ship- ment, or other long exposure during transport. It is also occasionally employed for inferior and ‘doctored’ wines. MATCHES (Instantaneous Light). Of these there are several varieties, of which the one best known, and most extensively used, is the commton phosphorus match, known as the ‘ CON- GEEVE ’ or ‘ LUCiFEE.’i We need not describe the ‘ CHEMICAL MATCHES,’ ‘ PHOSPHOEHS BOT- TLES,’ and ‘PEOMETHEANS,’ in use during the early part of the present century, as these are quite obsolete. We will simply sketch the general process of manufacture now in use for phosphorus matches:— 1 The original ‘lucivers,’ or ‘ light-bearing BATCHES,’ invented in 1826, consisted of strips of paste- board, or Hat splints of wood, tipped first with sulphur, and tiien with a mixture of sniphuret of antimony and chlorate of potassa, and were ignited by drawing them liriskly through folded glass-paper. They required a con- siderable effort to ignite them, and the composition was apt to be torn off by the violence of the friction. The term ‘ lucifer’ having become familiar, was applied to the simpler and more effective match afterwards introduced imder the names of ‘ cokgreve’ and ‘ congheve light.’ 1 Manuf. The wooden splints are cut by steam machinery from the very best quality of pine planics, perfectly desiccated at a temperature of 400° Fahr. English splints are of two sizes—‘large’ and ‘minnikins’; the former 2^ inches long, and the latter somewhat shorter. In the manufacture double-lengths are used, so that each splint may be coated with the igniting composition at both ends, and then cut asunder in the middle to form two matches. In England the splints are usually cut square in form, but in Germany they are cylindrical, being prepared by forcing the wood through circular holes in a steel plate. The ends of the double splints having been slightly charred by contact Avith a red- hot plate, are coated Avith sulphur by dipping them to the requisite depth in the melted ma- terial. In some cases the ends are saturated Avith melted tvax or paraffin instead of sul- phur. The splints are then arranged in a frame between grooved boards in such a man- ner that the prepared ends project on each side of the frame. These projecting ends arc then tipped Avith the phosphorous composition, Avliich is spread to a uniform depth of about I inch on a smooth slab of stone, kept Avarm by means of steam beneath. When partially dry, the tipped splints are taken from the frames, cut through the middle, and placed in heaps of 100, ready for ‘ boxing.’ The different compositions for tipping the matches in use in different countries and fac- tories all consist essentially of emulsions of phosiihorus in a solution of glue or gum, Avith or without other matters for increasing the combustibility, for colouring, &c. In England the composition contains a consider- able quantity of chlorate of potassa, which imparts a snapping and flaming quality to the matches tipped with it, and but little phos- phorus, on account of the moisture of the climate. In Germany the proportion of phos- phorus used is much larger, and nitre, or some metallic peroxide, replaces chlorate of potassa. The German matches light quietly, Avith a mild lambent flame, and are injured quickly by damp, in consequence of the oxida- tion of the phosphorus into phosphoric acid, Avhich rapidly attracts moisture. The folioav- ing formulm have been carefully selected: — 1. (English.) Fine glue, 2 parts, broken into small pieces, and soaked in waiter till quite soft, is added to water, 4 parts, and heated by means of a Avater bath until it is quite fluid, and at a temperature of 200° to 212° Fahr. The vessel is then removed from the Are, and phosphorus, 1^ to 2 parts, is gra- dually added, the mixture being agitated briskl}'- and continually with a ‘ stirrer’ having Avooden pegs or bristles projecting at its loAver end. When a uniform emulsion is obtained, chlorate of potassa, 4 to 5 jiarts, ])owdered glass, 3 to 4 parts, and red lead, smalt, or other colouring matter, a sufficient quantity (all in a state of very fine poAvder) are added, one at a