936 NERVOUSNESS—NICKEL. L. A low continued fever, of a typhoid cha- racter (typhus mitioe), in which nervous derangement of sensorial debility are leading symptoms. The treatment consists in allaying nervous irritation, and supporting the strength of the patient. See Typhus. NERVOUSNESS. The indescribable de- rangement of health, and the complication of disagreeable sensations which are popularly described under this name, quite as much de- serve the serious attention of both patient and physician as any other affection to which the human frame is liable. Although, in itself, not a definite disease, it is indicative of the vital system being out of order, that its energies are failing or overtasked, and that the functions of some of its members or organs are languidly or imperfectly performed. This condition, if not removed, Avill gradually increase into active disorganization and disease, if it he not prematurely cut short by the advent of some more serious malady, to which its existence has rendered the body peculiarly susceptible. The treatment of nervousness consists mainly in restoring the healthy action of the stomach and bowels, and in the use of proper exercise, especially in the open air. The stomach should not be overloaded with indigestible food, and the bowels should he occasionally relieved by the use of some mild aperient. Mental, as well as bodily relaxation, should he sought, and the pleasures, without the vices of society, should he indulged in as discretion and incli- nation may direct. Ahernethy’s injunction to a nervous and dyspeptic lady, “Dismiss your servants, madam, and make your own beds,'’ should he recollected by all, and may he taken as a proof of the importance that eminent surgeon attached to exercise. See Exeecise, Flatulence, Hypochonheiasis, Hysteeics, Indigestion, &c. NET'TLE RASH. See Rashes. NEURAL'GIA. Literally, pain in a nerve. “Various parts of the body are liable to be affected with excruciating pain, which is quite independent of any inflammation of the part, and which may often be traced in the course of the nerves.” These affections constitute neuralgia. One of the most distressing forms of this disease is FACIAL neuealgia or tic DOULOUEEUX (neuealgia facialis), which, when it assumes a marked intermittent cha- racter, is popularly known as ^FACE ague.’ Sometimes it attacks the nerves of the female breast; or those of the hand, feet, hip, or loins, in which cases it is often confounded with acute rheumatism of those parts. The treatment, when neuralgia is symp- tomatic of any other affection, must be directed to the primary disease. When it is idiopathic, or an independent affection, powerful tonic medicines and powerful local counter-irritation are generally found the most successful reme- dies. Of tonics, carbonate of iron and bark (both in very large doses) are generally pre- ferred ; the last, more particularly when the affection is of an intermittent kind. As a counter-irritant, caustic ammonia has been much relied on. When all other means fail, a current of mild streaming electricity through the part will often give immediate relief. NEUTRALIZATION. The admixture of an alkali or base with an acid in such propor- tions that neither shall predominate. A neutral compound neither turns turmeric x^aper brown nor litmus paper red. NICKEL. Sijn. Nickelium, L. A metal obtained from kupfeenickel, a native arsenide of nickel found in Westphalia; also from NICKEL-SPEISS, an impure arsenio-sulphide of nickel left after the manufacture of cobalt BLUE from its ores. Prep. The powdered ore is roasted first by itself, and next with charcoal powder, until all the arsenic is expelled, and a garlic odour ceases to be evolved; the residuum is mixed with sulphur, 3 parts, and potassa, 1 part, and the compound is melted in a crucible with a gentle heat; the fused mass, when cold, is reduced to j)owder, edulcorated with water, dissolved in sulphuric acid mixed with a little nitric acid, and j)recix)itated with carbonate of potassa; the precipitate (caebonate of nickel) is washed, dried, mixed with powdered charcoal, and, lastly, reduced by the heat of a powerful furnace. When nickel predominates in the ore, after the arsenic, iron, and copper have been sepa- rated, ammonia is digested in the mixed oxides of cobalt and nickel, and the resulting blue solution, after dilution with boiled pure water, is treated with caustic potassa until the colour disappears, when the whole is put into an air- tight vessel, and set it aside for some time. The powder (hydeated oxide of nickel) which subsides, after edulcoration, is mixed with charcoal, and reduced by fusion in a crucible containing some crown glass. On the small scale, for chemical purposes, pure nickel is best obtained by moderately heating oxalate of nickel in a covered crucible lined with charcoal. Prop. White; hard ; malleable; magnetic; capable of receiving the lustre of silver; sp. gr., when hammered, about 8‘82; fusi- bility between that of manganese and iron; it is not oxidized in the air; and is little attacked by dilute acids unless when nitric acid is x>resent; this last acid dissolves it freely. With the acids, &c., it forms numerous compounds, most of which may be prepared by the direct solution of the carbonate. Mr. Lewis Thompson states that “commercial nickel is a very impure article, and bears no more relation to pure nickel than brass or bell-metal does to copper.” A specimen of the metal reduced from the pure oxide in a current of hydrogen was beautifuUy white and silvery ; its sp. gr. was 8’575, and it was almost as soft as copper. Tests. The salts of nickel in the anhydrous