988 OINTMENT. manner adopted for medicated oils, and ex- plained at page 962. The precautions to be used in the choice of lard are noticed at page 882. Lard is included in the Materia Medica of the London College. In the last Ph. D. lard for medicinal use (adeps striLLUS PR^PAEATUS—Ph. D.) is ordered to be prepared by melting it in twice its weight of boiling water, stirring it constantly for some time, then setting the mixture aside to cool; and, lastly, separating the fat when it has solidified. Ointments are best preserved by keeping them in salt-glazed earthen or stoneware jars, covered with tin foil, in a cool situation. The accession of rancidity in ointments and other unctuous preparations may be greatly retarded, if not wholly prevented, by pre- viously dissolving in the fat about 2g of gum- henzoin, in fine powder, or a rather less quan- tity of benzoic acid, by the aid of heat. This addition renders the ointment peculiarly sooth- ing to irritable or highly sensitive skins. Poplar buds act in a similar manner. *** The formulae for all the more useful and generally employed ointments are given below. Those not included in the list may be prepared of the proper strength for all ordinary purposes, by combining about 12 to 16 times the medium dose of the particular medicinal with 1 oz. of lard or simple ointment. For substances which possess little activity, ^ to 1 dr. per oz., or even more, may be taken. See Cerate, Fat, &c. Ointment of Ac'etate of Lead. Syn. Un- GUENTUM PLUMBI ACETATIS (Ph. E. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. E.) Acetate of lead, in fine powder, 1 oz.; simple ointment, 20 oz.; mix them thoroughly (by trituration). 2. (Ph. D.) ‘ Ointment of white wax’ 1 lb.; melt by a gentle heat, then add, gradually, of acetate of lead, in very fine powder, 1 oz., and stir the mixture until it concretes. Obs. A useful cooling, astringent, and desic- cative ointment. For the formula of Ph. L., see Cerate. Ace'tic Ointment. See Vinegar Ointment. Ointment of Ac'onite. Syn. Unguentum ACONiTi, L. Prep. 1. (Dr. Turnbull.) Al- coholic extract of aconite, 1 part; lard, 2 parts; carefully triturated together. In neuralgia, &c. 2. (Ammoniated; Unguentum aconiti AMMONIATUM—Turnbull.) Ammoniated ex- tract of aconite, 1 part; lard, 3 parts. In neuralgia, paralysis, old rheumatic affections, &c. The use of the above preparations of aconite requires the greatest caution. They are intended as substitutes for ointment op aconitine, a still more dangerous prepara- tion. Ointment of Aconitine. Syn. Unguentum ACONITINE, L. Prep. 1. (Dr. Garrod.) Pure aconitine, 1 gr.; lard, 1 dr.; mix by careful trituration. 2. (Dr. Turnbull.) Aconitine, 2 gr.; rec- tified spirit, 6 or 7 drops; triturate together, then add of lard, I dr., and mix well. Use, ^c. As a topical benumber in neu- ralgic affections, rheumatic pains, &c. Its application generally occasions considerable tingling, and sometimes redness of the part to which it is applied, followed by temporary loss of sensation in the skin and the cessation of the pain. For slight cases Dr. Paris for- merly employed only 1 gr. to the oz. Owing to the intensely poisonous nature of aconitine, this ointment must be both prepared and used with great caution, and must never be applied to an abraded surface. It is seldom employed, owing to its extreme costliness. See Aconi- tine, and above. A'gue Ointment. See Anti-periodic Oint- ment. Albinolo’s Ointment. See Patent Medi- cines. Al'kaline Ointment. Syn. Unguentum ALKALINUM, L. Prep. 1. (Biett.) Car- bonate of soda, 2 dr.; fresh-slaked lime, 1 dr.; powdered opium, 2 gr.; lard, 2 oz.; mix by trituration. In prurigo, ring-worm, and some other cutaneous affections. 2. (Cazenave.) Carbonate of potassa, 1 dr.; lard, 1 oz. In psoriasis, lepra, and scorbutic eruptions. 3. (Devergie.)—a. From carbonate (not ses- quicarbonate) of soda, 10 to 15 gr.; lard, 1 oz. In lichen. b. From carbonate of soda, 20 to 30 gr.; lard, 1 oz. In ichthyosis, lepra, psoriasis, and some other scaly skin diseases. c. From carbonate of soda, ^ to 1 dr.; lard, 1 oz. In porrigo favosa, especially when occurring in adults. 4. (Soubeiran.) Carbonate of soda, 1 to 2 dr.; wine of opium, 1 fl. dr.; lard, 1 oz. In any of the above affections, when there is much pain or irritation. Obs. Carbonate of potassa is thought to be preferable to carbonate of soda, when the above affections occur in scorbutic habits. A little camphor is also occasionally added. Ointment of Al'um. Syn. Unguentum ALUMiNis, L. Prep. 1. Alum, in very fine powder, 1 dr.; lard, 1^ oz. In piles. 2. To the last add of powdered opium, 7 gr. In piles, when there is much pain. See Banter’s Ointment. Ammoni'acal Ointment. Syn. Unguentum AMMONIACALE, U. AMMONI.E, L. ; LiPAROLE d’ammoniaque, Pommade de Gondret, Fr. Prep. 1. (P. Cod.) Suet and lard, of each, 1 oz.; melt in a strong wide-mouthed bottle, add of liquor of ammonia (sp. gr. *923), 2 oz., at once close the bottle, and agitate it until its contents concrete. As little heat as possi- ble should be employed, to prevent unnecessary loss of ammonia. 2. (Gondret.) Lard, 3 parts; suet, 2 parts; almond oil, 1 part; strong liquor of ammonia, 6 parts; mix, as before. Rubefacient, vesicant, and counter-irritant. Smeared over the skin,