703 GLYCERYL—GOAT. 3. By saponifying olive oil with caustic al- kali, decomposing the resulting soap with dilute sulphuric or tartaric acid, evaporating the aqueous portion to dryness (nearly), dis- solving out the glycerine with cold rectified spirit, and filtering and evaporating the solu- tion as before. 4. The residuary liquor of a soap manufac- tory is eva-porated, and treated with alcohol to dissolve out the glycerin. The spirit is then evaporated off, the glycerin diluted with water, and finally boiled repeatedly with animal charcoal until all colour and odour are re- moved. Ohs. The products of the above processes are nearly pure, hut that of Pricers patent process, described below, is to he preferred to any of them. 5. (Commercial.) From sweet stearine- liquor, by precipitating the lime by a stream of carbonic acid gas, or by a solution of carbonate of soda, carefully avoiding adding the latter in excess; the liquor is then boiled a little, fil- tered, evaporated to a syrupy consistence, and again filtered. This is the common glyce- rine of the shops. It may be further purified as above. 6. (Peice’s aLTCEEiN—Patent dated 1854.) Superheated steam of from 550° to 600° Fahr. is introduced into a distillatory apparatus con- taining palm oil or other fatty body. The action of the steam effects the decomposition of the fat, and glycerin and the fatty acids distil over together, but no longer in combina- tion. In the receiver the condensed glycerin, from its higher specific gravity, sinks below the fatty acids. Sufficient steam must be supplied, and the temperature nicely regulated. The glycerin is concentrated by evaporation, and if discoloured, it is redistilled. It is usu- ally prepared with sp. gr. 1’24, and then con- tains 94^ of anhydrous glycerin. It can, how- ever, be concentrated to sp. gr. 1'26 when it contains 98 g. ’ Prop. Pure glycerin is a colourless, odour- less, uncry stallizable liquid, sweet to the taste, and of a syrupy consistence; it mixes with water in all proportions; it is unctuous and emollient, and softens bodies, like oil, but without greasing them ; it does not evaporate or change in the air at ordinary temperatures, and is not susceptible of rancidity or sponta- neous fermentation; mixed with yeast and kept in a warm place, it is gradually converted into PEOPiONic ACID; a strong heat decom- poses it, with the production of aceolein ; it is neutral to test-paper, and possesses neither basic nor acid properties; it is easily charged with the aroma of the essential oils, and may be combined with soap, and many other sub- stances, without undergoing change. Sp. gr., 1*27 (see above). Uses, 8fc. Glycerin was discovered by Scheele in 1782, but continued a mere matter of in- terest to the curious until comparatively a recent date. At length its value in diseases of the ear was noticed by an English practi- tioner, and soon afterwards Dr. Startin an- nounced its efficacy in some cutaneous affections. This led to its action being tested by MM. Bazin and Cazenave in France; by Mr. Yearsley and Mr. T. Wakley in London; and in Russia by Dr. Dallas, of Odessa, by whom its value both as a remedy and a cosmetic has been fully established. It is now extensively employed, either alone, or in lotions, baths, &c„ as a soothing emollient, and is added to poultices and dressings, instead of oil, to prevent their hardening. Diluted with water, it often suc- ceeds in allaying itching and irritation of the skin when all other means fail. As a cosmetic, either made into a lotion or added to soap (gltceeine soap), or used in small quantities along with the water employed in washing, it imparts a healthy clearness and a sensation of softness and coolness to the skin, which is very agreeable and refreshing. It is the best re- medy known for chapped nipples, hands, lips, &c.; all of which may be prevented by its use as an article of the toilet. GLYC'ERYL. The hypothetical radical of glycerin, according to Liebig. GLYCOBENZO'IC ACID. A nitrogenous com- pound formed, along with water and pure nitrogen, when hippuric acid is treated with nitrous acid. It is crystalline, only slightly soluble in water, but freely soluble in alcohol and ether; boiling water resolves it into ben- zoic ACID and GDTGOLIC ACID. GLY'COCINE. Syn. Gltcocoll, Gelatine SUGAE. This substance was originally ob- tained by the action of cold concentrated sul- phuric acid upon gelatine, but it has been since shown to be formed along with benzoic acid, when hippuric acid is treated with boiling hydrochloric acid. It is sweet tasted, colour- less, crystallizable, freely soluble in water, and unites to form crystallizable compounds with a number of other bodies, like cane and grape sugar. GLYCYR'RHIZIN. Syn. Liqijoeice sdgae. An uncrystallizable variety of sugar obtained from the root of common liquorice {Glycyr- rhiza glabra). It is yellow, transparent, so- luble in both water and alcohol, and is not susceptible of the vinous fermentation. GLYSTER. See Enema. GNATS and MUS'QUITOES. Smoke and strong fumes of any kind will drive away these in- sects. If you only burn a piece of brown paper in an enclosed space where they are, they soon after ‘ settle,’ and appear to become so stupefied as to remain inactive for some time after. In those parts of the New World where mosquitoes abound, tobacco smoke is commonly had recourse to in-doors, and large fires made of brush-wood or under-wood out- of-doors. Old travellers, when compelled to bivouac during the season in which they are troublesome, are very careful to keep close on the ‘ lee’ of these fires. GOAT. The capra of Linnaeus, an animal