465 COLCHICINE—COLD CEEAM. I coal, separated from the better kinds of [ bituminous coal, is the sort commonly used I for making coke in ovens, j 2. Gas coke; distilled coke. The cinder j left in the gas-retorts. Gray; produces a I weak heat, insufficient to smelt iron. I 3. Shale coke ; mineral carbon. From I bituminous shale, burned in covered iron pots, in a similar way to that adopted for making i bone-black; or in piles. Black and friable. ; Used to clarify liquids, but is vastly inferior ' to bone-black, and does not abstract the lime ■ from syrups. See Fijel, Pit-coal, &c. COL'CHICINE. Syn. Colchicin'a, Col- 1 CHI'CIA. A peculiar principle discovered by I Gieger and Hesse in the seeds of the Colchi- \ cum autumnale or common meadow saffron. It also exists in the conns or bulbs. ; Prep. Macerate the bruised seeds in boiling I alcohol, add hydrate of magnesia, to throw ! down the alkaloid, digest the precipitate in ! boiling alcohol, and filter. By cautious evapo- ration colchicine will be deposited, and may i be purified by re-solution and crystallization I in alcohol. j P-^op., &^c. Odourless; bitter; soluble in water and alcohol; forms salts with the acids. : It is very poisonous, -j^th of a grain, dis- I solved in spirit, killed a cat in 12 hours. It I differs from VERATRINE in being soluble in water and cryst.Tlline, and in the non-produc- tion of sneezing when cautiously applied to the nose. Strong oil of vitriol turns this alkaloid of a yellowish-brown; nitric acid turns it of a deep violet, passing into indigo blue, green, and yellow. It is not used in ji medicine. j COL'CHICUM. Syn. Mea'dow Sae'eron; I COLCHICUM autumnale (Linn.), L. The ' recent and dried corms or bulbs {colchici cormi), as well as the seeds {semina colchici), are officinal in the three British Pharmaco- I poeias. The corms are ordered to be “ dug up I in the month of July, or before the autumnal ' bud has projected.^’ " The dry coatings ! having been torn oft’, cut the cormus trans- versely in thin slices, and dry, at first with a gentle heat, but afterwards slowly increased to 150° Fabr.” (Ph. L.) I Dose (of the corms), 2 to 8 or 9 gr.; (of the j seeds), 2 to 7 gr., made into a pill or bolus with syrup or conserve; chiefly, as a specific in gout, to alleviate or check the paroxysm, i This drug forms the base of almost all the ’ advertised gout nostrums. It is, however, an 1 active poison, and its administration requires I care. “ After all that has been said respecting 1 colchicum in gout, and admitting that it rarely fails to allay pain and check a paroxysm, I I would record my opinion that he who would i wish to arrive at a good old age, should eschew [ it as an ordinary remedy, and consider that he i is drawing on his constitution for a temporary I relief, with a certainty of becoming prema- turely bankrupt in his vital energies.” (Col- ! lier.) COL'COTHAR. See Oxides oe Iron. COLD. Syn. Fri'gus, L. The privation of heat. The term is also applied to the sensa- tion and effects which this privation produces. When the body of an animal is immersed in an atmosphere at a temperature below the healthy standard, a sensation of coldness is experienced, produced by the passage of the caloric or heat of the body into the colder medium. If this abstraction of caloric exceeds the quantity produced by the vital system, the temperature of the body decreases, until it sinks below the point at which the luiictions of life can be performed. This declination of the heat of the body is gradual; the extreme sensation of coldness changes into a disinclina- tion for voluntary motion; next comes on drowsiness, followed by numbness and insen- sibility. At this point, if the sufferer is not rescued, and remedial measures had recourse to, death inevitably and rapidly ensues. The prevention of the effects of cold consists in the use of ample food and clothing propor- tioned to the inclemency of the weather, the exposure to be endured, and the habits of the wearer. The circulation of the blood should be promoted by active exercise, and any dis- position to sleep shaken off by increased bodily exertion. The principal endeavour should be to keep the extremities and chest warm, as, if this can be accomplished, no danger need be feared. In cases of asphyxia produced by intense cold, the patient should be laid in a room remote from the fire, and bathed with cold salt-and-water, or water to which some brandy or vinegar has been added; after which the body should be wiped dry, and friction assi- duously applied by the hands of the attendants (warmed); as many operating at once as can conveniently do so. Gentle stimulants should be administered by the mouth, and the bowels excited by some mild, stimulating clyster. The lungs should also be inflated, and an effort made to re-establish the respiration. As soon as symptoms of returning animation are evinced, and the breathing and circulation restored, the patient should be laid in a bed between blankets, and a little wine-and-water administered, and perspiration promoted by heaping an ample quantity of clothing on the bed. Should the patient have suffered from hunger as well as cold, the appetite may be appeased by the administration of a limited quantity of light food, taking especial care to avoid excess, or anything indigestible or ex- citing. See Asphyxia, Bronchitis, Ca- tarrh, &c. COLD CREAM. A snow-white, bland oint- ment, about the consistence of good lard, and an admirable substitute for that excipient where expense is no object, especially for ap- plications about the face. It is commonly sold as a lip-salve and as a healing application to abraded and chapped surfaces generally. The ordinary receipts arc niveu under the 30