DEFECATION—DELIRIUM TREMENS. and bases are incapable of forming a soluble and an insoluble salt, or tivo insoluble ones, do not sensibly disturb each other, or suffer any appa- rent decomposition. 3. A soluble and an insoluble salt, that are capable of forming two insoluble salts, suffer decomposition; but this reaction is rare, unless it is assisted with a considerable elevation of temperature. 4. In the mixture of a salt and acid, decom- position ensues if the added acid is either more fixed or more soluble than that in the salt. On this fact is based the manufacture of acetic acid from acetate of soda, and the action of ! the common effervescing soda-water powders. 5. Oxides and acids mutually neutralize ! each other, producing new compounds. I 6. The alkaline oxides (potassa, soda, &c.) j precipitate the other oxides and the alkaloids 1 from their saline solutions; but when added ' in excess, in some cases, redissolve the pre- ' cipitate. They also disengage from their com- i binations all the volatile bases (ammonia, conine, nicotine, &c.). Potassa decomposes most of the salts of the other alkalies, and all those of the pure earths and non-alkaline metals. 7. Organic substances containmg albumen, gelatine, fibrine, vegeto-alkalies, &c., suffer im- mediate decomposition when mixed with tannic or gallic acid, and all the strong acids (except i the acetic cav\phosphoric), as well as most of the salts of the non-alkaline metallic oxides, or with substances containing any of these bodies, j Obs. The ingenious operative will find the I above general facts of great value in the bustle j of the laboratory and workshop, in cases of which either his memory or his experience may fail to assist him. In this way, reactions may be anticipated, the disagreeable conse- i quences of unexpected decompositions avoided, [iimd judicious combinations ensured. Thus, we may foresee the reactions which result from the simple law of Berthollet, by knowing that all the bicarbonates, acetates, and nitrates ; the sulphates, with the exception of those of baryta, tin, lead, antimony, mercury, and bismuth; the carbonates of potassa, soda, and ammonia; the phosphates of the same bases; all the alka- line sulphurets; the iodides of the alkalies t and earths ; all the chlorides, with the excep- tion of the protochloride of mercury (calomel), and the chlorides of lead and silver; and all the salts of potash, soda, and ammonia, which have an excess of acid, are soluble in water, provided only that the acid itself is not inso- luble, like silicic and antimonic acid; but even the silicates and antimoniates of potassa and soda are soluble in an excess of alkali. To this , may be added, that many salts, as nitrate of bismuth, protochloride of antimony, and the nitrates and sulphates of mercury, are decom- posed by w'ater into soluble acid salts and inso- luble basic salts. On the other hand, the sulphates of baryta, \lin, lead, antimony, bismuth, and mercury ; all the carbonates, except those mentioned above 513 as being soluble; all the phos2)hates, borates, and sulphurets, except those above named; and all the iodides, except those of the alkalies and earths, are insoluble in water. See Afeinity, Electeolysis, &c. DEFECA'TJON. The separation of a liquid from its lees, dregs, or impurities, by sub- sidence and decantation. It is commonly em- ployed for the purification of saline solutions, and glutinous or unctuous liquids, on the large scale, in preference to filtration; than w^hich it is both more expeditious and inexpensive. See Claeification, Decantation, Filteation, &c. DEFLAGRATION. The sudden combustion of any substance, for the purpose of producing some change in its composition, by the joint action of heat and oxygen. The process is commonly performed by projecting into a red- hot crucible, in small portions at a time, a mixture of about equal parts of nitre, and the body to be oxidized. DEJEUNER. [Fr.] The morning meal; breakfast; but used of late in the fashionable world for lunch. See Beeakfast and Lunch. DELIQUES'CENCE. Spontaneous liquefac- tion by absorption of the moisture of the at- mosphere. Deliquescent salts are those which by exposure gradually assume the liquid state. They should all be kept in well-closed bottles or jars. DELIR'iUM TRE'MENS. [L.] The mad- ness of drunkards; a disease of the brain resulting from the excessive and protracted use of intoxicating liquors, particularly of ardent spirits. The early symptoms are ex- treme irritability and fretfuhiess, with unusual mobility of the body. Sleeplessness and un- pleasant dreams soon follow\ At length fright- ful dreams and visions harass the patient. He sees remarkable sights, hears extraordinary sounds, and labours under all the strange de- lusions of insane persons, w'hich, however vague and unfounded, operate on him with all the force of realities till he becomes furiously mad. The fit almost always comes on after hard drinking; and the hands are usually, but not always, tremulous. A similar affection is occasionally produced by the abuse of opium, excessive mental anxiety, night watching, or depletion. According to Dr. Armstrong, even respiring the fumes of ardent spirits wdll, under some circumstances,’ produce this dis- ease. Persons wdio have undergone surgical operations under the influence of chloroform are more liable to attacks of this kind than other persons. The treatment of delirium tremens consists mainly in the judicious use of opium, laudanum, or morphia, in rather large doses, frequently repeated. 30 to 60 drops of laudanum may be given every hour or two during the fit, its effects being carefully w^atched. The object is to produce quiet sleep, from which the patient usually wakes free from the w’orst symptoms of the disease. Diaphoretics and 33