GLIADIN—GLOVES. 700 ingredients used for enamels, are converted into the latter. a. For Eaethenwaee :— Prep. 1. (With lead.) White lead (pure), 53 parts; quartz or ground flints, 36 parts ; Cornish stone ovfelspar, 16 parts; white flint glass, 5 parts; reduce the whole to an impal- pable powder. For common earthenware. 2. (Without lead.) Fine washed sand, 10 parts; purified ‘potash,’ 8 parts; nitre, 1 part; slaked lime, 2 parts; nitre, 4f §; powder, mix, heat the mixture in a ‘blacklead crucible’ in a ‘reverberatory furnace,’ till the mass flows into a clear glass; let this cool, then reduce it to' flne powder. For glazing phar- maceutical and chemical vessels. b. For POECELAIN : — Prep. (Rose.) Felspar, 27 parts; borax, 18 parts; finest siliceous sand, 4 parts; nitre, soda, and purest china clay (Cornish), 3 parts; mix, heat to a ‘ frit,’i powder, and add of cal- cined borax, 3 parts. e. For Stonewaee :— 1. (lire.) White felspar, 2Q parts; soda, 6 parts; nitre, 2 parts ; borax, 1 part; ‘ frit ’ together as last. Of the product take 13 parts; red lead, 50 parts; white lead, 40 parts; dints, 12 parts; reduce the whole to powder as before. For painted stoneware. 2. From common salt, which is thrown into the heated furnace containing 'the ware. It is volatilized and ■ decomposed by the joint agency of the silica of the ware and of the vapour of .water always present; liydrochloric acid and soda are produced, the latter forming a silicate, which fuses over the surface of the ware, and gives a thin but excellent glaze. ‘ Salt-glazed stonewaee ’ is now generally used for large chemical vessels, drain-pipes, &c. Obs. Glazes must be reduced to very fine powder. For use, they are ground with water to a very thin paste or smooth cream, into which the articles, previously baked to the state called ‘biscuit,’ are then dipped; they are afterwards exposed to a sufficient heat in the kiln to fuse the glaze. Another method of applying them is to immerse the ‘biscuit’ in water for a minute or so, and then to sprinkle the dry powder over the moistened surface. GLI'ADIN. Syn. Gliadine. A peculiar substance contained in the gluten of wheat. Prep. Rub fresh-made gluten of wheat flour with alcohol, and evaporate the filtered so- lution to dryness. The gliadin thus obtained may be purified by extracting the colouring matter and oil by means of ether. Prop., d^c. A gluey, adhesive substance; hard and translucent when dry; insoluble in water; soluble in acetic acid and dilute caustic alkali. The presence of gliadin is charac- teristic of wheat corn. It is used to form a test liquor. GLOB’ULIN. Syn. Globuline. A species ^ A technical term for the half-fused mass formed by heating together the materials of which glass is composed. of albumen constituting the principal portion of the blood-globules. GLOVE POW'DER. Prep. 1. From Castile soap, dried by exposure to a warm dry atmo- sphere for a few days, and then reduced to fine powder in a mortar. Used to clean gloves. ' " 2. Pipe-clay, coloured with yellow ochre, umber, or Irish slate, q.s., and afterwards scented with a little powdered orris root or cloves. Used to colour gloves made of doe- skin and similar leather. GLOVES. Syn. Gants, Fr. Although gloves constitute a less costly article of dress at the present day than they did during the Middle Ages, the following information may nevertheless he sometimes found of value to their wearers:— Glove cleaning. 1. (Kid gloves.)—a. Damp them slightly, stretch them gently over a 'wooden ‘ hand’ of appropriate size, and clean them w'ith a sponge dipped in benzole, recently rectified oil of turpentine, or camphine ; as soon as they are dry, -svithdraw them gently from the ‘ stretcher,’ and suspend them in a current of air for a few days, or until they cease to smell of the cleaning liquid used. The smell of benzole passes olf very quickly. Heat must he avoided. The cleaning liquid should be used liberally, and the first dirty portion should be sponged off with clean liquid. b. By employing a saponaceous compound. See GanteinE. 2. (Doe-skin and wash-leatdee gloves.) —a. Stretch them on a ‘ hand,’ or lay them flat on a table, and rub into them a mixture of finely-powdered/h^/er’s ear/^andalum; sweep it off with a brush, sprinkle them with a mix- ture of dry bran and whiting, and, lastly, dust them w'ell off. This will not do if they are very dirty. b. Wash them in lukewarm soft water, with a little Castile or curd soap, ox-gall, or bran tea, then stretch them on wooden hands, or pull them into shape without wu’inging them; next rub them wdth pipe-clay and yellow ochre, or umber, or a mixture of them in any required shade, made into a paste with ale or beer ; let them dry gradually, and, when about half dry, rub them well, so as to smooth them and put them into shape; when they are dry, brush out the superfluous colour, cover them with paper, and smooth them with a warm (not hot) h’on. Glove dyeing. Leathee gloves, if not greasy, may be dyed with any of the ordinary dyes by brushing the latter over the gloves stretched out smooth. The surface alone should he wetted, and a second or third coat may be given after the former one has become dry. Wlien the last coat has become thoroughly dry, the superfluous colour should he well rubbed out, a smooth surface given them by rubbing them -writh a polished stick or piece of ivory, and the whole gone over with a sponge dipped in white of egg.