PICKLES. 1063 I 'essel until sufficiently ‘greened,’ before pour- it on the vegetables. This poisonous ad- lition mny be readily detected by any of the ests mentioned at page 480. If a green colour )Q desired, it may be imparted to the vinegar, nd ultimately to the pickles, by steeping vine eaves, or the leaves of parsley or spinach, in it. V teaspoonful of olive oil may be advantage- i)usly added to each bottle, to keep the pickles Ivhite, and to promote their preservation. The following list includes the leading )ickles of the shops, and some others:— Barberries. Prom the ripe fruit, without icat. Beans. From the young green pods of the 'carlet bean, and the French or kidney bean, vith heat. Beetroot. From the sliced root, without jiteeping in brine, and with cold spiced vinegar. A^hen wanted for immediate use, the vinegar nay be used boiling hot. Brocoli. As cauliflowers. Cabbage. This, either red or white, is •ut into thin slices, and steeped in strong brine >r sprinkled with common salt, and allowed to ie for 1 or 2 days; after w'hich it is drained or 10 or 12 hours in a warm room, and then nit into jars or bottles, with or without a ittle mace and white peppercorns, and at once •overed with cold, strong, white vinegar.— dnother plan is to steep the sliced cabbage in dum water for 10 or 12 hours, and, after jlraining and drying it, to pour the vinegar pver it as before. The product of the last formula eats very fresh and crisp, but takes [onger to mature than that of the other. fSome persons add a little salt with the vinegar; ind others mix slices of red beet w'ith the cab- page. Capsicums. As gherkins. Cauliflowers. As cabbage (nearly). Or, they may be steeped in hot brine for 1 to 2 liours before pouring the vinegar over them. Cherries. From the scarcely ripe fruit, bot- tled, and covered with strong and colourless oickling vinegar. Codlins. As beans. Cucumbers. As gherkins. Elderflowers. From the clusters, just before they open, as red cabbage. A beautiful pickle. English Bamboo. From the young shoots of elder, denuded of the outer skin, pickled in brine for 12 or 14 hours; then bottled with a little ivhite pepper, ginger, mace, and allspice, and pickled with boiling vinegar. Excellent with boiled mutton. I Eschalots. With boiling spiced vinegar, or Isjyices added to each bottle. French Beans. See above. Garlic. As eschalots. • Gherkins. From small cucumbers (not too young), steeped for a week in very strong brine ; this last is then poured off, heated to the boil- ing-point, and again poured on the fruit; the next day the gherkins are drained on a sieve. wiped dry, put into bottles or jars with some spice (ginger, pepper, or cayenne), and at oru e covered with strong pickling vinegar, boiling hot. Several other pickles may be prepared in the same way. Gooseberries. From the green fruit, as either cabbage or cauliflowers. Indian Mango. From green peaches. (See beloio.) Indian Pickle. Syn. Piccalilli. This is a mixed pickle Avhich is characterised by being highly flavoured with curry-powder or tur- meric, mustard, and garlic. The following form is commonly used:—Take 1 hard white cabbage (sliced), 2 cauliflowers (pulled to pieces), some French beans, 1 stick of horse- radish (sliced), about 2 dozen small white onions, and 1 dozen gherkins; cover them with boiling brine; the next day drain the whole on a sieve, put it into a jar, and add, of curry-powder or turmeric, 2 oz.; garlic, ginger, and mustard-seed, of each, 1 oz.; capsicums, \ oz.; fill up the vessel with hot pickling vine- gar, bung it up close, and let it stand for a month, with occasional agitation. See Mixed Pickles {below). Lemons. From the fruit, slit half way down into quarters, and cored, put into a dish, and sprinkled with a little salt; in about a week, the ivhole is placed in jars or bottles with a little turmeric and capsicums, and covered with hot vinegar. Limes. As the last. Mangoes. As lemons, &^d\xi^-mustard seed and a little garlic, with spices at will. Eng- lish MANGOES are made from cucumbers or small melons, split and deprived of their seeds. Melons. As lemons (nearly). Mixed Pickles. From white cabbage, cauli- flowers, French beans, cucumbers, onions, or any other of the ordinary pickling vegetables, at will {except red cabbage or walnuts) treated as GHERKINS; with raw ginger, capsicum, mus- tard seed, and long pepper, for spice, added to each bottle. A little coarsely bruised tur- meric improves both the colour and flavour. Mushrooms. From the small button mush- rooms, cleansed with cold spring water, and gently wiped dry with a towel, then placed in bottles, with a blade or two of mace, and covered with the strongest white pickling vinegar, boiling hot. Myrobalans. The yellow myrobalan pre- served in strong brine. Gently aperient. Nasturtiums. From the unripe or scarcely ripe fruit, simply covered with cold strong vinegar; or, as cabbage or gherkins. Onions. From the small button or fllbert onion, deprived of the outer coloured skin, and either at once put into bottles and covered with strong white pickling vinegar, or pre- viously steeped for a day or two in strong brine or alum water. When required for early use, the vinegar should be poured on boiling hot. Peaches. From the scarcely ripe f'uit, as gherkins. • '