544 ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY—ELECTROPHORUS. present day scientific men of all nations re- cognise two kinds of electrical force, distin- guished by the terms ‘positive^ and ‘nega- tive/ but they do not assume the existence of any peculiar kind of matter to which the term ‘ ELECTEic flijid’ may be applied. For a lucid exposition of the modern views of elec- trical action the reader is referred to Sir W. Snow Harris’s ‘ Rudimentary Treatise on Elec- tricity.’ The term ‘feictional electei- city’ is applied to that branch of the science which relates to the phenomena of ordinary electrical excitation, as distinguished from those comparatively new branches which have reference to the phenomena attendant on electrical excitation by chemical action, mag- netism, and heat. The latter are termed respectively ‘ voltaic electeicity,’ or ‘ gal- vanism,’ ‘ magneto-electeicity,’ and ‘ thee- MO-electeicity.’ Another important branch of the science relates to the magnetic effects of electricity, and is termed electeo-mag- NETiSM.’ We devote a separate article to VOLTAIC ELECTEICITY, Oil account of the many useful applications of the ‘voltaic current,^ but are compelled to leave unnoticed the other branches. For full information respecting electrical phenomena we refer the reader to Dr. Noad’s comprehensive ‘ Manual of Electri- city’ and Faraday’s ‘Experimental Researches in Chemistry and Physics.’ See the articles above and below. Voltaic Electeicity, &c. ELECTRO-CHEM'ISTRY. That branch of chemistry which treats of the agency of elec- teicity in effecting chemical changes. See Electeolysis {below). ELECTRO-ETCH'ING. See Etching. ELECTROLYSIS (-trol-e-sis). Electro-che- mical decomposition. The ‘voltaic current’ has the power of loosening and separating the constituents of certain compound bodies when these are interposed in the circuit. The sub- stances which are thus susceptible of decom- position are termed ‘ electeolytes.’ They are all ‘ binary compounds,’ containing single ‘equivalents’ of their components, which are held together by very powerful ‘affinities.’ The amount of electrical power required to effect decomposition varies greatly with dif- ferent ‘electrolytes’: solution of iodide of potassium, melted chloride of lead, hydro- chloric acid, water mixed with a little sul- phuric acid, and pure water, demand very difiierent degrees of decomposing force, the resistance increasing from the first-mentioned substance to the last. One of the indispensa- ble conditions of ‘electrolysis’ is fluidity. When a liquid is ‘ electrolysed’ its components are disengaged solely at the limiting surfaces, where, according to the usual figurative mode of speech, the ‘current’ enters and leaves the liquid, all the intermediate portions appearing quiescent. The terms ‘anode’ and ‘cathode’ have been proposed respectively for the sur- faces which are supposed to receive and let out the current of ‘positive electricity.’ The I ‘anode’ is therefore directly against or oppo- I site the ‘ positive pole’ of the battery, or, I according to the improved nomenclature, the ‘POSITIVE electeode’; and the ‘cathode’ against the ‘ negative pole,’ or ‘ electeode.’ The bodies which are set free by the action of the current are termed ‘ions’; those which go to the ‘ anode’ and appear at the ‘positive electrode’ being distinguished by the term ‘ ANIONS,’ and those which go to the ‘ cathode’ and appear at the ‘ negative electrode’ by the i term ‘ cathions.’ In the old phraseology of the electro-chemical theory ‘ anions’ would be' i called ‘electro-positive’bodies, and‘cathions’ , ‘electro-negative,’ from the assumption that : they are under the influence of direct attractive r forces residing in the opposite ‘poles’ of the battery. Faraday, however, has shown by conclusive experiments that the decomposing force is not at the ‘ poles,’ but within the sub- stance which is acted on by the current; and the new terms introduced by him express the : phenomena actually observed in all cases of electro-chemical decomposition. The relative decomposing effects produced by the same cur- rent in different ‘electrolytes’ are exactly ex- pressed by the ‘ atomic weights ’ or ‘ chemical equivalents’ of the ‘electrolytes.’ Thus, if a current be made to traverse acidulated water, ! iodide of potassium, and chloride of lead, these three ‘ electrolytes’ will suffer decomposition > at the same time, but by no means to the same extent; for the current which decom- i poses but 9 parts of water will separate into • their elements 166 parts of iodide of potassium and 139 parts of chloride of lead. The ‘ elec- trolysis’ of metallic salts is now carried out on a large scale in the beautiful arts, which we notice under the general head of Electeo- ■ TYPE {below). > ELECTRO-PLA"TING and GILD'ING. See | Electeotype {below). ELECTROPH'ORUS. A simple instrument for exciting electricity, generally used in the , chemical laboratory for charging small ‘ Ley- den jars’ when gases have to be exploded by the electric spark. To construct it, a plate of tinned iron is made into a circle of about 12 inches diameter; a raised border is then turned , up for about half an inch, and the extreme edge is turned outwards over a wire to avoid a sharp border. A mixture of equal parts by | weight of shell-lac, Venice turpentine, and resin, i|. is made by gently heating them together with stirring until well fused and thoroughly in- '| corporated. This composition is poured into the plate, to quite fill it, and kept melted ' until all bubbles have disappeared. Another portion of the instrument, serving the same i purpose as the ‘ conductor’ of an electric ma- i chine, is a circle of wood, rather smaller than f the resinous plate, rounded at the edge, and : neatly covered with tin-foil. An ‘insulating’ handle, formed of a piece of stout glass rod, is 'j cemented into the centre of this wooden disc. 9 Before using the instrument it must be care-1 \\