BREAD. 356 sack of the best Jiour, with 4 or 5 lb. of salt, yields about 360 lb. of good bread; and a sack of seconds, 345 to 350 lb. of bread; each being mo- derately baked. If the loaves are ‘ well-baked ’ or ‘ over-baked,' the product will be from 345 to 350 lb. only ; but if they are ' slack-baked' or * under-baked' from 370 lb. to 385 lb. of ‘ crumbling bread ’ may be obtained from 1 sack of good white-flour. The attention of chemists has, at various times, been directed in search of some method to rectify or lessen the effects of ‘ bad har- vesting ^ and improper ‘ storage ^ on grain, so that a damaged or inferior article might be rendered serviceable, and available for human food. Prof. E. Davy recommends the addition of i oz. of carbonate of magnesia to about every 3 lb. of sour, ^melted,’ ^ heated,^ and simi- larly damaged flour. This substance mate- rially improves the quality of the bread, even when made from the worst new seconds flourwhilst it is said to be perfectly harm- less ; and the bread so prepared, for temporary use, is certainly unobjectionable. What effects would arise from the daily consumption of such bread for several months has not been de- termined ; but it is doubtful whether it would prove salutary. Indeed there are sufficient reasons for condemning the adoption of such bread in the general diet of a people for auy very lengthened period.^ Our own experiments in bread-making, extending over a long period of years, lead us to prefer sesquicarbonate of soda, or bicarbonate of soda, for the purpose. Theoretically, the corresponding salts of po- tassa would be preferable. A mixture of equal parts of the bicarbonates of potassa and of soda, will, perhaps, ultimately be found to be more useful than either substance used separately. In times of scarcity and famine various substances, bes'des the flour of the cereals, have been made into bread, or have been mixed with it, in order to lessen the quantity of the former required by the people. For this purpose, almost every amylaceous vege- table at once plentiful and cheap, has, in its turn, been eagerly appropriated. Acorns, beech-mast, the leguminous seeds, numerous starchy bulbous roots, and similar substances, have been employed, either in the form of meal, or made into an emulsion or jelly, which has been used instead of water to form the flour of bread-corn into a dough. At such times bran, the most nutritious and valuable portion of the grain, although usually rejected as worthless, has been retained in the flour, and has even been added to it in excess. Birkenmayer, a brewer of Constance, during a period of scarcity, succeeded in manufacturing bread from the farinaceous residue of beer {brewer^s grains). 10 lb. of this substance, rubbed to a paste, with | lb. of yeast, 5 lb. of ordinary meal, and a handful of salt, produces 14 lb. of BLACK BEEAD, which is said to be “ both savoury and nourishing.’’ The nutri- 1 See Goiture, M'.gxesia, &c tious quality of brewer’s grains is shown by their extensive employment at the present > day as food for pigs and cattle, and particularly ' 1 for milch cows. In like manner, Iceland, Car- t ragheen, and other mosses, have been made I into bread, either alone, or mixed with flour j or meal. They are used, in the first case, in the state of meal, in the same way as flour; in the second case, 7 lb. of moss are directed to i be boiled in 10 or 12 gal. of water, and the re- j suiting glutinous liquid or jelly to be employed to make 70 lb. of fiour into dough, which is then fermented and baked in the usual way. It is said that flour thus produces fully double its weight of good household-bread. A sim- t pier plan is to mix 1 lb. of lichen meal with 3 or 4 /5. of fiour ; the bitterness of the lichen having been first extracted by soaking it in cold i water. Bread so prepared has of late been highly recommended for the delicate and dys- peptic. The modern baker is in the habit of mixing large quantities of potatoes with his bread, whenever he can purchase them at i ‘ paying ’ prices. Mealy potatoes are selected, • and are carefully ‘ mashed ’ or ‘ pulped,’ and ij the dry flour is worked into this pulp or dough, r which is then mixed with the sponge in the ij usual manner. For inferior bread, equal weights | of potato pulp and dry fiour are often used. > Bread so prepared eats ‘short,’ and is defi- < cient in sponginess, and in that fine yellowish- i white tint which forms one of the character- istics of pure wheaten bread. More recently, rice boiled with water to a jelly, has got into very extensive use among the bakers. A ‘ sponge ’ is made with a portion of the jelly I thickened with some fiour, and the whole pro- cess is conducted in the ordinary manner, ex- cept that the fermentation is generally more slowly conducted and allowed to proceed for a y longer period. Flour so treated yields fully ' 50g more bread than when merely mixed up with yeast and water. This constitutes the I process of Messrs. Morian, Martin, and Jour- net, of Paris, which was tested, a few years since, at Marylebone Workhouse. The expe- i riment succeeded, but the only result to the ' public has been, that the common bakers have adopted the plan, and now very generally I surcharge their bread with such an excess of water that, in many cases, it only possesses I two thirds the amount of nourishment which I it d‘d before the publication of the system just referred to. Unfortunately, the cupidity of dishonest tradesmen appears to be continu- ally impelling them to avail themselves of the exertions of philanthropists and the discoveries of science, in order to increase their profits, regardless alike of the quality of their com- modities and the health of their customers. Bread containing an excess of water rapidly becomes sour and mouldy, and is apt to disorder ' the digestive functions of those who eat it. From the experiments of Dr. Colquhoun, I it appears that the starch of flour is partially converted m'o sugar during the process of