WATER. 1323 i bright spot in the dark, as at night, exerts a I like effect. A tumblerful of cold spring v>ater, either with or without a few grains of bicar- bonate of potash in it, taken just before lying down, will frequently succeed with the dys- , peptic and nervous, when all other means fail. I See SuppEK, &c. ■! WA'TER. Syn. Oxide op hydeogen, Peot- OXIDE OF H.; Aqda, L. ; Eau, Er. j Wassee, ■If Ger. The ancients regarded water as a simple i substance, and as convertible into various mine- || ral and organic products. Earth, air, fire, and || water, were at one time conceived to be the fj< elementary principles or essences of matter, II from which all form and substance derived • i their existence. The true constitution of (water was not discovered until about the year 1781, when Cavendish and James Watt, inde- pendently and nearly simultaneously, showed it to be a compound of hydrogen and oxygen. Eive years, however, before this time (1776), the celebrated Macquer, assisted by Sigaud de la Fond, obtained pure water by the combus- tion of hydrogen in the air. It has since been satisfactorily demonstrated that hydrogen and f oxygen exist in water in the proportion of 1 to 8 by weight, or 2 to 1 by volume; the sp. ! gr. of hydrogen being to that of oxygen as 1 to 16. One cubic inch of perfectly pure water ! at 62° Fahr., and 30 inches of the barometer, r weighs 252"458 gr.; by which it will be seen i that it is 815 times heavier than atmospheric I air. Its sp. gr. is 1*0, it being made the stan- t dard by which the densities of all solid and i liquid bodies are estimated. The sp. gr. of I frozen water (ice) is '9175 (Dufour); that of ) aqueous vapour (steam), ’6252, air being I’O. ) Water changes its volume with the tempera- • ture; its greatest density is at about 39§° t Fahr., and its sp. gr. decreases from that j point, either way. By the enormous pressure { of 30,000 lb. on the square inch, 14 volumes of water are condensed into 13 volumes. Water ( evaporates, at all temperatures, but at 212°, li under ordinary circumstances, this takes place » so rapidly that it boils, and is converted into c I vapour {steam), whose bulk is nearly 1700 t times greater than that of water. The ge- 1 neral properties and uses of water are too well t known to require notice, i Var. Of these the following are the prin- t cipal:— < Distilled watee ; Aqda destillata (Ph. ) L. E. & D.), L. Obtained by the distillation i I of common water, observing to reject the first i I and last portions that come over. The still u I employed for this operation should be used for no other purpose; and when great nicety t is required, the distillation should be performed •. in glass or earthenware. “ It remains limpid ’ ion the addition of lime water, chloride of 1 j barium, nitrate of silver, oxalate of ammonia, ior hydrosulphuric acid.^’ (Ph. L.) It is the I only kind of water that should be employed in I chemical and pharmaceutical operations. When j distilled water is not at hand, clean filtered or clarified rain water is the only kind that can be successfully substituted. Rain watee ; Aqua plijvia, A. pldvialis, A. IMBEIUM, L. A nearly pure kind of na- tural water; but it contains minute quantities of air, carbonic and nitric acid, carbonate of ammonia, &c. Snow watee ; Aqda nivalis, A. ex nive, L. The purest of all natural waters. Seeing watee ; Aqda (Ph. E.), Aqua pon- TANA (Ph. D.), L. Rain water which has percolated through the earth almost always contains mineral impurities. “For pharma- ceutical use, spring water must be so far free of saline matter as not to possess the quality of hardness, or contain above l*6000th part of solid matter(Ph. E.) Rivee WATEE; Aqua pluvialis, A. ex flumine, L. Less pure than good spring water. Thames water contains about l*3500th part of fixed impurities, chiefly carbonate of lime; or from 16 to 24 gr. of solid matter per gallon, independently of gaseous matter and mechanical impurities. The average of six analyses gave us 21*5 gr. per gaU. (‘Med. Circ.,’ i, 260.) Well watee. Pump watee; Aqua pu- TEANA, A. EX PUTEO, L. Less pure than either of the preceding. Usually contains a large quantity of carbonate and sulphate of lime. Hence its * hardness’ and property of curdling soap. When this arises from the first-named substance, it is called ‘ temporary hardness,’ since it is, for the most part, re- moved by boiling and exposure; but when it arises from sulphate of lime it is called ^per- manent hardness,’ since it cannot be so easily remedied. Maesh watee (Aqua ex palude) and Lake watee (Aqua ex lacu) resemble river water, but contain more organic matter in a state of decomposition, and are hence deemed unwholesome. Sea WATEE; Aqua maeina, A. maeis, L. The characteristic of this variety is its saltness. Its density is about 1‘0274, and the average quantity of saline matter which it contains is about 3^ per cent., of which about §1 are chloride of sodium, and the re- mainder chiefly chloride of magnesium and sulphate of magnesia. Analysis of Sea Water (British Channel), by Dr. Schweitzee, of Brighton;— 1000 grains contained— grains. Water 964745 Chloride of sodium .... 27'059 „ of potassium .... 0766 „ of magnesium .... 3 666 Bromide of magnesium.... 0 029 Sulphate of magnesia .... 2-296 „ of lime 1-406 Carbonate of lime 0 033 Traces of iodine and ammoniacal salt 1000- Pur. Pure water is perfectly transparent, odourless, and colourless, and evaporates with-