668 FROST-BITES—FRUIT. much esteemed on tlie Continent. Its liver is among the simples of the Ph. L. 1618, and was once considered a useful remedy in cer- tain forms of ague. FROST-BITES. When those parts of the body in which the circulation of the blood is most languid are exposed to extreme cold, they quickly become frozen, or, as it is called, ‘frost bitten.’ The fingers, toes, ears, nose, and chin, are most liable to this attack. The remedy is long-continued friction with the hands or cold funnel, avoiding the fire, or even a lieated apart- ment. FRUIT. Syn. Fructus, L. Among io- ianists, this is the mature ovary or pistil, con- taining the ripened ovules or seeds. In fami- liar language, the term is applied to any product of a plant containing the seed, more especially tliose that are eatable. Fruits are extensively employed as articles of diet by man, both as luxuries and nutri- ment. The fruit of the cereals furnishes our daily bread; that of the vine gives us the v/ell*known bev'erage, wine; whilst other va- rieties enrich our desserts, and provide us with some of our most valuable condiments and aromatics. The acidulous and subacid fruits are antiseptic, aperient, attenuant, diuretic, and refrigerant. They afford little nourish- ment, and are apt to promote diarrhma and flatulency. They are, however, occasionally exlilbited medicinally, in putrid affections, and are often useful in bilious and dyspeptic com- plaints. The farinaceous fruits (grain), as already stated, furnish the principal and most useful portion of the food of man. The oleo- farinaceous (nuts, &c.) are less wholesome and less easy of digestion than those purely fari- naceous. The saccharine fruits, or those abounding in sugar, are nutritious and laxa- tive, but are apt to ferment and disagree with delicate stomachs when eaten in excess. Stone fruits are more difficult of digestion than the other varieties, and are very apt to disorder the stomach and bowels. As a rule, fruit should never be eaten in large quantities at a time, and only when quite ripe. It then appears to be exceedingly wholesome, and to be a suitable corrective to the grossness of animal food. It also exercises a powerful action on the skin, and is a specific for scurvy in its early stages. Many cuta- neous diseases may likewise be removed by the daily use of a moderate quantity of fruit, or other fresh vegetable food. Cases are not un- common which, after resisting every variety of ordinary medical treatment, yield to a mixed fruit or vegetable diet. Fruits should be gathered in dry weather, and preferably about noon, because the dew and moisture deposited on them during the night and earlier part of the morning has then evaporated. They should be quite ripe when gathered, but the sooner they are re- moved from the tree, after this point is arrived at, the better. Immature fruit never keeps so I well as that which has ripened on the tree; i and over-ripe fruit is liable to be bruised and to lose flavour. The less fruit is handled in gathering the better. Some of them, as PEACHES, NECTARINES, GRAPES, PLUMS, &C., require to be treated with gi-eat delicacy, to avoid bruising them or rubbing off the bloom. Some fruit, as a few varieties of apples, pears, and oranges, &c., are gathered before they I are fully ripe, in order that they may the better 1 undergo the perils of transit and storeage. Pres. Ripe fruits are commonly preserved in the fresh state by placing them in a cool, dry situation, on shelves, so that they do not touch each other; or by packing them in clean, dry sand, sawdust, straw, bran, or any similar substance, with like care, to preserve them from the action of air and moisture. An excellent plan, commonly adopted for dessert fruit in the country, is to wrap each separately in a piece of clean, dry paper, and to fill small, wdde-mouthed jars or honey-pots with them. The filled pots are then packed one upon another (see engr^ in a dry and cold place (as a cellar), where the frost cannot reach them. The space {a) between the two pots may be advantageously filled up wdth plaster of Paris made into a paste with water. The joint is thus rendered air- tight, and the fruit will keep good for a long time. The mouth of the' top jar is covered with a slate. For use, the jars should be taken one at a time from the store-room, as wanted, and the fruit exposed for a w^eek or ten days in a wmrm dry room, before being eaten, by which the flavour is much improved. Fruit is preserved on the large scale for the '! London market by placing in a cool situation, first a layer of straw or paper, then a layer of fruit, next a layer of straw, and so on alter- nately, to the height of 20 or 25 inches, which cannot be w'ell exceeded, as the w^eight of the superincumbent fruit is apt to crush or injure the lower layers. Sometimes alternate layers of fruit and paper are arranged in baskets or hampers, which are then placed in the cellar or fruit-room. The baskets admit of being piled one over the other without injury to the fruit. The use of brown paper is inadmissible for the above purposes, as it conveys its pecu- liar flavour to the fruit. Thick white-brown paper is the cheapest and the best. Fruit Essences (Artificial). These remark- able products first attracted attention at the Exhibition of 1851. To speak somewhat gene- rally, they are mixtures of amylic, butyric, pelargonic, valerianic, and other ethers, in alco- hol. By judicious mixture, the flavour of almost any fruit can be more or less perfectly imitated. The artificial essences are generally coloured to represent the juice of the fruit from which they are supposed to be derived. The essence of jargonelle-pear and tlie