SILVER. 1200 white clay, perforated by means of a well- greased goose-quill, was used instead of metal moulds. In the Ph. E. & Ph. L. 1836 the moulds are ordered to be greased; when this is done, the sticks of caustic should be wiped clean before rolling them in paper. The moulds should be gently heated before pouring the fused nitrate into them. Mr. Benzon, the celebrated Danish pharmaceutist, recom- mends moulds formed of the massive white Bohemian talc or of English slate. Pur., dfc. Pure nitrate of silver, whether crystallized or fused, is entirely soluble in water, yielding a colourless solution, from which metallic silver is precipitated by a piece of bright copper; both are originally white, but are darkened by exposure to light and con- tact with organic matter. “ If, after 17 gr. of nitrate of silver have been added to 6 gr. of the chloride of sodium dissolved in water, more of the nitrate be poured into the filtered liquor, nothing more is thrown down.” (Ph. L.) “29 gr. dissolved in 1 fi. oz. of water acidulated with nitric acid, precipitated by a solution of 9 gr. of muriate of ammonia, briskly agitated for a few seconds, and then allowed to rest a little, yields a clear super- natant liquor, which is still precipitable by more of the test.” (Ph. E.) Nitre is the most common adulterant of nitrate of silver. Uses, 8fc. Nitrate of silver is a powerful tonic, antispasmodic, astringent, and escha- rotic. Dose. | to 1 gr., gradually increased, twice or thrice a day, made into a pill with crum of bread; in chorea, epilepsy, &c., pre- ceded by purgatives. It has been highly ex- tolled, by Mr. Ross, as a remedy in cholera. Its continued use permanently colours the skin. It is also extensively employed exter- nally as a caustic. It is powerfully poisonous. A solution of common salt, emetics, and de- mulcents, constitute the treatment in such cases. Nitrate of silver is much employed in the manufacture of ‘ indelible ink’ for linen, and HAIE DYES. Ox'ides of Silver. Three of these are known:— 1. Suboxide of Silver. Syn. Argenti sdb- OXYDUM, L. Prep. From dry citrate of silver heated to 212® Fahr., in a stream of hydrogen gas, until it turns dark brown, when it is dis- solved in water ; the solution, which contains free citric acid and citrate of suboxide of silver, is next treated with potassa, and the precipi- tate is carefully washed and dried. A black powder, easily decomposed, and soluble in liquor of ammonia. 2. Protoxide of Silver. Syn. Oxide of silver, Argenti oxydum (Ph. D.), A. PROTOXYDIJM, L. Prep. 1. (Lane.) Nitrate of silver, 2 parts; hydrate of potassa, 1 part; dissolve each separately in distilled water, mix the solutions, and, after frequent agitation during an hour, collect and wash the precipi- tate, and dry it by a gentle heat in the shade. A pale brown powder. 2. (Gregory.) Recently precipitated chlv ride of silver is boiled in a solution of causU potassa of the sp. gr. 1*25, with frequei) stirring and trituration, until, on testing little of it, it is found to be entirely soluble i dilute nitric acid, when it is washed and driec as before. A black and very dense powdei' Chemically pure. 3. (Ph. D.) Nitrate of silver, \ oz.; vmtei 4 fl. oz.; dissolve, and pour the solution into bottle containing lime water, 2 quarts, or q. s. agitate the mixture well, collect and wash th sediment, and dry it at a heat not exceed ing 212° Fahr. A dark olive-brown powdei Pure. Prop., ^c. Very soluble in solutions of am monia and of the alkaline hyposulphites slightly soluble in water; reaction, alkaline decomposed by light. Dose. ^ to 2 gr.; ii epilepsy, gastralgic irritations, &c. It i much used in France, and has been highly ex tolled in menorrhagia. By some, however, i is not considered superior to the nitrate. 3. Peroxide of Silver. Syn. Argenti pee OXYDUM, L. A black crystalline substanc( which forms on the positive electrode of a vol taic arrangement employed to decompose solu tion of nitrate of silver. Oxidized Silver. The high appreciation ii which ornamental articles in oxidized silver an now held, renders a notice of the process fol lowed interesting. There are two distinc’ shades in use, one produced by chlorine, whicl has a BROWNISH tint, and the other by sul phur, which has a bluish-black tint. T( produce the former, it is only necessary t(; wash the article with a solution of sal ammo- niac. A much more beautiful tint may, how- ever, be obtained by employing a solutm composed of equal parts of sulphate of coppei and sal ammoniac dissolved in vinegar. A FINI BLACK TINT may be produced by a slightly warm solution of sulphuret of potassium or ol sodium. (‘ Chem. Techn.’) Sul'phate of Silver. Syn. Argenti sul- phas, L. Prep. By boiling silver in sulphuric acid ; or, by precipitating a solution of the ni- trate by another of sulphate of soda. It dis- solves in 80 parts of hot water, and falls in small colourless needles as the solution cools. Sul'phuret of Silver. Syn. Sulphide ob SILVER; Argenti sulphuretum, L. Pre-; pared by passing sulphuretted hydrogen through a solution of nitrate of silver ; or, by melting its constituents together. It possesses a gray- ish-black colour, and is a strong sulphur- base. SILVER DUST. Syn. Silver powdee;, Argenti crocus, A. pulvis, L. Prep. 1. Pure pulverulent silver, obtained by any of the| methods explained at page 1198. Used to coat: pills, by japanners, &c. i 2. Heat oxide of silver to dull redness in a| porcelain crucible, cool, triturate the powder in an agate mortar, and pass it through a fine sieve. Used at the hospital of Montpellier.