199 APORETINE—APOZEM. I I I tives and diaphoretics, and the avoidance of ; stimulating food or drinks, and of other like I exciting agents. I Prev., The premonitory symptoms of : apoplexy are giddiness, pain and swimming in i t/ie head, loss of memory, faltering in speech or using one word for another, diminished sen- I sihility either of body or mind, or both, drow- j siness, noises in the ears, specks floating before I the eyes, nightmare, frightful dreams, laborious \ respiration, heavy yet unrefreshing sleep, an in- clination to sigh without any moral cause, cramp I in the legs at night when there is no irrita- 1 tion of the bowels to account for them, &c., ! &c. When any of these symptoms occur (es- ‘ pecially in “free livers”) aperient medicines and a light diet should he at once had recourse I to, and wine, beer, and spirits, avoided as the I most dangerous poisons. If the symptoms i increase or continue, active pm’gation, a still I lower diet, and even bleeding may be had I recourse to. Pure air, early rising, regular I habits, gentle muscular exercise, and loose, I easy clothing, are powerful preventives of • apoplexy. By attending to the admonitions 1 of nature, and adopting the simple means ' which are within the reach of all, it is indis- I putable that many fatal cases of apoplexy I might have been avoided, and a still larger ; number lessened in severity, i Robust, plethoric persons, with short thick j necks, are universally accounted the most I liable to apoplexy. In them the fit generally ' comes on without warning; and when once 1 attacked with this malady they are espe- [ daily liable to its recurrence. But it must 1 be recollected that the possessor of no par- I ticular constitution or temperament, to what- ! ever class it may belong, enjoys immunity I from the attacks of apoplexy—a disease more I fatal among Englishmen than the natives of I other countries. ! Obs. A loss of consciousness exists alike in ; apoplexy, epilepsy, narcotism from opium and ! opiates, complete intoxication, and common j fainting. These may be distinguished by ob- i serving that—in EriLEPSY there are almost I always convulsions, and more or less rigidity of the limbs, with (generally) foaming at the j mouth and gnashing or grinding of the teeth, I and frequently, the utterance of noises often I not unlike the barking of a dog; whilst i stertor and laborious breathing, as a rule, are I absent:—in the stupor produced by opium, t moephia, &c., the face is pale, calm, and per- j spiring, and the respiration is tranquil and I without stertor; whilst the patient can, in j almost all cases, be temporarily aroused to consciousness and kept awake by being made I to walk between two attendants; the odour of opium or laudanum is also frequently per- I ceptible in the breath or ejected matter :—in ■ the insensibility of intoxication the pulse is I usually feeble, and the patient may be tem- 1 porarily roused by violent shouting in the ear, : or by the application of nasal stimulants. particularly the common smelling-bottle (if strong); and the breath, and ejected matter (if any), smells of liquor: — in ordinary painting- the face and lips are pale, the breathing quiet, the pulse scarcely perceptible, the limbs mobile, and the fit lasts only a few minutes. Apoplexy is a disease of middle age and advanced life:—epilepsy, on the contrary, belongs principally to an earlier period—to childhood and puberty.” ^ Apoplexy is commonly supposed to arise from the effusion of blood or serous fluid upon the 'surface, or into the substance, or between the membranes of the brain, or from engorge- ment of its blood vessels, which remain as ‘lesions’ discoverable on dissection; but, in some cases, the condition of the brain after death from apoplexy is, to all appearance, natural or healthy. See Headache, Steetoe, Veetigo, &c. APOR'ETIRE (tm). Syn. ApoeetTo Acid. One of the three resins obtained from rhubarb by Schlossberger and Bopping. It is a black, glossy mass, slightly soluble in hot alcohol, in ether, and in water; and very soluble in potassa and ammonia. APOSEP'EDINE (din). A peculiar crystal- lisable substance found in putrid cheese, and supposed to be formed by the oxidation of its caseine. AP'OSTEMEf (-teme or -tern). Syn. Ap'- osTEMf; AposTE'MAf, L. An abscess or collec- tion of purulent matter in any part of the body, APOTH'ECARY. Syn. Apotheca"eius, L. ; Apothicaiee, Fr.; Apothekee, Ger. Pri- marily, one who keeps a shop, store, or ware- house ; appr. (at present), a member of the Aj)o- thecaries' Company, or a dispenser of medicine also qualified and licensed to practice medicine and surgery, and so distinguished from a mere dispensing or pharmaceutical chemist. In technical language, a ‘ general practitioner.’ It was formerly commonly used in this country to denote any medical practitioner who also dispenses and deals in drugs. By the Act of Parliament “ for better regulating the practice of apothecaries,” unqualified persons prescrib- ing or practising as apothecaries for gain, are punishable by fine, and, in default, imprison- ment.^ In all other countries than these realms, the business of the apothecary is confined entirely to selling drugs, and compounding and dis- pensing prescriptions. See Medical Act, Medicine, Suegeey, Weights and Mea- SUEES, &c. AP'OTHEMf (-them). Syn. Ap'OTHEMEf (-them); ApOTn'EMAf, L. In chemistry, oxi- dised extractive matter, such as is deposited from the infusions or decoctions of vegetables when submitted to prolonged evaporation in contact with the air. AP'OZEMf (-o-zem). Syn. Apoz'ema, L.; 1 Thomas’s Frac. of Physic," 11th ed., i. 623, 2 55 Geo. 111., c. 194, 5.5.; a,n. 1815.