MEERSCHAUM—MENSTEUATION. 894 stances. Instead, therefore, of ajoplying to the mouth agreeable substances after swal- lowing nauseous medicines, we should prepare it beforehand, in order that the taste of the medicine may not be perceived. Aromatic substances, as orange or lemon peel, &c., chewed just before talcing medicine, effectually pre- vent castor oit, &c., being tasted. In prepar- ing the mouth for bitters, liquorice is the only sweet that should be used, the others creating a peculiarly disagreeable compound taste. We have noticed already the effect of oit of orange peel in correcting the nauseating qualities of copaiba.’ See Dose and PEESCRiBiNa. MEER'SCHAUM. Syn. Ecume de mer, L. A native silicate of magnesia. It has a sp. gr. ranging between 2 6 to 3'4; is readily acted on by acids, and fuses before a powerful blow- pipe into a white enamel. The finest quali- ties are found in Greece and Turkey. Its principal application is to the manufacture of tobacco-pipes. The Germans prepare their pipes for sale by soaking them in tallow, then in white max, and, finally, by polishing them wdth shavegrass. Genuine meerschaum pipes are distinguished from mock ones by the beau- tiful brown colour w^hich they assume after being smoked for some time. Of late years some of the pipemakers have produced a com- position clay pipe, which closely resembles meerschaum in appearance, and is “ warranted to colour well.” This composition, which is comparatively valueless, is made up into pipes of suitable patterns, which are frequently sold to the ignorant for 'meerschaums.'’ ME'GRIM. Syn. Hemiceania, L. A pain affecting one side of the head only, often pe- riodic, like an ague, and generally of a nervous, hysterical, or bilious character. It is c/ct;t<6'wdien there is a strong pulsation, conveying the sensa- tion of a nail piei’cing the part. See Headache. ME'LAM. A curious insoluble powder, dis- covered by Liebig. It is prepared by fusing sulphocyanide of ammonium at a pretty high temperature; or, preferably, from a mixture of sulphocyanide of potassium (perfectly dry), 1 part, and sal ammoniac, 2 parts, treated in the same manner. The residuum in the retort, after being washed with water, is melam. It is a pale buff-coloured, amorphous substance, wdiich is insoluble in water, but soluble in oil of vitriol, with partial decomposition. ME'EAMINE. A basic substance disco- vered by Liebig. It is prepared by dissolving melam in a mixture of hydrate of potassa, 1 part, and water, 20 parts, evaporating the liquid until crystalline scales begin to form, and then allowing it slowly to cool. The re- sulting crystals are purified by re-solution and recrystalirzation. It forms very pale yellowy transparent crystals, wdiich are soluble in hot water, fusible by heat, and may be volatilized w^ith only trifling decomposition. It combines with the acids, and forms crystallizable acidu- lous salts. See Ammeline. 1 See page 478. MEL'AHCHOLY. See HYPOCHo:^^DRIASI3 and Insanity. MELAH'IC ACID. A black powder disco- vered by Piria, and formed Avhen salicilite of potassium is exposed to the air until it turns black. In this state the mass consists of acetate of potassa and melanic acid. MELAH'ILINE. The action of dry chloride of cyanogen upon anhydrous aniline gives rise to the formation of a resinous substance, which is the ‘ hydrochlorate of melaniline.’ This substance, dissolved in water and mixed with potassa, furnishes melaniline under the form of an oily liquid, which rapidly solidifies to a beautiful crystalline mass. MELASIHIC ACID. A product of the de- composition of grape sugar. Prep. Pour a hot saturated solution of baryta or of caustic potassa or soda on melted grape sugar, dissolve, and continue the heat until the mixture turns of a deep brown, then precipitate the liquid with an excess of hydro- chloric acid, and wash the resulting black powder, first with dilute hydrochloric acid, and next with water. MELIS'SIC ALCOHOL. A substance ob- tained by Brodie from bees' wax. By oxida- tion it yields ‘ melissic acid.-* MELLA'GO. The old name for a medicine having the consistence of honey, with a some- what sweetish taste. Mellago taraxaci is fluid extract of dandelion. MELLI'TTC ACID. A substance discovered by Klaproth in a very rare mineral called ‘ mel- lite’ or ‘ honey stone.^ Prep. From mellite or honey stone, reduced to powder, and boiled in about 70 times its weight of water ; the resulting solution being subsequently filtered, evaporated, and crystal- lized. Prop., S;c. Small, colourless needles; perma- nent in the air; soluble in both water and alcohol, and in boiling oil of vitriol; reaction, strongly acid. It forms salts, which are called ‘ mellitates’ with the bases. Those of the alkalies are soluble and crystallizable; those of the earths, amorphous and insoluble. MEL'LOH. In chemistry, a compound of carbon and nitrogen, discovered by Liebig. It remains at the bottom of the retort, under the form of a yellow pov.’der, when the yellow substance commonly known as ‘sulphocyano- gerC is exposed in a dry state to heat. It is insoluble in alcohol, water, and dilute acids, and is decomposed by concentrated acids, alka- lies, and a strong red heat. It combines with the metals, forming mellonides. MEL'TING-POIHT. The temperature at which solids assume the liquid form. MEE'STRUA'TIOII. Syn. Menstruatio, L. In this country the menses or catamenia usually make their appearance in the female between the 14th and 18th year; the precise time being greatly infliunced by the state of the health, and the worldly condition of the patient. The changes which then occur need