1 Giuham. ^ Odling. teas full of frogs, which had been successively HYPOCHLORITES—HYPOPHOSPHITES. 719 by danger, and should be performed only on a small scale. It may bo liquefied by cold. The aqueous solution possesses powerful bleach- ing properties. Salts of this acid have not yet been obtained. HYPOCHLO"RITES. See Hypochloeoits Acid. IIYP0CHL0"R0US ACID. Spi. Peotoxide OF CHLOEINE, HyPOCHLOEOUS ANUYDEIDE. A gaseous compound discovered by Davy in 1811. Prep. 1. (Davy.) By agitating together a mixture of red oxide of mercury, 1 part, and water, 2 parts, contained in a bottle filled with chlorine gas. The filtered liquid is a solution of hypochlorous acid. It may be purified by distillation at a temperature con- siderably below 212^ Fahr., as at that heat it suffers rapid decomposition. 2, (Pelouze.) Red oxide of mercury (pre- pared by precipitation, and dried by exposure to a strong heat), is introduced into a glass tube kept cool by ice, and ivell-washed, dry chlorine gas is slowly passed over it, and the gas collected by displacement. Ohs. When the flask or bottle in which the gas is received is exposed to artificial cold by the aid of a mixture of ice and salt, the hypo- chlorous acid condenses to a deep-red liquid, slowly soluble in water, and very subject to explosion. Prep., It bleaches powerfully, and is readily decomposed by light and contact with various substances, especially powdered glass and other angular bodies. The salts called iiYPOCHLOEiTES are formed by neutralizing this acid with hydrates. The compounds po- pularly called ‘chlorides^ of lime, soda, and potash, are mixtures of hypochlorites and chlo- rides. HYPOCHONDRI'ASIS. Syn. Hypochondei- ACI3M. The ‘ hip’ or ‘hyp,’ the ‘vapours,’ de- pression of spirits, ‘ blue devils.’ Tliis disease chiefly affects persons of the melancholic tem- perament, and is commonly induced by hard study, irregular habits of life, want of pro- per social intercourse, living in close apart- ments, and insufficient out-of-door exercise. The treatment may, in most cases, be similar to that recommended for dy'SPEpsia, observing, however, that success depends more on amus- ing and engaging the mind, and in gradually weaning it from old conceits, than in the mere administration of medicine. When the patient is tormented with a visionary or exaggerated sense of pain, or of some concealed disease, or a whimsical dislike of certain persons, places, or things, or groundless apprehensions of i^er- sonal danger or poverty, or the conviction of having experienced some dreadful accident or misfortune, the better way is to avoid any direct attempts to alter his opinions, but to endeavour to inspire confidence in some me- thod of relief. Greding mentions the case of a medical man who conceived that his stomach spawning ever since he had bathed, v*^hen a boy, in a pool in which he had perceived sonie tadpoles; and he had spent his life in endea- vouring to get them removed. One patient, perhaps, fancies himself a giant; another, as heavy as lead; a third, a feather, in continual danger of being blown away by the wind ; and a fourth, a, piece of glass, and is hourly fearful of being broken. Marcellus Dentatus men- tions a baker of Ferrara who thought himself a lump of butter, and durst not sit in the sun, or come near the fire, for fear of being melted. The writer of this article once knew a man who always put on his coat the wrong side in front, because he conceived his face looked behind him. In such cases it is useless to argue with the patient, as it only causes irritation, and in- ! creases the malady. The restoration of the bodily health, and a sudden surprise or change of scene, will often effect a cure. HYPOGAS'TRIC. In anatomy, pertaining to the HYPOGAs'xEirM, that is, the abdominal space above the pubes, and below the line of the anterior superior spinous processes of the iliac bones. HYPONI'TRIC ACID. Syn. Peeoxide of Niteogen,^ Peeniteic Oxide.2 a compound of nitrogen and oxygen in the proportion of 14 parts by weight of the former to 32 parts of the latter. It is the chief constituent of the orange fumes produced by mixing binoxide of nitrogen -with oxygen or air, and is contained in the deep-red fuming nitric acid (the so- called ‘ NITEOUS ACID ’) of Commerce. Prep. 1. Binoxide of nitrogen, 4 volumes, oxygen, 2 volumes, are incorporated by passing through a tube filled with broken porcelain ; dried by passing over pumice soaked in oil of vitriol, and then over recently fused potassa ; and, finally, submitted to the action of a freez- ing mixture of salt and ice. 2. Nitrate of lead, carefully dried, is exposed to heat in a retort of hard glass, which is con- nected with a receiver placed in a freezing mixture, and furnished with a safety-tube. A mixture of hyponitric acid and oxygen is evolved; the former is condensed, and the lat- ter escapes by the safety-tube. Prop. It condenses into transparent crystals, or if the slightest trace of water be pi’esent, into a nearly colourless liquid. At about 16° Fahr. the crystals melt into a mobile liquid, which acquires a yellow and ultimately a red tint, as the temperature rises. At 72° Fahr. the liquid boils, giving off“ its well-known brown-red suffbeating vapour. It is doubted whether the term ‘ acid’ is applicable to this compound. HYPONI'TROUS ACID. See Niteods Acid. HYPOPHOS'PHITES. The salts of hypo- phosphorous acid. Tliey have been higlily recommended as remedies in the treatment of cases of general debility and ill-health, and have also been proposed for the treatment of consumption. The American pharmaceutists,