BAKYTA. 271 from the latter that baryta and its salts are almost exclusively obtained. Prep. 1. A mixture of carbonate of baryta and charcoal (both in fine powder and moist- ened) is strongly ignited^ for some time, in a porcelain, Hessian, or black-lead crucible, and then allowed to cool out of contact with the air, from which it must also be subsequently carefully preserved.^ 2. (Pure.) Crystallised nitrate of baryta is calcined in a capacious covered porcelain or Hessian crucible^^ at a bright red-heat, until red (nitrous) vapours are no longer disengaged, even on raising the temperature ; and the re- siduum, as soon as the temperature has fallen sufficiently, but whilst still warm, is at once transferred to a bottle, as before. Prop. A grayish-white, spongy, earthy-look- ing mass, fusible only before the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe; highly caustic, corrosive, and alka- line, and slaking, like quick-lime, on the ad- dition of water, but with the evolution of more heat. It then forms a bulky white pow’der (uy'drate of baeyta), containing 10^ § of water of hydration, which it retains even after ignition. In this state it is soluble in 20 parts of cold water, and in 2 parts of boiling water. The hot saturated solution, as it cools, deposits abundantly columnar crystals (ceys'tallised HYDEATE OF B.), whicli Contain 51^ § of water, of which they lose, by drying and ignition, 88||J (= 45f§ of their weight), being reduced to tlie state of the common or amorphous hy- drate first noticed. Of all the bases it has the strongest affinity for both sulphuric and car- bonic acid; and hence its solution (baey'ta- watee) and those of its neutral salts {nitrate or chloride) form our most sensitive tests for these substances. Sp. gr., 4‘3 to 4*7. With the acids it forms salts which are all white, and more or less transparent. Some of them are soluble in water; one or two only are so- luble in alcohol, and that very sparingly ; and (with the exception of the sulphate), they are all extremely poisonous. They may be prepared by saturating solutions of the acias with either baryta-water, or carbonate of baryta; and some of them may be prepared by double decompo- sition. Tests. Baryta and its salts are known by the following reactions :—1. They are all (except the sulphate) soluble either in water or in dilute hydrochloric acid; whilst the nitrate and hy- di’ochlorate are nut soluble in aqueous solutions of their respective acids :—2. Their solutions give an immediate heavy clear-white precipitate with dilute sulphuric acid, and with solutions of the sulphates, which is insoluble in dilute acids and solutions of the alkalies and of the salts of ammonia, that with a solution of sulphate of lime being very sensitive and character- ^ Fiesen'us rcconmiends a mixture of WHherite, 20 parts ; charcoal, 2 parts; and resin, 1 part. Or oi Withe- rite, lOU parts; ciikiny-coul, 15 parts; lire lid lo be luted on with clay, Ao/e 2 (helotc^. ® Fresenius recommends the use of an irou-crucible. See llYDKATJi or llAKrTA. istic:—3. Hydrofiuosilicic acid gives a very characteristic colourless crystalline and quickly subsiding precipitate, only slightly soluble in hydrochloric acid and nitric acid; alcohol, in equal volume, beiug added, so hastens arid com- pletes the reaction, that the filtrate is unaf- fected by sulphuric acid :—4. Chromate of po- tassa gives a bright yellow precipitate in neu- tral solutions, soluble in hydrochloric acid and in nitric acid, but insoluble in acetic acid:— 5. Caustic potassa or soda (when quite free 1 from carbonate), and caustic ammonia, cause j no precipitate except in highly concentrated solutions :—6. Alkaline carbonates give a heavy white precipitate with baryta-water or a solu- tion of baryta, and which is all but insoluble in water, and freely soluble in dilute hydro- chloric acid :—7. Heated with proof spirit, or pyroxilic spirit, the barytic salts give a greenish yellowish tinge to t\\e flame :—8. The barytic salts, and particularly the chloride, i when exposed on a platinum-wire to the I ‘ inner ’ flame of the blowpipe, colour the ‘ outer^ flame yellowish-green:—9. An ‘ inso- luble barytic salt ’ {sulphate) may be mixed with powdered charcoal, and exposed for a short time to a full red heat, when sulphuret of barium will be formed, which is freely so- luble in water, and which, after being neutral- ised with hydrochloric acid, or acetic acid, will yield a solution suitable to the application of the usual tests. The carbonate, and the salts of baryta with the organic acids, are all con- vertible into pure baryta by exposure, for some time, to a bright red heat. Baryta is distinguished from ‘lime’ and from ‘magnesia’ % its great solubility in hot water, by the entire insolubility of its sulphate, and by the reactions 2 & 3 {above);—from ‘ STEONTIA,’ by being precipitated by hydro- fluosilicic acid, and by not giving a red colour to the flame of alcohol;—from ‘alemina,’ by its causticity and alkaline reaction, and by not being precipitated from its solution in water, by hydrosulphuret of ammonia. Pois., 6(c. The sulphate, owing to its insolubility, is the only salt of baryta which is not poisonous.—Symp. Nausea, vomiting, pains in the head, ringing in the ears, ver- tigo, and intermitting cramps and convul- sions; the respiration is frequently suspended for several moments, and the pupil is gene- rally dilated. The symptoms, however, often vary, and are not very distinctive.— Treatm., I ant., (ifc. Vomiting, followed by copious I draughts of water soured with sulphuric I acid, or sulphate of soda {Glauber-salt) or j sulphate of magnesia {Epsom-sail), dissolved in a large quantity of water. When carbonate of baryta has been swallowed, a mixture of one I of the above sulphates and weak vinegar should 1 be taken after the vomiting, in order that a soluble barytic salt may be first formed, on I which the alkaline sulphate will act more j readily. Subsequent irritation may be soothed by opium or morphia, and antiphlogistics.