373 BURGLARIES—BUTTER. > i mgar, 6 oz.; a little carawayginger; make a paste with yeast, 4 spoonfuls, and warm milk, q. s.; as before. 5. Penny-buns :—To the last add of cur- rants, well washed, ^ lb.; and water, stained by steeping a little saffron in it, q. s. to give a light yellow-tinge to them. 6. Rich buns :—a. Fine ffour, 3 lb. ; sugar, 1 lb.; butter, 2 lb. (melted, and beat with); I rose water, 4 oz.; currants, 1 lb.; yeast, i ! pint; as before. I b. Bath-buns :—As the last, but adding a I little candied lemon and orange peel, and put- ! ting a little grated peel and a few caraway I comfits on the top of each. I Obs. The great secret in producing good I buns is, the use of sweet yeast and the best ! currants only, and thoroughly washing these ' last in a sieve or colander, to remove grit, I before adding them to the dough. The buns I of most of the shops are bitter and gritty, ! from the neglect of these precautions. An 1 eminent London pastrycook informs us that he finds it more difficult to get a “ good hand at buns” than in any other department of his trade. BURG'LARIES. The common precautions j of locks and bolts, alarum-bells and fire-arms, are frequently found useless in preserving I houses from burglars; but a light in the upper part of the house, or a small dog on the ground- ; fioor, with the means of running into a place i of safety from its enemies, has been seldom { known to fail. A combination of the two j would undoubtedly be doubly effective. The I bark of the dog, and the fear of detection by i the approach of the light, would deter the majority of rogues of common pluck and feeling. A dog out of dooi*s, and conse- quently accessible, however large and fierce, is easily pacified or silenced by men of the class Preferred to. BURNS 1 and Scalds.- Treatm. When the j injury is superficial and slight, a little creosote may be applied to the part. If a scald, the vesicle should be first pierced with a needle, or w’hat is better, snipped with a pair of scis- I sors, and the water which it contains should be j then gently squeezed out. When ‘ creosote ’ ' is not procurable, a liniment formed of equal i parts of soft soap, basilicon-ointment, oil of I turpentine, and water, may be used instead. I When the part feels very hot and painful, a i poidtice may be applied, on the surface of I w’hich a few drops of creosote, or of the lini- \ ment, should be spread with a knife. This I treatment will generally succeed in allaying ! the pain. It may be followed by a dressing of 1 spermaceti-ointment, or any other like simple ' emollient or unctuous preparation. Creosote, I contrary to what is commonly asserted, pro- i duces scarcely any smarting or pain; w'hilst it I rapidly removes the burning sensation, and 1 Burn, s. sing.; Ambus'tio, L.; BRi^LUBK, I'r.; ' Brand, Brandmahl, Gcr. * See Scalds (under S). the charred surface soon assumes a dry scabby appearance, which, by dressing with simple ointment, soon comes off and leaves the part beneath in a sound and healthy state. If a poultice be applied it is best to keep it on until the next day. Plunging the part into very cold water immediately after the receipt of an injury of this kind, will frequently prevent any further remedy being required. In all cases cooling laxatives should be administered; and the diet should be rather low until the inflam- matorv symptoms subside. BURNING-GLASS. See Lens. Burning Mir'ror. See Mieeor (Concave). BUT'TER. [Eng,, Ger.] Syn. Buty'eum^, L.; Beueee, Fr.; Butee, Buteea, Sax. The fatty matter obtained from cream by churn- ing it. Qual., 8fc. Butter is, perhaps, in more general use, and subject to greater variations in quality, than any other substance employed in domestic economy. It is consumed by every grade of society, and, when good, appears not only to be wholesome, but extremely nutritious. Some writers inveigh against the use of butter as universally pernicious; but they might with equal reason condemn the vegetable oils, which form a considerable part of the diet of the inhabitants of southern climates, and seems to have been beneficially intended by nature for that purpose. That butter may be improper in some bilious constitutions, there can be little doubt; but the same objection tells against every other substance iised as food; for in- stances are not uncommon of the most delicate and nutritious articles disagreeing with per- sons, under certain circumstances, or who are of peculiar idiosyncrasy. To obviate all ob- jections, it would be a commendable practice for the bilious, at breakfast, first to eat some dry bread (crust is best), and to chew it well before taking any butter. By these means such a quantity of saliva would be carried into the sfomach as would be sufficient for the purpose of preventing any ill effects from the 3 The ‘ if in this word is common; but generally and correctly made long in prose, which therefore fixes the accent on the penultimate syllable, by which usage agrees with derivation. In poetry we have examples of both, but with the y ‘ long’ in the best authors who use the word.—• “ Caseoque sive hutyro." Scaz. “ Infundens acido comam lutyro." Sidon.; &c. “Cum biUyro modicoque oleo decocta homorem.” iEm, Mao. ‘‘liZLCm\em\\hidyrumque.” Valg.; &;c. The Greek original is ^ovTvpou (jSous-Tupb?), with the penult long; whilst the v in rupos is invariably found long, with the single exception in a doubtful verse in Homer’s “ Batrachomyornachia.” The form hn'tyr (for ‘ butyrum’) also occurs:— “ Omnia sumendo, lac, olus, ova, Venau. It is remarkable that though the u is properly long, it is, by the licence of poetry, made ‘ short,’ in all the above examples. Mayne, in his “ Expos. Lex.," marks this word butyrum (i. e., bu'tyrum). We have consulted the highest living classical lexico- graphers, English and Eoreign, both personally and through their works, and they all agree with us (in the language of one of them), that “in prose the word is correctly biity'rinn," See Butyr.vtk.