OILS (FIXED). 957 i (2. By decoction; Bttttee of b.; Oleum Ilauei nobilis, 0. L. TEEUM, L.) From the 1 berries, by boiling them in water, and skim- |ming off the oil. Green, buttery; chiefly I imported from Italy. Used by the vulgar in I bruises, sprains, rheumatism, deafness, &c. \?rod, 20g. Oil of Beech. Syn. Oleum eagi, L. From I the nuts of Fagus sylvaticu (Linn.), or beech \ mast. Clear; keeps well; when washed with I hot water, it is used for salads, and burnt in I lamps. Sp. gr. -9225. Prod. 16g. ! Oil of Belladon'na. Syn. Oleum bella- I DONNiE SEMiNUM, O. B. BACC.®, L. From the seeds or berries of Atropa belladonna or deadly ' nightshade. Yellow; insipid. Used for lamps in Swabia and Wurtemberg, and as an appli- cation to bruises. The marc is poisonous. It ! freezes at 34° Fahr. Sp. gr. *9250. I Oil of Ben. Syn. Oil of behen ; Oleum iBALATiNUM. From the seeds of Moringa \pterygosperma (ben nuts). Scentless, colour- 'less; keeps long without growing rank; by i standing, it separates into two parts, one of which freezes with difficulty, and is hence much used in perfumery. Oil of Benne Seed. See Oil of Gingellt {below.) Oil of Brazil-nuts. Syn. Oleum beethol- LETI.E. From the kernels of the fruit of Ber- \tholletia excelsa, or Brazil-nuts. An oil of a 'bright amber colour, congealing at 24° Fahr. Sp. gr. ’917. It has been used as a sub- jstitute for olive oil in plasters and oint- i ments. i Oil of Caca'o. Syn. Butteb of c. ; Oleum I CACAO CONCEETUM, BUTTEUM CACAO, L. From jthe seeds of Theobroma Cacao, or chocolate nuts, gently heated over the fire, and then de- 1 corticated, and pressed between hot iron plates, j Sp. gr. *892. j Cas'tor Oil. Syn. Oleum castoeei, O. ei- CINI (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “ The oil prepared by heat, or by pressure, from the seed” of I “ Ricinus communis, Linn.” (Ph. L.), the Palma ' Christi, or Mexican oil-bush. The best castor oil (cold-deawn castoe j OIL; OLEUM EiciNi SINE igne) is prepared by I pressing the shelled and crushed fruit (seed) in I hemp bags, in an hydraulic press, and heating the oil thus obtained along with water in toeli- 1 tinned vessels, until the water boils and the ! albumen and gum separate as a scum; this is I carefully removed, and the oil, as soon as it has j become cold, is filtered through Canton Jiannel, and put into canisters. The commoner kinds i are prepared by gently heating the crushed I seeds, and pressing them whilst hot. Another i method, sometimes adopted, is to put the i crushed seed into loose bags, to boil these in ' water, and to skim off the floating oil. Prop. It is the most viscid of all the fixed oils; when pure, it mixes in all proportions J with alcohol and ether, and also dissolves, to a i certain extent, in rectified spirit, but a portion of the oil separates on standing. Camphor and benzoic acid increase its solubility in spirit. By long exposure to the air, it be- comes rancid, thick, and is ultimately trans- formed into a transparent yellow mass; light hastens these changes. Exposed to cold, a solid, white, crystalline fat separates from the liquid portion, and when cooled to 0° it con- geals into a yellow transparent mass, w'hich does not again liquefy until the temperature rises to about 18° Fahr. Sp. gr.^ *9611 to •9612, at 60°,; *9690, at 55° (Saussure); •9575, at 77° (Saussure). Pt od. 38 to 40§ (62§—Ure). ... Pur. Castor oil is sometimes adulterated with eape oil or with laed oil, a fraud which may be detected by its diminished density ; and, when the added oil exceeds 33g, by iits insolubility in its own weight of alcohol of •820. In many cases ceoton oil is added to increase the purgative quality of the mix- ture. A compound of this kind is vended in gelatine capsules under the name of ‘ concen- teated castoe oil,’ the use of which is fraught with danger. “ I have heard of seve- ral cases in which very violent and dangerous effects were produced by these capsules.” (Pereira.) The best is imported from the East Indies in tin canisters. The oil obtained from tlie seeds ,of Ricinus^ viridis (Willd.), or lamp-oil seeds, is often mixed with or sold for castor oil. Uses, ^c. Castor oil is an exceedingly useful mild purgative, particularly when abdominal irritation should be avoided, as in inflam- mations of the stomach and bowels, preg- nancy, surgical operations, &c. Bose. 2 fl. dr. to 1 fl. oz. Co'coa-nut Oil. ^ Syn. Cocoa-nut buttee ; Oleum cocois nucifee.e, L. By expres- sion from the kernels of the cocoa nut, ox fruit of the Cocos nuciferay Cod-liver Oil. Syn. Cod-fish oil ; Oleum JECOEIS aseLli, O. gadi, O. g. moeehu.®. Oleum moeehu.® (Ph. L.), L. The oil pre- pared from the liver of Gadus morrhua, Linn.” (Ph. L.) The common cod-liver oil of commerce drains from the livers of the cod-fish when freely ex- posed to the sun, and just beginning to putrefy. It is dark coloured, strong, and nauseous, and is now chiefly employed in this country by the curriers, for dressing leather. It is the ‘OLEUM JECOEIS ASELLI fuscum’ of Conti- nental writers. Formerly, the less fetid varieties of this crude oil, after the impurities were removed, either by subsidence or fil- tration, constituted the only cod-liver oil used in medicine. As its employment as a remedy increased, its revolting flavour, and its great tendency to permanently disorder the stomach and bowels, was found, however, to be a serious obstacle to its general use. It was observed that the oil, as it exists in the liver of the cod, is bland, and nearly colourless, and has only a slight fishy but not a disagreeable flavour. ^ See page 461.