825 LEAD. preparations, may be cautiously administered. A symptom of poisoning by lead is the forma- tion of a narrow leaden blue line, from -^th to ^th of an inch wide, bordering the edges of the gums, attached to the neck of two or more teeth of either jaw. (Dr. Burton.) This de- coloration may often be detected or rendered i more conspicuous by rinsing the mouth out i with water holding a little sulphuretted hydrogen \ or hydrosulphuret of ammonia in solution. Chevallier and Bayer recommend the use of sulphurous or hepatic mineral waters, or of artificial solutions of sulphuretted hydrogen or alkaline sulphurets in water, both in cases of acute and chronic poisoning by lead; but ■ the practical success of this plan does not ap- ! pear to have been in proportion to theoretical i anticipations. The hydrated sulphurets of iron are said by their advocates to be infallible, if taken sufficiently early. Ac'etates of Lead. Acetic acid forms five compound^ with lead. They may be conve- niently noticed under two heads :— 1. Neu'tral Acetate of Lead. Syn. Acetate OF LEAD, NOEMAL A. OF L., SUC^AE OF L.; Plumbi acetas (Ph. L. E. & D.), Saccha- EUM SATUENI, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Oxide of lend (litharge, in powder), 4 lb. 2 oz. ; acetic acid (Ph. L.) and distilled water, of each, 4 pints; mix, dissolve by a gentle heat and agitation, strain, evaporate, and crystallize. In the present Ph. L. and D. this preparation is included in the Materia Medica. 2. (Ph. E.) Litharge, 14 oz.; pyroligneous acid (sp. gr. 1*034), 1 quart; water, 1 pint; as above. 3. (Ph. D. 1826.) Carbonate of lead, 1 part; distilled vinegar, 10 parts ; as before. 4. (Wholesale.)—a. Acetic acid (sp. gr. ' 1*0843), 23 parts, is gently heated in a copper • j boiler rendered * electro-negative’ by means I of a large flat piece of lead soldered within it, and litharge (pure, and in fine powder), 13 ‘ parts, is sprinkled in; the heat is then con- ( tinned, with constant stirring, until the acid » is saturated, when the mother-waters of a former process (if any) are added, and the ; whole is heated to the boiling-point, and al- ' lowed to settle until cold; the clear portion is now decanted, and evaporated in a similar vessel until the liquor has the sp. gr. 1*266 or 1*267, when it is run into salt-glazed stone- ! ware vessels (the edges of which have beeif well smeared with candle grease), and allowed to crystallize. The product is 38 to 38^ parts of crystallized sugar of lead. It is found to be advantageous to preserve a very slight excess of acid during the boiling and crystallization, to prevent the formation of any basic acetate, the presence of which impedes the formation of regular crystals. b. Prom litharge, 112 lb.; acetic acid (sp. gr. 1*057), 128 lb. (or its equiv.). Prod. 180 to 184 lb. Prop. Pure acetate of lead forms colourless, . transparent, prismatic crystals, slightly efflor- escent in dry air; it is soluble in 8 parts of alcohol and in I5 part of cold water; the aqueous solution has a sweet astringent taste, and feebly reddens litmus, but turns turmeric and the juice of violets green; when gently heated, it melts in its water of crystalliza- tion ; by continuing the heat, the whole of the water is expelled, and the dry acetate obtained ; at a higher temperature the salt suffers decomposition, and acetic acid, ace- tone, &c., is given off. ‘ Commercial acetate of lead’ is in general a confused crystalline mass, somewhat resembling broken lump- sugar. It is powerfully astringent and pois- onous. Pur. Acetate of lead is completely soluble in distilled water acidulated with acetic acid, forming a transparent solution; and when the lead is exactly precipitated with dilute sulphuric acid, or by sulphuretted hydrogen, the clear su- pernatant liquid is wholly volatilized by heat without residue. “ Carbonate of soda throws down a white precipitate; iodide of potassium, a yellow one; by sulphuretted hydrogen it is blackened. Sulphuric acid disengages from it acetic vapours. If to 100 gr. dissolved in water, sulphate of soda be added, 80 gr. of sulphate of lead are precipitated.” (Ph. L.) Uses, Sfc. Acetate of lead is extensively em- ployed in dyeing and calico-printing. In me- dicine, it is used as an astringent, styptic, and hsemostatic; in pulmonary, uterine, and in- testinal haemorrhage, colliquative diarrhoea, phthisical sweats, &c. It is usually combined with morphia or opium, and with acetic acid to prevent it passing into the state of the poisonous carbonate in the stomach. Dose. i gr. to 2 gr. (Collier) ; 1 or 2 gr. to 8 or 10 gr,, twice or thrice a day (Pereira) ; 3 gr. to 10 gr., every 6 or 8 hours (A. T. Thomson). Externally, as a collteium, 10 gr. to water, 8 fl. oz. (A. T. Thomson); as a lotion, 20 gr. (A. T. Thomson), 1 dr. (Collier), to water, 8 or 10 fl. oz.; as an INJECTION, 40 gr. to rose water, ^ pint. The lotion is cooling and seda- tive, and is commonly used in excoriations, local inflammations, &c. 2. Ba'sic Acetates of Lead. The four basic acetates of lead are the sesquibasic acetate, the DIBASIC A., the teibasic a., and the sex- basic A., having respectively 1^, 2, 3, and 6 equivalents of lead to 1 equiv. of acetic acid. The solutions of the whole of them exhibit a strong alkaline reaction, and absorb carbonic acid with great avidity, becoming turbid from the precipitation of basic carbonate. Prep. 1. (Sesquibasic acetate.) By heating neutral acetate of lead till it melts, and, subsequently, solidifies in a white porous mass; dissolving in water, evaporating and crystallizing. 2. (Bibasic acetate.) By dissolving the proper proportion of litharge in solution of NEUTEAL ACETATE OF LEAD, and collecting the deposited crystals. b. (Teibasic acetate, subacetate.)—a.