233 ASH—ASPARAGINE. excel'siob (Linn.), F. apet'ala (Lamb.), F. : or'nus (Scop.), L.; Feene, F. commun, Fr. Gemeine esche, Ger. A large tree common to our woods and hedges; timber (ash or ash- wood), used by carpenters, cabinet-makers, j and machinists, and much esteemed for its I great toughness and elasticity ; hark, febrifuge, diuretic, resolvent, and tonic; has been success- fully exhibited in agues; seeds, acrid, bitter, and diuretic; leaves, purgative, diuretic, and I febrifuge; sometimes used instead of senna. ! In southern Europe it exudes an inferior kind of MANNA, and its medicinal properties are much greater than in our climate.—Dose. I (Leaves) ^ oz. to 1^ oz. (made into an infu- I sion), as a purge; seeds, 1 dr., as a diuretic, &c. i Flow'ering Ash. Syn. Man'na-ash ; Feax'- INUS oe'nus (Linn.), L. A small tree of ' southern Europe. Yields manna. The ‘ round'- I leaved flowering-ash ’(Cala'beian-ash ; eeax'- j INUS eotundifo"lia, Lamarck) is a smaller variety of the preceding, and a native of Ca- labria and the Levant. Said to yield the best manna. The ‘ small'-leaved flowering-asK I (feax'inus paevifo"lia, Lam.), is another ' manna-yielding species, indigenous to Asia Minor. ASH. Ashes (which see). I ASH'-BALLS. The ashes of land-plants, I especially ferns, damped and made into balls, j Used as a substitute for soap in washing, and in cleaning paint. ASH'-FIREf. In old chemistry and phar- macy, a low fire made with cinders or partly consumed fuel. I ASHEBT. [Amer.] A place where potash or pearlash is made or kept. ASH'ES (-iz). [Eng. pi.] Syn. Ash; Ci'- Nis, L.; Cendees (/>/.), Fr.; Asche, Ger. ! The remains of anything burned. In antiquity, the remains of a body consumed on the funeral pyre; and hence, figuratively, the remains of the dead. The word, in English, has properly no singular; although ‘ ash ’ is very commonly heard; and is now almost exclusively used in ; composition, as mpearlash, potash, soda-ash, ^c. I Ashes. In commerce, the residuum of the 1 combustion of vegetable substances containing either carbonate of poiassa (‘land-plants’), or I carbonate of soda (‘marine plants’), and from ‘ which the commercial alkalies are obtained. ! Their value depends upon their richness in ‘ al- kali,’ which is determined in the manner ex- plained under alkalimetey. The word is also commonly employed as a general term for the crude carbonates of potash of commerce (which see). I Ashes of Plants. See Mantjees, Plants, (.Vegetation, &c. ! ASP (asp). Syn. As'pis, L., Gr.; Egtp'- TIAN HOOD'ED-Vl'PEE ; ASPIC, Fr. ; NaJA HAGE, El h., Ar.; Vi'peea ha'ge, Cuv. A species of small poisonous serpent of Egypt and Libya, frequently noticed by ancient writers, on ac- count of the fatal efiects of its bite, which is I said to induce sleep, and death, without pain. within three hours. It was the instrument selected by the beautiful but frail Cleopatra wherewith to terminate her unfortunate ex- istence, and to bereave her conqueror of the chief feature of his triumph.^ Asp. The aspen (which see). ASPAR'AGINE (-a-jm). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Althe'ine, Aspae'amide, Mal'amide*; Aspa- eagi'na, Aspaeagi'nijm, L. ; Agedoile, Fr. ; Spaegelstoff, Ger. A peculiar azotised prin- ciple discovered by Vauquelin and Robiquet in asparagus, and since found in the potato, marsh-mallow, liquorice, climbing vetch, and several other plants. Many plants which do not naturally contain it may be made to yield it by growing them in dark damp cellars; whilst many which only normally contain it in very small quantities, are found to yield much more when allowed to vegetate in the same manner. Prep. 1. From aspaeagus-speotjts ;—The expressed juice after being heated to the boiling-point (to coagulate albumen) and care- fully skimmed and filtered, is evaporated, at a gentle heat, to a syrupy consistence, and then abandoned to spontaneous evaporation in a warm dry atmosphere for several days; the resulting crystals being purified by cautious washing with very cold water or very strong alcohol, re-solution, and re-crystallisation. The following are cheaper and more con- venient processes:— 2. From Maeshmallow-eoot :—a. The root (chopped small, or grated) is macerated for several days in milk of lime, in the cold, the ‘filtered liquid’ precipitated with car- bonate of ammonia, and the clear solution evaporated in a water-bath, and otherwise treated as before. b. From the expressed juice, 2 parts; milk of lime, 1 part; agitated well together; the liquid portion, after some hours, being de- canted, filtered, and evaporated, &c., as before. 3. From the etiolated shoots of vetches : —The expressed juice of the young shoots when from 2 or 3 to even 12 or 15 inches long, is gently simmered for 8 or 10 minutes, to coagulate the albumen, and, after straining or clarification, the ‘clear liquid’ is gently evaporated to the consistence of a thin syrup, and set aside to crystallise, as before. The resulting brown crystals are purified by wash- ing with very cold water, re-solution in boiling water, and re-crystallisation, as in No. 1; or, and what is better, the ‘hot liquid,’ before evaporation to a syrup, is digested for a short time with a little pure animal-charcoal in coarse powder, and then filtered, when large 1 It is now the general opinion, tliat ‘ el haj'e' of the Arabs, is the ‘ asj>is' of the ancients, agreeing as it does with the principal characters assigned to this animal; more especially that by Pliny—“eolla aspidum intu- mescere” (lib. viii.), in which it resembles the ‘ cobra di capello,’ another species of the same genus. The only point which renders this opinion doubtful is, that ‘ el huge’ varies from 3 to 5 feet in length, a size greater than that usually assigned to Cleopatra’s asp. See Cobha., Toxi- cology, &c.