ETHER. S96 are collected and purified by solution and crys- tallization in hot alcohol or boiling water. Prop., Sfc. Tasteless, inodorous, colourless, transparent needles and prisms; fusing at 185° Fahr. Form'ic Ether. Sgn. Formate oe oxide op ETHYL; iFTHER PORMicus, L. Prep. (Liebig.) Dry formate of soda,^ parts; oil of vitriol, alcohol of 90g, 6 parts; mix in a retort con- nected with a well-cooled receiver. The greater part will distil over by the heat spontaneously developed, after which the heat of a water bath may be applied. Purify by agitation, first with milk of lime, and afterwards with chloride of calcium. It is limpid, smells aro- matic, is lighter than water, soluble in 10 parts of that fluid, and boils at 133° Fahr. Sp. gr. *915. Hydrio'dic Ether. Syn. Iodide op ethyl; JiiTHER HYDRIODICDS, L. Prep. 1. PhoS- phorus, 4 parts, alcohol (sp. gr. *84), 70 parts, and iodine, 100 parts, are gradually and cau- tiously mixed together, and distilled. 2. By heating in a sealed glass vessel a mixture of hydriodic acid and olefiant gas. Prop., H{‘c. A colourless liquid, possessing a strong ethereal odour, and boiliug at 158° Fahr.; sp. gr. 1‘92. It is reddened and de- composed by exposure to air and light. Hydrohro'mic Ether. Syii. Bromide op ETHYL ; iFTHER HYDROBROMICUS, L. A vola- tile, ethereal liquid, discovered by Serullas. Prep. Bromine, 8 parts; alcohol, 32 parts; dissolve, place the mixture in a retort, add of phosphorus, 1 part, and distil by a gentle heat as soon as tbe liquid becomes cold. The ether is separated from the distillate by the addi- tion of water. Prop., 8(c. A very volatile liquid, with a penetrating taste and smell; boiling at 105° Fahr.; and heavier than water. Hydrochlo"ric Ether. Syn. Light hydro- chloric E., Chloride op ethyl; .SIther HYDROCHLORICUS, L. A highly volatile com- pound, formed of ethyl and chlorine. Prep. 1. Rectified spirit of wine is saturated with dry hydrochloric acid gas, in the cold, and the product is distilled in a retort con- nected with a Woolfe’s apparatus, the first bottle of which should be two thirds filled with tepid water (70° to 75° Fahr.), and the re- mainder surrounded with a mixture of ice and salt. To render it perfectly anhydrous, it must be digested on a few fragments of fused chlo- ride of calcium. 2. (Th^nard.) From a mixture of concen- trated hydrochloric acid and absolute alcohol, equal volumes; distilled as last. 3. A mixture of oil of vitriol, 3 parts, and alcohol, 2 parts, is poured upon common salt (dried), 4 parts; and the whole distilled as before. Prop., ^c. This ether has a sweetish taste; is soluble in about 15 parts of water, and mis- cible in all proportions with alcohol; boils at 54° Fahr,; burns with a flame edged with green; is neutral to test paper; and does not affect a solution of nitrate of silver. Sp. gr. •921, at 32° Fahr. Dose. 10 to 30 drops, as' an antispasmodic and a powerful diffusible stimulant. Owing to its extreme volatility, it can only be taken dissolved in spirit. Of the above, the first is the most convenient process. Hydrocyan'ic Ether. Syn. Cyanide of ethyl; .^ther hydrocyanicds, L. Prep. (Magendie.) Cyanide of potassium and sulpho- vinate of baryta, equal parts, are mixed and distilled in a glass retort by a moderate heat. The product separates into two strata; the lighter one is impure hydrocyanic ether; this is decanted and agitated with 4 or 5 times its bulk of water at 120° to 140° Fahr., and the operation is repeated with about 2 parts ol water; the ether is again decanted, and placed in contact with chloride of calcium for 24 hours, and then rectified. Prop., (^c. It boils at 190° Fahr. Sp. gr, •788. In its therapeutical effects it resem- bles hydrocyanic acid, but is less active. Itf odour is, however, more penetrating and offen- sive. Dose. 2 to 6 drops, in mucilage or emulsion; in obstinate or convulsive coughs., gastrodynia, hysterical affections, &c. Margar'ic Ether. Syn. Margarate oi OXIDE OF ETHYL; .®THER MARGARICUS, L Prep. By passing dry hydrochloric acid gat into an alcoholic solution of margaric acid, as for butyric ether. By cautious evaporatior it forms brilliant, colourless crystals, which when pure, melt at 72° Fahr., and may be dis tilled without decomposition. Methy'lic Ether. Syn. Oxide of methyl Wood-ether, Methyl-ether; iETHER me THYLicus, L. Prep. From wood-spirit, 1 part concentrated sulphuric acid, 4 parts; mix in t retort, apply heat, pass the evolved gas {me thylic ether) through a little strong solution Oj, potassa, and then collect it over mercury. Se< Methyl. Muriat'ic Ether (Light). See Hydrochlo- ric Ether. Muriatic Ether (Heavy). Syn. iETHER mu RiATicus PONDEROSUS, L. A name given b) Scheele to a heavy ethereal liquid obtained b} distilling a mixture of oil of vitriol, peroxidi of manganese, chloride of sodium, and alcohol. 2. (Liebig.) Alcohol, of 80 to 85§, is satu rated, in the cold, with chlorine gas, water h next added, and the oilj’^ fluid that separates collected and washed with water, as long as any of it is dissolved. Prop., 8^c. Heavy muriatic ether is a vola tile, oily, colourless liquid, boiling at aboul 245° Fahr., and heavier than water. Its pre cise constitution is undetermined. This ethei enters into the composition of the spiRiTUf MURiATico-ETHEREUS, a remedy occasionally used on the Continent. Ni'tric Ether. Syn. Nitrate of oxide oi! ETHYL; .^THER NITRICUS, L. A COmpOUn( obtained by means of the peculiar action whicl urea exerts on the acid.