DECOCTION. 509 1 application to abraded or wounded surfaces, as j cracked lips, nipples, &c.; and to the skin in 1 erysipelas, to painful liaemorrboidal tumours, j and the like. Prepared with a little less I water, it is used by the hairdresser as ‘ han- ! doline’ or ^fixateur.' ' Decoction of Rice. Syn. Rice watee. Rice deink; Decoctuivi OET'ZiE, L. Prep. Rice, I 2 oz.; water, 1 quart; boil to one half, and I strain. Demulcent. A good drink in fevers, j coughs, &c., either alone or sweetened and 1 flavoured with a little lemon peel. Decoction of Sarsaparilla. Syn. Decoctijm 1 SAE'z^ (Ph. L. A E.), D. SAESAPAEILLJE (Ph. ' D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Sarsaparilla (sliced), : 5 oz.; water, 2 quarts; boil to a quart, and strain. 2. (Ph. E.) Sarsaparilla, 5 oz.; boiling dis- j tilled water, 4 pints; macerate for 2 hours, in a vessel lightly covered, and placed in a warm situation; then take out the root, bruise it, return it again to the liquor, boil down to a I quart, and strain. 1 3. (Ph. D.) Sarsaparilla, 2 oz.; boiling ! water, 1^ pint; digest an hour, boil 10 minutes, cool, and strain. Obs. The medicinal virtues of sarsaparilla j root reside wholly in the bark, or cortical por- I tion ; it is therefore quite unnecessary to bruise ; it, as directed in the Ph. E. By those houses I which do largely in decoction of sarsaparilla, ; the root is seldom split or cut; the bundles in I which it is made up being simply untied and i' spread open, to allow of the free exposure of ; every part to the solvent action of the water. By this plan the whole of the soluble portion ! of the bark is extracted, whilst the feculent j matter that pervades the wood is only partially i dissolved out; According to Soubeiran, a mere i infusion is preferable. The Pose is a teacupful ** to half a pint, 3 or 4 times a day. 1 An extemporaneous decoction of sarsaparilla \ is made by dissolving | oz. of the simple extract I in 1 pint of hot water. See Saesapaeilla, and below. Decoction of Sarsaparilla (Concentrated). ! Syn. Decoctum saezjE concenteatum, L. ' Prep. 1. (Wholesale.) (SarsojwanV/a (J amaica), 10^ lb., is xilaced in a large and well-cleaned copper boiler, and enough boiling water added to cover it; it is then left to macerate, without boiling, for 3 or 4 hours, after which it is boiled for about an hour, and the clear liquor drawn off into another clean copper 2)an ; the root (after it has well drained) is then washed or ‘sparged’^ with boiling water, until the . latter runs off scarcely coloured; the washings I are added to the decoction, and the whole evaporated as quickly as possible to 6^ pints; it is then set to cool, and reclified spirit of wine, 1^ pint, further added; after agitation, the whole is set aside in a well-corked bottle, i in a cool place, for a week. In a few days it is ! usually found as clear and brilliant as brandy, ^ For au explanation of the operation of ‘ sparging’ see pciyc o63. with very little sediment, and will keep for any length of time uninjured. Some manu- facturers, instead of w^ashing the root, give it a second and third water, boiling it each time, and evaporating the mixed liquors. 2. (Extemporaneous.) Extract of sarsa- parilla, 6^ oz.; water, 12 fl. oz.; dissolve, add rectified spirit, 2\ fl. oz., and water, q. s. to make the whole exactly measure a pint. Obs. 1 drachm of this decoction, mixed with 7 drachms of water, forms a similar prepara- tion to the decoctum sarzee of the Ph. L., and is now very frequently substituted for it in dispensing. See Saesapaeilla, Exteacts, and below. Decoction of Sarsaparilla (Compound). Syn, Decoctum saez^ compositum (Ph. L. & E.), D. SAESAPAEILLJE c. (Ph. D.), L. Prep, 1. (Ph. L.) Decoction of sarsaparilla (boiling), 4 pints; sassafras chips, guaiacum wood (rasped), and fresh liquorice root (bruised), of each, 10 dr.; mezereon (root-bark), 3 dr.; boil for 15 minutes, and strain. 2. (Ph. E.) As the last, but using 4 dr. of mezereon. 3. (Ph. D.) Sarsaparilla (sliced), 2 oz.; sassafras, guaiacum turnings, and liquorice root (bruised), of each, 2 dr.; mezereon root-bark, 1 dr.; boiling water, 1^ pint; digest for an hour, then boil for 10 minutes, cool, and strain. 4. (Extemporaneous.) Compound extract of sarsaparilla, 7^ dr.; boiling water, 1 pint; dissolve. Obs. This decoction is an imitation of the once justly celebrated ‘ Lisbon Diet Drink* It is alterative and diaphoretic. Dose. A tea- cupful, or more, 3 or 4 times a day, either along with, or after, a mercurial course; and in syphilis, scurvy, scrofula, chronic rheuma- tism, lepra, psoriasis, and several other skin diseases, and especially in cachexia, or general bad habit of body. During its use the skin should be kept warm. See Saesapaeilla, and below. Decoction of Sarsaparilla (Concentrated Com- pound). Syn. Decoctum saez^ compositum CONCENTEATUM, D. SAESAPAEILL.E C. C., L. There is a very considerable trade done in this article, in consequence of compound decoction of sarsaparilla being taken in large doses, both alone and in combination with other remedies, and the pharmaeopoeial preparation spoiling if kept longer than about 12 hours, in warm weather. Like the concentrated simple decoc- tion, it is said to be of 8 times the usual strength, so that when mixed with 7 times its weight of water, it forms a similar preparation to the decoctum sarzee compositum,—Ph. L.; for which it is very generally substituted in dispensing. Prep. 1. (^^^lolesale.) Sarsaparilla (red Ja- maica), 96 lb.; mezereon root (not root-bark), 9 lb.; liquorice root (bruised), 16 lb. The me- zereon and liquorice are first laid (loosely) on the bottom of a clean copper pan, and the bun- dles of sarsaparilla (untied and loosened) packed