I VEGETABLES. 1305 ; The dose of the generality of vegetable j substances that exercise no very marked j action on the human frame is about | to 1 dr. I of the powder,'xi\^t and morning; or 1 02:., i or q. s. to impart a moderately strong colour or taste, may be infused, or boiled, in 1 pint of i water, and a wine-glassful dr thereabouts, taken i 2 or 3 times a day. Collection and *pres. The following general i directions are given in the London Pharma- I! copoeia for the collection and preservation of i VEGETABLE SUBSTANCES—(VEGETABILIA Ph. 1 L.):- ■ ' ; “ Vegetables are to be collected in dry . weather, and when neither wet with rain nor , dew; they are to be collected annually, and i are not to be kept beyond a year. ! Barks are to be coUected at that season I in which they can be most easily separated 1 from the wood.” Spring is the season here j alluded to;' as at this time, after the sap begins j to ascend; the bark is, in' general, very easily 1 separated. **Flowers are to be collected recently blown.” j The red rose, however, must be gathered before the buds are expanded. ! “ Fruits and seeds are tO be collected when j ripe. j “ Herbs and leaves are to be gathered after I the flowers have expanded^ and before the seeds j are mature. ' Roots 2iX\^ rhizomes (underground stems), I for the most part, are to be dug up aftur the 1 old leaves and stalks have fallen, and before j the new ones appear.” '(“ Roots, which are ! required to be preserved fresh, should be ! buried in dry sand.”—Ph. L. 1836.) “ Seeds are to be collected when they are ripe, ' and before they drop from the plant.” (f They I ought to be preserved in their seed-vessels”— i Ph. L. 1836.) f The different parts of vegetables are to be I kept dried for use, except where' w6 shall j otherwise direct. Expose those you wish to I dry, within a short time after they have been I gathered, in shallow wicker baskets, to a gentle heat, in a dark place, and where there is a I current of air. Then, the moisture being j driven off, gradually increase the heat to 150° I Fahr., in order that they may be dried. , Finally, preserve the more delicate parts, viz., [ floivers and leaves, in black glass vessels, I well closed, and keep the rest in proper vessels, 1 preventing the access of light and moisture.” Fruits, culinary vegetables, and vegetable I juices, of every class, may be preserved for any length of time by several of the methods I described under Putrefaction. On the 1 small scale, the following method is often ; adopted:—The substances to he preserved are ' put into strong glass or stoneware bottles, with i necks of a proper size, which are then corked with the greatest care, tied or wired, and luted with a mixture of lime and soft cheese, or with ! a paste formed of linseed meal and water, spread on rags; or, tin cases are employed. and are soldered up instead of being corked. The bottles are then placed in an oven, the temperature of which is cautiously raised to fuUy 212° Fahr.; or, they are enclosed, sepa- rately, in canvas bags, and put into a copper of water to which some salt has been added, which is then gradually heated un^il it boils, and thus kept for 15 or 20 minutes ; the \yhole is next left to cool, when the bottles are taken out and carefully examined before being laid by, lest they should have cracked, or the lute have, given way. Herbs and flowers are now generally pre- served for distillation by means of cornmon salt. The objection which is raised against the use of fresh aromatic plants is thus obviated, whilst the odours of the distilled products are rendered superior to those obtained from either the Vecen^ or dried plant, fruity ov flower, with- out the great loss, inconvenience, or trouble, attending the common methods. Besides, many aromatic and odorous substances almost entirely lose their properties by drying.; while most of them yield more- oil, and that of a flner quality, in the fresh than in the dried state. The odours of roses, elder flowers, and a variety of others, are .vastly improyed by this treatment, and these flowers may thus be preserved with ease and safety from season to season, or even longer, if required. The pro- cess simply consists in intimately mixing the flowers, or other vegetables, soon after being gathered, with about i their weight, or less, of good dry salt, and ramming down the mix- ture as tightly as possible in strong casks. The casks are then placed in a cold cellar, and covered with boards, on which heavy weights are put, to keep the mass tight and close. See Fruits, Putrefaction, &c. Juices of Vegetables. 1. (Expressed vege- table JUICES, Simple v. j.; Succi ex- press!, L.) These are obtained by bruising the fresh leaves, or other vegetable matter, in a marble mortar, or in a milli and expressing the liquid portion by means of a powerful screw press. After defecation for 12 or 14 hours in a cold situation, the juice is either decanted or Altered from the feculous sediment, and is next heated for some minutes to about 185° Fahr., to coagulate albuminous matter. The clear portion is subsequently separated as be- fore, and the product preserved for use in well- closed and well-filled bottles, in a cool situation. Some plants, as borage, cabbage, &c., require the addition of ^ of water before being pressed. The expression of the juice of lemons, oranges, quinces, kc., is facilitated by previously mixing the pulp with clean chopped straw. Buck- thorn berries, mulberries, &c., after being crushed between the hands, are commonly left for 3 or 4 days to undergo a slight fermenta- tion, before pressing them. The expression of the juices of the nar- cotic plants, and of some other vegetables, has lately assumed considerable interest, from these juices being now extensively used in pharmacy