171 ANILOTIC ACID—ANIMAL. j monla. These, on exposure to the air, acquired . a rose-colour, in many cases gradually passing ' into brown. Its boiling point is 359° to 360° Fahr.; 5jo. ffr., 1-028.^ ! Tesfs.—1. Chromic acid gives a deep ' greenish or bluish-black precipitate with ani- line and its salts :—2. Hypochlorite of lime, i strikes an extremely beautiful violet colour, which is soon destroyed :—3. The addition of j two or three drops of nitric acid to anhydrous j aniline produces a fine blue colour, which, on I the application of heat, passes into yellow, and a violent reaction ensues, sometimes followed by explosion:—4. With bichloride of platinum I it yields a double salt (plat'ino-chlo"eide of ! ANILINE, AN'iLO-BICHLO"IIIDE OF PLAT'INTJM) , analogous to the like salt of ammonia. These reactions distinguish it from all other sub- : stances. ! Uses, 8fc. Chiefly in dyeing, for the pro- : Auction of colouring matter of various rich shades of purple and violet, some approaching 1 pink, by the action of chromic acid; and of a i splendid crimson, by the action of various i oxidising agents. It forms the basis of the celebrated new dyes for silks lately patented by , Mr. W. H. Perkin, and others, and which are ; not only more delicate and gorgeous in tint, I but also more permanent, than any produced by other substances. Concluding Remarks. Aniline is an organic base formed on the ammonia-type, and may be regarded as ammonia in which one equiv. «of hydrogen is replaced by one equiv. of the organic radical ‘ phenyle.’ Having reference, therefore, to its chemical composition, it is a primary monamine,’ and would be correctly named phenyl'amine, in accordance with the prevailing nomenclature of the class of bodies to which it belongs. Besides numerous salts, various ‘substitution compounds’ of aniline have been formed, all of which possess vast ; scientific interest, and several are likely to prove of importance in the arts. See Amines, Dyeing, Indigo, Phenyle, &c. (also beloiv). Chro'mates of Aniline. Prep. 1. (neuteal 1 CREOMATE.) From sulphate or oxalate of aniline and chromate of potassa, by double i decomposition. 2. (bicheo'mate : — Mr. W. H. Perkin.) \ Sulphate of aniline and bichromate of potassa, in equiv. proportions, are separately dissolved ' in water, and the solutions, after being mixed, allowed to stand for several hours. The whole is then thrown upon a filter, and the black ‘ : precipitate which has formed is washed and [ dried. It is next digested in coal-tar naphtha j (—? benzole), to extract a brown resinous sub- i: stance; after which it is digested in alcohol, ij to dissolve out the colouring matter (biciieo- ij ^ 1020 at 60° I’alir. (Muspratt, ii. 129); probablj- a inis- I take, the description being mixed up with tliat of some ■; other substance: for here we are told, that “the boiling fj point is 182°,” and that it is '‘easily soluble in water, !■ alcohol, and ether-,” whereas at p. 599, vol. i, the author j states—“boiling point, 360°.” “Cold water dissolves it ;i to a certain extent.” Other like discrepancies c.xist. I MATE OF aniline), wliicli is left behind on distilling off the spirit, as a coppery friable mass. Patented. See Aniline (above). Cy'anide of Aniline. Benzonitrile. Ox'alate of Aniline. Obtained by saturating an alcoholic solution oxalic acid with aniline ; the salt separating as a crystalline mass. It is very soluble in hot water ; much less so in cold water j only slightly soluble in alcohol; and insoluble in ether. It may be crystallised from hot water or boiling alcohol. Used chiefly to form other salts. See Aniline (above). Sul'phate of Aniline. Prex^ared by satu- rating aniline with dilute sulphuric acid, and gently evaporating the liquid until the salt separates. By re-solution in boiling alcohol, it crystallises out, as the liquor cools, under the form of very beautiful colourless plates, of a silvery lustre. It is freely soluble in water, and in hot alcohol; scarcely soluble in cold alcohol; and insoluble in ether. It is chiefly employed in the preparation of the new aniline dyes. See Aniline (above). ANILOTTC ACID. A product obtained by M. Piria, along with helicin and helicoidin, by acting with dilute nitric acid on salicine. With stronger acid and a higher temperature ANiLic acid is formed. ANTMAL. [Eng., Fr., L.] Syn. Thiee, Ger. In physiology, an organised body en- dowed with life, sensation, and the power of voluntary motion. Animals are distinguished from vegetables by certain well-marked characteristics, which are superadded to the organic functions which animals possess in common with plants. The sensitive xfiant is susceptible of impressions which induce action and motion of its parts, and the embryos of the algcB and confervee are even endowed with the power of locomotion—the growing plant bends its leaves and petioles to the light, and extends its root to the most con- genial soil—the ivy entwines its graceful ten- drils around the oak, to be lifted by it into sunshine—the saxifrage perseveringly inclines, in regular succession, its amorous stamens towards its sister x>istils, whilst the tender pistils of the fragrant lily successively present themselves to receive the caresses of the less attentive stamens—the leaflets of the fly-trap apx)roach each other and inclose the irritating insect which has alighted on them—the leaves of one of the mimosce shrink from the offend- ing touch of the curious examiner—the lesser folioles of the desmodium, vibrate like the cilia of the mollusca—some plants even close their leaflets or flowers at sunset, and re-oxieii them only at certains hours of the day ; and others, like the nocturnal animals, sink into a state of repose, or sleep, at the approach of sunrise. Here are conditions which at first appear analogous to those occurring among animals ; but, on a closer examination, a wide difference may be perceived between them. The motions plants, and of their several parts, are distinguished from the voluntary movements