1293 TYROSINE—[JLTRAMARINE. ' vital powers by a proper regulation of the diet, and the judicious use of stimulants, when re- I quired.” (‘Med. Lex.’) I ‘ TY'ROSINE. A peculiar crystallizable sub- I stance, obtained by Warren de la Rue from ^ I the mother-liquor of caeminic acid. It may also be obtained from fibrin, by boiling this 4: substance for several hours with strong hydro- V chloric acid. J' TJL'CER. Syn. Ulcds, L. A sore arising i' from a solution of continuity in any of the t soft parts of the body, either open to the sur- ti face or to some natural cavity, and attended ■I by a secretion of matter or pus, or by some other kind of discharge. ‘' “ Ulcers may arise from a variety of causes, ' as all those which produce inflammation, from fj wounds, specific irritation of the absorbents, c from scurvy, cancer, the venereal or scrofulous 1* virus, &c. The proximate or immediate cause ■•.I is, however, an increased action of the ab- ij sorbents, and a specific action of the arteries, ' by which a fluid is separated from the blood •(! upon the ulcerated surface.” Cancerous, fis- i tulous, fungous, gangrenous, inveterate, scor- [ butic, scrofulous, sinuous, syphilitic, &c., are j terms which will explain themselves. Those : ( resulting from accidental injuries are termed -I local or simple ulcers, and those from specific ' poisons or particular habits of body constitu- I tional or specific sores or ulcers. i The treatment of ulcers varies with their I character. Simple or local ijlcees, unless ' the habit of body be bad, generally give way before extreme cleanliness, and some simple ' dressing, as noticed under abscess and boils. ‘ Constitutional or specipic ulcees usually ' require the use of some particular dressing, ' which varies with the exciting cause. Thus, ' ointments containing mercury are generally re- ! garded as appropriate to those of a syphilitic I character, and ointments containing iodine or the iodides to those of a sceofulous cha- !i racter. Indolent ulcees are commonly ! dressed with digestive or stimulating ointments, I as those of resin and elemi, and foul ulcees • with astringent or detergent ointments. Pain- ' FUL and lEEiTABLE SOEES are often treated j with the ointment of hemlock or henbane or 1 some other anodyne, whilst to those with a ! PUTEID TENDENCY antiseptic ointments and 1 charcoal poultices are applied. Open cancees I are often dressed with unguents containing I arsenic or arsenious acid, due caution being ' observed. Fungous geowths are suppressed j by escharotics. In all cases, a rigid attention : to the general health must be enforced, the diet must be carefully regulated, and fresh air at home, and gentle out-door exercise, secured as much as possible. In cases of a constitu- ' TIONAL or specific chaeactee, the primary ' disease must also receive the usual treatment. According to Mr. Skey, the eminent sur- geon of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, the ad- ministration of a pill of soap and opium (pilula saponis cum opio—Ph. L.) exerts a very marked action in promoting the healing of OBSTINATE SOEES, more especially those of the legs. See Ceeate, Lotion, Ointment, Poul- tice, &c. UL'MIN, ULMIC ACID. By boiling sugar in dilute sulphuric acid for a long time, a brownish-black substance is produced. Boul- lay and Malaguti state that this is a mixture of two distinct bodies—ulmin (‘ sacchulmin’— Liebig) and ulmic acid (‘sacchulmic acid’— Liebig). The first is insoluble in solutions of the alkalies; the latter dissolves in them freely. A number of black uncrystallizable substances, produced by the action of powerful chemical agents upon vegetable matter, have been confounded under these names. ULTRAMARINE'. Syn. Lapis-lazuli BLUE, UlTEAMAEINE B. ; CiEEULEUM ULTEA- montanum, L. This beautiful pigment is ob- tained from the blue mineral azure stone, lazu- lite, or lapis lazuli, the finest specimens of which are brought from China, Persia, and Great Bucharia. Prep. Pure lapis lazuli (reduced to frag- ments about the size of a pea, and the colour- less pieces rejected), 1 lb., is heated to red- ness, quenched in water, and ground to an im- palpable powder; to this is added, of yellow resin, 6 oz.; turpentine, bees’ wax, and linseed oil, of each, 2 oz.; previously melted together; the whole is next made into a mass, which is kneaded in successive portions of warm water, as long as it colours it blue; from these it is deposited on repose, and is then collected, well washed with clean water, dried, and sorted according to its qualities. The first water, which is usually dirty, is thrown away; the second gives a blue of the first quality; and the third, and following ones, yield sam- ples of less value. The process is founded on the property which the colouring matter of azure-stone has of adhering less firmly to the resinous cement than the foreign matter with which it is associated. When azure-stone has its colour altered by a moderate heat, it is reckoned bad or factitious. Obs. Ultramarine is the most costly, but at the same time the most splendid and permanent, of our blue pigments, and works well in oil. Ultramarine Ashes. Syn. Saundee’s blue. Obtained from the resinous mass from making ultramarine, by melting it with fresh oil, and kneading it in water containing a little potash or soda; or, by burning away the wax and oil of the mass and well grinding and washing the residue with water. Very permanent, but much less brilliant than ultramarine. Artificial Ultramarine. Syn. Azuee blue, MeISSNEE ULTEAMAEINE, PaEIS B., VIENNA B. ; C.EEULEUM ULTEAMONTANUM FACTITIUM, L. From the researches of Clement, Desormes, and Robiquet, it has been inferred that the colour of ultramarine depends on the presence of sulphuret of sodium in a peculiar state of