312 LILBERPvY—BINOCULAR. time by gentle pressure, gradually applied, as soon as they are soft enough to bear it; after which they are taken out, and as soon as cold put on clean dishes or glass plates. The sour or tart variety of apples is the best for baking. If the process be well managed, the appear- ance of the prepared fruit is very rich, and the flavour delicious. BIL'BERET. The whortleberry. Bear’s Bilberry. Uva ursi. BILE. Syn. Bi'lis,^ Cho'le,^ Fel,^ L. ; Bile, Fiel, Oalle, Fr.; Galle, &c., Ger. A bitter fluid secreted by the liver from venous blood; in part flowing into the intestines, and in part regurgitating into the gall-bladder. Its composition is of a very complex character; and its uses in the animal economy appear to be—to separate the ‘ chyle ’ from the ‘ chyme,’ to promote the digestion and assimilation of oleaginous substances, and to assist in exciting the peristaltic action of the intestines. The faeces appear to owe their colour chiefly to the presence of bile; as, without it, they possess a dirty pipe-clay colour. Several of the sub- stances w'hich enter into its composition, or which are formed from those which do so, are noticed elsewhere, under their respective names. Its mialysis, detection^ and uses in the arts, are given under Gall. Bile (of Animals). See Gall. BILE, Biriousness. Under these terms are popularly included all those slight afiections of the stomach, usually accompanied with derange- ment of the head and bowels, apparently aris- ing from ' excess ’ of bile. Persons subject to attacks of this description should be particu- larly careful to avoid excess in both eating and drinking, and should more especially shun those articles of food, and those liquors, which, from experience, they find are apt to disagree with them. A ‘ mutton chop,’ slightly under- dressed, is an excellent article for the breakfast, or the lunch, of bilious patients ; and good ‘beef’ or ‘mutton,’ either broiled or roasted, so that the gravy be retained, is better for dinner than many dishes apparently more delicate. These, with fresh ‘ game ’ and ‘ venison,’ form a good variety from which to choose a ‘bill of fare.’ New beer and porter should be particularly avoided, as well as boiled meat, stews, soups, greasy or rich paddings, much butter or fat, and most articles of pastry, as they are very indigestible, and, by over- tasking the powers of the stomach, very apt to derange it. Strong old cheese,'* salads (parti- cularly cucumbers), over-ripe or unripe fruit, new bread and rolls, cabbages and green vege- tables, and especially peas, beans, nuts, al- monds, and the like, are also objectionable for parties with delicate stomachs or a bilious tendency. The bread eaten by such persons should be perfectly free from alum, and pre- 1 Properly, the ‘gall’ after it leaves the ‘gall-hladder’— a sense retained in its English analogue. ^ XoArj, Gr. 3 Strictly, the gall-bladder with the gall. * Rotten cheese is absolute poison to the bilious. ferably prepared wdth meal retaining the whole of the ‘ bran ’ in it; and should be two days, \ or at the least, one day old. The quantity of i| animal food per day, except for the laborious, ) should be limited to from 6 or 8 to 12 oz.; . and ‘ warm slops ’ of all kinds, except mode- : rately strong tea and coffee, should be taken as seldom as possible, and, in general, avoided , altogether. Even cocoa and chocolate prove i injurious to the delicate and bilious. Out- door exercise, and plenty of fresh air, are i essential to the health of such persons. Those ' who indulge in them freely are never attacked with affections of this kind, unless it be after gluttonising or heavy drinking. Above all things heavy and late suppers should be aban- doned; indeed, the better plan is to take nothing more than a hard biscuit, or dry crust, after tea. In general, attacks of ‘ bile ’ may be pre- vented by the exercise of moderate judgment and temperance in living; and, in those hitherto subject to them, by the occasional use of an aloetic, mercurial, or saline aperient; and they may be generally rapidly removed by an emetic, followed by a dose of castor-oil, Epsom- \ salt, or Heidlitz-powder. A tumbler of pure i cold water taken on retiring to rest, and ano- i ther (or even two) on rising in the morning, will often remove both the ‘ tendency ’ and the i ‘ fit ’ when all the usual remedies have failed. | See Abernetht Medicines, Antibilious, j Dyspepsia, Stomach Affections, &c. j BILTARY AFFECTIONS (-yar-e). See Bile ( {ante). Calculi, Jaundice, Liver, &c. i BI'LINE (-lin). Syn. Bili'na, L. This j name has been loosely applied to two sub- \ stances:—1. Bile, or pure bile, freed from the mucus of the gall-bladder, and gently evapo- rated to dryness. A gummy pale yellow mass, white when powdered:—2. Tauro-cholalic or choleic acid. See Gall, &c. BIL'IOUS (-yiis). Syn. Bilio'sus, L. ; i Bilieux, Fr.; Gallig, Gallicht, &c., Ger. Pertaining to, caused by, full of, or having excess of bile. See Bile, Biliousness. BILIPH'EINE (-e-m). Cholepyrrhine. BILIV'ERDINE (-dm). A green colouring matter, identical with chlorophyll, found in bile, and in the green dejections of children. BILL OF FARE. In cookery, domestic eco- nomy, (Sfc., a list of things ready dressed or prepared for the table (carte, c. d’un restau- rant, MENU, &c., Fr.); also a list of articles of food in season. For Tables of the latter, see Food. BIN-. See Bi-. BI'NARY. Syn. Bina"rius, L. ; Binaire, Fr. Consisting of two parts. In chemistry, compounded of two elements, or of two bodies performing the function of elements. j BINOC ULAR (-U-). Having two eyes. In , optics, of or with ‘two eyes,’ as binoc'ular j vV'sion; or formed with two eye-pieces or | tubes, so as to be used with ‘two eyes,’ as a | b. mi'croscope, b. telescope, &c.