1123 POTASSIUM. \'oduct. 1 ton of dried blood or ivoollen refuse, I til 3 cwt. of pear lash, yields from 2 to 2^ i t. of commercial ferrocyanide. The mother- j uor contains sulphate of potash. Prop. It forms large and very beautiful How crystals, which are permanent in the .,and very tough and difficult to powder; is soluble in 4 parts of cold and 2 parts of ling water; has a mild saline taste; at a itle heat loses water; at a higher tem- •ature, in closed vessels, it is, for the most •t, converted into cyanide of potassium, and, en exposed to the air, into cyanate of po- I'sa. It precipitates solutions of antimony, !\>nutli, protoxide of mercury, and zinc, of a ' ite colour;—cadmium, pale yellowish-white ; ■motoxide of cerium, white, soluble in acids; ■wotoxide of copper, white, changing to red protoxide of iron, white, rapidly i ning blue;—lead, white, with a pale yel- 1 ish cast;—protoxide of manganese, white, I'idly passing into a peach or blood-red I Dur ',~peroxide of mercury, white, turning 1 e;—oocide of nickel, white, turning green; - ilver, white, turning brown or blackish- 1 wn in the light;—protoxide of tin, white (latinous);—cobalt, green, turning reddish 1 y ’—peroxide of copper, brown-red; ^per- I de or sesquioxide of iron, dark blue;—deut- ide or sesquioxide of manganese, greenish- i- y >—molybdenum, dark brown;—protoxide f palladium, green (gelatinous) ;—tantalum, Vnt yellow colour;—peroxide of tin, yellow (latinous);—uranium, reddish-brown; and - inc, white. ~*nr. It is ‘^totally dissolved by water; ll'js 12-62 of its weight by a gentle heat; ^[coely, if at all, alters the colour of turmeric; I )recipitated deep blue by the sesquisalts of i 1, and white by zinc; its ashes, dissolved by 1 Irochloric acid, are again thrown down by utnonia; it yields 18-7R of sesquioxide of i 1. (Ph. L.) hes, ^c. Ferrocyanide of potassium is t ffiy used in dyeing and calico-printing, in t manufacture of Prussian blue, in electro- ] ting, and, in chemistry, as a test, and a ^ rce of hydrocyanic acid. As a medicine, it 1 said to be sedative and astringent, and in 1 doses purgative, but appears to possess 1 le action. Dose. 10 gr. to | dr., dissolved 1 vater; in hooping-cough, chronic bronchitis, 1 ht-sweats, leucorrhoea, &c. D’Arcet swal- 1 ed a solution containing | oz. of this salt ' hoTit experiencing any injurious effects. 'odide of Potassium. Syn. Potassii iodi- 1 'I (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prep. There are serai methods of preparing this important 1 licinal compound, of which the following a the most valuable :— • (Ph. L. 1836.) Take of iron filings, 2 oz.; e'illed water, 2 quarts; iodine, 6 oz.; mix tm, and heat the solution until it turns en, then add of carbonate of potassa, 4 oz., solved in water, 1 quart; filter, wash the 1 iduum on the filter with water, evaporate the filtered mixed liquors, and crystallize. Product. 1 oz. of iodine yields 1 oz. 45 gr. of iodide. This compound is placed in the Ma- teria Medica of the Ph. L. 1851. The formula of the last Ph. D. resembles the above. 2. (Ph. E.) As the last, nearly; but the solution is ordered to be “ concentrated at a temperature, short of ebullition, until a dry salt be obtained, which is to be purified by dissolving it in less than its own weight of boiling distilled water, or, still better, boiling it in twice its weight of rectified spirit, filter- ing the solution, and setting it aside to crys- tallize.’^ 3. (Duflos.) Iodine and pure granulated zinc, of each, 4 oz.; water, 8 oz.; after the action has ceased, neutralize the liquid with a solution of pure carbonate of potassa, in very slight excess, filter, neutralize, if necessary, with a little hydriodic acid, treat the liquid with sulphuretted hydrogen, for the sake of security, filter, evaporate, and crystallize. Prod. 1 oz. of iodine yields 1 oz. 2 dr. 4. (Gregory.) Add iodine to a hot solution of pure potassa until the alkali is perfectly neutralized, carefully avoiding excess, eva- porate the liquid to dryness, and expose the dry mass to a gentle red heat in a platinum or iron crucible ; afterwards, dissolve out the salt, gently evaporate, and crystallize. An excel- lent process, yielding a large product, but, if the ignition be not carefully managed, it is apt to contain a little undecomposed iodate. To obviate this, Mr. Scanlan proposes the addition of a little powdered charcoal to the mass before ignition, a plan adopted in the Ph. U. S. 5. (Mayer.) From iodine, 400 parts; bi- carbonate of potassa, 508 parts; water, q. s.; mix, and then add iron filings, 112 parts, in divided portions; boil, filter, evaporate, and granulate the iodide. 6. (W. S. Squire.) Iodine is treated with a small proportion of phosphorus in water, and is thus converted into ‘ hydriodic acid ’; lime is then added, and the ‘iodide of calcium’ formed is first fused, and then decomposed by sulphate of potassa into ‘sulphate of lime,’ which is precipitated, and ‘iodide of potassium,’ which remains in solution, and may be crys- tallized, as in the other processes. This is a modification of a method devised by Liebig. 7. (Turner.) To a hot solution of caustic ' potassa (sp. gr. 1-19) add as much iodine as it will dissolve, and pass sulphuretted hydrogen through the liquid until it becomes colourless; next apply a gentle heat to expel excess of acid, filter the liquid, exactly neutralize it with potassa, evaporate, and crystallize. Prod. 1 oz. of iodine yields 1 oz. li dr. Prop. It crystallizes in cubes, which in the pure salt are extremely white, though fre- quently opaque; these are anhydrous; fuse when heated, without decomposition; dissolve in less than an equal weight of water, at 60° Fall!’., and very freely in alcohol; and do not