1046 PAULLINIA—PEARLASH. water bottle containing cold water, 8 fl. oz., and immediately cork it down securely, and keep it inverted, in a cool place, until required for use. Zanetti’s Bohemian Restorative Tincture. Prom crushed raisins, f lb.; hay saffron, 2 oz.; aqueous extract of opium, 3 dr.; pow- dered cochineal, 2 dr.; capillaire and orange- flower water, of each, ^ pint; proof spirit, 3 pints; digested together for a week, and then strained, with expression. PAULLIN'IA. See Gfaeana. PAYN'IZING. The name given to Mr. Payne’s process for preserving and mineralizing wood. See Dey-eot {page 534). PEACH. Syn. Peesicttm, L. T\\q fruit of Amygdalus Persica. Two varieties are known in our gardens—clingstone peach and FEEESTONE PEACH, terms which explain them- selves. The fruit is wholesome; hut the flowers and kernels contain prussic acid, and are poisonous. PEACH'WOOD. The produce of a species of Ccesalpinia, now extensively used in calico- printing. PEAR. Syn. Pyehs, L. The fruit of Pyrus communis (Linn.), one of the rosacese. Its general qualities resemble those of the apple. PEAR FLAVOUR. See Essence. PEARL. Syn. Maegaeita, Maegaeittjm, Peela, Unio, L. The most beautiful and costly pearls are obtained exclusively from the pearl oyster {Meleagrina margariiifera) of the Indian Seas. The principal fisheries are on the coast of Ceylon, and at Olmutz, in the Persian Gulf. An inferior description of pearl is procured from a fresh-water shell-fish {Unio margariiiferd) in the neighbourhood of Omagh, county of Tyrone. A similar quality is also procured from the river Ythan, Aberdeenshire. It is probable that pearls from this source, collected by the ancient Britons, may have given rise to the statement by Tacitus, in his ‘ Life of Agricola,’ of pearls “ not very orient, but pale and wan,” being among the indi- genous products of Great Britain. Pearls are composed of membrane and car- bonate of lime; or, in other words, of sub- stances similar to bladder and chalk, in alter- nate layers. The cause of the production of pearls is highly curious and interesting. When any foreign body gains a permanent lodgment within the shells of any of the mollusca which are lined with pearly matter, or nacre, the pearly secretion of the animal, instead of being spread in layers on the inside of its habita- tion, is accumulated around the offending particles in concentric films of extreme tenuity, and more or less spherical, forming a pearl. Pearls were formerly used in medicine as absorbents or antacids; and among the an- cients they were occasionally taken, dissolved in acid, both as a remedy and for the purpose of displaying the careless opulence and luxury' of their possessors. A perfect pearl, large, truly spherical, highly iridescent, and reflecting and decomposing the rays of light with vivacity, claims to rank with the most costly of the gems, and in some parts of the East is, witli justice, more highly prized than even the diamond. In Europe, however, the present estimation of their value is somewhat different. “A handsome necklace of Ceylon pearls, smaller than a large pea, costs from J£l70 to £300; but one of pearls about the size of peppercorns may be had for £15. The pearls in the former sell at a guinea each, and those in the latter at about Is. Qd.” (Milburn.) Seed pearls are of little value, however beautiful. Artificial Pearl. These are hollow spheres or beads of glass, perforated with two holes at opposite sides to permit of their being strung into necklaces. A small portion of essence d*orient (see page 584) is introduced into each, by suction, and is then spread over the inner surface of the glass. When this has become dry and hard, the globe is fiUed up with white wax, spermaceti, or gum arable. The glass of which the beads are formed is slightly bluish and opalescent, and very thin. The latest improvement consists in removing the glassy appearance of the surface of the prepared bead, by exposure to the fumes oj hydrofluoric acid, highly diluted. Mother of Pearl. Syn. Unionijm concha:, L.; Nacee de peele, Er. This is the in- ternal or nacreous layer of those shells which produce the pearls for ornamenting the per- son ; hence the term ‘ mother of pearl ’ is by no means inappropriate. It is also derived from several other species, known in trade as; ear-shells, green snail-shells, Bombay-shells, &c., The brilliant hues of mother of pearl do not depend so much upon the nature of the substance as on its structure. Its surface is covered by minute corrugations or furrows, which give a chromatic appearance to the reflected light. Sir David Brewster was the first to show that this substance is capable of imparting its iridescent appearance to fusible metal or fine black wax. Mother of pearl is cut and wrought with nearly similar tools to those used for ivory, but its treatment, owing to its more fragile nature and delicate structure, requires con- siderably greater care. It is polished with colcothar or putty powder. The numerous applications of mother of pearl, for buttons, knife-handles, boxes, in- laying work, &c., are well known. PEARL’ASH. This is prepared by calcining the crude potashes on a reverberatory hearth, dissolving the calcined mass in water, and, after repose, decanting the clear solution, and evaporating it to dryness in flat iron pans, the product being constantly stirred towards the end to reduce it to a semi-granular state. Although purer, its richness in absolute alkali is less than that of the potashes from which it