MERCURY. 907 PHATE OF THE FEOTOXIEE OF MEECUET, PeE- SULPHATE OF M.f, BlPEESULPHATE OF M.f; Hydeaegyei sulphas, H. PEESULPHAS, H. Bii'EEsuLPHAS, L. Prey. 1. (Neuteal.)— a. By boiling together oil of vitriol and metallic mercury until the latter is wholly converted into a heavy, white, crystalline powder; the excess of acid is removed by evaporation. Equal weights of acid and metal may con- veniently be employed. h. (Ph. D. 1826.) Dissolve mercury, 6 parts, in a mixture of sulphuric acid, G parts, and nitric acid, 1 part, by boiling them in a glass vessel, and continue the heat until the mass becomes perfectly dry and white. Used to make calomel. Obs. When 2 parts of mercury are gently heated in 3 parts of sulphuric acid, subsul- phate of mercury is formed; but if the solu- tion be effected by a strong heat, and the liquid be evaporated to dryness, the neuteal PEOTOSULPHATE (‘bipei’sulphate^ of many writers) results. When this sulphate is thrown into hot water decomposition ensues, the yel- low BASIC SULPHATE OF MEECUEY is precipi- tated, and a portion of the neutral sulphate, together with some free sulphuric acid, remains in solution. (Liebig.) 2. (TeIBASIC sulphate of MEECUEY, TUE- PETII MINEEAL, TUEBITH M., QuEEN’S YEL- LOW, Subsulphate of MEECUEYf, Teibasic PEESULPHATE OF M. ; HyDEAEGYEI SUBSUL- PHAS, H. S. FLAYUS, TeEPETHUM MINEEALE, L.)—a. Dissolve mercury in an equal weight of oil of vitriol by boiling them to dryness, fling the mass into hot water, and wash and dry the resulting yellow powder. h. (Ph. D. 1826.) Neutral sulphate of mer- cury, 1 part; ivarm water, 20 parts; triturate together in an earthen mortar, wash well with distilled water, drain, and dry it. Prop., ^'c. A heavy, lemon-yellow powder, soluble in 2000 parts of cold, and about 600 parts of boiling water. By long-continued washing with vei’y hot water, it loses all its remaining acid, and is at length converted into red oxide of mercury. Dose. As an altera- tive, g to ^ gr.; as an emetic, 3 to 5 gr.; as an errhine, 1 gr., mixed up with a pinch of liquorice powder or mild snuff. It is a powerful poison, and one of the least useful of the mer- curial preparations. Obs. The temperature of the water em- ployed to decompose the neutral sulphate salt, in a similar manner to that pointed out under the niteate. It is now superseded as a pigment by chrome yellow and orpiment, which are not only more beautiful, but cheaper preparations. Sttl'phiu-ets of Mercury. Syn. Sulphides OF MEECUEY. Two sulphurets of mercury are used in pliarmacy and the arts: 1. Subsul'phuret of Mercury. Byn. Sub- sulphide OF M., Black bulphueet of m.. Amorphous sulphuret of m., Peotosul- phueet of M.f; Hydeaeotei SUBSULPHUEE- TUM, H. SULPHUEETUM, H. S. NIGEUM, L. Prep. 1. (Pure.) This falls as a black pre- cipitate when a solution of nitrate of mercury is treated with sulphuretted hydrogen or hy- drosulphuret of ammonia. 2. (Impure; Ethiop’s mineeal; Hydeae- GYEI SULPHUEETUM CUM SULPHUEE, H. S. NIGEUM—Ph. L. 1824 & Ph. D. 1826); iETHIOPS MINEEALIS—Ph. L. 1836—& Ph. D. 1826.) Quicksilver and sulphur, equal parts, triturated together (in a stoneware mortar—Ph. D.) until globules are no longer visible. Prop., The last preparation is alone employed medicinally. It is a heavy, inso- luble, black powder. It is frequently met with imperfectly prepared, and sometimes adulterated. It is said to be a mixture of sul- phuret of mercury and sulphur, in variable proportions, depending on the length of the trituration. On the large scale, it is generally made by melting flie ingredients together, and afterwards reducing the mass to fine pow- der in a mill or mortar. It is said to be ver- mifuge and alterative, and has been used in some cutaneous and glandular diseases, but appears to be nearly inert. Dose. 5 to 30 gr. Pur. If it contains free mercury, it will stain a piece of bright copper or gold white when rubbed on it; if it contains charcoal, blacklead, or bone black, these will remain behind when it is heated; the presence of black sulphuret of antimony may be detected by boiling it in hydrochloric acid, and testing the filtered liquid. The sp. gr. indicates whether it contains the proper quantity of mercury. When pure, “ it is totally dissipated by heat (without incandescence), no charcoal or phosphate of lime being left."’ (Ph. L. 1836.) Protosul'phuret of Mercury. Byn. Red sul- PHUEET OF MEECUEY, FACTITIOUS CINNABAR, Vermilion, Sulphuret of meecuey, Sul- phide OF M., BiSULPHURET of M.f; HY- DEAEGYEI bisulphuretum (Ph. L.), Cinna- BAEIS (Ph. E.), H. SULPHUEETUM EUBEUM, L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Quicksilver, 24 oz.; sul- phur, 5 oz.; melt together, and continue the heat till the mixture swells up, then cover the vessel, remove it from the heat, and when cold, powder, and sublime it. The formulae of the other colleges are similar. Prop., ^'c. Sulphuret of mercury has a dark-red semi-crystalline appearance in the mass, but acquires a brilliant scarlet colour by powdering. It is tasteless, odourless, and in- soluble. It is chiefly used as a pigment; but it is occasionally employed in medicine as a dia])horctic and vermifuge, and in some cuta- neons diseases, and gout. Dose. 10 to 30 gr.; as 0. fumigation, about ^ dr. is thrown on a plate of iron heated to dull redness. For the last purpose it is inferior to the gray oxide of mer- cury, owing to the more irritating nature of its vapour. When pure, “it is totally dissipated by