143 AMMONIA. i I stopped during the process with a plug or .;ock of lead, to allow of the liquid product of the distillation, &c., to he drawn oft‘, or ‘run into’ another receiver or cistern, at will. Both chambers are placed on strong wooden supports, or scalfolding, to bring them on a level with the retorts. When the impure sulphate or other ammonia-salt is used in the manufacture of the sesquicarbo- nale, (which is generally the case,) the result- ing salt being impure and discoloured, is resublimed in iron-pots (/, f, f), furnished with movable leaden heads, which are kept cool by a current of air passing over them ; a little water being introduced into the sub- liming pots to render the product translucent. I The heat is applied either by means of a ‘ tlue’ I passing from the retort-furnace {A, b), or by a 1 water-bath heated in the same manner; the latter being the preferable method, as the tern perature should not be greater than about 200^ Fahr.; and need not exceed 150° to 155°. These pots are arranged in ‘ sets,’ as shewn at (Z)) in the engraving. The charge of a retort usually consists of about 70 to 72 lb. of sulphate of ammonia, or 57 to 58 lb. of the hydrochlorate or chloride, to 1 cwt. of chalk; or in these proportions. The product is about ,40 lb. of the crude salt, which, by careful resublimation, yields about 39 lb, of marketable ‘ sesquicarbonate of am- monia.’ Mr. Laming recommends, for the preparation of this salt, to bring gaseous ammonia into contact with an excess of carbonic acid gas, j in a series of leaden chambers, kept as cool as | })ossible, and containing a stratum of water; \ the resulting solution being subseciuently crystallised by evaporation at a low tempera-1 ture, and the crystals purified by sublimation.! He also proposes to prepare the ^ sesquicar- bonate’ from the hydrosulphuret of ammonia found in gas-liquor, by passing into it carbonic acid gas obtained from a mixture of 12 parts of oxide of copper, and 1 part of charcoal, heated to redness in an iron-retort. The sul- phuretted hydrogen disengaged by the action of the gas, is dissipated in the process of. crystallising the liquid. The residuum in tlie retort is ‘ metallic copper’ in"a minutely- divided state, containing little, if any, char- coal. This, by exposure to the air during its cooling, is reconverted into ‘ protoxide of cop- per’, which may be again used with a fresh por- tion of charcoal; and thus by the use of two retorts, a continuous stream of carbonic acid gas may be obtained. In Mr. Hill’s process, the ‘ sesquicarbonate ’ is obtained, by sublimation, from guano inti- mately blended with qjowdered-charcoal or coak. Among the numerous other processes which have been jyroposed for the preparation of this salt—the majority of which have been qja- tented—are tlie following : — 1. From BITUMINOUS schist. (Count de Hempesch. dated 1841.) The schist is submitted to destructive distillation, in iron- retorts, and the resulting ammoniacal liquor converted into the ‘ sesquicarbonate,’ or other salt of ammonia, in the usual manner. 2. From guano. (Turner. Patent dated 1844.) The guano is submitted to destructive distilla- tion in close iron-cylinders, at a low red-heat, the temperature being only raised towards the end of the process. The eliminated gases are caused to pass through a series of vessels (at least three) arranged on the principle of Woulfe’s apparatus, in order that the whole of the condensable products may be retained. The liquor found in the condensers, after the sublimation, is a strong solution of carbonate of ammonia and cyanide of ammonium. The whole of the hydrocyanic acid of the latter is converted into Pbussian blue, by the ad- dition of protochloride of iron, and falls as a rich blue precipitate on the neutralisation of the liquid with hydrochloric acid. The filtered or decanted liquor is next freed from any traces of iron by the careful addition of a fresh quantity of the ‘ ammoniacal solution;’ and after filtration, or decantation, is evaporated. The product is sal ammoniac, which may be either purified as such, by sublimation; or may be converted into sesquicaebonate of ammonia, in the usual manner. If sulphuric acid and sulphate of iron be used instead of the ‘ hydro-