3 “ Plutnn. Centr.-Blatt.;’ 1837. | 1 A “ cerebro-spinal poison”—Taylor. f 216 ATUOPIC ACID—ATTENUANT. allowed to evaporate spontaneously. The crystals may be purified by repeated re-solu- tions in alcohol. Prop., tests, ^c. The crystals obtained from hot concentrated solutions, colourless, trans- parent, silky prisms; from solutions in dilute spirit, silky needles, like those of disulphate of quinine. It is odourless; has a bitter, acrid, and somewhat metallic taste; dissolves in 200 parts (300 parts—Thomson) of cold and 50 to 54 parts of boiling water, in parts of cold alcohol, and in 25 parts of cold, and 6 parts of boiling ether; it has an alkaline reaction, fuses at about 194° Fahr., is slightly volatile at common temperatures, and freely rises in vapour at 212° Fahr.; at higher temperatures it volatilises with partial decomposition ; with the acids it forms salts, of which several are crystallisable. Tests. —1. Nitric acid forms with it a yellow solution :—2. With cold sulphuric acid it gives a colourless solution, which becomes red only when heated :—3. Aqueous solutions of atropia and its salts are—a., turned red by tincture of iodine—h., give a citron-yellow precipitate with terchloride of gold—c., a fiocculent whitish precipitate with tincture of galls, and —d., a yellowish-white one with bichloride of platinum 4. Heated with caustic potassa or soda, it suffers decomposition, and ammonia is evolved.—5. A weak solution cautiously ap- plied to the eyelid or conjunctiva produces dilation of the pupil lasting for several hours. Pur., cfc. “ Alkali prepared from the root of atropa belladonna. Crystals; white, in the form of prisms; soluble in water and rectified spirit. There are no certain tests to show the purity of this substance.” (Pb. L.) Phys. eff. It is a very powerful narcotico- acrid poison.^ Its effects are similar to those of belladonna but considerably more powerful. “ A very minute [imponderable) quantity ap- plied to the eye is sufficient to dilate the pupil.” (Pereira.) The to gr. often causes very serious effects in the human subject. The |th of a grain accelerates the pulse, affects the brain, causes dryness of tbe throat, difficulty of deglutition, dilation of the pupil, dimness of sight, giddiness, strangury, numbness of limbs, sense of formication in the arms, rigidity of thighs, depression of pulse, and sometimes feebleness or loss of voice. These symptoms continue for from 12 to 24 hours. In larger doses death ensues.—Lesions. These are generally not so marked as with some of the other alkaloids. In a case of suicide re- ported by Dr. A. S. Taylor, where 2 gr. were taken, the patient—a young man—was heard to snore heavily during the night, and was found dead at 7 o’clock the next morning, lying on his right side, the surface livid, the limbs rigid and contracted, and with a little brown matter issuing from the mouth. The pupils were much dilated j and the mucous membrane of tbe stomach presented a diffused redness, which, however, might have arisen from some brandy which he had taken. No trace of the poison could be detected in the stomach or its con- tents.2 Ant., (Sfc. These may be similar to those described under Belladonna and Alkaloid. Uses. Chiefly as an external agent, as a sub- stitute for belladonna, to cause dilation of the pupil; and as a local ancesthetic or anodyne, especially in facial neuralgia. Internally, it has been occasionally given in hooping-cough, chorea, and a few other nervous diseases.— Dose, g'g gr., gradually increased to jg, or occa- sionally, even -j’g gr., in solution, or made into a pill with liquorice powder and honey, or syrup, or used endermically ; for a collyrium, 1 gr. to water 1 oz., a few drops only being applied to the eye at a time; the greatest caution in each case being observed. It is also employed to make the sulphate. In dispensing it, a single drop of acetic acid, or dilute sulphuric acid, will be found to facilitate and ensure its per- fect solution. See Belladonna and Bella- DONINE. Sul'pliate of Atropia. Syn. Atro'pijg Sul'- PHAS, L. Prep. (Ph. L. 1851.) To dilute sulphuric acid, 2 fl. dr.; diluted with distilled water, f fl. oz.; add, gradually, of atropia, 150 gr., or q. s.; filter, gently evaporate, and crystallise. Uses, The same as those of the pure alkaloid.—Dose, to gr., either in solution or pills; 1 to 3 gr., to water, 1 fl. oz., as a ‘ collyrium,’ of which a few drops seldom fail to produce full dilation of the pupil in about a quarter of an hour; 1 to 2 gr., to lard, 1 dr., forms an excellent ointment in neuralgic affections. Obs. Sulphate of atropia is rather difficult to crystallise, as it has a tendency to assume an amorphous or gum-like condition. It is / more soluble than the pure alkaloid; and like . it, is a terrific poison—“ We intend this salt only for external use.” (Ph. L.) ATEOP'IC acid. Syn. Acidtjm Ateop'i- CUM, L. The name given by Richter to a vola- tile crystallisable substance, possessing acid pro- perties, found in atropa belladonna or deadly nightshade. In many respects it resembles benzoic acid, from which, however, it is dis- tinguished by not precipitating the salts of iron.3 ATROPI'NA, At'ropine. See Ateopia. AT'TAR. See Otto and Volatile Oils. ATTELETTES (-lets'). [Fr.] In cookery, small skewers, generally of silver, with orna- mental heads. The term is also applied to small dishes (enteees, &c.) in which the ar- ticles are mounted on ‘ attelettes.’ Small fish, as smelts, are often served in this way. See Aiguillette. ATTEN'UANT (-ii-ant). Syn. Atten'uans, L.; Attendant, Fr.; Veedunnend, Ger. I 2 Taylor “ On Poisons,” 2ml ccL, p. 830-1.