EERYLLA—BEZOAE. 310 often ‘ worked up ’ by the lapidaries and passed off as BEETLS, or EALSE BEETLS, emeralds, topazes, &c. See Gesis, Pastes, &c. BERYL'LA*. Glucina. BERYL'LIUM*. Glucinium. BE'TEL (be'tl), [Eng., Ger.] Sr/n. Be'tle, Be'tel-teee, B. peppee-teee ; Betel, Fr.; Wasseepeeffee, &c., Ger.; Pi'pee be'tel (Linn.), Chayica betle (Miquel), L. A climbing plant of the nat. ord. Piperacese, com- mon in India and the East. Its leaves, which somewhat resemble those of the citron, are bitter, stomachic, tonic, stimulant, sialogogue, and aphrodisiac.^ (See below.) Betel. A common masticatory in the East, where it is chewed in the same way as tobacco is by Europeans and Americans, but much more generally, being regarded by the Malays, Sumatrans, &c., as an absolute necessary of life. It is commonly formed by dividing areca-nuts^ into four or six equal parts or slices, one of which is rolled up, with a little chunam'^ in a sirih or leaf of the piper-betel,'^ and then constitutes a ‘ quid ’ ready for use. Prop., Sfc. Betel, in those accustomed to its use, produces a species of pleasing excitement or intoxication, stimulates the action of the salivary glands, stomach, and kidneys, corrects acidity, diminishes cutaneous perspiration, restrains excessive discharges, increases the power of physical exertion and endurance, moderates the effects of climate, and appears to act as a general tonic on the system. It darkens the teeth, and tinges the saliva, as well as the mouth and lips, of a bright-red colour. In those unhabituated to its use, it causes giddiness, astringes and excoriates the mouth and fauces, and temporarily deadens the sense of taste. The Indians conceive that it preserves and fastens the teeth, cleanses and strengthens the gums, sweetens the breath, cools the mouth, assists respiration, and acts as a general aphrodisiac on both sexes. Peron states that he preserved his health during a long and very trying voyage by the habitual use of ' betel,’ whilst his companions, who did not use it, died mostly of dysentery.^ BE'TEL-NUT. Syn. Aee'ca-ntjt; Nrx aee'c.e cat'echtj, N.-be'tel, &c., L. Thesccrf of the catechu-palm {are'ca cafechu, Linn.), divested of the husk or fibrous pericarp. The yiho\e fruit (aeeca-ntjt of commerce) is about the size of a small egg; the husked nut is of the size of a large nutmeg. The whole fruit ‘‘ is remarkable for its narcotic or intoxicating pow'er.” “It has, how^ever, been thought doubtful whether” its “ intoxicating effect is not owing to the piper-leaf in wdiich it is wrapped when eaten (chewed), rather than to 1 “TTiglily aphrodisiac.” (Gray.) 2 In many cases suitable pieces of tlie whole fruit, in- cluding the husk, are used; and in others, only the husk (pinang) ; there being ditferent strengths and qualities of ‘ betel ’ employed. 3 Lime made l)y burning ‘ shells.’ * In some cases, the leaf of chavica sirihoa (Miq.), which possesses similar properties, is em])loyed. 5 “ Voyage anz Terres Anstrales.” any special property of its own.” ® See Aeeca Catechtj, Betel (ante), &c. BET'ULINE (-u-lm; bS'-tii-).^ [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Beteli'na, L. A substance obtained from the bark of the white birch ihe'tula'^ al'ba, Linn.), by a nearly similar method to that adopted for ‘berberine’ and other like alkaloids. It forms colourless, light needle-like crystals, which are fusible, volatile, and infiammable j nearly insoluble in water and alkaline solu- tions j freely soluble in alcohol, ether, and the mineral acids, and to some extent in the fixed and essential oils. It is said to be freely basic and febrifuge; but possesses no practical in- terest. BE'ZOAE (-zore). [Eng., L. indecl.; prim. Pers.®] Syn. Be'zoae-stoke ; Bezoae'dtjs, La'pis bezoae'dictjs, &c., L. ; Bezoae, Be- ZOAED, Fr.; Bezoaestein, Ger. The name of preternatural concretions found in the stomach, \ intestines, &c., of certain animals, and formerly \ supposed to possess the most extraordinary \ antidotal power and medicinal virtues. Bp far, indeed, did this belief extend, that other sub- i stances regarded as ‘ antidotes ’ were called i BEzOAE'Dicsf, or otherwise named after them ; j whilst the adj. bezoae'Dicf (bez-) and be- c zOAE'TlCALf {bezoardique, Fr. \ bezoar'dicus, j L.), came to be synonymous with ‘antidotal.’ | Certain bezoars were once valued at even ‘ ten I! times their weight in gold.’ They were not ; i only taken internally, but also worn as amulets, i; They have, however, long since fallen into dis- 'i use in this country. Among the leading bezoars of old medicine \ \ are— i Ger'man Bezoar. Syn. Be'zoae GeemanT- i ' CTJM, B. capei'nlm, L. From the Alpine s! goat. Hu'man Bezoar. Syn. B. homTnis, L. Falsely stated to be found occasionally in man. Microcos'mic Bezoar. Syn. B. miceocos'- i MICUM, L. Human urinary calculi. Mon "key Bezoar (mung'-) Syn. B. simTje, La'pis s., L. From certain species of ope or i ^ monkey, obtained by giving an emetic. Occident'al Bezoar. Syn. West'eenb.; B. i? occidenta'le, L. Found in the fourth sto- •! mach of the chamois or wild goat of Peru, &c.; i or, according to others, of a species of ante- lope. Orient'al Bezoar. Syn. East'een b .; B. oeienta'le, La'pis b. oeienta'lis, L. From the fourth stomach of ca'pra rega'grus, a species i of goat inhabiting the mountains of Persia, ; &c. ‘ Ox Bezoar. Syn. B. bovi'nijm, L. From the ox, and other bovine animals. ® Lindley’s “ Veg. Kingdom f 3rd cd., p. 137. 7 Mayne spells and marks these words belulin' and het'ula. Smart’s notation is be'-tii-ia. 8 Some authorities derive this word from ladzahr ' or pazahar, Persian compounds implying ‘antidote to ! poison’; others, from paseng, or pasahr, the name of the ' goat in Persia. Mayne’s notation—hez'oar, is unusual; and several of his analogues, synonymes, &c., are incor- rectly given (? misprinted).