729 HERBS—HOLLANDS. name of the genus and species, and the lo- cality where found, &c., are then marked ! beside each. Camphor or a little corrosive \ sublimate may be used to preserve herbaria from the ravages of insects. The preparation of an herbarium offers an almost endless source i of amusement to the ingenious, whilst the specimens so collected, if well preserved, are almost as useful to the botanist as the living I plants. HERBS. Syn. Heebje, L. The collection and drying of herbs for medicinal purposes and perfumery are noticed under Vegetable Stjb- I STANCES. Amongst cooks, several aromatic herbs, i either fresh or dried, are used for seasoning. “ In many receipts is mentioned a bunch of i sweet herbs, which consists, for some stews and soups, of a small bunch of parsley, two sprigs of thyme, and one bay leaf ; if no parsley, , then of four sprigs of winter savory, six of thyme, and one bayleafJ’ (Soyer.) HER'HIA. See Rtjptuee. HERP'ES. See Eeuptions, Tettees, &c. HER RING. A well-known small sea-fish, belonging to the family of Chipeidce, a branch of the order Malacopterygii. As an article of fcod, herrings are of a vast importance to a large proportion of the population of Europe. \t'hen recently caught and dressed by broiling or boiling, they are wholesome and agreeable; but if fried, or long kept, they become strong and oily, and are then apt to offend the sto- mach. 'Jhe preparation of salted and dried or smoked herrings (bloatees, eed heeeings) furnishes employment for thousands, both in these countries and Holland. Real Yarmouth bloaters and Dutch herrings are highly esteemed by many as a relish. Salted herrings are said to be diuretic. The pickle was formerly used in clysters, dropsies, &c. M. Soyer calls this fish “ the poor man’s friend,” and tells us that, after being “ cleaned and scaled, and the head removed,” it should be “ opened in the back, and the gut taken out.” Also that “ the way to ascertain if a herring is too salt, is to take the fish in the left hand, and pull out a few of the fins from the back, and to taste them. You may thus find out the quality and flavour. This plan is adopted by the large dealers.” HESPERTDIN. A peculiar substance ob- tained from the white portion of the rind of oranges, lemons, &c. It forms crystalline silky needles, is odourless, tasteless, lusible, soluble in alcohol and ether, less soluble in water. HIC'COUGH (hik'-up). Syn. Hiccup; Sin- gultus, L. A convulsive motion of the diaphragm and parts adjacent. The common causes are flatulency, indigestion, acidity, and worms. It may generally be removed by the exhibition of warm carminatives, cordials, cold water, tceak spirits, campthor julep, or spirits of sal volatile. A sudden fright or surprise will often produce the like effect. An instance is recorded of a delicate young lady that was troubled with hiccough for some months, and who was reduced to a state of extreme de- bility from the loss of sleep occasioned by it, that was cured by a fright, after medicines and topical applications had failed. A pinch of snuff, a glass of iced soda water, or an ice^ cream, will also frequently remove this affection. HI'ERA-PTCRA. See Powdee op Aloes AND Canella. HIP'POCRAS. An aromatic medicated wine, formerly much used in England, and still employed on the Continent. Frep. Lisbon and Canary wine, of each, 12 pints; cinnamon, 2 oz.; white canella, \ oz.; cloves, mace, nutmeg, ginger, and galangal, or cardamoms, of each, 1 dr.; bruise the spices, and digest them in the wine for three or four days; strain, and add lump sugar, 2^ lb. HIPPU'RIC ACID. Syn. Acidum hippu- EicuM, L. A compound discovered by Liebig in the urine of the horse, cow, and other ^ graminivora,’ in which it exists in combi- nation with potassa or soda. Prep. Concentrate fresh cow’s urine by a gentle heat to about -/gth its bulk, filter from deposit, mix the liquid with excess of hydro- chloric acid, and set it aside to crystallize. It may be decoloured by redissolving it in boiling water, and treating it with animal char- coal, or with a little chloride of lime along with some hydrochloric acid, and re-crystal- lizing it. Obs. Hippuric acid, when pure, forms long, slender, milk-white, square prisms; it is soluble in 400 parts of cold water; it also dissolves in hot alcohol. When strongly heated, it yields benzoic acid, benzoate of am- monia, and benzonitrile, with a coaly residue. “ The urine of horses or cows, left to itself for some time, or evaporated at a boiling temperature, yields not a trace of hippuric acid, but only benzoic acid.” Nitric acid and hot oil of vitriol convert it into benzoic acid. Boiling hydrochloric acid converts it into benzoic acid and glycocoll. With the bases it forms salts, which are called hippueates. See Benzoic Acid. HIPS. Syn. Heps ; Rosa canina (Ph. L.). The fresh fruit of the dog rose {Rosa canina), or wild briar. Used to make a conserve. HOL'LANDS. Syn. Geneva, Schiedam, Hollands gin, Dutch g. Prep. I. The materials employed in the distilleries of Schei- dam, in the preparation of this excellent spirit, are two parts of the best unmalted rye and 1 part of malted bigg, reduced to the state of coarse meal by grinding. About a barrel (36 gall.) of water, at a temperature of from 162° to 168° Pahr., is put into the mash-tun for every 1-^ (;wt. of meal, after which the malt is introduced and stirred, and, lastly, the rye is added. Powerful agitation is next given to the magma till it becomes quite uniform, when the mash-tun is covered over with canvas, and left in Lids state for two hours. Agitation is then again had recourse to, and the transparent * spent wash’ of a pre-