722 GYPSUM—HAIR, different purposes. Its perfect plasticity when Avarin, and its capability of receiving the most delicate impressions, render it invaln- ahle in many cases where India rubber would be useless. Beautiful mouldings, picture- frames, and a number of ornamental articles, are made from it. To the chemist and photo- grapher it is of great use as a material for making bottles, carboys, photographic baths, and voltaic battery cells. One of the most important uses to which it has been applied is for enclosing the metallic wires used for telearaphic purposes. Its indestructibility by water, its plasticity, and high insulating power, have rendered it particularly valuable for this purpose. At the International Exhibition of 1862 the Gutta Percha Company exhibited one mile of covered wire perfectly insulated, which was hardly thicker than common sewing cotton. Gutta percha may he rolled into thin transparent sheets, which, being perfectly impervious to moisture, are well adapted for surgical purposes. Again, a solution of gutta percha in chloroform forms an excellent dress- ing for incised wounds, and a protection for abraded surfaces, burns, &c. It is used in the same way as collodion. Purified Gutta Percha. Dr. Cattell, of Lon- don, has succeeded in purifying gutta percha so perfectly from all extraneous matter, that it presents the appearance of ivory. The raw material is dissolved in a certain solvent, and the solution most carefully filtered until it leaves on evaporation the gutta percha in a pure milk-white condition. GYP'SUM. This is native sulphate of lime. When baked, to deprive it of water, and ground, it forms plaster op Paris. Gypsum is an excellent manure for certain soils. HAD'DOCK. A small sea-fish, allied to the cod, and esteemed an excellent article of food. It is the Gadus ceglefinus of Linnseus. Split, smoked, and dried, it is common in the smaller shops of London. H.ffiMATEM'ESIS. In pathology, vomiting of blood. See Stomach Diseases. H.fflM'ATITE. Syn. Hematite. 1x\ miner- alogy, one of the most important iron ores. Two kinds are distinguished, the red, which is an anhydrous peroxide of iron, and the brown, which is the hydrated peroxide. H.ffiMATOCRYS'TALLm. A crystalline substance obtained by the action of oxygen and afterwards carbonic acid on the ‘ clot ’ of blood. H.S!MATOS'IN. Syn. H^matin, Red pig- ment OP BLOOD. The red colouring principle of the blood. It is not known in a state of purity. It differs from the other animal prin- ciples in containing, as an essential ingredient, the sesquioxide of iron. H.$MATOX'YLIF. A principle obtained by Chevreul from common logwood {HaemaloxyIon campechianum), and on which its colour appears to depend. Prep. 1. Infuse logwood chips in water, at a temperature of about 130° Pahr., for 12 hours, filter, and evaporate to dryness in a water hath; digest the residuum in rectified spirit for 24 hours, again filter and evaporate; then add a little water; again gently evaporate i and set aside the solution in a cold place that crystals may form; these must he washed in rectified spirit and dried. 2. Digest powdered hard extract of logwood \ in rectified spirit, and proceed as last. ! 3. Powdered logwood is mixed with sand \ and digested for several days in pure ether ; j the resulting liquid is filtered, evaporated to I a syrup, and set aside to crystallize. Prop., 8fc. Brilliant reddish-white or straw- yellow crystals, soluble in boiling water, form- ing an orange-red solution which turns yellow as it cools, but resumes its former colour on being heated. Alkalies in excess change its colour successively into purple, violet, and brown; acids brighten it; with the metallic oxides it forms compounds having a blue, purple, or violet colour. H.ffiMOP'TYSIS. In pathology, spitting of blood. It generally arises from extreme ful- ness of the blood-vessels of the lungs, or the rupture of blood-vessels, as a consequence of ulceration; but sometimes it is induced by excessive exertion or external violence. De- pletion, aperients, acidulous and astringent drinks, and nauseants, are the usual remedies. Acetate of lead, in small doses, has been re- | commended for this affection. When this sub- stance is given, it should be accompanied i with a sufficient quantity of free acetic acid, | to prevent its being converted into the poison- ous carbonate of lead in the system. | H.ffiM'ORRHAGE. Stjn. Hemorrhage ; i H.EMORRIIAGIA, L. A bleeding or flow of blood. Bleeding may be divided into active, ' passive, and accidental.—Active hemorrhage is that arising from a full state of the vessels, or plethora,—PASSIVE hemorrhage, from general debility of the system, and of the blood-vessels in particular,—accidental he- ' morrhage, from external violence, as blows, wounds, &c. The first generally requires de- pletion, and the second the usual treatment to establish the general health and vigour of the body. The bleeding from wounds, if extensive, should be arrested by tying the ruptured t blood-vessels; or where this cannot be done, and in less important cases, by the application of styptics, as creasote, sulphate of iron, in- fusion of galls, compound tincture of benzoin, &c. HAIR. Syn. Capillijs, Pilus, L. Tlie i , hair of the human head has continually formed a subject for the chisel of the sculptor, the I pencil of the artist, and the lay of the poet. Nor is this surprising, since all the features of the face, as well as the head it covers, derive from it additional finish and unequalled grace. ^ The hair is, indeed, one of the greatest aux- iliaries of personal beauty, and imparts to it