PA1NTS--PALLADIUM. jto employ one or other of the remedies just mentioned. The most appropriate and only safe situation I in which to keep paintings, is where there is a oure, and moderately dry atmosphere. Impure I air abounds in carbonic acid and sulphuretted Hydrogen. It is the presence of the last in |:he air that blackens the ‘lights/ and causes Inost of the ‘middle tints' and ‘shades’ to ade; and it is exposure to damp that pro- luces mouldiness and decay of the canvas. For ;his reason valuable paintings should not be Kept in churches, nor suspended against heavy \valls of masonry, especially in badly ventilated Duildings. Excess of light, particularly the ilirect rays of the sun, also acts injuriously j>n paintings, since it bleaches some colours md darkens others. ' The blackened lights of old pictures may be nstantly restored to their original hue by ouching them with peroxide of hydrogen, di- nted with 6 or 8 times its weight of pure cater. The part must be afterwards washed vith a clean sponge and water. The most stonishing results have been produced in this v^ay See Peeoxide op Hydrogen {page ■44). PAINTS. In trade, this term is commonly pplied to pigments ground with oil to a thick )aste, ready to be ‘thinned down’ with oil or urpentine to a consistence adapted for appli- ation with a brush. Paints are prepared on the small scale by ;rinding the dry pigments with the oil by neans of a stone-and-muller ; on the large scale hey are ground in a colour mill. There are [ everal pigments, as King’s yellow, Scheele’s i>REEN, VERDIGRIS, WHITE LEAD, &C., which Jrom their poisonous character cannot be safely !;round by hand, except in very small quanti- fies at a time, and then only by the exercise of ixtreme caution. In mixing or thinning down paints for use, b may be useful to mention that—for ‘ out- -oor work/ boiled oil is principally or wholly mployed, unless it be for the decorative parts f houses, when a portion of turpentine and ale linseed oil is often added.—For ‘ in-door .ork,’ linseed oil, turpentine, and a little driers,^ are generally used in the same way. 'he smaller the proportion of oil employed for he purpose, the less will be the gloss, and the •reater the ultimate hardness of the coating, ’or 'flatted white,’ &c., the colour being round in oil, requires scarcely any further ddition of that article, as the object is to lave it ‘ dead’ or dull. The best ‘ driers’ are, Tound litharge, and ground sugar of lead; he first for dark and middle tints, and the ist for light ones. To preserve mixed paints in pots from ‘ skin- ning over’ or drying up, they should bo kept onstantly covered with water; or, what is •etter, with a thin film of linseed oil. Brushes, when out of use, may be preserved n a similar manner to mixed paints. When 1027 dirty, or required for a paint of another colour, they may be cleaned with a little oil of tur- pentine, which may be either preserved for the same purpose another time, or may be allowed to deposit its colour, and then used to thin down paints as usual. In no case, however, should it be thrown back into the cistern or pan with the pure ‘ turps.’ Flexible Paints. Prep. Take of good yellow soap (cut into slices), 2| lb.; boiling water, 1|- gall.; dissolve, and grind the solution whilst hot with good oil paint, I5 cwt. Used to paint canvas. Vitrifi'able Paints. See Enamel, Glaze, Stained Glass, &c. PALLA'DIUM. A rare metal discovered by Dr. Wollaston in the ore of platinum, in 1803. Prep. 1. A solution of the ore of platinum in aqua regia, from which most of the metal has been precipitated by sal ammoniac, is neu- tralized by carbonate of soda, and then treated with a solution of cyanide of mercury ; the white insoluble precipitate (cyanide oe pal- ladidm) is next washed, dried, and heated to redness; the residuum of the ignition (spongy palladihm) is then submitted to a gradually increased pressure, and welding at a white heat, so as to form a button, in a similar manner to that adopted with platinum. Prod. Columbian ore of platinum, 1|; Uralian do., *25 to *752. 2. The native alloy of gold and palladium (from the Brazils) is submitted to the opera- tions of quartation and parting (see page 705), the nitric acid employed being of the density of 1*3; the silver is next precipitated from the solution by means of a solution of common salt or dilute hydrochloric acid, and the decanted supernatant liquid, after evaporation to one half, is neutralized with ammonia, and concen- trated so that crystals may form; these (ammonio-chloride oe palladium) are cau- tiously washed in a little very cold water, dried, mixed with borax, and exposed in a crucible to the strongest heat of a powerful blast furnace, when a solid button of pure pal- ladium is formed. Prop., 6)0. Palladium closely resembles pla- tinum in appearance, fusibility, malleability, and ductility; but it is less dense, and has a rather more silvery colour than that metal; it is freely soluble in aqua regia, and is slowly attacked by nitric acid, but the other acids exert little or no action on it; heated to red- ness in]the air, a very superficial blue or purple film of oxide forms on the surface, which is again reduced at a white heat. It melts at 156° Wedgwood. Sp. gr. 11*3 to 12*1 (11*8 —Wollaston; 12*14—Vauquelin). It readily unites with copper, silver, and some other metals, by fusion. Tests. 1. The neutral solutions of palla- dium are precipitated in the metallic state by sulphate of iron, dark brown by sulphuretted hydrogen, olive by ferrocyanide of potassium, and yellowish-ivhite by cyanide of mercury.— 2. A drop of tincture of iodine placed on the