1309 VERATRUM—VERDITER. animal charcoaly and reprecipitation with am- monia/^ 2. (Ph. L. 1836.) This is the same in prin- ciple as the last; a tincture is formed by- boiling the seeds in rectified spirit, which is then evaporated to a syrup, dissolved in tery dilute sulphuric acid, the veratrine precipitated with magnesia, redissolved in very dilute acid, treated with animal charcoal, the filtrate again evaporated to a syrup, and precipitated with ammonia ; it is, lastly, washed and dried. 3. By means of ether, as noticed under Al- kaloid and Aconitine. This is by far the best method. Prop. Pure veratrine is perfectly white; hut as usually met with, it is a yellowish or greenish-white powder; it is highly acrid; uncrystallizable; scarcely soluble in water, soluble in ether, and freely soluble in hot al- cohol ; heated to about 125° Eahr., it fuses like wax, and solidifies, upon cooling, to a transparent yellow mass. With the dilute acids it forms salts, which are either amorphous or difficultly crystallizable. The smallest pos- sible portion of its powder causes violent sneezing. Tests. 1. Potassa, ammonia, and their car- bonates, giveflocculent white precipitates, which. at first are not crystalline under the micro- scope, but which, after some minutes, assume the appearance of small scattered* clusters of short prismatic crystals; they are insoluble in excess of potassa and its carbonate, and only very Slightly so in excess of ammonia.— 2. With sulphuric acid it strikes an intense red colour, changing afterwards to crimson, and finally to violet.—3. A dilute acetic solution of veratrine is turned t6 a superb red by strong sulphuric acid. Veratrine is distinguished from BEtrciNE and the other alkaloids by its fusibility—by the crystalline form of its precipitate with po- tassa, and—by its reaction with oil of vitriol. Uses, ^c. “As an external application, it has been efficaciously employed by Magendie in France, and by Dr. Turnbull in this country; but the extravagant eulogies of the latter have not tended to confirm the reputation of the remedy(Dr. A. T. Thomson.) From 6 to 12 gr., dissolved in 1 fl. oz. of rectified spirit, as a liniment; or 30 gr., mixed with 1 dr. of olive oil and 1 oz. of lard, as an oint- ment, have been occasionally found very ser- viceable in neuralgia, and other like painful affections, and in gouty and rheumatic para- lysis. As an internal remedy, it possesses no advantage, as it merely acts as a violent and depressing cathartic. Dose. to -j'g gr. In larger doses, it acts as a powerful irritant poison. For antidotes, &c., see Alkaloid. VERA'TRUM. See White Helleboee. VER'DIGRIS. Syn. iEEtiGO, L.; Veet-de- GEIS, Fr. This is a mixture of several basic acetates of copper which have a green or blue colour (see page 481). It is obtained in the wine districts of the south of Europe, by the action of refuse grapes, from which the juice has been expressed, on thin sheets of copper. When pure, it should dissolve, almost entirely, and without effervescence, in dilute sulphuric acid. It is very poisonous / for antidotes, see COPPEE. An inferior quality of verdigris is now pre- pared from pommage, or apple marc, ifi the cider districts of England. Distilled Verdigris* S'yn. Ceystallized TEEDiGEis. This name is> applied to the normal acetate of copper, which is prepared in the wine districts by dissolving ordinary verdi- gris, 1 part, in good distilled vinegar, 2 parts; xhe operation being performed in a copper vessel, by the aid of a gentle heat and agitation; the solktioU is afterwards slowly evaporated until a pellicle begins to form- on the surface, when it is transferred into glazed earthen pans (‘ oulds*), in each of which is placed 2 or 3 cleft sticks, and it is then left in a warm apart- ment for 14 or 15 daysi td crystallize. (See page 481.) ■ • ' A spurious article is often prepared by add- ing a solution of sulphate of copper, 12| lb., to a solution of sugar of lead, 19 lb., or q. s., and filtering, evaporating, and crystallizirig the mixture. There is an dcetate of copper and lime which resembles distilled verdigris in colour. It was manufactured pretty extensively in Scotland some years ago, and fetched a high price, till Dr. Ure published an analysis of it in the * Edin. Phil* Trans.’ It is much inferior for all uses in the arts, > , Pure distilled verdigris is, entirely soluble in water, and is not precipitated on the addition of sulphuric acid or of ammonia in excess. English Verdigris. Prep. Blue vitriol, 24 lb.; white vitriol, 16 lb. / sugar of lead, 12 lb.} alum, 2 lb.; (all coarsely powdered;) mix, and heat them in a pot over the fire until they unite into a mass. Sold by fraudulent dealers for foreign verdigris. VER'DITER. Syn. Blue veeditee, Re- einee’s VEEDiTEE; Cendees bleues, Fr. A blue pigment, obtained by adding chalk, whit- ing, nr milk of lime, to a solution of copper in nitric acid; or, by triturating recently preci- pitated and still moist carbonate or oxide of copper with hydrate of lime. PVep. A quantity of whiting or milk of lime is put into a tub, and upon this the solu- tion of copper is poured; the mixture is'stirred every day for some hours together, until the liquor loses its colour; it is then poured off*, and more solution of copper added; this is repeated until the whiting or lime has acquired the proper colour; the whole is then washed with water, drained, spread on chalk stones, and dried in the sun. Obs. The cupreous solution employed in the above process is made by neutralizing the nitric solution obtained from the refiners of gold and silver, by heating it along with me- tallic copper. For the finer qualities of ver-