803 IVORY BLACK—JALAP. I lastly, take them out and dry them in a warm place, when they will turn yellow. Ivory is etched or engraved hy covering it with an etching ground or wax, and employing I oil of vitriol as the etching fluid. I Ivory is rendered flexible hy immersion in a i solution of pure phosphoric acid (sp. gr. 1'13) I until it loses, or partially loses, its opacity, 1 when it is washed in clean cold soft water, and j dried. In this state it is as flexible as leather, ! but gradually hardens by exposure to dry air. 1 Immersion in hot water, however, restores its I softness and pliancy. According to Dr. Ure, the necks of some descriptions of infants’ FEEDING BOTTLES are tlius made, j Ivory is whitened or bleached by rubbing it 1 with finely powdered pumice-stone and water, and exposing it to the sun, whilst still moist, under a glass shade, to prevent desiccation and ) the occurrence of fissures; observing to repeat : the process until a proper effect is produced. Ivory may also be bleached by immersion for a short time in water holding a little sulphurous acid, chloride of lime, or chlorine, in solution; or by exposure in the moist state to the fumes of burning sulphur, largely diluted with air. Ivory is wrought, turned, and fashioned, in a similar manner and with similar tools to those used for bone and soft brass. Obs. Bone for ornamental purposes is treated in a similar way to ivory, but less carefully, owing to its inferior value. The bones of liv- ing animals may be dyed by mixing madder with their food. The bones of young pigeons may thus be tinged of a rose colour in 24 hours, and of a deep scarlet in 3 or 4 days; but the bones of adult animals take fully a fortnight to acquire a rose colour. The bones nearest the heart become tinged the soonest. 1 In the same way logwood and extract of log- wood will tinge the bones of young pigeons purple. (Gibson.) IVORY BLACK. See Black Pigments. I i j JAG'GERY. Syn. Palm sugae. A coarse I brown sugar made in India, by the evaporation I of the juice of several species of palms. The j following are the pi’incipal varieties of this product : — 1. Cocoa jaggery. From the juice of the Cocoa-nut palm {Cocos nwifera). j 2. Malabar jaggery. From the juice of i the Guinmut palm {Saguerus sacchei fer). j 3. Mysore jaggery. From the juice of the wild date-palm {Phxnix sylvestris); 17 j gall, yield 46 lb. , 4. Palmyra jaggery. From the juice of i the Palmyra palm {Borassus flabelliformis); ! 6 pints yield 1 lb. I JA’LAP. Syn. Jalap.® radix, Jalapa I (Ph. L. & D.), Convolvuli jalap^e radix : (Ph. E.). L. The tubercular roots of the j Exogonium pnrya, Ipomea purga—Wender; I I. Jalapa—(Royle.) Jalap is a powerful sti- I mulant and drastic purgative, producing copious 1 liquid stools; but when judiciously adminis- tered, both safe and efficacious. It appears to be intermediate in its action between aloes and scammony. Dose. 10 to 25 gr., in powder j in constipation, cerebral affections, dropsies, obstructed menstruation, worms, &c. Owing to its irritant properties, its use is contra-in- dicated in inflammatory affections of the ali- mentary canal, and after surgical operations connected with the abdomen and pelvis. It is usually administered in combination with sulphate of potassa or bitartrate of potassa and ginger ; with mercurials, as the case may indicate. The powder is very generally adul- terated. Res'in of Jalap. Syn. Resina jALAPiE, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. E.) See Extract of Jalap. 2. (Nativelle.) Jalav root is digested in boiling water for 24 hours, and after being re- duced to thin slices, more water is added, and the whole boiled for 10 minutes, with occa- sional agitation ; the liquid is then expressed in a tincture press, and the boiling and press- ing repeated a second and third time (these decoctions by evaporation yield aqueous ex- tract OF jalap) ; the pressed root is next treated with rectified spirit, q. s., and boiled for 10 minutes, and then allowed to cool; the tincture is then pressed out, and the boiling with alcohol and expression is repeated twice; a little animal charcoal is added to the mixed tinctures, and, after thorough agitation, the latter are filtered; the liquid is now dis- tilled until nothing passes over, the superna- tant fluid is poured off the fluid resin, and the latter dried by spreading it over the surface of the capsule, and continuing the heat. The product is a friable and nearly colourless resin, which forms a white powder resembling starch. Prod. Fully log of pure resin. 3. (Planche.) Resinous extract of jalap is dissolved in rectified spirit, the tincture agi- tated with animal charcoal, and after filtration gently evaporated to dryness. Pur. The jalap resin of commerce is gene- rally adulterated with scammony, gum guaia- cum, or resin. When in a state of purity, it does not form an emulsion with milk, like scam- mony resin, but runs into a solid mass. It is insoluble in fixed (nils and turpentine, whil-t the common re>ins are freely soluble in those menstrua. Its alcoholic solution, dropped on a piece of absorbent white paper, and exposed to the action of nitrous gas. does not acquire a green or blue colour; if it does, guaiacum resin is present. 2g of this adulteration may be thus detected. (Gobley.) It is insoluble in ether ; but guaiacum resin, common resin, and some others, are so; the decanted ether should not become opalescent when mixed with water, and should evaporate without leaving any re- siduum. Powdered jalap resin placed in cold water does not dissolve, but forms a semi-fluid, transparent mass, as if it had been melted. Dissolved in a watch-glass with a little oil of vitriol, a rich crimson-coloured solution is ob-