GOOSE—GOUT. 709 GONIOMETER invented by Dr. Wollaston. Facility in using this instrument is readily acquired by a few trials. ■: GOOSE. This bird, the Anser domexticus, is a favourite article of food almost every- where, and may fairly claim a similar position amongst poultry to that occupied by “ good Sir Loin^^ among joints of meat. The vulgar inuendos occasionally heard, to its prejudice should be directed against the cook rather than the bird, as it is only when it is unskil- fully dressed and too highly seasoned that it is apt to disagree with that “ irascible mem- ber of the interior,^' a delicate or overloaded stomach. Undue susceptibility in that quarter may, however, be generally allayed by an oblation, in the shape of a little ‘ eau de me,’ used as sauce or gravy. Formerly, almost miraculous virtues were attributed to this bird. Its flesh was said to promote longevity, to cure hydrophobia, and to he aphrodisiac. The fat (goose grease ; ADEPS ANSERis), mixed with honey, was supposed to he “ good against the hitings of a mad dog.” At the present day it is occasionally used in clysters, and, when scented, as a pommade to make the hair grow, for which purpose it is said to be superior to bear's grease. In quantity, it is an emetic of very easy action. The large feathers of the wings (quills) are used for writing. The small feathers form the common stuffing of our beds. GOOSE'BERRY. The fruit or berry of Ribes grossularis. Unripe fruit, cold and acidulous; ripe fruit, whole,some and slightly laxative; hut the seeds and skins should not he eaten, as they are very indigestible; t\ve juice of the green fruit is made into wine (English cham- pagne) ; the seeds, washed and roasted, were formerly used as a substitute for coffee (goose- berry coffee). ' Gooseberries are preserved by simply ‘bottling’ them, and keeping them in a very cold place. See Cheese, Fool, Fruit, &c. GOULARD. Syn. Goulard’s extract. See Solution of Diacetate of Lead. GOUT. Syn. Arthritis, L. A painful disease that chiefly attacks the male sex, par- ticularly those of a corpulent habit and robust frame. Persons who live temperately and take much exercise are seldom troubled with gout. Indolence, inactivity, luxurious habits of life, and free living, are the chief exciting causes of this disease; hut excessive study, grief, watchfulness, exposure to cold, and the too free use of acidulous liquors, also occa- sionally bring it on. In some persons it is an hereditary disease. Gout, like rheumatism, has been called by different names according to the part attacked: —CHIRAGRA, gout in the hand; gonagra, in the knee; ischias, in the hip; podagra, in the feet; &c. Symp. Gout is generally preceded by un- usual chilliness of the feet and legs, and a numbness or-a sensation of prickling along the lower extremities; the appetite fails, fla- tulency, indigestion, torpor, and languor ensue, and extreme lassitude and fatigue follow the least bodily exercise ; the bowels become cos- tive, and the urine pallid. The fits usually come on in the night; the patient is awakened by the severity of the pain, generally in the first joint of the great toe, or occasionally in the heel, whole foot, or calf of the leg. The pain resembles that of a dislocated joint, accompanied by a sensation resembling the effusion of cold water; the pain increases, rigors and febrile symptoms ensue, accompanied with local throbbing and inflammation. Some- times both feet or legs are attacked; at others, only one. Towards morning the patient ge- nerally falls asleep, and sinks into a state of copious perspiration, from which he awakes comparatively recovered. This constitutes what is called a ‘fit of gout.’ These fits or parox- ysms are apt to return at intervals, commonly every evening, with more or less violence; and when frequent, the disease usually extends its action, the joints become affected, and con- cretions of a chalky nature (chalk stones, GOUT s.) are formed upon them, and they be- come stiff and nearly immovable. Treat, A plain or Vegetable diet, moderate exercise, and the nse of warm laxatives, gentle tonics, diaphoretics, and diuretics, are among the best preventives. The moderate use of alkaline remedies, as potassa and magnesia, has also been recommended. To relieve the fit of gout, or to check it at its commence- ment, the effusion of cold water will be often found effective. The use of the ‘ eau medici- nale,’ ov the ‘ vinum colchici’ of the Pharma- copoeia, may also be had recourse to; a due dose of which taken at bedtime will frequently carry off the paroxysm, and nearly always mitigate the symptoms. The effect of the above remedies do not greatly differ from each other; for “ after taking about 60 drops of either, the pulse becomes slower, and at length sinks in about 12 hours from 10 to 20 strokes per minute below its natural number, at which time the inflammation subsides. Tbe action of both medicines is accompanied with great languor, and a deadly nausea or sickness, which terminates in vomiting or a discharge from the bowels, or both.” These symptoms have often reached an alarming extent, and in some constitutions follow even a moderate dose. This method of cure should not, there- fore, be unadvisedly and incautiously adopted. It is, however, generally admitted that col- chicum, properly administered, will almost al- ways alleviate the symptoms and lessen the frequency of the attacks; and numerous in- stances are on record where the inroads on the constitution were increasing to an alarming extent, and that at an advanced period of life, in which colchicum seems at least to have les- sened the severity of the disease, if not to 1 have been the active agent in its removal. Another remedy for gout brought before