214 ARSENIC—AESENIOUS ACID. Red Arsenic. Bisulphuret of arsenic. White Arsenic^. Arsenious acid. Yell'ow Arsenic. Tersulphuret of arsenic. ARSENIC. Syn. Aesen'icus, L. j Aese- NiQUE, Fr.; Aesenikisch, Ger. Of or from arsenic; appr., noting a certain acid. (See below.) ARSEN'IC ACID. Syn. Acidum aesen'i- CTJM, L.; Acide aeseniqtje, Fr.; Aeseniz- SATJEE, Ger. Arsenic in its highest state of oxygenation. Hist. Its salts were noticed by Macqueer; but Scheele first obtained the acid in a sepa- rate form. Prep. 1. Arsenious acid, in fine powder, 2 parts; concentrated nitric acid, 6 parts; hydro- chloric acid, 1 part; mix in a flask or tubu- lated retort, and digest, with heat, until solu- tion is complete; after repose, decant the clear portion, and evaporate to perfect dryness ; or, preferably, evaporate to the consistence of a thick syrup, then transfer it to a platinum- crucible, and cautiously expose it for some time to a degree of heat, not exceeding dull redness, to expel the. whole of the water and nitric acid. The product is anhydrous. 2. Dissolve arsenious acid in hot hydrochloric acid, and when the solution is cold, add concen- trated nitric acid, in small quantities at a time, until red vapours cease to be evolved, then proceed as before. 3. Submit arsenious acid to the action of aqueous chlorine. Prop., Sfc. As prepared above, arsenic acid is white, granular, and anhydrous; soluble in 6 parts of cold water, and in 2 parts of boiling water; solution, sour and powerfully acid; when evaporated to the consistence of a thick syrup, crystals of the htdeated acid are deposited after a time. At a dull red-heat it fuses into a vitreous mass. Sp. gr. of the fused or anhydrous acid, 3’7 (Muspratt). It is tribasic. With the bases it forms salts (aese"niates) which are isomorphous with the corresponding phosphates (one of those with soda being indistinguishable in appear- ance from the common phosphate of that base). The arsenic acid of the shops is usually, though improperly, of a sj'rupy consistence. In all its conditions it absorbs moisture from the atmosphere ; and at a high temperature is resolved into oxygen, and arsenious acid which volatilises. It contains 65^ ^ of arsenic. Tests.—1. Nitrate of silver added to the solu- tion of an arseniate gives a highly character- istic reddish-brown precipitate, which distin- guishes it from arsenious acid :—2. Nitrate of lead gives a white precipitate, and the salts of copper greenish-blue ones:—3. Pure lump- sugar dissolved in an aqueous solution of this acid becomes, in a few hours, of a reddish colour, and afterwards of a magnificent purple. (tire) :—4. Heated with charcoal it evolves a garlic-li.\e odour, and is reduced to the metallic state :—5, The suspected liquid being treated with sulphurous acid and boiled for a short time, the arsenic acid loses oxygen and is con- verted into arsenious acid, which may be tested for as such (Wohler) :—6. Sulphuretted hydrogen does not precipitate a solution of arsenic acid, or an acidifled arseniate, until after the lapse of several hours ; and alkaline and neutral solutions, not at all. Uses. It is not employed in an uncombined state either in the arts or medicine; but some of its preparations are used in both. It is a more violent poison than even white arsenic. (Sir B. Brodie.) See Aeseniate, and the respective bases. ARSENICAL. Syn. Aesenica'lis, L.; Ae- SENiCAL, Fr.; Aesenikisch, Aesenikalisce, Aeseniz enthaltend, Ger. In chemistry and pharmacy, of arsenic, or containing it. See the respective bases and preparations. AR'SENIDE (-md). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ae- SEN'idum {or -i'dum), L. An arseniuret. ARSE"NIOUS (-sene'-y’us). Syn. Ae'SE- NOUSf; Aesenio'sus, L.; Aeseniedx, Fr. Of, formed from, or containing arsenic; de- noting a certain acid (see below). ARSE"NIOUS ACID. Syn. Az'sENict, White a.J, W. ox'ide of a.J*, Teeox'ide OF A.*, SeSQHIOX'IDE OF A.*, CoMMEE'CIAL A.*, FlOWEES of A.f; ACIDHM AESENIO'SUM (Ph. L.), AesenTchm al'bijm (Ph. E.), Ae- sen'ici ox'ydum a. vena'le (Ph. D.), &c., L. ; Acide aesenieijx, Aesenic blanc, OXYDE B. d’a., Fr.; Aesenigsadee, Ae- SENICHSTE S., GiFT MEHL, Ger.; AeSENICO BIANCO, It.; A. BLANCO, Sp. The arsenic, or white arsenic, of the shops. It is metallic ar- ^ senic in its first stage of oxygenation. Hist. The popular name of this substance is derived from the Greek dpaeviKov, an epithet once commonly applied to those natural sub- stances which possess strongly-marked poi- sonous and acrimonious properties. As ‘ orpi- ment’ was the usual form under which arsenic occurred, it consequently received the name; and hence has gradually arisen its present application. Scheele was the first to show that ^ white arsenic’ consists of a metal and oxygen; but it was Fourcroy who demon- strated its acid properties, and gave it the name of arsenious acid. See Aesenic {ante). Sources. The white arsenic of commerce is principally imported from Germany, where it is obtained in the process of roasting arseniu- retted cobalt-ores, in making zaffre. At Altenburgh it is procured from arsenical iron pyrites {mispickel); and at Reichenstein from native arsenide of iron. About 900 to 1000 tons are also annually collected in Cornwall, j being principally a secondary product of the process of roasting gray copper-ore and white mundic. The ‘ British arsenic worJcs^ in that county, are perhaps the finest in the world. The usual plan is to roast the powdered ore in mufile-furnaces; by which its ‘arsenic’ is converted into aesenious acid which escapes as vapour {smelting-house smoke), and passing into the condensing-chambers, is deposited