V52 ICHTHYOSIS-ILLUMINATION. a handle at top, called a \freezer,’ or ^freezing- pot,^ which is then plunged into a bucket con- taining ice broken small, and mixed with about half its weight of common salt, and is kept in rapid motion, backwards and forwards, until its contents are frozen. As the cream congeals and adheres to the sides, it is broken down with the ice-spoon, so that the whole may he equally exposed to the cold. As the salt and ice in the tub melt, more is added, until the process is finished. The ‘ ice-pot,’ with the cream in it, is next placed in a leaden ‘ ice- stand,’ is at once surrounded with a mixture of ice and salt, and closely covered over. In this state it is earned into the shop. The glasses are filled as required for immediate use, and should have been previously made as cold as possible. Plain ice-ceeam, or ceeam eoe icinq, is commonly made by one or other of the fol- lowing formulae:—• 1. New milk, 2 pints; yolks ofQ eggs; white sugar, 4 oz. ; mix, strain, heat gently, and cool gradually. 2. Cream, 1 pint; sugar, 4 oz.; mix, as above. 3. Cream and milk, of each, 1 pint; white sugar, \ lb, Flatoueed *ice-ceeams’ are made by mixing ' cream for icing’ with half its weight of mashed or preserved fruit, previously rubbed through a clean hair sieve; or, when the fla- vour depends on i\\& juice of fruit or on essen- tial oil, by adding a sufficient quantity of suMi substances. Haspbeeey and steawbeeey ICES are made according to the former me- thod ; LEMON, OEANGE, NOYEAU, and ALMOND ICES, by the latter method. In the same way any other article besides cream may be frozen. Chocolate eoe icing is made by rubbing 1 oz. of chocolate to. a paste Avith a table- spoonful of hot milk, and then adding ‘ cream for icing’ 1 pint. Coffee foe icing is made of ‘ cream for icing,’ 1 quart, to which a small tcacupful of the strongest possible clarified coffee has been added, together with 2 oz. of sugar and the yolks of 3 or 4 eggs. See Icing {below). ICHTHYO'SIS. See Fish-skin Disease. I'CING. (For cakes.) Syn. Siigae ice. The covering of concreted sugar with which the confectioners adorn their cakes. Prep. Beat the while of eggs to a full froth, with a little rose or orange-flower water; then add, gradually, as much finely powdered sugar as M'ill make it thick enough, beating it well all the time. For use, dust the cakes over with flour, then gently rub it off, lay on the icing with a flat knife, stick on the ornaments while it is wet, and place it in the oven for a few minutes to harden, but not long enough to discolour it. It may be tinged of various shades by the addition of the proper ‘ stains.’ ID'RIALIN. A fusible, inflammable sub- stance, found associated with the native cin- nabar of the mines of Idria, in Carniola. It ' is extracted from the ore by means of oil of turpentine. It is only slightly soluble in alco- hol and ether. When pure, it is white and crystalline. I ID'RYL. A hydrocarbon generally found associated with ideialine. IGASU'RIC ACID. Syn. Acidum igasuei- CUM, L. An acid associated with strychnine in the St. Ignatius’ bean and in nux vomica. j It may be obtained by digesting the rasped or ground beans first in ether and then in boiling alcohol, evaporating the latter decoction to dryness, diffusing the residuum through water adding a little carbonate of magnesia, again boiling for some minutes, filtering, Avashing the poAvder Avith cold water, and digesting it in alcohol, and filtering. The igasueate of magnesia thus obtained is dissolved in boiling water, the solution decomposed by acetate of lead, and the precipitate (igasueate of lead), after being Avashed and diffused through dis- tilled water, is decomposed by sulphuretted I hydrogen. The solution thus obtained yields crystals (igasueic acid) on being evaporated. It is soluble in both water and alcohol. IGNI"TI0N. In the laboratory, this term is commonly applied to the act of heating to redness or luminousness. See Calcination. ILLUMINA'TION, The act of illuminating ; or making luminous. For supplying artificial light to streets and the interiors of houses ! COAL gas and oils and fats are generally I employed. These illuminating agents are j compounds rich in CAEBON, upon the presence of Avhich the brightness of their flames de- I pends. Flame is gas or vapour heated to in- j candescence during the process of combustion. 1 A flame containing no solid particles emits ! but a feeble light, even if its temperature is the highest possible. Pure hydrogen, for instance, burns Avith a pale, smokeless flame, though Avith the production of con- siderable heat. On the other hand, Avax, paraffin, coal gas, &c., Avhile undergoing com- bustion, give out considerable light, because their flames contain innumerable solid particles I of carbon, Avhich act as radiant points. To give 1 the greatest degree of luminosity to flame, the supply of air must be proportioned to the cha- racter of the burning substance, and be insuffi- cient for the instantaneous combustion of the evolved gases; in AA'hich case the hydrogen takes all the oxygen, and the larger portion of the carbon is precipitated, and burnt in the solid form, at some little distance Avithin the outer surface of the flame. When the supply of air is suficient for the immediate andcomplete combustion of the whole of the combustible miit- ter, no such precipitation takes place, and the flame is neither AAdiite nor brilliant. The richest coal gas, mixed Avith sufficient air to convert all its hydrogen and carbon into Avater and carbonic acid, explodes Avith a pale blue flash; yet the same gas, Avhen consumed in the ordinary Avay, burns Avith a rich white flame. Every one must have noticed the effect