437 CHLOROMETRY. operation on stout cloth, unless it is packed more loosely than usual. (‘Trans. Glasgow Phil. Soc.0 ^ 3. (Gay-Lussac’s Indigo Process.) One part of the best indigo is dissolved in 9 parts of strong sulphuric acid, by the aid of a gentle heat j this solution is then mixed with distilled \ water, in such proportion, that 1 volume of chlorine gas shall exactly decolour 10 volumes of this solution. Each measure so decoloured is called a degree, and each degree is divided into fifths. 5 gr. of the best chloride of lime, I dissolved in 500 gr. measures of water, possess the above power, and indicate 10° or proof; or in other words, will decolour 10 times its ‘ volume of the indigo solution. • Obs. This method of chlorometry is ob- jectionable, and liable to error, from the indigo solution altering by keeping. When, how- ever, the proper precautions are used, it may be safely trusted for weak bleaching liquors. ' The following test, also proposed by Gay- Lussac, is free from these objections. 4. (Gay-Lussac’s Arsenious Acid Process.) I This depends on the conversion, by oxidation, ! of arsenious acid into arsenic acid, in the pre- sence of chlorine and water. To prepare the test-liquor,arsenious acid, 100 gr., are dissolved in about 4 fl. oz. of pure hydrochloric acid (free from sulphurous acid), and the solution diluted with wa^er until, on being poured into a graduated 10,000 grains- measure-glass, it occupies the volume of 7000 grains measure marked on the scale. Each 1000 grains measure of this liquid now con- tains 14*29 gr. of arsenious acid; correspond- ing to 10 gr. of chlorine, or y’jjth gr. of chlorine for every division or degree of the scale of the chlorometer. • 100 gr. of the chloride of lime to be ex- amined are next dissolved in water as before, and poured into a tube graduated up to 2000 grains measure. The whole is now well shaken, in order to obtain a uniformly turbid solution, and half of it (1000 grains measure) trans- I ferred to a graduated chlorometer, which is, I therefore, thus filled up to 0°, or the zero of 'I the scale, and contains exactly 50 gr. of the Ij chloride of lime under examination; whilst l| each degree or division of the scale contains ']only i gr. 11 1000 grains measure of the arsenious acid w test-liquor are now poured into a glass beaker, and a few drops of solution of sulphate of in- digo added in order to impart a faint but dis- tinct blue colour to it; the glass is then shaken ij so as to give a circular movement to the liquid, tj and whilst it is whirling round, the chloride of V lime solution from the chlorometer is gradually j and cautiously added, until the blue tinge given ' to the arsenious acid test-liquor is destroyed; ij care being taken to stir the mixture well I: during the whole process, and to stop as soon I as the decolorization is completed. Let us suppose, now, that in order to destroy the blue colour of the 1000 grains measure of the arsenious add test-liquor, 90 divisions or degrees of the chloride of lime solution have been employed. These 90 divisions, therefore, contained the 10 gr. of chlorine required to destroy the colour of the test-solution; and since each division represents ^ gr. of chloride of lime, 45 gr. of chloride of lime (10 gr. of chlorine) were present in the 90 divisions so employed, from which the per-centage strength may be ascertained. For— 45 : 10 ; : 100 : 22*22 The chloride of lime examined, therefore, contained 22^ per cent, (nearly) of chlorine. Obs. This method is extremely simple and trustworthy when properly employed; but to ensure accuracy, certain precautions must be adopted. Instead of pouring the test-liquor into the solution of the sample (as in alkali- metry), the solution of the sample must be poured into the test-liquor. If the contrary plan were adopted, the hydrochloric acid of the test-liquor would disengage chlorine gas so fast that much would be lost, and the result rendered incorrect. By pouring, on the con- trary, the chloride of lime solution into the arsenious acid solution, the chlorine is disen- gaged in small portions at a time, and meets with an abundance of arsenious acid to react on. The mixture of chloride of lime should also be employed turbid. 5. (lire’s Processes.)—a. Liquor of ammonia, of a known strength, tinged with litmus, is added to a solution of a given weight of the chloride under examination, until the whole of the chlorine is neutralized, which is known by the colour being destroyed. From the quan- tity of ammonia consumed the strength of the sample is estimated. b. During the above process nitrogen is evolved, and the estimation of the volume thus liberated has been proposed as another easy method of chlorometry by Dr. lire. The two solutions are mixed in an inverted and graduated syphon tube over mercury. (See engr.) The shut end (a) and the open end {b) are both graduated to one scale; for example, to of an inch, or to grain or 10 grain measures. The tube is filled with mercury, and then 10 measures of it are displaced at the open end, by inserting a wooden plug. This space being filled with a solution of a given weight of chloride of lime, the liquid is turned up into the shut end, by covering the open end with the finger and inverting the tube; a few drops of water may be sent up after it to wash the mercury. The liquor of ammonia being now let up causes a reaction, and the evolution of a quantity of nitrogen exactly equivalent to the chlorine present. The action may be accelerated by holding the sealed end of the tube over the flame of a