CAUSTICS--CELLULARES. 2. (Legrand.) As the last, but using nitric I acid. Both are recommended as caustics, in I syphilitic, scrofulous, and scorbutic ulcers, can- j cerous growths, &c.; applied by means of a I dossil of lint. I Gondret’s Caustic. Syn. Gondeet’s ammo- I NI'ACAL CAUSTIC; POMMADE DE GONDEET, Pr.; Causticum ammoniaca'le, L. J^rep. 1. See I Ammoniacal Ointment. ! 2. (Original formula.) Almond oil, 2 dr.; I suet, 4 dr.; lard, 6 dr.; melt together in a j wide-mouthed bottle, cool a little, add liquor of ammonia, 12 dr.; and agitate until cold. I A powerful rubefacient and counter-irritant; I used to produce an immediate revulsion. If I covered with a compress, it raises a blister in <1 4 or 5 minutes. I'odine Caustic. Syn. Causticum iodin'ii, .j L. Prep. (Lugol.) Iodine and iodide of po- <1 tassium, of each, 1 part; water, 2 parts; dis- |l solve. Used in similar cases to iodine paint, il and to scrofulous growths and ulcers. Lu"nar Caustic. Syn. La'pis infeena'lis, L. Prep. 1. fused and formed into sticks by pouring it into moulds. 2. (E. K. Squibb.) Nitrate of silver fused with a small quantity of chloride of iron, and formed into sticks or points. The chloride of iron gives toughness to the caustic, t Mercu''rial Caustic. S^jn. Caustic of ni- «jl TEATE OF MEECUEY ; CaUSTICUM AC'IDI HY- .l| deae"gyei nitea'tis, C. H. DEUTONITEATIS, . L. From mercury, 1 part; commercial nitric i|{ acid, 2 parts; dissolve. ' j 2. (Cutan. Hosp.) Mercury, 1 part; nitric >*1 acid (sp. gr. 1*5), 2 parts. ; j 3. (P. C.) As No. 1, but evaporating the solution to ^ths its weight. These liquids [ are applied with a pencil or lint, in scrofulous j and syphilitic ulcers and eruptions, and in I lupus, psoriasis, lepra, and other obstinate skin diseases; but their use requires great care. 4. (With arsenic.—Cutan. Hosp.) Mercury, 4 oz.; nitric acid, ^ oz.; arsenious acid, | dr.; I as before. j Ni'tric Caustic. Syn. SolidTfied niteic ACID; Causticum ni'teicum, L. Prep. (Dr. ! Bivallie.) Concentrated nitric acid is gra- ; dually dropped on a piece of lint, placed in a saucer or glass; as soon as the lint is gela- tinized, it is pressed into a suitable shape with a glass rod, and applied to the part; it must j he removed in 15 minutes. In cancerous j tumours, fungoid growths, &c. 0"piated Caustic. Syn. Causticum opia'- TUM, L. Prep. 1. Common caustic (potassa with lime), 4 dr.; powdered opium, 1 dr.; soft soap, \ q. s. to make a paste. Applied to fungous ulcers. Plunket’s Caustic. Upright crowfoot and lesser spear-wort, of each, 1 oz.; sulphur, 5 scrup.; white arsenic (in very tine powder), ' 1 dr.; beat to a smooth paste, form it into I balls, and di’y them in the sun. In cancer ; a i portion of one of the balls is reduced to pow- 407 der, which is mixed up with yelk qf egg, and applied on a piece of bladder. Poten'tial Caustic. Fused caustic potassa, E,ecamier’s Caustic. See Golden Caustic. Sulphu"ric Caustic. Syn. Causticum sul. phu"eicum, C. AC'IDI sulphu"eici, E. Prep, 1. Plaster of Paris made into a paste with oil of vitriol. 2. Saffron, lint, or unsized paper, soaked in 011 of vitriol, and triturated to a plastic mass. Zinc Caustic, Syn. Caustic of chloeiee OF ZINC, De. Canquoin’s cancee caustic I Causticum zinc'i, C. z. chloeid'i, L. Prep, 1. (Dr. Canquoin).—a. From chloride of zinc, 1 dr.; flour, 2 dr.; made into a stiff paste with water, q. s. b. From chloride of zinc, I dr,; flour, 3 dr. j water, q. s.; as the last. c. From chloride of zinc, 1 dr.; flour, 4 dr.; water, q. s.; as before. d. From chloride of zinc, 2 dr.; chloride of antimony, 1 dr.; flour, 5 dr.; as before. 2. (Alex. Ure.) As above, but substituting plaster of Paris for the flour there ordered. Uses, 8(c. As a caustic in cancer, lupus, skin-marks (ncevi), &c. It is formed into small cakes or wafers not exceeding 1 or 2 lines in thickness, one of which is applied to the part, and allowed to remain on from 6 to 12 hours, when it is removed, and the part covered with a poultice. It produces an eschar, often exceeding a quarter of an inch in depth. The chlorides must be in the form of powder, and well mixed with the flour previously to adding the water. The last (No. 1, d) is recommended in nodulated cancerous tumours, CAUS'TICS (Vet'erinary), In veterinarypracm tice any of the substances enumerated in the list of caustics at page 406 may be employed, care being had to select' the cheapest, and to employ them of proportionate strength to meet the requirements of the case. See Ve- TEEINAEY MEDICINE. CAVIARE. Syn. Cav'iae, Cay'iale. The salted roe of several species of sturgeon. It is much esteemed by the Russians, as well as by some other nations of northern Europe, and is occasionally eaten as a delicacy in this country. It is, however, very oil}’’, indiges- tible, and unwholesome, CAYENNE', See Capsicum, Peppees, CE'DAR-WOOD (Oil of). See Oils. Cedar-Wood (Tincture of). See Tinc- tuees. CE'DRAT. See Liqueues. CE'DRENE and CE'DROLA. The oil of cedar- wood, by careful distillation, is separable into two substances—a solid crystalline compound {cedrola), and a volatile liquid hydrocarbon \cedrene). The first may be converted into the other by distillation with anhydrous phos- phoric acid. CELLULA"RES. In botany, plants composed of cellular tissue only, forming one of the two great sub-kingdoms in De Candolle’s system of classification.