HYDROCHLORIC ETHER—HYDROCYANIC ACID. 738 of water, gently lieatlng it in a retort, con- nected with a Liebig’s condenser, and receiving the evolved gas into a fresh quantity of pure water. Iodine and arsenic may be removed by agitating it for a few minutes with some small pieces of bright copper foil, previously to rectification. Nitrous, nitric, sulphurous, and sulphuric acid, may be removed by a like agitation Avith a few grains of peroxide of manganese or red lead, in fine powder, and redistilling it as before; observing to reject the first portions that come over, as long as they discolour a w^eak solution of sulphate of indigo. HYDR0CHL0"RIC E'THER. See Ethee. HYDIIOCY'AIIATE. Syn. Hydeocyanas, L. A salt of hydrocyanic acid. See Cyanide, and below. HYDROCYAII'IC ACID. Syn. Cyanide op DYDEOGEN, CyANHYDEIC ACID, PeTJSSIC A. j Acidum HYDEOCYANICUM, a. pettssicijm, L. This remarkable acid, formed by the union of hydrogen and the compound gas cyanogen, Avas discovered by Scheele, in 1782; but it Avas not until 1815 that Gay-Lussac obtained it in a pure anhydrous form, and demonstrated its composition. Prep. 1. ANHYTiEOrs :—a. (Gay-Lussac.) Cyanide of mercury (in poAvder), 3 parts, and fuming hydrochloric acid, 2 parts, are mixed in a small tubulated retort, to which is adapted a long tube bent to a right angle at one of its extremities, and containing in its hori- zontal part some fragments of carbonate of lime, succeeded by others of chloride of cal- cium ; the free end of the tube is then intro- duced into a long narrow phial, or, Avhat is better,, a test-tube, surrounded Avith ice-and- salt, and a gentle heat is applied; the licjuid Avhich collects in the receiver is poured into a bottle furnished with a good stopper, Avhich is then covered Avith black or purple paper, and kept in the dark, iiwerted. b. (Liebig.) Pure crystallized ferrocyanide of potassium, 15 parts, water and sulphuric acid, of each, 9 parts, are distilled in a glass retort connected with a well-cooled receiver containing chloride of calcium (in coarse frag- ments), 5 parts; and the process is stopped as soon as the chloride in the receiver is perfectly covered by the distilled fluid; the acid is then decanted into a w^ell-stoppered bottle, as before. c. (Vauquelin.) Sulphuretted hydrogen, ren- dered perfectly dry in the usual manner, is passed over cyanide of mercury, in pow’der, contained in a horizontal glass tube, gently heated, and afterwards over carbonate of lead and fragments of chloride of calcium, arranged in the manner described aboA'e. (See No. 1.) The process should be stopped before quite the vA'hole of the cyanide is decomposed. 2. Dilute or medicinal :— ' a. (Ph. L. — Acidum hydeocyanicum DiLUTUM.) Sulphuric acid, 7 fl. dr. ,* distilled water, 4 fl. oz.; mix, pour the liquid into a retort, and when it has become cold, add of Jerrocyanide of potassium, 2 oz., previously dissolved in distilled ivater, \ pint; next adapt the retort to a well-cooled receiver containing distilled ivater, 8 fl. oz.; then apply a gentle heat by means of a sand bath, and let 6 fl. oz. of acid distil over into the Avater in the re- ceiver; lastly, add of distilled water, Q^.oz. more, or q. s., so that 12‘59 gr. of nitrate of silver dissolved in distilled water may be accurately saturated by 100 gr. of the newly prepared acid. It contains 2g of real hydro- cyanic acid. Product. 20 fl. oz. b. (Ph. E.) Ferrocyanide of potassium, 3 oz.; dissolved in distilled water, 11 fl. oz ; sulphuric acid, 2 fl. oz.; diluted Avith water, 5 fl. oz., and alloAved to cool; distil over 14 fl. oz., by the heat of a sand bath or naked gas-flame, and dilute the product Avith water, q. s. to make it exactly measure 16 fl. oz. It contains 3'84g of real acid, and is therefore nearly double the strength of the Ph. L. acid. c. (Ph. D.) Ferrocyanide of potassium, 1 oz.; oil of vitriol, 1 fl. oz.; water, 12 fl. oz.; proceed as last, and let 8 fl. oz. distil over; lastly, add to the liquor in the receiver, dis- tilled ivater, 8 fl. oz., or q. s. to make it up to exactly 16 fl. oz. Sp. gr., *997. It contains 2^ 2 of real acid. d. (Apothecaries’ HaU.) Bicyanide (cyanide) of mercury, 1 part; hydrochloric acid (sp. gr., 1T5), 1 part; diluted Avith water, 6 parts; the mixture is submitted to distillation until 6 parts have passed over, which are reduced to the standard strength (Ph; L.) with dis- tilled water. This process is not employed by the Society of Apothecaries now. Royle gives •995 as the sp. gr. of their preparation, indi- cating 2'9g of real acid. e. (Dr. Clark.) Tartaric acid, 1 part; f water, 40 parts; dissolve, add of pure cyanide | of potassium, 2| parts; agitate, and after repose decant the clear portion. Contains 3g of pure acid and a little bitartrate. f. (Everitt.) Cyanide of silver, 48| gr.; distilled water, 1 fl. oz., Avith Avhich hydrochloric acid, 391 gr., have been previously mixed; agitate together, and decant the clear liquid into another phial. Contains 2|| of pure acid. “An ounce of pure medicinal acid (Ph. L.) may be thus obtained for less than a shilling.” (Everitt.) g. (Laming.) Cyanide of potassium, 22 gr.; water, 6 fl. dr.; dissolve, add of crystallized tartaric acid, 50 gr., dissolved in rectified spirit, 3 fl. dr.; shake Avell together, and decant the clear. Each fl. dr. contains 1 gr. of the pure acid, or barely 2g. An excellent process wdien pure cyanide of potassium is at hand. h. (Magendie.) Pure anhydrous acid, 1 fl. oz.; water, 6 fl. oz. (or 1 to 8^ by Aveight). Contains 12g of pure acid. It is 6 times as strong as that of the Ph. L. i. (Scheele.) Prussian blue (pure and in flne poAvder), 10 parts; red oxide of mercury,