1360 ZINC. ZINC ; ZiNCI CYANIDUM, ZlNCI CYANURETUM, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) Add a solution of cyanide of jjotassium to another of pure sul- phate of zinc; wash, and dry the precipitate. Dose. ^ to 1 gr., twice a day; in epilepsy, hys- teria, and other nervous aftections, heartburn, worms, &c.; and as a substitute for hydro- cyanic acid. Ferrocy'anide of Zinc. Syn. Zinci fereo- CYANIDUM, L. Prep. By adding a hot solu- tion of ferrocyanide of potassium to a hot and strong solution of pure sulphate of zinc, and washing, and drying the precipitate. White. Dose. 1 to 4 gr.; in the same cases as the last. Flowers of Zinc*. Syn. Calx op zixcf, Fhilosophee’s wooLf; Zinci ploees, Zinci CALCINATUM, LaNA PHILOSOPHICAf, L. PHI- LOSOPHOErMf, Nihil ALBUMf, L. Oxide of zinc obtained by the rapid combustion of metallic zinc in a deep crucible, placed side- ways in a furnace, so that the flowers may be collected as they form. Antispasmodic. Dose. 2 to 8 gr.; in epilepsy, &c. Also used as a white pigment, but it dries badly. See Oxide OP Zinc (below). Flu'oride of Zinc. A white compound, scarcely soluble in water, obtained by acting on oxide of zinc with liquid hydrofluoric acid. Fulminate of Zinc. See page 672. I'odide of Zinc. Syn. Hydriodate of ziNcf; Zinci iodidijm, Zinci hydriodas, L. Frep. 1. (Duflos.) Iodine, 2 parts; granu- lated zinc, 1 part; water, 4 parts; proceed as for IODIDE OP IRON, oiily employing a glass or porcelain vessel. 2. (Magendie.) Iodine, 17 parts; (in powder), 20 parts; mix, and sublime in a matras. Prop., cfc. Deliquescent. Chiefly used externally; 15 gr. to water, 6 fl. oz., as a collyrium in scrofulous inflammation of the eye (Poulet); 1 dr. to lard, 1 oz., as a power- ful resolvent in scrofulous and other glandular swellings, rubbed on the part twice a dav. (Ure.) Lac'tate of Zinc. Syn. Zinci lactas, L. Prepared from zinc in the same way as lactate OP IRON is from that metal. Ox'ide of Zinc. Syn. Protoxide op zinc; Zinci oxydum (Ph. L. E. & !).), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Sulphate of zinc (pure), 1 lb.; sesquicarbonate of ammonia, 6^ oz.; dissolve each separately in 6 quarts of water. Alter, mix the solutions, well wash the precipitate with water, and calcine it for 2 hours in a strong fire. The Ph. E. is nearly similar. 2. (Ph. D.) Place carbonate of zinc in a covered clay crucible, and expose it to a very low red heat, until a portion taken from the •entre of the mass ceases to effervesce on being dropped into dilute sulphuric acid. 3. See Eloavers op Zinc (above). Prop., Sfc. A Avhite, tasteless powder; in- soluble in water; freely soluble in acids, the solution yielding colourless and easily crys- I tallizable salts; strongly basic. “ Pulveru- j lent, yellowish-white; it is (entirely) soluble | in ammonia, potash, and hydrochloric acid.” j (Ph. L.) “Entirely soluble in dilute nitric j acid, without effervescence; and this solution is not affected by nitrate of baryta, but yields a white precipitate with ammonia, entirely soluble in excess of the precinitant.” (Ph. L. 1836.) Uses, Sfc. It is tonic and antispasmodic, and has been advantageously used in chorea, epilepsy, and other nervous and spasmodic affections. Dose. 1 to 6 gr., twice a day. It is also used as a dusting powder, and to make an ointment. It has been proposed as a sub- stitute for wTiite lead in painting, than which it covers better, but dries slower, and hence requires the addition of dried white vitriol. This oxide is the only compound which zinc forms with oxygen. See Flowers of Zinc (abovi). Sul'phate of Zinc. Syn. White copperas*. White vitriol* ; Zinci sulphas (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Granulated zinc, 5 oz.; diluted sulphuric acid, 1 quart; dissolve. Alter, evaporate to a pellicle, and set it aside to crystallize. 2. (Ph. D.) Zinc (laminated or granulated), 4 oz.; oil of vitriol, 3 fl. oz.; water, 1 pint; mix in a porcelain capsule, and, when gas ceases to be evolved, boil for 10 minutes. Alter through calico, and evaporate the filtrate to dryness; dissolve the dry salt in water, 1 pint; frequently agitate the solution, when cold, i during 6 hours, with prepared chalk, ^ oz.; \ next filter, acidulate the filtrate with nitric acid of commerce and dilute sulphuric acid, of each, 1 fl. dr.; evaporate until a pellicle forms on the surface, and set it aside to crystallize ; dry the crystals on bibulous paper, without heat, and preserve them in a bottle. More crystals may be obtained from the mother- liquor. 3. The common sulphate of zinc of commerce frequently contains copper, cadmium, lead, iron, and manganese, and nearly always one or more of them. By digesting its concen- trated solution for some time with metallic zinc, it may be freed from copper, lead, and CADMIUM, for these metals are all reduced and precipitated in a metallic state; or, the acidu- lated solution may be treated with sulphu- retted hydrogen as long as any precipitate forms. In order to separate the iron, chlorine gas may be passed into the solution, by wbicli | the iron is converted into the protochloride; if this solution be exposed to the air for a I length of time, it absorbs oxygen, and oxide of iron is deposited as a yellow powder, from which the solution must be filtered. When | the sulphate contains manganese, which is j not very often the case, the solution must be boiled up a few times with purified charcoal, ; filtered and evaporated. (‘ Jour, fiir prakt. i Chem.’) The product of each of the above • formula? is nearly chemically pure.