APIS—APOPLEXY. 198 I It has also been found useful in intermittent neuralgias and the nocturnal sweats of phthisis. —Dose. 5 to 15 dropSj in capsules. A'PIS. [L.] The bee. In entomology, a genus of hymenopterous insects of the family anthoph'ila or mellif'era, section apia”ri(B. (Latreille.) The mouth has two jaws, and a proboscis infolded in a double sheath; the ivings are four; the two foremost covering the hinder ones when at rest. The sexes are three—prolific females or queens, unprolific females or workers (commonly termed neuters), and males or drones. The females and work- ing bees have a sting. The honey or hive bee is distinguished from the other species of this genus by having the femora of the posterior pair of legs furnished with a smooth and con- cave plate on the outer side, and fringed with hair, forming a basket or pocket for the recep- tion and conveyance of the pollen of plants; and also in being destitute of spines at the extremity. The Linn£ean genus includes nearly 60 species. See Bees. Apis Mellifica. [Linn.] The honey-bee. APLANATTC. In optics, applied as an epithet to lenses, of which the figure, as well as the materials of which they are composed, are such that, with a given index of refraction, the amount of aberration, both chromatic and spherical, is insignificant, or the least that can possibly be obtained. See Abeeeation, Acheomatism, Lens, &c. AP0-, [Gr.] In composition, from ; denot- ing derivation, separation, opposition, or de- parture. It is a common prefix in words from the Greek, and is etymologically the same as the Latin ab-. APOCRENIC ACID (ap-o-). Syn. Acidem apoceenTcem, L. ; AciDE Apoceenique, Fr. A soluble acid resembling and commonly found associated with ‘ crenic acid,^ from which it is derived. See Ceenic Acid. APOC'YNINE (p6s'-e-mn). Syn. Apocy- ni'na, L. a bitter, crystallisable substance, found in apo"cynum cannabi’num (Linn.), or the Indian hemp of North America. See Alkaloid. AP'ODES (-o-dez). [L., Fr.; prim., Gr.] Syn. Ap'oda. Footless (animals). In icthy- ology, applied by Linnseus to his first order of fishes, without ventral fins j and by Cuvier to a sub-order of malacopterigians, or soft-finned fishes, having no ventral fins or homologues of the posterior extremities. It includes the eel, lance, sword-fish, wolf-fish, and many other similar species. AP'OPiiEXY (-pleks-e). Syn. ApoplexTa, Apoplex'is, L. (from aTro-n-Xr](tco), I astound or strike down, Gr.); Ai oplexie, Fr.; ScHLAGFLUSS, Ger. A disease so named on account of the suddenness and violence of its attacks. Symp. Sudden suspension or loss of the powei’s of sense and motion; the heart con- tinuing to beat and the lungs to act, but generally with difficulty. During the fit the patient usually lies in a state resembling ' sleep, or the stupor induced by drunkenness. In some cases there is paralysis of one side of ; the body, and convulsions of the other. In the sanguineous or sthenic variety, or the one ^ which is most common, the pulse is hard and full, the countenance flushed and bloated, and the breathing stertorous; in the serous or asthenic variety, the pulse is feeble, the skin cold, and the countenance pale. “The pre- sence of convulsions is indicative of great danger.” (Dr. Cheyne.) In both cases the patient is generally found lying on his back, in ! a state of complete insensibility, which defies every effort to arouse him; the eyelids almost cover the eyes, which are fixed and devoid of intelligence, whilst the pupils scarcely change their dimensions under the varying influence of light and darkness; the lips are usually purple or very dark; and both the lips and nostrils have generally a slight trem- bling movement communicated to them by the deep and laborious breathing of the patient. Treat. In this disease, more than perhaps any other, medical aid should be immediately sought. In the mean time the patient should be placed in an easy posture, in a well-ven- tilated apartment, and in the sanguineous or sthenic variety, in as erect a position as pos- sible ; but in the asthenic variety, when the face is pale, with the head and shoulders only mode- rately elevated. The neckcloth should be re- moved, and the clothes loosened, and the head and neck laid bare. Crov/ding round the patient > should be particularly avoided, and a free expo- i sure to fresh air secured in every possible way. ” When medical aid cannot be immediately pro- cured, blood should be freely taken (say 15 to 20 fl. oz., or more) from the arm, by any person competent to do so ; unless the face be pale, and the pulse feeble, when cupping at the back of the neck, or leeches behind the ears, should be substituted for ordinary bleeding. Cold water should be dashed on the head, the legs placed in pretty warm water, and blisters or mustard poultices applied between the shoul- ders. In the mean time 8 or 10 gr. of calomel may be administered, and its action subse- quently promoted by the use of saline pur- gatives and stimulating clysters. When there is a difficulty of swallowing, a couple of drops of croton oil may be applied to the tongue; or it may be poured on sugar, before placing it in the mouth. Indeed, this mode of relieving the bowels should be adopted in all extreme cases, as soon as possible. Emetics should be carefully avoided. The only exception to this rule is, when the stomach is distended by a heavy undigested meal; when an emetic is hazarded as greatly the least of two evils. Nasal stimulants, as smelling salts or aromatic vinegar, should also be avoided. If the bleeding - has not aftbrded some relief, it may be repeated in from 3 to 5 hours. When these means prove successful, the remainder of the treatment may p consist in the administration of mild purga- i