796 IRON. water, 2 fl. oz., as last; this solution is then added to another, formed by dissolving sul- phate of iron, 4 oz., in water, ^ pint; the whole is then mixed with liquor of potassa (Ph. D.), 2| pints, and after being boiled for 5 minutes, is collected on a calico tilter, and washed, &c., as before; and is to be preserved in a well- stoppered bottle. Prop., 8(c. The hydrated oxide is a black sand-like substance, consisting of very minute crystals. When pure, it is “ attracted by the magnet, and is entirely soluble in hydrochloric acid; and ammonia added to the solution throws down a black precipitate.” (Ph. E.) This oxide is the chief product of the oxidation of iron at a high temperature in the air and in aqueous vapour. It is more permanent than the protoxide, but incapable of forming salts. Dose. 5 to 20 gr. two or three times a day. It is said to be less irritating than the } sesquioxide. 3. Sesquiox'ide of Iron. Syn. Peeric oxide, ! Peroxide oe iron. Red oxide oe i. ; Feeri SESQmOXTDIJM, F. PEEOXYDDM, F. OXYDIJM RiJBRDM, L. This substance is found native under several forms, but that employed in the arts is prepared by one or other of the fol- lowing methods :— Prep. 1. Anhydrous:— a. From metallic iron ;— (Rust oe iron. Crude carbonate oe i.* ; Ferei sesquioxy- DUM HYDRATUM CRUDUM*, FeRRUGO*, FeRRI | RUBIGO, L.) From iron wire or .clean iron i filings cut into pieces, moistened with water, and exposed to the air until completely con- verted into rust; it is then ground with water, elutriated, and dried, in a similar way to that adopted for chalk. For sale, it is usually made up into small conical loaves or lumps. h. By Calcination;—(Brown-red colco- THAE*, Crocus*, Indian red. Rouge, Jew- eller’s R.; Caput mortuum yiteioli*, C. M. SULPHUEATUS*, CeOCUS MARTIS*, FeRRI OXYDUM EUBRUM, L.)—a. Calcine sulphate of iron until the water of crystallization is ex- pelled, then roast it with a strong fire until acid vapours cease to rise; cool, wash the residuum with water until the latter ceases j to affect litmus, and dry it. I j3. (Berzelius.) Green sulphate of iron, 100 | parts; common salt, 42 parts; calcine, wash ; well with water, dry, and levigate the re- siduum. This process yields a cheap and beau- tiful product, which is frequently sold for the EEERi SESQUioxYDUM—Ph. L.; hut it is less soluble, and therefore unfitted for a substitute for that preparation. i c. By Precipitation;—(Feeri sesquioxydum —Ph. L. & D., Feeri oxydum rubrum—Ph. E., Feeri carbonas*, Feeri subcarbonas*, L.)—a. By precipitating a solution of sesqui- sulphate or sesquichloride of iron with am- monia, in excess, and washing, drying, and j igniting the resvltm^hydratedperoxide. Pure; i anhydrous. | (Ph. L.) Sulphate of iron, 41b.; car- bonate of soda, 4b\h. 2 oz.; dissolve each sepa- rately in water, 3 gall.; mix the solutions whilst hot, set the mixture aside, that the precipitate may subside, and subsequently wash and dry it as before. Contains water, and a trace of alkali. y. (Ph. E.) Prom sulphate of iron, 4 oz.; carbonate of soda, 5 oz.; water, 4 pints; as the last. (Ph. E.) By heating in a crucible the EEERI PEROXYDUM HYDRATUM—Ph. D. (see below). 2. Hydrated .-—(Ferric hydrate ; Feeri PEROXYDUM HYDRATUM—Pll. D., FeRRUGO —Ph. E.)—a. (Ph. E.) Sulphate of iron, 4 oz.; oil of vitriol, 3^ fl. dr.; water, 1 quart; mix, dissolve, boil, and gradually add of nitric acid, 9 fl. dr.; stirring well and boiling for a minute or two after each addition, until the liquor yields a yellowish-brown precipitate with ammonia; it must then be filtered and preci- pitated with liquor of ammonia (fort.), 3^ fl. oz.; rapidly added and well mixed in ; collect the precipitate, wash it well with water, drain it on a calico filter, and dry it at a heat not ex- ceeding 180° Fahr. When intended as an an- tidote for arsenic, it should not be dried, but kept in the moist or gelatinous state. b. (Ph. D.) Sulphate of iron, 8 oz; water, ^ pint; sulphUftic acid, 6 fl. dr.; dissolve; oxi- dize the solution with nitric acid, 4 fl. dr., diluted with water, 2 fl. oz.; proceed as last, and pour the liquid into liquor of potassa—Ph. D., 1 quart; the precipitate, after being well w'ashed, is to be enclosed, in the pasty state, in a porcelain pot, the lid of w'hich is rendered air-tight by lard. Prop. Sesquioxide of iron, prepared by precipitation (1, c), is an impalpable powder, of a brownish-red colour, odourless, insoluble in water, freely soluble in acids, and possessing a slightly styptic taste, especially when recently prepared. When exposed to heat, its colour is brightened, its sp. gr. increased, and it is ren- dered less easily soluble in acids. The ses- quioxide prepared by calcination is darker and brighter coloured, less soluble, and quite taste- less. It has either a scarlet or purplish cast, according to the heat to which it has been exposed. The finest Indian red, or crocus, usually undergoes a second calcination, in which it is exposed to a very intense heat. It is then known as ^purple brown.’ The best jeweller’s rouge is prepared by calcining the precipitated oxide until it becomes scarlet. The RUST OP IRON contains some combined water, and is more soluble than the oxide pre- pared by calcination. The hydrated sesquioxide (2.) is of a yel- lowish-brown colour, and though it can be dried without decomposition, it requires to be kept in a moist state. It is best preserved in a well-stoppered bottle, filled with recently distilled or boiled water. Pur. Medicinal sesquioxide of iron (ferei SESQUIOXYDUM, Ph. L. & D.) “ is soluble in