FIXED AIR—FLANNEL. 651 and after being drained, and pressed dry in a I clean napkin, dissolved by boiling in soft \ water, q. s. The decoction is strained through cambric, and when nearly cold is mixed with I about ^rd or ith of its volume of eau de Cologne \ or other scented spirit, with the further addi- I tion of a few drops (5 or G) of oit of cloves. * Sometimes a little brandy is added to the mu- I cilage, and when it is intended for present use, I as is common with home manufacturers, the i spirit is frequently omitted altogether. \ oz. I of the prepared moss is fully enough for f pint ' of strained decoction, if rightly managed. : 2. From quince seed boiled in water, as the last, i oz. yields nearly f pint of strained 1 decoction. 3. Pale gum arabic (picked), oz.; rose water, %fl. oz.; pure water, 3 fl. oz.; dissolve. 1 4. Gum arabic, 3| oz.; water, ^ pint; dis- I solve, and drop in eau de Cologne, gradually, I until the cloudiness at first occasioned ceases I to be removed by agitation ; the next day de- i cant the clear portion. All of the above are I very superior, and keep well. 5. (Redwood.) Gum tragacanth, 1^ dr.; I water, 7 oz.; proof spirit, 3 oz.; otto of roses, j 10 drops; macerate 24 hours, and strain, j 6. Malt, 7 oz.; hot water (that will barely permit the finger to be held in it without I pain), 2 pint; infuse in a covered jug or basin, ! gently press out the liquid, and as soon as cold, add of proof spirit (or brandy or Cologne water), 2^ Ji. oz., and strain. Obs. Bandoline is used by ladies and by hairdressers for stiffening the hair, and to 1 make it curl firmly and remain in place. It i is applied either by moistening the fingers and I passing the hair through them, or by means of I a small sponge. See Pommade. : FIXED AIR. See Carbonic Acid. II FIXED OILS. See Fat and Oils. I FLAKE WHITE. See White Pigments. j FLAME. Gas or vapour in an incandescent 1 state. The light emitted from pure flame is exceedingly feeble ; illuminating power being i almost entirely dependent upon the presence I of solid matter. See Illumination, and I below. , Flame Colours. The vapours of metallic I compounds communicate colours to flames. The characteristic colours of some metals are very beautiful, and their exhibition forms a favorite experiment of chemical lecturers. The coloured flames are generally produced by the combustion of alcohol or rectified spirit upon certain salts in fine powder. In this J way a green colour is communicated by bora- I cic acid, or chloride of copper ; a RED one by I the nitrates of iron, lime, or slrontia ; a violet, I by potassa and its salts; and a vellow, by [ nitrate of soda. Messrs. Church and Crookes j have recently described a mode of exhibiting ' the characteristic flames of the metals which ; is admirably adapted for the lecture-table.* i ‘ Gun-paper,’ made in the same way as ‘ gun- Scc “ luteUecUial Observer" Aiiiil, 1863. cotton,* is to be soaked in solutions of the chlo- rates of the different metals, dried with care, and kept dry. A good ‘ gun-paper ’ for the purpose is prepared by soaking strips of Swedish filtering-paper for ten minutes in a mixture of 4 parts oil of vitriol with 5 parts strong nitric acid, both by measiire. 'I'he strips, when taken out of the acid, should be washed first with cold, and then with hot rain or dis- tilled water, till the washings are no longer sour'to the taste. The solutions of the me- tallic salts need not be very strong; but if they are warm, the strips of ‘gun-paper’ will be more easily and completely saturated with them. Since some of the chlorates attract moisture from the air, it is better to dry the papers prepared with them before the fire pre- vious to lighting them. They are shown to best advantage when a strip is loosely crum- pled up into a pellet, lighted quickly at one corner, and thrown up into the air against a dark background. They leave after burning, if properly prepared, no ash whatever. Paper prepared with the salt of potassa gives a flash of VIOLET flame, that prepared with the soda salt the characteristic yellow flame, and that with chlorate of baryta a very beautiful GREEN light. The chlorates of strontia, lithia, and lime, when thus ignited, give intense colours. The VIOLET-BLUE flame of copper is well seen, even with the chloride of that metal, while paper soaked in nitrate of potassa shows the potassium flame better than if the chlorate be used. ‘ Gun-paper ’ prepared with a very weak solution of chloride or chlorate of thal- lium shows the characteristic sprig-green flame of that metal with great distinctness. Chlorate of baryta, being an article of com- merce, may be employed for the preparation of the other chlorates, it being merely neces- sary to add to this salt in solution an exactly equivalent quantity of the sulphate or carbon- ate of the metal whose chlorate is desired. For instance, in order to make ‘chlorate of copper,’ 15*1 gr. of chlorate of baryta being dissolved in hot distilled water, a boiling solu- tion containing 12*5 gr. of pure crystallized sulphate of copper is to be added to it. Inso- luble white ‘ sulphate of baryta’ falls, while the solution, filtered and evaporated, yields the new chlorate in crystals. See Fires, Pyro- TECHNY, &c. FLAN'NEL. It has been shown by the ex- periments of Count Rumford that the conduct- ing power of the difierent materials employed for clothing varies considerably. A thermo- meter surrounded with cotton wool, and heated by immersion in boiling water, took 1046 seconds to lose 135° Fahr., when plunged into a bath of melting ice; but, under the same circumstances, when sheep's wool was em- ployed, 1118 seconds elapsed before a like sinking of the thermometer took place (‘ Phil. Trans.,’1792); thus showing the greater con- ducting power of the fonner, and consequently the superiority of the latter substance for the