845 LIQUEUE. I sphere (deliquescence), or the action of a body already fluid (solution). i Liquefaction of Gases. Under the combined influence of pressure and cold, nearly all the ! gases may be liquefied. The first experiments in this direction were made by Faraday, who ' succeeded in reducing to the liquid condition ' 8 bodies which had hitherto been regarded as permanent gases, namely, ammonia, carbonic I ACID, chlorine, cyanogen, HYDROCHLORIC j ACID, NITROUS OXIDE, SULPHURETTED HY- I DROGEN, and SULPHUROUS ACID. His method ' of proceeding was very simple j the materials were sealed up in a strong, narrow, glass tube, ' bent so as to form an obtuse angle, together [ with a little ^ pressure gauge,’ consisting of a ' slender tube closed at one end, and having ' within it, near the open extremity, a globule of mercury. The gas, being disengaged by 1 the application of heat or otherwise, accumu- I lated in the tube, and by its own pressure ^ brought about liquefaction. The force re- ' quired for this purpose was judged of by the j diminution of volume of the air in the pressure gauge. By employing powerful condensing ! syringes, and an extremely low temperature, ' Faraday has since succeeded in liquefying I OLEFIANT GAS, HYDRIODIC and HYDROBROMIC I ACIDS, PHOSPHURETTED HYDROGEN, and the I GASEOUS FLUORIDES OF SILICON and BORON. ' Oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, nitric oxide, car- bonic oxide, and coal gas, refused to litjuefy at I the temperature of—166° Fahr., while subj ected j to pressures varying in different cases from I 27 to 58 atmospheres. ^ Carbonic acid is liquefied on the lar^e scale by condensing it in strong vessels of gun- I metal or boiler-plate. “ It requires a pressure I of betw'een 27 and 28 atmospheres at 32° Fahr.” i (Adams.) The liquefied acid is colourless and limpid, lighter than water, and four times more expansible than air; it mixes in all pro- portions with ether, alcohol, naphtha, oil of turpentine, and suljAuret of carbon; and is insoluble in water and fat oils. When a jet of liquid carbonic acid is allowed to issue into the air from a narrow aperture, such an intense degree of cold is produced by the evaporation of a part, that the remainder freezes to a solid (solid CARBONIC acid), and falls in a shower of snow. This substance, which may be col- lected, affords a means of producing extreme cold. Mixed with a little ether, and poured upon a mass of mercury, the latter is almost instantly frozen. The temperature of this mixture in the air was found to be—106° Fahr.; when the same mixture was placed beneath the receiver of an air-pump, and exhaustion raj)ldly performed, the temperature sank to --166°. This degree of cold was employed in laraday’s last experiments on the liquefaction of gases. See Carbonic acid. Refrigera- tion, &c. LIQUEUR. [Fr.] Sijn. Cordial. A stimu- lating beverage, formed of weak spirit, aro- matized and sweetened. The manufacture of liqueurs constitutes the trade of the ‘ com- pounder,’ ‘ rectifier,’ or ‘ liquoriste.’ The materials employed in the preparation of liqueurs or cordials are rain or distilled water, white sugar, and clean flavourless spirit. To these may be added the substances employed as ^flnings* when artificial clarification is had recourse to. The utensils and apparatus required in the business are those ordinarily found in the wine and spirit cellar; together with a copper still, furnished with a pewter head and a pewter worm or condenser, when the method ‘by distillation’ is pursued. A barrel, hogs- head, or ram puncheon, sawn in two, or simply ‘unheaded,’ as the case may demand, forms an excellent vessel for the solution of the sugar; and 2 or 3 fluted funnels, with some good woollen flltering paper, are occasionally found useful for filtering the aromatic essences used for flavouring. Great care is taken to ensure the whole of the utensils, &c., being perfectly clean and‘sweet,’and well‘seasoned/ in order that they may neither stain nor flavour the substances placed in contact with them. In the preparation or compounding of liqueurs, one of the first objects which engages the operator’s attention is the production of an alcoholic solution of the aromatic principles which are to give them their peculiar aroma and flavour. This is done, either by simple solution or maceration, as in the manufacture of tinctures and medicated spirits, or by ma- ceration and subsequent distillation. The products, in this country, are called essences or SPIRITS, and by the French infusions, and are added to the solution of sugar (syrup or capillaire) or to the dulcified spirit, in the proportions required. Malt or molasses spirit is the kind usually employed for this purpose in England. As before observed, it should be of the best quality; as, if this is not the case, the raw flavour of the spirit is perceptible in the liquor. Rectified spirit of wine is generally very free from flavour, and when reduced to a proper strength with clear soft water, forms a spirit admirably adapted for the preparation of cordial liquors. Spirit weaker than about 45 o. p., which has been freed from its own essential oil, by careful rec- tification, is known in trade under the title of ‘pure' ‘flavourless,' ‘plain,’ or ‘silent spirit’ Before macerating the ingredients, if they possess the solid form, they are coarsely pounded, bruised, sliced, or ground, as the peculiar character of the substance may indi- cate. This is not done until shortly before submitting them to the action of the men- struum ; as, after they are bruised, they rapidly lose their aromatic properties by ex- posure to the air. When it is intended to keep them for any time in the divided state, they should be preserved in well-corked bottles or jars. The practice of drying the ingredients before pounding them, frequently adopted by