1023 OXYGENATION—OXYMEL. liiece of iron wire ignited at the point, and [uddenly plunged into a jar of oxygen, burns Ivitli great brilliancy and rapidity. Charcoal [loes the same. I Estim. The estimation of the quantity of ixygen in an oeganic compotind has already leen described. Eor determining the quan- ity present in atmospheric air, and other ike GASEOUS MIXTURES, Dohereiner has pro- tosed the use of 'pyrogallic acid.^ The air \<.nder examination (freed from moisture) is |iieasured into an accurately graduated tube i'ver mercury, capable of holding about 30 jubic centimetres, and which it should frds iill. A solution formed of 1 part of dry hy- drate of potassa and 2 parts of water, and in olume about jj'gth that of the air, is next in- troduced by means of a pipette with a curved |)oint, and is gently agitated therewith in the jas for a short time; the decrease of volume fives the proportion of carbonic acid pre- ent. A solution of pyrogallic acid (1 gramme, II 5 or 6 centimetres of water), equal in volume 0 one half that of the solution of potassa al- eady used, is then introduced by means of mother pipette, and the mixed liquids are cau- iously shaken together over the inner surface »f the tube. When absorption ceases (which t does in a few minutes), the quantity of re- idual air (nitrogen) is read off from the fraduations; the difference in volume before nd after the introduction of the pyrogallic cid indicates the proportion of oxygen. 'his is a mere modification of Prof. Liebig’s iietliod. 1 gramme of pyrogallic acid in com- lination with of potassa is capable of bsorbing about 189 cubic centimetres of oxy- lfen. (Dobereiner.) Other methods employed or the analysis of air, depending on the increase r loss of weight when the air is passed over ■nely divided copper heated to redness, the loss f volume when the air is exploded in a ‘ eudio- leter’ with half its bulk of hydrogen, or when stick of phosphorus is left in it for some ours, are well known, and described at length 1 every elementary work on chemical analysis, 'he last method, although less accurate than he others, has the advantage of extreme sim- licity. Uses. Hitherto the trouble and expense of reparing oxygen has precluded its direct use n the large scale. It has been employed to ncrease the illuminative and heating power of imps, and to render vitiated air respirable, :c.; and when largely diluted with atmo- pheric air, or condensed in water, as a reme- iial agent in asphyxia arising from the inha- ation of carbonic acid and carbonic oxide. Concluding remarks. Oxygen gas may be ollected in the usual way, either over water, iiercury, or in bags; or, on the large scale, n gasometers. The purity of the products of he several processes given above depends on he substances from which the gas is obtained icing themselves pure. For nice experiments, ho first portion of gas should be allowed to escape, or be received apart, as with this, as with the other gases, it is contaminated with the atmospheric air of the apparatus. The gas procured from manganese or nitre may be purified by passing it through milk of lime or a solution of caustic potassa; it will still, however, retain some traces of nitrogen. See Organic Substances, Ozone, &c. OXYGENATION. Syn. Oxygenizement. The act or process of combining with oxygen. It is of more general application than the word ‘ oxidation/ which is frequently con- founded with it, but which is only correctly applied when an oxide is formed. OXYGENI’ZED LARD. Syn. Oxygenated AXUNGE; Axungia oxygenata, L. Prep. (Ph. Bat. 1805.) From prepared lard, 16 parts, melted over a slow fire, and then mixed with nitric acid, 1 part; the , combination being promoted by constant stirring with a glass rod, until it ceases to affect litmus paper. It should be extremely white, and should be kept in the dark. See Ointment of Nitric Acid . OX'YMEL. Syn. Oxymel, L. An acidu- lous syrup made of honey and vinegar. There are only two oxymels in the last Ph. L. The ingredients in an oxymel should be of such a character, and in such proportions, as to pro- duce a mixture of the proper consistence with- out evaporation. Oxymel of Col'chicum. Syn. Oxymel col- CHici coRMi, Oxymel colchici, L. Prep. (Ph. D. 1826.) Fresh corms (roots) of mea~ dow saffron, 1 oz.; distilled vinegar, 1 pint (wine measure); macerate for 2 days, press out the liquor, filter, add of clarified honey, 2 lb., and boil down the mixture to the con- sistence of a syrup, frequently stirring. Bose. 1 to 3 dr., twice or thrice a day; in gout, rheumatism, dropsy, &c. Oxymel of Garlic. Syn. Oxymel alii, L. Prep. (Ph. L. 1746.) Sliced garlic, 1| oz.; caraway seed and sweet fennel seed, of each, 2 dr.; boiling vinegar, 8 fl. oz.; infuse, strain, and add of clarified honey, 10 oz. In hooping- cough, chronic diarrhoea, rheumatism, &c. Pec'toral Oxymel. Syn. Oxymel pectorale, 0. INUL^ compositum, L. Prep. (Ph. Br.) Elecampane, 1 oz.; orris root, 5 oz.; water, Ig pint; boil to ^ pint, strain, add of honey, 16 oz.; ammoniacum, 1 oz.; (dissolved in) vinegar, 3 fl. oz.; lastly, boil to an oxymel. Dose. 1 spoonful, occasionally; in coughs, humid asthma, &c. Sim'ple Oxymel. Syn. Vinegar syrup, Acetated honey ; OXYMEL (Ph. L. & D.), Oxymel simplex, Mel acetatum, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Acetic acid (sp. gr. 1*048), 7 fi. oz.; distilled water, 8 11. oz.; mix, and add them to honey, 5 lb., previously made hot. This con- tains only one half the acid ordered in the Ph. L. 1836. 2. (Ph. D.) Clarified honey, 1 lb.; acetic acid (sp. gr. 1*044), 3 oz. ; as before. Stronger than the last. 3. (Ph. L. 1836.) Honey, 10 lb.; acetic