ARROW-ROOT. 210 2Gg of starch, of which 23§ may he obtained as arrow-root and the rest by boiling.^ Arrow-root. Syn. Maean'ta (Ph. L. & E.), Am'ylum maean't^, F^c'ula m., L. ; Racine FLECHIEEE, PiVOT, Fr. ; PeEILWUEZ, P.-SATZ- MEHL, Ger. The starch or fecula obtained from the ^ rhizoma’ (Ph. L.) or * tubers’ (Ph. E.) of maran'ta arundina'cea (Linn.; see above), and which forms the true ‘ arrow-root’ of com- merce. Prep. The fecula is extracted from the tubers when they are about 10 or 12 months old, by a process similar to that by which the farina is obtained from potatoes. In Ber- muda the tubers, after being washed, are de- rived of their paper-like scales and every iscoloured and defective part by hand; they are then again washed and drained, and next subjected to the action of a wheel-rasp, the starch being washed from the comminuted tubers with rain-water; the millcy liquid is passed through a hair-sieve, or a coarse cloth, and allowed to deposit its fecula. This is then allowed to drain, after which it is again care- fully washed with clean water, again drained, and, after being thoroughly dried in the air or sun, is at once packed for market. (Cogswell.) In St. Vincent (on the Hopewell estate), a cylindrical crushing-mill, tinned-copper wash- ing machines, and German-silver palettes and shovels, are employed; whilst the drying is effected in extensive ‘sheds,’ under white gauze, to exclude insects.^ In Jamaica, the washed tubes are generally pulped in deep wooden mortars; machinery being seldom em- ployed in any part of the process. Prop., ^c. A light, dull, dead-white, taste- less, inodorous powder or small pulverulent masses, feeling firm to the fingers, and crack- ling when pressed, or rubbed; viewed by a pocket lens it appears to consist of glistening particles, which are shown by a microscope to be convex, irregular, ovoid or truncated gran- ules, most of them, according to Mr. Jackson, being *0010 of an inch in length, and *0008 of an inch in breadth; mixed with others varying from about double to only half that size.^ In its action with boiling water, and its gene- ral properties, it resembles the other starches; than which, however, it is reckoned more nourishing, and is also freer from any peculiar taste and flavour; and thus agrees better with the delicate stomachs of invalids and infants than the ordinary farinas. Comp. Similar to that of the other starches. Pur. A large portion of the arrow-root of the shops consists either wholly or in part of the fecula or farina of potatoes, or is more or less mixed with sago-meal or rice-meal. Po- tato starch is known in commerce as ‘ faeina ’ or ‘ Beitish aeeow-eoot,’ or simply ‘ arrow- rootwhereas, genuine arrow-root is always 1 P. C. Benzon, “Buchner's Eepert. f. d. Bhcmnucie," 1823. 2 Ure’s “Diet, of Arts M., ^ M.," 4tli ed., i. 80. ® Pereira, “ Elem. of Mat. Med. ^ Therap.,” 3rd ed., ii. 1113. described as ‘Bermuda* ‘St. Vincent,* ‘ St. Kitts,* or, at least, as ‘ West-Indian arrow- root.* The substitution of the inferior farinas for genuine arrow-root is not only fraudulent on account of their inferior value, but is reprehensible in a hygienic point of view ; as some of them are offensive to a delicate stomach, and exert of themselves, and still more when carelessly manufactured, a laxative action on the bowels; whereas the effect of true arrow-root is that of a slight and sooth- ing tonic. 'Pests. Genuine arrow-root is—1. Of a dull, dead-white colour, free from glistening par- ticles :—2. Tasteless and odourless, and ]>re- serves these properties when mixed with boil- ing water:—3. Triturated with twice its weight of concentrated hydrochloric acid, it yields an opaque paste, and no odour is evolved; if a transparent paste is immediately formed, or an earthy odour or one resem- bling that of beans or rushes is perceived, it contains either wheat or potato starch (Schar- ling) :—4. Boiled with water and sulphuric acid similar residts occur (Lainpadius):—5. Triturated with double its weight of a mix- ture of equal parts of aquafortis and water, it does not become gelatinous and viscid in less than 15 minutes. The other starches (except rice-starch,) thus treated, rapidly form a stiff and tenacious jelly. 5^ of adulteration may be thus detected. (Scharling) :—6. Under the microscope it exhibits glistening irregular ovoid particles, smooth on the surface and free . from streaks and furrows. Rice-meal acts , like arrow-root with aquafortis, but its sharp, spicular, horn-like particles, are instantly de- tected by the microscope. Uses, As an agreeable, non-irritable article of diet for invalids and children, in the form of cakes, biscuits or puddings, or boiled with milk or water and flavoured with sugar, spices, lemon-juice, or wine, at pleasure. For young children a little caraway or cinnamon water is to be preferred. It is especially use- ful in irritation or debility of the stomach, bowels, or urinary organs, and in all cases in which a demulcent or emollient is indicated. It must not, however, be employed to the entire exclusion of other food, as, being desti- tute of the nitrogenous elements of nutrition, it is incapable alone of supporting life. Arrow- root jelly is prepared by first rubbing the powder up with a very small quantity of cold water, and then gradually adding the remain- der boiling, stirring well all the time. Beef- tea, veal-broth, or milk, may be used instead of water. Some persons boil it for a few minutes. This jelly, fiavoured with a little genuine port wine and 'nutmeg, is almost a specific in cases of simple diarrhoea arising from habit or debility. Obs. Arrow-root is imported in tins, barrels, and boxes, from all the West-India Islands and from Calcutta and Sierra Leone. The best quality was, until recently, solely obtained