913 MILK. I I i I dent to apply the test to the unprepared sus- pected milk. It has frequently been stated that chalk, 1 i)laster of Paris, gum, gelatine, sugar, flour, i mucilage of hemp-seed, the brains of animals, I and other similar substances, are often added I to London milk; but there is no reason to j suppose there is any truth in these assertions, i as some of these articles are too costly to be I used, and the presence of others would so alter I the flavour or appearance of the milk, or j would so soon exhibit themselves by subsidence, j as to lead to their detection. ; Pres. Milk may be preserved in stout bottles, well corked, and wired down, by heating them, in this state, to the boiling-point, in a water bath, by which means the oxygen of the small j quantity of enclosed air becomes absorbed. It must be afterwards stored in a cool situa- I tion. By this method, which is also exten- I sively adopted for the preservation of green I gooseberries, green peas, &c., milk will retain its properties unaltered for years. A few j grains of carbonate of magnesia, or, still better, of bicarbonate of potassa or soda, may be ad- I vantageously dissolved in each bottle before i corking it. Under Bethel’s patent the milk or cream is scalded, and, when cold, strongly charged with carbonic acid gas, by means of a soda-water machine, and the corks are wired down in the I usual manner. The bottles should be kept 1 inverted, in a cool place. j An excellent method of preventing milk from turning sour, or coagulating, is to add to every pint of it about 10 or 12 gr. of carbon- I ate or bicarbonate of soda. Milk thus pre- I pared may be kept for eight or ten days in temperate weather. This addition is harmless, anti, indeed, is advantageous to dyspeptic pa- tients. According to D’Arcet, of the bicarbonate is sufficient for the purpose. I An excess of alkali used in this manner may I be detected by the milk turning turmeric I paper brown, even after it has been kept some hours, and by the ash obtained by evaporating 1 a little to dryness and then heating it to I dull redness, effervescing with an acid. (See I below.) I *** Milk should not be kept in lead or zinc j vessels, as it speedily dissolves a portion of I these metals, and becomes poisonous. I Concluding remarks. The principal difference j between cows’ milk and human milk con- I sists in the former containing more casein and ; less sugar of milk than the latter. The re- I markable indisposition to coagulate is another ! character which distinguishes human milk i from cows’ milk. Prof. Falkland, who has j practically investigated the subject, has pre- I pared a nutritive fluid for infants from cows’ ,milk, closely resembling that of the healthy : adult woman. His process is, however, unne- I cessarily complicated, and, therefore, unsuited I to those who would have to employ it in the nursery. To remove this objection, we have adopted the following formula:—Sugar of milk, 2 oz.; hot water, ^ pint; dissolve, and, when the liquor has become quite cold, add it to fresh cows’ milk, f pint, and stir them toge- ther. This quantity, prepared morning and evening, will constitute the proper food for an infant of from 5 to 8 months old. More may be allowed it, if it ‘craves’ it; but there must be no ‘ cramming.’ At first it will be advisable to remove a little of the cream from the milk before adding to it the saccharine solution; but after a few days this will be found to be unnecessary, and, indeed, inju- rious. One very important particular to be attended to, is the employment of ptire cow’s milk, obtained from a healthy grass-fed ani- mal only. With this precaution, and the use of a good FEEDING-BOTTLE, the infant will thrive nearly as well as on the breast of any human female, excepting its mother’s. (See beloio.) Asses’ milk closely resembles human milk in colour, smell, and consistence, but it con- tains rather less cream. (See below.) Ewes’ milk closely resembles cows’ milk, than which, however, it is slightly richer in cream. Goats’ milk, for the most part, resembles cows’ milk, but its consistence is much greater, and it contains much more solid matter. (See below.) Makes’ milk, in consistence, is between that of cows’ and human milk. Its cream is not converted into butter by agitation. See Butter, Cheese, Lactic Acid, &c. Al'rnond Milk. See Emulsion and Mix- ture. Arrow-root Milk. Prep. From arrow-root, 1 table-spoonful, first wetted and stirred with a little cold water, afterwards adding, gradu- ally, of boiling water, i pint; and, lastly, of boiling milk, ^ pint; with sugar, spice, wine, &c., to palate. Very nutritious, and excellent in chronic diarrhoea. Some persons employ all milk. Choc'olate Milk. Prep. Dissolve chocolate (scraped), 1 oz., in boiling new milk, 1 pint. Nutritious; but apt to offend delicate sto- machs. Cof'fee ‘Milk. Prep. 1. Coffee, 1 oz.; boiling^ water, i pint; infuse for 10 or 15 mi- nutes in a warm situation, and add the strained liquid to boiling milk, f pint. 2. Coffee, 1 oz.; tie it loosely in a piece of muslin, and simmer it for 15 minutes in milk, 1 pint. Both the above have been recom- mended for persons of spare habits, and for those disposed to affections of the lungs, more especially for the asthmatic. Facti"tious Milk. Sgn. Artificial milk. Of the numerous compounds which have been proposed as substitutes for natural milks, the following are examples :— 1. (Factitious asses’ milk; Lac asini- NUM FACTITIUM, LaC A. ARTIFICIALE, L.) —a. Cows' milk, 1 quart; ground rice, 1 oz. ; 58