OPIAMMON—OPIUM. 1010 The symptoms are, in part, those common to local inflammation. The eye or eyelids become more or less bloodshot, swollen, and tender, and a sensation resembling that in- duced by the presence of particles of sand or some gritty substance, accompanied by much heat and a pricking pain, is almost constantly experienced. The secretion becomes yellow- ish and glutinous, and during the night fre- quently glues, as it were, the lids together. Sometimes only one eye is attacked, but after 2 or 3 days the disease extends to the other. The treatment of mild cases of conjunctival ophthalmia is extremely simple. In general, it may be relieved by fomentations of Avarm water or decoction of poppy-heads and the use of aperient medicines, to which leeches and cupping may often be added with advan- tage. In severer cases, general depletion and blisters to the nape of the neck must be had recourse to. When the inflammation has sub- sided, mild astringent and cooling eye-waters and ointments will be found useful; but all applications of this kind should be used with caution. The prEULENT ophthalmia of new- born infants, and that which often follows the small-pox, measles, and fevers, generally yields to the use of mild astringent eye-waters and ointments, and to the application, at bedtime, of a drop of wine of opium diluted with 5 or 6 drops of water. A very weaJc solution of sul- phate of zinc, or the ointment of nitric oxide of mercury, will be found a good application in the latter cases. In every variety the eye should be kept clean by careful ablution with warm milk-and-water. A solution of chloride of barium (3 to 5 gr. to distilled water 1 fl. oz.) is an excellent application in chronic oph- thalmia arising from scrofula or syphilis. When the disease is symptomatic of other aflections, as gout, rheumatism, hysteria, &c., the treatment should have reference to the primary disease. Intense pain (ophthalmo- dynia), having this origin, is sometimes felt in the eye when there is no inflammation. Occasionally ophthalmia assumes a malig- nant form, producing the most intense suf- fering, ending in destruction of the eyeball and total blindness. In this state it is highly contagious. Of this description was the dis- ease Avhich fell with such severity on the French and English armies in their expedi- tions to Egypt. OPIAM'MON. A nearly white, insoluble powder, formed by evaporating the ammonia salt of opianic acid to dryness. The stronger acids reconvert it into opianic acid and am- monia. OPIANTC ACID. A crystalline substance, resulting from the oxidation of naecotine, ^ discovered by Wohler and Liebig. i Prep. Narcotine is dissolved in dilute sul- < phuric acid, in considerable excess; binoxide .< of manganese, in very fine powder, is next s added, also in excess, and the mixtm-e is boiled i i until carbonic acid ceases to be evolved; th 5 liquid is then filtered, and on cooling forms I crystalline mass of opianic acid; this is drainei ■ in a filter, pressed, washed with cold water, au<| I frequently re-crystallized from a saturated so 1 lution in boiling water. T Prop., ^'‘c. Colourless, prismatic, reticulatei - crystals; very sparingly soluble in cold Avater - freely soluble in hot Avater and in alcohol . soluble in alkaline lyes, but insoluble in then L after fusion, unless when concentrated. I 3 forms crystallizable salts, called opianate? including an ether (opianic ethee). 1 O'TIATES. Syn. Opiata, L. Preparation , containing opium. The Avord is often applie i in a general sense to anodynes and soporifics 3 In French pharmacy, the name is common] 3 used synonymously with confections, as in th ■ following preparations :— I Anti-dtsenteeic opiate—Quarin. Pnr\ I fled opium, 4 gr.; ipecacuanha, ^ dr.; tormen . tilla, 1 dr.; syrup of whortleberries and con 3 serve of red roses, of each, 6 dr. Bose. . L teaspoonful every hour, i Anti-htsteeical opiate—Trousseau an • Reveil. Powdered indigo, 1 oz.; luhite honei, s 3 oz. Bose. 1 table-spoonful daily, gradual! I increased until the whole is taken in a da\ . In hysteria, epilepsy, and nervous aflections c an epileptic character. i Balsamic opiate—Trousseau and Revei Oleo-resin (balsam) of copaiba, 1 oz.; cuheh ■ (in poAvder), 3 oz.; potassio-tartrate of iror. 2 J dr.; syrup of quince, q. s. In gleet. Bos' 3 boluses the size of a nut, thrice daily. Chaecoal opiate—Ratier. Willow char coal (recent), 1 oz.; prepared chalk, 1 fb. powdered white sugar, 2 oz.; rose water, q. i to form an electuary. In diarrhoea and in cipient cholera, in dysentery Avith fetid stool and in gastralgia, flatulence, &c. By substi tuting calcined magnesia for chalk, it become an excellent remedy for habitual constipation Cubes opiate—Deyeaux. Powdered cuheh 4 dr.; powdered camphor, 1 dr.; mix, divide it into 18 powders. Bose. One, 3 or times daily, in gleet, painful and scalding mic turition, &c. 0"PIUM. Syn. Opium (Ph. L. E. & D.), I “ Turkey opium (opium Tuecicum) “ tli juice emitted from the incised unripe frui (capsules) of Papaver somuiferum, Linn.,” o ivhite poppy, “indurated by exposure to th air.” (Ph. L.) Var.—1. Egyptian; in roundish flattene< lumps; inferior to Turkish opium.—2. Eng LiSH; often equal to the best Smyrna.—2 Feench; resembles the last.—4. Geeman similar to English opium.—5. Indian ;—fl Benares opium, in large balls; — b. Malw^ opium, in roundish flattened cakes, of 9 or 1' oz. in Aveight each;—c. Patna opium, in ball or square cakes; inferior to Turkey opiuin.- .6. Levant ; same as Smyrna opium.—7. Pek SIAN; in rolls or sticks, 6 x | inch; inferior resembles hepatic aloes in appearance. — 8