636 FERRICYANIDE—FIBRIN. pint, is heated so strongly that the bottom, and a couple of inches above it, appear faintly but distinctly red. The weight of the mix- ture (TrommsdorfF’s) should be about 300 gr., and should be “ thrown at once upon the side of the crucible.” FERRICY'AH'IDE. Syn. Feeeidcyanide, Feeeidcyanuret. a compound of ferri- cyanogen with a base. The feeeicyanide OF POTASSIUM, or ‘ EED PEUSSIATE OF POTASH,’ as it is often improperly called, is a well- known example. The ferricyanides of ammo- nium and the alkalies and alkaline EAETHS are soluble; those of most of the METALS, insoluble. See below. FERRIC YAH'OGEN. Syn. Feeeidcyano- GEN, Feeeic-cyanogen. The peculiar salt- radical which exists in the so-called ‘ red prussiate of potash.’ It is isomeric with fee- EOCYANOGEN, from which it differs in capacity of saturation (being tribasic), and in the be- haviour of its compounds with solutions of the metals. It has not been isolated. See Potassium (Ferricyanide). FERROCY'ANIDE. Syn. Feeeocyanueet, Peussiate; Feeeocyanidum, Feeeocyanu- EETUM, L. A compound of ferrocyanogen with a base. The principal substance of this kind is the feeeocyanide of potassium or ‘ YELLOW PEUSSIATE OF POTASH,’ as it is often called. See the respective bases—Ammonium, Potassium, Sodium, &c., and below. FERROCYAN'OGEN. Syn. Feeeocyano- GENIUM, L. A bibasic salt-radical, composed of the elements of 3 equivalents of cyanogen and 1 equivalent of the metal ieon. It has never been isolated. It unites with the various bases to form feeeocyanides. See Cyanogen, Hydeofeeeocyanic Acid, Ieon, &c. FERRU'GO. [L.] Rust of iron. See Ieon (Sesquioxide). FE'VER. Syn. Febeis, Pyeexia, L. In pathology, a condition characterised by loss of appetite, thirst, languor, debility, unwilling- ness to move, accelerated pulse, increased heat of surface, and general disturbance of all the functions. A large number of diseases in which all or some of these symptoms appear are called FETEES. They have been divided by nosolo- gists into intermittent (inteemittentes), re- mittent (eemittentes), and continued fevers (continuje). The first of these are generally known as agues ; the second differ from agues in there being one or more marked exacerba- tions and remissions of the symptoms, every 24 hours, but without any entire intermission; and the last have been divided into inflamma- tory fever (synocha), putrid or low fever (ty- phus), and the common continued or mixed fever (synochus), which commences with symptoms allied to those of ordinary inflam- matory fever, but terminates with those of typhus. The terms‘hectic‘nervous’ ‘bilious’ ‘inflammatory’ &c., have also been applied to particular varieties fever ; and names indi- cative of certain cutaneous appearances con- nected with them have been given to others; as ‘scarlet’ fever, ‘yellow’ fever, &c. The usual symptoms of incipient fever {fe- brile symptoms) are—chilliness (varying from a simple shiver to a sensation of cold water running down the back), a quick pulse, hot and dry skin or flushing, languor, often evinced by yawning, depression of spirits, alternate fits of shivering and heat, hurried and uneasy respiration, flying pains in various parts of the body, as the head, back, and loins; loss of appetite, nausea or vomiting, dry mouth, furred tongue, costiveness, urine small in qu intity, and usually of a deep colour, &c. When any of these symptoms appear, their progress may often be arrested by the timely exhibition of an emetic, followed by a saline purgative, and diaphoretics; at the same time promoting the action of these remedies by a low diet and drinking copiously of diluents, and carefully avoiding animal food, spirits, fermented liquors, or anything at all stimulant. Whenever symptoms of fever be- come established, ^nedical advice should be sought and implicitly followed. In parts where it cannot be obtained the treatment recommended under Ague, Inflammation, Remittent Fevee, and Typhus, may be fol- lowed with advantage. In visiting or attending persons labouring under fevers, it is advisable to avoid imme- diate contact with them or their clothing, or standing near them in such a position as to inhale their breath, or the effluvia evolved (in some cases) by their bodies; and w'hen re- maining for some time in the apartment, it is preferable to sit or stand near the fireplace, or between the window and door, as such parts of the room are generally better ventilated than the other portions. The greatest puri- - fier of the atmosphere of a sick chamber is a > good flre, because it occasions a continual current of the impure air up the chimney, and a corresponding influx of fresh air from with- out. Chloride of lime, or chloride of zinc, or their solutions, are also good purifiers. The flrst, however, should not be used in quantity, as the evolved chlorine might in that case impede the respiration of the patient. It is also advisable to avoid entering the room of a patient labouring under contagious diseases of any class when the stomach is empty, or the spirits depressed; and it has been recom- mended to clear the mouth of the saliva im- mediately after quitting the chamber. See Ablution, &c. FTBRIN. Syn. Fibeine. An azotized sub- stance, forming the coagulable portion of fresh-drawn blood, and the principal consti- tuent of the muscular or fleshy parts of ani- mals. It is eminently nutritious, and capable of yielding in the animal body albumen,™ caseine, and the tissues derived from them. (Liebig.) Prej). Fibrine is easily obtained in a nearly