FLY-FOILS. I 659 I powder, and triturated well together. Used 1 as BLACK FLUX, i 9. (White flux.) See above. I 10. (Fluxes for enamels.) See Enamels. ^ 11. (Various.) Borax, tartar, nitre, sal am- I moniac, common salt, limestone, glass, fluor spar, and several other substances, are used as I fluxes in metallurgy. \ Obs. On the large scale, crude tartar is em- [ ployed in the preparation of fluxes; on the I small scale, commercial cream of tartar or bi- tartrate of potassa. j FLY. The common house-fly {Musca do- j mestica) causes considerable annoyance to ; the person in hot weather, as well as damage ! to handsome furniture, especially to picture I frames, gilding, and the like. The best I way to exterminate them is to expose on I a plate one or other of the mixtures given under Fly Poison {below). The blow-fly 1 {Musca vomitoria), and other insects, may be kept from attacking meat by dusting it over with black pepper, powdered ginger, or any other spice, or by skewering a piece of paper 1 to it on which a drop or two of creasote has been poured. The spices may be readily washed off with water before dressing the meat. It is a fact not generally known, that flies I ivill net pass through a netting made of fine silk,' thread, or wire, even though the meshes may be an inch apart, unless there is a window I or light behind it. This affords us a ready 1 means of excluding these insects from all our i apartments which have windows only on one side of them, without keeping the latter closed. It is merely necessary to have an ornamental netting stretched across the open- ! ing, when, although flies may abound on the j outside, none will venture into the rooms so i protected. If, however, there is a window on • the other side of the room, they will fly I through the netting immediately. See below. I Fly Papers. Those papers which, a few years ago, Avere sold about the streets of London by harsh.voiced criers of “Catch ’em alive-o!” and which might be seen in many shop-windows co- vered with dead and dying flies, were prepared by rubbing factitious bird-lime' over sheets of I paper. It would be difficult to conceive a | 1 more cruel or more offensive mode of catching ! ! flics than that of gluing their living bodies to ; an adhesive surface. A preferable kind of fly- i paper is that called ‘ papier moure,’ which j contains a large quantity of arsenic in its sub- 1 stance. This paper is kept wet when in use, 1 and the flies, by sipping the moisture, are ' poisoned. j Fly Poison. Prep. 1. A strong solution of \^white arsenic (say 1 dr. to the jym^), sweetened I with moist sugar, treacle, or honey. Sold under I the name of ‘ Fly avater.’ I 2. Treacle, honey, or moist sugar, mixed I Avith about f'.^tli their Aveight of King's yellow or orpimeiit. 1 Seepage 313. Obs. Both the above are dangerous prepara~ tions, and should never be employed Avhere there are children. 3. (RedAvood.) Quassia chips (small), i oz.; water, 1 pint; boil 10 minutes, strain, and add of treacle, 4 oz. “Flies Avill drink this with avidity, and are soon destroyed by it.” 4. Black pepper, 1 teaspoonful; brown sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls; cream, 4 teaspoonfuls. See below. Fly Powder. The dark gray-coloured pow- der (so-called ‘sub-oxide’) obtained by the free exposure of metallic arsenic to the air. Mixed AA'ith sweets, it is used to kill flies. Fly Water. See Fly Poison {above). FOILS. These are thin leaves of polished metal, placed under precious stones and pastes, to heighten their brilliancy, or to vary the effect. Foils Avere formerly made of copper, tinned copper, tin, and silvered copper, but the last is the one Avholly used for superior work at the present day. Foils are of two descriptions :—white, for diamonds and mock diamonds, and—coloured, for the coloured gems. The latter are pre- pared by AUirnishing or lacquering the former. By their judicious use the colour of a stone may often be modified and improved. Thus, by placing a yellow foil under 2l green stone that turns too much on the blue, or a red one under a stone turning too much on the crimson, the hues Avill be brightened and enriched in pro- portion. Prep. 1. (Crystal, Diamond, or White FOIL.)—a. This is made by coating a plate of copper Avith a layer of silver, and then rolling it into sheets in the flatting mill. The foil is then highly polished, or covered with ci’ystal varnish. b. The inside of the socket in which the stone or paste is to be set is covered with tin foil, by means of a little stiff gum or size; Avhen dry, the surface is polished and the socket heated, and whilst it is warm, filled Avith quicksilver ; after repose for two or three minutes, the fluid metal is poured out, and the stone gently fitted in its place; lastly, the work is Avell-fitted round the stone, to prevent the alloy being shaken out. j c. The bottom of the stone is coated with a \fllm of real silver, by precipitating it from a solution of the nitrate in spirit of ammonia, by means of the oils of cassia and cloves.^ This method vastly Increases the brilliancy both of real and factitious gems, and the Avork is very permanent. 2. (Coloured foils.) The following for- mulee produce beautiful coloured effects, Avhen judiciously employed:— a. (Amethyst.) Lake and Prussian blue, finely ground in pale drying oil. b. (Blue.) Prussian blue (preferably Turn- bull's), ground Avith pale, quick-drying oil. Used to deepen the colour of sapphires. c. (Eagle marine.) Verdigi'is tempered in 2 See SlLYKRING.