798 IRON. POTASSIO-TAETRAS (Ph. L.), FeERUM TAE- TAEiZATUM (Ph. E.), Ferri tartarum (Ph. D,), Ferri et potass^ taetras (Ph. U. S), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Sulphate of iron, 4 oz., is dissolved in water, 1 pint, previously mixed with sulphuric acid, i 11. oz.; heat is applied to the solution, and nitric acid, 1 11. oz., gra- dually added; the solution is boiled to the consistence of a syrup, and then diluted with water, 4 gall, (less the pint already used); liquor of ammonia, 10 11. oz., is next added, and the precipitate washed, and set aside for 24 hours; at the end of this time, the water being decanted, the still moist precipitate is added, gradually, to a mixture of bitartrate of potassa, 2 oz., and water, ^ pint, heated to 140^ Fahr.; after a time the undissolved oxide is separated by a linen cloth, and the clear solution either gently evaporated to dryness or treated in the same manner as ammonio- citrate of iron (lastly, preserve it in well- stopped bottles). The formulae of the Ph. E., D., & U. S., are essentially the same. The Ph. D. orders a heat not beyond 150^ Fahr. to be applied to the mixture of the oxide and bitartrate, with occasional stirring for 6 hours, and the desiccation to be conducted at the same temperature. Obs. This preparation is a double salt of potassa and sesquioxide of iron; it is there- fore wrongly called ‘ tartrate of iron,’ as is commonly heard. It is “totally soluble in water; the solution is neutral to litmus and turmeric, unaffected by ferrocyanide of potas- sium, and not precipitated by acids nor al- kalies, nor acted on by the magnet.” (Ph. L. 1836.) “ Heated with potassa, 100 gr. throws down about 34 gr. of sesquioxide of iron.” (Ph. L.) “Entirely soluble in cold water; taste, feebly chalybeate.” (Ph. E.) That of commerce has generally a feebly inky taste, a slight alkaline reaction, is slightly deliquescent, dissolves in 4 parts of water, and is nearly insoluble in alcohol. Potassio-tartrate of iron is an excellent fer- ruginous tonic. Bose. 10 to 20 gr., made into a bolus with aromatics, or dissolved in water or other convenient menstruum. Quevenne’s Iron. Syn. Reduced iron ; Ferrum eeductum, Ferri pulvis (Ph. D.), L.; Fee reduit, Fr. Prep. 1. (Ph. D.) Into a gun-barrel, or similar tube of iron, introduce as much sesquioxide of iron as will occupy about 10 inches, confining it to the middle portion of the barrel by plugs of asbestos; next heat the part containing the oxide to redness, and pass through it a stream of hy- drogen gas (previously dried by passing it through oil of vitriol, and afterwards through a tube containing caustic potassa) until it is no longer absorbed or decomposed; then remove the fire, a slow current of the gas being still continued, and when cold, collect the metallic contents of the barrel, and pre- serve it in an accurately stoppered bottle. 2. (Mr. Arthur Morgan.) Ferrocyanide of potassium, 8 oz., after exposure in an oven until all its water is expelled, is reduced to , very fine powder, and mixed, by trituration with precipitated sesquioxide of iron, 4 oz., and dried carbonate of potassa, 3 oz.; the mix- ture is next introduced, a little at a time, into a red-hot crucible, and the heat is continued until all effervescence has ceased; when the whole is again cold, it is powdered, and thoroughly washed with recently boiled dis- j tilled water, by agitation with the liquid in a | large bottle, after which it is dried as rapidly as possible, out of contact with the air, and preserved as before. Prop., 8fc. A fine, dark, gray-coloured powder; soft to the touch; soluble in dilute hydrochloric and sulphuric acid, with the copious evolution of hydrogen gas, which, on being passed through lime water or baryta water, does not occasion a sensible precipitate; the resulting solution is colourless when very dilute, and pale green when concentrated; a solution of ferrocyanide of potassium added to it gives a nearly white (not a blue) precipi- tate, whilst a solution of ferridcyanide of po- tassium gives a deep blue one; sulphocyanide of potassium under the like conditions should not develop a ruby-red colour. In its most perfect condition it is pyrophoric. Bose. 5 to 10 gr.; as a mild but certain chalybeate, easily dissolved by the juices of the stomach. See Levigated Iron. Quin'io-cit'rate of Iron. Syn. Citrate of QUININE AND IRON; FeRRI QUINIO-CITRAS, L. Prep. 1. As ammonio-citrate of iron, but using quinine, recently precipitated, instead of i ammonia, to neutralize the acid. 2. (Beral.) Citrate of iron, 4< \ citrate | of quinine, 1 part; distilled water, q. s.; dis- , j solve, gently evaporate, and proceed as directed : | for ammonio-citrate of iron. Bose. 2 to 6 dr.; f < in cases where the use of both iron and qui- j \ nine is indicated. So'dio-cit'rate of Iron. Syn. Ferri sodio- I ciTRAS, Ferri et sod^e citeas, L. Prep. ‘ From citric acid, carbonate of soda, and iron or the hydrated oxide, as ammonio-citrate or POTASSIO-CITRATE OF IRON. Sul'phates of Iron. The protosulphate and ' the sesquisulphate are used in medicine and i the arts, and must therefore be noticed I here:— 1. Protosul'phate of Iron. Syn. Sulphate I OF IRON, Copperas^, Green c.J, Green i vitriolJ, Salt of Steel*, Shoemaker’s blackJ ; Ferri sulphas (Ph. L. E. & D.), Sal maetis, Sal chaltbis, Vitriolum FERRI, V. MARTis, V. YiRiDE, L. The Crude 'J sulphate of iron or green vitriol of commerce • (ferri sulphas venalis, Ph. L.) is prepared \ by exposing heaps of moistened iron pyrites or native bisulphuret of iron to the air for several months, either in its unprepared state jj or after it has been roasted. When decom- i< position is sufficiently advanced, the newly i formed salt is dissolved out with water, and i J