878 MALT LIQUORS. barrel of 36 gallons, becomes In the language of the brewer, 87 lb. per barrel, which, how- ever, merely means that the wort from a quarter of malt, if evaporated down to the bulk of a barrel or 36 gallons, would weigh 87 lb. more than a barrel of water.” (Ure.) Assay. 1. A small quantity of the sample being ground in a coffee or pepper mill, 100 gr. are accurately weighed, and di’ied hy ex- posure for about 1 hour at the temperature of boiling water. The loss in weight, in grains, indicates the quantity of moisttjee j)er cent. Tins, in good malt, should not exceed 6^ gr. 2. A second 100 gr. is taken and’ stirred up with about ^ pint of cold water; the mixture is then exposed to the heat of boiling water for about 40 minutes; after Avhich it is thrown on a weighed filter, and the undissolved por- tion washed with a little hot water; the undls- solved portion, with the filter, is then dried at 212° Fa,hr., and weighed. The loss in weight, less the per-centage of moisture last found, taken in grains, gives the per-centage of solu- ble MATTER. This should not be less than 66 gr. The same result will be arrived at by evaporating the filtered liquid and ‘ washings ^ to dryness, and weighing the residuum. 3. A third 100 gr. is taken and mashed with about i pint of water at 160° Fahr., for 2 or 3 hours; the liquid is then drained off, the residue gently squeezed, and the strained liquid, evaporated to dryness, as before, and weighed: This gives the per-centage of SACCHARINE MATTER, and should not be less than about 71 gr., taking the above average of malt as the standard of calculation. Uses, ^-c. Malt is chiefly employed in the arts of brewing and distillation. Both brown and PATENT MALT are merely used to colour the worts produced from pale malt. 1 lb. of patent malt, mashed with 79 lb. of pale malt, imparts to the liquor the colour and flavour of ‘porter.’ The paler varieties of malt contain the largest quantity of saccharine matter. After the malt has been kiln-dried, the acrospire and roots may be removed by means of a sieve. Before malt is mashed for beer, it is ground in a mill. It has also been proposed to employ malt, instead of raw'-grain, for fattening domestic animals, and as food for their young and those in a sickly state. Infusion of malt (sweet wort, malt tea) is laxative, and has been recommended as an antiscorbutic and tonic. It has been given with great advantage in scurvy; but for this purpose good, w^ell-hopped, mild beer is equally serviceable and more agreeable. See Brewing-, Distillation, Fermentation, &c. MALT LIQ'UOES. The qualities of ale, beer, and porter, as beverages, the detection of their adulteration, and the methods of pre- paring them, are described under their respec- tive names and in the article upon ‘ brewing’; the present article wdll, therefore, be confined to a short notice of the cellar management, and the diseases of malt liquors generally. Age. The appearance and flavour to wdiich this term is applied can, of course, be only given to the liquor by properly ‘ storing ’ it for a sufficient time. Fraudulent brew’ers and publicans, however, frequently add a little oil of vitriol (diluted with w’ater) to new beer, by which it assumes the character of an inferior liquor of the class 1 or 2 years old. Copperas, alum, sliced lemons, Seville oranges, and cu- cumbers, are also frequently employed by brewers for the same purpose. Bottling. Clean, svveet, and dry bottles, and sound and good corks, should be had in readiness. The liquor to be bottled should be perfectly clear ; and if it he not so, it must be submitted to the operation of ‘fining.^ When quite fine, and in good condition, the bung of the cask should be left out all night, and the next day the liquor should be put into bottles, which, after remaining 12 or 24 hours, covered with sheets of paper to keep out flies and dust, must be securely corked down. Porter is generally wdred over. The wire for this pur- liose should he ‘ annealed,’ and not resilient. If the liquor is intended for exportation to a hot climate, the bottles should remain filled for 2 or 3 days, or more, before corking them. The stock of bottled liquor should be stored in a cool situation; and a small quantity, to meet present demands only, should be set on their sides in a w^armer place ’to ripen. Oc- tober beer should not be bottled before Mid- summer, nor March beer till Christmas. Cloudiness. Add a handful of hops boiled in a gallon of the beer, and in a fortnight fine it dowm. Fining. See Clarieication and Brewing. Flatness. When the liquor is new, or has still much undecomposed sugar left in it, a sufficient remedy is to remove it into a w'arraer situation for a few days. When this is not the case, 2 or 3 pounds of moist sugar (foots) may be ‘rummaged’ into each hogshead. In this way a second fermentation is set up, and in a few’ days the liquor becomes brisk, and carries a head. This is the plan commonly adopted hy publicans. On the small scale, the addition of a few grains of carbonate of soda, or of prepared chalk, to each glass, is commonly made for the same purpose; but in this case the liquor must be drunk within a few minutes, else it becomes again flat and insipid. This may be adopted for home-brew^ed beer which has become sour and vapid. Foxing or bucking. The spontaneous souring of ivorts or beer during their fer- mentation or ripening, to wdiich this name is applied, may generally be remedied by adding to the liquor some fresh hops (scalded), along wdth some black mustard seed (bruised). Some persons use a little made mustard, or a solution of alum or of catechu, or a little diluted sul- phuric acid; and in a w’^eek or 10 days after- w’ards further add some bean-flour, treacle, or moist sugar. Frosted beer is recovered by change of