FLASH—FLATULENCE. 652 juanufacture of warm clothing. But the chief advantage of wool, as an article of under- clothing, depends less upon its actual power of conducting heat than its peculiar texture. Flannel acts as a gentle stimulus on the skin, and exercises the most beneficial action, by keep- ing the pores clean, and in a state most favor- able to perspiration. This action is a species of friction similar in character, although infe- rior in degree, to that of the common flesh- Irush or horse-hair glove, so long employed as a skin stimulant. Flannel has also the advan- tage of absorbing the perspiration as scon as emitted, and allowing its watery portion to pass off into the atmosphere almost as soon as formed, hut this is not the case with cotton and linen fabrics. The different effects of flannel and linen are particularly susceptible during brisk exercise. When the body is co- vered with the former, though perspiration he necessarily increased, the perspired matter freely passes off through the flannel, and the skin remains dry and warm. If the same exercise he taken in linen shirts, perspiration, as in the former case, is indeed also increased, hut the perspired matter, instead of being dis- persed into the atmosphere, remains upon the linen, and not only clogs the pores of the skin, hut gives a disagreeable sensation. From this property of flannel, persons who wear it next the skin seldom catch cold from changes of temperature, even though perspiring profusely; hut in similar cases, when linen or calico shirts are worn, chilli- ness immediately comes on, followed by sniffling, sneezing, and cough, and all the other symptoms of severe catarrh. The common objections raised against the use of flannel are founded on vulgar prej udices, ignorance, obstinacy, or bravado, and are un- deserving of the notice of sensible people. In a fickle and moist climate like that of England, every person should wear a robe of flannel next the skin, or at all events a waistcoat of flannel reaching below the loins; and this should not be discarded as soon as the cold weather has passed, but its use should be continued all the year round; for in reality, flannel is, if possible, even more required in summer than in winter, because persons perspire more freely in hot than in cold weather, and are conse- quently more susceptible of cold, while at that period of the year their clothing is less capable of protecting them from the effects of sudden changes of temperature and draughts of cold air, moisture, &c. Females, children, persons of delicate constitutions, and all others who from their habits of body or life perspire freely, or are much exposed, should wear flannel. In washing flannels, it is recommended that they should only he put into warm water, by w'hich method their colour will be pre- served, and they will be prevented from shrinking. FLASH. Frep. From burnt-sugar colouring. 1 gall.; fluid extract of capsicum or essence of Cayenne, f pint, or enough to give a strong fiery taste. Used to colour spirits, and to give them a false strength. It is made by the brewers' druggists, and labelled ‘ isinglass and BURNT SUGAR.’ FLASKS. The late lamented and ingenious Mr. Fownes suggested the employment of Florence oil-flasks as cheap substitutes for re- torts, receivers, digesters, and some other vessels used for chemical purposes. His plan was to cut the neck smoothly round with a hot iron, and softening it in the flame of a good argand gas-lamp, to turn over the edge so as to form a lip, or border. The neck will then bear a tight-fitting cork without split- ting. FLAT'ULENCE. Syn. Flatulency, Wind. In pathology, a morbid collection of gas in the stomach and bowels. Its most common cause is indigestion. When the natural fluids of the stomach are secreted in a healthy state, they exercise an antiseptic and digestive action on the food, by which it is speedily reduced to a magma that is little liable to spontaneous change whilst in the body; but when the reverse is the case, fermentation soon com- mences, and the stomach and associated vis- cera become distended with gas, and all the well-known symptoms of flatulency are deve- loped in rapid succession. The quantity of gas thus accumulated in the ‘ primse vim’ is often enormous. An ordinary apple during fermentation yields about 600 times its hulk of gas, and many vegetables yield much more. (Dr. Hales.) It is, therefore, not at all sur- prising that so much inconvenience should be felt when the food, instead of being digested and assimilated, runs into the state of active fermentation. The treatment of flatulency consists mainly in the selection of proper articles of food. Oleraceous vegetables, peas, beans, tinder-dressed potatoes, and indigestible fruits, should be espe- cially avoided, as well as the use of large quan- tities of weaJc or tvarm liquids. The diet should consist principally of animal food, care- fully but not over-cooked, with a sufficient quantity of good mealy potatoes (mashed, not whole), and good wheaten meal-bread, mode- rately seasoned with common salt and spices. The most suitable beverages are toast-and- water, and a little good brandy largely diluted with water. The healthy tone of the stomach may be re-established by the proper use of tonics, bitters, and mild aperients. To relieve the flt of flatulency, carminatives and aromatics, as black })epper, mustard, pep- permint, ginger, cinnamon, lavender, and most spices, may be had recourse to. A glass of peppermint cordial, or of brandy strongly fla- voured with peppermint or ginger, is a popular and efficient remedy. A few drops (15 to 30) of ether, with a little tincture of capsicum or spirit of sal volatile, seldom fail to give relief. See Dyspepsia.