ACETIC ACID. 16 of glass; and the retort should not he much more than half-filled. The operation must now he very carefully conducted, and discon- tinued before hardy the whole of the acid has distilled over; as the last portion is apt to in- jure the flavour and colour of the rest. The first portions which come over are very weak, and should he kept separate, until the sp. gr. reaches to about 1*072, when the receiver should he changed, and the product collected in separate portions, as noticed below. Obs. Good binacetate of copper yields, by careful management, at a temperature of 400° to 560° Fahr., fully one-half its weight of a greenish coloured acid, of the sp. gr. of about 1*061, containing above 50g of hydrated acetic acid, or 43g of anhydrous acid. 20 lb. of the ordinary acetate yields 9^ lb. of this rough acid, leaving a residuum of about 6.^ lb. of metallic copper mixed with a little charcoal, in the retort; the remainder (nearly foths of the acid in the acetate,) being decomposed by the heat, and lost. This 9^ lb. of crude acid yields by rectification, and dividing the products, \lb. of acid of the sp. gr. 1*023 j 3 lb. of the sp. gr. 1*042; and 6 lb. of the sp. gr. 1*065; ex- clusive of a little acetone which comes over with it. In the first distillation, the strongest acid is found in the third receiver, and the weakest in the first. The acid obtained in this way is always accompanied with a little fragrant pyro-acetic sjnrit; which ren- ders it preferable for aromatic vinegar and perfumery. It dissolves camphor, resins, and essential oils with facility. This is one of the oldest methods of obtaining glacial acetic acid, and the product is still preferred for some pur- poses. It is the EADICAL VINEGAE of the alche- mists, and it is that which is preferred by the perfumers. Well-dried acetate of lead, or of iron, as well as several other acetates, may be sub- stituted for acetate of copper in the above process; but are less economical and conve- nient. In all cases, great care must he taken to avoid over-firing, as thereby the quantity obtained is lessened, and the quality injured. The residuum of the distillation is pyrophoric, and frequently inflames spontaneously, on ex- posure to the air. Due caution must be there- fore observed regarding it. We find that the proportional quantities of acetic acid which the several acetates yield by dry distillation are— Acetate of silver . . . . . . 100* copper . . . . . . 79*2 99 nickel . . . . . . 32*3 iron .... . . . 25*5 99 lead .... ... 3* zinc .... ... 2*2 99 manganese . . ... 1*2 Ratio. In all the above processes the acetic acid exists ready formed in the acetate, and is merely set free by the superior affinity of the sulphuric, or other acid, (either free, or in the state of sulphate,) for the base; and being then disengaged from its previous combination, by its volatility, passes over into the receiver on the application of heat; and there, being again cooled, is condensed in the liquid form. The residuum is a sulphate, bisulphate, or chloride of the base, according to the acid or acid-salt, and the proportion of it, employed to effect the decomposition. In the distillation of ver- <| digris, &c., per se, heat may he said to perform ( a similar part to that of the stronger acids in ( the other processes. IV. From Wood, by dry distillation. See l Pyroligneous Acid. The preparation of the i ‘ purified acid,^ by converting it into an ace- * tate, and subsequent distillation with a strong | acid, is noticed above, and under the acetates j OE SODA, lime, and potassa. V. From Alcohol. (Alcohol vinegar. Gee- - MAN ACETIC ACID.) In a bdl-glass, or an { oblong glass case, perforated shelves are ar- < ranged, a few inches apart, one above another, ^ f on which are placed a number of small flat dishes of porcelain, earthenware, or wood. These dishes are filled with spirit of wine or dilute alcohol; and over each is suspended a watch-glass or capsule containing a portion of platinum-black; the whole being arranged so that the platinum-black and the surface of the alcohol are not more than to 2 inches apart. Strips of porous paper are next so hung in the case, that their bottom edges are im- mersed in tlie spirit, to promote evaporation ; and lastly, the apparatus, loosely covered, is set in a light place at a temperature of from 70° to 90° Fahr. — the sunshine, when conve- nient. In a short time the temperature of the platinum rises, and the formation of acetic acid begins; and the condensed vapour trickles down the sides of the glass and collects at the bottom of the case, whence it is removed once