1128 rOULTRY—POWDER. PLASM; Cataplasme de Peaeiee, Pr. Prep. Take of balm of Mecca, 6 dr.; rectified spirit, 16 oz.; dissolve; next, separately, take red cinchona hark, sarsaparilla, and sage, of each, 1 oz.; saffron, ^ oz.; rectified spirit, 32 oz.; digest for 48 hours, and filter; mix the two and liquors, add to them twice their weight of lime water. In gout; 2 fl. oz. are sprinkled on the surface of a hot linseed-meal poultice sufficiently large to surround the affected part. It is said that the Emperor Napoleon gave JB2500 for this receipt. Sim'ple Poultice. Syn. Cataplasma sim- plex, L. Prep. (Ph. D. 1826.) Powder for a cataplasm and boiling water, of each, q. s. to form a poultice, the surface of which is to he smeared over with olive oil. Emollient. Bread poultice and linseed-meal, poultice are now generally called by this name. See Poweee (Poultice). Poultice of Soap. Byn. Cataplasma sa- PONIS, L. Prep. From white soap (scraped or sliced), 1 oz.; boiling water, dissolve, and add crum of bread, q. s. As an apiilication to scalds and burns. • Poultice of Vin'egar. Sxjn. Cataplasma ACETI, L. Prep. From crum of bread soaked in vinegar. Applied cold in bruises, extrava- sations, &c., especially black eyes. Verjuice is often employed in the same way. Poultice of Yeast. Syn. Cataplasma pee- MEXTi (Ph. L.), C. E. CEEEVisiiE, L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Beer yeast and water at 100^ Fahr., of each, 5 fl. oz.; mix, stir in four, 1 lb., and place it near the fire until it rises. In gangrenous or foul ulcers; to correct the fetor of the discharge, and to hasten the sloughing. POTJL'TRY. Domestic birds, which are propagated and fed for the table, and for their eggs, feathers, Ac. The poultry of this country are the common EOMESTIC EOWL, the TEEKEY, the DECK, and the GOOSE; to which some writers add the GEiNEA FOWL and the peacock. Of these, the first is the most generally useful. Though a native of India, it accompanies man through almost every gradation of civilization and cli- mate, and flourishes almost everywhere, when properly secured from the inclemency of the weather, and allowed an ample supply of fresh air, with proper food. For the production of abundance of eggs, it must, however, be well fed and warmly lodged. The hen-roosts and poultry-houses should be well protected from the weather, and their temperature should be duly maintained by proximity to the stables, cow-houses, or dwelling-house, and, in cold w'eather, by the employment, when necessary, of artificial heat. The food should also con- tain an ample supply of nitrogenous matter, for without this how can it be expected that hens can produce abundance of eggs, which are peculiarly rich in nitrogen. The ‘greaves’ of the tallow-chandlers, and such-like sub- stances, are hence excellent additions to the ordinary food of poultry. But it is not suf^ dent merely to supply poultry wfith abundan(, of food and warmth; it is equally necessar that they should have ample space for exerci and recreation. This space “should alwa^j contain living plants of various kinds, ar some gravelly or sandy soil; because worn snails, as well as, occasionally, grass and herbag form a part of the food of poultry; and sai or gravel is swallo^ved by them for the pu pose of promoting digestion.^J Hence, i| healthy poultry can ever be reared in towr however much the natural food may be in tated by the supply of animal matters, herbag and sand.’^ (Loudon.) POUNCE. Powdered gum sandarac general passes under this name. It is used to prepa parchment for writing on, and to prevent i from spreading upon paper after erasur Powdered cuttle-fish bone is occasionally ei ployed in the same way. Both are applied the surface by means of a cylindrical roll list, called a ‘rubber’ Packers rub the si face of porous and greasy wood, as the hea of boxes, cases, casks, &c., with whiting powdered resin, to make them bear the ii The coloured powders used by pattern drawe for sprinkling over pricked papers, are a called ‘ pounce.’ For liquid pounce, see Mae IXG Ink {page 780). POWDER. Sijn. Pelvis, L. Powders s divided by pharmaceutical writers into t classes—simp>le and compound. The first i prepared by simple pulverization; the secoi by the admixture of two or more simple po ders. For use, the appropriate doses are se) rately w^eighed, and placed in separate pap£ They are usually exhibited in a little hon sugar, or milk, either taken from a spoon ’ made into an electuary or bolus, and swallov in the semi-solid form. Metallic and ott heavy powders are best taken in the kit state. Very active substances should be, all cases, mixed with some inert powder, that of starch, gum, liquorice, or marsh-malli at the time of ‘ dispensing’ them. “ This form of preparing medicines is simplest, and perhaps the least objectional but it is not applicable to all the articles the Materia Medica. Those remedies wk are very unpleasant to the taste; those wk deliquesce rapidly when exposed to the air, are very volatile; and those which require be given in very large doses, or which are diffused readily in water, cannot, with priety, be administered in the form of pow( Some substances cannot be reduced to pow ’ unless they be very much dried, and the k - necessary for that purpose alters their proj ; ties.” Nor can we “be surprised that a gi/ alteration should be effected in a short t- - by the action of the air on so great an ext - sion of surface as takes place in the operat i usually adojited for reducing drugs to a li powder.” (A. T. Thomson.) In this country, compound poicders app ’