CODEINE—COFPEE. 462 secreting organs, is well known to every expe- rienced surgeon. The difficulty, however, of bringing it into a form adapted for adminis- tration, has hitherto prevented phosphorus being extensively employed as a therapeutic agent. This obstacle is removed by the em- ployment of cod-liver oil. Nature has here provided a simple remedy, which the ingenuity of man has failed to produce artificially. This opinion is borne out by the facts, that cod- liver oil cures those forms of scrofula and other diseases which do not yield to iodine, and that those varieties of the oil are the most active which contain the most free phosphorus. We, therefore, think it reasonable to conclude, that the efficacy of cod-liver oil depends on the joint action of the minute quantities of iodine, phosphorus, and the elements of the bile, which it contains, and not on any one separately; and that no substance, at present known, can be used as a substitute for it.” (Cooley.) CODEINE (in). Syn. CodeTa. An alka- loid discovered by Eobiquet associated with morphine. Prep, Dissolve commercial hydrochlorate of morphine in water, and precipitate the mor- phine with ammonia. Codeine is left in solu- tion, and is obtained in octahedral crystals by spontaneous evaporation. It may be further purified by solution in ether. By the addition of a little water to the ethereal solution, and spontaneous evaporation, it may be obtained quite pure and in a crystalline state. Obs. The morphine may be recovered by digesting the precipitate in weak liquor of potassa. Prop., 8fc. Freely soluble in alcohol and ether ; soluble in 80 parts of cold and 17 parts of boiling water. Its solution in the latter, by slow evaporation, yields large, transparent octahedra. With the acids it forms crystal- lizable salts. These possess the singular pro- perty of producing a general and violent itch- ing of the surface of the body when adminis- tered internally. The same symptoms fre- quently follow the exhibition of opium and muriate of morphine, and are referred to the presence of codeine. The commercial mu- riate of morphine frequently contains 3§^to 4§ of codeine. Tests. It is distinguished from morphine by not becoming blue on the addition of sesqui- chloride of iron, nor turning red with nitric acid; and by not being precipitated by am- monia, when dissolved in hydrochloric acid and mixed with a large quantity of water. Unlike morphine, it is insoluble in weak liquor of potassa, and is soluble in ether. The salts of codeine are known by tincture of galls throwing down a copious precipitate from their solutions; this does not occur with the salts of morphia. It is distinguished from meconine by its aqueous solution showing an alkaline reaction with test paper. COFTEE. The seeds or berries of the Coffea arabica (Lmn.) or coffee plant; a shrub of the natural order Cinchonacece, sub-order Coffece, indigenous in the low mountainous districts of ^ Arabia Felix, and largely cultivated in various ’ ' other parts of the world. About 40 millions of r pounds of coffee are annually consumed in this i country, and the consumption for the whole l< world has been estimated at about 600 millions of pounds. The seeds are roasted and ground, and used in the form of a decoction or in- fusion. The term coffee is applied to the prepared beverage as well as to the seeds. The valuable properties of coffee are mainly due to the presence of the alkaloid c a,eeeine. Prep., The finest kind of coffee is that called MOCHA, from Aden, but that in common use is principally supplied from the British plantations in the West Indies. The selection being made, the berries are carefully roasted in revolving cylinders by a gradually applied heat, until the aroma is well developed, and the toughness destroyed. Too much heat is avoided, as the volatile and aromatic proper- ties of the coffee, and, consequently, the flavour, are thereby injured; whilst, on the other hand, if the berries are roasted too little, they produce a beverage with a raw, green taste, very liable to indiice sickness and vomiting. When properly roasted, coffee has a lively chocolate-brown colour, and should not have lost more than 18g of its weight by the process. If the loss exceeds 20§, the flavour suffers in proportion. The roasted coffee should be placed in a very dry situation, and excluded from the air as soon as possible. It loses flavour by keeping, and also powerfully absorbs moisture from the atmosphere by reason of its hygrometric power. Pur. The ground coffee sold by the grocers is almost universally adulterated. The prin- cipal substances used for this purpose are i roasted chicory and roasted beans and corn. || This fraud may readily be detected as fol- lows :— 1. A spoonful of pure coffee placed gently on the surface of a glass of cold water will float for some time, and scarcely colour the liquid; if it contains chicory, it will rapidly i absorb the water, and sinking to the bottom j of the glass, communicate a deep reddish- ) brown tint as it falls. Another method of applying this test is by expertly shaking a spoonful of the suspected coflee with a wine- glassful of cold water, and then placing the glass upon the table. If it is pure, it will rise to the surface, and scarcely colour the liquid, but if chicory is present, it will sink to the bottom, and the water will be tinged of a deep-red, as before. 2. The brown colour of decoction or infusion of roasted coffee becomes greenish when treated with a per-salt of iron; and a brownish- green, flocculent precipitate is formed. The colour of chicory is only deepened, but not otherwise altered, and no precipitate is formed, under the same treatment. A mixture of | chicory and coffee retains a brownish-yellow