1392 APPENDIX. Tincttjee op Squill (Tinctura Scilljs). From squill (bruised), 2^ oz. j by the new method. Tincture of Stramonium (Tinctura Stramonii). Prom stramonium seeds (bruised), 2i oz.; by the new method. Tincture op Tolu (Tinctura Tolutana). Balsam of Tolu, 2| oz.; rectified spirit, 1 pint; macerate 6 hours, or until the balsam is dis- solved, then filter, and make up to 1 pint. Tincture op Valerian. 1. (Tinctura Valerians.) From valerian (bruised), 2^ oz. ; by the new method. 2. (Ammoniated; Tinctura Valerian.® ammoniata.) From valerian (bruised), 2^ oz. ; aromatic spirit of ammonia, 1 pint; macerate 7 days in a well-closed vessel, then filter, and make up 1 pint with more aromatic spirit of ammonia. Tincture of Yellow Cinchona (Tinc- tura CiNCHON.® plav®). From yellow-cin- chona bark (in coarse powder), 4 oz. ; by the new method. Tobacco (Leaf)—Tabacum. “The dried leaves; cultivated in America.^^ (See page 1287.). Tragacanth—Tragacantha. Seepage 720. Treacle—Theriaca. “The uncrystallized residue of .the refining of sugar Turmeric. Named in Appendix (see page 1291) with the following articles:— Turmeric Paper. Unsized paper, steeped in tincture of tumeric, and dried by exposure to the air. Tumeric Tincture. Prepared by macerat- ing bruised tumeric, 1 oz., with proof spirit, 6 fl. oz., for 7 days, and straining. Valerian—Valeriana. “The root of plants indigenous to and also cultivated in Britain, collected in autumn and dried ; that from wild plants growing on dry soil being preferred.” (See page 1297.) Veratria—Veratria. Described in Mat. Med. as “ an alkaloid obtained from Cevadilla ; not quite pure.” The process given agrees with that of the Ph. E. (1—page 1308), but the precipitate of impure veratria is subjected to further treatment before being dried for use. Supposing that the quantity of, cevadilla (‘ sabadilla ’) operated upon was 2 lb., the moist precipitate is diffused through 12 fl. oz. of distilled water, and hydrochloric acid gradu- ally added, with stirring, until the fluid has a feeble acid reaction; this is then digested with purified animal charcoal, 60 gr., at a gentle heat, for 20 minutes, filtered, and allowed to cool; solution of ammonia is next added, in slight excess; when the precipitate has completely subsided, the supernatant liquid is poured ofti, and the precipitate, having been collected on a filter, is washed with cold distilled water till the washings cease to be affected by nitrate of silver acidulated with nitric acid; lastly, the precipitate is dried, as directed in the Ph. E. formula. Vinegar—Acetum. Described in Mat. Med. as “ impure dilute acetic acid, prepared from French wines by the acetous fermentation.” Volumetric Solutions. See Test Solu- tions FOR Volumetric Analysis {above). Water—Aqua. Described in Mat. Med. as “Natural water, the purest that can be ob- tained, cleared, if necessary, by filtration.” Distilled Water—Aqua destillata. Water (free from taste and odour), 10 gall.; distil from a copper still, connected with a block-tin worm; reject the first ^ gall., and preserve the next 8 gall. Waters. The following formulae for the officinal waters (aquae) should be compared with those given on pages 1325-7. Camphor Water (Aqua Camphor® ; Mis- TURA Camphor®, Ph. L. & D.). Camphor (broken into pieces), | oz., is to be enclosed in a muslin bag, and this is to be attached to the stopper of a jar containing distilled water, 1 gall. Invert the jar; allow it to stand at least two days, and pour off the solution when required. See Camphor Mixture {page 917). Caraway Water (Aqua Carui). Cara- way (bruised), 20 oz.; water, 2 gall.; distil 1 gallon. Cinnamon Water (Aqua Cinnamomi). From bruised cinnamon ; as the last. Dill Water (Aqua Anethi). From bruised dill; as the last. Elder-plower Water (Aqua Sambuci). Fresh elder flowers (separated from the stalks), 10 lb. ; water, 2 gall.; distil 1 gallon. Fennel Water (Aqua Fceniculi). From sweet fennel fruit (bruised); as caraway WATER. Laurel Water (Aqua Lauro-cerasi). Chop the fresh leaves of common laurel, 1 lb., and crush them in a mortar, and macerate them in distilled water, 2^ pints, for 24 hours. Distil 1 pint, using a chloride-of-zinc bath and a Liebig’s condenser. Shake the product, filter through paper, and preserve in a stop- pered bottle. Orange-flower Water (Aqua Aurantii). In Mat. Med. “The distilled water of the flowers, prepared mostly in France.” No process given. Peppermint Water (Aqua Menth® Pi- perit®). English oil of peppermint, 1| fl. dr,; water, 1| gall.; distil 1 gallon. Pimento Water (Aqua Piment®). Pi- mento (bruised), 14 oz.; water, 2 gall.; distil 1 gallon. Spearmint Water (Aqua Menth® vi- RiDis). English oil of spearmint, 1| fl. dr.; water, 1^ gall.; distil 1 gallon. . Rose Water (Aqu® Ros®). Fresh petals of the hundred-leaved rose, 10 lb.; water, 2 gall.; distil 1 gallon. Wax. 1. (White; Cera alba.) “Yellow wax bleached by exposure to moisture, air, and light; British and imported.”