POTASSA. 1119 j'lALATE OF FOTASSA, SALT OF SOEEEL, ESSEN- I lAL SALT OF LE3IOIJS; POTASSJS BINOXALAS, ilAL ACETOSELLA2, SaL LIMONIS, L. Prep. Py atnrating- a solulion of oxalic acid, 1 part, with arlonate of potassa, adding to the mixture a imilar solution of 1 part of oxalic acid, un- eutralized, and evaporating for crystals. It lay also he obtained from the expressed juice f wood- or sheep’s sorrel, by clarifying it with ms or milk, and evaporating, &c., as before. L'olourless rhombic crystals, soluble in 40 parts f cold and 6 parts of boiling water, yielding very sour solution. ! 3. Quadrox'alate of Potassa. Syn. Potassa: UODEOXALAS, L. Prep. neutralizing 1 part f oxalic acid with carbonate of potassa, adding 3 the solution 3 parts more of oxalic acid, jvaporating, and crystallizing. Or, by dis- dving the hinoxalale in dilute, hydrochloric cid, and evaporating, &c., as before. Resem- les the last; but is less soluble, and more in- 2iisely sour, and forms modified oetahedral rystals. This salt, like the binoxalate, is ccasionally sold under the names of ‘ sal CETOSELLiE,’ ‘ SALT OF SOEEEL,^ and ‘ESSEN- ial salt of lemons.’ Both are used to smove ink and iron stains from linen, to leach the straw used for making bonnets, and, ccasionally, in medicine, as a refrigerant. Obs. When pure, each of the above salts, hen strongly heated, emits white acid fumes, ithout being charred, and yields nothing but irbonate of potassa, under the form of a rayish-white mass. If it contains cream f tartar, it is rapidly charred, and emits the eculiar odour of burning bread. All the xalates of potash are poisonous. See Oxalic CID. Perchlo'Tate of Potassa. Syn. Potassa: EECiiLOEAS, L. Prepared by i)rojecting well pied and finely powdered chlorate of potassa, i small portions at a time, into icarm nitric '^id. The salt is separated from the ‘ nitrate’ y crystallization. Prus'siate of Potassa. See Potassium (Fer- cyanide and Ferrocyanide). Sil'icate of Potassa. Syn. Potassa: silicas, . See Soluble Glass {jmye 699). Sul'phates of Potassa. AVith sulphuric acid, Dtassa forms the following salts:— 1. Neutral Sulphate of Potassa. Syn. Po- ASS.E SULPHAS (Ph. L. E. & D,), Kali vi- ItOLATUMf, Sal POLTCHEESTUSf, L. This dt is now placed in the Materia Medica of le Ph. L. That of commerce is a secondary I’oduct of several chemical and manufacturing pocesses. Thus, the residuum of the dis- llation of nitric acid from nitre is dissolved in ater, the solution neutralized with carbonate ‘ potash (with quicklime—Ph. D.; with arble—Ph. E.), and, after defecation, eva- 3rated until a pellicle forms j it is then rained, or decanted, and set aside to crys- illize. Or, the residuum is simply ignited, to vpel excess of acid, and then dissolved, and ■ystallized, as before. Prop., 8fc. Anhydrous, heavy, ciuartz-like crystals ,* permanent in the air; soluble in 12 p^arts of Avater at 60'^ and in 5 parts at 212^ Fahr.; insoluble in alcohol; extremely nau- seous, and bitter-tasted. “ It crepitates on the applieation of heat; fuses at a red heat, but loses nothing in weight. 100 gr., dis- solved in distilled water, on the addition of chloride of barium and hydrochloric acid, fur- nish 132 gr. of sulphate of baryta, dried at a red heat.” (Ph. L.) Uses, Sfc. It is cathartic, and is reputed deobstruent. Dose. 10 gr. to 1 dr.; in jaun- dice, dyspepsia, and (in proportionate doses) in the visceral obstructions of children. It is usually given in powder, combined with rhu- barb or jalap, and some aromatic. Obs. The original sal polycheest, or Glasee’s polycheest salt, is the potassa: sulphas cum sulphuee of the Ph. E. It is prepared as follows:—Nitrate of qjotassa and sulphur, equal parts; mix them thoroughly, and throw the mixture, in small successive portions, into a red-hot crucible; w’hen the deflagration is over, and the salt has cooled, reduce it to powder, and preserve it from the air. (Ph. E.) Glaser orders the deflagrated mass to be kept in a state of fusion for some time, then to be cooled, dissolved in water, and the filtered solution evaporated for erystals. It appears to be a mixture of sulphate, bi- sulphate, and sulphite of potassa. The uses and doses are similar to those of sulphate of potash. 2. BisuPphate of Potassa. Syn. Supee- SULPHATE of POTASH; PoTASS® BTSULPHAS (Ph. E. & D.), P. SUPEE-SULPHAS, Sal EXIXUMf, S. POLYCHEESTUS ACIDULATUMf, L. Prep. 1. (Anhydrous.) Neutral sulphate of potassa and oil of vitriol, equal parts; hot water, q. s. (not more) to dissolve; anhydeous BISULPHATE OF POTASSA erystallizes out, in long delicate needles, as the solution cools. If these are left for several days in the mother- liquor, they are redissolved, and crystals of the ordinary hydeated bisulphate are de- posited. 2. (Hydrated.)—«. (Ph. L. 1836.) Salt left in distilling nitric acid, 2 1b.; boiling water, 3 quarts; dissolve; add of sulphuric acid, 1 lb.; concentrate by evaporation, and set the liquid aside, so that crystals may form. b. (Ph. D.) Sidphate of potash (in powder), 3 oz.; sulphuric acid, 1 fi. oz.; mix them in a porcelain capsule, and expose it to a heat capable of liquefying its contents, until acid vapours cease to be evolved; powder the residuum, and preserve it in a well-stopped bottle. Prop., ^ e. Sour and slightly bitter-tasted rhombic prisms; soluble in about 2 parts of cold and 1 part of boiling Avater, the solution exhibiting a strongly acid reaction. It is much employed, in lieu of tartaric acid, for the production of carbonic acid, in ‘ gazo- genes,’ &c.; also to adulterate cream of tartar