OILS (IN PERFUMEEY). 969 j green elder oil^ 2 lb.; and agitate until mixed, j The rectified spirit is now generally omitted, ! the camphor being dissolved in the green oil i by aid of heat before adding the other ingre- I dients. Stimulant. Used by farriers. ( SuTphurated Oil. Syn. Balsam of sul- IPHUE; Oleum sulphueatum, Balsamum [SULPHUEIS, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1746.) \ Flowers of sulphur, 1 part; olive oil, 4 parts; j boil together in a vessel lightly covered, until They assume the consistence of a thick balsam. 2. (Ph. L. 1824.) Olive oil, 16 fl. oz.; heat it in a sand bath, and gradually add of washed sulphur, 2 oz.; stirring until they combine. i Prop., Balsam of sulphur is a daik, ireddish-brown, viscid fluid, having an extremely [disagreeable and penetrating odour, and a strong, nauseous taste. The local action of ibalsam of sulphur is that of an acrid and irri- 'tant; its remote effects, those of a stimulant, expectorant, and diaphoretic. Externally, it is occasionally used as an application to foul ulcers; and was formerly commonly employed internally, in chronic pulmonary affections, in doses of 20 to 50 drops. It is now seldom ^iven internally, except in veterinary practice. Three Oils. Syn. Oleum de teibus (Van Mons), L. Oils of brick, lavender, and tur- oentine, equal parts. As a stimulant liniment. Oil of Vit'riol. Sulphuric acid. Ward’s Oils. Syn. Waed’s white oils. From powdered camphor, rape oil, oil of tur- )entine, rectified spirit, and liquor of potassa, ;qual parts, agitated together for some time, md again before use. Beef brine was formerly ised instead of liquor of potassa. Watchmaker’s Oil. Prepared by placing a ‘lean strip or coil of lead in a small white- Ijlass bottle filled with pure almond or olive oil, iind exposing it to the sun’s rays at a window jbr some time, till a curdy matter ceases to be jleposited, and the oil has become quite limpid [ind colourless. Used for fine work ; does not pecome thick by age. Wedell’s Oil. Syn. Bezoae oil; Oleum JEZOAEDICUM, L. From nut oil, i pint; cam- \ihor, \ oz.; dissolve by a gentle heat, and, ivhen cold, add of essence of bergamot, 1 dr., nd let it stand over a little alkanet root, until ■ufficiently coloured. White Oils. Syn. White egg-oils. Prep. L. Yolks of eggs, 4 in number; oil of tur- pentine, ^ pint; mix, add of liquor of ammonia, p fl. oz.; oil of origanum, ^ oz.; soaper’s lye, jt pint; water, f pint; agitate well, and strain ihrough a coarse hair sieve, j 2. Rape oil, f pint; liquor of ammonia and \nl of turpentine, of each, 3 oz.; agitate until hey form a milk. 3. (Redwood.) Whites and yolks of 2 eggs; >il of turpentine, IJ oz.; triturate together, jidd of Goulard's extract, ^ oz., mix, next add I'f distilled vinegar, pint, and, lastly, of lectified spirit, 1^ fi. oz. Stimulant and deter- j;ent. Used by farriers. j Worm Oil (Canine). Syn. Oleum veemi- FUGUM CANINUM. Prep. From oil of fur. pcntine and castor oil, equal parts; tinged yellow with a little palm oil or annotta. Dose. For a middle-sized dog, \ oz., repeated in 2 or 3 hours if it does not operate. OILS (in Perfumery). Syn. Scented oils ; Olea fixa odoeata, L. The oils which usually form the basis of these articles are those of almonds, ben, or olives; but others are occasionally used. The methods adopted for their preparation vary with the nature of the substances whose fragrance it is intended to convey to the oil. The Continental per- fumers employ three different processes for this purpose, which they technically distinguish by terms indicative of their nature. These are as under :— 1. A sufficient quantity of the essential oil of the plant, or of the concentrated essence of the substance, if it does not furnish an oil, is added to the fixed oil which it is desired to perfume, until the latter becomes agreeably fragrant; the whole is then allowed to repose for a few days, and, if any sediment falls (which should not be the case when the ingre- dients are pure), the clear portion is decanted into another bottle. When alcoholic essences are thus employed, the fixed oil should be gently warmed, and the admixture made in a strong bottle, so as to permit of it being corked and well agitated with safety; and in this case the agitation should be prolonged until the whole has become quite cold. In this way, all the ordinary aeomatized and pee- FUMED OILS of the English druggists and per- fumers, as those of beegamotte, cassia, CLOVES, LAVENDEE, LEMON, MILLE-FLEUES, NEEOLI, NUTMEG, OEANGES, EOSES, &C., are made; but those of a few of the more delicate flowers, and of certain other substances, can only be prepared of the ‘first quality^ by one or other of the processes described below. In general, 1 to dr. of the pure essential oils, or 3 to 4 fi. dr. of the alcoholic essences, are found sufficient to render 1 pint of oil agreeably fragrant. | dr. of pure attar of roses is, however, enough for this purpose, owing to the very powerful character of its perfume; but even a less quantity than this is commonly employed, on account of its costli- ness, the deficiency being made up by a mix- ture of tbe oils of rhodium, rosemary, and bergamotte. Most of the oils of this class are intended for hair cosmetics. 2. (By INFUSION.) Dry substances, after being reduced to powder, or sliced very small —-fiowers or petals, after being carefully selected, and picked from the stems and other scentless portions—and soft or unctuous mat- ters, as ambergris, civet, or musk, after being rubbed to a paste with a little oil, either with or without the addition of about twice their weight of clean sand or powdered glass, to facilitate the reduction, are digested in the fixed^ oil for about 1 hour, at a gentle heat obtained by means of a water bath, continual I