1306 VEGETATION (METALLIC). for the preparation of extracts and the pre- served juices, noticed below. It appears that the juice of young plants just coming into -flower yield only | the amount of extract which may be obtained from the same quantity of juice expressed from the matured plant, or when the flowers are fully blown, and the strength of the product is also inferior ; the case appears to be best met by selecting the plants when more than half the flowers are fully blown. The leaves alone should be pre- ferably employed, and should be exclusively of the second year’s growth, when the plants are biennials. (Squire.) The homoeopathists com- monly employ the whole flowering herb. The INSPISSATED VEG-ETABLE JUICES (SUC- cus SPISSATIS) are now included among the extracts. The principal simple vegetable juices of com- merce are :— BuCKTHOEN JUICE (SUCCUS EHAMNI—Ph. L.), from the fruit of Rhamnus caiharticus, or buckthorn berries. CiTEON JUICE (SUCCUS ciTEi), chiefly im- ported from Italy in large casks. Lemon juice (succus limonum—Ph. L.), from lemons that spoil before they can be sold j also imported. Mulbeeey juice (succus moei—Ph. L.), from the fruit of the mulberry. Oeange juice (succus AUEANTii), ob- tained from the same source as that of lemons. CONCENTEATED OEANGE JUICE (SUCCUS SPISSATUS AUEANTII vel aueantioeum) and CONCENTEATED LEMON JUICE (SUCCUS SPIS- SATUS limonum) are prepared by evaporating the fresh juices of oranges and lemons, either alone or mixed with sugar, and are employed as substitutes for the fruit, where the latter cannot be obtained. 2. (Alcoholized vegetable juices, Pee- SEEVED V. J., TiNCTUEES OP EECENT PLANTS ; SUCCI ALCOHOLATI, L.; AlCOOLATUEES, Fr.) Prep. a. The juice, obtained by powerful pressure, in the manner noticed above, is al- io wedto remain for 24hours in a cold place, when the clear portion is decanted from the feculous matter which has subsided, and is then agitated with one half its volume of rectified spirit (56 o. p.) ; after another 24 hours the clear portion is again decanted, and, if necessary, filtered through bibulous paper or linen. In this way are now generally prepared the pre- served juices of ACONITE, BELLADONNA, COL- CHICUM (corms), hemlock, henbane, pox- glove, ELATEEIUM, LACTUCA VIEOSA, TAEAXA- CUM, &c., sold in this country. b. (P. Cod.) To t\ie fresh leaves, bruised in a marble mortar, is added an equal weight of rectified spirit, and, after maceration for 15 days, the whole is pressed, and the resulting tincture filtered. In this manner are pre- pared tinctures of the fresh leaves of aconite (tinctura aconiti cum foliis recentibus), bella- donna, POXGLOVE, HEMLOCK, HENBANE, STEONG-SCENTED LETTUCE {Lactuca virosa), steamonium), teailing poison oak {Rhus toxicodendron), mugwoet {Artemisa vulgaris), COLCHICUM (corms), SQUIETING CUCUMBEE, WHITE POPPY, TAEAXACUM, &C., &C., of the Paris Codex. Obs. These tinctures are much more power- ful, and more certain in their operation, than those prepared from the dried plants. The commencing dose is from 2 to 5 drops, the effects of which should be carefully watched. products of the first of the above formulae keep as well as the ordinary tinctures, and there is less waste of spirit than with the second. That of the P. Cod. is, however, pre- ferred by M. Soubeiran, as affording more uniform products j an opinion which is ques- tionable. Beral orders equal weights of juice and spirit; Mr. Squire recommends | part, Messrs. Bentley & Davenport i part (both by volume), and M. Gieseke only^ part (by weight), of spirit, to 1 part of the expressed juice. The homoeopathists generally go with M. Beral. “ Our own experience, which has been very considerable, and extends over upwards of 16 years, leads us to prefer the proportions given in formula a, which are similar to those of Mr. Squire. If less spirit be employed, the product is apt to suflFer rapid deterioration when kept in a warm shop or surgery.” (Cooley). 3. (EtHEEIZED vegetable JUICES; Succi ^THEEIZATI,—L.; EtHEEOLATUEES, SuCS ETHEEES, Fr.) For these we are indebted to M. Bouchardat. They are prepared as fol- lows :—Ether is gradually added to the depu- rated freshly expressed juice, until, after active agitation, a thin layer of it rises to the surface on the mixture being allowed to repose for a minute or two; the whole is then set aside for 24 hours, when the supernatant ether is ex- pertly removed by means of a pipette or syringe, and the juice is filtered; lastly, the decanted ether is returned to the filtrate, and the etherized juice is at once put into well- stoppered bottles. For use, one of the bottles is reversed, and the dose taken from the lower part, so that the ether remains behind. We find, in practice, that decantation, carefully conducted, may be substituted for filtration; thus not only rendering the process less costly, but ensuring a more uniform pro- duct. The etherized juices are said to retain their active properties for an indefinite period. The method has been successfully applied to the juices of ACONITE, ANEMONE, BLACK HELLE- BOEE, and HEMLOCK, and is probably appli- cable to many others; but, we think, not to the juices of all the narcotic plants, as has nopTi VEGETA'IION (MetaUic). This name has been fancifully applied to the following :— Lead teee ; Aeboe Satueni. Take of sugar of lead, 1 oz.; distilled water, 1^ pint; acetic acid, a few drops; dissolve, place the