123 A LUM-EARTH—A LUMS. i I is moistened and triturated, or heated, with ’ caustic potassa or quicklime; and by the resi- duum of its exposure to a white heat being I pure alumina. See Alum (ante). Basic Alum. A variety of alum found j native at Tolfa. On calcination and subse- quent lixiviation, it yields ordinary alum. A I like substance falls as a white powder, when I newly precipitated alumina is boiled in a solu- 1 tion of alum. I Baume’s Alum. Alum-white. See White ; Pigments. I Burnt Alum. Syn. Dkied Alum ; A^i'men us'TUM, A. exsicca'tum (Ph. L. & E.), A. 1 sicca'tum (Ph. D.), L.; Alun Sec, Fr.; Geb- I EANNTER ALAUN, Ger.; ALUME CALCINATO, , Ttal. Alum deprived of its water of crystalli- I sation by heat. I Prep. (Ph. L. 1851). Take of alum, 1 lb.; I let it liquefy over a fire in a shallow earthen I (or iron—Ph. E.) vessel, (a porcelain capsule— i Ph. D.,) and increase the heat until all ebulli- tion has ceased. In the Ph. E. and D. the I residuum is ordered to be powdered. Exces- I sive heat should be carefully avoided, lest a I portion of the acid be driven off as well as the I water.—Prod. 53 to 55^. [ Prop., <^c. Similar to those of common alum, but it is rather more astringent, and is less I soluble. When moistened, or placed in contact { with water, it resumes its water of crystalli- j sation with evolution of heat.—Dose. 10 to 20 I gr.; in colic (especially painters’ colic), hae- I moptysis, &c. It is chiefly used as an escha- i rotic, to destroy ‘ proud flesh,’ &c. ' Chrome Alum. See Alums (in chemistry). I'ron Alum (-iirn). Syn. Sulphate op pee- ox'iDE OP lEONandpoTAs'sA; Alu'menFee'ei- cum, Sul'phas pee'ei et potas'sae, Fer'ei PEEOx'iDi potassio-sul'phas, &c.,L. A double salt in which iron takes the place of the alu- I mina of common alum. I Prep. Take of peroxide of iron, 9 lb.; oil of \ vitriol, 14 lb.; dissolve, dilute the mixture with water, q. s., and add of sulphate of potassa, ! 10 lb.; evaporate, and crystallise. 1 Prop., S(c. Crystals, beautiful octohedrons j of a pinkish or pale violet-colour. It is 1 strongly recommended, by Dr. Tyler Smith, as a chalybeate tonic, and has been used by him, I at St. Mary’s Hospital, with marked success. I It has also been used as a mordant, in dyeing I black.—Dose. ^ gr. to 5 gr. Obs. A corresponding ammonia or soda iron- [ alum may be formed by substituting an equiv. I of the sulphates of these alkalies for the j sulphate of potassa in the above salt. It I would be well to designate these salts as the i AMMONIO-SULPHATE OP PERO^qEDE OF IRON, i POTASSIO-SULPHATE OP P. OF I., &C. (in lieu of the rather indefinite name ‘ iron alum,’ com- monly given them), as originally suggested by Mr. Davenport, and since recommended by i Drs. G. O. Rees and A. S. Taylor. ! Ro'man Alum. Syn. Red alum*. Roach a., ' Roche a., Rock a.* ; Alu'men Roma'num, A. ru'brum, a. ru'peum, &c., L. ; Alun Romatn, A. DE ROCHE, Fr.; Alume di rocca. It. In small fragments, covered with a reddish powder (alumenrubrumve"rum) ; originally imported from Civita-Vecchia, where it occurs native. It is much esteemed by dyers from being nearly free from iron-alum. That now sold for it in England, is ordinary alum coloured with Venetian red, Armenian bole, or rose-pink (alumen rubrum spu"rium). This is done by shaking the fragments in a sieve over a vessel of hot water, and then stirring them up with the colour, until the surface is uniformly tinged with it. In genuine roach-alum the colour not only covers the surface, but also partially pervades the substance of the crystals. The name was formerly also applied to a pure white variety of alum, prepared at Tolfa; but it is now, in English commerce, exclusively given to com- mon alum artificially coloured. So'da Alum. Syn. Sulphas alumin.e et SOD^, L. An alum in which the ‘ sulphate of potassa ’ of common alum is replaced by a like salt of soda. It does not occur in commerce. (Vide supra et infra.) AL'UM-EARTH. Alumina. ALUM MOR'DANTS. In dyeing, mordants having for their basis either common alum or the acetate or sulphate of alumina. See Alumina & Mordants. AL'UM-ROOT. Syn. Amer'ican san'icle ; Heu'cheea (Ph. U. S.), L. The root of heuchera America'na (Linn.), a plant of North America. It is powerfully styptic and astrin- gent ; and is used chiefly as an external appli- cation in cancer. ALUM-WHITE'. See White Pigments. AL'UMS. Syn. Alu'mina {pi. of alu'men), L. In chemistry, a term applied to a series or group of salts having * common alum ’ for their type, which they resemble in crystalline .form and atomic constitution. It is found that the alumina of ‘ common alum ’ may be replaced by any other metallic oxide having a like constitution, without affec- ting the leading characteristics of the salt; and further, that in the newly formed com- pound, as in potash-alum, the second sulphate may also be replaced under the like conditions. All the alums crystallise in octahedrons or cubes, and they all contain the same number of equivalents of water. The alums of commerce (or alums proper) all contain alumina and an alkaline sulphate. Prep. All the alums may be made by mixing together solutions of the respective sulphates in equivalent proportions, when crystals may be obtained by evaporation in the usual manner. The presence of sulphuric acid, in slight excess, assists their crystallisation. Obs. The constitution and formation of these salts will be immediately seen if we substitute the symbols M2 O3 (raetal2 oxygeug), and MO (metal, oxygen,) for those repre- I senting alumina and potassa in common alum.