1272 THIALDINE—THROAT AFFECTIONS. ployed. De Lisle’s thermometer was for- merly used in Russia, and some other parts of the north of Europe. As references to these scales are frequently met with in books, it is useful to know their relative value, and the method of reducing the one to the other. The BOILING-POINT of water is indicated by 212° on Fahrenheit’s scale, 100° on the Centigrade scale, 80° on that of Reaumur, and 0° on that of De Lisle; the feeezing-point of water marks 32° Fahrenheit, and 0°, or zero, on the Centigrade and Reaumur, and 150° on the scale of De Lisle. The 0° or zero of Fahrenheit is 82° below the freezing-point of water. 1. To reduce Centigrade degrees to those of Fahrenheit, multiply them by 9, divide the product by 5, and to the quotient add 32; that is— Cent.® X 9 L 5 32 = Fahr.° 2. To reduce Fahrenheit’s degrees to Cen- tigrade :— Fahr.° — 32 X 5 Cent. 3. To reduce Reaumur’s to Fahrenheit’s :— 32 = Fahr.° 4 4. To convert Fahrenheit’s to REArMiiR’s ;— Fahr°-32 x_4^Keanimir.° 9 Thermometers intended to register extreme degrees of heat are called pyrometers (which see). THIAL'BINE. Prep. Crystallized aldehyd- ammonia, 1 part, is dissolved in water, 14 parts, and the solution, after being very slightly alkalized with caustic ammonia, is sub- jected to a feeble stream of sulphuretted hy- drogen; the white crystalline deposit formed after some time is washed with a little cold water, dissolved in ether, the solution mixed with a little alcohol, and then abandoned to spontaneous evaporation. It forms large, re- gular, transparent, colourless, rhombic prisms; it melts at 110° Fahr.; is aromatic; neutral; freely soluble in alcohol and ether, scarcely ‘soluble in water; and forms crystallizable ‘salts with the acids. Heat decomposes it. THIONU'RIC ACID. A white crystalline acid, obtained by the action of a saturated so- 'lution of sulphurous acid in water, in slight excess, on a cold solution of alloxan. Its sa- turated solution, heated to the boiling-point, undergoes decomposition, and congeals into a semifluid, crystalline mass of itramile. THIOSIN'AMINE. A peculiar substance formed when the volatile oil of black mustard seed is placed in contact with a solution of pure ammonia. Colourless prismatic crystals, which are basic, bitter-tasted, and soluble in water. THCRIA. Syn. Thorina, Oxide of tho- RIUM. A primitive earth discovered by Ber- zelius, in 1828, in a rare mineral called tho- rite. Prep. The mineral is reduced to powder, digested in hydrochloric acid, and the result- ing solution evaporated to dryness; the resi- duum is redissolved in dilute acid, the solu- tion, after filtration, treated with sulphuretted hydrogen, and then precipitated with pure am- monia; the precipitate, after being washed with water, is exposed to a red heat. Prop., ^’c. A very heavy white powder; insoluble in all acids except the sulphuric; it is precipitated as a hydrate by caustic alka- lies, and is then easily soluble in the acids and alkaline carbonates. It is distinguished from all the other earths by its great density, its sp. gr. being 9‘402. THO'RIUM. The metallic base of thoria. It is obtained by the action of potassium on the chloride of thorium, and washing the re- sulting mass in water. THORN-APPLE. See Datura. THROAT AFFECTIONS. We intend here only to allude to those arising from exposure or cold. The list is therefore a short one. Croup, one of the most important, has been already briefly noticed. Quinsy, or inflammatory sore throat, the TONSILLITIS phlegmonoides of medical writers, commonly commences with stiffness and pain on one side of the throat, and swell- ing of the tonsils, attended by febrile symptoms, which increase as tumefaction advances, and sometimes become extreme. There is great restlessness and anxiety, considerable difficulty , in swallowing even liquids, the respiration is ^ painful and laborious, and the speech ob- structed. When the inflammation is not re- solved, these symptoms rapidly increase in se- verity, the patient suffers the greatest misery, the tumour suppurates rapidly, the abscess bursts, and with the rupture comes almost immediate relief. It occasionally happens that the other side of the throat then becomes af- fected, and goes through the same stages; but in general this is not the case, and the patient rapidly recovers, a few detergent gargles and a light nutritious diet being all that is required. Sometimes, at the very commencement of the attack, the inflammation may be resolved by the patient sucking a lozenge or powder, every hour or two, containing i or ^ gr. of tartarized antimony carefully triturated with about 20 gr. of lump sugar, so as to keep up a constant state of nausea or vomiting for hours. Malignant sore throat (angina, cy- nanche, or tonsillitis maligna) is marked by the inflammation of the tonsils being more superficial; but no sooner does it occur than it passes into small ulcers of varied colours and appearance, extending to the pharynx, | and spreading over the whole fauces, into the nostrils, and even around the glottis and down the oesophagus. These ulcers rapidly