438 CHLORONAPHTHALIC ACID—CHLOROTHALLE. spirit lamp. The mercury is protected from the chlorine hy the ammonia; and should any notion he entertained of such an action, the ammonia may be let up first. CHLORONAPHTHALIC ACID. Formed hy the action of chlorine on naphthaline. It unites with the metallic oxides, forming coloured salts, remarkable for their extreme beauty. CHLOROPHENI'SIC ACID. Syn. Teichlo- EOPHE'NOLE. This is the characteristic and principal product of the action of chlorine on the hydrate of oxide of phenyle (carbolic acid). Prep. The pure hydrate is not necessary for the preparation of this acid. Those portions of crude coal-oil which boil between 360° and 400° Fahr., are saturated with chlorine gas, and distilled in the open air; the first and last portions being rejected; the product is again treated with chlorine until the whole solidifies; the crystals are drained and dissolved in a hot dilute solution of ammonia; as the solution cools, crystals of chloeophenisate oe ammo- nia are deposited; this salt is dissolved in water, decomposed with hydrochloric acid, well washed, and, lastly, distilled. Prop., Sfc. Delicate, colourless, silky needles; very fusible; volatile at common temperatures; pungent; sparingly soluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol, ether, and hot oil of vitriol. Its salts are well defined, and are easily formed. By the action of chlorine, in great excess, an analogous compound called chloeophenu'- SiC ACID is formed. CHL0"R0PHYLE (fil). Syn. Chlo"eo- PHYLL. The green colouring matter “contained in the leaves, stalks, unripe fruit, and juices of most plants. Prep. 1. (Pure.) Green leaves are treated with ether, and the extract purified hy suc- cessive solutions in alcohol and hydrochloric acid; from the last the chlorophyle is pre- cipitated by water, and is then collected and dried. 2. (On a large scale.) Common grass having been previously treated with boiling water to re- move soluble principles, is digested in solution of carbonate of soda. Strength, 4° Twaddell (sp. gr. 1‘02). The liquid, which contains the co- louring matter in a tolerable state of purity, is then neutralized with hydrochloric acid, when an insoluble, flocculent precipitate is thrown down. This, washed a little, thickened, and mixed with salt of tin, forms a green dye for printing upon wool and silk. Prop., Uses. A dark-green substance, soluble in ether, alcohol, oils, acids, and alkalies, but insoluble in water. The attempts made to extract it in a state fit for dyeing have not been particularly successful. It is not pro- bable that it will ever he an important dyeing material, on account of the instability and comparative dulness of the shades it yields. Pelletier and Caventou, who first discovered chlorophyle, obtained it hy simply bruising the leaves, washing in water, and afterwards treating the washings with alcohol. This plan is still adopted when it is not wanted quite pure. CHLOROPIC'RIN. An oily liquid, disco- vered hy Stenhouse, formed when a solution of picric acid (or of chrysammic acid) is dis- tilled with hypochlorite (chloride) of lime, or with a mixture of chlorate of potassa and hydrochloric acid. It has a peculiar, pene- trating odour; boils at 238° Fahr.; sp. gr., 1‘665. CHLOROSAL'ICINE and BICHLOROSAL'- ICINE. Substitution compounds formed hy the action of chlorine on salicine. CHLOROSALICYL'OUS ACID. From chlorine and salicylous acid. The liquid becomes heated, and disengages large quantities of hydrochlo- ric acid. The product of the reaction is a yel- lowish crystalline mass, which, when dissolved in hot alcohol, yields colourless, tabular crystals, having a pearly lustre. These, which consist of the pure acid, are insoluble in water, and have a disagreeable odour and pungent taste. Chlorosalicylous acid, combines with the me- tallic oxides; with potassa it forms small, red, crystalline scales. CHIOROSALI'GENINE and BICHLORO- SALI'GENINE. Formed hy the decomposition of chlorosalicine and bichlorosalicine hy synap^ tase. CHLOROSAMTDE. A peculiar yellow, re- sinous compound, produced by the action of dry ammoniacal gas on pure chlorosalicylous acid. It is nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol and in hot ether; hot rectified spirit decomposes it; the boiling ethereal solution deposits chlorosamide under the form of fine, yellow, iridescent crystals in cooling. CHLORO'SIS. Syn. Geeen sickness. A disease which principally affects young un- married females. Symp. Languor, listlessness, fatigue after the least exercise, palpitation of the heart, flatulency, indigestion, acidity of stomach and bowels, constipation (generally), appetite for unnatural food, general debility, &c. As the disease advances, the skin, at first pale, assumes a peculiar greenish tint, the respira- tion becomes affected, the feet and legs swell, and various organic affections of the viscera ensue. During the early stages of this disease the catamenia are usually pale and scanty, and return at irregular intervals, and as it pro- gresses they disappear altogether. Treat. This should he tonic and restorative. That recommended under Anemia may be adopted with advantage. See also Appetite, Ateophy. CHL0"R0THALLE. Syn. Thall'ochloe. The green colouring matter of Cetraria island- ica or Iceland moss. It is soluble in alcohol, ether, some oils, and petroleum; and is dis- tinguished from chlorophyle, which in many particulars it resembles, by being insoluble in hydrochloric acid. It possesses feeble acid properties.