PASTELS-PASTIL. 1039 )xide of cobalt, 68 gr.; fuse in a luted Hessian •rucible for 30 hours. 3. (Fontanier.) Paste, 8 oz.j oxide of co- >alt, 49 gr. Topaz. 1. From strass, 1050 gr.; glass of intimony, 44 gr. j purple of cassius, 1 gr. j 2. (Douault-Wieland.) Paste, 3456 gr.; Calcined peroxide of iron, 36 gr. I Turquoise. From blue paste, 20 to 24 parts; l^alcined bones, 1 part. [ Concluding remarJcs. It is absolutely neces- sary for the successful application of the pre- ceding formula?, that the substances employed [should be perfectly free from impurities, more Particularly those of a mineral kind. The litharge, oxide of lead, and carbonate of lead, ibove all things, must be entirely free from bxide of tin, as the smallest particle of that substance may impart a * milkiness ^ to the laaste. All the ingredients must be separately I’educed to powder, and, after being mixed, Lifted through lawn. The fusion must be care- •Pilly conducted and continuous, and the melted 'nass should be allowed to cool very slowly, \fter having been left in the fire for 24 to 30 lours, at the least. Hessian crucibles are pre- ferred for this purpose, and the heat of an irdinary pottery or porcelain kiln is sufficient n most cases; but a small wind-furnace, de- moted exclusively to the purpose, is, in general, nore convenient. It is found that the more .ranquil, continuous, and uniform the fusion, |.he denser and clearer is the paste, and the greater its refractive power and beauty. ! All the coloured vitreous compounds noticed \\tpp. 560-2 may be worked up as ornamental [dones, in the same way as those just referred ::o. , The following method of obtaining aetipi- CiAL EUBIES and EMEEALDS, first pointed out by Boettger, is exceedingly simple and inex- pensive, and deserves the serious attention of those interested in this ingenious art:—Re- 'gently precipitated and well-washed hydrate of alumina is moistened with a few drops of aeutral chromate of potassa, and kneaded so that the mass assumes a tinge scarcely per- L'eptible; it is then rolled out into small sticks, ibout the thickness of a finger, and slowly Iried, taking the precaution to fill the fissures 'if any) that form during desiccation with itresh hydrate of alumina. When perfectly j-iry, and after having been submitted to a gentle heat, one end of these sticks is brought into the termination of the flame of an oxy- \hydrogen blowpipe, until a portion of the mass iis fused into a small globule. After the lapse of a few minutes, several minute balls form, liaving a diameter of some millimetres, and of such intense hardness that quart/, glass, topaz, md granite, may be easily and perceptibly ■'oratched with them. These, when cut and polished, appear, however, slightly opaque. By employing nitrate of nickel in lieu of chro- mate of potassa, green-coloured globules, closely ’esembling the emekald, are obtained. By the substitution of oxide of chromium for chromate of potassa, Mr. Cooley procured factitious gems of considerable hardness and beauty, though slighly opaque in some portion of the mass. The addition of a very little silica prevented, in a great measure, this ten- dency to opacity. It may be observed that the beauty of PASTES or FACTITIOUS GEMS, and especially the brilliancy of MOCK diamonds, is greatly dependent upon the cutting, setting up, and the skilful arrangement of the foil or tinsel behind them. See Enamel, Foils, Gems, Glass, &c. PAS'TELS. [Fr.] Coloured crayons. PAS'TIL. Syn. Pastille ; Pastillus, Pas- TILLUM, L. A lozenge or confection. The pastilles (pastilli) of French pharmacy, are merely ‘ confectionery drops ’ aromatized or medicated. The name is also given to mix- tures of odorous substances made up into small cones and burnt as incense. (See below.) Explo'sive Pastils. Fumigating pastilles, containing a little gunpowder. Used to pro- duce diversion, but they often prove far from harmless. Fumiga'ting Pastils. Syn. Aeomatic pas- tilles, Incense p. ; Pastilli fumantes, P. ODOEATI, L. Prep. 1. Benzoin, 4 oz.; cas- carilla, ^ oz.; nitre and gum arabic, of each, 3 dr.; myrrh, 1 dr.; oils of nutmeg and cloves, of each, 25 drops; charcoal, 7 oz. ,* all in fine powder; beat them to a smooth ductile mass with cold water, q. s.; form it into small cones with a tripod base, and dry them in the air. 2. (Henry and Guibourt.) Powdered gum benzoin, 16 parts j balsam of tolu and powdered sandal wood, of each, 4 parts ; a light charcoal (Linden), 48 parts j powdered tragacanth and true labdanum, of each, 1 part; powdered nitre and gum arabic, of each, 2 parts; cinnamon water, 12 parts; as above. 3. (P. Cod.) Benzoin, 2 oz.; balsam of tolu and yellow sandal wood, of each, 4 dr.; nitre, 2 dr.; labdanum, 1 dr.; charcoal, 6 oz.; mix with a solution of gum tragacanth, and divide the mass into pastilles, as before. 4. (Pastilles a la fleue d’oeange.) For powdered roses in the next formula substitute pure orange powder, and for the essence of roses use pure neroli. 5. (Pastilles a la eose.) Gum benzoin, olibanum (in tears), and styrax (in tears), of each, 12 oz.; nitre, 9 oz.; charcoal, 4 lb.; powder of pale roses, 1 lb.; essence of roses, 1 oz.; mix with 2 oz. of gum tragacanth, dis- solved in rose water, 1 quart. 6. (Pastilles a la Vanille.) Gum ben- zoin, styrax, and olibanum (as last), of each, 12 oz.; nitre, 10 oz.; cloves 8 oz.; powdered vanilla, 1 lb.; charcoal, 4a- lb. ; oil of cloves, ^ oz.; essence of vanilla, 7 or 8 fl. oz.; as before. Obs. The products of the above formulae are all of excellent quality. They may be varied to please the fancy of the artiste, by