V56 INDIGO BLUE—INDIGO DYE. iiitensely deep blue tint, light enough to swim on water; and it leaves only a fine streak when rubbed upon a piece of white paper. In general, when indigo is in hard, dry lumps of a dark colour, it is considered of bad or inferior quality. Indigo, when in hard or brittle lumps, or in dust or small bits, is often adulterated with sand, pulverized slate, and other earthy substances. Estim. Various methods for estimating the value of samples of indigo have been proposed, but none of them can be depended upon to give perfectly accurate results. The plan recommended by O’Neill ^ is perhaps the best; it is performed as follow^s :— Weigh 75 gr. of a fair sample of the indigo finely ground; and to soften and disintegrate it still further, boil it for a short time with ivrak caustic soda, and then, if there be any soft lumps or clots, strain through calico ,* mix this with 3 quarts of water in a narrow-necked bottle which it will nearly fill, and add 400 gr. of quicklime, which has been slaked as per- fectly as possible; shake well up, and add 1000 gr. measure of solution of ^ green cop- peras ’ (protosulphate of iron) at 30° Tvvaddell; cork the bottle closely, and leave it for three days, frequently shaking it in the interval. The indigo will be dissolved by this time; 1 quart of the clear solution is drawn off, shaken up in a bottle to oxidize it, acidified with acetic acid, and the pure indigo (indigotin) collected upon a filter, dried, and weighed. Four times the weight of the pure indigo is the per-centage of indigo in the sample. Uses. As a dye stuff, indigo is of great im- portance, both from the beauty and permanence of the colour it yields, and from the ease with which it is applied to fabrics of all materials. As a medicine, it has been employed in various affections of a spasmodic character, as chorea, convulsions, epilepsy, hysteria, &c. In large quantities, it often induces giddiness, vomiting, and diarrhoea; and when continued for some time, muscular twitchings, resembling those arising from strychnine. Dose. Beginning at about 15 gr., and gradually increased to 1, 2, or even 3 dr., at which it should be continued for 3 or 4 months; made into an electuary Avith honey or sugar, to which some aromatic may be added. See Indigo Dye, Indigotin, &c. Sul'phate of Indigo. Syn. Sulphindylic ACID, SULPHINDIGOTIC A., SaXONY BLUE, Soluble indigo. This compound is really an acid analogous to sulphovinic acid, but we notice it under the name by which it is commonly knowm. Prep. By gradually adding indigo (in fine powder), 1 part, to fuming sulphuric acid (Nordhausen sulph. a.), 5 parts, or oil of vitriol, 8 parts, contained in a stone-ware vessel placed in a tub of very cold water, to prevent the mixture heating; the ingredients are stirred together with a glass rod at short intervals ^ See "Dictionary of Calico Prinlvig and Dyeing.'’ until the solution is complete, after which the whole is allow’ed to repose for about 48 hours, by which time it becomes a homo- geneous pasty mass of an intense blue colour which in a dull light appears nearly black. Obs. In this state it forms ‘Baeth’s blue,’ or the ‘ CHEiiic blue ’ or ‘ indigo compo- sition ’ of the dyer. Diluted^ with about tAvice its weight of soft water, it is converted into the ‘ Saxony blue ’ or ‘ liquid blue ’ of the shops, also used for dyeing. When com- mercial ‘ sulphate of indigo’ is diffused through a large quantity of water, nearly boiling, and wool (old white flannel rags, &c.) is macerated in it for some time, the latter absorbs the whole of the ‘sulphate’ and is dyed blue, whilst the liquor assumes a greenish-blue colour. Wool, so prepared, when well rinsed in eold water, and boiled for some minutes in a large quantity of that liquid containing Ig or 2§ of carbonate of potassa, or a quantity equal to about l-3rd that of the indigo originally employed, gives up its blue colour, and be- comes of a dull brown. The liquid is now a rich blue-coloured solution of ‘ sulphindylate OF POTASSA,’ from which the salt may be ob- tained by cautious evaporation. This com- pound is prepared on the large scale, by di- luting sulphate of indigo with about 12 times its weight of soft water, and imperfectly satu- rating the solution with carbonate of potassa ; the sulphindylate falls down as a dark-blue coppery-looking poAvder, soluble in 140 parts of cold water and in about 90 parts of boiling w’ater. This substance is kept both in the moist and dry state, and is knoAvn in com- merce under the respective names of ‘dis- tilled INDIGO,’ ‘ PEECIPITATED I.,’ ‘ SOLUBLE I.,’ ‘INDIGO PASTE,’ ‘BLUE CAEMINE,’ ‘DIS- TILLED BLUE,’ ‘ SOLUBLE BLUE,’ &c. It is ex- tensively used in dyeing; and Avhen mixed with starch, whilst in the moist state, and made into cakes or knobs, it constitutes the finest variety of the ‘blue’ used by laundresses for tinging linen. The ammonia and soda salts may be prepared in the same Avay as the potassa salt, by substituting the carbonates of those bases for carbonate of po- tassa. The ammonia salt is very soluble. INDIGO BLUE. See Indigotin. INDIGO DYE. There are two methods of preparing solutions of indigo for dyeing.—1. By deoxidizing it and then dissolving it in alkaline menstrua.—2. By dissolving it in sul- phuric acid. Tlie former method is used in pre- paring the ordinary INDIGO VAT of the dyers. 1.—a. (Cold tat.) Take of indigo, in fine poAvder, 1 lb.; green copperas (clean cryst.), 2^ to 3 lb.; newly slaked lime, 3J to 4 lb.; triturate the poAvdered indigo with a little water or an alkaline lye, then mix it with some hot water, add the lime, and again Avell mix, after which stir in the solution of copperas, and agitate the whole thoroughly at intervals for 24 hours. A little caustic potassa or soda is frequently added, and a corresponding por-