225 •ARSENIOUS ACID. j capsule, by the heat of a water-bath. It is then dried at a temperature not above 212° i Fahr., and finally ‘weighed.^ Each grain of the \iersulphuret so found corresponds to ‘80487 gr. of AESENIOUS ACID, Or ‘61 gr. of METALLIC tAESENIC. ! b. As (metallic) Arsenic:—Obtained by one iof the processes already given. Each gr. represents 1^ gr., or more correctly, 1*32 gr. of AESENIOIJS ACID. I c. As Arsenious acid:—Obtained in a weighed icapsule or tube, either by the crystallisation 'Or sublimation test. The weight is the answer sought for ARSENIOUS ACID. Each gr. of this is equiv. to f gr., or more correctly, ‘75758 ^r. of METALLIC AESENIC. 2. Volumetric ALLY:—a. (Method of F. Mohr.) This depends on the fact, that an iqueous solution of arsenious acid, or of an ilkaline arsenite, when mixed with an excess >f a saturated solution of pure bicarbonate of ioda, and a little starch-paste, has its arsenious icid converted into ‘ arsenic acid,’ by a solution )f iodine. A ‘ standard solution of iodine’ is, herefore, an appropriate aesenim'eter for he above mixture. Every 2 equiv. of iodine ■onsumed, represents 1 eq. of arsenious acid. (fhe solution of iodine is added until the blue tarch-reaction just begins to appear; the arsenious solution’ having been previously ixactly neutralised with pure carbonate of oda, if acid; or with pure hydrochloric acid, I |f alkaline. The results are accurate when no ' ubstance capable of oxidising or decomposing odine is present in the liquid tested.^ b. (Bunsen’s Method.) This is based on he fact that when bichromate of potassa is l)oiled with concentrated hydrochloric acid, 3 quiv. of chlorine are disengaged for every 5 eq. of ‘ chromic acid’ present; but if arse- lious acid be also present (not in excess), 'here is a deficiency of chlorine disengaged orresponding to the quantity required to con- ert the arsenious acid into ‘arsenic acid.’ 'Ivory 2 equiv. of this deficiency represent 1 eq. !f ARSENIOUS ACID.2 Ehys. eff., Sfc. Arsenious acid or ‘white i, rsenic’ is alike destructive to vegetable and 0! nimal life. Seeds soaked in any but a very !reak solution of it, lose their power of ger- 'fiination; and buds plunged in it become incapable of expanding into fiowers. When , Ipplied to the leaves, roots, or stems, absorp- f Jion takes place, and the plant soon perishes. ')n combustion it evolves the characteristic ifi arlic-like odour of arsenic, and arsenic may e discovered in its substance by chemical jests. According to Jager, Gilgenkrantz, and of rereira, a few of the lower order of the algje of ire occasionally developed in solutions of jrsenious acid. To all animals, from the in- lisoria up to man, arsenic proves deleterious, i]]o ^ ^ See Mohr’s “ Lehrhuch der Titrimethode” p. 295. “-dun. d. Cheni. u. Fharm.,” n. 86, 209. Tlie details the metliods of Bunsen and Molir, are accurately and icidly given in Freseuius’s “ Quant. Chetn. Anal.,” Bul- ck’s lYansl., 3rd ed., p. 230, &c. although in difierent degrees; the highest susceptibility of its eftects existing in man, on account of the superiority of his development. In all of them* death is preceded by inordinate actions and increased evacuations, especially from the mucous surfaces. Difficult respira- tion, thirst, vomiting, and convulsions, are the leading symptoms which gradually develope themselves as we approach the higher grades of the system. (Jager.) In very small or therapeutical doses, properly administered, it is a valuable medicine, and acts as a tonic, altera- tive, and antispasmodic attenuant; and ex- ternally, as an escharotic. In slightly increased medicinal doses, or long-continued small doses, nausea, vomiting, purging, griping, debility, emaciation, and all the eftects of slow-poison- ing, occur in succession—“ a gradual sinking of the powers of life, without any violent symptom; a nameless feeling of illness, failure of the strength, an aversion to food and drink, and to all the enjoyments of life.” (Christison ex Hahnemann.) Redness of the conjunctiva and eyelids, headache and giddiness, spasms, eczematous eruptions, numbness and paralysis of the limbs, and ptyalism, are also frequent and well-marked symptoms of slow poisoning by arsenic. In an excessive or poisonous dose, the symptoms are rapid and violent; usually indicating extreme gastro-intestinal infiammation and disorder of the cerebro-spinal system, and often occasioning death in from 1 to 3 days. “The smallest fatal dose I have hitherto found recorded is 4| gr., taken in solution. The subject was a child 4 years old, and death occurred in six hours.” (Christison.) 2^ gr. destroyed a robust girl in 36 hours. (Letheby.)^ 2 gr., in solution, are suspected to have caused the death of a full-grown woman.'* 1 to 2 gr. may prove fatal in a few days. (Hahnemann; Christison.) 2 or 3 gr. may be a fatal dose. (Dr. A. Taylor.) “ The powerful effects sometimes produced by |, i, or ^ a gr., lead us to suspect that 1 gr. might produce death; but we have no recorded case of this.” (Pereira.)® Notwithstanding these facts much larger quantities have been taken, under peculiar circumstances, with compara- tive impunity; and cases are not wanting in which even enormous quantities have pro- duced very trifling effects. The statements of Wibmer, and of Von Tschudi, that the pea- santry of Upper Styria, (Austria,) use arsenic, to the extent of 2 or 3 gr. daily, as a condi- ment, particularly with cheese, and with bene- fit to their strength, health, and personal beauty, must be regarded as unworthy of credence until confirmed by other authorities.® ® “Land. Med. Gaz.,” xxxix. 116. * Ibid., xlii. 87. 5 “Mat. Med. ^ Therap.,” 4th ed., i. 705. 6 These statements have gained a dangerous notoriety, from having been lately revived in a talented and attrac- tive popular work—“Chemistry of Common Life,” by J. V. W. Johnston. The researches of Kesteven, and others, go far to shew that these so-called “indisputable facts” do not rest on any trustworthy gounds ; and tliat the ‘ white ai'scnic’ of the Styrian peasants is most probably 15