I 1297 VACCINATION—VALEEIANIC ACID. , mad water, the Irish name of which, ^whiskey/ I is a corruption. At the present time it is ; applied to a strong cordial spirit, much drunk , in Ireland, and made in the greatest perfection at Drogheda. I Prep. 1. Brandy or proof spirit, 3 gall.; \ dates (without their kernels) and raisins, of ; each, bruised, \ lb.; juniper berries, bruised, il oz.; mace and cloves, of each, f oz.; cori- \ander and aniseed, of each, ^ oz.; cinnamon, \\oz.; macerate, with frequent agitation, for !14 days, then filter, and add of capillaire or simple syrup, 1 gall. 2. Pimento and caraways, of each, 3 oz.; mace, cloves, and nutmegs, of each, 2 oz.; aniseed, corianders, and angelica root, of each, ;8 oz. / raisins, stoned and bruised, 14 lb.; proof spirit, 9 gall.; digest as before, then press, filter, or clarify, and add of simple syrup, |q. s. Should it turn milky, add a little strong \^spirit, or clarify it with alum, or filter through \nagnesia. I Obs. Usquebaugh is either coloured yellow iwith saffron (about ^ oz. per gall.), or green jwith sap-green (about ^ oz. per gall.); either being added to the other ingredients, before maceration in the spirit. [ VACCINATION. See Cow-pox (page 1139). VAC'CINE MATTER. Syn. Ltmpha vac- CINI.®, L. This is collected either upon the ooints of Idncet-like pieces of ivory, or by Dpening the pustule, and applying a small glass hall and tube (like those called by the boys in London candle-pops, or fire-pops) to the orifice, [expelling part of the air in the ball by bringing 1 lighted taper near it; then, withdrawing the paper, the matter is sucked into the ball, in jsvhich it may be sealed up hermetically or pemented, and thus kept for a length of time. It is, however, now generally preserved be- pween two small pieces of glass, or in straight '.apillary glass tubes. It is said that cotton *hread is a convenient and efficient vehicle. The matter may be liquefied with a little clean vater before application. A degree of heat : scarcely higher than that of the blood lessens ts efficacy )- VAC'UUM. Empty space; a portion of space void of matter. For experimental and nanufacturing purposes, a sufficient vacuum is )roduced either by means of the air-pump, or )y filling an inclosed space with steam, which s then condensed by the application of cold. Evaporation proceeds much more rapidly, and iquids boil at much lower temperatures in an :xhausted receiver than when exposed to the lir. Thus, under ordinary circumstances, in 'he air, ether boils at 96°, alcohol at 177°, and ivater at 212° Fahr.; but in vacuo water boils jit about 88°, alcohol at 56°, and ether at —20° Fahr. In the best vacuum obtainable |)y a powerful air-pump, water placed over oil |»f vitriol, to absorb the aqueous vapour as it forms, will often enter into violent ebullition whilst ice is in the act of formation on its sur- face. The reduction of the boiling-point with reduced pressure is practically taken advantage of by the pharmaceutist in the preparation of extracts, by the sugar refiner in the eva- poration of his syrups, by the distiller in the production of certain liqueurs, and by the chemist in a variety of processes of interest or utility. See Exteacts, Evapoeation, Re- FEIGEEATION, &C. VALERACETONITRILE, VALERONF- TRILE. Two remarkable, light, ethereal li- quids, obtained, along with other products, when a dilute solution of gelatine is distilled with a mixture of bichromate of potassa and sulphuric acid. The first boils at 158°, and the other at 257° Fahr. VALE"RAMIDE. A fusible crystalline sub- stance, formed by treating valerianic ether with ammonia. VALE"RIAN. Syn. Valeeian.® eadix, Valeeiana (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “ The root of the wild plant Valeriana officinalis (Linn.), or wild valerian.’^ (Ph. L.) An excitant, anti- spasmodic, tonic, and emmenagogue, not only acting on the Secretions, but exercising a specific influence over the cerebro-spinal sys- tem, and in large quantities producing agi- tation, mental exaltation, and even intoxi- cation. Dose. 10 to 30 or 40 gr., thrice daily; in hysteria, epilepsy, headache (affecting only one side), morbid nervous sensibility, &c. Even the odour of it exerts a species of fasci- nation over cats. VALERIANTC ACID. -S'yn. Valeeic acid; AcIDTJM VALEEIANICtJM, A. VALEEICDM, L. Prep. 1. By distilling valerian root along with about 8 times its weight of water, and acting on the product with caustic potassa, when VALEEIANATE OF POTASSA is formed, and a volatile oil is separated; by evaporating to dryness, the latter is dissipated, and the dry mixture, treated with dilute sulphuric acid and distilled, yields an aqueous solution of valerianic acid; by careful redistillation this may be de- prived of water. 2. (Artificially.) A ruixture of potato oil or corn-spirit oil (hydrated oxide of amyl) with about 10 times its weight of quicklime and hydrate of potassa in equal proportions, placed in a glass flask, is kept heated to about 400° Fahr., for 10 or 12 hours, by means of a bath of oil or fusible metal; the nearly white solid residuum is mixed with water, an excess of sulphuric acid added to the mixture, and the whole subjected to distillation; the distillate is supersaturated with potassa, evaporated nearly to dryness, to dissipate any undecomposed potato oil, and then mixed with weak sulphuric acid in excess i a light oily liquid (terhydrated valerianic acid) separates, which, by cautious rectification, yields at first water containing a little acid, and afterwards pure monohydrated valerianic acid, which is perfectly identical with that prepared from valerian root. 82