1011 PATENT MEDICINES. follows:—Fresh butter (free from water), | lb.; I bees' ivax (good), 4iOZ.; yellow resin, 3 oz. / melt them together, add of vinegar of cantha- rides, 1 11. oz., and simmer the whole, with constant agitation, for 10 or 12 minutes, or until the moisture is nearly evaporated; then i add, of Canada balsam, 1 oz. ; expressed oil of j mace, dr.; balsam of Peru or liquid styrax, I 10 or 12 drops; again stir well, allow the ! mixture to settle, and when it is about half! cold (not before) pour it into the pots, pre- | viously slightly warmed, and allow it to cool! very slowly. The label will do the rest. No 1 two samples of Holloway’s ointment are pre-! cisely of the same colour or consistence. Holloway’s Pills. From aloes, 4 parts; jalap, \ ginger, and myrrh, of each, 2 parts; made into a mass with mucilage, and divided into 2-grain pills, of which about 4 dozen are put into each is. l\d. box. Jackson’s Bathing Spirit. A species of soap liniment, made of soft soap, 1 lb.; camphor, 6 oz.; oils of rosemary and thyme, of each, | fl. oz.; rectified spirit, 1 gall. Kaye’s Infant’s Preservative. A preparation partaking of the joint properties of Atkinson’s nostrum and Godfrey’s cordial, but more pow- erful than either, as indicated by the doses in which it is directed to be given during early infancy, viz., “ two, three, or more drops.” Keating’s Cough Lozenges. These are said to be composed of—Lactucarium, 2 dr. j ipe- cacuanha, 1 dr. j squills, | dr.; extract of liquor- ice, 2 oz.; sugar, 6 oz.; made into a mass with mucilage of tragacantk, and divided into 20-gr. lozenges. King’s Sarsaparilla Pills. From the com- pound extract. “ Instead of two pills being equivalent to | fl. oz. of the concentrated decoc- tion or essence of sarsaparilla, as asserted, it takes about 32 of them to represent the given quantity, and about 4 of them to be equal in strength to the common decoction of the Phar- macopoeia.” “ Instead of one 2s. 9d. box of these pills being equal to a pint of the costly : concentrated fluid preparation, it woufd take nearly lb. of them for that purpose.” (‘ Med. Circ.,’ ii, 493.) Kitchener’s Peristaltic Persuaders. See Pills. Lambert’s Asthmatic Balsam. The active j ingredients in this compound are said to be squills and aqueous extract of opium. Lemazurier’s Odontalgic Essence. From acetate of morphia, 1 gr.; dissolved in cherry- laurel water, 1 oz. For use, a teaspoonful is j added to | a wine-glassful of warm water, and I the mouth well rinsed out with the mixture. i Leroy’s Purgative.—a. (No. 1.) Vegetable \ turbith, 6 dr.; scammony, 1^ oz.; jalap, 6 oz. j ; brandy, 10 pints; digest for 24 hours, and add j a syrup made of senna, 6 oz.; water, pint; j sugar, 32 oz. j b. (No. 2.) As the last, only l-3rd stronger. I c. (No. 3.) Twice as strong as No. 1. Lewis’s Electuarium. A liquid nostrum, said to be alterative and to contain a small quantity of both antimony and mercury. Lewis’s Balsamic Ointment. This prepa- ration, which is declared by its proprietor to be “ utterly unsurpassable,” for the most part resembles Holloway’s ointment. (‘ Med. Circ.,’ ii, 493.) Lewis’s Silver Cream. This nostrum is said to depend for its efficacy on white precipitate and a salt of lead. Locock’s Pulmonic Lozenges. See Wafees. Mahomed’s Paste. See Electuaey. Mardant’s Norton’s !^Drops. A mixture of the tinctures of gentian and ginger, holding in solution a little bichloride of mercury, and coloured with cochineal. Marriott’s Dry Vomit. A mixture of equal parts of tartar emetic and sulphate of copper. Marsden’s Drops. A coloured solution of corrosive sublimate. (Dr. Paris.) Matthieu’s Vermifuge.—a. (To destroy the worm.) Tin filings, 1 oz. j male fern root, 6 dr,; worm seed, 4 dr. j resinous extract of jalap and sulphate of potassa, of each, 1 dr.; honey, q. s, to form an electuary. Dose. A teaspoonful repeated every third or fourth hour, for 2 or 3 days, when the following is to be substi- tuted, and continued until the bowels are well acted on. b. (To expel the worms.) Jalap and sul- phate of potassa, of each, 40 gr.; scammony, 20 gr.; gamboge, 10 gr. ; honey, q. s.; as before. McKinsey’s Golden Cerate. This appears tc resemble Poor man’s friend. ^ McKinsey’s Katapotia. This notorious nos-j trum is compounded of aloes, 5 oz.; soap 1| oz.; (both in powder;) beaten up with syrui- of saffron and a little essential oil, and divided into pills varying in weight from 2 to 2J gr each, (‘ Med. Circ.,’ iv, 86.) McKinsey’s Medicinal Powder. Syn. Eev T. Smith's m. p. From dried lavender fiower.' and rosemary tops, of each, 2\ oz.; asarabacca 1 oz.; reduced to powder, and further dis- guised with a little perfume. A very small quantity of subsulphate of mercury is also most probably added. Two or three pinches of tlii' powder, taken 3 or 4 times a day, as snuff, i? said by the proprietor to be sufficient to cure almost every known disease. See Asaea- BACCA. Morison’s Aperient Powder. A mixture ol cream of tartar and lump sugar, in nearlj equal proportions, with sufficient powdereu cassia to give it an aromatic flavour. Set Pills. Morrison’s Adhesive Paste. See Plastee. Ollivier’s Biscuits. Take of the white of 2 eggs; water, f pint; beat them together | ’ strain the mixture, and add to it a solutmM of bichloride of mercury, 76 gr.; collect thd;j| precipitate, wash, dry, powder, and careful!v weigh it; next add it to such a quantity ol