ALUM. 121 I Uses, &CC. Tlie applications of alum in the ' arts and manufactures are numerous and im- portant. It is used to harden tallow and/a^s ; I to render wood and paper incombustible ; to I remove greasiness from printers’ blocks and j rollers; to prepare a paper for whitening ' silver and silvering brass in the cold; to help : the separation of the butter from milk; to I purify turbid water; to dress skins; to fv I and brighten the colours in dyeing; to make I lake and pyrophorus; &c., &c. It is also . extensively used for clarifying liquors, and for many other purposes connected with the arts and every-day life. In medicine, alum is used as a tonic and astringent, in doses of 5 I to 20 gr.; as a gargle (1 dr. to ^ pint of water'); , and as a collyrium and injection (10 to 15 gr. j to 6 oz. of water). In lead colic, i to 1 dr. of alum (dissolved in gum-water), every 3 or 4 I hours, is said to he infallible. Powdered alum is frequently applied with the tips of the fingers, in cases of sore throat and ulcerations of the mouth, &c. A teaspoonful of it is said to be one of the very best emetics in I croup. (Dr. Meigs.) Alkalies, alkaline car- j bonates, lime, magnesia, acetate of lead, I astringent vegetables, &c., are incompatible j with it. I Gen. Commentary. The alum-manufacture of the United Kingdom, though one of great j importance and value, is nevertheless confined I to very few hands. We believe the only alum- I works of any importance, now in operation, I are those already referred to (see ante). In addition to the particulars of its manufacture i given above, we may add, that the plan of I getting rid of the ferric salts there referred to, 1 has to some considerable extent been success- j full}' replaced by that of precipitating the I alum, instead of the sulphate of iron, by adding alkaline matter to the lixivium. The crys- talline precipitate is purified by draining, re- solution, and re-crystallisation; whilst the ! sulphate of iron and Epsom-salts contained in [ the mother-liquor, are obtained by subsequent I evaporation and crystallisation; after which a fresh crop of alum may be got from it, j by the use of an alkaline precipitant, as i before. I In estimating the strength of his solution, I the alum-maker takes as a ‘ standard’, a measure I or sp. gr. bottle capable of holding exactly 80 I pennyweights of distilled water. The excess of the weight of liquor, in pennyweights, over 80, or that of water, is called so many ‘ penny- weights strong.’ Thus one of 90 pennyweights (90 dwtfj is said to be ‘10 dwt. strong f or simply, ‘ one of 90 dwt.’ These numbers cor- respond to degrees of Twaddle’s hydro- meter, and may he easily found by dividing Twaddle’s degrees by 2-5 or ; or by multiplying them by 4, and pointing off the I right-hand figure of the product for a deci- I il mal. The result is in alum-makers’ penny- weights. By a patent now expired (Weisman’s, 1839), the ferric salts are precipitated by the addition of a solution of ferrocyanide of potassium (prussiate of potash) ; after which the super- natant clear liquor, which is now a solution of nearly pure sulphate of alumina, is decanted, and evaporated for future operations, until it either forms, on cooling, a concrete mass, which is moulded into bricks or lumps, for the convenience of ‘ packing,’ or until it is suffi- ciently concentrated to be converted into alum by the addition ote.salt ofpotash or of ammonia, in the usual manner. The product, in each case, is perfectly free from iron. By a like addition of the ferrocyanide to a solution of ordinary sulphate of alumina or alum, the dyer may himself easily render them free from iron, or iron-alum; when, as mordants for even the most delicate colours, they are equal to the very best Roman alum. Another process has been patented (Barlow & Gore, 1851) for the manufacture of alum from the ash or residue of the combustion of Boghead-coal, which, though hitherto regarded as almost valueless, actually contains about 302 of alumina. It has not, however, been found a convenient material for the purpose. By the latest and most approved processes the least possible quantity of boiling water or liquor is employed for making the solutions, so that they may crystallise without evaporation, and thus economise fuel; and the mother- liquors of previous operations are constantly employed for this purpose, when possible. Nor is anything which is convertible to use, from the ‘ drainage ’ of the heaps, to the ‘ liquor ’ and ‘ slime ’ of the reaching casks, allowed to be wasted. By whatever process, or from whatever materials alum is obtained, it is absolutely necessary for the successful and economical conduct of its manufacture, that the precise composition of the mineral or minerals em- ployed should he exactly known. This can only be determined by actual analysis, which should be extended to several parts of the same bed, and particularly to the upper and lower strata, which frequently difier in com- position from each other, and thus require different treatment, or may be most advan- tageously employed in combination wdth each other. The necessity of this will he seen by reference to the composition of the following minerals, of which the top contains a larger proportion of iron-pyrites than the bottom, and the two require to be mixed, to equally diffuse the sulphuric acid generated by the calcination, &c., to which they are sub- jected. The following is the per-centage composition of certain alum-shales:—