BENZOIC ACID. BENJOIN, &c., Fr.; Benzoesauee, &c., Ger. A substance which is commonly stated to be the characteristic constituent of the true bal- sams. Pure oil of bitter-almonds {hydruret of henzuyle) sufiers gradual conversion into this acid % exposure to the air. hist. The knowledge of benzoic acid, even in a crude form, probably does not date back further than the end of the fifteenth century. It was certainly known to Pedemontanus (a.d. 1560) j and was described by Blaise de Vige- nere. in 1608. Prep. The acid of commerce is principally obtained from gum-benzoin, either by sublima- tion (‘ dry way ^), or by dissolving it out by means of an alkali, or an alkaline earth, in the form of a salt (‘ moist way") j but chiefly by the first method. 1. By SUBLIMATION :— a. Good benzoin, crushed small or in the state of coarse powder, is placed in a cylindri- cal iron-pot with a flat bottom, and from 8 to 9 inches in diameter, so as to form a layer of from 1 to 2 inches deep. The ‘ open end" of the ‘ pot’ is next covered with a sheet of soft and loose blotting-paper} which is attached to the rim with paste. A ‘ cone,’ * cap,’ or ‘ cy- : linder,’ formed of strong thick paper {cartridge I p.), open at its lower end, is then placed over the ‘ top of the pot,’ including the blotting- paper ; and this is also attached with paste and string. The apparatus, thus prepared, is then placed on a sand-bath}- and exposed for 4 to 6 hours to a gentle and uniform heat. It is next removed from the sand-bath, and, when it has sufficiently cooled, inverted, and the string detached, when crys- tals of BENZOIC ACID are found in the paper-cone. If, owing to want of care in manipulating, the product is either coloured or empyreumatic, it must be enve- loped in several folds of bibulous paper, then submitted to powerful pressure, and afterwards resubliined. The simple form of apparatus figured in the engr. answers well on the small scale, and is that recommended by Dr. Mohr. The processes of the Ph. E.^, Bor., & D.^, and Ph. L. 1836, are essentially the same in prin- ciple as the above. In the present Ph. L. (1851), benzoic acid is placed in the ‘ materia medica.* b. (Ph. D. 1850.) The * subliming-pot ’ is ordered to be of sheet-iron. It is to be fitted into a ‘ circular hole ’ in a sheet of pasteboard, and a ‘collar’ of tow interposed between it and the ‘ flange,’ so as to produce a nearly air- tight junction. The paper ‘ receiver’ or ‘ cap ’ 1 Liebig. * On an iron-ylate on wliicli sand lias been spread— Ph. Bor. * A simple glass-matrass being used as the subliming vessel. * See 1 h., in the Text, is to be cylindrical, open at one end and about 18 inches high, with a diameter at least twice that of the pot j and it is to be secured, in an inverted position, on the pasteboard, and fas- tened to it by slips of paper and flour-paste. A couple of inches of the ‘ pot ’ is to be passed through a corresponding hole in a plate of sheet-tin, which is to be kept from contact with the ‘ pasteboard ’ by the interposition of a few corks ; and a heat* only just sufficient to melt the benzoin is to be applied for at least six hours.® c. (Process adopted at Apothecaries^ Hall, London.) The best gum-benzoin is put into an iron-pot, set in brickwork over a suitable small fire-place (or flue),’ and communicating by a conical metal neck, with a wooden box (techni- cally termed a ‘ house’) lined with white blot- ting paper, as a ‘ receiver ’ for the ‘ flowers.’ A piece of flne muslin, or of bibulous paper, is interposed between the top of the ‘ subliming- pot ’ and the ‘ receiver,’ to prevent the subli- mate falling back into the former. The subli- mation is conducted rather rapidly, and the acid condenses in beautiful white, soft, flexi- ble crystals, which are at once ready for the market. When the process is conducted more slowly, the product is proportionately scaly. Obs. Good samples of benzoin yield from 10 to 12g, or even 12^ g, of ‘ flowers ’ or ‘ acid of the first sublimation.’ This, after being pressed in blotting paper and again sublimed, gives 8^. to log of nearly pure benzoic acid. The loss arising from a second sublimation is thus so great, that the utmost care should be taken to avoid its necessity. 2. In the moist way: — a. (Ph. D. 1826; Scheele’s Process.) Equal parts of benzoin and hydrate of lime, in fine powder, are intimately mixed together, and boiled for about an hour, with 40 parts of water ; the liquor, after filtration, is evaporated to |th, and the ‘ lime ’ saturated with hydro- chloric acid} the BENZOIC ACID crystallises out as the liquor cools, and is then either washed with very cold water and dried by a gentle heat, or it is dried and sublimed in the manner already explained. The product of the sublimation is extremely white and pure. Obs. An economical and productive process ; but, to ensure success, a perfect mixture of the dry ingredients must be first made; as other- wise the benzoin runs into a solid mass in the boiling water, and the operation fails.—Prod. “ 1 lb. of (gum) benjamin yields 1 oz. 6 dr. 2 scr. of flowers.” (Gray.)* b. (Process of Stoltze.) The benzoin is dis- solved in 3 times its weight of alcohol, the so- lution introduced into a retort, and a solution of carbonate of soda in weak spirit-and-water, * That ‘ of a gas-flame* is recommended. A ring of very small gas-jets answers better. ® See 1 a (above). 7 A pan with a steam-jacket answers well, and is very manageable. 8 A quantity which, in our own experiments, we were never able to obtain.