929 MOTHER OF PEARL—MUCILAGE. aftections of the lungs and digestive organs. In Iceland, after the bitter has been removed by soaking it in hot water, it is made into jelly, or dried, ground to flour, and made into bread. I Ieish moss, Peael m., Caeeageen m. \{Chondrus crispus). Very nutritious. The j decoction or jelly is a useful and popular de- ! mulcent and emollient in pulmonary affections, I dysentery, scrofula, rickets, &c. It is often employed by cooks and confectioners instead of isinglass; and by painters to make their size. Rein-deee moss {Cladonia rangiferina). Esculent, very nutritious. MOTH'ER OF PEARL. See Peael. MOTH''ER WATER. See Cetstalliza- TION. MOULDS. Numerous materials and com- positions are employed for the purpose of taking moulds, among which are the follow- ing :— ^ I 1. (CoMPo’.)—a. From spermaceti, stearine | or hard tallow, and white wax, equal parts, I Lozenge, Paste, Powdee, Washes, &c. melted together. For flne work, as medals, i MOX'AS. Substances burnt upon the body, small casts, &c. ! for the purpose of acting as counter-irritants, b. From black resin, ^ lb.; hard tallow, | lb.; '\ and allaying deep-seated pains, and inflamma- bees' wax, 6 oz.; as the last. For coarse work, j tion. They have been used in gout, rheuma- as architectural ornaments, &c. The above tism, &c. The small cone constituting the 3. (Metallic.)—a. From fusible metal)- b. (Clichee moulds.) From a fusible alloy formed of bismuth, 8 parts; lead, 5 parts; tin, 4 parts; antimony, 1 part; repeatedly melted together. The above are poured out in the melted state on a plate or slab, and after being stirred until iu a pasty state, the object to be copied is strongly pressed on the alloy at the moment it begins to solidify. They are chiefly used for medals and other like objects. c. (Chameroy’s Patent.) By melting together one part of some easily fusible metal in a cru- cible, and then mixing with it four parts of a metal far less readily fusible, steeped in am- monia and reduced to powder. Such a com- pound is stated to be of great solidity, hard- ness, facility of soldering, melts at a low temperature, and has great tractability in moulding to any form; and in casting takes the sharpest impressions, whilst in its nature it is peculiarly unchangeable. See Electeo- TYPE. MOUTH COSMETICS. See Beeath, Teeth, arc poured on the objects to be copied (pre- viously oiled) whilst in the melted state. Ar- ticles in plaster of Paris are first soaked in water, observing that none of it remains on the surface so as to interfere with the design. 2. (Elastic.)—a. Flexible or elastic moulds may be made of gutta percha softened in boil- ing water, and after being freed from moisture, I pressed strongly against the object to be copied,' by means of a screw press. A ring or support j should be employed to prevent undue lateral spreading. j moxa is placed upon the part, lighted, and allowed to burn to its base. The Chinese and Japanese rnoxas are made of the downy por- tion of the leaves of a species of wormwood {Artemisia sinensis); but various other sub- stances, as the pith of the sunflower, cotton, or paper, soaked in a weak solution of nitrate, chlo- rate,ov chromate ofpotassa, answer as well. The actual cautery is said to be preferable to any of them. MU'CIC ACID. Syn. Saccholactic acid. A compound discovered by Scheele, and by b. By the use of gelatine or glue, elastic j him named ^ saccholactic acid.’ It is obtained moulds are formed capable of reproducing, with ' in a state of purity by digesting 1 part of accuracy, and in a single piece, the most' ©/■ in 4 parts of nitric acitZ (sp.gr. elaborately sculptured objects, of exquisite finish and delicacy. Casts from these are now common in the streets. The credit of the application of this substance to the purpose is due to M. H. Vincent. The process of casting consists in simply dissolving a certain quantity of gelatine in hot water until it is reduced to the state of liquid paste, when it is run over the object, previously oiled, intended to be reproduced. As it cools, the gelatine assumes a consistency offering a considerable degree of resistance, and is highly elastic, which latter quality enables it to be easily detached from the work on which it has been fitted. In the hollow formed by the gelatine, t\iQjinest plas- ter, mixed to a thick cream with water, is next I’un and when the plaster has acquired the requisite hardness, the gelatine mould is de- tached in the same manner as from the original. I rom this apparently fragile mould as many as six copies may be taken, all reproducing the ] original with unei'ring fidelity. 1* 42), diluted with 1 part of water, and apply' ing heat till the effervescence ceases; on cool- ing, the acid is deposited, and may be col- lected upon a filter. Gum may be substituted for sugar of milk, but yields a less pure acid. Prop., Sfc. Mucic acid is a white, crystal- line powder; soluble in 66 parts of boiling watei’, and in oil of vitriol, to which it imparts a crimson colour. By dry distillation it yields PYEOMUCIC ACID, and other products; with the bases it forms salts, called mucates. MU’CILAGrE. Syn. Mucilago, L. An aqueous solution of gum, or other like sub- stance, that gives a considerable consistency to water. See Decoction, Mixtuee, &c. Trag'acanth Mucilage. Syn. Mucilago TEAGACANTH.E (Ph. E., and Pli. 1). 1826), L. Prep. (Ph. E.) Tragacanth, 2 dr.; boiling water, 9 11. oz. (8 fi. oz.—Ph. D.); macerate for 24 hours, triturate, and press through linen. Used to make up pills, to sus- 1 See I’usiBLK Alloys, page 676. 59