1328 WATERS (MINERAL)—WATER-POX. 13. (P. Cod.) Extract of opium, 4 gr.; rose water) 4 fl. oz.; dissolve. In painful ophthalmia. WATERS (Min'eral). Syn, Saline WATERS; Aqe^ mineRaleS, L. Onr space will not permit a description of these individu- ally. The tables given on pages 1329-30, ex- hibiting their > composition, will, however, enable the reader, with a little attention, to produce .artificial waters more closely resembling the natural ones than can he done by adopting any of the numerous formulae published for the purpose. The ‘aerated waters ’ are charged with 5 or 6 - times their volume of carbonic acid gas, by means of the apparatus employed by the soda-water manu- facturers. On the small scale, the gas is often produced by the reaction of the ingredients on each other, in which case,' on the iiitro- duction of the latter, the bottle must be in- stantly closed-and inverted. Distilled water, or filtered rain water, should alone be em- ployed in their compositioil; and for Chaly- heated and sulphuretted waters,^ it should be first boiled, and allowed to cool out of contact with the air. In addition to the tables, it may be re- marked that traces of iodine have been found in the water of Cheltenham (old well), traces of bromine in the water of Epsom, and traces of both BROMINE and iodine in that of Leamington (royal pump). Manganese has been found in the waters of Tunbridge, Carls- bad, Spa^ Pgrmont, MaHenbad, Saidschiits, &c. Traces of phosphoric and flEoric acid have also been found in some mineral waters. It is the opinion of many high authorities that the medicinal virtues of these waiters depend more on the minute quantities of the above sub- stances, and the high state of dilution in which they are hMd; than on their more abun- dant saline ingredients. . / WATERS (Perfumed'). Syn. Aqjjm odo- RIFER.E, L. The simple distilled waters of the perfumer have been already noticed (see pages 1325-26). They may be prepared from any substance which imparts its fragrance to water by distillation. The compound' waters (Eaux) employed as. perfumes consist of very pure rectified spirit, holding in solution essential oils, or other odorous matter, and resemble the ESPRiTS, ESSENCES, and SPIRITS, before no- ticed. They differ from extraits in being mostly colourless, or nearly so, and in being generally prepared by distillation, or by the addition of the pure essential oils or essences to carefully rectified and perfectly scentless spirit; whereas the extraits are mostly and preferably prepared by macerating the flowers, &c., in the spirit, or by digesting the spirit with the oils, in the manner noticed iinder Spirits (Perfumed). Extraits are preferred to eaux and ESPRITS as the basis of good perfumery, where the colour is not objectionable. The following are a few additional formulae and remarks: — Angel Water, Portugal w. From orange- flower and rose water, of each, 1 pint; myrtle water, | pint; essence of ambergris, i fl. oz.; essence of rnusJc, fl. oz.; shake them well together for some hours, then Alter the mixture through paper. Eau d’Ange, Ft:; Aqua mtrtIj L. From myrtle fioivers, 3^ lb.; water, 2 gall.; distil a gallon. A-pleasant perfume. ’ Eau d^Ange boUillee, Fr. FTom rose water and oranye-fiOwer water, of each, 3 pints ; benzoin, \ lb.; storax, \ lb.; cinnamon, 1 oz. > cloves, ^ oz. ; 3 fresh-emptied musk bags i digest in'a securely covered vessel, at nearly the boiling heat, for 2 houT^, then allow it to< cool; strain off the clear, press the remainder, and filter foT use. Yery fra- grant: - Eau d’Ange dIstillAe, Fr. -From, ben- zoin, 4 oz. ; storax, 2 oi.; dotes, ^ oZ.; cala- mus aud cinnamon, ^ of each, ^ oz.; coriander seeds, 1 dr.’; (all bruised j) water, 3 quarts; distil 2 quarts. Eau d?Ange distill4e et mus- quee iS made by adding a little essence of musk to the distilled product. Both are highly fragrant. ' Eau de NaEhre, Eau le naphe, Fr.; Aqua naph.e, L. This article is distilled in Languedoc from the leaves of the bigarade, or bitter-orange tree, but the preparation sold in England under this name is often prepared as followsflowers, *1 lb.) fresh yellow peel of the bigarade or Seville orange, ^ lb. ; water, 2 gall.; macerate 24 hours,' and distil 1 gall.’ In many cases ordinary orange-flower water is sold for eau de naphe. Rose Water. From otto of roheS, 3 dr.; rectified spirit (warm), 1 pint; dissolve, add of hot water, 10 gall. • mix in a 12-gallon carboy, cork, and well agitate the whole until quite cold. This makes the ordinary rose water of the shops, and is really excellent, but it is better for distillation. See Waters (Distilled). Unparalleled Water; Eau incompara- ble, Fr. From oil of lemon, 4 dr.; oil of ber- gamot, 2^ dr.; oil of cedrat, 2 dr.; rectified spirit, 3f pints; Hungary water, ^ pint; mix, and distil all but 9 oz. (Guibourt.) WATER BRASH. See Pyrosis. WATER-COLOUR CAKES. These are pre- pared from any of the ordinary pigments that work well in water, made into a stijf and perfectly Smooth paste with gum water, or isinglass size, or a rhixture of the two, and then compressed in polished steel moulds, and dried. See PainYing, and the respective pigments. WATER CRESS. The Nasturtium officinale, a well-known plant of the natural order Cruciferce. It is alterative and antiscorbutic, and was formerly used in medicine, but now chiefly as a salad, or a refreshing relish at breakfast. WATER-POX. See Chicken-pox {page 1138).