675 FUNNEL—FURNISHING. organic substances, and nourished through their vegetative structure called the ‘ spawn’ or ‘mycelium.’ Fungi have very variable properties. Some are medicinal, others edible, others are deadly poisons. The various diseases of plants known as UigM, mildew, rust, smut, vine-mildew,potato-disease, ergot, ko., are either caused by or accelerated by the agency of ! fungi. See Agaeic, Musheoom, &c. FUNNEL. See Filteation. FURPUR'INE. A remarkable organic com- pound discovered by Fownes. It is prepared by boiling fuefueolamide in a dilute solution of caustic potassa. The liquid deposits fur- furine, on cooling, under the form of small, white, silky needles. Prop., Sfc. Scarcely soluble in cold water; soluble in 135 parts of boiling water; freely soluble in both alcohol and ether; inflam- 1 mable; reaction strongly alkaline; it is pow- erfully basic; with the acids it forms a series of beautiful crystallizable salts, which are in- tensely bitter. This substance is “ the nearest approach to the native alkaloids yet made.” Fuctjsine is obtained from the fuci by a like process. PURFURO'LAMIDE. A yellowish-white, crystalline, insoluble substance, formed by act- ing on FUEFUEOLE, for some hours with liquor of ammonia. Water decomposes it slowly, and acids instantly. FURPUR'OLE. Prep. (Fownes.) Sulphuric acid, diluted with an equal bulk of water, is carefully mixed with twice its weight of wheat- bran, and the adhesive pasty mass thus ob- tained is exposed, in a proper vessel, to the action of a current of steam, which is after- wards condensed by a worm and refrigerator; ™ the distillate holds furfurole in solution. By redistillation several times repeated, the first half of the liquor only being collected, it may be extracted from the water, and then by caution, rectification may be obtained in a state of purity. The product is much in- creased by first depriving the bran of soluble matter by steeping it in a dilute solution of caustic potassa, and then washing it with cold water and drying it in the sun or by a gentle heat. Prop.,8fc. In appearance and odour, it greatly resembles oil of cassia; it distils unchanged; dissolves in all proportions in alcohol, and to some extent in water; it boils at 325° Fahr.; strong acids and alkalies decompose it. Sp. gr. 1-165. Fucosol is obtained by a like process from the fuci. I FURNACE. An inclosed fireplace for ob- I taining a high degree of heat. Furnaces vary much in construction and size, according to the particular manufacture in which they are [ employed. They may be broadly divided into I two classes—wind-fuenaces and blast-fue- ' naces. In the former a high temperature is I produced without the aid of bellows by means . of a powerful ‘ draught.’ In the latter heated ^ air is blown in through a pipe or pipes at the bottom. For many metallurgic and large chemical operations eeveebeeatoet fuenaces are employed. A furnace of this kind is usu- ally long, with a low roof to keep down the flame and hot air upon the ‘hearth’ or space between the fireplace and the flue.^ For the smaller operations in chemistry, a variety of furnaces have been invented, and the introduc- tion of coal gas as a fuel by Deville, Griffin, Gore, and others, has wrought a complete change in the arrangements of the laboratory. The GAS-FUENACES of Mr. J. J. Griffin are adapted for almost every operation performed by the aid of heat. Those more recently in- troduced by Mr. W. Gore are very compact and portable, and will rapidly produce a ‘ white heat,’ without the help of bellows or high chimney, by means of ordinary coal gas and atmospheric air. The first and smallest size consumes 33 cubic feet of gas (value seven farthings) per hour, and is suitable for assayers, jewellers, analytical chemists, experimentalists, dentists, and others. It is capable of fusing eight ounces of copper or six ounces of cast iron; copper begins to melt in it in about twelve minutes from the time of lighting. The second-sized one consumes about twice that quantity of gas, is suitable for manufac- turing jewellers generally, and for a great va- riety of practical persons who require to melt small quantities of gold, silver, copper, german silver, brass, cast iron, glass, and other sub- stances, or require a small crucible heated to high temperatures. It is capable of melting 45 ounces of copper, or 40 ounces of cast iron, and with its heat up it melts one pound of copper in eight minutes; copper begins to melt in about twenty minutes from the time of lighting. See Assaying, Chimneys, Cof- fee, Cettcible, Fuel, &c. FURNISHING. It is essential for the sake of neatness, and for a pleasing efleet to the eye, that there should be a harmony of colours, and also a similarity of style, in the main arti- cles of furniture. The tints of the carpet, of the paper or paint of the walls, and of the window-curtains, should be all in harmony in each room; that is, either possess a general resemblance of colour, or various colours in pleasing contrast and harmony with each other. If the preponderating colour of the curtains is scarlet, and the colour of the walls or carpet blue, a most inharmonious and unpleasing effect is produced; but brown and green, or green and gold, will be in harmony, and may there- fore be placed together. Carpets being the most expensive articles, it is safest to buy them first, and then to let their colour guide us in the tone and style of the curtains, paper- hangings, chair-covers, hearth-rugs, and the various minor articles. It is also economical to buy carpets of the same pattern for several rooms, because in the event of removal to a house with difterent sized apartments, a piece 1 For an illustration of tliis kind of furnace, see Soda (Carbonate).