1213 SOILS. j:AS (Ph. E.), L. This important and whole- [nie compound appears to have been known . the earliest ages of which we have any [cord. It is mentioned by Moses (Gen. xix, 5), and by Homer in the Iliad (lib. ix, 214). ji ancient Rome it was subjected to a duty \ectigal salinarium); and, even at the present jiy, a similar tax furnishes no inconsiderable Drtion of the revenue of certain nations, 'ommon salt forms no small portion of the jineral wealth of England, and has become an (iportant article of commerce in every part of lie known world. The principal portion of tie salt consumed in this country is procured y the evaporation of the water of brine brings. It is also prepared by the evapo- [itionof sea-water (hence the term ‘sea-salt’), lat this process has been almost abandoned in ! ngland, being more suited to hot dry climates jr to very cold ones. j Var.—Bat salt ; sal maeinus, sal nigee ; nported from France, Portugal, and Spain, jad obtained from sea-water evaporated in lallow ponds by the sun; large-grained and ark-coloured.—Beitish bat salt, Cheshiee AEGE-GEAINED s. j by evaporating native rine at a heat of 130° to 140° Fahr.; hard labical crystals. Both of the above are used |d salt provisions for hot climates, as they dis- blve very slowly in the brine as it grows Weaker. Cheshiee stoved salt, lump s., ASSET s.; obtained by evaporating the brine if salt springs; small flaky crystals.—London’s ATENT SOLID SALT; Cheshire rock salt, melted nd ladled into moulds.—Rock salt, fossil .; SAL GEMM^, SAL FOSSILIS; found in lineral beds in Cheshire; has commonly a eddish colour; chiefly exported for purifi- jation. I Frop. Pure chloride of sodium is flxed in he air; crystallizes in anhydrous cubes, which [re often grouped into pyramids or steps; j.issolves in about 2^ parts of water at 60° I’ahr.; its solubility is not increased by heat; t is slightly soluble in proof spirit; insoluble In alcohol; decrepitates when heated; fuses at red heat, and volatilizes at a much higher emperature. Vur., ?3fc. The common salt of commerce ontains small portions of chloride of mag- mium, chloride of calcium, and sulphate of )'me; and hence has commonly a slightly [)itter taste, and deliquesces in the air. To eparate these, dissolve the salt in 4 times its ]veight of pure water, and drop into the fll- ered solution, first, chloride of barium, and hen carbonate of soda, as long as any precipi- tate falls; filter, and evaporate the clear fluid rery slowly, until the salt crystallizes, which is pure chloride of sodium. (‘Thomson’s Chem.,’ ii, p77.) For medical purposes, the Ph. E. orders the salt to be dissolved in boiling water, and the lolution to be filtered and evaporatt;d over the lire, skimming off“ the crystals as they form, [vhich must then be quickly washed in cold ^oater, and dried. “ A solution of pure salt is not precipitated by a solution of car- bonate of ammonia, followed by a solution of phosphate of soda; a solution of 9 gr. in distilled water is not entirely precipitated by a solution of 26 gr. of nitrate of silver.” (Ph. E.) Uses. Common salt is stimulant, anti- septic, and vermifuge, and is hence em- ployed as a condiment, and for preserving ani- mal and vegetable substances. It is also oc- casionally used in medicine, in clysters and lotions. I'odide of Sodium. Syn. Sodii iodidum, SODJE HTDEIODASf, L. As IODIDE OF POTAS- SIUM. This, as well as beomide of sodium, crystallizes in cubes, is very deliquescent, and very soluble in water. Sul'phuret of Sodium. Syn. Sulphide of SODIUM. Prepared in the same manner as PEOTOSULPHUEET OF POTASSIUM. It is ra- pidly decomposed by contact with the air. It is supposed to enter into the composition of the beautiful pigment ulteamaeine. SOILS. These are classified by agriculturists according to their chief ingredients; as loamy, clayey, sandy, chalky, and soils. Of these the first is the best for most purposes, but the others may be improved by the addition of the mineral constituents of which they are de- ficient. Sand and lime or chalk are the proper additions to CLATET soils, and clay, gypsum, or loam, to sandt and geavellt ones. Clayey soils are expensive to bring into a fertile state; but when this is once effected, and they are well manured, they yield immense crops of wheat, oats, beans, clover, and most fruits and flowers of the rosaceous kinds. The fertilization of soils is suggested partly by chemical analysis, practical experience, and geological observations. In cases where a barren soil is examined with a view to its improvement, it is, when possible, compared with an extremely fertile soil in the same neighbourhood, and in a similar situation; the difference given by their analyses indicates the nature of the manure required, and the most judicious methods of cultivation ; and thus a plan of improvement is suggested, founded upon scientific principles. The analysis of soils may be briefly and generally described as follows:— 1. The general character of the soil, as loamy, sandy, stoney, rather stoney, &c., being noted, 3 or 4 lb. of it, fairly selected as an average specimen, may be taken during a period of ordinary dry weather. From this, after crushing or bruising the lumps with a piece of wood, all stones of a larger size than that of a filbert may be picked out, and their proportion to the whole quantity duly registered. 2. 1000 gr. of the remainder may be next dried by the heat of boiling water, until the mass ceases to lose weight; and, afterwards, exposed to a moist atmosphere for some time. The loss of weight in the first case, and the in-