RAISINS—RASPBERRY. 1162 cultural purposes, with its edge as nearly level with the ground as possible. The quantity of water should be duly measured and registered at 9 a.m., daily. RAI'SINS. Syn. Deied geapes ; UviE SICCAT^, UVA (Ph. L.), Uv.® PASS^ (Ph. E. & D.), L. “ The prepared fruit of Vids vini- fera” (Linn.)—Ph. L. The grapes are allowed to ripen and dry on the vine. After being plucked and cleaned, they are dipped, for a few seconds, into a boiling lye of wood ashes and quicklime at 12° or 15° Bauine, to every 4 gall, of which a handful of culinary salt and a pint of salad oil has been added; they are then exposed for 12 or 14 days in the sun to dry; they are, lastly, carefully garbled, and packed for exportation. The sweet, fleshy kinds of grapes are those selected for the above treatment; and, in general, their stalks are cut about one half through, or a ring of bark is removed, to hasten their maturation. Raisins are nutritious, cooling, antiseptic, and, in general, laxative; the latter to a greater extent than the fresh fruit. There are many varieties found in commerce. Their uses as a dessert and culinary fruit, and in the manu- facture of wine, &c., are well known, and are referred to elsewhere. See Geapes, Wines, &c. RANCIDITY. The strong, sour flavour and odour which oleaginous bodies acquire by age and exposure to the air. For its pre- vention, see Fats, Oils (Fixed), &c. RAPE OIL. See Oils (Fixed). RASH. In pathology, a term properly limited to that state of inflammation of the skin in which the inflammatory action does not proceed beyond its more simple and primary signs, namely, redness, heat, swelling, and pain.” (Eras. Wilson.) The above authority notices four different affections, as included under this head :— 1. St. Anthony’s eiee, or eeysipelas, the severest of them all, already referred to. (See page 575.) 2. Nettle-EASH, or heticaeia, characterised by its tingling and pricking pain, and its little white elevations on a reddish ground, like the wheals caused by the sting of a nettle. This efflorescence seldom stays many hours, and, sometimes, not even many minutes, in the same place, and is multiplied or reproduced when- ever any part of the skin is scratched or even touched. No part of the body is exempt from it, and when many of them occur together, and continue for an hour or two, the parts are often considerably swelled, and the features temporarily disfigured. In many cases these eruptions continue to infest the skin, some- times in one place, and sometimes in another, for one or two hours together, two or three times a day, or, perhaps, for the greatest part of the twenty-four hours. In some constitu- tions this lasts only a few days; in others several months. There are several varieties of nettle-rash or urticaria noticed by medical writers, among which TTETICAEIA EEBEILIS, PEESISTANS, and EVANIDA, are the principal. The common cause of nettle-rash is some derangement of the digestive functions, aris- ing either from the use of improper food or a disordered state of the nervous or other sys- tems of the body. Lobsters, crabs, mussels,, shrimps, dried fish, pork, cucumbers, mush- rooms, and adulterated beer or porter, bear the character of frequently causing this affec- tion. In childhood, it commonly arises from teething. Occasionally, in persons of peculiar idiosyncrasy, the most simple articles of food, as almonds, nuts, and even milk, rice, and eggs, will produce this affection. The treatment may consist of the adminis- tration of gentle saline aperients, and in severe: cases a gentle emetic, followed by the copiom use of acidulated diluent drinks, as weak lemon juice-and-water, effervescing potassa-draughts &c., and, when required, diaphoretics. Th( clothing should be light, but warm, and th( itching, when severe, may be allayed by th( application of a lotion of water to which i little vinegar or camphorated spirit has beer added; the latter must, however, be employee with caution. A hot knee-bath is useful ii drawing the affection from the face and uppeii part of the body. A ‘ compress,’ wrung out o cold water until it ceases to drip, and kept ii contact with the stomach by means of a dr; bandage, has been recommended to relieve ex cessive irritation of the stomach and bowels It has been stated that decoction of Virginia) snake-root is particularly useful in relievinj chronic urticaria. 3. Red-eash, eed-blotch, or eieey spoi is commonly the consequence of disorderei general health, of dyspepsia, and particularly in females, of tight lacing. Sometimes it i slight and evanescent; at others, it approache in severity to the milder forms of erysipelaf there being much swelling and infiammatior Chaps, galls, excoriations, and chilblains, ar varieties of this disease produced by cold, ex cessive moisture, or friction. The treatmen is similar to that of nettle-rash. 4. Rose-eash, ealse measles, or EOSEOL.*' is an efflorescence, or rather a discoloration, ( a rose-red tint, in small irregular patche without wheals or papulae, which spread ovi the surface of the body, and are ushered in b slight febrile symptoms. There are sever; varieties. The causes are the same as thos which produce the preceding affections, an the treatment may be similar. In all of thci strict attention to the diet, and a careful avoi( ance of cold applications, or exposure to cob' so as to cause a retrocession, are matters i the first moment. RASP'BERRY. Syn. Hindbeeey. T1 fruit of Rubus ideeus (Linn.), a small shni^ of the natural order RosacecB. It is coolinj antiscorbutic, and mildly aperitive. It is quently used to communicate a fine flavour 1;