682 i GARLIC—GAZOGENE. Gargle of Zinc. Syu. GAEaAEis^nA zinci, G. z. siJLPHATis, L. Pr^. (Dr. Copland.) Sulphate of zinc, 20 gr.; oxymel, 1 fl. oz.; rose water, 7 11. oz. In aphthous sores, relaxations, ulceration of the tonsils, &c. GAR'LIC. Syn. Allium, L. The Allium sativum of botanists. It is diaphoret^ diu- retic, expectorant, stimulant, and tonic; and externally, irritant, rubefacient, and even vesicant. Bose. ^ dr. to dr.; in enfeebled digestion, chronic diarrho3a, old chronic coughs, atonic dropsies, and worms. ^ An antispas- modic and counter irritant liniment is made of the juice, which was formerly esteemed in chest diseases and infantile convulsions. A small" clove" of garlic, or a fe\y drops of the juice, was formerly introduced into the ear in certain forms of deafness. As a condiment, its properties resemble those of the onion, than v/hich it is much more powerful. GAR'NET. In mineralogy, one of the pre- cious stones or gems. The finest specimens of ‘ noble garnet" (Syrian or Oriental garnet) are brought from Pegu. According to chemi- cal analysis, the garnet is a double silicate of alumina and lime, coloured with iron and manganese. Facti"tious Garnet. See Pastes. GA'RUM. [L.] A species of pickle or sauce prepared of fish, in a state of incipient putrefaction, strongly salted, and seasoned with aromatics. According to Pliny, the Romans used a species of lobster for this purpose. GAS. Syn. Gaz, Pr. A permanently elastic aeriform fiuid. In English, the term ^ air’ is now usually restricted to the gaseous mix- ture forming the atmosphere, but it was for- merly used as a synonym for ‘ gas.’ The prin- cipal gases are the ‘elementary bodies" hy- drogen, chlorine, oxygen and nitrogen, and the compounds ammonia, carbonic acid, carbonic oxide, carburetted hydrogen, hydrochloric acid, phosphuretted hydrogen, protoxide of nitrogen, sulphuretted hydrogen, and sulphurous acid. See these substances under their respective heads. Gas. Syn. Coal gas. Illuminating g. The term ‘gas" is popularly applied to the important mixture of ‘hydro-carbons’ produced by the destructive distillation of PIT-coal, and now employed as a source of artificial light in most of large towns of Europe and America. The apparatus used in the manu- facture of gas on the large scale consists essentially of a system of closed retorts of cast iron or fire-clay, the ‘ exit pipes ’ from which communicate with an ‘hydraulic main,’ in which the crude gas deposits part of its tar and AAIMONIACAL-LIQUOE. It passcs theiice into a series of condensing pipes, wherein it deposits more of those impurities; and thence into another series of vessels, called ‘ scrubbers,’ in which its mechanical purification is completed. It is then deprived of its carbonic acid and sulphuretted hydrogen in ‘ lime-purifiers,’ and finally is drawn by exhausting apparatus into the gas-holders, passing on its way through beautiful and delicate apparatus, whereby the pressure and amount of gas are regulated and registered. The yield of gas, and also the illuminating power of the product, vary greatly with different kinds of coal. The average yield may be roughly estimated at 10,000 cubic feet of gas per ton of coal.^ The late Charles Mansfield proposed to in- crease the illuminating power of ordinary coal gas, and to render water gas or even atmo- spheric air luminiferous, by passing them through sponges or over trays containing mineral naphtha or benzole ; and a patent was taken out for this purpose. The gas so treated imbibes or dissolves a portion of the liquid, and burns with increased brilliancy. The method of saturating the gas with the liquid hydrocarbon is as follows:—“ The appa- ratus consists of a brass reservoir or chamber, attached to the end of the gas-pipe, near the burner. This reservoir may be in the shape of an oil-flask, made air-tight, with a screw- joint, or other means of supplying any highly volatile oil, turpentine, or mineral naphtha, and should be kept about half full. Into this reservoir the gas-pipe ascends a little above the surface of the oil; a very small jet-pipe of gas, regulated by a stop-cock, is branched off below this chamber, to supply a minute flame, so as to cause a sufficient evaporation from the oil to unite with the gas in the flask receiver. The whole is, of course, surmounted with the usual burner and lamp-glass.” The naphthalizing of gas did not work well on a large scale. Recently, however, an attempt was made to get up a company in England to W'ork a French patented process, which differed only from that of Mansfield’s in the substitution of another hydrocarbon (probably a petroleum product) for benzole. The chemical and technical journals exposed M. Mongruel’s invention, and prevented the sinking of capital in a worthless undertaking. On a small scale, simple ‘ naphthalizers’ appear to work very w'ell. The illuminating power of gas, as well as of other sources of light, may be directly ascer- tained by what is termed the ‘ comparison of shadows’ or indirectly, and more conveniently, by chemical analysis.'^ See Illumination. GAZ'OGENE. [Fr.] Syn. Aerating ma- chine. A portable apparatus for aerating water and other liquids. Many forms have been given to this instrument, but in all the principle is the same. Powders for generating carbonic acid gas are placed in a separate com- partment, and the liquid to be aerated in another. The two compartments are connected by a suitable tube, and a second tube, furnished with a spring tap, affords an exit for the 1 For piacticiil details respecting the manufacture of this product, see the ai’ticle Coal-gas in “ lire's Diction- ary of Arts, Blanufactures, * See “ IFatls’s Dictionary of Chemistry,” vol. i.