I DRENCHES—DROPS. 529 I care must be taken to deprive it of the whole I of the cream, as the latter substance would ; cause the drawing to look streaky. An easy I way of applying these fluids is to pour them I into a shallow vessel, and to lay the drawing ' flat upon the surface of the liquid; after which I it should be gently removed and placed on white blotting-paper, in an inclined position, to j drain and dry. I DRENCHES. Syn. Dkinks. In veterinary j practice, these terms are applied to liquid me- I dicines or mixtures which are administered to : horses and neat cattle, and chiefly to the latter. I A drench for a hoese should not be less than 1 half a pint, nor more than a quart; about a i pint is, perhaps, the best quantity; that for a cow or ox should measure about a quart, aiid not more than about 5 half-pints. See Vete- I EiNAEY Medicine. { DRES'SING. In the industrial arts, a pre- paration of gum, starch, size, &c., employed in stiftening or * finishing off^ textile fabrics and paper. In surgery, the term is appropriated 1 to any application to a wound or sore, made by i means of lint, linen, or leather. Simple dkes- siNG is simple cerate or spermaceti cerate. Among cooks, the staffing of fowls, pork, veal, i &c., is commonly called ‘ dressing.' i DRINKS (Summer). See Gingee Beee, Le- , MONADE, ShEEBET, &C. DROP. See Measuees. i DROPS (Confectionery). These are confec- I tions of which the principal basis is sugar. ; They differ from lozenges chiefly in the ingre- ! dients being combined by the aid of heat. ^ Occasionally, they are medicated. Prep. Double refined sugar is reduced to j powder, and passed through a hair sieve (not I too fine), and afterwards through a gauze sieve, to take out the fine dust, which would ! destroy the beauty of the drop. It is then I put into a clean pan, and moistened with any favorite aromatic, as rose or orange-flower ! water, added slowly, stirring it with a paddle all the time, from which the sugar will fall, as soon as it is moist enough, without sticking. The colouring (if any) is next added, in the liquid state, or in very fine powder. A small, polished copper, or tinned-copper pan, furnished with a lip, is now one half or three parts filled with the paste, and placed over the fire, or over the hole of a stove, or preferably on a sand bath, and the mixture stirred with a little bone or glass spatula until it becomes liquid. As soon as it almost boils, it is taken from the fire, and if it is too moist, a little more powdered sugar is added, and the whole stirred, until it is of such a consistence as to run without too much extension. A tin plate, very clean and smooth, and very slightly oiled, being now ready, the pan is taken in the left hand, and a bit of bright iron, copper, or silver wire, about 4 inches long, in the right. The melted sugar is next allowed to fall regularly on the tin plate, the wire being used to remove the drop from the lip of the pan. In two or three hours afterwards the drops are taken off with the blade of a knife, and are at once put into bottles or tins. On the large scale, ‘ con- fectionery drops’ are moulded by a raacbine consisting essentially of two metal rollers covered with hollows. A sheet of the warm and soft composition, on being passed between the rollers, is at once converted into a batch of symmetrical drops, the upper and lower halves being moulded by the corresponding hollows of the upper and lower rollers. See Can- dying, Confection, Essence, Stains (Con- fectioner’s), SuGAE Plums. The following are a few of the principal confectionery drops kept in the shops:— Acid'ulated Drops. Syn. Acid deops. Prep. Tartaric acid, ^ oz., dissolved in a very little water, is added to each lb. of sugar, as above; with essence of lemon, orange, or jargonelle pear, to flavour, as desired. Choc'olate Drops. Prep. Chocolate, 1 oz., is reduced to fine powder by scraping, and added to powdered white sugar, 1 lb. ; when the mix- ture is made into drops as above, care being taken to avoid heating it a second time. Coffee Drops. Prep. A clarified concen- trated infusion of coffee, 1 oz., is used for each lb. of sugar. Fruit Drops. These are prepared according to the general description. (See above.) The flavouring essences (volatile oils or essences of lemon, orange, citron, raspberry, jargonelle pear, &c.) not being added until the sugar is melted, to avoid, as much as possible, loss by evapora- tion. The colouring matter may be any of the transparent ‘ stains’ usually employed for cakes, jellies, and confectionery. In this way are made the majority of the first-class fruit drops and bon-bons of the sugar-bakers. In some cases the plan is varied by adding the clarified concentrated juice, or jelly of the fruit, to the sugar. One variety of raspberry and currant (red and black) drops are made in this way. Gin'ger Drops. Prep. From essence or tinc- ture of ginger, as above. An inferior kind is made in the way described under Gingee Candy. Jargonelle' Drops. Fruit drops flavoured with essence of jargonelle pear (solution of ACETATE OF AMYLE). Lem'on Drops. Acidulated drops flavoured with essence of lemon. They are usually stained with an infusion of turmeric. (See abovej) Pep'permint Drops. From the whitest re- fined sugar, flavoured with English oil of pep- permint or its spirituous solution (essence of peppermint), or with peppermint water. Rasp'berry Drops. See Feuit Deops (aJouc). DROPS (Medicated). Syn. Gutt^, L. This term is commonly applied to compound medi- cines that are only taken in small doses. At the present time they are almost exclusively confined to empirical and domestic medicine. The plan of directing liquids to be measured by dropping is objectionable, because the drops of 34