ANIMALISATION—ANISETTE. 174 of a single codfish is said to contain more of these minute animals than there are peopl^ in the whole earth.. Animalcula were first scien- tifically observed by Leuwenhoek, about the year 1677. Assisted by the microscope he unveiled, as it were, a new world for future naturalists and microscopists to explore. See Infusoeia, Miceoscope, &c. ANIMALISA'TION (-za'-). [Eng., Er.] Syn. AnIjVIAliza'tio, L. In physiology, the assi- milation or conversion of the nutritive portion of the food into living animal matter, by the vital functions. ANIMA'TION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Anima'tio, L. In physiology, the act of infusing life; the state of being animated; vitality. Suspend'ed Animation. See Asphyxia. ANTME (an'-im-e). [Eng., L.,. Sp.] Syn. Gum-an'ime, A.-ees'in ; Anime, Fr.; Anime- HAEZ, Kouebaeillhaez, Ger.; Coee- BAEIL, Jtjtaiba, Nat. A pale brownish- yellow, transparent, brittle resin, which exudes from the hymencea coiirharil (Linn.) or ‘ locust- tree,’ the h. martiana, and other species of hymensea growing in tropical America. It contains about -2^ of volatile oil, which gives it an agreeable odour; melts without decomposition; is (nearly) insoluble in alcohol and in caoutchoucine, but forms a gelatinous mass in a mixture of the two. (lire.) It burns readily, emitting a very fragrant smell. Sp. gr., 1’054 to 1'057. Uses, As a fumigation in spasmodic asthma; in solution, as an embrocation; and in 2)owder, as a substitute for gum guaiacum. In this country, it is chiefly employed to make varnishes and pastilles (which see). ANIMINE (-min). See Animal oil (Ethe- real). ANTON(-y’iin—Br.,We.; a-ni'-iin—Smart). Literally, 'upward going;’ in electro-chemistry, a substance which is evolved from the surface where the electrical current enters the electro- lyte ; an electro-negative body, or one which passes to the positive pole, or anode, in electro- lysis, as opposed to a cation. See Anode, Ions, &c. ANTSATED. Syn. Anisa'tus, L. ; Anise, Fr. In j)^^o.rmacy, the art of the liqoriste, confectioner, Sfc., applied to articles or prepa- rations impregnated or flavoured with aniseed. ANISE (-is). Syn. Ani'sum, Pimpinel'la A. (Linn.), A. opficina'le, L.; Anis, Fr.; Anis, Gemeinee Anis, Ger. An annual plant of the nat. ord., Unibellifera) (DC.) ; Hab., Egypt, Scio, and the Levant; but largely cultivated in IVIalta, Spain, Germany, and various other parts of Asia and Europe. “A considerable quantity is cultivated at Mitcham, in Surrey, chiefly for the use of the rectifiers of British Spirits.” (Stevenson.) Fruit, aniseed. (See below.) ANISEED. Syn. AnTse, An'ise-seed* ; Ani'sum (Ph. L., E. & D.), Sem'ina ani'si, Feuc'tus a., L.; Anis, A. teai, Geaines d’anis, Semence p’ani3, Fr. j Ani3, Ani^a- MEN, Ger.; Anis, Sp.; Anice, It. The aromatic fruit or seed of the pimpinella anisum just noticed. Hist., 8fc. It was early employed as an aro- matic and carminative. Pythagoras numbered it among his simples (b.c., 540). Hippocrates, the ‘father of medicine,’ included it in his materia medica (b.c., 425). It is the dviaov of Dioscorides (lib. iii, c. 65), is mentioned by Pliny in his “ Historia Naturalis ” (lib. xxx, c. 72), and is referred to in the Scriptures— “Ye pay tithe of mint, and anise,^ and cum- min” (Matth. xxiii, 23). In modern times its position, both as an aromatic and medicament, has been sustained by almost universal consent. Prop., uses, 8fc. Its aromatic properties depend on the presence of volatile oil. The seed and oil, and a spirit and a water prepared from them, are otficinal in the pharmacopoeias. Both the seed and its preparations are reputed stimulant, stomachic, carminative, pectoral, diuretic, and emmenagogue. They are com- monly used to relieve flatulence and colicky pains, and to prevent the griping effects of certain cathartics; and they have long been popular remedies for coughs, colds, and other breath ailments. They are esteemed especially useful in warming the stomach and expelling wind, particularly during infancy and child- hood ; the distilled or favoured water being usually employed. Nurses also take the latter to promote the secretion of milk, to which it at length imparts its peculiar odour and flavour. In veterinary practice, the powdered seed is used as a carminative, pectoral, and corroborant. The essential oil is said to be poisonous to pigeons. (Vogel; Hillefield.) Aniseed is principally used to flavour liqueurs, sweetmeats, and confectionary.—Dose (of the powder), 10 gr. to 1 or 2 dr.;—for a horse, ^ to 1 oz.;—cattle, f to 2 oz. Pur., S(c. Powdered aniseed is nearly always adulterated, the adulterant being generally linseed meal. Sometimes, as ‘horse powder,’ the latter is entirely substituted for it, a few drops of oil of aniseed being added to give it smell. The adulteration is not readily detect- ed by the uninitiated, owing to the strong- odour of aniseed; but readily by the microscope. The fruit of ‘ myrrhis odorata ’ (sweet cicily), and of ‘ illicium anisatum ’ (star-anise), also possess the odour and flavour of common aniseed; indeed most of the essential oil now sold as ‘ oil of aniseed,’ is star-anise oil. See Ll- QUEUES, Oils, Powdees,Spieits,Watees,&c. Star'-Anise. The fruit or seed of ilWcium anisa'tum (Linn.), an evergreen tree growing in Japan and China. The odour and proper- ties of both the seed and oil greatly resemble those of common anise. They are both em- ployed by the liqueuriste. See Aniseed (above), &c. ANISETTE' (an-iz-et'). [Fr.] Aniseed cordial. See Liqueues. 1 According to Dr. Pereii-a, tlie word anise occurs here instead of ‘dill.’ “Mat, Med. ^ Therap.,” 4th ed., iii, 162.