CITRIC ACID. 455 I lime, 90 parts, are then added for every 192 i parts of citric acid contained in the liquor, I and the whole stirred well together; heat is 1 next applied, and the ammonia distilled into 1 another quantity of lemon juice; the citrate I of lime thus obtained is then decomposed with I dilute sulphuric acid, and the whole process I conducted as before. When potassa or soda are used, the distillation is omitted, and the I expressed liquor, after filtration, used to de- I compose fresh lemon juice. \ 7. (Ordinary manufacturing process.) To I crude lime juice, mixed with water, is added ground chalk; the precipitate is washed to free it from the impurities dissolved in the water, and afterwards decomposed by sul- phuric acid. If the citric acid is not suffi- ' ciently white, it is decolorized by digestion with animal black. I Ohs. If the lemon or lime juice be allowed I to ferment a short time, the mucilage and i other impurities will, to a certain extent, sepa- rate and subside. See Concluding Remarks. I Prop., Uses, Sfc. Citric acid forms rhom- I boidal prisms, which are clear, colourless, odourless, sour, and deliquescent in a moist I atmosphere. It is an agreeable acid, at once I cooling and antiseptic. It is much used in j medicine as a substitute for lemon juice, and to form effervescing draughts, citrates, &c. I 20 gr. commercial citric acid, in crystals, or j 5 fl. dr, of lemon juice, > I are equivalent to I, . , I 29 gr. crystals of bicarbonate of potassa ; 24 „ commercial carbonate of potassa ; 17 „ sesquicarbonate of ammonia ; 41 „ crystals of carbonate of soda ; I 24 „ commercial sesquicarbonate of soda. I The bicarbonate of potassa is that generally I preferred for making saline draughts with I citric acid; and when flavoured with a little I tincture of orange peel and simple syrup, or j syrup of orange peel alone, it forms a most delicious effervescing beverage. Citric acid in pure crystals or in lime juice is much used by the calico-printer, being the best known ‘ resistant ^ for iron and alumina mordants, i Pur. Citric acid is frequently met with adulterated with taetaeic acid ; the fraud is easily detected by dissolving the acid in a little cold water, and adding to the solution a small quantity of acetate of potassa. If tar- taric acid be present, a white, crystalline pre- I cipitate of cream of tartar will be produced on I agitation. When pure, it is “ devoid of colour, i is entirely, or almost entirely, decomposed I by heat. It is soluble in water and in spirit, and what is thrown down from its watery I solution, by acetate of lead, is dissolved by ! nitric acid. No salt of potassa precipitates j anything with citric acid except the tartrate. I Added sparingly to cold lime-water, it does ! not render it turbid. 100 gr., dissolved in 1 water, are saturated by 205’7 (205|) gr. of crystallized carbonate of soda.’* (Ph. L.) “ When a few drops of a solution of citric acid are added to lime water, a clear liquid results, which, when heated, deposits a white powder, soluble in acids without effervescence.” (Liebig.) By the action of nitric acid, citric acid is converted into oxalic acid. Estim. See Acidimetet and LiME JtriCE. Tests. See above, and Citeates. Concluding Remarks. The preparation of citric acid has now become an important branch of chemical manufacture, from the large consumption of this article in various operations in the arts. In conducting the different steps of the process, some little expertness and care are, however, necessary to ensure success. The chalk employed, which should be dry, and in fine powder, is added to thefuice, from a weighed sample, until the latter is perfectly neutralized, and the quantity consumed is exactly noted. The precipitated citrate of lime is next thoroughly washed with water, and the sulphuric acid, diluted with 6 or 8 times its weight of water, whilst still warm, is poured upon it, and thoroughly mixed with it. The agitation is occasionally renewed for 8 or 10 hours or longer, when the solution of citric acid is poured off, and the residuum of sulphate of lime thoroughly washed with warm water, the washings being added to the liquid acid. This last is then poured off from the impurities that may have been deposited, and evaporated in a leaden boiler, over the naked fire, or by high-pressure steam, until it acquires the gravity of 1*13, when the process is continued, at a lower temperature, until a syrupy aspect is assumed, and a pellicle appears on the surface of the liquor. Without great care at this part of the process, the whole batch may be carbonized and spoiled. At this point the concentrated solution is emptied into warm and clean crys- tallizing vessels, set in a dry apartment, where the thermometer does not fall below tem- perate. At the end of 4 days the crystals are found ready for removal from the pans. They are thoroughly drained, redissolved in as little water as possible, and after being allowed to stand for a few hours to deposit impurities, again evaporated and crystallized. The acid of the second crystallization is usually sufficiently pure for the market; when this is not the case, a third or even a fourth crystallization must be had recourse to. The mother-liquors from the several pans are now collected together, and a second or third crop of crystals obtained from them, by evapo- ration, as before. A frequent cause of difficulty in obtaining crystals from the solutions, is the employment of too little sulphuric acid to decompose the whole of the citrate of lime; the consequence of which is, that a little of that salt is taken up by the free citric acid, and materially obstructs the crystallization. 40 parts of dry sulphuric acid are required to decompose 50