V93 IRON. in hydrochloric acid, evaporate and crystallize. Soluble, green crystals. In this form it is sometimes called hydrated chloride of iron (ferri chloridum hydratum). 2. Sesquichlo"ride of Iron. Syn. Peechlo- EIDE OF lEON, PeEMTTEIATE OF I. ; FeEEI SESQUICHLOEIDTJM, L. Prep. 1. (Anhydrous.) By passing dry chlorine over heated iron filings. Brown scales. 2. (Hydrated.) Dissolve sesquioxide or rust of iron in hydrochloric acid, evaporate to the consistence of a syrup, and crystallize. Yellow or red scaly crystals. The impure solution of this salt has been greatly used as a sewage deodorizer. See Tinctuee. Cit'rates of Iron. Of these preparations, first introduced into medicine by M. Beral in 1831, the citrate of the sesquioxide is most commonly used. 1. Protocit'rate of Iron. Syn. Peeeotjs ci- TEATE, CiTEATE OF PEOTOXIDE OF lEON. This salt is easily formed by digesting iron filings or wire with citric acid, and evaporating the solution as quickly as possible out of contact with the air. It presents the appearance of a white powder, nearly insoluble in water, and rapidly passing to a higher state of oxidation by exposure to the air. Its taste is very me- tallic. It is exhibited under the form of pills, mixed with gum or syrup, to prevent it from being prematurely decomposed. 2. Proto-sesquicit'rate of Iron. Syn. Ci- TEATE OF MAGKETic OXIDE OF lEOX. Pre- pared from the magnetic oxide of iron, in the same way as the sesquiciteate from the SESQUIOXIDE. It may be formed into beauti- ful transparent scales, or lamellae, in a similar manner to the ammonio-citrate. Its solution is of a lively green colour, permanent in the air, and possesses an intensely ferruginous taste. I For this reason it can only be exhibited under the form of pills or syrup. Obs. This so-called ‘citrate of magnetic oxide of iron’ is probably a mixture of two citrates. The magnetic oxide is incapable of forming salts. 3. Sesquicit'rate of Iron. Syn. Feeeic CITEATE, PeECITEATE OF lEON, CiTEATE OF SESQUIOXIDE OF I., CiTEATE OF I. ; FeEEI CITEAS (Ph. U. S.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. U. S.) By saturating a solu- tion of citric acid in an equal weight of water with freshly precipitated moist hydrated sesqui- oxide of iron, evaporating at 150° Fahr. to the consistence of a syrup, and spreading on glass plates to dry. 2. Byeitherof the methods adopted for the am- MONio-CiTEATE, merely omitting the addition of the ammonia. It much resembles the ammonio- citrate, but is only slightly soluble in water, and has a rather less agreeable taste. Bose. 3 to 5 gr. Ferricy'anide of Iron. Syn. Feeeidctanide OF lEON. Prep. By adding a solution of fer- ricyanide of potassium (‘ red prussiate of pot- ash’) to a solution of protosulphate of iron (or any other soluble protosalt), and collecting and drying the precipitate. A bright-blue powder. (See Tuenbull’s Blue.) Ferrocy'anide of Iron. Syn. Sesquifeeeo- cyanide of lEON, Peectaxide of I.*, Feeeo- PEUSSIATE OF I.*, PeUSSIAN BLUE; FeEEI FEEEOCYANIDUM, F. SESQUIFEEEOCYAXIDUM, F. Feeeocyaxueetum (Ph. U. S.), F. pee- CYANIDUM*=, L. Prep. (Ph. TJ. S.) Sulphate of iron, 4 oz.; water, 1 pint; dissolve, add to the solution nitric acid, 6 fl. dr., in small por- tions at a time, boiling for a few moments after each addition ; next dissolveferrocyanide of potassium, 4| oz., in water, 1 pint, and add this last solution, by degrees, to the first liquid, stirring well each time; lastly, collect the precipitate, wash it with boiling water, drain, and dry it. Dose. 3 to 5 gr., three or four times daily, as an alterative, febrifuge, and tonic, gradually increasing the quantity until some obvious effect is produced; in agues, epilepsy, and neuralgia. See Peussian Blue. I'odides of Iron. With iodine iron forms two compounds, corresponding with the two chlorides:— 1. Proti'odide of Iron. Syn. Iodide of lEON, Feeeous iodide, Iodueet of I.*, Hy- DEIODATE OF I.*; F. lODIDUM (Ph. E. & D.), Feeei hydeiodas, F. iodueetum, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Iodine, 6 oz.; iron filings, 2 oz.; water, 4|^ pints; mix, boil in a sand bath until the liquid turns to a pale green, filter, wash the -residuum with a little water, evaporate the mixed liquors in an iron vessel at 212° Fahr. to dryness, and immediately put the iodide into well-stoppered bottles. The Ph. L. 1851 only gives a form for the ‘ syrup of iodide of iron.’ 2. (Ph. E.) As the last nearly, but the solution is not to be filtered until evaporated to ^th, without removing the excess of iron, and then, as quickly as possible and at once, put into a basin, surrounded with 12 times its weight of quicklime, and placed in some con- venient apparatus in which it may be accu- rately shut in a small space not communicating with the general atmosphere; the whole is then heated in a hot-air press, in a stove or otherwise, until the water is entirely evapo- rated, when the oxide of iron is to be put into small, dry, stoppered phials. “ Of the Phar- macopceia preparations, that of the Ph. E. is preferable.” (Royle.) 3. (Ph. D.) Iodine, 1 oz., and clean iron filings or turnings, ^ oz., are put into a Florence flask with distilled water, 4 fl. oz., and having applied a gentle heat for 10 mi- nutes, the liquid is boiled until it loses its red colour ; it is then at once filtered into a second ’flask, the filter washed with water, 1 fl. oz., and the mixed liquid is boiled down, until it solidifies bn cooling. 4. (M. Kop.) Iodine, 4 parts, is triturated with water, 2 parts, in a large shallow dish or capsule, and iron filings (in a state of fine di-