ALCOHOL. 59 Sonrcps, c^‘c. Dilute alcohol may be pro- !i cured, by the ordinary process of distillation, • | from all fermented liquors. When drawn from wine (as in France), it constitutes I BKANDY; when from the juice of the sugar- I cane and the refuse of sugar-works, it is called I RUM; when from malt, grain, or molasses (as I in England), it is called malt, corn or grain, or MOLASSES SPIRIT; and when from rice I or palm-wine, ARRACK ; and these, by slight I variations of the process, or by the addition of j flavouring ingredients, furnish all the spiritu- ■ ous liquors known in European commerce. Brandy, rum, Hollands, and whiskey, contain j only about half their volume of alcohol; and I gin, much less. Dilute alcohol of this kind ! contains, besides water, variable quantities of ' essential oils, ethers, acetic acid, and other j flavouring matters, which, by one or more re- distillations with charcoal, lime, or other like substances, it for the most part loses, and then I becomes commercial spirit of wine. By fur- ther rectification from chloride o f calcium, lime, carbonate of potassa, or some other substance, which has a strong affinity for water, this last is retained, and the spirit passes over nearly j pure. It is now called alcohol. By repeat- I ing the process, and using the proper precau- I tions, it may be obtained entirely free from I water, and is then called absolute or anhy- i DROUS ALCOHOL. The flavour, aroma, &c., j which form the characteristics and give value I to the spirits of commerce, become impurities <\ when present, even in very small quantities, in -I the alcohol of the chemist. The object of the I processes described below, is their elimination, j Prep. 1. Absolute alcohol :— a. Alcohol (highly rectified spirit), of 85g to 90^ (sp. gr., *835 to *822), is mixed, in a tubulated retort, with about half its weight of fresh-burnt quick-lime, in coarse powder; and the whole, after securely stopping the neck with a cork, and agitation, is allowed to repose for several days. The alcohol is then carefully distilled off, drop by drop, by the heat of a water-bath, until the weight of the distillate nearly equals that of the ‘ anhydrous alcohol' in the spirit operated on. The sp. gr. of the product should be ’795 or ’796; but by care- fully repeating the process with the distillate and a fresh quantity of lime, and prolonging the last digestion with the latter for several weeks, absolute alcohol of the sp. gr. •79381 at 60° Fahr. may be easily obtained. b. (Drinkwater; Fownes.) The strongest rectified spirit of wine is digested in a stop- pered bottle for several days, with about half its weight of anhydrous carbonate of potassa, in powder, frequent agitation being had re- course to; the alcohol, after repose, is then decanted, and treated with fresh-burnt quick- lime (from marble), as before.^ * Mr. Drinkwater employs snfricicnt quick-lime to ab- sorb the whole of the spirit, and continues the diges- tion for at least 48 hours before distillation. Proc. Chem. Soc.f iii, 447.) c. (Graham.) Alcohol of 90g is placed under the exhausted receiver of an air-pump, and sur- rounded with fresh-burnt quick-lime, in small fragments; and the vacuum is well kept up for 5 or 6 days, by which time the spirit is found to have entirely lost its water. The best means of operating is to use two shallow circular vessels, of different sizes, and to place the one containing the spirit in the other holding the lime, care being taken to prevent the lime, as it swells, falling over the side of the smaller vessel into the spirit. The quan- tity of the lime should not exceed thrice the weight of the ‘ alcohol; ’ as about ^th of the alcohol is absorbed by the lime during the process. Part of this may, however, be re- covered by distillation. d. (Liebig; Ure.) Alcohol, or rectified spirit, of about 90^, is saturated with fused chloride of calcium, in powder, and after repose for a few hours in a stoppered bottle, is submitted to distillation, as before. The product should nearly equal the quantity of dry alcohol in the sample. Ure recommends ejwa/weights of the spirit and chloride to be taken; and the pro- cess to be stopped as soon as about half the volume of the spirit employed has passed over, or the distillate acquires a higher sp. gr. than -791 at 68°, or *796 at 60° Fahr. e. (Ph. E. 1841.) Take of rectified spirit, 1 pint; quick-lime (crushed small), 18 oz.; mix, expose to a gentle heat in a closed glass matrass, till the lime begins to slake; then withdraw the heat, and keep the upper part of the vessel cool with damp cloths until the slaking of the lime is finished; lastly, attach a proper refrigeratory, and with a gentle and increased heat draw off 17 fi. oz. The sp. gr. of the product should be 0-796, in which case it would be nearly free from water. Should the density exceed 0*796, the College states that the distillation must have been begun before the slaking of the lime was complete. /. (Ph. D. 1850.) Take of stronger spirit (‘ spiritus fortior,’ Ph. D.; sp. gr. *818), 1 pint; pulverised fresh-burnt lime, 10 oz.; proceed as last, using a “ chloride of zinc bath and a Liebig’s condenser.” Wlien the liquid which first comes over, together with that obtained during the slaking, measures two ouncesit must be rejected, the receiver changed, and the distillation continued until a product of nearly sixteen ounces is procured,” of the “ sp. gr. -795.” g. (Poggendorff.) Saturate the strongest rectified spirit of wine with dry potassa, add about half its volume of water, and gently distil off* the alcohol. h. (Liebig.*) By submitting the spirit used in the preparation of caustic potassa to di.stil- lation, as above. Obs. Some authors recommend the use of anhydrous sulphate of copper, instead of ‘ lime ’ in the above processes; but the experiments of Drinkwater, and others, shew that it is less effective. Chloride of calcium is not so eff'ec-