631 FAINTS—FAT. I 1 patient can swallow, a little brandy-and-water, * or wine, or a few drops of ethar or spirit of » sal volatile, may be given. [ . 2. Cardiac (syncope caediaca, L.), arising k without any apparent cause, with violent pal- L pitation during the intervals, and altogether t of a more formidable character than the pre- ^ ceding. The subsequent treatment must here J be directed to the cure or alleviation of the I :Original disease. Ic; - FAINTS. The first and last runnings of Iiithe whiskey-still. The one is technically termed the ^strong faintsf the other, the . ‘ weak faints.^ They are both purified by rec- I tification, &c. See Distillation. FAITH. Dr. Pereira remarks, that “faith ; in the beneficial agency of remedies, and con- fidence in the skill of the medical attendant, are important adjuvants in the treatment of disease. To them both the physician and em- piric owe part of their success.^^ FAL'LING SICK'NESS. See Epilepsy. I FAR'CY. See Glanders. FARTNA. The flour of any species of corn, pulse, tuber, or starchy root. The most im- portant kinds of farina are noticed under their i respective heads. The following dietetic ar- 1 tides of a farinaceous character are exten- j sively advertised:— I Baker’s‘Alimentary Compound.’ Fine flour (pastrycook’s), 2 parts; finely ground ' rice, 1 part. I Easter’s ‘ Compound Farina.’ Wheat t flour, 14 oz.; white sugar, 2 oz. [ Braden’s ‘Farinaceous Food.’ Similar to Hard’s (below). Bright’s ‘Nutritious Farina.’ Rice flour and potato starch, equal parts. Bright’s ‘Breakfast Powder.’ Choco- late, 1 part; nutritious farina (Bright’s) 2 parts. Bullock’s ‘ Semola.’ Wheat flour, from which a portion of the starch has been removed, 80 as to leave an excess of gluten. Denham’s ‘Farinaceous Food.’ Wheat flour, 3 parts; barley meal, 1 part; the mix- ture is slightly baked, and again ground and ' sifted. Said to be slightly laxative. ■ Dubyea’s ‘ Maizena.’ Indian com starch prepared for food. Gardiner’s ‘Alimentary Preparation.' i Pure rice flour, very finely ground. ^ Hard’s ‘ Farinaceous Food.’ Wheat flour, \ slightly baked, and resifted. Kingsfoed’s ‘Oswego Prepared Corn.’ An excellent preparation of Indian com. Death’s ‘Alimentary Farina.’ Wheat flour (baked), with some sugar, Indian corn ' meal, and tapioca. According to some, it also contains potato starch. Maidman’s ‘Nutritious Farina.’ Po- tato starch tinged with beet-root or other i pink colouring matter. Plumbe’s ‘ Farinaceous Food.’ South- sea at'row-root, with about l-3rd its weight of pea flour. Polson’s ‘Corn Flour.’ The starch of Indian com or maize prepared with great care. It is much used as a substitute for arrow-root, and for custards, puddings, &c. Smith’s ‘Nursing Farina.’ Equal parts of baked wheat flour and rice flour. Obs. Many of the above compounds are deficient in the nitrogenous elements of nu- trition, and all of them nearly destitute of the mineral and saline matters which are abso- lutely necessary to the formation of the bones and tissues, and the support of the body in health, and are consequently utterly unsuitable as an exclusive article of diet, especially for young children. Unfortunately, it has been too much the fashion of medical men of late years to recommend these compounds, and even to furnish testimonials as to their excel- lence, apparently relying solely on the repre- sentation of their proprietors or vendors. We deem it, however, to be a public duty to caution parents and nurses against their inju- dicious use. As mere adjuvants or auxiliaries, when the natural food supplied by the mother may be insufficient for the nutrition of the infant, some of them may doubtless be of value; but in all other cases they should be largely combined with pure cow’s milJc, beef tea, meat broths or gravies, eggs, or other sub- stances rich in the nitrogenous and saline elements of nutrition. FARMTNG. The business or management of a farm. Formerly farming was looked upon as a profession easily understood, and successfully pursued only by an empiric. It is now, however, regarded in a different light, and the farmer, to succeed, not only requires perseverance and observation, but also a sound knowledge of natural science. See agricul- ture, Butter, Cheese, Implements, Ma- nures, Soils, &c. FASTING. See Abstinence. FAT. Syn. Adeps, L. The fat of animals is a concrete oil contained in the cellular mem- brane of their bodies, more especially round the kidneys, in the folds of the omentum, at the base of the heart, upon the surface of the intestines, and among many of the muscles. Fat varies in consistence, colour, and odour, with the animal from which it is obtained. That of the carniyora is usually soft and' rank-flavoured; that of the ruminantia solid and nearly scentless. It is generally whitest and most copious in the well-fed young animal, and yellowish and more scanty in the old. That under the skin and sur- rounding the kidneys (suet) is also more solid than that in the neighbourhood of the movable viscera. In the cetacea, or whale tribe, the fatty secretion assumes the form of oil. These variations in consistency depend upon the relative proportions of solid stearin and liquid olein present in the fat, The vegetable fats are fouptl in yapious parts of certain plants, but are generally mo^fi abundant in the seeds, They are extracted