1266 TARTARIC ACID. BODA ; TaETART7m BOEAXATUM!, CrETHOE TAE- TAEI SOLUBILIS, POTASSJE ET SOD.E TAETRAS BORAXATA, L. Prep. From horax, 2 Ih. ; cream of tartar, 5 lb.; (both in powder;) dissolved in water, evaporated, and crystallized. See Borotartrate of Potassa {page nil). Chalybea'ted Tartar. Potassio-tartrate of iron. (See page 797.) Cream of Tartar. Bitartrate of potassa. (See page 1120.) Emet'ic Tartar. Potassio-tartrate of anti- mony. (See 191.) Oil of Tartar. Deliquesced carbonate of potassa. (See page 1113.) Reduced Tartar. Sgn. Cremor taetari SEDUCTUS, L. An article is sold, under the name of ‘ British cream of tartar,^ which contains i its weight or more of bisulphate of potash. Salt of Tartar. Carbonate of potassa. (See page 1112.) Sol'uble Tartar. Neutral tartrate of po- tassa. (See page 1120.) Spirit of Tartar. Pyrotartaric acid. TARTARIC ACID. Syn. Acid of tartar, Essential salt of T.f; Acidum tartari- CUM (Ph. L. E. & D.), Sal essentials tar- TAElf, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Take of cream of tartar, 4 lb.; boiling water, 2 gall.; dissolve by boiling; add, gradually, of pared chalk, 12 oz. 7 dr. (made into a milk with water), and, when the effervescence ceases, add another like portion of prepared chalk, dissolved in hydrochloric acid, 26^ fl. oz., or q. 8., diluted with water, 4 pints; collect the precipitate (‘tartrate of lime’), and, after well washing it with water, boil it for 15 minutes in dilute sulphuric acid, 7 pints and 17 fl. oz.; next filter, evaporate the filtrate (to the den- sity of 1'38), and set it aside to crystallize; redissolve the crystals in water, concentrate the solution by evaporation, and recrystallize a second and a third time. The Edinburgh formula is nearly similar. In the Ph. L. & D. tartaric acid is placed in the Materia Me- dica. 2. (Gatty.) The solution of argol or tar^ tar is first neutralized with carbonate of potassa, and to every 300 gall, of the clear liquid, at 6® Twaddell, 34 gall, of milk of lime (1 lb. of lime per gall.) are added; carbonic acid gas is then forced in, with agitation ; decomposition ensues, with the formation of ‘ bicarbonate of potassa’ and ‘ tartrate of lime*; the last is con- verted into tartaric acid in the usual manner, and the former is evaporated in iron pans, and roasted in a reverberatory furnace for its potassa. 3. (Dr. Price.) This is a mere modifica- tion of his process for obtaining citric acid, described at page 454. Prop. Tartaric acid forms inodorous, scarcely transparent, oblique rhombic prisms, more or less modified, which are permaiunt in the air; it possesses a purely sour taste, dissolves in about 2 parts of water at 60® Fahr., and in about its own weight of boiling water it is slightly soluble in alcohol; the aqueou solution exhibits right-handed polarization and suffers gradual decomposition by age when heated to about 400° Fahr., after lo ing l-4th of its water, it is converted into tae TEALic ACID; by continuing the lie.it unf; another l-4th of its w^ater is driven off, it i converted into taetrelic acid ; at a stil higher degree of heat it loses all itswate;*, am assumes the form of an insoluble white po wder which is ANHYDROUS TARTARIC ACID. By dis tillation it yields pyrotartaric acid, witl other products; when strongly heated, it i wholly dissipated. With the bases it form salts called tartrates. Pur. It is “ free from colour; is entirely or almost entirely, dissipated by fire ; and i entirely soluble in water. This solutioi throws down bitartrate of potassa from an; neutral salt of potassa. Nothing is precipi tated from the same solution by chloride c barium, and what is thrown down by acetat of lead is dissolved by nitric acid. 100 gr. c this acid, dissolved in water, are saturated b 192 gr. of crystallized carbonate of soda. (Ph. L.) If it contain tartrate of lime, o cream of tartar, it is not wholly soluble i alcohol, nor wholly destroyed by fire. If i contain sulphuric acid, or a sulphate, clilc, ride of barium gives a white precipitate. Tests. 1. Tartaric acid is known to be sue’ by its solution giving white precipitates wit solutions of caustic lime, baryta, and stronti; which dissolves in excess of the acid.- 2. A solution of potassa causes a xohii granular precipitate of cream of tartai soluble by agitation in excess of the precip' tant.—3. Nitrate of silver and acetate of lea give white precipitates, which, when heate( fume, and yield the pure metal.—4. If to solution of tartaric acid, or a tartrat' solution of sesquioxide of iron, or of alurain; be added, and subsequently ammonia ( potassa, no precipitate is formed.—5. At aboi 570° Fahr. all the tartrates are blackene and yield a peculiar and characteristic odoui Uses, Sfc. Tartaric acid is chiefly employ^ in calico printing, and, in medicine, as substitute for citric acid and lemon joit in the preparation of cooling drinks ai saline draughts. For the latter purpos bicarbonate of soda is the alkaline salt cob monly employed. 20 gr. of crystallized tartaric acid are saturated by 27 gr. of crystallized bicarbonate of p 22 gr. of commercial carbonate of potassa I 22 gr. of crystallized bicarbonate of soda; 38 gr. of crystallized carbonate of sod' and 15^ gr. of sesquicarbonate of ammonia* Concluding remarks. On the large sea