ALOES. 115 patient before the usual time of rising in the morning—has contributed more than anything else to make such remedies popular with parties whose habits or business avocations would be otherwise interfered with. Aloes is also extensively used in 'veterinary practice. It is the most valuable and reliable purgative for the horse of the whole materia medica; but is less to be depended on for cattle, sheep, and hogs. Barbadoes aloes is the best for this purpose. Cape aloes are, how- ever, often employed, when l-4th more must he given.—Dose (of the former), for a hoese, 4 to 8 dr. —cattle, 3 to 6 dr. (followed by a purging drench);—HOGS, 5 to 15 gr.;— SHEEP, 15 to 30 gr. —dogs, {small ones) 10 to 30 gr., {middle-sized) 20 to 40, or even 60 gr., {large) § to 1 dr., or even 2 dr. Aloes is also used in dyeing j and as a colour- ing matter in stains, lacquers, and varnishes. Aloes, and several of its preparations, are like- wise extensively employed to adulterate por- ter. Var. These, arranged in the order of their reputed medicinal value, are—Socotrine, Hepa- tic, Barbados, Cape, &c.; and alphabetically, as given below:— Barba'dos Aloes. Syn. Aloes in gotjeds ; Al'oe Baebaden'sis, L., Ph. L. & E. Im- ported from Barbados and Jamaica, usually in gourds j sometimes in boxes. The best is the inspissated juice of the cut leaf of aloe vulga"ris; an inferior quality is prepared from the de- ^coction.—Char., ^c. “ Opaque, lustreless, of a liver colour, a little tending to black, with a bitter nauseous taste, and a very disagreeable odour” (Ph. L.), especially when breathed on; powder, a dull olive-yellow. It is the ‘ hepatic aloes’ of most continental writers, and said to be the 'X\br\ of Dioscorides. It is more active than the other varieties of aloes; but is also more apt to occasion haemorrhoids, and to gripe, than any of them. Cab'alline Aloes (-line). Syn. Fcet'id aloes, Hoese a.; Aloe caballi'na, A. Ghinien'- sis, L.; Aloes caballin, Fr. From aloe In'dica (O’Shaughnessy); or from aloe spiedta by long and careless boiling (Bindley). Used only by farriers. Scarcely known in English commerce. Cape Aloes. Syn. Aloe Capen'sis, A. ltj'- CIDA {Geiger), L. Imported from the Cape of Good Hope, and obtained from aloe spica'ta, and other Cape species. Odour, stronger and even more disagreeable than that of Barbados aloes j colour, deep greenish-brown; appearance, shining and resinous; fracture, generally glassy; powder, a lively greenish-yellow; almost com- pletely soluble in boiling water, decoction paler than that of other kinds. It is weaker than Barbados or even hepatic aloes, and is more apt to gripe, &c., than the latter. A finer kind, known as ‘Bethelsdorp aloes," imported > Aloes takes from 18 to 30, or even 36 hours, to operate on a horse. 2 Aloes, liowever large the dose, often fails to purge sheep. In very large quantities it is poisonous to them. from Algoa Bay, is more of a liver-colour, and softer than the preceding, and hence often called Cape hepatic-aloes. Hepat'ic Aloes. Syn. Bombay' Aloes*, East- India a.*, Livee-colotjeed Socoteine a.* ; Aloe hepat'ica, Ph. L. & D.; A. In'dica, Ph. E. Imported from Bombay and Madras. It is usually said to be obtained from “ uncertain species of aloes;” but it is almost certain that it is ‘‘the juice of the Soctorine aloes plant which has been solidified without the aid of artificial heat.”^—Char., &fc. “Opaque, of a liver-colour, bitter taste, and an unpleasant odour.” (Ph. L.) It is less odorous, darker coloured, and more opaque than Socotrine aloes; its powder has also a duller colour; and weak spirit leaves much undissolved matter. Its decoction on cooling frequently deposits a yel- low powder. The finer and brighter varieties of hepatic aloes are commonly sold for ‘ Soco- trines,’ and thear medicinal virtues are nearly similar. (See below.) In'dian Aloes (various):—1. Deep brown or black, very opaque, and less soluble than ordinary aloes. Scarcely known in commerce. —2. Several varieties ranging in character from ‘Cape aloes’ to ‘hepatics,’ and occasionally to ‘ Barbados,’ obtained from several species. Mo'cha Aloes (-kaA). Syn. Aloe de Mocha, L. Imported from Muscat. An inferior kind of Indian aloes. (Christison.) It is obtained from the same plant as produces genuine hepa- tic aloes. (Bindley.) It holds an intermediate position between ‘Cape’ and ‘hepatics,’ but contains much impurity; the latter often amounting to upwards of 25^. Some specimens are, however, of excellent quality. When melted and ‘ doctored,’ it is sold for Barbados, hepatic, and even Socotrine aloes. Soc'otrine Aloes (-trm; siik'-J). Syn. Soc'- OTOEINE ALOES, SmTE'nA A.,The'KEY A.; AlOE Socotei'na, Ph. L.; Aloe, Ph. L. 1836; A. Socotoei'na, Ph. E. “ The juice of the cut leaf of uncertain species hardened by the air.” (Ph. L.) Genuine Socotrine aloes is generally supposed to be obtained from aloe spica'ta; but is referred by De Candolle to a distinct species, a. Socotri'na; and by Martins, also to a. pur- puras’cens. Formerly this variety was brought from the Island of Socotra or Zocotora, (hence the name,) by way of Smyrna and Malta; but it is now chiefly obtained from Bombay and Madras.—Char., 8fc. Colour, garnet red to golden red; smell, peculiar and aromatic, not unlike a decaying russet apple, especially when fresh-broken, or breathed on, or warmed ; taste, permanently and intensely bitter; fracture, conchoidal; softens in the hand, and becomes adhesive, yet retains considerable brittleness ; powder, bright golden-yellow colour; central portions of the lumps often soft, especially when first imported. “It is brittle, bitter, of a reddish-brown colour, and an aromatic odour. Light permeates thin recently-broken 3 Pereii-a, “Elem. Mat. Med. and Therap ," vol. ii, 188, 4th Ed.; “ Pharm. Journ.,” vol. xi.