INK. 777 I I l| clear, bottle, and cork up for use. Writesa ij full black, and otherwise resembles No. 10. '<! 12. (Eisner.) G'a/Zs (powdered), 42 02^. ; gum I Senegal (pow’dered), 15 oz. ; distilled or rain il water, 18 quarts; sulphate of iron (free from :'! copper), 18 oz.; liquor of ammonia, 3 dr.; ,! spirit of wine, 24 oz.; mix these ingredients in ij an open vessel, stirring frequently until the •! ink attains the desired blackness. This for- mula is said to give a deep blade, neutral ink, j ,| that does not corrode steel pens. I 13. (Excheqtjee,) Galls (bruised), 40 lb. ij (say 4 parts); gum, 10 lb. (say I part); green I sulphate of iron, 9 lb. (say 1 part); soft water, < 45 gall, (say 45 parts); macerate for 3 weeks, ■I employing frequent agitation. “ This ink will ■ . | endure for centuries.^' j ' I 14. (Guibourt.) Galls (in powder), 50 parts;, f hot water, 800 parts; digest 24 hours, strain, [ V| and add of green sulphate of iron and gum | «| arabic, of each 25 parts; when dissolved, add )| the following solution, and mix well:—Sal ■I, ammoniac, 8 parts ; gum, 2 parts; oil oflaven- 1 der, 1 part; boiling water, IG parts. Said to ; be indelible. I 15. (.Tapan.) This is a black and glossy ri kind of ink, which may be prepared from ill either of the above receipts by calcining the j copperas until white or yellow, or by sprink- ^ ling it (in powder) with a little nitric acid • before adding it to the decoction (preferably j the former), by which the ink is rendered of a - full black as soon as made. The glossiness is given by using more gum. It flows less easily from the pen than other inks, and is less < durable than ink that writes paler and after- j wards turns black. It is unfitted for steel pens. ' j 16. (Lewis.) Bruised galls, 3 lb.; gum and » sulphate of iron, of each, 1 lb. ; vinegar, 1 gall.; . I water, 9 quarts; macerate with frequent agi- I tation for 14 days. To produce 3 gall. Fine i quality, but apt to act on steel pens, i 17. (Pbeeogative CorET.) Galls, 1 lb.; gum arabic, 6 oz.; alum, 2 oz.; green vitriol, 7 oz.; kino, 3 oz.; logwood raspings, 4 oz. ; soft water, 1 gall.; macerate as last. Said to write well on parchment. 18. (Ribaucourt.) Galls, 1 lb.; logwood chips and sulphate of iron, of each, ^ lb. ; gum, 6 oz.; sulphate of copper and sugar candy, of each, 1 oz.; boil the first two in soft water, 2h gall., I to one half, then add the other ingredients. Full coloured, but somewhat corrosive, as No. 10. 19. (Dr. Ure.) Galls, 12 lb. ; green copperas and gum Senegal, of each, 5 lb.; as No. 2 (nearly). To produce 12 gall. 20. (Dr. Wollaston.) Galls, loz.; sulphate of iron, 3 dr. ; gum, i oz.; cold water, ^ pint; j put into a bottle and shaken together every I day for a fortnight or longer. A good, durable ink, which will bear diluting. General Commentary. According to the most accurate experiinentsonthepreparation of black ink, it appears that the quantity of sulphate of I iron sliould not exceed ^rd part of that of the ,1 galls, by which an excess of astringent vegeta- ble matter, which is necessary for the durability of the colour, is preserved in the liquid. Gum, by shielding the writing from the action of the air, tends to preserve the colour; but if much is employed, the ink flows languidly from quill pens, and scarcely at all from steel pens. The latter require a very limpid ink. The addition of sugar (especially of moist sugar) increases the flowing property of the liquid, but makes it dry more slowly, and frequently to pass into an acetous state, in which con- dition it acts injuriously on the pen. Vinegar, for a like reason, is not calculated for the men- struum, as it rapidly softens quill or horn, and corrodes iron and steel. To ensure the permanency of the colour of the tanno-gallic inks, the best Aleppo or blue nut-galls must alone be used. No second or inferior quality should be employed. A con- trary practice, often adopted for the sake of economy, is nearly always followed by unplea- sant results, and often by considerable loss. The only improvement of importance which has been made in the manufacture of writing ink from the common materials, during the last few years, is the practice of first roasting the gall-nuts, which is now adopted by a few of the houses most celebrated for their copying ink. In this way a portion of pyrogallic acid is formed, which is very soluble in water, and strikes an intense bluish-black colour with the protosulphate or green sulphate of iron. From galls so treated an ink may be made to write black at once. Care must, however, be taken to avoid any loss of materials by volatilization. To prevent any tendency to mouldiness in ! ink, a few bruised cloves, or a little oil of cloves, or, still better, a few drops of creasote (carbolic acid) may be added. The last two should be pre- I viously dissolved in a small quantity of strong 1 vinegar, or rectified spirit. With the same in- tention, some of the largemakers allow the ink to become covered with a skin of ‘ mould' in the cask, to render it less liable to undergo the same change when subsequently bottled. For- merly, the practice was to add a little spirit for the same purpose. Sumach, logwood, and oak-bark, are frequently substituted for galls in the preparation of common ink. When such is the case, only about gth or |th of their weight of copperas should be employed. Inks so made possess little durability. The very general use of steel pens of late years has caused a corresponding demand for easy-flowing inks, many of which are now vended under the titles of * weiting-eluid,' ‘ STEEL-PEN INK,' ‘ ANTICOEEOSIVE INK,’ &C. The greater number of these are prepared from galls in the preceding manner; but a less quantity of gum is employed, and greater attention is paid than heretofore to avoid every source of ‘ greasiness,* among which smoke and dirty utensils are, perhaps, the principal. The blue ‘ writing fluids,’ Avhich either maintain