1020 OXALOVINIC ACID. occasions a white precipitate in neutral solu- tions of oxalic acid (oxalates), which is soluble in both nitric and hydroch.loric acid.—2. So- lution of niti’ate of silver, under like circum- stances, gives a ivhite precipitate, which is soluble in nitric acid and in ammonia, and which, when heated to redness, yields pxire silver.—3. Lime water and solutions of all the soluble salts of lime produce white pre- cipitates, even in highly dilute solutions of oxalic acid or of the oxalates, which is freely soluble in both nitric and hydrochloric acid, hut is nearly insoluble in either acetic or oxalic acid, and is converted into car- bonate of lime upon ignition. — 4. Oxalic acid (or an oxalate), when heated, in the dry state, with oil of vitriol in excess, is converted into carbonic acid and carbonic oxide, which escape, and, when kindled, burn with a faint blue fame, whilst the residual sulphuric acid •continues colourless if the substance operated on is free from organic matter. Of the above tests, solution of sulphate of lime {vide No. 3) is the most delicate and characteristic.—5. It is distinguished from Epsom salt by its acid reaction, its solubility in rectified spirit, its complete dissipation by heat, and by emitting a slight crackling noise during its solution in water. See Mag-nesia (Sulphate). Uses, Pois., ^c. Oxalic acid is chiefly used in the arts of calico printing and bleaching; to remove ink-spots and iron-moulds from linen, and to clean boot-tops. It is extremely poisonous. The treatment, in cases of its having been swallowed, is to promote vomiting, and to administer chalk, whiting-, or mag- nesia, mixed up with water, in considerable quantities. The use of the alkalies or their carbonates must be avoided, as the compounds which these form with oxalic acid are nearly as poisonous as the acid itself. The remaining treatment is noticed under Acids. In poison- ing by oxalic acid, the nervous system is almost always affected, and the patients expe- rience numbness, formication of the extremi- ties, and sometimes convulsions, so that the symptoms somewhat approach those produced by strychnine, from which it is distinguished by its corrosive action on the tissues, and its effect upon the heart and circulatory system. Concluding remarks. The manufacture of oxalic acid is an important one. The process of Eoberts, Dale, and Co., has so much cheap- ened the price of oxalic acid, that in 1851 it sold for 16</. per lb., and now, in 1864, it only costs from 8c?. to 9c/. per lb. More than half the amount of oxalic acid used all over the world is now made from sawdust. In manu- facturing the acid from sugar, on the large scale, the first part of the process is either conducted in salt-glazed stoneware pipkins of the capacity of 3 to 5 quarts each (which are about two thirds filled and set in a water bath), or in wooden troughs lined with lead, and heated by means of a coil of steam-pipe. On the small scale, a glass retort or capsule is commonly employed. The most appropriate temperature appears to be about 125° Fahr., and the best evidence of the satisfactory pro- gress of the decomposition is the free but not violent evolution of gas, without the appear- ance of dense red fumes, or, at all events, any marked quantity of them. When these are disengaged with violence and rapidity, a greater quantity of the newly formed acid suffers decomposition, and flies off in a gaseous form. The sp. gr. of the nitric acid commonly used on the large scale ranges from 1’22 to 1‘27, equivalent quantities being taken. The evaporation is preferably conducted by the heat of steam. The evolved nitrous vapours are usually allowed to escape, but this loss may be in part avoided by conveying them into a chamber fllled with cold damp air, and containing a little water, when they will absorb oxygen, and be recondensed into fum- ing nitric acid. Various modiflcations of this plan have been patented. ’ That of Messrs. McDougall and Kawson, which is one of the simplest and best, consists in passing the mixed nitrous fumes through a series of ves- sels containing water, and connected together by tubes, so that the fumes which collect at the top of one vessel are conveyed to nearly the bottom of the next one, and then, bubbling up through the water, mix with the air, a supply of which is provided for the purpose. The nitrous fumes are thus brought alternately into contact with air and water, and by the time they reach the last vessel are reconverted into nitric acid. Another plan is to pass tlie mixed nitrous vapours through a vessel stuffed with some porous substance, as pumice-stone or pounded glass, conjointly with a supply ol steam from a boiler and a siqjply of oxygen, by a blowing machine. The products obtained by skilful manipu- lation are—from good dry sugar, 128g; from good treacle, 107§.—“ One cwt. of good treack will yield about 116 lb. of marketable oxalic acid, and the same weight of good brown sugai may be calculated to produce about 140 lb. ol acid.” “ As a general rule, 5 cwt. of saltpetre or an equivalent of nitrate of soda, with 2\ cwt. of sulphuric acid, will generate suffi cient nitric acid to decompose 1 cwt. of goou sugar, and yield, as above, 140 lb. of fair mar ketable oxalic acid, free from superfluom moisture.” (Ure.) On the small scale, 5 part; of sugar yield nearly 6 parts of crystallizei acid. Chemically phee oxalic acid is best pre pared by precipitating a solution of binoxalaU of potassa with a solution of acetate of lead washing the precipitate with water, decom posing it, whilst still moist, with dilute sul phuric acid or sulphuretted hydrogen, an( gently evaporating the filtrate so that crystal may form as it cools. OXALOVI'NIC ACID. Prep. An alcoholl solution of caustic potassa is added to a solu tion of oxalic ether in anhydrous alcohol u