CITRON—CLARIFICATION. 456 parts of chalk. Commercial eulpliuric acid {oil of vitriol) is usually of the sp. gr. of 1’845, and it therefore requires 49 lb. of this acid for every 50 lb. of chalk employed in the process. In practice it is found that a very slight excess of sulphuric acid is preferable to a prepon- derance of undecomposed citrate of lime. The first crop of crystals is called ‘ beown ciTEic acid/ and is chiefly sold to the calico- printers. Sometimes a little nitric acid is added to the solution of the coloured crystals, for the purpose of whitening them] but in this way a minute quantity of oxalic acid is formed. A more general plan is to bleach the citrate of lime, by exposing it in shallow vessels to the sun’s rays, covered with a weak solution of chloride of lime, and to re wash it before decomposing it with the sulphuric acid. A safer plan is to dissolve the crude citric acid, digest with animal charcoal, and again concentrate the solution to the crys- tallizing point. Good lemon juice yields about 5g of crys- tallized lemon acid; 2 gall, yield fully 1 lb. of crystals. If the imported citrate of lime be used, a given quantity must be exposed to a red heat for about an hour, and then weighed, when the per-centage of lime present will he ascertained; every 28 lb. of which will require 49 lb. of sulphuric acid of 1’845 (or a corre- sponding quantity of acid of any other strength) for its complete decomposition. CIT'RON. The fruit of the citron tree {Citrus medica) is acidulous, antiseptic, and antiscorbutic; it excites the appetite, and stops vomiting; and, like lemon juice, has been greatly extolled in chronic rheumatism, gout, and scurvy. Mixed with cordials, it is used as an antidote to the manchineel poison. Oil of Citron. See Oil. Citron Peel. This is prepared in the same way as candied orange and lemon peel, which it for the most part resembles. Citron. Syn. Lem'on coloue. The term applied to a pale and delicate shade of yellow. See Yellow Dyes, &c. CIT'RONELLE. See Liquedes and Oils (Lemon-grass). CITRUS. A genus of plants belonging to the natural order Aurantiacece, the species of which yield useful fruits. From Citrus Aurantium, and its varieties, all the various descriptions of SWEET OEANGES are obtained. The species C. Bigaradia or vulgaris yields the bittee or Seville oeange ; C. Limonum, and its va- rieties, yield the lemons ; C. Limetta is the source of the lime ; C. medica, of the citeon ; C. Decumana, of the shaddock ; C. paradisi, of the EOEBIDDEN EEUIT; C. Pampelmos, of the Pampelmoose; and C. japonica, of the KHMQUAT. C. Bergamia, which yields the Beegamot oeange, so largely used in per- fumery, is now generally regarded as a mere variety of C. Limetta. CIV'ET. Syn. Civet'ta, Zibeth'um, L. A perfume, obtained from the civet cat {Vi- verra civetta,—Linn.), a fierce, carnivorous \ quadruped, somewhat resembling a fox, found 1 in China and the East and West Indies. The I civet is secreted in a sort of pouch between ' the anus and the sexual organs. “Several of * these animals have been brought into Holland, and aftbrd a considerable branch of commerce, especially at Amsterdam. The civet is squeezed out in summer every other day, in winter twice a week; the quantity procured at once is from 2 scruples to 1 drachm or more.” Civet is frequently adulterated with sper- maceti and butter, and a similar substance to civet, but of a darker colour, obtained from the polecat. When pure it has an odour intermediate between that of musk and am- bergris, but less refined; a pale-yellow colour; an acrid taste; and the consistence of honey. It is used in perfumery. CLAIRET. See Liqueue. CLAR'ET RAGS. Syn. Tohenesol en DEAPEAH, Fr.; Bezet'ta cgeeu'lea, L. 1. Pieces of clean linen coloured with Auvergne— or ground archil. 2. Pieces of linen dipped into the juice of mulberries, blood-red grapes, lees of red wine, &c. Used to colour jellies, confectionery, the rind of cheeses, &c. CLARIFICA'TION. The act of clearing or making bi-ight; commonly applied to the process of ‘clearing’ or ‘fining’ liquids hy chemical means, instead of by filtration. The substances used for this purpose are popularly I known as clarifiers ov finings. The substances employed in the clarifica- tion of liquids, operate by either mechanically embracing the feculous matter, and subsiding with it to the bottom of the vessel, or hy inducing such a change in its nature or bulk that it subsides by its own density, in each / case, leaving the liquor transparent. Albu- ' men, gelatine, the acids, certain salts, blood, lime, plaster of Paris, alum, heat, alcohol, &c., serve in many cases for this purpose. The first is used, under the form of white of egg, for the clarification of syrups, as it combines with the liquid when cold, but on the appli- cation of heat rapidly coagulates and rises to the surface, carrying the impurities with it, forming a scum which is easily removed with a skimmer. It is also much used for fining wines and liqueurs, particularly the red wines and more limpid cordials. Gelatine, under the form of isinglass, dissolved in water or weak vinegar, is used to fine white wines, beer, cider, and similar liquors that contain a sufficient quantity of either spirit or astringency {tannin), to induce its precipi- tation. SuLPHHEic ACID is frequently added to weak liquors for a similar purpose, either alone, or after the addition of white of egg or gelatine, both of which it rapidly throws down in an insoluble form. A pernicious j practice exists among some unprincipled manu- ; facturers, of using certain salts of lead and