1303 VARNISH. brilliant, and colourless. It greatly improves by age, and, when possible, should never be used before it has been made at least a twelve- month. Should it get ‘chilled’ 1 lb. of well- washed siliceous sand should be made mode- rately hot, and added to each gallon, which must then be well agitated for 5 minutes, and afterwards allowed to settle. Oak Varnish. Syn. Wainscot vaenish. Common tuepentine v. Prep. 1. Clear pale resin, 3^ lb.; oil of turpentine, 1 gall.; dissolve. 2. To the last add of Canada balsam, 1 pint. Both are cheap and excellent common var- nishes for wood or metal. Oil Varnish. The finer qualities are noticed under Ambee, Body, Caeeiage, and Copal Vaenish ; the following produces the ordinary oil varnish of the shops:—Take of good clear resin, 3 lb.; drying oil, ^ gall.; melt, and thin with oil of turpentine, 2 quarts. A good and durable varnish for common work. Painter’s Varnish. See Caeeiage, Copal, Mahogany, Oak, Oil, and other varnishes. The selection depending greatly on the colour and quality of the work. Patent Leather Varnish. This is carefully prepared drying oil. The shins being stretched on a board, and every trace of grease being removed from them by means of a mixture of fullePs earth and water, they are ready to receive the varnish, which is then spread upon them, very thinly, by means of a species of scraper. The first coat varnish consists of pale Prussian blue (that containing some alumina), 5 oz.; drying oil, 1 gall.; boiled to the consistence of single size, and, when cold, ground with a little vegetable black; it is stoved, and afterwards polished with fine- grained pumice ;—the second coating resembles the first, excepting in having a little pure Prussian blue mixed with it;—the third coat varnish consists of a similar mixture, but the oil is boiled until it strings well, and a little more pure Prussian blue and vegetable black are added;—the last coat varnish, or finish, is the same as the third, but must contain ^ lb. of pure dark-coloured Prussian blue, and \ lb. of pure vegetable black per gall., to which a little oil copal or amber varnish is often added; each coat being duly stoved and pumiced before the next is applied. The heat of the stove or oven is commonly 120° Fahr. for ‘enamelled skins,’ as those of the calf and seal, intended for * uppers;’ and 175° to 180° for stout ‘JAPAN LEATHEE;’ the exposure in the stove is commonly for 6 to 10 hours. The skins are next oiled and grained. The ‘ grain- ing ’ of the ‘ enamelled skins ’ is done by holding the skin in one hand, and with a curved board lined with cork {graining stick), lightly pressed upon the fieshy side, working it up and down until the proper effect is produced. Picture Varnish. Several varnishes, especi- ally MASTIC VAENISH, are called by this name. Pale copal or mastic vaenish is generally used for oil paintings, and ceystal, white HAED SPIEIT, or MASTIC VAENISH, for water- colour drawings on paper. Printer’s Varnish. See 1141. Diluted with twice its volume of oil of turpentine, it forms a good common varnish. Sealing-wax Varnish. Black, red, or any coloured sealing-wax, broken small, with enough rectified spirit (or methylated spirit) to cover it, digested till dissolved. A most useful var- nish for wood-work of electrical or chemical apparatus, for tops of corks, &c. Spirit Varnish. Prep. 1. (Beown haed.) —a. From gum sandarach, 3 lb. ; pale seed-lac or shell-lac, 2 lb.; rectified spirit (65 o. p.), 2 gall.; dissolve, and add of turpentine varnish, 1 quart; agitate well, strain (quickly) through gauze, and in a month decant the clear portion from the sediment. Very fine. b. From seed-lac and yellow resin, of each, li lb.; rectified spirit, 5 quarts; oil of tur- pentine, I5 pint; dissolve. Inferior to the last. 2. (White haed.)—a. From gum sandarach (picked), 5 lb.; camphor, 2 oz.; washed and dried coarsely pounded glass, 3 lb.; rectified spirit (65 o. p.), 7 quarts; proceed as in making miastic varnish; when strained, add of pure Canada balsam, 1 quart. Very pale, durable, and brilliant. b. From gum sandarach and gum mastic. of each, picked, 4 oz.; coarsely powdered glass, 8 oz.; rectified spirit, 1 quart; dissolve, and add of pure Strasburg turpentine, 3 oz. Very fine. 3. (SoET BEILLIANT.) From sandarach, 6 oz.; elemi (genuine), 4 oz. ; anime, 1 oz.; camphor, ^ oz.; rectified spirit, 1 quart; as before. 4. (Scented.) To the preceding add some gum benzoin, balsam of Pern, balsam of Tolu, oii of lavender, or the essence of musk or ambergris. The first two can only be employed for dark varnishes. Obs. The above varnishes are chiefly applied to articles of the toilette, as work-boxes, card- cases, &c.; but are also suitable to other articles, whether of paper, wood, linen, or metal, that require a brilliant and quick-drying varnish. They dry almost as soon as applied, and are usually hard enough to polish in 24 hours. They are, however, much less durable, and more liable to crack, than oil varnishes. (See page 1299.) Stopping-out Varnish. Syn. Petit veenis, Fr. From lampblack, made into a paste with turpentine. Used by engravers. See Etching. Tingry’s Varnish. Mastic vaenish. Toy Varnish. Similar to common spieit VAENISH, but using carefully rectified wood naphtha as the solvent. See Lac and Spieit Vaenish. Transfer Varnish. Syn. Moedant vaenish. Prep. From mastic (in tears) and sandarach, of each, 4 oz.', rectified spirit. If pint; dis- solve, and add of pure Canada balsam, f pint. Used for transferring and fixing engravings or