CARMINE. 400 fluid is next very carefully removed with a syphon, and the adhering moisture, as far as possible, drained ofi‘, or sucked up with a pipette. The residium, which is the carmine, is dried in the shade, and possesses extraordinary lustre and beauty. 2. {Alxon or Langlois process.) Powdered cochineal, 1 lb., is boiled in river water, 4 gall., for 10 minutes, when carbonate of soda, f oz., dissolved in water, 1 pint, is added, and the whole again boiled for i hour longer; when the decoction is cold, alum (in fine powder), f oz., is thrown in, and the liquid agitated rapidly until it is entirely dissolved; after 20 minutes’ repose, it is decanted into another vessel, and clarified by heating it with the whites of 2 eggs ; the perfectly clear liquid is then allowed to repose for 40 minutes or longer, when it is decanted, and the carmine which it has deposited is collected, drained on a filter, and dried on shallow plates covered with silver paper. The product by either of the above processes varies from 9| to lOg on the weight of the cochineal employed in them. 3. {^China or Spirit process.) Cochineal, 1 lb., is boiled for 15 minutes, in water, 3 gall., powdered alum, 1 dr., is next added, and the whole again boiled for 5 or 6 minutes; when the liquid has become cold, the clear portion is decanted, and again heated, and solution of tin {spirits of tin), cautiously dropped in until all the carmine is precipitated; it is collected, drained, and dried, as before. Prod. 1^ oz. 3. {Frenchprocess.) Prom (in pow- der), 1 lb., boiled for 15 minutes, in water, 3 gall.; cream of tartar (in powder), 1 oz., is then added, the boiling further continued for 10 minutes, and powdered alum, I5 oz., thrown in; after another 2 minutes’ boil, the heat is withdrawn, and in 5 or 6 minutes more, the clear portion is decanted into porcelain vessels, which are set aside until the carmine falls down. 4. {German process.) Powdered cochineal, 1 lb., water, 4 gall.; boil 15 minutes, add pow- dered alum, 1 oz.; boil 3 minutes longer, remove the heat, allow the liquor to settle for 5 minutes, pour off the clear portion into por- celain or earthenware vessels, and set them aside for 3 or 4 days. The carmine is found deposited on the bottom of the vessel, and must be now carefully drained and dried, as before. The decanted liquor yields more car- mine by standing in fresh vessels. Product. About 1| oz.; besides ^ oz., or more, of an inferior quality obtained as a second deposit. 5. {English process.) From cochineal, 1 lb.; and carbonate of potash, ^ oz., boiled in water, 7 gall., for 15 minutes ; the vessel is then removed from the fire, and powdered alum, loz., added; the liquor is then well agitated and allowed to settle for about 15 minutes longer; the clear liquid is next decanted into a clean copper, and isinglass, ^ oz., dissolved in water, 1 pint (and strained), added; as soon as a coagulum forms upon the surface, the heat is removed, and the liquid is strongly agitated with a bone or silver spatula, after which it is allowed to repose for 20 or 30 minutes. The deposited carmine must be drained and dried, as before. Obs. The best black cochineal is generally used for the preparation of carmine. For ordinary qualities, spirits of tin (bichloride) is added to the decoction as a precipitant, and the liquid being put into suitable vessels (wash-hand basins answer very well), a de- posit of carmine slowly takes place. Neither exposure to solar light nor artificial heat is advisable during the drying, but the latter must nevertheless be effected ^vith all possible expedition. Hence, the finer shades of car- mine can only be successfully made during certain states of weather; as in very hot weather the liquid rapidly sours or ferments, and the deposit is more or less dissolved; whilst in dull, damp weather, it is difficult to dry the precipitate sufficiently, which is then apt to become mouldy, and to lose colour. The researches of Pelletier and Caventou tend to show that the solution of tin iised as a pre- cipitant, should be at the maximum of oxida- tion or chlorination, to produce the richest shades of carmine. That first deposited is, in all cases, the most beautiful, and the quality gradually deteriorates as the process proceeds. 6 or 7 dr. only of carmine of the very finest quality can hence be obtained from 1 lb. of cochineal. Prop., S(c. Pure carmine is a very light, lustrous, scarlet j)Owder, entirely soluble in liquor of ammonia, a test by which its purity is readily determined. Preisser has given the name carmine to a colourless crystalline com- pound, which he has obtained from cochineal, and which, according to him, forms, by oxida- tion, carmeine, or the red colouring matter of the insect. Mr. Warren De la Rue says the pure colouring principle of cochineal is car- minic acid. Others have given the name cochinellin to a similar substance. Pelletier and Caventou regard the carmine of commerce as consisting of cochinellin, animal matter, and an acid. By digesting liquor of ammonia on carmine, until all the colour is taken up, filtering and adding acetic acid and alcohol, till the whole is precipitated; and lastly, care- fully washing the precipitate with spirit of wine, at proof, and drying in the shade, car- mine of the richest and most lustrous hue, may be obtained even from samples of inferior quality. Uses, Sfc. As a pigment in velvet and minia- ture painting, and for tinting artificial flowers, and as rouge for the complexion. The pow- dered cochineal {carmine grounds), from which the coloured liquor (liquid rouge, carmine liquor), has been decanted, is used by the paper stainers, and both are used in the pre- paration of carminated lake. Blue Carmine. See Indigo. Liq'uid Carmine. Syn. Fluid caemine. Liquid eouge, Caemine ink. Prep. 1. A