KAKODYLIC ACID—KALEIDOSCOPE. 808 tilled with concentrated hydrochloric acid, and the distillate (htdeated chloeide oe kako- DTl) is left for some time in contact wnth some chloride of calcium and a little qnicJclime, and is, lastly, rectified alone in an atmosphere of carbonic acid gas. Prop., 8fc. Limpid; colourless; heavier than water; soluble in alcohol; boils at 215° Fahr.; its vapour inflames on contact with the air, and has the density 4‘56. The latter is more fearful in its efiects, and more insup- portable in odour, even in the most dilute form, than that of the oxide. It combines with the subchloride of copper to form a wliite, insoluble, crystalline, double salt (chloeide OF KAKODYL AND coppee) ; and with alkarsin to form OXTCHLOEIDE OF KAEODYL; Crystals of the latter are also deposited when the chloride is exposed to the air. Cy'anide of Kakodyl. Prep. By distilling oxide of kakodyl with concentrated hydrocyanic acid, or with cyanide of mercury. Prop., S(c. Lustrous, colourless, four-sided prisms; slightly soluble in water; melts at 91° Fahr.; boils at 285° Fahr. It is, perhaps, the most fearful poison known. A few grains vaporized and diftused through the atmosphere of a large room, produces instantaneous numb- ness of the hands and feet, vertigo, delirium, and even paralysis and unconsciousness. Un- less the person poisoned by such an atmosphere be not instantly rescued by exposure to a current of cold air, and ammoniacal stimu- lants, death ensues as an inevitable conse- quence. I'odide of Kakodyl. Prepared by distilling oxide of kakodyl with a strong solution of hy- driodic acid. A thin, yellowish, fetid, heavy liquid. The yellow crystalline substance which is formed at the same time is said to be OXY-IODTDE OF KAKODYL. By substituting hydrohromic acid and hydrofluoric acid for the hy dr iodic, beomide and fltjoeide of kakodyl are respectively formed. Ox'ide of Kakodyl. Syn. Alkaesin, Cadet’s FUMING LIQUOE. Acetate of potassa and or- senious acid, equal parts, are mixed together, and slowly heated to redness in a glass retort, placed in a sand bath, and connected with a tubulated receiver placed in a freezing mix- ture, and provided with a safety-tube to carry off the non-condensable gases; the heavier liquid that distils over is collected, agitated with recently boiled distilled water, and recti- fied along with caustic potassa, in an atmo- sphere of pure hydrogen. By a second recti- fication over lime or baryta, it may be obtained anhydrous. Obs. All these operations must be per- formed in the open air, and the strictest pre- cautions taken to avoid the inhalation of the smallest quantity of the vapour. Prop., ^c. A colourless liquid, boiling at about 300°; congealing at —10° Fahr., and evolving a very offensive odour, resembling that of arseniuretted hydrogen. Sp. gr. 1*462. “ It is highly poisonous in every shape.” “The minutest quantity painfully affects the eyes and mucous membrane of the nose.” In a larger dose it is destructive to life. It pos- sesses feeble basic properties, is soluble in al- cohol and ether, sparingly soluble in water, and fumes and inflames spontaneously by ex- posure to the air. Sp. gr. of the vapour, 7*5. Sul'phuret of Kakodyl. Formed by distilling a mixture of chloride of kakodyl and solution of hydrosulphate of sxdphuret of barium. Prop., 6^c. A colourless, fetid liquid, insolu- ble in w’ater, and spontaneously inflammable in the air. It has a high boiling-point, and is very poisonous. It dissolves sulphur, forming TEESULPHUEET OF KAKODYL Or ’SULPHO- KAKODYLic ACID, and Combines with the sul- phurets of antimony, bismuth, copper, gold, and lead. A seleniueet or selenide of kako- dyl has also been formed by a similar method to that adopted for the sulphuret. KAKODYLIC ACID. Syn. Alkaegen. This is the ultimate product of the action of oxygen on kakodyl. Prep. 1. The oxide of kakodyl (alkarsin) is gradually exposed to the air, in the cold; as soon as a semi-solid mass is formed, it is treated wdth cold water, the solution evaporated until it solidifies, and then pressed in bibulous paper; the residuum is dissolved in boiling absolute alcohol, and is again obtained in crystals as the liquid cools; by repeating the process several times wdth j alcohol, or by evaporating the aqueous solution in a water bath, and subsequent treatment with hydrated peroxide of iron, and a final crystallization from alcohol, pure kadodylic acid is obtained. j 2. Oxide of mercury is added to kakodyl or ' to alkarsin, covered with a layer of water and 1 artificially cooled, until the mixture entirely I loses its odour, and afterwards decomposing any kakodylate of mercury which may have 1 formed, by the cautious addition of a little I more alkarsin ; the liquid is then evaporated for crystals, as before. I Prop., 8fc. Brittle, glossy, prismatic crys- I tals, deliquescent, inodorous, tasteless, and ! soluble in w’ater and alcohol; the solution has * an acid reaction ; with the bases it forms salts (kakodylates). The kakodylates of potassa and soda are obtained as gummy, amorphous masses; the kakodylates of mercury and silver are crystallizable. “ Kakodylic acid is an exceedingly stable compound; it is neither affected by red, fuming nitric acid, aqua regia, nor even by chromic acid in solution; it may be boiled with these substances without the j least change.” It is, however, deoxidized by phosphorous acid and protochloride of tin. Dry hydriodic acid converts it into iodide, and hydrochloric acid into teechloeide of KAKODYL. “What is extremely remarkable, this substance (kakodylic acid) is not in the least degree poisonous.” (Fownes.) KALEIDOSCOPE. Syn. Flowee-glass. A pleasing philosophical toy, invented by Sir