BREWING. 364 tity of alcohol equivalent to the sugar which they contain; and this because a certain por- tion of the sugar serves for the oxidation of the gluten, and is not transformed like the rest. But wherever the liquor has arrived at the second period of transformation, the pro- duct in alcohol ought to be equivalent to the quantity of sugar present, as actually happens in all fermentations (sedimentary) which are not accompanied with a formation, but a dis- appearance of the yeast. According to Dr. Ure, worts furnish, in the Bavarian breweries, from log to 20g more alcohol than they do by the ordinary process of fermentation {ober- gdhrung), or that excited by the use of ‘ober- hefe’ or top-yeast. East-India Ale or Pale Ale, for exportation, is brewed from worts of a sp. gr. not lower than 1‘054, in order to obtain the drawback of 5s. per barrel, allowed by the ‘ Board of Inland Revenue’ on ales of that strength. For the best varieties, 15 to 16 lb. of the finest East Kent hops are used to every quarter of pale malt. The pale ale or bitter beer of the pub- licans is commonly a very weak liquor (mere table-beer), highly bittered with the hop, and too often with quassia, wormwood, and other still more objectionable substances.^ The pro- cess now adopted by the great brewers of pale ale at Burton-on-Trent, combines all the most admirable points of both the Bavarian and Scotch systems of brewing. Berlin White ale or Pale beer is brewed from wheat-malt mixed with about ^th part of barley-malt, the ^ wort’ being boiled with hops, ^ lb. to the bushel, and slightly fermented with ‘top-yeast,’ at a rather high tempera- ture. The desire of evading the duty led to the discovery of its being only necessary to employ ^rd, or less, of the grain, in the form of malt; this portion being sufficient to convert into sugar, in the process of mashing, the starch of the unmalted grain forming the other part. This plan answers well when the wort is merely intended for the production of ‘ grain spiritbut beer so made is insipid and in- ferior in quality to that brewed wholly of malt. Inferior kinds of beer have also been made from other ingredients than barley-malt, among which may be named the grain of the cheaper cereals, bran, potatoes, turnips, beet- root, carrots, parsnips, pea-shells, and other vegetable substances rich in starch and sugar, all of which will produce beer by being mashed with water in the common way, with about 9 or log of barley-malt. Brown sugar and treacle have long been used in this manner; but the first, though theoretically unobjec- tionable, has the disadvantage of being more expensive than the natural sugar {saccharine) furnished by malt; a remark which also applies to treacle, even though the fiavour and the want of ‘keeping qualities’ in the beer pro- duced by it did not preclude its general use. 1 See page 89 (antfe). One quarter of the best barley-malt yields, I by skilful mashing, fully 84 lb. of ‘saccharine,^ | or soluble sweet extractive matter. This con- centrated within the compass of one barrel u' (36 gal.), gives a sp. gr. of 1-234. In the |j process of mashing, about ^ths of this quantity of saccharine (or 48 lb.) is generally carried off ' in the first wort; ^ths (or 24 lb.), in the ! second wort; and ^th (or 12 lb.), in the third wort; the strengths of the worts being to each other respectively as 4, 2, 1. According to certain interested parties, 107 lb. to 112 lb. of ‘ saccharine’ per quarter, may be obtained by Draper's process; but the assertion appears unsupported by evidence and experience. The i average gravity obtained by the common i brewers from malt of current quality, ranges t from 80 to 81 lb. 1 When the process of mashing has been pro- i perly conducted, the wort, after leaving the : cooler, should not be turned blue by tincture of iodine, or by iodide of potassium added along with a little acid. If it turns ‘blue’ some of the starch has escaped conversion into sugar, and is dissolved in the liquor. By multiplying the decimal part of the num- ber representing the specific gravity of a wort by i 360 (the weight in pounds of a barrel of pure water), we obtain the quantity of saccha- , EiNE, per barrel, corresponding to the given ' sp. gr.; and by dividing the joint weight of sac- charine and water, per barrel, by 360, we obtain the SPECIFIC GEAYITT. Thus— Decimal of sp. gr. *058 X 360 = 21 lb. per barrel (nearly). lb. per bar. 20 360 ggQ —I'Ooo specific gravity. It is usually stated in works on brewing that ‘certain temperatures’ must be reached , by each variety of beer, during the progress of 1 the fermentation, in order for the liquor to acquire its characteristic fiavour. Thus, it is stated, that—mild beer begins to acquire fla- vour when the heat of fermentation arrives at 75° Fahr., increases at 80°, and is highest at 90°, but sometimes even reaches 100°. Old ale is said to obtain its best flavour at a temperature not exceeding 75°; and porter at 70° Fahr. ' In order to reach these temperatures, the worts are directed to be set at from 10° to 15° lower, | the rise being due to the heat generated I during the fermentation. That these state- • ments refer principally to the old methods of t brewing is shown by the fact, that some of the brewers of Bavaria, Scotland, and Burton-on- ^ Trent, produce rich and high-flavoured liquors » at temperatures vastly below those above enu- , 1 merated. Still, however, the fact must not be concealed, that since the introduction of the * new German system of brewing into England, i the general character of its beers, as they J I reach the consumer, are inferior in strength | and flavour to those of a former period. We may now seek almost in vain for the fine I '