1180 SAGAPENUM—SALADS. liquoristes, it is largely used on account of its fine colour. Mead'ow Saffron. See Colchicum:. SAGAPE'NUM. This substance is described ill the London Pharmacopoeia as a gum resin, the production of an uncertain species of Ferula, The mass of the sagapenum sold to the retail trader is, however, a factitious article, formed by softening a mixture of asa* foetidaf 3 parts, and galbanum, 15 parts, over a water or steam bath, and then stirring in 'about -jlyth of their weight of oil of turpentine, with a little oil of juniper. This mixture is labelled ‘Gum. SAaAPENi Opt,' an inferior sort being made by adding sundry portions of yellow resin and paste of gum tragacanth to the above. - Peepaeed sagapenum (sagapenum PE-®- PAEATUM—Ph. L.) is ordered to be prepared in the same manner as ‘peepaeed ammo- NIACUM.' Obs. Sagapenum is the feeblest of all the fetid gum-resins. Dose. 5 to 15 gr., made into pills j as an antispasmodic and emmenagogue. SA'GO. Syn. Sago (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “ The fcecula (starch) from the stem of Sagus leevis, S. Rumphii, and, perhaps, of other species of palms." (Ph. L.) It forms the principal portion of the pith of the Sago palms, the Gommuti palm, the Talipot palm, and other allied trees. Its properties and uses, for the most part, resemble those of arrow-root. It is used for making puddings, jellies, &c. SAL. [L.] Salt. A word much used in compound names, handed down to us from the old chemists. " Sal Absin'thii. Carbonate of potassa. Sal Acetosellse. Binoxalate and quadrox- alate of potassa. • Sal Alem'broth. Double chloride of mer- cury and ammonium. - Sal Ammo"niac. Hydrochlorate of am- monia. Sal de Duobus. Sulphate of potassa. Sal Diure'ticus. Acetate of potassa. Sal Enix'um. Crude bisulphate of potassa. Sal Gem'mse. Eock or fossil salt (chloride of sodium). Sal Mar'tis. Sulphate of Iron. Sal Mirab'ile. Sulphate of soda. Sal Perla'tum. Phosphate of soda. Sal Polycrest'us. Sulphate of potassa. ‘ Sal PrunelTa. Syn. Soee-theoat salt, Ceystal mineeal; Potass^ niteas fusa, Niteum tabulatum, Sal peunell.®:, L. From nitre, fused in a Hessian crucible, and poured out on a smooth surface, or into moulds, to cool. Its usual form and size is that of an ordinary musket-bullet, with the tail, in which state it is known in the drug trade as ‘sal PEUNELLJE GLOBOSUM.* When ill cakes, it is often called ‘ sal p. in placentis,’ or ‘ s. p. TABULATUM.' A small portion allowed to dis- solve slowly in the mouth, the saliva being slowly swallowed, often removes incipient in- flammatory sore throat. Prod. 50§. Sal Saturn'i. Sugar of lead (neutral acet: of lead). Sal Seignette'. Rochelle salt (tartrate potassa and soda). Sal Volat'ile. Sesquicarbonate of a monia. The name is commonly used as abbreviation of ‘ aromatic spirit of ammoni See Spieits (Medicinal). SAL'ADS are generally made of escuh vegetables, either singly or mixed, cho? according to taste or time of year, a ‘ dressed' with oil, vinegar, and salt, and sou times also with mustard and other condimen Sliced boiled egg is a common addition. C(j meat, poultry, and game, sliced small, wi’ some cucumber or celery, and a little onion chopped parsley, or, instead of them, soi pickles, make a very relishing salad. Fish a also employed in the same manner. Let'tuce Salad. Prep. Take two large I tuces, remove the faded leaves and the coars' green ones; next cut the green tops off, pi each leaf off separately, rinse it in cold waU cut it lengthways, and then intoor j pieces; put these into a bowl, and sprinl over them, with your fingers, 1 small te spoonful of salt, ^ do. of pepper, 3 do. of sal oil, and 2 do. of English or 1 of French vinega then with the spoon and fork turn the sal lightly in the bowl until thoroughly mixe< the less it is handled the better. A te spoonful each of chopped chervil and tarrag is an immense improvement. Obs. The above seasoning is said to enough for i lb. of lettuce. According Soyer, it is “ such as the Italian count used make some years since, by which he made fortune in dressing salads for the tables of tl aristocracy." The above may be varied 1 the addition of 2 eggs, boiled hard, and slice a little eschalot, or a few chives or youi onions. Several other salad herbs, especial endive, water-cresses, and mustard-and-crei may be ‘dressed' in the same manner; alwa; remembering that the excellence of a saL depends chiefly on the vegetables which cor pose them being recently gathered and car fully cleansed. To improve the appearance of the abo' and other salads, when on the table or sid board, before being used, the gay flower of tl nasturtium or marygold, with a little slic( beet-root or radish, and sliced cucumber, be tastefully intermixed with them. Lobs'ter Salad. Prep. (Soyer.) “ Have tl bowl half filled with any kind of salad he\\ you like, as endive, lettuce, &c.; then break lobster in two, open the tail, extract the me in one piece, break the claws, cut the meat both in small slices, about a quarter of an in( thick, and arrange these tastefully on tl salad; next take out all the soft part from tl belly, mix it in a basin with 1 teaspoonful | salt, \ do. of pepper, 4 do. of vinegar, and 4 d of oil; stir these well together, and pour tl mixture on the salad; lastly, cover it with'