LIQUEUK. 849 i water and clean soft water, of each, 1 I (luavt; lastly, colour the liquid by steeping in I it of hay saffron, oz. This cordial was once I lield in much esteem. It derives its name I from a small quantity of gold leaf being for- merly added to it. j Iluile d’Anis. See Ciiemb d’Anis {above). I Iluile de Vanille. Flavoured with essence or j tincture of vanilta. It is kept in a decanter, I and used to flavour liqueurs, grog, &c. j Huiie de Venus. Prep. From the flowers of the wild carrot, 2^ oz., and sugar, 3 lb. to ! the gall. It is generally coloured by infusing I a little powdered cochineal in it. Jargonelle. Syn. Jargonelle cordial. Flavoured with essence of jargonelle pear (ace- tate OF amyl). Pine-apple cordial and j liqueurs from some other fruits are also pre- pared from the new fruit essences. See Es- sence. Lem'on Cordial. Prep. Digest fresh and dried lemon peel, of each, 2 oz., and fresh orange peel, 1 oz., in j)roof spirit, 1 gall., for a week; strain with expression, add of clear soft water, q. s. to reduce it to the desired strength, and lump sugar, 3 lb. to the gallon. The addition of a little orange-flower or rose water improves it. Liquodilla. Flavoured with oranges and le- mons, of each, sliced, 3 in number; with sugar, 2^ lb. per gall. Lo/age Cordial. Prep. From the fresh roots of lovage, 1 oz. to the gallon. A fourth of this quantity of the fresh roots of celery and sweet fennel are also commonly added. In some parts alittle/rcsA valerian root and oil of savine ! are added before distillation. It is much va- ! lued by the lower classes in some of the pro- I vinces for its stomachic and emmenagogue qualities. I Oil of Ce'drat. See Creme de Cedrat i {above). O'range Cordial. Like lemon cordial or CEEME d’orange, from fresh orange peel, ^ lb. to the gallon. ^ Parfait Amour. Syn. Perfect Love. Prep. Flavoured with the yellow rind of 4 lemons, and a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla to the gal- lon, with sugar, 3 lb., and powdered cochineal, q. s. to colour. Pep'permint. Syn Peppermint cordial. Sportsman’s c., X. mint; Eau de chas- seurs, Fr. This well-known compound is in greater demand in every part of the kingdom than all the other cordials put together. Prep. 1. From peppermint water and or plain sjnrit (22 u. p.), of each, 1 pint; lump sugar, lb. 2. (Wholesale.) English oil of peppermint, 5 oz. is added to rectified spirit of wine, 3 pints, and the mixture is agitated well together for some time in a corked bottle capable of holding 4 pints or more ; it is then emptied into a cask having a capacity of itpwards of 100 gall., and perfectly white and flavourless proof spirit, 36 gall., is poured in, and the whole well agitated for 10 minutes; a solution of the best double reflned lump sugar, 2f cwt., in about 35 gall, of 2)ure filtered rain water, is then added, and the contents of the cask well ‘ rummaged up,’ in the usual manner, for at least 15 minutes; sufneient clear rain water to make up the whole quantity to exactly 100 gallons, and holding in solution alum, 5 oz., is next added, and the whole is again well agitated for at least a quar- ter of an hour, after which the cask is bunged down, and allowed to repose for a fortnight before it is ‘ broached ’ for sale. Obs. The last formula produces a beautiful article, provided the ingredients are of good quality. Care on this point is particularly necessary in reference to the essential oil, which should only be purchased of some known re- spectable dealer. That prepared at Mitcham, Surrey, and hence called ‘ Mitcham oil of peppermint,’ is not only the strongest, but the best flavoured, and though more than double the price of the foreign oil, is, in the long run, much the cheapest. The sugar should be suffi- ciently pure to dissolve in a wine-glassful of clear soft water without injuring its trans- parency, and the cash should be a fresh- emptied gin pipe, or one properly prepared for gin, as, if it gives colour, it will spoil the cor- dial. When these particulars are attended to, the product is a ‘bright’ transparent liquor as soon as made, and does not require fining. Should there be the slightest opacity, the addition of 2 oz. of salt of tartar, dissolved in a quart of hot water, will have the effect of “ clearing it down” in the course of a few days. The product is 100 gall, of cordial at 64 u. p. Pimen'to. Syn. Pimento cordial. Pimento DRAM. Rather strongly flavoured with allspice ov pimento. It has obtained a great repute in the West Indies in diarrhoea, cholera, and bowel complaints generally. Rasp'berry Cordial. Prep. From raspberry brandy, capillaire, and water, equal parts. A similar article is prepared by flavouring sweet- ened spirit with the new ‘raspberry essence.’ Rat'ifia. The numerous liqueurs bearing this name are noticed in another part of this volume. See Ratifia. Shrub. See the article Shrub in another part of this work. Sighs of Love. Prep. 1. Evom proof spirit flavoured with otto of roses and capillaire, equal parts. 2. From sugar, 6 lb. ; pure soft water, q. s. to produce a gallon of syrup, to which add, of eau de rose, 1 pint; proof spirit, 7 pints. It is stained of a pale pink by powdered cochineal. A very pleasant cordial. A drop or two (not more) of essence of ambergris or vanilla im- px’oves it. Tea.rs of the Widow of Malabar. Prep. As BALM OF Molucca, but employing cloves (bruised), \ oz., mace (shredded), 1 dr., and a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla for fla- vouring. Some add of orange-flower water, 54