MORPHINE. 926 consistence of a syrup by steam or water heat, and set aside the residuum for a few days until it solidifies. Pur. “ Soluble in water and rectified spirit” (less so in the last than the other); “ and when the spirit is distilled from the solution, it yields crystals which are totally destroyed by heat.” (Ph. L.) “ 100 measures of a solution of 10 gr. in ^ fl. oz. of water, and 5 minims of acetic acid, heated to 212° and decomposed by a very slight excess of ammonia, yield by agi- tation a precipitate which, in 24 hours, occu- pies 15|- measures of the liquid.” (Ph. E.) Obs. The acetate of morphine of commerce is usually in the form of a whitish powder, and is prepared by the mere evaporation of the solution to dryness by a gentle heat. During the process a portion of the acetic acid is dis- sipated, and hence this preparation is seldom perfectly soluble in water, unless it has been slightly acidulated with acetic acid. In the Ph. L. 1851 this salt (in crystals) is included in the materia medica. See Moephine {above). Hydri'odate of Morphine. Sijn. Moephi^ HYDEYIODAS, L. Prep. (A. T. Thomson.) Hydrochlorate of morphine, 2 parts; iodide of potassium, 1 part; dissolve each separately in a little water, mix the solutions, wash the pre- cipitate in a little very cold water, press it in bibulous paper, redissolve it in hot water, and crystallize. Hydrochlo'Tate of Morphine. Syn. Mu- EIATE OF MOEPHIA; MOEPHI^ HYDHOCHLO- EAS (Ph. L.), Moephi-15 mueias (Ph. E. D. & U. S.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Macerate sliced opium, 1 lb., in water, 4 joints, for 30 hours; then bruise it, digest it for 20 hours more, and press it; macerate what remains a second, and a third time in water until ex- hausted, and as often bruise and press it; mix the liquors, and evaporate at 140° Fahr. to the consistence of a syrup; add of water, 3 pints, and after defecation decant the clear portion; gradually add to this liquid crys- tallized chloride of lead, 2 oz. (or q. s.), dis- solved in boiling water, 4 pints, until it ceases to produce a precipitate; decant the clear liquid, wash the residuum with water, and evaporate the mixed liquids, as before, that crystals may form; press these in a cloth, then dissolve them in distilled water, 1 pint, add freshly burnt animal charcoal, 1| oz., digest at 120°, and filter; finally, the charcoal being washed, cautiously evaporate the mixed liquors, that pure crystals of hydrochlorate of morjjhia may form. To the decanted liquor from which the crystals were first separated, add of water, 1 pint, and drop in liquor of ammonia, fre- quently shaking, until all the morphine is precipitated; wash this ’precipitate with cold distilled water, saturate it with hydrochloric acid, digest with animal charcoal, 2 oz.; filter, wash the filter as before, and evaporate the mixed liquors, cautiously, as above, that pure crystals may be obtained. I 2. (Ph. E.) Opium, 20 oz., is exhausted with water, 1 gall., in the quantity of a quart at a time, and the mixed liquors are evaporated to a pint; chloride of calcium, 1 oz., dissolved in water, 4 fl. oz., is added, and, after agitation, the liquid is placed aside to settle; the clear decanted liquid, and the washings of the sedi- ment, are next evaporated, so that they may solidify on cooling; the cooled mass, after very strong pressure in a cloth, is redissolved in warm water, a little powdered white marble added, and the whole filtered; the filtrate is acidulated with hydrochloric acid, the solution again concentrated for crystallization, and the crystals submitted to powerful pressure, as before; the process of solution, clarification with powdered marble and hydrochloric acid, and crystallization, is repeated until a snow- white mass is obtained. This is the process of Gregory and Robertson, and is one of the easiest and most productive on the large scale. To procure the salt quite white, 2 to 4 crys- tallizations are required,* according to the power of the press employed. The Edinburgh College recommends, on the small scale, the solution, after two crystallizations, to be deco- loured by means of animal charcoal; but, on the large scale, to purify the salt by repeated crystallizations alone. 3. (Mohr.) By dissolving the precipitate of morphine (see Moephine, prep. 4) in dilute hydrochloric acid, and by crystallization, as before. Pur., ^c. It “ is completely soluble in rec- tified spirit, and in water. -What is precipitated from the aqiieous solution by nitrate of silver is not entirely dissolved, either by ammonia, unless added in excess, or by hydrochloric or nitric acid.” (Ph. L.) “ Snowy white; en- tirely soluble; solution colourless; loss of weight at 212° Fahr. not above 13g; 100 mea- sures of a solution of 10 gr., in water, ^ fl. oz., heated to 212°, and decomposed with agitation by a faint excess of ammonia, yield a preci- pitate which, in 24 hours, occupies 12^ mea- sures of the liquid.” (Ph. E.) It takes 20 parts of cold and about its own weight of boiling water to dissolve it. The hydrochlo- rate of morphine of the shops is usiaally, like the acetate, under the form of a white crys- talline powder. Obs. Of all the salts of morphine, this one appears to be that most suitable for medical purposes, from its free solubility, and from its solution not being liable to spontaneous de- composition, at least under ordinary circum- stances. The opium which yields the largest quantity of precipitate by carbonate of soda, yields muriate of morphine, not only in the greatest proportion, but also with the fewest crystallizations.” (Ph. E.) Smyrna opium con- tains the most morphine. Morphine and Codeine (Hydrochlorate of). Sign. Geegoey’s salt ; Moephle et codeia HYDEOCHLOEAS, L. ; SeL DE GeEGOEY, Fr. This is commercial hydeochloeate of