KIBES—KINO. 811 Pon'tac Ketchup. Prep. Take of the juice of elderberries and strong vinegar, of each, 1 pint; anchovies, ^ lb, ; shalots and spice, q. s. to flavour ; boil for 5 minutes, cool, strain, and bottle. Used to make fish sauces. ! Toma'to Ketchup. Prep. Prepared from jl tomatoes or love apples, like mushroom ketchup, I except that a little very strong Chili vinegar is commonly added. An admirable relish for ‘ hi^h’ or rich flavoured viands. Wal'nut Ketchup. Prep. 1. Take of the expressed juice of young walnuts, when tender, 1 gall.; boil 10 minutes, skim, add of ancho- vies, 2 lb.; shalots, 1 lb.; cloves and mace, of each, 1 oz.; 1 clove of garlic, sliced; simmer I in a covered vessel for 15 minutes, strain, cool, i| and bottle, adding a little fresh spice to each i! bottle, and salt, q. s. Will keep good ui a cool place for 20 years. 2. Take of green walnut shells, 16 gall.; i salt, 5 lb. ; mix and beat together for a week, press out the liquor, and to every gallon add, of ; allspice, 4 oz. ; ginger, 3 oz. ; pepper and cloves, I of each, 2 02-.,• all bruised; simmer for half an 1 hour, and set aside in a closed vessel and in a ' cool situation until sufficiently clear. 3. Take of walnut juice, 1 gall.; vinegar, 1 quart; British anchovies (sprats), 3 or 4/6./ pimento, 3 oz,; ginger, ^ oz.; long pepper, ^ oz.; cloves, 1 oz.; shalots, 2 oz. / boil and bottle, as before. 4. From the juice of walnut shells, 30 gall.; salt, 1 bushel; allspice and shalots, of each, 6 lb.; ginger, garlic, and horse-radish, of each, 3 lb.; essence of anchovies, 3 gall.; as 1 before. i Wine Ketchup. Prep. Take of mushroom or walnut ketchup, 1 quart; chopped ancho- vies, \ lb.; 20 shalots; scraped horse-radish, 2 oz.; spice, q. s.; simmer for 15 minutes, I cool, and add of white and red wine, of each, 1 pint; macerate for 1 week, strain, and bottle. General remarks. In preparing the above articles, vessels of glazed earthenware, or stone- ware, or well-tinned copper pans, should alone be used to contain them whilst being boiled or heated, as salt and vegetable juices rapidly corrode copper, and render the ketchup poi- sonous. Nothing in the shape of copper, lead, or pewter, should be allowed to touch them. Even a plated copper spoon left in a bottle of ketchup for some time will render its contents poisonous. Unpleasant and even dangerous fits of vomiting, colic, and diarrhoea, have re- sulted from the neglect of this precaution. See Sauce, &c. KIBES. The vulgar name for ulcerated chilbains. KID'NEYS. Syn. Renes, L. (In anatomy.) The kidneys, as almost every one knows, are abdominal viscera which secrete the urine, and form the great channels by wl'ich the effete nitrogenous matter is removed from the blood. I They are subject to various affections, both i functional and organic, chronic and acute, of which some are imperfectly understood, and others only admit of alleviation, but not of being cured. See Ueine and Ueinaey Af- FECTIONS. Kidneys. (In cookery.) Soyer recommends kidneys to be dressed by gently broiling them, having previously split them, “ so as nearly to divide them, leaving the fat in the middle,” and “ run a skewer through them, that they may remain open.” After being rubbed with a little butter, and seasoned with salt and pep- per, “ they may be served on toast, or wdth any sauce.” “ You may also egg and bread- crumb them.” “ Five minutes suffice for a sheep or lamb’s kidney of common size.” (Soyer.) One or two lamb’s kidneys, plainly broiled and served up with the gravy in them, eaten along with a little dry-toasted bread, form a most excellent and appropriate luncheon or dinner for a dyspeptic or conva- lescent. KING’S CUP. Prep. Yellow peel of \ lemon ; lump sugar, H oz. ; cold water, 1 pint; infuse 8 or 10 hours, and strain. The addition of a teaspoonful of orange fiower water is a great improvement. Used as a diluent in cases where acid liquors are inadmissible. See Lemonade. KING’S E'VIL. See Sceofula. KING’S YEL'LOW. See Yellow Pig- ments. KI'NIC ACID. Syn. Cinchonic acid, Qdinic a. a peculiar dibasic acid occurring in the cinchona barks, in which it exists asso- ciated with the alkaloids. Prep. It is readily obtained from kinate of lime, by the action of dilute sulphuric acid; the filtered solution evaporated to the consistence of a syrup, gra- dually deposits large crystals resembling those of tartaric acid. Prop., S^'c. It is soluble in 2 parts of water, and in alcohol; and forms salts called kinates. Kinate of lime is obtained from an acidu- lated infusion of cinchona bark, by adding an excess of lime, filtering, evaporating to a syrup, and setting the liquid aside to crys- tallize. These crystals are purified by redis- solving them, treating the solution with a little animal charcoal, and crystallizing the salt as before. The liquid from which the bark-alkaloids have been precipitated by hy- drate of lime affords an almost inexhaustible supply of this salt. See Kinone. KI'NO. Syn. Gum kino; KiNO(Ph. L. E. &D.). “The juice flowing from the incised bark of the Plerocarpus Marsupium” or Indian kino-tree, “ hardened in the sun.” (Ph. L.) The “ concrete juice of Plerocarpus erinaceus, and of other undetermined genera and species.” (Ph. D.) Bose. 10 to 30 gr., in powder; as an astringent in chronic diarrhoea, &c. Factitious Kino, met with in the shops, is made as follows :—Logwood, 48 lb. ; tormentil root, 16/6.; madder root, 12 lb.; exhaust by coction with water, q. s.; to the liquor add of catechu, 16 lb.; dissolve, strain, and evaporate