1112 POTASSA. CEEAM OF TAETAE; POTASSAE EOEO-TAETEAS, Ceemoe taetaei soltjbilis, L.; Ceeme DE TAETEE SOLUBLE, Pr. Prep. (P. Cocl.) Crijs- iallized boracic acid, 1 part; bitartrate of po- tassa, 4 parts; water, 24 parts; dissolve by the aid of heat, in a silver basin, and, con- stantly stirring, evaporate the resulting solu- tion, either to dryness, and then powder it, or merely to a syrupy consistence, when it may be spread upon plates, and dried in scales, by the heat of a stove. It must afterwards be preserved from the air. Prop., 8fc. A white, deliquescent powder, freely soluble in water. It has been used as a solvent for lithic calculi, and in gout, &c. Dose. 15 to 30 gr. In doses of 2 to 4 dr. it is laxative, and is very popular as such on the Continent. Car'bonates of Potassa. With carbonic acid potassa forms two important salts, the ‘ car- bonate’ and ‘bicarbonate’:— 1. Car'bonate of Potassa. Sijji. Subcaebon- ATE OE POTASUf, SALT OE TAETAEf, PeEEAEED KALif, Fixed niteeI, Mild tegetable al- KALlf; POTASSjE caeboxas (Ph. L. E. & D.), POTASSAE SUBCAEBOXASf, KaLI PE^PA- EATUEU, Sal taetaei, L. Impure or crude carbonate of potassa is chiefly imported from America and Russia, and is obtained by lixi- viating wood ashes, and evaporating the solu- tion to dryness. The mass is then transferred into iron pots, and is hept in a state of fusion for several hours, until it becomes quiescent, when the heat is withdrawn, and the whole is left to cool. It is next broken up and packed in air-tight barrels, and in this state consti- tutes the ‘ potashes’ or ‘ potash’ of com- merce. Another method is to transfer the black salts, or product of the first evaporation, from the kettles to a large oven or furnace, so constructed that the flame is made to play over the alkaline mass, which is kept con- stantly stirred by means of an iron rod. The ignition is continued until the impurities are burned out, and the mass changes from a blackish tint to a dirty or bluish white. The whole is next allowed to cool, and is then broken into fragments, and packed in casks as before. It now constitutes ‘ peaelash ’ (lixi- TUS CiNis—Ph. D.). When either potash or pearlash is dissolved in cold distilled water, the solution, depurated, filtered, and crystallized, or simply evaporated to dryness, it forms ‘ ee- EIXED ASHES,’ 01’ carbonate of potash sufli- ciently pure for most pharmaceutical and tech- nical purposes. The geaxulated caeboxate OE POTASH, SALT OE TAETAE, Or PEEPAEED KALI, of the shops, is simply refined ashes which, during the evaporation, and more especially tov/ards the conclusion of the desiccation, has been assiduously stirred, so that it may form small white granulations, instead of adhering together to form an amorphous solid mass. In this state it constitutes the ordinary cae- boxate OE POTASSA of the Pharmacopoeias. Prep. 1. (POTASSAE CAEBOXAS E LIXIYE CiXEEE—Ph. D.) Pearlash, 10 lb. ; distilld j water (cold), 1 gall.; macerate for a weeli occasionally stirring the mixture; filter the (di \ purated) solution through calico, and havin I evaporated it nearly to dryness (in an irci i vessel), reduce the heat, and stir constant’ | with an iron rod, until granular crystals ai i obtained, which are to be immediately enclose j in well-stopped bottles (or otherwise exclude, | from the air). The formula of the Ph. L. 181 i was similar, except in directing simple sohi < tion instead of “ digestion for a week.” T1 corresponding preparation of the Ph. L. & li is included in the Materia Medica. 2. (M. Alej’er.) jyo/cs/i, 10 parts, is di solved in cold water, 6 parts, and the solutic is allowed to remain for 24 hours, in a co place; it is then filtered, and somewhat coi; centrated by evaporation, crystallization beir prevented by continually stirring the ina until the whole is nearly cold; it is next d, i canted into a strainer, and the mother-liquc (containing chloride of potassium and silica- of potassa) allowed to drip off; the residuu : is evaporated to dryness at a gentle heat, ai redissolved in an equal quantity of cold di< tilled water ; the new solution, after filtratio is again evaporated to dryness. The produ Is quite free from sulphate of potassa, and nearly free from both chloride of potassiu and silicates. 3. (PUEE CAEBOXATE OE POTASSA; P.OTA SAE CAEBOXAS PUEUM—Ph. E. & D., and Ph.' 1836.)—a. (Ph. L. 1836.) From bicarbonate potassa, in crystals, heated to redness in a cr cible. b. (Ph. E.) As the last. Or, more cheapl by dissolving bitartrate of potassa in thir ; parts of boiling water, separating and washii' the crystals which form on cooling, heatii them in a loosely covered crucible to redne so long as fumes are discharged, breakir down the mass, and roasting it in an oven f two hours, with occasional stirring; lixiviatii the product with (cold) distilled water, filtf ing the solution thus obtained, evaporating to dryness, granulating the salt towards tl close by brisk agitation, and, lastly, heatii the granular salt thus obtained nearly redness. The potass,e caeboxas e taeta CETSTALLis—Ph. D. 1826, and the potass SUBCAEBOXAS PUEISSIMUS—Ph. E. 1817, we prepared in a nearly similar manner, the cv poration being ordered in a “ vessel of silver c. (Ph. D.) White bitartrate of potassa, 21 is exposed to a red heat in an iron crucible, before ; the powdered calcined mass is boih for 20 minutes in water, 1 quart, the soluti' filtered, and the filter washed with water, pint, to which sesquicarbonate of ammonia, oz., has.been added; the mixed and filten liquors are evaporated to dryness, and, a Ic red heat having been applied, the residuum rapidly reduced to powder in a warm mort:!| and at once enclosed in (dry and) well-stopp4 bottles.