QUININE. 1158 the same purpose as the carbonate of soda is used for by the Edinburgh College. The methods patented by Mr. Edward Herring and by Dr. W. B. Herapath are simply modifica- tions of the above. 3. (Ph. D.) Yellow hark, 1 lb., is macerated for 24 hours in water, 2 quarts, acidulated with oil of vitriol, 2 fl. dr., and then boiled for half an hour, after which the fluid is de- canted ; this is repeated a second and a third time with water, 2 quarts, and oil of vitriol, 1 fl. dr.; the decanted (or strained) liquors are evaporated to a quart, and filtered, and slaked lime, 1 oz., or q. s., added to the solution until it exhibits a decidedly alkaline reaction; the precipitate is next collected on a calico filter, and, after having been washed with cold water, partially dried on porous bricks, and subjected to powerful pressure enveloped in blotting paper, is boiled for 20 minutes in rectified spirit, 1 pint, and the liquid, after subsidence, decanted; this is repeated a second and a third time with a fresh pint of spirit, and the resi- duum being well pressed, the mixed liquors are filtered, and the spirit removed by distillation; the brown viscid residuum is dissolved in boiling water, 16 fi. oz., boiled, and dilute sul- phuric acid, f fl. oz., or q. s., added to render the solution neutral or only slightly acid; animal charcoal, ^ oz., is next stirred in, the mixture boiled for about 5 minutes, filtered, and set aside to crystallize; the crystals are dried on blotting paper, by. mere exposure to a dry atmosphere. Obs. This process is a modification of that of M. Henry. When adopted on the large scale, either freshly slaked lime or milk of lime is used, the resulting precipitate, after being drained on a filter, is submitted to pow- erful hydraulic pressure, and the tinctures formed by exhausting the dry cake merely reduced by distillation to a syrupy consistence. The addition of the acid is also sometimes made to the tincture, and, at other times, to the hot aqueous solution, as above. The iise of spirit of wine does not increase the expense above |rf. to Id. per oz,, which is more than counterbalanced by the saving of time and the superiority of the product. 4. (‘Hospital sulphate’—Mr. E. Her- ring.) The crushed bark is boiled in a solution of caustic soda or potassa, to extract colouring matter and gum; it is then pressed, washed with cold water, a second time boiled with a solution of caustic alkali, and again pressed, washed, and pressed ; the decoloured and puri- fied bark is next exhausted by coction with acidulated water, in the usual way, and the filtered mixed decoctions are precipitated with carbonate of soda; the precipitated quina is then dissolved in hot dilute sulphuric acid, to saturation, when the ‘ hospital sulphate ’ crystallizes out, as the solution cools; this is, lastly, washed with a little cold water, drained, and dried.—The advantage of this process is the non-use of animal charcoal as a bleacher. and the consequent less cost of the product. In the preparation of his ‘ white sulphate, Mr. Herring uses benzol as a solvent, instead of alcohol. Patent dated July 28th, 1853. Prop. When pure, it forms very light delicate, flexible, white needles, which arc efflorescent, inodorous, and intensely bitter it is soluble in 740 parts of water at 60°, and in 30 parts at 212° Eahr.; it takes about 8( parts of cold rectified spirit for its solution but is freely soluble in boiling alcohol, and ii acidulated water; it melts at 240° Falir,, and is charred and destroyed at a heat below that of redness. The crystals contain 76Tg o quinine, 8‘7§ of sulphuric acid, and 15-2= o water; of the last, they lose about 3-4thshy exposure to dry air, and nearly the whole when kept in a state of fusion for some time. Pur. This may be inferred from the forn of its crystallization. “ It is entirely solubh in water (hot), and more readily so when ai acid is present. Precipitated by ammonia the residuary liquid, after evaporation, sbouh not taste of sugar. By a gentle heat it lost 8 or log of water. It is wholly consumed k heat. If chlorine be first added, and theij^ ammonia, it becomes green.” (Ph. L. 1836. “ On adding chloride of barium to 100 gr. o this salt, dissolved in water mixed with hydro- chloric acid, 26*6 gr. of sulphate of baryta dried at a red heat, are prepared.” (Ph. I 1851.) “A solution of 10 gr. in 1 fl.oz. o distilled water, and 2 or 3 drops of sulphuri acid, if decomposed by a solution of i oz. o carbonate of soda, in t^vo waters, and heate> until the precipitate shrinks and fuses, yields on cooling, a solid mass, which, wdien drj’ w'eighs 7‘4 gr., and when reduced to powdei dissolves entirely in a solution of oxalic acid. (Ph. E.) Adult. Sulphate of quinine is often adu/ f -r terated with starch, magnesia, gum, sugan cinchonine, quinidine, &c. The first thn remain undissolved when the salt is digestt in spirit; the fourth is dissolved out by col ■wmter; the fifth may be detected by its toti insolubility in ether; or, by precipitating th quinine by liquor of potassa, and dissolvin the precipitate in boiling alcohol; cinchoniii crystallizes out as the solution cools, but th quinine remains in the mother-liquor; an the last, by the greater solubility and sp. gi of the salt, &c., as noticed at page 1155. 1 the sample disengages ammoniacal fumes whe treated with liquor of potassa, it contains ammoniac. The presence of most foreign oi ganic substances is also shown by the sampi being turned brown, and being soon charre when treated with a drop of concentrated su phuric acid. If it turn red it contains salici) a substance which is now frequently used t adulterate sulphate of quinine. The pui sulphate is not discoloured by this reagent. Uses, 4*c. The sulphate is more extensive! employed than any of the other salts of quinini and, indeed, to almost the exclusion of then