826 LEAD. When a cold saturated solution of neutral ace- tate of lead is mixed with about ^th of its volume of concentrated liquor of ammonia, and set aside in a covered vessel, after a time minute, anhydrous, crystalline needles are de- posited. b. Litharge (in fine powder), 7 parts; ace- tate of lead, 6 parts; water, 30 parts; digest at a moderate heat for some time, with con- stant agitation. By evaporation out of contact with air, small crystals may be obtained. Obs. This salt is the principal constituent of the so-called ^ liquoe plumbi diacetatis" —Ph. L. (Goulaed watee). See Solution. 4. (Sexbasic acetate, hexacetate.) By digesting a solution of either of the above basic acetates with excess of litharge. A crystalline precipitate. Arse"niate of Lead. Syn. Aesenate oe l. j Plumbi aesenias. L. Prep. Gradually add a solution of acetate of lead to another of ar- seniate of soda. A white, insoluble powder. Proposed as an external application in certain forms of cancer. Black Lead. See Plumbago. Bro'mide of Lead. Syn. Plumbi beomidum, L. Prep. By precipitating a solution of neutral acetate or nitrate of lead with a solution of bro- mide of potassium. A white, crystalline pow- der, sparingly soluble in water. It fuses by heat into a red liquid, which turns yellow when cold. It has been used in the same cases as iodide op lead. Car'bonate of Lead. Syn. Plumbi caebo- NAS, L. Prep. By precipitating a cold solu- tion of either acetate or nitrate of lead with a solution of an alkaline carbonate, observing to well wash the precipitate and dry it in the shade. This preparation is seldom employed, the commercial carbonate (white lead) being substituted for it. See White Pigments. Chlo"ride of Lead. Syn. Mueiate op lead ; Plumbi chloeidum, P. mueias, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1336.) Dissolve acetate of lead, 19 oz., in boiling water, 3 pints; next dissolve chloride of sodium, 6 oz., in boiling water, 1 pint; mix the two solutions, and when cold, wash and dry the precipitate. A white, crys- talline powder. 2. Dissolve finely powdered litharge in boiling dilute hydrochloric acid, and set aside the filtered solution to cool. Brilliant colourless needles. Prop. Soluble in 135 parts of cold and in 22 parts of boiling water; it melts when heated, and solidifies on cooling, forming a horn-like substance (hoen lead ; plumbi coe- neum). Uses, Sfc. In the Ph. L. 1836 chloride of lead was ordered to be employed in the pre- paration of ‘ htdeochloeate op moephia.^ Mr. Tuson highly recommends it in can- cerous affections, to allay pain and restrain morbid action, either in the form of a lotion \ or ointment. I Obs. An OXTCHLOEIDE OP LEAD, precipi- I tated by rapidly mixing a boiling solution of chloride of lead with an equal volume of pure lime water, is used as a white pigment under the name of ‘ Pattison’s white.’ Another, called ‘ PATENT yellow’ or ‘ Tuenee’s yel- low,’ is also employed as a pigment. Chro'mates of Lead. Lead forms with chromic acid two well-defined compounds, much used as pigments:— 1. Neutral Chromate of Lead. Syn. Cheo- MATE OP L.; PlUMBI CHEOMAS, L. Prep. By adding a filtered solution of acetate or nitrate of lead to a like solution of chromate of potassa, as long as a precipitate forms, which is collected, washed with water, and dried. For information respecting the manufac- ture of this substance on the large scale, as a colouring substance (cheome yellow), see Yellow Pigments. 2. Bichromate of Lead. Prep. By adding to a solution of nitrate or acetate of lead a solu- tion of chromate of potassa, to whieh an equi- valent of hydrate of potassa has been added. This compound, known in the arts as ‘ cheome EED,’ is of a splendid scarlet colour. See Red Pigments. Cy'anide of Lead. Syn. Plumbi cyani- DUM, P. CYANUEETUM, L. Prep. By adding hydrocyanic acid to a solution of acetate of lead, as long as a precipitate forms, which, after being washed with distilled water, is dried by a very gentle heat, and preserved from the light and air. Sometimes used as a source of medicinal hydeocyanic acid. Granula'ted Lead. Prep. By melting new lead, and pouring it in a small stream, from an iron ladle with a hole drilled in its bottom, into a pail of water. Used to make solutions and alloys. I'odide of Lead. Syn. Plumbi iodidum (Ph. L. E. & D.), P. lODUEETUM, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Acetate of lead, 8 oz.; water, 6 pints; dissolve, and add to the solution iodide of po- tassium, 7 oz., dissolved in water, 1 quart; wash the precipitate with cold distilled water, dry it, and keep it without the access of light. 2. (Ph. E.) Iodide of potassium and nitrate of lead, of each, 1 oz.; dissolve each separately in water, f pint; mix the solutions, collect the precipitate on a calico or linen filter, and wash it with water; then boil it in water, 3 gall., previously soured with pyroligneous (acetic) acid, 3 fl. oz.; let the solution settle (still keeping it near the boiling-point), and decant the clear portion; as the liquid cools, the iodide subsides in brilliant golden-yellow lamellae, or minute crystals. The formula of the Ph. D. is similar. Prop., &(c. A rich yellow-coloured powder, soluble in acetic acid, alcohol, and boiling water; when heated, it fuses and volatilizes iu yellow vapour, but with a higher degree of heat, violet vapours of iodine are evolved, I leaving a residuum (lead) which is wholly I soluble in nitric acid. “ If sulphate of soda I be added to 100 gr. of the iodide of lead dis-