177 ANOKEXV—ANTHllAOlTJiJ. 1 I I MAUX, Fr. j Anomalisch, Ac., Ger. In pa- thology, &c., irregular, unusual; abnormal. I AN'OREXY. Syn. Anoeex'ia, L. j Ano- i EEXIE, Fr., Ger. In pathology, want of, or i morbidly diminished appetite, without loath- i ing of food. It is usually syinptomatic of other affections. See Appetite, DYSPErsiA, &c. I ANORM'AL. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Anoe'mis, L. Abnormal (which see). ANO ZABAGLIONE (-bal-y’o'-na). Prep. Put 2 eggs, 3 tea-spoonfuls of sugar, and 2 small I glassfuls of sherry or marsala, into a chocolate I cup, placed in boiling water, or over the fire, I and keep the mixture rapidly stirred until it I begins to rise and thicken a little; then add 1 or 2 tea-spoonfuls of orange-flower water or I rose water, and serve it up in wine-glasses. I A pleasant Italian domestic remedy for a cold. ' AN'SERES (-ser-ez). [L.] Syn. Ax'sees, Eng. The third Linnean order of birds, corre- I sponding to the Cuvian order ^palmip'edes ’ j (which see). I ANT (ant). Syn. Emm'et, Pis'miee*!; (piz'-) j i Foemi'ca, L. ; Fouemi, Fr.; Ameise, Ger.; I .®MET, Sax. This well known little insect i belongs to the family formi"cid(S,2indi the order j hymenop'tera. Like the bee, it is a social ' animal, lives in communities which may be ■ compared to well-regulated I’epublics, and is of I three sexes—male, female, and neuter. Those j belonging to the last alone labour and take I care of the ova and young. The red ant con- i tains FOEMic acid {acid of ants), and a pe- Iculiar EESixors oil. Both of these may be ^obtained by maceration in rectified spirit. A tincture so prepared, and flavoured with aro- matics, constitutes Hoffman’s Eau de Magna- XIMITE, once greatly esteemed as an aphrodisiac. See Foemica, Foemic Acid, Foemyle, &c. I ANTACID (-tas'-id). Syn. AntacTdus, L. ; ! Antacide, &c., Fr.; Saueetilgend, &c., I Ger. An epithet of agents which neutralise I acids or remove acidity; alkaline j absorbent. (See below.) \ ANTACTDS (-tas'-idz). Syn. AntacTda, ! L.; Antacides, &c., Fr. Antacid substances; I alkalies; absorbents. In medicine, 6fc., sub- stances which remove or prevent acidity of the stomach, and thus tend to relieve heartburn, j dyspepsia, and diarrhoea. ; The principal antacids are potassa, soda, am- i monia, lime, and magnesia, with their carbo- \ nates and bicarbonates. Ammonia is the j most powerful, and when the acidity is con- j joined with nausea and faintness, or is accom- ; panied with symptoms of nervous derange- j ment or hysteria, is undoubtedly the best when great irritability of the coats of the stomach exist, potash is to be preferred j when the acidity is accompanied with diar- ; rhoea, carbonate of lime (prepared chalk), lime-ivater, or Carara-water and when with I ’ See Liquid Ammoxia, Cakboxates or A., Sal Volatile, &c. - See Potassa, Cabboxate ok P., Bicakbo.xate of P., Liquor of P., &c. 3 See these articles. costiveness, magnesia.^ Fhey may all be ad- vantageously combined with some simple aromatic, as ginger, cinnamon, or peppermint. Their preparation, doses, administration, &c., will be found under each in its alphabetical place; and formulae containing them, under Deaughts, Lozenges, Mixtijees, &c. On their general properties and the danger attend- ing their abuse, see Absoebents, Alkali, Sesquicaebonate of Ammonia, Caebonate OF Soda, Soda-watee, &c. ANTAG'ONISM. Syn. Antagonis'mus, L.; Antagonisms, Fr.; Wechselkampf, Ger. In anatomy and physiology, opposite action, applied to muscles; in medicine, counter-irri- tation (which see). ANTAL'GICS (-tal'-). Syn. Antal'gica, L. Medicines which relieve pain; anodynes. ANTAL'KALINES (ant-al'-ka-linz). Syn. Antalkali'na, L. Agents or medicines which correct alkalinity. All the acids, except the carbonic, are antalkaline. ANTAPHRODISIACS, Aiitaphrodit'ics (ant- af-). See Anapheodisiacs. ANTE-. In composition, before, contrary, opposite; generally in the first sense. See Anti-. ANTENN'.ffi (-ten'-e). [L.; pi. of antenn’a?^ In entomology, the movable, tubular, and jointed sensiferous organs growing on the heads of insects and crustaceans, and popu- larly called ‘ feelers ’ or ‘ horns.’ See Palpi, Tentacles, &c. ANTHELMINTICS, Anthelmin'thics (-thel-). See Veemiftjges and Woems. ANTHER. Syn. An'theea, L. In botany, the summit of the stamen holding the pollen. See Flowee and Stamen. ANTHIARINE (-in). See Antiaeine. ANTHOK'YAN. Syn. Succ'us vi'cl.® pee- paea'tus, L. The expressed juice of the sweet or purple violet (‘vi'ola odora'ta’—Linn.), de- fecated, gently heated in glass or earthenware to 192° Fahr., then skimmed, cooled, and fil- tered; a little rectified spirit is next added, and the following day the whole is again fil- tered. It must be kept well-corked, and in a cool situation. Uses, tf-e. Chiefly to make syrup of violets, to colour and flavour liqueurs, and as a che- mical test. The London druggists obtain it principally from Lincolnshire. ANTHONY’S FIRE, Saint (-to-iiiz). See Eeysipelas. ANTHOTYPE. See Photogeaphy. ANTHRACINE (-sm). Paranapthaline. ANTHRACITE (-site). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Antheac'olite, Glance'-coal, Stone'-coalJ, MiNEEAL CHAE'COaL^" ; AnTHEACI'TES, L. ; Glanzkohle, Ger. A species of coal found in the transition-rock formation, consisting chiefly of dense carbon. It has a conchoidal fractui'e, a semi-metallic lustre, and a sp. gr. usually varying from 1’4 to 1'6. It burns ; without either flame or smoke, emits an in- i bee Calcined Magnesia, Carbonate of M., Bicarbonate of M., Fluid M., &c. 12