BAROMETEK—BARYTA. 270 consists of a small air-tight cylindrical box, formed of thin corrugated copper-plates, and partially exhausted of air, the sides of which yield to the pressure of the atmosphere; the effect being regulated by a spring, multiplied | by a system of levers, and ultimately recorded by the index on a graduated dial. Compensation for changes of temperature are self-effected, with almost perfect accuracy, by the elastic i force of the spring being so adjusted to that j of the air in the cylinder, that the ‘ loss of | force ’ in the one, and the ‘ increased expansive j force’ of the other, shall, independently of changes of atmospheric pressure, preserve the lever in equilibrio. The indications of the aneroid barometer closely correspond to those of the mercurial barometer, at ordinary ranges; the differences never exceeding the *01 of an inch. It is so extremely sensitive that an ascent or descent of only a few feet is distinctly indicated by it; whilst its portability adapts it for service in situations for which an ordinary barometer is unfitted. On the other hand it is liable to move by jerks, and the elasticity of the spring, and consequently the zero-point of the scale, has been found to be sometimes affected by time and a rough journey. On this account it is necessary to compare it occasionally with some standard mercurial barometer, to deter- mine its amount or rate of variation, if any. Phi'al Barometer. This amusing philoso- phic toy is made by cutting off the rim and part of the neck of a common glass-phial with a file. The phial is then nearly filled with water, either pure or tinged blue j or red; and the finger | being [)laced on its mouth, it is inverted, and sus- pended in a vertical po- sition by means of a piece of twine or wire, when the finger is withdi-awn. (See engr.) In dry weather the under surface of the water remains level with the neck of the bottle, or even concave; in damp wea- ther, on the contrary, a drop appears at the mouth and continues enlarging until it falls, and is then followed by another in the same way. Port'able Barometer. The most accurate are those of Gay-Lussac and Bunten, and after them the aneroid. They should be set on uni- versal joints, and well balanced. The common instrument made with a box and leather cis- tern, seldom continues long correct. Wheel Barometer. The common form of the instrument having a dial-face and hands, i [For further information in connection with the above subject the reader is referred to the ‘ articles ’ Aneroid, Atmosphere, Gas, Heights, Steam, Storm-glass. Vapour, Weather, &c.] BAROSCOPEf (-skope). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Barosco'pium, L. a barometer; sometimes ^ applied to the wheel-barometer, of Hooke. BAR'RAS. The concrete resinous exuda- tion from the bark of fir-trees. That from pi'nus maril'ima is called galipot. BAR'REN. Syn. Sterile, infructueux, Fr.; Unfruchtbar, &c., Ger. In agri- culture, unfruitful, unproductive, not yield- ing crops (as land); uriprolific (as female animals). In botany, not producing seeds or fruit, male (aborti'vus, mas'culus, L.). In physiology, unable to conceive offspring (ster'ilis, &c., L.) . See Flow^ers, Ste- rility, &c. BAESE. [provincial.] The common perch, BAR'WOOD. A red dye-wood imported from Angola and other parts of Africa. It closely resembles cam-wood and sanders-wood in its colouring matter being of a resinous nature, and scarcely soluble in w^ater. In dyeing, this difficulty is obviated by taking advantage of the strong affinity existing between it and the proto-salts of tin and iron. Thus, by strongly impregnating the ‘goods’ with protochloride of tin, either wdth or without the addition of sumach, according to the shade of red desired, and then putting them into a boiling ‘bath’ containing the rasped wood, the colour is ra- pidly given out and taken up, until the whole of the tin in the fibres of the cloth is satu- rated, and the goods become of a rich bright hue. In like manner the dark red of bandana handkerchiefs is commonly given by a mordant of acetate of iron followed by a boiling ‘ bath ’ of this dye-stuff. See Dyeing, Mordants, &c. BARY'TA. Syn. Bary’tes, Cau'stic ba- ryta*, Ox'iDE OF BA"RIUM, PrOTOX'IDE OF B , Ba''RIA*, HeAV'Y EARTHf ; BaRY'TA, Ba"- RII OX'YDUM, Ter'rA PONDERO'SAf, &C., L. ; Baryte, Oxide de barium, Terre PESANTEf, &c., Fr.; Baryt, Baryterde, Schwererde, &c., Ger. One of the simple earths, so named on account of its high specific gravity. Hist. Baryta was discovered, by Scheele, in 1774. In the following year he obtained its ‘muriate;’ and about the same time Gahn shewed that ‘heavy spar’ was composed of baryta and sulphuric acid. In 1783, Dr. Withering recognised the mineral now called ‘ witherite ’ as native carbonate of baryta. The discovery of the other leading barytic salts soon folio ved. It w^as first shewm to be a metallic oxide, by Sir H. Davy, in 1808. Sour..es. Its sulphate (heav'y spar, bar'O- sel'enite, CAWK),and its carbonate (bar'olite, with'erite), are abundant minerals, forming the ‘veinstone’ of many lead-mines. It is 30 h jli »1, rfl h pi I) in 91 jl 1