ALKALOID. 106 soluble matter separates during the process of concentration, the concentrated Jiuid is passed through a moistened filter, and the filtrate evaporated nearly to dryness, as before. The residuum is next digested with absolute alcohol, in the cold, the insoluble portion, after filtra- tion, washed with alcohol, and the mixed filtrates again evaporated in the ah*, or in vacuo. The acid residue is now dissolved in a little distilled water, and bicarbonate of soda added as long as efiervescence ensues. To this mixture 4 or 5 times its volume of ether is added, and after lengthened agitation (the bottle or tube being held in a cold wet cloth), the whole is allowed to repose for a short time. A little of the supernatant ether is now removed to a small glass-capsule or watch glass, and allowed to evaporate spontaneously. When this leaves oily streaks upon the glass, which gradually collect into a small drop, which emits, when gently heated, a disagree- able, pungent, and stifling odour, the presence of a LIQUID VOLATILE BASE Or ALKALOID is inferred; whilst a solid residue, or a turbid fluid with small solid particles floating in it, indicates a non-volatile solid base.^ In either case the blue colour of ‘ reddened ^ litmus is permanently restored by the resi- duum. If no residuum is left on the capsule, some solution of pure soda or potassa is added to the liquid,the whole well agitated for several minutes, and the ether (after repose) decanted; an operation which is repeated with fresh ether a second, third, and even a fourth time. The base, or bases (if any are present), will now be found in the mixed ethereal solution, which is, therefore, tested as before. The presence of an alkaloid being detected, the mixed ethereal solutions are allowed to evapo- rate spontaneously, care being taken, if a volatile alkaloid be present, to neutralise the liquid with an acid before the final evapo- ration. The last residuum is then tested for the particular alkaloid present, as before.: This method, according to Stas, answers well for rt//the ALKALOIDS which are soluble in ether; including — aconitine, aniline, atkopia, BRUCIA, CODEIA, COLCHICINE, CONIA, DEL- PHIA, EMETINE, HYOSCYAMINE, MORPHIA (?), NICOTINE, PETININE, PICOLINE, SOLANINE, STRYCHNINE, VERATRINE, &c. By means of it Stas found ‘ nicotine ^ in the heart-blood of a poisoned dog. With such alkaloids as are, however, only very sparingly soluble in ether, (as ‘ morphia,’ for instance,) the result must, necessarily, be doubtful. To detect these, as well as all the alkaloids which are insoluble in ether, it is, therefore, necessary, as directed by Otto, to add to the alkaline fluid left by the decantation of the ether, sufficient solution of soda to dissolve the ‘ morphia,’ &c., (if any has separated,) and after the expulsion of the 1 A merely disagreeable animal odour, pungency, is here disregarded. 2 "Bulletin de VAcademic de Med, Belgigucfl ix, 304; " Jahrb.f. prakt. Pharm.," xxiv, 313; &c. last traces of the ether by a gentle heat, to add a concentrated solution of hydrochlorate of ammonia, and to allow the mixture to repose for some time in the open air. When mor- phia is present, it separates under the form of small crystals.^ Or the alkaline liquor may be diluted with distilled water, and treated with charcoal, and this with alcohol, in the manner noticed under method 4 {below). 4. (Oraham and Hoffmann—slightly mo- dified.) 2 or 3 oz. of purified animal charcoal are digested in about i gal. of the (neutral or only slightly acid) aqueous fluid under exami- nation, with frequent agitation, for 10 to 12 hours, or longer. The liquid is then filtered, and the charcoal left on the filter, is washed twice with cold distilled water. The charcoal is then boiled for | an hour with about ^ a pint of rectified spirit of 80 or 90^; the ebul- lition being conducted in a flask having a very long tube, open at both ends, fitted air-tight through the cork, to prevent loss of the alcohol by evaporation. The spirit, which now contains the alkaloid (if any was present in the original liquor), is next Mtered whilst hot, and the^^^ra^e is submitted to distillation until the whole of the alcohol is removed. A small quantity (commonly a few drops) of liquor of potassa is then added to the residual aqueous liquor, followed by 1 to 2 fl. oz. of pure ether, after which the whole is well agitated for several minutes, and allowed to repose for a short time. Lastly, the supernatant ether is decanted, and allowed to evaporate sponta- neously, when the residuum (if any) left in the capsule may be tested by reagents, as before. This method was devised for the detection of STRYCHNINE and NUX VOMICA in ‘malt- liquors’; but it is equally applicable to the detection of ANY alkaloid which is ‘ soluble ’ in ether. The ‘ charcoal test ’ may also be employed to detect alkaloids which are ‘ in- soluble ’ in ether ; but then the ‘ base ’ must be sought in the aqueous residuum obtained by the evaporation of the alcohol.^ The presence of the Alkaloids and their Salts, in clear solutions, may be thus determined;— I. (Fresenius.)—1. The solution is vet'y slightly alkalised with dilute solution of po- tassa or soda, added drop by drop:— a. No precipitate is formed; total ab- sence of the alkaloids. (See 4, below.) b. A precipitate is formed:—solution of potassa or soda is added, drop by drop, until the liquid exhibits a strong alkaline reaction:— a. The precipitate redissolves; ab- sence of Brucia, Cinchonia, Narcotina, Quina, Strychnia, and Veratria; pro- bable presence of Morphia. (3. Precipitate does not redissolve, or not completely; probable pre- 1 Otto’a “ Row Lo detect Poisonsd' 2 " Jonrn. of the Chm. Soc.fl v, 178.