BARIUM. 265 Uses, Sf’c. Barilla is chiefly used in the manufacture of soap and glass ; but the gross quantity imported, though annually increasing, only reached 54,608 cwt. in 1856; whilst the exports of soda in the same year reached to about 1,500,000 cwt., and in 1859 to above 2,000,000 cwt. This enormous quantity was chiefly furnished by our home manufactories. Barilla is chiefly imported from Spain, Sicily, Tenerifle, and the Levant; but since the intro- duction of Le Blanc’s process for obtaining soda from common salt, its importance and value has considerably lessened. See Kelp, Soda, &c. BA"RIUM (bare'-e-um). [Eng., Fr., Ger., L.] Syn. Ba"eytjm (*as E. & L.), Baky'ttfm*, Eng., Fr., L. The metal of which the earth baryta is an oxide. It was first obtained by Sir H. Davy, in 1808, by a process ^ suggested by Berzelius and Pontin. Prep. 1. A paste is made with pure baryta or carbonate of baryta, and water, which is laid on a small tray of platinum, and a little hollow having been formed in its surface, a globule of mercury is placed there. The positive pole of a powerful galvanic battery (say of 100 double- plates) is then connected with the platinum, whilst the negative, pole is inserted into the globule of mercury. In a short time an amal- gam OF BAEITJM is formed, which on being heated in vacuo, or in a small sealed bent tube of glass (free from lead) filled with the vapour of mineral naphtha, parts with its mercury, and pure baeium remains behind. 2. From baryta, by strongly heating it in an iron-tube through which the vapour of potassium is conveyed; the reduced baeidm being subsequently extracted from the ‘ mixed residuum ’ by quicksilver, which is afterwards driven off in a small green-glass retort, as above. Prop., 8^c. Grayish-white, approaching silver in colour and lustre; decomposes water, and gradually oxidises in the air, with the forma- tion of the ordinary oxide (baeyta, baeytes). It is malleable, fusible under a red heat; burns in contact with air with a deep red light; and has the sp. gr. 4’70. Boro-flu'oride of Barium. See Boeo-fltjo- EIDES. Bro'mide of Barium (-mid). Syn. Ba"eii beomi'dum, L. ; Beomuee de baeyum, &c., Fr. Prep. Boil a solution of protobromide of iron with moist carbonate of baryta, in slight excess; filter, evaporate to dryness, and heat the residuura to redness. By careful evapora- tion of its aqueous solution it may be obtained in crystals. It is soluble in both alcohol and water, and its physiological properties resemble those of iodide of barium. Chlo"ride of Barium (-id). Syn. Hydeo- ciilo"eate of baey'ta, Mu"eiate of B.* ; Ba"eii ciiloei'dum (Ph. L. & D.), Baey'tjs mu"eias (Ph. E.), B. uydeochlo"eas, Tee'ea POUDEEO'SA SALl'TAf, &C., L. ; CHLOEUEE DE ^ No. 1, in the Text. BAEYFM, ChLOEHYDEATE DE BAEYTE, &C., Fr.; Salzsaijee schweeeede, Chloebaeium, Ger. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Carbonate of baryta (in small pieces), 10 oz.; hydrochloric acid, ^ pint (dinted with—); distilled water, \ quart; mix gradually, strain, evaporate until a skin forms on the surface, and set it aside to crys- tallise. 2. (Ph. L. 1851.) Merely included in * Ap- pendix ’ of Tests and Reagents; the crystals, “ Barii Chloridi (crystal'li)” being ordered. 3. (Ph. E.)—a. Similar to that of the Ph. L. 1836. b. By adding hydrochloric acid to a hot so- lution of sulphuret of barium, as long as it occasions effervescence; and evaporating and crystallising the resulting solution. 4. (Ph. D.)—a. Similar to No 1, but direct- ing the ‘ filtered solution’ to be evaporated to dryness, exposed to a low red heat for 20 minutes, in a Hessian crucible, and the resi- duum to be powdered, re-dissolved in water, evaporated, and crystallised. b. Similar to 3, b. (above). 5. (Bouillon La Grange.) Sulphate of ba- ryta and chloride of calcium, equal parts; pul- verise them together, project the mixture into a red-hot crucible, fuse, pour the mass out on a heated tile, and, when cold, powder, dissolve in water, filter, and crystallise. It may be purified by resolution and crystallisation. 6. (Chemically pfee :—Fresenius, slightly modified.) Gaseous hydrochloric acid is trans- mitted through a concentrated solution of common or impure chloride of barium, as long as a precipitate forms; the resulting ‘ crystal- line powder,’ which is nearly the whole of the ‘ chloride of barium ’ present, is collected on a filter, and, after draining, is washed repeatedly with small quantities of pure hydrochloric acid, until the ‘ washings,’ diluted with water, and precipitated with sulphuric acid, give a ^filtrate’ which, upon evaporation in a platinum-capsule or a watch-glass, leaves no residue; the last traces of acid having been removed by a little alcohol, applied in a like manner, the powder is at once dried, and then carefully preserved from the air.—Used in analysis. The ‘wash- ings ’ and ‘ mother-liquor ’ may be used to dis- solve fresh portions of Witherite. Prop., <^c. Crystals, flat four-sided tables, colourless and transparent; sometimes, double eight-sided pyramids; slightly efflorescent in dry warm air, but otherwise permanent; de- crepitate when heated, and lose their water of crystallisation; fuse at a red heat; volatilise at a white heat (Planiava.) ; insoluble in hy- drochloric acid and in alcohol, slightly soluble in rectified spirit, and very soluble in water; water, at 60°, dissolves 43ig of the crystals, and nearly 37g of the dry salt; and when boiling, 75§ of the/ormer, and about 66§ of the latter; a saturated boiling solution (223° Fahr.) con- tains 100 parts of water, and 78 parts of the crystallised salt. The crystals contain 2 atoms of water; and