GLASS. 697 Concluding remarks.—One of the chief points to which the skilful glass manufacturer directs his attention, is the quality of the mate- EiALS. Great care is exercised in the selection of the sand for all the finer varieties of glass. The usual practice is to test it before using it, by exposing it to a very high temperature. The purest sand is that which is the whitest and freest from iron, and which, consequently, suffers the least alteration by this treatment. The alkalis (potash, soda) employed are puri- fied by solution and crystallization. The red lead and litharge must be pure and absolutely free from oxide of copper (a common con- tamination), which gives a green tint to the glass. The former, which is the most costly, is preferable to the finest crystal. Care must also be taken that the lime, clay, &c., are respectively of proper purity ; and that the ‘ cutlet/ or broken glass, which is almost always j remelted with the other materials, is of proper quality, and of the same kind as that to which it is added. Potassa produces a better glass than soda, although the latter is now very generally employed, irom its lower price. It is, however, quite inadmissible as an ingredient in the manufacture of the better class of crys- tal and plate glass, as, however pure it may be, it imparts to the product a slight greenish tinge more or less destructive of its beauty. When sulphate of soda (Glauber salt) is used as a source of soda, it is gently calcined to dis- sipate its water of crystallization, and requires the addition of about 8g of charcoal to effect its reduction in the melting-pot. Common salt is also employed as a source of soda in the same manner. Sometimes native sulphuret of lead (galena) is used to decompose the sulphate of I soda, and in lieu of part of the oxide of lead; I in which case about 5 parts of the sulphuret are taken for every 9 parts of the calcined sul- phate. To anticipate the results of his processes, and to carry out with certainty his various intentions, the glass manufacturer, perhaps more than any other person, requires the aid of science and experience. All his most essen- tial operations depend on chemical prin- ciples. The products of his furnaces are not formed by the mere mechanical admixture of their several ingredients whilst in the state of fusion, but result from the play of delicate affinities which only act under certain con- ditions, and when the materials are presented to each other in uniform and definite propor- tions. Chemically speaking, the glasses are mixed supersilicates of the respective bases j which enter into their composition {potassa, lime, lead, &c.), and, like all other compounds which are formed by elective attraction, obey the common laws of combination, as deve- loped by Dalton, and now so successfully ap- plied in almost every department of industrial I art. It has been shown by the most careful I analysis, that in all the more valuable and i beautiful commercial glasses the relative pro- j portions of the materials are conformable to these laws, and that several of them are true atomic compounds, as perfect in this respect as the crystalline bodies commonly denomi- nated salts. In some of the harder glasses of Bohemia the number of atoms or equivalents of silica are to each of the bases with which it is united, nearly as 5 to 1; whilst in a softer glass of German manufacture the pro- portions of the two are found to be as 4 to 1. The celebrated plate-glass of St. Gobain is an atomic compound formed of 1 equivalent of trisilicate of soda united to 1 equivalent of trisilicate of lime, with a small per-centage of alumina in combination with silicic acid {silica), also in atomic proportion. Glasses in which the ingredients bear no atomic ratio to each other are never homogeneous, but always more or less striated and of unequal colour and refractive power. The absence of atomic pro- portion between the substances entering into its composition appears to be the only reason why the best English plate and mirror glass is so greatly inferior to that of France and Ger- many, that comparison of the two becomes absurd. The only variety of glass in the pro- duction of which the English manufacturer excels is flint glass or crystal, and' here he certainly surpasses all his numerous compe- titors. The subject is doubtless involved in difficulty, owing to the precise temperature necessary to effect the perfect combination of the bases with the silicic aCid, varying with the character of the compound, and not being satisfactorily settled by observation or experi- ence. The modifying influence of temperature is showm by the fact that the lower the heat employed in the process, the smaller the quan- tity of silica which enters into the composition of the resulting glass; whilst at higher tem- peratures a part of the base is dissipated in fumes, until such proportions of base and acid result as are required to produce a permanent atomic compound corresponding to the tem- perature employed. If the heat is excessive or improperly continued, the loss of base pro- duces an opposite effect, and an opaque, semi- vitrified mass is formed, resembling ‘Reaumur’s porcelain.’ The quality of the resulting glass depends on this change being more or less complete. If the furnace yields the right temperature, and the duration of the ex- posure to its action is neither too short nor too prolonged, nature makes up for the un- skilful conduct of the operative, and removes the stumbling blocks which his ignorance had placed in the way of his own attempts at ex- cellence. The proceedings and their results are accidental; but being once obtained, the first are repeated without further trouble or inquiry. This accounts for the same mixture of materials yielding products of different qualities at different times, and in different works, which the operative contents himself with referring to the ‘ going of the furnace.’ The common plan in this country is to regu-