ALBUMEN—ALBUMINURIA. 56 part of pure albumen, tliough probably always present in white of egg. Prop. Pure solid albumen (unaltered by heat) is nearly colourless, inodorous, and taste- less; scarcely soluble in water, but readily so in water containing an exceedingly small quantity of caustic soda or potassa, and in a strong solution of nitrate of potassa. When dried by a gentle heat it shrinks into a trans- lucent, horny mass; and when exposed to a sufficient temperature, yields the usual ammo- niacal odour and products of animal matter. Its solution (as white of egg) is solidified or coagulated by a heat of from 145° to 165° Fahr., forming a white, opaque mass; when very dilute, on boiling (only) it separates in fine light flocks. When thus coagulated, it is insoluble in water at a less temperature than 302° Fahr. (Wohler and Vogel), unless alka- lised. Ordinary solutions of albumen give pre- cipitates with sulphuric, hydrochloric, nitric, and metaphosphoric acid, with tannin and astringent solutions, and with most of the metallic salts; but are not affected by either acetic acid or tribasic {common) phosphoric acid. Alcohol, in quantity, also precipitates albumen by seizing on the water which holds it in solution. Strong oil of vitriol turns it black in the cold, but on applying a gentle heat, a gorgeous, red-coloured liquid is pro- duced. (Dr. Hope.) Strong hydrochloric acid gives a deep violet-blue solution. White of egg or serum exposed in a thin stratum to the air, dries up into a pale, yellow, gum-like sub- stance, and in this state may be kept for any length of time, retaining its property of re- dissolving when immersed in slightly warm water. Tests.—1. Both heat and alcohol (or strong spirit) coagulate it:—2. A solution of bichlo- ride of mercury dropped into a fluid contain- ing albumen occasions a white precipitate:— 3. Subacetate of lead acts in the same way. Either of the last two will render turbid a solution containing only the l-2000th part of fresh white of egg, or the l-10,000th part of dry albumen :—4. Tannin and tincture of galls give yellow, pitchy precipitates:—5. If dry caustic potassa or soda be triturated with either liquid or solid albumen, ammoniacal fumes are evolved, and the mixture on calcination yields ferrocyanide of potassium:—6. Its coagula- bility by heat, and its mcoagulability by acetic acid, distinguish it from caseine. (See above.) Uses, Sfc. Independently of its value as an alimentary substance, albumen is largely em- ployed in the arts as a glaze or varnish, a vehicle for colours, a cement, &c., and more particularly as a clarifier for wines, syrups, vegetable solutions, and other liquids. Its efficacy for the last purpose depends on its entangling the impurities in its meshes during coagulation, and either rising to the surface with them as a ‘ scum,^ or sinking with them as a precipitate. When the liquid operated on does not spontaneously coagulate albumen, it is necessary to apply heat to it. In cases of poisoning by corrosive sublimate, nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper, bichloride of tin, or sugar of lead, the white of egg (or indeed the yelk as well) is one of the best antidotes that can be administered. Flake Albumen. Syn. Albumen in powdee. Solid a.. Soluble a., Plantee’s a. Prep. Ex- pose strained white of egg or serum of bullock’s blood, in a thin stratum, to a current of dry air, until it concretes into a solid transparent substance, resembling horn. In this state it may be kept any length of time, or it may be further dried until brittle, and then reduced to coarse powder. Use. It is extensively employed as a ‘ clari- fier^ in the sugar plantations of the West Indies, and elsewhere. It is prepared for use by soaking and stirring it with cold water until it is dissolved, when it is whisked to a froth in the usual way, and agitated with the liquid to be clarified. Vegetable Albumen. This substance, long considered to be a distinct proximate princiiple peculiar to the vegetable kingdom, has been shown, by recent researches, to be identical with animal albumen. ALBU'MEN. In botany, the solid, fleshy, or horny substance found in many seeds, be- tween the integuments and the embryo. It is the part that furnishes the flour of the ‘ ce- reals,’ the flesh of the ‘ cocoa-nut,’ and the great mass of the seeds of coffee and other vegetables. However poisonous the plants which produce it may be, this substance is never deleterious. ALBU'MENINE (-in). Syn. Albumeni'na, L. Oonine*. (Couerbe.) The name has been also applied to proteine*. ALBU'MINOUS. Syn. Albumino'sus, L.; Albumine, Abumineux, Fr.; Eiweisstoff- HALTiG, Ger. Formed of, containing, or hav- ing the properties of albumen. Albuminous Plants. In botany, all plants whose seeds contain albumen in a separate state; as in the cereals, palms, 8fc. Albuminous Principles or Substances. Albu- men, casein, fibrine, gluten, ^c. ALBUMINU"RIA, (-nure-e-a). [L.] Syn. Al- BUMINUEIE, Fr. Gr. In pathology, that state of the body in which the urine contains albu- men. It is generally indicative of permanent structural disorganisation of the kidneys, as in ‘ granular disease of the kidneys ’ (Beight’s disease) ; but is sometimes dependent on tem- porary congestion of these organs. Causes. These are numerous and not defi- nitely determined. Eruptive or continued fevers, particularly scarlatina, are said to give rise to it; also congestion or obstruction of the renal vessels, dropsy, suppressed perspiration produced by cold, intemperance, dyspepsia, the use of irritating medicines (as cantharides, the turpentines, corrosive sublimate, and other mercurials), &c. Symp., ^c. “ So numerous and so varied