PUCHA PAT.—PULVERIZATION. 1146 gous to diastase, obtained from the saliva. It is soluble in water, but insoluble in al- cohol. PUCHA PAT. Syn. Patchouli. Pucba pat is the dried foliaceous tops of Pogostemon Patchouli, an Indian species of Labiatce. It is much used in perfumery, particularly for making sachets; but its odour, although very durable, is not so agreeable as that of many other substances, unless it is combined with lavender, bergamot, ambergris, musk, or some other like perfume. PUD'DINGS. The instructions given under Cakes, Pies, &c., will be found, with some slight modifications, also to apply to puddings, and, therefore, need not be repeated here. Soyer tells us that every sort of pudding, if sweet or savoury, is preferably dressed in a basin, instead of in a cloth. If boiled in a basin, the paste receives all the nutriment of the materials, which, if boiled in a cloth, are dissolved out by the water, when by neglect it ceases boiling. To cause them to turn well out, the inside of the basin should be thoroughly * larded ’ or rubbed with butter. In the preparation of meat puddings the “ first and most important point is never to use any meat that is tainted; for in pudding, above all other dishes, it is least possible to disguise it by the confined process which the ingre- dients undergo. The gradual heating of the meat, which alone would accelerate decompo- sition, will cause the smallest piece of tainted meat to contaminate all the rest. Be par- ticular, also, that the suet and fat are not rancid, ever remembering the grand prin- ciple that everything which gratifies the palate nourishes.” “A pudding-cloth, however coarse, ought never to be washed with soap; it should be simply dried as quickly as possible, and kept dry and free from dust, and in a drawer or cup- board free from smell.” (Soyer.) PUD'DLING. See Ikon. PUER'PERAL FEVER. Syn. Febeis puee- PEEALis, L. This is a term which is dif- ferently applied by pathologists. That here referred to is a febrile affection of lying-in women, and may be regarded as a malignant form of milk fever, complicated with peri- tonitis, or inflammation of the peritoneum. It usually attacks the patient about the third day after delivery, and is marked by great tense- ness and tenderness of the abdomen, sup- pression of the milk and lochia, a quick, small, and sharp pulse, hot skin, frequent vomiting, difficult respiration, inclination to belch, aph- thous fauces, &c. In fatal cases, death usually occurs in from 5 to 8 days. The treatment, to be serviceable, must be prompt and skilful. In fall habits, bleeding, mercurial purgatives, and saline sudorifics, with occasional doses of henbane, opium, or mor- phine, to induce sleep, are most relied on. When there is incessant vomiting or purging, and the fever assumes a typhoid character, the system must be supported with cordials and! mild stimulants. “ If the pulse continue above a hundred ir the minute for 24 hours after delivery, there is reason to apprehend that serious mischief ie about to happen; and, therefore, unless the frequency depend, decidedly, on debility, pro- duced by great haemorrhage, &c., we ought to open the bowels, and give a diaphoretic.” “Hi the belly be full or painful on pressure, or il the patient be inclined to vomit, we ought in- stantly to open a vein, and give a purgative. One copious bleeding on the very invasion ol the disease is more useful than ten after- wards, and the delay of two hours may be the loss of the patient, whose danger, even under the most active practice, is extreme.” (‘ Lex. Med.’) PULMONI'TIS. Inflammation of the lungs., See Pneumonia. PULP. Syn. Pulpa, L. The softer parts of plants, more particularly of fruits, separated from the fibrous and harder portions. “ Pulpy fruits, if they be unripe, or ripe and dried, are to be placed in a damp situation until they become soft; then the pulp is to be pressed out through a hair sieve; afterwards, it is to be boiled with a gentle heat, frequently stirring; and, finally, the (excess of) water is to be evaporated in a water bath, until the pulp acquire a proper consistence. “ Press the pulpy fruits which are ripe and fresh through a hair sieve, without boiling them.” (Ph. L. 1836.) PUVERIZA'TION. The reduction of any substance to dust or powder. On the small scale, pulverization is usually performed by means of a pestle and mortar; on the large scale, by stamping, grinding, or cutting the substance in a mill. A few soft substances, as carbonate of magnesia, carbonate, of lead, &c., may be pulverized by simply rub- bing them through a fine sieve, placed over a sheet of paper; whilst many hard, gritty sub- stances can only be reduced to fine powder by porphyrization or levigation. Elutriation, or ‘ washing over,’ is adopted for several sub- stances, as chalk, antimony, &c., which are re- quired to be reduced to fine powder on the large scale. For some articles which are very tough, fibrous, or resisting, a rasp or file is employed. Whichever of these methods is adopted, the body to be powdered must be very dry, and where spontaneous drying is insuffi- cient, artificial desiccation in a stove or oven, gently heated, is employed. To facilitate this the substance should be first cut into pieces oi crushed small. On the other hand, a few sub stances, as rice, sago, nux vomica, and St Ignatius’s bean, are often soaked in water, ori steamed, before being further operated on Whenever a substance cannot be dried com- pletely, without an alteration of its properties an intermedium is had recourse to, by which the moisture may be absorbed, or its state of aggre gation modified. Thus, sugar is employed h