854 LITHIC ACID—L1TMU8. 1 part of carbonate of litliia in 120 parts of water takes up, at blood-heat, nearly 4 parts of uric acid. Mr. Alexander Ure recommends a dilute solution of this substance as an injec- tion in lithic calculus, as it is a better solvent | of uric acid than either borax or the alkaline carbonates. “ Of all the various menstrua hitherto recommended, none appear to promise more favourably than the carbonate of lithia.’^ ‘‘If by means of injections” (of this solution) “ we can reduce a stone at the rate of a grain or more an hour, we shall not merely diminish the bulk of the calculus, but further loosen its cohesion, disintegrate it, so to speak, causing it to crumble down, and be washed away in the stream of urine.” (Mr. A. Ure.) Dose. 2 to 5 gr., twice or thrice a day; as an injec- tion, 1 gr. to water, 1 fl. oz. LITHIC ACID. See Ueic Acid. LITH'IUM. The metallic base of lithia, first obtained by Sir H. Davy by exposing hxj- (Irate of lithia in contact with mercury to gal- vanic action, and decomposing the resulting amalgam by distillation. It is now obtained by fusing pure chloride of lithium in a small, thick, porcelain crucible, and decomposing it while in a fused state by a current of electricity. Tt is a white metal, like SODiDii, very oxidiz- able, fusing at 356'"’, and having a sp. gr. of ‘59. It is the lightest metal known. It belongs to the ‘ alkaline group,^ of which potassium, SO- DIUM, CAESIUM, and eubidium, are the other members. LITHOG'RAPHY. The art of tracing letters, figures, and other designs, on stone, and trans- ferring them to paper by impression. Our notice of this beautiful and useful art must necessarily be brief. There are two methods of lithography in general use. In the one, a drawing is made on the stone with a lithographic crayon, or with lithographic ink ; in the other method, the de- sign is made on lithographic paper, which, on being moistened and passed through the press, leaves its design on the surface of the stone, reversed. In either method, water acidulated with ‘ nitrous acid,’ ‘ oil of vitriol,’ or hydro- chloric acid, is poured over the stone, and this, by removing the alkali from the chalk or ink, leaves the design on it in a permanent form, at the same time that it ‘ etches ^ away a por- tion of the lights, and renders the surface more absorbent of water. The process of lithographic printing is as follows :—water is thrown over the stone, the ‘ roller ’ charged with printing ink is passed over the surface, the paper is applied, and a copy is obtained by the action of the lithogra- phic press. The same process must be had recourse to for each copy. The nature of the stone is such that it retains with great tenacity the resinous and oily substances contained in the ink or crayon employed to form the design, and also absorbs water freely; this, combined with the peculiar affinity between resinous and oily substances, and their mutual power of re- pelling water, occasions the ink on the print- i ing roller to adhere to the design, and to leave 9 untouched the lights. The stones are prepared for lithography by i polishing in the ordinary way; the style of work for which they are intended determining } the degree of labour bestowed upon them. » For crayon draivings, the surface should have a fine grain, but the finish of the stone must depend upon the desired softness of the in- tended drawing; for writing or drawing on in ink, the surface must receive a higher polish, i and must be finished off with pumice-stone and water. The lest lithogeaphic stones are obtained from Solenhofen, near Munich, and from Pap- penheim, on the banks of the Danube. The white ‘ lias ’ which lies immediately under the blue, near Bath, also yields good lithographic stones, and furnishes the principal portion of those employed in this country. See Ceayons, Ink, and Papee. LITHONTRIP'TICS. Sxjn. Lithoteiptics ; Lithonteiptica, L. Under this head are included numerous substances (lithics; ii- THICA, L.) used to prevent the formation of urinary calculi, or to dissolve them when al- ready formed. Those employed with the former intention are more correctly termed ANTiLiTHics (antilithica, L.), and those with the latter, lithonteiptics, or lithon- LYTICS (lithonteiptica, LITHONLYTICA, L.). In cases exhibiting a lithic diathesis, mucli depends on the regulation of the diet of the patient. When there is a superabundant se- cretion of uric acid, the food should contain as , little nitrogen as possible, and should there- ' fore be mainly of a vegetable nature; but, at ' the same time, care must be taken that the healthy action of the stomach is not impaired by the sudden or undue privation of the usual or necessary diet. Indigestible substances, as new bread, pastry, salt meat, and even soup, should be avoided; nor should malt liquors or acid wines be allowed. When the white sand deposits or the phosphates occur, an acid sys- tem of diet is beneficial, with abstinence from alkalies, soda Avater, &c.; Avhilst lemon juice, the acid wines, and fruits in moderation, may be taken Avith advantage. The following are the principal substances included under this head by pharmacological Avriters :—Alkalies and their carbonates, benzoic acid, borax, carbonate of lithia, carbonic acid, carrot, cinnamic acid, diluents (generally), diuretics (generally), juniper, malic acid, Mal- vern waters, mineral acids, nitrosaccharate of lead, opium, phosphate of soda, p)hosphoric acid, poppies, turpentines, uva ursi, vegetable acids, vegetable astringents, vegetable bitters, Vichy waters, wallpellitory, water (pure). LIT'MUS. Syn. Tuensole; Lacmus, Dacca CiEEULEA, L. MUSIA'A, L. MUSCI, L. A bluO substance prepared by the united influence of water, air, ammonia, and either potassa or soda, from Rocella iinctoria, Lecanora tartarea, or