947 NUX VOMICA. j (sugar, starch, &c.) in the last, which is not I contained in the other—matter which abounds 1 in carbon, and which, by its combustion in I the system, serves to support the animal heat at a less sacrifice of the organic fabric. In I the fiesh-eating animal the waste of the or- I ganic tissues is very rapid, and the tax upon ! the vital energies proportionate; for the tern- i perature of its body is kept up, for the most part, by the burning of the nitrogenized j matter of which these tissues are composed. The process of digestion is that by which j the available portions of the food are reduced I to a form adapted for absorption by the ves- I sels by which it is introduced into the system. In the flesh-eating animal this process is ex- tremely simple, and consists in the mere com- minution of the food by the teeth, and its 1 reduction to the liquid state in the stomach, after which, from the nature of its composi- tion, it is nearly all taken up, and at once conveyed into the blood. In the herhivora, however, the process of digestion is much more complicated, and occupies a longer period. Besides the ordinary principles of flesh, their food contains starch, sugar, gum, &c., mixed with much inert vegetable fibre and other useless substances, from which it must be separated. Th.e first of these supply materials for the waste and growth of the body, the second meet the requirements of respiration, and the last pass unaltered through the alimentary canal. I The nature of the digestive process is not clearly established. The principal objects I effected appear to be the conversion of starch, I coagulated albumen, fibrin, casein, &c., into a I liquid form. It is known that the saliva con- I tains a peculiar principle (‘ptyalin’) resem- I bling diastase, capable of transmuting starch ! into sugar, and that when a little starch is I held in the mouth for a short time this change actually occurs. It is also known that the gastric juice contains a peculiar organic prin- ciple named ‘ pepsin,’ and that this substance, in conjunction with dilute hydrochloric acid, which is likewise present in the stomach, pos- sesses the property of dissolving the albuminous principles of food. These changes occur when- ever these conditions are established out of the body, and hence it is inferred that the process of digestion is effected by similar means. Of this, however, there is no direct evidence. The use of food, as already noticed, is two- fold. It supplies the materials of nutrition to balance the waste of the tissues continually taking place in the body, and it conveys into the system those elements which, by their chemical combinations, produce heat. To j effect these purposes in the most beneficial ! manner, the food should not only be sufficient ! in quantity, but the proportions of its nitro- genized and carbonaceous principles should I bear such relations to each other as to amply ' meet the demands of the system for each. without the existence, however, of an undue excess of either. When the muscular movements of a healthy animal are restrained, a genial temperature kept up, and an ample supply of food con- taining much amylaceous or oily matter given, an accumulation of fat in the system rapidly takes place; this is well seen in the case of stall-fed cattle. On the other hand, when food is deficient, and much exercise is taken, emaciation results. These effects are ascribed to differences in the activity of the respi- ratory function. In the first instance, the heat-food is supplied faster than it is consumed, and hence accumulates in the form of fat; in the second, the conditions are reversed, and the creature is kept in a state of leanness by its rapid consumption. The fat of an animal appears to be a provision of nature for the maintenance of life during a certain period under circumstances of privation. Hence it is that a lean animal suffers more from cold than a fat one, and is also sooner starved. “ The origin of fat in the animal body has recently been made the subject of much ani- mated discussion; on the one hand, it was contended that satisfactory evidence exists of the conversion of starch and saccharine substances into fat, by separation of carbon and oxygen, the change somewhat resembling that of the vinous fermentation; it was argued, on the other side, that oily or fatty matter is invariably present in the food supplied to the domestic animals, and that this fat is merely absorbed and deposited in the body in a slightly modified state. The question has now been decided in favour of the first of these views, which was enunciated by Professor Liebig, by the very chemist who formerly advocated the second opinion. By a series of very beautiful experiments, MM. Dumas and Milne-Edwards proved that bees exclusively feeding upon sugar were still capable of producing wax, which was pointed out as a veritable fact.” Professor Liebig, the leading chemico- physiologist of our time, has divided the principles found in food into two classes:— plastic elements of nutrition, or flesh-and-blood- making principles; and elements of respiration, or those which, by their decomposition or com- bustion in the system, generate heat. They are as follows ;— Elements of Nutrition. (Plastic or Nitrogenous.) Animal flesli Blood Vegetable albumen „ casein „ fibrin. Elements of Respiration. (Heat-producing.) Fat Starch Gum Cane sugar Grape „ Milk „ Pectin Alcohol. NUX VOMICA. Syn. Koochla nut. Poi- son N., Vomit n. ; Nuces vomica, Nux