ANTIMONY. 18‘J Prop., S^c. A grayish-white or buft’-coloured, tasteless, inodorous powder {white, when recently precipitated, or when prepared by combustion); soluble in caustic alkaline solu- tions; fusible at a red heat into a yellow fluid which concretes on cooling into a crys- talline mass; volatilises unchanged when strongly heated in close vessels, but in contact with air, is converted into antimonious acid; feebly basic, producing salts nearly all of which readily suffer decomposition, and except the potassio-tartrate, are decomposed on admix- ture with water. It is anhydrous, and con- tains 83‘3g of antimony, and 16"7§ of oxygen. Pur. It is “ entirely soluble in hydrochloric acid, and in a boiling solution of bitartrate of potassa; snow white” (whenrecent); “fusible at a full red-heat.” (Ph. E.) Water merely dissolves traces of it. Before the blow-pipe it melts and is dissipated in white vapour. Tests, See Antimony {above). Uses. Chiefly to make tartar-emetic and some other saline compounds of antimony. It has been proposed as a substitute for ‘ Jameses powder,’ over which it is said to possess many advantages, of which the chief is greater cer- tainty and regularity of action. It has been highly extolled by M. Tessier, and other phy- sicians of Lyons, as a resolvent in pneumonia; its action being particularly marked about the 14th or 15th day.—Bose. to 2 gr.,^ according to the object in view; in the same cases, and proportioned in the same manner, as tartar- iemetic (which see). 2. Binox'ide of Antimony, DentoxTde of An- timony. See Antimonious Acid. 3. Perox'ide of Antimony. See Antinomic Acid. [For Gray Ox'ide of Antimony (Ph. Dan. & Suec.), see Antimonious Acid & Glass of Ant.; for Nitromuriat'ic 0. of A., see Oxt- CHLOKiDE OF A.; for White Oxide of A. (Ph. Dan.), see Antimonic Acid.] Oxychlo"ride of Antimony. Syn. Muei- AT'IC OXTdE of ANTIMONYf, NiTEOMUEIATTC 0. OF A.f, AL'GAEOTHf, Al'OAEOTH’S POW- DERf, AnGELTC P.f, MeR'CURY OF LIFEf, &C.; Antimo'nii oxychloei'dum, a. ox'ydum mueiatTcumI, a. 0. nitromueiatTcum (Ph. D. 1826), PUL'TIS ALGAEO'THI,t P. ANGELT- CUSf, MeECU”RIUS Vl'T^t, &C., L.; OXYCHLO- EUEE d’antimoine, &c., Fr. Prep. By pouring the common liquid chloride (butter) of antimony into water, collecting the precipitate, washing it with water, and drying it by a very gentle heat. 2. (Ph. D. 1826). Sulphuret of antimony, 20 parts; muriatic acid, 100 parts; nitric acid, 1 part; dissolve, and proceed as before. Obs. This preparation consists of teeoxide I ^ 2 to 10 gr. is the dose usually ordered in works on I‘medicine’ and the ‘materia medica,’ an evident error, I handed down, without examination, from the old writers. I We beheve the dose should always be less than that ol I tartar-emetic, for the same indication ; or at most, sliould I neter exceed it. According to Mr. Tyson, the proper dose is 11-lOtH to 1 gr. The oxide (flowers) prepared by heat is I rather less active. OF ANTIMONY, mixed with a little of the chlo- ride, (SSbOg, SbClg,) and is therefore wrongly, though perhaps conveniently, termed an oxy- chloride. By long washing with water it loses most of its chlorine; alkaline solutions extract the whole of the chlorine at once, and leave only the teeoxide. If allowed to stand for some time in the liquor from which it has been precipitated, it becomes more or less crystal- line, and assumes a fawn-colour. See Tee- Oxide OF Antimony. Oxysul'phuret of Antimony. Syn. Red sul’phueet of antimony, PeecipTtated s. OF A., P. TEESUL'PHUEET OF A., Go"lDEN SUL- PHURET OF A. (ordinary). Precipitated sul'- PHUR OF A.f, Brown antimo"niated sul- PHURf, &c.; Antimo"nii oxysulphuee'tum (Ph. L.), A. sulphure'tum au”eeum (Ph. E.), A. s. pe.ecipita'tum (Ph. D.; Ph. L. 1824), Sul'phue antimonia'tum fus'cum (Ph. D. 1826), S. A. PR.i:ciPiTATUM, S. aura'tum ANTIMONII*, &C., L.; OXYSULPHURE D’ANTI- MOINE, SOUFRE DOPE D’A., PeESULFUEE D’A. HYDRATE, Fr.; GeLBER SPEISSGLANZSCHWE- FEL, &c., Ger. This is a hydrated amorphous tersulphuret of antimony obtained by precipi- tation, and contaminated with a small and variable proportion of the teroxide which is thrown down along with it; but chemists dif- fer in opinion as to its precise composition. Prep. 1. (Basil Valentine, a.d. 1410.) Grind crude antimony to a fine powder, and boil it lor two hours, or longer, in a sharp ley of beech-wood ashes; strain the boiled liquor, pour vinegar into it, and the red sulphur of antimony (sul'phur antimo”nii ru'brum) will be precipitated.2 2. (Ph. L. 1851.) Tersulphuret of antimony, in fine powder, 7 oz.; solution of soda (liq. of potassa, Ph. L. 1836), 4 pints; distilled water, 2 gal.; mix, and gently boil them together for two hours, constantly stirring, and adding fresh water as it wastes ; then filter the liquid (through linen or calico), and add dilute sul- phuric acid, q. s., to throw down the whole of the OXYSULPHURET; lastly, having well- washed the precipitate with distilled water, to remove the newly formed ‘ sulphate of soda,’ dry it by a gentle heat. 3. (Ph. E. 1841.) Sulphuret of antimony, in fine powder, 1 oz.; solution of potassa, 11 fl. oz.; water, 2 pints; boil, filter, precipitate, whilst hot, with dilute sulphuric acid in excess, and wash and dry the powder, as before. 4. (Ph. D. 1850.) Prepared sulphuret of antimony, 5 oz.; carbonate of potash (pre- viously dried at a low heat and powdered'), 4 oz.; mixAvell in a mortar, heat the mixture in a Hessian crucible (very gradually and cau- tiously) to low redness, and pour the melted mass on a clean fag (or plate of iron); when cold, reduce it to powder in a porcelain mor- tar, and add it, in successive portions, to boiling water, 1 gal., contained in an iron 2 Dr. Tlieodore Kirkringius’s edn. of B. Valeutine’s “ Cur, us Ti ivmptiaUs Anthnonii,” Load., 1678.