287 BEADING—BEAM-TREE. I liquoiice. Hard and indigestible; accounted 1 cephalic and ophthalmic by the vulgar. lo'vi’s Beads. Syn. Specip'ic-geav'ity j BE^DS. Small ' hollow spheres of glass ’ care- j fully adjusted and numbered, in sets, intended to supersede the ‘ hydrometer ^ in determining the density of fluids. They are used by ! dropping them into the liquid, in succession, until one is found that exhibits indifference as j to buoyancy, and will float under the surface at any point at which it maj' be placed. The number on this ‘ ball ^ indicates, in thousandths, : the sp. gr. sought. They are particularly serviceable in the ‘ hurry ’ of the commercial laboratory, and have the advantage of being ; I applicable to very small quantities of liquid; I but their use, of course, requires the same j precautions, and the results obtained the came corrections for deviations from the ^normal temperature,’ as with other instruments. See 1 Hydrometer, Specieic Gravity, &c. [ Bead. Syn. BeadTngJ. In architecture, t cabinet-work, Sfc,, any small moulding or con- 1 tinned projection of which the vertical section is semicircular. Bead (of Liquors), [tech.] The small bright iridescent bubbles, possessing some slight degree of permanence, which form on the sur- i face of alcoholic liquors of sufficient strength, when agitated. See Alcoholometry, Proof, &c. (also below). 1 BEADING. In the liquor-trade, any thing i added to ‘ commercial spirits ’ to cause them •: to carry a ‘ bead ’ and to hang in pearly drops ■ about the sides of the glass or bottle when . poured out or shaken. The popular notion being that spirit is strong in proportion as it ‘ beads,’ the object is to impart this property to weak spirit, so that it may appear, to the eye, to be of the proper strength. Various jy formulse are current among the ‘knowing S ones ’ of the trade, most of w^hich are unscien- 4[ tific, and many of them absolutely ineffective. The following are those now usually em- f j ployed:— Ij Prep. 1. Oil of sweet-almonds and oil of I vitriol, of each, 1 oz.; rub them together in a i glass, porcelain, or wedgewood-ware mortar or f basin, adding, by degrees, of crushed lump- sugar, 2 oz.; continue the trituration until the I i mixture becomes ‘ pasty,’ then add, gradually, sufficient rectified (strongest) to render the whole perfectly liquid; pour it into a quart-bottle, and wash out the mortar twice, or oftener, wflth a little/resA spirit, until about 1 pint of rectified spirit has been employed, adding the ‘ washings ’ each time to the bottle; lastly, cautiously shake the bottle (loosely corked) until admixture appears com- plete, and then set it aside in a cool place. For use, this compound (after agitation) is thrown into a two-gallon can or measure, which is then filled, from a ‘ tap,’ with the spirit to be ‘ beaded,’ w’hen the whole is thrown into the cask, and the ‘ measure ’ washed out by refilling it and returning it two or three times; after which the contents of the cask are w'ell ‘ rummaged up.’ Gin is usually ‘ fined ’ a few hours afterwards; but it is better not to add the ‘finings’ for two or three days. Other spirits are allowed to be- come ‘ fine ’ by simple repose.—According to Mr. Hartley, and others, this quantity is “ suflicient for 100 gal. of any spiritbut it is more commonly used for a puncheon of 80 to 85 gallons. 2. Oil of vitriol, 2 to 3 oz. ; rectified spirit (strongest), 1 pint; cautiously agitate them together in a loosely coi’ked quart-bottle; in 2 or 3 hours add another pint of rectified spirit, and again agitate. It w’ill be fit for use in a week ; as before. 3. Sulphuric ether, \ lb.; strongest rectified spirit, 1 quart; mix. May be used at once, as before; but if otherwise, should be kept, like the last, closely corked, and in a cool place. 4. Soapwort-root (saponaria officinalis), bruised or rasj>ed small, 1 lb.; rectified spirit and water, of each, ^ gal. ; macerate in a corked jar, w’ith occasional agitation, for 8 or 10 days, strain wuth pressure, and, after a few days’ repose, decant the clear portion. Used as before. Obs. The above are not injurious when employed for ‘beading,’ since the ‘sulj)huric acid’ and a portion of the ‘alcohol’ rapidly suffer conversion into ether; and hence the former is not detectable in the liquid after the lapse of a few days. Even were this not the case, the quantity employed is much too small to injure the wholesomeness of the liquor. I The fraud consists in their being used to dis- guise the presence of 10 to 12§ of water, which is thus sold at the price of spirit. Beyond a certain degree of dilution they fail, however, to produce the intended effect, the bubbles becoming ‘soapy,’ and without the requisite permanence. No. 2 & 3 are of recent intro- duction; and are jealously guarded as invalu- able secrets by those who know them. No. 4 is, as yet, scarcely a twelvemonth old. The addition of a little powdered white sugar (^ oz. to 1^ oz. per gal!) increases the efficacy of all of them. This may be dissolved in the water, if any is added at the time; but its effect on the ‘ hydrometer’ must be recollected. See Alcoholometry, Gin, Spirit (Manage- ment of), &c. BEAK'ER(beke'-). 5'yn. Beak'er-GLASS. In chemistry, a ‘ beaked’ cup or glass, more or less of the tumbler- pattern, used to col- lect precipitates and to heat liquids in. BEAL* (bele.) Syn. Bouton, Pustule, Fr. A pimple or pustule; a small inflamed tumour. BEAM (heme). See Balance, Scales, &c. BEAM'-TREE. Syn. White beam-tree.