POPPY—POKTER. 1107 i:h, ^ clr. A favourite pommade in the East, 'lies. ' Hard Pommade. Syn. Haed pomatum, : !'LL p. Prep. 1. Take of beef suet, 2 lb.; fow ivax, i lb.; spermaceti, 1 oz.; pow-\ \'ed benzoin, ^ oz.; melt them together, ; ’I'u add, of oil of lavender, 2 dr.; essence of ii^bergris, ^ dr. Before it concretes pour it; ilo moulds of2}aper or tinfoil. Mutton suet and lai'd, of each, 1 lb.; , hie ica.v, 6 oz. ; melt, and add, of essence of /[foij, 2 dr.; oil of cassia, | dr. Other per- iies may he employed at will. ([lard pomatums are used to gloss and set; i|! hair. They act both as 'pommade^ and ’ \:ateur.’ See Cosmetique. ! iHacassar Pommade. Prep. From castor fi 5 oz.; white wax, 1 oz.; alkanet root, .'r.; heat them together until sufficiently ( mred, then strain, and add, oil of origanum i I oil of rosemary, of each, 1 dr.; oil of nut- > 7, 5 dr.; otto of roses, 10 drops. Said to ' 1 equal in efficacy to macassae oil. i tiarechal Pommade. Plain pommade scented 1 digesting it with poudre marechale. darrow Pommade. Syn. Maeeow poma- i j!\i. Prep. From prepared beef marrow, | \'i.; beef suet, \ lb. ; palm oil, ^ oz.; melted ; t ether and scented at will, lillefleur Pommade. Prep. From plam | fhmade scented with a mixture of essence of (\on and essence of ambergris, each, 4 parts; I ' of lavender, 2 parts; oil of cloves and essence | < petit grain, of each, 1 part; or with other I 13 perfumes so proportioned to each other i tft no one shall predominate. Much es-1 t;med. I jloU Pommade. See Haed Pommade. j tloman Pommade. See below. \ [lose Pommade. Syn. Rose pomatum. This j i;7am pommade or hard lard, which has been I ' 1 beaten with eau de rose, or, better still,; »• iited with otto of roses. It is sometimes ; t jed with alkanet root. \ loft Pommade. Plain pomatum scented at j ' 1. loubeiran’s Pommade. Prep. From beef ' row, 1^ oz.; oil of almonds, ^ oz.; disul- l te of quinine, 1 dr. Recommended for »?ngthening and restoring the hair. '’anilla Pommade. Syn. Roman pommade, 1 dMADE A LA TANILLE, POMMADE ROMAIN. ' i »m plain pommade and pommade a la rose,' 0 2ach, 12 lb.; powdered vanilla, 1 lb.; heat; t in together in a water bath, stir constantly | t 1 hour, let it settle for another hour, j li ant the clear, and add, oil d la rose, 2^ lb. ; | b jamot, 4 oz. | 'OP'PY. Syn. White poppy ; Papavee ! SiNiFEEUM, L. The capsules or fruit (“ma- j te”—Ph. L.; “not quite ripe —Ph. E.) j f n the poppies or poppy-heads of the shops j ( PAVEEIS CAPSULE; PAPAVEE—Ph. L. E. They are anodyne and narcotic,! s ilar to opium, but in only a very slight ! ^ ree. The seeds (maw seed), which are , sweet, oleaginous, and nutritious, are used as a substitute for almonds in confectionery and mixtures, and are pressed for their oil. See Exteact, Opium, and Syeup. Red Poppy. Syn. Coen poppy, Coen eose ; Papavee ehceas, L. The fresh petals or flowers (ehgeados petala; ehceas—Ph. L. E. & D.) are reputed pectoral, but are chiefly employed on account of their rich colour. See Syeup. POP'ULIFT. Syn. Populinum, L. A pe- culiar neutral, crystallizable substance, for- merly supposed to be an alkaloid, found, associated with salicin, in the root-bark of the Populus tremula (Linn.), or aspen. Prep. Concentrate the decoction by a gentle heat, and set it aside in a cool situation to crystallize; dissolve the crystals which are deposited in rectified spirit, decolour them hy digestion with animal charcoal, filter, and again crystallize. To render them still purer, they may be redissolved and crystallized a second and a third time, if necessary. Prop., It resembles salicin in appear^ ance and solubility, but, unlike that substanc'e, has a penetrating sweet taste. Dilute acids convert it into benzoic acid, geape sugae, and salieetin ; and with a mixture of sul- phuric acid and bichromate of potassa it yields a large quantity of salicylous acid. It ap- pears to be tonic, stomachic, and febrifuge. POR'CELAIN. See Potteey. PORK. The value of pork as an article of diet is well known. That from the young and properly fed animal is savoury, easy of digestion, and, when only occasionally em- ployed, highly wholesome; but it is apt to disagree with some stomachs, and should, in such cases, be avoided. To render it proper for food, it should be thoroughly but not over- cooked. When salted, it is less digestible. The frequent use of pork is said to favour obesity, and to occasion disorders of the skin, especially in the sedentary. POR'PHYRIZED, PORPHORIZA'TION. Words coined hy recent pharmaceutical writers, and possessing similar meanings to levigated and levigation. PORPHy'ROXIN. A neutral cry stalliz able substance discovered by Merck in opium. It is soluble in both alcohol and ether, insoluble in water, and is characterised by assuming a purplish-red colour when heated in dilute hydrochloric acid. PORRI'GO. See Ring-woem. POR'TER. This well-knowm beverage, now the common drink of the inhabitants of Lon- don, by whom it is generally termed ‘ beer,’ originated wdth a brewer named Harwood, in 1722. Previously to this date, ‘ ale,’ ‘ beee,’ and ‘ twopenny,’ constituted the stock in trade of the London publican, and were drunk, either singly or together, under the names of ‘ HALF-AND-HALF ’ Or ‘ THEEE THEEADS,’ for w'hich the vendor was compelled to have recourse to two or three diflcrent casks, as