ACUTE—ADJUVANT. 43 :j ii diseases has been practised for ages, and is still in repute there. In Europe, it was first ] practised by Dr. Belioz, of Paris, in 1810; )| but it has since fallen into disuse, although l! lately recommended for chronic rheumatism. The needles are introduced with a semi-rotary (j motion to the depth of half an inch to an ! inch, according to the nature of the part, and I, they are allowed to remain in it from two or )l three minutes to an hour or more. In Eng- !i land, the operation has been exclusively con- \| fined to the muscular, tendinous, and apo- I neurotic parts of the body. The extravagant ii accounts given of the operations of the oriental [1 physicians in acupuncture, as well as the i statements of M. Bretonneau and Dr. Carraca of I' their own experiments, are utterly unworthy 1 of credence, and dangerous to propagate. I ACUTE'. Syn. Actj'tus, L. ; Aigu, Fr.; I Heftiq-, HiTzia, Spitzig, Ger. » Sharp, pointed, sensitive. Applied to the senses, as acM/e hearing, eye-sight, &c. In pathology, dis- >j eases exhibiting violent symptoms, and whose I course is short, are said to be acute diseases. I AD'AMANT.f A term formerly applied to I: the diamond. Chaucer uses it for the load- 6| stone. In modern mineralogy it has no pre- ) cise technical signification. I AD'DER. Syn. Be"etjs, L. ; Cotjleuvee, I Fr.; Nattee, Ger. The common name, in ' England, for the ‘viper.’ In herpetology, I vipers which have the head covered with j granular scales, with larger ones intermixed in f some species; and which have the nostrils of moderate size. The black adder, and the common adder (‘ berus chersea ’), are the only varieties of this venomous reptile indigenous j to England. See Vipee. ADDER’S TONGUE. .Syn. Common addee’s- TONGUE; Ophioglos'sum vulga'tum, Linn. A perennial plant, of the nat. ord. Filices (DC.), i growing wild in England. It is found in our j woods and pastures, and flowers in May and ’ June. It was once used to form a cele- I brated traumatic or vulnerary ointment, and i' is still highly esteemed among rustic herbalists. I AD'EPS. [L.] Fat. The adeps ordered in the j PharmacopoeiasisAoy’s-/arrf. SeeFAT; Laed,&c. Magnet'ic Adeps. Hog’s-lard modified by I free exposure to atmospheric air. ! Prep. 1. Lard, melted and strained, is I poured, in a very small stream, into cold water ; and the thin fragments, thus obtained, j| are placed in a sieve covered with paper, or ji in any other suitable apparatus, and exposed to the air for 3 or 4 months, or longer. 2. By reducing the lard to shavings or flakes, in the manner described under ‘ white w'ax ;’ and otherwise proceeding as before. ' Use. To make mercurial ointment. If good, it speedily “ kills ” 30 or 40 times its weight of quicksilver. ADHE'SION (»he-zhun). Syn. Adh^'sio, L.; Adhesion, Fr.; Anhangijng, Aexle- BUNG, Ger. The act or state of sticking or being united, in various applications. Adhesion. In pathology, the morbid union, from inflammation, of parts normally con- tiguous but not adherent. Adhesion. In surgery, the reunion of divided parts, by the adhesive inflammation; as when incised wounds heal by what is termed the ‘first intention.^ Adhesion. In physics, the force with which bodies remain attached to each other when brought into contact. It differs from ‘cohe- sion’ in representing the force with which different bodies cling together ; whereas cohe- sion is the force v/hich unites the particles of a homogeneous body with each other. (See Biot., Traite de Phys., iv, &c.) ADHE'SIVE. Syn. Adh^si'vijs, L. ; Ad- HESiP, Fr.; Adhasive, Veewachsend, Ger. In pharmacy, Sfc., having the quality or property of sticking or adhering. Hence adhesiveness, &c. ADIP'IC ACID. Syn. Acidijm adip'icdm, L.; Acide adipique, Fr. One of a series of acids discovered, by Laurent, among the pro- ducts of the oxidation of oleic acid by means of pure colourless nitric acid. Prep. Gently evaporate the mother liquor left from the process of preparing pimelic acid, set it aside for some days, and then collect the crystals deposited; repeat this operation until the liquor ceases to yield crystals. Then dis- solve them in hot water, skim ofl‘ the oil, filter, evaporate, and crystallise. Dissolve the crys- tals thus obtained in ether, and evaporate the solution to one half; collect the crystals, and re- peat the process a second time; lastly, dissolve the two crops of crystals separately in alcohol, when ADIPIC ACID, in roundish crystalline grains, and LIPIC ACID, in plates, will be obtained. Prop. Colour, brown ; soluble in hot water, volatile above 266° Fahr. It unites with the bases, forming salts (ad'ipates), which are mostly soluble. AD'IPOCERE (-sere). Syn. GEAVE-WAx;j: j Adipoce"ea, L.; Adipociee, Fr.; Fettwachs, Ger. A substance resembling a mixture of fat and wax, resulting from the exposure of the iflesh of animals in moist situations, or under water. It is chiefly margarate of ammonia. ■ It was proposed by Lavoisier to produce this substance artificially, for the purposes of the iarts. Attempts have since been made to con- vert the dead bodies of cattle (carrion) into adipocere, for the purposes of the candle-maker and the soap-boiler, but without success. Be- sides, dead animal matter can be worked up more profitably than in making artificial adipocere. Hatchettine or rock-fat, is sometimes called ‘adipocere’; and bog-butter is a substance nearly similar to it. AD'JECTIVE. Syn. Adjecti'vds, L.; Ad- JECTIF, Fr. In dyeing, depending on another, or on something else; applied to those colours which require a base or mordant to render them permanent. See Dyeing. AD'JUVANT. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ad'jdtans, L.; Aidant, &c., Fr. Assistant; helping. (As