1292 TURPETH MINERAL—TYPHUS. 48 lb,; melt, remove the heat, and add of oil of turpentine, 2 gall. TUR'PETH MINERAL. Trihasic sulphate of mercury. (See page 907.) TUR'TLE. Syn. Green turtle. The Testuda midas (Linn.), a chelonian reptile, highly esteemed for flesh, eggs, and fat. TUSSILA'GO. See Coltsfoot. TU'TENAG. A name sometimes applied to German silver; at others, to pale brass and BELL METAL. “ 111 India zinc sometimes goes under this name.” (Brande.) TUT'TY. Syn. Tutia, Tuthia, Impure OXIDE OF ZINC. The sublimate that collects in the chimneys of the furnaces in which the ores of zinc are smelted. Drying; astringent. Used in eye-waters and ointments, TYPE METAL. An ahoy formed of anti- mony, 1 part; lead, 3 parts; melted together. Small types are usuall}" made of a harder com- position than large ones. A good stereotype METAL is said to be made of lead, 9 parts; antimony, 2 parts; bismuth, 1 part. This alloy expands as it cools, and, consequently, brings out a fine impression. TY'PHUS. Syn. Typhus fever. A form of continued fever, marked by extreme debi- lity and depression of the nervous powers, an imperfect reaction of the vascular system, and a tendency to putrefaction. It is generally regarded as contagious or infectious, and is often epidemic. The debilitated and uncleanly are those most liable to its attacks ; and crowd- ed, damp, ill-ventilated, and badly drained buildings and localities, more especially those in which the effluvia from decaying animal or vegetable matter abound, are those in which it is most prevalent and fatal. Typhus fever has been divided into two great varieties—mild typhus {nervous fever, slow fever / typhus mitior), and malignant TYPHUS {putrid fever, pestilential f, petechial f., typhus gravior, typhus malignus). The last has also received various names, derived from the places where it most prevails; as, camp fever, hospital f, gaol f, and, in cases where there is much bilious vomiting, bilious fever. The general symptoms of typhus are “ inor- dinate muscular, nervous, and mental depres- sion ; weariness; ffying pains; a frequent, small, and fluttering pulse; a foul and brown tongue; impaired taste; and, frequently, nausea and bilious vomiting. As the disease advances the debility increases; the mouth becomes foul, and the breath fetid; the urine deposits a brown sediment, and, together with the motions, is fetid, and rapidly putrefies; all these symptoms increase in intensity; the speech becomes inarticulate, muttering, and delirious; there is a tendency to bleeding from the nose, mouth, and bowels; petechias, or livid spots, appear upon the surface; the pulse sinks and intermits; the mind wanders; hiccup comes on; the hands and feet become cold; and, under these horrible symptoms, the patient dies. Such is an outline of the ordi- nary progress of a typhus fever to a fatal termination. In this climate it may endure for three weeks or a month; but in hot coun- tries the symptoms follow each other more ra- pidly and violently, and it is then not of more than eight or ten days’ duration. When it does not terminate fatally, the symptoms begin to assume a more favorable aspect about the twelfth or fourteenth day; the pulse improves, the patient gets some tranquil sleep, perhaps perspires; the urine deposits a red sediment; bilious stools are passed; he becomes more tranquil in mind and body, and his symptoms gradually disappear until health is restored; but it is a disease the event of which must be anticipated with the utmost caution, for attacks apparently mild sometimes terminate fatally, whilst, in other cases, the constitution has ral- lied under the most alarming and malignant features.” The milder form of typhus generally com- mences with slight shiverings; heavy or ver- tiginous headache; the tongue exhibits little change; the pulse is only slightly, but some- what, smaller than usual; and the other early symptoms are less marked and severe than in the malignant variety, and are often other- wise considerably modified. When the patient is of a sound constitution, and not debilitated by age, or bad habits, it is seldom fatal; other- wise it is frequently so. Scarlet fever and other varieties often assume a typhoid cha- racter. The treatment of typhus must he greatly regulated by the peculiarities of the case. In the very commencement an antimonial emetic . and a mild aperient are proper, followed by aromatic opiates, with camphor and ether. “ It is possible that some particular symptom, in- dicative of local congestion, may call for bleed- ing ox blistering; the former, except in some very rare cases, should be local only, and very limited as to quantity.” Serpentaria, Peruvian bark, cascariUa, and calumba, more particularly the first tw’o, are the tonics most relied on; and with these should be combined camphor, aromatic confection, confection of opium, and ether; or, if agreeable to the stomach and bowels, water slightly acidulated with the mineral acids, or lemon juice, on account of their tonic and antiseptic action. As stimu- lants, to keep up the general powers of the system, wine and brandy, or even good ale or porter, may often be cautiously had recourse to with advantage. A supporting spoon diet, with extreme attention to cleanliness and ven- tilation, will complete the treatment. A cold shower-bath twice or thrice daily on the first attack, and, afterwards, sponging with cold or tepid water, or with vinegar-and-water, have also been highly recommended. The principal objects to be kept in view during the above treatment are—“to assist arterial when deficient;—to subdue local inflammation, or, at least, to keep it below the point of disorganization; and—to sustain the