1 BORIC ACID—BOUGIE. sore throat, and in powder as a detergent in aphtha?, and ulcerations of the mouth, Dis- t solved in rose-water, it is used as a cosmetic ; j and mixed with about 8 times its weight of I lard, forms a useful ointment in piles and sore j nipples. ' Glass of Borax. Borax dried at a gentle I heat, and then melted by increasing the heat until it forms a vitreous mass on being cooled. Used in soldering, and as a flux, particularly in blowpipe-experiments. BO”EIC ACID. See Boracic Acid. BO"EIDE (-id), Bo"ruret*. See Boron. j BORO-FLU'ORIDES (-ridz). Compounds » which possess little practical interest. Boro-fluoride of Ba"rium. By adding car- « bonate of baryta to boro-fluoride of hydrogen, ,i until it ceases to be dissolved; and evapora- i ting to the consistence of a syrup, when crys- < tals form. The boro-pldorides of cal'ciijm, I magne'sium, and lead, may be formed in a I similar way. J Boro-fluoride of Hy'drogen is prepared by passingacid gas through water, care- fully concentrating the solution, cooling it, and separating the crystalline powder, which is the ‘product’ sought. With most of the protoxides and their carbonates, it inter- changes bases, and metallic boro-fluorides ] result. Boro-fluoride of Potas"sium. By dropping < boro-fluoride of hydrogen into a solution of carbonate of potassa, collecting the white pow- . der that falls, and washing it with cold water. I Boro-fluoride of So'dium. "By dissolving I fluoride of sodium mb or 0-fluoride of hydrogen, and crystallising. Boro-fluoride of lith'- 1 lUM may be formed in a similar way. BO'RON. The base of boracic acid. It was I discovered by Homberg in 1702; but, from Ij attracting little notice, was soon forgotten. It was rediscovered almost simultaneously, by Sir H. Davy, and by Gay-Lussac and Thenard, in 1807-8. Prep. Boron is prepared by a process r similar to that employed to obtain silicium :— I Potassium and perfectly dry boracic acid, or, 1 preferably, boro-fluoride of potassium, inti- mately mixed together, are placed in a glass adopter-tube, and submitted to a low red heat. When cold, the loose cork that fastened its mouth is removed, and hot water poured in, in successive portions, until the whole matter is detached and all its soluble portion dissolved; the ‘liquid’ is next allowed to settle, and the precipitate washed with a solution of sal- ammoniac, and afterwards with alcohol; the residuum (boron) is lastly dried in a capsule, and put into a well-stoppered phial. Prop., Sfc. A solid, tasteless, and inodorous powder, of a dark grayish-brown colour. With sulphur it unites at high temperatures, forming sulphurets (sulphurets of boron) ; and when placed in chlorine gas it spontaneously inflames, and a gaseous chloride of boron is formed. The compounds of boron with 345 simple bodies are termed bo"rides (-idz) or BO"RURETS^. Obs. Among the most remarkable of the recent discoveries in chemistry, are those of MM. Wohler and Deville, relative to silica and boron. Each of these substances is now proved to exist in three very different states, analogous to the three known states of carbon, namely charcoal, graphite, and diamond. The last of these states is, of course, the most interesting. Crystallised boron possesses a hardness, bright- ness, and refractive power, comparable to those of the diamond; it burns in chlorine, without residue, and with circumstances resembling those of the combustion of diamond in oxy- gen ; it is not acted on by any of the acids, and appears to be the least alterable of all the simple bodies. Its powder is already used in the arts, instead of ‘diamond-dust;’ and it seems not improbable that, when obtained by the chemist in crystals of larger size, it may rival even the diamond as a gem. Terflu'oride of Boron. See Fluoboric Acid. BOTT'LES (bot'lz). See Glass, Infancy, Lactation, Phials, Phosphorus, &c. BOTT'LING (bot'l-mg). See Corks, Malt Liquors, Wine, &c. BOUGIE (boo'-zhe). [Fr.] Syn. Ce'reus, Cere'olus^ Cande'la probato"ria*, L. In surgery, a long slender instrument, originally of wax^, introduced into the urethra, oesopha- gus, or rectum, in stricture and other diseases of those organs. Prep. 1. (Prof. Pickel’s.) Amber (melted), 1 part; boiled oil, 3 parts; mix, cool a little, and further add of oil of turpentine, 1 part; spread the mixture, at 3 successive intervals, upon loose spun-silk cord or web; dry in a heat of 150° Fahr., and repeat the process until the instrument has acquired the proper size; lastly, polish it, first with pumice-stone, and afterwards with tripoli and oil. This is the original receipt of the once celebrated French professor Pickel, and is still generally used, slightly modified, on the Continent*, At the present time, in Paris, a little caoutchouc, equal to about ^gth of the weight of the oil employed, is generally added. For the best elas'tic bougies the process usually occupies from 6 to 8 w'eeks, to allow full time for the drying and hardening of the composition. When the bougie is required to be hollow, a piece of polished metallic wire is introduced into the axis of the silk; or tin-foil is rolled round the ‘ wire ’ and the composition ap- plied as before. When dry and hard the ‘ wire ’ is withdrawn. 2. (Hunter’s.) Yellow wax, 2 parts; red lead, 3 parts ; olive oil, 6 parts; slowly boiled together until combination takes place; strips of soft linen (rather wider at the one end than the other) are then dipped into the ‘com- 1 Properly, a ‘ little bougie.’ * Hence the name.