place. The liquors which are merely concen- degrees, “so that 3 fl. dr. may be added 860 LIQUEUR DE LA MOTTE—LIQUOR. 1 pint. It is slightly coloured with hurnt sugar. Tent. From plain spirit (22 u. p.) and port xvine, of each, 1 quart; sherry and soft water, of each, 1 pint; orange-flower water and lemon juice, of each, i pint; essence of ambergris, 2 drops (not more); sugar, 2 lb. See Wine. Us'quehaugh. See the article Usquebaugh in another part of this work. LIQUEUR DE LA MOTTE. [Fr.] SeeDEOPS (Golden) and Tinctuee. LIQUEUR DOREE. [Fr.] Prep. Take of cinnamon, bitter orange peel, and Peruvian bark, of each, ^ oz.; hay saffron, ^ oz.; brandy and Malaya wine, of each, 3 quarts; digest for a | week, strain, and add of lump sugar, 2 lb.' Tonic, stomachic, and stimulant; chiefly used as an agreeable alcoholic dram. LIQUEUR DE PRESSAVIN. [Fr.] Prep. From oxide of mercury (freshly precipitated) and cream of tartar, of each, 1 oz.; hot water, 1 quart; dissolve and Alter. For use, 2 spoon- fuls of this liquor are added to 1 quart of water. Dose. A wine-glassful 3 or 4 times a day, avoiding the use of common salt. This is simply a solution of potassio-tartrate of mer- cury, and may be taken in the usual cases in which mercury is administered. LIQUODIL'LA. See Liqueue. LIQUID-AMBAR. Syn. Copalm balsam. A fluid balsamic juice obtained from the Liquid- ambar styraciflua, an American tree. It closely resembles liquid stoeax in its properties, and may he applied to the same purposes. See Stteax. LIQ'UOR. Syn. Liquoe, L.; LiQUEUE,Fr. This term is applied in the London Pharma- copoeia to those aqueous solutions commonly, though improperly, called ‘ watees’ ; as liquor ammonia, liquor potassa, &c.; which, being simple solutions of pure potassa and gaseous ammonia, would he more correctly and intel- ligibly called " solutions.' The term ‘ liquoP has also, of late years, been applied to certain concentrated prepara- tions, most of which would he more correctly termed ‘PLUID exteacts,' as they merely differ from good extracts in their consistence, and from ordinary extracts in containing less starchy matter, albumen, and gum. There is also usually a little spirit added to them, to prevent decomposition. Liquors of this kind may be prepared of the flnest quality, by the same processes that are required for the pre- jiaration of good soluble extracts; observing to stop the evaporation as soon as the consistence of treacle is acquired, and when cold, to add l-4th or l-5th part of their weight (after eva- poration) in rectified spirit. The addition of 3 or 4 drops of the oils of cloves and mustard seed, dissolved in the spirit, will secure them from any risk of ‘ moulding’ or fermenting; in fact, with this addition many of them will keep well without spirit, provided they are evaporated sufficiently, and kept in a cool I trated infusions or DECOCTIONS, and which, i I in their consistence, do not even approximate i 1 to extracts, may be made in the manner directed under those heads. Much confusion would be prevented if the terms ‘ concentrated decoction,’ ‘ concentrated infusion,’ &c., were adopted for those vegetable preparations possessing 8 times the usual strength; ' liquors,’ for those of a higher strength, but still sufficiently liquid to be treated as such in dispensing, &c.; and 'fluid extracts’ for those possessing considerable consistence, and approaching the common ex- tracts in their degree of concentration and mode of preparation. See Decoction, In- fusion, Essence, Exteact, Solution, &c. *** The following formulae present some illustrations of the preparation of this class of medicines. An'odyne Liquor. See Spieit of Ethee. Antinephrit'ic Liquor. Syn. Liquoe anti- NEPHEiTicus, L. Prep. (Adams.) Poqpy heads, 6 oz.; water, 1^ pint; boil to one third, strain with pressure, and add of nitrate of potassa, 1 oz. Dose. 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls night and morning; in gravel and painful affections of the kidneys and bladder. Antipodag'ric Liquor (Beguin’s). Syn. Hoff- mann’s GOUT LIQUID ; LiQUOE ANTIPODAG- Eicus Hoffmannii, L. Prep. From Boyle’s \fuming liquor, 1 part; spirit of wine, 3 parts. Sudorifle. Dose. 20 to 30 drojis; or exter- j nally, in gout, and other painful affections, either alone or combined with camphor. See Ammonia (Perhydrosulphate). Antipsor'ic Liquor. Syn. Liquoe antipsoe- , icus, Lotio a., L. Prep. (Van Mons.) Sul- '! phuret of sodium, l|dr.; hydrochlorate of am- rt monia, 75 gr.; dissolve each separately in water, ^ pint, mix the solutions, and filter. In itch, and other moist skin diseases. Bleaching Liquor. See Solution of Culo- EiDE OF Lime. Boyle’s Fu"ming Liquor. The perhydro- sulphate of ammonia. Liquor of Calum'ba. Syn. Liquor ca- lumet, L. Same as concentrated infusion OF CALUMBA. Liquor of Cam'plior. See Essence. Liquor of Chiret'ta. Same as Concen- trated INFUSION OF ClIIEETTA. Liquor of Cincho'na. Syn. Liquoe of BARK, Concentrated infusion of bark. Inspissated i. of b.; Infusum cinchon.e SPISSATUM (Ph. L.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Yellow cinchona bark (bruised), 3 lb., is mace- rated in distilled water, 6 pints, at two suc- cessive operations, as directed under extract OF CINCHONA—Ph. L.; the mixed infusions are evaporated by the heat of a water bath to one fourth, and placed aside to settle; the clear portion is decanted, the remainder strained, and the mixed liquid again evapo- rated until its sp. gr. reaches 1'200; to this, when cold, rectified spirit is dropped in, by