361 BREWING. Irig. The following are the usual propor- tions :— HOPS. MALT. Strong beer (keeping) . 8 lb. . 1 qr. ,, ale (aromatic) . 8 ,, • 1 „ „ ale or beer (ordi- nary) 5 „ . 1 „ Brown stout . ... 4^ „ • 1 » Mild ale 4 „ . 1 « 1 „ porter (draught) . 3i,, . 1 „ 1 Table ale If „ . 1 „ 1 Scotch ale (best) . . . 4| „ . 1 „ j Bitter „ . . . 10 to 14 ,, . 1 „ ' East India ale (bitter. 1 aromatic) . . 15 to 16 „ . 1 „ I The water, which should he both soft and i clear, must be provided in abundance. Of late years ‘ hard water ’ has been chosen by many brewers, on the ground that beer brewed with it is ‘ self-fining,^ and hence requires no artificial clarification either in the vat or cask. ' The water at Burton-on-Trent, a place cele- brated for its ales, is of this class. ; The yeast must be sweet and good; and all I the vessels and utensils perfectly sweet and ‘ clean. If the last be neglected, even the most skilful brewing will prove a failure. I Process of Brewing:— 1 1. Mashing :—The ground or bruised malt, ! placed in the ‘ mash-tun’ is macerated for : some time in hot water, and the infusion I (woet) drawn off from a hole in the bottom I over which a bunch of straw, or a strainer or { false bottom, is placed, to prevent the malt ; passing out along with the liquor. During i the process of mashing, a peculiar principle j contained in the malt, called by chemists i * DIASTASE,’ reacts upon the starch with which I it is associated, and converts it first into a species of gum (dexteine), and ultimately into grape-sugar. The more completely this conversion is effected, the richer will be the I resulting wort in sugar or * saccharine,’ and i the stronger and more alcoholic the beer pro- I duced by its fermentation. It is therefore a 1 desideratum with the brewer to mash at the temperature which most fully promotes this I important object. The best temperature for this purpose ranges between 157° and 160° Fahr. When more than one mash is made, the first should be something lower than the first-named temperature; the second, may be ! from 160° to 162°; and the third, about 165° to 170° Pahr. The common brewers, however, generally mash at higher temperatures than ! those just given. The action of the first mash is merely to : extract the sugar contained ready formed in the malt; that of the second, to convert the starch into sugar by the action of the diastase ; and that of the third to fully complete the last-named object, as well as to carry away I the remaining portion of extract left from the : second mash. In practice, as soon as the water in the copper acquires the temperature of 145° (in summer; 167° in winter), 45 gal. are run into the ‘ mash-tun,’ and 1 quarter of crushed malt gradually thrown in. The whole is now thoroughly mixed by laborious working, and the agitation mashing ’) continued for 30 or 40 minutes, when 36 gal. more water from the boiler, at a temperature of 200°, are added, and the whole again well agitated, as before. The mash-tun is now closely covered up, and allowed to stand for an hour, an hour and a half, or even longer. At the end of this time the tap is set, and the wort is ‘run’ into the ‘ underback.’ It generally amounts to about 50 gallons. The second mash is then made with about 60 gal. of water, at 200° Pahr., and the whole process repeated, as before. After an hour the liquor is drawn off, and the malt drained ready for the third mash. This time only 35 gal. of water are added at 200° Pahr., and the whole is seldom allowed to ‘ stand ’ longer than half an hour. It is then ‘ run off,’ and the malt allov/ed to drain as dry as possible. In some cases, the worts of the first and second mashes only are used for strong beer ; that of the third mashing being kept for table beer, or as water to mash a fresh quantity of malt. In operating as above, the mean tempe- rature of t\ie first mash is 145°; of the second mash, 170°; and of the third mash, 178° to 180° Pahr. To obtain these temperatures in winter, the water must be used 7° or 8° higher than in summer (as noticed above), to compensate for the greater loss of heat by ex- posure to a cold atmosphere. Pale malt and mixtures of malt and raw grain, should be mashed for a longer time, and at a rather lower temperature than brown or high-dried malt. It is found that about 32 gal. of the water employed in mashing a quarter of malt remain in the ‘ grains ’ after the wort is drawn off, and though of no great value, is so much lost to the whole quantity of the brewing, and must be compensated for by calculation.^ 2. Boiling :—The wort is next transferred to the copper, and heated to the boiling point as soon as possible. In large breweries where several coppers are employed, the first mash is no sooner run into the ‘ underback,’ than it is transferred to the ‘ wort-copper,’ and imme- diately boiled, the successive ‘ mashings ’ being added as soon as drawn off; but in private houses where there is only one copper, the boiling cannot be commenced until the water for the last mashing is removed. In some cases the worts are broiled and brewed separately, so as to produce 2 or 3 qualities of beer, as strong ale or stout, beer, and table-beer, from the same batch of malt. As soon as the boiling of the wort com- mences the hops are added, and the boiling 1 By adopting the Scotch system of ‘ sparging,’ this loss, thougli little, may be avoided.