BLACKING. 326 cellent; but this, probably, does not depend on the presence of t\iQ India-rubber, hutoxi the gene- ral correctness of the proportions, and the care and completeness with which they are mixed. 5. (Without Vitriol.) Take of ivory-black (in very fine powder), 2 lb.; treacle, lb.; sperm- oil, ^ pint; mix, as before; then add of gum- arabic, 1 oz.; (dissolved in) strong vinegar, | pint; mix well; the next day further add of good vinegar, or strong sour-beer, 3 to 4 pints (or q. s.); stir briskly for a i of an hour, and again once a day for a week. Excellent. A cheaper, but inferior article, may be made by the ‘reductions’ and ‘omissions’ noticed above. 6. From paste blacking (see below), by re- ducing it with sufficient vinegar, sour beer, or water, to give it the liquid form.^ II. Paste Blacking :— 1. Qualities from ‘ good’ to ‘ super-excellent’ may be made from any of the preceding formu- Ice, by simply omitting the final dilution with the ‘vinegar,’ ‘sour beer,’ or ‘water,’ therein ordered at the end of the process. 2. (Bryant and James’s India-etjbber Paste Blacking.—Patent dated 1836.) Of India-rubber oil, ivory-black, treacle, and gum- arabic, the same as for their liquid blacking (see I., 4, above), hut dissolving the last, in only 12 lb. (say 5 quarts), instead of 20 gal. of vinegar; grinding to a smooth paste in a colour-mill, and then adding of oil of vitriol, 12 lb., as before. The ‘ mass’ is to be stirred daily for a week, when it will be fit for use, or ‘potting.’2 Excellent. 3. Ivory-black,\ cwt.; treacle, 28,* rape- oil (or other ‘ cheap oil’), 1 gal.; mix, as before; then add of oil of vitriol, 21 lb.; (diluted with) water, 2 gal.; mix them quickly and tho- roughly hy forcible stirring with a strong wooden spatula, and as soon as admixture is complete, but whilst still fuming, put the cover on the tub, and leave it till the next day, when {without f urther stirring) it will be fit for use or sale.^ Good ordinary. Used for packets and tins. 4. As the last; but adding, with the ‘ivory- black,’ &c., 14 to 28 lb. of coal-soot ^ (sifted), omitting one-half of the ‘ oil,’ and diluting the ‘ vitriol’ with an extra gal. of water. Inferior. Chiefly used for Id. and \d. packets.® 1 It is sometimes convenient to prepare liquid hlacMng in this way from a ‘ stock’ of ‘ paste-blacking ’ already on hand. 2 The final addition of the 3 Ih. of powdered gum, ordered in the formula of their ‘liquid blacking,’ is not mentioned by the patentees ; and we, therefore, presume they do not intend it to be made. If made, it should be at the*end of the week, and the daily stirring must then be continued for another This ‘ addition,’ or ‘ omission,’ enables us to produce two qualities from the same formula. ® The object here is to make the ‘product’ as spongy and light as possible, so that the purchaser may fancy he has “ a great deal for his money.” * This is also to give ‘bulk.’ 5 A stiU more common article is vended in the north of England, and in Scoiland, in which the ‘ oil’ is omitted altogether. The sale of such blackings (?) is disreputable, when it is remembered that a really good article may be made for ‘id. to 'i\d. per lb. 5. (Geeman Blacking.) Ivory-black, 1 part; treacle, ^ part; sweet oil, | part; mix, as before ; then stir in a mixture of hydrochloric acid, I part; oil of vitriol, \ part (each sepa- rately diluted with twice its weight of water before mixing them). This forms the ordi- nary paste-blacking of Germany, according to Liebig. 6. (Without Vitriol.) As I., 5 {ante); but with the omission of the last i gal. of ‘ vine- gar.’ Concluding Remarks. To produce 2l first-rate article of blacking it is absolutely necessary that the ingredients be of the best quality, and used in the proper proportions; and that the order of their admixture, and the general manipulations, be conducted, under ordinary circumstances, in the manner described in the first of the above formulae. The proportions of the treacle and the oil (the most expensive of the ingredients) should not be stinted; and, indeed, that of the latter may be safely in- creased in quantity, without materially affect- ing the polish, and with manifest advantage as far as the softness and durability of the leather to which it is applied, is concerned. The manipulations required in the manufacture of both paste-blacking and liquid blacking, are essentially the same; the difference between the two articles, when the same materials are used, depending entirely on the quantity of liquid added. Thus, as noticed before, by diluting ‘ paste-blacking’ with water, vinegar, or beer-bottoms, it may be converted into ^ LIQUID BLACKING of a nearly similar quality ; and, by using less fluid matter, the ingre- dients of‘liquid blacking’ will produce paste- blacking. One thing must, however, be ob- served, and that is, that the ivory-black used for ! liquid blacking should be reduced to a much | finer powder than for paste-blacking; as, if this is not attended to, it is apt to settle at the \ bottom, and to be with difficulty again diffused ? through the liquid. Persons who object to the use of blacking containing ‘ oil of vitriol,’ j, may employ formula I. 5, or II. 6 {above). The vitriol, however, greatly contributes to pro- mote the shining properties of the blacking; I and in small quantities, or in the proper pro- j; portion, is not so injurious to the leather as : some persons have represented; as it wholly ji unites itself to the lime of the bone-phosphate • contained in the ivory-black, and is thus neu- ■ i tralised, insoluble sulphate of lime, and an acid- I phosphate or superphosphate, being formed. It | is the latter that gives the acidity to a well- I made sample of blacking, and not the ‘ sul- i phuric acid’ originally added to it. In this way, the larger portion of the ivory-black is reduced to a state of extremely minute divi- sion, and with the other ingredients forms a strongly adhesive paste, which clings to the surface of the leather, and is susceptible of | receiving a high polish by friction when in a t scarcely dry state. This is the reason why i lamp-black should never be employed for |