CAKAMEL—CARBOLIC ACID. 395 Balsam of copaiba (capivi) and oil of cubebs, or a mixture of them, castor oil and cod-liver oil, are the substances most usually adminis- tered in this way. Baccce copaiferce factitioe are officinal in the Ph. Castr. Ruth. Ratier has proposed to grease them and administer them per anum. Ricord has strongly recom- i mended capsules of copaiba, coated with extract of rhaiany, as much superior to the common ones of copaiba alone, in the treatment of gleet and gonorrhoea. They may be easily prepared by either of the following methods : I 1. By immersing, for an instant, the com- mon capsule in a mixture of extract of rhatany (newly prepared from the root), 3 parts ; syrup of moist sugar, 1 part; mucilage of gum I Arabic, 1 ^art; melted together in a water ! bath. 2. By forming the bodies of the capsules with the above mixture or composition, instead of with gelatine, and then following the same 1 manipulations as for the manufacture of the common gelatine capsules. These capsules are said to sit well upon the stomach, the tone of which they contribute to improve, and to act with greater certainty than those made of copaiba and gelatine alone. CAR'AMEL. A dark-brown product obtained by heating sugar. It is formed during the roasting of all materials containing sugar, such as coffee and malt. It is much used for colouring soups, wines, spirits, and other liquids. Crude Caramel. Syn. Spieit coloueing, Buent stjgae. Prep. From cane sugar, by heating it to from 410° to 428° Fahr., as long as aqueous vapour is formed; dissolving the product in water, and concentrating the solution by evaporation. I Pure Caramel. Prep. 1. (Graham.) Crude caramel, obtained as above, is placed on a parch- ment paper dialyser. The undecomposed sugar and certain intermediate compounds diffuse out with considerable facility, and wdiat ulti- mately remains on the dialyser possesses five times the colouring-power of the original crude caramel, weight for weight. See Dia- , LYSIS. 2. (Peligot.) Add strong alcohol to a filtered aqueous solution of crude caramel until it ceases to produce a precipitate; collect the precipi- tate, which is caramel, on a filter, wash with alcohol, and dry. Graham recommends that the product should be dissolved and precipi- tated four or five times, or till the mass thrown down, from being plastic at first, becomes pul- verulent. 3. (J. J. Pohl.) Cane sugar is heated in a spacious metallic vessel by means of an oil bath to 410° or 419° Fahr. as long as aqueous vapours escape, the mass being occasionally stirred with a spatula. The mass is then finely powdered and digested with alcohol for tw'o or three hours j the digestion is repeated until the fluid no longer tastes bitter. Prop. A solution containing lOg of purified caramel is gummy, and forms a tremulous jelly on standing. Evaporated in vacuo, it dries up into a black shining mass soluble in water; but if the solution be evaporated to dryness by the heat of a water bath, the whole matter is rendered insoluble in hot or cold water. A very small proportion of caramel suffices to give a rich sepia tint to water. CAR'AT. A weight of 4 grains used in weighing diamonds, which are spoken of as of so many carats weight. Among assayers, a carat is a weight of 12 grains; but more commonly a proportional weight or term, re- presenting the number of parts of pure gold in 24 parts of the alloy; pure gold being spoken of as of 24 carats fine. It is commonly the 24th part of the assay pound,” and is nominally subdivided into 4 assay grains, and these again into quarters. See Assaying. CAR'AW AY. Syn. Caeaway seed; Se'- MENA CAEri, L.; Caeui, Ph. L. The fruit of the Carum Carui (Linn.), an umbelliferous plant, common in England and other parts of Europe. These fruits, commonly called “ seeds,” form an agreeable and useful aromatic and carminative, and are especially esteemed in the flatulent colic of children. They are also largely employed as an adjuvant or corrective in various officinal preparations; and as a flavoring ingredient in cakes, biscuits, cordials, confectionary, &c. See Essences. CARBAMTC ACID. A compound contain- ing the elements of ammonia and carbonic acid, formed by mixing together dry am- moniacal gas and dry carbonic acid. It was formerly supposed to be anhydrous carbonate of ammonia. CAR'BAMIDE. A peculiar compound, said to be identical with ijeea. It is formed by the action of ammonia on chloro-carbonic acid. CARBAZOTIC ACID. See Piceic Acid. CAR'BIDE. See Caebueet. CARBOLTC ACID. Syn. Phe'nic acid, Phe'nole, Hydeate of phe'nyle, Hydea- TED OXIDE OF P., PhENYlTc ALCOHOL. One of the products of the destructive distillation of coal. Prep. 1. Crude coal-oil is agitated with milk of lime, and after the whole has been left for a considerable time, the aqueous portion is separated from the undissolved oil, and decom- posed by hydrochloric acid; the oily product is then purified by cautious distillation, the first third only that comes over being col- lected. 2. (Laurent.) Crude coal-oil is distilled in a retort furnished with a thermometer, and the portion which passes over when the heat ranges between 300° and 400° Fahr., is collected apart, and mixed with a hot saturated solution of caustic potassa; after standing for some time, a semi-crystalline pasty mass forms, from which the supernatant liquid is decanted; the pasty mass is now agitated with a small quan-