1313 VINEGAR. I one or two successive nights^ and followed by gentle exercise until the ball begins to operate. WoEM BALLS.—1. Barbadoes aloes, 5 dr.; j calomel and ginger; of each, 2 dr.; oil of dotes, 12 drops; treacle, q. s. for a ball. I 2. (J. Bell & Co.) Barbadoes aloes, 5 to 8 dr.; powdered tin, ethiofs niineral, and ginger, I of each, 2 dr.; oils of aniseed and sdvine, of each, 20 drops; treacle, q. s. for a ball. 3. (Clater.) Sulphur and emetic tartar, of jeach, 1 dr.; linseed meal, 4 dr.; palm oil, q. s. ito form a ball. One every morning, having prepared the animal with a physic ball con- taining 1 dr. of calomel. \ VIN'EGAR. Syn. Acetum, L. ; ViNAiGEh, Pr. Dilute acetic acid, more or less cdntami- inated with gum, sugar, and vegetable matter. 1. Malt vinegae, Beitish v.; Acetltm Beitannicttm (Ph. L. & E.), L. This is the Drdinary coloured vinegar consumed in this Dountry, and is correctly described in the Ph. L. as “ impure (dilute) acetic acid, prepared Dy fermentation from an infusion of malt 'malt-wort).” In the manufacture of Malt tinegae a mix- ture of malt and barley is mashed with hot water, and the resulting wort is fermented, as in the common process of brewing. The liquor is then run into barrels, placed endways, tied Dver with coarse canvas, and arranged side by , nde in darkened chambers, moderately heated ! by a stove, and freely supplied with air. Here t remains till the acetous fermentation is learly complete, which usually occupies several i veeks, or even months. The newly formed \ nnegar is ne^t run off into two large tuns, t 'urnished with false bottoms, on which some rape’ (the pressed cake from making domestic vines, or the green twigs or cuttings of vines) s placed. One of these Vessels is wholly, and ,;he other only about 3-4ths, filled. The fer- nentation recommences, and the acetifiOation Droceeds more rapidly in the latter than iii he former tuP, and the liquor it contains con- sequently matures the sooner. When fit for ale, a portion of the vinegar is withdrawn rom the smaller quantity, and its place sup- died with a like quantity from the full tun, : ind this in its turn is refilled from the barrels )efore noticed. This process is carried on with I number of tuns at once, which are all worked n pairs. Formerly, malt vinegar was wholly made by ilacing the wort in casks, loosely covering the mng-holes with tiles, and exposing them to he joint action of sun and air for several Inonths, or until the acetifica:tion was com- |»lete. I Prop., &^c. The general properties of malt \inegar are well known. Its pleasant and re- freshing odour is chiefiy derived from acetic icid and acetic ether. Its strength is distin- guished by the makers as Nos. 18, 20, 22, and !4; the last of which, also called ‘peoof [ iNEGAE,’ is the strongest, and usually con- jains about 4'6g of real or about 5§ of glacial acetic acid. Its density varies according to the quantity of foreign matter which it con- tains. Sp. gr. 1*006 to 1*019—Ph. E; 1*019— Ph. L.; 1*0135 to 1*0251—Thomson. This vinegar usually contains a small quantity of sulphuric acid. The presence of 1-lOOOth part of this acid is allowed by law. Pur. “ Brownish; of a peculiar odour. Its sp. gr. is 1*019. 1 fl. oz. of the acid is satu- rated by 1 dr. of the crystals of carbonate of soda. If, after 10 minims of solution of chlo- ride of barium have been added to the same quantity, more of the chloride be poured into the filtered acid, nothing further is thrown down. The colour is not changed by the ad- dition of hydrosulphuric acid.” (Ph. L.) ** So- lution of chloride of barium being added to 1 fi. oz. of this vinegar^ the precipitated sulphate of baryta does not exceed in weight 1*14 gr.” (Ph. L. 1836.) 2. Wine vinegae, Peench v.; Acetum GalLICUM (Ph. E. & D.), A. VINI, L. ; VlNAI- GEE d’Oeleans, Pr. This is prepared, in wine countries, from grape juice and inferior new wines, worked up with wine-lees, by a nearly similar process to that adopted for malt vinegar. That prepared from white wine (white-WINE vinegae) is the most esteemed. It is purer and pleasanter than malt vinegar. Sp. gr. 1*014 to 1*022—Ph. E.; 1*016—Phillips. It usually coritains from 5 to 6g of acetic acid. “ 100 parts of good Orleans Vinegar should require 10 parts of dry carbonate of potassa for saturation.” (Soubeiran.) 3. GeEMAST, or QtriCK-METHOD OF MAKING VINEGAE; PEOCESS OF Ham. This method is based upon the fact, that acetification is the mere oxidation of alcohol in contact with organic matter. Hence, by employing dilute alcohol, or liquors containing it, and by vastly enlarging the surface of the liquid exposed to the air at a proper temperature, we may reduce the period occupied in acetification from weeks tO as many hours. In practice this is effected by causing the dilute spirit, previously mixed With 1-lOOOth part of sugar or malt extract, or the fermented and clarified mhlt-wort, to slowly trickle down through a mass of beech shavings steeped in vinegar, and contained in a vessel called a vinegar generator (essigbilder), or graduation vessel. This is an oaken tub, narrower at the bottom than at the top, furnished with a loose lid or cover, below which is a perforated shelf (colander or false bottom), having a number of small holes, which are loosely filled with packthread about 6 inches long, and prevented from falling through by a knot at the upper end. The shelf is also perforated with four open glass tubes, as air-vents, each having its ends pro- jecting above and below the shelf. This arrangement is repeated a second and a third time, or even oftener, according to the size of the vessel. The tub or graduator at its lower part is pierced with a horizontal row of eight equidistant round holes, to admit atmospheric 83 1