POTASSIUM. 1122 mixed with dry carbonate of potassa, 3 parts; I steam-heat, with agitation, then to redissol this mixture is thrown into a red-hot earthen 1 the residuum in the least possible quantity crucible, and kept in a state of fusion, with | hoiliny water, and, after defecation or filtr occasional stirring, until gas ceases to be evolved, and the fluid portion of the mass becomes colourless; the crucible is then left at rest for a few minutes, to allow its contents to settle, after which the clear portion is poured from the heavy black sediment at the bottom, upon a clean marble slab, and the mass, whilst yet warm, broken up, and placed in well-closed bottles. Obs. A cheap and excellent process. The product is said to contain about l-8th part of cyanate of potassa, and, though not sufficiently tion, to allow the new solution to cool ve slowly, that crystals may form. 2. (Extemporaneous.) Add nitric acid, ve gradually, to a cold solution of ferrocyanide potassium, with constant agitation, until ' drop of the mixture ceases to impart a bl colour to a solution of sesquichloride of irOj carefully avoiding excess of acid. It may at once used in solution, or evaporated, & as before. Prop., &^c. Magnificent regular prismali or, sometimes tabular crystals, of a rich rub. pure for employment in medicine as cyanide of \ red tint; permanent in the air; combustibl potassium, is admirably adapted for the various technical applications of this substance, as in electro-plating, electro-gilding, photography, &c. It may also be advantageously substituted for the ferrocyanide in the preparation of hydro- cyanic acid by the distillation of that substance along with dilute sulphuric acid. Prop., Sfc. When pure, this salt is colour- less and odourless; it forms cubic or octahe- dral crystals, which are anhydrous; it is freely soluble in water and in boiling alcohol, but most of it separates from the latter as the solution cools; it is fusible; and undergoes no change, even at a full red heat, in close vessels; it exhibits an alkaline reaction; when exposed to the atmosphere, it absorbs moisture, and acquires the smell of hydrocyanic acid. If it effervesces with acids, it contains carbonate of potassa, and if it be yellow it contains iron. It is employed in chemical analyses, and for the preparation of hydrocyanic acid; cyanide OP SODA may be made in the same way. The dose is y>2 to ^ gr., in solution; in the usual cases in which the administration of hydro- cyanic acid is indicated. Ferricy'anide of Potassium. Syn. Feeeid- CYANIDE OP POTASSIUM, FeEEICYANUEET OP p.. Red peussIj^te op potash; Potassii PEEEICYANIDUM, P. PEUSSIA3 EUBEUM, L. This important and beautiful salt was dis- covered % L. Gmelin. At first it was merely regarded as a chemical curiosity, but it is now extensively employed in dyeing, calico-printing, assaying, &c. Prep. 1. Chlorine gas, prepared in the ordinary manner, is slowly passed into a cold solution of ferrocyanide of potassium, 1 part, in water, 10 parts, with constant agitation, until the liquid appears of a deep reddish-green colour, or of a fine red colour by transmitted decomposed by a high temperature; solul in 4 parts of cold water; insoluble in alcoh' Its most remarkable property is its not affec ing solutions of the sesquisalts or persalts iron, by which it becomes a valuable test 1 the protosalts of that metal. It is furth distinguished by precipitating solutions of bismuth (pale), cadmium, peroxide of mercio and zinc (deep), of a yellow colour;—mercw cobalt (dark), copper, molybdenum, silver, ai uranium, reddish brown;—peroxide of coppi greenish yellow;—protoxide of iron, blue; manganese, brown;—nickel, yellowish-brov or olive-green ;—and protoxide of tin, whit hence its use in chemical analysis. Ferrocy'anide of Potassium. Syn. Feee CYANUEET OP POTASSIUM, PeUSSIATE OF PO ASH, Yellow p. of p.; Potassii peeeoc ANiDUM (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. This valual salt, the well-known *prussiate of potash’ commerce, was discovered by the illustrio- Scheele about the middle of the 18th centui It is now only manufactured on the lar scale. Prep. Good * potash* or ‘pearlash,* 2 par and dried blood, horns, hoofs, woollen rags, other refuse animal matter, 5 or 6 parts, a reduced to coarse powder, and mixed wi some coarse iron borings ; the mixture is th injected into egg-shaped cast-iron pots in state of moderate ignition; the mass is fi quently stirred with an iron spatula, so as prevent it running together, and the calcir tion is continued until fetid vapours cease be evolved, and flame is no longer seen stirring the mixture, care being taken exclude the air from the vessels as much possible; during the latter part of the proc( the pots are kept constantly covered, and t ignited mass stirred less frequently; the h light, and ceases to give a blue precipitate, or pasty mass is then removed with an iron lad even a blue tinge, to a solution of sesquichloride j and excluded from the air until cold; it of iron, an excess of chlorine being carefully ! next exhausted by edulcoration with boili avoided; the liquor is next evaporated by the I water, and the resulting solution, after de: heat of steam or boiling water, until a pellicle forms upon the surface, when it is filtered, and set aside to cool; the crystals are after- wards purified by re-solution and recrystalli- zation.—Another method is simply to eva- porate the original solution to dryness, by a cation or filtration, is concentrated by e\ poration, so that crystals may form as t liquid cools; these are redissolved in hot wati and the solution allowed to cool very slow when large and beautiful yellow crystals ferrocyanide of potassium are deposited.