GUNJAH—GUTTA PERCHA. 721 ^ a fine bolting sieve of brass wire. The char- coal is that of the alder or willow, and is carefully burnt, as already described,^ and is then reduced to powder. The sulphur is re- I fined by distillation, and ground to the same lineness as the charcoal and saltpetre. The ingredients are weighed out in the proper pro- portions, and mixed together in a machine consisting of a wooden drum, having a shaft passing through its centre, to which numerous ‘dyers’ in the shape of knife-blades are at- t, tached, the drum and flyers revolving in a I' contrary direction. When mixed, the charge i is carried to the ‘ incorporating mill,’ where it is ground under vertical iron ‘mill-stones,’ I with a small quantity of distilled water^ until > the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated. 1 The product of this operation is then pressed { into a hard cake, Avhich is next broken into t pieces, granulated by means of sieves, and t after being ‘ glazed ’ by friction, and the dust I separated, is dried, with proper precautions, in a stove heated to about 130° by steam » pipes. ' The 'proportions of saltpetre, charcoal, and - sulphur, used for different kinds of powder, differ very slightly. In ‘sporting powders’ the proportion of saltpetre is generally from 1 to 3§ greater than in the Government pow- ders. In ‘ miners’ powders ’ it is about lOg less, an excess of sulphur being used. The following are the proportions adopted by Eu- ropean powers i Saltpetre. Charcoal. Sulj)hur. i England 75 15 10 j France 75 12-5 12-5 [ Austria 75 15 10 Prussia 75 13-5 11-5 1 Russia 73-78 13-59 12-63 1 Spain 76-47 10-78 12-75 1 Sweden 76 15 9 j (Capt. Jervis-White Jervis.) I Ohs. The qualitxj of gimpowder is best esti- mated by actual trial of its power and clean- liness in use. It should be dry, hard, and free from dust; the grains should be of a I uniform size, and glossy, and the colour a I dark-gray or brownish-gray, not perfectly j black. A very little placed on a piece of ! paper and fired should instantly explode with I a flash, and neither leave an appreciable resi- ' duo on the paper nor burn it. Dried by the I heat of boiling water, or in vacuo, it should ' not lose more than ^ to Ig of its weight. I Damp powder rapidly ‘ fouls ’ the gun. Gun- ! powder, containing more than 7g of water, I does not recover its strength by simply drying ' it. The sp. gr. ranges between 1-795 and ' 1-800. White Gunpowder. Syn. Blasting pow- DEii. Prep. 1. See Blasting Powder, No. 3. 2. Yellow prussiale of potash and white \ sugar, of each, 1 part; chlorate of potassa, 2 ^ See page 433. parts; powder each separately, and mix them well, but carefully, with a bone or wooden knife. It may be granulated like gunpowder, by making the powder into a paste with a little water, and pressing the mass through a parchment sieve.- GUN'JAH. See Hemp (Indian). GUT. Syn. Fishing gut. Silkworm g. This is obtained from the Bombyx ■mori (Linn.) or silkworm caterpillar. Prep. The silkworms, when just ready to spin, are steeped in strong vinegar for 12 hours in warm weather, or 2 or 3 in cold weather, and are then broken in half, and stretched out as far as possible on a board, furnished with slits or pegs to hold them; in this state they are allowed to dry in the sun or a warm place. Ohs. Used by anglers. The worms may be known to be going to spin by refusing food, and by having a fine silken thread hanging from the mouth.^ GUT'TA PER'CHA. The concrete juice of the Isonandra Gutta, a tree growing only in the Malayan Archipelago, and of other species of the same genus. The stem of the gutta- percha tree grows to the diameter of 5 or 6 feet, and on being notched yields a milky juice, which, after exposure to the air for some time, solidifies, forming the gutta percha of commerce. It arrives in this country in ir- regular blocks of some pounds in weight, usually containing a large portion of impuri- ties in the form of pieces of wood, stones, and earth. To prepare this crude product for manufacturing into useful articles, the blocks are first cut into slices, and then torn into shreds. These are softened by hot water, and kneaded in a ‘ masticator,’ the stones, earth, and other impurities, being gradually washed away by water. After several hours the gutta percha is found to be kneaded into perfectly homogeneous mass, which is rolled or drawn into sheets, bands, or tubes, as re- quired. Prop., 4'c. Gutta percha is a tough, in- elastic substance, becoming soft and plastic at 212° Fahr., at which temperature two pieces may be firmly welded together. It is one of the best ‘insulators’ of electricity, is im- pervious to moisture, and resists the action of acids and alkalies to a great extent. Its best solvents are benzole, chloroform, bisulphuret of carbon, rectified mineral naphtha, and rec- tified oil of turpentine. All these dissolve it readily. According to the analysis of Bayen, the purified gutta percha of commerce consists of 75 to 82g of chemically pure gutta percha, which is insoluble in ether and alcohol,^ and a ivhite and a yellow resin, soluble in boiling al- cohol. Uses. These are numerous and varied. No substance, perhaps, with the exception ot caoutchouc, has been ‘tortured’ to so many 2 See the precautions uoticed under Blasting Powder, page 339. 3 Nohb’s ‘‘Jrt of TroUiiig.’* 46