WAX. 1332 these substances, it undergoes the operation of refining’ This is done by melting the wax along with about 4 or 5g of water in a bright copper or stone-ware boiler, preferably heated by steam, and, after the whole is perfectly liquid, and has boiled for some minutes, with- drawing the heat, and sprinkling over its sur- face a little oil of vitriol, in the proportion of about 5 or 6 fl. oz. to every cwt. of wax. This operation should be conducted with great care and circumspection; as, when done carelessly, the melted wax froths up, and bolls over the sides of the pan. The acid should also be well scattered over the whole surface. The melted wax is next covered over, and left for some hours to settle, or until it becomes sufficiently cool to be drawn off for ‘ moulding.’ It is then very gently skimmed with a hot ladle, baled or decanted into hot tin fades’ and by means of these poured into basins, where it is left to cool. Great care must be taken not to disturb the sediment. When no more clear wax can be drawn off, the remainder in the melting-pan is allowed to cool, and the cake, or ‘foot,’ as it is called, is taken Out, and the impurities (mostly bees) scraped from its under surface. The scraped cake is usually reserved for a second operation; but if required, it may be at once remelted, and strained through canvas into a mould. Much of the foreign wade has a pale dirty colour, which renders it, no matter however pure, objectionable to the retail purchaser. Such wax undergoes the operation of ‘ colour- ing’ as well as ‘ refining.’ A small quantity of the best roll annotta, cut into slices lb., more or less, to wax, 1 cwt., depending on the pale- ness of the latter), is put into a clean boiler with about a gallon of water, and boiled for some time, or until it is perfectly dissolved, when a few ladlefuls of the melted wax are added, and the boiling continued until the wax has taken up all the colour, or until the water is mostly evaporated. The portion of Wax thus treated has now a deep orange colour, and is added, in quantity as required, to the remainder of the melted wax in the larger boiler until the proper shade of colour is produced when cold; the whole being well mixed, and a sample of it cooled now and then, to ascertain when enough has been added. The copper is next brought to a boil, and treated with oil of vitriol, &c., as before. Some persons add palm oil (bright) to the wax, until it gets sufficient colour, but this plan is objectionable from the quantity required for the purpose being often so large as to injure the quality of the pro- duct; besides which the colour produced is inferior, and less transparent and permanent than that given by annotta. Another method of refining crude wax, and which produces a very bright article, is to melt it in a large earthen or stoneware vessel, heated by steam or a salt-water bath, then to cau- tiously add to it about of concentrated nitric acid, and to continue the boiling until nitrous fumes cease to be evolved, after which the whole is allowed to settle, and is treated as before. Obs. The great art in the above process is to produce a wax which shall at once be ‘ bright,’ or semi-translucent in thin pieces, and good coloured. The former is best ensured by allowing the melted mass to settle well, and by carefully skimming and decanting the clear portion without disturbing the sediment. It should not be poured into the moulds too warm, as, iii that cage, it is apt to ‘separate’ and the resulting cakes to be ^ streaky,’ or of different shades of colour. Again, it should be allowed to cool very slowly. When cooled rapidly, especially if a current of air fall upon its surface, it is apt to crack, and to form cakes full of fissures. Some, persons, who are very nice about their wax, have the cakes polished with a stiff briish when quite cold and hard. It is absolutely necessary that the ‘jacks’ or cans, ladles, and skimmers, used in the above process, be kept pretty hot, as without this precaution tbe wax cools, and accumulates upon them in such quantity as to render them in- convenient, and often quite useless, without being constantly scraped out. Sealing-wax. Prep. 1. (Red.) — a. Take of shell-lac (very pale), 4 oz.; cautiously melt it in a bright copper pan over a clear charcoal fire, and, when fused, add of Venice turpentine, l:f oz.; mix, and further add of vermilion, 3 oz.; remove the pan from the fire, cool a little, weigh it into pieces, and roll them into circular sticks on a warm marble slab by means of a polished wobden block; or it may be poured into moulds whilst in a state of fusion. Some persons polish the sticks with a rag until quite cold. b. From shell-lac, 3 lb.; Venice turpentine, li lb. ; finest cinnabar, 2 lb.; mix as before. Roth the above are ‘fine.’ c. As the last, but using ^ lebs of vermilion. Inferior. d. Resin, 4 lb.; shell-lac, 2 lb.; Venice tur- pentine and red lead, of each, lb.; as before. Common. 2. (Black;.)—d. From shell-lab, 60 parts; finest ivory black, reduced to an impalpable powder, 30 parts; Venibe turpentine, 20 parts. Fine. ^ b. Resin, 6 lb.; shell-lac and Venice tur- pentine, of each, 2 lb.; lUmpblack, q. s. In- ferior. 3. (GoLD-COLOtJEED.) By stirring gold- coloured mica spangles or talc, or aurum musi- Vum, into the melted resins just before they begin to cool. Fine. 4. (Maebled.) By mixing 2 or 3 dif- ferent coloured kinds just as they begin to grow solid. 5. (SoET.)—a. {Red.) Take of bees’ wax, 8 parts; olive oil, 5 parts; melt, and add, of Venice turpentine, 15 parts; red lead, to colour. —b. {Green.) As the last, but substituting powdered verdigris for red lead. Both are used