LEUCANILINE—LICHENS. 833 I Ph. D. The “ inspissated juice” of Lactuca I virosa or strong-scented wild lettuce, is also i officinal in the Ph. E.; and both the “ leaves j and inspissated juice” of the same variety are I ordered in the Ph. D. The last species is i more powerful than the cultivated lettuce. 1 See Extract and Lactfcaeium. LEUCAN'ILINE. A base having the for- I mula C40H21N3, obtained by acting upon ro- I saniline (‘ magenta’) with sulphuret of ammo- j nium. It is colourless, and forms colourless ! salts. Oxidizing agents reproduce rosaniline. LEU'CINE. An organic first discovered in I putrid cheese. It is formed by the decompo- ! sition of many animal substances, such as I glue, horn, wool, &c., during putrefaction, and ,by the treatment of these substances with acids or alkalis. It may be obtained arti- ficially by digesting a mixture of valeric alde- hyde-ammonia, hydrocyanic acid, and hydro- , chloric acid. Leucine is a crystallizable sub- ; stance, forming small white scales or lamellae, (which fuse at 212°, and may be sublimed without decomposition; it is but little soluble I in water, still less in alcohol, and insoluble in : ether. Treatment with nitrous acid gives rise I to LETJCIC ACID, which is analogous to lactic acid. I LEUCORRH(E'A. Syn. Whites; Catar- , RHUS YAGiNiE, Fluor albijs, L. The symp- i toms of this disease are well known to most 1 adult females. The common causes are de- I bility, a poor diet, excessive use of hot tea, I profuse menstruation or purgation, late hours, I immoderate indulgence of the passions, fre- ' quent miscarriages, protracted or difficult '.labours, or local relaxation. Occasionally it j is symptomatic of other affections. The treat- I ment must be directed to the restoration of ; the general health, and imparting tonicity to Khe parts affected. Tepid or sea bathing, or I shower baths; bark, chalybeates, and other I tonics; with local affusions of cold water, and , mild astringent injections, as those of black tea or oak bark, are generally found successful in 1 ordinary cases. I LEU'KOL. A substance, accompanied by I KYANOL, separated from coal-oil by agitating I large quantities of that liquid with hydro- I chloric or dilute sulphuric acid, and then dis- I tilling the acid along with caustic potassa or I quicklime, in excess. The mixed product is i separated into its component substances by fractional distillation. Recent researches have I shown leukol to be identical with chinoline. i LEVANT' NUT. See Cocculus Indichs. I LEVIGA'TION. Syn. Levigatio, L. The I process of reducing substances to fine pow^der, by making them into a paste with water, and 1 grinding the mass upon a hard smooth stone i or slab, with a conical piece of stone having a I flat, smooth, under-surface, called a ‘ muller.’ Levigation is resorted to in the preparation of paints on the small scale, and in the elu- I triation of powders. The term is also, some- : times, incorrectly applied to the lengthened trituration of a substance in a marble or wedge- wood-ware mortar. LEVORACE'MIC ACID. See Racemic Acid. LEY'DEN JAR. Syn. Leyden phial, Electrical jar. An instrument for the accumulation of the electric fluid. Its sim- plest form is that of a wide-mouthed jar of rather thin glass, coated on both sides with tin-foil, except on the upper portion, wdiicli is left uucoated, and having a 'cover of baked wood, through which passes a brass wire, ter- minating in a metallic knob, and communicating with the inner coating. To charge the jar, the outer coating is connected with the earth, and the knob put in contact with the ‘ conductor ’ of an electrical machine. The inner and outer surfaces of the glass thus become respectively ‘ positive ’ and ‘ negative,’ and the particles of the glass become strongly polarized. On making connection between the two coatings with a conducting substance, ^discharge’ takes place by a bright spark and a loud snap; and if any part of the body be interposed in the circuit, a ‘ shock ’ is felt. See Electric Ma- chine, Electrophorus, &c. LIBAVIUS’S LIQUOR. See Tin (Bichlo- ride). LI'CHEN. In pathology, a dry papulous or pimply eruption of the skin, terminating in scurfy exfoliations. “ Lichen exhibits great variety in its outward characters in different individuals; in one, the pimples are brightly red; in another, of debilitated constitution, they are bluish and livid; in a third, they are developed around the base of hairs; in a fourth, they appear as circular groups, and increase by their circumference, while they fade in the centre, forming so many rings of various size; in a fifth, a modification of the preceding, they have the appearance of flex- uous bands ; while in a sixth, they are remark- able for producing intensity of suffering, or unusual disorganization of the skin. They are all occasioned by constitutional disturbance, sometimes referable to the digestive, and some- times to the nervous system. In some instances, however, they depend upon a local cause. I have had a crop of lichenous pimples on the backs of my hands from rowing in hot weather; and in hot climates that annoying disorder called prickly heat is a lichen.” (Eras. Wil- son.) The treatment of this affection is noticed under Eruptions (Papular). LI'CHENS. Syn. Lichenes—Juss., Lichen- ales—Lind., L. In botany, these are cryptoga- mous plants, which appear under the form of thin. Hat crusts, covering rocks and the barks of trees. Some of them, like Iceland moss (Cetraria Islandica), are esculent and medicinal, and emploj’^ed either as medicine or food; and others, when exposed in a moistened state to the action of ammonia, yield purple or blue colouring principles, which, like indigo, do not pre-exist in the plant. Thus, the Rocella tinctoi'ia, the Variolaria orcina, the Lecanora 53