RUfTURE—SABADILLA. 1177 lightly inflamed at their base. These are owly succeeded by an ill-conditioned discharge, hich concretes into thin scabs, which are isily rubbed olF, and are rapidly regenerated, circumstance which more particularly dis- Inguishes this affection from ecthyma. In |UPIA SIMPLEX the crust or scab “ is com- Urable in appearance, and apparent construc- lon, and sometimes, also, in size, to an oyster- lell.” In another variety, elpia peominens, lie crust is “ conical in shape, and resembles a jmpet-shell.’* In eupia eschaeotica, which confined to infants and young children, lere are ill-looking sores, which, from their |2culiar corroded appearance, and the ab- •nce or the thin and imperfectly formed con- (ition of the crusts, have been termed ‘ buent oles.’ Rupia is a common consequence of dirt and umi-starvation; and, from thus occurring in jighly debilitated constitutions and cachectic labits, is very difficult to cure, and frequently ital. The treatment consists in the judicious jse of a light restorative diet, with tonics and l.teratives, assisted by warm bathing and ■ee exercise in the open air. RUP'TURE. See Suegeey. \ ETJSKS. Prep. From 4 eggs ; new milk and lam water, of each, ^ pint; melted butter and \igar, of each, i lb. ; yeast, 3 table-spoonfuls; jeat well together with as much Jlour, added iradually, as will make a very light paste; i;t it rise before the fire for half an hour, then lid a little more flour, form it into small loaves r cakes 5 or 6 inches wide, and flatten them; ,ake these moderately, and, when cold, cut iiem into slices the size of rusks, and put lem into the oven to brown a little. A .ice tea-cake when hot, or, with caraways, p eat cold. Plain eijsks are made by simply iatting loaves of bread into slices, and baking laem in a slow oven to the proper colour. 1 RUS'MA. An arsenical iron pyrites, found ji Galatia, which, when reduced to powder ind mixed with half its weight of quicklime, ji used by the Turkish ladies to make their PSILOTHEONS,’ or compounds to remove super- luous hair. See Depilatoey. I EUST. Syn. Rubigo, L. The coating or |lm of oxide or carbonate which forms on the arface of several of the metals when exposed p a moist atmosphere; more particularly, jliat which forms on iron or steel (hydeated lESQUIOXIDE OF lEON ; FEEETJGO, FEEEI EU- ilGO). To prevent iron or steel goods rusting, it is jierely necessary to preserve them from damp ir moisture. In the shops, small articles in \teel are, commonly, either varnished or en- jlosed in quicklime finely pulverized; large \rticles are generally protected with a coating )f plumbago, or of boiled oil, or some cheap |amis/i, applied to them, previously gently eated. Surgical instruments are frequently jlightly smeared with a little strong mercurial \intment, with the same intention. Spots of rust may be removed from the sur- face of polished iron or steel by rubbing them with a little tripoli or very flne emery made into a paste with sweet oil; or, chemically, by a mixture of polishePs putty-powder with a little oxalic acid, applied with water. When the last is employed, the articles should be afterwards well rinsed in pure water, then wiped dry, and finished off with a warm and dry rubber, in order to remove every trace of acid. EUTHENTUM. A metal, discovered by Claus, associated with ieidium, in the residue from crude platinum, which is insoluble in aqua regia. It forms small angular masses, with a metallic lustre; is very brittle and in- fusible ; resists the action of acids, but readily oxidizes when heated in the air. Sp. gr. 8*6. Chlo"ride of Ruthenium. Syn. SeSqui- CHLOEiDE OF ETJTHENIUM. Orange-yellow, astringent, and soluble. Its solution, when heated, turns first green and then blue, with decomposition, and, probably, the formation of the PEOTOCHLOEIDE. It forms double salts with the chlorides of ammonium and potas- sium. Ox'ides of Ruthenium. Three of these have been examined, and a fourth (exjthenic acid) is supposed to exist:— 1. Protoxide of Ruthenium. A grayish-black, bronze-like powder, obtained by heating bi- chloride of ruthenium with carbonate of soda in excess, in a stream of carbonic-acid gas, and then washing away the soluble saline matter. Thus prepared, it is insoluble or only feebly soluble in acids. 2. Sesquioxide of Ruthenium. In the anhy- drous state this is a bluish-black powder, formed by heating the metal in the air. It is also precipitated by alkalies from the sesqui- chloride as a blackish-brown hydrate, soluble in acids, forming orange-yellow salts. 3. Binoxide of Ruthenium. A deep-blue pow- der, procured by roasting the bisulphuret. RYE. Syn. Secale, L. The seed of Secale cereale, a gramineous plant, the native country of which is undetermined. It is a more certain crop and requires less culture and manure than wheat, and is hence largely cultivated in Germany, Russia, and the north- ern parts of Europe, where it is extensively employed for bread. When roasted, it is occasionally used as a substitute for cofiee. It furnishes an excellent malt for the distillation of spirit. Spurred Rye. See Eeqot. SABADIL'LA. Syn. Cebadilla, Ceta- DiLLA, Sabadilla (Ph. E.), L. The fruit or seeds of Asagrcea oflicinalis. A drastic and dangerous cathartic, occasionally used in tape- worm; and, externally, to destroy pediculi, but, even for this purpose, when the scalp has been denuded or ulcerated, it ha» sometimes