518 DIAMOND—DIAPHRAGM. evaporated by a v.'ater bath, yielded a white saline mass. From this mass Trr.i;A v;as ex- tracted by alcohol in so pure a condition as to appear in crystalline tufts upon the evapora- tion of the alcohol. 2. By pouring silicate of soda into diluted hydrochloric acid (the acid being maintained in large excess), a solution of silica is obtained. But in addition to hydrochloric acid, such a solution contains chloride of sodium, a salt which causes the silica to gelatinize when the solution is heated, and otherwise modifies its properties. Now, such a solution, placed for 24 hours in a dialyser of parchment-paper, was found to lose 5jJ of its silicic acid (silica) and 86g of its hydrochloric acid. After 4 days on the dialyser, the liquid ceased to be disturbed by nitrate of silver. All the chlo- rides were gone, with no further loss of silica. What remained was a puee soletion op SILICIC ACID, which could be boiled in a flask, and considerably concentrated, without change. 3. Half a litre of dark-coloured porter, with •05 gramme of arsenious acid added (75,500^^^ jiart of arsenious acid), was placed on a ‘ hoop dialyser,’ 8 inches in diameter, and the whole floated in an earthenware basin containing 2 or 3 litres of water. After 24 hours the latter fluid had acquired a slight tinge of yellow. It yielded, when concentrated and precipitated by sulphuretted hydrogen, upwards of one half of the original aesenious acid in a fit state for examination. DI'AMOND. The diamond is pure carbon, and diflers from the carbon of charcoal and lampblack simply in being limpid, colourless, and highly refractive of light, properties which are generally referred to its crystalline form. The weight, and, consequently, the value of diamonds, is estimated in carats, one of which is equal to 4 grains; and the price of one diamond, compared to that of another of equal colour, transparency, purity, form, &c., is as the squares of the respective weights. The average price of eodgh diamonds, that are worth working, is about £2 for the first carat; that of a cut diamond is equal to that of a rough diamond of double weight, exclusive of the price of workmanship. “ To estimate the value of a wrought diamond, ascertain its weight in carats, double that weight, and mul- tiply the square of this product by £2.” (Ure.) Thus, a cut diamond of— 1 carat is worth £8 2 carats „ £32 3 „ „ £72 4 „ „ £128 &c., <kc. See Caebon, Gems. Di'amond Dust. Genuine diamond dust is the powder produced by the abrasion of diamonds against each other in the process of cutting and polishing them. It possesses the valuable property of polishing the gems, and giving “ the finest edge to every kind of cut- lery.” The discovery of the latter fact, a few years since, led certain dishonest persons to extensively advertise spurious preparations, consisting chiefly of emery powder or powdered quartz, under the name of diamond dust. The factitious articles acquired a very short and I bad notoriety. Instead of sharpening cutting instruments, they infallibly destroyed their j edge, and were particularly unfortunate in con- - verting razors into saws. DIAPEN'TE. Syn. PULTIS DIAPENTE. Prep. 1. (Ph. E. 1744.) Bay-beri'ies, birth-wort, ' gentian, ivory dust, and myrrh, equal parts. An excellent warm tonic, especially useful in the debility and rickets of children. The substance sold under this name in the shops is an inferior mixture, used principally as a tonic, in veterinary practice. The following are the forms commonly adopted in its preparation:— 2. Turmeric, 4 lb.; laurel berries and mustard, of each, 3 lb.; gentian, 2 lb. (all in fine powder) ; mix. 3. Bay-berries, gentian, mustard, and tur- meric, equal parts. 4. Gentian, 6 lb.; bay-berries, 1 lb. This is the formula generally used by the farriers. Sometimes mustard, 1 lb., is added. DIAPHORETICS. Syn. SudoeipTcs ; Dia- PHOEETICA, SuDOEiPiCA, L. Medicines which prcmote or increase the perspiration. Those that produce this effect in a very marked i degree are more particularly called ‘stjdo- EIPICS.’ The principal diaphoretics are— warm diluents, as barley-water, gruel, tea, &c. j salts of the alkalies, the citrates of potassa and soda, acetate of potassa, acetate and car- bonate of ammonia, sal ammoniac, nitre, &c.; preparations of antimony, as antimonialpowder, tartar emetic, &c.; also alcohol, camphor, Dover’s powder, ipecacuanha, opium, wine, &c. The use of diaphoretics is indicated in nearly |j all diseases accompanied by fever and a dry skin, and particularly in febrile and pectoral affections. DI'APHRAGM (fram). A partition through or across; a dividing substance. In anatomy, 1' the term is applied to the mideife, a muscle separating the chest or thorax from the ab- domen or lower belly. In astronomy and h optics, the term is applied to a circular ring 1 placed in a telescope or other instrument to ; cut off the marginal portions of a beam of • light. In electricity, the naine is commonly 1 used to denote the porous partition, cell, or , vessel, that separates the fluid containing the positive plate from the fluid which surrounds 1 the negative plate, in a constant voltaic bat- I tery., Thin partitions of sycamore, or other I porous wood, are occasionally used, but cells ) made of thin biscuit ware are the most con- •, venient and durable diaphragms. Plaster of ' Paris, animal membrane, coarse and tightly ■ ' wove canvas, &c., are also used for the purpose. . Plaster cells are formed by surrounding an oiled cylinder of wood with a hoop of paper, h and pouring plaster of Paris, mixed up with f