ESSENCE. 578 tions. See Concenteation, Decoction, In- fusion, Liquoe, Spieit, Tinctuee, &c. Essence of Ac'onite. Syn. Essentia aco- NiTi, L. Prep. From aconite (herb, dried and powdered), 8 oz,; rectified spirit, 16 oz.; ma- cerate for 4 days at a temperature of 68° Fahr., press, and strain; the marc or residuum is again macerated with (a little) spirit, and pressed as before, so that the weight of the mixed tinctures may amount to double that of the herb. Dose. 3 to 6 drops. See Tinctuee. Essence of All'spice. Syn. Essence of pi- mento j Essentia piment.e, L. Prep. From essential oil of pimento or allspice, 1 fi. oz. ; strongest rectified spirit of ivine, 1 pint; agi- tate until perfectly united, and the next day decant the clear portion, if there is any sedi- ment. Used to make pimento water, and by cooks and confectioners as a ‘ flavouring.’ Essence of Al'monds. Syn. Essence of bittee almonds, E. of peach keenels, E. OF EATAFIA, E. OF NOYEAU, QUINTESSENCE OF N., Almond flavoue j Essentia amygdalj5, E. A. amae^, L. Prep. 1. From essential oil of almonds, as the last. 2. (Pereira.) Essential oil of almonds, 1 fl. oz.; rectified spirit, 7 fl. oz. Uses, li(c. It is added to ivine, cordials, per- fumery, pastry, Ac., to impart an agreeable nutty flavour or aroma. It is also employed to prepare cherry-laurel, peach-kernel, and bitter-almond water. A large quantity is con- sumed by the confectioners, and by wine mer- chants to ‘ improve’ their sherries, and to give Cape wine a sherry flavour. It should be used in very small quantities, as it is very powerful, and, in quantity, poisonous. A few drops are sufficient for several pounds of pastry. The first formula is that used in trade. The second is sometimes used by the druggists, and is oc- casionally vended under the name of ‘ con- CENTEATED ESSENCE OF BITTEE ALMONDS,’ &c. The directions for purifying the almond oil from hydrocyanic before dissolving it in the spirit, given in more than one recent book of receipts, are absurd, as in this way the oil loses much of its characteristic odour and flavour, and by keeping gradually becomes nearly destitute of both. See Essential Oil. Essence of Am'bergris. Syn. Essentia am- beje-geise.e, E. a. simplex, Tinctuea a. CONCENTEATA, L. Prep. 1. Ambergris (cut very small), 5 dr.; rectified sjnrit, 1 pint; place them in a strong bottle or tin can, secure the mouth very firmly, and expose it to the j heat of the sun, or in an equally warm situa- j tion, for 1 or 2 months, frequently shaking it ■ during the time; lastly, decant, and filter; through paper. 2. (Guibourt.) Ambergris, 1 dr.; rectified spirit, 3 oz.; digest 10 or 12 days. 3. (Redw'ood.) Ambergris, 2^ dr.; rectified spirit, 1 pint; macerate for 14 days. Chiefly used as an element in other perfumes. The first is the formula employed by the London houses. Essence of Ambergris and Musk. Syn. Con- CENTEATED TINCTUEE OF A. AND M.; E. AMBE^- !. GEISEyE (ODOEATA), E. A. ET MOSCHI, E. EEGIA, L.; Essence eoyale, Fr. Prep. 1. Ambergris ■ (cut small), 5 oz. ; 1 or 2 fresh-emptied musk- pods (or musk, 12 gr.) ; rectified spirit, 1 pint; proceed as in No. 1 {above). | 2. Ambergris, 2^ oz.; bladder musk, ^ oz.; spirit of ambrette (purple sweet sultan), 1 gall.; as last. 3. Ambergris, 2\ oz.; bladder musk, 1 oz. ; \ sjiirit of ambrette, 1 gall.; as before. The fra- grance of the above, especially of the last two, is very powerful, and is much esteemed. 4. Ambergris, ^ oz.; musk and lump sugar, of each, \ oz.; triturate together in a wedge- wood-ware mortar, adding oil of cloves, 20 drops; true balsam of Peru, 30 drops, and enough essence of jasmine or tuberose to con- vert it into ‘A perfectly smooth paste ; then put it into a strong bottle with rectified sjjirit, 1 quart; observing, before adding the whole of the last, to rinse the mortar out w'ell with it, that nothing may be lost; lastly, digest for 6 or 8 weeks, as directed in No. 1 {above). 5. Ambergris, 4 dr.; musk, 1^ dr.; sand, 3 oz.; triturate, then add, of oil of cinnamon, 1 dr.; oil of rhodium, h dr.; essence of roses and eau fieurs d’orange, of each, \ pint; rectified spirit, 1^ pint; digest as before (or not less than 14 days), and decant and filter. The last two are very fine, though inferior to Nos. 2 and 3. 6. To the last (No. 5), add civet, 1 dr.; salt of ! tartar, 3 dr.; and an additional pint of recti- fied spirit. Inferior to the above, but cheaper. j Obs. Essence of ambergris is used as a per- ! fume, and is added in small quantities to I sweet-scented spirits and wines, to improve I their flavour and aroma. A very small quan- tity of any one of them added to lavender \ water, eau de Cologne, tooth-powder, hair- | powder, wash-balls, or a hogshead of claret, communicates a delicious fragrance. See Am- BEEGEis and Essence Eoyale {below). Essence d’Ambrette. [Fr.] Syn. Essence OF MUSK seed, Spieit of m. s. ; Espeit d’am- BEETTE, Fr. Prep. 1. Musk seed (ground in a clean pepper-mill), li lb.; rectified spirit, 3 pints; digest for 3 or 4 weeks in a warm place, and filter. 2. Musk seed, 4 lb. ; rectified spirit, 1 gall.; digest 10 days, add water, 2 quarts, and distil over 1 gall. V’’ery fine. Essence of Ammoni'acum. Syn. Concen- TEATED tinctuee OF AMMONIACUM ; EsSENTIA I AMMONiAci, Tinctuea a. concenteata, L. Prep. 1. Ammoniacum (in tears), 1 lb., is bruised in a very cold marble mortar with half its 'weight of coarse and well-washed siliceous sand or powdered glass, and rectified spirit, ^ pint, gradually added; the trituration is continued until the -u'hole is reduced to a smooth paste, and is then placed in a wide- mouthed bottle, and spirit of wine, 1^ pint, fur- ther added; the whole is then digested toge- ther for a week with constant agitation, and