worv:\r tea—writinCx fluids. 1353 ciNES, Veemieuges, &c. ; and also the several vermifuges under their respective names. WORM TEA. A preparation sold in the shops of the United States, and much used, consisting, according to Brande, of spigelia or pink-root, savine, senna, and manna. WORM'WOOD. Syn. Absinthium (Ph. L. (fc E.), L. The flowering herb of Artemisia i Absinthium, a well-known plant, indigenous to | this country, and largely cultivated for medi- j cinal purposes. It is a bitter tonic and sto-! machic, and also anthelmintic. Dose. 20 to i •10 gr., of the dried herb, either in powder or | made into a tea or infusion; in dyspepsia, dropsy, scurvy, sympathetic epilepsy, &c. See | Absinthine and Absinthic Acid. I WORT. The technical name for the fer-. mentable infusion of malted grain. j The strength of worts is ascertained by means of an instrument termed a saccharometer. (See page 1178.) “ Brewers, distillers, and the ex- cise, sometimes denote by the term flravity’ the excess of weight of 1000 parts of a liquid by volume above the weight of a like volume of dis- tilled water, so that if the specific gravity he 1045, 1070, 1090, &c., the gravity is said to be 4.5, 70, or 90; at others, they thereby denote the weight of saccharine matter in a barrel (36 gall.) of wort; and again, they denote the excess in weight of a barrel of wort over a barrel of water equal to 36 gallons, or 360 lb. This and the first statement are identical, only 1000 is the standard in the flrst case, and 360 in the second.” (Ure.) The last is that commonly adopted by the brewers. According to Dr. Ure, the solid dry extract of malt, or ‘ saccharine* has the speciflc gra- vily 1-264, and the speciflc volume *7911; “ tliat is, 10 lb. of it will occupy the volume of 7‘911 lb. of water. The mean sp. gr., by com- putation of a solution of that extract in its own weight of water, is 1-116; hut by experi- ment, the sp. gr. of that solution is 1-216, showing considerable condensation of volume in the act of combination with water.” The quantity of solid saccharine or sugar in a wort may be determined in the manner mentioned under Syrup. “According to the compilers of the tables accompanying Field’s alcoholometer, 1-8 lb. of saccharine is decomposed for the production of 1[| of proof spirit; hut according to our experiments, the proportion of saccha- rine named is rather below the true equivalent.” (Cooley.) The rapid cooling of worts is an important object with the brewer and distiller. On the large scale, the old system, in which shallow coolers are employed, with all its numerous inconveniences and accidents, is now for the most part abandoned, being supplanted by the method introduced by Mr. Yandall, nearly 40 years ago. This consists in the use of a ‘ ee- feigeeatoe,’ which is an apparatus so con- structed that any hot liquid may be cooled by -about its own volume of cold water, in a very short space of time. The principle is that of passing the two fluids through very shallow and very long passages, in opposite directions, being essentially that of a ‘ Liebig*s condenser* on a gigantic scale. The apparatus may con- sist of zigzag passages, flattened tubes or con- voluted curves, of any convenient shape, so that they possess little capacity in one direc- tion, hut great breadth and length. A refri- gerator, having the passages for the fluids | of an inch thick, is said to require a run of about 80 feet. The success of this method is such as to leave nothing more to desire. See Brewing, Fermentation, Malt, &c. WOUND. Syn. Vulnus, L. A solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, arising from external violence. Wounds are distinguished by surgeons into CONTUSED WOUNDS, INCISED W., LACERATED w., POISONED w., PUNCTURED w., &c.; terms which explain themselves. Sword-cuts are incised wounds; gun-shot wounds, lacerated and contused ones. Slight wounds, and, in- deed, all those not demanding material surgical assistance, after dirt and foreign sub- stances have been removed, may be treated in the manner noticed under Cuts and Abra- sions. WOUND BAL'SAM. See Tincture of Benzoin. WRI'TING, executed in the ordinary tanno- gallic ink, and which has been rendered illegible by age, may be restored by carefully moistening it, by means of a feather, with an infusion of galls, or a solution of ferrocyanide of potassium slightly acidulated with hydrochloric acid, ob- serving to apply the liquid so as to prevent the ink spreading. WRITING FLUIDS. A term commonly applied, of late years, to easy flowing inks, adapted for metallic pens; in contradistinction to the old tanno-gallic compounds at one time exclusively employed for writing. Prep. 1. Dissolve pure basic or soluble Prussian blue lupure distilled water, and dilute the resulting solution with pure water until the desired shade of colour is obtained. Very permanent and beautiful. It is not affected by the addition of alcohol, but is immediately precipitated by saline matter. The precipi- tate, however, still possesses the property of dissolving in pure water. 2. From the soluble ferrocyanide of potas- sium and iron (see page 1145), dissolved in pure water. Resembles the last, but it is pre- cipitated from its solution by alcohol. 3. Powdered Prussian blue, 1 oz.; concen- trated hydrochloric acid, 1^ fl. oz.; mix in a matrass or glass bottle, and, after 24 or 30 hours, dilute the mass with a sufficient quan- tity of water. 4. Dissolve sulphindylate of potassa or am- monia (see page 756) in hot water, and, when cold, decant the clear portion. It is an intense blue, and dries nearly black; is perfectly in- corrosive, and very permanent and easy flowing.