837 LIME-LIMESTONE. Mu"riate ofLime. See Calcium (Chloride). Oil of Lime. See Calcium (Chloride). Ox'alate of Lime. Syn. Calcis oxalas, L. Prep. By adding oxalate of ammonia to any soluble salt of lime in solution, collecting and drying the precipitate. A white powder, in- soluble in acetic acid, easily soluble in nitric acid. A red heat converts it into caebonate OF LIME. See Oxalic Acid. Phos'phates of Lime. There are several distinct compounds of lime and phosphoric acid. They are all insoluble in water, but dissolve readily in dilute acids, even the acetic. They may he grouped under three heads :— 1. Triha'sic Phosphates of Lime. Syn. Oe- THOPHOSPHATES OF CALCIUM (Odling), COM- MON PHOSPHATES OF LIME. Three well-defined salts are included in this group, having respec- tively 3, 2, and 1 equivalents of metallic base, with 0, 1, and 2 equivalents of basic water. Prep. 1. (Teimetallic or basic phos- phate, 3CaO, PO5.)—a. From the correspond- ing basic phosphate of soda and chloride of calcium, both in solution by precipitation. Ge- latinous. b. (PeECIPITATED phosphate OF LIME ; Calcis phosphas pe.ecipitatum—Ph. D.) Done-ash (in powder), 4 oz.; hydrochloric acid, G ft. oz.; diluted Avith water, 1 pint; digest 12 hours, filter, add to the filtrate, water, 1 pint, and precipitate the solution with solu- tion of ammonia, 11 fl. oz., or q. s. to render the liquid slightly alkaline; lastly, collect the precipitate on a calico filter, well wash it, and dry it by exposure to a warm atmosphere. Bose. 10 to 30 gr., twice or thrice a day, either alone or combined with saccharine car- bonate or sesquioxide of iron; in rickets, ulcers, fractures, &c. c. (Impure; BoNE-ASH, B.-eaeth.) From hones calcined in the air until the whole of the carbonaceous matter is destroyed. This ap- pears to be a mixture of the ‘ trimetallic ’ and ‘ bimetallic ’ salts, contaminated Avith a little carbonate and a trace of sulphate of lime. See Boxe-ash. 2. (Bimetallic or neuteal phosphate, 2CaO, HO, PO5.) From the corresponding soda- salt and chloride of calcium, by precipitation. Slightly crystalline. 3. (Monometallic or acid phosphate, CaO, 2HO, PO5 ; SUPEEPHOSPHATE OF LIME, Biphosphate of l. ; Calcis supeephos- PHAS, L.)—a. From the acid phosphate of soda (‘superphosphate’) and chloride of cal- cium, by precipitation. b. From burnt bones (crushed small), 2 parts; oil of vitriol, 1 part; water, 3 parts; mix, and macerate together for some days, fre- quently stirring. Mixed with Avater, dry earth, or sand, it forms an excellent manure. See Bone Bust, Copeolite, &c. 2. Diha'sic Phosphates of Lime. Syn. PrEOPiroSPHATES OF CALCIUM (Odling), Pyeophosphates of lime. These salts are unimportant. They may be prepared by neutralizing pyrophosphoric acid with lime, or by addmg chloride of calcium to the pyrophos- phates of soda. 3. Monoba'sic Phosphates of Lime. Syn. Metaphosphates of calcium (Odling), Metaphosphate of lime. This salt may be prepared by igniting the acid phosphate of lime (1, 3, above), so as to expel the 2 equi- valents of basic Avater. It is an unimportant compound. Sul'phate of Lime. Syn. Calcis sulphas, L. The hydrated sulphate of lime occurs native as GYPSUM and selenite, and when baked or deprived of water by roasting forms the sub- stance popularly known as plastee of Paeis. Its applications in this form are well known. Prep. By mixing a moderately concentrated solution of chloride of calcium AAuth sulphuric acid, collecting and drying the precipitate. Prop., S^c. Sulphate of lime is soluble in about 500 parts of water, and in a much less quantity of w'ater holding chloride of sodium, sal ammoniac, or nitre in solution. The solu- tion, in all cases, is precipitated by alcohol. It is this substance which imparts '■permanent hardness ’ to spring and river water. LIME. The fruit of Citrus limetta. It re- sembles the lemon, but is smaller and has a smoother skin. It is imported into Great Britain in a preserved state for use as a dessert. Its juice is also largely imported for the pre- paration of ciTEic acid, and for the preven- tion of scurvy on board ship (see below). LIME JUICE. Syn. Lemon juice. The juice of the fruits of A’^arious species of Citrus, principally LIMES, is knoAvn in commerce un- der these names. It is very variable as to quality, which depends upon the method of extraction, the quality of the fruit, and the honesty of the shipper. “ The best kind in the English market for the use of calico printers is a dark, treacly-looking fluid, marking from 48° to 54° Twaddell, and containing from 30 to 36g of pure citric acid.” (O’Neill.) Estim. Lime juice is only valuable on ac- count of the citric acid it contains. If of good quality, 100 gr. Avill neutralize from 70 to 76 gr. of pure crystallized carbonate of soda. " For commercial purposes, each grain of car- bonate of soda neutralized may represent a half grain of crystallized citric acid (equal to '38 gr. of dry acid), and the A^alue of the lime juice be calculated in proportion.” (O’Neill.) As commercial lime juice contains variable pro- portions of A^egetable extractive matter, the in- dications of the hydrometer cannot be depend- ed upon. See Acidimetet, Citeic Acid, &c. LIME'STONE. A general term applied to a great variety of rocks in which lime is the principal constituent. Estim. The value of chalk, limestone, MAEBLE, &c., for hydraulic mortars and ce- ments, may be determined as follows :— 1. A given weight (say 100 gr.) of the sample is reduced to poAvder and digested in hydrochloric acid diluted Avith about an equal