CYANIDE—CYANURiC ACID. jlny of Its salts are decomposed by an acid; it forms salts with the bases, called cyanates; when in contact with water, it suffers decom- position in a few hours, and is converted into bicarbonate of ammonia; it cannot be pre- served for any time, as shortly after its pre- paration it spontaneously passes into a white, opaque, solid mass, to which the name CY- AMELIDE has been given. By distillation, this new substance is reconverted into crjanic acid. \ CY'ANIDE. Stjn. Cyan'tjeet; Cyan'idum, j Cyantjee'tum, L. The compound formed by j the union of cyanogen with a metal. See Cyanogen, Hydeocyanic Acid, and the re- spective bases. Al'kaline Cyanide. Syn. Ceude cyanide OF POTASSIUM AND SODIUM. Prep. (R. Wag- I ner.) Dry ferrocyanide of potassium, 4 parts, dry carbonate of soda, 1 part, are melted to- gether in an iron crucible at a red heat, and continually stirred until the iron rod comes out covered with a white crust, when the heat is withdrawn, and after a few moments^ repose the supernatant liquid portion is poured I out on a clean iron slab. This crude mixed cyanide is quite as useful as the more expen- sive one of Liebig, and is equally fit for tech- nical applications, as electrotyping, gilding, silvering, &c. See Cyanide of Potassium. CYANTLINE. Syn. Cy'anide of an'iline. A crystalline compound formed by the action of cyanogen on aniline. CY'ANINE. A base discovered by Mr. G. Williams in chinoline blue. See below. 1 I'odide of Cyanine. Syn. Chin'oline blue. The action of iodide of amyl upon chinoline gives rise to iodide of amylchinoline. Addition of excess of soda to an aqueous solution of this a iodide produces a black resino\ts precipitate, * which dissolves in alcohol with a magnificent blue colour. This precipitate is the iodide of cyanine, or CHINOLINE BLUE. Many attempts have been made to use it in dyeing; they have, however, failed on account of the instability of the colour. CYAN'OGEN. Syn. PEu"ssiNE,f Bicae- BUEET of NITEOGENjf BiCAEBIDE OF N. ; Cyanogen'ium, L. a highly important quasi- elementary body, discovered by M. Gay- Lussac, in 1815. It is composed of caebon and NITEOGEN, in the proportion of 2 equiv. of the former to 1 equiv. of the latter. Prep. From cyanide of mercury (carefully dried), exposed in a small retort to the heat of a spirit-lamp, and the gas collected in the [ mercurial pneumatic trough. I Prop., Sfc. A colourless gas, possessing a pungent and peculiar odour, resembling that I of peach-kernels or prussic acid; under a ; pressure of about 4 atmospheres, at a tem- I perature of 45°, it assumes the liquid form I (Faraday), and this fluid again becomes [ gaseous on withdraw-al of the pressure; water I absorbs nearly 5 times its bulk of cyanogen at I 60° Fahr., and alcohol about 23 times its 497 volume; with hydrogen it forms hydeo- cyanic ACID, and with the metals a most interesting and important class of bodies called CYANIDES or cyanueets ; when kindled, it burns with a beautiful purple flame, car- bonic acid and nitrogen being evolved. Sp. gr. 1-806. See Hydeocyanic Acid, &c. Bro'mide of Cyanogen. By distilling bro- mine with cyanide of mercury. Colourless; volatile; solid; powerfully odorous. Chlo"ride of Cyanogen. Prep. 1. (Ga"- SEOUS CHLOEIDE OF CYANOGEN.) By passing chlorine over moist cyanide of mercury, in the dark. It possesses an insupportable pungency, and is soluble in alcohol, ether, and water. 2. (Solid chloeide of cyanogen.) By placing anhydrous hydrocyanic acid in a vessel of chlorine, and exposing the whole in the sunshine. Colourless needles; volatile; odour powerful and offensive, somewhat resembling that of mice or conia; dissolves in alcohol and ether; melts at 284° Fahr.; and sublimes unchanged at a higher temperature. Obs. The above are isomeric, and corre- spond to cyanic and cyanuric acid. I'odide of Cyanogen. From iodine and cyanide of mercury. Its preparation and properties resemble those of bromide of cy- anogen. CYANU"EIC ACID. Syn. Pyeo-u"eic ACiD.f A peculiar acid, discovered by Scheele. It is a product of the decomposition of the soluble cyanates by dilute acids, or of urea by heat, &c. Prep. 1. Urea (pure and dry) is heated until it fuses, and is converted into a white or grayish-white mass; this is dissolved in strong oil of vitriol, and nitric acid added drop by drop to the solution until it becomes nearly colourless; the liquid is then mixed wdth an equal volume of water. As the liquid cools, crystals of cyanueic acid are deposited, which are washed with a little cold water, and then dissolved in 24 parts of boiling water, when crystals of pure hydrated cyanuric acid form on cooling. 2. Melam is dissolved by a gentle heat in concentrated sulphuric acid, the solution mixed with 20 to 30 parts of water, and the whole maintained at a temj)erature approaching the boiling point, until a specimen of the liquid, on being tried by liquor of ammonia, no longer gives a white precipitate: several days are required. The liquid concentrated by eva- poration deposits crystals of the acid on cooling. Prop., Sj’c. Cyanuric acid is isomeric with cyanic acid ; it fonns small, colourless, efflo- rescent crystals, scarcely soluble in cold water, soluble in hot oil of vitriol and in nitric acid without decomposition; from the last it crys- tallizes in tlie anhydrous state; by exposure to the atmosphere, or a gentle heat, they lose ■ their water and fall into powder. It forms salts with the bases, called cyanueates. The ALKALINE CYANUEATES may be formed by 32