1011 OPIUM. MYRNA; in irregular, rounded, flattened ieces, varying in weight from 2 or 3/5. to nly as many oz. It forms the best variety of urkey opium, and is particularly rich in mor- ihine. It is the only one adapted for the lanuflicture of the salts of morphine^ as it Uitains on the average from 7 to 9g of that kaloid, and usually yields about 12 to 12’5g ’ hydrochlorate of morphine, which is more lan can be obtained from any other variety • opium.—9. Turkey ; of which two varie- es are known in commerce, viz., Constan- nople opium and Levant or Smyrna opium, joticed above. Constantinople opium is gene • jilly in small, flattened, roundish cakes, 2 to inches in diameter, and covered with poppy |aves. It is more mucilaginous and less es- ';emed than Smyrna opium, from which it ' ay he distinguished by this last being always )vered with the reddish capsules of a species ■ Rumex. Pur. The opium of commerce is not unfre- lently adulterated with extract of poppies, Hract of lettuce, lactucarium, mucilage of gum •agacanth, dried leaves, starch, water, clay, •nd, gravel, and other substances, in order to crease its weight. This fraud is readily de- leted by inspection, by chemical analysis, id the microscope; and indirectly, with the :-eatest certainty, by a simple assay of the mple for its morphine (moephiometry). his may he effected by one or other of the flowing methods:— 1. (Couerbe.) Opium, 4 parts, and quick- ie, 1 part, made into a milk with water, 8., are boiled together, and the solution |:tered whilst hot; dilute hydrochloric acid is :ien added, to saturation, and the morphine recipitated by the addition of liquor of am- onia, any excess of the latter being expelled / heat; the precipitate is then collected, fled, and weighed.' If 100 gr. have been lerated on, the given weight will represent le per-centage richness of the sample in mor- line (nearly). 2. (Guilliermond.) 100 gr. of opium are tri- (rated for some time in a mortar along with times its weight of rectified spirit, and the ncture strained through linen, with expres- on, into a wide-mouthed bottle; the marc is iturated a second time with about 3 times! s weight of alcohol, and the tincture strained (to the bottle as before; to the mixed tinc- ires is added a fl. dr. of liquor of ammonia, id the whole is agitated for a short time. In )out 12 hours the morphine spontaneously 'parates, accompanied with some naecotine ad MECONATE OF AMMONIA; the morphia ivering the interior of the vessel with large, )loured, and gritty crystals, feeling like sand, nd the narcotine crystallizing in very light, nail, white, and pearly needles. These crys- ds are washed with water, either through a aper filter or linen, to free them from the leconate of ammonia which they contain; fter which the narcotine is separated from the morphine by decantation in water, which removes the narcotine, which is the lighter of the two. According to M. Mialhe, however, the morphine is more effectually removed by washing the crystals with 1 to 1^ fl. dr. of ether, % triturating the two together, when the morphia is left in an insoluble state, and may then he dried and weighed. 3. (Ph. E.) Macerate 100 gr. of opium for 24 hours in 2 fl. oz, of water, filter, and strongly squeeze the residue; then precipitate the infusion with carbonate of soda, ^ oz., dis- solved in cold water, 2 fl. oz.; gently heat the precipitate until it shrinks and fuses, then cool and weigh it. It should weigh at least 10 gr,, and, when powdered, be entirely so- luble in a solution of oxalic acid. Tests. These depend chiefly on the chemical and physical characters of morphine and me- conic acid, the tests for which have been already noticed. In operating upon the con- tents of the stomach, or upon solid organs, in cases of suspected poisoning, the best method of proceeding is that alrea(iy described under Alkaloid. Another method is to boil the substances in water slightly acidulated with acetic acid, next to evaporate the solution to the consist- ence of a thick syrup, and then to treat it twice with boiling rectified spirit; the tincture thus obtained is to he filtered when cold, and again evaporated to the consistence of syrup; it is now re-dissolved in distilled water, the fil- trate treated with solution of diacetate of lead, and the precipitate of meconate of lead, separated by filtration, and carefully preserved. A current of sulphuretted hydrogen is then passed through the solution, to precipitate ex- cess of lead, and after again filtering it the liquid is evaporated, at first in a water bath, and afterwards under the receiver of an air- pump. The shapeless mass of crystals thus obtained present all the characters of mor- phine, if the substance examined contained opium. In the mean time the precipitate of meconate of lead is to he boiled with water acidulated with sulphuric acid, and the inso- luble sulphate of lead separated by filtration; the filtered liquid, by evaporation, furnishes MECONic ACID, either under the form of crys- ! tals or an amorphous powder, the solution of which precipitates the sesquisalts of iron of a deep hlood-red. The following are additional tests to those already noticed:— 1. From the peculiar odour of opium, often perceptible when the drug has been taken only in very small quantities. 2. A solution containing crude opium is turned of a deep red colour, or, if coloured, it is turned of a reddish-brown, and is darkened, by tincture of sesquichloride of iron. 3. (Hare.) A portion of the suspected liquid is poured into a heakerglass, and a few drops of solution of acetate of lead are added to it; the whole is stirred frequently for 10 or 12