517 DEXTRO-RACEMIC ACID—DIALYSIS. sio7i of malt, at about 160° Eahr., on starch. It is also foi'inecl when potato starch and some of the other farinas are exposed to a heat of about 400°. See Diastase and Gum (British). DEX'TRO-RACE'MIC ACID. See Racemic Acid. DIABETES. See Ueine. DIACH'YLON. See Plastees. DIALU'RIC ACID. A crystalline acid, ob- tained by passing a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen, through a boiling solution of allox- antine. Dialurate of ammonia forms colourless, silky, needle-like crystals, which become deej) red when heated to 212° Fahr. DIALY"SER. In practical chemistry, an instrument for separating ‘ crystalloids ^ from ‘ colloids,’ introduced by Mr. Graham, the Master of the Mint. In its most convenient form it consists of a hoop of gutta percha, over which a circular piece oiparchment-paper is stretched. The paper is applied to the hoop while wet, and is kept stretched by a I second hoop, by an elastic band, or by a few I turns of string. The instrument, when com- j plete, resembles an ordinary tambourine. It is distinguished as the ‘ HOOP dialysee.’ The fluid to be ‘ dialysed ’ is poured into the hoop I upon the surface of the parchment-paper, to a small depth only, such as half an inch, and the dialyser is then floated upon water in a ■ large glass basin. Another form of dialyser, I termed the ‘bulb dialysee,' consists of a j small glass bell-jar, the mouth of which is ! covered by a piece of parchment-paper. This is suspended or otherwise supported in a large : vessel of water in such a manner that the I parchment-paper septum just dips below the ! surface. See Dialysis {below), Paechment- ' PAPEE. DIAL'YSIS. In practical chemistry, the n method of separating substances by ‘ dilFusion ’ I through a septum of gelatinous matter. When i a solution having a sp. gr. greater is introduced ; into a cylindrical glass vessel, and then water ' very cautiously poured upon it, in such a ' manner that the two layers of liquid remain unmoved, the substance dissolved in the lower j liquid will gradually pass into the supernatant ■ Avater, though the vessel may have been left undisturbed, and the temperature remain un- i changed. The gradual passage of a dissolved j substance from its original solution into pure ( Avater taking place, notwithstanding the higher sp. gr. of the substance which opposes this passage, is called the ‘diffusion of liquids.’ I From the investigation of the phenomena of this diffusion, the Master of the Mint, Mr. T. 1 Graham, has derived the remarkable results ' upon which the method under notice is based. 1 Different substances, when in solution of the I same concentration, and under other similar cir- cumstances, diffuse with very unequal velocity. ; “The range in the degree of diffusive mobility,” , says Mr. Graham, “exhibited by different I substances, appears to be as wide as the scale ; of vapour-tensions. Thus, hydrate of potassa may be said to possess double the velocity of diffusion of sulphate of potassa, and sulphate of potassa again double the velocity of sugar, alcohol, and sulphate of magnesia. But the substances named belong, as regards diffusion, to the more ‘volatile’ class. The compara- tively ‘fixed’ class, as regards diffusion, is re- presented by a different order of chemical substances (marked out by the absence of the power to crystallize), which are slow in the extreme. Among the latter are hydrated silicic acid, hydrated alumina, and other me- tallic peroxides of the aluminous class, when they exist in the soluble form; Avith starch, dextrine, and the gums, caramel, tannin, albu- men, gelatine, vegetable and animal extractive matters. Low diffusibility is not the only property which the bodies last enumerated possess in common. They are distinguished by the gelatinous character of their hydrates. Although often largely soluble in water, they are held in solution by a most feeble force. They appear singularly inert in the capacity of acids and bases, and in all the ordinary chemical relations. But, on' the other hand, their peculiar physical aggregation, with the chemical indifference referred to, appears to be required in substances that can intervene in the organic processes of life. The plastic elements of the body are found in this class. As gelatine appears to be its type, it is proposed to designate substances of the class as ‘ COl'- LOIDS,’ and to speak of their pecAiliar form as the ‘ colloidal condition of matter.’ Opposed to the colloidal is the ‘ ci’ystalline condition.* Substances affecting the latter form will be classed as ‘ceystal'loids.’ The distinction is, no doubt, one of intimate molecular con- stitution.”^ A certain property of colloidal substances comes into play most opportunely in assisting diffusive separations. The jelly of starch, that of animal mucus, of pectine, of vegetable gelose, and other solid colloidal hydrates, all of which, strictly speaking, are insoluble in cold water, are themselves per- meable when in mass, as Avater is, by the more highly diffusive class of substances. But such jellies greatly resist the passage of the less diffusible substances, and cut off entirely other colloid substances like themselves that may be in solution. A mere film of the jelly has the separating effect. Noav, ‘ parchment- paper,’ when Avetted, acts just like a layer of animal mucus or other hydrated colloid, by permitting the passage of crystalloids, but not of colloids, consequently this substance may be used for dialytic septa (see Dialysee, above). The folloAving experiments recorded by Graham Avill give some idea of the results Avhich may be obtained by Dialysis:— 1. Half a litre of urine was placed in a ‘ hoop dialyser,’ which Avas then floated on a considerable quantity of 2)ure water. Dialysed for 24 hours, the urine gave its crystalloidal constituents to the external Avater. The latter, 1 “Philosopliical Transactions" forlSCl.