940 NITRIC ACID. has usually the sp. gr. 1'36 ; and the ‘ sixaLE AQUAFOETIS’ (aQUAFOETIS SIMPLEX), the Sp. g-r. 1-22; but both are commonly sold at much lower strengths. I'ests.—1. It stains the skin yellow. — 2. When mixed with a little hydrochloric acid or sal ammoniac, it acquires the power of dissolv- ing gold leaf.—3. Morphia, brucia, and strych- nia, give it a red colour, which is heightened by ammonia in excess.—4. When placed in a tube, and a solution of protosulphate of iron is cautiously added, a dark co lour is developed at the line of junction, which is distinctly vi- sible when only nitric acid is present. (Derbani’us de Richemont.) This test may be often conveniently modified by dropping into the liquid a minute crystal of protosulphate of iron; the fluid immediately surrounding this crystal then acquires a dark brown colour, which disappears upon simple agitation of the fluid, or by heating it.—5. "When mixed with a v/eak solution of sulphate of indigo, and heated, the colour is destroyed.— 6. When saturated with carbonate of po- tassa or soda, and evaporated to dryness, the residuum deflagrates when thrown on burning coals.—7. When the mixture of a nitrate with cyanide of potassium, in powder, is heated on a piece of platinum, a vivid deflagration fol- lows, attended with distinct ignition and de- tonation. (Fresenius.)' The nitrates may all be tested as above by first adding a small quantity of pure sulphuric .acid, which will liberate the nitric acid of the j salt. Estim. The strength of nitric acid may be roughly estimated by its sp. gr.; but more accurately by ascertaining the amount of car- bonate of soda, or other salt of known com- j position, which is required to neutralize it. j To render the assay trustworthy, it must be in all cases, also tested to detect the presence of impurities. See Acidimetey. Ant., See Acids. Uses. Nitric acid is employed in assaying, in dyeing, in etching on copper, in the preparation of GYN-COTTON, OXALIC and selphueic acids, &c. In medicine, it is used as a caustic to corns and warts; and in doses of 1 to 10 drops, in a tumbler of water, in liver complaints, fevers, dyspepsia, syphilis, to remove the effects of mercury, or as a substitute for that drug, &c. Externally, it is employed in the form of baths, lotions, and ointment. Dr. Collier de- clares a strong lotion of nitric acid to be almost specific in lepra, and several other kindred skin diseases. Concluding remarks.—The common source of nitric acid is nitrate of potassa, but it may also be obtained from other nitrates by a similar process. Nitrate of soda is frequently used instead of nitrate of potash, and is more convenient in some respects, as the residuum is more easily dissolved out of the retort or cylinder. The residuum of the common pro- cess with nitre (‘SAL exixum’) is chiefly em- ployed as a flux by the glass-houses, and as a source of potash in the maftifacture of almn. On the small scale, the first of the above for- mulae will be found convenient for obtaining a pure acid. A powerful argand lamp, or a charcoal chauffer, with the little apparatus figured at page 737, will be found to answer well. When a common retort and receiver are employed, no luting of any kind must ho used. Ry proper management, nitre yields more than § of its weight of pure n itric acid, sp. gr. 1*500; and nitrate of soda, its own weight of acid, sp. gr. 1*4. By the patent process of M. Mallet, dried nitrate of soda is decomposed by dried or monyhydrated boracic acid, by heating tlic two together. The products are liquid nitric acid, which distils over, and biborate of soda (boeax), wdiich remains in the retort. The crude coloured nitric acid of commerce (aqeafoetis) was originally prepared by dis- tilling a mixture of nitre and copperas, and is still sometimes obtained in this way. The nitric acid of commerce may be freed from the impurities alluded to above by one or other of the followdng methods:— ]. By the addition of a little nitrate of silver, as long as it produces any cloudiness, and, after rex>ose, decanting the clear acid, and rectifying it at a heat under 212°. To ensure a perfectly colourless product, a small portion of pure black oxide of manganese should be put into the retort. (Murray.) 2. By agitating the acid with a little red oxide of lead, and then rectifying it, as before. 3. By adding Ig of bichromate of 2)otassa to the acid before rectifying it. This answers w'cll for acid not stronger than sp. gr. 1*48. 4. By rectification at a gentle heat, rejecting the first portion that comes over, receiving the middle portion as genuine acid, and leaving a residuum in the retort, (lire.) According to Apjohn and others, the strongest liquid nitric acid, sp. sp. 1*520, is a tnono- hydrate; that of the sp. gr. 1*500, a sesquu hydrate; that of 1*486, a binhydrate; and that of 1*244, a quadrihydrate; or containing respectively, 1, 1^, 2, and 4 atoms of w*ater. (See below.) Anhy'drous Nitric Acid. Syn. Niteic ax- HYDEIDE. This interesting substance was first obtained in a separate form by M. Deville, in 1849. Prep. (M. Deville.) Nitrate of silver is dried by exposure to a current of dry carbonic acid at a temperature of 356° Fahr., and the tube containing it is then immersed in a water bath heated to 203° Fahr.; pure dry chlorine gas is next passed through the apparatus, and, as soon as the reaction commences, the tem- perature is reduced to 154° or even 136°, but not low^er; the production of crystals in the receiver, which must be cooled by a powerful freezing mixture, soon commences; lastly, the