1205 SOAP. I Macotjba snuff is imitated by moistening jhe tobacco with a mixture of treacle and water, nd allowing it to ferment well. ' Spanish snuff is made from unsifted Jtiavannah snuff* reduced by adding ground 'vanish nutshells, sprinkling the mixture with '•eacle water, and allowing it to sweat for |)me days before packing. ' Yellow snuff is prepared from ordinary ale snuff moistened with a mixture of yellow diffused in water, to which a few spoon- lils of thin mucilage has been added; when Iry, the colour that does not adhere to the luff is separated with a fine sieve. ; Red Snuff. As last, but using red ochre. i Asarabac'ca Snuff. Syn. Cephalic snuff, loMPOUND POWDEE OF ASAEABACCA ; PULYIS |3AEI COMPOSITUS, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. D. 326.) Asarabacca leaves, 1 oz.; lavender mers, 1 dr.; (both dried;) mix and powder lem. 2. (Ph. E. 1817.) Asarabacca leaves, 3 dr.; aves of marjoram and flowers of lavender, of ich, 1 dr.; as before. Both are used as •rhines in headaches and ophthalmia. See EPHALic Snuff, Asaeabacca, &c. { Cephal'ic Snuff. Prep. 1. From asarabacca 'aves and Lundyfoot snuff, of each, 2 oz.; \vender flowers, i oz.; essence of bergamotte id oil of cloves, of each, 2 or 3 drops; mixed lid ground to a powder, the perfume being ided last. 12. (Boeli’s.) From tobacco or pure snuff id valerian root, of each, ^ oz.; reduced to iwder, and scented with the oils of lavender I ad marjoram, of each, 5 or 6 drops. ! Obs. The first formula is an excellent one ; jad the product is very useful in nervous [sadaches, dimness of sight, &c. See Asaea- ACCA Snuff (above). Eye Snuff. Prep. From finely levigated Vibasic sulphate of mercury (‘ Turpeth mine- 111’), i dr.; pure dry Scotch or Lundyfoot \iuff, 1 oz.; triturate them well together. A jinch of this, occasionally, has been recom- iiended in infiammation of the eyes, dim- ess ,of sight, headache, polypus, &c.; but should be used with caution, and not too ften. SOAP. Syn. Sapo, L. ; Savon, Fr. Spa- ISH, Castile, or haed soap, made with olive 1 and soda (sapo, sapo ex oliv.® oleo et )DA CONFSCTUS—Ph. L.; SAPO DUEUS— h. E. & F.), and soft soap, made with olive 11 and potash (sapo mollis—Ph. L. & E., jlPO EX OLIV^ oleo et potassa confectus i-Ph. L.), are the only kinds directed to be ^nployed in medicine. The former is intended henever soap' is ordered, and is the one ' liich is principally employed internally; the tier is used in ointments, &c., and in some of ae officinal pills. Prep. The fatty or oleaginous matter is ailed with a weak alkaline lye (soap-lye) ren- tred caustic by quicklime, and portions of ronger lye are added from time to time, the ebullition being still continued, until these substances, reacting on each other, combine to form a tenacious compound, which begins to separate from the water; to promote this separation and the granulation of the newly formed soap, some common salt is generally added, and the fire being withdrawn, the con- tents of the boiler are allowed to repose for some hours, in order that the soap may collect into one stratum, and solidify; when this happens it is put into wooden frames or moulds, and when it has become stiff enough to be handled it is cut into bars or pieces, and ex- posed to the air, in a warm situation, to further harden and to dry. Var. The principal varieties of soap found in commerce are :— Almond Soap (sapo amtgdalinus), made from almond oil and caustic soda, and chiefly used for the toilet. Castile Soap, Spanish s., Maeseilles s. ; Sapo Castiliensis, Sapo Hispanicus. An olive-oil soda soap, kept both in the white and marbled state. The former is said to be the purest; the latter, the strongest. Cued Soap, made with tallow (chiefly) and soda. Medicated Soaps, containing various active ingredients. The chief of these are noticed below. Mottled Soap, made with refuse kitchen- stuff, &c. Soft Soap (of commerce), made with whale, seal, or cod oil, tallow, and caustic potash. Toilet Soaps, prepared from any of the preceding varieties, and variously coloured and scented. Formulae are given below. Yellow Soap, Resin Soap, made with tallow, resin, and caustic soda. Soluble glass is now largely employed in place of resin. Soaps are also divided into soft or potash SOAPS and haed or soda soaps. Assay. 1. For the watee. A piece, fairly taken from the sample, and weighing 100 gr., is reduced to thin shavings, which are dried by the heat of boiling water until they cease to lose weight. The loss indicates the pro- portion of FEEE WATEE. This should not exceed 35g for ordinary curd and mottled soap, 45g for yellow soap, and about 15 to 16{) for Castile soap. 2. For the alkali. 100 gr. of the soap are dissolved in 4 or 5 fl. oz. of boiling water, and the solution tested by the common method of alkalimetry. Curd and yellow soap usually contain from 6 to 7g, mottled soap from 7 to 8g, and Castile soap 8 to 9§ of soda. 3. For the oil or fat. The solution tested for alkali (see No. 2) is heated, and then allowed to cool slowly ; when cold, the floating fatty matter is removed, freed from water, and weighed. When the fat or oil bas little con- sistence, 100 gr. of pure white wax is added to the soap solution, before heating it. The weight obtained, in grains in the one case, and