BEER. 293 granted to a brewer at Greenwich, to export 50 tons of that called or “iere 'V the distinction between the two apparently being, that the latter was flavoured with wormwood or other bitters; whereas ale was not. Ale was originally made from harley-malt and yeast alone, and those who put in anything else, w-ere held to sophisticate the liquor. Ale is the natural drink of an Englishman; but beer, on the other hand, which is made of malt, hops, and water, is the natural drink of a Dutchman, and of late is much used in Eng- land, to the great detriment of many English- men.”^ Hops were introduced A.D. 1524; and to this date, modern^ or hopp’d beer, may be traced. “Turkies, carp, lioppcs, picarell, and beere, I “Came into Englande all in one yeai'.”* By statute of James I. the “ale” called “ here ” was taxed, and “ one quart of the best thereof,” ordered to be sold for a penny (a.d. 1610). Alehouses were first licensed in ;1621, and during the reign of Charles II., were, together with all malt-liquor, placed under the control of the Excise (a.d. 1660). By the Statutes 1 & 4 Will. IV. (1834), pre- vious enactments respecting malt liquors and their sale, w'ere reduced to their present form. Beer is now the common beverage in all European countries where the vine is not a subject of rustic husbandry. Qual. Pure malt-liquor which has under- gone sufficient fermentation, is perhaps, when taken in moderation, one of the most whole- some beverages that can be drunk. Ale is the most nutritious variety, and, wdien moderately mature, is the one best adapted to the debilitated and delicate; but good POETEE, owing to being less rich in ex- tractive and gummy matter, and from being slightly astringent from ‘ high-dried ^ or pscorched ’ malt being used in its preparation, Isccasionally agrees better with bilious consti- ;utions and the dyspeptic. Much, however, lepends on acquired taste and habit. The nost wholesome, and perhaps the least excep- nonable beverages obtained from malt, are ;hose known as East-India, Scotch, and Bava- ian ales, when honestly prepared and not lighly ‘ bittered ’ with the hop, as is, unfor- unately, now so general. When the latter ‘s the case, their habitual or excessive use :annot fail to produce injury, and to impair md ultimately ruin the health of their con- lumers, even though they have the stomach of i ploughman or an alderman. A late wu’iter las described good beer as nutritious, from j he sugar and mucilage which it contains; ex- \ilarating,fron\ its spirit; and strengthening ind narcotic, from its hops. “ Beer is a hirst-quenching, refreshing, intoxicating, and lightly nutritious beverage.”'* Its effects, vhen taken injudiciously, or in excess, for the' I Andi’ew Boorde. ® Baker’s “ Cliron.” > Pereiia. most part resemble those of other intoxicating liquors—disease, misery, and crime; and these in direct proportion as it deviates from the true standard of purity and excellence. Var. The numerous varieties of malt liquor met with in commerce, may be resolved into three great classes—ale, beer, porter :—Ale, as the term is generally understood, is a pale liquor, brewed from lightly-dried malt, and abounding more or less in undecomposed sac- charine matter and mucilag?, and the bitter and fi’agrant principles of the hop; character- istics wdiich, however, it more or less loses by maturation and age :—beer is a fine, strong, well-fermented liquor, darker, less saccharine, and more alcoholic than ordinary ale:—Poeter is a dark brown-coloured liquor, originally brewed from ‘ high-dried malt,^ but now generally made from pale malt, with a sufficient quantity of ‘patent’ or ‘roasted malt’ to impart the necessary colour and flavour. Stout, Beown Stout, &c., are mere varieties of porter differing from that liquor only in their superior strength and quality :—East-India ALE, BITTER-ALE, &c., of the great brewers, are beverages which combine the pale colour and fragrant bitter of ale (the latter usually in undue excess), with the* dryness’and maturity of beer: —Table-ale or table-beee, is a weak liquor commonly containing 3 or 4 times the proportion of water usually present in ordinary beer or ale. In London, joor/er is called beee; and, indeed, in all parts of the kingdom, the prevailing bever- age of this kind consumed by the masses, of what- ever class, commonly goes by the name of beer. The three great classes of malt-liquor above referred to, are, independently of mere differ- ences of strength, excellence, and commercial value, practically sub-divided into an almost infinite number of varieties. Every county, eveiy toum, and almost every brewer, is dis- tinguished by the production of a different- flavoured beer, readily perceived, and highly- appreciated by their respective votaries. These differences may be traced to—variations in the quantity and quality of the materials employed in their manufacture—the temperature of the water used for mashing—the duration of the boiling—the tempterature at which W\& fermen- tation is conducted, and the extent to which it is carried, together with numerous other cir- cumstances, which though usually of an acci- dental and uncertain character, are neverthe- less sufficient to affect the flavour and quality of a brewing. Among these, those depending on the condition of the building, the locality, the apparatus, the water, mismanagement, &c., are not the least important. In general, how- ever, when the same quantity and quality of materials are employed, and the same time allowed for the maturation of the liquor, the chief causes of this diversity will be found to depend on the water used in the ‘ brewing,’ and the method followed in the preparation of the malt. Thus, Bavarian, Scotch, and Burton- ales, differ in style from other ales chiefly