759 INFLAMMATORY FEVER—INFUSION. I causes are incautious exposure to cold, the use of improper food, and the presence of acrid substances or hardened faeces in the bowels. The more constant symptoms are pain over the abdomen, thirst, heat, and excessive restless- ness and anxiety; sickness, obstinate constipa- tion, and a hard, small, quick pulse. In the t later stages the pain and tenderness of the ah- I domen, especially around the navel, become ; excessive, and there is difficult micturition, i In some cases the pain suddenly ceases, the ) belly becomes tumid, the pulse scarcely per- ■ ceptible, the countenance ghastly, and the I patient dies in a few hours. The treatment t consists in very copious bleeding, leeches to i the abdomen, hot bath and fomentations, aperient clysters, and mercurial purges; with ^ effervescing draughts and opium to allay sick- I ness, followed by diaphoretic salines and I gentle aperients. See Stomach, &c. ; INFLAM'MATORY FE'VER. See Fevee : and Inflammation. INFLUEN'ZA. See Cataeeh. INFU'SION. Syn. Infusum, Infhsio, L. A liquid medicine, prejiared by macerating I vegetable or animal substances in w^ater, at i any temperature below that of ebullition. I The mode of preparing infusions is, with I most substances, precisely similar to that pm’sued for making the almost universal beverage—tea. The ingredients are com- monly placed in a stoneware pot or vessel (an ^infusion poV), previously made hot; boiling water is then poured over them, and the cover 1 being placed on, the whole is allowed to digest together, at first, for a short time, in a warm situation, as on the hob or the fender, and afterwards (the vessel being removed from the I heat) until the w'hole becomes cold. The i liquid is then poured from the ingredients, and 1 the latter, being slightly pressed, if necessary, the infusion is strained through a piece of clean linen or a hair sieve for use. During the digestion the ingredients should he occa- sionally stirred, an important matter often neglected, and not even referred to by most pharmaceutical writers. The substances employed for making infu- sions receive the same preliminary treatment as those intended for making decoctions. Shavings, leaves, and flowers, require no pre- vious preparation beyond being pulled asun- der; hut roots, woods, and other solid sub- stances, must he bruised or sliced, if in the green or recent state, or bruised or coarsely pulverized, if dry, for the purpose of exposing as large a surface as possible to the action of the menstruum. The substances extracted by w'ater from vegetables by infusion are chiefly gum, mucus, extractive, tannin, certain vegetable acids, the hitter and narcotic principles, gum-resin, es- sential oil, and alkaloids. Some of these sub- ! stances are only sparingly soluble in w'ater at ordinary temperatures; hut more readily so in hot water, and freely soluble in boiling water. The temperature of the water should he there- fore proportioned to the nature of the vege- table matter operated on. For mere ‘ demul- cent infusions,’ in which starch and gum are the chief substances sought to be dissolved out, and when the active principle is scarcely soluble in water, unless at nearly the boiling temperature, boiling water alone should be em- ployed; but when the medicinal virtues of vegetables are soluble in water at lower tem- peratures, it is better to employ hot water (165° to 175° Fahr.), and to allow a little longer period for the digestion. In many cases temperate water (from 60° to 70° Fahr.), or tepid water (from 80° to 90° Fahr.), may be used with advantage, especially in the prepa- ration of ^aromatic hitter infusions,’ and in most cases where it is wished that the product should contain as little inert matter as pos- sible ; hut when Avater at low temperatures is employed, the period of the maceration must he proportionately increased. By adopting the method of maceration in vacuo, or in an atmo- sphere of carbonic acid, the menstruum may be allowed to lay in contact with the vegetable matter for an unlimited period, without de- composition taking place. Infusions, like decoctions, are liable to un- dergo spontaneous decomposition by keeping, especially in warm weather, when a few hours are often sufficient for their passage into a state of active fermentation; they should, therefore, when possible, he prepared for use daily, as beyond twenty-four hours they cannot be depended on. The London College directs a pint only to he made at a time, thus very properly regarding them as extemporaneous preparations. CONCENTEATED INFUSIONS, noW SO COmmon in the shops, and, unfortunately, so generally used in dispensing, are either made by taking 8 times the quantity of the ingredients or- dered in the pharmacopoeia, and then pro- ceeding in the usual manner, or by the method of displacement; or, by carefully and rapidly concentrating the simple infusions, by evapo- ration in a steam or salt-w'ater hath, until re- duced to about l-7th of the original quantity. In either case the liquid is put into a strong bottle, without being filtered, and 10 to 12g of rectifled spirit added to it, whilst still hot. The cork is then put in and secured down, and the whole agitated for some mi- nutes, after which it is set aside for a week, when the clear portion is carefully decanted from the sediment for sale. Another method, which answers well with the aromatic hitter vegetables, is to take 8 times the umal quan- tity of the ingredients, and to exhaust them with a mixture of rectifled spirit, 1 part, and distilled water, 3 parts; by digestion, or, better still, by percolation. Concentrated in- fusions made in this way keep well, and de- posit scarcely any sediment. IMany houses that are remarkable for the ‘ brilliancy’ and beauty of these preparations, employ | spirit of