1021 OXALURIC ACID—OXYGEN. 1 luaiitity sufficient to neutralize one half only jf the oxalic acid present; the crystalline jcales (OXALOVINATE OF potassa) which pre- jipitate are dissolved in very dilute alcohol, nid decomposed by hydro-fiuosilicic acid. It is i sour liquid, possessing little stability. I OXALU'RIC ACID. An acid discovered by Wohler and Liebig. It is obtained by heating |i solution of parabanic acid with ammonia, de- i^omposing a hot saturated solution of the resulting oxalukate of ammonia with iilute sulphuric acid, and rapidly cooling the liquid, when oxaluric acid falls as a white crys- talline powder. It possesses an acid taste and reaction, and forms salts (oxalueates) with the bases; its solution is resolved by ebulli- tion into free oxalic acid and oxalate of urea. OXAME'THANE. This substance may be iregarded as the ‘ ether ^ of oxamic acid. It is prepared by conducting dry gaseous am- monia into oxalic ether. A white solid sub- stance is formed, which is soluble in hot alcohol, and which separates on cooling in colourless, transparent crystals. It may also be prepared by adding ammonia, in small quantity, to a solution of oxalic ether in al- i cohol. The crystals of oxamethane are soluble in water, fusible, and volatile. OXAME'THYLARE. Syn. Oxamate of METHYL. A white, solid substance, formed when oxalate of oxide of methyl is treated with dry ammoniacal gas. It may be obtained in Ipearly cubic crystals from its alcoholic solu- [tion. OXAMTC ACID. A substance obtained, [along with other products, when binoxalate of ^ammonia is heated by means of an oil bath to about 450° Fahr. It forms salts (oxA.- MATEs) with the bases; those with lime and baryta are soluble; when heated in contact with alkalies and. oil of vitriol, it suffers de- composition. OX'AMIDE. A snow-white, tasteless, crys- talline powder, obtained during the destructive distillation of oxalate of ammonia. It is in- soluble in either water or alcohol, and is chiefly interesting as forming the type of a large class of bodies of a precisely similar con- stitution, containing the elements of an ammo- niacal salt, less those of water. OXAN'ILIDE and OXANILTC ACID. Bodies analogous to oxamide and oxamic acid, pi’o- duced by the distillation of neutral and acid! oxalate of aniline. OXIDA'TION. Syn. Oxydation. The combination of bodies with oxygen, forming oxides; the operation or process adopted to j induce or facilitate such conversion. See the respective oxides. Oxide, Oxygen, Oxyge- nation, &c. OXIDE. Syn. Oxyd; Oxydum, L. A compound formed by the direct union of oxygen with another body, and which does not exhibit acid qualities. The leading cha- racteristic of the oxides (oxy’da) is their basic [property, or power of forming salts with the acids. Some, however, are almost neutral, and exhibit little disposition to enter into such combinations. Potassa, soda, lime, litharge, and ru,st of iron, which are respectively direct compounds of the metals potassium, sodium, calcium, lead, and iron, with oxygen, may be taken as examples of the basic oxides ; and black oxide of manganese as an example of the NEUTEAL or indifferent ones. Formerly, the term ‘ oxide ’ was for the most part restricted to the compounds of oxygen with the metals; but at the present time it is extended to other bodies possessing a similar constitution and behaviour. Thus, we have oxide of ethyl (ethee), oxide of amyl (amyl-ethee), &c. In a general sense, or for theoretical purposes, all direct compounds of oxygen are occasionally termed oxides. Thus, benzoic acid is said to be an oxide of benzoyl, and hypochloeic acid b. peroxide of chlorine. The nomenclature of the oxides resembles that adapted for other compound bodies. The terms ‘ oxide' or ^protoxide,’ ^sesguioxide,' ‘ binoxide,' ‘ teroxide,’ &c., denote that the oxygen is in the ratio to the metal of 1 to 1 —1^ to 1 or 3 to 2—2 to 1—3 to 1, &c. The Greek numerals dis, iris, tetrahis, &c., are prefixed in a similar way, to denote oxides formed of 1 equivalent of oxygen with 2, 3, or more equivalents of metal. More complex ratios are denoted by a fraction, the nume- rator of which represents the eq. of oxygen, and the denominator the eq. of metal. The terminations -ous and -ic are occasionally em- ployed, as in the names of acids, the former being applied to the lower and the latter to the higher state of oxidation; as cuprous oxide, cupric o., ferrous oxide, ferric o., applied to the respective oxides of copper and iron. Oxides containing less than 1 eq. of oxygen to 1 eq. of metal are commonly called suboxides. See Nomenclatube, &c. 0XYCHL0"ilIDE. Syn. Oxichloeide ; OxYCHLOEiDHM, L. A term often loosely applied to^compounds of an oxide and chloride, whether in definite or variable proportions. They are also frequently called ^subchlo- EiDEs’ or ‘ submueiates.' See Antimony j (Oxychloride), &c. ' OXTCRATE. Syn. Oxyceattjm, L. The old name of a mixture of vinegar and water, dulcified with honey. OXYCRO'CEUM. See Plastees. OX'YGEN. Syn. Oxygen gas, Dephlo- gisticated AiEf, Empyeeal a.. Vital a. f; OxYGENiUM, L. An elementary body dis- covered by Scheele and Priestley in 1744. It is remarkable that, although this substance forms a large proportion of our atmosphere (nearly one fourth), and confers upon it the power of supporting respiration and combus- tion, and also constitutes the principal portion of the water of our rivers and seas (eight ninths), and enters largely into the compo- sition of the majority of the various mineral bodies that form the bulk of our globe, its