1270 TEMPERATURE—TETTEES. on standing. Hydeated tellyeous acid is also thrown dow'n when tellurite of potassa is mixed with nitric acid in slight excess. In this state it is a white powder, soluble in a certain extent in water, and reddens litmus. Under both forms it is easily soluble in alkaline solu- tions. Its salts are called tellueites. TEMPERATURE. “We measure the de- gree of heat by Fahrenheit’s thermometer. When we direct a boiling heat, we mean that of 212°. We call a gentle heat that which is denoted by any degree between 90° and 100° Fahr.” “ Whenever specific gravity is mentioned, we suppose the substance spoken of to be of the temperature of 62° Fahr.” (Ph. L.) In the Ph. E. & D., and in chemical works in this country generally, the specific gravities of bodies are taken at, or referred to, the tem- perature of 60° Fahr. See Theemometees. TENCH. The Cyprinus tinea (Linn.), a soft-finned abdominal fish, formerly employed in medicine, but now only known as an easily digestible and nice-flavoured fresh-water fish. TENT. A piece of lint, or compressed sponge, used to dilate openings, wounds, &c. TER-. See Nomenclatuee. TERBIUM. A rare metal found by Prof. Mosander, associated with EEBiUMand ytteium in ordinary ytteia. See Ehbium and Ytteia. TIR'EBENE. A hypothetical principle sup- posed to exist in the liquid hydrochlorate of oil of turpentine. TEREBYL'ENE. A volatile oily liquid, ob- tained by distilling the liquid hydrochlorate of oil of turpentine with quicklime. TER'RA. [L.] Earth. Teeea japonica, catechu; teeea pondeeosa, sulphate of ba- ryta, &c. TER'RA COT'TA. Literally, baked clay; a term applied to statues, architectural orna- ments, &,(*., made of pure white clay, fine sand, and powdered potsherds, slowly dried, and I aked to a strong hardness. TER'TIAN. See Inteemittent Fevee. TEST. Syn. Reagekt. Any substance employed to determine the name or character of any other substance, or to detect its presence in compounds. Reagents are used in both the solid and fiuid state; generally the latter, when they are knovvn as liquid tests, or test-solu- TIOKS (see belou'). Their application as re- agents is called ‘testing.’ For this purpose they are commonly added, drop by drop, to the liquid to be tested contained in a test-tube ov test-glass. A troy of employing them is to place a few drops of the liquid or sub- stance for examination on a slip of common vmdow glass, and to add to them a drop of tie test-liquid. By placing the glass over a sheet of wlnte paper, the effect will be rendered more perceptible. See Test Papee {jjaye 1030), and below. Test-solutions. These are generally pre- pared by dissolving the reagents in distilled water; or, in the case of Itquid reagents, by diluting them with distilled water. Othei solvents, as alcohol and ether, are occasionallj employed. For qualitative analysis, so- lutions containing 1 part of solid matter tc! 8 or 12 parts of water are commonly used. Test-solutions employed in volumetbic ANALYSIS usually contain 1 atom or equivalent of substance—weighed in grains per 1000 fiuid' grains, or in grammes per litre. Thus a normal solution of carbonate of soda used for acidimetry is prepared by dissolving the equi- valent (53 grains) of the salt in distilled water, and making up the solution to exactly fill the' standard 1000 gr. measure; or, if the French measures be used, by dissolving 53 grammes in 1 litre (= 1000 grammes). Whichever system is used, the strength of the solution is the — same. See Appendix. TET'ANUS. Spasm with rigidity. When “ it affects the under jaw, it is called teismus, or LOCKED-JAW; when the body is drawn back- ward by the contraction of the muscles, it is called opisthotonos ; when the body is bent forward, empeosthotonos ; and when the ■* body is drawn to one side, pleueosthotonos. The cause of tetanus, in temperate climates, is generally irritation of the nerves, arising from local injuries, especially punctured oi '' lacerated wounds. Of these, the most trivial are occasionally sufficient to produce locked* jaw. In hot climates disease is occasionallj' ^ produced by exposure to cold, or by suddenly’ suppressed perspiration. The last variety is curable; the former one, scarcely ever so. The proper treatment is a matter still undeter* mined. Sedatives, anlispasmodics, and poweiful stimulants, have each had their advocates. Large doses of wine and spirits, in conjunc-, i-- tion with opium, have occasionally been ad- H ministered with success. Electricity and the vapour bath have also proved useful In all an cases the bowels should be moved by active 1 aperients, either by the month or per anum. Iiii TETRATHIONIC ACID. See TeitHionic i Acid. TET'TERS. The popular name of several j cutaneous diseases. Be ANN Y tettee, or pityeiasis, is an erup* - tion in which there is a dry and reddened state of the skin, occurring in patches of every variety of size, and marked by the copious production of minute bran-like scales. It b always accompanied by itching, more or less severe, and sometimes unendurable. The face scalp, breast, hands, and feet, are the part*ij!i! usually attacked. The treatment is similar tc that of the other scaly eruptions. Crusted tetter, or ecthyma. See Prs- TULAE Eruptions {page 574), ! Dry tetter. See 1’soriasis. Humid tetter. Several vesicular erup- tions, w'hich are accompanied by a watery disj charge and the formation of a thick crust, ar( known by this name, but chiefly the variety! called by surgeons eczema. This affection b ; frequently observed in irritable habits, and is