KETCHUP. 810 added, and the whole boiled for an hour, with constant agitation with a wooden spatula; the boiling liquid is then filtered into a heated earthen pan containing a small quantity of very hot water, and the solution is allowed to cool as slowly as possible; the red powder which is deposited is collected on a cloth, on which it is well washed with cold water, and the superfluous water being reinoved by pres- sure, the powder is dried by a gentle heat, and is, lastly, passed through a fine silk-gauze sieve, and preserved from light and air. h. (Wholesale.) From black sulphuret of antimony, 4 Ih., carbonate of potassa, 1 lb.; boil in water, 2 gall., for half an hour, filter, &c., as before. The undissolved portion of sesquisulphuret of antimony may be boiled again several times with fresh potassa and water, until the whole is dissolved. Inferior to the last. e. (Cluzell’s keemes.) From tersulphuret of antimony, 4 parts; crystallized carbonate of soda, 90 parts; water, 1000 parts; boil, &c., as in 1, a, and dry the powder, folded up in paper, at a heat not exceeding 90° Fahr. 2. In the dey way.—a. (P. Cod.) Car- bonate of potassa, 100 parts; tersulphuret of antimony, 50 parts; sulphur, 3 parts; mix, fuse in a Hessian crucible, pour the melted mass into an iron mortar, and when cold reduce it to powder j next boil it in water, 1000 parts, contained in an iron vessel, filter the solution, and otherwise proceed as before. Product: large, but of inferior quality. b. (Fownes.) From tersulphuret of anti- mony, 5 parts; carbonate of soda (dry), 3 parts; water, 80 parts; fuse, &c., as before. Nearly equal to 1, a. c. (Berzelius.) Carbonate of potassa [^\xxe), 3 parts; tersulphuret of antimony, 8 parts ; water, q. s. Besembles the last. Prop., ^‘c. An odourless, tasteless powder, insoluble in both water and alcohol, and, when pure and carefully prepared, entirely soluble in hydrosulphate of ammonia. As prepared by the formulae 1, a, and 1, c, it is a very dark crimson powder, of a velvety smoothness ; but that from the other formulae has a brownish- red colour, more or less deep. The secret of preparing this compound of a fine and velvety quality, like that imported from the Conti- nent, consists simply in filtering the solution whilst boiling hot, and allowing it to cool very slowly, by placing the vessel in an appro- priate situation for that purpose. Another important point, according to Rose, is to em- ploy sufficient alkali to keep the whole of the teroxide of antimony in solution as the liquid cools, instead of allowing a part of it to be deposited with the kermes. This is the rea- son of the superior quality and mildness of that prepared according to the directions of the French Codex. The liquor decanted from the ‘kermes mineral’ yields the golden sulphu- EET OP ANTIMONY on the addition of an acid, for which purpose the acetic is generally employed. Dose. ^ gr. to 3 or 4 gr., as a diaphoretic, cathartic, or emetic. It occupies in foreign practice the place of our James’s Powder. KETCH'UP. Syn. Catchup, Catsup, Katch- up. The juice of certain vegetables strongly salted and spiced, so as to be used as sauce; or a simple sauce made without the natural juice as a substitute for the true ketchup. The following are the principal varieties :— Camp Ketchup. Prep. Take of good old beer, 2 quarts; white wine, 1 quart; anchovies, 4 oz. ; mix, heat it to the boiling-point, re- move it from the fire, and add oipeeled shalots, 3 oz.; mace, nutmegs, ginger, and black pepper, of each, bruised, oz.; macerate for 14 days, with frequent agitation, then allow' it to settle, and decant and bottle the clear portion. Cu'cumber Ketchup. Prep. From ripe cu- cumbers, in the same w'ay as mushroom ketchup. Very luscious. Mixed with cream, or melted butter, it forms an excellent white sauce for fowls, &c. Marine' Ketchup. Prep. Take of strong old beer, 1 gall. ; anchovies, 1^ lb.; peeled shalots (crushed), 1 lb.; bruised mace, mustard seed, and cloves, of each, ^ oz.; bruised pepper and ginger, of each, ^ oz.; mushroom ketchup and vinegar, of each, 1 quart; heat the mixture to the boiling-point, put it into a bottle, and ma- cerate for 14 days, frequently shaking; then strain through fiannel, and bottle it for use. Excellent w'ith anything; like the last, it makes good white sauce, and keeps w’ell. Mush'room Ketchup. Prep. 1. Sprinkle mushroom flops, gathered in September, with common salt, stir them occasionally for 2 or 3 days, then lightly squeeze out the juice, and add to each gallon, cloves and mustard seed, of each, bruised, ^ oz. ; allspice, black pepper, and ginger, of each, bruised, 1 oz.; gently heat to the boiling-point in a covered vessel, macerate for 14 da^'s, and decant or strain. Should it exhibit any indications of change in a few weeks, bring it again to the boiling-point, with a little more spice, and a table-spoonful more salt. 2. Take of mushroom juice, 2 gall.; pimento, 2 oz. ; cloves, black pepper, mustard seed, and ginger, of each, bruised, 1 oz.; salt, 1 lb. (or to taste); shalots, 3 oz.; gently simmer for 1 hour in a covered vessel, cool, strain, and bottle. 3. Take of mushroom juice, 100 gall.; black pepper, 9 lb.; allspice, 7 lb.; ginger, 5 lb.; cloves, 1 lb.; (all bruised;) salt, q. s.; gently simmer in a covered tin boiler for 1 hour. Oys'ter Ketchup. Prep. Pulp the oysters, and to each pint add, of sherry wine, or very strong old ale, 1 pint; salt, 1 oz. ; mace, oz. ; black pepper, 1 dr.; simmer very gently for 10 minutes, strain, cool, bottle, and to each bottle add a spoonful or two of brandy, and keep them in a cold situation. Cockle ketch- up and MUSSEL ketchup are made in the same way. Used to flavour sauces w'hen the fish are out of season; excellent with rump steak, &c.