967 OILS (MIXED). I principal impurities, and causes them to sub- side in the form of a dense black, heavy acid tar. To separate the remaining impurities, and that portion of the sulphuric acid which remains in the oil, it is next subjected to the action of caustic soda. As thus purified, the j PAEAFFIN OIL Contains four distinct com- I mercial products. To effect their separa- [ tion, the process of fractional distillation j is first employed. The first elevation of I temperature drives over the lighter and more volatile portions, which, when purified by a subsequent distillation, yields the fluid I known as paeaffin naphtha. This product ' is used as a substitute for ‘ turps,’ as a solvent for India rubber, and for burning in those naph- tha lamps so much employed by costermongers, and workmen in railway tunnels and similar situations. On the perfect separation of this naphtha the safety of the burning oil depends. This burning oil, the ‘paeaffin oil’ of com- merce, comes over at a much higher tem- perature than the naphtha. It is a perfectly safe lamp oil, and has a greater illuminating value than any other oil in the market. Its properties are noticed below. The third pro- duct in point of volatility is a comparatively heavy liquid (machineey oil), largely used for lubricating purposes in the Lancashire fac- tories. From this oil, and others which come over at a very high temperature, the fourth commercial product is separated by the action , of artificial cold. This last product is the beautiful translucent solid, paeaffin, now much used as a candle material.^ (See Paeaffin.) Prop. The ‘ paraffin oil’ of commerce is of , a very pale amber colour; is bright, perfectly I transparent, and remarkably limpid. Its 1 sp. gr. is *823. Its point of temporary igni- [ tion is 150° Fahr., that of permanent ignition j being a few degrees higher. Its odour is very slight. Its rate of combustion is slow, as may be inferred from the absence of the lighter oils, as indicated by its high sp. gr. and in- flaming-point. At the same time, its limpidity proves the absence of the heavier oils, and accounts for it rising through a long wick with freedom, and burning without charring the cotton. Petroleum Oil. Syn. Keeosene oil. Re- fined PETEOLEUM. Many of the burning oils now in the market are derived from American I petroleum. The native petroleums vary greatly in properties, and numerous methods of re- I fining are employed by the manufacturers, j Some make use of both acids and alkalies, j others employ alkalies alone, and steam is applied at various degrees of heat. Some of the oils produced are of excellent quality, I but others are inferior, and do not ascend the I wick in sufficient quantity to afibrd a constant i light. None of the native petroleums contain ^ Tor a detuiled account of the processes carried on at the Bathgate works, see Mr. Tegetmeier’s paper in 'Eng- land’s /rorliAops’—Groombridge and Sons. ‘ carbolic acid ’ and other impurities which exist in the oils distilled from coals and shales; hence their purification is simple and comparatively cheap. See Peteoleum, and above. Shale Oil. Products analogous to those de- rived from cannel or Boghead coal are obtained by the destructive distillation of bituminous shales and schists, and lignites or brown coals. On the Continent shale oils have for some time been manufactured on a large scale. OILS (Mixed). Syn. Compound oils; Olea composita, Olea mixta, L. Under these names are commonly included various mixtures of oils and other substances that possess an unctuous appearance. When not otherwise stated, they are prepared by simply agitating the ingredients together, and, after a sufficient time, decanting the clear portion, which, in some cases, is then filtered. A few of them only possess any importance. Some of them are highly esteemed as remedies among the vulgar, and the use of others is confined to veterinary medicine. The following include the principal mixed oils of the shops, to which the names of a few other compounds, which are frequently called ‘ oils ’ by the ignorant, are added, for the pur- pose of facilitating a reference to them:— Acou'stic Oil. Syn. Eae oil; Oleum ACOUSTICUM, O. TEEEBINTHINJE ACOUSTICUM, L. Prep. From oil of turpentine, 1 part ; oil of almonds, 6 parts; mix. In atonic deaf- ness, accompanied with induration of the wax. 1 or 2 drops are poured into the ear, or on a piece of cotton wool, jvhich is then gently placed in it. Black Oil. Syn. Oleum nigeum, L. Prep. 1. Oil of turpentine, 1 pint; rape oil, 3 pints; oil of vitriol, \ lb.; agitate well together with care ; then add of Barbadoes tar, 3 oz. ; again agitate well, and in 10 days decant the clear portion. Linseed oil is preferred for the above by many persons. 2. (Pereivall.) Sweet oil, 1 pint; oil of tur- pentine, 2 oz.; mix, add gradually of oil of vitriol, l:j oz., again mix, and leave the bottle open until the next day. Detersive, stimulant. Used by farriers for mange, &c. British Oil. Syn. Common oil of petee ; Oleum Beitannicum, O. peteje vulgaee, L. Prep. From oil of turpentine, 1 quart; Barbadoes tar, 1 lb.; oils of rosemary and origanum, of each, 1 oz. Stimulant. For- merly reputed to possess the most astonishing virtues. Camphora'ted Oil. Liniment of camphor. Car'ron Oil. Liniment of lime. Chahert’s Oil. Syn. Chabeet’s empteeu- MATIC OIL; OlEUM ChaBEETI, 0. CONTEA TiENiAM Chabeeti, L. Oil of turpentine, 3 parts; Dippel’s animal oil, 1 part; mix, and distil 3 parts. It must be preserved from the air and light. Used in tapeworm. Dose. 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls, in water, night and morn- ing, until 5 or 6 fl. oz., or more, have been