FRUMENTY—FUEL. 669 i ESSENCE OE APPLE, wliicli are, perhaps, the ; best of all the artificial essences, are respec- 1 tively formed from the acetate and vale- I EIANATE OF AMYLE. See AMYLE, ESSENCE, i &c. I FRU'MENTY. TVheat boiled in water until quite soft, then taken out, drained, thinned I with milk, sweetened with sugar, and lla- ! voured with nutmeg. When currants and eggs \ are added, it forms ‘ Somersetshire eru- j MENTY’/ Some persons boil the wheat like rice. “ Eaten with milk, in the evening, for j some time, it will often relieve costiveness.” ! (Griffith.) I FRY TNG-. ^‘The frying-pan is, without I doubt, the most useful of all kitchen imple- ments, and, like a good-natured servant, is often imposed upon, and obliged to do all the work, while its companion, the gridiron, is quietly reposing in the chimney corner.” “ The usual complaint of food being rendered greasy by frying is totally remedied by saute- ing the meat in a small quantity fat, butter, or oil, which has attained a proper degree of 1 heat, instead of placing it in cold fat, and let- j ting it soak while melting.” “According to the (common) mode in which all olqects are cooked [ which are called fried, it would answer to the French word ‘ saute,’ or the old English term ; frizzle but to fry any object, it should be j immersed in very hot fat, oil, or butter.” “ To I frizzle, saute, or, as I will now designate it, I semi fry, is to place in the pan any oleaginous ; substance, so that, when melted, it shall cover i the bottom of the pan by about two lines; and j when Jiot, the article to be cooked is to be I placed therein. To do it to perfection requires I a little attention, so that the pan shall never get too hot. It should also be perfectly clean — a great deal depends on this.” (Soyer.) According to the writer quoted above, a , chop or steak, for frying, should be chosen [ J of an inch thick, and should “ never exceed ; one inch, nor be less than half an inch, and to I be as near as possible of the same thickness all over.” “An ill-cut chop (or steak) never can be but ill-cooked; you can always equalise them (when badly cut) by beating them out I with a chopper.” “ The motive of seini-frying food is to have it done quickly; therefore, to fry a whole fowl, or even half (for example), is useless, as it could be cooked in a different way in the same I time; but to semi-fry a fowl (in joints or j pieces), with the object of having it quickly i placed on the table, in order to satisfy a good, ! and perhaps fastidious appetite, it should be I done in a similar way to that practised in I Egypt some 3000 years since, and of late years for the great Napoleon—that is, cooked in oil. In France this dish is called ‘ Poulct a la Ma- rengo.’ It is related that the great conqueror, after having gained that celebrated victory, ate three small chickens at one meal done in this way, and bis appetite and taste were so good, and he approved of them so highly, that he desired that they might always be served in the same way during the campaign.” “ For many objects, I prefer t\ve frying-pan to the gridiron ; that is, if the pan is properly used. As regards economy, it is preferable, securing all the fat and gravy, which is often lost when the gridiron is used.” “ This sim])le batterie de cuisine,” may be employed “equally as well in the cottage as in the palace, or in the bachelor’s chamber as in the rooms of the poor.” (Soyer.) FUCUS’AMIDE, FU'CUSINE, and FU'CU- SOL. Compounds obtained by Dr. Stenhouse from several varieties of eucus by treatment with sulphuric acid, as in the preparation of EUEETJRINE (wliich See). FU'EL. Matter used for the production of heat by burning. The principal substances employed as fuel are—anthracite, charcoal, COAL GAS, COKE, OIL, SPIRIT, PITCOAL, TURE, and WOOD. The healing power of almost every descrip- tion of fuel has been determined by the direct experiments of Lavoisier, Regnault, Andrews, and others; the general principle of their methods consisting in the use of an apparatus wherein the entire heat of combustion was absorbed by a known weight of water, the whole arrangement being protected from the influence of external changes of temperature, and the increase of the temperature of the water being known by the simultaneous indi- cation of several delicate thermometers sus- pended in it. The real value of such determi- nations is simply relative. The imperfect character of most boiler and furnace arrange- ments, and the large quantity of fuel which passes into the ‘ash-pit’ unconsumed, together with the irregular ‘ draught,’ and the amount of heat absorbed by excess of cold air, result practically in an enormous loss of heating power, even under the most careful manage- ment. The mechanical condilion of a fuel must be considered in estimating its value. In a series of trials instituted by the Government, it was a sine qua non that the toughness of each kind of coal must be such, for naval use, as to resist, without crumbling, the constant friction in the ship’s hold, at the same time that its ‘ fracture’ must be such that it packs into the smallest possible space.^ In the chemical laboratory, coal GAS is now generally employed as fuel. It is cheap and manageable, and, with proper apparatus, may be made to supply almost any amount of heat. Where gas cannot be conveniently procured, OIL and SPIEIT are used as fuel for lamps. See Anthracite, Charcoal, Coke, Furnace, PiTCOAL, &c., also below. Economical Fuel. Various mixtures have been recommended under this name. The following is one of tlie best:— Prep. Small coal, charcoal, or sawdust, 1 1 For full iiifoiniatiou on coal anil other fuels, refer to Ure’s “ Dict.qfJrts, Manufaclnrcs, S'C-;" Percy’s " Melal- Inrgy and Watts’s “ Diet, of Chemistnj,’'