428 CHILBLAIN. the full-grown root into slices, and exposing it to heat in iron cylinders, along with about or of lard, in a similar way to that adopted for coffee. When ground to powder in a mill, it constitutes the Chicoey of the grocers (chicqey coffee, stjccoey c. ; ea- DIX chico'eii toeeefac'ta, e. c. t. con- tei'ta) ; so generally employed both as a sub- stitute for coffee and as an adulterant of that article. The addition of 1 part of good, fresh- roasted chicory to 10 or 12 parts of coffee forms a mixture which yields a beverage of a fuller flavour, and of a deeper colour, than that furnished by an equal quantity of pure or unmixed coffee. In this way a less quantity of coffee may be used, but it should be remem- bered that the article substituted for it does not possess in any degree the peculiar exc'ting, soothing, and hunger-staying properties of that valuable product. The use, however, of a larger proportion of chicory than that just named imparts to the beverage an insipid flavour, intermediate between that of treacle and liquorice; whilst the continual use of roasted chicory, or highly chicorized coffee, seldom fails to weaken the powers of digestion and derange the bowels. “ There can be no doubt that roasted chicory must, when taken largely, have a tendency to excite diarrhoea.” (Pereira.) Pur,, 4*c. The ground chicory of the shops, like ground coffee, is almost universally adul- terated. Pigments are added to it to colour it, and various vegetable substances to lessen its value. The following articles have been reported to have been detected in roasted chicory, or to have been known to be used to adulterate it:— Venetian red, reddle, and red clay; roasted acorns, beans, carrots, damaged dog-biscuits, damaged bread, damaged wheat, horse-chesnuts, mangel wurzel, parsnips, peas, rye, and sugar; coffee flights (coffee husks), cq^na (roasted lupins), Hambro’ powder {rodi?,tedL peas coloured with reddle), and the marc of coffee; exhausted bark (from the tan yards), logwood dust, mahogany dust, &c. It has also been asserted that the scorched livers of bul- locks, horses, and dogs, have been applied to the same purpose; bi;t of this there is not sufficient evidence. The only way to avoid being thus cheated or poisoned is to buy the chicory whole, and to grind it at home. Roasted chicory is highly hygrometric or absorbent of moisture, and should, therefore, be always kept in close vessels (bottles or canisters), the same as coffee. If the lumps become tough or soft, or the powder cakes to- gether, it is unfit for use; but in some cases it may be recovered, by exposing it on a plate in an oven until it again becomes perfectly dry or brittle. Tests.—1. Powdered chicory thrown on water turns it reddish-brown, and rapidly sinks, leaving light impurities either floating or diffused through the liquid.—2. The cold decoction tested with tincture, or solution of iodine, gives a brown colour; if it turns purple, blue, or black, it indicates the presence of roasted peas, beans, rye, or some other like substance, containing starch.—3. Persulphate or sesquichloride of iron, added in the same way, should not materially affect the liquid; if it turns it bluish or blackish, it indicates the presence of roasted acorns, oak-bark tan, or some other substance containing tannin.—4. Water acidulated with vinegar, digested on the powder, should not be blackened, or even materially darkened, by tincture of galls or a solution of red prussiate of potash; the con- trary shows the presence of ferrugineous colouring matter.—5. The dry powder, when incinerated, should not leave more than 4^ to 5g of ash, which should be of a grayish or fawn colour; the contrary indicates the pre- sence of reddle, red clay, ochre, or the like.— 6. To the above may be added attention to the odour, colour, and appearance, both to the naked eye and under the microscope; by the latter, adulteration may be easily detected. See Coffee. CHIL'BLAIN. Syn. Pee'nio, L. An in- flammatory swelling, of a purple or lead colour, produced by the action of cold. Chilblains (peenio'nes) exclusively attack the extremi- ties of the body, and are generally confined to the fingers, toes, and heels. The common symptoms are itching and irritation, more or less intense, often accompanied with shooting pains, and tenderness, and tumefaction of the parts. Children, especially those of a scro- fulous habit, and elderly persons, are generally the most liable to chilblains. The common cause of chilblains is holding the hands or feet to the fire after exposure to cold. The sudden change of temperature partially destroys the vitality of the minute surfacial vessels, and I thus prevents the proper flow of blood through j the part. The best preventives of chilblains are woollen socks or stockings, good water- proof shoes, woollen gloves, exercise, and friction. These act by promoting the circu- lation of the blood in the extremities, and protecting them from vicissitudes of tem- perature. When chilblains have once formed, the best treatment is friction with stimulants, as spirits of wine and camphor, oil of turpen- tine, opodeldoc, dilute spirits, camphorated oil, hartshorn and oil, &c. Linnaeus recommends bathing the part with dilute muriatic acid, just strong enough to faintly prick the skin. When the inflamed parts have ulcerated, they are commonly called kibes. In this state they should be dressed with a little resin cerate, or elemi ointment. If fungous granulations appear, they must be removed by touching them with nitrate of silver or blue vitriol. See Chaps. &c. Remedies foe Chilblains.—The following have been strongly recommended by different parties, and may all prove useful in their turns, as circumstances and convenience may suggest:—