832 LEPROSY—LETTUCE. many parts of Asia, where they are largely consumed as human food. Lentils are more nourishing than any other description of pulse, but are reputed difficult of digestion, apt to disorder the bowels, and injurious to the eyes. Several alimentary preparations, sold at high prices as cures for dyspepsia, constipation, &c., contain lentil flour as the principal ingredient. See Ervalenta and Reyalenta. LEP'ROSY. Syn. Lepra, L. In pathology, a scaly eruption of the skin, characterised by patches of a circular form, and distinguished from the rashes and pimples by the alteration of the scarf-skin which covers the inflamed part. The cuticle becomes reddish and scaly; at first upon one spot, often the knee, and thence gradually spreads over the body, the parts attacked becoming stiff and uncomfort- able, and, generally, most disagreeable in ap- pearance. By the time the patches reach the size of a shilling or half-a-crown, the scales usually fall off, and very frequently the surface looks red and angry, and remains bare until the eruption declines altogether. This variety is the ‘lepra YELaARis’ of medical writers. The ‘lepri alphos,^ another va- riety, and one not uncommon in this country, is so named because the patches, when they cease to enlarge, after attaining a size about that of a sixpenny-piece, become depressed in the centre, and within the depression minute, white, powdery scales may be observed, whilst the surrounding border continues raised, and of the same red colour as at first. This variety usually commences at the elbow, but soon in- volves the forearm, and often the back of the hand. In the ‘ lepra nigricans’ the colour of the patches is dark and livid, and their cen- tral portion is not depressed, as in ‘lepra ALPHOS.’ In other respects, it resembles ‘ lepra vulgaris.’ In ‘ lepra guttata’ the appear- ance of the eruption is that of a number of drops of water hanging to the skin. The little scale increases in thickness by the addition of fresh layers to its under surface, and has a bright, silvery lustre, which is due to'the ex- treme thinness of the layers of scarf-skin, and the sponginess of its texture. “ The eruption does not, however, constantly retain its early spotted character ; more frequently, the spots increase in dimensions, and spread out into the form of circular patches, having the size of a shilling, half-a-crown, or crown-piece. This enlarged growth naturally requires time; and in proportion to the period occupied in growth is the thickness of the laminated scale; the latter, however, never exceeds in thickness a piece of moderately thick paper, and always preserves its beautiful silvery aspect. There are no humours, no irregular, unsightly crusts, no excoriated surfaces, in this eruption; in fact, there is nothing repulsive; but, on the contrary, if it were the general, instead of being the exceptional, it would be thought very beautiful, and would become highly fashion- able.” (Eras. Wilson.) The treatment of leprosy consists chiefly of frictions, and warm vapour or sulphur baths, followed by the use of slightly stimulating ointments or liniments, with a light but nu- tritious diet of fresh meat, vegetables, and fruit, and entire abstinence from wine, spirits, and internal stimulants generally. A course of sulphureous mineral waters is generally sufiicient of itself to remove ordinary cases. The administration of solution of potassa, or of arsenite of potassa, or bichloride of mer- cury, has also been recommended, and is often useful. Sir Alex. Crichton employed the de- coction of the leaves and twigs of Solanum dul- camara (bitter sweet or woody nightshade), in doses of 2 or 3 fl. oz. thrice a day, gradu- ally increased until at least a pint a day was taken. This is declared by the editors of the ‘ Lexicon Medicum’ to be “ one of the most ef- fectual remedies for lepra, under all its va- rieties.” In delicate and relaxed habits, es- pecially in females, chalybeates have often been given with much advantage. Perhaps, however, of all others', the most active and certain remedy is Donovan’s solution of hy- driodate of arsenic and mercury (liq. ht- DRIOD. ARSEN. ET HTDRARG.). Leprosy appears to have been of much more frequent occurrence in ancient than in modern times. It is often spoken of in Holy Writ, and it occupied the particular attention of the Jewish lawgiver. But it is generally believed that the lepers mentioned by both the sacred and profane historians, were afflicted with a disease more nearly resembling the elephanti- asis of modern writers, than leprosy. LETH'ARGY. Syn. Lethargus, L. A heavy, unnatural sleep, sometimes bordering upon apoplexy, with scarcely any intervals of waking, from which the patient is with diffi- / culty aroused, and into which he again sinks as soon as the excitement is withdrawn. It frequently arises from plethora, in which case depletion is indicated; or from the suppression of some usual discharge or secretion, v/hich it should then be our business to re-establish. It also often arises from over mental fatigue and nervous debility, when relaxation from busi- ness, the use of a liberal diet, and ammoniacal stimulants and antispasmodics, are found use- ful. When depending on a determination of blood to the head, cupping may be had re- course to, and all sources of excitement avoided. In all cases the bowels should be moved as soon as possible by means of mild purgatives. LETTUCE. Syn. Lactuca, L. The early leaves or head of the Lactuca sativa, or garden lettuce, form a common and wholesome salad. They are reputed slightly anodyne, laxative, hypnotic, and antaphrodisiac, and have been recommended to be eaten at supper by those troubled by watchfulness, and in whom there exists no tendency to apoplexy. The “ flow- ering herb” (lactuca) is officinal in the Ph. L.; the “ inspissated juice,” in the Ph. E. ; and the “ inspissated juice and leaves,” in the