ALKALIMETRY. 100 hyposulphites, the same method is to be fol- lowed, except that liquor of ammonia, instead of ‘ water,’ is to be employed for moistening the powder. To remedy the error which would arise from the apparent amount of carbonic acid liberated during the assay, being swelled by the disengagement of ‘ sulphuretted hy- drogen’ or ‘ sulphurous acid ’ from these sub- stances, a small quantity of neutral (i. e., yellow) chromate of potash}- may be added to the alkaline solution in the flask {A)-, by which they will be converted into sulphates, sulphur, and water, which will remain in the apparatus, the carbonic acid only being evolved. As most sorts of soda of commerce contain one or other of the substances (just) named, and as it is far more simple to add at once some chromate ofpo- tassa to the soda solution, than to test the latter for either of the three salts—it is always adds- ahleio make it arM/c,inthe examination of soda, to add some chromate of potassa.” (Fresenius.)^ If the SODA under examination contains much chloride of sodium {‘ common salt ’) the addition of a considerable excess of sul- phuric acid to the alkaline solution in the flask i^A), must be carefully avoided; as other- wise, “ a perceptible amount of hydrochloric acid, and, in the presence of an alkaline chro- mate, with application of a stronger heat, chlo- rine also will escape. The heating of the fluid still containing absorbed carbonic acid, which is” ordered above “ at the end of the process, should therefore be effected by means of a small smd-haW^ (or water-bath), “ and not in the usual way—by the addition of more sul- phuric acid.” (Fresenius.) 2. (Ure.) This varies from the preceding chiefly in the use of the ingenious apparatus figured in the engr., and depends on the same principles. The twin globes {A and B) are each about 2 inches in diameter; their con- necting necks about \ an inch in diameter, one of which is strangled into a bore almost capil- lary. The cork (c) fits air-tight, and is perforated by the tube (d); the other end of this tube, passing down the open centre of (e), terminates at some distance below the surface of the liquid in the globe {B). For use a minute hol- low glass-head is placed over the lower orifice of the globe {A), and the specimen in the state of neutral carbonate being introduced, the globe {B) is ra- ther more than half-filled with concentrated sulphuric acid. The cork and tube (e and d) are now adjusted in their > The qiiantity may he from a small teaspoonful, down to one-half, or to one-third of it, according to the quantity of alkali taken for the assay. 2 The value of chromate'of potassa for this puiTiose was first shewn hy Dopping. Aiin.derChimie,” Its use has since been recommended and adopted by Fordis and Gelis, and Fresenius and Will, and is now generally adopted. places, and the whole apparatus very accu- rately weighed. It is now slightly inclined, to permit a little of the acid in B to pass over into A. Effervescence immediately ensues and continues at the wdll of the operator, who regulates it by the degree of slope which he gives the apparatus; a convenience which forms the peculiar feature and advantage of this contrivance. The gas eliminated is dried by passing through the acid, as before. The other parts of the process resemble those al- ready explained. The weights to be taken, &c., are the same as in II., 1. b. VOLTJMETEICALLY :—In this method, the quantity of carbonic acid gas evolved is esti- mated by volume instead of ‘ weight.’ A suit- able apparatus for the purpose is figured and described at page 36. Gen. Commentary. Of the preceding me- thods of alkalimetry, those depending on the saturating power of the specimen are the ones chiefly used in these realms. The choice of the test-acid, and the other minor details of the process, depend entirely on the operator. The test-liquor No. 1 {page 95) answers the purpose admirably; but requires a trifling calculation to give per-centage results. By means of the test-acid No. 2 {p. 96), carefully employed by volume, the per-centage quantity of alkali present in the specimen may easily be determined to the ^^gth of 1§; or by em- ploying it by weight, instead of by ‘ volume ’ (see p. 97), and using a very delicate balance, the quantity of alkali may be found true to the g'gth of a gr.; and if it were possible in ( the manufactory or the workship to effect absolutely perfect neutralisation, it might be determined in this way, even to the j^gth of a i gr.,—a degree of precision unattainable by any other method adapted to common use. The test- acids No. 3 & 4 (;?. 97), give equally accurate re- sults, with the simple difference of two liquids being necessary. Their use was strongly re- i commended by the late lamented and talented i Mr. Hennel, they have been long successfully ; employed at Apothecaries’ Hall, and are very | generally adopted in extensive laboratories and ' factories in which assays of both alkalies are frequently made. No. 5 {p. 97), is well suited i to all ordinary purposes, and from being easily applied with tolerable accuracy by any person ' with a steady hand who can read and write, is in common use in many laboratories, and is i in general favour amongst persons unaccus- ^ tomed to troublesome chemical operations, i The process of F. Mohr (No. 6), gives excellent results, and is eminently suitecl for scientific in- " vestigations. Of the so called netv German- ® method of alkalimetrxf explained at p. 97-9, it ’ It may be here remarketl that the honour of originating and practising the assay of acids and alkalies, by the esti- | lii mation of the evolved carbonic acid, both gravimetrically | and volumetricalhj, is due to the late Dr. Andrew Ure-r-a jj man who, in the extent of his information, in his power of grasping his subject, generalising scientific facts, and ap- plying them practically, has seldom been eqrralled, and, perhaps, never excelled.