1111 POTASSA, ;en succesfully carried out on the commercial ale. Most of the SALTS OP potassa may he pre- '.red hy directly saturating or neutralizing a lalion of the acid with a solution of the car- nate or hydrate of potassa; and, in some Istances, advantageously, hy double deconipo- '.ion. The filtered solution will generally eld crystals, either by simple evaporation or : allowing the boiling concentrated solution • cool very slowly. See CEYSTALLizATiojf, iul below. I Ac'etate of Potassa. Syn. Ditieetic SALTf, |DLIATED TAETAEf, ESSENTIAL SALT OP WINEf, jiGESTIVE SALT OP SlLVIUSfj PoTASSiE ACETAS i’h. L. E. & D.), Kali ACETAsf, Kali ace- iLTUMf, Sal DiUEETicust, L- Prep. 1. (Ph. I.) Acetic acid, 26 fl. oz.; distilled loater, 12 I oz.; mix, and add, gradually, of carbonate \ potassa, 1 lb., or q. s. to saturate the acid; ‘xt, filter the solution, and evaporate it by le heat of a sand bath, gradually applied, itil the salt is dried. 2. (Ph. E.) Pyroligneous acid, 1|- pint; rbonate of potassa (dry), 7 oz., or q. s.; mix before, then evaporate the neutral solution 'er a vapour bath, until it is sufficiently con- ■ntrated to form a (dry) concrete mass on loling; lastly, allow the whole to cool slowly, ' as to crystallize in a solid cake, which must ? broken up, and immediately put into well- osed bottles. 3. (Ph. D.) Pure carbonate of potassa, 1 lb.; )muiercial acetic acid (sp.gr. 1'041), 1 quart; ix as before, and boil for a couple of inutes next add, if necessary, a few drops :ore of acetic acid, “ so that the solution may ive a slightly acid reaction, and, having eva- orated the liquid to dryness, melt the re- duuin, by the cautious application of heat, in clean pot of cast iron; the liquefied salt is ow to be removed from the fire, and when, pon cooling, it has solidified, it should be uickly broken into fragments of a suitable ze, and enclosed in a bottle furnished with an ir-tight stopper.^’ Prop., ^c. Acetate of potassa, prepared as hove, occurs in shining white masses, having foliated soft texture, a slight but peculiar dour, and a warm sharp taste; it deliquesces 1 the air; dissolves in rather less than its own .’eight of water, and in about twice its weight f alcohol; and by exposure to a red heat is onverted into pure carbonate of potassa. In rade it is preserved in well-corked and sealed 'Ottles. Pur. “ It is (entirely) soluble in w'ater, and u rectified spirit. These solutions neither (feet litmus nor turmeric, nor are they dis- nrbed by either chloride of barium or nitrate >f silver; but if from a stronger solution any- hing is thrown down by nitrate of silver, he same is again dissolved on the addition of vater or dilute nitric acid. Sulphuric acid )cing added, fumes of acetic acid are evolved. LOO gr. of this salt, digested in sulphuric acid, the solution evaporated, and the residuum dried at a high temperature, furnish 88'8 gr. of sulphate of potassa.” (Ph. L.) Uses, Sfc. Acetate of potassa has been found useful in dropsies, febrile affections, jaundice, scurvy, calculus, and several chronic skin dis- eases. During its exhibition the urine becomes at first neutral, and then alkaline, owing to the salt being converted into carbonate of potassa in the system. Dose. As a diaphoretic and antiscorbutic, 15 to 20 gr.; as a diuretic, 20 to 60 gr.; as an aperient, 2 to 3 dr.; in each case dissolved in some bland liquid, or in the infusion of some mild vegetable bitter. Antimo^'niate of Potassa. See Diaphoeetic Antimony {page 186). Arse'hiiate of Potassa. Syn. Acid aese- niate oe^ potassa, Monopotassic aeseniate, Binaeseniate of potassa*, Macquee’s ae- SENicAL salt; Potass^ binaesenias. Kali AESENiAsf, L. Prep. Take of arsenious acid (white arsenic) and nitrate of potassa, of each, in powder, 1 part; heat the mixture to dull redness in a glass flask, until it fuses and red vapours cease to be evolved; dissolve the re- siduum, when cold, in boiling distilled water, 50 parts; concentrate the solution by evapora- tion, and set it aside to crystallize. Prop., Sfc. This salt forms large crystals, which are permanent in dry air, soluble in about parts of water, and insoluble in al- cohol. It is reputed tonic, alterative, and antiperiodic. Dose, to I gr., dissolved in sweetened water. It is also used to form a resist-paste in calico-printing, and in the manu- facture of cobalt-blue. Obs. Acid arseniate of potassa is now made on a very extensive scale in Saxony. It forms the ‘AESENIATE OF POTASH’ of commerce, and the ‘ POTASS^ AESENIAS’ employed in medi- cine. The AESENIATES OF LIME and MAG- NESIA are prepared in a similar manner. Ar- senic acid, being tribasic, forms three distinct salts with potassa. The basic and nehteae AESENIATES OF POTASSA are not used in the arts, and need not be noticed here. Ar'senite of Potassa. Syn. Potass.® aese- NITIS, L. This is formed by boiling hydrated potassa, or its carbonate, with arsenious acid, in atomic proportions. It is a very soluble and scarcely crystallizable compound. It forms the basis of Fowlee’s solution, and the LiQUOE AESENiCALis of the Pharmacopoeias. There appear to be three distinct aesenites OF POTASSA. Bo”rate of Potassa. Syn. Potass^ boeas, L. Prep. From dry carbonate of potassa and dry boracic acid, equal parts, reduced to pow- der, and heated to redness in a covered cru- cible; the sublimed mass, when cold, being dissolved in boiling water, and the filtered solution concenti’ated by evaporation, and then set aside to crystallize; or at once completely evaporated to dryness. Dose. 1 to 6 gr.; in calculi, &c. Boro-tar'trate of Potassa. Syn. Soeitbee