ARSENIOUS ACID. 216 Susc. 555^^ (Devergie). Nitrate of silver produces a similar precipitate in neutral solu- tions. Obs. This test, when properly prepared, yields a yellow precipitate with no known sub- stance save arsenious acid. It is usually re- garded as inapplicable to solutions containing sulphates, chlorides, and organic matter; but Dr. Ure asserts that these substances do not interfere with the test if it be used in the fol- lowing manner :—Dip a small glass-rod into liquid ammonia, and then plunge it into the fluid under examination; dip another glass rod into a solution of pure nitrate of silver, and plunge this also into the sample, when either a fine yellow cloud will be formed, or at flrst merely a white curdy precipitate. After a second or third immersion of the nitrate rod, a central yellow spot will be perceived, surrounded with white chloride of silver; and after another immersion, the yellow cloud on the surface will become very evident.” Another modification of this process is to drop a little of the sus- pected fluid on white writing-paper, and to draw several lines over it with a stick of lunar caustic; if arsenious acid be present, it will leave streaks that will assume a bright yellow- colour when brushed over with liquid ammonia, or when exposed to its fumes; if the contrary be the case, they will gradually fade and turn black. (Dr. Paris.) A more certain and re- liable method is to add to the suspected fluid a few drops of nitric acid, and then a solution of nitrate of silver, until the whole of the chlorine is precipitated as chloride of silver; when the test may be applied to the filtered liquor in the usual manner. 5. Baumann's Test. The suspected sub- stance is triturated with 3 to 6 times its weight of ‘fine iron-filings,’ which have been ex- posed to a red heat, and known to be pure, and the mixture is heated in the reducing flame of the blowpipe; a very perceptible odour of garlic is evolved when arsenic is pre- sent.i Susc. to jjgth of a gr. 6. Crystallisation Test:—a. A very minute quantity of arsenious acid placed in a small tube {arsenic-tube), and heated in the flame of a spirit lamp, gives a crystalline sublimate, which collects on the cooler portion of the tube, and which, when examined by a pocket lens, is found to consist of sparMing octahedral crystals (see engr^ : —b. By evaporating a few drops of a clear aqueous solu- tion of arsenious acid on a glass-plate or (Magnified.) watch-glass, similar crystals will also be 1 “ Chem. Gaz.," v. i. obtained. (See engr.) In both cases they may be submitted to other tests.—Obs. The presence of alkaline or earthy bases prevents the volatilisation of the arsenious acid, to neutralise which a little boracic acid may be added.^ 7. Ellis's Test. This is a modifica- tion of the ‘ nascent hydrogen test,’ in which the ‘ suspected gas ’ is passed through a tube containing slips of copper leaf or riband, or still better pure oxide of copper, gently heated; the end of the tube communicating with the atmosphere being drawn to a capillary size, at which the gas may be enflamed and tested, as in ‘ Marsh’s Apparatus.’ (See engr.) If arsenic be abundant in the gas, the copper will be al- most instantly ‘ frosted over ’ with a coating of metallic arsenic; and after continuing the heat for a few minutes it will present a beautiful (Magnified.) (a.) Flask suspectedfltiid,dilute sulflmric acid, and zinc. (b.) Funnel. {c.) Tube containing the copper-leaf or c.-rihand, and heated by the lamp {d). {e.) Support. If.) Capillary end of tube (c), with the gas inflamed. silvery surface, and may then be submitted to further examination. (See Rensch’s Test, infra.) The slips of copper for this purpose are directed to be prepared by exposure, in a clear fire, to a dull red heat, and are then to be j suddenly thrown into cold water; after which they are to be wiped dry for testing. Susc. I S05,'(555 to See Marsh’s Test. ^ 8. Fleitmann's Test. The ‘ suspected arseni- cal solution ’ is mixed with a large excess of a strong solution of caustic potassa, and then boiled, along with some granulated zinc, ^ flask furnished with a perforated cork carrying a bent tube of small diameter. Arseniuretted hydrogen is evolved, and may be recognised by allowing it to play against a piece of white filtering paper spotted with a solution of ni- trate of silver (or by any other means already de- scribed). The spots assume a purplish-black 2 Refer to Absenic (properties of), ante. ^