45 Ji:—^THOGEN. even a million of readers. When it is practi- ,' cable to attain such publicity at a low cost, j| and “ when some actually do attain it, how can I those who neglect it, hope to build up a new || business ?” “ He who neglects the advantages of advertising, not only robs himself of his fair prospects, but bestows the spoils on his I rivals.” (“ Money,” Lond., 1853.) The above opinions of Mr. Freedley are fully borne out by j| the confessions of some of the most extensive (! advertisers of the present day. One of the jl merchant tradesmen of this metropolis, who ]' patronises in this way almost every respectable j periodical published in these realms, recently <1 asserted, that he realised a clear profit of nearly j! 200 per cent, on and from the amount he i annually expended in advertisements. Another ( party, (a notorious and successful quack,) a ^ short time since confidently assured the writer, I that he could “estimate his income in ad- t vance,” to a considerable degree of nicety, by I deciding what amount he would expend during the'period in advertising. The recipe for ob- |j turning wealth—the high road to fortune >^for I him who has any marketable commodity or (j value to offer in return for money, according to the above authorities, is to be found in ex- l tensive and legitimate advertising. The low i charges for advertisements which have pre- i vailed since the repeal of the duty on them, in 1853, has opened the columns of the news- paper to all classes of the community. The j ‘ advertising-van ’ nuisance was prohibited in the same year (1853). I (e). [L.] For words sometimes written with this initial diphthong, and not found below, I look under E. .aiGI'RINON (-ji'-). [Gr.] See Ointment ! (Poplar). I .EGYPTI'ACUMf (-jip-ti'-). [Lat.] Syn. XjNaiJEN'TiJM iEGTPTiACUM, L. Oxymel or liniment of verdigris. The name originated with Hippocrates, who is said to have learned its composition in Egypt. iSOLTPILE (-pile). A hollow ball of metal, ' having a slender neck with a very small ori- ! fice, contrived to exhibit the conversion of I water into steam by the action of heat, and to ! account for the natural production of winds. It was known to the ancients, is mentioned by Vitruvius, and was studied by Descartes and others. It has been used in surgery to pro- ' duce eschars, in the same cases as moxas; the effect of the steam being limited by means of a piece of perforated pasteboard. When filled with alcohol, and the jet of vapour inflamed, it is sometimes employed as a blowpipe. M. Soyer uses an apparatus of this kind to supply the heat in his portable furnace. The liquid, however, which he employs, is camphine. A'ER (a'-er). [L., prim. Gr.] Air. A'ERATED (a-er-rate-ed). In chemistry, S(c., impregnated with carbonic acid. See Alkali, Lemonade, Waters, &c. AE"RIAL (a-ere'-e-al). Belonging to the air or atmosphere; produced by, consisting of. depending on, or partaking of the nature of the air. Aerial acid is carbonic acid; aerial plants (aerides, aerophytes), air-plants (which see). AERIFICA'TION(a -er-e-). Aerifica'tio, L.; Aeripication, Gazeieication, Fr. In chemistry, the conversion of a body into gas. A'ERIFORM (a'-er-). Syn. Aeriporm'is, L.; Aeriforme, Gazeiforme, Fr.; Ldftfor- Mia, &c., Ger. In chemistry, air-like, gaseous. AEROL'OGY. Syn. Aerolo'gia, L. ; Aero- LOGIE, Fr., Ger. In physics, a discourse or treatise of the air. In physiology and hygiene, the doctrine of the air, more especially with regard to its salubrity and action on organised beings. AEROM'ETER. Syn. Abrome'trtjm, L.; Aerometre, Fr. An instrument used in aerometry. AEROM'ETRY. S^jn. Aerome'tria, L.; Aerometrie, Fr.; Luftmessktjnst, &c., Ger. In chemistry and physics, the art of measuring the air, and ascertaining the mean bulk of gases. AERONAUT'ICS. Syn. Aeronaijtique, Fr., The art of sailing in, or of navigating the air. See Balloons. ^ AEROPHO'BIA. [L.] Syn. A'erophobt]; ; Aerophobie, Fr. In pathology, a dread of air (wind); a common symptom in hydrophobia, and occasionally present in hysteria and phre- nitis. AEROSTAT'ICS. Syn. Aebgstat'ica, L.; Aerostatique, Fr. That branch of pneuma- tics which treats of air, and other elastic fluids, in a state of rest. AEROSTA'TION. [Eng., Fr:] Syn. Aeros- ta'tio, L. The art of weighing the air; appr., aerial suspension and navigation. See Bal- loons. ^RU'GK) (§-). [L.] The rust of brass, bronze, or copper; verdigris. JES'CULINE (-lin). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. ^s- ctjli'na, L. ; Es'culine, Eng., Fr. A white crystalline powder obtained from the bark of oes cuiushippocas'tinum (Linn.) or horse-chestnut tree. It is basic; and, when dissolved in water, it possesses the property of communi- cating a bluish opalescence to a very large quantity of that fluid. It is said to consist of extractive matter and lime. See Alkaloids. .ZE'THER. See Ether. JETHE"REA (-there-). [L. pL] Ethers; one of the divisions of the London Pharma- copoeia. .ffiSTHET'ICS (ez-). Syn. .^sthet'ica, L. Medicines or agents which affect sensation. See Anaesthetics and Htper^sthetics. .E'THIOPS. See Ethiops. ^'THOGEN (-jen). A compound of nitro- gen with boron, remarkable for the intense luminosity which itself, and its combinations with the metals, exhibit in the oxidising flame of the blowpipe. Prep. (Balmain.) Take of anhydrous boracic acid, in powder, 7 parts ; melon, 9 parts ; place the mixture in a crucible lined with charcoal.