457 CLAY—CLOVE. i ! POTAS3A to clear their liquors; especially j those that are expected to sparkle in the I glass, as cordial gin^ &c. For this purpose, a j little sugar of lead, dissolved in water, is first I mixed up with the fluid, and afterwards a 1 little more than ^ its weight of sulphate of ! potassa, also dissolved in water, is added, and I the liquor is again ‘roused’ up. By stand- I ing, the sulphate of lead, formed by this I mixture, subsides, and leaves the liquor clear. ' Bullock’s blood is used in the same way as I isinglass or white of eggs, for fining red wines, \ leer, and porter. Lime, alum, alcohol, the I ACIDS, and HEAT, act by curdling or coagu- I lating the feculencies, and thus, by increasing I their density, induce their subsidence. Plas- j TEE OF Paeis acts, partly like the above, and partly like albumen, or gelatine, by enveloping i and forcing down the suspended matter, i Sand is often sifted over liquors (especially j cordials and syrups), for the simple purpose of , acting by its gravity, but appears to be quite . useless, as it sinks too rapidly. The juices of I plants are clarified by heat, which coagulates 1 the albumen they contain. Mael or clay is I frequently used to clear cider and perry. A 1 strip of isinglass is generally employed to 1 clarify coffee. See Wine, Beewing, Coe- DiAL, Coffee, Finings, Infusion, &c. I CLAY. The characteristic constituent of , clay is alumina, the oxide of the metal alu~ I minium. Clay is formed from the disinte- I gration of felspathic rocks, by the combined j action of air and water. Its plasticity, when I in the hydrated condition, and its capability ; of being made hard by heat, are properties i which render it available for many useful I purposes. The purest kind of clay is kaolin, I or China-clay, which consists almost entirely I of silicate of alumina. It was found in China; but a precisely similar substance is obtained i from deposits in Cornwall and some parts of France. Pipe clay, a white clay nearly free from iron, is found in large quantity in the island of Purbeck. Pottee’s clay is found I in many parts of Britain; that of Devonshire I and Dorsetshire is much valued. Beick clay contains varying proportions of iron; hence the different colours of the bricks used in difterent counties. See Aluminium, Ful- lee’s-eaeth, Ochee, &c. CLEANTNG. In domestic economy, the best way to clean a house is to keep it clean by a daily attention to small things, and not allow I it to get into such a state of dirtiness and I disorder as to require great and periodical i cleanings. Some mistresses, and also some I servants, seem to have an idea that a house ! should undergo ‘regular cleanings,’ or great ‘ washing and scrubbing matches,’ once every I three or six months, on which occasions the I house is turned almost inside out, and made I most uncomfortable. AU this is bad economy, i and indicates general slovenliness of habits. I (Chambers.) For hints upon cleaning, see I Caepets, Clothes, Ac. CLEAN’LINESS. See Ablution, Bathing, and Sickness. CLOTHES. Economy and cleanliness re- quire due attention to be paid to every article of clothing, but more especially to those which are the most exposed to dirt and the weather. The following remarks, having reference chiefly to woollen articles, may prove useful to the reader:—If very dusty, hang them on a horse or line, and gently beat them with a cane; then lay them on a clean board or table and well brush them, first with a stiff brush, to remove the spots of mud and the coarsest of the dirt, and next with a softer one, to remove the dust and to lay the nap properly. If clothes are wet and spotted with dirt, dry them before brushing them, and then rub out spots with the hands. The hard brush should be used as little as possible, and then with a light hand, as it will, if roughly and constantly employed, soon render the cloth threadbare. Spots of tallow-grease on the clothes may be taken off with the nail, or, if that cannot be done, have a hot iron with some thick brown paper, lay the paper on the part where the grease is, then put the iron upon the spot; if the grease comes through the paper, put on another piece, till it ceases to soil it. Moths may be prevented attacking clothes, by putting a few cloves or allspice into the box or closet with them. See Clothes Balls, Scoueing, &c. CL0"THING. In our changeable climate great care should be taken to clothe the body effectually; for when the skin is chilled, the blood is determined in increased and injurious quantity to the internal organs, causing colds and inflammations. The ordinary materials for clothing are cotton, linen, woollen, and silk. Cotton is generally employed for under- garments, for which its softness and warmth render it well adapted. Linen is not nearly so warm, but it keeps its colour better; it is more expensive, and although it wears much longer, it is not so economical as cotton. Woollen garments are, in cold and variable climates, almost essential to comfort; the warmth obtained by wearing flannel next the body is very beneficial, and the slight stimu- lating effect arising from its roughness tends to keep the skin in healthy action. CLOVE. Sgn. Caeyoph’yllum (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. The flower-buds of the Cary- ophyllus aromaticus (Linn.), or clove tree, col- lected before they open, dried, and smoked. Cloves are aromatic, stimulant, carminative, and stomachic; and according to some, pos- sess febrifuge properties. They are chiefly used as an adjuvant in compound medicines. A few cloves kept in a closet or box prevent moths or mould attacking furs, woollens, &c. It is a common practice to adulterate this spice in the same manner as cinchona bark. Cloves from which the oil has been distilled, are dried and rubbed between the hands, pre- viously moistened with a little sweet oil, to