876 MAGNET—MALIC ACID. incandescence that follows is over,^ and the whole has become cold, the mass is thrown into icnter, and the insoluble metallic portion collected and dried. Obs. Mr. E. Sonstadt has lately patented an excellent method for preparing magnesium on the large scale. It consists in evaporating a mixed solution of the chlorides of magnesium and sodium to a dry mass, which is then heated with sodium in an iron vessel of peculiar con- struction. Prop., 8fc. In colour and lustre, it resembles silver; its sp. gr. is only 1‘743; it is mallea- ble ; fusible at a red heat; unaifected by dry air and by cold water; burns with brilliancy when heated to dull redness in air or oxygen gas, yielding oxide of magnesium (mag- nesia) ; inflames spontaneously in chlorine, yielding ciilokide of magnesium; it dissolves in the acids with the evolution of hydrogen gas, and pure salts of magnesia result. Chlo"ride of Magnesium. Sgn. Mueiate OF MAGNESIA; MaGNESIJE nYDEOCHLOEAS, Magnesii chloeidum, L. Prep. (Liebig.) By dissolving magnesia in hydrochloric acid, evaporating to dryness, adding an equal weight of hydrochlorate of ammonia, projecting the mixture into a red-hot platinum crucible, and continuing the heat till a state of tranquil fusion is attained. On cooling, it forms a transparent, colourless, and very deliquescent mass, wdiich is anhydrous, and soluble in alcohol. Obs. Without the addition of the chloride of ammonium, it is impossible to expel the last portion of the w^ater, without at the same time driving ofi'the chlorine, in which case nothing but magnesia is left. The fused mass should be poured out on a clean stone, and when solid, broken into pieces, and at once trans- ferred to a warm, dry bottle. The P. Cod. orders the hydrochloric solution to be evapo- rated to the sp. gr. 1-384, and to be put, whilst still hot, into a wide-mouthed flask to crystal- lize. Pose. 1 to 4 dr.; as a laxative. SuVphuret of Magnesium. Syn. Sulphide OF magnesium ; Magnesii sulphueetum, L. Prep. Calcined magnesia, 5 parts; sulphur, 4 parts; fuse together in a covered crucible. Dose. 4 to 12 gr.; in chronic exanthemata, hooping-cough, &c. MAG'NET. Syn. Magnes, L. Besides its application to the loadstone, this name was formerly given to several compounds used in medicine.—Aesenicalmagnet (magnes aese- NICALIS), a substance once used as a caustic, consisted of common antimony, sulphur, and arsenious acid, fused together until they formed a sort of glass. Magnes epilepsia was native cinnabar. MAHOG'ANY. This is the wood of Swietenia Mahogoni (Linn.), a native of the hotter parts of the new world. It is chiefly imported from Honduras and Cuba. The extract is astringent, and has been used in tanning, and as a substi- tute for cinchona bark. The wood is chiefly employed for furniture and ornamental pur- poses, and, occasionally, in shipbuilding. Imitations of mahogany are made by staining the surface of the inferior woods by one or other of the following methods:— 1. Warm the wood by the Are, then wash it over with aquafortis, let it stand 24 hours to dry, and polish it with linseed oil reddened by digesting alkanet root in it; or, instead of the latter, give the wood a coat of varnish, or French polish which has been tinged of a mahogany colour with a little aloes and an- notta. 2. Socotrine aloes, 1 oz.; dragon’s blood, ^ oz. ; rectified spirit, 1 pint; dissolve, and apply 2 or 3 coats to the surface of the wood, previousl}’- well smoothed and polished; lastly, finish it off with wax or oil tinged with alkanet root. 3. Logwood, 2 oz.; madder, 8 oz. ; fustic, 1 oz. ; water, 1 gall.; boil 2 hours, and apply it several times to the wood boiling hot; when dry, slightly brush it over with a solution of pearlash, 1 oz., in water, 1 quart; dry, and polish as before. 4. As the last, hut using a decoction of log- wood, 1 lb., in water, 5 pints. The tint may be brightened by adding a little vinegar or oxalic acid, and darkened by a few grains of copperas. Stains and spots may be taken out of mahogany furniture with a little aquafortis or oxalic acid and water, by rubbing the part with the liquid, by means of a cork, till the colour is restored; observing afterwards to well wash the wood with water, and to dry it and polish it as before. MAIZE. Syn. Indian coen. The seeds of Zea Mays (Linn.). Like the other corn plants, it belongs to the Grass family {Qraminacece), and has albuminous grains sufficiently large and farinaceous to be ground into flour. Maize is extremely nutritious, and although it is poorer in proteine matter than wheat, it is, of all the cereal grains, the richest in fatty oil, of w-hich it contains about 9g. (Dumas and Payen.) It is remarkable for its fattening quality on animals, but is apt to excite slight diarrhoea in those unaccustomed to its use. Its meal is the ‘ polenta’ of the shops. The peculiar starch prepared from it is known as ‘ COEN FLOUE,’ ‘MAizENA,’ &c. In America, the young ears are roasted and boiled for food. MALAG'MA. In pharmacy, a poultice or emollient application. MALAMTC ACID. See Aspaetic Acid. MAL'AMIDE. See Aspaeagine. MALETC ACID. Syn. Malajic acid. A peculiar acid obtained by distilling malic acid. A solution of maleic acid passes over into the receiver, from which crystals may be obtained by evaporation. It is soluble in water, alcohol, and ether, and possesses a sour taste. Heat converts it into FUMAEIC ACID. MA'LIC ACID. Syn. Acidum malicum, L. This acid exists in the juice of many fruits and