TINNING—TINCTURE. 1276 TIN'NING. Proc. 1. Plates or vessels of brass or copper, boiled with a solution of stannate of potassa, mixed with turnings of tin, become, in the course of a few minutes, covered with a firmly attached layer of pure tin, 2. A similar effect is produced by boiling the articles with tin filings and caustic alkali or creayn of tartar. Obs. By either of the above methods chemi- cal vessels made of copper or brass may be easily and perfectly tinned. TIN'CAL. See Borax. TINCTURE. Syn. Tinctrea, L.; Tein- TUEE, Fr. Tinctures (tincture; alcooles, ALCOOLATUEEs) are solutions of the active principles of bodies, obtained by digesting [ them in alcohol more or less dilute. Ethereal i TINCTURES (tINCTURJE ^THEEE^; ETHEEOLES, ETHEEOLATUEES) are similar solutions pre- pared with ether. The merit of having in- vented tinctures is usually assigned to Arnoldus de Villa Nova, who was Professor of Medicine at Montpellier, about the end of the 13th century. He was certainly the first person who systematically employed alcohol for the purpose of extracting the active principles of vegetable matter. Prep. “ Tinctures are usually prepared by reducing the solid ingredients to small frag- ments, coarse powder, or fine powder, mace- rating them for 7 days, or longer, in proof spirit or rectified spirit, straining the solution through linen or calico (or paper), and finally i expressing the residuum strongly, to obtain j what fluid is still retained in the mass. They are also advantageously prepared by the method of displacement or percolation.’’ (Ph. E.) “ All tinctures should be prepared in closed | glass (or stoneware) vessels, and be shaken i frequently durin^the process of maceration.” (Ph. L.) Cooper’s patent jars are very con- venient for the preparation of tinctures, as they are made with wide mouths, large enough to admit the hand, and yet may be closed in an instant, with as much ease and certainty as an ordinary stoppered bottle. Tinctures are better clarified by repose than hy filtration, as in the latter case a considerable portion is retained by the filtering medium, and lost by evaporation. The waste in this way is never less than lOg of spirit. In all ordinary cases, it is sufiicient to allow the tincture to settle for a few days, and then to pour off the clear supernatant portion through a f unnel loosely choked with a piece of sponge or tow ; after which the remaining foul por- tion of the liquid may be filtered through bibulous paper in a covered funnel. The fil-1 tration should be conducted as rapidly as possible, for the double purpose of lessening the amount lost by evaporation, and the action of the air on the fluid. Tinctures which have been long exposed to the air frequently lose their transparency within a few days after being filtered, owing to the oxidizement and precipitation of some portion of the matter previously held in solution, a change which occurs even in stoppered bottles. Resinous and oily tinctures, as those of myrrh, tolu, and LAVENDER (comp.), may be generally re- stored to their former brightness by the addition of a quantity of rectified spirit, equal to that which they have lost by evaporation; but many tinctures resist this mode of treat- ment, and require refiltering. Ethereal tinctures are best prepared by per- eolation, and should be both ynade and kept in stoppered bottles. Qual. The tinctures of the shops are usually very uncertain and inferior preparations, owing to their manufacture being carelessly conducted, and refuse drugs and an insufficient quantity of spirit being employed in their production. It is a general practice among the druggists to substitute a mixture of equal parts of rectified spirit and water, or a spirit of about 26 □, p., for proof spirit j and a mix- ture of 2 gall, of water with 5 gall, of rectified spirit, for rectified spirit. In some whole- sale drug-houses all the simple tinctures (ex- cept those that are of a very active or valuable kind, as laudanum, for instance) are made with 1 lb. of the dyy ingredient to the gall, of spirit, irrespective of the instructions in the Pharmacopoeia. Appearance is the object which is alone aimed at, without reference to quality. If the tincture be perfectly trans- parent, and has a good colour, the conscience of the seller and the stomach of t^e consumer are alike satisfied. Assay. 1. The RICHNESS in ALCOHOL may be readily determined by Brande^s method of ALCOHOLOMETRY {g, a, page 73); but more ac- curately, by the method of M. Gay-Lussac {a, page 70). That of tinctures containing sim- ple extractive, saccharine, or like organic matter, in solution, may be approximately found from the boilmg-point, or from the tem- perature of the vapour of the boiling liquid. (See b and c,page'71.) 2. The QUANTITY of SOLID MATTER per cent. may be ascertained by evaporating to dryness 100 grains-measure, in a weighed capsule, by the heat of boiling water. 3. The QUANTITY of the inoeedients used in the preparation of tinctures may be inferred from the weight last found, reference being had to the known per-centage of extract which the substances employed yield to spirit of the strength under examination. When the ingredients contain alkaloids, or consist of saline or mineral matter, an assay may be made for them. Uses, ^c. Tinctures, from the quantity of alcohol which they contain, are necessarily administered in small doses, unless in cases where stimulants are indicated. The most important and useful of them are those that contain very active ingredients, such as the tincture of opium, foxglove, HEMLOCK HENBANE, &c. In many instances the solvent,