782 INK POWDERS—INTEMPERANCE. of iodine, if the paper is first slightly moistened hy exposure to steam or damp air. Vi'olet Ink. The same as pueple ink, hut weaker. Yellow Ink. 1. From gamboge (in coarse j^owder), 1 oz.; hot water, 5 oz. ; dissolve, and when cold, add of spirit, f oz. 2. Boil French berries, lb,, and alum, 1 oz., in rain water, 1 quart, for half an hour, or longer, then strain and dissolve in the hot liquor gum arabic, 1 oz. INK POW'DEES. Prep. 1. Aleppo galls, 4 oz.; sulphate of iron, oz.; gum arabic, 1 oz.; lump sugar, f oz.; (all quite dry and in powder); mix, and divide into 3 packets. A pint of boiling water poured over one of them produces, in a few hours, a pint of excellent ink. 2. Aleppo galls, 3 lb.; copperas, 1 lb.; gum arabic, ^ lb.; white sugar, i lb.; all in pow- der ; mix, and divide into twor-ounce packets, to be used as the last. Inlc powders are very useful in travelling. INOCULA'TION. Syn. Inocttlatio, L. In medicine and surgery, the application of poi- sonous or infectious matter to any part of the body for the purpose of propagating a milder form of disease, and thus preventing or les- sening the virulence of future attacks. In this country the term is generally restricted to the artificial propagation of smallpox. See Vaccination. INOSIN'IC ACID. An acid said by Liebig to exist in the juice of the flesh of animals, after it has deposited its kreatine. IN'OSITE. A species of unfermentable sugar, discovered by Scherer in the juice of ilesh. It forms beautiful crystals. INSAN'ITY. Syn. Insanitas, L. Aber- ration of intellect; madness. Dr. Young divides insanity into the following varieties:— 1. Moeal insanity, consisting in a morbid perversion of the natural affections, feelings, habits, inclinations, temper, &c.—2. Mono- mania, or partial insanity, in which the mind is influenced by some delusion, or is only dis- ordered in reference to one particular subject. —3. Mania, or raving madness, in which the reasoning faculty is either lost or greatly weakened and disordered.—4. Incoheeence or dementia, exhibiting in its different stages impaired memory, absence of mental volition or reasoning power, deprivation of under- standing, and loss of even animal instincts and volition. The consideration of this sub- ject belongs chiefly to medicine and medical jurisprudence. See Abeeeation of Mind. IN'SECTS. Syn. Insecta, L. A class of invertebrate animals belonging to the sub- kingdom Annulosa. The true insect is defined as an articulated animal, having 6 legs, 2 antennae, 2 compound eyes; a small brain at the anterior extremity of a double medullary cord; its circulation is effected by a pulsating dorsal vessel, provided with numerous valves; its respiration by tracheae, which form 2 j lateral trunks, and ramify through the body. The generation of insects is oviparous. There are two distinct sexes. The adult state is attained through a series of metamorphoses. In general, every insect possesses 2 pairs of wings; the trunk in the adult animal is usually composed of 3 chief parts—the head, thorax, and abdomen. The trunk of an insect may also be described as consisting of 13 seg- ments, of which 1 constitutes the head, 3 constitute the thorax, and 9 the abdomen. Insects are arranged in the following orders : —1. Hymenoptera, including bees, wasps, ich- neumon-flies, &c. — 2. Coleoptera, including all those kinds commonly called beetles.—3. Neuroptera, dragon-flies, ephemera?, white ants, &c.—4. Strepsiptera, the stylops, &c.— 5. Lepidoptera, the butterflies and moths.—6. Dipt era, the house-fly and other 2-winged insects.—7. Orthoptera, crickets, grasshoppers, locusts, earwigs, &c.—8. Hemiptera, bugs, frog-hoppers, aphides, &c.—9. Aptera, fleas, &c. There are several animals belonging to the classes myeiopoda and aeachnida which are commonly but erroneously called ‘ insects.’ Of these the centipedes, spiders, and acarides, or mites, are well-known examples. Several useful products, as silk, wax, honey, cochi- neal, LAC, CANTHAEIDES, &c., are Supplied by insects. The class includes numerous creatures which are extremely destructive, and others which are regarded as domestic pests. In the articles devoted to these offensive insects various methods of exterminating them are noticed. A powder for destroying insects has recently been introduced into this country, and has been found peculiarly efficacious. This powder, which is known under various names (^ iNSECT-DESTEOYiNa powDEE,’ ‘ Du- mont’s insecticide,’ &c.), is produced by the Pyrethrum roseum Caucasicum, a composite flower growing wild in the Caucasus. The central or tubular florets of the disc are alone employed, and when ground furnish the powder of commerce. This powder, though so destructive to insect life, has no injurious effect upon man or domestic animals.^ See Acaei, Ant, Bee, Bug-, Bites and Stings, Canthaeides, Cochineal, Lac, Pediculi, Silk, &c. INSECTICIDE POWDER. See Insects. INTEMTERANCE. Under this head we refer to habitual indulgence in the use of spirituous or femented liquors, w'hether accom- j)anied or not by fits of intoxication or drunk- enness. The pernicious influence of intoxicating liquors upon individuals and upon society has been so often and ably exposed b}'^ the clergy, judges, and magistrates, and by philanthro- pists of every grade, that it would be folly to do more than refer to it here. Fully one half of the dark or disreputable deeds of those who 1 The method of applying this powder is described at '^age 372, but the nature of the powder is not correctly specified.