677 GALBANUM—GALLIC ACID. tinct dye-stuffs arc known by this name, b>it are distinguished by the adjectives ‘ old’ and ‘ young.’ Old Fustic. Syn. Bois jaune, Fr. The wood of the Madura iinctoria. Its decoction dyes tvoollcns yellow of different shades, ac- cording to the ‘ mordant.’ Alum, iarlar, and spirits of tin brighten the tint; acetate and sulphate of iron and common salt darken it; with sulphate of iron it gives olives and BEOWNS; with the indifjn vat and sulphate of indigo geeen. These colours are very perma- nent. Its yellow turns on the lemon when pale, and on the oeange when darker. 1 lb. of oldfustic will dye 3 to 5 lb. of wool. Young Fustic. Sijn. Yellow fustic ; Fustet, Fr. The w-ood of the Rhus Cotinus or f 'enice sumach. It gives a yellow turning on the green, but its colours are not very per- manent. It is chiefly used in combination with other dye-stuffs. GAL'BANUM. %«. Gum galbanum; Gal- ban um (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. In pharmacy, the “ gum resin of Galbanum officinale'’ (Ph. L.). The “ concrete gummy-resinous exuda- tion of an imperfectly ascertained umbelli- ferous plant; probably a species of Opdidea." (Ph. E.) Its properties are similar to the other fetid antispasmodic gum-resins. It ranks between assafcetida and ammoniacum. Strained Galbanum. Syn. Peepaeed gal- I BANUM; GaLBANUM COLATUM, G. PE.EPAEA- TUM (Ph. L.), L. From crude galbanum, as PEEPAEED AMMONIACUM. Formerly the com- mon practice was to melt it in the dry state, by heat cautiously and quickly applied, and to strain it through a piece of coarse canvas stretched across a w'ooden frame or * horse.’ ^ The ‘ strained galbanum’ of the shops is seldom pure. The following forms are current in the trade for its ^reduction,' as this species of adul- teration is technically termed: 1. Galbanum (true), 9 lb. ; strain as above, then add, towards the end, black resin (clean), 3 lb. ; and wdien the whole is melted, further add of Venice turpentine, 2 lb. Product, 12 lb. 2. Strained galbanum and black resin, of each, 6 lb.; melt, and add, of strained assafa^- tida, 2 oz.; Venice turpentine, 3 lb. Prod. Hi lb. Facti"tious Strained Galbanum. Syn. Gal- banum COLATUM factitium, L. Prep. 1. From black resin, 4 lb.; melt, and add of Venice turpentine, 2 lb.; assafcetida, 2^ oz. ; oils of juniper and fennel, of each, 1^- dr.; water, ^ pint. 2. As the last, adding soft soap, 5 oz. Some- times the small and ‘ w’aste’ of the chests are added to the above to improve them. GALACTOM'ETEE. See Lactometee and Milk. GALL. Syn. Bile ; Bilis, Chole, Fel, L. A bitter fluid secreted by the liver; in part 1 See F11.TU.VTION, page Cll. flowing into the intestines, and in part regur- gitating into the gall-bladder. Its uses in the animal economy appear to be—to separate the chyle from the chyme, to promote digestion of oleaginous substances, and to assist in exciting the peristaltic action of the intestines. The fajces appear to owe their colour chiefly to the presence of bile, since without, they appear of a dirty pipe-clay colour. The gall of various animals w'as formerly used in medicine. From wdiatever source it was obtained, it was believed to be calefacient, desiccant, detergent, discutient, and parturi- facient ; but besides these properties, each va- riety w^as conceived to possess virtues peculiarly its own. Thus, bear-gall (fel ursi) was reputed anti-epileptic; eel-gall (fel anguillarum) par- turifacient ; hare-gall (fel leporis), “ good in cataract;” and ox-gall (fel bovis), “ sovereign against stiff joints, rheumatics, angry ulcers, and stomach colics.” The gall of the bat, goat, hen, hog, partridge, siluris, &c., were also em- ployed as remedies. At the present time ox- gall is the only one used in medicine and the arts. Ox-gall has been recently reintroduced into medicine by Dr. Allnatt and others, and in certain cases of dyspepsia and biliary de- rangement appears to be a valuable remedy. Ceude ox-gall is extensively employed by the scourers of wmollen cloth, clothes reno- vators, &c. It rapidly extracts grease and oil from textile fabrics, without injuring the colour. Sec Constipation, Dyspepsia, Ox- gall, &c. Glass Gall. See Sandiver. GAL'LATE. Syn. Gallas, L. A salt of gallic acid. The alkaline gallates are so- luble. They rapidly suffer decomposition in the presence of excess of the base, and the liquor gradually acquires a blackish colour. The gallates of most of the other metallic oxides are insoluble. GAL'LIC ACID. Syn. Acidum gallicum (Ph. L. & D.), L. The “acid prepared from the gall-nut; in crystals.” (Ph. L.) It may be also obtained from other vegetable sub- stances. It appears to be a product of the oxidation of tannic acid, and probably does not exist re:uly formed in recent vegetables. Prep. 1. (Dumas.) Nut-galls, reduced to powder, are moistened with water, and exposed to the action of the air, in a warm situation (say 70° to 80° Fahr.), for two or three months, adding more water, from time to time, to make up for that lost by evaporation. At the end of the above period the mouldy, dark-coloured mass is strongly pressed in a cloth, and the solid portion boiled in a considerable quantity of water. The solution (filtered w'hilst hot) de- posits, on cooling, crystals of gallic acid, wdiich, after being thoroughly drained and pressed dry between bibulous paper, are purWied by boiling them along with about Jth of their w^eight of prepared animal charcoal, in 8 parts of waler, and filtering, &c., as before.