BARK—BARLEY. 267 5 minutes in watery 5 pints; decant the clear liquid, and repeat the operation with 3 pints more of water ; unite the mixed liquors, which may then be either neutralised with acids to form barytic salts, or allowed to deposit crys- tals by cooling. More crystals may be obtained from the ‘ mother-hquor ’ by eva|.oration. 3. (Ph. L).) Sulphate of baryta, 1-^ lb.; j lamp black, 4 oz. ; as the last (nearly). Prop., uses, Crystals, thin and nearly j colourless plates, containing combined water; i very soluble in hot water, less so in cold water; 5 and rapidly decomposed by exposure to the [: air. It is principally used to form the BAEVt'ic U SALTS, and in organic analysis. Care should ^ be taken in its preparation to expose the solu- tion to the air as little as possible. Sulphu- f EETS of a higher grade may be formed by Ij boiling this compound with sulphur; but they i| possess little practical interest. ^ BARK. [Eng., Dan.] Syn. Coe'tex, L.; Ecoece, Fr.; Baumeinde, Rinde, Ger. The ■* rind or exterior covering of vegetables, corre- sponding to the skin of animals. It consists of the—cu'TiCLE or epiderm'is—cell ulae SUBSTANCE, Containing colouring matter, &c., H and—li'bee, the inner or true bark. The Iasi is formed of woody fibre in great quantity, f intermixed with cellular tissue. At the com- mencement of the annual growth of a tree, the bark separates spontaneously from the 1 wood, in order to make room for the new mat- t ter forming beneath. It thus increases by !' yearly layers, and gradually perishes on the outside, owing to distension, from the growth of the interior portion. Its physiological uses ‘ are numerous and important. It is the de- i pository of many of the secretions of plants, • and it acts as a living filter, separating secre- tions from each other, and allowing a part ol i„them to pass oft' horizontally through the i medullary processes on their way to the centre I of the tree. But its principal oftices appear to j be to act as a protection to the tender wood, i and as a channel for the sap in its descent from the leaves. “ True bark only exists in exogens and gymnosperms; in endogens its place is supplied by cortical integuments, which cannot be separated from the adjacent w^ood, i without violence.” (Lindley.) t According to Liebig, the characteristic in- i gredients found in bark are excreraentitious— N “ substances evidently expelled by the living- organism.” True u'ood yields only '25^ to 2" of ashes ; whilst the bark of some trees give 6, 10, to 15 times more; and these, like the or- ganic constituents, ditter materially in tlieii u composition and characters.^ The uses of different species of bark in me- dicine and the arts are well known. Cinchona- bark is invaluable in fevers; oak-baek liir- nishes the tanner with one of the most im- portant materials of his trade; and the tena- cious fibres of other varieties are manulactured into cordage and textile fabrics. ^ See Liebig’s ” /gr. and, P/iys, efl., p. 171-2. Barks should be collected at that season in which they can be most easily separated from the wood, which, wnth a few exceptions, is late in the spring; because at this time the active principles deposited in their cells are most abundant. Oak-baek, collected in spring, contains,/bwr times as much astringent matter as that collected in winter. See Salts, Veg-e- TABLE Substances, &c. Bark. (In medicine.) See Cinchona. Bark. (In tanning.) See Oak-Bark. Jes'uit’s Bark. Cmchona-bark. Salt of Bark (Essential). See Extracts and Salts. BAR'LEY. Syn. Hor'deum, L. ; Oege, Fr.; Gerste, Ger., Anglo-S. A well-known grain, the produce of several species of the genus hordeum. Hist. The native country of barley, as well as the date at which it was first cultivated, have not been satisfactorily determined. Some authorities ascribe it to Tartary, others to Siberia, and a few to Scotland; but the pre- vailing opinion is that the first of these is its habitat. That it was used as a*bread-corn at a very early period of the world appears evident. It was cultivated by the Egyptians upwards of 15 centuries before the commencement of our era, and is referred to in the Old Testa- ment.2 Hippocrates enumerated three varie- ties of barley (b.c. 420). It was noticed by Menander and Pliny.^ Our Saxon ancestors named the month of September Gerstmonnt or barley-month—“ for that barley which that moneth commonely yeelded, was antiently called gerste ; the name of barley being given to it by reason of the dr nke thereof made, called beere; and from beerelegh it came to berlegh, and from berlegh to barley. At the present time, as a grain-corn, it ranks next in importance alter -wheat. Var., cult., 8fc. Those principally cultivated in England are—two'-rowed, long'-eaeed, or comm'on barley (hor'deurn dis'tichon, Linn.); spring'-bakley, squaee'-b., or beee [h. vidgd're, Linn.); and six'-eowed barley, WINTER B., Scotch BERE or BIGG (/<. hexas'-~ tichon, Linn.). Put'ney, sprat,or batt'ledoee B. {h. zeocriton, Linn.), is another species less frequently met with. Of each of the above there are several varieties. In Spain and Sicily, two crops of barley are obtained in a year; but, in countries so far north as Britain, it produces only one, and is a delicate species of grain. In England it is generally adopted as a succession crop on light lands, following turnips or green crops. (Loudon.) The‘yield’ per acre varies from 28 to 64 bushels, and is usually from 28 to 40 bushels. The avcrrage ‘weight’ per bushel is 50 to 51 lb.; but the best Norfolk and Essex samples weigh 53 to 54 lb. per bushel. Comp. The leading constituents of barley are 2 Exod., ix. 31. 3 “Hist. Nat.,’* xviii. 14; &(*, Verstegan.