370 BROWN PIGMENTS—BRUCINE. hath of weld or fustic to which a little iron- liquor has been previously added. In this way every shade, from moedoee and cinna- mon to DAEE CHESTNUT, may he produced. • 7. Boil fustic-chips, 1 Ih., for 2 hours; pass the cloth through the hath for 1 hour; take it out and drain; add of green copperas, li oz.; good madder, 4 oz.; hoil for a short time, and again pass the ‘ cloth ’ through the ‘ hath,^ until it acquires the proper tint. Beonze- BEOWNS, and every similar shade, may he thus given hy varying the proportions. e. The following are called sub'stantiye or DIEECT BEOWNS :— 1. Decoction of oak-larJc. It dyes‘tt>ooU of a fast hrown of various shades, according to the quantity employed. A mordant of alum brightens it. 2. Infusion or decoction of walnut-peels. Dyes 'wool* and 'silk* a hrown, which is brightened hy alum. 3. Horse-chestnut peels. A mordant of mu- riate of tin turns it on the beonze ; ondi sugar of lead, on the eeddish-beown. 4. Catechu or Terra Japonica. For ^ cot- tons.' Blue vitriol turns it on the beonze, and green copperas ' darkens' it, when applied as mordants. Acetate of alumina as a mor- dant ^ brightens ’ it. The French colour, CAE- meeite, is given with 1 lb, of catechu, 4 oz. of verdigris, and 5 oz. of sal-ammoniac. 5. Sulphate or chloride of manganese. Dis- solved in water with a little tartaric acid, it gives the ‘ bronze tint' called solitaiee. The ‘ stuff,' after being passed through the solution, is turned through a weak lye of potash, and afterwards through another of chloride of lime, to heighten and fix it. 6. Prussiate of copper. This gives a fine BEONZE or TELLOWISH-BEOWN to ‘ silk.' A mordant of blue vitriol is eommonly first given, followed hy a hath of prussiate of potash. BROWN PIG'MENTS. The prineipal and most useful of these are—umber, terra di Sienna (both burnt and raw), Spanish hrown, and some of the ochres. Brown, of almost any shade, may be made by the admixture of blacks with reds and yellows, or with greens, in different proportions. See Bistee, New- castle-black,^ OcHEES, Sepia, &e. Spanish Brown. See Ochees. BROWN PINK. See Yellow Pigments. BROWNTNG. In cookery, a fluid prepara- tion used to colour and flavour gravies, soups, &c. Prep. 1. Sugar, 4 oz.; and butter, 1 oz.; are melted in a frying-pan or ladle with about a tahlespoonful of water, and the heat is con- tinued until the whole has turned of a deep brown; the heat is then lowered a little, and some port-wine (about 1 pint) is gradually poured in; the pan is now removed from the fire, and the mixture well stirred until the ‘roasted sugar' is entirely dissolved; it is then put into a bottle, and ^ oz. each, of 1 Under Black Pigments, page 324. bruised pimento and black pepper, 5 or 6 shalots j 1 (cut small), a little mace and finely-grated H lemon peel, and i pint of mushroom catsup, i added. The bottle is shaken daily for a week, and the clear liquid, after 5 or 6 days’ repose, decanted into another bottle. Rich-flavoured, but expensive. I! 2. As the last, but using strong beer, or water, instead of wine. A glassful of spirit : - may be added after bottling it. 3. Sugar-colouring, 1 pint; salt, 4 Ih.i mushroom-catsup, ^ pint; spice, q. s. Ex- » eellent for all ordinary purposes. 4. Lump-sugar (powdered), lb.; salad- oil, \ lb.; heat as before; then add, of port wine, 1 quart; Cape-wine, 3 quarts; shalots, 6 oz.; mixed spi ce, 4 oz.; black pepper, 3 oz.; mace, 1 oz.; salt, 1 lb.; lemon juice, 1 pint; catsup, 1 quart; mix well. 5. Good spirit-colouring or sugar-colouring and mushroom-catsup, of each, 1 gal.; Ja- maica-pepper, black pepper, and shalots, of each, 4 oz.; cloves, cassia, and mace, bruised, of each, | oz,; boil in a covered vessel for 5 minutes; digest for 14 days, and strain. 6. Colouring, 3 pints; mushroom-catsup, 1 pint; common salt, f lb.; chilly vinegar, (strongest), | pint; spice, q. s. Half a pint of British brandy or rum may be added. Ohs. The above are excellent additions to gravies, soups, &c.; and of themselves form most admirable sauces for fish, meat, and game. Browning (for Gun-Barrels). Prep. The following are current formulae:— 1. Blue vitriol, 4 oz.; tincture of muriate of iron, 2 oz.; water, 1 quart; dissolve, and add aquafortis and sweet spirit of nitre, of each, 1 oz. 2. Blue vitriol and sioeet spirit of nitre, of each, 1 oz.; aquafortis, \ oz.; water, 1 pint; 11 as last. 3. Butter of antimony and sweet oil, equal parts; well-shaken together. To be applied to the iron previously warmed. Obs. The above fluids are rubbed on the barrel (previously well polished, and cleaned off with whiting to remove the oil), and allowed to remain on for some hours, or until the next day, when they are rubbed off with a stiff brush. The process may be repeated, if necessary. The barrel is next washed in water in which a little pearlash or soda has been dissolved, and afterwards well rinsed in clean water; it is then polished, either with the burnisher, or Avith a brush and bee’s wax. Sometimes a coat of tough shellac-varnish is applied. BRU'CEA* (-sh’a). False cusparia (which see). BRU'CIA (-sh'a). See Beucine. BRU'CINE (-sin). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Beu'- ciA, Beu'cina, L. An alkaloid discovered, by Pelletier and Caventou, in the bark of bru'cia antidysenter’ica, and afterwards^ combined ^ with strychnia, in nux-vomica.