1127 POULTICE. I night-soil with clay, charcoal, or gypsum, acle into balls or cakes. Its extensive use I Belgium, France, the United States of Inerica, and, more particularly, in China, ifiere it was first employed, has shown it to he ie most fertilizing and generally applicable I all the numerous substances used as ma- |ires. Unfortunately, the prejudices of En- ishmen lead them to poison the air of their ities and towns, and the water of their rivers, ith a substance which, if rightly applied, 3uld crown their fields with golden harvests, id drive pauperism from the land. POULTICE. Syn. Cataplasm ; Cata- pASMA, L. An external application, gene- lly extemporaneous, used to promote suppu- tion, allay pain and inflammation, resolve mours, &c. I Poultices (cataplasmata) are generally pre- red with substances capable of absorbing uch water, and assuming a pulpy consistence, as to admit of their application to any sur- ce, however irregular. Their curative action ■incipally depends upon the liquids with Inch they are moistened, and the heat re- ined by the mass. With this object, they lould never be heavy, or very bulky, and ould be frequently repeated, and lightly, it securely, bandaged on, to prevent displace- ent. The addition of a little lard, olive oil, or, ill better, glycerin, to a poultice, tends greatly > promote its emollient action, and to retard s hardening. As the continued medication of the part ith warmth and moisture, or with substances jjplied in the moist way, is the principal object ) be attained in the application of poultices, fold or two of lint or soft linen dipped in hot ater, either simple or medicated, and covered ith a piece of thin sheet gutta percha or India- ibber cloth, to prevent evaporation, may be rten conveniently applied in their stead. A ery elegant and useful substitute of this kind sold under the name of * spongho piline.^ ts cleanliness, lightness, and ease of applica- ition, has led to its extensive adoption by the ledical profession. The following formula embrace all the cata- lasmata of the Pharmacopoeias: — Poultice of Al'um. Syn. Cataplasma alt:- ciNis, L. Prep. (Ph. D. 1826.) Alum (in owder), 1 dr.; whites of 2 eggs ; shake them ogether until they form a coagulum. Applied, etween the folds of fine linen, to chilblains, ore nipples, inflamed eyes, &c. Poultice of Bread. Syn. Cataplasma panis, j. Prep. From crum of bread, soaked in hot eater, slightly pressed, and then beaten up vith a little land, butter, or oil. Emollient, iee Linseed meal Poultice {below). Poultice of Car'rot. Sxjn. Cataplasma urcT, L. Prep. 1. Prom the common escu- ent carrot, scraped fine, so as to form a pulp. 2. (Ph. D. 1826.) From the cultivated car- 'oi boiled with a little water, until it becomes soft enough to form a poultice. Anodyne and antiseptic. Used in foul and painful ulcers, burns, contusions, &c. That from the first formula is the more stimulant. Poultice of Char'coal. Syn. Cataplasma CAEBONIS (Ph. L.), C. C. LIGNI, L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Soak bread, 2 oz., in boiling water, \ pint; to this add, by degrees, of linseed meal, 10 dr., and, afterwards, of powdered (recently burnt) charcoal, 2 dr. j lastly, sprinkle on the surface of the poultice powdered charcoal, 1 dr. As an application to fetid and gangrenous sores j frequently renewed. Poultice of Chlo"ride of So'da. Syn. Cata- plasma SOD^ CHLOEINATJE (Ph. L.), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Boiling water, 6 fl. oz.; linseed meal, 4^ oz.; mix gradually, then add of solution of chlorinated soda, 2 fl. oz. Applied to foul ulcers, gangrenous parts, &c. Poultice of Hemlock. Syn. Cataplasma CONii (Ph. L.), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Boiling water, ^ pint; linseed meal, 4^ oz., or q. s.; make a poultice, and on this spread of extract of hemlock (Ph. L.), 1 oz., first softened with a little hot water. Anodyne. In irritable and painful cancerous, scrofulous, and syphi- litic sores, tumours, &c. Poultice of Linseed Meal. Syn. Cataplasma LINI (Ph. L.), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) To boiling water, ^ pint, add, gradually, constantly stir- ring, of linseed meal, 4>\ oz., or q. s. Emol- lient. Used to promote the suppuration or ‘ripening’ of tumours. A little oil or lard should be added, and some smeared over the surface as well, to prevent its getting hard. For small ‘ gatherings,’ as of the fingers, a little chewed bread and butter is an efficient and convenient substitute. Obs. Linseed meal prepared from the cake, from which the oil has been expressed, is less adapted for poultices than that prepared from the unpressed, whole seed. The latter is or- dered in the Ph. L. Poultice of Mus'tard. Syn. Cataplasma siNAPis (Ph. L.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Lin- seed meal and powdered mustard, of each, 2^ oz., or q. s.; boiling water, ^ pint; mix as before. 2. (Ph. L. 1836.) As the last, but substi- tuting boiling vinegar for water. Used as a powerful counter-irritant, stimulant, and ru- befacient; in low fevers, apoplexy, coma, &c., where there is a determination of blood to the head; in deep-seated inflammatory pains, neu- ralgic pains, &c. It should not be left on long enough to raise a blister. See Plastees. Poultice of Pop'py. Syn. Cataplasma pa- PAVEEis, L. Prep. (P. Cod. 1839.) A strong decoction of poppies, thickened with crum of bread. Anodyne. Poultice of Pota'to, Syn. Cataplasma BOLANI tubeeosi, L. Prep. From the raw potato, scraped or grated fine. A popular ap- plication to fresh bruises, extravasations, burns, scalds, &c. Pradier’s Poultice. Syn. Peadiee’S cata-