215 ATKOPIA. solution ’ is carefully separated, and its volatile hydrocarbon is distilled off by the heat of a \vater-bath; the residuum in the retort is now exhausted with water acidulated with sulphuric acid, and the resulting * acid-solution,’ after filtration, precipitated with carbonate of soda ; ' the precipitate is crude ateopia, which is col- I lected on a filter, pressed between folds of ' bibulous paper, and dried; after which it is purified by one or more re-solutions in alcohol, \ and crystallisations, which may or niay not be modified in the manner noticed. The propor- tion of potassa should be about 1 dr. to every quart of the expressed juice. An excellent and economical process. The product is 0*3 to •4§ j of the weight of the plant from which the juice I has been obtained. I 2. (Mein and Liebig.) Belladonna-root (fresh- dried and coarsely powdered), is exhausted by ; alcohol (sp. gr. 0‘822) ; slaked lime (1 part for j every 24 of the dried-root employed) is then ! added to the tincture, and the whole digested, with agitation, for 24 hours; sulphuric acid is next added, drop by drop, to slight excess, : and, after filtration, rather more than one-half I the ^ spirit ’ is removed hy distillation ; Ql little i water is now added to the residue, and the re- mainder of the " alcohol ’ evaporated as quickly ! as possible by a gentle heat; after again fil- i tering, the liquid is reduced by further evapo- I ration to the weight of the i root employed, and a concentrated solution of j potassa dropped into the cold liquid (to throw ; down a dark grayish-brown matter), carefully ' avoiding excess or rendering the liquid in the ' slightest degree alkaline; in a few hours the : ‘ liquid’ is again filtered, and carbonate of po- I tassa added as long as a precipitate (ateopia) j falls; after a further interval of from 12 to I 24 hours, this precipitate is collected and drained in a filter, and after pressure betw^een ^ folds of blotting paper, dried by a very gentle ' heat. purified \y^ making it into a paste i with water, again squeezing it between the j folds of blotting paper, drying it, re-dissolv- I ing it in 5 times its w^eight of alcohol, de- colouring it with pure animal-charcoal, dis- tilling off greater part of the ^alcohol,’ an^ ; evaporation and crystallisation by a very gentle ! heat; or only about one-half the spirit is dis- tilled off, and 3 or 4 times its volume of water gradually agitated with it, the resulting milky liquid being then heated to boiling, and allowed to cool very slowly, when nearly the whole of the ATEOPIA crystallises out after a few hours. The same may be effected by at once * agitating 6 or 8 volumes of water with the ^ alcoholic solution,’ and setting aside the mix- ture for 12 to 24 hours, by which time the ' crystallisation will be completed. This process originated with Soubeiran, was improved by I Mein, and subsequently, with slight modifica- tions, adopted by Liebig. The product is about 0'3^ of the weight of root operated on. 3. (Bouchardat & Cooper.) The filtered ' tincture is precipitated with iodine dissolved in an aqueous solution of iodide of potassium, the resulting ‘ ioduretted hydriodate of atropia,’ decomposed by zinc-and-water, the ‘ metallic oxide ’ separated by means of carbonate of po- tassa, and the ‘alkaloid’ thus obtained dissolved in alcohol, and crystallised. 4. (Mr. Luxton.) The dry leaves of bella- donna are gently boiled, for 2 hours, in dis- tilled water just sufficient to cover them, and the resulting ‘ decoction ’ is strained through a coarse cloth into a large precipitating jar ; this process is repeated with a second quantity of distilled water, and the two decoctions mixed; concentrated sulphuric acid is now added in the proportion of 2 dr. to every ‘ pound of leaves’ operated on, by which the vegetable albumen of the decoction is preci- pitated, and the liquid becomes clear and sherry- coloured ; the clear liquor is now decanted or ‘ syphoned off,’ and, if necessary, filtered; the ‘ filtrate ’ is now decomposed by either passing a stream of gaseous ammonia through it, or by suspending in it a lump of sesquicarbonate of ammonia. The effect is that the liquid turns black, and crystals of ateopia are slowly formed and deposited. At the expiration of a day, or two, the supernatant mother-liquor is removed with a syphon, and the crystals thrown on a filter to drain and dry.^ It may he puri- fied by re-solution and crystallisation, as in No. 1.—Prod. 1 lb. of leaves yields 40 gr.; or at the rate of fully -57g. 5. (Rabourdin.) To the expressed juice of the plant (previously heated to coagulate its albu- men, filtered, and allowed to cool), 1 quart; is added of caustic potassa, 1 dr.; and afterwards, of chloroform, 1 oz.; the whole is then agitated well, and after ^ an hour’s repose, the super- natant liquor is poured from the ‘ discoloured chloroform,’ which, after being washed with distilled water as long as it gives any colour to that liquid, is placed in a small retort, and the chloroform distilled off by the heat of a water- bath ; the residuum is dissolved in a little water acidulated with sulphuric acid, and pre- cipitated with carbonate of potassa, in slight excess; the precipitate is redissolved in al- cohol, and the solution, by spontaneous evapo- ration, yields crystals of ateopia. 6. (Ure.) From the expressed juice of the fresh, or the watery extract of the dry plant, by treating it with caustic soda, in slight ex- cess, and then agitating the mixture with 1^ times its volume of ether ; the ateopia taken up by the ‘ ether ’ is again deposited after repose for some time, and is then purified by repeating the treatment with fresh ether as often as necessary. 7. Freshly precipitated hydrate of magnesia is added to the coagulated and filtered ex- pressed juice, and the ‘mixture’ evaporated to dryness, as quickly as possible, in a water- bath; the residuum is pulverised and di- gested in strong alcohol, and the clear liquid 1 “ Pharm. Jotirn.,” 1854-5, p. 299.