GLAUBER SALTS—GLAZE. 699 Cleaning. Windows, looking-glasses, &c., may be quickly cleaned as follows:—Dip a slightly moistened rag or flannel into whiting, fuller’s earth, wood-ashes, or rotten-stone, in impalpable powder, with which smear the glass, and wipe it ofi“ with a dry soft cloth. This does well when the surface is very dirty. In other cases, a little thumb blue, whiting, or chalk, in flne powder, tied up in muslin, may be dusted on the glass, which should then be cleaned off with chamois leather. This gives a flne polish. Cutting. Glass may be easily cut with a common well-hardened steel file, provided it be moistened with oil of turpentine, or plunged under water. It may also be perforated with a common steel brad-awl in the same way. Glass vessels, as bottles and tubes, may be readily cut or shortened by placing a heated iron ring over the spot, or a piece of loose string or cotton dipped in oil of turpentine and set on fire, and immediately on the with- drawal of either applying cold water to the part.- Glass vessels or tubes thus treated will generally crack round, and may be readily divided into two parts. In this manner a common Florence oil-flask may be converted into an evaporating dish and a funnel. By a little practice a crack may be led in almost any direction, or a new one made, by the point of a red-hot poker or a spring coal (an ignited crayon of prepared charcoal). The parts may then be separated by a little force or a smart rap, and the divided edges smoothed by the flame of a blowpipe, or by grinding them with powdered emery and water on a flat stone. In this way many broken articles in glass may be converted into others scarcely less useful. Etching on glass has been already noticed under the head of Etching.^ Geinding. This, on the large scale, like glass-cutting, forms a distinct occupation. On the small scale, glass may be roughed or ground by friction with powdered emery and water and a flat rubber of wood; care being taken that the article, if a plate, is laid on a perfectly flat surface, or, if hollow, is sup- ported by a core of cement or plaster. The frosted appearance of ground glass is given to the panes of windows by gently dab^bing the glass over with a piece of glazier’s putty, stuck on the ends of the fingers. When applied with a light and even touch, the resemblance is considerable. Another method is to dab the glass over with thin white paint, or flour paste, by means of a brush, but the effect is much inferior to the above. Packing glass. Tliis subject will be con- sidered under the general head of Packing. Weiting on glass may be performed by a piece of French chalk or crayons prepared for the purpose; or even with a common pen held nearly perpendicular. Indian ink, or, when the article will be exposed to damp, ' See fage 690. shell-lac ink or varnish, thickened with a little vermilion or lamp black, is best adapted to this purpose. Common ink is not sufficiently opaque. Glass. This term was applied by the older chemists to various substances to which a vi- treous appearance has been given by heat. Thus, we have ‘ glass oe antimony,’ ‘ ghIss OF BOEAX,’ &c. It is now obsolete. Pow'dered Glass. Syn. Viteum pulveei- SATUM, L. Prep. Heat the glass red hot, throw it into cold water, dry, and powder it. Used to filter acids, and glued upon paper as a polishing powder; also to wear down corns upon the feet, after the feet have been well soaked, and dried. Sol'uble Glass. Syn. Watee glass; Vi- teum SOLUBILE, L. An impure alkaline silicate. Prep. 1. Silica, 1 part; carbonate of potassa or of soda, 2 parts; fused together. 2. (Dobereiner.) Carbonate of soda (dry), 54 parts; carbonate of potassa (dry), 70 parts; silica, 192 parts; as last. Soluble in boiling water, yielding a fine, transparent, semi-elastic varnish. 3. (Fuchs.) Carbonate of potassa (dry), 10 parts; powdered quartz (or sand free from iron and alumina), 15 parts; charcoal, 1 part; fused together. Soluble in 5 or 6 times its weight of boiling water; and the filtered solution, evaporated to dryness, yields a transparent glass, permanent in the air. 4. From carbonate of soda, 8 parts; quartz, 15 parts ; charcoal, 1 part. Uses, 8fc. Soluble glass, in solution, has been used to render textile fabrics less com- bustible, as a varnish to preserve stone, and as a ‘ vehicle ’ in fresco-painting. The soda com- pound (silicate oe soda) is largely used as a ‘ dung-substitute’ in calico-printing, and by soap manufacturers in place of the ‘resinates’ formerly in use. 10 or 12 tons are produced weekly in the district of South Lancashire. The potassa compound (silicate oe potassa) has been recommended as a remedy for gouty concretions by Mr. Ure. Dose. 10 to 15 gr., in 6 or 8 fl. oz. of water, twice a day. See Dunging, Vaenish, &c. GLAUBER SALTS. See Soda (Sulphate). GLAZE. Syn. Glazing. Any coating or varnish applied to a surface to render it smooth and glassy; any factitious, shining exterior. The principal applications of this term are the following:— Glaze. In cookery, is commonly understood to be gravy or clarifled soup boiled until it gelatinizes on cooling. It is used as a species of varnish to cover various dishes for the table, and may be spiced and flavoured accord- ing to the fancy of the cook. White of egg is generally used as a ‘ glaze ’ for pastry. Glaze. In the porcelain and earthenware manufacture, the vitreous coating which is so essential to the beauty and utility of potter’s ware. Glazes are either white or coloured. The former, by the addition of the colouring