! 1 SILVEK. 1199 jion, applying a gentle heat towards the end; jlien heat the solution to the boiling-point, oncentrate a little^ and allow it to cool very jtowly; collect the crystals which form, dry hem by pressure {with care) between folds of \ibuIous paper, and at once preserve them from jhe light and air. Dose. ^ to | gr. . Ben'zoate of Silver. Thin transparent plates, I’hich are blackened by exposure to the light, ee Benzoate. [ Bro'mide of Silver. Resembles the chloride jwhich see). Car'bonate of Silver. Syn. Aegenti cae- ; ONAS, L. A white insoluble powder, obtained y precipitating a cold solution of nitrate of ^dlver with another of carbonate of soda. It \i decomposed by heat. I Chlo"ride of Silver. Syn. Mueiate oe iLVEEf; Aegenti chloeidum, A. MUEiAsf, )xis. LTJN^t, L. Prep. Precipitate a solu- ion of nitrate of silver by dilute hydrochloric cid or a solution of common salt; wash the recipitate, and' dry it in the shade. Dose. to 3 gr., thrice daily; in epilepsy, chronic yseutery, cholera, diarrhoea, &c. Dr. Perry egards it as preferable to the nitrate. When ^ased, chloride of silver forms hoen SILVEE, he ‘ LUNA COENEA* of the older writers. Cy'anate of Silver. From solution of cyanate f potassa and solution of nitrate of silver. ('he salt precipitates as an insoluble white jowder. I Cy'anide of Silver. Syn. Hydeoctanate F SILVEEf, CyANUEET OF S.f; AEGENTI CY- NIDUM, L. Prep. Add dilute hydrocyanic j cid to a solution of nitrate of silver, as long ;s a precipitate falls; wash this with distilled \^ater, and dry it. j Prop., 8fc. Cyanide of silver is a white I'Owder, soluble in ammonia, and decomposed y contact with vegetable substances; light urns it violet-coloured. Dose, to | gr.; a syphilis, &c. It has been proposed as a ource of hydrocyanic acid. (Everitt.) Pul'minate of Silver. (See page 672.) Hyposul'phate of Silver. A soluble, crystal- [izable salt, permanent in the air. See Hyfo- ULPHUEic Acid. Hyposul'phite of Silver. Syn. Aegenti jiYPosuLPHis, L. A white substance, inso- luble in water, and very prone to decomposi- |ion. It is very soluble in the alkaline hypo- jUlphites, forming compounds possessing an intensely sweet taste. See Hyfosulphueous ilCID. ' I'odate of Silver. Syn. Aegenti iodas, \j. See>IoDATE and Iodic Acid. ! I'odide of Silver. Syn. Aegenti iodidum, i. lODUEETUMf, L. Prep. Precipitate a olution of nitrate of silver with another of odide of potassium; wash the precipitate with listilled water, and dry it in the shade. Pale greenish-yellow; insoluble in water and in iquor of ammonia; soluble in a solution of •yposulphite of soda. Used in some of the '>ench hospitals in the stomach affections of scrofulous subjects; also in epilepsy. Dose. T5 to 1 gr. Leaf Silver. Syn. Aegentum foliatum, A. IN LIBELLIS, L. As LEAF GOLD; but it cannot be reduced to an equally attenuated state as that metal, being fully -njaggo an inch in thickness. Used by dentists, and for silvering. Nick'el Silver. See Geeman Silvee. Ni'trate of Silver. Syn. Aegenti niteas, L. This article is found in commerce under two forms:— 1. Ceystallized (Aegenti niteatis ceys- TALLI—Ph. D. 1826). Prep. By dissolving grain silver in nitric acid diluted with about twice its weight of water, evaporating the so- lution until it is strong enough to crystallize on cooling, and then allowing it to cool very slowly. Colourless, transparent, anhydrous rhombic prisms or tables; soluble in an equal weight of cold and in half their weight of boiling water; soluble in alcohol; fuse when heated, and at a higher temperature suffer decomposition; blackened by light, and by contact with organic substances. Its solution in distilled water is not sensibly darkened by light, in the absence of organic matter. Used for solutions, and in photography. 2. Fused (Lunae caustic ; Aegenti ni- teas—Ph. L. & E., A. N. FUSUM—Ph. D., CaUSTICUM LUNAEESf, LAPIS INFEENALISf). Prep. (Ph. D.) Refined silver, 3 oz.; pure nitric acid, 2 fl. oz.; distilled water, 5 fl. oz.; mix in a glass flask, and apply a gentle heat until the metal is dissolved; transfer the solu- tion to a porcelain capsule (or a large porcelain crucible), decanting it off a heavy black pow- der which appears at the bottom of the flask, and, having evaporated it to dryness, raise the heat (in a dark room) until the mass liquefies; then pour it into a brass mould {iron moulds— Ph. E. & Ph. L. 1836), furnished with cylin- drical cavities of the size of a goose-quill, and which then admits of being opened by a hinge; preserve the concreted salt in well-stopped bottles, impervious to the light. The formulae of the Ph. E. & Ph. L. 1836 are similar. Obs. In preparing this salt, care should be had that the silver is free from copper. Puee NiTEATE OF SILVEE may, however, be prepared from silver containing copper, by evaporating the nitric solution to dryness, and cautiously heating the mixed nitrates to fusion. A small portion of the melted mass is examined from time to time, until a little dissolved in water, and treated with ammonia in excess, ceases to strike a blue colour. When this point is ar- rived at, the fused nitrate is allowed to cool, when it is redissolved in water, filtered or decanted from the insoluble black oxide of copper, and evaporated in the usual way. The heat employed in preparing the fused NITEATE should not exceed 420° Fahr., and the fusion should be effected completely, but with moderate expedition, to prevent loss of nitric acid. Formerly, a mass of well-tempered