726 HANDS—HEADACHE. A ham of 14 lb. will take about 4 hours, one of 16 lb. Avill take hours, anti one of 20 lb. about 5| hours, to dress it properly. “ If it is an old ham, it should he soaked for 12 hours previously.” (Soyer.) Pres. Most grocers and dealers in hams enclose them, alter being smoked, in canvas, for the purpose of defending them from the attacks of the little insect, the Dermestes lar- darius, which, by laying its eggs in them, soon fills them with its larvae or maggots. This trou- blesome and expensive process may be alto- gether superseded by the use of pyroligneous acid, applied by means of a painter’s brush. HANDS. Dirty and coarse hands are no less the marks of slothfnlness and low breed- ing, than clean and delicate hands are those of cleanliness and gentility. To promote the softness and ivhiteness of the skin, mild emol- lient soaps, or those abounding in oil, should alone be used, by which means chaps and chil- blains will generally be avoided. The coarse, strong kinds of soap, or those abounding in alkali, should for a like reason be rejected, as they tend to render the skin rough, dry, and brittle. The immersion of the hands in alka- line lyes, or strongly acidulated w^ater, has a like effect. When the hands are very dirty, a little good soft soap may be used with w'arm Avater, which Avill rapidly remove oily and greasy matter. Fruit and ink stains may be taken out by immersing the hands in water slightly acidulated Avith oxalic acid or a feiv drops of oil of vitriol, or to which a little pearl- ash or chloride of lime has been added; ob- serving afterAvards to well rinse them in clean Avater, and not to touch them Avith soap for some hours, as any alkaline matter Avill bring back the stains, after their apparent removal by all the aboA'e substances, except the last. The use of a little chloride of lime and warm water, or Goivland’s lotion, imparts a delicate Avhiteness to the skin; but the former should be only occasionally used, and should be Avell Avashed off Avith a little clean water to remove its odour. Glycerine em- j)loyed in the same manner renders the skin soft, Avhite, and supple. The use of a little sand or powdered pumice stone Avith the soap, AA’ill generally remove the roughness of the skin frequently induced by exposure to cold. The hands may be preserved dry, for delicate Avork, by rubbing a little club moss (lycopo- dium), in fine powder, over them. A small quantity of this substance sprinkled over the surface of a basin of Avater will permit the hand to be plunged to the bottom of the basin Avithout its becoming wet. HANGTNG. In cases of suspended anima- tion from hanging, the assistance must be prompt and energetic. The body, on its discover^", should be instantly relieved from the state of suspension and all pressure about the throat. The remedial treatment chiefly consists, in the severer cases, in cup])ing the temples or open- ing the jugular YtiUj, and so relieving the head of the blood Avhich is accumulated in its superficial veins in consequence of strangula- tion. When the body is cold, friction, and the other means used for restoring the animal heat in droAvned persons, should be resorted to. See Asphyxia and Deowning. HAED'NESS. Compactness; solidity ; the poAver of resisting abrasion. Mineral sub- stances are frequently distinguished and iden- tified by their relative hardness. This is as- certained by their power to scratch or be scratched by one another. A valuable table on this subject Avill be found in the article on Gems. HAR'MALINE. Syn. Haemalina. An alkaloid, forming yelloAV-broAvn crystals, dis- covered by Gobell in the seeds of Peganum harmala. It has a bitter astringent and acrid taste, is soluble in alcohol, and forms yelloAV, soluble salts Avith the acids. It has been pro- posed as a yellow dye. By oxidation it yields , another compound (haemine), Avhich is a magnificently red dye-stuff, easily prepared and applied. (Gobel.) The seeds are pro- duced abundantly in Southern Russia. HAR NESS POLISH. See Blacking, &c. HAETS'HOEN. Syn. Coenu ceeyi, C. ceevinum, Coenu (Ph. L.), L. The “ horn of the Cervus elephas” (Ph. L.) or stag. Burnt Hartshorn. Syn. Coenu ustum (Ph. L.), Coenu ceeyi ustum, L. Prep. (Ph. L. 1836.) Burn pieces of harts' horns until per- fectly white, then grind and prepare them in the same Avay as directed for ‘ prepared chalk.’ Obs. Finely poAvdered hone-ash is usually sold for burnt hartshorn, and possesses exactly the same properties. Dose. 10 to 30 gr., or more, 2 or 3 times a day, in rickets, &c. Hartshorn Shavings. Syn. Haetshoen EASPINGS ; RaSUEA COENU CEEYI, RaMENTA c. c., L. Obtained from the turners. Boiled in Avater, it yields a nutritive jelly. Used by straAv-plait Avorkers to stiffen bonnets, &c. HATCHING. See Incubation. HATS. Tliose should he chosen possessing a short, smooth, fine nap, and a good black colour; and sufficiently elastic to resist ordi- nary Avear and tear, Avithout breaking or giving Avay. The hat beush for daily use should be made of soft hairs, but a stiffer one should be employed occasionally, to lay the nap smooth and close. Grease may he removed by means of porous brown paper, and pressure with a hot iron. HEAD'ACHE. Syn. Cephalalgia, L. In pathology, pain in the head. The symptoms of this very general complaint are too Avell knoAvn to require any description. According to pa- thologists, headache arises either from a sym- pathy Avith the stomach and chylopoietic (chyle- forming) viscera, or from a Aveakness or ex- haustion of the poAver of the encephalon. The former may be called sympathetic iiead^a CHE, and the latter neeyous headache. When it attacks only one side of the head it is called HEMiCEANiA. The treatment of the first