1246 SUGAR. syrup is decoloured by filtration through re- cently burnt animal charcoal} the clear de- colorized syrup is next evaporated to the crystallizing-point in vacuo, and at once trans- ferred into conical earthen moulds, where it solidifies, after some time, to a confusedly crystallized mass; this, when drained, washed with a little clean syrup, and dried in a stove, constitutes ordinary loaf, lump, or eefined StrOAE. When the crystallization is allowed to take place quietly and slowly, the product is SUGAE CANDY. The. evaporation at a low temperature in vacuum-pans has the eflFect of diminishing the yield of teeaole. Prop. Sugar requires for its solution only l-3rd of its weight of cold and still less of boiling water; it is slowly dissolved by cold rectified spirit; it dissolves in 4 parts of boiling rectified spirit and in 80 parts of boiling absolute alcohol; it melts by heat, and cools to a glassy amorphous mass (baelet SIJGAe) ; at about 400° Fahr. it suffers rapid decomposition, and fuses to a brown, uncrys- tallizable mass (caeamel) ; long boiling with water increases its colour, and lessens its tendency to crystallize; its aqueous solution dissolve alkalies, earths, and many metallic oxides, with facility; weak syrups take up about half as much hydrate of lime as they contain sugar; when slowly crystallized, it assumes the form of oblique 4-sided prisms, terminated by 2-sided summits. Sp. gr. 1'60 (1-577—Ure.) Pur. Moist or muscovado sugar and crushed lump sugar are occasionally adulterated with chalk, plaster, sand, potato-fiour, and other fecula; but frequently, and in certain neighbourhoods constantly, with starch sugar or potato-sugar. These frauds may be detected as follows:— Tests.—1. Pure cane sugar dissolves freely and entirely in both water and proof spirit, forming transparent colourless solutions, which are unaffected by either sulphuretted hydro- gen or dilute sulphuric acid.—2. Its solution bends the luminous rays in circumpolarization to the right, whereas grape and fecula sugars bend it to the left.—3. (Chevallier.) Boiled for a short time in water containing 2 or 3g of caustic potassa, the liquid remains colourless; but it turns brown, which is more or less intense, according to the quantity, if starch sugar is present. Even 2 or 3^ of starch sugar may be thus detected.—4. (E. Krantz.) A filtered solution of 33 gr. of cane or beet sugar in 1 fi. oz. of water, mixed with 3 gr. of pure caustic potassa, and then agitated with gr. of sulphate of copper in an air-tight bottle, remains clear, even after the lapse of several days; but if starch sugar be present, a red precipitate is formed after some time; and if it is present in considerable quantity, the copper will be wholly converted into oxide within 24 hours, the solution turning first blue or green, and then entirely losing its colour.—5. (Trommer’s test.) A solution of cane sugar is mixed with a solution of sulphate of copper, and caustic potassa added in excess; a blue liquid is obtained, which, on being heated, is at first hut little altered; a small quantity of red powder falls after a time, but the liquid long retains its blue tint. When grape sugar of fecula sugar is thus treated, the first application of heat throws down a copious greenish precipitate, which rapidly changes to scarlet, and eventually to dark red, leaving a nearly colourless solution. This is an excellent test for distinguishing the two varieties of sugar, or discovering an admixture of grape sugar with cane sugar. The jjjggth part' of grape sugar may be thus detected. The proportion of oxide of copper produced affords a good criterion, not only of the purity of the sugar, but also of the extent of the adulteration.—6. (Ure.) Dissolve a little sul- phate of copper (say 20 gr.) in a measured quantity of water, and add to it, in the cold, a solution of caustic potassa, until, by testing with turmeric paper, the liquid appears faintly alkaline, shown by the paper becoming slightly brown. If a small quantity of this test-liquor (previously well shaken) be added to an aqueous solution of the sugar, and the whole boiled, the solution becomes at first green, and then olive-green, if dextrin is present; but if it contain grape sugar, the salt of copper is immediately reduced into the state of orange and oxide; whilst a solution of pure cane sugar undergoes no change, or is scarcely altered. —7. The presence of the inspissated sweet waste liquor {crude glycerin) of the stearin manufactories, now a common adulterant, may be detected by the inferior sweetness and by the moist and * sickly' appearance of the sugar,—8. The specific gravities and crystal- line forms offer other means of distinguishing the varieties of sugar. Concluding remarks.—Refined sugar (sac- CHAEUM—Ph. L,, S. PUEIJM—Ph. E., S. PF- EiFicATUM—Ph. D.), raw Sugar (s. commune —Ph. E.), and molasses or treacle (sacchaei PiEX—Ph. L. & E.), are officinal. The relative sweetening power of cane sugar is estimated at 100; that of pure grape sugar, at 60; that of fecula or starch sugar, at 30 to 40. According to Messrs. Oxland’s method {patented 1849) of defecating and bleaching the juice of beet-root, cane, &c., acetate of alu- mina, formed by dissolving 4 lb. of that earth in acetic acid, is boiled with each ton of sugar, and as soon as the acetic acid is nearly all driven off, a solution of tannin, formed from 1 lb. of bruised valonia and 2 gall, of hot water, is added to the boiling syrup; the excess of alumina is afterwards separated by lime, and the usual method of further procedure adopted. By their second patent (1851), superphosphate of alumina or of lime \s substituted for acetate of alumina, in the proportion of about 6 lb. of alumina, dissolved in phosphoric acid, for each