1090 PITYRIASIS—PLASTER. district, in Shropsliire, [Leicestershire, War- wichshire, &c. d. Cannel or parrot coal. Dense and compact, having a shelly fracture, and taking a polish like jet. Splinters in the fire, and burns clearly and brightly. Wigan and other parts of Lancashire, West Glasgow, &c. The curious deposit at Bathgate, near Edin- burgh, commonly known as ‘ Boghead cannel coal,’ or ‘ Torhanehill mineral,’ differs con- siderably from the ordinary ‘cannels.’—3. Antheacite or stone-coal. The densest, hardest, and most lustrous of all kinds of pit- coal. Burns with little flame or smoke, but gives great heat. South Wales, Devonshire, &c. (See page 177.)—4. Steam coal. Ap- proaches nearly to anthracite. Admirably adapted for steam-vessels. South Wales, Tyne district, &c. The quality of coal may he ascertained by either directly testing its heating power or by chemical analysis. In the investigations undertaken at the Museum of Economic Geology, under the directions of Sir H. De la Beche, and which furnished the materials for the celebrated ‘ Admiralty Reports,’ three dif- ferent methods were adopted for this purpose.^ These consisted in—the determination of the quantity of water a given weight of the coal was capable of converting into steam.,—the quantity of litharge which it was capable of reducing to the metallic state, and, lastly,—its ultimate analysis by combustion with oxide of copper. See Okganic Substances. The- quantity of sulphue in coal is another matter of importance that may be determined by chemical analysis. (See Sulphue.) The presence of more than Ig of sulphur renders coal unfit for the economical production of good light-gas, and more than of sulphur renders it objectionable for use as domestic fuel. In like manner, coals containing mineral ingredients in excess are to be avoided, not merely on account of the quantity of ashes left by them, but for their tendency to vitrify upon the bars of the furnace, and to produce what is technically called ‘ clinkers.’ The presence of much silica or alumina, and more particularly of any of the salts of lime, in ‘ steam coal,’ is, on this account, highly objectionable. For some further information connected with this subject, see Antheacite, Chim- neys, Coke, Fuel, Gas, Lignite, Oils (Mineral), Oeganic Substances, &c. i PITYRIASIS. See Tettees. | PLAGUE. Syn. Pestis, L. “ A typhus j fever, eminently contagious, and attended by | excessive debility; at an uncertain period of i the disease, carbuncles or buboes ensue.” ' (Cullen.) The premonitory symptoms are those ! common to fevers; followed by nausea, the vomiting of dark bilious matter, violent head- ache, delirium, and the other symptoms just referred to. The medical art has hitherto been unable to arrest or control the progress See Watts’s “ Diet, of Chemistry f vol. i, page 1033. of this disease. It is said that when it is in, attended by buboes it runs its course mo: rapidly, and is more generally fatal, than wh( early accompanied by such inflammation “ When they proceed kindly to suppuratio they always prove critical, and ensure tl, patient’s recovery.” See Feyees, &c. PLAICE. The Platessa vulgaris, a we known flat fish, common to both the Engli; and Dutch coasts. Its flesh is good, and eaij of digestion, but more watery than that of til flounder. PLAS'TER. (In building, &c.) See Moii tae. Plaster of Paris. Calcined sulphate of lim See Alabastee, Gypsum, Lime, &c. PLAS'TER. (In pharmacy.) Syn. E PLASTEUM, L. Plasters (emplastea) a external applications that possess sufficie consistence not to adhere to the fingers whi cold, but which become soft and adhesive the temperature of the human body. Plasters are chiefly composed of unctuo substances united to metallic oxides, or powders, wax, or resin. They are usual formed, w^hilst warm, into i-lb. rolls, about or 9 inches long, and wrapped in paper. Wh required for use, a little is melted off the n by means of a heated iron spatula, and spre. upon leather, linen, or silk. The less adhesi plasters, when spread, are usually surround with a margin of resin plaster, to cause the to adhere. In the preparation of plasters, the heat ol water bath, or of steam, should alone be ei ployed. On the large scale, well-cleaned a: polished copper or tinned copper pans, sv’ rounded with iron jackets, supplied with hig pressure steam, are used for this purpose. T resins and gum resins that enter into th(] composition are previously purified by strai ing. After the ingredients are mixed, a the mass has acquired sufficient consistence cooling, portions of it are taken in the ham anointed with a little olive oil, and w pulled or worked until it becomes solid enoii to admit of being formed into rolls. To pi mote the cooling of the plaster it is usual plunge it into cold water, and to expose it the action of the fluid by working it abo under the surface, after which it is well pull in the hands to remove the superfluous wat£ but this process must not on any account practised on compound plasters, containi odorous substances, or substances soluble water. These should be suffered to cool on oiled marble slab, until sufficiently ‘ stiff’ be formed into rolls. Many plasters, as tin; of LEAD and EESIN, derive much of th whiteness and beauty from the treatment ji referred to. White plasters are not, howev always the best; but they are those which ; most admired, and the most sought after trade. Plasters are preserved by enveloping t rolls with paper, to exclude the air as mu