11-8 AMMONIA. liquid into hydrochlorate, by double decompo- sition, is now added, with constant stirring; after which the clear portion is either pumped or ‘ syphoned’ off into a somewhat deep reser- voir or tank, where it is allowed to settle. The ‘ liquid,’ after sufficient repose, is pumped from the reservoir to the ‘ boilers’, and evapo- rated, with frequent agitation, so long as the ‘ sulphate of soda’ now^ existing in it falls to the bottom in granular crystals. These crys- tals are, at intervals, scraped to the cooler por- tion of the pan or boiler, w'hence they are re- moved by copper rakes and shovels, into ‘ draining-hoppers ’, placed near the edges of the pan. The liquor in the boiler is now a strong solution of ‘ sal ammoniac’, but still con- taining a little sulphate of soda, from which it has to be freed by crystallisation. With this object, it is further concentrated, and then ‘ run’ or pumped into the ‘crystallisers.’ In 30 or 40 hours, or longer, the mother-liquor is run or pumped off. The mass of newdy formed crystals is then drained, and slightly washed, with a little w^eak solution of ‘ sal ammoniac’, and next wdth a very little ‘ cold water’; after which they are again w'ell drained. The crude hydeochloeate of am- monia, thus obtained, is converted into the pure salt, by desiccation and sublimation, as before. In France, where this method is very gene- rally employed, the ^sublimation’ is commonly conducted in stoneware or earthenware balloons or bottles coated with loam, of about 18 to 20 inches in height in the body, and either sur- mounted with inverted ‘ cups’ or ‘ heads ’ 10 or 12 inches high, or simply covered with a ‘ tile’, wdien (in the latter case) the sublimate col- lects in the upper part or neck of the balloon, which is above the action of the fire. A num- ber of these vessels are set on the dome of a furnace, which is perforated wdth holes or slits, to allows the heat to pass through ; whilst their necks or heads are sheltered from the action of the fire by plates of iron or earthen- ware, having semicircular indentations on their edges, so that when placed together they form a level surface, through which the necks of the ‘sublimers’ protrude, and lit closely. The fire is nicely regulated, so as to cause tlie salt to condense in the upper and cooler part of the vessels, or in the ‘ heads,’ as the case may he; and great care is taken to occasion- ally clear the necks wdth a skew^er, to prevent choking, and consequent bursting. In Scotland, where a similar process is also commonly pursued, the sublimers, according to Dr. Ure, are generally “ cast-iron pots, lined wdth fire-proof tiles; the condensation being effected in globular heads of green glass, wdth which each of the iron pots are capped.” ^ Ratio. Gas-liquor contains carbonate of am- monia (chiefly), wdth chloride, sulphate, hydro- sulphate, cyanide, sulphocyanide, &c., of the same base. On neutralisation with ‘hydro- chloric acid or ‘sulphuric acid ’, these are con- ’ Ure’s *'J)ict. of Arts, M., 4' M.,” 5tli Edn., i, p. 143. verted into hydrochlorate or sulphate of am- monia, according to the acid used. By sub- limation w'ith chloride of sodium, the sulphate of ammonia is converted, by double decompo- sition, into one equivalent of sal ammoniac, which sublimes; and one equiv. of ‘ sulphate of soda ’, which remains in the ‘ subliming pot.’- A similar change occurs when the solution of the sulphate, prior to crystallisation, is decom- posed by the addition of ‘ chloride of sodium’, or any other chloride. When the ‘ gas-liquor’ is at once converted into sal ammoniac by the addition of hydrochloric acid, the sublimation merely purifies the salt. Like changes occur when bone-spirit is employed. Comp. Chemically considered, this salt con- sists of equal tolfmes of gaseous ammonia and hydrochloric acid gas condensed into the solid form; or, by WEIGHT, according to the ‘ am- monia-theory,’ of— Atoms. Equiv.wt. Percent. Ammonia . . 1 ... 17* ... 31*78 Hydrochloric acid. 1 ... 36*5 ... 68*22 Or, according to the ‘ ammonium-theory,’ of— Atoms. Equiv.wt. Per cent. Ammonium . . 1 ... 18* ... 33*65 Chlorine . . 1 ... 35*5 ... 66*35 Chloride of Am.-\ ^ 5 5 monmm . j Prop., 8^c. The sal ammoniac, of commerce, is found under the form of large white hemi- spherical, cup-like cakes or masses (or in large fragments which are sections of them), possess- ing a tough, fibrous, semi-crystalline texture, and very difficult to powder. It is odourless, has a saline taste somewhat sharp or acrid, and sublimes without either fusion or decom- po.sition. It slightly reddens litmus; dissolves in rather less than 3 parts of cold water, and in about 1 part of boiling water; is soluble in alcohol; and when crystallised from water, under favorable circumstances, forms distinct octahedra, or cubes, usually small and aggre- gated together in rays or feathery masses. By slowly evaporating its aqueous solution, it may be sometimes obtained in cakes an inch in thickness. It is anhydrous. Sp. gr. 1*450. Pur. It should give a colourless solution with water; wholly sublime with heat; and neither chloride of barium, nor sulphuret- ted hydrogen, should affect its solution. A solution, to which a few drops of nitric acid have been added, should not yield a blue pre- cipitate with ferrocyanide of potassium. It often contains sesquichloride of iron, and some- times lead; both of which may be readily detected by the above tests. Its complete volatility may be easily determined by heating,i in the flame of a candle, a small fragment held on the point of a knife. Tests.—1. It is known to be a ‘salt of am-