ARSENETTED—ARSENIC. 211 I from Bermuda; but of late equally fine samples have been produced on the ‘ Hopewell I Estate/ St. Vincent, and, according to Dr. I Ure, with the advantage of being prepared j with the purest spring-water, in profusion, I instead of rain-water. In commerce, the word arrow-root is now I often loosely used as a generic term to indicate j any white, tasteless, and edible starch or fecula. j See Faeina, Food, Jelly, Milk, Staech, &c. ; (also below). Brazilian Arrow-root. Cassava-starch or tapioca-meal. East In'dian Arrow-root. Curcuma starch; I from the tubers of the curcuma angustifolia, or narrow-leaved turmeric. The maranta arundinacea is now also extensively cultivated in India under the name of maranta Indica, and the fecula therefrom extensively exported, j which “ might, with equal propriety, be called East Indian arrow-root ” (Pereira); but this is not the case in commerce, the whole passing as ‘ W. I. arrow-root ’ irrespective of the place of its production. Eng'lish Arrow-root. Potato-starch. Portland Arrow-root. From the under- ground tubers of arum maculatum (Linn.) or wake-robin. ; Tahi'ti Arrow-root. Tacca starch or Ota- jheite salep; from the tubers of tacca oceanica. j AR'SENETTED. Arseniuretted (which see). I ARSE"NIATE (-sene'-y’ate; -sen'—Mayne). I Syn. Ae'senate ; Aese"nias, Ae'senas, L. ; iAeseniate, Fr.; Aeseniksauee salze, Ger. IA salt of arsenic acid. ( Prep. Most of the metallic aeseniates jmay be formed by adding a solution of a soluble salt of the metal to another of an alka- line arseniate, as long as a precipitate falls; which must be collected, washed, and dried. jThe ALKALINE AESENIATES may be prepared Iby adding the base or its carbonate to a solu- tion of the acid, to alkaline reaction, and then [evaporating and crystallising the liquid; or |by fusion, as noticed under A. or potassa. I Prop., 8fc. The arseniates of the alkalies are 'soluble in water; those of the earths and metals insoluble, except in acids. They are *isomorphous with the corresponding phos- Iphates. All the arseniates are extremely poi- sonous. See Aesenic Acid and the respective ^bases. : AR'SENIC (-se-nik). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. AE'SENICKf; AeSEN'ICUM (Ph. D. & U. S.), iAese'nium*, L. ; Aesenik, A.-metall, Ger. ; IAesenico, Sp., It. The brittle, gray-coloured Imetal, or metalloid, which forms the base of jthe white arsenic and orpiment of commerce. I Hist. Metallic arsenic was unknown to the imcients. The dpaeviKov of Dioscorides, the UppetHKov of Theophrastus, and the arseni- \mm of Pliny, was the yellow sulphuret, or prpiinent. The auripigmentum, or ‘paint of mld,^ of the ancients, was also orpiment. The octv^ctpdxr] of the Greeks was realgar. IWhite arsenic {arsenicum album) was noticed i by Geber in the early part of the 8th century; ^ and metallic arsenic was probably discovered by him soon afterwards.^ Its characteristics, and the process of prepar- ing it, were, however, first accurately described by Brandt (a.d. 1773). The poisonous pro- perties of arsenious acid were not generally known for som^ centuries after its discovery. As a medicine it was first employed in inter- mittents in Hungary. Sources. Arsenic is peculiar to the mineral kingdom. The statements of Orfila, Couerbe, and Devergie, that the bones and muscles of healthy animals contain arsenic, has been satis- factorily disproved by the more recent re- searches of Danger and Flandin, Chevalier, Dr. G. O. Rees, the Commissioners of the French Academy, and several others. 'Even Orfila himself has subsequently admitted his inability to obtain arsenic from bones.^ The metallic arsenic of commerce is obtained by roasting arsenical pyrites (mispickel), in earthen tubes, or in tubular -earthen retorts; the arsenic sublimes, and sulphuret of iron remains behind. On the small scale it is pre- pared by sublimation from a mixture of arse- nious acid and charcoal or black flux. Com- bined with oxygen it frequently exists in mineral waters and, in a larger quantity, in certain rivulets and streams. Prep. 1. A mixture of arsenious acid, 1 part; and black-flux, 2 or 3 parts; is ex- posed to a low red-heat in a Hessian crucible over which is luted a deep empty crucible, or an earthen tube, to receive the metal; the latter being kept as cool as possible. Charcoal or even oil may be substituted for black-flux, and a retort of hard glass may be used, with the same result. 2. Aesenicdm pu"eijm, Ph. D. 1850:- White oxide of arsenic, of commerce, 2 dr.; is placed at the sealed end of a hard German- glass tube (^ X 18 inches), and covered with about 8 inches of dry and coarsely powdered charcoal; the portion of the tube containing the latter is then raised to a red-heat, whilst a few ignited coals are placed beneath the oxide to effect its slow sublimation. The sub- limed metal gradually attaches itself to the inside of the tube at its cool extremity. A small charcoal furnace similar to that used for organic analysis should be employed, and the process conducted under a flue to carry off any fumes that may escape. The open end of the tube should be loosely closed with a cork. Prop. Very brittle, so much so that it may be easily powdered in a mortar; lustre, highly metallic; colour, steel-gray or bluish-white; texture, crystalline; crystals, rhombohedrons; sublimes, without fusion, at 356 to 360° Fahr., (and slowly at lower temperatures), in close ’ “ Tnven. of Verily," c. vii. 2 “ Sum of Perfection," b. i., p. iv., c. ii. 3 “Traitd de Toxicologic,” 18K?, i. 438; also see Pereira’s “Mat. Med. S' Therap.," 4tli cd., i. G81; Taylor “ On Poisons;" &c. * “ Chem. Gaz.," v., 1847.