LAMP. 820 in our museums are generally noble specimens of art-workmanship. Though elegant in form, and rich in external embellishment, the ancient lamp was simply a vessel to contain the oil, with a short depression or spout on the one side, in which the wick was laid. Lamps of this rude construction are still in common use in many countries. No important improvement in the principle and construction of lamps as a source of light occurred until a comparatively recent date; the smoke, dirt, and disagreeable odour of the common lamp having previously led to its disuse among the superior classes in favour of candles. At length, in 1789, M. Argand made a revolution in illumination by the in- vention and introduction of the well-known lamp which hears his name. In the Aegand LAMP a hollow tubular wick of woven cotton replaces the solid bundle of fibres, and is so arranged that air passes through it into the interior of the flame. Over the burner is placed a cylindrical glass chimney, open at the bottom, and surrounding the flame at a short distance from it, by which another current of air is made to act on the exterior portion of the flame. In this way a due supply of oxygen is secured, and sufficient heat generated for the perfect combustion of the gaseous products of the oil, and the smoke and soot which escape from the ordinary lamp are converted into a brilliant and smokeless flame. The earliest table-lamps constructed on Argand’s principle had one serious defect— the oil vessels had to be placed almost on a level with the burners, in a position which i caused them to cast objectionable shadows. 11 This defect was almost entirely removed by 1 making the oil vessel in the form of a flatish ring, connected by slender tubes with the burner. The more elegant contrivances, known t) as the MODEEATOE LAMP and Caecel lamp, i which are now so much used for burning colza r and similar oils, cast no shadow. In these the oil, instead of being sucked up by the wick, or descending to it by the force of gravity, is | driven up by mechanical means from the oil- reservoir contained in the foot or pedestal. A j spiral spring, acting upon a piston, elevates i the oil in the ‘ moderator,^ while a little pump ^ worked by clockwork does the same duty in | the ‘ Carcel.’ The burner and wick in each t| are formed on Argand’s principle. , For burning the hydrocarbon oils distilled !i from coal and petroleum, lamps of very simple i construction are used. These oils, in conse- 5 quence of their diffusive character, rise to a ; considerable height up a wick, and therefore ; do not require mechanical lamps. The wicks of : HYDEO-CAEBON LAMPS are usually flat, but sometimes circular. To cause perfect com- bustion, a strong draught of air is created by placing over the flame a tall glass chimney, usually much contracted above the flame. A metallic cap, with an orifice the shape of the flame, is placed over the burner, its use being to deflect the currents of air upon the flame. The reservoirs of hydro-carbon lamps ought always to be constructed of some bad con- ductor of heat, as glass or porcelain. For chemical operations, many forms of lamp are used. The ordinary glass spieit-lamp, fitted with a ground-glass cap, is quite indis- pensable for minor experiments. (See engr. 1.) Stoneware wick-holders are preferable to those of brass, which become greatly heated, and endanger the splitting of the glass. “An effective spirit-lamp may at any time be con- stnacted out of a vial having a glass tube passing through the cork, a cover being formed from a test-tube inverted over the wick, and fitting with moderate tightness on the su-“ perior extremity of the cork.” (Greville Wil- liams.) Alcohol or wood-spirit is the fuel used. The Aegand lamp, when intended as a source of heat for chemical purposes, is so modified as to adapt it to burn either oil.