421 CHAMOMILE—CHAKCOAL. ! i I I 1 i MINERAL WATERS. For the doses, &c., see the respective articles. CHAM'OMILE. Syn Anthe'mis, L. "The flower of the Anthemis nobilis” (Ph. L.) It is bitter, stomachic, and tonic; in dyspepsia, loss of appetite, intermittents, &c. It is an effectual remedy for nightmare; and, accord- ing to Dr. Schail, the only certain remedy for that complaint. Dose. 10 gr. to ^ dr., or more, in powder or made into a tea. Fomen- tations are also made with it. See Extracts, Oils, Pills, &c. CHAMPAGNE'. See Wines. CHAPS. These are too well hnown to require description. Chapped hands are com- mon amongst persons with a languid circu- lation, who are continually “dabbling" in water during cold weather. Chapped lips generally occur in persons with pallid, bluish, moist lips, who are much exposed to the wind in dry, cold weather; especially in those who are continually moving from heated apart- ments to the external air. The application of a little COLD CREAM, POMATUM, SPERMACETI OINTMENT, LARD, or any similar article, will generally prevent chaps on the lips, and chaps and chilblains on the hands. Persons employed in oil and tallow works, or about oil, and who have consequently their hands continually in contact with greasy matter, never suffer from these things. A little oil or unguent of any kind, well rubbed on the hands on going to rest (removing the super- fluous portion with a cloth), will not only preserve them from cold, but tend to render them both soft and white. See Chilblains. CHAR (Potted). The flesh of the Salmo Alpinus (Linn.) or trout of the Alps, common in the lakes of Lapland, preserved by the common process of potting. CHAR'BON-ROUX [Fr.]. See Wood Char- coal {below). CHAR'COAL. Coal made by charring or- ganic substances, such as wood, bone, blood, &c., or, in other words, the fixed residuum of vegetable or animal matter exposed to a high temperature out of contact with atmospheric air. Chemically considered, charcoal, however prepared, is the elementary substance carbon in a more or less pure state. The principal varieties of charcoal may be described under two heads. Animal Charcoal and Wood Charcoal (see below). Animal Charcoal. Syn. An'imal black. Bone b., I'vory b. ; Car'bo anima'lis, C. os'sis. Os us'tum ni'grum, L. The charcoal obtained by igniting animal matter (bone, horn, muscle, blood, &c.) in close vessels. Prep. 1. Commercial (Impure):—On the large scale, two different processes {a and b) are adopted to produce animal charcoal:— o. Bones (deprived of their grease by boil- ing) are broken to pieces, and put into small cast-iron pots, varying from | to i an inch in thickness. (See engr.) Two of these being filled, are dexterously placed with their mouths together and then luted with loam. A number of these vessels are then placed side by side and piled on each other, in an oven resembling a potter’s kiln, to the number of 100 or 150, or even more. The fire is next kindled, and the heat kept up strongly for 10 or 12 hours, according to circumstances, until the process is completed. The whole is then allowed to cool before opening the pots. b. Bones (previously boiled for their grease) are introduced into retorts similar to those used in gas works, and heat being applied, the volatile products are conveyed away by iron pipes to cisterns where the condensable portion is collected. (See page 147, for the uses of this Bone-LIQUOR.) As soon as the process of distillation is finished, the solid residuum in the retorts (while still red hot) is removed through their lower ends into wrought-iron canisters, which are instantly closed by air- tight covers, and luted over. These are then raised to the ground by a crane, and set aside to cool. Obs. The bone-grease, obtained as above, is sold to the candle and soap makers. The boiled bones are then sorted, the finest pieces being selected for making handles for knives, tooth-brushes, buttons, &c.; the next sort is taken for making into bone black; while the smallest and worst portion, forming the re- sidue, is reserved for grinding into manure. The bones having been carbonized, are ground in a mill, and the resulting coarse powder, sorted by sieves into two kinds, one, granular, somewhat resembling gunpowder, for decolo- rizing liquids, and the other, quite fine, to be used as a pigment. The first is sold under the name of animal charcoal; the second, as BONE or IVORY BLACK. The latter and other fine varieties of animal charcoal are fully described under the head of Black Pig- ments. Uses, ^c. This crude animal charcoal pos- sesses the valuable property of taking lime and other saline matter from syrups and other aqueous solutions, especially organic ones, at the same time that it decolours them. Its power as a decolorizer may be tested by adding it to a solution of brown sugar or of molasses, or to water containing part of indigo dis- solved in sulphuric acid. The test should be made in a small glass tube. By well wash- ing and carefully reburning it, this charcoal may be used any number of times. As a de- colorizer and deodorizer, animal charcoal is vastly superior to vegetable charcoal. (See below.) 2. (Purified Animal Charcoal.) Hydro- chloric acid, 1 lb.; water, 1 pint j mix, add bone black, 7 lb.; make a paste; in 2 or 3 days