788 IRON. iron’ and a combination of ‘oxide of iridium’ with ‘ soda.’ It is reduced by hydrogen at a high temperature, and treated successively with water and strong hydrochloric acid, which remove the alkali and the iron, leaving me- tallic lEiDiUM in a divided state. By strong pressiire and exposure to a ‘ welding heat,’ a certain degree of compactness may he given to the product. Prop., 8(c. Brittle, white, very hard, only fusible by the strongest heat of Deville’s gas furnace. In its pure state it is not acted upon by any of the acids, but it is oxidized by fusion with nitre, and by ignition to redness in the air. An ingot of iridium, weighing 27f oz., melted by Deville’s process, was displayed in Messrs. Johnson and Matthey’s case at the International Exhibition of 1862. An alloy of iridium and osmium (artificial or native) has been employed for tipping the nihs of gold PENS (‘EVEELASTING PENS’). Ohio "rides of Iridium. With chlorine, iri- dium forms 4 compounds :—the peotochlo- EiDE (an olive-green powder), formed by transmitting chlorine over powdered iridium, heated to a dull red, or by digesting the hydrated protoxide in hydrochloric acid;—the SESQTJICHLOEIDE, by calcining iridium with nitre, digesting in nitric acid, washing with water, and solution in hydrochloric acid ;—the BiCHLOEiDE, obtained in solution by adding hydrqfiuosilicic acid to the bichloride of iridium and potassium (formed when chlorine is passed over a heated mixture of iridium and chloride of potassium);—the teechloeide, obtained in combination with potassium, by heating iri- dium with nitre, dissolving in aqua regia, and evaporating to dryness. Oxides of Iridium. The peotoxide is pre- pared by adding caustic alkali to the proto- chloride of iridium, and digesting the precipi- tate in an acid. It is a heavy black powder, insoluble in acids. The sesquioxide is best prepared by fusing in a silver crucible a mix- ture of carbonate of potassa and the double terchloride of iridium and potassium, and boil- ing the product in water. Bluish-black, quite insoluble in acids. The binoxide is unknown in a separate state. The teeoxide Is pro- duced when carbonate of potassa is gently heated with terchloride of iridium. A grayish- yellow hydrate, containing alkali. I'RON. Syn. Feeeum (Ph. L. E. & D.), Maes (of the Alchemists), L.; Fee, Fr.; Eisen, Ger. The history of this most important metal extends to the remote past. The discovery of an iron rod in one of the Assyrian bronzes brought to England by Mr. Layard established the interesting fact that this metal was known and commonly employed, where strength was required, nearly 3000 years ago. Rust of iron and scales of iron were used as medicines at a period equally remote. Sources. Iron in a metallic state (native ieon) is of very rare occurrence; but it in- variably enters into tbe composition of me- teorites (meteoeic ieon). Combined with oxygen and other elements, as iron ores, it occurs in nearly every part of the earth. These ores may be divided into the oxides and the carbonates. The oxides may be again divided into four distinct classes, viz.,—(1) MAGNETIC IEON OEE, Consisting of SI'S prot- oxide and -GOg sesquioxide, with an insignifi- cant proportion of silica; (2) speculae ieon, or IEON GLANCE, Composed of the sesquioxide, with a small admixture of magnetic oxide; (3) EED HAEMATITE, consisting of the sesqui- oxide nearly in a state of purity ; and (4) BEOWN HEMATITE, the hydrated sesquioxide of iron. The carbonates are principally two, viz.,—(5) SPATHOSE IEON, the protocarbonate of iron in a sparry condition, and (6) clay lEONSTONE or BLACK BAND lEONSTONE, which consists of the protocarbonates associated with clay and carbonaceous matter. ‘ Swedish iron’ is made almost entirely from No. 1, which occurs in massive beds at Aren- dahl and Dannemora, in Sweden. This iron is of great purity, being perfectly free from sulphur and phosphorus. The titanipeecds IEON SAND found at Taranaki, in New Zealand, consists almost entirely of No. 1 and the metal titanium. No. 2 is found principally in the island of Elba, in the form of rhombohedral crystals. The micaceous ieon OEE found in small quantities in Wales and Lancashire has nearly the same composition, but crys- tallizes in brilliant plates. No. 3 occurs in radiated fibrous masses in difierent parts of the world. It is found in large quantities in Wales and Lancashire, some of the specimens from the latter locality containing nearly 99g of the sesquioxide. It makes excellent iron. No. 4 occurs in reddish-brown masses of a botryoidal form. It is a valuable ore, and is found in England, Wales, and Scotland. No. 5 is found chiefly at Siegen, in Prussia. It is valued exceedingly for producing iron crystal- lizing in large plates, and known in commerce as ‘ Spiegel-eisen.’ No. 6 is the principal ore of the Staffordshire and Scotch iron districts, where it occurs in great abundance, associated with the fuel and the flux required for smelt- ing it. Iron is contained in plants, and forms an essential component of the blood of the higher animals. Prep., Sfc. Iron is only prepared on the large scale, and an account of the manufacture would be out of place here. Those requiring detailed information must consult the elabo- rate works of Percy, Hunt, Fairbairn, Phillips, and other metallurgists. PuEE IEON may be prepared by introducing fine iron wire, cut small, 4 parts, and black oxide of iron, 1 part, into a Hessian crucible; covering wdth a mixture of white sand, lime, and carbonate of potassa (in the proportions used for glass-making); and, after applying a closely fitting cover, exposing the crucible to a very high degree of heat. A button of pure metal is thus obtained, the traces of carbon