CHRYSAMMIC ACID—CHRYSENE. 446 1. Protoxide of Chro'mium. Syn. Brown OXIDE OP c. Prep. From a solution o^protochlo- ride of chromium by adding a solution of po- tassa. A brownish-red powder. This speedily passes to a deep foxy-red, with disengagement of hydrogen. Protoxideof chromium forms pale, blue-coloured salts with the acids, which ab- sorb oxygen with avidity, whilst the metal passes into a higher state of oxidation. 2. Protosesquiox'ide of Chro'mium. The foxy-red precipitate mentioned above pro- duced by the action of water upon the pro- toxide. To make the decomposition perfect, the water with the precipitate should be boiled. 3. Sesquiox'ide of Chro'mium. Syn, Ox'ide OF c. Prep.—a. To a solution of chromate or bichromate of potassa add a solution of the nitrate of the suboxide of mercury, as long as a precipitate forms; this must be collected, well washed in water, and heated to redness in an earthen crucible. b. From bichromate of potassa exposed to a strong red heat, and then washed with water until all the potassa is removed. c. From bichromate of potassa mixed with half its weight of sulphur, and then treated as above. d. From chromate of potassa (perfectly dry), 48 parts; gunpowder, 9 parts; sal ammoniac, 7 parts; reduced to fine powder, and pressed into conical moulds of glass or porcelain, which are then inverted, so as to leave the com- pressed powder on a porcelain or wedgewood- ware slab; it is then set fire to at the apex and allowed to burn itself out; as soon as the residuum is cold it is elutriated and dried. Very bright coloured. All the above are anhydrous. e. (Hydrated.) By adding equal parts of hydrochloric acid and alcohol or sugar, to a boiling solution of chromate of potassa in water, in small portions at a time, until the red tint disappears, and the liquid assumes a green colour; pure ammonia, in excess, is next added, and the precipitate which subsides is collected, and washed with water. f. From a solution of sesquioxide of chro- mium in potassa or soda, a green gelatinous hydrate gradually separates on standing. Prop., ^c. The anhydrous oxide is a rich, crystalline, green powder, insoluble in both water and acids; fused with borax and glass, it imparts a beautiful green colour; the hy- drated oxide is soluble in the acids and in alkaline lyes; with the first, it forms salts which have a green or purple colour. These compounds may be made by direct solution of the hydrated sesquioxide in the dilute acids. The sulphate combines with the sulphates of potassa and ammonia, giving rise to salts (chrome alums) which crystallize in mag- nificent octahedrons of a deep-claret colour. The finest crystals are obtained by spontaneous evaporation. Sesquioxide of chromium is a feeble base. and its salts easily suffer decomposition. It is much used in the manufacture of coloured glasses and enamels, and in dyeing; and it forms a beautiful green pigment. The eme- rald owes its colour to this oxide. Tests. The salts of sesquioxide of chromium are recognised as follows:—1. Caustic alkalies precipitate the hydrated oxide, easily soluble in excess of the precipitant.-—2. Ammonia, the same, but the precipitate is nearly insoluble, —3. The carbonates of potassa, soda, and am- monia, throw down a green precipitate of car- bonate and hydrate, slightly soluble in a large excess.—4. Sulphuretted hydrogen causes no change.—5. Hydrosulphuret of ammonia pre- cipitates the hydrate of a bluish-green colour. CHRYSAM'MIC ACID. Prep. Add aloes, 1 part, to nitric acid (sp. gr. 1‘37), 8 parts and heat the mixture in an open vessel. When the first violent action is over, introduce the whole into a retort, and distil to two thirds; then add 4 parts more of nitric acid, and keep the mixture nearly at the boiling point for some days, or as long as gas is disengaged. If water is now added, impure chrysammic ACID is thrown down, whilst chrysolepic ACID and oxalic acid remain in the solution. The washed precipitate is purified by com- bining it with potassa, crystallizing the re- sulting potash salt, dissolving the crystals in water, and decomposing the new solution with nitric acid, when a golden-yellow powder is deposited, which is pure chrysammic acid. Prop, ^c. Soluble in alcohol, ether, and hot acids; explodes by heat; and forms salts with i the bases called chrysammates. Chrysammate | of potassa, prepared as above, is a beautiful crys- talline, carmine-red powder, and when slowly i produced it forms beautiful small, greenish- j golden crystals. Chrysammate of soda and chry- \ sammate of magnesia resemble the potash salt. Chrysammate of ammonia forms superb dark- green crystals, which give a deep-purple ■ solution. All the other salts of this acid are of great beauty (green, orange, or red), and most of them exhibit a golden lustre under the burnisher. CHRYSANIL'IC ACID. Prep. Indigo (in , powder) is boiled with a highly concentrated solution of caustic potassa, until almost entirely dissolved, and then allowed to cool out of contact with the air; the crystals deposited (CHRYSANILATE OP POTASSA) are next dis- solved in water, the solution filtered, and a mineral acid (hydrochloric) added in slight excess. It may be further purified and ob- tained in crystals by solution in alcohol. ; CHRYS'ENE. A beautiful, yellow, crystalline ' powder, obtained by M. Laurent, along with pyren, by the destructive distillation of pitch. It is insoluble in water and alcohol, and nearly 1 so in ether; fuses by heat, and sublimes un- i changed ; warm oil of vitriol dissolves it, and then assTimes a magnificent deep-green colour; - boiling nitric acid converts it into an insoluble red, resin-like substance.