TOOTH-RASH—TEOPHAZOME. 1290 ammonium escapes as ammoniacal gas, whilst the remainder of the ammonium, silver, and mercury, remains as a firm alloy in the cavity of the tooth. (Redwood.) 12. (‘Silica.’) From levigated -porcelain, plaster of Paris, and iron filings, equal parts, made into a paste with the thickest quick-dry- ing copal varnish. 13. (‘Vienna cement.’) From powdered asbestos, made into a paste with mastic var- nish. 14. (Wirth’s.) From levigated quartz, made into a paste with very thick mastic var- nish. Ohs. It is absolutely necessary for success that the teeth be well cleaned out, and wiped dry, before applying any of the above stop- pings or cements. TOOTH-RASH. See Strophulus. TO'PAZ. See Gems. TOR'MENTIL. Syn. Tormentill.® radix ; Tormentilla (Ph. L. & E.), L. The root or rhizome oi Potentilla Tormentilla. It is astrin- gent and febrifuge, without being stimulant. Dose. 20 to 60 gr.; in agues, diarrhoea, &c.; also, formerly, in syphilis. TOUCH-NEEDLES. See Assatino {page 239). TOUCH-WOOD. See Amadou. TOUS-LES-MOIS. The fecula of the roots of Canna edulis (Ph. D.); intended as a substitute for arrow-root. To the naked eye, it closely resembles the finest quality of potato- starch, but under the microscope its granules are found to be oblong, oval, with a concen- tric structure, and larger than those of the potato tuber. TOXICOL'OGY. See Poison. TRANCING PAPER. See page 1031. TRAG'ACANTH. See page 720. TRANSPA"RENCIES. Water-colour pic- tures on paper, linen, or calico, if executed in non-opaque or glazing colours, may be con- verted into transparencies by simply brushing over their backs with Canada balsam, thinned down, when necessary, with a little oil of tur- pentine. For coarse work, boiled oil may be employed. TRAUMATIC BALSAM. Compound tinc- ture of benzoin is known by this name. See Tincture. TRAUMAT'ICINE. This article, as manu- factured by the Gutta Percha Company, is simply a solution of white and dry unmanufac- tured gutta percha in bisulphuret of carbon. A small portion dropped on a wound, or raw surface, almost instantly forms a pliable, water- proof, and air-tight defensive covering to the part. The only objection to the preparation is the fetid odour of the menstruum, which, however, is lost in a few seconds, or may be obviated by employing chloroform as the sol- vent. TREA'CLE. Syn. Molasses; Theriaca, Sacchari -emx (Ph. L. & E.), L. The viscid, brown, uncrystallizable syrup which drains from moist sugar during its formation (mo- lasses), and from the sugar-refining moulds (sugar-house molasses). The last, accord- ing to Dr. Ure, has generally the sp. gr. I-4, and contains about of solid matter. Treacle is more laxative than sugar, and always contains more or less free acid. It is used as the vehiculum in some of the pill- masses of the Ph. L. See Sugar, &c. German Treacle. Syn. Theriaca Gee- i MANi.®:, L. An evaporated infusion or decoc- tion of juniper berries. It is sweet-tasted, | aromatic, and diuretic. Venice Treacle. Syn. London treacle; Theriaca, T. androchi, L. The theriaca \ of the Ph. L. 1746 consists of 61 ingredients, and contains 1 gr. of opium in 75 gr.; that of the Paris Codex consists of 72 ingredients, and contains 1 gr. of opium in 72 gr.; that of the Ph. E. 1744 consists of 10 ingredients, and contains 1 gr. of opium in every 100 gr. It is prepared as follows:—Take of serpentary root, 6 oz.; valerian and contrayerva roots, of each, 4 oz.; aromatic powder, 3 oz.; guaiacum resin, castor, and nutmeg, of each, 2 oz.; saffron and opium (dissolved in a little wine), of each, 1 oz.; clarified honey, 75 oz.; reduce all the dry ingredients to fine powder, then mix them. The confections or electuaries of CATECHU and opium are the representatives of the above polypharmic compounds in the modern British Pharmacopoeias. The same efficacy was ascribed to the theriaca as to the MiTHRiDATE noticed at page 915. TRI-, TRIS-. See Nomenclature. TRIP'OLI. Syn. Rotten stone; Alana, Terra cariosa, L. A mineral employed as a polishing powder, originally imported from Tripoli, in Barbary. It consists almost en- tirely of silica, and is composed of the skele- tons of minute infusoria, the precise character of which is readily distinguishable under the microscope. TRIS'MUS. See Tetanus. TRITHIONIC ACID. Syn. Sulphuretted HYPOSULPHURic ACID. A Compound disco- vered by Langlois, and obtained by gently heating sulphur in a solution of carbonate of potassa previously saturated with sulphurous acid; the resulting trithionate of potassa is next decomposed by hydrofiuosilicic acid, and the liquid acid concentrated in vacuo. Te- TRATHioNic ACID has been formed by Fordos and Gelis; and pentathionic acid, by Wack- enroder. These acids have not yet been use- fully applied. TRITOXIDE. See Nomenclature. TRITURATION. Syn. Tritura, Tritu- [ RATIO, L. The act of rubbing a solid body to > powder. See Pulverization. i TRO'CHES. See Lozenges. ' TRO'NA. A native true sesquicarbonate of soda, found on the banks of the soda-lakes of | Sokena, in Africa. TROPH'AZOME. A concentrated infusion | of minced lean meat mixed with the fluid ob- J