ELDER—ELECTRICITY. I deposited, as a heavy mucilage falls down soon j afterwards, which materially injures its quality I and appearance. English elaterium is the j best. The foreign is uniformly adulterated I with chalk or starch, and coloured with sap j green. I Dose, -f'g gr. to i gr., formed into a pill with ■ extract of gentian and liquorice powder; as a I hydragogue and cathartic in dropsies, twice a I day, repeated every other day for a week or I ten days. Its use must be avoided when there i is much debility or any inflammatory symp- i toms. Larger closes than i gr. of pure ela- I terium are poisonous. The antidotes are { emetics, followed by demulcents, opium, and j stimulants. EL'DER. Syn. SAMBrcirs (Ph. L. & E.), L. I A large shrub or small tree belonging to the I natural order Caprifoliaceae. It is indigenous j in Europe, and has long been valued for its I medicinal properties. “ The recent flowers of the Sambucus nigra** (Ph. L.) or common 1 elder are regarded as diaphoretic and pectoral, j and a distilled water (eldee-flower water ; I AQUA SAMBUCi) is made of them. The inner bark of the same tree is purgative and emetic, 1 and is used in dropsy; the leaves are purga- j tive; the juice of the fresh berries is made I into wine (elder wine), and is largely used : to make factitious poet wine, and to adul- I terate the real wine. See Waters (Distilled). ELACAMPANE'. Syn. Inula (Ph. L.), L. J The root of Inula Helenium ** (Ph. L.). A I plant of the nat. order Composites. Tonic, diaphoretic, and expectorant. Dose. 20 gr. j to 1 dr., or more, either in the form of powder I or decoction; in catarrh, dyspepsia, &c. It is I now seldom used. ELECTIVE AFFINTTY. See Affinity, n Attraction, and Decomposition. ELECTRIC. Syn. Electrical. Exhibit- ! ing the effects of electricity when * excited^ by friction; pertaining to, derived from, or ■ produced by electricity. Electric. Syn. Insulator, Non-conduc- tor. A substance which may under ordinary ; circumstances be readily made to evince elec- trical properties by friction. Electrics do not transmit, or conduct, electricity; whilst, on the other hand, anelectrics are good trans- i mitters or conductors of electrical action. The most perfect electrics are shell-lac, sulphur, amber, jet, resinous bodies, gums, gun-cotton, glass, silk, diamond, agate, and tourmaline ; dry fur, hair, wood, feathers and jwajoer / turpentine and various oils; dry atmospheric air and ■ other gases, steam of high elasticity, and ice at 0° Fahr. The most perfect anelectrics or con- ductors are the metals, charcoal, and saline fluids. Electric Cur'rent. See Voltaic Electri- city. Electric Eel. The Gynoius electricus, a fish having the power of giving violent electric * shocks’; which power it exerts for killing or stunning its prey. It is an inhabitant of the 543 fresh-water lakes and rivers of the warmer regions of America, Africa, and Asia. Electric Light. See Illumination. Electric Ma"chine. An instrument for the excitation and collection of electricity. The term is only applied to contrivances in which friction is the immediate cause of the electrical disturbance; those which act through chemical force, magnetism, or heat, being known by various distinctive names, as ‘voltaic bat- tery,’ ‘ electro-magnetic machine,' ‘ in- duction-coil,’ ‘ thermo-electric pile,’ &c. In the electric machines now in common use the ‘ electric’ to be excited by friction is either a hollow cylinder or a circular plate of glass. For most purposes the ‘ cylindrical machine’ is to be preferred 4o the ‘ plate machine,’ being the more simple in construction and the less liable to fracture. A description of these in- struments would be out of place in the pre- sent work, W'hich does not aim at giving in- formation that may be easily obtained from other sources. Useful receipts connected with the management and construction of electric machines may be found under the heads Amal- gam (Electrical) and Cements (Cap and Elec- trical). See also Electrophorus. ELECTRI'''CITY (-tris'-it-e). The name given primarily to one of the great forces of nature, and secondarily to that department of physical science which embraces all that is known re- specting this particular force. Many theories respecting the nature of electricity have been advanced for the purpose of explaining elec- trical phenomena. That of Du Fay and Syra- mer supposes electricity to be an infinitely attenuated fluid pervading all bodies, and com- posed of two primary elements, possessing dis- tinct and opposite properties. These elements, called ‘vitreous’ and ‘resinous’ electrici- ties, are supposed to neutralize each other when combined, electrical repose being the result. When, however, a disunion of these elements, takes place, each becomes active. In accordance with this theory, electrical excita- tion consists in a separation and abstraction of one of the elements, leaving the other in excess or uncompensated. The theory of Dr. Frank- lin supposes the existence of a single homo- geneous, imponderable fluid, of extreme tenuity and elasticity, in a state of equable distri- bution throughout the material world. This fluid is assumed to be repulsive of its own par- ticles, but attractive of all other matter. When distributed in bodies, in quantities pro- portionate to their capacities or attraction for it, such bodies are said to be in their ‘ natural state.’ When we increase or diminish the natural quantity of electricity in any substance, excitation is the result, and the substance, if ‘overcharged,’ is said to be electrified ‘posi- tively*; or if ‘undercharged,’ ‘negatively* These theories, and all others based upon the assumption that electricity is a form of matter, have been found to be inadequate for the elucidation of electrical phenomena. At the