MORPHIOMETRY—MORTAR. 927 jiiOEPHiNE, prepared according to Dr.Gregory’s • process. ) Mec'onates of Morphine. Prep. 1. (Neij- ITBAL MECONATE OF MOKPHINE; MOEPHI^ MECONAS, L.) By saturating an aqueous so- [lution of meconic acid with morphine, and I evaporating the solution by a gentle heat, so I that crystals may be obtained. I 2. (Bimeconate of moephine ; Moephi^ I BIMECONAS, L.) Meconic acid, 11 parts j mor- \^phia, 14 parts; dissolve each separately, in I hot water, q. s.; mix the solutions, and either I gently evaporate and crystallize, or at once ; evaporate to dryness. i Obs. Morphia exists in opium under the I form of bimeconate, and hence this preparation ' of that drug has been preferred by some prac- ; titioners. A solution of this salt for medical ' purposes may be directly prepared from I opium, by treating its infusion in cold water with a little animal charcoal, filtering, gently I evaporating to dryness, redissolving the resi- I duum in cold water, filtering, and repeating I the treatment with animal charcoal. The j dose of the dry bimeconate is i gr., or more; and of the meconate rather less. “ A powder 1 is also sold, called ‘ bimeconate op moephia,’ j which is of the same strength as powdered I opium, and is given in similar doses. It is I obviously incorrect to apply this name to a I powder which consists principally of foreign I matter. It is to be hoped that physicians will : not prescribe this powder under the above j name, as such a practice might lead to fatal results, if the prescription should be prepared I with the substance which the name strictly : indicates.” (Redwood.) 1 Mu'Tiate of Morphine. See Hydeochlo- 1 EATE OF Moephine. 1 Nftrate of Morphine. Syn. Moephi.® i NITEAS, L. Prep. By saturating very dilute nitric acid with morphine (in slight excess), I concentrating the solution by a gentle heat, I and setting it aside to crystallize. I Phos'phate of Morphine. Syn. Moephi.e ! PHOSPHAS, L. From phosphoric acid and mor- I phine. As the last. i Sul'phate of Morphine. Syn. Moephia I SULPHAS, L. Prep. Saturate very dilute sul- I phuric acid with morphine, evaporate to one half, add a little animal charcoal, continue the I evaporation for a short time longer at a gentle I heat, filter whilst hot, and abandon it to spon- i taneous evaporation. It is decomposed by I driving off the water of crystallization. Sul- I phate of morphine is included in the Ph. I U. S. According to Magendie, this salt some- I times agrees with patients who cannot bear the acetate. ! Tar’trate of Morphine. Syn. Moephiae tae- I TEAS, L. Prom tartaric acid and morphine. Prep. As the last. : MORPHIOM'ETRY. a name given to the I process of determining the richness of opium in ! morphia. See Opium. MORISON’S PILLS. See Patent Me- DICINES. MORSU'LI. An old name applied to lozenges and masticatories. It is still retained in some foreign Pharmacopoeias. MOR'TAR is the well-known cement, made of lime, sand, and water, employed to bind bricks and stones together in the construction of walls, buildings, &c. In the composition of mortar, stone lime is preferred to that obtained from chalk, and river sand to pit or road sand. Sea sand is unfitted for mortar until it has been well soaked and washed in fresh water. Sifted coal ashes are frequently substituted for the whole or a part of the sand. Hydeaulic moetaes or cements are those which, like Roman cement, are employed for works which are either constantly submerged or are frequently exposed to the action of water. The poorer sorts of limestone are chosen for this purpose, or those which contain from 82 to 25§ of alumina, magnesia, and silica. Such limestones, “though calcined, do not slake when moistened; but if pulverized, they absorb water without swelling up or heating, like/a^ lime, and affords a paste which hardens in a few days under water, but in the air they never acquire much solidity.” “ The essential constituents of every good hydraulic mortar are caustic lime and silica / and the hardening of this composition under water consists mainly in a chemical combi- nation of these two ingredients through the agency of the water, producing a hydrated silicate of lime. But such mortars may contain other ingredients besides lime, as, for example, clay and magnesia, when double silicates of great solidity are formed; on which account dolomite is a good ingredient in these mortars. But the silica must be in a peculiar state for these purposes, namely, capable of affording a gelatinous paste with acids; and if not so already, it must be brought into this condi- tion, by calcining it along with an alTcali or an alkaline earth, at a bright red heat, when it will dissolve and gelatinize in acids. Quartzose sand, however fine its powder may be, will form no water mortar with lime; but if the powder be ignited with the lime, it then be- comes fit for hydraulic cement. Groundfelspar or clay forms with slaked lime no water ce- ment ; but when they are previously calcined along with the lime, the mixture becomes capable of hardening under water.” “ All sorts of lime are made hydraulic, in the humid way, by mixing the slaked lime with solutions of common alum or sulphate of alumina; but the best method consists in em- ploying a solution of the silicate of potash, called liquor of flints or soluble glass, to mix in with the slaked lime or lime and clay. An hydraulic cement may also be made which will serve for the manufacture of architectural ornaments, by making a paste of pulverized chalk, with a solution of the silicate of potash.