1066 PILLS. PILLS. St/n. PiLiTLiE (Ph. E. & D.), Piltoa^ (Ph. L.), L. j Pilules, Sacchaeoles solides, Fi*. Pills are little balls, of a semi-solid con- sistence, composed of various medicinal sub- stances, and intended to be taken whole. The facility with which they are made and adminis- tered, their comparatively little taste, their power of preserving their properties for a con- siderable length of time, and, lastly, their portability and inexpensiveness, have long ren- dered them the most frequently employed and the most popular form of medicine. The rapid and skilful preparation of pills, from all the numerous substances of which they are composed, is justly considered to demand the highest qualifications in the practical dis- penser. The medicinals employed must be made into a consistent and moderately firm mass, sufiiciently plastic to be rolled or moulded into any shape, without adhering to the fingers, knife, or slab, and yet sufiiciently solid to retain the globular form when divided into pills. A few substances, as certain ex- tracts, &c., are already in this condition; but the others require the use of an excipient to give them the requisite bulk or consistence. As a general rule, all the constituents of a pill which can be pulverized should be reduced to fine powder, before mixing them with the soft ingredients which enter into its composition; and these last, or the excipient, should next be gradually added, and the mixture triturated and beaten until the whole forms a perfectly homogeneous mass. It is then ready to be divided into pills. This is effected by rolling it on a slab, with a pill or bolus knife, into small pipes or cylinders, then dividing these into pieces of the requisite weight; and, lastly, rolling them between the thumb and finger to give them a globular form. A little powdered liquorice-root or starch is commonly employed to prevent the pills adhering to the fingers, or to each other, after they are made. Magnesia, so frequently used for this purpose, is unsuited for pills containing metallic salts or the alka- loids, or other remedies which are exhibited in very small doses. Instead of forming the mass into pills by hand, in the manner just referred to, a con- venient and simple instrument, called a ‘pill MACHINE,* is now generally used by the drug- gists for the purpose. This consists of two pieces. The first (see fig. 1) is divided into three compartments :—c is a vacant space to receive the divided mass, which is to be roUed into pills;—b is a grooved brass plate, which assists in dividing the mass into pills; and— a is a box for containing the powder for covering the pills, and to receive them as they are formed. The second (see 2) consists of a bi’ass plate {a), grooved to match the plate h in fig. 1, and bounded at both ends by mov- able projecting plates {b b), containing each two wheels under the ledge of the plate {b); ^nd a wooden back (c), with two handles, See end of the article, 1067. (d d), to which this plate is affixed. In usim this machine, the pill-mass is rolled into !' cylindrical form on the front part of it, b\ means of fig. 2 inverted; the small roll is thei Fig. 1. Fig. 3. laid on the cutting part of the instruinem (1, b), and divided by passing fig. 2 over it the little wheels enabling the latter to rui easily on the brass plate which forms th( margin of the bed of the machine. The pills thus formed, are then drawn forward on to th( smooth bed on which the mass was first rolled and receive a finishing turn or two with tht smooth side of the “ cutter,” by which the^ are rendered more nearly spherical. They are lastly, thrown over into 1, c, ready to be tran.' ferred to the pill-box. The nature of the excipient should be suitec to that of the active ingredients in pills, a: well as in all other forms of medicine. Sof: ' EXTEACTS, and other substances of a like eba ' racter, may be rendered more consistent h the addition of any simple powder, as that o liquorice or sugar. Vegetable powhees art generally beaten up with syrup or treacle, an( HEAVY POWDEES with conserve of roses o: extract of liquorice. Castile soap (made o olive oil and soda) and medicinal soft sooj (made of olive oil and potash) are commonh employed for patty and eesinous mattees as well as for many others which arc no decomposed by alkalies. When the chief in gredient of the mass is eesin, rectified spiri is frequently used to soften it, either with c without the addition of soap to increase,it solubility in the stomach. For many sub stances no excipient is required. Thus, mos' of the GUM-EESiNS and stipe exteacts may bi at once made into pills, or, at all events, afte being slightly softened by heat. Mucilage formerly so much used in the preparation o pills, is now only employed for those whicl are to be taken within a day or two after beini made; as pills containing it become so han and insoluble when kept for some time, as t< resist the action of the stomach, andfrequenth to pass through the bowels without even losing their form. [