732 HONEY DEW—HORSE. Honey of Squills. Syn. Mel scill^, L. Prep. 1. Thick clarified honey, ^ lb. : tincture of squills, 2 lb. ; mix. 2. (Soubciraii.) Dried squills, 1 oz.; boiling water, f pint; infuse 2 hours, strain, add of honey, 12 oz., and evaporate to a proper con- sistence. Resembles oxymel oe squills (nearly). Honey of Vi'olets. Syn. Mel viol.e, L. Prep. Erom clarified honey, 2 parts; expressed and depurated juice of violets, 1 part. Re- sembles syrup of violets. HON'EY DEW. Syn. Ros mellitus, L. A sweetish matter ejected upon the leaves of plants by certain aphides. HOOPING COUGH. See Whooping Coegh. HOPS. Syn. Lepultjs (Ph. L. E. & D,), L. “ The catkins of Humulus lupulus’^ or common hop plant. (Ph. L.) “ The dried strobiles.” (Ph. D.) The hops of commerce are the strobiles or catkins (lupuli steobili, l. amenta) of the hop plant. The yellow powder or small ‘lupixlinic grains’ or ‘glands’ (lu- pulin), which are attached to the strobiles, are the portion on which their characteristic qualities chiefly depend. In the choice of hops, care should be taken to select those that have large cones or stro- biles, that are the most powerfully odorous, and most free from leaves, stems, scaly frag- ments, and sticks, and which, when rubbed between the hands, impart, in the greatest degree, a yellowish tint and glutinous feeling to the skin. The tightness with which they are packed should also be noticed; as, with- out being very firmly pressed together, and quite solid, they soon spoil by keeping. The finest flavoured hops are the ‘ goldings,’grown chiefly in middle and east Kent; the ‘ white- bines’ of Farnhain and Canterbury j and the WoECESTEE HOPS, growii on the red soils ' of the vale of the Severn. These are princi- pally employed for the finer class of ales. Mid Kent and Sussex hops are also used for ale, but have an inferior colour and flavour. The best hops are packed in sacks of fine can- vas, termed f)ockets,’ weighing from li cwt. to 15 cwt. each; and the inferior qualities, in coarse ‘ bags,’ of about double this size. The former are mostly purchased by the ale brewers, and the latter by the porter brewers. When hops are older than of the last season’s growth, they are termed ‘ yearlings,’—when of the second season’s growth, * olds,’—and when three years, or older, ‘ old olds’ See Beew- ing, Exteact, Humulin, Lepulin, Tinc- TEEE, &C. HORE'HOUND. Syn. White hoeehoend ; Maeeebiem velgaee (Linn.), L. This herb has long been a popular remedy in chronic pulmonary complaints, especially catarrh, and in uterine and liver affections. Horehound tea (thea maeebii, iNEESEM MAEUBii) is pre- pared by infusing 1 oz. of the herb in boiling water, 1 piut, for an hour;—syrup of hore- hound (SYEEPES maeebii), by thickening the infusion or tea with sugar;—candied horehound (maeebiem conditem), by mixing 1 pint of horehound juice with 8 or 10 lb. of white sugar, boiling the mixture to a candy height, and pouring it, whilst warm; into moulds, or small paper cases, well dusted with finely powdered lump-sugar; or by pouring it out on a dusted slab, and cutting it into squares. See Candying. HORN. For the purposes of the turner and comb-maker, horns of the goat and sheep are preferred on account of their superior white- ness and transparency. For medical purposes, those of the stag (haetshoen) are ordered to be employed. Horn is dyed with the same dyes, and in a similar manner to bones and ivory. Horn is softened, bent, and moulded, by means of heat and pressure. For these pur- poses boiling water and a screw press are commonly employed. Horn is reduced to plates or sheets by saw- ing it, and then exposing it to powerfid pres- sure between hot iron plates; the pith having been previously removed, and its texture soft- ened by soaking for some days in water, and subsequent boiling in that liquid. Surfaces and edges may be united or ce- mented together by softening the horn by the heat of boiling water, placing the parts in contact under strong pressure, and exposing the whole thus arranged to the heat of boiling water. Horn is stained or party-coloured to imitate tortoise-shell, by a solution of terchloride of gold, for the eed portion; nitrate of silver, for the DAEK BEOWN and black ; and nitrate of mercury (hot), or a paste made of red lead, and potash or quicklime, for the BEOWN. When the last is used, the horn must be heated and exposed to its action for some hours. HORS-D’GEUVRES. [Fr.] Syn. Assiettes, Fr. Small entrees, as ‘ aiguillettes,’ * ragouts,’ plates of sardines, anchovies, or other relishes, served at dinner between the leading dishes. ‘ Assiettes volantes’ (flying plates) are dishes handed round to the guests, but not placed on the table. HORSE. Syn. Eqees, L. This most useful quadruped belongs to the family Equidee, dis- tinguished by a single digit and hoof on each foot. The horse can scarcely be said to exist at the present day in its natural wild state, as the so-called ‘ wild-horses’ of America and Asia are but the progeny of horses which have escaped from the haunts of civilization. Of all animals the horse is most useful to man. Independently of its value as a beast of burden and draught, its sJcin, its hide, in- testines, and bones, furnish us with leather, the thongs of whips, gut, grease, bone-black, ma- nure, &c. The excrement, fat, and hoof, were included in the Materia Medica of the Ph. L. 1618. The flesh is eaten in some countries, and was formerly esteemed to possess many virtues.