192 ANTIMONY. 2 a- parts at 212°; solution slightly reddens litmus, tastes acrid and disagreeably styptic and metallic, and suffers spontaneous decomposition from age, with the formation of a microscopic algaceous plant (sirocrosis tartarica ; s. stibica —Kutzing) which vegetates freely in it; de- composed by the stronger acids with the pre- cipitation of bitartrate of potassa and a sub- salt of antimony; alkalies and their carbonates throw down teroxide of antimony; heat b decomposes it; calcined in close vessels it Is ' converted into a pyrophoric alloy of antimony | and potassium. Dried at 212° Fahr., the ' ( crystals lose 1 atom of water; and at 428°, ' i tw'O additional atoms; but on re-solution, | .i again take up the elements of w'ater, Avith the production of the original salt. Comj}:— Per cent. Atoms. Eq. IV t. R. Phillips. . 43*35 . Wallquist. Calci'f Teroxide of Antimony . 1 . . 153 . . 42*99 . . 42*7 Potassa . 1 . . 47 . • j 49*251 • . 13*26 . . 13*1 Tartaric Acid . . . . 2 . . 132 . . 38*61 . . 36*7 Water . 3 . . 27 . . 7*40 .* . 5*14 . . 7*5 Crys. Potassio-tartrate \ of Antimony^ . . J - 1 359 100* 100* 100- Tests. See Antimony (and below). Pur. It is “ free from colour, and (wholly) soluble in water. The solution is unchanged by ferrocyanide of potassium. Hydrosulphuric acid gives with it a precipitate of a reddish colour; neither chloride of barium nor nitrate of silver throws down anything but what is again dissolved on the addition of water. With nitric acid it gives a precipitate which is soluble in excess of the same acid. From 100 gr. dissolved in water, hydrosulphuric acid throws down 49 gr. of tersulphuret of anti- mony.” (Ph. L.) “A solution in 40 parts of water is not affected by its owm volume of a solution of 8 parts of acetate of lead in 32 parts of distilled water and 15 parts of acetic acid.” (Ph. E.) The powder should be per- fectly white, and the precipitate formed by adding to its boiling solution a few drops of a solution of carbonate of soda, should not re- dissolve. If it does, the salt contains cream of tartar. (Hennel.) If the powder is yellow or yellowish-white, it contains iron. Com- mercial tartar-emetic frequently contains from 15 to 30§ of ‘ cream of tartar^; whilst nearly all the samples not purely white, are contami- nated with iron, and sometimes even with traces of arsenic. Phys. eff., 8fc. Externally, tartar emetic acts as a powerful local irritant, causing a pustular eruption, which permanently marks the skin; for this purpose it is used in the form of solution, ointment, or plaster. Internally, in small doses (^g to g, or even ^ gr.), it acts as a diaphoretic and expectorant; in somewhat larger doses (^ to ^ gr.), it excites nausea, and some- times vomiting, occasioning depression and relaxation, especially of the muscular fibre; in larger doses (1 to 2 or 3 gr,), it acts as an emetic and sudorific (and often as a purge), depressing the nervous functions, and pro- ducing a feeling of feebleness, exhaustion, and ’ This is based on the old, and still commonly received epuv. of antimony (129). Some authorities, however, assert that tartar-emetic contains only 2 equiv. of water; whilst according to Dumas, it contains only one. See Appendix. relaxation, greater than that caused by other emetics; in certain doses (^ to 3, or even 4 gr.), it is used as a sedative and antiphlogistic, to reduce the force of the circulation, &c.; in excessive doses, it acts as an irritant poison, and has in some instances caused death ; and even ‘ small doses ’ frequently administered, and long continued, have brought on a state of w'eakness, prostration, and distaste for food, ■ which has led to a fatal termination. Several cases have recently occurred in these realms in which tartar-emetic has been thus crimi- nally used. It is usually exhibited dissolved , \ in distilled water, either with or without the J addition of a little simple syrup. In acute ^. rheumatism, inflammation of the lungs or pleura, chorea, hydrocephalus, and apoplexy, it is said to have been given in doses of 2 to 4, or even 6 gr., with advantage, by Laennec, Rasori, and others; but these extreme doses are not always safe, and cannot be commendable when smaller ones (i to ^ gr., repeated every two hours) appear equally beneficial, and distress the patient less.^ In doses of gr. to | gr. each, combined with calomel, it is a powerful and excellent alterative in acute rheumatism and many skin diseases. In the treatment of inflammation, particularly of the cellular tissue, whether of an internal organ or otherwise, it is generally regarded as one of the most powerful and certain remedies known; whilst as an agent to reduce the force of the circula- r tion and muscular power, and spasm, it i? often of considerable service. In continuecl i fever, it is also equally useful. Dr. Billing,| ' who regards Asiatic cholera as “ an ague of »| ' fresh type,” successfully employed it in th( t worst stage of this disease. Of all our sudo- \ rifics it is, perhaps, the most valuable, and tht i one most generally available. Triturated witl 16 to 20 times its weight of sulphate of potassa it forms an excellent substitute for antifno 2 “In consequence of the violent vomiting” (and i might be added—prostration) “ wliich (even) 1 gr. ha sometimes produced, I have found positively ref us to continue the use of the medicine.” Pereua, “ 1h- ^ M. M.4th ed., i, 752.