107 ALKALOID. j sence of one or more of tlie ^rst six * of the above-named alkaloids:—the fluid is filtered from the precipitate, i mixed with either bicarbonate of soda or of potassa, gently boiled nearly to dryness, and treated with water. If it dissolves completely; absence of Morphia: an insoluble I residue indicates Moephia. I 2. The precipitate 1. b. is washed with j cold distilled water, dissolved in a slight excess of dilute sulphuric acid, neutralised with a I saturated solution of bicarbonate of soda, and I allowed to repose a few hours^:— I a. No precipitate; absence of Cin- chonia, Narcotina, and Quina :—the solu- tion is gently boiled nearly to dryness, and treated with cold ivater:—if it dis- I solves completely, pass on to 4; if there i is an insoluble residue, it may contain Brucia, Strychnia or Veratria. (See 3.) j b. K' precipitate :—the filtered fluid is I treated as directed at 2. a.; the pre- ! cipitate is washed with cold distilled water, dissolved in a little hydrochloric acid, am- monia is added in excess, and subse- I quently a sufficient quantity of ether, \ agitation being had recourse to :— «. The precipitate formed by the ammonia redissolves completely in the ether, and the clear fluid separates I into two layers; absence of Cin- I chonia ; probable presence of Qfina ! or Naecotina. (i. The precipitate produced by the 'ammonia does not re-dissolve I in the ether, or not completely ; pro- i bable presence of Cinchonia, and ! perhaps also of Quina or Narcotina. The filtered liquid may be tested for these alkaloids as at a. ; 3. The insoluble residuum after the evapora- tion of the solution 2. a., or of the filtrate j 2. b., is now dried in a water-bath, and di- ! : gested with absolute alcohol:— j a. It dissolves completely; absence ofj Strychnia ; probable presence of Beucia, j Quina (?), or Veeateia:—the alcoholic : solution is evaporated to dryness, and, if ^ quina has been already detected, the I residue is divided into two portions, one of j I which is tested for Brucia, the other for Veratria. j b. It does not dissolve, or not com- I pletely; probable presence of Strych- ! NiA, and perhaps also of Brucia and Vera- i tria :—the filtered fluid is divided into ; two portions, and tested separately as at a. : 1. The original liquid 1. a., may contain I Salicine, a proximate vegetable principle closely I allied to the alkaloids :—a portion is boiled with hydrochloric acid for some time; the I 1 Before setting tlie glass aside tlic liquor should he 1 well mixed, and the glass-stirrer vigorously mhbed i against the sides of the vessel. I formation of a precipitate shows the presence of Salicine. (See 2, below.y II. (Larocque and Thibierge.) Ter chloride of gold is recommended, by these writers, as a more decisive test for the alkaloids than the ‘ double chloride of gold and sodium * com- monly employed for this purpose. The fol- lowing are the colours of the precipitates which it produces with the aqueous solution of their salts :— Brucia, milk-bruivn, passing into coffee-brown, and lastly chocolate-brown:— CINCHONIA, sulphur-yellow:—MORPHIA, yellow, then bluish, and lastly violet; in this last state the gold is reduced, and the precipitate is insoluble in water, alcohol, the caustic alkalies, and sulphuric, nitric, and hydrochloric acid; it forms with aqua regia a solution which is precipitated by protosulphate of iron : —QUINA, buff-coloured :—strychnia, canary- yellow :—VERATRIA, pale greenish-yellow. All these precipitates, with the exception men- tioned, are very soluble in alcohol, insoluble in ether, and only slightly soluble in water. Those with morphia and brucia are sufficiently marked to prevent these alkalies from being mistaken for each other; and those with brucia and strychnia are, in like manner, easily distinguishable. The principal Alkaloids and their Salts, in the state of powder, or with ‘conia* and ‘ nicotia,’ in the state of an oily-looking liquid, may be thus distinguished:— 1. —a. The powder, is treated with nitric acid:—It is coloured red; probable presence of Brucia, Delphia, Morphia, or commercial Strychnia. If the reddened acid becomes violet on the addition of ^ protochloride of tin,’ it is Brucia; if it becomes black and car- bonaceous, it is Delphia ; if the powder is ^ fusible ’ without decomposition, and strongly decomposes ‘ iodic acid,’ it is Morphia ; if it is not ^ fusible ’ without decomposition, and does not decompose ‘ iodic acid,’ it is Strychnia. b. If instead of a ‘ red,’ the powder strikes a green colour with nitric acid, it is SOLANIA ; if it is insoluble in ‘ ether,’ and not reddened by ‘nitric acid,’ it is Emetia; if soluble in ether, not reddened by ‘ nitric acid,’ but melts and volatilises when heated, it is Atropia; if it is thus affected by ether or nitric acid, but does not volatilise, it is Vera* TRIA. (See 2, beloio.) 2. The powder, or (with‘conia and nicotia’} concentrated liquid, is treated with a drop or two of concentrated sulphuric acid:—A red colour is produced; probable presence of Brucia, Nicotina, Salicine, or Veratria. If the reddened mixture has at first a roseate hue, turning deep-red on the addition of ‘ nitric acid,’ it is Brucia ; if the original substance moistened with ‘solution of potassa’ evolves the odour of tobacco, it contains Nicotine ; if the red colour produced by the acid is pe^'manent 1 For furtlicr information on this subject, see the admi- rable "System of Qual. Chew. Anal,” by Dr. C. R. Frescuius. Cliurchill; 18.59,