POTATO. 1125 Sul'pliuret of Potassium. Syn. Sulphide ;■ POTASSIUM, Liver of suLPHURf; Potas- I SULPHURETUM (Ph. L. E. & U. S.), Hepar TLPIIURIS (Ph. D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. E.) dphur, 1 oz.; carbonate of potash, 4 oz.; ;ix, heat them in a covered crucible till they rm a uniform fused mass; when cold, break into fragments, and preserve it in well-closed ssels. The formulae of the Ph. L. 1836 & !i. U. S. are similar. 2. (Ph. D.) Sublimed sulphur, 4 oz.; car- nate of potash (from pearlash, first dried, j (I then reduced to powder), 7 oz.; mix in a inn mortar, heat them in a Hessian crucible, before, pour the fused mass into an iron p, over which immediately invert a second: ssel, to exclude the air, and, when cold, break e mass into fragments, and preserve it in a jeen-glass stoppered bottle. 'Prop., ^c. A hard, brittle, liver or greenish own coloured solid; inodorous whilst dry; I luble in water, forming a highly fetid solu- )ii; and, in acids, evolving strong fumes of Iphuretted hydrogen; reaction, alkaline; posed to the air, it is gradually converted b sulphate of potassa. As a medicine, it is puted diaphoretic, expectorant, and stimu- it. Dose. 2 to 6 gr., in solution, or made to pills with soap; in gout, rheumatism, er afiections, and various chronic skin dis- ses. Externally, made into a lotion and oint- mt. It is highly acrid and corrosive, and in •go doses poisonous. Obs. The above is the only ‘ sulphuret of tassium’ used in medicine. It appears to be mixture of two distinct sulphurets, with posulphite and sulphate of potassa. Che- ! sts describe not less than six compounds of [tassium with sulphur. The monosulphuret PROTOSULPUURET is formed by either re- cing sulphate of potassa, at a full red heat, means of hydrogen or charcoal, or by Icing a strong solution of hydrate of po- 5sa, saturating one half of it with sulphu- tted hydrogen, then adding the remaining If, and evaporating and fusing the mixture, forms a soluble, crystalline, cinnabar-red iS3, which acts as a strong sulphur-base, le HIGHER SULPHURETS may be formed by dng the protosulphuret with the additional uivalents of sulphur, as required. POTATO. This well-known and valuable tide of food is the tuber of the Solanum tu- >'omm or esculentum, a plant which was in- duced to this country by either Sir Francis ■alee or Sir Walter Raleigh, towards the ter part of the 16th century. It is now ex- iisively cultivated in all the temperate cli- ites of the world. It yields a vast quantity food on a small space of ground, but only out 1-7th part of the weight of the tuber nutritious, and this is chiefly farinaceous. 3 farina or starch is, however, accompanied no inconsiderable portion of saline matter, ore especially of potassa, which renders it ghly antiscorbutic, and a powerful corrective of the grossness of animal food. When form- ing part of a mixed diet, perhaps no sub- stance is more wholesome than the potato, and, certainly, no other esculent hitherto dis- covered appears equally adapted for univeral use. No certain rules can be laid down for ^ dress- ing' potatoes. ‘‘ If boiled, it may be that they require to be put into boiling water, or, may be, into cold, and either boiled quickly or slowly; but this you must find out. Choose them all about the same size, with a smooth skin, and v/hen they are boiled and begin to crack, throw off the water immediately, as it only damages the root. When dressed, let them stand near fire, with a cloth over them, and serve them in the skins. Salt may be put into the water at the beginning. A watery potato will require quick boiling, and, some- times, to be put into boiling water(Soyer.) To retain the highest amount of nourishment in potatoes, they should be ‘ dressed’ with their skins on them. The bruised or damaged parts, worm-holes, &c., being removed with a knife, the dirt should be carefully cleaned out of the “ eyes,” and from the rough parts of the skins, by means of a brush and water, after which they should be well rinsed in clean water, and drained in a colander. If they are at all dry or shrivelled, they may be advantageously left to soak for 3 or 4 hours in clean cold water before cooking them. Potatoes * dressed’ in the Skins have been found to be nearly twice as rich in potassa-salts as those which have ]^been first peeled. The skins are easily removed before sending them to table. New POTATOES should have their loose outer skin rubbed off with a cloth or stiff brush be- fore being dressed or cooked. Mashed potatoes are prepared by crushing, with the back of a spoon, or with a rolling- pin, the hot ‘ dressed’ tubers, placed in a bowl or dish, or on a pie-board. A little milk, butter, and salt, may be added to them at will; and they may be either at once ‘ served up,’ or pressed into ‘ forms,’ and first ‘ browned off’ in the oven. Potatoes, if not soft and mealy, and well masticated, frequently escape the solvent action of the stomach, and pass off undigested, often to the serious derangement of the health. By mashing them, this incon- venience is removed. The delicate, the dys- peptic, and the aged, should take them in no other form. Potatoes may be preserved, so as to stand the longest voyages unchanged, by thoroughly desiccating them in an oven, or by steam heat. For this purpose, the roots, either raw or three parts dressed, are generally first cut into dice of about f inch square, to facilitate the operation. Under a patent granted to Mr. Downes Edwards, Aug., 1840, the boiled potatoes are mashed and granulated, by forc- ing them through a perforated plate, before drying them. The granulated product, beaten up with a little hot milk or hot water, forms