28 ACID. assume more than one of these forms. Those which are soluble, or liquid, taste sour, are corrosive when concentrated, change vegetable blues to red, and restore the original colours to vegetable blues turned green, or yellows turned J)rown, by an alkali. Nearly all of them are soluble in water, and some of them (as sulphuric acid) have so strong an attraction for it, as to absorb it from the atmosphere. They neutralise the alkalies, effervesce with the carbonates, and combine with the bases generally, forming definite compounds, termed SALTS. Most of them are either volatilised or decomposed by a moderate degree of heat; but some wiU resist a considerable temperature. Tests, S(c. The method of detecting the individual acids will be found under their respective names. In most cases the mere presence of an acid may be known by the sourness of the compound, by its reddening blue litmus paper, and exhibiting the other general properties of acids already described. The ORGANIC ACIDS are mostly decomposed upon ignition, carbonised, and destroyed; their salts also suffer carbonisation; and those of the alkalies and earths are, in general, resolved into carbonates of the respective bases. The INORGANIC ACIDS deport themselves in a dif- ferent manner when thus treated. Hence, we are enabled easily to distinguish these two great classes of acids from each other. For further identification we must subdivide these classes:— 1. Inorganic acids :—a. 1. Acids which in neutral solutions give a precipitate with ^ chloride of barium,’ belong to the following group :—Arsenious acid, arsenic acid, chromic acid, sulphuric acid, phosphoric acid, horacic acid, oxalic acid, hydrofluoric acid, carbonic acid, silicic acid. 2. Acids which in acid solutions are decom- posed\)j * sulphuretted hydrogen’:—Arsenious acid, arsenic acid, chromic acid. 3. Acids which in acid solutions are unde- composed by ‘ sulphuretted hydrogen,’ and of which the precipitate with ‘ chloride of barium’ is insoluble in hydrochloric acid:—Sulphuric acid. 4. Acids giving no precipitate with * sulphu- retted hydrogen,’ the precipitate with ‘chloride of barium’ being soluble in hydrochloric acid, without apparent decomposition, even when followed by the application of heat, and evapo- ration :—Phosphoric acid, boracic acid, oxalic acid, hydrofluoric acid. 5. Acids which are not decomposed by ‘sul- phuretted hydrogen,’ the precipitate with chloride of barium being soluble in ‘ hydro- chloric acid’ with decomposition or separation of the acid :—Carbonic acid, silicic acid. b. Acids which in solution are unaffected by ‘ chloride of barium,’ but precipitated by ‘ nitrate of silver,’ the precipitate being in- soluble in dilute nitric acid: — Hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydriodic acid, hydro- cyanic acid, hydrosulphuric acid. c. Acids which are precipitated by neither ‘ chloride of barium,’ nor ‘ nitrate of silver’:— Nitric acid, chloric acid. II. Organic acids ; — a. Acids which are precipitated by ‘ chloride of calcium’: — Oxalic acid, tartaric acid, paratartaric acid, racemic acid, citric acid, malic acid. b. Acids which are not precipitatedhy ‘ chlo- ride of calcium,’ but whose neutral solutions are precipitated by ‘ sesquichloride of iron’:— Benzoic acid, succinic acid. c. Acids which 2bve precipitated by neither ‘chloride of calcium’ nor ‘sesquichloride of iron’:—Acetic acid, formic acid. The acids being thus divided, as above, into two grand classes {inorganic and organic), and these classes subdivided into groups, the iden- tification of the individual members of the latter may be easily effected by applying the characteristic tests given under their respective names. Phys. eff., Sfc. Some of the dilute acids {sulphuric, nitric, hydrochloric, &c.), unite with the albumen and fibrine of animal tissues and fluids, forming insoluble compounds, when in excess ; others {phosphoric, acetic), on the con- trary, by a similar union, form compounds which are very soluble. Some {acetic, oxalic, tartaric) dissolve the capsule of the mucous corpuscles. When applied to the skin, the acids harden the cuticle, from combining with its albumen; and they produce astriction and blanching of the mucous surfaces from a like cause. The acids also combine with the alka- lies (chiefly soda) and earthy bases {lime and magnesia) of the various fluids and secretions in the body, by which their acid properties are destroyed; in this neutral state they are absorbed into the blood, pass through the circulation, and are thrown out of the system chiefly by the kidneys, and for the most part in combination. Occasionally only (except when in excessive quantities) they turn the urine preternaturally sour. The/ree vegetable acids are thus eliminated in combination with an alkali, but their salts suffer decomposition and reappear in the urine under the form of carbonates. (Wohler.) Benzoic acid is changed into hippuric acid, and its salts into hippurates. The constant use of acidulous drinks, acid salads, fruit, &c., tends to produce leanness and general emaciation. In medicinal doses, properly administered, most of the acids act as tonics, refrigerants, attenuants, &c., allaying thirst. Improving the appetite, promoting digestion, reducing the force and frequency of the pulse, and lessening the amount of cutaneous perspiration. They also sometimes prove diuretic, and occasionally cause diarrhoea. When injudiciously adminis- tered, or when taken for too long a time, the contrary effects are produced, the appetite, digestion, and assimilative processes suffer, and a habit of body and affections simulating scorbutus, ensue. The concentrated acids act as escharotics and oxidisers, dissolve the epi-