336 BLISTERING—BLOOM. 2. Concentrated acetic acid, applied in the same way, has a similar eftect. 3. (Dr. Darcq.) Into a flat watch-glass, pour from 8 to 10 drops of highly concen- trated liquor of ammonia; cover the liquid with a small piece of linen of rather less diameter than that of the glass, and at once apply this little apparatus to the previously shaved skin. The whole must he kept in its place by means of moderate pressure with the fingers, until a red ring, about 2 centimetres in breadth, is observed round the glass, when it is certain that vesication is effected. Some- times scarcely 30 seconds are necessary for obtaining the result. The apparatus may then he removed, and the blistered part treated in the usual manner; the dressing being accord- ing to the object in view. 4. (Trousseau.) Bibulous paper slightly w'etted with a little of the ethereal extract of cantharides, and instantly applied to the skin, the whole being covered with a piece of common adhesive plaster to prevent evaporation. 5. Boiling water applied by means of a suitably shaped tube, the adjacent parts being at the same time protected from injury. In- stantaneous. Horse Blister. See Veterinary Medicines. Perpet'ual Blister*. See Blister {ante). BLIS'TERING. Syn. Ves'icans, Vesica- to"riijs, L. ; Epispastiqde, Vesicant, Vesi- CATOiRE, Fr.; Blasenziehend, &c. Ger. In medicine, Sfc., that vesicates or raises blisters when applied to the skin. Blistering Pa'per, Plas'ter, Tis"sue (tish-u), &c. See Plasters, Vesicants, &c. BLOAT'ER. See Blote. BLONDE. [Fr.] Syn. Blond'-lace. Silk- lace. The name is now also applied to cotton- j lace edged with silk. For the mode of cleaning it and ‘getting it up,’ see Lace and Muslin. BLOOD (blud). Syn. San"guis, L.; Sang, Fr.; Blut, Ger. The general circulating fluid of animals, and that on which the nou- rishment and growth of their bodies depend, and from wdiich all the secretions are formed. It is warm and red in ‘ vertebrated animals and, for the most part, cold and white in the ‘ invertebrata.’ In man and all other mam- mals, and in birds—the two highest classes of the animal kingdom—the blood, though col- lectively forming but one circulating stream, varies considerably in appearance according to the part or vessels in wdiich it is found. That contained in the left side of the heart, and in the arteries, possesses a very brilliant scarlet- colour, and is called arte"rial blood ; whilst that found in the right side of the heart, and in the veins, has a darkish purple-colour, and is called YE'NOUS BLOOD. The two, however, differ little from each other in their chemical properties and composition; the most marked point of difference being that ‘venous blood’ holds carbonic acid in solution, w’hilst oxygen predominates in the blood of the ‘ arteries.’ The fibrine of ‘ venous blood’ is also soluble in a solution of nitrate of potassa ; whilst that of j arterial blood is insoluble in that menstruum. ' Comp. Blood consists of a transparent and J nearly colourless fluid (plas'ma, se"rum;, sEr- | albu'men), in which float about a countless multitude of microscopic round red bodies (blood'-discs,b.-cor'puscles, -piislz), to which its colour is due, accompanied by a few colour- less globules (white b.-c.) of a somewhat j larger size. The red corpuscles are found, on I more minute examination, to consist of an envelope containing a solution of hcematosine. Prop. These are, for the most part, well known. It has an alkaline reaction, a saline and rather disagreeable sweetish taste, and when newly drawn evolves a peculiar odour or ‘ halitus,’ which almost immediately disappears, j As it cools and on repose it coagulates, owing, , according to some, to the spontaneous solidi- ; fication of the fibrine; but more probably, as ‘ has been recently shown, to the loss of am- monia, traces of which are always present in newly drawn blood. | Uses, (^c. That of bullocks is employed for i the clarification ofivines and syrups; also in | the preparation of adhesive cements, as the j ‘ vehicle ’ in coarse paint for out-door work, as : a manure, as a bleaching powder, to make pure animal charcoal, and for several other purposes. I The blood of sheep, pigs, and bullocks, mixed with ! flour or oatmeal, and seasoned, is eaten by the common people, but it is rather indigestible, and apt to induce disease. Gut-skins stuffed with this mixture formtheBLACKPUDDiNGSof thevulgar. Bullock's blood, dried by exposure in thin layers to a current of air, at a heat under 125°, and then reduced to powder, is exported in large quantities to the colonies, where it is i j used, as a ‘ clarifier,’ in the sugar-works. , Dried at a temperature ranging between 212° to 220°, then coarsely pow^dered, and the dusty • portion sifted off, it is much used by fraudulent - dealers to adulterate grain-musk. See Animal- charcoal, Globuline, H.ematosine, Plas- ma, Serum, Stains, Vision, &c. Spitt'ing of Blood. See Hemoptysis. Vom'iting of Blood. See Stomach Diseases. BLOOD'-ROOT. 5yn. Red'-root, Puccoon'; Sanguina"ria, L. The sanguindr'ia Cana- den'sis (Linn.), a papaveraceous plant of North America; also its root (sanguina"ria, Ph. U.S.), w'hich is the part used in medicine. Juice, blood-red, used in dyeing. In small doses (3 to 5 gr.), it is stimulant, diaphoretic, and expectorant; in large ones (10 to 20 gr.), narcotic, emetic, and purgative. The powder is sometimes used as an escharotic. See San- GUINARINE. BLOOD'STONE. A hard compact variety of haematite used to form burnishers. The name is also applied by lapidaries to the heliotrope. BLOOM. In perfumery, ^c., a name given to several colorific skin-cosmetics, of which the following are examples :— Bloom of Almonds (ah'-miindz). Syn. kil- MOND-BLOOM. Prep. Boil 1 oz. of ground Brazil-