758 INDIN—INFLAMMATION. the mixture to a thin paste; spread the mass evenly upon an oblong iron plate to the depth of about ^ inch, and dry it by a gentle heat. It must then be held over the flame of a spirit lamp, when a disgusting odour will be evolved, the mass will begin to smoke, and in a few minutes will be covered with a heavy purple vapour, which will condense into brilliant flat- tened prisms or plates of an intense copper colour, forming a thick velvety coating over the surface immediately exposed to the heat. Should the mass catch fire, it may be instantly extinguished by a drop of water let fall upon it. Prod. 15 to 18§. See Indigo, &c. IN'DIN. A peculiar substance produced when lisulphisathyde is treated with a cold aqueous solution of pure potassa. This sub- stance is isomeric with indigo white, but is in other respects dissimilar. INDIN'IC ACID. Formed by the action of a boiling solution of potassa on indin. It forms crystalline salts. Indinate of potassa forms small black needles. INDURA'TION. In pathology, an increase in the consistence of any portion of the body, usually resulting from chronic inflammation, pressure, or friction. IN'FANCY. “The domestic treatment of infants and children is comprised in the appli- cation of the laws of health to the mother as well as to the child. The position of parent is one of serious responsibility, both morally and physically, and the edict has gone forth that ‘ the sins of the parent shall be visited on the children.' If we could ensure good mothers, we could vastly improve the race of men. The nursing mother of a sick infant must, by fol- lowing faithfully the rules of health in respect of the four great hygienic principles—^oorf, clothing, exercise, and ablution, give health with her milk to her offspring; she must also pay close attention to her mind, avoid all sources of irritation and anxiety, and remem- ber that an angry mother sours her milk, and produces a fractious and often a diseased infant. I am quite of opinion, that if mothers were sound in constitution, and bestowed the requisite care upon the maintenance of their health, we should hear little of diseases of children. In children, as well as in parent, the rules of health must be carried out," and their neglect cannot fail to bring with it a heavy retribution. (Eras. Wilson.) See Ex- EECISE, NuESING, &C. INTANT'S PRESERVATIVE (Atkinson’s). Carbonate of magnesia, 6 dr.; ivhite sugar, 2^ oz.; oil of aniseed, 20 drops; compound spirit of ammonia and rectified spirit, of each, 2i\ fl. dr.; laudanum, 1 fl. dr.; syrup of saffron, 1 oz.; caraway water, q. s. to make the whole mea- sure 1 pint. Antacid, anodyne, and hypnotic. INFEC'TION. Syn. Contagion. The com- munication of disease, either hy personal con- tact with the sick or by means of effluvia arising from their bodies. Attempts have been made to restrict the term contagion to i the former, and infection to the latter, but this distinction is now discarded by the ma- jority of writers. The following are the prin- cipal diseases which are commomly regarded as contagious:—chicJcen-pox, cholera, cowpox, dy- sentery, erysipelas, glanders,gonorrhoea,hooping- cough, hydrophobia, itch, measles, mumps, oph- thalmia (purulent), plague, scald-head, scarlet fever, smallpox, syphilis, yaws. See Disin- fectant, &c. INFLAM'MABLE AIR. See Hydeogen. INFLAMMATION. Syn. Inelammatio, L. In pathology, a certain state of disease. The common symptoms of inflammation are pain, swelling, heat, and redness, attended with fever and general constitutional derangement when severe. In all cases the vascular action of the part is excited or augmented; and if the attack does not subside or terminate with- out an exacerbation of the symptoms, adhesion, suppuration, ulceration, and obstruction of parts, follow each other in regular succession. In external inflammations, and in those which attack the outer covering of the viscera, these symptoms are the most highly developed and observable; whilst in inflammation of internal membranes and deep-seated parts, little pain is often experienced. The treatment of inflammations, whether trifling or serious, is essentially the same in principle, and only difiers in degree. This consists in the adoption of the usual means for lowering the force of the circulation and the frequency of the pulse; of which bleeding, purging, a low diet, and the use of refrigerant drinks and lotions, form the most important part. The constitutional derangement or symptomatic inflammatory fever, and inflam- matory condition of the blood, which always accompany local inflammation, and progress with its intensity, are usually combated by copious bleeding from the arm, repeated a second and even a third time, until some ob- vious advantage is gained. In inflammations of a more purely local character, cupping or leeching the part immediately affected, or the parts adjacent to it, is in general more appro- priate and successful. In these cases the ap- plication of refrigerant or sedative lotions, baths, &c., generally proves of much advan- tage. In cases in which there is induration or dryness of the part, the use of warm embro- cations is indicated. Inflammation often arises from apparently very trifling causes, particularly in persons of a full or bad habit of body, or who indulge in the free use of malt liquors. In some persons a very trifling local injury, as a slight abrasion, cut, prick, or sprain, produces a considerable amount of tumefaction, attended with severe constitutional excitement. Punctured wounds, sprains, and dislocations, commonly furnish the most serious cases of inflammation that depend on mere external i)ijury. See Abscess, Fevee, Tumoue, &c. Inflammation of the Bowels, The common