BLEACHING. 331 1. Preliminary operations:—a. Tlie‘pieces’^ are separately stamped with the ‘printer’s name,’ a solution of silver, or sometimes coal- tar, being employed for the purpose. b. They are tacked together endwise either by ‘ hand ’ or a ‘ machine,’ so as to form one continuous piece of 300 to 350 yards in length, according to the ‘weight’ of the cloth. c. They are singed.^ d. They are crushed into a rope-like FORM by drawing them through a smooth aperture,^ the surface of which is generally of glass or porcelain—the ‘ rope-form ’ being given them to enable the water, and other liquids, to penetrate the goods more easily, and to allow them to be laid in loose coils in the ‘ kiers.’ 2. The ‘ pieces ’ are bucked or boiled in milk of lime‘s for 12 to 14 hours,® followed by RINSING or cleansing in the washing- machine. 3. They are soured in water acidulated with hydrochloric acid^ and again W'ASHED ; similar machines being employed for each. 4. They are bucked or boiled for 15 or 16 hours in a solution of resinate of sodaP and then washed as before. 5. They are ‘ chemicked ’ by being laid in a wooden, stone, or slate-cistern, when a solution of chloride of lime^ is pumped over them, so as to run through the ‘ goods ’ into a vessel below, from which it is returned on them, by continued pumping, so that the cloth lies in it for 1 to 2 hours; it is then washed. 6. They are bucked or boiled, for 4 or 5 hours, in a solution of 1 lb. of crystallised carbon- ate of soda, dissolved in 5 gal. of water, to every 35 lb. of cloth / and washed. 7. They are again ‘ chemicked,’ as before; and WASHED. 8. They are soured in very dilute hydro- chloric acid and then left on ^stillagesfor 5 or 6 hours. 9. They are, finally, thoroughly washed, well squeezed between rollers, dried over steam- heated tin-cylinders, starched or dressed, and FINISHED. 1 Usually about 30 yards each. 2 Generally on one side only; but for ‘ goods’ to be sub- sequently finely printed, on both sides. For very fine printing the nap is sometimes removed by shearing in- stead of ‘ singeing,’ an ingenious and effective machine being employ^ for the piu-pose. 3 Such ‘ apertures’ are also used, instead of ‘pulleys,’ in the transfer of the rope from place to place. ^ The common proportions are about 1 lb. of quicMime slaked and reduced to ‘ milk’ with 2 gal. of water, ior every 14 or 15 lb. of cloth. ® This is done in a large ‘ iron-boiler’ furnished with a perforated false-bottom of wood, and technically termed a *kier.’ ® This dilute, acid or acidulated water has usually the sp. gr. TOlO, or 2° Twaddle. 7 Made with about 17 lb. of soda-ash and 3 lb. of resin, with water, 50 gal., to every 20 or 21 lb. of cloth. ® Technically celled ‘ chemick.' The strength of the solution is usually of the sp. gr. 10025, or-5° Twaddle. 9 Sp. gr. 1-0125, or 2^° Twaddle. ^9 Low stools or props to keep them from the ground. This is the usual process for good calicos. Muslins, and other light goods, are handled rather more carefully; whilst for commoner ones, the sixth and seventh operations are generally omitted. The whole usually occu- pies 5 daysj but by using Mr. Barlow’s high- pressure steam kiers, it may be performed in two days. Yarns, &c., may be bleached in a similar manner by first looping the skeins together. Obs. According to the most reliable authori- ties, the strength of cotton-fibre is not impaired by its being boiled for ‘ two hours ’ in milk of lime, under ordinary pressure, out of contact with the air; nor according to the bleachers, even by ‘ sixteen ’ hours’ boiling at the strength of 40 lb. per 100 gal. It is said that lime is less injurious than ‘ soda.’ Solution of caustic soda, sp. gr. 1-030, does not injure it, even by boiling under high pressure; but, in practice, soda-ash, or car- bonate of soda, is used, and this only in the second ‘ bucking,’ and in the third, if there be one. The strength now never exceeds 25 lb. of the crystals to the \D0-gal., and is usually less. Experiments have shewn that immersion for 8 hours in a solution of chloride of lime con- taining 3 lb. to the 100 gal., followed by ‘ souring ’ in sulphuric acid of the sp. gr. 1’067, or for 18 hours in acid of 1'035, does not injure it. By the improved method of previously treating the ‘goods’ with lime or alkalies, little chloride of lime is required. Indeed it is said that where 300 lb. were formerly em- ployed, 30 to 40 lb. only are now used. At the same time it is right to mention, that though a solution at Twaddle is usually re- garded as the best and safest strength, yet in some bleach-works, particularly for inferior and less tender ‘goods,’ this is greatly in- creased, even up to 5°, the period of immersion being proportionately reduced, as it is not safe to expose the ‘ goods ’ long to the action of such powerful solutions. With the higher strengths they are passed rapidly through the liquid with the calender, sufficient time only being allowed to soak them thoroughly; then immediately through the acid or ‘ souring,’ fol- lowed by washing as before. In Scotland and Ireland the ‘ washing ’ is generally performed by ‘ wash-stocks;’ whilst in Lancashire, ‘ dash-wheels ’ or washing- machines with squeezers, are almost always used for the purpose. Cotton loses about l-20th of its weight by bleaching. II. Bleaching of Linen:—Linen may be bleached in a similar way to ‘ cotton,’ but the process is much more troublesome and tedious, owing to its greater affinity for the colouring matter existing in it in the raw state. Under the OLD SYSTEM, several alternate ‘ buckings ’ with pearlash or potash and lengthened ex- posure on the field, with one or two ‘ sourings,’