518 ELECTRUM MINERALE—ELECTUARY. 4. (PLATiNrM Solution.) The double chlo- ride of platinum and potassium, dissolved in solution of caustic potassa. Other solutions have been proposed, hut this appears to he decomposed with the greatest ease. The above sketch of the electrotype art is necessarily very imperfect. For minute de- tails respecting manipulation, the reader is referred to the excellent treatise on the subject written by Mr. Charles V. Walker; to Napier’s ‘Manual of Electro-metallurgy’; and to the articles in Ure’s ‘ Dictionary of Arts, Manu- factures, &c.’ See Voltaic Electeicitt, Beonzing, Diapheagm, Etching, Coppee, SiLVEE, &c. ELEC'TRUM MINERA'LE. Syn. Tinctuee OP THE METALS. A once celebrated prepa- ration, made of tin, copper, and a little gold, melted with double their weight of martial regulus of antimony ; the resulting mass being powdered, and deflagrated with nitre and charcoal, and the scoriae thus obtained reduced to powder whilst still hot, and digested in rectified spirit. The product was a rich red- coloured tincture, reputed to possess the most extraordinary virtues. ELEC'TUARY. Syn. Electhaeihm, L. Electuaries (electhaeia) are formed of light powders, generally vegetable, mixed up with honey, syrup, or sugar, to the consistence of a stiff paste. In the present Pharmacopoeia they are included under the title Confection, but this arrangement is manifestly improper, as the words are not synonymous. In Con- serves and Confections, the addition of the saccharine matter is in much larger propor- tion, and is designed to preserve the vegetable matter; in Electuaries, the. syrup is designed merely to communicate the required form. (Dr. Murray.) The preparation of electuaries is similar to that of confections and conserves, and the same precautions must be observed to reduce the dry ingredients to very fine powder before adding them to the syrup or other substances used to give them form. Care must also be taken to diffuse the ingredients equally through every portion of the mass, by patient and laborious stirring. The neglect Of this point has often led to disagreeable consequences, from some portion of the electuary being nearly inert, while another portion has pos- sessed increased activity. See Coneection, CONSEEVE, LiNCTUS, &C. Electuary of Ac'etate of Potassa. See Con- see ve. Electuary of Alum. Syn. Electhaeihm ALHMINIS, L. Prep. 1. (Phoebus.) Alum, 1 dr.; extract of logwood, 4 dr.; balsam of Peru, 6 drops; water of sage, q. s. Astringent and antiseptic; in diarrhoea, sponginess of the gums, &c. 2. (St. Marie.) Alum, 1 dr.; catechu and extract of bark, of each, 2 dr.; conserve of roses, 6 dr.; simple syrup, q. s. Dose. A tea- spoonful, every 4 hours; in chronic diarrhoea, | See CON- leucorrlioeaj hsemorrhages, &c. EECTION. An'odyne Electuary. Syn. Electhaeium ANODYNHM, L, Prep. See Confection of Opihm. Ar'abic Electuary. Syn. Electhaeihm SAEZ^ COMPOSITHM, E. AeABICHM, L. ; ElEC- THAIEE Aeabiqhe, Fr. Prep. From sarsa- qjarilla, 5 oz.; senna and China root, of each, 3 oz.; dried walnut-peet, 1 oz. (all in fine pow- der) ; honey, q. s. Dose. 1 to 4 dr. See Teaitement Aeabiqhe. Aromat'ic Electuary. Syn. Electhaeihm n AEOMATICHM (Ph. E.). Tliis preparation differs from the aromatic confection of the other British colleges, in not containing chalk. It is aromatic and stomachic, but not antacid or absorbent. See Confection. Bath Electuary. Syn. Electhaeihm anti- CaCHECTICHM, E. MAETIALE, E. FEEEI COM- POSITHM, L. Prep. Erom blacksmith’s clinkers, reduced to an impalpable powder, and made into an electuary with honey or treacle, q. s.; afterwards adding, powdered ginger and car- bonate of magnesia, of each, 1 oz., to every lb. of the mixture. Dose. A teaspoonful night and morning every day, for 3 or 4 days, and again, after an equal interval, as long as thought necessary; as a chalybeate tonic, and in w orms. Electuary of Bitar'trate of Potas'sa. Syn. Electhaeihm potassje taeteatis, L. Prep. (Monro.) Cream of tartar, 1 oz.; powdered ginger and conserve of roses, of each, 1 dr.; syrup of orange peel, q. s. Dose. 1 to 3 dr.; as a hydragogue purge. It is also a useful laxative in common cases. See Confection OF Ceeam of Taetae. Black Electuary. Syn. Teohsseah’s elec- THAET, TEOUSSEAH’S BLACK TONIC; ELEC- THAEIHM NIGEUM, E. FEEEI TANNATIS, L. Prep. From sesquichloride of iron, 4 dr.; t tannin, 1 dr.; confection of roses, 2 oz.; syrup of orange peel, 1 oz. Tonic and astringent. Dose. 5 to 30 gr. Electuary of Black Pep’per. See Confec- tion OF Peppee. Electuary of Burnt Sponge. Srjn. Electu- AEiHM spongijE HST.3E, L. Prep. (Hulse.) Burnt sponge, 10 gr.; rhubarb, 4 gr.; conserve of roses, q. s. For a dose, to be taken night and morning; in scrofula, glandular swellings, &c. See Confection of Sponge. Electuary of Cas'sia. Syn. Electhaeihm CASSiJE (Ph. D. 1826), E. c. fisthl^e (Ph. E.), L. Prep. (Ph. D. 1826.) Fresh cassia pulp and syrup of orange, of each, ^ lb.; manna, 2 oz.; tamarind pulp,\ oz.', mix, and evapo- rate to a proper consistence. Dose. 2 dr. to 1 oz.; as a gentle laxative for children, or as a vehicle for other cathartics. That of the shops is commonly made with equal parts of i tamarind and cassia pulps, mixed with gth of i manna, and flavoured with a few drops of tincture of orange peel, without any evapora tion. See Confection. i-:-