POWDER. 1129 I ) be a favourite form of medicine in the dls- ises of infancy and childhood. It is necessary that whatever we order to 3 reduced to powder should be rubbed through fine sieve, so that the impurities and coarser irts may be separated; and it is needful that lost powders should be recently prepared, and ot too long kept.” (Ph. L.) As nearly all powders suffer by exposure to le air and light, they should be preserved in josely corked opaque or green-glass bottles, in tin canisters from which the external air is jirefully excluded. See Ptjlyerization, &c. j The following formulae include all the iDwders (pulveees) of the three British Phar- lacopccias, with some others of interest or tility:— Algaroth^s Powder. See Oxychloride oe tXTBiOYY {page 189). i Powder of Al'oes (Compound). Syn. Pulyis LOES COMPOSITES (Ph. L.), P. ALOES CEM UAIACO, L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Socotrine or ■^palic aloes (in powder), l-^- oz.; guaiacum (in Dwder), 1 oz.; compound cinnamon powder, oz.; rub them together. A warm, sudorific urgative. Dose. 10 to 20 gr. Powder of Aloes with Canel'la Syn. LOETIC POWDER, HOLY BITTERf, HlERA rCRAf; PelYIS ALOES CEM CANELLA, L. rep. From powdered Socotrine or hepatic aloes, parts; powdered white canella, 1 part. Uses id dose, as the last. Obs. Once a highly popular remedy. It as originally made into an electuary with oney, and in this form was frequently called HiERA LOGADii.^ It is still a favourite in bmestic medicine and veterinary practice, he principal objection to both this and the receding preparation is the nauseous flavour t the aloes, which is ill concealed by the aro- latics. The ‘hiera picra^ for farriers is sually made with the cheapest Cape aloes. Powder of Al'um (Compound). Syn. Styp- [C POWDER ; PeLYIS STYPTICES, P. ALEMINIS DMPOSITES (Ph. E.), L. Prep. (Ph, E.) Vmwj, 4 oz.; kino, 1 oz.; mix them, and reduce lem to fine pov/der» Astringent and styptic. ^ose. 5 to 15 gr.; in diarrhoea, profuse men- ruation, &c. Externally, in hsemorrhages, c. Powder of Ancho'vy. Syn. Pelyis clepeje NCRASICOLI, L. Prep. Pound anchovies to a iste, then rub them through a sieve, and add lough flour to make a dough, which must be )lled out into thin slices and dried by a gentle eat in a stove; it is, lastly, powdered and bot- ed. Colouring is frequently added. Chiefly to make sauces. British anchovies are equently substituted for the genuine fish. Mtimo"nial Powder. Syn. Feyer pow- er, Lisle’s p., James’s p. ; Pelyis Jacobi, elyis antimonialis (Ph. E. & D.), Pelyis ^N’TiMONii composites (Ph. L.), L. Prep. • (Fh. L.) A mixture of tersulphuret ofan- mony, 1 lb., and hartshorn shavings, 2 lb., is 'duced to powder, thrown into a crucible heated to v/hiteness, and stirred constantly until vapour no longer rises; the calcined mix- ture is then rubbed to powder, again put into the crucible, and the heat gradually increased to whiteness, and maintained so for 2 hours; the residuum is, lastly, reduced to a very fine powder. 2. (Ph. E.) From sidphuret of antimony and hartshorn s\avings, equal weights; as the last. 3. (Ph. D.) Tartarized antimony, 4 oz., is dissolved in water, gall,, and added to a solution of phosphate of soda, 4 oz., in water, 1 quart; a solution of chloride of calcium, 2 oz., in water, 1 quart, and to which solution of ammonia (Ph. D.), 4 fl. oz., has been added, is next poured in, and the whole boiled for 20 minutes; the precipitate is then collected on a calico filter, and washed with hot distilled water, until the liquid which passes ceases to give a precipitate with a weak solution of nitrate of silver; it is, lastly, dried by a steam or water heat, and reduced to a fine powder. Uses, (fc. Febrifuge and diaphoretic. In- tended as a substitute for the proprietary and more expensive James’s powder. Dose. 3 to 10 or 12 gr., or more, repeated every fourth or fifth hour until diaphoresis is set up; in fevers, rheumatic affections, chronic skin diseases, &c. It is a very uncertain and variable compound, unless it has been carefully prepared. Dr. Elliotson exhibited it in doses of 100 gr., without producing any sensible effect. A spu- rious article, made by triturating 1 oz. of tartar emetic with 18 or 19 oz. of burnt hartshorn, is frequently sold for it in the shops. See An- TiMONiOES Acid and James’s Powder. Aromat'ic Powder. See Compoend Cinna- mon Powder. Arsen'ical Powder. See Escharotic Pow- der. Powder of Asarabae'ea (Compound). See Snefp (Cephalic). Astrin'gent Powder. Syn. Pelvis astrin- GENS, P. STYPTICES, L. Prep. From Aleppo galls and burnt alum, in fine powder, equal parts. Used in piles, soft polypi of the nose, chilblains, &c. Ba"king Powder. Prep. 1. Tartaric acid, 3 lb.; bicarbonate of soda and potato farina or British arrow-root, of each, f lb. (each in pow- der) ; separately dry them perfectly by a very gentle heat, then mix then in a dry room, pass the mixture through a sieve, and at once put it into packets, observing to press it hard, and to cover it with tinfoil or close-made paper, to preserve it as much as possible from the air and moisture. 2. (Delforte’s.) Powdered tartaric acid, i lb. ; powdered alum, ^ lb.; bicarbonate of soda, f lb.; farina, 1 lb.; dry separately, as before, mix, and further add of sesquicarbonate of am- monia (in powder), 3 oz.; lastly, closely pack it in tinfoil. 3. (Green’s.) Tartaric acid, 35 lb.; sesqui- carbonate of soda, 56 lb.; potato flour, 1 cwt.; mix as before.