750 HYPOPHOSPHOROUS ACID. particularly Procter aucl Parrish, of Philadel- phia, have devoted much attention to these compounds, and the formula given below are chiefly derived from their researches. HypophospMte of Ammo"nia. Prep. (Par- rish.) Dissolve liypopliosphite of lime, 6 oz., in water, 4 pints; and dissolve translucent sesqui- carhonate of ammonia, 7*23 oz. (barely 7i), in water, 2 pints j mix the solutions; filter, wash- ing out the solution retained by the carbonate of lime with water, q. s.; evaporate the fil- trate to dryness with great care; dissolve it in alcohol, q. s.; filter, evaporate, and crystallize. Very soluble in both alcohol and water. Hypophosphite of Bary'ta. Prep. (Rose.) Boil phosphorus in a solution of baryta (baryta water) till all the phosphorus disappears and the vapours have no longer a garlic odour. Filter, evaporate, and set aside to crystallize. See Hypophosphite op Lime {below). Hypophosphite of I'ron. Prep. (Procter.) By precipitating a solution of hypophosphite of soda or ammonia with solution of sesquisulphate of iron; washing the gelatinous precipitate with care (it being somewhat soluble); and, finally, drying it into an amorphous white powder. This is freely soluble in hydrochloric and hypophosphorous acids. Hypophosphite of Lime. Prep. (Parrish.) Slake recently burned lime, 4 lb., with water, 1 gall., and mix it with water, 4 gall., just brought to the boiling temperature in a deep open boiler, stirring until a uniform milk of lime is formed ; then add phosphorus, 1 lb., and keep up the boiling constantly, adding hot water from time to time, so as to preserve the measure as nearly as may be until all the phos- phorus is oxidized and combined, and the strong odour of the gas has disappeared; then filter the solution through muslin, wash out that portion retained by the calcareous residue with water, and evaporate the filtrate till reduced to 6 pints; re-filter, to remove a portion of cai'bonate of lime resulting from the action of the air upon the solution; evaporate again until a pellicle forms, and set aside to crystal- lize—or continue the heat with constant stir- ring until the salt granulates. Obs. As spontaneously inflammable phos- phuretted hydrogen is given off during the boiling, the process must be conducted under a hood, with a strong draught or in the open air. Smaller proportions than those given by Mr. Parrish may be used. Prop. Hypophosphite of lime is a white salt, with pearly lustre, crystallizing in flattened prisms ; soluble in 6 parts of cold water, and | slightly soluble in dilute alcohol. It is the ; most important of these compounds, and when | introduced into the stomach it is supposed to be converted into phosphate of lime. It has been termed ^ chemical food.* By decomposi- tion it readily furnishes the other hypophos- phites. Hypophosphite of Magne'sia. Prep. By boiling oxalate of magnesia in solution of hypo- phosphite of lime; filtering, evaporating, and crystallizing. Hypophosphite of Potas'sa. Prep. From hypophosphite of lime, 6 oz., dissolved in water, 4 pints; and granulated carbonate of potassa, 5J oz., dissolved in water, ^ pint. Mix, filter, and wash the precipitate till the filtrate mea- sures 5 pints. Evaporate till a pellicle forms, then stir constantly, continuing the heat till the salt granulates. A white, opaque, deli- quescent body, very soluble in water and alcohol. Hypophosphite of Quinine'. Prep. (J. L. Smith,) Dissolve sulphate of quinine, 1 oz., in ivater, by the aid of diluted sulphuric acid ; pre- cipitate the alkaloid with ammonia; wash the precipitated quinine and digest it in hypophos- phorous acid with heat (the quinine being in excess); after filtering the solution, allow it to 1 evaporate spontaneously till the required salt ! crystallizes. It forms elegant tufts of soft, feathery crystals, which are soluble in 60 parts water. I Hypophosphite of So'da. Prep. From hypo- \ phosphite of lime, 6 oz., dissolved in water, 4 pints ; and crystallized carbonate of soda, 10 oz., dissolved in water, pint. Proceed as in making hypophosphite op potassa, but al- lowing 6 pints as the measure of the filtrate. If required in crystals, the granulated salt may be dissolved in alcohol sp. gr. '835, evaporated till syrupy, and set by in a warm place. Crys- tallizes in rectangular tables, with a pearly lustre ; is very soluble in water and ordinary alcohol, and deliquesces when exposed to the air. It is generally preferred to the potassa salt for medicinal purposes, as it does not absorb moisture so rapidly. HYFOPHOSTHOROUS ACID. A compound of phosphorus and oxygen, in the proportion of 31 parts (1 equiv.) of the former to 8 parts (1 equiv.) of the latter. Prep. 1. By cautiously decomposing a so- lution of hypophosphite of baryta with sulphuric acid ; filtering from the precipitate (sulphate of baryta), and evaporating. 2. By passing sulphuretted hydrogen into a solution of hypophosphite of lead ; filtering, and evaporating down. 3. By boiling phosphorus with baryta water, and as soon as the phosphuretted hydrogen has escaped, filtering, throwing dowui the barjda with dilute sulphuric acid, and again filtering and evaporating. 4. (Parrish.) Dissolve hypophosphite of lime, 480 gr., in distilled water, 6 fl. oz.; dissolve crystallized oxalic acid, 350 gr., in another por- tion of distilled water, 3 fl. oz.; mix the so- lutions, and filter the mixture through white filtering paper. Add distilled water carefully to the filtrate till it measures 10 fl. oz., and evaporate this to 8| fl. oz. “ The solution thus prepared contains about lOg of terhydrated hy- pophosphorous acid.** Prop. A viscid, uncrystallizable liquid having a strongly acid reaction. It is a powerfifi