97 ALKALIMETRY. i In commercial assays, in order to save the i necessity of any calculation, two ‘ test-acids ^ are freqtiently employed—the one for potash and the other for soda:— 3. Test-acid for Potassa:—Sp. gr. 1*070 to 1*071; 470 gr. contain 40 gr. of real sulphuric acid; 1000 gr. exactly neutralise 113 gr. of pure anhydrous carbonate of soda, or exactly I 100 gr. of pure potassa. It is labelled “ Test- I acid for Potassa.” 4. Test-acid for Soda Sp. gr. 1*086 j 310 I gr. contain exactly 40 gr. of anhydrous suU ' phuric acid; 1000 gr. exactly saturate 171 gr. of pure anhydrous carbonate of soda, or exactly 100 gr. of pure soda. It is labelled Test- > I acid for Soda.” ' Obs. The above test-acids are most conve- I niently added to the sample from a Schuster’s I alkalimeter. {See p. 23.) The loss of weight, I in grains, or the number of grs. of the test- liquid consumed, by simply pointing oft* the I right hand figure, gives theper-centage of real ALKALI in whole numbers and decimals, true I to the ^'gth of a grain. Ry very slightly reducing , the sp. gr. of these test-acids, so that 100 alkali- I meter divisions (1000 water-grains measure) I of them may possess exactly the same satu- I rating power as the 1000 grains weight above, I they may be \ised tolumetrically, in pre- i cisely the same manner as those described in I. 1, and I. 2. I 5. (Faraday.) This is a stronger acid, pre- I pared by diluting 1 part of concentrated sul- I phuric acid (sp. gr. 1*82), with about 4 parts of pure water, (both by weight,) and allowing the I mixture to cool. It has the sp. gr. 1*1268 at I 60° Fahr. 100 gr. of pure anhydrous carbonate of soda are exactly saturated by the quantity of test-acid corresponding to the mark oppo- site its name on the scale of the alkalimeter , in which it is used. 1, The glass tube here referred to, and known ' as Faraday’s alkalimeter, is graduated I centesimally, in the usual manner; but oppo- ‘ j site the numbers 22*1, 48*62, 54*43, and 65, are cut the words ‘ soda,’ * potassa,’ ‘ carbonate i of so«/a,’and ‘ carbonate of potassa,’ to indicate I the quantity! of the test-acid to be employed ; for each of these substances. (See engr.) It I is used by pouring the test-liquid into it until j it reaches the line marked against the alkali, I or carbonate, under examination, the remaining I divisions being filled up with pure water, and the whole well mixed by placing the thumb on j the orifice of the tube^’and shaking it well.2 j The measure of the resulting dilute acid must I j then be very carefully observed, and more water II added, if required, to bring it up to the zero I (0) or 1000 gr. on the scale; careful agitation i; being again employed, as before. The test- j ' That is respectively — 779-9, 513-8, 455'7, and 350 grams; as would a]>pear in the scale, n ere it graduated I as the ordinary measure, upwards, instead of downwards. I Refore removing the thumb, care must he taken to a low the liquor to drain down the sides of the tube: and also to scrape the ball of the thumb on the side of the t orifice, so as not to remove any adhering test-odd wdtli it. acid thus prepared, is then added, with the usual precautions, to the sample until exact neutralisation is effected. The quantity con sumed for this purpose, read oft* from the gra Soda Potassa . . ' . Carbonate of Soda . Carbonate of Potassa 1 dilated scale, expresses the exact per centage of the pure alkali, or of its carbonate, as the case may^ be, contained in the sample ex- amined, provided 100 gr. have been taken for the assay. Should a Faraday’s alkalimeter not be at hand, any ordinary alkalimeter capable of holding 1000 water-grains, with a gradu- ated scale, -will do as well; care being taken to measure the test-acid correctly. This acid and alkalimeter may also be ap- plied to WATER OP AMMONIA, by simply assay- ing 100 gr. of it as for potassa, and multiply- ing the per-centage result by *362. 6. (Method of F. Mohr.) The alkaline solu- tion, slightly coloured blue with ‘litmus,’ is strongly supersaturated with a standard acid (‘sulphuric’or ‘oxalic’) of known strength, supplied from an alkalimeter in the usual man- ner ; the last traces of carbonic acid being re- moved by boiling, shaking, blowing into the flask, and, finally, sucking out the air. A standard solution of caustic soda (of a strength exactly corresponding to that of the ‘test- acid’ already used) is now cautiously added, drop by drop, until tlie colour, rendered yel- lowish red by the acid, “ just appears of a light blue.” The difference between the quan- tity of the solution of the test-alkali and of the test-acid consumed, expresses the exact quantity of acid neutralised by the alkali, and hence, also its strength.! IT. From the quantity of Carbonic acid evolved during saturation:— a. Grayimetricallt ;— 1. (Method of Fresenius and Will.) This depends on the same principle, and is per- formed in a similar manner and in a similar apparatus to that described under Acidimetry, page 34; the only difference being that here the uses of the small tube (e) is dispensed with, and that the alkali is tested under the form of carbonate, instead of bicarbonate. Oper. The smaller flask (5) is about half filled with concentrated sulphuric acid, and the sample of alkali, in solution (under the form of 1 ''Ann. d, Chmic u, Pkorm.,” 86,129 7 grp. loon-