ALCOHOLATE—ALCOHOLOMETllY. 63 ments are composed—some probably having ! been made of glass, and others of brass or some other metal. In some instances the j differences are more apparent than real, as in I the Tables by Tralles and Ldwitz; in the former j of which water at its lowest sp. gr. is taken as ! the standard. Until recently the only known source of alcohol was the fermentation of sac- j charine solutions. Its production by ‘ synthe- I sis,’ though often attempted, is, however, erro- I neously said to have always failed. It had long been employed as an occasional source of bicar- buretted hydrogen at a high temperature; but j M. Berthelot succeeded in * reproducing’ it ' from bicarburetted hydrogen, by agitating the latter, in a closed vessel, with sulphuric acid and metallic mercury Journ. de Chimie j Med.,” 1855, p. 175); and Henry Flennel, j nearly 30 years before M. Berthelot’s dis- I covery, found that pure olefiant gas is absorbed by agitation with concentrated sulphuric acid, I with the formation of ‘ sulphovinic acid;’ and that by subsequent dilution with water, and -I distillation, ‘alcohol’ passes over into the re- ceiver. See Acetification, Alcoholometry, Alcohols (In chemistry). Aldehyde, Brandy, I Distillation, Fermentation, ,Gin, Rum, ! Spirit, Still, Sugar, &c. Ammo'niated Alcohol. See Spirit of Am- monia. Ni'tric Alcohol. See Nitric Acid (Alco- ! Used). j Sulphu'^ric Alcohol. See Sulphuric Acid I (Alcolised). AL'COHOLATE. Syn. Al'cohate, Al'- : COATE*; Alco’holas, L. A salt in which alcohol appears to replace the water of crystal- ' lisation; as is the case with certain chlorides, I nitrates, &c. Some of them may be formed by simple solution and crystallisation of the salt in alcohol. (Graham.) ALCOHOLIC. Syn. AlcoholTcus, L. ; Al- : COHOLIQUE, &c., Fr.; Alkoholisch, Ger. Pertaining to, containing, of the nature of, or made with, alcohol. ALCOHOL'ICA. [L.] Syn. Alcooliques, I Fr.; Weingeist-verbindungen, Ger. In pharmacy, liquids containing, or preparations made with alcohol, as a characteristic ingre- dient. See Alcohols (in Pharmacy), Alco- : OLATS, &c. ALCOHOLISA'TION (-e-za-'). [Eng., Fr.] i Syn. Alcoholisa'tio, L. ; Alcoolisation, ' &c., Fr.; Alkoholiserung, Ger. In cAem. and I pharmacy, t\ie development of the characteristic I properties of alcohol in a liquid, or the use of it I either as an addition or a menstruum; also the i act or process of obtaining alcohol from spirit I by rectification*. In alchemy, the reduction of I any substance to an impalpable powder.f ALCOHOLOM'ETER (-Ion/-). Syn. Alco- j hol'meter (-hoi'-; -hom'-J); Alcoholome'- I TRUM, L.; Alcoolometre, Alcoometre, ! Alcoholmetre, &c., Fr. An instrument or I apparatus used in alcoholometry. Alcoholo- I meters are simply ‘hydrometers’ adapted to the densities of alcohol, either concentrated or dilute. Some of these, as Baume’s, Cartier’s, &c., merely indicate the specific gravity of the sample, by the depth to which they sink in the liquid. Others, of a like construction, as those of Richter (a), Tralles (A), and Gay-Lussac (c), have their stems so gra- duated as at once to in- dicate the proportion per cent, of alcohol present, either by weight, or by volume, at some stand- ard temperature. (See engr.) A third class, as those of the Abbe Bros- SARD-Vidal, Field, &c., are essentially ‘thermo- meters,’ with scales which indicate the boiling points of spirits of different strengths, instead of the common thermometric degrees; whilst to a fourth class belong the alcoholometer of M. Silbermann, which is based upon the known rate of expansion of alcoholic liquors by heat, expressed in alcoholometric degrees ; and that of M. Geissler, which depends on the mea- surement of the tension of the vapour of the liquid, as indicated by the height to which it raises a small column of mercury. In Sykes’ HYDROMETER, uscd by officers of the Revenue, the ‘ scale ’ of the instrument is enormously extended by the use of moveable weights, with each of which it becomes, in fact, a separate instrument, adapted to a certain range of specific gravities. A very convenient alcoholometer for or- dinary purposes (d) has been lately produced by some of the instrument makers. It is of the usual form, but its stem on one side exhibits the per-centage richness of the sample in alcohol by volume; and on the other, the per-centage by weight. Thus, both results may be obtained at one trial. This instrument is sometimes called Richter’s alcoholometer, in England. A further improvement, still more recently introduced, is a similar ‘double- scale’ instrument, shewing the degrees of Sykes on one side, and carrying' a small spirit- thermometer in the bulb, to which a scale is fixed ranging from 35° to 82° Fahr. See Hydrometer, Alcoholometry, &c. ALCOHOLOM’ETRY. Syn. Alcohol'metry (-hoh- ; -hom'-J) ; SPIRIT TESTING^ ; AlCO- holme'tria, L. ; Alcoolometrie, Alcoome- TRIE, &c., Fr. In chemistry, the art or pro- cess of ascertaining the richness of spirits in alcohol. In commerce, the determination of the quantity of spirit of a ‘ certain strength,’ taken as a ‘ standard,’ present in any given sample of spirituous or fermented liquors. In England, this standard is called “proof spirit.” Hist., ^c. The great importance of being able accurately to determine the strength of spirits in the United Kingdom, on account of the high duties levied on them, has induced