PRUNING—PRUSSIAN BLUE. 1144 to cover them, and then pressed, first through a fine cane sieve, and afterwards through a fine hair sieve ; the pulp is, lastly, evaporated by the heat of a water bath to the consistence of a confection. A better plan is to use as little water as possible, by which the necessity of subsequent evaporation is avoided. Used in the preparation of confection of senna. PRU"NING varies according to the kind of plant or tree operated on, and the particular object in view, and its skilful performance must, therefore, greatly depend on the expe- rience and knowledge of the gardener. “ In the operation of pruning, the shoots are cut off close to the buds, or at a distance not greater than the diameter of the branch to be cut olf; because without the near proximity of a bud, the wounds will not heal over. In shoots which produce their buds alternately the cut is made at the back of the bud, slop- ing from it, so that it may be readily covered by the bark in the same or in the following year; but in the case of branches where the buds are produced opposite each other, either one bud must be sacrificed or the branch must be cut off at right angles to its line of direc- tion, which is most conveniently done with the pruning shears.” (Loudon.) PRURI'GO. Syn. PEUEiTrs. A papular eruption, remarkable for the incessant itching and irritation by which it is accompanied. In its milder form (peueigo mitis), the cuticle is covered with soft and smooth elevations, some- what larger than those in lichen, and differing from them by generally retaining the natural colour of the skin, and in the absence of a tingling sensation. It chiefly attacks young persons. The petjeigo senilis, as its name implies, chiefly attacks the aged. It is of a more aggravated and permanent description than the preceding, and, as the disease pro- gresses, the skin usually becomes covered with pediculi, which defy every effort made for their extermination, and keep the patient in a constant state of the most frightful irrita- tion. In PELEIGO FOEMICANS, Or ANT-BITE PEUEIGO, a still severer variety of this dis- tressing malady, the sensations experienced have been compared to that of having the flesh devoured by myriads of ants, or the skin pierced with an equal number of red-hot needles. This often occurs without any ob- vious reason in elderly persons, rendering their existence one of perpetual torture. Plato, Charles V and Charles IX of France, are re- puted to have thus suflered. “Prurigo, even in its mildest form, is a cruel and relentless disorder; all rest and repose are out of the question, and sleep im- possible, until exhaustion conquers suftering.” (Eras. Wilson.) The treatment mainly consists in the removal of visceral obstructions by alteratives and mild saline aperients. The tone of the system may be afterwards raised by a nourishing diet and the use of tonic medicine, and the irrita- tion may be often alleviated by the intern use of dilute sulphuric acid or lemon juice, ar the external employment of lotions of letnc juice or glycerine, to which a very little mo phia or chloroform may be often advantageous, added. Warm sea-bathing is frequently ha recourse to with advantage. The terms 'prurigo’ and 'pruritus’ are alii medically applied to itching and like irritatic of various parts of the body from other causi than the above disease, as worms, vermin, &c PRUS'SIAN AL'KALIf. Ferrocyanide ■ potassium. PRUS'SIAN BLUE. Syn. Beelin blu Paeis b., Feeeocyanide of ieon, Peussiai OF lEONf, Cyanijeet OF 1. f This is tl well-known blue pigment of the shops. Prep. 1. The crude but clear solution ^ FEEEOCYANIDE OF POTASSIUM (blood lye) precipitated by a mixed solution of alum, parts, and green sulphate of iron, 1 part; tl dingy greenish precipitate that falls gradual] becomes blue by absorption of atmospher oxygen, which is promoted by exposure ar. agitation of the liquor; as soon as it has a quired its full colour, the sediment is repeated washed with water, and is then drained, ar dried, at first in a stove, but afterwards c chalk stones. Product large, but inferior quality. 2. Repeatedly digest and wash the prec pitate obtained by the above process, in ve’i dilute hydrochloric acid, and then in pu water; drain and dry it, as before. Superic 3. (Paeis blue.)—a. Neutralize the soluti< of ferrocyanide of potassium (blood lye) wi dilute sulphuric acid, precipitate the liqu with a solution of any persalt or sesguisalt iron (as the persulphate, nitrate, sesquichloric or peracetate); well wash the precipitate wi water, and dry it, as before. A very rich ai intense colour. b. (Hochstatter.) Crystallized ferrocyani of potassium and green sulphate of iron, of eat 6 parts, are each separately dissolved in wait 15 parts; after the admixture of the solutioi and frequent agitation, oil of vitriol, 1 pai' and fuming hydrochloric acid, 24 parts, a stirred in; after some hours have elapsed, strained solution of 'chloride of lime’ 1 pall dissolved in water, 80 parts, is gradually addf the addition being stopped as soon as an eff< vescence from the escape of chlorine is pe ceived; the whole is now left for 5 or 6 hou when the precipitate is thoroughly wash in pure soft water, drained, and dried. ( instead of the above, the precipitate is at or washed in dilute nitric acid, until its colo ceases to be improved by the process. T product is of the finest quality. Prop. Insoluble in w'ater and in dlli, acids, except the oxalic, in solutions of whi* it dissolves freely, w^hen pure; oil of vitr dissolves it to a white pasty mass, which j again precipitated of the usual blue colour water; alkalies instantl}’^ decompose it, and