196 ANTlPERTUt5«lS—APxiTITE. I and opium and astringents to check ‘relaxation ’ and ‘ diarrhoea/ is of this nature. The anti- pathic treatment of disease is objected to by the homoeopathists, but without sufficient rea- son ; for in many cases the benefit which fol- lows its employment is too w'ell established to admit of serious doubt. See Allopathy, j Homoeopathy, Idiosynceasy, &c. : ANTIPERTUS'SIS. See Patent Medi- CTNES. I ANTIPHLOGIS'TIC (-llo-jis'-). Syn. Anti- PHLOGIS'TICrS, L.; Antiphlogistique, Er. ; Antiphlooistisch, Ger. In medicine, the common epithet of remedies, agents, and treatment, (ANTiPHLOGis'TICS; antiphlogis'- TICA, L.,) which lessen inflammatory action, or allay the excited state of the system which accompanies it. Of these the principal are bleeding, purging, a low diet, cooling beverages (as water and acidulous drinks), and sedatives generally. ANTIPITYRIENNE' (-tir-e-en'). See Haie AVashes and Patent Medicines. ANTISCORBU'TIC (-skor-bfi'-). Syn. An- TISCOEBIJ'TICUS, L. ; ANTISCOEBTJTIQrE, Fr. ; Antiscoebutisch, Gut widee den schae- j BOCK, Ger. Good against scurvy. In medi- \ cine, an epithet of remedies, agents, &c., (an- I TiscoEBu'Tics; antiscoebu'tica, L.,) used I in scurvy. Lemon juice, ripe fruit, mitk, the salts of potassa, green vegetables, potatoes, meal-bread, fresh meat, and raiv or lightly boiled eggs, belong to this class. ANTISEP'TIC. Syn. Antisep'ticus,L. ; An- : tiseptique, Fr.; Antiseptisch, Faulniss- : wideig, Ger. An epithet of substances, ! agents, &c., (antisep'tics ; antisep'tica, L.,) that impede, arrest, or prevent putrefac- tion. The principal antiseptics in common use are culinary salt, saltpetre, spices, sugar, vine- gar, charcoal, chloride of lime, creasote, and alcohol; to which may be added intense cold, desiccation, and the exclusion of air or oxygen. Among ANTISEPTIC MEDICINES, bark, dilute : acids, quinine, wine, spirits, camphor, charcoal, and yeast, take the first rank. See Putee- EACTiON, Solutions (Antiseptic), &c. ANTISPASMOD'IC (-spaz-). Syn. Anti- SPAS'TIC; AnTISPASMOD'ICUS, L. ; AntISPAS- MODiQUE, Fr.; Keampfstillend, Ger. In medicine, an ejiithet of substances and agents (antispasmod'ics ; i antispasmod'ica, L.) which allay spasms and convulsions. It is fre- quently incorrectly applied to anodynes and narcotics, which soothe pain, but do not repress muscular spasm. Ammonia, assafoetida, bark, camphor, castor, chalybeates, chloroform, ether, Indian hemp and cannabine, musk, opium, saffron, and vaterian, with many other similar substances, are regarded as antispasmodics. ANTS (ants). See Ant, Foemic Acid, Gaedening, Insects, &c. A'NUS. [L., Fr., Eng.] Syn. Aftee, Hin- TEEE, Ger. The lower extremity or oriflce of the rectum. It is the common seat of piles. See Alimentaey Canal, Peolapse, &c. ' ANURE'SIS (-U-). See Ueinaey Affec- tions. ANXI'ETY (ang-zi'-e-te). Syn. Anxi'etas, L.j Anxiete, Ademonie, Fr.; Angst, Ger. In a general sense, trouble or inquietude of mind about some future or uncertain event. In pathology, painful uneasiness and restless- ness, both of body and mind. Its marked expression in the features is a dangerous symptom in acute diseases. For the distres- sing feeling of this description often expe- rienced by the nervous, hypochondriacal, and hysterical, see Neevousness, &c. AORT'A. [L., Ger.] Syn. Aoete, Fr. In anatomy, the main trunk of the arterial system, arising immediately from the left ventricle of the heart, and giving origin to all the other arteries of the body, except the ‘ pulmonary artery ’ and its ramifications, which permeate the air vesicles of the lungs. An'eurism of the Aorta. Syn. Aneueis'ma AOET'iE, Aoeteueis'ma, L. A disease not uncommonly brought on by the excessive use of ardent spirits and fermented liquors, and by luxurious living; and hence its greater frequency in men than in women, and in drunkards than in temperate persons. When this species of aneurism has attained a certain magnitude, the tumour generally bursts, and causes death, either instantaneously, or after the lapse of a few hours, or at the most, a few days, according to circumstances. The treat- ment is wholly medical, and consists in the , adoption of those means which are best calcu- lated to lessen the action of the heart and the " volume of the blood. Violent exercise, stimu- lants of all kinds, exciting passions and emo- tions, and other agents or causes which tend to accelerate the circulation, should be most carefully avoided. See Aneueism. AORTI'TIS. [L.] In pathology, inflam- mation of the aorta. Its existence may bo suspected during life, but can only be proved by post-mortem examination. Its common and preventible causes, are external injuries, and the excessive use of hot, stimulating, acrid, spirituous, or fermented liquors. AP'ATHY (-the). Syn. Apathi'a, L.j Apathie, Fr., Ger.j Gefuhllosigkeit, &c., Ger. Indifl'erence j insensibility j absence of passion or feeling, either bodily or mental. In medicine and pathology, a morbid suspen- sion of the natural passions, emotions, and feelings, such as often occurs in low fevers and certain diseases of the brain (which sec), i AP'ATITE (-tite). In mineralogy, native phosphate of lime. It is found in Devonshire and Cornwall, and abundantly in Spain, wliencfv it is imported for use as manure, and recently particularly for the manufacture of aetificiai GUANO. Its powder phosphoresces on burn- ing coals. It difiers from phosphorite in hot containing fluoric acid. “ Apatite (phosphate of lime of similar conj stitution to bone-earth) is found in everjJ fertile soil,” (Liebig;) and, according to thi ii