193 ANTIMONY. uial powder i\vA James's powder, as a diaplioretic, ill doses of 2 to 4 gr. f Whenever much gastric or intestinal irri- tation is present, tartar-emetic should he acoided, or very cautiously administered, and tlien combined with an opiate, or some other sedative. It should also be given with caution to children; as, according to Messrs. Goodlad (and Noble, even in small doses it sometimes acts as a poison on them. I' In veterinary medicine, it is employed to i 1 promote diaphoresis and expectoration, and I to reduce arterial action, particularly in 11 ‘ fevers,’ ^ visceral inflammations,’ and ‘ catar- I rhal affections,’ the dose (for noESEs) being 20 gr. to 1 dr., or even occasionally, 1^ dr., in [ gruel, thrice daily; also sometimes as a ‘ diuretic ’ and ‘ vermifuge,’ in doses of 1 to 2 dr., combined with tin-filings, for 2 or 3 suc- , cessive days, followed by a purge of aloes. The usual dose for neat cattle is 20 gr. to 1 dr.; SHEEP, 5 or 6 to 20 gr.; swine (chiefly as an emetic), 2 to 5 or 6 gr.; DOGS (chiefly as an emetic), 1 to 3 gr. It is sometimes, though seldom, used externally, as a counter- irritant, in chest affections, &c.; but its employment thus requires caution. Pois., 8fc. That from larye doses has been already noticed under antihona' (which see). In chronic poisoning, or that arising from ‘small doses’ given repeatedly, at intervals, the principal symptoms are—continued nausea, distaste for food, vomiting of mucous and bilious liquids, great depression, watery purg- ing often followed by constipation,—small, I contracted, and frequent pulse,—feebleness or loss of voice, and of muscular strength,—cold- ness of the skin, with clammy perspiration, land, finally,—death from complete exhaustion.^ The treatment is the entire disuse of all anti- monials, followed by tonics, a light nutritious [diet, the use of lemon-juice or ripe fruit, a little wine, warm baths, and mild restoratives generally. Concluding Remarks. Each of the formula; given by the British Colleges produces an ex- cellent article of tartar-emetic; but that of the London Pharmacopoeia is the preferable one, from its embracing the most recent im- Iprovements, and being vastly superior to those ' i which have preceded it, both in the excellence jof the product, and the economy of the process; though even here, a further improvement I might be inade by substituting the ter oxide prepared by Hornung’s method, for the‘disul- Iphate.’ That of the Ph. li. 183G, although I still used by some manufacturers, is objection- |able on the same grounds. On the large scale, ash, crocus, and glass of antimony, are trequently had recourse to as cheap sources of the teroxide; but the economy of their ■ adoption is questionable, if the beauty and l>urity of the product, as well as mere quantity, be regarded. ^ See Taylor “ On Poisons", 2ml cd., 1859, j>. 539, sc., Ill confirmation. i I I In the last Loud. Pharm. the preparation of the disulphate and its conversion into tartar- emetic are included in oiie formula, although distinct processes;—for the convenience of the reader we have here given them under sepa- rate heads. See Antihonials, Antiaiony, its Teroxide, Disulphate, &c. Prepared' Antimony. See Teesulphueet OF Antimony. Pur"ging Antimony. Syn. Antimo"niu3I cathae'ticum, L. Prep. From glass of anti- mony, in powder, | lb.; digested in oil of vitriol, 1^ lb., for three days; the mixture being then evaporated to dryness, powMered, washed, dried, and melted with glauher salts, 4 oz., and sal enixum, 8 oz.; the residuum of the calcination, after being again powdered, was lastly washed and dried for use. Once esteemed the most certain and valuable of all the antimonial purges; now' seldom used in regular practice. Dose. 2 to 8 or 10 gr. Red Antimony. A mineral composed of 1 equiv. of the teroxide, with 2 eq. of tersul- phuret of antimony (SbOg, 2 SbSg). The term was formerly also frequently applied to the amorphous tersulphm*et or oxysulphuret be- fore noticed. Eeg'ulus of Antimony. Syn. Reg'ulus antjmo"nii, L. Metallic antimony obtained by fusion. Alloys formed by fusing antimony with iron, tin, lead, or copper, and a little tartar, were respectively called mae'tial EEGULUS OF ANTIMONY (/’. antimo''nii martlet- Us, L.), E. A. jotia'lis (L.), e. a. satueni'nus (L.), E. A. ten'eeis (L.), &c. See helow. Ru'by of Antimony. Syn. Medic'inal (-dis'-) EEG'ULUS OF ANTIMONY ; ANTIMO"nII EU- bTnus, Re&'ulus medicina'lis, E. a. m., &c., L. From crude sulphuret of antimony, 5 parts; fused wdth carbonate of potash, 1 part; and the purified portion separated from the scoria;. See Liter of Antimony'. Saff'ron of Antimony. See Crocus of An- timony'. Smelt'ed Antimony. Syn. Antimo"niuyi pueifica'tum, L. Crude antimony melted and poured into small conical moulds. Uses, (^'c. Same as the ordinary tersulphuret. Snow of Antimony. See Flowers of An- timony. SubhydrosuTphate of Antimony. See Kee- MES Mineral. Sul'phate of Antimony. The only compound of antimony and sulphuric acid now' employed in medicine or the arts, is the disul'phate or subsul'phate noticed below':— Prep. 1. See Teroxide of Antimon y. 2. Sulphate of a.*, Viteiola'ted A.f; ANTIM0"NII SUL'pHAS*, a. TITEIO'LUMf, L. The formula given by Van Mons is—Crude an- \timony,‘2, parts; concentrated sulphuric acid, 3 parts; stir together over a gentle fire, gra- dually raised, till it assumes a grayish-white colour; cool, powder, remove the excess of acid by washing it with water, and dry it. An insoluble sub-sulphate, notw'ithstanding its 13