ACIDIMETRY, 31 I tions (test-liqtjoes, noemal or stakdaed solutions) employed in the following pro- cesses. Baume^s Acidimeter, and others of the same class, are hydeometees, and are described under that ‘ head,’ ACIDIM'ETRY. Syn. Acidom'etet; Aci- dime'teia, &c., L. ; Acidimeteie, Fr. The estimation of the strength or quantity of acid, in a free state, contained in any liquid. It is l| the reverse of ‘ alkalimetry.’ Acidimetrical ij assays are understood to refer to the relative |l strengths of the same acids {i. e., the quantity i' of real acid of the same kind contained in the solutions examined), and not to the comparative strengths of acids of different composition or names. Acidimetrical processes. These are founded I chiefly on the capacity of the acids to satu- rate the bases; and, in some of the liquid acids, on the specific gravity, j I. From the Capacity of Saturation:— a. VoLUMETEICALLT :— 1. The sample of the acid to be examined (100 gr., or any convenient aliquot part thereof) is placed in any suitable glass vessel, and if it be one of the stronger acids, diluted with six or eight times its weight of water, or if solid (as oxalic, or citric acid), dissolved in a like quantity. This liquid is then exactly \ neutralised with an alkali. The quantity of the latter consumed for this purpose, repre- sents an equivalent quantity of acid, and thus gives us the acid content of the sample under examination. The common practice is to dissolve one equivalent of the alkaline test in water, and to make up the solution to exactly 1000 parts by measure (i. e., 1000 * water- grains ’), so as to accurately fill the 100 divi- sions of an acidimeter; when the quantity, in grains, of the sample tested, bears the same proportion to the equivalent number of the acid under examination, that the number of acidimeter divisions of the test-liquor consumed, bear to the per-centage of acid sought. Thus: —suppose 50 gr. of a sample of sulphuric acid, take 30 acidimeter divisions (300 parts or water-grains measure) of the test-liquid to neutralise it, what is its content of real acid ? —The equivalent of dry sulphuric acid is 40; and, by the rule of proportion— 50 : 40 :: 30 : 24 It therefore contains 24 per cent, of dry or real sulphuric acid. If the 1000 parts or grain-measures, instead of the number of the acidimeter divisions, be taken for the calcula- tion, it will, of course, be necessary to point ofl’ the first right-hand figure of the result as a decimal. Thus; repeating the above exam- ple— 60 : 40 :: 300 : 24*0 Or, since the equivalent of the test-liquid is 100, it will bear the same proportion to the equiv. of the acid examined, as the number of the acidimeter divisions of the test-liquid con- sumed in neutralising 100 gr., do to the per-centage sought. Thus :—50 gr. of hydro- chloric acid take 45 acidimeter divisions to effect neutralisation, what is its real strength ? —The equiv. of hydrochloric acid is 36‘5 ; therefore— 100 : 36-5 :: 45 : 16‘425^ and, since only 50 gr. (instead of 100 gr.) were examined,— 16-425 X 2 = 32-85^ Some operators prefer employing 100 gr. instead of the equivalent weights of the given tests in making their test-solutions, in which case each gr. or 1000th part represents joth, and each acidimeter degree 1 gr. of the al- kali or carbonate employed; when a similar proportion will obtain to that first above given. In technical analysis it is more convenient if the number of acidimeter divisions of the ‘test-liquid’ consumed express the per-centage strength of the acid, without further calcula- tion. For this purpose the number of grains of the acid taken for the assay should cor- respond to the equivalent number of such acid (See Table I., below); or to some convenient aliquot part of it, as the I, or ^gth; the per- centage answer, in the last case, being doubled, quadrupled, &c., according to the aliquot part taken. The reason of this is obvious. For the purposes of acidimetry, water of ammo- nia, the dry and the crystallised carbonates, and the bicarbonates of soda and of potassa, are commonly employed, the advantages and application of each of which are briefly re- ferred to below. 2. (Kiefer’s Process.) An ammoniacal solu- tion of oxide of copper is employed as the ‘ test-liquor;’ and the ‘ point of neutralisation ’ is known by the turbidity observed as soon as the free acid present is * completely satu- rated. The normal solution or test-liquor is pre- pared by adding to an aqueous solution of sulphate of copper, pure ammonia water, until the precipitate, which at first forms, is just redissolved, carefully avoiding excess. Or better, by adding a rather strong solution of sulphate of copper, to a quantity of a rather strong solution of ammonia containing exactly 17 gr., or one equiv. of pure ammonia, as long as the precipitate which forms is redissolved on agitation; the resulting liquid being after- wards diluted with pure distilled water, until it accurately measures 1000 water-grains, or fills 100 divisions of an acidimeter, at 60 Fahr. In either case, the strength of the resulting ‘test-solution’ must be carefully determined by means of standard sulphuric acid, and ad- justed, if necessary. This method answers well with all the stronger acids (excepting * o\s\\c, acid’), even when dilute; and it has the advantage of not being affected by the presence of a neutral metallic salt with an acid reaction, as sulphate