LIQUOK. 852 cool, filter, and add of rectified spirit, 5 fl. oz., and water, q. s. to make up exactly 1 quart. Obs. The first two formulae, which vai’y only in their quantities, are identical with that em- ployed hy Mr. Battley. As hard extract of opium is not always at hand, we have intro- duced a formula in which the ordinai’y* extract is ordered. It gives a precisely similar pro- duct to the others, provided the cold aqueous decoction is filtered before adding the spirit. Battley’s liqijoe opii sedatiyus is an excel- lent preparation, less exciting than opium or laudanum. Dose. 10 to 30 drops. Dr. Chris- tison states that 20 drops of Battley’s solution are equal to 30 drops of the common thiQture. Liquor of Rhu'barh. Syn. Liquor ehei, Ineusum bhei CONCENTRATU5I, L. Prep. 1. Rhubarb (well bruised), 6| oz.; water, q. s.; rectified spirit, ^ pint; proceed as for infusiojV OF CALUMBA (conc.); to produce a quart. 8 times the usual strength. 2. See Infusion of Rhubarb (Concen- trated). 3. See Extract of Rhubarb (Fluid). Liquor of Sarsaparilla. Syn. Fluid ex- tract OF SARSAPARILLA J LiQUOR SARZX:, ES- SENTIA SARSAPARILLX:, L. Prep. Either the simple or the compound liquor of sarsaparilla may be made from the corresponding decoc- tion, or, preferably, the infusion prepared with water at 125° Fahr., by carefully evaporating it until sufficiently concentrated, and then straining it through flannel, and adding a little spirit. Jamaica sarsaparilla should be alone employed, as the other varieties, espe- cially the Honduras, not only possess less me- dicinal virtue, and yield less extract, but are very liable to ferment and get mouldy, unless an undue proportion of spirit is added to them. See Extract of Sarsaparilla (Fluid). Liquor of Sen'na. Syn. Liquor senn^, L. Both the FLUID extract and the concen- trated INFUSION OF senna are called by this name, but more generally the former. The following are additional formulte :— 1. (Duncan.) Senna, 15 lb. ; boiling water, 5 gall.; proceed by the method of displace- ment, evaporate the product to 10 lb., add of molasses, 6 lb. (previously concentrated over a water bath until it begins to congeal on cool- ing), dissolve, and further add of rectified spirit, I5 pint, together with water, q. s. to make the whole measure exactly 12 pints. Every fl. oz. represents 1 oz. of senna. 2. (Dr. Tweedy.) As the last, but using tincture of ginger (prepared with rectified spirit), 1| pint, instead of the spirit there ordered. Liquor of Soap. Syn. Liquor saponis, L. See Tincture. Styp'tic Liquor. Syn. Liquor stypticus, L. Prep. (Ph. Slesvico-IIolsat. 1831.) Alum and sulphate of copper, of each, I j oz.; sul- phuric acid, 1 oz.; water, 1 lb.; dissolve, and filter. Liquor of Tarax'acum. Syn. Fluid ex- tract OF DANDELION j EXTRACTUM TARAXACI FLUiDUM, Liquor taraxaci, L. Prep. 1. Dandelion roots (dried), 28 lb., are rinsed in clean cold water, to remove dirt, and then sliced small, and macerated in enough cold water to cover them, for 24 hours; the liquid 1 is next pressed out, and after the fecula has I subsided, the clear portion is decanted, and 1 heated to 180° or 190° Fahr., to coagulate the | albumen j the liquid is then filtered while hot, •] and evaporated by steam, or preferably by a j current of warm air, until it is reduced to | 22^ lb. ; to this, rectified spirit, 6 lb., is added, < and after thorough agitation, the vessel is set ^ aside for a week or a fortnight, after which the clear portion is gently poured from the j sediment and preserved in well-closed bottles ; in a cool place. A very fine article. It re- t presents an equal weight of the root. 2. The expressed juice of dandelion is heated > to near the boiling-point, strained, and evapo- j rated, as the last, to a proper consistence •, ]th i or ith of rectified spirit is then added, and the i liquid is otherwise treated as before. Very ♦ odorous and pale coloured. 3. Dried root (coarsely powdered), 1 lb.; water, li pint; rectified spirit, -J pint; digest a week, express the liquor, pass it through a hair sieve into a bottle, and in 10 days decant the clear portion. 4. (Ph. Bor.) Extract of dandelion, 3 parts; water, 1 part (or q. s.); triturated together. 5. (W. Procter.) Fresh root, 2 lb., is sliced and reduced to a pulp, and macerated with ^th of its bulk of rectified spirit for 24 hours; it , is then subjected to strong pressure, the marc '' is treated with water containing a little spirit, ' 1 pint, and the liquid is again expressed; tbe mixed product is evaporated to 12 fl. oz., and when cold, rectified spirit, 4 fl. oz., is added, and the whole filtered. Ohs. Liquor of taraxacum has a very large sale. The dose is 1 to 2 fl. dr. See Extract. Liquor of Valerian. See Extract of Valerian (Fluid). Liquor of Vanilla. Syn. Fluid extract OF VANILLA; LiQUOR VANILLJE, ExTRACTUM V. FLUIDUM, L. Prep. 1. Vanilla (sliced), 1 lb. ; rectified spirit, 3 pints ; prepare a tinc- ture either by disidacement or maceration, and reduce it, by distillation at the lowest possible temperature, to lb.; put this into a strong bottle whilst hot, add of xvhite sugar candy (in powder), I lb., cork down, and agi- tate the whole until it is nearly cold. Very fine. Used chiefly for its odour and flavour. It represents half its weight of vanilla. 2. (\V. Procter.) Vanilla (cut into thin transverse slices), 1 oz.; sugar, 3 oz.; tritu- rate, until reduced to fine powder, put it into a strong pint bottle, along with syrup, pint; water, 2 oz.; tie down the cork, and set the bottle for half an hour in boiling water ; cool, strain, and treat the residue in a like manner with a mixture of water, 6 fl. oz., and rectified