275 BASTING—BATH. botany and medicine, denoting plants and dis- eases which resemble each other, hut are not identical; as, bastard peripneuniony, spurious inflammation of the lungs; b. pelUtory, sneeze- wort ; &c. Bas'tards (-tardz). Syn. Bas'taed sua'AE (shoog'-). Pieces, &c. In sugar-refining, im-* pure or damaged sugar resulting from the heat and chemicals used in the process of ma- nufacture, and which will not pay for puri- fying. BA"STING (baste'-). In cookery, the appli- cation of melted butter or fat, and particularly of that w'hich naturally drops from the article being dressed. See Roasting. BA"SYLE* (base'-il). In chemistry, any electro-positive substance or ingredient, simple or compound, acting as a ‘ base ’ or ^ radical.’ BAT. Syn. Flitt'ee-motjse*;}: j Vespee- riL'io (Linn.), L.; Chauve-soijeis, Fr. A ^enus of small mammals of the family Cheirop- tera, having the toes of the fore-feet extremely lengthened, and connected by a thin membrane commencing at the sides of the neck, and vhich, when expanded, enables the animal to ly. The flesh of the common bat is said to lave been used by Galen, and the oil by Avi- cenna, in gout. BATCH. Syn. Fotjenee, &c., Fr. In the 'aboratory and manufactory, the quantity of iny thing made at one time, or by one pro- cess. BATH (bahth). Syn. Bal'neum, L. ; Bain, L^r.; Bad, Ger., Sax. A place for bathing; i vessel or receptacle, natural or artificial, con- fining or adapted to contain water, and used ;o bathe in. In architecture and hygiene, a jiuilding fitted up for, and appropriated to lathing (commonly in the pi., baths). Hist. The ancient Egyptians^ and Hebrews iractised ablution and bathing; and Horner^ peatedly mentions both. Public baths were loth numerous and magnificent amongst all the nore refined nations of antiquity. The bathing ‘stablishments of the Assyrians, the ‘ gymna'sia’ )f the Greeks, and the ‘ thermae^ of the Romans, verenumerous, extensive, and sumptuous; and vere instituted with a view to the exercise ind health, as well as the enjoyment of the leople. These last were only equalled by the tupendous aqueducts which supplied them vith water.'* Authors enumerate nearly eight lundred baths in ancient Rome. Amongst he more celebrated were those of Agrippa, Vntoninus, Caracalla, Diocletian, Domitian, iero, and Titus. Those of Diocletian are aid to have been capable of accommodating, t the same time, upwards of eighteen hun- Ired bathers; and those of Caracalla, fully hree thousand. “ The vestiges of these stu- lendous buildings indicate the amazing magni- icence of the age in which they were erected. 1 Exocl. ii, 5; &c, * l.evit. XIV, 8 ; &c. * "Iliad," xxii, 444, &c,; 'Odyssey* viii, 451, &c. I * See yuge 203. Their pavements were mosaic; the ceilings vaulted, and richly gilded and painted; the walls encrusted with the rarest marbles. Many examples of ancient Greek sculpture have been restored to the w'orld from these edifices. It was from the recesses of these buildings that Raphael took the hint for his decorations of the Vatican; and largely from these resources drew the first restorers of art.”® The marble Laoc'oon was found in the baths of Titus; and the Farnese bull and the famous Hercules, in those of Caracalla.® Pei- VATE BATHS Were also general during the same period; and their construction and de- corations were marked by a degree of refine- ment, taste, and luxury, which appears now absolutely astonishing. Not merely did the palaces of the patricians, and the mansions of the opulent, contain them; but even the houses of almost every respectable freedman.^ The subsequent neglect and decay of the Roman thermae, after the inroads of the barbarians, must be familiar to the reader. According to Freind, when Alexandria was taken by the Saracens (a.d. 640), it contained upwards of 4000 baths.® Constr., &^c. Here one of the first subjects which must engage our attention is—the select tion of the material of which the bath is to be formed. For fixed baths polished white marble has always been in favour, owing to its cleanliness and beauty. For this purpose, slabs of sufficient thickness and free from flaws or cracks should be chosen; and they should be securely and properly ‘ bedded ’ in good water-tight cement, in a well-seasoned wooden case. The objections to marble, independent of its costliness, are, that it is apt to get yellow or discoloured, and to lose its polish, by fre- quent and careless use; and that the restoration of its surface to its original purity, is a matter ' of considerable expense and difficulty. It is also only fitted to contain water with, at the most, soap, weak alkalies or alkaline carbon- ates, aromatics, or neutral organic principles; and cannot be employed with water medicated, however slightly, with acids, sulphurets, iodine, chlorine, salines (others than those just named), or colorific substances. As a ‘ cheaper material’ thick slabs of Welsh slate are often substituted for marble; but even this substance is attacked by chemicals, though much more slowly. A lining of large Butch tiles is sometimes used; but here the joints are very apt to leak. For baths adapted to all the requirements of health and disease, and which are at the same time durable and comparatively inexpensive, we must, therefore, seek further. Porcelain, glass, and hard-glazed stone-ware have been proposed, and are even sometimes used for baths; but they possess the disadvantages of being fra- * "Diet, of Arts, S., and Lit.," 1842. 8 See Cameron’s “ Roman Baths," Eustace’s “ Classical Tour," M. Lagneau’s “ Truite Complet drs Bains," ^c. See the works of Seneca, Martial, and otliers, 8 "Hist. vfPhysicki" London, 1727.