408 CELLULOSE—CEMENT. CEL'LULOSE. See Lignin. CEMENT'. Syn. Cement'um, L. Any sub- stance which, when applied to the surfaces of other bodies, causes them to adhere together when placed in contact. Those referred to below are amongst the most useful prepara- tions of this class. The term cement is also applied by builders and architects to several species of mortars and like compositions em- ployed either to unite stones and bricks into masses, or as a protective covering against the weather or water, or to make statues, cornices, and similar ornamental articles. In general, the thinner the stratum of in- terposed cement, the stronger is the junction of the surfaces operated on. This caution is necessary, as in their anxiety to unite broken articles persons generally defeat themselves, by spreading the cement too thickly on the edges of the fracture; whereas the least pos- sible quantity should be used, so as to bring the edges as close as possible together. ATabaster Cement. 1. From plaster of Paris (in fine powder), made into a cream with water, and at once applied. 2. Yellow resin, 2 parts; melt, and stir in plaster of Paris, 1 part. 3. Yellow resin, lees’ wax, and plaster of Paris, equal parts. 4. Resin, 8 parts; wax, 1 part; melt and stir m plaster of Paris, 4 parts, or q. s. 5. Sulphur or shellac, melted with sufficient plaster of Paris or colouring matter to give the desired shade. Used to join or mend pieces in alabaster, white marble, Derbyshire sjjar, porphyry, and other like substances; and to fill up cracks, supply chips out of corners, &c. The last four are applied hot, the surfaces to be unitetl having been previously warmed. Architect'ural Cement. 1. Yrompaper {re- duced to a smooth paste by boiling it in water), sifted whiting, and good size, equal parts, boiled to a proper consistence. 2. Paper paste, size, and 2)laster of Paris, equal parts; as before. Obs. This is a species of papier-mache. It is used to make architectural ornaments, busts, statues, columns, &c. It is very light, and receives a good polish, but will not stand the weather unless it is well varnished or painted. Arme'nian Cement. Syn. Diamond cement, Persian c., Turkish c.. Jeweller’s c. The jewellers of Turkey, who are mostly Ar- menians, have a singular method of orna- menting watch-cases, &c., with diamonds and other precious stones, by simply gluing or cementing them on. The stone is set in silver or gold, and the lower part of the metal made fiat, or to correspond with the part to which it is to be fixed; it is then gently warmed, and the glue is applied, which is so very strong that the parts thus cemented never separate. This glue will strongly unite pieces of glass and china, and even polished steel, and may be applied to a variety of useful purposes. Prop.!. (Original Armenian formula; Eton.) Dissolve five or six bits of gum mastic, each the size of a large pea, in as much rectified spirit of wine as will suffice to render it liquid; and, in another vessel, dissolve as much isin- glass, previously a little softened in water (though none of the water must be used), in French brandy or good rum, as will make a two-ounce phial of very strong glue, adding two small bits of gum galbanum or ammonia- cum, which must be rubbed or ground till they are dissolved. Then mix the wdiole with a sufficient heat. Keep the glue in a phial closely stopped, and when it is to be used set the phial in boiling water. 2. (Keller’s Armenian Cement.) Soak isinglass, \ oz., in water, 4 oz., for 24 hours; evaporate in a ivater bath to 2 oz.; add rec- tified spirit, 2 oz., and strain through linen; mix this, whilst warm, with a solution formed by dissolving yum mastic (best), i oz., in rec- tified spirit, 2 oz.; add of powdered gum am- moniac, 1 dr., and triturate together until per- fectly incorporated, avoiding loss of the spirit by evaporation as,much as possible. 3. (Ure’s Diamond Cement.) Isinglass, 1 oz.; distilled water, 6 oz.; boil to 3 oz., and add rectified spirit, 1^ oz.; boil for a minute or two, strain, and add, while hot, first a milky emulsion of ammoniac, i oz., and then tincture of mastic, 5 dr. 4. Isinglass soaked in water and dissolved in spirit, 2 oz. (thick); dissolve in this 10 gr. of very pale gum ammoniac (in tears), by rubbing them together; then add 6 large tears of gum mastic, dissolved in the least possible quan- tity of rectified spirit. 5. Isinglass dissolved in proof spirit (as above), 3 oz.; bottoms of mastic varnish (thick, but clear), oz.; mix well. Obs. When carefully made, this cement resists moisture and dries colourless. As usually met with, it is not only of very bad quality, but sold at exorbitant prices. “ Some persons have sold a composition under the name of Armenian cement in England; but this composition is badly made: it is much too thin, and the quantity of mastic is much too small.” (Eton.) Methylated spirit may bo used instead of the pure spirit in the above preparations. Mastic and mastic varnish are also used by jewellers as cements. Beale’s Cement. Chalk, 60 parts; lime and salt, of each, 20 parts; Barnsey sand, 10 parts; iron filings or dust, and blue or red clay, of each, 5 parts; grind together and calcine. Patented as 'a. fire-proof cement. Boil'er Cement. Prep. Dried clay in pow- der, 6 lb.; iron filings, 1 lb. Make into a paste with boiled linseed oil. Used to stop cracks and leaks in iron boilers, stoves, Ac. See Iron Cement, Steam-boiler C. Bot'any Bay Cement. Yellow gum (Botaiiy Bay gum) and briclcdust, equal parts, melted together. Used to cement coarse earthenw'are, &c. Eot'tle Cement. Prop. 1. P-esin, 1 lb.;