352 BRASS COLOUR—BRAWN. of zinc’ collected, washed, dried, and ignited. Every 40 gr. of this oxide contains 32 gr. of metallic zinc. Concluding Remarks. In the adoption of his formula the operator should be entirely led by the object he has in view. The‘larger’ the proportion of copper, the deeper will be the colour, and the greater the density, and, within certain limits, the toughness of the alloy. Zinc lessens the specific gravity and colour. Tin gives it hardness and grain; whilst lead toughens it, and renders it fitter for turning. These facts are known to every experienced brass-founder. See Allots, Cop- PEE, Mosaic Gold, Peince’s Metal, Tombac, &c. BRASS'-COLOUR. Syn. Beass-pigment, B.-beonze. Prep. 1. Grind copper filings, or the precipitated powder of copper, with a little red ochre. Red-coloured. 2. Gold-coloured brass, or Dutch leaf, reduced to a • very fine powder. YeUow or gold- coloured. Obs. Before application these powders are mixed up with pale varnish, no more being worked up at once than is wanted for imme- diate use. They are also applied by dusting them over any surface previously covered with varnish to make them adhere. BRASS PASTE. Prep. 1. Soft soap, 2 oz. ; rotten-stone, 4 oz.; beaten to a paste. 2. Rotten-stone made into a paste with sweet oil. 3. Rotten-stone, 4 oz.; oxalic acid (in fine powder), 1 oz.; sweet oil, oz.; turpenline, q. s. to make a paste. Obs. The above are used to clean brass- work, when neither varnished nor lacquered. The first and last are best applied with a little water; the second, with a little spirit of tur- penline or sweet oil. Both require friction with soft leather. See Beass-woek, Pastes, &c. BRASS STAIN. Prep. 1. Sheet-brass (cut into small pieces), is exposed to a strong heat for 2 or 3 days, then powdered, and again further exposed in a like manner for several days; the whole is then reduced to fine pow- der, and exposed, a third time, to heat, testing it occasionally, to see if it be sufficiently burnt. When a little of it fused with glass makes the latter swell and froth up, the process is com- plete. It imparts to glass a green tint, passing into turquoise. 2. Equal parts of plate-brass and sulphur are stratified together in a crucible, and calcined, until they become friable; the whole is then reduced to powder, and exposed to heat as before. This imparts a calcedony red or yellow tinge to glass by fusion; the precise shade of colour being modified by the mode of using it. Obs. The common practice in the glass- houses is to conduct the calcination by exposing the metal, placed on tiles, in the ‘leer’ or ‘ annealing arch ’ of the furnace ; a plan both convenient and economical. BRASS'-WORK. Articles of brass and copper, when not varnished or lacquered, may be CLEANED and POLISHED with sweet oil and tripoli, rotten-stone, or powdered bath-brick, applied with friction, on flannel, and ‘finished otf’ with leather; due care being taken to ensure the absence of any thing gritty, which would scratch and disfigure the surface of the metal. A strong solution of oxalic acid in water gives brass a fine colour. Vitriol and spirits of salts make brass and copper very bright, but the polish thus obtained soon tar- nishes, and the articles consequently require more frequent cleaning. A strong lye of roche- alum and water also improves the appearance of brass. In all cases where acids, or saline matter, has been used, the metal should be at once well rinsed in clean water, and then wiped dry, and finally dry polished with soft leather. Beass inlaid-woek may be cleaned with tripoli and linseed oil, applied by a rubber of felt or leather; the whole being afterwards thoroughly ‘rubbed off,’ and then ‘finished’ with clean soft leather. The ornaments of a ‘ French clock,’ and similar articles, are said to be best cleaned with bread-crumb, carefully rubbed, so as not to injure the wood-work. Oe- MOLH CANDLESTICKS, LAMPS, and BEANCHES, may be cleaned with soap-and-water. Lac- QHEEED and GILDED AETiCLES are spoiled by frequent rubbing, and by acids and alkaline leys. A ‘fine colour’ may be given to beass OENAMENTS, when not gilt or lacquered, with a little sal ammoniac, in fine powder, moist- ened with soft water. The articles must be afterwards rubbed dry with bran and whiting. Another plan is to wash the brass-work with a strong lye of roche alum (1 oz., to water 1 pint), and after rinsing it in clean water and drying it, to ‘ finish it otf ’ with fine tripoli. 'These processes give to brass the brilliancy of gold. See Beass Paste {above). BRASS'ING. Syn. Beass-coating. 1. Copper-plates and copper-rods may be covered with a superficial coating of brass, by simply exposing them, in a heated state, to t\x& fumes given off by melted zinc at a high temperature. The coated plates and rods are rolled into thin sheets or drawn into wire. The spurious gold wire of Lyons is said to be made in this way. 2. Vessels of copper may be coated with brass, internally, by filling them with water strongly .soured with hydrochloric acid, adding some amalgam of zinc and cream of tartar, and then boiling the whole for a short time. 'This plan may be usefully applied in certain cases to copper boilers in laboratories, and to other purposes. 3. By the electrotype (which see). BRAWN. A boar or its flesh. When young, the horny parts feel moderately tender. If the rind is hard, it is old. (Mrs. Rundell.) Also, in cookery, the flesh of the boar, or of swine, collared so as to squeeze out as much of the fat as possible, boiled, and pickled. ■i I X i 1 i i 11 !, \