POWDER. 1133 i p/cMC, 3^ oz.; ginger^ \ oz. ; (all in fine pow- jar;) mix by careful trituration. JDose. 20 to 0 gr.; as a purgative in habitual costiveness, |ropsies, &c.; also in worms, the tumid bellies ‘children, &c. 4. (PULVIS LENITITTJSj SaCEE OEANGE [JEGATiF.) From refined sugar, f lb. ; jalap lid cream of tartar, of each, 2 oz.; oil of 'ange peel, i oz. A popular purgative on the 'ontinent. Bose. 1 to 3 dr. j James’s Powder. Syn. Pulyis Jacobi, P. [ebeifugus Jacobi, L. The antimonial joWDEE, or COMPOUND POWDEE OF ANTIMONY, f the Pharmacopoeias (see above) is the pre' ^ration which usually passes under this name; |ut the true James's powder is a nostrum the' li-etended secret of the preparation of which ' ' claimed to be possessed by only two parties , !i the kingdom. The patent specification of le once celebrated Dr. James runs as fol- iws:— I “Take of antimony, calcine it with a con-; nued protracted heat, in a flat, unglazed irtben vessel, adding to it, from time to time, sufficient quantity of any animal oil and salt, ell dephlegmated; then boil it in melted nitre >r a considerable time, and separate the pow- \er from the nitre by dissolving it in water.” n this it has been remarked that it yields product totally diflferent from that which 'r. James and his successors have sold under le name, and he has hence been charged with iincealing the real formula for his powder, and jublishing a false one in its stead. According to Dr. Robinson, the original! prmula for this nostrum, and that still -lopted by the vendors of the proprietary rticle at the present day, is—Tartarized anti- mony, 1 part; prepared burnt hartshorn and i of antimony, of each, 5 parts; carefully 1 lixed together, and divided into 21-gr. pow- ers. (‘Phil. Journ.Pharm.,’ vi, 282.) 1 From analyses recently made of three specl- leus of James’s powder (‘Newberry’s,’ ‘But- 'r’s,’ and a sample 60 years old obtained by Ir. Squire), it appears that antimonious acid as present in different proportions, from bout 45g to 33g, the amount being greatest in lie old specimen; teroxide of antimony was Iso present to the extent of from 9g to less ban Ig, the greatest quantity being again in be old preparation; the remainder in each | .lecimen consisted chiefly of phosphate of lime; j 0 trace of tartaric acid was discoverable in iiy of the samples. Perhaps no nostrum ever received such ex- ensive patronage from the faculty as James’s owder. Dr. James was himself remarkably uccessful in its use; but whether his success epended upon his powder or the mercurials lid bark which he commonly employed at the ame time, is still undetermined. Powder of Ki'no (Compound). Syn. Pulyis INO COMPOSITUS (Ph. L.), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) vuio, 15 dr.; cinnamon, 4 dr.; dried opium, • tlr.; reduce them separately to fine powder, and then mix them. Bose. 5 to 20 gr.; in diarrhoea, pyrosis, &c. Lausanne Powder. Prep. From nitre, 1-^ dr.; carbonate of magnesia, bitartrate of potassa, precipitated sulphur, and oleosaccharum of pep- permint, of each, 4 dr.; sugar of milk, 1 oz. Lenitive and antidysenteric. Lax'ative Powder. See Species. Powder of Liq'uorice (Compound). Syn. Pulyis glycyeehizje compositus, L. Prep. (Ph. Bor.) Liquorice root and senna leaves, of each, 6 oz.; fennel seed and milk of sulphur (pure), of each, 3 oz.; white sugar, 18 oz.; (all in fine powder;) mix. Pectoral and laxative. Powder of Magne'sia and Ehu'barb. See Compound Rhubaeb Powdee {below). Martin’s Can'cer Powder. An American nostrum, composed of the powdered stems of the Orobanche Virginiana (Linn.), combined with a very small quantity of arsenious acid. It is used as a sprinkle for open cancers and cancerous sores. Mercu"rial Powder. Syn. Meecuey with CHALK. In addition to the authorised formulae given at page 908, the following may be found useful:—Take of mercury, 3 oz.; powdered resin, | oz.; prepared chalk, 5 oz.; rectified spirit, q. s.; make a paste with the resin and a small quantity of the spirit; add the mer- cury, which may be extinguished in a short time; then the chalk and alcohol, gradually, so as to keep up the pasty consistence; lastly, add siifficient spirit to dissolve out the resin, wash the powder on a filter, and dry it. Rec- tified oil of turpentine may be substituted for the spirit. Milk Powder. (See page 914.) Morison’s Ape"rient Powder, See Patent Medicines. Powder of Mush'room. Syn. Pulyis agaeici, P. A. ESCULENTI, L. Froiu edible mushrooms, dried by a gentle heat, and then powdered along with a little white pepper, cloves, and mace. Some cayenne is frequently added. Powder of Mus'sel. From the Mytilus edulis (Linn.), or common mussel, in the same way as OYSTEE powdee. Powder of Myrrh (Compound). Syn. Pulyis E myeeha compositus, L. Prep. (Ph. L. 1788.) Myrrh, dried savine, dried rue, and Russian castor, equal parts, rubhed to powder, and then well mixed. Emmenagogue and antispasmodic. Bose. 12 to 30 gr. Nur'seryPowder. SeeViOLETPowDEE {below). 0"piated Powder. Powder of chalk with opium. (See page 1030.) Powder of Oys’ter. Syn. Pulyis ostee.e, L. Prep. From the common oyster {Ostrea edulis—Linn.), pulped through a sieve, made into a paste with wheaten f our and a little salt, and then rolled out into thin pieces and dried; these are reduced to powder, sifted, and packed in well-corked bottles. Used to make sauce; about 1 oz., to water, 1 pint. Other shell-fish are treated in the same way. ^Pea Powder. Syn. Pea floue; Faeina