ABSINTHATE—ABSINTHIUM. 6 escape of the matter. This dressing must he renewed twice a day. A light, nutritious diet, of which the fresh red-meats and vegeta- bles are in reasonable proportion, should he now adopted, with the use of a little wine or mild ale; and the bowels should he kept in regular action daily, but not relaxed. When, however, the abscess is large, and the secretion of matter considerable, or persistent, it will be necessary to support the patient with tonics (as hark or quinine), a full diet, and a liberal allowance of wine, or mild ale or porter. When a mature, or nearly mature abscess is situate in any part of the body where its presence might be productive of serious injury from pressure or diffusion, or when, after maturation, it evinces no disposition to burst and discharge its contents, even on pressure, the proper course is to open it with an instrument. For this purpose, a lancet, or, in very trifling cases, even a common steel- needle, may be used; but when the abscess is large, a scalpel or bistoury, or, according to Mr. F^gusson, the knife with a slightly curved point, and double cutting-edge, known as Syme’s ‘abscess lancet,’ is the most con- venient instrument. The period of maturity or completion of suppuration, may generally be known by the tumour becoming very soft to the touch, and forming, what is popularly called, a ‘ head,’ where the skin is thinnest, and the matter, in technical language, is said ‘ to point.’ It is at this part that the incision should be made, and, usually, in the longer axis of the swelling. In ordinary cases, the instrument being held in the hand somewhat like a pen (or, if a lancet, by its blade between the thumb and forefinger), and the little finger resting on the surface, nearly as in writing, the point is thrust through the skin, and the opening enlarged by carrying the knife or lancet in both directions from the puncture, until the interior of the abscess is freely exposed. It then requires the same dressing, &c., as one that bursts naturally. Chronic abscesses usually require to be opened earlier than ‘ acute’ ones; but in other respects their treatment is similar. Beep-seated ab- scesses and those lying near tender organs, as well as large ones occurring in persons of a cachectic habit of body, require to be operated on with great delicacy and care, lest the underlying or neighbouring parts may be injured, or the system may fail to bear up against the extensive inflammation, and its consequences, which may, perhaps, ensue. The opening of abscesses that burse naturally, frequently require enlargement with an instru- ment, to permit the free and complete escape of the matter. Open abscesses that refuse to heal, and become ulcerous, may be advan- tageously dressed, and treated externally, as ‘ ulcers.’ See Inflammation, SnpprEATiON, Tumoijes, &c. ABSINTH'ATE.'[Eng.,Fr.] Syn, Absinth'- AS, L. See Absinthic Acid. ABSINTHE (-sen[i^]t'). [Fr.] See Ab- SiNTHiUM and Liqtjeues. ABSINTHIC ACID. Syn. Acidum Ab- sinth'ichm, li.’, Acide Absinthique, Fr. A substance found by Braconnot in ar- temisin absinthium, or common wormwood; in which it exists under the form of absin- THATE OF POTASSA. Prep. 1. To a watery infusion of the plant, add a solution of acetate of lead; wash the precipitate in pure cold water, suspend it in distilled water contained in a tall, narrow glass vessel, and pass sulphuretted hydrogen gas through the liquid until all the lead is thrown down in the state of sulphuret; lastly, decant, filter, and evaporate. The product is the ‘ crude acid ’ mixed with absinthine, which can only be removed in the manner noticed below. Prop., Very sour; uncrystallisable; deliquescent. Its salts with the bases are called absinth'ATES, some of which are crys- tallisable. Those of the alkalies may be formed by directly saturating the acid with the base ; the others, by double decomposition, from solutions of absinthate of ammonia or potassa and the salts of the metallic oxides. Absinthate of ammonia occurs in quadri- lateral prisms, insoluble in alcohol. Absinthic acid closely resembles impure succinic acid, if it be not identical. ABSINTHINE (-in). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ab- sinthTn ; Absinth'ina, Absinth'ia (-y’a), L. A substance found by Caventou in common wormwood, and called by him its ‘pure bitter principle.’ Prep. 1. Digest crude absinthic acid (of the last process) in a mixture of alcohol and ether, and abandon the solution to spontaneous evaporation. The brown product may be purified by re-solution in alcohol, digestion with animal charcoal, and careful re- evaporation. 2. Exhaust dried wormwood, in coarse powder, with alcohol of the sp. gr. *863; filter the resulting tincture, and reduce it, by distillation, to the consistence of a syrup; transfer this to a stoppered bottle, and well agitate it with ether ; after repose remove the ether with a syringe, and repeat the process several times, or until the ether fails to take up anything; gently distil off the ether from the mixed ethereal tinctures, and digest the residuum in very weak ammonia water, to remove a little brown resin; lastly, dissolve it in alcohol, and crystallise. Prop., Sfc. White, semi-crystalline, soluble in alcohol and in ether, and very bitter. Its physiological effects resemble those of extract of wormwood. Bose. ^ gr. to 2 gr., or more ; in dyspepsia; as a stomachic, to promote the appetite, &c.; as a substitute for quinine in intermittents ; and in worms. ABSINTHI'TES (-tez). [L.] Wine flavoured with wormwood. ABSINTH'IUM. [L.] Syn. Absinthe, Fr.