778 INK. their colour or turn black by exposure to tbe air, are, in general, prepared from ferrocyanide of potassium, or from indigo, and are fully no- ticed in another place. ‘ Copying ink,’ ano- ther variety of ink of recent introduction, is characterised by its suitableness to metallic pens, and by furnishing a transcript by means of the ‘ copying press’ or ^ copying machine.’ (See below.) The inks prepared by the first four of the above formula) are very durable and limpid, and will bear dilution with nearly an equal bulk of water, and still be superior in quality to the ordinary inks of the shops. See Galls, Ikon, Whiting Fluid, and below. Blue and Blue-black Ink. See Weiting Fluid. Brown Ink. 1. A strong decoction of catechu; the shade may be varied by the cautious addition of a little weak solution of bichromate of potash. 2. A strong decoction of logwood with a very little bichromate of potash. Chrome Ink. See Geeen Ink and Weiting Fluid. Col'oured Ink. Inks of various colours may be made from a strong decoction of the in- gredients used in dyeing, mixed with a little alum or other substance used as a mordant, and gum arabic. Any of the ordinary water- colour cakes employed in drawing, diffused through water, may also be used as coloured ink. See Beown, Geeen, and Red Inks, &c. Cop'ying Ink. This is usually prepared by adding a little sugar or other saccharine matter to ordinary black ink, which for this purpose should be very rich in colour, and preferably made of galls prepared by heat, as noticed above. Writing executed with this ink may be copied within the space of 5 or 6 hours, by passing it through a press (COPYING peess) in contact with thin unsized paper (‘bank post’), slightly damped, enclosed between two sheets of thick oiled or waxed paper, when a reversed transcript will be obtained, which will read in proper order when the back of the copy is turned upwards. In the absence of a press, a copy may be taken, when the ink is good and the writing very recent, by roll- ing the sheets, duly arranged on a ruler, over the surface of a flat smooth table, employing as much force as possible, and avoiding any slipping or crumpling of the paper. Another method is to pass a warm flat-iron over the paper laid upon the writing. The following proportions are employed:— 1. Sugar candy or lump sugar, 1 oz.; or treacle or moist sugar, oz. j rich black ink, 1| pint; dissolve. 2. Malt wort, 1 pint; evaporate it to the consistence of a syrup, and then dissolve it in good black ink, I3 pint. 3. Solazza juice, 2 oz.; mild ale, ^ pint; dissolve, strain, and triturate with lampblack (previously heated to dull redness in a covered vessel), i oz.; when the mixture is complete. add of strong black ink, I| pint, mix well, and in 2 or 3 hours decant the clear. Obs. After making the above mixtures, they must be tried with a common steel pen, and if they do not fiow freely, some more unprepared ink should be added until they are found to do so. Gold Ink. From gold in the state of an impalpable powder, ground up with a little gum water. The brilliancy of the writing performed with this ink is considerable, and may be increased by burnishing. Green Ink. 1. From sap green dissolved in very weak alum water. 2. A strong solution of binacetate of copper in water, or of verdigris in vinegar. 3. (Klaproth.) Verdigris, 2 oz.; cream of tartar, 1 oz.; water, a pint j boil to one half, and filter. 4. (Winckler.) Bichromate of potassa, 3 parts; hot water, 8 parts; dissolve, add of rectified spirit, 4 parts, mix, and further add of sulphuric acid, q. s. to liberate the chromic acid, avoiding excess; next evaporate to one half, dilute with water, filter, and add to the filtrate rectified spirit, 4 parts, together with 3 or 4 drops of sulphuric acid (if required), to precipitate any remaining potash-salt; lastly, decant and preserve the liquid until it assumes a rich green colour. 5. A solution of recently precipitated hy- drated oxide of chromium in liquor of am- monia, diluted with distilled wader, q. s. A magnificent dark-green lic^uid, perfectly anti- corrosive. Horticultural Ink. Prep. 1. Chloride of platinum, ^ oz.; soft water, 1 pint; dissolve, and preserve it in glass. Used with a clean quill to write on zinc labels. It almost imme- diately turns black, and cannot be removed by washing. The addition of gum and lamp- black, as recommended in certain books, is unnecessary, and even prejudicial to the quality of the ink. » 2. Verdigris and sal ammoniac, of each, ^ oz.; levigated lampblack, ^ oz.; common vinegar, \ pint; mix thoroughly. Used as the last, for either zinc, iron, or steel. 3. Blue vitriol, 1 oz. ; sal ammoniac, i oz.; (both in powder); vinegar, \ pint; dissolve. A little lampblack, or vermilion may be added, but it is not necessary. As No. 1; for iron, steel, or tin plate. Some of the prepa- rations described below under ‘ Incoeeodible Ink’ are also used by gardeners and nursery- men. Incorro"dible Ink. This name has been given to several preparations of a resinous character, capable of resisting*the action of damp and acids. Prep. 1. Boiled linseed oil, ground uuth lampblack and Prussian blue, of each, q. s. to impart a deep-black colour. It may be thinned with oil of turpentine. 2. Good copal or amber varnish, coloured with either plumbago or vermilion.