321 BIXINE—BLACK DYE. Prop., ^'‘c. When pure, a rich deep-red ' powder, soluble in alcohol and in alkalies, and ! turned blue by sulphuric acid. It appears to : be oxidised bixine. I BIX'DIE (-in). The yellow colouring-prin- \ ciple of annotta. I Prep. A solution of annotta is precipitated ! with a solution of acetate of lead ; the precipi- tate, after having been washed in cold water, \ is decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen the i ‘decanted liquor’ or ‘filtrate’ yields crystals } by cautious evaporation. Prop., ^c. Yellowish white, turning full yellow by exposure to air; soluble in water, I and freely so in alcohol and in alkaline solu- : tions; by oxidation it is converted into hixeine. For a correct knowledge of both of these sub- stances we are indebted to M. Preisser. , BLACK. Syn. A'tee^, Ni'geb, L. ; Nom, I Fr.; SCHWAEZ, Ger.; Blac, Bljec, Sax. In 1 dyeing, 8^c., of the colour of lamp-soot, or of I night j subst., a black colour. Black Ash. The waste lye of the soapmaTcers j is evaporated in large iron-boilers, the ‘salt’ I separated as it falls down, and then heated in a reverberatory furnace until it is partially decomposed and fused, when it is run into i iron-pots to cool. It is used in the manufac- I ture of alum and common soap. ' Black CoPours (kiil'-). See Black Pia- ; MEETS. Black Draught. See Senna Mixtttee (Com- I pound). I Black Drop. See Deops, Patent Medi- cines, &c. BLACK DYE. Syn. Teinte noiee, Fr.; I ScHWAEZE EAEBE, Ger. The following are I the processes and materials now commonly em- I ployed in dyeing black:— a. For Cotton :— 1. The ‘goods,’ previously dyed blue, are : steeped for about 24 hours in a decoction of ‘ galUnuts or sumach, then drained, rinsed in water, and passed through a bath of acetate of iron for a quarter of an hour; they are next 1 again rinsed in water, and exposed for some time to the air; after which they are passed a ! second time through the bath, to Avhich a little ' more iron-liquor is previously added. The whole process is repeated, if necessary, accord- ing to the intensity of the shade of black desired. 2. The ‘ goods’ are steeped in a mordant of I acetate of iron, ‘ worked’ well, and then passed I through a bath of madder and logwood for 2 hours. Less permanent than No. 1. Obs. About 2 oz. of coarsely powdered galls, or 4 oz. of sumach, are required for every I pound of cotton, in the process of ‘galling.’ The first should be boiled in the water, in the proportion of about ^ gal. of water to every lb. of co//on. The sumach-bath is better made by mere infusion of that dye-stuff in very hot 1 water. 3. (For 10 lb. of cloth.) The ‘goods’ are ^ As described under Absintuic Acid (p. 6). ^ Black, deep black; as opposed to albus, white. put into a boiling bath made of 3 lb. of sumach, and allowed to steep, with occasional ‘ working,’ until the liquor is perfectly cold; they are next passed through lime-water, and, after having drained for a few minutes, immediately transferred to and ‘worked’ for an hour in a warm solution of 2 lb. of copperas; after free exposure to the air, for about an hour, they are again passed through lime-water, and, after draining, ‘ worked’ for an hour in a bath made with 3 lb. of logwood, and 1 lb. of fustic; they are then ‘ lifted,’ and \ lb. of copperas being added, they are returned to the bath, ‘ worked’ well for about 30 minutes, and finished. Good and deep. Obs. Instead of ‘copperas’ iron-liquor may be used, observing to take 1^ pint of the latter (of the ordinary strength) for every lb. of the former ordered above. b. For Flax and Linen ;— This, for the most part, closely resembles that employed for ‘cotton’; but, in some cases, a mordant of iron-liquor, or of copperas, followed by passing the ‘ goods’ through lime- water, and exposure to the air, precedes the dye-bath. c. For Silk :— Silk ‘goods’ are dyed much in the same way as woollens, but the process is conducted with less heat:— 1. A bath of nut-galls is given for 12 to 36 hours, occasionally working the ‘goods’ therein; they are next taken out, rinsed, and well aired, after which they are passed for a few minutes through a bath containing sul- phate of iron, and are then again drained, rinsed, and aired. The steep in the nut-gall bath may be repeated, if necessary, followed, as before, by the iron-bath previously reple- nished with a little fresh copperas. The whole quantity of galls to be taken for 1 lb. of silk, varies with their quality from ^ to f lb., that of the copperas (for the first bath), from 3 to 4 oz. 2. (For 1 cwt. of silk^ Boil 22 lb. of bruised Aleppo-galls, for 2 hours, in 90 to 100 gal. of water, observing to add ‘boiling water’ from time to time, to compensate for that lost by evaporation; to the clear bath add 32 lb. of copperas, 7 lb. of iron-filings, and 21 lb. of gum ; digest with agitation, for 1 hour, and when the ingredients are dissolved, pass the silk (previously prepared [‘ galled’] with |rd of its weight of gall-nuts) through the bath for about an hour; then rinse and air it well; next leave it in the dye-bath for 6 to 12 hours; and this immersion or steep may be repeated, if necessary, at will. This is said to be the pro- cess commonly adopted for velvet at Genoa and Tours. 3. (For 5 lb. of silk) Turn the ‘ goods’ for an hour through a mordant formed of 1 lb. of cop- peras and 2 oz. of nitrate of iron (dyer’s), with sufficient water; after rinsing in cold water, and airing them, ‘work’ them, for an hour, in a decoction made of 5 lb. of logwood and 1 lb. 21