SODA. 1210 alcohol, by which it is distinguished from the CAEBONATE OE POTASSA. Assay. See Axkalimetey, and above, 2. Sesquicar'honate of Soda. This salt, having the composition 2NaO, SCOg + 4HO, occurs native on the banks of the soda-lakes of Sokena, in Africa, whence it is exported under the name of ‘ teona.’ It can be formed artificially, but with considerable difficulty. 3. Bicar'bonate of Soda. Syn. Sesquicae- BONATE OP SODAf, AeEATED SODAf; SOD.E BICAEBONAS (Ph. L. E. & D.), SODJE SESQUI- CAEBONASf, SOD^ CAEBONASt, L. This is the soda analogue of the potassa salt noticed at pages 1113-4, and is prepared in a precisely similar manner. Another method is as follows ; —Take of crystallized carbonate of soda, 1 part; dried carbonate of soda, 2 parts; (both in powder;) triturate them well together, and surround them with an atmosphere of carbonic acid gas, under pressure ; let the action go on until no more gas is absorbed (which will generally occupy 10 to 14 hours, according to the pressure employed), then remove the salt, and dry it at a heat not above 120° Fahr.— Obs. This process is essentially that of the Ph. E. In that of Dr. F. R. Smith, described in the ‘Phil. Pharra. Journ.,’ and now adopted in the Ph. U. S., the salt employed is in crys- tals. In Scotland the method just described has been adopted with perfect success, and we can, from our own experience, bear testimony to its efficiency. Both the carbonate and bicarbonate of soda are now placed in the Materia Medica of the Ph. L. Prop., 8(C. A crystalline white powder; it is soluble in 10 parts of water at 60° Fahr., but it cannot be dissolved in even warm water without partial decomposition; it is more pleasant tasted and more feebly alkaline than the carbonate of the same base. When abso- lutely pure, it does not darken turmeric paper, or only very slightly. The dose is from 10 to 40 grains, as an antacid and absorbent. It is much employed in the preparation of effer- vescing powders and draughts, for which pur- pose 20 gr. of commercial bicarbonate of soda are taken with 18 gr. of crystallized tartaric acid; 17 gr. of crystallized citric acid; or ^ fi. oz. of lemon juice. Pur. It is entirely “ soluble in water; from this solution neither bichloride of platinum nor sulphate of magnesia throws down any- thing, unless heat be applied; what is thrown down by chloride of barium is dissolved by hydrochloric acid. 100 gr. added to dilute sulphuric acid evolve 51'7 gr. of carbonic acid.’' (Ph. L.) “ Dissolved in 40 parts of water, it does not give a reddish precipitate with a solution of corrosive sublimate.” (Ph. E.) Assay. The quantity of carbonate any given sample contains may be approximatively de termined by well washing 100 gr. of the sal with an equal w'eight of water, and filteriuj the solution. The residuum left upon th(; filter, dried at a heat of 120° Fahr., am weighed, gives the per-centage of pure bicar bonate of soda present (very nearly). Th<j solution of this in water will give only a verj trifling white precipitate with corrosive sub limate; whilst the filtered portion, which wn- used to wash the salt, will give a red one, if ii contains the simple carbonate of soda. Chlo”ride of Soda. See Htpochloeite oi Soda. Chro'mate of Soda. As chromate of potash by employing a salt of soda instead of ont| of potassa. This salt has been proposed as i substitute for chromate of potassa, and has tht advantage in cheapness. Hy”drate of Soda. See page 1208. Hydrosul'phate of Soda. Syn. Sulphubii OF SODIUM; Sod.® htdeosulphas ceystal LIZATUM, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) Saturate a so- lution of caustic soda (sp. gr. 1*200) with sul phureited hydrogen, closely cover up the vessel and set it aside that crystals may form; drain press them in bibulous paper, and at once pre serve them in a well-closed bottle. Used to mak( * mineral waters, and in certain skin diseases. Hypochlo”rite of Soda. Syn. Chloeinatei SODA, ChlOEIDE of SODAJ ; SODA CHLO- EINATA, L. Prep. (Dr. Christison.) Driet carbonate of soda, 19 parts, are triturated with water, 1 part, and the mixture placed ir a proper vessel, and exposed to the prolongec action of chlorine gas, generated from a mix- ture of chloride of sodium, 10 parts ; binoxidi ^ of manganese, 8 parts; sulphuric acid, 14 parts (diluted with) water, 10 parts. See SoLUTiOlD OF Chloeinated Soda. 4 Hyposul'phite of Soda. -Syn. Sod.® btpo SULPHIS, L. Prep. 1. Dried carbonate q, ^ soda, 1 lb. ; flower of sulphur, 10 oz.; mix, anc slowly heat the powder in a porcelain disl until the sulphur melts; stir the fused mas: freely to expose it to the atmosphere, unti the incandescence flags, then dissolve the mas: in water, and immediately boil the filteret liquid with some flowers of sulphur; lastly carefully concentrate the solution for crystals.- 2. A stream of well-washed sidphurous aw‘ n gas is passed into a strong solution of carbonah of soda, which is then digested with sulphw at a gentle heat during several days ; by eva porating the solution at a moderate iempe rature, the salt is obtained in large and regula: crystals. 3. (Capaun’s process.) Boil a dilute so lution of caustic soda with sulphur to satu ration, then pass sulphurous acid gas into thi solution until a small portion, when filtered is found to have a very pale yellow colour*;: when this is the case, it must be filtered ai** evaporated, as before. 4. (P. Cod.) Dissolve carbonate of soda 8 parts, in water, 16 parts; add of sublime(