RENNET—RESPIRATIOK. I 1169 ! by may assume or pass into.” In these lies skilful medical assistance in the early j ges is absolutely necessary for the safety of |3 patient. See Fever, «fcc. REN'NET. St/n. Rtjnnet, Prepared calf’s ,w. The stomach of the calf, freed from the ij er skin, fat, and useless membrane, washed, iated with either brine or dry salt for a few ijirs, and then hung up to dry. When well lipared, the dried ^veils’ somewhat resemble l^chment in appearance. Uses, Sfc. Rennet is employed to curdle ) k. A piece of the requisite size is cut off, ill soaked for some hours in whey or water, 1 er w^hich the whole is added to the milk for (i dling, slightly warmed, and the mixture is iuvly heated, if necessary, to about 122° Fahr. -i a short time after this temperature has I n attained, the milk separates into a solid Ailte coagulum (curd), and into a yellowish, tjiislucent liquid (whey). Two square inches ll.n the bottom of a good ‘veil’ are sufficient II a cheese of 60 Ih. It is the gastric juice of t, stomach that operates these changes. The s nachs of all sucking quadrupeds possess the h le properties. See Cheese. iiq'uid Rennet. Syn. Essence of rennet. Ip. From fresh rennet (cut small), 12 oz. ; (xmon salt, 3 oz.; knead them together, and 1 re the mixture at rest, in a cool place, for f f 6 weeks; then add, of water, 18 oz. ; good r, i or proof spirit, 2 oz.; lastly, digest for 24 li.rs, filter, and colour the liquid with a little l\nt sugar. Ohs. 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls will curdle a quart dnilk. Some persons use white wine instead cbater, with simple digestion for a day or twm. IIES'IN, Syn. Resina, L. This name is a lied to many vegetable principles composed he elements carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 1'i resins (resins) cannot be very accurately dined, but we may in a general way describe tjoi as substances which are solid at ordinary t peratures, more or less transparent, inflam- J Jle, readily fusible, do not volatilize un- ^ nged, become negatively electrified by rub- h ^; are insoluble in water, but soluble in alco- 1:; mostly inodorous, and readily incorporated vti fatty bodies by fusion. Their sp. gr. v .es from ’9 to 1‘2. According to Liebig, t y are oxidized essential oils. Common n IN, ‘ ROSIN,’ or COLOPHONY, and the shel- 1 of which sealing-wax is made, are familiar i; nples of these substances. (See below.) lack Resin. Syn. RosiNj:, Black E.j:, C.OPHONY; Resina nigra, Colophonia, L. ^jat remains of turpentine after the oil has I’ l distilled. When this substance, whilst fluid, is agitated with about l-8th part of wjrr, it forms the yellow resin of phar- n!y. Used for violin bows, dark-coloured obnents, varnishes, (tc. [ellow Resin. Syn. Yellow rosinJ, ITE R.+ ; Resina flava, Resina (Ph. L.), I- Detergent. Used in ointments, plasters, ^ (See above.) RES'INOIDS. Syn. Resinous extracts Concentrated e. ; Extracta resina, L. Under this head, the so-called ‘ Eclectics,’ who form a numerous class among American phy- sicians, place their most important ‘ concen- trated remedies.’ “ Viewed as pharmaceutical preparations eligible for use in medicine, though not purified so as to rank as distinctive proximate principles, these are very appro- priately named ‘ resinous extracts,’ or ‘ resins.* The term ‘ resinoid,’ so commonly used, is less appropriate to the class, implying, as it does, a resemblance to resins, while all of these are either resins, oleo-resins, or more or less mixed proximate principles possessing no real resem- blance to the class of resins.” (Parrish.) Most' of them are prepared from plants inciigenous to North America, by precipitating a strong alcoholic tincture with water. They are all brought to the condition of powder, those which are naturally soft or oily being mixed with a sufficient quantity of sugar of milk, or other dry material. One of these eclectic re- medies has been introduced into regular prac- tice. See PODOPHYLLIN. RESOLV'ENTS. Syn. Discutients ; Re- SOLVENTIA, L. Substances or agents which discuss or resolve inflammatory and other tumours. See Digestives. RESPIRATION. The peculiar function by which the nutrient circulating fluid of or- ganized beings is submitted to the action of the air, for the purpose of removing carbonic acid, and restoring its vitality by the absorp- tion of atmospheric oxygen. According to Liebig, the primary object of the respiratory process is the production of animal heat. The air expired from the lungs is found to have undergone a most remarkable change. It is now loaded with aqueous vapour, whilst a considerable portion of its oxygen has disappeared, and its place is supplied by about a like volume of carbonic acid. It is no longer capable of supporting animal life, and even a lighted taper plunged into it is imme- diately extinguished. In the mean time, the I ‘ venous blood’ which entered the lungs from the right chambers of the heart has lost its dingy hue, and has acquired the rich florid colour which is characteristic of ‘ arterial blood.’ In this state it is returned to the left chambers of the heart, and is propelled by that organ to every part of the body, from which it passes by the capillaries to the veins, and by these again to the heart and lungs, to undergo the same changes and circulation as before. The carbon and hydrogen of the blood, ultimately derived from the food, are, in this course, gradually converted into carbonic ACID and WATER, by a species of slow com- bustion ; but how these changes are effected is not definitely ascertained, although it appears pretty certain that they occur in the capilla- ries of the whole body, and not in the lungs, the temperature of which does not exceed that of the other parts. Much of the oxygen is, 74