792 IKON. dryness; dissolve the residuum in water, add a little more ammonia, filter, and again gently evaporate to dryness, or to the consistence of a thick syrup, when it may be spread upon hot plates of glass, or on earthenware dishes, and dried in a stove-room, as directed for ammo- NIO-CITEATE OF lEON. 2. (W. Procter, Jun.) Tartaric acid, 6^ oz.; water, 7 pints; dissolve, neutralize the solution with sesquicarbonate of ammonia, and add 65 oz. more tartaric acid; to the so- lution heated in a water bath, further add moist hydrated oxide of iron (obtained from sesquioxide of iron, 53| dr., dissolved in hydro- chloric acid, and precipitated by ammonia)’, when dissolved, filter, and evaporate, &c., as before. Prop., Sfc. Glossy, brittle lamellae, or irre- gular pieces, of a deep garnet colour, almost black, very soluble in water, and possessing a sweetish and slightly ferruginous taste. By repeated re-solution and evaporation its sweet- ness is increased, probably from the conversion of a part of its acid into sugar. It contains more iron than a given weight of the sulphate of the same base. It is the most pleasant- tasted of all the preparations of iron, except the ammonio-citrate, last noticed. Dose. 3 to 10 gr. Arse"niate of Iron. Syn. Feeeotjs aese- NATE, A. OF PEOTOXIDE OF I. ; FeEEI AESENAS, L. Prep. From a solution of arseniate of soda, potassa, or ammonia, added to a solution of protosulphate of iron, the precipitate being collected, washed in a little cold water, and dried. Dose. to gr., made into a pill; in lupus, psoriasis, cancerous affections, &c. (Biett.) Externally, combined with 4 times its weight of phosphate of iron and a little water, as a paint to destroy the vitality of cancerous formations. (Carmichael.) An ointment (20 to 30 gr. to the oz.) is also used for the same purpose. They are all dangerous remedies in non-professional hands. Ohs. The peeaeseniate or sesqtiiaeseniate OF lEON is not used in medicine. It occurs ‘ native’ as ^ ieon-sintee.’ Ar'senite of Iron. Syn. Aesenite of peot- oxiDE OF I.; Feeei aesenis, L. From the arsenite of potassa, soda, or ammonia, and sul- phate of iron, as the last. A yellowish-brown powder, occasionally used in medicine as a tonic, alterative, and febrifuge. Dose, y’g to T5 gr. Obs. The sesqtjiaesenite or peeaesenite is formed in the same way by using the per- sulphate. Ben'zoate of Iron. Syn. Feeei benzoas, L. The different benzoates are prepared by digest- ing the corresponding hydrated oxides in a hot solution of the acid ; or from the benzoate of an alkali and a salt of iron, by double decom- position. Bro'mide of Iron. Syn. Feeei beomidem, L. Prep. 1. (Moir.) Bromine and iron filings, of each, 1 part; water, 3 parts; mix in a stop- pered phial, set it aside, occasionally shaking it, for 2 or 3 days, and when the colour of the bromine has disappeared, and the liquid be- comes greenish, filter and evaporate to dryness. 2. (Magendie.) As the last, but putting the materials in a flask, and boiling over a sand bath, until the union is complete. Dose. 1 to 6 gr,, as a tonic, diuretic, and resolvent, in similar cases to those in which iodide of iron is given. Car'bonate of Iron. Syn. Peotocaebonate OF lEON ; Feeei caebonas, F. sebcaebonas (Ph. U. S.), L. This occurs in nature as SPATHOSE OEE, as the chief constituent of CLAY ieonstojSte, and in many chalybeate WATEES. Prep. 1. Precipitate a solution of protosul- phate of iron with a solution of carbonate of soda, well wash the green powder with water which has been boiled, and dry it out of con- tact with the air. On the slightest exposure it is converted into sesqeioxide of ieon. This change is for the most part prevented by combining it with sugar, as in the following preparation. 2. (With SEGAE: SaCCHAEIXE C. OF I.; Feeeem caebonicem sacchaeatem, Feeei CAEBONAS CEM SACCHAEO—Ph. L., FeEEI CAEBONAS SACCHAEATEM—Ph. E.&D., L.)—a. (Ph. L.) Sulphate of iron, 4 oz.; carbonate of soda, 4| oz.; dissolve each separately in 1 quart of boiling water, and mix the solutions whilst hot; after a time collect the precipitate, wash it frequently with water, and add of sugar, 2 oz., previously dissolved in water, 2 fl. oz.; lastly, evaporate the mixture over a water bath to dryness, and keep it in a well-closed bottle. b. (Ph. E.) Sulphate of iron, 4oz.; car- bonate of soda, 5 oz.; proceed as last, collect the precipitate, well wash it with cold water, drain on a cloth, squeeze out as much of the water as possible, and add of powdered lump sugar, 2 oz.; mix and dry at a temperature not much above 120° Fahr. The whole ope- ration should be performed as quickly as possible. c. (Ph. D.) As the last, the desiccation to be conducted under 212° Fahr. Prop., 8fc. A sweet-tasted, greenish mass or powder, consisting chiefly of carbonate of iron. It is one of the best of the chalybeates. Dose. 5 to 10 gr. When pure, it should be “ easily soluble in hydrochloric acid with brisk effervescence.” (Ph. E.) Obs. The sesqeicaebonate of ieon does not appear to exist. Car'buret of Iron*. See Plembago. Ohio "rides of Iron. Iron forms with chlo- rine two well-defined compounds:— 1. Protochlo"ride of Iron. Syn. Meeiate OF IEON; Feeei chloeidem, L. Prep. 1. (An- hydrous.) By passing dry hydrochloric acid gas over ignited metallic iron. The chloride sublimes in yellowish crystals. 2. (Hydrated.) iron filings or scales