182 ANTIMONY. Prep. ^Native antimony’ is freed from im- purities by fusion. The ‘ sulphuret, ’ after being’ melted from the ‘ gangue,’ is commonly oxidised by exposure on the concave hearth of («•). Grate and fire-place. (c.) Bridsre. {(I.) Air-channel. (e.) Concave space for 'ore,’ resting on a solid bed (/.) formed of sand and clay. iff.) Door for introducing the ‘ ore,’ and abstracting residuary ‘ slag.’ (h.) Pipe to convey away the liquid metal. (i.) Chimney. a reverberatory furnace, and is then re- duced to the metallic state by fusion in cru- cibles with coal-dust, crude tartar, or some other deoxidising agent. To free the product from ‘ iron,’ it is generally fused, or re-fused, with a little antimonic oxide; and when the ore contains ‘ arsenic,’ some iron or its oxide, and an alkaline carbonate or sulphate, are used in the same way. It is seldom prepared on the small scale. The following formulae are in use, or are recommended :— 1. On the SMALL scale :— a. From tersulphuret of antimony, in coarse powder, 2 parts; iron-filings, 1 part; fused together in a covered crucible, at a heat gradually raised to dull redness. b. From the teroxide or the oxychloride of antimony, fused together, as before, with twice its weight of crude tartar. c. (Ph. Castr. Ru. 1840.) Sulj>hiLret of an- timony, 16 parts; cream of tartar, 6 parts; both in powder; throw the mixture, in small ((uantities at a time, into a vessel (an earthen (*rucible) heated to redness; when the reaction is over, (having closely covered the vessel,) fuse the mass, and after a quarter of an hour, pour it out, and separate the metal from the slag. d. From sulphuret of antimony, 8 parts; crude tartar, 6 parts; nitre, 3 parts; as last. e. (Wohler.) Sulphuret of antimony, 10 parts; nitre, 12 parts; dry carbonate of soda, 15 parts; deflagrate together; powder the resulting mass, and wash it thoroughly with boiling water; lastly, smelt the dried residuum with black flux. All the preceding are nearly pure; the impurity, if any, being traces of copper, lead, or iron. f. (Berzelius.) From metallic antimony, in fine powder, 2 parts; teroxide of antimony, 1 part; fused together. The product will be^;itre pro- vided the antimony employed is/ree from lead. g. (Muspratt.) From antimony, 9 parts; peroxide of manganese, 1 part; fused together; the resulting metal being re-fused with 1-lOth of its weight of carbonate of soda. 2. On the laege scale—commercial /— a. See above (before 1 a.). b. From sulphuret of antimony, 100 parts; iron (in very small scraps), 40 parts; dry crude sulphate of soda, 10 parts; fused together.— Prod. 60 to 65 parts of antimony, besides the scoriae or ash, which is also valuable. c. (Berthier.) Sulphuret of antimony, 100 parts; hammerschlay (rough oxide of iron from the shingling or rolling mills), 60 parts; crude carbonate of soda (or Glauber-salt), 45 to 50 parts; charcoal powder, 10 parts; as last. —Prod. 65 to 70 parts. Prop., S^c. Bluish-white, lustrous, with a lamellar texture, and a crystalline or semi- crystalline fracture; extremely brittle (may be powdered) ; imparts brittleness to its alloys (even 1-lOOOth part added to gold renders it unfit for the purposes of coinage and the arts); melts at 809-810° Fahr., or just under red- ness ; fumes, boils, and volatilises at a white heat, and, when suddenly exposed to the air, inflames with conversion into the teroxide, which is deposited in beautiful flowers or crystals ; when perfectly pure and fused with- out contact with air or foreign matter, it bears an intense heat without subliming (Thenard); allowed to cool slowly from a state of perfect fusion, it crystallises in octahedrons or dode- cahedrons ; tarnishes, but does not rust by exposure to air or moisture at common tempe- ratures; hot hydrochloric acid dissolves it, with the formation of terchloeide op an- TiMONY; nitric acid, when concentrated, con- verts it into ANTIMONIC ACID; and when di- ; lute, into teroxide of antimony. Sp. gr., ‘ 6-7 to 6-8.1 Tests. Metallic antimony may be recognised by the above properties; its oxide, salts, &c., ‘ by the following reactions:—1. Sulphuretted hydrogen gives, with acid solutions, an orange- red precipitate, which is sparingly soluble in ammonia,^ and insoluble in dilute acids; but readily soluble in pure potassa and alkaline sulphurets, and in hot hydrochloric acid with the evolution of sulphuretted hydrogen gas:— 2. Hydrosulphuret of ammonia gives an orange- red precipitate, readily soluble in excess of the precipitant, if this latter contains sulphur in excess; and the liquor containing the re-dis- solved precipitate gives a yellow or orange- yellow precipitate on the addition of an acid:— 3. Ammonia and potassa, and their carbonates, ^ give {except in solutions of tartar emetic) a i bulky white precipitate; that with ammonia and its carbonate being insoluble in excess of the precipitant; that with potassa, readily so; 1 whilst that with carbonate of potassa is only, soluble on the application of heat:—4. A rod j of zinc throws down metallic antimony, as a 1 When perfectly pure, 6'715—Ure. 2 The like precipitate Irom a solution of antimonic acid in hydrochloric acid, dissolves readily in ammonia, parti- cularly when heated. n I I ■k i Ik iti