ns ALUM. Sir Thomas Chaloner, an ancestor of Robert Chaloner, Esq. The principal alum-works in England, until recently, were those of Lord Glasgow, at Hurlett and Campsie, near Glas- gow, and those of Lords Dundas and Mulgrave, at Whitby, Yorkshire (est., 1600) ; but those of Mr. Spence, at Manchester, and at Goole (Yorkshire), and of Mr. Pochin, at Manchester, are now among the largest, if they be not actually the largest in the world. There are also extensive alum-works at and near New- castle-on-Tyne; but none of importance, as we know of, in any other part of these realms. Nat. hist. Alum is found native in some places (native alum), either effloresced on the surface of bituminous alum-schist (Gott- wigg, Austria); or united with the soil in the neighbourhood of volcanoes (Solfatara, Naples); when it may be obtained by simple lixiviation and evaporation, a little potash being commonly added to convert the excess of sulphate of alumina present into alum. It is also found in certain mineral waters (East Indies). Sources. The alum of commerce is usually obtained from schistose pyritic clays, com- monly termed alum-ores, aluminous shale, a.- schist, &c.; and from alum-rock, a.-stone, or alunite. At La Tolfa, Civita Vecchia, where the best Roman-alum is produced, the source is stratified alum-stone. On the Continent, and in Great Britain, it is generally pyri- taceous clays, volcanic aluminous ores, alu- minous shale, or alum-slate. These minerals contain sulphuret of iron, alumina, bitumen or carbon, and frequently a salt of potash. Of late years large quantities of alum have been prepared on the banks of the Tyne, from aluminous clay, by direct combination of its alumina with oil of vitriol, the potash being subsequently added. Prep. The manufacture of alum is techni- cally said to be conducted according to the * natural process’ when prepared from alum- schist or alum-ore; and according to the ‘ artificial process ’ when made by acting on clay with sulphuric acid, and adding a potash- salt to the resulting lixivium. The following are the details of these processes:— a. From alum-oee, aluminous schist, or SHALE, &C. : — 1. The mineral (alum-ore, a.-schist, &c.), is placed in heaps, and moistened from time to time with water, when it becomes gradually hot, and falls into a pulverulent state. This decomposition commonly occurs either wholly, or partially, on the fioor of the mine. If the ore does not possess this property on mere ex- posure to air and moisture, it is broken into pieces and laid upon a bed of brushwood and small coal, to the depth of about four feet, when the pile is fired and fresh lumps of the alum-mineral thrown on, until the mass be- comes of considerable height and size. The combustion, as soon as established, is con- ducted with a smothered fire, until the cal- cination is complete ; care being taken to pre- vent fusion, or the disengagement of either sulphurous or sulphuric acid, from contact between the ignited stones and the car- bonaceous fuel.^ To promote these ends, the pile, at the proper time, is * mantled ’ (as the workmen call it) or covered with a layer of already calcined and exhausted ore, in order to protect it from high winds and heavy rains; , as also to moderate the heat, and let it pro- ceed gradually, so that the sulphur present ' may not be lost or wasted by volatilisation. The ‘ ustulation ’ is finally checked by a thicker ‘ mantling,’ and the whole allpwed to cool. By this time the pile has usually lost i about one-half its bulk, and become open and porous in the interior, so that the air can circulate freely through the mass; the latter, ^ in dry weather, as the heap cools, being usually j promoted by sprinkling a little water on it, which, by carrying down some of the saline matter, renders the interior still more open to the atmosphere. The whole when cold, or nearly cold, is, if necessary, still further ex- posed to the action of air and moisture. The time required to calcine the heap properly, including that taken by the burned ore to cool, varies, according to its size and the state of the weather, from three to nine, or even twelve months. The residuum of the calcination is next placed in large stone or brick cisterns, and edulcorated with water, until all the soluble portion is dissolved out; the solution is then concentrated in another stone cistern, so made that the flame and heated air of its reverberatory furnace sweep the whole surface j of the liquor. (See Engr.) The evaporation is con- j tinned until it just barely reaches the point at j which crystals are deposited on cooling; when | it is run off into coolers. After the sulphate j of iron, always present, has been deposited in j crystals, the mother-liquor, containing the I ‘ sulphate of alumina,’ is run into other cis- terns, and a saturated solution of chloride of | potassium, or of sulphate of potassa, or (some- j times) impure sulphate or carbonate of ammonia, | or a mixture of them,^ is added until a cloud or milkiness ceases to be produced on addition 1 The generality of alum-mmerals require ustulation ; and tlieir own bituminous matter is, in many cases, suffi- cient to produce the heat required, which need not neces- sarily exceed 600 to 650° Fahr., provided it he continued for a sufficient period. It is only when they are less bitu- minous or carbonaceous that slack or saw-dust, &c., is employed. 2 For pure potash-alum a salt of potash only must be employed. When ammonia (usually in the form of gas- liquor or gas-sulphate)\s used as the precipitant, the product is AMMONIA-ALUM. The ordinary alums of commerce, are now generally mixtures of the two.