1095 PLASTER. Obs. Hemlock plaster is occasionally used an application to painful and malignant jjers and tumours, painful joints, &c. A read plaster of it, with 6 or 8 gr. of tartar etic (in very fine powder) sprinkled over its pface, has been highly extolled as a counter- fitant in hooping-cough, phthisis, &c. Plaster of Hen'bane. Syn. Emplastrum ^!’OSCYAMi, L. Prep. As the last, but using nhane instead of hemlock. As an anodyne, various external affections, iPlaster of I'odide of Potas'sium. Syn. Em- ASTEUM POTASSii lODiDi (Pli. L,), L. Prep. , h. L.) Iodide of potassium, 1 oz.; olive oil, fl. dr.; triturate them together, then add, of rained frankincense (thus), 6 oz.; wacc, 6 dr.; id stir constantly until the mass cools. This plaster is to be spread on linen, rather an on leather.” Used as a discutient or re- ivent; more particiilarly as an application j scrofulous tumours and indurations. I Plaster of I'odine. Syn. EMPLASTErM Idinii, L. Prep. Triturate iodine, 1 dr., in a jinn mortar, with olive oil, 1 oz.; then add, of wax, 1 oz., yellow resin, ^ oz., previously plted together, and stir the whole until it lucretes. It should be, preferably, spread at Ice on leather, and applied shortly after iing prepared. Used as the last. [Piaster of Iodine (Compound). Syn. Em- I.ASTEUM lODINII COMPOSITUM, L. Prep. I Iodine, 1 dr.; iodide of potassium, 2 dr.; ib them to a fine powder, add this to lead \wder, 2 oz.. Burgundy pilch, 1 oz., pre- jously melted together, and just about to 'ncrete. More active than either of the pre- ding. 2. (Emp. iod. cum belladonna.) To bel- donna plaster, 2 oz., melted by a very gentle kt, add iodine and iodide of potassium (in le powder), of each, 1 dr., and stir the mix- :re until nearly cold. Powerfully resolvent id anodyne. Used in the same cases as the eceding, when there is much pain. Plaster of I'ron. See Plaster op Oxide op tON. I Plaster of I”singlass. See Court Plas- 'iB. Is'sue Plaster. Syn. Emplastrum ad pon- [cULOS, SpARADRAPUM pro PONTICULIS, L. \>'ep. 1. From bees' wax, ^ lb.; Burgundy \tch and Chio turpentine, of each, 4 oz.; ver- sion and orris powder, of each, 1 oz.; musk, gr.; melted together, and spread upon linen, jhis is afterwards polished with a smooth piece I' glass moistened with water, and cut into |eces. ! 2. (Ph. Aust.) Yellow wax, G oz.; multon '■et, 2 oz.; lard, 1^ oz.; melt, add of turpen- >ie, 1^ oz., and afterwards, of red lead, 4 oz.; p pieces of linen into the melted mixture, iss these between rollers, and, when cold, jlish them, as before, and cut them into luares. The issue plaster (issue paper ; HARTA AD F05TICUL0S) of the Ph. Suecica a nearly similar compound, wiih the addi- tion of about l-48th part of verdigris, in very fine powder, and being spread upon paper. Kennedy’s Plaster. See Corn Plasters. Kirkland’s Plaster. See Ammoniacal Plaster. Plaster of Lab'danum. See Cephalic Plaster. Plaster of Lead. Syn. Lead plaster. Li- tharge p.. Common p., Diachylon, Simple DIACHYLON, WHITE D.; EmPLASTRUM PLUMBI (Ph. L.), E. LYTHARGYRI (Ph. E. & D.), E. commune. Diachylon simplex, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Oxide of lead (litharge), in very fine powder, G lb.; olive oil, 1 gall.; water, 1 quart; boil them over a slow fire, constantly stirring, to the consistence of a plaster, adding a little boiling water, if nearly the whole of that used in the beginning should be con- sumed before the end of the process. 2. (Ph. E.) Litharge, 5 oz.; olive oil, 12 fl. oz.; water, 8 fl. oz.; as the last. 3. (Ph. D.) Litharge, ^ lb. : olive oil, 1 ‘, water, 1 quart. 4. (Otto Kohnke.) For each lb. of litharge employed, add i pint of colourless vinegar (each fl. oz. of which is capable of saturating ^ dr. of carbonate of potassa); add the oil, boil until all moisture is evaporated, and until only a few striae of litharge rise to the sur- face, then remove the vessel from the heat, add gradually ^ to i as much vinegar as before, and boil the mixture to a proper consistence. 5. {Wholesale.) From Genoa oil, 7 gall, (or G5 lb.); litharge (perfectly free from copper), 28 lb.; water, 2\ gall.; boil to a plaster, as before. Obs. The London College orders too little oil. The second, fourth, and fifth formulm produce beautiful plasters, that keep well; those of the others, although very white, get hard and brittle much more rapidly. The proper proportion of oil is fully 2^ times the weight of the litharge,—2\ times appears the best quantity; and without this is used, the plaster speedily gets hard and non-adhesive. The process consists in putting the andthe litharge into a perfectly clean and well-polished tinned copper or copper-pan, mixing them well together with a spatula, adding the oil, and boiling, with constant stirring, until the plaster is sufficiently hard, when thoroughly cold. This process usually occupies from 4 to 5 hours, but by adopting the fourth formula an excellent plaster may be made in from 20 to 30 minutes. This plaster is generally cooled by immersion in cold water ; and to render it very white, a quality highly prized in the trade, it is usual to submit it to laborious ‘ pulling,’ in the manner already noticed. Use. As a simple defensive plaster or strap- ping ; but principally as a basis for other plasters. Liston’s Plaster. See Court Plaster. • Mahy’s Plaster. Syn. Emplastrum PLUMBI CAEBONATIS, E. P. C. COMPOSITUM, L. Prrp. (Pb.U. S.) Carbonafeoflead^nxY^