1176 ROUGHENING—RUPIA. white-wine vinegar^ until it ceases to produce a precipitate; next wash the prepared cotton in pure cold water, and dissolve out the colour with a fresh solution of soda ; to the new solu- tion add a quantity of finely powdered talc or French chalk, proportionate to the intended quality of rouge; mix well, and precipitate with lemon juice, as before; lastly, collect the powder, dry it with great care, with as little heat as possible, and triturate it with a very small quantity of oil of olives, to render it smooth and adhesive. Ohs. According to the best authorities, this is the only article which will brighten a lady’s complexion without injuring the skin. The relative fineness and proportion of talc employed determines the quality of tlie rouge. It is applied by means of a camel-hair pencil, a small ‘ powder puff,’ or a hare’s foot. It is also employed under the form of ‘ pommade’ and ‘ CEEPONS.’ The last of these consist of pieces of white woollen crape, upon which the colouring matter of the carthamus has been precipitated, instead of upon the talc, noticed above. The following articles also 'pass under the name of rouge, and are used for the purposes named after each :— Brown-red Rouge. Jeweller’s rouge. ' Chinese Card Rouge. This is said to be a * carthamate of soda’ ; it is colourless when ap- plied, but, being decomposed by the acid se- cretions of the skin, acquires a most beautiful rose-like tint. (O’Shaughnessy.) Jeweller’s Rouge. Sesquioxide of iron pre- pared by calcination (see page 793). Used to polish gold, &c. Liquid Rouge. The red liquid left from the preparation of carmine; or, a solution of car- mine in weak carbonate of potash water, or of pure rouge in alcohol acidulated with acetic acid. Rouge Indienne. The terra persica, or In- dian red; imported from Ormuz. Rouge de Prusse. Light red or burnt yel- low ochre. See Red Pigments. Spanish Lady’s Rouge. This is cotton wool which has been repeatedly wetted with an ammoniacal solution of carmine, and dried. It is applied like ‘ rouge crepons.’ Vert Rouge d’Athenes. Syn. Ptiee eouge. See Caethamine. ROUGHENING. See Wines. RUBEFA"CIENTS. Syn. Rubepacientia, L. Substances or agents which, when applied for a certain time to the skin, occasion a red- ness and increase of heat, without blistering. They act as counter-irritants. Mustard, pow- dered ginger (both made into a paste with water), hartshorn and oil, and ether and spirit of wine (when their evaporation is prevented), are familiar examples of this class of reme- dies. RUBE'OLA. See Measles. RUBIA'CIN. An orange-coloured substance, obtained from madder. By the action of oxidizing agents it is converted into etjbiaci ACID. RU'BIC ACID. Syn. Rijb^nic acid. S(* Ti'pn'MTr' A r'T'n RUBIDIUM. [Eng., L.J A metal belonc ing to the alkaline group discovered by Bunse and Kirchhoffby means of specteum analysi It is found in many mineral waters associate with CJESIDM. Carbonate of rubidium nearly insoluble in absolute alcohol, while ca; bonate of cmsium is soluble, and this proper! is made use of for the separation of the tw metals. RU'BY. See Gems and Pastes. RUE. Syn. Rut.®: eolia, Ruta (Ph. L. E.), L. “Thefea/ of Ruta graveolens.” (P! L.) A powerful antispasmodic, diuretic, an stimulant. It is also reputed nervine and en menagogue. The fresh leaves are powerful] acrid, and even vesicant; but they becou milder in drying. Bose. Of tha. poivder, 1 to 30 gr., twice or thrice daily; in hysteri fiatulent colic, &c. See Inetjsion and On (Volatile). RUM. Syn. Spieitds Jamaicensis, Sp EiTTis SACCHAEI, L. An ardent spirit o1 tained by distillation from the fermentc skimmings of the sugar-boilers (SYEUP SCUM the drainings of the sugar-pots and hogsheac (molasses), the washings of the boilers ar other vessels, together with sufficient recei cane juice or wort, prepared by mashing tl crushed cane, to impart the necessary flavou The sweet liquor, before fermentation, con monly contains from 12 to 16§ of saccharine. Obs. Rum is imported from the West Ii dies. The best comes from Jamaica, and hence distinguished by that name. Leewae Island eijm is less esteemed. The duty c West India efm is 9s. per proof gallor that on East India elm, 15s.; the latte hence, amounts to a prohibition. The coi sumption of rum has long been declining : England; its place being chiefiy supplied I GIN. Rum owes its fiavour to a volatile c and butyric acid, a fact which the wary ch mist has' availed himself of in the manufa ture of a butyric compound (essence of eui for the especial purpose of enabling the spiri dealer to manufacture a eactitious bum fro malt or molasses spirit. In Jamaica it isusu to put sliced pine apples into the puncheoi containing the finer qualities of rum, whi( is then termed pine-apple BUM. See A COHOL, Spieit, «fec. RUPERT’S DROPS. These are made 1 letting drops of melted glass fall into co water. By this means they assume an ov form, with a tail or neck resembling a retoi They possess this singular property, that if small portion of the tail is broken off, tl whole bursts into powder with an explosio and a considerable shock is communicated the hand. RU'PIA. A skin disease, which commenc with an eruption of flattish vesicles, which a