VALERIC ACID—VANILLA. 1298 3. (Ph. D.) See Valerianate of Soda {page 1212). This is the most economical process. Prop., 8(c. A limpid oily liquid, smelling strongly of valerian root; it has an acid taste and reaction, and leaves a sensation of sweet- ness and a white spot on the tongue; is inflam- mable ; boils at 347°; is freely soluble in alcohol and ether; dissolves in 30 parts of water, and forms salts called valerianates, most of which have a sweetish taste, are soluble, and uncrystallizable; sp. gr. *937; placed in con- tact with water, it absorbs a portion of it, and is converted into the terhydrated acid, with increase of sp. gr. and reduction of the boiling- point. VALE"RIC ACID. See above. VALE"R0L. A neutral oily body, found, along with valerianic acid, borneene, &c., in oil of valerian. Oxidizing agents convert it into valerianic acid. VALO'NIA. The cup of a large species of acorn, imported from the Levant. Used in tanning leather. VANADTC ACID. Syn. Peroxide of va- nadium, Teroxide of V.; Acidum vana- DICUM, L. Prep. (Johnston.) From the native vanadate of lead, by dissolving it in nitric acid, passing sulphuretted hydrogen through the solution, to throw down lead and arsenic, filtering, and evaporating the resulting blue liquid to dryness; the residuum is then dissolved in a solution of ammonia, and a piece of sal ammoniac, considerably larger than can be dissolved, introduced; as the latter dis- solves, a pulverulent precipitate of vanadate OF AMMONIA is formed, which must be washed, first in a solution of sal ammoniac, and then in alcohol of *860 ; by exposing this salt, in an open platinum crucible, to a heat a little below redness, and keeping it constantly stirred, until it acquires a dark red colour, jowre vanadic acid is obtained. Prop., &^c. Vanadic acid is orange-coloured, scarcely soluble in water, and forms, with the alkaline bases, soluble salts called vanadates ; and with the other bases sparingly soluble salts. All of these have an orange or yellow colour. “ Vanadate of ammonia mixed with solution of galls forms a black fluid, which is the best writing ink hitherto known. The quantity of the salt required for this purpose is very small; the writing is perfectly black, and not obliterated by alkalies, acids, chlorine, or other reagents, that at the same time will not destroy the paper.” (Ure.) VANA'DIUM. A rare metal discovered by Sefstom, in 1830, in some Swedish iron ex- tracted from an iron mine near Jonkoping. It has since been found in a lead ore from Scotland, and in the iron slag of Staf- fordshire. Prep. 1. The liquid chloride of vanadium is introduced into a bulb blown in a glass tube, and dry ammoniacal gas passed over it; the latter is absorbed, and a white saline mass produced; this is heated by the flame of a spirit lamp, when chloride of ammonium is volatilized, and pure metallic vanadium left behind. 2. (Berzelius.) By placing fragments of fused vanadic acid and of potassium, of equal size, in alternate layers, in a porcelain cru- cible, the potassium being in rather the largest proportion, and, after well luting on the cover, heating it carefully over a spirit lamp ; the cooled mass is then to be washed with water. Prop., &^c. It is a white brittle substance, of perfect metallic lustre, and a very high degree of infusibility; it is very difficult of reduction; is neither oxidized by air or water, nor attacked by sulphuric, hydrochloric, or even hydrofluoric acid; nitric acid dissolves it slowly, and aqua regia more freely, yielding deep blue solutions. It forms 3 compounds with oxygen:—Protoxide of vanadium, ob- tained by acting on vanadic acid by heat and charcoal or hydrogen gas. Black; non-basic —Binoxide of vanadium, formed by heating to dull redness a mixture of 10 parts of tb protoxide and 12 parts of vanadic acid, in ar atmosphere of carbonic acid gas, or out of con tact with air and combustible matter. It ii also formed by heating vanadate of ammoni; in close vessels. A black powder; it forms i series of blue salts, which have a tendency t< decomposition, becoming first green and thei red. It also unites, as a feeble acid, to alka lies. It is precipitated, as a grayish-whit hydrate, from its solutions, by carbonate o soda in slight excess.—Bichloride of va NADIUM, formed by dissolving the metal ii, hydrochloric acid, passing a stream of sulphu retted hydrogen through the solution, an' evaporating the whole to dryness. Wate resolves it into a blue solution and an insolubl oxychloride.—Terchloride of vanadium, yellow liquid obtained by passing chlorine ove a mixture of protoxide of vanadium and chat coal. It is converted by water into hydro chloric and vanadic acids. Tests. Vanadium is distinguished fror chromium, for which it may be mistaken, b deoxidizing substances giving a blue colour t its solutions, but a green one to solutions c the latter. VANIL'LA. Syn. Vanille, Fr. The drie pods of various species of Vanilla, a gem^ ( the natural order Orchidacece. It is chief used in the manufacture of chocolate and pei fumery. As a medicine, it is much employe on the Continent as an aromatic stimular and neurotic. Dose. 6 to 12 gr.; in astlif, nic fevers, hysteria, hypochondriasis, imp‘ tency, &c. Vanilla is reduced to powder (pulvi3 NILL.E; POUDRE DE VANILLE) bj slicing i and triturating the fragments with twice ' thrice their weight of well-dried lump suga For SUCRE DE VANILLE, 11 parts of sugar a employed.