POTASSIUM. •1120 and tartaric acid. According to Dr. Paris, it forms “ a grateful adjunct to rhubarb.^’ Dose. 12 gr. to 1| dr., in solution, combined Avitli rliubarb or bitters, as the neutral sul- phate. A ‘ SESQUISIJLPHATE OF POTASSA,’ in asbestos-like crystals, noticed by Mr. Phil- lips, M^as probably anhydrous sulphate. (See above.) Tar'trates of Potassa. Two well-defined tartrates of potassa are known:— 1. Neutral Tartrate of Potassa. Syn. Tae- TEATE OF POTASSA, NeTJTEAL TAETAE, SOLUBLE T.; POTASSiE TAETEAS (Ph. L. E. & D.), KaLI TAETAEizATUMf, L. Prep. (Ph. D.) Car- bonate of potash, 8 oz.; distilled water, 2 quarts; dissolve, and to the solution, whilst boiling hot, gradually add of bitartrate of potassa, in fine powder, 1 lb., or q. s., so that the liquid, after ebullition for a couple of minutes, ceases to change the colour of either blue or reddened litmus paper; next tilter the liquid through calico, evaporate it until a pel- licle forms on the surface, and set it aside to crystallize; after 12 hours, collect the crystals, dry them on bibulous paper, and preserve them from the air. The formula of the Ph. L. 1836 is nearly similar. Prop., 8fc. The crystals of this salt, which are obtained with difficulty, are right rhombic prisms, and are deliquescent. The salt of commerce is usually in the form of a white granular powder, which is obtained by simply- evaporating the solution to dryness, with con- stant stirring. In this state it requires about 4 parts of cold water for its solution. Acids convert it into the bitartrate. As a medicine, it acts as a gentle diuretic and aperient, and is valued for correcting the griping p>roperties of senna and resinous purgatives. It is also antiscorbutic. The ‘‘solution changes the colour neither of litmus nor turmeric. The addition of almost any acid throws down crystals of bitartrate of potassa, which generally adhere to the vessel. The precipitate occa- sioned by either chloride of barium or acetate of lead is dissolved by dilute nitric acid.” (Ph. L.) “ 44 gr. are not entirely pre- cipitated by 55 gr. of nitrate of lead.” (Ph. E.) Dose, i dr. to f oz., in powder, or dissolved in water. 2. Bitar'trate of Potassa. Syn. Acid tae- TEATE OF rOTASSA, SUPEE-TAETEATE OF P., CeEAM of TAETAE; CeEMOE TAETAEI, Po- TASSA5 BITAETEAS (Ph. L. E. & D.), POTASSJJ supee-taeteas, Taetaei ceystalli, L. This well-known salt is deposited during the fermentation of grape juice, as a crust on the sides of the casks or vats. In its unprepared or crude state, it is called wniTE or eed TAETAE or AEGOLS, according to the wine from whicli it has been obtained. It is puri- fied by boiling it in water, crystallization, re- solution in water, and treatment w’ith freshly bm'nt charcoal and aluminous clay, to remove the colour; the clear liquid is then decanted, whilst still hot, and allowed to cool slowly; the resulting crystals form the ‘Ceeam of tab. tae’ of commerce. Prop., &CC. Small, translucent, gritty, pri^ matic crystals, irregularly grouped together permanent in the air; requiring fully IC parts of cold water, and about 15 parts o, boiling water, for their perfect solution; tli solution has a harsh, sour taste, and, like tha of the tartrate, suffers spontaneous decomposi tion by keeping. Its “ solution reddens litmiu At a red heat, it is converted into carbonate oi potash.” (Ph. L.) “Entirely soluble in 4 parts of boiling water; 40 gr., in solution, an| neutralized by 30 gr. of crystallized carbonat of soda.” (Ph. E.) Dose. As an aperient, 1 h| 3 dr.; as a diuretic, \ dr. to 1 dr.; as an anti scorbutic, 10 to 20 gr., frequently. It is mud used to make a pleasant cooling drink (‘ lii peeial’), and in tooth-pow'ders. Tartrate of Potassa and Soda. See Sod (Potassio- tartrate). Potassa with Lime. Syn. Yienha fasti Common caustic, Steongee c. c. ; Past ViENNENsis, Potassa cum calce (Ph. L. ( E.), Potassa caustica cum calce (Ph. D. Kali causticum cum calce, Causticu: COMMUNE FOETIUS, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. & D, Hydrate of potassa and quicklime, of each, 1 oz, rub them together (in a warm mortar—PI D.), and keep the powder from the air in well-stopped bottle. 2. (Ph. E.) is evaporated t l-3rd its volume in a clean iron vessel, the mixed with sufficient fresh-slaked lime to giv it the consistence of a firm paste, and at one put into well-stopped bottles. Use, fyc. As a caustic; but it is less nu' nageable than either nitrate of silver or fuse! hydrate of potassa. For another formula, sr Filuo’s Caustic (paye 406). POTAS'STUM. [Eng.,L.] The metallic ha?, of potash. It w'as discovered, in 1807, by S H. Davy, wKo obtained it by submitting moisi; enedhydrate of potassa, under a film of naphtli to the action of a powerful voltaic current. 1 has since been procured by easier methods, ( which the following, invented by Brunner, the best. Prep. An intimate mixture of carbonar of potassa and charcoal is prepared by calcinin; in a covered iron pot, the crude tartar of con merce; when cold, it is rubbed to powdc mixed with 1-lOth part of charcoal in sma lumps, and quickly transferred into a retort c stout hammered iron ; the latter may be one i the iron bottles in which quicksilver is in ported, a short and somewhat wide iron tn. having been fitted to the aperture; the retoi thus charged, is placed upon its side, in a/« nace so constructed that the flame of a vci; strong fire, preferably fed wuth dry wood, nn wrap round it, and maintain every part of it; a very high and uniform degree of heat. cop>per receiver, divided in the centre by diaphragm, is next connected to the iron ])ip and kept cool by the application of ice, whil