APPARATUS—APPETITE. 200 Apozeme, Fr.; Krautepteank, Ger. A decoction; sometimes also applied to an in- fusion made with boiling water. The term is still applied, on the Continent, to some pre- parations (chiefly magistral) of the class. See Decoctions, Ineusions, Mixtuees, &c. APPARA'TUS. [L., Eng.; class, pi., appa- ratus; apparatuses—Webster.] Sj/n. Appaeeil, Fr.; Appaeat, Geeathschapt, Ger. In technical language, the instruments, ; utensils, and mechanical arrangements, em- j ployed in any operation, experiment, or oh-1 serration, or in any art or trade, regarded as a | whole. I The selection, arrangement, application, and [ preservation of apparatus, are matters of the I first importance to the experimentalist, and to | the practical scientific man. In our choice of | them we should give a preference to the least i complicated that will answer the desired pur- : poses; and we should recollect, that strength, | durability, and extreme accuracy of construe- ; tion or graduation, cannot he expected in what j are commonly tenned ‘cheap’ or ‘low-priced’ j articles. In their arrangement and employment. I the application of a certain amount of skill and | judgment, and the possession of a certain apti- tude for manipulation, either natural or ac- quired, will he found absolutely essential to suc- cess. Their treatment and preservation also j deserve our best attention. The general prin- j ciples of order, cleanliness, and security, must never be forgotten. By attention to these points we may greatly economise both our time and means, and avoid the numerous inconveniences and failures which continually arise from their neglect. Many of the most valuable researches, leading to the greatest results, have been performed with the rudest instru- ments and apparatus skilfully employed. The principal experiments of Dr. Black, more espe- cially those by which he enriched science by the discovery of the latency of heat, were made in common ‘ medicine-phials’; and Wollaston per- formed many of his happiest qualitative ana- lyses on slips of common window-glass. Ne- vertheless, though great minds may triumph over great difficulties, it must be acknowledged that the ‘ higher the qualitj^ of the tools we work with,’ the more trustworthy and accu- rate will be the results we seek for, and the greater the facility with which we shall attain them. In all researches involving numbers, or quantity, extreme accuracy and delicacy of apparatus are absolutely necessary. With skil- ful management, a comparatively small and inexpensive apparatus will he found sufficient for most of the purposes of scientific and experimental chemistry. See Laboeatoey, Manipulation, &c. ; also the principal instru- ments and vessels used in chemistry and j^har- macy, under their respective heads. Apparatus. In anatomy and physiology, a catenation of organs all ministering to one general purpose or function; as the digestive apparatus, respiratory a., Spc. APPAR'EL. See Clothin&, Deess, &c. APPARUTION (-rish'-iin). [Eng., Fr.] Pri- marily, an appearance, or that which appears; the semblance of anything; hut now more generally, a ghost, spectre, or other like pre- ternatural appearance. In astronomy, visi- bility, reappearance, as opposed to eclipse or occupation. In meteorology, a transient at- mospheric appearance or phenomena. Many good and eminent men have believed in apparitions; and the boldest minds, fevered by depression and disquietude, have imagined that they have witnessed such revelations; but with these few exceptions, the belief in such appearances has prevailed almost entirely among the ignorant and superstitious of un- enlightened times or populations. Amusing instances of the deception of the senses, in- ducing such a belief, are given in works on ‘ Natural Magicd APPENDIX. [L., Eng.; 2)1., appen'dices, L.; append'ixes, Eng.] Something added or appended. In literature, something added to a volume by way of supplement. In botany, anatomy, ^-c., additional or supplemental organs or parts. APPEN'SA*'. [L. pi.; from ap)pendo, I hang to, up, or on.] Substances suspended from the neck as charms, amulets, or prophylactics. Their action, if any, depends on their exciting the imagination and confidence of the wearer, j Long lists of such substances, with copious I directions for their use, are given by the old I writers; from which we select the following, j as examples :— 1. Root of vervain suspended by a yard of j white riband, in SCEOFULA; the usual medi- j cines being exhibited during its employment. I 2. A root of peony, in epilepsy ; accompa- ] nied by the administration of active cathartics. I 3. Some ‘ magnes arsenicalis, or ‘ camphire' j (camphor), hung to the neck so^ as to reach j the pit of the stomach; to ward off conta- gion. 4. A little ‘argentum vivum’ (quicksilvei'), placed in a small leathern hag, and suspended so as to hang on the breast; as a prophylactic for itch and yeehin. See Amulets, Ar- canum, Necklaces, &c. APP'ETITE. 5yn. Appeti'tus, L.; Apetit, Fr.; Apetit, Begierde, Esslust, Ger. The natural desire of gratification, whether cor- poreal or mental. In physiology, the in- stinctive inclination to perform certain natural functions, as those of digestion and generation; hut o2)pr., the natural desire for food. In psychology and ])hilosophy, the appetites {pi.) are affections of the mind directed to general objects, as fame, glory, or riches; these, when subsequently turned to particular objects, con- stitute the passions, as envy, gratitude, revenge, or love. In its common and un- qualified sense, the word appetite is confined to the desire for food; and in that sense chiefly concerns us here. The sensations of hunger and thirst are 1