3i ACIDIMETRY. (luring the assay; and a glass rod only should! be used as a ‘ stirrer.’ b. Geavimeteically :—The test-liquors or standard solutions of the above methods are made up so as to weigh exactly 1000 grains, instead of to‘measure’ 100 aci dimeter-divisions. Every grain of the test-liquor thus represents •j!gth gr. of alkali; and every 10 gr., 1 gr. of alkali; or respectively, ^th per cent., and 1 per cent. The most convenient vessel for the test-solution is the bottle known as ‘ Schuster’s Alkalimeter ’ (noticed under Acetimetey) ; or Normandy’s modification of it figured and de- scribed above. Whichever is used, it is care- fully weighed whilst empty, and 1000 gr. being placed in the opposite scale, the test-solution, containing exactly one equivalent of base, is poured in, and the whole made up with dis- tilled water (if necessary) so as to restore the balance to an equilibrium. After the process of neutralisation, the acidimeter, with its contents, is again placed in the scales; its previous weight still remaining there. The number of grains required to restore the equilibrium of the balance {i. e., the ‘ loss of weight ’), gives the exact weight of the test- liquor consumed. In all other respects the process is the same as in the ‘ volumetrical method’ already described. II. From the Quantity of Carbonic acid ex- pelled during the process of Saturation :— a. Geavimeteically:— 1. (Method of Fresenius and Will.) This depends on the weight of gaseous carbonic acid which a given weight of the acid-sample under examination is capable of expelling from pure bicarbonate of soda (or of potassa), which is estimated by the loss of weight in the acidi- meter, or apparatus, after the gas, rendered perfectly dry by passing through sulphuric acid, has escaped into the air. Oper. A determined amount of the acid under examination is accurately weighed into the flask A (see engr^ ; and if it be a concen- trated acid, or a solid, it is mixed with or dis- solved in 6 or 8 times its weight of water. The little glass tube (e) is then nearly filled to the brim with pure bicarbonate of soda, in powder, and a fine silken thread is tied round the neck of the tube, by means of which it can be lowered down into the flask (^A), so as to remain perpendicularly suspended when the cork is placed in the latter; the cord being held between the cork and the mouth of the flask. The flask {B) is next about half filled with oil of vitriol, and the tubes being arranged in their places, as represented in the engr.; and time having been allowed for the mixture of acid and water to cool completely, after the increase of heat caused by mixing, the whole apparatus is very accurately weighed. The cork in the flask {A) is then slightly loosened, so as to allow the little tube con- taining the bicarbonate of soda to fall into the acid, and is again instantly fixed aie-tight in its i^lace. The evolution of carbonic acid ! now commences, and continues until the acid in the flask {A) is neutralised. When this takes place, which is easily seen by no bubbles 6 {A.) A wide-mouthed flask, capable of holding 2^ to 3 oz., containing sample for trial (f). {B.) Ditto, capable of holding U to 2 oz., partly filled with oil of vitriol {g). {a, c, d.) Tubes fitting air-tight in the flasks by means of the corks (i) and (j). [b.) Piece of wax fitting air-tight on the end of («). {€.) Small tube capable of holding about 1 drachm of powdered bicarbonate of soda ov potassa. (h ) Open end of the tube (</). (k.) Silk cord fastened to the tube (e). being emitted on shaking the apparatus, the flask A is put into hot water (120^ to 130° Fahr.), and kept there, with occasional agita- tion, until the renewed evolution of gas has completely ceased. The little wax stopper is then taken off the tube (a), the apparatus taken out of the hot water, wiped dry, and suction applied, by means of a perforated cork, or a small India-rubber tube, and the mouth, to the end of the tube (rf), until the sucked air no longer tastes of carbonic acid. The whole is then allowed to become quite cold, when it is replaced in the balance (the other scale still containing the original w^eights), and weights added to restore the equilibrium. The loss of weight represents the exact quantity of dry carbonic acid gas that has been expelled from the bicarbonate of soda, by the action of the acid in the sample examined. The quantity of real acid it contained is then deduced by the following calculation:—Two equivalents of carbonic acid gas (22 y. 2 — 44) bear the same proportion to one equivalent of the acid in question, as the amount of the carbonic acid expelled does to the amount of the ac'id sought. Thus, suppose a dilute sulphuric acid expels 3 gr. of carbonic acid, the arrangement is— 44 : 40 :: 3 : 2727 Consequently, the sample operated on contained 273 gr. (nearly) of dry sulphuric acid. By using the equivalent of the hydrated acid (49) instead of that of the anhydrous acid, the corresponding quantity of such acid present