670 rULIGOKALI-rtJLMINATiNG COMPOUNDS. part; clay, loam, or 7narl, 1 x^art; sand or ashes, 2 parts; water, q. s.; make the mass up wet into balls. For use, these balls are piled on an ordinary fire to a little above the top bar. They are said to produce a heat con- siderably more intense than that of common fuel, and ensure a saving of one half the quan- tity of coals, whilst a fire thus made up will require no stirring, nor fresh fuel for ten hours. The quantity of the combustible ingredient in them should be doubled, when they ai-e in- tended to be used with a very little founda- tion of coal. Obs. Of late years simide fiee-Clay balls have been much used for radiating heat from parlour-grates, and so effecting saving in the consumption of fuel. They are very useful for partially filling up those roomy, old- fashioned, badly constructed grates, which are still to be found in many private houses. Peat and tube, both recent and charred, are commonly used as fuel by the lower classes, in neighbourhoods where they are plentiful. Fir cones or tops contain a great quantity of solid woody in addition to the resinous matter, and are well adapted for domestic fires. Prepared Fuel. Syn. Compressed fuel. Patent f.. Steam f. Many artificial fuels are now in use. The greater number have one chai’acter in common—they are composed of small coal cemented by some bituminous matter. The following are the principal kinds:— Aberdare Patent Steam Fuel. From the ‘small’ of the ‘ South Wales Steam Coal’ mixed with coal, pitch, and compressed by hydraulic machinery. The pitch is broken up, and thoroughly mixed with the small coal over a furnace, in iron pans, in which shafts with obliquely attached blades are continually revolving. The mixture is afterwards pressed into iron moulds by a force equal to about 2\ tons per inch. The weight of a cubic foot of this excellent fuel is 80 lbs,; the space occu- jiied by 1 ton, 28 cubic feet. Case and Morris’s Patent Fuel. From i\\Q ‘ small’ of the ‘best steam coal,’ ground moderately fine, treated so as to absorb a certain jiortion of liquid coal tar, and then jn-essed by machinery into blocks. It is said to occupy less space by about lOg than ordi- nary coal. Grant’s Patent Fuel. This is formed of coal dust, 1 cwt., and coal-tar pitch, 20 lb., melted together by a heat of 220^ Fahr., and moulded into blocks the size of common bricks, under a ]iressure of 5 or 6 tons. These are, lastly, whitewashed. It is heavier than com- mon steam coal, and is said to go fully l-3rd further, by which facility of transjiort and economy is combined. Purified Block Fuel. Tins is prepared by the torrefaction of washed coal dust, and is said to possess in a remarkable degree the advantages of both coke and steam coal. PU'LIGOKA’LI. Prep. (Dr. Polya.) Caustic potassa, 1 part; ivater, q.s.; dissolve; add of wood soot, 5 parts; boil 1 hour, dilute with water, filter, evaporate the filtrate to dryness, and put the product at once into warm, dry bottles. Dose. 2 to 3 gr., thrice a day, made into pills, which must be coated with gum and kept from the air. (See below.) Sulphuretted Fuligokali. Syn. Fuligokali SULPHURETUM, L. Prep. (Dr. Polya.) Caustic potassa, 7 parts; sulphur, 2 xiarts; water, q.s.; dissolve with heat, add of fuliyukali, 30 parts, evaporate to dryness, and preserve it in well- corked dry bottles. Dose, ^c. As the last. Obs. M. Gibert states that he has tried both FULIGOKALI and sulphuretted fuli- gokali on his patients at the Hospital Saint- Louis, both internally and externally, with manifest advantage in various obstinate chronic skin diseases. He made a pommade of 30 grammes (say 1 oz.) of lead ointment, and 1 or 2 grammes (say 20 to 25 gr.) of fuligokali, in which he recognised positive resolvent, deter- sive, and stimulant properties. See Anthra- COKALI. FUL'LER’S EARTH. Syn. ^ Cimolia, C. TERRA, L. A soft, unctuous, friable, greenish or yellowish-gray species of clay, containing 53§ of silica, 10[| of alumina, and about 9g of oxide of iron. After being dug out of the earth, it is thoroughly dried in ovens, and then thrown into cold water, where it soon falls to powder, and is imrified by the common process of edulcoration or washing-over. It is extensively used to extract oil and grease from cloth in the process of ‘ fulling;’ it forms an excellent filtering powder for oils, and is applied as a cooling and healing dressing by the poor to inflamed breasts, excoriations, &c. FUL'MINATING COMPOUNDS. These are numerous, and are scattered through several distinct classes of bodies. Among the most povverful and dangerous are the chloride and IODIDE OF NITROGEN and the fulmi- nates OF SILVER and mercury. See Ful- MiNiC Acid, and below. Fulminating An'timony. Sy7i. Pfropho- RUS OF ANTIMONY, FULMINATING ANTI- MONIAL powder; ANTIMONIUM FULMINANS, L. Prep. 1. (Serullas.) Tartar emetic (dried), 100 parts; lamp black or charcoal powder, 3 parts; triturate together, put it into a crucible that it will 3-4ths fill (pre- viously rubbed inside with charcoal powder), cover it with a layer of dry charcoal powder, and lute on the cover; after 3 hours’ exposure to a strong heat in a ‘ reverberatory furnace,’ and G or 7 hours’ repose to allow it to cool, Ac., cautiously transfer the solid contents of the crucible, as quickly as jiossible, without breaking it, to a wide-mouthed stoppered phial, where, after some time, it will sponta- neously crumble down into a x)0\vder. 2. (‘Ann. de Chim.,’ 1822.) Antimony, 100 parts; carburetted cream of tartar {i. e.