PHYSIC BALLS—PICKLES. 1062 iodine, medicated ether, or tar water; the in- ternal administration of digitalis, wood naphtha, and nmnerons other compounds, have each had enthusiastic advocates, but their once much vaunted effects appear to have been entirely imaginary. Unfortunately, no substance or treatment has yet been discovered capable of curing, or even of permanently arresting, the progress of this disease in its more malignant forms. Evidence, both medical and non-me- dical, recently collected, certainly goes to show that substances of a bland oleaginous character, or which are rich in carbon or in hydrocarbons, exert, under favourable circumstances, an ame- liorating, if not a curative, action in phthisis. The value of pale cod-liver oil, when freely taken by consumptive patients, is indisputable; and the beneficial eftects of that containing quinine (OLETJM JECOEIS ASELLI CXJM QTJINa) is often stiU more perceptible. PHYSIC BALLS. See Yeteeinaey Medi- cines. PrCA. Depraved appetite. (See page 201.) PIC'AMAE. One of the peculiar principles discovered by Reichenbach in beech-tae, and described by him as a viscid, colourless, oily liquid, only feebly odorous, but intensely bit- ter ; insoluble in water; freely soluble in al- cohol, ether, and oils; boiling-point 520^ Fahr.; sp. gr. 1'095. See Keeasote. PICCALIL'LI. See Pickles. PICK'LE. The liquor in which substances used as food are preserved. That for flesh is commonly brine; that for vegetables, vinegar; both of which are commonly flavoured with spices, &c. Prep. 1. (For meat.)—a. From bay salt, 3 lb.; saltpetre, 2| oz.; moist sugar, 1 lb.; allspice and black pepper, of each (bruised), 1 oz. ; water, 9 pints; simmer them together in a clean covered iron or enamelled vessel for 7 or 8 minutes; when the whole has cooled, remove the scum, and pour it over the articles to be preserved. Used for hams, tongues, beef, &c., to which it imparts a fine red colour and a superior flavour. b. From bay salt and common salt, of each, 2 lb. ; moist sugar, 1 lb.; saltpetre, ^ lb.; all- spice (bruised), | oz.; water, 1 gall.; as before. Used chiefly for pork and hams. Common salt may be substituted for bay salt, but it is less powerfully antiseptic, and the flavour is less grateful. 2. (For vegetables)—«. Strong distilled vinegar, to each quart of which oz. of good salt has been added. b. Good distilled vinegar, 4 pints; common salt, 2^ oz.; black pepper, ^ oz.; unbleached Jamaica ginger, 2^ oz.; (the last two bruised, but not dusty;) 7nace (shredded), 4 oz.; sim- mer in an enamelled iron or stoneware vessel, as above, and strain through flannel. Some- times a little capsicum is added. Used either hot or cold, according to the vegetable it is intended to preserve. Lemon Pickle. See Sauces, PICKLES. These well-known articles are easily prepared of the finest quality. The vegetables and fruit, selected of the proper quality and at the proper season, after being well cleansed with cold spring water, are steeped for some time in strong brine", they are then drained and dried, and transferred to bottles or jars; the spice (if any) is then added, the bottles filled up with hot, strong, pickling vinegar, and at once securely corked down and tied over with bladder. As soon the bottles are cold, the corks are dipped into melted wax, the more surely to preserve them air-tight. Good wood or distilled vinegar is, commonly used for this purpose; but the best malt or white wine vinegar of the strength known as No. 22 or 24, is exclusively employed for the finer pickles which are not spiced. In those for early use the ‘steep’ may be made in hot or boiling brine, by which the product will be ready for the table in a much shortei period; but with substances of a succulent and flabby nature, as cabbage, cauliflower, some fruit, &c., or in which crispness is es- teemed a mark of excellence, this is inadmis- sible. To such articles the vinegar should also be added cold, or, at furthest, should be only slightly warmed. As a general rule, the softei and more delicate articles do not require sc long soaking in brine as the harder and coarsei kinds; and they may be often advantageoush pickled by simply pouring very strong pickliWj vinegar over them, without applying heat. It must also be observed that beetroot, and othei like substances which are sliced, as well as cer tain delicate fruits, must not be steeped at aU The spice is commonly added whole to the hot ties; but a more economical plan is to steep il > (bruised) for some time, or to simmer it in the# vinegar before using the latter, as in the forms given under Pickle {above). The spices and flavouring ingredients em- ployed for pickles are—allspice, black au(^ white pepper, capsicums or red pods, cloves, garlic, ginger, horseradish, lemon peel, mace, mustard, shallots, and turmeric. These arc chosen with reference to the particular variety of the pickle, or the taste of the consumer. In the preparation of pickles it is highly necessary to avoid the use of metallic vessels, as both vinegar and brine rapidly corrode brass, copper, lead, &c., and thus become poi- sonous (see page 481). These liquids may bf best heated or boiled in a stoneware by the heat of a water bath or a stove. Commoi\ glazed earthenware should be avoided, eithei for making or keeping the pickles in, as the glazing usually contains lead. Pickles shoulo also be kept from the air as much as possible and should only be touched wuth wooden oi![ bone spoons. They are also better prepared iuj small jars, or bottles, than in large ones, as thct more frequent opening of the latter expose^j them too much. Copper or verdigris is frev quently added to pickles to impart a greem colour, or the vinegar is boiled in a copper!