908 MESITILOL —INIETACETONE. heat; and on potassa being added to it, runs into globules of mercury. It is insoluble in nitric or bydrocbloric acid, but dissolves in a mixture of them. Spirit, water, or acetic acid, digested on it, acquires no colom', nor is either of these menstrua afterwards affected by iodide of potassium.’^ (Ph. L. 1836.) See Vermilion. SuPphuret of Mercury and Antimony. See Antimony (Etbiops of). Tar'trate of Mercury. Syn. Subtartrate OE MERCURY; HydRARGYRI TARTRAS, L. Prep. 1. (Swediaur.) By boiling gray oxide of mercury in a solution of tartaric acid until saturated, and then evaporating so that crys- tals may form as the liquid cools. 2. By adding a solution of tartrate of potassa to a cold solution of subnitrate of mercury in water slightly acidulated with nitric acid, as long as a precipitate forms. Bose. | to 2 gr. Mercury with Chalk. Syn. Quicksilter WITH CHALK, MERCURIAL POWDER, GRAY POWDER, Alkalized mercury ; Hydrar- gyrum CUM CRETA (Ph. L. E. & D,), Mercu- RIUS ALKALISATUS, iETHIOPS ABSORBENS, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. & E.) Quicksilver, 3 oz.; pre- pared chalk, 5 oz.; triturated together until globules are no longer visible. 2. (Ph. D.) Quicksilver, 1 oz.; prepared chalk, 2 oz.; as last. 3. (Ph. D. 1826.) As quicksilver and mag- nesia, Ph. D. 1826, but precipitated chalk. This is about twice as strong as the quicksilver and chalk of the present Pharmacopoeias. Prop., A gray powder. “ When pure, part is evaporated by heat; what remains is colourless, and totally soluble in acetic acid with effervescence; this solution is not coloured by sulphuretted hydrogen. These substances can scarcely be so diligently triturated that no globules shall be visible.” (Ph. L. 1836.) As commonly met with, this powder contains too little mercury. When properly prepared, it effervesces when digested in cold dilute acetic acid, and the dark undissolved portion, when dried, should be equal to f of the weight of the powder employed -, this residuum should also be totally dissipated by heat, without incandescence, and readily and entirely soluble in nitric acid; when examined by the micro- scope, it should exhibit minute globules of mercury unmixed with foreign matter. Uses. Quicksilver with chalk is a very mild mercurial, and also possesses antacid proper- ties. It is much used in the syphilitic affec- tions of infancy, in disordered or deficient action of the liver, clay-coloured stools, purg- ing, &c.; and as an alterative in chronic glan- dular enlargements, &c. Dose. 5 to 20 gr., for an adult; 1 to 3 gr., for children. Obs. To hasten the extinction of the glo- bules, sufficient water is commonly added to form a portion of the chalk into a pasty mass. Mr. Tyson has proposed the following sub- stitute for the preparation of the Pharmaco- poeias:—Calomel, 4 oz.; liquor of potassa, 6j fl. oz., or q. s.; triturate together, add of liquor of ammonia, ^ fl. oz., and again triturate; de- cant the clear liquid, well wash and gently dry the bluish powder, and mix it with twice its weight of prepared chalk. See Suboxide OF Mercury. Mercury with Magne'sia. Syn. Hydrar- ! GYRUM CUM MAGNESIA (Ph. B.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. D.) From mercury, 1 oz.; carbonate of magnesia, 2 oz.; triturated together until the globules disappear. 2. (Ph. D. 1826.) Quicksilver and manna, I of each, 8 parts; triturate together (adding enough water to make a paste) till the globules disappear, then add of carbonate of magnesia, 1 part, mix, and further add of warm water, 64 parts; again well mix, and after repose decant the clear; repeat the washing with fresh water, a second -and a third time, tb.en add 3 parts more of carbonate of magnesia, mix well, and dry the whole on bibulous paper. Uses and doses the same as those of mercury and chalk. Mercury with Gum. Syn. Hydrargyruji CUM acacia, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) Mercury, 1 part; gum, 2 parts; make a mucilage with l-4th the gum, rub the mercury with it till extinguished, add the remainder of the gum with water, q. s., mix well, dry by a gentle heat, and pulverize. Bose, ^c. As the last. Mercury with Sugar. Syn. Mercurius SACCHARATUS, HYDRARGYRUM SACCHARATUM, L. Prep. From quicksilver and ivhite sugar, of each, 1 oz.; oil of tansey, | fl. dr.; triturate till the globules disappear. Dose, f to 1 dr. ; as a vermifuge. MESITTLOL. An oily liquid obtained by distilling acetone along with about half its volume of Nordhausen ov fuming sulphuric acid. It is lighter than water, is very inflammable, and has a feeble garlic odour. MESITYL. Syn. Mesitule. This name has been applied by Kane to the theoretical organic radical or salt-basyle, of which acetone is presumed to be the hydrated oxide. MES'LIN. A mixture of various kinds of grain. (Brande.) MESOXAL'IC ACID. A compound formed with other products when a saturated solution of alloxanate of baryta or strontia is heated to the boiling-point. Prep. A solution of alloxan is slowly added to a boiling solution of acetate of lead, and the heavy granular precipitate (‘ mesoxalate of lead^) is collected, washed, and decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen ; the filtered solution yields crystals by evaporation. Prop., ^c. Very acid taste and reaction. Its salts are called mesoxalates. Those with baryta and lime are only slightly soluble in water. Mesoxalate of silver is insoluble, and suffers decomposition, with effervescence, when gently heated. METAC'ETONE. Syn. Propione. A colour- less, ethereal liquid, obtained by distilling, a mixture of sugar, 1 part, and finely powdered