335 I^LISTER. tinct in a strong light, as that of day; but clear and pleasant in the dusk of evening and at night. Its chief causes are excessive exposure of the eyes to the direct influence of very strong or glaring light, or to heat, or both of them together; and is often one of the sequelae of ophthalmia (which see). Night Blindness. Syn. Day'-sight; He- MEEALO'PIA, L. An affection of the eye, the reverse of the preceding, in which objects are clearly seen only in broad daylight. In the beginning of the complaint the patient con- : tinues to be able to see, though less clearly, for a short time after sunset, and even by moon- light, and perhaps distinctly by bright candle- light ; hut after a short time this power is lost. It most frequently occurs in hot climates, and low latitudes at sea. Its chief causes are fatigue and exposure of the eyes to the glare of the tropical sun, probably coupled with gastric : derangement. In some cases it is congenital, ' and is then generally incurable. The treatment consists in avoiding exciting causes, and en- deavouring to restore the tone of the stomach, I and the general health, by the usual methods. ; The eyes at the same time should be topically medicated by the frequent use of cold water, or mild astringent collyria. See Ophthalmia j (Chronic). I BLIS'TER. Syn. Pap'ula, Pus'thla, L. ; Pustule, Vessie, &c., Fr.; Blase, Blattee, Ger. A bladder or vesicle caused by the de- position of serous fluid between the ‘cuticle^ and the ‘ derma ^ or true skin, occasioned by the application of a ‘ vesicant,’ or by a burn, scald, or friction. Blister. Syn. Vesicato"eium, L. ; Epis- PASTIQUE, Vesicatoiee, Fr.; Blasen-pelas- ; tee, B.-stopf, Ger. A substance which vesi- j cates or raises blisters; in pop. lang., a vesi- : eating plaster or similar application. The use of ^blisters’ is very ancient, and appears to date back long prior to the time of Hippocrates. Indeed, their value as cutaneous stimulants and counter-irritants appears to have been recognised by the medical faculty of all nations down to the present time. It is a principle sufficiently established with regard to the living system, that where a morbid action exists, it may often be removed by in- ducing an action of a different kind, as a state of excitement or irritation, in the same or a neighbouring part. In this way is explained the utility of blisters in local inflammation and spasmodic action, and it is this principle which regulates their application in pneumonia, gas- tritis, hepatitis, phrenitis, angina, rheumatism, colic, spasmodic affections of the stomach, &fc.— diseases in which they are employed with the most marked advantage. A similar principle exists with respect to pain; exciting one pain often relieves another. Hence blisters fre- quently give relief in neuralgia, toothache, and other like painful affections. Lastly, blisters, by their operation, communicate a stimulus to the whole system, and raise the vigour of the circulation. Hence, in part, their utility in fevers of the typhoid kind, though in such cases they are used with still more advantage to obviate or remove local inflammation. Blisters are commonly prepared wdth can- tharides-plaster, or with some other prepara- tion of cantharides; and, in the former case, usually have their surface sprinkled over with powdered Spanish fly; whilst the blistering surface is surrounded with a margin spread with common adhesive plaster, for the purpose of causing them to adhere to the part to which they are applied. In order to prevent the action of the cantharides upon the mucous membrane of the bladder, or urinary organs, they are also often spiinkled with a little pow- dered camphor, or better still, are moistened with camphorated ether, which, on its evapora- tion, leaves a thin layer of camphor on the surface; but care must be taken that the layer be not too thick, as in that case the plaster would not take effect. With a like object, a piece of thin book-muslin or tissue- paper (silver-paper) is frequently placed be- tween the blistering surface of the plaster and the skin; the efficacy of which may be still further heightened by first soaking the ‘muslin’ or ‘paper’ in olive or almond oil. The usual time an ordinary blister of can- tharides-plaster is allowed to remain in contact with the skin is from 10 to 12 hours. It is then gently removed. The subsequent treat- ment depends on the object in view. When it is not wished to maintain a discharge from the blistered surface, the vesicle is cut with the point of a pair of scissors at its most depending part, to let out the fluid which it contains, followed by a dressing of spermaceti or other simple ointment; but when the case requires the blister to be ‘ kept open’ or to be converted into a peepet'ual blistee, as it is sometimes called, the whole of the detached cuticle is carefully removed with the scissors, and the part is dressed with either the ointment of cantharides or of savine, at first, more or less diluted with lard or simple ointment, with an occasional dressing of resin cerate. According to Mr. Crowther, the blistered surface is best kept clean, by daily fomentation with warm water. Of late years, to obviate the unpleasant effects occasionally arising from the common blister, various compounds having cantharides for their base, as well as fabrics spread with them, have been brought before the public. These are noticed hereafter. See Plastees, Vesicants, &c. Extempora"neous Blisters. Among the best of these may be mentioned the fol- lowing :— 1. A piece of lint dipped in the strongest vinegar of cantharides, and immediately after its application to the skin, covered over with a piece of strapping, or preferably a piece of sheet gutta-percha or oiled-silk, to prevent evapora- tion. Raises a blister in from 5 to 8 minutes.