1179 SACK—SAFFRON. ixniSiCFS, L. Prep. Dissolve of aloes, 1 oz., ^strong decoction of fresh rue, | pint; next d a piece of soft muslin in 8 folds, large bugh to cover the chest and part of the •mach; steep this in the decoction, and dry I in the shade; lastly, place in a small bag, [e side of which is formed of scarlet silk or i'ol, and the other, intended to be worn next }3 skin, of the finest net or gauze. A cele- ited domestic remedy for consumption and | hma. It is intended to be constantly worn the chest. Resolv'ent Sachet. Syn. Melting bag; CCULITS EESOLVENS, L. Prep. 1. (Dr. eslau.) Iodide of potassium, 1 part; sal moniac, 8 parts; dry, and reduce each sepa- ;ely to fine powder; mix them, and enclose :)z. to 1 oz. of the mixed powder in a small 7 of linen or silk. Used as a resolvent to llolent tumours, especially goitres and I’ofulous indurations. It should be worn on |3 part night and day for some time. The irt next the skin should be well pricked with leedle, and the powder shaken up and read- ited every 2 or 3 days; and it should be lewed about once a fortnight. 12. (Trousseau & Reveil.) Iodide of potas- m, 1 part; burnt sponge, 4 parts; fine saw- \st, 5 parts; as before. iSACE. (From sec, Fr., dry.) A wine used I our ancestors, supposed by some to have |en Rhenish or Canary; but, with more Dbability, by others, to have been dey )UNTAIN—VIN D'EsPAGNE ; VIN SEC—(How- , ‘Fr. and Eng. Diet.,* 1650). Falstaff calls i‘SHEEEis SACK* (sherry sack), from Xeres, sea town of Corduba, where that kind of i3k (wine) is made. (Blount.) At a later iriod, the term came to be used as a general |me for all sweet wines. SAP'FLOWER. Syn. Bastaed saefeon, yee’s s.; Caethamls, L. The florets of \rthamus tinctorious, a plant cultivated in |tain, Egypt, and the Levant. It contains l o colouring principles—the one yellow, id the other eed. The first is removed by iter, and is rejected. The second is easily [ssolved out by weak solutions of the car- inated alkalies, and is again precipitated on le addition of an acid. This property is ;ken advantage of in the manufacture of j)tJGE, and in dyeing silk and cotton. iThe most lively tints of cheeey, flame, j^ESH, OEANGE-EED, POPPY, and EOSE COLOUE, 'e imparted to silk by the following process, odified to suit the particular shade required: I The saffiower (previously deprived of its i'llow colouring matter by water) is exhausted lith water containing either carbonate of soda !• of potassa, in the proportion of about of |ie weight of the prepared dye-stuff acted on; iie resulting liquid is next treated with pure mon juice until it acquires a distinct and rich !*d colour; the silk is then introduced and limed about as long as it is perceived to take |p colour, a little more lemon juice being added, as may appear necessary; for deep shades, this is repeated with one or more fresh baths, the silk being dried and rinsed between each im- mersion; it is, lastly, brightened by turning it for a few minutes through a bath of warm water, to which a little lemon juice has been previously added. For flame coloite, the silk should receive a slight shade with annotta before putting it into the safflower bath. For the deeper shades, when expense is an object, a little archil is commonly added to the first and second bath. See Cathae* MINE. SAF'FRON. The prepared stigmata or stig- mas of the Crocus sativus, or saffron crocus. There are two principal varieties known in commerce:— 1. (Saffeon, Hay s.; Ceocfs in fceno, C. Hispaniolus, Ceoci stigmata ; Ceocus— Ph. L. E. & D.) This consists of the stigmas, with part of the styles, carefully picked from the other parts of the flowers, and then dried on paper, by a very gentle heat, generally, in a portable oven constructed for the purpose. 2. (Cake saffeon ; Ceocus in placenta). This, professedly, merely varies from the last in being compressed into a cake, after it has become softened by the fire, and being then dried in that condition. The 'cake saffron* of commerce is now, however, mostly, if not entirely, composed of safflower made into a paste with some sugar and gum water, rolled out on paper into oval cakes 10 to 12 inches long, 9 or 10 broad, and about |th of an inch thick, and then dried. “ I can detect neither saffron nor marigold in them.** (Dr. Pereira.) Pur. Saffron, of all the articles of com- merce, except French brandy, is, perhaps, the one most largely and constantly adulterated. Abroad it is frequently mixed with safflower, and in England with 'prepared marigolds* or ‘ French (mock) saffron.* These frauds may be detected by the inferiority of the colour, and by soaking the leaves in water, when the stigmas of the Crocus sativus may be readily distinguished from the florets of safflower and the petals of marigolds. Winckler and Gruner propose to detect these substances by means of a solution of nitrate of silver or of sesqui- chloride of iron. The infusion of true saffron is not altered by these reagents, but that of either of the above-mentioned adulterants is rendered opaque, and is at length precipitated. “ It consists of tripartite filaments, of an orange-red colour, with the small filaments towards* the apex dilated.** (Ph. L.) In the wholesale drug trade prepared marigolds are not only employed to mix with genuine saffron, but are extensively sold to the country dealers for that purpose. Old and dry saffron is 'freshened up ’ by rubbing it between the hand, slightly oiled, and then repicking it. Prop., ^c. Saffron is anodyne, cordial, emmenagogue, and exhilarant; but is now seldom employed, except as an adjuvant, in medicine. Amongst cooks, confectioners, and