SCUDAMOKF/S LOTION—SEED. 1191 lence. Sea air and sea-bathing often prove l)st beneficial when all other remedies have Lied. I SCUDAMORE’S LO'TION. See Gout Lotion age 859). !SCURF. Syn. Fuefuea. Scurf “is a na- iral and healthy formation, and though it lay be kept from accumulating, it cannot be I evented. It is produced on every part of ie body where hair is found, although, from e more active growth of hair on the scalp, e facilities for collecting, and the contrast of lour, it strikes the eye most disagreeably in I at situation. This will show how futile any tempt must be which shall have for its ject to prevent the formation of the scurf. may be removed, and should be removed, ery day, with the hair-brush j but pre- liution is impossible, inasmuch as it is opposed a law of nature. Occasionally, as a morbid tion, an unusual quantity of scurf is produced, which case medical means may be adopted bring the scalp into a more healthful ate.” (Eras. Wilson.) In such cases the lily use of some mild stimulating or de- rgent wash, with due attention to the sto- ach and bowels, will generally abate this inoyance. SCUR'VY. Syn. Scoebutus, L. This disease tmmences with indolence, sallow looks, debi- :y, and loss of spirits; the gums become sore |id spongy, the teeth loose, and the breath itid; the legs swell, eruptions appear on dif- jrent parts of the body, and, at length, the itient sinks under general emaciation, diar- [loea, and haemorrhages. 1 The treatment of ordinary cases of this j Sease mainly consists in employing a diet of esh animal and green vegetable food, with ild ale, beer, or lemonade, as beverages; Tupulously avoiding salted and dried meat, be fresh-squeezed juice of lemons is, perhaps, ’ all other substances, the most powerful jmedy in this disease in its early stages, ad is useful in all of them. Effervescing raughts formed with the bicarbonate of po- xssa (not soda) are also excellent. See Po- (iSSA. SEALING WAX. See Wax. SEA SICKNESS. The most effectual pre- entive of sea sickness appears to be the hori- ontal position. When there is much pain, fter the stomach has been well cleared, a few rops of laudanum may be taken, or an opium laster may be applied over the region of the fcomach. Persons about to proceed to sea liiould put their stomach and bowels in proper jrder, by the use of mild aperients, and even n emetic, if required, when it will generally e found that a glass of warm and weak randy-and-water, to which 15 or 20 drops of \iudanum, or, still better, 1 or 2 drops of \reasote, have been added, will effectually pre- sent any disposition to sea sickness, provided |he bowels be attended to, and excess in eating md drinking be at the same time avoided. A spoonful of crushed ice, in a wine-glassful of cold water, or weak brandy-and-water, will often afford relief when all other means fail. Smoking at sea is very apt to induce sickness. M. F. Curie, in the ‘Comptes Rendus,’ asserts that drawing in the breath as the vessel descends, and exhaling it as it ascends, on the billows, by preventing the movements of the diaphragm acting abnormally on the phrenetic nerves, prevent sea sickness. On this Mr. Atkinson, at one of the meetings of the British Association, observed that—if a person, seated on board ship, holding a tumbler filled with water in his hand, makes an effort to prevent the water running over, at the same time allowing not merely his arm, but also his whole body, to participate in the movements, he will find that this has the effect of prevent- ing the giddiness and nausea that the rolling and tossing of the vessel have a tendency to produce in inexperienced voyagers. If the person is suffering from sickness at the com- mencement of his experiment, as soon as he grasps the glass of liquid in his hand, and suffers his arm to take its course and go through the movements alluded to, he feels as if he were performing them of his own free will, and the nausea abates immediately, and very soon ceases entirely, and does not return so long as he suffers his arm and body to assume the postures into which they seem to be drawn. Should he, however, resist the free course of his hand, he instantly feels a thrill of pain, of a peculiarly stunning kind, shoot through his head, and experiences a sense of dizziness and returning nausea. SEBAC'IC ACID. Prep. Distil fat, oil, or olein, in an earthen retort, and treat the pro- duct with boiling water as long as that liquid deposits anything on cooling; wash the crystals in cold water, and recrystallize from boiling water, as before, repeating the process until the crystals become colourless. Prop., &fc. Light, pearly scales, resembling those of BENZOIC ACID; it is very soluble in hot water, ether, and alcohol; it fuses when melted, and sublimes unchanged. Sebacic acid has been recently formed by the action of potassa on castor oil. SED'ATIVES. Syn. Sedativa, L. Medi- cines and agents which diminish the force of the circulation or the animal energy, and allay pain. Foxglove, henbane, tobacco, potassio- tartrate of antimony, and several of the neutral salts and acids, act as sedatives. Cold is, perhaps, the most powerful agent of this class. SEED. Syn. Semen, L. The seeds of plants are conspicuous for their vast number and variety, and their extreme usefulness to man. The seeds of certain of the Grammacca furnish him with his daily bread; some of those of the Leguminosce, in either the immature or ripe state, supply his table with wholesome escu- lents, or provide a nourishing diet for his 1 domestic animals; whilst those of numerous