ANTIMONY—ANTIPATHY. 195 I i jsenicj and sometimes manganese. For their detection, see p. OOO* goodness is com- monly estimated by its compactness and weight, the largeness and distinctness of the striae, and the volatility of its sulphuret. " Striated j j (entirely) soluble in hot hydrochloric acid.” j(Ph. L.) “ Water throws down a white preci- jpitate from this solution, and the strained I liquor then gives a reddish precipitate with ihydrosulphuric acid.” (Ph. L. 1836.) ! Uses, cfc. Chiefly as a source of metallic anti- mony, and of the oxide in the preparation of other antimonials. Exhibited alone it possesses little activity unless it meets with acid in the Iprimae viae, when it occasionally acts with con- siderable violence both as an emetic and ca- thartic.—Bose. 10 to 30 gr., in powder; as an alterative and diaphoretic, in rheumatism, gout, scrofula and glandular affections, and in lepra, scabies, and some other skin diseases. It is a favourite diaphoretic, alterative, and resolvent, in veterinary medicine, particularly in skin diseases. Farriers and grooms frequently mix a little of it with the food of horses to im- prove their coat andpromotetheir ‘condition.’— Dose, for a horse, 1 to 4 dr,, in fine powder, )ften combined with nitre and sulphur; for :attle, i to 1 oz., or even 1| oz.; dogs, 5 or , 5 to 20 or 30 gr.; HOGS, 20 to 30 gr., twice or xhrice daily. According to Dr. Paris, it is one ■)f the ingredients in Spilsbury’s Drops. It is I ilso an ingredient in Tisane de Feltz. See Khtimony, Oxysulphtjeet op axtimony, (See. (and below). S: 2. Pentasul'phuret of Antimony. Syn. Pee- I iUL'PHUEET OF ANTIMONY, GoLD'EN SULPHU- ^ SET OP A., TeIJE G. S. OF A. j ANTIM0"NII pentasulphuee'thm, a. peesulphtjee'tum, A.. SULPHTJEE'tUM AU"EETJM, a. S. a. VE”ETrM, Sul'phue auea'tum*, StibThm stjlphtjea'- rUM AUEANTl'ACEMf, &C., L.; SOUFEE D’OE, SULFUEE d’antimoine oeange, &c., Fr. Prep. 1. (Liebig.) Tersulphuret of antimony, 72 parts; dry carbonate of soda, 68 parts; hy- irate of lime (fresh), 52 parts; sulphur, 13 parts; and water, q. s.; are boiled together ibr some hours, and the liquid being filtered kvhilst hot, is concentrated by evaporation, and then set aside to crystallise; the crystals 'Schlippe’s SALT; Sulphantimo”niate of so'dium) are redissolved in distilled water, and iilute sulphuric acid is added to the ‘ solution ’ is long as it causes a precipitate; this latter 19^ then collected on a calico-filter, washed with cold distilled-water, and dried by a gentle beat. 2. (P.C.) By adding dilute sulphuric acid \ to the mother-liquor from which Icermes has been deposited, and washing the sediment, as lefore. The product of the process of the Ph. Hann. (oxysulphtjeet of antimony. No. 3) produces a nearly similar compound. 3. (Rose.) By passing sulphuretted hydro- gen through a solution of antimonic acid in 'lydrochloric acid. Prop., 8fc. A beautiful orange-red, odour- less, tasteless powder, consisting of 1 equiv. of antimony, 5 eq. of sulphur, and a little com- bined water. In its medical properties it closely resembles ‘kermes mineral’ and the common ‘ oxysulphuret of antimony.’ Its chemical ac- tion is that of a true sulphur-acid.—Dose. i gr. to 2 or 3 gr. See Oxysulphueet of Antimony, &c. [For Golden Sulphuret of Antimony, see Pentasulphueet of Antimony, and Oxy- sulphueet OF A., ante.] Sul'phuret of Antimony and Lime. Syn. Antimo''nii et Cal'cis Sulphuee'tum, L. Prep, (Van Mons.) Golden sulphuret of anti- mony, 1 part; quick-lime, 3 parts; triturate together, then add of boiling water, 24 parts ; evaporate to dryness, constantly stirring, and keep it in a well-stoppered bottle. Diapho- retic, emetic, resolvent, and alterative. It has been highly extolled in gout, rheumatism, scrofula, and certain skin diseases.—Dose, 1 to 6 or 8 gr. It is said to form a cheap and most efiicient substitute for James’s powder. Sulphuret of Antimony and Soda. Syn. Sulphantimo"niate of so'dium, Schlippe’s antimo"nial SALT; Antimo"nii et so'dii sulphuee'tum, &c., L. Prep. 1. (M. Vanden Corput.) Effloresced sulphate of soda, 8 parts ; sulphuret of antimony, 6 parts; charcoal, 3 parts; triturate them together, and then ex- pose the mixture to a red heat, in a covered crucible, until the fused mass ceases to throw up scum ; boil the residuum in a porcelain ves- sel with sulphur, 1 part, and distilled water, q. s.; filter whilst hot, and lastly, evaporate, and crystallise. 2. See Pentasulphueet of Antimony. Prop., 8fc. Soluble; decomposed by strong acids and alkalies. Its medical properties are said to be intermediate between those of the precipitated sulphuret and tartar-emetic.— Dose. I to 1 gr. Tanffate of Antimony (?). Syn. Antimo"- Nii tann'as, L. Prep. Precipitate a decoction of cinchona, or a solution of tannin, with a so- lution of tartar emetic, and collect the sedi- ment.—Dose. 2 to 10 gr., in mucilage; as a contra-stimulant. Almost inert; an unscien- tific and a useless preparation. Tar'tarised Antimony. See Potassio-tae- TEATE OF Antimony. Vit'rifled Antimony. See Glass of Anti- mony. AN'TIMONY-BASES. See Stibethyle, &c. ANTIP'ATHY. Syn. Antipathi'a, L. (from dvri, against or opposite, and T:dBoQ affection or disease, Gr.); Antipathie, Fr., Ger.; Ab- NEIGUNG, Ger. In medicine, the method of treating diseases by employing remedies which produce effects of an opposite character to those of the disease in which they are given. It forms the greater part of modern medical treatment, although it dates back to the times of Hippocrates and Galen. The administra- tion of purgatives to relieve ‘ constipation,’ of narcotics to diminish ‘ sensibility to pain/