906 MERCUllY. pints j dissolve, and add of liquor of polassa, 28 fl, oz.; drain the precipitate, wash it in distilled water, and dry it by a gentle heat. Obs. A bright orange-red powder. It usu- ally contains a little combined water; hence its readier solubility in acids than the oxide prepared by heat. “ When heated sufficiently, it yields oxygen, and the mercury either runs into globules or is totally dissipated. It is entirely soluble in hydrochloric acid." (Ph. L. 1836.) The preparation of the shops has fre- quently a brick-red colour, and contains a little oxychloride of mercury, aiusing from too little alkali being used. 2. By]| Calcination of Metallic Mercury (Red pkecipitate pee, se, Calcined mee- cuEYf, Coagulated M.f; Hydeaegyeus CALCINATES—Pli. L. 1788.) The mercury is placed in a glass vessel having a narrow mouth and a broad bottom, and exposed to a heat of about 600° Fahr., until it is converted into red scales. Ohs. This process is very tedious and un- satisfactory, as it requires considerable atten- tion, and generally occupies several weeks to complete it. It is now obsolete. The product has the form of small brilliant scales, of a ruby red colour. 3. By Calcination of Nitrate of Mercury (Niteic oxide of meecijey. Red peecipi- TATE ; HYDEAEGYEI NITEICO-OXYDUM—Ph. L., H. o. EUBETJM—Ph. L. & D.). Mercury, 3 lb.; nitric acid, 18 fl. oz. (1^ lb., Ph. L. 1836); water, 2 quarts; dissolve by a gentle heat, evaporate to dryness, powdei*, and calcine this in a shallow' vessel, with a gradually in- creased heat, until red vapours cease to arise. The processes of the Ph. E. and D. are similar, except that the Dublin College directs the evaporation and calcination to be performed in the same vessel, without powdering or stir- ring the mass. Obs. Bright red crystalline scales, which usually contain a little undecoinposed per- nitrate of mercury; in other respects, it re- sembles the last two preparations. It is more generally used as an escharotic and in oint- ments than the precipitated oxide. It is vola- tilized by heat without the evolution of ni- trous vapours. “ It consists of crystalline, shining, red scales ; at an intense heat it sub- limes, and gives out no acid vapours. It is (entirely) soluble in hydrochloric and in nitric acid." (Ph. L.) “ Neither lime water nor sulphuretted hydrogen produces any change in water in which it has been boiled." (Ph. L. 1836.) According to Mr. Brande, it contains about 2^ per cent, of nitric acid. According to Mr. Barker, the process of the Ph. D. yields the finest coloured product; but Mr. Brande states that ‘^the nitrate requires to be con- stantly stirred during the process, which is usually performed in a cast-iron pot." On the large scale, the evaporation is generally conducted in a shallow earthen dish, and as soon as the mass becomes dry a second dish \s 1 inverted over it, and the calcination is con- tinned, without disturbance, until the process is concluded. The heat of a sand bath is em- ployed. 100 lb. of mercury and 48 lb. of nitric acid (sp. gr. 1*48) yield 112 lb. of red precipitate. (Brande.) Uses, ^c. Red oxide of mercury, wffiether obtained by calcination or precipitation, pos- sesses the same general properties. It is very slightly soluble in w'ater, but sufficiently so to give that fluid an alkaline reaction and a me- tallic taste. The test of purity given in the Ph. L. 1836, therefore, requires some qualifi- cation. It was formerly employed in medi- cine to induce salivation; but is now chiefly used as an escharotie, either in the form of powder or made into an ointment. Bose. | to 1 gr., combined with opium. It is very poisonous. Panace'a of Mercury. Calomel. Phos'phate of Mercury. Syn. Hydeaegyei PHOSPHAS, L. Prep. Add a solution of sub- nitrate of mercury (slightly acidulated wdth nitric acid) to a solution of phosphate of soda, and wash and dry the precipitate wffiich forms. In its physical characters it closely resembles calomel, than wduch it is said to be more ap- propriate in certain cases, especially in secon- dary syphilis. Alkalies turn it black. Dose. i to 1 gr., made into a pill vvith sugar and aromatics. Potas'sio-tar'trate of Mercury. Syn. Pees- saa'in's yegeto-meecueial salt; Hydeae- gyei POTASSio-TAETEAS, L. Prep. (Van Mons.) To a boiling saturated solution of ni- trate (subnitrate) of mercury add, drop by drop, a boiling saturated solution of bitartrate of potassa, as long as a precipitate forms; w'ash this in cold water, dissolve it in boiling water, and set the solution aside to crystallize. Bose. i to 2 gr. It forms the basis of the once cele- brated liqueur de Pressavin, but is now seldom used. According to Soubeiran, its composi- tion is variable. Precip'itates of Mercury. 1. Black peeci- PITATE, Hahnemann’s soluble mercury (basic subnitrate of mercury and ammonia). 2. Geeen p. (meecueius pe^cipitattjs a^eidis, la- CEETA A'lEiDis), from equal parts of mercury ; and copper, separately dissolved in nitric acid, I the solutions mixed, evaporated to dryness, ' and then calcined until red fumes cease to arise. Caustic. 3. Red. p., nitric oxide of mercury. 4. White p., ainmonio-chloride of mercury. Submu'Tiate of Mercury*. Calomel. SuPphates of Mercury. The following arc the principal compounds of mercury and sul- phuric acid. 1. SubsuPphate of Mercury. Syn. Sulphate OF THE SUBOXIDE OF MEECUEY, PeOTOSUL- PHATE OF M.f; Hydeaegyei subsulphas,L. Prep. By adding sulphuric acid to a solution of subnitrate of mercury. The salt falls as a white crystalline powder. (See below.) 2, ProtosuPphate of Mercury, Syn. »Suii- ,