AMMONIA. 3 In the manner noticed under Pota.ssa. i bonate OF Ammonia. which soon regain their previrnis colours, es- ! the fumes of bromine, chlorine, and hydrocyanic pecially on the application of heat:—3. By | acid. (Smee.) producing dense white fumes when brought in | Ant., S(c. The vapour of acetic acid or corn- contact with those of hydrochloric acid or ' mon vinegar, freely inhaled. It may be pro- acetic acid; as for instance, by holding a glass- | duced by sprinkling a little on a piece of hot rod or stopper, moistened with the latter, over | iron, as a heated shovel. If bronchial inflam- the former:—4. By imparting a deep-blue tint mation follows, it must be treated by purga- to solutions of salts of copper. The salts of i tives and a low diet; and, if severe, and the ammonia are known by—1. The exhalation of j patient be plethoric or robust, by venesection ammoniacal gas (recognised by its odour), when { or cupping. triturated or mixed and heated with caustic Uses. Ammonia is employed in numerous potassa, soda, or lime:'—2. Added to a solution of bichloride of platinum, they produce a heavy yellow, crystalline precipitate, consisting: of processes in chemistry and the arts ; but chiefly in the form of ‘ liquor of ammonia,’ ‘ spirits of hartshorn,’ &c., and in combination, under the minute octahedrons easily discernible under the | form of salts. In its pure or gaseous state it microscope:—3. With protonitrate of mercury, | possesses little practical interest, a i/ac/t precipitate:—4. With bichloride of mer-1 Gen. Commentary. Although no process has cury, a heavy, white precipitate:—5. With a | yet been discovered by which ammonia may concentrated solution of tartaric acid, a crys- \ be produced by the direct combination of hy- talline, white precipitate, nearly similar to that drogen and nitrogen, it is often generated given with salts of potassa:—6. They are j w^hen these elements are presented to each nearly all soluble in water, volatile, and crys- \ other in the nascent state, as during the dis- tallisable. Estim. The quantity of gaseous ammonia in pure v/ater of ammonia is easily determined from the specific gravity of the liquid, or from its saturating pow^er.^ When impure or mixed with other substances, a given weight of the sample is placed in a small retort, the end of which is made to dip into a vessel containing dilute hydrochloric acid. A strong solution of caustic potassa is then poured into the retort, and heat applied by means of a small spirit lamp. When all the ammonia is distilled over. ruption and production of other compounds. Thus, wdien a large excess of hydrogen is burned in the atmosphere, and when the elec- tric spark is passed through a mixture of nitrogen and oxygen in the presence of hydro- gen and aqueous vapour, or through moist atmospheric air, niteate of ammonia is formed. When iron oxidises from the decom- position of w^ater, sesquioxide of iron and AMMONIA result; and a similar change and combination occur wdiere the hydrate of potassa, soda, lime, or baryta, is heated in the the acid solution is evaporated to dryness, by air, or in hydrogen, with iron, zinc, lead, tin, the heat of a water-bath, and the residuum arsenic, and some other substances, in a divided {chloride of ammonium) weighed. Each grain • state. When iron-filings are heated in a strong of the chloride thus found, represents *31804 | solution of caustic potassa to about 266° Fahr., gr. of pure AMMONIA; 53*5 parts of the/orwcr [ both hydrogen and ammonia are evolved. Ijeing equivalent to 17 of the latter. If the ' (Reisch.) If, whilst iron or zinc is undergoing article for examination be a solid substance (as j solution in sulphuric acid, nitric acid be added, a salt), it may be dissolved in water, or in dilute much ammonia is formed, and remains in the acid, before being put into the retort. liquid. (Nesbit.) When nitrous oxide or bin- In nice experiments, in the laboratory, am- oxide of nitrogen and an excess of hydrogen are monia is usually weighed either as chloride of < passed over heated platinum-black, spongy pla- ammonium (see above), or as ammonio-bichlo- j tinum, or any other substance capable of ride of platinum (NH4CI, PtCb);^ every gr. of | exerting catalytic action, torrents of ammonia the latter representing *076l'4 gr. of pure} are generated.'' Other instances, equally varied and interesting, might be added, if our space permitted; and it is highly probable that a vast number of cases in w*hich ammonia is similarly formed remain yet to be discovered. The study of the constitution of ammonia, and of its compounds, has long formed an interesting branch of research among scientific chemists. Authorities are divided in ojiinion as to the peculiar manner in which the ele- ments of these bodies are grouped or arranged. Is ammonia a simple and direct compound of nitrogen and hydrogen, as shown by its ulti- mate analysis, and as such in its entirety, 4 Tlie oxides of nitrogen need not l)e pure for this pur- pose ; and even the impure carbides of hydrogen produced by combustion, may be employed, provided a sufticient quantity of hydrogen be present. On these data are based Messrs.' Crane and Jullien’s patent, noticed under Car- AMMONIA. Sometimes, though rarely, the quantity of ammonia is determined from the volume of nitrogen eliminated from it, of wdiich 14 gr. represent 17 gr. of ammonia. Phys. eff., 4*c. Inhaled, undiluted with air, it is an irritant poison, producing spasms of the glottis, convulsions, and death; even when diluted, it acts as a powerful acrid, and local irritant; applied to the skin it canses vesica- tion. The use of the pungent odour of com- mon ‘ smelling salts,’ in syncope, headache, ^'c., is well known. Largely diluted with air, it has been recently highly extolled in chronic hoarseness, asthma, Sfc.; and as an antidote to 1 The addition of a few drops of water facilitates tlie reaction. 2 See Alkalimetry and Ammonimetrt.