806 JESUIT’S BARK—JEWELRY. on cooling; strain and flavour. Very nutri- tious j recoininended in irritation of the mucous membranes and phthisis. Cor'sican Moss Jelly. Syn. Gelatina hel- MiNTHOCOETi, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) Corsican moss {Gracilaria Helminthocort.on), 1 oz.\ water, q. s.; boil for 1 hour, and strain 8fl. oz.; to this add of isinglass (previously soaked in a little water, 1 dr.; refined sugar, 2 oz.; white wine, a wine-glassful. Vermifuge. See Decoction. Fruit Jelly. Under this head we include those jellies made from the juices of fruits. Prep. The strained juice mixed with g to ^ its weight of refined sugar, until it ‘jellies’ on cooling, observing to carefully remove the scum as it rises. Ti he process should be con- ducted by a gentle heat, and it is preferable not to add the sugar until the juice is some- what concentrated, as by lengthened boiling the quality of the sugar is injured. Obs. Jellies are sold in pots or glasses, like JAMS. Both jams and fruit jellies are refrige- rant and laxative; they are, however, mostly em- ployed as relishes, especially during fevers and convalescences. The principal fruit jellies are : —Apple, barbeeey, cheeey (from either Cor- nelian or Kentish cherries), CUEEANT {black, white, and red), eldeebeeey, goosebeeey, PLUM, QUINCE, easpbeeey. See Lemon and Oeange Jelly. Gra"vy Jelly. By evaporating meat gravies. Harts'horn Jelly. Syn. Gelatina coenu CEEVI, 1j. Prep. (P. Cod.) Hartshorn shav- ings, 8 oz.; wash it in water, then boil in clean water, 3 pints, till reduced to one half; strain, press, add of sugar, 4 oz., the juice of one lemon, and the white of an egg beaten up with a little cold water ; mix well, clarify by heat, evaporate till it jellies on cooling, then add Che peel of the lemon, and set it in a cool place. It may be favoured with wine, spices, &c. Very nutritious. Iceland Moss Jelly. Syn. Gelatina li- CHENIS, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) Iceland moss, 2 oz.; soak for 1 or 2 days in cold water, then boil for 1 hour in water, q s. to yield a strong solution; strain, decant the clear after repose, apply heat, aud dissolve therein of isinglass, 1 dr.; evaporate the whole to a proper con- sistence, put it into pots, and set them in a cool place. Nutritious. Recommended in phthisis. The jelly of Iceland moss and cin- chona (GELATINA LICHENIS CUM CINCHONA— P. Cod ) is made by adding to the above, syrup of cinchona, 6 fl. oz. I"rish Moss Jelly. Syn. Gelatina chon- DEi, L. Prep. From Irish or carrageen moss. See Decoction. Uslnglass Jelly. Syn. Confectionees’ jelly ; Gelatina ichthyocoll^e, L. Prep. From isinglass dissolved in irater by boiling, and evaporated till it ‘jellies’ on cooling, adding flavouring, as desired. oz. of good isinglass makes fully a pint of very strong jelly. See Blancmange, Isinglass, Caltes’-feet Jelly, &c. Lem'on Jell)'. From isinglass, 2 oz.; water, 1 quart; boil, add of sugar, 1 lb., clarify, and wlien nearly cold, add the juice of 5 lemom, and the grated yellow rinds of 2, oranges and of 2 lemons; mix well, strain ofi* the peel, and put it into glasses. No'yeaii Jelly. As punch jelly, but strongly flavoured with bitter almonds. Cr'ange Jelly. From orange juice, 1 pint; let it stand over the grated yellow rind of 3 or 4 of the oranges for a few hours, then strain, and add, of loaf sugar, J lb., or more; isinglass, 2 oz., dissolved in water, 1 pint; mix, and put it into glasses before it cools. Punch Jelly. From isinglass, 2 oz.; sugar. If lb.; water, 1 pint; dissolve, add of lemon juice, ^ pint; the peels of 2 lemons and of 2 oranges; rum and brandy, of each, ^ pint; keep it in a covered vessel until cold, then liquefy it by a very gentle heat, strain, and pour it into moulds. A pleasant and decep- tive way of swallowing alcohol. Rice Jelly. Syn. Ceeme de eiz. From rice boiled in water, sweetened, and fla- voured. Sa'go Jelly. Prep. Soak sago in cold water for 1 hour, strain, and boil in fresh soft water until it becomes transparent; then add wine, sugar, clear broth, milk, or spices, to flavour. 1 oz. of sago makes a pint of good jelly. Tapio'ca Jelly. As the last, but using tapioca in lieu of sago. JES'UIT’S BARK. See Cinchona. JESUIT’S DROPS. See Deops and Tinc- TUEE. JESUIT’S POW'DER. Powdered cinchona- bark. JET. A variety of mineral bituminous carbon, very hard, and susceptible of a fine polish. JEW'ELS. See Diamond, Emeeald, Gems, &c. JEW'ELRY. The gold in articles of jew- elry, whether solid or plated, which are not intended to be exposed to very rough usage, is generally ‘ coloured,' as it is called in the trade. This is done as follows :— 1. (Red gold coloue.) The article, after being coated with the amalgam, is gently heated, and, whilst hot, is covered with gilder’s wax ; it is then ‘ flamed ’ over a wood fire and strongly heated, during which time it is kept in a state of continual motion, to equalise the action of the fire on the surface. When all the composition has burned away, the piece is plunged into water, cleaned with scratch- brush ’ and vinegar, and then washed and bur- nished. To bring up the beauty of the colour, the piece is sometimes washed with a strong solution of verdigtis in vinegar, next gently heated, plunged whilst hot into water, and then washed, first in vinegar, or water soured with nitric acid, and then in pure water; it is, lastly, burnished and again washed and dried.