19 ACETIC ACID. !l • Acetic acid (Ph. L.) applied by means of a I piece of rag tied to the end of a small stick, is a nearly certain cure for eingworm and 'l SCALDHEAD—One or two applications generally effecting a cure, and the severe smarting it ■ causes is only of short duration; as a caustic, it removes warts and corns ; a piece of lint or blotting-paper wetted with it and applied to the skin, (evaporation being prevented,) forms a useful extemporaneous blister. It I was once employed as a disinfectant; but is I now only used as a fumigation, to remove the .! unpleasant smell of the sick room and crowded I assemblies. It is a popular refreshing scent in PAINTINGS, ASPHYXIA, and NERVOUS HEAD- I ACHE; and is a valuable rubefacient, astrin- gent, and local stimulant. It is also used as a I rubefacient and caustic in veterinary practice. I In the arts, the commercial acid (pure py- roligneous acid) is used by the engraver to etch !, his plates; as an ‘ antiseptic’ in pickling and [preserving animal and vegetable substances ! used as food, and anatomical preparations ; in dyeing and calico printing, and in the manufac- I ture of medicated vinegar's and other pharma- I ceutical preparations. I In the ditute state, its properties and appli- cations are similar to those of ordinary vinegar, I and are noticed under that head. 1 Poisoning from acetic acid is rare. When j concentrated, it is capable, by its corrosive and I solvent action, of perforating the coats of the i stomach and digestive canal; and it colours I the mucus of these organs by the chemical j action it exerts upon the blood. Vinegar in an I excessive quantity acts in a similar way; but j in a slighter degree. The treatment and an- i tidotes are similar to those directed in cases of I poisoning by the other acids. Duty, Excise, 8fc. See Vinegar. Gen. Commentary. Acetic acid, on the large scale, is principally prepared from ‘ acetate of soda,’ which yields by a comparatively inex- i pensive, and not a difficult operation, an acid I sufficiently strong and pare for commercial i purposes, without the necessity of rectification. In this process shallow vessels of wood, or of copper formed without rivets or solder (except 1 ‘ silver-solder’) in those parts exposed to the ^ action of the acid, are generally employed for i the purpose of the distillation. A coil of drawn copper pipe, heated by steam having a pressure of 30 to 40 Ih. to the inch, traverses the bottom of the apparatus, to impart the neces- sary heat. Tlie refrigeratory consists of well- cooled earthenware, Berlin ware, or glass vessels; and the adopter pipe is also of the same materials. Another common form which is even still more convenient, is a stout copper still, furnished with a cast-iron jacket to hold high pressure steam; the usual refrigeratory being employed. In a few instances, the space ' between the still and jacket is filled with sand, oil, tallow, or fusible metal; in which case the ! apparatus is set in brickwork, and heated by I a naked fire. Stills of earthenwaVe are also frequently employed; and even worms and condensers of silver, or silvered copper, are sometimes used, and with advantage. With a leaden worm, the product is always contami- nated with a little of that metal; the efforts of the manufacturer to the contrary, by the ex- clusion of air, and by rejecting the first and last portions of the distillate, only lessening and not preventing this evil. A lute (if any) composed of ‘ linseed meal’ and ‘water,’ with or without a little powdered ‘ plaster of paris,’ may be em- ployed; butflatbandsandshort tubes c^Lwell-sea- soned ‘ vulcanised Indian rubber,’ are infinitely more convenient and efficacious. The ingredi- ents being xilaced in the still, and well but hastily stirred together with a wooden spatula, the head is luted on, and the distillation soon after- wards commenced. The chief care now should be to increase the heat ‘ gradually,’ as the dis- tillation proceeds; and, when a steam-heat is not used, to carefully avoid over-firing, par- ticularly towards the close of the operation. A little acetic ether is added by some manu- facturers. In this way 4 lb. of acid of the sp. gr. 1'050, is obtained for every 3 lb. of ‘ acetate of soda’ employed. Should rectification be had recourse to, the addition of about 2 or 3^ of bichromate of potassa, per- oxide of manganese, or red oxide of lead, will remove empyreuma, if present. The first of these substances is the most effective; the power of the others being in the order in which they are printed. In distilling the weaker acids, and vinegars, it is found useful to add from 25 to 30^ of chloride of sodium, which, by raising the boiling point of the liquid, allows the acid the more freely to pass over (Stein); but this addition proves disadvan- tageous when any sulphuric acid is present, in which case sulphate of soda may be employed instead. If this addition be not made, the whole of the acid cannot be obtained without distillation to dryness, and the generation of empyreuma. On the small scale, glass retorts ar^ usually directed to be used, but glass alembics or flasks are more convenient and safe, as already noticed. In the preparation of the pure acid, care should be taken that the acetate of soda does not contain common salt, as the carbonate of soda prepared by calcination, and frequently used to form the acetate, is generally con- taminated with it, and yields up its hydro- chloric acid or chlorine during the process of distillation, thus vitiating the product. In all the methods given, the product becomes more concentrated in proportion to the dryness of the acetate and the strength of the oil of vitriol or muriatic acid employed. By using the one dry, and the other concentrated, glacial acid may always be collecting separately the last two-fifths that come over, and sub- mitting this to refrigeration. According to Melsens, pure glacial acetic ACID is most advantageously obtained by dis- tilling pure and dry acetate of potash with an I