HYDEOGEN. 744 I analogue, binoxide of barium, have been of great service as instruments of research. The gaged in great abundance, and may he col- gas, in a state of absolute purity, is disen- and wlien condiicted tbrougli a red-hot tube, cr the liame is thrown on a cold surface, as a porcelain plate, metallic antimony is deposited. See Arsexious Acid. Arsen^iuretted Hydrogen. Syji. Aesejtetted HYDROGEN, Hydride oe arsenic, Arsena- AIINE; HyDROGENIDH ARSENIDRATUM, L. A gaseous compound of arsenic and hydrogen. Prep. Arsenide of zinc (made by fusing to- gether equal weights of zinc and arsenic) is acted upon by strong hydrochloric acid or by sulphuric acid diluted with three parts of ivater. Ohs. This gas is produced whenever arse- nious or arsenic acid, or any of their salts, is in presence of nascent hydrogen. The proper- ties of arsenetted hydrogen are fully de- scribed in the tests for arsenious acid.^ Car'huretted Hydrogen. Syn. Carbonetted HYDROGEN. This term is specially applied to two of the numerous compounds of carbon and hydrogen (carbides oe hydrogen, hy- drocarbons) :— 1. Light Carburetted Hydrogen. Syn. Marsh GAS, Fire-damp, Gas oe the acetates. This is often abundantly disengaged in coal mines, and its combustion occasions those fear- ful explosions which are so destructive to human life. The mud at the bottom of stagnant pools, on being stirred, suffers bubbles of gas to escape, which, when collected and examined, are found to be a mixture of light carhu- retted hydrogen and carbonic acid. The latter is easily removed by passing the gas through a solution of caustic potassa or milk of lime. Prep. (Dumas.) A mixture of acetate of soda tcryst.) and hydrate of potassa (dry), of each, 2 parts, and quicklime (in powder), 3 parts, is strongly heated in a bask or retort. The lected over water. Prop. Colourless; neutral; nearly inodor- ous; burns with a yellow fiame, producing pure water and carbonic acid; explodes when kindled in contact with air or oxygen; and when mixed with atmospheric air, may be re- spired for some time without apparent injury. 2. Heavy Carburetted Hydrogen. See Olefiant Gas. Obs. Coal gas, oil gas, and resin gas. consist, for the most part, of mixtures of these two gaseous hydrocarbons in uncertain pro- portions, obtained respectively from coal, oil, and resin, by the action of h.eat, and used for the purposes of illumination. See Gas. Oxides of Hydrogen. There are two well- defined compounds of hydrogen and oxygen:— 1. Protoxide of Hydrogen. IVater (which see). 2. Peroxide of Hydrogen. Syn. Binoxide OE HYDROGEN, DeUTOXIDE OE H., OXYGE- NATED WATER; HYDROGENII BINOXYDUM, L. This singular fluid was discovered by M. ThOiard, in 1818. ^ See especially Marsh’s test, jmge 216. Prep. (Odling.) A known quantity of pure hydrochloric acid, diluted with 8 or 10 times its volume of distilled water, is placed in a glass beaker surrounded with ice or a freez- ing mixture. A quantity of binoxide of barium rather less than sufficient to neutralize the acid is then ground to a fine paste with dis- tilled water, and added gradually to the acid, in which it should dissolve without efferves- cence. Diluted sulphuric acid is next added cautiously, to precipitate the barium, and re- produce hydrochloric acid to act upon a fresh quantity of peroxide. The liquid having been filtered from the insoluble sulphate of baryta, a second proportion of binoxide of barium paste is added gradually, as before. The treatment with sulphuric acid, filtration and addition of binoxide, is repeated 6 or 7 times. Sulphate of silver is then very carefully added, so as ex- actly to precipitate in the form of chloride of silver the whole of the chlorine. After filtra- tion, pure baryta, first as a paste and then in solution, is cautiously added, to precipitate ex- actly the sulphuric acid set free from the sul- phate of silver. Filtration is again resorted to, and the clear liquid (aqueous solution of peroxide of hydrogen) is placed in a dish over oil of vitriol in vacuo, in order that the water mixed with it may evaporate. Prop., Sfc. A colourless, transparent, some- what syrupy liquid, of sp. gr. 1'452. It has a metallic taste, and corrodes the skin. It is easily resolved into oxygen and water. It mixes freely with water, and becomes more permanent by the dilution. It bleaches or- ganic substances, and acts as a powerful oxid- ating agent. Under certain circumstances, however, it plays the part of a reducing agent. To the chemist, peroxide of hydrogen and its only use to which binoxide of hydrogen has been applied in the arts, is to restore the black- ened lights of paintings, which have become darkened by sulphuretted hydrogen. Fhosphuret'ted Hydrogen. Syn. Phoseho- RETTED HYDROGEN, PHOSPHIDE OE HYDRO- GEN, Phosphamine ; Hydrogenium PHOS- PHORATHM, L. A compound of hydrogen and phosphorus discovered by Gengembre in 1783. Prep. 1. Hydrated phosphorous acid is gently heated in a. small retort, and the gas collected over water in the pneumatic trough. The first portions of gas evolved are pure, hut the latter portions contain a considerable quantity of free hydrogen. 2. From phosphorus (in small lumps) boiled in a solution of caustic potassa or milk of lime, contained in a small retort, as before. W. B. Tegetmeier gives the following practical directions :—“ Take a very small thin retort, capable of holding not more than 1 oz. or 1^ oz. of water; place in this 3 or 4 fragments of the sticks of fused caustic potassa, each being about ^ inch in length; add as much water as will barely cover them, and then drop in a