EXPAl^SION. 603 progression, and require the least exertion. ' Next conies the sitting posture; from this the I child gradually advances to the erect one; then i to walk by slight assistance; and lastly, to ! walk safely alone. All this should come na- turally, and never he promoted, further than : by laying the infant on the carpet or floor, for the full exercise of its little strength. As soon I as a healthy child is able to walk instead of I crawl, its own disposition induces it to do so. 1 The faculty of imitation, the spirit of enter- I prise, and the pride of doing what others do, present even in infancy, is rather apt to lead 1 the infant to over-exertion than the contrary, j The practice of constantly ‘ dolling’ children I in the arms is most prejudicial to the early ' development of their feeble powers. In CHILDHOOD the exercise should be regu- 1 lated according to the constitution and age of i the parties; avoiding inactivity on the one hand, and excessive exercise on the other. The ' out-door plays and pastimes of boys will ; generally be found sufficient, and in some cases 1 will even require to be curbed, to prevent I fatigue and the overtasking of the young ! frame. With giels, it is frequently difficult to find sufficient exercise without trespassing on the prejudices of the ignorant, or the rou- tine of their daily education. With them, walking, and some healthy amusement, as i shipping, hooping, or the like, should be indulged j in for some hours daily. When this is impos- I sible or inconvenient, they may be habituated I to the practice of the more simple and cleanly portion of the domestic duties. In the per- I formance of the latter, the health will be pro- i moted, whilst the care and attention which is I always due by a female to herself and others, j at all periods of her life, will become an easy ; acquisition, and assist the cultivation of the f* best feelings of her nature. I In YOUTH exercise matures and promotes ! the development of the frame; and in mak- i HOOD it is equally necessary, as already no- I ticed, to keep it in healthy action. In age it I will be found to assist the vital functions, and j put off decay. In fact, to all—young, old, j rich and pooi', physical exeecise is essential i to the permanent enjoyment of health. In a medical point of view, “ exercise, em- I ployed moderately, has a tonic and stimulating I influence on the system, and is calculated to I prove beneficial in a great variety of com- [ plaints. Used immoderately, it exhausts both 1 the mental and bodily powers, and produces j great debility.” (Pereira.) Well-directed ex- ! ercise favours the preservation of the general I health, by calling into direct action the ma- jority of the organs of the body; and it also I acts powerfully on the skin, by stimulating its functions, increasing its temperature, awaken- I ing its tone, and subjecting it to a current of I atmosphere favorable to its respiratory offices, i But to be beneficial in the highest degree, ex- ' crcise must be accompanied by feelings of pre- ■ sent interest and enjoyment. The mind must direct and go with it; to ensure its fuU bene- fits the ‘‘ soul must be present.” “ What is it that makes the difference between the exercise of youth and that of the felon on the tread- wheel ; between the pedestrian in the Isle of Wight or Switzerland, and the pedestrian from Chelsea to the Bank ; between the light and quick footstep wending to Greenwich Park, and the dull tread of the nursery-maid at home ? Is it not mind ? Is it not the young and buoyant joy of the school-boy that inspirits his laugh and his leap ? while, silent and morose, humiliated, not convinced, the felon suffers his monotonous existence, moving, it is true, but not in exercise. Is it not the novelty or the beauty of the scene, the plea- sant Aveather, or the immunity from customary labour, that gives spirit to the pedestrian’s tour, as compared with the dull, desultory re- petition of the same sights, same persons, same things, and same path to and from busi- ness ? Is it not the prospect of enjoyment, of gaiety, or pleasure, that makes the difference between the elastic step of the maiden enfran- chised from present duties, and the same per- son in the pursuit of her necessity-impelled and ordinary offices ? We need not ask which is most calculated to be beneficial to health; which to arouse the dormant functions of the skin; to promote the removal of irritating elements from the blood; to increase the vigour of the frame, purify the complexion, and enrich the beaming tints of beauty. In MIND lies the great secret of beneficial exercise, and without it exercise is a misnomer, and a fraud upon the constitution.” (Erasmus Wilson.) “ During convalescence, properly regulated exertion is highly serviceable; but it should never be carried so far as to produce exhaus- tion, and should be pursued for some time in doors, before it be attempted in the open air; the latter, at first, should always take place in a carriage, that can be opened or closed at will; the patient may then attempt short walks in the open air; but, in all cases, it is of importance that he is not unduly fatigued, as, otherwise, injury instead of benefit will be the result. One of the most serious errors, com- mitted with regard to exertion, is that of per- mitting a convalescent to sit up too frequently, or for too long a time, under the mistaken no- tion of giving him strength. A patient should never be allowed to sit up longer than is agree- able to his feelings, and never so long as to pro- duce a sense of fatigue.’^ (Dr. R. E. Griffith.) EXPAN'SION. AU substances, solid, liquid, and gaseous, when chemical change does not take place, expand by heat, and contract by cold. In some of them this property occurs in a greater degree than in others, but is con- stant for the same substance under the same circumstances. The chemist avails himself of this property in the construction of his ther- mometer; the wheelwright in fixing on the tire of bis wheels; the engineer, iu restoring