ANISIC ACID—ANNOTTA. 175 ANISIC ACID (-is'-)- Syn. Acidum Anis'- lOUM, L. Formed by acting on the solid crystalline volatile oil (‘stearoptene’) of ani- seed with nitric acid. It is scarcely soluble in cold water; freely soluble in alcohol and ether; and in its general properties closely resembles salicylic acid. Its salts are called an'isates. See Oil op Aniseed. ANIS'IC AL'COHOL. a crystalline fusible body, formed along with anisate op potassa, when hydride of anisyle is treated with an alcoholic solution of caustic potassa. When purified by distillation it boils at 482° Fahr. See Alcohol (in Chemistry), Anisyle, &c. ANI'SIDINE (-se-dm). Syn. Anisid'ia (Sn-e-), Anisidi'na, L. An organic base pro- duced by the action of sulphuretted hydrogen, basic protacetate of iron, and some other re- ducing agents, on nitranisole, just as ‘ aniline ’ is from nitrobenzole. See Aniline. ANISCyiNE (-o'-m). A white, solid, neutral substance, isomeric with the stearoptene of aniseed oil, obtained by acting on that sub- stance with sulphuric acid. AN'ISOLE (-ole). A species of oxygenated oil, boiling at 302° Fahr., formed by heating anisic acid with lime or baryta, in excess. ANI'SUM. [Ph. L. E. & D.; L.] Ani- seed. AN'ISYLE (-e-sil). Syn. An'isyl. The hypothetical radical of the compounds obtained from the essential oil of aniseed. Hy'druret of Anisyle. Syn. Hy'deide op ANISYLE. One of the products obtained by acting on anise-stearoptene with nitric acid. It is a yellowish oily hquid, has the odour of new hay, is heavier than water; and boils at 400° Fahr.; strong hot caustic alkaline solu- tions decompose it; fused hydrate of potassa converts it instantly into anisic acid and hy- drogen gas; air and oxidising agents do the same less rapidly; ammonia combines with it to form a crystalline compound analogous to ‘ hydrobenzamide.’ AN^KLE. See Joints, Dislocations, &c. ANNEALING. Syn. NEALiNGf§; Le ee- cuiT, Fr.; Das anlassen, Ger. The art of tempering by heat; appropriately, the pro- cess by which glass, porcelain, &c., are rendered less frangible, and metals w^hich have become brittle by fusion, or long-con- tinued hammering, again rendered tough and malleable. Glass vessels, and other articles of glass, are annealed by being placed in an oven or ajiartment near the furnaces at which they are formed, called the ‘ leer,^ where they are allowed to cool very slowly, the process being prolonged in proportion to their bulk. Steel, iron, and other metals are annealed by heating them and allowing them to cool slowly on the hearth of the furnace, or in any other suitable place, unexposed to the cold. Cast-iron is rendered tough and malleable, without * puddling,’ by embedding it in ground charcoal or haematite, and thus protected, keeping it exposed at a high temperature for several hours, after which the whole is allowed to cool very slowdy. Prince Rupert’s drop may be mentioned as an example of unannealed glass; and cdmmon cast-iron, of unannealed metals ; to which heads the reader is referred. AN'NELLIDS. Syn. AnelTdans ; Anel'ides (-e-dez), Anella'ta, AnelTd^, &c., L.;^ Annel'ida, Cuv. a class of the articula'ta of Cuvier, embracing ^ worms with red blood.’ It is divided into three orders—abeanchia'ta, doesibeanchia'ta, and thbic'itla; the first includes the leech and earthworm. They are so named from the cylindrical body being divided into little ring-like segments. ANNOT'TA. Syn. Anot'to, Annat'to, An- nat'ta ; Aenat'to, Aenot'to, &c. ; Oelea'- NA, Tee'eA O.*, &C., L. ; EOFCOL, ROCOH, Rorcou, Fr.; Oeieans, Ger. A colouring matter forming the outer pellicle of the seeds of the biar'a orella'na (Linn.), an exogenous evergreen tree, common in Cayenne, and some other parts of tropical America, and now ex- tensively cultivated in both the E. and W. Indies. It is usually obtained by macerating the crushed seeds or seed-pods in water, for several weeks, ultimately allowing the pulp to subside, which is then boiled in coppers to a stiff paste, and dried in the shade. Some- times a little oil is added in making it up into cakes or lumps. A better method is that proposed by Leblond, in which the crushed seeds are simply exhausted by wash- ing them in water (—? alkalised), from which the colouring matter is then precipitated by means of vinegar or lemon-juice; the precipi- tate being subsequently collected, and either ‘ boiled up ’ in the ordinary manner, or drained in bags, and dried, as is practised with indigo. Annotta so prepared is said to be four times as valuable as made by the old process. Prop. Good annotta is of a flame colour; brighter in the middle than on the outside; feels soft and smooth to the touch; has a good consistence, and a strongly characteristic, but not a putrid smell. It is scarcely soluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol, ether, oils, and fats, to each of which it imparts a beau- tiful orange colom, and in alkaline solutions, which darken it; acids precipitate it of an orange red hue; strong sulphuric acid turns it blue. Its most important property is the affinity of its colouring matter for the fibres of silk, wool, and cotton. Pur. Annotta is very frequently adulterated ; indeed, nearly always so. The adulterants are generally meal, flour, or farina, and often chalk or gypsum, wuth some pearlash and oil, or even soap, to give it ‘ unctuosity,’ turmeric, Venetian red, red ochre, or even orange lead, to give it ‘ colour,’ and common salt and, some- times, even sulphate of copper, to prevent ‘ de- 1 “Generally, but improperly, uTitten anneliclang or an?ielides” (Owb); and so of tlie rest.