201 APPETITE. seated in the stomach, and their recurrence at proper intervals is a necessary consequence of vital action, and is essential to the existence of the body in a state of vigour and health. Any alteration from their normal condition j ! indicates diseased action of the stomach, or of j ' the nervous system or circulation; or it may j result from vicious habits. A healthy appetite I for food is usually a most certain indication I that nature requires a supply; but in the in- ' I diligence of this appetite certain regulations L should be observed, and a boundary should be put to mere animal gratification. By slowly eating and thoroughly masticating the food, ■ the stomach becomes gradually and equally , distended, and the individual feels himself satisfied only after he has taken a quantity sufficient for the nourishment of his body; but, on the contrary, if the food be swallowed rapidly, and without proper mastication, it presses heavily and roughly against the sides of the stomach, and induces a sensation of fulness before a sufficient meal has been made. The consequences are, that hunger soon re- turns, and the party must either have recourse to food between the usual time of meals, or suffer the consequences of imperfect nutrition. ’ Kxercise and labour, within certain limits, promote the healthy functions of the stomach and bowels, through the action of the muscles of the abdomen increasing the peristaltic mo- tion of these viscera. An inordinate appetite I in persons leading a sedentary life, is generally indicative of the food passing off imperfectly digested, or of the coats of the stomach being relaxed, or even diseased. More food is required in winter than in ‘summer,’ in consequence of the greater radiation of the heat of the body; I and hence the increased appetite which isusually I an accompaniment of that season. In persons I who lead a more sedentary life in winter than in summer, either no change of this kind occurs, or the reverse is the case; the want of exercise producing a diminution of appetite corresponding to the increase of it that would otherwise result from the seasonal change of atmospheric temperature, or even greater. Deviations of the appetite from the healthy L standard, or the normal condition, constitute I DEFECTIA'E Or DISEASED APPETITE. ' Deficiency or loss of appetite (an'oeexy; AXOREx'iA, L.) generally arises from disordered ^ st(unach; l3ut is also frequently symptomatic I of other affections, particularly dyspepsia, \ biliousness, feverishness, and organic diseases I of the lungs, stomach, and prima; vias. It is a common consequence of sedentary life, and I of extreme mental anxiety, excitement, or ex- haustion. The treatment will necessarily vary t with the cause. In simple spontaneous cases, the appetite may generally be improved by f out-door exercise, and the occasional use of ■ mild aperients, especially salines and aloetics. ^^'hen the affection arises from the stomach being loaded with ‘bile and crudities,’ an emetic in the evening, followed by a stomachic ( purgative the next morning, with an occa- sional aperient afterwards, will seldom fail to effect a cure. With ‘ heavy drinkers,’ a gra- dual reduction of the quantity of the strong liquors usually consumed, is generally followed by a restoration of the appetite and digestive powers. The change thus gradually effected in the course of 8 or 10 days is often almost ‘magical.’ The excessive use of liquors—es- pecially of spirits, wine, or beer, or even of warm weak ones, as tea, coffee, soup, &c.— is always prejudicial. Hence drunkards are particularly subject to defective appetite; and ‘ teetotallers’ and ‘ water-.drinkers’ to a ‘hearti- ness’ often almost approaching voracity. See Biliousness, Dyspepsia, &c. Depraved appetite (pi'ca, L.) or a desire for unnatural food, as chalk, cinders, dirt, soap, tallow, &c., when an idiopathic affection or depending on vicious tastes or habits, (as is often the case in childhood,) may be treated by admixing very small doses of tartar-emetic or ipecacuanha with the objectionable food or articles. When symptomatic of pregnancy, a plentiful and nutritious diet, including the ‘ red meats,’ with a little good malt-liquor or wine, may be adopted with advantage. When symptomatic of chlorosis, to this diet may be added, the use of chalybeate tonics, and sea or tepid bathing; when of dyspepsia, a light diet, bitter tonics, free exercise, fresh air, and cold bathing, will generally effect a cure. Insatiable appetite (canine appetite, vo- racity; eulim'ia, L.) is generally symp- tomatic of pregnancy, or w’orms, or diseases of the stomach or the viscera immediately con- nected with it; but sometimes exists as a separate disease, and is even said to be occa- sionally hereditary. "When it occurs in child- hood, worms may be suspected, and vermifuges administered. In adults, a common cause is imperfect digestion, arising from stomach com- plaints or gluttony, when the languor and gnawing pains of disease are mistaken for hunger. In this case, the diet should be regu- lated and the bowels kept gently relaxed with mild aperients, and tonics (as bark and steel), I or bitters (as orange-peel and gentian), may j be administered. When pregnancy or vicious I habits are the cause, the treatment indicated under depraved appetite may be adopted. When the affection is occasioned by acidity in the stomach, an emetic, followed by the mode- rate use of absorbents or antacids, will gene- rally effect a cure. In those cases depending i on a highly increased power of the stomach in I effecting rapid and complete digestion, its contractile force and morbid activity may be I often allayed by the copious use of salad oil, fat meat, &c., by the cautious use of opiates, or by the use, or freer use, of tobacco (either smoked or chewed, or both). A cathartic daily, with a dose of blue-pill, or mercurial powder, every second or third day, is also often advantageous. 25 or 30 drops of liquor of potassa, in broth, twice or thrice daily, has