325 BLACKBERRY—BLACKING. j ! It has a good colour, a full body, and dries j hard and quickly with oil. BLACK'BERRY. The popular name of ru'bus frucfico’sus (Linn.) or the common ‘ bramble.’ Fruit (black'beeries ; muees de eonce, Fr.), antiscorbutic and wholesome, but in excess apt to sicken; twiffs, used in dyeing black; root 1 astringent, formerly used in hooping-cough. American Blackberry. The ru'bus villo'sus I (Ait.). Foot, astringent and tonic; officinal in I the Ph. U. S. BLACKING. Sj/n. Cieage (des bottes), j Noie (pour les souliers), Fr.; Schwaeze, ! Schuhschwaeze, Ger. An article too well I known to require description. Hist,, Sfc. Blacking, and other polishes for leather, were undoubtedly in common use \ among the ancients; but the compound to . which we now more particularly apply the 1 name is of comparatively modern invention. I The latter appears to have been first intro- ' duced into England from Paris, during the 1 reign of Chas. II., but was not in common j use among the masses of our population much I before the middle of the 18th century, j The general and still increasing use of * blacking’ as a polish for boots and shoes by ' all classes of the inhabitants of civilised coun- j tries, has given an extent and importance to its manufacture which a stranger to the sub- ject would scarcely be led to suspect. The princely establishments of some of the firms i who compound this sable article, cannot fail I to have arrested the attention of the pas- j sen ger through the streets of this great metro- I polis; whilst the enormous fortune acquired i by one of their late members, and, for the I most part, bequeathed by him for purposes of j charity and philanthropy, has invested both ] the donor and his craft with an interest and !■ notoriety which they did not previously pos- sess. At the present time, the consumption of ; blacking is greater than at any former period; i and of this, as of many other articles, England ! is the principal manufactory for the world, ! alike distinguished for the extent of her trade and the excellent quality of this product of her industry. In truth, England excels all I other nations in the manufacture of common shoe-blacking ; and, perhaps, in no other coun- try is an equal attention paid to the cleanli- ness and appearance of the external clothing , of the feet. Prep. I. Liquid Blackinq :— 1. Take of bone-black^, 16 parts; treacle, 12 parts; oil of vitriol, 3 parts; sperm-oil^, 2 parts; gum-arabic, 1 part; strong vinegar, or sour beer, 48 to 50 parts^; (all by weight;) I place the ‘ bone-black’ in a capacious wooden, ^ Tliat is, commercial ivory-hlacJc. ^ Sperm-oil is commonly regai’ded as the best for black- ing ; but pale seal-oil is thought by some to be quite as good. The cod-liver oil of the curriers if clear, is less ex- pensive, and probably better than either of them. Common olive-oil, and refined rape-oil, are, however, those most generally used by the blacking-makers. 3 That is, 3 to 3a- times the weight of the ivorg-black. stone-ware, or enamelled-iron vessel,'^ add the ‘ oil,’ and rub them well together; next gra- dually add the ‘treacle,’ and actively and patiently grind or rub the mass, after each addition, until the ‘oil’ is perfectly ‘killed,’ and finally for some time afterwards, to ensure complete admixture; then cautiously dilute the ‘vitriol’ with about three times its bulk of water, and add it, in separate portions, to the ‘ former mixture,’ observing to stir the whole together, as rapidly as possible, on each addi- tion of the ‘ acid,’ and for some minutes after the whole is added, so as to render the mass thoroughly smooth and homogeneous; let it stand, covered over, for two or three days, or longer, stirring it, in the mean time, for 15 or 20 minutes daily; lastly, having dissolved the ‘gum’ in the ‘vinegar,’ add the ‘solution’ gradually to the rest, and stir the whole toge- ther briskly for some time, and again daily for 3 or 4 days. It may be further diluted, at will, with a little more vinegar or beer, or with water; but unnecessary or excessive dilution should be avoided, as the ‘richness’ and ‘ quality’ of the blacking become proportion- ately reduced. If all the ingredients {except the vitriol) be made hot before admixture, the ‘shining quality’ of the product will be greatly improved, and the process may be shortened.^ 2. Ivory-black, 16 parts; treacle, 8 parts; oil of vitriol, 4 parts; (diluted with) water, 2 parts; oil, 2 parts; gum-arabic, 1 part; soft water (for the final dilution, instead of ‘vinegar’), 64 parts; mixed, &c., as before. Excellent. 3. As the last; but taking only 6 parts of treacle, 1 part of oil, and omitting the ‘ gum- arabic.’ Good. A commoner article of liquid blacking does not sell. 4. (Bryant and James’s India-eubbee Liquid BUACKiNa.—Patent dated 1836.) Take of India-rubber (in small pieces), 18 oz.; hot rape-oil, 9 lb. (say 1 gal.)-, dissolve; to the solution add of ivory-black (in very fine pow- der), 60 lb.; treacle, 45 lb.', mix thoroughly; further add of gum-arabic, 1 lb., dissolved in vinegar (No. 24), 20 gal.; reduce the whole to a perfect state of smoothness and admixture by trituration in a paint-mill; throw the com- pound into a wooden vessel, and add, very gradually, of sulphuric acid, 12 lb.; continue the stirring for ^ an hour, repeating it daily for 14 days; then add of gum-arabic (in fine powder), 3 Ib.^-, again mix well, and repeat the stirring for ^ an hour daily for 14 days longer, when the liquid blacking will be ready for use, or for bottling. The quality is very ex- * Metallic vessels must be avoided. s By taking the ‘ parts’ ordered in tliis and the other formulae as so many drs., oz., 5 lbs., lbs., 5 cwts., or cicts., the proportions of each ingredient for any quantity of blacking, from a | of a lb., or a 5 pint, up to 2 tons, or nearly 450 gal., will be at once seen; and so on of even larger quantities. See Concluding Remarks (infrit). ® This should be gently rubbed through a sieve, lield over the blacking by one person, whilst another stirs the mass assiduously with the spatula.