382 CALCIUM. readily in hydrochloric acid. Sulphuric acid, when added to concentrated solutions, gives an immediate white precipitate / if the solution is not concentrated, the precipitate may separate gradually, in minute crystals j and if it is very dilute, no precipitation will take place, because sulphate of lime is soluble in about 500 times its weight of water. With neutral solutions, even when very dilute, oxalate of ammonia gives a copious white precipitate^ soluble in most dilute acids. Bro'mide of Calcium (-mid). Syn. Cal'cii BEOMi'DrM, L. Prep. (Magendie.) To a so- lution of bromide of iron add hydrate of lime, in slight excess; filter, evaporate to dryness, redissolve in water, and again filter, and eva- porate. Chlo'Tide of Calcium (-id). Syn. Htdeo- chlo"kate of lime, Mij"eiate of l. ; Cal'cii chloeTdem (Ph. L. & D.), Cal'cis hydeo- chlo"eas ; Cal'cis me"eias (Ph. E.). Prep. 1. To hydrochloric acid, diluted with an equal weight of water, add powdered chalk or white marble (in small fragments), until effervescence entirely ceases, and the liquid no longer reddens blue litmus paper; filter, evaporate to one half, and set the liquid aside to crys- tallize; lastly, collect the crystals, dry them by pressure between the folds of bibulous paper, and preserve them in a stoppered bottle. The mother-liquor will yield more crystals by evaporation. 2. (Ph. L. 1836.) Hydrochloric acid and water, of each, 10 fi. oz.; chalk, 5 oz.; as the last, but evaporating to dryness, and fusing the residuum, instead of crystallizing. In the Ph. L. 1851 it is merely included in the list of materia medica. 3. (Ph. D.) Hydrochloric acid, 2^ pints; water, 6 pints; chalk, 2 lb.; as the Ph. L. 1836. 4. (Ph. E.) Commercial muriatic acid and water, of each, 1 pint; white marble, in frag- ments, 10 oz.; as No. 1. 5. It is obtained in solution as a residuum in making several preparations of ammonia, as the liquor and carbonate, and in making car- bonic acid by the action of hydrochloric acid on marble. The residuum is concentrated and set aside to crystallize, as in Prep. 1, or corporated to dryness. Prop., Uses, ^c. This salt crystallizes in colourless, striated, hexagonal prisms, termi- nated by very acute points. It is very soluble in alcohol and water, the latter even at 32° dissolving more than its own weight, and at 60° three or four times its weight of this salt. When heated, the crystals undergo watery fusion. When dissolved in water, they pro- duce great cold; and hence are frequently employed as an ingredient in FEEEZiNa Mix- TUEES. These crystals contain nearly half their weight of water. They are very deli- quescent, passing readily into the liquid state, and forming what used to be called oleum calcis, or oil of lime. The anhydrous chloride of Prep. 2 and 3 is hard and friable; slightly translucent; totally and readily soluble in water, and, like the crystallized salt, very deli- quescent. In the laboratory chloride of cal- cium, either fused or merely dried, is con- tinually used for drying gases and for absorb- ing the water from ethereal and oily liquids in organic analysis. The unfused is now generally preferred for this purpose, as it is more porous than the fused. The salt is also used in the rectification of alcohol, and to form a bath for heating stone-ware stills and other apparatus liable to be cracked on the sand bath. As a chemical reagent, it is employed chiefly in de- tecting certain organic acids. As a medicine, it has been given in some scrofulous and glandular diseases. See SoLUTioisrs. Flu'oride of Calcium. Syn. Hydeofle'- OEATE OF LIME. This occurs native as the mineral calledy?wor-sj»ar. It is found in beau- tiful crystals in the lead mines of Alston Moor and Derbyshire, and in the concretionary crys- talline masses known as Blue John or Derby- shire spar at Castleton. It may be prepared by the action of hydrofluoric acid upon lime, as directed under Eleoeide of Baeiem. I'odide of Calcium. Syn. Hydei'odate of LIME; Cal'cii iodi'dem, Calcis hydeio'das, L. Prep. 1. (Magendie.) From a solution of protiodide of iron and hydrate of lime, as di- rected under iodide of barium. 2. Dissolve lime or carbonate of lime in hy- driodic acid. Prop., Uses, ^c. It is a deliquescent salt, easily soluble in water, and has a bitterish taste. It has been used in scrofulous affections, internally, in doses ranging from g to 2 gr., thrice daily, and externally in ointments con- taining 2 dr. or less to the oz. Ox'ide of Calcium. See Lime. Phos'phuret of Calcium. Syn. Phosphe'eet OF LIME, PhOS'PHIDE OF CALCIEM; Cal'CII phospheee'tem, C. phosphi'dem, L. Prep. By passing the vapour of phosphorus over lime (in small fragments) heated to redness in a porcelain tube. A brownish substance, sup- posed to be a mere mechanical mixture of phosphuret of calcium and phosphate of lime. Thrown into water, it suffers instant decom- position, and phospheeetted hydeogen gas escapes. Sul'phurets of Calcium. Calcium forms with sulphur at least three different com- pounds :— 1. Protosul'phuret of Calcium. Syn. Sel'- PHEEET OF CALCIEM, Sel'PHIPE OF C., PeOTO- sel'pheeet of lime. Prep.—a. From sulphate j of lime, exposed at a high temperature to a stream of hydrogen gas.—b. From dried gypsum, 25 parts ; lamp black or finely powdered char- coal, 4 parts; calcined together at a strong heat in a covered crucible. 2. Bisul'phuret of Calcium. Syn. Bisel'phide OF Calciem. Prep. From sulphur and quick- lime, equal parts; water, s.; slake;the lime, add the sulphur, and boil until a solution