830 LEECHING—LEMONADE. place a thin shelf of stone or marble, pierced with small holes, on which put first some moss, or portions of marsh horse-tail {Equise- tum palustre), and on this a layer of pebbles to keep it down; then pour in water sufficiently high just to moisten the moss and pebbles, put in the leeches, and tie over the mouth of the trough with a cloth. Another plan con- sists in keeping the leeches in a glass tank, or aquarium, provided with a pebbly bottom and a few healthy aquatic plants. Propag. According to Dr. Wagner, an annual feast on living blood is necessary' to render leeches able to grow and propagate. These conditions can only be fulfilled by re- storing to the breeding cisterns those which have been already employed. All artificial me- thods of feeding them, by bladders or sponges of blood, have been found to fail. He recom- mends the employment of two tanks, with the bottom formed of loam, clay, or turf, sur- rounded by an inner border of a similar sub- stance, and an outer one of sand—the one for leeches fit for medical use—and the other for breeding, or for such leeches as have been applied. No leeches are to be taken from the breeding tank until a year has elapsed after their having been applied and fed with human blood; and their removal to the first tank should take place in September or October, as by this time the breeding season is over. By this plan all leeches that have been applied are to be carefully restored to the breeding tank, without making them disgorge the blood they have swallowed. LEECHTNG. This consists in the applica- tion of leeches to any vascular part of the body, for the purpose of withdrawing blood from it, and thus allaying local inflammation, distension of vessels, &c. Leeches are most conveniently applied by means of a common pill-pox or a wine-glass. The part should be previously washed perfectly clean, and if covered with hair should be closely shaved. Sometimes leeches are indisposed to bite; in such cases, allowing them to crawl over a piece of dry linen or cahco, rolling them in porter, moistening the part with a little milk or sweetened milk, or drawing a little blood by a slight puncture or scratch, will usually make them bite freely. To stop the bleeding from leech-bites, various plans are adopted, among which the application of nitrate of silver or creasote, or gentle pressure for some hours with the finger, are the most successful. Of late years a piece of matico leaf or soldier’s herb, applied in the same manner as a piece of lint, has been commonly adopted to stop the bleeding of leech-bites. LEEK. Syn. Poeeijm, L. The Allium porrum (Linn.). Its general properties are intermediate between those of the onion and garlic. The juice is said to be powerfully diuretic, and capable of dissolving phosphatic calculi. LEGU'MIN. Vegetable caseine. LEM'ON. Syn. Limo, L. The fruit of the Citrus limonum or lemon tree. The juice, peel, and essential oil, are officinal. See Oil, and below. LEM'ON AC'ID. See Citeic Acid. LEM'ON FLA'VOUR. See Essence of Lemon. LEM'ON JUICE. Syn. Succiis limonum (Ph. L. & D.), L. Lemon juice is refrigerant and antiscorbutic, and has long been exten- sively employed in the preparation of cooling di’inks and effervescing draughts, which are justly esteemed as wholesome summer be- verages, as well as palliatives in fevers, nau- sea, &c. In scurvy, there is no remedy equal to freshly expressed lemon juice; and in acute rheumatism and gout, according to the united testimony of Dr. Owen Rees, Dr. Babington, and numerous Continental practitioners, it has been exhibited with considerable success. In agues, dysentery, English cholera, nausea and vomiting, heartburn, putrid sore-throat, hos- pital gangrene, syphilis, and numerous skin diseases, it has proved most serviceable. See Citeic acid. Gout, &c. Facti"tious Lemon Juice. Syn. Solutio ACIDI CITEICI, Succus LIMONUM FACTITIUS, L. Prep. 1. Citric acid, oz. ; carbonate of potassa, 45 gr.; white sugar, 2| oz.; cold water, 1 pint; dissolve, add the yellow peel of a lemon, and in 24 hours strain through a hair sieve or a piece of muslin. 2. As the last, but using 15 or 16 drops of oil of lemon, to flavour, instead of the lemon peel. Obs. The above is an excellent substitute for lemon juice, and keeps well in a cool place. Tartaric acid, and even vinegar, are sometimes used instead of citric acid; but it is evident that it then loses all claim to being considered as an imitation of lemon juice, and to employ it in lieu of which would be absurd. LEM'ON PEEL. Syn. Coetex limonum, (Ph. L.), L. “ The fresh and the dried ex- terior rind of the fruit”; the latter dried “ in the month of April or May.” (Ph. L.) Can- died lemon peel (coetex limonum conditus) is employed as a dessert, and as a flavouring ingredient by cooks and confectioners. It is reputed stomachic. See Candying. LEM'ON PIC'KLE. See Sauce. LEMONADE'. Syn. Lemon sheebet. King’s cup ; Limonadum, L.; Limonade, Fr. Prep. 1. Lemons (sliced), 2 in no.; sugar, 2^ oz.; boiling water, 1^ pint; mix, cover up the vessel, and let it stand, with occasional stir- ring, until cold, then pour off the clear through a piece of muslin or a clean hair sieve. 2. Juice of 3 lemons ; yellow peel of 1 lemon; sugar, \ lb. ; cold water, 1 quart; digest for 5 or 6 hours, or all night, and decant or strain as before. 3. Citric acid, 1 to dr.; essence of lemon, 10 drops; sugar, 2 oz.; cold water, 1 pint; agitate together until dissolved. Obs. Lemonade is a pleasant, cooling sum-