INHALATIOX. 773 l-7tli of its volume of rectified spirit must be added. Infusion of Valerian. Syn. Infusum va- LEEiANiE (Ph. L. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Valerian root, ^ oz.; boiling distilled water, 1 pint infuse for an liour in a covered vessel, and strain. 2. (Ph. D.) Valerian, 2 dr.; boiling ivater, 9 fl. oz. Antispasmodic and nervine; in hys- teria, hypochondriasis, epilepsy, and low fevers. 3. (Compound; Infusum valeeianje com- rosiTTJM, L.) Yellow cinchona bark, 1 oz.; valerian, ^ oz.; boiling water, 1 pint; as before. In debilitated nervous habits. Infusion of Vanilla. Syn. Vanilla tea; Infusum YANiLLiE, L. Prep. Vanilla, 1^ dr.; boiling water, 1 pint. A stimulant antispas- inodic; in hysteria, rheumatism, anaphrodisia, &c,; but chiefly used as a flavouring for liqueurs, confectionery, &c. Infusion of Vittie Vayr. Syn. Vittievayii TEA; Infusum vetiyerIjE, L. From the roots of Andropogon muricatus (yetiyee, YITTIE YAYE, or cuscus). Antispasmodic, dlajihoretic, and stimulant, and, when warm, diuretic and einmenagoguc; in rheumatism, gout, slight febrile cases, &c.; and as a pro- phylactic of cholera. See Essence. Infusion of V7all-pellitory. Syn. Infusum FAEIETAEI.®:, L. From the dried herb {Parie- taria officinalis). Aperient, diuretic, and pec- toral ; in asthmas, dropsies, calculous aftec- tions, &c. Infusion of Warnut Leaves. Syn. Walnut- leaf TEA; Infusum juglandis, L. From the,//’C5A leaves of the common walnut (Juglans i regia); also from the hi7ier wood-bark, and the green rind of the fruit. See Decoction and Exteact. ^ Infusion of Wa'ter-fen'nel. Syn. Infusum phellandei, L. Prep. (Bird.) Seeds of \ water-fennel, 5 dr.; boiling water, 1 pint. Pose. 3 to 4 fl. dr., to check excessive expectoration. Infusion of Whor'tleberry. Syn. Infusum uViE UESi, L. With alkalies, henbane, or opium, in diseases of the urinary organs; and with sulphuric acid and foxglove, in af- fections of the lungs. See Decoction and Exteact. Infusion of Wild-cherry Bark. Syn. Infu- sum PEUNi ViEGiNiAN.®: (Ph. XJ. S.), L. Prep. (Ph. U. S.) Wild cherry-tree ba^'k {Prunus Virgmiana, or Cerasus Serotina), ^ oz.; cold water, 16 fl. oz.; infuse 24 hours, and strain. A valuable tonic and febrifuge. Wild-cherry b.ark also exercises a sedative action on the circulatory and nervous systems, and is much used in America in a variety of diseases. Infusion of Wild Gin'ger. Syn. Infusum ASAEi Canadensis, L. From the root of wild ginger or Canada snake-root (Asarum Canadense). A warm stimulant diaphoretic; in the same cases as infusion of Virginian snake-root. Infusion of Willow Bark. Syn. Infusum SALicis, L. From the bark of the white or common willow {Salix alba). Astringent, tonic. and febrifuge; often used instead of infusion OF CINCHONA. Infusion of Win'ter Green. Syn. Infusum PYEOL.E, I. CHIMAPHIL^, L. Astringent, tonic, and diuretic; in dropsy, nephritic pains, and chronic affections of the urinary organs. It blackens the urine, like uva-ursi. See Decoction. Infusion of Wood Soot. Syn. Soot tea; Infusum fuliginis ligni, L. Antacid and stimulant. A similar preparation is also made from coal-soot, which is reputed antispasmodic and vermifuge. Infusion of Worm'wood. Syn. Woemwood TEA; Infusum absinthii, L. From the fresh tops of the plant, or from only half the quantity of the dried herb. In loss of ap- petite, dyspepsia, amenorrhcea, leucorrhoea, gout, worms, &c. See Bittees. INHALA'TION. Syn. Inhalatio, L. In 7uedicine, the drawing in or inspiring of vapour with the breath. Inhalations (inhalationes) are vapours or gases inhaled for the purpose of medicating the mucous membrane of the air-passages. The substances that are to furnish the vapours or fumes are put into a vessel called an ‘inhalee,’ which may be simply a small covered pot or mug of metal or glass, furnished with a short flexible tube, terminating in a small mouth-piece. In many cases even this simple apparatus may be dis- pensed with, and the fumes inhaled by holding the head over a vessel containing a little of the substance furnishing them; or, as with chloroform, a little may be dropped on a I handkerchief or napkin, which is then held to the nose. The following are the principal substances that are employed for inhalations at the present day:— 1. Carbonic acid gas and nitrous oxide; occasionally used in phthisis, by means of a bladder and mouth-piece. 2. Chlorine gas; exhibited by adding 5 or 6 drops of aqueous chlorine to the water (tepid) of the inhaler, which should be, in this case, of glass; employed in France for phthisis, but seldom used in England. 3. Chloroform; as an anaesthetic. 4. Vapour of iodme, administered in the same way as chlorine; occasionally used in phthisis. 5. Oxygen and hydrogen gases, either alone or diluted with air; employed in asthma and phthisis, by means of a bladder and mouth- piece. V 6. Tar vapour, obtained by heating tar, mixed with a little carbonate of potash, over a spirit lamp; occasionally employed in bron- chitis, and recommended by Sir A. Crighton in phthisis, but appears of little value in the latter. 7. Steam of hot water ; in bronchitis, and to allay the cough in phthisis; small quantities of the seeds of henbane, opium, poppy-heads, &c.,are frequently added to produce an anodyne