1316 VINEGARS (CULINARY)—VINOUS FERMENTATION. press, strain, and to each pint add of white sugar, 1 lb.; boil, skim, cool, and at once bottle. Some persons add 2 fl. oz. of brandy to each pint. 2. (P. Cod.) Fresh raspberries, picked from their calices, 3 Ih. (1 lb.—Ph. Bor.); good vinegar, 2 lb.; macerate, in glass, for a fort- night, then strain, without pressure. Obs. In a similar manner may be made CHEERY VINEGAR, STRAWBERRY V., and the vinegars of all other like fruits. Vinegar of Squills. Syn. Acetum sciLLiE (Ph. L. E. & D.), Acetum scilliticum, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Take of squills, recently dried and bruised, 2^ oz.; dilute acetic acid, 1 pint; macerate with a gentle heat, in a covered vessel, for 3 days, then press out the liquor, and, after defecation, add to the strained liquid, proof spirit, 1^ fl. oz. The Edinburgh and, Dublin Colleges direct cold maceration for 7 days in a glass vessel, and the Dublin omits the spirit. , ' 2. (Wholesale.) From squills, 7 lb.; dis- tilled vinegUr, 6 gall.; macerate in the cold for 10 days, press, and Alter. Expectorant and diuretic. Dose. ^ to 1^ fl. dr,; in chronic pulmonary afiections, dropsies^ &c. Vinegars (Cu'linary). Prep. 1. BlaCe PEPPER VINEGAR, CAPER V., CAPSICUM V., CELERY'SEED V., CHILLIE V., CRESS-SEED V., GARLIC V., GIN0ER V., HORSERADISH V., ONION V., RED-ROSE V., SeVILLE-OEANGE-PEEL V., SHALLOT V., TEUFELE V., WHITE PEPPER V., with several others of a like kind, are made by steeping about an oz. of the respective articles in a pint of good vinegar for 14 days, and straining. 2. Basil vinegar, burnet v., celery v., CHERVILLE V., ELDER-FLOWER V., GREEN-MINT V., TARRAGON V., with Several others from like substances, are prepared from 2 to 3 oz. of the leaves to each pint of vinegar; the whole being frequently shaken for 14 days, then strained and bottled. They are used in cookery. The culinary Vinegars may also be prepared in the same manner as the ‘ culi- nary spirits’ and ‘tinctures,’ by simply substituting strong pickling vinegar for the spirit. Vinegars (Perfumed'). Syn. Aceta odori- FEEA, L. Prep. From the dried flowers, 1 to 2 oz., or the fresh flowers, 2 to 4 o^r. / strongest distilled vinegar, 1 pint; digest for a week, strain, with pressure, and repeat the process with fresh flowers, if necessary. They may also be made by adding 15 to 20 drops, or q. s., of the respective essential oils to the vinegar. In a similar way are prepared the vinegars of CLOVE-GILLY FLOWERS, ELDER FLOWERS, LAVENDER F. (vinaigre distille de lavande), MUSK ROSES, ORANGE FLOWERS (fresh), PrO- viNS ROSES, RED ROSES (viniagre de rose; acetum rosatum), rosemary flowers (vinai- gre de rosmarin; acetum anthosatum), tarra- gon FLOWERS, &c. &c. Another excellent plan is to add 1 fl. oz. of glacial acetic acid to each pint of the respective perfumed spirits. This answers admirably for acetic eau de Cologne and like perfumes. VI'NOUS FERMENTA'TION. Syn. Al- coholic FERMENTATION. The peculiar change by which sugar, in solution, , is converted into carbonic acid, which is eliminated, and into alcohol, which remains in solution in the fer- mented liquor. The presence of a ^ferment ’ is essential to excite the vinous fermentation, as a solution of absolutely pure sugar remains unaltered, even though exposed to the conditions most favourable to its accession. In juices of the sweet fruits, and in those vegetable solutions that spontaneously T-an into a state of fermen- tation, the ferment is supplied by nature, and is intimately associated with the saccharine matter. In the juice of those grapes which produce the more perfect,wines, the relative proportions of the exciters of fermentation and the sugar are so accurately apportioned, that the whole of the former are decomposed, and nearly the whole of the latter is converted into alcohol; so thiit the liquid (wine) is left in a state hut little liable to' future change. An infusion of malt, however, in which thfe nitrogenized matters (gluten, vegetable albu- men, &c.) are absent, or at least present in too small quantities to vigorously excite the vinous fermentation, undergoes a mixed species of decomposition; with the production of pro- ducts widely different from those that result from the true vinous fermentation; or, in other words, the liquid becomes spoiled. But if 'A, ferment (yeast) be added to this infusion of malt under the above circumstances, and in the proper proportion to the sugar present, the true vinous fermentation Speedily com- mences, and the liquid becomes converted into beer. This is what actually takes place in the process of brewing, and the scientific brewer endeavours to employ a proper quantity of ferment to decompose the whole of the saccharine matter of his wort; but, at the same time, as equally endeavours to avoid the use of an excess. ’Tcie chief product oi vinous fermmtation is ALCOHOL, but there are other substances simultaneously produced, and which remain associated with the fermented liquor. Among the principal of these are oenanthic acid, oenan- thic ether, fusel oil (oil of potato spirit, oil of grain),' &c.; none of which exist previously to fermentation, and are generally supposed to result from the action of the nitrogenized matters of the solution on the sugar. Under certain circumstances these extraneous pro- ducts are formed in much larger quantities than under others; and as these substances injure the value of the alcohol with which they are associated, a knowledge of the pecu- liar circumstances favourable and unfavourable to their production is a desideratum to the brewer and distiller. According to MM. Colin and Thenard,