601 EUCALYPTIN—EVAPORATION. I several possess great beauty. The double- ' chloride with platinum forms orange-yellow' oc- ; tahedra. ; EUCALYP'TIN. A peculiar substance ex- j isting in Botany Bay kino. It has been eni- , ployed medicinally in diarrhoea. I EUCHLO"RINE. A bright-yellow gas, pre- ' pared by gently heating chlorate of potassa with hydrochloric acid. It is probably a mix- 1 ture of chlorous acid and free chlorine. ! EUPHOR'BIUM. Syn. Gtim euphoebium ; i Euphoebium (Ph. E.), L. The concrete resi- nous juice of the Euphorbia canariensis, and I other species of the same genus. It is a pow- 1 erful acrid, purgative, rubefacient, sternu- ! tatory, and vesicant, and the violence of its I action has led to its disuse. It is excluded from the Ph. L. & D. I EU'PIONE. An ethereal liquid forming the I chief portion of the light oil of wood-tar, and ! which also exists in the tar obtained during ' the destructive distillation of animal substances, and in the fluid product of the distillation of j rape oil. It is separated from these sub- j stances by agitating them with oil of vitriol, \ or a mixture of oil of vitriol and nitre, and , subsequent cautious distillation. Pure eupione 1 is tasteless, exceedingly thin, limpid, and j aromatic; boils at 116“ Fahr.; and is the ! lightest fluid known; sp. gr. ’655. It is very inflammable, burns with a very bright I flame, and gives a transient greasy stain to ' paper. It is isomeric with hydeide of amyl. i Other volatile hydrocarbons of like origin are often confounded with eupione by chemical i writers. j EUPYRTON. Any contrivance for obtain- ; ing instantaneous light; as a lucifer match, I &c. ! EVAC'UANTS. Syn. Evacuantia, L. Me- ] dicines which augment the secretions or excre- tions. Cathaetics, diaphoeetics, diueet- ; ICS, emetics, eeehines, expectoeants, and i sialogogues, belong to this class. EVAPORATION. The conversion of a fluid i into vapour by means of heat, diminished I atmospheric pressure, or exposure to a dry , atmosphere. Evaporation is had recourse to —1. For the vapour as a source of heat or power, as in the case of steam-boilers, &c.; . —2. To separate volatile fluids from impurities \ or other bodies, w'hich are either flxed or less volatile;—3. To recover solid bodies from their solutions, as in the preparation of extracts, I chemical salts, &c.;—4. To concentrate or strengthen a solution by the expulsion of some ' of the fluid matter that forms the menstruum; —5. To purify liquids by the dissipation of the volatile matters w'hich may contaminate 1 them. It is found that, under ordinary circum- 1 stances, evaporation is conflned to the surface I of the heated liquid, and is therefore slower or i quicker, in proportion to the extension of that surface. Hence has arisen the adoption of wide, shallow vessels for containing fluids during their exposure to heat for this purpose. Eva- poration proceeds most rapidly when a current of air (especially hot and dry air) is made to pass over the surface of the fluid; as, in this case, the vapour is prevented resting upon the surface, and impeding the process by its pres- sure. For a similar reason, liquids evaporate more rapidly in vessels partially ctvered than in open ones. In the former ease the eool in- eumbent air condenses and throws back a portion of the vapour, which thereupon, be- sides its cooling action, offers mechanical re- sistance to the diffusion of the vaporous par- ticles as they arrive at the surface of the liquid. In the latter case these obstacles are avoided, and the impetus of the vapour pour- ing forth from a contracted orifice (or pipe), not only readily overcomes the pressure of the atmosphere, but offers less surface for its cooling action, until it has passed much be- yond the points at which it can exert any influence on the fluid from which it has es- caped. In this w'ay the chemical action of the atmosphere on the liquid operated on is also considerably lessened. On the small scale, shallow capsules of glass, wedgewood-ware, porcelain, or metal, are commonly employed as evaporating vessels, and these are exposed to heat by plaeing them over a lamp, or naked fire, or in a watee bath, or sand BATH, aceording to the temperature at which it is proper to conduct the process. On the LAEGE SCALE, high-pressure steam is usually employed as the source of heat. The term ‘spontaneous evaporation* is applied to the dissipation of a fluid by mere exposure in open vessels, at the common temperature of the atmosphere, and without the applieation of artificial heat. The celerity of this species of evaporation wholly depends on the degree of humidity of the surrounding air, and differs from the former, in which the rate of evapo- ration is proportionate to the degree of heat at which the process is conducted, and the amount of pressure upon the surface of the liquid. Evaporation ‘ in vacuo ’ (as it is called) is conducted under the receiver of an air- pump, or in an attenuated atmosphere, pro- duced by filling a vessel with steam, by which means the air is expelled, when all communi- cation with the external atmosphere is cut off*, and the vapour condensed by the application of cold. Fluids are also evaporated in .air- tight reeeivers over sulphuric acid, by which they are continually exposed to the aetion of a very dry atmosphere. When such a receiver is connected with an air-pump in action, eva- poration proceeds with increased rapidity, and intense eold is produeed. It appears, from the experiments of Dr. Ure, that “if the bottom of a pan, and the portion of the sides immersed in a hot fluid medium (solution of chloride of calcium, for example), be corrugated, so as to contain a double expanse of metallic surface, that pan will evaporate exactly double the quantity of water, in a given time, which