EMETINE—EMMENAGOGUES. 558 II when every other line of treatment has failed. Emetics should be avoided in plethoric habits, in hernia, pregnancy, and whenever visceral inflammation is suspected. They should also be given with great caution to young children and females, and to the nervous and delicate. In such cases, wine or powder of ipecacuanha should alone be employed. Emetic Cups. &yn. Antimonial gups; POCULA EMETICA, CaLICES YOMITOEII, L. Small cups made of metallic antimony. Wine left in them for 10 or 12 hours becomes emetic. Emetic Tartar. See Antimony (Potassio- tartrate). EM'ETINE. Syn. Emetin, Emetia, Eme- TiNA; La matieee vomative, Fr. A peculiar alkaloid, forming the active principle of the root of Cephaelis Ipecacuanha. It was disco- vered by Pelletier and Magendie in 1817. Prep. 1. (Medicinal—Emetic exteact.)— a. Ipecacuanha (in coarse powder) is digested first in ether, and then in rectified spirit for 3 or 4 days; the alcoholic tincture is next ex- pressed and evaporated (distilled) to dryness; the residuum is dissolved in distilled water, and the solution precipitated with acetate of lead ; the precipitate is then diffused through distilled water, in a tall glass vessel, and sul- phuretted hydrogen is passed through it, to throw down the lead; after which the liquor is decanted, filtered, evaporated to the con- sistence of a thick syrup, and spread in a thin layer on warm plates of glass, and allowed to dry in a current of warm air, or by a gentle heat in a stove. The maceration in ether is frequently omitted. b. Ipecacuanha, 1 part; rectified spirit (•835), 7 parts; make a tincture, distil oft' the spirit, dissolve in cold distilled water, 5 parts; filter the solution, and evaporate, &c., as before. Inferior to the last. c. (P. Cod.) As the last, nearly. Obs. Medicinal or impure emetine is brown- ish red, deliquescent, and emetic in doses of i to i gr. 2. (Pure.)—a. Ipecacuanha (in coarse pow- der), 1 part, is digested for 24 hours in dis- tilled water, 10 parts; together with calcined magnesia, added in slight excess; the deposit is then thrown on a filter, washed carefully with very cold water, and dried; it is next dis- solved in rectified spirit and neutralized with dilute sulphuric acid; the filtered solution is decoloured with animal charcoal, again filtered, and again precipitated by digestion with mag- nesia ; the last deposit forms a colourless solution with rectified spirit, which, by gentle evaporation, gives up its emetine as a yellow- ish-white pulverulent mass, which may be ren- dered perfectly white by redissolving it in alcohol, &c., as before. The process is ren- dered easier by first digesting the powdered ipecacuanha in ether. b. (P. Cod) Alcoholic extract of ipecacu- anha, 1 part; water, 10 parts; dissolve, filter; ® add calcined magnesia, 1 part; evaporate to j ® dryness, wash the product on a filter with very ^ ” cold water, 5 parts; dry it again, and dissolve it in boiling alcohol; evaporate the filtered ’ tincture to dryness, redissolve the residuum in | a little water, acidulate (slightly) with dilute \ P sulphuric acid, decolour with animal charcoal, , ’’ filter, precipitate with liquor of ammonia, and ^ dry the precipitate by a gentle heat. , f c. (Ph. Suec., 1845.) Powdered ipecacuanha, ‘ 1 part; water acidulated with sulphuric acid, 6 ' parts; digest, filter; add lime, 1 part, and evapo- ' rate to dryness over a water bath; the re- ' siditum is then exhausted with boiling rec- tified spirit, and otherwise treated as in the last formula. 1 Prop., Sec. Pure emetine is white, pulve- ; ' rulent, inodorous, and bitter; fusible at 122° Fabr.; very soluble in alcohol and boiling water, but only slightly so in ether, oils, and cold water. It restores the blue colour of reddened litmus, and partially neutralizes the acids, forming scarcely crystallizable salts. It is reddened by nitric acid, and this red colour is deepened by ammonia, Tincture of iodine produces a reddish precipitate in an alcoholic solution of emetine. With tincture of galls this solution behaves like morphia; but, unlike the last substance, the salts of iron produce no change of colour in it. These reactions, com- bined with its emetic properties, are sufficient for its identification. Dose. White and pure emetine is emetic in doses of h to I's gr. The large doses ordered in certain pharmaceutical i compilations, evidently in error of the dif- ference between the strengths of the pure and the impure or medicinal emetine, have, in several cases which have been reported on, produced very serious consequences. ) EMMEN'AGOGUES. Syn. EMMENAaoaA, L. Medicines which are considered to have the power of promoting the menstrual dis- charge when either retained or suspended. There are, probably, few remedies which exert this specific power on the uterus, the majority of repeated emmenagogues acting rather by their influence on the system generally, or on parts contiguous to the uterus, than in the uterus itself. Among the substances usually arranged under this class are—aloes, black hellebore, birthwort, borax, cubebs, ergot, gam- boge, gin, iodide of potassium, iodine, madder, mercurials, the peppers, rue, savine, stimulants (generally), stimulating diuretics, stinking goose- foot, stinking orache, wine, &c. Of the above, ergot and madder are the only articles which exercise a direct power on the uterus, and that rather in increasing its expulsive energy than in promoting the men- [ strual function, though they are advantage- 1 ously employed for the latter purpose. Several i of the other substances named are drastic , purgatives, or possess cerebro-spinal properties, or local powers of irritation, by which they increase the pelvic circulation, or produce ex- i'. I