816 LACTIC ACID. precipitate the baryta with dilute sulphuric acidy carefully avoiding excess, and gently evaporate to the consistence of a syrup, or until it acquires the density 1-215. Lactate of lime may be used instead of lactate of baryta, in which case a solution of oxalic acid must be employed as the precipitant. Pure. (See No. 5.) 2. Milk (skimmed or stale), Igall.; bicar- bonate of soda, ^ lb. ; dissolve, and expose the liquid to the air for some days, until it be- comes sour, then saturate the excess of acid with some more bicarbonate of soda, and again expose it to the air; repeat this as often as the liquid becomes sour; next heat the liquid to the boiling-point, filter, evaporate to dryness (or nearly), and exhaust the residuum with rectified spirit; filter the alcoholic solution, which contains ‘ lactate of soda,’ add sulphuric acid as long as it causes a precipitate to form, again filter, and concentrate the clear liquid by evaporation. 3. (Boutron and Fremy.) Milk, 3 or 4 quarts; sugar of milk, 200 to 300 gr.; mix, and expose for 2 or 3 days in an open vessel at 70° to 80° Fahr., then saturate with bicarbonate of soda, again expose at a moderate tem- perature, saturate with more bicarbonate of soda, and repeat the process until the whole of the sugar of milk is decomposed ; then coagu- late the casein by heat, filter, evaporate, extract the acid lactate of soda by alcohol of sp. gr. -810, and decompose it by the cautious addition of dilute sulphuric acid; again filter, distil off the alcohol, and evaporate as before. 4. (S(fneele.) Evaporate sour whey to Jth of its bulk, saturate with slaked lime, filter, add 3 or 4 times the quantity of water, cau- tiously precipitate the lime with a solution of oxalic acid, filter, and gently evaporate to dryness in a water bath; digest the residuum in strong rectified spirit, and again filter and evaporate. 5. (Wackenroder.) Sugar of milk, finely powdered chalk, 20 parts; skimmed milk, 100 parts; water, 200 parts; digested together at about 75° Fabr. In six weeks the chalk will he dissolved; the whole is then heated, hut not to boiling; the cheese is strained off, pressed, and the decanted liquid is clarified by albumen and evaporated, to let the ‘ lactate of lime’ crystallize; the salt is recrystallized and decomposed, either by sulphuric acid or by the exact quantity of oxalic acid. This is, per- haps, the most effective mode of preparing lactic acid. 6. (Wholesale.)—a. Good raw cane-sugar, 7 lb., is dissolved in milk (skimmed or stale), 2 gall., and cheese (in a moist or putrescent state), \ lb., and chalk, 4 lb., previously rubbed to a cream with water, 1^ gall., is then added; tbe mixture is next exposed in a loosely co- vered jar, at a temperature of 80° to 86° Fabr., with occasional stirring, for 2 or 3 weeks, or until the whole is converted into a semi-solid mass of crystals of ‘ lactate of lime’; this is purified either by draining off and expressing tbe liquid portion, dissolving tbe residue in water, and evaporating tbe solution for crys- tals; or the whole is put into a stoneware vessel and heated to the boiling-point, by which the ‘casein’ is coagulated, and tbe ‘ lactate of lime’ is dissolved; the solution, fil- tered whilst hot, furnishes the salt in crystals on cooling; these crystals are subsequently dissolved in water, and the filtered soluticu decomposed by oxalic acid, as before. b. From cane-sugar, 4 parts; moist cheese, 1 part; chalk, 3 parts; water, 20 parts; as the last. Obs. Lactic acid prepared by any of the usual formulae may be rendered quite pure by dilution with water, saturation with baryta, evaporation, crystallization, re-solution in water, and the careful addition of dilute sul- phuric acid, as in No. 1; the liquid is, lastly, again filtered and evaporated. Another plan is to convert the acid into ‘ lactate of zinc,’ by the addition of commercial white zinc, and to redissolve the new salt in water, and then decompose tbe solution with a stream of sul- phuretted hydrogen. In all cases the evapora- tion should be conducted at a very gentle heat, and, w-hen possible, finished over sul- phuric acid, or in vacuo. For very nice pur- poses, this last product may be dissolved in ether, filtered, and the ether removed by a very gentle heat. Care mnst also be taken to remove the solid ‘ lactate of lime’ at the proper period from the fermenting liquid, as otherwise it will gradually redissolve and dis- appear, and on examination the liquid will be found to consist chiefly of a solution of ‘ BIJ- TYEATE or LIME.’ Prop. The product of the above formulae is a solution of lactic acid. It may be concen- trated in vacuo over a surface of oil of vitriol until it appears as a syrupy liquid of sp. gr. 1-215; soluble in water, alcohol, and ether; exhibiting the usual acid properties, and form- ing salts with the bases, called lactates. Heated in a retort to 266° Fahr., a small por- tion distils over, and the residuum on cooling concretes into a yellowish, solid, fusible mass, very bitter, and nearly insoluble in water. This is lactic acid, which has lost half (1 equiv.) of its basic water. By long boiling in water, this substance is reconverted into lactic acid. Heated to 480° Fahr., it suffers decomposition, LACTIDE (the ‘ anhydrous,’ ‘ concrete,’ or ‘ sub- limed lactic acid’ of former w-riters) and other products being formed. This new substance may be purified by pressure between bibulous paper and solution in boiling alcohol, fro-m which it separates in dazzling white crystals on cooling. By solution in hot water and evaporation to a syrup, it furnishes common lactic acid. Uses. Lactic acid has been given in dyspep- sia, gout, phosphatic urinary deposits, &c. From its being one of the natural constituents