800 IRON ALUM—IRON LIQUOR. hydrosulj)hate of ammonia or of sulphuret of potassium to a neutral solution of protosulphate of iron made with recently distilled or boiled water; the precipitate is collected on a filter, washed as quickly as possible with recently boiled water, squeezed in a linen cloth, and preserved in the pasty state, under water, as directed under htdeated peeoxide of ieon. Prop., 8fc. The protosulphuret prepared in the dry way is a blackish brittle substance, attracted by the magnet. It is largely used in the laboratory as a source of sulphuretted hydrogen. The hydrated protosulphuret is a black, insoluble substance, rapidly decomposed by exposure to the air. Proposed by Mialhe as an antidote to the salts of arsenic, antimony, bismuth, lead, mercury, silver, and tin, and to arsenious acid; more especially to white ar- senic and corrosive sublimate. A gargle containing a little hydrated protosulphuret of iron, will instantly remove the metallic taste caused by putting a little corrosive sub- limate into the mouth.” (Mialhe.) On contact with the latter substance, it is instantly con- verted into protochloride of iron and sulphuret of mercury, two comparatively inert sub- stances. It is administered in the same way as the hydrated peroxide of iron. When taken immediately after the ingestion of cor- rosive sublimate, it instantly renders it in- nocuous; hut when the administration is delayed until 15 or 20 minutes after the poison has been swaUowed, it is almost useless. (Orfila.) 2. Bisul'phuret of Iron. Syn. Bisulphide OF lEON. This compound occurs native as lEON PYEITES. It is of a brass-yellow colour, and is not attracted by the magnet. 3. Sesquisul'phuret of Iron. Syn. Peesul- PHUEET OF lEON. This compound is prepared in the hydrated state (feeei peesulphu- EETUM hydeatum) by adding, very gradually, a neutral solution of persulphate of iron to a dilute solution of sulphuret of potassium or hydrosulphuret of ammonia, and collecting, &c., the precipitate, as in the case of the hydrated protosulphuret. Proposed by Bouchardat and Sandras as a substitute for the hydeated PEOTOSULPHUEET OF lEON, to which, they say, it is preferable. Tan'nate of Iron. Syn. Feeei tannas, Feeeum tannicum, L. Prep. From tannin, 1 part; boiling water, 150 parts; dissolve, add of freshly precipitated sesquioxide of iron (dried at 212° Fahr.), 9 parts; evaporate by a gentle heat to one half, filter, add of sugar, 1 part, complete the evaporatibn, and at once put it into bottles. Dose. 3 to 5 gr., thrice daily; in chlorosis, internal haemorrhages, &c. Tar'trate of Iron. Syn. Feeei taeteas, Feeei peototaeteas, L. Prep. 1. From iron filings, 2 parts; tartaric acid., 1 part; hot water, q. s.; digest together until reaction ceases, agitate the liquid, pour off the turbid solution, and collect, wash, and dry the pow- der, as quickly as possible, and keep it out of contact with the air. 2. (Soubeiran.) Crystallized tartrate of potassa (not bitartrate), 132 parts; protosul- phate of iron, 139 parts; dissolve each sepa- rately, mix the solutions, and collect the pre- cipitate as before. A nearly insoluble powder ; seldom used. Obs. By dissolving the corresponding hy- drated oxides in a solution of tartaric acid, employing the former in slight excess, and evaporating, both the tartrate of protoxide and of peroxide of iron, are easily obtained. Vale”rianate of Iron. Syn. Valeeianate OF SESQUIOXIDE OF lEON, VaLEEATE OF lEON ; Feeei valeeianas (Ph. D.), L. Prep. (Ph. D.) By adding a solution of valerianate of soda to another of persulphate of iron (prepared as directed under hydeated peeoxide of ieon), and collecting and washing the pre- cipitate, which is to he dried by placing it for some days folded in bibulous paper, on a porous brick; after which it is to be carefully kept from the air. Prop., ^c. A reddish-brown amorphous powder; nearly insoluble in water; soluble in rectified spirit, and in the dilute acids with decomposition. Citrate or tartrate of iron, flavoured with oil of valerian, is frequently sold for it. Dose. 1 to 3 gr.; in anaemia and chlorosis complicated with hysteria. IRON AL'UM. See Alums. IRON CEMENT'. See Cements. IRON FI”LINGS. Syn. Feeei eamenta (Ph. L. 1836), Feeei limatuea (Ph. E.), Feeei scobs (Ph. D.). The usual method of preparing iron filings for medical purposes has been already noticed; the only way, however, to obtain them pure, is to act on a piece of soft iron with a clean file. The Fr. Cod. orders them to be forcibly beaten in an iron mortar, and to be separated from oxide and dust by means of a fine sieve, and from the grosser parts by means of a coarse hair-sieve. Dose. 10 to 30 gr., in sugar or honey, as a chalybeate; in larger doses it is an excellent vermifuge, especially for ascarides or the small thread-worm. IRON LIQ'UOR. Syn. Pyeolignite of IEON, Dyee’s acetate OF I., Black liquoe, Tae ieon l. ; Feeei acetas venalis, L. This article, so extensively used in dyeing, is a crude mixed acetate of the protoxide and sesquioxide of iron. It is usually prepared by one or other of the following methods;— 1. Old scraps of iron (hoops, worn-out tin- plate, &c.) are left in a cask of pyroligneous acid, occasional agitation being had recourse to, until a sufficiently strong solution is ob- tained. By keeping the acid moderately warm in suitable vessels it will become satu- rated with the iron in a few days. With cold acid, on a large scale, forty days or more are required to complete the process. 2. A solution of pyrolignite or crude acetate of lime, is added to another of green copperas.