AMMONIA. 151 chief portion of that used in England. A large quantity is now, however, made at Man- chester and Liverpool; that from the exten- sive works of Messrs. Kurtz, Cropper, and Co., being equal in quality to any produced in these realms. A small quantity is imported from Germany. That from Brunswick is in the form of sugar-loaves. An inferior quality is also imported, in chests, from the East Indies. The ‘red bands’ frequently seen in the sal ammoniac of commerce, are said to arise from the workmen falling asleep, and allowing the fire to * go down,’ and then suddenly raising the heat too high. (Muspratt.) They consist chiefly of ammonio-chloride of iron. Hydrochlorate of ammonia is now included in the ‘ Materia Medica’ of the British phar- macopoeias. The price of commercial sal ammoniac ranges from £24 to £28 per ton. See Ammoxia, Sesqtjicarbonate (ante) and Sulphate op Ammonia (infra), Hydeochloeic Acid, &c. Hydrosulphates of Ammonia. There are, at the least, five different compounds of hydro- sulphuric acid with ammonia, or of sulphur and ammonium, known to chemists, or which have been employed in medicine; but only three of them are of sufficient practical im- portance to deserve notice here — 1. Hydrosul'phate of Ammonia. Syn, Hy- deosul'phueet of ammonia. Neutral hy- DEOSULPHATE or HYDEOSULPHUEET OF A. ; Sul'phide of ammo"nium, Peotosul'phide OF A.; SULPHUEET OF A. Prep. Saturate strong liquor of ammonia with pure sulphuretted V hydrogen gas; then add a second portion of ' liquor of ammoniay equal to that first used, and preserve it in a well-stoppered bottle. Obs. This is the neutral hydrosulphate or protosulphide, properly so called. It is chiefly I used as a chemical reagent, to effect the preci- pitation of those metals which sulphuretted hydrogen fails to throw down from acid solu- I tions. According to Fresenius, only “ two- thirds of the quantity of solution of ammonia” i j should be added to the saturated portion; as “ it is better the preparation should contain a little ‘hydrosulphate of sulphide of ammonium,’ than that/ree ammonia should be present.”*^ 1 2. Bihydi’osul'phate of Ammonia. Syn. Bi- HYDEOSUL'PHUEET of AMMONIA; BiSUL'PHIDE OF ammo”nium, Bisul'phueet of a.. Hydro- sulphate OF SULPHIDE OF A., SULPHO- HY'DEATE of a.; DoUBLE SULPHUEET OF AMMONIUM AND HY'DEOGEN; Hep'aTISED AMMONIAf, &C.; AmMO''NLH HYDEOSUL'PIIAS (Ph. L. & U. S.), A. hydeosulphuee'tum (Ph. D.), Ammonia hepatisa'taI, &c., L. ; Hydeosulfate d’ammoniaque. Sulfide I i i ^ Those for which fonmilu; are not given in the Text, ami, indeed, all tlie sulphides of ammonium, may be ob- tained, by distillation, from a mi,\ture of the corresponding sulphides of polassium or of sodium and sal animouiac ; the receiver being surrounded with ice or a freeziuy mixture. * Fresenius’s “Qualitative Axalasts5tli cd„ Bullock’s Translation, 41. d’ammonium, &c., Fr. This is the foetid fuming liquid preparation of the shop, com- monly sold and known under the name of hy- drosidphuret or hydrosulphate of ammonia. Prep. 1. Liquid or in solution :—a. (Ph, D. 1850.) Take of sulphuret of iron, 1| oz.; water, 15 oz.; place them in a two-necked bottle, and add by degrees, through a safety funnel, of commercial oil of vitriol, \\ fi. oz. ; and pass the evolved gas, first through a little distilled water (2 oz.) placed in an interme- diate phial, and then into solution of ammonia (Ph. D.), 4:fi. oz. ; observing to place the end of the tube conveying the gas near the bottom of the bottle containing the ammonia, and to loosely plug the neck of the latter with toiv. “ If, when the development of gas has ceased, a drop of the ammoniacal liquid, added to a saturated solution of sulphate of magnesia, gives no precipitate, the process is completed; but should a precipitate occur, the hydrosul- phuret still contains ‘ free ammonia,’ and must, therefore, be again subjected to the action of sulphuretted hydrogen.” Sp. gr. ’999. It must be kept in a green-glass stoppered bottle. b. (Mr. Wooley.) Sulphur, 1 part; fresh hydrate of lime, 2 parts; water, q. s.; boil, filter, and to the filtered solution add, for every 8 parts of sulphur used, 33 parts of sul- phate of ammonia. Sulphate of lime is precipi- tated and li3^drosulphuret of ammonia remains in solution.^ The product usually contains traces of lime, which do not, however, unfit it for most of its common applications. c. (Ordinary commercial.) By passing sul- phuretted hydrogen gas, to saturation, through a mixture composed of strong liquor of am- monia, 1 part, and distilled water, 4 parts. 2. (Crystallised.) By verj' carefully mixing together equal volumes of ammoniacal gas and sulphuretted hydrogen gas,\n a vessel surrounded with ice; or bj^ distillation from a mixture of sal ammoniac and a corresponding sulphide of potassium or sodium, as before mentioned. Prop., ^e. Ill the solid form, acicular or foliated ciystals, smelling strongly of both ammonia and sulphuretted hydrogen; ex- tremely' volatile; reaction, alkaline; with water it forms a transparent solution. In the gaseous form, it constitutes the nauseous 1 effluvia evolved from privies, sewers,, and de- I composing animal matter. In the liquid form 1 (i. e., in solution), prepared as above, it has a I very foetid odour, and exhibits the other common properties of the bihydrosulphate. I When pure it is ivholly volatilised by heat, and j neither the crystals nor the solution disturb a ; solution of sulphate of magnesia (see 1, a., above). Mineral acids decompose it, with the evolution of sulphuretted hydrogen. By age its solution undergoes a slight change; am- monia is evolved, a deposit of sulphur takes place, and it acquires a yellow tint, “ owing to the formation of pentasulfhuret of am- monium. This yellow colouration does not, I 3 Viiic “ Pharm, Jouni.f ii, 665.