i GERMAN TINDER—GILDING. 687 ][ precipitate produced by the sulphuretted hy- I drogen (see c.) is boiled until it loses its offen- ' sive odour, and is then precipitated with car- j, honate of soda, in slight excess, and again ^ boiled for a few minutes; the precipitate I {mixed oxides of nickel and zinc) is collected, I washed, and redissolved in dilute acetic or ' nitric acid, in excess; a current of sulphuretted hydrogen is next passed through the solution, i the precipitate collected on a filter, washed, redissolved in hydrochloric acid, and the so- I lution again treated with carbonate of soda; ! the last precipitate (oxide of zinc) is washed, { dried, and gently ignited. Every 40 gr. of ,1 this oxide is equivalent to 32 gr. of metallic ZINC. f. The' washings ’ of the precipitated oxides i| and the liquid filtered from the precipitate ^1 occasioned by the sulphuretted hydrogen (see e.) are mixed together, pure liquor of am- •, monia added in considerable excess, and the mixture agitated for some time; the undis- : solved portion of the precipitate is then col- lected on a filter, washed with distilled water, redissolved in dilute nitric acid, again pre- cipitated with liquor of potassa, and this last precipitate (sesquioxide) washed, dried, ig- nited, and weighed. Every 80 gr. represents . i 56 gr. of metallic iron. I g. The ‘ ammoniacal solution ^ filtered from the precipitate of sesquioxide of iron (see /.) I is precipitated with pure liquor of potassa, 1 boiled for a few minutes, and, when cold, i thrown on a filter; the precipitate is, lastly, I washed with hot water, dried, ignited, and I weighed. Every 37^ gr. of the oxide thus I obtained is equal to 29^ gr. of metallic I NICKEL. Obs. The manufacture of nickel or German j silver has of late acquired an importance which I is second only to that of silver plate itself. I The superior quality of this alloy, and the graceful patterns which it is often made to as- sume in the hands of the accomplished artist, cannot fail to have attracted the admiration of the majority of our readers. The value of correct information regarding the preparation I of this alloy, and of a ready method of deter- mining the composition of the most improved commercial samples, will therefore be fully appreciated by every metallurgist who wishes I to throw his wares into the arena of public competition. Much that is vended under the name of ‘ German silver’ is little better than the ‘ Britannia metal’ or ‘ plate pew- ter’ formerly so plentiful in every establish- I ment in this country. German silver has quite . superseded copper as the basis of ‘ electro-plated t goods.’ ^ I The union of the metals in the above for- 4 mulse is effected by heat, with the usual pre- ■ cautions. When iron is ordered, it is gene- rally added under the form of ‘ tin plate.’ I See Alloy, Brass, Britannia Metal, Bronze, j &c. I 1 See Electrotypi:, page 647. GER'MAN TIN'DER. See Amadou. GERMINA'TION. The growth or vegeta- tion of a seed by which a young plant is pro- duced. The conditions essential to germina- tion are the presence of warmth, air, and moisture. The most favorable temperature is between 60° and 85° Fahr., according to the habitat of the respective plants. Below 40° Fahr. most of the more perfect seeds either refuse to vegetate, or vegetate slowly and feebly ; and at or near the freezing-point none of them undergo this change. At a tempera- ture above 100° Fahr. the young germ is usu- ally injured, and at about 125°, if it forms, it soon withers and dies. See Malting, Seed, &c. GH^. A sort of butter used by the natives of India. Prep. Milk is boiled in large earthen pots for an hour or two, then allowed to cool, a little curdled milk called ‘ dhye’ being added in order to make the whole coagulate. After a lapse of some hours the contents of each to the depth of 5 or 6 inches are removed and placed in a larger earthenware ntensil, in which they are ‘ churned’ by means of a piece of split bamboo for about half an hour; then hot water is poured in, and the churning con- tinued for half an hour longer, after which time the butter is found to be formed. When this becomes rancid, it is melted in an earthen vessel, and boiled until all the water has eva- porated ; after which a little salt or betel-leaf is put into it, and finally it is poured off into suitable vessels in which it can be preserved from the air. Bottles are commonly used for this purpose. See Butter. GHER'KINS. Syn. Gir'kins. Small cu- cumbers adapted for pickling. See Pickles. GILDTNG. Syn. Dorure, Fr. The art or process of covering the surfaces of bodies with a thin film of gold, for the purpose of increas- ing their durability or improving their ap- pearance. For the sake of brevity, we shall briefiy notice the leading varieties of gild- ing, and their applications, in alphabetical order. Burnished gilding. This is distemper gilding to which a ^ face’ has been given with ^the ‘ burnisher.’ It is chiefly employed for the polished portions of the frames of pictures and mirrors, the more prominent parts of sta- tuettes, &c. Chemical gilding. Those varieties in which the film of gold is formed on the sur- face through the agency of chemical afinity, in opposition to ‘ mechanical gilding,’ in which the gold is made to adhere by the intervention of some glutinous substance.^ Cold gilding. The articles (copper or brass) to be gilded, after being softened, an- nealed, and polished, in the usual manner, are rubbed with a little gilding powder by means of a piece of cork moistened with a solution of salt in water; after which the work is bur- 2 See the patented processes of Elkington and Talbot, pages 689, 690.