INCRUSTATION—INDIGO. 755 I P I I I I i i [ i acid is taken five or six days after the adminis- tration of white oxide of antimony’* (Trousseau and Reveil.) Lists of incompatibles are published in many pharmaceutical and medical works, but are, in reality, of little use beyond illustrating rules and principles which are familiar to every che- mist, and which every prescriber should also be intimately acquainted with. INCRUSTATION (of Steam Boilers). Many methods have at various times been proposed to prevent the formation of deposits in steam boilers. Wlien water abounding in earthy carbonates (as Thames water) is used, the plan recommended by Dr. Ritterband will, we believe, be found one of [the best and least ex- pensive. It consists in simply throwing a little sal ammoniac into the boiler, by which carbonate of ammonia is formed, which passes off with the steam, and chloride of calcium, which remains in solution. In Holland this plan has been used with satisfaction for loco- motive boilers. About 2 oz. of the salt may be placed in the boiler twice a week. The chlo- ride of tin is equal to sal-ammoniac, and is similar in its action. Carbonate of soda has been recommended by Kuhlmann and Frese- nius, of Germany, and by Cruce Calvert, of England. It is now employed generally in the boilers of engines in Manchester. The common plan adopted by working engineers to prevent incrustations from either variety of water is, on each occasion of cleaning out the boiler, to introduce some substance which, by its mechanical action, shall prevent the preci- pitated earthy matter caking together, or adhering to the boiler plates. Some common tar, bitumen, or pitch, appears to answer well under most circumstances. Mr. Ira Hill re- commends the use of 3 or 4 shovelfuls of coarse sawdust. He states that, after adopting the use of this article, he never had any difficulty from lime, although using water strongly im- pregnated with it, and has always found the inside of his boilers as smooth as if just oiled. We have worked a powerful boiler daily for months without opening the ‘ man-hole,’ after throwing a few pounds potatoes into it. In all cases, when the earthy matter can be kept in a state of solution, or precipitated in a pulverulent form, it is easily removed from the boiler by what engineers term * priming,’ which is allowing the hot water to be blown over with the steam, so that, after a sufficient time, the whole original contents of the boiler are removed, and replaced by fresh water. Before doing so, however, it is of consequence to cut off the communication with the cylin- ders, and to open the waste-steam cock. INCUBATION (Artificial). The hatching of eggs by artificial heat. This has been prac- tised by the Egyptians from a very remote eriod. M. Bonnemain has the honour of ^ avung introduced this art to Western Europe, in 1775, and having been the first to pursue it successfully on the commercial scale. The source of heat employed by him was a circu- latory hot-water apparatus, and the tempe- rature maintained hy it 100° Fahr. His plan was to introduce, daily, l-20th only of the eggs the apparatus was capable of receiving, so that on the 21st day the first chickens were hatched, and a like number every day after- wards as long as the supply of eggs was kept up. Among the trays containing the eggs he placed saucers of water, to compensate for the absence of moisture derived in natural incu- bation by transpiration from the body of the hen. The chickens, as soon as hatched, were transferred to a ‘nursery’ or ‘chick-room,’ also artificially heated, and were fed with crushed millet seed. Several attempts have been made of late years to introduce arti- ficial incubation into this country, with vari- able success. IN'CUBUS. See NiaHTMAEE. IN'DIA RUB'BER. See Caoutchouc. INDIGESTION. See Dyspepsia. IN'DIGO. Syn. Indicum, Piomentum Indicum, L. a blue dyestuff extracted from several plants growing in India and America, especially from the leguminous species Indi- gofera tinctoria and I. caerulea. It exists in the plants as a colourless juice. The method of manufacture consists in steeping the plant in water until fermentation sets in; the colouring matter dissolves in the water, form- ing a yellow solution, which is drawn off from the rest of the vegetable matter, and agitated and beaten to bring it freely into contact with the air for about 2 hours; this treatment causes the indigo to form and settle down as a blue precipitate; this is cut, while soft, into cubical cakes, and dried by artificial heat. To hasten the formation of the indigo, a little lime water is sometimes added to the yellow solution. The indigo of commerce con- tains INDIGO-BLUE Or INDIGOTIN, its inost important constituent, indigo-eed, and many other substances, some of which must be regarded as accidental impurities or adul- terations. Prop. Tasteless; scentless; of an intense blue colour, passing into purple; when rubbed with a smooth hard body, it assumes a coppery hue; insoluble in water, cold alcohol, ether, alkalies, hydrochloric acid, dilute sulphuric acid, and the cold fixed and volatile oils; slightly soluble in boiling alcohol and oils; freely soluble in concentrated sulphuric acid, and, when decoloured or reduced by contact with deoxidizing substances, in alkaline lyes; soluble in creasote; its colour is destroyed by chromic acid, nitric acid, and chlorine; when suddenly heated, it gives off rich purple fumes, which condense into brilliant copper- coloured needles. Pur. The best indigo is that which has the deepest purple colour, and assumes the brightest coppery-hue when rubbed with the nail; its fracture is homogeneous, compact, fine-grained, and coppery; its powder is of an