1089 PIPES—PITCOAL. \pbs. An assay for its piperine is the only •tain method of testing the quality of either \'ck or white pepper. For this purpose a \ighed quantitxj of the sample is reduced to wder, and is exhausted with alcohol of the gr. "SSS; the mixed tinctures are then iporated to an extract, which is treated as , 3ve. See Pepper. PIPES. (In confectionery.) These are formed ;m any of the common lozenge-masses, by jling them into cylinders of about the thick- js of a goose-quill. They are frequently Idicated. iPISTA'CHIO NUTS. Syn. Pistacia nets ; (ICES PISTACI.E, L. The kernels of the fruit , Pistacia vera (Linn.), one of the turpentine j es. They closely resemble almonds, but are ; eeter, and form a green emulsion with water. \°d in confectionery and perfumery, and also ,a dessert fruit. PITCH. Syn. Black pitch. Boiled p., ONE p.. Wood p. ; Pix (Ph. L.), Pix niora, “A dry bitumen prepared from liquid ich.” (Ph. L.) The residuum from boiling in an open iron pot, or in a still, until the atile and liquid portion is driven off. The atile products principally consist of crude BOLIONEOUS ACID and OIL OF TAR. Pitcll chiefly employed in ship-building. As a ■ dicine, it is stimulant and tonic, and has bn used internally in some skin diseases, and j piles. An ointment made of it is also ex- jisively used in cutaneous affections of the I Ip. Bose. 10 gr. to ^ dr. iSorgundy Pitch. Syn. White pitch, Bur- Indy PINE RESIN; Pix Burgundica (Ph. L. D.), L. Impure resin prepared from the j;pentine of Abies excelsa,’’ ox Norway spruce (Ph. L.) “A concrete resinous exudation, )bably, in a great measure, from Abies ex- saP (Ph. E.) It is chiefly used in plasters. Obs. The importation of this substance i for some years past been gradually les- ling in amount, in consequence of the sub- ! tutiou for it of a factitious pitch, made by Iting common resin with linseed oil, and ' ouring the mass with annotta or palm oil. e physiological action of the two articles is, wever, considerably different, since Bur- ndy pitch acts upon the skin as a pow^erful al irritant, exciting a slight degree of in- nmation, and not unfrequently producing a : iiply eruption and an exudation of purulent tter. It is celebrated for its effects when ployed as a plaster in all cases where irmth, support, and long adhesion to the I n, are desirable; and in the latter quality substance equals it. The factitious Bur- ndy pitch has similar properties, but in an •nenseiy less degree. I’uEPARED Burgundy Pitch (Pix Bur- ' NDiCA pRjEparata—Ph. L.) is ordered to obtained in the same way as that adopted j strained ammoniacwn. (See page 158.) ■ 13 plan is, however, seldom, if ever, adopted 1 trade. i I Burgundy Pitch (Facti"tious), Syn. Pix Burgundica factitia, L. Prep. By melt- ing good yellow resin, 1 cwt., with linseed oil, 1 gall., and palm oil (bright), q. s. to colour. The mixture is allowed to cool considerably, and is then pulled with the hands in the same w'ay as lead p>laster is treated; afcer which it is placed in ‘ bladders ’ or ‘ stands ’ for sale. Obs. The product of the above formula is the ‘Burgundy pitch^ of the shops. The ‘ pulling * or ‘ working ^ destroys the trans- lucericy of the resin, and imparts to it the peculiar semi-opacity of foreign Burgundy pitch. Cold water is commonly employed to cool it down. Annotta is often substituted for palm oil as a colouring substance. The addi- tion of some of the ‘ droppings ’ or ‘ bottoms ’ of Canada balsam, Ohio tux'pentine, oil of ju- niper, &c., renders this article nearly equal to foreign pitch; but in commerce this is never attempted, the aim being only the production of a lively colour with moderate toughness. A common melting-pan and fire (if clean, and carefully managed) will succeed sufficiently j but, both for safety and convenience, steam is preferable, and on the large scale, almost indis- pensable. A good workman can pull and put into stands or casks about 5 cwt. daily; or from 1| cwt. to 3 cwt. in bladders, the latter quantity depending on the size of the bladders. (See above.) Can'ada Pitch. Sijn. Hemlock gum, H. PITCH. Similar to Burgundy pitch j but from the Abies Canadensis, or hemlock spruce fir. Jews’ Pitch. Asphaltum. Min'eral Pitch. Indurated mineral bitumen. See Asphaltum, Bitumen, &c. PIT'COAL. Syn. Coal; Houille, Fr.; Steinkohle, Ger. This article has been truly described as the most valuable of all those mineral substances from which Great Britain derives its prosperity, and the one which may be regarded as the main support of the whole system of British production. It fuses the metals, it produces the steam which sets our machinery in motion, and, in short, it may be said to render all the resources of this country available for use. The more important kinds of coal may be classified as follows:—1. Lignite or brown COAL (see page 834).—2. Bituminous or CAKING COALS. The most widely diffused and valuable of English coals. They are subdi- vided into:—a. Caking coal. Splinters on heating, but the fragments then fuse together in a semi-pasty mass. The chief sources of this valuable variety of coal are the Newcastle and Wigan districts, b. Cherry coal or soft coal. Lustre very bright; does not fuse ignites well and burns rapidly. Glasgow, Staffordshire, Derbyshire, Nottingham, Lan- cashire, &c. c. Splint, rough, or hard coal. Black and glistening; does not ignite readily, but burns up to a clear hot fire. It constitutes the bulk of the great coal-fields of North and South Staffordshire, and occurs in the Glasgow 69