384 CALOMEL—CAMERA LUCIDA. to render them adhesive and to prevent their spreading. The following are the principal styles of calico-printing, each requiring a dilferent method of manipulation :— In the madder, fast colour, or chintz style, mordants are applied to the white cloth, and the colours are brought out in the dye-bath. This is the method commonly followed for “ permanent prints.’’ In the padding or plaquage style, the whole cloth is passed through a bath of some particular mordant, and different mordants are afterwards printed on it before submitting it to the dye- bath. By this means the colour of the ground and pattern is varied. Like the last, it is much used for gown pieces, &c. In the reserve or resist-paste style, white or coloured figures are produced, by covering those parts with a composition which resists the general dye afterwards applied to form the ground of the pattern. In this style the dye-bath is indigo or some other substantive colour. The discharge, or rongeant style, is the re- verse of the preceding; it exhibits bright figures on a dark ground, which are produced by printing with acidulous or discharge mor- dants after the cloth has been passed through the colouring-bath. Steam-colour printing, consists in printing the calico with a mixture of dye extracts and mordants, and afterwards exposing it to the action of steam. Spirit-colour printing, is a method by which brilliant colours are produced by a mixture of dye-extracts and solution of tin, called by the dyers spirits of tin.'* Pigment printing, consists in applying such colours as ultramarine, magenta, or aniline purple, to the cloth, and fixing them by such agents as caseine, albumen, or solution of india- rubber. This style of printing has been de- veloped to a great extent since the introduc- tion of the splendid mauves and purples ob- tained from aniline. For further information on this subject, the reader is referred to lire’s ‘ Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines,' and O’Neill’s ‘ Dic- tionary of Calico Printing and Dyeing' where he will find the several processes of calico printing fully treated on, and most ably and accurately described. To enter largely into the subject in this work might amuse the reader, but would be of no practical value ; as calico-printing is an art only practised on the large scale, and by men who obtain their whole knowledge of it in the laboratories and printing rooms of the factories. CAL'OMEL. See Meectjey (Chlorides of). CAL'OTYPE. See PnoxoaEAPHY. CALUM'BA. Syn. Calum'ba-eoot ; Ka- LTJMB, Hind. The root of a plant of Eastern Africa, extensively used in medicine as a sto- machic and mild tonic. The botanical name of this plant is Jateorhiza palmata, or Coc- culus palmalus. See Calumbine {below); also Infusions and Tinctuees. CALUM'BA-WOOD. This wood, which is used as a tonic by the Cingalese, is not the pro- duce of the true calumba-plant, but of Menis- permuni fenestratum. It contains the alkaloid beebeeine (which see). CALUM'BINE. Syn. Calom'bine, Calum'- BiNA. A bitter substance discovered by Witt- stock in calumba root. Prep. 1. Digest calumba root (in coarse powder) in water acidulated with acetic acid; express, filter, boil to one half, again filter, add carbonate of lime, in slight excess, and eva- porate to dryness in a water bath ; reduce the residuum to powder, and digest it in boiling alcohol; the latter will deposit crystals of CALUMBINE On COOlillg. 2. (Wittstock.) Evaporate tincture of ca- lumba root (made with rectified spirit) to dry- ness ; dissolve the residuum in water, and agi- tate the solution with an equal bulk of ether i after repose for a short time, decant the ethe- real portion, distil off most of the ether, and set the liquid aside to crystallize. Prop., ^c. Impure calumbine occurs as a yellow-brown mass; when pure, it forms rhombic prismatic crystals, or delicate white needles; it is only slightly soluble in alcohol, ether, and water; 40 parts of boiling rectified spirit take up only 1 part of calumbine. Its best solvent is acetic acid; it is also soluble in acidulated and alkalized water. Neither nut-galls nor metallic salts affect its solution. Concentrated sulphuric acid dissolves it, and assumes first a yellow, and then a red colour. Its properties indicate that weak vinegar or sour wine I would be the best menstruum for extracting the medicinal virtues of calumba root. Dose. 1 to 3 gr. twice a day as a tonic and stomachic, in dyspepsia, debilitated stomach, bilious vomit- ing, &c.; and in the later periods of dysen- tery and diarrhoea. CALX. This term was formerly applied to the residuum of the combustion of any sub- stance; or to any substance which had been exposed to a strong heat. See Calcination, Lime, &c. GAMBOGE'. See Gamboge. CAM'EEA LU'CIDA. [L. and Eng.] When a ray of light (r) falls upon a quadrangular glass prism (a), it is bent by two reflections {sit c k d ), and thrown upwards where it may be received by the eye, to which it will appear described on the table or sheet of paper (/), placed to receive it. The point of a pencil used to trace any object on the paper can also be seen, and by its means the picture can be easily copied. When the prism is mounted on a stand, and a thin brass plate with a small hole through it for the eyepiece adjusted there- to, it forms the cameea lucida of the opti- cians. The image may be magnified or les- sened by placing a lens, so as either to inter- cept the rays before they strike the prism, or before they reach the eye. An ingeuiqus per-