127 ALUMINIUM. I slum. This inference was subsequently de- [ nionstrated by M. Wohler, who succeeded in ! obtaining it as a gray metallic powder (a, d. .1827); and later (1845), under the form of ’■globules exhibiting the leading characteristics I of the metal. (Ersted also, by an ingenious i process of his own, obtained, at even an earlier i date, buttons of aluminium having the lustre I of tin. In 1854, M. Dumas announced to the I ‘ Academy of Sciences,* that M. St. Clair IDeville had procured pure aluminium from j clay, and exhibited several specimens of con- siderable size and beauty. The result was a general impression that it might be easily obtained in any quantity, and ultimately at a reasonable price; expectations which have been i only partly, though to a great extent, fulfilled, owing to the expense and trouble of the process, notwithstanding recent improvements. The price in March, 1856, was upwards of £3 per oz., or about that of gold; at present, the price of ithe best commercial specimens is only 5s. to 5s. 4d., or about that of silver, and it is still de- creasing.^ Deville’s work—“ De V Aluminium,” was not published until 1859.* I Prep. 1. (M. Wohler; a.d. 1827-45.) Sesqui- chloride of aluminium is heated along with either potassium or sodium, as directed for the preparation of ‘ magnesium *; a platinum or iron tube, closed at one end, being employed. : The reduction takes place with such violence, ! that great caution is required on the part of I the operator to prevent disappointment or un- j pleasant consequences. The product consists I of very fine metallic scales, of a gray colour, I resembling platinum, which may be reduced ^to a bright button of aluminium by heating it strongly under a layer of the fused double chloride aluminium and sodium, hereafter noticed. 2. (M. Deville; a.d. 1854-59.)—a. A quan- tity of sesquichloride of aluminium, varying ifrom 200 to 300 grammes (say from 6 to 10 loz.), is introduced into a wide glass or por- I celain between two plugs of asbestos to retain it in position,^ and a current of hydrogen j. 1 (thoroughly dried by passing first through 'con- centrated sulphuric acid,* and then through a Itube containing ‘fused chloride of calcium*) ipassed over it; a gentle heat being at the isame time applied to the part of the tube con- taining the ‘chloride,* to drive off any free 'hydrochloric acid which might have been I formed by the action of the air upon it. A Fi. 01 os fnl n lis lij* ots- I Moderately pure samples are still, however, sold at b.. Is. id., aud even Is. 6iZ. the dr.; the price varying, not 30 much with the purity of the article, as the cupidity of the vendor. ‘i Many other names might he honourably mentioned here, did space permit it; particularly that of Bunsen, who, in 1854, discovered the metliod of obtaitiing nhiminium, in jmall reguline masses, by submitting the douhic chloride of iluminium and sodium or potassium, to electrolysis, in a used state; and those of Mr. Allan Dick, and Professor Rose, who first obtained the metal from kryolite. 3 Sometimes a ‘ boat* of porcelain, or even of copper, is jmployed instead of the asbestos; but when copper is used he product is always slightly contaminated with that netal. small porcelain ‘ boat,* containing sodium, is now introduced at the other extremity of the glass-tube, which is then again closed; and when the ‘sodium* is fused, the ‘chloride* is sufficiently heated to cause its vapour to come into free contact with it. A powerful reac- tion ensues, with the evolution of much heat, and this continues as long as any undecom- posed ‘ sodium * remains to act on the passing vapour. The mass in the ‘ boat,* which is now a mixture of the ‘ double chloride of aluminium and sodium,* in which small globules of the newly reduced metal are suspended, is allowed to cool in the ‘hydrogen;* after which it is treated with water, to remove the soluble ‘double chloride.* The residuum, consisting of small globules of aluminium, is lastly, reduced to a solid button or mass, by fusion, at a strong heat, under a layer of the fused double chloride of aluminium and sodium, or even of chloride of sodium (‘common salt*). b. (On the large scale.) Here two cast-iron cylinders are employed, instead of the ‘ glass* or ‘porcelain tube* just referred to; the an- terior one of which contains the sesquichloride of aluminium, and the posterior one a tray holding the sodium, of which 10 or 12 lb. are commonly operated on at once. These ‘ cylin- ders* are united by means of a smaller inter- mediate one, filled with clean scraps of iron, which serve to separate ‘iron,* free ‘hydro- chloric acid,* and ‘ chloride of sulphur,* from the vapour of the chloride of aluminium, as it passes through them. During the passage of the ‘vapour of the chloride* this smaller cylin- der, or tube, is kept heated to from 400° to 600°Fahr.; but the two other cylinders are only very gently heated, since the ‘chloride* is vola- tilised at a comparatively low temperature, and the reaction between it and the ‘fused sodium,’ when once commenced, usually gene- rates sufficient heat for the completion of the process. c. From double chloride of aluminium and sodium, 40 parts; chloride of sodium, 20 parts; fluor spar, 20 parts; ^ each separately dried, powdered, and then blended together; sodium, in small pieces, 7^ to 8 parts, being next added and equally distributed through the mixture, and the whole gently heated in a platinum or porcelain crucible under a layer of dry chloride of sodium, until the reaction is complete. The heat is, lastly, sufficiently raised to fuse the newly formed aluminium, and to cause it to separate from the mass, and to unite to form a reguline ‘ button.* 3. From kryolite®: — a. (Mr. Allan Dick.®) Sodium, in small pieces, is placed in alternate layers with powdered kryolite, and 4 It is said that kryolite may be advantageously substi- tuted for ‘fluor-spar’ in this process. See process 3 (inirii). 5 A native ‘double fluoride of aluminium and sodium,’ found, in abundance, in Greenland. It contains about 13% of aluminium. 6 It is strange that this application of the mineral kryolite was made by both these gentlemen, about the same time, and independently of each other.