I QUINQUINA—RAIN-GAUGE. 1161 j oviA. An alkaloid obtained from the lark |f Cinchona ovata, by a like process to that by ji^liich quinine is obtained from yellow bark, jt is identical with cixciiOYATiKE and ari- JNE. I QUIN'QUINA. See Cinchona. [ QUIN'SY. See Throat Affections. i QUINTES'SENCE. Syn. Quinta essentia, L A term invented by the alchemists to lepresent a concentrated alcoholic solution of (lie active principles of organic bodies. It is kill occasionally employed in perfumery and | [lie culinary art. See Essence, Tincture, I he. ! ! QUOTIDIAN. Occurring or returning daily. leeAGUE. I 1 RAB'BIT. The Lepus cuniculus (Linn.) of he Cuvian order Rodentia. The domestic abbit, when young, is a light and wholesome rticle of food, approaching in delicacy to the Dinmon barn-door fowl; but has less flavour lian the wild animal. The fat is among the simples' of the Ph. L. 1618. Its hair and j Un are made into cheap furs, gloves, hats, | :c. I EAC'AHOUT. Syn. Racahout des Arabes. j 'liis is said to be farina prepared from the ! corns of Quercus Ballota, or Barbary oak, dis- nised with a little flavouring. The following iTecommended as an imitation:—Roasted cacao |P chocolate nuts, 4 oz.; tapioca and potato \irina, of each, 6 oz.; white sugar, slightly lavoured with vanilla, ^ lb. Very nutritious. \sed as arrow-root. I EACE'MIC ACID. Syn. Paratartaric jciD. This compound was discovered by pstner, in 1820, replacing tartaric acid in |rape-juice of the Department of the Vosges, jor upwards of 30 years it was regarded as a puliar product of the grapes of that district id of the Upper Rhine; but it has since len found in the mother-liquors of the manu- cturers of tartaric acid residing in other lo- dities. The subject, at different times, has ^cupied the attention of the leading chemists ^ Europe. In 1850 the Society of Pharmacy ■ Paris offered a reward for its investigation; | id during the year of the Great Exhibition j 851) it was brought into the market, for the I'st time, by Mr. Simpson, the well-known anufacturing chemist. Racemic acid and Ytaric acid have exactly the same composi- on, and yield, when exposed to heat, the same j 'oducts; the racemates also corwspond in |ie closest manner with the tartrates. ) |apmic acid is rather less soluble than tar- j ric, and separates flrst from a solution con- j.ining the two acids. A solution of racemic •id precipitates a neutral salt of lime, which I not the case with tartaric acid. A solution racemic acid does not aflect a ray of polar- ed light, while a solution of tartaric acid 'tates the ray to the right. In 1849, Pasteur stated that racemic acid was a compound of two other acids, in equal proportions, one polarizing the rays of light to the right, and hence named dextro-racemic acid’ ; the other e.xhibiting left-handed polari- zation, and called ‘ levo-racemic acid.’ By adding a neutral solution of racemate of soda to a like solution of racemate of ammonia, and allowing the solution to crystallize very slowly, two varieties of polyhedrons crystals are ob- tained, and may be distinguished by their form, namely, as the image and the reflection of the image, or as right-handed and left- handed, like an ordinary daguerrotype and its subject. These crystals are separated by care- ful inspection, and, on being separately con- verted into lead- or baryta-salts, and decom- position by sulphuric acid, yield crystalline acids wdiich are identical in every respect ex- cept their deportment wdth polarized light, their degree of solubility in cold water, and the peculiarity of their crystals, just referred to as occurring in their salts. According to the best authorities, dextro-racemic acid is nothing but common tartaric acid. At a later period, Pasteur made the important discovery that racemic acid may be artificially produced by the action of heat upon certain compounds of tartaric acid wdiich are capable of resisting a high temperature. See Tartaric Acid. RACKING. See Cider and Wines. RADTCLE. Syn. Radical. In chemistry, the base or distinguishing part of a comjiound. It may be either simj)le or comjiound. Thus, sulphur phosphorus (elementary substances) are the radides of the acids which bear their names ; and acetyl and ethyl (carbo-hydrogens), of the acetyl- and ethyl-compounds or series. “ By ‘ compound radicles’ are understood those molecular groupings, whether or not insoluble, whicli have been, or which may be, transferred from one compound to another in exchange for one or more atoms of hydrogen or of its representatives.” (Odling.) RADTSH. The common garden radish (raphanus, L.) is the root of Raphanus sa- tivus (Linn.), one of the Cruciferce. There are several varieties. They are all slightly diu- retic and laxative, and possess considerable powder in exciting the appetite. The seed is pressed for its oil. The horseradish (ar- MORACIA, L.), belongs to a distinct genus. (See page 733.) RAIN-GAUGE. Syn. Ombrometer, Plu- YIAMETER, UDOMETER. An instrument for determining the quantity of w’ater, which fidls as rain, at any given place. A simple and convenient rain-gauge for agricultural pur- poses is formed of a wdde-mouthed funnel, or open receiver, connected with a glass tube furnished with a stop-cock. The diameter of the tube may be exactly 1-lOOth that of the receiver, and if the tube be graduated into inches and tenths, the quantity of rain that falls may be easily read off to the 1-1000th of an inch. The instrument should be set in some perfectly open situation ; and, for agri- i