737 HYDROCHLORIC ACID. chloride of tin be afterwards added. It does not decolour a solution of sulphate of indigo. Sp. gr. 1'16. 100 gr. are saturated by 132 gr. of crystallized carbonate of soda.” (Ph. L.) Sulphuretted hydrogen transmitted through it, does not produce a yellow or brown colour. Commercial hydrochloric acid generally contains iron and sulphuric acid, and fre- quently free chlorine. The first may be de- tected by the precipitate it forms when the acid is supersaturated by ammonia; the second, by giving a white precipitate with chloride of calcium or of barium, or with the nitrate of lime or baryta; the third, by the power the acid possesses of dissolving gold leaf and decolouring solution of indigo. Uses. Hydrochloric acid is used for various purposes in the arts, in chemistry, and in medicine. It is refrigerant, tonic, and anti- septic, in small doses diluted with water; but corrosive -and poisonous in larger doses, and when undiluted. Dose. 10 to 20 drops, in a sufficient quantity of any bland diluent; in stomach complaints, typhus fever, syphilitic affections, worms, scroRila, &c. It is also used in gargles and lotions. Ant. Magnesia, or bicarbonate of soda, mixed with water; or milk, white of eggs, and demulcents of any kind. Chalk is to be avoided on account of the deleterious effects of chloride of calcium. Tests. The liquid acid\s, detected by—1. Its volatility;—2. By giving white fumes when a glass rod dipped in liquor of ammonia is held near it;—3. By giving with nitrate of silver a ivhite cloudy precipitate, which is in- soluble in nitric acid, freely soluble in liquor of ammonia, and blackened by exposure to the light. The tests for the salts of hydro- chloric acid are described under Chloride. Esiim. The strength of liquid hydrochloric acid is usually estimated from its specific gravity; but it may be more correctly ascer- tained by the pow'er it possesses of saturating the bases. In general, a good approximation may be found to the per-centage of real muriatic acid in any liquid sample, by multi- plying the decimal figures of the sp. gr. by 200.” (Ure.) See Acidimetry. Concludiny remarks. We have already stated that the hydrochloric acid of commerce is now chiefly obtained from the manufacturers of carbonate of soda, who procure it as a secondary product. For chemical and pharma- ceutical purposes, this can only be used after purification. When hydrochloric acid is di- rectly prepared from sea salt, an iron cylin- drical boiler, set in brickwork over an open fire, furnished with a stone-ware head, and connected with a scries of capacious double- necked stone-ware bottles, usually constitutes the distillatory and condensing apparatus. Iho arrangement resembles that employed in the preparation of liquor oe ammonia.^ For this, and similar operations, on the small scale, ^ Sec page 153. the little apparatus recommended by Fownes will be found to answer admirably. (See enyr.) a. Large glass flask, fitted with a cork, through which pass— b. Glass tube funnel for introducing acid, having a bulb blown in one portion, wliich, with the double bend of the tube, forms a kind of safety-valve; and c. Delivery tube, which conveys the gas by d. A tube open at both ends, into e. A wash-bottle. /. A bent tube connecting e with g. Receiver, containing tlie water to be saturated. li. A chauffer containing red-hot charcoal. i. Brick support. The simple wash-bottle (e) shown in the enyr. will be found an exceedingly useful con- trivance in a great number of chemical opera- tions. It serves in the present, and in many similar cases, to retain any liquid or solid matter mechanically carried over with the gas, and it may be always employed when gas of any kind is to be passed through water or a chemical solution. The open tube (d) dipping into the liquid prevents the possi- bility of absorption, by which a partial vacuum would be occasioned, and the liquid of the second vessel lost by being driven into the first. The formula of the Ph. L. 1836 is defective in ordering too little acid, by which means the XH’O^HCt becomes contaminated with a portion of sulphuric acid, and the residuum of the process is rendered so hard and insoluble as to prevent its removal from the retort by ordinary means. It is, therefore, better to use a larger quantity of acid than is there ordered. The products of the other formulae are pure liquid hydrochloric acid, provided the materials employed are quite free from foreign admixture. The commercial acid may be purified by diluting it with an equal weight