281 BATH. negative. It has been recommended in chronic I rheiTinatism, scirrhous tumours, &c. Electro-chemTcal Bath (of Hr. Caplin). This . is founded on the supposition that all diseases arise from the presence of mineral, or other jj extraneous morbific matter, in some organ, or 11 the whole organism, and which is capable of tj removal by electrolysis. The patient is placed ill an appropriately arranged voltaic bath, and I there “saturated with the electric ( — ? vol- ' taic) fluid.” This “decomposes everything • vhich is foreign to the organism, the vital ! })arts being protected by the law of conser- vation belonging to every organic production.” I These foreign substances are said to be thus [ carried out of the system by the electric cur- I rent, and to be fixed and plated on the copper ' in the same way, and according to the same law and principle (only reversed), as in the j process of electro-plating.”^ Fec'ula Bath. Syn. BAL'NErM am'yli, B. f.ec'fl,!:, L. Potato-starch or wheat-starch, ' 1 to 4 lb.; boiling water, q. s. to dissolve. lie- , sembles the bean-bath.^ i Ferru'ginous Bath. Syn. Chaltb'eate bath ; I Bat/neum eeeehgin'etjm, B. chalybea'ttjm, L. Green sulphate of iron, 1 to 2 lb. A well- tinned copper, wooden, or japanned bath, may j be used. In general debility when chaly- i beates are indicated, and the stomach will not bear iron; also in piles and prolapsus. The stains on the towels used to wipe the patient, i may be removed by at once soaking them in ! water acidulated with hydrochloric acid.^ 2. (loduretted.) See Bath oe Iodide of , Iron. Foot Bath. Syn. PEDiLTJ'TirM, L. Warm, i (or hot.) Kevulsive, counter-irritant j in colds, j )uenstrual and hsemorrhoidal suppressions, i rheumatism, stiflfness of the ankles, tender I feet, &c. A little common salt, flour of mus- 1 tard, or sal-ammoniac, is often added to render it more stimulant, to prevent ‘ taking cold,’ &c. See Feet, &c. Gelat'inous Bath. Syn. Bal'nehm aELATi- NO'SUM, B. gelatin'ii, L. Gelatine or fine Salisbury glue, 3 or 4 lb. ; dissolved in boiling water, 2 gal., or q. s.; and added to a warm bath. At the ‘ Hospital for Cutaneous Dis- eases ’ 8 lb. of patent size is used for a bath of 30 to 35 gal. Emollient; formerly, but erro- neously, considered nutritive. Used in skin diseases; generally combined with sulphur.- See Baeeges Bath. Glyc'erine Bath (glis'-). Syn. BAL'NErM GLYCEEIN'II, B. a. COMPOS'ITEM, L. Gly- cerine, 2 lb.’, gum arabic (dissolved), 1 lb. Used as a soothing emollient, in itching, dryness, irritation, and hardness of the skin, &c. Where expense is an object, 3 or 4 lb. of good honey, and 1 oz. of salt of tartar, form an excellent substitute iov the glycerine.^ See Glyceeine. ^ “ Hist. Records of the Electro-chem. Bath,’' tv Mons. J F. J. Caplin, M.D. Bailli^re, 1860. * See i). 275, 278, &c. (ant6). Hemlock Bath. Syn. Bal'neijm co'nii, L. 1. Dried hemlock-leaves (or herb), 4 to 6 hand- fuls j water, 1 gal.; infuse 2 hours, and strain. The part to be immersed in, or bathed with, the warm infusion, observing not to apply it, if the skin is unsound; or it may be added to the water of a bath in the usual manner. In gout, cancer, chronic rheumatism, and certain skin diseases.'-* 2. (Cut. Hosp.) Extract of hemlock, 2 oz.; starch, 1 lb.; boiling water, 1 gall.; dissolve. For a bath of about 30 gal. As the last. Hip Bath. Syn. Coxajle'yiem, L. Usually warm ; sometimes fully warm, or somewhat hot. In inflammatory, spasmodic, and chronic affections of the abdominal and pelvic viscera ; in suppressed and painful menstruation, hae- morrhoids, strangury, prolapsus, ischuria, &c.; also as a substitute for a full bath, when this last is contra-indicated by some affection of the lungs, heart, brain, or great vessels. Like full baths, it may be often advantageously me- dicated. See Bidet. Hot Bath. Syn. Bal'neem cal'idem, Cal- da"eiem, L. ; Bain chaed, Fr. Usual tem- perature, 98° to 106° Fahr. The hot bath has a remarkably tranquillising effect upon the nervous system, producing a. strong tendency to quietude and sleep. It also acts as a powerful antispasmodic, and by determining the blood to the surface of the body, tends to relieve visceral inflammation and congestion. In chronic affections arising from the action of cold and damp and from exhausted energy, in stiff joints, rheumatism, neuralgia, diarrhoea, and numerous other affec- tions, its effects are often rapid and remarkable. At higher temperatures it strongly stimulates the arterial system, and arouses nervous energy and vital action, producing excessive excite- ment and turgescence, followed by copious perspiration, which has been often found suc- cessful in cholera, paralysis, &c. If the im- mersion be too long continued, or the bath be injudiciously employed, lassitude, debility, and somnolency ensue, and the good effect of the bath is more or less lost. In these cases violent throbbing and painful distension of the vessels of the head, with a distressing feeling of suffocation and anxiety, are premonitory symptoms of impending apoplexy, an accident which sometimes, though seldom, follows its improper use.^ Hydrochlo”rate of Ammonia Bath. See Chloeide of Ammoniem Bath.