APPENDIX. Rhubarb—Rheum. “ From Chinese Thibet and Tartary.” (See page 1172.) Rose Petals. 1. Cabbage-eose Petals— Rosa Centifolia). “ The fresh petals, fully expanded.” (See 1175.) 2. (Red-eose Petals—Rosa Gallica.) *‘The unexpanded petals, fresh and dried; from plants cultivated in Britain.” See Feench Rose {page 1175). Saffron—Ceocus. The stigma and part of the style, dried; imported from Spain, France, and Naples.” (See page 1179.) Salt—SoDii Chloeidhm. See page 1212. Sandal Wood. See Red Sandal Wood {above). Santonica—Santonica. “ The unexpanded flower-buds of an undetermined species of Artemisia. Imported from Russia.” SeeWoEM Seed {page 1352). Santonin—Santoninhm. Santonica, bruised, 1 lb. ; slaked lime, 5 oz.; distilled water, 1 gall.; boil for an hour in a copper or tinned- iron vessel, strain through cloth, and express strongly; boil residue with more water and lime (I gall, and 2 oz.), and strain, as before. Mix the liquors, let them settle, and decant the fluid from the deposit and evaporate down to 2| pints. Render the hot liquor slightly and permanently acid by the addition of hydrochloric acid, with diligent stirring, and set it aside for 5 days. Then skim off any oily matter, and, having decanted the greater part of the fluid from the precipitate, collect the latter on a paper filter, and wash first with cold distilled water as long as the washings are coloured, then with solution of ammonia, fl. oz., diluted with distilled water, 5 fl. oz., and, lastly, with cold distilled water, till the wash- ings pass colourless. Press the filter contain- ing precipitate between folds of filtering paper, and dry it with a gentle heat; then scrape off the precipitate, mix it with purified animal charcoal, 60 gr., and digest with rectified spirit, 9 fl. oz., for half an hour, boiling afterwards for 10 minutes. Filter while hot, wash the char- coal with 1 fl. oz. of spirit, and set the filtrate aside in a dark place to crystallize. Separate the mother-liquor, and concentrate it, to obtain a second crop of crystals. Drain the crystals, redissolve them in boiling spirit, 4 fl. oz., and recrystallize. Lastly, dry the crystals on fil- tering paper in the dark, and preserve them in a bottle protected from light. This principle is said to possess remarkable anthelmintic properties. Dose. “4 to 6 gr., for children, followed by a brisk cathartic.” (Squire.) (See page 1184.) Sarsaparilla (Jamaica)—Saesa. See page 1185. Sassafras—Sassafeas. See page 1186. Savin—Sabina. “Collected in spring.” (See page 1187.) Scammony—Sc ammonium. The gum-resin. (See page 1188.) Scammony Root—Scammoni.® Radix. “The 1383 dried root; from Syria.” A new officinal drug, possessing strong cathartic properties. Senega—Senega. See page 1192. Senna. 1. (Alexandrian; Senna Alexan- DEiNA.) Now referred to Cassia lanceolata and C. obovata. 2. (Tinnivelly; Senna Indica.) Now re- ferred to Cassia elongata. (See page 1192.) Serpentary—Seepentaeia. “ The dried root” of Aristolochia Serpentaria ; “ from the southern parts of North America.” {Seepage 1193.) Sherry — Vinum Xeeicum. “A Spanish wine,” containing about 17 or 18§ of alcohol. Silver. The pure metal, under the name of ‘refined silver,’ is placed in the Appendix, being employed in the preparation of the fol- lowing medicinal articles Niteate of Silvee (Aegenti Niteas). From refined silver, 3 oz. ; nitric acid, If fl. oz.; distilled water, 5 fl. oz.; by the Ph. D. formula) (1 and 2—page 1199), slightly modi- fied. To obtain the salt in rods, the crystals are to be fused. Oxide of Silvee (Aegenti Oxtdum). From nitrate of silver, in crystals, ^ oz. ; so- lution of lime, 3^ pints; distilled water, 10 fl. oz. Proceed as ordered by Ph. D. (Peot- oxiDE OF Silvee—3,—page 1200). Soap. Two varieties are included, as here- tofore, viz.— Haed Soap (Sapo dueus). From olive oil and soda. Often called ‘ Castile soap.’ Soft Soap (Sapo mollis). From olive oil and potash. Soda. This base is represented by the hy- drate (caustic soda) and several salts, of which seven are classed as medicines. Acetate OF Soda. In Appendix only. No, process. Aeseniate of Soda (Sod^ Aesenias). Arsenious acid, 10 oz.; nitrate of soda, 8^ oz.; dried carbonate of soda, 5^ oz.; powder separately, mix thoroughly in a porcelain mor- tar, then fuse in a large clay crucible (covered), by a full red heat, till effervescence ceases; pour the fused salt on a clean flagstone, and, as soon as it solidifies, and while it is still warm, dissolve it in boiling distilled water, 35 fl. oz.; filter the solution through paper, and let it crystallize. Drain the crystals, dry them rapidly on filtering paper, and enclose them in stoppered bottles. A new preparation. Biboeate of Soda. See Borax {above). Bicaebonate of Soda (Sod^ Bicaebonas). Prepared by passing carbonic acid through a mixture of carbonate of soda, 2 lb., and dried carbonate of soda, 3 lb., as iu the process for making bicarbonate of potash. When the gas ceases to be absorbed, the damp salt which is formed is agitated with half its weight of cold distilled water, and the uudis- solved portion, having been drained, is dried by exposure on filtering paper. (See page 1210.) Caebonate of Soda. 1. (Sod.® Caebonas.) In Mat. Med, No process. (See page 1208.)