PALMITIC ACID—PAPER. 1028 surface of metallic palladium, and then evapo- rated by the heat of a spirit lamp, leaves a Mack sj)ot. By the last two tests palladium is readily distinguished from platinum. Uses. It has been employed to form the scales of mathematical and astronomical in- struments. Its alloy with silver is a very valuable white metal. Chlo"rides of Palladium. Of these there are two:— 1. Protochloride of Palladium. From a solu- tion of the metal in aqua regia, evaporated to dryness. Prop,, A dark brown, semi-crystalline mass, soluble in water; at a temperature above 212° it loses its combined water, and becomes black; with the chlorides of potassium and ammonium, it forms double salts (ammonio- CHLORIDE OF PALLADIUM, POTASSIO-CHLORIDE OF p.), which have a brownish-yellow colour, and are more soluble than the corresponding salts of platinum. 2. Bichloride of Palladium. By digesting the protochloride in aqua regia. Prop., fyc. It cannot be obtained in a sepa- rate form, as it suffers decomposition during the evaporation; the solution has an intense brown colour; by adding an equivalent pro- portion of chloride of potassium or sal ammo- niac, a red crystalline precipitate (potassio- BICHLOEIDE Or AMMONIO-BICHLOEIDE OF PAL- LADIUM) is formed, which is very sparingly soluble in water. Ox'ides of Palladium. Two oxides of palla- dium are noticed by chemical writers :— 1. Protoxide of Palladium. Prep. This is precipitated as a brown htdeate by adding an alkaline carbonate, in excess, to a solution of any of the salts of palladium. This pre- cipitate, when heated to redness, is converted into the anhydrous black protoxide. It forms salts with the acids. 2. Binoxide of Palladium. Obtained by treating solid bichloride of palladium and po- tassium with a solution of potassa, in excess, and heating the mixture to 212°. Prop., S(c. Yellowish-brown, before being heated; black afterwards. It usually retains a little alkali and water in combination. Both the above oxides form red or reddish-yellow salts with the acids. SuTphuret of Palladium. Syn. Sulphide of PALLADIEM. This is prepared by either fusing together 4 parts of sulphur with 13 parts of palladium, or by passing a stream of sul- phuretted hydrogen through a solution of the protochloride. PALMITTC ACID. Prepared from palmitin by saponification, as STEARIC ACID is prepared from STEARIN. It forms pearly scales, and melts at 140° Fahr., like margaric acid, which it closely resembles. PAL'MITIIT. The solid portion of palm oil, purified by crystallization from hot ether. White; soluble in ether and slightly so in hot alcohol; melts at 118° Fahr.; by saponifica- tion, it is converted into PALMITIC ACID. (See above.) PALPITA'TION. Syn. Palpus, Palpitatio CORDIS, L. A violent and irregular beating or action of the heart, either temporary or occasional. When it does not arise from sud- den or violent agitation or distress of mind, it may be regarded as a symptom of a disturb- ance of the nervous functions by disease, in which case attention should be directed to the removal of the primary affection. PAL'SY. See Paralysis. PAKACE'A. A term formerly applied to those remedies which were supposed to be caj)able of curing all diseases, and still applied to some quack medicines. PAHA'DA. See Bread Jelly {j)age 805). PAN'ARY FERMENTA'TION. The vinous fermentation as developed in the dough of bread. PAN'CAKES. These are essentially fried batter, variously enriched and flavoured, ac- cording to the taste of the cook. When they contain fruit, fish, meat, or poultry, or are highly seasoned or ornamented, they are com- monly called FRITTERS. Prep. (M. Soyer.) Break 2 to 4 eggs into a basin, add 4 small table-spoonfuls of fiour, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, and a little salt; beat the whole well together, adding, by degrees, I pint of milk, or a little more or less, depend- ing on the size of the eggs and the quality of the flour, so as to form a rather thick batter; next add a little ginger, cinnamon, or any other flavour at will; lastly, put them into the pan, and when set, and one side brownish, lay hold of the frying-pan at the extremity of the han- dle, give it a sudden but slight jerk upwards, and the cake will turn over on the other side; when this is brown, dish up with sifted sugar, and serve with lemon. See Fritters. PANIFICA'TION. The changes which occur in flour-dough under the influence of the fer- mentative process and heat, by w’hich it is converted into bread. PAPA'VERIKE. Syn. Papaveeina. An alkaloid discovered by Merck in OPIUM. It crystallizes in needles; is insoluble in water; is slightly soluble in cold alcohol, and in ethtr; and forms crystallizable salts with the acids which possess little solubility. The hydro- chlorate, one of the most characteristic of these compounds, crystallizes in beautiful colourless prisms, which possess a high re- fractive power, and are only very slightly soluble in dilute hydrochloric acid. PA'PEB. Syn. Charta, Papyrus, L.; Papier, Fr. The limits of this work preclude the introduction of a description of the manu- facture of this well-known and most useful article, which is now almost exclusively made by machinery of an elaborate and most inge- nious description. We must, therefore, con- tent ourselves with a short notice of a few of the preparations of the manufactured article. (See below.)