804 JALAPIC ACID—JAPANNING. tained, from winch, in a few hours, a brown viscid resin separates. These last two cha- racteristics distinguish it from other resins. Oha. Earthenware or well-tinned copper vessels must’alone be used in the above pro- cesses, as contact with copper or iron turns the resin black, and this tinge can only he re- moved by redissolving the resin in alcohol, the addition of animal charcoal, and re-evapo- ration. Jalap resin is an energetic cathartic. Dose. 1 to 5 gr. See Jalapin. Factf'tious Resin of Jalap. Syn. Resina JALAP.® PACTITIA, L. A substance frequently sold for jalap resin is made by fusing a mixture of pale yellow resin and scammony resin, and adding, when it has cooled a little, but still semi-fluid, a few drops of balsam of Peru or tolu; the mixture is then poured into small paper capsules or tin moulds. Its effects re- semble those of jalap resin, but it inflames less. (Landerer.) Soap of Jalap. Syn. Sapo jalapjs, Sapo JALAPINTJS, L. Prep. (Ph. Bor.) Resin of jalap and Castile soap, of each, 1 part; recti- fied spirit, 2 parts, or q. s. to dissolve the in- gredients softened by a gentle heat; subse- quently evaporate the mixture by the heat of a water bath until reduced to 4| oz., or it has acquired the consistence of a pill-mass. Prop., 8fC. A grayish-brown mass, soluble in rectifled spirit. Said to be milder in its action than the resin alone. Dose. 5 to 15 gr. JALAPTC ACID. Syn. Odorotjs peinciple OP JALAP—Pereira. Prep. Add an alcoholic solution of acetate of lead to a similar solution of jalap resin, collect the precipitate (jala- pate OP lead), and throw down the lead by means of sulphuretted hydrogen. (See Absin- THIC Acid.) A brownish, soft, greasy sub- stance, smelling strongly of jalap, soluble in alcohol, and alkali, and slightly so in ether. Jalap resin contains about 13g of this sub- stance. JAL'APIN. Syn. Jalapina. Jalap resin is commonly.sold under this name, but pure jala- pin is prepared by one or other of the follow- ing formulae :— Prep. 1. The liquid Altered from the jala- pate of lead in preparing jalapic acid is a so- lution of ACETATE OP JALAPIN, which after any trace of lead is removed, by adding a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid, and filtration, yields the whole of its jalapin, as a precipi- tate, on the addition of 5 or 6 times its volume of water; this is collected, washed with a little cold distilled water, and dried by expo- sure to a current of warm dry air. 2. (Hume.) Coarsely powdered jalap is digested in strong acetic acid for 14 days, the tincture Altered, ammonia added in ex- cess, and the whole agitated strongly; the mixture is then Altered, the deposit washed in cold water, redissolved in acetic acid, re- precipitated by ammonia, and again washed and dried. 3. (Kayser.) Pwxe, jalap resin, in powder, is digested for some time in boiling ether, by which means the jalapic acid is removed, and pure jalapin remains undissolved. Prop., &(c. A transparent, colourless, scent- less, insipid resin, very soluble in alcohol, but insoluble in ether. It is the active purgative principle of crude jalap resin. JAMAI'CINE. Syn. Jamaicina. A pecu- liar alkaloid obtained by Huttenschmidt from the bark of the Cabbage-tree {Andira inermis). Prep. The aqueous solution of cabbage-tree baric, treated with sulphuretted hydrogen and evaporated. Prop. Yellow crystals soluble in water and, to a limited extent, in alcohol; fusible, and very bitter tasted. It forms salts with the acids, which, in small doses, produce restless- ness and trembling; and in larger ones, purging. It is said to be vermifuge. JAMES’S POW'DER. See Powdees. JAMS. Syn. Peeseeves. Conserves of fruit with sugar, prepared by boiling. In the latter respect they differ from the conserves of the apothecary. Prep. The pulped or bruised fruit is boiled along with ^ to | of its weight of loaf sugar, until the mixture jellies, when a little is placed on a cold plate; the semi-fluid mass is then passed through a coarse hair-sieve whilst hot, to remove the stones and skins of the fruit, and as soon as it has cooled a little is poured into pots or glasses. It is usual to tie these over, when cold, with paper which has been dipped in brandy. The pots must then be placed aside in a dry and rather cold situa- tion. I The following fruits are those from which | jams are commonly prepared :—Apricots, cher- \\ ries (various), cranberries, currants (black, red, and white), gooseberries (ripe and green), mul- berries, Orleans plums, raspberries, and straw- berries. Red currants are commonly added to | the last, to remove insipidity. JAPAN'. See Vaenish, and below. JAPAN'NING. The art of covering paper, wood, or metal, with a coating of hard, bril- liant, and durable varnish. The varnishes or laquers employed for this purpose in Japan, China, and the Indian Archipelago, are resin- ous juices derived from various trees belong- ing to the natural order Anacardiacece, espe- cially Stagmaria vernicifiua, Holigarna longi- folia, Semecarpus Anacardium, and species of Rhus (Sumach). For use, they are purifled by defecation and straining, and are afterwards mixed with a little oil, and with colouring matter, as required. In this country var- nishes of amber, asphaltum, or copal, or mix- tures of them, pass under the names of ‘ japan’ and ‘ JAPAN VAENISH.’ j Proc. The surface is coloured or painted with j devices, &c., as desired, next covered with a highly transparent varnish (amber or copal), then dried at a high temperature (135® to 165 Fahr.), and, lastly, polished. Wood and paper