FATTY ACIDS—FEATHERS. 632 "by simple pressure or else by boiling. Two kinds of vegetable fat, namely, palm-oil and COCOA-NUT OIL, are extensively employed in the useful arts. All fats are lighter than water. They are all soluble in ether^ benzole, and turpentine, and may be mixed with each other in any proportion. In former times the fats of many animals were employed in pharmacy, but at present those principally used are laed and suet. In perfumery, in addition to these, beep MAEKOW and beae’s geease are employed. For both these purposes the crude material is cut into small pieces, and freed as much as possible from all extraneous membranes; after which it is placed in a boiler with water, and heated until it is completely fused, when the whole is strained, and allowed to cool very slowly. By this means a cake of cleansed fat is obtained, which may be readily sepa- rated from any adhering water. Fats and the iat oils are best preserved by being run into glazed jars, and secluded from the action of the air. A little benzoic acid or gnm-benzoin, dissolved in them by heat, will generally prevent, and in all cases greatly defer, the accession of rancidity. We intro- duced this method into the laboratory in our early days of manipulation, and ourselves, and others to whom we have made it known, have since employed it with undeviating advantage in the manufacture of ceeates, ointments, and other preparations containing.matter or the fixed oils. It has been shown by Dr. Griesler that nilric ether, and its alcoholic solution, act in the same manner. A few drops are not only sufficient to prevent ran- cidity, but, it is said, will even destroy the disagreeable odour of rancid fat. When heated to remove the alcohol, they imme- diately become bright, clear, and scentless. See Oil, Glyceein, Olein, Palmitin, Steaein, Tallow, &c., also below. FAT'TY ACTDS. In chemistry, compounds having acid properties derived from the various fats and oils. These acids are supposed to exist in the natural fats combined with a base called * GLYCEEYL.^ When fats are ‘ saponi- fied ’ by an alkali, the steaeic, palmitic, and oleic acids unite with the alkali, forsaking the glyceryl, and form respectively stearate, palmiiate, and oleate of potassa or soda, as the case may be. On decomposing either of these compounds with sulphuric acid a sul- phate of the alkali is formed, and the fatty acid is set free. Some of the fatty acids, as STEAEIC, CEEOTIC, PALMITIC, and LAUEIC, are solid atordinary temperatures; others,as oleic, are liquid. The hard fatty acids are exten- sively u-<ed as candle materials, being supe.iur in every respect to the natural fats I'rom which they are derived. FATTENING. Until comparatively a recent date, the plan used to fatten domestic ani- mals was to prevent their taking exercise, and to gorge them with food. The excessive fat produced by these means was, however, found to be far from wholesome, and was less deli- cate than that arising in the natural way. This system was therefore gradually aban- doned in favour of the present one, whi(;h consists in supplying the animal with abun- dance of wholesome food, and with the means of taking exercise, as far as the disposition or feelings dictate. Hence the farmers “ in the most enlightened districts, such as Berwick- shire, East Lothian, &c., instead of tying up their fastening cattle in stables like horses, and placing their food before them, put two or thi’ee together in small yards with sheds 1 attached, in which they can run about, eat when they choose, and take shelter from the ' t rain, or cold, or the sun, at pleasure, under the open shed. Swine are treated in the same manner, and also seeing lambs that are fat- tened for the market. Poultey are no longer kept in coops and crammed, or eabbits in hutches; but the former are allowed to take exercise in fields sown with various herbs, and the latter are kept in a species of artificial warren, where tliey can take exercise by bur- rowing.” (Loudon.) FEAR. Although fear is a depressing and de- bilitating emotion, and sometimes acts prejudi- cially on the health, it frequently acts as a cura- tive or preventive of disease. It is a well-known fact that females who are the most faint-hearted and desponding during the period of their sex’s trial, generally experience a more rapid convalescence than those who are more confi- dent and resolute. During the raging of an epidemic fear generally induces temperance, | cleanliness, and the adoption of other precau- I tions w'hich tend powerfully to prevent dis- I ease. Boerhaave, according to Pereira, is said i to have prevented the occurrence of epileptic attacks (brought on by the sight of a person jj r falling down in a fit in the sight of the hospital i patients), by directing a red-hot iron to be applied to the person who should next be affected. FEATHERS. Ostrich feathers are those most esteemed as articles of personal decora- tion, and goose feathers for beds ; but the fea- thers of other birds are commonly used for both purposes. Feathers are peepaeed eoe oenamental PUEPOSES by scouring them with white soap- and-water (1 oz. to the pint), used hot; they are next well rinsed in several successive por- tions of pure water, and after being drained and shaken, are, lastly, passed through water slightly blued with pure indigo, and dried out of the dust. When dry, the ribs are generally rubbed with a piece of glass, having a curved notch in it, fur the purpose of increasing their pliancy, and the filaments are cueled by drawing them between the edge of a blunt knife and the ball of the thumb of the hand which holds it. Feathers are bleached either by exposure