1118 POTASSA. heat into oxygen gas and iodide of potassiam. ' It has been recommended in bronchocele. , Dose. 1 to 5 gr. Mu"riate of Potassa. See Chlokide of I Potassium. | Ni'trate of Potassa. Syn. Xitre, Salt- i PETEEj POTASSiE NITEAS (Pll. L. E. & D.), | NiTEUMf, Sal nitei’I, Sal peteasI, Kali j ]S'iTEATUMf> L. This salt is produced natu- j rally in the soil, by the action of the atmo- j sphere, and crystallizes upon its surface, in j various parts of the world, especially in the i East Indies. On the Continent it has long i been produced artificially, by exposing a mioc-1 hire of calcareous soil and animal matter to the atmosphere, when nitrate of lime is slowly | formed, and is extracted by lixiviation. The I liquid is then decomposed by the addition of | wood ashes, or carbonate of potash, by which : carbonate of lime is precipitated, and nitrate ■ of potassa remains in solution. The places ' where these operations are performed are' called ^nitriaries,’ or ‘nitrieres artificielles.’ The | British market is wholly supplied from India. i The salt of the first crystallization, by either ■ process, is called ‘ crude nitre’ or ‘ rough ! SALTPETRE.’ This is purified by solution in * boiling water, skimming, and, after a short time | allowed for defecation, straining (while still | hot) into wooden crystallizing vessels. The | crystals thus obtained are called ‘ single re- j FINED nitre ;’ and when the process is re- peated, ‘ DOUBLE REFINED NITRE.’ For medicinal use, nitre is purified as fol- j lowsi 1. (PoTASSiE NITRAS PURUM—Ph. D.) Com- mercial nitre, 4 lb.; boiling distilled water, 1 quart; dissolve, withdraw the heat, and stir the solution constantly as it cools j the minute crystals, thus obtained, are to be drained, and washed, in a glass or earthenware percolator, with cold distilled water, until that which trickles through ceases to give a precipitate with a solution of nitrate of silver; the con- tents of the percolator are then to be wuth- drawn, and dried in an oven. 2. (P. N. DEPUEATUM—Ph. Hann. N. 1831.) Dissolve commercial nitre in twice its weight Q? water, add a solution of carbonate of potassa as long as a precipitate forms, filter the liquid, evaporate, and crystallize. The potassas nitras ruEiFiCATA of the old Pharmacopoeias was prepared in a similar manner, but without the addition of the carbonate. Prop. White, pellucid, six-sided prisms; per- manent in the air; soluble in 7 parts of water at G0° and in 1 part at 212° Fahr.; insoluble in alcohol; its taste is cool, saline, and slightly bitter and pungent; at about 560° it fuses to an oily-looking mass, which concretes on cooling, forming ‘ sal prunella’ ; at a red heat it gives out oxygen, and, afterwards, nitrous fumes; sp. gr. 1‘925 to 1‘975. Pur. Commercial nitre generally contains chlorides, sulphates, or calcareous salts. The first may be detected by its solution giving a cloudy wdiite precipitate with nitrate of silver, —the second, by chloride of calcium or barium giving a white precipitate,—and the third, by oxalate of “ammonia, which also gives a white precipitate. “ Ci’ystals.” From 100 gr., di- gested in sulphuric acid, are prepared 86 gr. of sulphate of potassa, dried at a red heat.” (Ph. L.) Assay. Of the numerous methods prescribed for this purpose, few are sufiiciently simple for mere practical men. The proportion of chlorides, sulphates, and calcareous salts, may be determined as above; and the general richness of the sample by the method of Gay- Lussac, modified as follows :—100 gr. of the sample (fairly chosen) are triturated with 50 gr. of lampblack and 400 gr. of common salt, and the mixture placed in an h'on ladle, and ignited or fused therein, due care being taken to prevent loss; the residuum is exhausted w'ith hot water, and the solution thus obtained tested by the usual methods of alkalimetry for carbonate of potash. The quantity of carbonate of potassa found, multiplied by 2T25 or 2'g, gives the per-centage richness of the sample in NITRATE OF POTASSA. Uses, 8fc. Nitre is chiefly employed in the manufacture of gunpowder, fireworks, and nitric acid. It is also used in medicine as a sedative, refrigerant, and diaphoretic, and as a cooling diuretic. It has been recommended In active haemorrhages (especially spitting of blood), in various febrile affections, in scurvy, and in herpetic eruptions; and it has been highly extolled, by Dr. Basham, as a remedy in acute rheumatism. Dose. 5 to 15 grs.,, every 2 hours. A small piece, dissolved; slowly in the mouth, frequently stops a soreB throat at the commencement. In laipe doses, it is poisonous. The best treatment is a pow- erful emetic, followed by ojiiates. See Sal Prunella. Ni'trite of Potassa. Syn. Potass.® nitkis, L. Prep. 1. By heating nitre to redness, dissolving the fused mass in a little water, and adding twice the volume of the solution in alcohol; after a few hours the upper stratum of liquid is decanted, and the lower one, separated from the crystals, evaporated to dryness. 2. (Corenwinder.) Nitric acid, 10 parts, are poured on starch, 1 part, and the evolved gas passed through a solution of caustic potassa of the sp. gr. 1‘380, to saturation; the liquid is then either neutralized with a little liquor oj potassa (if necessary), and kept in the liquid form, or at once evaporated. Ox'alates of Potassa. Three of these salts are known:— 1. Keutral Oxalate of Potassa. Syn. Po- tassa: OXALAS, L. Prep. Neutralize a so/wOon of oxalic acid, or the acid oxalates of commerce, with carbonate of potassa, evaporate, and crys- tallize. Transparent rhombic prisms, soluble in 3 parts of water. 2. Binox'alate of Potassa. Syn, Supek- t 1 I