OZONOMETER—PAINTING. 1025 i tart of pure sulphuric acid, and 12 parts of mler (both absolutely free from organic sub- tances), at as low a temperature as possible. I’he gas evolved at the + electrode is pow- irfully ozonized. b. As the last, but employing a mixed solu- \ion of chromic and sulphuric acid. The evolved as is now so highly ozonized that even vul- ianized India-rubber tubes are perforated by |; in a few minutes. (Baumert.) ! Prop., Sfc. The odour of ozone is often per- jeived after a flash of lightning, and in the eighbourhood of an electrical machine in a 'bate of extreme activity. The general cha- jacters of ozone are those of an oxidizing agent, t peroxidizes many of the metals at ordinary smperatures, decolorizes indigo, converts hosphorous into phosphoric acid, separates odine from iodide of potassium, transforms lost of the protosalts into persalts, the yellow jito the red prussiate of potassa, sulphuret of pad into sulphate, &c. It corrodes organic patter very rapidly, and for this reason caout- ,houc connectors are not adapted for any ap- jaratus used in ozone experiments. There can je no doubt that this remarkable principle [lays an important part in the economy of jature. Schbnbein regards ozone as perma- ently negative oxygen. He also believes in he existence of a permanently positive oxygen, r ANTOZONE. which at present is only known 1 combination; and considers that ordinary lactive oxygen is a product of the union of antozone’ and ‘ ozone.^ The most charac- sristic property of ozone is that of Immedi- tely decomposing iodide of potassium with I'beration of iodine. See below. i OZONOM'ETER. This name has been given p paper prepared with a mixed solution of larch and iodide of potassium. It is white, ut is turned blue by ozonized aie, when xposed to it in a slightly moistened state, 'his test is sufficiently delicate to detect the resence of ozone in atmospheric air. PACKTONG. Sign. Pakeono, Chinese 'HITE COPPEE. An alloy formed by fusing igether, in a covered crucible, arsenic, 2 parts, ad cojjper clippings, 4^ to 5 parts, arranged in Iternate layers, and covered with a capping f common salt. The product contains about 0|5 of arsenic. Prop., Sfc. White, slightly ductile, and per- lanent at ordinary temperatures; at a tempe- ature below that of redness it suffers decompo- ition, with the extrication of fumes of arse- lious acid. Formerly much used for the scales f thermometers and other instruments, dial •kites, candlesticks, &c. It is now almost su- •erseded by the alloy of nickel and copper ailed Geeman silvee, to which the name is Iso applied by some recent writers. PACKING. As there is considerable art in >acking brittle, hollow-ware, as glass, china, kc., n such a way that it will stand exposure to the jolting, blows, and agitation of land car- riage, it is better, when it is of much value, or in quantity, to employ a person qualified for the job. A man, accustomed to packing such articles, may be readily procured at any glass- works, or china warehouse, for a trifling con- sideration. When this cannot be done, it must be recollected that the great secret of safe packing consists in the articles being carefully preserved from undue pressure or contact with each other, yet so firmly arranged, and so sur- rounded with some material, as hay, straw, sawdust, &c., that they cannot be shaken into such a condition by the ordinary contingencies of transport. Loose packing must always be avoided. PAD’DING. Amongst calico printers this term is applied to the operation of impreg- nating the pores of their cloth with a mordant. It is now almost exclusively performed by means of a simple piece of machinery (pad- ding machine), which essentially consists of —a ‘ large reel,’ around which the unprepared cloth is wound—a ‘ guide-roller,’ over which it passes to smooth and adjust it before entering the liquor—a copper cylinder, or ‘ dip-roller,’ nearly at the bottom of the ^ mordant-trough,’ under which it is carried from the guide- roller—a half-round polished ‘ stretcher-bar,’ to give it equal tension—a pair of ‘padded cy- linders’ to remove superfluous moisture—and, lastly, a ‘reel’ to receive the mordanted (‘ padded’) cloth. The degree of tension is re- gulated by a weight suspended on a lever, and motion is given to the whole by an end- less band from the driving shaft. This ma- chine is also applicable to many of the opera- tions of dyeing, bleaching, and starching textile fabrics. PAINT'ER’S CREAM. Prep. Take of pale nut oil, 6 oz.; mastic, 1 oz.; dissolve, add of sugar of lead, oz., previously ground in the least possible quantity of oil; then further add of water, q. s., gradually, until it acquires the consistence of cream, working it well all the time. Used by painters to cover their work when they are obliged to leave it for some time. It may be washed olf with a sponge and water. PAINTTNG. The art or employment of laying on colour. In the fine arts, the pro- duction of a picture or a resemblance in colours on a flat surface. The artistic and me- chanical consideration of this subject does not come within the province of our volume; but notices of the leading materials employed by both artists and house painters are given under the respective names. See the various pig- ments, CoLOHES, Oils, Yaenishes, &c., and below. Distem'per Painting. A method of painting generally adopted by the ancients. Water was the principal ‘ medium,’ but various gela- tinous and albuminous ‘ binders’ were added to fix the pigments. Of these the most im- portant were glue, size, and white of egg. In 65 I