1194 SHELL-FISH—SHOW BOTTLES. SHELL-FISH. The common name for the Crustacean and Molluscous animals that are used for food. 'Shell-fish^ are extremely liable to disturb the functions of the stomach and bowels. The oyster {Ostrea edulis), and the COCKLE (Cardium edule), are, perhaps, the least objectionable. The crab {Cancer pa- gurus), the CRAYFISH {Astacus fluvialis), the LOBSTER {Homarus vulgaris), the MHSSEL {My- tilus edulis), the prawn {Palcemon serratus), the PERIWINKLE {Littorina littorea), and the SHRIMP (Crangon vulgaris), with the exception of the claws of the first three, are always sus- picious, particularly in hot weather, and often absolutely poisonous. We have seen the most alarming, nay, fatal symptoms, follow the use of mussels, even amongst those habitually accustomed to take them ; whilst it is a well- known fact that the luscious body of the crab and lobster have too often formed the last supper of the epicure. See Oysters, &c. SHELL-LAC. See Lac. SHELLS (Prepared). Syn. Test^ pr^pa- rat^ (Ph. L. 1836), L. Prep. (Ph. L. 1836.) Wash oyster-shells (ostr^—Ph.L.) with boiling water, having previously freed them from extra- neous matters; then prepare them in the manner directed for chalk. The product is similar in con- stitution and properties to prepared chalk. SHEE'BET. [Pers.] A cooling drink, used in the East, prepared with the juices of fruit, and water, variously sweetened and favoured. The word has been, of late years, commonly employed in these countries in a similar manner. See Lemonade, Orangeade, and Powders. SHER'RY. Syn. Sherry wine, Sherris; ViNUM Xericdm (Ph. L.), ViNUM album (Ph. E.), ViNUM ALBUM HiSPANICUM (Ph. D.), L. This is the only wine ordered in the British Pharmacopoeias. See Wines. SHERRY-COBBLER. Prep. (Redwood.) Half fill a tumbler with clean pounded ice; add a table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, a few thin slices of lemon with the peel (or some strawberries or other similar fruit, bruised), and a wine-glassful or more of sherry wine ; mix them together (lightly), and, as the ice melts, suck the liquor through a straw (or a small tube of silver or glass). Obs. A favourite American drink; very refreshing in hot weather. SHIN"GLES. Syn. Zoster, Herpes zos- ter, Herpes zona, L. A local variety of herpes or tetter, remarkable for forming a kind of belt round or partly round some part of the trunk of the body, chiefly the waist or abdomen. See Tetters. SHOT METAL. Prep. From lead, 1000 parts; arsenic, 3 parts. When the lead is coarse, 6 to 8 parts of metallic arsenic are required to fit it for this purpose. SHOW BOTTLES. The large ornamental carboys and jars filled with coloured liquids, and displayed in the shop-windows of druggists, may be noticed under this head. They are striking objects when the solutions they coi| tain are bright and of a deep pure tint, espi! cially at night, when they are seen by tran mitted light. The following formulae for tl solutions have been recommended by differei persons:— Amber. From dragon’s blood (in coan powder), 1 part; oil of vitriol, 4 parts; diges and, when the solution is complete, dilute tl mixture with distilled or soft water, q. s. Blue.—a. From blue vitriol, 2 oz.; oil i| vitriol, ^ oz.; water, 1 pint.—b. A solution ( indigo in sulphuric acid, diluted with wate q. s.—c. A solution of soluble Prussian blue i; either oxalic or hydrochloric acid, slight: diluted, and afterwards further diluted wit water to the proper shade of colour. Crimson.—a. From alkanet root, 1 oz.; v of turpentine, 1 pint. Used chiefly for tli bull’s-eyes of lamps.—b. As pink {b), below. Green.—a. From sulphate of copper, 2 oz bichromate of potash, 1 dr., or q. s.; water, pint.—b. A solution of sulphate of coppt 2 oz.; chloride of sodium, 4 oz.; water, 1 pii: or q. s.—c. A solution of distilled verdigris acetic acid, diluted with water, q. s.—d. Dii solve blue vitriol in water, and add nitric at until it turns green. Lilac.—a. Dissolve crude oxide of cobc (zaffre) in riitric or hydrochloric acid, add S( quicarbonate of ammonia, in excess, and, afte! wards, sufficient ammonio-sulphate of copp to strike the colour.—b. As the purple, b more diluted. Magenta. Acetate of rosaniline, dissolv in water, q. s. Olive. Dissolve sulphate of iron and oil vitriol, equal weights, in water, and add nitrate of copper, q. s. to strike the colour. Orange.—a. A solution of bichromate potash in water, either with or without t addition of some hydrochloric or sulphuric ac —b. Dissolve gamboge or annotta in liquor potassa; dilute with water, and add a lit spirit. Pink.—a. To a solution of chloride or trate of cobalt, in water, add sesquicarbonate ammonia, q. s. to dissolve the precipitate first formed.—b. From madder (washed wi; cold water), 1 oz.; sesquicarbonate of ammon 4 oz.; water, 3 pints; digest, with agitatb for 24 hours, then dilute with more wat and filter. Purple.—a. A solution of sulphate of d' per, 1 oz., in water, 1 quart, or q. s., with t addition of sesquicarbonate of ammonia, li —b. To the last, add a sufficient quantity the first pink (above) to turn the colour.- To an infusion of logwood, add carbonate of o monia or of potassa, q. s.—d. Sugar of le 3 oz.; powdered cochineal, 1 dr.; water, q —e. Add sulphate of indigo, nearly neutrali: with chalk, to an inf usion of cochineal, till turns purple. Red.—a. Dissolve carmine in liquor of r monia, and dilute with water.—b. Digest/;<•