I’HOSPHOVINIC ACID—PHOTOMETRY. 1060 them to drink. It has the advantage of re- taining its efficacy for many years, and is less dangerous to human beings than compositions containing arsenic, whilst it is even more effec- tive for the purpose for which it is employed. Some persons recommend the addition of a little oil of rhodium or oil of aniseed. See Rats, &c. PHOSPHOVIN'IC ACID. Syn. Phosphe- THYLic ACID. A bibasic acid containing the elements of ether. Prep. A mixture of strong alcohol and syrupy phosphoric acid, equal parts, are ex- posed to a temperature of 180^ Fahr.; after 24 hours, the whole is diluted with water, and neutralized with carbonate of baryta-, the filtered liquid, by evaporation at a gentle heat, yields crystals of phosphotinate of EARYTA, under the form of brilliant hexagonal plates; these are redissolved in cold icater, the solution is precipitated with dilute sidphuric acid (carefully avoiding excess), and the fil- tered liquid evaporated in vacuo to the con- sistence of a syrup. Prop., 4*c. Colourless; intensely sour; so- luble in water, alcohol, and ether; easily decom- posed by heat. Its salts are the phosphoyi- NATES; those of the alkalies, magnesia, and strontia, are freely solublein water; those of lime, silver, and lead, only slightly so. According to Vogeli, a second acid is formed along with the phosphovinic by the action of syrupy phosphoric acid on alcohol, to which he has given the name of phospho-biethylic acid. PHOS'PHURET. Syn. Phosphide ; Phos- PHERETHM, Phosphidum, L. A compound of phosphorus with a base. See the respective Metals, &c. PHOSPHURET'TED HY'DROGEN. See Hy- DROGEN. PHOTOG'RAHY. Syn. Heliography. The art of producing images on prepared surfaces by means of the actinic or chemical rays of the sun’s light. The principal photographic processes now in use are the positiye-, nega- tive-, and DRY-COLLODION processes, in each of which a thin film or skin of iodized collo- dion forms the sensitive surface, a plate of glass being generally used as the founda- tion of the film. In a positive picture the ‘ lights’ are silvery white by reflected light, and the ‘ shades’ are produced by a ‘ backing’ of black varnish or velvet, showing through the glass plate. In a negative picture the ‘ lights’ are of a dirty yellow or brown by reflection, and, being formed by opaque deposits, appear dense black by transmitted light. Negatives are used in the various paper-printing pro- cesses ; they are placed upon prepared paper and exposed to direct light, which darkens those parts of the paper not protected by the opaque ‘ lights,’ and thus produces positive prints with natural lights and shades. In this way the portrait ‘ cartes de visite’ and other paper photographs arc formed. The advan- tages of the ^ dry-collodion process’ are, that the plates, when ‘ sensitized’ will keep for am length of time, and may be ‘ developed’ several days after taking the picture. The principal paper processes are the Talbotype, or calo- TYPE, invented in 1839 by Mr. Fox Talbot: the ordinary ALBEMEN process, in which pun white of egg is used to give a glossy surface to the paper; and the waxed paper process in which the paper is waxed before beinj; sensitized. The Dageerreotype process discovered by M. Daguerre in 1839, has beei almost entirely superseded by the easier healthier, and less expensive collodion process I It consists in submitting a plate of silver oi. I silvered copper to the vapour of iodine an( I bromine in the dark. A sensitive film o I iodide and bromide of silver is thus formed oi the plate, which is immediately exposed t( the image of an object in the camera obsceka The latent image impressed on the plate i brought out or developed by exposing tlr plate to the action of the vapour of mercury. The art of photography cannot be adequateh expounded in a work like the present, and wi; must refer our readers for practical direction to one of the many special treatises on tli subject which have been written. The worl which is adopted as a handbook by nios photographers is the compact and comprehen sive ‘Manual of Photographic Chemistry,’ b; F. Hardwich (Churchill), of which no fewe than seven editions have been issued. Se Camera Obscera, Collodion, &c. PHOTOM'ETRY. The art of determinin; the relative intensities of different light? Various methods have been adopted, at differen times, for this purpose, among which, how ever, a few only are sufficiently simple fo) general application. The principle adopte, by Bouguer and Lambert depends on the fac that, though the eye cannot judge correctly t the proportional force of different lights, i can, generally, distinguish with great precisio when two similar surfaces or objects presente together are equally illuminated, or when tb shadows of an opaque object produced b different lights are equally dark. Now, \ light travels in straight lines, and is equall diffused, it is evident that its intensity wi progressively lessen as the distance of b source increases. This diminution is found 1 be in the duplicate ratio of the distance. I apply this principle to candles, lamps, gx lights, &c., we have only to arrange two ( them so that the light or shadow resulting froi both shall be of equal intensity, after which w must carefully measure the distance of eac of them from the surface on which the ligl or shadow falls. The squares of these distant give their relative intensity. In general, son known light, as that from a wax candle (4 t the lb.), is taken as the standard of compariso Dr. Ritchie’s ‘photometer’ consists of rectangular box, about 2 inches square, opt at both ends, and blackened inside to absoi extraneous light. In this, inclined at angl