815 LABORATORY—LACTIC ACID. glass by means of hydrofluoric acid, or be I written with incorrodible ink. See Etching } and Ink. j LAB'ORATORY. Syn. Laboeatoeittm, L. A place fitted up for the performance of expe- I riinental or manufacturing operations in che- ' mistry, pharmacy, and pyrotechny. For full in- , formation respecting the best mode of fitting i up a chemical laboratory, the reader is referred to works specially devoted to chemical mani- j pulation.^ Almost any well-lighted spare room may be fitted up as a small laboratory at very , little expense. The gas-furnaces and im- I proved lamps introduced within the last few j years have to a certain extent rendered che- ! mists independent of brick furnaces. A strong working bench, fitted with drawers and cup- I boards, and having gas-pipes at intervals for I attaching different kinds of jets, is an indis- I pensable fixture. A close cupboard or closet, which is connected by a pipe with the chimney or the external air, is required to receive ves- I sels emitting corrosive or evil-smelling va- j pours; the door of this closet should be of I glass. A sink, with a copious supply of water, , must be at hand, for washing apparatus. A stoneware barrel, with a tap of the same mate- rial, is required for holding distilled water. Shelves, supports for apparatus, and drawers, 1 should be provided in abundance. The fine 1 balances and other delicate instruments should I be kept in a separate apartment. With regard I to apparatus, we may state that the articles most frequently required in a laboratory are the gas or alcohol lamps; iron pans for sand I bath and water bath ; evaporating dishes; pre- I cipitating jars, funnels, and wash-bottles; re- I torts, flasks, and test-tubes; mortars and I pestles; retort- and filtering-stands; rat- j tail and triangular files, and glass rod and I tubing. 1 The principal philosophical - instrument- [ makers sell chests or cabinets filled with ! apparatus and chemicals, under the name of ' ‘POETABLE LABOEATOEIES.* Those Sold by Mr. J. J. Griffin and by Messrs. Jackson and j Townson are, perhaps, the most complete. They i are w^ell adapted for illustrating all the more : valuable facts of chemical science, and per- I forming all the ordinary operations of quali- tative analysis. I LAC. Syn. Lacca,L. A resinous substance ' combined with much colouring matter, pro- ! duced by the puncture of the female of a small : insect, called the Coccus lacca or flcus, upon j the young branches of several tropical trees, I especially the Ficics Indica, Ficus religiose, and I Croton lacciferum. The crude resinous exuda- , tion constitutes the stick-lac of commerce. I SnELL-LAC or SHELLAC is prepared by spread- : ing the resin into thin plates after being i melted and strained. Seed-lac is the residue , ^ The latest and best work is the “ Handbook of Chemi- ^ ' cal Manipulation," by Greville Williatns. Faraday’s j famous work on the same subject has long been out of | I print. ; obtained after dissolving out most of the colouring matter contained in the resin. Shell-lac is the kind most commonly em- ployed in the arts. The palest is the best, and is known a? ‘ orange-lac.’ The darker varieties —* liver-coloured,’ *ruby,’ 'garnet,’ &c.—re- spectively diminish in value in proportion to the depth of their colour. Uses, 8fc. Lac was formerly much used in medicine; but its action, if any, could only have been that of a very mild astringent. It is now chiefly used in dentifeices, vae- NISHES, LACQUEES, and SEALING-WAX. Bleached Lac. Syn. White lac ; Lacca ALBA, L. By dissolving lac in a boiling lye of pearlash or caustic potassa, filtering and passing chlorine through the solution until all the lac is precipitated; this is collected, w'ell washed and pulled in hot water, and, finally, twisted into sticks, and thrown into cold water to harden. Used to make pale varnishes and the more delicate coloured sealing-wax. LAC DYE. Syn. Lac, Lac-lake, Indian cochineal, a colouring substance used to dye scarlet, imported from India. Prep. By dissolving out the colour of ground stick-lac by means of a weak alkaline solution, and then precipitating it along with alumina by adding a solution of alum. Obs. To prepare the lac for dyeing, it is ground and mixed with diluted ‘ lac spirit,’ and the whole allowed to stand for about a week. The ‘ cloth’ is first mordanted with a mixture of tartar and ‘lac spirit’ and afterwards kept near the boil for three quarters of an hour, in a bath formed by adding a proportion of the prepared lac dye to the mixture used for mor- danting. Lac dye is only applicable to woollen and silk. The colours ityieldsaresimilar tothose obtained from cochineal, but less brilliant. LAC SPIRIT. See Tin Moedants. LAC'Q,UER. A solution of shell-lac in alcohol, tinged with saffron, annotta, aloes, or other colouring substances. It is applied to wood and metals to impart a golden colour See Vaenish. LACTALBU'MEN. See Caseine. LAC'TAMIDE. A compound of lactide ammonia. It is colourless, soluble, and crys- tallizable. LAC'TATE. Syn. Lactas, L. A salt of lactic acid. The lactates are characterised by yielding an enormous quantity of perfectly pure carbonic oxide gas when heated with 5 or 6 parts of oil of vitriol. Most of these salts may be directly formed by the solution of the hydrated oxide or carbonate of the base in the dilute acid. LACTA'TION. See Infancy, Nhesing, &c. LAC'TIC ACID. Syn. Acid of milk; Acidum LACTicuM, L. A sour, syrupy liquid, I discovered by Scheele in whey. It is also I found in some other animal fluids, and in several vegetable juices, especially in that of j beet-root. Prep. 1. Dissolve lactate of baryta in water.