DUNGING-DYE-STUFFS. 535 j directed to the removal of the deafness on j wliieh the imperfection rests. The exertions I of modern philantropists have, liowever, been i so far successful in such cases, as to enable the deaf-mute to converse with those around him by signs. Those interested in the subject may consult an admirable treatise on ‘ Deaf-dumb- ness’ by M. E. Hubert-Valleroux, of which an I excellent translation appeared in the ‘ Medical j Circular,^ vol. ii, for 1853. See Deafness. j DUNGING. Syn. Cleansing. One of the j principal processes in the arts of calico printing I and dyeing, its object being to free the cloth ' from loose matters which would interfere with I the ‘ dyeing.' After the thickened mordants j have been applied to the fabric, and properly I fixed, it is necessary to remove the now use- less thickening matter, together with the ex- j cess of mordant, which has not come into I actual contact with the cloth. Formerly, a I bath formed of cow dung, diffused through hot , water (130° to 212° Fahr.) was always used to wash away these loose matters; but now I various manufactured substances are success- I fully employed for the purpose. The best i ‘dung substitutes’ are the arsenite and arse- , niate of soda, the silicate of soda, phosphate I of lime. Experience proves that, in the case j of these substitutes, a final wince in cow-dung I before dyeing is advantageous. A process ; very similar to ‘ dunging’ is employed after I dyeing, to clear and give purity to the undyed i parts. This subsequent process is distinguished [ by the term ‘ cleaeing.’ Cow-dung has been ' used in ‘ clearing’ operations, but its employ- ment is not to be recommended. Bran scalded j and mixed with w-ater is employed for certain I goods, but bleaching-powder is the most gene- I rally used ‘ clearing agent.’ ' \ DUTCH LIQ'UID. See Olefiant Gas. DYETNG. The act of tinging or colouring i 'absorbent materials, by impregnating them I with solutions of colouring matters or ‘dye- i stuffs.’ The colouring matters which impart ! their tints without the intervention of other I substances are called ‘ substantive coloues’ ; i while those which require such aid are called I ‘adjective coloues.' The bodies employed I to fix and develop the latter class are called ‘ MOEDANTS.’ The exact way in which dye- I stuffs act upon fibrous materials has not yet I been investigated as fully as it deserves; the ! generally received opinion is that the fibre has a chemical affinity for the colouring matter in the case of ‘ substantive’ dyes, and likewise for the ‘ mordant,’ which, in its turn, has an affinity for the colouring matter of ‘adjec- tive’ dyes. Another opinion is that the fibres have pores, which, when expanded by heat or chemical agents, admit particles of colouring matter. However this may be, it is certain that different materials ‘take’ dyes in different proportions; thus, silk and wool take the coal-tar dyes in the most perfect manner, but cotton requires the intervention of a most powerful mineral or animal ‘ mordant.’ Wool takes the colouring matters of most dye-stuffs so well that the deepest tints can readily be produced. Silk and cotton are dyed with greater difficulty, whilst linen shows still less disposition to take dyes. The operations which take place in dyeing are * mordanting,’ ‘ ageing’ ‘dunging’ ‘ dyeing,’ and ‘clearing.’ The first of these operations is noticed under Moedant. After the fabric has been ‘ mordanted,’ it is generally hung up in a room through which a current of steam and air is passing, by means of which the union between the fibre and the mordant is quickened very considerably. This exposure to moist air is the step in the process to which the term * ageing’ is applied. The operations of ‘dunging’ and ‘clearing’ are noticed above (see Dunging). The ‘dyeing’ proper, which follows the ‘dunging’ is effected by running the fabric through the solution of the dye-stuff, the colour being modified more or less by the nature of the mordant used. Under the names of the different colours the means used to dye such colours are minutely described. See Black Dye, Blue Dye, &c. The following particulars respecting the production of the more common colours may prove interesting to the reader who merely requires some general infoi'mation on the sub- ject :— Black is usually produced by logwood or galls with an iron mordant. Common black silks are dyed with logwood and fustic, iron being used as a mordant. The best silks are dyed black on a blue ground. Woollen goods are first dyed blue with indigo, and afterwards with sumac, logwood, and green or blue cop- peras. Cotton and linen goods are dyed black in a very similar manner. Blue is commonly produced from indigo, either in the form of sulphate or in aqueous solution. Prussian blue, with a persalt of iron or tin as a mordant, gives a very splendid dark blue. Of late several blues of novel shades have been produced from coal-tar. Red is obtained in various shades by using cochineal, safflower, lac-dye, madder, or logwood, with a tin mordant. PUEPLE. Until the last few years the dyer was dependent for his purples on orchil or cudbear, but he has now at his disposal the magnificent series of aniline, or coal-tar, colours, ranging from the most delicate violet, or ‘ mauve,’ to the full crimson-purple, known as ‘ magenta.’ See Pueple Dye. Yellow. The most important yellow dyes are made from quercitron, fustic, turmeric, arnotto, and French and Persian berries. For further information, see Bleaching, Calico- PEINTING, &c. DYER’S SPIRITS. See Tin Moedants. DYES. See Dyeing, and the names of the principal colours. DYE-STUFFS. The colouring materials used in dyeing are so called. The more im- portant of them are 'noticed under the re- spective names.