QUININE AND COD-LIVER OIL—QUINOIDINE. 1159 l ij the article intended to be used whenever ',\phate^ or ‘disulphate’ of quinine^ or even ‘ dnine’ is ordered for medicinal purposes, u(3ss the name is qualified by some other t(Q. It is a most valuable stomachic^ in d|?s of i to 1 gr.; as a tonic, 1 to 3 gr.; a i as a febrifuge, 2 to 20 gr. ulpho-tar'trate of Quinine. Syn, Quin^ sIpho-taeteas, L. Prep. From sulphate Ojquinine, 4 parts; tartaric acid, 5 parts; drilled water, 20 parts; mix, gently evaporate fij-ryness, and powder the residuum. lan'nate of Quinine. Syn. Qtjin^ tannas, Li Prep. Dissolve sulphate of quinine in »i\tly acidulated water, and add a solution of Uhic acid as long as a precipitate forms; w|h this with a little cold water, and dry it. T’ Ph. Graeca orders infusion of galls to be u‘l as the precipitant. In intermittent Djralgia. lar'trate of Quinine. Syn. Qijinje taeteas, L Prep. (P. Cod.) From tartaric acid and qnne, as the acetate. I ale"rianate of Quinine. Syn. Quin^ ya- L lANAS (Ph. D.), L. Prep. 1. As the A TATE or CITEATE. . (Ph. D.) Valerianate of soda, 124 gr.; dilled water, 2 fl. oz.; dissolve; also dissolve krochlorate of quinine, 7 dr., in distilled u er, 14 fi. oz.; next heat each solution to I ® {not higher), mix them, and set the vessel A e for 24 hours; lastly, press the mass of cjfials thus obtained, and dry them, without II application of artificial heat. \*rop., 8fc. Silky needles and prisms; its B'lition suffers decomposition when heated D|ph above 120° Fahr. It is powerfully anti- sj'nnodic, antiperiodic, and nervine. Bose. ir., every two hours, or 1 to 3 gr., twice or t ice daily; in epilepsy, hemicrania, hysteria, » ralgia, and other nervous affections. lUININE AND COD-LIVER OIL. Syn. (p-LIVEE OIL WITH QUININE, QUINIAEETTED C (-LIVEE OIL; OlEUM MOEEHU^ CUM QUIN A, ( SUM JECOEIS ASELLI CUM QUINA, L. This li licine is a solution of pure anhydrous quin- i in pure cod-liver oil. ^rep. 1. Pure quinine (preferably recently I cipitated) is fused in a glass or porcelain csule by the heat of an oil or sand bath, c efully applied, by which it assumes a brown our and the appearance of a resin; it is t n allowed to cool out of contact with the B after which it is reduced to powder in a t mortar, and added to pure pale Newfound- Id cod-liver oil, gently heated in a closed ^Iss vessel over a water bath; the solution of t alkaloid is promoted by constant agitation, c I, when complete, the vessel, still corked, is s aside in a dark situation to cool; when the ‘ liniaretted oil' is quite cold, it is put into 1 ties, in the usual manner, and preserved, J much as possible, from the light and air. The anhydrous quinine is dissolved in a 1 le anhydrous ether before adding it to the ( which in this case need not be heated, as the union is effected by simple agitation; should this not take place, it may be gently warmed for a few minutes. 3. The anhydrous quinine is dissolved in anhydrous alcohol, and after being added to the oil, the w'hole is gently heated, in an open vessel, by the heat of a water bath, until the alcohol expelled; agitation, &c., being had recourse to, as in No. 1. Prop. 8fc. The above preparation resembles ordinary cod-liver oil, except in having a pale yellowish colour, and a slightly bitter taste, similar to that of cinchona bark. It is said to possess all the properties of cod-liver oil com- bined with those peculiar to quinine, b^ which the tonic, stomachic, and antiperiodic qualities of the latter are associated, in one remedy, with the genial, supporting, and alterative action of the other. The common strength is 2 gr. of quinine per oz. QUININE AND I'RON. These two import- ant medicinal agents are combined together in various ways. The following compound salts are often prescribed. Cit'rate of Quinine and Iron. Syn. Citeate OE lEON AND QUININE; FeEEI ET QUINiB CI- TEAS, L. Prep. (Ph. U. S.) Triturate sul- phate of quinine, 1 oz., with distilled water, 6 fi. oz,, and having added sufficient diluted sul- phuric acid to dissolve it, cautiously pour into the solution water of ammonia with constant stirring, until in slight excess. Wash the pre- cipitated quinine on a filter, and having added solution of citrate of iron, 10 fi. oz., keep the whole at a temperature of 120° by means of a water bath, and stir constantly until the alka- loid is dissolved. Lastly, evaporate the solu- tion to the consistence of a syrup, and spread it on plates of glass, so that, on drying, the salt may be obtained in scales. Obs. The composition of this article is 5 gr. of citrate of iron to 1 gr. of citrate of quinine. Bose. 2 gr. to 5 gr. See also Quinio-citeate OE Ieon {page 798). I'odide of Quinine and Iron. Syn. Quin,e ET EEEEi lODiDUM, L. Prep. From protio- dide of iron, 2 ‘parts; hydriodate of quinine, 1 part; rectified spirit, 12 parts; heat them together, and either evaporate to dryness or crystallize by refrigeration. A powder, or crystalline scales. Sul'phate of Quinine and Iron. Syn. Feeeo- SULPIIATE OE QUININE; QUIN,E EEEEO-SUL- PHAS, QUINJE ET EEEEI SULPHAS, L. Prep. From solutions of the sulphates of iron and quinine, in atomic proportions, mixed whilst hot, and the crystals which form as the liquid cools carefully dried and preserved from the air. QUININE AND MER'CURY. See Chloeide OE Meecuey and Quinine {page 902). QUINOIDTNE. Syn. Amoephous qui- nine, Chinoidine ; Quina amoepha, Quina INEOEMIS, QUINOIDIA, QuiNOIDINA, QuiNOI- DiNUM, CniNOiDEUM, L. This is a product of the alteration of the crystallizable ciri-