CANDLESTICKS—CANDYING. 389 In the process of dipping,’’ the dipping ^ cistern” being filled with tallow of a proper t temperature from the boiler, one of the » broaches covered with wicks is placed upon the t end of the “ dipping beam’’ and pressed down ( gently into the melted fat; it is then with- drawn, the bottoms of the candles just touched I against a board placed on one side of the cistern for the purpose, and the frame re- moved to the rack. This operation is repeated until the candles acquire a sufficient size, when they are finally cooled, sorted, weighed, ! and strung in pounds for sale. The moidd candles once in common use were made of the finer kinds of tallow only; a mixture of 3 parts of sheep, with 1 part of ' ox suet, being preferred. See Wax. CAN'DLESTICKS. Metallic, earthenware, and porcelain candlesticks, snuffers, and snuffer- stands, are recommended to be cleaned by pouring boiling hot water on them (previously 1 placed in an earthen pan), and, after wiping them quite dry with a cloth, to clean them with a piece of wash leather; those made of silver, or of plated copper, may be finally polished with a little plate powder; those of j white metal, with a little whiting or fine chalk, and those of brass, with a little rotten-stone or one of the polishing pastes. For articles of ! this kind, made of bronze and papier mache, i the water should be used only hot enough to I melt the tallow, and they should be only gently j dabbed or rubbed off with a very soft cloth or ( leather. The common practice of placing j candlesticks before the fire to melt off the I grease is injudicious, as the solder or japan about them is almost certain to be injured. Hence the common annoyance of damaged or “ crippled ” candlesticks in houses where there j are careless servants. CAN'DYING. When the object is simply to form a confection or sweetmeat, imbued with the aroma, flavour, or medicinal property of any substance, candies are generally prepared by simply boiling lump sugar with a sufficient quantity of the infusion, decoction, tincture, expressed juice, or sometimes even the powder of the particular article, until a portion taken out and cooled becomes quite solid, when it is either poured out on a marble slab, or into ! tin, marble, or paper moulds, dusted with I powdered lump sugar. i When the object is to preserve the form I and character of the vegetable in the candy, I the substance is boiled in water until soft, and then suspended in concentrated syrup (in the cold), until they become transparent; I after which they are either dried in a current ' of warm air, or in a stove, at a heat not ex- I ceeding 120° Fahr. The syrup must be kept fully saturated with sugar by reboiling it once or twice during the process. Another method occasionally employed by I confectioners for almonds and the like is to put the substances into a syrup boiled until it ; forms a small thread between the opening fingers, and to stir the whole until it is nearly set. See Sugar Boiling. The following are the principal candied articles kept at the shops :— Candied Al'monds. From blanched almonds, roasted and halved. Candied Angel'ica. Prep. 1. From the root. Boil the fresh roots (after slicing them and re- moving the pith) in water, to deprive them of part of their bitterness and aroma; then drain them and put them into syrup boiled to a full candy height, and boiling hot; let them remain until nearly cold, when they may be taken out and carefully dried. 2. From the stems. From the tender stems, stalks, and midribs of the leaves, as last. Used as a sweetmeat and dessert. It is said to be cordial, stomachic, tonic, and aphro- disiac. Candied A'pricots. From the fruit, scarcely ripe, either whole or cut into quarters, im- mersed in the syrup (hot), without any further preparation. Candied Cit'rons. From the peels. Candied Erin'go. From the roots, slit and washed. Candied Gin'ger. From the roots of green ginger. Candied Hore'hound. From a strong de- coction or infusion of the root, and lump sugar; 1 pint to 8 or 10 lb. may be used. Boil the mixture to a candy height, and pour it whilst warm into moulds or small paper cases well dusted with finely powdered lump sugar; or pour it on a dusted slab and cut it into squares. Candied Lem'on Peel. As candied citron. Candied Or'ange Flow'ers. From the flowers deprived of their cups, stamina, and pistils (2 oz. to each lb. of sugar), as candied almonds, but poured out on a slab. Candied Or'ange Peel. From the peel of the Seville orange, or common orange, as candied citron. In the Ph. Suecica, 1845, the “ white inner surface” is ordered to be removed, before suspending the peel in the syrup. The Ph. L. 1746, orders the ‘Afresh peel of Seville oranges.” Candied Su'gar. See Sugar Boiling. The following are articles of a more special character. Car'away Candy. 1. From caraway seeds (in fine powder), \ oz.; sugar, 1 lb. 2. Oil of caraway, 1 dr.; sugar, 1 lb. Diges'tive Candy. Syn. Live-long candy. Prep. 1. Rhubarb and bicarbonate of soda, of I each, 1 dr.; ginger, ^ dr.; cinnamon, 20 gr.; (all in fine powder;) heavy magnesia, 1 oz.; powdered sugar, 2 oz.; mucilage of tragacanth, q, s. to form a lozenge mass; to be divided into small squares of 18 or 20 gr. each. 2. As the last, but adding finely powdered caraways, 1 dr.; oil of caraway, 15 drops; and sugar, 1 oz. Both are used as heartburn and digestive lozenges. Gin'ger Candy. Prep. 1. From ginger (in coarse powder), 3 oz.; boiling water, 1^ pint;