1154 QUACK MEDICINES—QUINCE. of 7 parts of ether and 1 part of alcohol; whilst the product of 4, h, if prepared by 2 hours’ digestion instead of 1, is said to he even soluble in absolute alcohol. Ohs. General von Lenk has overcome all the difficulties which have hitherto prevented gun-cutton being used in place of gunpowder. By spinning the gun-cotton into thread or yarn, and weaving this into webs, he has suc- ceeded in making cartridges which will pro- duce the exact amount of force required. The time needed for the complete ignition of the cartridge can be diminished or increased at pleasure by varying the mechanical arrangement of the spun threads. Each gun and each kind of projectile requires a certain density of cartridge. In general, it is found that the proportion of 11 lbs. of gun-cotton occupying 1 cubic foot of space produces a greater foree than gunpowder of which from 50 to 60 Ihs. occupies the same space, and a force of the nature required for ordinary artillery. See Collodion and Xyloidin. QUACK MEDTCINES. See Patent Medi- cines, Ointment, Pills, &c. QUAD'RI-. See Nomenclatitre. QUAIL. The Coturnix vulgaris, a gallina- ceous bird, allied to the partridge, but of smaller size. Its flesh is highly esteemed by epicures. It is imported from Turkey, pre- served in oil; and from Italy, potted with clarifled butter. QUAR'TAN. Oceurring every fourth day. See Ague. QUART ACTION, The practice, among as- sayers, of alloying 1 part of gold with 3 parts of silver, before submitting it to the operation of ‘ parting’ ; in order that its particles maybe too far separated to protect the copper, lead, palladium, silver, or other metals, with which it is contaminated, from the solvent action of the nitric or sulphuric acid, as the case may be. See Assaying. QUARTZ. Pure native silica. It is an es- sential constituent of granite and many other rocks. Its crystalline, transparent varieties are known as rock crystal. See Glass, Powder, &c. QUASS. Syn. PoscA venalis, L. Prep. Mix rye-flour and warm water together, and keep the mixture by the fireside until it has turned sour. Used as vinegar in Russia. QUAS'SIA. Syn. Quassia (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. The “ wood of Pier vena {Picrasma) excelsa, Lindl.” (Ph. L.), or Jamaica quassia; and also of the “ Quassia amara, Linn.” (Ph. E.), or Surinam quassia. The latter is the original quassia, but it is no longer imported. Quassia is characterised by its intense bitterness. It is reputed tonic and stomachic, assisting diges- tion, and giving tone and vigour to the sys- tem. Its name was given to it by Linnaeus, in honour of a negro slave who had long em- ployed it as a remedy for the malignant en- demic fevers of Surinam. When sliced, forms the " quassia chips’ of the shops, is generally taken in the form of infusi This last, sweetened with sugar, forms a s and effective poison for flies. Dose. (In po der) 10 to 20 gr. Roasted quassia, reduced to powder, largely employed, instead of hops, to embit porter; and the unroasted powder is used the same purpose in the manufacture of \ bitter varieties of ale. QUAS'SIN. Syn. Quassite, Quassina. peculiar bitter principle, obtained by preci tating decoction of quassia with milk of lo evaporating the filtrate, dissolving the resic in a/coAo^, treating with animal charcoal, 2^9^ evaporating, dissolving in water, and cryst lizing. 8 lbs of quassia chips yield 1 dract QUEEN’S BLUE. Thumb blue. (See/;. 339.) QUEEN’S MET'AL. A species of pew used for teapots, &c., made by fusing un( charcoal a mixture of tin, 9 parts, and at mony, bismuth, and lead, of each, 1 part; tin, 100 parts ; antimony, 8 parts; coypei parts; bismuth, 1 part. See Britani Metal and Pewter. QUEEN’S YEL'LOW. Tribasic sulphate mercury. (See page 907.) QUER'CITRON. The bark of Quercus nu or tinctoria, a species of oak indigenous North America. With alum mordants yields a very permanent yellow dye. QUICK'SILVER. See Mercury. QUILLS. Prep. 1. The quills or wi feathers of the goose (goose quills) are parately plunged, for a few seconds, into 1 ashes, cinders, or sand, of a temperature ab( equal to that of boiling water, after w-h they are scraped with a blunt knife, strou; rubbed with a piece of flannel or woollen do and gently ‘ stoved’; they are, lastly, tied in bundles by women or children. A yeh tinge is often given to them by dipping th for a short time into dilute hydrochloric nitric acid, or into an infusion of turmeric. 2. Suspend the quills in a copper o' water sufficiently high to nearly touch 1 nibs; then close it steam tight, and ap three or four hours’ hard boiling; next, wi draw the quills, and dry them, and in 24 ho cut the nibs and draw out the pith; last rub them with a piece of cloth, and exp them to a moderate heat in an oven or sto Quills prepared in this way are as hard bone, without being brittle, and nearly transparent as glass. Crow quills and sw quills may be cured in the same manner. QUI'NA. See Quinine. QUINCE. Sya. Cydonia, L. The fruit Cydonia vidgaris, or common quince tree. flavour in the raw state is austere, but it foi an excellent marmalade (quince marmalae and its juice yields an agreeable and whe^ some wine. The seed or pips (cydonia: f mina: ; cydonium—Ph. L.) abound in gum