980 OILS (VOLATILE). flavour to plain spirit. See Sulphate of Amtle and Amyl-ethee {page 163), also Oil OF Maec-beandy {below). Grass Oil. Several of the grasses {Grami- nacece) yield fragrant volatile oils. See Oil OF Geeanium, Geass Oil (of Namur), Oil OF Lemon-geass, Oil of Speing-geass, &c. Grass Oil (of Namur). Syn. India geass oil. From Andropogon Calamus aromaticus (Royle), supposed to have been the "sweet cane” and "rich aromatic reed from a far country” of Scripture; formerly supposed to be obtained from Andropogon Iwarancusa. Stimulant and highly fragrant. See Oil of Spikenaed. Oil of Hops. Syn. Oleum lupuli, L. From commercial hops, by distillation along with water. It may also be collected during the brewing of beer. Odorous; acrid; narcotic; soluble in water; becomes resinous by expo- sure and age. Sp. gr. ’GIO. Chiefly used to increase the aroma and flavour of old or da- maged hops. Oil of Horse-mint. Syn. Oleum monae- (Pb. IT. S.), L. From the fresh herb of Monarda punctata, a plant indigenous in the U. S. of America. Dark amber-coloured; fragrant j pungent; carminative; rubefacient; and vesicant. Oil of Horse-rad'isb. Syn. Oleum aemo- EACiiE, L. From the fresh roots of Cochlearia armoracia (Linn.), or common horse-radish. Pale yellow; heavier than water; acrid; vesi- cant; identical with that from black mus- TAED. Prod. *5g (nearly). Oil of Hys'sop. Sgn. Oleum hyssopi, L. From i\iQ flowering herb of Hyssopus officinalis. Aromatic; stimulant. Prod. ’25 to 'SSg. Oil of Jargonelle Pear. See Amyle (Ace- tate). Oil of Jas'min. Syn. Oil of jessamine; Oleum jasmini, O. j. volatile, L. From the flowers of Jasminum grandiflorum and J. fra- grans, carefully picked, by placing them in al- ternate layers with cotton wadding imbued with olive oil, in any suitable vessel, and re- newing the flowers till the fixed oil becomes strongly odorous, and then distilling the wad- ding along with a little water. The volatile OILS of HYACINTHS, JONQUIL, TUBEEOSE, VIO- LETS, and most of the more delicate flowers, are obtained in the same way. Used in per- fumery. From the East Indies. Oil of Ju”niper. Syn. Oleum junipeei (Ph. L. E. & D.), O. E. BACCIS J., O. ESSEN- TiALE E B. J., L. From either the wood, tops, or berries, preferably the last. The berries should be chosen fully grown, but still slightly green, and should be bruised before being placed in the still. In the Ph. L., English oil of juniper (o. junipeei, Anglicum) is or- dered. Colourless, or very pale greenish- yellow; odour and taste, sweet and terebin- thinate; rather viscid; soluble in rectified spirit; rendered opaque and resinous by expo- j sure and age. It is reputed carminative and diaphoretic, and possesses powerful diuretic properties. Sp. gr. •911 {English,’%^%%’, foreign, •8834—Brande). Prod. Green berries, •25§; ripe do. {one year old), | to Ig (fully). Pur. It is frequently adulterated with oil of turpentine, a fraud readily discovered by the lessened density, viscidity, and solubility, in rectified spirit, of the oil. Obs. Oil of juniper consists of two oils— one, white and most volatile, sp. gr. •8393; the other, dark-coloured and less volatile, sp. gr. •8784; together with some resin left in the retort. Krumholz Oil. Syn. Oleum templinum, L. From Hungarian balsam, a terebinthinate exu- dation from the Pinus pumilio, or mountain pine of Southern Europe. Fragrant; golden- yellow ; tastes oily, acidulous, and resinous. Oil of Lau'rel. Syn. Oil of sweet bay; Oleum lauei volatile, 0. l. essentials, L. From either the berries or leaves of Laurus nobilis (Linn.), or sweet bay-tree. Pale yellow, clear, odorous, aromatic, stimulant, and nar- cotic. Sp. gr. •STl. Prod. From the leaves, I to Ig (fully). Oil of Lav'ender. Syn. Essence of l. ; , Oleum lavandulje (Ph. L.), O. L.VEEiE (Ph. , E. k D.), O. L. SPIC.E, O. L. ESSENTIALS, , O. L. FLOEUM, L. The " oil (oleum lavan- DUL.E, Anglicum) distilled from the flowers of ? ‘ Lavandula vera^ (Ph. L.). Very pale lemon- yellow ; highly fragrant; taste, warm and not disagreeable; carminative, antispasmodic, and stimulant. Sp. gr. ^877 to •OOS. According i, to Brande, the sp. gr. of the oil obtained from the flowers only is •8960; that from the whole i plant, *9206. The lightest is esteemed the ) best. Prod. Flowers, 1^ to 2g (nearly). The i whole of the flowering herb is commonly dis- tilled. According to Ray baud, the herb, after flowering (Sept.), yields the most oil. Pur. Alcohol is the substance commonly used to adulterate this oil; hut, occasionally, oil of bergamot is used for the same purpose. If the density is below ^87, there is reason to suspect adulteration. When pure—1. Sul- phuric acid turns it reddish-brown, and the reaction is accompanied by strong inspissa- tion.—2. It fulminates quickly and violently with iodine, and the thick syrupy residue pos- sesses a pungent, acid, balsamic odour. The oils of the other labiate plants fulminate much less powerfully with iodine. The pre- sence of alcohol weakens, but does not destroy, i the action of this test, unless it is added in an | equal volume, when only a lively effervescence i and a disengagement of orange-coloured va- pours are produced by the iodine, without ful- mination.—3. Santaline is nearly insoluble in pure oil of lavender, and exerts no marked ac- tion on it, but is freely soluble in oil of lavender adulterated with alcohol or rectified spirit. Obs. English oil of lavender possesses the purest fragrance; and of this, the variety known as ‘Mitcham oil of lavendee,’ from the place of its preparation, is esteemed the|