1269 TEETHING—TELLUROUS ACID. jappreciated. Comparatively very few persons [wash their mouths and clean their teeth even lonce a day; a feat which ought always to be [practised at the conclusion of a meal, when [either animal food or vegetables are eaten; Ifor the first is apt to leave behind it a rancid Acrimony, and the other an acidity, both of |:hem hurtful to the teeth. Those who abhor 11 fetid breath, rotten teeth, and the tooth- iche, would do well to invariably clean their j:eeth before retiring to rest. With smokers, |:his practice is almost obligatory. Washing phe mouth frequently with cold water is not bnly serviceable in keeping the teeth clean, i but in strengthening the gums, the firm adhe- iiion of which to the teeth, is of the greatest | Importance in preserving them sound and! secure. Some persons think it serviceable to 1 idd a few drops of spirit or essence of cam-1 ihor to the water thus employed, a plan we! certainly approve of. See Beeath, Denti- j PRICES, Pastes, Powders, Tooth Cements, ! IVashes, &c. j TEETHING. Syn. Dentition. Children ire sometimes born with one or more teeth; mt, in general, the teeth, at birth, consist of nere pulpy rudiments buried in the gum. Ifheir development is gradual. About the ihird or fourth month they begin to assume jhape and hardness. At this period children jecome fretful, the saliva flows copiously, the j^ums grow turgid, and there is a fondness )f biting hard cold objects. In nearly all j 2ases there is more or less fever, frequently a j ^ough or diarrhoea, and a rash commonly i appears, which is called by nurses the*bed | |JUM.’ These symptoms generally abate after |i fortnight or three weeks, and the child I |remains undisturbed until the seventh or eighth I month. About this period the gums again | [become red, tender, and swollen, and often | pxtrcraely sensitive and painful. The upper , part of the gum gradually becomes attenuated | and pale, and, just before the tooth appears, I even covered with a blister. These changes are usually attended by an increased flow of |?aliva, or ‘ driveling,’ and a lax state of the jbowels, both of which are regarded as favor- lable symptoms. Sometimes, however, the \diarrhoea is excessive, when it may be cautiously [restrained by a dose or two of rhubarb-and- [magnesia, with a little dill or peppermint \water; or, better, by the daily use of a little \arrow-root, to which a few drops of pure port \wine may be added. Sometimes the local ^irritation is considerable, or there are spasms or \convulsions, in which case the practice is to dance the gums. When there is drowsiness, \stupor, or oppressed respiration, one or two ^leeches may be applied to the temples, and a small blister to the back of the neck, or behind the ear. Sluggishness of the bowels may be ; removed by a little castor oil; or, when there i is actual constipation, by a little calomel or I mercurial powder and rhubarb. Excessive [irritability, without other marked symptoms, is best combated by a drop or two of tincture of hops in sw^eetened water. Throughout the whole period of dentition the use of warm dry clothing, freedom from tight bandages, with thorough ventilation, good nursing exercise, fresh air without undue exposure, abundance of crawling on the carpet, and frequent warm baths, will be found most advantageous. In- deed, the last, without other treatment, are often sufficient to subdue the most distressing convulsions and the most obstinate diarrhoea, and in no case can they do harm. See Nurs- ing, Strophulus, &c. TEL'LURETTED HYDROGEN. See page 746. TELLU'RIC ACID. Syn. Teroxide op Tellurium. Prep. Equal parts of tellurous acid and carbonate of soda are fused together, the product dissolved in water, a little hydrate of soda added, and a stream of chlorine passed through the solution; the liquid is next saturated with ammonia, and mixed with solution of chloride of barium, by which a w'hite insoluble precipitate of tellueate op BARYTA is thrown down; this is washed and digested with l-4th of its weight of sulphuric acid diluted with water ; the filtered solution gives, on evaporation in the air, large crystals of telluric acid. Prop., Sfc. Soluble in water; a strong heat renders it anhydrous, and insoluble, even in boiling liquor of potassa; a red heat converts it into TELLUROUS acid; its salts (tellu- EATES) are uncrystallizable; those of the earths, insoluble. TELLU'RIUM. A rare grayish-white ele- mentary substance, found only in small quan- tities, associated w'ith gold, silver, lead, and bismuth, in the gold mines of Transylvania. It has often been described as a metal, but i.s now commonly classed with the metalloids. Prep. The native sulpho-telluret of bismuth of Chemnitz, in Hungary, reduced to fine powder, is mixed with an equal w’eight of dry carbonate of soda, the mixture made into a paste with oil, and heated to whiteness in a closely covered crucible; tellueet and SUL- PHURET OF SODIUM are produced, and me- tallic BISMUTH set free; the fused mass is dissolved in w'ater and the solution freely ex- posed to the air, when the sodium and sulphur oxidize to caustic soda and hyposulphite OF soda, whilst the tellurium separates. Prop., 8fc. It possesses a colour and lustre closely approaching those of silver; is brittle ; fuses below redness; burns in ihe air when heated; and is volatilized at a red heat; sp. gr. 6*2578. With oxygen it forms two compounds, both of which exhibit acid properties (tellu- Eous and telluric acids). It also forms two compounds wdth chlorine. TELLU'ROUS ACID. Prep. By burning tellurium in the air; or, by heating it, in fine powder, with nitric acid of the sp. gr. 1*25; the solution, thus obtained, deposits wdiite an- hydrous octahedral crystals of tellurous acid