VETCH—VETERINARY MEDICINES. 1312 Prep. 1. (P. Cod.) powdered can- tharides with concentrated alcohol, by percola- tion; distil off the spirit from the filtered tincture, and leave the residuum to deposit crystals; these may be purified by dissolving them in boiling alcohol, digestion with animal charcoal^ filtration whilst hot, and crystallizing by refrigeration. 2. (Thierry.) Macerate, cantharides (in coarse powder) for several days in ether, in a closed displacement apparatus; then, after the whole of the soluble matter has been extracted by the addition of fresh portions of ether, pour on sufficient water to displace the re- tained ether; next distil off the ether, dissolve the remaining extract in boiling alcohol, filter while, hot, and abandon the filtrate to spon- tanedus evaporation. Prod. -5g. 3. .Digest the aqueous extract of cantharides in hot alcohol, filter, evaporate to dryness, digest the residuum in sulphuric ether, evapo- rate, and slightly wash the resulting crystals with cold alcohol. Prop., 8(c. Micaceous plates resembling spermaceti; fusible; vaporizable; insoluble in water; soluble in ether, oils, acetic .acid, and hot alcohol; powerfully vesicant and poisonous. Its vapour, even at ordinary temperatures, fre- quently produces temporary blindness. The 1-lOOth part of a graiuj placed on a piece of paper, and applied to the edge of the lower lip, caused snaall blisters in 15 minutes, which, when rubbed with a little simple cerate, ex- tended over a large surface, and covered both lips with blisters. (Robiquet.) VETCH. The common name of various le- guminous plants of the genera Vida and Er- vum, now. much cultivated as green fodder for milch cows and working, stock. The seeds (tares) were formerly reputed detersive and astringent. Those of "the Canadian variety make good hread.’^ (Lindley.) VET'ERINARY MEDICINES. The common form of medicine for hoeses is that popularly known as horse balls. They are usually pre- pared by mixing the dry ingredients^ in the state of powder, with a sufficient quantity of treacle, or syrup bottoms, to give the mass a proper consistence for rolling into ballsadd- ing, when necessary, linseed meal, or any other simple powder,, to increase the bulk. The usual practice among the farriers’ drug- gists is to keep a compound known in the trade as ‘ ball-mass’ or * common mass,’ ready prepared to give form and bulk to more active ingredients. This is usually made of about equal parts of linseed meal and treacle, together with a little palm oil or lard, thoroughly in- corporated by kneading with the hands; and it is kept in a cool situation, tied over to pre- vent it drying and hardening. For use, the ball-masses are either rolled or moulded into small cylinders of about 1^ to If oz. in weight; and in size, from 2 to 2f inches long, and from about i to | of an inch in diameter; and they are wrapped in soft paper, which is administered with them. Those for dogs are commonly formed into large boluses or nut- like pieces. The common practice, in some houses, of adding a little salt of tartar or ace- tate of potassa to ball-masses kept in stock, for the purpose of preserving them in a soft state, is not to be commended, since these articles decompose many of the saline and mineral compounds which are subsequently added to them. Medicines for neat cattle are always ad- ministered in a liquid form, popularly called drenches, which are noticed at page 529. A similar plan is adopted with small cattle, as SHEEP and GOATS. For these, however, the quantity should seldom exceed 4 pint. In all cases, drenches should be very slowly adminis- tered. The following are a few useful horse-balls Alteeative balls.—1. Levigated sulphuret of antimony, sulphur, and linseed meal, of each, 3 oz. ,* nitre, 4 oz. / palm oil, q. s. to forrn a mass; for 12 balls. One to be taken every day, or every other day. 2. (Bell.) Sulphuret of antimony, nitre, sul- phur, and ethiop’s mineral, of each, 3 oz.; soft soap, 10 oz.; oil of juniper, f oz.; for 12 Falls. As the last. 3. (White.) Sulphuret of antimony, cara- ways, and treacle, of each, 4 oZ.; for one ball. As the last. COEDI^ BALLS.—1. (Blaine.) Coriander j seed, caraway, and gentian^ of each, 8 oz.; gin- < ger, 4 oz.; oil of aniseed, \ oz.; honey dr palm oilj, q. s. ^ to form a mass. Cordial, warming, | and stomachic. Dose., 1^ oz. 2. (Hni.) Anise, caraway, and cumin seed, i of each, 4 lb.; ginger, 2 lb.; treacle, q. s.; d divide into l|-oz. balls. Prod. 21 lb., • , ^ Cough balls.—1. (Blaine.) Ipecacuanha, 1 dr.; camphor, 2 dr.; honey, q. s. to form a ball. One night and njorning. 2. (B. Clark.) Emetic tartar and benzoin, of each, 2 dr.; squills, 4 dr.; spermaceti and balsam of copaiba, of each, 1 oz.; elecampane and sulphur, of each, 2 oz.; syrup of poppies, q. s. to mix; for 8 halls. As the last. Diueetic balls.—1. (Bracy Clark.) Nitre and common turpentine, of each, 1 lb.; Castile soap, 4 lb.; barley meal, 2^ lb., or q. s. For common-sized balls, 2. (Morton.) Digitalis, 1 pz.; aloes, 2 oz.; liquorice, 13 oz.; honey or Barbadoes tar, q. s. to mix; for 1-oz. balls. One, twice a day, with care. Physic balls, Pueging b., Cathaetic b. —1. Aloes and hard soap, of each, 5 oz.; salt of tartar and cayenne pepper, of each, 1 oz.; melt together. For 8 balls. 2. (Vet. Coll.)—a. (Common physic ball.) Aloes, 8 oz.; treacle, 3 oz.; olive oil, 1 oz.; melted together. Dose. 1 to I4 oz. b. (Stronger ball.) To each dose of the last, add of croton oil, 4 to 8 drops. Obs. The dose of the above is 1 baU, fasting, in the morning, preceded by a bran mash, on