ASARINE—ASH. 232 mation of the eyes), and some other lethargic affections.” (Dr. A. T. Thomson.) In dimness of sight (especially that arising from fatigue or congestion), deafness, and slight paralytic affections of the mouth, tongue, lips, or eye- lids, not of a serious organic character, and particularly, in otorrhoea, it also sometimes affords relief after other remedies have failed. It constitutes the basis of several Cephalic SNUPPS, Asaeabacca-snupp, Baeon McKin- sey’s medicinal powdee (or SNUPP), and several other like nostrums, which are much extolled by their ‘ venders,’ and sold at ‘ mar- vellously high prices.’ See Patent Medi- cines, PowDEES, Snupps, &c. (also lelow). AS'ARINE (-rm). [Eng., Fr.] A species of stearoptene, discovered by Gortz, in asara- bacca. It has an aromatic taste and an odour resembling camphor, and is said to be emetic. It is probably a mixture of asarum-camphor and some partially oxidised volatile oil. (See above.) As'arine (of Grager). Syn. Asaei'na, L. The crystallisable bitter principle of asarabacca, noticed above. It is said to greatly resemble cytisine. AS'ARITE (-rite). See Asaeabacca. ASBESTINE (-tin). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. As- BESTl'NUS, L.; INCOMBUSTIBLE, &C., Fr. Of or like asbestus; incombustible. ASBES'TUS. Syn. Asbes'tus, Asbes'tos incombustible, unconsumable. Gr.), Amianth'us, La'pis a., &c., L; Asbeste, Amiante, Fr.; Asbest, Steinplachs, Ger. In mineralogy, a soft, fibrous substance, com- posed of flexible or elastic filaments which, in their most highly developed form, greatly resembles those of flax or silk, and which bear exposure to a very considerable degree of heat without suffering decomposition. From this property has originated the popular belief of its being indestructible by fire. In ancient times it was woven into cloth, and also formed into a species of paper; and the bodies of the dead about to be burned, were enveloped in asbestine vestments, in order that their ashes might not mingle with those of the funeral pile. The Egyptians were adepts at this manu- facture. (Herodotus.) At the commencement of our era, napkins, which were cleansed by ‘ ignition ’ instead of washing, were made of it. (Pliny.) The spinning of asbestus was in practice in Venice at the commencement of the 16th century. (Baptista Porta.) It is now rather regarded as a natural wonder, than a thing capable of extensive application to useful purposes. Recently Chevalier Al- dini has prepared pieces of cloth of it, which rival, in size and quality, the very best sped- mens of antiquity; and from these he has constructed articles of dress which, under or- dinary exposure to fire, are absolutely incom- bustible and indestructible. It has been pro- posed to clotbe our firemen in such dresses : hut without freedom of respiration could be insured in a heated and poisonous atmosphere, this envelope would be of little service. The uses to which they may, however, be applied by an adept, was fully demonstrated (a.d. 1858-9) by the so-called ‘Salamander,’ or ' Fire-king,’ at Cremorne Gardens, Chelsea, to the amazement of every beholder. Var. Of these there are several; as Am'i- ANTE or ELAS'TIC ASBESTUS, LIG'NIEOEM A., MOUNTAIN-COEK, M.-LEATHEE, M.-WOOD, &C. ; varying from a grey, brown, or green colour, to pure white, and from extreme flexibility and softness, to rigidity and hardness, as indi- cated by the respective names. In common language, however, the term ‘ asbestus ’ is usually restricted to the softer fibrous varieties. AS'BOLINE (-lin). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. As- boli'na, L. a yellow, acrid, bitter, oleo-re- sinous matter, obtained by Braconnot from soot. “ It consists of acid pyretine combined with that species of pyretine and pyrelaine which is formed during the distillation of py- retine.” (Berzelius.) It is anthelmintic, and gives this property to soot. (Braconnot.) ASCAR'IDES (-id-ez). [L., Fr.; prim. Gr.; sing., as'caris, daicaplg.^ Syn. Daem-wuemee, Mastdaem-w., Nadel-w., &c., Ger. In zoo- logy, a genus of worms belonging to the intes- tina"lia of Cuvier (en/ozo'a—Rudolphi), dis- tinguished by a trilobate or trivalvular head, and a double spiculum for the intromittent organ. Two species are found in the human body—As'caeis lumbeicoi'des (Gmelin; AS- CAEIS—Rudolphi; l’ASCAEIDE LUMBEICOiDE, Fr.; EUNDWUEM, Ger.), long round-worm, or lumbricoid ascaris ; and—Ascaeis veemicu- la"eis (Gmel.; OXYU"eis—'RmA.), maw-worm or thread-worm. The first is generally of the thickness of a goose-quill, and from 10 to 15 inches long; and is generally found in the small intestines. The last species, as its name implies, is thread-like in appearance, and varies from 1-^ line to 5 lines in length. It confines itself chiefly to the rectum, in adults; but sometimes extends itself to the caecum. It chiefly infests women and children; but has been found even in infants newly born. In familiar language, the term ‘ ascarides,’ and its synonyms, are usually restricted to this variety, ^e WoEMS. ASCTTES^-si'-tez; -kl'—Knowles,is obsolete or pedantic). [L.; prim. Gr.] Syn. Ascite, Fr.; Bauchwasseesucht, Ger. In pathology, dropsy of the belly. The corresponding ad,}, is ascit'ic or ascitTcal (ascitique, Fr.; Wasser- suchtig, Ger.). See Deopsy. ASEX'UAL (-seks'-u-). Syn. Asexua'lis, L. In botany, cryptogamic, acotyledonous, or flowerless; applied to plants in which sexual organs are either absent or indistinguishable. ASH. Syn. FeaxTnus, L. ; Feene, Fr.; Esche, Ger. The popular name of several species of valuable hardy trees bearing apeta- lous flowers (except in the ‘ flowering ash’), belonging to the nat. ord. Oleaceae (DC.), and gen. Fraxinus; but appropriately the— Ash. Syn. Comm'on ash; Feax'inus, F.