ARABESQUE—ARCANUM. 204 well-known-bird {aquila, Cuv.; fal'co ful'vns, Gmelin) of the Linnsean order accipitres. The bones of the head were formerly adminis- tered in headache; the brains (steeped in wine), in jaundice ; the tongue, in incontinence of urine; and the gall (converted into an errhine), in affections of the head. The wings (placed under the feet) were supposed to facilitate labour. Aquilaf. In alchemy, substances, particu- larly sublimates, supposed to possess peculiar virtue. AR'ABESQUE (-besk). [Fr.] In the Ara- bian manner; more particularly applied to a species of capricious, fantastic, and imagi- native ornamentation, consisting of foliage, stalks, plants, &c., to the entire exclusion of the figures of animals. The designs of this class, now so much employed in cloth and leather binding, are produced by the pressure of hot plates or rollers having the pattern engraved on them. See Moeesqtje. AR'ABmE (-bin). [Eng., Fr.] Sy7i. So- LiTBLE ami; Aeabi'na, L. The pure soluble principle of gum acacia. Prep. Dissolve white gum-arabic in water, filter the solution, and add alcohol as long as it produces curdiness; collect the pre- cipitated matter, and dry it by a gentle heat. Prop., I^c. Very soluble in water; basic acetate of lead, alcohol, and ether, precipi- tate it from its solutions. It is isomeric with crystallised cane sugar. It possesses no prac- tical superiority over the best gum arabic, except its paler colour. AB'ABLE (-abl). Syn. AEABhtlS, L.; Aea- BTT.E, Laboeeable, Fr.; Pflugbae, Ger. In agriculture, fit for or under tillage or ara- tion; ploughed. Arable Land. In agriculture, land which is chiefly or wholly cultivated by the plough, as distinguished from grass-land, wood-land, com- mon pasture, and waste. See Land, Soils, &c. ARACHNI'DANS (ar-ak-). Syn. Aeacii- nt'des, Aeachni'da, L. In zoology, the third class of the articulata of Cuvier. It includes the spider (‘ arach'ne,’ L., Gr.), mite, and scor- pion. The arachnida are apterous, oviparous, respire either by bran chi m or radiated trachese, have the head confluent with the chest, pos- sess eight legs, are destitute of true antennse, and do not undergo metamorphosis like the true insects. See Zoology. ARACH'E'OID (-rak'-noyd). Syn. Aeach- NOi'DES, L. In anatomy and botany, cobweb- like. It is applied to a membrane (aeachnoid :meoi'beane) situate between the ‘dura mater’ and the ‘ pia mater,’ and investing the brain and spinal cord. ARANEI'DANS. Syn. AeaneTda, Aea- neTd.e, Aeanei'des*, L. The spider-tribe. In zoology, a tribe of pulmonary arachnidans, including the spider {ara'nea, L.) proper. They have a coriaceous integument; mouth fur- nished with short, horny jaws; niodified an- tennae or chelicers two, inemwed and jointed, armed with a claw, and perforated near the I apex for the transmission of venom; eyes ^ eight (rarely six); legs eight; spinnerets four or six. They fix the ends of their threads by applying their spinning papillae to the object; and the thread lengthens as tb.e animal recedes from it, in the way that may be seen daily. ARA'TIOlir*. In agriculture, ploughing; culture by ploughing; tillage. Lands in a ‘ state of aration ’ are those under tillage. AR'BOIl. [L.] A tree. The seventh family of vegetables in Linnaeus’ system. In anatomy and chemistry, a term formerly applied to membranes and substances having some real or fancied resemblance to a tree or vegetation. An ar'boret is a little tree; an arborist, or ar' - bordtorf, is one who studies or cultivates trees. See Teee, Metallic Vegetation, &c. ARB0"RE0US (-bore'-). Syn. Ae/boeous ; Aebo"eees, L. ; Aeboee, Fr. Of or be- longing to a tree; growing on trees* ; tree-like. In botany, applied to plants having a perma- nent woody stem. Herbaceous plants, with stems assuming a ligneous character, are termed suffrutes'cent or arbor'eous, according to the degree of woodiness which they exhibit. Plants which grow on trees are also often, though incorrectly, called arboreous. ARBORES'CENT (-res'-ent). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Aeboees'cens, L. Tree-like; that resembles a tree, or gradually acquires the characters of one. In botany, applied to plants of whicli ; the stems, at first herbaceous, afterwards be- come more or less woody and tree-like; her- baceous plants which approach trees in appear- ance as they grow older. ARBORE'TUM. [L.] Primarily, a grove or nursery of trees; in horticulture, a place in a park, pleasure ground, or garden, in which a collection of trees of different species are cul- tivated. The ‘ arboretums ’ of the Messrs. Loddiges at Hackney, and of the London Horticultural Society at Chiswick, are said to contain the largest number of species collected together, of any in Europe. AR'BORICUiiTURE (-kult-fire). [Eng. Fr.] Syn. Aeboeiculte"ea, L. The art of cultivating trees and shrubs for their timber, or for ornamental purposes. VTien trees are grown for their fruit, their cultivation and management belong to nOE'TicrLTiTEE or Po- MOL'OGY. ARBUS'CULAR (-ku-). Shrub-like. An ae'- BUSCLE (-biis’l; arbus’cula, L.; arbuste, Fr.) is a dwarf-tree, approaching in size a shrub. ARCA'NUM. [L.] ' Aecane, Fr.; Ge- HEiMNis, Ger. A secret. In alchemy, a term applied to various jmeparations without , any precise meaning. “ Arcanum is a thing secret, incorporeal, and immortal, which can | only be known to man by experience; for it is the \ i virtue of each thing, wdiich operates a thousand I tj times more than the thing itself.” (Ruland.) J In ancient medicine and pharmacy, a nostrum. | a