'i ACIDITY. 37 poured out will contain more water, and con- sequently, less acid, than the remaining fluid. When great accuracy is required, it is proper )| to prepare and keep standard solutions of sul- ii phuric acid and oxalic acid, with which occa- t| sionally to try the alkaline test-liquor. The »i only difficulty in the process is to avoid over- J saturation of the acid-sample. Great care must (| he taken not to exceed the precise point of <1 neutralisation of the acid. After adding each n| portion of the test-liquor, the solution should ( be well stirred up, and as soon as the effer- < vescence becomes languid the greatest caution j must be observed in adding more. The proper < point is arrived at when the liquid ceases to r, redden litmus, and does not alter the colour of I turmeric paper ; if it turns the latter brown, too much of the test-liquid has been added, tl and the operation becomes useless. Towards (j the end of the experiment, when great pre- 'I cision is required, a gentle heat may be applied, ij in order to expel the free carbonic acid in the |i liquor; but otherwise this is unnecessary. The (j peculiar soapy odour gradually acquired by •ij the liquor as it nears saturation, will materially Ij assist the operator when testing vinegars, and i| some of the other vegetable acids. A good method is to tint either the acid-sample or the i! test-liquid with a few drops of litmus, as noticed under Acetimetet ; when the reddish ij shade will gradually deepen into ‘ purple/ or i| the purple into ‘ red,’ as the point of satura- jj tion is approached; and the blue colour will ii be perfectly restored as soon as this point is fl reached. Dr. Ure recommends keeping the i|i ammonia-test ready tinged with litmus; and <1 the same applies to other test-liquors. Any I other method of measuring, or of ascertaining, i the exact quantity of test-liquor, than that , directed as water-grains measure, &c., may be , adopted, as convenience or as circumstances i may suggest; but however this be done, it is I absolutely necessary to do so accurately. The I ingenious and elegant methods II. a., and II. b., \ are admirable in the hands of persons accustomed to chemical manipulations; and the results, I when these processes are properly conducted, I are unimpeachable. The tyro will And no I difficulty in any of the other processes; but t to ensure great accuracy, a quick eye, a j delicate hand, and some little practice, are I necessary. I In commerce, the strength of acids is fre- I quently reckoned with reference to a standard, termed loO acidimetric degrees. This is taken from the circumstance that 91 gr. of commer- cial oj7 of vitriol, of a sp. gr. of 1-845, exactly saturate 100 gr. of dried carbonate of soda. An acid requiring only 35, 50, or any other numher of grains of the carbonate to saturate it, is in like manner termed of so many degrees strong; the number of grains representing in each case an equal number of degrees. This method originated with the French chemists, and though only conventional, and principally confined to commercial purposes, is especially adapted to practical men but little conversant with chemistry, yet very ready in retaining or calculating anything on the centesimal scale, from its similarity to monetary language and reckoning. In conclusion, it may be remarked, that when the acid is costly, or scarce, a small quantity may be examined as easily as a larger one. Thus, instead of 91 gr. mentioned above (when speaking of acidimetric degrees), any fractional portion of that weight may be em- ployed. Thus, 13, 26, 39, or 52 gr. will yield similar results, by merely multiplying the quantity of dried carbonate of soda by 7, \, or \, according as 13 gr., or any of the follow- ing numbers, have been used. In either case, the product will be in acidimetrical degrees. The centesimal system of calculation admits of various useful applications, by means of the simple ‘ Rule of Three.’ To adapt the above methods to the decimal system of weights and measures adopted by French and German chemists, it is only necessary to substitute 100 decigrammes for 100 grains. See Acetimetry, Alkalimetry, Measuring, Test-Solutions, VOLUMETRICAL ANALYSIS, &C. ACIDTTY. Syn. AcidTtas, L. ; Acidite, Fr.; Sauee, Ger. In chemistry, the state of being acid. In physiology, 6(c., the impression given to the organs of taste by tart or acid substances. Sourness. See Fermentation, Malt-LIQUORS, Wines, &c. Gas'tric Acidity. Acidity of the stomach; a common and well-known symptom of weak or disordered digestion. Treat., <^e. Small doses of absorbents or antacids, three or four times daily, to which some tonic bitter, as calumba, cascarilla, chamo- mile, gentian, or orange-peel, may be added. Stomachic stimulants, as capsicum, ginger, mustard, or wine, &c., taken with, or after, meals, are also useful. The diet should be light and nutritious; and acescent vegetables, over- ripe fruit, and weak new beer or other liquors, avoided as much as possible. The bowels should be kept regular, but not open, by the occasional use of mild aperients; as rhubarb, aloes, castor oil, senna, or mercurial pill, or compounds containing them. Excessive looseness or diarrhoea may be checked by a few doses of chalk-mixture or astringents. In INFANCY this affection is usually accom- panied by restlessness, continual crying, drawing up of the legs forcibly towards the body, hiccups, vomiting, diarrhoea, sour eructations, griping pains, green stools, and debility ; often followed, when the irritation is considerable, by convulsions. The treatment consists in relieving the bowels of all offending matter by a few doses of rhubarb-and-magnesia. The looseness or diarrhoea may be checked by a few small doses of chalk-mixture; or better, in an infant which is fed, by lime-water (1 or 2 fl. oz.) mixed with as much milk. Two or three drops of caraway, cinnamon, dill, or peppermint water, on sugar (not with the