136i APPENDIX. Ammonia. Besides two forms of ‘ Liquor Ammouiffi’ (see Solutions), we find the follow- ing compounds containing this base:— Acetate of Ammonia. In the form of a solution (which see). Benzoate of Ammonia (Ammonije Ben- ZOAS). Prepared by dissolving benzoic acid, 2 oz., in a mixture of solution of ammonia, 3 fl. oz., and distilled water, 8 fl. oz.; evaporating at a gentle heat, and crystallizing. (See 2^age 140.) Caebonate of Ammonia (AMMONiiE Cae- BONAS ; A. Sesquicaebonas, Ph.L. & D.). See page 141. Hydeochloeate of Ammonia (Ammonite Hydeochloeas ; A. Mueias, Ph. E. & D.). See page 145. Phosphate of Ammonia (Ammonee Phosphas). Prepared by adding strong solu- tion of ammonia, 8 fl. oz., to dilute phosphoric acid, 20 fl. oz.; dissolving the resulting preci- pitate by aid of a gentle heat, and setting aside to crystallize. On removal, the crystals are to be quickly dried on Altering paper, and transferred to a stoppered bottle. The ‘ mother-liquor ^ may be evaporated to half its bulk, and mixed with strong solution of am- monia, 2 fl. oz., to obtain additional crystals. (See page 156.) Sulphate of Ammonia. Simply named in Appendix as an article employed in the prepa- ration of medicines. Ammoniac—Ammoniacum. In tears or masses. (See page 158.) Antimony. The following compounds are included:— Oxide of Antimony (Antimonii Oxidum ; A. Teeoxidum, Ph. L.). Prepared by a modi- fication of the Ph. D. process, as follows :— Solution of terchloride of antimony, 16 fl. oz., is poured into water, and, when the precipitate has subsided, the supernatant liquid is siphoned off. The precipitate is then agitated with dis- tilled water, 1 gall., and, after the subsidence of the former, the fluid is again withdrawn ; this treatment with distilled water is repeated until the fluid has only a feeble acid reaction on litmus paper. Carbonate of soda, 5 oz., dissolved in distilled water, 2 pints, is now added to the precipitate, and allowed to remain in contact with it for ^ an hour, during which time the whole must be frequently stirred. The deposit is collected on a calico filter, washed with boiling distilled water until the washings cease to give a precipitate with a solution of nitrate of silver which has been acidulated with nitric acid; and, lastly, it is dried at a heat under 212° Eahr. See Tee- oxide OF Antimony {page 188). SULPHUEATED ANTIMONY (AnTIMONIUM Sulphueatum; Antimonii Oxysulphuee- TUM, Ph. L. ; A. SULPHUEETUM AUEEUM, Ph. E.; A. S. PE.ECIPITATUM, Ph. D.). The pro- cess given is essentially that of Hi. L. See OxYSULPHUEET OF ANTIMONY {page 189). Sulphuret of Antimony (Prepared). Under this head, tersulphuret of antimony, reduced to a fine powder, is placed in the Appendix among articles employed in the preparation of medicines. (See page 194.) Taetaeated Antimony (Antimonium Taetaeatum ; Antimonii Potassio-taeteas, Ph. L.). Prepared by the process of Ph. D. {page 191, Prep. 3). Teechloeide of Antimony. In the form of a Solution (which see). Aqua. See Watee {below). Arnica Boot—Aenica. The root of Arnica montana, dried; collected in middle and southern Europe. (See page 209.) Arsenious Acid—Acidum Aeseniosum ; Aesenicum Album, Pb. E. An unnecessary process for purifying the white arsenic of com- merce by sublimation is given, as in Ph. D. (See page 215.) Aesenious Acid of commeece (White Arsenic) is named in the Appendix. Asafostida—Asafcetida. Gum-resin from Narthex Asafcetida, obtained from the living root, in Affghanistan and the Punjaub. (See page 236.) Atropia—Ateopia. An alkaloid obtained from belladonna root. The process is a modi- fication of that devised by Mein and Liebig {page 245). A tincture of belladonna root (prepared by maceration and percolation, from dried root, 2 lb. ; rectified spirit, 10 pints) is treated with slaked lime, 1 oz.; agitated, filtered, and then rendered feebly acid by the addition of dilute sulphuric acid. After a second filtration, f of the spirit is distilled off, and the residue is treated with distilled water, 10 fl. oz. The whole is then evaporated at a gentle heat, but as rapidly as possible, until the liquid is reduced to ^ of its volume, and ceases to smell of alcohol. When cool, it is nearly neutralized by solution of carbonate of potash ; and, having been allowed to rest for 6 hours, it is filtered and again treated with solution of carbonate of potash, until the liquid has a decided alkaline reaction. It is now agitated with chloroform, 3 fl. oz., which, being permitted to subside, is drawn off by means of a separating funnel, and distilled on a water bath from a retort connected with a condenser. The residue is now dissolved in warm rectified spirit, and the solution thus obtained is digested with a MtiXepurified animal charcoal; it is finally filtered, evaporated, and cooled, until colourless crystals are obtained. For the properties, &c., of this new ofiicinal pre- paration, see page 246. Bael—Bela. Dried half-ripe fruit of .^gle Marmelos. (See page 251.) Balsam of Peru—Balsamum Peeuvianum. See page 262. Balsam of Tolu—Balsamum Tolutanum. See page 262. Barium (Chloride of). Named in Appendix as an article employed in analysis. (See 265.)