1190 SCHEELE^S GREEN—SCROFULA. gamot, 2 oz.; otto of roses and neroli, of each, ' 1 dr. 2. Oil of lavender, 1 oz. ; essence of lemon, 2 oz. ; essence of bergamot, 4 oz. 3. To the last, add of oil of cloves, 2 oz. 4. Essence of musk and ambergris, of each, 1 oz. ; liquor of ammonia, ^ dr. See Snuff, &c, SCHEELE’S GREEN. See Geeen Pia- MENTS. SCHLIPPE'S SALT. Sulphantimoniate of sodium page 195). SCHWARTZ^S DROPS. See Woem Deops {page 532). SCIATICA. See Rheumatism. SCIL'LITIN. Syn. Scillitina, Scillitite. A whitish, resinous, translucent, hitter, deli- quescent substance, obtained by Vogel from squills. It is soluble in water, alcohol, and acetic acid, and is purgative, acrid, and poi- sonous. SCORBU'TUS. See Scueyy. SC0"RIA. Dross; the refuse or useless part of any substance, more especially that left from bodies which have been subjected to the action of tire. It is frequently used in the plural (scoEiiE). SCOTT’S DROPS. See Patent Medicines. SCOURTNG. The common method of clean- ing cloth is by beating and brushing it, unless it be very dirty, when it undergoes the opera- tion of scouring. This is best done on the small scale, as with aeticles of weaeing APPAEEE, as foUows :—A little curd soap is dissolved in water, and, after mixing it with a little clarified ox-gall, is applied to all the spots of grease, dirt, &c., and well rubbed into them with a stiff brush until they appear to be removed; after which the article is well cleaned all over with a brush or sponge dipped into some warm water, to which the previous mixture and a little more ox-gall has been added. The cloth is next thoroughly rinsed in clean water, and hung up to dry. For dark-coloured cloths, some fuller’s earth is often added to the mixture of soap and gall. When the article is nearly dry, the nap is laid smooth, and it is carefully pressed (if with a hot iron, on the wrong side), after which a soft brush, moistened with a drop or two of olive oil, is frequently passed over it, to give it a finish and gloss. Cloth is also cleaned in the dry way :—The spots being removed, as above, and the wetted parts having become dry, clean damp sand is strewed over it, and beaten into it with a brush, after which the article is well gone over with a hard brush, when the sand comes out, and brings the dirt with it. Buff and dead cloth is generally cleaned by covering it with a paste made Yuth pipe clay and water, either with or without a little umber to temper the colour, which, when dry, is rubbed and brushed off. W’'hen the article requires renovation as well as scouring, it is placed, whilst still damp, on a board, and the threadbare parts are rubb with a half-worn hatter’s card filled withfiocA or with a teasel, or a prickly ihislle, until nap is raised ; it is next hung up to dry, aft which it is ‘ finished off’ as before. When t cloth is much faded, it is usual to give it ‘ dip,’ as it is called, or to pass it through dye bath to freshen up the colour. Black a DAEK BLUE CLOTH, if rusty or faded, is coil monly treated to a coat of ‘ reviver’ instead being ‘ re-dipped,’ and is then hung up un next day, before being pressed and finished t See Spots and Stains. SCOURING DROPS. (See page 532.) SCROFULA. A non-contagious disease, coi i sisting in “ hard indolent tumours of the cc globate glands in various parts of the bod' I but particularly in the neck, behind the ea and under the chin, which after a time su purate, and degenerate into ulcers, from whi( instead of pus, a white curdled matter, son what resembling the coagulum of milk, is d charged.” In mild cases, the glands, aft suppuration, slowly heal; in others, the e\ become inflamed, and the joints affecte whilst in severe cases, the disease gradua extends to the ligaments and bones, pi ducing a debilitated and hectic conditi( under which the patient sinks, or it i' duces phthisis, and the patient dies of tl disease. The first appearance of scrofula is usua betw’een the third and seventh yeox •, but itr unfrequently occurs betw^een this age and tl of puberty, after which it seldom makes first attack. Delicate children, with fair co plexions, and those disposed to rickets, are t' most liable to scrofula. In its milder fori, when not affecting any deep-seated or impr tant parts, it is not, in itself, a'dangerc disease, although, by rendering the path more liable to certain other diseases, and aggravating their severity, it indirectly 1 comes so, and thus often tends greatly shorten life. The exciting causes of scrofula, when it not hereditary, are a moist atmosphere, low damp situation, and insufficient or i i proper diet, as well as everything that ten |t to debilitate the system. It is rare in eitl ) hot or very cold climates, where the air generally dry. The treatment of scrofula at different ] riods, and by different persons, has included least a tithe of the materia medica; but t articles that appear to be most beneficial s comparatively few. Iodine, or, better, iod> of potassium, cod liver oil, lemon juice, and t bicarbonate of potassa, are among this numb Mild chalybeate tonics are also useful. T diet of the patient should be nourishing a liberal, and contain a moderate share of t red meats and cruciferous vegetables. T clothing should be warm, and amply su cient; and, when convenient, an elevated dry situation should be chosen for a i