1366 APPENDIX, Catechu. Two varieties are iucluded, viz.— Black Catechu (Catechu Nigeum). An extract of the heart-wood of Acacia Catechu ; imported from Pegu. Pale Catechu (Catechu pallidum). ^An extract of the leaves and young shoots of Uncaria Gambir ; prepared at Singapore and in the E. Archipelago. (Seepage 405.) Cevadilla—Sabadilla. The dried fruit. (See page 1177.) Chalk. This is named in Appendix as an ar- ticle employed in the preparation of medicines. Peepaeed Chalk (Ceeta pe^paeata). A process is given essentially similar to that of Ph. L. 1836. (See page 420—al^o Lime (Car- bonate), below,) Chamomile Flowers—Anthemis. “ The flower-heads, single and double, dried; wild and cultivated, in Britain. (See page 421.) Charcoal. Two varieties are included be- sides bone-black, viz,— PuEipiED Animal Chaecoal (Caebo Animalis PUEiEiCATUs). Prepared from bone- blaclc by the Ph. D. process, slightly modified. (See 3, b, page 422.) Wood Chaecoal (Caebo Ligni). See page 422. Cherry-Laurel Leaves — Laueo-ceeasus. The fresh leaves ” of Prunus Lauro-cerasus ; “ from plants cultivated in Britain.^’ Chiretta—Chieata. “The entire planP^— Ophelia Chirata—“collected in northern India when the fruit begins to form.'’^ Its medicinal properties resemble those of gentian. Chlorine. Ordered in the form of a Solution (which see). Chloroform—Chloeofoemum. The process of the Ph. D., altered slightly in detail, is given. Instead of the peroxide of manganese employed in the last stage of that process, a mixture of chloride of calcium, 2 oz., with dry slaked lime, f oz., is ordered. (See page 434.) Cinchona. The three barks iucluded in former Pharmacopoeias are ordered:— Pale Cinchona Baek [(Cinchona pal- lida). From Cinchona Condaminea ; “collected about Loxa, in Ecuador.^* Bed Cinchona Baek (Cinchona eubea). From Cinchona succirubra ; “ collected on the western slopes of Chimborazo.^’ Yellow Cinchona Baek (Cinchona plava). From Cinchona Calisaya ; “ collected in Bolivia and southern Peru.” {f>eQ page 451.) Cinnamon—Cinnamomum. Imported from Ceylon. {Seepage 454.) Citric Acid—Acidum Citeicum. A new process is given for the preparation of this acid:—Lemon juice, 4 pints, is mixed with beer yeast, 2 fi. oz., and allowed to stand for two days at a temperature between 60° and 70^ Fahr. When fermentation has ‘ ceased, the clear liquid is separated from the lees, boiled, and, while hot, gradually neutralized by pre- pared chalk, 4J oz. The deposit, having been collected on .a calico filter and washed with hot water, is mixed with distilled vmter, 2 ' pints; to this mixture is gradually added sulphuric acid, 19 fi. dr., diluted with distilled water. If pint, and the whole is kept boiling for half an hour, with constant stirring. The insoluble matter is collected on a filter, and washed with cold distilled water. The filtrate, to which the washings have been added, is concentrated to sp. gr. 1’21, cooled, and, after 24 hours’ repose, decanted from the crystals (sulphate of lime); concentrated further till a film forms on its surface, and set aside to cool and crystallize. The product may be purified, if necessary, by a second crystallization. (See page 454.) Cloves—Caetophtllum. See page 457, Cocculus Indicus—Cocculus. Described as the dried fruit of Anamirta Cocculus ; produced in Malabar and the E. Archipelago. {Seepage 459.) Cochineal—Coccus. See page 459. Colchicum Corm—Colchici Coemus. See page 465. Colchicum Seed—Colchici Semen. See page 465. Collodion—CoLLODiUM. Described as “py- roxylin, dissolved in ether, mixed with one third of its volume of rectified spirit,” but unfortu- nately the process given for pyroxylin in the Appendix does not yield a soluble product. (See pages 466 to 468—also Pyeoxylin, below.) [The form given in the new edition of the U. S. Ph. differs from that printed on page 466 in some important points, and we there- fore reproduce it here:—Add sulphuric acid (sp. gr. 1*843), I5f oz. (by weight—troy), to nitrate of potash, in fine powder, 10 oz. (troy), in a glass or porcelain vessel, and stir them together until they are uniformly mixed. When the temperature is below 122°, add cotton, freed from impurities, f oz. (troy), and by means of stout glass rods imbue it tho- roughly with the mixture; then cover with a glass or porcelain lid, and allow the whole to stand for 24 hours. Transfer the cotton to a larger vessel, and wash it first with cold water until the washings cease to have an acid taste, and then with boiling water. Press it as dry as possible with the hand, pack it tightly in a conical percolator, and pour upon it ‘ stronger alcohol’ (sp. gr. *817) until the remaining water is displaced, then again press it as dry as possible with the hand. Mix ‘ stronger ether’ (sp. gr. not exceeding *728), 21 fi. oz. (old wine measure = 21 fi. oz. and 7 fi. dr., nearly), with ‘ stronger alcohol,’ 6 fi. oz. (o. w. m. = 6 fi. oz. and 2 fi. dr.), in a suitable bottle, and, having added the moist cotton to the mixture, agitate occasionally until dissolved.] Colocynth—Colocynthis. See page 469. Confections. The following list comprises all the preparations of this class in the Brit. Ph.:— Confection of Hips (Confectio Kos^ CaniNjE). From hips, carefully deprived of their seeds, 1 lb.; refined sugar, 2 lb. (See page 473.) Confection of Peppee (Confectio Pi-