1264 TANNIN—TANNING. wash this precipitate with water strongly acidulated with sulphuric acid, press it be- tween the folds of bibulous paper, and dissolve it in pure water; to this solution gradually add carbonate of lead in very fine powder, and, after agitation and maceration for some time, until the sulpho-tannate is all decomposed, filter, and gently evaporate; lastly, powder the dry residuum, digest it in ether, allow the ether to evaporate spontaneously, and preserve the dry powder from the air. 3. (Pelouze.) From galls, in moderately fine powder, by percolation, in a closed vessel, with sulphuric ether that has been previously agitated with water. After some time the percolated liquid will be found divided into two distinct portions, the lower and heavier one being a watery solution of tannic acid, and the upper one an ethereal solution of gallic ACID and colouring matter. Fresh ether must be passed through the powder as long as the lower stratum of liquid continues to augment. The two fluids are now carefully separated, and after the heavier one has been well washed with ether, it is gently evaporated to dryness, preferably under the receiver of an air-pump, or over sulphuric acid. The ether may be re- covered unaltered from the ethereal solution, by cautious distillation in a retort connected with a Liebig’s condenser supplied with ice- cold water. Prod. About 40g. 4. (Ph. D.) From galls, in tolerably fine powder, 8 oz., and a mixture of sulphuric ether, 3 pints, with water, 5 fl. oz.; by per- colation, in successive portions, like the last ; the aqueous solution of tannic acid being evaporated, and finally dried at a heat not ex- ceeding 212° Fahr. Prop., ^c. Pure tannic acid is perfectly white, but as ordinarily met with it has a slight yellowish colour, owing to the action of the air; it is uncrystallizable; possesses a powerful and purely astringent taste, without bitterness; is freely soluble in water, less so in alcohol, and only very slightly in ether; it reddens vegetable blues; when boiled with acids, it assimilates water and splits into gal- lic ACID and GEAPE SUGAR ; when heated in the dry state, it suffers decomposition, meta- gallic and PYEOGALLIC ACIDS being formed; it unites with the bases, forming salts called TANNATES, which are characterised by striking a deep black with the persalts of iron (ink) ; with gelatine it unites to form leather. Pur. “ Almost colourless. Dissolved in water, it is powerfully astringent. From a solution of isinglass it throws down a certain white precipitate. In other respects its pro- perties correspond with those of gallic acid, before named.” (Ph. L.) Uses, 8(c. The value of substances containing tannin in the preparation of leather is well known. In its pure form it is used as an astringent in medicine; internally, in diar- rhoea, haemorrhages, as a tonic in dyspepsia, &c.; externally, made into a gargle, injection, or ointment. Dose. 1 to 10 gr., under the form of pills or solution. Tannic acid and gelatine are mutually used as tests for each other; a thick flocculent pre- cipitate is formed whenever these substances meet in solution. When a solution of tannin is dropped into another of gelatine, thick flocks are precipitated, which redissolve when heated with the supernatant fluid. The fol- lowing is a useful and simple form for pre- paring this test:—Infuse pounded galls, 1 oz., in hot loater, \ pint, for several hours; strain with pressure, add to the turbid fluid com- mon salt, 2 02., and the next day filter it. The filtrate will retain its transparency and power of precipitating gelatine for years. (‘ Chem. Gaz.’) See Gallic Acid, &c. TAN'NIN. See Tannic Acid {above). TAN'NINQ’. When the skin of an animal, carefully deprived of hair, fat, and other im- purities, is immersed in a dilute solution of tannic acid, the animal matter gradually com- bines with that substance as it penetrates in- wards, forming a perfectly insoluble compound, which resists putrefaction completely; this is TANNED LEATHER. In practice, lime water is used for cleansing and preparing the skin, water acidulated with oil of vitriol for ‘ raising’ or opening the pores, and an infusion of oak bark, or, sometimes, of catechu, or other astrin- gent matter, as the source of tannic acid. The process itself is necessarily a slow one, as dilute solutions only can be safely used. Shins in- tended for the curriers, to be dressed for * uppers,* commonly require about 3 weeks; and ‘ thick hides,* from 12 to 18 months. Of late years various ingenious contrivances , have been adopted, with more or less success, , to hasten the process of tanning skins and ’] hides. Among these may be mentioned the employment of stronger tan solutions, the ap- plication of a gentle heat, puncturing the skins to afford more ready access for the liquid to their interior parts, and maceration in the tan liquor under pressure, either at once or after the vessel containing them has been exhausted of air by means of an air-pump. On the merit of these several methods it has been remarked, “ that the saturated infusions of astringent barks contain much less extractive matter, in proportion to their tannin, than the weak in- fusions ; and when the skins are quickly tanned in the former, common experience shows that it produces leather which is less durable than leather slowly formed.” (Sir H. Davy.) “ 100 lb. of skin, quickly tanned in a strong infusion of bark, produce 137 lb. of leather; while 100 lb., slowly tanned in a w’eak infusion, pro- duce only 117i lb.** “Leather thus highly (and hastily) charged with tannin is, more- over, so spongy as to allow moisture to pass readily through its pores, to the great dis- comfort and danger of persons wearing shoes made of it.” (Ure.) According to Mr. G. Lee, much of the ori- ' ginal gelatine of the skins is wasted in thei ^