368 BRONZING. e. For Medals:—1. Go/ijoer, 89 parts; tin, 8 parts; zinc, 3 parts. This alloy assumes a beautiful antique appearance by age, and takes a sharp impression by stamping. 2. (M. Chaudet.) Copper, 95 parts; tin, 4 or 5 parts. This is also excellent for any small castings. d. For Moetaks :—Copper, 93 parts; lead, 5 parts ; tin, 2 parts. e. For StatuAEY:—1. Copper, 88 parts; tin, 9 parts; zinc, 2 parts; lead, 1 part. 2. Copper, 82^ parts; zinc, 10^ parts; tin, 5 parts ; lead, 2 parts. These are very nearly the proportions of the celebrated statue of Louis XV. 3. Copper, 90 parts; tin, 9 parts; lead, 1 part. 4. Copper, 91 parts; tin, 9 parts. Ohs. Several analyses have been made of ancient cutting-instruments, from which it appears that the proportion of tin varies from 4g to 15§; a fact which tends to prove that more depends on the exact mode of tempering the alloy, than on the relative proportions of the ingredients. Lead and zinc are inad- missible in bronze for this purpose. One or two per cent, of iron may, nevertheless, be added with advantage. The ancient bronze used for springs contained only 3g to 4^ of tin. The edges and lips of bronze mortars must be carefully tempered by heating them to a cherry red, and then plunging them into cold water, as unless so treated they are very apt to be broken in use. See Bell-metal, Beass, Gun-Metal, &c. Bronze. Syn. Beonze'-powdee. A name given to various powders having a rich me- tallic appearance, which they retain when applied on varnish, or when mixed with it, as in ‘ surface bronzing.’ Prep. 1. Gold-coloueed :—a. From Butch- foil, reduced to an impalpable powder by grinding. Cheap and looks well, and is very durable when varnished. h. From gold-leaf, as the last. c. Precipitated powder of gold. d. From verdigris, 8 oz.; txdty-powder, 4 oz.; borax and nitre, of each, 2 oz.; bichloride of mercury, \ oz.; grind them together, make the mixture into a paste with oil, and then fuse it; when cold, roll it into thin sheets or leaves, and grind it as in No. 1. 2. Ieon-coloueed :—Plumbago, in fine powder. 3. Red :—Sulphate of copper, 100 parts; carbonate of soda, 60 parts; mix, and apply heat until they unite into a mass; then cool, powder, and add of copper-filings, 15 parts; again well mix, and keep the compound at a white heat for about twenty minutes; lastly, when cold, reduce the ‘residuum’ to an im- palpable powder, wash it in pure water, and dry it. 4. SiLTEE :—Bismuth and tin, of each, 1 oz. ; melt them together, and add of quicksilver, 1 to 1^ oz.; when cold powder it. Obs. The above are used by painters, japan- ners, &c. See Bisulphueet op Tin, Pow- DEES, &c. (also below). BRONZTNG. The process of giving a bronze-like, or an antique metallic appearance, to the surface of copper, brass, and other metals. The following methods are recom- mended for this purpose :— 1. To the surface of the specimen, first tho- roughly cleaned and polished, evenly apply, with a brush, the common crocus-powder (‘jewellers’ rouge’^), previously made into a smooth paste with water. When dry, place it in an iron ladle, or on a common fire-shovel, and expose it over a clear fire for about one minute; i lastly, when sufficiently cold, polish it with a L plate-brush. This gives a very rich appear- ' ance, similar to that on tea-urns; the shade ! depending on the duration and the degree of a heat employed. j 2. As the last, but substituting finely-pow- dered plumbago for ‘ crocus powder.’ Equally beautiful, but deeper coloured and more per- manent, than that produced by No. 1. 3. As the preceding, but employing mix- tures of plumbago and crocus in various pro- portions, according to the shade desired. ! 4. A dilute solution of liver of sulphur (‘sul- phuret of potassium’), or of hydrosulphuret of \ ammonia, is applied with a camel-hair pencil to i i the medal previously slightly warmed; when dry, the surface is either left rough, or i ( ‘brushed off*.’ If ‘liver of sulphur’has been h used, it will be better to wash it first in clean i hot water; but without the slightest friction. This gives the appearance of very antique bronze. 5. Verdigris, 2 oz.; and sal-ammoniac, 1 oz.; are dissolved in vinegar, 1 pint; and the mix- ture is diluted with water, until it tastes only slightly metallic, when it is boiled for a few ' minutes, and filtered for use. Copper medals, ;ji &c., (thoroughly clean,) are steeped in the liquor at the boiling point, until the desired effect is produced. Care must be taken not to keep them in it too long. When taken out they are carefully washed in hot water, and i dried. Effect as the last. 6. Verdigris and vermilion, of each, 2 oz.; , alum and sal-ammoniac, of each, 5 oz. ; (all in ? fine powder;) vinegar, q. s. to form a thin paste. This is spread over the ‘ surface’ of the I copper, which is then uniformly warmed by I the fire, and afterwards well washed, and * dried. The tint may be deepened by repeating the process. The addition of a little-blue ! vitriol inclines the colour to a chestnut-brown; and a little borax, to a yellowish-brown. Used by the Chinese for copper tea-urns, &c. 7. Sal-ammoniac, 1 oz.; cream of tartar, \ 3 oz. ; common salt, 3 oz. ; hot water, 1 pint; <1 dissolve; then add of nitrate of copper, 2 oz., (I dissolved in ^ a pint of water; mix well, and I with it repeatedly moisten the article (placed i in a damp situation), by means of a soft brush. Produces a very antique appearance. 1 See Sesquioxide of Iron.