SEPIA—SHEEP. 1193 (f its being imported perfectly free froxn idulteration. Senna is purgative in doses of 20 gr. to 1 dr., ither in powder or made into an infusion of lea with water, combined with ginger, cara- ways, or some other aromatic, to prevent triping. It acts chiefly on the small intestines, nd generally effects its purpose within 4 hours fter being taken. SE'TIA. A pigment prepared from the inV or black fluid secreted by Sepia officinalis iLinn.), and several other varieties of cuttle- sh. The contents of the ‘ ink bags’ are in- (pissated as soon as possible after collection, nd then form the ceude sepia of commerce. This is prepared for artists by boiling it for a |hort time in a weak lye of caustic alkali, preci- jitating the solution with an acid, and well hashing and carefully drying the precipitate by j gentle heat. It possesses a fi,ne brown colour, ind is used like Indian ink. ! SER'PENTARY. Syn. Vieghnian snake ioOT; SEEPENTAEIiE EADIX, SeEPENTAEIA Ph. L. & E.), Aeistolochia seepentaeia Ph. D.), L. An excellent stimulating dia- horetic and tonic; in typhoid and putrid jvers, dyspepsia, &c. It is admirably uited to check vomiting and to tranquillise tie stomach, particularly in bilious cases. (Dr. Jhapman.) Bose, 10 to 20 gr., every third jr fourth hour, its use being preceded by an !perient. SE"RUM. Syn, Seealbumen. The clear ,ale fluid in which the blood-globules float, jud which separates from blood during its joagulation. It is, essentially, a feebly alkaline [ilution of albumen. See Albumen. i SESQUI-. See Nomenclatuee. SE'TON. Syn, Setaceum. An artificial leer, made by passing a portion of silk or hread under the skin by means of a seton eedle, a part of which is drawn through laily, and thus keeps up a constant irritation. |*ccasionally, the thread is anointed with some j-ritating substance, for the purpose of in- ireasing the discharge. SE'VTJM (Prepared). Syn. Sevum pe2EPA- !ATUM, Sevum magneticum, L. Prep. 1. ' Pharm. Journ.’) Mould candles, at least 2 ears old, melted by a very gentle heat, and trained from the wicks. 2. As MAGNETIC ADEPS. (See page 43.) hed to make meecueial ointment. Tritu- ated with 8, 12, or 16 times its weight of uicksilver, the globules are completely extin- I uished in from 10 to 15 minutes. I SHAD'DOCE. A large species of orange, he fruit of Citrus Decumana (Linn.). ! SHAGREEN'. This is prepared from the kins of the horse, wild ass, and camel, as fol- !'ws:—The skin, freed from epidermis and air by soaking in water, and, after dressing vith the currier’s fleshing-knife, is sprinkled ■ver, whilst still w'et and stretched, with the eeds of a species of chenopodium, w'hich are Imbedded in it by strong pressure, and in this state it is dried; the seeds are then shaken off, and the surface rubbed or shaved down, nearly to the bottom of the seed-pits or indentations; it is next soaked in water, by which the skin swells, and the recently depressed surface rises into a number of minute prominences; it is, lastly, dyed and smoothed off*. Black is given to it with galls and copperas; blue, with a solution of indigo; green, with copper filings and sal ammoniac; and red, with cochineal and alum. Shagreen was formerly very extensively used for covering the cases of watches, spec- tacles, surgical instruments, &c. SHALLOT'. Syn. Eschalot. The Allium ascalonicum (Linn.), a plant allied to the onion, the bulb of which is much used as a sauce or pot-herb. SHAMPOO'ING. A practice, common in the East, having for its object the increase or restoration of the tone and vigour of the body, or the mitigation of pain. It is applied either in the bath or immediately after quitting it, generally the latter, and consists in pressing and kneading the flesh, stretching and relaxing the joints, and laboriously brushing and scrub- bing the skin. SHARPS. See Floue. SHA'VING. The following are Mr. Mechi’s instructions for this, to many persons, trouble- some operation :—Never fail to well wash your beard with soap and cold water, and to rub it dry, immediately before you apply the lather, of which the more you use the easier you will shave. Never use warm water, which makes a tender face. Place the razor (closed, of course) in your pocket, or imder your arm, to warm it. The moment you leave your bed is the best time to shave. Always put your shaving-brush away with the lather on it. The razor (being only a very fine saw) should be moved in a sloping or sawing di- rection, holding it nearly flat to your face, care being taken to draw the skin as tight as pos- sible with the left hand, so as to present an even surface and throw out the beard. The prac- tice of pressing on the edge of a razor in strop- ping generally rounds it; the pressure should be directed to the back, which must never be raised from the strop. If you shave from heel to point of the razor, strop it from point to heel; but if you begin with the point, then strop from heel to point. If you only once put away your razor without stropping or otherwise cleaning the edge, you must no longer ex- pect to shave well, the soap and damp so soon rust the fine teeth or edge. A piece of plate leather should always be kept with the razors. SHAVING FLUID. See Essence of Soap {page 587). SHEEP. Syn. Ovis, L. The Ovis aries, an animal domesticated almost everywhere. Its flesh supplies us with food; its skin, with leather; its fleece, with wool; and its intes- tines, with catgut. Its fat (sevum) is officinal. See Mutton, Suet, &c.