EMOLLIENTS—EMULSION. 559 I citement in the neighbouring parts, in many i cases of a dangerous and irreparable character. ; Hence many writers on pharmacology deny the f existence of emmenagogues. 1 To ensure the successful administration of this class of medicines, the system must be I previously prepared for their use by invigo- rating it, if there is either relaxation or ! debility; and an opposite course should be j pursued when there is an undue degree of I arterial action. In the majority of cases, the j restoration of the discharge is rather attri- butable to a proper regulation of the system I than to any specific power in the medicine I administered. I EMOLLIENTS. Syn. Emollientia, L. In pharmacy and therapeutics, demulcents of an ! oleaginous, saponaceous, or emulsive character, j applied to surfaces (generally external), to I soften and relax their fibres. See Demul- ' CENTS. ' EMUL'SIN. Sijn. Stnaptase. An azotized substance, forming a large proportion of the white pulp of both bitter and sweet almonds. It is yellowish white, soluble in cold water, and ' coagulated by heat and alcohol. Its most re- ! markable property is its action on amygdaliu, by which the volatile oil of almonds and hydro- cyanic acid, with other products, are formed. It has never been obtained in a state of i purity. I EMUL'SION. Syn. Emtjlsio, L. A milky j fluid, formed by the mechanical admixture of I oil and water, by means of some other sub- ; stance that possesses the power of combining I with both. The emulsions of the London i Pharmacopoeia are now included in the class j Misturce. j In the preparation of emulsions, the oily or resinous ingredients are usually suspended by |W means of mucilage of gum arabic, almonds, or yolk of egg. 1 dr. of the first, made with equal parts of gum and water; 1 oz. of the second (usually 26 in number); and one in no. of the last, will form 2 dr. of any oil into an emulsion with about 1 oz. of water, gradually added. In some cases, instead of the above substances, a little liquor of potassa is employed, by which a i saponaceous emulsion is formed. In all cases, i the mucilage or other viscid substance should be I put into the mortar before anything else. I The oil or resinous matter may then be very i gradually rubbed in, taking care not to add it I more quickly than it can be subdued by the j pestle; and if, during this part of the manipu- i lation, the mixture should begin to assume a I breaking or curdling appearance at the edges, i a few drops of w'ater must be immediately I incorporated with it, before adding the re- 1 mainder of the oil. From the want of this I precaution, it is common for an emulsion sud- denly to lose its tenacious consistence in the ' mortar, and it is then in vain to endeavour to restore it. After the oil is thoroughly incor- porated, some care is requisite to avoid sepa- ' rating it again by too hasty an effusion of the ! I water or other fluid of the mixture. If any alcoholic or acid liquid is to be added, it must be at the very end of the process. Indeed, the addition of an acid liquid, even a slightly acescent syrup, will often entirely destroy an emulsion. Mixtures of copaiba are frequently spoiled by the addition of spirit of nitric ether; a misfortune which might be avoided by first diluting it with one or two parts of water. An excellent method of preparing emulsions of resins and gum-resins, is to put the article into a marble or wedgewood mortar, and to pour over it about 4 times its weight of recti- fied spirit, which is then to be ignited, and the mixture triturated until an equal consistence is obtained. The liquid is then to be added gradually, and the whole patiently triturated or shaken until cold. Yolk of egg or mu- cilage may be added to the fluid resin or gum-resin, if desired, as in the common method, but an excellent emulsion may be made without them. The presence of soluble salts in an emulsion is apt to occasion the separation of the oleagi- nous portion. Spirit produces the same effect in those which are made with yolk or mucilage; and acids in those made with an alkali. The addition of these substances to emulsions should be therefore avoided as much as pos- sible. Emulsions of wax, spermaceti, oil of turpentine, and balsam of copaiba, are the most readily and completely formed with yolk of egg. Volatile oils are more readily made into emulsions if mixed with an equal volume of some simple fixed oil, before proceeding to operate on them. Scammony is generally formed into an emulsion with milk; and resin of jalap, with almonds and water. The following formulae, for certain emul- sions, are merely given here for examples. Various others will be found under Mixttjee, Lotion, Wash, &c. Emulsion of Al'monds. Syn. Mile of al- monds, Almond mixthee; Emhlsio amtg- DAL.®, Misthea, a., L. Prep. 1. Blanched almonds, 1 oz. ; beat them to a smooth paste, add, gradually, water, ^ pint; and when the whole is thoroughly incorporated, strain through a piece of gauze. 2. As the last, adding sugar, 1 oz.; or syrup (either simple or flavoured), fl. oz. See Emulsion of Oil of Almonds {below). Emulsion of Assafcet'ida. Syn. Emulsio Assafcetid^, Mistuea a., L. Prep. (Duclow). Assafcetida, 1 oz.; powdered gum, 2 oz.; oil of almonds, 3^ fl. oz.; water, 6 fl. oz. Anti- spasmodic. Dose. 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls; in hysterical affections, &c. Emulsion of Cam'phor. Syn. Emulsio cam- PHOE.E, E. camphoeata, Mistuea CAM- PHOEAE (Ph. E.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. Castr. Ruth., 1840.) Camphor, \ dr.; triturate with milk, ^ fl. oz., gradually added ; then further add of water, 7^ fl. oz. 2. (Ph. E.) Camphor, 20 gr.; lump sugar.