640 FILTRATION. ranged, it will sink through the filter c, and pipe d, into the lower chamber 6', and this filtration will go on as long as the supply con- tinues, and water is drawn from the cock e. By uniting the cock e with a tank or casks, and by keeping the upper portion B always full by means of a ball-cock, a considerable quantity of water may be thus filtered. The | advantage of this plan is, that the filter c can | be always readily got at, and easily cleaned or renewed. For filtering water on the small scale, and for domestic use, ‘ alcaeazzas,’ diaphragms of POROUS EAETHENWAEE and EILTEEING-STONE, and layers of sand and charcoal, &c., already referred to, are commonly employed as filtering media. The filtering power of porous stone or earthen- ware may be greatly increased by adopting the arrangement represented in the margin, which consists in making the / diaphragm of the shape of a disc (d), supporting plates of the same material, the whole forming hut one piece. Tlie ‘ platylithic WATER-FILTERS,’ which are formed of porous stone cut on this plan, present 200 to 300 square inches of filtering surface. The ‘ port- able FILTERS,’ set up in stone-ware, that are commonly sold in the shops, contain a stratum of sand, or coarsely-powdered charcoal; before, however, having access to this, the water has to pass through a sponge, to remove the coarser portion of the impurities. Among the many new kinds of portable filters now offered for sale are two which claim special notice, viz., the ‘ MOULDED CARBON FILTER,’ Consisting of a spherical or cylindrical vessel formed of com- pressed carbon; and the * silica ted carbon FILTER,’ in which the medium is a compact substance, formed of animal charcoal and the ashes of Boghead coal. Oils are filtered, on the small scale, through cotton-wool, or unsized paper, arranged in a funnel; and on the large scale, through long hags, made of tweeled cotton-cloth (Canton ^ flannel). These s bags are usually ® ^ made about 12 or 15 inches in diame- I c 6*0 ter, and from 4 to 8 t; 2 p feet long (see engr.), \ i'T; and are inclosed in 5 I'2 bottomless casings, c of coarse " canvas, about 5 to S m 6 or 8 inches in dia- g'i meter, for the pur- ^ pose of condensing a great extent of fil- tering surface into the smallest possible space. A number of these double bags (from 1 to 50 or 60) are connected with corresponding holes in the bottom of a bloclc-tin or tinned-copper cistern, into which the oil to be filtered is poured. The mode in which these bags are fastened to the cistern is of the utmost im- portance, as on the joint being close and secure depends the integrity of the apparatus. Three methods of doing this are figured in the en- graving, which, with the references, will ex- plain themselves, the same letters referring to I the same parts of ea’ch. a. Bottom of cistern. b. rilteiing bag. c. Screw ot the conical nozzle fitting info the cistern. d. Hiiulirtg cord connecting the bag and nozzle. e. Binding cord connecting bag and lower nozzle. /. Bayonet-catch, connecting the lower portion of the nozzle fastened to the bag with the upper and fixed part, g. i. The fliick hem at the top of the Iiag (purposely made large by enclosing apiece of thick cord therein), resting on the shoulders k. 1. A metallic cylinder, loosely fitting the hole in the c’stern, and over whicli the top of the bag is drawn, before being put into its place; %vhcn fitted, as in the engraving, it retains the hem i securely in its place above the shoulder k. The second of the above arrangements is the least expensive, and certainly the most convenient in practice; and when the cy- linder / fits the hole closely (allowing for the bag), is as safe, or safer, than an ordinary screw. The bags are surrounded by a wooden screen fitted up with doors for the purpose of keep- ing olF the dust; and the bottom of the apart- ment is furnished with large steam-pipes, by which a proper temperature may be kept up in cold weather. The use of heat should, - however, never be had recourse to when can be avoided, as although it vastly increases the rate of filtration, the oil so filtered is more apt to become opaque in cold weather than when the process is conducted at the natural temperature of the atmosphere. This is particularly the case with castor OIL and SPERM OIL. In the United States of America, where the latter is consumed in enormous quantities for illumination, the best is always ‘ winter strained/ as it is popularly called. In practice, it is more convenient to have a number of small cisterns at work (say 50 or 100 galls, each), than one or two larger ones; as any accident that may occur is more easily remedied, and that without stopping the whole operation. When cotton-cloth bags are employed with- out being ‘ creased/ or enclosed in others of canvass, they should not be longer than about j 3 or 4 feet, and not wider thati about 5 or 6 inches when filled. When larger they are dangerous. I A convenient method of filtering a single cask of oil, is to insert the pipe of a two-way j|