1251 SULPHUKATION—SULPHURIC ACID. prolapsus aiii, &c. Externally, it is extensively used in skin diseases, especially the itch, for which it appears to he a specific. Bose. 12 or 15 gr. to 2 dr., in sugar, honey, treacle, or milk. I Bro'mide of Sulphur. A reddish, oily-look- ing liquid, prepared by dissolving sulphur in bromine. It is easily decomposed, particularly tby water. Chlo"rides of Sulphur. 1. (Dichloeide or jSUBCHLOEiDE.) Prepared by passing dry ^chlorine gas over the surface of sulphur melted tin a bulbed-tube or small retort connected with i well-cooled receiver. The product is a deep lorange-yellow and very mobile liquid, which possesses a disagreeable odour, and boils at 280'’ Fahr. ! 2. (Chloeide or Peotochloeide.) A red lliquid, formed by exposing the dichloride for jiome time to the action of chlorine, and then jlistilling it in a stream of that gas. It junks in water, and boils at 147° Fahr. (See ^helow.) 3. (Chloeide, Htpochloeide, or Hypo- HLOEITE of the shops; SULPHUEIS CHLO- RIDUM, S. HYPOCHLOEIDm, S. HTPOCHLO- | RiTis, L.) This is prepared by spreading ^ washed sulphur thinly on the bottom of a vooden box, or other chamber, and passing chlorine gas slowly over it until it ceases to be j ibsorbed. Obs. This last compound is of variable and j ! mdetermined constitution. It has been re- j poramended for internal use, by Derksengi, in | pld gouty affections, combined with pains in ';he stomach, and in severe nervous fever. Bose. ^ to 2 gr., dissolved in ether, and taken |.vith old Hungary wine. It is also used ex- 'ernally in psoriasis inveterata, and other skin liseases. I I'odide of Sulphur. Syn. Biniodide op isULPHUE; Sdlphueis iodidijm (Ph. L.), '•5ULPHUE lODATUM (Pli. D.), L. Prep. Into ji glass flask put 1 part of sublimed sulphur, lind over it place 4 parts of iodine ; insert the ^!ork loosely, and place the flask in a water ^')ath; as soon as its contents melt, stir them l.vith a glass rod, replace the cork, remove the jbath from the fire, and let the whole cool toge- ther. When cold, break the iodide into pieces, iind place it in a wide-mouthed stoppered i)ottle. In this way a beautiful semi-crystalline, ilark gray mass, resembling antimony, is ob- !:ained. The formulae of the Ph. L. E. & D., llfli. U. S. & P. Cod., are essentially similar. The Ph. D. orders the two substances to be liowdered and mixed before heating them, i Uses, ^c. It is stimulant and alterative. An ointment made of it has been recom- mended by Biett and others in tuberculous liffections of the skin, in lepra, psoriasis, lupus, Jorrigo, &c. Iodide of sulphur stains the skin like iodine, and is readily decomposed by contact with or- jjanic substances. “ From 100 gr., diligently lioiled in water, a residue of about 20 gr. of liulphur is obtained.’’ (Ph. L.) SULPHURA'TION. The processby which silk, cotton, and woollen goods, straw plait, &c., are subjected to the fumes of burning sulphur, or sulphurous acid, for the purpose of bleaching or decolouring them. On the large scale, this is effected in closed apartments, called ‘ sulphur- ing rooms’ to which sufficient air only is ad- mitted to keep up the slow combustion of the sulphur. On the small scale, as for straw hats, bonnets, &c., a large wooden chest is frequently employed in the same w'ay. SUL'PHURET. Syn, Sulphide; Sulphu- EETUM, SULPHIDUM, L. Sulphurets are com- pounds of sulphur with the electro-positive or inflammable bodies. The sulphurets are prepared by—heating a mixture of the metal and sulphur, in equiva- lent proportions, in a covered crucible,—by igniting a mixture of the metallic oxide and sulphur,—by depriving a sulphate of the base of its oxygen, % igniting it in contact with charcoal,—or, by precipitating a salt of the base by sulphuretted hydrogen or a soluble me- tallic sulphuret. The sulphurets are mostly opaque, brittle, fusible, semi-metallic bodies, insoluble in water; those of MEECUEY and aesenio are volatile, and those of the alkalies and the eaeths soluble in water. The sulphurets often unite among them- selves, forming crystallizable compounds ana- logous to oxygen salts, and hence termed SULPHOSALTS by chemical writers. The insoluble sulphurets may be either tested directly, by treating them with dilute sul- phuric acid, when they evolve sulphuretted hydrogen, or by converting their sulphur into sulphuric acid, in the manner noticed under SULPHUE. Niteopeusside op SODIUM has recently been proposed by Dr. Playfair as a most deli- cate test for the alkaline sulphurets, with which it strikes a most beautiful violet colour. This salt is prepared by treating 2 parts of pow- dered ferrocyanide of potassium with 5 parts of common nitric acid, previously diluted with its own volume of water ; the solution, after eff'ervescence has ceased, is digested by a gentle heat, until salts of protoxide of iron no longer yield with it a blue, but a slate-coloured, pre- cipitate ; it is now allowed to cool, after which it is filtered, neutralized with carbonate of soda, and again filtered; the filtrate, on eva- poration, gives a crystallization of nitrate of potassa and soda, together with the new salt; the crystals of the latter are then selected and purified by crystallization. They are rhombic, and of a splendid ruby colour. SULPHURET TED HY'DROGEN. See page 745. SULPHU'RIC ACID. Syn. Oil of viteiol, BeITISH O. of Y., VitEIOLIC ACIDf ; ACIDUM SULPHUEICUM (Ph. L, & E.), Acidum sul- phueicum venale (Ph. D.), Acidum yiteio- LicuMf, L. This acid, in a concentrated form, was discovered by Basil Valentine