ERGOTINE—ERUPTIONS. 574 hemorrhage, and to accelerate the contraction of the uterus in protracted labour. It is also much used as an emmenagogue. Dose. To facilitate labour, 10 to 20 gr., either in powder or made into an infusion; repeated at intervals of 20 or 30 minutes until 3 or 4 scruples have been tahen. In other cases (leucorrhoea, he- morrhages, &c.) the dose is 5 to 12 gr., three times daily, for a period not longer than a week or ten days at a time. See Decoction, Exteact, Infusion, Oil, Tinctuee, &c. EE'GOTmE. Syn. Eegotina, L. Prep. 1. (Bonjean’s.) Powdered ergot is exhausted with cold waler, by displacement, and the resulting solution is heated in a water bath to about 200° Fahr., and filtered; the filtered liquor is then evaporated to the consistence of a syrup, and when cold, is treated with recti- fied spirit, in considerable excess, to precipi- tate its gummy matter; after repose, the clear portion is decanted, by the heat of a water bath, to the consistence of a soft extract. Prod. 15^. According to M. Bonjean, this preparation possesses all the ‘ ha;mostatic without any of the ‘poisonous’ qualities of ergot. It has a reddish-brown colour, a bitter taste, and an odour somewhat resembling that of roasted meat. Its aqueous solution is red, limpid, and transparent. Dose. 4 to 10 gr., either made into a pill or dissolved in water. 2. (Wigger’s.) Powdered ergot is ■ first di- gested in elher, to remove the fatty matter, and then in boiling alcohol; the alcoholic tinc- ture is evaporated, and the resulting extract treated with water; the undissolved portion, dissolved in hot alcohol and filtered, yields pure ergotine by gentle evaporation. Prod. I5 §. It has a brownish-red colour; is resi - nous, acrid, bitter, insoluble in water and ether, soluble in alcohol, and poisonous. It evolves a peculiar odour when warmed. Its therapeutical action has not been determined. See Exteact. ER'RHINES. Syn. Eeehina, L. Substances applied to the pituitary membrane of the nose, for the purpose of producing an increased dis- charge of nasal mucus. When they are given to excite sneezing, they are called steenu- TATOEIES or TTAEMics. Asarahacca, euphor- hium, several of the lahiatce (herba3 vel flores), sal ammoniac, powdered sugar, subsulphate of mercury, tobacco, and white hellebore, are the principal substances of this class. Errhines act as local irritants, and are occasionally employed in chronic aftections of the eyes, face, ears, and brain; as in aman- rosis, ophthalmia, deafness, weak sight, head- ache, &c. Al'um Errliine. Syn. Eeehinuai aluminis, L. Prep. (Radius.) Alum and Armenian bole, of each, 1 dr.; kino, \ dr.; red oxide of iron, 2 dr.; (all in powder;) mix, and triturate. In bleeding at the nose. A little is snuffed up the nostrils. Hsemostat'ic ErrMne. Syn. Eeeiiinum hje- M03TATICU3, L. Prep. From powdered cate- chu, 1 dr.; opium, 5 gr.; sugar, 2 dr. As the last. ERUPTIONS (of the Skin). For brevity and convenience, these cutaneous affections may be divided into 5 classes :— Animal'cular Eruptions. These are due to the presence of minute jaarasites (acaei), which burrow and breed in the scarf-skin, and occa- sion much local irritation. See Itch. Pap'ular Eruptions. Syn. Dey Pin;PLES. In these the surface is raised into little ele- vations or pniPLES, Avhich sometimes show themselves on the surface, and at others are only appreciable by the touch. They are usually accompanied with a greater or less degree of cutaneous irritation and troublesome itching, in attempting to relieve which they are frequently converted into disagreeable and painful sores and excoriations, which are often difiicult to heal. Treat. In simple cases, where there is not much disarrangement of the general health, these eruptions commonly yield to the occa- sional use of mild saline aperients, and warm or tepid bathing, or frequent ablution^xVeawarm soap-and-water. Sea-bathing is also a power- ful remedy. Stimulants of all kinds should be avoided, and ripe fruit and vegetables should form a prominent part of the diet. Lemonade, made by squeezing a lemon into a tumbler of water, and sweetening the mixture with a little sugar, is one of the best beverages on these occasions. To relieve the itching, brisk fric- tion with a soft flesh-brush may be had re- course to, followed by the use of a lotion formed b}'^ adding the juice of a lemon or a wine-glassful of distilled vinegar, to f of a pint or a pint of water, either with or without the addition of a table-spoonful of glycerine. Oc- casional single pimples, depending on local causes, generally require no particular treat- ment. See Lichen, Peueigo, Red Gum, and Tootheash. Pus'tular Eruptions. Syn. Matteey pim- ples. These are distinguished by the pimples (pustules) containing an opaque yellow fluid or matter (pus, lymph). “They are gene- rally developed on a ground of inflamed skin; and the degree of this inflammation of the skin is the basis of their division into two groups, termed technically ‘ impetigo’ and ‘ ecthyma.’ The former presents the slighter degree of inflammation, and, sometimes, there is scarcely any redness of the skin; the latter is always accompanied by considerable inflam- mation and redness.” “The little bubbles attain their full size in the course of two or three days, and either dry up without breaking, or more frequently burst and then dry, form- ing a hard crust, which offers considerable variety of colour, being sometimes yellowish, sometimes brownish, and sometimes almost black.” The latter form is popularly known as ‘ crusted tetter.’ In ecthyma the pustules “ are generally of the size of a split pea, and surrounded at their base by a broad halo of