BEEB. 296 Biti/er Beer, Bitter Ale. Properly, ‘ pale ale ’ or ‘ East-India ale,’ already noticed. That usually sold under the name is, however, merely a superior kind of table-beer which has been boiled with twice or thrice the quantity of hops used for ordinary ale; part of the hops, not infrequently, being replaced by less expensive ‘ bitter drugs,’ to the manifest injury of the unfortunate consumers, who generally swallow it with a degree of self-complacency and faith in its tonic and stomachic powers, which is absolutely enviable. Two'peniiy Beer (tup'-en-e[j;). Syn. Two- penny|. a cheap beer formerly drank in cold weather as a ‘ warmer ’ or stimiTlant, and frequently when only a week old. The fol- j lowing formula is that of a brewer once cele- brated for this beverage; Malt, 3 bushels; hops and Spanish juice, of each, 2 lb. ; burnt sugar, ^ lb. ; corianders, loz. ; Guinea-pepper, .and grains of paradise, of each, ^ oz. To pro- duce 3 times the malt. The ‘ drugs ’ were, of course, introduced surreptitiously. Wheat'en Beer, Whea^-malt Beer. See Mum. Besides malt-liquor, or ' beee ’ properly so called, a somewhat similar beverage, though of inferior quality, may be prepared from any vegetable substance rich in starch and sugar, as noticed in our article on Beewinu. Certain * summer beverages ’ also pass under the name; but in both the cases referred to, the name of the characteristic ingredient, or that of the vegetable employed, is always conjoined; as in pea-shell beer, potato-beer, ginger-beer, &c. Examples of some of these are given below :— Gin'ger Beer. Syn. CeeevisTa (-vizh'-) zinuib'eeis, C. zingibeea'ta^, C. cum zingib'eee* (-ei’.e), L. Prep.\. Lump-sugar, 1 lb.; good unbleached Jamaica ginger (well- bruised), 1 oz.; cream of tartar, | oz. (or tartaric acid, ^ oz) / 2 or 3 lemons (sliced); boiling water, 1 gal.; macerate, with frequent stirring, in a covered vessel, until barely luke- warm, then add of yeast, 1^ or 2 oz., (about § a wine-glassful), and keep it in a moderately warm place, to excite a brisk fermentation; the next day rack or decant the liquor, and strain it through a jelly-bag or flannel; allow it to work for another day, or two, according to the weatlrer; then skim it, again decant or strain, and put it into bottles, the corks of which should be ‘ wired ’ down. 2. Good white sugar, 18 to 24 lb. ; lemon- juice or lime-juice, 1 quart; finest Narbonne honey, 1 or 2 Ih.; bruised Jamaica ginger, 1^ lb.; pure soft water (that has been boiled, and then allowed to settle), q. s. Boil the ginger in 3 gal. of the water for half an hour ; then add the sugar, the juice, and the honey, with sulficient water (see above) to make the whole measure 18i gal., and strain the mixture as before. When the liquor has become almost cold, add the white of 1 egg, and i fl. oz. of essence of lemon, and strongly agitate the cask or vessel for about half an hour. After ‘ stand- ing ’ 3 to 6 days, according to the state of the weather, bottle it, and place the bottles on their sides in a cellar, just as is done with wine or beer. It will be ready for use in about 3 weeks, and will keep good for several months. If wanted for immediate use, about ^ pint of yeast may be added, as in formula 1; but then it will not keep so well, or l)c quite so transparent and free from deposit. The ‘ lemon-juice ’ and ^ essence of lemon ’ may be replaced, at will, by cream of tartar (in powder) or tartaric acid, 4 oz. ; and lemons (sliced), li to 2 doz.; added with the ‘ sugar,’ &c.; but the original formula is preferable.— Prod. 18 gal. = 24 doz. ^-pint bottles, or 30 doz. ordinary-sized ones. 3. Extempoeaneous :—a. Into each bottle put concentrated essence of ginger, 1 drop; simple syrup or capillaire, ^ oz.; (or in lieu of them, syrup of ginger and simple syrup, of each, a dessert-spoonful;) and fill with aerated soda-water at the ‘ bottling machine,’ in the usual way. Very superior. b. Into each bottle put two or three lumps of sugar, fill them to the proper height with puAre water, throw in (quickly) an effervescing ginger-beer powder, and ‘instantly’ cork the bottle, and secure the ‘ cork ’ with wire. Use. As a cooling and refreshing drink in warm weather; and as a restorative after hard drinking, fatigue, &c. Obs. The products of all the above ‘for- mulae,’ if well-managed, are excellent; those of No. 2, and 3a., of the very finest description, much stronger and superior to nine-tenths of that sold for the ‘ best ’ in the shops. They are often called, by way of distinction, Limo"- NIATED GiXGEE-BEEE, ImPEEIAL G.-B., &C. Cheaper articles are made by omitting some of the ingredients, and particularly a portion of the ‘sugar.’ The ginger-beer vended at Id. and 2d. a bottle, with that known as Gingee Pop, Impe"eial Pop, &c., are generally made with moist sugar, (^ to f lb. to the gal.), and merely flavoured with a little coarse ginger. Xo. 2, made with 2 lb. of sugar to the gal., may be kept 2 years, if not bottled for six months, and well-stored; and with 3 lb. to the gal., for 4 years, when it forms a splendid article of gixgee-champagxe. See Beewixg, POWDEES, &C. Pine Beer. See Speuce Beee. Spruce Beer. Syn. CeeeyisTa (-vizh’-) abi'etis, C. abieti'xa, C. abietTca*, L. Prep. 1. Sugar, 1 lb.; essence of spruce, | oz.; boiling water, 1 gal.; mix well, and, when nearly cold, add of yeast, ^ a wine-glassful; and the next day bottle like ginger-beer. 2. Essence of spruce, i pint; pimento and ginger (bruised), of each, 5 oz.; hops, ^ lb.; water, 3 gal. ; boil the whole for 10 minutes, then add of moist sugar, 12 lb. (or good treacle, \4ilb); warm water, 11 gal.; mix well, and, when only lukewarm, further add of yeast, 1 pint; after the liquid has fermented for about 24 hours, bottle it. Prop., uses, ^c. Diuretic and antiscorbutic.