FACE AGUE—FAINTING. 630 or eiglit canals (‘lachrymal ducts’), which issue from the gland, and open on the internal surface of the upper eyelid. The tears, secreted hy the gland, pass over the surface of the eye to two orifices puncta lachrymalia'), one in each lid, at the internal angle. From these points the tears are conveyed by canals into the ‘ lachrymal sac,’ and thence % the ‘ nasal duct’ into the cavity of the nose. The anterior part of the globe of the eye is completely covered hy a delicate mucous membrane, called the ‘ conjunctive membrane’ (‘ membrana con- junctiva’), which also lines the internal parts of the eyelids. The globe or ball of the eye is composed of three enveloping ‘ coats’ and three ^refracting humours’ The outermost coat is the ‘ sclerotic’ (‘ tunica sclerotica’), a white, tough, fibrous membrane, into the front of which the transparent ‘ cornea’ is let in like a watch-glass. The middle coat, called the ‘ choroid’ (‘ membrana choroides’), is formed of blood-vessels, and has a layer of black pigment on the inner side. The innermost coat is the ‘ retina,’ an expansion of the ‘ optic nerve.’ The ‘ iris,’ so called from its varied tints, may be regarded as a process of the ‘ choroid,’ with which it is continuous. It is a thin, flat, cir- cular, membranous curtain, hanging vertically in the ‘ aqueous humour,’ in front of the ‘ lens,’ and* having a central orifice, termed the ‘pupil,’ for the transmission of light. The ‘ iris’ is muscular in structure, and has great power of contracting or expanding the pupil, so as to admit more or less light into the inte- rior of the eyebaU. The space between the ‘ cornea’ and the ‘ lens,’ on each side of the ‘ iris,’ is filled with the ‘ aqueous humour.’ This serves to distend the ‘cornea,’ to allow the free motion of the ‘ iris,’ and to direct the rays of light as they pass through it. The next refracting humour is the ‘crystalline lens,’ a transparent body situated behind and opposite to the ‘ pupil’; in form it is double convex, the posterior surface being more con- vex than the anterior. The ‘ vitreous humour’ fills the bulk of the globe; it is perfectly transparent, and is enclosed in a delicate mem- brane, called the ‘ hyaloid.’ The globe of the eye may be regarded as a perfect optical api^a- ratus, which subserves the purpose of throwing images of external objects upon the sensitive structure which communicates v/ith the senso- rium. In order that vision may be distinct, it is necessary that the pencils of rays diverging from each point of the object and entering the pupil should converge to a focus on the retina. Near-sightedness (‘ myopia,’ L.) is due to the too great convexity of either the ‘lens’ or ‘ cornea,’ causing the rays to converge to a focus before reaching the retina. The specta- cles worn by myopic persons have concave glasses, which, by increasing the divergence of the rays falling upon the eye, have the effect of carrying 1,'ack each focal point towards the retina. In the long-sight of old people (‘ pkes- BTOPIA,’ L.), the foci of the refracted pencils are situated behind the retina, the ‘lens’ or the ‘cornea’ being not sufficiently convex. This defect is corrected by conve-x glasses, which increase the convergence of the incident rays. See AMArsosis, Asthenopy, Astig- matism, Blindness, Colour Blindness, Vi- sion, &c. Eye Drops. See Water (Eye). Eye Pow'ders. See Collyria. Eye Salve. See Ointment (Eye). Eye Snuff. See Snufp. Eye Waters. See Water. FACE A'GUE. The common name for the intermittent form of facial neuralgia or Tic ] douloureux. See Neuralgia. FACE PAINTS. Syn. Fards, Fr. See ' Bloom, Carmine, Pearl White, Eouge, &c. ! FAC-SIMTLE. An exact imitation of an original in all its traits and peculiarities. The ! term is chiefly used in relation to copies of old manuscripts, or of the handwriting of famous men, or of interesting documents, : produced by engraving or lithography. See ■! Signatures. FACTI"TI0US. Syn. Factitius, L. Ar- . tificial; made by art, in distinction from that ' produced by nature. Numerous illustrations of the application of this word occur in the pages of the present work. F.ffi'CES. Excrement. In the laboratory, the ‘settling’ or sediment deposited by a liquid. See Defecation. FAINTING. Syn. Swooning ; Syncope, Deliquium animi, L. In pathology, a state in which the respiration and circulation are apparently suspended for a time, or are ex- tremely feeble. The symptoms are too well , known to require description. The causes are ^ supposed to be—diminished energy of the ' brain, and organic affections of the heart or neighbouring vessels. This has lead nosolo- gists to divide syncope into two varieties:— 1. Occasional (syncope occasionalis, s. ACCIDENTALIS, L.), primitively induced by sudden and violent emotions of the mind, powerful odours, derangement of the stomach or bowels, constrained position of the body, tight-lacing, pressure, loss of blood, debility from disease, &c. This variety is frequently followed by vomiting, and, occasionally, by convulsions or epileptic fits. The recovery is accelerated by the horizontal position, without the head being the least elevated, by which the arterial blood is more vigorously thrown upon the brain, and thereby stimulates it to resume its usual functions. Pungent sub- stances {smelling-bottle, vinaigrette, &c.) may be applied to the nostrils, and cold water sprinkled on the face and chest. In all cases the dress (corset, waist-band, neck-cloth, &c.) should be instantly loosened, and indeed this is the first assistance which should be given, either in syncope or apoplexy. As soon as the j