131 AMALGAM. used to stop local bleediuy, to spread plasters \nx an iroii-ladie, I'emove it Irouii he hre, and on, as a compress^ and for other like purposes. | add of mercury (hot), 3 oz.; stir the whole When covered with resin-plaster, it forms an j well together with an iron-rod, pour it into a excellent article for the protection of abraded ; well-chalked wooden box, and agitate it violently surfaces. A small piece thus prepared, of a { until cold; or instead of this, it may be briskly circular shape, having a round hole cut in the stirred until cold, and then powdered. It middle, the size of the apex of the corn, is should be preserved in a corked glass-bottle, jone of the very best known; as I 2. (La Eaume.) Zinc,2i oz.; grain-tin,\ oz.; from its great softness it at once protects the | bees^ wax, if oz.; melt, add of mercury, 6 o. jpart from pressure, and removes the cause. I As a material for shoe-socks it is superior to [all other substances. The amadou for surgical purposes must not contain nitre. See Eole- Irus, Ac. ! AMAL'GAM. [Eng., Ger.] Syn. Amal'- and otherwise proceed as> efore. Preferred by some to all other mixtures. 3. Zinc, 2 oz.; inercitry, 5 oz. Use. To cover the cushions of electrical machines. A little of the powder is poured on a piece of paper, crushed smooth with a flat ji>AMA, L. j Amalg^ame, Fr. In chemistry and j knife, and then spread thinly on the surface of metallurgy, an alloy containing quicksilver;! the cushion or ruober, previously slightly more particularly one in which that metal j smeared with tallow; or the powder may be l>lays a conspicuous part. Medallists impro- j ‘rubbed down’ with a little tallow, prior to the perly apply this term to all soft alloys. | application of it. See Eise'lpheket of Ti>", Mercury unites with many of the metals by | &c. mere contact; and with some of them, as gold, i Gild'ing Amalgam. Syn. Amalgam of gold. silver, tin, and lead, in certain proportions, | Prejw. Take of grain-gold, 1 part; mercury, without losing its fluidity. In a few cases, as ■ 8 parts; i)ut them into a small iron-saucepan with potassium, this union is attended wdth j or ladle, and apply a gentle heat, using a onsiderable violence, and with the production jf light and heat. Urep. Most of these compounds may be formed by agitating or rubbing the mercury with the other metal, or metals, in the state of tilings or smallfragments, either with or without heat; or with the easily fusible metals, by jiadding it to them in the melted state; care r heitig taken, in both cases, that the heat be iliiot sufficient to volatilise the mercury. Prop., uses, H^'c. Some amalgams are solid, iind not unfrequently crystalline; others are fluid. Of the latter, several crystallise after a time, becoming solid; being probably, merel^f solutions of the ‘ solid amalgams’ in excess of mercury. The amalgams of gold, silver, tin, zinc, Ac., are extensively employed in gilding, silvering, and dentislry, and in other useful irts and manufactures. See Mekcuey, Elec- TKOTYPE, Gilding, Silyeeing, Ac. Ammoni'acal Amalgam. An unstaple com- ))Ound produced when a globule of mercury is ])laced in a small cavity formed in a piece of smooth piece of iron as a stirrer; when the solution or combination is complete, j)onr it out on a clean plate or smooth stone slab. Use. To gild brass, copper, Ac., in the com- mon process of wash or fire gilding (which see). A less proportion of gold, than the above, is used when a thin and cheap gilding is required; as by increasing the quantity of the mercury, the same weight of the precious metal may be extended over a much larger surface. Sil'vering Amalgam.—a. For metals. Syn. Amalgam of Silyee. Prep., uses, Sfc. As the last, but substituting silver for ‘ gold.’ b. For GLASS. Prep.—1. Lead, tin, and bismuth, of each, 1 oz.; bees’ wax or resin, -4 oz.; melt, skim off the dross, cool to the lowest point at which the mixture will remain liquid, and add of quicksilver, 10 oz.; mix well with an iron rod. 2. Lead and tin, of each, 1 oz.; bismuth, 2 oz.; quicksilver, 4 oz. ; as the last. Uses, For silvering the insides of hollow glass vessels, globes, convex mirrors, Ac. \sal ammoniac, and the negative pole of a power- The glass being thoroughly cleaned and dried, |/«/ galvanic battery is brought into contact | is carefully warmed, and the amalgam, ren- with the ‘ metal,’ and the positive pole, with ! dered fluid by a gentle b.eat, is poured in, and [the ‘ ammoniacal salt.’ In a few seconds the ■jnew compound {amalgam), of a ramified shape, rand of the consistence of butter, is formed. On j,|j\\ ithdrawing the influence of the battery, the , Jwhole returns to its former condition. Ey put- iting an amalgam of potassium into the mois- tened cavity of the sal ammoniac, similar iresults are obtained. The phenomena attending 4he formation of this new substance have been Uirged as evidence o^nitrogen being a compound, 1 tin, 4 oz., with bismuth, 1 oz.; add quicksilver, land of the existence of the theoretical base I 1 02., and stir till cold; then grind it very fine .\MMONiUii. It is probably a ternary com-1 with white-of-egg or with varnish, and apply |bination of hydrogen, mercury, and nitrogen. ! the mixture to the figure or surface with a soft Elec'trical Amalgam. Pi'ep. 1. Take of brush. It is used in several of the ornamental jc//<e and grain-tin, of each, 1 oz.; melt them | trades. the vessel turned round and round, so as to bring the metal into contact with every part which it is desired to cover. At a certain tem- perature it will be found to readily adhere to the glass. The excess is then poured out, and the vessel set aside to cool. Tooth Amalgams. See Dentistey and Tooth-CEMENTS. Var'nisher’s Amalgam. Prep. Melt grain-