BUTTER-MILK—BUTYRIC ACID. 375 ■ roughly freed from dust by sifting), and strain- ing it through clean flannel. A better and less troublesome method is to well wash the ‘bvitter’ first with some good new milk, and next with cold spring-water. Butyric acid, on the pre- sence of which rancidity depends, is freely ( solrfble in fresh milk. f The turnip-fiavour, arising from the cows > being fed on turnips or cabbages, is said to be f removed by one or other of the following f methods:—1. When the milk is strained into j the pans, put to every 6 gal., 1 gal. of boiling % water.—2. Dissolve 1 oz. of nitre in a pint of I' spring-water, and put a i pint of the ‘ solution’ V to every 15 gal. of milk.—3. Keep back a i pint of the sour cream when you churn, and 9 put it into a well-scalded pot, into which you 1 are to gather the next cream; stir that well, ii and do so with every fresh addition. Each of t these methods come on good authority, but we |i are bound to say, that our own experience does i! not confirm their constant success. We have ) found that the addition of a handful of salt to I the water used to wash the butter, is as good a ‘f plan as any. ’ We have been less diffuse on the subject of I butter-making in this edition than in the last, 1 in consequence of most dairy-farmers now 9 using one or other of the 'patent churns’ to ' every purchaser of which ample printed di- > rections of the most reliable character are ( always given. See Benzoic Acid, Benzoin, I Daiey, Fat, Ghee, Oils (Fixed), Salt, &c. i (also below). Ancho'vy Butter. From anchovies (boned and beaten to a paste), 1 part; butter, 2 parts j j spice, q. s. Clar'ified Butter. Fresh butter melted in a > water-bath, allowed to settle, and the clear 1 portion poured into an earthenware basin or pot, set in cold water, so as to cool it as ' quickly as possible, without allowing it to crystallise. It keeps a long time without becoming rank. See Buttee, No. 1., page 374 {ante). Hon'ey Butter. Fine Narbonne-honey, 2 to 4 oz.; mixed with good butter, 1 lb. Used as a delicacy for children, and by the sick and aged. Lem'on Butter. See Oeange Buttee. Melt'ed Butter. This well-known sauce may be prepared of excellent quality as follow^s :— Beat up about 1 oz. of fine fiour with 4 oz. of butter, in the cold, until they arc evenly and thoroughly mixed, then add 4 or 5 table- spoonfuls of hot milk, put the whole into a small saucepan, and continue shaking it, all in one direction, until it simmers very gently; I lastly, remove it from the fire, and pour it into the ^butter-boats,’ for use. These last should be filled with hot water, and then emptied and wiped dry, before putting the melted butter into them. See Sauces. Or'ange Butter. Prep. 1. From 6 eggs, 2 oz. of powdered sugar, and 4 oz. of butter, well beaten together with a little orange- fiower water. Sometimes 1 or 2 oz. of blanched almonds, or of almond-paste, is added. 2. Butter, 1 lb.; syrup of orange-peel, 4 oz. Both are eaten as a delicacy. Lemon-buttee is made in a similar manner. Butter of An'timony*J. Terchloride of an- timony. Butter of Caca'o. See Co'coa, and Co'coa- nut Oil. Butter of Nut'megs. Collected from the surface of the water in the still, after the dis- tillation of the essential oil of nutmegs. Butter of Ro'ses. Obtained by distilling damask-roses. It separates slowly from the water in the receiver. It has little smell, and is hence used to dilute the odour of musk, am- bergris, and civet. Butter of Wax. Prepared by distilling bees’- wax. A factitious kind is also made. Butter of Zinc*J. Chloride of zinc. BUT'TER-MILK. The liquid that remains after the butter is separated from the cream. Qual., Sfc. Butter-milk left from the churning of sweet cream is not only very de- licious, but exceedingly wholesome and nu- tritious. It is eaten with fruit, puddings, and cakes, and is said to possess the property of allaying the nervous irritability induced by excessive tea-drinking. It is an admirable beverage in rickets, diabetes, and many sto- mach affections. An American physician has recently asserted that it induces longevity. See Milk. BUT'TONS. See Beass, Gilding, &c. BUTYL'AMINE. See Petinine. BU'TYLE (-til). Syn. Va'lvle. An ethereal liquid, boiling at about 225° Fahr., formed along with butylene, and other substances, during the electrolysis of valerianic acid, and the valerianates. See Valyle. BU'TYLENE. See Butyle. BUTYL'IC AL'COHOL (-til'-). Syn. Hy'- DEATED ox'ide oe bu'tyle. A compound found, by M.Wurtz, in the fusel-oil obtained by fermenting beet-root molasses. It is lighter than water, with -which it is slightly miscible ; has a powerful odour, and boils at about 228*5° Fahr. BU'TYRATE.i [Eng., Fr.] %n. Bu'tyeas, L. A salt containing butyric acid. Butyrate of Bary'ta. Prep. Saponify butter with a boiling solution of caustic alkali, and decompose the resulting ‘ soap ’ by adding a solution of tartaric acid; filter and distil; neutralise the ‘ distillate ’ with hydrate of baryta, and evaporate; the first crystals that are ‘ caprate of baryta ’; the next, ' caproate of baryta ’; and the last, butyeate OF BAEYTA. This salt is very soluble in water, and hence is easily separated from the others.— Use. Chiefly for making buhjric acid. BUTYR'IC (-tir'-). Syn. Butye'icus, L. ; Butyeique, Fr. Of or from butter. BUTYR'IC ACID. Syn. Aciduh Butye'- 1 Mayne’s notation of thig word is 'hvt'yrate’ form