EXTRACT FROM THE \ PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION. The design of tlie present work is briefly, but not completely, expressed in its title-page. Independently of a reliable and comprehensive collection of formulae and processes in nearly all the industrial and useful arts, it contains a description of the leading properties and applications of the substances referred to, together with ample directions, hints, data, and allied information, calculated to facilitate the development of the practical value of the book in the shop, the laboratory, the factory, and the house- hold. Notices of the substances embraced in the Materia Medica of our national pharmacopeias, in addition to the whole of their preparations, and numerous other animal and vegetable substances employed in medicine, as well as most of those used for food, clothing, and fuel, with their economic applications, have been included in the work. The synonyms and references are other additions which will prove invaluable to the reader. Lastly, there have been appended to all the principal articles referred to, brief but clear directions for determining their purity and commercial value, and for detecting their presence and proportions in compounds. The sources from which I have derived the vast mass of materials forming this volume, are such as to render it deserving the utmost confidence. I have invariably resorted to the best and latest authorities, and have con- sulted almost innumerable volumes, both British and foreign, during its compilation. Secondary channels of information have been scarcely ever relied on, when original authorities were within my reach. A large portion of the work has been derived from my personal experience and observations in the departments of applied chemistry and hygiene, and from the processes of various laboratories and manufactories, many of which I can the more confidently recommend, from having either inspected or witnessed their employment on an extensive scale. The indiscriminate adoption of matter, without examination, has been uniformly avoided, and in no instance has