760 INFUSION. wine and § water as the menstruum. It may, however, he taken, as a general rule, that for vegetable substances that abound in woody fibre, and contain little extractive matter so- luble in water (as quassia, for instance), ^ to ^ part of spirit is sufficient for their preserva- tion ; whilst for those abounding in mucilage or fecula, or that readily soften and become pxilpy and glutinous in weak spirit (as rhu- barb), I to ^ is required. By adopting the method originally sug- gested by Mr. Alsop, infusions may be pre- served, uninjured, for a year or longer, with- out the addition of spirit or any other sub- stance. The only precaution necessary is to keep them in hottles,, perfectly filled 2a\& her- metically sealed} Our own plan is to put a few bruised cloves or seeds of black mustard into the bottles, which must he only 2-3rds filled, then completely fill them with a condensed atmosphere of carbonic acid gas; and, lastly, to stopper them and seal them over, so as to perfectly exclude the air. A pint of decoction of sarsaparilla and | pint of infusion of ca- lumba, treated in this way, kept good for fully 9 years. By simply macerating in the infu- sion as much bruised mustard seed as can be added without flavouring the liquor, along with a little bruised cloves, we find that most vegetable infusions may be preserved in bottles which are occasionally uncorked, without either fermenting or becoming mouldy, by the use of very little spirit (^ or -jL). Before adding the spirit to infusions made with cold water, or with water which is only tepid, it is advisable to heat the liquid to about 185° Fahr., in a water bath, and after keeping it at that temperature for a few minutes, and allowing it again to become cold, to separate it from the precipitated matter, either by fil- tration or decantation. It is often very difficult to render vegetable infusions and decoctions perfectly transparent, a quality always expected in the concentrated 2)reparaiions. Defecation by repose is always better than filtration, owing to the more or less viscidity of the suspended matter. When this is not sufficient, they may be clarified with white of egg (2 or 3 to the gall ), pre- viously beaten up with 5 or 6 fl. oz. of water. Most of the vegetable infusions and decoctions will readily pass the filter, after a very small quantity of acetic, nitric, or sulphuric acid has been added to them. The most obstinate may be rendered ‘ brilliant} or ‘ candle bright} as the ^cellarmen’ call it, by shaking them up, first with about a drachm of dilute sidphuric acid, and afterwards with the ivhites of S or 4 eggs, previously mixed with a few ounces of water, for each gallon of the liquid. This plan is, however, objectionable for many me- dicinal preparations. As many infusions which are occasionally employed in medicine must necessarily escape being separately noticed in this work, it may ^ “ PItarm. Journal," i, 57. be as well to remark that the infusions of all vegetables that do not exert a very powerful action on the human frame, as ordinary herbs and roots, may be made by pouring 1 pint of boiling water on 1 oz. of the vegetable matter, and allowing it to macerate for ^ an hour to an hour. The decoctions of the same vege- tables may be made by simply boiling the above ingredients, in the same proportions, for 10 or 15 minutes, instead of operating by mere infusion. With substances of somewhat greater activity, only half the above quantity should be taken; whilst, with the narcotic plants, and those possessing great activity, 1 to 2 dr. to water, 1 pint, will be the proper quantity. The ordinary dose of such infusions and decoctions is to 1 wine-glassful (1 to 2 fi. oz.), two, three, or four times a day, as the case may indicate. Infusion is preferred for all bodies of a deli- cate texture, which readily yield their active principles to water; and especially when these are either volatile or liable to be injured by the heat of ebullition. The simple infusions are now less frequently made by the druggist than formerly. In most cases he merely furnishes the ingredients, and the infusions are prepared by either the nurse or patient, by w'hom they are commonly called ^ TEAS.^ The following list embraces most of the infusions used in prescribing or noticed in books. Where the proportions of the ingre- dients are not given, 1 oz. of the medicinal substance and 1 pint of boiling water are to be taken, and the dose is that referred to above. Infusion of Agrim'ony. Syn. Ageimony TEA; InEUSUM AGRIMONII, L. From the fresh tops before the flowers are formed. Ver- mifuge. Dose. A teacupful 3 or 4 times a day; also used as an astringent gargle and lotion. For internal use, an equal weight of liquorice root (sliced) is commonly added. Alkaline Infusion. Syn. Inftjsum alka- LiNUM, L. Prep. (Beasley.) Hickory ash, 1 pint; wood soot, pint; boiling water, 1 gall.; in 24 hours decant the clear. “A popular remedy in America for dyspepsia with acidity.’^ Infusion of Al'oes. Syn. Infusum aloes, L. Prep. 1. From hepatic or Socotrine aloes (in powder), 2 di\; carbonate of potassa, dr.; boiling water, 1 pint. 2. (Compound; Infusum aloes COMPO- siTUM, L.)—a. As the compound decoction OF A. (Ph. L.), but using only a pint of boiling water. b. (Fothergill.) Calumba and rhubarb, of each, 1 oz.; aloes, 2 dr.; lime water, 16 fl. oz.; spirit of horse-radish, 1 fl. oz.; macerate in the cold for 12 hours, and strain. The last three, like the decoction, are aperient, antacid, stomachic, tonic, and emmenagogue. Dose. 1 table-spoonful to a small wine-glassful, in water. The last one is an admirable medicine in dyspepsia, loss of appetite, and troublesome constipation.