ANAL~AXAPHROD18IAOS. 105 I I less than that produced by chloroform or ether. I When administered to the extent of 5 dr. ■ during the day, it throws the patient into a state of drunken torpor, which continues for I several days; the sensibility being so much ! diminished, that the skin may be pierced with I a needle, without causing pain; while tickling ' the conjunctiva and fauces is unaccompanied by winking or desire to vomit. But the most I remarkable point is, that the intellectual facul- 1 ties remain unaffected.^ Further experiments ; are, however, necessary to confirm these state- . ments, and still more, to establish the safety I of its administration. See Chloeofobm, Etiiee, &c. I A'NAL. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ana'lis, L. Of I the anus, or connected with or situated near it. Hence, anal glands {comparative anatomy), ANAL FIN {ichthyology), &c. See Alimentaey CANAL, Anus, &c. ANALEP'SY. Syn. analep'sis, L. (prim., I Gr.); Analepsie, Fr. In medicine, recovery I of strength after sickness; convalescence. In I pathology, an epileptic attack arising from de- I ranged stomach (= ANALEp'siAf, L.). ANALEFTIC. Syn. Analep'ticus, L. ; I Analeptique, Fr. Restorative; that recruits I the strength lost by sickness. [ Analep'tics. Syn. Analep'tica, L.; Ana- LEPTIQUES, Fr. In pharmacology, c^c., resto- rative medicines and agents. I ANAL'YSIS (-e-sTs). [Eng., L., Gr.J Syn. I Analyse, Fr.; Auslosung, Zeelegtjng, Ger. I In a gen. sense, the resolution of any thing, I whether an object of the senses or of the in- ^ tellect, into its elementary parts. In che- mistry, the resolution or separation of a com- 1 pound body into its constituent parts or ele- i ments, for the purpose of either determining their nature, or, when this is known, their rela- tive proportions. It is divided into qeal'ita- TIVE ANALYSIS and quan'titatia'E analysis ; I and these again into peox'imate analysis and 1 ul'timate analysis. The first consists in finding the components of a compound, merely as respects their nature or names; the second, I in finding not merely the component parts, but 1 also the proportions of each of them; the third gives the results in the names of the ‘proxi- , mate’ or immediate principles or compounds I which, by their union, form the body under ex- i amination;^ whilst the fourth develops the ; ‘chemical elements’ of which it is composed.^! ' An analysis may also be made to determine whether a certain body is or is not contained I in a compound (as ‘lead’ in wine); or it may I be undertaken to ascertain all the constituents ' 1 “ Medical Times,” 1860. * Thus gypsum consists of lime, sulplimic acid, and I water; and sxiet, of oleine, margarine, and steaiine. Tliese would form the ‘terms’of the proximate analyses ! of these substances. But lime consists of calcium and oxygen ; sulphuric acid, of sulnliur and oxygen; and water, of hydrogen and oxygen. The ultimate analysis of I gypsum would, therefore, have reference to the elements , ‘ calcium,’ ‘ sulpliur,’ ‘ hydrogen,’ and ‘ oxygen;’ and so of ! the other example. present; the extent of an investigation being mex’ely limited by the object in view. For success in chemical analysis a thorough acquaintance with the various properties of bodies is required, as well as aptitude in ap- plying this knowledge in discriminating them, and separating them from each other. Judg- ment and expertness in manipulation are, indeed, essential qualifications. The method pursued must likewise be such as to attain the object in view with unerring certainty, and in the most expeditious manner. “ The mere knowledge of the re-agents, and of the reac- tions of other bodies with them, will not suf- fice for the attainment of this end. This requires the additional knowledge of a sys- tematic and progressive course of analysis, or, in other words, the knowledge of the order, and succession, in which solvents, together with general and special re-agents, ought to be applied, both to effect the speedy and safe detection of every individual component of a compound or mixture, and to prove with cer- tainty the absence of all other substances.” “ If we do not possess this systematic know- ledge, or if in the hope of attaining an object more rapidly, we adhere to no method in our investigations and experiments, analysing becomes (at least in the hands of a novice,) mere guess work, and the results obtained are no longer the fruits of scientific calculation, but mere matters of accident, which sometimes may prove lucky hits, and at others total failures.” (Fresenius.) To enter fully into this important branch of chemical science, on which indeed all the others depend, is not the object of the present work ; nor would its limits permit such a course. We have, therefore, confined ourselves, under the respective heads, to a few remarks for the general guidance of the reader; and must refer him to some works^ exclusively on the subject for a fuller development of the mys- teries and wonders of analytical chemistry. To each article, or class of articles, of import-, ance, noticed in this work, are appended the most simple and approved means of deter- mining its purity, as well as of detecting its presence in mixtures; and, in most cases, of estimating its quantity. Carefully applied, these will be found invaluable, and will fur- nish all the information that practical men, and the majority of our readers, will require. See Acids, Alkalies, Alkaloids, Bases, Blowpipe, Eaeths, &c. ANAMNES'TICSf. Syn. Anamnes'tica, L. In medicine and pharmacology, substances or agents supposed to assist the memory. ANAPHRODISTACS (-af-ro-diz'-). Syn. An- tapiieodisTacs, AntapheoditTcs ; Ana- pheodisi'aca, AntapiieoditTca, &C., L. ; Antapheodisiaques, Fr. In medicine and * Fresenius’s of Qual. Chem. Analysis,” nn.l “ Sys. of Quail. Chem. both of tliera translated by Bullock, and published by Churchill—arc incomparably the best works yet produced on the subject. !