BEER. 292 it may be eaten cold, in which case the pan should not he opened until the whole has thoroughly cooled. 2. ( Mrs. Rundell.) Rump of leef (or any part of the beef which will stew well), 3 or 4 lb.; trim it, and cut off the fat; add several sorts (according to taste) of sweet herbs chopped very fine, a little shalot, and a great deal of spice (cayenne, white pepper, allspice, cloves, and mace or mixed spices), and put them, with vinegar, into a saucer that has been rubbed with garlic; add/a^ bacon cut into long slips; lard the beef regularly on both sides, and rub it over with the Aerij? and spices; next four it, and add a small piece of butter, and a pint of water; bake it in an oven until thoroughly ‘ done,’ then strain the gravy, and serve it up with 'pickles’ on the top. Excellent either hot or cold. Obs. Miss Acton—a high a\ithority in these matters—tells us, that 7 or 8 lb. of beef, thus treated, takes 4 to 5 hours to dress it j)roperly; and that if a ' stew-pan ’ be used, it should be as nearly the size of the meat as possible, the whole being allowed to simmer very gently, and the meat ' turned ’ when half done. She also states that ^^veal dressed in this way is even better than beef^ but, of course, it takes less time in cooking. Collared Beef. Prep. 1. (Miss Acton.) The piece of beef is rubbed with a little coarse sugar, and set aside for two or three days; it is then slightly'salted’ (about 1 oz. of containing a little ' saltpetre,’ to each lb. of meat) • and allowed to rest 8 or 10 days; the ' bones ’ and tougher skin are next removed, and the 'under side’ is sprinkled thickly with parsley and other savoury herbs (shred small), after which it is very tightly rolled up, secured with a cloth, and bound as ' closely as possible ’ with broad tape. A piece of 8 lb. will require about 5 hours gentle boiling, and should be placed, in the same state, whilst still hot, under a heavy weight, or in a press, for a few hours. The ribs, or (better) the thinnest part of W\e flank, is generally selected. The last should be ' hung ’ in a damp place for a day or two before curing it. 2. (Mrs. Rundell.) From stewed shin of beef and ox-tail, re-stewed with a glassful each of ivine and ketchup, and some of the old broth, and then poured into moulds. Sweet herbs, sliced eggs, and pickles, may be added at will. Dutch Beef, Hung Beef. The round, rump, veiny-piece, or thickflanJc, cured, for 10 or 12 days, with dry salt to which a little saltpetre and some sugar and black pepper has been aeWed; and afterwards 'hung’ for use. It eats well if boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated or shred, as Dutch, and eaten as a relish on bread and butter, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and while hot put it under a press. When cold, fold it in a sheet of paper, and hang it in a very dry place. It will then keep two or three months. Pott'ed Beef. See Potted Meats, Ac. 1 Modern Cookery,” p. 193. Spiced Beef (spist'). Salted beef when spices \ (usually black-pepper and allspice) have been | added to the salt, &c., used in curing it. See ' Collared Beef {above). BEER (here). Syn. Biere, Fr.; Bier, D., Ger.; Birra, It.; CerevT'sia (-vizh'-’ii), CeryT'sia (Pliny), C. llpula'ta* {i.e., hopp’d or modern b.), Vi'num Anolic'anum *, V. i noRDEA'CEUM* (-sh’um), Zy'thum* {or -THUS*; l^v9og, Gr.), &c., L.; Bere, Beere, | Sax.; Bir, W. An aqueous infusion of malted i grain which, after being boiled with ho2)s,~ has I undergone the vinous fermentation; malt- liquor.-^ Hist. Ale and wine are fabled to have been | invented by Bacchus; the former, in Egypt, where the soil and climate would not permit of the cultivation of the grape.^ Herodotus ascribes the origin of the art of brewing to Isis, the wife of Osiris, and notices zythum {^v9og), a beer obtained from barley.® Malt-liquor was undoubtedly employed as a beverage in the fifth century before Christ; and, probably, very much earlier. Xenophon distinctly alludes to it in his famous retreat (b.c. 401). Aristotle speaks of 'beer-drunkenness’; and Theo- phrastus calls it ' barley-wine.’ The Romans learned the art of brewing from the Egyptians, and gave the liquor thus made the appropriate name of cerevisia (quasi Cererisia ®), from its being the product of corn, the gift of Ceres. Tlie most celebrated beer of ancient times was the ' Pelu’sian pota'tion,^ so named after a town at tlie mouth of the Xile where beer was pre- pared in great perfection. The use of beer was likewise known to the ancient Gauls and Germans, and probably also to most other ancient nations inhabiting the temperate zone. Pliny says " Zythum is made in Egypt, ce'lia and ce"ria in Spain, and many other sorts (of beer) in Gaul.”' In our own country, ale was ^ early known and valued as a beverage. The i art of its preparation appears to have been 11 obtained either from the Romans or the Saxons. According to Yerstegan, " This excellent and healthsome liquor, beere, antiently called ale, as of the Danes it yet is, was of the Germans invented and brought into use.” Alehouses are mentioned in the laws of Ina, king of Wessex (a.d. 680). Alebooths were regulated by law, A.D. 728. By the beginning of tlie 13th century ale was drunk generally in Eng- land. By a statute of James HI., of Scotland, it was made a capital offence to mix wine with beer (a.d. 1482). In 1492, a licence was “ The omission of this clause would render the defiiii- ' tion more general and strictly accurate ; since, the use of ‘ hops’ is ])eculiar to modern times, and not absolutely ’ necessary to the production of beer. Modern beer is, 5 however, of course, alluded to. ^ 3 is now the common generic term for fl/f fermented '■ malt-liquors’ used as beverages, as is subsequently noticed in the Text. * Tooke. 5 Lib. ii., c. 77. ® Said to be a contraction oi‘Cer'ens vis in a'qiio,' the strength of corn in water. 7 “ llist. Nat.,” lib. xxii., c. 83.