INFUSION. 770 or damasJc rose (dried and pulled asunder), 3 dr.; hoiling water, 1 pint; mix, and add of dilute sulphuric acid, 1-^ 11. di\; macerate for 2 liours, strain oil' the liquor, and dissolve in it while sugar, 6 dr. The Edinburgh form is nearly similar. b. (Ph. D.) Petals, 2 dr.; boiling water, s pint; infuse 1 hour, strain, and add of dilute sulphuric acid, 1 Jl. dr. Obs. A vessel of glass or stoneware should be used to make the infusion in, as metallic vessels injure the colour of the liquid, and are also attacked by the acid. The best plan is to add the dilute sulphuric acid to the water be- fore pouring it on the leaves. The infusion may be squeezed out of the leaves with the liands. The COMPOUIS'D INFUSION OF EOSES is prin- cipally used as a vehicle for sulphate of quinine, saline purgatives, and some other medicines. It is astringent and refrigerant, and, when diluted with water, forms a pleasant drink in febrile disorders, phthisical sweats, haemor- rhages, diarrhoea, &c. It also makes a very useful astringent gargle. Dose. 1 to 4 fl. oz.; either alone or diluted with water. It is in- compatible with the alkalies and earths, and their carbonates and bicarbonates. 3. (Concentrated; Infusum eos^ con- CENTEATUM, L.) — a. Rosc petals, 10 oz.; boiling distilled water, 3 pints; infuse for 2 hours, with frequent agitation, express the liquid, strain through a clean hair sieve, and add of dilute sulphuric acid, 4| fl. oz.; after agitation for 5 or 6 minutes, and repose for 2 or 3 hours, decant the clear portion, and filter tlu'ough paper supported on calico; next, dis- solve in the liquid li lb. of the finest white sugar, broken up into small lumps, but per- fectly free from dust and dirt; lastly, pour the infusion into clean, stoppered, green-glass bot- tles, and, as much as possible, keep them from the light, and in a cool place. b. Rose petals, 3i lb. ; boiling water, 2 gall.; diluted sxdphuric acid, 24 fl. oz.; finest white sugar, 6^ lb.; as the last. c. The same quantity of dilute sulphuric acid and cold water, as before; mix, and infuse the rose leaves in the liquid for 48 hours, then expi*ess, filter, and add the sugar. 'Product vex’y lino, and keeps w^ell wdthout becoming gelatinous. Obs. This preparation is 8 times as strong as that of the Ph. L. (2, a). Great care should be taken that the utensils are perfectly clean, especially the press, if one is employed; and earthenware glazed ivith lead should be avoided. The ^ pressing^ should also be conducted as rapidly as possible, to avoid the colour^ being injured by the iron. Clean wrought iron does not readily injure the colour of infusion of roses before the addition of the acid. When the last formula is adopted, strong pressure of the leaves with the hands can alone be safely had recourse to. If the infusion does not filter quite clear through paper, it should be set aside for a few clays, when, in general, it will be found to filter more readily and satisfactorily. Should it be wanted for immediate sale, the ' addition of the -whites of 2 or 3 eggs, diluted with 2 or 3 ounces of water, followed by vio- lent agitation of the liquid for a few minutes, and repose for an hour or two, wdll usually render it ‘ fine,’ when it may be either decanted, or filtered should it require it. It will now | pass rapidly through ordinary filtering paper, and at once run * clear.’ j Infusion of Rue. Syn. Rite tea; Infijsum EUT^, L. Carminative, antispasmodic, emmo- nagogue, and vermifuge. It is a popular and useful remedy in flatulent colic, .infantile con- vulsions, epilepsy, hysteria, suppressed menstru- ation, &c. Infusion of Sage. Syn. Sage tea ; In- FUSUM SALYEE, L. 1. From the leaves of common garden sage. Carminative and sto- machic. In flatulence and dyspepsia, and diluted w’ith water as a drink, to lessen the night sweats in phthisis and fever, and to stop the secretion of milk after weaning. 2. Compound; Infusum salvia compo- SiTUM, L.—Ellis.) Sage and boneset, of each, I oz.; cascarilla, 1 dr.; boiling water, pint; infuse until cold. A wine-glassful every 3 or 4 hours in hectic fever. Infusion of Sarsaparilla. Syn, Infusum SAEZJ3, I. SAESAPAEILL.E (Ph. U. S.), L. 1. From the bruised root. l)r. Hancock adds fl. dr. of hydrochloric acid to each pint of the water employed, as a menstruum, by wdiich, he says, the efficacy of the infusion is greatly j increased. At St. George’s Hospital a little I liquorice root and liquor of potassa is added ! for the same purpose. 2. (Compound; Infitsum saesapaeille COMPOSITUM, L. — Ph. D. 1826.) Sarsa- :. parilla root (w'ashed clean with a little cold j water, and sliced), 1 oz.; lime wafer (cold), 16 fl. oz.; m.acerate for 12 hours, and strain. Inferior to the simple infusion, since botli earths and alkalies lessen the solvent action of water on sarsaparilla. Use of both the above, similar to that of the decoction. Infusion of Sas'safras. /Syn. Sass^feas i TEA; Infushm SASSAFEAS, L. From sassafras \ chips. Alterative, stimulant, and sudorific; a popular remedy in various cutaneous, rheumatic, scrofulous, and sypliilitical affections. Hufe- land recommends the addition of a little liquo- rice root. Infusion of Sav'ine. Syn. Sayine tea; Infusum SABiNiE, L. Prep. (Pereira.) Fx^esh savine leaves or herb, 1 dr.; boiling water, 8 fl. oz.; infuse in a covered vessel. Stimulant, emmenagogue, and vermifuge; in chlorosis, and suppressed menstruation depending on a torpid action of the uterine vessels; in chronic rheumatism, wmrms, &c. Bose. 1 to 2 table- spoonfuls, cautiously administered. Infusion of Saxifrage. Syn. Saxifeage TEA; Infusum pimpinell.e, L. From the root of bux'net saxifrage {Pimqnnella Saxifraga).