2 ABBEEVIATIOK—ABERRATION. though so necessary to hygiene, Great Britain did not possess such structures until the erection of one at Edinburgh, in 1851; and others, in connection with the New Metropolitan Cattle Market, London, in 1855. ABBREVIA'TION. In writing and typo- graphy, one or more of the earlier letters of a word used to express the whole. Before the invention of printing, a great variety of ab- breviations were employed, whi(;h are now, for the most part, disused. Abbreviations are, how- ever, still adopted to express ‘ titles,’ and by lawyers in their rough documents, and by phy- sicians and chemists in prescriptions and for- mulae, to represent the more constantly re- curring terms and words. Those employed in medicine, pharmacy, and chemistry, usually consist of the initial letters, or the first two or three letters of the words they stand for; but when necessary, a larger number are taken. Ex.—O., octarius, a pint; Aq., aqua, water; Man., manipulus, a handful; Coch., cochleare, a spoonful. Sometimes both the initial and final letters of a word are einployed; as. No., numero, number, or in number; aa, ana, of each; and in a few cases, z is added to an initial letter to mark a contraction ,• as, oz., ounce; Zz., zingiberis, ginger. The term is improperly applied to mere arbitrary signs or characters. See Foemuljs, PEESCEiPTioisrs, Symbols, &c. ABDO'MEN. [Eng., Er., L.] In anatomy, the belly, or lower belly; the great cavity of the body extending from the thorax, or chest, to the bottom of the pelvis. It contains the stomach, intestines, liver, spleen, kidneys, bladder, &c.; and in the female, the uterus, ovaria, &c. It is the largest and first-formed cavity of the body, and the one most constant in its existence throughout the whole animal creation. See Ebigasteic, Hypogasteic, Umbilical, &c. Abdomen. In entomology, the third in insects, the second in arachnidans, and in both classes the most posterior of the sections into which the body is externally divided. It con- tains the chief digestive and respiratory,and the whole of the generative organs. See Insects. ABDOMINALS. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Abdo- MINa'les, L. In ichthyology, an order of mala- copterygious fishes, including all those which have the ventral fins issuing from the under part of the abdomen, behind the pectoral ones. Several of the fish most esteemed by epicm-es, as the salmon, carp, mullet, parr, and others; as well as some of those found on the coasts of England, in the greatest plenty, as the herring, pilchard, &c., belong to this orcler. AB'ERNE'THY MEDICINES. These original- ly consisted of a calomel pill, and subsequently of a mercurial or *blue’ pill, to be taken over- night, followed by an aroinatised black draught in the morning. The quantity of either of the former, for an adult, was about 3 gr. to 85 gr., increased a little in bulk by the addition of some liquorice powder; that of the latter, from 1 to 1^ fl. oz. As, however, when frequently taken, these pills sometimes occasioned saliva- tion, which proved prejudicial to their sale, a little compound extract of colocynth {Ph. L., 1836) was introduced into their composition, by which this objection was obviated. Ul- timately, their composition was settled at 3 gr. of mercurial pill, and 2 gr. of compound ex- tract of colocynth; and these proportions are still followed as the best by those who prepare and sell them. Persons who object to blacJ: draught, will find a dose of castor oil, or of any other mild purgative medicine that may be more agreeable to them, equally efficacious. The occasional use of these medicines seldom fails to prove highly beneficial to the plethoric, bilious, and dyspeptic. In ordinary cases of constipation, headache, &c., arising from de- ranged stomach or liver, wherein the adminis- tration of mercurials is not contra-indicated, they will be found of great service. It need scarcely be added that these medicines are named after Mr. Abernethy, the celebrated surgeon, who is said to have frequently em- ployed them in his practice. See Pills and Mixtijees. ABERRA’TION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Abee- ea'tio, L. a wandering or deviation from the usual course, or from the normal condition. In optics, the deviation of the rays of light from the true focus, when inflected by a lens or speculum. This arises from a difference in the physical nature of the rays, from the figure of the lenses or specula, or from the nature of the materials of which the media traversed are composed. See Acheomatism, Lens, &c. Aberration of mind. Mental alienation or wandering; insanity. A term frequently ap- plied, in familiar language, to a mild form of incipient insanity or dementia, which is more or less occasional or continued, trifling or severe, according to circumstances. The studious, nervous, slothful, and those who are engaged in sedentary occupations and spend much of their time in ill-ventilated apartments, or who indulge in irregidar or vicious habits, as well as ' fast livers,’ are the most liable to this affection. It also frequently arises from disordered physical health. Treat., <^c. Change of scene, out-door exercise, agreeable company, pleasing and con- tinued mental occupation, and due attention to diet, clothing, ventilation, &c., with the judicious use of some mild aperient medicine and tepid bathing, will generally alleviate, and frequently efiect a cure. For the pre- vention of its accession, or its recurrence, care should be taken to promote the general health, and also, where necessary, to elevate the spirits and to divert the mind. See Hypo- CHONDEIASIS, INSANITY, &C.