254 BALLOON. Balloon. In aerostation, a bag or hollow pear-shaped vessel, made of varnished silk or other light material, and inflated with some gas or vapour lighter than the air, as hydrogen, carburetted hydrogen, healed air, &c., so as to rise and float in the atmo- sphere. When filled with ‘ gas ’ it is called by way of distinction an aie' - balloon {aerostat, Sfc., Fr.; luftball, luft-schiff, &c., Ger.); when with heated air, a fiee'- BALLOON or Montgoleiee b. {ballon d feu, Fr.). Hist. It appears that man, from the earliest ages of the world, has desired to assume a similar sovereignty over the air, to that which he pos- sesses over the land and water. The story of Da?dalus, and the fate of Icarus, are among the marvels of our school-boy days. The au- tomaton dove of Archytas, and the numerous attemjjts made at flying during the middle ages, were, however, mere efforts to navigate the air by mechanical means, and were, in their nature, quite distinct from those which constitute the principles of modern balloon- ing. To Lord Bacon, ‘the prophet of art,’ may be traced the true theory of balloons (about A.D. 1600). Galien, of Avignon, wrote on aerostation (a.d. 1755). Cavendish disco- vered the extreme lightness of hydrogen (a.d. 1766), and Dr. Black, in the following year, expressed the opinion that a very thin bag filled with this gas would rise to the ceiling of a room ; but on attempting the experiment it failed, owing to the weight of the envelope. Cavallo endeavoured to carry out the sugges- tion of Black, but did not succeed in raising anything heavier than a soap-bubble (a.d. 1782). About this time the brothers Mont- golfier constructed a balloon, which was in- flated with the smoke produced by the com- bustion of damp straw; and in 1783, Pilatre de Rozier and the Marquis d’Arlandes ascended at Paris in a balloon of this description, and attained an elevation of about 3000 feet. Early in 1784, MM. Charles & Robert ascended in a balloon filled with hydrogen gas, and after a flight of 90 minutes alighted in safety. Se- veral successful ascents followed, and no acci- dent occurred, until Pilatre de Rozier and M. Romaine perished from the apparatus taking fire, in attempting to cross the English channel in a double balloon; the one part being filled with hydrogen and the other with smoke (June, 1785). The first balloon ascent in England was by Signor Lunardi from the Artillery Ground, Moorfields, Sept. 15th, 1784. In the following year Messrs. Blanchard & Jeffries passed, in this way, in safety, from Dover to Calais. Balloon ascents now multiplied both in France and England, and becaine sources of amusement and wonder to the pleasure-seeking citizens of the two great capitals. Nor was it long before they were introduced, as a com- mercial speculation and an attractive novelty, into our principal provincial towns, and were soon very commonly adopted to increase the attractions of ‘al fresco fetes,’ and particu- larly of our ‘ public gardens.’ The feat of Mr. Green who ascended , in a monster balloon (the ‘Nassau bal- loon’) from Vauxhall, in Nov., 1836, and with two companions and above a ton of ballast, succeeded in crossing the channel to Nassau, in Germany, must be within the re- collection of every one; and the more recent jugglery of Mr. Henson and his ‘ plying ship’ or ‘ AEEIAL MACHINE,’ must be still more fa- miliar. The ascents made by Green, Gale, and others, in London and its vicinity, during the summers of 1851-4, were so numerous, that they ultimately ceased to excite interest. It was no uncommon thing for 3, 4, or even 5 balloons to ascend on the same evening, and for 2 or 3 of them to be visible at the same time. The equestrian ascents of M. Poitevin, Lieut. Gale, and others,andof Madame Poitevin ‘ as ‘ Europa on a ball,’ were novelties which j originated with Mr. Green, who ascended on I horseback from London, in May, 1828. Hap- i pily these dangerous follies, so far as animals are concerned, were put an end to, by the de- cision of the police magistrates (Aug. 1852); but were revived two or three years afterwards, in another form, by two aeronauts (brothers), who frequently ascended without either ‘ car ’ or ‘ seat,’ and with nothing but a ‘ corde vo- lante,’ on which they performed in the air. ' Very recently (June 23,1859), Mr. Wise, an j American aeronaut, with three companions, ef- ^ fected a passage from St. Louis, Missouri, to Jef- ferson county. New York, after travelling about 1200 miles; but all four were nearly killed. At the present time (1861) balloon ascents still appear to possess attractions for the ‘ pleasure-seekers’ of London ; and even ‘races’ (?) between rival aeronauts, in which three, , four, or more competitors, are engaged, in an j equal number of separate balloons, are not ' j infrequent at Cremorne Gardens. In the early days of aerostation, and indeed for some years afterwards, balloons were in- flated with hydrogen gas, obtained by the action of sulphuric acid and water on iron-filings or small fragments of iron; but this method of filling them ultimately gave place to the cheaper and more convenient supply afforded by the gas-light companies. Of late years, the coal-gas furnished by the gas-works, has been generally, if not solely used for the infla- tion of balloons. The principles of ballooning may be referred to the well-known difference in the specific gravity of bodies, and to the physical proper- ties of the atmosphere. Pure hydrogen, weighed at the level of the sea, is about 16 , times lighter than common air ; but when pre- | pared on the large scale, and containing water, and other impurities, it is only from 7 to II | times lighter than the atmosphere. A globe of atmospheric air of 1 foot in diameter, under like circumstances, weighs 25 ib.; a similar globe of hydrogen (reckoning it only as 6 times