1255 SWALLOW—SWEETBREAD. I ]^:onslsls of two metal uprights, upon which the ju’ms rest; a band that passes around the I pelvis, and is secured to the hips by semi- circular pieces of light metal j from the back jf this band is affixed a steel stem, with a pad it the upper end, and having its point of motion at the pelvic band, but, unlike the lirdinary apparatus, it is in one piece, and \^::urved rather sharply in its centre, from which jinother point of motion is established by means of a second stem and plate, resting ligainst the opposite side. The conjoined motion of the two resembles the closing of a mir of scissors, and, acting in opposite direc- jtions, gradually, bat surely, depresses the arc iDf each curve, as required, and produces a Istraightened or normal condition of the spine. 1 Ruptuee or HEENIA, as commonly met with, is the protrusion of some of the viscera (of the abdomen out of that cavity into a kind |of sac, composed of the portion of the peri- Itoneum which is pushed before them. When the protrusion may be returned by pressure [Into the abdomen, it is called a eedtjcible Iheenia ; and when the contrary is the case, Iireeducible hernia. Where the protrusion Us not only irreducible, but the contents of (the sac suffer constriction, so that their [passage towards the anus is arrested, a train lof the most alarming and often fatal symptoms iensue, and the affection is called strangulated [hernia. For the relief of ordinary cases of \r\ipture the patient has recourse to a truss, [which is an apparatus which, perhaps, more (than any other, it is highly important to have ' so constructed as not only to avoid unnecessary I pressure upon the abdominal surface, but like- (wise to guard against the dilation of the I hernial aperture in the attempt to apply a I remedy. This desideratum is remarkably well i secured by a truss wherein a layer of sand acts ! as a support, in lieu of that usually given by j much more solid substances. The advantages I of this plan are, that the particles composing ' the pad create a surface always in perfect appo- sition with the abdominal parietes, whilst the hernial opening cannot be enlarged, as it may be by the continued pressure of a hard sub- stance against it, and, as frequently happens, actually within it. Delay in applying a truss, and the use of an improper one, is a common cause of a simple rupture becoming an irreducible or dangerous one; and, in many, very many cases, strangu- lated, and fatal. In conclusion, we may remark, that persons ‘ labouring under deformity are not generally aware of the large number of ingenious con- trivances of a mechanical character which have been produced of late years for removing or alleviating their misfortunes. The pro- fession, and their patients who are thus afflicted, would do well to inspect for them- selves the various manufactures of those sur- gical instrument makers who have justly acquired great reputation for such contrivances as we have noticed. SWAL'LOW. Three or four species of hirundo (Linn.) pass under this name. It was once held in great repute in medicine. Even the excrement was included among the simples of the Ph. L. 1618. The swallow is an insectivorous bird, but, like the sparrow and rook, is much persecuted for its good services. It has been calculated that, directly and indi- rectly, a single swallow is the humble means of lessening the race of one kind of insect alone to the extent of 560,970,489,000,000,000 of its race in one year. SWEET BALLS. Prep. Take of Florentine orris root, 3 oz.; cassia, 1 oz.; cloves, rhodium wood, and lavender flowers, of each, ^ oz.; ambergris and mush, of each, 6 gr.; oil of verbena, 10 or 12 drops; beat them to a paste, form this into balls with mucilage of gum tragacanth made with rose water, pierce them, whilst soft, with a needle, and, when they are quite dry and hard, polish them. Worn in the pocket as a perfume. Some persons varnish them, but that keeps in the smell. SWEET BAY. Syn. Laurel ; Laurus NOBiLis (Linn.), L. The fruit (lauri bacc.® ; LAURUS—Ph. L.), as well as the leaves (lauri folia), are reputed aromatic, stimulant, and narcotic. They were formerly very popular in coughs, colic, hysteria, suppressions, &c.; and, externally, in sprains, bruises, &c. SWEET FLAG. Syn. Acorus Calamus, L. A plant of the natural order Orontiacece. The rhizone (‘ root ’) is an aromatic stimulant, and is regarded by some as a valuable medicine in agues, and as a useful adjunct to other stimu- lants and bitter tonics. It is sometimes em- ployed by the rectifiers of gin. The volatile oil obtained from it by distillation is employed for scenting snuff, and in the preparation of aromatic vinegar. SWEETS. Home-made wines; British wines. SWEET'BEEAD. The thymus gland of the calf. When boiled, it is light and digestible; but when highly dressed and seasoned, it is