440 CHOCOLATE. England is prepared from the cake left after the expression of the oil, and this is frequently mixed with the roasted seeds of ground peas, and maize or potato flour, to which a sufiicieut quantity of inferior brown sugar, or treacle and mutton suet, is added to make it adhere together. Inferior sweet almonds are also employed in the same way. In this way is made the article marked in the shops at 8d., 9d., and lOd. the pound. A large quantity was lately sold so low as 6d. per lb.; whereas good nuts in their unprepared state cost, at wholesale, more than double the money.” (Cooley, 1856.) Since the above paragraph was written there has been a vast improvement in English chocolates, though the cheaper sorts of certain makers are still much adulterated. Genuine chocolate should dissolve in the mouth without grittiness, and should leave a peculiar sen- sation of freshness; after boiling it with water the emulsion should not form a jelly when cold, for if it does starch or flour is present. The presence of animal fat may generally be detected by a cheesy or rancid flavour. See Cocoa. Qual., life. Chocolate is nutritive and whole- some, if taken in moderation, but is sometimes apt to disagree with weak stomachs, especially those that are easily afibeted by oily sub- stances or vegetable food. When this is the case, by adopting the simple plan recommended under Butter, chocolate may generally be taken with impunity, even by the dyspeptic. The quantity of aromatics mixed with the richer varieties of chocolate improve the fla- vour, but r^der them more stimulant and prone to produce nervous symptoms and head complaints. Chocolate is taken in the solid form, or made into a beverage; or, combined with sugar, is made into various articles of confectionery. Chocolate for the Table is prepared by slicing or scraping very finely the required quan- tity into a jug, and adding to it a small quantity of boiling water. This is worked into a thin, smooth paste, and the jug immediately filled up with boiling milk-and-water. A froth is produced by the same means that eggs are beaten up. The operation of “ milling,” per- formed by rapidly twirling a notched cylinder of wood in the emulsion, raises the froth very quickly. Sugar may be put in with the scraped chocolate, or added afterwards at pleasure. Chocolate should never be made for the table before it is wanted, because beating it again injures the flavour, destroys the froth, and se- parates the body of the chocolate, the oil of the nut being observed, after a few minutes’ boiling, or even standing long by the fire, to rise to the top. This is one of the principal reasons why chocolate offends the stomach. Preparations of chocolate, intended either as nutritious articles of food for convalescents, or as vehicles for medicine, are common among the pharmacopceial and magistral formulae of the Continent. The following are a few examples:— Aromatic Chocolate. Prep. (Weiglebt.) Cocoa beans and sugar, of each, 16 oz.; cinna- mon, ^ oz.; cloves, 2 dr.; cardamoms and va- nilla, of each, 1 dr. Car'rageen Chocolate. See White Choco- late (Nos. 1 and 2). Chalyb'eate Chocolate. Syn. Ferrugin'- t EOUS CHOCOLATE ; ChOCOLA'tA CHALYBEA'tA, C. Mar'tis, L. Prep. 1. (Trousseau.) Span- ish chocolate, 16 oz.; carbonate of iron, ^ oz.; mix, and divide into 1-oz. cakes. One at a time; in anaemia, amenorrhoea, chlorosis, &c. 2. (Pierquin.) Iodide of iron, 2 dr.; cho- colate, 16 oz. For ^-oz. cakes; as above, and in scrofulous and glandular affections. Guarana' Chocolate. Syn. Paullin'ia cho- colate ; ChOCOLA'TA PAULIN'iiE, C. GUA- ran'.e, L. Prep. From guarana and white sugar, of each, 1 oz., triturated together, and afterwards thoroughly mixed with good plain chocolate, 18 oz. Recommended as a restora- tive in debility, chlorosis, and other diseases of debility, especially those of a nervous character. Iceland Moss Chocolate. Syn. Chocola'ta cetrarI^ island'ic^, C. lichen'is, L. Prep. 1. (P.C.) Simple chocolate (P.C.), 32 parts; sugar, 29 parts; dried jelly of Iceland moss, 11 parts; mix. 2. (Cadet.) Chocolate, 4 lb.; sugar, 2 lb.; Iceland moss (freed from its bitter, and pow- dered), 1^ lb.; tragacanth and cinnamon, of each, 4 oz.; water, q. s.; to be beaten in a warm mortar, or ground with a muller on a warm slab to a paste. Recommended in pul- monary affections, general debility, weakness of stomach, &c. See Cocoa (Iceland Moss). Pur'gative Chocolate. Syn. Chocola'ta PUR'GANS, C. cathar'tica, L. Prep. 1. Jalap, 1 oz.; chocolate, 9 oz.; mix, and divide into 1-dr. cakes. Dose. 1 to 2, as a purge. 2. Jalap, 2 oz.; calomel and sugar, of each, 1 oz.; triturate together, then add chocolate, 20 oz.; for 1-dr. cakes. 3. Scammony, 2 dr.; chocolate, 3 oz.; for 1 dozen cakes. The last two are given in worms. Dose (for an adult). 1 cake, taken fasting. Sal'ep Chocolate. Syn. Sal'oop chocolate ; Chocola'ta cum sal'ep, L. Prep. 1. (P.C.) Chocolate, 16 oz.; powdered salep, ^ oz. 2. (Cadet.) Cacao paste and sugar, of each, 1 lb.; powdered salep, 1 oz. Arrowroot choco- late and tapioca chocolate are made in the same manner. (See below.) Sim'ple Chocolate. Syn. Htgien'ic c., Homceopath'ic c. ; Chocola'ta, C. sim'plex, C. salu'tis, L. ; Chocolat de sante, Fr. Prep. (P.C.) Caracas and Maragnan cocoa, of each, 96 lb.; sugar, 160 lb.; cinnamon, 1 oz. (to 2 oz.); triturated together in the usual manner, and formed into cakes or powder. Vanilla Chocolate. Sign. Chocola'ta cum vanil'la, L. Prep. 1. (P.C.) Chocolate (plain,—P.C.), 16 oz.; vanilla, ^ dr.