ol AL—ALABASTER. AL-. [Ar.] An inseparable article equiva- lent to the English the. It is found in many chemical and other words derived from the Arabic; as, alchemy, alcohol, alembic, almanac, &c. AL'ABASTER. Syn. Albatee, Er.; Ala- bas'ter, Alabastri'tes, Alabas'teum, L. a soft, white species of calcareous and of gypseous stone, used by sculptors. There are several varieties, all of which may be ranged under two heads:— 1. CALCA"EEOrS ALABASTER; OrIENT'AL A.; Calc-sih'ter. a sub-variety of carbonate of lime, formed by the deposition of calcareous particles in the caverns of limestone rocks. It has a foliated, fibrous, or granular structure, and a pure, soft, rich, semi-translucent whiteness, generally agreeably variegated with undulating zones or stripes of various shades of yellow, red, or brown. This variety is that most es- teemed by sculptors, and for the manufacture of alabaster ornaments. The ancients used it for ointment and perfume boxes. At the baths of San Filippo (Tuscany), the process of its formation may be examined by the observer. The natural spring of boiling water holds car- bonate of lime in solution by means of sul- phuretted hydrogen, which escaping into the air, leaves the lime as a precipitate, which is gradually deposited in a concrete form. (M. Alex. Brogniart.) 2. Gyp'seous or commoI'T alabaster ; Gtp- suzn. A natural hydrous sulphate of lime, containing a little carbonate of lime. That from the quarries of the Paris basin contains about 12§ of the latter substance. When cal- cined or roasted, and powdered, it forms the substance known under the name of Plaster OF Paris. The more compact, fine-grained specimens of this variety are, like the pre- ceding one, sculptured into almost numberless articles of ornament and utility, such as vases, clock-stands, statuettes, &c. The inferior kinds only are manufactured into the 'plaster of Paris’ of the shops. The best specimens are obtained from the lower beds of the gypsum quarries, and are white, and granular, not un- like Carrara marble. It tak^es a high polish; I but from its softness and liability to become discoloured, articles formed of it require more careful treatment than even those of ‘ cal- careous alabaster.’ Alabaster is WROUGnT, turned, and FASHIONED, in a nearly similar manner to the softer varieties of marble. The tools resemble those employed for the like operations in ivory and brass. Machinery is now often applied to this purpose. Alabaster is POLISHED, first with pumice stone, and then with a paste or pap made of whiting, soap, and milk or water; and lastly with dry flannel. Abetter method, however, is ) to rub it first with shave-grass (equisetum), | and afterwards w\t\\ flnely-powdered and sifted slaked lime formed into a paste with water. The surface is then ‘ finished off’ by friction withflnely-powdered talc or French chalk, until a satiny lustre is produced, or with putty powder, in a similar way to marble. Alabaster is engraved with tools resembling those employed for other soft minerals. It is ETCHED by covering every part of the surface, except that to be acted on, with a solution of white wax in oil of turpentine (1 to 4), thick- ened with a little flnely-powdered white lead, and subsequent immersion in water acidulated with acetic acid or hydrochloric acid, for the ‘ calcai*eous variety;’ and in spring water, for 20 to 50 hours (according to the effect desired), for the ‘gypseous variety.’ The varnish is washed off with oil of turpentine, and the etched parts carefully brushed over viith. flnely-})0w- dered gypsum. Alabaster is JOINED and repaired by means of white of egg,or rice thickened with flnely- powdered quicklime; or by a paste of newly baked and flnely-powdered gypsum, mixed up with the least possible quantity of water. Calcareous alabaster is usually cleaned with a brush and warm soap-and-water, or with tepid water to which a few grains of car- bonate of soda or of ammonia has been added ; followed in either case by rinsing in clean water. Delicate objects in gypseous alabaster can only be safely cleaned with benzole, or with pure oil of turpentine. If necessary, the surface must be re-polished. Grease spots may be removed from either variety with a little ben- zole or oil of turpentine. Alabaster is occasionally stained or co- loured, and, for the ‘ calcareous’ variety, in a similar way to marble, ex(;ept that heat is not employed ; and for the ‘ gypseous’ variety, in the manner noticed under Plaster of Paris. The ‘ gypseous’ variety is also bronzed and HARDENED in a similar way to that adopted for casts in the latter substance. It appears, however, very bad taste to stain, colour, or bronze, so beautiful a substance as a piece of snow-white alabaster. Obs. Gypseous alabaster is decomposed by water, and, indeed, dissolved by it; and the beauty of both varieties is almost irrecoverably destroyed by grease, coloured oils, varnishes, smoke, &c. It is, therefore, unfitted for garden ornaments, or other objects exposed to the rain or weather, unless it be painted or bronzed; and is even then very perishable. Contact with acids, alkalies, and ammoniacal and sulphurous fumes, also injure, and, if pro- longed, destroy it. Even an uncorked phial of smelling-salts placed on a mantel-piece beside an alabaster vase, will soon destroy its beauty. Thus, all ‘ delicate objects’ in alabaster should be protected by a glass shade. See Bronzing, Gypsum, Mortar, Plaster of Paris, &c. Orient'al Alabaster (Factitious). Figures, basso relievos, ^'c., of considerable hardness and beauty, may be formed by imitating the pro- cess adopted at the Baths of San Filippo, before referred to.