602 EXCIPIENT-EXERCISE. a like pan, with smooth bottom and sides, will do, immersed equally deep in the same bath. If the corrugation contain three times the quantity of metallic surface, the evaporation will be threefold in the above circumstances. But if the pan, with the same corrugated bottom and sides, be set over a fire, or in an oblong flue, so that the current of fiame may sweep along the corrugations, it will evaporate no more water from its interior than a smooth pan of like shape and dimensions placed along- side it in the same flue, or over the same fire.” In the laboeatoey, steam heat is now almost exclusively employed. Copper, or tinned, glazed, or silvered copper pans, boilers, and stills, are surrounded by a ‘jacket’ of cast iron, and high-pressure steam admitted be- tween the two. By due management of the supply-cock, a range of temperature may be thus obtained extending from about 90° to 325° Fahr. It is found that, under ordinary circum- stances, 10 square feet of heated surface will evaporate fully 1 lb. of water per minute ; and that a thin copper tube exposing 10 feet sur- face will condense about 3 lb. of steam per minute, with a difference of temperature of about 90° Fahr. This is equal to 30° Fahr. per lb.; and, consequently, the heat of the steam employed to produce the evaporation should be 212° + 30° = 242° Fahr. An attention to the facts and principles thus briefly explained above will be found of great value in the laboratory. EXCIPIENT. See Peesceiption. EXCITANTS. See Stimulants. EXCORIATIONS. Syn. Speays, Chapings. In surgery and pathology, superficial injuries or affections of the skin, consisting of the removal of the scarf-skin or cuticle, accompanied with more or less irritation and slight inflamma- tions. When arising from rough friction or attrition, they are more commonly called abeasions. Young children are very apt to be chafed under the arms, behind the ears, between the thighs, and in the wrinkles and folds of the skin generally, unless great attention is paid to cleanliness, and wiping the skin per- fectly dry after washing them. Whenever there is a tendency to excoriations of this kind, either in adults or children, a Y\ti\e finely pow- dered starch, or violet powder, applied by means of a puff, or a small bag of muslin, once or twice a day, will generally remove them, and prevent their occurrence in future. Mild un- guents, as cold cream, or spermaceti cerate or ointment, may also be used with advantage. The preference should, however, be given to the remedies first named, from their not soiling the linen. See Abeasion. EX'ERCISE is essential to the healthy per- formance of the functions of both body and mind. Without it, the stomach acts feebly, the bowels become inactive, and the circulation of the blood languid and imperfect; the chest contracts, the respiration becomes impeded. the brain is insufficiently supplied with pure arterial blood, the mind grows lethargic, the complexion assumes a sickly and effeminate hue, and the whole features lack the energy and expression which they possess in perfect health. With exercise, the bodily functions are performed with vigour and regularity, by which the constitution is strengthened, and the attacks of disease repelled. By exercise the mind too is excited to healthy action, its gloomy reveries are dispelled, and the fair face of creation is presented to the mind’s eye in its proper hues. It robs undue mental exertion of half its injurious effects upon the body, whilst it stimulates and directs it in its proper course. It improves the temper, and hu- manizes the character. The disposition is refined, the passions restrained, violent emo- tions checked, the habits improved, and the personal charms promoted under the stimulus of judicious exercise. To FEMALES, bodily exercise is even more necessary than to males. The disposition and education of females are such as to tend to pro- duce habits of sloth and indolence to a greater degree than in the other sex. Hence to them exercise is doubly important—it is inseparable from health. The more retiring dispositions of females leads them almost unconsciously into habits of inactivity, which, above all, they should endeavour to shake off and avoid. By so doing—by replacing habits of indolence and inactivity by liveliness and moderate exercise, the development of the body will be promoted, additional grace and elegance imparted to its natural movements, and the enjoyments arising from both mental and bodily health increased, whilst disease and deformity will be prevented by the removal of their cause. The necessity of exercise exists equally in every grade of society and age of life. Those who are engaged in sedentary employments or in-door occupations, should particularly seek refreshing out-door exercise, during the periods of relaxation from their diurnal duties. To the studious and delicate of both sex^s, this is absolutely necessary to preserve the health and vigour of the body. In INFANCY, exercise of a suitable kind should be almost the constant occupation of the little beings that claim our protection and care. It should, however, be always borne in mind, that the muscular exercise of very young children must be of the gentlest class. Preju- dice and ignorance frequently induce nurses and parents to teach their children to walk, as they falsely call it, and thus their feeble limbs are urged to make premature efforts to totter along, before the bones and muscles have acquired sufficient strength to support the body in an erect position. From this course the legs and joints frequently become bent and misshapened, and severe injuries are often in- flicted on the head and body by blows and falls. It should never be forgotten, that crawling and rolling are their first modes of