I IODOFORM j Uses, <fc. Iodine is chiefly used as a medi- |i cine, a chemical test, and in photography. H In small doses it appears to be both alterative I and tonic, rapidly diffusing itself through the (body, and exerting a stimulating action on the I organs of secretion. It is also said to be diu- . retie, and in some cases to have produced dia- i.; phoresis and salivation. Iodine has been ex- I hibited in the following diseases, as well as in ! most others depending on an imperfect action of the absorbents, or accompanied by indura- I tion or enlargement of individual glands or organs: — Internally, in bronchocele, goitre, Derbyshire neck, scrofula, ovarian tumours, ■1 enlargement or induration of the lymphatic, i| prostate, and parotid glands, amenorrhoea, y, leiicorrhoea, diseases of the muco-genital tis- I sues, phthisis, chronic nervous diseases, lepra, •i psoriasis, chronic rheumatism, dropsies, hydro- l cele, &c. :—Externally, in scrofula, numerous ;.i skin diseases (especially the scaly), erysipelas, k diseased joints, chilblains, burns, scalds, various 1 wounds, to check ulceration, to promote ab- ,1 sorption, &c. Dose, i gr. dissolved in spirit, or in w^ater by means of an equal weight of i iodide of potassium. It is seldom exhibited t alone, being usually combined with the last- 1 named substance, which, in fact, is now gene- < rally preferred by practitioners. It is applied )j externally in the form of ointment, solution, I or tincture. M Concluding remarks. An improved method of obtaining iodine from sea-weed has been I patented by the inventor, Mr. E. C. C. Stan- j ford. Instead of allowing the weed to dry on the shores where it is found and then burning it in the open air, Mr. Stanford compresses it into cakes while it is wet, and afterwards dries I these cakes by artificial heat. They are then j submitted to destructive distillation, by which means the inventor gets double the usual amount of iodine, besides gas for lighting pur- poses, tar, volatile oils, charcoal, and other useful products. See Htdeiodic Acid, Iodic Acid, &c. Bro'mides of Iodine. Bromine and iodine unite rapidly by mere mixture. By careful distillation a red vapour is obtained, which, on ; cooling, condenses into red crystals, of a form resembling fern leaves. This is said to be the PEOTOBEOMIDE. By adding more bro- mine, these crystals are converted into a fluid, said to be a pentabeomide. Chlo"rides of Iodine. When dry chlorine is passed over dry iodine, at common tempera- tures, heat is evolved, and a yellow solid chlo- ride (teechloeide) results when the iodine j is fully saturated, and an orange-red liquid (peotochloeide) when the iodine is in excess. They both absorb moisture in the air, are vo- latile, ayd very soluble in water. lOD'OFORM. Syn. Iodofoemum, L. A solid, yellow, crystallizable substance, obtained by i the action of iodine on alcohol. I Prep. 1. An alcoholic solution of potassa I is added to tincture of iodine, carefully avoid- I —IRIDIUM. 787 ing excess; the whole is then gently evapo- rated to dryness, the residuum is washed with water, and then dissolved in alcohol; the alcoholic solution yields crystals by evapora- tion. 2. (M. Clary.) Distilled water, 12 fl. oz.; rectified spirit, 2 fl. oz.; iodine and bicarbonate of soda, of each, 1 oz.; put the ingredients into a flask and apply the heat of a water bath until the colour of the liquid disappears, and bright-yellow scales are deposited ; these are to be collected on a filter, washed with a little cold water, and dried. More iodoform may be obtained by adding fresh iodine to the same liquor as long as the latter becomes de- coloured on repeating the process. Prop., 8fc. Nearly insoluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol; the solution is decomposed by caustic potassa into formic acid and iodide of potassa. Dose. ^ gr. to 3 gr.; where the use of iodine is indicated. IPECACUAN'HA. Syn. Radix ipecacit- ANH^, Ipecacuanha (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. The root of Cephaelis Ipecacuanha, or the true ipecacuanha plant, one of the Cinchonaceoe. “ Ashy coloured, tortuous, very much cracked, and marked in rings with deep fissures, having an acrid, aromatic, bitterish taste.^' (Ph. L.) It occurs in pieces, 3 or 4 inches long, and about the size of a writing quill. Dose. As an emetic, 10 to 20 gr., assisted by the copious use of warm water; as a nauseant, 1 to 3 gr.; as an expectorant and sudorific, ^ to 1 gr. It is undoubtedly the safest and most useful medicine of its class. It has recently been highly recommended in dyspepsia, combined with other bitters or aperients. IRID'TUM. A rare metal, discovered by Descotils in 1803, and by Tennant in 1804, in the black powder left in dissolving crude pla- tinum. This powder is an alloy of iridium with osmium. The metal is also found native and nearly pure amongst the Uralian platinum ores. Prep. The native alloy of iridium and osmium, remaining after dissolving crude platinum in aqua regia, is reduced to powder, mixed with an equal weight of dry chloride of sodium, and heated to redness in a glass tube, through which a stream of moist chlorine gas is trans- mitted. The further extremity of the tube is I connected with a receiver containing liquor of ammonia. ‘ Chloride of iridium^ and ‘ chloride of osmium^ are produced; the former remains in combination with the chloride of sodium; the latter, being volatile, is carried forward into the receiver, where it is decomposed into ‘osmic’ and ‘hydrochloric acids,’ which com- bine with the ammonia. The contents of the tube, when cold, are treated with water to dis- solve out the ‘ double chloride of iridium and sodium’; the solution thus formed is mixed with an excess of carbonate of soda, and evaporated to dryness. The residue is ignited in a crucible, boiled with water, and dried; it then consists of a mixture of ‘ sesquioxide of