156 AMMONIA. I one of the sp. gr. *880 or ‘882 (sTiiONGEE li- quor OF ammonia), for dissolving essential oils, filling smelling-bottles, &c.; another at •960 (liq. of ammonia, Ph. L.); and a third, about the strength of common ‘ spirit of hartshorn,’ for which it is commonly sold. 1 measure of the first mixed with 3 measures of distilled water, produces a water of about '970 ; and with only 2 measures of water, one of about "OOO. According to Dr. Christison, the sp. gr. of the ‘ stronger commercial solution ’ ranges between *886 and '910. When a bottle containing liquor of ammonia is frequently opened, or is kept in a warm tem- perature, the solution both loses strength and absorbs a little carbonic acid. It should, there fore, be kept in well-stoppered bottles, and in a cool situation. Ma'late of Ammonia. Syn. Ammo"ni.e ma'- LAS, L. Prep. 1. (neutral malate.) Like the arseniate, but using malic acid. 2. (bimalate ; ACID malate.) Add a strong solution of malic acid to another of the neutral malate of ammonia, and cautiously eva- porate and crystallise. Large crystals ; taste, agreeably acid and saline j soluble in water. Mu"riate of Ammonia. See Hydrochlo- rate OF Ammonia. Ni'trate of Ammonia. Syn. Nitrate of OX'IDE OF ammo"nium ; Ammo"nle ni'tras, Ni'TRUM FLAMMANSf, N. SEMIVOLAT'ILE f, &c., L.; Nitrate d’ammoniaque, Fr. Prep. Saturate nitric acid (diluted with 3 or 4 times its weight of water) with sesquicarbonate of ammonia, evaporate by a gentle heat, and crystallise. When not required in a crystal- line form, it is usually evaporated to dryness at about 212° Fahr.; and the heat being care- fully raised to about 250°, the fused salt is poured out on a polished slab of iron or stone, and when solidified, broken up and put into bottles. Prop. When the evaporation of the solution is conducted at a heat under 100° Fahr., the salt is obtained in beautiful hexagonal prisms (prismat'ic nitrate of ammonia) ; when at 212°, in long silky fibres (fi'brous n. of a.) ; when by rapid evaporation and fusion, it forms a white, compact, and usually foliated mass (compact' n. of a.). It dissolves in about twice its weight of water; is slightly deli- quescent; melts at 230°, and is decomposed into nitrous gas and water at 460° Fahr. It deflagrates, like nitre, on contact with heated combustible matter. Uses, &fc. Chiefly to prepare nitrous oxide or laughing gas (of which nearly 4^ cubic feet may be procured from every lb. avoir.); and with water, to form freezing mixtures, for which purpose it may be used for any number of times by simply evaporating the solution to dryness, when the salt, obtained unaltered, is ready for another operation. Care, however, should be taken not to expose it to too great a heat, as at a certain temperature it defla- grates with violence. It is occasionally em- ployed in the laboratory to promote the com- bustion of organic bodies during incineration ; ; and sometimes, though seldom, in medicine, as a diuretic and diaphoretic. It is said to , reduce the frequency of the pulse, and the , animal heat, without affecting the head, chest, , or stomach. (Wibmer.)—Dose. 10 to 30 gr. Nitro-sul'phate of Ammonia. Syn. Ammo"ni.(E i Nitro-sul'piias, L. Dissolve sulphite of am- monia, 1 part; in water of ammonia, 5 parts; and pass nitric oxide gas through the solution; rapidly wash the crystals that form with ■ liquor of ammonia, dry in bibulous paper, without heat, and preserve them in a well- stopped bottle.—Dose. 10 to 12 gr.; in typhoid fevers, &c. Ox'alate of Ammonia. ;S'yn.OxALATE of oxide OF AMM0"NIUM ; AMMO"NIiE OX'aLAS (Ph. E.), L. Oxalate d’ammoniaque, Fr. Prep. 1. (Ph. E. 1841.) Carbonate (i. e., sesquicar- : bonate) of ammonia, 8 (?) oz. distilled water, 4 pints; dissolve, add gradually oxalic acid, 4 oz.; and evaporate, so that crystals may form on cooling. 2. Neutralise a hot solution of oxalic acid with sesquicarbonate of ammonia; evaporate and crystallise. Prop. It forms beautiful, colourless, long, rhombic prisms, which effloresce in the air; slightly soluble in cold water; freely soluble in hot water; heated in a retort, it yields ammonia, carbonate of ammonia, (cyanogen, and carbonic acid, together wdth oxamide, wdiich sublimes. Uses, S^'c. In chemistry, chiefly as a test for V lime (wdth which it produces a white precipi- j tate soluble in nitric acid), and to separate lime from magnesia, solutions of the salts of which it does not precipitate. A binox'alate may also be formed; but it possesses no prac- tical interest. Phos'phate of Ammonia. Syn. Ammo"ni.e Phos'phas, L. Prep. Saturate a solution of phosphoric acid with sesquicarbonate of ammo- nia, in slight excess; gently evaporate and crystallise by refrigeration. Diuretic, dis- cutient, and antilithic.—Dose. 3 to 10 gr., or 20 to 30 drops of a saturated solution, 3 or 4 times a day; in gout, rheumatism, and calculus, accompanied with the lithic acid diathesis; also in rickets and certain forms of dyspepsia. Pur'purate of Ammonia. See Murexide. Sesquicar'bonate of Ammonia. See Carbon- ‘ ATES OF Ammonia. Suc'cinate of Ammonia. Syn. Ammo"nia2 Suc'ciNAS, L. Prep. 1. Succinic acid, 1 part ' water, 4 parts ; dissolve, neutralise w ith • tion of ammonia, or of its carbonate, in slight l excess, and evaporate, and crystallise as directed n under the ‘ benzoate ’ or ‘ phosphate.’—Dose. 5 to 10 gr. 2. (A. s. impu"ra.—P.C.) Spirit of hartshorn, % neutralised with succinic acid (salt of amber), ! and filtered.—Dose. 10 to 20 drops, or more. } • 1 An evident misprint; less than 4 oz. (about 3| oz. > being the proper proportion. 4