360 BREATH—BREWING. BREATH (Fetid). Scarcely anything is more disagreeable or disgusting than a stinking breath. Various means have been proposed to remove this annoyance, depending princi- pally on the administration of aromatics, which by their odour smother it for a time; but these require continual repetition, and are liable to interfere with the functions of di- gestion. The real cause of stinking breath may generally be traced to a diseased stomach, or to decayed teeth. When the former is the case, mild aperients should be administered; and if these do not succeed, an emetic may be given, followed by an occasional dose of the Ahernethy-medicines} When rotten teeth are the cause, they should be thoroughly cleansed, and then ‘stopped^; or if this is impracticable, they should be removed. When this is impossible, or inconvenient, the evil may usually be lessened by keeping them scrupulously clean. Dirty teeth also often cause the breath to smell; and hence the use of the tooth-brush should be a daily habit. Occasionally rinsing out the mouth with a little clean water to which a few drops of solution of chloride of lime, or of chloride of soda, has been added, is often an effective method. As a tooth-powder, fresh-burnt charcoal, and particularly areca-nut charcoal, is without comparison the best. Lozenges, such as the following, have been strongly re- commended to sweeten and purify the breath: — Gum-catechu, 2 oz.; white sugar, 5 oz.; orris powder, 1 oz.; neroli, 5 or 6 drops; make them into a paste with mucilage, and divide the mass into very small lozenges. 20 or 30 drops of oil of cloves may be substituted for the ‘ orris ^ and ^ neroli,’ at will. One or two may be sucked at pleasure. See Cachou Aeomatise, Pastils, &c. BREW TNG. The art of making beer. The only ingeedients allowed by law to , enter into the composition of beer are malt, hops, and water, together with a little yeast. The APPAEATUS and utensils required, under the common system, in brewing beer are— 1. A copper or boiler capable of holding fully two-thirds of the quantity proposed to be brewed; with a gauge-stick to determine the number of gallons of fluid at any given depth therein; and a wooden cover to place over it before the boiling commences, or when not in use. A copper capable of holding about 150 gal. is a convenient size for brewing a quarter of malt, and is commonly known as a one-quarter copper. 2. A mash-tub or mash-tun capable of con- taining rather more than the copper. 3. One or more tuns or vessels, to ferment the beer in. 4. Three or four shallow coolers, to reduce the wort as rapidly as possible to a proper temperature for fermentation. ^ 1 See page 2. 5. One or two copper or wooden bowls, for bailing, &c. 6. A thermometer with a scale reaching from below 32° to a few degrees above the boiling point of water (say to 225° or 230° Fahr.). 7. A saccharometer, for taking the density of worts and beer. 8. A suitable number of casks (clean and sweet), to contain the beer. 9. One or more large funnels or tunners. ' 10. Two or more clean pails. 11. A hand-pump of a size proportionate to : the brewing. 12. A mill, for ‘crushing’ the malt. These articles will vary in value from £10, upwards to many hundreds, or even thousands, , according to the extent of the brewing; but ; the whole of them necessary for a private ‘ family may be bought for less than the ■ former amount, as the miU, pump, &c., may then be dispensed with, and the rest may be of the simplest and least expensive character possible. By proper care they will last for 30 or 40 years, and still continue in a useful ' state. Preliminary proceedings:— The MALT is chosen according to the in- . tended character of the brewing—pale, amber, high-dried, or any mixture of them, as the occasion may require. It is bruised or crushed in a mill (malt-mill) before employing it in brewing, that it may be the more readily acted on by the water. It should not be ground too small, as it would then make the wort thick, and cause it to run with diffi- culty from the mash-tun. The crushed malt may advantageously lie for a few days in a cool situation, by which it will attract a con- siderable quantity of moisture from the air, and be the more easily exhausted by the water used in mashing. Pale malt may be , used coarser than ‘ amber ’ or ‘ brown ’ malt. ,, A bushel of good malt should measure l-^ ' bushel when ground; and a quarter should yield between 9^ and 10 bushels, the quan- tity slightly varying according to the degree of bruising it has undergone. On the large scale, malt is ground ‘in crushing-mills’ fur- nished with iron-rollers; on the small scale, by wooden rollers or mills worked by hand. For private brewing, the malt is generally brought ready crushed or ground, for conve- nience sake. The HOPS, after being taken from the ‘pockets’ or ‘bag,’ are crumbled with the hands ready to be thrown into the copper. For ‘ general purposes ’ those grown in Kent, and of the present season, are preferred. For the ‘ finer sorts ’ of ale. East-Kent hops are commonly used; and when it is intended to ‘ keep’ the liquor for a long time, those known by the names of Country’s, Alton’s, or Farnham hops, are employed. The quantity of hops required by a given measure of malt varies from 2 lb. to 16 lb. per quarter, according to the nature of the brew-