ANNUALS—ANO M ALOUS. 176 composition ’—the last two being POisONors. | Sometimes a little carbonate of ammonia is [ also added to it, to improve the ‘ colour.’ j When quite pure, it contains about 28g of re-1 sinous colouring matter, and 20^ of colouring extractive matter, (Dr. John,) and should leave only a small quantity of insoluble resi- duum after digestion in alcohol; whilst the ash, resulting from its incineration, should not exceed to 2g. The quantity, colour, &c., of the ash, will give an easy clue to the inorganic adulterants, if any are present, which may be then followed up by a chemical examination. The presence of red lead may he detected by heating it on a piece of charcoal in the re- ducing flame of the hlow-pipe, by which a small bead of metallic lead will he obtained. If it contains chalk, ochre, gypsum, &c., the undissolved residuum of the washed ash gives the amount of the adulteration (nearly). Uses, S^c. To coloTir varnishes and lacquers; as a pigment for painting velvet and trans- parencies; as a colouring matter for cheese (1 oz. to 1 cwt. of curd), for which purpose it is not injurious, if pure; and as a dye-stuff for cotton, silk, and wool, particularly the second, to which it imparts a beautiful orange yellow hue, the shade of which may he varied from ‘ aurora ’ to * deep orange,’ by using different proportions of pearlash with the water it is dissolved in, and by applying different mordants before putting it into the dye-bath, or different rinsing liquids after- wards. The hues thus imparted are, however, all more or less fugitive. See Bixine, But- ter, Cheese, Dyeing-, Varnishes, &c. Cake Annotta. Syn. Flag annotta ; Or- lea'na in po'liiS, L. From Cayenne; bright yellow, firm and soft to the touch; in square cakes, weighing 2 or 3 lb. each. Egg Annotta. Syn. Lump annotta; Or- lea'na in o'vulis, L. Generally inferior. English Annotta. Syn. Trade a.. Reduced' A.; Orlea'na reduc'ta, L. A fraudulent mess commonly prepared from egg or flag annotta, 12 lb.; gum tragdcanth, 3 lb.; flour or farina, 7 lb. / chalk, 2 lb.; soap. lb.; train- oil, 1 pint; Venetian red, or bole, li lb.; com- mon salt, I lb.; water, q. s.; mixed by heat in a copper-pan, and formed into rolls. Sold for genuine annotta, from which it is readily distinguished by its inferior quality, and its partial solubility in alcohol. Liq'uid Annotta. See Solution of Annot- ta (below). Pu"rified Annotta. See Orelline. Roll Annotta. Syn. Orlea'na in rot'ulis, O. IN BAC'ULIS, L. From the Brazils; hard, dry, brown outside, yellow within. When pure, this is the variety most esteemed, and the one preferred for colouring cheese. Solu'tion of Annotta. Syn. Essence of An- notta, Extract of a., Annotta-dye, &c. ; SoLU'tIO ORLEA'NiE, EXTRAC'TUM O., &C., L. A strong aqueous solution of equal parts of annotta and pearlash, the whole being heated I or boiled together until the ingredients are [ dissolved. Sold in bottles. See Annotta j (above). Nankeen Dye, &c. I ANN'UALS (-u-alz). Syn. Annuelles, Fr. In botany and gardening, plants that live only one year, or hut one summer; plants that spring up, flourish, and decay, in a single season. The lives of many annuals, perhaps of all of them, may he extended by the art of the gar- dener to two years. This is effected by re- ■ tarding their development, or period of flower- ing, so that they may not produce seed—the object of vegetable life—during the first season. They thus become ‘ biennials.’ Some may even be preserved beyond two years. See Flowers, Plants, &c. ANNULO'SA. [L.] In zoology, annulose' or articulated animals; sometimes used to desig- nate a part, and sometimes the whole of the ‘ articulata ’ (which see). AN'O-. [Gr.] In composition, upwards, &c. ; as in anocathar'tic (emetic). See Ana-. AN'ODE. Literally, ‘upward way’; in elec- tro-chemistry, the ‘way in,’ or that by which the electric current enters substances through which it passes, as opposed to the cathode, or that by which it goes out; the positive pole of a voltaic battery, or the part immediately touching it. AN'ODYNE (-dine). Syn. Ano'dynus (-dm- US-), L.; AnODIN, Fr.; SCHMERZSTILLEND, Ger. That allays pain; soothing ; atalgic. Anodynes. Syn. Ano'dyna (sing., ano'dy- I num), L.; Anodins, Remedes a., Fr. In me- i dicine and pharmacy, substances and agents * which allay pain. Some (as the paregorics) act by actually assuaging pain; others (hyp- notics), by inducing sleep; whilst a third class (narcotics), give ease % stupifying the senses, or by lessening the susceptibility to pain. Among the principal anodynes are opium, mor- phia, henbane, qamphor, ether, chloroform, and other medicines of the like kind; to which must he added spirituous liquors, wines, and the stronger varieties of malt-liquor. “ The frequent use of anodynes begets the neces- sity of their continuance.” (W. Cooley.) In'fantile Anodyne (-ile). Syn. Ano'dynum infan'tile (-til-e), L. Prep. Take of syrup of poppies, 1 oz.; aniseed-water, 3 oz.; French brandy, | oz. (or rectifled spirit, ^ oz.) ; cal- cined magnesia, \ oz.; mix. An excellent ano- dyne and antacid for infants. Pose. A small teaspoonful as required. Mar'tial Anodynef. Syn. Ano'dynum mar- TiA'LEf, L. Precipitated sesquioxide of iron. Min'eral Anodynef. Syn. Ano'dynum mi- NERA'LEf, L. From the water used to waslui diaphoretic antimony, evaporated to drjmes^-i Also an old name of sal prunella. ^ i ANODYN'IA (-dm'-y’a). Freedom froinT!. pain; anaesthesia. | ANOM'ALOUS. Syn. Anomalis'tic* ; A- j NOM'ALUS, AnOM'ALIS, L. ; AnOMAL, ANO- j