250 AXUNGE-BACK. AX'UNGE (-iinje). Syn. Axun'gia (Ph. E.), L. Primarily, ‘ wheel-grease’; the lard or fat of an animal; restricted in pharmacy to hog’s lard.—Axgngia cuea'ta, a. prepaea'ta, is prepared or washed hog’s lard (which see). AZOBEFZIDE (az-o-ben'-zid). Syn. Azo- ben'zole. A peculiar substance, discovered by Mitscherlitz. Prep. From nitrohenzole, heated with a strong alcoholic solution of pure polassa, and submitted to distillation. The first portion which passes over is ‘ alcohol ’; the next, an oily liquid, consisting chiefly of aniline and AZOBENZOLE, from which the latter is deposi- ted utider the form of large red crystals in cooling. Or the ‘ distillate ’ is immediately treated with hydrochloric acid, to dissolve the ‘aniline,’ and then poured into a wet filter, when the ‘acid solution of aniline’ passes through, leaving the azobenzole as a red oily liquid, which, in a few moments, solidi- fles into a mass of rich red or golden-brown crystals of considerable size and beauty. Prop., Sfc. Nearly insoluble in water; dis- solves readily in alcohol, and in ether ; melts at 149° Fahr.; and boils at 379° Falir. It yields numerous derivative compounds. Treated with fuming nitric acid it yields ni'teo- azoben'zide and bini'teo-azoben'zide ; and with sulphide of ammonium, benzidine. (See below.) AZOBEIT'ZOIDE (-zo-id). A white powder, produced along with azobenzotle, by the action of pure water of ammonia on oil of bitter almonds, “ by making the ammonia pass down through a wide tube fllled with almond- pap. The operation must be continued for weeks.” (Ure.) Or more quickly, by treat- ing with ammonia the oil distilled, per descensum, from bit ter-almonds, and digest- ing the substance thus obtained in ether. The resulting white powder is ‘ azobenzoide.’ It “ is probably impure hydrobenzamide.” (C. G. Williams.) AZOBEN'ZOYLE (-zo-il). Syn. Azoben'- ZTLE. A white crystalline powder, obtained by boiling the residuum of the preparation of benzhy dr amide in about 100 parts of alcohol; it is deposited as the liquid cools. See Azo- BENZOIDE. Obs. The above compounds, with some others of a like character, possess considerable inter- est in theoretical chemistry, but are of little practical importance. See Benzole, Ben- ZOYLE, &c. AZOERYTirRINE (-rith'-rin). A substance obtained, by Kane, from archil. It is insoluble in alcohol, ether, and water; but is very soluble in alkaline lyes, to which it imparts a port-wine colour.^ See Eeytheine, Eet- TIIEOLEINE, &C. AZO'IC. Syn. AzootTc; AzoTciJS, AzootT- cus, &c., L. Lifeless; wholly destitute of organic life. In geology, <^c., applied to strata which do not contain organic remains. 1 “ FAil. Trans.,1840. AZOLIT'MINE (az-o-lit'-min). A dark-red substance obtained, by Kane, from litmus, of which it forms a large portion of the colouring matter. It is insoluble in alcohol, and in water unless alkalised. See Eeytheoleine, Lit- mus, &c. AZOMAETC ACID. A compound discovered by Laurent, and formed when pimaric acid is submitted tq, the action of nitric acid. See Pimaric Acid. AZ'OTANE. Chloride of nitrogen. (Sir H. Davy.) AZ'OTE* (az’-ote; a'-zote). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Azo'tum*, L. ; Azot*, Gei\ Nitrogen (because it is unfit for respiration). AZOTIC. Syn. AzotTcum, L. ; Azotique, Fr.; Azotisch, Ger. Of or like azote, or con- taining it or formed from it; irrespirable; destructive to life.—Azotic AciDf is nitric acid; A. OAsf, nitrogen.—Azo'tous ACiDf was nitrous acid. AZ'OTISED (-tlzd). Containing azote or nitrogen; a common epithet of nitrogenous substances used as food. See Food, Nutri- tion, &c. AZOTUEETT'ED (az-zo-tu-). Containing or combined with azote; azotised.—Azoturetted HY'DROOENf, ammonia. AZUL'MIC acid. Syn. Azul'mine (-mm). The name given by M. Boullay to the black matter deposited during the spontaneous de- composition of hydrocyanic acid, on account of its resemblance to ulmic acid. AZ'UEE (azh'-ure ; a'-zhure — Knowles, Smart, Walker). Syn. C^ru'leum, L. ; Azur, Fr.; Hellblau, Himmelblau, Ger. In dyeing and painting, sky-blue; also the name of one or more pigments which possess this colour. See Blue Dyes, Blue Pig- ments, Smalts, Ultramarine, &c. AZ'URE-STONE. Lapis lazuli. AZ'URITE (-ite). In mineralogy, lazulite; blue malachite; sometimes, lapis lazuli (the name being, unfortunately, very loosely applied by different writers). AZ'YMOUSf (-e-mus). Syn. Az'ymus, L. Unleavened; unfermented; as, sea-biscuit. Un- leavened bread was formerly termed AZ'YMEf (-e-me) and Az'YMUsf, by theologists. BAB'I AH. The rind or shell of the fruit of mimosa cineraria. According to Dr. Ure, it contains a considerable quantity of gallic acid, some tannin, a red colouring principle, and an azotised substance, and is the article imported from the East Indies and Senegal under the name of neb-neb.—Used as a cheap dye-stuff for various shades of drab and gray. BAC'CA (bak'-a). [L.; pi. ,bac'c8e, bak'-se.] A berry. BACK. [D., bak, a bowl or cistern.] Syn. Bag. In brewing, a large, open, flat reservoir or cistern; commonly that in which wort is cooled. In distillation, the vessel into which the wort is pumped from the coolers, in order to be ‘worked’ with yeast. The liquor-back