SARSAPARILLIN—SAUCE. 1186 of deadly sickness, and other dangerous symp- toms, following its use.” “ We do not believe that a particle of real sarsaparilla ever entered into the composition of either of the articles referred to.” (‘ Med. Circ.,^ ii, 227.) See De- coction and Exteact. SARSAPARIL'LIN. Syn. Paeiglin, Pa- EILLIC ACID, SaLSAPAEIN, SmILACIN. A white, crystallizahle, odourless, and nearly tasteless substance, discovered by Pallotta and Folchi, in Sarsaparilla. Prep. The bark of Jamaica sarsaparilla is treated with hot rectified spirit, and the re- sulting tincture reduced to about one third by distilling off the spirit; the residual liquid is then filtered, whilst boiling, slightly con- centrated by evaporation, and set aside to crystallize j the crystalline deposit is redis- solved in either hot rectified spirit or boiling water, and decoloured by agitation with a little animal charcoal; the filtrate deposits crystals of nearly pure smilacin as it cools. It may also be extracted by boiling water. Prop., &CC. By some, this substance has been regarded as a weak acid; by others, as an alkaloid or base, but its general characters and chemical composition show it to be a neutral principle. Water holding a very small quantity of it in solution froths considerably on agitation. This is especially the case with infusion of Jamaica sarsaparilla, and this property has consequently been proposed as a test of the quality of sarsaparilla root. Its medicinal properties are similar to those of sarsaparilla. According to Pallotta, it is a powerful sedative, and diminishes the vital energies in proportion to the quantity taken. Dose. 2 to 10 gr.; in the usual cases in which the root* is given. SAS'SAFRAS. Syn. Sassapeas eadix, Sas- SAFEAS (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “ The root of Sassafras officinale, Nees. {Laurus sassafras, Linn.)”—Ph. L. It has a fragrant odour, and a sweetish aromatic taste. It has long been reputed a stimulating alterative, dia- phoretic, diuretic, and tonic; and an infusion of the chips (sassafeas chips), under the name of sassafeas tea, has been a popular ‘diet drink^ in various cutaneous afiections, gout, chronic rheumatism, &c. SATURA'TION. The state in which a body has taken its full dose, or chemical proportion, of any other substance with which it can combine, or which it can dissolve; as water with sugar or a salt, or an alkali with an acid, when the properties of both are neu- tralized. SAUCERS (for Dyeing). Prep. 1. (Blue.) From blue carmine, made into a paste with gum water, which is then spread over the inside of the saucers, and dried. 2. (Pink.)—a. From pure rouge mixed with a little carbonate of soda, then made into a paste with thin gum water, and applied as the last. I b. Well- washed safflower, 8 oz.; carbonate of soda, 2 oz. ; water, 2 gallons; infuse, stn, add of French chalk (scraped fine with h rushes), 2 lb.; mix well, and precipitate e colour by adding a solution of tartaric a / collect the red powder, drain it, add a y small quantity of gum, and apply the j e to the saucers. Inferior. Both the abovt fe used to tinge silk stockings, gloves, &c. SAUCE. A liquid or semi-liquid condiiit or seasoning for food. The following rec(,,a for sauces may be useful to the reader:— Ancho'vy Sauce. 1. (Extemporane<i) From 3 or 4 anchovies, chopped small; 3 oz.; water, a wine-glassful; vinegar, 2 ti,3- spoonfuls; flour, 1 do.; stir the mixture ;r the fire till it thickens, then rub it thrc h a coarse hair sieve. 2. (Wholesale.) As essence of anch n (p. 579). Other fish sauces may be ma( n the same manner. Ap''ple Sauce. From sharp apples, C(5[, sliced, stewed with a spoonful or two of u r, and then beaten to a perfectly smooth p with a little good moist sugar. Tomato, id many other like sauces, may be made in le same manner. Sauce Aristocratique. From green-wM juice and anchovies, equal parts; cloves, ? e, and pimento, of each, bruised, 1 dr. to t y lb. of j uice; boil and strain, then add to < y pint, 1 pint of vinegar, ^ pint of port i,f, i pint of soy, and a few shallots; let le whole stand for a few days, and decant le clear liquor. Bech'amel. A species of fine white bro or consommee, thickened with cream, and us( |U ‘WHITE SATJCE.^ Ca'per Sauce. Put twelve table-spoo‘J of melted butter into a stewpan, place it oi.!ie fire, and, when on the point of boiling, a 1 oz. of fresh butter and 1 table-spoonfi of capers; shake the stewpan round over be fire until the butter is melted, add a le pepper and salt, and serve where dire d. Also as MINT SAUCE. Chut'ney Sauce. 1. From sour apples and cored), tomatoes, brown sugar, and sn w raisins, of each, 8 oz.; common salt, 4oz.,ed chillies and powdered ginger, of each, 2 •/ garlic and shallots, of each, 1 oz.; poun( he whole well, add, of strong vinegar, 3 qu s; lemon juice, 1 do.; and digest, with free nt agitation, for a month; then pour off n Iv all the liquor, and bottle it. Used for sh or meat, either hot or cold, or to flavour s &c. The residue is the ‘ Chutney,’‘C'T- NEY,’ or ‘Chitni,’ which must be grour to a smooth paste with a stone and mullerod then put into pots or jars. It is used ke mustard. 2. (Bengal chitni.) As the last,|ut using tamarinds instead of apples, and j>ly sufficient vinegar and lemon juice to foi* ® paste. I Cor'atch. From good mushroom ket^P> ^ gall.; walnut ketchup, | pint; India soynd