944 NOMENCLATURE. one acid compound with oxygen, the name of this acid is formed by adding the termination -IC to that of the radical, or to the leading or characteristic portion of it; as sulphuric acid, an acid of sulphur. This is Latinized by chang- ing -ic into -ICUM; as, acidum sulphurLCV^l.— b. When a body forms two acid compounds with oxygen, the name of the one containing the proportion of that substance ends in -ous; as, arsenious acid, which contains 1 equivalent of arsenic with three of oxygen;! arsenic acid, containing 1 eq. of arsenic with Jive of oxygen. In this case the Latin name ends in -ostjm j as, acidum o'sm^osuM.—c. When a substance forms more than two acids with oxygen, the Greek preposition hypo- (below or under) is prefixed to the name of the acid in -otrs or -ic next above it; as, HY- Vonitrous acid.—d. When a new acid com- pound of a substance is discovered, containing more oxygen than another acid of the same substance already known, the name of which ends in -ic, the prefix per- or hy'PEE- is added; as, Ti^niodic acid. This may be illus- trated by the compounds of oxygen and chlo- rine :— lU'poclilornus acid {acidum hjpochlorosum) Cl 0 Chlorous „ ( „ chlorGSum) . Cl O3 Hypocliloric „ ( „ hypochloricum) Cl 0^ Chloi'ic „ ( „ chloricnm) . Cl O5 ( .. CIO, Oxides. The names of these have, in general, reference to the number of equivalents of oxy- gen which they contain. When a metal or base forms only one basic compound with oxy- gen, this compound is simply called the oxide of such base; but as most substances form more than one compound with oxygen, certain prefixes are introduced to express the propor- tions. In such cases it is generally found that one out of the number has a strongly marked basic character, and contains 1 equivalent of each of its constituents. This is called the oxide or protoxide, and forms the standard to which those both above it and below it are preferred. Thus, supposing M to be the metal or base, we may have :— Siiljoxide or dioxide {suhoxydum, dioxydwii) M2O Oxide or protoxide {oxydim,protoxydum) M 0 Ses(piioxide {sesquioxydum) . . . M2O3 Eiiioxide or deutoxide {hhioxydum) dent- oxyduhi) _ . M Oj Teroxide or tritoxide {(eroxydum, trit- oxydum) M O3 r That contain koxygen. Salts.—a. The name of the salt of an acid in -ic ends in -ate, and is Latinized by -as ; as, carbonA.T'E of lime, sulphATE of protoxide of iron; calcis carhonAB, &c.— b. The name of the salt of an acid in -ous ends in -ite, and is Latinized, by -IS; as hypochloriTV. of soda; sodce hypochlot'is. For the sake of brevity the wmrd oxide, in speaking of the ordinary metallic salts, is omitted, and we simply say sulphate of iron, acetate of lead, &c.^—c. The preceding names are presumed to refer to neutral compounds. In acid salts the prefixes noticed above are added to ex- press the equivalent proportions of the acid; as, Biyiacetate, SESQUisw/^wAa^c, &c.—d. In basic salts, or those in which the base is in ex- cess, the prefix sub- or Di- is employed, in the way before pointed out; as, Diacetate of lead, ^VBnitrate of mercury, &c. In many cases the previous terms are used with the nmrd ^ basic’ added, by which the number of equivalents of base instead of acid are in- dicated ; as, sesquibasic acetate of lead, tribasic a. of 1. Nox-metallic bodies, &c. The names of the compounds formed by the union of the non-metallic elements, and certain other bodies, with the metals and with each other, either terminate in -IDE, Latinized by -idum, or in -URET, Latinized by -uretum ; as, arseniBE or arseniimET (arseniDVM, arsenixJB.E^TVM), bromiDE, carbiD'E or cariURET, c/i/oriDE, cyan- IDE, JluoriD'E, hydriDE, iodiDTi, sulphiBE or sulphUBET, &c. Thefrst of these termiua- tions is the now prevailing one among English scientific chemists. The prefixes already no- ticed are also employed here. Metals. The names of the metals (those of them, at least, that have been given during the present century) end in -ium or (less fre- quently) in -UM; as, potassiVAL, sodiVM, pla- ^muM. The Latin names of several of the non-metallic elementary bodies also end in -lUM; as, iodiniVbi, nitrogeniv^i, &c. Alkaloids. The names of the organic bases which resemble the alkalies in their pro- perties end either in -ia, -xa, or -ixe; as, morphiA, quinA, sirychnii^E. These termina- tions are now limited, as much as possible, to substances exhibiting basic properties, but were formerly very loosely applied. Many chemists reject the first two termina- tions, and apply -ixe to every substance of this class; as, morphiTSE, quinii^ns,, aniliiSE, &o. It is to be hoped that this practice will become general. Other oegaxic substaxces. The names of organic radicles generally terminate in -YL; as, ethYij, methYE, benzoYE, &c.; they mostly contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Compounds corresponding to the electro-nega- tive elements have the termination -ogex, as eyanOGEX, nmeWoGEX. Neutral compounds of carbon and hydrogen, mostly liquid, have the termination -OL or -ole ; as, benzOY, pyrOE. Other neutral substances, generally solid, have the termination-IX; o.s,paraffm, naphthalm. Compounds resembling ammonia, and generally considered as ‘ substitution compounds’ of that body, terminate in -AiviiXE; as, eMy/AMiXE, projiylAYimE. 1 Many of oiu’ leading chemists now use analogous names for the salts of tbe alkalies and earths; tlms,jj] instead of the ‘ sulphate of soda,’ ‘ nitrate of potassa, ‘ carbonate of lime,’ &c., they write sulphate of sodmw, nitrate of potassium, carbonate of calcium, &c.