1030 PAPER. Parch'ment Paper. Syn. Papyein, Vege- table PAECHMENT. Prep. 1, (Poumarede and Figuier.) Dip white unsized paper for half a minute in strong sulphuric acid, sp. gr. 1-842, and afterwards in water containing a little ammonia. 2. (W. E. Gaine, Patent 1857.) Plunge unsized paper for a few seconds into sulphuric acid diluted with half to a quarter its bulk of water (this solution being of the same tem- perature as the air), and afterwards wash with weak ammonia. This process, now extensively worked by Messrs. De la Rue and Co., pro- duces a much better material than does that of Poumarede and Figuier. Prop. A tough substance, resembling animal parchment, and applicable to the same pur- poses. It is largely used for covering pots of pickles and preserves, and by the chemist for the intervening membrane in experiments in diffusion. See Dialysee, Dialysis, &c. Ea"zor Paper. Smooth unsized paper, one of the surfaces of which, whilst in a slightly damp state, has been rubbed over with a mixture of calcined sesquioxide of iron and emery, both in impalpable powder. It is cut up into pieces (about 5X3 inches), and sold in packets. Used to wipe the razor on, which thus does not require stropping. Eazor-strop Paper. From emery and quartz (both in impalpable powder), and paper pulp (estimated in the dry state), equal parts, made into sheets of the thickness of drawing paper, by the ordinary process. For use, a piece is pasted on the strop and moistened with a little oil. Ees'in Japer. Syn. Pooe-man’s elastee ; Chaeta eesinosa, L. Prep. 1. Bees' wax, 1 oz.; tar and resin, of each, 3 oz.; melted together and spread on paper. 2. (Ph. Bor.) Paper, thinly spread over with black pitch. Calefacient, stimulant, and counter-irritant; in rheumatism, chest affec- tions, &c. Eheu'matism Paper. See Gout and Resust Papees. Safe'ty Paper. Syn. Papiee de sdeete, Fr. White paper pulp mixed with an equal quantity of pulp tinged with any stain easily affected by chlorine, acids, alkalies, &c., and made into sheets as usual. Test Paper. Syn. Chaeta exploeatoeia, L. Under this head may be conveniently in- cluded all the varieties of prepared paper em- ployed in testing. For this pm-pose, sheets of tmsized paper or of good ordinary writing paper (preferably the first), are uniformly w'etted with a solution of the salt, or with a cold in- fusion or decoction of the tinctorial substance in distilled water, and are then hung up to dry in a current of pure air; they are, lastly, cut into pieces of a convenient size, and preserved in closed bottles or jars. For use, a small strip of the prepared paper is either dipped into or moistened with the liquid under exa- mination, or it is moistened "with distilled water, and then exposed to the fumes. A single drop, or even less, of any liquid may be thus tested. The following are the principal test papers and their applications:— Beazil-wood Papee. From the decoction. Alkalies turn it purple or violet; strong acids, red. Buckthoen Papee. From the juice of the berries. Reddened by acids. Cheeey-jijice Papee. As the last. Dahlia'Papee, Geoeghsta P. From an in- fusion of i'he petals of the violet dahlia {Georgina purpurea). Alkalies turn it green; acids, red; strong caustic alkalies turn it yellow. Very delicate. Eldeebeeey Papee. From the juice of the berries. As the last. Indigo Papee. From a solution of indigo. Decoloured by chlorine. Iodide op Potassihm Papee.—a. From the solution in distilled water. Turned blue by an acidulated solution of starch. b. From a mixture of a solution of iodide of potassium and starch paste. Turned blue by chlorine, ozone, and the mineral acids, and by air containing them. Lead Papee. From a solution of either acetate or diacetate of lead. Sulphuretted hydrogen and hydrosulphuret of ammonia turn it black. Litmus Papee. In general, this is pre- pared from infusion of litmus, without any pre- caution, but the following plan may be adopted when a superior test paper is desired:— a. (Blue.) Triturate commercial litmus, 1 oz., in a wedgwood-ware mortar, with boiling water, 3 or 4 fi. oz.; put the mixture into a flask, and add more boiling water until the liquid measures fully ^ pint; agitate the mixture frequently until it is cold, then filter it, and divide the filtrate into two equal portions; stir one of these with a glass rod previously dipped into very dilute sulphuric acid, and repeat the operation until the litmus infusion begins to look very slightly red, then add the other half of the filtrate, and the two being mixed to- gether, dip strips of unsized paper into the liquid, in the usual manner, and dry them. Acids turn it red; alkalies, green. The neutral salts of most of the heavy metallic oxides also redden this, as well as the other blue test papers that are affected by acids. b. (Red.) The treatment of the whole quan- tity of the infusion (see above) with the rod dipped in dilute sulphuric acid is repeated until the fluid begins to look distinctly red, when the paper is dipped into it, as before. The alkalies and alkaline earths, and their sulphurets, re- store its blue colour; the alkaline carbonates and the soluble borates also possess the same property. Very sensitive. An extemporaneous red litmus paper may be prepared by holding a strip of the blue variety over a pot or jar into which 2 or 3 drops of hydrochloric acid have been thrown.