638 FILTRATION. The forms of filters, and the suhstances of which they are composed, are various, and de- pend upon the nature of the liquids for which they are intended. On the small scale, funnels of tin, zinc, copper, wedgwood-ware, earthen- ware, glass, or porcelain, are commonly em- ployed as the containing vessels. (See engr.) The filtering medium may be any substance of a sufficiently spongy or porous \ ^^ture to allow of the free percolation of the liquid, and \ / whose pores are, at the same \ f time, sufficiently small to ren- der it limpid or transparent, O Unsized paper, flannel, linen, y/ calico, cotton wool, felt, sand, M 6 coarsely powdered charcoal, porous stone, or earthenware, and numerous other substances of a similar kind, are employed for this purpose. For many liquids that^/ifer easily, and in which the suspended matter is of a coarse and porous nature, it is often sufficient merely to place a little cotton wool or tow, or a small piece of sponge, in the neck of the funnel, as at (a) in the above engr.; but such an apparatus, from the small extent of the filtering surface, acts either slowly or imperfectly, and soon gets choked up. Filters of unsized paper are well suited for all liquids that are not of a corrosive or viscid nature, and are universally employed for filtering small quantities of li- quids in the laboratory. A piece of the paper is taken of a size pro- portionate to the quantity of the liquid to be filtered, and is first doubled from corner to corner into a triangle (see engr.), which is again doubled into a smaller tri- angle, and the angular portion of the margin being rounded off with a pair of scissors, it constitutes a paper cone, which is placed on a funnel of proportionate capacity, and is then nearly filled with the liquid. A piece of paper so cut, when laid fiat upon the table, should be nearly circular. Filter- ing paper is now sold ready cut in circles of various sizes, which simply require doubling for use. Another method of forming a paper filter, preferred by some persons, is to double the paper once, as above (see fig. 2), and then to fold it in a similar way to a fan, observing so to open it and lay it on the funnel that a suffi- cient interval be left between the two to permit of the free passage of the filtered liquid on its descent tow’ards the receiver. The ‘plaited filter,’ as thus formed, is exceedingly useful for general purposes; it exposes the entire surface of the paper to the liquid, and allows filtration to proceed more rapidly than a ‘plain filter’ does. (See engr.) In reference to funnels, it may be remarked. that those employed for filtering rapidly should be deeply ribbed on the inside, or small rods of wood or glass, or pieces of straw, or quills, should be placed between them and the paper. The neck or tubular part of the funnel should, in like manner, be deeply rubbed or fluted on the outside, to permit of the free passage of the air, when it is placed in a nar- row-mouthed bottle or receiver. When this is not the case, filtration proceeds but slowly, and the filtered liquid is apt to be driven up the outside of the neck of the funnel by the confined air, and to be continually hissing and flowing over the mouth of the vessel. The breadth of a funnel, to filter well, should he about three fourths of its height, reckoning from the throat (a). When deeper, the paper is liable to be continually ruptured, from the pressure of the superincumbent fluid; and when shallower, filtration proceeds slowly, and an unnecessarily large surface of the liquid is exposed to the atmosphere, and is lost by eva- poration. To lessen this as much as possible, the upper edge of the glass is frequently ground perfectly smooth, and a piece of smooth plate-glass is laid thereon. When paper fillers are of large dimensions, or employed for aqueous fluids that rapidly soften the texture of the paper, or for collecting heavy powders, or me- tallic precipitates, it is usual to support them on linen or calico, to prevent their breaking. Tills is best done by folding the cloth up with the paper, and cutting the filter out of the two, in the same way as would be done with doubled paper, observing so to place it in the funnel that the paper and calico may remain close together, especially towards the bottom. The filtration of small quantities of liquid, as in chemical experiments, may often be conveniently performed by merely placing the paper on the circular top of a recipient (see engr.), or on a ring of glass or earth- enware laid on the top of any suitable vessel. A filter of this kind that will hold one fluid ounce will filter many ounces of some liquids in an hour. Good filtering paper should contain no soluble matter, and should not give more than 2^ to 2^5 of its weight of ashes. The soluble matter may be removed by washing it, first, with very dilute hydrochloric acid, and secondly, with distilled water. For filtering a larger quantity of a liquid than can be conveniently managed with a funnel, and also for substances that are either too viscid or too much loaded with feculence to allow them to pass freely through paper, conical bags made of flannel, felt, tweeled COTTON CLOTH Or CaNTON FLANNEL, LINEN or CALICO, and suspended to iron-hooks hy rings or tapes, are commonly employed. The first two of the above substances are pre- ferable for saccharine, mucilaginous, and acidu- 1 J\ f