656 FLOWERS. 2-3rds filled with water, and after the ‘ head’ is fitted on, the water is kept boiling for 30 hours (2 days of 15 hours each). Lastly, the upper layer being removed, the rest is reduced to powder, and kept in a dry place. Boiled Flour. &yn. Teiticixa, Faei^^a PEEPAEATA, L. Prep. From fine fiour, tied up in a linen cloth as tight as possible, and after it has been frequently dipped into cold water, the outside of the cloth is dredged over with flour, until a crust is formed round it, to prevent the water soaking into it whilst boiling ; it is then boiled for a long time, and when cold, it is divided into small oblong pieces. For use, it is reduced to powder, either by grinding or grating it, and is then prepared like arrow-root. It forms a good diet for children, in diarrhoea, &c.; and as it may be easily prepared at home, it has the advantage of being free from adulteration. Jones’s Patent Flour. Prep. From kiln- dried fiour, 1 cwt.; tartaric acid, 10^ oz. ; mix thoroughly; after 2 or 3 days, add, of Hear- honate of soda, 12 oz.; lump sugar, ^ lb.; common salt, 1^ lb.; mix, and pass the com- pound through the ‘ dressing machine.’ It is necessary that the whole of the ingredients should be perfectly dry, and separately reduced to fine powder before adding them to the flour. By simply mixing it with cold water, and at once baking it, it produces light, porous bread. Obs. We have already had occasion to pay a passing tribute to the excellence and useful- ness of Jones’s Patent Flour} It is, indeed, invaluable in every household, as furnishing the means of producing, with great economy, and extemporaneously, not merely cakes, pud- dings, pastry, and fancy bread, but the ‘ staff of life’ itself, household bread, of a purity, flavour, and lightness, seldom, if ever, met w’ith in that purchased of the bakers. Sewell’s Patent Flower.—a. (No. 1.) Flour, 1 sack (280 lb.) ; hydrochloric acid (sp. gr. j 1'14), 45 oz.; mix, by adding the acid in a I * spray.’—b. (No. 2.) To the last, add (expertly) | bicarbonate of soda, 39 oz. / mix thoroughly, and pass the whole through a sieve or ‘ dress- I ing machine.’ | Obs. This flour is used as the last, to which,! however, it is inferior in quality. No. 1 will | keep 5 weeks. No. 2 will keep a month, i {Jones’s flour will keep good in a dry place for ^ years.) If No. 1 is alone employed for the dough, | to each pound of the flour, 63 gr. of bicarbonate \ of soda, with salt, q. s., must be added. The ; patentee claims for his invention the merit of' the soda and acid being converted into culinary | salt in the process of mixing up the flour and ^ baking the dough.’ i FLOWERS. Syn. Floees, L. These beau- tiful and fragrant ornaments of our gardens, and our dw'ellings, are too highly esteemed by ' all classes of the community to require any-1 thing in favour of their cultivation to be said | ’ See rxmuiEXTED Bread,3o8. ' here. Our remarks will, therefore, chiefly refer to their collection, improvement, and preservation. ‘ Full’ or ‘ double flowers,’ or those in whicli the internal organs become petals, are so mucli more beautiful than the ^ single flowers’ of the corresponding species and varieties, that their production, with tolerable ease and certainty, has long been a desideratum with both the professional and amateur florist. Various plans have been proposed having this object in view, among which are the following;—1. The use of the best seed only, but not before it is at teast 3 or 4 years old.—2. The selection of the outer row of seed only, and its careful preserva- tion intact for at least 2 seasons before sowing it. We are assured that this method is parti- cularly successful with dahlias.—3. The removal of the plants to a shady situation as soon as the flow’er-buds begin to develop themselves, and stinting them with water and nourishment for a few weeks. In this method a few only of the buds are permitted to mature; the rest being snipped off with a pair of scissors as early as possible.—4. The use of small pols and a scanty supply of waler until the flowers are partly developed, when water is supplied in abundance, with or without the addition of a little liquid manure. To hasten t\\Q ^blooming’ of flowers, it is a common practice with the gardeners to grow them in as small pots as is consistent with their healthy existence, and carefully to avoid trans- planting them to larger pots, for several weeks before their usual time of blossoming. A plant on the point of flowering, if transferred to a larger pot and a richer soil, immediately com- mences making roots and leaves, whilst the embryo flowers either wholly decay, or their development is checked until the usual season of their production has passed over. The following liquid has been used with great advantage to promote the vigorous growth and the early flowering of plants:—Sulphate or nitrate of ammonia, 4 oz.; nitrate of potassa, 2 oz.; sugar, 1 oz. ; hot water, 1 pint; dissolve and keep it in a well-corked bottle. For use, put 8 or 10 drops of this liquid into the water of a hyacinth glass or jar, for bulbous-rooted plants, changing the water every 10 or 12 days. For flowering plants in pots, a few' drops must be added to the water employed for them. The preference should be given to rain water for this purjiose. The fluid sold under the name of ‘ liquid guano’ may be used in the same manner. Flowers may be preserved in a fresh state for a considerable time, by keeping them in a moist atmosphere. When growing on the parent stem, the large amount of evaporation from the surface of their leaves is compensated for by an equivalent proportion of moisture supplied by the roots; but when they are plucked, the evaporation from the surface con- tinues, while the supply of moisture is cut off To supply, in part, this loss of moisture by