CHONDRINE—CHROMIC ACID. 444 absolute alcohol, in the cold, and after filtra- tion ether is added; at first a brownish, resinous mass is deposited, and after some time stellated crystals of cholate or glyco- cholate of soda and potassa {crystallized bile, of Plainer); a solution of these crystals, de- composed by dilute sulphuric acid, yields a solution of cholic acid, from which crystals may be obtained by evaporation. Prop., S^c. Delicate white needles; bitter tasted; soluble in water, and in alcohol, and slightly so in ether; boiled with solution of potassa, it is converted into glycocine or gela- tine sugar and cholalic acid; boiled with concentrated sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, it yields glycocine and a new white, amorphous compound, named choloidin'ic acid. Cholic acid differs from choleic acid chiefiy in not containing sulphur. CHON'DRINE. Gelatine obtained from cartilage. It differs from ordinary gelatine, in being precipitable by acetic acid, alum, and acetate of lead. CHRO'MATE. Syn. Cheo'mas, L. A salt of chromic acid. Prep. The insoluble cheomates, as those of baryta, zinc, lead, mercury, silver, &c., may be made by mixing a soluble salt of those bases with neutral chromate of potassa. The first three are yellow; the fourth, brick-red; and tbe fifth, reddish brown, or ruby red when crystallized. The soluble cheomates may all be made by direct solution of the base in the acid, or by double decomposition. The chromates of commerce are prepared from either chrome ore or chromate of potassa. See the respective bases. Prop., Uses, 8fc. The chromates are charac- terised by their yellow or red colour, the latter predominating when the acid is in excess; and except those with the alkaline bases, they are, for the most part, insoluble in water. Both the chromate and bichromate of potassa are extensively used in dyeing and calico-printing. The former is employed in conjunction with sulphuric acid in the laboratory as an oxidizing agent, and in the manufactory for bleaching sperm oil. The bichromate of ammonia is used in photography. See Cheomic Acid, Yellow Dyes, and Pigments, &c. Tests.—1. On boiling a chromate in hydro- chloric acid mixed with alcohol, chromic acid is first set free, and then decomposed, forming a green solution of chloride of chromium. Sulphuretted hydrogen and sulphurous acid effect similar changes.—2. With acetate of lead, the chromates give a yellow precipitate; —3, with nitrate of silver, a reddish-brown; —4, with nitrate of mercury, a red one. CHROME ALUM. See Alums. CHROME GREEN. See Geeen Pigments. CHROME RED. See Red Pigments. CHROME YELLOW. See Cheomate oe Lead. CHRO'MIC ACID. Syn. AcTdum cheo- mi'cum, L, This interesting compound occurs in nature in combination with lead as CHEOME- YELLOW, and with iron as cheome ieon-oee. Prep. 1. By conducting gaseous fluoride of chromium into a silver or platinum vessel, the sides of which are just moistened with water, and the aperture covered with a piece of moist paper, the acid will be deposited under the form of red, acicular crystals, which wiR nearly fill the vessel. When the process is skilfully conducted, the product is of exquisite beauty and chemically pure. 2. (Warrington—nearly pure.) Cold satu- rated solution of bichromate of potassa, 2 parts; pure oil of vitriol (strongest), 3 parts; both by volume; mix. As the liquor cools, the chromic acid is deposited under the form of brilliant crimson-red prisms; the mother- liquor is then poured oflF, and the crystals, placed between two tiles of glass or porcelain, are submitted to strong pressure for some time, under a bell-glass or jar, when the acid will be found sufficiently dry. It may be de- prived of a little adhering moisture, by placing it over sulphuric acid for a short time in vacuo. 3. (Commercial.) On the large scale, chro- mic acid is prepared by either of the following formulae :— a. To a saturated solution of chromate of potash, 100 parts, add oil of vitriol (sp. gr. 1'845), 49 parts; and let the whole cool. This is the common process. The product contains sulphate of potassa, but this does not much interfere with its value as a bleaching agent. b. (Ure.) To a boiling saturated solution of bichromate of potash, add as much oil of vitriol as will convert the potash into a bisulphate. Let the whole cool, and be then washed with a little water, and stirred, when the liquid decanted from the granular mass will be nearly pure chromic acid. It still retains some po- tassa. c. From chromate of baryta and dilute sul- phuric acid, in equivalent proportions; after a few hours the clear liquid is decanted. d. (Reuben Phillips.) From chromate of baryta decomposed by concentrated nitric acid. The chromic acid is separated from the nitrate of baryta by decantation, or which is stiU better, by filtration through glass or asbestos. It is then evaporated to dryness, when the nitric acid is volatilized, and pure chromic acid left behind. The volatilized nitric acid may be condensed, and again used for the same pur- pose. The only precautions necessary to ensure the purity of the chromic acid prepared by this plan are—to use a sufficient quantity of nitric acid, and to take care that the nitric acid is sufficiently concentrated and pure. Chemically pure chromic acid, as well as the crude commercial acid, may be prepared by this method. Obs. The chromate of baryta may be easily prepared by mixing together solutions of the chloride of barium, and any of the soluble chromates; before it is used for the prepara-