1101 PLETHORA. Prop., ^'c. A black powder, soluble in cess of alkali, and freely so in the acids, rming brown solutions of the pkotosalts of aiinum. These are distinguished from solu- bns of the salts of the binoxide by not being •ecipitated by sal ammoniac. Oxalate oe I IE PKOTOXIDE OF PLATINUM, ill fine COppCl’- jiloured needles, may be obtained by heating ke binoxide in a solution of oxalic acid, : 2. Binox'ide of Platinum. Syn. Platinic iiDE, Pekoxide of platinum; Platini |;noxydum, L. Prep. 1. By exactly decom- jiijing the sulphate of the binoxide with nitrate ^baryta, and adding pure soda to the filtered klution, so as to precipitate only half the tide. (Berzelius.) 2. By boiling bichloride fplatinuyn with caustic soda, in considerable |ccess, and then adding acetic acid. I Prop., 8fc. In the hydrated form it is a Lilky brownish powder; this, when gently eated, becomes black and anhydrous. It )rms salts with the acids, and combines with )me of the bases. The salts have a red or ellow colour, and a remarkable tendency to )rm double salts with the salts of the alkalies nd earths. Obs. Both the oxides of platinum are re- uced to the metallic state on ignition. Potas'sio-chlo"ride of Platinum. Syn. Pla- iNO-BicnLORiDE OF POTASSIUM. A bright ellow, crystalline precipitate, formed when- ver solutions of the chlorides of platinum |nd of potassium are mixed; or a salt of po- jflssa, acidulated with a little hydrochloric ]^cid, is added to bichloride of platinum. In [ppearance, solubility, &c., it closely resembles l.MMONIO-CHLORIDE OF PLATINUM. ! Pow'der of Platinum. Syn, Platinum- iLACK, OXYPHOKUS, Platina-mohe. This is j)latinum in a finely divided state. I Prep. 1. A solution of bichloride of platinum, t o which an excess of carbonate of soda and a quantity of sugar have been added, is boiled jmtil the precipitate which forms after a little ime becomes perfectly black, and the super- jiatant liquid colourless; the black powder is hen collected on a filter, washed, and dried )y gentle heat. 2. (Boetger.) Ammonio-chloride ov potassio- Chloride of platinum, reduced to very fine pow- ler, is moistened with strong sulphuric acid, ind a small piece of zinc is thrust into the mixture; after the whole is reduced to a black powder, it is washed, first with hydro- vhloric acid, and then with pure water, and is, 'lastly, dried. 3. (Descotils.) Platinum ore, or crude platinum, is melted with twice its weight of zinc, and after powdering the resulting alloy, it is digested, first in dilute sulphuric acid, and next in dilute nitric acid, to remove the zinc, the action of the menstruum being assisted by heat; it is then digested in a weak solution of potassa, and, lastly, in pure water, after which it is carefully dried. Prop., ^c. Platinum-black possesses the property of condensing gases, more especially oxygen, into its pores, and afterwards giving it out to various oxidizable substances. When placed in contact with a solution of foemic ACID, it converts it, with copious effervescence, into CAEBONIC ACID; ALCOHOL, dropped upon it, becomes changed by oxidation into acetic ACID, the rise of temperature being often sufficient to cause inflammation; exposed to a red heat, it shrinks in volume, assumes the appearance of common spongy platinum, and, for the most part, loses these peculiarities. That prepared with zinc explodes, when heated, like gunpowder. “ When ‘ platina- mohr,^ prepared by means of zinc, is moistened with alcohol, it becomes incandescent, and emits osMic ACID; but if it be mixed with alcohol into a paste, and spread upon a watch- glass, nothing but acetic acid will be disen- gaged, affording an elegant means of diffusing the odour of vinegar in an apartment.^' (Ber- zelius.) See Acetic Acid. So'dio-chlcride of Platinum. Syn. Chloeide OF PLATINUM AND SODIUM, PLATINO-BICHLO- EIDE OF SODIUM; PlATINI ET SODII CHLO- EiDUM, Platini sodio-chloeidum, &c., L. Prep. (Redwood.) Bichloride of platinum, 17 parts; chloride of sodium, 6 parts; dissolve the two salts separately in water, q. s., mix the solutions, and evaporate, that crystals may form. The crystals are large, transparent, and of a yellow-red colour. Bose, to i gr.; in the same cases as the bichloride. (See above.) Spon'gy Platinum. Prep. 1. By heating ammonio-chloride of platinum to redness. 2. Crude bichloride of platinum and hydro- chlorate of ammonia are separately dissolved in proof spirit, and the one solution added to the other as long as a precipitate forms; this is collected, and, whilst still moist, formed into little balls or pieces, which are then dried, and gradually heated to redness. Prop., 8fc. These have been noticed above. (See page 1100.) Small balls of spongy plati- num are used for the hydeogen instanta- neous-light LAMP (DoBEEEINEE’S LAMP) ; but they are apt to absorb moisture from the atmosphere, and then lose their power of in- flaming hydrogen, until they are re-dried and heated. Sul'phate of Platinum. Syn. Platini sul- phas, L. Prepared by acting on bisulphiu'et of platinum with strong nitric acid. Sul'phurets of Platinum. The proto-sul- phuret is prepared by heating the yellow am- moniacal chloride with ^ its weight of sulphur in a retort;—the bisulphuret, by dropping a solution of the bichloride into a solution of sul- phuret of potassium. Neither of them possess any practical importance. PLETH'ORA. A redundancy of blood in the system. “Plethora may arise from a highly entonic state of the arterial system, and a thick crasis of the blood, with a large quantity of colouring matter, and it is then