1152 PYROACETIC SPIRIT—PYROTARTARIC ACID. other substances; as, pyeogallic acid, pyeo- LIGNEOIJS A., &C. PYROACE'TIC SPIRIT. See Spieit (Pyro- acetic). PYROBEN'ZOLINE. See Benzoline. PYROGAL'LIC ACID. Syn. Acidem pyeo- GALLICEM, L. Prep. 1. From either ffallic or tannic acid, heated in a retort, by means of an oil hath, and steadily maintained at a tem- perature of about 420° Fahr. as long as crys- tals are formed in the neck of the retort, or in the receiver, both of which should be kept well cooled. Pure. If a much higher heat is employed, the product consists chiefly of me- GALLIC ACID. 2. From Aleppo galls, in very coarse pow- der, heated in a dish covered with thin filter- ing paper pasted to its edge, and connected vdth a well-cooled receiver. Dr. Ure says that the so-called Chinese galls furnish, by dry distillation, a “ very concentrated solution of pyrogallic acid, which, evaporated on the water bath, yields of brown crystalline pyrogallic acid nearly log of the weight of the galls.^^ 3. (Dr. Stenhouse.) By sublimation from the dry aqueous extract of nut-galls, in a Mohr’s apparatus, in the same way that benzoic acid is obtained from benzoin resin (see page 303), observing the precautions referred to in No. 1 {above). Nearly pure. The product is fuUy log of the weight of extract operated on. Prop. Light crystals, which, when perfectly pure, are quite white j freely soluble in water, but the solution cannot be evaporated without turning black and sufiFering decomposition; it strikes a rich blackish-blue colour with the protosalts of iron, and reduces those of the sesquioxide to the state of protoxide; when heated to 480° Fahr., it is converted into me- tagallic ACID and water. Uses, 6fc. Pure pyrogallic acid is now very extensively employed in photography. A solu- tion of the crude acid mixed with a little spirit is used to dye the hair, to which it imparts a fine brown colour, but has the disadvantage of also staining the skin when applied to it. PY'ROGEN ACIDS. Those generated by heat. PYRO'LA. See Wintee Geeen. PYROLIG'NEOUS ACID. Syn. Vinegae op wooDf, Spieit of w.f. Smoking LiQUOEf, j Essence op sMOKEf; Acidtjm pyeoligno- SEM, L. Impure acetic acid, obtained by the i destructive distillation of wood in close vessels, i It comes over along with tae, ceeasote, and other liquid and gaseous matters. In this I state it contains much empyreuraatic matter in solution; but by separation from the tar, saturation with slaked lime or chalk, defeca- tion, and evaporation, an impure acetate or ‘ pyeolignate’ of lime is obtained, which, after being gently heated, to destroy part of its empyreumatic matter, without injuring its acetic acid, is again dissolved and defecated, and then precipitated by a solution of sulphate of soda, when a solution of acetate op soda and a precipitate of selphate of lime j formed by double decomposition. The so tion is next evaporated to dryness, the i mass (‘ PYEOLIGNITE OF SODA’) dissolved water, and the new solution filtered and crystallized. The crystals of acetate of sot obtained by the last process, yield nearly pu ACETIC ACID by distillation along with « phuric acid. See Acetic Acid and Vineg* PYROLIG'NEOUS SPIRIT. See Spii (Pyroxilic). PYROM'ETER. An instrument to measi high degrees of heat. Wedgwood’s pyi METEE, the one best known, depends on 1 property which clay possesses of contract! when strongly heated. Peof. Daniell’s i EOMETEE consists, essentially, of a small i or bar of platinum, which acts in a precis opposite manner to the preceding, viz., its expansion. PYROPH'ORUS. Syn. Left-Zendee, G Any substance that inflames spontaneou when exposed to the air. Prep. 1. Neutral chromate of lead, 6 par sulphur, 1 part; triturate them with wai q. s. to form a paste, and make this i' pellets; dry these perfectly by a gentle he then heat them in a closed tube until the > phur is all driven oflF; lastly, transfer them a stoppered phial. 2. (Hombeeg’s pyeophoees.) From al and brown sugar, equal parts; stir the mixt in an iron ladle over the fire until dry, tl put it into an earthen or coated glass pb and keep it at a red heat so long as flam emitted; it must then be carefully stopped and cooled. 3. (Dr. Hare.) Lampblack, 3 parts; bu,- alum, 4 parts; carbonate of potash, 8 parts j the last. 4. (Gay Lussac.) From sulphate of pota, 9 parts; calcined lampblack, 5 parts; as No. 5. Alum, 3 parts; wheat flour, 1 part;» No. 2. 6. (Lead pyeophoees—Gobel.) Heat ■ irate of lead, red hot, in a glass tube, and 11 hermetically seal it. See Taeteate of L: > {page 828). Obs. WLen the above are properly • pared, a little of the powder rapidly beco J very hot, and inflames on exposure to the • The accession ’of the combustion is prom( i by moisture, as a damp atmosphere or e breath. With the exception of the first 1 sixth, “ they owe their combustibility to e presence of sulphuret of potassium.” (y Lussac.) PYROPHOSPHORIC ACID. See Bib 0 Phosphoeic Acid {page 1055). PYRO'SIS. Syn. Black watee, WiB BEASH, Watee qealm. An affection of 0 stomach, attended by a sensation of heat, d the eructation of a thin, sour liquid, ofte o considerable quantity, especially in the m i* ing. It is a variety of Heaetbeen (which )• PYROTARTARIC ACID. Obtained by i0