1337 WHITE LEAD—WHITES (SHAKE). seldom exhibited internally, and its external use over a large or ulcerated surface is not unaccompanied with danger. Dose. ^ to 2 gr. of the powder, made into a pill; in gout, mania, &c.; or 1 to 3 gr., carefully triturated with 12 or 15 gr. of liquorice powder, as an errhine, in amaurosis, &c. WHITE LEAD. See ^elow. WHITE PIG'MENTS. Syn. Pigmenta ALBA, L. The following list embraces the more important white pigments of commerce:— Alum White. Syn. Baijme’s white. Take of powdered Roman alum, 2 lb.; honeyy 1 lb.; I mix, dry, powderi calcine, in a shallow dish to I w^hiteness, cool, wash, and dry, A beautiful and permanent white, both in oil and water. Derbyshire White. From cawk or heavy 1 spavy by grinding and elutriation. ^, Flake White. The iiner(kinds of white lead are so called. , Min'eral White. Precipitated garbonate of lead. ; Newcastle White. White lead made with molasses vineggr. Nottingham White. .White leqd made with alegar. Permanent white is now commonly sold for it. Pearl White. Syn. Fard’s Spanish white. Trisnitrate of bismuth. Per'manent White. A.rtificial sulphate of baryta, prepared by precipitating chloride of barium with dilute sulphuric acid, or a solution of glauber salts. A good fast white, unchanged by sulphurous fumes. Used to mark jars and bottles for containing acids or alkalies, as it is affected by very few substances; also to adul- terate white lead. 1 Spanish White. Syn. Blanc d’Espagne, Blanc he Teoyes, Fr. The softest and purest white chalk, elutriated, made into balls, Und well dried. Used as a cheap white paint. White Lead. Syn. Fine white. Flake w.. Carbonate of lead. Ceruse, Magis- TERY OF LEAD; CeRUSSA, PlUMBI CAEBONAS (Ph. E. & D.), L. Made by suspending rolls of thin sheet lead over malt vinegary or pyro- ligneous acid, in close vessels, the evaporation from the acid being kept up by the vessels being placed in a heap of dung, or a steam bath. Obs. Commercial carbonate of lead, how- ever prepared, is not the pure carbonate of lead, but always contains a certain proportion of hydrate. It is generally largely adulterated with native sulphate of baryta {‘heavy spar’), and sometimes with chalk. The former may be detected by its insolubility in dilute nitric acid, and the latter by the nitric solution yielding a white precipitate with dilute sul- 'phuric acid, or a solution of oxalic acid or oxalate of ammonia, after having been treated with sulphuretted hydrogen, or a hydrosul- phuret, to throw down the lead. “ Pure car- bonate of lead does not lose weight at a tem- perature of 212° Fahr.; 68 gr. are entirely dissolved in 150 minims of acetic acid diluted with 1 fl. oz. of distilled water; and the solu- tion is not entirely precipitated by a solution of 60 gr. of phosphate of soda.” (Ph. E.) The solution in nitric acid should not yield a pre- cipitate when treated with a solution of sul- phate of soda.—Used as a superior white paint, and, in medicine, as an external astringent, refrigerant, and desiccant. The particles of carbonate of lead prepared by precipitation (see page 826), or by any of the quick pro- cesses, are in a somewhat crystalline and semi- translucent condition, and hence do not cover so well as that just noticed. The following are,some of the varieties of ‘ whi^e lead’ found in commerce:— 1. (Dutch white lead.)—a. (Finest.) From flake white, 1 cwt.; cawk, 3 cwt.— b. (Ordinary.) Flake white, 1 cwt.; cawk, 7 cwt. These form the best white lead of the shops. . ' 2. (English white lead.) Flake white lowered with chalk. Covers badly, and the colour is inferior to the preceding. 3. (French wnraE lead >- Blanc de PLOMB, Fr.) From dissolved in vinegar, and the lead thrown down by a current of carbonic acid gas from coke. Does not cover so well as flake white. , 4. ' (Grace’s TyniTE lead.) Made from sheet lead, with the refuse watev of the starch- makers, soured brewePs grains, &c. 5. (Hamburg white, Hamburg white LEAD.) From flake white, 1 cwt.; cawk, 2 cwt. Also sold for ies/ Dutch white lead. 6. (Venetian white, Venetian white LEAD; Ceeussa Veneta, L.) From flake white, or pure white lead and cawk, equal parts. (See below.) White Precipitate of Lead. Syn. Minia- ture painter’s white. Sulphate of lead. From an acetic or nitric solution of litharge, precipitated by adding dilute sulphuric acid, and the white powder washed and dried. The clear liquid- decanted from the precipitate is poured on fresh litharge, when a second solution takes place; and this may be re- peated for any number of times. Used in miniature painting, being a beautiful and du- rable white. Whi”ting. The same as prepared chalk, but prepared more carelessly, in horse-mills. Wilkinson’s White. From litharge ground with sea water until it ceases to whiten, and then washed and dried. Zinc White (Hubbuck’s). A hydrated oxide of zinc. It possesses the advantage of being innocuous in use, and not being blackened by sulphuretted hydrogen, like white lead. WHITE SWEL'LING. Syn. Hydrarthrus, L. A variety of indolent, malignant, scrofu- lous tumour, attacking the knee, ankle, wrist, and elbow, especially the first. WHITES. See Leucorrhcea. WHITES (Sharp). Prep. 1. From wheaten flour and powdered alum, equal parts, ground together.