113 ALMONDS. I the north of Africa; but also extensively cul- I tivated in southern Europe. The almond-tree is about the size of the peach-tree, which it I much resembles in appearance. It is incapa- ! ble of ripening its fruit in this country, and I is therefore only grown here for the sake of its I beautiful vernal flowers. There are several ' varieties, of which the most important are the I sweet and the bitter, so named from the flavour j of the seed or kernel. These, for the most I part, resemble each other in appearance. De i Candolle (Prodromus, ii, 530,) gives five varieties of this species:—A. ama"ea {hitter- j almond); A. DUL'cis (siveet-a.) ; A. feag-ilis I (fiaj'-; tender-s/ielled a.); a. maceocae'pa ! {large-fruited a., pista'chio a., sultana a.); ' A. PEESiCO'iDES (peach-a.). I Hist., Sfc. The almond-tree was known to I the most remote antiquity, and its fruit j {almonds) was esteemed a luxury in the earliest ' ages of the world, of which we have any record. “ Carry down the man a present; a little balm, and a little honey, spices, and myrrh, nuts and almonds.” {Gen. xliii. 11.) Among profane I writers, almonds are mentioned by Hippocrates, i Dioscorides, Pliny, and others. (See below.) j Per'sian Almond. The peach. I AL'MONDS (-mundz). Syn. Amtg'dal.e, [ L.; Amandes, Fr.Mandeln, Ger. The seed or kernels of the almond-tree. They are ! met with in commerce both in the shell I (AMYG'DALiE CUM putam'ine, -in-e, L.), and j shelled (amygdal.®, L.). In the retail shops, I most commonly in the latter form. Those ! rancid, broken, or worm-eaten, should be j rejected. Bitt'er Almonds. Syn. Amyg'daIj^ ama"e.e, L.; Amygdala amaea, Ph. E. Amandes Ameees, Fr.; Bitteee mandeln, Ger. A variety imported from Mogadore, chiefly cha- i racterised by possessing the bitter flavour, and I when rubbed with water, the odour of peach- I kernels. They are also smaller and thicker ! than the sweet almond. Uses, S(c. Bitter almonds are used to re- : lieve the flavour of sweet almonds, to clear muddy water, and to flavour confectionary, liqueurs, &c. By pressure, they yield their bland oil (oil of almonds; o'leum amyg'- DAL^, L.); the resulting cake (bittee-a. CAKE ; PLACEN'TA A. AMAE.E, L.) is distilled for the volatile oil (essential oil of a.; j o. A. A., L.), and is afterwards again pressed ; into cakes (a.-cake) and used to fatten pigs, j and for other purposes. Bitter almonds are I now seldom employed in medicine, although j it is said that they have cured ‘ intermittents ’ I when bark had failed (Bergius), and that their ' j emulsion has been found useful in pulmonary I and dyspeptic afiections, hooping-cough, and i asthma; and externally, as a lotion in acne. (Thomson.) In large quantities they are ' poisonous, and even in the smallest quantities ■' have been known to produce nettle-rash j {urticaria), and other unpleasant symptoms. 11 Tlie.y have long been in repute as an antidote to intoxication. The ancient bacchanals chewed them at their orgies, to lessen the effects of wine, and to enable them to take it in larger quantities with impunity. Blanched' Almonds (blaiicht'-). Syn. Amyg'- DALiE DECOETiCA'T.aE, L. Almonds from which the husk or seed-coat has been removed. This is effected by soaking them for a short time iu warm water, until the skin can be easily removed by pressure between the thumb and forefinger. They are then peeled, rinsed in cold water, drained, and dried. When intend- ed for the table, the last is effected by wiping them with a soft towel; but when they are intended to be powdered, or kept, they are dried by a very gentle heat in a stove, or in the sun. Burnt' Almonds. Syn. Roasted almonds ; Almond coffee. Used to colour and flavour liqueurs and confectionary; and formerly, as a substitute for coffee. Guia'na Almonds (gAe-aA'-na; g hard). Brazil-nuts. In'dian Almonds. The fruit of terminalia catappa (Linn.), They are oleaginous, and nutritious; and are used as a substitute for almonds. Ja'va Almonds (ja^'-). The nuts or kernels of canarium commune (Linn.). They are eaten, made into bread, and pressed for their oil. Sweet' Almonds. Syn. Almonds; Amyg'- DAL.E, L.; A. DUL'CES, Ph. D. ; AmYGDALA, A. JOEDAN'ICA, Ph. L.; A. dul'cis, Ph. E., & Ph. L. 1836; Amandes, Amandes douces, Fr.; SussE Mandeln, Ger. These are the well-known dessert or table fruit of the name, and are the kind always referred to when ‘ almonds ^ (simply) are spoken of or ordered. Comm. var.—1. Joe'dan almonds, which are the finest, and are imported from Malaga. Of these there are two kinds; the one, above an inch in length, flat, and with a clear brown cuticle, sweet, mucilaginous, and rather tough; the other, more plump, and pointed at one end, brittle, but equally sweet with the former.—2. Valen'tia a. (which come next in quality) are about |ths of an inch broad, not quite an inch long, round at one end, and obtusely pointed at the other, flat, of a dingy brown colour, with a dusty cuticle.—3. Bae'- BAEY and Ital'ian a., which resemble the latter, but are generally smaller and less flattened—4. A variety, of medium quality, imported in baskets from Spain. Uses, Sfc. Sweet almonds are nutritive, emollient, and demulcent; but frequently dis- agree with weak stomachs. The husk is apt to occasion indigestion and nausea. Owing to a peculiar idiosyncracy of some habits, dyspep- sia, diarrhoea, oedematous swelling of the face, and urticaria {nettle-rash), sometimes, though seldom, follow the use of unblanched almonds. Blanched almonds do not produce these incon- veniences, and therefore, should be preferred for the ‘table.’ In mec?«cme, almonds are em- ployed chiefly under the form of emulsion, con- 8