545 ELECTROTYPE. fully dried and slightly warmed. The re- sinous surface is excited by beating it ob- liquely with a folded pie;ce of warm flannel. When this has been done for about a minute, the warm, dry cover of the instrument is to be placed upon the resinous plate, and touched with the finger, tf the cover is then raised X few inches, and the knuckle approached, a •owerful spark of ‘positive electricity^ will ass; and if the cover .be again replaced, )uched, and raised, a second spark will pass, his may be repeated many times without ^ain exciting the resinous plate. ^ By receiving le sparks with the kiidh of a ‘ Leyden jar,^ charge strong enough ,to give a powerful lock, or explode a gaseous mixture, niay be apidly obtained. Other forms have been iven to the instrument, but the essential part -f every one is a plate of some resinous sub- stance. . ' ELECTROTYPE. Si/n. Electro-met'al- I iTJRGY, GALviN'o-PLAs'Tic. , The art of work- j ng in metals by the aid of electricity. Strictly I speaking, the term ‘ electrotype' is only appli- cable to one branch of ‘ electro-metallurgy’— I that which relates to.the production of copies of engraved plates, medals, coins, and other works—but it is now commonly employed in the sense indicated by our definition. According to this extended signification of the term, the : art of electrotype includes electro-plating I and ELECTRO-GILDING. j General Principles.—If a ‘current’ from a I VOLTAIC BATTERY be passed, by means of pla- ! tinum ‘ electrodes,’ through wafer to which a i little sulphuric acid has been added,^ ‘ electro- I lysis ’ takes place, hydrogen appearing at the j ‘ cathode,' and oxygen at the ‘ anode.’ If into I the acid liquid some crystals of sutphale of I copper be now thrown, ‘ electrolysis ’ will still j»go on, but only one of the elements of the I water, namely, oxygen, will be evolved; for the 1 hydrogen, on being released, will take the place I of the copper in the solution, and the copper I thus liberated will be deposited on the pla- I tinum plate or v^ife which constitutes the 1 ‘ negative electrode.’ This experiment may he i continued until all the copper is abstracted I from the solution. Let this experiment be repeated with a copper plate for the ‘ positive ! electrode,’ and it will be found that neither of ; the gases will be evolved. The hydrogen, as before, will take the place of the copper in the ' solution; the oxygen, instead of escaping at ' the ‘ anode,’ will combine with the copper of : the ‘ electrode,’ forming oxide of copper, which will unite with the sulphuric acid to form sul- phate of copper. The chemical forces called into action by the current are so beautifully ; balanced, that in the last experiment the I quantity of copper supplied by the ‘ positive ‘ electrode’ exactly equals the quantity with- drawn from the solution and deposited upon ^ The sulphuric acid is added in this aud all similar instances merely to increase the conducting power of the hquid. the ‘ negative electrode.'^ The whole art of electrotype consists in applying the metals thus released, from their solutions to artistic or useful purposes. To obtain compact and brilliant deposits, many precautions have to be observed. The solutions must be kept satu- rated, or nearly so; the mould to be copied, or object to be coated, must not be too small in proportion to the size of the zinc plate of the battery; in fine, the power employed must be carefully regulated according to the work to be done. In all arrangements the moulds or objects which receive the deposits act as ‘ ne- gative electrodes,’ and are consequently in connection with the ZINC of the battery or ‘ generating cell.' Electrotype Processes. Although ‘ reguline ’ deposits of many metals can be obtained through the agency of voltaic electricity, we shall only treat of those of copper, silver, gold, and platinum. When copper is deposited, the object is generally to produce a substantial copy of a medal, an engraved plate, or other work of art; but when solutions containing the precious metals are ‘electrolysed,’ the deposits are nearly always used for covering the. surface of inferior metals. We shall notice the operations connected with the de- position of eopperj and those relating to electro- plating under separate heads. I. Deposition op Copper :— The MOULDS or models intended to receive the deposited metal may be formed of various materials. For medals and similar small works, moulds of PUSIBLE METAL,3 white wax, STEARINE, STEARIC ACID, and GUTTA PERCHA, are commonly used. The first are formed by dropping or pressing the medals to be copied upon the melted metal, taking care that the former are quite cold, aud that the surface of the metal is bright or free from oxide. To make a mould in gutta percha, the material must be softened in warm water, and then pressed upon the medal by means of a strong screw press. With the other materials the manipulation is very easy. A ribbon of cardboard or thick paper is placed round the medal, so as to form a rim; the material, which has been melted in an’earthen vessel, is then poured on, and allowed to remain until quite cold and hard, • when it is cautiously removed. For large works, moulds of plaster op Paris are usually employed; these require to be satu- rated with wax or tallow, by standing them in a shallow vessel containing these substances in a melted state. For copying seals and small coins, impressions in ordinary sealing-wax may be used as electrotype moulds. Non- metallic moulds must be coated with some substance which has the property of con- ducting electricity, before they can be used as 2 For an explanation of the scientific terms made use of in tliis paragraph, sec ElecthjlxSIS and VouTAie Euectkicity. * See Fusible Alloys, 2 and 3. 35