ARSENIOUS ACID. 217 1 “ Chem. Gaz.,'* i. 6. colour if the slightest trace of arsenic be pre- Isent. In this way arsenic may be readily and unerringly distinguished from ‘antimony.’ See Zinc Test. ' 9. Jacquelain’s Test. The suspected liquid is placed in an apparatus to which a tube bent I at right angles is adapted, “and containing ! in its horizontal branch asbestos calcined with \sulphuric acid.'* This tube is surrounded, towards its middle, with leaf-copper, and is adapted to a ‘ Liebig’s tube with bulbs’ contain- I ing pure terchloride of gold. On heating the ! leaf-copper the arsenic is deposited in the m- I terior of the tube, a little beyond the heated part; and any arseniuretted hydrogen which escapes decomposition is retained in solution by the chloride of gold, under the form of ar- senious acid. The gold is then precipitated by I sulphurous acid, and the decanted liquor eva- I porated, and, with the deposited film before I noticed, tested in the usual way. Stated to be I more susceptible than Lassaigne’s test; but it ! is deficient in the admirable simplicity of the I latter. See Marsh’s Test. I 10. Herapath’s Method. See Gen. Commen- j tary (infra). : 11. Lassaigne's Test. (Adopted by the French 1 Academy.) This consists in passing the hy- , drogen generated in the ‘ suspected liquid,’ j through a solution of nitrate of silver. (See i engr.) When arsenic is present black flocculi I of metallic silver are deposited, and arsenious I acid remains in solution mixed with nitric acid I and some arsenide of silver. The ‘ filtered (a.) Bottle containing dilute sulphuric acid, zinc, and ' (6.) I'uniiel for supplying the bottle with acid. I \c, c.) Supports. (d.) Tube filled with asbestos. (e.) Bent tube to convey the liberated gas. (/.) Glass vessel containing a solution of nitrate of I silver. ) liquor,’ treated with ammonia, will now give a i characteristic yellow precipitate of arsenite of I silver ; or a little dilute hydrochloric acid may I be cautiously added to precipitate any remain- ! ing nitrate of silver, and the liquid, after fil- tration, tested for arsenic either in a Marsh’s ; apparatus, or with any of the liquid tests; or it may be evaporated to dryness, when its ar- j senious acid will be converted into arsenic acid i by the nitric acid present, and will then be found to give the usual brick-red precipitate of ‘ arseniate of silver’ with a solution of the ni- trate of that metal. Susc. n'ol. susc. 505,000 T5I5,o5o* MaeSH’S TeST. 12. Letheby's Test. See Zinc Test. 13. Lime Test. Lime-water occasions in a solution of arsenious acid a white precipitate of ‘ arsenite of lime,’ soluble in excess of the arsenical solution, as well as in most acids. Susc. 2,5o(? (Devergie). It is inapplicable when other acids, or oxalates, tartrates, citrates, or carbonates, or even much water is present. Now superseded by more characteristic and susceptible tests. 14. Marsh's Test. This test, the discovery of the late lamented Mr, Marsh, of Woolwich, consists in the production and subsequent de- composition of arseniuretted hydrogen. The principle of its action depends on the property possessed by nascent hydrogen, of taking the metal from a solution of arsenious acid. The process is as follows:—Some of the suspected liquid is mixed with dilute sulphuric acid until strongly acid, and is then poured upon some pure granulated zinc, or ‘ clippings ’ or other small pieces of zinc, previously placed in the ap- paratus ; hydrogen gas is immediately evolved, and, if arsenic be present, unites with it, form- ing ‘arseniuretted hydrogen’ gas, which es- (a, a.) Bent glass tube containing dilute sulphuric acid, zinc, and suspected liquid. (6.) Stopcock and jet. \c.) Plate of glass to receive the stain. \d.) Si^port. \e, e.) Bands to keep the tube upright, capes by the aperture b (see engr.), and may be recognised as follows:— a. It possesses a garlic-like odour. b. It burns with a bluish-white flame, and emits a whitish smoke. c. If a piece of window-glass, or a white porcelain plate or saucer, be held a short dis- tance above the flame, a fine pulverulent film of ‘ arsenious acid ’ is deposited on it. See {f), below. d. If the cold plate be held in the flame, so as to slightly impede the combustion of the gas, a blackish-brown deposit of metallic arsenic