105 i ALKALOID. terrific energy, and are the most violent i ])oisons with which we are acquainted. Perfectly pure aconitina is about 200 times I more poisonous than arsenic, and at least 50 I times more poisonous than ordinary medicinal I prussic acid. The greater number act on ani- i mals in the same way as the plants which pro- duce them, provided they are given in pro- I portionately small doses. Many of them, when ! judiciously administered, are most valuable I medicines. Pois., Ant,f 4'^' ^ome of the alkaloids act as narcotic or stupefying poisons ; others, are I classed with the narcotico-acrid poisons, or ! those which produce both narcotism and [ irritation of the parts they touch. The | general symptoms produced by opium and its , ' preparations may be taken as an example of i i the former; those from aconite strychnia, ^ of the latter. In large doses of the greater number, narcotism pi’edominates; in smaller I ones, irritation; they are rarely co-existent.— j Treatm. No common antidote to the efiects of I this class of substances has yet been discovered. The only safe treatment, of at all general I application, is to immediately clear the stomach ; by means of a strong and quick-acting emetic ! (as sulphate of zinc), or the stomach-pump, I and to administer copious and continued ; draughts of astringent vegetable solutions (as of tannin, nut-galls, oak-bark, or what is always at hand—very strong tea or coffee). These may j be followed by or combined with a smart purge ^ of castor-oil, as soon as the stomach is! thoroughly cleared of the poison. M. Bou- j I chardat strongly recommends a solution of | ; iodine, 3 gr., and iodide of potassium, 6 gr., in ! I pure water, 16 fl. oz., in cases of poisoning by j i OPIUM, ACONITE, COLCHICUM, DEADLY NIGHT- ' SHADE, HEMLOCK, NUX VOMICA, &C., Or by the * alkaloids ^ obtained from them—aconi- ; TINE, ATROPIA, COLCHICINE, CONIA, MORPHIA, ' STRYCHNIA, &c., or their salts; but not where ‘ foxglove ’ or ‘ digitaline ’ has been taken. I The stoijiach having been well-emptied by an j emetic, the solution is to be given by wine- j I glassfuls for some time; the vomiting being I still encouraged during the early part of the : administration of the antidote. In the case [ I of * narcotics ’ (as opium, morphia, &c.), this j is to be followed by the free use of a strong , ; infusion of coffee. According to Dr. Garrod, ' purified animal-charcoal is an ‘ excellent anti- dote * to many of the alkaloids, including i those above enumerated, when taken in poison- I ous doses; as it not merely absorbs them, I but, for the most part, renders them inert. ! To be servi(;eable it should be recently pre- pared and fresh-burnt; and should be given ' in doses of about an ounce at a time, diffused ! in warm or tepid water, and frequently re- I peated. Tbe vomiting which follows its use, I owing to the warm water, proves advanta- ' geous; but after a sufficient time, may be lessened by employing less water, or cooler or even cold water. Drowsiness, if present, may I be combated by the subsequent use of strong j coffee or tea, as before. "We have seen I this plan succeed in several cases.—Lesions. j These, like the symptoms, vary. In some I cases there are redness and inflammation of I the stomach and intestines, and turgescence of the vessels of the lungs and brain ; in others, these appearances are either slight or wholly wanting. Wherever there has been much cerebral disturbance, traces of congestion are usually discernible. Detec., tests, 8fc. The identification of the pure alkaloids is extremely simple; but their detection when combined with organic and colouring matters, is a task of considerable difficulty. One or other of the following plans may be adopted for this purpose:— 1. (Merck.) The matter under examination is digested, for several hours, with concentrated acetic acid, added in sufficient quantity to pro- duce a strongly acid reaction; the fiuid portion is then strained from the insoluble matter, and j the latter being washed with water acidulated with acetic acid, the mixed liquors are gently evaporated to dryness in a water-bath; the residuum of the evaporation is boiled first with rectified spirit, and next with rectified spirit acidulated with acetic acid; the mixed liquors are again evaporated, the residuum redissolved or diluted with distilled water, and carbonate of soda or potassa added to feebly alkaline reaction, and the whole, after evapo- ration to the consistence of a syrup, set aside to repose for 24 hours; it is now again diluted with water, filtered, and the insoluble portion washed with cold distilled water, and digested with concentrated acetic acid ; this last solution is diluted with distilled water, and decoloured with pure blood-charcoal (if it be necessary) ; the fluid, either at once, or after cautious eva- poration, may then be tested for the alkaloids, in the usual manner. The charcoal previously used should also be tested in the way described below. This method answers admirably with all the NON-VOLATILE ALKALOIDS, and may be applied to the stomach and viscera, and their contents, and to food, &c., in cases of poi- soning. 2. (Stas.) The suspected matter, in a flnely divided state, is digested, at 160° to 165° Fahr., with twice or thrice its weight of strong al- cohol acidulated (according to the quantity) with dr. to 2 or 3 dr., or more, of pure oxalic or tartaric acid. After a sufficient time, and when the whole has become quite cold, it is thrown on a filter, and the undissolved portion, after being squeezed dry, is washed with strong alcohol. The mixed and filtered alcoholic liquids are then evaporated at a temperature not exceeding 95° Fahr., and, if no insoluble matter separates, the evaporation is continued nearly to dryness but if fatty or other in- I The evapor:»tioii, according to Stas, sliould be con- ducted under a bell-glass over sulphuric ac'ul, with or with- out rarefaction of the air; or in a tuhnJar retort through which a current of air is made to pass. i