CIDER SPIRIT—CIGARS. 450 cider, would be rejected even by the farmers’ servants in that county. Eai'sin Cider. This is made in a similar way to raisin wine, but without employing sugar, and with only 2 lb. of raisins to the gall., or even more, of water. It is usually fit for bottling in 10 days, and in a week longer is ready for use. Ci'derkin. Syn. Cider moil. See above. CIDER SPIRIT. See Brandt. CIGAR'. Syn. Segar'; Cigarre, Fr.; CiGARRO, Span. A small roll of tobacco-leaf used for smoking. The leaf is stalked or stripped of its midrib, and damped, before it passes into the hands of the cigar-roller. The envelope or skin is cut from a smooth, un- broken leaf, and is quickly rolled round suffi- cient tobacco to form the inside. To secure the loose end of the envelope a small quantity of paste, coloured brown with chicory, is generally used. Only those who have had great practice can make cigars of a good shape. A full account of the manufacture of cigars does not come within the scope of this work. Although cigars of British make cannot compete in point of flavour with those manufactured in tobacco-growing countries, they have obtained a high degree of favour from the excellent manner in which they are made, and from their comparative cheapness. For information respecting the adulteration of cigars, and the influence of their use upon health, see Tobacco. CIGARS'. (In pharmacy?) Syn. MedT- CATED CIGARS, M. CIGARETTES'. The admi- nistration of medicinal agents in the form of cigars, is of recent introduction, and as yet, in only very limited use. The medicinal sub- stance, if of a suitable description, as the leaves of plants, is made up into small rolls, like cheroots, and then smoked in the usual manner. In some cases, common cigars, or paper cigars {cigarettes), are medicated by moistening them in a preparation of the article to be administered. When the nar- cotic property of the tobacco would prove injurious, it is first exhausted by soaking and washing it in water. Aromat'ic Cigars. Syn. Aromatic cigar- ettes ; CiGARETT'iE AROMAT'IC^, L. ; CIGAR- ETTES AROMATIQDES, Fr. Aromatic spices, lavender flowers, &c., made into cigarettes. Smoked for their odour; and in tooth-ache, face-ache, &c. See Scented Cigars {below). Arsen'ical Cigars. Syn. Cigarr'^ ar- senica'les, L. Prep. Dissolve arseniate of soda, 1 part, in water, 30 parts; dip white, unsized paper into the solution, and form it into small rolls, 3 or 4 inches long. Used in pul- monary consumption; 4 or 5 whiffs as many times a day. Balsam'ic Cigars. Syn. Balsamic cigar- ettes; CiGARR'iE BALSAM'iCiE, CiGARETT'JJ B., L. Thick, unsized paper is soaked in a solution of saltpetre, and dried; after which it is brushed over flrst with tincture of cascarilla. and when again nearly dry, with compound , ( tincture of benzoin ; in about half an hour, it \ is cut into pieces (1^ X 4 inches), and rolled i into cigarettes. Used in hoarseness, loss of , voice, asthma, &c. Belladonn'a Cigars. Syn. Belladonna ci- i GARETTES; CiGARETT'jE BELLADONN'^, L. Prep. 1. Belladonna leaves made into cigar- ettes of 1 dr. each. 2. (Compound—C. B. compos'itum.) From , belladonna leaves, 4 parts; moistened with tincture of opium (Ph. L.), 1 part; dried, and made into 1 dr. cigarettes, as before. Used as an anodyne and antispasmodic, in troublesome coughs, hooping cough, tooth- ache, sore throat, tic douloureux, &c. Cam'phor Cigars. Syn. Camphor cigar- ettes ; Cigarett'jE campho'r^, L. ; Cigar- ettes de camphre, Fr. Prep. 1. Bibulous paper, moistened with 2 or 3 drops of essence of camphor, and rolled into cigarettes. For use, they are loosely placed in a tubular cigar- holder. 2. (Raspail.) These are made by loosely filling a quill or large straw with small frag- ments of camphor, closing the open end with a little cotton wool or bibulous paper, and piercing the closed end with a pin, to allow the passage of air. Obs. Both the above are used unlighted, by drawing the air through them into the mouth, which then becomes very slightly charged with the vapour of camphor. In cold weather, the vaporization is promoted by holding the cigarette for a few minutes in the warm hand. The homoeopathists regard them as prophylactic of cholera, and the common people hold them to possess the same virtue in reference to contagious diseases generally, but especially typhus and scarlet fever. They ^ should not be employed oftener than 3 or 4 times a day. Hen'bane Cigars. Syn. Cigarr'^ hyos- ct'ami, L. From henbane leaves, as directed ! under Belladonna Cigars. Mercu"rial Cigars. Syn. Cigarr'^ meh- chria'les, L. Prep. (Paul Bernard.) Ordi- nary cigars are deprived of their narcotic properties by soaking them in water, and are then wetted with a weak solution of corrosive \ sublimate, to which a little opium is generally added. The proportions may be, of corrosive sublimate, 1 gr.; rectifled spirit, 20 drops; dissolve; add laudanum, 15 drops; with this solution, 6 cigars are to be equally moistened to within about 1| inch of the mouth end, and then set aside to dry. Used by persons afflicted with syphilitic affections of the throat and palate, as a con- venient method of mercurial fumigation. For those accustomed to the use of tobacco, mild cigars, undeprived of their nicotine, may be employed for the purpose. Scent'ed Cigars. Syn. Peeeij"med cigars; Cigaer'^ aromat'ic.®, L. Prep. 1. By moistening ordinary cigars with a strong