CHALYBEATES. 420 COLOURED CHALKS which are -used as pigments and for crayons, generally contain both clay and magnesia, as well as oxide of iron, and are minerals quite distinct from white chalk, or CHALK, properly so called. The latter is an AMORPHOUS CARBONATE OE LIME. Ex- posed for some time to a red heat, it is con- verted into QUICKLIME; ground in mills and elutriated, it forms whiting ; the same pro- cess performed more carefully and on a smaller scale produces the prepared chalk used in medicine. When prepared artificially (by pre- cipitation), it is the PRECIPITATED CHALK of modern pharmacy. (See below.) Black Chalk. A variety of drawing slate. Brown Chalk. A familiar name for umber. Cam'phorated Chalk. Syn. Cretaceous TOOTH POWDER, Cam'pHORATED T. P.J Cre'tA cam'phorata, C. cum campho'ra, L. Prep. 1. Camphor, 1 oz.; add a few drops of spirit of wine, reduce it to a very fine powder, and mix it (perfectly) with precipitated chalk, 7 oz. ; lastly, pass it through a clean, fine sieve, and keep it in a corked bottle. These proportions make the strongest “camphorated tooth POWDER of the shops. 2. Camphor, 1 oz.; precipitated chalk, 15 oz.; as before. These are the best and safest proportions, and those now generally adopted by the West-end perfumers. 3. As either of the above, but using pre- pared chalk in lieu of precipitated chalk. Less white and velvety, but cleans the teeth better than the softer article. Use, &fc. Camphorated chalk is much es- teemed as a dentifrice; especially by smokers, and those troubled with foul teeth, or offensive breath. It may be scented with a few drops (3 or 4 to each oz.) of otto of roses, oil of cloves, or neroli, or of the essences of ambergris, musk, or vanilla; but care must be taken not to overdo it. When the teeth are much furred or discoloured, it may be mixed with about one seventh of its weight of finely powdered pumice stone (sifted through lawn), which will render it more effective. A little carmine, rouge, light red (burnt ochre), red coral, or rose pink, is also sometimes added to give it a tinge approaching that of the gums. The quantity of camphor (1 to 3 or 4) commonly ordered in certain books is absurdly large, and would render the compound not only unpleasant in use, but actually detrimental to the teeth. See Dentifrices. French Chalk. Soap stone or steatite, a soft magnesian mineral, possessing the pro- perty of writing on glass. It is used by tailors for marking cloth. Its powder (ob- tained by scraping) is very soft, velvety, and absorbent of grease. It forms the boot powder of the boot- and shoe-makers. Precipitated Chalk. Syn. Precipitated CAR'BONATE of lime ; Cre'TA PRiECIPITA'TA, Cal'cis carb'onas pr.ecipita'tum, L. Prep. 1. By adding to a solution of chloride of cal- cium, any quantity, another of carbonate of soda (both cold), and well washing the pre- cipitate with pure water, and drying it out of the dust. 2. (Ph. D.) Solution of chloride of calcium (Ph. D.), 5 parts; carbonate of soda, 3 parts; (dissolved in) water, 4 parts. Uses, Sfc. It is chiefly employed for making aromatic confection, cretaceous powder, and chalk mixture. That of the shops is seldom pure, the refuse of the soda-water makers {sulphate of lime) being commonly sold for it. When pure, it is wholly soluble, with eflfer- veseence, in dilute hydrochloric acid. (See ! below.) Prepa"red Chalk. Syn. Cre'ta (Ph. E. & Ph. L. 1836), Cre'ta pr.epara'ta (Ph. L. 1851), Cre'ta al'ba (Ph D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Rub chalk, 1 lb., with sufficient water, add gradually, until reduced to a smooth cream; then stir this into a large quantity of water, and, after a short interval, to allow the coarser particles to subside, pour off the super- natant water {still turbid) into another vessel, i and allow the suspended powder to settle; ! lastly, collect the chalk so prepared and dry it. In the same way shells are prepared, after being first freed from impurities and washed with boiling water. 2. (Commercial; Whi'ting.) On the large scale, the chalk is ground in mills, and the elutriation and deposit made in large reser- voirs. It is now seldom prepared by the druggist. Pur. “ It is almost entirely soluble in dilute hydrochloric acid, emitting small bubbles of carbonic acid gas. Hydrosulphuric acid does not disturb this solution; neither, when it has been heated, does ammonia or solution of lime ; added in excess.” (Ph. L.) Uses, Sfc. In medicine, as an absorbent, * antacid, and desiccant; in acidity, heartburn, dyspepsia, and other like stomach affections,. and in diarrhoea, depending on acidity or ^ irritation; in the latter, generally combined'. [ with aromatics, astringents, or opium. It forms a valuable dusting powder in exco-|t ' riations, ulcers, &c., especially in those of J i children. Dose. 10 gr. to a spoonful, in aJ | little water or milk, or made into a mixture^ j with mucilage or syrup. j Bed Chalk. A natural clay containing^ | about 18g of protoxide and carbonate ofi i iron. CHALYB'EATES. Syn. Chaltbea'ta, Fer- rugin'ea, L. The medicinal qualities of the preparations of iron are noticed under the name of that metal. Those most frequently employed in medicine are—iron filings; Quevenne’s iron ; the black oxide, mag- netic oxide, and sesquioxide of iron; | the AMMONio-chloride and sesquichloride; the CARBONATE and saccharine carbonate ; ! the CITRATE and ammonio-citrate ; the ; IODIDE, LACTATE, and SULPHATE; the TAR- TRATE, AMMONIO-TARTRATE, and POTASSIO- ' TARTRATE OF IRON; and the CHALYBEATE