309 BENZULE—BERYL. and consequently in not being poisonous. It has hence been proposed as a substitute for the * crude oil ^ as a flavouring ingredient in cookery, confectionery, liqueurs, &c.; but is Unfitted for the purpose owing to the rapid deterioration it suffers unless it be kept abso- I lately excluded from the air. See Benzoyle I {ante), Oils (Volatile), &c. j Formiate of Hydride of Benzoyle. See For- MOBENzoic Acid. I'odide of Benzoyle. A colourless, crystalline, fusible mass, obtained by distilling a mixture ' of iodide of potassium and chloride of benzoyle. Like the chloride, it is decomposed by water and the alkalies. Phos'phuret of Benzoyle. Syn. Phos'phide I OE benzoyle. Prep. As the ‘ sulphuret,^ but using phosphuret of lead. Sul'phuret of Benzoyle. Syn. Sul'phide of benzoyle. a yellow oil having a very offen- sive smell, obtained, by distillation, from a I mixture of sulphuret of lead and chloride of \ benzoyle. At a low temperature it solidifies to a soft, crystalline mass. BEN'ZULE*, Ben'zyle (-zil). See Benzoyle. BER'BERINE (-in).i [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Bae'berine*, Ber'beeite* (of Thomson); Beebeei'na, L. a substance discovered by Buchner and Herberger in the root of the com- mon ‘ barberry shrub ’ {ber'beris vulgdr'is, ;i Linn.); and subsequently, by Bodecker, in 'j *calumba-root’; and more recently, by Mr. 1 Perrins, in the ^ calumba-wood ’ {menispermum :j fenestratum) of Ceylon, which contains a con- I siderable quantity of it. I Prep. 1. A soft watery extract of the root, I or of the wood, is digested in rectified spirit, ' with trituration, as long as anything is taken i up ; the resulting ^ tincture,’ after repose, is jj filtered, and the ‘alcohol’ gradually distilled Iflt.off until the ‘ residuum ’ has the consistence I'jS.of a thin syrup. The ‘crystals’ which form I S as the liquid cools are drained in a funnel, [I I washed with a few drops of ice-cold water, h pressed dry in bibulous paper, and then purified II j. by solution and crystallisation, first in rectified i | . spirit, and next in distilled water. 2. By digesting the root, or the ivood, 11 (coarsely powdered,) in rectified spirit, and then J; proceeding as before. Prop. Berberine may be classed with the azoiised colouring substances; or, from its ' composition and its possessing feeble basic : properties, with the alkaloids. It crystallises I in fine needles, or in stellated prisms, which are yellow, odourless, very bitter-tasted, neutral ' to test-paper, and contain 12 equiv. of water. At 212° Fahr. it acquires a red colour; but re- ; covers its normal yellow on cooling. A much I higher temperature decomposes it, yellow va- pours being evolved. It is freely soluble in boiling water, and in alcohol, from either of which solutions it may be readily obtained in crystals. It requires 500 parts of water at ^ This substance must not be confounded with bee- i eehine or BiBiRiNE (whicli see). 1 60° to dissolve it, and very much more at lower temperatures. Its solutions are yellow ; that in alcohol appears green by reflected light. The concentrated mineral acids destroy it. Its salts are more or less soluble. Uses, 8fc. Chiefly in medicine, in similar cases to those in which the use of calumba- root is indicated. It has been highly recom- mended in dyspepsia and heartburn, in dis- turbed action of the liver, and, combined wfith iron {lactate, phosphate, or hypophosphite), in chlorosis, anaemia, &c. According to M. Altin, it is an effectual remedy for the mucal, co- lourless diarrhoea, and the derangement of the urinary secretion, which commonly follow cholera.—Dose. 3 to 10 gr.; in larger doses it proves laxative. See Calumba, &c. BER&'AMOT. Syn. Ber&amo'ta, L. ; Bergamote, Fr.; Beegamotte, Fr., Ger. The bergamotdemon, or fruit of cit'rus ber- ga'mia; also sometimes, colloquially, the fra- grant oil obtained from its rind. See Auran- TiACE^, Citrus, Oils (Volatile), Pears, &c. BER'RY (ber’-re). Syn. Bac'ca (pi., bac'cce, -se), L. ; Baie, Fr.; Beere, Ger. Any small succulent or pulpy fruit containing several naked seeds or granules. In botany, an inde- hiscent pericarp or seed-vessel, pulpy, many- celled,and many-seeded; the seeds being naked, and for a time connected by a slender mem- brane, from which they become detached at maturity, and then remain dispersed through the pulp. It is distinguished by its figure, &c., into several varieties. The leading berries employed in domestic economy and the arts are noticed in their al- phabetical places (which see). BERTHOLLIM'ETRE* (-tol-). [Fr.] A chlorimeter. BER'YL (ber'-ril). Syn. Aquamarine' (-rene'); A'qua-marTna, Beryl'lus, L. ; Aigue-marine, Beeil, Fr.; Beryll, &c., Ger.; Smaeagd, It. A beautiful mineral which, in its richer forms, is classed with the gems. It is usually of a green colour of various shades, passing into honey-yellow and sky-blue. It is allied in composition to the emerald; but occurs in much larger crystals than that gem, and owes its colour to oxide of iron, instead of ‘ oxide of chromium.’ According to Graelin its composition is—Silica, 68'7g; alumina, 17"6§; glucina, 13'4g; red oxide of iron, *24§. Other (previous) authorities state that it contains fully 14g of glucine, 2% of lime, and Ig of oxide of iron. The finest beryls come from Dauria on the frontiers of China, from Siberia, and from Brazil. Some “ of gigantic size have been found in the XT. S., at Ackworth and Gran- tham, New Hampshire, and at Roj^alston, Mass.” One of these measured 32 x 22 x 51 inches, and weighed 2900 lb.; another, 12 X 24 X 45 inches, and weighed 1076 lb. Apatite or ‘ Saxony beryl,’ chrysolite or ‘ pierre d’asperge,’ coloured fluor-spar, and even natural crystals of phosphate of lime, are