1223 SPASMS—SPECIES. ! SPASMS. S^n. Ceamp ; Spasmus, L. An ivoluntary contraction of the muscles, gene- jilly of the extremities, accompanied with pain, ‘tore or less severe. Spasms are distinguished ito CLONIC SPASMS or convulsions, in -which lie contractions and relaxations are alternate, \i in epilepsy; and into tonic spasms, in ihich there is continued rigidity, as in locked- w. That form which commonly attacks the I uscles of the legs and feet, especially after Ireat exertion or exposure to cold, is commonly idled cramp. The best treatment for this is Qmediately to stand upright, and to well rub lie part with the hand. The application of \rong stimulants, as spirits of ammonia, or of \iodynes, as opiate liniments, has been recom- ended. When spasm or cramp occurs in the omach, a teaspoonful of sal volatile in water, '• a table-spoonful of good brandy, may be vallowed immediately. When cramp comes 1 during cold bathing, the limb should be irown out as suddenly and violently as pos- jble, which will generally remove it, care nng also taken not to become flurried or ightened, as presence of mind is very essen- al to personal safety on such an occasion. A \mmon cause of spasm is indigestion, and le use of acescent liquors; these should, lerefore, be avoided, and bitters and ab- trbents had recourse to. See Antispasmo- ics, and the names oi the principal spasmodic iseases. I SPEAR'MINT. See Mint. i SPE'CIES. (In pharmacy^ Mixtures of [ried plants, or parts of plants, in a divided ate, which, for convenience, are kept mixed •r use. The dry ingredients of pills, con- :Tves, electuaries, mixtures, &c., that do not pep well when made up, or which are in 'ttle demand, may be economically and conve- niently preserved in this state. The word, lus applied, is obsolete out of the pharma- I’utical laboratory. j Anthelmin'tic Species. Syn. Species an- HELMINTICA2, L. The dried flowering tops of insy and wormwood, and the flowers of chamo- mile, equal parts; mix, and keep them in a l ose vessel. (P. Cod.) I Aperitive Species. See Diuretic Species nelow). ! Aromatic Species. Syn. Aetomatic pow- Ier; Species aromatics, L. Prep. (Ph, |!or.) Leaves of balm and curled-leaf mint Mentha crispa), of each, 4 oz.; lavender flow- 's, 2 oz.; cloves, 1 oz.; dry them by a gentle I eat, and then powder them. I Astrin'gent Species. Syn. Species astrin- jENTES, L. The roots of bistort and tor- \ientil, and bark of pomegranate, equal parts. P. Cod.) Bit'ter Species. Syn. Three bitter herbs; .PECIES AMARJ5, HeRB.® AMAR.E, L. The leaves of germander, and dried tops of lesser \mtaury and wormwood, equal parts. (P. ‘'od.) ! Capillary Species. Syn. Five capillary HERBS; Herb.® quinque capillares, L. Hart’s tongue, black maiden-hair, vhite do., golden do., and spleenwort, equal parts. (Ph. L. 1720.) Cor'dial Species. Syn. Four cordial elow- ERS; Species cordia l^s, L. The flowers of borage, bugloss, roses, and violets, equal parts. (Ph. L. 1720.) Diuretic Species. Syn. Aperient roots. Aperitive species ; Species diuretic.®, L. 1. (Five greater aperitive roots—P. Cod., & Ph. E. 1744.) The dried roots of asparagus, butcher’s broom, parsley, smallage, and sweet fennel, equal parts. 2. (Five lesser aperitive roots.) Those of caper, dog-grass, eryngo, madder, and rest- harrow. Emollient Species. Syn. Species emol- lientes, L. 1. (Three emollient meals; Faring emollientes.) The meal of barley, linseed, and rye, equal parts. (P. Cod.) 2. (Five emollient herbs ; HERBiE quin- que EMOLLIENTES.)—a. The dried leaves of groundsel, common mallow, marsh-mallow, great mullein, and wall pellitory, equal parts. (P. Cod.) b. The leaves of mallow, marsh-mallow, French mercury, pellitory of the wall, and violet. (Ph. E. 1744.) Species for Ene'mas. Syn. Herbs for CLYSTERS; HeRB.® PRO ENEMATE, L. Mallow leaves, 2 parts; chamomile flowers, 1 part. Species for Fomenta'tions. Syn. Species PRO FOTU, Herb^ pro fotu, L. Leaves of southernwood, tops of sea-wormwood, va\di flow- ers of chamomile, of each, 2 parts ; bay leaves, 1 part. Hot Species. 1. (Four greater hot seeds.) The seeds of anise, caraway, cumin, QMdi fennel. 2. (Four lesser hot seeds.) The seeds of bishop’s weed, smallage, stone parsley, and wild carrot. Lax'ative Species. Syn. St. Germain lax- ative powder ; Species laxantes St. Ger- main, L. Prep. (Ph. Bor.) Senna leaves (ex- hausted with spirit), 4 oz.; elder flowers, 2| oz.; aniseed and fennel seed, of each, 1^ oz.; reduce them to coarse powder, and, when dispensing, add of powdered cream of tartar, 1 dr., to each 1^ oz. of the mixture. Narcotic Species. Syn. Four narcotic herbs ; Species narcotics, L. Dried leaves of belladonna, black nightshade, henbane, and thorn-apple, equal parts. Pec'toral Species. Syn. Species bechic®. Species ad infusum pectorales, L. 1. Mal- low root, 4 oz.; coltsfoot leaves, 2 oz.; liquorice root, l|oz.; aniseed, great-mullein flowers, and red-poppy flowers, of each, 1 oz.; orris root, ^ oz. (Ph. Bor.) B,efri"gerant Species.—1. (Fourcold seeds.) Thesec<?s of cucumber, gourd, melon, andica^er- melon. 2. (Four lesser cold seeds.) The seeds of endive, lettuce, purslane, and succory.