POTASSA. 1113 f7. From nitre, 4< parts; charcoal, 1 part l)oth in powder); the mixture being defla- ■rated by throwing it, in small portions at a ime, into a red-hot crucible, which is then ept at a bright red heat for a few minutes; lie calcined mass is, lastly, dissolved in water, nd the solution filtered and evaporated, as icfore. The purihy of the product corresponds 0 that of the nitre employed in the process. ■ Prop. These are well known. It exhibits |nost of the properties of nYDEATE of potassa, ji)ut in a vastly less degree. It is very deli- quescent, effervesces with acids, exhibits a !narked alkaline reaction with test paper, is insoluble in alcohol, but dissolves in less than ts own weight of water, its affinity for the ist thing being so great that it takes it from ilcoholic mixtures. (See below.) Pur., Sfc. Carbonate of potassa frequently Contains an undue quantity of water, as well IS silicic acid, sulphates, and chlorides. The VATEE may be detected by the loss of weight he salt suffers when heated; the silica, by aiding to it hydrochloric acid in excess, evapo- ■ating to dryness, and igniting the residuum, )y wliich this contamination is rendered in- loluble; the sulphates and chloeides may )e detected by adding nitric acid in excess, ind testing the liquid with nitrate of silver md chloride of barium. If the former pro- luces a white precipitate, a chloride is present; md if the latter does the same, the contami- lation is a sulphate. Carbonate of potassa t‘ deliquesces in the air, and is almost entirely lissolved by water; in an open vessel it spon- aneously liquefies (forming the oil of tae- CAE; OLEUM TAETAEI, O. T. DELIQUIUM of the j')Id chemists). It changes the colour of tnr- lUeric brown. Supersaturated with nitric acid, neither carbonate of soda nor chloride of parium throws down anything, and nitrate of iilver very little. 100 gr. lose 16 gr. of water ,oy a strong red heat; and the same weight loses 26'3 gr. of carbonic acid when placed in contact with dilute sulphuric acid.’" (Ph. L.) ‘ Pure carbonate of potassa does not lose weight at a low red heat; and a solution isupersaturated with pure nitric acid is pre- cipitated either faintly or not at all by a solu- tion of nitrate of baryta or of nitrate of silver. 100 gr. of the commercial salt does not lose more than 20 gr. on exposure to a red heat.” (Ph. E.) Estim. See Alkalimetey. Ant. In excessive doses, carbonate of potassa acts as a corrosive poison. The antidotes are water soured with lemon juice or vinegar, or with citric or tartaric acid; followed by de- mulcents. See Poisons, &c. Uses, It possesses powerful alkaline and antiscorbutic properties, and is hence com- inonly exhibited as an antacid and alterative, in doses of 5 to 20 gr., in a similar manner to the bicarbonate. The carbonate of commerce is largely employed in the arts, in soap-making, dyeing, the manufacture of glass, «&:c, Concluding remarks. The high price of pearlash and potash has led, of late years, to the preparation of a carbonate of potash from the bisulphate of sulphate, by heating it in a reverberatory furnace with charcoal. A sul- phuret is formed, which, by continuing tlie roasting, is converted into carbonate of potash, which is then purified by solution, defecation, and evaporation. (See Caebonate of Soda.) The ‘ roTASSE d’Ameeique,’ and ‘ petit po- TASSE bleu’ of our Continental neighbours is said to be formed of caustic soda melted with satt and lime, and tinged with oxide of copper. This is sold to the Parisian laundresses for American potash, as they object to using soda. The potash of the shops in England is often mixed with a similar compound. The ‘ cen- DEES geavelees’ of Burgundy are incinerated wine-lees. The latter are peculiarly rich in potassa, and commonly yield about 16J| of it. 2. Bicar'bonate of Potassa. Sgn. Neuteal CAEBONATE of POTASHf, AeEATED KALlf, A. VEGETABLE ALKALlf; POTASS.E BICAEBONAS (Ph. L. E. & D.), POTASSiE CAEBONASf, L. This useful salt was first produced by Car- theuser, in 1752. The method which he adopted for this purpose is frequently em- ployed, even at the present day. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Carbonate of po- tassa, 6 lb.; distilled water, 1 gall.; dissolve, and pass carbonic acid gas (from chalk and oil of vitriol diluted with water) through the so- lution to saturation; apply a gentle heat, so that whatever crystals have been formed may be dissolved, and set aside the solution, that crystals may again form; lastly, the liquid being poured oft', dry them. In the last Ph. L. bicarbonate of potassa is placed in the Ma- teria Medica. 2. (Ph. D.) Carbonic acid, obtained by the action of dilute hydrochloric acid on chalk (the latter contained in a perforated bottle im- mersed in a vessel containing the acid), is passed, by means of glass tubes connected by vulcanized India rubber, to the bottom of a bottle containing a solution of carbonate of potassa, 1 part, in water, 2| parts; as soon as the air is expelled from the apparatus the corks through which the tubes pass are ren- dered air-tight, and the process left to itself for a week; tlie crystals thus obtained are then shaken with twice their bulk of cold water, drained, and dried on bibulous paper, by simple exposure to the air. From the mother-liquor, filtered, and concentrated to one half, at a heat not exceeding 110° Fahr., more crystals may be obtained. “ The tube im- mersed in the solution of carbonate of potassa will have to be occasionally cleared of the crystals with which it is liable to become choked, else the process will be suspended.” 3. (Apothecaries’ Hall, London.) Carbonate of potassa, 100 lb.; distilled loater, 17 gall.; dissolve, and saturate the solution with car- bonic acid gas, as in No. 1, when 35 to 40 lb. of crystals of bicarbonate of potassa may be ob-