I SULPHIDE—SULPHOVINIC ACID. 1249 I All insoluble sulphate may be tested by j ixing it with 3 times its weight of carbonate j 1 potash or soda (both in fine powder), ex-1 )sing the mixture in a platinum crucible to a d heat for | an hour, dissolving the mass in iter, filtering, neutralizing the free alkali llth acetic or hydrochloric acid, and then ap- lying the reagents as before. The sulphates of baryta, tin, antimony, bis- uth, lead, and mercury, are insoluble; those ‘ slrontia, lime, zirconia, yttria, and silver, ■\vy SPAEINGLY SOLUBLE ; the other sulphates e, for the most part, eeeely soluble in iter. The sulphates of the alkalies, earths, and mmon metals, when mixed with charcoal and i?ated to redness, suffer decomposition, a mU mret of the base being formed. I SULTHIDE. See Sulphueet. ISULPHINDYLIC ACID. Syn. Sulphin- |:gotic acid. An intensely blue pasty mass, rtned by dissolving 1 part of indigo in about ') parts of concentrated sulphuric acid. I Prop., ijc. It forms blue salts with the bases |hich are freely soluble in pure xvater, but lite insoluble in saline solutions. The purple i)wder left undissolved on diluting the acid I’oduct, when the acid used has been too jiall in quantity, or the digestion too brief, is luble in a large quantity of pure water. See JLPHATE OP Indigo {page 756). SUL'PHITE. A salt of sulphurous acid. SULPHOBEN'ZIDE. A crystalline substance jhich separates when a mixture of benzol and ''.hydrous sulphuric acid is largely diluted with iter. It is purified by washing it with water, ssolving it in ether, and crystallizing by spon- neous evaporation. It fuses at 212° Fahr., !id is volatile. SULPHOBENZO'IC ACID. A bibasic, crys- llizable acid, formed by the direct union of nzoic acid and anhydrous sulphuric acid ; the [scid mass is dissolved in water, the solution |turated with carbonate of baryta, and hy- ochloric acid added to the filtered liquid; 'LPHOBENZOATE OP BAEYTA Crystallizes out, jDm which the sulphobenzoic acid may be jitained by decomposing it with dilute sul- I'uric acid. i SULPHOCY'ANIDES. See below. I SULPHOCYAN'OGEN. A well-defined salt- dicle, containing sulphur united to the ele- ents of cyanogen. Its compounds are the I'LPHOCYANIDES, luost of which may be rined by directly saturating hydrosulpho- \'anic acid with the oxide or hydrate of the I’se ; or, from the sulphocyanide of potassium id a soluble salt of the base, by double de- I'mposition. (See page 748.) SULPHOGLYCER'IC ACID. A compound ('Utaining the elements of glycerin and sul- jiuric acid. It forms soluble salts (sulpho- LYCEEATES) wutli lime, baryta, and protoxide j lead. SULPHOMETHYL'IC ACID. A peculiar acid iibstance analogous to suLPnoYiNic acid. The baryta-salt is prepared in the same manner as the corresponding salt of sulphovinic acid, substituting wood-spirit for rectified spirit. (See below.) The salts are called sulpho- METHYLATES. SULPHONAPHTHALIC ACID. A crystal- lizable acid compound, formed along with another acid, by dissolving naphthalin in warm oil of vitriol, diluting the solution w'ith water, and saturating it with carbonate of baryta ; the resulting baryta salt (the most soluble of the two) crystallizes from a hot solution, and sulphonaphthalic acid is afterwards ob- tained from it by the addition of dilute sul- phuric acid. SULPHOPHE'NIC ACID. A syrupy liquid, formed by the union of sulphuric acid with hydrated oxide of phenyl (carbolic acid). SULPHOSACCHARIC ACID. Prep. Melted grape sugar is cautiously mixed with concen- trated sulphuric acid; iheproduct is dissolved in water, and neutralized with carbonate of baryta ; sulphate of baryta is formed, together with a soluble sulpho-saccharate of that earth, from which the acid itself may be afterwards eliminated. It is a sweetish liquid, forming a variety of soluble salts (sulphosacchaeates), and is very prone to decompose into sugar and sulphuric acid. SULPHOTULUOL'IC ACID. A fluid acid compound, resulting from the combination of tuluol with fuming sulphuric acid. SULPHOVINIC ACID. Syn. (Enothionic ACIDf, EtHEEEO-SULPHUEIO A.f; ACIDUM SULPHOVINICUM, L. Prep. Strong rectified spirit is mixed with twice its weight of con- centrated sulphuric acid ; the mixture is heated to its boiling-point, and then left to cool; when cold, it is diluted with a large quantity of water, and neutralized -with carbonate of baryta; (much sulphate of baryta is pro- duced ;) the mass is placed upon a cloth filter, drained, and pressed; the clear solution is eva- porated to a small bulk by the heat of a water bath, filtered from a little sulphate, and left to crystallize; the product is sulphovinate of BAEYTA, in very beautiful colourless, transpa- rent crystals. These crystals dissolve in about an equal weight of cold water, and the hy- drated acid may be procured by exactly preci- pitating the base by dilute sulphuric acid, and evaporating the filtered solution, in vacuo, at the temperature of the air. Obs. Chalk may be substituted for the car- bonate of baryta, but the acid cannot be so readily obtained from the resulting sulpho- vinate of lime. Prop., Sj’c. A sour syrupy liquid, very easily decomposed by heat, and even by long expo- sure in the vacuum of the air-pump. Com- bined with the bases, it forms salts called sul- PHOVINATES, which may be purified by re- solution, and recrystallization, .dll the sul- phovinates are soluble; the solutions are de- composed by ebullition; and most of them 1 crystallize well. Heated with hydi-ate of lime 79 I