GELATINE. 683 i aerated liquid. By the aid of the gazogene, I water, wine, ale, &c., may in a few minutes he I fully saturated with carbonic acid gas, and so rendered brisk and piquant. By using fruit syrups, manufactured from English and foreign fruits, the most delicious aerated summer BEVERAGES Can be made, resembling those so much esteemed by travellers in the South of Europe and the sea-board cities of the Western world. GEL'ATINE. Syn, Gelatin; Gelatine, Fr.; Gelatina, L. Animal jelly, obtained by the action of heat on the organic tissue of the hones, tendons, and ligaments, the cellular tissue, the skin, and the serous membranes, whilst in contact with water. Glue and size are coarse varieties of gelatine, prepared from hoofs, hides, skins, &c.; and isinglass is a purer kind, obtained from the air-bladders and some other membranes of fish. Prop., ^c. Gelatine is insoluble in cold water, but dissolves with greater or less readi- ness on the application of heat, according to the source whence it is obtained, and in this state forms a tremulous and transparent jelly on cooling; it is insoluble in both alcohol and ether, and is decomposed by the strong alka- lies and acids; with tannic acid it forms an insoluble compound of a buff colour, which is the basis of leather ; when acted on by cold concentrated sulphuric acid, it yields gltcocoll or gelatine sugar; and when boiled with strong alkalies, it yields GLYCOCOLL and leu- cine. Chlorine passed into a solution of gela- tine occasions a dense white precipitate (chlo- rite OF gelatine), which ultimately forms a tough, elastic, pearly mass, somewhat re- sembling fibrine. Tests. Its aqueous solution is recognised as follows:—1. It gelatinizes on cooling.—2. It is precipitated by alcohol.—3. Bichloride of mercury gives a whitish flocculent precipitate. —4. Tannic acid or infusion of galls gives a copious yellowish-white, curdy precipitate, which, on being stirred, coheres into an elastic mass, insoluble in water, and incapable of putrefaction, and which, when dried, assumes the appearance of over-tanned leather.—5. The ! gelatinizing property is destroyed by nitric acid.—6. It is not affected by either alum or acetate of lead. In this respect it differs from chondrine. Qual. The goodness of commercial gelatine intended for food is readily proved by pouring loiling water over it, and digesting the two together for a short time. If it is pure and wholesome, its colour remains unaltered, and during its solution it continues entirely free from smell. The resulting solution and jelly are also odourless, neutral to test paper, free I from unpleasant taste, and perfectly trans- parent. If it forms a yellow gluey-looking mass, and evolves an offensive odour, it should • be rejected as of inferior quality, and unfit for culinary purposes. ' Vacs, &^'c. Gelatine is largely employed as an article of food, as in soups, jellies, &c.; but its value in this respect has been, perhaps, over- rated. Animals fed exclusively on gelatine die of starvation. But when mixed with other food, especially with substances abounding in albumen, caseine, or fibrin, gelatine may be useful as an aliment, and serve directly to nourish the gelatinous tissues. (Liebig.) Hence gelatine is a fitting substance to form part (but only a part) of the diet of convalescents, as it conveys nutrition directly to these tissues, without tasking the diminished powers of life for its conversion; but its use should be accom- panied by a proper quantity of azotized animal food, to supply the elements to the blood, for the support and increase of the muscular tissue, or fleshy portion of the body. In France the gelatine of bones is extracted and employed as a part of the diet in hospitals with the best effect, materially abridging the period of con- valescence ; but when given alone, all animals soon become disgusted with it, and die if not supplied with other food. (D’Arcet.) See Glue, Isinglass, and below. Bone Gelatine.—Obtained from crushed bones by coction with water, or by the action of steam and water successively, either with or without pressure ; or by macei*ation in dilute hydro- chloric acid, to extract the phosphate of lime, the remaining gelatinous mass being well washed in cold water, and afterwards dissolved in boiling water in the usual manner. A little carbonate of soda is commonly added to the last water. Gelatine has even been extracted fromybs5^7 bones. A soup was prepared from one of the bones of the great mastodon, by the prefet of one of the departments of France.” (Pereira.) Butcher’s meat contains, on an average, 24g of dry flesh, 56g of water, and 20g of bone. The last will yield, by proper treat- ment, nearly l-3rd of its weight of dry gela- tine, or a quantity equal to about 6g of the meat from which it is cut. This, as well as other varieties of gelatine, is frequently BLANCHED by sulphurous acid or animal char- coal, and tinged of various colours with the ordinary vegetable dyes. Thus, blue is given with sulphate of indigo or t\\e juice of blue ber- ries ; GREEN, with the juice of spinach; and RED, with juice of red-beet. French Gelatine. Sy7i. Cake gelatine. Gelatine done up into small thin cakes, like the finer sorts of glue. A good deal of it is pre- pared in Paris from the cuttings of the skins used in making kid gloves and slippers. Patent Gelatine. Various qualities of gela- tine are manufactured from glue-pieces, or cut- tings of the hides of beasts and skins of calves, and from inferior isinglass. According to Mr. Nelson’s specification, the crude materials, freed from hair, wool, flesh, and fat, after being thoroughly washed and ‘ scored,’ are mace- rated for 10 days in a ley of caustic soda, and are then placed in covered vessels at a tem- perature varying from GO'’ to 70'^ Fahr., until they become tender; they are next washed to