1331 WATERPROOFING—WAX. WATERPROOFING. Cloth is ‘waterproofed’ as follows:— 1. Moisten the cloth, on the wrong side, first with a weak solution of isinglass, and, when dry, with an infusion of nut-galls. 2. As the last, but substitute a solution of soap for isinglass, and another of alum for galls. 3. (Hancock’s Patent.) By spreading the liquid juice of the caoutchouc tree upon the inner surface of the goods, and allowing them to dry in the air. Absolutely chimerical. 4. (Potter’s Patent.) The cloth is first imbued on the wrong side with a solution of isinglass, alum, and soap, by means of a brush; when dry, it is brushed on the same side against the grain, and then gone over with I a brush dipped in water. Impervious to water, but not to air. 5. (Sievier’s Patent.) By applying first a I solution of India rubber in oil of turpentine, j and afterwards another India rubber varnish, i rendered very drying by the use of driers. On ! this, wool or other material of which the fabric j is made, cut into proper lengths, is spread, and the whole passed through a press, whereby the I surface acquires a nap or pile. 6. A simple method of rendering cloth : waterproof, without being airproof, is to spread I it on any smooth surface, and to rub the 1 wrong side with a lump of bees' wax (perfectly i pure and free from grease), until it presents a 1 slight, but even, white or grayish appearance; a hot iron is then to be passed over it, and the 1 cloth being brushed whilst warm, the process is complete. When the operation has been skilfully performed, a candle may be blown out through the cloth, if coarse, and yet a piece of Hhe same, placed across an inverted hat, may have several glassfuls of water poured into the hollow formed by it, without any of the liquid passing through. Pressure or friction will alone make it do so. “We have shown this to numerous cloth-manufacturers, waterproofers, tailors, and others, several of whom have adopted the method very extensively, and with perfect success.” (Cooley.) ,1 WATERPROOF LIQUID. Prep. 1. India I rubber, in fragments, 1 oz. ; boiled oil, 1 pint; ■ dissolve by heat, carefully applied, then stir in [of hot boiled oil, 1 pint, and remove the vessel ^ from the fire. 2. Boiled oil, 1 pint; bees' wax and yellow resin, of each, 2 oz. ; melt them together. I 3. Salad oil, 1 pint; mutton suet, ^ lb.; i^white wax and spermaceti, of each, \oz.; as Nthe last. For ‘ladies’ work.’ L j Obs. The above are usediov boots, shoes, 1 harness, leather straps, leather trunks, &c., applied warm before the fire. 'I WAX. /S'yn. Bees’WAX, Yellow w.; Ceea -'(Ph. L.), Ceea flava (Ph. E. & D.), L. The 'isubstance which forms the cells of bees; ob- |tained by melting the comb in water, after the honey has been removed, straining the liquid ?!mass, remelting the defecated portion, and ^casting it into cakes. Pure bees’ wax has a pleasant ceraceous odour, a pale yellowish-brown colour, and the sp. gr. *960 to *965. It is brittle at 32°, softens and becomes plastic at 88 or 90°, and melts at 154 to 155° Fahr. “It becomes kiieadable at about 85°, and its behaviour while worked between finger and thumb is characteristic. A piece the size of a pea being worked in the hand till tough with the warmth, then placed upon the thumb, and forcibly stroked down with the forefinger, curls up, following the finger, and is marked by it with longitudinal streaks.” (B. S. Proctor.) It is very frequently adulterated with farina, resin, and mutton suet or stearin. Dr. Nor- mandy met with a sample containing 23g of efiloresced sulphate of soda. The first may be detected by oil of turpentine, which dissolves only the wax,—the second, by its solubility in cold alcohol, and by its terebinthinate taste,— the third and fourth, even when forming less than 2§ of the wax, may be detected by it afibrding sebacic acid on distillation. When greasy matter is present in any considerable quantity, it may also be detected by the sus- pected sample having an unctuous feel and a disagreeable taste. Saline matter may be de- tected by the loss of weight, when a weighed quantity of the wax is boiled in water. Heavy substances, as chalk, plaster of Paris, white lead, oxide of zinc, &c., may also be thus sepa- rated, since they subside, owing to their supe- rior gravity, to the bottom of the vessel. “The rough, mealy fracture of pure wax is rendered finer grained, smoother, and duller, by the addition of lard or spermaceti, and becomes sparkling and more granular by the addition of resin." (Proctor.) Bleached Wax. See White Wax {below). Etching Wax. See Etchinh Geound (^page 591) and Vaenish. Facti”tious Wax. Syn. Ceea flava fac- TiTiA, L. A spurious compound, sold by the farrier’s druggists for veterinary purposes. Prep. 1. From yellow resin, 16 lb.; hard mutton suet or stearin, 8 lb.; palm oil, 2^ lb.; melted together. 2. As last, but substituting turmeric, 1 lb., for the palm oil. 3. Best annotta, 6 oz. or q. s.; water, 1 gall.; boil; add, of hard mutton suet or stearin, 35 lb.; yellow resin, 70 lb. ; again boil, with constant agitation, until perfectly mixed and of a proper colour, and, as soon as it begins to thicken, pour it out into basins to cool. WTien cold, rub each cake over with a little potato starch. Gilder’s Wax. See page 960. Mod'eling Wax. Prep. Take of bees' wax, lead plaster, olive oil, and yellow resin, equal parts; whiting, q. s. to form a paste; mix well, and roll it into sticks. Colours may be added at will. Refined Wax. Crude wax, especially that imported, is generally loaded with dirt, bees, and other foreign matter. To free it from