MERCURY. 896 curials, administered by the faculty, have, owing to the peculiar idiosyncrasy of the patients, been followed by the most horrible sufferings, terminating in death. MER'CURY. Si/n. Quicksilyee ; Hy- DEAEGYETJM (Pll. L. E. & D.), AQUA AEGEN- TEAf, A. METALLOEUMf, AeGENTUM TIVUMf, IIYDEAEGYETISt, MEECUEIUSf, L.; MeECTJEE, ViF-AEGENT, Fr. j Qtjecksilbee, Ger. A remarkable metal, which has been known from a very early period. The Romans em- ployed it as a medicine externally, as did the Arabs; but the Hindoos were probably the first to prescribe it internally. Sources, The most important are the mines of Idria, in Carniola, and Almaden, in New Castile, where it exists combined with sulphur, under the form of ciknabae. From this ore the pure metal is obtained by distilling it with lime or iron filings, in iron retorts, by which the sulphur it contains is seized and retained, while the mercury rises in the state of vapour, and is condensed in suitable receivers. Quick- silver is commonly imported in cylindrical iron bottles, containing from \ cwt. to 1 cwt. each. It is also imported in small quantities from China, contained in bamboo bottles holding about 20 lb, each. Prep, Mercury, as imported, is usually sufficiently pure for medicinal purposes without any further preparation. Mere mechanical impurities, as floating dust, dirt, &c., may be got rid of by squeezing the metal through chamois leather or flannel, or by Altering it through a small hole in the apex of an inverted cone of paper. It now forms strained mercury \ (HYDEAEGYEUM—Ph. L.). The Dublin Col- lege orders pure mercury (‘hydeaegyeum PIJETJM ’) to be prepared for inedi(;al purposes by putting 6 parts of mercury into a retort, and distilling off four parts. The whole of | the mercury may, however, be safely drawn i over. The product is ordered to be agitated | and boiled with hydrochloric acid, 2 fl. dr., and i water, 1 fl. oz., for each lb. of the metal, and | after being well washed with water, to be dried by heat. A strong earthenware or iron retort, with a low neck or tube dipping into a basin of water, may be used for this purpose. One of the quickest and best means of purifying | mercury is to well agitate it with a concentrated i solution of nitrate of mercury, at the tem- perature of about 112° Fahr., after which it may be washed with distilled water, and dried by passing it several times through clean, dry, chamois leather. Prop., 8^‘c. Mercury, at all common tem- peratures, is a heavy liquid, possessing a nearly silver-white colour, and a brilliant metallic lustre; solidifies (freezes) at —40° Fahr., and j is then ductile, malleable, and tenacious; boils at 662° Fahr., and escapes in colourless trans- parent vapour, of great density ; it also volati- lizes slowly at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere. The presence of minute quan- tities of lead and zinc greatly retard its evapo- ration at Its boiling heat. It unites with oxygen, chlorine, iodine, &c., forming numerous compounds. With the metals it unites to form AMALGAMS. The only acids which act directly on metallic mercury are the sulphuric and nitric, but for this purpose the former must be heated and concentrated. Nitric acid, however, even when dilute and in the cold, dissolves it freely. Pure mercury is unalterable in the air at ordinary temperatures. Sp. gr. 13'59 at 60° Fahr.; about 14‘ when in the solid state. ; Pur. “ It is totally dissipated by heat, and | is entirely dissolved by diluted nitric acid; j but is insoluble in boiling hydrochloric acid. ' The acid poured off, and allowed to cool, is neither coloured nor yields a precipitate with sulphuretted hydrogen.^’ (Ph. L. 1836.) “Its sp. gr. is 13-5.’^ (Ph. L. 1851.) “ A globule moved about on a sheet of paper yields no trail; pure sulphuric acid agitated with it (in the cold) evaporates when heated, Avithout leaving any residuum.’^ (Ph. E.) Tests. 1. Metallic mercury is detected by its liquid condition and volatility; and, w'hen in a finely divided or pulverulent state, by the microscope, or by staining a piece of copper white when the two are rubbed together. 2. The sails of mercury are recognised as follows:— ' a. They are all volatilized or decomposed by ignition. b. When intimately mixed Avith anhydrous carbonate of soda, and heated in a small test- tube, under a layer of the carbonate, decom- position ensues, and a crust of gray sublimate , forms on the cooler portion of the tube. When > examined by a lens, this crust is seen to consist of minute metallic globules. By friction Avith a bright glass or iron rod, these are united into globules Avhich are visible to the naked eye. c. Protochloride of tin, added in excess to a solution containing mercury, gives a grayish precipitate of metallic mercury, Avhich may be united into globules by heat and agitation, or more readily by boiling Avith hydrochloric- acid. d. A perfectly clean and bright piece of copper, immersed in a slightly acid solution of mercury, becomes in a short time covered Avith a gray or ivhitish stain, which assumes a silvery lustre Avhen gently rubbed with a piece of soft cork or leather, and is removed by the subse- quent application of heat. A single drop of liquid may be tested on a bright copper coin in this Avay. e. The plate of copper Avith the deposit of mercury, obtained as above, after being Avashed with a weak solution of ammonia, and in dis- tilled water, and dried by pressure between the folds of bibulous pajier, may be cut into small pieces, and heated in a test-tube, in order to obtain metallic globules. When the suspected solution contains organic matter, bright copper filings may be employed, and