986 OILS (VOLATILE). Oil of Tur'pentine. Syn. Spirit of t.. Essence of t., Turps, Camphene, Cam- PHiNE; Spiritus terebinthin^, Essentia t.. Oleum terebinthin^e (Ph. L. & D.), O. t. PURiFiCATUM (Ph. E.), L. The oil of turpen- tine of commerce is obtained by distilling strained American turpentine along with water. The residuum in the still is ‘ resin,' or ‘ rosin.’ The product in oil varies from 14g to 16§. The Colleges order it to be ‘ rectified’ before being employed for medicinal purposes. This is effected by re-distilling it along with 3 or 4 times its volume of water, observing not to draw over quite the whole. The portion re- maining in the retort (balsam of turpen- tine) is viscid and resinous. A better plan is to well agitate it with an equal measure of liquor of potassa or milk of lime before recti- fying it. This is the plan adopted for the cam- phine used for lamps. By agitating ‘ crude oil of turpentine’ with about 5g of sulphuric acid, diluted with twice its weight of water, and after repose and decantation rectifying it from 5 or 6 times its volume of the strongest lime water, a very pure and nearly scentless oil may be obtained. Dr. Nimmo recommends oil of turpentine to be purified by agitation with ^th part of rectified spirit, after repose to decant the spirit, and to repeat the process 3 or 4 times. The product retains, however, fully ^th part of spirit in solution, and hence this method is objectionable, except for medi- cinal purposes, for which, according to Dr. Garrod, it is better than the oil purified by rectification. The ‘ sweet spirits of turpentine’ (spiritus terebinthin^ dulcis), vended of late years in the shops, is simply the common oil which has been agitated with, and rectified from, somewhat dilute sulphuric acid. Prop. Pure oil of turpentine is colourless; limpid; very mobile; neutral to test paper; has an odour neither powerful nor disagreeable when recently prepared, but becoming so by exposure to the air; dissolves |th part of | alcohol of ’830; is soluble in 6 parts of ether and in 7a parts of rectified spirit; hot strong alcohol dissolves it freely, but the greater part separates in globules as the liquid cools. Oil of vitriol chars it, and strong nitric acid attacks it violently, even with flame. It con- geals at 14°, and boils at 312° Eahr. Sp. gr. •867; that of the oil of the shops varies from •872 to *878. It possesses a very high refrac- tive power. At 72° it absorbs 163 times its volume of hydrochloric-acid gas (if kept cool), and in 24 hours from 26^ to 47g of crystals (Kind’s camphor) separate. These have a camphoraceous odour, and, after being washed with water, and sublimed along with some dry chalk, lime, or charcoal, assume the form of a white, translucent, flexible, crystalline mass, which is volatile, soluble in alcohol, and possesses a considerable resemblance to cam- phor. A nearly similar substance is produced by the action of oxygen gas on oil of turpen- tine. Uses, Sfc. Oil of turpentine is extensively used in the manufacture of varnishes and paints. Under the name of ‘CAMPHIne,’ it is occasionally employed for burning in lamps. For the last purpose it must be newly rectified and preserved from the air. By exposure, it rapidly absorbs oxygen, resin is formed, its density increases, and it gives a dull fuliginous flame. In medicine, it is employed as a dia- phoretic, stimulant, vermifuge, &c. Dose. 6 to 30 or 40 drops; in rheumatism, hemicrania, &c., 1 fl. dr. every four hours, in combination with bark or capsicum ; in tape-worm, 3 fl. dr. to 1 fi. oz., either alone or combined with a little syrup of orange peel, every 8 hours, until the worm is expelled. The common symptoms of large doses of this oil are dizziness and a species of temporary intoxication, and occasionally nausea and sickness, which sub- side after two or three alvine evacuations, leaving no other effect, when the oil is pure, than a certain degree of languor for a few hours. In tape-worm, a little castor-oil may be advantageously combined with the second and subsequent doses. Oil of turpentine im- parts a violet odour to the urine. To prevent loss by evaporation and resinification, this oil should be kept in tin cans or glass bottles. For store vessels, closely covered tin cisterns are the best. To prevent accidents, it is proper to caution the operator of the extremely penetrating and inflammable nature of the vapour of this oil, even in the cold. During the process of its distillation, without the greatest precautions are taken, an explosion is almost inevitable. Oil of Vale”rian. Syn. Oleum valerianje (Ph. Bor.), L. From the root of Valeriana oficinalis (Linn.), or wild valerian. Yellow- ish ; viscid; lighter than water; smells strongly of the plant. By exposure to the air, it is partly converted into valerianic ACID, and more readily so under the influence of an alkali. In its usual form it consists of VALEROL, a neutral oily body, borneene, a volatile liquid hydrocarbon, and valerianic ACID. It is powerfully antispasmodic, emmena- gogue, tonic, and stimulant, and, in large doses, narcotic. Dose. 2 to 6 drops; in epi- lepsy, hysteria, hemicrania, hypochondriasis, low fevers, &c. Prod. I5 to 2g (nearly). Oil of Verbena. Syn. Oleum verben.®, L. From the fresh fiowering herb of Verbena odo- rata. Prod. -22 to -fig. The ‘ oil of ver- bena’ of the shops is imported from India, and is obtained from Andropogon citratum. See Oil of Lemon Grass. Oil of Wine. Syn. Heavy oil of wine, Ethereal oil, OilYsEthereal liquor. Sul- phate OF ETHER AND ETHEROLE ; OlEUM jEthereum (Ph. L.), Oleum vini. Liquor ^THEREUS OLEOSUS, L. This is an artiticial production which, for convenience, may be in- cluded under this head. 1. (Ph. L.) Rectified spirit, 2 pints, and sulphuric acid, 36 fl. oz., are cautiously mixed