CHLORIMETRY—CHLORINE. 432 rally prepared by tlie direct action of chlorine on the bases. Char., Tests, &;c. Most of the metallic chlorides are soluble in water. Many fuse when heated, and volatilize unchanged, but others are completely or partially decomposed at a red heat. All, with the exception of those of the alkali and earth metals, are decomposed at a red heat in a current of hydrogen. They are recognised by the following reactions:—1. Heated with a little peroxide of manganese and sulphuric acid, chlorine is evolved, and easily detected by its colour, smell, and bleach- ing properties:—2. The soluble chlorides may be readily detected by their solutions, slightly acidulated with nitric acid, giving with a solu- tion of nitrate of silver a white, curdy preci- pitate {chloride of silver), insoluble in nitric acid, freely soluble in liquor of ammonia, and blackened by the lig^it:—3. The insoluble chlorides may be tested by digesting them in a little liquor of potassa, when a solution of chloride of potassium will be formed, which may be treated as just directed (2); or the chloride may be dissolved in nitric acid, and tested with nitrate of silver as before. See Chloeine. Chlo'Tide of Lime. See Lime and Bleach- ing. Chlo"ride of Zinc. See Zinc. CHLORIM'ETRY. See Chloeometet. CHLORINATED LIME. See Lime. CHLORINATED SO'DA. See Soda. CHLO"RINE (in). Syn. Oxymueiat'ic ACIDf, DePHLOGIS'tICATED MAEINE' A.f; Chloein'ium, L. ; Chloee, Fr.; Chloe, Ger. An elementary substance discovered by Scheele in 1774, and at first supposed to be a compound body. In 1809, MM. Gay-Lussac and Thenard suggested the probability of it being a simple substance; but it was reserved for Sir H. Davy, shortly afterwards, to demon- strate the truth of the suggestion of these foreign chemists. Nat. hist. It exists in nature chiefly in the form of chloride of sodium, which constitutes EOCK SALT when deposited in inland beds, SEA-SALT when dissolved in masses of water. The sea also contains chlorides of potassium, calcium, and magnesium. It is a constituent of several well-known minerals. It has been met with in the air of volcanic districts, com- bined with hydrogen, as hydeochloeic acid. Prep. 1. Strong hydrochloric acid is poured on half of its weight of finely powdered per- oxide of manganese, previously placed in a glass flask or retort; chlorine gas is imme- diately evolved, even in the cold, but much more rapidly on the application of a gentle heat, and is collected in clean, dry bottles by displacement. The tube conducting the gas is so arranged as to reach to the bottom of the bottle, and the chlorine, being heavier than the air, displaces the latter without mixing with it. The bottle is known to be full by the gas, easily perceived by its green colour, overflowing the top of the vessel. The bottle is then closed up with an accurately fitting stopper, previously greased, and an empty one put in its place, which is subse- quently treated in like manner. To free the gas entirely from hydrochloric acid, it is passed through a wash-bottle containing a | small quantity of water; and to render it | quite dry, it is passed over fused chloride of calcium. When the presence of moisture is , no object, chlorine may be collected over | warm water, or, what is better, a saturated | solution of common salt, in the pneumatic j trough. The mercurial trough cannot be em- i ployed, as the chlorine rapidly acts upon the I metal, and becomes absorbed. 2. Same as above, but substituting bichromate i of potassa for the peroxide of manganese. i 3. Hydrochloric acid, diluted with an equal ; weight of water, is poured upon half its weight of “ chloride of lime,” and the gas collected as before. The above are the processes com- monly adopted for small experiments in the ' laboratory. 4. (Commercial.) From oil of vitriol and water, of each, 7 parts, cautiously mixed, and allowed to cool; chloride of sodium (common salt), 4 parts, mixed intimately with peroxide of manganese, 3 parts. The dilute acid is placed in a retort or other generating vessel, and the powder added. The gas comes off slowly at first, but the application of a gentle heat causes it to rush forth in large quantities. These are the proportions ordered by Miller, and now generally adopted. We give below the proportions recommended by earlier : authorities:— Manq. Salt. Acid. ! Water. Brande . 3 8 5 4 .j q. s. ^ Graham . 6 8 13 Liebig . . . 1 3 2 2 Thenard . . 2 3 4 4 Ure . . . . 2 3 2 2 ! The ordinary commercial oil of vitriol, about 1-85 sp. gr., is to be used. Graham does not give the proportion of water, but merely orders dilute acid containing 13 parts of oil of vitriol. Obs. In preparing chlorine on the large scale, the decomposition of the salt is usually effected in capacious leaden retorts. Under the patent of Julius Seybel, sulphate of soda and chlorine are formed by one operation:— Common salt is decomposed by sulphuric acid in closed vessels or chambers lined with lead, heat being applied externally; and the hydro- chloric acid thus formed is made to act on manganese, immersed in water, in a second vessel or chamber. Prop., Uses, ^c. Chlorine is a gas possessing a yellowish-green colour, and a pungent, suffo- cating odour. It is one of the heaviest sub- stances that are gaseous at ordinary tem- peratures, being nearly 2^ heavier than atmo-