ARSENITE—ARTHRITIC, 230 in a form set forth in the schedule to the act; which form or schedule shall he signed by the vender, and by the said purchaser, unless he he unable to write, when such fact shall be recorded in the said schedule by the vender; and this schedule, when a witness is required to the sale, shall also bear his signature, to- gether with his place of abode :—2. Arsenic is not to be sold to a stranger unless in the presence of a witness acquainted with both vender and purchaser :—3. No person to sell arsenic unless it be previously mixed with at least 1 oz. of soot, or ^ oz. of indigo, to the pound; unless such admixture would be in- jurious to the object for which it is intended, when not less than 10 Ih. is to be sold at any one time:—4. Penalty for evading the act, either as vender, purchaser, or witness, £20: —5. Act not to extend to arsenic used in com- pounding prescriptions, nor to the wholesale trade :—6. The word ‘ arsenic ’ to include ‘ arsenious acid, and the arsenites, arsenic acid, and the arseniates, and all other colourless poisonous preparations of arsenic/ See Ae- SENic, Aksenic Acid, Lotions, Pills, Sheep- dipping, Soaps, Solutions, Tooth-cements. Wheat-steeps, Ieon, Potassa, Soda, and other Bases, &c., &c. (also below). Self-detect'ing Arsenious Acid. Prep. (Dr. Cattell.)—1. Ordinary white arsenic to which is added a small quantity of a mixture of dry calomel and quicklime; or of dried sulphate of iron and powdered gall-nuts. The product is white, but immediately turns black when mixed with liquids:—2. As the last, but adding a mixture of thoroughly dried sulphate of iron and ferrocyanide of potassium. Strikes a BLUE ;—3. As last, but using dried phosphate of soda and dried sulphate of iron. Strikes a GEEEN. Proposed as a method of preventing arsenic being used as a poison. AR'SENITE (-nlte). Syn. Ae'senis, L. ; Aesenite, Fr.j Aesenigsauee salz, Ger. A salt of arsenious acid. The alkaline aesenites may be formed by saturating a concentrated solution of arsenious acid with the base ; and most of the insoluble and me- tallic AESENITES by adding a soluble salt of the metal to another of arsenite of potassa or of ammonia. AESENTURET (-yu-ret). Syn. Aeseniu- ee'tum (-i-u-), L.; Aeseniuee, Pr. A com- bination of arsenic with a base, particularly a metal (including hydrogen), in definite pro- portion ; an arsenide. ARSENTURETTED. Syn. Ae'senetted, Aesen'ueetted ; Aeseniuee'tus, Aeseniu- eA'tus, Aesene'tus, L. Combined or im- pregnated with arsenic; of the nature of an arseniuret. The corresponding adj. for arse- niotis acid, is ae'senited; and for arsenic ■acid, aese"niated or ae'senated. ARSE'NO-VIN'IC ACID. A compound, pos- sessing little practical interest, produced by the action of arsenious acid on alcohol. ART. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Aes {gen., ar'tis; pi., ar'tes), L.; rsxvj? {tech!ne), Gr.; Kunst, Ger. Primarily, strength, power, and hence also mental strength, skill; the application of knowledge or power to etfect a desired pur- pose; the power or ability of doing something not taught by nature or instinct; practical skill guided by rules. Science is knowledge—aet, practical skill in applying this knowledge. Aet is applied science; whilst science is knowledge obtained by observation, experience, and ratiocination. This distinction is nowhere more fully seen than within the domain of chemistry, where knowledge, deduction, great power of generalisation, and great expert- ness, are necessary elements of success. Art has filled the world with luxuries, conveniences, and comforts; and art—the aets—useful or fine—are the safest and surest * civilisers ^ of our race. See Science. ARTEMTSINE* (-e-sin). Syn. Aetemi- Si'na*, L. ; Aetemisine*, Fr. Absinthine; because obtained from artemis'ia (-mizh'-’a) absinthium. ARTE"RIAI (-tere'-e-al); Syn .Aeteeia'lis, L.; Aeteeiel, Fr. Of, or belonging to, or contained in an artery, or the arteries; as arte- rial blood. AR'TERY (-ter-e). Syn. Aete"eia, L. ; Aeteee, Fr.; Aeteeie, Pulsadee, Ger. In anatomy, one of the membranous, elastic, pul- sating canals, which convey the newly aerated or red blood from the heart to all parts of the body. With the exception of the pulmonary r artery, they are all extensions and ramifica- tions of the aorta. The arteries are essentially composed of three coats or tunics :—external or cellular, middle or muscular, and internal, consisting of a thin, smooth, and dense lining. —Aeteei'tis (L.), in pathology, is inflamma- tion of an artery; AETEEiOT'OMY(flr^erio/o'rww, L.), in surgery, the cutting into, dividing, or opening an artery. When the object is to extract blood, the section made with the lancet should be nearly half across in an oblique direction. See Aoeta, Cieculation, Hjemoeehage, Ligatuee, &c. ARTE'SIAN (-te'-zhan; or -teze'-yan). [From Artois, a province of France, in which such wells were first formed.] Syn. Aetesien, Fr. In physics and civil engineering, applied to very deep borings into the ground fi’om which water flows. See Fountains, Watee, Wells, &c. ARTHANI'TINE (-tm). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Aetani'tine ; Aethaniti'na, L. a peculiar substance first obtained by M. Saladin, by the action of alcohol on the tuberous stems of the herb arthrani'ta or sow-bread. It is acrid, colourless, and crystalline, and imparts its acridity to the plant. ARTHRAL'GIA (-je-a). [L.] Syn. Ae- THEALGIE, Fr., Ger. Pain in a joint; some-jj times used synonymously with ‘arthritis.’ Medicines which mitigate or remove such pains, are often called antaetheal'gics. ARTHRITIC." Syn. Aetheit'icus, L. j