22 ACETIMETER—ACETIMETRY. act as ‘ carriers ’ of oxygen; or they may facilitate the process by producing an intes- tine motion in the liquid, or by increasing that already existing there. Another re- markable distinction between acetification and fermentation is, that the former requires the continued presence of atmospheric oxygen; whilst the vinous fermentation, after being once established, proceeds perfectly without it; and the lactic fermentation requires neither the intervention of the air to establish it, or its presence afterwards. Pure alcohol does not acetify by itself, al- though it readily oxidises when present in liquids containing vegetable matter; and this, under like circumstances, occurs with greater rapidity in weak solutions than in stronger ones, because of the greater proportion of extraneous vegetable matter present in them. This is the reason why solutions of nearly pure sugar, solutions of coarse moist sugar, grape- juice, and malt-worts, when fermented, com- monly suffer acetification with an increasing celerity corresponding to the order in which their names are here given; and the same ap- plies to other liquids susceptible of this change. During the oxygenation of the alcohol of vegetable solutions, some of the other organic matters present also suffer change. A white gelatinous mass (mothee of vineoae) is commonly deposited;' but this is a secondary result of the process, and not, as formerly supposed, one essential to it. In ordinary cases acetification occurs only at or near the surface of the liquid; which accounts for the length of time required for the operation under the old process of ‘ fielding; ^ and the shorter time in which it is accomplished by the improved process of Mr. Ham. It pro- ceeds favorably at temperatures ranging from 60° to 90° Pahr.; and most rapidly at 95° Eahr. (Liebig). In the ^quick process’ of making vinegar a temperature of 90° to 92° is generally aimed at; but it often rises to 100°, or even to 105° Fahr. As the tem- perature falls acetification proceeds more slowly, and at 46° to 50° Fahr. it ceases alto- gether (Liebig). Aldehyde (see above) is an exceedingly volatile substance, and easily dissipated by a slight heat. It is, therefore, of the highest importance to duly regulate the temperature, as well as the supply of air, during acetifi- cation. In the ‘ quick process ’ of making vinegar the loss from this cause is always con- siderable, and often very great. This loss may be lessened by passing the heated air, as it escapes from the ‘ acetifier,’ through a por- celain or silvered copper worm or refrigerator, set in a chamber containing water of a tem- perature not higher than 40° to 45° Fahr.; ^ It has generally been asserted, that this substance contains and other low forms of organised life; but Mulder describes it, under the name mycoder'ma ace'ti, as a plant of the order ‘ fungi.’ It is formed at the expense of the constituents of the vinegar, and often causes whole vats of it to pass into water. the connection being made at the lower end of the worm, whilst the upper end is open to the air. On the small scale, as in the plati- num-black process, the loss may be almost entirely prevented by causing the upper air- tube to pass through a vessel containing ice or a freezing mixture j or by uniting it with the lower end of a Liebig’s condenser. In liquors undergoing the vinous fermen- tation, a portion of the newly formed alcohol is invariably acetified whenever the tempera- ture rises above 51° Fahr.; and at a higher temperature, this proceeds with a rapidity often highly injurious to the quality of the * liquor. In this way there is frequently a useless loss of the alcohol, which is rendered more apparent by the incipient, and sometimes the actual, souring of the liquor. The hypothesis which assumes that the presence of oxygen is not necessary to the acetification of alcohol, founded on the experi- ments of Fourcroy and Vauquelin, Beecher, Homberg, and others, and recently revived by Donovan, in opposition to the generally re- ceived theory, has been ably examined by Muspratt, who concludes his remarks by assert- ing that the “ deductions drawn ” hy him from these very experiments, “infallibly prove, that oxygen is necessary for the conversion of alcohol into acetic acid.” See Acetic Acid, Acetyle, Alcohol, Aldehyde, Fermenta- tion, 0th YLE, Pyeoligneotjs Acid, Vinegae, Wines, Worts, &c. ACETIM'ETER (as-e-). Syn. Acetom'eteej Acetometee, Fr.; Acetime'teum, &c., L. An instrument or apparatus employed in acetimetry. ACETIM'ETRY. Syn. Acetom'etey ; Ace- TOMETEiE, Fr.; Acetime’tria, &c., L. The art or process of determining the quantity of pure acetic acid in vinegar, or in any other liquid. The plans generally adopted for this purpose are— I. From the Saturating power of the acid, as in the common methods of acidimetry :— 1. The equivalent number of commercially pure bicarbonate of potassa, in crystals, being as near as possible 101, whilst that of absolute acetic acid is 51, it is evident that we shall commit no appreciable error, if we estimate two gr. of the ‘bicarbonate’ as equal to onegr. of the ‘ acid.’ To apply this practically, we have only to exactly neu- tralise 100 gr. of the vine- gar or solution under ex- amination with the bicar- bonate,ohs&rv mg the usual precautions; when half the weight of the salt thus consumed, reckoned in grains, will give the per- centage strength required. In this, as in other like cases, it is convenient to form a test-solution wdth the bicarbonate, by dissolving it in sufii-