992 OINTMENT. Ointment of Chloride of Mercury. See Oint- ments OF Calomel and Coeeosive Subli- mate. Ointment of Chlo"rine. Syn. Unguentum CHLOEiNii, L. Prep. (Augustin.) Chlorine water, 1 part; lard, 8 parts; well triturated together. In itch, lepra, ring-worm, fetid ulcers, &c. Ointment of Chlor-i'odide of Mercury. Syn. Unguentum hydeaegyei chloeiodidi, L. Prep. (M. Recamier.) Chloriodide (iodo- chloride) of mercury, 3 gr. ; lard, 5 dr. Re- commended as a powerful discutient or resol- vent. See Ointment of Iodo-chloeide of Meecuey. Ointment of Chlo"roform. Syn. Unguentum CHLOEOFOEMi, L. Prep. (M. Louis.). Chloro- form, 1 dr.; simple ointment, 1 oz. In neu- ralgia and rheumatic pains, &c. It must be kept in a stoppered, wide-mouthed phial. Ointment of Cincho'na. Syn. Ointment of BAEZ; Unguentum ciNCHONiE, L. Prep. (Biett.) Red cinchona baric (in very fine pow- der) and almond oil, of each, 1 part; beef marrow (prepared), 3 parts. In the variety of scald-head termed porrigo decalvans. A little oil of mace or tar is a useful addition. Cit'rine Ointment. See Ointment of Ni- TEATE OF Meecuey. Ointment of Coc'culus In'dicus. Syn. Un- guentum COCCULI (Ph. E.), L. Prep. (Ph. E.) Kernels of Cocculus Indicus, 1 part; beat them to a smooth paste in a mortar, first alone, and next with a little lard; then fur- ther add of lard, q. s,, so that it may be equal to 5 times the weight of the kernels. Used to destroy pediculi, and in scald-head, &c. Ointment of Cod-liver Oil. Syn. Unguentum OLEI MOEEHUiE, U. O. JECOEIS ASELLI, L. Prep. Cod-liver oil (pale and recent), 7 parts ; white wax and spermaceti, of each, 1 part; melted together. In ophthalmia and opacity of the cornea, either alone or combined with a little citrine ointment; as a friction or dressing for scrofulous indurations and sores ; in rheumatism, stiff joints, and in several skin diseases. It often succeeds in porrigo or scald- head when all other remedies have failed. Scented with oil of nutmeg and balsam of Peru, it forms an excellent pomade for strength- ening and restoring the hair. Ointment of CoTocynth. Syn. Unguentum COLOCYNTHiDis, L. Prep. (Chrestien.) Co- locynth pulp (in very fine powder), 1 part; lard, 8 parts. Used in frictions on the abdo- men as a hydragogue purgative, in mania, dropsy, &c. Ointment of Corro'sive Suh'limate. Syn. Ointment of chloeide of meecuey ; Un- guentum HYDEAEGYEI CHLOEIDI, L. Prep. 1. From corrosive sublimate, 2 to 5 gr.; rub it to powder in a glass or wedgwood-ware mor- tar ; add of rectified spirit, 6 or 7 drops, or q. s.; again triturate; lastly add, gradually, of sper- maceti ointment (reduced to a cream-like state by heat), 1 oz., and continue the trituration until the whole concretes. Used as a stimu- lant, detergent, and discutient application in various local affections; in lepra, porrigo, acne, &c., and as a dressing to syphilitic and some other ulcers. 2. (Ph. Chirur.) Corrosive sublimate, 10 gr. j yolk of 1 egg ,* lard, 1 oz. As a dressing. 3. (POMMADE DE ClEILLO—P. Cod.) Cor- sosive sublimate, 1 dr.; lard, 1 oz. Caustic; must not be confounded with the preceding. Cosmet'ic Ointment. Syn. Unguentum cos- METICUM, L. ; POMMADE DE LA JEUNESSE, Fr. Prep. (Quincey.) Spermaceti, 3 dr. (better, 4| dr.); oil of almonds, 2 oz.; melt together, and, when cooled a little, stir in of nitrate of bismuth (‘ white bismuth’), 1 dr.; and> lastly, of 011 of rhodium, 6 drops. In itch, and some other cutaneous eruptions; but chiefiy as a pommade for the hair. Its frequent use ia said to turn the latter black. Ointment of Cre'asote. Syn. Unguentum CEEASOTi (Ph. L. E. D. & U. S.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Creasote, | fl. dr.; laird, 1 oz.; tri- turate together. 2. (Pb. E.) Lard, 3 oz.; melt it by a gentle heat; add of creasote, 1 dr., and stir the mix- ture until it is nearly cold. 3. (Ph. D.) Creasote, 1 fl. dr.; ointment of white wax, 7 dr.; as the last. Uses, 8fc. In several skin diseases, especially ring-worm; as a friction in tic douloureux ; a dressing for scalds and burns ; an application to chilblains, &c., &c. Ointment of Cro'ton Oil. Syn. Unguentum CEOTONis, L. Prep. 1. Croton oil, 15 to 30 drops; lard (softened by heat), 1 oz.; mix well. This is the usual and most useful strength to prepare this ointment. Rubefacient and counter-irritant; in rheumatism and various other diseases. When rubbed repeatedly on the skin, it produces redness and a pustular eruption. It also often affects the bowels by absorption. The only advantage it possesses over other preparations of the class is the ra- pidity of its action. 2. (Rubefacient Pommade—Caventou.) White wax, 1 part; lard, 5 parts; melt toge- ther, and, when quite cold, mince it small, add of croton oil, 2 parts, and mix by trituration. Stronger than the last. Ointment of Cy'anide of Mer'cury. Syn. Unguentum hydeaegyei cyanidi, L. Prep. 1. (Cazenave.) Cyanide of mercury, 8 gr.; lard, 1 oz.; carefully triturated together. 2. (Pereira.) Cyanide of mercury, 10 to 12 gr.; lard, 1 oz. As a dressing for scrofu- lous and syphilitic ulcers, &c.; as an applica- tion in psoriasis, moist tetters, and some other skin diseases, &c. Biett orders the addition of a few drops of essence of lemon. Ointment of Cyanide of Potas'sium. Syn. Unguentum potassii cyanidi, L. Prep. (Cazenave.) Cyanide of potassium, 12 gr.; oil of almonds, 2 dr.; triturate, add of cold cream (dry), 2 oz., and mix by careful tritura- tion. As an anodyne in neuralgia, rheuma-