PUTRID FEVER—PYRO-. 1151 rotid artery, by means of a syphon, as soon the blood ceases to flow from the slaugh- 'ed animal j both extremities of the jugular |in being previously tied. 9 to 12 quarts of ie solution are sufficient for an ox, and a pro- jrtionate quantity for smaller animals. A js quantity is also required in winter than jmmer. When the animal has been well !>d, and the injection skilfully performed, it scarcely perceptible that the animal has un- rgone any preparation. The injected animal cut up in the usual way; and when intended be eaten within 2 or 3 weeks merely requires ' be hung up in a dry, airy situation, free |)m flies j but if it is to be kept for a longer riod, it is directed to be washed with a !xed solution of common salt and chloride of 'minium at 10° Baume, and then simply ied and packed in clean air-tight barrels, d kept in a cool, dry place. If the air nnot be perfectly excluded, it should be eked in dry salt, not for the purpose of pre- rving it, but to prevent the vegetation of 3sus, as, without this precaution, the meat comes musty from exposure and the action moisture. Meat preserved by this process ly be kept for several years, and merely :juires soaking for 24 hours in water, for the .rpose of swelling its pores, to give it the pearance and taste of fresh meat, fit for ;her roasting or boiling. For hot climates a raewhat stronger solution, or a larger quan- ^y of the usual one, may be injected. The !e of the strong solutions ordered in some cent works, however, deprives the flesh of [portion of its apparent freshness, and makes , more nearly approach in flavour to that [uch has been slightly salted in the ordinary inner. In addition to the above, it may be added at both flesh and flsh may be preserved by pping them into, or brushing them over pyroligneous acid, and then drying them, lis gives them a smoky flavour; but if pure etic acid (Ph. L.) be used, no taste will be uparted. These fluids may be applied by :?ans of a clean painter’s brush, or even a ff feather. A table-spoonful is sufficient to ush over a large surface. Fish and flesh so epared will bear a voyage to the East Indies, d back, uninjured. Fish may also be preserved in a dry state, d perfectly fresh, by means of sugar alone, esh fish may be thus kept for some days, so to be as good when boiled as if just caught, dried and kept free from mouldiness, there ems no limit to their preservation; and they e much more nutritious in this way than aen salted. This process is particularly valu- le in making what is called * kippered sal- ?n’; and the fish preserved in this manner e far superior in quality and flavour to those hich are salted or smoked. A few table- oonfuls of brown sugar are sufficient for a Imon of five or six pounds’ weight; and if ^It be desired, a teaspoonful or two may be added. Saltpetre may be used, instead of salt, if it be wished to make the kipper hard. The well-known property possessed by ether, alcohol,pyroxylic spirit, chloroform, and certain other hydrocarbons, of averting putrefaction, has been thus applied by M. Robin :—He en- closes the meat or other substances to be pre- served in a glass case, along with a sponge or a capsule containing the preservative liquid, which latter is continually evolved in a va- porous condition, and exercises the preservative agency. In this way the vapours of hydro- cyanic acid are found to be very efficacious. Camphor is thus employed in the mummy cases in the British Museum. It has been asserted by Mr. George Hamilton, that in an atmosphere of binoxide of nitrogen, in the dark, flesh preserves its natural colour and freshness for about 5 months; and eats well, provided it be boiled in open vessels, to expel nitrous fumes. See Animal Substances, CANDYiNa, Egg, Fish, Feuit,Milk, Pickles, Potting, Peeseeves, Salting, Smoking, Stuffing, Vegetable Substances, &c. PU'TRID FEVER. See Typhus. PUT'TY. This name is given to the follow- ing preparations (when used alone, 'Glazier’s putty’ is generally indicated):— Glazier’s Putty. From whiting, made into a stiff paste with drying oil. It is used to fix panes of glass in sashes, to fill holes and cracks in wood before painting it, &c. Plasterer’s Putty. A fine cement used by plasterers, made of lime only. It differs from ‘ FINE stuff’ in the absence of hair. Polisher’s Putty. Syn. Putty powdee. Calcine ; Cineees stanni, Stanni oxydum CEUDUM, L. A crude peroxide of tin, obtained by exposing metallic tin in a reverberatory furnace, and raking off the dross, as it forms; this is afterwards calcined until it becomes whitish, and is then reduced to powder. Another method is to melt tin with rather more than an equal weight of lead, and then to rapidly raise the heat so as to render the mixed metal red hot, when the tin will be immediately flung out in the state of ‘ putty’ or ‘ peroxide.’ The products of both these processes are very hard, and are used for polishing glass and japan w^ork, and to colour opaque white enamel. See Tin. PUZZOLA'NA, PuozzoLANA, or, more cor- rectly, PuzzuoLANA, is a volcanic ash, found at Puzzuoli, near Naples. When mixed with lime, it forms an excellent hydraulic cement. A good factitious puzzolena may be made by heating a mixture of 3 bushels of clay and 1 bushel of fresh-slaked lime, for some hours, to redness. (M. Bruyere.) See Cement and Moetae. PYRI'TES. A term applied to several native metallic sulphurets. Ieon pyeites is the best known of these. PY'RO-. The term is applied to several acids that are obtained by the action of heat on 1