BELLADONNA, •300 parts fused together and cast in the manner described under Bronze. The most sonorous of all the alloys of copper and tin. It is easily fusible, and has a fine compact grain, and a vitreous-conchoidal and yellowish-red fracture. According to Klaproth, the finest-toned Indian gongs have this composition. 2. (Founder’s Standard.) Copper, 77 parts; tin, 21 parts; antimony, 2 parts.^ Slightly paler and inferior to No. 1. 3. Copper, parts; tin, 20 parts.^ Very deep-toned and sonorous. Used in China and India for the larger gongs, tam-tams, Sfc. 4. Copper, 78 to 80 parts; tin, 22 to 20 parts. Usual composition of Chinese cymbals, tam-tams, ^'‘c. 5. Copper, 75 (=3) parts ',tin, 25 (= 1) parts.** Somewhat brittle. In fracture, semi- vitreous and bluish-red. Used for church and other large bells. 6. Copper, 80 parts; tin, 10^ parts; zinc, 5^ parts; lead, 4\ parts. ‘English bell- metal,’ according to Thomson. Inferior to the last; the lead being apt to form isolated drops, to the injury of the uniformity of the alloy. 7. Copper, 68 parts; tin, 32 parts.^ Brittle; fracture, conchoidal and ash-gray. Best pro- portions for house-bells, hand-bells, / for which, however, 2 of copper, and 1 of tin, is commonly substituted by the founders. 8. Copper, 72 parts; tin, 26^ parts ; iron, part. Used by the Paris houses for the bells of small clocks or pendules. 9. Copper, 72 parts; tin, 26 parts; zinc, 2 parts. Used, like the last, for very small bells. 10. Copper, 70 parts; tin, 26 parts; zinc, 4 parts. Used for the bells of repeating watches. Concluding Remarks. Castings in bell-metal are all more or less brittle; and, when recent, have a colour varying from a dark ash-gray to grayish-white, which is darkest in the more cupreous varieties, in which it turns somewhat on the yellowish-red or bluish-red. The larger the proportion of copper in the alloy, the deeper and graver the tone of the bells formed of it. The addition of tin, iron, or zinc, causes them to give out their tones sharper. Bismuth and lead are also often added to modify the tone, which each metal, affects differently. The addition of antimony and bismuth is frequently made by the founder to give a more crystalline grain to the alloy. All these additions are, however, prejudicial to the sonorousness of beUs, and of very doubtful utility. Kapid refrigeration increases the so- ^ Tlie resulting alloy probabU contains 7 Cu -f- Sn. 2 More antimony, or some other metal, is often added, as subsequently noticed; but always to the injury of tlie alloy as bell-nikal. 3'Equal to about 8 Cu -H Sn. In some gongs the pro- portion of tin is so low as 23, or even 20 parts, to 100 parts of copper. * Nearly equal to 6 Cu + Sn. 5 Equal to about 4 Cu -t- Sn. norousness of all these alloys. Hence M. D’Arcet recommends the ‘ pieces ’ to be heated to a cherry-red after they are cast, and after- having been suddenly plunged into cold water, to be submitted to well-regulated pressure by skilful hammering, irntil they assume their proper form; after which they are to be again heated and allowed to cool slowly in the air. This is the method adopted by the Chinese with their gongs, &c., a ‘ casing ’ of sheet-iron being employed by them to support and pro- tect the pieces during the exposure to heat. In a general way, however, bells are formed and completed by simple casting. .This is ne- cessarily the case with all very large bells. Where the quality of their tones is the chief object sought after, the greatest care should be taken to use commercially pure copper. The presence of a very little lead or any similar metal, greatly lessens the sonorousness of this alloy; whilst that of silver increases it. This last metal has been detected in many old church-bells remarkable for the richness of their tones—articles of silver-plate having been cast into the crucibles of the founder.s, as votive offerings, by the pious Christians of former ages. The specific gravity of a large bell is seldom uniform throughout its whole substance; nor can the sp. gr. from any given proportion of its constituent metals be exactly calculated, owing to the many interfering circumstances. The nearer this uniformity is approached, or in other words, chemi(*al combination is com- plete, the more durable and finer-toned will be the bell. In general it is found necessary to take about 1-lOth more metal than the weight of the intended bell, or bells, in order to allow for waste and scorification during the ope- rations of fusing and casting. See Bell {above'), Bronze, Copper, &c. BELLADONN'A (-don'-a). [It., Sp., Port.; Eng., L., Ger.Ph. £., E., D., & U. S.] Ryn. Dead'ly night'shade, Dwale ; Belledame, Belladonne, &c., Fr.; Todtlicher nacht- SCHATTEN, TOLLKERSCHE, ToLLKRATJT, WOLP- SKIRSCHE, &c., Ger.; At'ropa letha'lts*, Sola'num ETJRio'srM*, S. letha'le*, S. ma- NI'ACUM*, S. MELANOCER'ASTJSf, &C., L., Bot. var. Literally, ‘ fair-lady ’; in materia medico, botany, Spc., the usual name (adopted from the Ital.) of at'ropa belladonn’a (Linn.), an indi- genous, poisonous, perennial, herbaceous plant, of the nat. ord. Solanese (DC.; Solanacea', Endl., Lind.). It flowers in June and July, and its drooping, purple blossoms are common ornaments of our hedges and wastes where the soil is calcareous. It is supposed to be the ‘ insane root ’ of Shakespeare.'^ The parts of this plant used in medicine and pharmacy are the leaves (fo"lia bella- don'n^) and root (ra'dix b.).—“The leaf, recent and dried.” (Ph. L.) “ The leaves.” As a borrowed word. 7 Macbeth," a. i., s. 3.