PATENT MEDICINES. 1041 1 [/ell; next lay It out about as thick as a crown- j iece; put a layer of butter all over it, sprinkle in a little flour, double it up, and roll it out [gain; by repeating this with fresh layers of \utter three or four times, or oftener, a very ght paste will be formed. Bake it in a loderately quick oven. 4. (Soyer.) Put 1 lb. of flour upon your astry slab, make a hole in the centre, into | hich put a teaspoonful of salt, mix it with [old water into a soffcish flexible paste with lie right hand, dry it off a little with flour intil you have well cleared the paste from the 'lab, but do not work it more than you can ossibly help; let it remain for 2 or 3 minutes pon the slab, then take 1 lb. of fresh butter, \ •om which you have squeezed all the butter- ' lilk in a cloth, and brought to the same con- j jlstency as the paste, upon which place it; ress it out flat with the hand, then fold over | :ie edges of the paste so as to hide the butter, 1 lid reduce it with the rolling-pin to the thick- ess of about ^ an inch, when it will be about j .vo feet in length j fold over one third, over I hich again pass the rolling-pin; then fold ver the other third, thus forming a square; lace it with the ends top and bottom before oil, shaking a little flour both under and ver, and repeat the rolls and turns twice gain as before; flour a ‘baking-sheet,^ upon Inch lay it, on ice, if handy, or otherwise, in nne cool place, for about half an hour; then all it twice more, turning it as before, and gain place it upon ice or in the cold for 4 of n hour; next give it two more rolls, maJcing 'oven in all, and it is ready for use. “You aust continually add enough flour while rolling a prevent your paste sticJcing to the slab.” I Halp-puff Paste. As the preceding, using nly one half the quantity of butter, and giving he paste only 3 or 4 folds. SiroET Paste, Shoet Ceest.—1. Flour dry and warm), 1 lb. ; sugar, 3 oz. ; butter, lb.; 2 eggs; water, 4 pint; make a light i ough. If one half of ‘ Jones’s patent flour ’ e used, no eggs will be required. 2. (Soyer.) Put on the ‘ paste slab ’ or pie board ^ 1 lb. of flour, 2 oz. of pounded ugar, G oz. of butter, 1 egg, | teaspoonful of •xlt, and 4 pint of water ; mix the sugar and utter well together, add them with the water y degrees to the flour, and form a paste, ut firmer than puff paste. Pie Paste. That commonly used is ‘ short aste,' varied at will; but at good tables the | pper crust of the pie is generally made ofj puff paste,’ and the remainder of ^ short aste.’ Pudding Paste. This, for baked puddings, lay resemble the last. For boiled puddings or indeed for any), the paste may be either rdinary ‘ short paste,’ or one made with 2 to ■ oz. of butter or lard, or 3 to 8 oz. of chopped eef suet, to each lb. of flour, with or without and a little sugar, according to the j leans of the parties. They?r6-^ is most appro- priate for those containing fresh fruit, and that with suet for meat puddings, and those containing dried fruit, as grocer’s currants, plums, &c. Milk or milk-and-water is often used instead of simple water to make the dough. Ginger, spices, savory herbs, &c., are common additions to the crusts of puddings. Where economy is an object, and especially among the lower classes, kitchen fat is fre- quently substituted for suet, and lard for butter. When ‘ Jones’s patent flour’ is em- ployed, an excellent plain pudding paste may be made by simply mixing it up with very cold water, and immediately putting it into the water, which should be boiling, and kept in that state until the pudding is dressed. PATENT MEDICINES. Syn. Medica- MENTA AECANA, L. The majority of the pre- parations noticed under this head are the nostrums popularly termed ‘ quack medi- cines,’ and which are sold with a Government stamp attached to them. A few other seceet or peopeietaey eemedies are also, for con- venience, included in the list. An alpha- betical arrangement, based on the names of the reputed inventors or proprietors of the articles, has been adopted, as being the one best suited for easy reference. The compo- sition of a number of them is given from care- ful personal inspection and analysis (by Mr. Cooley), and that of the remainder on the authority of Gray, Griffith, Paris, Redwood, the members of the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy, and other respectable writers. A variety of articles not included in the fol- lowing list are noticed along with other pre- parations of the class to which they belong, or under the names of their proprietors. See Balsam, Ceeate, Deops, Essence, Tinctuee, Ointment, Pills, &c. Abernethy’s Pills. See Abeenethy Medi- cines (page 2). Albinolo’s Ointment. See Holloway’s Ointment {below). Ali Ahmed’s Treasures of the Desert. There are three preparations included under this name:— a. (Antiseptic Malagma.) From lead plaster, 3 parts; gum thus and salad oil, of each, 2 parts; bees’ wax, 1 part; melted together by a gentle heat, and spread upon calico. b. (Pectoeal, Antiphthisis, or Cough Pills.) From myrrh, 34 lb.; squills and ipecacuanha, of each, 1 lb. / (all in powder;) white soft soap, 10 oz. ; oil of aniseed, 14 oz.; treacle, q. s. to form a pill-mass. c. (Sphaieopeptic or Antibilious Pills.) I From aloes, 28 lb.; colocynth pulp, 12 lb.; \ rhubarb, 7 lb.; myrrh and scammony, of each, I 34 lb. ; ipecacuanha, 3 lb.; cardamom seeds, I 2 lb.; (all in powder;) soft soap, 9 lb.; oil of juniper, 7 fl. oz.; treacle, q. s. This, as well as the last, is divided into 34-gr. pills, which are then covered with tin foil or silver leaf. An excellent aperient pill, no doubt, and one 66