EXTRACT. 622 Prep. 1. (Aqueous; E. K. V. AQUOSUM, L. —Ph. Bor.) From the powdered nut, as EX- TEACT OF HOPS—Ph. L. (nearly). Dose. 1 to 5 gr. 2. (Alcoholic; Exteacthm xtjcis vo- MiCiE—Ph. L. E. and D., E. x. v. alcoholi- CUM, L.)—a. (Ph. L.) Koochla or poison nuts (seed or fruit of Strychnos Nux-vomica), 8 oz.; rectified spirit, 3 pints; expose them to steam until softened, then bruise, slice, and dry them, and macerate them in 2-3rds of the spirit for 7 days; express the tincture, and repeat the ma- ceration with the remaining l-3rd of the spirit; again express the liquid; lastly, filter the mixed tinctures, distil off the greater part of the spirit, and complete the evaporation by a gentle heat. The formula of the P. Cod. is similar, but using spirit sp. gr. *863 (=41 o. p.). d. (Ph. E.) The sliced and dried nuts are to he ground in a coffee-mill, and either ex- hausted by percolation with rectified spirit or by boiling the powder in repeated portions of the menstruum. The formulae of the Ph. Baden and U. S. are similar. c. (Ph. D. 1826.) From a tincture of the rasped nut made with proof spirit, observing that the extract, whilst thickening, should be properly stirred. Ohs. This extract consists chiefly of impure igasurate of strychnia, and is exhibited in simi- lar cases to that alkaloid. Used as a stimulant of the nervous system in paralysis. Dose. ^ gr., gradually and cautiously increased to 2 gr. It is xery poisonous. On the large scale, the nuts are ground in a drug-mill. Extract of Oak Bark. Syn. Exteacthm QUEECus, E. coETicis QUEECus, L. Prep. (Ph. D. 1826.) From the decoction. Astrin- gent. Dose. 10 gr. to i dr. Now seldom used. Extract of O'pium. Prep. 1. (AQrEOtis EXTEACT OF OPIUM, SIMPLE E. OF O. ; ExTEAC- TUM OPII (Ph. L. & E.), E. O. AQUOSUM (Ph. D.), E. o. PUEIFICATUM, L.)—a. (Ph. L.) Opium (powdered), l^lb.; distilled water {co\di), 2^ pints; mix gradually, and macerate for 24 hours, frequently stirring with a spatula; (press), strain, and repeat the maceration for 24 hours with a fresh quantity (2| pints) of water i lastly, evaporate the (mixed) strained liquors to a proper consistence. The formulae of the Ph. E. D. and Baden, and P. Cod., are essentially the same. b. (Ph. D. 1826.) As the last, but using boiling water, and exposing the mixed liquors to the air for 2 days, before filtering and eva- porating them. Inferior to the last. c. (Purified.) The extract, prepared with cold water, is evaporated to dryness, pow- dered, and redissolved in cold water; after 48 hours’ exposure, and defecation, it is de- canted from the dregs, filtered, and gently evaporated, as before. Superior to any other extract of opium made. Ohs. Good opium yields from 60 to 70g of its weight of extract, but much depends upon the variety used. Dose, i gr. to 2 gr., as an ano- dyne, sedative, and hypnotic. It is less stimu- ( lant than ordinary opium. That prepared by the third formula is, indeed, scarcely inferior in its action to the salts of moephine. This extract is kept in both the hard and soft state (exteactum opii dueum, e. o. molle). a solution of Ua.<e former, in distilled water, with the addition of a little spirit to keep it, forms Battley’s ‘ liquoe opii seda- Tivus.’ The Dublin formula is that adopted by the wholesale druggists. Besides the aqueous extract, there are the following preparations, which are occasionally used instead of it:— 2. (Acetic; Exteactum opii aceticum, L.—Soubeiran.) Opium, 1 oz.; distilled vine- gar, 1 quart; digest 2 days (with heat), decant, filter, and evaporate. 3. (Alcoholic; Exteactum opii alcoholi- cum, L.—Ph. Antwerp.) From the tincture. 4. (Aqueo-alcoholic; E. opii aquo-alcoho- LicuM, L.—Taddei.) The opium, exhausted by spirit, is digested in warm water, and the infusion and tincture, separately filtered, are mixed and evaporated. 5. (De-narcotized; Exteactum opii absque NAECOTINA, L.)—a. (P. Cod.) The aqueous extract is reduced with hot water to the con- sistence of a syrup, and when cold this is mixed with 8 times its volume of ether, and the whole is frequently shaken for a day or two; the ethereal solution is then decanted, and the process repeated with fresh ether, as long as it dissolves anything. The original form of Robiquet is similar. Said to consist entirely of impure imueiate of moephine, GUM, and EXTEACTIVE. b. (M. Lamousin-Lamothe.) Aqueous ex- \ tract, 4 parts; resin, 1 part; beat well toge- ther; add boiling water, 16 parts; boil to one ^ half; add cold water, 8 parts, filter, and eva- porate. 6. (By Fermentation; Exteactum opii PEE FEEMENTATIOXEM, L.)—a. Opium and sugar, of each, 4 oz.} wafer, 1 quart; rub toge- ther, and keep the mixture, loosely covered, in a warm situation (about 70° Fahr,), for 10 days or more; then add of cold water, 1 quart, and the next day filter and evaporate. b. (Deyeux.) From an unstrained mixture of opium, 1 part, with water, 8 parts, and a little yeast; left for a week at a temperature of 68° to 77° Fahr., and then diluted, filtered, and evaporated. Some parties have recom- mended quince juice as the menstruum. 7. (Roasted; Exteactum opii toeee- FACTI, L.— Guibourt.) Powdered oqnum is heated on a flat dish over a moderate fire, with constant stirring, as long as fumes are given off; it is then exhausted by treating it twice il' with 6 times its weight of water, and the ' mixed liquor, after filtration, is evaporated. “ 8. (Vinous; Exteactum opii tixo paea- TUM, L.—P. Cod.) 'From wine of opium. The |