BREAD. 357 fermenting and baking tiie dough, and thus contributes to the sweetness of the bread. He proposes to add to the flour, arrow-root, the farina of potatoes, and similar amylaceous sub- stances, made into a jelly with hot water, for this purpose. Dr. Percival has recommended the addition of salep with the same inten- tion. 1 oz. of salep, dissolved in 1 quart of i water ; 2 lb. of four ; 80 yr. of salt; and 2 oz. of yeast, gave 3 lb. 2 oz. of good bread. The same weight of materials, without the salep, gave only 2f lb. If too much salep is added, it gives its peculiar flavour to the bread. In reference to the above substitutions, and j to the relative quantity of bread produced from I any given weight of flour, the reader should I remember that the mere increase of the weight \ or bulk of the product does not carry with it a corresponding increase of the nutritive ele- ments contained in the flour. These remain the same, in all cases; and just in proportion ; as the product, in bread, is greater, will be the decrease in the value of such bread as food. I So also with potatoes, rice, and other farina- j ceous and pulpy substances used as substitutes for wheat-flour. Their poverty in nitroge- i nous matter, or ‘ flesh-formers,’ is so great, that the greatly increased quantity required as food, to support the body, apart from mere inconvenience, more than compensates for ! their apparent low price. Thus, good wheaten j bread, at 2c?. per lb., is more than ‘ twice ’ as cheap as ‘ potatoes ’ at Id. ; for, assuming 2 lb. I of the flrst as a day’s food, 10 lb. of the last I will be required for the same purpose; and I even this large quantity will scarcely effect j the desired object. Liebig has demonstrated, that regard being had to the nutritive power of wheat, it is, under all ordinary circum- I stances, the cheapest article of food provided i by nature for man. f* In the preceding article we have not en- I tered into particulars respecting ‘ oven man- I agement,’ because, on the large scale, it is I thoroughly understood by every practical I baker. For the instruction of the busy house- wife, we may state, that the oven should always 1 be sufficiently heated before the bread is put I into it, in order that the gas contained in the : cells of the ‘ sponge ’ may be expanded as ra- ! pidly as possible by the heat, and the resulting ! light mass quickly rendered sufficiently solid I to prevent its subsequent collapse. The heat I should also be maintained at nearly the same temperature during the whole of the time the i bread is submitted to its action. In general, j with ordinary kitchen-ovens properly heated, I 30 minutes’ baking is sufficient fbr one-pound I loaves and cakes; and 15 minutes in addition • for every pound after the flrst, for larger ones. 1 Thus, a 1 /A.-loaf requires ^ hour; a 2 Ib.- ! loaf I hour ; and a 4 /A.-loaf, li hour. ! It is the common ambition of the English I baker to give that peculiar tint to the crust i of his bread in the process of baking which I is so highly esteemed by connoisseurs, and so successfully produced by the Viennese and Parisians. It has been long known at Vienna, that if the hearth of an oven be cleaned with a moistened ‘wisp’ of straw, the crust of bread baked in it immediately afterwards, presents a beautiful yellow-tint. It was thence inferred that this peculiarity depends on the vapour, which being condensed on the roof of the oven, falls back on the bread. At Paris, in order to secure with certainty so desirable an appearance, tbe ‘ hearth ’ of the oven is generally laid so as to form an inclined plane, with a rise of about 11 inches in 3 feet; and the ‘arched roof’ is built lower at the end nearest the door, as compared with the further extremity. When the oven is charged, the entrance is closed with a wet bundle of straw. By this arrangement the steam is driven down on the bread, and a golden-yellow crust is given to it, as if it had been pre- viously covered with the yelk of an egg. Pure wheaten bread is one of the most whole- some articles of food, and has been justly termed the ‘ staflT of life.’ When well fer- mented and baked, it is very easy of digestion. It should never be eaten until it has stood at least 24 hours after being taken out of the oven. Wlien newer, bread is apt to disagree with the stomach, frequently producing indi- gestion, biliousness, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, and other like ailments. Bread prepared from meal containing the whole of the bran, is the most nutritious and digestible, and should alone be given to children and growing per- sons, and eaten by the dyspeptic and delicate. Wheaten bread (pa'nis) is included in the Materia Medica of the London Pharmaco- poeia. See Aleueometee, Alum, Floue, Wheat, &c. American Bread. From American barrelled flour. “ 14 lb. of American flour will make 21\lb. of bread; whereas the best sort of English flour produces only 18? lb. of bread.” (Mrs. Rundell.) This arises from the superior quality of the wheat used in its production; and also from its being kiln-dried before grinding, by which much water is driven off. Bee Bread. The matter collected by bees to form the bottom of the hive. It resembles a mixture of rosin and wax. Its fumes were formerly thought to be anti-asthmatic. Bran Bread. 1. From the whole meal, with- out sifting out any of the bran. 2. By adding about 3 oz. of bran to every lb. of ordinary flour. Extempora"neous Bread. See Uneeemented Beead. French Bread. Prep. 1. From flne flour, as the best white bread. For the better kinds, and for those intended for rolls and small fancy bread, the sponge and dough is commonly wetted with milk-and-water, and, occasionally, a very little butter is added. “ When the rolls or small fancy loaves have lain in a quick oven about a quarter of an hour, turn them on the other side for about a quarter of an hour I