92 ALIZARINE—ALKALI. ALIZ'ARINE (-nil). [Eng-., Er.] Sf/n. Altz- AEI'na, L. Pure madder-red (which see). AL'KAHEST.f [Eng., L.j prim., Ar.) Syn. Al'cahest t, Eng., Er. In alchemy, applied to several liquids formerly conceived to possess extraordinary solvent power; a liquor supposed to he capable of removing every kind of mor- bid obstruction (Paracelsus); a universal sol- vent and purifier (Van Helmont). Alkahest of Glau'ber.f Syn. Alkahest Glah- be"ri, L. Crude oil of tartar. Alkahest Respu'rii.f The filtered liquor ob- tained by digesting the powdered scoriae re- sulting from the detonation of a mixture of nitre and zinc filings. Alkahest Zwelfe"ri.f Acetic acid distilled from verdigris. ALKALES'CENT (-ent). Syn. Alkales'- CENS, L.; Alcalescent, Er. Slightly alka- line; tending to become alkaline. Hence, ALKALES'CENCE Or ALKALES'CENCY {alkales- cen'tia, L.; alcalescence, Er.), the tendency to become alkalescent, or the quality of being so. AL'KALI (-le; pL, al'kalies,-'^!^). [Eng., Ger., L. (indecl.); prim., Ar.] Syn. Alcali, Eng.f, Er. In familiar language, any sub- stance freely soluble in water, possessing caus- ticity, an acrid urinous taste, and antacid qualities; in chemistry, an electro-positive com- pound, capable of neutralising acids and com- bining with them in definite proportions, forming salts, and which, both alone and car- bonated, is freely soluble in water, and in either of these conditions, when fluid or in solu- tion, changes vegetable blues green and vege- table yellows brown. The principal alkalies are po tassa, soda, and ammonia. The first has been called vegetable alkali; the second, MINERAL ALKALI; and the third, volatile alkali ; distinctions now obsolete. Potassa and soda have also been called fixed alkalies, from their permanence in the fire; and am- monia was formerly termed alkaline air, because, when perfectly pure, it exists only in the state of gas. Lithia is another alkali, but it is of rare occurrence, and differs from those before noticed, in the difficult solubility of its carbonate, and in possessing some of the other properties of alkalinity in an inferior degree. The basic compounds frequently termed or- ganic or VEGETO-ALKALiES, and which more or less resemble the true alkalies in their behaviour with the acids, are conveniently and correctly considered as a distinct class of bodies, and treated of under the more appropriate name of Alkaloid. Baryta, lime, magnesia, and strontia, from their causticity, action on vegetable colours and some other qualities, have also been called alkalies; but they are distinguished from those bodies by their spar- ing solubility in water, and by the total insolu- bility of their carbonates in that menstruum. Later chemists have classed these substances under the title of alkaline earths. In com- merce, the term alkali is commonly applied to impure soda. Hist., dfc. The carbonated alkalies were known to the ancients. Caustic alkaline solu- tions appear to have been prepared by the earlier Greeks and Romans. The odour of ammonia is alluded to by Pliny (“ Hist. Nat.,” lib. hi., c. 46); who also informs us that soap was made in his time from tallow and wood- ashes, which must necessarily have been treated with quicklime, as at the present day {lib. xxviii., c. 51). Paulus .Slgineta, about the commencement of the seventh century, ex- plained the method of preparing a caustic lixivium. It was not, however, until the middle of the eighteenth century, that the chemical difference between the caustic al- kalies and their carbonates was shown by Dr. Black. Soon after this period, chemistry re- ceived a new impulse, researches multiplied, and hypotheses on the formation and constitu- tion of the various classes of bodies into which matter is divided, began to be more frequently elaborated and published. Scarcely had La- voisier declared oxygen to be the universal ‘ acidifying principle,’ than Guyton de Morveau conjectured hydrogen, from its antagonism to oxygen, and from its entering into the com- position of ammonia, to be the element which generates alkalinity. This, and a variety of other important details, are discussed in Lavoi- sier’s “ Elemens de Chimie” (Paris, 1789), and in other works and papers which appeared about that period. The incorrectness of the assumption of Morveau was afterwards demon- strated by Sir H. Davy, who, by means of a powerful galvanic apparatus, effected the de- composition of the alkalies and earths, and gave to the world an entirely new class of metals. (1807.) It was at once seen and ad- mitted that potassa and soda are actually the ‘oxides’ of the metals potassium and sodium. No particular substance can consequently be de- clared to possess the exclusive power of im- parting alkalinity; for whilst oxygen converts some of the metals into the most powerful alkalies, hydrogen by combining with nitrogen produces a scarcely inferior alkali, ammonia. It is, therefore, probably the mode in which the constituents are combined, and their re- lative proportions, rather than the nature of the constituents themselves, which determine the acid or alkaline condition. Dr. Murray conceived that both hydrogen and oxygen separately could generate alkalinity, but that a combination of the two was necessary to im- part this condition in a high degree. Accord- ing to the original views of Gay-Lussac, alka- linity is the result of the “ alkalifying pro- perty of the metal, and the acidifying property of the oxygen, modified both by combination and by the proportions.” This theory, like the previous one, is far from satisfactory, and is not borne out by the observed phenomena of chemistry; and hence, the subject still con- tinues to engage scientific research. C'lassif. The alkalies are commonly divided into three classes, according to their const! •