646 FIRES. on the ground, and roll the carpet round her, as before described; or if such a thing is not in the room, she should endeavour to extinguish the flames with her hands, and by rapidly rolling over and over on the floor. In this way the fire will be stifled, or at least the com- bustion will proceed so slowly that less per- sonal injury will be experienced before assist- ance arrives. The advantage of assuming the horizontal position is manifest from the fact, that fiine times out of ten it is the lower parts of the dresses of females that first catch fire.i The extinction of fires on board ships by means of carbonic acid gas was some years since suggested to the Admiralty by Mr, J. R. Hancorn. He proposes that a simple and eco- nomical apparatus should be attached to every decked vessel, capable of supplying this gas, which is a well-known non-supporter of com- bustion, and will extinguish fire at the very instant of coming in contact with the burning matter. Chalk with sulphuric acid diluted with water (vinegar, or any other acid will do) yields 44^ of the gas; hence, a ton of chalk, and a fourth part of that quantity of sulphuric acid, will be found sufficient to extin- guish any fire on board a ship. Mr. Hancorn also proposed this as a method of destroying vermin in ships, such as rats and cockroaches, for which purpose it is more easily applied and more effectual than that usually adopted. This plan was rejected by the Admiralty, from a fear that the destructive action of the gas might extend to the crew as well as the fire. But “ it surely is possible by mechanical means to expel the gas before again entering the ship^s hold. At any rate, the grand point would be obtained of extinguishing the fire— though the crew might have only the deck to stand on.” It is often difficult to get horses out of buildings on fire, but it is said that they will I readily come out if, after being blindfolded, 1 the saddle and bridle, or the harness, &c., to which they are accustomed, are thrown over them as usual. Fire Anni'hilator (Phillips’s). This is essen- tially a gaseous fire engine, which at any mo- ment can be made to discharge a stream of mixed gases and vapours having the power of checking combustion. When first introduced it was generally regarded as a most important invention, but it has not proved an effective substitute for the common water engine. For extinguishing fires on beard ship and in close apartments it is undoubtedly well adapted, but as a street engine it is compara- | tively useless, owing to the unmanageable na- ture of its fire-annihilating vapours. The composition with which the ‘ Fire Anni- hilator ’ is charged is a mixture of dried fer- Tocyanide of potassium, sugar, and chlorate of 1 For the mode of rendering muslin and oilier inflam- mable articles of ladies’ apparel fire-proof, see Ixcom- BL'STIBLE FaBKICS. potassa. It is set in action by a blow on a glass vessel containing oil of vitriol, which, being fractured, permits the acid to flow over the ‘ charge,’ when the anti-combustion gas is liberated, and rushes forth with great impe- tuosity. Fire-damp. See Hydeogen (Carbu- retted). Fire-en'gine. The common fire-engine is a compound forcing-pump, consisting of two ‘forcing-pumps’ placed on opposite sides of an ‘ air-vessel,’ with which both communi- cate. The ‘ fulcrum ’ of the ‘ lever ’ by which both pumps are worked is placed midway between them; consequently they act alter- nately in charging the air-vessel. In order to obtain a very forcible jet, it is necessary to prevent the escape of any portion of the con- tents of the air-vessel until the confined air is considerably compressed. The lever is con- nected with hand-rails on each side of the en- gine, and these are alternately raised and depressed by the workers. Engines worked by steam power are now common in London and most of our large towns. Fire-proofing. See Incombustibility, &c. Fire-works. See Pybotechny, and below. FIRES. (In pyrotechny.) Coloured fires may be termed, not inaptly, the chefs-d’oeuvre of the pyrotechnist’s art, since on their excel- lence the attractions of most other varieties of fire-works depend. The following forms, under judicious management, yield fires of remarkable beauty. Blue Fire. Prep. 1. From metallic anti- mony, 1 part; sulphur, 2 parts; nitre, 5 parts, 2. From realgar, 2 parts; charcoal, 3 parts; chlorate of potassa, 5 parts; sxdphur, 13 parts; nitrate of baryta, 77 parts. 3. (Mr. A. Bird.) Charcoal and orpiment, of each, 1 part; black sulphuret of antimony, [ 16 parts; xiitre, 48 parts ; sulphur, 64 parts. 4. (Fownes.) Tersulphuret of antimony, 1 part; sulphur, 2 parts; dry nitre, 6 parts. This is the composition used for the Bengal or blue signal light, employed at sea. 5. (Prof. Marchand.) Sulphur, sulphate oj \ potassa, and ammonio-sulphate of copper, ol i each, 15 parts; nitre, 27 parts; chlorate oJ I potassa, 28 parts. For theatrical illuminations This may be rendered either lighter or darkei j coloured, by lessening or increasing the quan- tities of the sulphate of potassa and ammonio- sulphate of copper. 6. (Light blue — Marchand.) Sulphur 16 parts; calcined alum, 23 parts; chlorate oj potassa, 61 parts. 7. (Daek blue — Marchand.) Calcines alum and carbonate of copper, of each, II parts; sulphur, 16 parts; chlorate of potassa 60 parts. 8. (Marsh.) Sulphate of copper, 7 parts sulphur, 24 parts; chlorate of potassa, Gt parts. 9. (Ruggieri.) A7/rc, 2 parts; sulphur zinc, of each, 3 parts; gunpowder, 4 parts.