FOOD. 662 herbs, 1 oz.; boiling water, pint j infuse as last. Resolvent Fomentation. Syn. Fottjs ee- SOLVENS, L. Prep. (Ricliard.) Fomentation of elder flowers, 8fl. oz.; liquor of diacetate of lead, ^ fl. dr.; mix. Used to discuss tu- mours, &c. Stim'ulant Fomentation. Syn. Fomentatio STIMULANS, L. Prep. 1. Sesquicarbonate of ammonia, 1 oz.; tincture of cantharides, 211. oz.; warm water, 1 pint. 2. Household mustard, 4 oz.; hot icater, 1^- pint; mix. Both the above are rubefacient and counter-irritant, and excellent in rheuma- tism, neuralgia, &c. Ver'mifuge Fomentation. Syn. Fomentatio teemieuga, Fotus anthelmintictts, L. Prep. Leaves fm(\.floivers of tansy, wormwood, and chamomile, of each, 3 oz.; ivater, 1 cjuart; boil to pint, and strain. Applied to the abdomen, &c., in worms. FOOD. Syn. CiEUS, Mateeia alimenta- EIA, L. Anything which feeds or promotes the natural growth of organic bodies, by sup- plying them with materials which, by assimi- lation, may he converted into the substances of which they are composed; or which, by its decomposition or slow combustion, maintains the temperature, or some other essential con- dition of life, at the proper standard. The numerous articles employed as food are all compounds; and in many cases they consist of mechanical mixtures or chemical combinations of two or more compounds. Organized matter, or that which has possessed either animal or vegetable life, or which has been produced by living organs, seems to be alone capable of assimilation, to any extent, by the animal system; and hence it is from the organic kingdom that our aliments are necessarily derived. Water, iron, earthy i^hosphates, chlo- ride of sodium, and other salts, which form the inorganic constituents of the body, though not of themselves nourishing, are also assimilated when taken in conjunction with organic ali- ments, and then contribute essentially to nutrition. In the animal and vegetable sub- stances employed as food, those inorganic com- pounds are provided in small but sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of the healthy body ; and in this state of combination alone can they be regarded in the light of ali- ments. A complete consideration of this sub- ject embraces, not only all the substances used as food, but also those things wLich when taken with them improve their flavour, pro- mote their digestion, and render them more wholesome and nutritive; and also their pre- paration for the table in its various relations with health and disease. The following ‘ bills op faee,’ for Avhich we are indebted chiefly to Soyer, Rundell, and others, exhibit the various articles in season at different periods of the year. Fiest quaetee. January.—Poultry and Game; Phefigffiits, partridges, hares, rabbits, woodcocks, snipes, turkeys, capons, pullets, fowls, chickens, and tame pigeons. — Fish: Carp, tench, perch, lampreys, eels, cray-fish, cod, soles, flounders, plaice, turbot, thornback, skate, sturgeon, smelts, wdiitings, lobsters, crabs, prawns, and oysters.— Vegetables: Cab- bage, savoys, colewort, sprouts, leeks, onions, beet, sorrel, chervil, endive, spinach, celery, garlic, scorzonera, potatoes, parsnips, turnips, broccoli (white and purple), shalots, lettuces, cresses, mustard, rape, salsafy, and herbs of all sorts (some dry and some green) ; cucum- bers, asparagus, and mushrooms are also to be had, though not in season.—Fruit; Apples, pears, nuts, walnuts, medlars, and grapes. February and March. — Meat, fowls, and game, as in January, with the addition of ducklings and chickens.—Fish : As the last two months. (Cod is not thought so good from February to July, although it is still sold at the fishmonger’s.)—Vegetables: The same as the previous months, Avith the addi- tion of kidney-beans.—Fruit: Apples, pears, and forced sti’aAvberries. Second quaetee. April, May, and June. —Meat; Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, and venison (in June).—Poultry : Pullets, fowls, chickens, ducklings, pigeons, rabbits, and leverets.— Fish: Ca,rp, tench, soles, smelts, eels, trout, turbot, lobsters, chub, salmon, herrings, cray- fish, mackerel, crabs, prawns, and shrimps.— Vegetables: As before; and in May, early potatoes and cabbages, peas, radishes, kidney- beans, carrots, turnips, cauliflowers, asparagus, artichokes, and numerous salads (forced).— Fruit: (in June), straAvberries, cherries,melons, green apricots, and currants and gooseberries for tarts; pears, grapes, nectarines, peaches, and some other fruit. Thied quaetee. July, August, and Sep- tember. — Meat, as before. — Poultry, ^c.: Pullets, foAvls, chickens, rabbits, pigeons, green geese, leverets, and turkey poults. Two former months, plovers and Avheat-ears; (in September), partridges, geese, &c.—Fish : Cod, haddock, flounders, plaice, skate, thornback, mullets, pike, carp, eels, shellfish (except oysters), and mackerel (during the first two months of the quarter, but they are not good in August).— Vegetables : Of all sorts, beans, peas. French-beans, &c.—Fruit: (In July), straAvberries, gooseberries, pine-apples, plums (various), cherries, apricots, raspberries, melons, currants, and damsons. (In August and Sep- tember), peaches, plums, figs, filberts, mulber- ries, cherries, apples, pears, nectarines, and grapes. (During the latter months), pines, melons, straAAberries, medlars, and quinces. (In September), Morelia cherries, damsons, and A'arious plums. Foueth quaetee. October, November, and December. — Meat, as before, and doe venison.—Poultry and Game : Domestic foAvls, as in first quarter; pheasants (from the 1st of October); partridges, larks, hares, dot-; terels; (at the end of the month), wild-ducks)"