515 DENTINE—DEPILATORY. j small portion that remains unwashed off is j rendered less conspicuous. Some persons eni- I ploy soluble substances as tooth-2>owders, which I are free from the above objection. Thus, sul- ' phate of potash and cream of tartar are used for this purpose, because of the grittiness of I their powders and their slight solubility in water. Phosphate of soda and common salt j are also frequently employed as dentifrices, i and possess the advantage of being readily i removed from the mouth by means of a little ! water. Among those substances that chemi- cally decolour and remove unpleasant odours, \ the only ones employed as dentifrices are I charcoal and the chlorides of lime and soda. The first has been already noticed; the others may be used by brushing the teeth with water, to which a very little of their solutions has been added. A very weak solution of chloride '• of lime is commonly employed by smokers to remove the odour and colour imparted by to- bacco to the teeth. Electuaries, made of honey and astringent substances, are frequently em- 1 ployed in diseases of the gums. The juice of i the common strawberry has been recommended as an elegant natural dentifrice, as it readily dissolves the tartareous incrustations on the I teeth, and imparts an agreeable odour to the I breath. See Paste and Powdee (Tooth), also Washes (Mouth). DENT'INE. The tissue of which the teeth are composed. DENTI"TI01T. See Teething. DEOB'STRUENT. In medicine, a substance which removes obstructions, and opens the natural passages of the fluids of the body, as the pores, lacteals, and glands. Iodine, mer- I cury, sarsaparilla, and aperients, are deob- I struents. i BEO'DOBIZEE. Any substance having the It power of destroying fetid effluvia. Chlorine, B chloride of lime, chloride of zinc, nitrate of lead, j sulphate of iron, freshly burnt charcoal, are i the most effective and convenient deodorizers. Peat charcoal has been highly recommended [ for deodorizing manure, &c., on the large scale. ; When it is mixed with these substances, their '; fetor is immediately destroyed, and a compost lij produced, which may be substituted for guano for agricultural purposes. See Disinfectant. DEOXIDATION. See Reduction. DEPIL'ATORY. A cosmetic employed to remove superfluous hairs from the human ! skin. Depilatories act either mechanically ' (mechanical depilatoeies), or chemically I (chemical depilatoeies). To the first class belong adhesive plasters, that, on their removal ' from the skin, bring away the hair with them. The second class includes all those substances which destroy the hair by their chemical action. Lime or orpiment, and generally both of them, have formed the leading ingredients in depilatories, both in ancient and modern times. The first acts by its well-known i causticity, and also, when an alkali is present. by reducing that also, either wholly or in part, to the caustic state. The action of the orpi- ment is of a less certain character, and its use is even dangerous when applied to a highly sensitive or an abraded surface. The addition of starch is to render the paste more adhesive and manageable. In using the following preparations, those which are in the state of powder are mixed up with a little warm water to the consistence of a paste, and applied to the part. Sometimes soap lye is used for this purpose, and some persons spread the pulpy mass on a piece of paper, and apply it like a plaster. In 12 or 15 minutes, and sooner, if much smarting ensues, the whole should be washed off with warm water, and a little cold cream, lip-salve, or spermaceti cerate, applied to the part. The application of the liquid preparations is gene- rally accompanied with gentle friction, care being taken to prevent them extending to the adjacent parts. All the following effect the object satisfactorily, with proper manage- ment ; but some are much more effective than others. A small wooden or bone knife is the best for mixing them with. They must all be kept in well-stoppered bottles, and no liquid must be added to them until shortly before their application; and then no more should be mixed than is required for imme- diate use. Arsen'ical Depilatory. Orpiment (sulphuret of arsenic) forms the principal ingredient in many fashionable depilatories, but its use is not free from danger. The following are well- known preparations:— 1. (Colley’s d.) From nitre and sulphur, of each, 1 part; orpiment, 3 parts; quicklime, 8 parts; soap lees, 32 parts; boil to the con- sistence of cream. Very caustic. 2. (Delceoix’s d. ; ^Poudee subtile.’) Orpiment, 1 oz.; quicklime, 10 oz.; starch, 14 oz. 3. (Oeiental d.; Oeiental eusma.)— a. Quicklime, 3 oz.; orpiment, ^ oz.; strong alkaline lye, 1 lb.; boil together in a clean iron vessel until a feather dipped into the liquor loses its flue. b. From pearlash, 2 oz.; orpiment, 3 dr.; liquor of potassa, ^ pint; boil together as before. One of the most caustic and conse- quently the most certain of depilatory prepa- rations ; but, with the rest of its class, open to the objections of containing orpiment. (See No. 7.) 4. (Paste d.; ‘Pate epilatoiee.’) To No. 1. add of orris root, 3 parts. 5. (Plence’s d.; ‘Pasta epilatoeia.’) Orpiment, 1 part; quicklime and starch, of each, 12 parts. 6. Soap d. ; ‘ Savon epilatoiee.’) Turk- ish depilatory and soft soap, equal parts. Must not be mixed until about to be applied. (See No. 7.) 7. (Tueeish d. ; Tueeish eusma.) Orpi- ment, 1 part; quicklime, 9 p.arts. For use, it