256 BALLS. ware-vessel, by the heat of a water hath, and when the mixture has cooled a little, add essential oil of almonds and expressed oil of mace, of each, 2 dr. ; stir assiduously until it begins to cool, and then pour it into the moulds, which may he ounce-gallipots with smooth bottoms (very slightly warmed), when it will form beautiful hemispherical cakes. Very fine. 2. Hard clarified suet, lb. ; white wax, 1 lb. ; ess. oil of almonds, 1^ dr. ; oil of cloves (or of pimento), \ dr. ; as before. Uses, itfc. To soften the skin, and, in winter, to prevent chaps and chilblains. Some- times these halls are coloured, which is done whilst the mixture is in the liquid state. A rich PINK or eed may be given by a little alkanet-root or dragon’s blood; a yellow, by palm oil or annotta ; a BLUE, by a little powdered indigo ; and a GEEEN, with spinage (steeped in the oil before use) or a few grains of verdigris. The most appropriate tint for them is a pale yellow or amber. Ash Balls. See page 233. Bareges' Balls (-razhe'). Syn. Boules de Baeeges, Fr. Prep. 1. Extract of soap-wort, 3 oz.; good glue or gelatine 1^ oz. ; water, 4 oz. ; dissolve, with heat, and add of sulphuret of lime, 6 oz. ; common salt, 1 oz. (both in powder) j mix thoroughly, and form the mass into balls weighing 2^ oz. each, adding a little powdered gum, if required, to thicken it, and Vi&m^ powdered starch to roll them in. 2. Gelatine, 8 oz. ; sulphuret of lime, 12 oz.; common salt, 2 oz.; water, q. s. ■, after solution and admixture, add carbonate of soda and Castile-soap, of each (in powder), 2^ oz. One ball is added to the water of a bath for an adult, to be used as a substitute for that of Bareges. Bitt'er Balls. Prep. 1. Powdered gentian, 2 lb. ; extract of gentian, 1 lb.; grains of pa- radise (ground), ^ lb. ; syrup, q. s.; mix with heat, and divide into half-pound rolls. For ALE. 2. To the above add of Spanish-juice, IJ lb.; previously softened with a little boiling water. For POETEE and stout. Both are used by fraudulent brewers; and by publicans in re- ducing their beer. Blacking Balls. Prep. 1. (Bailey’s.) Gum- tragacanth, 1 oz.; water, 4 oz.; dissolve, add of sugar candy, 4 oz. ; and afterwards, ivory- black and Prussian blue, (in very fine powder), of each, 2 oz. ; neat’s foot oil, 2 fi. oz.; thoroughly incorporate, and evaporate by a gentle heat, constantly stirring, until of a j)roper consistence, then pour it into oiled moulds. 2. Gum-arabic, moist sugar, and ivory-black, of each, ^ lb. ; lamp-black, -4 lb.; glue (melted with a little water), 2 oz.; water, 1 quart, or q. s.; neat’s-foot oil, ^ pint; as before.— Used by the shoemakers, harness-makers, &c., to blacken and polish leather. See Heel Balls. Breech'es Balls. See Scoueing Balls. Bronze Balls. See Copying Balls. Cam'phor Balls. Syn. Cam'phoe-cakes, Chap'-balls J, Chil'blain b.X, &c. ; Glob'uli camphoea'ti, Placen't.® camphoea't^, &c., L. Prep. 1. Spermaceti and while wax, of each, 2 oz. ; almond or olive oil, 4 pint; melt together by a gentle beat, add of camphor (in small pieces), 1 oz.; when dissolved, stir until partly cold, and then pour it into moulds, as directed under almond-cakes {above). 2. Clarified suet, 1 lb.; spermaceti and white wax, of each, 3 oz. ; camphor, 2 oz. ; as before. 3. Spermaceti cerate (Ph. L.), 1 lb.; sper- maceti, 2 oz.;' camphor. If oz. ; as before. 4. To either of the above add of balsam of Peru, f to f oz.; and, after solution, either strain the mixture through muslin, or allow it to settle, and decant the clear portion from the dregs. Use, ^c. A popular preventive of chapping and chilblains. A little is well rubbed into the skin, previously washed clean and wiped dry. Some persons add colour and scent; but they are generally sold without either. The only suitable colours are amber, pink, or yellow. The best perfumes are allspice, ambergris, cassia, cloves, musk, nutmeg, rondoletia, vanilla, and violets. See Almond cakes (ante). Clothes Balls. See Scoueing Balls. Contrayer'va Balls. Syn. La'pis contea- yee'v^, Glob'uli c., L. Compound contra- yerva-powder made into balls with gum-water. An obsolete preparation, once in great repute • as a stimulant, tonic, diaphoretic, and ab- sorbent. Cop'ying Balls. These have a similar com- position to ‘ heel-balls ’ (see below). For black, the best colouring matter is lamp-black or plumbago with about half\ts weight of indigo; for a BEONZE-COLOUE, bronze-powder is substi- tuted ; and for a mellow beown, burnt terra di Sienna. These should be all in very fine powder. The semi-fluid mass is poured into small flat cylindrical moulds—paper pill-boxes answer the purpose well.— Used by artists and amateurs to copy inscriptions, monumental brasses, and other slightly raised or sunken patterns; the ball being rubbed over the paper previously laid flat on the design, and held securely in its place. They are sometimes rendered more permanent by damping the wrong side with a sponge dipped in water, strong spirit, or oil of turpentine; or by passing the wrong side over a hot iron held with the face upwards. Cosmet'ic Balls. See Savonettes, &c. (also above). Cream Balls. See Savonettes, Soap Balls, &c. Dog Balls. See Dogs. Gas'coign’s Balls. Syn. Glob'uli GaS- COIg'nii, L. Gascoign’s powder made up into small balls with thin mucilage. See Powdees. Heel Balls. Prep. 1. (Ullathorne’s.) Bees’ wax, 1 lb.; suet, 4 oz. ; melt together, and stir I