817 LACTIC FERMENTATION—LACTUCIN. 1 of the gastric juice, and from its power of 1 dissolving a considerable quantity of phos- I phate of lime, it appears very probable that it I may prove beneficial in the above complaints. ! Dose. 1 to 5 gr.; in the form of lozenges, or ' solution in sweetened water, i LACTIC FERMENTATION. The peculiar change by which saccharine matter is con- I verted into lactic acid. Nitrogenous sub- I stances which in an advanced state of putre- i factive change act as alcohol-ferments often I possess, at certain periods of their decay, the property of inducing an acid fermentation in j sugar, by which that substance is changed into lactic acid. Thus, the nitrogenized matter of I malt, when suffered to putrefy in water for a few days only, acquires the power of acidifying the sugar which accompanies it; whilst in a I more advanced state of decomposition it con- I verts, under similar circumstances, the sugar into alcohol. The gluten of grain behaves in the same manner. Wheat flour, made into a j paste with water, and left for four or five I days in a warm situation, becomes a true lactic I acid ferment; but if left a day or two longer, it changes its character, and then acts like I common yeast, occasioning the ordinary pa- I NAEY or VINOUS PEEMENTATION. Moist I animal membranes, in a slightly decaying coii- ; dition, often act energetically in developing lactic acid. The rennet employed in the manufacture of cheese furnishes a well-known example of this class of substances. In preparing lactid acid from milk, the acid ; formed, after a time, coagulates and renders i insoluble the caseine, and the production of j the acid ceases. By carefully neutralizing the free acid by carbonate of soda, the caseine I becomes soluble, and, resuming its activity, I changes a fresh quantity of sugar into lactic I acid, which may be also neutralized, and by a sufficient number of repetitions of this pro- cess all the sugar of milk present may, in time, be acidified. This is the rationale of I the common process by which lactic acid is obtained. Cane-sugar (probably by previously becoming grape-sugar) and the sugar of milk both yield lactic acid; the latter, however, most readily, the grape-sugar having a strong 1 tendency towards the alcoholic fermentation. If the lactic fermentation is allowed to pro- ceed too far, the second stage of the process of transmutation commences, hydrogen gas and j carbonic acid gas are evolved, and the butyeic I PEEMENTATION, by which oily acids are formed, j is established. I LACTIDE. See Lactic Acid. j LACTIN. See Sugae op Milk. I ^ LACTOMETER. Syn. Galactometee. An j instrument for ascertaining the quality of milk, j The best way of testing milk is to place it in a 1 graduated tube or lactometer, and to allow ! it to remain until all the cream has separated, : then to decant off the clear whey, and to take its specific gravity ; ’the result of the two ope- j rations, when compared with the known quan- tity of cream and the density of the whey of an average sample of milk, gives the value of the sample tested. A little instrument called a ‘ milk tester’ is sold in London at a low price. It is essen- tially a hydrometer which sinks to a given mark on the stem in pure water, and floats at another mark at the opposite end of the scale in pure milk. The intermediate space indi- cates the quantity of water (if any) employed to adulterate the article. As the sp. gr. of pure milk varies, the indications of the ‘ tester* cannot be depended on. LACTONE. A colourless volatile liquid, boil- ing at 198° Fahr., formed with lactide and other products, when lactide acid is submitted to a heat sufficient for its decomposition. See Lactic Acid. LACTOSE. See Sugae op Milk. LACTUCA"RIUM. Syn. Lettuce opium, Theidace; Lactucaeium (Ph. E. & D.). The inspissated milky juice of the Lactuca sativa (common garden lettuce), or the Lac- tuca virosa (strong-scented wild lettuce), ob- tained, by incision, from the flowering stems, and dried in the air. The latter species yields by far the greater quantity. M. Arnaud, of Nancy, adopts the following method of pro- curing this substance, which appears to be the most productive and simple of any yet pub- lished :—Before the development of the lateral branches, the stems of twelve plants are cut, one after another, a little below the com- mencement of these branches; returning to the first one, a milky exudation is found on the cut portion, and on that which remains fixed in the earth; this milky exudation is adroitly collected with the end of the finger (or with a bone knife), which is afterwards scraped on the edge of a small glass; the same operation Is performed on twelve other heads, and so on; on the third day it is repeated on every portion of the plant remaining in the ground, a thin slice being first cut off the top; this is done every day until the root is reached. As soon as the lactucarium is collected, it coagu- lates ; the harvest of each day is divided into small pieces, which are placed on plates, very near each other, but without touching, and allowed to dry for two days, after which they are set aside in a bottle. In this way 15 or 20 times the ordinary product is obtained. Prop., 8fc. Lactucarium is anodyne, hyp- notic, antispasmodic, and sedative, allaying pain and diminishing the force of the circula- tion. It has been recommended in cases in which opium is inadmissible, and has been ad- ministered with advantage in chronic rheuma- tism, colic, diarrhoea, asthma, the troublesome cough of phthisis, the irritability and watch- fulness in febrile disorders, &c. Dose. 2 to 5 gr.; made into pills, lozenges, or tincture. LACTU'CIN. Syn. Lactucinum, L. This is the active principle of lactucarium, and is found in the juice of several species of lettuce. Prep. Exhaust lactucarium with hot recti- 52