WATER. 1324 out residue, or even leaving a stain behind. The purest natural water is that obtained by melting snow or frozen rain, that has fallen at some distance from any town. Absolutely pure water can only be obtained by the union of its gaseops constituents; but very pure water, sufficiently so for all chemical and phi- losophical purposes, may be procured by the careful distillation of common water. . Tests. 1. If a precipitate is formed, or a ‘ fur’ or ‘ crust’ deposited on the vessel during ebullition, it indicates the presence of caebo- NATE OF LIME.—2. The residuum, if any, of evaporation, is impurity; if it be OEOANIC MATTEE, smoke and a peculiar odour will be evolved, as the residue becomes dry and charred.—3. If a solution of protosulphate of iron, when added to the w^ter contained in a stoppered phial, occasions a reddish-brown pre- cipitate after a few days, the presence of, oxy- gen is indicated.—4., Neither litmus, syrup of violets, nor turmerw, are discoloured or affected when moistened with pure water; if t the first two are reddened, it indicates an acid ; if the last is turned- brown, an: alkali.—5. If a milkiness follows the addition of lime water before and not after the water has been boiled, it contains CAEBONic ACID.—6. Chloride of barium occasions a white precipitate, insoluble in nitric acid, in water containing sulphtjeic ACID (usually in', the state of sulphate of lime),-:—7. Oxalate of ammonia produces a white precipitate in'water, containing cae- BONATE or SULPHATE OF LIME.—8. Nitrate of silver occasions a cloudy white precipitate, insoluble in nitric acid, but soluble in ammo- nia, in water containing chloeine or chlo- EiDES,—9. Phosphate of soda and ammonia (microcosmic salt), added to water that has been boiled, and precipitated by oxalic acid (if required), produces, in a few hours, a white precipitate, if the water contains magnesia.— 10. Tincture or infusion of galls turns water containing ieon black } when this takes place, both before and after the water has been boiled, the metal is present under the form of sul.. PHATE OF IEON; but if it only occurs before boiling, then caebonate of ieon may be sus- pected, and will be precipitated as a reddish powder by exposure and heat,—II. Ferro- cyanide of potassium gives a blue precipitate in water containing a sesquisalt of ieon, and a white one, turning blue by exposure to the air, in water containing a peotosalt of ieon, —12. Sulphuretted hydrogen and the hydro- sulphurets give a brown or black precipitate in water containing coppee, ieon, or lead; and a yellow precipitate in water containing AESENIC, or its compounds.—13. Soap, or a solution of soap in proof spirit, mixes easily and perfectly with pure water, but is curdled and precipitated in water con- taining CAEBONATES, CHLOEIDES, Or SUL- PHATES.—14. {Prof Clark's Soap Test.) Take of the finest white soap, 1 dr.; proof spirit, 1 pint; dissolve, and so adjust the strength (if not already so) that exactly 32 measures are required to be added to 100 measures of the standard solution of chloride of calcium (see below), before a lather can be produced. Every measure of this test-solution required to produce this effect on 100 measures of any sample of water under examination, represents i gr. of CAEBONATE OF LIME, or of ‘ Aflrd- nes^ ; 2 measures equal 1° of * hardness,' or 1 gr. of carbonate per gall.—The ^standard solution of chloride of calcium' is formed by carefully dissolving % gr. of pure carbonate of lime in a little pure hydrochloric acid, evapo- rating the solution t6 dryness, and dissolving the residuum in 1 pint of pure water. This forms the standard solution of 16 degrees of hardness. 1 measure of this solution, mixed with 15 measures of distilled water, consti- tutes a solution of 1® of hardness; and so on up to 16“. See Alkalimetey. . Purif Pure water is incapable of putre- faction, but > ordinary .water contains a small quantity of organic matter in solution, which speedily undergoes decomposition, even in closed vessels. This is especially the case with water kepc in wooden casks, or in open cisterns into which leaves and insects are driven by the wind. Putrescent water is highly unwhole- some as a beverage; and it is a fact, clearly demonstrated by the returns of the Registrar- General, that ^e last visitations of cholera corresponded in severity to the impurity of the water supplied to the respective districts. Among the methods adopted for purifying foul water are the following:—1. Filtration through, or agitation with, coarsely powdered freshly burnt charcoal, either animal or vege- table, but preferably the former. This re- moves both mechanically suspended matter and the calcareous and gaseous impurities held in solution.—2. Free exposure to the action of the air, by which the organic matters become oxidized and insoluble, and speedily subside. This may be easily effected by agi- tating the water in contact with fresh air, or by forcing air through it by means of bellows. —3. The addition of a little sulphuric add has a like effect; 15 or 20 drops are usually suffi- cient for a gallon. This addition may be advantageously made to water intended for filtration through charcoal, by which plan at least § of the latter may be saved. (Lowitz.)— 4. An ounce of powdered alum (dissolved), well agitated with a hogshead or more of foul water, will purify it in the course of a few hours, when the clear portion may be de- canted. When the water is very putrid, about ^ dr. (or even 1 dr^ per gall.) may be em- ployed ; any alum that may be left in solution may be precipitated by the cautious addition of an eqiiiv. proportion of carbonate of soda.— 5. A solution of red sulphate or sesquisulphate of iron acts in the same way as alum; a few drops are sufficient for a gallon.—6. Agitation with about the i- to Ig of finely powdered black oxide of manganese has a similar effect