BARYTA. 272 Uses, Chiefly as a chemical test, and to form some of the harytic salts. Ac'etate of Baryta (as'-). Syn. Baey't.® ace'- TAS, L. Prep. From dilute sulphuric acid, neutralised with carbonate of baryta, and the solution evaporated and crystallised. Very soluble in water; insoluble or nearly so in rec- tified spirit.—Usi’s, dose, <j'c. Same as the mu- riate. It is seldom employed. Acon'itate of Baryta. Syn. Pyrocit'eate OE BARYTA. Prep. Similar to the last. A nearly insoluble gelatinous mass. Allox'anate of Baryta. See Alloxanic Acid.— Used to form salts. Antimo"niate of Baryta. Insoluble. See Baryta {above). An'timonite of Baryta. Very slightly soluble. See Baryta. Arse"niate of Baryta. Sijn. Baey't^ ar- Se"xias^ L. Prep. A solution of chloride of barium is added to another of arseniate of po- tassa or soda, and the ‘precipitate’ collected, washed, and dried. By dissolving this salt in a solution of arsenic acid, and crystallising, Bi]srARSE"NiATE OE BARYTA is obtained. Has been recommended in certain skin diseases, and in phthisis complicated with scrofula.— Dose. T5 to i gr. Ar'senite of Baryta. Syn. Bary t^ ae'- SENis, L. Very slightly soluble.—f/se, (Sfc. As the last. Ben'zoate of Baryta. Only sparingly soluble in cold water. Se(; Baryta {above). Bo"rate of Baryta. Very sparingly soluble. See Baryta. Bro'mate of Baryta. See Baryta and Bromate. Bu'tyrate of Baryta. Very soluble in water; slightly so in alcohol. See Butyric Acid. Car'bonate of Baryta. Syn .Bary't.e car'- BONAS (Ph. E. & D., & Ph. L. 1836), L.; Car- bonate DE BARYTE, &C-, Fr. ; KOHLENSAURES baryt, &c., Ger. A heavy white mass or powder, very nearly insoluble in water, and decomposed by nearly all the acids. It is found in the crude state abundantly in nature (see Baryta, above), but can only be obtained abso- lutely pure, by adding an alkoline carbonate to a solution of chloride of barium, or by saturating baryta-water with carbonic acid, and in either case washing and drying the precipitate. Native carbonate of baryta (‘ witherite ’) is ordered in the pharmacopoeias, and is suffi- ciently pure for making the barytic salts, the only purpose to which it is therein applied. iomp., (Sre. Baryta, 77‘9g; carbonic acid, 22-15. (Berz.) Sp. Gr. (Native.) 4’3. Pur. “ Totally soluble in dilute hydrochloric acid. This solution remains colourless, and is not precipitated by ammonia or by hydro- sulphuric acid. More sulphuric acid being added than is necessary for saturation, nothing is afterwards thrown down by carbonate of soda.” (Ph. L. 1836.) “ 100 gr. dissolved in an excess of nitric acid are not entirely precipitated on the addi- tion of 124 gr. of crystallised sulphate of mag- , | nesia.” (Ph. E.) Uses. In pharmacy, S^c., chiefly to prepare ba- 11 ry tic salts. In chemistry, to separate certain me- 1 tallic oxides when occurring together in solu- , - tions. In the arts, as a base for certain deli- cate colours, as an ingredient in plate-glass, in the manufacture of beet-sugar, &c. It is ; not used in medicine. It is extremely poisonous. See Barium, Baryta, &c. Chlo”rate of Baryta. Syn. Bary'tj3 ciilo"- eas, L. Prep. 1. From a solution of chloric acid neutralised with -precipitated car- bonate of barxjta ; the resulting solution, after filtration, being crystallised by evaporation. 2. (Wheeler’s process.) Digest, for a few minutes, a concentrated solution of chlorate of potassa with silicated hydrofluoric acid, in slight excess. A precipitate of double elu'o- RIDE OE SIL'ICON AND POTAS"SIUM SUbsideS, i and chlo”ric acid remains in solution. By filtering, neutralising with carbonate of baryta, i and again filtering, prismatic crystals of chlo- rate OF BARYTA may be obtained by cautious evaporation. 3. By passing chlorine through strong milk of hydrate or of carbonate of baryta, in the same way as in making chlorate of potassa. Prop., Sfc. Soluble in 4 parts of cold water.— Used in pyrotechny, and to make chloric acid. Chro'mate of Baryta. Prep. See Baryta, Chromate, Chromic Acid, &c. It is almost insoluble. Cit'rate of Baryta. See Baryta, Citrate, &c. Very slightly and difficultly soluble. Hy'drate of Baryta. Syn. Bary't^ hy'- DRAS, L. Prep. 1. From caustic baryta sprinkled with water, in a covered vessel, and when it falls into powder, at once bottled. 2. (Pure.) From ‘ crystals of baryta’ gently heated in a covered capsule or crucible of alu- minium, silver, or platinum, until the water _ of crystallisation is completely expelled; the ' residual white spongy mass being either broken into fragments or pulverised, and preserved in a well-closed bottle. 3. Crystallised :—a. See Baryta. b. From a concentrated solution of either nitrate of baryta, or chloride of barium, preci- pitated with a rather strong solution of pure potassa, or of pure soda, perfectly free from carbonic acid. c. A strong solution of sulphuret of barium is boiled with successive portions of black oxide of copper, until it ceases to give a black preci- pitate with a salt of lead; the liquid, after filtration, yields crystals of the hydrate on cooling. Prop., uses, 8(c. These are, in part, noticed under ‘ baryta.’ The ‘ crystallised hydrate ’ is converted into the ‘ ordinary hydrate ’ at a gentle heat; and this last fuses at a low red-heat without losing its water of hydration, which it only slowiy and with difficulty begins to part with at higher temperatures. In che- mistry, its uses are, for the most part, similar