968 OILS (MIXED). taken; a catLartic being given every third day. Fnr'niture Oil. Syn. Mahogany oil. Oil STAIN. Prep. 1. From refined linseed oil, 1 pint; alkanet root, i oz.; digested together in a warm place until the former is sufficiently coloured, when it is poured off and strained. 2. Pale boiled oil, 1 pint; bees' wax, i lb.; melted together, and coloured as before. Gives a superior polish, which becomes very tough by age. 3. Linseed or boiled oil, 1 pint; Venice tur- pentine (pure), 6 oz.; as before. The above are used for mahogany and other dark-coloured woods. 4. (Pale.)—a. As the preceding, omitting the alkanet. b. From nut oil, | pint; bees' wax (finest), 3 oz.; melted together. c. To the last, add of copal varnish, 3 or 4 oz. The last three are employed for pale woods. They are all applied by means of a rag, and are ‘ polished off ’ with a ‘ woollen rubber ’ or ‘ furniture-brush.^ A little strong vinegar, or 2k few drops of hydrochloric acid, are sometimes added. See Polish. Hair Oil. See Oil (Perfumed). Oil and Hartshorn. Liniment of ammonia. I'ron Oil. Syn. Olehm feeri, 0. maetis, L, The old name for the liquid formed when sesquichloride of iron is allowed to deliquesce by free exposure to the air. It is excessively caustic and corrosive. Lime Oil. See Calcium (Chloride). Macas'sar Oil. Se^OiLS (Perfumed). Mar'row Oil. Prep. From clarified beef- marrow, 1 part; oil of almonds, 3 parts; melted together, and strained through muslin. It is usually scented with ambergris, cassia, or mace, and slightly tinged with palm oil cr annotta. Used for the hair. Marshall’s Oils. Prep. From linseed oil and rape oil, of each, 1 lb.; green oil and oil of turpentine, of each, ^ lb.; oil of origanum, ^ fl. oz.; oil of vitriol, ^ oz.; well shaken to- gether. Mixed Oils. Syn. Oleum mixtum com- mune, L. Prep. From linseed oil and green oil, of each, 1 lb.; oil of turpentine, i lb.; Barbadoes tar and balsam of sulphur, of each, 2 oz.; oils of spike and origanum, of each, 1 oz. Stimulant and rubefacient. Used by farriers for sprains, &c. See Stamford’s Oils {below). Newmarket Oils. Prep. From oils of lin- seed, turpentine, and St. John's wort, of each, 3 lb.; oil of vitriol, li oz.; well shaken to- gether, and the clear portion decanted in a few days. A favourite remedy for sprains in horses. Nine Oils. Syn. Old mixed oils ; Oleum EX OMNIBUS, L. Prep. From train oil, 1 gall.; oil of turpentine, 1 quart; oil of amber and oil of bricks, of each, 5 oz.; oil of spike and oil of origanum, of each, 2 oz. ; Barbadoes tar, 2^ lb.; oil of vitriol, 2 oz.; camphorated spirit, ^ pint; mixed together as the last. A favourite remedy with provincial farriers. Oil of Petre. See British Oil {above). Phos'phorated Oil. Syn. Oleum phospho- RATUM, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. Bor.) Phosphorus (dried and sliced small), 6 gr.; oil of almonds, 1 oz.; mix, place the phial in hot water, agitate for some time, and when cold, decant the clear oil from the undissolved phosphorus. 2. (Magendie.) Phosphorus (sliced), ^ dr.; almond oil, 1 oz.; macerate in the dark, with frequent agitation, for 14 days, then, after repose, decant the clear portion, and aromatize it with a little essence of bergamotte. Obs. A fl. oz. of oil dissolves rather less than 5 gr. of pure phosphorus. The large excess ordered in the second formula must be merely for the purpose of increasing the extent of surface acted on. It is, however, with the other precautions given, quite unnecessary. The products of both formulae have the same strength. Dose. 5 to 10 or 12 drops, in milk, barley water, or gruel, or made into an emul- sion; in chronic rheumatism, gout, &c., and as a powerful, diffusible stimulant in various diseases with debility and general prostration of the vital powers, &c. Externally, as a friction. It is chiefly to the presence of phos- phorus that cod-liver oil owes its wonderful remedial power in these affections. Quit'ter Oil. Prep, 1. Red precipitate, 2 dr.; aquafortis, 1 oz.; dissolve, add of olive oil, oil of turpentine, and rectified spirit, of each, 2 oz. ,* and agitate well and frequently for 3 or 4 hours. 2. Ointment of nitrate of mercury (Ph. L,), 1 part; nut oil, 3 parts; melt together, and stir until the mixture is cold. Used by farriers for quitters, &c. Radley’s Oils. From Barbadoes tar, \ lb.; linseed oil and oil of turpentine, of each, i pint; gently warmed, and shaken together. Sha'ving Oil. See Essence of Soap. Sheldrake’s Oil. Prep. From pale boiled nut oil and copal varnish, equal parts, melted together by the heat of hot water, and, when perfectly mixed, placed aside in a bottle for a Week to settle, after which the clear portion is decanted. Used by artists to grind their colours in, to brighten them. Oil of Spike. 1. (Farrier’s.) From otVo/’^wr- pentine, 1 quart; Barbadoes tar, Ig oz.; alkanet root, f oz. ; digested together for a week. Used as a stimulating liniment by farriers. 2. (Painter’s.)—fl. From rectified oil of turpentine, 3 pints; oil of lavender, 1 pint; mix. b. Oil of turpentine (warm), 5 parts; lavender oil bottoms (genuine), 3 parts; agitate well together, and in a fortnight decant the clear portion. Used by artists and enamellers. Stamford’s Oils. Syn. Lord Stamford’s MIXED OILS. Prep. Dissolve camphor, 1 oz., in rectified spirit of wine, ^ pint; add, oil of origanum, 2 oz.; oil of turpentine, ^ pint;