BALEEN- BALLOON. 253 early decay of the hair. The natural baldness of the aged, and frequently the premature baldness of earlier years, arises from the gradual attenuation of the scalp, which ulti- mately becomes too thin to afford room for I the performance of the functions of the hair- producing organs, and too scantily supplied I with blood for their due nutrition and support.^ Since the introduction of waterproof cloth- ing and silk-hats, and the very general use of ' tobacco by the juvenile portion of the popiila- tion, baldness has become so common among our young men, as to cease to attract notice. These articles act as prejudicially on the hair, 1 as white bread and alum do on the teeth. I Treatm. The baldness of senility and that I arising from the permanent injury or destruc- I tion of the hair-bulbs admit of no cure, not- withstanding the daily assurances of adver- ] tising impostors to the contrary. In other \ cases, when a disposition to baldness exists, shewn by the hair falling off in large quanti- ties, or ceasing to grow with its usual vigour and rapidity, the frequent, hut gentle use of I the hair-brush, and of any bland stimulating ; oil, pommade, or wash, if adopted in time, will generally prove sufficient to arrest the progress of decay, and very frequently, to restore the I hair to its pristine condition. The head may j he advantageously washed in cold water at least once a day ; or what is better, a shower bath may be taken on rising in the morning. Should this plan not succeed, the head, or the ; upper part of it, may he shaved, and a wig, or i a scalp, adopted for a time. The efiect of keep- ing the hair closely cropped or shqved is to make it grow thicker, stiffer, and stronger, I and this often when all other means fail. Among more active and less common reme- dies for baldness may be mentioned—mild ® streaming electricity, stimulant fomentations, cantharidised, ioduretted, phosphuretied, &c., oils and lotions, a night-cap that, without pressing injuriously on the head, lifts, as it ! were, the scalp into its natural position, &c., &c., all of which are noticed elsewhere. The celebrated John Wesley recommends rubbing the part morning and evening with a raw onion until it becomes red, and then ap- plying a little honey. (“ Primitive PhysP) The vendors of Eowland’s ' Macassar oil ^ recommend the head to be rubbed with a towel (or hair-brush), until somewhat red, each time before applying their nostrum; and the advice is certainly good, as independent of the stimulus thus given to the skin, and the 1 In siicli cases it will 1)c found that, owing to this attenuation, the scalp covers a larger portion of the skull I than previously; and that its sides have somewhat receded fj'om the top of the head, so that the roots of the remaining hair descend lower towards the foreliead, temples, and hack of the neck, than when the parts were in vigorous health. This may be perceived by applying the open hand to the part, and then gently closing the fingers, when the scalp may be drawn into its original position, and will then appear loose and wrinkled over the occiput, &c. ; and this in a manner very different to what occurs when the top of the head is covei’ed, or well-covered, with hair. increased flow of blood through the minute vessels of the scalp, it is rendered more ab- sorbent and sensitive to the action of medi- caments. At the same time the reader must be cautioned against placing any reliance on external applications, unless he assists their action by due attention to diet, exercise, ven- tilation, and such other matters as tend to pro- mote the general health and vigour of the body. The substances usually employed to medicate hair-cosmetics, the general management of the hair, and the formulae for various applications to promote its growth, preservation, and beauty, are noticed in the articles Haie, Haie-cos- metics, PoMMADES, Oils, Washes, &c., to which the reader is referred. BALEEN'(-lene'). \Yx. baleine.'] The Asher’s name for whalebone. BALEN'IC ACID. A fatty acid, possessing no practical interest. Its salts are termed bale'- NATES. BALL (bawl). [Eng., Ger., Swed.] Syn. Balle, Bottle, Fr.; Bal, Bol, Dan. j Glob'ij- LUS, Pi'LA, L. Any body more or less round or spherical. In commerce, farriery, per- fumery, ^-c., applied to various substances made up into a globular, spheroidal, or even a cylindrical form ; as ash-balls, horse-balls, soap- balls, Sfc. In sports and gymnastics, a round thing to play with. Ball-playing was a favourite game among the ancients, who had their hand-ball, foot- ball, tennis-ball, and some other varieties not used at the present day. {“ Sue. Vesp.f 20.) In the middle ages there were houses appro- priated to ball-playing; and in Italy public establishments of this kind are even now not uncommon,^ There is a spliceriste”rhim or ten'nis-court still kept up in London, near the back of the National Gallery. Of play-balls—BouNCE'-BALLSare commonly made of list twisted round a piece of cork or India-rubber, and, for temporary purposes, of size; hollow spheres of stout gutta-percha, as manufactured by the company, are also ex- cellent:—ceick'et-balls, of hardleather^xm\.y sewn together and weighted, or of vulcanised India rubber or gutta percha :—foot'-balls, of a bullock’s bladder enclosed in a case of stout leather; or better, of a hollow sphere of vul- canised rubber fllled with slightly compressed air;—tot'-balls, of soft stuffed with bran or cotton. See Balls (infra). BALLOON' (-loon'). Syn. Ballon, Fr., Ger. Any hollow spherical body of which the sides are extremely thin or attenuated in comparison with its diameter or bulk. In aerostatics, a machine or apparatus for elevating and sus- taining bodies in the air. In chemistry, a globular glass-receiver, with either one or two necks (= geos eecipient, Fr.; geosse e., Ger.). In pyrotechny, a hollow case or ball of pasteboard filled with fire-works or com- bustibles, which explodes in the air on being fired from a mortar. 2 Braude’s “Diet, of Lit., Sci. j- Art.”