CERASINE—CERATE. 414 along with margarlc acid when iees’ ivax is treated with caustic poiassa. CER'ASINE. Si/7i. Peun'ine. The insoluble portion of cherry-tree gum. It is identical with bassorine. Dr. John applies the term to all those gums which, like tragacanth, swell, but do not dissolve in water. See Bassoeine. CE'RATE. Syn. Ceea'tum, L. A thick species of ointment containing wax. Cerates are intermediate in consistence between oint- ments and plasters; but are less frequently employed than either of those preparations. The medicinal ingredients which enter into the cerates are very numerous; indeed, almost every kind of medicine capable of exercising a topical effect may be prescribed in this form. It is a general custom with the druggists to use a less quantity of wax for their cerates than that which is necessary to give them a proper consistence, qnd in many cases it is omitted altogether, and its place supplied by hai'd suet or stearine, and frequently by com- mon resin. Lard is also very generally sub- stituted for olive oil. Indeed, in no class of pharmaceutical preparations are the instruc- tions of practitioners and the colleges more commonly disregarded. The operation of melting the ingredients should be performed in a water lath or steam hath, and the liquid mass should be assiduously stirred until cold. All the medicated cerates may be prepared by adding the active ingredients, in the form of fine powder, soft extract, solution, &c., as the case may be, to either simple cerate or spermaceti cerate, in the proportions indicated under the head of Boses ” appended to every article of importance noticed in this work. Tlie mixture, which must be complete, may be effected by working the articles together on a marble or glass slab or tile, or, still better, by trituration in a clean wedgewood mortar. In some cases the simple cerate is melted by a gentle heat, and the whole stirred or triturated until nearly solid; in others, digestion with heat is employed. Cerate. Syn. Sim'ple ceeate, Simple DEES'SING; CeEATUM (Pll. L.), C. SIM'PLEX (Ph. L. 1824). Prep (Ph. L.) Yellow wax, 20 oz.; melt by a gentle heat; add olive oil, 1 pint; and stir until it begins to solidify. Used as a simple emollient dressing. The corresponding preparations of the other col- leges will be found noticed under Ointments. The ceratum simplex of the Ph. E. is spee- 3IACETI CEEATE. Ac'etate of Lead Cerate. Syn. Ce'eate op SUGAE OP LEAD ; CeEA'TUM PLUM'bI ACETA'TIS (Ph. L.), L. Prep. (Ph. L.) White wax, 5 oz. ; olive oil, 18fl. oz.; melt together; add, acetate of lead (in fine powder), 5 dr., previously tri- turated with olive oil, 2 fl. oz., and stir till they unite (begin to solidify). Used as a cooling dressing to burns, excoriations, and inflamed sores. Ammoni'acal Cerate. Syn. Ceea'tum am- moniaca'le, L. Prep. (Rechoux.) Simple cerate, 1 oz.; carbonate of amyno7iia, 1 dr.; mix. As a counter-irritant in croup, &c. Arsenical Cerate. Syn. Ceea'tum Aesen'- ICI, C. A'CIDI AESENIO'SI, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. U. S.) Arsenious acid (in very fine powder), 20 gr.; simple cerate, 1 oz. 2. (Sir. A. Cooper.) Arsenious acid and sublimed sulphur, of each, 1 dr.; spermaceti i cerate, 1 oz. The above ingredients must be very carefully triturated together. The first is used as a dressing to cancerous sores; the second is applied on lint as a caustic in like cases. Belladonn'a Cerate. Syn. Ceeate of DEADLY nightshade ; CeEA'tUM BELLA- donn'jE, L. Prep. 1. (W. Cooley.) Extract ! of belladonna, 3 dr.; simple cerate, 1 oz.; olive oil, 1 dr.; triturate together in a warm mortar, until nearly cold. Used in frictions to indolent tumours. 2. (Compound; C. B. COMPOS'ITUM, L.) Pi'ep. (W. Cooley.) Belladonna cerate, 1 oz.; iodide of gold, 12 gr.; carefully triturated to- gether. Used as a friction to scrofulous and syphilitic tumours, and to remove syphilitic and rheumatic pains. A most active and excellent preparation. Brown Cerate. See Plastees. Caca'o Cerate. Syn. Caca'o pommade. Prep. Butter of cacao, white wax, and oil of almonds, equal parts, melted together and strained. Used as a cosmetic for chapped hands and lips, &c. Cal'amine Cerate. Syn. Tuenee’s ceeate. Healing salve ; Ceeatum calami'na3 (Ph. L. & E.), C. LA'pis calamina'eis (Ph. L. 1788), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Yellow wax, oz.; olive oil, 1 pint; melt together, re- move the vessel from the fire, and when they j first begin to thicken, add prepared calamine, 7i oz., and stir constantly until they cool. 2. (P. E.) Prepared calainine, 1 part; simple cerate (Ph. E.), 5 parts; mix. 3. (Ph. D.) See Ointment. j 4. (Commercial.) Hard suet, 5 lb.; lard, | 3 lb.; melt, and sift in, gradually, calamine, j 4 lb. / agitate well for a few minutes, or until the whole is perfectly mixed, and after one i minute’s repose, pour it off into another vessel, the coarse sediment that has fallen to the bottom being carefully avoided; lastly, stir assiduously, until it is nearly cold. This forms the Tuenee’s ceeate of the wholesale druggists. In many cases nothing but lard and calamine are used. Uses, Sfc. When honestly prepared with genuine calamine, it is a most valuable desic- cant and astringent application to excoriations, ulcers, burns, scalds, sore nipples, &c. It has long been held in popular esteem as a drying and healing dressing for sores. Cal'amine Cerate with Mercury. Syn. Ceea'tum calami'n^ cum hydeae'gyeo, L. Prep. (Ph. Chirur.) Calamine cerate, 1 lb.; red oxide of mercury, 1 oz.; mix. Used as