642 FILTRATION. in the same way as the latter. (See above.) Many vegetable solutions, that from the vis- cidity of the suspended matter can scarcely be filtered, may be readily clarified with white of egg in the cold, or pass the filter rapidly if a very small quantity of acetic, tartaric, sul- phuric, or other strong acid, is previously added. COEEOSITE LIQUIDS, as the STEONG ACIDS, are filtered through powdeeed glass, or SILICEOUS SAND, Supported on pebbles in the throat of a glass funnel, or through asbestos placed in the same manner. Chaecoal has also been employed for the same purpose, hut is not fit for some acids. Steong caustic ALKALINE LYES are also filtered through pow- deeed GLASS or SAND. WeAK ALKALINE LYES may he filtered through pine calico, stretched across the mouth of a funnel. Many corrosive liquids, as liquoe op potassa, &c., require to he excluded from the air during filtration. The simplest ^ apparatus that can he employed for this purpose is that figured in the margin:—(a) is a globular fl ^ bottle fitted with the ground \1T_^ stopper (d), and having a perfo- rated neck (/) ground to the A bottle (i); (c) is a small tube, ft wrapped round with as much ’ ' asbestos, linen, or calico, as is re- quired to make it fit the under neck of the bottle through which it passes. The tube (c) may also be fixed by placing pebbles and powdered glass or sand round it, as before mentioned. For use, the solution to be filtered is poured into the bottle {a) nearly as high as the top of the tube (c), and the stopper is replaced. The liquid then descends into {b), and a similar quantity of air passes up the tube into {a). The liqcjoe OP POTASSA (Ph. L.) may be always obtained fine by depuration in close vessels, when the sediment of lime only need be filtered, which may be efiected with calico fixed across the mouth of a funnel. When a peecipitate, or the suspended MATTEE in a liquid, is the object of the filtra- tion, the filter should be of such a nature that the powder may be easily separated from it, when dry, and that with the least loss possible. Linen piltees are for this reason preferable for large quantities, and those of smooth BIBULOUS PAPEE for Small ones. The pow^der should be washed down the sides of the filter, and collected, by means of a small stream of water, in one spot at the bottom, assisting the operation with a camel-hair pencil; and, when the whole is dry, it should be swept off the paper or cloth with a similar pencil or brush, and not removed by a knife, as is commonly done, when it can be possibly avoided. The first runnings’ of liquid from a filter are commonly foul, and are pumped back or returned until the fluid runs perfectly limpid and transparent, when it is ‘turned into’ the ^filtered liquor cistern,’ or proper receiver. In many cases the liquid does not readily become transparent by simply passing through the filter; hence has arisen the use of pil- TEEING POWDEES, or substances which rapidly choke up the pores of the media in a sufficient degree to make the fluid pass clear.^ In the employment of these powders, care should be taken that they are not in too fine a state of division, nor used in larger quantities than are absolutely necessary, as they are apt to choke up the filter, and to absorb a large quantity of the liquid. The less filtering powder used, the more rapid will be the pro- gress of the filtration, and the longer will be the period during which the apparatus will continue in effective aci.ion. For some liquids these substances are employed for the double purpose of decolouring or whitening, as well as rendering them transparent. In such cases, it is preferable first to pass the fluid through a layer of the substance in coarse powder, from which it will ‘run’ but slightly con- taminated into the filter; or, if the powder is mixed with the whole body of the liquid, as in bleaching almond oil, &c., to pass the mixture through some coarser medium, to remove the cruder portion before allowing it to run into the filter. Another is, after long agitation and subsequent repose, to decant the clearer portion from the grosser sediment, and to employ separate filters for the two. Granulated animal charcoal is used, according to the first method, to decolour syrups, oils, &c.; and filtering powder by the second and third, to remove a portion of the colour, and to clarify castor and other oils. The common plan of mixing large quantities of filtering powder with castor oil, and throw- ing the whole into the filter, as adopted by the druggists, is injudicious. When simple filtration is required, it is better to use little or no powder, and to continue returning the oil that ‘ runs ’ through, until, by the swelling of the fibres of the filter bags, it flows quite clear. By this plan the same filters may be used for a long period of time (for many years), and will continue to work well; whilst, by the usual method, they rapidly decline in power, and soon deliver their con- tents slowly, and after a short time scarcely at all. It is often of great advantage to render a filter ‘ self-acting,’ or to construct it in such a way that it may * feed itself,' so that it may continue full and at work without the constant attention of the operator. On the small scale, this may be readily effected on the principle of the common fountain lamp (see engr.)\ and on the large scale, by placing the vessel con- taining the unfilteretl liquid on a higher level than the filter, and by having the end of the 1 Sec TTlTKKING P0WDEKS,/-ff^re 637.