411 CEMENT. water, and then mixed with Hack resins 1 lb., and red ochre, 4 oz. 2. Glue, melted as above, and mixed with about a ^tli of its weight each of boiled oil and red ochre. 3. (lire.) Melted glue (of the consistence used bj-^ carpenters), 8 parts; linseed oil boiled to varnish with litharge, 4 parts j incorporate thoroughly together. 4. Glue (melted as last), 4 parts; Venice turpentine, 1 part. Obs. The first three dry in about 48 hours, and are very useful to render the joints of wooden casks, cisterns, &c., watertight; also to fix stones in frames. The last serves to cement glass, wood, and even metal to each other. They all resist moisture well. Grind'ers’ Cement. Prep. 1. From pitch, 5 parts; wood ashes and hard tallow, of each, 1 4 part; melted together. ! 2. Black resin, 4 lb.; bees’ wax, 1 lb. ; melt, K and add of whiting (previously heated red hot, u and still warm), 1 lb. 3. Shell-lac, melted and applied to the pieces ii slightly heated. Used to fix pieces of glass, 9&0., whilst grinding. The last is used for lenses and fine work. Ham'elin’s Cement. Syn. Hamblin’s mas- tic. From siliceous sand, 60 parts; Bath or Portland stone (in fine powder), 40 parts; 4 lime-marl, 20 parts; litharge, 8 parts; ground < together. For %ise, it is mixed up with linseed .. oil and used like mortar. When this cement * is applied to the purpose of covering buildings ij intended to resemble stone, the surface of the ; building is first washed with linseed oil. Hensler’s Cement. Litharge, 3 parts ; quick- lime, 2 parts; white hole, 1 part; (all in fine powder); linseed oil varnish, q. s. to make a paste. Used for china, glass, &c. It is very tenacious, but long in drying. Hoe'nle’s Cement. Shell-lac, 2 parts; Venice turpentine, 1 part; fused together, and formed into sticks. It is used like extemporaneous cement for glass and eai’thenware. Hydraulic Cement, Hydraulic mortars or cements are those which set or become hard under water. Common lime does not possess this property ; but limestones containing from 8g to 25g of alumina, magnesia, and silica, yield a lime on burning, which does not slake when moistened with water, but forms a mortar with it, which hardens in a few days when covered with water, although it does not ac- quire much solidity in the air. Puzzolana, septaria, and argillaceous or siliceous earths, burnt, either with or without the addition of common limestone, and then ground to powder, form excellent hydraulic cements. The reni- form limestone, commonly called “ cement stone,” which is found distributed in single nodules or lenticular cakes, in beds of clay, is I the substance most commonly used in this i country for the manufacture of the cements in question. See Gad’s, Hamblin’s, and Pahkbr’s Cements, &c. I'ron Cement. This cement, which is much used for closing the joints of iron pipes and similar purposes, is formed of the borings or turnings of cast iron, which should be clean and free from rust, mixed with a small quantity of sal ammoniac and fi,owers of sulphur. For use, it is stirred up with just enough water to thoroughly moisten it, and it is “ rammed” or “ caulked” into the joints with a blunt caulking chisel and hammer, after which the joint is screwed up by its bolts as tightly as possible. If the turnings or borings are very coarse, they are broken by pounding in an iron mortar, and the dust sifted off before use. The fol- lowing are good proportions :— 1. Sal ammoniac (in powder), 2 oz. ; fiowers of sulphur, 1 oz. ; iron borings, 5 lb.; water, q. s. to mix. 2. Sal ammoniac, 2 oz.; sulphur, 1 oz. ; iron borings, 12 lb. ; water, q. s. to mix. 3. Sal ammoniac, 2 oz.; iron borings, 7 or 8 lb.; water, q. s. to mix. 4. Iron borings, 4 lb.; good pipeclay, 2 lb.; powdered potsherds, 1 lb.; make them into a paste with salt and water. Remarks. The first of these forms is that generally employed for common purposes, but formerly much more sulphur and sal ammoniac were used. We are told by one of the leading engineers in London, that the strongest cement is made without sulphur, and with only 1 or 2 parts of sal ammoniac, to 100 of iron borings (see the third form); but that when the work is required to dry rapidly, as for the steam joints of machinery wanted in haste, the quantity of sal ammoniac is increased a little, and a very small quantity of sulphur is added. This addition makes it set quicker, but reduces its strength. As the power of the cement depends on the oxidization and consequent expansion of the mass, it is evident that the less foreign matter introduced the better. No more of this cement should be made at a time than can be used at once, because it soon spoils. I have seen it become quite hot by standing even a few hours, when it contained sulphur; and I have been informed by work- men, that when much sulphur is used, and it has been left together in quantity all night, combustion has taken place. The last form produces a cement that gets very hard when allowed to dry slowly, and is excellent for mending cracks in iron boilers, tanks, &c. Japanese' Cement. Syn. Hice glue. From rice fiour, mixed with a little cold water, and boiling water gradually poured in until it ac- quires a proper consistence; when it is boiled for 1 or 2 minutes in a clean saucepan or earthen pipkin. It is beautifully wdiite, and almost transparent, for which reason it is well adapted for fancy paper work, which requires a strong and colourless cement. It is superior to French cement. (See ante.) Keene’s Mar'ble Cement. Baked gypsum or plaster of Paris, steeped in a saturated solution of alum, and then recalcined, and reduced to