337 BLOTE—BLOWPIPE. wood, in 2^ pyits of soft water for 30 minutes, adding the juice of 2 lemons towards the end; strain, and add oz. of isinglass, i oz. of pow- ' dered cochineal, 1 oz. of alum, and ^ oz. of ; borax; boil again for 4 or 5 minutes, and i strain through muslin. Glass or earthenware vessels must be used, as metals injure its I colour. Bloom of Ro"ses. Prep. 1. Dried red-rose , leaves, 1^ oz.; boiling water, 1 pint; infuse in ! glass or earthenware, for 2 hours, press out the liquor and add the juice of 3 large lemons ; the , next day filter, or decant the clear portion. Both the above should be kept in a cool place, , otherwise they soon spoil. A little spirit of I wine (3 or 4 Ji. oz. to the pint) is sometimes J added to them, to remove this olajection. They I' are greatly inferior to the following:— 2. Carmine, \ oz.; strong liquor of ammonia >1 (not weaker than -900), 1 oz.; put them into II a stoppered bottle, set it in a cool place, and I occasionally agitate it for two or three days, ' to effect solution; then add of rose-water, 1 I pint; and, after admixture, further add of j esprit de rose, \ fl. oz.; pure rectified spirit, j \fl. oz.; again well agitate, and set the whole > aside for a week; lastly, decant the clear por- j tion from the dregs (if any), for use or sale, h Very fine. A cheaper article is made by l| omitting a portion of the carmine, and the . I whole of the esprit and spirit; and a still ; inferior one, by substituting oz. of silver- I grain cochineal (in powder) for the carmine, ' with digestion for a week in the ammonia pre- ! viously diluted with one-half of the water. ;! BLOTE. To p^pare or cure by drying and smoking; now omy applied to fish. ii BL0"TER. Syn. Bloat'ee. A bloted fish; fl appr., a herring slightly salted, and only very slightly dried and smoked. BLOW'PIPE (bl5'-). Chalumeatj, Fr.; Lothrohe, Ger. An instrument by means ' of which the flame of a candle or lamp, or a I gas-jet, is directed upon any substance placed to receive it, which is thus subjected to an : intense heat. The blowpipe is to the artist, and ' the experimentalist, what the wind-furnace is to the artisan; but it is proportionately more j powerful, convenient, and economical. Beginners are usually unable to maintain a continued stream of air from the jet of this ii instrument, although the doing so is really a vjvery simple affair. The operation merely ' I depends on a little artifice in using it, which is I more difficult to describe than to acquire. The effect intended to be produced is a con- tinual stream of air for many minutes, if ne- icessary, without interruption even for an dnstant. This is done by simply applying the tongue to the roof of the mouth, so as to inter- rupt the communication between the mouth land the passage of the nostrils; by which .means the operator is at liberty to breathe ^through the nose, at the same time that by the ;muscles of the lips he forces a continued stream lof air from the anterior part of the mouth through the blowpipe. When the mouth begins to be empty it is replenished by the lungs in an instant, while the tongue is with- drawn from the roof of the mouth, and re- placed again in the same manner as in pro- nouncing the monosyllable tut. In this way the stream of air may be continued for a long time without fatigue, provided the flame be not urged too impetuously; and even should it be so urged no other inconvenience will be felt than that of slight fatigue of the muscles of the lips. The hottest portion of the flame produced by the action of the blowpipe is at the ‘ tip ^ of the outer white-fiame, which has also the property of rapidly burning or ‘ oxi- dising ’ substances placed in it which are sus- ceptible of such a change; and it is hence com- monly called the ox'idising elame. The interior blue-fiame is, for a like reason, called the EEDTJ"ciNG-ELAME; as it possesses the property of abstracting ‘oxygen^ from most bodies capable of being so affected. Substances to be submitted to the action of the blowpipe-flame are placed on a support, which is either a piece of charcoal, or a wire or small spoon of platinum, gold, or silver, as the case may require. Sometimes a plate of cyanite is used. Pine-wood charcoal is preferred for this purpose ; and the sides, not the ends of the fibres, are presented to the flame. When a very intense heat is required, the substance operated on should not exceed the size of half a peppercorn. For producing extreme degrees of heat the flame is blown with a jet of ' oxygen gas,’ the instrument being then called an ox'tgen BLOWPIPE; or a mixture of ‘oxygen’ and ‘ hydrogen ’ is burned, when it is called an oxt-hy'deogen blowpipe. The heat pro- duced by the last is so great that no substance can stand exposure to it, even the most re- fractory native compounds being immediately fused. Gold is volatilised, and iron is rapidly consumed the instant it is placed in the flame. The principal varieties of the blowpipe in general use are figured in the engravings below:— 1 2 3 4 5 6 1, Hemming’s safety jet for the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe, a, Pipe conveying oxygen gas. b, „ hydrogen gas. c, Ball stuffed with tine wire-gauze. e, Jet (internal diameter l-80lh of an inch). 2, Black’s blowpipe. 3, Bergman’s „ 4, Pepy’s „ 5, Wollaston’s „ 6, 0.vy-hydrogen„ 22