154 AMMONIA. In either case a proportionate quantity of water is put into the condensers, and the operation is nearly similar; but the latter method re- quires the least heat, and so far as the receiv- ers and refrigerators are concerned, is, per- haps, the one most easily managed. It is that which is always, and necessarily followed, when ‘sulphate of ammonia* is employed. Ratio. The changes which occur here have been already noticed under AMiroifiA (supra). 'The water merely absorbs or dissolves the liberated gas. Prop., uses, 8fC. Highly pungent, caustic, and alkaline \ lighter than water, and present- ing in a liquid form most of the characteristics of pure ammonia. As a medicine, it is antacid, diaphoretic, rubefacient, stimulant, and counter- irritant ; and is used in various affections in which these remedies are indicated. As a vesicant it is superior to cantharides, and as a caustic it is used with advantage in the bites of rabid animals, especially those of serpents and insects. Its vapour is a common nasal stimulant in faintings, epilepsy, &c. In its concentrated form it is a corrosive poison.— Dose, 5 to 25 drops, in cold water, or milk and water. It enters into the composition of se- veral valuable external remedies, and is in constant employment in the chemical labora- tory, both as a reagent, and for the preparation of other compounds. Pur. It “ is free from colour. Exposed to the air it (entirely) escapes in highly acrid, alkaline, fugacious vapours, as shewn by tur- meric. A solution of lime lieing added, throws down nothing; hydrosulphuric acid does not discolour it; nor, when first saturated by nitric acid, does it give any precipitate with either sesquicarbonate of ammonia or nitrate of silver, or chloride of barium.’* (Ph. L.) No bub- bles of gas should be evolved on the addition of an acid. The presence of ‘ empyreumatic oil* or of ‘volatile hydi’ocarbons* may be detected by the odour evolved when a drop or two are rubbed on the palm of the hand; or by adding a large excess of oil of vitriol, which by charring the organic matter, will impart a dark hue to the liquid. Oxalic acid should not disturb the solution. Estim. See Ammonimetrt. Ant., S(c. When the fumes have been in- haled, the patient should be exposed to a cur- rent of fresh air; and when the liquid has been swallowed, vinegar or lemon-juice mixed with water, may be administered; follow’ed by an emetic, or, on its failure, by the stomach- pump. Concluding Remarks, Patents, <^'c. What- ever form or process may be adopted for the preparation of liquid ammonia, it is absolutely necessary to keep the receivers as cool as pos- sible, by means of snow', ice, or a current of very cold w^ater, for the purpose of promoting the absorption of the gas, and to prevent its loss. On the small scale, the glass receivers or bottles may be most conveniently surrounded with ice, or a freezing mixture, and tw'o, or more of them, should be furnished with safety- tubes, to prevent accidents. On the large scale, a capacious obloijg retort usually of iron (but sometimes, though seldom, o^lead), with a large opening or tubulature conveniently situ- ated for inserting the ‘ charges,* and withdraw- ing the residuum of the distillation, is em- ployed. The tubulatm’e, or opening, is closed by means of a large and accurately ground iron-stoppei*, or with a door secured by screw's, as the case may be. The stopper is well- greased before insertion, and is removed by means of a pow'erful lever. Should it become so firmly fixed that it cannot be displaced in the usual manner, a cloth moistened w’ith cold water, and carefully wrapped round it, without touching the neck of the retort, will generally cause it to contract sufficiently to enable the operator to remove it with facility. Sometimes a large iron-kettle, w'ith a mov- able and accurately fitting lid secured in its place like that of a ‘ Papin’s digester, * and having a large and long tubulature in its centre, is employed instead of a retort, over which it has the advantage of exposing a larger opening for the removal of the resi- duum of the process. In either case the dis- tillatory vessel is embedded in sand supported by fire-brick, and is not exposed directly to the heat of the furnace. Before commencing the distillation the joints are all wetl-luted, to avoid leakage.^ An excellent plan is to pass the gas, as it leaves the retort, through a silver or pewter ‘ w'orm * or ‘ refrigerator * set in a tub supplied with a stream of very cold w^ater ; by w^hich it w'ill be sufficiently cooled before it reaches the ‘ receivers * to obviate the necessity of any further attention to them than keeping the cloths w'rapped round them constantly moistened w'ith cold water. The lower end of the ‘ w'orm’ should be connected, by means of a balloon-shaped ‘adopter,* with the ‘ still, * and the upper end w’ith the first ‘ re- ceiver ; * the use of the balloon being to inter- cept any volatilised ammonia-salt that might be accidentally ‘ driven over* by the heat being too high, or too suddenly raised. The heat should be gradually applied, and very gradually raised, to prevent any of the ‘ sal ammoniac* or ‘ sulphate * being volatilised undecomposed; and even toward the end of the process it should not even approach redness. The lime is best ‘ slaked* and ‘ papped * with about 4 parts of water; as a low^er heat is then required to expel the gas, and it passes over more easily and fully, than wdien less water is employed. This is absolutely neces- sary w'hen the sulphate is the ammonia- salt used; as otherwise the residuum of ‘ sulphate of lime * would become so hard that it could not be easily removed from the retort. 1 Linseed-nieal, 2 parts, and vihiting, 1 part, made into a (lough with -water, is a good lcte for tliis purpose. After its application the surface should he ‘smoothed off’ witli the fingers dipped in water.