JAPONIC ACID—JELLY. 805 are first sized, polished, and varnished. For plain surfaces asphaltum varnish or japan is used. See Varnishing-. JAPONIC ACID. When catechin is ex- posed to the air in contact with caustic alka- lies, black solutions (alkaline japonates) are formed ; with carbonated alkalies, red so- lutions (alkaline rebates) ; the acid of the former may be separated. It is a black pow- der, insoluble in water, soluble in alkalies, and precipitated by acids. Rubic acid forms red insoluble compounds with the earths and some other metallic oxides. JARAVE. The Spanish name for sarsa- parilla BEER. See Beers (in pharmacy). JAS'PER. Syn. Iaspis, L. A mineral of the quartz family, occurring in rocky masses. It takes various shades of red, yellow, brown, and green, and is occasionally banded, spotted, or variegated. It was formerly used as an amulet against haemorrhages and fluxes. It is now extensively worked up into rings, seals, snuff-boxes, vases, &c., for which it is well cal- culated from its extreme hardness and suscepti- bility of receiving a fine polish. JATRO'PHIC ACID. Syn. Crotonic acid, Iatrophic a. a peculiar fatty acid disco- vered by Pelletier and Caventou, and originally regarded by them as the cathartic principle of croton oil and croton seeds, but since shown by Redwood and Pereira to be nearly inert. Prep. The o?7 is saponified by causticpotassa, and the resulting soap is decomposed by tar- taric acid; the fatty matter which floats on i the surface of the liquid is then skimmed off the aqueous portion, and the latter submitted to distillation j the liquid in the receiver is a solution of jatrophic acid. Prop. 8^c. Volatile; very acid; has a nauseous 1 odour; is solid at 23®, and vaporizes at 35° ( Fahr. It forms salts with the bases, none of j which possess any practical importance. I JAU'MANGE. Prep. From isinglass, 1 oz.; I boiling water, 12 oz.; dissolve, add of any I sweet white wine, ^ pint; the yolks of 2 eggs beaten to a froth, and the grated yellow peel of 2 lemons; mix well, and heat the whole over the fire until sufficiently thickened, stir- ring all the time ; lastly, serve it up, or pour it into moulds. JAUN'DICE. Syn. Icteres, Morbes le- teoles, L. a disease characterised by a yel- low colour of the eyes and skin, deep-coloured urine, and pale alvine evacuations. It appears to arise from a disordered action of the biliary organs. The treatment consists of the admi- nistration of saline aperients, and small doses of blue-pill, followed by ionics and diaphoretics. The action of these remedies should be pro- moted by the copious use of diluents (particu- larly saline waters), and exercise in the open air, when possible. When there is much pain and vomiting, anodynes (as opium, morphia, &c.) may be administered. Jaundice is not in itself a dangerous disease, but it some- times lays the patient open to attacks of others which are so. JEL'LY. Syn. Gelatina, L. A term now very loosely applied to various substances which are liquid or semi-liquid whilst warm, and be- come gelatinous on cooling. Jellies are coloured by the addition of the usual stains used by confectioners, and are rendered transparent by clarification with white of egg. ATmond Jelly. Syn. Gelatina amtgda- LAREM, L. Prep. From rich almond milk, \ pint; thick hartshorn jelly, ^ pint; sugar, 2 oz.; with 2 or 3 bitter almonds and a little lemon peel, to flavour, heated together, strained, and moulded. Ar'row-root Jelly. Syn. Gelatina ma- RANTjE, L. From arrow-root, 1^ oz., to water, 1 pint. Tous les mois jelly is made in the same way. Bis'cuit Jelly. Prep. From white biscuit (crushed beneath the rolling-pin), 4 oz. ; cold water, 2 quarts; soak for some hours, boil to one half, strain, evaporate to 1 pint, and add, of white sugar, f lb., red wine, 4 oz., and cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful. In weakness of the stomach, and in dysentery and diarrhoea, and in convalescences combined with rich beef gravy or soup. Bread Jelly. Syn. Panada; Gelatina ranis, L. Prep. Cut a French roll into slices, toast them on each side, and boil in water, 1 quart, until the whole forms a jelly, adding more water if required; strain, and add sugar, milk, &c., to palate. It may he made with broth from which the fat has been skimmed, instead of water. Used as the last. Broth Jelly. Syn. Soep jelly. From broth or soup from which the fat has been skimmed, evaporated until it becomes gelatinous on cool- ing. A few shreds of isinglass are commonly added. See Soep (Portable). Calves’ Feet Jelly. Prep. For each foot take of water, 3 pints, and boil to one half; cool, skim off the fat, and again boil for 2 or 3 minutes with the peel of a lemon and a little spice ; remove it from the fire, strain through a. jelly bag (see Filtration), add the juice of a lemon and a glass of wine, and when it has cooled a little put it into glasses or ‘ forms.’ Obs. If this jelly is required to be very transparent, it must be treated as follows:— After the fat is removed, it should be gently warmed, just enough to melt it, next well beaten with the white of an egg and the sea- soning, and then brought to a boil for a minute or two, when it will be ready for straining, &c. The calves’ feet should not be bought ready boiled, but only scalded. Coivs’ feet (‘ cow heels’) make nearly as good jelly as that from calves’ feet, and are much more eco- nomical. Ceylon Moss Jelly. Sy7i. Gelatina graci- LARIJE, L. Prep. (Dr. Sigmond.) Boil Ceylon moss {Gracilaria lichenoides), ^ oz., in wafer, 1 quart, for 25 minutes, or till the liquid jellies