PARAKAKODYLIC OXIDE—PARR. 1033 lANDLES, for which purpose it is specially clapted, being a most elegant substance, and juvpassing all other candle materials, even (permaceti, in illuminating power. Its pro- lierty of not being acted upon by acids or Ikalies renders it suitable for stoppers for I essels holding chemical liquids; also for elec- i'ROTYPE MOULDS. As it Contains no oxygen. It might be employed to protect oxydizable Inetals like sodium and potassa from contact jvith the air. “One use of paraffin candle- |nds will commend them to the ladies of the liousehold—a small piece of paraffin added to jtarch will be found to give a gloss and bril- liancy of surface to the starched linen that jan be attained by no other addition.” (W. |k Tegetmeier.) I PAEAKAKODYL'IC OXIDE. ' An oily liquid, ibtained by the action of air, very slowly ad- loitted, on alkarsin. PARAL'YSIS. Syn. Palsy. A loss or con- iderable diminution of power of voluntary notion, or functional action, of any part of the |iody. In its most usual form, one side only of Ihe body is affected. “ It not uncommonly jeizes the lower extremities, or all parts below |he pelvis; sometimes the arms only; and i ccasionally a part, as one side of the face, one jyelid, the tongue, or the muscles of degluti* lion.” In these cases, the speech frequently |)ecomes indistinct and incoherent, and the iiiemory and judgment impaired, whilst the Listorted features assume a more or less re- olting aspect. The causes of paralysis are various. It may )e occasioned by anything that prevents the tree flow of the nervous power from the brain into the organs of motion, as pressure on par- i icular parts of the brain, the spinal marrow, >r the nerves; by poisons, the long-continued ise of sedatives, local injuries, the sudden sup- )ression of profuse and habitual evacuations, md by whatever tends to greatly relax or inervate the system. It may also be a conse- [uence of an attack of apoplexy, or it may be yinptomatic of other diseases, as scrofula, yphilis, and worms. When it is of a dis- inctly local character, it may arise from ex- essive use or undue employment of the part •r organ. That of old age is, probably, a mere nnsequence of the failing nervous energy of he system being unequally distributed. “ Palsy usually comes on with a sudden and mmediate loss of the motion and sensibility of he parts; but, in a few instances, it is pre- -eded by a numbness, coldness, and paleness; md, sometimes, by slight convulsive twitches. If the disease affects the extremities, and has been of long duration, it not only produces a LOSS of motion and sensibility, but likewise a 2onsiderable flaccidity and wasting away of the muscles of the parts affected.” When palsy attacks any vital party such as the brain, heart, or lungs, it soon terminates •n death. The treatment of paralysis depends upon a careful consideration of its cause. The first object should be, as far as possible, to remove any compressing force, and to gradually arouse the torpid portion of the nervous system. In general, more or less depletion will be found beneficial, together with rather active purga- tion, and nervous stimulants, as ammoniay mush, &c. Blisters to the head and neck are also appropriate. With the debilitated and aged, venesection must be avoided. Stimulant and rubefacient frictions and liniments, the vapour bath, and other like remedies, also fre- quently prove useful. In local attacks of the disease, as the loss of use of one of the hands, arms, legs, &c., no agent has proved so gene- rally successful as voltaic electricity. For this purpose the current should be in one direction only, and continued uninterruptedly for some time daily. When the direction of the cur- rent is alternate, with slight shocks, as in the common coil machine, this agent is of doubtful utility, except for occasional use. In all cases medical aid should be sought as early as pos- sible. FAR'AMIDE. A white, ainorphous, inso- luble substance, formed along with eucheonic ACID, during the distillation of mellitate oj ammonia. When boiled in water, it is con- verted into BIMELLITATE OF AMMONIA. PARAMOR'PHINE. See Thebaine. PARAM'YLENE. A substance formed along with AMYLENE during its preparation by the common process. It boils at 320° Fahr., whereas amylene boils at about 103°. PARANAPH'THALIN. Syn. Anthracene. A substance found in the naphthalin of coal- tar, from which it may be separated by di- gestion in alcohol, which dissolves the ordinary NAPHTHALIN and leaves the paranaphthalin in an insoluble form; it is then purified by redigestion in hot alcohol, and final sublima- tion. Prop.ySfc. White; crystalline; inflammable; soluble in ether and oil of turpentine; melts at 416° Fahr. Naphthalin and paranapthalin are isomeric compounds. PARAPEC'TIN. See Pectin. PAR'ASITES. The parasitical animals that infest the human body are referred to under the heads Acari and Pediculi. PARATARTAR'IC ACID. See Racemic Acid. PARCH'MENT. See Vellum, and Paper (Parchment). PAREGORTC. See Tincture of Camphor (Compound). Scotch Paregoric. See Tincture of Opium (Ammouiated). PAREI'RA BRA'VA. See Velvet Leaf. PAREL'LIC ACID. A compound obtained along with orsellinic acid by boiling the lichen Lecanora parella with baryta, by a pro- cess nearly similar to that adopted for ery- THRIC ACID. PARR. A name applied to the salmon until near the end of its second year, when it loses