274 BASE—BASTARD. Chance, Brothers, of Birmingham, have availed themselves of this property to apply it to decorative and ornamental purposes. Their process is to melt the material^ in a rever- beratory furnace, and, when sufficiently fluid, to pour it into red-hot moulds of sand encased in iron boxes. The corresponding adj. is basalt'ic (-solt'- j basal'Tiers, -sal'-, L.; BA- SALTIQTTE, Fr.). BASE. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ba'sis {pi, ha'ses), L., Gr. j Geund, Geundflache, Ger. In chemistry, the electro-positive element or in- gredient of an oxide, salt, &c. j including the alkalies, alkaloids, earths, oxides, metals, and other substances, simple or compound, capable of forming ‘salts’ with the acids, chlorine, &c.,2 or a ‘salifiable oxide^ with oxygen.’^ It is often also loosely employed in the same sense as ‘radicaV oi’ to denote the ‘characteristic constituent.’ Thus, magnesia is termed the ‘base’ of Epsom-salt; calcium, of lime; qui- nine, of disulphate of quinine; and sulphur (loosely), that of oil of vitriol. The bases, like the acids, are divided into ‘classes’ by chemists; which classification, in general chemistry, is usually founded on their composition or source; but, in analysis, chiefly on—their solubility, or non-solubility, in different menstrua, as water, hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, aqua regia, and alkaline solu- tions—their volatility, or non-volatility—their behaviour when heated before the blowpipe— the behaviour of their solutions with reagents, &c. The EXAMINATION of a substance, either simple or compound, of which the nature is entirely unknown, with a view to detect the BASE, is necessarily a matter requiring con- siderable skill and experience to conduct in the most ready and certain manner; more especially when the quantity at our command is small, and we possess no clue to direct our search. In general, however, the physical properties—colour, shape, hardness, fracture, gravity, fluidity, volatility, odour, &c., of the substance, with such information as may reach us with it, as to its uses, source, place where it was found, &c., will enable us to form some rational conjecture of its nature, which will materially lessen the difficulty, and at once lead us in the right direction for solving the problem. The full considera- tion of the subject belongs to analytical chemistry, and would exceed the limits and objects of this work. Instructions for the recognition of the individual bases, and their detection and estimation in commercial com- pounds, as far as is necessary for practical pur- poses, are given, in this work, under their re- spective names. See Alkali, Alkaloid, Ami- DOGEN-BASES, EaETHS, METALS, OxIDES, &C. Base. In pharmacy, the characteristic or principal ingredient in any medicine or com- 1 Rowley-rag is used by tlie Messrs. C.; as beside ordinary l)asalt, greenstone, tvhinstone, and other similar minerals, possess the same property. * Hence frequently called ‘sal'ifiable ba'SES.’ * Often called ‘ metal'lic ba'se.s.’ pound preparation; or that on which its quali- ^ ties or efficacy depends. See Peesceibing, ^ Peesceiption, &c. i BAS'IL (baz'-). Syn. Sweet bas'il, Cit'eon \ B.; BaSIL'ICUM, L. ; BaSILIC, Fr.; BaSIL- ^ IKUM, Ger. The oc’ymum (os'-) basil'icum # (Linn.), an annual aromatic herbaceous plant, ■ \ of the nat. ord. Labiatse (DC.). It is a native of India, but is largely cultivated in every part of Em’ope as a pot-herb. Leaves, strong- scented; popularly reputed emmenagogue; much used to flavour salads, soups, &c., espe- cially in French cookery. * Mock-turtle soup' derives its peculiar flavour from this herb; as also did the ‘original Fetter-lane sausages' ■ once so highly esteemed by Cockney gour- mands. In India it is commonly employed as an anodyne, in childbirth. BAS'IL (baz'-). Syn. Bas'an; Basane, Fr. A sheep-skin, tanned; particularly one dressed on the grain-side, for book-binding. BASIL'IC (-zil'-). Syn. Basil'ictts, " L.; Basilique, Fr. Princely, royal; excellent, efficacious; in ancient medicine, applied to several substances and preparations supposed to possess pre-eminent virtues and activity. The word is still in use amongst farriers and the common people. See Basil (herb), Oint- MENTS, and POWDEES. BASIL'CON. See Basilic (above); also Ceeates and Ointments. BA'SIS (sis-). See Base. BAS'KET (bas'-). Syn. Coph'inus (kbf'-), L.; Paniee, Coebeille, &c., Fr.; Koeb, Ger. A vessel of twigs (usually withes or osiers), or of other like flexible material, interwoven; also its contents (a basketful). Their manu- facture is probably one of the most ancient and | ; universally diffused of the arts. { It A description of the manufacture of BASKETS I and bas'ket-woek properly belongs to a trea-« w tise on ‘ handicrafts.’ We may, however, men-jj * tion here, that they are generally stained orf ■ COLOITEED with the simple liquid dyes used] it for ‘straw’ or ‘wood’; and that, for vaeie-^ it GATED WOEK, the twigs, after being carefully | it peeled, washed, and wiped dry or slightly |i it! air-dried, are stained before being woven.!' “ See OsiEES, &c. j il BASSJ (bas). [provincial.] Several fish of: the perch kind. They are all wholesome and], well-tasted. ^ ^ h BassJ. [provin.] The linden-tree; also a* 1 si hassock or mat made of its inner bark. See Bast. 4 BAS'SORIKE (-rin).4 Syn. Bassoei'na, L. i A substance first noticed, by Vauquelin, in (it Bas'sora-gum. See Insoluble Gum, Teaga- tit CANTHINE, &C. «li BAST (bast). Syn. Bass (which see). The, oe inner bark of the linden-tree or tiel-tree; also I {i, matting, &c., made of it. iil BAS'TARD (bas'-). Syn. No'thus, L.;'" Bataed,Fr.; Falsch, Unecht, &c., Ger. In 'It 4 Brand e; hassorhie'—Mayne; both con- trary tg analogy and the best usage. k