540 EDULCORATION—EGG. perature, to meet which a barometrical equa- tion is attached to the thermometer by means of a small subsidiary scale. It is therefore necessary, prior to commencing the operation of testing any liquor, to charge the little boiler with pure water only, and to fix the thermo- meter in its place. When the water boils freely, the mercury becomes stationary in the stem, exactly opposite the true barometrical indication at the time. Should this be against the line 29'5, no correction will be required; but should it stand at any other line, above or below, then the various boiling-points will bear reference to that boiling-point only. In the latter case, the boiliny-point of the ivaier on the barometrical indicator must be set against the boiling-point of the liquid on the scale, when opposite the line—29'5 will be found the true strength. Thus :—the bai’ometer being at 30 inches, and the indication or boiling-point being 72 u. p., 30 on the indicator must be placed against 72 u. p. on the thermometer, when against the line of 29 5 will be seen 69*6 u. p., the real strength of the sample tested. “ When a spirit is stronger than the ‘excise proof,’ its boiling-point varies too little with its alterations of strength to render the ebullioscope of much practical value. To make it applicable to the stronger spirits, it is therefore necessary to dilute them with exactly their own bulk of pure water before testing them, and then to double the resulting in- dication, as suggested by Dr. Ure. Our own plan is always to do this when the spirit is stronger than 20 u. p. “ By means of the ebullioscope the alcoholic content of beer, wines, and spirits, of every variety and class, may be readily determined with sufficient accuracy for all practical pur- poses ; and by methods which we shall hereafter point out, the amount of saccha- rine extractive, or sugar, in cordialized spirit, malt liquors, and tvines, may also be ascer- tained. “ The ebullioscope (Field’s alcoholometee) employed by us in numerous and extensive investigations connected with public hygiene, was made by Mr. Long, of Little Tower Street, and is an instrument which should be in the hands of every wine and spirit merchant and licensed victualler, as well as every private gentleman who feels interested in the quality of the liquors in his cellar. The instrument is accompanied by a useful little pamphlet of directions and tables, which has been very accu- rately got up, as we understand, by the late Dr. Ure, expressly for Mr. Long” (A. J. Cooley). EDULCORA'TION. The affusion of water on , any substance for the purpose of removing the portion soluble in that fluid. Edulcoration is usually performed by agitating or triturating the article with water, and removing the latter, after subsidence, by decantation or filtration. It is the method commonly adopted to purify precipitates and other powders which are insoluble in water. The washing-bottle is a most useful instrument for the edulcoration of precipitates. In its simplest form, it is a bottle fitted with two bent glass tubes, one drawn to a fine point and reaching to the bottom of the bottle, the other only entering the cork a few inches. By blowing down the latter tube, the water is forced out of the former in a fine stream. EEL. a. Anguilla, L. A family of fishes belonging to the ‘apodal’ section of the malacopterygii. At least three species of eels are found in this country—the ‘ sharp-nosed,’ the ‘ broad-nosed,’ and the ‘ siiig.’ The first, which is common in streams and lakes, attains the greatest size—sometimes 25 lb. or even 30/A. The ‘snig’ is considered superior to other kinds for the table. As articles of food, eels are said to be laxative and far from whole- some. The fat (eel pat ; adeps anguillaj, OLEUM A.) is among the simples of the Ph. L. 1618, and was formerly considered ‘ good against stripes,’ and is even now used by ttie vulgar as a friction for stiff joints. Foe the TABLE, eels are generally dressed by steiving, frying, baking, ov potting, which is done in the usual way, the fish being cut into pieces 2 or 3 inches long, and melted butter, onions, sweet herbs, and anchovy sauce, added at will. The congee eel is a distinct and gigantic species of the same family. Its flesh is coarse and oily, but is much esteemed by the inhabitants of the southern coast of Devon, on which it abounds. EFFERVES'CENCE. The rapid escape of gas in small bubbles from a liquid. See Deaught, Powdee, &c. EFFLORES'CENCE. The spontaneous con- version of a solid into a dry pulverulent form. Crystals which in a dry atmosphere lose their water of crystallization, and become crusted over with a mealy powder, are said to be EFPLOEESCENT. EGG. Syn. Otum, L. A body produced in the females of birds and certain other animals, containing an ‘ embryo’ of the same species, or body, from which a similar animal may ulti- mately be produced. The eggs of the common domestic fowl are nutritious and easily di- gestible ; and when lightly cooked by boiling, and eaten with a little salt, are admirably adapted as an aliment for the sick and delicate. When boiled hard or fried, they are rendered less digestible, and possess no advantage in this respect over butcher’s meat. A new-laid egg, beaten up in a cup of tea, coffee, or choco- late, is an excellent ingredient in the breakfast of a person with a poor appetite, and is very supporting. A glass of wine, beer, or porter, similarly treated, along with a biscuit, has been recommended as a light and nutritious lun- cheon or supper, well suited to the debilitated and dyspeptic. Raw eggs may be advantage- ously substituted for cod-liver oil in all the cases in which this last is ordered, occurring in persons with delicate or irritable stomachs.