801 IRON WIRE—ISOMERISM. as long as a precipitate is formed; after repose, the clear liquor is decanted. The fol- lowing practical directions for this process are given by O'Neill:—20 gall, of acetate of lime liquor at 21° Twaddell, are heated to 140° Fahr. in a copper; 65 Iha. of green cop- peras in coarse powder are then added, and stirred till dissolved; finally, gall, of wood acid are added. Product. 16 gall, of iron liquor at 24° Twaddell. 3. (Prof. Runge.) Eight suitable vessels are arranged one above another, like a stair- case, so that the top of the upper one may rest a little over the one immediately below it, and so on of the others to the bottom one. The 8 vessels are now filled with old scraps of iron, and the upper one with pyroligneous acid as well; after half an hour this is drawn off into the vessel next below it, and this again, after the lapse of another half hour, into the third, and so on \mtil the last is emptied. The acid is now passed a second time through the vessels in the same way as before, and thus becomes strongly impregnated with iron in a less time than by any other means, except the following :— 4. (Dr. Winterfield.) This consists in em- ploying several wooden cylinders, resembling those used in the ‘quick process* of making vinegar; the space between the two perforated bottoms, usually filled with wood shavings, being occupied with scraps of iron. Pyrolig- neous acid is then passed through them, and the same system of ventilation observed as in the manufacture of vinegar. Obs. Crude pyroligneous acid, or acid of the first rectification, is commonly employed to make iron liquor on the large scale. As soon as the deposit of tarry matter on the surface of the iron hinders the action of the acid, it is burnt off. IRON WIRE. Syn. Feeetjm in fila TEACTUM (Ph. L.), Feeei filum (Ph. E.), Feeei fila (Ph. D.), L. This is the only form of metallic iron retained in the Ph. L. It is used to make preparations of iron. IS'ATHYDE. This naine has been given by Erdman to a yellowish-white, semi-crys- talline powder obtained by adding hydrosul- phuret of ammonia to a hot solution of isatine ; sulphur is deposited together with isathyde as the liquor cools. By using sulphuretted hy- drogen instead of hydrosulphuret of am- monia, ‘ bisulphisathyde " is obtained. This last is converted by an alcoholic solution of po- tassa into ‘ suiphisathyde," and by cold aqueous solution of potassa into ‘ indin.’ IS’ATIN. A product of the oxidation of indigo, discovered by Erdman and Laurent. Prep. From indigo (in fine powder), 1 part, rubbed to a paste with a little water, and then gently heated with a mixture of bichromate of potassa and sulphuric acid, of each, 1 part; water, 30 parts; as soon as a deep yellowish-browm solution is obtained, the whole is allowed to cool, when crystals of impure isatin are deposited ; these are purified by carefully washing them with a little cold water and by recrystallization, first in water, and then in alcohol. Prop., ^c. Lustrous, orange-red crystals, soluble in boiling water, and alcohol, and in cold liquor of potassa, forming a rich purple- coloured solution. By boiling the liquid this colour is destroyed, and isatinate of potassa formed, which may be obtained in crystals by careful evaporation. ISATINTC ACID. Syn. Isatic acid. Prep. The crystals of isatinate of potassa, obtained as above, are dissolved in alcohol, recrystallized, the crystals redissolved in water, and the so- lution precipitated with acetate of lead; the white powder (isatinate of lead) is next diffused through water, and sulphuretted hy- drogen passed through the liquid, v^hen a so- lution is obtained, which by spontaneous evaporation yields isatinic acid. Prop., S^c. A white semi-crystalline powder, soluble in cold water, but decomposed when the solution is heated. It forms salts with the bases called isatinates. ISCHU'RIA. In pathology, retention, stop- page, or suppression of the urine. ISETHIONTC ACID. A compound dis- covered by Magnus. It is obtained by boiling a solution of elhionic acid, axidi concentrating the liquid by evaporation. It is a viscid, oily liquid, and, as well as its salts (isethionates), is rather stable; their solutions may be boiled without suffering decomposition. The ise- thionates OF AMMONIA, BAEYTA, COPPEE, LEAD, POTASSA, and SODA, are soluble, and crystallize with facility. See Ethionic Acid. I"SINGLASS. Syn. Ichthyocolla, L. The finest kinds of isinglass are obtained from various species of the genus Acipenser, or sturgeon, that from the great sturgeon being perhaps the most esteemed. It is the air-bag, swimming bladder, or sound, dried without any other preparation than opening, folding, or twisting it. The picked or cut isinglass of the shops consists of the lumps of staple isin- glass picked into shreds by women and children, or cut by machines. Prop., Sfc. Good isinglass is the purest natural gelatine known. Its quality is deter- mined by its whiteness, absence of the least fishy odour, and ready and almost entire solu- bility in boiling water; the solution forming a nearly white, scentless, semi-transparent, solid jelly, w’hen cold. It is soluble in weak acids, and this solution is precipitated by al- kalies. The aqueous solution is not precipi- tated by spirit of the common strengths. 1 part of good isinglass dissolved in 25 parts of hot water forms a rich, tremulous jelly. It is very commonly adulterated. See Gelatine. ISOM'ERISM. In chemistry, identity of composition, with dissimilarity of properties. Isomeric compounds (ISOMEEIDES) are such as contain the same elements in the same pro- portions, but which differ from each other in 51