COLLOID—COLLYRIA. 468 Obs. Mr. Hardwicli recommends that the COTTON, before being- converted into pyroxy- line, sliould be cleansed by boiling for two hours in a solution of caustic potassa (2 oz. to the gallon), and by being afterwards repeatedly washed and dried. The nitric acid, sp. gr. 1*45, should be employed, but the ordi- nary commercial sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol) is sufficiently pure for use. To purify the ETHER, and to get rid of a certain ozonized principle, which would decompose the iodizing solution, Mr. Hardwicli recommends the fol- lowing process:—Take the best washed ether of commerce, and agitate it thoroughly with a small portion of dilute sulphuric acid, and then introduce it into a retort, and distil over one third. The alcohol used is of the strength of that sold for absolute alcohol; it should be pure. 2. Neg'ative Collodion. (Hardwicli.) To form the PYEOXYLINE:—Take of sulphuric acid, sp. gr. 1'845, at 60°, 18 fl. oz.; nitric acid, sp. gr. 1-475, at 60°, 6 fl. oz.; water, 5i fl. oz.; cotton, 300 grains. Mix, and allow the tem- perature to fall to 150° Fahr. The weight of the pyroxyline ought to be 375 grains. To form the plain collodion :—Take alcohol, sp. gr. *806, i gallon; ether, sp. gr. ’725, 1 gall.; pyroxyline, 1900 grains. Saturate the pyroxyline with the alcohol, then pour in half a gallon of the ether, agitate for 3 or 4 minutes, and repeat the process in adding the remainder. Decant the clear liquid from the sediment after a week or ten days’ rest. The following forms for iodizing solutions are recom- mended:—a. (Potassium lodizer.) Iodide cf potassium, 135 grains; alcohol, sp. gr. *816, 10 fl. 02. Powder and dissolve in the alcohol, previously heated to 140°.—b. (Cadmium lodizer.) Iodide of cadmium, 170 grains; alcohol, sp. gr. *816, 10 fl. oz. Dissolve in the cold, and Alter.—c. (Bromo-iodizer.) Bromide of ammonium, 40 grains; iodide of ammonium, 90 grains; iodide of cadmium, 90 grains; alcohol, sp. gr. *816, 10 fl. oz. Pulverize, and dissolve in the cold. To sensitize the collo- dion, add to three parts one part of either a, b, or c. Obs. Most of the practical directions given under the head of positive collodion apply equally to negative collodion. Nothing but patient and intelligent practice will ever lead to success in preparing collodion for jflio- tographic purposes. Although formula; of undoubted excellence may be used, it (;on- tinually happens that the results are entirely nugatory from some trifling cause. See Piio- TOGEAPHY. Vesicating Collodion. Syn. Blis'tering COLLODION, CaNTHAE'iDINE, C. ; COLLO'DIUM ves'icans, L. Prep. 1. (Tichborne.) Coarsely powdered cantharides, 6 oz., are placed loosely in a displacement apparatus (provided with a tap to regulate the flow), and treated with ether from methylated spirit, 13 fl. oz., and glacial acetic acid, 2 fl. oz., imeviously mixed together. After the fluid has passed through, it will be found that the debris has retained | by absorption 7 fl. oz., which must be displaced j by the gradual addition of methylated spirits j of wine, 7 fl. oz. If properly managed, there | is not the least danger of the admixture of j the spirits with the percolated menstruum, as i the animal substance of the flies swells con- siderably under the prolonged influence of the spirits of wine, so that the same bulk will be I insufficient to quite displace the ether. The ethereal solution should be made to measure exactly 15 fl. oz. with a little spirit, and may then be converted into a collodion by the addition of pyroxyline, ^ oz. Obs. The glacial acid plays a double part in this preparation. It dissolves the can- i tharidin, and at the same time gives to the collodion fllm the essential property of porosity. ’ Ordinary collodion is useless as an excipient, i for it produces a tough and contractile film, which really screens the skin from the action of the greater part of the blistering material. 2. (IHsch.) Cantharidine, 1^ gr.; pyroxy- line, 20 gr.; rectified ether, 1^- oz.; acetic ether, i oz.; dissolve. 3. (Hlttinger.) Ether of cantharides and collodion, equal parts. Use. Vesicating collodion is used as an irritant. No. 1 was introduced in 1862, and has many advantages over the other t-wo. Mr. Tichborne thus described the most effec- tual method of using it in the Pharm. Joum.: —“ The part upon which the blister is to be i raised should be painted with the vesicant to i the desired extent, bearing in mind that the blister produced always extends to about one tenth of an inch beyond the margin of the space covered. Care should be taken to give a coating of considerable thickness, and to ensure this result the brush should be passed over and over again, until about ^dr. has been f used to the square inch, or less Avhen operat- 1 ing upon a tender epidermis. It is desirable j to place over the intended blister a piece of I oil silk, or, what is still better, a piece of sheet 1 gutta jjercha, somewhat larger than the sur- face painted, as this will stop the exhalations of the skin, and so render it moist and per- meable. In ten minutes, or a quarter of an ! hour if the cuticle is hard, the collodion should be wiped oft' with a little cotton-wool moistened with etber, when the blister will | almost instantly rise.” COL'LOID. See Dialysis. COLLYR'IA. [L.] In medicine and j)har- macy, topical remedies for diseases of the eye. Formerly the term collyrium was applied to any medicament employed to restrain de- fluxions. Dry Collyr'ium. Syn. Eye powdee; Col- LYR'iUM sic'cuM, L. Prep. 1. (Dupuytren.) White sugar, 1 dr.; red oxide of mercury, || | 10 gr.; oxide of zinc, 20 gr.; mix. 2. (Lagneau.) Sugar candy, 2 parts; ni- trate of potassa, 1 part.