EXTRACT. 607 I moistened with strong alcohol.” By ope- i rating in this way a considerable portion of I the activity of narcotic vegetables is lost. I Some of their juices, as that of aconite, are I impaired in so short a time as scarcely to com- pensate for the trouble of preparing them. , This deterioration does not, however, take 1 place in any remarkable degree, if the ex- pressed juice from the recent vegetable be I evaporated by exposing it in a thin stratum to \ a current qf^ very dry air, as adopted by Mr. j Squire. This may be managed by putting i the juice into small, flat trays or dishes, placed on shelves in a suitably arranged appa- 1 ratus, alternated with similar vessels of con- ! centrated sulphuric acid; or by causing a j current of very dry air, at the common tem- , perature of the atmosphere, to pass over them. I It has been shown that 10 gr. of extract, thus prepared, were more than equal to 20 gr. pre- 1 pared in vacuo ; and to more than 60 gr., and, I in some cases, 90 gr., of those prepared by the ; common process of boiling down the juice to an extract. The concluding portion of the process of extract-making, technically termed ‘finish- i iNa OFF,’ requires the most scrupulous atten- jtion. As the evaporation advances, the heat \should he lessened,pLml soon as the extract 1 acquires the consistence of thick treacle, it : should be removed altogether, and the re- imainder of fluid matter evaporated by the I heat retained by the copper pan, the escape of j vapour being promoted by assiduous and la- fborious stirring with a suitably shaped wooden (spatula. This part of the process should be j continued until a proper consistence is attained land the extract is nearly cold. When high- \pressure steam or a chloride of calcium hath is : employed, care must be taken to withdraw the heat before stirring the semi-liquid mass; as, j if an extract having a temperature of about jthe boiling-point of water, or even a few j degrees below it, is agitated, it becomes full 1 of bubbles, and ap^jears rough and puffy, and I this appearance cannot be removed by subse- 1 quent stirring, or by any method but re- j dissolving it in water and re-evaporation. I This is especially the case with the extracts I of sarsaparilla (simple and compound), gentian, I liquorice, and most others of a similar class. I A good laboratory man knows from experience the proper time for the removal of the heat, but unpractised persons often fail in this par- ' ticular. In such cases, should the heat re- ; tained by the evaporating pan, and by the I e.xtract, prove insufficient to complete the ' process, a little more may be cautiously applied, i Without assiduous and laborious stirring in the way described, a very smooth and glossy I extract cannot be produced. To promote this I artificial appearance, some persons add 3g or 4g 1 each of olive oil and gum arabic, dissolved in water, with about 1§ or 2g of spirit of wine. The consistence of the ordinary extracts of the shops is the same as that of electuaries and confections, and is described in the Ph. E. as equal to that “ of thick honey^ The in- structions of the Ph. L. and D., to evaporate the mass until it acquires a consistence proper for making pills,” except in 2 or 3 cases (as Ext. Colocynth. Comp., &c.), is not adopted, and indeed would be found inconvenient in practice. Extracts evaporated to such a con- sistence are commonly termed ‘pilular ex- tracts and when evaporated so that they are quite dry, and brittle when cold, they are called ‘hard extracts^ (exteacta dcjea, L.). Pres. Extracts should be put into pots as soon as taken from the pan, and, after being carefully and securely tied over with bladder, should be ‘ stored^ in a dry situation. The London College orders “a small quantity of rectified spirit to be sprinkled upon all the softer extracts, to prevent them becoming mouldy.” A better way is to employ a little spirit, holding in solution a few drops of oil of cloves, or a still less quantity of creasote. This should be added to them the last thing before removing them from the evaporating pan, and when they are nearly cold. The same object is effected by moistening the inside of the bladder (used to tie them over) with a few drops of oil of cloves or creasote. Hard ex- tracts should be kept in bladders or gut skins, placed in stone pots, and well covered over. With care, extracts prepared from recent ve- getable substances may be preserved twelve months, or from season to season; and those from dry ingredients, or such as are less in- clined to spoil, for perhaps double that time j but beyond these periods their virtues cannot be relied on, and they should consequently be discarded, if remaining unused or unsold. Pur., 8fc. The quality of an extract cannot be ascertained by mere inspection, nor is it readily d iscovered by chemical tests. A know- ledge of these facts has induced the merce- nary and fraudulent manufacturer to employ damaged and inferior drugs in their prepara- tion, alike regardless of the welfare of the patient and the credit of the practitioner. A common practice with some manufacturers is, not only to pick out the least expensive variety of every drug for the preparation of their extracts, but the most inferior and often damaged and worthless portion of this already inferior article. The production of a smooth, bright, and glossy extract is all that is usually attempted by these individuals, and all that is sought after by the mass of purchasers, who mistake the simulation of the mere external signs of good quality for its actual existence. It is a fact, which we can verify from extensive experience in the laboratory, and from years of practical observation on this point, that extracts faithfully prepared from good ma- terials do not possess the sightly and pleasing appearance of those commonly vended by the wholesale druggists. On comparing the ex- tracts prepared by different metropolitan houses, we have found that those which have