KALI—KERMES MINERAL. 809 David Brewster, which presents to the eye a series of symmetrical changing views. It is formed as follows :—Two slips of silvered glass, from 6 to 10 inches long, and from 1 to 1^ inch wide, and rather narrower at one end than the other, are joined together lengthwise, by on6 of their edges, by means of a piece of silk or cloth, glued on their back; they are then placed in a tube of tin or pasteboard, blackened inside, and a little longer than is necessary to contain them, and are fixed by means of small pieces of cork, with their faces at any angle to each other that is an even aliquot part of 4 right angles {as the &c.). The one end of the tube is then closed with an opaque screen, or cover, through which a small eyehole is made in the centre; and the other end is fitted, first with a plate of common glass, and at the distance of about gth of an inch, with a plain piece of slightly ground glass, parallel to the former; in the inter- mediate space or cell are placed the objects to form the images. These consist of coloured pieces of glass, glass beads, or any other coloured diaphanous bodies, sufficiently small to move freely in the cell, and to assume new positions when the tube is shaken or turned round. A tube so prepared presents an infinite number of changing and symmetrical pictures, no one of which can be exactly reproduced. This toy is so easily constructed, is so very inex- pensive, and at the same time so capable of affording an almost inexhaustible fund of amusement to the young, that we advise our juvenile friends to try their hands at its con- struction. Any common tube of tin or paste- board may be used, and strips of glass smoked on one side will answer for mirrors. EA'LI. The name formerly applied to a spe- cies of Salsola employed for making baeilla. It is sometimes used as a designation for the crude alkalies, and is the German synonym for ^ potassa.^ Acid'ulated Kali. Syn. Lemon and kali, Lemoniated k. a common preparation of the shops for making a pleasant eff’ervescing draught. It is sometimes incorrectly styled ‘ citrate of potash.’ Prep. 1. Sesquicar- bonate of soda and tartaric acid, of each, 5 az.; lump sugar, 1 lb.; all in the state of fine powder, and separately dried by a very gentle heat, after which they are mixed together, flavoured with essence of lemon, 1 dr., rubbed through a gauze sieve in a warm dry situation, put into bottles, and corked down immedi- ately. 2. Finely powdered white sugar, 16 lb.; tartaric acid, 4^ lb.; sesquicarbonate rf soda, 4 lb.; essence of lemon, 1 oz.; as the last. Keeps well. A dessert-spoonful of either thrown into a glassful of water makes a plea- sant effervescing draught. KALISACCHAR'IC ACID. See Glucic Acid. KA"LIUM. [L.] Potassium. KAL'YDOE. A cosmetic lotion; it resem- bles ‘ Gowland’s Lotion,’ but is got up in a rather more pleasing style. See Lotion. KA'OLIN. Syn. China clat, Porcelain C. A fine white clay, derived from the decom- position of the felspar of granitic rocks. The potteries and porcelain works of this country are chiefly supplied with this substance from extensive tracts of it which occur near St. Austle, Cornwall. See Clay. KAP'NOMOR. Syn. Capnomoe. A colour- less oil obtained from crude kreasote by dis- tillation with potassa. It boils at 360° Fahr.; has a peculiar odour, and is insoluble in water, but readily soluble in an alkaline solution of kreasote. KATAL'YSIS. Syn. Catalysis, Contact ACTION. Terms applied to a class of chemical actions in which the decomposition, and the recombination of the elements of compound bodies, is excited by the mere presence of, or contact with, other bodies, which do not them- selves suffer such a change. The mode of pre- paring oxygen gas, by heating a mixture of chlorate of potassa and binoxide of manganese or black oxide of copper, is a familiar example of this force. The salt is decomposed at a temperature very far lower than would be re- quired if it were heated alone; yet the oxide is not in the slightest degree altered, and is found after the experiment in the same state as it was before. It may, indeed, be employed for the same purpose, any number of times. KELP. The alkaline ashes obtained by burning various species of sea-weed, formerly much used for the preparation of carbonate OF SODA. The weeds most valued for the purpose are the Fucus vesiculosus, nodosus, and serratus,?iXidi the Laminaria bulbosa oxiddigitata. Of late years, the manufacture of kelp, like that of barilla, has been almost abandoned, except as a source of iodine. Mr. E. C. C. Stanford, by carefully collecting and com- pressing the weed, and afterwards submitting it to dry distillation, doubles the yield of iodine and bromine, and obtains in addition various valuable hydrocarbons. See Barilla, Iodine, Soda, &c. KER'MES. Syn. Keemes-grains, Al- KERMESj Geanijm tinctoridm, L. The dried bodies of the female Coccus Ilicis of Linnaeus, a small insect of the order Hemiptera, which flourishes on the Ilex oak. It has been used as a red and scarlet dye-stuff ever since the time of Moses; but is now superseded in this country by cochineal, which gives colours of much greater brilliancy. KER'MES MIM'ERAL. Syn. Kermes MiNERALE, K. MiNEEALis, L. An amorphous tersulphuret of antimony, containing a small admixture of teroxide of antimony and sul- phuret of potassium. Prep 1. In the hu- mid WAY.—a. (P. Cod.) Carbonate of soda (crj'st.), 128 parts {say, 21 parts), is dissolved in water, 1280 parts {say. 210 parts), contained in a cast-iron pan; tersulphuret of antimony (in fine powder), 6 parts {say, 1 part), is next