ATOMIC VOLUMES—ATROPIA. 214 who gave us the first true idea of ‘ atomic weights ^ or ‘ equivalents.’ Richter and Fischer’s numbers were unsupported by “ a rational theory from the phenomena.” “ He (Dalton) introduced proportional weights into the theory, and found it to agree with/ac/s. His is, therefore, the quantitative atomic theory.” ^ The theory in question has rendered incal- culable service to chemical science. Its intro- duction at once gave an impetus to inquiry and investigation, which have contributed very largely to define and fix the laws of combina- tion themselves; whilst it has rendered cer- tain and economical a multitude of productive processes and manufactures which were before wasteful, and, in very many cases, founded on imperfect experiments, or on blind con- jectures and assumptions. Yet notwithstand- ing these admissions, “ it is indispensable to draw the broadest possible line of distinction between this, which is at the best but a graceful, ingenious, and, in its place, useful hypothesis, and those great general laws of chemical action which are the pure and unmixed results of inductive research.”^ See Apfinitt, Combination, Equivalent, Foemula, &c. Atomic Theory (of Gerhardt). The hypo- thesis which assumes that the atoms of elemen- tary bodies in the' state of gas or vapour, and under precisely similar conditions of tempera- ture and pressure, have invariably the same volume; and hence, that the atomic weights of these bodies must correspond to their ‘ spe- cific gravities’ when in the state of gas or vapour. It also assumes that the elementary atoms are incapable of existing in the free state, and that wherever they are liberated from combination, they combine, so to say, with themselves, in the nascent state, or at the moment of separation, forming pairs of atoms, which may be called the ‘molecules’ of the respective elements. Under this theory, an ELEMENTAEY ATOM is the Smallest quantity of an element which can combine with another body; an elementaey molecule, the small- est quantity of a body which can exist in the free state. See Equivalents (Gerhardt’s).^ ATOMIC VOL'UMES. See Atomic Theoey (Gerhardt’s), Equivalents (Gerhardt’s), Equivalents (Volumetrical). ATOMIC WEIGHTS. See Atomic Theoey {above) and Equivalents. ATONIC. Syn. Aton'icus, L.; Atonique, Fr.; Atonisch, Schlaef, Ger. Weak; de- bilitated: deficient in tone or strength. In pathology, applied to diseases or conditions of the body (atonic diseases ; atony) in which debility is the leading feature. In pharma- cology, ATONICS are agents which relax or lower the tone of the system. AT'ONY. Syn. Ato'nia, L. ; Atonie, &c., 1 “ Memoirs of Bait on” by Dr. Angus Smitli. 2 Eowne’s “Manual of Chemistry8th ed., p. 213. 2 For a full development of this beautiful and all but demonstrable theory, the reader may consult the “ Introd. a Vetude de la Chimie par le Sys. Unitaire,” and the “ I'ralle de Chimie Organiquef par Charles Gerhardt. [ Fr., Ger. In pathology, loss of tone, relaxa- tion, morbid diminution of vital energy or power; commonly applied to debility of any kind. AT'ROPHY (-fe). Syn. Ateo'phia, L.; Ateophie, &c., Fr.; Ateophie, Ger. In pa- thology, wasting or emaciation, with loss of strength, and unaccompanied by fever or other sensible cause; defective nutrition ; decline. Classif, causes, 8fc. It is either local, as in the case of a limb which is small, imperfectly developed, or withered; or general, affecting the whole body. Gen'eeal ateophy appears to depend on deficient nutrition, arising from a want of due balance between the functions of assimilation and absorption, or from profuse evacuations draining otf the materials neces- sary for the suj)port of the body. In the for- mer case only may it be regarded as an inde- pendent disease. Lo'cal ateophy commonly arises from some cause which lessens the nor- mal circulation of blood in the part; or from a diminution of the nervous infiuence, as in paralysis. General atrophy is most frequent in infancy, childhood, and old age. In the first two it may be often traced to bad nursing, worms, or a scrofulous taint; and not unfre- quently, to continually inhaling impure or damp air. In adults, the causes are impaired digestion and imperfect action of the chyli- ferous organs, and sometimes diseased action of the liver. In many cases it results from the use of tobacco. Treatm. This consists in a close attention to diet (which should be liberal and nutritious), exercise, clothing, ventilation, warmth, &c., with gentle stimulants, and chalybeate tonics where not contra-indicated; and, in the case i of adults, the moderate use of pure generous i wine or malt-liquor. Among special remedies, both in this disease and ancemia, may be men- tioned the medicinal hypophosphites'^ and pure , sweet cod-liver oil, which seldom fail to arrest or greatly retard the progress of the disease, and in very many cases effect an entire cure. I When this affection is symptomatic of any other disease, as worms, stomach or liver com- plaints, &c., the removal of the latter must of course be first attempted. See An.®mia, Chloeosis, Tabes, &c. ATRO'TIA ( trope'-y’a). [L.; Ph. L.] Syn. At'eopine (pm; sometimes atro'pineX), Eng., Fr.; Ateopi'na, Ateo”pium*, L. An al- kaloid discovered by Brandes in at'ropa bella- don'na or deadly nightshade. Prep. 1. Expressed juice of belladonna is evaporated over a water-bath to the consis- tence of an extract, and then triturated in a marble or porcelain mortar with a strong so- lution of caustic potassa ; the resulting mass is digested and well agitated for some time, at the temperature of 75 to 80° Fahr., with benzole, q. s.; and, after repose, the ‘benzole- 4 Hypophosphite of lime, potassa, or soda; or better still, when not contra-indicated, h. of iron, or a combination I of h. of i. and h. of quinine. See these articles.