36 ACIDIMETRY. use an excess, so as to leave some undecomposed after the operation is concluded. Either salt may contain a little chloride of sodium, or alkaline sulphate; hut the absence of a neutral carbonate is a sine qua non in the process. A piece of litmus paper plunged into the liquid in A wUl not be reddened if the process has been properly managed. The above methods deserve a preference, over those previously described, “ only in the case of coloured liquids, in which the reaction of litmus cannot be distinctly observed.” (Eresenius.) b. VOLUMETEICALLT :— 1. (Method of Dr. Ure.) This depends upon the same principles as the preceding. Such a quantity of the acid sample for examination is taken that, were it pure, would liberate from bicarbonate of soda exactly 10,000 water- grains measure of gaseous carbonic acid; and from weaker samples a number of grains- measure corresponding to their content of real acid. The liberated gas is measured in a cylinder having zero (0) for the top of its scale, which is graduated downwards, and accurately divided into 100 parts or measures j by which the operator is enabled, by mere inspection, to ‘read off^ theper-centage of real acid in the sample under examination. The modus operandi will be readily understood on (rt.) A graduated glass cylinder, capable of holding 10,000 water-grains measure, which, before commencing the assay, is charged with water, on which a layer of olive oil is poured of about ^ to 1 inch in tliickness, so that the level corresponds exactly to the zero (0) of the scale. (i.) A small flask into which the bicarbonate of soda (about 50 gr.), with a little water, is introduced; and sub- sequently the— (c.) Small glass tube containing the weighed sample of acid for examination. (</.), {d.) Are small glass tubes passing air-tight through the corks of the flask and cylinder. (e.) Discharge pipe by which the water, pressed out by the evolved gas, escapes. (./•)> (/•) Connecting tubes formed of vulcanised India- rubber. an inspection of the accompanying engr., which represents the modified and improved form of apparatus proposed, we believe, by Dr. Normandy, one of the editors of the last edition of the “ Diet, of Arts, Manuf, and Mines.” The operation is terminated when, all the acid in the test-tube having been completely upset, and all effervescence being entirely at an end, the level of the oil in the graduated glass cylinder remains stationary. The number of the division of the gi’aduated scale corresponding to that ‘ level,’ gives the per- centage strength sought. The quantity of carbonic acid expelled from a bicarbonate by an equiv. of any acid, is 23,810 water-grains measure; and therefore— 23.810 : {XS} ^ ^ 10,000 By this rule are obtained the numbers in— Table IV. Grains. Acetic acid (anhydrous) .... 21'42 ,, (monohydrated or glacial) 25*20 Citric acid (crystallised) .... 28*14 Hydrochloric acid (dry, ga,seous) . 15*33 Nitric acid (anhydrous) .... 22*67 Sulphuric acid (anhydrous) . . . 16*80 „ „ (sp. gr. 1*8485) . 20*58 Tartaric acid (crystallised) . . . 31*50 III. From the Specific Gravity :— The strength of all the liquid acids may be estimated, with more or less accuracy, from their specific gravity. When this plan is apidicable, it will be found described under the respective acids, where also per-centage and sp. gr. Tables are given. General Commentary. The preceding sketch of the principal methods of acidimetry has been written with the view of placing the whole subject before the reader in a simple and practical form. In proceeding as described under I. a. 1., and I. b., the choice of the re- agent must chiefly depend on the operator. Some parties prefer the ammonia-test, before alluded to, which is very convenient, and easily applied; whilst others, give a preference to one of the carbonates or bicarbonates of soda or potassa. “The proportion of any one free acid in any substance may be determined, by the ammonia-test, with precision, true to l-50th of a grain, in less than five minutes.” (Ure.) Whichever re-agent is adopted, care must be taken that it be perfectly pure, so far as the points already mentioned are concerned. A test-solution may be prepared in any quan- tity, and when once carefully prepared of the proper strength, may be kept unharmed for any length of time, in a stoppered bottle; and will then be always ready for application wherever a good pair of scales, or a graduated tube, is to be found. Care, however, must be taken to shake the store-bottle each time before pouring from its contents; as otherwise, owing to the condensation of vapour on the upper part of the bottle, the portion first