872 MAGNESIA. 4. Ammonia in neutral solutions occasions a | u'hite hulk]] ■precijntate, but in solutions con-j taining free acid, or ammonical sails, gives no precipitate.—5. Phosphate of soda alone occa- sions no precipitate in very dilute solutions; hut if ammonia he added, a crystalline pre- cipitate, insoluble in ammoniacal salts, hut soluble in free acids, is formed in highly diluted solutions. Estim. It may he thrown down in the form of carbonate, and after being washed, dried, and strongly ignited in a platinum crvicihle for 2 hours, may be weighed as pure magnesia. Uses, Calcined magnesia is chiefly em- ployed in medicine. It is antacid and laxa- tive, and its general action resembles that of the alkalies. It is exhibited in heartburn, diarrhoea, constipation of children, gout, &c. Its continued use, however, is not unaccom- panied with danger, as instances are recorded in which it has accumulated in the intestines, and produced very serious consequences. Dose, As an antacid, a teaspoonful; as a purgative, \ dr, to 2 dr. or more. Combined with rhu- barb, it is a favourite purge for infants. Ac'etate of Magnesia. Syn. Magnestje ACETAS, L. Very soluble, deliquescent, and difficultly crystallizable. Car'honate of Magnesia. Syn. Stjbcae- BONATE OE MAGNESIA* ; MAGNESIA CAEBONAS (Ph. L. E. & D.), M. SEBCAEBONAS, M. ALBA, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Sulphate of magnesia, 41b., and carbonate of soda, 41b. 9 oz,; boiling distilled water, 4 gall.; dissolve the salts sepa- rately in one half the water, filter, mix the solutions, and boil for 2 hours, constantly stir- ring with a spatula, distilled water being fre- quently added to compensate for that lost by evaporation; lastly, the solution being poured off, wash the precipitated powder with boiling distilled water, and dry it. The formulae of the Ph. E. & D. are essentially the same, except that the ebullition is limited to from 10 to 20 minutes. 2. (Ph. D. 1826.) Sulphate of magnesia, 25 parts; carbonate of potassa, 24 parts; boiling water, 400 parts; as the last, but merely boil- ing for ‘ a short time.’ 3. (Henet’s.) Ordinary carbonate of mag- nesia, the washing of which has been finished with a little rose water. 4. Add a solution of carbonate of potassa or soda to the bittern or residuary liquor of the sea-salt works, and well wash and dry the precipitate as before. This is known in com- merce as ‘ Scotch magnesia.’ Obs. The carbonate of magnesia of com- merce is usually made up into cakes or dice, while drying; or it is permitted to drain and dry in masses, which are then cut into squares with a thin knife. It is powdered by simply rubbing it through a wdre sieve. The pre- sence of iron in the solution of the sulphate of magnesia, when the crude salt is employed, and which is destructive to the beauty of the preparation may be got rid of by the addition I of lime water until the liquor acquires a slight j alkaline reaction and subsequent decantation after repose. 5. (Heavy caebonate oe magnesia; Magnesia caebonas pondeeosa, L.)~a. (Apothecaries’ Hall.) A saturated solution of sulphate of magnesia, 1 part, is diluted with water, 3 parts, and the mixture heated to the boiling-point; a cold saturated solution of car- bonate of soda, 1 part {all by measure), is then added, and the Avhole is boiled w’itli constant agitation until effervescence ceases; boiling xcater is next freely poured in, and after assi- duous stirring for a few minutes, and repose, the clear liquid is decanted, and the precipi- tate thrown on a linen cloth and thoroughly washed with hot water; it is, lastly, drained, and dried in an iron pot. b. (Ph. D.) Dissolve sulphate of magnesia, 10 oz., in boiling distilled water, f pint; and carbonate of soda (cryst.), 12 oz., in boiling dis- tilled water, 1 pint; mix the two solutions, and evaporate the whole to dryness by the heat of a sand hath; then add of boiling water, 1 quart, digest wdth agitation for half an hour, and wash the insoluble residuum as before; lastly, drain it, and dry it at the temperature of boiling water. Prop. The ordinary or light carbonate of magnesia is a white, inodorous, tasteless pow- der, possessing similar properties to calcined magnesia, except effervescing with acids, and having less saturating power. An ounce mea- sure is filled by 45 to 48 gr. of the powder lightly placed in it. The heavy carbonate is sometimes fully thrice as dense (see below), but in other respects is similar. Dose. As an antacid, \ to a wdiole teaspoonful, 3 or 4 times daily ; as a laxative, ^ dr. to 2 dr. It is commonly taken in milk. It is apt to produce flatulence, but in other respects is preferable to calcined magnesia. Pur. “ It is soluble in dilute sulphuric acid. From this solution, when the effervescence has ceased, nothing is thrown down by bicarbonate of potassa. Water in which it has been boiled does not change the colour of turmeric paper to brown, nor is anything thrown down on the addition of chloride of barium or nitrate of silver.” (Ph. L.) By solution in dilute sul- phuric acid, 100 parts lose 36’6 parts by weight.” (Ph. L. 1836.) General remarks. Although commonly called ‘ carbonate of magnesia,’ the above substance, whether in the light or heavy form, appears to be a compound of carbonate with hydrate, in proportions which are not per- fectly constant. On account of the excess of base in its composition, it w'as formerly re- garded as a subsalt (sebcaebonate oe mag- nesia). A great deal has been written use- lessly respecting the preparation of these carbonates, about which, however, there is neither mystery nor difficulty, as some writers would lead their readers to suppose. If the solutions are very dilute, the precipitate is