419 CERINE—CHALK. CE'BIKE. (Brodie.) When pure wax (bleached) is digested in boiling alcohol for some time, a solution of mteicine and cerine is formed. The former is deposited as the liquid cools, and the latter may he obtained i by evaporating the decanted portion. Cerine, ! which consists almost entirely of a fatty acid called CEROTic, is a white, crystallizable sub- j stance, soluble in 16 parts of boiling alcohol; i it fuses at 144° Eahr.; and is readily saponi- i fied with caustic alkaline lyes. It greatly resembles white wax, of which, indeed, it forms . from 70^ to 80g. I CE'RIUM. A metal discovered in 1803 by t Hisinger and Berzelius, in the mineral named ' cerite. It is obtained in combination with two other metals called by Mosander Lantha- I nium and Didymium. The mixed oxides may j be procured by dissolving calcined and pow- j dered cerite in nitro-hydrochloric acid, filtering, I neutralizing with pure potassa, and then pre- cipitating with tartrate of potassa. The pow- der that falls down is next washed, and calcined. The mixed oxides may be separated by solution in nitric acid, evaporation, and calci- nation. The mass previously powdered is then to be digested in water containing 2g of nitric acid; the uiidissolved portion is oxide I OF CEBiUM. The solution contains the oxides j OF LANTHANiUM and DIDYMIUM. These may I be obtained as carbonates by adding a solution j of carbonate of potassa. The precipitate, dis- ' solved in sulphuric acid in excess, and slowly I crystallized, yields rose-coloured crystals of I SULPHATE OF DIDYMIUM, and violet ones con- taining lanthanium and didymium. By adding ' 1 the latter to the mother liquor, and repeating the process, the whole of the didymium salt \ I may be separated by crystallization, leaving \ SULPHATE OF LANTHANIUM behind. The combinations of these metals are but , little known, and are now the subject of inves- j tigation. Various compounds with the acids, sulphur, and chlorine, have been formed. CE'ROMEL. Prep. (Van Mons.) Bees’ wax, 1 oz.; honey, 4 oz.; melt together and stir until cold. An excellent application to irri- table ulcers, abraided surfaces, sore nipples, &c. CERO'TIC ACID. See Cerine. CERO'TYLE. The theoretical base of cerotic ^ acid and cerotylic alcohol, — according to If Brodie. The latter compound may be ob- tained by treating Chinese wax with potassa ; cerotate of potassa and cerotylic alcohol are simultaneously formed. CE'TINE. Chevreul applied this name to pure spermaceti. Prep. Dissolve spermaceti in boiling alcohol, and collect the crystals that are deposited as the solution cools. Bright pearly crystals, melting at 120°, and subliming at 670° Fahr. See Spermaceti. CETRARIC ACID. Syn. Cetrar'ine. The bitter principle of Iceland moss {Cetraria Islandica). It exists, in the free state, in the cortical portion of the thallus. Prep. 1. Iceland moss (bruised), 1 part; rectified spirit, 6 parts; boil in a covered vessel for half an hour; express the liquor whilst hot, filter, and distil off the spirit; re- dissolve the residuum in boiling alcohol, decant the clear, and let the solution cool slowly; lastly collect the crystals and preserve them out of contact with air. 2. (Herberger.) Iceland moss (in coarse powder), 1 lb.; alcohol (’883), 4 lb.; boil as before, cool until vapours cease to rise, express the tincture, add hydrochloric acid, 3 dr., (dissolved in) water, 2 oz.; let it rest for a night in a closed matrass ; then decant, throw the deposit on a filter, press it in bibulous paper, and whilst still moist, wash it with both alcohol and ether; lastly, purify it by digestion in boiling alcohol, as before. Prop., &fc. Pure cetraric acid occurs under the form of minute, shining, acicular crystals; it is intensely bitter, non-volatile, scarcely soluble in water, ether, and cold alcohol; soluble in alkaline solutions forming soluble salts, which give a red colour with the per- salts of iron, and a yellow one with acetate of lead. These compounds are called cetrarates. Dose. 2 to 4 gr. every three hours, as a febri- fuge ; 1 to 3 gr. thrice daily, as a tonic. CE'TYLE. The theoretical base of the cetyl-compounds. Pure spermaceti (cetine) is said to be cetylate of oxide of cetyle. Sperma- ceti is saponified with great diflBculty, and yields by the process a crystallizable fat {ce- tylic alcohol), and palmitic acid. The second body may be procured from the first by oxi- dation, and the two resemble in their chemical relations those of acetic acid and ordinary alcohol. CHA'BERT’S OIL. ' Syn. Chabert’s empy- REUMAT'iC OIL; O'LEUM EMPYREUMAT'ICUM ChABERTI, 0. CONTRA T.ENIAM ChABERTI, L. Prep. (Ph. Bor. 1847.) From empyreumatic oil of hartshorn, 1 part; oil of turpentine, 3 parts; mix and distil over three fourths only in a glass retort, and keep it in well-stopped bottles. In tape-worm. Dose. Two teaspoon- fuls in water, night and morning, until 4 to 6 or even 7 oz. have been taken; a cathartic being also administered from time to time. CHAIRS. The black leather work of chairs, settees, &c., may be restored by first well washing off the dirt with a little warm soap and water, and afterwards with clean water. The brown and faded portions may now be restrained by means of a little black ink, or preferably, black reviver, and when this has got thoroughly dry, they may be touched over with white of egg, stained and mixed with a little sugar-candy. When the surface is nearly dry, it should be polished oflF with a clean brush. CHALK. Syn. Soft carbonate of lime. Earthy c. of l.; Cre'ta, L. Chalk is largely used in the arts and manufactures, and in medicine. The natural varieties are remark- able for the fossils which they contain. The