SODIUM. 1212 when the mixture is at a “ fluxing heat,” 10 lb. of feathered block tin is stirred in with an iron rod, both the stirring and heat being continued until the mass becomes red hot and pasty,” and ammoniacal fumes are given off. The product may be purified by solution and crystallization. Patented. (See below.) Stan'nite of Soda. Prep. (Greenwood & Co.) From caustic soda, 13^ lb.; feathered block tin and common salt, of each, 4 lb.; as the last. Patented. Both the above are used to prepare TIN MOEDANTS (about 12 oz. to Water 1 gall.). The STANNATE and stannite of potassa are prepared in a similar manner. Sulphate of Soda. Syn. Glaijbee’s salt ; SoDJE SULPHAS (Ph. L. E. & D.), Sal cathae- Ticus GLAUBEEif, L. This is obtained as a secondary product in various chemical pro- cesses ; but it may be easily formed directly from its constituents. Prep. (Ph. L. 1836.) Dissolve 2 lb. of the salt left in distilling muriatic acid in 1 quart of boiling water, neutralize the solution with carbonate of lime, evaporate, and crys- tallize. Prop., 8fc. It forms transparent, six-sided, irregular, channelled prisms, with dihedral summits, which effloresce in the air, and fall to an opaque white powder; soluble in about 3 parts of water at 60°, and in considerably less at 100° Pahr., but at a higher temperature its solubility rapidly lessens; insoluble in alco- hol ; fuses when heated. It is seldom wilfully adulterated. When pure, the solution is neu- tral to test paper; nitrate of silver throws down scarcely anything from a dilute solution; nitrate of baryta more, which is not dissolved by nitric acid. It loses 55*5g of its weight by a strong heat. (Ph. L.) Uses. It is purgative, but, being extremely bitter-tasted, is now less frequently used than formerly. Its nauseous flavour is said to be covered by lemon juice. Dose. ^ to 1 or. The dried salt (sodje sulphas exsiccata) is twice as strong. Lymington Glaubee’s salt is a mixture of the sulphates of soda and potassa obtained from the mother-liquor of sea-salt. Obs. A BISULPHATE OF SODA is also pre- pared by adding oil of vitriol, 7 parts, to the anhydrous neutral sulphate, 10 parts, evapo- rating to dryness, and gently igniting. Tar'trate of Soda. Syn. Sodas taeteas, L. See Effeevescing Powdees {page 1135). Vale"rianate of Soda. Syn. Sod^ vale- EiANAS (Ph. D.), L. Prep., (Ph. D.) Dilute oil of vitriol, 6^ fl. oz., with water, | pint; then dissolve oi powdered bichromate of potassa, 9 oz., with the aid of heat, in water, 3^ pints; when both solutions have cooled, put them into a matrass, and having added of fusel oil (alcohol amylicum—Ph. D.), 4 fl. oz., shake them together repeatedly until the tem- perature, which first rises to 150°, has fallen to 80° or 90° Fahr.; a condenser being connected, next apply heat so as to distil over about 4 pints of liquid; Saturate this exactly witl pint, or q. s., of solution of caustic soda, sej rate the liquid from the oil which floats up the surface, and evaporate it until the residi salt is partially liquefied; the heat being U(' withdrawn, and the salt concreted, this la whilst still warm, is to be divided into fra ments, and preserved in well-stopped bottles Obs. This salt is intended 'so be used in t preparation of the valeeianates of iec quinine, and zinc. SO'DIUM. Syn. Nateium. The metal base of soda. It was first obtained by IS H. Davy, in 1807, by means of a powerl galvanic battery; but it may be more conv niently and cheaply procured, in quantity, the method described under Potassium. T process, when well conducted, is, howev. much easier and more certain than that for t last-named metal. Prep. The anhydrous carbonate of soda ( its equiv.), 6 parts, is dissolved in a lit water, and the solution mixed with charcL in fine powder, 2 parts, and charcoal small lumps, 1 part; the whole is then ev porated to dryness, transferred to an ir retort, and treated in the manner (^escribed page 1120. Obs. Very important improvements ha been made in the manufacture of this metal Deville, consisting partly in the simplificati of the receiver, and partly in the addition carbonate of lime to the mixture, which a dition appears to facilitate the reduction of t sodium in a most remarkable manner. Prop., 8fc. Sodium is a soft silver-whi metal, scarcely solid at common temperatur fuses at 194° Fahr., and volatilizes at a r heat; it oxidizes very rapidly in the air; wh placed on the surface of cold water, it decoi poses that liquid with great violence, h generally without flame, in which it difF( from potassium ; on hot water it burns witl bright yellow flame—in both cases a soluti' of pure soda being formed. Sp. gr. *972; it more malleable than any other metal, and m be easily reduced into very thin leaves (U« its other properties resemble those of poh sium, but are of a feebler character. Wi oxygen it forms a protoxide (anhydeo soda), and a binoxide; with chlorine, a ch ride (common salt); and—with broinii iodine, fluorine, sulphur, &c., bromide, iodit fluoride, sulphuret, &c., all of which may obtained by similar processes to the respecti compounds of potassium, which, for the me' part, they resemble. Uses. Until recently, sodium has been i garded as a mere chemical or philosophic curiosity; it has now, however, become great practical importance, from being ei ployed in the manufacture of the metal al MINIUM. Chlo"ride of Sodium. Syn. Mueiate < soDAf, Common salt, Culinaey s., Sea-s SODII CHLOEIDUM (Ph. L. & D.), SOD^ M