BELLY—BENZOIC ACID. 302 and larynx.^ See ALKALOID, Atkopia, Bel- ladonna {above), &c. BELL'Y (-e). The abdomen (which see). BELTS. In their connection with ‘ health ’ and ‘disease,* see Bandage, Deess, Stays, &c. BENGAL' (-gawl'). A thin fabric of silk and hair interwoven, originally from BevgaV. Ben'gal Light. A firework used as signals. See Fiees (Coloured). Ben'gal Stripes. Cotton cloth woven with coloured stripes, orig. from Bengal; gingham. BEN'JAMlNf*. Benzoin. BENZ-. A prefix in the names of substances assumed to contain ‘ benzoyle.* BEN'ZAMIDE (-mid). lben2{oy\e)-amide.'] A substance which sometimes separates from the essential oil of bitter almonds; but w^hich may also be formed artificially. Prep. Pure chloride of benzoyle is saturated with dry ammoniacal gas, which it absorbs w'ith energy; the resulting ‘ dry white mass ’ is re- duced to powder, and then thoroughly washed with very cold water, to remove the ‘ sal am- moniac * formed during the process; the resi- duum, dissolved in boiling water, yields crystals of BENZAMIDE as the solution cools. Prop., S(c. Crystals, colourless transparent prisms or plates ; scarcely soluble in cold water; freely soluble in boiling water, and in alcohol and ether; fuses at 239—240° Fahr.; volatile at higher temperatures, the ‘ distillate * being BENZONITEILE; acids decompose it, ‘ benzoic acid * and a ‘ salt of ammonia * being formed ; alkalies convert it into free ‘•ammonia * and a ‘ benzoate.* With oil of vitriol it forms an emerald-green solution; with Nordhausen sul- phuric acid, a deep indigo-blue one. See Ben- ZOYLE, &c BENZENE*. Benzole. BENZHY'DRAMIDE. See Hydeobenza- MIDE. BEN'ZIDAMf, Ben'zidamef. Aniline. BEN'ZIDE* (-zid). A hypothetical carbide of hydrogen formerly assumed to exist in pro- ducts arising from the action of dehydroge- nising agents on benzoyle. BEN'ZIDINE (-din). An organic alkali, discovered by Zinin, in acting on azobenzide with reducing agents. Its composition closely approximates to that of ‘aniline,* to which the name was, at one time, applied. See Ani- line, Azobenzide, &c. BEN'ZILE (-zil). [a corrup. of benzyle or benzoyle.'] A compound discovered by Laurent, who mistook it for ‘ benzoyle,* with which it is isomeric, but not identical. Prep. 1. Chlorine gas is passed over melted bemoine, until fumes of ‘ hydrochloric acid * cease to be evolved; a solution of the ‘ resi- duum* of the operation in hot alcohol, de- posits crystals of pure benzile on cooling. 2. By acting on benzoine with twice its weight oi fuming nitric acid, at a gentle heat. The reaction of the ingredients is rather violent, ^ "Fhurm, Cenlr. BluU.” 1839. and requires care. The newly formed BENzile is found floating on the surlace as an oily sub- stance, which must be collected, and purified, as before. Prop., 8(c. Large, transparent, sulphur-yel- low crystals ; tasteless, inodorous, volatile, in- flammable; fusible at 200° Fahr.; unaltered by distillation ; quite insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol, ether, and oil of vitriol, from each of which it is precipitated by water. In an alcoholic solution of potassa it dissolves with a violet tint. See Benzilic acid, &c. BENZIL'IC ACID. Syn. Acidum benzil'- ICUM, L. A compound discovered by Liebig. Prep. Boil benzoine, or benzile, in a strong alcoholic solution of potassa, adding more as long as a ‘ blue colour' is produced after the previous portion has been decoloured by boil- ing ; then neutralise the liquid with hydrochlo- ric acid, filter, and add hydrochloric acid in excess; as the liquid cools, crystals of ben- zilic ACID will separate. Prop., ^'C. Small colourless, transparent crystals; non-volatile; slightly soluble in cold water; more readily so in boiling water; so- luble in cold oil of vitriol, to which it imparts a rich carmine-red colour; melts at 248— 250° Fahr., and suffers decomposition at a higher tem- perature ; with some of the bases it forms salts \ben'zilates; ben'zilas, L. sing.), of which those with potassa and silver are crystallisable. BEN'ZIMIDE (-mid). The pearly needles and lamellae which separate, under certain circum- stances, from crude essential oil of almonds. It is quite insoluble in water; slightly soluble in boiling alcohol and ether; and forms a cha- racteristic dark indigo-blue solution with oil of vitriol, which becomes green on the addition of a little water. BEN'ZINE (-zin). Benzole. BEN'ZO-. A prefix occurring in the names of compounds of which benzoic acid is a con- stituent. BEN'ZOATE (-zo-ate). [Eng., Fr.] Syn, Ben'zoas, L. A salt of benzoic acid. 'The ‘ benzoates * may, in general, be easily prepared by either neutralising the acid with the base, or by double decomposition. Most of them are more or less soluble in water, and crystal- lisable. Those of the alkalies and ammonia are very soluble, and rather difficult to crys- tallise. See Benzoic Acid and the resjjec- live bases. BENZOCINNAM'IC ACID. An oily Hquid, decomposed by heat, obtained from chloride of benzoyle and cinnamate of soda, in a similar manner to that adopted for aceto-benzoic acid. BENZOCUMIN'IC ACID. Greatly resembles the last. See Acids (Organic). BEN'ZOENE*. See Tuldole. BENZO'IC ACID (-z5'-ik). Syn. FloweeS OF benzoin'*^, F. of BEN'JAMINf*; Hy'DEA- TED OX'IDE OF BEN'zOYLE; ACIDDM BENZO'- icuM (Ph. L., E., & D.), Flo"ees benzoi'ni (Ph. L. 1721 and 1746), F. ben'zoes (Ph. L. 1788), &c., L.; Acide benzoique, Fleues de