633 FEBRIFUGES—FEET. for 2 or 3 weeks to the sun and dew planted upright on the grass; or by sulphuring them. Feathers are dyed— Black. By immersion for 2 or 3 days in a bath (at first hot) of logwood, 8 parts, and copperas or acetate of iron, (about) 1 part. Blue. With the indigo vat. Beown. By any of the brown dges for silk or woollen. I Ceimson. a mordant of alum, followed by [ a hot bath of brazil wood, and afterwards by a tweak one of cudbear. 1 Pink or Rose. With safflower and lemon \ juice. 1 Plum. The red dye, followed by an alka- line bath. Red. a mordant of almn, followed by a ihot brazil-wood bath. ! Yellow. From an alum mordant, followed by a bath of turmeric or weld. Other shades may be obtained by a mixture of the above dyes. 1 Goose feathers for beds are generally puei- FiED by simply exposing them to the sun or in a stove until perfectly dry, and then beating them to remove loose dirt. When carelessly collected and dirty, they are sometimes first cleansed with lime water, or, better still, with a weak solution of carbonate (f soda, or water to which a little solution of chloride of lime has been added; after which they are rinsed in clean water, and dried or stoved as before. Old feathers are cleansed or purified in the same way. FEB'RIFUGES. Syn. Febeifuga, L. In oharmacy, substances or agents which cure or alleviate fever. The term is more particularly applied to medicines used against the ague, as MNCHONA BAEK and AESENIOUS ACID, and heir preparations. The extreme value of •old water, as a drink in ardent fever, has been >;nown in all ages. In 1723 Dr. Hancocke Dublished a work entitled—‘ Febrifugum Mag- turn, or Common Water the best Cure for Fevers, and probably for the Plague,’ which in i short time ran through several large. edi- litions, but appears to have been overlooked jy the hydropaths of the present day. FEC'ULA. Syn. F.ecula, L. The matter vhich subsides from cold water in which )ruised or rasped vegetable substances have )een washed. The fecula obtained from the eeds of the cereals and leguminosae, and from uberous or bulbous roots, consists of nearly mre STAECH. In some cases the starch is issociated with the green colouring matter chloeophyll) and the narcotic principles of he vegetables which yield it. The green ecula obtained by straining the expressed uices of the leaves and herbaceous parts of )lants is of this character. The fecula of all the amylaceous roots, rhi- omes, and tubers, may be easily obtained, on he small scale, by rasping them, pressing, and working the pulp in cold water, and after training the resulting milky liquid through a hair sieve, allowing it to settle. The sediment may be again washed by diffusion through clean cold water, and must be, lastly, collected, and dried out of the dust, and without artifi- cial heat. The fecula of narcotic plants for medicinal purposes is obtained by allowing the expressed juice to repose for 24 hours, and then decant- ing the clear portion, and drying the residue. Sometimes heat is employed. See Aeeow- EOOT, Staech, &c. FEET (The). To preserve the feet in a proper condition, they should be frequently soaked, and well washed in warm or tepid water. The vails of the toes should be pared, to prevent their becoming inconveniently long, and from growing into the flesh. Many persons suffer severely from tendee feet. This generally arises from the use of thin cot- ton or silk stockings, and boots or shoes that are either too tight or stiff, or not sufficiently porous to permit of the escape of the perspira- tion. Waterproof boots and shoes which are also air-tight (as those of gutta percha and India rubber), are common causes of tender feet, and even of headaches, dyspepsia, and apoplexy. The best treatment of tender feet is the immediate adoption of worsted stockings or sochs, and light, easy shoes of buckskin, goatskin, or some other equally soft kind of leather. It is highly necessary for the preser- vation of health to preserve the feet dey ; per- sons who are, therefore, exposed to the wet, or who are frequently passengers through the public streets in bad weather, should regard sound and good boots and shoes as of the first importance. In fact, in a hygienic point of view, a wet back should be less shunned than wet feet. Many persons frequently experience exteeme coldness and numbness of the FEET. The best and most natural remedy for this is active exercise or friction, the former being always adopted when possible. In such cases the use of warm woollen stockings is ab- solutely necessary, and the debilitated and aged may advantageously keep them on throughout the night, or at all events until the feet acquire a comfortable degree of warmth. The Dis- AGEEEABLE ODOUE which is evolved by the feet of some individuals in hot weather may be removed by the observance of extreme clean- liness, and by occasionally soaking the feet in warm water, to which a small quantity of chlo- ride of lime or sal ammoniac has been added. Distoetion of the feet is not uncommon in childhood, being sometimes congenital, but as frequently the result of weakness or bad nursing. “A child with its feet turned in- wards is called vaeus ; when they are turned outwards it is styled valgus. The proper use of bandages, early applied, will generally cor- rect these deformities; but if they be neglected in infancy they become incurable.^’ (Med. Lex.) Club foot, of which there are several varie- ties, may also be frequently relieved by a simple surgical operation. I