MADNESS—MAGNESIA. 871 I ' wliole is kept at the temperature of 212° for I an hour, and after being mixed with cold \ water is thrown on a linen strainer, well • washed with cold water, and dried. 5. Yxova ijowdered madder ando^7 of vitriol, e([ual parts, without heat, as described under Madder. 6. (F. Steiner.) The ‘ used madder' of the dye-works is run into filters, and precipitated with sulphuric acid; the matter thus obtained ; is put into bags and rendered as dry as pos- sible by hydraulic pressure; the pressed cake is next crumbled to pieces, placed in a leaden vessel, and treated with l-5th of its weight of oil of vitriol, afterwards assisting the action of the acid by introducing steam to the mixture; the resulting dark brown carbonized mass is, lastly, well washed, dried, powdered, and ; mixed with about of carlonate of soda, \ when it is ready for sale. Obs. The last three formulm produce the ^ aARANCE’ or ‘ aARANCiNE’ of commerce, now so extensively used in dyeing. Prop., <^c. Pure anhydrous alizarin, crys- tallizes in magnificent orange-red crystals, which may be fused and sublimed; it is freely soluble in alkaline solutions, which it colours purple or violet; and in oil of vitriol, giving a rich red colour; water throws it down from the last unchanged; it is also soluble in hot alcohol, a hot solution of alum, and, less freely, in hot water. Hydrated alizarin occurs in I small scales resembling mosaic gold. When impure, it generally forms shining reddish- brown scales. Commercial *yarancine' is a deep brown or puce-coloured powder, and will I probably, ere long, entirely supersede crude i madder for dyeing. The properties of ga- i rancine as a dye-stuff are precisely similar to those of madder. A solution of alum added to a solution of alizarin, and precipitated by car- lonate of potassa, furnishes a rose lake ; which, after being washed with water and ! dried, possesses a most charming tint, MAD'NESS. See Insanity. MAGILP'. S}jn. Megellup. A mixture of pale linseed oil and mastic varnish, employed by artists as a ‘ vehicle’ for their colours. The proportions vary according to the work. It is thinned with turpentine. MAG ISTERY. Syn. Magisteridm, L. The ; old name of precipitates. The following are I the principal substances to which this term has been applied :—Magistery op alum, hy- drate of alumina; M. OP BiSMDTn, sub-ni- trate of bismuth; M. of diaphoretic an- ; TiMONY, washed diaphoretic antimony ; M. op i opiDM (Ludolph’s), crude morphia; M. op j LAPIS CALAMINARis or M. OP ZINC, hydrated j oxide of zinc. I MAGNE'SIA. Syn. Oxide op magnesihm, I Calcined magnesia, Burnt m.^. Caustic ' M.*, Bitter earth^. Talc e.'^; Magnesia I (Ph. L. E. & D.), ]\r. calcinata, M. usta, L. ^ The oxide of the metal magnesium, a light, I white substance, classed with the earllis, J 3 Prep. 1. (Ph. L. E. & D.) Expose carlonate of magnesia in a crucible (earthen or platinum) to a full red heat for 2 hours, or until the powder suspended in water does not effervesce on the addition of dilute sulphuric or hydros chloric acid. Obs. Calcined magnesia is now seldom pre- pared by the retail druggist. On the large scale, covered crucibles made of porous earth- enware are employed as the containing vessels, and the heat is applied by placing them side by side, in a sort of furnace, or rather oven, heated with coke. The process is known to be complete when the magnesia presents a peculiar luminous appearance, tech- nically called ‘brightening.’ After calcination, the crucibles, still covered, are allowed to cool, when their contents are at once passed through a fine sieve, and preserved in well-corked bot- tles or jars, as it quickly absorbs carbonic acid from the air. Prod. 42g to 43§. 2. (Heavy magnesia, H. calcined m.. Condensed c. m. ; Magnesia ponderosa, L.) Fi’oin the heavy carlonate by calcination in the usual manner. For this purpose the mixed solution of the sulphate of magnesia and alka- line carlonate is generally at once evaporated to dryness and calcined, the alkaline sulphate resulting from the decomposition being after- wards removed by careful washing. Prop. Ordinary calcined magnesia is a very light, white, odourless, tasteless, powder; sp. gr. 2'3; when moistened, it slightly acts on turmeric paper; soluble in B142 parts of cold water, and in 36,000 parts of boiling water. It slowly absorbs carbonic acid from the atmo- sphere. With the acids it forms salts, most of which may be made by the direct solution of the earth, or of its hydrate or carbonate. The ‘HEAVY magnesia’ of the shops re- sembles the ordinary light calcined magnesia in all properties except density. Pur. “ Being moistened with water, it slightly changes the colour of turmeric to brown. It dissolves in hydrochloric acid with- out effervescence. Neither bicarbonate of potassa, nor chloride of barium, throws down anything from this solution.” (Ph. L.) “ Fifty grains are entirely soluble in 1 fl. oz. of hydro- chloric acid; an excess of ammonia occasions in the solution only a scanty precipitate of alumina; the filtered liquid is not precipitated by oxalate of ammonia.” (Ph. E.) Distilled water, which has been boiled on it, is not affected on the addition of either chloride of barium or nitrate of silver. Tests. Magnesia is precipitated from neutral solutions—1. By potassa, as a bulky white hydrate, which disappears on the addition of sal-ammoniac, but reappears on boiling with excess of potassa.—2. As a bulky white car- bonate, by the carbonates of potassa and soda. Both the above precipitates readily dissolve in dilute nitric and hydrochloric acids.—3. Solu- tions of magnesian salts are not precipitated by the alkaline sulphates or sulphuric acid.—