BLACKING. 327 blacking to the exclusion of the necessaiy pro- portion of bone-black, as it has no earthy base to absorb or neutralise the acid, which, if left in a free state, would prove very hurtful to the leather. Oil of vitriol is now employed in the manufacture of all the more celebrated and expensive blackings; and that, simply because no other substance is known so efficient, and so little injurious to the leather. In the common blackings of Germany, hydrochloric acid is often used to the entire exclusion of oil of vitriol; but blacking so prepared pos- sesses several disadvantages from which that of England is free. In the best German blackings only a small portion of this acid is used, as may be seen by reference to formula II., 5 {above). The addition of white-of-egg, isinglass, and similar articles^ to blacking, always proves injurious, as they tend to stiffen the leather, and to make it crack, without at all improving its polishing properties. Even gum-arabic, in quantity, is on this account, objectionable. Oil has an opposite tendency, and, as already stated, the quantity com- monly used may be increased with advantage. Resin-oil should be particularly avoided. Dr. Ure has recommended the use of a little copperas^ in blacking; with the object, we presume, of striking a black with the ‘ tan’ in the leather; but except with new, or nearly new leather, this effect would not occur, whilst its presence, if not objectionable, would other- j wise be useless. I The only improvement that has been in- j troduced in the manufacture of blacking I since the early days of the celebrated Day & Martin is, a few hours after the conclusion of the mixture of the ingredients, (but before adding the vinegar, if any) to ‘simmer’ the whole very gently, for about 8 or 10 minutes, observing to stir it assiduously all the time. The fire must then be withdrawn, and the \ pan covered over until it is quite cold, when ‘ half an hour’s lusty stirring will finish the process.^ In this way a degree of maturity and brilliancy will be imparted to the product, which, without the application of heat, it would ■ take months to acquire, if indeed it ever s reached it. I As it is generally more convenient to p ‘measure’ than to weigh liquids, it may be ^ In Scotland, flour-<paste soured by keeping, is often substituted for part of tlie treacle in the common black- ings ; with tlie effect, however, of greatly impairing their polishing qualities, and causing the leather to rapidly be- I come stiff, and to crack. Further, such blacking will not ' keep, often growing mouldy and hard in two or three I weeks. ^ ® The proportion recommended by Dr. Ure is | cz. to ’ each lb. of bone-black, dissolved in 10 parts of w ater, and 11 to be added wdlh the vitriol. ' * A capacious enamelled cast-iron boiler, with a concave bottom, should be used for this purpose; in which case tlie I ingredients can be mixed in it, and thus the trouble of re- ' moval avoided. If a common copper or cast-iron boiler be ; employed, the blacking must not be allowed to remain in I It longer than necessary to give it the ‘simmer,’ at the ' conclusion of which it should be turned out into a wooden tub or vat to cool. useful to remind tlie reader that, in round numbers, 1 gal. of oil weighs 9i lb. 1 ,, sour beer „ IO5 ,, We may here further remark that the ‘ black- ings’ of different houses vary considerably in some of their properties; as also do those of even the same maker by age. Some blackings ‘dry off’ rapidly, and give a very brilliant polish with very little labour; whilst others take a little longer to ‘ dry off,’ and somewhat more labour to polish them. The former are best adapted to hasty use, and when a very brilliant surface is desired; the latter, when depth of polish, without extreme brilliancy, satisfies the wearer. The first best meets the requirements of fashionable life; the last, those of the middle classes and pedestrians exposed to dirt, mud, and the various vicissi- tudes of travelling and weather. To the one belong the ‘blackings’ of Everett, Day & Martin, &c,; to the other, those of Warren, Bryant & James, and most of the smaller manufacturers, with nearly all the paste- blacking of the more respectable shops. Time, however, equalises the qualities of these two classes. Blackings which are crude, moist, and oily, lose these properties, and become drier and more brilliant by age. The practice of several of the first-class West-end boot and shoe makers is never to use a ‘ blacking’ which they have not had in their stock at least a twelvemonth. Blacking, both liquid and paste, should be stored in a cool and moderately dry cellar; and when in use should be kept corked or otherwise excluded from the air. Exposure or desiccation destroys most of its best qualities. The present annual value of the blacking consumed in the United Kingdom is estimated at 562,500/., or about 4^d. per head for the whole population ; while the collective yearly value of that exported is about 35,000/. [See Blackin& Balls, Bone-black, Boots AND Shoes, Leather, Sulphuric Acid, &c. ; also below^ Automatic Blacking. Sijn. Sele-shi"nino- BLACKING, SpAN'iSH JAPAN, &C. Prep. 1. Gum-arabic, 4 oz.; treacle or coarse moist sugar, 1^ oz. ; good black ink, ^ pint; strong vinegar, 2 oz.; rectified spirit of wine and sweet oil, of each 1 oz.; dissolve the ‘ gum ’ in the ‘ink,’ add the ‘oil,’ and rub them in a mortar, or shake them together for some time, until they are thoroughly united; then add the ‘ vinegar,’ and lastly, the ‘ spirit.’ 2. Lamp-black, | oz.; indigo (in fine powder), 1 dr. ; put them in a mortar, or basin, and rub them with sufficient mucilage (made by dissolving 4 oz. of gum in ^ pint of strong vinegar) to form a thin paste; add very gradu- ally, of sweet oil, 1 oz. ; and triturate until their union is complete, adding toward the end the