960 OILS (FIXED). phanistrum (Linn.), or jointed charlock or wild mustard. Prod. 30g. Neat’s-foot Oil. *s>n. Neuve oil, Trot- ter o.; Oleum bubulum, O. nervinum, Axungia pedum tauri, L. From neat's-feet and tripe, by boiling them in water, and skim- ming off the oil. Does not thicken by age. Used to soften leather, to clean fire-arms, and for other purposes. Nut Gil. Syn. Hazel-nut o.; Oleum Nucis, O. CORYLI, L. From the kernels of Corylus Avellana (Linn.), or hazel-nut tree. Pale, mild tasted, drying; superior to linseed oil for paints and varnishes. It is commonly sold for OIL OP ALMONDS and oil of ben, and is extensively employed to adulterate both. Walnut oil is also frequently sold for nut oil. Sp. gr. ’9260. Prod. 60g "(Ure). Oil of Nut'meg (Expressed). Syn. Ex- pressed OIL OF MACE, Butter of m. ; Oleum MYRISTICiE (cONCRETUM) (Ph. L.), MYRIS- TICJE ADEPS (Ph. E.), M. BUTYRUM, O. MY- RISTIC^ EXPRESSUM, O. MOSCHAT.E, 0. NU- CiST^, L. “ The concrete oil expressed from the seed of Myristica officinalis," Linn. (Ph. L.), or common nutmeg. The nutmegs are beaten to a paste, enclosed in a bag, exposed to the vapour of hot water, and then pressed between heated iron plates. Orange coloured, fragrant, spicy; butyraceous, or sohd. It is a mixture of the fixed and volatile oils of the nutmeg. When discoloured and hardened by age, it is called ‘Banda soap’ (ol. macis in MASSis). When pure, it is soluble in 4 parts of boiling alcohol and in 2 parts of ether. It has been used in rheumatism and palsy, but is now chiefly employed for its odour and aromatic qualities. From the East Indies. Prod. 17g to 20g. Ol'ive Oil. Syn. Salad oil. Sweet o. ; Oleum olivarum, O. oliv.e (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. The “ oil expressed from the fruit” of “ Olea europcea, Linn.” (Ph. L.), or common olive. Five different methods are employed to obtain the oil from the fruit:— 1. (Virgin oil; 0. o. virgineum, L. ; Huile vierge, Fr.) From olives, carefully garbled, either spontaneously or only by slight pressure, in the cold. That yielded by the pericarp of the fruit is the finest. 2. (Ordinary ‘ fine oil.') This is obtained by either pressing the olives, previously crushed and mixed with boiling water, or by pressing, at a gentle heat, the olives from which the virgin oil has been obtained. The above pro- cesses furnish the finer salad oils of commerce. The cake which is left is called ‘ grignon.’ 3. (Second quality.) By allowing the bruised fruit to ferment before pressing it. Yellow; darker than the preceding; but mild and sweet tasted. Much used for the table. 4. (‘ Gorgon.') By fermenting and boiling the pressed cake or marc in water, and skim- ming ofi* the oil. Inferior. 5. (Oil of the infernal regions ; Oleum OMPHACINUm) is a very inferior quality of oil, wliich is skimmed off the surface of the water in the reservoirs into which the waste water whi(;h has been used in the above operations is received, and allowed to settle. The last two are chiefly used for lamps, and in soap- making, &c. Of the principal varieties of olive oil known in commerce, and distinguished by the place of their production, ‘ Provence oil' is the most esteemed; ‘ Florence oil' and ‘ Lucca oil' are also of very fine quality; ‘ Genoa oil' comes next, and then ‘ Gaxlipoli oil,’ which forms the mass of what is used in England; ‘ Sicily oil,’ which has a slightly resinous flavour, is very inferior; and ‘ Spanish oil’ is the worst imported. ^ Prop., 8fc. Olive oil is a nearly inodorous, pale greenish-yellow, unctuous fluid, with a purely oleaginous taste, peculiarly grateful to ; the palate of those who relish oil. It does not i suffer active decomposition at a heat not ex- ceeding 600° Fahr.; and when cooled to 36° it congeals into a granular solid mass. It is very slightly soluble in alcohol, but its solu- bility is increased by admixture with castor oil. It is soluble in part of ether. When pure, it has little tendency to become rancid. Sp. gr. -9170 to *9173; *9192, at 53^° (Saus- sure) ; *9176, at 59° (Heidenreich); and -9109, at 77° Fahr. (Saussure). Prod. 32g; of which 21§ is furnished by the pericarp, and the re- mainder, which is inferior, by the seed and woody matter of the fruit. Pur. Olive oil, with the exception of that ' of almonds, being the most costly of the ordi- nary fixed oils of commerce, is, consequently, the one most subject to adulteration. Nut, POPPY, rape, and lard oil, are those most « commonly used for this purpose. Refined ' TALLOW OLEIN, including that obtained from i the ‘knackers’ yards’ of Paris, is said to have j been used in the same way. The addition of any other oil to olive oil renders it far less agreeable to the palate, and, by increasing its tendency to rancidity, much more likely to : offend and derange the stomach and bowels of ^ those who consume it. Parties who indulge themselves in the use of this luxury would, ■ therefore, do well to ascertain that what they purchase is pure. When pure and also fresh, olive oil is most wholesome as an article of i food or as a condiment. : The detection of the sophistication of salad ' oil is a matter of no great difl&culty. The palate of the connoisseur will readily perceive , the slightest variation in the quality of his , favourite condiment. Other methods, however, ^ of a more accurate and certain description, and of more general application, are adopted. Amongst these, in addition to those mentioned j above, are the following:— a. When pure olive oil is shaken in a phial, i only half filled, the ‘ bead ’ or bubbles rapidly disappear; but if the sample has been mixed with poppy or other oil, the bubbles continue longer before they burst.