V. BELLADONNINE. 301 (j (Ph. E.) “The leaves and root/* (Ph. D.) “ Leaves oval, acute, very perfect, glabrous, and evolve a disagreeable odour when bruised. The wild herb is to be preferred to that which I is cultivated in gardens.** (Ph. L.) Prop.y uses, S^c. Every part of this plant contains ateo'pia, and is consequently highly poisonous. Every part, except the berries, is foetid when bruised, and of “a dark and lurid aspect, indicative of its deadly narcotic quality.** ‘ Its berries, which are of a glossy violet-black, and of the size of a small cherry, are sweet-tasted and not at all nauseous. Children, and tired travellers and soldiers, 1 allured by their beauty and the absence of disagreeable flavour, have frequently been in- i duced to eat them; but in all cases poisoning, often fatal, has followed the indulgence.^ Belladonna is, however, in qualifled hands, I a safe and most valuable medicine. Its chief i use is as an anodyne, antispasmodic, sedative, I and discutient, and particularly to diminish sensibility and allay pain and nervous irri- i tation, in a variety of diseases—neuralgia, ar- j thritic and migratory rheumatic pains, painful ulcers, cancer, spasmodic rigidity, strictures, and contractions (especially of the bladder I and uterus), angina pectoris, iritis, epilepsy, j chorea, hooping-cough, hysteria, mania, fevers, I phthisis, asthma, &c.; also as a prophylactic of scarlet-fever,^ hydrophobia, and salivation, I as a resolvent in enlarged and indurated glands i (particularly when painful), as an agent to I produce dilation of the pupil during surgical examinations and operations, &c., &c. It is employed both internally and externally, I ami in various forms, as is noticed under its j ‘ preparations * elsewhere.—Dose. (Of the I powder) ^ to 1 gr., twice a day, gradually and I cautiously increased until dryness of the throat, or dilation of the pupil occurs, or the head is a Tected. . Pois., Sfc. Belladonna, and its preparations, are poisonous to all animals, but very much more so to the ‘ carnivora* than to the ‘ lierbivora.* Its effects are most marked u hen it has been swallowed, or when it has been applied to an abraded or vesicated sur- ! lace, or a wound; but similar effects, differing only in severity, follow, though less rapidly, its contact with even the soiind skin. It also acts as a poison on vegetables. It is usually ' classed with the ‘ narcotico-acrid poisons ;* but, by Dr. A. S. Taylor, is placed among the ‘ cerebro-spinal poisons,* a subdivision of his class ‘ neurotic poisons.*^—Symp. A species of intoxication; inability to stand; heat and ^ rereira, 4th fd., ii. 545. ^ One hundre-d and fifty French soldiers were thus ]ttiisoned at Pirna, near Dresden. (Orfila, “ Tox. Gen”) 2 Of 2027 persons n ho took it, and were exposed to tlie roiita;'ion of scarlet fever, 19J8 escaped. (Bayle, “ Thentp.p t. ii., p. 504.) Of 1200 soldiers who took it only 12 liecanie affected. (Oppenheim, "‘Loud. Med. Gaz.,” xiii. 814.) In this country, however, except among homoeopaths, it has not found much favour as a prophy- lactic. ♦ See “ On Poisons,” 2nd cd., 1859. dryness of the mouth and throat, with con- striction of the last; difficult deglutition and articulation; redness and tumefaction of the face; giddiness; indistinct, double, or con- fused vision, often closely approaching blind- ness ; gay delirium, without convulsions (or at first so) ; paralysis of the intestines, and partial paralysis of the stomach ; convulsions (usually) ; stupor j lethargy; death. The pupils are much dilated,® and the eyes are in- sensible to light. There is frequently pro- trusion of the eye; and injection of the con- junctiva with bluish blood is not uncommon. In other cases the eyelids are either wholly or partially drawn down. Nausea and vomiting are also frequent. When recovery takes place the patient has generally no recollection of his previous state.— Treatm., ant., (^c. These may be the same ag those employed in poisoning by aconite, atropia, and opium. The stomach must be cleared as soon as possible, followed by active purgation. Unfortunately emetics have scarcely any action, and, therefore, must be given in large doses, assisted by tickling the fauces, &c. If copious vomiting does not rapidly follow, the stomach pump may be had recourse to. When the poison has been re- moved from the stomach, copious and con- tinued draughts of astringent vegetable solu- tions (weak decoction of galls or oak-bark, or strong cojfee or green-tea), should be persisted in for some time ; followed by like draughts of water soured with any mild vegetable acid (as vinegar, lemon-juice, citric or tartaric acid, 4*c.).—Lesions. The vessels of the brain are sometimes congested with liquid blood; at others, distended with thick black blood. The stomach and intestines are usually pale and flaccid ; and red or purple spots are not infre- quently observed in the membrane of the throat, gullet, and stomach. When the berries have been taken the mucous membrane is fre- quently more or less dyed throughout.— Detec. The contents of the stomach or vomited matter may be searched for the berries, leaves, seed, or portions of the root; all of which are easily recognisable. The usual physiological and chemical tests of ‘ atropia * may also be applied to these, and to the organic liquids supposed to contain the poison. See Alkaloid, Ateopia, Exteacts, Ointments, Tinctuees, Veoetable Juices, &c. BELLADONNINE (-m).^ [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Bellado"nia, Belladoni'na, L. a volatile alkaloid, of little practical interest, first no- ticed by Luebekind in atropa belladonna. Its odour is somewhat ammoniacal, and its crystals contain 3 equiv. of water. 2 gr. are said to produce heat and constriction of the throat 5 According to Mr. Tufnell, the pupils are sometimes contracted during sleep, although dilated in the waking state. {''Dub. Med. Press,” "Jour, de Ckiinie Mcd.j” 1853; &c.) ® This name is also sometimes improperly applied to atropia; but the two substances so differ in their proper- ties, that it is most dangerous thus to confound them.