GOITRE 704 —GOLp. naturalized almost everywhere. Its hair is woven into clothing, and its fiesh and milk furnish us with excellent food. That of the kid is much esteemed. The oeiental bezoar is a concretion found in the stomach and in- testines of the goat. GOITRE. Syn. Deebtshiee neck; Beon- CHOCELE, TeACHEOCELE ; HeENIA BEONCHI- ALis, L. An indolent tumour on the fore part of the neck, formed by a morbid enlargement of the thyroid gland. It sometimes occurs in Derbyshire, and is endemic in the Alps and several other mountainous districts. Iodine and the iodides appear to be the only substances capable of curing or even ax’resting the pro- gress of this disease. GOLD. Syn. Aueum, Sol, Rex metallo- EUM, L.j Oe, Fr.; Gold, Ger. Gold is the most valuable and, probably, the longest known of all the metals. From the remotest period it has been esteemed for its beauty and perma- nence, and has been taken as the standard measure of value amongst all civilized nations. An account of the uses of gold in the arts, and its influence on society in all ages, as a symbol of wealth and an article of ornament and utility, would embrace the whole history of mankind. At the present day it alike con- tributes to the conveniences, comforts, and luxuries of life, as often exciting the baser passions of the human heart as promoting the cause of benevolence and virtue. Gold is found only in the metallic state. It occurs as gold dijst in the sands of various rivers, and in the alluvial soil pf auriferous districts, from both of which it is obtained by the simple process of ‘washing! Traces of it are constantly found in the iron and other py- rites of the more ancient rocks. Sometimes it occurs beautifully crystallized in the cubic form, associated with quartz, oxide of iron, and other substances, in regular veins. In the gold fields of California and Australia lumps of nearly pure gold have been discovered in abundance during the last few years. In the former country a mass of gold weighing 28 pounds was found, whilst in our own colonies one weighing 106 pounds was dug out of a quartz rock, near Bathurst. The latter con- tained upwards of 91g of pure gold, and nearly 8jgof silver; being as pure as the English sovereign, or, in trade language, ‘ 22 carats fine.^ Prep. This consists merely in the separation of the gold and its subsequent purification. Formerly, the auriferous sulphurets, if very poor, were first roasted, then fused into ‘ mattes' and again roasted; they were next melted with lead, and the alloy thus obtained was refined by ctjpellation. When the ores were very rich, the preliminary calcina- tion and fusion were omitted, and the alloy of lead at once formed. This method (by etjsion) does not answer well with auriferous copper pyrites or ores very poor in gold. At the present time the method of amalgamation is principally followed. When a ‘veinstone* is to be wrought for gold, it is reduced to powder (on the small scale by hand, on the large scale in stamping mills), and is shaken in a suitable £lpparatus with water and mer- cury ; an amalgam of gold is formed, which is then separated from the mixture, and its mercury removed by distillation. The gold is next cast into ‘ ingots.’ Refining. Gold obtained by the first method usually contains a little copper and silver, and frequently tin or iron. Tin may be removed by adding a little corrosive sublimate or nitre to the gold melted in a crucible. The process by amalgamation commonly leaves no other alloy than silver. This metal is removed either in the ‘dry by.fusing the gold with sulphur or sulphuret of antimony; or in the ‘wet way! ‘ quartation* ‘parting! At the Royal Mint, “when gold ingots contain a certain quantity of silver’’ (say 2g or Sg), “instead of leaving it, as formerly, to con- stitute a part of the standard alloy, it pays to extract it, and to substitute copper in its place. To get the silver out of the said ingots, they are melted with about 3 parts of silvei—the resulting alloy is granulated and boiled with sulphuHc acid—“the gold remains untouched, and all the silver is dissolved and converted into sulphate. . . . The sulphate of silver is then decomposed by the immersion of copper plates; the silver is precipitated in a fine, crystalline powder, washed, pressed into masses, and melted, and so affords puee SILVER, which is afterwards made standard by alloying it with copper, and is used for coinage. The resulting sulphate of copper (which exists in the solution) is then crys- tallized, and sold.” (Brande.) “ By first ex- hausting the gold with nitric acid, and then boiling it in sulphuric acid, some two or three thousandth part of silver which escaped the action of the nitric acid is dissolved out, and ‘'perfectly pure gold is obtained.” (Ure.) By a foreign invention, patented in 1851 by Mr. W. E. Newton, the operations of ‘se- paration ’ and ‘ refining ’ are conducted by one process. The argentiferous substance, whether in the state of ore or bullion, is reduced to a granulated or spongy state, by fusion along with zinc, or some other metal cheaper than silver, and the zinc is subsequently removed, by digesting the resulting granulated, lami- nated, or pulverulent alloy, in dilute sulphuric acid, or other acid. The zinc, &c,, is recovered by the usual means. This process, carefully conducted, produces metal of great ductility and purity, containing 99§ to 99i§ of pure gold. Chemically pure gold is obtained by dissolving the metal in nitrohydrochloric acid, adding a solution of protosulphate of iron, and collecting and washing the precipitate. In this state it is a brown powder, which acquires a metallic lustre by friction or heat. Prop. The most marked properties of gold