WINE, 1345 by violently agitating the wine for some time with a little of the sweetest olive or almond oil. The cause of the had taste is the pre- sence of an essential oil, which the fixed oil seizes on, and rises with to the surface, when it may he skimmed off; or the liquor mider it may be drawn off. A little coarsely powdered ' fresh-hurnt charcoal, or even some slices of bread toasted black, will frequently have a like effect. A little bruised mustard seed is also occasionally used for the same pur- j pose. Perfuming. This is chiefly performed on British wines for family use. For its appli- cation to foreign wines, see Flavouring {above). Wines may be perfumed by the simple addi- tion of any odorous substances previously well mixed with a little of the wine, or dissolved in a few 11. oz. of rectified spirit. Racking. This should be performed in cool weather, and preferably early in the spring. A clean syphon, well managed, answers better for this purpose than a cock or faucet. The bottoms, or foul portion, may be strained through a wine-bag, and added to some other inferior wine. Ripening. To promote the maturation or ' ripening of wine, various plans are adopted by the growers and dealers. One of the safest ways of hasiening this, especially for strong wines, is not to rack them until they have stood 15 or 18 months upon the lees ; or, whe- i ther ^ crude’ or keeping them at a I temperature ranging between 50 and 60" I Fahr,, in a cellar free from draughts and not j too dry. Another method is to remove the corks [ or bungs, and to substitute bladder tied or fastened air-tight over the openings. Bottled wine, treated in this way, ripens very quickly in a temperate situation. Some dealers add a little dilute sulphuric acid to the coarser wines for the same purpose; but a small quantity of' concentrated acetic acid or tartaric acid would ! be preferable, since these acids are found in all! wines. 4 or 5 drops of the former, added to ‘ a bottle of some kinds of new wine, imme- diately give it the appearance of being 2 or 3 years old. Ropiness, viscidity; Gralsse. This arises Irom the wine containing too little tannin or iistringent matter to precipitate the gluten, I albumen, or other azotized substance, occa- | siuning the malady. Such wine cannot be clarified in the ordinary way, because it is in- ciipable of causing the coagulation or precipi- tation of the finings. The remedy is to supply the principle in which it is deficient. M. I l'ram;ois, of Nantes, prescribes the bruised j berries of the mountain ash (1 lb. to the barrel) for this purpose. A little catechu, kino, or, better still, rhaiany, or the bruised footstalks of tlie grape, may also be conveniently and advantageously used in the siime way. For PALE WHITE WINES, wliich are the ones chiefly attacked by the malady, nothing equals a little mure tannin or tannic acid dissolved in proof spirit. See Viscous Fermentation, Malt Liquors, &c. Roughening. vSee Flavouring {above). Second fermentation; La-pousse. Inordi- nate fermentation, either primary or secon- dary, in wine or any other fermented liquor, may be readily checked by sulphuration, or by the addition of mustard seed or sulphite of lime. 1 oz. of brimstone, f to 1 lb. of bruised mustard seed, and about 4 to 8 oz. of sulphite of lime, are fully sufficient for a hogshead. This substance seldom fails of arresting the fermentation.—In addition to the above reme- dies, a little sulphuric acid is sometimes em- ployed, and the use of black oxide of manganese, or chlorate of potash, has been proposed on theoretical grounds. Souring. This is either occasioned by the wine having been imperfectly fermented, or from its having been kept in too warm a cellar, where it has been exposed to draughts of air or to continual vibrations, occasioned by the passage of loaded vehicles through the ad- joining thoroughfare. The remedy commonlv recommended in books for this purpose is to saturate the acid with chalk, milk of lime, or calcined oyster shells; but such additions, made in sufficient quantity to effect this object, destroy the character of the wine, and render it sickly and vapid. The best and only safe remedy is a little neutral tartrate of potash, cautiously added; or it may be mixed with a considerable portion fulUbodied new wine of its class, adding at the same time a little brandy, and in 2 or 3 weeks fining it do\vn, when it should be either at once put into bottles, or consumed as soon as possible. See Deacetification and Betartarization {above). Sparkling, creaming, and briskness. These properties are conveyed to wine by racking it into closed vessels before the fermentation is complete, and while there still remains a con- siderable portion of undecomposed sugar. Wine of this description, which has lost its briskness, may be restored by adding to each bottle a few grains of white lump sugar> or sugar candy. This is the way in which cham- pagne is treated in France. The bottles are afterwards inverted, by which means any sedi- ment that forms falls into the necks, when the corks are partially withdrawn, and the sedi- ment is immediately expelled by the elastic force of the compressed carbonic acid. If tJie wine remains muddy, a little solution of sugar and finings are added, and the bottles are again placed in a vertical position, and, after two or three months, the sediment is dis- charged, as before. Sweating in. The technical terms ' sweating in’ and ‘fretting in’ are applied to the partial production of a second fermentation, for tlu‘ purpose of mellowing down the flavour of foreign ingredients (chiefly brandy) added to wine. For this purpose 4 or 5 lb. of sugar or honey, with a little crude tartar (dissolved), are commonly added per hogshead; and when