OILS (FIXED). 958 The attention of persons interested was there- fore immediately directed to the subject, and improved methods of obtaining the oil were suggested, and ere long adopted on the large scale. The methods of preparing cod-liver oil are noticed in another part of this work,^ but we think it advisable to add to these a description of the plan adopted by Messrs. Charles Fox and Co., of Newfoundland, Scarborough, and London, the well-known manufacturers and importers of cod-liver oil; — “The Newfoundland fisheries are entirely carried on in small boats, principally by the hand-line system, and quite close to the shore. The boats go out early in the morning, and return about four o’clock in the afternoon. The fish, on landing, are handed over to a ‘fish-room keeper,’ whose duty it is to split and open the fish, and to deposit the livers in small tubs, holding 17 or 18 gallons each. These tubs are soon afterwards collected from the different ‘ fish-rooms,’ and conveyed to the manufactory. The livers are here thrown into tubs filled with clean cold water, and, after being well washed and jerked over, are placed on galvanized iron-wire sieves to drain. They are next put into covered steam-jacket-pans, and submitted to a gentle heat for about three quarters of an hour, after which the steam is turned off, cold air again admitted, and the whole allowed to repose for a short time, during which the livers subside, and the oil separates, and floats on the top. The oil is then skimmed off into tin vessels, and passed through flannel strainers into tubs, where it is left to subside for about 24 hours. From these the purer upper portion, of oil is run into a very deep, galvanized-iron cistern, and again left to clarify itself by defecation for a few days. It is now further refined, by carefully passing it through clean and very stout mole- skin filters, under pressure. The transparent filtered oil is received in a clean, galvanized- iron cistern, containing a pump, from which the casks are filled for exportation. The latter, before being filled, are carefully seasoned and cleaned, to prevent their imparting either flavour or colour to the pure oil.” The superiority of the oil prepared as above consists essentially in every part of the process of extraction being performed whilst the livers are fresh, and in no chemical means being adopted to give the oil a factitious appear- ance. Its natural pale colour is thus pre- served from contamination, and its medicinal virtues maintained intact. Much of the light-brown oil of commerce is obtained from Gadus callarius (the dorse), G. carbonarius (the coal-fish), and G. pollachius (the pollack). Pur., “ The finest oil,'” remarks Dr. Pereira, “ is that which is most devoid of colour, odour, and flavour. The oil, as con- tained in the cells of the fresh liver, is nearly 1 See27«ye461. colourless, and the brownish colour possessed by ordinary cod-liver oil is due to colouring matters derived from the decomposing (putre- fying) hepatic tissues and fluids, or from the action of the air on the oil (age). Chemical analysis lends no support to the opinion, at one time entertained, that the brown oil was supe- rior, as a therapeutical agent, to the pale oil. Chemistry has not discovered any substance in the brown oil that would confer on it superior activity as a medicine. On the other hand, the disgusting odour and flavour and nau- seating qualities of the brown oil preclude its repeated use. Moreover, there is reason to suspect that, if patients could conquer their aversion to it, its free use, like that of other rancid and empyreumatic fats, would disturb the digestive functions, and be attended udth injurious efiects.” (‘ Elem. Mat. Med.,’ &c., 3rd edit., iii, 2239.) Among the tests of purity, that generally relied on is known as the ‘ sulphuric-acid test."^ Doese oil and other eish oils, sold as ‘LiOHT-BEOWN COL-LIVEE OIL,’ exhibit with this test much slighter reactions, which closely resemble those of liver-teain and wh^le- TEAIN OIL. To detect the presence of combined iodine, which is now generally considered as one of the leading medicinal constituents of pure cod- liver oil, the sample is saponified by tritu- ration with a little caustic potassa and hot water, the resulting soap cautiously incine- rated, the ashes digested with water, and the whole thrown on a filter. The usual tests for iodine may be then applied to the filtered liquid. The presence of iodine artiflcially added is best detected by agitating the oil with a little reclifled spirit, and then testing this last for iodine. Or, a little solution of starch and a few drops of sulphuric or nitric acid may be at once added to the oil, when a blue colour will be developed if iodine has been mixed with the sample. The sp. gr. of the pale oil is *9230 to •9238; of the light-brown oil, -9240 to •9245; of the dark-brown oil, ^9290 to •9315. The density is, however, apt to var/ a little with the quantity of moisture present. Uses, 8^‘c. Cod-liver oil is a most valuable medicine in a great variety of diseases, more especially in glandular indurations and en- largements, scrofula, phthisis, rheumatism, gout, certain cutaneous diseases, amenorrhoea, chlorosis, caries, rickets, &c. To be of service, however, its use must be continued for several weeks, and the oil must be recent. Dose. 1 to 2 table-spoonfuls, 3 or 4 times daily, or oftener. See previous article on Cod-livee Oil. CoTza Oil. From the seeds of Brassica cam- pestris, var. oleifera, or colza de printemps, a^’i*u ® See fage 956. '!