ESS13NCE. 579 after sufficient repose to settle, the supernatant transparent liquid is decanted into another bottle for use. 2. Gum ammoniacum, 1 lb., is reduced to a cream with boiling water, \ pint; as soon as the mixture has cooled a little, it is placed in a strong bottle, and rectified spirit of wine, li pint, is cautiously added; the mixture is then corked down close, and the whole macerated for a few days; the bottle is next placed in a moderately warm situation, that the sediment may subside, after which the clearer portion is poured off through flannel into another bottle. Obs. This preparation is used as a substitute for the gum in siibstance, for extemporaneously preparing emulsion of ammoniacum, mixture of a., &c. It is represented to possess fully the same amount of medicinal virtue as an equal | weight of the solid gum, on which account it has a considerable sale. The product of the ' first formula, when well managed, is a beauti- 1 ful pale brownish-coloured, transparent] tinc- ture; that of the second is milky and less sightly. The preparation generally sold under the name of ‘ concenteated essence op am- I moniacum’ (essentia ammoniaci concen- j TRATA, L.), and represented as twice as strong as the gum in substance, is generally prepared ! b}' the first formula given above for essence ; OF AMMONIACUM. A stronger article may be 1 prepared by a similar process, by using 1 lb. of I ammoniacum to a pint of the strongest rectified I spirit. As, however, a clear liquid at this j strength is somewhat difficult to produce, it is I very seldom attempted by the druggists ; they I therefore generally content themselves with j sending out the liquid at half the professed I strength, leaving the label to confer the addi- I tional concentration. See Ammoniacum. I Essence of Ancho'vies. Syn. Essentia CLUPEiE, L. Prep, 1. Jnchovies, 1 lb., are I * boned,’ reduced to a pulp in a wedgewood- ! ware or marble mortar, and passed through a clean hair or brass-wire sieve; meanwhile the I bones and other portion that will not pass j through the sieve are boiled with water, 1 I pint, for 15 minutes, and strained; to the ! strained liquor, salt and flour, of each, 2^ oz., together with the pulped anchovies, are added, I and the whole simmered for 3 or 4 minutes, j when the vessel is removed from the fire, I and as soon as the mixture has cooled a little, ; strong pickling vinegar, \ pint, is mixed in; it ] is then bottled, and the corks tied over wdth I bladder, and either ‘ waxed' or ‘ capsuled.’ 1 Product, 3 lb. (nearly). I 2. Anchovies, 7 lb.; water, 9 pints ; salt and flour, of each, 1 lb. Product, 20 lb. I 3. To the last, add of Cayenne pepper, oz. ; ! the peel of a lemon (grated), and mushroom catsup, 4 oz. Very savoury. I 4. From British anchovies (pickled sprats) I or young pilchards, along with herring liquor, I or the drainings of anchovy barrels. j Use, &fc. As a sauce and condiment; when j well prepared, it has a fine flavour. T^iat of the shops is usually coloured with Venetian red or Armenian bole. An infusion of cochineal, or a little annotta, would form a more appropriate colouring, and would be perfectly harmless. See Anchovy and Sauce. Essence of Angelica. Syn. Essentia An- gelica, L. Prep, (Van Mons.) Angelica root (bruised), 1 part; rectified sqnrit, 8 parts; water, 16 parts; digest, and distil over 6 parts j Stomachic, carminative, and alexipharmic. Dose. 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls. Essence of Aniseed. Syn. Essentia anisi, L.; Espeit d’anise, Fr. From oil of aniseed, as ESSENCE OF ALLSPICE Or ALMONDS. Used to flavour liqueurs, and to make aniseed water. See Spieit. An'odyne Essence. Syn. Essentia anodyna, I S. Prep. 1. Hard aqueous extract of opium (in powder), 1 dr.; powdered cinnamon, ^ dr.; rectified spirit, 1 fl. oz.; digest a week. Dose* 5 to 20 drops. 2. Extract of henbane (recent), 5 dr.; rec* tified spirit, 2 fl. oz.; as last. Dose. 10 to 30 drops. Narcotic, sedative, and antispasmodic. Both are excellent preparations. Antihysteric Essence. Syn. Essentia anti- HYSTEEICA, L. Prep. 1. Cyanuret of potas- sium, 3 gr.; powdered sugar, 1 dr.; rectified spirit and eau d’orange, of each, 4 fl. dr.; agi- tate together until dissolved. Dose. 10 to 20 drops, in pure water; in hysteria, gastrodynia, &c. See Deaught (Antihysteric). 2. (P. Cod.) Resembles fetid spirit of AMMONIA (which see). Essence of Ap'ple. Syn. Solution of vale- rianate OF AMYLE; Essentia pomi odorata, L. Prep. From apple oil (valerianate of oxide of amyle), as-essence of almonds. Used to flavour liqueurs and confectionery. Essence of Ar'nica. Syn. Essentia arnica, E. A. FLORUM, TiNCTURA A. F. CONCENTRATA, L. Prep. (Ph. Baden, 1841.) From arnica flowers, as essence of aconite. It represents half its weight of herb. Aromatic Essence. Syn. Essentia aro- MATICA, L. Prep. From hay saffron, 1 dr. j and rectified spirit, 6 fl. dr.; digested together \ to the filtered tincture is added oil of cinnamon and powdered white sugar, of each, 1 dr.; ether (rect.), 2 fl. dr.; oil of nutmeg and essence of ginger, of each, ^ dr.; after agitation and a few days’ repose, the clear portion is decanted into a stoppered phial. Dose. 5 to 15 drops, on sugar or in a glass of wine or weak spirit; in cholera, diarrhoea, spasms, &c. Essence of Bark. Syn. Essentia cinchona, E. CORTICIS C., L. Prep. 1. Resinous extract of yellow bark, 4 dr.; rectified spirit, 1^ fl. oz.; tincture of orange peel, ^ fl. oz.; acetic acid (Ph. L.), 1 fl. dr.; digest a week. 2. Disulphate of quinine, \ dr.; resinous ex- tract of bark, 2 dr.; rectified spirit, 2 fl. oz.; as before. Dose. 12 drops to a teaspoonful j as a febrifuge and tonic. Essence of Beef. Syn. Essence of red MEATS, &c. Prep. 1. From(chopped