PUTREFACTION. 1150 proper method is to expose the substances, cut into slices or small fragments, in the sun, or in a current of warm dry air, the temperature of which should be under 140° Fahr. Articles so treated, when immersed for a short time in cold water, to allow the albumen and organic fibres to swell, and then boiled in the same water, are nearly as nutritious as fresh meat cooked in the same manner. If a higher degree of heat than 140° be employed for animal substances, they become hard and insipid. Owing to the practical difl&culties in the way of applying the above process to fresh meats, it is usually employed in conjunction with either salting or smoking, and, frequently, with both of them. Exclusion of atmospheric oxygen. This is effected by the method of preserving in sugar, potting in oil, and, more particularly, by some of the patented methods noticed below. Fresh MEAT may be preserved for some months in that state, by keeping it in water perfectly deprived of air. In practice, some iron filings and sulphur may be placed at the bottom of the vessel, over which must be set the meat; over the whole is gently poured recently boiled water, and the vessel is at once closed, so as to exclude the external air. Immersion in antiseptic liquids. One of tlie commonest and most effective liquids employed for this purpose is alcohol of 60 to 70§, to which a little camphor, ammonia, sal ammoniac, or common salt, is occasionally added. A cheaper and equally efficient plan is to employ a weak spirit holding a little creasote in solution. A weak solution of sul- phurous acid may be substituted for alcohol. Weak solutions of alum, with or without the addition of a few grains of corrosive sublimate, or of arsenious acid, are also highly antiseptic. These are chiefly employed for anatomical specimens, &c. a solution containing only g^th part of nitrate of silver is likewise very effective; but, from this salt being poisonous, it cannot be employed for preserving articles of food. Butcher’s meat is occasionally pickled in vinegar. By immersing it for 1 hour in water holding ^ggth part of creasote in solution, it may be preserved unchanged for some time, even during summer. Injection oe antiseptic liquids into the veins or arteries of the recently killed animal. It is found that the sooner this is done after the slaughter of the animal the more effective it becomes, as the absorbent power of the ves- sels rapidly decrease by age. See Gannal’s PROCESS {below). Jerking is a method of preserving flesh sometimes adopted in hot climates. It con- sists in cutting the lean parts of the meat into thin slices, and exposing these to the sun- shine until quite dry and brittle, when they are bruised in a mortar, and pressed into pots. Pickling in vinegar. In this method the substances, rendered as dry as possible by ex- posure to the air, are j)laced in glass or stone- ware jars (not salt-glazed), or wooden vessr when strong vinegar, either cold or boiling h is poured over them, and the vessel at oi closely corked, or otherwise covered up, s preserved in a cool situation. Meat is oc sionally thus treated; vegetables frequen so. See Pickle, Potting in oil. In this case salad or o< oil is substituted for vinegar (see above), s is always used cold. Salting acts chiefly by abstracting wa from the albuminous portions of the meat, which its disposition to change is lessened. Smoking, i This process, which, as well the last, is referred to further on, acts be by the abstraction of moisture and the at septic properties of certain substances (cr sole, &c.) contained in wood smoke. Fee MEAT and FISH are occasionally smoked; b in general, substances intended to be tl treatediare first salted. In Donkin and Gamble’s patent process, 1 substances, previously parboiled, are placed small tin cylinders, wffiich are then filled with rich soup; the lids are next soldered quite air-tight, and a small hole is afterwai made in the centre; the cylinders are tl placed in a bath of strong brine, or a stro solution of chloride of calcium, which is once heated to the boiling-point, to nea complete the cooking process; after which 1 small hole in the lid is hermetically sealed, covering it with solder while the vessel s remains boiling hot; the tins are, lastly, agi submitted to heat in the heated bath, t duration of which is proportioned to the qui, tity and character of their contents, the ‘ dre, ing’ of which is to be perfected by this ope tion. The ends of the tins, on cooling, assu a concave form, from the pressure of the mosphere, without which they cannot be s tight, and the process has been unsuccess! To determine this, the patentees expose 1 canisters, prepared as before, for at least month, in an apartment heated to about 1< Fahr.; when, if the process has failed, put faction commences, and the ends of the ca* instead of remaining concave, bulge, or beco convex. This is called the ‘test.’ By t process, which was invented by M. Appert France, about the year 1808, fish, flei POULTRY, and vegetables, may be preseri for years, in any climate. Goldner’s process differs somewhat from preceding, in the employment of a higi degree of heat, more hastily applied, and i prolonged or repeated after the tins are dered up. Gannal’s process, having for its object preservation of butcher’s meat in the FRi STATE, depends on the peculiar absorbent p • perty of the flesh of recently killed anim . above referred to. This process consists in • jecting a solution of sulphate of alumina, p better, of chloride of aluminium, of the sp. ■ 1-070 to 1-085 (10° to 12° Baume), into J