SULPHURIC ACID. 1252 towards the end of the 15th century. At first it was obtained by the distillation of green vitriol; but is now made by bringing sulphur- ous acid fumes, arising from the slow combus- tion of sulphur, into contact with those of nitric acid, evolved from a mixture of nitrate of soda and oil of vitriol, so that the former becomes oxidized at the expense of the latter. The process is conducted in leaden chambers, into which steam is admitted continuously by several jets, and which have about 3 inches of water resting on the floor, to absorb the acid. As soon as the water, or rather liquid acid, has acquired the sp. gr. of 1*35 to 1*50, it is drawn off, and concentrated by boiling in shallow leaden pans to the density of about 1*72, after which it is further concentrated in green-glass or platinum retorts, until the sp. gr. reaches 1*842 to 1*846. When cold, the clear acid is put into large globular bottles of green glass {carboys), surrounded with straw and basket- work, and is sent into the market under the name of ‘oil op titeiol.’ Purif. Commercial sulphuric acid frequently contains nitrous acid, arsenic, lead, and saline matter. The niteoijs acid may be removed by adding a little sulphate of ammonia, and heating the acid to ebullition for a few mi- nutes. Both nitric and nitrous acid are thus entirely decomposed into water and nitrogen gas. The aesenic may be got rid of by add- ing a little sulphuret of barium to the acid, agitating the mixture well, and, after repose, decanting and distilling it. Lead may be se- parated as a white precipitate by simply di- luting the acid with water. Salike mattee may be removed by simple rectification. A good way of purifying oil of vitriol is to heat it nearly to the boiling-point, and pass a cur- rent of hydrochloric acid through it; the ar- senic is thus carried over as the volatile chlo- ride of arsenic, while the nitrous and nitric acids are expelled almost completely. To ob- tain 2i perfectly pure acid, it should be distilled after the removal of the nitrous acid and ar- senic by the methods indicated above. “ The distillation is most conveniently conducted, on the small scale, in a glass retort, containing a few platinum chips, and heated by a sand bath or gas-flame, rejecting the first ^ fl. oz. that comes over.” (Ph. E.) In the Ph. D. the first tenth of the distillate is ordered to be re- jected, and the process to be stopped when no more than about 1 fl. oz. is left in the retort. According to Dr. Ure, the capacity of the re- tort should be from 4 to 8 times as great as the volume of the acid, and connected with a large tubular receiver by a loosely fitting glass tube, 4 feet long and 1 to 2 inches in diameter. “ The receiver should not be surrounded with cold water.” We find fragments of glass, or of rock crystal, may be advantageously sub- stituted for platinum foil, to lessen the explo- sive violence of the ebullition. Sulphuric acid which has become brown by exposure may be decolorized by heating it gently, the carbon of the organic substances being thus converted into carbonic acid. Prop. Commercial sulphuric acid {oil of vitriol) is a colourless, odourless, and highly corrosive liquid, the general properties of which are well known. Its sp. gr. at 60'’ should never be greater than 1*848, or less than 1*840. (Miller and Odling give the sp. gr. of the pure and concentrated acid as 1*842; Abel and Bloxam, as 1*848; Apjohn gives it as 1*846, and Hardwich about 1*845.) It is immediately coloured by contact with organic matter. It attracts water so rapidly from the atmosphere, when freely exposed to it, as to absorb l-3rd of its weight in 24 hours, and 6 times its weight in a few months. When 3 volumes are suddenly mixed with 2 of water, the temperature of the mixture rises more than 180° Fahr. Its freezing-point appears to be about 60° below that of w*ater (Miller and Odling give that of the rectified acid as-30° Fahr.; Apjohn and Abel and Bloxam, — 29°). It boils at about 620° Fahr. (620*6°, Odling; 620°, Hardwich and Fownes; 617°, Apjohn; 590*6°, Abel and Bloxam). It exhibits all the properties of the acids in an exalted de- gree. Its salts are called sulphates. Pur. “ Free from colour and odour. Sp. gr. 1*843. 100 gr. are saturated by 285 gr. of crystallized carbonate of soda.” (Ph. L.) “ What remains after the acid is distilled to dryness, does not exceed ^igth part of its weight. Diluted sulphuric acid is not discoloured by sulphuretted hydrogen.” (Ph. L. 1836.) “Di- luted with its own volume of water, only a scanty muddiness arises, and no orange fumes escape. Sp. gr. 1*840.” (Ph. E.) The eec- * TIEIED ACID (ACIDUM SULPHUEICUM PUEUM— ft Ph. E. & D.) is “ colourless; dilution causes no muddiness; solution of sulphate of iron shows no reddening at the line of contact when poured over it. Sp. gr. 1*845.” (Ph. E.) Sp. gr. 1*846—Ph. D.; 1*842—Ure. Tests.—See Sulphate. Uses, Sfc. Sulphuric acid is much employed in the arts, and, from its superior affinity, to disengage most of the other acids from their saline combinations in chemical processes. In the diluted state it is used in medicine. When swallowed, it acts as a violent corrosive poison. The antidotes are chalk, whiting, magnesia, carbonate of soda, or carbonate of potash, mixed with water, or any bland diluent, and taken freely, an emetic being also administered. Estim. The strength of sulphuric acid is most correctly ascertained by its power of saturating bases. In commerce, it is usually determined from its sp. gr. The quantity ol sulphuric acid present in a compound may be determined by w*eighing it under the form of sulphate, as explained in a former part of this volume. See Acidimetet. Concluding remarks. According to most of our standard works on chemistry, British oil of vitriol, when purified and brought to its maximum strength by distillation, is a definite