521 DISACRYLE—DISTEMPER. very soluble in water, but not in alcohol and ether. DISAC'RYLE. A white, flocculent, neutral substance, deposited by acroleine when long kept. DISCU'TIENTS. In surgertj, substances or agents which disperse or resolve tumours, &c. See Digestives. I DISINFECT'ANT. An agent which absorbs, I neutralizes, or destroys, putrescent elBuvia I and miasmata, and thus removes the causes of I infection. The principal disinfectants are I chlorine, the so-called ' chlorides ’ of lime and I soda, chloride of zinc, ozone, the alkaline man- I (janates and permanganates, peat charcoal, the j fumes of nitric, nitrous, and sidphurous acids, I heat, and ventilation. The last two are the I most elFicient and easily applied. The clothing, i bedding, &c., of patients labouring under con- tagious diseases may be effectually disin- I fected by exposure to a temperature a little I higher than that of boiling water, for about ; an hour. Neither the texture nor colour of textile fabrics is injured by a heat of even 250° Fahr. (Dr. Henry.) It is a practice at some of the workhouses to bake the clothes 1 of the paupers who have the itch, or who are I infested with vermin. Quicklime rapidly absorbs carbonic acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, I and several other noxious gases, and is there- 1 fore commonly used as a wash for the walls of I buildings. Acetic acid, camjAior, fragrant I pas tiles, cascarilla, brown paper, and other I similar substances, are frequently burnt or I volatilized by heat, for the purpose of dis- j guising unpleasant odours. The sulphates of i iron and lime have the property of rapidly i destroying noxious effluvia. A quantity of I either of these sulphates thrown into a cess- I pool, for instance, will in a few hours render q the matter therein quite scentless. Of gaseous disinfectants, “ sulphurous acid gas (obtained by burning sulphur) is preferable, on theo- retical grounds, to chlorine. No agent checks so effectually the first development of animal and vegetable life. All animal odours and emanations are immediately and most effec- tively destroyed by it.” (Graham.) See Anti- septic, Deodoeizee, Fumigation, Infection, Ozone, also the Disinfecting Compounds given below. Disinfecting Compounds. 1. (Sie Wm. Ruenett’s Disinfecting Liquid.) A con- centrated solution of chloride of zinc. See I Zinc. 2. (Collins’ Disinfecting Powdee.) A I mixture of dry ‘ chloride of lime/ 2 parts, and j bio'nt alum, 1 part. Used either dry or moist- 1 ened with Avater. See Lime. I 3. (Condy’s Disinfecting Fluids.) So- I lutions of the alkaline manganates and per- j manganates. See Manganese. i 4. (Elleeman’s Deodoeizing Fluid.) j This is said to consist chiefly of the per- \ chlorides and chlorides of iron and manga- ; nese. In a report addressed to the Meti*opolitan Board of Works in 1859, Drs. Hofmann and Frankland stated that the perchloride of iron was the cheapest and most efficient deodorizer that could be applied to sewage.” (Beasley.) 5. (Laeaeeaque’s Disinfecting Solu- tion; Liquoe sod.® chloeinat^, Ph. L. & D.) A solution of chlorinated soda, or, as it is commonly called, ‘chloride of soda.’ M. Labarraque made known this valuable disin- fectant in 1822, and obtained the prize of the French ‘Society for Encouraging National Industry ’ for its introduction. 6. (Ledoyen’s Disinfecting Fluid.) A solution of nitrate of lead, 1 part, in about 8 parts of water; or, of litharge, 13| oz., in nitric acid (sp. gr. 1*38), 12 oz., previously diluted with ivater, 6 pints. Sp. gr. 1’40. 7. (Sieet’s Disinfecting Compounds.) — a. A mixture of sulphate of lime, 53 lb., sulphate of iron, 40 lb., sulphate of zinc, 7 lb., and peat charcoal, 2 lb., made into balls. b. Sulphale of iron, 20 parts; sulphate of zinc, 10 parts; tan or waste oak-bark (in powder), 4 parts; tar and oil, of each, 1 part; as before. Used for deodorizing cesspools, Ac. DISLOCA'TION. Syn. Luxation; Dislo- CATio, L. The forcible displacement of a bone from its socket, either by violence or disease. The latter happens when the textures forming the joint have been destroyed by some independent organic affection. “A con- siderable share of anatomical knowledge is required to detect the nature of these acci- dents; and it is much to be lamented that students neglect to inform themselves suffi- ciently on the subject.” (Sir A. Cooper.) In common cases, the bones may be frequently replaced by forcibly extending the limb. This should be done as early as possible, and before inflammation sets in. The latter should be combated by aperients, local bleeding, refrig- erant lotions, &c. Dislocations frequently exist without the fact being suspected, the swelling and inflammation being referred to other causes. DISPLACE'MENT. See Peecolation. DISTEM'PER. a disease among dogs, usually characterised by a running from the nose and eyes, and a short, dry cough; fol- lowed by wasting of the flesh, and loss of strength and spirits. At length the brain suffers, and fits, paralysis of the extremities, or convulsions, come on. Laxatives and emetics are the best remedies. If there is much diarrhoea, astringents may be afterwards given. The violence of the fits may be miti- gated by the administration of antispasmodics, and by the warm bath. The distemper is a contagious disease, and is generally fatal to weakly and very young dogs. Fits in the advanced stages of the disease are seldom fol- lowed by recovery. Impatience of light, red eyes, obstinate diarrhoea, spasmodic twitchings.