VAN SWIETEN’S SOLUTION—VARNISH. 1299 VAN SWIETEN’S SOLUTION. Contains Ti^gth part of its weight of corrosive sub- limate; or ^ gr. per li. oz. (See pages 532 and 1216.) VARICEL'LA. Chicken-pox, (See page 1138.) VARI'OLA. Small-pox. (See page 1139.) VA'RIX. The permanent unequal dilation of a vein, or veins, which are then said to be t * VAKicosE.^ It is known by the presence of veins of the groin and scrotum generally form a collection of knots. The treatment consists of cold applications, and pressure from ban- j dages. Some cases are relieved by ligature. ' When occurring in the legs, much standing or , walking should be avoided, and the use of the elastic stockings made for the purpose will be I proper. I VAR'NISH. Syn. Veenis, Fr. Any liquid I matter, which, when applied to the surface ' of a solid body, becomes dry, and forms a i hard glossy coating, impervious to air and j moisture. I Varnishes are commonly divided into two I classes—fat or oil varnishes and spirit j VARNISHES. The fixed or volatile oils, or mix- I tures of them, are used as vehicles or solvents I in the former, and concentrated alcohol in the I latter.^ The sp. gr. of alcohol for the purpose of making varnishes should not be more than j *8156 (=■■ 67 o, p.), and it should be preferably I chosen of even greater strength. A little j camphor is often dissolved in it, to increase its ' solvent power. The oil of turpentine, which is : the essential oil chiefly employed for var- ! nishes, should be pure and colourless. Pale \ drying linseed oil is the fixed oil generally used; but poppy oil and nut oil are also occa- sionally employed. Among the substances j which are dissolved in the above menstrua are —amber, anime, copal, elemi, lac, mastic, and I sandarach, to impart body and lhstee; ! benzoin, on account of its agreeable odour ; annotta, gamboge, saffron, Socotrine aloes, and , turmeric, to give a YELLOW COLOUR; dragon’s j blood and red sandal wood, to give a red tinge ; I asphaltum, to give a black colour and body ; ! and caoutchouc to impart toughness and ■ ELASTICITY. In the preparation of spirit varnishes, care j should be taken to prevent the evaporation of I the alcohol as much as possible, and also to* j preserve the portion that evaporates. On the large scale, a common still may be advan- j tageously employed; the head being furnished j with a stuffing-box, to permit of the passage of I a vertical rod, connected with a stirrer at one end and a working handle at the other. The gum and spirit being introduced, the head of , the still closely fitted on and luted, and the I connection made with a proper refrigerator, ; heat (preferably that of steam or a water bath) ^ Methylated spirit is now generally used for making spirit varnishes, in place of duty-paid alcohol. should be applied, and the spirit brought to a gentle boil, after which it should be partially withdrawn, and agitation continued until the gum is dissolved. The spirit which has distilled over should be then added to the varnish, and, after thorough admixture, the whole should be run off*, as rapidly as possible, through a silk- gauze sieve, into stone jars, which should be immediately corked down, and set aside to clarify. On the small scale, spirit varnishes are best made by maceration in closed bottles or tin cans, either in the cold or by the heat of a water bath. In order to prevent the agglutination of the resin, it is often advan- tageously mixed with clean siliceous sand or pounded glass, by which the surface is much increased, and the solvent power of the men- struum greatly promoted. To ensure the excellence of oil varnishes, one of the most important points is the use of good drying oil. Linseed oil for this purpose should be very pale, perfectly limpid or transparent, scarcely odorous, and mellow and sweet to the taste.—100 gall, of such an oil is put into an iron or copper boiler, capable of holding fully 150 gall., gradually heated to a gentle simmer, and kept near that point for about 2 hours, to expel moisture; the scum is then carefully re- moved, and 14 lb. of finely pulverized scale litharge, 12 lb. of red lead, and 8 lb. of pow- dered umber (all carefully dried and free from moisture), are gradually sprinkled in; the whole is then kept well stirred, to prevent the driers sinking to the bottom, and the boiling is continued at a gentle heat for about 3 hours longer; the fire is next withdrawn, and, after 30 to 40 hours’ repose, the scum is carefully removed, and the clear supernatant oil de- canted from the ‘bottoms.’—The product forms the best ‘ boiled’ or ‘ drying-oil’ of the varnish-maker.—Another method is to heat a hogshead of the oil gradually for 2 hours, then to gently simmer it for about 3 hours longer, and, after removing the scum, to add, gradually, 1 lb. of the best calcined magnesia, observing to mix it up well with the oil, and, afterwards, to continue the boiling pretty briskly for at least an hour, with constant agitation. The fire is then allowed to die away, and, after 24 hours, the oil is decanted as before. The product is called ‘ clarified OIL,’ and requires to be used with driers. It should be allowed to lay in the cistern for 2 or 3 months to clarify. (See page 949.) In the preparation of oil varnishes, the * gum’ is melted as rapidly as possible, without dis- colouring or burning it; and when completely fused, the oil, also heated to nearly the boiling- point, is poured in, after which the mixture is boiled until it appears perfectly homo- geneous and clear, like oil, when the heat is raised, the driers (if any are to be used) gradually and cautiously sprinkled in, and the boiling continued, with constant stirring, for 3 or 4 hours, or until a little, when cooled on a palette knife, feels strong and stringy