595 ETHER. ' heavier than water, and possessing an aromatic t odour and taste. It boils at 410° Fahr., and is. 1 miscible with alcohol and ether. I Bora'cic Ether. Sj/n. Borate op oxide of I ETHYL; ^THER BOEACICHS, L. A thin, lim- [pid, ethereal liquid, obtained by M. Ellermann I by the action of chloride of boron on absolute \ alcohol. It is decomposed by water; its alco-1 ,holic solution burns with a green flame, at | !the same time evolving dense fumes of bo- iracic acid. Sp. gr. -885; boiling-point, 246° iFahr. ' Ohs. By substituting rectified spirit for lalcohol, other compounds containing a larger [portion of boracic acid are obtained. By lacting on anhydrous alcohol with fused boracic acid, a boracic ether is formed, which is a solid, glassy, fusible substance, only volatile in an I atmosphere of alcoholic vapour. ! Butyric Ether. Syn. Pine-apple oil ; '.Ether bhttrichs, L. Prep. 1. By passing hydrochloric acid gas into an alcoholic solution of butyric acid, and purifying the product from |free acid. 2. (Commercial.) From crude butyric acid saponified with caustic potassa or baryta, and the resulting soap distilled along with alcohol ind oil of vitriol. Uses. Crude butyric ether forms the ^ pine- IlPPLE oil’ of commerce, and when largely di- luted with rectified spirit, the ‘ pine-apple essence’ so much employed as a flavouring sub- stance by confectioners, liqueuristes, &c. It imparts a delicious flavour to sweetmeats, rum, arrack, punch, &c. The Germans add it to common rum, to form the flavouring for their ‘ pine-apple ale.’ See Essence and Oil (Volatile). Camphoric Ether. Syn. Aether campho- Ricus, L. Prep. By heating camphoric acid, sulphuric acid, and alcohol together, a colourless, syrupy liquid is formed, which is submitted to distillation, and the product dissolved in alcohol; as soon as the liquid ceases to deposit crystals (camphoric acid), 'water is added, when the ether separates under the form of an oily liquid, and is collected. It is heavier than water, and boils at 545° Fahr. Ether of Cantharldes. Syn. ^ther can- iharidalis, L. Prep. ((Ettinger.) From oowdered cantharides, 1 part; ether, 2 parts; digested together for 3 or 4 days, and the tincture expressed. Used as a vesicant, &c. Carbonic Ether. Sy7i. Carbonate op oxide OF ETHYL; .Ether carbonicijs, L. An ethe- real liquid discovered by Ettling. Prep. (Liebig.) Fragments of potassium are ladded to oxalic ether, gently warmed, as long las bubbles of gas are formed; the excess of jmetal is removed from the semi-solid mass, [some water added, and the whole distilled. |The carbonic ether floats on the surface of the lliquid in the receiver, and is collected, dried by contact with chloride of calcium, and rectified along with some potassium or sodium, till it ceases to yield acetate of potassa when acted on by caustic potassa. Prop., &fc. Colourless, limpid, and aro- matic; tastes pungent and burning; boils at 259° to 260° Fahr. It greatly resembles oxalic ether. It is decomposed by alkalies. Chlo'lic Ether. This name was applied by Dr. T. Thomson to the chloride op olefiant GAS, or ‘ Dutch liquid’ ; and afterwards, by Guthrie and Silliman, to chloroform, which they took for an alcoholic solution of chloride of olefiant gas. It now forms one of the sy- nonyms of chloroform. The medicinal ‘chloric ether’ of the shops is a solution of chloro- form, 1 part, in rectified spirit, 8 parts; of which the dose is 20 or 30 drops, in water, as an antispasmodic and anodyne. See Chlo- roform. Chlorinet'ted Ether. Formed by the action of dry chlorine on pure ether. When the action is long continued, a heavy, oily product (bichlorinetted ether), smelling like fennel, is formed. By the still further action of chlo- rine, aided by sunlight, a white, crystalline substance (pentachlorinetted ether), a compound resembling sesquichloride of carlDon, is obtained. Chlorocarbon'ic Ether. Syn. Aether chloro- CARBONicus, L. Dumas has given this name to a peculiar liquid formed by saturating abso- lute alcohol with chlorocarbonic acid (phosgene gas). The lower stratum that forms is the ether. It is purified by standing over oxide of lead and chloride of calcium, and by subsequent rectification. It has a disagreeable smell; boils at 200° Fahr.; burns with a green flame, and is decomposed by water. Sp. gr. 1-133. Cu"preous Ether. Syn. Tinctura cupri CHLORiDi JETHEREA, L. Prep. (Van Mons.) Sulphate of copper, 6 parts, and chloride of barium, 5 parts, are triturated together, and the mixture digested in ether, 3 or 4 parts, until all the chloride of copper is dissolved. Dose. 2 to 5 drops; in epilepsy, &c. Cyan'ic Ether. Syn. Cyan ate of oxide OF ETHYL ; ^THER CYANICUS, L. Prep. By distilling a dry mixture of cyanate of potassa and sulphovinate of potassa, in nearly equiva- lent proportions. A mixture of cyanic and cyanuric ethers passes over into the receiver. By distilling this mixture the two are readily separated; that which passes over by the heat of a water bath being the first, and the re- siduum in the retort the second. Pi'op., S^'c. An ethereal, very mobile liquid, boiling at 140° Fahr. Cyanu'ric Ether. Syn. Cyanurate of oxide OF ETHYL; AETHER CYANURICUS, L. Prep. 1. See Cyanic Ether. 2. By distilling a mixture of sulphovinate of potassa and cyanurate of potassa, as above, by the heat of a sand bath. 3. (Wohler and Liebig.) A mixture of ah cohol and ether is saturated with hydrated cyanic acid, in vapour ; in 14 hours the crystals