HYPOSULPHATE—ICES. 751 deoxidizing agent, and forms salts with the bases called hypophosphites (see above). HYPOSULTHATE. Syn. Dithionate; Hy- POSULPHAS, L. A salt of liyposulphuric acid. HYPOSULTHITE. Syn. Thiosulphate ; IIyposulphis, L. a salt of hyposulphurous acid. HYPOSULPHU'RIC ACID. Syn. Dithionic ACID; Acidum hyposulphuricum, L. An acid compound of sulphur and oxygen, disco- vered hy Welter and Gay-Lussac. Prep. Sul- phurous acid gas is passed through water holding in suspension hinoxide of manganese, in fine powder. If the temperature he kept low, hyposulphate or dithionate of manganese is formed, together with a little sulphate of man- ganese. By adding hydrate of baryta, a pre- cipitate is formed, consisting of hydrate of manganese and sulphate of baryta, and dithionate of baryta is left in solution. By carefully precipitating the baryta hy an exact sufficiency of sulphuric acid, a solution of HYPOSULPHURic ACID is obtained. This may be concentrated in vacuo over oil of vitriol until its sp. gr. reaches 1-347. The salts of this acid (hyposulphates, dithionates) are all soluble in water, and decomposable hy heat. They are unimportant compounds. HYPOSUL'PHUROUS ACID. Syn. Thio- SULPHUEic ACID. It is doubtful whether this compound has ever been isolated. It is formed * in combination with the bases, either by I digesting sulphur in solutions of the sulphites, or by passing sulphurous acid gas into solutions of alkaline sulphurets. The hyposulphites I OP POTASSA and SODA possess the remarkable f property of dissolving a large quantity of chloride of silver, and some other metallic compounds j hence their use in the art of pho- I tography. See Soda, &c. ^ HYRA'CEUM. A substance produced by the Cape badger {Hyrax Capensis), and pro- > posed as a substitute for castoeeum. Pereira 1 considered it to he inert and useless. { HYSTERICS. Syn. Hysteria, Passio t HYSTERICA, L. In pathology, a nervous affec- I tion peculiar to women, attacking in paroxysms I or fits, preceded by dejection, tears, difficult ' breathing, sickness, and palpitation of the I heart. The treatment of this disease varies with the causes and the symptoms. Bleeding, cupping, and depletives, are generally had re- course to in robust and plethoric habits, and stimulants and tonics in those of a weakly or relaxed constitution. Affusion of cold water and nasal stimulants will frequently remove the fit in mild cases. Exercise, proper amuse- ments, and regular hours and diet, are the best preventives. See Draught (Antihysteric and Hydrocyanic), &c. ICE. Syn. Glacies, L. Water in the solid state. On being cooled, water gradually con- tracts until the temperature has fallen to 39-9° Fahr., when it begins to expand. At the! freezing-point, 32° Fahr., under ordinary con- ditions, water crystallizes or freezes, and in consequence of the continued expansion, the sp. gr. of ice, as compared with that of water at 39-9°, is as *94 to I'OO. Ice has the pecu- liar property of reuniting hy the contact of adjoining surfaces after having been broken into fragments (regelation). Coloured water and salt water, by freezing, produce colourless and fresh ice; and clean solid ice, when thawed, furnishes water equal in purity to that which has been distilled. The use of ice in the preparation of ice- creams, iced-LIQUORS, &c., is noticed else- where. The confectioner collects his ice as early as possible during the winter, and stores it in a well-drained well or excavation, some- what of the form of an inverted sugar-loaf, contained in a small shed or building called an ice-house. This building should always he situated on a dry sandy soil, and, if possible, on an eminence. The door should he on the north side, and the roof should he conical and thickly thatched with straw. In medicine, ice is frequently employed ex- ternally in infiammation of the brain, to resolve inflammation, to stop haemorrhage, to constringe relaxed parts, and a,s an anodyne, to deaden pain. For these purposes it is pounded small, in a cloth, and placed in a bladder or hag of gauze (ice-cap, ice-poul- tice) before applying it. Internally, ice or ice-cold water has been given with advantage in heartburn, typhus, inflammation and spasms of the stomach, to check the vomiting in cho- lera, and to arrest haemorrhage, whether bronchial, gastric, nasal, or uterine. Very recently, ice has been proposed as a remedy in the treatment of diphtheria. Small lumps of ice, or a small glassful of pounded ice-and- water, will often temporarily restore the tone of the stomach and nervous system during hot weather, when all other means fail. Ice- creams, taken in moderation, act in the same way. In the warmer climates of Europe an ice- house or an ice-saee (a reerigeeator) is a necessary appendage to every respectable dwelling, not merely for the purpose of pleasing the palate with iced beverages, but to enable the residents to preserve their provisions (fish, meat, game, milk, butter, &c.) in a wholesome state from day to day. See Kepeigeeation. ICE'LAND MOSS. Syn. Cetraria (Ph. L.), Lichen Islandicus, L. The lichen termed Cetraria Islandicus. It is much employed, both as a nutritious food and as a mild mucila- ginous tonic, in catarrh and consumption. It may be purified from its bitter principle by a little cold solution of potassa. ICES. (In confectionery.) These are com- monly composed of cream or sweetened water, variously flavoured, and congealed by ice or a freezing mixture. Sometimes, instead of cream, the materials of a custard are used. The mixed ingredients are placed in a tin furnished with