GUARANA—GUM. 719 the quality of the guano examined, without the expense and trouble of a complete analysis of this substance. Urea and uric acid are only to be found in the very best samples of guano, and their presence is a positive proof of entire soundness and superior quality. The other valuable portions of guano are potassa and phosphoric acid (phosphate of lime chiefly); the rest are of little importance. (See 2, c, above.) GUARANA'. Syn. Paullinia, Beazilian COCOA. An alimentary and medicinal sub- stance prepared from the seeds of Paullinia sorbilis, a Brazilian tree. The dried seeds, deprived of their ‘aril,' are pounded and kneaded into a mass, which is afterwards made into oblong or rounded cakes (guarana bread). These cakes are used as we use chocolate—mixed with water and sugar, and drank as a beverage. In Brazil this beverage is largely consumed, both on account of its nutritive qualities, and for its stomachic, febi i- fugal, and aphrodisiac efi'ects. See Chocolate, &c., also below. GUARANINE'. A crystalline substance, discovered by M. Martins, in gtjaeana. It appears to be identical with caffeine, the active principle of coffee and tea. GUD'GEON. The Cyprinus gobeo (Linn.), a small fresh-water fish, common almost every- where. The ‘ white’ is considered the best. It was formerly used in medicine. GUM. Syn. Gummi, L. The general term for an important class of vegetable pro- ducts. Gums are more or less soluble in cold water, but insoluble in alcohol, ether, and oils. They are obtained from certain plants in amor- phous masses; most of them exude sponta- neously, or on puncturing the bark. The most perfect type of this class is the substance called GUM ARABIC, Or GUM ACACIA. The gums are employed as demulcents in medicine, and are used as cements, and for giving stiffness and gloss to textile fabrics. Among the vulgar the terra is often incorrectly applied to the resins and gum resins. Gum Ar'abic. Syn. Gum acacia; G. AEABICUM, G. ACACIA, ACACIA (Ph. L.), L. “ From various species” (of Acacia) “ yielding gum” (Ph. L. & E.), chiefly Acacia arabica and A. vera. “ Whitish or yellowish, trans- parent or cracked on the surface, and opaque ; brittle ; it dissolves freely in water.” (Ph. L.) It is scentless, and may be bleached by expo- sure to the sun and air, at the temperature of boiling water. Sp. gr. 1'355. (Ure.) The pure soluble principle of gum arable is termed arabine (which see). Barbaey or Mo- rocco GUM, Gum Senegal, and East India GUM, are inferior commercial varieties of the same substance from other species of Acacia (see below). Powdered gum arabic (PULVIS acacije) is frequently adulterated with flour or farina, or with Senegal or other inferior gums. The first may be detected by agitating a little of the powder with cold water; the pure gum dis- solves rapidly, whilst the starch or flour falls to the bottom of the vessel. Or, a little of the powder may be mixed with boiling water, and when cold, tested with tincture of iodine ; if it contains starch or flour, the paste will assiiine a blue colour. If it contains cherry-tree ymn or tragacanth, it will be only partly so- luble in cold water, and the paste will be partly coloured, and more or less interspersed with gelatinous clots. Much of the white gum arabic of the shops is formed by bleaching gum Senegal, by what is called ‘ Picciotto's process.* The gum is dissolved in water, and sulphurous acid gas passed .through the solution. The liquid is afterwards boiled to expel the sulphurous acid, a little of which, however, still remains be- hind. To obtain the gum in a still whiter state, carbonate of baryta is added, and after agitation, the mixture is filtered; it is after- wards shaken with gelatinous alumina, again fil- tered, and evaporated. The product (bleached gum) is very white, but lacks the peculiar toughness and adhesiveness of the best gum acacia. Barbary Gum. Syn. Morocco gum. An inferior product, consisting of a mixture of several Acacia gums. It is exported from Mogador. , Bassora Gum. A solution or yellowish gum brought from the neighbourhood of Bassora. It difters from most gums in being nearly in- soluble in water. The plant yielding it is be- lieved to be a species of Mimosa. It contains the principle, bassorine, which also exists in gum tragacanth. Bleached Gum. See Gum Arabic iabove). British Gum. Syn. Dextrine, Starch GUM. Starch converted by the action of acids, diastase, or heat, into a soluble sub- stance resembling gum. Prep. 1. Malt (crushed small), 1 lb.; warm water, 2 gall.; mix, heat the whole to 145° Fahr., add of potato starch, 5 lb., raise the heat to 160° or 165° Fahr., and mash for about 25 minutes, or until the liquid becomes thin and clear; it must then be instantly run off, and raised to the boiling-point to prevent the formation of sugar; after boiling for 3 or 4 minutes, the whole must be filtered, and eva- porated to dryness by a steam heat. 2. By exposing dry potato starch, in a stove, to a heat of about 400° Fahr. Yellow and inferior. 3. (M. Payen.) Dry starch, 1 ton, is moistened uniformly with concentrated nitric acid, 4| lb., (diluted with) water, q. s., and the paste or dough is made up into small bricks or loaves, and dried in a stove; it is next reduced to coarse powder, and exposed in a stove-room for some time to a current • of air at 160° to 165° Fahr.; it is next ground, sifted, and exposed, as before, to a heat of about 228° Fahr.; it is, lastly, ground, and passed through the ‘bolting machine.’ Very white