SYRUP. 1257 jiteain or a water bath) to finish the solution. Some persons (falsely) deem a syrup ill pre- pared unless it has been allowed to boil well; I jut if this method be adopted, the ebullition jliould be only of the gentlest kind simmer- 'ny'), and should be checked after the lapse of I or 2 minutes. ' When it is necessary to thicken a syrup |jy boiling, a few fragments of glass should je introduced, in order to lower the boiling- jpoint. 1 To make highly transparent syrups, the \mgar should be in a single lump, and, by pre- iference, taken from the bottom or broad end of ,:he loaf, as, when taken from the smaller end. Dr if it be powdered or bruised, the syrup will jbe more or less cloudy. Syrups are judged, by the laboratory man, ;o be sufficiently boiled when some taken up in i spoon pours out like oil, or, a drop cooled jn the thumb-nail gives a proper ‘ thread’ ivhen touched. When a thin skim appears on blowing upon the syrup, it is judged, by the Ijame party, to be completely saturated. These I’ude tests often lead to errors, which might be basily prevented by employing the proper pro- portions, or determining the sp. gr. I A fluid ounce of satueated syeup weighs |)77^ gr.; a gallon weighs 13i lb. (avoir.); its j;p. gr. is 1-319 to 1*321, or 35° of Baume’s aerometer; its boiling-point is 221° Fahr., and Its density at the temperature of 212° is 1*260 1-0 1-261, or 30° Baume. The syrups pre- uared with the juices of fruits, or which j'ontain much extractive matter, as those l)f sarsaparilla, poppies, &c., mark about 2° l)r 3° more on Baume’s scale than the other jiyrups. i In most pharmaceutical works directions lire given to completely satm*ate the water with lugar. Our own experience, which is exten- sive, leads us to disapprove of such a practice, liince we find that, under all ordinary circum- jitances, a syrup with a very slight excess of i.vater keeps better than one fully saturated. l[n the latter case a portion of sugar generally Crystallizes out on standing, and thus, by abstracting sugar from the remainder of the jiyrup, so weakens it, that it rapidly ferments jind spoils. This change proceeds at a rapidity iproportionate to the temperature. Saturated :yrup kept in a vessel that is frequently un- \^orked or exposed to the air soon loses suffi- bient water, by evaporation from its surface, to Cause the formation of minute crystals of sugar, which, falling to the bottom of the vessel. Continue to increase in size at the expense of bhe sugar in the solution. We have seen a bingle 6-gallon stone bottle, in which syrup 'las been kept for some time, the inside of i-vliich, when broken, has been found to be en- i.irely cased with sugar candy, amounting in sveight to 16 or 18 lb. On the other hand, \yrups containing too much water also rapidly erinent, and become acescent; but of the two, his is the less evil, and may be more easily prevented. The proportions of sugar and water given above will form an excellent syrup, pro- vided care be taken that an undue quantity be not lost by evaporation. The decimal part of the number denoting the sp. gr. of a syrup, multiplied by 26, gives the number of pounds of sugar it contains per gallon, very nearly. (Ure.) In boiling syrups, if they appear likely to boil over, a little oil, or rubbing the edges of the pan with soap, will prevent it. Syrups may be decoloured by agitation with, or flltration through, recently burnt animal charcoal. (See page 512.) Medicated syrups should not, however, be treated in this way. The preservation of syrups, as well as of all other saccharine solutions, is best promoted by keeping them in a moderately cool, but not a very cold, place. “ Let syrups be kept in ves- sels well closed, and in a situation where the temperature never rises above 55° Fahr.” (Ph. L.) They are better kept in small rather than in large bottles, as the longer a bottle lasts the more frequently it will be opened, and, consequently, the more it will be exposed to the air. By bottling syrups whilst boiling hot, and immediately corking down and tying the bottles over with bladder perfectly air- tight, they may be preserved, even at a summer heat, for years, without fermenting or losing their transparency. The ‘candying’ or crystallization, of syrup, unless it be oversaturated with sugar, may be prevented by the addition of a little acetic or citric acid (2 or 3 dr. per gall.). The fermentation of syrups may be effec- tually prevented by the addition of a little sulphite of potassa or of lime. Chlorate of potassa has been proposed for this purpose by Dr. Macculloch, on theoretical grounds. M. Chereau recommends the addition of some (about 3 to 4g) sugar of milk, with the same intention. Mr. Durand asserts that by adding about 1 fl. dr. of ‘ Hoffmann’s anodyne' to each pint of syrup, the accession of fermentation may not only be prevented, but arrested when it occurs. Fermenting syrups may be immedi- ately restored by exposing the vessel containing them to the temperature of boiling water. The addition of a little spirit is ordered in the new ‘ London Pharmacopoeia.’ In making the above additions to syrup, care must be had not to mix incompatible substances. Thus, in general, the two methods referred to cannot be practised together. Syrup is, perhaps, the worst possible form of medicine, owing to the difficulty of accurately saturating it with active medicinals, and its liability to change. Few persons think that “ sweetness renders a nauseous drug more palatable.” 'YXxe following formulce embrace all the syrups (sTEUPi) which are officinal in these countries. Those not included in the list may be easily made by adding to simple syrup a concen-