25 ACETITE—ACETYLE. of the vinegar. Thus:—the sp. gr. of a sample of vinegar being 1*014, and c^ter satu- ration with hydrate of lime 1*023, the sp. gr. of the pure vinegar would he 1*009, and that due to foreign matter *005. For— •028—*023 = *005 and— 1.Q14—*005 = 1*009 As both dry, anhydrous, or real acetic acid, and hydrated, monohydrated, or glacial acetic acid, are unavoidably referred to in speaking of strengths, it is convenient to remember that 51 parts of the former are equal to 60 parts of the latter; or, what is the same thing, the weight of— Hydr. or Glacial acid Anhydr. acid; and of— Anhydr. acid xl'1748 =Hydr. or Glac. acid (nearly). The reason why the revenue proof-vinegar is called, in commerce. No. 24, is that 1 ji. oz. of it requires exactly 24 gr. of pure anhydrous carbonate of soda to neutralise it. Weaker vinegars are represented in the same ‘notation ^ by the Nos. 22, 20, 18, &c., according to their respective strengths estimated by their satu- rating power. See Acetic Acid, Acidimetey, Nomenclatuee, and Vinegae. AC'ETITE t (as'-e-). See Acetous Acid. ACE'TO-BENZOIC ACID. One of the new anhydrous double acids discovered by Gerhardt. It is obtained by the action of chloride of ben- zoyle on fused acetate of soda, or of chloride of acetyle on benzoate of soda. It resembles oil in appearance; is heavier than water, which slowly decomposes it; smells like Spanish wine; and is decomposed by heat and the bases, which separate the acids. See Acids (Organic). Aceto-cinnam'ic Acid. From chloride of benzoyle and cinnamate of soda ; as the last. Aceto-cumin'ic Acid. As the preceding, but using cuminate of soda or potassa. ACETOLATS (acetolats). [Fr.] Syn. Es- PEITS ACETIQUES, Fr. In Fr. pharmacy, medicated vinegars obtained by distillation. ACETOLES (acefcoles).[Fr.]‘ln Fr. pharm., medicated vinegars obtained by maceration. ACETOM'ETER, Acetom'etry. See Aceti- me tee, Acetimetet. AC'ETONE (as'-e-tone; ace'tone, as given by Brande, is less usual). See Pteo-acetic Spieit. ACE'TONITRILE (-ni-tril). A colourless, volatile liquid usually obtained by distilling solid acetate of ammonia with anhydrous phosphoric acid. It is nearly immiscible with water; has an aromatic odour; and boils at 170^° Fahr. When boiled with acids or al- kalies it is reconverted into acetate of ammo- nia. Acetonitrile is identical with cyanide OF METHYLE (which sec); and is interesting chiefly on account of being the type of a class of chemical substances formed in a similar manner. ACE'TOUS ACIDf. It was formerly sup- posed that there were two vinegar-acids con- taining different proportions of oxygen, which were accordingly named acetous acid and ACETIC ACID; the salts of the former being termed acetites, and those of the latter, ACETATES. Modem research has shown their identity. ACETOUS FERMENTATION. In chemistry, the changes which occur in worts and vinous liquids, producing vinegar. See Acetification. ACE'TUM. [L.] Vinegar. ACETYL'AMINE (as-e-til'-a-mm). Syn. Ace- tyl-ammo'nia. A new organic alkali dis- covered by M. Natanson, and produced by the action of chloride of ethylene on an alcoholic solution of ammonia. It is an oily liquid, which boils at 424° Fahr. Sp. gr. *975 at 59° Fahr. See Ethylamine. AC'ETYLE (as'-e-til). Syn. Ac'etyl; Ac'e- TULE f. A n*ame originally given to the hypo- thetical radical of the series of compounds to which acetic acid belongs; as exhibited in the following Table:— Acetyle (hypothetical) . . C4H3 Oxide of acetyle (ditto) . . C4H3, O Hydrate of oxide of acetyle {aldehyde) ^ C4H3O, HO Acetylous acid {aldehydic acid) C4H3O2, HO Acetylic (acetic) acid, anhy- drous C4H3O3 Ditto (ditto) hydrate of . C4H3O3, HO or Aq. This is the acetyle of Berzelius, and of others who deny the existence of ‘ oxidised ’ radicals. It is derived from ‘ ethyle * by the oxygenation and removal of two equivalents of hydrogen. As this radical is now generally assumed to be present in aldehyde, even by those who oppose the doctrine of Berzelius, it has been proposed to distinguish it by the name of aldehyde or aldyle. With a like object it is also frequently called vinyle. The researches of Gerhardt, on the other hand, having theoretically established the fact, that the true radical of acetic acid is an oxidised compound with the formula C4H3O2, this latter is generally known as acetyle, or ace'tetyle, or the acetyle of Gerhardt, among later chemists. According to Dr. Williamson, this radical is derived from ‘ethyle’ by the replacement of 2 equiv. of hydrogen by 2 equiv. of oxygen; and on theoretical grounds, as well as to remove the confusion of terms now existing, he proposes to call it o'thyle. The constitution of acetic acid thus becomes analogous to that of benzoic acid, in which Liebig and Wohler assume a peculiar radical, benzoyle C14H5O2. Hence— Acetyle, of Gerhardt (othyle) C4H3O2 Oxide of do. (anhydr. acetic acid) C4H3O2, O Hydrated oxide of do. (hydr. acetic acid) C4H3O3, HO Among the compounds of acetyle (C4H3)