1250 SULPHUK. or baryta, the sulphovinales yield a sulphate of the base and alcohol. SULTHUE. [Eng., L.] Syn. Brimstone; SouEEE, Er. An undecompounded substance, or chemical element, the general properties of which are well known. That of commerce is chiefly imported from Sicily and Italy, and is a volcanic production. Var. The principal of these are— Amorphous sulphur. Brown s. ; Sulphur AMORPHUM, S. FUSCUM, S. INFORME, S. RU- BRUM, L. Prepared from sublimed sulphur^ by melting it, increasing the heat to from 320° to 350° Fahr., and continuing it at that temperature for about half an hour, or until it becomes brown and viscid, and then pouring it into water. In this state it is ductile, like wax, may be easily moulded in any form, is much heavier than usual, and when it has cooled does not again become fluid until heated to above 600° Fahr. The same effect is pro- duced more rapidly by at once raising the temperature of the melted mass to from 430° to 480° Fahr. Precipitated sulphur. Hydrate of sul- phur, Milk of s. ; Sulphuris hydras. Lac suLPHURis, Sulphur precipitatum (Ph. L.), L. Prep. From sublimed sulphur, 1 part; dry and recently slaked lime, 2 parts; water, 25 parts, or q. s.; boil for 2 or 3 hours, dilute with 25 parts more of water, filter, and preci- pitate with dilute hydrochloric acid; drain, and well wash the precipitate, and dry it by a gentle heat. Resembles sublimed sulphur in its general properties, but is much paler, and in a finer state of division. “ Pale yellow’^ (not white)—Ph. L. Roll sulphur. Cane s.. Stick s. ; Sul- phur IN BACCULIS, S. IN ROTULIS, S. ROTUN- DUM, L. This is crude sulphur, purified by melting and skimming it, and then pouring it into moulds. That obtained during the roasting of copper pyrites, and which forms the common roll sulphur of England, fre- quently contains from 3 to 7§ of yellow ar- senic. Sublimed sulphur, Flowers of sulphur ; Flores sulphuris. Sulphur (Ph. L.), Sul- phur sublimatum (Ph. E. & D.), L. Pre- pared by subliming sulphur in iron vessels. For medical purposes, it is ordered to be well washed with water, and dried by a gentle heat. In this state it forms the washed sul- phur (sulphur lotum—Ph. L. 1824) of old pharmacy. In this state it is “of a lemon colour; is sublimed at the heat of 600° Fahr., and is entirely soluble in oil of turpentine aided by heat.” (Ph. L.) “When w'ashed with water, it (the liquid) does not alter the colour of litmus.” (Ph. L. 1836.) Sulphur tivum. Black sulphur. Crude s.. Horse brimstone ; Sulphur nigrum, S. CABALLINUM, S. GRISEUM, L. This is Crude native sulphur. It is a gray or mouse-coloured powder. The residuum in the subliming pots from the preparation of flowers of sulphur is now commonly substituted for it. It gent rally contains much arsenic, and is const quently very poisonous. Pur. The sublimed sulphur of the shop is now, in general, of respectable quality, bu the PRECIPITATED SULPHUR frequently con. tains about | of its weight of sulphate t lime {plaster of Paris), owing to the substik tion of sulphuric acid for hydrochloric acid i its manufacture. This fraud is readily delecte by strongly heating a little of the suspecte sample in an iron spoon or shovel, when tn sulphur is burnt or volatilized, and leaves bt hind the sulphate of lime as a white ash; thi when mixed with water, and gently drie( gives the amount of the adulteration. A sti simpler plan is to dissolve out the sulphur i the sample with a little hot oil of turpentir or liquor of potassa ; the undissolved portio is foreign matter. Prop. Sulphur melts to a clear thin fluif and volatilizes at about 232° Fahr., and i open vessels rapidly takes fire, burning with bluish flame. It is insoluble in both wat( and alcohol; it is soluble in oil of turpentir and the fatty oils, and freely so in bisulphur* of carbon and hot liquor of potassa. Wit. oxygen it unites to form oil of vitriol ar SULPHUROUS ACID, and with the metals ‘ form SULPHURETS. Sp. gr. 1*982 to 2*015. Estim. The determination of the quantil of sulphur, phosphorus, and chlorine, in a sta' of combination, especially in organic mixture is often rather troublesome. The proporti* of SULPHUR is best determined by oxidizii ^ a known weight of the substance by stroi nitric acid, or by fusing it in a silver vessel wit 10 or 12 times its weight of pure hydrate tt potassa and about half as much nitre. TI sulphur is thus converted into sulphuric aci j^j the quantity of which can be determined 1 dissolving the fused mass in water, acidulatii the solution with nitric acid, adding a salt baryta, and Aveighing the resulting snlphai Phosphorus is, in like manner, oxidized j phosphoric acid, the quantity of which is d termined by precipitation in combination wi sesquioxide of iron, or otherwise. The chl ij, RiNE is correctly determined by placing small weighed portion in a combustion-lm ,i, which is afterwards filled with fragments " pure quicklime. The lime is then brought tc red heat, and the vapour of the liquid driv over it, when chloride of calcium is foruK j,' The contents of the tube, when cold, are d ,p,' solved in dilute nitric acid, filtered, the cht rine jjrecipitated by nitrate of silver, and t chlorine weighed under the form of chloride "* silver. See Organic Substances. Uses, 8^c. Sulphur is extensively used the manufacture of gunpowder, in bleachir &c. &c. When swallowed, it acts as a m laxative and stimulating diaphoretic; and 1 hence been long taken in various chronic sk diseases, in pulmonary, rheumatic, and gcu,^ " affections, and as a mild purgative in pifo