P YKOTECHN Y—PYROXYLIN. 1153 (I tructive distillation of tartaric acid. See Irtaric Acid. IpYROTECH'NY. The art of making fire- ’|rks. The three principal materials em- 0ed in this art are charcoal, nitre, and ri.PHFR, along with filings of iron, steel, (I’PER, or ZINC, or with resin, camphor, ]|:^0P0DiFM, or other substances, to impart (bur, or to modify the effect or the duration / the combustion. Gunpowder is used ‘uther in grain, half crushed, or finely ground, j different purposes. The longer the iron hgs are, the brighter red and white spots ily give; those being preferred which are ijde with a coarse file, and quite free from t. Steel filings and cast-iron borings ;tain carbon, and afford a more brilliant 1, with wavy radiations. Copper filings '^e a greenish tint to fiame ; those of zinc, a li3 blue colour ; the sulphuret of antimony es a less greenish blue than zinc, but with ch smoke; amber affords a yelloxo fire, as I as COLOPHONY (resin) and common salt ; 1; the last must be very dry. Lampblack ] (luces a very red colour with gunpowder, i I a pink one with nitre in excess; it serves 1 making golden showers.” When this sub- tjiice is lightly mixed with gunpowder and ]j; into cases, it throws out small stars resem- pg the rowel of a spur; this composition i hence been called ‘spur fire.’ “The ’[llow sand, or glistening mica, com- ilnicates to fire-works golden radiations. iRDiQRis imparts a pale green; sulphate 1 copper and sal ammoniac give a palm-tree >}en. Camphor yields a very white fiame »|l aromatic fumes, which masks the bad II of other substances. Benzoin and )RAX are also used, on account of their eeable odour. Lycopodium burns with a ? colour and a magnificent flame; but it is ]ndpally employed in theatres to represent 1 htning, or to charge the torch of a Fury.” 'e.) See Fires (Coloured), Flame Colours, npowder, Stars, Rockets, &c. PYROXYL'IC SPIRIT. See Spirit (Py- ylic). PYROX'YLIN. Syn. Fulminating cotton. N-c. A highly inflammable and explosive <npound, discovered by Schonbein. It is ained by the action of nitric acid on cotton, ithe presence of sulphuric acid. ^rep. 1. Concentrated nitric acid (sp. gr. 00) and concentrated sulphuric acid (sp. gr. 15) are mixed together in about equal asures; when the mixture has become cold, jis poured into a glass or wedgwood-ware ’Ir/ar or basin, and clean, dry carded cotton, IS loose a state as practicable, is immersed it for 4 or 5 minutes, the action of the liquid iig promoted by incessant stirring with a S3 rod; the acid is next poured off, and the ton, after being squeezed as dry as possible, means of the glass stirrer, or between two tes of glass, is thrown into a largo quantity clean soft water, and again squeezed to free it from superfluous moisture; it is then washed in a stream of pure water until it becomes per- fectly free from acid, and is, lastly, carefully dried by the heat of hot water or steam, at a temperature not higher than about 180° Fahr. 2. (Schonbein.) Nitric acid (1*45 to 1*50), 1 part; sulphuric 'acid (1’85), 3 parts; (both by volume;) proceed as above, but, after the cotton has been squeezed from the acid, allow it to remain in a covered vessel for an hour before washing it; and after washing it, dip it into a solution of carbonate of potassa, 1 oz., in pure water, 1 gall., then squeeze, and par- tially dry it; next dip it into a weak solution of nitre, and dry it in a room heated by hot air or steam to about 150° Fahr. (See Pa- tent Specif). 3. (Von Lenk.) The cotton, having been thoroughly cleansed and dried, is steeped, as above, in a mixture of nitre and sulphuric acids (the strongest obtainable in commerce), squeezed as dry as possible, and Immersed in a fresh mixture of strong acids, being allowed to re- main in this second mixture 48 hours. It is then washed in a stream of water for several weeks, and finally treated wflth a solution of silicate of jJotassa (soluble glass). This is the celebrated Austrian gun-cotton which was reported on so favourably by a committee of the British Association in 1863. The treat- ment with silicate of potassa is adopted merely for the purpose of retarding the combustion. 4. (‘ Bulletin de St. Petersbourg.’)—a. Take of powdered nitre, 20 parts; sulphuric acid (1-830 to 1-835), 31 parts ; dissolve in a glass vessel, and, whilst the solution is still warm (122° Fahr.), add of dry carded cotton, 1 part, and employ agitation until this last is well saturated; then cover over the vessel with a plate of glass, and let it stand, for 24 hours, at a temperature of about 86° Fahr.; next well wash the cotton, as above, first with cold and afterwards with boiling water, and dry it care- fully at a very low temperature. b. From sulphuric acid (containing 3 equiv. of water), 13 parts; nitric acid (monohydrated), 12 parts; carded cotton, 1 part; the immer- sion being limited to one hour at a tempe- rature of from 104° to 122° Fahr. (See ‘ Pharm. Journ.,’ vol, xiii. No. 2.) Prop., Sfc. Pyroxylin explodes, with a very sudden flash, and the development of very little heat, without either smoke or residue, at a temperature of about 300° Fahr. (No. 3 at 277° Fahr.). Several modifications of pyroxy- lin are known, varying considerably in compo- sition, though they all contain the elements of hyponitric acid, and are all explosive. Some are insoluble in a mixture of ether and alcohol, whilst others are readily dissolved, forming the glutinous solution which is used in surgery under the name of'COLLODION,’ and which is also extensively used in photography. The best gun- cotton (Von Lenk’s) is of no use whatever for making collodion. The pyroxylin prepared by the formula 4, a {above), is soluble in a mixture 73