CAPSICINE—CAPSULES. 394 Prep, (Miller.) Castor oil is saponified by means of potassa or soda, and afterwards an excess of the hydrated alkali is added, amount- ing to one half the oil nsed. The mass is heated in a retort, and an oily liquid covered with water distils over. This oily liquid, which is the octtlic alcohol, is rectified several times with potassa until the residue is no longer coloured brown. Prop. A colour- less liquid, of powerful aromatic odour; in- soluble in water, but dissolving readily in acetic acid, ether, and alcohol. Its boiling point is 356° Fahr., its sp. gr. *823. The caprylate OF ETHTLE, erroneously termed capetlic ETHEE, is a colourless liquid, with an agreeable odour of pineapples. CAP'SICINE. Syn. Capsici'na. The active principle of capsicum (see below). It is usually described as an oily liquid, but from the researches of H. B. Taylor, of Philadelphia, it appears that the true capsicine is a crystal- line principle. Forchhammer agrees with Taylor in regarding it as a solid substance. We give forms for both bodies, the crystalline and the liquid. Crystalline Capsicine. Prep. (H. B.Taylor.) Powdered capsicum is treated with anhydrous ether and evaporated; the oleo-resinous pro- duct is digested in alcohol of sp. gr. *809, and the solution, after filtering, is treated with sub-acetate of lead, which throws down a copious precipitate; this is separated by filtra- tion, and the clear tincture treated with sul- phuretted hydrogen, which throws down sul- phuret of lead; this being removed by a second filtration, the solution is boiled again, filtered, evaporated, and set aside, where it is exposed to great cold to crystallize. Prop., ^c. The capsicine, as thus prepared, is in tufts of feathery crystals, nearly w'hite, ■which melt when first heated, and then take fire, burning with a bright rose-coloured flame, and giving off dense, suffocating fumes. The taste is excessively fiery; the odour faint. If the lips or tongue be touched with capsicine violent inflammation results. Liq'uid Capsicine. Syn. O'leo-ees'in of CAPSICUM. Prep. A strong alcoholic tincture of capsicum is gently evaporated to the con- sistence of a soft extract, the residuum digested in ether, and the ethereal solution evaporated. Prop., Sfc. A volatile reddish-coloured liquid; very soluble in alcohol, ether, oil of turpentine, and caustic alkaline lyes; slightly soluble in \vater, and a little more so in vinegar and acetic acid. It is intensely pungent. The ^th of a gr. placed on the tongue en- dangers life from suffocation. ^ gr. volatilized by heat in a large room, will cause all its in- mates to cough and sneeze violently. CAP'SICUM. [L, and Eng.] Syn. ChilT, Red peppee. A gen. of plants belonging to the natural order Solanacece, species of which yield the fruits w^hich are used to form Cayenne pepper and Chili vinegar. The offici. nal capsicum of Fh. L. E. & D. is the fruit of the species C. annuum or C. fastigiatum. See Peppers, Tinctures, Vinegars. ■ ® CAP'SULES. This term is now commonly ' applied to small egg-shaped or spherical vessels, in which medicines are placed, for the purpose I “ of covering their nauseous taste, at tlie time I ^ of swallowing them. They are commonly : ^ made of gelatine, mixtures of sugar and '*■ gelatine, or animal membrane. Gel'atine Capsules. Prep. 1. By dipping the , bulbous extremity of an oiled metallic rod into , * a strong solution of gelatine. When the rod i ^ is withdrawn, it is rotated, in order to diffuse the fluid jelly equally over its surface. As “ soon as the gelatinous film has partially hard- (' ened, it is removed from the mould and placed on pins, furnished with suitable heads, and ‘‘ fixed on a cork table. When sufficiently dry, the capsules are placed upright in little cells, made in the table to receive them, and the i " liquid with which they are to be filled, is then ' •> introduced by means of a small glass tube. " They are next closed by dropping some of the ^ melted gelatine on the orifice of each. Six parts of gelatine, and one part of sugar, are * now the common proportions. ' 2. (Simonin.) Oval balls of wax, of the ^ requisite size, are prepared by pouring wax ® into a wooden mould, consisting of two parts, and arranged for the reception of a row of ' these balls. These are afterw^ards stuck on ' iron needles, affixed to rods of convenient size, ^ in rows. The balls are now uniformly coated ^ all at once by dipping in the usual manner, 1 then removed from the needles, and are next placed with the needle holes downw'ards, on a I gently heated plate, when the wax flows out, 1 and a round capsule is left behind. ; 1 Gel'atine and Su'gar Capsules. Prep. (Gi- t raud.) 6 parts; solution of gum simple sprup, of each, 1 part; water, 5 parts; J melt in a water bath, remove the scum, and ( proceed as before. * Glut'en Capsules. These, which form the ‘ 2 subject of a French patent, are said to be : ® formed of the gluten of wheat flour, a sub- ; ' stance which is insoluble, although softened, ; t by water. We have placed these capsules for c twenty-four hours in warm water, and found I them at the expiration of that time still un- broken, the enclosed medicine being completely ® enveloped. The mode of preparation is kept t secret. t Mem'branous Capsules. Syn. OrganTc cap- » SULES. From gut-skin moistened and stretched t over an oiled bulb of glass or metal, and filled jt in the common way. These have been pa- tented, but they do not appear to be an im- provement on the common capsule of gelatine. Obs. The common capsules usually hold about 10 or 12 grs. of balsam of copaiba. Those of the shops, in nine cases out of ten, arc filled with adulterated copaiba, and at least 4-5ths of them are filled -with train oil or lin- seed oil, to which a few'^ drops only of the balsam are added.