972 OILS (VOLATILE). MI, HOPS, JUNIPEE, PMONS, OEANGE PEEL, PEP- PEE, the GEASS OIL c f India, the laueel oil of Guiana, and some others, belong to this class. 2. Oils containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen (oxygenated oils), including most of those used in medicine and perfumery. These, as a class, are more soluble in rectified spirit and in water than those containing car- bon and hydrogen only. To this class belong the OILS OP ALMONDS, ANISEED, CASSIA, CEDAE- WOOD, CINNAMON, CUMIN, JASMIN, LA VENDEE, MEADOW-SWEET {Spiraea ulmaria), oeange ELOWEES, PENNYEOYAL, PEPPEEMINT, SPEAE- MINT, EOSEMAEY, EOSE-PETALS, VALEEIAN, WINTEE GEEEN {Gaultheria procumbens), and others too numerous to mention. A few of these oxygenated oils contain nitrogen. 3. Oils containing sulphur (sulphueetted oils). These are characterised by their ex- treme pungency, suffocating odour, vesicating power, property of blacking silver, and being decomposed by contact with most other me- tallic bodies. The oils of asafcetida, black MUSTAED SEED, GAELIC, HOESE-EADISH, and ONIONS, are of this kind. Some sulphuretted oils contain nitrogen. Prep. The volatile oils are generally pro- cured by distilling the odoriferous substances along with water; but in a few instances they are obtained by expression, and still more rarely by the action of alcohol. According to the common method of pro- ceeding, substances which part freely with their oil are put into the still along with about an equal weight of water, and are at once submitted to distillation. Those sub- stances which give out their oil with difficulty are first soaked for 24 hours, or longer, in about twice their weight of water, to each gallon of which 1 lb. of common salt has been added, in order to raise its boiling-point. The distillation is conducted as quickly as possible, and, when one half the water has come over, it is returned into the still, and this cohoba- tion is repeated, when necessary, until the dis- tilled water ceases to he mixed with oil. The heat of steam or a salt-water bath should be preferably employed. When a naked fire is used, the still should be deep and narrow, by which means the bottom will be better pro- tected by the gradually decreasing quantity of water towards the end of the process, and empyreuma prevented. When the distilled water is to he repeatedly cohohated on the in- gredients, a convenient and economical plan is to so arrange the apparatus that, after the water has separated from the oil in the re- ceiver, it shall flow hack again into the still. An ordinary worm-tub, or other like condens- ing apparatus, may be employed; but in the case of those oils which readily solidify, the temperature of the water in the condenser must not fall below about 55° Fahr. The mixed vapours which pass over condense and fall as a milky looking liquid into the re- ceiver. This separates after a time into two portions, one of which is a solution of a part of the newly eliminated oil in water, and the other is the oil itself. The latter either occu- pip the upper or the lov/er portion of the re- ceiver, according as its specific gravity is less or greater than that of distilled water. The separation of the oil and water is effected by allowing the mixed liquids to drop into a ‘ Florentine receiver* (see engr.) when the oil is the lighter of the two, by which means the latter accumulates at a, and the water flows over by the spout b. The same receiver may he employed for oils heavier than water, by reversing the ar- rangement; hut a glass ^ separator* {see engr.) is, in general, found more convenient. In this j case the oil accumulates at the bottom of the | vessel, and may he drawn off by the stop-cock ^ provided for the purpose. The ESSENTIAL OILS OE LEMONS and OEANGES of commerce, and of some other fruits, are chiefly obtained by submitting the yellow rind to powerful pressure; but in this way they are not so white, nor do they keep so well, as when distilled, although in the case of the fruits referred to the oils are more fragrant than when prepared by any other method. The London College excluded the usual di- rections for the preparation of the essential oils from their Pharmacopoeia of 1851, on the ground that these substances are seldom pre- pared by the druggist or apothecary, or at all on the small scale. “ The fruit of anise, caraway, and juniper, the flowers of chamomile, lavender, and elder, i] j the berries of allspice, the tops of rosemary, and the entire recent plants of the other herbs.