CINCHO-TANNIC ACID—CINNAMOLE. 453 right-handed rotary polarization; — 4. By evolving white fumes, when fused, which con- dense on cold substances in the form of a loose sublimate, which, when viewed by a lens, is I found to consist of small, brilliant, needle-like 'crystals;—5. By evolving an aromatic odour during its sublimation, which is peculiar and I characteristic. Cinchonine is distinguished from guinidine :hy its solution in chlorine water giving a I white precipitate with ammonia. Cinchonine forms salts with the acids, all of which may be made in the same manner as the corresponding salts of quinine. The neutral sulphate, bisulphate, disulphate, hydrochlorate, nitrate, iodide, iodate, &c., have been formed and examined. Those of commerce are usually obtained from the mother-waters of the sul- phate of quinine manufacturers. On the small scale, the alkaloid may be at once dissolved in the dilute acid. They are all exceedingly bitter. Obs. In medicine, the preparations of cin- chonine are nearly superseded by those of quinine, and are seldom inquired for in trade. I j The SULPHATE OF CINCHONINE is Considered ' I by Pereira and others to be equal in medicinal I activity to the sulphate of quinine. It i may be given in the same doses to produce the i same effects, and will form a valuable substi- j tute in case of a failure of yellow bark. There i is, however, a strong prejudice among medical ■ men in favour of the quinine salts. Mueiate i OF CINCHONINE has lately been used rather I extensively, and specimens shown by the Howards attracted considerable attention at I the late International Exhibition. See Qui- I NINE, QuINOMETEY, &C. CINCHO-TAN'HIC ACID. The soluble, red colouring matter of cinchona bark. It differs • from ordinary tannic acid in its greater solu- 11 bility, and in striking a green colour with the TI sesquioxide of iron. ? j CINCHO'VATINE. Syn. Cincho'yine. From ijcMsco barh or ash cinchona. It is identical 11 with AEICINE (which see). 11 CTNINE. See Santonine. I J, CINNABAIl'. The native red sulphuret t) of mercury. Facti"tious cinnabae' is ver- I milion. ‘ CINNAMETNE. Sgn. Oil of . balsam of uPeeu. Prep. 1. KUd. 2LXi alcoholic solution of j balsam of Peru to a like solution of potassa. IA compound of resin and potassa is precipi- I tated, and cinnamate of potassa and cinnameine . are left in solution. On adding water, the I latter separates and floats upon the surface. I 2. Add balsam of Peru, 2 parts; to liquor ff potassa (sp. gr. 1-300), 3 parts; both by (; volume; apply a gentle heat, when a yellowish- ii brown oil will separate and float above a heavy, ,|j black liquid, containing the potassa. The J former must be collected and purified by cautious distillation. Prop., ^c. A reddish-brown, acrid, odour- |l less, oily fluid; heavier than water; soluble ij HI alcohol and ether ; insoluble in water. By exposure to air, it combines with the elements of water and forms a soft resin (eesTn of BALSAM OF PeEU ; STYEA'CINE ; HYDEATE OF cinname'ine). By distillation with hydrate of potassa, both the above substances are con- verted into CINNAMIC ACID and a neutral substance, which also assumes two forms (PEEU'YINE and sty'eone). CINNAMIC ACID. Syn. CinnamonTc ACID. A substance discovered by Dumas and Peligot in oil of cinnamon. It crystallizes out of the oil when long exposed to the atmo- sphere. By exposing the oil in a jar of oxygen gas, it is rapidly converted into a white, crys- talline mass of hydrated cinnamic acid. It is found in Peruvian and Tolu balsams, asso- ciated with henzoic acid and certain oily and resinous substances. It is best procured by the first of the following processes:— Prep. 1. Old, hard Tolu balsam is reduced to powder, and intimately mixed with an equal weight of hydrate of lime; the mixture is boiled for some time in a large quantity of water, and filtered hot. On cooling, ‘ cinna- mate of lime/ crystallizes out, while ‘ benzoate of lime’ remains in solution. The impure salt is redissolved in boiling water, digested with animal charcoal, and after filtration suffered to crystallize. The crystals are drained and pressed, once more dissolved in boiling water, and an excess of hydrochloric acid being added, the whole is allowed to cool; puee cinnamic ACID separates in small plates or needles of perfect whiteness. From the original mother- liquor much benzoic acid can be procured. 2. Dissolve oil of balsam of Peru in potassa water, evaporate to dryness, dissolve the re- siduum in boiling water, and add an excess of hydrochloric acid. The cinnamic acid is de- posited in crystals as the solution cools, and may be purified by resolution and crystalliza- tion. 3. By cautiously distilling balsam of Tolu by a gentle heat. It first fuses, and a little water and volatile oil come over, followed by cinnamic acid, in the form of a heavy oil, which condenses on the cooler parts of the neck of the retort, as a white, crystalline mass. Towards the end of the process some empyreumatic oil distils over. The acid is purified by pressure between the folds of fil- tering paper and solution in boiling water. On cooling, minute, colourless crystals of cin- namic acid are deposited. Pure balsam of Tolu yields about ^th of its weight of this acid. Prop., <^c. Colourless, transparent scales, or prisms; scarcely soluble in water; freely so in alcohol; fuses at 248°; volatilizes un- changed at 560° Falir. Distilled with a strong solution of bichromate of potash and oil of vitriol, it is converted into benzoic acid. It forms salts with the bases, called cinnamates or cinnamonates, which greatly resemble the corresponding benzoates. CIN'NAMOLE. Syn, Sty'kol. An oily