sulphovinic acid. It is decomposed by heat. 1 See faye 187. ETHERIFICATION—ETHIOPS, 699 f sulphuric ether (sulphate op oxide of ETHYL) just referred to. It is a very unstable compound, and cannot be distilled without suffering decomposition. I Sulphu'rous Ether. Syn. Sulphite op oxide I of ethyl ; tEthee sulphueosus, L. Prep. From subchloride of sulphur, by treating it with anhydrous alcohol, in excess ; a limpid, I fetid liquid distils over, which is the ethee. It is slowly decomposed by water, and boils at about 338° Fahr. Sp. gr. 1‘085. Vale"ric Ether. Syn. Valeeianic ethee ; 11 VaLEEATE op oxide of ethyl ; iETHEE VA- t LEEIANICUS, L. Prep. By passing dry hydro- £ chloric acid gas into an alcoholic solution of I valeric acid. It is a fragrant, volatile li- I quid, lighter than water, having a high boil- 1, ing-point, and a rich fruity odour, said to \ closely resemble that of butyeic ethee I or pine-apple oil. It is used to flavour li- >•. queurs, &c. V Washed Ether. Syn. ^Ethee lotus, L. I Ordinary ether, agitated first with 2 or 3 r times its volume of distilled water, and a few ! grains of carbonate of potassa, or a few drops « of milk of lime ; and after decantation, again t‘ agitated with a like quantity of water only, t Used for inhalations. For other purposes the washed ether is afterwards digested on ■* chloride of calcium, to deprive it of retained i water. f ETHERIFICATION. The act or operation \ of etherifying or making ether. See Ethee. I E'THERIN. Syn. Camphoe op oil op > wine, a volatile, white, crystalline substance, deposited by light oil of wine when left in a cold situation for some time. It is isomeric with ETHEEOLE, and received its name from the assumption of its being the base of the j ethereal compounds. According to this hypo- ' 1 thesis, ether is a hydeate op etheein. * Etherin forms brilliant prisms and plates; is tasteless; soluble in alcohol and ether; fuses I at 230° Fahr.; and boils at 500° Fahr.; and is a little lighter than water. The crystals are purified by pressure between the folds of bibidous paper, solution in ether, and evapora- tion. E'THEROLE. The yellowish, oily liquid, forming the residual portion of light oil of wine, after it has deposited its etheein. It is lighter than water; is freely soluble in both alcohol and ether; and has a rather high boiling-point. See Etheein and Oil of Wine. ETHIONTC AC'ID. Prep. An alcoholic so- lution of the crystals of sulphate of carbyle is diluted with water, the whole neutralized with carbonate of baryta, the filtered liquid evapo- rated by a very gentle heat to a small bulk, and a largo quantity of alcohol added; the precipitate (ethionate op baeyta) is treated (cautiously) Avith dilute sulphuric acid (avoiding excess), by which the baryta is withdrawn, and etuionic acid left in solution. Prop., &^'c. Ethionic acid closely resembles Its salts (ethionates), however, differ com- pletely from the sulphovinates. They are all soluble in water, and are said to be anhydrous. The ethionates of ammonia, potassa, and soda, crystallize readily; those of lead, baryta, lime, and the other earths, are uncrystallizable. See ISETHIONIC Acid, and below. ETHION'IC ANHY'DRIDE. Prep. Pweand dry olefiant gas is passed over anhydrous sul- phuric acid (‘sulphuric anhydride^) contained in a U-shaped tube. Prop., 8fc. When thus produced, it is in white, milky crystals, which speedily deliquesce in the air, giving rise to ethionic acid. It is similar in appearance, and probably iden- tical with, ‘ SULPHATE OP CAEBYLE,’ which results from the absorption of the vapour of anhydrous sulphuric acid by absolute alcohol. E'THIOPS. Syn. ACthiops, L. A name given by the older chemists to several black powders, on account of their colour, and still occasionally employed in medical works. Absorb'ent Ethiops. Syn. Ai^thiops ab- SOEBENS, L. The ‘ mercury with chalk’ (hy- DEAEGYEUM CUM Ceeta) of modern pharmacy. An'imal Ethiops. Syn. iETHiOPS animalis, L. The calcined bodies of various animals, as the bat, hedgehog, mole, sparrow, &c., reduced to powder. Antimo"nial Ethiops. Syn. iETHiops an- TiMONiALis, L. Formulae for this compound have been given under Antimony.^ A few special receipts may be added here:— Prep. 1. (James’s Dispensatory, 1764.) Black antimony (‘ tersulphuret of antimony ’) and sea salt, equal parts, fused togethei’, and the pro- duct triturated with an equal weight of quick- silver, until the globules are perfectly extin- guished. 2. (Ph. Bor.) From the blacJc sulphurets of antimony and mercury, equal parts, triturated together. 3. (Ph. Lusitan.) Oxysulphuret of antimony, 3 parts; quicksilver, 2 parts. 4. (Dr. Plummer’s—P.’s alteeative pow- DEE; .Ethiops Plummeei, L.) Golden sul- phuret of antimony (‘oxysulphuret’) and calo- mel, equal parts. This preparation appears to have been unjustly neglected in modern prac- tice. See Antimony. Gold'en Ethiops. Syn. ^Ethiops aueipig- MENTALis, L. From red sulphurets of arsenic and mercury, triturated together. Very poi- sonous. Graphi'tic Ethiops. Sxjn. Ethiops of plum- bago ; A^thiops geaphiticus, L. From plumbago, 2 parts; quicksilver, 1 part; tri- turated together until the globules disappear. Dose. 5 to 10 gr.; in herpes, and some other obstinate skin diseases. MaP'tial Ethiops. Syn. A^thiops mae- TiALis, Ai. chalybeatus, L. Black oxide of iron, prepared by keeping iron filings under water, and occasionally shaking them. It is washed with water, elided as quickly as pos-