j powder, and triturated to a paste with a little v| water. Used with types or stencil-plates; ! the part, when dry, being well rinsed in water. I Brown. I 12. Black oxide of manganese and hydrate I of potassa are mixed, heated to redness in a crucible, and then triturated with an equal I weight of pure white clay, and water, q. s. to I give it due consistence. Used like the last, j (Brown.) i Ohs. The products of the first two of the ! above formulae constitute the marking ink of the shops. They have, however, no claim to the title of ^ indelible ink,’ “ which no art can extract without injuring the fabric ”—as I is generally represented. On the contrary, I they may be discharged with almost as much facility as common iron-moulds. This may be easily and cheaply effected by means of ammonia, cyanide of potassium, the chlorides ' of lime and soda, and some of the hyposul- phites, without in the least injuring the tex- ture of the fabric to which they may be applied. The only precaution required is that of rinsing the part in clean water imme- diately after the operation. The ^marking ink without preparation ’ is more easily extracted than that ‘ with preparation.^ The former has also the disadvantage of not keeping so well ' as the latter, and of depositing a portion of fulminating silver, under some circumstances, which renders its use dangerous. The thinner inks, when intended to be used with type or plates, are thickened by adding a little more gum, or some sugar. i Mar'king Ink. Syn. Packee’s ink. Ink I bottoms. Used by packers for marking bales, I boxes, &c. ! Perpetual Ink. Brep. 1. Pitch, 3 lb.; j melt over the fire, and add of lampblack, f lb. ; mix well. 2. Trinidad asphaltum and oil of turpentine, equal parts. Used in a melted state to fill in the letters on tombstones, marbles, &c. With- out actual violence, it will endure as long as the stone itself. Printer’s Ink. See Feinting Ink. Pur'ple Ink. A strong decoction of logwood, to which a little alum or chloride of tin has I been added. i Red Ink. Prep. 1. Brazil wood (ground), 4 I oz.; white-wine vinegar (hot), I5 pint; digest in I glass or a w^ell-tinned copper or enamel sauce- I ])an, until the next day, then gently simmer for half an hour,- adding towards the end gum I arahic and alum, of each, ^ oz. 1 2. Ground Brazil wood, 10 oz.; white t vinegar, 10 pints; macerate for 4 or 5 days; i then boil as before to one half, and add of I roach alum, 4^ oz.; gum, 5 oz.; and when dissolved, bottle for use. I 3. As the last, but using water or beer I instead of vinegar. ! 4. Cochineal (in powder), 1 oz.; hot water, ; i pint; digest, and when quite cold, add of i spirit of hartshorn, ^ pint (or liquor of am- monia, 1 oz., diluted with 3 or 4 oz. of water); macerate for a few days longer, and then decant the clear. Very fine. 5. (Buchner.) Pure carmine, 20 gr.; liquor of ammonia, 3 fi. oz.; dissolve, then add of powdered gum, 18 gr. Half a drachm of pow- dered drop lake may be substituted for the carmine where expense is an object. Colour superb. 6. (Henzeler.) Brazil wood, 2 oz.; alum and cream of tartar, of each, I oz.; rain water, 16 fl. oz.; boil to one half, strain, add of gum (dissolved), ^ oz.; and when cold, further add a tincture made by digesting powdered cochi- neal, 1^ dr., in rectified spirit, 1^ fi. oz. 7. (Redwood.) Guarancine and liquor of ammonia, of each, 1 oz. ; distilled water (cold), 1 pint; triturate together in a mortar, filter, and dissolve in the solution, gum arabic, i oz. Se'pia Ink. See Sepia. Sil'ver Ink. Prom silver leaf or powdered silver, as gold ink. Sympathetic Ink. Sxjn. Diplomatic ink. Invisible i. Fluids which, when used for writing, remain invisible until the paper is heated, or aeted on by some other chemical agent. Sympathetic inks have been frequently employed as the instruments of secret corre- spondence, and have often escaped detection; but by heating the paper before the fire until it begins to grow discoloured by the heat, the whole of them may be rendered visible. The following are the most common and amusing sympathetic inks:—1. Sulphate of copper and sal ammoniac, equal parts, dissolved in water ; writes colourless, but turns yellow when heated.—2. Onion juice; like the last. —3. A weak infusion of galls; turns black when moistened with weak copperas water.— 4. A weak solution of sulphate of iron ; turns BLDE when moistened with a weak solution of prussiate of potassa, and black when moist- ened with infusion of galls.—5. The diluted solutions of nitrate of silver and of terchloride of gold; become respectively daek beown and PiJEPLE when exposed to the sunlight.— 6. Aqua fortis, spirits of salts, oil of vitriol, common salt, or saltpetre, dissolved in a large quantity of water; turns yellow or beown when heated.—7. Solution of chloride ovnitro- muriate of cobalt; turns geeen when heated, and disappears again on cooling. If the salt is pure, the marks turn blue.—8. Solution of acetate of cobalt, to w^hich a little nitre has been added; becomes eose coloueed when heated, and disappears on cooling.—9. A weak solution of the mixed chlorides of cobalt and nickel; turns geeen. The last three are about the best of our sympathetic inks.—10. Solution of acetate of lead; turns beownish- BLACK when exposed to the fumes of sul- phuretted hydrogen.—11. A weak solution of nitrate of mercury; turned black by heat and siilphuretted fumes.—12. Rice water or decoction of starch; turned blue by a solu- tion of iodine in weak spirit, and by the fumes