698 GLASS. late the proportions and firing by experience only, rather than by theory and practice com- bined. Now, although the chemist has much yet to learn on the precise constitution of the glasses, and although theory may not be able to ensure unvarying success, it is nevertheless certain that, in all cases, it can afford much valuable assistance in that direction. Indeed, it has been asserted by one of the leading Continental chemists, that ingredients that will yield the proper equivalent proportions in the melting pot cannot produce a bad glass, if exposed to such a temperature as to permit of perfect combination taking place. It is found that those glasses which contain a predominance of alkali are acted on by water, and when this is in great excess they are perfectly soluble in that fluid. Ordinary flint glass is affected by long coction in water, whilst crown glass, which contains less alkali, is un- altered by that trial. Glass which contains any considerable quantity of lead is acted on by sulphuretted hydrogen. This is the cause of the surface of flint glass, under certain cir- cumstances, becoming opaque and iridescent. Glasses made of silica and alkali alone are incapable of permanently resisting the action of water. The addition of lime or oxide of lead appears to be necessary to give them this quality. Glasses that have a slight greenish or bluish tint may be often whitened, or ren- dered colourless, by exposure to light and air. This arises from the peroxidation of the iron, to whose protoxide they owe their tint. Other glasses become purpled by exposure, owing to the peroxidation of the manganese. Different colours are communicated to glass by the addition of metallic oxides. Thus, oxide of manganese gives an amethyst ; oxide of cohalt, a blue; oxide of iron, a BEOWN; blacTc oxide of copper, a green ; oxide of gold, a purple ; suboxide of copper, a RUBY-RED; oxide of tin, a white ; oxide of silver, a yellow, &c. These substances are either added to the melted contents of the glass-pot, as in preparing artificial gems, &c., or they are applied in a thin layer to the surface of the object, which is then heated until fusion of the coloured compound occurs, as in enamelling and painting on glass. Glass is FORMED or fashioned into articles by the processes of blowing, casting, drawing, rolling, or spreading. In the process of BLOWING GLASS the workman begins by col- lecting a proper quantity of glass in a soft, pasty state, at the end of his blowpipe (an iron tube, five or six feet in length, terminated by a mouth-piece of wood), which he then commences blowing through, by which the lump is expanded into a kind of flask, sus- ceptible of having its form modified by the position in which it is held, and the velocity of rotation continually given to the iron tube. If an open-mouthed vessel is to be made, an iron rod, called a ‘ pontil’ or ‘puntil,’ is dipped into the glass-pot and applied to the bottom of the flask, to which it thus serves as a handle, the blowpipe being removed by the application of a cold iron to the neck. The vessel is now re-heated, and the aperture en- larged, and the vessel otherwise altered in figure by the aid of a few simple tools until completed. It is then detached, and carried to the ‘annealing oven,’ where it undergoes slow and gradual cooling during many hours. In this way bottles, flasks, carboys, and an almost infinite variety of other articles, are formed. The large circular tables of crown- glass are made by a joint process of blowing and SPREADING. The globular flask at first produced, transferred from the blowpipe to the ‘ pontil,^ is suddenly made to assume the form of a flat disc by the centrifugal force of the rapid rotatory movement given to the rod. Spread or broad glass is formed into sheets in a nearly similar manner. Plate- glass is cast upon a flat metal table, and, after very careful annealing, is ground and polished by suitable machinery. Tubes are made by rapidly drawing out a hollow cylinder; and from these a great variety of useful small apparatus are constructed with the help of a lamp and blowpipe, or, still better, the bellows- table of the barometer-maker. Glass beads are made from small tubes chopped into pieces of suitable lengths, which are stirred first in a mixture of sand and wood-ashes, in the cold, and afterwards in an iron pan over the fire until they assume a rounded form. Small tubes are bent in the flame of a spirit lamp or gas-jet, and cut by a file, a scratch being made, and the two portions pulled or broken asunder in a way easily learned by a few trials. Large tubes require the heat of a powerful blowpipe and lamp, or that of a furnace. The following hints respecting the manage- ment OF GLASS may prove useful to the inex- perienced : — Annealing. The process of annealing glass has been briefly referred to before.^ The extreme brittleness of imperfectly annealed wrought glass may generally be remedied on the small scale by immersing the articles in a bath of oil, or a concentrated solution of chloride of calcium, or common salt, and heating the whole gradually and cautiously to the boiling- point, and letting it again cool—the slower the better. By this treatment the glass will be enabled to bear any alternations of tem- perature between the two extremes to which it has been exposed. Blowing. By the ingenious art of ‘ glass- blowing ’ and ‘ GLASS-DRAWING,’ as practised on the small scale, with a blowpipe lamp fur- nace, a variety of articles of ornament and utility may be made, their number being limited only by the ingenuity of the artist. The details of the various operations are, however, too lengthy to describe here.^ 1 See page 2 See Greville Williams’s “ Chemical Manipulation.”