ARSENIOUS ACID. 222 an hour;i when the end of the conducting tube, after being well rinsed in the liquid, is removed, and the glass, lightly covered with a piece of porous paper, set aside in a tempera- ture of about 100° Fahr., until the odour of sulphuretted hydrogen is completely lost. The ‘ precipitate ’ is now collected on a small filter, washed with pure water, and dried by a gentle heat. It is then placed in a watch-glass or small capsule, and redissolved in a little liquor of ammonia, which is then again expelled by heat; or it may he at once submitted to con- firmatory tests. It is shewn to contain arsenic by its ready and perfect solubility in liquor of ammonia, and in solutions of the pure alkalies, their carbonates and bicarbonates, and in alka- line sulphurets ; by being nearly insoluble in hydrochloric acid, even when concentrated and boiling; and by yielding a metallic mirror when mixed with a flux and submitted to the reduction-test (which see).—Susc. > rel. susc., The gr. of arsenic, or even less, may thus be easily detected. Sulphuretted-hydrogen water and hydrosul- phuret of ammonia act in a similar way to gaseous sulphuretted hydrogen j but much less effectively. Obs. For extreme accuracy, the sulphu- retted hydrogen should be ^ washed ^ by passing it through a small bottle containing a little pure water, or sulphuric acid, before allowing it to enter the arsenical liquor. The ‘re- duction’ of the newly-precipitated sulphuret is generally regarded as the most important part of the investigation, and requires great care and attention. An extremely elegant and sensitive method of effecting this, is by heating the mixture in a stream of dry carbonic acid gas. This method has been followed by Drs. Babo and Fresenius with the most satisfactory results, and is thus performed:—{A) is a ca- pacious flask for the evolution of carbonic acid, half filled with rather large pieces of solid limestone or marble (not chalk). To one aperture of the doubly-perforated cork, a funnel-tube (a) is adapted, which nearly reaches to the bottom of the vessel; to the other aperture a tube {b), by means of which the gas evolved is conducted into a flask of smaller size (B), in which it is washed and dried by concentrated sulphuric acid. The tube (c) conducts the carbonic acid into the reduction-tube (C), winch is shortened in the engr., and must be made of difiicultly-fusible glass. When the apparatus is prepared, the ‘ sulphuret of arsenic ’ intended for reduction is rubbed in a small basin, previously heated in a water-bath, with about twelve parts of a well-dried mixture consisting of 3 parts of dry carbonate of soda, and 1 part of cyanide of potassium (prepared by Liebig’s method). The ‘ mixed powder ’ is then placed on a small strip of card-paper beat into the shape of a gutter, which is next pushed into the reduction- tube up to the point i^f), and the tube is turned half round. In this manner the mix- ^ Some aulliorities say “for several hours.” tnre is deposited without soiling any other part of the tube; after which, the strip of card-paper is cautiously withdrawn. The ‘ reduction-tube ’ is then, by means of the cork (e), fixed in its place; a moderate stream of carbonic acid gas is evolved by pouring hydrochloric acid into the funnel-tube (a), and the ‘ mixture ’ carefully dried, by very mode- rately heating the tube along its whole length, by means of a small spirit-lamp. When the gas-stream has become so slow that the bubbles pass through the sulphuric acid at i intervals of about a second, the spot (A:) is heated to redness by means of a spirit- | lamp. When this point is attained, another ^ strong spirit-flame is applied to the mix- ture, progressing from (rf) to (/), until all || the arsenic is reduced and volatilised (the g first flame at the same time continuing in action at k). The reduced arsenic recondenscs at the spot