PERCUSSION-PERIODIC ACID. 1052 quickly, but without exerting its proper sol- vent action; when ^oo great pressure is em- ployed, percolation either progresses very slowly or not at all. On the whole, the firm- ness of the packing should be inversely as the solvent and softening power of the menstruum upon the solids exposed to its action; but to this rule there are many exceptions, and each substance may be said to require special treat- ment. An excellent plan, applicable to all substances, and especially to those of a glu- tinous or mucilaginous nature, is to mix the powder with an equal hulk of well-washed siliceous sand before rubbing it up with the menstruum. In reference to the coarseness of the powder, it must be observed that sub- stances which readily become soft and pappy when wetted by the menstruum, should not be used so fine as those that are more woody and fibrous, and not of a glutinous or resinous nature. The ‘method of displacement’ has the ad- vantage of expedition, economy, and yielding products possessing considerable uniformity of strength; but the difiiculties attending its application by the inexperienced are serious obstacles to its general adoption in the labora- tory. It answers admirably for the prepara- tion of all TiNCTUEES that are not of a resinous nature, and for most infusions of woody and fibrous substances, as roots, woods, barks, leaves, seeds, insects, &c., and particularly when cold or tepid water is taken as the sol- vent. It is also especially adapted for the preparation of concenteated infusions and ESSENCES, as they may thus be obtained of any required strength without loss, or re- quiring concentration by heat, which is so destructive to their virtues. “ When (ordinary) tinctures are made in large quantities, displacement is never likely to supersede maceration, on account of any prac- tical advantages it may possess. If the pre- scribed directions be duly attended to, the process of maceration is unexceptionable. The process is more simple than the other; the mode of operating is more uniform, it is, in fact, always the same; it requires less of skill and dexterity in conducting it; it re- quires less constant attention during its pro- gress, which, in operating on large quantities, is a consideration; and, finally, the apparatus required is less complicated. When, how^ever, only small quantities of tincture are made at a time, and kept in stock, the adoption of the process of displacement will often be found con- venient and advantageous. It offers the means of making a tincture in two or three hours, which, by the other process, would require as many weeks.” (Mohr and Redwood.) Another useful application of the method of displacement is to the manufacture of extracts on the large scale. Here it is superior to any other plan. By the simple and inexpensive forms of apparatus in block-tin, stoneware, or glass, which have recently been designed for the purpose, not merely a first-class product is ensured, but a great saving in fuel an labour is at the same time effected. St; Beewing, Exteact, Tinctuee, &c. PERCUS'SION. Syn. Peecussio, L. I medicine, the act of striking any part of tl body wdth the fingers, or any instrument, t ascertain its condition. See Auscultation. PERCUS'SION CAPS. The composition eu ployed to prime these articles is noticed imd( Fulminating Meecuey (page 671). PERTECT LOVE. See Liqueue (Parfa Amour). PER'FUME. A substance that emits < casts otf volatile particles which, when di fused through the atmosphere, agreeably affec, the organs of smelling. The term is als' applied to the volatile effluvia so perceive*■ The principal source of perfumes is the Veg table Kingdom. Its flowers, seeds, wood and barks, furnish a rich variety, from whic the most fastidious connoisseur may select h favourite bouquet. A few perfumes, as MUS], AMBEEGEis, and civet, are derived from tl Animal Kingdom; but none of these evoh an aroma comparable in freshness to that the EOSE, or in delicacy to that of the oeang. BLOSSOM, or even the unpretending jasmin The Inorganic Kingdom yields not a sing perfume, so called; nor has the science • chemistry yet been able to produce a sing odoriferous compound from matter absolute inorganic. PEE,FU''MERY. Perfumes in general; al the art of preparing them. In its commerci application, this word embraces not merely pe fumes, but also cosmetics, and other articles a closely allied character employed at tl. toilet, the manufacture and sale of which co:', stitute the trade of the modern perfunu Formuloe for the preparation of all the im valuable perfumes, as well as of others met wit in trade, both simple and compound, will li found under the heads Cosmetics, Depil TOET, Essence, Haie Dyes, Oils, Pasti Pastils, Pommade, Spieit, Watees, &c., which we refer the reader. Ace'tic Perfumes. See Vinegae. Ammo"niated Perfumes. These may be jy? pared by simply adding a sufficient quanti of liquor of ammonia to the liquid perfum' When the articles are to be distilled, a cheap plan is to add about 5 dr. of sal ammoniac ai 8 dr. of carbonate of potassa to each pint the article just before distillation. Ammo> ATED Cologne watee is now a fashional substitute for spieit of sal volatile. ^ PERTODTC ACID. A compound of iodi and oxygen (10;), discovered % Ammermull and Magnus. Prep. Pure caustic soda is added to a «o* tion of iodate of soda, and the mixture is sat rated with gaseous chlorine; the pulverule white salt which falls, either at once or aft concentration, is dissolved in dilute nitric ac and the solution precipitated with nitrate