I ALLANTOXICUM—ALLOXAN. loy I 1)y Vauquelin and Buniva in what they imagined to be the liquor amnii of the cow, and hence named by them, amniotic acid. It was afterwards shown by Dzondi and Lassaigne to I exist in the fluid of the allantois, and not of the amnios. It has since been produced arti- I flcially by Wohler and Liebig. ! Prep. i. The allantoic fluid of the foetal calf j is evaporated to l-4th or l-5th of its volume, " I and then set aside for some time. The crystals ! tlius obtained are purified by re-solution, j digestion with animal charcoal, and re-crystal- lisation. , 2. (Wohler and Liebig.) Uric acid, 1 part; I is dissolved in water, 20 parts; and freshly ; precipitated and well-washed binoxide of lead I is added to the solution until the colour ceases to change; the liquid is next filtered while i hot, evaporated until a pellicle forms on the j surface, and then set aside to crystallise •, the ! crystals being purified as before. Prop., 8fc. Small, hut very brilliant pris- I matic, transparent, colourless crystals; taste- j less; neutral; soluble in 160 parts of cold I water, and in much less at 212°; nitric acid ! converts it into allantueic acid; oil of j vitriol resolves it into ammonia, carbonic acid, 1 and carbonic oxide; hot concentrated solutions I of the caustic alkalies change it into ammonia I and oxalic acid. ALLANTOX'ICUM. [L.] Syn. Allanto- I TOx'iciJM, L. (prim., Gr.). The poison de- 1 veloped, during putrefaction, in sausages made I of blood, liver, &c. “ It often proves speedily ' fatal.” (Kraus.) A1LANTU"RIC acid (-ture'-). [allant (oine), uric acid.'] An unimportant azotised compound I discovered by Pelouze. Prep. Dissolve allantoine in nitric acid “ (sp. gr. 1*2 to 1-4), at a gentle heat; when the ! i solution has become quite cold, pour the liquor from the crystals (niteate of deea) : which are deposited, and gently evaporate it; j after drying the residuum at about 80° Fahr., ' treat it with weak water of ammonia, and add ! J alcohol; collect the white viscid matter thrown ! i down, redissolve it in water, and again pre- 5 ; (iipitate with alcohol; the last precipitate is i' the new acid. r- Prop., 8fc. Little is known respecting this '(• substance. Its title to the name of an acid, f or even of an independent substance, is ex- >1 1 tremely doubtful. See Ueic Acid. K ALLIA'CEOUS (-sh’us). Syn. Allia'ceds, '»■ L.; Alliace, Ailiace, Fr.; Knoblaijch- I AETio, &c., Ger. Garlick-like; an epithet 1? applied to substances having the odour or 1 properties of garlic or onions. J' i^iaceous Plants. Chives, garlic, leeks, n onions, rocambole, shallots, &c. ALLIGA'TION. Syn. Alliga'tio, L. In commercial arithmetic, a * rule' for ascertaining '« I the price or value of mixtures, and for deter- ic ' mining the proportions of the ingredients that p(f I must be taken to produce mixtures of any ! given price, value, or strength. The flrst is called ALLiaATiON ME'dial ; the second, alli- gation alteen'ate. Its principles and applications are explained under Mixtuees (Arithmetic of). AL'LIOLE. An extremely volatile hydro- carbon obtained by distilling crude naphtha, and collecting, in the flrst distillation, only that which passes over before the boiling point reaches 194° Fahr.; and on a second distilla- tion, only that below 176° F. The lust distiU late is purified by agitation with dilute sul- phuric or hydrochloric acid, and rectification at a temperature not higher than about 160° F. It possesses an alliaceous odour not unlike sulphide of carbon; and, when nearly free from benzole, boils at 140 to 155° F. ALLOP'ATHY. Syn. Allopa'thia, L. (from dWog, other, different, and rraBog, affection or disease, Gr.); AllopATHIE, Fr. In medicine, the method of curing disease by the use of remedies which tend to produce a condition of the system, either differing from, opposed to, or incompatible with the condition believed to be essential to the disease it is sought to cure. It is commonly employed to distinguish the ordinary system of medical practice from homoeopathy (which see). Hence (an) allop'- ATHiST, and the corresponding adjective ALLO- pathTc {allopath!icus, L.). ALLOPHANTC ACID. A substance disco- vered by Wohler and Liebig, and formed by passing the vapour of cyanic acid into alcohol. Its properties and uses are undetermined. ALLOT'ROPY. Syn. Allot'eopism ; Al- LOTEo'piA, Alloteopis'mds, L. Literally, a difference in character; another form of the same substance. In chemistry, a term invented, by Berzelius, to express the state or condition, or the change of character, assumed by certain substances at different temperatures, or under different treatment, whilst their nature and composition continue the same. It more par- ticularly relates to colour, hardness, solubility, texture, &c. Boron, carbon, silicon, iron, sulphur, and phosphorus, afford striking ex- amples of the changes here referred to. The term is also sometimes applied, though incor- rectly, to that modification of bodies, by which, on assuming a certain quantity of carbon and hydrogen, a new compound, analogous in properties to the first, is produced after every such addition. The corresponding adjective is ALLOTEOP'ic {allotrop'icus, L.). ALLOX'AN (or al'-). Syn. Allox'ane*; Allox'andm, L. ; Eeeth'eic Acid (?). A sub- stance formed by the action of nitric acid on uric acid. It was first noticed by Brugnatelli, and afterwards by Wohler and Liebig. Prep. Dry uric acid (about 1 part), is very gradually added, with constant agitation, to nitric acid, sp. gr. 1*45 (ab. 3 parts), contained in a shallow basin, or capsule, until crystals begin to form freely; care being taken that the temperature never rises to any considerable extent. The whole is then left to stand for some hours in a cool place, and the resulting