353 BRAZIL-WOOD—BREAD. Mock Brawn. Prep. (Mrs. Rundell.) Take the head and belly-piece of a young porker, well saltpetred; split the ‘head^ and boil it; take out the ‘bones’ and cut it to pieces; then take 4 ox-feet, boiled tender, and cut them in thin pieces; lay them in the ‘beUy-piece’ I with the ‘head’ cut small; roll it up tight with sheet tin, and boil it 4 or 5 hours. When it comes out set it up on one end, put a trencher on it (within the tin), press it down with a i heavy weight, and let it stand all night. The I next morning take it out of the ‘tin’ and bind it with a fillet, put it into cold salt-and-water, and it will be fit for use; it will keep a long time, if fresh ‘salt-and-water’ are put into it about once every four days.^ BRAZIL'-WOOD (-zele'-). Syn. Beazit/J; Lig'num beazilien'se, L. ; BoiS DE Beesil, i Fr. A dye-stuflT famished by several species of trees of the genus ccesalpin'ia, and much I used in dyeing various shades of eed. The usual practice is to boil it for some hours in hard spring-water, and to keep the resulting decoction for some time, or until it undergoes a species of fermentation; as it is thus found to yield more permanent and beautiful colours than when employed fresh. The following are examples of its application :— a. For Cotton :— 1. The ‘ goods’ are first boiled in a bath of sumach, next worked through a weak mordant of solution of tin, and then run through the Brazil-bath lukewarm. This gives a beight eed. 2. The ‘goods’ are ‘ alumed,’ rinsed, next ‘mordanted’ with solution of tin, rinsed again, and then turned through the Brazil dye-bath. This gives a eose-coloue. b. For Linen :—This, for the most part, is similar to that adopted for Cotton. \ c. For Silk :—The ‘ goods,’ after being ‘ alumed ’ in the same way as ‘ wool,’ but at a lower temperature, are rinsed, and passed through the Brazil-wood bath lukewarm. d. For Wool :—The ‘ goods’ are first steeped or boiled in a weak mordant of alum and tartar, for 1 hour, and then allowed to lie in the ‘cold liquor’ for 2 or 3 days, with frequent moving about; they are lastly boiled in the (Brazil-wood bath for about ^ an hour. Obs. The shades of colour given with Brazil- “ t wood may be modified by varying the strength y of the bath, the mordant, &c. The addition fc of a little alum turns it on the plteple. A f little alkali added to the bath, or passing the t- ‘goods,’ after being dyed, through water -1 holding a little alkali in solution, produces what » is called false ceimson. A deep ceimson is 11 obtained by adding a little logwood to the X i Brazil-wood bath. 1 lb. of Brazil-wood, ^ oz. , of alum, and 2 oz. of tartar, are sufficient to dye from 20 to 28 lb. of cotton, according to I the depth of shade required. See Dyeing, Red Dyes, &c. * BRAZI"LINE (-zele'-in). Syn. Beeze"line, I \ ^ "New System of Cookery Sapan'iNE. The colouring matter of Brazil- wood. It forms small orange-coloured needles, soluble in both water and alcohol. Alkalies turn it violet; acids, yellow. BRA"ZING. The operation of uniting pieces of copper, brass, iron, &c., by means of hard solder. Proc. The edges, after being filed or scraped quite clean, are covered with a mixture of hard solder and powdered borax, made into a paste wdth* water. The whole is then allowed to dry, and is afterwards exposed, in a clear fire, to a heat sufiicient to melt the solder. See Autogenous, Soldeeing, Soldees, &c. BREAD (bred). Syn. Pa'nis, L. ; Pain, Fr.; Beod, Ger.; Beood, Dut.; Beod, Dan., Swed.; Beeod, Sax. Loaves or cakes made from ground corn, and constituting the staple article of food of all civilised nations. This important article of food is made of the flour of different cereal grains, but only those that contain ‘ gluten’ admit of conversion into light or spongy bread. In this respect wheat- flour is superior to all others. When this flour is made into a paste or dough with water, and the dough, previous to baking, is left for some time in a moderately warm place, a state of fermentation comes on, owing to the sugar of the flour gradually undergoing the process of conversion into alcohol, in every respect similar to that which takes place during the fermentation of wine and beer. In this process a large quantity of ‘ carbonic acid gas’ is liberated, and the toughness of the dough preventing its escape, the whole mass becomes puffed up and spongy, and a light porous paste is formed, the porosity of which is still further increased by the heat of the oven. The natural process of fermenting the dough just described is, however, tedious and uncertain, whilst the dough has a tendency to run into the acetous fermentation, and to ac- quire a sour and disagreeable taste, by which it is rendered less nutritious and less easy of digestion. This has led to the use of a ‘fer- ment,’ which produces a similar condition more speedily, and with greater certainty. Leaven or dough was originally employed for this purpose, and the bread so made was hence called LEAVENED BEEAD. At the present time barm or yeast is almost universally used for this purpose. All that is essential to make a loaf of bread, is to add a proper quantity of yeast to the dough, and to allow it to remain for a short time in a warm place, and as soon as it rises or becomes spongy, to subject it to the process of baking. In preparing his dough, the modern baker takes a part of the water needed for the batch, and having rendered it tepid or lukewarm (80'’ to 90° Fahr.) by the addition of boiling water, dissolves his salt in it, and adds the yeast, together with a portion of the flour. With these he forms a ‘ thin dough,’ which he sets aside in a moderately warm place provided for the purpose, and technically called the ‘ knead- 23