CRYSTALLIZATION—CUBEBS. 493 the octahedron, all belong to the eegular SYSTEM, which is characterised by 3 equal {axes cutting one another at right angles. i'But in the cube each plane cuts 1 axis, and is jparallel to 2 axes; in the dodecahedron each f I plane cuts 2 axes, and is parallel to a third; jj while in the octahedron each plane cuts the 3 ({axes. The names and definitions of the six I crystalline systems are given below :— j r The 3 axes j 1. Regular system. < equal and rec- i [ tangular. 2. Square prismatic s. 1 2 equal axes. [ 3. Right prismatic s. I All unequal. i 4. Rhombohedral s. I ! 5. Oblique prismatic s. I 1 axis rectangular to 2, 6. Doubly o. p. s. i None rectangular. The 3 axes un- > equal and rec- tangular. f The 3 axes •< equal, but not |_ rectangular. The 3 axes not > equal, and not rectangular. i Refer to the treatises on mineralogy by Dana ' and Nichol, and to the chemical manuals of Fownes, Odling, and others, j CRTSTALLIZA'TIOK. The act or process by which crystals are formed. The frequent reference to this subject in the pages of this work, and the constant employment of the I process of crystallization in the manufacture I of salts, &c., in the laboratory, seem to point I out the necessity of a few explanatory remarks i thereon under this head. When fluid sub- I stances are suffered to pass with adequate I slowness to the solid state, or when solutions of solids are slowly concentrated by evaporation, or I the solvent powers of the menstruum, gradually lessened by cooling, the ultimate particles of Jiinatter frequently so arrange themselves as to j form regular geometrical bodies, familiarly j known by the name of crystals. This wonder- i ful property, which is possessed by a great variety of substances in the mineral kingdom, : and by nearly all saline bodies, is resorted to j for many useful and important purposes in I the chemical arts. It is by means of crystal- ! lization that the majority of salts are obtained in a state of purity; for in the act of passing I into the crystalline state, the foreign sub- j stances with which they are united are left I behind in the * mother-water.* : Salts are crystallized, either by allowing { their hot and saturated solutions to cool slowly, I or by simply evaporating the menstrua as long as crystals form. In the first case, the liquid I is commonly evaporated until a pellicle appears ; on the surface, when the vessel is set aside in j some sheltered situation until cold, at which j time the crystals are collected, and the process j repeated for fresh crystals. In the second I case, the crystals are usually removed from 1 tl>e liquid as soon as they are deposited. The t first method is adopted for those salts that I are considerably more soluble in hot than in cold water, as carbonate of soda, Epsom salts, &c.; the last method, for those that possess nearly equal solubility in both cases, and also for many salts which are not required in handsome crystals; thus common salt and chromate of potash are crystallized in this way. Many of the alkaloids, and their salts, are obtained in crystals, by allowing their so~ lutions (generally alcoholic or ethereal) to evaporate spontaneously. By repeating the processes of solution and crystallizat on two or three times with the same body, the crystals obtained by the last operation will usually be found to be quite pure. Many solids may be readily obtained in a crystalline state by melting them, and allowing them to cool very slowly. Thus, iodide oe SULPHUR is crystallized by melting it in a flask placed in a salt-water bath, and allowing it to remain in the water until the whole becomes cold. Sulphur and many metals are crystallized by pouring them, in a state of fusion, into a hot vessel, having a plug in the bottom, which is withdrawn as soon as the surface becomes cool, when the liquid portion runs out, and leaves the under surface in the form of a mass of agglomerated crystals. Perfectly pure wax, stearine, and "sper- maceti, have a very pleasing appearance when treated in this way. CRYSTALLOID. See Dialysis. CU'BEBINE. A peculiar substance obtained from cubebs. Prep. From cubebs (from which the oil has been expelled by distillation), by digestion in alcohol, evaporating the resulting tincture to one fourth, filtering, and then evaporating the remaining fluid almost to dryness. The resi- duum is left in a cold place until it assumes a semi-crystalline appearance, when it is thrown on a filter, and the fluid portion (the ‘cubebine’ of M. Cassola) allowed to drain off. In 24 hours, the substance left on the filter is dis- solved in 4 times its weight of boiling alcohol (sp. gr. *90), the solution allowed to deposit its uudissolved resin (still maintaining it near the boiling temperature), after which the clear portion is decanted. The crystals deposited as the liquid cools are cubebine. It is puri- fied by redissolving it in boiling concentrated alcohol, and the addition of a little boiling water and animal charcoal, when long, white needles will be deposited, if the solution is allowed to cool very slowly. Prop., <i(c. It is insoluble in water, and nearly so in cold alcohol, but very soluble in boiling alcohol. It strikes a fine crimson colour with sulphuric acid, which remains un- altered for some hours; a property which dis- tinguishes it from piperine. Its physio- logical action has been but little studied. According to Dr. Gorres, this for the most part resembles that of cubebs. CU'BEBS. Syn. Cubes pepper; Cubeba (Ph. L. D. k U. S.), Cubes.® (Ph. E.;, L. “ The immature and stalked fruit of Piper