306 BENZOINAMIDE—BENZOLE. tort, when oil of bitter-almonds has been dis- tilled with lime and oxide of iron, to free it from hydrocyanic acid. By dissolving out the ‘ lime ^ and the ‘ oxide of iron ’ with hydro- chloric acid, and boiling the ‘ residuum ^ in alcohol, a solution of benzoine is obtained, which yields crystals on cooling. 2. Equal volumes of the raw oil of bitter- almonds and a solution of potassa in alcohol are thoroughly mixed together, and allowed to re- pose for a short time. As soon as the liquid becomes full of crystals, and apparently solid, it is dissolved in alcohol, and the filtered solu- tion set aside to crystallise. Prop., Brilliant prismatic crystals, which are tasteless, odourless, volatile, and in- flammable ; scarcely soluble even in boiling water ; soluble in alcohol; melts at 248° Fahr., and distils without decomposition. With oil of vitriol, and with alcoholic solution of po- tassa, it forms a violet-blue solution. BEN'ZOINAM'IDE (-id). See Htdeoben- ZOINAMIDE. BENZOLE (-zole). [^benz{p\r^-oleum.~\ Syn. BEN'ZENE*,BEN'ZIDmEf, BeN'ZINE, Ben'ZOL*, BEN'ZOLINEf, BiCAR'BIDEOF HYDEOGENf, Ht'- DEIDE OF PHE'NYLE*, Ht'DEUEET OF P*., PHE'lVEt, &C. ; BeNZO'LEEM, L. ; BeNZINE, Fr.; Benzol, Ger. A peculiar ethereal hy- drocarbon discovered, by Faraday, among the products of the destructive distillation of whale oil and other organic substances (a.d, 1825); and subsequently shewn, by Mitscherlich, to form the principal ingredient in the distillate procured by the action of heat on a mixture of benzoic acid and hydrate of lime. In 1849, Mr. C. B. Mansfield^ discovered its presence in coal-tar naphtha, from which the ‘ benzole ’ of ‘ commerce ’ is now chiefly, if not wholly, obtained. Prep. 1. Peee;—a. A mixture of benzoic acid, 1 part; fresh-slaked lime, 3 parts ; is sub- mitted, in a coated glass or earthenware retort, to a heat slowly raised to redness; the oily portion of the resulting ‘ distillate ^ is then se- parated from the water, and carefully rectified, with the proper precautions, at a temperature not exceeding 190° Fahr. "Yhcproduct is usu- ally stated to be pure benzole ; but to ensure this it may be submitted to one refrigeration and rectification, in the manner and at the temperature noticed below. b. From good commercial benzole, agitated with l-4th or l-5th of its weight of concen- trated sulphuric acid, and, after repose and decantation, rectified at a temperature under 195° Fahr.; the resulting ‘ distillate ’ is ex- posed to a temperature below^ 32° Fahr., and the mass of crystals that form are thrown on a funnel, kept at the same temperature, to 1 This unfortunate chemist lost his life (Feb. 25,1855), in consequence of being severely burned whilst experi- menting on benzole. 2 Preferably ‘ considerably below.’ If the ‘distillate’ be not rich in benzole, a temperature so low as 8 or 10^, or even 4-5°, Fahr. may he necessary or, at all events, advantageous. drain, after which they are pressed between folds of bibulous paper,^ and then allowed to liquefy by simple exposure, in a close vessel, to the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere. The product, after rectification at a temperature not exceeding 190°, is nearly pure benzole. It may be rendered ‘ absolutely pure’ by repeat- ing the refrigeration a second, and a third time, followed by a final rectification at 180- 185° Fahr. 2. CoMMEEClAL :—By submitting light coal- tar naphtha to distillation, either at once, or after it has been agitated with a little oil of vitriol, and decanted, care being taken that the temperature does not exceed 200° Fahr. Prop. Pure benzole is a clear, colourless, very i mobile liquid, having a strong, characteristic, | and rather agreeable ethereal odour. It is neu- i tral to test paper; exceedingly volatile at all i temperatures; insoluble in water; miscible with alcohol and with ether; highly inflam- i mable; burns with a brilliant flame, emit- ting clouds of smoke, which rapidly condense and fall as a shower of fine sooty, carbonaceous matter; boils at 176° Fahr,;^ solidifies, at 32°, to a snowy white camphor-like mass, or, when very slowly refrigerated, to beautiful transpa- rent cruciform leaflets, which aggregate toge- ther into forms resembling fern-fronds; re- raelts at 40-1°Fahr.; and when solidified burns, like camphor, without previous fusion. Sp. gr., *850;° sp. gr. of vapour, 2-770.® It is un- affected lay the ordinary hydrated acids, and i has no action on the alkaline metals. Highly concentrated nitric acid readily dissolves it, and from this solution niteobenzole is precipi- tated on the addition of water. Its vapour is dangerously inflammable, and, when mixed with the air, is highly explosive. Its solvent power extends over a numerous list of sub- stances. Commercial benzole has a less agree- able odour, and not un frequently a slight co- ^ lour, with other modifications of the properties ^ just enumerated, depending on the relative amount of impurities contained in it. Pur.—1. It should be colourless, without action on either litmus or turmeric paper, and j have the boiling-point, sp. gr.,^ &c., already ) 3 Filtration under pressure is tbouglit hy some chemists to he preferable. For this purpose a ‘ Beart’s Coffee-pot,' (or a similarly constructed apparatus), was often em- ployed by Mansfield, and is recommended by Prof. I Muspratt. ^ Fowues, Mansfield, Muspratt, and others; 186°— Mitscherlich ; 187°—Mr. C. G. Williams (in Ure’s ‘ Diet, of A., M., ^ M.,” 5th ed.). See Note 5 (below). 5 Williams, Ure, Muspratt; ‘885—Fownes, Mitscherlich. The different sp. gr. and hoUing-poinfs assigned to benzole, by authors, can only be accounted for by samples of different degrees of purity having probably been examined. The ‘ numbers ’ given in the Text are those now usually adopted; but we are not prepared to say, i that they are definitely settled. On the contrary, we | think it not unlikely that further investigations may j show that the apparently greater levity of the benzole obtained from naphtha may arise from the presence of some other hydro-carbon w-hich has hitherto escaped detection. ® Theoretically, 2'7o8. 7 If it has a less sp. gr. than ‘850, it is probably adul-