1012 PATENT MEDICINES likely to prove useful in all those cases in which the administration of a mild diaphoretic and stomachic purge is indicated. Unlike many of the advertised nostrums of the day, there is nothing in their composition that can, by any possibility, prove injurious; but beyond this they are destitute of virtue. Anderson’s Scot’s Pills. See Pills. Atkinson’s Infant Preservative. From car- bonate of magnesia, 6 dr.; white sugar, 2 oz.; oil of aniseed, 20 drops; spirit of sal volatile, 2^ dr.; laudanum, 1 dr.; syrup of saffron, 1 oz.; caraway water to make up 1 pint. Balm of Eackasiri. See Balsam (page 262). Balsam of Life. Syn. Baume de vie, Fr. Several compound medicines of this name are noticed on page 261. The following are well- known nostrums:— 1. (Hoffman’s.) —a. Of the oils of cinnamon, cloves, lemon, lavender, and nutmegs, and bal- sam of Peru, of each, 2 dr.; essence of amber- gris, oil of amber, and oil of rue, o^. each, 1 dr.; cochineal, 12 gr.; strongest rectified spirit, 3|- pints; mix. b. (Ph. Dan. 1840.) Oils of cinnamon, cloves, lavender, and nutmegs, of each, 20 gr.; purified oil of amber, 10 drops; balsam of Peru, 30 gr.; rectified spirit (tinged with alkanet root), 10 oz. 2. (Gabius’s.) Nearly similar to Hoff- mann’s. 3. (Turlington’s.) Benzoin and liquid styrax, of each, 12 oz.; balsam of tolu and extract of liquorice, of each, 4 oz.; balsam of Peru, 2 oz.; aloes, myrrh, and angelica root, of each, 1 oz.; highly rectified spirit of wine, 7 pints; digest, with frequent agitation for 10 days, and filter. Externally, the above are rubefacient and corroborant; internally, stimulant, cordial, and pectoral. Betton’s British Oil. From oil of turpen- tine, 1 pint; Barbadoes tar, ^ lb.; oil of rose- mary, 1 fl. oz. Blake’s Green-mountain Ointment. We are told that the active ingredient in this com- pound is Arnica montana, with a basis of soap cerate. It is very useful as an external appli- cation in several affections. The chief ob- jection to its use is that it is a secret pre- paration. Blake’s Toothache Essence. From alum, in fine powder, 1 dr.; sweet spirit of nitre, 5 dr. Boerhaave’s Odontalgic Essence. From opium, ^ dr.; oil of cloves, 2 dr.; powdered camphor, 5 dr.; rectified spirit,.!^ fl. oz. Bouchardat’s Tasteless Aperient. From phosphate of soda, f oz., placed in a soda-water bottle, which is then filled up with carbonated water, at the bottling machine. For a dose. Brande’s Tooth Tincture. From pellitory of Spain (bruised), 1 oz.; camphor, f oz.; opium, i oz.; oil of cloves, 1 dr.; digested for 10 days in 7'eciified spirit, ^ pint. Brodum’s Nervous Cordial. Pi'ep. 1. ‘‘Ori- ginally it consisted simply of an hifusion of gentian root in English gin, coloured and fla- voured with a little red lavender (coinpoun spirit of lavender). After a time the docto added a little barJc to the nostrum, and sul sequently made other additions.” (‘ Anat. c Quackery.’) 2. (Paris.) Tinctures of gentian, calumhi cardamoms, and cinchona, compound spirits c lavender, and steel wine, of each, equal part- “ It is tonic, stomachic, and stimulant; bui beyond these, possesses no curative properties. (‘ Anat. of Quackery.’) Chlorodyne. This nostrum, which was fir.- introduced as “ a combination of perchlori acid with a new alkaloid,” has become a popii lar anodyne and sedative. Several prepara tions are sold under this name, and the claim of the rival makers have occasioned som expensive lawsuits. The name was undoubl edly invented by Dr. J. Collis Browne, bn I Mr. Freeman, pharmaceutical chemist, claim to be the inventor of the preparation. Whetht Browne’s and Freeman’s ‘ chlorodynes’ ar essentially the same, we are not able to deter mine, but we know that there is not tli slightest foundation for the statements mad by each manufacturer respecting the ne\ vegetable principle contained in his medicine Chlorodyne, in every one of its forms, is simpl_ a mixture of certain well-known materiab some of which are rather dangerous ingrt dients for a popular nostrum. According t the analysis of Dr. Ogden, Browne’s chloro dyne is composed as follows:— Chloroform, 6 dr.; chloric ether, 1 dr. tincture of capsicum, ^ dr.; oil of peppermin) 2 drops; hydrochlorate of morphine, 8 gr. Scheele’s hydrocyanic acid, 12 drops ; perchlori acid, 20 drops; tincture of Indian hemp, 1 dr., treacle, 1 dr. ‘ Towle’s chlorodyne’ is pi\ pared according to this formula, the ingrt dients being named on the label. Clarke’s Conglutinum. (See page 475.) Cochrane’s Cough Eemedy. Acidulated syvu of poppies. Corn Nostrums. (See page 485.) Cottereau’s Odontalgic Essence. A near), saturated ethereal solution of camphor, mixe with about y^th of its volume of strong liquo of ammonia. \ Curtis’s Anti-venereal Lotion. A mixtui ! of Beaufoy’s solution of chloride of lime, 2 1! ' oz., with cold soft water, 8 fl. oz. For use, 11 I 2 table-spoonfuls are put into a wine-glassfu I of water. ! Dalby’s Carminative. 1. (Dr. Paris.) Car ! bonate of magnesia, 40 gr.; tincture of casto’\ I and compound tincture of cardamoms, of eacli j 30 drops; tincture of asafoetida and spirit o ^pennyroyal, of each, 15 drops; laudanum I 5 drops ; oil of aniseed, 3 drops; oil of nutmeg 2 drops ; oil of pe^jpermint, 1 drop ; pejiper mint water, 2 fl. oz. Dose. ^ to 1 teaspoon ful. The bottle should be well shaken befor pouring it out. > 2. (Wholesale.) Carbonate of magnesia 1 oz.; tincture of castor, 5 fl. dr.; tincture oj