CHRYSOLEPIC ACID—CIDER. 447 ; CHRYSOLETIC ACID. Obtained from the I mother-liquor which has deposited chrysammic acid. It forms golden-yellow, crystalline scales, of sparing solubility. It greatly resembles picric acid. Chrysolepate of potassa occurs j under the forms of small, yellow, prismatic ;j crystals. CHRYSOPHAN'IC ACID. From Parmelia parietina, or yellow wall parmelia. It crys- tallizes in beautiful golden-coloured needles, and may be sublimed in close vessels without I decomposition. j CHUR'RUS. See Extracts and Hemp I (Indian). I CI'DER. Syn. Cyder; Pomacetjm, L. I Cider is the fermented juice of the apple, and is a very ancient beverage. Pliny calls cider j and perry the “ wine of apples and pears.’^ 1 The attention of the cider farmer should be ' first directed to the culture of the apple tree. ! The situation most appropriate for an OR- j CHARD is one on rising ground, rather dry I than moist, and unexposed to sea air or high I winds. The soil should be strong, but not too heavy, and should be rich in the alkaline and earthy bases, especially the phosphates, j The selection of the proper varieties of the I apple for grafting, is also a point on which particular care should be taken. It is found that the juices of different kinds of apples vary j in the quantity of saccharine matter which I they contain, as well as in other particulars I that influence the quality and flavour of the cider prepared from them. In general, those varieties should be chosen that yield a juice I rich in sugar, and contain no undue amount of j acid, and which, after the period of active ] fermentation is past, furnishes a liquor which clarifies itself, and keeps well. This quality i of the juice may generally be determined from I its specific gravity. The heaviest and clearest 1 is the best; other points being equal. The j following table, by M. Convercher, may here I be advantageously inserted:— Varieties of Apple, Sp. gr. Green rennette, or 1 queen apple . j j- . . 1-094 English rennette . . 1-080 Red rennette . 1-072 Musk rennette . 1-069 Fouillet raye. . 1-064 Orange apple. . 1-063 Rennette of Caux . . 1-060 English writers generally class cider apples \ into—bitter, sweet, and sour. The first are I the best; their juice has the greatest specific ' gravity, is the richest in sugar, ferments the I most freely, clarifies spontaneously the quickest, I and keeps the best after fermentation. They contain a minute quantity of extractive I matter which is not present in other apples, i The juice of sweet apples ferments tumul- tuously, clears with difiiculty, and the resulting cider does not keep so well as that produced I from the first variety. The juice of sour apples contains less sugar and more acid than tl)e other two, and consequently not only pro- duces the weakest, but the worst cider; it, however, “ fines” well, although it “ stores” badly. Sour and rough-tasted apples are usually preferred by farmers for making cider. This preference, which is very decided among the farmers of the West of England, may be readily accounted for. The sour and rough- tasted apples contain less sugar' and more malic acid than some of the other varieties, and the presence of this acid impedes the conversion of the alcohol of the cider into vinegar; a change which their rude mode of operating renders otherwise inevitable. But cider made with such apples never equals in quality that prepared at a low temperature from fruit abounding in sugar, provided equal skill is exercised in the manufacture, as in the pro- cess of converting malt-worts into beer. The process of making cider varies in dif- ferent places, but in every case essentially consists of—the collection of the fruit ; the expression and fermentation of the juice ; and the storing and management of the fermented liquor. The collection of the fruit should not be commenced before it has become sufficiently mature, and should be performed with greater care than is commonly bestowed upon it. The apples after being gathered are usually left for 14 or 15 days in a barn or loft, to mellow or mature, during which time a considerable portion of the mucilage is decomposed and al- cohol and carbonic acid developed. If this ripening” is allowed to go too far, loss arises; notwithstanding the vulgar prejudice in its favour. The spoiled apiples are then separated from the sound ones, as they not only impkrt a bad flavour to the cider, but impede its spontaneous clarification. Unripe apples are also avoided, as they do not contain sufficient sugar to undergo the vinous fermentation, whilst they contribute to render the liquor rough and acidulous, and watery. The expression of the juice is the next step in the process of cider-making. The apples are crushed or ground in mills consisting of two fluted cylinders of hard wood or cast iron, working against each other. The common prac- tice is next to sprinkle the pulp with ^th to Jth of its weight of spring or river water, and then to allow it to remain in tubs or wooden cisterns for 12 or 14 hours, during which time incipient fermentation commences, and the breaking up of the cells of the membrane takes place, by which the subsequent sepa- ration of the juice is facilitated. This plan, though general among farmers, is prejudicial to the quality of the future liquor; as not only is a portion of the newly formed alcohol lost, but the skins and pips often impart to it a disagreeable flavour. By employing more efficient crushing or comminuting machinery, this system of vatting is rendered quite un- necessary. A machine furnished with a re-