LIQUOmCE-LTTHIA. 853 spirit, 1 fl. oz.; lastly, mix the two products. I Greatly inferior to the last, j LIQ'UOE-ICE. Syn. Stick liquorice ; Li- 1 QUORITIA, GLYCYRRniZJ3 RADIX, GlYCYR- I RJIIZA (Ph. L. & D.), G. GLABRA (Ph. E.), L. I “ The recent and the dried root of Glycyrrhiza I glabra,” or common liquorice. The fresh root is to he kept buried in dry sand for use.’^ i (Ph. L.) It has a sweetish taste, and is I .slightly aperient, expectorant, and diuretic, j It is a popular demulcent and pectoral. As a j masticatory, it allays thirst and irritation. Its j extract is the common liquorice, Spanish ; liquorice, or Spanish juice, of the shops. See Extract, &c. LIST. The border or selvage torn off a piece of cloth. It is used by the ‘French I polishers’ and law stationers to form their ; rubbers, and for numerous other purposes. LITH'ARGE. Syn. Semi-yitrieied oxide of LEAD; PlUMBI OXYDU3I (Ph. L.), PLU3IBI OXYDU3I SE3II-VITREU3I (Ph. D.), LlTHARGY- I RUM (Ph. E.), L. The litharge of commerce I is semi-vitrified protoxide of lead, obtained chiefly by scraping off the dross that forms I on the surface of melted lead exposed to a j current of air (dross op lead; plumbum j USTU3I), and heating it to a full red, to melt I out any undecomposed metal. fused oxide, j in cooling, forms a yellow or reddish semi- ! crystalline mass, which readily separates into j scales; these, when ground, constitute the j ‘ powdered litharge’ of the shops. Litharge is also prepared by exposing red lead to a heat I sufficiently high to fuse it, and ‘ English li- ! tharge’ is obtained as a secondary product by liquefaction, from argentiferous lead ore, when it is often called silver stone. Pur. “ Entirely, or almost entirely, soluble in dilute nitric acid. This solution is black- ened by sulphuretted hydrogen. Potassa throws down a white precipitate, which is re- ! dissolved by adding the same in excess. If sulphate of soda be added to 100 gr. of this I oxide dissolved in nitric acid, 135 gr. of sul- phate of lead is precipitated.” (Ph. L.) “50gr. j dissolve entirely, and without effervescence, in la fi. oz. of pyroligneous acid, and the solu- tion precipitated by 53 gr. of phosphate of soda remains precipitable by more of the test.” I (Ph. E.) The solution in both acetic and nitric acid should be colourless. It is of great im- portance to the pharmaceutist to obtain pure litharge, as the slightest impurity will often ! colour and spoil his lead plaster (e3IP. I PLU3IBI), and solution of diacetate of lead (liq. i PLUaiBI diacetatis). Uses. Intharge is employed in pharmacy, to I make plasters and several other preparations I of lead; by painters as a ‘ drier ’ for oils; and I for various other purposes in the arts. ! Obs. The litharge of commerce is distin- I guished by its colour as litharge op gold I (LITHA.RGYRUM AURI, L. AURIUM, L. CHRY- ! SiTis), which is dark coloured and impure, and t LITHARGE OF SILVER (SILVER STONE; LI- THARGYRUM ARGENTI, L. ARGENTEUM, L. AR- GYRiTis), which is purer, and paler coloured. The dark colour of the former is generally said to be owing to the presence of red lead. Fo- reign LITHARGE generally contains copper and iron; and, not unfrequently, a little silver and silica. These are readily detected by the usual tests. In grinding litharge, about 1 lb. of olive oil is usually added to each 1 cwt., to pre- vent dust. The best solvents of litharge are nitric acid and acetic acid. As it slowly ab- sorbs the carbonic acid of the air, it generally effervesces slightly when treated with acids, and this effervescence is stronger in propor- tion to its age. See Lead. LITH'IA. Syn. Oxide op Lithium. An alkali, or alkaline earth, discovered in 1818, by Arfwedson, in a mineral called petalite. It has since been found in a few other mine- rals, and in minute quantities in some mineral springs. Prep. (Berzelius.) Petalite or spondumene (in fine powder), 1 part; fluor spar, 2 parts ; mix, add oil of vitriol, 10 parts, and heat the mixture as long as acid vapours are evolved; dissolve the residuum in pure water of ammo- nia, boil, filter, evaporate the solution to dry- ness, and heat the dry mass to redness. The matter left is pure ‘sulphate of lithia,’ from which pure lithia may be obtained by decom- posing it by acetate of baryta, and expelling the acetic acid from the filtered solution by heat; at first carbonate of lithia is formed, from which the carbonic acid is expelled as the temperature increases. The final product is the hydrated oxide of lithium (hydrate op lithia). Prop., tests, Lithia is caustic, alkaline, and sparingly soluble in water. One of its most remarkable properties is its power of cor- roding platinum at a high temperature. It is distinguished from potassa and soda by its phosphate and carbonate being only sparingly soluble in water,—from baryta, strontia, and lime, by forming crystallizable and soluble salts with sulphuric acid and oxalic acid,—and from MAGNESIA, by the solution of its carbo- nate exhibiting an alkaline reaction. Heated on platinum, it tinges the flame of the blow- pipe carmine red. The salts of lithia may ge- nerally be formed by dissolving the hydrate or carbonate in dilute acids. Car'bonate of Lithia. Syn. LiTiiUi: car- BONAS, L. Prep. To an aqueous solution of sulphate of lithia, add a strong solution of ses- quicarbonate of ammonia, collect the precipi- tate, drain, and press, wash with a little rec- tified spirit, and dry. By dissolving it in boiling water, and slowly evaporating the solu- tion, crystals may be obtained. Prop., Sfc. It resembles carbonate of mag- nesia in appearance; is soluble in about 100 parts of cold water, and in considerably less of boiling water. It has been proposed by M. Lipowitz, Dr. Garrod, and others, as a solvent for uric acid calculi. According to Biswanger,