ALKALI—ALKALIMETER. 93 i tj tution:—1. Those which are true metallic oxides (potassa, soda, lithia) :—2. One without oxygen (ammonia):—3. Those consisting of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, and which are chiefly of organic origin (the alka- loids, as morphia, quina, strychnia, ^c.); but ; this classification possesses little practical I value. I Prop., char., <^c. Some of these have been I already enumerated. Potassa, soda, and am- I monia, are known by the following character- ' istics:—1. An acrid, urinous taste: 2. Great j causticity, and energetic action as solvents of animal matter: 3. Changing litmus and most ' other vegetable blues to green ; and turmeric 1 paper, and other vegetable yellows, brown : 4. Forming soaps with the fixed oils and fats: 5. Forming salts with the acids : 6. Free sol- ubility in water and in alcohol: 7. Solubility of their carbonates in aqueous menstrua: I 8. Action of their carbonates on vegetable colours, as in their pure state, but feebler: 9'. Their solutions imparting a soapy, greasy sen- sation to the cuticle: 10. Evolving a peculiar i soapy odour when in contact with organic matter: 11. Permanency in the fire (potassa, soda); or volatility, with pungent alkaline fumes (ammonia): 12. Solubility and other properties not impaired by calcination {ex- cepting ammonia).^ Phys. eff., i^c. The alkalies combine with the acids present in the system; decompose the albumen and fibrine of the fiuids and organic tissues, and combine wdth them, form- I ing soluble compounds; precipitate the earthy ^ phosphates; with fatty and oily substances they form an emulsion capable of permeating animal membrane; in a concentrated form they act as caustics, destroying both organi- sation and life, by dissolving and saponifying the tissues, and are hence classed with the corrosive poisons; in the dilute state, they remove acidity of the stomach, and when in excess become absorbed in combination with albuminous matter ; they are then eliminated by the kidneys, chiefly as carbonates, and as phosphates, chlorides, &c. The alkaline salts also combine with the fluids and tissues; those with the organic acids {except the benzoates\ re-appear in the excretions under the form of carbonates. In moderate doses, they act as antacids, assist the digestion of fatty matter when there is a deficiency of bile, and increase the flow of urine; but in full or long-continued doses, they produce the general effects of lique- facients, attenuants, and blood-impoverishers. Their long-continued or injudicious use dis- orders the functions of the stomach and assi- milative organs, giving rise to an alkalescent, putrid state of the humours, and symptoms ’ It is here worthy of remark, that the capacity of satura- tion in all the alkaline bases which are ‘metallic oxides,’ depends upon the of oxygen contained in them, which is exactly the same in the equivalent weight of each. The same applies to ammonia, and to all, or nearly all, the alkaloids ; except that in them nitrogen, and not ‘ oxygen,’ is the constant quantity. simulating scurvy.—Lesions. The mucous membrane of the mouth, throat, and gullet, is generally softened, detached, and inflamed in patches of a deep chocolate colour, sometimes almost black; and not infrequently it is wholly destroyed, with exposure of the mus- cular coat. The mucous surface of the stomach is generally eroded in patches, with inflam- mation; the cardiac orifice being commonly contracted, and sometimes ulcerated; and the pyloric end obstructed by ulceration or cica- trix, with more or less contraction, and some- times, nearly entire occlusion of its orifice. Uses, 8fc. In medicine, the concentrated alkalies are employed as escharotics; when diluted, or in small doses (chiefly carbonated), as antacids or absorbents, in stomach com- plaints, and poisoning by the acids ; as deter- gents, lithontriptics, diuretics, resolvents, li- quefacients, and alteratives; in acute, inflam- matory diseases, rheumatism, gout, dropsy, and glandular and visceral enlargements. They are also used as cosmetics. In the arts, their applications are numerous—soap is a compound of alkaline and fatty matter, and common salt is formed of soda and hydrochloric acid. Their salts are applied to almost numberless pur- poses in pharmacy, chemistry, bleaching, dye- ing, and the other arts of life and civilisa- tion. Caution. Like the acids, the pure or caustic alkalies, and their solutions, should be kept in stoppered green-glass bottles, well secured from the air, as they otherwise rapidly absorb carbonic acid, and become carbonates. The alkaline carbonates also require exclusion to prevent efflorescence {soda), or deliquescence {potassa). Ammonia-water must be kept in a well-stoppered bottle, and in a cool situation. See Absoebents, Alkalimetey, Alkaloids, Ammonia, Antacids, Lithia, Potassa, Soda, &c. (and below). Brit'ish Alkali. Crude carbonate of soda obtained by decomposing the chloride. Scotch soda. It is frequently applied to soda-ash. Cau'stic Alkalies. The alkalies in their pure or uncombined state, in which they exhibit their full energy. (See above.) Fixed' Alkalies. Potassa, soda, and (some- times) lithia. Foss'il Alkali.f Soda. Min'eral Alkali.f Soda. Organ'ic Alkalies. The alkaloids. Phlogis'ticated Alkalif, Prus'sian Alkali. Ferrocyanide of potassium. Veg'etahle Alkalif (vej'-). Potassa. Veg'eto-Alkalies. The alkaloids. Vol'atile Alkali. Ammonia. ALKAL'IFY, Alkalifac'tion, &c. See Alka- LISE, &c. ALKALIM'ETER. Syn. Alkalime'teum, L.; Alcalimetee, Fr. A measure or instru- ment employed in alkalimetry. In their con- struction, graduation, and use, they resemble ‘ acidimeters ’ (which see) ; the name in this.