FRENCH POLISH—FRICTION. 666 the Persian berries are the product of a dis- tinct species, namely, R. amydalinus. They are chiefly used for dyeing moi’occo leather yellow. Their decoction dyes cloth, previously mor- danted with alum, tartar, or protochloride of tin, of a yellow colour; with sulphate of cop- per, an olive; and with red sulphate of iron, an olive-green volour. FRENCH POLTSH. Several varnishes are used under this name. That most generally employed is a simple solution of pale shell-lac in either methylated spirit or wood naphtha. Some- times a little mastic, sandarac, or elemi, or copal varnish, is added to render the polish tougher. Prep. 1. From shell-lac, 5^ oz. ; finest wood naphtha, 1 pint; dissolve. 2. Pale shell-lac, 3 lb.; tvood naphtha, 1 gall. Methylated spirit (68 o. p.) may be substituted for the naphtha in each of the above formulae. 3. Pale shell-lac, 5 oz.; yum sandarac, 1 oz.; spirit (68 o. p.), 1 pint. 4. Pale shell-lac, 5| oz.; gum elemi, | oz.; spirit, 1 pint. 5. Pale shell-lac, 1^ lb.; mastic, i lb. ; spirit, 2 quarts. 6. Pale shell-lac, 2\ lb. ; maslic and san- darac, of each, 3 oz. ; spirit, 1 gall.; dissolve, add copal varnish, 1 pint, and mix by roughly agitating the vessel. All the above are used in the manner described below. 7. Shell-lac, 12 oz.; wood naphtha, 1 quart; dissolve, and add of linseed oil, \ pint. 8. Shell-lac, ^ lb.; gum sandarac, i lb.; spirit, 1 quart; dissolve, add of copal varnish, i pint; mix well, and further add of linseed oil, ^ pint. The last two require no oil on the rubber. Obs. The preparation of French polish is precisely similar to that of other spirit or naphthalic varnishes. Sometimes it is co- loured, in order to modify the character of the wood. A EEDDISH TINGE is given with dra- gon’s blood, alkanet root, or red sanders wood ; and a yellowish tinge, by turmeric root or gamboge. When it is simply desired to daeken the wood, brown shell-lac is employed to make the polish ; and when the object is to keep the wood LIGHT COLOUEED, a little oxalic acid (2 to 4 dr. to the pint) is commonly added. These substances are either steeped in or agitated with the polish, or with the solvent, before pouring it on the ‘ gums,’ until they dissolve, or a sufficient effect is produced. French polish is not required to be so clear and limpid as other varnishes, and is, therefore, never artificially clarified. See Vaenish, and below. FRENCH POLISHING. This process, now so generally employed for furniture and cabinet work, is performed as follows:—The surface to be operated on being finished off as smoothly as possible with glass paper, and placed oppo- site the light, the * rubber’ being made as di- rected below, and the polish (see above) being at hand, and preferably contained in a narrow- necked bottle, the workman moistens the middle of the flat face of the rubber with the polish, by laying the rubber on the mouth of the bottle and shaking up the varnish against it, once, by which means the rubber imbibes the proper quantity to cover a considerable extent of surface. He next encloses the rubber in a soft linen cloth, doubled, the rest of the cloth being gathered up at the back of the rubber to form a handle. The face of the linen is now moistened with a little raw linseed oil, applied with the finger to the middle of it, and the operation of polishing immediately commenced. For this purpose the workman passes his rubber quickly and lightly over the surface uniformly in one direction, until the varnish becomes dry, or neaidy so, when he again charges his rubber as before, omitting the oil, and repeats the rubbing, until three coats are laid on. He now applies a little oil to the rubber, and two coats more are com- monly given. As soon as the coating of var- nish has acquired some thickness, he wets the inside of the linen cloth, before applying the varnish, with alcohol, or wood naphtha, and gives a quick, light, and uniform touch over the whole surface. The work is, lastly, care- fully gone over with the linen cloth, moist- ened with a little oil and rectified spirit or naphtha, without varnish, and rubbed, as be- fore, until dry. The EUBBEE for French polishing is made by rolling up a strip of thick woollen cloth (list) which has been torn oft", so as to form a soft elastic edge. It should form a coil, from 1 to 3 inches in diameter, according to the size of the work. FRES'CO-PAINTING. See Painting. FRICANDEAU. [Fr.] Among cooks, a ra- gout, or fricassee of veal. The same term is also sometimes applied to stewed beef, highly seasoned. FRICASSEE [Fr.] A dish prepared by stewing or semi-frying, highly flavoured with herbs, spices, or sauce. Small things, as chickens, lamb, &c., and cold meat, are usually formed into fricassees. FRIC'TION. In a general sense, the act of rubbing one body against another j attrition. Friction. In mechanics, this is the resist- ance which the surface of a moving body meets with from the surface of the body on which it moves. To lessen the amount of friction in machines, various unctuous substances, as oil, tallow, soap, black-lead, &c., are used by en- gineers. These substances act by imparting smoothness to the points of contact, and thus reduce their resistance to each other. The full consideration of the subject belongs to engineering. Friction. In medicine, friction, whether simple or conjoined with liniments, is a thera- peutical agent of considerable power. By it, the circulation is promoted in debilitated parts, and medicinal substances {iodine, mercurials, opium, &c.) are made to penetrate the pores of |