712 GREEN PIGMENTS. of copper and alumina or chalk is now com- monly sold under the name in the shops. Prep. 1. A saturated solution of sal am- moniac, 3 parts, is poured over copper filings or shreds, 2 parts, contained in a vessel capable of being closed up, and the mixture is kept in a warm place for some weeks, when the newly formed green pigment is separated from the unoxodized copper, by washing the mix- ture on a sieve; it is then edulcorated with water, and slowly dried in the shade. Colour very deep and rich. The lighter shades are produced by the addition of sulphate of baryta. ' c. 2. A solution of crude carbonate of ammonia or hone spirit is added to a mixed solution of alum and blue vitriol, as long as it affects the liquor; in a short time the precipitate is col- lected, washed, and dried. The various shades of green are produced by using different quantities of alum, which ‘ pales ’ and ‘ cheap- ens ’ it. • . ■ ■ .1 Chrome Green. The superb green pigment used by enamellers under this name is the green oxide or sesquioxide of chromium.^ A hydrated oxide of chromium forms the ‘emerald green’ of Pannetierj it is prepared by melting in a crucible equivalent quantities of anhy- drous horacic and bichromate of potassium, and treating the fused mass with wateri The hydrated oxide thus produced is washed and finely triturated. The chrome green of the oil and colour shops is a mixture of - chrome yellow and Prus- sian blue. , ^ Cop'per Green. Green bice or mountain green, Brunswick green, emerald green, ver- diter, and several other well-known pigments, may be thus named. Em'erald Green. This term is commonly applied to the aceto-arsenite of copper, as pre- pared in England, It is the same compound, chemically speaking, aS . Schweinfurt green (which see'). Prep. A pulp is formed with verdigris, 1 part, and boiling water, q. s., and after being passed through a sieve, to remove lumps, is added gradually to a boiling solution of ar- senious acid, 1 part, in water, 10 parts, the mixture being constantly stirred until the precipitate becomes a heavy, granular powder, when it is collected on a calico filter, and dried on chalk stones. Frise Green. Syn. Feiezland geeen. This resembles Brunswick green. Gellart’s Green. A mixture of cobalt blue and flowers of zinc with some yellow pigment. Impe'rial Green. Schweinfurt green (see below). Iris Green. A pigment prepared by grind- ing the juice of the petals of the blue flag with quicklime. It is very fugitive. Green Lake. See Lake. Min'eral Green. This is the same as moun- tain green. 1 See 'gage 446. Mitis Green. Another of the many syno- nyms of Schweinfurt green. Moun'tain Green. This pigment is properly the native green carbonate or bicarbonate of copper (malachite^) ground to powder, either with or without the addition of a little orpi- ment or chrome yellow. That of the shops is commonly prepared by adding a solution of carbonate of soda, or of potassa, to a hot mixed solution of sulphate of copper and alum. Green verditer is commonly sold for this article. According to Watts, mountain green is the same as Neuwieder green. Neuwieder Green. Schweinfurt green mixed with gypsum or sulphate of baryta. Prussian Green. The sediment of the process of making Prussian blue from bullock’s blood or horns, before it has had the hydrochloric acid added to it. It is also prepared by pour- ing liquid chlorine upon freshly precipitated Prussian blue. As now sold, this pigment is generally a mixture of Prussian blue and gamboge. Rinman’s Green. This resembles that of Gellert. Sap-Green. A very fugitive pigment, pre- pared from the juice of buckthorn berries. The berries.are allowed to ferment for a week or eight days in a wooden tub. The juice is then pressed out, strained, a little alum added, and the whole evaporated to a proper consistence; it is next run into pigs’ bladders, and hung up in a dry situation to harden. An inferior article is made from the juice of black alder, and of evergreen privet. It is a common prac- tice to add I pint of lime-water and ^ oz. of gum arable to every pint of either of the above juices. Scheele’s Green. This is arsenite of copper. Prep. 1. White arsenic (in powder), 1 part; commercial potash, 2 parts; boiling water, 35 parts; dissolve, filter, and add the solution gradually, whilst still warm, to a filtered solu- tion of sulphate of copper (cryst.), 2 parts, as long as a precipitate falls; lastly, wash the newly formed pigment with warm water, and dry it. 2. ((Jre.) Powdered arsenious acid, 11 oz.; carbonate of potassa, 1^ lb.; boiling water, 1 gall.; dissolve, filter, and add the solution, as before, to another solution of crystallized sulphate of copper, 2 lb., in water, 3 gall. Prod. 1^ lb. A very fine grass-green colour. Schweinfurt Green. This splendid green pigment is the aceto-arsenite of copper. Prep. 1. Acetate of copper and arsenious acid, equal parts, are each dissolved separately in the least possible quantity of boiling water, and the solutions mixed whilst still as hot as pos- sible; an olive-green precipitate falls, which, by being boiled in the liquor 5 or 6 minutes, changes to a dense granular powder of a superb green colour. 2. Instead of boiling the solution containing the precipitate, it is allowed to cool and stand 2 See gage 482.