LEAD. 827 solved in nitric acid diluted with twice its weight of boiling water, after the iodine has been expelled, 66 gr. of sulphate of lead are thrown down.” (Ph. L.) “ 5 gr. of iodide of lead are entirely soluble (by boiling) in 1 fl. dr. of pyroligneous acid, diluted with fl. oz. of water; and golden crystals are abundantly deposited as the solution cools.” (Ph. E.) Bose, i gr. to 4 gr. or more, made into a pill; as a deobstruent and resolvent, in enlarge- ments of the cervical, axillary, and mesenteric glands, and in scrofulous affections and schir- rous tumours. See Ointment. Mag'istery of Lead. Syn. Plumbi magis- TEEIUM, L. The old name for precipitated carbonate of lead. Ni'trate of Lead. Syn. Netiteal niteite OF LEAD; PlUMBI NITEAS (Ph. E. & D.), Niteum satueninum, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. E.), Litharge, 4 ^ oz.; diluted nitric acid, 1 pint; dissolve by a gentle heat, and set the solution aside to crystallize. 2. (Ph. D.) Litharge (in fine powder), 1 oz.; pure nitric acid, 2 fl. oz., diluted with water, i pint; mix, apply a sand-heat, and evaporate to dryness, occasionally stirring; boil the resi- duum in water, 2^ pints, filter, acidulate with a few drops of nitric acid, evaporate to a pel- licle, and set the liquid aside to cool; lastly, dry the deposited crystals on bibulous paper, and preserve them in a well-closed bottle. 3. By dissolving metallic lead, or its car- bonate, in nitric acid. Use, ^c. This salt is extensively used in calico printing, and in the preparation of the iodide and other salts of lead. It was for- merly much esteemed in asthmas, haemor- rhages, and epilepsy. It is now often used as an external application in cancer, ulcers, wounds, and various cutaneous affections. It is the basis of Liebert’s celebrated ‘ cosme- TiQUE INFALLIBLE,^ and of Ledoyen^s ‘dis- infecting FLUID.’ A very weak solution is an excellent application to chapped nipples, lips, hands, &c. Dose. to 1 gr.; in the form of piU or solution, washed down with a table-spoonful of water very slightly acidu- lated with nitric acid, Obs. Several basic niteates of lead are known to chemists. Nitro-sac'charate of Lead. Syn. Plumbi NiTEOSACCHAEAS, L. Prep. (Dr. S. E. Hos- kins.) Nitric acid, 1 part; water, 19 parts; mix; in this dilute acid saccharate of lead (in fine powder) is to be dissolved, and the solu- tion evaporated by a gentle heat, and set aside that crystals may form, which are to be dried by pressure between the folds of bibulous paper. A weak solution of this salt, acidulated with saccharic acid, has been employed by Dr. Hos- kins as a solvent for phosphatic calculi, with ap- parent success. See Injection (Lithontriptic). Ox'ides of Lead. Most chemists distinguish four oxides of lead, of which one only (the protoxide) possesses basic properties and is capable of forming true salts with the acids. 1. Suhox'ide of Lead. Syn. Dioxide of LEAD; Plumbi suboxydum, L. Prepared by heating dry oxalate of lead in an ‘oil bath’ to 572° Fahr. as long as any gas is eliminated. It is also formed on the surface of metallic lead by long exposure to the air. (Berzelius.) It is a dark gi*ay or black powder; acids re- solve it into the peotoxide, which they dis- solve, and METALLIC LEAD, which remains behind in a pulverulent state. It absorbs oxygen with great rapidity when heated, and also w’hen moistened with water and freely exposed to the air. 2. Protoxide of Lead. Syn. Oxide of LEAD; Yellow oxide of l., Plumeeous ACID; Plumbi oxtdum, P. peotoxydum, L. Prep. 1. This substance is obtained per- fectly pure by expelling the acid from nitrate of lead, by exposing it to heat in a platinum crucible; or, still better, by adding ammonia to a cold solution of nitrate of lead until the liquid becomes faintly alkaline, washing the precipi- tate with cold water, drying it, and heating it to moderate redness for 1 hour, as above. 2. (Hydrated; Plumbi oxydum hydea- TUM—Ph. L. 1836.) Solution of diacetate of lead, 6 pints; distilled water, 3 gall.; mix, and add liquor of potassa as long as a precipitate forms, avoiding excess; wash with v, ater what is precipitated until nothing alkaline remains. A white powder used in preparing disulphate of quinine. “ It is totally soluble in dilute nitric acid ” (Ph. L.), and in a con- siderable excess of liquor of potassa. Prop., S)’c. Pure protoxide of lead has a lemon-yellow colour, and is the base of all the salts of lead. It is very heavy, slightly so- luble in water, and freely so in acids, particu- larly w^hen in the hydrated state; the aqueous i solution has an alkaline reaction; at a red j heat it melts, and assumes a semi-crystalline I form on cooling; in the melted state it ra- I pidly attacks and dissolves siliceous matter, with which it unites to form glass (flint glass) ; when heated along with organic sub- stances of any kind, it is easily reduced to the metallic state. On the commercial scale, this oxide is prepared by heating the gray film or dross that forms on the surface of melted lead when freely exposed to the air. When the process is arrested, as soon as the oxide ac- quires a uniform yellow colour, it is called ‘ MASSICOT ’; when the heat is stiU further increased imtil it fuses or partially vitrifies, it forms ‘ LITHAEGE,’ of which there are several varieties. See Lithaege, Massicot, and below. 3. Red Oxide of Lead. Syn. Plumb ate of OXIDE OF LEAD ; PlUMBI OXYDUM EU- BEUM, L. This is prepared by exposing un- \ fused protoxide of lead to the air for a long time, at a dull red heat. It is a very heavy powder, of a fine red colour, decomposed by a strong heat into protoxide of lead, and oxygen gas, which is evolved. Somewhat uncertain in its composition, but is now generally re-