29 ACID. I; .1 thelium-scales, and corrode and destroy the f, organic tissues, like other corrosive poisons. I' The dilute acids also act as poisons when ♦ swallowed in large quantities, though their ll action is proportionately milder. Pois., —Symp. Acid, acrid, burning !i taste; intense heat in the throat, stomach and fi abdomen; nausea, vomiting (often bloody), I the rejected matters effervescing upon the l| stone pavement, and when mixed with chalk i! or carbonate of soda; hiccough; constipation, fj or copious diarrhoea; thirst; rigors; strong, ; irregular pulse; cold, clammy perspiration; i. difficult micturition, and livid countenance.— . j Lesions. Corrosion of the tissues; perforation I of stomach ; effusion into the peritoneal cavity; and the usual appearances from death by i intense peritonitis.—Jnt., ^c. Lukewarm water i or other diluents (milk, broth, &c.) copiously . administered, mixed with chalk, magnesia, I or (except for oxalic acid) the carbonates or J! bicarbonates of potassa and soda ; salad oil, oil yj of almonds, &c., may also be given, followed by a strong emetic; and subsequently, by ij emollients, warm baths, and, if required to li allay nervous excitability, by small doses of I morphia or opium. The diet during con- ! valescence should be light and digesti- i ble. I Uses. In medicine, the acids are employed Vi as escharotics, anti-alkalines, astringents, j' styptics, lithontriptics, tonics, refrigerants, &c. /j Water slightly acidulated with them is com- : monly employed to lessen the perspiration and ii tendency to putrescence in fevers, and to allay J the irritation in prurigo and other skin-dis- ii eases; and combined with bark, quinine, and Ij bitters, as an alterative and tonic in the de- {, praved condition of the body occurring in »: scurvy, secondary syphilis, mercurial disease, i &c. The acids are also employed in veterinary I practice. In the arts, in pharmacy, chemistry, .j and domestic economy, their uses are numerous :j and varied, as noticed under their respective i names. Concluding Remarks. From the corrosive I nature of all the strong liquid and soluble I acids, they should be kept in glass bottles, I furnished with perfectly tight ground-glass ; stoppers; glass vessels should be used in I measuring them, and they should be dispensed j in stoppered phials, whenever the compound i containing them is more than very weakly I acidulous. Too much care, also, cannot be I observed in their administration, to prevent j mere local action on the tissues before their 1 secondary effects can occur. This is best pre- I vented by the plentiful addition of pure water, i For measuring the doses, glass or silver should • alone be used, and it will be found advan- tageous either to take them from a ‘ medical j spoon,* or to suck them up through a small glass or silver tube. The mouth should then I be immediately rinsed with water (especially j after the mineral acids), to prevent erosion of the teeth, which when these acids are long taken, is often of a very extensive and serious description. The same remarks apply to mix- tures and draughts containing the acid and super-salts, and sulphate or disulphate of qui- nine, to which it is the common practice to add a little sulphuric acid to promote solution. See Acidimetey, Antalkalines, Nomexcla- TDKE, &c. (also below). Anhy'drous Acids. Acid compounds free from combined or basic water. The inorganic acids, as carbonic acid, sulphuric acid, and es- pecially the hydrogen acids, are easily obtained in the dry state; but the reverse is the case with most of the organic acids. Indeed, until recently, it was generally believed that the latter could not exist disunited from water, or a base; and this is still asserted by many chemists. Gerhardt appears, however, to have obtained several of them in the anhydrous form; and, reasoning from analogy, it may fairly be assumed that the whole of them are equally capable of being dehydrated. See Acids (Organic). Animal Acids. See Acids {above). Dul'cified Acids.f Among the old chemists, mineral acids rendered milder by the addition of alcohol. In this way both these substances suffer decomposition, and new compounds are formed. Fatt'y Acids. Acids separated or obtained from fats or oils; as butyric acid, capric acid, oleic acid, &c. Hy'drogen Acids, Hydraclds (-dras'-). Bi- nary compounds formed by the combination of non-metallic simple substances, or salt- radicals, with hydrogen; as hydrochloric acid, which consists of hydrogen and chlorine. All the acids of this class contain only one equiva- lent of each of their constituents. Most of them possess the characteristics of the acids in a high degree. They neutralise the oxygen bases with the formation of haloid salts and water. See Acids {above). Inorganic Acids. See Acids. Min'eral Acids. Acids derived chiefly or wholly from the mineral kingdom. In medU cine, the sulphuric, muriatic, and nitric acids, are commonly so called. Organic Acids. Those which are formed by or derived from organic substances, as dis- tinguished from those which originate from inorganic matter. The organic acids were first obtained in the anhydrous state, by Gerhardt, about the middle of the present century. According to his origi- nal process, oxychloride of phosphorus is added to an excess of the anhydrous soda-salt of the given acid ; a chloeide of the eadical is thus formed, which being separated and heated with a fresh quantity of the anhydrous soda-salt, yields the new anhtdeous acid, by distilla- tion, crystallisation, or decantation, as the case may be. In some cases the process may be brought to a conclusion without a second operation, by employing a sufficient excess of the soda-salt to allow the newly formed chlo-