298 BEES—BEETLE. a? before. One or two wine-glassfuls early in the morning, and an hour before a meal. Sulphu"ric-acid Beer (-as'-). Syn. Sulphu"- Eic lem'onade; Cerevis'ia acidi sulphu"- EICI, C. anticol'ica, L. P7'ep. 1. Treacle heeVy or other vjeak mild beer or ale, to which a little concentrated sulphuric acid has been added, in the proportion of about 1 dr. to every 8 or 10 pints; the whole being well agitated together, and allowed a few hours to settle. 2. Treacle, 14 lb.; bruised ginger, ^ lb.; co- i'iandet'S, \ oz.; capsicum and cloves, of each, \ oz.; water, 12^ gal. j yeast, 1 pint; proceed as for ‘ ginger-beer,’ and when the fermenta- tion is nearly over, add of oil of vitriol, oz. (diluted with 8 times its weight of water), and of bicarbonate of soda, 1^ oz. (dissolved in a little water). It is fit to drink in 3 or 4 days.* Use, S(c. It is taken with great benefit by workers in lead, especially by those em- ployed in white-lead works; also in cases of lead-colic, poisoning by lead or its salts, &c. A tumblerful twice or thrice daily. It is both harmless and wholesome. Tar Beer. Sijn. Ceeevis'ia pi'cis, C. p. LIQ'uid.E, L. Pi ep. (Duhamel.) Bran, 2 pints; tar, 1 pint; honey, ^ pint; water, 6 pints; mix, and gently simmer together for 3 hours when lukewarm add of yeast, | pint; let it ‘ work ’ for 36 hours, and strain.^ Pectoral, anti-asthmatic, antiphthisic, &c.—Bose. One wdne-glassful before each meal, in bronchial and chest diseases, and incipient consumption. See Beees (In Pharmacy; above). BEES (beze). See Apis, Bee, Wax, &c. BEES'WING. The second or ‘pseudo-crust’ so much admired in port and a few other wines, and which forms in them only when kept for some time after the ‘ first ’ or ‘ true crust ’ has formed. It consists of minute, glittering, fioating particles or lamellee of ‘ tartar,’ purer, and freer from astringent matter, than that deposited in the ‘ first ’ crust. See Ceust, Wines, &c. BEET (bete). Syn. Be'ta, L. ; Biet, D. ; Bette, Fr.; Beete, Mangold, M.-keadt, Ger.; Bietola, It. The common name of plants of the gemis ‘ beta,’ and the nat. ord. Chenopodese (DC.). There are said to be only two distinct species cultivated—beta vulgdr'is and b. horten'sis—each of which occurs in several varieties ; those of the first, and udiich M’’e have chiefly to consider, producing a large fleshy root (beet'-eoot, man'gold-e. ; ea'dix BE'T^, L. ; BETTEEAVE, Fr. ; EOTHE EUBE, &c., Ger.),** which is both sweet and succulent; 1 This is an improvement on Mr. Benson’s formula, given in our previous editions. * A better plan is not to boil the ingredients, but to use hot xvater, and to occasionally well ‘ agitate the whole, in a loosely-corked jar, until the liquid is only lukewarm.’ ® Another formula is to add the tar to tiie ingredients of‘ginger-beer’or ‘treacle beer,’whilst hot, and before fermentation. * i’or other syuonymes see both above and belov\ those of the other, only succulent leaves. The i varieties most useful, and now the most exten- sively cultivated in England, are of compara- ! tively recent introduction; ‘field-beet,’ the i mangold-wurzel of the Germans, having been only brought under the notice of our agricul- ' turists towards the end of the last century. Field Beet. See Hybrid Beet. Hy'brid Beet. Syn' Common beet. Field B.; Be'ta ht'brida, B. vtjlga"eis h., L. ; Bette commune, Betterave c., Racine d’abondance,® R. de disette,® &c., Fr.; Mangold, M.-wuezel, Mangel-w.,’ &c., Ger.® A variety of beta vulgaris (Linn.), and that usually cultivated by English farmers. Root, red on the outside, white inside; chiefly grown as winter-food for cattle, being v.istly superior to turnips. It has been used, in Germany, as a substitute for bread in times of scarcity. Leaves, dressed and eaten like spinach. Red Beet. Syn. Cu'linaey beet. Garden B., Beet'-eadish, Beet'eave, &c.; Be'ta eu'bra, B. vulga"eis e., L. ; Betterave, &c., Fr.; Rothe eube, &c., Ger.® Root, tender, well-flavoured, and of a rich red-colour throughout, and hence much used in salads, pickles, and cookery; also made into a con- serve, jam, or confection. The kinds most esteemed for salads are the small red and the TELLOWISH-EED varieties of Castelnaudari. Sea Beet. Syn. Be'ta marit'ima, L. Said to be the best variety for dressing as spinach. White Beet. Syn. Be'ta al'ba, B. tul- ga"eis a., B. ci'cla, L. ; Bette blanche, PoiEEE, &c., Fr. A sub-variety of the red beet. Root, white, and hence preferred for making sugar; that with a purple crown being the most esteemed. Obs. The preceding varieties of beet re- semble each other in their general properties. They are all antiscorbutic, detergent, emol- lient, and nutritious; and their roots contain about 8g of sugar, which, by proper treatment, may be obtained from them of excellent quality. The grated root is sometimes used to dress blisters and foul ulcers. When sliced, and dried in a malt-kiln, a very palatable beer may be brewed with it. The leaves of each variety are dressed and eaten like spinach. The roots,^ov the table, after being carefully washed, are dressed whole—neither scraped nor cut— and, according to theirsize and age,require from 1 to 4 hours simmering or bakmg. 'They are mostly served in slices, cold, intermingled with other winter salad-vegetables. See Brewing, Cattle, Salads, Sugar, &c. (also ante). BEET ROOT. See Beet. BEE'TLE (be'tl). Syn. Scar'abI*, Scae'- ABEEf* (-be) ; SCAEABJE'US, L. ; EsCARBOT, Scaeabee, Fr.; Kafer, Ger.; Betel, Sa.x. In zoology, the common name of an extensive genus of insects {scarabre'us, Linn.), of nu- merous species. It is also popularly applied » ‘ Root of plenty.’ 7 ‘ Root of scarrity.’ * For other synonynies, see antb et infra.