DYSPNCEA—EAU. 537 i gestion, clay-coloured stools, and a feeling of j oppression after food has been taken, it acts j with almost specific certainty. When, how- ever, the liver begins to assume its healthy action, its employment shonld be discontinued, 1 as it will then produce all the symptoms of ’ regurgitation of bile into the stomach. This I state will l)e readily recognised as a favorable I omen of returning power.'^ (Dr. Allnatt.) j DYSPNffl'A. Difficulty of breathing. It is I generally symptomatic of some other affections. I When it occurs in persons of a nervous or irri- i table habits of body, perfect quiet, a semi- recumbent posture, fresh air, and some small I doses of ether, ammonia, or opium, will generally I effect a cure. Those of a full habit require i aperients and depletion. To prevent attacks ' of the kind, excess in eating and drinking, and the use of stimulants, should be avoided. ; DYSU"RIA. [L.] Syn. Dys'uey. Difficult i urination. It is generally symptomatic of disease of the kidneys, bladder, or urethra. The treatment depends on the exciting cause. 1 EAR. In anatomy and physiology, the organ i of hearing. It consists primarily of three parts—the external ear, the middle ear or ] tympanum, and the internal ear or labyrinth. i The essential part of this very complicated i organ is the ‘ auditory nerve,’ numerous fila- ments of which are distributed over the mem- , brane which lines the spiral chambers of the 1 ^labyrinth.’ This membrane is a ‘sac,’ en- I closing liquid; it is also surrounded by liquid, I which intervenes between it and the bony walls of the spiral chambers. The impression of the vibrations produced in this liquid on ! the ‘ auditory filaments,’ causes the sensation ' of sound. The ‘ external ear,’ which consists I of an expanded, trumpet-shaped cartilaginous structure, and a tube leading to the ‘ internal 1 ear,’ collects and concentrates the sonorous vi- i brations on the membrane stretched across the ‘tympanum’ {‘membrana tympani’). The vibrations of this elastic membrane are com- municated to a chain of little bones, called respectively the ‘hammer’ or ‘malleus* the ‘anvil’ or 'incus,* and the ‘stirrup’ or 'stapes,* which is attached to the oval-shaped mem- brane {‘fenestra ovalis*) stretched across an opening into the ‘ labyrinth.’ On the other side of this oval membrane, and filling the cavity of the labyrinth, are, first, the liquid, and, secondly, the membranous sac on which ramify the ‘auditory filaments’ previously described. Thus is a communication established between the vibrations of an external body, say a violin string, and the vibrations of the membrane containing ‘auditory filaments.’ Sonorous waves first agitate the tympanic membrane, which agitates the little bones, which agitate the labyrinthine liquid, which agitates the labyrinthine membrane, and here presses on the nerve-filaments. The process is really more complicated than this; but this is a general outline, which must suffice, Inflammation of Ear. Syn. Otitis, L. This affection, wdien it attacks the internal part of the ear, is generally accompanied with confusion of sound, deafness, and more or less fever. It is most frequent among children, and is commonly produced by exposure to draughts of cold air, and, occasionally, by foreign matters, as cherry-stones, insects, &c., having got into the external ear. In such cases, the removal of the offensive matter, and due attention to warmth and cleanliness, with a dose of laxative medicine, wfill be all the treatment required. The pain may generally be relieved by throwing warm water into the ear by means of a syringe, and fomenting the surrounding parts with decoction of poppy- heads and chamomile flowers. Should this treatment not succeed, a drop or two of lauda- num, with one drop of oil of cloves and a little oil of almonds, may be dropped in the ear, and a piece of cotton wool introduced afterwards. Cases of acute inflammation of the internal ear are occasionally met wdth in adults, which assume a very serious character, and demand the most careful treatment. See Deafness. Earache. Pain in the ear may arise from various causes, amongst which, in the absence of organic disease, cold, and that peculiar derangement of health popularly called ‘ ner- vousness,’ are the most common. In the one case, the proper remedy is w^armth; in the other, the attention should be directed to the restoration of the body to the healthy standard. EARTHS. In chemistry, a natural group of metallic oxides. The principal earths are baryta, strontia, lime, magnesia, alumina, berylla or glucina, yttria, zirconia, and thoria. The first four are termed alkaline eaeths ; ^ the remainder, together with the oxides of the very rare metals erbium, terbium, norium, cerium, lanthanum, and didymium, constitute the EAETHS PEOPEE. Prior to the splendid discoveries of Sir H. Davy in electro-chemistry, the several earths were regarded as elementary or undecomposable bodies, instead of the oxides of metals, which, from their peculiar cha- racters, are obtained with difficulty. The term earth was very loosely applied by the older chemical and pharmaceutical writers, and the practice is still common among the vulgar at the present day. Thus, absoebent EARTH (chalk); alhminohs e., aegillaceohs E. (alumina) ; bolae e. (bole) j bone-e. (phos- phate of lime); fullee’s e. (an absorbent clay); HEAVY E. (baryta); Japan e., or teeea Japonica (catechu); sealed e. (bole), &c., are names even now frequently encountered both in trade and in books. EAU. (Pr.) W’ater. This word, like its English synonym, is applied to numerous sub- stances, differing in their composition, sensible properties, and uses, of which the following are a few useful examples:—Eau douce, fresh or river water; Eau de mee, sea or salt ! 1