BENZOIC ALCOHOL—BENZOINS. 305 '' odour when gently heated. Speemaceti, spe- cially prepared for the purpose, is also an occasional adulterant, easily detected by its insolubility and other well-known proper- ties. All these substances either destroy or I lack the proper crystalline form of benzoic acid, which is one of the best proofs of its purity. They also greatly increase its sp. gr. Phys. ejf. These are those of a stimulant, whose “ action is principally directed to the i mucous surfaces, especially the aerian mem- brane.’’^ In its passage through the system it is converted into hippuric acid, and passes off by the kidneys under the form of a hip- purate; but, according to Keller, without al- j tering the normal proportion of uric acid and I urea in the urine. Its local action is that of I a mild acrid. Uses, <^c. It was formerly highly esteemed as an expectorant, and was much used in chro- ! nic bronchial affections.^ At the present time, : its chief use, in medicine, is as an ingredient in the compound tincture of camphor {^paregoric elixir) of the pharmacopoeia. It has been em- ! ployed, by Mr. Alex. Ure, in gouty and lithic 1 diathesis, accompanied with the formation of ' ‘chalk-stones ’ or uric gravel; but its value, in these cases, is very doubtful.—Dose. 10 to 30 gr., , dissolved in water by the aid of a little am- I monia or potassa; in old coughs, &c. See Acidimetey, Benzoate, Benzoin, Ben- zoYLE, Cinnamic Acid, Succinic Acid, the respective bases, &c. Anhy'drous Benzoic Acid. Syn. Ben'zoate I OF ben'zoyle (Gerh.). Prep. From oxychloride of phosphorus and benzoate of soda, or chloride of benzoyle and benzoate of soda, in the man- ner noticed under Oeganic Acids. On wash- ! ing the mixture with boiling water, the AN- I HYDEOUS ACID sinks like a heavy oil, and crys- I tallises on cooling. Prop., ^c. Crystals, beautiful oblique prisms ; 1 fuses at Fahr.; soluble in alcohol and in j ether; insoluble in water, but gradually con- verted into ‘ hydrated ’ or ‘ common benzoic acid,’ when boiled in it. BENZOTC AL'COHOL. A peculiar oily fluid, discovered by M. Cannizzaro, and obtained by the action of an alcoholic solution of potassa on hydruret of benzoyle (pure oil of bitter al- monds). It is heavier than water, boils at 400° Fahr., and in its* chemical properties and deportment resembles the other alcohols. By distillation along with acetic and sulphuric acid it is converted into a heavy ‘compound ether,’ which boils at 410°, and has a very aro- matic pear-like odour. See Alcohols (in I Chemistry)? BENZOIN' (-zoyn';"* -z5'-m). Syn. Gum- benzoin*];* BEN'jAMINf*, GUM-B.f*; BeN- zoi'NUM (Ph. L., E., & D.), Ben'zoe (Ph. L. ^ Pereira’3 ''Mat. Med. ^ Therap.,’ ii. 688. * “1 liave repeatedly tried it, but have seldom seen benefit result from its use. I have more frequently seen it avfitiieiit than relieve the cough.” (Pereira, Id., ii. 689.) * Page 87. o ^ / See Benzoine (infik). 1788, Ph. D. 1826), A'sa DUL'cisf, L.; Ben- join, Fr.; Benzoe, Ger. The “ balsam flow- ing from incisions in the bark” of “ styrax benzoin” (Dryand.), a tree growing in Su- matra, Borneo, Siam, and Java, “ hardened by exposure to the air.” (Ph. L.) ® That of com- merce is usually imported here from Singapore, Penang, Bombay, Calcutta, or other ports in India or the Indian sea. The finer kinds come to us under the form of brittle masses consist- ing of a mixture of brown, red, and white tears, grains, or almond-like pieces, the palest being most esteemed; the inferior kinds (ben- zoiNUM IN soe'tis), as brown or reddish-brown lumps, mixed with pieces of wood, bark, &c. Prop., ^c. Odour agreeable, and somewhat like that of vanilla, but more balsamic; frac- ture conchoidal; lustre greasy; sp. gr. 1*063 to 1*092. It fuses at a gentle heat, and ex- hales white fumes which, on condensation, are found to be benzoic acid contaminated with a little volatile oil. Alcohol dissolves the larger portion of it, ether much less, and the volatile and fixed oils only a little. It contains from 9g to 18, or (occasionally) nearly 20g®, of ben- zoic acid, according to the quality. It burns with an agreeable odour. The resin and its alcoholic solution strike a bright red colour with oil of vitriol; and a green colour with chloride of iron. Uses, 8^c. It is chiefly employed in perfu- mery, and as an ingredient in incense, fumi- gating pastilles, &c.; also in court-plaster, in certain cosmetics, and to scent the varnish used for snuff-boxes, walking-sticks, &c. As a medi- cine, its general effects resemble those of the other true balsams, and of benzoic acid.—Dose. 5 or 6 to 20, or even 30 gr., in powder, and usually in combination with some other remedy; chiefly in chronic pulmonary and bronchial affections, when occurring in torpid habits, and unaccom- panied by inflammatory symptoms or gastric irritation. Also as a fumigation in the same diseases, hooping-cough, &c. Like benzoic acid, it is used to prevent rancidity in ointments, pom- mades, and other fatty preparations. See Ben- zoic Acid, Benzoine, Fat, Milk, Ointments, POMMADES, TiNCTUEES, &C. BEN'ZOINE (-zo-in).’ Syn. Cam'phoe of Oil of bittee-almonds ; Benzoi'na, L. A substance obtained by the action of alkalies and alkaline earths on the crude oil of bitter almonds. The pure oil (‘hydruret of ben- zoyle’), with which it is isomeric, does not yield it unless hydrocyanic acid be present. Prep. 1. From the matter left in the re- * “Concrete (balsamic—Pli. E.) exudation.” (Ph. D.) ® Stoltze. 7 This orthography and accentuation appear necessary to distinguish this substance from benzoin, the balsamic resin previously noticed. In Mayne’s "Expos. Lex.,’' which professes, on its title-page, to give " the correct pronunciation, &c.,” henzide, henzo-, henzoe, benzoin, benzoine, &c., occur ucithoul any marks of accent or quantity; and of the others in ‘ Benz-’, several are either incorrectly or imperfectly marked, or exhibit an objec- tionable or unusual orthography. Tliese remarks also apply to thousands of otlier words in the "Expos. Lex." 20