1361 ZINC-AMYL—ZIRCONIA. 4. {Commercial.) The crude sulphate of ziiic (white coppeeas, or white viteiol, of the shops) is prepared by roasting native sul- phuret of zinc (zinc blende) in a reverberatory furnace, exposing the calcined mass to the air and humidity for some time, then lixiviat- ing it, and evaporating the resulting solution until it forms a white semicrystalline mass on | cooling. i Prop. Pure sulphate of zinc forms inodo-! rous, colourless, transparent, quadrangular i prisms, closely resembling in appearance those ' of Epsom salt, which effloresce slightly in the i air, and contain 7 equiv. of water; it has a | slightly acidulous .and very styptic metallic i taste; the crystals dissolve in 2*^ parts of cold j and in less than their own weight of boiling water; they are insoluble in alcohol. The | crude sulphate of zinc of commerce (white i viteiol) occurs in irregular granular masses, which somewhat resemble loaf sugar. Pur. “ Crystals.” “ It is soluble in water. The precipitate with ammonia is white, and is redissolved if the test be added in excess. What is throwm down by either chloride of barium qr acetate of lead is not dissolved by dilute nitric acid. What is precipitated by sesquicarbonate of ammonia from 100 gr. of this salt, dissolved in water, is reduced, at a high temperature, to 27'9 gr. of oxide of zinc.” (Ph. L.) “ When a solution of this salt, in 6 of water, is boiled with a little nitric acid, and a solution of ammonia is then added until the oxide of zinc at first precipitated is all redis- solved, no yellow precipitate remains, or a trace only, and the solution is colourless.” (Ph. E.) Uses. In medicine, as a ionic, antispasmodic, &c. j in doses of 1 to 2 gr., twice daily; as an emetic, 10 to 30 gr. In large doses it is 2)oisonous. It has been employed with benefit in dyspepsia, fluor albus, chorea, epilepsy, hooping-cough, and other convulsive and ner- vous affections, generally combined with bit- ters, foxglove, hemlock, henbane, or opium. As an emetic, it acts almost immediately, and is therefore well suited to empty the stomach at the commencement of a fit of ague, and in cases of poisoning, &c. It is also extensively used externally, to form astringent and re- pellent collyria, injections and lotions. Vale”rianate of Zinc. Sxjn. Zinci vale- ElANAS, L. Prep. (Ph. D.) Valerianate of \ soda, oz., and sulphate of zinc, 2 oz. 7 dr., \ are each separately dissolved in distilled water, j 1 pint; the solutions are then heated to 200° | Eahr., mixed, and the resulting crystals skim- med off'; the liquid is next evaporated at a temperature not higher than 200°, until it j measures 4 fl. oz., the crystals, as they form, being removed from the surface; the salt thus obtained is steeped, for an hour, in distilled water, just sufficient to cover it, after which the whole is transferred to a paper filter, on , which it is at first drained, and then dried at j a heat not exceeding 100°. Prop., 8fc. Brilliant white, pearly scales; very light; astringent; smells strongly of valerianic acid; only slightly soluble in cold water, more so in hot water, and freely soluble in alcohol and ether; exposure to heat rapidly decon|poses it; exposure to the air also decom- poses it, but more slowly. It is regarded as i powerfully antispasmodic and tonic. Dose. I 1 to 3 gr., thrice daily, made into _ pills; in neuralgia, tic douloureux, nervous headaches I (more particularly hemicrania), hysteria, pal- ' pitation of the heart, vertigo, chorea, epilepsy, &c. Obs. Butyeate op zinc, scented with valerianic acid, which is often sold for the I above compound, may be detected by distilling it with sulphuric acid; the distillate, tested I with a strong solution of acetate of copper, i gives a bluish-white precipitate if it contains butyric acid. The valerianate is distinguished from the other salts of zinc by its extreme lightness. ZmC-AM'YL. See AiiYL. ZINC-E'THYL. A curious liquid body, discovered by Dr. Erankland, and formed, along with iodide of zinc, when iodide of ethyl is heated with pure zinc in a sealed glass tube. The mixed white product, by distil- lation in a current of hydrogen, yields pure zinc-ethyl. It is a highly volatile liquid, having a rather disagreeable odour, and so rapidly decomposed by contact with the air that it takes fire. Water resolves it into hydeide of ethyl, and other products. ZINC-ME'THYL. Obtained by the action of zinc upon iodide of methyl, as zinc-ethyl. It takes fire on coming in contact with the air. ZINCING. Syn. Zinking. Vessels of cop- per and brass may be covered with a firmly adherent layer of pure zinc, by boiling them in a solution of chloride of zinc, pure zinc turnings being at the same time present in considerable excess. The same object may be effected by means of zinc and a solution of sal ammoniac or caustic potassa. The variety of zinced iron commonly known by the name of ‘ galvanized ieon ^ is pre- pared by immersing the sheets of metal, pre- viously scoured and cleaned with dilute hydro- chloric acid, in a bath of melted zinc covered with powdered sal ammoniac, and moving them about until they are sufficiently coated. ZINCOG'KAPHY. An art closely resembluig LiTHOGEAPHY, in which plates of zinc are substituted for slabs of stone. ZIR'CON. See Gems. ZIRCO'NIA. 8yn. Oxide of zieconium. A white pulverulent earth, discovered in the MiNEEAL JAEGON or ziECON of Cevlon, by Klaproth, in 1789. It has since been found in the hyacinth. Prep. The stone is calcined and thrown into cold water, and then powdered in an agate mortar; the powder is mixed with 9 parts of pure potassa, and the mixture pro- 86