629 EXTRACTIVE—EYE. Obs. Ill addition to the preparations given I above, there are many others which are often 1 called ‘extracts.’ These may be grouped 1 under the following heads :— Concentra'ted Extracts. Syn. Resinoids. 1 Pharmaceutical preparations of more or less ' value, largely employed by the American phy- ! sicians who style themselves ‘ eclectics.’ They are supposed to present in the most I concentrated form the medicinal virtues of the , plants from which they are derived. See ; Resinoids. : Fltt'id Extracts. St/n. Extracta eltjida, Extracta liquida, L. This name has been I applied in modern pharmacy to various prepa- I rations differing materially from each otner in their degree of ffuidity and concentration. , Some of these have been already noticed, and others will be found under one or other of 1 their synonyms. Much contusion would be j avoided by confining the name ‘ fluid ex- , TRACT ’ to those preparations only which differ from the ordinary officinal extracts in being I ill the liquid form; whilst others of a like 1 character, but of less consistence or concen- I tration, might be conveniently classed under the general denomination of ‘ liquors ’ (li- I QUORES, L.). The various condensed prepa- rations of vegetable substances, now common I in trade, professedly several times stronger , than the common decoctions, infusions, I and TINCTURES, might be simply and advan- I tageously distinguished by the addition of I ‘ CONCENTRATED ’ to their names. Tinctures ! made with rectified spirit, and of (say) at : least 8 times the usual strength, might be appropriately termed ‘ essences.’ See De- I cocTioN, Essence, Extract, Infusion, Oleo- I RESIN, Solution, Syrup, Tincture, &c. I Perfu'matory Extracts. See Extrait. Pulver'ulent Extracts. Syn. Dried ex- I TRACTS, Dessicated e., Saccharated e. ; i Extracta pulyerata, E. sicca, E. cum 1 SACCHARO, L. Prep. 1. Ordinary soft extract I of the drug, 4 parts; white sugar, (in powder), , 1 part; mix, and dry by exposure in a warm I situation; lastly, reduce the mass to powder, I and if it weighs less than 4 parts, triturate it I with more powdered sugar until its weight is equal to the original weight of the extract used in its preparation. The strength of the ex- 1 tract thus continues unchanged, i 2. (Ph. Bor.) As the last, but using pow- dered sugar of milk in lieu of cane sugar. 1 3. (Gauger.) Alcoholic extract, 3 parts, I rectified spirit, 1 part, are triturated together in a porcelain mortar until thoroughly incor- porated, when white sugar (in powder), 15 oz., ' is gradually added, and the two carefully and completely blended together; the mixture is : dried as before, and more sugar added until the whole weighs exactly 18 oz. Six grains represent one grain of the unprepared extract. Obs. The above are admirable preparations, intended chiefly to render the perishable ex- tracts of the narcotic plants (extracta nar- cotica) less liable to suffer by age. See Ex- tract OF Aconite (Saccharated), &c. EXTRACTIVE. Syn. Extractive prin- ciple. This substance was discovered by Fourcroy, and presumed by him to be the common basis of all extracts. It has since been proved by Chevreul and other chemists to be a heterogeneous compound, varying in composition with the plant from which it is extracted. Extractive has a brown colour, or one becoming so in the air, it speedily putre- fies, and becomes oxidized, and is rendered insoluble by long exposure to air, and by re- peated solutions and evaporations. In its unaltered state it is soluble in water and in alcohol, is nearly insoluble in ether, and is precipitated from its solutions by the acids and metallic oxides. With alumina it forms the basis of several brown dyes. EXTRAIT. [Fr.] Literally an ‘ extract.’ Among perfumers, ‘ extraits ’ are mostly spiri- tuous solutions of the essential oils or odorous principles of plants and other fragrant sub- stances. The French commonly apply the term to any concentrated spirit, either simple or com- pound. In the shops of the Parisian perfumers upwards of 60 preparations of the kind are dis- tinguished by this name. The extracts of jas- mine, JONQUIL, MAY-LILY, ORANGE BLOSSOMS, VIOLETS, and other like flowers of delicate perfume, are obtained by agitating and di- gesting the ‘ huiles ’ and ‘ pommades ’ of the flowers with the purest rectified spirit, in the manner described under Scented Spirits esprit s’). This process is repeated with fresh oil or pommade until the spirit is ren- dered sufficiently fragrant. The other ex- tracts (both simple and compound) are made by the common methods of infusion and dis- tillation. See Essence, Extract, Spirit, &c. EYE. In anatomy eccAphysiology, the organ of vision. Though a minute description of the human eye would be out of place in this work, a slight sketch of its structure must be given to make some of our pathological and surgical articles intelligible. A bony cavity, termed the ‘ orbit,’ contains the ‘ globe of the eye,’ with its muscles, nerves, and vessels. The ex- ternal appendages of the eje are the ‘ eyebrows’ (‘ supercilia’), the ‘ eyelids’ {palpebrce'), and the ‘ lachrymal apparatus.’ The former are arches of hair covering the ‘ supra-orbital ridge’ of the ‘ frontal bone.’ They serve to prevent the sweat from falling into the eyes, and act as a shade against strong light. The eyelids are two thin curtains, fringed with stiff hair (•' eyelashes,’ or ‘ cilia’), which serve to keep external bodies out of the eyes, and moderate the influx of light. Within the lids, near their edges, are numerous glandular bodies (‘ Meibo- mian glands’), which secrete a lubricating fluid. The lachrymal apparatus consists of a gland, situated in a small depression of the frontal bone, near the ‘ external canthus,’ or outward joining of the eyelids with seven