1051 PERCOLATION. ercliloric acid pass over and condense in the 2ceiver. Prop., ^'C. A colourless liquid, of the sp. r. 17, which fumes slightly in the air, is very reedy of moisture, and distils unchanged at bout 397° Fahr. It is a more stable com- jound than chloric acid, and does not inflame t’ganic substances. I PERCOLA'TION. Syn. Method oe dis- jLACEMENT. A method of extracting the pluble portion of any substance in a divided .-ate, by causing the menstruum to filter or [rain through it. The ^sparging’ of the jcotch brewers is an example of the applica- jon of this principle on the large scale. In harmacy, the ‘ method of displacement is jequently adopted for the preparation of nctures, infusions, &c., and is, in some re- jects, superior to digestion or maceration. I The solid materials, usually in coarse or mo- srately fine powder, are moistened with a ifficiency of the solvent to form a thick pulp. 1 twelve hours, or frequently without delay, le mass is put into a cylinder of glass, porce- in, or tinned iron, open at both ends, but )structed at the lower end by a piece of calico • linen, tied tightly over it as a filter; and le pulp being packed by pressure, ranging to degree with different articles, the re- ainder of the solvent is poured into the upper )rtion of the cylinder, and allowed gradually ' percolate. In order to obtain the portion ■ the fluid which is absorbed by the residuum, i additional quantity of the solvent is poured to the cylinder, until the tincture which has issed through equals in amount the spirit iginally prescribed. The spirit employed Ir this purpose is then recovered, for the most i rt, by pouring over the residuum as much iter as there is spirit retained in it, which ay be easily known by an obvious calcula- L)u in each case. The method of percolation now preferred by all who have made suffi- ent trial of it to apply it correctly(Ph. E.) The first portion of liquid obtained by the nethod of displacement" is always in a state high concentration. In general, it is a nple solution of the soluble ingredients of e crude drug in the fluid employed. But metimes the solvent, if compound, is resolved to its component parts, and the fluid which isses through at any given time is only one these, holding the soluble parts of the drug solution. Thus, if diluted alcohol be poured er powder of myrrh, in the cylinder of the ■rcolator, the fluid which first drops into the ceiver is a solution of an oily consistence, liefly composed of resin and volatile oil, dis- Ived in alcohol. In like manner, when the )wder of gall-nuts is treated in the same way hydrated sulphuric ether, two layers of fluid e obtained, one of whicli is a highly concen- ated solution of tannin in the water of the her, and the other a weak solution of the me principle in pure ether. In all cases, erefore, in which it is not otherwise directed, it is absolutely necessary to agitate the several portions of the liquid obtained by percolation together, in order to ensure a product of uni- form strength or activity. Several forms of displacement apparatus are employed by different operators. A simple and useful one is that figured in the margin. It has also the advantage of being inexpensive, and may be made by any worker in tin plate. a. Percolator h. Stand. c. Receiver. d. Menstruum. e. Substance operated on. /. Calico strainer. In operating on some substances it is found advantageous to hasten the process by pressure. This may be effected by any of the methods adopted for that purpose, and already de- scribed under Filteation. An ingenious little apparatus, which is well adapted for small quantities, is shown in the engr. By pouring mercury or water through (e), into the bottle (e), the air in the latter suffers compression, and acts in a corresponding manner on the percolating liquor in (a). The whole of the joints must be made ai r-tight. rt. Percolator. b. Tube connecting it with— c. A double - necked bottle containing— d. Mercury. e. I’eeding-tube. /. Receiver. g. Stop-cock to regu- late or arrest the pres- sure of air on the con- tents of the cylinder («). The ‘ method of displacement," although apparently simple, requires for its successful application no inconsiderable amount of expe- rience and skill in manipulation. The prin- cipal points to be attended to are—the reduc- tion of the substance to the proper state of com- minution (neither too coarse nor too fine),— the due regulation of the period of maceration according to the hardness, density, and tex- ture of the substance; and, more important still,—the proper packing of the ingredients in the cylinder. On the correct performance of the last the success of the process mainly de- pends. Some substances require considerable pressure to be used, whilst others, when even tightly packed, scarcely permit the fluid to pass through them. When the material is too loosely packedy the menstruum passes through