170 xiNILIC ACID. sent) is then decanted and carefully evapo- rated over an open fire until ‘ acrid fumes ^ legin to be disengaged, when it is again de- canted or filtered; the clear liquor, or filtrate, is next treated with potash or milk of lime, in excess, by which the bases—chiefly ‘ aniline ^ and ‘ chinoline are liberated under the form of a brownish oil; the whole of the resulting mixture is now submitted to distillation, the portion which passes over at or about 360° Fahr.,and which consists chiefly of ‘ crude ani- line,' being collected separately j the product is purified by rectification and re-collection, once or oftener, at the same temperature, and lastly, by fresh treatment with hydrochloric acid and careful distillation with excess of polassa or milk of lime, as before. 2. From niteobenzole :—a. (Zinin.) An alcoholic solution of nitrobenzole, after saturation with ammonia, is treated with sulphuretted hy- drogen, until, after some hours, a precipitation of sulphur takes place; the brown liquid is then repeatedly saturated with fresh sulphuretted hydrogen, until no more sulphur separates, the reaction being aided by occasionally heating or distilling the mixture; an excess of acid is next added, and, after filtering the liquid, and the removal of the ^ alcohol" and ' unaltered nitrobenzole’ by ebullition or distillation, the residuum is lastly distilled with caustic po- tassa, in excess. The aniline found in the receiver may be rendered quite pure by form- ing it into OXALATE OF ANILINE, repeatedly crystallising the salt from alcohol, and finally distilling it with excess of caustic potassa, as before. The following is a cheaper and more con- venient process; anJ probably, the best, or one of the best, that has yet been invented for obtaining aniline:— b. (M. Bechamps.) From nitrobenzole dis- tilled along with basic protacetate of iron ; or, what is better—by distilling a mixture of iron- filings, 2 parts, and acetic acid, 1 part, with about an equal volume of nitrobenzole, the re- action being assisted, whenever the eflervescence flags, by the application of a gentle heat. The liquor found in the receiver consists of aniline and water, from which the first, forming the lower portion, is obtained, after s\ifficient re- pose in a ^ separator ’; or more easily, by adding a very little ether, which by dissolving in the aniline, causes it to rise to the surface, when it is at once decanted. A very spacious glass or earthenware retort must be employed in the process, as the mass swells up violently ; and it must be connected with the receiver, on the small scale, by means of a ‘ Liebig’s con- denser,’ and, on the large scale, by an ordinary ‘ worm-pipe ’ and ‘ tub,’ kept in good action by a sufficient flow of cold water. 3. From indigo :—Powdered indigo is added to a boiling and highly concentrated solution of caustic potassa, as long as it dissolves and hy- drogen gas is extricated; the resulting brown- ish-red liquid is evaporated to di’yness, and the residuum is submitted to destructive distilla- tion in a retort, which, owing to the intumes- cence of the mass should be strong and spa- i cious. The aniline is found in the ‘ receiver’ under the form of a ‘brownish oil’ mixed with •! ammoniacal liquor, and by separation from the latter, and subsequent rectification, is obtained | nearly colourless. It may be further purified, \ as in the preceding processes.—Prod. 18 to 20g of the indigo employed. 4. By fusing, with the proper precautions, a mixture of isatine and hydrate of potassa (both in powder); a retort connected with a well-cooled receiver, being employed as the apparatus. Said by Prof. A. W. Hofmann and Muspratt, to be “ the most eligible process for isolating” aniline.^ 5. From anthranilic acid mixed with pow- dered glass or sand, and rapidly heated in a retort. G. By treating an alcoholic solution of ben- zine with a little zinc and hydrochloric acid. 7. By heating phenyl-alcohol with ammonia in sealed tubes. Ratio. In the first process the aniline is merely separated from the other matters with i which it is associated; in the second, the nitro- t benzole assumes 2 atoms of hydrogen and loses < 4 atoms of oxygen, tlye reaction being— Nitrobenzole. Aniline. In the third process, the ‘ indigo-blue ’ is fii’st i converted into ‘chrysanilic acid,’ which gra- dually changes into ‘ anthranilic acid,’ and this, by destructive distillation, yields aniline, and > carbonic acid which remains united to the po- ^ ■ Cu H; NO, = H, N + 2CO2 Indigo-blue. Aniline. A nearly similar change occurs in process 4:— C16 H5 = Cia H- N + 4CO2 + Hs Isatine. Aniline. the additional 4HO being derived from the hydrate of potassa. In process 7, the changes are similar to those which occur in the pro- i duction of other amines. Prop., (^c. A thin, oily, colourless liquid, 1 with a faintly vinous odour, and a hot and 1 aromatic taste; very volatile in the air; 1 miscible in all proportions with alcohol and 1 ether; very slightly soluble in water; neutral I to ordinary test paper, but exhibiting an alka- 1 line reaction to dahlia-petal infusion and ' paper; dissolves camphor, sulphur, and phos- I phorus, and coagulates albumen; possesses a high refractive power; and precipitates the oxides of iron, zinc, and alumina, from solutions of their salts, and neutralises the acids, like ammonia. With the acids it forms numerous ' crystallisable compounds of great beauty, I and which are easily formed, and are precisely il analogous to the corresponding salts of am- . ’ Muspratt’s “Chemislry," i, 599. M