SILVER. 1198 acetate of soda to saturate all the nitric acid existing in the liquor, either in the free state or combined with the silver. When the alloy contains lead, shown hy the precipitated chlo- ride being partly soluble in water, it may eittier be laminated and subjected to the action of acetic acid before solution in the nitric acid, or the test-solution of chloride of soda should he replaced hy one of chloride of lead, (139*355 gr. of the latter are equiv. to 58*732 gr. of the former). The presence of stjlphtj- BET OF SILVER is detected whilst dissolving the sample in nitric acid, by the black flakes which may be observed floating about in the liquor in an insoluble state. These flakes may he dissolved hy fuming nitric acid, or by add- ing pure concentrated sulphuric acid to the solution, which should be then heated for about i hour in a steam bath. When thus treated, the precipitate produced by the test-liquor represents the whole of the silver contained in the alloy. Uses, 8fc. Metallic silver, unless in a state of very minute division, has no action on the human body. A plate of siver is ordered, in the Ph. L., as a test of the presence of nitric acid in the acetic and phosphoric acids; and metallic silver (preferably granulated) is em- ployed hy the other Colleges in the prepara- tion of the nitrate. Its numerous applica- tions in the arts are well known. The stan- dard SILVER of England contains 111 parts of silver and 9 parts of copper. Concluding remarks. The researches of Tillet, D’Arcet, and Gay-Lnssac, have clearly shown that the per-centage of silver in an alloy, as indicated by cupellation, is always below its real richness in that metal, owing to loss in the process; and that the cupelled button always retains a trace of lead and copper, the precise quantity of which is variable. The following Table exhibits the additions to be made on this score, when the quantity assayed {assay pound) is 20 gr.:— Weight after cupellation. Actual rich- ness in pure Silver. Per-centage richness in ptire Silver. 19*979 20 100 18*95 19 95 17*92 18 90 16*917 17 85 15*914 16 80 14*91 15 75 13*905 14 70 12*905 13 65 11*906 12 60 10*906 11 55 9*906 10 50 7*921 8 40 5*948 6 30 3*949 4 20 1*982 2 10 In assaying lead ores very poor in silver, the best quantity to be taken for cupellation ii 500 gr.; and from that quantity *0148 o silver, including compensation for loss, repre sents one ounce of silver to the ton. A cupel may absorb its own weight of lead. I; the quantity of lead to be absorbed is mon considerable, another cupel may be turned' topsy-turvy, and the cupel in which the assaj is to be made may he placed upon it.” ^ For the recovery or reduction of silver from the chloride and its other compounds, several! methods are employed:— a. The washed chloride is placed in a zinc or iron cup, along with a little water strongly acidulated with sulphuric acid, or in a glash' or porcelain cup along with a zinc plate; the whole may then he left to itself for soin« hours or, to hasten the reduction, gentlj heated, or even boiled; the precipitated silver is washed with pure water, and dried. b. (Hornung.) Digest the chloride will some liquor of ammonia andjowre copper filings for 24 hours, then wash and dry the powder. c. (Levol.) The washed chloride is inixeC with an equal weight of sugar, and the mix ture is digested in an excess of a moderateh strong solution of caustic potassa, with occa sional agitation for 24 hours; or, the whole r boiled for some time; the reduced silver i: washed with distilled water. d. (Mohr.) The dry chloride is mixed witl l-3rd of its weight of powdered black resin and moderately heated in a crucible until th( flame ceases to have a greenish-blue colour the heat is then suddenly increased so as t( melt the metal into a button or ingot. e. (Gay-Lussac.) If the chloride, dry it and throw it, in successive portions, into twic( its weight of carbonate of potassa, fused in £ red-hot Hessian crucible; effervescence ensues and the pure silver subsides to the bottom.— If a SOLUBLE SALT, as the nitrate, acidulah the solution, and precipitate it by means of £. polished plate of copper ; the silver is then ob tained in the form of powder. The products of the above processes, wher the latter are carefully conducted, are chemi colly pure silver. Ac'etate of Silver. Syn. Argenti acetas L. Prep. By adding a solution of acetate oj potassa to a like solution of nitrate of silver washing the precipitate with cold water, re- dissolving it in a little hot water, and setting the solution aside to crystallize. Small colour less needles. Ammoni'uret of Silver. See Fulminating Silver (Berthollet’s, No. 1, page 672). Ammo''nio-chlo"ride of Silver. Syn. Ae- GENTI AMMONIO-CHLORIDUM, L. Prep. Add gradually, chloride of silver (recently precipi- tated and well-washed) to concentrated liquor of ammonia, as long as it is dissolved on agita- 1 See article Assaying; also Gay-Lussac’s elaborah memoir on the “Humid Assay of Silver.”