ESSENCE. 582 digest, and strain. Both the above are aro- matic and anti-flatulent. The first is commonly used as an adjunct to other medicines, espe- cially to purgatives for children. The second is a popular tonic and stomachic in the flatu- lent colic, dyspepsia, &c., of women and children. Dose. A few tlrops, on sugar. Essence of Er'got. See Liqtjoe of Eegot OF Eye. Essence of Ergot (Ethereal). Syn. Essentia EEGOT.E ETHEEEA, E. SECALIS COENUTI E., L. Prep. 1. (Mr. Lever.) Ergot (powdered), 2 oz.; rectified sulphuric ether, 2 fl. oz.; digest a week, express the tincture, Alter, and abandon the liquid to spontaneous evaporation; lastly, dissolve the residuum in ether, 1 fl. oz. This is an expensive and troublesome formula. The following modification of it is both simpler and less expensive. 2. Ergot (ground), 8 oz.; ether, 16 fi. oz. ; prepare a tincture as before, and by a gentle heat distil off the ether in a retort connected with a well-cooled refrigerator, until 15 j^. oz. shall have passed over; continue the eva- poration at a reduced heat until the re- mainder of the ether has passed off; lastly, dissolve the residuum, as soon as cold, in ether, 4>fi. oz. Obs. Each fl. oz. represents 2 oz. of ergot. Dose. 10 to 30 drops as a parturifacient, talven on sugar; 3 to 5 drops as a hcemostatic and emraenagogue, in haemorrhages, floodings, &c. It possesses all the acrid, narcotic principle of the ergot, but less of the hseinostatic principle than the ordinary essence, whilst it is much more costly. Essence of Fen'nel. Syn. Essence of sweet FENNEL ; Essentia fceniculi, L. Prep. From oil of fennel {Foeniculum duke), as essence of ALLSPICE. Essence of Gen'tian. See Infusion of Gentian (Concentrated). Essence of Gin'ger. Syn. Concenteated TINCTUEE OF GINGEE, EsSENTIA ZINGIBEEIS, Tinctuea z. concenteata, L. Prep. 1. Un- bleached Jamaica ginger (bruised), 5 oz.; rec- tified spirit, 1 pint; digest a fortnight, press, and filter. 2. (Oxley’s ‘Concenteated essence of Jamaica gingee.’) The same as the pre- ceding, with the addition of a very small quan- tity of essence of cayenne. The above possess only about 4 times the strength of tincture of ginger (Ph. L.); and though vended in the shops as essence of ginger, scarcely deserve the name. 3. As No. 1 (next article, below), but using double the quantity of spirit. Very fine. 4. (Kitchener’s.) Ginger (grated), 3 oz.; yellow j)eel of lemon (fresh), 2 oz.; brandy, 1^ pint; digest 10 days. For culinary pur- poses, &c. See below. Essence of Ginger (Concentrated). Sxjn. Essentia zingibeeis concenteata. Prep. 1. Jamaica ginger (best unbleached, in coarse powder) and silicious sand, equal parts, are sprinkled with rectified spirit of wine, q. s. to perfectly moisten them, and after 24 hours the mass is placed in a ^percolator,' and after re- turning the first runnings 2 or 3 times, the receiver is changed, and more rectified spirit poured on gradually, and at intervals, as re- quired, until as much essence is obtained as there has been ginger employed. Obs. The quality of the product of the above fonnula is excellent, but the process is somewhat difficult to manage. The mass remaining in the percolator is treated with fresh spirit until exhausted, and the tincture so obtained is employed, instead of spirit, for making more essence with fresh ginger. The last portion of spirit in the waste mass may be obtained by adding a little water. Coarsely powdered charcoal is frequently used instead of sand, in which case the product has less colour; at the same time, however, a little of the flavour is lost. 2. (Wholesale.)—a. Best unbleached Jamaica ginger (as last), 12 lb. ; rectified spirit, 2^ gall, are digested together for 14 days, and the ex- pressed and strained tincture reduced by dis- tillation, in a steam or water bath, to exactly 1 gall.; it is next cooled, and transferred as quickly as possible into stoppered bottles, and the next day filtered. Obs. The product of the last formula is a most beautiful article, of immense strength, and the richest flavour. The assertion made by a recent writer on pharmacy, that ‘the product is very strong, but has lost some of the flavour of the ginger,’ is evidently made in ignorance of the preparation. We were the first to introduce and publish this formula, and have employed it for years on the most extensive scale, and can conscientiously assert that, for inexpensiveness, and the quality of the essence produced by it, it is unequalled by any other. The process, though apparently complicated, is, in reality, easily performed. The spu'it distilled over contains none of the fragrant or aromatic principles of the ginger; on the contrary, the little flavour it has re- ceived (apparently from a species of ethereal oil) is rather disagreeable than otherwise, and is better got rid of than retained in the essence. The spirit is used with advantage for preparing the common tincture of ginger, and several other articles. The cause of failure when this process is adopted is careless or awkward manipulation. When possible, hy- draulic pressure should be employed to express the tincture. 2 oz. of this essence are regarded as equivalent to 3 oz. of the finest ginger, being fully twenty times as strong as the ‘ tinctuhe OF gingee’ (Ph. L.). A single drop, swal- lowed, will almost produce suffocation. b. From ginger (as last), 24 lb.; rectified spirit, 6 gall.; make a tincture, as before, and reduce it by distillation to 1 gall.; then cool as quickly as possible out of contact with the air, and add, of the strongest rectified spirit of wine, 1 gall; lastly, filter, if required,