BEER. 294. fro’Tfi being fermented at a lower temperature, and the lost, also from the water employed being that usually denominated ‘hard’; whilst porter differs from either of these, because it is brewed from higher-dried malt. It is from causes like these, though apparently trivial to the unscientific and uninitiated, that the almost endless varieties of malt-liquor met with at the present day, originate. Materials, manvf.f Sfc. See Malt, Hops, Brewing, &c. Pur. The leading characteristics of good beer, to whatever variety it belongs, are trans^ parency, a fine colour, an agreeable semi-vinous fiavonr, and the property of remaining for several hours exposed in a glass or cup without becoming‘flat’ or ‘insipid.’ If t\\Q materials used were good, appropriate, and sufficient—if the brewing was skilfully conducted—if the liquor has been carefully ‘ stored’ in perfectly sweet casks or vessels in a suitable cellar for a sufficient time, and still maintains its natural purity, unsophisticated, unadulterated, this will almost always be the case. Hence colour, transparency, and flavour, and the power of resisting exposure, are tests of the purity and quality of beer, which should not be lightly treated. There are none more simple and effectual; and together with a good ‘ palate,’ and a close observance of its effects on the head, and on the stomach, will readily distin- guish ^pure’ and ^wholesome beer’ from ‘doc- tored’ and inferior liquor. If, therefore, we find a sample of beer possessing the above qualities and in ‘good condition,’ and on testing it for its alcohol and saccharine, find these substances in sucli quantities as fairly repre- sent the amount of malt which should have been used in the brewing of such a liquor, we may reasonably infer it, in the absence of proof to the contrary, to be pure ; because the object for which adulteration is practised— the saving of malt and hops—did not exist in this case. To demonstrate the purity of beer requires, however, an elaborate and trouble- some analysis, which can only be conducted by those accustomed to chemical operations. Good and pure beer should contain nothing but what exists in the malt, the hops, and the water from which it is brewed, or which is produced from them in the processes of ‘ mashing,’ ‘ fermentation,’ and ‘ maturation.’ Water, alcohol, a very small quantity of acetic acid, and a trace of saline matter, consisting chiefly of phosphates, are the only substances besides undecomposed saccharine and mucila- ginous matter, which should be found in pure malt-liquor. Adult. By the laws of England, which have existed with slight modifications since the days of Queen Anne, nothing is allowed to enter into the composition of beer but malt and hops. The Act 56 Geo. HI., cap. 58, provides that— 1. “No brewer, dealer, or retailer of beer, shall receive, or have in his possession, or i make, use, or mix with, or put into worts or beer, any liquoi’, extract, calx, or other material or preparation, for the purpose of darkening the I colour of worts or beer, nor any liquor, extract, calx, or other material or preparation, other ' than brown malt, ground or unground, as commonly used in brewing; or shall receive or have in his possession, or use, or mix with, or put into any worts or beer, any molasses, honey, liquorice, vitriol, quassia, cocculus In» dicus, grains of paradise, Guinea pepper, or opium, or any extract or preparation of molasses, honey, liquorice, vitriol, quassia, cocculus In^ dicus, grains of paradise. Guinea-pepper, or opium, or any article or preparation what- ^ soever for, or as a substitute for malt or hops, i upon pain that all such liquor, extract, calx, molasses, honey, vitriol, quassia, cocculus Indi- cus, grains of paradise. Guinea-pepper, opium, extract, article and preparation as aforesaid, and also the said worts and beer shall be for- feited, together with the casks, vessels, and other packages, and may be seized by any officer of excise; and such brewer of, dealer in, or retailer of beer, so offending shall, for each olfence, forfeit £200. 2. “No druggist, or vendor of, or dealer in drugs, or chemist, or other person whatever, | shall sell, send, or deliver to any licensed j brewer of, or dealer in, or retailer of beer, ; knowing him to be so licensed, or reputed to be so licensed, or to any other person, for, or on account of, or in trust for, or for the use of such brewer, dealer, or retailer, any colouring from whatever material made, or any other material or preparation, other than unground brown-malt, for the purpose of darkening the colour of worts or beer, or any liquor or preparation heretofore, or hereafter made use of for darkening the colour of worts or beer, or any molasses, or other articles as mentioned in the first section, for, or as a sub- >, stitute for malt or hops respectively; and if any ’ druggist, or vendor of, or dealer in drugs, or any chemist, or other person whatever shall so do, all such liquor called colouring, and ma- terial or preparation for the purpose aforesaid, and liquor and preparation used for darkening the colour of worts or beer, molasses, and article or preparation to be used as a substi- tute for malt or hops, shall be forfeited, and may be seized by an officer of excise, and the druggist, vendor, dealer, chemist, or other per- son so offending shall forfeit £500.” By the Act 1 Will. IV., c. 51, for the repeal of the ale and beer duties, it is enacted that— “No brewer shall have in his brewery, or in any part of his entered premises, or in any mill connected with such brewery, any raw or un- malted corn or grain ; and all unmalted corn or grain which shall be found in such brewing premises or mill, and all malted corn or grain with which such unmalted corn or grain may have been mixed, shall be forfeited, and may be seized by an officer, with all vessels or packages in which such raw or unmalted corn or grain shall be contained, or in which such