393 CARBON. tity of water until dissolved; the solution thus formed separates into two portions, the denser of which contains carbolate of potassa; this being separated by decantation, is decomposed by hydrochloric acid. The solution of cae- BOLic ACID which rises to the surface is digested with chloride of calcium, to remove water, and purified by distillation; the distillate, by re- frigeration, furnishes crystals of the acid, which must he drained, dried, and preserved from the air. 3. (Peefectly puee—Crookes.) From sa- licylic ACID. Mix intimately together equal weights of salicylic acid and powdered glass; introduce the mixture into a good German retort, and heat on a sand bath, gradually raising the heat till it becomes red-hot at the bottom. The vapour is condensed in any con- venient receiver. If the materials are per- fectly dry, it solidifies to a mass of crystals as soon as it condenses, hut if there he a trace of water present it remains liquid. The slower it distills over the lighter wifi, he the colour, while if a high temperature he employed it comes over nearly black. It may be rendered colourless and anhydrous by rectification over quicJclime. Prop. The crude carbolic acid of commerce is a dark tarry liquid, containing perhaps from ten to twenty different substances in a state of mechanical admixture. The pure anhydrous acid is in long, colourless, prismatic crystals, which rapidly deliquesce in moist air, and be- come converted into a colourless refractive liquid, having a faint odour of roses and tar. Carbolic acid is poisonous, and is a powerful antiseptic. Uses. The extraordinary antiseptic pro- perties of carbolic acid have long been known, but its extended use has been delayed, owing to the difficulty experienced in obtaining it in considerable quantities. It is now, however, principally owing to the labours of Dr. F. Grace Calvert, produced on a large scale, and this chemist has proposed its application to many valuable purposes. As a medical agent, it seems to have all the useful properties of creosote in an exalted degree, with some ])eculiar actions of its own, and is being applied with marked success in the Manchester Royal Infirmary and similar institutions, in cases of chronic diarrhcea, obstinate vomiting (even after creosote has failed), and as a dis- infecting wash for ill-conditioned ulcers and gangrenous sores. It has also been applied successfully in cases of foot-rot, a disease Avhich annually carries oft' large numbers of sheep. It has been employed for the pre- servation of gelatine solutions and preparations of size made with starch, fiour, and similar materials, and of skins and other animal sub- stances. It appears to act strongly as an anti- ferment, and Dr. Calvert states that it is one of the most powerful preventives of putre- faction with which he is acquainted. Com- mercial creosote is frequently nothing more than hydrated carbolic acid. See Ceeosote, PiCEic Acid. CAR'BON. Syn. Caebo'niiim, Cae'bo, L. ; Chaebon, Fr.; Kohlenstoff, Ger. An ele- mentary or simple non-metallic solid body, very widely diffused through nature. Its purest and rarest form is that of the diamond. Nearly pure, it occurs very abundantly in the forms of OEAPHITE and antheacite. In combination with oxygen, as CAEBONIC acid, it exists in the atmosphere and in the waters of most springs, also in limestone, marble, chalk, and dolomite. Combined with hydrogen, it enters largely into coal, peat, and lignite. It is an essential constituent of organic matter, and hence it has been termed the “ organic element.’^ Charcoal, lamp-black, and coke, are more or less pure forms of carbon. By strongly igniting lamp-black in a covered crucible, the element is obtained sufficiently pure for most chemical purposes. See Chae- COAL, Oeganic Bodies, &c. Chlo"rides of Carbon. Chlorine does not unite directly with carbon, but Faraday suc- ceeded in procuring several compounds be- tween these elements by the decomposition of Dutch liquid, a combination of carbon and hydrogen with chlorine. 1. Subchlo"eide of Caebon. Obtained by decomposing the protochloride, by causing it to pass several times through a tube heated to bright redness. It forms fine silky crystals, which may be sublimed in closed vessels with- out change. 2. Peotochlo"eide of Caebon. Obtained from the sesquichloride by subliming it repeat- edly through a tube filled withfragments of glass heated to redness. A transparent colourless liquid, with aromatic odour. 3. Sesquichlo"eide of Caebon. Obtained by exposing Dutch liquid with chlorine, in a glass vessel, to the direct rays of the sun, taking care to renew the chlorine as long as it is ab- sorbed. The liquid is ultimately converted into the sesquichloride of carbon, which is a white, crystalline, volatile substance. Oxychlo"ride of Carbon. Syn. Chlo"eo- CAEBONic acid, Phos'gene GAS. Equal mea- sures of carbonic oxide and chlorine are exposed to the direct rays of the sun ; they combine, and become condensed to half their volume. It is a colourless, suffocating gas, which is imme- diately decomposed by water into carbonic and hydrochloric acids. SuFphuret of Carbon. Syn. Sul'phide of CAEBON, BiSUL'pHUEET OF C., BiSUL'PHIDE OF c., Cae'bueet of sulphue, Sulphue al- cohol; Caebo'nii sulphuee'tum, C. Bisul- phuee'tum, &c., L. a volatile ethereal liquid, formed of the elements carbon and sulphur. Of the many synonyms given above, “ bisul- phide of carbon’^ is the best known. Prep. 1. Bisulphuret of iron (or iron pyrites), 5 parts, and fresh dry charcoal, 1 part, are heated together in a stone-ware retort, fur- nished with a glass tube, having the end bent.