ALKALIMETRY. 101 may be obiserved, that it obviates one of the chief objections to the common plan, in its accuracy not being dependent on effecting the exact neutralisation of the alkali, or on the test acid being of jyrecisely the proper strength. It, however, requires considerable neatness in manipulation, and that the weights be taken with the greatest possible accuracy, and in a balance possessing very great delicacy when loaded with the apparatus. It may be here useful to remark that the operation of weigh- ing admits of much greater precision than that of measuring, especially uhere very small quantities are concerned. To obviate the difficulties, and to give greater precision and delicacy to volumetrical assays, the instrument known as Mohr’s alka- LIMETEE, or Mohr’s BUEETTE, and which is figured in the margin, may be employed. By means of it the test-acid in the graduated tube (a) may be added to the alkaline solution in (/), in any quantity at a time, however minute, by merely pressing the handles of the (jlamp {d) with the thumb and finger.^ The terminal tube (e) has its loiver orifice very small, and it is connected with the burette by means of a small piece of vulcanised India- rubber tube, on which the clamp {d) acts. (See engr^ The inner cylindrical part of the arm (i) is lined with cork, to prevent injury to the glass burette, and to hold it the more firmly. In the common method of alkalimetry the • The fig\ire (g) in the e»gr. is an enlarged view of this rfnnip. I ! ! alkali in the specimen examined may be in either the caustic or carbonated state, or it may consist of any mixture of caustic alkali, or carbonates; but it is absolutely ^^ECES- SAEY for accurate results, that it should be free from sulphureis, sulphites, and hyposul- phites, as sulphuric acid acts upon these sub- stances as well as on carbonates. The presence of muriates or chlorides does not interfere with the accuracy of the assay, unless a higher degree of heat is employed than that neces- sary for the expulsion of the absorbed carbonic acid. The soda-ash of commerce generally contains all these substances besides common salt, sulphate of soda, and insoluble matter, which do not interfere. Rough samples of POT-ASHES and peael-ash also generally con- tain some sulphurets, though not a large quantity. Various plans have been proposed to avoid this source of error. M. Gay-Lussac and Welter direct samples containing these substances, to be calcined in a platinum-cru- cible with about or 6g of chlorate of potassa, before testing them. In this way the salts referred to, are transformed into sulphates on which the test acid exerts no action. This method is, however, objectionable when hypo- sulphites are present; as each equivalent of hyposulphite is thus converted into two equiv. of sulphate, at the expense of the alkali or its carbonate in the specimen so treated, which renders the assay inaccurate. The treatment recommended by Fresenius and Will (see p. 100) avoids this new source of error. The differ- ence between an assay of a sample of the unprepared alkali and of another which has been treated as above, indicates the quantity of impurities contained in them under the forms just referred to. The presence of these substances in the commercial alkalies may be detected by the following tests :— 1. (Sulphurets.)—a. The addition of a little sulphuric acid causes the evolution of an odour resembling rotten eggs.—b. A solution of the suspected sample yields a black precipitate with acetate of lead. 2. (Sulphites and hyposulphites.)—a. A so- lution of the alkali, insufficient for saturation, being added to sxdphuric acid tinged reddish- yellow with bichromate of potash, occasions a greenish tinge, (owing to the formation of ‘oxide of chromium,’) when these (or either of them) are present.—b. Some hydrochloric acid added to a clear solution, after some time causes a turbidness and odour of sulphur. 3. (Muriates or chlorides.) The solution, after supersaturation with nitric acid, yields a cloudy white precipitate (‘ chloride of silver’) with nitrate of silver, insoluble in nitric acid, but freely soluble in ammonia, and which, when exposed to the light, turns first violet and subsequently black. It is also often desirable to determine the presence and the quantity of caustic alkali in any given sample. The first may be known by the solution, after the addition of a few