581 ESSENCE. rectified spirit, 10 oz.; digest a week, and filter. Aromatic, stomachic and diaphoretic. Dose. \ dr. to 1 dr.; in dyspepsia, dropsies, &c. Madden’s Essence. Concentrated infusion of roses. Essence of Malt. See CoLOUEixa. Essence of Mint. Syn. Essence of speae- MiNT; Essentia menth.e, E. m. spicat.e, E. m. vieidis, L. Prep. As essence of PEPPEEMINT. Essence of Musk. Syn. Essentia moschi, Tincttjea m. concenteata, L. Prep. 1. Grain musk, 2 oz., and boiling water, 1 pint, are digested together in a close vessel until cold, when rectified spirit of wine, 7 pints, is added; the vessel (preferably a tin bottle) being corked close, and tied over with bladder, the whole is digested, with frequent agitation, for 2 months, in the sunshine (in summer), or in an equally warm situation in winter. At the end of the time the essence is decanted and filtered. 2. Grain musk, ^ oz.; rectified spirit of wine, 2 pints; essence of ambergris, 1 fl. oz.; digest as before. 3. Musk (from the hladdei’, rubbed very small), 5 oz.; civet, \oz. ; essence of ambergris, 1 pint; spirit of ambrette, 1 gall.; as before. Obs. All the preceding formulae yield supe- rior essences, hut the product of the last is of the very finest quality, and such as is seldom sold, except by the most celebrated houses, when it fetches a very high price. It is powerfully and deliciously odorous, and has received the approval of royalty itself, both in these kingdoms and on the continent. The second formula also produces a very fine article, hut less choice than that just referred | to. The digestion should be long continued, j and on no account less than 3 Aveeks, as other- wise much fragrant matter is left undissolved. The addition of 1 Jl. dr. of either liquor of am- monia or liquor of potassa (the first is best) to each pint of the essence, vastly increases its fragrance. The essence of musk of the whole- sale London druggists is generally made by merely digesting the. freshly emptied musk pods in rectified spirit. Sometimes a little (a very little) grain musk is added. See Essence Royale and Essence of Ambeegeis. 4. (duibourt.) Musk, 1 part; proof spirit, 12 parts; digest a fortnight, or longer. Used in dispensing, &c. Essence of Musk Seed. See Essence d’Am- BEETTE. Essence of Mus'tard. Syn. Essentia sina- Pis, L. Prep. (Whitehead’s.) Black mustard seed (bruised), and camphor, of each, 2 oz.; oil of rosemary, 3 dr.; balsam of tolu, 1 dr.; annatto, ^ dr.; digest a week, and filter. Essence of Myr'tle. Syn. Essence of mye- TLE BLOSSOMS; ESSENCE DE MYETE, EsPEIT BE M., Fr. Prep. Myrtle tops (in blossom), 2^ lb.; proof spirit, 9 pints; digest 3 days, then distil 1 gall. A pleasant perfume. See Oil (Volatile). Essence of Nero'li. Syn. Essence be FLEUES b’oEANGES, ESPEIT BE F. B’O-, Fr. Prep. 1. Neroli, 3 dr.; rectified spirit of wine, 1 pint; mix. A delicious perfume. 2. Oil of orange, 2 dr.; orris root (bruised), ^ oz.; ambergris, 10 gr.; neroli, 35 drops; spirits of wine, 1 pint; digest 14 days, and filter. Very fragrant, hut less ‘chaste’ than the last. Essence of Nut'meg. Syn. Essentia my- EISTIC.E, E. M. MOSCHAT.E, E. NECIS M., L. Prep. From essential oil of nutmeg, as Essence OF Allspice. Used as a fiavouring or zest by cooks, liqueristes, and confectioners. OdontaEgic Essence. See Toothache Es- sence. Essence d’CEillets. [Fr.] Prep. From cin- namon, 3 oz.; cloves, li oz.; (both well bruised;) rectified spirit, 1 quart; digest for a week. Oil of cloves and spirit of doves also bear this name in some places. Essence of O'pium. See Anobyne Es- sence, No. 1. Black beop and Rous- seau’s LAUBANUM have also been sometimes so called. Essence of O'range. Syn. Essentia au- EANTii, L. Prep. As essence of lemon. Essence of Orange Peel. Syn. Essentia coETicis AUEANTii, L. Prep. 1. (Golden.) Fresh yellow-rind of orange, 4 oz.; rectified spirit and water, of each, f pint; digest for a week, press, filter, and add of sherry wine, 1 quart. A pleasant liqueur. 2. (Saccharated.) See Oleo-saccharum. Essence d’Orient. [Fr.] A pearly looking substance, found at the base of the scales of the hlay or bleak, a small fish of the genus cyprinus. Prep. The scales are scraped from the fish into a tub containing water, and after agitation > and repose the fiuid is poured oft', and its place supplied with fresh water, and this in its ! turn, after agitation and repose, is also poured oft'. This part of the operation is repeated I till the ‘ essence’ and scales are perfectly freed I from impurities, wlien the whole is thrown on ! a sieve, which retains the latter, hut allows the former to fiow through. After repose for a short time, the essence is obtained as a I deposit at the bottom of the vessel. 1 Obs. Essence d’Orient has a bluish-white I and pearly aspect, and is employed to cover j the interior of glass bubbles and beads, in I imitation of pearls and mother of pearl. Its j tendency to putrefaction, while in the moist I state, may he obviated by the addition of a little liquor of ammonia. Essence of Patch'ouli. Syn. Essence be PATCHOULIE, EsPEIT BE POUCHA PAT, Fr. Prep. 1. Indian patchouli (leaves or foliaceous tops), 2^ lb.; rectified spirit, 9 pints; digest for a week; add, of water, 1 gall.; oil of lavender (Mitcham), 3 dr.; common salt, 2 lb.; agitate well together, distil over (rapidly) 1 gallon, , and add of essence of music, 3^ fl. dr. A very | fashionable perfume. Essence of patchouli, j