139 AMMONIA. i enters into combination with the acids and 1 other bodies ? Or—Is it composed of another compound body united to either hydrogen or 1 water ? According to the old, and what is {commonly known as the ammonia theory, which is still very generally accepted, the \ former view of the subject is held to be the I correct one. The supporters of this opinion {regard ammonia as a ‘base’ whose constitu- tion is represented by the simple formula I XHg; and which combines with the ‘ hy dracids ’ to form hydro-salts, and with the ‘oxacids’ to form oxysalts; or which, (according to more I recent opinions respecting the acids,) is capable of replacing one or more equivalents of hy- ; drogen in the acids, forming salts, and pre- ' serving its own constitution as before. By the AMMONIUM THEORY, elaborated by Berzelius out of his own researches and those of Davy, a hypothetical compound metal ammonium (NH4) is* taken to be the base of ammonia and its preparations. Its oxide (NH4,0) is equal to 1 equiv. of ammonia and 1 equiv. of water (NHg, HO). T\vq former (ammonium), is pre- sumed to form salts with the hydracids; and the latter (oxide of ammonium), those with the oxyacids. Sal ammoniac (NH4,C1) may be taken as an example of the one, and sulphate of ammonia (NH4O, SO3), as an example of the ; other. Another view of ammonia and its : compounds is furnished by the amide theory of Dr. Kane. Here amidogen (NHo) is pre- sumed to be an electro-negative substance which by its union with 1 equiv. of hydrogen [forms ammonia (NH2H = HYDRAMIDE; AMI- I dide of hydrogen) ; and with 2 eq. of hy- drogen, ammonium (NHo Hg = Subamidide of HYDROGEN; and with hydrogen and water, it forms a compound equiv. to Berzelius’ hypo- I thetical oxide of ammonium (NH2,H,HO = iNH4,0). Amidide of hydrogen (ammonia) I forms salts as already noticed. “It combines I with a great number of saline bodies, and then i resembles, in its functions, their water of crys- itallisation. Its most remarkable property, however, is, that in acting on metallic com- pounds and on certain organic acids,it abandons an atom of hydrogen, and the remaining NHg, combines with the metal or with the radical of the acid. Thus, with HgCl, and NHg there result HgNH2, and HCl.”^ The application of the theory of the Amides, as a series, has been i lately considerably extended by M. Adolphe ' Wurtz. He endeavours to demonstrate that these combinations, which have long been con- nected with the acids, are derived, like them, from the type water. “ In this point of view an amide is nothing but an acid of which the two molecules of oxygen of the primitive type I ivater, have been replaced by the residual NH of a molecule of ammonia, having lost two equiv. of hydrogen.”^ Each of the above theories possesses a high j claim to probability, and “ might be regarded \ Kane, “ Elem. Cherny ' " Comptes Bendvs" as a true exponent of the behaviour of tl'.e compounds in question; but none of them obviate all objections.”^ The theory of Ber- zelius is the one most generally adopted by chemists, chiefly on account of its simplicity and convenience; notwithstanding the fact, that ammonium and its oxide are mere hypo- thetical bodies, which are incapable of existing in an uncombined state. The theory of J)r. Kane is supported by a long series of analogies, and is open to fewer objections and exceptions than the others. It is, however, highly pro- bable, that as soon as the views of Gerhardt shall liave been fully developed and confirmed by the researches of other chemists, and his ‘equivalents’ and ‘system of notation’ shall have become familiar, the above theories, with many others now accepted by chemists, will undergo important changes, and gradually become obsolete.'* See Alkali, Alkalime- try, Amide, Amidogen, Hydrogen, Ma- nures, Nitrogen, Nomenclature, Organic Analysis, &c. (also below). Ac'etate of Ammonia (as -). Syn. Ammo'^nt^e Ace'tas, L.; Acetate d’ammoniaque, Fr.; Essigsaures ammoniak, Ger. Prep. 1. Take of acetate of lime or of potassa and sal ammoniac, equal parts; mix and distil at a gentle heat. The oily liquid (binacetate of ammonia) in the receiver forms a radiated crystalline mass on cooling. Dry gaseous ammonia passed into this salt, melted* by a gentle heat, transforms it into the solid and inodorous neutral acetate. 2. Strong acetic acid is saturated with am- monia or its carbonate, and the solution evapo- rated over sulphuric acid in vacuo; the resulting crystals, after being carefully drained, are dried by pressure between bibulous paper. 3. From a saturated solution of the salt in hot water, suffered to cool very slowly in a closed vessel. Prop., 8fc. Long, slender crystals,^ or a crystalline mass, freely soluble in both alcohol and water, and deliquescent in the air; taste, sharp and cooling, and somewhat sweetish. Its solutions cannot be evaporated without loss of the base; even the salt passes off in large quantities with the vapour of water. Its aqueous solution becomes alkaline on keeping, from decomposition of the acid. Distilled with anhydrous phosphoric acid, it is converted into acetonitrile. An aqueous solution of this salt was introduced into the Materia Me- dica by Boerhaave (a.d. 1732); and has since been extensively used as a diaphoretic and febrifuge, under the popular name of mindere"- RUS SPIRIT, after Minderer or Mindererus, who extensively employed it and extolled its vir- tues. When pu.re, both the salt and its solu- tions are neutral to test paper, and are wholly volatilised by heat. See Solutions. 3 Muspratt. < See “ Introduction a Vetude de la Chimie par le systeme unitaire,” “Traite de Chimie Organique,” &c., par Charles Gerhardt. 5 Wlien obtained by evaporation in vacuo, they are transparent, oblique, rhomboidal prisms. fThomson^