BLACK DYE. 322 of fustic; then lift them from the bath, add 2 oz. of copperas, re-immerse, and ‘ work’ them well for 10 or 15 minutes longer ; lastly, rinse, air, and finish. A full deep black. 4. (For 5 lb.) For the ‘ mordant’ use ^ lb. of copperas ; rinse, and air; for the ‘ dye-bath,’ a decoction of 4 lb. of logwood to which ^ pint of stale urine has been added; after ‘lifting’ the ‘ goods’ add 2 oz. more of copperas to the bath, and work for 15 minutes, as before. A good black. By adding 2 oz. of dyer’s nitrate of iron to the ‘mordant’ the same ingredients will give a deep black ; and by substituting a little white soap for the ‘urine,’ and omitting the addition of ‘ copperas’ to the logwood-bath, it will give a blee-black. The last may also be produced by first dyeing the goods deep blue as with ‘ prussiate,’ and omitting the urine and soap, in which case one-half only of the ‘ logwood’ will be required. d. For Wool :— To produce a good permanent black on wool, or woollen goods, they must be first dyed of a deep-blue in the indigo-vat, or, more cheaply, by the Prussian-blue process. When the goods are coarse or common, and price is an object, they are generally ‘ rooted^ instead of being ‘ blued.’ This consists in giving them a dun or brown colour with the husks of walnuts, or the roots of the walnut-tree, or with other like cheap astringent substances. 1. (For 1 cwt. of wool.) Good logwood-chips, 20 lb., and Aleppo-galls, 18 lb.; are inclosed in a coarse bag, and boiled with water, q. s., for 5 or 6 hours; -|rd of this decoction is then transferred into another copper, with verdigris, 2 lb., and a sufficient quantity of water having been added, the ‘ goods’ {previously dyed dark- blue) are passed through the liquor for two hours, at a heat slightly below the boiling point. The ‘ goods’ are next ‘ lifted’ and drained, another |^rd of the decoction of logwood and galls, with copperas, 9 lb., .added to the boiler, after which the fire is lowered, and as soon as the copperas is dissolved, the cloth is returned to the ‘bath,’ and again well ‘ worked’ for at least an hour. It is then taken out, thoroughly aired, and the remaining ^rd of the decoction added, with sumach, 20 lb. The whole is then brought to a boil, and sul- phate of iron, 2 lb., together with a pailful of cold water, thrown in; after which the goods are put in a third time, and ‘ worked’ for one hour; they are then taken out, rinsed, aired, and again passed through the bath for another hour. After being thoroughly rinsed, the ‘goods’ are at once either ‘fulled,’ dried, and folded, or are further softened and beautified by passing them for 15 minutes through a hot weld-bath (not boiling), when they are rinsed, &c. (but not ‘fulled’), as before. A beautiful though expensive dye. With management, the above quantities of the ingredients will dye I5 or even 1| cwt. of wool. 2. (For 1 cwt.) The cloth (previously dyed blue) is ‘ galled’ with 5 lb. of nut-galls, and then dyed in a bath made with 30 lb. of log- wood, to which about 5 lb. of copperas has been added; after which it is rinsed, aired, and ‘ fulled,’ as before. This is said, by Lewis, to be the usual proportions and plan adopted by the English dyers. 3. (For 1 cwt^ Make a bath, as before, with fustic, 2 lb.; logwood, 5 lb.; and sumach, 10 lb. ; ‘ work’ the (blued) cloth for 3 hours at the boiling heat, or near it; lift it out,add sulphate of iron, 10^ lb., and when dissolved, pass the cloth through it for 2 hours; rinse, air well, and again pass the‘goods’ through the bath for an hour; lastly, rinse until the water runs clear. Inferior to the last, but less expensive. 4. (For 1 cwt., without previous ‘blueing’ or ‘rooting.’)—a. Work the ‘ goods,’ at about 200° Fahr., for one hour, in a bath made with 6 to 7 lb. of cam-wood; lift, add 6^ lb. of cop- peras, and again work the ‘ goods’ for an hour, after which withdraw the fire, and allow them to steep for 10 or 12 hours; next drain and rinse them, and work them in a second bath made with 60 lb. of logwood, for 1^ hour; lift, add 3 lb. of copperas, and again work for an hour; lastly, rinse, air, and finish:—b. The ‘ goods’ are first ‘ worked,’ for about two hours, in a bath of 3 lb. of fustic, in which 5 lb. of bichromate of potash and 4 lb. of alum have been dissolved; after exposure to the air for about an hour, and thorough rinsing, they are ‘worked’ for a second two hours in a bath made with 45 lb. of logwood, 3| lb. of barwood or cam-wood, and 3 lb. fustic ; they are then ‘lifted,’ and 3 lb. of copperas having been added to the bath, are again immersed and worked for half an hour to an hour. 5. (For 10 lb. of wool or w.-cloth^ Work the ‘goods’ for \ an hour in a bath of ^ lb. of cam-wood ; lift, add 7 or 8 oz. of copperas, and after ‘ working’ them for 20 minutes, with- draw the fire, and leave them in the liquor for 10 or 12 hours; next rinse them in cold water, drain, and then work them for an hour in a bath made with 5 lb. of logwood to which 1 pint of urine has been added; lift, add 4 oz. of copperas, work them for half an hour longer, and, lastly, wash and dry them. 6. (For 7 /i.) Take of galls (bruised), \ lb.; logwood chips, 1 ^ lb.; for the bath; boil or work the ‘goods’ for 2 hours, take them out, add of copperas, ^ lb.; and when it is dis- solved, work the ‘ goods’ through the liquor for at least 2 hours, keeping the bath nearly boiling; again take them out, wash, and air ; then add 1 oz. more of copperas to the bath and pass the cloth through it for another hour; lastly air, rinse, and finish. 7. (For 5 lb) For the first \yeit\i—bichro- mate of potash, 8 oz.; alum, 6 oz.; fustic, 4 oz.; for the second bath—logwood, 4 lb.; barwood fustic, of each, 4 oz.; to which add, after the lift, copperas, 4 oz.; the process being con- ducted as in 4, b. This, as well as the two formulae immediately preceding it, is particu- larly suited to articles of dress dyed in the