417 CERATE. d. Lard (common) and linseed oil, of each, 3 lb.; yellow resin, 9 lb. ; as before. Uses, This cerate is a mild stimulant, detergent, and digestive application; and as such is employed to dress foul and indolent ulcers, blistered surfaces, burns, &c. For the corresponding preparations of the other col- leges, see Ointments. 3. (Compound; Desh'leb’s cerate; Ce- ra'tum besi'n^ compos'itum, L.) Prep. (Ph. U. S.) Resin, suet, and bees’ wax, of each, i lb.; turpentine, ^ lb. ; Jiax-seed oil (linseed oil), ^ pint; as above. Rather more stimu- lating than resin cerate, but used for the same purposes. Rose Cerate. Syn. Lip salve; Ceba'tem BOSA^TTTM, L. Prep. (P. C.) Oil of almonds, I 16 parts; white wax, 8 parts; alkanet root, ' 1 part; digest, with a gentle heat, until suffi- ciently coloured, then strain, and for every ounce of the cerate, add otto of roses, 2 drops. , See Lip Salve. i Sav'ine Cerate. Syn, Ceba'tum sabi'n^ i (Ph. E.; and Ph. L. 1836), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. E.) Bees’ wax, 1 part; lard, 4 parts; ; fresh savine (leaves, bruised), 2 parts; boil '( together until the leaves become crisp, then 11 strain, with pressure, through a linen cloth. 2. (Ph. L. 1836.) Lard, 2 lb.; savine leaves, ■ 1 lb.; bees’ wax, \ lb.; as last. ! 3. (Ph. L. 1851.) In the last Ph. L. and i Ph. I)., this preparation is included among I the OINTMENTS; in trade, however, the old i 1 name (Ph. L. 1836) is still generally re- j tained. Obs. The preparation of this cerate requires ij caution, as the active principle of the savine, 1, being volatile^ is injured by long boiling and 11 a high temperature. The leaves are usually ! I boiled until they are crisp, but as this takes i some time, the essential oil, and consequently the odour, is nearly all dissipated. A better plan is to express the juice from the leaves, and to add it to the wax and oil melted to- gether, and just beginning to cool. As usually met with in the shops, this cerate has a lively green colour, and the odour of the fresh plant; but neither of these is derived from the leaves in the common process of making it. The first is caused by the addition of powdered verdigris, and the last by adding a little of the essential oil of savine to the com- pound when nearly cold. The preparations of the British Colleges have only a very pale green colour, and even that rapidly changes by exposure to the air. A uniform green colour may therefore be regarded as a proof of adulleration; as the unadulterated com- pound, however skilfully prepared, is of a green colour, of little intensity; and after it has been made a short time, it fades on the surface, and the under portion becomes streaky and mottled. A greater quantity of colour is obtained from the leaves by long di- gestion in the fat and wax in earthen vessels, at a moderate heat, than by hasty boiling. In this way a lively green is sometimes pro- duced, but it rapidly changes in the manner just mentioned. The following forms are those commonly adopted by the wholesale druggists for the manufacture of this cerate:— 4. Lard and suet, of each, 6 lb.; yellow wax, 2 lb.; melt them together in an earthen vessel; add 2 oz. of distilled verdigris (pre- viously rubbed down smooth in a mortar with an equal weight of sweet oil); strain, whilst hot, into a large earthen pot, and when the whole has cooled a little, add of oil of savine, 1 oz., and stir until cold. 5. Savine leaves, 4 lb.; yellow wax, 2 lb. ; lard, 8 lb.; boil until the leaves become crisp; then strain, and add, of green ointment (lively coloured), 5 lb.; when cooled a little, further add, of oil of savine, 3 dr., and stir briskly until cold. Prod. 13| lb. Uses, Hfc. Savine cerate and ointment are chiefly employed to keep up the discharge from blisters {perpetual blisters), for which purpose it is preferable to preparations of cantharides. The practice of colouring this cerate with verdigris, which is general in trade, cannot be too severely censured, as its therapeutic action is thereby altered. The copper may be detected by burning down a little in a platinum or Hessian crucible, washing out the ashes with a little dilute nitric acid, placing the liquor in a glass tube, and apply- ing the usual tests. See Copper and Oint- ments. Sim'ple Cerate. Syn. Ceba'tum sim'plex, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. E.) Spermaceti, 1 part; white wax, 3 parts; olive oil, 6 parts; melt by a gentle heat, and stir until cold. 2. (Ph. L.) The simple cerate (Ceratum, —Ph. L. 1836 and 1851; Cebatum simplex, —Ph. L. 1824) of the London College does not contain spermaceti, and is made with yellow wax. See Cerate and Spermaceti Cerate. Soap Cerate. Syn. Compound soap ce- rate; Ceba'tum sapo'nis (Ph. L. 1836), C. SAPONis compos'itum (Ph. L. 1851), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Boil litharge, 15 oz., in distilled vinegar, 1 gall., until dissolved, stir- ring continually; then add of Castile soap, 10 oz.; again boil until all the moisture is evaporated; then add, gradually, bees’ wax, 12^ oz., and olive oil, 1 pint, previously melted together, and stir until nearly cold. 2. (Wholesale.) Distilled vinegar, 6 gall.; lilharge, 5 lb. ; soap, 3| lb.; yellow wax, 4^ lb.; olive oil, 6 pints. Mix as above. Good nut or poppy oil may be used instead of olive oil. Obs. Unless the instructions contained in the above formulae are followed in every par- ticular, the process is apt to miscarry. When this is the case, the cerate, on cooling, sepa- rates into two portions, and is commonly full of hard, gritty particles. To prevent this, care should be taken to use soap of the best quality. This mishap cannot be got over by 27