GINGER BEER—GLASS. 693 the microscope, the others by the flavour and action of hot water. See Lozenges, &c. Preserved Ginger. Syn, Conditum zingi- BEEis, L. An excellent stomachic sweatmeat or preserve. It is chiefly imported from the West Indies and China. See Candying, &c. A Factitious Pfeserved Ginger is sometimes met with, prepared from the stalks of lettuce just going to seed, using a concentrated syrup, strongly flavoured with Jamaica ginger. See Candy, &c. GIN'GER BEER. See BEEEi GIN'GERBREAD. Prep. 1. (Dr. Colquhoun.) Floury 1 lb.; carbonate of magnesia, 5 oz.; mix; add, oi treacle, ^ lb. ; moist sugar, ^ lb. ; melted butter, 2 oz.; tartaric acid (dissolved in a little water), 1 dr.; make a stiff dough, then add of powdered ginger and cinnamon (cassia), of each, 1 dr.; grated nutmeg, 1 oz.; set it aside for half an hour or an hour before putting it into the oven. Obsi It should not be kept longer than two or three hours, at the utmost, before being baked. - 2. Flour and treacle, of each, 1 lb.; butter, oz.; carbonate of magnesia, 1 oz.; add spices (ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, cayenne, corianders, &c.) to taste i mix as last. Obs. Fit for baking in from four to six hours. 3. Flour, 2 lb. ; carbonate of magnesia. ^ oz.; mix; add, treacle, 1| lb. ;• butter, 2 oz. ; spice, q. s. j tartaric acid, \ oz.; mix quickly, and ;nake it into forms. Obs. Ripe for the oven id half an hour to one hour. ' ’ " 4. Instead of tartaric acid in the last for- mula, use cream of tartar (dissolved in water), 2 oz. Obs. Ripens in 40 or 50 minutes. 5. Flour or fine pollard, 1 lb. ; treacle, I lb. ; salt of tartar, \ oz., dissolved in water, q. s.; butter, 1 oz.; spices, to palate. Obs. Takes several days to ripen ; sometimes a fortnight. 6. (Extemporaneous.)—a. From flour, 1:^ lb.; moist sugar and treacle, of each, ^ lb. ; butter, 2^ oz. ; baker’s salt (carbonate of ammonia), i oz., dissolved in cold water, q. s.; ginger, 3 dr.; nutmeg, 2 dr.; cassia, 1 dr.; cayenne vepper (best), ^ dr. b. From flour, 6 lb. ; powdered ginger, qz.; caraway seeds, 1 oz. (and other spices • to palate); candied lemon and orange peels; of each, 2 oz.; moist sugar and melted butter, of each, i lb.; treacle, 4 lb.; volatile salt, 2 oz. ; water, q. s.; mix as above. May be baked at once. c. From Jones’s patent flour, 2 lb.; treacle, 1 lb.; moist sugar, | lb. ; butter, 2^ oz. ; spice, q. s.; mix as quickly as possible, and bake it instantly. If the dough is expertly mixed up, the quality of the product is fully equal, if not superior, to that of any of the preceding formulae. Obs. Gingerbread is either rolled out into thin sheets and cut into cakes or nuts (ginger- bread nuts) with the top of a wine-glass or canister, or is formed into thick cakes, which are baked in ‘batches’ (ordinary gingerbread). Both varieties require a pretty brisk oven; the thinner kinds (nuts, &c.), especially, must be baked as crisp as possible, without being burnt. The varieties called lemon ginger- bread, CARAWAY G., &c., have a perceptible predominance of these flavouring ingredients. The addition of a little alum, dissolved in water, makes the bread both lighter and crisper, and causes it to ripen quicker, but at the same time lessens its wholesomeness. GIN'GER CAN'DY. See Candying. GIN'GER DROPS. /iSee Drops (Confec- tionary). GLAIRE. White of egg. See Albumen and Egg. GLAN'DERS. Syn. Farcinoma, L. A con- tagious disease, generally conflned to the horse, ass, and mule, but communicable to man, in whom it assumes a highly malignant and often fatal character. This disease appears under two forms—1. Simple acute glanders, marked by copious discharge of foul mucous matter from the nostrils and adjacent parts; and—2. Farcy, Farcin, or Farcy glanders, when it attacks the lymphatics of the skin, either generally, producing a distended ap- pearance of the vessels, like moles or buttons (lead or BUTTON parcy), or locally, when it takes the form of dropsical accumulations in the legs (water parcy). Treat. Mr. Youatt considers it useless to attempt the cure of ‘ glandered’ horses; but that ‘ farcy’ in its earlier stages and milder forms may be often successfully treated. “ All the mercurials have been used with benefit in farcy; but they must be discontinued as soon as the mouth is sufficiently affected, or sick- ness, loss of appetite, and like symptoms, are produced.” (Blaine.) Feeding the animal en- tirely on green food appears to be the best mode of treatment in both varieties. The buttons are generally removed with caustic or a red-hot iron. GLASS. Syn. Vitrum, L. This well- known substance is essentially a mixture of SILICATES with an excess of silica or silicic ACID. It generally contains the silicates of potassa, soda, lime, baryta, magnesia, alumina, and lead, coloured by small portions of iron, manganese, cobalt, uranium, copper, or gold. In its usual form, it is brittle, transparent, non- crystalline, insoluble, and fusible; but it some- times exhibits other properties. The manufacture of glass is one of the highest beauty, and considering the compa- rative worthlessness of the materials of which it is made, and the various purposes of a use- ful, ornamental, and scientific nature which it subserves, it may be regarded as, perhaps, the most important in the history of inven- tions. The principle of its production is very simple, although great skill and experience are necessary to ensure its excellence. Silica (commonly under the form of sand) is heated with carbonate of potassa or of soda, slaked lime or oxide of lead, until the mixture fuses, and combination takes place. After a time the melted mass becomes perfectly limpid and free