33 ACIDIMETRY. of copper or of zinc. See “ Annul, d. Chem. u. Pharm.'' 93, 386. 3. (M. Peligot’s Process.) A solution of saccharate of lime is taken as the test-liquid or standard solution, and is employed in the usual way. The test-liquor is prepared as follows:— Pure caustic lime (obtained by the calcination of Carara mai’kle) is slaked by sprinkling it with water, and is subsequently reduced, by the addition of more water, to the consistence of a milky liquor. This is put into a bottle, and pulverised sugar-candy added, the cork re- placed, and the whole well shaken, in the cold. After repose for some time, and the milky liquid has become clear, if not quite limpid, it is either decanted, or filtered (out of contact with the air), for use. When properly pre- pared, the ^ filtrate ’ contains exactly 1 part of lime for every 2 parts of sugar employed. The proportions recommended by M. Violette are—slaked caustic lime, 50 grammes ; sugar, 100 grammes (dissolved in); water, 1 litre. For use, this solution is diluted so that 1000 water-grains measure (100 acidimeter divisions) contain exactly 28 gr. of pure caustic lime, and exactly neutralise 100 gr. of pure hydro- Moric acid of the sp. gr. 1*1812 (=36*5 gr. of hydrochloric acid gas). This method only answers with acids of which the lime-salts are freely soluble in water. When employed in assays of sulphuric acid, either the acid, or the test-liquor, must be considerably diluted, to prevent the forma- tion of a precipitate of sulphate of lime. Obs. In conducting the above processes the ‘test-liquor,’ as already intimated, is measured and poured from a graduated acidi- meter (i. e., an ‘ alkalimeter ’ employed in aci- dimetry). Those noticed under Acetimetey, and figured at pages 22-3, are the forms most generally employed. In using them the operator must he careful to pour the test- liquid out in drops, as occasion may require, without allowing the smallest portion to he wasted by running over the outside, which would render the results inaccurate. For this purpose the lip of the tube may he smeared with tallow ; and the greatest caution must be observed, so as neither to waste the test-liquid, nor to add it in too large a quantity at a time. In practice, for ordinary purposes, the simple graduated tube {a., p. 22) will be found all that is required; and it has the advantage of being less expensive and more durable than other forms. A very small hole at the upper part of this tube, to admit air, will be found a great improvement; care being taken to pour the liquid from the opposite side to that in which the hole is made. By placing the thumb on the orifice of the tube, partly invert- ing it, and allowing the liquid to trickle between the thumb and the lip of the tube, the test may be added to the sample under exami- nation with the greatest nicety. In operating in this way, it is merely necessary to be care- ful not to remove the thumb from the tube until the completion of the assay, for otherwise the portion of the test-liquid adhering to the References. 1. Gay-Lussac’s Pouret. 2. Normandy’s modification of Schuster’s alkalimeter. (a.) Hollow stopper or bulb. {&.) Thumb hole. (c.) Capillary opening for test-liquid (d.) Glass tube, with neck ground to fit tlie bulb, or stopper (a). 3. Binks’s alkalimeter^ (5) and (c) as tlie last. 4. 'Tube, with lip and grooved stopper to control the -■ delivery of the test-fiq-uid. surface of the thumb would be Avasted, and the correctness of the result impaired. When extreme accuracy is desired, or if the operator be inexpert at chemical manipulations, one or other of the graduated tubes represented in the engraving may be employed. The objec- tion to the extreme fragility of Gay-Lussac’s pouret may be partly removed, by pressing some softened sealing-wax, or gutta-percha, into the interstice between the small and large tubes; or the modification of it, known as ‘ GiessleFs burette ’ (in which the narrow tube is enclosed inside the wide tube, instead of ‘ outside,’ as in Gay-Lussac’s burette), may be employed. In using these acidimeters the test-liquid may be gradually poured from them until the point of neutralisation be nearly reached, when the thumb must be applied to the opening if), and the last addi- tions made in the most cautious manner, as already described. WTien the saturation is complete, the drop of liquid retained in the capillary opening of the tube must be allowed to run back, before counting off the measures consumed. In doing this, care must be taken to place the tube perfectly upright and steady ; and the reading will be facilitated if a screen, or piece of darkened pasteboard having a narrow opening in it, be placed between the tube and the light. By bringing the surface of the liquor against this opening, its height may be observed with great exactness. The lowest part of the dark curve formed by such surface, is taken to be the true level. A tubu- lar glass, with a rounded bottom inside, is the most convenient for holding the sample of acid 3