690 ETCHiKa. designs vary considerably, almost every artist having his own receipt. Aquafortis, more or less diluted, is, however, generally employed for COPPEE, and this, with the addition of pyroligneous acid, for etching on steel ; but any fluid that rapidly dissolves the metal may be used for the purpose. The ‘ etching ground’ may be formed of any substance ca- pable of resisting the action of the etching fluid, and which is, at the same time, sufti- ciently soft to allow of the free use of the needle or point, and sufficiently solid to prevent an injury to the design during the ‘ scratching in’ In ETCHING ON GLASS, the ground is laid on, and the design ‘ scratched in’ in the usual way, when liquid hydrofluoric acid is applied, or the glass is exposed to the action of hydro- fluoric acid gas. The former renders the surface of the etching transparent, the latter opaque. A simple modification of the process is to wet the design with sulphuric acid, and then to sprinkle on some finely pulverized fluor spar (fluoride of calcium), by which means hydrofluoric acid is set free and attacks the glass. This method may be very easily ap- plied to the graduation of glass vessels, thermo- meter tubes, &c. A KAPID METHOD OF ETCHING ON IRON OR STEEL, capable of very general application, is as follows :—“ The metal is warmed until it is capable of melting a piece of bees’ wax, or ‘ etching ground,’ which is then carefully rubbed over it, so as to form a thin and even coating; when cold, the design is ‘ scratched in’ in the common way ; a little powdered iodine is then sprinkled on the exposed parts, and at the same time afeiv drops of water are added, and the tvvo worked into a liquid paste with a camel-hair pencil. The paste is then moved about over the intended etching, for a period varying from one to five minutes, according to the depth of the lines required to be pro- duced. Afterwards the whole is removed, and reapplied, &c., as with the usual etching fluids. The same etching-paste, by being kept for a few days, again acquires the property of dissolving iron, and may be used again and again; but independently of this, the iodide of iron formed during the process, if rapidly evaporated to dryness in a clean iron vessel by a moderate heat, and placed in stoppered bot- tles, will sell for more than the original cost of the iodine. To travellers and amateurs who amuse themselves with the delightful art of etching, iodine, from its portability and con- venience, will, doubtless, prove invaluable. We have adopted it with considerable success, and have found it especially useful in marking surgical instruments, razors, and other edge tools. We published this method many years ago. Several parties have since availed them- selves of our suggestions and formulae, but without the slightest acknowledgment of the source from which they obtained them.” (A. J. Cooley). Electro-etching. This mode of etching, which is in many respects superior to the ordinary mode, is based upon the destructive action of certain ‘ anions’ during ‘ electrolysis.’’^ If two plates of copper be connected with the opposite ends of a voltaic battery, and placed in a vessel containing very dilute sulphuric acid, the plate connected with the copper of the battery will be attacked by the anion oxygen which is released during the decomposition of the acid. This destructive action can be localized at pleasure by covering certain parts of the plate with a protecting stratum of varnish, ordinary ‘ etching ground’ for instance. In the practice of electro-etching, the drawing is ‘ scratched in’ in the usual way through an ordinary ground ; a stout wire is then soldered to the plate, and this, as well as the back of the plate, is coated with sealing-wax varnish. Thus prepared, the plate is placed in a suitable * decomposition cell’ opposite a plate of some- what similar size, and the two are connected respectively with the copper and zinc of a '"Daniell’s cell,’ or the silver and zinc of a ‘ Smee’s cell.’^ After about ten minutes the plate is removed, washed, and dried; and when the ‘ fine work’ has been stopped out with Brunswick black, it is returned for another space of ten minutes. By alternately exposing the plate to the action of the decomposing fluid, and ‘ stopping out’ parts of the work, the required gradation in tints is obtained. The exact duration of the various exposures, as well as their number, must, of course, be regu- lated by circumstances. See Etching Fluids {beloiv). Etching Fluids. 1. (For copper.)—a. From ‘ aquafortis’ 2^ fl. oz.; water, 5 fl. oz.; mix. b. To the last add of verdigris, 1 oz. ; water, 2| fl. oz.; dissolve. For light touches. c. (Eau forte,—Callot and Piranesi.) Alum, sal ammoniac, sea salt, and verdigris, of each, 4 oz.; vinegar (pyroligneous acid), 8 fl. oz.; water, 16 fl. oz.; mix, dissolve, boil for 1 or 2 minutes in a glazed or stoneware vessel, cool, and decant the clear portion. Used as the last. d. Water acidulated with sulphuric acid. Used in the process of electro-etching. 2. (For STEEL.)—a. Yrom iodine, loz.; iron filings or wire, ^ dr.; water, 4 fl. oz. It must be kept in a stoppered bottle, until required for use. b. From iodine, 3 dr.; iodide of potassium, 1 dr.; proof spirit, 1 fl. oz.; water, 2 fl. oz. As the last. c. (Mr. Turrel.) Pyroligneous acid, 4 fl. oz.; alcohol (rectified spirit), 1 fl. oz.; mix, and add of nitric acid or double aquafortis (sp. gr. 1*28), 1 fl. oz. d. From hydrochloric acid, 5 parts; water, 95 parts; mix, and add the liquid to a so- 1 See ELEcmoLrsis and Ei-ECTaoTi’PEjWrtf 644 and 54.5. * See Voltaic Electeicity.