593 Hther. jwhich proved that ether differed from alcohol iby the elements of water. Recent experi- jments have, however, shown that a very dif- Iferent relation exists between the two com- Ipounds: thus, if alcohol be expressed by the ifonnnla C4Hg02, the true formula of ether will I be CgHioO^, and not C4H5O, as formerly sup- 1 posed. We cannot describe these experiments I here, but we state one radical objection to the !old theory. Ether cannot be made to com- ibine with water directly, nor can alcohol be I converted into ether by the abstraction of water. I The compound ethers (acetic ethee, hy- [deochloric ether, &c., noticed below) may I be compared to ordinary salts in which the 'metal is replaced by a ‘ radicle’ termed ethyl, having the formula C4H5. This view is, of I course, in accordance with the older theory, ; which regards ordinary ether as the oxide of ' ethyl. According to theory, 1 equiv.alent, or 46 parts jof absolute alcohol, should produce 1 eq., or {37 parts, of pure ether; but in practice, the I greatest product obtained by operating accord- ting to Boullay’s method, which produces more i ether than any other, does not exceed 33^ {parts for the preceding quantity of alcohol, or jTl’Sg. (Geiger.) A mixture of 9 ^arts of oil of vitriol, and 5 parts of alcohol of 90g, ceases ito produce ether after 31 parts of such alcohol have been added. Sulphuric acid containing {more than 4^ atoms of water to 1 atom of dry I acid is too weak for the ‘ etherification’ of i alcohol, and 3^ to 4 atoms of water appear to be the limit of dilution, fixed by experience, I for the productive preparation of ether. (Lie- I , ^ The most economical method of etherification is that known as the continuous ether process, or the process of Boullay. When this is adopted, j the retort or flask should be fitted with a sound I cork, perforated by an aperture to receive a I thermometer, and the application of the heat, and the^ow of alcohol, should be so managed, that a temperature of 300° Fahr. and a state of rapid and violent ebullition (points of essen- tial importance) are maintained. Prop., Uses, Sfc.—Pure ether is a colourless, transparent, and very limpid fluid, having a i penetrating and agreeable smell, and a burning, i sweetish taste; its evaporation produces the sensation of extreme cold; when prevented, a sensation of heat is experienced. Its specific , gravity has been variously stated by different chemical writers,—’7119 at 75°, -7154 at , 68°, and *7237 at 55° Fahr. (Liebig and Gre- gory) ; -713 to -715 at 60° (Ure, &c.); *713 at 68° (Dumas, Boullay); about ’720 (Fownes). It is said to begin to crystallize in brilliant white plates when cooled to —24° Fahr., and become a white crystalline mass : at —46° or —47° Fahr. (Ure, Liebig, Fourcroy, I Vauquelin); but, according to others, abso- lutely pure ether cannot be solidified by any ; degree of cold that can be produced (Thenard and Bussy). It remained fluid when placed in contact with solid carbonic acid, at about a temperature of about —148° Fahr. (Pereira). It boils at 96° or 97° Fahr.; is very combus- tible ; is soluble in about 10 parts of distilled water, and mixes with alcohol in all propor- tions. It abstracts corrosive sublimate, ter- chloride of gold, sesquichloride of iron, and many of the alkaloids, from their watery solu- tions, and is hence invaluable in analysis and pharmacy. It readily dissolves the volatile and fixed oils, and most fatty matters, as well as sulphur and phosphorus in small quantities. By exposure to light and air it absorbs oxygen, and water and acetic acid are gradually formed. It is decomposed by exposure to a high tem- perature. Its evaporation occasions intense cold. The greatest degree of cold yet produced (—166° Fahr.) has resulted from the admix- ture of ether with solid carbonic acid. Ether is powerfully stimulant, narcotic, and anti- spasmodic, and externally refrigerant, if al- lowed to evaporate, or stimulant and counter- irritant if its evaporation is prevented, and is used in various diseases. Applied to the forehead by means of the fingers or a strip of linen, it generally relieves simple cases of nervous head- ache. In pharmacy, it is largely employed in the preparation of tinctures, alkaloids, spirits, &c.; and in chemistry is invaluable in organic analyses. Its principal commercial application is as a solvent for pyroxylins, in the manufac- ! ture of collodion. It is also employed as a sol- vent of resins, India rubber, &c., in the pre- j paration of varnishes, and for several other I useful purposes. Dose. 20 drops to 2 fl. dr.; j in w’ater or wine. Excessive doses of ether I produce intoxication resembling that from j alcohol, and require similar antidotes. It is I commonly taken as a stimulant by fashionable j ladies. Shortly before the discovery of chlo- I ROEOEM, it was found that when the vapour of I ether was inhaled it gradually produced in- ! sensibility to pain. It was therefore employed j as an anaesthetic in surgical operations. Having been found less efficient than chloro- ! form, and more troublesome to administer, I its use for this purpose has been nearly aban- I doned. Tests. Ether may be recognised by its vola- tility, odour, taste, sparing solubility in water, j admixture with alcohol in all proportions, great inflammability (burning with a yellowish-white flame), and its power of dissolving fats and resins. Its further identification can only be effected by ultimate analysis. Pur. The ether of the shops, generally, con- tains alcohol, water, or acetic acid, and some- times all of them. Its usual specific gravity fluctuates between '733 and '765. The London College states that it should be '750, while the Edinburgh College fixes it at '735 or under. “ It totally vaporizes in the air, and slightly reddens litmus.” (Ph. L. 1836.) “ Its specific gravity does not exceed '750. Ex- posed to the air, it volatilizes. It turns litmus 38