323 BLACK LEAD—BLACK PIGMENTS. ‘ small way,’ at home. When the articles are I only re-dipped,’ as it is called, a proportion- i ately smaller quantity of the ingredients may be taken. I Concluding Remarks. In dyeing black, par- ticularly on wool, it is absolutely necessary to ii take the ‘ goods’ out of the dye-bath several ' times, and to expose them to the air. This is [i called “ airing" them, and is done to allow the i| oxygen of the atmosphere to act upon the I ingredients of the dye, and especially on the j iron; as without this action of the air a good colour cannot be produced. The usual propor- tions employed by the dyers of England are 1 hlb. each of galls and copperas, and 30/6. of [| logwood, for every cwt. of cloth; but these ; weights are frequently increased for choice goods, just as they are always lessened for , common ones. The other astringent suh- ! stances used as substitutes for galls in dyeing ; black, are taken in quantities proportionate to , their respective strengths, that of good Aleppo gall-nuts being referred to as a standard. The German wool-dyers usually commence j their process with a mordant of Salzburgh I vitriol (3 parts) and argol (1 p.); and after exposure of the goods, in a cool place, for 1 24 hours, work them in a hath of logwood j (5 to 6 p.) and fustic (2 p.); after which the I hath is restored by the addition of verdigris : G P-) dissolved in vinegar, and the goods again I worked through it for about ^ an hour. : This is for 20 parts weight of wool or cloth. Black merinos are usually ‘mordanted’ (hot) with about -^^th of their weight of copperas, and then aired for 24 hours; after which they , are dyed in a boiling bath made with about 1 i their weight of logwood with the addition ! of about 2g of argol or tartar. As black is the shade most commonly at- tempted by amateur dyers, it may be here necessary to call their attention to what is I said on * mixed fabrics' in our article on DYEING-; since an inattention to this point will inevitably cause the failure of their efforts. According to Muspratt,^ a mixed fabric of SILK and WOOLLEN may he dyed black, by I 'one process,’ as follows:—W^ork the ‘goods’ I an hour in a solution of 8 oz. each of tartar and copperas, and wash out; work for 15 minutes in a decoction of 4 lb. of logwood ; lift, add 1 oz. I of bichromate of potash, work for ^ an hour, j and dry. And a mixed fabric of cotton, silk, and WOOLLEN:—Steep for six hours in a bath ' made of 2 lb. of sumach ; then ‘ work’ for an hour in a solution of 6 oz. each of tartar, sul- phate of copper, and copperas; wash, and . ‘work’ I an hour in a decoction of 4 lb. of logwood ; lift, add to the hath 1 oz. of copperas; work ten minutes, wash, and dry. If a very deep black be required, 1 lb. of bark is to be ' added with the logwood. See Dyeing, Mor- dants, &c. BLACK LEAD (led). See Plumbago. BLACK PIG'MENTS. Syn. Pigmen'ta ni'- 1 “ Chemistryp vol. i, p. 6f>7. GRA,L. The principal i/ac^j»i^mcn/sof commerce are obtained by carbonising organic substances (particularly bones), by exposure to a dull red- heat, in covered vessels out of contact with the air or by collecting the soot formed during the combustion of unctuous, resinous, and bituminous matters? Artists and amateurs also prepare, on the small scale, a variety of‘blacks,’ many of which are not procurable at the colour-shops. This they effect either by the carbonisation of substances not usually em- ployed for the purpose, or by simply reducing to powder certain mineral productions selected on account of the peculiar shades of colour which they respectively possess. Some of the last might, however, be more appropriately classed with ‘ browns’ The following list embraces most of these articles:— An'imal-Black. Bone-black. Beech'-Black. Carbonised beech-wood. Blue'-Black. Vine-twigs dried and then care- fully carbonised, in covered vessels, until of the proper shade. That of the ancients was made of wine-lees. Pit-coal, carefully burnt at a white-heat, then quenched in water, dried, and well ground, forms a cheap, good, and durable blue-black, fit for most ordinary purposes. See Feankeoet-black {infra). Bone'-Black. Syn. I'voey-black (of com- merce)-, Car'bo os'sis. Os tjs'tdm ni'geum, E'bde d. n. (vena'le), &c., L,; Noie d’os, &c., Fr.; Knochenschwaetz, &c., Ger. Carbon- ised bones reduced to powder. That of com- merce is usually the residuum of the distillation of ‘ bone-spirit.’ Inferior to true ivory-black ; having a slight, but peculiar reddish tinge, from which the latter is quite free. Besides its use as a pigment, it is extensively employed in making blacking, as a material for the moulds of founders, as a clarifier and bleacher of liquids, &c. See Ivoey-black {infra), and Animal Charcoal. Cas'sel-Black, Cologne’-Black. Ivory- black. Coal'-Black. See Blue-black and New- castle-black. Composi"tion-Black(-zish'-un-.) The selected portion of the residuum of the process of making prussiate of potash from blood and hoofs.—Used both as a pigment, and to de- colour organic solutions, which it does better than bone-black. Cork'-Black. Spanish-black. Flo"rey-Black, Florte d’Inde. The dried scum of the dyer’s woad-bath. A superior blue-black. Frank'fort-Black, iVb/r de Francfort. From vine-twigs dried, carbonised to a full-black, and then ground very fine. An excellent black pigment; also used by the copper-plate printers to make their ink. See Blue-black {antF). Harts'horn-Black. Resembles ivory-black, which is now usually sold for it. It was for- 2 Bone-black, Ivory black, Frankfort-black, 3 Lamp-black.