789 IRON. and silicon present in the wire having been removed by the oxygen of the black oxide. (Mitscherlich.) Iron filings (feeei limatur^e), iron-turnings (ferri ramejstta, ferri scobs), iron powder (Qtjevenne’s TEon; ferrijm ptjlyis), and iron wire (ferrum filbm, f. in fila trac- TUM—Ph. L.), are the forms under which the iron is ordered in the Pharmacopoeias. The last should be “flexible, but not resilient.^" (Ph. L.) For medical purposes, iron-fllings and turnings should he purifled by washing, drying, and separating them from particles of copper and other metals, by laying a sieve over them, and drawing them through it with a magnet. Dose. Of the filings, 5 to 10 gr.; of the powder, 5 to 20 gr. Prop., Sfc. The properties and uses of iron are too well known to require description. Its applications are almost universal. It is remarkably ductile, and possesses great tena- city, but is less malleable than many of the other metals. Its sp. gr. is 7'844. It is the hardest of all the malleable and ductile metals, and when combined with carbon (steel) admits of being tempered to almost any degree of hardness or elasticity. In dry air it does not oxidize at common tempera- tures ; hut at a red heat it soon becomes covered with a scaly coating of black oxide, and at an intense white heat burns brilliantly with the production of the same substance. Pure water, free from air or carbonic acid, does not tarnish the surface of polished iron, but the combined action of air and moisture, especially when a little acid vapour is present, causes its surface to be soon covered with ‘ rust,^ which is hydrated sesquioxide of iron. Nearly all the hydrated acids attack iron; dilute sulphuric and hydrochloric acid do so with considerable energy and the evolution of hydrogen gas. Under certain circumstances, however, iron assumes what is termed the * passive condition^ and resists the action of strong nitric acid. At a red heat iron decom- poses water rapidly, hydrogen being evolved, and the black oxide of iron formed. Iron is magnetic up to a dull-red heat, at which point it loses all traces of that property. It melts at 3300° Fahr. (Daniel.) With oxygen, chlorine, iodine, the acids, &c., it forms nu- merous important compounds. As a remedial agent, when properly exhibited, iron acts as a genial stimulant and tonic, and generally proves beneficial in cases of chronic debility, unaccompanied with organic congestion or in- flammation. The protocarbonate, as it exists in mineral waters, held in solution by carbonic acid in excess, appears to be the form most congenial to the human body; and from its state of dilution “ is rapidly absorbed by the lacteals, and speedily imparts a ruddy hue to the wan countenance.^^ Iron is undoubtedly one of the most valuable articles of the ma- teria medica, and appears from the antiquity of its introduction into medicine, and the number of its preparations, to have been de- servedly appreciated. Tests. 1. Metallic iron is—a. Attracted by the magnet.—b. Dissolved by dilute hydro- chloric and sulphuric acids, with evolution of hydrogen gas, recognised by its inflamma- bility.—c. The solution in b exhibits the usual reactions of protoxide of iron. (See 3, below.) 2. Dry protoxide of iron, which is only ob- tained pure with extreme difficulty, is black, and has frequently a metallic lustre; in its hydrated state, when pure> it is white ; but by contact with the atmosphere it speedily be- comes coloured—first grag, then green, then bluish-black, and finally yellow. 3. The salts of the protoxide have a greenish colour, but yield nearly colourless solutions, except when concentrated. Their solutions are known by the following reactions:—a. They are not precipitated by sulphuretted hy- drogen when acid, and but incompletely when neutral.—b. Hydrosulphuret of ammonia pro- duces a black precipitate, becoming brown on exposure to the air, insoluble in alkalies, but easily soluble in the mineral acids,—c. Ammonia and potassa give a greenish-white precipitate, gradually becoming green, and then brown in the air. The presence of ammoniacal salts in- terferes with the action of these tests.—d. Ferrocyanide of potassium gives a nearly white precipitate, becoming gradually blue in the air, and immediately so on the addition of a little weak nitric acid or chlorine water.—e. Ferricyanide of potassium produces a rich deep-blue precipitate, insoluble in hydrochloric acid. In highly dilute solutions the efiect is only a deep ffiuish-green coloration.—^. Phos- phate of soda produces a white precipitate, which after a time becomes green. 4. Sesquioxide of iron is generally met with as a brownish-black or brownish-red powder; in its hydrated form it is very soluble in acids; when anhydrous, less so. 5. The salts of sesquioxide or peroxide of iron have for the most part a reddish-yellow colour, yielding deep-coloured solutions, which exhibit the following reactions:—a. They redden litmus paper.—b. Sulphuretted hy- drogen added to alkaline solutions gives a black precipitate.—c. Hydrosulphuret of am- monia does the same with neutral solutions, or in very dilute solutions only a blackish- green discoloration, the precipitate being in both cases soluble in the hydrochloric and acetic acids.—d. Ammonia and potassa pro- duce bulky reddish-brown precipitates, insoluble in excess.—e. Ferrocyanide of potassium gives a rich blue precipitate, insoluble in hydro- chloric acid, and readily decomposed by po- tassa.—/. Ferricyanide of potassium deepens the colour, but does not give a blue precipi- tate, as it does with the protoxide.—g. Sul- phocyanide of potassium gives an intense ruby- red colour to neutral or acid solutions. This is the most sensitive of all known tests.—h. Tincture and infusion of galls strike a black