1182 SALIFIABLE BASES—SALT. moisture by careful distillation from chloride of calcium. 2. (From salicin.) (See juaye 981.) The product is 25g. (Ettling.) Prop,, Sfc. Salicylous acid is soluble in ether and alcohol, and slightly so in water, to which it imparts its peculiar fragrance and the cha- racteristic property of striking a deep violet colour with the sesquisalts of iron. It is dis- tinguished from SALICYLIC ACID, which also exhibits this reaction, by its liquid form, and odour. Salicylous. acid combines with the bases to form SALICYLITES, of which the following are the principal:—Salicylite of ammonia ; un- stable yellow needles:—Salicylite of ba- ryta ; yellow acicular crystals, slightly soluble in cold water:—Salicylite of copper; a green insoluble powder, yielding some curious products by destructive distillation:—Sali- cylite of potassa; large, square, golden- yellow tables, permanent in the air when dry, and soluble in both water and alcohol, with aij alkaline reaction. It also forms several highly interesting compounds with iodine, bromine, chlorine, &c. SALIFIABLE BASES. Substances which, by combination with the acids, &c., form salts. SALIGENTEf. A substance formed, along with GRAPE SUGAR, by the action of the emul- sion or synaptase of sweet almonds, or of dilute acids, on salicin. It forms colourless, pearly scales, which are freely soluble in water, alco- hol, and ether; it melts at 180° Fahr., and is decomposed at a higher temperature. When boiled in dilute acids, it is converted into a resinous-looking substance, called saliretin. Its aqueous solution strikes a deep blue with the sesquisalts of iron. Chlorosaligenin, BICHLOROSALIGENIN, and other interesting compounds have been formed. SALIRE'TIN. See Salicin, and above. SALI'VA. See Mastication. SALM'ON. Syn. Salmo, L. The Salmo Solar (Linn.), a well-known, soft-finned abdo- minal fish. Its normal locality is at the mouth or estuary of the larger rivers of the northern seas, which, during the breeding season, it ascends, sooner or later, in the summer months, against all obstseles, for the purpose of depo- siting its spawn. The salmon is an excellent and highly es- teemed fish; but it is rich, oily, and difficult of digestion, and, therefore, ill adapted to the delicate or dyspeptic. When pickled, salted, or smoked, it is only fitted for persons of very strong stomachs, although in this state it is regarded as a great delicacy by epicures. Salmon is preferably cooked by boiling. One weighing 10 lb. will require to be gently sim- mered for about an hour, reckoning fi’om the time the water commences boiling. For fish of other weights, from 6 to 7 minutes per lb. may be allowed. See Fish, &c. SALOOF'. Sassafras (chips) tea, flavoured with milk and sugar. A wholesome and useful drink in cutaneous and rheumatic aftectiis. See Salep. SALT. Syn. Sal, L.; Sel, Fr. Ac i- pound of an acid with a salifiable base, cjf a ^salt-radicle’ (bromine, chlorine, fluou, &c.), with a metal. The names of the salts e derived from the acids which they conl i, followed by that of the base; as sulphai >jf soda, a compound of sulphuric acid and s< ; sulphite of lime, a compound of sulphurous d and lime. Neutral salts are such as i- tain as many equivalents of acid as there e of oxygen in the base; thus, a protoxide reqi s but a single equiv. of acid to neutralize:, while a sesquioxide requires not less tha3 equivs. Basic-, or subsalts, are such as i- tain an excess of base over the acid; ACii r SUPERSALTS, such as contain more acid thj .s required to form a neutral compound.' Double salts are combinations of two i of the same acid, but of different bases, w k crystallize together. Hydrous or hydra o SALTS are such as contain water of cry; • lization, or combined water; anhydb s SALTS those that are destitute of water. '• LIQUESCENT SALTS are those that attract n ;- ture from the atmosphere; effloeesc i SALTS, such as part with their combined wi •, and become opaque and pulverulent, ui r like circumstances. The salts formed by e direct union of the metals with salt-rad 8 (bromine, chlorine, iodine, &c.), of which :- Unary salt and iodide of potassium are v l- known examples, are termed haloid sa!. The salts of the hydracids belong to this c j. OxYSALTS are those which, like nitrat f potassa (nitre) and sulphate of magnesia (Ep n salt), are supposed to be simple combinat ( of an acid with an oxide or base. Sulpe t- SALTS are such as contain sulphur in the p e of oxygen, and which are usually formed y the union of a protosulphuret of an alki e metal {sulphur base) with a higher sulph of a non-metallic substance, or of and whose protoxide is a feeble base (sulphur a ). The name ternary salt has been applie o those which consist of two single membe: one class and one member of another; sue is the boro-fluorides, hydrargyro-chlorides, so >• chloride of gold, &c. The salts are a most important clas)f bodies, and their applications and uses in le arts of life and civilization are almost infil l-** See Nomenclature, &c. Bitter Pur'ging Salt. Epsom salt. Cathar'tic Salt. Of Glauber, Sulphate soda; English or bitter s., sulphate of i j* nesia (Epsom salt). Common Salt. Syn. Culinary salt. C > ride of sodium. Biuret'ic Salt. Acetate of potassa. Ep'som Salt. Sulphate of magnesia. Feb'rifuge Salt. Chloride of potassium, Fu' 'sible Salt. Phosphate of ammonia. 1 The acid-salts ought strictly to be consider! AS double salts, in which one of the bases is water.