890 CANNON METAL—CAOUTCHOUC. macerate in a warm place for 2 hours, strain, add lump and moist sugar, of each, 5 lb., and boil to a candy. 2. Ginger (in very fine powder), 1 oz.; powdered sugar, 2 lb.; syrup, q. s. to make a paste. Stomachic and carminative. For various sweetmeats which might come under the head of Candy, see Confections, Deops. CAN'NON MET'AL. See Gun Metal. CANTHAKTDES. &yn. Spanish flies, Blisteeing- f., Lyt't^; CanthaeTs, Ph. L. E. & D. The Cantharis vesicatoria of Latreille, commonly known as the Spanish fly, is an insect of the order Coleoptera; it abounds in the south of France, Spain, and Italy; and has spread into Germany and the south of Russia. When alive it exudes a strong fetid and penetrating odour. Pur., 8fc. These insects should he preserved in well-closed bottles or tin canisters. The addition of a few drops of oil of cloves, or of strong acetic acid, or even a few cloves in sub- stance, will preserve them unchanged for a length of time in close vessels. The best proof of their goodness is the smell. The powder is constantly adulterated. The plan of the wholesale druggists is to sort out the most worthless flies for powdering, and to com- pensate for their deficiency of vesicating power, by adding 1 lb. of euphorbium to every 12 or 13 lb. of flies. When a stiperior article is required, liquorice powder is added (4 or 5 lb. to every 14 Ib^, along with about 1 lb. of euphorbium, and sufficient blue black or char- coal to turn the yellow of the liquorice to a greenish colour. The best mode of detecting this adulteration is by the microscope. Ant. An emetic of sulphate of zinc^ fol- lowed by the stomach pump, if necessary. The vomiting may he promoted by copiously drinking warm bland diluents, such as broth, linseed tea, milk, &c. Friction on the spine, with volatile liniment and laudanum, and the subsequent administration of draughts con- taining musk, opium, and camphorated emul- sion, have been strongly recommended. Tests. By the microscope, very minute par- ticles may be discovered in the stomach and intestines, on a post-mortem examination. Orfila thus found particles of cantharides in a body that had been interred 9 months. Uses, 4'e. Sj)anish flies are used externally, to raise blisters, and internally, as a stimulant and diuretic, generally in the form of tincture. In excess they produce strangury, bloody urine, satyriasis, delirium, convulsions, and death. See Tinctuees, Vesicants, &c. CANTHAE'IDDTE. See Vesicatoeine. CAOUT'CHOUC. Syn. India eubbee. Elas- tic GUM. India rubber is the concrete juice of the Ficus elastica, Siphonia elastica, the Urceola elastica, and many other tropical plants. The fresh milky juice is spread over moulds of unbaked clay, and is then exposed to the heat and smoke of a fire, or torches, to dry it, whence it derives its dark colour. Sue- 11 cessive coats of juice are laid on, and the ope- ' occ ration of drying repeated, until the bottles ac- S fai quire sufficient thickness. When it has become “il thoroughly hard and dry, the clay is beaten ^ ir. out. In this form it is commonly imported. ‘ jc Prop., 6^c. The general properties of India i' rubber, as well as its numerous applications, I ie; are well known. The fresh juice has a cream- ' ef like appearance and consistence, is coagulated tv by heat, and is miscible with water, alcohol, }Ii and wood naphtha; sp. gr. 1'012 to 1‘041; it lai yields from 18^ to ASg of solid caoutchouc, f either by heat or evaporation. By excluding k it from the air, it may be preserved unchanged of for a considerable period. (i Solid caoutchouc has a sp. gr. ranging be- ft tween ‘919 and ‘941; it melts at 248® Fahr. (le into a viscid mass, which does not again harden ft on cooling ; it is unaltered by chlorine, hydro- jf chloric acid, sulphurous acid, fluosilicic acid, ' ft ammonia, caustic alkaline lyes (even when j] boiling), and most similar substances; nitric acid and sulphuric acid act on it only by long i « contact when concentrated. Some specimens u of caoutchouc are harder than gutta peecha ed itself, and equally inelastic, whilst others never ft perfectly solidify, but remain in a condition v fc resembling that of birdlime or printers’ i tii varnish. ft The best solvents of caoutchouc are rectified sulphuric ether (which has been washed with n water to remove alcohol and acidity), chloro- U form, bisulphuret of carbon, a mixture of hi- ■ f( sulphuret of carbon and absolute alcohol (94 I ^ of the first to 6 or 7 of the last), and caout- i choucine. All these liquids dissolve India it rubber rapidly in the cold, and leave it unal- \t tered on evaporation. The first two are, how- fj ever, too expensive to be generally employed. ] p] The others have a disagreeable odonr, but | ft are much cheaper than the rest, and possess ',[ the advantage of leaving the film of caoutchouc i, in a firmer and stronger condition than other ,[ solvents. Pyrogenous oil of turpentine is g| another cheap and good solvent. Benzole, ft rectified mineral or coal-tar naphtha, crude ) ft petroleum, and oil of turpentine, dissolve India " ( ft rubber by long digestion and trituration, (with |l heat,) otherwise they merely form with it a j glutinous jelly thaA dries very slowly and im- j, perfectly, leaving it much reduced in hardness and elasticity. The fats and fixed oils also readily dissolve caoutchouc (with heat), i forming permanently glutinous solutions or pastes; so also do most of the volatile oils, but i the solutions with the majority of them dry | with difficulty. One of the most remarkable properties of India rubber is the great amount of heat ' which is disengaged during its condensation by pressure or in the exercise of its elasticity. ' During the process of kneading the raw caout- chouc in the masticators,” the cold water \' thrown in to reduce the temperature soon ^. becomes boiling hot. When no water is added,