ELAIDINE—ELATERIUM. 642 washed with Ao/ water^ and then dissolved in an equal volume of hot alcohol. The crystals deposited as the liquor cools are purified by pressure, re-solution, and re-crystallization. ELA'IDINE. A fatty compound of eldidic acid and glycerine, formed by the action of nitrous acid or nitrate of mercury on olive oil. It is neutral j melts at 90° Fahr. j and is very soluble in ether, scarcely so in alcohol. It is one of the components of citeijce ointment. By saponification it is resolved into its two constituents. ELAINE. See Oleine. ELAIOM'ETER. Syn. Oleom'etee. An | instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity 1 of oils. See Hydrometee and Oil. j ELAL'DEHYDE. A peculiar crystalline substance which forms in aldehyde when kept for some weeks at a temperature of 32° Fahr. It melts into a colourless liquid at about 38°, in which state it is miscible with water, alcohol, and ether. It is isomeric with aldehyde, but its vapour has about three times the density of that substance, whilst it neither combines with ammonia nor comports itself Avith potassa and solution of silver like alde- hyde. ELAOP'TENE. See Oil (volatile). ELAT'ERINE. Syn. Momoedicine. The active principle of elateeidm. It was dis- covered by Dr. Clutterbuck in 1819, but first obtained in a state of purity in 1830, by the late Mr. Hennel. Prep. 1. (Dr. Morries.) Elaterium is di- gested in hot alcohol, the resulting tincture filtered, evaporated to the consistence of thin oil, and then thrown into boiling distilled water; when the whole is cold, the precipitate is collected and purified by redissolving it in alcohol and precipitation by water, as before. 2. (Hennel.) The alcoholic extract of ela- terium is digested in ether, and the residuum dissolved in hot alcohol; crystals form as the solution cools. 3. An alcoholic tincture is evaporated to I the consistence of a syrup, and thrown into a ' mixture of equal parts of liquor of potassa and water at a boiling temperature. Almost pure ■ elaterine separates as the liquid cools. j Obs. Elaterine forms delicate, white, silky j crystals, having a bitter taste j it is fusible at i about 365° Fahr.; tastes bitter; odourless; neutral; insoluble in water; and dissolves readily in hot alcohol. Its medicinal action is similar to that of elaterium, differing only in its greater activity. Dose. Jg gr. to gr. ELATERIUM." Syn. Sqdieting cucumbee. In pharmacy, ‘the fresh unripe fruit^ of the wild cucumber, * Ecbalium officinarum — Richard,^ Ph. L. (Momordica Elaterium, Linn.). Accord- ing to present usage, the word is more gene- rally applied to the feculence deposited from the juice of the wild cucumber. It is thus applied in Ph. E. & D. (See below.) | Elaterium. Syn. Extract of elaterium, E. OF SQUIRTING CUCUMBEE; ExTRACTUM | ELATEEii (Ph. L.), Elaterium (Ph. E. & D.), L. The feculence of the juice of the above fruit. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Slice wild cucumber before it is quite ripe in the long direction, and strain the juice, very gently expressed, through a fine hair sieve; then set it aside for some hours, until the thicker part has subsided. The thinner supernatant fluid being rejected, dry the thicker portion with a gentle heat. The processes of the other colleges are essen- tially the same.^ 2. (Dr. Clutterbuck.) The cucumbers (fully ripe) are cut longitudinally, and sprinkled with cold water, and the juice allowed to strain through a fine sieve into an earthenware vessel. The seeds and surrounding pulp are next placed on the sieve, Avith the split fruit, and washed repeatedly with cold water. The icashings being received in the same vessel with the juice, the Avhole is allowed to repose for.a feAv hours, when the clear portion is decanted and the sediment spread thinly on fine linen, and dried by exposure to the air and a gentle heat, avoiding the sunshine or a bright light. Quality very fine. Forty fruits, by this pro- cess, yield only 6 gr. of elaterium. 3. (Apothecaries’ Hall.) The fruit, slit into halves, is placed in hempen or horsehair bags, and submitted to slight pressure in a tincture press. The juice, as it runs oflT, passes through a fine hair sieve into a cylindrical glass jug or jar, Avhere it is allowed to remain for tAVO hours, Avhen the clear supernatant liquor is poured off, and the thick portion con- taining the sediment is poured on a paper filter, supported on linen, and alloAA'ed to drain, after which it is dried by a gentle heat in a stove. The product has a green colour, and constitutes the finest elaterium of commerce. A darker and inferior article is obtained from the liquor, poured from the first sediment by placing it in shallow pans and alloAving it again to deposit. Prop., S;c. Elaterium is sold in thin cakes, and Avhen pure has a pale-gray or greenish- gray colour, floats on water, is easily pulverized by pressure, and forms Avith rectified spirit a rich, green-coloured tincture. Elaterium ob- tained as a second deposit (elaterium ni- grum), is dark and inferior. Alcohol dissolves from 50g to 60g of good elaterium. “When exhausted by rectified spirit, the solution, concentrated, and poured into hot dilute so- lution of potassa, deposits, on cooling, minute silky, colourless crystals (of elaterine), weighing from |th to ^th of the elaterium operated on.” (Ph. E.) Obs. To procure a fine sample of elaterium, it is necessary to remove it as soon as it is 1 At the Mitcliam Gardens, Elaterium is manufactured in much the same way, only that considerable force is used in the expression of the juice, and the product there- fore less potent, though more in quantity. The manu- facture usually commences about the second week in September. (Dr. Royle.)