XANTHATES—XYLOIDIN. 1354 5. (Horning.) Perchloride of iron, 4 parts; quired, to prevent the fluid spreading on water, 750 parts; dissolve, add of cyanide of the paper[; but in most cases the addition is potassium, 4 parts, dissolved in a little water ; collect the precipitate, wash it with several effusions of pure water, allow it to drain until it weighs about 200 parts, then add of oxalic acid, 1 part; and promote solution by agitat- ing the bottle or vessel containing it. 6. (Mohr.) Pure Prussian blue, 6 parts; oxalic acid, 1 part; triturate with a little water to a perfectly smooth paste, then dilute the mass with a proper quantity of soft water. The product resembles Stephen’s ‘ patent BLFE INK.’ 7. (Rev. J. B. Reade—patented.)—a. A solution of his patent soluble Prussian blue in distilled water. Blue. b. Prepared by adding to good gall ink a strong solution of his soluble Prussian blue. This addition “ makes the ink, which was pre- viously proof against alkalies, equally proof against acids, and forms a writing fluid which cannot be erased from paper by any common method of fraudulent obliteration without the destruction of the paper.” This ink writes greenish blue, but afterwards turns intensely black. Stephen’s ‘ patent ink,’ which does the same, is a similar compound. 8. (Prof. Runge—cheomic ink.) Logwood, in fine chips, \ lb.; boiling water, 3 pints; digest for 12 hours, then simmer the liquid down gently to 1 quart, carefully observing to avoid dust, grease, and smoke; when cold, decant the decoction, and add to it of yellow chromate of potash, 20 gr.; dissolve by agi- tation, after which it will be fit for use. Cheap and good. It resists the action of all ordinary destructive agents better than the tanno-gallic inks; it may be washed after use with a wet sponge, or steeped for twenty-four hours in water, or even tested with dilute acids, and yet preserve its original blackness^ It is perfectly liquid, it scarcely thickens by age, and neither deposits a sediment nor cor- rodes steel pens. 9. (Ure.) Prom vanadate of ammonia de- composed with inf usion of galls. It is of a perfectly black hue, flows freely from the pen, is rendered blue by acids, is unaffected by dilute alkaline solutions, and resists the action of chlorine. Obs. The preceding formulae, under proper management, produce excellent products, all of which are extremely mobile, and most' of them of a more or less beautiful colour. The blue ones, when concentrated, dry of a blue black, whilst two or three of the others, though at first pale, rapidly pass into a deep black, when exposed to the air. Care must be taken in all cases that the ingredients be pure. The Prussian blue, except when directly prepared for the purpose, should be washed in dilute hydrochloric acid before attempting its solution by means of oxalic acid. Unless these precautions are attended to, success is unlikely. - A little gum may be added, if re- no improvement. Most of the blue eluids may be used as ‘indelible ink’ to mark linen, and will be found very permanent, pro- vided the part be first moistened with alum water, and dried. XAN'THATES. See below. XANTHIC ACID. A peculiar acid, com- posed of sulphur, carbon, hydrogen, and oxy- gen, discovered by Zeise. Prep. Dry xanthate of pot assa is mixed with I dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid; after a time a milky liquid is formed, from which, by the addition of more water, a heavy oily sub- stance is deposited, which is quickly washed j with water, and dried by standing over chlo- 1 ride of calcium; this is called hydeated XANTHIC ACID. | Prop., Sfc. A nearly colourless, inflamma- i ble, oily liquid, having a bitter taste, and a ! peculiar, penetrating, disagreeable odour. It ; is decomposed into alcohol and bisulphuret of j carbon at a temperature above 75° Fahr. The ' compounds of xanthic acid are mostly of a i yellow colour; hence its name.—Xanthate OE POTASSA is obtained by adding bisulphuret i of carbon to a solution oifused caustic potassa, i 1 part, in alcohol, sp. gr. *800, 12 parts, as ■ long as it is dissolved; by cooling the solution j to 0° Fahr., the salt separates as a semi-solid mass of brilliant, slender, colourless, prismatic i crystals, which, after being washed with ether, and pressed between bibulous paper, must be dried out of contact with the air. Soluble in water and alcohol; insoluble in ether; decom- posed by exposure to the air. The xanthates of SODA, POTASSA, and BAEYTA, are soluble and crystallizable; those of lead, meecuey, and ZINC, white and nearly insoluble; that of LIME is uncrystallizable; that of COPPEE is a flocculent, insoluble substance, of a rich yellow colour. ^ XANTHIH. The name given by Kuhlmann to the yellow tinctorial principle of madder. XAN'THINE. Syn. Xanthic oxide. A i peculiar substance, found by Dr. Marcet in a urinary calculus, and so named from its solution f in nitric acid furnishing a deep yellow coloured residuum on evaporation. XYLOID'IN. When starch is immersed in concentrated nitric acid (sp. gr. 1'45 to 1*50), it is converted, without disengagement of gas, into a colourless, tremulous jelly, which, when treated with an excess of water, yields a white, curdy, insoluble substance, which, after being edulcorated with pure water, until every trace of acid is removed, is xyloidin. Paper, sugar, gum, mannite, and several other substances, treated in the same manner, become in great part changed to xyloidin or analogous com- pounds. Obs. Pure xyloidin differs but slightly from pyeoxylin, or pure gun-cotton.