102 ALKALIMETRY. drops of solution of diacetate of lead,i (if ' sulphurets’or ‘ sulphites’ are present), giving, after filtration or subsidence, a brown preci- pitate with nitrate of silver. This examina- tion is, however, generally unnecessary, as caustic alkali may always he safely assumed to be present in all the crude samples of com- merce, and particularly in crude ‘ British al- kali’ and ‘ soda-ash,’ and in American ‘ black salts,’ ‘potashes,’ and ‘pearlash.’ The quan- tity may he determined by one or other of the following methods:— 1. (M. Barreswill.) A solution of chloride of barium is added, in excess, to a solution of the sample under examination, and the whole is fil- tered; precipitate of carbonate ofbaryta left on the filter is washed with a little water, and i\\Q filtrate and the washings placed in a deep glass-tube; a stream of carbonic acid gas is then passed through the mixed liquor, until it ceases to occasion a precipitate of carbonate of baryta. This last precipitate is separated on a filter, washed, dried, and weighed. Each grain represents *315 gr. of real or anhydrous soda, or *477 gr. of anhydrous pot ass A. 2. (Fresenius.) The total amount of pure alkali, both ‘ caustic ’ and ‘ carbonated,’ ex- pressed in ‘ per-cents. ’ of carbonate of soda or carbonate of potassa, is ascertained by any of the usual methods. The apparent quantity of alkali per cent., is then determined by II. a, or II. b, ‘without’ previous treatment of the The weight of Conslcu Anhydr. carb. of soda . . x ' i) » • • X Anhydr. carb. of potassa . x ' ,, „ . . X sample with ‘ carbonate of ammonia,’ as there ordered. The difference between the results indicates the p)er-centage of dry caustic alkali present. 3. (Ure.) Add the first portions of the test-acid very gradually to the sample, care- fully observing the effect. When the effer- vescence at length commences, the weight or measure of the test-liquor expended shews the quantity of pure CAUSTIC alkali under treat- ment (nearly). The result depends upon the fact, that little or no carbonic acid gas is ex- pelled from the liquid on the addition of the test-acid, until the caustic portion is very nearly neutralised. The quantity of watee or moistuee, per cent., present in an alkaline carbonate, is indi- cated by the Uoss’ of weight which 100 gr. suffer on gentle ignition in a loosely covered iron-dish or p>latinum-crucible. So also with samples containing caustic alkali, except that here, the ‘ water of hydration’ (= 1 equiv. = 9) is not expelled from the ‘caustic’ portion, and must, fherefore, be determined by calculation. See Table I., p. 96. The detection of SODA (as an ‘ adulterant ’) in samples of potassa, and the estimation of the quantity of the cheaper alkali, is explained in the article on Potassa (which see). The following equations will also often prove useful in the laboratory :—> ■t iMiUipliet'S. 5849 = anhydr. caustic soda. 7547 = hydrate of soda. 6817 = anhydr. caustic potassa. 8119 = hydrate of potassa. Other matters deserving the serious atten- tion of the operator, are—hitting the exact point of neutralisation, and—preparing the test-acids of the proper strength. The method of effecting the former correctly, has been .already referred to in this article, and is also fully noticed under Acetimetey and Acidi- METEY {p. 22-5,31-7, &c.). To what is there said we may now add, that Descroizilles, the ‘ father of alkalimetry,’ having added his test-acid until syrup of violets began to be slightly reddened by the liquid (in the cold), reckoned one of his alkalimeter-degrees less than was actually consumed, to compensate for over-saturation; an allowance now thought to Idc much too large. Test-acids may be very simply by gradually diluting concentrated sulphuric acid with water until it is reduced to the proper strength; the dilution being made in a glass vessel containing a ‘ hydrostatic bead’ exactly corresponding to the desired specific gravity of the dilute acid. When the proper point is reached, and the mixture has again acquired I The addition should be naide drop by drop ; and if the liquor is not darkened bythc^/fr^^ dro]), no more should be added. the normal temperature of 60° Fahr., the bead rises from the bottom of the vessel and floats about indifferently in the middle of the liquid. The sp. gr. may then be carefully ascertained by means of an hydrometer or a specific gra- vity bottle; after which the strength must be accurately determined by means of a standard solution of either pure anhydrous carbonate of soda or pure caustic soda. An acid of any given strength or saturating power may also be pre- pared in the following manner :—49 parts of commercial sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol), sp. gr. 1*825, contain nearly 40 parts or 1 equiv. of an- hydrous sulphuric acid ; if we, therefore, wish to prepare a dilute acid containing in every 1000 grains weight, or measure, exactly 1 equiv. of ‘ real sulphuric acid,’ we have only to make 49 gr. of such acid up to 1000 gr. weight or measure, with pure wafer. After it has reco- vered the proper temperature, its sp. gr., or rather its saturating power, must be carefully tried, and if necessary, re-adjusted. As, how- ever, it very often happens that the ‘ oil of vitriol’ employed is not so strong as that above referred to, it is better first to test its strength with pure anhydrous carbonate of soda, and to