I STEARIN— STERLING. iind au earthy soap is formed, when the whole 13 allowed to cool; the product (steaeate of |jIMe) is then transferred to another wooden i vessel, and decomposed hy adding to it 4 parts )f oil of vitriol (diluted with water) for every 1 parts of slaked lime previously employed, the iction being promoted hy steam heat and )risk agitation; after repose, the liberated fat s decanted from the sediment (sulphate of jIMe) and water, and is then well washed with oater, and by blowing steam into it; it is next jdlowed to cool, when it is reduced to shavings jjy means of a number of knives worked by juachinery, and in this divided state is placed , n canvas bags and submitted to the action of ji powerful hydraulic press, by which a large portion of the oleic acid which it contains is jjxpelled j the pressed cakes are then a second ^dme exposed to the action of steam and water, )gain cooled, and coarsely powdered, and again mhmitted to the joint action of steam and oressure ; they are, lastly, melted, and cast into olocks for sale. I Obs. This product is a more or less impure imixture of steaeic acid and other fatty bodies, particularly the so-called maegaeic IA.CID, now generally regarded as a mixture of palmitic and stearic acids (see page 886). The Mrd fatty acids of vegetable origin (palmitic, jcociNic, MTEiSTic, &c.), now SO extensively jused as candle materials, are obtained from 'the natural oils and butters by the process iknown as ‘sulphuric acid saponification* which consists in treating the fatty bodies with 5 or 6g of concentrated sulphuric acid at a high tem- perature (about 350° Fahr., produced by su- iperheated steam), and distilling the resulting mass by the aid of steam heated to about 560° iFahr. Frequently the operations of hot and \cold pressing are resorted to in order to free ;the product from the softer fats. I By a patent process employed at Price’s i candle works the natural vegetable fats are decomposed into their constituents (fatty ACIDS and GLTCEEIn) hy the action of super- heated steam alone, without previous ‘saponi- ification,’ with lime or sulphuric acid. Prop., S(c. Pure stearic acid crystallizes in milk-white needles, which are soluble in ether and in cold alcohol, and form salts with the bases, called steaeates. The commercial acid is made into candles. See Candles, Fat, I Oils (Fixed), and Tallow. I STE'ARIN. The solid portion of fats which I is insoluble in cold alcohol. I Prep. Pure strained mutton suet is melted in a glass flask along with 7 or 8 times its [weight of ether, and the solution allowed to i cool; the soft, pasty, semi-crystalline mass is I then transferred to a cloth, and is strongly i pressed as rapidly as possible, in order to avoid I unnecessary evaporation; the solid portion is I then redissolved in ether, and the solution al- 1 lowed to crystallize, as before. The product j is nearly pure. I Prop., ^c. White; semi-crystalline ; inso- 1239 luble in water and cold alcohol; soluble in 225 parts of cold ether, and freely so in boil- ing ether. It melts at 130° Fahr. The stearin of commerce is steaeic acid. STEAROP'TENE. The name given hy Her- berger to the concrete portion or camphor of volatile oils. Bizio calls it steeeusin. STEEL. This important material may be defined as iron chemically combined with suf- ficient carbon to give it extreme toughness and hardness without brittleness. According to one of our greatest authorities on metal- lurgy, steel should contain from •833g to l‘67g of carbon, these numbers referring respectively to the softest and the hardest varieties. Within the last few years great attention has been paid to the investigation of the chemistry of steel. The researches of Despretz and Fremy tend to the conclusion that nitrogen exercises a very important influence over the pheno- mena of ‘ steeling,’ and that carbon plays a less necessary part; while those of Caron and Deville still refer the formation of steel to the chemical combination of iron with carbon. The processes for converting iron into steel, and for ‘tempering’ steel articles, cannot be described in a work like the present. There is no test of the value of steel beyond its elasticity and temper, and the fineness, equality, and smoothness of its grain.^ STE'REOTYPE METAL. See Type Metal. STER'LING. The truth of the old proverb, that “ all is not gold which glitters,” is often painfully experienced by the purchaser of mo- dern jewelry. The following table, in con- nection with the remarks at pages 707 and 725, will, therefore, prove highly, useful to the reader in determining the value of articles in gold, provided he ascertain the ‘fineness’ of the metal, either by examination or written warranty :— Sterling value of Gold of different degrees of ‘ Fineness* Carats. Value per Fine. oz. Troy. £ s. d. 24 carats . 4 4 Hi 23 99 • * • . 4 1 5 22 „ (^British standard) . 3 17 lOi 21 99 4 4 4 . 3 14 4 20 99 rf • . . 3 10 9i 19 99 • . . . 3 7 3 18 „ (lowest Hall-mark) . 3 3 8i 17 99 4 4* . 3 0 2 16 99 . • . . 2 16 7i 15 99 ... . 2 13 1 14 99 ... . 2 9 6i 13 99 ... . 2 6 0 12 99 ... . 2 2 5i 11 99 ... . 1 18 11 10 99 ... . 1 15 4i 9 99 ... . 1 11 10 8 „ ... . 1 8 3i 1 For full information respecting the manufacture of steel, refer to Dr. Percy’s elaborate treatise on “ Metal- lurgy—Iron and Steel.”