! I CHLORISATTNE- r| spheric air—sp. gr. 1*47. It is soluble to a i{ considerable extent in water, that liquid at ; 60° Fahr. absorbing about twice its volume, i It is non-inflammable, but its union with rj some of the elements is attended with the ‘I phenomena of combustion; thus phosphorus, ! copper leaf, powdered antimony and arsenic, and several other substances thrown into chlorine immediately inflame. Under a pres- sure of 4 atmospheres, it is condensed into a yellow, limpid liquid. Moist chlorine gas I cooled to 32° Fahr. condenses into yellow j crystals, containing 35| parts of chlorine I and 90 parts of water. The most remark- j able property of chlorine is, its power of de- j stroying almost all vegetable and animal ; colours, and the putrid odour of decomposing j organic matter; hence its value as a bleaching j agent, and as a disinfectant and fumigation, j When first proposed as a bleaching agent i by Berthollet, it was used much the same way as sulphur is now in bleaching woollen goods; afterwards a solution of the gas in water was employed, but the final improve- ment was Tennant’s patent of combining the gas with lime to form "chloride of lime.” I With the bases chlorine forms an important series of compounds called chlorides. Tests.—Free chlorine is readily distin- guished from other gases by its colour, suffo- cating odour, and bleaching properties. The aqueous solution dissolves gold leaf, and with nitrate of silver gives a white, curdy preci- pitate. The tests for chlorine in combination are mentioned under the heads Chloeate, j Chloride, Htdeochloric Acid, &c. The j methods of estimating chlorine are described I under Chlorometey. I Ant. The fumes of chlorine are eminently ■I irritating and poisonous. The best antidotes are .1 said to be ammoniacal gas cautiously inhaled, ] or the vapours of warm water, of wine, or of I ether. See Bleaching, Disinfectant, &c. Chlorine-water or Liquid Chlorine. See Solution. CHLOKIS'ATINE. A body closely resem- bling ISATINE, formed by acting on that substance with chlorine. Bichloris'atine is i a similar substance, but is more freely soluble j in alcohol. CHL0"RITE (rite). Syn. Chlo”ris, L. A I salt formed of chlorous acid and a base. The j alkaline chlorites may be made by passing a I current of chlorous acid gas into a solution of j the pure alkalies. Chlorites are for the most part soluble, crystallizable salts, possessed of I bleaching properties. ! CHLOROBENZO'IC ACID. From benzoic j acid, by treatment with chlorate of potassa I and hydrochloric acid. \ CHLOROBEN'ZOLE. From benzole and chlo- 1 rine, by exposing them to the rays of the ' sun. Solid; crystalline; fusible; insoluble in water; by distillation it is converted into hydrochloric acid, and a volatile liquid named I Chloroben'zide. -CHLOROFORM. 433 CHLOROBUTYR'IC ACID. From butyric acid and chlorine. The action gives rise to two distinct acids, the monochloeobutyr'ic and dichlorobutyr'ic. CHLOROCARBON'IC ACID. Syn. Phos'- GENE GAS. Prep. 1. From a mixture of equal volumes of perfectly dry carbonic oxide and chlorine, under the influence of sunlight. The volume of the two gases is reduced to one- half, and a pungent, suffocating, acid, gaseous compound is formed, which is decomposed by contact with water. 2. By passing carbonic oxide through penta- chloride of antimony. This is a more con- venient method than the above. CHLOROCARBON'IC ETHER. Prep. Abso~ lute alcohol is introduced into a glass globe containing chlorocarbonic acid. The gas is absorbed in large quantity, and a yellowish liquid produced, from which the chlorocar- bonic ether separates on the addition of water. When freed from water by chloride of calcium, and from adhering acid by rectification from litharge, it forms a thin, colourless, neutral fluid, which burns with a green flame. CHLOROCHRO'MIC ACID. Prep. Bichro- mate of potassa, 3 parts; common salt, 3^ parts; are intimately mixed together, put into a glass retort, and oil of vitriol, 9 parts, added; heat is next applied and maintained as long as dense, red vapours are given oflf. The product in the receiver is a heavy, deop- red liquor, greatly resembling bromine in appearance. Water resolves it into hydro- chloric and chromic acid. CHLOROCIN'NOSE. By acting on oil of cinnamon with chlorine by the aid of heat, and purifying the product by crystallization from alcohol. Brilliant, colourless needles; fusible; volatile; and unafiected by boiling 011 of vitriol. CHL0”R0DYNE. See Patent Medicines. CHLO'ROFORM. Syn. Teechlo”ride of for'myle, For'myl-chlo”rid ; Chloeofor'- MYL (Ph. L ), Chlorofor'mum (Ph. D.), L. A remarkable fluid discovered by Soubeiran in 1832, and carefully examined in 1834 by Dumas, who concluded that it was a ter- chloride of the hypothetical radicle formyle. It is now usually regarded as a derivative of METHYLE. In 1842 its action upon animals was investigated by Dr. M. Glover, and in 1847 it was introduced to the medical pro- fession as an anaesthetic agent by Dr. Simpson, of Edinburgh. It was first obtained by the action of caustic alkali upon chloral, but it is more easily prepared by distilling alcohol or wood spirit with chloride of lime (chlorinated lime, Ph. L.). Prep. 1. (Dumas.) Chloride of lime (in powder), 4 lb.; water, 12 lb.; mix, in a ca- pacious retort or still, add of rectified spirit, 12 fi. oz., and cautiously distil, as long as a dense liquid, which sinks in the water it passes over with, is produced; separate this ‘ 28