243 ATMOSPHERIC—ATOMIC THEORY. I ! fall upon it. Even the comparatively slight j variations of atmospheric pressure which i occur with changes of wind, weather, and I season, exercise a perceptible effect on the I functions of life. Mean pressure of the Atmosphere at the level of the Sea, in different latitudes, at 32° Fahr., expressed in inches of mercury. Lilt. Height (inches). ■ Lat. Height (inches). Lat. Heiglit (inches). 0° 29-930 40° 30-019 54^° 29-926 10 29-975 45 30-000 60 29-803 20 30064 49 29-978 64 29-606 30 30-108 51^ 29951 67 ' 29-673 Tempeeattjee ;—The temperature of the I atmosphere, independently of changes arising 1 from variations of latitude and season, di- I minishes, like its density, with its elevation. In general, every 100 yards of ascent causes I the temperature to fall 1° Fahr. See Air I (Atmospheric), Epidemics, Ventilation, &c. I Atmosphere. In electricity, magnetism, Sfc., the space surrounding the surface of an electric body, or of a magnet, and through which the electrical effluvia or influence, or the magnetic power, extends. ] Atmosphere. In engineering and pneumatics, j the pressure of a column of mercury at 0° i Cent, or 32° Fahr., which is 76 centimetres or I 29‘9218 inches high, at the mean level of the I sea in latitude 45°, taken as a ‘ standard ^ of ; that exerted by other elastic fluids. In prac- I tice this is assumed to be 15 Ih. to the square inch, under a barometrical pressure of 30 j inches. Thus, steam or air condensed so as to I exert a pressure of 30 lb. per sq. inch, is said to be of two atmospheres; at 45 lb., of three i atmospheres, &c. I ATMOSPHERIC (-fer'-). Syn. Atmospher'- ! ICAL; Atmospher'icus, L. ; Atmospherique, Fr.; ZUM ddnstkreise GEHoRia, Ger. Of j or relating to the atmosphere; or caused by [ or depending on it. 1 AT'OM (-urn). Syn. At'omus, L. ; Atome, j Fr.; Atom, Untheilbare theilchen, Ger. A substance or body too small to be divisible; , one of the ultimate particles of which material I bodies are composed. In physics and modern I chemistry, a particle of matter so small as to ^ elude our senses, and between which, and I those surrounding it, the forces of attraction I and repulsion, that constitute and alter the condition of bodies, operate. A molecule or cor- 1 puscle. Familiarly, a particle; anything ex- I tremely small. , The ancients taught that atoms were the j beginning and cause of all things, were indi- ! visible, perceptible only to the understanding, j and possessed of only the passive quality of I existence. According to them, the properties ! of bodies depended on the order, figure, and number of the atoms forming them. Leu- cippus, and after him Democritus and Epi- curus, endeavoured to explain all the pheno- mena of nature by atoms and a vacuum. This hypothesis (at'omism) was first broached by Moschus, before the Trojan war (about b.c. 1200). Asclepiades taught a similar hypo- thesis respecting atoms and pores. (See below.) Compo'nent Atoms. Atoms which, differing in their nature, unite to form a third, or com'- POUND ATOM; as when sulphur unites with oxygen to form sulphuric acid. Element'ary Atoms, Pri'mary Atoms. Those forming the substance of an elementary body. Organic Atoms. Those found only in or- ganic bodies. ATOMTC (-tom'-). Syn. Atom'ical* j AtomIcls, L. ; Atomique, J’r.; Atomisch, &c., Ger. In chemistry, relating to or consisting of atoms; m familiar lang., extremely minute. ATOMIC THE'ORY. In chemistry, the doc- trine of ‘ definite proportions ^ or ‘ equivalents.’ It is found that when substances chemically combine with each other, forming new com- pounds, they invariably do so in certain defi- nite proportions; either atom to atom, or in sums of atoms which are simple multiples of unity. The compound atom joins itself in the same manner to a simple or to a compound atom of another kind, and a combination of a more complex order results. Thus water is composed of 1 part by weight of ‘ hydrogen,’ and 8 parts of ^ oxygen;’ and these gases com- bine only in these proportions to form it. A piece of pure chalk or carbonate of lime is found, by analysis, to consist, in every case, of 22 parts of ‘ carbonic acid,’ and 28 parts of ‘ lime ’ or oxide of calcium ; and is produced synthetically only by the union of the given weights of each of them. Now, carbonic acid and lime are themselves compounds—the first being formed of 6 parts of ‘ carbon,’ and 16 parts of ‘ oxygen ’; and the second, of 20 parts of the metal ‘ calcium,’ and 8 parts of ‘oxygen’—but in their combination follow the same law of ‘ definite proportion’ as simple atoms; and so of all other bodies or substances which depend on chemical affinity and combi- nation for their existence. It is assumed that the relative weights of the atoms of bodies are in the proportion of their equivalent or combining numbers; hence the atom of ‘ hydrogen ’ is = 1, and that of ‘ oxygen ’ = 8; and as the weight of a com- pound atom is assumed as equal to the sum of the weights of its components, that of water is 1 H- 8 = 9; and that of carbonate of lime — (64-16) 4- (20 -f 8) = 50. The''numbers which represent these ‘combining weights’ are called atom'ic or equiv'alent weights or num'bers, or simply equivalents. For the doctrine of ‘ definite proportions,’ or the ‘ atomic theory,’ as it is more generally called, we are indebted to Dr. Dalton, of Manchester ; though the facts upon which it is founded were chiefiy furnished hy the German analysts, and by Mr. Higgins of Dublin. It was Dalton