CARMINIC ACID—CARROT. 401 solution of carmine in ammonia water, or spirits of hartshorn. Very rich and beautiful. . 2. The residual liquor of the process of I malring carmine. Inferior. The first is used in velvet and miniature painting, and for tinting artificial flowers; the second for com- mon purposes, as a stain or wash. Pur'ple Carmine. See Mtjeexide. CARMIN'IC ACID. Prep. (W. De la Rue.) I The powdered insect, after treatment with ! ether to remove the fat, is digested in water. ; The decoction of cochineal is precipitated by adding a solution of acetate of lead, and the I impure carminate of lead thus formed, after i being washed with water, is suspended in ! water, and decomposed by a stream of sul- \ phuretted hydrogen (as in the preparation of ABSiNTHic acid); the whole process is re- , peated with the decanted solution, so obtained; ! the second solution is then evaporated to dryness ' (in vacuo over sulphuric acid), dissolved in I absolute alcohol, digested on some washed crude carminate of lead (to separate a little i phosphoric acid), and, lastly, mixed with ether ; (to precipitate some nitrogenized matter); the ' residuum obtained by careful evaporation (in vacuo) is pure carminic acid. i Prop., Sfc. A purple-brown mass, yielding I a rich-red powder; it is freely soluble in water 1 and alcohol; slightly soluble in ether; and without decomposition in oil of vitriol; it is I feebly acid; its salts are termed carminates, ' only two or three of which have been examined, j According to Mr. De la Rue, this acid con- stitutes the pure colouring matter of cochineal. CAROTTNE. A crystalline, copper-red sub- ! stance, obtained from the root of the Daucus I carota {sativa) or garden carrot. It is taste- I less; odourless; neutral; fusible; inflamma- ! ble; insoluble in ether and water ; slightly soluble in alcohol; and very soluble in the mixed and volatile oils. CAR'PETS. Considerations of cleanliness and economy demand a few words on carpets and hearth-rugs. We are assured by an experienced person, that before proceeding to sweep a carpet, a few handfuls of waste tea-leaves should be sprinkled over it (say some five or six minutes before). A stiff hair broom or hair brush only should be employed, unless ! the carpet be very dirty, when a whisk or I carpet-broom may be used first, followed by another made of hair, to take off the loose dust. The frequent use of a stiff “ carpet- broom ” (those made of cane or birch are here : alluded to), soon wears off the beauty of the : best carpet. An ordinary clothes-brush, or a i clean one, resembling the “dirt brush” used ' for shoes, is best adapted for superior carpets, i When carpets are very dirty, they should be cleaned by shaking and beating. “ If you I must have a carpet, take it up two or three ' times a year, instead of once. A dirty carpet literally infects the room : if you consider the 1 enormous quantity of organic matter from . the feet of people coming in, which must saturate it, this is by no means surprising.” (Miss Nightingale.) In LAYiiva down car- pets, it is very advisable, at first, to cover the floor beneath them with large sheets of thick paper, so as to prevent dust from rising between the boards. Old drugget, sacking, matting, or any similar substance, will effect the same purpose, and will, moreover, ma- terially increase the durability of the carpet, by preserving it from the contact of the hard floor. Brussels Carpets may be cleaned with ox-gall (1 pint to a pailful of water), and a scrubbing-brush and fioor-cloth; afterwards rinsing them in fresh water applied in the same way. They should be previously per- fectly freed from dust by “ beating,” and should be nailed down before commencing the above operations. Great care should be taken to rub them as dry as possible with a clean dry floor-cloth. A small portion only should be done at a time, and a dry windy day selected for the purpose. A carpet treated in this manner will be greatly refreshed in colour, particularly the greens. Kidderminster Carpets will scarcely bear the above treatment without becoming so soft as to get speedily dirty again. This may in some measure be prevented, by brushing them over with a hot weak solution of size in water, to which a little alum has been added. Curd soap, dissolved in hot water, may be used instead of ox-gall, but it is more likely to injure the colours, if produced by false dyes. When there are spots of grease on the car- peting, they may be covered with curd soap, dissolved in boiling water, and rubbed with a brush until the stains are removed, when they must be cleaned with warm water as before. The addition of a little gall to the soap renders it more efficacious. Some persons employ a mixture of soap, fidler’s earth, and turpentine, for the same purpose. Benzole rapidly removes the grease stains, and may be advantageously substituted for preparations of soap. CAR'RAGEEN. Syn. T'rish moss; Chon'- DRUS, L. The Chondrus crispus of botanists, a well-known alga or seaweed. It contains a large proportion of a peculiar jelly, called carrageen'ine or pectTne. This may be purified by agitation with dilute alcohol and filtration. The jelly forms an agreeable article of diet. It is used to a limited extent for thickening colours in calico printing. In medi- cine, carrageen is used in the form of a jelly and decoction as a demulcent, and is often prescribed in pulmonary complaints. See Fixature, Paste, Syrup. CAR'ROT. Syn. Caro'ta, L. The fresh root if‘ radix recens”) is officinal in the Ph. L. E. & D. The is carminative and diuretic; the expressed juice of the root is anthelmintic. Scraped raw carrot is some- times employed as a stimulant application to sore nipples; the boiled root as a poultice to sores and tumours. As an article of food, 26