o8 ALCOHOL. in order to make gold of it; but left off the practice because the expense exceeded the profit. (A.D., 35.) After this we find the em- peror Diocletian commanding, by edict, all the books on the art of making gold and silver to be burnt. (A.D., 280.) Some have asserted that the Egyptians had this mystery ; “ which if true, how could it have been lost ?” Others suppose it to have originated among the Arabs of the Califate, and that they were followed by Raymond LulHus, Paracelsus, and others, who never found anything but ashes in their cruci- bles. Zosimus wrote on this subject about A.D., 410. (Fab. Bid. Grcec.”) During nearly the whole of the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries alchemy was very generally culti- vated throughout Europe, In 1476 a licence for practising alchemy in England was granted to one Richard Carter. (Rymer’s “ Foed.”) The talented and unfortunate Dr. Price, of Guildford, was probably the last of these en- thusiasts, in this country, who professed to have discovered the ‘ philosopher’s stone.’ This person not only published an account of his experiments, but exhibited specimens of gold said to have been so obtained to King George III.; assuring him that they were made by means of ‘ a red and white powder,’ and that he possessed the secret of ‘turning mercury into gold.’ The temerity of his assertions led to his falling a victim to the jealousy and per- secution of his acquaintances and certain ‘ no- tabilities’ who would have better acquitted themselves in some nobler game. Being a Fellow of the Royal Society, he was required, upon pain of expulsion, to repeat his experi- ments before Messrs. Kirwan and Woolfe; which, after some equivocation, he failed to do. He destroyed himself shortly afterwards by poison (A.D., 1782) ; as some say, to avoid the exposure of his deceptions ; but more pro- bably from his mind breaking up, as soon as the temporary excitement of the monomania under which he had evidently laboured, began to subside. However absurd and chimerical might have been the aspirations and pursuits of the alche- mists, it is certain that their labours led to the accumulation of a vast number of import- ant facts and discoveries, which otherwise might have lain undeveloped for ages. To them rational chemistry is mainly indebted for its superstructure, and medicine and phar- macy for some of their most valuable improve- ments. To them we are indebted for the in- troduction of metallic substances into the ma- teria medica, and for effecting that great revo- lution in the science of medicine, which gra- dually swept away the cloud of darkness and superstition which had so long enveloped it, and rescued the minds of men from the fear- ful thraldom in which they had so long been held by the dogmas of Galen and his dis- ciples. The recent discoveries of the methods of producing crystallised carbon {diamonds), of ti’ansmuting ‘inorganic’ matter into organic compounds, and other facts and processes equally wondrous which have surprised the inhabitants of the 19th century, tend to de- precate the opprobrium which has been so lavishly heaped on the alchemists. The re- cently expressed opinions of Faraday and Dumas, two of the most illustrious chemical and physical philosophers of the present day, must forcibly impress on the mind the con- viction of not merely the possibility, but the high probability, that some important disco- veries on the constitution of the metals will ere long be made. AL'COHOL. [Eng., L.; Ph. L., E., and D.] Syn. Al'kohol, Eng., L.; Alcool, Alcohol, Fr.; Alkohol, Hochst Rektipizirtee Wein- GEIST, Ger.; Alcoole, It. A peculiar vola- tile liquid generated by the fermentation of aqueous solutions of sugar, and forming the characteristic principle of wines, beer, spirits, and other like intoxicating liquors. Etyrn. The Orientals, from the most remote antiquity, have been in the habit of pencilling the extreme edges of the eyelids with a pow- der, consisting chiefly of finely levigated anti- mony {kohl or kohol), for the purpose of in- creasing the brilliancy of their eyes. (Herod., lib. i.; Xen., “ Cyrop.” i., c. 3.; “ Podrom. Hellenikes Bibliothekes,” Paris, 1805 ; Gliddon’s “ Olia JEgyptiaca Layard’s “ Nineveh,” ii, 327, &c.) The term, in the course of time, came to be applied to other fine powders, and, subsequently, to any substance reputed to be extremely subtile, or brought to a high state of tenuity. At length several chemical pre- parations presumed to possess these characters, were so called; and ultimately, it was applied to the fluid obtained by distillation from fer- mented liquors. The term is now restricted to pure rectified spirit of wine, free, or nearly free, from water. Hist., S(c. Although the art of distillation was probably known at a comparatively early age of the world, the preparation of pure rec- tified spirit is a discovery of modern times. It was not until the 13th century, that Ray- mond Lully first showed the way to concen- trate spirit by means of carbonate of potassa ; after which date pure concentrated spirit gra- dually rose into note as an article of trade and commerce in Europe. In the 16th cen- tury its distillation was in common practice in these countries. (Burns.) By means of chlo- ride of calcium, Dr. Black obtained alcohol of sp. gr. 0-800 {about A.D. 1760); and Richter afterwards procured it of a sp. gr. so low as 0-796 at 60° Fahr. (Crell’s ^‘Annals,” 1796.) Lavoisier first demonstrated the composition of alcohol {about 1780). Its analysis w-as sub- sequently perfected by M. Saussure, jun., and confirmed by MM. Dumas and Boullay, and Gay-Lussac; and by many others since. Nat. hist. Alcohol is peculiar to tlie organic kingdom, being exclusively produced, in the natural way, by the process of fermentation.