263 BALSAM—BANDAGE. fragrant, though less powerful than that of either styrax or balsam of Peru; and it has a pleasant sweetish taste. It softens under the teeth, melts readily, and burns with an agree- able odour. As a medicine it is a stimulating expectorant, and, as such, is employed in chronic bronchial affections unaccompanied with inflammatory action. It has long been a popular pectoral. Syrup of Tolu is an agree- able and common adjunct to pectoral mixtures, and, with Tolu lozenges, is often serviceable in tickling coughs. It is also used by confec- tioners, perfumers, &c., and in fumigating pastils.—Dose. 5 to 20, or even 30 gr., dis- solved in spirit, or made into an emulsion. Pur. This is shewn by its perfect solubility in rectified sjjirit, forming a transparent tinc- ture, and by its odour. When adulterated it has a weaker smell, is only partially soluble in alcohol, and the tincture formed with that fluid is opaque. The presence of colophony (or lac), according to Ulex, may be detected by the balsam, instead of dissolving in sulphuric acid, swelling up, blackening, and disengaging sulphurous fumes.^ Castor-oil may be detected i in the way noticed under Balsam of Perij. A Factitious Balsam of Tolu was formerly met with in trade, made of equal parts of orange-lac and white sugar, reduced to a proper consistence with rectified spirit, and ‘ brought up ’ with some tincture of benzoin, and a few drops of the oils of cassia and nutmeg dissolved in a little essence of vanilla. Balsam of Tur'pentine (-tine). Syn. Bal'- SAMUM TEREBIN'THIN^, L. A name formerly given to Strasburgh, Venice, and other like turpentines. Balsam of Turpentine (Emollient). Syn. B. terebinthina'tum, L. Prep. Olive-oil, 6 oz.; oil of turpentine, 2 oz.; yellow wax, 1 oz.; balsam of Peru, oil of nutmeg, and camphor, of each, 2dr. A stimulant emollient; in con- tusions, ulcerations, engorgements, nephritic pains, &c. Balsam of Umi"ri. [Nat.] By incision, from the humir'ia fioribun'dum (Mart.), or the umiri- plant of Para. It is fragrant, limpid, of a palish-yellow colour, and in its medicinal pro- perties is said to combine those of the balsams of copaiba and Peru. BALSAMIC (bal-). Syn. BalsamTctjs, Bal- Sa'meijs, BalsamTnus, L. ; Balsamique, Fr.; Balsamisch, Ger. Of the nature of balsam, or containing or resembling it; bland, soothing, healing; balmy. BAMBOO' (-b55'). [Nat.] Syn. Bambu'sa, L.; Bambon, Fr.; Bambus, Bambuseohr, Indianischer ROHR, Ger. The name of several species of the genus ‘ bambusa,’ but appr. of b. arundhia'cea or ‘ common bamboo.’ See Bambusa {below). Bamboo'-habit (-hab-). A species of ‘life- pi’eserver,’ or ‘ float,’ used in Cliina and the Indian Arcitipelago, cons.sting of four pieces of bamboo tied together so as to form a square. 1 “ Archxv der Pharm.," 1865. BAMBU'SA. [Endl.] The bamboo. In botany, a genus of magnificent arborescent grasses, of the nat. ord. Gramineae (DC.), having hollow jointed stems, of a hard woody texture, externally coated with siliceous matter, and sometimes secreting a similar siliceous substance (tabasheer') in their in- ternal cavities. They are all of rapid growth, and vai’y in height from 6 to 150 feet. There is, perhaps, scarcely any other plant, besides the palm, which serves for so many purposes useful to man, as the various species of bamboo. Its grain is used for bread ; the young shoots are eaten like asparagus, and are also pickled; the smaller stalks are made into walking canes, umbrella and parasol sticks, flutes, &c.; whilst its fibres are manu- factured into cloth, and even paper. It is employed extensively in the construction of houses, bridges, masts for boats, domestic fur- niture, boxes, mats, baskets, utensils of various kinds, fences, water pipes and vessels, quick- silver bottles, &c., and for numerous other pur- poses connected with every-day life. The genus is confined to the East and West Indies and tropical America. See Cane, Pickles, Tabasheer, &c. BANA'NA (-na'- or -nah'-). [Nat.] The mu'sa sapien’tum (Linn.), a species of plantain; also its fruit. See Plantain. BAND'AGE (-aje). Syn. Deliha'tio, Fas"- ciA, Liga'men, Ligatu"ra, Vinctu"ra, L. ; Bandage, Bande, Fr.; Binde, Verb and, Ger. In surgery, the fillet, roller, or cloths, used to support parts, to exert pressure on them, or to retain dressings in their proper places. Bandages are usually formed of long narrow slips of calico or linen, and, occasionally, of fiannel, which are generally made into a ‘roll’ (roller) of moderate size, so as to be the more conveniently handled and applied. 'Fhey are either simple, as the cir'cular, the spir'al, or the unit'ing bandage ; or compound, as the T-bandage, suspen'sory b., &c. The application of bandages, as in the dres- sing of wounds, ulcers, &c., though of such frequent occurrence, is often very carelessly and badly done. The form and nature of the part, and the object in view, should always receive consideration; as should also the con- dition of the patient after their application— whether of repose, exercise, or labour. Ordi- nary ingenuity will supply the rest. The safest, simplest, and most effective means of fastening them, is, in most cases, furnished by a common needle and thread or cotton. Mus'tard Bandage. A woollen roller soaked in a mixture of the best flower of mustard and warm water, of the consistence of fresh cream, the excess of moisture being expelled by gentle pressure—Used to envelope the body, or a limb, by repeatedly folding it round the part; in the cold stages of cholera, and in other cases requiring an energetic stimulant. Other medicaments, particularly those of a stimula- ting and anodyne character, are sometimes