BREAKFAST—BREAST. 359 trifling for the purpose, and the greater part [ of it escapes in the process of making the dough, even though all the materials be well I cooled, and the operation conducted in a cold place. The only way of obviating the difficulty t is to conduct the ‘kneading’ in a trough under considerable atmospheric pressure, and at a very low temperature, by means of ma- t chinery, as is done by Dr. Dauglish, whose method is now protected by ‘ letters patent.’ r This method is not, however, adapted either I to domestic use or the small scale. I Obs. Unfermented bread has been strongly f recommended as being more wholesome, and } generally better adapted to bilious and dys- ) peptic patients, than fermented bread. It ! must, however, be confessed, that the ‘ unfer- I! inented bread ’ commonly met with, has a slight ‘raw-grain’ taste, which is very dis- ; agreeable to some persons. But this taste is not necessarily present, being chiefly depend- ent on bad manipulation, the use of inferior I flour, and insufficient baking. The process of fermentation doubtless modifies the condition of the starch and gluten of the dough, and renders them easier of digestion. This species i of bread is sadly adulterated with a variety of indescribable messes. See Biscuits, Bread {ante), Flour, Gingerbread, &c. BREAKTAST (brek'-). Spi. Jentac'ulum, L.; Dejeuner, Dejeune, Fr.; Fruhstuck, Ger. The first meal of the day; or the food served at it. The morning meal—the ^early bit* of the ( Germans—is, perhaps, the most important I one of the day. According to Erasmus Wilson, j it is usually “ taken at eight or nine.** The proper time for the purpose must, however, depend upon that at which the party rises. About an hour, to an hour and a half, after leaving the bed, will generally be found I the most appropriate time for breakfast, and I appears to be tbe one pointed out by nature, and the most conducive to health. By that time the powers of the system have fully re- covered from the inactivity of sleep, and the functions of the stomach and other viscera have again come into full play. The appetite is excited and seeks appeasing, and both instinct and reason direct us to the social board. If abstinence be now prolonged, the physical and mental energies, unsupported by the supply of food which indirectly gives them birth, gradually lessen, and incipient I exhaustion ensues. The fiuids of the stomach and the smaller intestines begin to act upon tbe coats of those viscera, instead of on the food, and an unpleasant feeling of hunger, or a loss ] of appetite, comes on, with all its depressing I consequences. When breakfast cannot be I taken within a reasonable period after rising, I the ‘ gap ’ should be filled up by chewing a I crust, a biscuit, or the like. A raw egg or two, ‘ sucked ’ from the shell, or broken into a tea-cup and drank, will be found most valuable for this purpose. Raw milk, cheese, salted food, and other indigestible matter, should be particularly avoided at this early period of the day. The articles of food to be chosen for the breakfast-table must depend entirely on the state of the health, the occupations, &c., of those assembled round it. Coffee appears to be, by common consent, the favorite beverage. For the delicate, the bilious, and the young, it should neither be taken too strong, nor very weak, and should be softened down with milk or cream, and well sweetened with sugar. Tea is more apt to affect the nerves and stomach than pure ‘ wTzchicoried ’ coffee.^ Green tea, taken thus early in the day, often acts as an absolute poison, though a slow one. We have seen severe fits of vomiting and ex- haustion follow its use. The so/ic? for breakfast should be easy of digestion, and nutritious. Females, chil- dren, and persons leading a sedentary fife, should confine themselves to a sufficient quantity of good meal-bread with only a moderate quantity of butter, to which an egg, or a small rasher of mild bacon, may be advan- tageously added. Parties engaged in active occupations may extend their exploits some- what farther, and add to this bill of fare a little ham or cold meat. When an undue time will elapse before the luncheon or dinner, and particularly during the colder season of the year, the broiled leg of a fowl, an underdressed mutton chop, or a little tender beefsteak, will be found, by the parties last referred to, most useful; nay, in many cases, invaluable. But excess must be particularly avoided. The object is to take enough food to maintain the system in full energy and vigour, and par- ticularly to avoid offending the stomach by overloading it; a misfortune easily effected at the breakfast table. Old commercial travellers —men wise in the mysteries of life and its enjoyments—are scrupulously careful to make a good, but not a heavy breakfast, before com- mencing the arduous duties of the day. See Dejeuner, Meals, &c. Breakfast Pow'der. Syn. Rye'-coeeee, Dillen'ius’s c.. Hunt’s Econom'ical BREAKFAST POWDER, &c. Rye, roasted along with a little fat, after the manner of coffee. It was once sold at 2s. 6d. the lb., and was formerly extensively used as a substitute for foreign coffee, of which it is one of the cheap- est and best. Since the reduction of duty on coffee it has nearly fallen into disuse, unless it be by the grocers to adulterate that article. BREAST (Sore). See Nipples. 1 This does not apply to the patent “ Osborne Mixtures” of the Messrs. Franks, Son, & Co., of'Little Tower Street; wliich owing to the care with which they are selected, their thorough ripeness, and the processes to which they are subjected, are totally free from the peculiar narcotic and stomach-relaxing qualities of the ‘ ordinary teas’ of the shops, which are all new. We have now used these teas for above three mouths for breakfast, with manifest advantage; although previously oiu’ stomach would only tolerate coffee.