HYDROCYANIC ACID. 739 j 5 parts j water, 30 parts; boil the mixture in [ a glass vessel until the blue colour has disap- I jicared or turned green, then decant or filter, I and wash the solid residuum with hot water, I 10 parts; to the mixed liquors, add, of iron \ filings, 3 parts; strongest oil of vitriol, 1 part; 1 agitate well together, and decant the clear liquid from the quicksilver which separates I and collects at the bottom of the vessel; lastly, I pour the liquid into a retort, and distil over j l-4th part of it for use. The strength of the | • product is uncertain, and varies from 3 to 5§. I An acid of 4g is now generally sold under the I name of ‘Hydrocyanic Acid, Scheele’s strength.^ j • Tc. (Dr. R. D. Thomson.) Dilute sulphuric j acid (Ph. L.), 2 fl. dr.; distilled water, 6 fl. dr.; ; mix, and add of pure cyanide of lead, 43| gr.; } agitate well, and decant the clear. Contains | I 2g of pure acid. I 1. (Winckler.) Ferrocyanide of potassium ! I (pure cryst., in powder), 120 gr.; solution of \ \ pure phosphoric acid (sp. gr. 1"25), 240 gr.; alcohol of 80g, 480 gr.; mix in a retort con- nected with a receiver containing of rectified spirit, 120 gr.; infuse for 24 hours, with j occasional agitation, and then distil over the 1 liquid portion, adding to the distillate, alcohol, q. s. to make it up to exactly 1^ oz. Contains I 2g of pure acid. I m. (Foreign Ph.) Ph. Austr., Baden, j Boruss., Hamb., and U. S., as the Ph. L. 1 (nearly); P. Cod., resembles Magendie’s, or j from lOi to 12g. j Prop,, ^c. The pure anhydrous acid is a I thin, colourless, and exceedingly volatile I liquid, possessing a very powerful odour greatly I resembling that of peach kernels or oil of I bitter almonds; it boils at 79®, and solidifies ! at 0® Fahr.; sp. gr. *7058 at 45°. It possesses L a feeble acid reaction, and mixes with water I and alcohol in all proportions without suffer- I ing decomposition. Mixed with strong hydro- I chloric acid, the whole solidifies to a crystalline i paste of sal ammoniac and hydrated formic i acid. The other strong mineral acids operate a like change. In its anhydrous form this acid can seldom be preserved many days; light facilitates this change. It gradually I darkens, and eventually deposits a black sub- i stance, and the residual liquor is found to I have lost all the characteristic properties of j prussic acid. j Pure anhydrous prussic acid is one of the j most deadly poisons known. Whether swal-. lowed or applied to the surface of the body, I it usually produces death so rapidly as to pre- i elude the possibility of antidotes being adminis- I tered. Even its vapour has a like effect, i Medicinal hydrocyanic acid is a colourless, I transparent liquid, tasting and smelling of I peach kernels or bitter almonds. It is pow- I erfully poisonous, although less intensely so I and less rapid in its action than the stronger ! acid. With certain metals, oxides and hy- ! drates, hydrocyanic acid reacts, forming CY- I anides, sometimes called ‘ hydeoctanides.* Pur. It is ^^free from colour; by heat it (entirely) escapes in vapour, exhaling a pe- culiar odour. It turns litmus of a slight fugitive red colour. It does not redden on the addition of the ^ iodocyanide of potassium and mercury.^ Sulphuretted hydrogen does not discolour it. Chloride of barium being added to it, nothing is thrown down.” (Ph. L.) “The precipitate” (produced by nitrate of silver) “entirely clisappe^h’s in boiling nitric acid.” (Ph. E.) Tests.—1. It is distinguished by a strong odour of bitter almonds.—2. Neutralized by potassa, and tested with a solution of sulphate or tincture of sesquichloride of iron, it gives a precipitate, which becomes of a deep-blue colour on the addition of dilute sulphuric acid. This test may be most successfully applied as follows:—Spread a single drop of solution of potassa over the bottom of a white saucer or porcelain capsule, and invert it over another vessel of the same size containing the matter under examination. After 2 to 5 minutes remove the upper capsule, and add to the po- tassa on it a single drop of a solution of sul- phate or tincture of iron, and expose it to the air for a few seconds. Next add one or two drops of dilute sulphuric acid, when a blue colour win be developed if hydrocyanic acid is present.—3. Nitrate of silver gives a white clotty precipitate, soluble in boiling nitric acid, and which, when dried and heated in a small glass tube, evolves fumes kno-wn to be cy- anogen, by burning with a violet or bluish- coloured flame. A watch-glass moistened with this test, and inverted over hydrocyanic acid, as in No. 2, speedily becomes opaque and white from the formation of cyanide of silver. —4. A drop or two of yellow hydrosulphuret of ammonia is spread on the concave surface of a watch-glass or porcelain capsule, which is then inverted over the vessel containing the suspected matter, as in No. 2; after a few minutes the capsule is removed, and any unde- composed hydrosulphuret evaporated by the application of a very gentle heat; a glass rod dipped in a solution of a persalt (sesquisalt) of iron is now drawn over the glass, when blood-red streaks of ^sulphocyanide of iron ’ are formed, if the smallest quantity of hydrocyanic acid has been present; or, if the quantity is considerable, a blood-red solution is obtained by placing a drop or two of the iron solution on the glass. If the addition of the iron pro- duces a black colour, the evaporation has been carried hardly far enough. This test origi- nated with Liebig, and is the most delicate yet discovered.—5. Supersaturated with potassa, it gives a greenish-blue precipitate with sul- phate of copper, which is turned white by the cautious addition of hydrochloric acid.—6. Tinc- ture of guaiacum gives a white precipitate, and when a few drops of a solution of sulphate of copper are added, a blue colour is produced, which is heightened by adding alcohol. (Pagenstecher.)—7. An excess of potassa being I