915 MINDERERUS’S SPIRIT—MIXTURE. ! j each, 2 oz.; brandy^ a glassful or two j the I whole chopped very fine. It may be varied ■ by adding other spice or flavouring, and by ' the addition of eggs, or the substitution of chopped fowl or veal for beef, according to the taste of the cuisinier. MINDERE"RUS’S SPIRIT. See Ammonia (Acetate of), and Solution. MIN'ERAL CHAME'LEON. Prep. From a I mixture of hinoxide of manganese and potash or I nitre, equal parts, heated to redness. It must 1 be preserved in a well-corked bottle until re- I quired for use. ; Prop., Sfc. When dissolved in water, its I solution, at first green, passes spontaneously [ through all the coloured rays to the red, when, |if potassa be added, the colour retrogrades I until it reaches the original green. The i addition of oil of vitriol, or of chlorine, renders the solution colourless. The addition of a weak acid, or even boiling or agitating the liquid, turns it from green to red. See Man- ganic Acid. MIN'ERALIZERS. Substances which, by association with metallic bodies, deprive them of their usual properties, and impart to them I the character of ores. Their removal belongs to metallurgy. The term ‘ mineealized ’ has been applied to caoutchouc, gutta percha, bitumen, &c., which has been combined with sulphur, silica, or metallic matter, i MINTM. Syn. Minimum, L. A measured j drop, of which 60 are equal to a fluid drachm. (The size of drops vary so greatly with different (liquids, and are also so much influenced by the ! size and shape of the vessels from which they are poured, that they afford no reliable mea- I sure of quantity for medicinal purposes. The \poured drop has, in some cases, only ^rd the I volume of the measured drop, or minim; whilst, I in others, it is nearly 3 times as large. Accord- ing to Mr. Durande, “liquids which contain a small proportion of water, afford a small drop; while, on the contrary, liquids con- taining a large quantity of water, furnish a !large drop.^^ “Among liquids containing a 'large proportion of water, those which are not (charged with remedial substances, give a ! larger and heavier drop than the same liquids I when containing extraneous bodies in solution.^' jIn all cases in which the word * drop* is I mentioned in this work a minim is intended, land the quantity should be determined by j means of a graduated minim measure. ! MINIUM. See Red Pigments. ' MINT. 5yn. Speaemint, Geeen m.; Men- 'THA viEiDis (Ph. L.), L. “The recent and i the dried flowering herb ** of Mentha viridis. jit is aromatic and carminative, but its flavour 1 is less agreeable than that of peppermint. It (is employed in flatulence, colic, nausea, diar- I rhcea, &c. j also to make sauce, i MIR'RORS. See Amalgam (Silvering), • SiLVEEiNG, Speculum Metal, &c. I MISCAR'RIAGE. See Aboetion. 1 MITES. See Acaei. MITH'RIDATE. Syn. Damoceates’s Con- EECTION; MiTHEIDATIUM, CoNFECTIO DAMO- CEATIS, L. “ This composition originally con- sisted of but few ingredients j viz., 20 leaves of rue, 2 walnuts, 2 flgs, and a little salt. Of this we are informed that Mithridates took a dose every morning, to guard himself against the effects of poison. It was afterwards altered, and the number of the ingredients increased to sixty-one. In this more complex form it contained opium, and was, in effect, an aromatic opiate, of which the confection of opium of the present day may be considered as a simplification. The ‘mithridate' is still prepared in some shops, and is occasionally, thongh very rarely, prescribed.’^ (Med. Lex.) “ The formulae for confection or electuaey OF CATECHU may be considered as the repre- sentatives, in our modern Pharmacopoeias, of the once celebrated recipes for confectio Damoceatis and theeiaca Andeomachi.” (Redwood.) Mithridate was formerly con- ceived to be good for nearly every disease, and an antidote for every known poison. MIXTURE. Syn. Mistuea, L. A com- pound liquid medicine, taken in divided doses. Mixtures are usually extemporaneous pre- parations, and in prescribing them care should be taken not to bring together substances that decompose each other, nor to order heavy powders, that speedily separate from the body of the liquid by subsidence. Emulsions, JULEPS, and mucilages, are now included in the ‘ MiSTUEiE * of the London Pharma- copoeia. Mixtures are usually dispensed in flat octa- gonal 6 or 8-oz. bottles, with long necks; or in regular ‘ octagons,^ with short necks, having the doses marked on the glass, to which the strength of the medicine is made to con*e- spond. Our remarks respecting ^deaughts’^ equally apply here. By putting the active ingredients of six draughts into a 6-oz. mixture bottle, and filling it up with distilled water, a mixture will be made of corresponding properties, of which the dose will be 2 table-spoonfiils. When the formula for the draughts includes a decoction or infusion as the vehicle, instead of water, four of them only must be taken, which will then fill the 6-oz. bottle, and the proper dose will be 3 table-spoonfuls, or a small wine- glassful. The following formula} embrace the whole of the ‘MISTUE.E’ of the British Pharma- copoeias, as well as a few others in general use. These will serve as examples for the like pre- parations of medicinals which are not included in the list. (See also Deaught, Emulsion, Julep, Watee, &c.) AbsorlDent Mixture. See Antacid Mix- TUEE. Aca'cia Mixture. See Gum Mixtuee. Ac'etate of Ammo"nia Mixture. Syn. Min- DEEEKUS’S MIXTUEE; MiSTUEA AMMONI.3B 1 See pagt 534.