1291 TROUT—TURPENTINE. itained from the residuum after being heated for 20 minutes in a water bath, and liavoured with salt and spices, the whole being, lastly, ;simmered for a few minutes. Excellent for convalescents. , TROUT. The Salmo fario of Linnaeus, a iihighly esteemed fish, found in most of the rivers and lakes of this country. Other mem- ’^[bers of the genus salmo are also so called ; as, 5. ^eriox, the bull or gray trout; S.ferox, the great 1 gray or lake trout; S. trutta, the salmon trout, ®&c. All of these varieties are in the finest ||condition from the end of May to late in (September. ! TRUSS. See Site&eey (Popular). I TU'MOUR. A permanent swelling, enlarge- ment, or induration, possessing a distinct lo- jcality, and more or less restricted in extent. (There are two principal classes—saecoma- TOES TTJMOUES, Or those which are firm and of S a fleshy consistence ; and encysted tumotjes, ilor those consisting of a sac containing matter I more or less pulpy or fluid. Of each of these classes there are numerous varieties. The treatment of ordinary tumours is either by re- a solution or dispersion, by the application of * repellants or resolvents, or even pressure, sup- iported by a low diet; or, their suppuration or . ripening is promoted by warmth, stimulating applications, and a liberal diet. The former applies to both varieties; the latter, chiefly to jthose that suppurate readily and afterwards jheal kindly. The choice must, however, de- ipend almost entirely on the precise character I of the tumour, and existing circumstances, as the locality, habit of body, &c. See Abscess, Boil, &c. TUNG'STEN. Syn. Tungstenem:, Wol- FEAMIEM, L. A heavy, gray, brittle metal, discovered by Delhuyart. It occurs in wolf- J EAM, a mineral tolerably abundant in Corn- wall, united with oxygen and iron, from which it may be obtained by the action of charcoal, -at a high temperature. It also occurs in com- I bination with lime (‘ native tungstate of lime’). It is most conveniently obtained by strongly heating tungstic acid in a stream of hydrogen jas. Prop., 8cc. Sp. gr., 17'35 ; heated in the air, t takes fire, producing tengstic acid. In- TEEM-EDIATE OXIDE Or BLEE OXIDE OF TENG- 5TEN is prepared by heating tungstate of am- nonia; and the binoxide, or beown oxide, 3y exposing tungstic acid to a stream of hy- Irogen at a temperature not exceeding dull 'edness. Two chloeides and two sel- PHEEETS have also been found. (See be- ow.) / TUNG'STIC ACID. Syn. Teeoxide of •ijrENGSTEN. A yellow powder, obtained by ^digesting native tungstate of lime, finely pow- '•jlered, in nitric acid. It is insoluble in water, ^|)ut dissolves freely in a concentrated solution I |>f pure potassa, forming tengstate of po- I pASSA. The most important salt is the teng- ! ITATE OF SODA, now extensively used for ren- dering woven fabrics uninflammable. (Seepage 754.) TUR'BOT. The Rhombus maximus (Cu- vier), said to be the best and, excepting the halibut, the largest of our flat fishes. Dutch turbots are the most esteemed. TUR'KEY. See Poeltey. TUR'MERIC. Syn. Ceecema (Ph. L. & D.), L. The rhizome of Curcuma longa. The best is imported from Ceylon. It is stimulant and carminative, but is chiefly used in dyeing yellow, and as an ingredient in curry-powder; also as a test for alkalies. It gives a fugitive golden yellow with weld, and an orange tinge to scarlet. It dyes wool and silk, mordanted with common salt, or sal ammoniac, 2i fugitive yellow. Dose. 10 to 30 gr. See Ceecemine. TURNBULL’S BLUE. Syn. Feeeicyanide OF lEON ; FeEEI FEEEIDCYANIDEM, L. Prep. Precipitate a solution of protosulphate of iron with another of red prussiate of potash (ferri- cyanide of potassium). Obs. This is a variety of Prussian blue, re- markable for its beautiful colour, and may be distinguished from the ordinary Prussian blue of commerce by its action on the yellow prus- siate of potash. When boiled in a solution of the latter, it is decomposed, a portion is dis- solved, and a gray residue remains. TURNER’S YELLOW. See Yellow Pig- ments. TURN'SOLE. See Litmes. TUR'PENTINE. Syn. Teepentin; Teee- BiNTHiNA (Ph. L. E. D.), L. An oleo-resin flowing from the trunk, the bark being re- moved, of Pinus palustris (pitch or swamp pine) and Pinus Tceda (loblolly or old field pine).” (Ph. L.) “ From Pinus sylvestris (the Scotch fir).” (Ph. D.) “ From various species of Pinus and of Abies.” (Ph. E.) It is viscid, of the consistence of honey, and transparent; by distillation it is resolved into oil of teepen- TiNE, which passes over into the receiver ; and into EESIN, which remains in the still. Bordeaux Turpentine. Syn. Feench tee- PENTINE. From the Pinus maritima, or cluster pine. Solidifies with magnesia. (Lindley.) Chian Turpentine. Syn. Chio teepentine, Cypees t., Scio t.; Teeebinthina Chia (Ph. L. & E.), L. “ An oleo-resin flowing from the incised trunk of Pistachia terebinthus” (Linn.). (Ph. L.) It is pale, aromatic, fragrant, and has a warm taste, devoid of acrimony or bit- terness. It is much adulterated. A facti- tious article (teeebinthina Chia factitia), made as follows, is also very generally sold for it:—Black resin, 7 lb.; melt, remove the heat, and stir in of balsam of Canada, 7 lb. ; oils of fennel and juniper, of each, 1 fl. dr. Venice Turpentine. Syn. Teeebinthina VENETA (Ph. E.), L. Liquid resinous exuda- tion from the Abies Larix, or larch tree. It is sweeter and less resinous-tasted than common turpentine, but is now scarcely ever met with in trade. That of the shops is wholly a facti- tious article, made as follows:—Black resin, ^