408 CYDER—DAMP. neutralizing a boiling solution of the acid with the base. Cyanurate of silter is prepared by adding a solution of nitrate of silver to another of cyanurate of jfotassa. Cy'DER. See Cider. CY'DORnirE. The peculiar gum of quince seed. It resembles bassorine in most of its properties. CY'MIDIRE. An oily base, homologous with ANILINE, obtained by the action of iron filings and acetic acid on nitro-cymol. CY'MOL, A peculiar hydrocarbon found in oil of cumin, in admixture with CUMINOL. The two bodies are separable in a great mea- sure by distillation, cymol being the most volatile portion of the oil. CY'NAPINE. An alkaloid obtained from JEthusa cynapiwn, or fool’s parsley. It pos- sesses no practical interest. CYSTIC OXIDE. Syn. Cyst'ine. Ob- tained from cystic oxide calculi (in powder) by digestion in liquor of ammonia. By sjion- taneous evaporation the ammoniacal solution deposits small, colourless crystals of cystic oxide. It forms a saline compound with hydrochloric acid, and is decomposed by the strong alkalies. CY'TISINE. A purgative hitter principle, extracted from the Cytisus Laburnum (Linn.), or common laburnum, and some other plants. DAGUERRE'OTYPE (da-ger'-ro-tlpe). See Photography. DA"HLIA DYE (dMe'-y'a). The shade of colour which is commonly termed ‘dahlia^ is a reddish lilac. It is produced by combining a blue or purple with red when a compound colour is used. Upon wool and silk it can be obtained directly by means of archil or cudbear, either alone or ‘ blued’ by a small quantity of sulphate of indigo. Upon COTTON indifferent shades of dahlia are obtained by macerating in sumac liquor, working in tin solution, and dyeing in logwood mixed with some red ivood. DA"HLIRE. A species of fecula obtained from the tubers of the dahlia. It is iden- tical with INTJLINE. It is not employed in the arts. DAIR'Y. The place where milk is kept, and cheese and butter made. The best situation for a dairy is on the north side of the dwelling- house, in order that it may be sheltered from the sun during the heat of the day. Ample means should be provided to ensure venti- lation, and at the same time to exclude flies and other insects. The temperature should be preserved, as much as possible, in an equable state, ranging from 45° to 55° Fahr. To lessen the influence of external variations of temperature, the walls should be double, or of considerable thickness, and the windows pro- vided with shutters or doors. In summer the heat may be lessened by sprinkling water on the floor, which will produce considerable cold by its evaporation. Dairies built of mud or ^ cob’ are preferred in the West of England; and this preference arises from the uniform temperature they inaintain, on account of the great thickness of the walls, and their being very bad conductors of heat. In large dairy- farms, where butter and cheese are made, the dairy is generally a separate building, and divided into 3 or 4 apartments; one of which is called the ‘ milk-room a second, the ‘churn- ing-room a third, the ‘ cheese-room,’ contain- ing the cheese-press, &c.; and a fourth, the ‘ drying-room’ where the cheeses are placed to dry and harden. To these may be added a scullery, furnished with boiler, water, &c., for scalding and cleaning the dairy utensils. Cleanliness is very essential in all the ope- rations of the dairy, and in none more so than in the milking of the cows. The hands and arms of the milkmaid should be kept scrupu- lously clean, and should he well washed wdth soap and water after touching the udder of a sick cow, as without this precaution the sores may be conveyed to the healthy ones. The milk-cans should be scalded out daily, and, as well as all the other dairy utensils, should be kept clean and dry. Before placing the milk on the shelves of the dairy, it should be strained through a hair sieve or a searce covered with clean cheese-cloth, as hy this precaution any stray hairs that may have fallen into the milk- pail will he taken out. The average produce of a milch cow, sup- plied with good pasturage, is about 3 gallons daily Irom Lady-day to Michaelmas, and from that time to February about 1 gallon daily. Cows of good breed will be profitable milkers, to 14 or 15 years of age, if well-fed. See Butter, Cheese, Cream, &c. DAMAS'CUS BLADES. See Steel. DAMP, under any form, should be avoided. A humid atmosphere or situation is one of the commonest causes of agues, asthmas, rheuma- tism, and numerous other diseases. Damp Linen is very injurious, and should be especially avoided. In travelling, when it is expected that the bed has not been properly aired, a good plan is to sleep between the blankets. To ascertain this point, the hed may be warmed, and a cold, dry, glass tumbler, immediately afterwards introduced between the sheets, in an inverted position. After it has remained a few seconds, it should be examined, when, if it is found dry, and un- dimmed by steam, it may be fairly presumed that the bed is ‘ well-airedbut if the reverse should be the case, it should be avoided. When it is impossihle to prevent the use of damp linen, as articles of dress, the best way to obviate any ill effects is to keep constantly in motion, and avoid remaining near the fire, or in a warm apiirtmerit, or in a draught of cold air, until sufficient time has elapsed to allow of the escape of the moisture. The effect of evaporation is the reduction of the temperature of the body; hence the depressing action of damp linen.