464 COINS—COKE. and they use the coffee both newly ground and roasted. A shred of saffron, or a little vanilla, is frequently added, whilst the perco- lating coffee-pot is generally employed. When the Parisian uses a common coffee-pot, he generally divides the water into 2 parts. The first portion he pours on boding hot, and allows it to infuse for 4 or 5 minuteSj he then pours this off as clear as possible, and boils the grounds for 2 or 3 minutes with the remaining half of the water. After the last has deposited the sediment it is decanted, and mixed with the infusion. The object of this process is to obtain the whole of the strength, as well as the flavour. The infusion is conceived to contain the latter, and the decoction the former; a plausible, hut erroneous idea, since both of them were carried off by the first water. Essence of Coffee. A highly concentrated infusion of coffee, prepared by percolation with boiling water, gently and quickly evaporated to about |rd or ith of its hulk, and mixed with a thick aqueous extract of chicory and syrup of burnt sugar, so as to give the whole the consistence of treacle. The proportions of the dry ingredients should he—coffee, 4 parts; chicory, 2 parts; burnt sugar, 1 part. It should he kept in well-corked bottles in a cool place. This resembles the advertised essence of coffee of Dunn and other makers. It is convenient for making extemporaneous coffee; but the beverage so made, though superior to much of that sold at coffee-houses and hotels, is inferior in flavour, aroma, and piquancy, to that we are accustomed to drink at home. We have ourselves prepared an essence of coffee, very concentrated, and which will keep in any climate, that possesses all these good qualities. Searle’s Patent Coffee. This is prepared by evaporating shimmed milk mixed with ^gth part of sugar, at a low temperature, and, when nearly solid, adding a very concentrated essence of coffee, and continuing the evapora- tion at a low temperature (in vacuo, if pos- sible), until the mixture acquires the consis- tence of a syrup (corrEE syeup), paste (coe- EEE paste), or candy (coeeee candy). The Inst may he powdered (coffee powdee, dey ESSENCE OF COFFEE). Substitutes for Coffee. These are numerous, hut are now seldom employed, owing to the cheapness of the genuine article. Among the principal are the following:— 1. Acoen COFFEE. From acorns deprived of their shells, husked, dried, and roasted. A good substitute. 2. Almond coffee. Eye or wheat roasted along with a few almonds. A very small quan- tity of cassia-buds improves it. A good sub- stitute. 3. Bean coffee. Horse-beans roasted along with a little honey or sugar. WTien removed from the fire, a small quantity of cassia-buds are frequently added, and the whole is stirred until cold. Said to be a good sub- stitute. 4. Beech-mast coffee. From beech-mast ' or nuts. Very wholesome. 5 Beet-eoot coffee. From the yellow beet-root, sliced, dried, in a kiln or oven, and ground w'ith a little foreign coffee. A good substitute; equal to chicory coffee. 6. CoESiCAN COFFEE. From the seeds of the knee-holly. 7. Cheeant COFFEE. From the seeds washed out of the cake left in making currant wine. 8. Egyptian coffee. From chick-peas. 9. GeEMAN COFFEE, SlJCCOEY C., ChICOET c. From chicory or succory. Used both for foreign coffee and to adulterate it. 10. Goosebeeey COFFEE. From goose- berry seeds, as No. 7. 11. Holly coffee. From the berries. 12. Lupin coffee, Hambeo’ c., Hambeo’ POWDEE. From roasted lupins. 13. Raspings. The raspings of the crust of loaves, procured at the bakers*. Equal to rye coffee. 14. Rice coffee. From rice, as above. A good substitute. 15. Rosetta coffee. From fenugreek seeds moistened with lemon juice. 16. Rye coffee, Dellenius" c.. Hunt’s | beeakfast powdee. Rye, roasted along j with a little butter, and ground to powder. ! A good substitute. 17. Sassafeas coffee. From the fruit or ' nut of the sassafras tree, or from the wood cut i into chips. Very wholesome. Much recom- ! mended in skin diseases, &c. 18. Sylyestee’s coffee, Ieis c. The seeds of the Gladiolus luteus, Iris pseud-acorus, or yellow water flag. Said to be the best , substitute known. , 19. Tuenee’s coffee, Beoom c. From broom seeds roasted with a little butter. 20. AVhiskings, Coffee flights, Coffee MAEC. The husks, &c., of roasted foreign coffee. : Obs. All the above are roasted before j grinding them, with a little fat or lard., i Those which are larger than coffee-berries | are cut into dice about that size before being roasted. 2'hey possess none of the exhilarating properties or medicinal virtues of foreign coffee. COINS. See Medals and Electeotyping. COKE. Charred or carbonized coal. The principle of its manufacture is similar to that of charcoal. There are three varieties of coke:— 1. Kiln-made coke, stifled coke. Made by burning pit-coal in a pile, kiln, or stove. It has a dull-black colour, and produces an intense heat when used as fuel. By con- densing the bituminous vapours which are given off during the process, about 3g of tar may be obtained from common coal, and from some strong coal, by careful treatment, fully lOjj of its weight. The screenings, or dust