1224 SPECIFIC GRAVITY—SPECULUM METAL. Resol'vent Species. Syn. Faein^ ee- SOLVENTES, L. The meal of the seeds of barley, bean, tare, and white lupin. SPECIFIC GRAVTTY is the density of the matter of which any body is composed, com- pared to the density of another body, assumed as the standard, or I’OOO. This standard is pure distilled watee for liquids and solids, and at- MOSPHEEic AIE for gaseous bodies and vapours.^ In England the sp. gr., unless when otherwise expressed, is always taken at 60° Fahr.; but in France it is taken at 32°, or the temperature of melting ice. In the ‘ London Pharma- copoeia,’ “ whenever specific gravity is men- tioned, the substance spoken of is supposed to be of the temperature of 62° Fahr.” In most cases, however, it is sufficient merely to note the temperature, and to apply a cor- rection, depending on the known density of water, or air, at the difierent degrees of the thermometric scale. To determine the specific gravity of a solid, we weigh it, first in the air, and then in water. In the latter case it loses, of its weight, a quantity precisely equal to the weight of its own bulk of water; and hence, by comparing this weight with its total weight, we find its specific gravity. The rule is—Divide the total weight by the loss of weight in water ; the quo- tient is the specific gravity. The specific gravity of a substance lighter than water may he determined by attaching it to some substance, as a piece of lead, the sp. gr., &c., of which are known. In this way, by deducting the loss in weight of the two sub- stances, when weighed in water, from the loss sustained by the lead alone, when so weighed, we obtain a difference (a) which, added to the weight of the substance taken in air (b), gives the respective densities. From these the sp. gr. is found by the rule of three:— (a -f- 5) : 1 :: 5 : sp. gr. The specific gravity of substances soluble in water are taken in pure oil of turpentine, recti- fied spirit, olive oil, or some other liquid, the density of which is exactly known. Sometimes, for rough purposes, the article is covered with a coating of mastic varnish. This last method answers for mercurial pill. The specific gravity of a liquid or a gas is found by weighing it in a sp. gr. bottle, glass flask, or other vessel of known capacity, and dividing that weight by the weight of the same hulk of water; the quotient is, as before, the specific gravity. A bottle of the capacity of 1000 water-grains (specieic geatity bottle) gives the density of a liquid at once, by simply filling it to the given mark, and then accu- rately weighing it. The specific gravity of a substance in frag- ments, or in powder, may be found by putting a portion (say 100 gr.) into a sp, gr. bottle, 1 By many modern chemists hydrogen, the lightest sub- stance in nature, is taken as the standard for the specific gravity of gases and vapours. filling the latter with distilled water, and then weighing it. The weight of water which it is found to contain, deducted from 1000 (the weight of the bottle when filled with distilled, water), gives a difference (a) which bears the same relation to the sp. gr. of water (I'OOO) as the weight of the powder {fi) put into the bottle does to the required sp.gr. Or— a : I’OOO b : sp.gr. The specific gravity of alloys and mixtures, when no condensation has occurred, is equal to the sum of the weights divided by the sum of the volumes, compared to water reckoned as unity; and is not merely the arithmetical mean between the two numbers denoting the two sp. sp., as is frequently taught. See Beads (LovFs), Hydeometee, Mixtuees (Arithme- tic of), &c. SPECTACLES. See Eye, Vision, &c. SPECTROSCOPE. An instrument devised for examining the spectra of fiames. (See below?^ SPECTRUM ANAL'YSIS. A method of determining the chemical constituents of sub- stances, devised by Kirchhoff and Bunsen. It consists in letting the rays of a fiame, coloured by the substance under examination, pass first through a narrow slit, then through a prism, and observing them, when thus refracted, through a telescope. A distinct spectrum is obtained for every flame-colouring metal; thus, SODIUM, which gives a yellow colour to the flame, has a spectrum consisting of a double yellow line; potassium, which burns with a purple light, gives red and blue lines ; lithium also gives red and blue lines, but they are of a different tint and in a different part of the spectrum; calcium gives red, yellow, green, and blue lines; baeium a great number of green lines, and so on. To produce a suitable flame, of great heating power but small lu- minosity, a Bunsen’s gas-lamp is usually employed; in this flame the substance to be examined is burned on a loop of fine platinum wire. The instrument employed for producing and viewing the spectra is called a specteo- SCOPE. This method of analysis is so delicate, that a quantity of sodium but little exceeding the millionth part of a grain may be detected by it. Since its introduction, four new metals have been discovered by it, namely, C.ESIUM, EUBIDIUM, THALLIUM, and INDIUM.^ See Flame Coloues, &c. SPEC'ULUM MET'AL. Prep. 1. Take of copper, 64 parts; pure tin, 29 parts; melt them separately under a little black flux ; next incor- porate them thoroughly by stirring with a wooden spatula, and run the metal into the moulds, so that the face of the intended mir- ror may be downwards; lastly, allow the whole to cool very slowly. 2. Pure copper, 2 parts; pure tin, 1 part. Used to make the mirrors of reflecting tele- 2 See the last editions of Townes’s “ Manual of Che- mistry," and Tresenius’s “ Qualitative Analysis." [j