791 IRON. about 7 gr. of sesquioxide of iron.” (Ph. L.) Ammonio-chloride of iron is tonic, emmena- gogue, and aperient. Dose. 5 to 15 gr.; in glandular swellings, obstructions, &c. Ammo"nio-cit'rate of Iron. Syn. Feeeic- CITEATE OE AMMONIA, CiTEATE OF lEON AND AMMONIA, CiTEATE OF lEON ; FeEEI AMMONIO- ciTEAS (Ph. L. & D.), L. There are several preparations to which the term ^citrate of iron’ has been applied. That commonly known under this name is really a double citrate of iron and ammonia, and appears to be correctly called ‘ ammonio-cilrate of iron ’ in our Phar- macopoeias. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Sulphate of iron, 12 oz.; carbonate of soda, 12^ oz.; dissolve each sepa- rately in boiling distilled water, 6 pints; mix the solutions whilst still hot, and allow the precipitate to subside; after a time decant the supernatant liquor, wash the precipitate frequently with water (drain it), add of citric acid (in powder), 6 oz., and dissolve by the aid of a gentle heat; when the whole has cooled, add of liquor of ammonia—Ph. L., 9 fl. oz., and gently evaporate to the consistence of a syrup; in this state spread it very thinly on flat earthenware dishes (or sheets of ( glass), dry by a gentle heat, and when dry keep it in well-stopped bottles. ! 2. (Ph. D.) Citric acid, 4 oz.; distilled water, 16 fl. oz.; hydrated peroxide of iron, obtained from sulphate of iron, 5 oz.; liquor of ammonia, ^fl.oz., or q. s. Obs. This diflers from the process of the . London College chiefly in the precipitate from , the sulphate of iron being at once converted into HTDEATED SESQUIOXIDE OF lEON (which see) by the addition of nitric acid, a trouble and expense uselessly incurred, as the same ' change occurs spontaneously during the usual ^ process. “ The formula of the Dublin College would prepare a salt with an excess of citrate of ammonia.” (Royle.) 3. (Wholesale.) A mixture of iron filings and citric acid, in powder, with barely sufficient ' water to cover it, is kept in a warm situation ' for some days, occasionally stirring the mass, I and replacing the water as it evaporates. A saturated solution is next made in distilled water, there being previously added more * citric acid (about half the weight of the acid > first used), as required; it is then neutralized - with liquor of ammonia (about \\ oz. of liquor I of ammonia, sp. gr. *882, to every gallon of the solution of sp. gr. 1*025), and the solution is concentrated by evaporation; the process ' is then completed as in No. 1. The first part of this process produces a salt of the prot- 1 oxide of iron, which is afterwards converted, 1 by exposure to the atmosphere, into a citrate I of the magnetic oxide, and, lastly, into citrate of peroxide of iron. I Obs. The formula of the Ph. L. is essen- } tlally that of Beral. The third formula is based on Mr. Aikin’s process for the preparation of his ammonio-taeteate of ieon. Pharma- ceutical writers have been so diffuse in their disquisitions on the preparation of this salt, as would lead to the inference that there is some difficulty attending it. The contrary is, however, the case. The only care necessary is to spread the syrupy solution very thinly on warm sheets of glass to dry, which it will rapidly do if they are placed in an atmosphere of warm dry air, for which purpose a ‘ drying closet’ is the most convenient. The dry salt may then be easily detached from the glass, and will form thin scales, or lamellae, of great brilliancy and beauty. It is also better to use a little more oxide than the acid will dissolve, as the remainder may be employed in a future operation. Less water may be used, or even a larger quantity than that mentioned; but in the first case the liquid will become difficult to filter—in the latter it will require more eva- poration. Boiling water dissolves about twice its weight of citric acid, and retains ^^ths of this quantity in solution when cold, and it takes rather more than twice the weight of the citric acid in moist hydrated protoxide of iron to produce saturation. Prop., ^c. This beautiful salt is of a rich ruby colour, and forms glistening transparent scales, very soluble in aqueous menstrua, and the resulting solution is less easily decomposed by reagents than the solutions of most of the other salts of iron. It is ‘compatible’ with the alkaline carbonates and bicarbonates, and several other salts, and is nearly tasteless, advantages which have been perhaps overrated by both prescriber and patient. It is doubtful whether this article has not obtained a larger sale from its pleasing appearance than from its medicinal virtues. Several persons who have prepared it in lumps or powder, by the simple evaporation of the solution to dryness, have been unable to sell it under that form, even at a lower price. Ammonio-citrate of iron is “soluble in water; the solution neither changes the colour of litmus nor turmeric; nor is it turned blue by ferrocyanide of potassium; but either potassa or lime water being added, it throws down sesquioxide of iron, and ammonia is evolved. From 100 gr. dissolved in water, potassa pre- cipitates about 34 gr. of sesquioxide of iron.” (Ph. L.) Dose. 3 to 10 gr., in water, wine, or bitter infusions. See Citeate of Ieon. Ammo”nio-Tar'trate of Iron. Syn. Tae- TEATE OF IEON AND AMMONIA, FeEEIC TAE- TEATE OF AMMONIA; FeEEI AMMONIO-TAE- TEAS, AmmonijE feeeo-taeteas, L. Prep. 1. (Aikin.) Tartaric acid, 1 part; iron f lings, 3 parts; digest in a sufficient quantity of hot water to barely cover the mixture for 2 or 3 days, observing to stir it frequently, anl to add just enough water to allow the evolved gas to escape freely; next add liquor of am- monia, in slight excess, stir well, dilute with water, decant, wash the undissolved portion of iron, filter the mixed liquors, and evaporate to