BROMISATINE—BRONZE. 367 and condense into drops of bromine, which are collected by plunging the neck of the re- tort nearly to the bottom of a small receiver containing a little very cold ivater. The beo- MiNE forms a stratum beneath the water, and may be collected, and at once put into a stop- pered bottle; or, it may be further purified by distillation from dry chloride of calcium. Prop., 8(c. A dark, reddish-coloured, vola- tile liquid, having an odour intermediate be- tween that of chlorine and iodine, but much more suffocating and offensive. It solidifies at about 19°, and boils at about 145° Eahr. It is slightly soluble in water, more so in alco- hol, and abundantly so in ether. Its aqueous solution bleaches like chlorine, but less power- fully. With hydrogen it forms htdeobro'mic ACID; and with the bases, compounds called bro'mides or hydeobeo'mates. Its sp. gr. is 2-976; that of its vapour, 5’39. Tests. It is readily recognised by its colour, odour, and volatility, and by the colour of its vapour; by its giving a yellowish-white precipitate with nitrate of silver, which is turned violet by the action of light; and by its solutions giving an orange or yellow colour to starch, and a tinge to solution of chloride of gold. Uses, Sfc. Bromine possesses very similar medicinal properties to iodine, and has been administered in goitre, scrofula, 8(c., in the form of an aqueous solution composed of 1 part of bromine to 40 of water, of which 5 or 6 drops is the dose; but it is more usually given under the form of bromide of potassium (which see). The solution has also been used as a lotion. It is very poisonous; the anti- dotes, Sfc., resemble those for iodine. See Bromide, Solutions, &c. Chlo"ride of Bromine. Syn. BeominTi I CHLORI'dum, L. Prep. A current of dry chlorine is transmitted through bromine,'dccidi the disengaged vapour condensed in a ^ re- ceiver’ surrounded with ice. A volatile red- dish fluid, soluble in water, without decom- position. I'odide of Bromine. Syn. Beomin'ii iodi'- DUM, L. Prep. 1. (Neu'tral.) Iodine, 63 parts; is added gradually and cautiously to I bromine, 40 parts ; and the mixture submitted I to distillation. Volatile, reddish-coloured, ar- I borescent crystals. I 2. (Bini'odide.) As the last, but using 80 I parts of bromine. A volatile dark-coloured 1 liquid, soluble in water. • BROMISATINE ; Bibromisatine. Com- I pounds formed by the action of bromine on i isatine. Treated with potassa, they yield acids ! of the same names. BROMOBENZOTC ACID. A compound dis- covered by Peligot, and prepared by exposing benzoate of silver to the vapour of bromine until it ceases to be absorbed, when the newly- 1 formed acid is dissolved out with ether and i obtained by evaporation, j BRO'MOFORM. A heavy volatile liquid pre- pared from bromine by a similar process to that adopted for ‘ chloroform.’ It is also formed when a strong aqueous solution of caustic alkali is made to act on bromal. It is decomposed by alkalies into bromide of po- tassium and formiate of potassa. BROMO-HYDROSALICYLTC ACID. Acorn- pound obtained by the action of bromine on hydride of salicyle. It forms needle-like crys- tals. BROMOPHENIS'IC ACID. It greatly re- sembles, and is prepared by analogous means to those adopted for chlorophenisic acid. BROMOSAMIDE. Formed by the action of ammonia on bromo-hydrosalicylic acid. BRONCHI'TIS (-brong-kf-). [L.; prim. Gr.] In pathology, inflammation of the mucous lining of the ‘bronchia’ or smaller ramifica- tions of the windpipe. In its milder form it is popularly called a ‘ cold on the chest.’ Symp. The usual symptoms are hoarseness, dry cough, and a slight degree of fever, fol- lowed by expectoration of mucus, at first thin, and afterwards thick and copious. In the severer forms there is more fever, cough, and oppression at the chest, &c. Treatm. It generally yields to small and repeated doses of ipecacuanha, and antimonial diaphoretics ; a light diet and mild purgatives being at the same time adopted. BRON'CHOCELE (brong'-ko-sele). See Goitre. BRONZE. [Eng., Fr., Ger.] Syn. ^S, L.; Bronzo, It. An alloy of tin and copper, remark- able for the exactness of the impressions which it takes by moulding and stamping, as well as for its great durability. It has hence been always extensively employed in the casting of busts, medals, statues, &c. In ancient times, when the manufacture of steel was ill-under- stood, cutting instruments were commonly made of it. It was also the general material of coins of small value; a use which, of late years, has been revived in several of the states of Europe, and still more recently in the coinage of these realms. Bell-metal, gun-metal, and speculum-metal, are mere varieties of bronze. Prep. On the small scale, this alloy is pre- pared in crucibles; \)vX ^ov statues larger works, on reverberatory hearths. The fusion of the mixed metals is conducted as rapidly as possible under pounded charcoal, and the melted mass is frequently stirred together to produce a perfect mixture, before casting. The proportions of the materials so vary in different castings, that it is almost impossible to say precisely what quantities are the best. The following are given as examples:— a. For Edge-tools:—Copper, 100 parts; tin, 14 parts. When skilfully hardened and tempered this alloy is capable of receiving an edge nearly equal to that of steel. b. For Gilding :—1. Copper, 82 parts; zinc, 18 parts; tin, 3 parts; lead, 2 parts. 2. From copper, 83 parts; zinc, 17 parts; tin, 2 parts; lead, 1 part.