17 ACETIC ACID. or twice a day. (See Engr.) The product of a case of 12 cubic feet content, with 7 or 8 oz. of platinum-powder, is capable of producing daily, if well managed, nearly 1^ Ih. of anhy- DEOCJS ACETIC ACID from 1 Ih. of absolute al- cohol; 25 lb. of platinum-powder and 300 lb. of alcohol will, in like manner, furnish a daily supply of nearly 350 lb. of ptjee acid, and of other strengths in proportion. Theoretically, the product should be 110*6 of anhydrous acetic acid, and 5 or 6 parts of water, (eq. to 130 parts of the * hydrated acid,’) for every 100 parts of alcohol consumed; but this is never quite obtained in practice, owing to a small i portion of the alcohol mixing with the newly- formed acid, and escaping decomposition; and from another small portion of both the alco- hol, and of the newly-formed aldehyde, being carried off by the air that permeates the appa- ratus. The platinum powder does not waste. and the most inferior spirit may generally be employed. Ratio. In this process, the alcohol (as in other cases of acetification) is first converted into aldehyde ; and this, as rapidly as formed, absorbs oxygen and passes into hydrated acetic acid. The simultaneous formation of aldehyde during the oxygenation of that already formed, may be detected by its odour. Obs. During the mutual action of the platinum-black and the vapour of alcohol, the temperature increases, and continues to do so until all the oxygen contained in the air in- closed in the case is consumed, when the ace- tification stops. On opening the case for a ! short time, to admit of a fresh supply of air, the operation recommences, thus showing its dependence on the oxygen of the atmosphere. ! For this transmutation, 100 grains of alcohol I require 71 grains (equal to 200 cubic inches) of i oxygen, or about 1000 cubic inches of atmo- spheric air. To render the process continuous I and rapid, a fresh supply of air must, there- fore, be constantly provided. This may be effected by either having a loosely covered opening at the top of the case, and se- veral much smaller ones near its lower part; or (and preferably) by means of two small glass tubes passing through the lid or cover, one of which terminates just below the point of in- I sertion, whilst the other divides into branches I which reach to within a short distance from ! the bottom, as shown in the engr. In this ' way a very slow current of fresh air will always be kept up in the apparatus. In practice, we find, that by loosely spread- ing the platinum-black on pieces of platinum- gauze, and supporting these on small tripods or bars of glass or porcelain (or even wood), the watch-glasses and their troublesome suspension may be dispensed with; as also may be the ‘ strip of porous paper,’ provided a tempera- ture of not less than 90° Fahr. be maintained in the case or acetifier, which may easily be done by the application of artificial heat in the absence of sunshine. On the large scale, a case of wood with a glass roof, or even a well-seasoned cask or vat may be employed, in which case the temperature of the appa- ratus must be kept up either by means of steam-pipes or flues, or by the supply of warm air. On the small scale, a hand bell-glass placed on a dish, with a single watch-glass or piece of platinum-gauze, and a single capsule con- taining alcohol, may be used, provided the bell-glass be supported on three very small wedges, to admit of a supply of air. A mo- dification of this is sometimes employed, in which the alcohol is supplied, in drops, to the platinum-black, by means of a long, tu- bular funnel passing through the mouth of the bell-glass, and hav- ing its lower extremity drawn to a very fine point, as shown in the engr. To ensure success, the platinum-black should be either fresh-pre- pared, or recently washed and very gently heated, before placing it in the acetifier. ‘ Spongy platinum,’ though ordered by many chemical compilers, does not answer well for this process. By the above elegant and economical pro- cess, perfectly pure acetic acid of considerable strength may be produced from even ‘impure’ alcohol; but it is impossible in this way to obtain a concentrated acid without a subse- quent operation, because the action of plati- num-black on absolute alcohol, or even on strong alcohol, is so violent that the platinum soon begins to glow, and inflammation ensues. Unfortunately the revenue laws of this coun- try, until lately, stood in the way of the adop- tion of this beautiful process, unless duty-paid, alcohol or methylated spirit be employed; but there is no statute that prevents an individual employing pure spirit, of any strength, on the small scale, for private consumption. In Ger- many, and in the United States of America, vinegar is manufactured on this plan, and from the low price of crude alcohol there, it will no doubt prove ultimately to be the cheapest source of both pure acetic acid and culinary vine- gars. VI. Miscellaneous Formulae: — 1. An excellent acetic acid, of considerable strength, may be made by soaking fresh burnt and perfectly dry charcoal in common vinegar, and then subjecting it to distillation. The water comes over first, and on increasing the heat, the acid follows. Vinegar-bottoms and waste vinegar may be used. 2. By exposing vinegar, or dilute acetic acid, to the air in very cold weather, or to freezing mixtures, the water separates in the form of ice, and the strong acetic acid may be obtained by draining it into suitable glass vessels, observing to do so at a temperature suffi- 9