228 ARSENIOUS ACID. has, by personal examination, failed to detect the slightest trace of arsenic. Commercial sulphuric, nitric, and hydrochloric acids, potash, soda, nitre, iron, and zinc, frequently contain arsenic; from which, however, they may he easily and entirely freed by chemical processes; or they may he purchased in the pure state from respectable dealers in chemi- cals. But no assurance of the vendor should he regarded as a proof of their purity. In all judicial investigations the absence of arsenic in the several ‘ tests ’ and ‘ reagents,^ and the ‘apparatus^ employed, must be demonstrated and sworn to. We may further add, that the results afforded by no sing-le test can be depended on. In matters of such vast im- portance, the most ample confirmatory evi- dence must be sought. Marsh’s, Rensch’s, Lassaigne’s, the Sulphur, and the Reduction Tests, and their modifica- tions, are those now generally preferred by toxicological chemists; each of which, with its ^ confirmatory tests,^ are amply sufficient for the indisputable identification of arsenic. “No one, in the present day, would think of employing liquid tests in solutions in which arsenic was mixed with organic matter;”^ nor, indeed, with the exception of the ammo- nio-nitrate of silver, and perhaps the ammo- nio-sulphate of copper, are they sufficiently characteristic for adoption under any circum- stances in which we can employ those pre- viously mentioned. “ Modern toxicologists have abandoned all the old processes for the detection of arsenic, and have adopted one of two, which have been found more expeditious, as well as more certain.” These are the Tests of Marsh and Kensch; “but I prefer the latter.” (Herapath.) Heeapath’s Method is to obtain deposits by ‘ Rensch’s Test ’ on 4 or 5 pieces of No. 13 copper-wire ; each piece being about 2| inches long, and previously flattened and planished with a polished hammer for about one-half its length. The ‘deposit/ with some of the adhering copper, scraped from one of these coated pieces, is “ sealed up hermetically in a tube for future production.” The ‘ scrapings ’ from three pieces of wire are separately sub- mitted to the ‘ sublimation test ’ in tubes bent in the form of an obtuse V, capillary at one end, and about i^gths of an inch in diameter at the other; the capillary leg being about three times as long as the larger one. The ‘scrap- ings ’ are placed in the bent part of the tube; and the flame of a small spirit-lamp is so ap- plied as to slowly drive the sublimate into the narrower portion of the tube, which is held rather higher than the other. If the ‘ deposit so obtained^ be mercury, it condenses in white shining globules;—if lead or bismuth, it does not rise but melts into a yellowish glass, which adheres to the copper;—if tellurium, it falls as a white amorphous powder ;—if antimony, it does not rise at that low temperature ; but 1 Taylor “ On Poisons,” p. 389. | —if it be AESENic, it sublimes as arsenions acid, which “ condenses as minute octahedral crystals, looking, with the microscope, like very transparent grains of sand.” One of these tubes containing the ‘ sublimed arsenious acid ^ is then sealed up, like the first one, for future production. The ‘ capillary part ’ of another tube, containing the sublimate, is then cut off, and carefully boiled in a few drops (10 to 15) of distilled water; and, when cold, 3 or 4 drops of the resulting solution is poured on a plate of white porcelain, and to this, by means of a glass-rod, one drop of solution of ammoniacal sulphate of copper is added. The mixture is then carefully con- ducted on- to a piece of white filtering-paper set on the surface of a smooth, clean, and dry chalk-stone, by which the moisture is absorbed, and the smallest portion of ‘Scheele’s green ^ produced by the test rendered more conspicuous. The ammonio-nitrate of silver test is then applied, in a similar manner, to 3 or 4 drops of the remaining solution; after which, the pieces of paper with the spots are dried, and sealed up in separate tubes, as before, observing to exclude the light from that containing the yellow precipitate of ar- senite of silver. A stream of sulphuretted hydrogen is then passed through the remaining tube containing the arsenical sublimate, by which the latter is converted into the yellow tersulphuret—this too is sealed up. Here are - now fve tests—“ the metal, the acid, ak- I SENITE OF COFFEE, AESENITE OF SILVEE, and YELLOW TEESHLFHTJEET OF AESENIC; and the of a gr. of arsenic is sufficient, in adroit hands, to produce the whole; but all five must be present, or there is no positive proof.” 2 Wollaston’s Method was to concentrate by heat, in a capsule, a little of the ‘ sus- pected liquid,’ previously decoloured and fil- tered (if necessary), and then to place it in the middle of a piece of window-glass, and to draw ‘ lines ’ with the fluid in different direc- tions, so as to form a star-like figure. To one of these rays a portion of a drop of weak solution of ammonio-nitrate of silver was ap- plied; to another, ammonio-acetate of copper; to' a third, deutoacetate of iron; to a fourth, ammonio-acetate of cobalt; sulphuretted hy- drogen to a fifth, and lime water to a sixth; a drop of syrup of violets to a seventh; and the two terminal wires of a galvanic battery to the opposite edges of the whole. In this way several very exact experiments were performed by him with a very small quantity of the ‘ sus- pected fluid.’ Our own plan is to employ Marsh’s, Rensch’s, and the Sulphur Test in the same investiga- tion ; and to preserve from the last two, orj| one of them, three tubes—one containing a^ portion of ‘ coated gauze ;’ another, an ‘ ar- senical mirror;’ and a third, a ‘ sublimate of arsenious acid.’ All this may be done, by 2 Mr. W. Herapath.