AMMONIACAL—AMMONIUM. 158 i gentle beat, and crystallise; or evaporate to dryness, and powder the residuum. Prop., ^c. Prismatic crystals, or a crystal- line mass; soluble and efflorescent. Its medicinal properties and doses resemble those of ‘ citrate of ammonia\ 2. Bitar'trate of Ammonia. iSyn. Am:mo"ki^ Bitae'teas, L. Prep. To a strong* solution of tartaric acid, add another of sesqui- carbonate of ammonia, or of tartrate of am- monia, as long as a precipitate falls; which must be collected and dried. Prop., 4*0. A crystalline powder, only slightly soluble in water, closely resembling ordinary cream of tartar. It is diaphoretic, diuretic, and deobstruent, and is frequently, though improperly sold for the preceding preparation. U"rate of Ammonia. Syn. Aih3I0"nee u"eas, L. The common constituent of urinary de- posits. See Ueic Acid. Vale"rianate of Ammonia. Syn. Ammo'^ni^e YALEEIa'nas, L. Prep. Saturate valerianic acid with strong liquor of ammonia, and evapo- rate the resulting liquid to a syrupy consistence at a heat under 175° Fahr.; then add twice its volume of alcohol, and, after agitation, allow it to crystallise by spontaneous evaporation.— Dose. 2 to 8 or 10 gr.; in neuralgia, epilepsy, hypochondriasis, hysteria, low fevers of an intermittent kind, &c.; also in dyspepsia and debility complicated with these affections. Van'adate of Ammonia. Syn. Amm:o"ni^ van'adas, L. It is soluble in water, and crystallisable. For preparation see Vanadic Acid. AMMONI'ACAL. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ammo- niaca'lis, L. Pertaining to, or possessing the odour or properties of ammonia. See A3IM0NIA, PeEFUMES, &C. AMMONIACA"LIA. [L.] In medicine and pharmacology, a sub-order of remedies includ- ing ammonia and its carbonates. AMMONrACUM. [L.; Ph. L., E., & D.] Syn. Gum AMMONIACUM, G. AMMO"NIACf; GoMiiE AMMOXiAQUE, Fi*.; Ammoniae, Ger. The gummy-resinous exudation of dorema ammoniacuni (Don), indurated by the air. “It is either in lumps” (ammoniacum in placen'tis, a. in mas'sis) ; “ or has the ap- pearance of being composed of grains ” (a. in lac'etmis, a. in gea'nis). “ That which is lumpy requires purification.’’ (Ph. L.) Gum ammoniacum has a pale Imff or brownish-yellow colour, an unpleasant odour, especially when heated, and a nauseous and slightly bitter taste. It is a mild, stimulating expectorant and emmenagogue; and its effects on the system resemble those of assa- foetida, except in being weaker. Externally, it is resolvent.—Dose, io to 30 gr. in pills or emulsion. Strained' Ammoniacum. Syn. Peepaeed Ammoniacum; Ammoni'acum pe^paea'tum (Ph. L.), L. Prep. (Ph. L. 1851.) Boil ammoniacum in water just sufficient to cover it; strain the mixture through a hair sieve. and constantly stirring, evaporate in a water bath, until, on cooling, it becomes hard. The product, owing to loss of volatile oil, is much weaker than tlie unprepared gum-resin. The process is only necessary with rough lump- ammoniacum. AMMO"NIATE * (-mone'-e-ate). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Ammo"nias, L. An ammoniuret. AMMO"NIATED. Syn. Ammonia'tus, L. In pharmacy, perfumery, S^c., applied to pre- 1 parations containing ammonia. ! AMMON'IC Syn. AmmonTcus, L. ; ! Ammonique, Fr. In chemistry, denoting a j salt or compound assumed to contain ammo- I nium. (Berzelius.) I AM'MONIDE (-nid). An amide, j AMMO"NIO-, Ammon'ico-. In chemistry, a common prefix to double salts containing ammonia; as ammonio-citrate, a.-chloride, or a.-tartrate of iron, &c. See the resjyective bases. AMMO"NIUM (-mone'-yum). [Eng., Fr., L.] In chemistry, the name given by Davy to the hypothetical compound radical (NHJ of the ammonia-salts, according to the theory of Ber- zelius. From the deportment of sal ammoniac (chloride of ammonium) with mercury, under j the influence of powerful electricity, it is as- sumed to be a metal. All attempts to isolate it have failed; and its existence is not impro- ; bably confined to the fertile brains of theoreti- i cal chemists. See Ammonia, Amalgams, &c. Bro'mide of Ammonium. See Hydeobeo- mate of Ammonia. Chlo"ride of Ammonium. See Htdeochlo- EATE OF xYmMONIA. Ferrocy'anide of Ammonium. Syn. Feeeo- cy'anate of ammonia, Hydeofeeeocy'anate OF a.*, PeUS"sIATE of A.f; AMMO"nII FEE- I eocyani'dum, Ammo"nije feeeocy'anas, L.; I Feeeocyanate d’ammoniaque, Fr. Prep. 1. j Saturate a solution of hydroferrocyanic acid ! with sesquicarbonate of ammonia, in slight ex- I cess; evaporate the solution at a heat below ebullition, and crystallise by refrigeration. 2. Digest ferrocyanide of lead or of iron in a solution of sesquicarbonate of ammonia, at a gentle heat, for some time ; then filter, evapo- rate, and crystallise. Prop., H(c. It is isomorphous with ferrocy- anide of potassium; it is easily crystallisable, very soluble in water, and is decomposed by ebullition. Iodide of Ammonium. See Hydeiodate of Ammonia. Plat'ino-bichlo"ride of Ammonium. See Am- MONIO-CHLOEIDE OF PLATINUM. Sulphocy'anide of Ammonium. Syn. Sul- FHOCYAN'UEET OF AMMONIUM*, HyDEOSUL- PHOCY'ANATE of AMMONIA*; AmMO"nII SUL- phocyani'dum, &c., L. Prep. 1. Neutralise hydrosulphocyanic acid with ammonia, and gently evaporate the solution to dryness, by the heat of a water-bath. 2. Digest hydrocyanic acid with yellow bi- sulphuret of ammonium, and, after a time, evaporate as before. I I i I I !!ii 'ilii A'j