133 AMBER. i i n ■ i r! ia..- nil It I j 'and drunken); excessive indulgence of the pas- Isions; intense passion, excitement, or depres- ision (particularly terror or anger); hseinor- [rhage; leucorrhcea; prolonged lactation; sud- idcn suppression of accustomed discharges; ex- cessive drinking; the excessive use of nar- cotics, and particularly of tobacco; with all ! other causes of debility or nervous derange- jment, frequently produce amaurosis. It is jalso not unfrequently congenital, is sometimes | fhereditary, and may arise tluring any period jof life, though it is more general after the j middle age. Treatm. In cases associated with debility, [‘ tonics’ (as iron, bark, quinine, 8^c.) may be ad- ; ministered, and the patient supported with a good diet of easily digestible food. When there is plethora, wdth pain, flashes of light, muscse volitantes, &c., the diet should be reduced, and cupping or leeching on the temples or behind the ears, with aperients, should be had recourse to, followed by alterative doses of mercury, and occasional blisters or irritants to the temples, liack of the neck, or behind the ears. When the affection arises from any other disease or cause, our attention must be at once directed to the removal of the latter or its consequences, iind the treatment will necessarily vary ac- (!ordingly. In the greater number of cases, which are those without any material derange- ment of the health, or any direct assignable cause, mercury (chloride or bichloride) or iodide of potassium, in very small alterative doses, joften proves serviceable; as does also the daily application of strychnine to the brow or temple [(previously denuded of the cuticle by a blister), beginning with the l-12th or 1-lo'th of a gr., rubbed up with a grain or two of olive oil or lard. When the cause is the disuse of the eye, the gradual assumption of its usual employ- ment should be tried; but in all other cases, rest or "greatly reduced use of the eyes is recommended. When possible, out-door exer- cise in the country, especially in parts covered with green foliage or herbage, will be found both grateful and beneficial. Mild streaming electricity has been, in some few cases, successfully employed as a remedy for this distressing affection, when all others have failed. For this purpose, one of String- fellow’s or Pulvermacher’s ‘portable batteries’ will be found convenient. AM'BER. Syn. Elec'teon,- Gr.; Elec'- thum, Suc'cixttm (Ph. I).), L.'; Ambre, Sec- CTX, Fr.; BeRE^STEI>’’, Ger.; LTXX-STONEf, L.v'pis LTN'cisf, L. A well-known yellowish, semi-transparent, fossil resin, of which trinkets and the mouth-pieces of pipes are commonly made. Hist. Amber has been in great repute from the earliest times. Thales noticed that when rubbed, it acquires the power of attracting light bodies. (B. C., GOO.) Theophrastus also observed the same property, and wrote upon it. (B. C., 300.) It was highly esteemed as a medicine long before the Christian era. 1 Nat. hist., 8fc. Amber is found in detached pieces on the sea coast, and is dug up in dilu- vial soils. That of commerce comes chiefly from the southern coasts of the Baltic, where it is cast ashore between Konigsberg and Memel; and from Ducal Prussia, Saxony, Poland, Sicily, and Maryland (U.S.), where it is dug out of beds or mines. It has also been found on the shores of Korfolk, and small pieces are occasionally dug up in the gravel pits round London. It is probably an ante- diluvian resin; and when found on the coast, is supposed to be disengaged, by the action of the sea, from neighbouring beds of lignite or fossil coal. Much dh^ersity of opinion for a long time prevailed amongst naturalists and chemists as to the origin of amber, some refer- ring it to the vegetable, others to the mineral, and some even to the animal kingdom; its natural history and analysis affording some- thing in favour of each. The vegetable origin of amber has, however, been recently shown by various facts, and is now generally ad- mitted. xiccording to Sir David Brewster, its optical properties are those of an indurated vegetable juice. (“ Ed. Phil. Journ.f ii.) In- sects and fragments of vegetables are fre- quently found embedded in it; and this in a manner which could only have occurred when the resin was ar viscid fluid. Microscopical researches have led to the conclusion that it is the production of some species of pine, closely allied to the pinus balsamea. (“ Entom. Trans.i. & ii.) The suggestion of Liebig, that it is a derivative of wax, fat, or some fixed oil—because ‘ succinic acid’ may be pro- duced by the oxidation of stearic acid and margaric acid—is a gratuitous effort to import doubts into u subject which previously ap- peared to be settled. Manvf. Amber is worked in a lathe, pol- ished with whiting and water or rottenstone- and-oil, and finished ope by friction with flan- nel. During the operation the pieces often be- come hot and electrical, and fly into fragments; to avoid which, they are kept as cool as possible, and only worked for a short period at a time. The workmen are said to often sufter consider- ably from electrical excitement. Amber is JOINED and MENDED by smearing the surface of the pieces with linseed or boiled oil, and then strongly pressing them together, at the same time holding them over a charcoal fire, or heating them in any other convenient way in which they will not be exposed to injury. The commoner varieties are hardened and rendered clearer, either by boiling them in rape oil for about 24 hours, or by surrounding the pieces with clean sand in an iron pot, and exposing them to a gradually increasing heat for 30 or 40 hours. During this process small fragments are kept in the sand at the side of the pot, for the purpose of occasional exami- nation, lest the heat be raised too high, or be too long continued. Prop.,8fc. Hard; brittle; tasteless; glossy;