978 OILS (VOLATILE). matic, with the characteristic odour and tiavour of cloves. It is the least volatile of all the essential oils. Sp. gr. 1*055 to 1*061. Prod. 162 to 222. Pur. Oil of cloves is frequently adulterated with inferior essential oils, especially with those of pimento, pinks, and clove-gillyflowers, and, occasionally, with castor oil.—1. Pure oil J of cloves forms a butyraceous coagulum when shaken with pure liquor of ammonia, which crystallizes after fusion by a gentle heat.—2. Treated with an alcoholic solution of potassa, it entirely congeals into a crystalline mass, with total loss of its characteristic odour.— 3. Shaken with an equal volume of strong caustic soda lye, it forms, on repose, a mass of delicate lamellar crystals.—4. Solution of chromate of potassa converts it into brown flakes, whilst the salt loses its yellow colour. —5. Chlorine turns it first green, and then brown and resinous.—6. Nitric acid turns it red, and a reddish-brown solid mass is formed ; with heat, it converts it into oxalic acid.—7. It dissolves freely in sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol), yielding a transparent, deep reddish- brown solution, without any visible decom- position.— 8. Mixed, gradually, with about |rd of its weight of oil of vitriol, an acid liquor is formed, together with a resin of a rich purple colour, which, after being washed, is hard and brittle, and forms a red tincture with rectified spirit, which is precipitated of a blood-red colour by water.—9. It dissolves iodine freely, without any marked reaction.— 10. It dissolves santaline freely. Obs. Clove oil contains a heavy oil, sp. gr. 1*079 (cARYOPHTLLic acid), and a light oil, sp. gr. *918 (clove htdeocaebon) ; by recti- fication, much of the light oil is lost, and the product becomes denser. (1*361—Bonastre.) Cog'nac Oil. See Geape Oil {below). Oil of Copai'ba. Syn. Oil of capiyi ; Oleum copaiba (Ph. L. & E.), L. 1. (Ph. E.) Balsam of capivi, 1 oz.; water, 1^ pint; distil, returning the water into the still, until oil ceases to pass over. 2. {Wholesale.) From the crude oil which separates during the manufacture of ^ specific SOLUTION OF COPAIBA ’ and ‘ SOLUBLE CAPIVI,’ bv distillation along with a little salt-and- water. Pur., 4*0. Colourless, when pure; that of commerce has frequently a greenish tinge, derived from the copper utensils; odour, not disagreeable when recent. Sp. gr. *876 to *878. Prod. 50g to 55§. When adulterated with oil of turpentine, its solubility in rec- tified spirit is greatly diminished, and the solution is turbid. Dose. 10 to 15 drops, in sugar; in the usual cases in which copaiba is ordered. Oil of Corian'der. Syn. Oleum coeiandei, L. From the fruit (seeds) of Coriandrum sativum. Yellowish; aromatic; carminative. Prod. (Dried fruit) 5^ to 6§. Corn Oil. The name given by Mulder to a peculiar fatty compound found in the fusel oil of the distilleries of Holland. It has a very powerful odour, resembling that of some of the umbelliferous plants, and is unaffected by caustic potassa. See Fusel Oil {page 676). Oil of Cu'bebs. Syn. Oleum cubebaeum, O. CUBEB^ (Ph. E. & D.), L. From t\\e fruit \ of Cubeba officinalis, or cubebs, coarsely ground. Aromatic, hot, and bitter tasted; odour, that of the fruit; colourless, when pure. Sp. gr. *929. Prod. 9g to llg. Pur., Sfc. When pure, iodine has little action on this oil, and immediately gives it a violet colour, without any very marked reac- tion; nitric acid turns it opaque, and the mixture changes to a pale red when heated; sulphuric acid turns it of a crimson-red. When , adulterated with oil of turpentine, both its vis- cidity, solubility in rectified spirit, and its density, are lessened; when mixed with castor oil, it leaves a greasy stain on paper.—Dose. : 10 to 15 drops, in the usual cases in which cubebs in substance is given. Oil of Cu'min. Syn. Oleum cumini, 0. ’ CTMiNi, L. From the fresh fruit (seed) of s Cuminum Cyminum, or cumin. Pale yellow ; smells and tastes strongly of the seeds. Sp. gr. |t *975. Prod. 2ito32. ^ „ Obs. Oil of cumin is a mixture of two oils ip differing in volatility, and which may be sepa- ‘ rated by careful distillation. The more vola- | tile one has been named cymol; the other, ip CUMINOL. Oil of Dill. Syn. Oleum anethi (Ph. L. k E.), L. From the bruised fruit (seed) of | Anetheum graveolens. Pale yellow; odour, that of the fruit; taste, hot and pungent; carminative. Sp. gr. *881 to *882. Prod. 4| (nearly). Oil of El'der. Syn. Attae of eldee flow- EES; Oleum sambuci, L. From elder flow- ers {Sambucus nigra). Butyraceous; odour not very marked. Oil of El'emi. Syn. Oleum elemi, L. From the resin. Isomeric with oil of tuepentinb. Oil of Er'got. Syn. Etheeeal o. of e.; Oleum eegot-e, O. e. ^theeeum, O. secalis ; COENUTI, L. Prepared by evaporating the ethereal tincture at a very gentle heat, and, preferably, allowing the last portion of the ether to escape by spontaneous evaporation. Brownish-yellow; lighter than water; soluble in ether and liquor of potassa; only partly soluble in alcohol. It appears to be a mixture; of volatile and fixed oil, with some resinous matter. Dose. 10 to 20 drops, in haemor-; rhages; 10 to 12 drops every 3 or 4 hours, in diarrhoea; 20 to 50 drops, as a parturifacient,; &c. Externally, in rheumatism, toothache, &c. Obs. The above is the oil of ergot now! employed in medicine. It must not be con-i founded with other preparations occasionally called by the same name, but which differ from it in character. Among the latter are; the following:— -i