319 BITTER—BITTERN. the part with spirit of hartshorn or dilute liquor of ammonia, or eau de luce, or a weak , solution of chloride of lime. Should consider- able inflamuaation ensue, and the part become I much swollen, a thing that rarely occurs, leeches ] may be applied, and a cooling purgative given, i The ‘ stings ’ of venomous eeptiles may be ^ similarly treated, excepting that the strength of the ‘ solutions of ammonia,’ ‘ chloride of I lime,’ &c., should be stronger than in the j former case, so as to produce some pain and ! smarting. In cases where the venom is of a I very poisonous description, the wound should I be first well washed with water of ammonia, II and afterwards seared with lunar caustic in j every part, including the interior and deep- I seated portions. In extreme cases, the sur- ) I face of the wound, both internal and external, ) may be removed with the knife; or, in the i| case of a small joint, as a finger, the injured (j portion may be amputated. Prior to the use of the washes or caustic, dry-cupping or suction ' with the mouth may be had recourse to with great advantage. A ligature placed on the I hmb, above the wound, as soon as possible after . j the accident, will impede the absorption of the ■ poison whilst the other treatment is in progress. . 1 A similar plan may be followed after the bite of \ a Doa supposed to be mad. It has, indeed, been i lately asserted by one of our most celebrated veterinarians, that he and his colleagues have : been repeatedly bitten by dogs that have after- I wards been proved to be mad, but from having I fearlessly applied caustic to the parts, they have I escaped uninjured. The poison inserted by the stings and bites of : several venomous eeptiles is so rapidly I absorbed, and of so fatal a description, as fre- . i quently to occasion death within a very short 1 space of time, and before any remedy or anti- »' dote, under ordinary circumstances, can be reapplied. But even in these extreme cases it I i is probable that absorption, and consequently »I the rapidity of the action of the poison, might '! be considerably impeded or lessened by the > immediate application of a ligature above the I part, as before described, the patient accom- i panying the treatment by swallowing a large i i quantity of liquid, by which partial plethora » would be produced, and the functions of the »I absorbents for a time nearly suspended. A . I few minutes, thus gained, wovdd permit of the ; j application of appropriate antidotes, by w'hich -1 the poison might be neutralised before it would :, become necessary to remove the ligature, whilst the kidneys would be in full action. Unfor- 1 tunately, these wounds are generally inflicted 1 in parts of the world where precautionary . measures are seldom thought of, and generally at times when people are least prepared to meet them, as well as so suddenly and unex- : pectedly as to stagger even those observers who may be in no absolute danger themselves. 1 Such is the bite of the East Indian co'bea di Capel'lo, against which two Asiatic (arsenical) vills arc often prescribed by the Hindoos; but which are generally scarcely swallowed before the poison of the serpent has rendered the patient a stiffened corpse. Eau de luce, a favorite remedy in India, when liberally em- ployed both internally and externally, is said to prove sometimes more successful. The bite of the PUEF-ADDEE is of a similar, or even a more fatal description than that of the ‘ cobra.’ When the venom of any of these animals, or of a rabid dog, is once fully absorbed into the system, there appears to be no treatment that can save the patient. A bottle of Madeira wine, or \ a pint of brandy or rum diluted with twice its weight of water, drank in two doses, about 3 or 4 minutes apart, is a popular remedy in India, in such cases. Its effect is to impede absorption. A certain native physician applies a ‘ natural magnet ’ to the wound, with, as is asserted, undeviating success (?). The secret antidote so long successfully em- ployed by Mr. Underwood, the ‘ snake-king’ of Australia, for the bites of the whip-snake and the DIAMOND-SNAKE, two of the most veno- mous of that region, is now positively asserted to be the common male fern {polypo’dium fi'lix mas, Linn.). Of the powdered root, or pre- ferably, of the green leaves of this plant nearest the root, he prepares a sort of decoction, or broth, which he takes or administers liberally. A more convenient preparation would, perhaps, be a tincture prepared by digesting 1 oz. of the dried, or 3 oz. of the fresh leaves, (bruised,) in a pint of proof spirit or strong brandy or rum, for a fortnight; as in this state it could be kept for any length of time, if well-corked, without deterioration. [In connection with the subject of this * ar- ticle’ see Htdeophobia, Poisons, Snake- bites, Stings, Venom, Wounds, &c.^] BITT'ER. [Eng., Ger.] Syn. Ama"eus, L.; Amee, Fr. Tasting like wormwood, quassia, or other similar vegetables; subst., a bitter plant, bark, or root (= ama"eum, L. ; see below). Bitter Apple-J. Colocynth. Bitter Cup. A * cup ’ or ‘ tumbler ’ formed by the turner out of quassia-wood. Liquor, by standing in it a short time, becomes bitter and stomachic. They are now common in the shops. Bitter Earth*. Magnesia. Bitter Herbs. See Bittees {infra) and Species (Bitter). Bitter Saltf, Bitter Bur"ging-salt. Sulphate of magnesia. Bitt'er-sweet. Woody nightshade. Bitt'er-wortJ (-wiirt). Gentian. BITUERH. The mother-water or ‘bitter liquor’ of salt-works from which the chloride of sodium (sea-salt) has been separated by crystallisation. Bittern. An intoxicating poisonous mixture sold by the brewers’ druggists, composed of 1 1 Notices of several chemical and neurotic antidotes, of great promise, will also be found in different parts of this volume. The names of the respective animals may likewise be referred to.