PEARL BARLEY—PEDICULL 1047 Is prepared, being only from 47 to 51§. This exists almost entirely under the form of car- bonate. The commercial value of this sub- stance is determined by the ordinary processes of Alkalimetry. 1 PEARL BARLEY. See Barley. PEARLS (Rose). Syn. Rose beads. The oetals of red roses beaten in an iron mortar for ,ome hours, until they form a smooth, black paste, then rolled into beads and dried. Hard; very fragrant; take a fine polish. PEARL WHITE. This is subchloride oe BISMUTH; but the name is now commonly lipplied to TRISNITRATE OE BISMUTH, which is bold for it. i PEAS. Syn. Garden peas. Motor p. ; Pisa, L. The seed of Pisum sativum (Linn.), [n the fresh state (g-reen peas) they are Saccharine and nutritive, and, with the pods jivhich contain them, are highly serviceable in ;curvy. The last have been used for making beer. The dried seeds are still more nutritious, ,)ut are heavy and flatulent unless well cooked. Por kitchen use, ‘ SPLIT PEAS ’ should be chosen, ind after having washed them in a little clean wft water, and, allowed them to drain, they should be left to soak in cold soft water for at 'east 12 hours before applying heat to them, ind should then be dressed in the same water n which they have been soaked, and be only jently simmered until they are reduced to a pulp. Additions of meat, vegetables, &c., should not be made until they have nearly arrived at this condition. ‘Whole peas^ require soaking for at least 18 or 20 hours. A substitute for green peas in winter may be obtained by placing the dried seed on a flat dish, sprinkling them with water, and keeping them in a warm situation. In a few days germination commences, and, after it has pro- ceeded sufficiently far, the whole is dressed in the usual manner. An easier and simpler plan is to preserve the green peas, when they are in season, by the common method adopted for gooseberries and other like fruit. Is'sue Peas. Syn. Pisa pro eontioulis, L. Orange berries, or the small unripe fruit of the orange tree, dried, and smoothed in a lathe. See Issue. PEB'BLE. The trade name for the trans- parent colourless variety of rock crystal or quartz used for the lenses of spectacles instead of glass, over which, from its extreme hard- ness, it has the advantage of being little apt to be scratched. PEC'TIC ACID. The name given by Bra- connot to an acid which is found very gene- rally diffused throughout the vegetable king- dom, and analogous to jelly. Prep. From carrot roots, from which the juice has been pressed out, by boiling them with j'jth part of their weight of carbonate of potassa, and about 6 times their weight of water, until the liquid becomes gelatinous when neutralized with an acid. A pectate OF POTASSA is formed, from which the acid may be obtained by neutralizing the alkali with a stronger acid, or by carefully adding a solution of chloride of calcium as long as a gelatinous precipitate (pectate oe lime) falls, and, after washing this with water, decom- posing it with dilute hydrochloric acid. Prop., ^c. A colourless jelly, having an acid reaction; scarcely soluble in cold water, more so in hot water; and precipitated by acids, alkalies, alcohol, salts, and even sugar. Its compounds with the bases are called pec- TATES. By long boiling with solution of caustic alkali it is converted into metapectic acid, which does not gelatinize. (See 6e^ low.) PEC'TIN. Syn. Vegetable jelly. Ob- tained by adding alcohol to the juice of ripe currants or other fruit, until a gelatinous pre- cipitate forms, which must be drained, washed with a little weak alcohol, and dried. Prop., 8fc. In the moist state it forms a neutral, tasteless, soluble, transparent jelly; when dried, a translucent mass, closely resem- bling isinglass; boiled with water, or with dilute acids, it is converted into parapectin and METAPECTIN; in the presence of alkalies, these, as w^ell as pectin, are changed into PECTic ACID, and, by continuing the ebullition for some time longer, into metapectic acid, which is not gelatinous. See Pectic Acid. PECTORALS. Under this head are popu- larly included all the various remedies em- ployed in breath or chest diseases. PEDIC'ULI. Three species of these para- sites infest the human body :—Pediculus HUMANUS CAPITIS, Or HEAD LOUSE, which liveS and breeds in the hair of the scalp, and does not voluntarily extend its ravages beyond it; —P. H. CORPORIS, or BODY LOUSE, which resides on the trunk of the body and the garments, and is characterised by being white and nearly immaculate; and—P. PUBIS, or CRAB LOUSE (so named frcyn the cheliform structure of its legs), found chiefly on the pubes, but if not checked, gradually extending itself to the armpits, eyebrows, and other parts covered with hair. This is the most malignant species of the three, and frequently burrows so deeply in the skin as to be with difficulty dislodged. The presence of pediculi is, in general, an indication of dirty habits, or of contact with the dirty and lazy. Persons who perform the duties of the toilet with ordinary care, and who change their linen sufficiently often, are utter strangers to the visitations of these insects. The use of the hair-brush, strong scents, oil, soap-and-water, and the like, are incompatible wdth their existence. For the destruction of the p. pubis, a solution of from 15 to 20 gr. each of bichloride of mercury and sal ammoniac, in a pint of distilled or pure soft water, is most cleanly and effective. Weak tobacco water, decoction of stavesacre seeds or ofivhite hellebore, and the ointments oi mercury, sulphur, and white precipitate, are also fye-