OILS (VOLATILE). 982 ESSENTIALE, L. Colourless; thin; heavier than water; stimulant; smells strongly of the drug. Oil of Myr'tle (Volatile). Syn. Essence of M.; Oleum mtrt^ essentiale, L. From the flowers and leaves of Myrtus communis. 100 lb. of the fresh leaves yield 2s to 5 oz. Oil of Namur Grass. See Geass Oil of Namue. Oil of Narcis'sus. Syn. Essence of jon- quil ; Oleum Naecissi, L. As oil of jas- mine. Delightfully odorous. Oil of Nero'lL See Oil of Oeanue- FLOWEES. Oil of Nut'meg (Volatile). Syn. Oleum my- EISTICiE (Ph, E.), O. M. MOSCHAT^ (Ph. D.), L. From the officinal nutmeg or kernel of the fruit of Myristica mcschata. Nearly colour- less ; odour and flavour that of the fruit, hut more powerful. By agitation with water, it is separated into two oils—one lighter, the other heavier, than water; the last is hutyraceous. Sp. gr. *948. Prod. 4| to 7§. It is reputed to make the hair grow, and to prevent bald- ness. Oil of On'ions. From the bulbs of Allium Cepa, or common onion. Contains sulphur, and smells strongly of the herb. Oil of Or'ange. Syn. Essence of o. ; Oleum AUEANTII, O. AUEANTIOEUM, O. A. COETICIS, L. From the yellow portion of the rind of either the Seville or sweet orange, preferably of the last; as oil of beegamot or lemons. Closely resembles oil of lemons, hut is more agreeably fragrant. The expressed oil is very apt to become opaque and deposit a stearop- tene, especially in cold weather, unless well kept from the air. Sp. gr. '875. Prod. 100 fruits yield 4 to 5 oz. (See below.) Oil of Orange-berries. Syn. Oleum au- EANTii BACC-E, L. From the small unripe fruit of the orange-tree. Does not keep well. (See below.) Oil of Orange-flowers. Syn. Neeoli, Oil OF N., Essence of n.; Oleum naphje, O. AUEANTII FLOEUM, AUEANTII OLEUM (Ph. E. & D.), L. From the flowers of either the bitter (Seville) or sweet orange {Citrus vulgaris or C. aurantium), by distillation with water. That from the first is said to be preferred, hut there does not appear any actual diifer- ence between the two. Very fluid; lighter than water, in which it is slightly soluble; it is delightfully aromatic and fragrant, hut the odour diflers slightly from that of the flowers. Prod. 100 lb. of flowers gathered in May or December yield 3 to 6 oz. of oil; 6 cwt. of t\ie fresh flowers yielded 1 lb. of oil. Pur. Neroli is commonly adulterated with alcohol or essence de petit grain, and gene- rally with both of them. The presence of the first is easily determined (see above); that of the second can only be discovered by compar- ing the odour evolved during the evaporation of a drop of the suspected oil, placed on a piece of white paper, with a like drop of pure neroli similarly treated. (See above and below.) Oil of Orange-leaf. Syn. Oleum aueantii FOLii, L.; Essence de petit geain, Fr. From the leaves of either the bitter or sweet orange; that from the first being preferred. Delight- fully fragrant. Extensively used to adulte- rate oil of neroli, and is itself commonly so- phisticated with both alcohol and oil of orange- I berries. (See above.) Oil of Orig'anum. Syn. Oleum oeigani, O. o. ESSENTIALE, L. From the flowering herb of Origanum vulgare, or common or winter marjoram. Pale yellow colour; fragrant; acrid, pungent, and rubefacient. Sp. gr. '927 ('940—Baume). Prod. '5g to '752. The dark- coloured ‘ oil of origanum’ of the shops is ob- tained from Thymus vulgare. The ‘ oil of ori- ganum’ (Ph. E.) is oil of Origanum marjorana. See Oils of Maejoeam, Thyme, and Lemon Thyme. Oil of Or'ris. Syn. Essence of violet; Oleum ieidis, L. From the dried rhizomes of Iris Florentina, or Florentine orris-root. Fragrant. Sold for oil and essence of vio- lets. Oil of Par'sley. Syn. Oleum peteoselini, L. From the fresh herb or dried fruit (seed) or Apiumpetroselinum, or garden parsley. Yel- lowish ; smells strongly of the plant. It con- sists of two oils, separable by agitation with water, one of which is concrete, and melts at 86° Fahr.; the other, liquid. Prod. Herb, '50 to 12 (nearly). Oil of Par'tridge Berry. Syn. Oil of win- TEE-GEEEN, MeTHYLO-SALICYLIC ETHEE, SA- LICYLATE OF OXIDE OF METHYL ; OlEUM GAUL- THEEI.E (Ph. U. S.), L. From the leaves or the whole plant of Gaullheria procumbens, a herb common in North America, and other- wise known by the names—Box-berry, che- quer-berry, partridge-berry, mountain tea, win- ter-green, &c. Pale yellow, growing brown by exposure and age ; aromatic; sweet; highly pungent; when diluted, agreeably fragrant; mixed with a dilute solution of potassa, it solidifies to a crystalline mass (‘ salicylate of methyl and potassa’), from which the oil may be again separated % the addition of an acid. It is the heaviest of all the essential oils. Sp. gr. 1'173. Boils at 412°, and, when purified, at 435° Fahr. Oil of partridge-berry, dissolved in rectified spirit, is in common use in the United States of America as an antispasmodic, carminative, diuretic, emmenagogue, and stimulant; chiefly as an adjunct to mixtures, &c.; and also with the view of increasing the flow of milk during lactation. It is likewise extensively used in perfumery, and is an object of great interest to the organic chemist, on account of its pecu- liar constitution and reaction. Oil of Partridge-berry (Facti"tious). See Salicylic Acid. Pear Oil. See Amyle (Acetate of), and Essence of Jaegonelle Peae.