847 LIQUEUE. I hig, before being submitted to infusion. The substances employed in France to colour li- queurs are, for—blue, soluble Prussian blue, sulphate of indigo (nearly neutralized with chalk), and the juice of blue flowers and ber- ries;—AMBEE, FAWN, and BEANDY COLOUE, burnt sugar or spirit colouring; — GEEEN, spinach or parsley leaves (digested in spirit), and mixtures of blue and yellow ;—eed, pow- dered cochineal or brazil wood, either alone or mixed with a little alum ;—violet, blue vio- let petals, litmus, or extract of logwood ;—pue- PLE, the same as violet, only deeper;—yellow, an aqueous infusion of safflower or French ber- ries, and the tinctures of saffron and tur- meric. A frequent cause of failure in the manufac- ture of liqueurs and cordials is the addition of too much flavouring matter. Persons un- accustomed to the use of strong aromatic es- sences and essential oils seldom sufficiently estimate their power, and, consequently, are very apt to add too much of them, by which the liquor is rendered not only disagreeably high flavoured, but, from the excess of oil pre- sent, also ‘ milky,' or ‘ foul,' either at once, or, what is nearly as bad, on the addition of water. This source of annoyance, arising entirely from bad manipulation, frequently discourages the tyro, and cuts short his career as a manufacturer. From the viscidity of cor- dials, they are less readily ‘flned down’ than unsweetened liquor, and often give much trouble to clumsy and inexperienced operators. The most certain w^ay to prevent disappoint- ment in this respect is to use too little rather than too much flavouring; for if the quantity proves insufficient, it is readily‘brought up' at any time, but the contrary is not effected without some trouble and delay. A careful attention to the previous remarks will render this branch of the rectifler's art far more perfect and easy of performance than it is at present, and will, in most cases, pro- duce at once a satisfactory article, “ fine, sweet, and pleasant.” The COEDIALS of respectable British ‘ com- pounders’ contain fully 3 lb. of white lump sugar per gallon, and are of the strength of 60 to 64 u. p. The baumes, cremes, and huiles, imported from the Continent, are richer both in spirit and sugar than ours; and to this may be referred much of their superiority. Mere sweetened or coedialized spieits {eaux, of the Fr.) contain only from 1 to 1^ lb. of sugar per gallon. The purity of liqueurs is determined in the manner noticed under Beandy, Wine, &c. The following list embraces nearly all the COEDIALS and liqueues, both native and imported, met with in trade in this country :— Absinthe. Syn. Exteait d’absinthe de Suisse ; Swiss exteact of woemwood. Prep. From the tops of Absinthum majus, 4 lb.; tops of Absinthum minus, 2 lb.; angelica root, calamus aromaticus, Chineseaniseed,?iX)Aleaves of dittany of Crete, of each, 15 gr.; brandy or spirit at 12 u. p., 4 gallons; macerate for 10 days, then add water, 1 gall.; distil 4 gall, by a gentle heat, and dissolve in the distilled spirit, of crushed white sugar, 2 lb. Tonic and sto- machic. Alker'mes. This liquor is highly esteemed in some parts of the South of Euroxie. Prep. 1. Bay leaves and mace, of each, 1 lb.; nutmegs and cinnamon, of each, 2 oz.; cloves,\oz.; (all bruised;) cognacbrandy,3|gall.; macerate for 3 weeks, frequently shaking, then distil over 3 gall., and add, of clarified spirit of Jcermes, 18 lb.; orange-flower water, 1 pint; mix well, and bottle. This is the original for- mula for the ‘ALKEEMES DE Santa Maeia Novella,' which is much valued. 2. Spice, as last; British brandy, 4 gall.; water, 1 gall.; macerate as before, and draw over 4 gall., to which add of capillaire, 2 gall., and sweet spirit of nitre, \ pint. Cassia is often used for cinnamon. Inferior to the last. An'iseed Cordial. Prep. 1. From aniseed, 2 oz. (or essential oil, 1^- dr.), and sugar, 3 lb. per gallon. It should not be weaker than about 45 u. p., as at lower strengths it is im- possible to produce a full-flavoured article without its being milky or liable to become so. 2. (Anisette de Boedeaux.)—a. (Foreign.) Aniseed, 4 oz.; coriander and sweet fennel seeds, of each, 1 oz.; (bruised); rectified spirit, ^ gall.; water, 3 quarts; macerate for 5 or 6 days, then draw over 7 pints, and add of lump sugar, 2^ lb. b. (English.) Oil of aniseed, 15 drops; oils of cassia and caraway, of each, 6 drops ; rub them with a little sugar, and then dissolve it va spirit (45 u. p.), 3 quarts, by well shaking them to- gether ; filter, if necessary, and dissolve in the clear liquor sugar, Ij lb. See Peppeemint {below). ^ Balm of Moluc'ca. Prep. From mace, 1 dr.; cloves, i oz.; clean spirit (22 u. p.), 1 gall.; infuse for a week in a w^ell-corked carboy or jar, frequently shaking, colour with burnt sugar, q. s., and to the clear tincture add of lump sugar, 4^ lb., dissolved in pure soft water, \ gall. On the Continent this takes the place of the ‘ cloves’ of the English retailer. Bit'ters. These have generally from 1 to 1-| lb. of sugar per gallon.^ Car'away Cordial. Prep. Generally from the essential oil, with only 2^ lb. of sugar per gall. 1 fl. dr. of the oil is commonly reckoned equal to 5 lb. of the seed. The addition of a very little oil of cassia, and about half as much of essence of lemon or of orange, improves it. See Beandy (Caraway). Ce'drat Cordial. Prep. From essence (oil) of cedrat, \ oz.; pure spirit (at proof), 1 gall.; dissolve, add of water, 3 pints, agitate well; j distil 3 quarts, and add an equal measure of ^ See article Bixtxbs, page 330.