608 EXTRACT. exhibited a remarkably bright and glossy ap- pearance have been uniformly inferior, and sometimes nearly inert; whilst others, with a less prepossessing appearance, have been gene- rally of good quality. These facts are well es- tablished by reference to the extracts of those houses and institutions that are remarkable for the sxiperior quality of their preparations, and by comparing them with the common extracts of the shops supplied by the whole- sale trade. A good extract should be—'1. Free from grit, and wholly soluble in 20 parts of the menstruum employed in its preparation, form- ing a nearly clear solution.—2. It should have a uniform texture and colour, and be of a proper consistence.—3. If a narcotic or active extract, it may be exhibited in proper doses, and its effects watched. Its activity may also be tested on any small animal.—4. An assay for the proximate vegetable principle {alkaloid, &c.) contained in the plant from which it has been prepared may be made. The extracts prepared from the expressed juices of plants, without straining off the coagulated albumen, are, of course, exceptions to the first test. Un- fortunately, these tests are not always easily performed, and the last two are inapplicable j to those extracts that exercise no very marked physiological action, unless when taken in re- peated doses, long continued. This want of a ready means of accurately testing the qualities of extracts has enabled the fraudulent manu- j facturer to sell inferior articles with impunity, ' and often without the least fear or danger of detection. In general, an extract more than six months old contains only half the activity of a similar one newly made. When more than twelve months old they should be rejected as worth- less, and the stock renewed. Uses, 8fc. The extracts of the shops are generally acknowledged to be the most vary- , ing, imperfect, and uncertain class of medi- cines belonging to modern pharmacy. They are mostly used in the same cases as the plants from which they are prepared, but in smaller doses. Concluding Remarks. In the preparation of extracts the great desiderata to be aimed at are—to suit the menstrua and the methods of manipulating to the peculiar characteristics of the active constituents of the vegetable sub- stances operated on. The pharmaceutist should always bear in mind that a perfect extract should be a concentrated, solid mass, repre- senting, as near as possible, in medicinal efficacy, the materials from which it has been prepared, and capable of being redissolved, so as to form a solution closely resembling that from which it has been derived. An extract possessing equal strength to the whole mass of the ingredients from which it has been prepared is almost next to an impossibility, however desirable such a degree of perfection may be. The medicinal properties of all solutions of ve- getable matter are Injured by being re- duced to the solid state; and this deteriora- tion, more or less, takes place, whether the solvent be water, acetic acid, proof spirit, or alcohol. The volatile portions (the essential oils, the aroma, &c.) are nearly or wholly dissi- pated; and though these do not always form the principal or active ingredients of the vege- tables from which extracts are prepared, yet they generally exercise a modifying and con- trolling influence over the other-ingredients, which considerably alters their therapeutical action. The loss of aroma may often be a trifling deficiency, but in the extracts of aconite, henbane, hemlock, belladonna, and other narcotic plants, this is not the case. In these cases it is well known that the inert pre- parations are wholly deficient of the odour of the recent plant, and that in proportion as the odour is developed, so is their activity preserved. The powerful smell of the recently expressed juice of hemlock, with the scarcely perceptible odour of the extract (exteactum conii, Ph. !>.), offers an excellent example of this fact. The dose of the one often reaches 20 or 30 gr., whilst that of the other seldom exceeds 5 or 10 drops, or a portion equivalent in dry ingre- I dients to considerably less than f gr. When extracts are ordered in prescriptions, those of the ‘ Pharmacopoeia^ should be alone employed by the dispenser, as the substitution of others for them would not only be violating j faith with the prescriber, but might also pro- 1 duce consequences alike injurious to the dis- penser and the patient. Many medical gentle- men prefer extracts prepared by particular pro- cesses or persons, but such intention is always indicated in their prescriptions. Extract of Ac'onite. Syn. Exteact of WOLFSBANE, E. OF MONKSHOOD, INSPISSATED JUICE OF ACONITE; ExTEACTUM ACONITI (Ph. L. E. & U. S.), Succus SPISSATUS aco- INITI (Ph. D. 1826), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Take of fresh leaves of aconite, 1 lb.; bruise them in a stone mortar, express the juice, and evaporate it, unstrained, to a proper con- sistence. The formulae of the Ph. D. & U. S. are similar. 2. (Ph. E.) Beat ihQ fresh leaves of aconite to a pulp, and express the juice, then subject the residuum to percolation with rectified spirit j until the latter passes through without being materially coloured; unite the expressed juice and the percolated tincture, filter, distil off the spirit, and evaporate in a vapour or a water bath to a proper consistence. Stronger than the preceding. Obs. A variable and uncertain preparation, j Numbness and tingling follow its application I to the lips or tongue when it is of good quality, j Product. 1 cwt. of fresh leaves yield between 1 5 lb. and 6 lb. of extract. Prop. Anodyne, sudorific, and narcotic ; very poisonous. Dose. i gr. to 2 gr., made into a pill with liquorice powder; once or twice a day, in neuralgic pains, chronic rheumatism, glandular swellings, &c.,