580 ESSENCE. small), 1 lb.; water, ^ pint \ place tliem in a bottle which they will only half fill, and agi- tate them violently for half an hour; then throw the whole on a sieve, and receive the liquid in a.jug ; next boil the undissolved por- tion in water, 1 pint, for 20 minutes; strain, mix the decoction with the cold infusion, eva- porate the liquid to the consistence of a thin syrup, adding spice, salt, &c., to taste, and pour the essence, whilst boiling hot, into bottles, jars, or (still better) tin cans, which must then he at once hermetically corked, sealed, or sol- dered up, and stowed away in a cold place. In this state it will keep a long time. 2. (Ellis.) Take of lean beef (sliced), a sufficient quantity to fill the body of a porter bottle; cork it up loosely, and place it in a pot of cold water, attaching the neck, by means of a string, to the handle of the pot; boil for If to 2 hours, then decant the liquid and skim it. Spices, salt, icine, brandy, &c., may he added as before. Highly nutritious and sus- taining. Essence of Ber'gamot. See Oil (Volatile). Bit'ter Essence. Syn. Essentia amaea, L. Prep. (Ph. Den.) Wormwood, 4 parts; gen- tian root, bitter orange peel, and blessed thistle, of each, 1 part; rectified spirit, 45 parts; digest a week. Tonic and stomachic. Dose. f dr. to 2 dr. Essence of Calum'ha. Syn. Essentia ca- lume.e, L. See Infusion of Calumba. Essence of Cam'phor. Syn. Camph ok deops, LiQUOK of CAltIPnOK, CONCENTEATED ESSENCE OF C., CONCENTEATED SOLUTION OF C., CONC. CAMPiioE JULEP; Essentia campiioe.e, Liquoe c., L. c. concentkatus, L. Prep. 1. Camphor (clean), 44 oz. ; rectified spirit, 1 gall.; dissolve. This forms the ‘ essence of CAMPIIOE’ and ‘ LIQUOE camphoe.e’ of the wholesale houses. About f fi. dr., added to 7f fi. dr. of cold distilled water, forms (by agi- tation) a transparent aqueous solution of cam- ])hor, fully equal in strength to the filtered MiSTUEA campiioe.e’ (camplior julep) of the Ph. L. The above made with weaker sjnrit forms the ‘ spirit of wine and camphoP of the shops. 2. Camphor, 1 oz.; rectified spirit, 10 oz. (by weight); dissolve. This forms the ' CON- centeated essence of camphoe’ of the wholesale druggists. 10 or 12 drops, added to \fi. oz. of pure cold xcater, make a transpa- rent camphor julep, as before. There is a large quantity of these solutions of camphor sold by the London houses, who charge a considerable jirice for them. Tliey are very convenient for preparing extemporaneous camphor julep or camphor mixture in dispensing. 3. (Fordred.) Tincture of camphor, 13 fl. dr.; tincture of myrrh, f fl. dr.; rectified spirit, 18f fl. dr.; mix. 1 fl. dr., added to 4 fl. oz. of water, forms camphor julep. It has been pro- posed to bleach the tincture of myrrh with animal charcoal, but this interferes with its proper action. 4. (Homoeopathic;.) See Choleea eemedies. Nos. 6 & 7, page 443. 5. (Houlton.) Spirit of camphor (Ph. L.), 1 fl. oz.; proof spirit, 7 fl. oz. 1 fl. dr., to 3 fl. oz. of water, forms ‘ camphoe julep.’ 6. (Redwood.) Camphor, 1 dr.; rectified spirit, oz.; dissolve, and add of water, i oz. 7. (Swediaur.) Powdered camphor, 1 dr.; water saturated with carbonic acid gas, 12 fl. oz.; dissolve. 1 part of this solution, added to 4 parts of water, forms ‘ camphoe mixtuee.’ See Camphoe. Essence of Cap'sieum. See Essence of Cayenne. Essence of Car'away. Syn. Essentia caeui, L. Prep. From oil of caraway, as essence of ALMONDS. Its applications and uses are similar. An inferior kind is prepared by macerating the seeds in proof spirit. Essence of Car'damoms. Syn. Essentia CAEDAMOMI, E. C. CONCENTEATA, L. Prep. From lesser cardamom seeds (ground in a pepper mill), 5| lb.; rectified spirit of wine, 1 gall.; digest for a fortnight, press, and filter. Obs. This preparation is very convenient for flavouring cordials, pastry, &c., and is very powerful. In the laboratory, it is frequently substituted for powdered cardamoms in making compound extract of colocynth, and has the ad- vantage of adding no inert matter to the preparation, whilst it imparts the characteristic odour of the seeds in a remarkable degree. When used in this way, it is not added to the extract until it is nearly cold and about to be taken from the pan. The testae or shells of the seed should be separated from the kernels, as the former are quite inert, and if used occa- sion a loss of spirit for no purpose. Essence of Cascaril'la. Syn. Essentia cas- CAEiLLiE, L. Prep. 1. Cascarilla (bruised), 12 oz.; proof spirit, 1 pint; proceed either by digestion or percolation. The product is 8 times the strength of the infusion of cascarilla (Ph. L.). 2. See Infusion (Concentrated). Essence of Cas'sia. Syn. Essentia cassi.e, L. Prep. From oil of cassia, as essence of allspice or almonds. Essence of Cayenne'. Syn. Essence of CAYENNE PEPPEE, E. OF CAPSICUM, CON- CENTEATED E. OF c.; Essentia capsici, Tinctuea capsici concenteata, L. Prep. 1. Capsicum (recent dried pods, bruised), 3 lb.; rectified spirit, 1 gall.; digest 14 days, press, and filter. Some persons prepare it by the method of displacement. 2. Capsicum, \ lb.; j)roof sjnrit, 1 pint; digest, as before. Weaker than No. 1. 3. (Kitchener’s.) Cayenne pepper, 1 oz.; brandy, 1 pint; digest, &c., as before. Obs. The product of the first formula is a transparent, dark-coloured liquid, having an intensely burning taste. One drop is sufficient to deprive a person of the power of speech for several seconds; and a few drops will impart