RIPENING—ROCKETS. 1174 scalp. The last, although not a severe, is often a very obstinate disease, and can only be cured by the long-continued application to the part of some stimulant pommade, liniment, or wash, with the frequent use of the razor and warm soap-and-water. RI"PEKING. See Beewing, Malt Li- QTJOES, Wines, &c. ROACH. The Leuciscm rutilis, a well- known fresh-water fish. It is found in most of the rivers and streams of England, and its flesh is regarded as “ particularly light, sound, and wholesome.’^ ROAST'ING. Alexis Soyer recommends, “as an invariable rule,’^ that “ all dark meats, such as beef and mutton, should be put down to a shar^ fire, for at least fifteen minutes, until the outside has acquired a coating of osmazome, or condensed gravy, and then removed back, and allowed to cook gently. Lamb, veal, and pot'k, if young and tender, should be done at a moderate fire. Veal should even be covered with paper.’^ “Very rich meat, if covered with paper, does not require basting. Fowls, &c., should he placed close to the fire, to set the skin, and in about ten minutes rubbed over with a small piece of butter, pressed in a spoon. Meats, whilst roasting, should be dredged withj^owr, just at the time when the gravy begins to appear; the flour absorbs it, and forms a coat- ing which prevents any more coming out. Hares and small game should be treated in the same manner. Under ordinary circumstances as to the fire, and the distance betw^een it and the joint, beef, mutton, and veal, take about i hour per lb. in roasting. Lamb, poultry, and smalt game, require only 12 to 14 minutes per lb.; whilst veal takes fully 15 minutes, and pork takes from i hour to 20 minutes, as they must alw'ays be well done. The flesh of old animals re- quires more cooking than the flesh of young ones ; and inferior, tough, and bony parts, than the prime joints and pieces. Roasting is not an economical method of cooking pieces of meat abounding in bone or tendinous matter, since the nutritious portion of these is either destroyed or rendered inso- luble by the heat employed. Thus, the raw bones from a joint are capable of afibrding a rich and excellent basin of soup, highly nutri- tious ; whilst the bones from a corresponding joint which has been roasted are nearly worth- less when so treated. The same applies with even greater force to the gristly and tendin- ous portions. A dry heat either destroys them or converts them into a horny substance, unfit for food; whilst by boiling they are trans- formed into a highly succulent and nutritious article of food, besides afibrding excellent soup or jelly. Hence the policy of ‘ boning' meat before roasting or baking it; or, at all events, of removing the bony portion which would be most exposed to the action of the fire. See i Bone and Jelly. ROB. Syn. Roob. A term, derived from the Arabic, formerly applied to the inspissated juice of ripe fruit, mixed with honey or sugat to the consistence of a conserve or thin ex-i tract. Rob of elder-berries (eldee eob EOOB SAMBUCi), juniper berries (jenipee eob EOOB JENiPEEi), mulberries (melbeeet bob EOOB diamoeem), and walnuts (walnet eob EOOB dtacaeyon), with a few others, are stil found in some of the foreign Pharmacopoeias. ROCCEL'LININ. A substance obtained along with oesellinic acid, when betaorsellic acid is boiled with water. It forms hair-lik<: crystals, of a silvery lustre. ROCK. The popular name of a sweetinea formed of sugar boiled to a candy, and thei poured upon an oiled slab, and allowed to coo‘ in the lump. It is variously flavoured. ROCK CRYS'TAL. Native crystallized silicf See Qeaetz. ROCK OIL. See Peteoleem. ROCK SOAP. A native silicate of alumina used for crayons, and for washing cloth. ROCK'ETS. (In pyrotechny.) Prep. Th CASES.—These are made of stout cartridge paper, rolled on a mould and pasted, and the throttled a little below the mouth, like tb neck of a phial. The diameter should be ej actly equal to that of a leaden ball of th same weight, and the length should be equal t times the internal diameter. They ar filled with the following mixtures, tightl driven in ; and when intended for flight (SKI EOCKETs), they are * garnished,* and affixed! willow rods to direct their course. The COMPOSITION.—1. (Marsh)—a. For 2-o. rockets. From nitre, 54| parts; sulphur, 1 parts; charcoal, 27i parts; all in finepowde and passed through lawn. b. For 4-osr. do. From nitre, 64 part? sulphur, parts; charcoal, 20 parts; as tl last. c. For \-.lb. to 1-lb. do. From nitre, 6S parts; sulphur, 15f parts; charcoal, 21 parts. 2. (Ruggieri.)—a. For rockets of |-in( diameter. From nitre, 16 parts; charcoi 7 parts; sulphur, 4 parts. b. For I to l\-inch rockets, use 1 part mo of nitre. c. For l-\-ineh rockets, use 2 parts more nitre. d. By using 1 part less of charcoal ai adding respectively 3, 4, and 5 parts of fi steel filings, the above are converted in * Beilliant fiees.^ e. By the substitution of coarse cast-ir borings for filings, and a further omission of parts of charcoal from each, the latter a| converted into ‘ Chinese fiee.' I Hand-eockets and geoend-eockets a' usually loaded with nothing but very fi meal gunpowder and iron or zinc filings borings. ij After sky-eockets and watee-eocke" are charged, a piece of clay is driven in, throuj