483 COPPER. ebullition deposits tbe suboxide, which must then be collected, washed, and dried. I 3. A saturated solution of sugar of milk, con- I tainin^ some carbonate of soda, is poured over recently prepared, moist, hydrated oxide of cop- I per, and heated to boiling ; and the precipitate j washed and dried as before. 4. A solution of cane sugar, 27 parts, in water, 60 parts, is poured over hydrated oxide of copper (weighed in the compressed and still moist state), 9 parts; a solution of caustic potassa, 18 parts, in water, 60 parts, is then I added, and the whole mass well agitated together at the ordinary temperature, and strained through linen. If the dark-blue fil- trate is next heated (continually stirring), over I a water bath, anhydrous suboxide of copper is disengaged, and the liquor becomes colourless. I (Boettger’s ‘ Beitrage.^) j 5. From subchloride of copper fused at a low ! red heat with an equal weight of carbonate of ' soda, and the residuum of the calcination washed and dried. 6. Sulphate of copper, 100 parts; carbonate of soda, 57 parts (both in crystals) ; fuse them together at a gentle heat j cool, pulverize the i mass, and add of fine copper filings, 25 parts; ram the mixture into a crucible, cover it over, and expose it for 20 minutes to a white heat. Prop., Uses, ^c. A superb red powder, with a metallic lustre. It often occurs in beautiful transparent, ruby-red crystals, associated with other ores of copper, and can be obtained in I this state by artificial means. It is used as a 1 pigment and a bronze, and as a stain for glass j and enamels, to which it gives a rich red j colour. By heat it is converted into the black I oxide. With ammonia it forms a colourless solu- tion, which rapidly becomes blue from the ac- ! tion of the air. See Ammoniueet of Coppee. 2. Protoxide of Copper. Syn. Ox'ide of I coppee. Black oxide of c. ; Cu'pei peo- t tox'ydum; C. ox'ydum ni'geum, L. Prep. \ 1. By heating the nitrate or carbonate of i copper to redness. When it ceases to lose weight the conversion is completed, and the oxide appears as a heavy, black powder. 2. By heating in the air the hydrated oxide thrown down from solutions of copper by pure potassa. 3. By calcining copper filings at a red heat, with free exposure to the air, until oxidation is complete. This is a troublesome and tedious I process unless a reverberatory furnace is at ! hand. 4. By adding caustic potassa, in excess, to a solution of a salt of protoxide of copper, and heating the whole to a boiling point; the pre- cipitate is then collected, washed and dried. A heavy, dark-brown powder. Uses, S^c. Protoxide of copper is unchanged by heat, unless combustible matter is present, when it readily parts with its oxygen; hence its general use in oeganic analysis as a source of that element. It communicates a beautiful green colour to glass and enamels. With the acids it produces the ordinary salts of copper. 3. Peroxide of Copper. Syn. Binox'ide of COPPEE; Cu'PEi peeox'ydum, L. Formed by the action of peroxide of hydrogen water on the hydrated black oxide. . (Thenard.) It is very liable to spontaneous decomposition, and its precise character is undetermined. Sul'phate of Copper. Blue cop'peeas, B. vit'eiol, B. stone, Roman v. ; Cu'pei sul'- PHAS (Ph. L. E. & D.), Cu'PEUM viteiola'- TUM, ViTEIO'lUM C^EU'LEUM, L. ; SULFATB DE cuiVEE,Fr.; Kupfee viteiol, Ger.; Neela TOOTIA, Hind. Prep. 1. (Commercial.) The sulphate of copper of commerce is obtained by the oxidation of native sulphuret of copper (coppee pyeites) ; by the joint action of air, heat, and moisture, the copper is converted into an oxide, and the sulphur into sulphuric acid. The resulting salt is washed out, and the solu- tion evaporated and crystallized. The water found in and issuing from copper mines often furnishes such a solution ready to the hands of the manufacturers. A large quantity of sul- phate of copper is also obtained as a secondary product in the refining of silver, and is “ occa- sionally prepared by dissolving in sulphuric acid an oxychloride of copper, made for the pur- pose, by exposing sheets of copper to the joint action of air and hydrochloric acid.” (Brande.) 2. (Pure.) By the direct solution of the metal, or preferably, of its oxide or carbonate, in sulphuric acid. 3. (Ph. L.) Commercial sulphate of copper (cu'pei sul'phas vena'lis), 41b., is to be dis- solved in boiling water, 2 quarts; (heat and stirring being had recourse to); the solution is to be filtered whilst hot, and set aside that crystals may form, which are to be collected and dried. By evaporating the mother liquor, a second crop of crystals may be obtained. Pur. The commercial sulphate is often largely contaminated with iron. When pure, it is totally soluble in water; whatever am- monia throws down from this solution, excess of ammonia again dissolves.” (Ph. L.) Prop., Uses, 6fc. Fine blue crystals, slightly efflorescent, having an intensely styptic and metallic taste. By heat the blue salt loses its water of crystallization, and becomes a white powder (sympathetic powdee ; pulvis sym- PATHETicus). It dissolves in 4 parts of water at 60° Fahr., and in 2 parts at 212°; is in- soluble in alcohol and ether; and is decom- posed at an intense heat into protoxide of copper, sulphurous acid, and oxygen. It has been used to prevent the dry rot in timber,, and in dyeing. It is largely employed as a source of metallic copper in the electeotype. Grain is steeped in a weak solution of it by the farmer, to prevent the ‘ smut.* As a medicine, it is employed chiefly as a styptic (in solution) and caustic (in substance) to destroy * proud flesh;’ and, less frequently, as an astringent or tonic (from ^ gr. to 2 gr.).