1049 PEPPER. Ibronchitis, hooping-cough, hysteria, suppres- iions, &c. Water, essence, oil, and spirit OE PENNYROYAL, are officinal. They are now chiefly used as mere adjuncts or vehicles. PEP'PER (Black). Syn. Pepper ; Piperis NiGRi BACC^, Piper nigrum (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “The immature fruit (berry) of Piper nigmm, Linn., or the black pepper vineP Th. L.) 1 Pur. The ground black pepper of the shops is universally adulterated. In fact, the public taste and judgment are so vitiated, that the pure spice is unsaleable. A most respect- lible London firm, on commencing business, jsupplied their customers with unadulterated l^round pepper, but in 3 cases out of every 4 lit was returned on their hands and objected fto, on account of its dark colour and rich pun- gency, which had induced the belief that it Svas sophisticated. The house alluded to was therefore compelled by the customers to supply them with an inferior, but milder and paler, mticle. The substances employed to lower black pepper are known in the trade as— P. T).,’ ‘H. P. D.,^ and ‘W. P. D.^—abbre- riations of pepper dust, hot p. d., white p. d. The first is composed of the faded leaves of lutumn, dried and powdered; the second, the /round husks (hulls) of black mustard, obtained Tom the mustard mills; and the third is com- •non rice, finely powdered. Equal parts of )lack peppercorns, H. P. D., and W. P. D., brm the very best ground pepper sold. The \irdinary pepper of the shops does not contain nore than ^th to ^th of genuine pepper, or 2 to 2^ oz. in the lb. Very recently, ground oil- ’lake or linseed meal has been chiefiy em- ployed as the adulterant, instead of the old P. D.’ Uses, <^c. Black pepper is a powerful stimu- lant, carminative, and rubefacient. Its use, |in moderation, as a condiment, is peculiarly jerviceable to persons who are of a cold habit. Dr who suffer from a weak digestion; but in nflammatory habits, and in affections of the nucous membranes, it is generally highly in- iurious. As a medicine, it is often serviceable in nausea, vomiting, chronic diarrhcea, and igues. In North America, a common remedy hr the last is ^ oz. of ground pepiper stirred jpwith a glassful of warm beer; or a like quantity made into a tincture by steeping it n 5 or 6 times its weight of gin, rum, or whisky, for a few days. Prepared black pepper is made by steep- ng the berries for 3 days in 3 times their veight of vinegar, and then drying and grind- Img them. It is milder than common pepper. See Confections, Piperine, &c. Cayenne' Pepper. Syn. Bird pepper, Chili p., Guinea p., Indian p.. Red p.; Piper :apsici, P. cayenne, L. This is prepared Trom chillies or, the pods of Capsicum frutes- lens, or from Capsicum baccatum, or bird '/epper, but generally from the first, on account Df its greater pungency and acrimony; and. occasionally, from Capsicum, annuum or medi- cinal capsicum. Prep. 1. From the dried pods (powdered), 1 lb. ; and wheaten bread or captain’s biscuits (heated until they are perfectly dry and brittle, and begin to acquire a yellow colour throughout, and then powdered), 7 lb.; mixed and ground together. Colouring matter and common salt are frequently added, but are un- necessary. 2. As the last, but making the mixture into a dough with water, then forming it into small cakes, drying these as rapidly as possible at a gentle heat, and then grinding them. 3. (Loudon.) The ripe pods, dried in the sun, are stratified with wheaten flour in a dish or tray, and exposed in a stove-room or a half- cold oven until they are quite dry ; they are then removed from the flour, and ground to fine powder; to every oz. of this powder, 1 lb. (say 15 oz.') of wheaten flour (including that already used) are added, and the mixture is made into a dough with a little tepid water and a teaspoonful of yeast; after fermenta- tion is well set up, the dough is cut into small pieces, and baked in a slow oven until it is perfectly hard and brittle ; it is then beaten or ground to powder, and forms ‘ cayenne pepper.’ Pure cayenne pepper, when burnt, leaves a scarcely perceptible quantity of v/hite ash; a red-coloured ash indicates the presence of red ochre, brick-dust, Armenian bole, or other earthy colouring matter. If red lead is pre- sent, it will be left behind under the form of a dark-coloured powder, or a small metallic globule. Pur. The ‘ cayenne pepper’ of the shops is often a spurious article, made by grinding a mixture of any of the reddish woods or saw- dust, with enough red pods or chillies to ren- der the mixture sufficiently acrid and pungent. Common salt, colcothar, red bole, brick-dust, vermilion, and even red lead, are also common additions. Uses, Sfc. The capsicums resemble the pep- pers, except in their greater energy and their pungency being unmodified, by the presence of essential oil. As a condiment, under the form of cayenne pepper, and in all diseases in which the employment of a pow'erful sti- mulant or rubefacient is indicated, their uses are well known. In medicine, the fruit of Capsicum annuum (Linn.—Ph. E. & D.; C. fastigiatum, Blume—Ph. L.), or annual capsu cum is ordered (Capsicum—Ph. L. E. & D.). The London College directs the fruit to be that of ‘ Guinea,’ “ less than one inch long, oblong, cylindrical, and straight.*’ See Essence OF Cayenne. Prepared cayenne pepper is the residuum of cayenne—vinegar, essence, or tincture, dried and ground (sec beloiv). Cayenne Pepper (Soluble). Syn. Crystal- lized soluble cayenne. Prep. 1. Capsi-