ALAMODE—ALBUM EX. I Proc.f 8fc. Moulds of smlpMir are placed either vertically or obliquely in an open tub or I cistern, having a freely perforated bottom. Surmounting the whole are two or more pieces of wood in the form of a cross or star. The sulphurous calcareous water, falling on this lj cross, is scattered into spray or streamlets, and (losing the gaseous portion which holds the lime in solution, deposits it in the form of oeiental ALABASTER on the Surface of the moulds. In I from 1 to 4 months, according to the nature of 1 the article, a sufficiently thick deposit is ob- 1 tained. The object is then removed from the j mould, and trimmed and polished. It is found that the more vertical the position of the I mould, the finer is the grain of the resulting ; deposit. The water of the Spring of San Fi- lippo may be exactly and easily imitated by the chemist; and the whole process offers a new and valuable ornamental art for the amusement and profit of the ingenious and en- terprising. ALAMODE' (M-ah-mode'.) [Fr., a la mode.'] According to the prevailing mode or fashion. In cookery, applied to several dishes, but more particularly to one of beef (alamode beef), commonly shortened by the lower class of Londoners into “ alamode.” See Beef, Stews, &c. AL'ANINE. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Alani'na, L. A peculiar substance, possessing feeble basic properties, first obtained by Strecker from aldehyde. Prep. An aqueous solution of aldehyd-am- monia is treated with hydrocyanic and hydro- chloric acid; a mixture of alcohol and ether is then added, and the precipitate ( ‘ chloride of ammonium^) removed by filtration; the filtrate is next agitated with protoxide of lead, and subsequently separated from the lead by pass- ing a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen through it. The decanted liquid yields feathery crys- tals of ALANINE on evaporation. Prop., 8fc. Crystals, rhombic prisms of a pearl-like lustre; freely soluble in cold water j scarcely so in alcohol; insoluble in ether; so- lution, neutral, and sweet-tasted. Under the infiuence of nitrous acid it is converted into lactic acid. It is isomeric with lactamide, urethrane, and sarcosine; but differs from them in its physical and chemical qualities. Ni- trate of" ALANINE (the Only salt of it yet ob- tained) is crystallisable. ALAN'TINE. [Eng., Fr., Ger.] Syn. Alanti'na, L. A substance identical with inulin, found in the roots of garden angelica (' angelica archangelica,’ Linn.). ALBA'TA. [L., Eng.] A name given to several alloys resembling silver. See Alloys, German Silver, &c. ALBU'MEN. [Eng., L.] Syn. Albumine, Fr.; Eiweiss, Eiweistoff, Ger. Literally, the white of egg; a peculiar nitrogenous sub- stance which enters largely into the compo- sition of animal bodies. It abounds in the blood, muscles, bones, coagulable lymph. vitreous and crystalline humour of the eye, fluid of dropsy, &c. The white of egg consists of nearly pure albumen dissolved in water. Although one of the most iinportant and characteristic principles of animal bodies, albumen is not peculiar to the kingdom of nature to which they belong. A substance identical with it is found in many vegetables. It enters largely into the composition of all the emulsive seeds. According to Seguin, it exists in considerable quantity in all those vegetables and fruits that afford a vinous liquor without the addition of yeast; and he hence infers that albumen is the true prin- ciple of fermentation, and that the energy of its action is in direct proportion to its solubility. Prep. The white of egg and the serum of Mood, when strained through muslin, furnish albumen, in solution, in a sufficiently pure state for all the ordinary purposes of the arts. Pure SOLID ALBUMEN may be prepared as follows:— 1. Agitate strained white of egg with 10 or 12 times its bulk of alcohol, collect the preci- pitated flocculi on a muslin filter, and suffer it to dry at a temperature not exceeding 120° Fahr. 2, Add a little water to %vhite of egg, mix, filter, exactly neutralise with acetic acid, and then largely dilute with pure cold water; the precipitate which falls may be collected on a filter and washed. Strained serum of blood may be used instead of white of egg, in both the above forms. Comp., ^c. The most recent and reliable researches on this subject are those of Liebig and Mulder:— Carbon Liebig. . 53-5 Hydrogen . 7-0 Nitrogen Oxygen . 22*0 Sulphur (unoxidised) . . . 1-6 Phosphorus ( „ ) . . . 0-4 100- Albumen Mulder. r of eggs-\0 U,, O,, N^) -f SP. [ of blood—10 (C40 H31 O12 N5) -f S.P. Subsequent researches in the laboratory at Giessen have shown, that the quantity of sul- phur in albumen and its derivatives has been underrated even by Mulder. (Kuling, Walther, and Verdeil.) Until a comparatively recent date, it was not even recognised as one of the essential constituents; as will be perceived by reference to the published analyses of Gay- Lussac, Thenard, Prout, Brande, Ure, and others. Chatin found iodine in the white of egg, and we have also detected chloride of so- dium, sulphate, phosphate, and carbonate of soda, phosphate of lime, and traces of potassa in it; but, unlike the phosphorus and sulphur, none of these substances form a constituent