PHOCENIC ACID—PHOSPHORIC ACID. 1055 I [ Phloridzin bears a great likeness to salicin. j t is said to be a powerful febrifuge. Dose. 3 io 15 gr. I PHOCE'NIC ACID. See Delphinic Acid. . PHCENIC'INE. See Indigo Pueple. [ PHO'RONE. A peculiar volatile oil obtained ly the distillation of camphorate of lime. It I odorous and freely soluble in rectified spirit; (iihydrous pliospboric acid robs it of a portion If its combined water, and converts it into nmol. I PHOS'GENE GAS. See Chloeocaebonic i.CID. i PHOS'PHATE. Syn. Phosphas, L. A salt f phosphoric acid. See Phosphoeic Acid id the respective bases. PHOSPHIDE. See Phosphtjeet. PHOSPHITE. Syn. Phosphas, L. See HOSPHOEOI7S Acid. PHOSPHORIC ACID. Syn. Acidum Phos- UOEICHM, L. This compound abounds in ich of the three kingdoms of nature. In )inbination with lime, it forms the earthy )rtion of the bones of animals. Prep. 1. (Anhydrous; Phosphoeic an- TDEIDE, PO5.) By the vivid combustion of \osphorus in a stream of dry atmospheric air, • under a bell-jar, copiously supplied with 'y air. The product is pure anhydrous phos- loric acid under the form of snow-like flakes. . must be immediately collected and put into 1 warm, dry, well-stoppered bottle. In this ate it exhibits an intense attraction for water, id when thrown into it combines with it ith explosive violence; exposed to moist air |r only a few seconds, it deliquesces to a !;rupy-looking liquid. I 2. (Trishydrated; Teibasic phosphoeic DID, Oethophosphoeic a., 3HO, PO5.)— Ordinary nitric acid is heated in a tubu- ted retort connected with a receiver, and nail fragments of phosphorus are dropped into , singly and at intervals; as soon as the cygenation of the phosphorus is- complete, le heat is increased, the undecomposed acid stilled off, and the residuum evaporated to 16 consistence of a syrup. In this state it rms the phosphoric acid of the shops. b. By acting with boiling water upon the ihydrous acid (1), or upon either the dis- fdratedor monohydraled acid (3 and 4). c. Commercial phosphate of soda is dissolved water, and the solution precipitated with lother of acetate of lead ; an abundant white •ecipitate (phosphate op lead) falls; this collected on a filter, well washed, and, whilst ill moist, is suspended in distilled water, and Iphuretled hydrogen gas passed into it, in cess; a black insoluble precipitate forms, Idle pure teibasic phosphoeic acid re- ains in solution, and is easily deprived of the sidual sulphuretted hydrogen by a gentle ■at. By concentration in vacuo over sul- luric acid, it may be obtained in thin crys- lline plates. Obs, The solution of this acid may be boiled without change, but when concentrated and heated alone to about 400° Fahr., it is converted into a mixture of dishydeated (3) and monohydeated phosphoeic acid (4). At a red heat it is wholly converted into MONOHYDEATED (gUicial or monobasic) phos- phoeic ACID, which at a still higher tem- perature sublimes. Its salts are the teibasic or COMMON PHOSPHATES (OETHOPHOSPHATES —Odling). Their solutions give a yellow pre- cipitate with nitrate of silver. 3. (Dishydrated; Bibasic phosphoeic ACID, Pyeophosphoeic a., 2HO, PO5.)—a. By melting the trishydrated acid (2), and con- tinuing the heat until the temperature is raised to 415° Fahr. b. By strongly heating common or tribasic phosphate of soda. The water of crystalliza- tion only is at first expelled, and the salt be- comes anhydrous; but as the temperature reaches that of redness, an atom of the basic water of the acid is also driven off. By so- lution of the altered salt in water, crystals of BIBASIC PHOSPHATE OF SODA may be obtained. A solution of this last compound, treated with nitrate of lead, and the resulting precipitate (bibasic phosphate of lead), suspended in cold water, and decomposed by sulphtiretted hydrogen, yields a solution of pure bibasic PHOSPHOEIC ACID. Obs. Heat resolves this into a solution of the ordinary or teibasic acid. Bibasic phos- phoric acid precipitates the salts of silver of a white colour. The salts of this acid are called pyeophosphates or bibasic phosphates. 4. (Monobydrated; Monobasic phosphoeic ACID, Metaphosphoeic a., Glacial p. a., HO, PO5)—a. (Impure.) Bones (calcined to whiteness and powdered), 3 parts, are digested for several days in oil of vitriol, 2 parts, pre- viously diluted with ivater, 6 parts, the mix- ture being frequently stirred during the time; a large quantity of water is next added, the whole thrown in a strainer, and the residual matter washed with some hot water; the mixed liquids are then precipitated with a solution of carbonate of ammonia, in slight excess, filtered from the insoluble lime-salts, evaporated to dryness, and finally ignited in a platinum crucible. b. By acting upon the anhydrous acid (1) with cold water. c. By heating either the trishydrated (2) or the dishydrated acid (3) to redness. d. When tribasic phosphoric acid is added to a strong solution of tribasic phosphate of soda, and the mixture, after concentration, is exposed to a low temperature, prismatic crystals are deposited. These, after being strongly heated to expel their basic water, are pure monobasic phosphate of soda. From the solution of this salt in cold water, a solution of pure hydrated monobasic phosphoric acid may be obtained, as above, by means of nitrate or acetate of lead and sulphuretted hydrogen. Obs. This acid precipitates the salts of