224 ARSENIOUS ACID. distilled water, when after being once more filtered, it is generally sufficiently limpid for the perfect application of tests. ^ b. (Danger and Flandin.) The ‘organic matter ’ or ‘ concentrated solution ^ is placed in 2L porcelain-capsule, and l-6th of its weight of the pure concentrated sulphuric acid being added, the mixture is exposed to a gentle and gradually increased heat, with constant stirring with a glass-rod until vapours of sul- phuric acid begin to appear ; the heat is then continued until the charcoal thus formed becomes friable and almost dry, when it is cooled a little, and a small quantity of con- centrated nitric acid added by means of a pipette. The evaporation is now continued to dryness, and the residuum is boiled with distilled water. The solution, after filtration, is ready for testing. c. (Devergie.) The ‘organic matter’ is first treated with potassa (and water), and then with nitrate of lime ; after which the arsenious acid is again taken up by hydrochloric acid. d. (Fownes.) The ‘suspected fluid’ con- taining organic matter is boiled with pure dilute sulphuric acid, until perfectly limpid, when, after filtration, it is ready for testing. If there is much gelatine present, it is often conveniently got rid of by precipitating it with infusion of galls. e. (Jacquelain.) The ‘organic matter’ is destroyed by passing a stream of gaseous chlo- rine through the liquid ; the ‘ excess of chlo- rine’ being afterwards driven off by heat. This plan removes both colour and organic matter from the solution. /. (Orfila.) The ‘suspected matter’ (reduced to nearly the dry state) is mixed with twice its weight of pure powdered nitre, and cau- tiously dried in a porcelain capsule at a gentle heat, constantly stirring; after which it is powdered and deflagrated by throwing it, in small portions at a time, into an earthen cru- cible heated to dull redness. After a short interval the crucible is allowed to cool, and the ‘ grayish-white mass ’ thoroughly washed with distilled water ; the resulting solution is evaporated to the consistence of a syrup, and concentrated sulphuric acid added gradually, until it ceases to produce effervescence, when it is boiled until fumes of nitric or nitrous acid are no longer evolved. The ‘saline re- siduum,’ taken up by distilled water, furnishes a perfectly limpid and colourless solution fit for the application of even the ‘ colorific tests.’ 1 It has been recently shown that when a‘poisonous mass of wliite of eg" and potatoes’ is hoiled with a lye of potassa, and afterwards acidulated with hydroeldoric acid, no precipitate is produced by sulphuretted hydi’ogen. This results from the action of ‘potassa on proteine bodies forming a sulphuret of potassium, the sulphur of which being liberated by the acid afterwards added, tlii’ows dovvn the arsenic, which is then removed by filtration. (Otto.) This statement deserves the most serious attention. The objection may be met by omitting the ‘ first boihng’ with potassa or ammonia; or by the addition, prior to refiltra- tion, of suliieient sesquicarbonale of cunmonia or bicarbo- nate ojjwlassa to redissolve the precipitated tersulphuret. The only precaution necessary, is to expel' the whole of the nitric and nitrous acids, as before indicated; as otherwise an explosion would inevitably occur on testing the mixture in a ‘ Marsh’s apparatus.’ If the solution be too acid, it is directed to be partly neutralised by potassa dissolved in alcohol. g. (Eensch.) Solids (as the stomach, liver, &c.) are cut into small fragments, and boiled in a glass vessel with water acidulated with about 1-lOth of its volume of hydrochloric acid, until the ‘ tissues ’ or ‘ fragments ’ are entirely broken down into flakes or grains, when the whole, after filtration through a hair-sieve or coarse calico, is again heated to the boiling point, and tested as described under Rensch’s test (see ante). Liquids do not require this preparation. h. Many organic liquids (as vomited matter, Sfc.) lose much of their glutinosity and colour by simple dilution with water, boiling, and straining. The albumen is thus coagulated by the heat, and removed in the solid form by filtration. By evaporating the filtered liquor to ^th its bulk, re-diluting with water, and again boiling, the effect is more marked. The addition of a little absolute alcohol to the cold and somewhat concentrated solution, will now generally complete the separation; but some colour will still be left. i. By agitating the ‘liquid’ for at least half an hour with a little perfectly pure pre- pared animal-charcoal which has been recently . exposed to a dull red-heat, and afterwards ex- posing the charcoal, previously dried by a gentle heat, to the ‘reduction-test.’ We have obtained good results in this way ; but it does not answer when much saline matter is present (as with the contents of the stomach which often contain ‘ common salt’), as the quantity of charcoal then required becomes too large to be afterwards conveniently tested. k. When the quantity of foreign matter present is very small, the liquid may be evapo- rated to dryness by a gentle heat, and the residuum at once submitted to the reduction- test. For various hints and cautions, and further information on the detection of All- SENIC, see Gen. Commentary (infra). Estim. This may be effected in various ways:— l. Geayimeteically ;—Arsenic is usually| WEIGHED under the form of arsenate of lead^ arsenate of sesquioxide of iron, tersulphuret of arsenic, (metallic) arsenic, or (directly) as arse- nious acid. The last three only, as the morfij simple and convenient, will be noticed here:—| a. As Tersulphuret:—The whole of the'l arsenic being precipitated by a stream of sul- phuretted hydrogen, with the necessary pre- cautions, in the manner already noticed, the ‘precipitate’ after being carefully collected washed, and dried, is j)urified by redissolving it in pure ammonia water, and evaporating the resulting solution in a weighed watch-glass oi