Beomate of potas'sa may be made by poured in. Red vapours immediately arise, i 368 BRISKNESS—BROMINE. used, are afterwards added, and well worked in.— Used as an addition to soup, and as a casing for lobsters, patties, eggs, &c. BRISK'NESS. The natural briskness and sparkling of fermented liquors depends on the gradual evolution of carbonic acid gas within the body of the fluid, by the process of fer- mentation. See Malt Liquoes, Poetee, Wines, &c. BRISTLES (bris'lz). The stiff hair of swine, &c. They are commonly stiffened by immersion for a short time in almn-icater; and are dyed by steeping them for a short time in any of the common dyes used for cotton or wool. BRITAN'NIA MET'AL (-y’a). Syn. Tu- TAENIA. A superior species of pewter, used for teapots, spoons, &c. Prep. 1. Plate-brass, bismuth, antimony, and tin, equal parts, melted together, and the re- sulting ‘ alloy ^ added at discretion to melted tin, until it acquires the proper degree of colour and hardness. 2. To the first alloy, prepared as in No. 1, add ith of its w^eight of metallic arsenic, be- fore mixing it with the ^ melted tin.’ 3. Antimony, 1 part; brass, 4 parts ; tin, 5 or 6 parts; melted together. See Alloys, Queen’s Metal, Pewtee, &c. BRITISH GUM. See Gums. British Wines. See Wines. BROC'COLI. [Eng., L., Ger.] Syn. Beo- COLi, Pr.; Beoccolo, It. A well-known sub- variety of cauliflower. The qualities, and the mode of dressing broccoli, are similar to those of‘cabbages,’noticed elsewhere. See Vege- tables (Culinary), &c. BRO'MA. Prep. 1. Pure cocoa, 1 lb.; sugar and sago-meal, of each, 4 oz.; mix. British arrow-root {i. e., carefully prepared ‘potato-starch’) is often substituted for the sago. 2. As the last, but usingwheat-flour, in lieu of ‘ sago-meal.’ Made into a beverage in a similar way to cocoa. BRO"MAL. A compound discovered by Lowig, and produced by the action of bromine on alcohol. It is prepared in a similar manner to ‘ chloral,’ which it greatly resembles in its general properties. BRO'MATE. [Eng., Pr.] Syn. Beo'mas, L. j Beomsauee salze, Ger. A salt in which the base is united to bromic acid. Prop., tests, 8(c. The bromates greatly resemble the corresponding chlorates and iodates. When heated, they evolve oxygen, and become bromides ; with nitrate of silver, and with the proto-salts of mercury, they give white precipitates, that with the former being insoluble in ‘ nitric acid,’ and very soluble in ‘ ammonia.’ A few drops of hy- drochloric acid being added to a bromate, and the mixture shaken with a little ether in a glass tube, a solution of bromine is ob- tained. agitating bromine with a concentrated solution of caustic potassa, collecting the crystalline white powder that falls down, and purifying it by solution in boiling water, and crystallisa- tion. Beomate of baey'ta is prepared in a | similar manner. Beomate of silvee is formed by adding a solution of bromate of po- tassa to another of nitrate of silver. [For the other ‘ bromates ’ see the respective bases.l BROME. See Beomine. BRO'MIC ACID. Syn. AcTdum (as'-) beo'- MicuM, L.; Acide beomique, Pr.; Beom- SAUEE, Ger. Prep. Add sulphuric acid to a solution of bromate of baryta as long as a precipitate falls, particularly avoiding an ex- cess of acid; then concentrate the filtered liquor by a gentle heat, until it becomes of the consistence of a syrup. Obs. If the evaporation be carried too far, the acid suffers decomposition. It always contains water. Its salts are called beo'mates. See Beomate and Beomine. BRO'MIDE (-mid). Syn. Beo'mueet*, Hydeobeo'mate* j Beomi'dum, Beomuee'- TUM, Hydeobeo'mas, L. ; Beomide, Beo- muee, Pr. A chemical compound of bromine with a base. Prop., 6(c. The ‘ soluble bromides ’ give white precipitates with nitrate of silver, ace- tate of lead, and protonitrate of mercury. That from the first of these is insoluble in dilute nitric acid and in ammonia water unless concentrated; and it has a slight yel- lowish-tinge, changing to a violet on exposure to the light. A few drops of liquid chlorine poured upon a ‘ bromide,’ followed by agita- tion of the mixture with a little sulphuric ether, furnishes an ethereal solution of bromine. [For the other ‘bromides’ see the ‘respective bases BRO'MINE (-mm). Syn. Beome*; Beo'- • MiUM, Beomin'ium, L. ; Be6me, Pr. An ele- mentary substance, discovered by M. Balard,. of Montpellier, in 1826. Prep. A current of gaseous chlorine is passed through the uncrystallisable residuum of sea- ‘ water called bittern, which then assumes an orange tint, in consequence of ‘ bromine ’ being set free from its combinations ; sulphuric ether ,■ is then agitated with it, and the mixture is i allowed to stand, in a close vessel, until the :| ‘ethereal portion’ floats upon the surface, i This is a solution of ‘ crude bromine,’ and for common purposes the ether may be at once evaporated by a very gentle heat. To render | it pure, caustic potassa is added in excess to i the ethereal solution, or the latter is agitated with a solution of potassa, by which means ‘ bromide of potassium’ and ‘ bromate of pot- ' ash ’ are formed. The whole is evaporated to dryness, and submitted to a dull red heat. The ■ residuum is next powdered, and mixed with pure peroxide of manganese; the mixture having been placed in a retort, sulphuric acid (diluted with half its weight of water) is |