762 INFUSION. Brazil wood. When wanted to keep, rectified spirit, 3 fl. oz., is added to every pint. Used for colouring, and as a test. Infusion of Broom. Syn. Inetjsum scopA- ETi, L. From the fresh tops ofhroom (Cytisus Scoparius). Diuretic; in dropsy, &c. Infusion of Bu'chu. Syn. Inftjsum Btrcnir (Ph. L. and D.), I. buckij (Ph. E.), I. DioSMiE, L. Prep. l.(Ph. L.) Pvom buchu leaves,! oz.-, boiling distilled water, 1 pint. Diuretic, sudo- rific, tonic; in dyspepsia, &c.; but chiefly in chronic affections of the bladder and urethra attended with copious secretion. 2. (Compound; iNPUsrM buchtt compo- SITUM, I. DiosM^ c., L.—Radius.) Leaves of buchu and whortleberry, of each, | oz.; boiling water, 8 oz. (say | pint); digest for half an hour, strain, and add of syrup of senega, ^ fl. oz. Bose. 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls every hour; in atony of the bladder and mucous dis- charges. Infusion of Buck'bean. Syn. Inpusum me- NYANTHIS, L. From the herb or root of buck- bean or marsh trefoil {Menyanthes trifoliata). Bitter, stomachic, tonic, and diuretic; in large doses, purgative, vermifuge, and emetic. It has been recommended in agues, gout, dropsy, scurvy, worms, &c. The chief consumption of this plant is by the brewers; “ 2 oz. being equal to 1 lb. of hops.” (Gray.) Infusion of Bur'dock. Syn. Inpusum bae- DAN.E, L. From the root of common burdock. Aperient, diuretic, diaphoretic, and tonic; in gout, rheumatism, skin diseases, &c. See De- coction and Exteact. Infusion of Calum'ba. Syn. Inpusum ca- xijmBjE (Ph. L. and E.), I. colomBjE (Ph. D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Cc/MmiaXsliced), 5 dr.; boiling water, 1 pint; digest for 2 hours in a covered vessel, and strain. 2. (Ph. E.) Calumba (in coarse powder), I oz.; cold water, 1 pint; triturate the pow- der with a little of the water, so as to moisten it thoroughly, then put it into a percolator, and transmit cold water through it until 16 fl. oz. of infusion are obtained. 3. (Ph. D.) Calumba (in coarse powder), 3 dr.; cold water, 9 fl. oz.; macerate 2_hours, and strain. Obs. The infusion prepared by the first of the above formul® soon spoils, especially in hot weather; but that prepared by the others (inf. CALI7MB.F: CUM AQUA feigida) may be kept for some days. In either case it should not be allowed to stand upon the dregs. In- fusion of calumba is a good tonic and stomachic bitter. Bose. 1 to 3 fl. oz.; in dyspepsia, &c., and for restraining vomiting and diarrhoea during pregnancy or dentition. It is pre- ferably joined with small doses of the car- bonates of soda, potassa, ammonia, or mag- nesia, when there is acidity; or with chaly- beates, when there is paleness and a low pulse; with all of which substances it may be mixed without suffering any sensible alteration. 4. (Concentrated; InfustjmcalumbjeCON- CENTEATUM, L.)—a. Calumba (in coarse pow- der), 5| oz.; cold distilled water, 12 fl. oz.; digest, with frequent agitation, for 3 or 4 , hours, then express the liquor, and repeat the digestion with 5^ fl. oz. more of tepid water; after another hour, express this portion also, using as much force as possible; next mix the liquors, heat them quickly to the boiling-point in a shallow vessel, and pour the infusion, whilst still hot, into a strong bottle, and when it has cooled a little add of rectified spirit, 4 fl. oz., secure down the stopper or cork, and agitate well for a few minutes; the bottle must now be set aside for a week, after which the clear portion is to be decanted from the dregs. Very superior. b. (Wholesale.) From calumba (reduced to coarse powder), 5i lb. ; rectified spirit, 5 pints; (diluted with) water, 12 pints; digest for a week, or proceed by displacement. Should there be any difficulty in obtaining it free from cloudiness, the whites of 4 or 5 eggs, pre- viously mixed with about a ^ pint of cold water, may be added to the infusion, which, after being well agitated for about 10 minutes, must be allowed to repose for 7 or 8 days, and then decanted from the dregs. Should it not be perfectly transparent, it may be filtered through blotting paper. Product. 20 lb. Obs. The concentrated infusion produced by the above formula? is of very superior quality, and has acquired an extensive sale in the wholesale trade. 1 fl. dr. added to 7 fl. dr. of w'ater makes a i^erfectly transparent liquid, possessing exactly similar virtues to the infu- sion OF CALUMBA—Ph. L. Infusion of Canthar'ides. Syn. Infusion op Spanish flies ; Infusum canthaeidis, I. LYTT^, L. Prep. (Soubeiran.) Spanish flies (powdered), 20 gr.; boiling water, q. s. (about > 3^- fl. oz.) to yield 3 fl. oz., after expression and « filtration. Infusion of Cap'sicum. Syn. Infusum cap- Sici, L. Prep. 1. (Pereira.) Capsicum (pow- dered), I oz.; boiling water, 1 pint. Bose. ^ fl. oz. 2. (Stephen’s ‘Peppee medicine’—Pereira.) Red pepper {Capsicum fructescens), 2 table- spoonfuls (or 3 of cayenne pepper^; common salt, 2 teaspoonfuls; boiling water, ^ pint; to the strained liquor, when cold, add of very sharp vinegar, ^ pint. Bose. 1 table-spoonful, slowly swallowed, every half hour, in cholera, malignant sore throat, scarlatina, &c. Infusion of Car'away. Syn. Caeaway tea ; Infusum CiEUi, L. Prep. From bruised caraway seed, 3 dr.; boiling water, 1 pint. In the flatulent colic of infants, and as an ad- junct to aperient medicine. Infusion of Car'rot Seed. Syn. Infusum DAUCi, I. CAEOTiE, L. Diuretic; in dropsy and nephritic complaints; ^ to 1 pint being taken daily. Infusion of Cascaril'la. Syn. Infusum CASCAEiLU®: (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph, L, & E.) Cascarilla (bruised,) 1^ oz.;