FOOL—FORMIC ACID. 663 teal, snipes, widgeon, and grouse. — Fish : i Dories, sinelts, pike, perch, halibuts, brills, I carp, salmon-trout, barbel, gudgeons, tench, i and shelllish.— Vegetables : (As in January), I French-beans, last crops of beans, &c.—Fruit: I Peaches, pears, figs, bullace, gi*apes, apples, ‘ medlars, damsons, filberts, walnuts, nuts, quinces, services, and medlars. (In Novem- I ber)—Meatf 6^c.: Beef, mutton, veal, pork, house-lamb, doe venison, and poiiltry and j game as in the last month.—Fish: As the i last month. — Vegetables: Carrots, turnips, parsnips, potatoes, skirrets, scorzonera, onions, I leeks, shalots, cabbage, savoys, colewort, spinach, ! chardbeats, chardoons, cresses, endive, celery, I lettuces, salad-herbs, and various pot-herbs.— Fruit: Pears, apples, nuts, walnuts, bullace, i chestnuts, medlars, and grapes. (In Decem- I ber)—Meat, (fc.: Beef, mutton, veal, house- I lamb, pork, and venison.—Poultry and Game : 1 Geese, turkeys, pullets, pigeons, capons, fowls, chickens, rabbits, hares, snipes, woodcocks, I larks, pheasants, partridges, sea-fowls, guinea- I fowls, wild ducks, teal, widgeon, dotterels, I dun-birds, and grouse.—Fish : Cod, turbot, , halibuts, soles, gurnets, sturgeon, carp, gud- 1 geons, codlings, eels, dories, and shell-fish.— I Vegetables: As in last month. Asparagus, I &c., forced.—Fruit: As before, except bul- I lace. ; FOOL. Coo/iS give this name to a species i of jam made of boiled and crushed fruit, I mixed with milk or cream, and sweetened. Ap'ple Fool. From the peeled and cored 1 fruit, placed in a jar, with moist sugar, q. s. to i render it palatable, and a very little cider or j perry; the jar is set in a saucepan of water I over the fire, and the heat continued until the ' apples become quite soft, when they are pulped i through a colander, and a sutficient quantity of milk, a little cream, and some sugar, added I to bring them to the proper ‘ palate.’ I Goose'berry Fool. From gooseberries, as the I last. Those which are unripe are generally i preferred. These preparations, when nicely I made, are very pleasant and wholesome. FOOT (Human). See Feet. I FOOTS. Coarse moist sugar. The scrapings I of the sugar hogsheads, refuse sugar, waste, I and dirt, is also sold to the publicans under I this name, who use it in the adulteration of i their beer; chiefly to make it stand more I water, and to impart ‘ briskness.’ j FORCE'MEAT. Syn. Faece, Stuffing. A I species of sausage meat, either served up j alone, or employed as an ingredient in other I dishes. ! Mrs. Rundelltruly remarks that “at many . tables, where everything else is done well, it is common to find very bad forcemeat or i stufling.” To avoid this error, care should be I taken to so proportion the ingredients that 1 “ no one flavour should predominate; yet if several dishes be served the same day, there I should be a marked vanety in the tastes of I the forcemeats, as well as of the gravies. A general fault is, that the tastes of lemon-peel and thyme overcome all others; therefore they sh'ould only be used in small quantities.” Force- meats should be just consistent enough to cut with a knife, but not dry and heavy\ Herbs are very essential ingredients j and it is the copious and judicious use of them that chiefly gives the cookery of the French its superior flavour. “ To force fowls, meat, &c., is to stuff them.” (Mrs. Rundell.) FOR'CIRG. florticulluralists apply this term to the a^t of accelerating the growth of plants, so as to obtain fruits or flowers at un- usual seasons. Dung-beds, bark-beds, and frames, pits, and houses, with glass roofs, are commonly employed by the gardeners for this purpose. FOR'MATE. Syn. Formiate ; Foemias, L. In chemistry, a salt of formic acid. The formates are readily obtained, either by direct saturation of the acid, or by double decomposi- tion J most of them are very soluble, and are de- composed by hot oil of vitriol. Formate of AMMONIA crystallizes in square prisms; for- mate OF SODA, in rhombic prisms; formate OF roTASSA is deliquescent, and crystallizes with difficulty; the formates of baryta, LIME, MAGNESIA, and STRONTIA, form Small prismatic crystals; formate of lead as- sumes the shape of small colourless needles, soluble in 40 parts of water; the formates OF COBALT, IRON, MANGANESE, NICKEL, and ZINC, are easily crystallizable, whilst that of copper forms very beaiitiful, large, bright- blue rhombic prisms; formate of silver is less soluble than the salt of lead, and is decom- posed at a gentle heat. See Formic Acid. FOR'MIC ACID. Syn. Acid of ants ; Aci- DUM FORMICUM, L. An add occurring in the bodies of ants. It was formerly solely pre- pared from these insects by distilling them along Vv’ith water. It was first obtained arti- ficially by Dobereiner. Prep. 1. Sugar, 1 part; water, 2 parts; binoxide of manganese, 3 parts ; mix in a retort capable of holding fully 10 times the bulk of the ingredients, and add, cautiously, oil of vitriol, 3 parts, diluted with an equal weight of water; as soon as the first violent efler- vesceuce has subsided, heat may be applied, and the ijroduct collected and purified, as below. 2. (Dobereiner.) Tartaric acid, 2 parts; peroxide of manganese and concentrated suU phuric acid, of each, 3 parts; water, 5 parts; distil in a capacious retort into a well-cooled receiver. 3. (Fownes.) From dry oxalic acid and siliceous sand or pumice-stone, equal parts, distilled together. The product is scanty, but very strong, and contains a little oxalic acid. 4. (Liebig.) Starch, 1 part; peroxide of manganese (in fine powder), 4 parts; water, 4 parts; mix in an alembic or retort, as be- fore, heat to 104° Fahr., and add, by degrees.