1115 POTASSA. 1 )Osed to the action of chlorine gas, to satuva- ion; (the gas is absorbed with great rapidity, he temperature rises above 212^ Fahr., and v’ater is freely evolved); the heat, with free I xposure, is then maintained at 212'^ for a few aiiiutes (to remove some trace of ‘ hypochlo- ite’), the residuum, consisting of chlorate of lotassa and chloride of potassium, is treated vdth hot water, and the chlorate of potassa jrystallized out of the resulting solution, as fielbre. This process, which is an excellent [■ne (the loss of potassa being for the most part voided), has been modified and improved by I arious authorities, as will be seen below. I 4. (Juche.) Dry and fresh hydrate of lime ,nd carbonate of potassa, of each, 1 pai’t, are iiiixed with water, 8 parts, and chlorine passed jhrough the mixture to saturation; the cJilo- \ ate is then obtained from the filtered liquid, 13 before. 5. (Liebig.) ‘ Chloride of lime’ is kept heated i^ith a little water, until it ceases to effect vege- able colours; it is then dissolved in hot u'ater, nd to the solution, concentrated (if necessary) jty evaporation, a strong solution of chloride of potassium is added, [and the liquid filtered; rystals of chlorate of potassa are deposited as |he solution cools. Chloride of lime utterly jk'orthless for other purposes may be used in I his process. “ 12 oz., containing fully 65|[ of nsoluble matter, yielded 1 oz. of the chlo- ate.” (See No. 8.) I 6. (Romer.) Carbonate of potassa ■n shelves or trays in an air-tight chamber, v'hich is then filled with an atmosphere of hlorine gas (generated in the usual manner), he supply being maintained for 15 or 18 conse- 'utive hours; after which the apparatus is I'pened, and the newly formed chlorate freed |fom chloride or muriate by solution and Irystallization. I 7. (Vee.) A solution of ‘ chloride of lime’ jl8 to 20"^ Baume) is heated in a leaden or ^ast-iron vessel, and sufficient chloride of po- assium added to raise the density of the liquid ' or 4 hydrometer degrees; the solution is hen quickly, but carefully, concentrated until he gravity rises to 30° or 31° Baume, when it s set aside to crystallize. A good and econo- uical process. 8. (Wagenmann.) Chloride of potassium, equiv. (=.76 parts), and fresh hydrate of ime, 6 equiv. (= 222 parts), are reduced to a hin paste with water, q. s., and a stream of hlorine gas passed through the mixture, to aturation; chloride of calcium and chlorate if potash are formed; the last is then removed >y solution in boiling water, and is crystallized, IS before. This process, which has received he approval and recommendation of Liebig, las long been practised in Germany, and was iriginally introduced to this country by Dr. iVagenmann. The product is very large, and if excellent quality. 9. As the last, but substituting 1 equiv. or >6 parts of hydrate of potassa, for the chloride, and heating the mixture to 125° Fahr. before exposing it to the stream of chlorine, which should be rapid and plentiful. The product, under skilful management, varies from 210 to 225^ of the weight of pure potassa onerated on. Prop. White, inodorous, four- ai six-sided pearly scales, soluble in about 20 parts of cold and 2^ parts of boiling water; in taste, it re- sembles nitre, bitt is somewhat more austere ; at about 450° Fahr. it undergoes the igneous fusion, and on increasing the heat almost to redness eftervescence ensues, and fully 39g of pure oxygen gas is given off, whilst the salt becomes changed into chloride of potassium. When mixed with inflammable substances and triturated, heated, or subjected to a smart blov,' or strong pressure, or moistened with a strong acid, it explodes with great violence. (See below.) Pur., tests, 4'c. The usual impurity of this salt is chloride of potassium, arising from care- less or imperfect manipulation. When this is present, a solution of nitrate of silver gives a curdy white precipitate, soluble in liquor of am- monia ; whereas a solution of the pure chlorate remains clear. (See Potassa and Chlohate.) Uses. Chlorate of potassa is principally used in the manufacture of lucifer matches, fireworks, oxygen gas, &c,, and as an oxidizing agent in calico printing. It was formerly used to fill percussion caps, but was abandoned for fulminating mercury, on account of its disposition to rust the nipples of the guns. As a medicine, it is stimulant and diuretic. It has been given in dropsy, syphilis, scurvy, cholera, typhus, and other depressing affec- tions. It gives a fine artificial colour to the blood. (Stevens.) Dose. 5 to 15 gr.s., in solution, twice or thrice daily. Concluding remarks. Formerly, chlorate of potassa was a salt which was made only on the small scale, and chiefly used in experi- mental chemistry; now it is in considerable demand, and forms an important article of chemical manufacture. The latter has hence, of late years, received considerable attention and improvement in the leading laboratories of Europe. Chlorate of potassa requires to be handled with great care. It should never be kept in admixture with any inflammable sub- stance, more especially with sulphur, phos- phorus, or the sulphurets, as these compounds are exploded by the most trivial causes, and, not unfrequeiitly, explode spontaneously. Chro'mates of Potas'sa. Three of these salts are known, the neutral chromate, the bichro- mate, and the trichromate. The first two are important articles of manufacture ; the last one is a mere chemical curiosity, which need not be described here:— 1. Chromate of Potassa. Syn. Nettteal CIIEOMATE OF POTASH, MONOCHEOMATE OF P., Yellow c. of p.. Salt of cheome ; PoTASSiE CHEOJIAS, P. c. PLATA, L. This salt is only prepared on the large scale. Its source is ‘ CHEOME OEE," a natural octahedral chromate