I 380 liLEACHlNG. followed by drying in the sun, adopted by the ancients, is a process which of itself, by fre- quent repetition, decolourises the raw mate- rials of textile fabrics, and thus must inevitably have taught them the art of ‘ natural bleach- ing’ of a character similar to that practised in Europe up to a comparatively very recent period. And this appears, according to the authority of ancient authors, to have been the case. Washing or steeping in alkaline and ammoniacal lyes, or in milk of lime, followed by exposure in the sun, formed the chief basis of their system ; whilst woollens, then as now, were treated with soap and fuller’s earth, or with potter’s clay, marl, Cimolian earth, or other like mineral. Urine was highly esteemed among them; and we are told that in the time of the emperor Vespasian,^ and undoubt- edly long before it, cloths were ‘ sulphured.’ Indeed, according to Pliny, ‘ sulphuring’ was often had recourse to in ordinary washing, as well as in the bleaching process.^ Bleaching continued to be practised with no essential change of its principles until the dis- covery of chlorine, to which we shall presently refer. “ In the last century, Holland obtained the. best name for bleaching. The process passed then to Ireland and Scotland, and thence into England. It was even customary to send goods from this country to be bleached ■in Holland. The first attempt to vie with Holland, was made, in Scotland, in 1749.’’^ The first steps towards the ‘modern’ or ‘chemical’ system of bleaching were the in- vestigations of Berthollet on chlorine, in 1784, but which were not communicated to the French Academy until the year 1787. The knowledge of the use of chlorine as a ‘bleacher’ was soon afterwards brought to this country by the Duke of Gordon, and by Prof. Copeland of Aberdeen, and through them was practically applied by Messrs. Milnes of that place. About the same time, James Watt, a cor- respondent of Berthollet, successfully intro- duced its use in the neighbourhood of Glasgow, and then generously laid a statement of the results before the Manchester manufacturers. In enforcing the importance of the new sub- stance and process on these gentlemen, he was ably followed and seconded by Dr. Henry. In 1798, Mr. Chas. Tennant, of Glasgow, ob- tained a patent for a new ‘ bleaching liquor’ prepared by saturating lime-water with chlo- rine; and another, in 1799, for dry chloride of lime, a substance which is still preferred as a ‘ bleacher’ to all the other preparations of chlorine. The ‘ new’ or ‘ continuous process’ of bleaching, as it is called, and that which is at present in general use in all the chief bleach-works of Lancashire, was introduced by Mr. David Bentley, of Pendleton, and patented by him in 1828. Proc. Bleaching is commonly said to be 1 About A.D. 60. 2 Tihst. Nat., xxxv. 57, &c. 3 Ure’s “ Diet, of Arts, M. ^ M.," 5tli ed., i. 319. NATURAL, when expo.sure to light, air, and moisture, forms the leading part of the pro- cess; and to be chemical, when chlorine, chlo- ride of lime, sulphurous acid, or other like substances, are employed. In some cases, as with linen, the two processes are combined. The subject requires to be noticed under separate heads, depending on the material operated on;— I. Bleachinh of Cotton:—Cotton is more easily bleached, and appears to suffer less from the process, than most other textile substances. On the OLD plan it was first (1) thoroughly washed in warm water, to remove the weaver’s paste or dressing; then (2) ^hucked’ or ‘ bowked* (boiled) in a weak alkaline lye, or in milk of lime, to remove colouring, fatty, and resinous matters, insoluble in simple water; and after being (3) again well washed, was (4) spread out upon the grass, or bleaching ground, and freely exposed to the joint action of light, air, and moisture (technically called ‘ crofting’). The operation of ‘ bucking’ in an alkaline lye, wasAmy, and exposure, was repeated as often as necessary, when the goods were (5) ‘soured’ or immersed in water acidulated with sulphuric acid, after which they (6) received a final thorough washing in clean water, and were (7) dried, finished, folded for the market. From the length of the exposure i, upon the bleaching ground, this method is ff apt to injure the texture of the cloth; and from » the number of operations required, is neces- sarily expensive and tedious. It is therefore now very generally superseded by the system of ‘ chemical bleaching’ briefly described below. In the CHEMICAL SYSTEM of bleaching, the ‘ goods’ are ‘ washed’ and ‘ bucked’ as on the ‘ old’ plan, then submitted to the action of a weak solution of chloride of lime, and after- • wards passed through water soured with hy- drochloric or sulphuric acid, when they have only to be thoroughly washed, and to be dried finished, for the entire completion of the process. The ‘new’ or ‘continuous process,’ before referred to,^ is the method of chemical bleach- ing at present in the most general use; and, indeed, it has nearly superseded all other methods. In this system the pieces, previ- ously tacked together endwise so as to form a chain, are drawn, by the motion of rollers, in any direction, and any number of times, througli every solution to the action of which it is desired to expose them, and this entirely and completely under the control of the operator. The following Table exhibits an outline of the several operations in the improved form of the ‘ continuous process ’ as practised by Messrs. McNaughten, Barton, & Thom, at Chorley, and in most other large bleach- works :— 1 V sa cii on Ifi cli IC «p jl; SJ ! jtll ■ H 'I) 'e , i i ♦ See Hist. (ant^).