882 MANGANIC ACID; thus connected into one apparatus, the whole is accurately weighed. The opening of the tube b being closed by a small lump of ivax, a little sulphuric acid is sucked over from the hask B into the flask A ; the disengagement of oxygen from the manganese immediately commences, and this reacting upon the oxalic acid present, converts it into carbonic acid gas, v/hich passing through the concentrated sulphuric acid in the flask B, which robs it of moisture, finally escapes from the apparatus through the tube d. As soon as the dis- engagement of carbonic acid ceases, the ope- rator sucks over a fresh portion of sulphuric acid, and this is repeated at short intervals, until bubbles of gas are no longer disengaged. The little wax stopper is now removed, and suction is applied at h until all the carbonic acid in the apparatus is replaced by common air. When the whole has become cold, it is again weighed. The loss of weight, doubled, indicates the amount of pure binoxide of man- ganese in the sample, as before. 3, (Otto.) 50 gr. of the sample, reduced to very fine powder, are mixed in a glass flask, with hydrochloric acid, fl. oz., diluted with ^ oz. of cold water, and portions of pure jyro- tosulphate of iron, from a weighed sample, im- mediately added j at first in excess, and after- ivards, in smaller doses, until the liquid ceases to give a blue precipitate with red prussiate of potash, or to evolve the odour of chlorine; heat being employed towards the end of the process. The quantity of protosulphate con- sumed is now ascertained by again weighing the sample. If the binoxide examined Avas piire, the loss of w’eight will be 317 gr.; but if otherwise, the per-centage of pure oxide may be obtained by the rule of three. Thus ; suppose, only 298 gr. of the sulphate Avere con- sumed, then 317 : 100 :: 298 : 94, and the richness of the sample Avould be 94g. The per-centage value of the oxide for evolving chlorine may be obtained by multiplying the w'eight of the consumed sulphate of iron by '2588, Avliich, in the above case, Avould give 76|| of chlorine. For this purpose as Avell as for chloromelry, the sulphate of iron is best prepared by precipitating it from its aqueous solution with alcohol, and drying it out of con- tact Avith air until it loses its alcoholic odour. Obs. Before applying the above processes, it is absolutely necessary that Ave ascertain whether the binoxide examined contains any carbonates, as the presence of these Avould vitiate the results. This is readily determined by treating it Avith a little dilute nitric acid ;— if effervescence ensues, one or more carbonates are present, and the sample, after being w'eighed, must be digested for some time in dilute nitric acid in excess, and then carefully collected on a filter, Avashed, and dried. It may then be assayed as before. The loss of\ weight indicates the quantity of carbonates j present, Avith sufficient accuracy for technical' purposes. The determination of this point is the more important, as these contaminations not merely lessen the richness of the mineral in pure binoxide of manganese, but also cause a considerable waste of acid Avhen it is em- ployed in the manufacture of chlorine. Phos'phate of Manganese. Syn. Phos- phate OP PEOTOXIEE OP MANGANESE ; MaN- GANESii PHOSPHAS, L. Brep. By precipitating a solution of sidphate of manganese Avith a solu- tion of jjhosphate of soda. It must be pre- served from the air. Bose. 3 to 12 gr.; in anaemia, rickets, &c. Sul'phate of Manganese. Syn. Sulphate OP PEOTOXIDE OP MANGANESE ; MaNGANESII SULPHAS, L. Prep. 1. By dissolving carbo- nate of manganese in dilute sulphuric acid, and evaporating the filtered solution so that crystals may form, or at once gently evaporating it to dryness. Pure. 2. (Commercial.) By igniting binoxide of manganese (pyrolusite) mixed Avithabout 1-lOth of its Aveight of powdered coal in an iron cru- cible or gas-retort, and digesting the residuimi of the calcination in sulphuric acid, with the addition after a time of a little hydrochloric acid; the solution of sulphate of manganese thus obtained, after defecation, is evaporated to dryness, and heated to redness as before; the mass, after ignition, is crushed small, and treated Avith water; the solution is nearly pure, the Avhole of the iron having been re- duced into the state of insoluble peroxide. Used by the calico-printers. Cloth steeped in the solution, and afterAvards passed through a solution of chloride of lime, is dyed of a per- manent broAvn. Prop., ^'c. Pale rose-coloured crystals, fur- nishing a solution of a rich amethystinel colour. With sulphate of potassa, it forms a double salt manganese alum’). Bose. As an alterative and tonic, 5 to 10 gr.; as a cho- lagogue cathartic, 1 to 2 dr., dissolved in water, either alone or combined Avith infusion of senna. According to Ure, its action is prompt and soon over; 1 dr. of it occasions, after the lapse of an hour or so, one or more liquid bilious stools. In large doses it occa- sions vomiting, and in excessive doses it de- stroys life by its caustic action on the stomach. (Dr. G. C. Mitscherlich.) It has been admi- nistered Avith manifest advantage in torpor of the liver, gout, jaundice, syphilis, and certain skin diseases; and, combined with iron, in anaemia, chlorosis, rickets, &c. Sul'phuret of Manganese. Syn. Manga- NESii SULPHUEETUM, L. This is a natural mineral production, but may also be procured by igniting a mixture of 1 part of sulphate oj\ manganese and 1 part of charcoal. Tar'trate of Manganese. Syn. ManganesiiI TAETKAS, L. Prep. By saturating a solution of tartaric acid Avith moist carbonate of manganese.] Alterative and tonic. Bose. 4 to 12 gr. - MANGANIC ACID. Syn. IVIanganeslous ACID. This acid (MnOg) is formed AvheneVer