718 GUANO. and a solution of bichloride of platinum added, in excess •, some strong alcohol is next poured in, the precipitate carefully collected on a filter, washed with rectified spirit, dried at 212° Fahr., and weighed. The weight, in grains, multiplied by T940, gives the per- centage of POTASSA sought. c. The weight of the potassa multiplied by 1-852, and deducted from the weight of the ignited residuum in 3, h, already found (see above), gives the quantity of chloride op SODIHM or COMMON SALT (nearly). 4. —a. The insoluble residuum from 3, a, dried, and ignited, or the ash from 1, c, is digested for 10 or 12 hours in 600 times its weight of water (to which a little common salt or sal ammoniac may be added), after which the whole is thrown upon a filter; a solution of chloride of barium is then added to the filtrate as long as a precipitate (if any) forms; the latter is collected, washed, dried, ignited, and weighed. The weight, in grains, multi- plied by -5843, denotes the quantity of OYP- SDM or SULPHATE OP LIME which has been used to adulterate the sample. b. The insoluble residuum last left on the filter is digested for some time in warm dilute hydrochloric acid ,• the whole is then thrown upon a filter, and the undissolved portion (si- lica or SAND, with, perhaps, a trace of alu- mina), is washed, dried, ignited, and weighed. It should not weigh more than 3 to 3| gr. (3 to 3^ ^). c. The filtrate and ‘ washings’ from b are next mixed together; the mixed liquid is acidified with dilute sulphuric acid, and heated until all the hydrochloric acid is expelled, and the whole reduced to a soft pasty-mass; rec- tified spirit is now poured in, and after active stirring for some time, the mixture is thrown on a filter, and the solid portion washed with a little more rectified spirit ; it is then dried, ignited, and weighed. The weight, in grains, multiplied by *7650, gives the quantity of PHOSPHATE OP lime jier cent, required. d. filtrate from c is diluted with water, and after being boiled for a few minutes, am- monia is added in slight excess, followed by a solution of sulphate of magnesia (previously mixed with as much sal ammoniac as will pre- vent ammonia producing a precipitate in it), slowly dropped in as long as it disturbs the liquor; the whole is now allowed to rest for 10 or 12 hours, when the precipitate is col- lected on a filter, and washed with water alka- lized with ammonia, as long as the filtering liquid is rendered turbid by chloride of ba- rium ; it is next dried, submitted to intense ignition for some time in a covered platinum crucible, and when cold, carefully weighed. The weight, in grains, multipled by -6429, in- dicates the per-centage of phosphoric acid in the insoluble phosphates (phosphates of lime, magnesia, &c.) in the sample examined. 5. A fourth 1(K) gr. of guano is weighed, and exhausted by trituration and digestion with hot water (see 3, a); the solution is eva* • porated to dryness by a gentle heat, and the residuum of the evaporation, after being weighed, is powdered and enclosed in a stout phial with 8 times its volume of alcohol, sp. gr. -825 (63 o. p.); the plant is next securely corked and guarded, and exposed for some time, with agitation, to the heat of 212° Fahr., the whole is then allowed to cool, the contents of the phial filtered, the undissolved portion washed with hot alcohol, and both the filtrate and the ‘ washings’ gently evaporated to dry- ness, and weighed. This gives the richness of the sample in urea, one of the most valuable constituents of the best guano. Its presence is “ a certain proof of its entire soundness.” (Ure.) 6.—a. Another gr. of the guano is taken, and after being exhausted with water, is dried at 212° Fahr., and weighed; it is then digested with heat in 20 times its weight of borax- water (containing 1§ of borax), or in a solution of caustic potassa, and after a time the whole is thrown on a weighed filter, washed with a little cold distilled water, dried by a heat not higher than that of boiling water, and again carefully weighed. The loss, in grains, indi- cates the projiortion per cent, of uric acid. The accuracy of the result may be verified by adding dilute hydrochloric acid, in slight excess, to the filtrate, collecting the bulky, crystalline precipitate of uric acid which forms, washing it carefully with a little recti- fied spirit, drying it, and weighing it, as be- fore. This weight, which in general is a very little under that denoted above, is the more accurate of the two. The precipitate is shown to be uric acid by its assuming a rich crimson j colour when treated with a little nitric acid, j which turns to a rich purple (murexide) when it is moistened with ammonia water. b. The quantity of uric acid last obtained, multiplied by 1-1012, gives the per-centage of URATE OF AMMONIA. Obs. Amongst the numerous constituents of guano, none are so valuable in an agricultural point of view as the three substances referred to in the last two sections. Indeed, almost all the ammonia furnished by this substance to the soil, after the latter, manured with it, has been exposed to the air and rain, is derived^ from the slow decomposition of urea, or urate I of ammonia. It is these substances from which the store of latent, or, as Dr. Ure terms it, j potential ammonia, is derived. The ammonia j existing in the guano under the form of car- i bonate, or of soluble salts {ready formed am- , -I monia), is either soon dissipated in air or is washed away by heavy rains, and, therefore, forms the least valuable and durable portion of this manure. It may be even added arti- ficially, a matter almost impossible with the former. An assay, therefore, for the latent ammonia, or the urea, or the urate of ammonia, any one of them singly, at once furnishes us, as we have already hinted, with evidence of