SILVER. 1197 j)lubility in mercury, and by subsequent cu- jellation. It is only prepared on the large scale. I Chemically pure silver may be obtained y any of the methods noticed at the end of ,iis article. ! Refined silver (virgin silver; argen- iUM—Ph. L., A. PURIFICATUM—Ph. D., A CU- jELLATUM) is silver that has passed the cupel. ! Prop. Pure silver has a very white colour, j high degree of lustre, is exceedingly mal- bable and ductile, and is probably the best bnduetor of heat and electricity known. Its I ardness is between that of copper and gold; A sp. gr. is about 10‘5; it melts at about i873° Fahr., or bright redness (Daniell); is j:eely soluble in nitric acid, and dissolves in lalphuric acid by the aid of heat; it refuses 0 oxidize alone at any temperature, but, when brongly heated in open vessels, it absorbs lany times its bulk of oxygen, which is again isengaged at the moment of solidification; }s surface is rapidly tarnished by sulphuretted ydrogen and by the fumes of sulphur. Pur. “Entirely soluble in diluted nitric cid. This solution, treated with an excess f muriate of soda (chloride of sodium), gives white precipitate entirely soluble in ammonia ater, and a fluid which is not afiected by ulphuretted hydrogen.” (Ph. E.) Tests. 1. The compounds of silver, mixed dth carbonate of soda, and exposed on a iharcoal support to the inner flame of the lowpipe, afibrd white, brilliant, and ductile letallic globules, without any incrustation of he charcoal.—2. The salts of silver are non- 1 olatile and colourless, but most of them ac- j uire more or less of a black tint by exposure 0 full daylight. 1 The soluble salts of silver give—1, A white \urdy precipitate (chloride of silver) with |:iydrochloric acid and the soluble metallic ihlorides, which is soluble in ammonia and insoluble in nitric acid, and blackened by xposure to light;—2, White precipitates with olutions of the alkaline carbonates, oxalates, nd ferrocyanides;—3, Yellow precipitates with he alkaline arsenites and phosphates;—4, Vith the arseniates, red precipitates;—5, Vith the fixed alkalies, brown precipitates;— i, With sulphuretted hydrogen and hydro- ulphuret of ammonia, a black powder, which s insoluble in dilute acids, alkalies, alkaline ulphurets, and cyanide of potassium, but .eadily soluble, with separation of sulphur, in polling nitric acid; and—7, With phosphorus, ind with metallic copper or zinc, pure silver. Estim. 1. The method of assaying silver )y cupellalion has been explained at page 238; ind that method is alone applicable when the illoy contains a very small quantity of silver, 18 a few ounces only per ton. Wlaen the re- verse is the case, as with the silver of commerce, he following is a much more accurate me- hod;— 2. Humid assay of silver.—a. Dissove 10 gr. )f the silver for assay in 100 gr. of nitric acid, sp. gr. 1’28, by the aid of heat, the solution being made in a tall stoppered glass tube, fur- nished with a foot; then place it in a very delicate balance, bring it into an exact state of equilibrium, and add the test-liquor (see below), gradually and cautiously, until the whole of the silver be thrown down; the number of grains now required to restore the equilibrium of the balance or scales gives the exact quantity of pure silver in 1000 parts of the sample.— Obs. To ensure accuracy, after each addition the stopper should be placed in the tube, and the latter violently agitated for a short time, when the liquor will rapidly clear and enable us to see when the operation is concluded. We must then, as a check, add a small quantity of a solution of nitrate of silver to the liquor in the tube, after having first carefully taken the weight. If too much of the test-liquor has been added, this will produce a fresh precipitate, and the assay can- not then be depended on,—Instead of weighing the quantity of test-tiquor used, a tube gradu- ated into 100 parts, and holding 1000 gr., may be employed, every division of which required to throw down the silver, will represent the j^jth of a grain. See Alea.limetry and Acidi- METRY. b. The precipitate of chloride of silver may be collected in a paper filter, and be dried, washed, fused, and weighed. The previous weight of the paper, deducted from the gross weight of the fllter and its contents, gives the quantity of chloride of silver present, w'hich, multiplied by *75278, gives the weight of the PURE SILVER in the sample. The TEST-LIQUOR. Dissolve 54*27 (54^) gr. of pure chloride of sodium (common salt) in 9945*73 gr. (or 22 oz. and 320f gr. avoirdu- pois) of distilled water; filter, and keep the liquor in a stoppered bottle for use. The pure salt is obtained by boiling together, for a few minutes, in a glass vessel, a solution of common salt with a little pure bicarbonate of soda; then adding to the filtered liquor sufiicient hydrochloric acid to render it neutral to litmus and turmeric paper, and, lastly, evaporating and crystallizing. Obs. The presence of mercury, lead, or sulphuret of silver, interferes with the accu- racy of the above assay. When mercury is present, the precipitate blackens less readily by exposure to light; and when it con- tains ygjjQ or -^5*55 of chloride of mercury, it re- mains of a dead white; with it is not sen- sibly discoloured by the diflused light of a room ; with y^g, only slightly darkened ; with yg'gg, luore SO ', but with pure chloride of silver, the effect is very rapid and intense. When this metal is present, which is, however, seldom the case, the assay sample must be placed in a small crucible, and exposed to a full red heat, before solution in the acid. Another method, proposed by Levol, and modified by Gay-Lus- sac, is to add to the nitric solution of the silver sufficient acetate of ammonia or crystallized