41 ACORITES—ACEID. or the unsound skin, affects the whole nervous I system. Even by remaining long in the hand, I or on the bosom, it produces unpleasant symptoms. Fatal cases of poisoning, by eating the root in mistake for horseradish, have been common of late years. The leaves should be j| gathered as soon as the flowers appear. The |{ root should be taken up in autumn. When I the whole plant is employed, it should be I gathered as soon as the flowers begin to open. (1 The strength (richness in aconitina) varies con- Ii siderably with the time of the year. 1 oz. of the ‘ fresh root’ contains i to | gr. of aconitine; I 1 lb. of the dried English root contains from 12 to 36 gr. (Herapath). The leaves possess the greatest activity just before flowering; the f root^ after it. The root is at all times fully six : times as strong as the leaves or herb. The i wild plant contains much more aconitine than ( that which is cultivated. The herb, and all its i preparations, lose their efficacy if long kept. I The powder, more particularly, cannot be re- lied on. Prop., ant., fyc. See Aconite. Tests, Sfc. See Aconitine. Uses, Sfc. In small doses aconite is narcotic, I powerfully diaphoretic, and sometimes diuretic; in larger ones, the symptoms are similar to those produced by ‘aconitine.’ It acts as a powerful sedative on the heart’s action, and I destroys sensibility without disturbing the ! mental faculties. It has been given in chronic rheumatism, gout, paralysis, scirrhus, scrofula, cancers, venereal nodes, epilepsy, amaurosis, I intermittents, &c.; but its exhibition requires the greatest possible caution. As a topical be- “ number it has been used with great advantage in painful affections depending on increased sen- sibility of the nerves. Externally, it “ is most valuable for the cure of neuralgic and rheu- I matic pains. In neuralgia, no remedy, I be- lieve, will be found equal to it. One applica- tion of the tincture produces some amelio- ration ; and after a few times’ use, it frequently happens that the patient is cured. In some cases, the benefit appears almost magical. In others, however, it entirely fails to give per- manent relief.” “ I do not think that in any (case) it proves injurious.” “When it succeeds, it gives more or less relief at the first appli- cation. WTien the disease depends on inflam- mation, aconite will be found, I think, an un- availing remedy.” “ In rhdixmatic pains, un- accompanied with local swelling or redness, ' aconite is frequently of very great service.” (Pereira, iii, 691.) Dose, of the powder, 1 to 2 gr., gradually increased to 6 or 8. Dr. Stoerk was the first who gave wolfsbane internally, about the year 1762. It has since been suc- cessfully employed in Germany in cases of chronic rheumatism, gout, &c., some of which were of long standing and had resisted every other remedy. In England it has been less ex- tensively used. See Extracts, Ointments, Tinctures, Horseradish, &c. Aconitum Panicula'tum. Paniclcd wolfsbane; a species formerly ordered in the Ph. L. ; and, with a. napellus, also in the Ph. U. S. It is less active than the officinal species. ACORTTES (-tez). Wine flavoured with acorus, liquorice, S^c. (Dioscorides.) A'CORN. Syn. OKE'coRNf§; Glans quer'cus, L. The seed or fruit of the oak. In the early ages of the world, acorns probably formed one of the principal articles of the food of man. (Ovid, Met., i, 106; Virgil, Georg., i, 8 j &c.) In modern times, during periods of scarcity, they have been consumed as food on the Continent. Besides farina, they contain a peculiar species of sugar, which crystallises in prisms, and is unfermentable. Mannite and dulcose are the substances which it most nearly resembles. (M. Dessaignes.) See Coffee. AC'ORUS CAL'AMUS. See Sweet Flag. ACOTYLE'DONS (-ko-te-le'-). Syn. Acoty- le'dones (-don-ez; L., prim., Gr.), Jussieu; Acotyledons, Fr.; Ohne samenlappen, Ger. In botany, plants whose seeds are not fur- nished with distinct cotyledons or seed lobes. The term is usually applied to ferns, mosses, lichens, fungi, sea-weeds, and other plants, which have no proper seeds, but which are propagated by either undivided spherical bodies called spores, or sporules, which are en- closed in cases, called thecce, embedded in the substance of the plant, or borne on the tips of certain privileged cells, called sporophores; or by a special disintegration and solidification of some part of their tissue, spontaneously effected in various ways according to their kinds. They are also characterised by consisting chiefly of cellular tissue, by the absence of sexual organs and consequently of flowers, and by the absence of spiral vessels except in the more highly developed species. Acotyle'donous plants form one of the two great divisions of the vegetable kingdom, according to the natural system. They are remarkable by in- creasing chiefly in length, by additions to their end; and not by additions to the outside, as in Exogens; or to the inside, as in Endogens. They are also termed Asex'ual and Flower- less PLANTS, and answer to the Cryptogamia of the Linnean system. See Acrogens, Cel- LULARES, ThALLOGENS, &C. ACOUS'TICS (-kow'-). The science of audition and sound ; that branch of physics which treats of their causes, nature, and phe- nomena. The doctrine of the production and transmission of sound is termed Diacous'tics ; that of reflected sound Catacous'tics. Acoustics. In medicine, remedies employed to relieve deafness.f AC'RID. Syn. A'cer, A'cris, L. ; Acre (acre), Fr.; Beissend, Scharf, Ger. In chemistry and medicine, sharp, pungent, acrimonious. Acrid substances (ac'rids ; ac'ria, L.), are such as excite a sensation of pungency and heat when tasted, and which irritate and inflame the skin; as mustard, tur~ pentine, cantharides, &c. H., ACRId’ity {dcrete, Fr.; acritu'do, L.), quality of being acrid.