880 MANGANESE. perature. Dilate sulplmrlc acid dissolves it with great energy, evolving hydrogen. Sp. gr. 7-13. In an oxidized state manganese is abundant in the mineral kingdom, and traces of it have been found in the ash^g of plants and in mineral Avaters. The salts of manganese may be easily pre- pared in a state of purity by dissolving the precipitated carbonate in the acids. Most of them are soluble, and several are crystal- lizable. Tests. The salts of protoxide of manganese are distinguished as follows;—1. Caustic po- tassa, soda, and ammonia, give white precipi- tates, insoluble in excess, and quickly becoming brown, and, finally, nearly black, on exposure to the air. The presence of sal ammoniac interferes with the operation of these tests.— 2. Ferrocyanide of potassium gives a white precipitate.—3. Sulphuretted hydrogen gives no precipitate in acid solutions, and precipi- tates neutral solutions only imperfectly; but in alkaline solutions it gives a bright, flesh- coloured, insoluble precipitate, which becomes dark brown on exposure to the air.—4. Hydro- sulphuret of ammonia, in neutral solutions, also yields a similar precipitate, which is very characteristic.—5. A compound of manganese fused with borax in the outer flame of the blowpipe gives a bead, which appears of a violet-red colour whilst hot, and upon cooling acquires an amethystine tint; this colour is lost by fusion in the inner flame.—6. Heated upon platinum foil Avith a little carbonate of soda, in the outer flame, it yields a green mass Avhilst hot, which becomes bluish green Avhen cold. Ac'etate of Manganese. Syn. Acetate of PROTOXIDE OF MANGANESE; MaNGANII ACETAS, L. Prep, 1. By neutralizing con- centrated acetic acid with carbonate of manga- nese, and evaporating the solution so that crystals may form. Pure. 2. By mixing a solution of sulphate of man- ganese with a solution of acetate of lime, and filtering and evaporating as before. Prop., Sfc. The crystals, when pure, are of a pale red colour; permanent in the air; soluble in alcohol, and in 3| parts of Avater; and possess an astringent and metallic taste. Pose. 5 to 10 gr., as an alterative, hsomatinic, &c. Car'bonate of Manganese. Syn. Carbonate OF protoxide of manganese ; Manganesii CARDONAS, L. Prep. (Liebig.) Reduce the black oxide of manganese of commerce to fine powder, and after Avashing it in water acidu- lated with hydrochloric acid, dissolve it in strong hydrochloric acid, and evaporate the resulting solution to dryness; dissolve the resi- duum in luater, and add to the solution sufficient carbonate of soda to precipitate all the iron present; digest the mixed precipitate in the remainder of the liquid, filter, add hydrosul- phuret of ammonia Aintil it begins to produce a flesh-coloured precipitate, then filter, and add solution of carbonate of soda as long as a precipitate falls; lastly, well Avash the newly formed carbonate in Avater, and dry it by a gentle heat. 2. By directly precipitating a solution of the chloride with carbonate of soda, and washing and drying the powder, as before. Prop., 8fc, A pale buff or cream-coloured poAvder; insoluble in Avater; freely soluble in acids; exposed to a strong heat, it loses its carbonic acid, absorbs oxygen, and is converted 1| into the red oxide. It is chiefly employed in li the preparation of the other salts of manga- ■ nese. See Chloride {below). 9 Ohio "ride of Manganese. Syn. Proto- 9 CHLORIDE OF MANGANESE, MhRIATE OF M.; 9 Manganesii chloridhm, L. Prep. 1. By j saturating hydrochloric acid with carbonate of | manganese ; the solution is gently concentrated • by evaporation, Avhen crystals may be obtained, I or it is at once evaporated to dryness; in B either case the product must be placed in | warm, dry, stoppered bottles, and preserved | from the air. | 2. From the dark brown residual liquid of j. the process of obtaining chlorine from bin- 1 oxide of manganese and hydrochloric acid; | this liquid is evaporated to dryness, and then i slowly heated to dull redness in an earthen | vessel, with constant stirring, and kept at that 1 temperature for a short time ; the grayish- I looking powder thus obtained is treated with 1 water, and the solution separated from sesqui- 1 oxide of iron and other insoluble matter by ] filtration; if any iron still remains, a little carbonate of manganese is added, and the whole boiled for a few minutes; the filtered solution is then treated as before. This is the least expensive and convenient source of this salt, a as also of the carbonate. Prop., i^c. Rose-coloured tabular crystals; inodorous; very soluble both in water and alcohol; very deliquescent; Avhen gradually heated to fusion, the Avhole of the water is ; expelled, and at a red heat it sloAvly suffers decomposition. Astringent, tonic, hsematinic, * and alterative. Pose. 3 to 10 gr.; in scor- i butic, syphilitic, and certain chronic cutaneous affections; ansemia, chlorosis, &c. Obs. The red solution formed Avhen sesqui- • oxide of manganese is digested in dilute hydro- 4 chloric acid, in the cold, is regarded as SES- ; QHICHLORIDE OF MANGANESE. It is decom- posed by heat. I'odide of Manganese. Syn. Manganesii iodidtjm, L. Prep. By dissolving the car- , bonate in hydriodic acid, and evaporating the filtered liquid in vacuo or out of contact with ■ air. Pose. 1 to 3 gr.; in ansemia, chlorosis, \ &c., occurring in scrofulous subjects. Ox'ides of Manganese. Five different oxides : of manganese, besides manganic acid and PERMANGANIC ACID, are described:— | 1. Protoxide of Manganese. Syn. Green OXIDE OF MANGANESE; MaNGANESII PROT- OXXDHM, L. This compound, having the j