ASPARAGINOUS—ASPHALTIC. 234 and beautifully white crystals are obtained by the first operation.^ An excellent and very economical process. Prop., 4*e. Crystals brilliant, transparent, co- lourless, right rhombic prisms; neutral to test- paper; non-basic; having a faint, cooling, and scarcely nauseous taste; scarcely soluble in cold water; freely soluble in hot water; insoluble in strong alcohol and ether; solution unaffected by alkaline sulphurets, oxalate of ammonia, acetate of lead, or infusion of galls; triturated with quicklime, ammonia is evolved; heated to 212° Fahr. the crystals lose 2 equiv. or 12g of water; heated with water under pres- sure in a closed vessel, or boiled along with an acid or an alkali, or dissolved in a saccha- rine liquid and then submitted to fermenta- tion, it is converted into ammonia and aspar'- Tic ACID; aqueous solutions of asparagine and aspartic acid treated with a current of nitrous acid evolve pure nitrogen, with the forma- tion of MALIC ACID which remains in solution. It was called asparamide under the impression that it is aspartite of ammonia minus 1 atom of water; and malamide, for similar theoretical reasons. Uses. It is sedative and diuretic.—Dose. 1 to 6 gr.; in dropsies, heart-affections, &c. ASPARAGINOUS (-raj'-). Syn. Aspara- gin'eous (-jin'.); Asparag'infs (-raj'-), As- paragin'eus (jin'-), L.; Asparagine, Fr. In botany, applied to the asparagin'ece. In horticul- ture, denoting those vegetables (asparaginous plants) whose tender vernal shoots are eaten like asparagus ; as the common hop-plant, sea- kale, Solomon’s seal, &c. ASPAR'AGUS. [L., Eng.] In botany, a genus of low, spiny plants, with scale-like leaves, many of which are shrubs and climbers, of the nat. ord. Asparagese (DC.; Liliaceae— Lindl.). The following species, which is that best known in England, is, however, an excep- tion to this description, as it is neither climbing nor spinose. Asparagus Officinalis. [Linn.; L.] Syn. Aspar'agtts, Comm'on a., Gard'en a. ; Spar'- AGUS§, SpAR'R0W-GRASS§, SPER'AGEf§ ; AS- PERGE, Fr.; Spargel, Ger. A well-known perennial plant, and one of the oldest and most delicate of our culinary vegetables.— Young shoots, from the underground eyes (turio'nes aspar'agi, L.), the ‘asparagus’ of our tables; diuretic; communicate a peculiar foetid odour to the urine, and, when eaten in excess, occasion bloody urine and accelerate fits of gout; formerly esteemed emmenagogue and aphrodisiac.—Root (ra'dix aspar'agi, L.), properties resemble those of the young shoots, but stronger; one of the ‘five greater aperient roots' (rad'ices aperien'tes qdin"que ma- 1 This use of animal charcoal may also he advantageously extended to the other T’ormulse. Mr. C. G. Williams, in lire’s "Diet. ofJrts, M., ^ il/.,”4th ed., directs the shoots to he used when of “ a length of 2 incheshut some authorities recommend them to he of 9,12, or even 15 inches. The selection must, however, in many cases, depend upon circumstances and convenience. jo"res, L.) of old pharmacy. The tops and roots, though no longer officinal in the British Pharmacopoeias, are both occasionally ein- ployed as popular remedies in dropsy and stone —thefirst being eaten in the usual way at table; and the second, made into an infusion or decoc- tion (^ oz. to the pint), taken adlibitum. . As an article of food asparagus, in modera- I tion, is both wholesome and nutritious. It is cooked by simply boiling it rather quickly until tender, like the other soft green vegetables; and is either served up plain, or on toast with melted butler or sauce Hollandaise in a boat. (Soyer; Rundell.) When very small and green, it is frequently dressed and served like green-peas, the tender portion of each shoot being cut into bits of equal size, and about \-Zrd of an inch long. (Miss Acton.) Choice, 8fc. “ The large grass is generally preferred; although the smaller has the fullest flavour for a dish.” (Soyer.) Unlike other plants, the asparagus officinalis has not produced a single well-marked permanent variety by cultivation.^ Asparagus Petrse'a. [L.] Syn. Rock'-as- | PAR'AGUS ; CORRIJDA; AspAR'AGUS ACUTIPO"- | LiA, L.; CoRRUDE, Fr. Resembles the last in j its general qualities; but is said to contain I more asparagine. j ASPAR'AMIDE (-mid). See Asparagine. ASPAR'TIC acid. Syn. Malam'ic acid; j ACIDUM ASPAR'TICUM, L. ; AciDE ASPAR- > TiQUE, Fr. An acid first obtained, by Plisson, j, from asparagine, by boiling it along with hy- drate of lead or of magnesia. During this process ammonia is evolved, with loss of the elements of amidogen, and absorption of oxy- gen. Its salts are called aspar'tates (Eng., Fr.; aspar'tas, L. sing.). See Asparagine. AS'PEN (-pen). Syn. Asp*, Trem'blino pop'larJ; Pop'dlds trem'ula (Linn.), L.; Tremble, Fr.; Aespe (aspe), &c., Ger. A large tree, of the nat. ord. Amenta- ceae (DC.), not uncommon in the moist woodlands of England, and found native on many of the Scottish mountains. It derives its name from the trembling motion of its leaves, which, owing to the peculiar flattening of the leaf-stalks, are agitated by the slightest impulse of the air. Bark and leaves contain POP'ULINE associated with sal'icine. Both bark and leaves have been used with advantage in strangury and intermittents. ASPHALT' (-fait'). Asphaltum. | ASPHALT'ENE. A peculiar substance which, according to M. Boussingault, forms the prin- cipal portion of asphaltum. It is probably | oxidised petrolene. ASPHALT'IC. Syn. Asphal'ticus, L.; Asphal'tites (or -i'Tis,-trtf'), Gr.; Asphal- TIQUE, Bitdminedx, Fr.; Erdharzig, Erd- pechig, Ger. Containing, resembling, or formed of asphaltum; bituminous. 2 young shoots of polygona'tum (Solomon’s Seal), and others, have been substituted for asparagus.” (Lind- ley’s “ Veg. King.,” 3rd ed., 203.) |