552 ELEMENTS—ELIXIR. 3. (E. Olei TEEEBiifTHiN^, — Copland.) As Confection of Turpentine,—Ph. D. See CONEECTION. Vermifuge Electuary. Syn. Electfaeiu-m ANTHELMINTICUM, E. VEEMIEUaUM, L. - Trep. 1. (Bresmer.) Worm-seed and tansy-seed, of each, 4 dr.; powdered valerian root,- 2 dr.; jalap and sulphate of potassa, of each, to 2 dr.; oxymel of squills, q. s. to mix. Dose. A teaspoonful, or more; repeated night and morning, followed by a brisk purge. 2. (Rosenstein.) Wortn-seed, 10 gr.; sul- phate of iron, 4 gr.; jalap and honey, of each, 20 gr. For two doses, as the last. 2 or 3 dr. of confection of senna are often substituted for the jalap and honey. 3. (Foy.) Aloes, -3- oz.; common salt, 3 dr.; flour, 2 oz.; honey, q. s. to form a stiff paste. Used as a suppository in ascarides. ^ 4. Flowers of sulphur, 4 oz.; powdered jalap, 1 oz.; powdered hark, 1 oz.; syrup of buckthorn, q. s. Dose. Two or three tea* spoonfuls every morning early. See Con- EECTiON and Electfaey of Tin, Tfefen- TINE, WOEM-SEED, &C. , Electuary for ' Worms. See Veemifuge Electfaey {above). EL'EMENTS. Syn. ElementaEy bodies. Simple b. ; Elementa, L.' In chemistry, those substances or bodies which \\2iy& hitherto resisted every attempt which has been made to decompose them, or to resolve them into simpler forms of matter. Eaeth, aie, fiee, and WATEE, were regarded by the ancients as simple bodies, of which all others are com- posed, and they still constitute the ^four elements’ of the vulgar. The imaginary prin- ciples or elements of the alchemists were termed SALT, SULPHUE, and MEECUEY. About sixty different kinds of matter are at present recog- nized as elementary bodies. They are sub- stances having the most diverse characters. The great majority exist in the solid state; BEOMINE and MEECUEY are liquid; while OXYGEN, HYDEOGEN,NITEOGEN,and CHLOEINE, are gaseous. About four fifths of the elements are metallic, as instanced by gold, silvee, COPPEE, lEON, &c.; the remainder are non- metallic, as instanced by caebon, sulphue, PHOSPHOEUS, &c. A list of the known ele- ments is given under the head of Equivalents (which see). EL'EMI. Syn. Gum elemi; Elemi (Ph. L.). “A terebinthinate concretion, from an uncertain plant.” (Ph. L.) Mexican elemi is known to be the produce of a species of the genus Elaphrium. Manilla elemi is probably the product of Canarium commune. Prop., (^c. The elemi of commerce is of a pale-yellow colour, brittle without, but soft and tough within; it has a warm bitter taste, and a fragrant aromatic smell, partaking of fennel and juniper. It is only partially trans- parent even in thin plates, is very fusible, and has a density a little greater than that of water. It contains 12| per cent, of volatile oil {oil of elemi). It is used to give toughne: to lacquers and varnishes, and in medicine i the preparation of elemi ointment. . Pur. The elemi of the shops is often adul- terated, but more frequently a factitious kind / is sold for the genuine gum. This fraud may be detected by exposing the suspected article to heat, along with a little water, when the factitious fragrance of the spurious article evaporates, and the coarse terebinthinate smell of the .resin used to adulterate it, or which is sold for it, becomes readily distinguishable. FactP'tious Elemi. Prep. 1* Yellow resin, 8 lb.; melt, add Canada balsam, 2 lb.; with- draw the vessel from the heat, and further add of oil of juniper, 2 dr.; oil of sweet fennel 1 dr.; oil of nutmeg, 4 dr. > 2.^ Yellow resin, 7 lb.; Canada balsam, 1 lb.; juniper'Oil bottoms, 4 dr.; oil of mace, 3 dr.; mix as before. EL'EMINE. The crystalline resin of gum elemi. - ELEPHANTI'ASIS. Syn. Elephantiasis Ge.®coeum, L. '-'A disease which chiefly attacks the lower extremities, which become rough, scaly, hard, and -ultimately the skin gets thick, unctuous, and insensible, and the limb gradually becomes enormously swollen. In some cases the forehead,, cheeks, &c., grow hard and tumid, or become covered with enor- mous '^tubercles, until the countenance re- sembles, that of a satyr or wild beast (satye- lASis, leontiasis). It is presumed to have formed one of the varieties of lepeosy that afflicted the inhabitants of Europe during the middle ages. It is now chiefly confined to Africa, the East and West Indies, Madeira, and the Isle of France. No cure is known. In its early stages, however, the use of the Asclepias giyantea, in combination with alte- rative doses of calomel and antimony, with topical stimulants, is said to he generally sue- cessful. (Mr. Robinson.) ELIXTR. In pharmacy, a name formerly applied to various compound tinctures, and to preparations supposed to contain the quintes- sence of other substances. (It is still applied to several popular remedies.) The elixirs ol the alchemists were solutions employed in their fruitless attempts to transmute the baser metals into gold. Add Elixir. Syn. Elixie acidum, L. Prep. 1. (Dippell’s.) Sulphuric acid, 1 part, dropped gradually into rectified spirit of wine, 5 parts; placed in a large flask, and afterwards coloured by digestion on animal kermes and saffron, of each, 1 part. 2. (Haller’s,—Ph. Sax., 1837.) From sul-^^^ phuric acid and rectified spirit, of each, 1 part as before. 3. (Vogler’s.) From sulphuric acid andVjj nitrous ether, equal parts, as above. Astrin- | gent and antiseptic. Dose. A few drops, in water. Elixir of Al'oes. Syn. Compound tinctuee OF ALOES; Elixie aloes, L. See Tinctuee.