COLIC—COLLODION. 466 head of Cosmetic Ceeate (which see). The following produces a superior article. Prep. (Dr. L. Turnbull.) From white wax, 1 oz.; oit of almonds, 4 oz.; rose-water, 2 oz.; borax, ^ dr.; oil of roses, 5 drops. Melt, and dissolve the wax in the oil of almonds by a gentle heat; dissolve the borax in the rose- water, which is then to be warmed a little and added to the heated oil; lastly, add the oil of roses, stirring. COLTC. Syn. ColTca, L. The belly-ache or gripes. The name is popularly given to all severe griping abdominal pains, without refe- rence to the cause. There are several varieties of this disease, as noticed below. Accident'al Colic. Produced by improper food and poisons. The treatment may be similar to that recommended for bilious or flatulent colic. Bil 'ious Colic. In this variety the pain is intermittent and transient, accompanied by constipation, nausea, and vomiting. The fseces, if any, are bilious, dark-coloured, and offensive. The common remedies are, a full dose of blue pill, calomel, colocynth, or aloes, followed by a sufficient quantity of Epsom salts or GlaubePs salts. Warm fomentations are also serviceable. Flat'ulent Colic. Marked by constipation, and the irregular distension of the bowels by gas, accompanied by a rumbling noise, &c. It is commonly produced by the use of indi- gestible vegetables and slops. The remedies are, a full dose of tincture of rhubarb combined with a few drops of essence of peppermint. If this does not afford relief, an Abernethy pill may be taken, washed down with a glass of any cordial water, as peppermint, cinnamon, or caraway. When the pain is extreme, warm fomentations to the belly, or a carminative clyster, will generally give relief. Paint'er’s Colic. Syn. Pltjmb'ee’s colic, Devonshiee c.. Lead c.; Col'ica picto'num, L. The dry belly-ache. It is marked by ob- stinate costiveness, acrid bilious vomitings, violent pains about the region of the navel, convulsive spasms in the intestines, and a ten- dency to paralysis in the extremities. It is most prevalent in the cider counties, and amongst persons exposed to the fumes of lead. The remedies are the same as for the spasmodic variety. Should these fail, after the bowels have been thoroughly evacuated, small doses of camphor and opium may be administered, and sulphuric beer or sweetened water very slightly acidulated with sulphuric acid, had recourse to as a beverage. Mr. Benson, the managing director of the British White-lead Works at Birmingham, saysAlthough during several weeks after the addition of the sulphuric acid to the treacle beer, drank at the works, little advantage seemed to be derived, yet the cases of lead colic became gradually less frequent, and since October of that year, or during a period of fifteen months, hot a single case of lead colic has occurred j amongst the people.” {Lancet.) See Sul- PHUEic Beee and Sulphueic Acid. Spasmodic Colic. Marked by a fluctuating pain about the navel, which goes away and returns by starts, often leaving the patient for some time. The belly is usually soft, and the intestines may often be felt in lumps, ’which move about under the hand, or are wholly absent for a time. It is unaccom- panied by flatulency. The remedies are warm fomentations, warm clysters, and carminatives, accompanied by small doses of camphor and opium. Stercora'ceous Colic. Marked by severe griping pains and constipation of the bowels. The remedies are powerful cathartics, as full doses of calomel, aloes, colocynth, jalap, &c., followed by purgative salts, as sulphate of mag- nesia, or sulphate of soda. COLLO'DION. Syn. Collo'diem. A viscid fluid formed by dissolving pteoxtline (Schon- bein's gen cotton) in a mixture of ether and alcohol. In surgery, it is used in its natural state, and combined with certain elastic and medicinal substances. In photo- graphy, it is used in combination with agents that render it sensitive to the action of light. Collodion. Syn. Plain collodion. The following are the best methods of preparing plain collodion for surgical purposes: — Prep. 1. (Ph. U. S.) Nitrate of potassa, in powder, 10 oz.; sulphuric acid, 8|- fl. oz.; triturate together in a wedgwood mortar until uniformly mixed; then add of flne carded cotton (free from impurities), ^ oz.; and by means of the pestle or a glass rod, saturate it thoroughly with the liquor for a period of about 3 or 4 minutes; next transfer the cotton to a vessel containing water, and wash it in successive portions of pure water, with agitation and pressure, until the wash- ings cease to affect litmus paper or a solution of chloride of barium; it is then to be spread out and dried by a very gentle heat, and dissolved by agitation in a stoppered bottle with rectified sulphuric ether, 1 quart, to which rectified spirit (alcohol), 1 fl. oz., has been previously added. 2. (Mialhe.) Nitrate of potassa, 40 parts; concentrated sulphuric acid, 60 parts; carded cotton, 2 parts; proceed as last until the dry cotton is obtained, then take of the prepared cotton, 8 parts; rectified sulphuric ether, 125 parts; mix in a well-stoppered bottle, and agitate it for some minutes; then add, gradually, rectified alcohol, 1 part; and con- tinue to shake until the whole of the liquid acquires a syrupy consistency. It may be now passed through a cloth; but a better way to prevent loss is to let it repose for a few days, and then decant the clear portion. 3. (Lauras.) This process only differs from No. 2 in the following particulars:—The cotton is immersed for 12 minutes, then rinsed 2 or 3 times in cold water, and afterwards immersed in a solution of subcarbonate of potassa, 4 parts,