BAROMETER. 269 : ception of the ‘ aneroid b./ is the same in each, and essentially consists of a column of fluid I (usually mercury) supported ‘in vacuo,’ in a i glass-tube, by the pressure of the atmosphere on its surface. The annexed engr. exhibits the I principal varieties at present known ; several ' of which have been proposed with the view of improving the original instrument, either by I increasing its range, or its portability. None, however, equal in simplicity, cheapness, and I usefulness, the old forms proposed by Torri- celli, and repr. by the fig. 1 & 2. To avoid ; confusion, the graduated scales and cases of the i instruments are not shewn. The construction of a barometer requires the I utmost skill and care of a practised artist, and ! will therefore be seldom undertaken by the ; amateur or experimentalist—a fact which renders it unnecessary for us to enter into the details here. In the choice of his instrument, ; the purchaser must greatly depend on the ' known experience and integrity of the manu- , facturer; as nothing but lengthened use, and frequent comparisons with other instruments, I can possibly prove its excellence. An ordinary I barometer, however carefully made, is found ! to suffer gradual deterioration, from the exter- nal air insinuating itself between the mercury i and the glass tube, by which the perfection of { the vacuum is destroyed. Various plans have I been proposed to remedy this inconvenience i and source of error. Prof. Daniels forms the , bottom part of the tube, to the extent of about ; ^rd of an inch, of solid platinum, welded to ' the glass. This plan has proved ‘ completely ' satisfactory.’ Dr. Ure proposes the use of platinum-foil for the same purpose. Before j purchasing an instrument it is as well to ascer- I tain that this^ has been done. In those called i ‘ STANDAKD BAEOMETEES ’ the scale is movable 1 and adjustable by a delicate screw, so as to enable the observer to bring the lower point or zero (0) of the scale coincident with the j surface of the mercury in the ‘ cistern.’ Exact contact is readily effected by making the ‘point,’ and its ‘image’ as seen by reflection from the surface of the mercury, to coincide. In this case the cistern is made of glass. Pro- vided the ivory-scale be connected with the i zero-point with a strip of brass, ‘ correction as to temperature ’ is very nearly effected by this simple adjustment. The wheel-baeometee is chiefly serviceable as a domestic or land ' weather-glass. Uses, The barometer is employed for ascertaining the amount of atmosphericalrefrac- ' Hon in astronomical calculations, and in mea- suring altitudes, and in prognosticating the weather. For the last purpose, on land, it sometimes proves a false prophet; but at sea, according to Dr. Arnot, its inonitions are i highly trustworthy.^ As a mere weather-glass, the indications, as read off from the scale of I the instrument, are generally sufficiently accu- rate i but in all observations connected with 1 ‘^Elem. Nat. Phil," i. 353. meteorology, altitudes, astronomy, &c., certain corrections must be made; the height of the mercury being influenced both by the size of the tube and by the temperature of the air by whicih it is surrounded, as well as by varia- tions in the weight or pressure of the atmo- sphere. (See below.) Barometrical Corrections:— 1. As to CAPILLAEITY:—This applies to all cistern-baroyneters formed of tubes of very sinall diameters, owing to the mercury assum- ing a convex surface in the tube. As the tube increases in diameter, so the ‘ depression ’ of the mercury lessens. Hence, “ the interior diameter ” of a barometer “ should, in every case, exceed one-fourth of an inch.” (Brande.) Syphon barometers that have each of their legs of equal size, require no correction, as the depression is equal at both ends. Table of Bay'ometrical Corrections for CAPILLAEITY,//'Om the ‘Encycl. Brit.’ Diam. of Tube. Depression. *10 inch. •1403 inch. + •15 „ •0863 „ •20 „ •0581 „ •25 „ •0407 „ •30 „ •0292 „ •35 „ •0211 „ •40 „ •0153 „ •45 „ •0112 „ •50 „ •0083 „ •60 „ •0044 „ •70 „ •0023 „ •80 „ •0012 „ 2. As to TEMPEEATIJEE :—These depend on the expansion of the ‘mercury,’ and of the ‘ scale ’ on which the divisions are marked. The Ryde for reducing an ‘ observed height ’ to the corresponding height at the freezing point, or 32° Fahr., the usual ‘standard tem- perature,’ is—SuBTEACT 1-10000th part of the observed height of the barometer for eveyy degree of Fahr. above 32° at the lime of the observation. Or— {obs. t.—32) X obs. h. X *0001 = corr. req. An'eroid Barometer. An instrument in- vented, or at least perfected, by M. Vidi, of Paris, in which the pressure of the atmosphere is measured without the employment of a fluid, as in tlie ordinary barometerExternally, it somewhat resembles in appearance a carriage clock or a ship’s chronometer ; internally, it 2 x\.u instrument founded on the same principle, and of nearly similar construction, was described by M. C<mt^, in 1798, in the"Bull des Sci. Nat.," t. i., No. xiii., p. 106.