1317 VINOUS FERMENTATION. 1! Fremy, Rousseau, and others, the essential con- i| dition of a ferment, to he able to excite the (, pure vinous fermentation, is to be sufficiently ij acidulous to act on coloured test-paper; and I this acidity should arise from the presence of * certain vegetable acids and salts, capable of <1 conversion into carbonic acid and carbonates || by their spontaneous decomposition. Those lj acids and salts which are found to pre-exist in j fermentable fruits and liquors, as the tartaric, citric, malic, and lactic acids, and their salts, should be chosen for this purpose j preference *1 being given to the bitartrate of potassa, on jj account of its presence in the grape. The ad- I dition of any of these substances to a sacch- II arine solution renders its fermentation both II more active and complete. The favourable influence of cream of tartar on fermentation it was first pointed out by Thenard and Colin, r and the addition of a little of this article has i been adopted in practice, with manifest 3 advantage, by the manufacturers of British wine. There is good reason for supposing that li eacA variety of sugar which is susceptible of the alcoholic fermentation is first converted I into GEAPE STJGAE, by contact with the fer- ; ment, and that this variety of sugar is alone 11 capable of yielding carbonic acid and alcohol. (See 61.) The circumstances most favourable to this fermentation are, a certain degree of warmth ' —a sufficient quantity of active ferment, and ' its due distribution through the liquor. The temperature of from 68® to 77° Fahr. is usually regarded as the most propitious for the com- ' mencement and progress of fermentation; but ! it has been ably shown by Liebig that, at this temperature, the newly formed alcohol I slowly undergoes the ‘ acetous fermentation,’ j forming vinegae, by which the vinous cha- i racter of the liquor is lessened. This con- version of alcohol into vinegar proceeds most j rapidly at a temperature of 95° Fahr., and ; gradually becomes more languid, until, at ' about 46° to 50° Fahr. (8 to 10 Cent.), it ceases I altogether, while the tendency of the nitro- '! genous substances to absorb oxygen at this \ low temperature is scarcely diminished in a j perceptible degree. “ It is therefore evident 4 that if wort (or any other saccharine solution) ;| is fermented in wide, open, shallow vessels, ; as is done in Bavaria, which afibrd free and I unlimited access to the atmospheric oxygen, and this in a situation where the temperature does not exceed 46° to 50° Fahr., a separation of the nitrogenous constituents, i. e. the ex- II citers of acidification, takes place simulta- I neously on the surface, and within the whole I body of the liquid.” (Liebig.) By this me- I thod wine or beer is obtained, which is inva. i riably far superior in quality to that fermented I in the usual manner. 'i| The symptoms of a perfect fermentation of jj malt wort, according to the usual English i| system with top yeast {oberhefe), have been lj thus described by a well-known practical ii writer on brewing;—1. A cream-like substance forms round the edges of the gyle tun, which gradually extends itself, and ultimately covers the whole surface of the liquor.—2. A fine curly or cauliflower head in a similar way extends itself over the surface, and indicates to the experienced brewer the probable quality of the fermentation.—3. The ^stomach,’ or vinous odour, is next evolved, and continues to increase with the attenuation of the wort. The peculiar nature of this odour is also an indication of the state of the fermentation.— 4. The cauliflower head changes, or rises to a fine ‘ rocky ’ or ‘ yeasty ’ head, and ultimately falls down.—5. In this stage the head assumes a peculiar yeasty appearance, called by brewers ‘ close-yeasty,’ and the gas is evolved in suffi- cient quantity to-blow up little ^bells’ or ‘ bladders’ which immediately burst, and are followed by others, at intervals depending on the activity and forwardness of the fermen- tation. These should be bright and clear; as, if they appear opaque or dirty, there is something the matter with the wort. (Black.) • It •' is often of the utmost importance to brewers, wine-merchants, sugar-refiners, drug- gists, &c., to be able to lessen the activity of the vinous fermentation, or to stop it altogether, or to prevent its accession to syrups and other saccharine and vegetable solutions. Whatever will still, the motion of the molecules of the nitrogenous matter forming the ferment will render them inoperative as exciters of fermen- tation. Among the simplest means of effecting this object, and such as admit of easy practical application, may' be mentioned exposure to either cold or heat. At a temperature below about 50° Fahr. the acetous fermentation is suspended, and the alcoholic fermentation pro- ceeds with diminished activity as the tem- perature falls, until at about 38° Fahr. it ceases altogether. In like manner, the rapid increase of the temperature of a fermenting liquid arrests its fermentation, and is preferable to the action of cold, as it is of easier appli- cation, and perfectly precipitates the ferment in an inert state. For this purpose, a heat of about 180° Fahr. is sufficient; but even that of boiling wafer may be employed with advan- tage. In practice, fluids are commonly raised to their boiling-point for this purpose, or they are submitted to the heat of a water bath (207^° Fahr.). In this way the fermentation of syrups and vegetable solutions and juices is commonly arrested in the pharmaceutical laboratory. Among substances that may be added to liquids to arrest fermentation, the most active are—-the volatile oil of mustard, coarsely pow- dered mustard seed or pure flour of mustard, sulphurous acid or t\ve fumes of burning sulphur, sulphuric acid, sulphite of lime, tincture of catechu, strong spirit, strong acetic acid, chlo- rate of potassa, sugar of milk, bruised horse- radish, garlic, and cloves, and their essential oils, and all the other volatile oils that contain