AMALGAM.VTED-AMAUKOSIS. 132 AMAL'GAMATED. Si/n. Amalgama^tus, L.; Amalgajie, Fr. Compounded or blended with quicksilver; formed into an amalgam. AMALGAMA'TION. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Amal- gama'tio, L.; VEEQGiCKEAq Ger. The act or process by which an amalgam is formed; hence loosely, the mixing or blending of dif- ferent things. In the art of (he refiner, the operation of separating gold and silver from their ‘ ores ’ by means of mercury. AMAL'IC ACID. A svibstance discovered by Rochleder, and formed by the action of chlorine on caffeine. It possesses only feeble acid properties, and is homologous to alloxantin. Treated with oxidising agents it yields ciio- LESTEOPHANE; and when treated with am- monia, CAEPEINE-MUEEXIDE. It pOSSeSSes 110 practical interest. See Caefeixe. AM'AITDIKE (-dene). Prep. 1. (Trans- parent.)—a. Fine new white or pale honey, 4 oz.; white soft-soap (prepared from ‘lard’ and ‘potassa’), 2 oz.; mix thoroughly in a marble mortar, adding 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls (if neces- sary) of liquor of potassa, until a perfectly homogeneous paste or cream is produced; then rub in, by degrees, and very gradually, of oil of almonds, 7 lb. (or q. s.), previously mixed with essential oil of almonds, 1 oz.; essence (oil) of bergamot, | oz.; oil of cloves, | oz.; and balsam of Peru, 3 dr. The product, which should have a rich, transparent, jelly-like appearance and be- haviour, is, lastly; put into pots for use or sale. b. (G. W. S. Piesse.) Simple syrup, 4 oz.; white soft-soapi (see above), 1 oz.; oil of almonds, 7 lb. (previously scented with—); essential oil of almonds and bergamot, of each, 1 oz.; oil of cloves, oz.; the whole being mixed, &c., as before. Both the above are of very line quality. Glycerine, in the proportion of about oz. to each lb. of the products, added with the soap, improves their softening quality. 2. (Opaque.)—a. From white potash-soap and gum-mucilage (thick), of each, 3 oz.; new white honey, 6 oz.; and the yelks of 5 large eggs; well mixed together, and afterwards intimately blended first, with oil of almonds (scented as before, or at will), 2 lb. ; and after- wards, with thick pistachio-milk (made of the ‘fresh-peeled nuts’ and ‘rose-water’), 5y?. oz. b. From almond-paste, honey, white potash- soap, and glycerine, of eacli, 1 oz.; yelk of 1 egg ; oil of almonds, | pint (holding in solution —); essential oil of almonds, 1 dr.; balsam of Peru, i dr. Uses, Sfc. To vhiten and soften the skin, and to prevent it chapping. A small portion about half the size of a tilbert, with a few drops of warm water, produces a very white and rich lather, with which the hands and face are lightly rubbed, and the skin, in a short time, gently vviped with a soft napkin, whilst the water on it is still milky. The manufacture of AiiAXDiXE is a matter of some difficulty and labour. The details essential to success, are given under Emul- siXFS. It is sometimes coloured, which is done* by infusing or dissolving in the oil, before using it, a little—spinach-leaves, for GEEEE; and palm-oil, cr annatto, for yellow and OEANGE. A beautiful scaelet or ceimsox tinge may be given to it by ‘a little liquid rouge or carmine (ammoniacal), added just before removing it from the mortar. See Eyiulsixes, Olivine, Pastes, Ac. AMANPTA MUSCA'^EIA. The Hy-agaric or ily-mushrooin. See Agaeic. AMAUTTIIIE (-tin). Syn. AmanFtina, L. The name given by I.;eteliier to the poisonous principle of amani'la muscaria, and some other species of fungi. It is brown, uncrystallisable, and soluble. AMA"EA. (-mare'-) [L.]. In medicine and pharmacology, the bitter tonics. AM'AEAEIH. Syn. Amarantu'us, L.; Amaeante, Fr. The tiower love-lies-bleeding (‘amaranthus caudaTus’—Linn.). In poetry, an imaginary flower that never fades. (Milton.) In chromatics, a colour inclining to purple. AMA"EIifE (-in). Syn. Ayiaei'na, L. A name formerly given to the ‘bitter principle’ of several vegetables, and recently to ben- zoline. See Amaea. AMARYTH'EINE (-iith'-rin). A bitter principle found, in certain lichens, associated with erythrine (which see). AMATEUS' (am-ii-tare'j as us. heard in Eng. mouths). [Fr.] In the fine arts, 6;c., one who cultivates a study or art from taste cr attachment, and not professionally or for gain. AMAUDO'SIS (am-aw-rb'-sis. [L.; prim., Gr.] AS'yn. .Gutt'a Seeena*, L.; Amaueosj:, ' Fr.; Amaueose, Sciiwaetze staae, Ger. - Diminution, or total loss of sight, supposed to arise from paralysis, either partial or comjdctc, of the retina or the optic nerve, or of that part of the brain with Avhich the oj/tic nerve is connected. In general there is no visible defect of the eye, except immobility of the iris, ami dilation of the pupil; the last being often , irregular, oval, or pear-shaped. These arc. , how^ever, only observable on close inspection; , and were it not for the peculiar stare, unal tered by change of light, which usually atteiul this affection, it would generally escape tlu j notice of ordinary observcis. It is eitlici j periodic Qv permanent; and is sometimes com- | plicated with cataracd. It is the ‘ drop serene, so feelingly alluded to by Milton. Causes. These are numerous and various It may depend on inflammatory or other change of the retina or of the vascular tissues in close proximity to it, or of the optic nerve, in an> part of its course, or of the brain. Or it may b; the result of undue pressure consequent oi congestion, or on the presence of tumours ii the orbit or cranium; or from distant irrita tion of the extreme nerves, as in constipation hysteria, indigestion, pregnancy, worms, &c Over-exertion of the sight; the habit of usinf only one eye; exposure to intense light; blow- on the eyeball or head; forced exertion whils stooping the head (particularly in the plethori