120 alum. ]nos]>liei‘ic oxygen into sulphuric acid, which (,‘omhines partly with the iron (also oxidised by i:he air), and partly with the alumina. The sulphate of iron is mostly got rid of by con- centrating the soliition of the mixed sulphates, and the mother liquors are converted into alum by the addition of the salt of potassa. When chloride of potassium is used, it yields chloride of iron and sulphate of potash; the latter combining with the sulphate of alumina, and the former remaining behind in the mother- liquor. Good alum-stone contains all the elements of alum mixed with other matter; whereas alum schist and slate only contain two of them—viz., clay and sulphur. These the alum-maker converts into sulphate of alumina, and subsequently into alum, by adding the necessary proportion of alkaline matter. See Alums (in Chemistry.) Comp. Pure potash-alum contains of— Alumina, 10-94g; potash, 9’89^; sulphuric acid, 33*685; water, 45*49^. Or— Atoms. Eg. wt. Per cent. Sulphate of alumina . 1 . 172 . 36*21 Sulphate of potassa . 1 . 87 . 18*31 Water 24 . 216 . 45*48 Crystallised potash- \ alum . . . f ^ Prop. Alum crystallises in regular octahe- drons, often with truncated edges and angles; {seeengr.;) and sometimes in cubes, but only when there is a deficiency of acid in its composition, 7 with the alkali in slight ex- cess of the proper quantity. (Lowel.) ^ It is slightly efflorescent in dry air; .soluble in 18 parts of cold water, and in rather less than its own weight of boiling water; tastes sweet, acidulous, and very astringent; is. styptic; and reddens litmus. When heated it melts, loses its water of crys- tallisation, and becomes white and spongy (buent alum) ; a strong heat, short of whiteness, decomposes it, with the evolution of oxygen and a mixture of sulphuric and sulphurous acid (spieit op ALUMf, aluminTc ACiDf); calcined with carbonaceous matter it suffers decomposition, and furnishes a pyro- phoric residuum (Hombeeg’s pteoph'oeus). Ignited wuth alkaline chlorides, hydrochloric acid is liberated; which also occurs when their concentrated solutions are boiled to- gether. Ammonia precipitates pure alumina from potash-alum; but only a subsulphate from the simple sulphate of alumina. Sp. gr., 1*724; but, when containing ammonia, often so low as 1*710. 1 The ordinary alum, of commerce, consists of larjje ciystalline masses, whicli do not present any regular geometrical form; but by immersion in water lor a few days, octahedral and rectanguhar forms are developed on its surface. (Daniell.) Tests^ (^*c. It is easily recognised by its crystalline form, and its taste; as also by its other properties noticed above and below. It may also be tested for its individual consti- tuents (which see). Pur. When pure its solution is not affected by tincture of galls, sulphuretted hydrogen, ferrocyanide of potassium, nor solution of nitrate of silver. Heated with caustic potassa, or quick-lime, it does not evolve fumes of ammonia. “ It is entirely soluble in water. From the solution, ammonia or potassa, when added, precipitates alumina free from colour, which again dissolves when the potassa is added in excess.” (Ph. L.) Adult., 8fc. The principal impurity, and one | which renders alum unfit for the use of the dyer, | is ferrosulphate of potassa ; but iron in any i other shape is equally injurious. .This may be 1 readily detected by the blue, black, or brown precipitates it gives with the above tests; and particularly by ferrocyanide of potassium or hydrosulphuret of ammonia, which are very delicate tests.^ Lime, another very injurious contamination, may be detected by precipi- tating the alumina and iron (if any) with ammonia, and then adding oxalate of ammonia to the boiled and filtered liquid. The liquid filtered from the last precipitate (oxalate of lime) may still contain magnesia, which may be detected by the white precipitate caused on the addition of an alkaline phosphate. Common alum frequently contains ammonia, from urine, or the crude sulphate of the gas- works, having been employed in its manu- facture. Powdered alum is frequently adul- ' terated with common salt, in which case it gives a white curdy precipitate with nitrate of silver, turning black by exposure to the light. Phys. eff., 8(C. In small quantities alum acts as an astringent; in larger doses, as an irritant. It acts chemically on the animal tissues and fluids, is absorbed, and has been discovered in the liver, spleen, and urine (Orfila), the last often becoming acid (Kraus). Externally, it is astringent. The almost general use of alum, by the English bakers, is one of the most fertile sources of dyspepsia, and liver and bowel complaints, in adults; and of debility and rickets in children. Bad teeth and their early decay, is another conse- quence of the daily use of alum in our food. The bone matter {phosphate of lime) of bread, instead of being assimilated with the system, is either wholly, or in part, converted into a salt of alumina, which is useless and incapable of appropriation. When alum has been taken in poisonous doses an emetic should be given, followed by warm diluents and demulcents containing a little carbonate of soda; and subsequently, by a purgative. 2 Good English alum contains less tlian 0T% of iron. The best Roman or Italian alums seldom contain more l than *005% of irou-aluin, notwithstanding tlieir exterior ! colour. ;