1308 VENISON—VERATRINE. arm, by grasping a stick or moving the fingers. “ After a sufficient quantity of blood has been drawn, the flow is to he stopped by re- moving the ligatnre and placing a finger on the orifice, when any blood that has soiled the arm is to he wiped off, and the edges of the orifice carefully brought together, that they naay unite by the first intention. To accom- plish this, let the bleeder, with the thumb of that hand which holds the arm, push the skin towards the orifice, while he draws it on the other side to the same point with the com- press j, thus the skin will be thrown into folds at the wound, over which he is immediately to apply the compr-ess, which should be broad, to keep the skin hotter together, and thick, to make the compression more certain^ “The.%fl!^Mre for tying the arm, so,as to obstruct the flow ,of blood in the vfiins below it, should be a soft old ribbon ; aud the same may be employed for securing the pledget over the .orifice, when the flow of the blood is to be stopped. The pledget, or compress, should be a piece of linen folded into a square form, abovit an inch in diameter; and comprehending three or four thicknesses of the material. It is always proper to use a graduated basin for receiving the blood, that the exact quantity drawn may be ascertained. If the invalid be bled, .in bed, he should sit erect; if he be up, he should be placed erect in a chair.(Dr, R. E. Griffith.) VEN'ISON. The flesh of several species of deer. That from good land, killed at the proper season, and eaten in a moderately fresh state, is most easily digestible, ,and, perhaps, the most wholesome, of all the red meats ; but when it is * high,’ or in a state of incipient pu- trefaction, it is far from wholesome, and often poisonous. VEND BENO (La). See Tea. VENTILA'TION. The proper ventilation of our habitations, as well as of other buildings in which we pass any considerable portion of our time, is quite as necessary to health as food and clothing. Lavoisier, writing in the middle of the last century, remarks—“ It is certain that mankind degenerate when em- ployed in sedentary manufactures, or living in crowded houses, or in the narrow lanes of large cities ; whereas they improve in their nature and constitution in most ,of the country la- .bours which are carried on in the open air.’^ Yet many persons, by the care which they take to shut out fresh air, and to prevent the escape of that which their own bodies, by pulmonary and surfacial respiration,have contaminated, would seem to hug to themselves the discom- fort of breathing over and over again an im- pure and unrefreshing atmosphere, and to be anxious to finish their career by lingering suicide. The almost universal indifference to the subject, considering its importance, is un- accountable. The first step towards effecting and main- taining a liberal supply of fresh air, is either by means of ventilators or by regularly open- ing the windows for stated periods daily. During the colder portion of the year, when fires are kept burning, and there is an up- current in the chimney, nothing is so simple and effective as the well-known chimney-valve of Dr. Arnottj and, indeed, without this, open fires are powerful instruments of venti- lation. In cold weather, where expense is not an object, the apartments may be supplied with air that has been previously warmed by passing through a heated chamber, on the principle recommended by Dr. Reid; but care must be taken that, in warming the air, we do not over-heat it, nor contaminate it. A sufficient supply of light, another powerful sanitary agent, is now regarded as nearly as essential as thorough ventilation, and the two are commonly treated of together. According to Palladio, tho opening of windows should not ePceed a fourth, nor be less than a fifth, of the length of the side of a room, and should be in height two and one sixth times the width. Mr. Gwilt, another high authority on this sub- ject, has given as a definite rule, that we should allow 1 square foot of glass to every 100 cubic feet qf space in any apartment or enclosure. A great deal must, however, depend on the shape of the apartmentbut, in all cases, care should be taken that the windows are placed at the longest side of the room, and not at the narrowest, or the end of it. A southern aspect affords the most, light i and heat; a northern one, the most diffused and least variable light, and. is hence usually chosen by artists for their studios. < VERA'TRINE. Syn. Veeateia, Veeateina, Sabadilline ; Veeateia (Ph. L. & E.), L. An alkaloid discovered by Pelletier and Ca- ventou, in the seeds of Asagrcea officinalis (sabadilla), and..in the rhizomes of Veratrum album (white hellebore). Prep. 1. (Ph. E.) Digest sabadilla seeds in boiling water for 24 hours, then squeeze them, dry them thoroughly by a gentle heat, beat them in a mortar, and separate the seeds from the capsules by agitation in a deep and narrow vessel; next grind the seeds in a coffee-mill, and exhaust them by percolation with rectified spirit; concentrate the resulting tincture by distillation so long as no deposit forms, and pour the residuum, whilst still hot, into 12 times its volume of cold water ; then filter through calico, and wash the residuum on the filter as long as the washings yield a precipitate with ammonia; unite the filtered liquid with the washings, add ammonia in ex- cess, collect the precipitate on a filter, wash it slightly with cold water, and dry it first by imbibition with filtering paper, and then in the vapour bath. “ The product is not pure, but sufficiently so for medical use. From this coloured substance it may be obtained white, but at considerable loss, by solution in very weak hydrochloric acid, decolorization with