BATH-PIPE—BEAD. 286 2. Fine Irass, 32 parts; spelter, 9 parts. See Bkass and Allots. BATH PIPE. See Pipe. BATHS and WASK'-HOUSES. See Bath (jw. 277-8). BATT'EE. Ingredients beaten together so as to form a semi-fluid mass. In cookery, a semi-fluid paste, which becomes hard in ‘ dress- ing,’ formed of flour, and milk or water, or a mixture of them, enriched and flavoured with eggs, butter, and (frequently) spices, currants, Ac., at will. Used for frying vegetables, fil- lets, &c., and as a material for fritters and pancakes; also to form puddings, which are either baked alone, or under meat; and to cover various articles during the operation of cooking them. Miss Acton gives the fol- lowing formula):^—1. (For the Frying-pan.) Butter, 2 oz. ; boiling-water, (nearly) ^ pint; mix, and stir in, gradually, of cold water, f pint j when quite smooth, mix it by degrees, very smoothly with fine dry flour, f lb,; add- ing (for ‘ fruit ’) a S7nall pinch of salt (but more for ‘ meat ’ or ‘ vegetables’) ; just before use, stir in the luhites of two eggs (or the white and yelk of one—Ed.), and fry until light and crisp. [In ‘ humble cookery,’ the eggs may be omitted—Ed.] 2. (For Puddings.) Eggs (yelk and white), about 4 in no.; flour, ^ lb.; tnilk, q. s. Obs. AYhen fruit, ^’c., are added, the batter must be made thicker than when none is used, to prevent it sinking. AYlien sufliciently dressed it should ‘ cut smoothly,’ andnot ‘ stick to the knife.’ Eggs increase its firmness. BATT'EBY. In frictional elecMcity, a series of Leyden jars so arranged as to admit of being charged and discharged together. See Elec- TKICITY, Ac. Battery. In electro-chemistry, galvanism, Sjc., a pair, or series of pairs, of ‘ excited ’ metallic plates, so arranged as to act in unison, producing an electrical current by chemical decomposition. See Electeotype, Galya ■s'lSH, Voltaic Electeicttt, Ac. BAUME. [Fr.] Balm; balsam. Baume, Nerval. See Ointments. BAUME (Baume). See Aeeometee. BAY. See Sweet Bay. BDEL'LIUM (del'-yum). The commercial name of two gum-resins :— African Bdellium. Syn. Bdellil'3I Afei- CA'num, L. From the heudola'tia afnca'na (Guillem.), a terebinthaceous tree, of Senegal. In'dian Bdellium. Syii. Indian myeeh. False m. ; Bdellium (of Scripture); Bdel- lium in'dicum, L. From am’yris com- miph'o7'a (Roxb.), or balsamoden'dron Rox- bur'gii, a terebinthaceous tree of India. Prop., Sfc. Once considered slightly deob- struent ; sometimes used as a pectoral and emmenagogue, and, externally, as a stimulant and suppurative. It is now seldom met with in this country. BDELLOM'ETER (del-). Syii. MechanTcal ^ “Modern Cookery” Longman 8c Co., 1860. j LEECH; BdELLOM'ETEUM, L.; BDELLOMeTEE, Fr. In surgery, a contrivance combining the principle of the cupping-glass, scarificator, and exhausting-syringe, in one small instru- ment. BEAD (bede). Syn. Glob'ulub, sph^e'ula, Ac., L.; Geain (de collier), Ac., Fr.; Bethe, Peele, Ac., Ger. A little ball or spheroid pierced for stringing; any very small globular bodyj ; a bubble (J or tech.). A number of the first mounted on a thread or ribbon form a ‘ string of beads ’ or ‘ chaplet.’ Hist. The use of beads is of the highest antiquity. They are mentioned in the Old Testament, and are found among the tombs and ruins of Thebes, Assyria, Greece, and other ancient nations. The Druids employed them in their ceremonies; and they are met with in the ‘ barrows’ or burial places of the ancient Britons. At the present day the chief seat of the bead-manufacture is in the island of Mu- rano, Venice, where they are elaborated in glass, in almost endless variety as to colour, size, Ac.—the number of work-people em- ployed there being upwards of 5000, and the annual value of the product closely approach- ing 250,000/.2 Mateidals, manuf, ^-c. Beads are often formed of coral, gems, jet, pearls, porcelain, rock-crystal, Ac.; but much more frequently of white and coloured glass. The mode in which these last are produced is as follows ;— Glass-tubes, appropriately ornamented by co- lour, reticulation, Ac., are drawn out in various sizes, and from 100 to 200 feet in length. These tubes’ are cut into two-feet lengths, and then, by means of a steel knife, divided into pieces having, as nearly as possible, the same length as diameter. The resulting small ‘ fragments ’ or ‘ cylinders ’ are next well stirred with a mixture of satid and ivood-ashes, in order to prevent the closure of the perfo- rations and their adhering together during the subsequent j)art of the process. They are then placed in a ‘revolving cylinder’ and gra- dually heated until they become sufficiently spherical. They are next sifted from the ‘ sand and ashes,’ sorted into sizes, first by means of sieves, and afterwards by hand, and are lastly, either ‘put up’ in weighed parcels or strung by women and children for the market. The manufacture of coral, gems, jet, and tninerals generally, into beads, belongs to the lapidary. Uses. Chiefly to form necklaces, bracelets, and other articles of personal ornament; by milliners, to decorate head-dresses, Ac.; and for other like purposes. They are also employed among Catholic and ]\Iohammedan nations for devotional purposes; and among savage tribes in lieu of money. They are still some- times worn as amulets. See Bugle, Coeal, Glass, Paste, Peaels, Ac. (also below). Jum'ble Beads (bedz). The dried seeds of a'brus precatbr’ius (Linn.) or Jamaica wild- * Jurors’ Report of the International Exhibition of 1851. ( 1 % t