ARSENIOUS ACID. 227 iction of arsenious acid) :*—9. Albumen (white Ijf egg), or liquids containing it (in cold water, id libitum) :—10. Milk, wheat-flour, oatmeal, ]ruel, (with water, ad libitum:)—11. Lime- 'cater, with milk (as the last):—12. Chalk with milk-and-water (as the last) :—13. In- \'^usion or decoction of bark, or better, of nut- jalls (as the last):—14. Sugar or sgrup (ad ibitum). See Treatm. (above); also the ibove substances under their respective heads. ' Uses, Sfc. Arsenious acid and its compounds ire extensively employed in the arts and nedicine. It is used by the dyer, it furnishes he artist with several of his most beautiful j)igments, and the glass-maker and enameller ivith a flux or material to whiten and decolour iheir wares. In agriculture, it is used (in Solution) as an ‘anti-smut^ for seed-wheat; ind as an ^anti-veemin lotion’ or "dip- >ing’ for sheep and cattle. In small (thera- )eutical) doses it is a valuable remedy in inter- nittent fevers, chronic skin-diseases (especially lepra and psoriasis), and in several nervous j.ffections (as neuralgia, epilepsy, chorea, jetanus, &c.). It is the active ingredient of |he * Tasteless ague-drop and in the Tanjore [ills, long celebrated in India for the cure of jhe bite of the cobra di capello and other venom- us serpents, as well as of hydrophobia. It has een given in syphilis, chronic rheumatism, yphus, and several other diseases, with more r less advantage. Cautiously administered h * phthisis/** it frequently restores the appe- ! ite and strength, and greatly retards, and in ome cases, arrests the progress of the disease, t has been recently used to relieve toothache I rising from caries. Externally, it is employed }Q the form of powder, lotion, and ointment, or the cure of cancer. Plunkett's Ointment, ydte arsinicale, Davidson's Remedy for Cancer, Ind several other like preparations, owe their Ictivity to arsenious acid. Water in which I white arsenic’ has been steeped^ has become I 1 Dr. Bloiidlot, in a nafer communicated to the ‘ Paris I cademy of Sciences,’ has come to the conclusion that the |liglitest quantity of greasy matter in contact with arscni- |U8 acid redvces its solubility to about l-20th of what it I as before. This explains at once why, in certain judicial ivestigations, arsenic has been sought for in vain in the jquid contents of the stomach, when the food consisted iartly of fatty substances, such as brotli, milk, &c. It ikewise explains how arsenious acid, taken in powder, may i>metimes remain a long time in the stomach before it reduces any deleterious effect; since, in such cases, its Iction is hindered by the presence of fatty niatter. Jug- jlers often swallow arsenic with impunity, because accord- »g to Dr. Blondlot, they previously take the precaution to rini ‘milk’ and eat ‘fat bacon.’ Hence, in cases of loisoning by arsenic, oils and fatty substances may be dministered as real antidotes, capable of suspending the Iction of the poison for a considerable time, until more hdical means of effecting a cure can be applied. The leople engaged in some of the arsenic-works, regard salad as almost a certain antidote to this poison. i n tbe form of liq.potassa arsenitis, Ph. L.; or in ills containing l-20th of a grain; in both cases taken bon after a meal. Dr. Gardener prefers arseniate of soda ii this case. See Phthisis, Soda (Arseniate of), &c. j * Two or three grains, crushed to fiue powder, to infer, I quart. Some ladies add an equal weiglit of salt 1 tartar. Solution is promoted by stirring the mixture I bilst hot. When cold, the clear liquid is carefully poured a favorite cosmetic wash with many ladies, since its assumed property of softening the skin, was announced in a certain popular periodical. Its use, whether internal or ex- ternal, is, however, attended with considerable danger in unskilful hands, and should, there- fore, never he adopted but under proper advice.—Dose. to ^ gr., made into pills with crumb of bread and lump sugar; or in solution (liq. of arsenite of potassa,’ Ph. L.), 3 to 5 or 6 drops, twice or thrice daily, gra- dually and cautiously increased to 12, or even 15 drops. ‘‘ As a rule, arsenical preparations should be taken soon after a meal, and by no means on an empty stomach.” (Dr. A. T. Thomson.) The dose should he suspended, or greatly reduced, as soon as the ‘ conjunctiva’ is affected (Hunt); or if dryness of the mouth or throat, or irritation of the stomach or bowels, ensues. Mr. Maculloch found the pills more efficacious than the ‘solution’; they act differently, and cannot be substituted for one another.”^ Arsenic is a favorite tonic and alterative with farriers; who often administer it very carelessly to horses, to the serious injury of these animals. It is also a favorite with grooms, who have imbibed the notion that small doses of it contribute to improve the condition of the skin. The best-informed veterinarians, however, either wholly avoid it, or use it with very great caution.^—Dose (for a hoese), 2 to 5 or 6 gr., twice or thrice daily; in farcy or glanders, 10 to 12 gr. In solution it is often employed as a ‘ wash’ or ‘ dip- ping’ to destroy vermin in cattle and sheep; but its use is not free from danger, particu- larly to the shepherds or ‘ dippers.’ Gen. Commentary. The necessary length of the preceding ‘ article,’ owing to the great im- portance of the subject in its relations to toxicology and medical jurisprudence, has left us little space for further remark here. In addition to what has been said on ‘ arsenical testingf it may be useful to caution the reader, of the absolute necessity of only employing ‘ tests ’ and ‘ reagents ’ which are themselves absolutely pure; and in which the operator off from any undissolved portion, which must be entirely rejected. * Dr. Physick, “ V. S. Dispens.” 5 “As a therapeutic agent for horses, arsenious acid can be well dispensed with. It is, however, employed by some as a tonic, in doses of from 10 to 20 gr. daily; and by others as a vermifuge. When injudiciously adminis- tered death has been the result. By those of the old school it is extolled as a caustic, and a very powerful one doubtlessly it is; but there is this disadvantage attending its use—we cannot control its action, and, oftentimes, a most extensive and painful wound is caused by it. Occa- sionally it is resorted to for the eradication of warts ; although a better plwa. is to extirpate them at once with the knife. When, however, this is inadmissible, I part of arsenious acid, in very fine powder, may be mixed with 4 parts of lard, and a (small) portion of the compound applied, with friction, over and around the excrescence every other day, for three or fotir times. This will excite such a powerful sloughing action, that in about 10 days the warts will be thrown off.” (Prof. Morion.)—“Wc have better and safer tonics, and belter and safer caus- tics.” (Youatt.)