172 ANIMAL. of animals, by being invariably the result of * external stimuli,’ and being, for the most part, mechanical and performed in the self-same manner; whilst the voluntary motions of animals proceed from an ‘ internal ’ impulse, arising from parts, themselves at rest. The causes which operate to produce animal and vegetable motions, and the means by which they are produced, are also essentially different. The muscular fibre of animals, on which their move- ments depend, wdien stimulated by the nerves of volition, ‘ contracts’ upon itself; whilst the motion of vegetables arises from the ‘ intume- scence ’ and ‘ extension ’ of their cells. The difference between the two may be perceived, even when the lowest order of animals is com- pared with those plants which enjoy the powers of motion in the most marked degree. The simplest monad of infusions exhibits the voluntary characteristics of the animal, by varying its movements to avoid obstacles, or to seize its food j whilst the locomotive embryo of the conferva dilatata proceeds blindly onward, in an unvarying course, until its irritability is exhausted, and excites no idea of animality in the mind of the experienced observer. “ The moving embryo of the alga is as readily distin- guished from the simplest polygastric monad, as a tree is from a bird.” (Ehrenberg.) In the animal, both sensation and voluntary motion depend upon the nerves; and hence the nervous system has been termed the ‘ essence of animal life.’ Through it, assimilation and the nutri- The Vegetable— Produces neutral nitrogenous matters ; „ fatty matters; „ sugars, feculas, and gums; Decomposes carbonic acid; ,, water; „ ammoniacal salts; Disengages oxygen; Absorbs heat; „ electricity; Is an apparatus of reduction; Is immovable. “ Carbonic acid, water,ammonia, contain” (irrespective of the mineral substances already noticed) “ the elements necessary for the sup- port of animals and vegetables. The same sub- stances are the ultimate products of the che- mical ” ( natural ) “ processes of decay and putrefaction. All the innumerable products of vitality resume, after death, the original form from which they sprung. “Thus the destruction of an existing gene- ration becomes the means of the production of a new one, and—death becomes the source of The bodies of animals are composed of certain proximate principles or compounds which are 1 Liebig’s '^Chem. in'Us Appl, to Ayric, and 'Physiol.,” p. 59. tion of parts are performed. The plant absorbs its nourishment through its leaves from the atmosphere, and through its roots from the soil, by an ‘ unremitting’ action, so long as materials are presented for their operation;— animals, on the contrary, require an ‘ internal cavity’ for the reception of their food, which must undergo the process of digestion before it can be assimilated with their structures. This digestion or prepai’atory treatment of their food by animals, prior to assimilation, independently of the possession of various other organs for the purpose of seizing, com- minuting, and swallowing it, and for subse- quently appropriating its more useful portions, would alone be sufficient to distinguish tlie members of the two great kingdoms of tlie organic world from each other. Indeed, an animal might be defined to be—an ‘ organised being possessing a stomach ’; a vegetable—an ‘ organised being without one.’ Theybot?, too, of animals consists of organised substances only ; whilst the food of vegetables is inorganic matter. The one merely appropriates and modifies the proximate organic'principles which it swallows—the other decomposes compounds, and forms these principles from their inorganic elements. This offers perhaps a more philo- sophical distinction between animal and vege- table life than any other yet given. These views, which were first elaborated by the . German chemico-physiologists, are thus tabu- | lated by Dumas:— ^ The Animal— Consumes neutral nitrogenous matter; f „ fatty matters; ,, sugars, feculas, and gums; j Produces carbonic acid; ; „ water; „ ammoniacal salts; ' Consumes oxygen; j Produces heat; „ electricity; Is an apparatus of oxidation j Is locomotive. derived, either directly or indirectly, from the jl vegetable kingdom, and of which the ultimate J constituents or elements are all found in the ; inorganic world. Each of these principles contains at least three chemical elements, and each has more than one equivalent of carbon. They all contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen; and those which enter into the composition of the blood and living tissues, also contain nitro- i gen. Sulphur and phosphorus are found in some of them; and, independently of the bones (which consist principally of phosphate of lime), small quantities of common salt, earthy j phosphates, and ferruginous and alkaline salts, | are generally diffused through the organs, tis- j sues, and fluids, composed of them. Of these j substances the following are the principal:—