AMYL-ALCOHOL—AMYLENE. 163 I 1 Chlo^ride of Amyle. Prep. 1. From fusel- I oil and pentachloride of phosphorus, equal parts, distilled together; the distillate being I washed with verp weak solution of potassa, and j rectified from dried chloride of calcium, 2. By saturating fusel-oil with dry hydro- ! chloric acid gas. \ Prop., <^c. Liquid, colourless, aromatic, I and odorous; neutral to test-paper; insoluble I in water; and boiling at 215° Fahr. It burns I readily, and with a fiame green at the edges. I Chlorine, assisted by sun-light, converts it gradually into a colourless volatile liquid I (CHLO^RINETTED CHLORIDE OF AMYLe) which I smells strongly of camphor. ' Cy'anide of Amyle. A colourless, volatile ' liquid, obtained by distilling cyanide of potas- sium with sulphamylate of potassa. It boils i at 295° Fahr., and has the sp. gr. *806. i Hy'drate of Amyle. Syn. Hy'drated ox'ide OF AMYLE, Am'YL-AL'COHOL, AmYL'iC A. ; Fu'sel-oil (pure). Prep. The fusel-oil of I commerce, after being washed with water, I is distilled in a retort furnished with a ther- ! mometer, and only that portion collected which i passed over between 260° and 280° Fahr.; I and this is rectified in a similar manner until I the liquid has a fixed boiling point at 268° to 1 269° Fahr. ! Prop., S^c. A thin oily fluid, which exhales I a powerful and peculiarly suffocating odour, I and leaves a strong burning taste. It is only j feebly inflammable, and burns with a pure ' blue flame; sp. gr. 0’818; platinum-black, 5 assisted with a gentle heat, converts it into 4, VALERIANIC ACID, in the Same way that this substance transforms ^ ordinary alcohol ’ into I acetic acid. See Fusel-oil. Hy'dride of Amyle. An exceedingly volatile substance, boiling at 86° Fahr., formed, along I with' oxide of zinc,’ when zinc-amyl is brought I into contact with water. \ I'odide of Amyle. A colourless liquid, heavier than water, obtained by distilling a mixture of phosphorus, 1 part; iodine, 8 parts; and I fusel-oil, 15 parts. It boils and volatilises, 1 without decomposition, at 295° Fahr.; but is i decomposed by exj)Osure to a strong light. I Ox'alate of Amyle. Syn. Essence of bugsJ. ' Prepared hy fusel-oil with oxalic acid I in excess, and distilling the oily liquid which ' separates at 500° Fahr. i Oxide of Amyle. See Amyl-ether. ' Sul'phate of Amyle. Syn. Sulphate of 1 ox'ide of Amyle. Prep. From fusel-oil I dissolved in alcohol, and then treated with j concentrated sulphuric acid in slight excess ; I the ‘alcohol’ and ‘excess of acid’ being sub- I sequently separated and removed by diluting I the mixture with water, and washing the I newly-formed compound with water (either j pure or ^slightly alkalised), as directed under j the ‘ acetate.’ The name is also sometimes ! applied to amyl-ether. When prepared from I the/Mse/-o»7 of marc-brandy, and dissolved in : rectified spirit, it forms one of the varieties of BRANDY-oiL or ESSENCE, used to impart the flavour of Cognac to plain-spirit. See Amyl- ether {above), Sulphamylic acid, &c. Surphide of Amyle. Syn. Sul'phuret of AMYLE. As the like compound of the ethyl- series, which it, for the most part, resembles. Vale"rianate of Amyle. Syn. Valerianate OF OX'IDE OF A.; APPLE-OIL, A.-ESSENCE, &C. This compound is abundantly formed during the preparation of valerianic acid from potato oil, and is recognised by the offensive odour of rotten apples evolved during the process. By treating the crude product of the distil- lation with a weak solution of pure potassa, the ‘valerianic acid’ is removed, and the volatile oil obtained nearly pure. Dissolved in rectified spirit it forms the new ‘ apple- essence ’ now so much employed as a flavour- ing ingredient for confectionary and liqueurs. See Fruit Essences, Valerianic Acid, &c. Zinc-Am'yle. See Amyle {above) and ZiNC- ETHYLE. AM'YL-AL'COHOL. See Fusel-oil, and Hydrate of Amyle {above). AM'YL-E'THEE. Syn. Amyl'iC ether, Ox'ide of amyle, Amylox'ide, &c. Prep. From amyl-alcohol (fusel-oil) and concentrated sulphuric acid, distilled together; the distillate being afterwards rectified several times, until the boiling point reaches 349° Fahr., and the sp. gr. falls to *779. A similar ether, less care- fully prepared from the oil of ‘ marc-brandy,’ and dissolved in alcohol, is sold under the name of brandy-oil, Cognac-o., or brandy- essence, and is used to flavour plain-spirit in imitation of brandy. See Ether, Fruit Essences, Oils ( Volatile), &c. (also below). Am'yl-mercap'tan. See Mercaptan. AM'YLENE (-e-lene). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Am'ilene*; Amyle'na, Amyle'num, L. a peculiar volatile, liquid hydrocarbon, dis- covered by Cahours. Prep. From/wseZ-ozYrepeatedly distilled along Avith either anhydrous phosphoric acid, or a con- centrated solution of chloride of zinc; the product being repeatedly rectified, at a low temperature, until the ‘ boiling point ’ sinks to 102° Fahr. Prop., uses, 8fc. An ethereal liquid, lighter than water, having an aromatic odour, slightly alliaceous. Sp. gr. of vapour, 2-68. It is homologous or isomeric with olefiant gas, and with valerene. It combines with chlorine (chlo"ride of amylene), with iodine (i'odide OF amylene), with bromine (bro'mide of amylene), &c., and may be converted into a diatomic alcohol (am'ylene al'cohol, am'yl- gly'col) ; all of which have similar formula?, and may be obtained by processes similar to those employed for its ‘ ethylene-analogues.’ Its vapour was several times successfully em- ployed, by the late Dr. Snow, as a substitute for ether and chloroform in producing anaes- thesia, being, though less agreeable, also less pungent, and consequently easier to breathe, than either of them; but its use has since been given up owing to doubts as to its safety,