MALLEABILITY—MALT. 877 plants, either alone, or associated with other acids, or with potassa or lime. In the juice of the garden rhubarb, it exists in great abun- I dance, being associated with acid oxalate of potassa. Prep. (Everitt.) The stalks of common gar- den rhubarb are peeled, and ground or grated to a pulp, which is subjected to pressure; the juice is heated to the boiling-point, neutralized with carbonate of potassa, mixed with acetate I of lime, and the insoluble oxalate of lime which ! falls is removed by filtration; to the clear and I nearly colourless liquid, solution of acetate of ' lead is next added as long as a precipitate I (‘malate of lead^) continues to form; this is I collected on a filter, washed, diffused through i water, and decomposed by sulphuric acid, avoiding excess, the last portion of lead being thrown down by a stream of sulphuretted I hydrogen; the filtered liquid is, lastly, care- fully evaporated to the consistence of syrup, and left in a dry atmosphere until it becomes ; converted into a solid and somewhat crystalline j mass of malic acid. If perfectly pure malic acid is required, the malate of lead must he crystallized before decomposing it with sul- phuretted hydrogen. Prod. 20,000 gr. of the i peeled stalks yield 12,500 gr. oi juice, of which I one imperial gallon contains ll,139i of dry I malic acid. I Obs. By a similar process, malic acid may he ! prepared from the juice of the berries of the j mountain ash {Sorbus aucuparid), just wdien I they commence to ripen, or from the juice of apples, pears, &c. ' Prop., S^c. Malic acid is slightly deliques- cent, very soluble in water, soluble in alcohol, and has a pleasant acidulous taste. The aque- ous infusion soon gets mouldy by keeping, t When kept fused for some time at a low heat, it is converted into ftjmaeic acid ; and when quickly distilled, it yields maleic acid, while ' FUMAEIC ACID is left in the retort. With the , bases malic acid forms salts called malaxes. I Of these the acid malate of ammonia is in ! large, beautiful crystals; malate of lead is i insoluble in cold water, hut dissolves in warm dilute acid, from which it separates on cooling in brilliant silvery crystals; acid malate of LIME also forms very beautiful crystals, freely I soluble in water; nedteal malate of lime is only sparingly soluble in water; the first is i obtained by dissolving the latter in hot dilute I nitric acid, and allowing the solution to cool ] very slowly. MALLEABILTTY. The peculiar property I of metals which renders them capable of ex- I tension under the hammer. MALT. Sxjn. Bina, Byne, Beasium, Mal- [ TUM, L. Corn which has become sweet, from I the conversion of a portion of its starch into ; sugar, in consequence of incipient germination. Barley is the grain usually employed for this I purpose. I Proc. The grain is steeped in xcater con- tained in large wooden or stone cisterns, for a period of from 40 to 60 hours, depending on the temperature of the weather, or until it becomes sufficiently swollen and soft enough to be easily pierced with a needle, or crushed between the thumb and finger without yield- ing a milky jince. The w’ater is then drawn off, and the swollen barley is laid upon the stone floor of a suitable apartment, called the ‘couch,’ to the depth of 12 to 16 inches, where it is allow'ed to remain till the ‘acrospire’ or ‘ plumule ’ shoots forth. During this period the grain is at first turned every 24 hours, and afterwards 2 or 3 times a day, and at each turning the layer is spread out more and more, until it is reduced to the depth of about 3 or 4 inches. The sprouted grain is next removed to the malt kiln, and dried in a thin layer, until quite hard. By the process of drying, the vitality of the seed is destroyed, and it may then he preserved without suffer- ing further change. Product. Good barley yields about 80§ by weight, and 109g by mea- sure, of dried and sifted malt. Of the loss by weight, 12g must be referred to water existing in the raw grain. Var. Independently of variations of quality, or of the grain from which it is formed, malt is distinguished into varieties depending on the heat of the kiln employed for its desicca- tion. When dried at a temperature ranging between 90 and 100° Fahr., it constitutes ‘ PALE MALT ’; w'hen all the moisture has ex- haled, and the heat is raised to from 120 to 125°, ‘YELLOV^r,’ or ‘PALE AMBEE MALT,’ is formed; when the heat ranges between 135 and 140°, the product receives the name of ‘AMBEE malt’; at 145 to 165°, ‘ambee- BEOWN,’ or ‘ PALE BEO’WN MALT,’ is obtained. When the grain is dried at a still higher tem- perature, it forms ‘ beown malt ’; and when the heat is sufficient to blacken or discolour it, it is known as ‘ patent malt.’ In the pre- paration of the last variety the heat is sometimes pushed as high as even 430 to 435° Fahr. Qual. Good malt has an agreeable smell, and a sweet taste; it is round and full in the grain, and is moderately brittle between the teeth. The admixture of unmalted with malted grain may be discovered by throwing a little into water—malt floats on water, but raw barley sinks in it. The only certain method, however, of determining the value of malt, is to ascertain the amount of soluble matter which it contains, by direct experiment. This varies from 62 to 70|j, and for good malt is never less than 66 to 67g. If we assume the quarter of malt at 324 lb., and the average quantity of soluble matter at 66^, then the total weight of soluble matter will be fully 213.f lb. per quarter; but as this, “in taking on the form of gum and sugar” during the process of mashing, “chemically combines with the elements of water, so the extract, if eva- porated to dryness, would reach very nearly 231 lb.; and this reduced to the basis of a I,