604 EXPECTORANTS—EXTRACT. to tlie perpendicular the leaning walls of buildings; &c. EXPEC'TORANTS. Syn. Expectorantia, L. Medicines that promote the secretion of the tracheal and bronchial mucus. According to Dr. Good, true expectorants are “those medicines which rather promote the separation of the viscid phlegm with which the bronchia3 are loaded, than simply inviscate and dilute it; though these are also treated as expecto- rants by many writers.'^ Ammoniacum, anti- monials, assafoetida, the balsams of Peru and iolu, benzoic acid, benzoin; the fumes of vine- gar, tar, and several of the volatile oils ; garlic, ipecacuanha, the oleo-resins, squills, tartarized antimony, and the smoke of tobacco and stra- monium, are among the principal substances commonly called expectorants. Tartarized antimony, squills, chlorine, and ammoniacal gases, have also been used (diluted) to provoke the coughing and favour the expulsion of foreign bodies from the air-passages; and also to favour the expectoration of mucus, pus, and membranous concretions, when the local irri- tation is not sufficiently great. (Schwilgue.) Expectorants are commonly employed in pul- monary complaints and affections of the air- tubes, attended by a vitiated state of the mucus, or an imperfect performance of the natural functions of the secretory vessels. “ Of all classes of the materia medica, none are more uncertain in their action than expec- torants.’^ (Pereira.) The act of ejecting matter from the chest is called expectora- tion. EXPERIMENTS are acts or operations intended to develop some unknown fact, prin- ciple, or effect; or to establish or demonstrate it, when discovered. Similar operations, per- formed merely for amusement, are also often, though incorrectly, called by this name. In rational experiments these two objects are combined. To experimental research is due the present high state of advancement and usefulness of the various sciences most inti- mately connected with our hai)piness and well- being. The danger of taking things for granted has been thus pleasantly and instruc- tively pointed out by Archbishop Whateley : —“ It was objected to the system of Coper- nicus, when first brought forward, that if the earth turned on its axis, as he represented, a stone dropped from the summit of a tower would not fall at the foot of it, but at a great | distance to the west; in the same manner as a stone dropped from the masthead of a ship in full sail does not fall at the foot of the mast, but towards the stern. To this it was answered, that a stone, being a part of the earth, obeys the same laws, and moves with it; whereas it is no part of the ship, of which, consequently, its motion is independent. The solution was admitted by some, but opposed by others; and the controversy went on with spirit; nor was it till one hundred years after the death of Copernicus that, the experiment being tried, it was ascertained that the stone, thus dropped from the head of the mast, does fall at the foot of it.” EXPRES'SION. In the useful arts, the me- chanical operation by which a fluid contained in the pores or cells of a solid is pressed out or expelled. Many of the fluid substances em- ployed in pharmacy and chemistry are obtained by expression. Thus, the unctuous vegetable oils, as those of almonds, linseed, &c., are pro- cured by submitting these substances to pow- erful pressure between iron plates, which are either made warm, or the bruised seeds are previously exposed in bags to the steam of boiling water. The juices of fresh vegetables are also obtained by expression. The sub- stances are first bruised in a marble mortar, or, on the large scale, in a mill, and imme- diately submitted to the press, to prevent them passing into a state of fermentation, which would injure the quality of the product. Fruits which contain highly flavoured or fra- grant seeds, or which have rinds containing essential oil, are generally deprived of them before being sent to the press. The subacid fruits are also allowed to lay together for some days before pressing them, as the quantity and quality of the product is thereby increased. The fluid matter absorbed by the ingredients employed in the preparation of tinctures, infu- sions, decoctions, extracts, &c., is generally ob- tained by powerful pressure. Expression is also frequently had recourse to for the purpose of obtaining solids in a state of purity, as in the expidsion of oleine from stearine, water from bicarbonate of soda, &c. On the small scale, the common screw-press, or one of like construction, is usually employed; but the power thus obtained is insufficient to expel the whole of a fluid diffused through the pores of a solid. Hence has arisen the use of the hydraulic press, which is now almost alone em- ployed on the large scale. In all these cases the substances are placed in bags made of haircloth, or coarse canvas, previously to their being submitted to pressure. For tinctures and like pharmaceuticals, a small screw-press (tincture press) made of ^galvanized’ or tinned iron, and varying in capacity from 1 quart to several gallons, is employed. EXSICCA'TION. See Desiccation. EX'TRACT. Syn. Extractum, L. Among chemists, this term is understood to apply to the residuum of the evaporation of aqueous decoctions or infusions of vegetable matter. In medicine and pharmacy, it has a less definite signification, being applied to various prepa- rations obtained by evaporating the expressed juices, or the decoctions, infusions, or tinctures of vegetable substances, until a mass, of a solid or semi-solid consistence, is formed. Extracts vary in their nature and composition with the substances from which they are prepared, and the fluids employed as solvents. When water is employed as the menstruum, the products (aqueous extracts, watery E. ; EXTRACTA