1295 URATES—URINARY AFFECTIONS. which is pyrophoric, and forms green salts *with the acids. The peotosesquioxide is black, and not basic. The sesqttioxide (per- oxide) is precipitated as a yellow hydrate, when a pure alkali is added to a solution of 'the sesquinitrate; and as a carbonate, when 'alkaline carbonates are used. It is best ob- : tained by heating the salt to about 480° Fahr., ' in an oil bath, as long as any nitrous fumes are disengaged. It is soluble in alkalies in I excess, acting the part of a feeble acid. ! Tests. The salts oiprotoxide of uranium are ! characterised by their green colour; those of the sesquioxide or peroxide are very beautiful, and of a yellow colour. With caustic alkalies ' they yield a yellow precipitate; with ferro- i cyanide of potassium, a reddish-brown precipi- * tate, resembling ferrocyanide of copper; with ' hydrosulphuret of ammonia and with infusion of galls, a brown one. Sulphuretted hydrogen turns the solutions of the, persalts green. Uses. Its ores and oxides are occasionally I used to colour glass and enamels. U'RATES. Salts of uric acid. U'REA. Syn. Cyan ate of ammonia (Ano- malous). A crystalline, colourless, transparent j substance, discovered by Fourcroy and Vau- j quelin in urine, and by Wohler as the first organic compound artificially produced. I Prep. 1. (Thenard.) Fresh urine, gently ! evaporated to the consistence of a syrup, is ; treated with its own volume of nitric acid of I sp. gr. 1‘19; the mixture is shaken and im- mersed in an ice bath, to solidify the crystals of nitrate of urea; these are washed with ice- I cold water, drained, and pressed between sheets of blotting paper; they are next dissolved in 1 water, and the solution is decomposed and pre- I cipitated with carbonate of potassa (or car- I bonate of baryta) / the whole is then gently ! evaporated nearly to dryness, and the residuum is exhausted with pure alcohol, which dissolves I the urea, which crystallizes out as the solution I cools. j 2. Fresh urine, concentrated by boiling, and ! filtered through cloth, is treated with a strong ■ solution of oxalic acid, and the resulting salt decomposed with chalk. 3. (Liebig.) See below. Prop., 8(c. Urea forms four-sided prisms, I which are soluble in an equal weight of cold I water, and are also freely soluble in alcohol; j the solution is neutral to test paper; it is per- I manent in dry air; has a cooling saline taste; ' fuses at 250° Fahr.; and is decomposed at ] higher temperatures. It is said to be diuretic, I and has been given in doses of 10 to 30 gr., or I more, dissolved in sugared water. Facti"tious Urea. Syn. Cyanate of am- I MONIA; AMMONI.E CYANAS, UrEA FACTITIA, L. Prep. (Liebig.) Cyanate of potassa (pre- pared by Liebig’s process—page 1117) is dis- I solved in a small quantity of water, and a I quantity of dry neutral sulphate of ammonia, equal in weight to the cyanate, added; the i whole is evaporated to dryness in a water bath, and the dry residuum boiled with alcohol of 809; the filtered solution, concentrated by distilling off a portion of the spirit, deposits, as it cools, the urea in crystals of considerable magnitude and beauty, and which are abso- lutely identical with the urea obtained from urine. Prod. 25g of the weight of the ferro- cyanide of potassium used in the preparation of the cyanate employed. Ni'trate of Urea. Syn. Uee^ niteas, L. Prep. From urine, as described above; or it may be prepared by saturating artificial urea with nitric acid. Diuretic. Dose. 2 to 5 gr., twice or thrice daily; in dropsy. U'RETHANE. A white, solid, crystallizable substance, formed by the action of either gaseous or liquid ammonia on chloro carbonic acid. It is very soluble in water, fuses at about 212°, and, when dry, volatilizes un- changed at about 350° Fahr. URE'THYLANE. A _ solid, crystallizable substance, formed by acting on chlorocarbonic methyl-ether with dry gaseous ammonia. U'RIC ACID. Syn. Lithic acid; Acidum LiTHiciJM, A. DEICDM, L. A substaiice dis- covered by Scheele, and peculiar to the urine of certain animals, and the excrement of ser- pents and several birds. The faeces of the boa constrictor consist of little else than urate of ammonia. Uric acid is a product of the animal organism, and has never been formed arti- ficially. It constitutes one of the commonest varieties of urinary calculi, and of the red GRAVEL or SAND which is voided in certain morbid states of the urine. Guano derives its principal value as a manure from the pre- sence of urate of ammonia. The gouty con- cretions of the joints, popularly known as CHALK-STONES, consist chiefly of urate of soda. Prep. Dissolve urinary lithic calculi, or the chalk-like excrement of serpents, reduced to fine powder, in a solution of caustic potassa, by boiling, then add hydrochloric acid in ex- cess, again boil for 15 minutes, and well wash the precipitate with water. Prop., (S^c. Brilliant, very minute, white and silky scales, which are tasteless, inodo- rous, slightly soluble in boiling water, and dissolve in strong sulphuric acid, but are again precipitated by water. It forms salts with the bases called urates, all of which are very sparingly soluble. The characteristic reaction of uric acid is, that, when moistened with nitric acid and heated, it dissolves, and by evaporation yields a red compound, which, upon the addition of a drop or two of solution of caustic ammonia, assumes a magnificent crimson colour, being converted into MU- eexide. U'RINARY AFFECTIONS. Of these de- serving a popular notice are— Diabetes, or an immoderate flow of urine. Of this disease there are two varieties:— Diabetes insipidus, which consists of a su- perabundant discharge of ordinary urine; and —DIABETES MELLITUS, in which the urine I