1183 SALTPETRB-SALVB. i Glauber’s Salt. Sulphate of soda. Macqueer’s Salt. Binarseniate of potassa. Microcos'mic Salt. Phosphate of soda and iinmonia. Red Salt. Common salt wetted with an in- cision of beet-rooty or cochinealy or tincture of \ed sunders woody then dried, and rubbed |:irough a sieve. Used to impart a colour to iravies, &c. Infusion of saffron also gives a eautiful colour for this purpose. It has been jroposed to colour Epsom salt in this way, to jistinguish it from oxalic acid. I Rochelle Salt. Tartrate of potassa and soda. I Sea Salt. Chloride of sodium. Sed'ative Salt. Boracic acid. I Smelling Salt. See Salts {below). ! Sore-throat Salt. Sal prunella. : Tasteless Salt. Phosphate of soda. ' Veg'etable Salt. Tartrate of potash. ' Vol'atile Salt. Sesquicarbonate of ammonia. Salt of Lem'ons. Syn. Sal limonum, L. !itric acid. That sold in the shops for the emoval of ink spots from linen is binoxalate or \uadroxalate of potassoy either alone or mixed j'ith one half its weight of cream of tartar. Salt of Sor'rel. Binoxalate or quadroxalate |f potassa. I Salt of Steel. Sulphate of iron. Salt of Tar'tar. Carbonate of potassa. Salt of Vit'riol. Sulphate of zinc. Salt of Wormwood. Carbonate of potassa. SALTPETRE. Nitrate of potassa. i SALTING. Pickling. Syn. This is an easy pethod of preserving butcher^s meat, fishy and, ideed, most animal substances. It is performed |i two ways:— ( 1. (Dry salting.) This, as practised in Jlampshire, Yorkshire, and in various large \itablishments elsewhere, consists in merely l^ell rubbing ordinary culinary salty mixed with I little saltpetre, into the meat, until every (revice is thoroughly penetrated, and, after- i/ards, sprinkling some over it, and placing it |n a board or in a trough, in such a manner |hat the brine may drain off. On the small \cale, in private families, a mixture of salt, ! Ib.y with saltpetre, 1^^ or 2 oz,, either with |r without about an oz. of good moist sugar, is ommonly \ised for the purpose, and imparts a ne flavour to the meat. In both cases the ieces are turned every day, or every other ay, until sufficiently cured, a little fresh salt eing added as required. Sometimes the fresh leat is packed at once in casks, with the best oarse-grained or bay salt. This method is ihat commonly adopted for sea stores. : 2. (Wet salting, or pickling in brine.) Vhen the meat is allowed to lie in the liquor |hat runs from it (see above), or is at once ! hinged into strong brine, it is said to be pickled, or ‘wet salted* On the small scale, liis is most conveniently performed by rub- iing the fresh meat with salt, &c., as above, jnd, after it has lain a few hours, putting it jato a pickle formed by dissolving about 4 lb. if good salt and 2 oz. of saltpetre in 1 gall, of water, either with or without the addition of i to 1 lb. of moist sugar. This pickling liquor gets weaker by use, and should, therefore, be occasionally boiled down a little, and skimmed, at the same time adding some more of the dry ingredients. Three to ten days, depend- ing on the size, is sufficiently long to keep the meat in the brine. When it is taken out it should be hung up to dry, after which it may be packed in barrels with coarse-grained salty or smoked, whichever may be desired. Saltpetre added to brine gives the meat a red colour, and brown sugar improves the flavour. The sooner animal substances, more espe- cially flesh, are salted after being killed, the better, as they then possess considerable ab- sorbent power, which they gradually lose by age. See Putrepaction, Scurvy, Smoking, &c. SALTS (Smelling). Syn. Sal volatilis OLEOSUS, L. Sesquicarbonate of ammonia commonly passes under the name of ‘ smelling SALTS,’ and, with the addition of a few drops essential oil, is frequently employed to fill ‘ SMELLING bottles’ ; but when a strong and durable pungency is desired, the carbonate should alone be used, as in one or other of the following formulae;— 1. Carbonate (not sesquicarbonate) of am- monia, 1 lb.; oil of lavender (Mitcham), 2 oz.; essence of bergamot, 1 oz.; oil of cloves, \ oz.; rub them together, and sublime; keep the product in well-stopped bottles. 2. Carbonate of ammonia, 1 lb.; oil of laven- der, 2 oz.; oils of bergamot and lemon, of each, 1 oz.; as the last. 3. Carbonate of ammonia, ^ lb.; essence of bergamot, 1 oz. / oil of verbena, i oz.; otto of roses, 1 dr.; as before. 4. Carbonate of ammonia, | lb.; essences of bergamot and lemon, of each, ^ oz. ,* essence de petit grain, i oz.; oil of cloves, 1 dr., as before. 5. {Extemporaneous.)—a. From sal ammo- niac, 1 dr.; pure potassa, 3 dr.; grind them together, and add, of essence of lemons, 15 drops; oil of cloves, 3 or 4 drops.—b. From carbonate or sesquicarbonate of ammonia (bruised), q. s.; volatile ammoniacal essence, a few drops. (See page 588.) According to Dr. Paris, Godfrey’s Smell- ing Salts are made by resubliming volatile salt with subcarbonate of potassa and a little spirits of wine (and essential oil). SALVE. A name indiscriminately applied by the vulgar to any consistent, greasy pre- paration used in medicine. Lip-Salve. Syn. Ceratum labiale, L. Prep. 1. (Red or Peruvian.) From sper- maceti ointment, ^ lb.; alkanet root, ^ oz.; melt them together until sufficiently coloured, strained, and, when the strained fat has cooled a little, add of balsam of Peru, 3 dr. ; stir well, and in a few minutes pour off the clear portion from the dregs; lastly, stir in of oil of cloves, 20 or 30 drops. This never gets rancid.