OR-MOLU. 1016 and when this has become red-hot the screen is slowly moved hack, and more burning char- ooal is added, until the furthest extremity of the tube has been exposed to its action. Tlul firing is so regulated that the gas enters th(| potassa apparatus in bubbles easily counted without any violence or inconvenience, and it is kept up as long as gas is extricated. As soon as the operation is complete, and the slightest retrograde action is observed, the charcoal is removed from the combustion tube, and the extreme point of this last is broken off. A little air is then sucked through the apparatus in order to seize on any remaining Gr. Gr. 1 gr. of Carbonic acid — 0-27273 of Carbon 0-72727 of Oxygen. 1 „ Water = 0-11112 „ Hydrogen -}- 0-88888 „ 2 . . less . . . 0-38385 . . equal to 1-61615 carbonic-acid gas and moisture. The potas) f apparatus and the chloride of calcium tubi\ > are, lastly, detached, and again accurateh • weighed. The increase in the weight of the ' first gives the weight of the carbonic acii formed during the combustion; that of the second, the weight of the water. The numbers equivalent to any given number of grains, found as above, are converted into the proportions per cent, by simply dividing them by the weight of the organic substance which has been employed in the experiment, and moving the decimal point of the result two figures to the right. b. In applying the preceding method to volatile liquids, it is necessary to enclose them in a small bulb with a narrow neck, instead of mixing them directly with the protoxide of copper. The bulb with its contents is intro- duced into the combustion tube, and after some 6 or 8 inches of the protoxide is heated to red- ness, a hot coal is applied near where the bulb is situated, so that the liquid which it contains may be slowly volatilized and passed through the heated mass in the state of vapour, and be thus completely burned. 2. Estimation of the Nitrogen.—a. Several methods are employed for this purpose, but the only one of general application, and adapted to the non-scientific operator, is that of MM. Varrentrap and Will, described under Guano {pages 716-7). To ensure correct results, the caustic soda must be pure, and the lime of good quality and well burnt. The last, having been properly slaked w’ith a little water holding the former in solution, the mixture is thoroughly dried in an iron vessel, and then heated to full redness in an earthen crucible. The ignited mass is rubbed to powder in a warm dry mor- tar, and either used at once or carefully pre- served from the air. The best quantity of the organic substance to operate on is, in this case, about 10 gr., which must be dried, and accu- rately weighed with the usual precautions. Bodies very rich in either nitrogen or hydrogen are best mixed with about an equal weight of pure sugar before triturating them with tin soda-lime. MM. Varrentrap and Will weigl the nitrogen under the form of ammonio chloride of platinum, dried at 212° Fahr. Thi salt contains 6-272g of nitrogen. b. M. Peligot has modified the preceding j plan by conducting the gaseous matter extri i cated during the operation into a three-bull <i tube charged with a standard solution of sul i phuric acid. This he subsequently pours int(, | a beaker-glass, and after it with a drop of tincture of litmus, he tests it witl^i^ either a standard aqueous solution of soda o fi one of lime in siveetened water, after the com mon method of alkalimetry. The different' ^ between the saturating power of the acid ii 1 its normal^ condition and after its exposure ii 1 /Ae indicates th-e amount of ammonii i formed. (See pages 716-7.) Each grain o <■ ammonia contains -82353 gr. of nitrogen. J Concluding remarks. The successful appli i cation of the above processes requires conside rable care and some aptitude in manipulating as well as the employment of a very delicati; balance for determining the weights. i greater error in the weighings than the jlg gr cannot be tolerated when exact results are de sired. The method of MM. Varrentrap am Will for the determination of nitrogen answer), admirably for all organic compounds contain ing it, except those in which it exists under tin : form of hyponitrous, nitrous, and nitric acids for which, however, it is not required. Wher extreme accuracy is aimed at, the atmospheri( air in the apparatus, and that absorbed during; the preliminary operations by the substance; employed, must be expelled before the appli' cation of heat to the combustion tube. || OR-MOLU'. [Fr.] This name is given tc'