730 HOMCEOPATHY—HONEY. ceding mashing is added, followed by as much cold water as will reduce the temperature of the whole to about 85° Fahr. The gravity of the wort at this point varies from 33 to 38 lb. A quantity of the best pressed Flanders yeast, equal to 1 lb. for every 100 gall, of the mashed materials, is next stirred in, and the whole is fermented in the mash-tun for about 3 days, or until the attenuation is from 7 to 4 lb. (sp. gr. 1007 to 1*004). During this time the yeast is occasionally skimmed off the fer- menting wort. The Avash, with the grains, is then transferred to the still, and converted into ‘ low ivines.’ To every 100 gall, of this liquor, 2 lb. of juniper berries (3 to 5 years old), and about 1 lb. of salt, are added, and the whole is put into the low-wine still, o\\di the fine spirit drawn off by a gentle heat, one receiver only being employed. The product per quarter varies from 18 to 21 gall, of spirit, 2 to 3 o. p. 2. (Best Hollands.) Hollands rectified to the strength of 24° Baume (sp. gr. *9125, or about 6 o. p.). 3. (English-made.)—ci. From juniper ber- ries (at least a year old, and crushed in the hands), 3 lb.; rectified spirit, 1^ gall, (or proof spirit, 2^ gall.); digest, Avith agitation, for a week, and then express the liquor; after 24 hours" repose, decant the clear portion, add it to good corn sjnrit, at 2 or 3§ overproof, 90 or 100 gall., and mix them well together. b. From juniper berries, 2^ lb.; sweet fennel seed, 5 oz.; caraway seed, 3|^ oz.; proof spirit, 2 gall.; corn spirit, 90 or 100 gall. c. As the last, Avith the addition of Stras- burg turpentine or Canadian balsam, 1 lb. d. To either of the last two or three, add a very small quantity of ground cardamoms or horse-radish. Some compounders also add 4 or 5 cloves of garlic, or about 15 gr. of assafoetida, Avith 1 gr. of ambergris rubbed to a powder Avith a little white sand or lump sugar. Good plain gin may be advantageously employed in lieu of the corn spirit ordered above, when expense is no object. Obs. The last four forms, Avhich are only given as examples, produce a very pleasant si)irit, if it is kept for some time to ‘ mellow/ Age is one of the principal causes of the ‘creaminess’ of foreign gin, which usually lies in bond for some time before being con- sumed. The product is, however, much su- perior if the ingredients are rectified along Avith 20 gall, of water, and about 14 lb. of salt, by a gentle heat. It Avill be seen from the above that the superior flavour of Hollands spirit depends more on the peculiar mode of its manufacture than on the quantity of juniper berries em- ployed ; 2 lb. of them, Avdien new, being barely equivalent to 1 oz. of the essential oil; and when old, to less than ^ oz., a quantity wholly insufficient to flavour 100 gallons of spirit. The Dutch distillers, most noted for this liquor, add a little pure Strasburg turpentine and a handful or two of hops to the spirit, along Avith the juniper berries, before recti- fication. The former substance has a pale yellowish-brown colour, and a very fragrant and agreeable smell, and tends materially to impart that fine aroma for Avhich the best geneva is distinguished. At Rotterdam sweet fennel seed is commonly added as a flavouring •, and at Weesoppe Strasburg turpentine and fennel seeds, or the essential oil of fennel, are frequently substituted for a large portion of the juniper berries. Schiedam Hollands is considered the best; the next quality is that of Rotterdam; after these comes that of Weesoppe. Attempts have been made by Mr. Robert Moore, and others, to introduce into general consumption in this country a home-made iiquor, resembling and prepared in the same manner as foreign geneva, “ but the palates* of our gin-drinkers Avere too corrupted to relish so pure a spirit.” HOMCEOP'ATHY. Syn. Homceopathia, L. A medical hypothesis promulgated at the com- mencement of the iiresent century by the late Dr. Hahnemann, of Leipsic, according to which diseases may be cured by the adminis- tration of minute doses of medicines capable of producing in healthy persons affections similar to those it is intended to remove. The doctrine that “ similia similibus curantur ” had long previously been practically acted on, to a limited extent, in certain cases, in legiti- mate medicine (allopathy, heteeopathy), although not verbally recognised as belonging to its system. The administration of infini- tesimal doses is an absurdity Avhich homoeo- pathy, hoAvever, alone can claim. According to tliis method, the millionth of a grain is often an excessive dose; whilst billionths and decillionths, quantities so small as to be vastly beyond human perception, form the common doses. This reduces the Avhole practice of homoeopathy to a system of doing nothing beyond regulating the diet and habits of the patient. “All judicious practitioners have long been agreed that there are many cases Avhich are best treated in the manner just mentioned, and in Avhich physic does more harm than good; in which, in short, a sen- sible physician endeavours to amuse the pa- tient, Avliilst nature cures the disorder; so that the frequent success of homoeopathic treatment may be explained, without admitting the principle upon Avhich it is presumed- to be founded.” (Brande.) HON'EY. Syn. Mel (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. The sweet substance elaborated by the do- mestic bee from the juices of the nectaries of fioAvers, and deposited in the cells of wax forming the honeycomb. Var. Pure honey consists of a syrup of uncrystallizable sugar and crystalline sac- charine grains, resembling grape sugar.— ‘Virgin honey’ is that which fioAA^s sponta- neously from the comb.—‘Ordinary honey,’