639 J^ILTRATTON. lous liquors ; the third for oihj ones / and the remainder for tinctures, weak alkaline lyes, and similar solu- tions. These hags have the disadvantage of sucking up a considerable quantity of the fluid poured into them, and are therefore objectionable, except for large quantities, or when they are to he con- tinued in actual use as filters for some time. On the large scale, a number of them are I usually worked together, and are generally en- I closed in cases to prevent evaporation, and to I exclude dirt from the filtered liquor that I trickles down their sides. These arrangements ' will be noticed further on. A simple mode of filtering aqueous fiuids, i which are not injured by exposure to the air, 1 is to draw them off from one vessel to another, by means of a number of threads of loosely twisted cotton or worsted, ar- ranged in the form of a syphon. (See engr.) The little cotton irope at once performs the operations of de- cantation and filtration. This method is often convenient for sucking off the w'ater from a small quantity of a precipitate. When solid substances, as POEOTIS STONE or EARTHENWARE, are used as the media for fil- tration, vessels of metal, wood, or stone-ware, are employed to contain them and the super- natant liquid. In these cases the filtering medium is usually arranged as a shelf or dia- phragm, and divides the vessel into two com- partments ; the upper one being intended to contain the dirty liquid, and the under one to receive the same when filtered. Such apparatus is set in operation by merely filling the upper chamber, and may at any time be readily cleared out by reversing it, and pass- ing clean water through it in an opposite di- rection. Small arrangements of this kind, I intended to he screwed on to the water supply- Ipipe by either end, and which answer the I purpose intended in the most satisfactory man- Iner, have been manufactured and vended un- : der the name of ‘ reversible’ or ‘ self-clean- iiNG- FILTERS.’ When pulverulent substances, as SAND, coarsely powdered charcoal, &c. are employed, a similar arrangement is fob lowed; but in this case the shelf or dia- .phragm must consist of any convenient suh- I stance pierced with numerous holes, over i which must be placed, first a stratum of coarse \pebbles, next some of a finer description, and I on this a proper quantity of the sand, char- coal, or other medium. Over the whole should I he placed another layer of pebbles, or a hoard I or plate of metal or earthenware, pierced with I a number of holes, to allow the liquid to he I poured into the filter without disturbing its ! arrangement. Apparatus of this kind, of a i permanent description, and arranged for filter- ing large quantities of liquids, are properly denominated ‘ filtering machines.’ Among the liquids usually submitted to filtration, the following may he mentioned as the principal—water, oils, syrups, tinc- tures, vegetable juices, infusions, and decoc- tions. The filtration of water may now he con- sidered. The water of our wells is presented by nature ready filtered to the hand of man, and often exhibits an admirable degree of transparency and purity. It acquires this state by percolating through the mineral strata of the earth, which deprive it of the organic matter it derives from the soil and subsoil, but, at the same time, it dissolves a portion of the saline and earthy media through which it passes, and hence acquires that peculiar ^ hard- ness’ which is constantly found in spring water. On the large scale, this natural system of fil- tration has been imitated by some of the com- mercial companies that supply our cities and towns with water. Extensive beds of sand and gravel have been employed, with variable success, as the filtering media; and were it not that filters gradually lose their porosity by the accumulation of the retained matter in their pores, such a method would he excellent. But the great expense of such filters precludes the possibility of frequently cleaning or re- newing them, by which means they can alone be kept in an efficient state, A filter which possesses the advantages of being easily and cheaply cleaned when dirty, and which frees water from mechanical impu- rities with immense rapidity, may he formed by placing a stratum of sponge between two perforated metallic plates, united by a central screw, and arranged in such a manner as to permit of the sponge being compressed to any required degree. Water, under gentle pres- sure, flows with such rapidity through the pores of compressed sponge, that it is said that a few square feet of this substance will perfectly filter several millions of gallons of water daily. This method of filtration has been made the subject of a patent, and has been favorably noticed by the legislature. Kfew barrels or hogsheads of water may he easily filtered daily, by the arrangement repre- sented in the engraving. A. A common water-pipe or cask. h. A false bottom, fitting in perfectly water tight. c. A perforated wooden or metallic vessel or box, covered with a bag of felt or other filtering substance (not shown in the engraving), d. A small tube, fitting water-tight into the false bottom, and uniting the interior of the filter with the lower portion of the cask. It is evident that when water is poured into the upper portion B, of a vessel so ar-