INK. lid 3. Trinidad asphaltum (genuine), 1 part; oil of turpentine, 4 parts ; colour (as last), q. s. 4. (Close.) Cobalt (in powder), 25 gr.; oil of lavender, 200 gr.; dissolve by a gentle heat, and add of lampblack, 3 gr.; indigo 1 gr. (both in impalpable powder); or vermil- ion, q. s. 5. (Hausmann.) As No. 3 (nearly), lle- sists the action of iodine, chlorine, alkalies, and acids. 6. (Sheldrake.) Asphaltum dissolved in amber varnish and oil of turpentine, and coloured with lampblack. Obs. The above are also frequently called ‘ indelible ’ or ‘ indestructible inks.’ They are employed for writing labels on bottles con- taining strong acids and alkaline solutions. The last four are vei'y permanent, and are capable of resisting the action of iodine, chlorine, alkaline lyes, and acids, together with all the operations of dyeing and bleach- ing, and at once offer a cheap and an excellent material for marking linen, &c., as they can- not be dissolved off by any menstrua that will not destroy the fabric. They must be em- ployed with stamps, types, or stencil plates, by which greater neatness will be secured than can be obtained with either a brush or pen. See Horticultural Ink, Indelible Ink, &c. IndeTible Ink. Syn. Indestructible ink. Prep. 1. Lampblack (previously heated to dull redness in a covered vessel), i oz. ; tritu- rate with good black ink (gradually added), 1 pint. Resists chlorine, weak acids, and weak alkaline lyes, in the cold. 2. (Bezanger.) Lampblack ground in a lye of caustic soda, combined with a mixture of gelatine and caustic soda. Said to be in- delible, and to resemble genuine China ink. 3. (Braconnot.) Dantzic potash, 4 parts; tanned leather parings, 2 parts; sulphur, 1 part; water, 20 parts; boil them in an iron vessel to dryness, then raise the heat (con- stantly stirring with an iron rod) until the whole forms a soft mass, observing that it does not ignite; next dissolve the mass in water, q. s., and filter the solution through a cloth. Flows freely from a pen, and resists the action of many chemical substances. 4. (Carbon ink.) Genuine Indian ink, rubbed down with good black ink until it will flow easily from a pen. Resists chlorine, oxalic acid, and ablution with a hair pencil or .sponge. 5. (Coathupe.) Borax, 1 oz.; shell-lac, 2 oz.; water, 18 fl. oz.; boil in a covered vessel until dissolved, strain, add of thick mucilage, 1 oz., and triturate it with levigated indigo and lampblack, of each, q. s. to give a good colour. After 2 hours’ repose, decant it from the dregs, and bottle for use. Resists mois- ture, chlorine, and acids. G. (French.)—a. From Indian ink, diffused through water acidulated with hydrochloric acid. For quills.—b, From Indian ink diffused through water slightly alkalized with liquor of potassa. For metallic pens. 7. (Herberger.) Wheat gluten (free from starch), q. s., is dissolved in weak acetic acid or good pure vinegar, 4 fl. oz.; lampblack (best), 10 or 12 gr.; indigo, 2 or 3 gr.; and oil of cloves, 1 or 2 drops, are then added, and the whole is thoroughly incorporated together. The product is inexpensive, has a beautiful black colour, and resists the action of w’ater, chlorine, and weak acids. Obs. The products of the above formula?, though called ‘indelible ink’ and ‘ indestructible ink,’ are in reality only indelible as compared with common writing ink, as they may all be removed with more or less facility by chemical reagents, assisted by mechanical means. They are intended chiefly for paper, pasteboard, and parchment. No. 5 is also used for glass and metal. See Marking Ink. In'dian Ink. Syn. China ink ; Atra- MENTUM Indicum, L. Prep. 1. Lampblack (finest) is ground to a paste with very weak liquor of potassa, and this paste is then dif- fused through %oater slightly alkalized with potassa, after which it is collected, washed with clean water, and dried; the dry powder is next levigated to a smooth, stiff paste, with a strong filtered decoction of carrageen or Irish moss, or of quince seed, a few drops of essence of musk, and about half as much essence of ambergris being added, by way of perfume, towards the end of the process; the mass is, lastly, moulded into cakes, which are orna- mented with Chinese characters and devices, as soon as they are dry and hard. 2. A toeak solution of fine gelatine is boiled at a high temperature in a Papin’s digester for 2 hours, and then in an open vessel for 1 hour more; the liquid is next filtered and evaporated to a proper consistence, either in a steam or salt-water bath; it is, lastly, made into a paste, as before, with pure lampblack which has been previously heated to dull red- ness in a well-closed crucible. Neither of the above gelatinize in cold weather, like the ordi- nary imitations. 3. (Gray.) Pure lampblack made up with asses’-skin glue, and scented with musk. 4. (Merimee.) Dissolve superfine glue in wafer, add a strong solution of nut-galls, and wash the precipitate in hot water ; then dis- solve it in a fresh solution of glue, filter, evaporate to a proper thickness, and form it into a paste as before, with purified lampblack. 5. (Proust.) As No. 1 (nearly). G. Seed-lac, | oz.; borax, dr.; water, 4- pint; boil to 8 oz., filter, and make a paste with pure lampblack, as before. When di*y, it resists the action of w'ater. Obs. The Chinese do not use glue in the preparation of their ink, bat an infusion or decoction of certain seeds abounding in a glu- tinous transparent mucilage, which at once imparts brilliancy and durability to the colour. Starch converted into gum bv means of suU