1109 PORTER. II) will also give results sufficiently near to te truth for ordinary purposes, when sti’oiig old beer is operated on. The quantity of [le liquor tested should be 3600 water-grains [easure j and it should be well agitated, with lee exposure to the air, afcer weighing it, but .Tore testing it for its alcohol. The weUjht of |:-C0H0L found, multiplied by 1*8587, gives (s equivalent in sugae. This may be con- hrted into ‘brewer's pounds' or densihj per \rrel, as below. (2. Richness in saccharine or extractive A like quantity of the liquor under the elliereal solution, which separates and floats on the surface, is decanted, evaporated, and the residuum tested, as before. The alkaline liquid, from which the ether has been de- canted, is then separated from any precipitate which may have formed, and both of these sepa- rately tested for alkaloids. h. From 2 to 3 oz.o>ipurified animal charcoal are diffused through ^ gall, of the beer, and is digested in it, with frequent agitation, for from 8 to 12 hours; the liquor is next filtered, and the charcoal collected on the filter is boiled with about ^ pint of rectified spirit; the j;ainination, after being boiled for some time j resulting alcoholic solution is then further ■ dissipate its alcohol, or the liquor from which treated as above, and tested. This answers \e alcohol has been distilled (see No. 1), is well for the detection of strychnine or nux ade up with distilled water, so as to be again I vomica. ;actly equal to 3600 water-grains measure. I 6. Picric acid. This substance, now so lie sp. gr. of the resulting liquid is then i commonly employed to impart bitterness to ken, and this is reduced to ‘ brewer's pounds' }r barrel, by multiplying its excess of nsity above that of water (or 1000) by 360, ul pointing off the three right-hand figures decimals. 3. Acetic acid or vinegar. This is de- rmined by any of the common methods of HDIMETRY (wliich See; see also Acetime- iy). Each grain of anhydrous acetic DID so found represents 1*6765 gr. of [JGAE. 4. Gravity of original wort. This is ob- ined by the addition of the respective quanti- es of saccharine matter found in Nos. 1, 2, ul 3 {above). These results are always ightly under the true original density of the London porter in lieu of hops, may be de- tected as follows: — a. A portion of the liquor agitated with a little solution of diacetate of lead loses its bitter flavour if it depends on /(Oj»s,but retains it if it depends on picric acid. b. Pure beer is decoloured and deodorized by animal charcoal; but beer containing picric acid, when thus treated, retains a lemon-yellow colour and the odour. c. Unbleached sheep's wool, boiled for six or ten minutes, and then washed, takes a canary-yellow colour if picric acid be present, 7. Mineral matter.—a. A weighed quan- tity of jyure beer evaporated to dryness, and ort, as cane sugar appears to have been taken | then incinerated, does not furnish more than V the Excise as the basis of their calculations. I from *20^ to *35g of ash, the quantity varying jlore correctly, 12g of is equivalent j within these limits with the strength of the n 10 lb. of saccharine per barrel. 10^ lb. | liquor and the character of the water used in f saccharine are equiv. to 1 gall, of proof brewing it. nrit. . 1 i. A solution of this ash, made by coction 5. Detection of narcotics. This may be with distilled water, should be only rendered fleeted either by the method described under j slightly turbid by solutions of acetate of lead, LKALOID {page 105), or by one or other of the , bichloride of platinum, nitrate of baryta, nitrate filowing processes :— ff silver, oxalate of ammonia, 'xaii sulphuretted \ gall, of the beer under examination is hydrogen. vaporated to dryness in a water bath; the j c. If the beer contained common salt, the esulling extract is boiled for 30 or 40 minutes | above solution will give a cloudy white preci- 1 a covered vessel with 10 or 12^. oz. solution of nitrate of silver. Each Icohol or strong rectified spirit, the mixture j grain of this precipitate is equivalent to | gr. eing occasionally stirred with a glass rod, to j of common salt (nearly), romote the action of the menstruum; the d. If green copperas {sulphate of iron) is Icoholic solution is next filtered, treated with j ferrideyanide of potassium gives a blue sufficient quantity of solution of diacetate of \ precipitate, and ferrocyanide of potassium a bluish-white one, turning dark blue in the air; solution of chloride of barium gives a white precipitate, each grain of which, after being washed, dried, and ignited, represents 1*188 gr. of CRYSTALLIZED PEOTOSULPHATE OF IRON. The ash, digested in water slightly acidu- ‘(id to precipitate colouring matter, and again Itered; the filtrate is treated with a few drops f dilute sulphuric acid, again filtered, and then v:\))orated to dryness; it may then be tested vith any of the usual reagents, either in the olid state or after being dissolved in distilled ‘‘ater. Or, the extract, obtained as above, may )c boiled as directed with rectified spirit, the olution filtered, the spirit distilled olF, and a anall quantity of pure liquor of potassa added 0 the acpieous residue, which is then to be fliaken up with about 1/. oz. of ether ; lastly, lated with nitric acid, and then boiled, yields a solution which, when cold, gives a black pre- cipitate with sulphuretted hydrogen, and a white one with dilute sulphuric acid, when lead is present. (See qmeje 351.)