BALSAM. 262 2. From guyn-henzohi and balsam of Peru, of each, 1 oz.; vanilla and nutmeg, of each (cut small), 1 dr.; Canada-balsam. | pint; digested as before, and some essential oils added to the decanted liquid. Balsam of Nut'meg. Syn. Bal'samum my- ms'Tic.5:, B. nucis't.®, L. Prep. (Ph. Bor. 1847.) Expressed oil of nutmeg (—? mace), 3 oz.; olive oil, 1 oz.; yellow wax, | oz.; melt them together by a gentle heat, pour the mixture into paper moulds, and, when cold, cut the mass up into cakes. Balsam of Peru' (-rob'). Syn. Peeu'yian BALSAM; Bal'SAMIJM PeEUVIA'NUM (Pll. L., E., and D.), L.; Baume du Peeou, B. Peeti- VIEN, Fr.; Peeuvianischee balsam, Ger. “ The balsam flowing from the incised trunk of uncertain species oimyrosper'mi (myroxyli).” Ph. L. It was formerly assigned exclusively to myrosper'mum peruif'erum (DC.; myrox'- ylonp., Linn.). Prop., Sfc. A chocolate-coloured or a reddish- brown liquid, of the consistence of treacle, possessing a bitterish, rather pungent taste, and an agreeable aromatic odour somewhat similar to that of a mixture of vanilla and benzoin. It is reputed stimulant, tonic, and expectorant, and has long been a popular re- medy in chronic asthma, catarrh, and other pulmonary affections, debility, &c. It is now, however, principally used as an ingredient in pommades, hair-oils, lip-salves, and other cos- metics, in which it is only inferior to ‘ balm of Mecca h and in compound perfumery. It is also used to scent lozenges, pastils, and cho- colate and liqueurs ; for these last, chiefly as a substitute for ‘vanilla^ when it is scarce and dear.—Dose. 10 or 12 to 30 gr. (even 1 dr. is sometimes given), either on sugar, or made into a bolus with liquorice powder, or into an emulsion with honey, mucilage, or yelk of egg. Pur., tests, —1, The sp. gr. should not be/o>/-<r than 1'15; nor higher 1'16 :— 2. Ether dissolves it readily and completely : — 3. Alcohol, in quantity, also dissolves it com- jilelely :—4. It should undergo no diminution in volume when agitated with water :—5. 100 gr., by its benzoic or cinnamic acid, should saturate not /mthan gr. of pure crystallised carbonate of soda:—6. Sulphuric acid con- verts it into resin, artificial tannin, or char- coal, according to the quantity employed; if, on adding water, a brittle resin is not formed, some fixed oil (probably castor oil) is present: —7. Treated with nitric acid some hydro- cyanic acid is formed, benzoic acid sublimes, and the residual matter is artificial tannin:— 8. The alkalies and their carbonates form with it a thickish semi-cryslalline mass, which, on being treated with sulphuric acid, deposits a peculiar resinous matter, with crystals of benzoic and cinnamic acid:—9. If a few drops are distilled, and, when iodine is added to the distillate, an exjjlosion results, it lias been adul- terated with ^ copaiba ’:—10. The genuine balsam contains about of benzoic (cin- namic) acid. Obs. Balsam of Peru w’as formerly very ji generally adulterated, and often entirely fac- !| titious; but, owing to its present reduced j | price, this is now only confined to a few of the j| most unpi’incipled venders. The following j formulse for this purpose are still extant in ! ‘ the trade — Facti"tious Balsam of Peru;—From gum- , benzoin (in coarse powder), 3 lb.; dissolved in i the least possible quantity of rectified spirit,. ‘ and then mixed with balsam of tolu, 1 lb.; and liquid styrax, 2 oz.; subsequently adding i of rectified spirit, q. s. Keduced' Peruvian Balsam:—!. Balsam of Peru, 3 lb.; balsam of tolu, 2 lb.; rectified i ■ sqnrit, q. s. to reduce it to a proper consist- en(!e:—2. Balsam of Peru, 3 lb.; gum-benzoin , ; (dissolved in a little rectified spirit), 1 lb.; as before. Balsam of Eackasi'ri. Syn. Balsam of Rakasi'ea; Bal'samum Rackasiei, B. Racaz- . ( zi'e.e, B. Rhadasi'ei. a species of balsamic turpentine, said to be obtained from the bur- sera balsamifera (Pers.), an Indian tree of the natural order, Terebinthacete. It has a slightly bitter taste, adheres to the teeth when chewed, and, when heated, smells like balsam ' ' of tolu. 11 has been extolled as possessing the virtues of copaiba in an exalted degree. The nostrum vended lender the name of balm of EACKASiEi by certain quacks, simply consists of English gin, coloured, sweetened, and aro- matised. Balsam of Saff'ron. See Eltxies. Balsam of Soap. Soap liniment. Balsam of Soap (Ethe"real). Syn. Bal'sa- mum sapo'nis ^tiie"eeum, L. Prep. (CottQ- reau.) Castile-soap (powdered) and camphor, of each, 1 dr.; oil of thyme, 10 drops ; acetic q ether, 1 oz. ; dissolve in a close vessel with the '') aid of a gentle heat, and decant the clear portion. Used as an embrocation or liniments in gout, rheumatism, &c. Balsam of St. John’s Wort. See Oils. Balsam of Sto"rax. Liquid-ambar or styrax. Balsam of Sul'phur. See Oils. Balsam of Syri'acum. See Balsam of Mecca and Patent Medicines. Balsam of Tolu' (-I’oo'). Syn. Tolu' bal'- SAM*; Bal'samum toluta'num (Ph. L., E., & D.), B. DE To'lu, L. ; Baume de Tolu, Fr.; Tolutanisciiee balsam, B. ton Tolu, &c,, Ger. “ Balsam flowing from the incised trunk ” of myrosper'mum toluif'erum** (more or less) “ hardened(Ph. L.) by exposure or age. The tree which produces it is a native of the mountains of Tolu, Turbaco, &c., in- South America. Prop., uses, Sj'c. When first brought over it is soft and tenacious, but by age and cai*eless i keeping becomes hard, and even brittle, some- what similar to resin. It is perfectly soluble in alcohol and in ether, and gives out its acid (benzoic or cinnamic) to water. Its odour is 1