566 ENTERITIS—EPILEPSY. one steel plate. This plate is then hardened, and an impression' of it taken on a softened steel roller. This roller, in its turn, is also hardened, and softened steel plates being passed under it, an impression precisely like that of the original plate is produced on each of them. These plates are then hardened and employed for printing the penny postage stamps for sale. They last a long time; and when they are worn out they are destroyed, and their place is supplied by fresh ones, which are produced by the cylinder before referred to, which continues ready to supply any number that may be required. Bank-note plates are re- produced in the same manner. See Electeo- TYPE, Etching, &c. ENTERI'TIS. See Inflammation of the Bowels. ENTOZO'A. Parasitic animals which infest the bodies of other animals. See Woems. ENURE'SIS. See Ueine. EPHIAL'TES. See Nightmaee. EPIDEM'IC. Common to many people. In pathology, an ‘ epidemic disease’ (epidemic ; | epidemy) is one which seizes a number of peo- ple at the same time and in the same place, but which is not dependent on any local cause, but on some extraordinary condition of the air. When a disease is peculiar to a people or nation, and appears to depend on local causes, it is said to be ‘ endemic’ or ‘ enchoeial.’ Thus, Asiatic choleea may be taken as an example of the first, and the agues of low countries, and the goitee of the Alps, as examples of the other. EPIGAS'TRIC. Ill anatomy, pertaining to the epigas'teium, or the part of the abdomen over the stomach. EPILEP'SY. Syn. Falling sickness; Epi- lepsia, Moebus caducus, L. The popular name of this disease arises from the patient, when attacked by it, suddenly falling to the ground. The other leading symptoms consist of convulsions, stupor, and, generally, frothing at the mouth. It comes on by fits, Avhich after a time go off, leaving a certain amount of lassitude and drov/siness behind. Sometimes certain peculiar symptoms precede the attack. Among these, a sensation of coldness or of a current of cold air from the extremities of the body towards the head (auea epileptica), palpitation, fiatulency, stupor, and an inde- scribable cloud or depression, are the most common. The occurrence of these symptoms are not, however, uniform, even in the same patient; but it generally happens that the party falls dov\n suddenly, and without the slightest warning. Epilepsy is often symptomatic of other affections, as excessive irritation of the primes vies from worms, indigestible or noxious food, or poison; or it depends on local injuries, parti- ticularly those of the head, accompanied with lodgments of water on the brain, tumours, pressure, &c. "NTolent aftections of the nervous system, sudden frights or fits of passion, violent mental emotions, the sudden suppression of old evacuations, and in childhood difficult teething, are also common causes of sym- pathetic epilepsy. Occasionally it arises from mobility of the sensorium, induced by plethora, or by excessive debility. In such cases the treatment must be energetically directed to the removal of the exciting cause. When epilepsy occurs as an idiopathic or primary affection, or cannot be referred to any apparent cause, more especially Avhen the attack commences about the age of puberty, and the fits are frequent, it is generally hereditary, and there is great danger of its terminating either in apoplexy, or lunacy or imbecility. The treatment of idiopathic epilepsy is principally directed to the improvement of the general health, and the diminution of nervous irritability by sedatives afid tonics. Among the first, camphor; ether, henbane, hemlock, music, oil of cajeput, opium, and morphia, and, more recently, hydrocyanic acid, have been principally relied on. Among the second, bark, cascarilla, quinine, strychnia, valerian, the sulphate of iron, zinc, and copper, arsenious acid, and nitrate of silver, have each their zealous advocates. The objection against the last preparation is the danger of its disfiguring the patient, by tinging the skin of a permanent dull, leaden hue. In cases accompanied with plethora, a low diet, daily out-of-door exercise, and the frequent use of aperients, with occa- sional blistering, cupping, and other depletive measures, are indicated; whilst in those marked by inanition and debility, an entirely opposite course must be adopted. When the disease is complicated with syphilis, a mild course of mercury may be given; and when with SCEOFULA, iodine, iodide of potassium, or cod-liver oil, assisted by sea-bathing, will be proper. Among other methods of treatment may be mentioned the administration of an active emetic or purgative, twice weekly, in the morning, when the stomach is em})ty. The first has now few supporters; but the second is said to be often productive of great benefit. During a fit of epilepsy the only thing that can be done for the patient is to prevent the sufierer injuring liimself, and to loosen every part of his dre.ss that presses on his head, neck, , or chest. 'When premonitory symptoms occur, j a brisk emetic, a large dose of laudanidm and ! ether, a cold plunge or shower bath (when not ! contra-indicated), or anything else which' gives a sudden shock to the system or raises its tone, frecpently prevents the accession of the fit. Epilepsy more frequently attacks children than adults, and boys than girls. “Its re- turns are (frecpently) periodical, and its ]>a- roxysms commence more frecpently in the night than in the day, being somewhat con- nected with sleep.” It is sometimes counter-