1356 YELLOW DYES—YELLOW PIGMENTS. whole well together, and, when the tempera- ture reaches 55° Eahr., add of beer yeast, 2 quarts; mix well, and in 24 hours after the commencement of the fermentation add of barley or bean flour, 7 lb.; make a uniform dough by thorough kneading, form it into small cakes, as above, and then preserve these in a dry situation. For use, one of these discs is to be broken into pieces, laid in tepid water, and set in a warm place during 12 hours, when the soft mass will serve the purpose of beer yeast. b. (Patent yeast.) Take of hops, 6 02.; ivater, 3 gall.; simmer for 3 hours, strain, and in 10 minutes stir in of ground malt, peck; next reboil the hops in water, as before, and let the strained liquor run into the first mash, which must then be well stirred up, covered over, and left for 4 hours; after that time drain off the wort, and, when the temperature has fallen to 90° Eahr., set it to work with yeast (preferably patent), 1 pint; after stand- ing for 20 to 24 hours in a warm place, take off the scum, strain it through a coarse hair sieve, and it will be fit for use. 1 pint is said to be enough for 1 bushel of bread. Obs. The preparation of artificial yeast, and substitutes for yeast, has long engaged the attention of both the scientific chemist and the practical tradesman. The subject is, undoubtedly, of great importance to emigrants and voyagers. The above processes, by good management, yield products which are all that can be desired. YEL'LOW DYES. The following substances impart a yellow' to goods, either at once or after they have been mordanted with alumina or tin :—annotta, barberry root, dyers broom, French berries, fustic, fustet, quercitron bark, and turmeric. Goods mordanted with acetate of lead, and afterwards passed through a bath of chromate of potash, acquire a brilliant ciiEOME-YELLOW colour;—Solution of sulphate or acetate of iron, followed by immersion in potash or lime water, gives a buee or OEANaE; —orpiment, dissolved in ammonia water, im- parts a GOLDEN YELLOW'. (See the above- named substances, in their alphabetical places.) An aniline yellow (cheysaniline) has recently been obtained by Mr. Nicholson, which is said to be a most valuable dye-stuff, comparable, indeed, with the aniline reds and purples. YELLOW FE"VER. The bilious remittent fever of hot climates. It is very common in the West Indies and the Southern States of America. New Orleans has been several times nearly depopulated by it. (See page 1168.) YELLOW PIG'MENTS. Of these the prin- cipal are— Brown Pink. Prep. Take of French ber- ries and pearlash, of each, 1 lb. ; fustic chips, \ lb. ; water, 2 gallons ; boil in a tin or pewter vessel, and strain the decoction through fiannel, whilst hot; then dissolve alum, 1^ lb., in hot water, 2^ gall.; add the solution to the strained decoction as long as a precipitate falls, which must afterwards be washed, drained, and dried. Some manufacturers omit the fustic. A good glazing colour, when ground in linseed, and used w'ith drying oil. Chrome Yellow. Syn. Cheomate oe lea.d, Y^ellow c. oe l. ; Plumbi cheomas. Plumb l j CHEOMAS ELATUM, L. The preparation of i the pure salt is noticed at page 826; that of ! the commercial pigment is as follows:— | 1. Add a filtered solution of nitrate or ace- tate of lead to a like solution of neutral chro- mate of potash, as long as a precipitate falls; then collect this, wash it well with clean soft water, and dry it out of the reach of sulphu- retted vapours. 2. To the lye of chromate of potash, pre- ' pared by roasting the chrome ore with nitre, and lixiviation with water, add a solution of acetate of lead, and otherwise proceed as be- fore. 3. Dissolve acetate of lead in warm water, and add of sulphuric acid, q. s. to convert it into sulphate of lead; decant the clear liquid (vinegar), wash the residuum with soft water, and digest it, with agitation, in a hot solution of neutral (yellow) chromate of potash, con- taining 1 part of that salt to every three parts of sulphate of lead operated on; afterwards decant the liquid, which is a solution of sul- phate of potash, and carefully drain, wash, and dry the newly formed pigment. The product contains much sulphate of lead, but covers as well, and has as good a colour, as pure chromate of lead, whilst it is much cheaper. The shade may be varied by in- creasing or lessening the quantity of the chromate.^ Obs. Four shades of this beautiful pigment are met with in the shops, viz., pale yellow or straw colour, yellow, deep yellow', and OEANGE. The former are made by adding a little alum or sulphuric acid to the so- lution of the chromate before mixing it with the solution of lead; the last, by the addition of a little subacetate of lead (tribasic acetate), or by washing the precipitate with a weak alkaline lye. The darker colour appears to arise from a little ‘ dicheomate’ being thrown down intimately mixed with the neutral chromate, and the paler shades from a slight excess of acid, or from the presence of water, sulphate of lead, and, occasionally, alumina. The colour is also infiuenced by the tempera- ture of the solutions at the time of admix- ture. Anthon has found that, when hot so- lutions of equal equivalents of acetate of lead | (190 parts) and chromate of potash (100 parts, | both; neutral and in crystals) are mixed, the | yellow precipitate, when dried, is anhydrous; I but when the mixture is made at ordinary | temperatures, the precipitate has a paler \ yellow, and when dried contains 1 eq., or ' nearly 5ig, of water. (‘Buch. Kept.’) It thus appears that the shades of colour of chrome yellow may be varied without any I Avmeiigaud’s “ Gink Industnel,'’ April, 1853.