PLATINUM. 1100 and all the ordinary acids, and even its polish is uninjured by the strongest heat of a smith’s forge; aqua regia, however, dissolves it, though with much more difficulty than gold; it is also superficially oxidized by fused hydrate of potassa. Spongy PLATINu:^f, powdeeed PLATINUM, and even perfectly clean plati- num FOIL, possess the remarkable property of causing the union of oxygen and hydrogen gases, with more or less elevation of tem- perature. (See Flameless Lamp, pa^e 821.) Platinum is precipitated from its solutions by deoxidizing substances under the form of a black powder (platinum black), Mdiich has the power of absorbing oxygen, and again imparting it to combustible substances, and thus causing their oxidation. In this way ALCOHOL and pyboxylic spieit may be con- verted into the a.cetic and foemic acids, &c. See Acetic Acid. Tes/s. 1. Sulphuretted hydrogen throws down from neutral and acid solutions of the peesalts of platinum a blacMsh-broum pre- cipitate, which is only formed after a time in the cold, but immediately on heating the liquid.—2. Hydrosulphuret of ammonia also gives a blackish-brown precipitate, which com- pletely redissolves in a large excess of the pre- cipitant, provided the latter contains an excess of sulphur.—3. Sal ammoniac and chloride of potassium give yellow crystalline precipitates, insoluble in acids, but soluble in excess of the precipitant, upon the application of heat, and decomposable by heat, with production of spongy platinum.—4. Ammonia and potassa also give similar precipitates in solutions pre- viously acidulated Avith hydrochloric acid. Estbn. This may be effected by throwing down the metal under the form of am- monio-chloride or potassio-ckloride, which, after being washed on a filter with a little -weak spirit to which a little of the precipitant has been added, and afterwards with the spirit alone, may be carefully dried at 212° Fahr., and Aveighed. Or, the precipitate may be ig- nited in a platinum crucible, and v/eighed under the form of spongy platinum. The ignited mass from the potassio-chloride should be Avell edulcorated Avith Avater, and ignited a second time, before Aveighing it. 193'25 gr. of the ammonio-chloride, and 244‘25 gr. of the potassio-chloride, are equivalent to 98’76 gr. of metallic platinum. See Assaying. Uses. Platinum is valuable for the forma- tion of crucibles, capsules, and other utensils or instruments intended to be exposed to a strong heat, or to the action of acids. Bi- CHLOEIDE and SODIO-CHLOEIDE OF PLATINUM are much used in chemical analysis. Both of these are also used in medicine with the same intentions, and in the same doses, as the cor- responding salts of gold. These compounds are poisonous. The antidotes and treatment are similar to those described under Gold. Concluding remarks. Deville and Debray have recently introduced a method of refning platinum, Avhich has already done much tc extend the useful applications of the metal The process consists in submitting the crude metal to the action of an intensely high tern- perature, obtained by the combustion of hy-i drogen (or coal-gas) Avith oxygen, in a crucibk of lime. By this means large quantities ot platinum (50 lbs. or more) can be kept fused until the sulphur, phosphorus, arsenic, and osmium, generally occurring in crude platinum, are oxidized and volatilized, and the iron and copper are oxidized and absorbed by the lime forming the crucible. At the International Exhibition of 1862 an ingot of pure platinum, weighing over 2 cwt., A\^as exhibited by Messrs/ Johnson & Mathey, as an illustration of the practical results of this process. (See below) Ammonio-chlo"ride of Platinum. Syn PlATINO-BICHLOEIDE of AMMONIUM; Pla- TINI AMMONIO-CHLOEIDUM, L. Prep. A SoUl- tion of sal ammoniac is added to a strong solu- tion of bichloride of platinum, avoiding excess, and the precipitate is collected on a filter, washed Avith a little weak alcohol, and dried at a heat not exceeding 180° Fahr. Prop., Sfc. Minute, transparent, yellow, octahedral crystals; very feebly soluble in water, less so in dilute alcohol, and insoluble in acids; heat converts it into spongy plati- num. Chlo'Tides of Platinum. Of these, tAvo are knoAvn:— 1. Protochlo"ride of Platinum. Syn. Plati- NOUS CHLOEIDE. Formed by exposing foi some time the dried and poAvdered bichloridi: to a temperature of 400° to 450° Fahr. A greenish-gray poAvder, insoluble in Avater, but soluble in hydrochloric acid. 2. Bichlo'Tide of Platinum. Syn. Platinic CHLOEIDE, ChLOEIDE OF PLATINUM J, PeE- CHLOEIDE OF P. ; PlATINI BICHLOEIDUM (Pll. L.), L. Prep. By dissolving platinum in nitro-hydrochloric acid, and e\’aporating the solution to dryness at a gentle heat. Pro;;., (S^c. Reddish-brown, deliquescent, and A'ery soluble in both Avater and alcohol, yielding orange-coloured solutions. It combines with ' a variety of metallic chlorides to form ‘double salts.’ Used as a test in chemical analysis, and as an alterative in secondary syphilis, &c. Dose. to 5 gr., dissolved in distilled Avater, or made into a pill with syrup and liquorice poAvder. Some j^ersons prescribe much larger doses, but unsafely. Hoefer recommends an ointment made Avith it as an application to indolent ulcers. In doses of 5 gr. and up- Avards, it acts as a violent caustic poison. Thi.' last salt is the ‘ chloeide of platinum ’ ol the shops, and the one used in the arts and medicine. It forms one of the tests included in the ‘ Appendix ’ to the Ph. L. Oxides of Platinum. With oxygen, plati- num forms two compounds :— 1. Protoxide of Platinum. Syn. Platinous OXIDE. Prep. By digesting protochloride oj platinum in a solution of jnire potassa.