261 BALSAM. fi’equently sold in the shops under the name of ‘ balsam of honey ’ See Pectoeal Balsam, &c. Balsam of Hore'houiid. Syn. Bal'samum MAERU'bii, L. Prep. 1. Extracts of hore- hound and liquorice, of each, 2 oz.; hot water, j pint; dissolve, and when cold, add of pare- goric, f pint; oxymel of squills, 6 oz.; tinc- ture of benzoin, 2 oz.; honey, 10 oz.; and, after thorough admixture, strain through flannel. 2. (Ford’s.) See Patent Medicines. Uses, ^c. A popular pectoral.—Dose, 8fc., same as of balsam of honey {above). Balsam of Houmi"ri. [Nat.] From humir'ia balsamif era, or the houmiri-tree of Guiana. It resembles ‘ balsam of umiri ’ produced by ano- ther tree of the same genus. (See below.) Balsam of Lead. See Goulard’s Balsam. Balsam of Life. Syn. Balm of life ; Bal'- samum VI't^, L. ; BaUME DE VIE, ElIX'iR DE VIE, &c., Fr. Several compound medicines have been ^ called by this name. Those of Gabius, Hoffman, and Turlington, are noticed under Patent Medicines (which see). The following are distinct preparations :— 1. Baume DE VIE EXTERNE:—Soap-liniment, 2 parts; oil of turpentine,! Y^rt-, mix. Stimu- lant and rubefacient. Used as a friction. 2. Baume de vie purgatif ; Elixir de vie: —a. (Briett.) Socotrine aloes and saffron, of each, 2 dr.; rhubarb, 6 dr.; liquorice-root, 1 oz.; proof spirit or brandy, ^ pint; digest a week, and filter. b. (Original Swedish formula.) Aloes, 9 dr. j agaric, gentian, rhubarb, saffron, theriaca, and zedoary, of each, 1 dr.; proof spirit or brandy, 1 quart. A mild stomachic purge.— Dose. 1 to 6 dr. Tincture of rhubarb-and- aloes (Ph. E.) is commonly substituted for it. See Elixirs. Balsam of Liq'uorice. See Patent Medi- cines. Balsam of Mec'ca. Stjn. Balm of Gil'ead, B. OF Mec'ca, Opobal'sam (-bawd'-), Jews’ BALSAMf, Oil of B.f, &c., Eng.; Bal'samum (bM'-) GILEADEN'SE, B. E MeC'CA, OpOBAL'SA- MUM (-bal'-)j &c., L. ; Baume de la Mecque, B. DE Mecca*, B. de Judee, Opobalsamum, &c., Fr. j Bal'samum dEGYPTi'ACUMf, B. Al- Pl'Nlf, B. ANTIQU0"RUM GENUl'NUMf, B. ASIAT'lCUMf, B. SYRl'ACUMf, O'LEUM BAL'- SAMif, &c., L. A fragrant oleo-resinous sub- stance, obtained from balsamoden'dron gilea- den'se (Kunth.; am’yris gileaden'sis, Linn, j a. opobaVsamum, Forsk), a middle-sized tree of the nat. ord. Terebinthacese (DC.), growing in Arabia Felix, Asia Minor, and Egypt. It is the BALM of the Old Testament, and the (ooXtrayou of Theophrastus and Dioscorides. It is chemically classed with the ‘turpen- tines.’ Prop., &^'c. When fresh it is turbid and whitish, but becomes by degrees transparent, of a rich golden colour, and slightly thicker; and by exposure, eventually solid. It i)os- sesses a peiietri^ting and delicate fragrance; tastes sharp, bitter, spicy, and somewhat astringent; is not entirely soluble in rectified spirit, but dissolves more or less completely in both the fixed and volatile oils, which then assume the fragrance of the balsam. A drop let fall on hot water, spreads itself over the whole surface, like a film of oil, and again contracts on the water cooling. This, with its fragrance, is the common test of its genuine- ness in Turkey. The inferior qualities, or those of commerce, are generally opaque and thick, rapidly resinifying and turning of a dull yellow by age. When applied to the skin it causes redness and swelling. It was formerly regarded as possessing the most varied and exalted virtues, particularly as an antiseptic, stimulant, vulnerary, and nervine; and its fumes were supposed to prevent barrenness. It is still highly prized in the East as a cos- metic and perfume; and is said to be un- equalled for giving a healthy glow to the complexion and promoting the growth of the hair. Its medicinal qualities are intermediate to those of the aromatic turpentines and balsam of tolu.—Dose. From 3 to 6, or even 10 or 12 drops. Obs. According to Bruce, and others, the best balm of Gilead is a spontaneous exudation from the tree; a second quality is obtained by cutting the bark with an axe, and receiving the juice which exudes in a small earthen bottle. A large branch is said to produce not more than 3 or 4 drops a day; and even the most resinous trees seldom yield more than 60 drops daily. Hence its scarcity and cost- liness. Both varieties are held in such high estimation by the Turks and Egyptians, that none of them are exported as an article of commerce. “There are only two shops in Constantinople at which the genuine balsam can be obtained. Its price is exorbitant— one grain being charged 5 Turkish piastres, or l.v. 0\d. English.” That which is sent to England is obtained by boiling the leaves and young twigs of the balsam tree in water, and is rejected by the Orientals as worthless. Most of that sold in the shops of England is entirely spurious (see below). The cosmetics recently so much advertised as ‘ BALM OF Mecca,’ do not contain even a trace of this article; nor do we believe that there is a single drop of the genuine balm to be purchased in London. The following formulae are current in ‘ the trade’ for Fac''titious Balm of Mecca:— 1. Gum-benzoin (bright, coarsely pow’dered), 4 oz.; liquid styrax (finest), 3 oz. ; balsam of tolu, 2 oz.; Canadian balsam, 1^ pint; are mixed together in a flask, and exposed (closed) to the heat of a water-bath, >vith frequent agitation, until the liquid is saturated; wdien cold, the clear portion is decanted, and a I a strong aromatic odour.