974 OILS (VOLATILE). one containing alcohol, and the resulting solu- tion separates, forming a distinct stratum at the bottom of the vessel. When only a very little alcohol is present, the pieces merely change their form, and exhibit the action of the solvent on their angles or edges, which become more or less obtuse or rounded. Another test for alcohol in the essential oils is the milkiness occasioned by agitating them with a little water, as well as the loss of volume of the oil when it separates after repose for a short time. A more delicate test of alcohol in the essen- tial oils than either of the preceding is potas- sium, as employed by M. Beral:—12 drops of the oil are placed on a perfectly dry watch- glass, and a piece of potassium, about the size of an ordinary pin’s head, set in the middle of it. If the small fragment of metal retains its integrity for 12 or 15 minutes, no alcohol is present; but if it disappears after the lapse of 5 minutes, the oil contains at least 4g of alcohol; and if it disappears in less than 1 minute, it contains not less than 25g of al- cohol. This species of adulteration is very common, as it is a general practice of the druggists to add a little of the strongest rectified spirit to their oils, to render them transparent, espe- cially in cold weather. Oil of cassia is nearly always treated in this way. The admixture of an inferior essential oil with one more costly may be best detected by pouring a drop or two on a piece of porous paper or cloth, and shaking it in the air, when, if occasionally smelled, the difference of the odour at the beginning and the end of the evaporation will show the adulteration, espe- cially if the added substance is turpentine. The presence of the latter may also be detected by agitating the oil with rectified spirit, when it will remain undissolved. The purity of essential oils may likewise, in many cases, be determined by taking their sp. gr. j or, with still greater accuracy and con- venience, by measuring their index of refrac- tion, as suggested by Dr. Wollaston. A single drop of oil is sufficient for the application of the last method. The adulteration of a heavy oil with a light one, or the reverse, may be detected by agi- tating the suspected oil with water, when, in most cases, the two will separate and form distinct strata. Uses, S^c. The volatile oils are chiefly used by perfumers and rectifiers, and in medicine. Some of the cheaper kinds are largely em- ployed as vehicles for colours, and in the manu- facture of varnishes. The dose of the aromatic and carminative oils is from 1 to 10 drops, on sugar, or dissolved in a little weak spirit. This does not apply to oil of bitter almonds, the dose of which is ^ to ^ a drop. The following list includes short notices of nearly all the volatile oils which have been examined, as well as of some other substances of a similar character, which commonly pass under the name: Oil of Allia'ria. From the roots of Alliaria officinalis, or sauce-alone. Identical with the OIL OF BLACK MUSTARD. Oil of AU'spice. See Oil of Pimento. Oil of ATmonds. See Oil of Bitter Al- monds. Oil of American Arbor Vitse, Syn. Huile CEDRE BLANC, Fr. From the fresh tops of Thuja occidentalis, or American arbor-vitce tree. Yellow; fragrant; stimulant. Used in fric- tions for rheumatism. Prod. 1| to 2g (nearly). Oil of Angelica. From the dried root of Angelica Archangelica. Prod. ’25g (fully). Oil of Aniseed. Syn. Oleum anisi (Ph. L. E. & D.), O. essentials anisi, L. From the fruit (seeds) of Pimpinella anisum, or anise. Nearly colourless. It is very frequently adul- terated with one or other of the cheaper oils, in which case spermaceti or camphor is added to it, to make it ‘ candy.’ Prop., ^c. When pure, it congeals into a solid crystalline mass on being cooled to 50° Fahr., and does not melt again until heated to about 63°. Treated with iodine, it quickly congeals into a solid hard mass, with a per- ceptible increase of temperature, and the de- velopment of orange-coloured and gray fumes. Sulphuric acid, with heat, turns it of a rich purple-red colour, and the compound soon after- wards becomes inspissated and hard (resinified). In alcohol of -806 it is soluble in all propor- tions, but rectified spirit (-838) dissolves only 42g of this oil. Sp. gr. {recent) -9768; {one year old) *9853 to *9855; {old) -9856 to -9900. The foreign oil is generally the heaviest. Oil of aniseed is carminative and pectoral; and both itself and preparations have long been in favour with the masses in coughs, colds, &c. In preparing it, care must be taken that the temperature of the water in the receiver and refrigerator does not fall lower than about 68° Fahr. Prod. (From the dried fruit of commerce) av. 22 (nearly). See Oil OF Star-anise. Ap'ple Oil. See Amtle (Valerianate of), and Essence of Apple. Oil of Ar'nica. Syn. Oleum arnic.®, 0. a. RADICUM, L. From the roots of Arnica mon- tana. Yellowish-brown. Sp. gr. -940. Prod. IQ lb. yielded loz. of oil. The oil from the fiowers of arnica is blue. Oil of Asarabac'ca. Syn. Oleum asari, 0. ASARi LiQUiDUM, L. From the roots of Asa- rum Europceum. Yellow; glutinous. Two butyraceous oils pass over at the same time. Oil of Asafoet'ida. Syn. Oleum asa- FCETiD^, L. From the yum resin. Contains sulphur. Very fetid and volatile. . Oil of Balm. Syn. Oleum melisSjE, L. ^ From the herb {Melissa officinalis). Pale yel- low; fragrant. Sp. gr. ’970 to'975. Prod. 100 lb. of the fresh flowering herb yielded \ oz. ^ of oil. (M. Eaybaud.) A mixture of oil of ~ lemons and rosemary is commonly sold for it.