771 INFUSION. f ■j Astringent; in diarrhoea, and externally as a i wash to remove freckles. Infusion of Scntella"ria. Syn. Infusum SCIJ- p TELLARi^, L. Prep. (Dr. Spalding.) Dined il herb of Scutellaria lateriflora, in powder, •;i teaspoonful; boiling water, 1 pint. By tea- i;' cupfhls, thrice daily, to prevent hydrophobia. Infusion of Sen'ega. Syn. Infusion of 1. KATTLE-SNAKE HOOT, SeNEKA TEA j InFUSUM i| SENEOJE (Pll. E.) j I. POLYGALiE (Ph. D.), L. ’.j Prep. 1. (Ph. E.) Senega snake roo/(bruised), <■! 10 dr. J boiling water, 1 pint j infuse for 4 hours ij in a covered vessel, and strain. : I 2. (Ph. D.) Polygala root, ^ oz.; boiling •I water, 9 fl. oz. Stimulant, expectorant, and 11 diuretic, either alone or combined with am- ^ 1 inonia; in catarrhs, &c. See Decoction, £x- i TRACT, &c. [ Infusion of Sen'na. Syn. Senna tea ; In- '1 FUSUM SENN^ (Ph. E.), I. SENN.P) COMPOSITUM pi (Ph. L. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Senna, 1 15 dr.; ginger (bruised), 4 scruples; boiling \i water, 1 pint; macerate for an hour in a co- « vered vessel, and strain. ! 2, (Ph. E.) Senna, 1^ oz.; ginger, 4 scrup.; i boiling water, 1 pint. (See No. 9, below.) t 3. (Ph. D.) Senna, ^ oz.; ginger, ^ dr. ; J boiling water, ^ pint. Purgative. Dose. 1 to f 2 wine-glassAals. It is usually given in doses ( of 1 to 1| fl. oz., combined with 3 to 6 dr. of * Epsom salts, or other saline purgative, under ■ the name of ^ black draught.^ Obs. This infusion is very apt to spoil in ' warm weather, to prevent which Mr. Squire recommends the addition of 1 gr. of nitrate of potassa to each ounce. 4. (Concentrated; Infusum senN/E con- ' centratum, L.) —a. Senna, 2 lb. 1 oz.; tepid I water, 1 quart, macerate for 12 hours, fre- quently stirring with a stick, and express the I liquor; to the * marcf add of tepid water, pint, repeat the maceration for 3 hours, and again express the liquor with power- I ful pressure; mix the infusions, and after I 2 hours’ repose decant the clear portion, and evaporate it as rapidly as possible, by steam or a chloride of sodium hath, until it measures lipint; pour this into a strong bottle, and when nearly cold, add of rectified spirit, ^ pint; bruised ginger, 3^ oz. ; macerate a week with frequent agitation, and after repose for a few days decant the clear portion, and add dilute spirit (1 to 4), q. s. to make the whole measure exactly a quart. b. Take 8 times the quantity of senna and ginger ordered in the Ph. L., put them into a displacement apparatus, either alone or mixed with clean washed sand, and transmit water, mixed with ith part of rectified spirit, through the mass, until the proper quantity of infusion is obtained. c. (Wholesale.) Alexandrian senna (best), I 7 lb.; unbleached Jamaica ginger (finest, j bruised), 3 lb.; rectified spirit and water, of I each, 1 gall.; macerate for 14 days, press out I the fluid, filter, and set it aside in a well- corked bottle; then take of good East India senna, 25 lb.; and the ‘pressings^ ov‘marc* from the tincture, and macerate in the least possible quantity (10 or 12 gall.) of cold dis- tilled water, for 12 or 14 hours, employing fre- quent agitation with a wooden spatula; next press out the liquid, and again macerate the ‘marc’ in cold distilled water (5 or 6 gall.) for 2 hours; press, mix the two liquors, strain, heat gradually to the boiling point, carefully separate the coagulated albumen, and after- wards evaporate as quickly as possible to ex- actly 9 quarts; put the liquid at once into a vessel capable of holding 5 gallons, bung close to exclude the air, and when nearly cold add the ‘ tincture' obtained from the Alexandrian senna and the ginger: the whole must now be well agitated together, and allowed to stand for a week, when the clear portion must be carefully decanted into bottles (* Winchester quarts’) for sale. d. As the last, but employing hot water, and limiting the period of the infusions to 2 hours and 1 hour. Obs. The preceding formulse are at present employed in the wholesale trade, by nearly all those houses that are most noted for the su- perior quality of their ‘ concentrated in- fusions.’ The products of the whole are excellent. That from c is very beautiful, and contains all the valuable active matter that it is possible to extract from the ingre- dients, under the circumstances. It also keeps well. The last one, like all preparations of senna made with hot water, is apt to drop a large deposit on standing, from which the last portion of the infusion is obtained with diffi- culty. They each furnish a liquid, of which 1 fl. dr. added to 7 fi. dr. of pure water forms 1 fl. oz. of a preparation precisely similar in medicinal qualites to the ‘infusum sennx: COMP.—Ph. L.’ From the extreme bulkiness of senna, it has become a practice with certain unprin- cipled druggists to employ only ^ or of the proper quantity of that drug, and to add burnt sugar or treacle to bring up the con- sistence and colour, and alkaline solution of gamboge to impart the necessary purgative quality. Concentrated infusion of senna, as generally met with, is nearly worthless. This arises from either the employment of inferior senna, or the destruction of its active principle, by the lengthened exposure to heat and atmospheric oxygen during itsmanufacture. 5. (With COFFEE; Infusum sennx: cum CAFFEa, L.)—a. (Foy.) Senna, 2 dr.; roasted coffee (ground), 1 dr.; boiling water and hot milk, of each, 3 fl. oz.; infuse for 12 hours (4 ?), and strain. For an adult; to be taken in the morning fasting. b. (Guersand and Blake.) Senna, 10 to 30 gr. (according to age) ; hot coffee and hot milk, at will; infuse, and when cold, strain, and sweeten it with sugar, q. s. As a purge for children.