OKANGEADE—ORES. 1014 terior (yellow) rintV^ of tlie Citrus Biga- radia,” or bitter orange, “ dried in the months of February, March, or April.” (Ph. L.) See CANDTiNa, Infusion, Issue Peas, Oils (Vo- latile), &c. ORANGEADE'. Syn. Oeange Sheebet. From oranges or orange flavour, in the same way as lemonade from lemons, &c. OR'ANGE CHROME. Prep. 1. From a solution of chromate of potash and diacetate of lead, as chrome yellow. 2. From chrome yellow or chromate of lead, by acting on it with a weak alkaline lye until suihciently darkened. Used as a pigment. ORANGE DYES. These are produced from mixtures of red and yellow dyesjin various proportions; or by passing the cloth, pre- viously dyed yellow, through a weak red bath. A very ^ooiS. fugitive orange may be given with annotta, by passing the goods through a solu- tion made with equal parts of annotta and pearlash, or, still bettor, through a bath made of 1 part of annotta, dissolved in a lye of 1 part each of lime and pearlash, and 2 parts of soda. The shade may be eeddened by passing the dyed goods through water acidulated with vinegar, lemon juice, or citric acid, or through a solution of alum. The goods are sometimes passed through a weak alum mordant before immersion in the dye-bath. See Annotta, Dyeing, &c. ORANGE RED. Syn. Sandix. From white lead, by calcination, in a nearly similar man- ner to that by which red lead is prepared from the protoxide. Brighter than red lead j used wholly as a pigment. OR'ANGERY. The gallery, building, or en- closure in a garden, in which orange trees are preserved or cultivated, to shield them from the effects of the external winter, or to assist their growth by artificial heat. OR'CHARD. See Cidee. OR'CEIN. Syn. Lichen lake. A brown- ish-red powder, obtained by dissolving orcin in liquor of ammonia, exposing the solution to the air, and then precipitating with dilute acetic acid. It is nearly insoluble in water, but dis- solves freely in solutions of ammonia and the fixed alkalies, with the production of a rich j)urple or violet colour. It probably consti- tutes ^the leading tinctorial ingredient in ae- CHIL, CUDBEAE, and LITMUS. (See below.) OR'CHIL. See Aechil. OR'CIN. The general product of the de- composition of the acids obtained from the tinctorial lichens under the influence of heat or the alkaline earths. Prep. 1. The powdered lichen is treated with boiling alcohol, the tincture filtered whilst liot, and again after it has become cold; the alcohol is then removed by distillation, and the remainder evaporated to the consistence of a syrup; this is redissolved in water, and the solution is again fdtered and evaporated to a sju’up ; it is then set aside some days, in a cool place, and the crystals of orcin which form are collected, and dried by pressure in bibulous' paper. Impure. 2. Lecanoric or orsenillic acid (impure will, do) is boiled in baryta water, and the excess of * baryta is precipitated by carbonic acid ; the fil- tered liquid is then evaporated to a small bulk,, and set aside to crystallize, as before. Prop., ^-c. Large, square, prismatic crystals; slightly yellowish; intensely sweet; very so- luble in both water and alcohol; melt to a syrupy liquid, and then distil unchanged. Al- kalies decompose it; when exposed to the air, it gradually reddens. (See above.) OR'ELLINE. The name sometimes given to PUEIFIED ANNOTTA. The commercial an- notta is dissolved in an alkaline solution, either caustic or carbonated, and then precipitated by an acid. ORES. The mineral bodies from which metals are obtained. The processes adopted for this purpose constitute opeeatite metai- LUEGT; those by which their value is deter- mined, mineeal assaying. The last only will be noticed here. Assay. Three general methods are adopted for this purpose:— 1. (Mechanical.) This consists inpulverizing the ore by any convenient method, and ex- pertly washing a given weight of it (say 1000 gr.) in a wooden bowl or capsule with water, so as to remove the ‘ earthy gangues’ from the denser and valuable metallic matter in such a way that none of the latter may be lost. This is the common plan adopted with aueifeeous SANDS, the GEES OF TIN after they have passed the stamping-mill, galena, geay antimony, &c,, and may either be employed as an inde- pendent process or merely as preparatory to - more exact investigations. When galena is < thus tested, the product is a nearly pure sul- phuret of lead, of which every grain is equi- valent to *8666 of METALLIC LEAD, the rest being sulphue. The results with gray anti- mony ore are still more direct, since the pro- duct is only melted into pigs before being sent to market. In this state it contains 73§ (nearly) of METALLIC ANTIMONY. 2. (Humid.) Assays in the ‘humid way' are true chemical analyses, and are described under the head ‘ Estim.’ attached to most of the more important minerals noticed in this work. This plan offers greater facilities and gives more accurate results than either of the other methods. 3. (Dey.) Of the methods of assay in the ‘ dry way,’ the following are the most ac- curate, generally useful, and easily applied:— a. (Dr. Abiche.) The mineral is reduced to powder, and mixed with 5 or 6 times its weight of carbonate of baryta, also in powder; this mixture is fused at a white heat in a platinum crucible, and the resulting slag, after being powdered, is exhausted with hydrochloric acid. This process answers well with both stony and metallic minerals, the most refractory of which give way under this treatment.