897 MERCURY. the process modified so as to nearly resemble Reinsch’s test for arsenious acid. According to Orfila, “ scraped copper plate ” is capable of detecting the presence of gn^g^gth part of cor- j rosive sublimate in a solution. MM. Trousseau j and Reveil state that a plate of yellow copper I (brass) is even more susceptible than one of I red copper. I /. (Smithson’s electrolytic test.) This con- sists in the use of a polished wire or plate of gold or copper round which a strip or thread of zinc or tin is wound in a spiral direction. The suspected liquid is acidulated with a few drops of hydrochloric acid, and after immersion for a longer or a shorter period (as half an hour to an hour or two), the gold will have become white if any mercury is present. The coil of I zinc or tin is then removed from the gold, and : the latter, after being washed and dried i between the folds of bibulous paper, is heated in a test-tube, to obtain metallic globules, as I before. Susc. of corrosive sublimate, j y. (Danger & Flandin.) The apparatus of these eminent chemists depends upon the same principle as the preceding. It consists of a vessel tapering at its lower part into a tube I with an opening almost capillary, so that the j fluid may flow out of it at the rate of about 1 I drop in 5 seconds, and then be caught in a I capsule for further experiment. The liquid to I be tested is placed in this vessel, and a gold i wire attached to the electro-positive pole of a i ‘ Bunsen’s battery ’ is placed in it (observing that it passes down into the contracted part), and another gold wire attached to the negative I pole is introduced into the opening at the j lower end of the contracted part. The battery 1 being excited in the ordinary way, a current 1 is established, which causes the precipitation ! of the mercury upon the gold wire attached j to the negative pole; and however small may j be the quantity of the mercurial compound, I it is manifested by this process; and on heating I tlie gold, or treating it by nitric acid, the mer- I cury is removed, and may be examined in any I other manner. A false, or tin stain, may be i distinguished from a mercurial one by its solu- j bility when the whitened gold is put into con- 1 centrated hydrochloric acid. Susc. Fully i P^rt of corrosive sublimate, or ; part of metallic mercury, j h. An ingenious extemporaneous application I of the electrolytic test may be made as follows ; . —Place a drop or two of the suspected liquid ' on a clean and bright gold or copper coin, ' and apply a bright key, so that it may at once I touch the edge of the coin and the solution. I (See engr^ An electric current will then be : established as before, and a white spot of re- 1 duced mercury will appear on the surface of ! the metal, which may be recognised in the manner already explained, j 3. The salts of the suboxide of mercury I (gray oxide) are distinguished by the following 1 reactions:— I a. Sulphuretted hydrogen and hydrosul- phuret of ammonia give blacJc precipitates^ which are insoluble in dilute acids, hydrosul- phuret of ammonia, cyanide of potassium, and hot nitric acid; but are readily dissolved with decomposition by ‘ aqua regia.’ b. Potassa and ammonia give dark gray or black precipitates, which are insoluble in excess of the precipitant. c. Hydrochloric acid and the soluble me- tallic chlorides occasion a precipitate, which assumes the form of a very fine powder of dazzling whiteness, insoluble in excess, but soluble in aqua regia and liquid chlorine. Caustic potassa and ammonia turn it dark gray or black, d. Iodide of potassium gives a greenish-yeU low j)recipitate, soluble in ether, and subliming in red crystals when heated. 4. The salts of the protoxide of mercury (red oxide) are known as follows :— a. Sulphuretted hydrogen and hydrosul- phuret of ammonia, added in very small quan- tities, produce on agitation a perfectly white precipitate, which acquires successively a yel- low, orange, and brownish-red colour, as more of the test is added; and, ultimately, when the test is added in considerable excess, an intensely black colour. This precipitate is insoluble in excess of the precipitant, potassa, cyanide of potassium, hydrochloric acid, or nitric acid, even when boiling; but it dis- solves readily and completely in sulphuret of potassium, and in ‘ aqua regia’ with decom- position. These reactions are characteristic. b. Ammonia gives a white precipitate. c. Potassa gives a reddish precipitate, turn- ing yellow when the test is added in excess. The presence of ammonia causes the precipi- tate to be white, and when the solution con- tains much acid both reactions are imperfect. d. Alkaline carbonates give a brick-red pre- cipitate. e. Iodide of potassium gives a scarlet pre- cipitate, Avhicli is soluble in excess, and in alcohol, and solution of chloride of sodium. f. The alkaline bicarbonates either do not disturb the solution, or only cause a slight degree of opalescence. 5. Solid bodies, supposed to contain mercury, may be treated w ith nitric acid, the solution evaporated to dryness, and the solid residuum dissolved in w'atcr, when the filtered solution may be submitted to the usual tests. For detecting mercury in pill-masses, Ac., Parrish recommends the following convenient test:—