823 LAVA—LEAD. I LA'VA. The matter thrown out by vol- I canoes. The beautiful ornamental vases, j jugs, and other objects sold under the name, ) are a superior sort of unglazed coloured porce- I lain. ! LAVE'MENT. See Enema. [ LAV'ENDER. The flowers or flowering tops 1 of Lavandula vera or common garden lavender. I An essential oil, spirit, and tincture, prepared from it, are officinal in the Pharmacopoeias. ! Red Lavender. See Tincture. I Smith’s British Lavender. Prep. From ' English oil of lavender, 2 oz.; essence of amber- gris, 1 oz.; eau de Cologne, 1 pint; rectified spirit, I quart. Very fragrant. See Water (Lavender). LAX'ATIVES. Syn. Lenitives ; Laxa- 1 TiVA, Laxantia, Lenitiva, L. Mild purga- I tives or cathartics. The principal of these are—almond oil, cassia pulp, castor oil, con- I fection of senna, cream of tartar, figs, grapes, I honey, phosphate of soda, prunes, salad oil, tamarinds, &c. LAY'ERS. Among gardeners, a mode of propagating plants, by laying down the shoots or young twigs, and covering a portion of them with the soil, without detaching them from the parent plant. To facilitate the rooting of such layers, the part beneath the soil is fractured by twisting or bruising it, or it is partly cut through with a sharp knife, immediately under a bud. When the layer has taken root, it is divided from the parent stem, and transplanted or potted. In this way, with a little care, nearly all plants may be multiplied. LEAD. Syn. Plumbum, L. This metal, like gold, silver, and iron, appears to have been known in the most remote ages of anti- 1 quity. The ore from which it is almost ex- clusively extracted (being the only one found in abundance) is the native sulphide or sul- PHURET OF LEAD, Called by mineralogists ‘ GALENA.^ Prep. On the large scale, lead is ! obtained by roasting galena in a ‘ reverberatory I furnace, and smelting the residue along with coal and lime. Pure lead for chemical purposes may be obtained— ! !• By reducing nitrate of lead with char- coal. 2. By heating the oxide left by igniting pure acetate of lead with black flux. Obs. The lead of commerce is nearly pure, the softest specimens being the purest. Prop., Sfc. The general properties of lead are too well known to require notice here. The sp. gr. of that of commerce is about 11’35; but in a state of absolute purity, its greatest density is 11’45. It melts at about 600'^ Fahr., and when very slowly cooled, crys- tallizes in octahedrons. At a white heat it boils, and is volatilized. When exposed to moist air, it soon becomes covered with a gray j film, presumed to be the suboxide. It is scarcely acted on by the hydrochloric, sul- phuric, and vegetable acids, unless in free contact with air, and then very slowly; but nitric acid rapidly oxidizes it, forming a solution of nitrate of lead. Pure water, put into a leaden vessel, and exposed to the air, soon corrodes it, and dissolves the newly formed oxide; but river and spring water have little action upon lead, provided there is no free carbonic acid present, the carbonates and sul- phates in such waters destroying their solvent powers. It has been found that l-30,000th part of phosphate of soda or of iodide of potas- sium, dissolved in distilled water, prevents its corrosive action on this metal. (Christison.) The lead in contact with such water gradually becomes covered with a superficial film of an insoluble salt of lead, which adheres tena- ciously, and prevents further change. From this it appears that ordinary water (‘ hard water’), which abounds in mineral salts, may be safely kept in leaden cisterns; but distilled water and rain water, and all other varieties that contain scarcely any saline matter, speedily corrode, and dissolve a portion of lead, when kept in vessels of that metal. When, how- ever, leaden cisterns have iron or zinc fasten- ings or braces, a galvanic action is set up, the preservative power of saline matter ceases, and the water speedily becomes contaminated with lead, and unfit for consumption as a beverage. Water containing free carbonic acid also acts on lead; and this is the reason why the water of some springs (although loaded with saline matter), when kept in leaden cisterns, or raised by leaden pumps, possesses unwholesome pro- perties. Free carbonic acid is evolved during the fermentation or decay of vegetable matter, and hence the absolute necessity of preventing the leaves of trees falling into water-cisterns formed of lead. The neglect of this precau- tion gave rise to the violent ravages of colic that are recorded to have visited Amsterdam about the middle of the last century. The ‘EAU DE rose’ and the ‘eau d’orange’ of commerce, which are pure distilled water hold- ing in solution small quantities of essential oil, and are imported in leaden canisters, always contain a small quantity of lead, and deposit a sediment, which is not the case when they are kept in glass or incorrodible vessels. Lead and all its preparations are highly poisonous; and whether imbibed in almost infinitesimal quantities with our daily beverages and food, or swallowed in larger and appreciable doses, is productive of the most disastrous conse- quences, the real cause, in the former case, being, unfortunately, seldom suspected. Tests. 1. The oxides and salts of lead, mixed with a little carbonate of soda, and exposed on a charcoal support to the reducing flame of the blowpipe, readily yield a soft and ductile globule of metallic lead, and the char- coal, at the same time, becomes covered with a yellowish incrustation of oxide of'lead.—2. Both metallic lead and its oxides are soluble in nitric acid, furnishing a solution which may