FIRE. 645 i Prcv. This consists of the exercise of those [ordinary precautions which the good sense lof every careful and trustworthy man, be he [taskmaster or servant, cannot fail to suggest. [It would be useless to enumerate them. 1 Fires might often be readily extinguished [when first discovered by the timely appli- Ication of a few buckets of water. Wlien an apartment is found to be on fire, the door, [chimney, and windows should be immediately [dosed, if possible, and only opened for the purpose of projecting water on the flames. Illy this means, the supply of air will he cut lolf, and rapid combustion prevented. The same applies to the lower doors and windows |of a house (especially the shop window), which lare often injudiciously kept open or x’emoved, 'under the pretence of rendering assistance. Tlie neglect of this precaution has often caused a mere smouldering fire, that might have been easily put out, to burst into an inextinguish- able mass of flame. It has been proposed at various times to make certain additions to the water used for the purpose of extinguishing fires, in order to render its action more certain and effective. lit is found that sal ammoniac (5 oz. to the \yall.) exerts this property in a remarkable de- gree. Several other articles, as common salt, \pearlash, and kitchen soda, act in the same [way, though less efl'ectively. A few buckets of such water will speedily arrest the progress of a fire before it has much extended itself. Such a plan is easily applied, by adding the saline matter to the buckets of water, which are either used by hand, or to feed the engine for the first few minutes of its working. When, however, a fire has made much progress, the action of such substances becomes scarcely [perceptible. i Chimneys on fire are readily extinguished I in several ways, without having recourse to throwing water down them from the top, by which much damage is frequently done to the furniture in the rooms. One of the simplest methods is, to cautiously scatter a handful of flovjers of sulphur over the dullest part of the burning coals j the sulphurous vapours, being incapable of supporting combustion, rapidly extinguish the flames. Another method is, to \shut the doors and windoivs, and to stop up the \botlom of the chimney with a piece of wet carpet or blanket, throwing a little water or flowers of \sidphur, or even common salt, on the fire im- j mediately before doing so. By this means [the draught is stopped, and the burning soot [extinguished for want of air. In many of the j first-class houses recently erected, ^fire-jiloce \shuttcrs' are provided, which, when partly i drawn down, act as powerful bellows or ‘blowersF and which, when wholly drawn down, so as to touch the hearth-stone, entirely close up the fire-place, and instantly extinguish the com- bustion of the fuel in the grate, or that of the ! soot in the chimney. This simple arrange- I ment, the advantages of which were pointed out in an early edition of this work, renders fires in chimneys of little moment, as it is only necessary to draw down the shutter to put them out. If a chimney is stopped at top, instead of at the bottom, the whole of the smoke must, of necessity, be driven into the apartment. Escape from apartments on fire may be best effected by creeping on the hands and knees. In this way the window or door may be reached. It is found that the atmosphere of a room so full of smoke as to produce suffo- cation to a person standing upright, may gene- rally be safely breathed on nearly a level with the fioor. A damp cloth, or handkerchief, tied over the mouth nostrils, or, still better, over the whole face and head, will enable a person to effect a passage through the densest smoke, and, in many cases, to escape from buildings on fire, when otherwise it would be impracticable. Should descent by the staircase be found im- possible, then the window should be immedi- ately sought, and a ladder ov fire-escape waited for. In the absence of either, if the danger is imminent, a rope should be made by tying the sheets and blankets of the bed together, one end of which should be firmly secured to a chair or table, or preferably to one of the bed- posts, and with this apparatus descent should be cautiously attempted. Jumping out of the window should be avoided, as persons who have not been brought up as clowns, or harle- quins, run just as much danger in performing such an exploit as they do by remaining in the burning building. When it is impossible to escape from a burning building by the stairs or windows, retreat may be sometimes secured by a trap-door opening on to the roof, or by a skylight, when, unless it be an iso- lated house, the roof of one of the adjoining buildings may probably be gained with safety. Fire-escapes of various kinds have been em- ployed of late years in the metropolis, and have proved of the greatest value in rescuing persons from burning buildings. It is said that there is no instance on record of a person being burnt to death in a dwelling- house in Edinburgh, where the houses are usually high; yet in London, where fire- engines and fire-escapes are provided in ' greater numbers, deaths are very frequent from this cause. The reason of this difference is, that in the former city the stairs are all made of stone, by which means a road of escape is secured. The clothes offemales and children, when on fire, may be most readily extinguished by roll- ing the sufterer in the carpet, hearth-rug, table-cover, a great-coat, cloak, or any other woollen article at hand. If this be expertly done, the flames may be rapidly put out, un- less the skirts of the dress be distended by hoops or crinoline, when there is great diffi- culty in staying the progress of the flames. Should assistance not be at hand, the person whose clothes are on fire should throw herself 1