OILS (VOLATILE). 971 I I drops; neroli, 6 drops; essence of musk, 3 or [4 drops. 1 2. (De Naquet.) Oil of ben, 1 quart; nut oil, 1 pint; rectified spirit, i pint; essence of i bergamotte, 3| dr.; tincture of musk and es- Iprit de Portugal, of each, 2 dr.; otto of roses, I i dr.; alkanet root, q. s. to colour. ' Mar'row Oil (Perfumed).—1. Simple marrow oil, ^ scented at will. ! 2. (Flijide DE Java.) ATarrow otV, coloured I with a little palm oil, and scented. 3. (Hdile comoqene.) Marrow oil, 4 oz.; spirit of rosemary, 1^ oz.; oil of nutmeg, 12 drops. \ 4. (Hitile philocome d’Aubeil.) Cold- ! drawn nut oil and marrow oil, equal parts; scent, at will, q. s. 5. (Huile DE PHENIX.) Clarified beef mar- row, lard, pale nut oil, and expressed oil of mace, of each, 4 oz.; melt together hy the heat of hot water, strain through linen into a warm stone mortar, add, of oils of cloves, la- vender, mint, rosemary, sage, and thyme, of each, ^ dr.; rectified spirit, 1 oz., in which has been dissolved by a gentle heat balsam of tolu, 4 dr.; camphor, 1 dr.; triturate until the whole is cold, and then put it into bottles. All the above are used to make the hair grow, and to prevent it falling off. Oil of Musk. From grain musk, 1 dr.; am- bergris, i dr.; oil of lavender, 20 drops; oil, 1 pint; by infusion. A second, quality is made iby working the same ingredients, after the oil I is poured from them, with ^ pint of fresh oil. This also applies to oil of ambeegeis and HUILE EOYALE. I Oil of Musk and Am'hergris. Syn. Huile EOYALE. From ambergris, 2 dr.; grain musk, dr.; oils of cassia, lavender, neroli, and nut- \meg, of each, 10 drops; oil, 1 pint; hy infu- tsion. (See above.) Oil of Sty'rax. From liquid styrax (pure), f!5 dr.; oil of nutmeg, 10 drops; ambergris, " 16 gr.; oil, 1 pint; by infusion. Oil of VanilTa. Syn. Huile A la vanille. From purest olive or almond oil, 1^ pint; va- nilla (finest, in powder), 2 oz.; oil of berga- \motte, 1 dr.; attar of roses (finest), 15 drops; > [by infusion. J OILS (Volatile). Syn. Olea destillata, II Olea distillata, Olea essentialia, Olea ^ IVOLATILIA, L.; HUILES VOLATILES, Fr. The volatile oils are an extensive and important class of bodies, derived from the vegetable kingdom, and found in almost every part of the majority of the plants which produce dhein, except the cotyledons of the seeds, [in which, in general, the fixed oils are exclu- jsively stored up. Their presence confers upon j flowers, leaves, fruit, seeds, roots, bark, and I woods, their peculiar and characteristic odours; [but among these they are not equally distri- ibuted in the same individual, and are often altogether absent from some of them. To them we are indebted for our most delightful 1 See page 968. perfumes, and our choicest spices and aro- matics. Some of them are found to possess valuable medicinal properties, and others are invested with the highest possible interest on account of their peculiar chemical constitu- tion, and the reactions which occur when they are brought into contact with other bodies. The volatile oils are often called ‘ essences,’ and the same loose and unmeaning term is also commonly applied to their alcoholic solutions. Prop. The volatile or essential oils are usu- ally more limpid and less unctuous than the fixed oils; but some of them are butyraceous or crystalline. Nearly all of them consist of two or more oils, differing in their sp. gr. and boiling-points, one of which is generally li- quid, the other, in some cases, crystalline. All of them, when perfectly pure, are colour- less, though before rectification nearly the whole of them have a pale yellow tint, and some of them are brown, blue, or green. Their odour is that of the plants which yield them, and is usually powerful; their taste is pungent and burning. They mix in all pro- portions with the fixed oils, dissolve freely in both alcohol and ether, and are sparingly so- luble in water, forming ‘ peefumed’ or ‘ me- dicated WATEES.’ Their boiling-point usu- ally ranges between 310'^ and 325° Fahr., and is always considerably higher than that of water. They resist saponification, and (excepting oil of cloves) do not combine with the salifiable bases. Their density fluc- tuates a little on either side of water. The lightest oil is that of citeons (sp. gr. ’847), and the heaviest that of sassafeas (sp. gr. 1’096). When cooled sufficiently, they all solidify. The common temperature of the at- mosphere is sufficient for this with some of them, as the OILS of eoses and aniseed; whilst others require to be cooled below the freezing- point of water before they assume the solid form. In this state they appear to consist of a crystalline or semi-crystalline substance (STEAEOPTENE, steaeessence), and a fluid portion (eleoptene, oleiessence). The two may be separated by pressing the concrete oil between the folds of bibulous paper, in the cold. By exposure to the air, the volatile oils rapidly absorb oxygen, and become partially converted into resin. This is the cause of the deposit that usually forms in them (especially in the expeessed oil of oeange) when kept in an ill-corked vessel. The solid crystalline matter which separates from them when kept in closed vessels is stearoptene. Class. Chemically considered, the essential oils may be divided into three great classes:— 1. Oils composed of carbon and hydrogen only (binaey volatile oils, caebo-hydeo- GENS, HYDEO-CAEBONS, TEEEBENES, CAM- phenes), of which oil of tuepentine may be regarded as the type. These are characterised by being, as a class, less soluble in rectified spirit and in water than the other essential oils. The OILS of BEEGAMOT, CAPIVI, CUBEBS, ELE-