ARCHEUS—AKCHIL. 205 I The word is still occasionally used in the j plural (aeca'na, secrets, mysteries), in the t titles of books; as, * Arcana of Chemistry,^ a j book professing to contain a full exposition of j the mysteries of that art. ! Among the old chemists, aecanum al'bum j was ‘ pulvis Viennensis albus virgineus ’ (see I PowDEEs) j A. BEC'cmcEM, a Sweetened ( aqueous solution of liver of sulphur; A. coeal- } Li'NUii, nitric-o,rn/<? of mercury that had been > digested in a solution of potash, washed with j water, and then had spirit of wine burnt on it (once a favourite mercurial and escharotic); I A. duplica'tum, sulphate of potash; a. d. i CATHOL'ictim, roots of colchicum and ^Aantain ! (worn as an amulet against fevers and pesti- lential diseases; see appensa) ; a. lude- mak'ni, oxide of zinc; A. tae'taei, acetate of potassa; a. ti'tje, elixir vitse ; &c. j ARCHE'US (-ke'-us; ar'*—Mayne). [L.] Syn. Aech.e'us, L. A term invented by Pa- racelsus, and employed by the alchemists and older physicians, to imply the occult cause of I I phenomena, as well as the sub-causes or agents | by which the effects were accomplished. | ^'an Ilelmont and Stahl ascribe certain ; vital functions to the influence and superin- ! tendence of a ‘ spiritus archceus ’ or intelligent 1 vital principle. According to others, the i ■ i)owers of ^Archwiis’ were indefinitely ex- | I tended. He or it was an occult power of | I nature, the artificer of all things, physician- i I general to the universe, &c., &c., to the utmost I bounds of absurdity and confusion, r Prom this word comes the adj. aeche'al or AECUJS'AL, hidden, operative; in chemistry sometimes applied to the more active and powerful elements, as bromine, chlorine, oxygen, ARCHIL (artsh'-il). Syn. Aech'el*', Oe'- cjiiL; Aechil'la, Oechil'la {ch as k), L.; Oeseiele, Fr., Ger.; Oeicello, It. A superb violet-red, purple, or blue stain or dye-stuff, obtained from several species of lichens, but of the finest quality from roccelta tinctoria (DC.), and next from r. fuciformis (DC.). The archil of commerce is met with as a liquid paste, or as a thin liquid dye or stain of more or less intensity. The ordinary archil or orchil of the shops (oechil-liquoe) is under the last form; and is known as either BLUE OE EEJD AECHIL—distinctions which arise as follows:— Prep. 1. Blue aecuil :—The bruised or coarsely-ground lichen is steeped for some time I in a mixture of stale urine, or bone-spirit, and | lime or milk of lime, or in any similar ammo- \ niacal solution, contained in covered wooden vessels in the cold; the process being repeated until all the colour is extracted. 2. Red or ceimson aechil :—The mate- 1 Tl\c usual ortliogr. of these words is ‘archreus’ and ‘ arclicPal,’ in which case their derivation would be from f rst-fniifs; whereas it is obviously from apx^y cause, oriyin, principle, and hence they are preferably spelled witli e instead of ‘ a?.’ rials are the same as for the last variety, but rather less milk of lime is used, and the ‘steep’ is generally made in earthen jars placed in a room heated by steam, technically called a ‘stove.’ It will be seen that the two kinds merely differ in the degree of their red or violet tint—the addition of a small quantity of lime or alkali to the one, or of an acid to the other, immediately bringing them both to the same shade of colour. Prop. Archil has a disagreeable putrid am- moniacal odour. Its colouring matter is so- luble in water, alcohol, urine, ammoniacal and alkaline lyes, and weak acid liquors ; alkalies turn it blue, acids red; alum gives with it a brownish red precipitate, and solution of tin a red one; the alcoholic solution gradually loses its colour when excluded from the air. Its colouring matter consists chiefly of orceine. Pur. Archil is frequently adulterated with extract of logwood, or of Lima or Sapan-wood. It may be tested as follows :—1. A solution of 50 or 60 drops of pure archil in about 3 fi. oz. of water slightly acidulated with acetic acid, almost entirely loses its colour, or presents only a yellowish tinge, when heated to ebul- lition in a flask along with 50 drops of a fresh solution of protochloride of tin made with 1 part of the salt to 2 parts of water :—2. A drop of fluid extract of logwood treated in the same way, gives a distinct violet tint, which resists several hours boiling ; but when only 3 or 4 per cent, of logwood is present, the boiled liquid has a permanent gray tint: —3. If the boiled liquid retains its red hue, extract ofSapan-wood is present:—4. The boiled liquor, when tlie archil is pure, xe-acquires its colour by exposure to the air, and the addition of an alkali, particularly ammonia; whilst the colour produced by logwood is destroyed only by an alkaline solution of tin, and is restored by acids. Uses, ^c. It is employed to tinge the spirit used to fill the tubes of thermometers, and to stain paper, wood, &c. The aqueous solution stains maeble, in the cold, of a beautiful violet colour, of considerable permanence when not exposed to a vivid light, “ Marble thus tinged preserves its colour unchanged at the end of two years.” (Dufay.) Its principal use is, however, in dyeing. Ry proper management it may be made to produce every shade of pink and crimson to blue and purple. Unfortunately, although the hues it imparts to silk and wool possess an exquisite bloom or lustre, they are far from permanent, and unless well managed, soon decay. It is hence generally employed in combination with other dye-stulfs, or as a finishing bath to impart a bloom to silk or woollens already dyed of per- manent colours. In using it as a dye, it is added to hot water in the required quantity, and the bath being raised to nearly the boiling point, the materials are put in and passed through it, until the desired shade is i)ro- duced. A mordant of alum and tartar is