410 CEMENT. form, 3 parts; dissolve, and add gum mastic (powdered), 1 part. Elastic and transparent. 3. Gutla percha, 3 parts; caoutchouc, 1 part (both cut small); bisuipJiuret of carbon, 8 parts; mix in a close vessel and dissolve by the heat of a water bath. This is to be gently warmed before it is applied. 4. Gutta 2J^rcha, 1 lb. ; caoutchouc, 4 oz. ; pitch, 2 oz. ; shell lac, 1 oz. ; linseed oil, 2 oz.; melted together. Tins must be melted before being applied. Obs. The cements 1 and 2 are elastic and transparent, and are applicable to many uses. The others, 3 and 4, are used for uniting lea- ther, cloth, &c. Elec'trical Cement. Syn. Chemical ce- ment. Erom blade resin, 7 lb.; red ochre, 1 lb. ; plaster of Paris, !b.; (both well-dried and still warm) ; melted together, and the heat and agitation continued until all frothing ceases, and the liquid runs smooth ; the vessel is then withdrawn from the fire, and the mix- ture stirred until cooled sufiiciently. Used to cement the plates in galvanic troughs, join chemical vessels, &c. See Cap Cement, Singer’s Cement, &c. Engineers'* Cement. Prep. 1. Ground white lead, mixed with as much red lead as will make it of the consistence of putty. 2. Equal weights of red lead and white lead, mixed Vv'ith boiled linseed oil to a proper con- sistence. Used by engineers and others to make metallic joints. A washer of heinp, yarn, or canvass, smeared with the cement, is placed in the joint, which is then “ brought home,” or screwed up tight. It dries as hard as stone. It also answers well for joining broken stones, however large. Cisterns built of square stones, put together, while dry, with this cement, will never leak or come to repair. Extempora"neous Cement. 1. Shell-lac, melted and run into small sticks the size of a quill. Used to join glass, earthenware, &c. The edges are heated sufficiently hot to melt the cement, which is then thinly smeared over them, and the joint made while they are still hot. This is the cement so commonly vended in the streets of London, and which used to surprise us in our boyhood days. 2. 'Pears of gum mastic, used in the same way. Commonly employed by jewellers and others. Fire'proof Cement. Prep. From fine river sand, 20 parts; litharge, 2 parts ; quicklime, 1 part; linseed oil, q. s. to form a thin paste. Applied to walls, it soon acquires a stony hard- ness. It is also used to mend broken pieces of stone, stone steps, &c. See Beale’s Ce- ment, &c. Flour Cement. Syn. Paste, Flottr paste. This useful and well-known article is made by mixing about a tablespoonful of wheat flour with cold water, (say) i pint, adding the latter gradually, and thoroughly stirring in each portion before pouring in more j the vessel is then placed over the fire, and the whole assi- duously stirred until it boils, great care being taken to prevent “ caking on the bottom,” or “ burning.” Some persons add about ^rd of a teaspoonful of powdered alum to the water, which is said to strengthen the product; the shoemakers add a little quantity of powdered resin to the flour, with the same intention. The addition of a little brown sugar and a few grains of corrosive sublimate will prevent it turning mouldy, and is said to preserve it for years. When too hard or dry, it may be softened by beating it up with a little hot water. French Cement. Mucilage of gum arahic, thickened with starch powder or farina; a little lemon-juice is sometimes added. Used by naturalists in mounting specimens ; by ar- tificial-flower makers; and by confectioners, to stick paper, wafer papers, ornaments, &c., on their fancy cakes. Plain mucilage is often used in the same way. Gad’s Cement. Syn. Gad’s htdeadlic CEMENT. From clay (well dried and pow- dered), 3 parts; oxide of iron, 1 part j mixed together, and made into a stifl’ paste with boiled oil. Used for work required to harden under water. Glass Cement. Syn. Glass elux. Prep. Red lead, 3 parts; fine white .sand, 2 parts; crystallized boracic acid, 3 parts; mixed and fused; it is levigated, and applied with thin mucilage of tragacanth. Used for mending broken china, &c. The rej^aired article must be gently heated, so as partially to fuse the cement. Gibbs’ Cement. Mr. Gibbs patented in 1850 various processes for making admirable build- ing and architectural cements, equal in hard- ness and duration, and superior in colour, to the best Roman and Portland cements at pre- sent in use. His materials are obtained from “ the vast beds of (natural) argillaceous marls and marly limestones, or marl stones, which contain the due admixture of lime, silica, and alumina, from which hydraulic cements and artificial stones may be manufactured.” These materials he finds in “the chalk formation, the Wealden formation, the Purbeck beds, the lias formation, the mountain limestone, and the lowest strata of the coal measures.” After duly choosing his materials according to the particular object in view, he prepares them “ by burning in kilns, and grinding in mills, in the way cement is now manufactured.” Marls and limestones are to be “ first dried in kilns or ovens, at a heat fit for baking, until all moisture be driven off, and that then the calcination be prolonged as much as possible; the heat being kept as low as is only just suf- ficient to effect complete calcination—this being indispensable, to avoid the commence- ment of vitrification, which would destroy the adhesive properties of the cement.” Glue Cement. Prep. 1. From glue, 1 lb., melted with the least possible quantity of