813 KREASOTE. sulphuric acid, the watery liquid rejected, and the remainder (consisting of crude kreasote) ! submitted to distillation in glass; the treat- ! ment by exposure, potassa, sulphuric acid, and : distillation, is repeated three times or oftener, I until the combination of kreasote and potassa ceases to become coloured by the action of the I air; it is, lastly, saturated with concentrated ' phosphoric acid, and again distilled, rejecting I the first portion that comes over, j 2. (M. Simon.) A copper still, capable of containing 80 Berlin quarts, is filled to one third with the oil of wood-tar, and heat is I applied; first, the more volatile matters pass i over; these do not contain kreasote, and are, ! therefore, rejected; but when, by gradually increasing the temperature, there passes over a ; very acid liquid, which becomes turbid, and at ; the same time an oil separates from it when mixed with water, the product is collected, and the distillation continued until the operator j notices a squirting in the still, when this part I of the process is complete; the distilled pro- I duct is then nearly saturated with potassa, and returned to the still, which, in the mean ; time, has been well cleaned out, and about half j filled with water, and the distillation is recom- menced ; at first an oil comes over, which floats on water, and which consists chiefly of eupion, ’ and is, therefore, rejected; as soon, however, ' as the oil begins to sink in the water which j comes over with it, it is charged with kreasote, I and is carefully collected; the distilling aque- ous fluid being reintroduced, from time to time, into the still, and the distillation con- • tinned so long as any oil continues to come 1 over with it; the heavy oily distillate is now j agitated with liquor of potassa, sp. gr. 1‘120; the portion which remains undissolved is eu- ' pion, and is skimmed off; the potassa-solution ; of kreasote still, however, contains a consi- derable quantity of eupion, the greater portion I of which may be separated by dilution and distillation with an equal quantity, or with at I least |ths of its volume of water, fresh water I being added from time to time, as long as any I eupion comes over with the distilled liquor; when this has ceased to pass over, sulphuric acid is poured into the still in quantity exactly i sufficient to saturate ^rd only of the potassa I formerly employed, and the distillation is I again renewed; kreasote now distils over, the first portions of which, however, still contain i eupion, after which pure kreasote follows; that j is to say, “ a kreasote which, when mixed with 6 or 8 times its quantity of a solution of pure I potassa, furnishes a mixture which, by the ad- dition of any further quantity whatever of water, does not be(.*ome turbid.’^ The combi- nation of kreasote remaining in the still is I now mixed with sulphuric acid in slight excess, and the distillation renewed, the w^ater coming over with it being from time to time returned I into the still; and when no further oil passes 1 over with the water, the process is complete. The kreasote thus obtained is re-distilled with the water which has passed over with it, whilst the distilled water, as before, isallowedfrom time to time to run back into the still. The kreasote thus obtained is then colourless; but it con- tains a considerable quantity of water in so- lution, which is separated by distillation in a glass retort. The.water distils first, and then kreasote, which, after cleaning the neck of the retort from the water, must be received in another dry receiver. If the kreasote assumes a red colour after being exposed for some time to the air, it must be re-distilled, and then it keeps very well. Korne found that tar pre- pared from turf furnishes much more kreasote than that from fir-wood, &c. 3. (Ure.) In operating upon pyroligneous acid, if we dissolve effloresced sidphate of soda in it to saturation, at the temperature of 267° Fahr., the kreasote separates, and floats upon the surface; it is then decanted, and left in repose for some days, during which it deposits a fresh portion of salt and vinegar ; it is next saturated whilst hot with carbonate of potassa, and distilled along with water ; a pale yellow’, oily liquid passes over, w’hich is rectified with phosphoric acid, &c., like the crude product of kreasote from tar. Prop. Kreasote is a colourless, transparent liquid, heavier than water, of a peculiar, un- pleasant, penetrating odour, resembling that of smoked meat, and a very pungent and caustic taste; its vapour irritates the eyes; it boils at 397° Fahr., and is still fluid at — 16 6° Fahr.; it produces on paper greasy spots, which afterwards disappear; dissolves in 80 parts of water, and mixes in all proportions with spirit of wine, ether, the essential and fatty oils, acetic acid, naphtha, sulphuret, of car- bon, ammonia, and potassa; it dissolves iodine, phosphorus, sulphur, resins, the alkaloids, indigo blue, several salts (especially the acetates and the chlorides of calcium and tin); reduces the nitrate and acetate of silver ; is resinified by chlorine, and decomposed by the stronger acids. The aqueous solution is neutral, and precipitates solutions of gum and the white of eggs. It kindles w'ith difficulty, and burns with a smoky flame. When quite pure, it is unaltered by exposure to the air. Sp. gr. 1-037, at 68° Fahr. Pur. The fluid commonly sold in the shops for kreasote, is a mixture of kreasote, pica- mar, and light oil of tar; in many cases it is little else than impure carbolic acid, with scarcely a trace of kreasote. Pure krea- sote is perfectly soluble in both acetic acid and liquor of potassa; shaken with an equal vo- lume of water in a narrow test-tube, not more than the l-80th part disappears; otherwise it contains water, of which kreasote is able to assume .j^th without becoming turbid.—If it can be dissolved completely in 80 parts by weight of water, at a medium temperature, it then forms a perfectly neutral liquid.—An oily residue floating on the surface betrays the presence of other foreign products (eupion.