ACETIC ACID. 14 or hisulpJiate ofpotassa, 13 oz.; sulphuric acid, 7i oz.; mix, and cautiously evaporate to dry- ness; when cold, powder the residuum, mix it with thoroughly dried acetate of soda, 12 oz.; and distil over 7 oz., as before. Sp. gr. of pro- duct, “1'068 to 1*070” (?). “It contains from 84 to 855 of real acetic acid.” (Redwood.) 10. (Lowitz’ Acetic Acid.) Take of sulphate ofpotassa, 12 oz.; sulphuric acid, 6 oz.; water, 18 oz.; mix, <|c., as last, add the dry resi- duum to fused acetate of soda, 9 oz.; oxide of manganese, \ oz.; and distil, as before. b. From acetate oe potassa :— 1. Acetate of potassa (fused and powdered) is placed in a still, or other suitable vessel, and 50g of the strongest sulphuric acid (‘ oil of vitriol’ of fully 1*84 sp. gr.) being added, the mixture is distilled to dryness, as before. The product is 50 to 51g of the weight of the ace- tate employed, with a sp. gr. of about 1*0735 to 1*074, containing about 66g of dry acetic acid, or nearly 80§ of ordinary glacial acid. By rectification from a little dried acetate of lead a perfectly pure acid of almost any strength may be obtained. The ingredients are nearly in equiv. proportions. 2. (Ph. D. 1826.) Acetate of potassa, 100 parts; sulphuric acid, 52 parts ; as before. c. From acetate oe lead :— 1. (Acidum aceticem, Ph. E. 1841.) Heat dried and powdered acetate of lead to 320° Fahr., in a porcelain basin, placed in a bath of oil or fusible metal, and continue stirring until the powder ceases to concrete; of this powder take 6 oz.; add to it, of pure concentrated sulphuric acid, 9.5 fl. dr.; and distil the mix- ture to dryness, at a heat of 320°, in a bath of fusible metal; agitate the distillate with a few grains of red oxide of lead, decant the clear portion, and re-distil. The product has a sp. gr. of 1*063 to 1*065; but must not exceed 1*0685. It contains about 80*5g of real acetic acid, or nearly 95§ of glacial acid. “20 per cent, of water added to it should increase its density. 100 minims neutralise at least 216 grains of crystallised carbonate of soda.” It crystallises at about 50° Fahr. Ohs. Mr. R. Phillips objects to this process, as containing “ several unnecessary refine- ments, which render” it “ troublesome, waste- ful, and expensive. Such are the use of a bath of oil or fusible metal, the addition of red lead, and subsequent redistillation.” He further asserts that “the whole process is ob- jectionable, on the ground that acid of this strength is not required for medicinal or phar- maceutical purposes.” According to him, the acetate may be sufficiently dried at 212° Fahr. {Lond. Med. (faz., ii, 271.) These remarks also apply to the process of the Ph. D. given below. 2. (Ure.) Take of dried acetate of lead, 4 parts; strongest oil of vitriol, 1 part. Distil slowly to dryness. Nearly equal to the last. 3. (Baup.) As the last, adding a little per- oxide of manganese before distillation. 4. (Liebig.) Acetate of lead, 3 parts; sul- phuric acid, 8 parts; as before. 5. (Dollfuss’ Concentrated Acetic Acid.) Take of dried acetate of lead, 12 oz.; sulphuric acid, 6 oz.; distil 7 ounces. 6. Glacial acetic Acid, Acidum aceticum glacia'le, Ph. D. 1851.) Expose finely pow- dered acetate of lead (previously dried at a temperature of about 300'^ Fahr., until it ceases to lose weight), in a flask or retort, to an atmosphere of dry hydrochloric acid, until “nearly the whole of it exhibits a damped appearance;” then connect it with a Liebig’s condenser, and apply heat by means of a chlo- ride of zinc bath, until “the whole of the acid shall have distilled over.” The hydro- chloric acid may be prepared in the usual way, but must be dried before being used, by caus- ing it first to bubble through a vessel contain- ing oil of vitriol, and then to pass through a long tube containing small fragments of fused chloride of calcium. The product is a pure, concentrated acid, of the sp. gr. 1*065. It contains nearly 98g of hydrated acetic acid, and nearly 83*5§ of the anhydrous acid. The pro- cess, though apparently complicated, is not at all difficult to manage; but is open to the same objections as those raised against that of the Edin. College. (See above.) 7. (Christl.) From commercial acetate or pyrolignate of lead, in the same way as from pyrolignate of lime, using equivalent pro- portions. (See below.) The residuum in the retort is mueiate oe lead or patent YELLOW. d. From ACETATE OE LIME :— 1. (Christl.) Raw acetate or pyrolignate of lime (prepared by Volckel’s process), 100 parts, is mixed with hydrochloric acid (20° Baum4 orsp. gr. 1*1515), 120parts; and after 12 hours, distilled in a copper vessel, with a gradually applied heat. The product is 100 parts or lbs. of acetic acid of 8° Baume (sp. gr. 1*0556), containing about 47§ of hydrated acid, only slightly coloured and empyreumatic, fit for various manufacturing purposes. By rec- tification from a little fresh-burnt wood-char- coal and pure acetate of lime or soda, or car- bonate of soda, or a very little bichromate of potassa, and dividing the products, an acid of any degree of purity and concentration may be obtained. The advantage of this process is the present low price of muriatic acid, and the product not being contaminated with sul- phuric or sulphurous acid. Obs. It will be found that pyrolignate of lime generally contains 90g of neutral acetate; but should it contain either more or less, a propor- tionate quantity must be employed. When the proper proportions are used the distil- late gives only a scarcely perceptible turbid cloud when tested with nitrate of silver. If the hydrochloric acid used has the sp. gr. 1*16, a less quantity being employed, the product will have the sp. gr. of 1*058 to 1*061, and will then contain from 48 to