387 CAMPHORIC ACID—CANDLES. CAMPHOR'IC ACID. Syn. Acidtjm cam- PHOR'icum, L. Prep. From camphor, 1 part; and nitric acid (sp. gr. 1*33), 4 parts; distilled together in a glass retort, with a gradually increasing heat, until vapours cease to be evolved; the camphor that has volatilized is then added to that in the retort, along with 4 or 5 parts more of nitric acid, and the pro- cess repeated again and again, until 20 parts of acid have been consumed, when crude cam- phoric acid crystallizes out of the remaining i liquor, on cooling. The crystals are purified j by washing with cold distilled water, solution j in boiling water, and evaporating the solution I until a pellicle forms; crystals of pure cam- I phoric acid are formed as the liquid cools. Prop., Sfc. Small, colourless, lamellar or j acicular crystals ; acid; hitter ; fusible at 158° I Fahr.; sparingly soluble in water; soluble in I alcohol; alcoholic solution not precipitated by ' water, which distinguishes camphoric acid ; from benzoic acid. Its salts are called cam- i PHORATES. The soluble camphorates may be made by digesting the carbonate or hydrate ! of the base in a hot solution of the acid, and 1 the insoluble camphorates by double decompo- sition. By distillation, camphoric acid yields a colourless, crystalline, neutral substance, which has been improperly called anhydrous ; camphoric acid. j CAM THRONE. Syn. Cam'phorone. A light j oily liquid obtained when the vapour of cam- phor is passed over small fragments of quick- I lime heated to redness. It is also formed ; when camphorate of lime is submitted to dis- i tillation. j CAM'WOOD. This dye-stuff resembles Brazil I wood in its properties, and is used in a similar ! manner. j CAN'ADA BALSAM. Syn. Bal'samtjm Ca- naden'se.Terebinth'inaCanapen'sis, L. A I thick, viscid oleo-resin obtained from the Abies j balsamea (Bindley), a tree of common growth in Canada and the State of Maine. It is ' much employed as a medium for mounting microscopic objects. When pure, it is per- fectly transparent, has an agreeable odour (not terebinthinate), and is wholly soluble in ‘ rectified oil of turpentine, with which it forms ; a beautiful glassy and colourless varnish, much j used for preparing a semi-transparent copying i paper. Facti"tious Canada Balsam. Syn. Balsamtjm I Cakadense pacti"tiijm, L. Prep. 1. Yellow i resin, 3 lb.; oil of turpentine, 1 gall.; dissolve, J and add essence of lemon, 2 dr.; oil of rose- 1 mary, dr. ' 2. To the last add of nut oil, 1 pint. Both I are sold in the shops for Canada balsam. I CAN'CER. Syn. Carcino'ma, L. A malig- ! nant disease attacking the glands, consisting I of an indolent scirrhous tumour, terminating ; in an ill-conditioned ulcer, generally accom- panied with excruciating pain, more especially in the later stages. Various modes of treat- I ing cancer have been, at different times, re- I commended by the faculty and empirics. Among these extirpation with the knife appears to be most in favour with the former, when practicable. The removal of the tumour does not, however, destroy the constitutional taint, although it may lessen its intensity, and ren- der the subsequent treatment of the disease less difficult. Recently, the application of intense cold has been highly recommended in cancerous affections of the glands. A little pounded ice is tied up in the corner of a thin silk handkerchief or a piece of bladder, and the “ pad” thus formed pressed gently against the tumour and the parts immediately adjacent for a short time, once or twice a day. The degree of cold may be increased by mixing an equal weight of common salt with the pounded ice, by which the benumbing effect of the ap- plication will he greatly augmented. Electri- city and galvanism have also been occasionally found useful. Among special remedies for cancer, the following are those which deserve the most attention:—Hemlock, combined with alkalies, tonics, and stomachics. Belladonna, used in the same way as the last. Arsenic, especially in the ulcerated stages; this is the basis of nearly all the quack nostrums for cancer. Bichloride of mercury, in small and frequently repeated doses. Iodine, as the last, either alone or combined with hemlock or opium; it is one of the best remedies in all stages. Iodide of iron. Phosphate of iron, combined with hydrochlorate of ammonia or aloes. Common salt has been put forth as a remedy by Col. Ussory, of De Soto, who says he learnt the secret of a Spanish woman. His mode of using this remedy is as follows:— Take an egg and break it, pour out the white, retaining the yolk in the shell, put in salt, mix it with the yolk as long as it will re- ceive it, and stir them together until a salve is formed; put a portion of this on a piece of sticking plaster, and apply it to the cancer twice or thrice a day. He says that he has tried the remedy twice in his own family, with complete success. The doses, &c., of the other substances referred to, will be found under their respective heads. It may be right, perhaps, to mention, that the above remarks are solely intended for those who are either unable, or unwilling, to seek medical advice. To all others afflicted with cancer, our most earnest recommendation is for them to consult a duly qualified practitioner as soon as possible. CAN'DIES. See Candying. CAN'DLES. Candle-making, once a rude and noisome trade, is now a first-class chemical manufacture, and as it is generally carried on in large works under the superintendence of men trained in the laboratory, a detailed ac- count of the numerous processes included in it would be out of place here. We will, how- ever, briefly describe the principal kinds of candles now in use, and give a few particulars respecting their manufacture. Candles are