ACACIA—ACCIDENT. 9 sufficient nutrition. St. Anthony is said to have lived to the age of 105 on twelve ounces of bread daily, and drank no other liquor than water. JameSy the Hermit, on alike diet, lived to 104; St. Epiphanius, to 115; Simeon, the Stylite, to 112 ; and Kentigern, or SL Mungo, to 185 years. (Spottiswood.) In opposition to this it would be useless to attempt to show the multitudes who have died from starvation, or from the use of an insufficient quantity of food; although this number would probably not equal the myriads who have expiated the follies of intemperance and gluttony by pre- maturely sinking into the grave. Pliny in- forms us, that a man may live seven, or even eleven days, without food. {^Hist. Nat., lib. ii.) If we believe the statements of some writers, there have been persons to whose existence food was not a necessity. Democritus, who flourished 323 b.c., is said to have subsisted for forty days, by merely smelling honey and hot bread. (Diog. Laert.) Gilbert Jackson, of Carse Grange, Scotland, lived three years without sustenance of any kind, 1789. (Phillips.) A woman of Normandy lived for eighteen years without food. (Petrus de Albano.) A religious fanatic intent on fasting- forty days, died on the sixteenth, 1789. (Phillips.) Npeasant girl, of Osnabruck, ab- stained four years from all food and drinks, 1799. (Hufeland’s “ Prac. Jour.’’) Ann Moore, the notorious fasting woman of Tut- bury, Staffordshire, is reported to have lived twenty months without food, 1808. (Pub. prints.) Cavanagh, the fasting Irishman, pre- tended to have lived two years at Newry, in the same inexpensive manner, 1840; but was at length discovered in England, and im- prisoned as a cheat, Nov. 1841. The more recent case (1852) of Miss , the fanatic, or impostor, of Woodbridge, Suffolk, whose admirers believed her to have lived many months without food, must be familiar to the reader. There can be no doubt that the reports of all the cases of long fasting above referred to, have originated in imposture and credulity. See Easting, Tempeeance, &c. ACA'CIA (sh’a). [Eng., L., Er.] The Egyp- tian thorn. In botany, an intertropical genus of elegant spiny leguminous trees and shrubs, having pinnated leaves, and white, red, or yellow flowers in balls or spikes. It contains upwards of 300 species, many of them yielding products highly useful or agreeable to man- kind ; as catechu, gum arabic, perfumes, 8(c. The flowers of some of the species are used by the Chinese in dyeing yellow; those of acacia farnesiana (Willd.), growing in the E. and W. Indies, yield a delicious perfume, which is one of the principal ingredients in Italian perfumery. Acacia. The inspissa ted juice of the unripe fruit of acacia vera (‘mimosa nilotica,’Zmn.), brought from Egypt, in roundish masses, en- closed in bladders. Astringent. Inspissated sloe-juice is usually sold for it. German ACACIA, or ACACIA NOSTRAS, is a similar article from another species. Both the above are now little used. ACANTHOPTERYG'IANS (-ij'-y’anz). Syn. Acanthopteryg'ii (-ij'-e-i), Cuv. In ichthy- ology, an order of fishes, having hard, bony, and prickly dorsal and anal fins. It embraces three-fourths of all the fishes known, as well as some of the most numerous races. The perch, mackerel, weever, gudgeon, tunny, mullet, gilt-head, stickleback, 8^c., are examples of this order. AC'ARI (-ri). [L.; prim. Gr.] Syn. Acar'i- DANS; Acar'ides (-dez); Acaeid'ije (-e-e). In entomology, a division of arachnidans, including the mite and tick. All the species are either microscopic or extremely minute, and possess such tenacity of life, as to resist for some time the action of boiling water, and to live with comparative impunity in alcohol. Leuwenhoek had one that lived eleven weeks glued on its back to the point of a needle, without food. The following are well-known—acares autumna'lis, the har- vest-bug or wheal-worm ; A. domes'ticus, the domestic tick; A. dysente"rIjE, the dysentery- tick ; A. eari'n^, the meal mite ; A. Ei^ciNUS (ris'-), the dog-tick ; A. SAc'chari, the sugar- mite; A. scabie'i, the itch-insect; a. si"eo, the cheese-mite. The irritation of the skin, caused by these vermin, may be relieved by a lotion of equal parts of sal volatile and water; and they may be destroyed by tobacco water, or a lotion or ointment of stavesacre. See Parasites, Pe- DICELI, &c. ACCIDENT'AL COLOUES. See Coloees (Complementary). AC'CIDENT. [Eng., Er.] Syn. Ac'cidens, L. An event unexpected, unusual, or unfore- seen ; a casualty. As no situation or condition in human life is not liable to a variety of accidents (acciden'tia—med.), against which it is impossible always to guard, even by the greatest care and foresight, it is of the utmost importance to remember, that one of the most powerful assistants in dangerous or trying circumstances, is presence of mind. A little self-possession would have saved many lives which, from its absence, have been lost; and would have averted the mischiefs arising from various accidents which, without it, have become irretrievable. The mind overwhelmed by fear, or astounded by alarm, is utterly in- capable of deliberately guiding us in securing either our own safety, or the safety of those who happen to be dependent on us, or in tlie same predicament as ourselves. It is, there- fore, a proof of the truest wisdom to cultivate, and endeavour to preserve as much as possible