946 NUTMEG—NUTRITION. during the night, when the period may he ex- tended to 7 or 8 hours, but never longer. The time after accouchement is another matter that influences the character of human milk in re- spect of its wholesomeness for the infant. The milk secreted soon after delivery is very thin and serous, hut in the course of a few days it becomes thicker, richer, and more nu- tritious ; and a gradual change in the same direction proceeds during the usual period of suckling. When the mother suckles her own infant, or the “ age of the milk,” as the nurses say, corresponds to that of the child, all goes on well j but when the former much exceeds the latter, the reverse is the case. Thus, it is found that an infant is incapable of completely digesting the milk of a nurse whose own child is much older than itself; and that an infant of a few weeks old will often starve on the milk intended by nature for one several times its age. It is, therefore, necessary, in selecting a wet-nurse, to be certain that her condition, in this respect, closely corresponds to that of the mother of the infant, or that it does not differ, on this point, more than 3 or 4 weeks. In respect of the use of high-flavoured or improper food and beverages, medicine, &c., it appears that all these substances immediately affect the milk, and impart to it more or less of their peculiar flavour and properties; and, except with remedies administered under me- dical advice, in nearly all cases prove injurious to the infant. The diet of a nurse should be nutritious and succulent, and its healthy di- gestion should be promoted by exercise and pure air. Strong liquors, more especially spirits, act like slow poisons on the infant, and their habitual use by a nurse should, therefore, be considered as a positive disqualification for the duties of her office. The care of the mo- ther or wet-nurse should be particularly di- rected to the maintenance of her own health and equanimity, by which both the health and good temper of the infant will be, as far as possible, ensiired. A grieving, irritable or angry mother, forces her bad qualities on her offspring, in the shape of fits, convulsions, or hopeless marasmus. See Infancy, Milk, &c. NUT'MEG. Syn. Myristic^ NrCLEUS, Nu- CISTA, Ntix moschata, N. myristica, N. AROMATiCA, Myristica (Ph. L.), L. “ The shelled seed of Myristica officinalis (Linn.; M. moschata—Thunberg), or nutmeg-tree^ (Ph. L.) It is chiefly used as a spice and condiment, but is also esteemed as an aro- matic in flatulency and diarrhoea. Bose. Half a teaspoonful, or more, grated. The dis- tilled and expressed oils (oleum myristica) are also officinal. NUTRr'TION. The phenomena of life are accompanied by the constant and unceasing waste of the materials of which the animal body is composed. Every act of volition, every exertion of muscular power, every func- tional action of the organism, whether percep- tible or imperceptible and involuntary, every play of chemical affinity and decomposition, even thought itself, occasions the disorganiza- tion and destruction, as living matter, of a portion of ourselves. But the process of re- spiration, and the various important changes with which it is connected, tends, more than all the other vital functions, to waste the sub- stance of the body, the temperature of which it is its special office to support. This loss, this change, which commences with life and terminates only with death, is compensated for by the constant renewal of the whole frame by the deposition and assimilation, or organization, of matter from the blood, which thus becomes gradually thinner and impover- ished, unless, in its turn, it receives a corre- sponding supply of its vital elements. This it does from the food, which, by the functions of digestion, is converted into ' chyle,’ and, after being taken up by the ‘ lacteals,’ passes into the blood, of which it then becomes a part, and after being animalized and ren- dered similar to the being it is designed to nourish, by the peculiar action of the vital affinities, it attaches itself to those organs or tissues the loss of which it is intended to supply. This constitutes nutrition. The food of animals, or, rather, the nutritious portion of that food on which we live, is wholly organic matter, and is either directly or indirectly produced by the powers of vege- tation from the inorganic world. The plant elaborates food for the herbivora, and these, in their turn, serve as food for the flesh- eating animals. In both cases the leading alimentary principles are the same; the differ- ence is in their proportions. Flesh is identical in composition with blood, and with the body of the animal that blood is destined to nourish. It abounds in albumen, casein, and fibrin. The vegetable substances used as food also contain nitrogenized principles of a precisely similar character and chemical constitution to those found in flesh, and which we are, therefore, bound to believe are absolutely the same. The gluten of wheat, when purified from gliadin, presents all the characteristics of pure fihrin. The albumen extracted from vegetable juices, when coagulated by heat, cannot be distin- guished from the boiled white of egg in a divided condition. The legumen or vegetable casein of almonds, peas, beans, and many of the oily seeds, bears the most striking resem- blance to the casein of milk. These facts clearly show that the leading nitrogenized principles of animal bodies pre-exist in vege- tables, and that the substances employed as food must have the same, or nearly the same, chemical composition as the body itself. The striking contrast of animal and vegetable food, as far as this point is concerned, is more apparent than real. The actual difference between the two is to be found in the existence of a large quantity of non-nitrogenized matter