AMHKK-CAMPHOK-AMBEJIGIJIS. l?,l generally translucent, but sometimes opaque, and occasionally, though rarely, transparent; colour, generally yellow or orange, hut some- times yellowish white; becomes negatively electric by friction; smells agreeably when rubbed or heated; fracture, conchoidal and vitreous or resinous; soluble in the ]>ure alkalies, and, with decomposition, in oil of vitriol, which then becomes purple; insoluble in the essential and fixed oils without long digestion and heat; soluble in chloroform; melts at about 550° Fahr.; burns with a yellow flame, emitting at the same time a peculiar fragrant odour, and leaving a light and shiny coal. By dry distillation it yields inflammable gases, a small quantity of water, a little acetic acid, a volatile oil (oil of ambee ; o'leum stjc'cini, L.) at first pale, afterwards brown, thick, and empyreumatic, and an acid (SUCCIN'IC ACID; ACIDEM SrccIE'lCEM, L.) ; with residual charcoal 12 to 13^. Sp. gr., 1'065 to 1‘09, but usually about 1*070. It cannot be fused without undergoing more or less chemical change. Merit. Amber may be known from mellite and copal, both of which articles are occasion- ally substituted for it, by the following charac- teristics :—1. Mellite is infusible by heat, and burns white:—2. A piece of copal, heated on the point of a knife, catches fire, and runs into drops, which flatten as they fall:—3. Ambee burns with spitting and frothing, and when its liquefied particles drop, they rebound from the plane on which they fall (M. Haiiy) :—4. Neither mellite nor copal yield ‘ succinic acid ’ by distillation ; nor the agreeable odour of amber when burnt; nor do they become so readily electric by friction. Uses. It is chiefly made into mouth-i)ieces for pipes, beads for necklaces, and other orna- ments and trinkets. It is also used as the basis of several excellent varnishes. In medicine, it was formerly given in chronic coughs, hysteria, Ac.—Dose (of the powder), 10 to 60 gr. Remarks. The finer sorts of amber fetch very high prices. A piece 1 lb. in weight is said to be worth from 10/. to 15/. 5000 dollars a few years since were offered in Prussia for a piece weighing 13 lb., and which, it was stated by the Armenian merchants, would fetch from 30,000 to 40,000 dollars in Constantinople. It is more valued in the East than in England; and chiefly on account of the Turks and other Orientals believing it to be incapable of transmitting infection. In the royal cabinet, Berlin, there is a piece weighing 18 lb., supposed to be the largest ever found. The coarser kinds alone are employed in medicine, chemistry, &c. Add of Amber* (as'-). Succinic Acid. Bal'sam of Amber. Syn. Bal'samum suc'- ciNi, L. The thick matter left in the retort after the rectification of oil of amber; and which it resembles in its properties. Facti"tious Amber (-tish'-). Syn. Suc'cinum rACTi"TiDM’, L. Mellite, copal, and anime. have each been substituted for amber, es- pecially for small fragments of it. Recently an imitation has been produced by acting on gutta perchaw'iih. sul2)hur,ed,2ihigh temperature, which, either alone, or in combination with copal, is said to have been extensively passed off for genuine amber. Liq'uid Amber f. See Liquid-ambae. Oil of Amber. See Oils. Re'sin of Amber. See Pyeetine. Salt of Amber. Succinic Acid. Sol'uble Amber. Rrep. Fragments of amber are cautiously heated in an iron-pot, and as soon as it becomes semi-liquid, an equal weight of pale boiled linseed-oil, previously made hot, is very gradually stirred in, and the whole thoroughly blended.— Used as a ‘ cement ’ for glass and earthenware, and thinned with oil of turpentine to make varnishes. It will keep any length of time if preserved from the air. AMBER-CAM'PHOR. See Pyeetine (Crys- talline). AM'BEB,-DRINK f. Amber-coloured malt liquor. AM'BEE-SEED. Musk-seed (which see). AM'BER-TREE. The popular name of a species of anthospermum, an evergreen shrub, of which the leaves, when bruised, emit an agreeable odour. AM'BERGRIS (-gris; -gresej). Syn. Gray AMBEE*; AMBEAaEl"SEA (grizh'-e-a), L.; Ambeegris, Fr.; Ambra, Ambae, Ger. An odorous, solid substance, found floating on the sea in tropical climates, and in the caecum of the cachalot or spermaceti-whale (‘ physeter macrocephalus’). It has been supposed, by some, to be a morbid secretion of the liver or intestines, analogous to biliary calculi; but according to Mr. Beale, it consists of the mere indurated faeces of the animal, perhaps (as suggested by Brande and Pereira), somewhat altered by disease. “ Some of the semifluid ' faeces, dried with the proper precautions, had ' | all the properties of ambergris.” (Beale.) It i ^ is occasionallv found in masses weighing from I ‘ 60 to 225 Ib.^ ' i . Prop., ^'C. Solid, opaque, ash-coloured, * streaked or variegated, fatty, inflammable; | remarkably light; highly odorous,^ particu- | ® larly when warmed, cut, or handled—the odour 1 being peculiar and not easily described or I ^ imitated, of a very diffusive and penetrating character,and perceptible in minute quantities; i ^ rugged on the surface; does not effervesce | with acids; melts at 140° to 150° Fahr. I into a yellowish resin-like mass; at 212° flics ! off as a white vapour; very soluble in alcohol, ether, and the volatile and fixed oils. It appears to be a non-saponifiable fat, analogous to cholesterine. Sp. gr. 0*780 to 0*926.^ * It has “ a pleasant nmsk-like odour,” “ which is sup- posed to be derived from the (‘sepia nioschata’j on '• which the animal feeds,” tlie “liorny beaks” of whicli “are often found embedded in the masses.” (Pereira.) * It lias “a smell resembling that of dried cow-dung.” (Redwood, “ Gray’s Supplement,” 1857, p. 606). M 2 Sp. gr., *780 to '806—Brande; *008 to *920—Pereira. 'b