SUBERIN—SUGAR. 1245 cold water; fusible and volatilizable by beat, and forms salts called subeeates, some of I which are soluble and crystallizable. SU'BERIR’. Cork deprived of all its soluble matter by the successive action of water and alcohol. SUB'LIMATE (Corrosive). Protochloride of mercury (Hg = 100), or bichloride of mercury (Hg = 200). (See page 900.) SUBLIMA'TION. The process by which i volatile substances are reduced to the state of vapour by heat, and again condensed in the solid form. It differs from ordinary distil- latioQ in being confined to dry solid substances, and in the heat employed being, in general, much greater. Calomel, coeeosive sub- limate, and SAL AMMONIAC, are thus pre- pared. j SUB'STANTIVE COLOURS. In the art of ; dyeing, are such as impart their tints to cloth I and yarns without the intervention of a mor- dant; in contradistinction to adjective co- LOUES, “which require to be fixed by certain i ‘ intermedes,* or substances which have a joint j affinity for the colouring matter and the ma- ' terial to be dyed.^^ (Brande.) SUCCEDA'NEUM. See Tooth-cements, &c. ' SUCCINIC ACID. Syn. Acid op ambee, ! Volatile salt op A.f; Acidum succinicum, Sal succini, L. Prep. 1. From amber, in coarse powder, mixed with an equal weight of I sand, and distilled by a gradually increased jheat; or from the impure acid obtained dur- ' ing the distillation of oil of amber; the pro- duct in both cases being purified by wrapping it in bibulous paper, and submitting it to strong pressure, to remove the oil, and then ' resubliming it. 2. From the mother-liquor of suberic acid, by evaporation and digesting the resulting crystals in ether, to remove suberic acid. 3. From malic add, by fermentation, or by [digestion with hydriodic acid in sealed tubes. ! Prop., &CC. Colourless; inodorous (when pure) ; crystallizes in oblique rhombic prisms; soluble in 5 parts of cold and in 2^ parts of I boiling water; fusible and volatile, without decomposition. Its salts are called ‘succi- 1 NATES,’ most of which are soluble.—Succinate OF AMMONIA is used as a test for iron.—Succi- INAMIDE is a compound formed by the action I of ammonia water on succinic ether;—Bisucci- iNAMiDE, by heating anhydrous succinic acid in dry gaseous ammonia.—Succinone is an oily liquid obtained by distilling succinic acid with lime. Succinic acid is distinguished from i BENZOIC ACID by its greater solubility, and by .giving a brownish or pale red bulky precipi- itate with sesquichloride of iron in neutral solutions; whereas that with benzoic acid is . paler and yellower. Uses, 8fc. Succinic acid is antispasmodic, I stimulant, and diuretic, but is now seldom used. Dose. 5 to 15 gr. SUC'CINUM. [L.] Amber. SUC'CORY. Chicory, or wild endive. (See page 427.) SUD()R1F'ICS. See Diaphoeetics. SU'ET. Syn. Sevum, Sebum, L. This is prepared from the fat of the loins of the sheep (or bullock), by melting it by a gentle heat, and straining the liquid fat. In this state it forms the adeps ovillus (Ph. D.), SEVUM (Ph. L. & E.), SEVUM oviLLUM, or SEVUM PE.EPAEATUM, employed in medicine and perfumery, as the basis of ointments, cerates, plasters, pommades, &c. Mel'ilot Suet. Syn. Sevum meliloti, L. Prep. From suet, 8 lb. ,* melilot leaves, 2 lb.; boil until the leaves are crisp, strain, and allow it to cool very slowly, so that it may ‘ grain well.’ Used by farriers, and to make melilot plaster. SUFFOCATION. The treatment varies with the cause. See Asphyxia, Chaecoal, Deowning, Hanging, Sulphueetted Hy- DEOGEN, &C. SUG'AR. Syn. Cane sugae ; Sacchaeum, L.; SuCEE, Fr. This well-known and most useful substance is found in the juice of many of the canes or grasses, in the sap of several forest trees, and in the roots of various plants. In tropical climates it is extracted from the sugar-cane {Saccharum officinarum), in China from the sweet sorgho {Sorghum saccharatum), in North America from the sugar-maple {Acer saccharinum), and in France from white beet- root {Beta vulgaris, var. alba). The ordinary sugar used in England is extracted from the sugar-cane which is raised so abundantly in our numerous colonies. The manufacture of sugar is exclusively conducted on the large scale. The recent canes are crushed between rollers, and the expressed juice is suffered to flow into a suit- able vessel, where it is slowly heated to nearly the boiling-point, to coagulate albuminous matter. A small quantity of milk of lime is then added, to remove mechanical impurities, and the skimmed and clarified juice, after being sufficiently concentrated by rapid evaporation in open pans, is transferred to coolers, and thence into upright casks perforated at the bottom, and so placed that the syrup, or un- crystallizable portion, may drain off into a tank or cistern from the newly formed sugar. During the period of crystallization it is fre- quently agitated, in order to hasten the change, and to prevent the formation of large crystals. The solid portion of the product forms moist, EAW, or MUSCOVADO SUGAE; the uncrystal- lizable syrup, molasses or teeacle.^ Raw sugar is refined by redissolving it in water, adding to the solution albumen, under the form of serum of blood or white of egg, and, sometimes, a little lime-water, and heating the whole to the boiling-point; the impurities are then removed by careful skimming, and the 1 Tlie term ‘ molasses’ is usually restricted to the drain- ings from raw sugar, and ‘ treacle’ to the thicker syrup which has drained from refined sugar in the moulds.