ALDECAY—ALDEHYDE-AMMONIA. 88 possess little medicinal virtue. The bark of the young branches of the cork-tree (‘quercus suber’), used in tanning, is also sometimes called ‘ alcornoco-harkbut possesses none of the characters of the former article. AL'DECAY. The galls on the leaves of myrobalanus chebula (Oaertn.), a forest-tree of Bengal. Equal to the best oak-galls, AL'DEHYDE (-hide). [al-(co\io\)-dehyd (ro- genatus).] Syn. Htdeated oxide oe ace- TYLE; HtDEATE OF OTHYLE*; HyDEOXIDE OP o,* Literally, dehydrogenated alcohol. In chemistry, a peculiar ethereal liquid, first ob- tained in a pure form by Liebig, from alcohol. It is produced under various circumstances, particularly during the destructive distillation of certain organic matters, and in several pro- cesses of oxidation. The following are the most convenient methods of preparing it:— Prep. 1. (Liebig.) Sulphuric acid, 3 parts; is diluted with water, 2 parts; and as soon as the mixture has cooled, alcohol of 802, 2 parts, is added ; and, subsequently, peroxide of manga- nese (in fine powder), 3 parts. The whole, after agitation, is then distilled at a very gentle heat, from a spacious retort into a receiver surrounded with ice, the connection between the two being perfectly air-tight. The pro- cess is continued until frothing commences, or the distillate becomes acid; which generally occurs when about one-third (3 parts) has passed over. The distillate is next agitated, in a retort, with about its own weight o^fused chloride of calcium, in powder; after which about one-half only is drawn over at a very gentle heat (85° to 90° Eahr.), by means of a water-bath. This rectification is repeated in a precisely similar way. The last distillate is ANHYDEOUS ALDEHYDE Only slightly contami- nated with foreign matters. 2, (Liebig.) Jldehyd-ammonia, 2 parts, is dissolved in an equal weight of distilled water ; and, after being placed in a retort, sulphuric acid, 2 or 3 parts, previously diluted with rather more than its own weight of distilled water, and allowed to cool, is added. The whole is now distilled, by means of a water- bath, into a receiver surrounded with ice, or (preferably) a free zing-mixture, the tempera- ture of the bath at first being very low, and the operation being stopped as soon, or rather, before the water begins to boil. The distillate is then placed in a retort connected with a well-cooled receiver, as before; and after all the joints are made perfectly tight, powdered fused chloride of calcium, in weight equal to that of the liquid in the retort, is added through the tubulature. The heat produced by the ‘ hydration’of the chloride causes the distil- lation to commence, after which it is carried on, by means of a water-bath, at a temperature ranging from 80° to 82° Eahr. This rectifica- tion being very carefully repeated, the last distillate is puee anhydeous aldehyde. Prop., 8rc. Limpid, colourless, ethereal, neutral, inflammable; mixes in all proportions with alcohol, ether, and water; odour, pecu- liar, penetrating, and, when strong, exceed- ingly suffocating, the vapour, in quantity, producing spasmodic (contraction of the tho- rax; boils at 72° Eahr. (70°—Ure, 5th ed.) ; sp. gr. *790 at 60°, and ‘800 at 32° Eahr.; sp. gr. of vapour, 1-532; by exposure to air it is gradually converted into acetic acid, and speedily so under the influence of platinum- black; heated with caustic potassa, a brown substance resembling resin (aldehyde-eesin) is formed; gently heated with protoxide of silver, or its solutions, metallic silver is depo- sited on the inner surface of the vessel, in a uniform and brilliant film, whilst aldehydate OF SILVEE remains in solution; heated with hydrocyanic acid it yields alanine. By age, even in close vessels, it passes into one or more isomeric compounds (elaldehyde; metal- dehyde), with change of properties. Alde- hyde for experiments should, therefore, be al- ways recently prepared; and it must be kept in a well-stopped bottle, in a very cold place, and preferably, in ice. Obs. Aldehyde is important for its assumed position in the acetyl-series, and the part which it plays in the process of acetification, &c. The word is now also commonly em- ployed, by chemists, as a generic term for any organic substance which, by assimilating two equivalents of hydrogen, yields, or would yield, a compound having the composition or pro- perties of an ‘ alcohol’; or which, by taking up two equiv. of oxygen, yields an ‘ acid.’ Many of the essential oils (as those of almonds, cinnamon, and cumin) are composed principally of bodies which may thus be called aldehydes. One of the most valuable properties of these substances, is their strong tendency to com- bine with the bisulphites of ammonia, potassa, and soda; and by which they may be sepa- rated from complex mixtures. See Acetifi- cation, Alanine, Alcohol, Atdehyd-am- MONiA, Elaldehyde, Metaldehyde, &c. Bichlo"ronetted AWehyde. Chloral. AL'DEHYDE-AMMO"NIA (-hid-). Syn. Al- DEHYD-AMMONIA. An ammonia-compound of aldehyde, discovered by Dobereiner and Liebig. Prep. (Liebig.) Aldehyde (of process No. 1, above) is mixed with an equal volume of ether} in a flask surrounded with ice, or (what is better) 2, freezing-mixture; and is then sa- turated with dry gaseous ammonia. The crys- tals which soon form, after being washed with ether, and dried by means of bibulous paper and a short exposure to the air, are phee al- DEHYD-AMMONIA. Prop., dye. It smells like a mixture of tur- pentine and ammonia; melts at 165° to 170°; volatilises, unchanged, at 212° Fahr.; decom- posed by exposure to the air; very soluble in water; soluble in alcohol, and more or less so in most other menstrua, except ether; acids decompose it. With sulphuretted hydrogen 1 Some authorities recommend the use of twice this quantity of ether.