635 FERN—FERRIC ACID. : ing, of course, according to the precise com- I position of such substances, j Fermentation or putrefaction differs from ! EREMACAUSIS or decay, in being limited to j changes occurring in and beneath the surface ' of water, the effect being a mere transpo- ' sition of elements, or a metamorphosis of the ! organic body. Eeemacatisis, on the other hand, refers to the decomposition of moist I organic matter, when freely exposed to the 1 air, by the oxygen of which it is gradually I burned and destroyed, without any sensible i elevation of temperature. Although the pre- ; sence of oxygen is essential to the commence- jment of this change, whenever fermentation jis freely established it is no longer necessary, [as it proceeds without the aid of any other .substance external to the decomposing body, unless it be water or its elements. Every case of putrefaction or fermentation, therefore, com- mences with decay; and if the decay or its I cause, namely, the absorption of oxygen, be prevented, no putrefaction occurs. The entire (absence of the exciting causes—warmth, air, land moisture—leaves even those substances I which under ordinary circumstances are most liable to change, in a state in which they may iremain for an almost indefinite period without j perceptible alteration. Thus, animal substances (in a frozen or dry state do not undergo de- ; composition, nor does a solution of sugar or I the juice of grapes {must) when perfectly ex- Icludedfrom the air ; but on the mere exposure jof these substances to warmth, moisture, or atmospheric air, putrefaction or fermentation !immediately commences. Remove the cork [from the bottle of ‘ capillaire’ on the parlour sideboard, or pierce the skin of one of the (grapes on the dessert table with a needle, and [these bodies, which would have otherwise suf- Ifered no change for weeks, or even months, I will soon exhibit symptoms of spontaneous decomposition. The knowledge of this fact has been practically applied to the preservation of animal and vegetable substances for food. Even the most putrescible of these may be preserved for an unlimited period by enclosure in metallic cases, or glass bottles, from which the air has been completely removed and ex- cluded. The important duties which fermentation or putrefaction performs in the economy of our globe, and in several of the arts of life and civilization, have long rendered the de- velopment of its principles an object of the liighest interest and importance, both in a scientific and practical point of view. In its most extended sense, this subtile process of nature, though occasionally productive of inju- rious effects, may be regarded as one of the most necessary and beneficial with which we are acquainted. Like the labours of a sca- venger, it speedily removes from the surface of our globe those matters which wo\ild otherwise remain for some time without undergoing de- composition. It either dissipates in air, or reduces to more fixed and useful forms of matter, those organic substances which, by their presence, would prove noxious, or, at all events, useless to the animal and vegetable kingdoms. It is the giant power that cleans the Augean stable of nature, at the same time that it provides some of the most esteemed articles of utility and luxury for the well- being and enjoyment of man. Chemists have distinguished fermentation into different varieties, which, in general, are named after the more important products of its action. Of late years, the number of these varieties has been greatly increased by the extension of the term to several operations besides those formerly included under it. See Acetieicatiok, Bread, Putrefaction, Brewing, &c. FERN (Male). Syn. Male shield fern; Filix mas. Radix filicis, L. The root (rhizome) of the Lastrcea Filix-mas, or male fern. It is bitter, astringent, and vermifuge. Bose. 1 to 3 dr., in powder, or made into a decoction, repeated for 3 or 4 days, and fol- lowed by a purge. It is chiefly given in tape- worm. In Switzerland it is deemed almost infallible, but has proved less successful in these countries. See Oils. FER'RIC ACID. Syn. Acidum ferricum, L. A peculiar compound of iron and oxygen, discovered by Fremy, obtained in combination with potassa. It has not been isolated. Prep. The compound of ferric acid with potassa (ferrate of potassa) may be pre- pared by either of the following forms. No. 1 being the most simple and certain:— 1. (J. D. Smith.) By exposing a mixture of pure sesquioxide of iron, 1 part, and nitre (dry), 4 parts, (both in fine powder,) to a full red heat for an hour in a covered crucible, and treating the brown mass when cold with ice-cold water. A deep amethystine-red solu- tion of ferrate of potassa is thus obtained. 2. (Trommsdorff.) From iron filings, 2 dr.; nitre, 4 dr.; (both in fine powder;) mixed to- gether, and placed in an 8 or 10 oz. crucible, heated to a glowing red, and still standing on red-hot coals; when combination takes place on one side, shown by the evolution of light and white fumes, it is removed from the fire, and as soon as the deflagration of the mixture has ceased the mass is scraped out on a cold plate, by means of an iron spatula, and at once crushed to pieces and bottled. Prop., The product of the last formula is a dark reddish-black mass, forming a superb red solution \vith water, which quickly under- goes decomposition, depositing sesquioxide of iron, and evolving pure oxygen. It is the substance employed by Dr. Payerne to keep up the vitality of the air in diving-beUs, unconnected with the atmosphere. For this purpose, it is only necessary to drop a piece occasionally into a vessel of water. According to Dr. Ure, the preparation succeeds best when a large crucible, capable of holding about a