PLASTEE. 1093 led as before, and “ stir the mixture con- I (intly until the plaster is cool.” 4. (IVholesale.) From bees'wax and good\ \''d, of each, 4 lb.; flies and yelloio resin, j I each, 6 lb. ; suet, 10 lb. A commonly used ^nnnla, the product of which is, how- jer, greatly inferior to that of the Phar- acopoeia. : Obs. All the above are used to raise blis- irs. The plaster is spread on white leather ith a cold knife, and is surrounded with a |mgin of resin plaster to make it adhere. A hce of thin muslin or tissue paper is usually |\ced between the plaster and the skin to event absorption. A little powdered camphor jsonietimes sprinkled on the surface of the [read plaster, to prevent strangury. A better |xle of obviating the action on the urinary j gans is by the copious use of diluents. This | aster should be rolled in starch powder, and |t with oil. jPlaster of Cantharides (Compound). Syn. jjPLlSTEUM CANTHARIDIS COMPOSITUM, L. \'ep. (Ph. E.) Venice turpentine, 4^ oz.; | ntharides and Burgundy jntch, of each, 3 oz.;: es' wax, 1 oz.; verdigris (in fine powder), az.; powdered mustard and black pepper, ofj ch, 2 dr.; mix at a heat under 212° Fahr. ronger than the last, and quicker in its tion; but it causes more pain, and is much are apt to occasion troublesome ixlcerations. )ed in gout, spasms of the stomach, &c. I Capuchin' Plaster. See Plastee of Eu- [OEBTUM, Plaster of Car'bonate of Lead. Syn. Em- ASTEEM PLTJMBI CAEBONATIS, E. CEETJSS^, ' Prep. (P. Cod.) Carbonate of lead, 1 lb.; '■ve oil ia\dwate7’, of each, 2lb.; boil them I Igether until they combine and form a plas- r; lastly, remelt this with while wax, 3^ oz. s properties resemble those of ordinary lead aster. An excellent emollient and defensive aster. See Mahy^s Plastee. Cephal'ic Plaster. Syn. Labdanuji plas- !:R; EMPLASTErM CEPHALICUM, E. LABDANI, . Prep. (Ph. L. 1788.) Labdanum, 3 oz.; ankincense (thus), 1 oz.; melt, and add to | le mixture, when nearly cold, powdered cinna- \ on and expressed oil of mace, of each, ^ oz.; I of mint, 1 dr. Applied to the forehead or uiples, in headache; to the stomach, in >lds, &c. See Burgundy Pitch Plas- ’E, &c. Cheselden’s Stick'ing Plaster. Syn. Em- | r.ASTRUM PLUMBi CUM PICE, L. Prep. From | ad plaster, 2 lb.; Burgundy pitch (genuine), i oz.; melted together. Corn Plaster. Syn. Emplasteum ad cla- os, L. Prep. 1. Resin plaster, 5 parts; lelt, stir in of sal ammoniac (in fine poxvder), part, and at once spread it on linen or soft ather. 2. (Kennedy’s.) From bees' wax, 1 lb.; cnice turpentine, 5 oz.; verdigris (in fine owder), 1^ oz.; mixed by a gentle heat, and )road on cloth. It is cut into pieces, and polished, and of these 1 dozen are put into each box. 3. (Le Foret.) Galbanum plaster, 2 oz.; melt by a very gentle heat; add, sal ammoniac and sajfron, of each, ^ oz.; powdered camphor, 2 oz.; and, when nearly cold, stir in of liquor of aminonia, 2 oz. Applied, spread on leather, to the corn only, as it will blister the thinner skin surrounding its base. 4. (Ph. Sax.) Galbanum plaster, 1 oz.; pitch, ^ oz.; lead plaster, 2 dr.; melt them together, and add verdigris and sal ammoniac (in fine powder), of each, 1 dr. For other formulm, see Yeedigris Plaster {below), and Corns. Court Plaster. Syn. Sticking plaster. Isinglass p. ; Emplasteum iCHTHYOCOLLiE, E. ADHESivuM ANGLicuM, L. Prep. 1. Jsm- glass, 1 part; water, 10 parts ; dissolve, strain the solution, and gradually add to it of tinc^ ture of benzoin, 2 parts; apply this mixture, gentlj' warmed, by means of a camel-hair brush, to the surface of silk or sarcenet, stretched on a frame, and allow each coating to dry before applying the next one, the ajDpli- cation being repeated as often as necessary; lastly, give the prepared surface a coating of tincture of benzoin or tincture of balsam of Peru. Some manufacturers apply this to the unprepared side of the plaster, and others add to the tincture a few drops of essence of amber- gris or essence of musk. 2. (Deschamps’.) A piece of fine muslin, linen, or silk, is fastened to a fiat board, and a thin coating of smooth, strained is given to it; over this, when dry, two coats of colourless gelatine, made into size with ivater, q. s., are applied warm. Said to be superior to the ordinary court plaster. 3. (Liston’s.) Soak isinglass, 1 oz., in water, 2^ fl. oz., until it becomes swollen and quite soft; then add of proof spirit, 3^ fl. oz., and expose the mixture to the heat of hot water, frequently stirring, until the union is com- plete ; lastly, apply four coats of the solution to the surface of oiled silk nailed to a board, by means of a soft brush. 4. (Dr. Paris.) Black silk or sarcenet is strained and brushed over 10 or 12 times with the following composition:—Gum bc7i- zoin, ^ oz.; rectified spirit, 6 oz. ; dissolve. In a separate vessel dissolve of isinglass, 1 oz., in as little water as possible; strain each so- lution, mix them, decant the clear portion, and apply it wai'm. When the last coating is quite dry, a finishing coat is given with a solution of Chio turpentine, 4 oz., in tincture of benzoin, 6 oz. Ohs. The common ‘ Court plaster’ of the shops is generally prepared without using spirit, and with merely sufficient tincture of benzoin, or other aromatic, to give it an agreeable odour. Formerly, black silk or sarce- net was exclusively employed as the basis of the plaster, but at the present time checkered silk is also in much favour. ‘Flesh-coloured