1380 APPENDIX. mixture to litharge plaster, 8 oz., previously melted with yellow wax, 1 oz., and incorporate them thoroughly. These proportions are given in Ph. E. (Seepage, 1094.) Lithaege Plastee (Emplasteum Lithae- GTEI; E. Plumbi, Ph. L.). Litharge, 4. Ih. ; olive oil, 1 gall.; vjater, 3^ pints. Boil in a copper pan for 4 or 5 hours, stirring con- stantly, until the oil and litharge acquire a proper consistence, and adding more water if necessary. Meecueial Plastee (Emplasteum Ht- DEAEGYEi). Resin, 1 oz.; olive oil, 1 fl. oz.j dissolve with the aid of heat; when cool, triturate the mixture with mercury, 3 oz., till its globules disappear; then add litharge plaster, 6 oz., previously liquefied, and mix. Opium Plastee (Emplasteum Opii). By the Ph. D. process {Prep. 4, page 1097). Pitch Plastee (Emplasteum Picis). To Burgundy pitch, 26 oz.; common frankincense, 13 oz.; resin, 4^ oz. ; yellow wax, 4| oz.; previously melted together, add, expressed oil of nutmeg, 1 oz.; olive oil, 2 fl. oz.; water, 2 fl. oz.; then, constantly stirring, evaporate to proper consistence. Eesin Plastee (Emplasteum KESiNiE). To litharge plaster, 2 lb., previously melted by a gentle heat, add resin, 4 oz., and hard soap, 2 oz., first liquefied, and heat them until they are thoroughly mixed. The proportions are the same in Ph. D. {Seepage 1097.) Soap Plastee (Emplasteum Sapohis). To litharge plaster, 2^ lb., melted, add hard soap, 6 oz., and resin, 1 oz., first liquefied; then, constantly stirring, evaporate to a proper consistence. Waem Plastee (Emplasteum Calefa- CIENS). Infuse cantharides, 4 oz., in boiling water, 1 pint, for 6 hours; then squeeze strongly through calico, and evaporate the liquid to one third; add to it, expressed oil of nutmeg, yellow wax, and resin, of each 4 oz.; soap plaster, 3i lb.; resin plaster, 2 lb. ; melt all together, with stirring, on a water bath. Platinum Foil. Named in Appendix as an article employed in analysis. Podophyllum—Podophyllum. “ The root” of Podophyllum peltatum, “dried; imported from North America.” This important cathar- tic has been introduced from the U.S. Ph. It may be used in all cases where mercury is indicated. Dose. 20 gr. of the powder of the root. See Resin. Pomegranate Root—Geanati Radix. See page 1104. Poppy Capsules—Papavee. “The nearly ripe capsules” of Papaver somniferum, “ dried, and deprived of their seeds; cultivated in Britain.” (See page 1107—also Red-poppy, below.) Potash. This base is represented by the hydrate (caustic potash) and eleven salts. Acetate of Potash (Potass.e Acetas). Prepared by Ph. D. process (3—page 111). Bicaebonate of Potash (Potassje Bicae- BONAs). Prepared by Ph. D. process {2—page 1113) , improved by the substitution of white marble for chalk in making the carbonic acid. Bicheomate of Potash. Named in Ap- pendix as an article employed in the pre- paration of medicines. Caebonate of Potash (Potass^ Cae- BONAs). In Mat. Med. No process. (See page 1112.) Caustic Potash (Potassa Caustica; Potass.® Hydeas, Ph. L.; Potassa, Ph. E.). From solution of potash, 2 pints, by the Ph. L. process (Hydrate of Potassa, 1—page 1117). A silver or clean iron vessel is ordered. Chloeate of Potash (PoTASSiE Chloeas). The process given for preparing this is essen- tially the same as that of Graham (3—page 1114) . Carbonate of potash, 20 oz., is tritu- rated with slaked lime, 53 oz., and sufiicient distilled water to render the mixture slightly moist. This is placed in a large carboy, and exposed to the action of chlorine (generated from black oxide of manganese, 80 oz., and commercial hydrochloric acid, 24 pints, and washed by passing through 6 fl. oz. of water). When all the gas has come over, the contents of the carboy are removed, and boiled for 20 minutes with distilled water, 7 pints. The solution is filtered, evaporated till a film forms, and set aside to crystallize. The crystals thus obtained are purified by solution in thrice their weight of boiling distilled water, and re- crystallization. CiTEATE OF Potash (Potass.® Citeas). A new officinal salt, prepared by exactly neu- tralizing a solution of citric acid (distilled w'ater, 2 pints ; acid in crystals, 6 oz., or q. s.) with carbonate of potash (8 oz., or q. s.); eva- porating to dryness, stirring till the salt gra- nulates. A valuable diaphoretic in fever or scurvy. Dose. 20 to 30 gr. Niteate of Potash (Potassje Niteas). For medicinal use, the commercial salt (named in Appendix) is ordered to he purified by the Ph. D. formula for Potass.® Niteas pueum {\—page 1118). Peemanganate of Potash (Potass® Pee- MANGANAs). A new officinal salt, prepared as follows :—Chlorate of potash, in fine powder, 3|- oz. ; black oxide of manganese, also in fine powder, 4 oz.; mix, transfer to a porcelain basin, and add caustic potash, 5 oz., previously dissolved in distilled water, pints; evaporate to dryness on a sand bath, stirring to prevent spurting; pulverize the product, place it in a covered clay crucible, and expose it to a dull red heat for 1 hour, or till a semi-fused mass is obtained. When cool, pulverize, and then boil in distilled water, 1^ pint. After subsidence, decant the clear fluid, and boil the residue again with distilled water, ^ pint, decanting afterwards as before. Unite the liquors, neu- tralize accurately with dilute sulphuric acid, evaporate till a pellicle forms, and set aside to crystallize. Drain the crystalline mass, boil it in distilled water, 6 fl. oz.; strain the solution