1314 VINEGAR. air. One inch above the bottom is a syphon- formed discharge pipe, whose upper curvature stands one inch below the level of the air-holes in the side of the tub. The floors or partitions of the tub or generator being covered with birch twigs or beech chips to the depth of a few inches, the alcoholic liquor (first heated to between 75° and 83° Fahr.) is introduced at the upper part of the apparatus. This im- mediately commences trickling slowly down through the holes by means of the packthreads, diffuses itself over the chips or twigs forming the respective strata, slowly collects at the bottom of the tub, and then runs off by the syphon pipe. The air enters by the circum- ferential holes, circulates freely through the tub, and escapes by the glass tubes. As the acetification proceeds, the temperature of the liquid rises to 100° or 105° Fahr., and remains stationary at that point while the action goes on favourably. The alcoholic solu- tion or wort requires to be passed three or four times through the cask before acetification is complete, which is, in general, effected in from 24 to 36 hours. Obs. For the production of a superior vinegar by this process, it is necessary that the spirit employed be sufficiently pure not to con- taminate the product with its flavour or odour, and that the malt-wort should be fermented and treated with all the care usually employed in the production of beer. The best English manufacturers who have adopted this process are in the habit of filtering or clarifying ilaeir fermented wash, and also of storing it away for several months before they subject it to acetification va.i\iQgraduator. The most favourable temperature for the pro- cess is about 90° Fahr., and this should be preserved, as much as possible, by artificial means. Prod. A malt-wort of the sp. gr. 1‘072, or, in “ technical language, weighing about 26 lb. per barrel, afforded a vinegar containing 5*4g of pure acetic acid, and a residuary extract of 10 lb., from 36 gall. The former of these would indicate 35 lb. of sugar, or 13’7 lb. per barrel of gravity; whilst the latter shows 3’8 lb. per barrel; the two united being only 17*5 lb., instead of 26, the original weight. The loss, therefore, has been 8’5 lb., or from a sp. gr. of 1*072 to less than 1050.’* (Ure.) Thus, about one third of all the extractive matter of the malt is lost or dissi- pated during the processes of fermentation and acetification. According to Knapp, a mixture of about 80 gall, of water, 9 gall, of spirit of from 44-to 45g Tralles (18 or 20 u. p.), and 3 gall, of vinegar containing 3*5§ of real acid, forming together 92 gall., yield, on an average, an almost equal quantity of vinegar, or about from 90 to 91 gall, of the above- stated strength. 4. Wood vineoak. See Pyeoliokeotts Acid. 5. Othee vaeieties or vineoae, of minor importance; chiefly domestic, and commonly * worked ’ as malt vinegar.—Ale VINEGAE, ALEGAE ; ACETTJM CEEEVISI^. From strong pale ale which has soured.—Aegol VINEGAE; ACETUM EX TAETAEO. From white argol or cream of tartar, 1 lb.; dissolved in boiling water, 2 gall.; with the addition, when cold, of proof spirit or whiskey, 3 pints.— Cetstal VINEGAE. Pickling vinegar, dis- coloured with fresh burnt animal charcoal.— CiDEE VINEGAE. From cider, worked as malt vinegar.—Geeman household vinegae. From soft water, 7igall.; honey or brown sugar, 2 lb.; cream of tartar, 2 oz.; corn spirit or whiskey, 1 gall.—Goosebeeey vine- gae. From bruised gooseberries and brown sugar, of each, 1^ lb.; water, 1 gall. Other fruits may be substituted for gooseberries.— Pickling vinegae. The strongest pale malt vinegar.—Raisin vinegae. From the marc left from making raisin wine, 1 cwt. to every 12 or 15 gall, of water, along with a little yeast.—Sugae vinegae. From brown sugar, 4 lb. to each gallon of water.—Whiskey VINEGAE. From whiskey, 1 pint; sugar, 2 oz.; yeast, a dessert-spoonful. Pur., tests, Sf assay. These are, for the most part, rather fully noticed under Acetic Acid, Acetimetey, and above. The following additional tests, &c., may, however, be useful: —1. Paper written on or smeared with pure vinegar is not charred when strongly warmed before the fire; if it is, the sample examined contains fully 2§ of oil of viteiol.—2. A small porcelain capsule, or china cup, dipped into a solution of sugar in 30 times its weight of water, and then heated to a temperature equal to that of boiling water, is not materially discoloured when a drop of pure vinegar ia poured on it; but a spot of an intensely broicn or black colour is formed if the sample con- tain only l-300th part of sulphueio acid; if it contains only 1-lOOOth part, the spot is olive green ; and if a less quantity, then only of a pale green colour.—3. The heavy white precipitate given with chloride of barium (see above) shows the presence of sulphuric acid; each grain, after being dried, and gently ignited, represents *344 gr. of dey sulphueic acid. If the precipitate from 1000 gr. of the vine- gar exceeds 2^ gr., it contains an illegal quantity of this acid.—4. If a solution of nitrate of silver gives a cloudy white precipitate, HYDEOCHLOEic ACID is present.—5. If, after the addition of 2 or 3 gr. of carbonate of ■ potash, and evaporation of the sample to dry- ness, the residuum deflagrates when ignited, the sample under examination contains NiTEic ACID.—6. If the vinegar be blackened by sulphuretted hydrogen or hydrosulphuret of ammonia, it contains either lead or copper. If it gives a yellow precipitate with iodide of potassium or chromate of potash, the metal is LEAD. If ferrocyanide of potassium gives a bronze-brown coloured precipitate, or a little olive oil, when agitated with some of the vinegar, be turned green, the metal is copped-