1307 VEGETO-ALKALI—VENESECTION. liquid in a clear white glass bottle, and sus- pend a piece of zinc in it, by means of a fine thread. Silver tree ; Arbor Dianne. From nitrate of silver, 20 gr.; water, 1 fl. oz.; dissolve in a phial, and add about ^ dr. of pure mer- cury. Tin TREE; Arbor Jovis. From chloride of tin, 3 dr. ; nitric acid, 10 to 15 drops; distilled or rain water, 1 pint; dissolve in a white glass bottle, and bang in it, by a thread, a small rod of zinc. Obs. In the above experiments, the metals are precipitated in a very beautiful arborescent form. It is curious to observe the laminae shoot out, as it were, from nothing, assuming forms resembling real vegetation. This phe- nomenon results from voltaic action being set up between the liquid and the metals. VEGETO-AL'KALI. See Alkaloid. VEL'LUM. A fine kind of parchment pre- pared from the skins of calves, kids, and lambs. The skins are limed, shaved, washed, and stretched in hoops or other frames, where they are scraped and trimmed with the currier’s fieshing-knife, and next carefully rubbed down with pumice-stone; they are, lastly, polished 'Viith. finely powdered chalk oy fresh-slaked lime, and then dried. A green colour is given with a solution of crystallized verdigris, to which a little cream of tartar and nitric acid has been added; and a blue colour, with a solution of indigo. The surface is often fin- ished off with white of egg, and subsequent friction. The skins of sheep are commonly used for parchment; those of he-goats and wolves, for drum-heads; and those of the ass, for battle- dores. The species of vellum used for church services by binders is said to be prepared from pig-skins. See Pounce. VEL'VET COLOURS. Syn. Map stains. Paper s. ; Lacca pluida, L. Prep. 1. (Blue.)—a. Dissolve litmus in water, and add ^ of spirit of wine.—b. Dilute Saxon blue or sulphate of indigo with water. If required for delicate work, neutralize the acid with chalk.—c. To an aqueous infusion of litmus add a few drops of vinegar, until it turns of a full blue. 2. (Green.)—a. Dissolve crystallized verdi- gris in water.—b. Dissolve sap green in water, and add a little alum.—c. Add a little salt of tartar to a blue or purple solution of litmus, until it turns green.—d. Dissolve equal parts of crystallized verdigris and cream of tartar in water. 3. (Purple.)—a. Steep litmus in water,, and strain the solution.—b. Add a little alum to a stained decoction of logwood.—c. Add a solution of carmine (red) to a little blue solu- tion of litmus or Saxon blue. 4. (Red.)—a. M2^jcor?i.ie ground Brazilwood in vinegar, boil a few minutes, strain, and add a little alum and gum.—b. Add vinegar to an infusion of litmus until it turns red.—c. Boil or infuse powdered cochineal in water contain- ing a little ammonia or sal volatile.—d. Dis- solve carmine in liquor of ammonia, or in weak carbonate of potash water ; the former is superb. 5. (Yellow.)—a. Dissolve gamboge in water, and add a little alum.—b. Dissolve gamboge in equal parts of proof spirit and water. Golden coloured.—c. Steep French berries in boiling water, strain, and add a little alum.—d. Steep turmeric, round zedoary, gamboge, or annotta, in a weak ley of subcarbonate of soda or pot- ash. Obs. The preceding, thickened with a little gum, are used as inks for writing, as colours to tint maps, foils, paper, artificialfiowers, &c., and to paint on velvet. Some of them are very beautiful. Those containing litmus are, however, fugitive. It must be observed, that those made with strong spirit do not mix well with gum water, unless somewhat diluted with water. Any other transparent colours or stains may be employed for painting on velvet, as well as the above. VELVET LEAF. Syn. Pareira brava, Pareira (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. “ The root of Cissampelos Pareira” (Ph. L.), white pareira or velvet leaf. It is tonic, aperient, and diu- retic. Dose. 20 to 60 gr.; in chronic and pu- rulent inflammation and extreme irritability of the bladder; in leucorrhoea, dropsy, ulcera- tion of the kidney, &c. VENESECTION. Syn. Phlebotomy. The abstraction of blood by opening a vein. The operation is now confined to the veins at the bend of the arms, and to the external jugular; but was formerly practised on various others. The method of proceeding is as follows:—“ A band or ligature is to be applied around the arm above the point at which the vein is to be opened, so as to obstruct the passage of the blood to the heart; this causes an enlargement and turgidity of the vessel below the ligature. This bandage should never be applied so tightly as to prevent the passage of blood in the arte- ries of the part. The vein is to be opened by means of a common or thumb-lancet, or a spring lancet. In using the first, the vein is to be kept from rolling by means of the thumb of the left hand, placed a small distance below where the puncture is to be made; but care should be taken not to alter the relative posi- tion of the skin and vein, because in resuming their position after the lancet is inserted, the aperture through the skin will no longer cor- respond with that in the vein, in consequence of which a thrombus or ecchymosis will form— a very common accident in venesection. The lancet is to be pushed into the vein, and w'hen its point is within the cavity of the vessel, it is to be carried forward a little, so as to en- large sufficiently the opening. The arm is to be kept extended after the operation until the necessary quantity of blood is taken. If the blood should not fiow as freely as is desired, the patient should exert the muscles of the