746 HYDROGUEET—HYDROMETEE. with a closely fitting cork, through Avhich a | small bent tube passes, and containing a little j sulphuret of iron and water, is all that is necessary in this way. When the gas is re- quired tbr testing, the addition of a drop or two of oil of vitriol will cause it to be at once evolved. Its solution (sulphuretted hy- drogen WATER, LIQUID S. H., LIQUID HYDRO- SULPHURIC acid) is often used in place of the gas. It is prepared by passing the gas into cold water until it ceases to be absorbed. Air mixed with a minute proportion of this gas has been proposed as a sedative, in chronic irritability and inflammation of the lungs during phthisis; but its administration re- quires the greatest caution. In the form of vapour baths, it has been occasionally em- ployed in obstinate gouty, rheumatic, and cutaneous affections. Under the form of sul- phuretted mineral waters (Harrog ate water, &c.), it is a common remedy as an alterative and resolvent. Externally, sulphuretted hydro- gen water has been used as a wash or lotion. Hahnemann’s test-liquor, for detecting lead in wine, is formed of sulphuretted hydrogen water, 4 fl. oz., acidulated with tartaric acid, 1 dr. Pois., 8fc. Sulphuretted hydrogen is a very energetic poison, especially when it is respired; it is less poisonous when introduced into the stomach or the venous system; it is absorbed without decomposition, and causes great pro- stration, with a change in the texture of organs, and especially of the nervous system.— Treat. This consists in the immediate removal of the patient to the open air; the free exposure of the whole body, if the temperature will per- mit of it; the use of cold affusion (with caution), of artificial respiration, of friction, and of stimulants. If liquids containing sul- phuretted hydrogen or hydrosulphate of am- monia have been swallowed, a strong emetic should be given. Threatened congestion must be met by bleeding. Nervous derangement, spasms, and convulsions, may often be calmed by antispasmodics and the cold bath. If the asphyxia or syncope continues, mustard poul- tices may be applied to the feet and calves of the legs. 2, Persul'phuret of Hydrogen. Syn. Per- sulphide OF HYDROGEN. This is by boiling together equal weights of fresh- slaked lime and flowers of sulphur, in about 6 times their weight of water, for 30 or 40 minutes; the resulting deep orange-coloured solution is filtered, and slowly added to an excess of dilute sulphuric acid, with constant agitation; a white precipitate of separated sulphur and sulphate of lime makes its appear- ance, together with a quantity of yellow, oily- looking matter, which collects at the bottom of the vessel; this is persulphide of hy- drogen. It has a very powerful odour, the sp, gr. 1*769, and is a very unstable com- pound. TeVhiretted Hydrogen. Srjn. Hydeotel- I LURic ACID, Telluehydric A. A gaseous j compound of hydrogen and tellurium prepared in a similar manner to sulphuretted hydrogen, by digesting hydrochloric acid on an alloy of tellurium with zinc (‘telluret of zinc’). It possesses feeble acid properties, and precipi- tates TELLURETS Or TELLURIDES from metallic solutions. It is absorbed by water. HYDROG'UEET. The old name for a com- pound of hydrogen with a simple inflammable body or a metal. HYDROXIH'OHE. Two compounds under this name have been obtained by Wohler from KINONE:— 1. (Colourless hydrokinone.) Obtained by adding hydriodic acid to a solution of ki- none. Colourless crystals; neutral; odourless; tasteless; soluble both in water and alcohol; fusible; and volatile by heat. 2. (Green hydrokinone.) This may be obtained by the action of sesquichloride of iron, chlorine, or chromic acid on colourless hydro- kinone; or, by mixing together solutions of kinone and colourless hydrokinone. It forms slender green crystals of great brilliancy and beauty, which are fusible, and soluble in boil- ing water. KYDROLETC, HYDEOMARGAR'IC, and HYDROMARGARITIC ACID. By boiling the mother-liquor of metamargaric and metoleic acids, when a mixture of hydromargaritic and hydroleic acids rises to the surface, which, after being washed with cold alcohol, leaves the former pure. By heat it is converted into metamargaric acid and water. Fatty acids discovered by Fremy during his researches on the action of sulphuric acid on olive oil. The first is a liquid; the other two crystal- lizable solids, much resembling ordinary mar- ■ GARIC ACID. ■ HY'DEOMEL. Syn. Hydromeli, L. An aqueous solution of honey. Prep. (P. Cod.) Honey, 2 oz.; boiling water, 32 oz.; dissolve, and strain. A refreshing and slightly laxative drink; in fevers, hoarseness, sore throats, &c. HYDROMETER. Syn. Areometer, Gra- vimeter; Hydrometrum, L. An instru- ment for ascertaining the specific gravities of liquids, and hence their strength; the latter being either in inverse or direct proportion to their specific gravities. Spirituous liquors and ammonia water are examples of the one, and malt wort and syrups of the other. The fol- lowing are those best known ^:— Baume’s hydrometer or areometer, which is now very generally employed on the Continent, generally consists of two distinct instruments, the one for liquids heavier than water, the other for liquids lighter than that I fluid. The first floats at the 0, or ‘ zero,’ of the scale, in distilled water, at the temperature : of 58'^ Fahr., and each degree, marked down- * wards, indicates a density corresponding to one per cent, of common salt. The hydro- 1 For engravings of some of these instruments, and cer- tain j)urticulurs not given below, ^ccfages 63 and 64.