ALKALIMETRY. 98 carbonate), being placed in the larger flask (A), water is added until it is about one-third full. The tubes are then fitted into the apparatus quite air-tight; the end of the tube (5) is fastened with a piece of wax, and the whole is verg carefully weighed. The apparatus is now removed from the scales, and a perfo- rated cork, or a small piece of India-rubber tube, being temporarily applied to the end of the tube if), a few bubbles of air are sucked out of the flask {B) by means of the lips; the consequence of which is, that on re- moving the mouth, the acid in (R) ascends to a certain height in the tube (c). If in a short time this little column of liquid maintains its height in the tube, it is a proof that the apparatus is perfectly air-tight, and as it should be. Suction is now again cau- tiously applied to the tube if), and a little of the acid in (5) made to flow over into the flask {A), the quantity being proportionate to the vacuum produced by suction, and capable of being regulated at will. No sooner does the acid come into contact with the carbonate in the flask iA), than the evolution of carbonic acid commences, and this, from the construction of the apparatus, having to pass through the concentrated sulphuric acid, is rendered quite dry before it can escape by the tube (d) into the atmosphere. Whenever the effervescence flags, a little more acid is sucked over, until the whole of the carbonate is decomposed; after which an additional quantity is made to pass into {A), so as to raise the temperature considerably, for the purpose of expelling all the gas absorbed by the fluid during the ope- ration. As soon as this is effected, the wax is removed from the aperture {b), and suction ap- plied to (A), until all the carbonic acid in the apparatus is replaced by atmospheric air. The whole is now allowed to cool, and (together with the * piece of wax’ removed) is again accurately weighed. The loss of weight gives the exact amount of dry carbonic acid which was con- tained in the specimen, from which the weight of PURE ALKALI is readily estimated.—Every 22 gr. of dry carbonic acid gas evolved, re- presents exactly 31 gr. of pure soda, 47 gr. of pure POTASSA, &c., &c.; these numbers being the * equivalents ’ of the respective sub- stances (see p. 96), from which the pi^'^'-c^ntage strength may be found by the ‘ rule of propor- tion,’ as before explained. Thus, in the case of a 100-gr. sample of carbonate of soda which has lost 15i gr. of carbonic acid, by the assay, this would be— 22 : 31 : : 15i : 21-480 or nearly 21^ per cent, of pure soda. If 53, the equiv. of anhydrous carbonate of soda, be taken, instead of 31 (the eq. of ‘ pure soda’), the answer would have been, in the terms of that substance, 36-748g, or nearly 36| per cent. When an aliquot part of 100 gr. has been taken for the assay, either the result, or the third term of the proportion, must, of course, be multiplied by the ‘ denominator’ of the fraction representing such aliquot part; as already mentioned. (See p. 95, col. 2.) By multiplying the weight of carbonic acid lost, by the numbers opposite the names of the respective alkalies and their carbonates in the second column of the following liable, the equivalent per-centage value of the carbonates examined may be obtained in terms correspond- ing to the various denominations named therein^ when 100gr.,or any aliquot part of 100 gr.,have been tested; the result, in the latter case, being, of course, multiplied as before. By taking such a weight of the specimen for the assay as shall contain, in the state of car- bonate (reckoned as a standard), exactly 10 gr. of carbonic acid gas, or any multiple there- of, the per-centage ‘richness,’ in alkali, is at once shewn, without calculation, by the WEIGHT of that gas lost during the process. The standard weights recommended by Fresenius and Will, are — carbonate of soda, 4-817 grammes (= 74-3485 Troy-grains); carbonate I ofpotassa,Q'2'^^ grammes(=96-9756Troy-gr.); | the loss of weight, estimated in centigrammes, j and divided by 2, giving the per-centage richness ' of the sample examined in pure or anhydrous | carbonate. As, however, these numbers and the computations on which they are founded are not familiar to the English operative, others based on our own system of notation may be advantageously substituted. Indeed the principle may be so far extended that by taking certain standard weights for the assay, the quantity of carbonic acid evolved may be made to furnish the per-centage strength or \ value of the specimen in the terms of either the pure or carbonated alkalies, whether in their dry or hydrated state. The numbers in the SECOND COLUMN of the following Table, re- present the quantity in grains and decimal parts, of each of the substances named in the first column, equivalent to one grain of dry carbonic acid. These numbers, as already men- tioned, may be employed as factors for con- verting any numbers representing grains of that \ acid into the equivalents of these substances, true to 4 places of decimals; and further, they furnish us with the data for determining the exact number of grains v/hich must be tested, so that the loss of weight in carbonic acid shall at once give us the per-centage richness of the sample in the terms of the denomination for which it is taken. The numbers in the third COLUMN of the Table, formed by simply moving the decimal point of the numbers in the second column one figure further to the right, indicate the weights to be taken for the I assay, so that the loss of weight, reckoned in tenths of a grain, exactly represents the per- i centage strength in the terms sought. The I weights corresponding to the numbers in the FIFTH COLUMN, give the same results I provided the loss of weight is reckoned in quarter-grains: those in the sixth COLUMN effect the same when the loss of weight is reck- t oned in half-grains; whilst those in the last