902 MERCURY. solution. It is Imjhly poisonous, and must be exhibited and bandied with the greatest cau- tion. Its use is contra-indicated in cases com- plicated with pulmonary affections or nervous derangement. Pois.—1. Symptoms. Strong coppery or metallic taste; intense pain in the mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and intestines; nausea, vomiting (often bloody), diarrhoea, and (sometimes) violent dysentery (these evacua- tions are generally more frequent than in poisoning by other metallic compounds). After a certain time, there is generally an abatement of the severity of the symptoms; the circulation becomes slower, the pulse small and thready, the respiration gentle, and the skin cold; syncope then supervenes, and great general insensibility, always commencing at the pelvic extremities; and sometimes con- vulsions occur; the secretion of urine is gene- rally diminished, sometimes even entirely sup- pressed; 'Uut the patients always urinate if the sublimate has been employed in a very diluted state, and if drinks have been admin- istered. Death often appears to result from the shock to the nervous system, from intense exhaustion, or from mortification or intense inflammation of the primse viae. Poisoning by corrosive sublimate is distinguished from that by arsenic, by “ the countenance being flushed, and even swollen; whereas, in poisoning by arsenic, it is usually contracted and ghastly ” (Christison); and by “ the whitened condition of the epithelium of the mouth” (Pereira). 2. Antidotes. White of egg, hydrated per- sulphuret or protosulphuret of iron, and gluten, are each of them powerful antidotes. White of egg has proved efficacious in numerous cases. It requires the white of one egg to decompose 4 gr. of corrosive sublimate. (Peschier.) The recently precipitated proto- sulphuret of iron is, however, according to Miallie, the antidote par excellence, not only to corrosive sublimate, but to the salts of lead and copper. The gluten of wheat has also been recommended (Taddei); or, what is equally efficacious, wheat flour mixed up with water. When any of the above are not at hand, copious draughts of milk may be substituted. Iron filings have been occasionally used as an antidote. All these substances should be taken in considerable quantities; the dose should be frequently repeated, and the general treatment similar to that in cases of poisoning by arsenic.^ Vomiting should be, in all cases, immediately induced, to remove, if possible, the poisonous matter from the stomach. See lODo-CHLOEiDE OF Meecurt, and below. Chloride of Mercury and Ammo”uium. Syn. Sal alembeoth ; Hydeaegyei et ammonii CHLOEiDUM, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) From protochloride of mercury and sal ammoniac, equal parts, triturated together. “The ob- ject in adding the sal ammoniac here is to render the corrosive sublimate more soluble in ’ Sec gnt/e 22(5. water. The action of the latter is not other- wise altered.” (Redwood.) It is chiefly used for lotions and injections. Chlo”ride of Mercury and Quinine'. Syn. Hydeaegyei et quinjE chloeidtjm, L. Prep. (M‘Dermott.) From ptrotochloride of mercury, 1 part; hydrochlorate of quinine, 3 parts; separately formed into saturated solutions with water, and then mixed; the crystalline pre- cipitate is collected, and dried by a gentle heat. Bose. ^ to gr., made into a pill with crum of bread; daily, as an alterative in debili- tated habits; or combined with opium, thrice daily, to produce salivation. Cy'anide of Mercury. Syn. Bicyanide of MEECIIEYf, PeECYANIDE OF M.f, CyANUEET OF M.; Hydeaegyei cyaniddm, H. bicyaniddm, H. CYANUEETDM (Ph. U. S.), L. There is only one compound of cyanogen and mercury, the names of which, as applied by different parties, vary according to their view of the atomic weight of the metal, in a similar way to those of the chlorides, oxides, &c. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Ferrocyanide of iron (pure Prussian blue), 8 oz.; red oxide of mercury, 10 oz.; distilled water, 4 pints; boil for half an hour, filter, evaporate, and crystal- lize ; wash what remains frequently with boil- ing distilled water, and again evaporate, that crystals may form. This is Proust’s process. The formula of the Ph. U. S. is similar. 2. (Ph. D. 1826.) Prussian blue (pure), 6 parts; nitric oxide of mercury (‘ red pre- cipitate’), 5 parts; distilled water, 40 parts; as the last. 3. (Desfosses.) Ferrocyanide of potassium, 1 part, is boiled for hour with protosulphate of mercury, 2 parts, and distilled ivater, 8 ' parts; the deposit is separated by filtration, and the liquid evaporated to the crystallizing, point. 4. (Winckler.) Saturate dilute hydrocyanic acid with protoxide of mercury; evaporate and crystallize. Pure. Prop., 8^c. Heavy, colourless, inodorous, square prisms; tasting strongly metallic; soluble in 8 parts of cold water; slightly so- ' luble in alcohol. Those made by the first two I formulffi are of a pale yellow colour. It is I “transparent and totally soluble in water. ( The solution, on the addition of hydrochloric 1 acid, evolves hydrocyanic acid, known by its smell; and a glass moistened with a solution j of nitrate of silver, and held over it, gives a ' deposit soluble in boiling nitric acid. When heated, it evolves cyanogen, and runs into globules of metallic mercury.” (Ph. L. 1836.) It has been administered in some hepatic and skin diseases, and has been proposed as a sub- stitute for corrosive sublimate. (Parent.) It has been said to act directly on the skin and bones, and to have proved useful in allaying the pain of nodes and in dispersing them. (Mendaga.) It is, however, principally used as a source of cyanogen and hydrocyanic acid. Dose, to 5 gr. (beginning with the smaller i