IRON. 797 dilute hydrochloric acid, scarcely effervescing, and is again thrown down by potassa. The strained liquor is free from colour, and is not discoloured by the addition of either sul- phuretted hydrogen or ferrocyanide of potas- sium.” (Ph. L.) The hydrated sesquioxide of iron (feeei PEEOXYDUM HYDEATITM—Ph. D., FEEEUGO— Ph. E.) is “ entirely and very easily soluble in hydrochloric acid, without effervescence; if previously dried at 180° Fahr., a stronger heat drives off about 18§ of water.” (Ph. E.) Uses, 8fc. The precipitated oxide is em- ployed in medicine as a tonic and emmena- gogue, in doses of 10 to 30 gr. ; and as an an- thelmintic and in tic douloureux, in doses of 1 to 4 dr., mixed up with honey. It is also employed to make some preparations of iron. Rust of iron is likewise used in the same way. ” The calcined oxide is employed as a pigment, as an ingredient in a plaster, &c. The hydrated oxide is used medicinally as a tonic in doses of 10 to 30 gr.; and in much larger, as an antidote in cases of arsenical poisoning. We are indebted to Bunsen and Berthold for the introduction of this substance as an antidote to arsenic. A table-spoonful of the moist oxide may be given every 6 or 10 minutes, or as often as the patient can swallow it. (Pereira.) When this preparation cannot be obtained, rust of iron or even the dry so-called ^carbonate' (sesquioxide) may be given along with water instead. According to Dr. Maclagan, 12 parts, and to Devergie, 32 parts, of the hydrated oxide of iron are required to neutralize 1 part of arsenious acid. I'ehling says that the value of this substance as an antidote to arsenic is materially im- paired by age, even wh(sn kept in the moist state. The presence of potassa, soda, am- I monia, or their sulphates, chlorides or car- bonates, is not of consequence, and therefore, I in cases of emergency, time need not be lost I in washing the precipitate, which, in such cases, need only be drained and squeezed in a » calico filter. The magma obtained by pre- I cipitating sulphate of iron with magnesia, in f excess, and which contains free magnesia and IJ sulphate of magnesia besides hydrated per- ) I oxide of iron, precipitates arsenious acid, not [ only more quickly, but in larger quantity, 11 than the hydrated oxide does when alone. It ! j will even render inert Fowler’s solution, and ) precipitate both the copper and arsenic from [ solutions of Schweinfuri green in vinegar, which the pure gelatinous oxide alone will not do. I (Fehling.)* Phos'phates of Iron. Owing to the fact I that phosphoric acid exists in three allotropic ' conditions, the phosphates of iron are very I numerous. The following are those used in i medicine: — 1. Phosphate of Iron. Syn. Neuteal p. OF PEOTOXIDE OF lEON, BIMETALLIC FEE- EOUS OETHOPHOSPHATE (Odlillg); FeEEI ^ See Arsenious Acid,paye 226. PHOSPHAS (Ph. U. S.), L. A salt formed from ordinary or tribasic phosphoric acid, containing 1 equiv. of basic water and 2 equiv. of prot- oxide of iron (2 FeO, HO, PO^). Prep. (Ph. U. S.) Sulphate of iron, 5 oz.; phosphate of soda, 6 oz.; dissolve each sepa- rately in 2 quarts of water, mix the solutions, and after repose for a short time, wash, and dry the precipitate. Prop., &^c. A slate-coloured powder; inso- luble in water; soluble in dilute nitric and hydrochloric acid. Dose. 5 to 10 gr.; in amenorrhoea, diabetes, dyspepsia, scrofula, &c.; and externally, as an application to cancerous ulcers. 2. Phosphate of Sesquioxide of Iron. Syn. FeEEIC OETHOPHOSPHATE (Odling); FeEEI SESQHIPHOSPHAS, PhOSPHAS FEEEICUS, L. A white powder containing Fc203, POg . 4HO, obtained by precipitating sesquichloride of iron by phosphate of soda. Uses and dose, as the last. 3. Pyrophosphate of Iron. Syn. Feeeic PYEOPHOSPHATE (Odling). A salt containing sesquioxide of iron combined with bibasie phos- phoric or pyrophoric acid, having the for- mula 2 Fe203, 3POg. Prep. By precipitating a solution of sesqui- sulphate of iron with one of pyrophosphate of soda, taking care to operate at a temperature below 59° Fahr. Prop., 8fc. A gelatinous precipitate, which dissolves with facility in excess of pyrophos- phate of soda. The citrate of ammonia is the most eligible solvent according to M. Robi- quet, who first called attention to this salt as a remedial agent. “ A beautiful salt, in scales like those of citrate of iron, but of a lighter colour, is manufactured by the General Apo- thecaries’ Company, London, labelled ‘ soluble PYEOPHOSPHATE OF ieon’; it is probably made by precipitating the pyrophosphate, dissolving in citrate of ammonia, boiling the solution, and evaporating to a syrupy con- sistence, spreading on plates of glass with a brush, and drying in a stove.” (Parrish.) Dose. 5 to 10 gr. Phos'phuret of Iron. Syn. Phosphide of lEON; Feeei phosphueetum, L. Not used in medicine. It is frequently an accidental constituent of cast iron and bar iron, which it renders brittle or cold-short. Potas'sio-cit'rate of Iron. Syn. Citeate OF lEON AND POTASSA ; FeEEI POTASSlO- ciTEAS, Feeei et potass^ citeas, L. From citric acid, carbonate of potassa, and iron or sesquioxide of iron, by one or other of the processes used for preparing ammonio-citeate or AMMONio-TAETEATE OF lEON, the former of which it resembles in many important par- ticulars, and is preferable to it in affections of the stomach and mucous membranes. Potas'sio-tar'trate of Iron. Syn. Taeteate OF potassa and ieon, Feeeo-taeteate of POTASSA, Feeeic taeteate of p., Chaly- BEATED TAETAE*, TaETAEIZED IEON* ; FeEEI