MILDEW—MILK. 912 rubbing them with the leather they may be j breathed upon, but no whiting or liquid of any kind should be used, as each object-glass, | being achromatic, is a very delicate piece of workmanship, consisting of two lenses offlint- and crown-glass cemented together by Canada balsam. Compound microscopes are now sold by the best London makers at very low prices. A really good instrument, adapted to most of the wants of the chemical, pharmaceutical, or medical student, may be obtained for five guineas. MIL'DEW. Sgn. Rust, Bligut. The mouldy appearance on the leaves of plants produced by innmnerable microscopic fungi. The hop, wheat, and the choicest garden fruit- trees, are those most commonly attacked. The causes are said to be excess of moisture, and iibsence of the free circulation of air and sun- ahine. On the small scale, finely powdered s\d- phur is occasionally dusted over the parts af- fected, as a remedy. MIL'IARY FEVER. Sgn. Miliaeia, L. Among the other symptoms are—anxiety and frequent sighing, the perspiration has a strong and peculiar smell, and there is a sensation of pricking on the neck and breast, followed by an eruption of small red pimples, which in two or three days become white vesicles, dry up, peel off, and are succeeded by others. The moist weather of spring and autumn are the period in which it is most prevalent; and de- licate females, particularly in child-bed, are those most liable to its attacks. Sometimes it assumes a malignant character. The treat- ment of this affection consists chiefly in com- bating the depression of the system by a sup- ])orting diet; but everything that heats or stimulates the skin should be avoided. The apartment should be kept cool and well venti- lated, and cooling saline laxatives and bitter tonics, with cooling drinks, shoidd also be had recourse to. MILK. Syn. Lac, L. The value of milk as an article of food is clearly shown by the fact of it being sufticient to support, and to increase the growth of, the young of every species of the mammalia; at once supplying materials for the formation of the osseous, fleshy, and liquid portions of the body. “ The substances present in milk are wonderfully adapted to its office of producing materials for the rapid growth and development of the animal frame. It contains an azotized mat- ter, casein, nearly identical in composition with muscular flesh,/oZ/y principles, and a peculiar sugar, and, lastly, various salts, among which may be mentioned of lime, held in complete solution in a slightly alkaline liquid. “The white, and almost opaque, appearance of milk is an optical illusion. Examined by a microscope of even moderate power, it is seen to consist of a perfectly transparent fluid, in which float about numbers of minute transpa- rent globules; these consist of fat surrounded by an albuminous envelope, which can be j broken mechanically, as in the churning, or dissolved by the chemical action of caustic I potassa, after which, by agitating the milk with ether, the fat can be dissolved.” (Fowncs.) Comp. Cows’ MILK, of average quality, contains from lOg to 12g of solid matter when evaporated to dryness by steam heat, and has the mean sp. gr. 1'030; Avhile that of the skimmed mitk is about 1*035; and of the cream, 1-0244. (Ure.) The average ceeam of cows' milk contains 4-5g of butter; 3-5g of curd, and 92® of whey. (Berzelius.) The SKIMMED MILK consists of Water, 92-9,^; curd, 2‘8§; sugar of milk, 3*5g; lactic acid, lactate of potassa, and a trace of lactate of iron, •6g; chloride of potassium, phosphate of potassa, and earthy phosphates (lime), -2||. (Berzelius.) The following analysis of fresh milk is M. Haidlen:— Water . 873-00 Butter . 30-00 Casein . 48-20 Milk sugar. . 43-90 Phosphate of lime 2-31 „ magnesia •42 ,, iron •07 Chloride of potassium. 1-44 „ sodium •24 Soda in combination with casein •42 1000- Prop. These are well known. Perfectly fresh milk is slightly alkaline, but soon be- comes acid on exposure to the air, and after I a time white coagula of caseum (cueds) sc- I pa rate from it. This change is immediately effected by the addition of rennet or an acid. That from the first, when dried and pressed, constitutes cheese. Pur., tests, 8fc. The milk of London, until | recently, w-as, perhaps, the very worst, and | the most adulterated, of any in the world. 1 Now, happily, owing to the facility of trans- port afforded by the numerous railways, good milk is as plentiful and nearly as cheap in the metropolis as in the other large towns of the kingdom. The common frauds practised by the milk-dealers are the addition of water and < the subtraction of part of the cream. Some- times potato starch is added to the milk, to give it a creamy or rich appearance, and this addition is still more frequently made to cream, • to increase its consistence and quantity. The f method of detecting the first two of these n frauds is noticed under ‘ Lactometee.’ The 1 presence of potato starch may be determined ' by boiling some of the milk with a little ’ vinegar, and after separating the coagula by a r strainer, and allowing the liquid to become ♦ cold, testing it with solution or tincture of ^ i iodine. If it turns blue, starch, flour, or some other amylaceous substance, has been used to adulterate it. In most cases it will be suffi-