90 ALEBERRY—ALEUROMETER. quarter of malt, for ‘ ordinary ales’; and 7 Ih. to 10 lb. for ‘ keeping ales’. The proportions, however, must greatly depend on the intended quality and description of the brewing, and the period that will be allowed for its matura- tion. The stronger varieties of ale usually contain from 6 to 8^ of ‘ absolute alcohol;’ ordinary strong ale, 4^ to 67 5 ale, 3^ to 4^; and table ale, 1 to (each by ‘volume;’) to- gether with some undecomposed saccharine, gummy, and extractive matter, the bitter and narcotic principles of the hop, some acetic acid formed by the oxygenation of the alcohol, and very small and variable quantities of mineral and saline matter. See Beee, Bee wing. Fee- mentation, Malt-liquoes, &c. Devonshire White Ale. A liquor once generally drunk, and still in demand, in the neighbourhood of Kingsbfidge and Modbury, Devon. Prep. Ordinary ale-wort (preferably pale') sufficient to produce 1 barrel, is slowly boiled with about 3 handfuls of hops, and 12 to 14 lb. of crushed groats, until the whole of the soluble matter of the latter is extracted. The resulting liquor, after being run through a coarse strainer, and become lukewarm, is fer- mented with 2 or 3 pints of yeast; and, as soon as the fermentation is at its height, is either closely bunged up for ‘ draught,’ or is at once put into strong stoneware bottles, which are then well-corked and wired. Ohs. White ale is said to be very feeding, though apt to prove laxative to those unac- customed to its use. It is drunk in a state of effervescence or lively fermentation; the glass or cup containing it being kept in constant motion, when removed from the mouth, until the whole is consumed, in order that the thicker portion may not subside to the bottom. Medicated Ales. Syn. Beyt'oles ; Beij- TOLES, Fr.; CEEEVis'm Medica'tjs, L. In pharmacy, ale prepared by macerating medi- cinal substances in it, either at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere, or when heated; infusions and decoctions, in which ale or beer is employed as the menstruum. The old dispensatories enumerate several medicated ales; such as ceeevisia oxydoe'cica, for the eyes; c. anti-aetheit'ica, for the gout; c. cephal'ica, for the head; c. epilep'tica, against epilepsy; &c. Preparations of this kind are now seldom ordered by the faculty, and their use is chiefly conflned to the practice of empirics, and to domestic medicine. Bark, rue, savine, anti-scorbutic plants, aromatic bitters, and stomachics, are the substances most commonly administered in this way. Ale in which wormwood, gentian, orange-peel, and the like, have been steeped, taken warm early in the morning, is much esteemed as a restorative tonic by drunkards and dyspeptics. See Beee, Fuel, &c. ALE'BERSY. A beverage made by boiling ale with spice, sugar, and bread-sops ; the last. commonly toasted. A domestic remedy for a cold. AL'EGAR. Syn. Ace'ttjm CeeevisT^, L.; ViNAiGEE d’aile, Fr. Sour ale ; ale or l3eer vinegar. The latter is commonly prepared from ale that has become too old or tart for sale as such; and from waste liquor, by allow- ing them to remain in an unbunged cask, or other loosely covered vessel, in a warm situation, until sufficiently mature. See ViNEGAE. ALE'GILL {g hard). Ale or beer flavoured or medicated by infusing the leaves of ground ivy in it; pectoral, stomachic, and nervine. ALE'WIFE. The clupea serrata, an Ameri- can species of herring. Its proper name is a'loof although the established pronunciation and common orthography is ale-wife. ALEM'BIC. Syn. Mooes'head f; Alem'- Bicus, L.; Alambic, Fr.; Destilliekolben, Ger. An old form of distillatory vessel, usually made of glass or earthenware, but sometimes of metal. The body {a) which holds the liquid for distillation, is called the Cu'ctjebit; the upper part {b), the head or cap'itol ; (e) is the EECEIVEE. It is stiU frequently employed in the laboratory, in the distillation of articles that are apt to spurt over into the neck of the common retort, and thus vitiate the product. ALEUROM'ETER. Syn. Aledeometee, Fr. An instrument for determining the quantity and quality of gluten in wheat-flour, invented by M. Boland. It essentially consists of a hollow copper cylinder, about 6 inches long, and f of an inch internal diameter. This tube has two principal parts; the one, about 2 inches long, is closed at the lower end, forming a kind of cup, into which the gluten is placed; it screws into the remainder of the cylinder. The cup being charged with a sample of gluten, and the upper part of the cylinder being screwed on, it is exposed in an oven, or (preferably) in an oil-bath, to a temperature of 350 to 380° Fahr.^ From the length of the tube the gluten occupies in swelling, as measured by a gra- duated scale, its quality is determined. The ‘crude gluten’ of wheat-flour augments to four or five times its original volume, when thus treated ; but that from bad flour does not > Mr. Mitchell recommends the heat to be 420°; whilst Prof. Muspratt gives 284°rahr. as the proper temperature; but of these, the first is too high, and the other too low. About 210 gr. are also ordered to be taken for examination ; but the exact quantity is immaterial. (See Mitchell’s “ Falsification of Food”)