URINE—USQUEBAUGH. 1296 has a sweet taste, contains grape sugar, and is capable of affording alcohol by fermentation. The first variety, when the patient is not very debilitated or aged, admits of cure by the use of tonics, stimulants, and the mineral acids, supported by a nutritious diet and regular habits of life. When symptomatic of nervous disease or hysteria, the primary affection must be first combated. The second variety is in- curable. All that can be done is to avoid ex- citing causes, to abstain from vegetable food, to support the system by a general tonic treat- ment, and to allay irritation, and, as much as possible, diminish secretion by the free use of opium. Dysueia, or difficult micturition. The causes are numerous; among them the most frequent are gravel, stone, inflammation of the urinary organs, spasm, stricture, scirrhus of the prostate gland, and the absorption of the acrid matter of cantharides. When the urgings to empty the bladder are frequent, and the urine passes off only in drops, or in very small quantities, it is called steangtjey. When a sense of heat and pain attend the dis- charge, it is styled aedoe ijein^, or heat of urine. The nature of the treatment depends upon the exciting cause. Entjeesis, or incontinence of urine, com- monly arises from want of tone, relaxation, or paralysis of the sphincter of the bladder. Ex- cessive drinking or indulgence of the passions, compression, or the presence of some irritating substance in the cavity, are the more usual causes. In ordinary cases it may be relieved by the judicious administration of cubebs, tinc- ture of cantharides, or aloetics, supported by a tonic course. Blisters to the perinoeum are also serviceable. When occurring in young persons, especially females, during sleep, with- out any marked cause, the careful application of a little nitrate of silver, once or oftener, to the orifice of the urethra, will generally re- move the habit. IscHUEiA, or retention of urine {retentio nrince). This, like the preceding, may arise from various causes. The treatment, when the case is urgent, is drawing off the urine by means of a ‘ catheter^ carefully introduced through the urethra. When it depends on want of tone in the bladder, tonics, as chaly- beates and bark, are employed. When it de- pends on spasmodic stricture, fomentations, the warm or hot bath, or opium, often prove successful. In the last, the tincture of sesqui- chloride of iron, in doses of 5 to 10 drops, every 10 or 15 minutes, until nausea comes on, has been highly spoken of. This affection requires prompt treatment, especially when it happens diiring pregnancy, as when early attacked it is seldom attended with danger, but by a few hours^ neglect it may terminate fatally. Surgical aid should, therefore, be sought as soon as possible. “ Boys from the age of about 6 or 7 to 10 or 11 years are occasionally subject to pecu- liar attacks after having retired to rest for an hour or two. The patient starts up in bed, moans, struggles, is delirious, talks incohe- rently, and exhibits a total unconsciousness of all that is passing around him. This condition is purely nervous or spasmodic, and disappears as soon as the bladder is relieved by mictu- rition, an event which should be promoted by placing the patient in the natural position for that purpose, and employing continued coaxing until it occurs. Should this fail, the warm ; bath will generally afford almost immediate relief. We have noticed this affection, be- cause these attacks have been, to our per- sonal knowledge, referred to calculus, and on more than one occasion an operation was sug- gested.” (Cooley.) U'RINE. The density of the urine varies from 1*005 to 1*030; the average, in health, being 1*020, when it contains about 380 gr. of solid matter in the pint. According to Berze- lius, the proportion is about 6| g, the rest being pure water. It exhibits a decidedly acid reaction, and is never alkaline, except during disease, or the use of large quantities of alka- line salts of the vegetable acids. The average quantity secreted during 24 hours may be taken at 1^ to If pint. The presence of bile in urine, or other like fluids, may be detected as follows:—Put a small quantity of the suspected liquid into a test-tube, and add to it, drop by drop, strong sulphuric acid, until it becomes warm, taking care not to raise the temperature above 122° Fahr.; then add from 2 to 5 drops of syrup (made with 5 parts of sugar to 4 of water), and shake the mixture. If the liquid contain bile, a violet coloration is observed. Acetic acid may , be substituted for sugar. The presence of segae, and the quantity present, may be determined in the manner described at page 1246. White merino, that has been wet with a solution of bichloride of tin, is also said to form a ready test for sugar in urine. A portion wetted with the sus- pected urine, and exposed to a heat of about 285° Fahr., becomes blackened if sugar be I present. The quantity of eeea present in urine is best determined by treating that liquid with w a solution of pernitrate of mercury of known fj strength, alternately with a solution of baryta, hi as long as a white precipitate falls. As soon " as the whole of the urea is thrown down, the precipitate assumes a yellow colour. URINOM'ETER. An hydrometer adapted to determining the density of urine. That of Dr. Prout is the simplest and best. URN POWDER. Crocus martis, or jeweller’s rouge {page 796). URTICARIA. See Rash. US'NIC ACID. A substance extracted by alcohol from the Usnea barbata and several «|\ other lichens. It forms pale yellcfw needles, || possessing a metallic lustre. US'QUEBAUGH. Syn. Escubac. Literally,