RHAPONTICIN—RHODIUM. 1171 [train with pressure, and filter the liquid khilst hot j crude rhamnin will be deposited i s the liquid cools, which, by solution in \ oiling alcohol and filtration, may be procured n crystals. I Obs. Buckthorn juice (succus ehamni), I the juice of the fruit of Rhamnus catharticus iLinn,),” is officinal in the Ph. L. i EHAPON'TICIN. A peculiar, yellow, odour- 3SS, tasteless, and crystallizable substance, jbtained from the root of English rhubarb. It \i extracted by boiling absolute alcohol. See ilHABAEBEKIN. ' EHAT'ANY, Sgn. Rhatany EOOT; Kea- [EEIA (Ph. L. E. & D.), Rhatani^ eadix, u. “The rooto^ Krameria triandra.** (Ph. L.) it is stomachic, and powerfully astringent and jtyptic. Dose. 10 gr. to ^ dr., either in sub- ^ance or made into a decoction or infusion, t is much employed in tooth powders, to fix be teeth when they become loosened by the 3cession of the gums, and also for improving |be natural red colour of the lips and gums. L saturated tincture or fiuid extract, made ith brandy, forms the ‘ wine-colotjeing’ sed by the Portuguese to give roughness, fiour, and tone to their port wine. Haed jXTEACT OE EHATANY is also much employed )r the same purpose. EHE'IN. An inodorous, bitterish substance, f a yellow colour, obtained by gently heating owdered rhubarb with 8 parts of nitric acid of le sp. gr. 1’37, evaporating to the con- istence of syrup, and diluting with water. See uHABAEBEEIN. i EHEU'MATISM. Sgn. Rheumatismus, L. I n affection of the joints, and of the external jiuscular, tendinous, and fibrous textures of le body, attended with swelling, stiffness, and Ireat pain. Acute eheumatism, or eheu- lATic FEVEE,—AETHEITIS, infiammation of 1 le synovial membrane, or eheumatic aouT, I-SCIATICA, or rheumatism of the cellular jivelope of the great sciatic nerve, affecting jie hip,—and lumbago, or rheumatism of the jiins, are varieties of this disease. ’ The treatment of rheumatism consists in the Iministration of purgatives and diaphoretics If sudorifics, accompanied by tonics, as bark, juinine, &c. Calomel with opium, and iodide potassium, have also been frequently and iccessfully employed in this complaint. Of ite years the administration of the hicar- mate, citrate, or nitrate of potassa, in rather -rge doses, has been strongly recommended, ad in numerous cases adopted with success, lemon juice, liberally taken, has also proved |3eful in suddenly cutting short severe attacks '■ certain forms of rheumatism. The compound y)wder of ipecacuanha, taken at night, will jenerally promote the ease and sleep of the latient, and, by its sudorific action, tend con- derably to hasten a cure. Where possible, a ry atmosphere and a regular temperature lould be sought, since a damp atmosphere, id, indeed, exposure to damp under any form. are the principal causes of rheumatism. Stimu- lating embrocations, blisters, frictions, and, above all, the hot or vapour bath, are also fre- quently serviceable in rheumatism, especially in lumbago and casual attacks arising from cold. The daily use of oranges, or of lemon juice diluted with water, has been found, in the majority of cases, to lessen the susceptibility of those who employ them to attacks of rheu- matism and rheumatic gout arising from a damp situation or exposure to the weather. See Lemon Juice. EHEUMIC ACID. Sgn. Rhabaebeeio ACID. A name erroneously given by Mr. Hen- derson to the oxalic acid found in rhubarb. See Rhubaebeein. EHO'DIUM. A whitish metal discovered by Wollaston, in 1803, associated with palladium in the ore of platinum. Prep. The solution of platinum ore in aqua regia, after being saturated with soda, is pre- cipitated with cyanide of mercury, to throw down the palladium, and, after filtration, is mixed with hydrochloric acid, and the whole evaporated to dryness; the residuum is next powdered and digested in alcohol of the sp. gr. -837; the undissolved portion (double CHLOEIDE OF EHODIUM AND SODIUM) is then washed with alcohol, and either exposed to a very strong heat or gently heated in a stream of hydrogen gas; it is, lastly, boiled in water, and dried. The product is a white, coherent, spongy mass. Another method is to dissolve in water the portion left after the action of the alcohol, and to precipitate it by a plate of zinc. In either case, the solution from which the platinum and palladium have been separated in the ordinary method of preparing those metals may be employed, by which the process will be shortened. In this state it is a black powder. Prop., Sfc. Pure rhodium is brittle, and resembles platinum in appearance; it is the hardest, most difficultly fusible, and least soluble, of all the metals; it is insoluble in acids, even when heated, but dissolves in aqua regia when it is alloyed with other metals. Obtained as above, it is only blackened by heat; but with borax it acquires a white metallic lustre, though it remains infusible. Sulphur or arsenic, however, renders it fusible, and may afterwards be expelled by continuing the heat; but the button thus obtained is not malleable. It unites with oxygen and chlorine, and forms alloys with nearly all the metals. The solutions of its salts are characterised by their rosy colour. Sp. gr. about 11. Uses, 8fc. It is chiefly employed for tipping the nibs of metallic pens (*ehodium’ or *eveE‘ LASTING pens’). A very small quantity added to steel is said to improve its closeness, hard* ness, and toughness, and to render it less easily corrodible by damp. Chlo"ride of Rhodium. Syn. Sesquichlo* EIDE of EHODIUM, PeECHLOEIDE OF E. Ob- 1