VARNISH. 1300 between the fingers. The mixture is next allowed to cool considerably, but while still quite fluid, the turpentine, previously made moderately hot, is cautiously added, and the whole thoroughly incorporated. The varnish is then run through a fllter or sieve into stone jars, cans, or other vessels, and set aside to clarify itself by subsidence. When no driers are used, the mixture of oil and yum is boiled until it runs perfectly clear, when it is removed from the fire, and, after it has cooled a little, the turpentine is added as before. It is generally conceived that the more per- fectly the ^gum* is fused, or ^run,* as it is called, the larger and stronger will be the product; and the longer the boiling of the ‘ gum * and oil is continued, within moderation, the freer the resulting varnish will work and cover. An excess of heat renders the varnish * stringy* and injures its flowing qualities. For pale varnishes as little heat as possible should be employed throughout the whole process. Good body varnishes should contain lb.; carriage, wainscot, and, mahogany var- nish, fuUy 1 lb. ; and gold size, and black japan, fully ^ lb. of ‘ gum * per gall., besides, the asphaltum in the latter. Spirit varnishes should contain about 2^ lb. of ‘ gum * per gall. The use of too much driers is found to injure the brilliancy and transparency of the varnish. Copperas does not combine with varnish, but only hardens it; sugar of lead, however, dis- solves in it to a greater or less extent. Boiling oil of turpentine combines very readily with melted copal, and it is an improvement on the common process to use it, either before or in conjunction with the oil, in the preparation of copal varnish that it is desired should be very white. ‘ Gums * of difficult solubility are ren- dered more soluble by being exposed, in the state of powder, for some time to the air. Varnishes, like wines, improve by age; and should always be kept as long as possible before use. From the inflammable nature of the materials of which varnishes are composed, their manu- facture should be only carried on in some detached building of little value, and built of uninflammable materials. When a pot of varnish, gum, or turpentine, catches fire, it is most readily extinguished by closely covering it with a piece of stout woollen carpeting, which should be always kept at hand, ready for the purpose. An excellent paper, by Mr. J. W. Niel, on the manufacture of varnishes, will be found in the ‘ Trans, of the Soc. of Arts,^ vol. 49. See also the articles Alcohol, A^ee, Copal, Oils, &c., in this work. ArnTjer Varnish. Prep. 1. Take of amber (clear and pale), 6 lb.; fuse it, add of hot clarifled linseed oil, 2 gall.; boil until it ‘strings well,' then let it cool a little, and add of oil of turpentine, 4 gall, or q. s. Nearly as pale as copal varnish; it soon becomes very hard, and is the most durable of the oil varnishes; but it requires some time before it is fit for polishing, unless the articles are ‘ stoved.* When required to dry and harden quicker, ‘drying oil* may be substituted for the linseed oil, or ‘ driers * may be added during the boiling. 2. Amber, 4 oz.i pale boiled oil, 1 quart; proceed as last. Very hard. 3. Pale transparent amber, 5 oz.; clarified ^ linseed oil or pale boiled oil, and oil of tur- ^ pentine, of each, 1 pint; as before. t Obs. Amber varnish is suited for all pur- poses where a very hard and durable oil 4 varnish is required. The paler kind is su- perior to copal varnish, and is often mixed with the latter to increase its hardness and durability. The only objection to it is the i’ difficulty of preparing it of a very pale colour. : 5* It may, however, be easily bleached with some f- fresh-slaked lime. Balloon Varnish. See Flexible V a.enish ! {below). f‘ Bessemer’s Vamish. This consists of a pale k oil copal vamish, diluted with about 6 times ei its volume of oil of turpentine, the mixture ii being subsequently agitated with about l-30th Ic part of dry slaked lime, and decanted after a few days' repose. 5 parts of the product mixed with 4 parts of bronze powder forms ‘ Bessemer’s gold paint! Black Varnish. Prep. 1. (Black ambee VAENiSH.) From amber, 1 lb.; fuse, add, of : hot drying oil, 4 pint; powdered black resin, ' 3 oz.; asphaltum (Naples), 4o2-./ when pro- perly incorporated and considerably cooled, add of oil of turpentine, 1 pint. This is the beautiful black varnish of the cbachmakers. o 2. (Ieonwoee black.) From asphaltum, < , 48 lb.; fuse, add of boiled oil, 10 gall.; red li) lead and litharge, of each, 7 lb.; dried and i> powdered white copperas, 3 lb.; boil for 2 1| hours, then add of dark gum amber (fused), b 8 lb.; hot linseed oil, 2 gall.; boil for 2 hours j longer, or until a little of the mass, when tj\ cooled, may be rolled into pills, then with- draw the heat, and afterwards thin it down tin with oil of turpentine, 30 gall. Used for the ea ironwork of carriages, and other nice purposes, pf 3. (Black japan, Bithminohs vaenish.) k: —a. ^Tova. Naples asphaltum, hO lb.; dark gum ft] anime, 8 lb.; fuse, add of linseed oil, 12 gall.; ft, boil as before, then add of dark gum amber, iri 10 lb., previously fused and boiled with lin- [loj seed oil, 2 gaU.; next add of driers, q. s., and ^ further proceed as ordered in No. 2. Ex- i, cellent for either wood or metals. vi b. From burnt umber, 8 oz.; true asphaltum, 4 oz.; boiled linseed oil, 1 gall.; grind the umber with a little of the oil; add it to the asphaltum, previously dissolved in a small j quantity of the oil by heat; mix, add the f.,. remainder of the oil, boil, cool, and thin with a sufficient quantity of oil of turpentine. Flexible. i 4. (Beunswick black.)—a. To asphaltum, 2 lb., fused in an iron pot, add of hot boiled ^