1017 ORMSKIRK MEDICINE—OSMIUM. i old coloured brass or bronze, so finished off as 3 have the appearance of gold, or of being ilt; but it is often applied in a more general ?nse. The French more particularly excel 1 working in or-molu, and the products of his branch of their industry hold an im- ortant position in the art manufactures of I'rar.ce. I To give or-molu its richest appearance, “ it } not unfrequently brightened up after ‘ dip- ling' (that is cleaning in acid) by means of a b7'atch-brush (a brush made of very fine brass are), the action of which helps to produce a |ery brilliant gold-like surface. It is pro- jected from tarnish by the application of icquer.” (Ure.) ORMSKIRK MEDICINE. A nostrum sup- osed to prevent Jigdropliobia, so named after he residence of its inventor, Mr. Hill, of irmskirk. It is said to have consisted of the igredients named below, but nothing certain i known on the subject, as the inventor died dthout revealing his secret:—Chal/c, ^ oz.; \irmenian bole, 3 dr.; elecampane root, 1 dr.; him, 10 gr.; oil of aniseed, 5 or 6 drops; II in fine powder. For a dose, to be taken for successive mornings, in a glass of weak milk- nd-water. OR'PIMENT. Native yellow sulphuret of rsenic. The finest samples used by 'artists golden oi'pimeni) come from Persia. See aiSENic (Tersulphuret). OR'RIS. Syn. Oeeis BOOT, Floeentine e.; Iadix ieidis, L. The dried rhizo^ne of Iris dorentina, pallida, and Germaiiica. Sialo- ;ogue, irritant, subacrid, and errhine. Chiefly mployed to impart a violet odour to oils, tooth hwder, snuffs, spirits, &c.; and when cut into "eas, to keep open issues. ORSE'DEW. Dutch leaf-gold. ORSEL'LIC AC'ID. Two compounds pass mder this name—alpha-oesellic acid and lETA-OESELLic ACID. They closely resemble ach other, and are obtained in a similar nanner; the first from the South American ariety of Roccella tinctoria, the last from that ;rown at the Cape. ORSELLIN'IC ACID. Syn. Lecanoeic ciD. A compound formed along with piceo- lEYTHElNE, by boiling erythric acid for some ime with water. It is also formed by boil- ng alpha-orsellic acid with water. In both ■ases, if the ebullition is too long continued, he new acid is wholly or in part converted into mciN. Prop., ^c. Crystallizable j bitter-tasted; loluble in water; its aqueous solution, by ex- 30sure to the air, assumes a beautiful purple colour. 0RTH0P.ffi'DIA. In surgery, the straight- .‘uing, correcting, or curing deformities of fliildren. See Sueqeet. OSMAMIC ACID. See OSMic Acid. OS'MAZOME. The substance on which the peculiar odour and flavour of boiled meat and broth was formerly supposed to depend. Prep. From lean meat, minced, and digested in cold water, with occasional pressure; the filtered infusion is gently evaporated nearly to dryness, and then treated with alcohol; the alcoholic tincture is, lastly, evaporated. The product has a brownish-yellow colour, is soluble in water, and its aqueous solution is precipi- tated by infusion of galls and the mineral astringent salts. OS'MIC ACID. Syn. Peeoxide op Osmidm. This is obtained from osmium, in small frag- ments, heated in a current of pure oxygen. It condenses in the cooler portion of the tube, under the form of colourless, transparent crystals. Prop., fyc. Odour and vapour offensive and highly acrid; slightly soluble in water; melts at 165°, and boils below 212° Fahr.; nearly all the metals precipitate it from its solutions, as metallic osmium; its salts are called osmates; ammonia converts it into osmamic or osman- OSMIC ACID. OS'MIOUS ACID. Syn. Teeoxide op os- mium. Formed in combination with potassa by adding alcohol to a solution of osmaie of potassa, when a rose-coloured precipitate of osmite op potassa subsides. The acid has never been isolated. OS'MIUM. A rare metal found associated with the ores of platinum by M. Tennant, in 1803. Prep. The solution of osmic acid in ammonia (see Ieidium) is gently heated in a loosely stopped vessel until a brown precipitate falls; this is dissolved in hydrochloric acid; a little chloride of ammoinum is added, and the whole evaporated to dryness ; the residue is strongly heated in a small porcelain retort until the osmium is reduced to a grayish porous mass, having a metallic lustre. Prop., Sfc. Bluish white; somewhat brittle; easily powdered; neither fusible nor volatile ; heated to full redness in the air, it inflames, with the production of osmic acid, which volatilizes; its powder, W’hen digested in nitric acid, is slowly oxidized; fused with nitre, OSMATE OP POTASSA is obtained. Sp. gr. (greatest), 10. Osmium forms 5 compounds with OXYGEN. —Peotoxide op OSMIUM, a dark green pow- der, which falls, along with a little alkali, when liquor of potassa is added to a solution of the double protochloride of osmium and potassium. —Sesquioxide op osmium, a black powder formed by the deoxidation of osmate of am~ monia by heating its solution along with potassa. It always contains ammonia, and ful- minates when heated. Both the above are feebly soluble in acids.—Binoxide op os- mium, a black, insoluble powder, obtained by heating a mixture of carbonate of soda and the osmium and of double bichloride potas- sium.—Teeoxide op osmium (see Osmious Acid).—Peeoxide op osmium (see Osmic Acid). The principal compounds of osmium with