I 1103 rOllTER. the case might demand. The inconvenience and trouble thus incurred led Mr. Harwood to endeavour to produce a beer which should possess the flavour of the mixed liquors. In tills he succeeded so well that his new bever- age rapidly superseded the mixtures then in use, and obtained a general preference among the lower classes of the people. At first this liquor was called ‘ entiee ’ or entiee bett,’ on account of it being drawn from one cask only, but it afterwards acquired, at first in | derision, the now familiar name of ‘ poetee,^ j in consequence of its general consumption j among porters and labourers. The word I * entire^ is still, however, frequently met with on the signboards of taverns about the me- j tropolis. I The characteristics of pure and wholesome 1 porter are its transparency, lively dark brown j colour, and its peculiar bitter and slightly ! burnt taste. Originally, these qualities w'ere j derived from the ‘ high-dried malt’ wuth which | alone it was brewed. It is now generally, if not entirely, made from ^p>o.le’ or ‘ amber malt,’ mixed with a sufficient quantity of ^patent’ or ‘ roasted malt ’ to impart the necessary flavour and colour. Mall-wort evaporated to j an extract, and then partially torrefied in an iron pan, and, less frequently, burnt sugar or caramel, are also used for the same purpose. Formerly, this liquor v/as ‘ vatted ’ and ‘ stored^ for some time before being sent out to the retailer, but the change in the taste of the public during the last quarter of a century in favour of mild or new porter has rendered this unnecessary. The best ^draught porter’ at the time of its consumption, is now only a few weeks old. In this state only would it | be tolerated by the modern beer-drinker. The old and acid beverage that was formerly I sold under the name of porter would be re- ^ jected at the present day, as ‘hard’ and un- | pleasant, even by the most thirsty votaries of! malt liquor. j The ‘ beer ’ or ^porter ’ of the metropolitan ! brewers is essentially a weak mild ale, coloured j and flavoured with roasted malt or malt ex- j tract. Its richness in sugar and alcohol, on j which its stimulating and nutritive properties depend, is hence less than that of an un- j coloured mild ale brewed from a like original, quantity of malt. For pale malt is assumed I to yield 80 to 84 lb. of saccharine per quarter; j whereas the torrefied malt employed by the i porter-brewmrs only yields 18 to 24 lb. per ! (piarter, and much of even this small quantity i is altered in its properties, and is incapable of j imdergoing the vinous fermentation. In the j manufacture of porter there is a waste of malt which does not occur in brewing ale; and the consumer must, therefore, either pay a higher price for it or be content with a w'eaker liquor. The hygienic properties of porter, for the most part, resemble those of other malt liquors. Some members of the faculty con- ceive that it is better suited to persons with delicate stomachs and weak digestion tlui either ale or beer. That there may be som reason for this preference, in such cases, w are not prepared to deny, but undoubtedl^ when the intention is to stimulate and nouris; the system, ale is pireferable. Certain it i how^ever, that the dark colour and strong tasi of porter render its adulteration easier tha that of ale, whilst such adulteration is mon difficult of detection than In the paler varietii, of malt liquors. “ For medical purpose' ‘bottled porter’ (ceeetisia lagenaeia) usually preferred to ‘ draught porter.’ It useful as a restorative in the latter stages fever, and to support the powers of the syste after surgical operations, severe accidents, &c (Pereira, ii, 982.) When ‘out of condition or adulterated, porter, more than perhaps ai other malt liquor, is totally unfit for use a beverage, even for the healthy; and wh taken by the invalid, the consequences mv necessarily be serious. Dr. Tire says that pu\ porter, “ when drank in moderation, is a 1 wholesomer beverage for the people than t thin acidulous wines of France and Geruiam The manufacture of porter has been describ in our article on EEEWI^"G, and is also referr to above. It presents no difficulty or pe( liarity, beyond the choice of the proper n terials. A mixture of ‘ brown ’ and ‘ bk malt’ is thought to yield a finer flavour a colour to the pale malt that gives the body the liquor than when ‘ black ’ or ‘ patent iiia is employed alone. The proportion of 1 former to the latter commonly varies from l-( to l-4th. When ‘ black malt ’ is alone us, the proportion varies from the 1-lOth to 1-15 1 lb. of ^patent malt,’ mashed with about 7D of pale malt, is said to be capable of iinpr ing to the liquor the flavour and colour porter. The following formulae were forme commonly employed in London : — 1. (DeAUGHT PoETEE.) From pale m 3^ qrs.; amber malt, 3 qrs.; brown malt, qr.; mash at twice with 28 and 24 barrel: ’ water, boil with brown Kent hops, 56 lb., j set with yeast, 40 lb. Prod. 28 barrels, or times the malt, besides 20 brls. of table-l ’ from a third mashing. 2. (Bottling Poetee; Beown Stoii From pale malt, 2 qrs.; amber and brown m, of each, 1J qrs.; mash at 3 times with ll > and 6 brls. of Avater, boil Avith hops, 50 lb., 1 set Avith yeast, 26 lb. Prod. 17 brls., or 1 times the malt. The purity and quality of porter, as avc' ’ of other malt liquors, may be inferred in manner noticed under Beee (see page 2! ; but can only be jJositively determined b chemical examination. For this purpose s ral distinct operations are required:— 1. Richness in alcohol. This may be * rectly found by the method of M. Gay-Lus 'J or, fj-om the boiling-point. (See Alcohoix-• TET and Ebullioscope.) The method ’ anhydrous carbonate of potassa (see g. a.,