383 CALCULATIONS—CALICO PRINTING. is obtained, which on cooling deposits crys- tals. 3. PentasuTphuret of Calcium. Syn. Pen- tasul'phide oe calcium. Prep. As the last, but increasing the quantity of sulphur, and continuing the boiling for a longer period. Little is known about it. 4. Commercial Sul'phuret of Calcium. Prep. —a. As 1, b {above). b. Sulphur, 1 part; hydrate of lime, 3 parts; water, pints \ boil until it solidifies on cool- ing, then pour it out on a cold marble slab, and when solid, break it into pieces and pre- serve it in a well-corked bottle. c. (Guibourt.) Quicklime, 7 parts; sulphur, 4 parts; mix, and heat the compound for about 2 hours in a covered crucible. d. (Cottereau.) Quicklime, 2 parts; sul- phur, 1 part; wader, 5 parts; as 4, b {above). Ohs. The precise composition of the last three preparations is uncertain. They are acrid, caustic, stimulant, and diaphoretic. Dose. 1 to 3 gr. Sulphuret of calcium has been used as a depilatory by applying it made into a paste with water, and washing it off in about i of an hour. Made into an embroca- tion, it has been strongly recommended in gout, scabies, &c. Its solution yields pure sulphur on the addition of hydrochloric acid. CALCULA'TIONS (Useful). 1. To find the Value of a Dozen Articles. Take the price in pence as shillings, and if there are farthings in the price, add threepence for each. Thus 2s. 8^f., or 32 pence per yard, is 1/. 12s. per dozen. 2. To find the Value of One Hundred Arti- cles. For every farthing take as many pence and twice as many shillings. Thus, \\d. each, is—hd., and 10s. = 10s. 5d per hundred. 3. To find the Value of a pound at any price per ounce. Take the price in farthings as shillings, and divide by three. Thus, h\d. per ounce, is 21 farthings; taken as shillings, 21 -7- 3 = 7s. per pound. 4. To find Ihe Value of an ounce at any price per pound. Take the shillings as far- things, and multiply by three. Thus, at 6s.—6 X 3 = 18 farthings, or 4^i. per ounce. Obs. By reversing Nos. 1 and 2, the price of a single article or pound may be found from the price per dozen or hundred. For several other calculations, useful in domestic economy, chemistry, &c., see Beewing, Deci- mals, Equivalents, Measukes, Pee-cent- AGE, Weights. CAL'CULUS. Syn. Stone. In medicine, a hard concretion formed w’ithin the animal j body by the deposition of matters which usu- ally remain in solution. The concretions most commonly formed are those formed in the kidneys or bladder, and termed urinary calculi, and those formed in the gall-bladder ov biliary ducts, which are called biliary calculi. Both of these give rise to very painful symptoms, and may even threaten life. CAL'ENDAR. Syn. Calenua'eium, L. ; Ca- len'deiee, Fr. A table of all the days of the year, arranged in the order of days and weeks, to which are generally added certain astrono- mical indications and dates of great civil and religious events. The most remarkable ca- lendars are the Hebrew calendar, the calendar of the Greeks, the Roman, or Julian calendar, the Gregorian calendar (now adopted by all Christian peoples except the Greeks and Rus- sians), and the French Republican calendar, which, having remained in force about thirteen years, was abolished by Napoleon I. on the 1st of January, 1806. Perpet'ual Calendar. A table which furnishes the general indications necessary to construct a calendar for any year, and to resolve, without error, many difficulties connected with the verification of dates. CAL'ENDERING. The process of finishing by pressure the surface of linen or cotton goods. It is usually performed by passing the fabric between cylinders pressed together with great force. It is necessary that one of the cylinders, at least, shall be of a material com- bining considerable hardness with a slight de- gree of elasticity; for this purpose the paper cylinder is used. It is made by forcibly com- pressing a number of circular disks of thick pasteboard, each with a square hole in the centre, upon an iron axis, so as to form a solid cylinder, which is turned perfectly smooth and true in a lathe. The paper cylinder usually works against a hollow roller of copper or zVow,'heated by steam or metallic heaters. Before the final rolling in the calendering machine the fabric is lightly smoothed by passing over warm cylinders. Cotton goods are starched, and a fictitious ap- pearance of stoutness is sometimes given to them by employing starch thickened with plaster of Paris, porcelain clay, or a mixture of these. Watering is a beautiful effect pro- duced by means of a hot cylinder with a pat- tern raised upon it. Glazing is produced by combined rubbing and pressure, the rollers being made to move with unequal velocities, so that one side of the fabric is rubbed as well as pressed by the roller whose surface moves with the greater speed. A copper cylinder is preferred for glazing, and is made so hot that if the machine stops it burns the goods. The old method of glazing consisted in burnishing the surface of the fabric with a polished flint. CALTCO. See Cotton. CALICO PRINTTNG. The art of producing figured patterns upon calico, by means of dyes and moedants topically applied by wooden j blocks, copper-plates, or engraved cylinders. The goods are either directly printed in colour, or receive their pattenis by being run through a colouring matter or mordant, when the dye is only produced upon that portion of the ground previously prepared for it. Of late this system of dyeing has been extended to silks and woollens. The mordants are thickened with some glutinous substance, as flour, starch, or gum.