OILS (FIXED). 955 ! j portion as before; but in this case the oil and the reagent are always stirred together. The observations of M. Penot have been repeated in many cases by Mr. Cooley, and the I results, with additions, and rearranged, are given in the table overleaf. “ By perusing this table,” writes M. Penot, “ it will be observed that the same oil does not, under all circumstances, yield precisely similar results with the same reagent. This depends on the place of growth, the age, and the man- ner of pressing. If, however, any oil be ex- amined comparatively with a perfectly pure one, the proof of adulteration may be ren- dered, if not certain, at least probable, by noting the difference. Thus I obtained, by adding 1 part of either whale-train, or linseed oil, or oleic acid, to 10 parts of rapeseed oil, the following results :— Reagents. Name of Oil. Sulphuric Acid. Solution of Bichromate of Potash. Not stirred. Stirred. Stirred. Rape oil with wlialcTtrain oil Rape oil with linseed oil Rape oil with olein or oleic acid More red ground than with rape oil No perceptible difference from the rape oil No perceptible difference from the rape oil Brownish-olive coloured Olive coloured Greenish bro\vn ! Small reddish lumps on a gray ground. Small and more numerous red lumps on a very daxk- green ground. Small brownish lumps on an olive-coloured ground. “ The adulteration being ascertained as far i as is possible, the oil is then tested by endea- I vouring to discover the adulterating oil, either by reagents or by its odour when gently heated, I as before described. This having been found : out, small quantities of the suspected oil are j added to a perfectly pure oil of the kind under examination. Every mixture is then tested by the reagents, until precisely similar results are obtained as those yielded by the oil under I examination. Thus, the proportions of the I two mixed oils will be discovered by approxi- mation.” (M. Penot.) A simpler method of finding the proportions of the so mixed oils is referred to above. i 4. (From increase of temperature^ M. , Maumene proposed the increase of tempera- I ture arising from the admixture of mono- j hydrated sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol, sp. gr. 11-845) with the fatty oils as a test of their purity, but a sufficient number of observa- j tions have not yet been made to furnish data j for a general application of this method. Ac- I cording to MM. Faisst and Knauss, who have I re-examined the subject, the following are the I results when 15 grammes of oil are mixed with 5 grammes of the acid:— ! Rise of Temperature. j Almond oil 72-5° I Olive „ 68-0° I Poppy „ 127 0° Rape or colza oil 100'0° Linseed oil {with Nordhausen or fuming acid only) 133 0° ! The above method is less liable to error I when a larger quantity of the substances are ; thrown together. 5. T)[ie presence of fish oil in the vegetable oils may be readily detected by passing a stream of chlorine through them; the pure vegetable oils are not materially altered, but a mixture of the two turns dark brown or black. The following are the principal fixed oils met with in commerce, or which are objects of interest or utility :— Oil of Al'monds. Syn. Olehm amygdal.® (Ph. L.), 0. AMTGDALAKIJM (Pll. D.), O. AMTGDALI COMMUNIS (Ph. E.), L. “ The oil expressed from the kernels.” (Ph. L.) “ Bruise the fresh almonds in a stone mortar, then put them into a hempen sack, and ex- press the oil, without heat.” (Ph. E.) The oil of almonds of commerce is obtained from either the bitter or sweet almond, but chiefly from the first, on account of their less value, and the marc being employed in the manufac- ture of essential oil. Prop., S(c. Oil of almonds is bland, demul- cent, emollient, and nutritious; possesses a purely oleaginous taste, and is one of the most agreeable of the fixed oils; when taken in quantity, it is mildly laxative; it is little affected by cold, and congeals with difficulty; is soluble in 25 parts of cold and 6 parts of boiling alcohol; ether dissolves it freely. Sp. gr. -915 to -918. Av. prod. Sweet almonds, 46g; bitter a., 41g. , Pur. It is extensively adulterated with POPPY, NUT, and teel oil, and not unfre- queutly with eefined rape or colza oil. (See above.) Oil of Bay. 1. (Expressed o. of b. ; Oleum LAURI, O. LAURINUM, L.) By expression from either fresh or dried bayberries, as castor oil. Limpid; insipid.