BISMUTH. 317 i the acid is to be diluted with its ‘ own volume ^ of water, and the ‘ bismuth-solution/ after ' exposure for 10 minutes to a heat approaching ' ebullition, is to be decanted, and evaporated ' by a gentle heat (for the above quantity) to I about 1 fl. oz. before throwing it into the ' ‘ water,^ which should be here only 1 quart; and the ‘precipitate,’ washed by agitation with ' a quart only of water, is, after subsidence, to f be dried on a filter at 212° Fahr., and then || powdered. I Prop. A pearly white, inodorous powder, |! insoluble in water, but freely soluble in nitric bi acid; long exposure to a strong light turns it 1 grayish. When prepared from a ‘ neutral I solution,’it consists of very fine microscopic [crystalline laminae; but when prepared from ' ‘ acid solutions,’ with less water, the crystals are acicular, and more silky and lustrous. When moistened it exhibits an acid reaction ! with litmus paper. I Comp. This varies with the mode of its , preparation. That of the London pharma- copoeia consists of— {Air-dried.) {Driedat'2\9P.) I Teroxide of bismuth . 79‘ 81’65 i Nitric acid .... 17’85 18-35 Water 3‘15 0* I 100- 100- I That of the shops usually contains from 2 to , 4 atoms (= 6 to 12g) of water, and also often an excess of the teroxide. j Pur. “Nitric acid dissolves it without I effervescence. Dilute sulphuric acid being I added, nothing is thrown down.” (Ph. L. : 1851.) These tests shew the absence of chalk and white lead. “ It forms a colourless solu- jtion with nitric acid.” (Ph. E. 1841.) This [solution when precipitated with ammonia should also continue colourless.^ The presence . of hydrated oxide of bismuth is easily detected •* by the inferior brilliancy of the compound, ,and by its powder, viewed by a lens, appearing dull and amorphous; whereas the pure sub- r nitrate is silky and crystalline. '■ Tests. See Bismuth. ’’ Pois., Sfc. Like the other salts of bismuth, • lit causes vomiting, purging, giddiness, cramp, insensibility, &c. No certain antidote is known. The treatment may consist of an emetic, fol- lowed by the copious use of emollient drinks, as weak broth, barley-water, milk-and-water, &c.; and subsequently, when necessary to prevent inflammation, by a low diet and aperients. Uses, ^c. In medicine, as a sedative, an I astringent, or tonic, and an antispasmodic, in chronic affections of the stomach unaccom- panied by organic disease of that organ, and apparently of a nervous character; particu- larly in gastrodynia, troublesome sickness and vomiting, pyrosis or waterbrash, and generally in gastro-intestinal affections attended with fluxes; also in intermittent fever, spasmodic ^ Sec Bis.\1ctii, page 315 {ante). asthma, &c.—Dose. 5 to 10, or even 20 gr.2 According to Dr. Theophilus Thompson, in 5 gr. doses, combined with about 2 gr. of mag- nesia, it is a very effective remedy in the diarrhoea of phthisis.^ Externally, made into an ointment with 4 parts of lard, it has long been employed in certain chronic skin-diseases. Under the name of peael-white it is com- monly used by ladies as a cosmetic; but it is stated, that it injures the skin, producing, after a time, paralysis of its minute vessels, rendering it yellow and leather-like—an effect which, unfortunately, it is usually attempted to conceal by its freer and more frequent ap- phcation. In very large doses it is ‘poisonous* Concl. Remarks. Gieseler has ascertained by comparative experiments that the product is greater, if, according to Duflos, the solution of nitrate of bismuth be allowed to crystallise previously to the dilution with water, than if the dilution be executed at once. The pro- portion of the proceeds was as 5^ to 7, the quality of both preparations being alike. The most economical mode of procedure appears to be, to dissolve 1 part of the crystallised neutral nitrate in 2 to 3 parts of warm water, and to decompose the clear decanted or filtered ‘ so- lution’ with 20 to 22 parts of warm water, so as not to use more than about 24 parts of water altogether. Much water should not be used in washing the precipitate, nor should its exposure to it be unnecessarily prolonged; as a small portion of it is thereby redissolved, whilst the residuum is rendered more basic by lengthened washing. By proper attention to these points, 2i product of 45§ may be obtained from the crystallised nitrate.^ The ‘ liquor poured or filtered from the precipitate,’ to- gether with the first washings, may also be subsequently concentrated by evaporation, and re-decomposed by the addition of fresh hot water, so that the whole of the bismuth may be obtained as basic nitrate. Both the basic nitrate and the basic chloride of bismuth pass under the names of peael- white and PEAEL-POWDEE, owing to their extreme whiteness and beauty. That of the druggists, however, is usually the former; that of the perfumers, usually the latter, but not unfrequently both. 2. Terni'trate of Bismuth. Syn. Ni'teate OP B., Neu’tEAL N. OPB.; BiSMU'THUM TEE- ni'teas, &c., L. Prep. (Ph. Bor. 1847.) Puri- fied bismuth (in small fragments), 2 oz.; nitric acid, 6 oz.; dissolve with heat, adding more acid, if necessary, to effect entire solution of the metal; to the resulting solution add half its volume of distilled water, filter through powdered glass, and evaporate until crystals form. These contain 10 atoms of water. 2 Dr. Pereira seldom eomnienced with “ less than a scrupleand “ frequently administered half a drachm without the least inconvenience.” (“ Therup. ^ Mat. Med." 4th ed., i. 7G1. 3 Medico-chirurg. Trans ", 1848. ♦ Muspratt, '' Chemistry," v. i., p. 289.