110J= POLAKIZATIOX—POMEGRANATE. tins fiiil, but not otherwise, the stomach-puuip i should be had recourse to. The vomiting | should be kept up and the stomach well washed ; out with Hand albuminous or mucilaginous' liquids, such as milk-and-water, barley water, j sweetened water, tlour-and-water, or any si- I milar matters, as circumstances may aflbrd. After the vomiting a brisk aperient draught, or clyster, may be administered, and nervous irritability or exhaustion allayed by means of ether, opium, wine, or warm spirit-and-water, as the case may require. Even in a suspected case of poisoning, when proper medical advice is not at hand, an emetic should be immedi- ately taken or administered. A"omiting may be, in general, produced very promptly by merely swallowing a cupful of warm water mixed with a teaspoonful of If no dry mustard is at hand, a portion of the contents of a mustard-pot, put into the water, will answer nearly as well. As mustard may thus prove of so much use, it should never be wanting in any house; but even should there be no mustard at hand, warm water by itself, freely taken, forms a tolerably efficacious emetic. POLARIZA'TIOK (of Light). A change pro- duced upon light by the action of certain media and surfaces, by which it ceases to pre- sent the ordinai’y phenomena of reflection and transmission. Instruments or apparatus em- ployed to effect this change are called ‘ po- LAEISCOPES.’ Although the polarization of light is frequently employed as a means of ; chemical investigation, and is of the utmost i interest to the philosophical inquirer, its con- ' sideration scarcely comes within the province of this work. I POLTSH. Various substances, diftering widely from each other, are popularly known under this name. See Powdees, Vae^ish, &c., and below. Ihench Polish. See page 666. French Polish Reviver. Prep, 1. Linseed j oil, i pint; pale lac varnish and wood naphtha, , ofl^each, i pint; well shaken together, and again every time before use. 2. -Methylated rectified spirit, 3 pints; lin- seed oil and French polish , of each, 1 / as the last. I 3. Linseed oil (pale), 1 quart; strong dis- | tilled vinegar, \ pint; spirit of turpentine, 5 pint; muriatic acid, 1 oz. ' Furniture Cream. Prep. 1. Pearlash, 2 oz.; I soft soap, 4 oz.; bees' tvax, 1 lb.; water, ' 1 gall.; boil until the whole is united and | forms a creamy liquid, when cold. ; 2. Bees' wax, ^ lb.; good yellow soap, \ lb. ; \ water, 5 pints; boil to a proper consistence ! with constant agitation, then add of boiled oil and spirit of turpentine, of each, ^ pint. For use, the above are diluted with water, spread , upon the surface with a painter’s brush, and , then polished off with a hard brush, cloth, or j leather. I 3. Boiled oil (pale), ^ pint; bees' wax, j oz. ; mixed by heat. Applied by a ‘ rub' ber,’ and at once polished ofl‘. Furniture Oil. See q^age 968. Furniture Paste. Prep. 1. Oil of turpen tine, 1 pint; alkanet root, \ oz.; digest unti sufficiently coloured, then add of bees' wa. (scraped small), 4 oz. ; put the vessel into ho w'ater, and stir until the mixture is complete then put it into pots. If wanted pale, tb> alkanet root should be omitted. 2. {White.') White wax, 1 lb. ; liquor q potassa, 4 gallon; boil to a proper consist ence. Harness Polish. See page 328. Leather Polish. See Blacking. POL'LARD. See Floue. POL'YCEREST. Syn. Poltcheestus, L A term formerly applied to several mediciue on account of the numerous virtues they wer: supposed to possess. Sal poltceestes is tlr old name for sulphate of potassa. POL'YCHROITE. The name formerly givei to the colouring matter of saffron, from tli variety of colours which it exhibits with dif ferent reagents. Its alcoholic and aqueou solutions are of a golden yellow; nitric acii turns it green ; sulphuric acid, first blue, au( then lilac. POLYCHRO'MIC ACID. A peculiar sub stance obtained by acting on aloes with nitri acid. Prep. Take of powdered aloes, 1 part; nitri acid (sp. gr. 1'25), 8 parts; mix, and, when tb action is over, evaporate to a syrup, and ad( cold water to throw down the ‘ polychromi acid’; purify it by washing it with water unti the liquid passes off of a blue colour. Prop., ^c. A yellowish-brown powdei forming a purple solution; it explodes wbe) heated. When used as a dye-stuff, it yields variety of colours. Appears to be a inixtur of several acids. See Algetic Acid (c‘ Schunk). POM'ACE. See Cidee. POMA'TUM. Syn. PoMiiADE, Fr. Tbi term was originally applied to a fragrant oint ment prepared with lard and apples; but i now wholly restricted, in this country, t solid greasy substances used in dressing tb hair. The pomatums of French pharmac (POMMADES, GeAISSES ilEDICAMENTEUSES- P. Cod.; Lipaeoles—Guibourt; LiPAEOLt and Lipaeoides—Beral; Steaeoles—Clu reau) are soft ointments, having a basis of lar or fat, without resinous matter. See OiNi MENT and POMMADE. POMEGRAH'ATE. The Punica Granatw (Linn.), a small tree indigenous in Persia an the East. Fruit (pomegeanate ; geanat.. MALA punica) is cooliiig and astringent fruit-rind (pomegeanate peel; malacc EIUM, COETEX GEANATI; GbANATUM—PI L.) and root-bark (Geanati eadix—Ph. I E. & D.) are powerfully astringent, detersiv and anthelmintic; the last more particular! so. The double flowers of the wild tree (b