DELPHINIC ACID—DENTIFEICES. 514 7nilcl aperients may also be given, and a light, nutritions diet adopted throughout. Deple- tion, especially bleeding, should he particularly avoided. Alcoholic stimulants and wine, in certain cases, have proved useful. Under this treatment, the patient, unless of a very had habit of body, or much debilitated by previous excesses, usually recovers. He is, however, very liable to relapses and subsequent attacks, which are best prevented by judicious moral management. DELPHIN'IC ACID. Syn. Phoce'nic acid. A fatty acid, obtained by saponifying the oil of the delphinus or porpoise. According to recent experiments, it is nothing but yaleeic ACID. DELPHININE. Syn. Del'phike, Del'phia, Delphin'ia. An alkaloid discovered by Las- saigne and Feneulle in Delphinium staphysagria or Stavesacre. Prep. 1. The husked seeds (in powder) are boiled in a little water, and pressed in a cloth; a little pure magnesia is then added to the filtered decoction, the whole is boiled for a few minutes, and refiltered; the residuum, after being well washed, is digested in boiling alcohol, which dissolves out the alkaloid, and gives it up again by gentle evaporation and cooling. 2. The bruised, hut unshelled, seeds are di- gested in dilute sidphuric acid, the filtered liquor precipitated with carbonate of potassa, and the precipitate digested in alcohol as before. 3. (Parrish.) An alcoholic extract of the seeds is treated with dilute sulphuric acid, pre- cipitated with an alkali, again dissolved in dilute sulphuric acid; the colouring matter precipitated by a few drops of nitric acid, the alkaloid by potassa. The alkaloid is then dissolved in absolute alcohol, and the solution thus formed is evaporated; one j)ound yields about one drachm. Prop., 8fc. A light-yellowish or white, odourless powder; extremely acrid and bitter; scarcely soluble in water; dissolves in ether, and readily in alcohol; and has an alkaline reaction. Its alcoholic solution produces a burning and tingling sensation when rubbed on the skin, and a similar sensation is pro- duced in various parts of the body when it is taken in doses of a few grains. It has been exhibited in neuralgia and rheumatism by Dr. Turnbull. Dose. gr., every three hours, made into a pill with 1 gr., each, of the extracts of henbane and liquorice. It is also used externally under the form of oint- ment and lotion. DEMUL'CENTS. In medicine, substances which are calculated to soften and lubricate the parts to which they are applied. Though having the same signification as the word ‘emollients,^ it is desirable to restrict the latter term to such as are intended for exter- nal application, and to include under the above head only such as are intended for internal exhibition. The principal demul- ^ cents are yum arabic, gum tragacanth, liquor- ' ice, honey, arroiv-root, pearl barley, isinglass, ' gelatine, milk, almonds, spermaceti, almond and olive oils, and most other mucilaginous, amy- j laceous, saccharine, and oily substances. For | use, these are made into mucilages, decoc- « TiONS, EMULSIONS, or MILKS, with Water, and g form suitable beverages in dysentery, diarrhoea, < catarrh, diseases of the urinary organs, and all » other diseases where diluents are useful. See ; Emollients. DENSTTY. Comparative mass, or the quan- n tity of matter contained in a given space. It is commonly used synonymously with ‘SEE- ; ciFic GEAVITY,’ which, liowever, refers to comparative weight. Thus, quicksilver is said to have a density greater than that of copper, i and alcohol one less than that of oil of j vitriol. DENTI'ERICES. Syn. Dentieeicia, L. Substances applied to the teeth, to cleanse and beautify them. The most usual form of den- tifrices is that of powder (tooth powdee); but liquids (tooth washes)/ and electuaries i (tooth electuaeies, tooth pastes), are also employed. The solid ingredients used in dentifrices should not be so hard or gritty as to injure the enamel of the teeth; nor so soft or adhesive as to adhere to the gums, after rinsing the mouth out with water. Pumice- stone (in fine powder) is one of those sub- stances that acts entirely by mechanical attri- tion, and is hence an objectionable ingredient in tooth powder intended for daily use. It is, however, very generally present in the various advertised dentifrices, which are remarkable for their rapid action in whitening the teeth. Bath brick is another substance of a similar nature to pumice, and like that article, should ’> be only occasionally employed. Cuttle-fish j bone, coral, and prepared chalk, are also com- monly used for the same purpose, but the last is rather too soft and absorbent to form the sole ingredient of a tooth powder. Charcoal, which is so very generally employed as a den- j tifrice, acts partly mechanically, and partly by its chemical property of destroying foul smells and arresting putrefaction. For this purpose it should be newly burnt, and kept in well-closed vessels until used, as by exposure to the air it rapidly loses its antiseptic powers. Powdered rhatany, cinchona bark, and catechu, are used as ‘astringents/ and are very useful in foulness or sponginess of the gums. Myrrh and mastic are employed on account of their odour, and their presumed preservative action, and power of fixing loose teeth. Insoluble powders have been objected to on account of their being apt to accumulate between the folds of the gums and in the cracks of the teeth, and thus impart a disagreeable appear- ance to the mouth. To remedy this defect, a reddish or fiesh-coloured tinge is commonly given to them with a little rose pink, red coral, or similar colouring substance, when any