405 CATECHU—CATHARTINE. CAT'SCHU. Syn. Cas"hew, Cutch, Gam'- 1 BIR; Cat'echu (Ph. L. E. & 1).), Ter'ea Ja- pon'iCA, L.; Cachotj, Er. “ The extract from the wood of Acacia Catechu, or from the leaf of Uncaria Gamhir” (Ph. L.) Also of the “ kernels of areca catechu ; probably, too, from [ other plants.” (Ph. E.) The term is now | applied to several extracts similar in appearance and properties to that of Acacia Catechu. There are several varieties of catechu known in commerce, of which the principal are— Bombay Catechu. Eirm, brittle, dark brown, of a uniform texture, and a glossy, semi- resinous, and uneven fracture. Sp. gr. 1'39. Richness in tannin, 52g. Bengal Catechu. Rusty brown colour ex- ternally; porous, and more friable than the preceding. Sp. gr. 1‘28. Richness in tannin, 49-5!|. Malabar Catechu. Resembles the last in appearance, but is more brittle and gritty. ; 8p. gr. 1’40. Richness in tannin, 45'5g. Of the above varieties the first is the one generally emjjloyed in medicine, and which | commonly passes by the name of catechu, j The second popularly passes imder the name | of terra Japonica (Japan earth), from the old belief that it was of mineral origin. Pur. It is “ almost entirely dissolved by boiling water. The cold solution does not give a blue colour with iodide of potassium and dilute nitric acid added together.” “ If ether be added to 100 gr. of either variety, 40 gr. of the dried ethereal extract should be soluble in cold water.” (Ph. L.) Estim. It is often of importance to the tanner and dyer to determine the richness of this article in tannic acid or tannin. The following are two simple methods:— 1. Exhaust a weighed sample (in powder) ! with ether, and evaporate by the heat of a hot I water bath. The product, which is the tannin, must then be accui*ately weighed. ' 2. Dissolve the sample (in powder) in hot water, let it cool out of contact with the air, inter, and add a solution of gelatine, as long as a precipitate falls. The jmecipitate, after being washed and dried at a steam heat, contains 40° of tannin. Uses, S^c. Catechu is extensively employed in medicine, both internally and externally, as an astringent. It is used to flavour British brandy, and by the tanners as a substitute for oak bark. With it the dyer produces, inex- l)ensively, many of his most pleasing browns. Alum mordants are mostly employed in dyeing with catechu. “ The salts of copper with sal j ammoniac cause it to give a bronze colour, . which is very fast; i\\Q 2^foto~muriate of tin, a BROWNISH YELLOW; the per-chloride of tin, with the addition of nitrate of copper, a deep- bronze HUE; acetate of alumina, alone, a REDDISH BROWN, and with nitrate of copper, a REDDISH-OLIVE GRAY; nitrate of iron, a DARK-BROWN GRAY. Eor dyeing a golden i COEEEE-BROWN, it has entirely superseded I madder; 1 lb. of it being equivalent to 6 ll. of this root.” (Ure.) Dose. 10 gr. to 30 gr. in solution, in water, or made into a bolus, or sucked as a lozenge. CAT'GUT. The prepared and twisted intes- tines of animals. Prep. The guts, taken whilst warm from the animal, are thoroughly cleaned, freed from adherent fat, and well rinsed in pure water. They are next soaked for about 2 davs in water, after which they are laid on a table and scraped with a copper- plate, having a semicircular notch, beginning the operation at the smaller end. In this way the mucous and peritoneal membranes are removed. The guts are then put into fresh water, and soaked until the next day, when they are again scraped, the larger ends cut off, and after well washing, again steeped for a night in fresh water, and then for 2 or 3 hours in a weak lye of pearlash or potash (2 oz. to the gall.). They are lastly washed in clean water, and passed through a polished hole in a piece of brass to smooth and equalise their surface; after which they are twdsted, and sorted, ac(!ording to the purposes for which they are intended. Eor many purposes the prepared gut is dyed or sulphured, and rubbed with olive oil. It improves by age. Red or black ink, or any of the simple dyes or stains, are used to colour it. Uses, l^c. Catgut is employed in several of the arts. The strings of harps, violins, &c., are formed of this material. Whipcord is made from catgut, which is sewed together while soft with the filandre or scrapings, after Avhich it is put into a frame and twisted. Bowstrings for hatmakers are made out of the largest intestines, 4 to 12 of which are twisted together, until the cord is extended to 15 to 25 feet in length. It is then rubbed perfectly smooth and free from knots, half dried, sul- phured twice, again stretched and sulphured, and lastly, dried in a state of tension. Clock- makers’ cords are made of the smallest intes- tines, in a similar manner. The best fine catgut is made at Venice or Rome, from the intestines of thin, sinewy sheep. That made in England is formed from the fat sheep killed for the shambles, and is, hence, inferior. Coarse catgut, for turning lathes, &c., is made from the intestines of horses, cut into 4 or 5 strips, by forcing a ball furnished with projecting knives placed cross- wise along them. These strips a^’e next twisted, dried, and rubbed smooth with fish skin. Guita j)erch.a and vulcanized India rubber are now applied to many of the pur- poses formerly exclusively occupied by cat- gut. CATHAS'TICS. See Purgatives. CATHAR'TINE. The purgative principle of senna, first noticed by Lassaigne and Eenuelle. A strong aqueous infusion of senna leaves is evaporated to the consistence of a syrup, out of contact with the air; this fluid extract is then digested in alcohol or rectified spirit, and