REGULUS—REMITTENT FEVER. 1168 Ingredients. Tlierniometcr sinks. 5" Snow i Ciystallized elilovide of calcium rSal ammoniac ^ Nitrate of potassa OVater C Nitrate of ammonia . i Water. . . . ^Nitrate of ammonia . •< Cai’bonate of soda C Water ^ Phosphate of soda -< Nitrate of ammonia . Clhluted nitrous acid ^ f Sulphate of soda i Ilydrocliloric acid f Snow i Diluted nitrous acid ^ fSnow . . . ... ■< Sulphuric acid . (.Water .... eSnow X Crystallized chloride of calcium fSnow t Crystallized chloride of calcium r Snow . . < Sulphuric acid . (.Water 2 parts I'rom + 33° to — 50° Prom + 50° to + 10° Prom + 50’ to + 4’ Prom + 50° to + 7’ Prom + 50° to — 31° Prom + 30° to 0’ Prom 0° to — 46° Prom — 20° to — 60° From 0° to — 6G° Prom —40° to —73’ From —68° to —91° De^. of cold prodiired. S3’ 40° 46’ 50° 46° 40° 66° 83° 23° 1 Fiming ‘nitrons acid,’ 2 parts; tcater, 1 part; hy weight. Obs. The materials in the first column are to be cooled, previously to mixing, to the tei, perature required in the second, by the use of other mixtures. REG'ULUS. A term applied by the alche- mists to various metallic matters obtained by fusion; as regulus oe antiwont, arsenic, &c. It is now obsolete. RELISHES. See Sauces. REMIT'TENT. A term applied to fevers, and other diseases, which exhibit a decided remission in violence during the twenty-four hours, but without entirely leaving the patient, in which they differ from intermittents or agues. REMITTENT FE'VER. Si/n. Febris re- mittens, L. The diseases wdiich come under this name vary in degree from extreme mild- ness to alarming violence, and are regarded as both inflammatory and malignant. The milder form of remittent fever commences with drowsiness, languor, chilliness, and other febrile symptoms; the skin is hot and dry, the thirst considerable, and there is, generally, nausea, and total loss of appetite. In the course of the day, usually towards evening, the pulse quickens, the heat and constitutional disturb- ance increase, and, at length, terminate in a sweat, which after a time goes off, leaving the skin hot and dry, and the x^ulse still quicker than before. These symptoms, if not arrested, are repeated with increased severity daily, until “ the head, but more fre- quently the liver, or some other abdominal viscus, gives proof of being loaded and oj)- pressed, and the restlessness becomes intolera- ble ; or, a sudden bilious purging or vomiting supervenes, and carries off the complaint by a salutary crisis.” In the severer forms of re- mittent fever the febrile symptoms are much exaggerated, there is a putrid tendency in the 1 fluids, the sweat becomes fetid, the brea I offensive, the tongue fetid, livid, or greenis black, and the dejections blackish, highly i 1 fensive, and parted with insensibly; the mi i also wanders, and there are spasmodic twite ings and petechial spots. I The remittent fever of infancy (infanti ; fever), perhaps the mildest form of this dj ease, is occasioned by worms or a disordei ! state of the bowels; but remittent fevi I in general are referred to the action of mai I miasmata and unwholesome air. The REM ; tents of autumn, in this country, oft ' assume a character of extreme severity. I I malignant fevers of hot climates, of t kind, are commonly known as bilious EE.m I TENT FEVER, from the great disorder of ' j hepatic system. Among these, the Afbic. I West Indian, and yellow fever, are ! most fatal. The treatment of the milder forms of ren tent fever consists in the administration mercurial and saline purgatives, assisted saline diaphoretics, and a spoon-farinace • diet. As the imlse becomes less frequent, ■ diaphoresis is established, mild tonics, such* bark and the vegetable bitters, in combinat i with the dilute mineral acids, should be had • course to. This treatment, with good air .1 careful ventilation, generally effects a cure ir 1 days or a fortnight. In the bilious remitte > last above alluded to, “particular synipfl^ frequently present themselves, which reqv^ particular modes of treatment; and this n it also be modified according to the inflanimato malignant, nervous, or intermittent form wl »