934 NANKEEN—NARCEINE. powder,' luay be used along with water and a piece of soft leather or flannel for the same pur- pose. The frequent employment of these sub- stances is, however, injurious to the healthy growth of the uail. NANKEEN'. The coloured cotton cloth which bears this name was originally brought from Nankin, the ancient capital of China, and was prepared from a native cotton, of a brownish-yellow hue. It is now successfully imitated in England, and at the present time the English manufacturers supply the Canton market. In this country the colour is gener- ally given to the cloth by successive baths of sulphate of iron and crude carbonate of soda or lime water, NANKEEN DYE. The liquid sold under this name in the shops is a solution of annotta.^ It is employed to dye white calicoes of a nankeen colom*; but chiefly to restore the colour of faded nankeen clothing. NAPHTHA. Syn. Mineeal naphtha; Naphtha, L. A name given to the limpid and purer varieties of peteolehm, or eock OIL, which exudes from the surface of the earth in various parts of the world. Prop. Naphtha possesses a penetrating odour and a yellow colour, but may be ren- dered colourless by distillation; it usually begins to boil at a temperature of about 180° Eahr.; but, being a mixture of several different ‘ hydrocarbons,’ it has no fixed boilmg-point; it is very inflammable; it does not mix with water, but imparts to that fluid its peculiar taste and smell; mixes with alcohol and oils, and dissolves sulphur, phosphorus, camphor, iodine, most of the resins, wax, fats, and sper- maceti; and forms with caoutchouc a gela- tinous varnish, which dries with very great difficulty. Pur. Mineral naphtha is very frequently adulterated with oil of turpentine, a fraud which may be detected by—1. The addition of some oil of vitriol, which will, in that case, thicken and darken it.—2. Hydrochloric-acid gas passed through the liquid for an hour will occasion the formation of hydrochlorate of camphine, either at once or after a few hours’ repose, even if only 5§ of oil of turpentine is present. (Dr. Bolley.)—3. If a few grains of iodide of potassium and a little water are rubbed with the suspected sample, the colour of the w^ater should continue unchanged; the presence of g^gth part of oil of turpentine will cause it to assume a red or orange colour. (Saladin.) Uses. Naphtha is chiefly employed for the purposes of illumination, as a solvent for India rubber, and in the preparation of a very superior black pigment. It has been highly spoken of as a remedy for cholera, by Dr. Andreosky, a Russian physician. See Peteolehm, and below. Coal-tar Naphtha. Syn. Naphtha, Coal IT, A mixture of volatile ‘ hydrocarbons,’ J 17c. obtained by distilling coal-tar. It is one of the first products which comes over, and flows from the still as cehde coal naphtha. To obtain eectieied coal naphtha, this crude liquid is distilled, and the product agitated with 10§ of concentrated sulphuric acid ; when cold, the mixture is treated with 5g of per- oxide of manganese, and the upper portion is submitted to further distillation. The specific gravity of this purified product is *850. It is extensively used as a solvent of caoutchouc, and other allied substances, also of resins for the preparation of varnishes. By repeated purification and fractional distillation, ben- zole, the chief and most important con- stituent of coal naphtha, is obtained. See Benzole. Wood Naphtha. See Pteoxylic Spteit. NAPHTHALIN. A white, crystallizable, odorous, volatile substance, obtained from coal-tar. Prep. The last portion of the volatile oily product is collected separately, and allowed to repose, when crude naphthalin separates. By pushing the distillation until the residuum in the still begins to char, a further portion of dark-coloured naphthalin may be obtained in the solid state. It is purified by resubli- mation a second, or even a third time. Prop., ^c. Soluble in alcohol and ether; slightly soluble in boiling water; melts at 176° Fahr.; boils at 413°; highly inflammable, burning with a red and smoky flame; with sulphuric acid, it unites to form sulpho- NAPHTHALIC ACID. By the action of nitric acid upon naphthalin, numerous substances may be formed, the most interesting being NiTEONAPTHALiN. Naphthalin has lately been extensively employed as a stimulating expec- torant. Dose. 5 to 20 gr.; or, preferably, ^ gr., frequently. Externally, made into an ointment, in dry tetters, psoriasis, &c. NAPHTHYL'AMINE. Syn. Naphthal- IDINE. A substance obtained by Zinin, by the action of sulphide of ammonium upon an alcoholic solution of nitronaphthalin. It forms colourless, silky needles; is neutral; fusible; volatile without decomposition; soluble in alcohol and ether, but scarcely so in water; has a powerful odour, a hot taste, and forms crystallizable compounds with the acids. NATLES YEL'LOW. See Yellow Pio- MENTS. NAR'CEINE. Syn. Naeceina, Naeceia. A peculiar substance discovered by Pelletier in opium. It is obtained from the aqueous solution of opium, after it has been freed from morphine and narcotine by ammonia, by adding to it hydrate of lime, or, preferably, baryta. On boiling the filtered solution to expel the ammonia, and evaporating the liquid, crystals of narceine are gradually deposited. It may be purified by solution in hot alcohol and re- crystallization. Prop., H^c. White, silky, acicular prisms; neutral; inodorous; bitter; pungent; soluble