OPODELDOC—ORAXGE. 1013 rphyroxine, pseudo-morphine, resin, saline liter, sulphuric acid, thehaine or paramor- \ine, &c. It is doubtful, however, whether me of these substances are not generated j3m other principles existing in opium, during |e processes adopted to obtain them. By Intact with oxidizing agents, narcotine yields \tamine, hemipinic acid, opiammon, opianic I id, &c., which are noticed in their alphabe- [sal places. .According to Mulder, 100 parts of ordinary nyrna opium contain— Morphine . 10-842 Codeine •678 Narcotinc . 6-808 Narceine . 6-662 Meconine . •804 Meconic acid 5-154 Resin . 3-582 Gummy matter 26-242 Mucus 19-086 Fatty matter 2-166 Caoutchouc 6-012 Water 9-846 Matter undetermined loss and 2-118 100- The sp. gr. of Smyena opium is 1-336. The following preparations,once famous, re now nearly obsolete in this country. Those lat are made with cold water, or by fermenta- on, are supposed to be milder than crude pium, and in this respect to be similar to BLACK DEOP.’ Homberg’s Opium. Opium exhausted by iepeated coction in 10 or 12 times its weight f water, and the mixed liquors evaporated to ne third, and kept boiling for 2 or 3 days, dding water from time to time, then strain- ng and evaporating' to a pilular consistence. Iaume’s pueified opium is similar. Launcelotte’s Opium. Opium, 1 lb.; quince uice, 1 gall.; pure potassa, 1 oz.; sugar, 4 oz.; erment for some time, evaporate to a syrup, ligest in rectified spirit, filter, and evaporate he tincture. Let'tuce Opium. Lactucarium. Neumann’s Opium. Infusion of opium, trained, mixed with a little sugar, and fer- nented for some months in a warm place; md, lastly, strained and evaporated to an xtract, or preserved in the liquid form. Powell’s Opium. Opium, exhausted by coc- don with water, the residuum treated with pirit of wine, and the mixed tincture and de- coction evaporated to an extract. Pu"rified Opium. Syn. Opium pueifica- TUM, L. The purified opium of old phar- macy is now represented by the aqueous ex- tract of the Pharmacopoeias. (See page 622.) Formei-ly, picked opium, beaten to a pilular consistence, with the addition of a little water or proof spirit, was called *soft pueified opium’ (opium pueificatum molle); and picked opium dried in a water bath until brittle enough for pow dering, was called ‘ haed PUEIFIED opium’ (o. P. DUEUM). COENETTE’ and Josse’s pueified opium are similar to the extract of the Ph. L. Quercetan’s Opium. Vinegar of opium eva- porated to an extract. Strained Opium. Syn. Exteactum the- BAicuM, Opium colatum. Opium pueifica- tum, L. Opium dissolved or softened in an equal weight of water, passed through can- vas, and evaporated to the consistence of an extract. It is now superseded by the aqueous extract. Tor'refied Opium. Syn. Roasted opium; Opium toeeefactum, L. Opium, dried, cut into thin slices, and roasted on an iron plate, at a low heat, as long as it emits vapours, care being taken not to burn it. OPODEL'DOC. 1. See Liniment of Soap. 2. (Stebe’s opodeldoc.) This, which differs from common opodeldoc chiefly in containing more soap, is prepared as follows :— a. White Castile soap (cut very small), 2 lb. ; camphor, 5 oz.; oil of rosemary, 1 oz. ; oil of origanum, 2 oz.; rectified spirit, 1 gall.; mix, and digest in a strong bottle (closely corked), by the heat of a water bath, until solution is complete; when the liquid has con- siderably cooled, add of liquor of ammonia, 11 oz., and immediately iii^o wide- mouthed bottles (Steer’s), cork them close, and tie them over with bladder. Very fine, solid and transparent when cold. b. Soap, 4 oz.; camphor, 1 oz. ; oil of rose- mary and origanum, of each, 1 dr.; rectified spirit, 1 pint; liquor of ammonia, j^. oz.; mix. c. (Phil. Col. of Pharm.) White soap, 28 oz.; camphor, 8 oz.; rectified spirit, 6^ pints; dissolve, suffer the impurities to sub- side, add of liquor of ammonia, 4 fl. oz.; oils of rosemary and horsemint, of each, 1 fi. oz.; and pour it into phials, as before. OR'ANGE. Syn. Aueantium, L. The common sweet oeange is the fruit of Citrus Aurantium. The Seville or bittee oeangk is produced by Citrus vulgaris or Bigaradia. Oranges are probably about the most whole- some and useful of all the subacid fruits. Their differs from that of lemons chiefly in containing less citric acid and more sugar. In their general properties the two are nearly similar. Factitious oeange juice is made by dis- solving citric acid, 1 oz., and carbonate of po- tassa, 1 dr., in water, 1 quart, and digesting the solution on the peel of half an orange, until sufficiently flavoured; Narbonne honey or white sugar is then added to impart the neces- sary sweetness. Instead of orange peel, 5 or 6 drops of oil of orange peel, with ^ ft. oz. of tincture of orange peel, may be used. Oeange peel (coetex aueantii) is an agreeable, stomachic, bitter tonic, especially useful as an adjunct to more active medicines. That ordered to be used in medicine is the ex-