1018 OSTEOCOLLA—OXALIC ACID. CHLOEINE are—Peotochloeide oe osmium, a dark green, imperfectly crystalline substance, formed by gently heating osmium in chlorine gas. It is soluble, but a large quantity of water decomposes it.—Sesqttichloeide of OSMIUM, formed when the sesquioxide is dis- solved in hydrochloric acid.—It has not been obtained in the solid state.—Bichloeide of OSMIUM is obtained in combination with ‘ chlo- ride of potassium" (bichloeide of osmium AND potassium), ill the form of red octahe- dral crystals, by strongly heating a mixture of chloride of potassium and metallic osmium in chlorine gas. Osmium combines with phosphoeus and SULPHUE, but the compounds possess little interest. OSTEOCOL'LA. A rough sort of glue or gelatine obtained from bones by digestion in dilute hydrochloric acid, to remove their earthy matter, and afterwards acting on the residuum with water at a high temperature, until it is wholly dissolved. OTAL'GIA. Pain in the ear. See Eae- ACHE. O'THYL. In chemistry, a radicle having the formula C4II3O2, assumed by Professor Wil- liamson to exist in acetic acid, which thus becomes the hydeated oxide of othtl, or HO, (C4H3O2) O. OT'TO OF EOSES. See Oils (Volatile). OVALBU'MEN. White of egg; to distin- guish it from SEEALBUMEN, or the albumen of the serum of the blood. OV'ENS. A very ingenious and useful im- provement in the apparatus for baking was introduced some years ago by Mr. Sclater, of Carlisle. It consists in causing the articles to be baked to traverse a heated earthenware tube. This tube forms the oven. It is of con- siderable length, and the biscuits or other articles are slowly traversed through it, from end to end, at such a rate as will allow of the baking being completed during the passage. The biscuits are carried on trays, set on tra- velling chains; or the trays are made into an endless web or chain. The oven is thus en- tirely self-acting, and the articles demand no attention whatever from the attendants, whilst the system combines superior economy with the best results. A ‘pyrometer,* or heat indi- cator, is attached externally, so that the attendant can regulate the heat with great facility. The object of these improvements is to reduce the cost of baking, and to improve the appearance of the baked articles. The apparatus is applicable as well to the baking of articles of clay or earthenware as to bread or biscuits. Of the ovens now in common use by the bakers, that known as the ‘ hot-watee oven’ is perhaps the best; not merely in reference to economy, but also with reference to its supe- rior cleanliness, and the ease with which the articles operated on may be turned out of that delicate yellowish-brown tint for which the bread of the Viennese and Parisian bakers is so celebrated. See Baking, Beead, &c. OX. The Bos Taurus (Linn.), one of the ruminantia. In its more limited sense, the word is restricted to the emasculated animal. The flesh, milk, skin, horns, bones, and blood of this animal are all serviceable to man. Gold^ beater's skin is prepared from the peritoneal membrane of its caecum. Its blood, fat, horns, and excrement were among the simples of the Ph. L. 1618. See Beef, Gall, Milk, and below. Ox-Gall. Syn. Ox-bile ; Pel bovinum, F. BOVIS, F. TAUEI, L. Crude ox-gall is noticed at page 677. Reflned ox-gall (fel BOVINUM pueificatum) is prepared as under:— 1. Fresh ox-gall is allowed to repose for 12 or 15 hours, after which the clear portion is decanted, and evaporated to the consistence of a thick syrup by the heat of a water bath; it is then spread thinly on a dish, and exposed in a warm situation near the fire, or to a current of dry air, until nearly dry; it is, lastly, put into wide-mouthed bottles or pots, and care- fully tied over with bladder. In this state it will keep for years in a cool situation. For use, a little is dissolved in water. 2. Fresh gall, 1 pint; boil, skim, add pow- dered alum, 1 oz.; boil again, until the alum is dissolved, and when sufficiently cool, pour it into a bottle, and loosely cork it down. In a similar manner boil and skim another pint of gall, add to it 1 oz. of common salt, and again boil, cool, and bottle it, as above. In three months decant the ‘clear’ from both bottles, and mix them in equal quantities; the clear, portion must then be separated from the' coagulum by subsidence or filtration. ' Uses, 8fc. Both the above are employed by artists to fix chalk and pencil drawings before tinting them, and to remove the greasiness from ivory, tracing paper, &c. The first is also used in medicine. OX'ALATE. Syn. Oxalas, L. A salt of oxalic acid. The soluble oxalates are easily formed by directly neutralizing a so- lution of oxalic acid with the hydrate, car- bonate, or oxide of the base; and the in- SOLUBLE OXALATES, by double decomposi- ^ tion. See Oxalic Acid and the respective hdS€S* OXALHY'DEIC acid. See Sacchaeic Acid. OXALIC ACID. Syn. Acidum oxalicum, L. This substance was discovered by Bergman, in 1776. It occurs both in the mineral and organic kingdoms, and is produced artificially by tbe action of nitric acid on sugar, starch, woody fibre, &c. It abounds in wood-sorrel, in which it exists in combination with a little potassa. With the exception of gum and sugar of milk, all starchy and saccharine substances yield oxalic acid when treated with nitric acid at a somewhat elevated temperature. Prep. 1. From sugae :—