ARTHRITIS—ASARABACCA. 231 1 Authritiqtje, Fr.; Arthritisch, Ger. In '\^)atholagy, relating to or aft'ecting the joints; j^outy. Hence, remedies or agents used for [;he gout are often called arthrit'ics {arthriV- ica, L.). I ARTHUrTIS [L.; prim., Gr.] In paf/to- i!ogy, inflammation of a joint; gout (which ifee). ' ARTHRODYN'IA (-dm'-y'a). [L.] Chronic rheumatism (which see). I ARTHRODYNTC (-din'.). In pathology, jan epithet of rheumatic and other painful afiections of the joints. ARTICHOKE. Syn. Cin'ara, Cyn'ara, jScOL'YMUS, L.; Artichatjt, Fr.; Arti- IscnocKE, Ger. The cyn'ara scol’ymus (Linn.), ja thistle-like perennial plant of the nat. ord., iCompositse (DC.). Hab. Southern Europe; but now extensively cultivated in our gardens, for its ‘ bottom,’ or the sweet fleshy receptacle of its flowers, which is eaten as a potherb. These are cooked by brisk boiling in water, stalk-ends uppermost, until tender; and take 1 to 1 hour, according to their age. Sometimes they are preserved in brine (pickled artichokes) ; and also after depriving them of the ‘ choke ’ and j*spiny hairs’ and blanching them by immer- ision in boiling water, by drying in the sun (dried artichokes ; CELS d’artichaet, Fr.), by which they retain their flavour for some Itime. Infusion of the flowers, used with rennet, j As an esculenl the artichoke resembles aspa- fragus in its general properties; but it is said j to be more nutritious, and even more diuretic. Jeru'salem Artichoke. The helian'thus tu- \bero'sus (Linn.), a perennial plant of the sun- I flower family, and quite distinct from the pre- ceding. Hab. The Brazils. It is cultivated in England for culinary purposes. Roots (tu- bers), resemble the artichoke in flavour; but are considered far from wholesome, being apt I to produce flatulence and dyspepsia. They are [diuretic, and impart the odour of turpentine I to the urine. They are cooked by boiling (15 to 25 minutes, according to size), or frying; in the former case, served with melted butter. They are also served ‘mashed,’ like turnips. The flowers yield a volatile oil resembling that of turpentine. ARTICULA'TA. [L. pi.] Syn. Artic'e- LATES (-lates), ArTIC'ELATED ANIMALS, Eng. In zoology, the third grand division of the animal kingdom according to the arrangement of Cuvier. It embraces all those animals which have no internal skeleton, but in lieu I thereof a jointed structure consisting of arti- I culated rings which encircle the body, and frequently the limbs, and furnish to the powers of motion all the necessary points of support. It is divided into/oMr classes :—1. Annelida, worms with red blood:—2. Crestacea, C7'ay- fish, lobsters, crabs, &c.;—3. Arachnid A, spiders, scorpions, mites, &c.:—4. Insects (proper), or that numerous class of small ani- mals characterised by the presence of antenna, and breathing organs composed of 7'amifled trachea, with or without air-sacs. (See these heads.) ARTIC'ULATED. Syn. Artic'elate ; Ar- ticela'tes, L. ; Articele, Fr.; Gegliedert, Ger. Jointed. In natural history, an epithet of objects formed of distinct parts, united as if they grew out of one another, and com- monly acting together. ART'ISANS (Diseases of), [-e-zanz.] See Disease, Hygiene, Trades (Unhealthy), &c. ASARABAC'CA (as-a-). Syn. As'arem, A. Eerop^'em (Linn.), Nar'des monta'na*, &e., L.; Asaret, a. d’Eerope, Cabaret, Azarem c., Nard saevage, Oreille d’homme, &c., Fr.; HazelwErtzel, Ger. The daapov of Dioscorides, a small, round, hard, stem- less, hardy herbaceous plant, bearing cho- colate-coloured flowers; and of the nat. ord., Aristolochiese (DC.). It grows freely in central France, and is found in woods and shady places in Lancashire, Westmoreland, and other parts of England. Hab. Europe, between 37° and 60° latitude.—Root & rhizome (as'ari ra'dix), has a pepper-like odour and an acrid taste:—Leaves (a. Fo'LiA),less odorous, though bitter-tasted, acrid, and aromatic; for- merly officinal in the pharmacopoeias :—Whole plant (ASARABACCA, of the shops), nauseant, emetic, and purgative. Before the introduction of‘ipecacuanha’ it was the common emetic (6 to 9 of the green leaves in whey) ; but, owing to the violence of its action, it has long fallen into disuse. Its common name in France (cabaret, or public-house plant), is said to have arisen from its frequent employment to relieve the stomach of those who had drunk too hard. It is now almost solely used as a sternutatory or errhine, and is probably one of the best. According to Grager,^ asarabacca contains three volatile, oily principles, which may be obtained by distillation with water:—Vola- tile OIL (o'leum as'ari) :—As'arite, an odour- less, tasteless, and crystalline solid; fusible and volatilisable, yielding white and very irri- tating ftimes:—As'arem-cam'phor, dilfering chiefly from the last in being precipitated, by water, from its alcoholic solution in cubes or six-sided prisms, instead of delicate flexible needles. Also a brownish, bitter, crystallisable principle (as'arine, as'arem-bit'ter), which is soluble in alcohol. Uses, dose, 8^c. Dried leaves, 20 to 30 gr., or root, 10 to 12 gr.; as a purge or emetic. As an errhine—^leaves, 3 to 5 gr.; root, 1 to 3 gr.; in powder,snuffedupthe noseevery day, orevery other day, at bed-time. It excites irritation and a copious watery discharge, more or less mu- culent, which frequently continues to flow for several days, and occasionally proves highly useful in certain affections of the brain, eyes, mouth, nose, ear, and throat, on the principle of counter-irritation. It has been found “ par- ticularly serviceable in cephalalgia (headache), obstinate toothache, chronic ophthalmia (inflam- 1 Gobcl aud Kemze, Pharin. WaarenJc1820-1.