1262 TABES—TALLOW. in preference), 11 11. oz.; wJdte sugar, 14 oz. ; and make a syrup. Dose. 1 dr. to 1 11. oz. j as an expectorant, in coughs and colds, or dif- fused through any mild diluent, as a drink in f,‘vers. A more agreeable preparation is that of the P. Cod., made by dissolving 30 parts of sugar in 16 parts of raspberry vinegar. Syrup of Vi'olets. Syn. Syrupijs tiola- liUJi, Steupus violjb (Ph. L. & E.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Macerate violet flowers, 9 oz., in boiling water, 1 pint, for twelve hours, then press, strain, and set aside the liquid, that the faeces may subside; afterwards complete the process with sugar, 3 lb., and rectifled spirit, 2^ 11. oz., (or as much of each as may be neces- sary,) in the way which has been ordered con- cerning SYEFP OP COCHINEAL. 2. (Ph. E.) Fresh violets, 1 lb.; boiling water, 2^ pints; infuse for 24 hours in a co- vered vessel of glass or earthenware, strain off the liquor (with gentle pressure), filter, and dissolve in the liquid tcAiVe sugar, Ih. 3. {Wholesale.) From double-reflned white sugar, 66 lb.; ‘ anthokyan,’ ^ 11 lb.; water, 22 lb., or q. s.; dissolve in earthenware. Uses. Syrup of violets is gently laxative. Dose. For an infant, a teaspoonful. Obs. Genuine syrup of violets has a lively violet-blue colour, is reddened by acids, turned green by alkalies, and both smells and tastes of the flowers. It is frequently used as a test. A spurious sort is met with in the shops, which is coloured with litmus, and slightly scented with orris root. The purest sugar, perfectly free from either acid or alkaline contamina- tion, should alone be used in the manufacture of this syrup. The Ph. E. orders the infusion to he strained without pressure; and the P. Cod., and some other Ph., direct the flowers to be first washed in cold water. Syrup of Worm'wood. Syn. Syeupits ab- siNTHii, L.j SiEOP d’absinthe, Fr. Prep. (P. Cod.) Tops of wormwood (dried), 1 part; boiling water, 8 parts; infuse for 12 hours, strain, with expression, and dissolve in the liquor twice its weight of sugar. Bitter, tonic, and stomachic. Dose. 1 to 3 fi. dr. TA'BES. [L.] The medical name for a wasting of the body, characterised by emacia- tion and weakness, without coughing or pul- monary expectoration. It is distinguished from ATEOPHY" in being accompanied by symptoms of fever, more or less extreme, which are ab- sent in that disease. The common causes are said to he acrimony in the blood, owing to the absorption of pus from an abscess (tabes ph- rylenta) ; or the presence of some poisonous substance, as arsenic or mercury (tabes vene- nata) ; or a scrofulous taint (tabes sceopy- LOSA, T. mesenteeica) ; Or an excessive indul- gence of the venereal appetite (tabes dorsalis). ^ The expressed juice of violets, defecated, gently heated in earthenware to 192° i'alir., tlien skimmed, cooled, and filtered; a little spirit is next added, and tlie next day the compound is again filtered. The treatment consists mainly in the avoidauci' of exciting causes or practices, change of re sidence to a more salubrious atmosphere (when necessary), and the adoption of the usual tonii; treatment recommended under atrophy. TABLETTES. [Fr.] See Lozenges ane' Satonettes. TAFTETAS. Plasters on silk are occasion ally so called. For tappetas Anglicym, sec CoYRT Plaster ; for tappetas yesicans. Set Vesicants. TALC. Syn. Foliated talc; XJbryc. \ transparent, foliated, siliceous magnesian mi neral, flexible, hut not elastic, found in Scot, land, the Tyrol, and elsewhere. It is used at' a cosmetic, to impart a silky whiteness to tin skin; also in the composition of rouge vegetal and to give a flesh-like polish to alabaster figures. A second and harder species of tlii^ mineral (French chalk, soapstone, stea TiTE j CRETA Gallica) is employed as a crayoi by carpenters, glaziers, and tailors, and form the boot-powder of the boot-makers. Writing executed with it on glass, even after being aj) parently removed by friction, becomes agaii visible when breathed upon. TAL'LOW and other fats are commonly puri fled by melting them along with water, pass ing the mixed fluids through a sieve, ara letting the whole cool slowly, when a cake o cleansed fat is obtained.—Another plan is t( keep the tallow melted for some time, alonj. with about 2§ of oil of vitriol, largely dilutee with w'ater, employing constant agitation, am allowing the whole to cool slowly; then to re melt the cake with a large quantity of /io. water, and to wash it well.—Another methoc, is to blow steam for some time through thr, melted fat. By either this or the preceding process a white hard tallow may be obtained.— Some persons add a little nitre to the ^meltee fat, and, afterwards, a little dilute nitric or sul phuric acid, or a solution of bisulphate of pot ash. Others boil the fat along with wate) and a little dilute nitric or chromic acid, or ; mixture of bichromate of potash and sulphuru acid ; and afterwards wash it thoroughly witl water. These methods answer well for thi tallow or mixed fats of which ordinary candle are made. Tallow converted into stearic acid h; saponification (see page 1238) is readily hard ened and bleached, if moderately pure. A mix ture composed of 1 part of oxalic acid am 2000 parts of water is suflicient to bleacl 1000 parts of stearic acid. The mode ,o operating is as follows :—Throw the steari acid, cut into small pieces, into a vessel o cold water, and turn on steam; as soon as i has melted and assumed a turbid appearance add the solution of oxalic acid, and boil th mixture. After boiling for hour, long thread appear in the liquid; the liquid itself, whic previously was of a grayish colour, beconu black, and the threads unite together. Th boiling must now be discontinued, and th