948 OAK-OCHRES. VOMICA (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. *‘Tlie seed of Strychnos Nu,r Vomica, Linn.^' (Ph. L.) This drug is chiefly known as a violent excitant of the cerehro-spinal system. In small doses, frequently repeated, it is tonic, diuretic, and, occasionally, laxative; in slightly larger ones, it is emetic; and, in large doses, it is an energetic and fearful poison. Dose. 1 to 5 or 6 gr.; in paralysis, nervous affections, im- potence, chronic dysentery, chronic diarrhoea, &c. Its frequent use is said to render the system proof against the poison of serpents. See Stetchnine, its active principle. OAK. The British oak is the Quercus Robur of Linnaeus, of which there are two varieties, Q. peduncata and Q. sessijlora. The wood of the oak is more durable than that of any other tree, and “ for at once supporting a weight, resisting a strain, and not splintering by a cannon shot, it is superior to every other kind.^^ It, nevertheless, “warps and twists much in drying; and, in seasoning, shrinks about'l-32nd of its width.^' Foreign oak is less durable, but more brittle and workable. The bark (oak baek ; qijeecus coktex, QTJEECUS—Ph. L. E. & D.) is used as an astringent and febrifuge, in doses of 15 to 30 gr., frequently j an astringent decoction is also made of it, but its chief employment is in tanning leather. The peculiar appearance of old oak or ‘wainscoting^ is given to the new wood by exposing it, whilst very slightly damp, to the fames of ammonia. OAT. Syn. Avena, L. The common cul- tivated oat is the Avena saliva (Linn.), a graminaceous plant, of which there are several varieties, as the Avena saliva alba, or white oat; A. s. nigra, or black oat; the potato oat, &c. Other species are also cultivated, as Avena nuda (Linn.), pilcorn, or naked oat; A. strigosa, or Spanish oat, &c. The seed (oats ; CAEYOPSIDES, SEMINA AVEN^ CBUDA) form the common horse-corn of this country, but in the northern parts of the country it is extensively used as food for man. The husked grain constitutes geoats, and its meal oat- meal. The latter does not form a dough with water, as wheaten meal or flour does. Oats consist of from 24§ to 28g of husk, and 74g to 78§ of grain. According to M. Payen, they contain of starch 60‘59§ ; azotized matter, 14’395; saccharine and gummy matter, 9'25§; fatty matter, 5'50^; cellulose, 7’06g; silica and saline matter, 3'25§. The husk contains be- tween 6 and 7§ of saline matter. (Prof. Norton.) The ash is 2T8g, and consists of potassa and soda, 26T8g; lime, 5*95g; mag- nesia, 9'95g; oxide of iron, '40§; phosphoric acid, 43’84g; sulphuric acid, 10*45g; chlorine, *26g; silica, 2‘67§; alumina, ‘Oflg. (Johnston.) The yield of oats is from 20 bushels per acre in poor soils, up to 60, 70, and even 80 bushels per acre in rich soils. The weight per bushel varies from 35 to 45 lb., and the pro- duct in meal is about one half the weight of the oats. A large proportion of the oats given to horses passes off undigested. It has hence been proposed to prevent this loss, by either coarsely bruising them in a mill, or by pour- ing boiling water over them, and allowing them to macerate till cold, when they are to be given to the horses without straining off the water. It is stated on good authority, that oats thus treated will not only fatten quicker, but go twice as far as without prepa- ration. Oat bruisers are now manufactured by most agricultural implement makers. OAT'MEAL. Syn. Aven^ eaeina, F. ex SEMINIBUS AVENAE (Ph. D.), L. Of thirty samples of oatmeal examined by the ‘ Lancet Sanitary Commissioner,’ no fewer than sixteen samples, or more than one half, were adulterated. The substance generally used for this purpose is barley meal, which is only half the price of oatmeal. That supplied to the army, navy, the workhouses, &c., is also very commonly adulterated with whiting, plaster of Paris, or ground bones. These frauds are readily de- tected by the microscope. 0BE"SITY. Syn. Obesitas, Polysaecia, L. Unhealthy or troublesome fatness or cor- pulency. Sometimes the secretion of fat, and its accumulation in the adipose membrane, is almost as rapid as that of water in anasarca; on which account some of the old writers have called obesity a dropsy of fat. Persons in easy circumstances, of indolent habits, who live freely, and who are of a cheerful and con- tented disposition, are those most liable to obesity. The treatment consists in the very gradual reduction of the diet, until it falls rather below the average quantity required by a healthy adult; the very gradual disuse of fermented liquors, more especially beer; the gradual abridgment of the time devoted to repose, until it does not exceed 5 or 6 hours; the employment of several hours daily in exercise in the open air, at first moderate, but increased day by day in energy, until it becomes laborious; and, lastly, arousing the mind from a state of lethargy to one of active or even harassing employment. In some few cases the accumulation of fat has been enormous. Bright, of Maldon, weighed 728 lb.; Daniel Lambert, of Leicester, 739 lb.; a girl, 4 years old, noticed in the ‘ Phil. Trans.,’ 1813, weighed 256 lb. Persons affected with obesity are generally short-lived. O'CHRES. These are native earthy com- pounds of clay, coloured with oxide of iron, with frequently a little chalk, or magnesia. The differences in the colour arise partly from the quantity of iron present, and partly from the state of oxidation in which the iron is found. Several varieties are known in com-a merce—beown ochee, Feench o., Oxford^ | o., EED o., Roman o.. Yellow o. All these « with the exception of the first and fourth,