ARSENIOUS ACID. 223 forming a mirror, whilst an exceeding!}- ! small portion escapes at the capillary orifice Qi), land fills the air with its garlic-like odour. The i second spirit-lamp is at last slowly advanced toward the other lamp, or the spot {k), so as ito drive towards {g) all the arsenic which has 'adhered to the walls of the wider part of the ;tube. Both lamps are then removed, the tube closed at the point (A) by fusion, and heat applied, progressing from the point (/<) to- [wards {g), to contract the mirror on that side [also, which increases its beauty and distinct- ness. The tube is then cut off at (/), and Ihermetically closed and sealed. In this state |it becomes a permanent evidence which may ihe referred to in any future proceedings. \Neither sulphuret of antimony nor any other \compound of antimony yields a metallic mirror lor ring, when treated in this way. Less than gr. of tersulphuret of arsenic thus gives a \very distinct and beautiful mirror; and even 15^^- gr., a clearly perceptible one. i 20. Voltaic Test. The wires from the oppo- Isite poles of a voltaic battery are immersed or brought in contact with a little of the arse- |nious solution placed in a capsule or on a [piece of window-glass. If arsenic be present it is developed at the negative pole; and if this be fonned of copper-wire, it becomes whitened and assumes the appearance of polished steel or silver, in consequence of the formation of arsenide of copper. 21. Wollaston’s Method. See Gen. Com- mentary (below). 22. Zinc Test; Zinco-arsenical Test. In this method, which originated with Dr. Lethe- by, metallic zinc and nitric acid are employed tin the same manner as copper and hydro- |3hloric acid in Reinsch’s process. It possesses ithis advantage, that the coated zinc may be kt once (without any preparation), placed in a i^as-evolution apparatus along with water and mlphuric acid, when arseniuretted hydrogen will be evolved, which may be submitted to the usual tests.^ 23. Detection of Arsenic in Organic Mix- 'pires. Of the previous Tests, those which act by producing coloured precipitates are only applicable, with any degree of certainty, to perfectly limpid and colourless liquids. Those iclepending on the extrication of arseniuretted hydrogen are partially free from this incon- Ivenience; but even here, if the ‘ suspected [liquid^ be more than slightly charged with brganic matter, so much frothing ensues, as |to render the process nearly unmanageable. In this respect Rensch's Test and Letheby’s 'Test, possess advantages over all others; as |thcy may be applied even to coloured liquids pontaining a considerable quantity of organic imatter, without these being subjected to any preliminary process, and without danger of r’ailure. In some cases also, as with liquids pos- sessing only a slight degree of consistency or colour, the arsenic may be separated, after simple ^ “Thann. Joum.p v., 18i5. filtration and acidiilation with hydrochloric acid, by a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen, in the usual manner. The reduction-test is only applicable to solid arsenious acid, or to com- pounds of arsenic obtained by means of other tests or processes. In toxicological examina- tions the poison is almost always to be sought for in mixtures loaded with organic matter, and under other conditions even more embar- rassing. Soon after arsenic is swallowed, it enters the circulation, contaminates the various tissues, localises itself in certain viscera, and is eliminated in the excretions. Hence it becomes necessary not only to examine the solids and liquids in which it is suspected the poison has been administered, the vomited matter, and the contents of the stomach and primm vise; but also, in fatal cases, the stomach itself, the liver, muscles, blood, and, more especially, the urine.^ In such cases the stomach is the part first laid open, and a careful examination is made of its contents and coats in order to detect any undissolved par- ticles of the poison; a pocket lens being em- ployed, if necessary, in the search. If any particles, however minute, are found, they are carefully collected and submitted to the ‘ re- duction-test.’ If the reverse be the case, the stomach (cut into small pieces), together with its contents, is submitted to some further pro- cess, to obtain a solution suitable for the ap- plication of the usual tests. The liver, also some muscle, and any other portion of the body that may be selected, are likewise sepa- rately treated in the same manner. We have here, both solid and liquid organic matter to operate on, and the problem for solution is, the abstraction of their arsenic in the simplest and most certain manner, and in a form in which its presence may be demonstrated by tests. This subject has long engaged the attention of the most eminent chemists and toxicologists, and various plans have been proposed for the purpose; among which the following appear to be the most valuable, and are those usually adopted :— a. (Christison.) The ‘suspected matters’ are boiled in a glass-vessel w-ith distilled water, for half-an-hour, a little potassa or ammonia being added; the liquid is then strained or filtered, first through a hair-sieve, and then through muslin or coarse paper, again boiled with a little acetic (or hydrochloric) acid, and filtered a second time. In this state the liquid is usually clear enoiigh to be tested with the ammonio-nitrate of silver (or in ‘ Marsh’s apparatus ’), when if this test acts freely, the process of testing with other re- agents may be proceeded with ; but if, on the contrary, the indi(;ation is feeble, the liquid is evaporated to dryness, and the residuum re- dissolved by boiling it in repeated portions of 2 Absorbed arsenic more particularly localises itself in the liver, in which it may generally be found in from 13 to 15 hours after administration. Tlic liver also generally retains traces of arsenic long after it lias been eliminated from the other viscera and the muscular tissues.