145 AMMONIA. [f heat be employed in the evaporation of the 'solution, an acid citeate will be formed. Uses, S^c. Chiefly as a chemical test. An \fxtemporaneous citrate, made with lemon-juice iind drank effervescing, is employed as a saline draught, and a mild aperient and diaphoretic, n fevers, &c. See Citeic Acid, Deafghts, iind Solutions. I Cy'anate of Ammonia. See Cyanic Acid jmd Ueea. Ferrochlo"ride of Ammonia. See Ammonio- pHLOEIDE OF IeON. t Ferrocit'rate of Ammonia. See Ammonio- . :iITEATE OF IeON. t Ferrocy'anate of Ammonia. See Feeeo- : 2YANIDE OF AMMONIUM. f j Ferrotar'trate of Ammonia. See Ammonio- ' DAETEATE OF IeON. •» Hydri'odate of Ammonia. Sun. I'odide I )F AMMO"NIUM; AMMO"NIiE HYDEIO'DAS, |\.mmo"nii iodi'dum, L.; Hydeiodate d’am- jHONiAQUE, Fr. Prep. 1. An aqueous solution i )f hydriodic acid is neutralised with ammonia, * j)r its sesquicarhonate, in slight excess; and j;he resulting liquid is either carefully, but •apidly, evaporated to dryness over a water- jath, or it is concentrated by the same means, ind then caused to deposit crystals by re- rigeration; in both cases, care is taken to Iceep a slight excess of ammonia present during -he evaporation. The crystals are dried by )ressure between folds of bibulous paper j and ;he product, in either form, preserved in a [ttoppered bottle. I 2. (P. C.) Sesquicarhonate of ammonia, in I jowder, is added to a clear solution of iodide \f iron, as long as it occasions a precipitate; Jmd the filtered or decanted liquid is eva- porated (crystallised — P. C.), &c., as before. I 3. Pure iodine is triturated with a little distilled water, and liquid hydrosulphate of \immonia added, in small quantities at a time, |vith continued trituration, until the red [colour of the iodine has entirely disappeared, jfhe solution, after being gently boiled for a few jieconds, to expel the ‘ sulphuretted hydrogen ’ present, is filtered, slightly alkalised with ammo- 'lia, and evaporated or crystallised, as before. Prop., dfc. Colourless; deliquescent; freely jioluble in water, and in spirit; air and light turn it yellowish or brownish, with partial ilecomposition. It closely resembles ‘ iodide of Potassium,* than which it is more active, and jihought to be better suited to irritable and •elaxed habits.—Dose. 1 to 10 or 12 gr. I Hydrobro'mate of Ammonia. Syn. Beo'mtde |)F AMMO"NIUM; AmMO"NI.E HYDEOBEO'MAS, Ammo"nii BEOMI'DUM, a. beo'mis, L. ; Hy- Peobeomate d’ammoniaque, Beomuee d*am- monium, Fr. A salt which is obtained from \iydrobromic acid, bromide of iron, &c., by limilar processes to those adopted for the !• I hydriodate ’ (see above). It forms white t |)rismatic crystals; and, in its general pro- I berties, resembles ‘ bromide of potassium.’ It I's volatile, and easily decomposed. ' I li Hydrochlo"rate of Ammonia. Syn. Mu"eiate OF ammonia*, SaL-AMMO"NIAC X; ChLO"- EIDE OF AMMO”NIUM, ChLOEO-AM'IDIDE OP hy'deogen, Chem.; Ammo"nije hydeo- chlo"eas (Ph. L. & D.), A. mu"eias (Ph. E. & U. S., & Ph. D. 1826), Ammo"nii chloei'- DUM, Sal ammoni'acus f, S. ammoni'acum f, &c., L.; Chloehydeate d’ammoniaque, Sel ammoniac, &c., Fr.; Salmiak, Ger. A substance which, as already noticed, appears to have been originally obtained, by subli- mation, from the soot of camel’s dung, in Egypt. In this country, at the present day, it is manufactured chiefly from the crude ammoniacal liquors obtained as secondary pro- ducts in the manufacture of coal-gas and animal charcoal. Formerly it was prepared from the soot of coal, and, according to Gmelin, it is still manufactured, at Liege, from the soot produced by the combustion of a mixture of coal, common salt, clay, and animal matter, in furnaces of a peculiar construction. Prep. 1. From GAS-liquoe : — The crude ammoniacal liquor of the gas-works is, either at once, or after distillation^, neutralised with hydrochloric or sulphuric acid, the choice being given to the one which is the cheaper and more accessible at the place where the works are situated. When ‘ hydrochloric acid* is employed, the satueation is usually effected by allowing the acid to flow from a large wooden vessel or tank lined with lead or gutta- percha, into a large underground reservoir or tank containing the * ammoniacal liquor,’ and having an exit-tube passing into the chimney or shaft of the steam engine, to carry off the sulphuretted hydrogen and other offensive gases liberated during the mixture. Some- times the ‘ gas-liquor ’ is accumulated in enormous covered wooden tuns, capable of holding from 10,000 to 20,000 gallons, or more; and the ‘ acid ’ is added by raising the gutta-percha carboys containing it by means of cranes, and then thoroughly mixing it with the liquor by means of powerful ‘agitators,’ whilst the offensive fumes are either passed ofi‘, as before, or made to traverse the fire of the steam-engine before entering the chimney shaft. The quantity of acid employed to eftect saturation must, of course, depend on the ‘ ammoniacal strength ’ of the gas-liquor operated on. The usual proportions are 1^ to 2 lb. of the former, to each gal. of the latter but in all cases, sufficient should be added to impart a very faint acid reaction to the mixture. This last having been effected, the saline solution, now containing hydrochlorate of am- monia, is, after repose, ready to be ‘ pumped ’ or ‘ run off’ into the ‘ evaporators.’ The EVAPOEATION of the ‘ crude saline solu- tion’ is usually carried on in large square or rec- ' This is now generally conducted in a large wronght- iron boiler, connected with a rude modification of Coffey's still; the object being to obtain the liquor freer from tar and more concentrated. * Muspratt. 10