1265 TANTALIC ACID—TAETAR. ipreliminary processes to which they are sub- i jected, more especially the Himing' and ‘ bating.^ He says, that 100 lb. of perfectly dry hide, (cleaned from extraneous matter, should, on chemical principles, afford at least 180 lb. of (leather. I Morocco leather is prepared from goat or ^'iheep skins, which, after the action of lime [water and a dung bath, are slightly tanned in ,1 bath of sumach. They are subsequently (grained, polished, &c. I Russia leather is generally tanned with a decoction of willow bark, after which it is dyed, ind curried with the empyreumatic oil of the birch tree. It is the last substance which im- jjarts to this leather its peculiar odour and bower of resisting mould and damp. See ‘Leather, Tannic Acid, Tawing, &c. I TANTAL'IC acid. Syn. Columbic acid. iChis compound exists in the ores of colum- )ium in combination with iron, manganese, or 'ttria. Prep. The ore is fused along with 3 or 4 inies its weight of carbonate of potassa ; the •esulting tantalate of potassa is dis- olved out of the fused mass with water, and he solution thus obtained is precipitated with , mineral acid; the white powder which falls 3 hydrated tantalic acid. Prop., 8fc. It is insoluble in water, but eadily unites with the alkalies, forming salts ermed tantalates, which are crystallizable. it is soluble in hydrofluoric acid, and the solu- ion, by evaporation at 76° Fahr., deposits rystals of terfluoride of tantalum. The I'OUBLE fluoride OF TANTALUM AND POTAS- liUM may also be readily formed. Sp. gr. i*25 to 8'25. TAN'TALUM. Syn. CoLUMBiUM. A rare letal discovered by Mr. Hatchett, in 1801, in mineral from Massachusetts; and by M. Eke- |erg, in 1803, in tantalite, a mineral found in 1 weden. It exists in most of its ores in com- ination with oxygen. Prep. From the double fluoride of potassium nd tantalum, by heating it with potassium, in be way described under Silicon. Prop., 8fc. A gray metal, little acted on by cids, burning to tantalic acid when heated 1 the air, or when fused with potassa. With ixygen it forms two compounds—an oxide or rotoxide, which is insoluble, obtained by xposing tantalic acid, for 4 or 5 hours, to an dense heat, in a crucible lined with charcoal, nd luted; and a binoxide or peroxide, hich is TANTALIC ACID. (See above.) It Iso forms corresponding compounds with blovine. Obs, H. Rose has discovered another metal, died NIOBIUM, in the tantalite of Bavaria, b is obtained as a black powder, insoluble in itric acid, and nearly so in sulphuric and ydrochloric acids, but readily soluble in a lixture of nitric and hydrofluoric acids. With Kygen it forms two oxides of an acid cha- icter, NiOBOUS and niobic acids. TAPE-WORM. See Worms. TAPIO'CA. Syn. Tapioca (Ph. E. & D.), L. The fecula of the root of Janipha manihot {Ja^ tropha manihot—Linn.), which has been well washed in water, and dried on hot plates, by which it assumes the appearance of warty- looking granules. Pure tapioca is insipid, inodorous, only slightly soluble in cold water, but entirely soluble in boiling water, forming a translu- cent and highly nutritious jelly. Its granules are muller-shaped, about 53*55 of an inch in diameter, and display very marked hilums. It is used in a similar manner to sago and arrow- root. See Cassava. TAR. Syn. Pix liquida (Ph. L. E. & D.)j L. “A liquid bitumen prepared from (the) wood^^ of Pinis sylvestris, and other species, “ by heat.” (Ph. L.) The chemical constitu- tion of tar is very complicated. Its uses in the arts are well known. As a medicine, it is stimulant, diuretic, sudoriflc, and vermifuge. Dose. 5 to 20 gr., made into pills; in ichthy- osis, &c. Externally, in lepra, psoriasis, foul ulcers, &c. See Ointment and Infusion. Bar'badoes Tar. Syn. Pix liquida Bar- badensis, Petroleum Barbadense, Petro- leum (Pli. L. & E ), L. “ Black liquid bitu- men, exuding spontaneously from the earth.” (Ph. L.) Its properties for the most part resemble those of the last. Dose. 10 to 30 drops; in asthma, chronic coughs, tape-worm, &c. Externally, in chilblains, chronic and rheumatic pains, &c. See Petroleum. Coal Tar. Produced during the distillation of bituminous coal for gas. See Naphtha, &c. TARAX'ACUM. See Dandelion. TARPAU'LIN. Syn. Tarpawling. Canvas covered with tar or any composition to render it waterproof. TAR'RAS. Syn. Terris. A volcanic pro- duct, resembling puzzolene, that imparts to mortar the property of hardening under water. Several other argilloferruginous minerals pos- sess the same power, and are used under this term. TAR'TAR. Syn. Argal, Argol; Tar- TARUM, Tartarus, L. Impure bitartrate of potassa. Crude tartar is the concrete de- posit formed upon the sides of the casks and vats during the fermentation of grape juice. That obtained from white wine is white ARGOL; that from red wine, red argol. After purification it forms cream of tartar. (See page 1120.) Ammo”niated Tartar. Syn. Ammonio-tar- TRATE OF POTASSA, SOLUBLE TARTAR (AmmO- niated); Tartarus ammoniatus, Tartarum solubile ammoniatum, L. Prep. Neutralize a solution of cream of tartar with ammonia in slight excess, then evaporate, and crystallize. Very soluble in water. A favourite laxative on the Continent. Bo"raxated Tartar. Syn. Soluble cream OF tartar. Boro-tartrate of potassa and 80