1204 SMOKING—SNUFF. feet combustion. Other inventions are based upon supplying fuel to the fires from beneath, so that the products of combustion must pass through the incandescent coals above. For household fires, the smokeless grate, in- vented by Dr. Arnott, wiU be found entirely successful, and most economical. Its general introduction would be a great advance in both domestic and public hygiene; and, being hence of national importance, should be en- forced by law. SMOCKING. This is done, on the large scale, by hanging up the articles (previously more or less salted) in smoking rooms, into which smoke is very slowly admitted from smothered dry- wood fires, kindled in the cellar, for the pur- pose of allowing it to cool and deposit its cruder part before it arrives at the meat. This process requires from six days to as many weeks to perform it properly, and is best done in winter. In farm-houses, where dry wood is burnt, hams, &c., are often smoked by hanging them up in some cool part of the kitchen chimney. When the meat is cut into slices, or scored deeply with a knife, to allow the smoke to penetrate it, it is called ‘bucaning.^ “ The quality of the wood has an infiuence upon the smell and taste of the smoke-dried meat; smoke from beech wood and oak being preferable to that from fir and larch. Smoke from the twigs and berries of juniper, from rosemary, peppermint, &c., impart somewhat of the aromatic flavour of these plants.^' (Ure.) The occasional addition of a few cloves or all- spice to the fuel' gives a very agreeable flavour to the meat. Hung beef, a highly esteemed variety of smoked beef, is prepared from any part, free from bone and fat, by well salting and pressing it, and then drying and smoking it in the usual manner. It is best eaten shredded. See Pu- TEEFACTION, SALTING, &C. SNAKE-ROOT. See Senega. For ‘Vir- ginian snake-root’ see Seepentaet. Snake- weed (BiSTOETiE EADix) is the root of Poly- Qonum Bistoria (Linn.). SNIPE. The Scolopax Gallinago, a well- known bird indigenous to this country. It is fine flavoured, but rather indigestible. SNUFF. Syn. Pulvis tabaci, L. ; Tabac EN potjdee, Fr. A powder, prepared from tobacco, for the purpose of being sniffed up the nose as a stimulant or intoxicant. The finer kinds of snuff are made from the soft portions of the best description of manu- factured leaf-tobacco, separated from the da- maged portion; but the ordinary snuffs of the shops are mostly prepared from the 'coarser and damaged portions, the mid-ribs, stems, or stalky parts, that remain from the manufacture of ‘ shag tobacco,’ the dust or powder sifted from the bales, and the fragments that are unfit for other purposes. Prep. The proper materials being chosen, and if not in a sufficiently mature state ren- dered so by further fermentation, they are sufficiently dried by a gentle heat or exposi to the air to admit of being pulverized. T' is performed, on the large scale, in a mill, ai on the small scale, with a kind of pestle a mortar. During the operation the tobacco frequently sifted, that it may not be redm to too fine a powder, and is several tin slightly moistened with rose or orange-fioh water, or eau d'ange, which are the only liqu fit for the superior kinds of snuff. In p paring the dry snuffs, no moisture is used. 1 scent or other like matters are next added, ai, after thorough admixture, the snuff is pacl in jars or canisters. Adult. During the grinding of tobacco i frequently mixed with dark-coloured rot wood, various English leaves, colouring, a other matter. Ammonia, hellebore, euphorbh axid. powdered glass, are common additions snuffs to increase their pungency. We h: seen powdered sal ammoniac sent by the hi dredweight at one time to a certain celebra London tobacconist. The moist kinds of shi are generally drugged with pearlash, for triple purpose of keeping them damp and creasing their pungency and colour. The i snuffs, especially ‘ Scotch* and ‘ Welsh,* commonly adulterated with quicklime, ■ particles of which may be occasionally dist guished even by the naked eye. This dition causes their biting and desiccat; effect on the pituitary membrane. “ * were once severely injured by taking si i which, after our suspicions were awaket , we found to contain a mixture of red lead I umber.** (Cooley.) Var. Snuffs are divided into two kind DEY SNUEPS, as ‘ Scotch,* ‘Irish* * Wei and ‘ Spanish snuff* ‘ Lundyfoot* &c.; an - MOIST SNUPPS, or EAPPEES, including ‘bl* and ‘ brown rappee* * carotte* ‘Cuba*‘Hi- ham’s mixture* ‘prince's mixture* ‘p • ceza* ‘ queen*s snuff,* &c. The last three 3 come under the denomination of scen 3 SNUPPS. The immense variety of snuffs kept in e shops, independently of the above-named i - ditions, depend for their distinguishing cha - teristics on the length of the fermentation, e fineness of the powder, the height to ^ they are dried, and the addition of odo s substances. Tonquin beans, essence of ton « bean, ambergris, musk, civet, leaves of or'* fusca, root and oil of calamus aromaticus,} der and essence of orris root, and the esse '< or oils of bergamot, cedra, cloves, laver<^i petit grain, neroli, and roses (otto), as wel l* several others, either alone or compounded ’e thus employed. Tabac paepumee aux pli is perfumed by putting orange flowers, jasns, tuberoses, musk roses, or common roses, to le snuff' in a close chest or jar, sifting them it after 24 hours, and repeating the treatr. it with fresh flowers, as necessary. Another ty is to lay paper, pricked all over with a I pin, between the flowers and the snuff. 1