POT POUERI—POUDRETTE. 1126 an excellent eoetemporaneous dish of mashed! potatoes. j POT POUERI. [Fr.] A mixture of odorous | flowers, roots, gums, &c., varied according to | the taste of the operator, either mixed toge- j ther dry, or in the fresh state preserved with | salt. “ The usual way of making it is to j collect roses, lavender, and other sweet-scented j flowers, as they blow; to put them into a large jar mixed (stratified) with salt, until a sufficient quantity has been collected; then to add to these such other odorous substances as may he required to form an agreeable per- fume.” Among the substances thus added are—ambergris, benzoin, calamus root, casca- rilla, cassia, cassia buds, cinnamon, civet, cloves, musk, musk seed, orange berries and flowers, orris root, pimento, storax, vanilla, yellow sandal wood, &c. ‘‘ Instead of the fresh flowers, dried roses are sometimes used, and, with the addition of some essential oils, these answer quite as well.” (Redwood.) POT'TED MEATS. See Puteefaction and Potting {below). POT'TERY. The mechanical operations con- nected with the manufacture of pottery (ce- EAMic aet) do not come within the province of this work. The materials employed, in this country, to produce the best kind of earthenware (Staefoedshiee waee) are the fine white clays of Devonshire and Cornwall, and powdered chert or flint. This is brought to a perfectly homogeneous plastic mass with water, and in this state is fashioned upon the potter’s wheel and lathe, or by moulding, into all the various objects of utility and ornament which are made in this material. After the newly formed vessels and other articles have been dried by exposure in heated rooms, they are enclosed in clay cases (seggaes) and ex- posed to heat in a kiln, by which they arrive at a state (biscuit) which renders them fit for glazing; the patterns (if any) and, after- wards, appropriate vitreous materials having been applied to their surfaces, they are again placed in the seggars, and are again exposed in a kiln to a heat sufficiently high to fuse the newly applied compound, by which they ac- quire a uniform enamelled surface, and become fit for the market. Poecelain, or china, ^as it is commonly called, is manufactured in a nearly similar manner, hut the materials are selected and the various processes conducted with corresponding skill and care. The ornamental patterns are produced upon both Staffordshire ware and porcelain by a number of ingenious processes, among which printing, painting, and moulding, are the prin- cipal. The colours employed are those which have been already referred to under Enamels. The metallic lustres now so common on stoneware, &c., are given as follows :— 1. Gold lustee. Dissolve grain-gold, 1 dr., in aqua regia, f oz.; to the solution add of metallic tin, 6 gr.; and when this is dis- solved, pour it very gradually, with constri stirring, into a mixture of balsam of sulph I dr.; oil of turpentine, 20 gr.; when mass begins to stifien, \ dr. more of oil of ft pentine must he added, and well mixed More gold deepens and brightens the lusti more tin turns it on the violet or purple. 2. Ieon lustee. From a mixture oi‘n' riate of iron’ (protochloride of iron) and spi of tar. 3. Platinum lustee. To a solution platinum in aqua regia (bichloride of platinii is added, drop by drop, a mixture of spirit tar and balsam of sidphur in equal prop tions, until by a trial the composition is fou to give the required result. This gives 1; appearance of polished steel. 4. SiLTEE LUSTEE. The ammonio-chlor of platinum is reduced to an impalpable pc' der, ground up to the requisite consistei with a little spirit of tar, and at once appl with a brush. The above lustres are applied, over an em fusible glaze, to the outer surfaces only of vessels, after which adhesion is produced exposing the pieces to a slight degree of h in the muffle. To give them their full bear they must be rubbed with cotton, wool, chamois leather, after the firing. See A' I MINA, Clay, Enamels, Gilding, Glaz j Kaolin, &c. I pOT'TINGi. A term commonly applied ! the operation or practice of preserving anii ‘ substances in a state fit for immediate use I small j)ots or jars. The method of proce I ing is, first, to mince the substance (previoi j well dressed, and carefully deprived of boi- 1 sinews, skin, &c.), and, next, to piound it i' j clean polished marble or iron mortar, ali' I with a little butter and some cayenne pep; ' or other suitable spice or sauce, until it foil * a perfectly smooth paste; this is pressed i I the pots, so as to about 2-3rds fill them, i j clarified melted butter is then poured in to depith of about l-8th of an inch; the j j are, lastly, closely covered] over, and kepi I a cool situation. In this state their c tents may be preserved for a year, or Ion: Potted beef, ham, teal, poultey, ga • j ANCHOVIES, BLOATEES, SALMON, &C., are d I monly sold in the shops. They are all inten I for relishes, and are spread upon bread, in ' , same manner as butter. I POUDRE KOUSIQUE. [Fr.] A French]- ; trum, consisting of nitre and sulphur, of ei > I 50 parts; charcoal and antimony, of eacl - i part. It is divided into ^-dr. doses, of wl ‘ three are put into each packet. It is gi i to dogs in a ball of butter, to prevent - disorders to which they are liable. POUDRE METALLIQUE. [Fr.] See To i CEi\rE]S^TS POUDRE SUBTILE. [Fr.] See Depilat e {page 515). POUDRETTE. [Fr.] T>r\edi night-soil. manure sold under this name is a compo I