CHLORANILE—CHLORIDE. 431 hoi, ether, and water; with a small quantity of the latter it rapidly changes into a semi- solid crystalline mass (hydeate of chloeal), which is soluble in a larger quantity of water; boils at 201°; sp. gr. 1’502. It is decomposed by the caustic earths and alkalies. By age it is converted into a white, solid, translucent substance (insoluble chloeal), which is re- converted by heat and by sulpWric acid into ordinary chloral. 06s. In operating as above, the chlorine is most conveniently introduced by a tube in- serted into the tubulature of the retort, and a long tube, bent upwards, should be connected with the beak to convey away the hydrochloric acid gas extricated, and to allow the volati- lized alcohol and chloral to condense, and flow back into the retort. CHLO"RANILE. Syn. Tetea'chloeoki'- NONE. One of the products of the decompo- sition of INDIGO. CHLORAN'ILINE, and Bichloean'iline. Substances obtained by distilling chlorisatin and bichlorisatin with highly concentrated solu- tion of caustic potassa. The first forms large, colourless octahedra ; tastes and smells of ani- line ; is very volatile and fusible; neutral; distils unaltered; and forms salts with the acids remarkable for the extreme beauty of their crystals. By treating aniline with chlo- rine gas, a volatile, crystalline, non-basic com- pound is formed, to which the name of tei'- chloeanTline has been given. CHLO 'RATE. Syn. HYFEEOXYMU"EIATEt; Chlo"eas, L. A compound of chloric acid with a base. Chlorates may be prepared by saturating the acid with bases. Some may be formed by dissolving metals in the acid. The ALKALINE CHLOEATES are made by passing chlorine into caustic or carbonated alkali, boil- ing the resulting liquid, and separating the chlorate from the chloride, which is also formed, by crystallization. They are very similar to the nitrates, both in their general properties and composition. They are all decomposed at a red heat, metallic chlorides being formed, and oxygen gas given off. Like the nitrates, they deflagrate with inflammable substances, but with greater facility and violence. A mixture of this kind will detonate with a slight blow or friction. AU the chlorates are soluble in water. Char., Tests, Sfc. The chlorates are known— 1. By exploding violently when mixed with sulphur, phosphorus, or sulphuret of antimony, and heated; friction, percussion, or the action of a minute quantity of concentrated sul- phuric acid will bring about the same result:— 2. By evolving a yellowish-green gas when treated with concentrated sulphuric acid, in the cold, which gas also communicates to the liquid a red or yellow tinge:—3. By evolving oxygen gas when heated alone in a test-tube. This test is not characteristic, unless carried a stage , further, by dissolving the residual chloride out of the tube, and adding to the filtered solu- tion a few drops of nitrate of silver; then the formation of a white precipitate, insoluble in nitric acid, will show that the salt treated was a chlorate, and not a nitrate. Pure chlorates give no precipitate with nitrate of silver. See Chloeic Acid (below). CHLORE'THERAL. A substance accidently formed by M. d’Arcet in the preparation of Dutch liquid. Little is known about it. CHLORHY'DRIC ACID. See Hydeochloeic Acid. CHL0"RIC ACID. Syn. Hypeeoxymuei- at'ic ACID; AciDUM chlo"eicum, L. An acid compound of chlorine and oxygen, disco- vered by Chenevix, but first* obtained in a se- parate form by Gay-Lussac. Prep. 1. Chlorate of baryta is dissolved in 16 times its weight of water ; and dilute sul- phuric acid added until all the baryta is pre- cipitated ; the clear liquid is then concentrated by evaporation until it acquires a yellow, oily consistence. 2. Chlorate of potassa is boiled with a solu- tion of hydrofiuosilicic acid, until insoluble hydrofluosilicate of potassa ceases to be formed; when the clear liquid is decanted and digested with a little silica, to Remove excess of hydro- fluosilicic acid; lastly, it is evaporated as before. Filtration through paper or other organic matter must be avoided. Prop., &^c. When pure, chloric acid is a colourless, syrupy liquid, having a strong acid reaction, and when warm a pungent smell. It chars paper and other dry organic substances, and frequently inflames them. It is a very powerful oxidizing and bleaching agent. Heat resolves it into perchloric acid, water, chlo- rine, and oxygen. It may be readily detected by neutralizing it with soda or potassa, and then applying the tests for chlorates. (See above.) CHL0"RIDE (-id). Syn. CHLo"EUEETf; Chloei'dum, L. a chemical compound of chlo- rine with a base. The principal commercial chlorides are those of ammonium (sal ammo- niac), ANTIMONY (butter of antimony), baeium, CALCIUM, GOLD, MEECUEY (calomel and corro- sive sublimate), tin (dyer’s spirits), and zinc (disinfecting solution of zinc). These and others less common are noticed under the names of the bases. Prep. The majority of the chlorides may be made by simply dissolving the base or its carbonate, oxide, or hydrate, in hydrochloric acid (previously diluted with about twice its weight of water), and evaporating and crys- tallizing the solution, in the usual manner. Zinc, cadmium, iron, nickel, cobalt, and tin, dissolve readily in hydrochloric acid; copper only in strong boiling acid; silver, mercury, and gold, not at all. The insoluble chlorides, as those of silver and mercury, may be readily prepared by precipitating any of their corresponding soluble salts with hydro- chloric acid, or a soluble chloride, such as common salt. Anhydrous chlorides are gene-