CINCHONA. 461 ; tincture of cascarilla, to which a little gum ; benzoin and storax may he added. Some i persons add a small quantity of camphor, or of I oil of cloves or cassia. I 2. By soaking the tobacco, of which the I cigars are to be made, or the cigars them- I selves, for a short time, in a very strong infu- sion of cascarilla, and then allowing them to dry by a very gentle heat. 3. By simply inserting very small shreds of cascarilla bark between the leaves of the cigar, or in small slits made for the purpose. Obs. The above yield a very agreeable odour when smoked; but are said to intoxi- cate quicker than unprepared cigars of equal jistrength and quality. They lose much of their fragrance by age. Stramo"nium Cigars. Syn. Dattj'ea ci&aes ; CiGARR-E STRAMo"Nii, L. From the leaves of Datura stramonium, or preferably those of the eastern species. Datura tatula. See Asthma, Datttra. CINCHONA (sin-ko'.na). [Eng., L.] The typical genus of the natural order Cinchonacece, consisting of trees and shrubs with evergreen leaves and, commonly, showy flowers. They are natives of the intertropical valleys of the Andes, and are found principally on the eastern face of the Cordilleras, growing at heights varying from about 4000 to nearly 12,000 feet above the level of the sea. The barks of several species and varieties are ex- tensively used in medicine, and are undoubtedly jthe most valuable drugs known. “ The ines- jtimable benefits conferred on man by the jintroduction of the cinchona barks into medi- '[cine are too well known, even to the unpro- ifessional reader, to need recapitulation. As ! Englishmen, we must be peculiarly sensible |of these advantages, when we consider that jthe whole of our tropical colonies are, as it were, built on foundations of cinchona bark, I and ^that without these invaluable prepara- |tions many districts in which we have estab- llished flourishing cities and busy settlements would simply be uninhabited wastes or Euro- pean graveyards. The enormous demand for quinine has of late years had a most disastrous sffect on the supply of bark, the bark mer- chants of South America having adopted the suicidal method of destroying the trees for pe sake of the bark, the inevitable conse- liffi quence of which will be that this valuable t bree will soon become extinct in its natural ; iiabitats. To remedy this, several reports jiave been at various times submitted both to ;;he Home and Indian Governments, by Dr. iRoyle and others, representing in the strongest inanner the necessity of providing against a jipeedy cinchona famine, by forming planta- Uons of these trees in India. The supineness bf the Government at last yielded before the incessant entreaties of various eminent men, bnd in 1859 an expedition, under the guidance j>t Mr. C. B. Markham, set out for Peru in jiuest of cinchona plants and seeds. After undergoing the greatest hardships, the efforts of these brave men were crowned with success, and several hundred healthy young plants are now growing in favorable parts of the northern slopes of the Neilgherry Hills, in Southern Hindustan, having been mostly reared from the seeds obtained by the expe- dition. The latest reports received from Mr. Mclvor, the Superintendent of the Cinchona Plantations, inform us that the young trees are in a very flourishing condition, and that before many years elapse Neilgherry barks will take a favorable position in our markets. It remains, however, to be seen how far the change of habitat will influence the quinine- producing properties of these trees.^’ (C. W. Quin.) A mere list of the species and varieties furnishing the barks of commerce would occupy more space than could be devoted to this head in the present work. We shall therefore confine ourselves to transferring to our pages the most useful portions of the notices of the Cinchonce which occur in the British Pharmacopoeias, with slight abridg- ments. Those desirous of further pursuing the subject are referred to the works of Boyle, Bindley, Pereira, Howard, Briquet, Weddell, and Karsten. Pale Cinchona Bark. Syn. Crown bark. Gray b., Jesuit’s b., Lance-leaved b., Lox'a b.. Pale b., Peru"vian b.. Quill R.; CiNCHO'NA PAL'LIDA, Cor'TEX CINCH0'N.E pal'lid^ (Ph. L. D. & U. S.), C. c. con- DAM'iNEE (Ph. E.), C. C. LANCIPO'LIiE (Ph. L. 1836), L. From * Cinchona condaminea* “ Slender, quilled, brown on its external surface, often covered with lichens, and split with very many fissures, for the most part transverse, and sometimes in a circular direc- tion ; of a cinnamon-brown colour on its internal surface. In taste, astringent and bitter.” (Ph. L.) Red Cinchona Bark. Syn. Bed bark. Ob- long-leaved B.; Cok'tex ru'ber, Cincho'na ru'bra, Cor'tex cincho'n.e ru'brae (Ph. L. E. D. & U. S.), Cincho'na oblongieo'lia (Ph. L. 1836), L. From uncertain species of cinchona.” “ Thick, either flat or curled, rough in the inner side, with wrinkles, furrows, or warty projections; reddish brown, or of a chesnut colour; bitter in taste.” (Ph. L.) * Yellow Cinchona Bark. Syn. Calisa'ya BARK, Heart-leaved b., Boyal b.. Yellow B.; Cincho'na pla'va re"gia (Ph. L.), C. PLAVA (Ph. E. D. & U. S.), Cinchona cordifo'lia (Ph. L. 1836), L. From ‘ Cin- chona Calisaya* Thick, for the most part covered with very fine, sharp fibres, either flat or curled. This species is ashy or brown- ish on its outer surface, rugose in its long direction, and cleft with deep fissures either transversely or circularly. It is generally naked, and of a brownish cinnamon tint. It has an extremely bitter taste. About 3 di\ of sulphate of quinine should be obtained