SPIRITS (PERFUMED). 1231 jEQFEBIJSADE; SpIRITUS VULNEEARIUS, L. ; jlAU d'arqtjebusade, Fr. Prep. 1. Dried of sagey wormwood, fennel, hyssop, mar- j»ram, savory, thyme, rosemary, calamint, halm, pppermint, and scordium, fresh leaves of an- dica and basil, and lavender flowers, of each, [ oz.; proof spirit, 2 gall.; digest for 14 days, ,iid distil over 1| gall. j 2. Rosemary leaves, 1^ lb.; leaves of thyme Ind summits of millefoil, of each, ^ Ih.; juniper s^rries, 3 oz.; proof spirit, 2 gall.; distil over I quarts. i Obs. This preparation is stimulant and vul- erary, and is in great repute on the Con- nent as a cosmetic and cordial. I SPIRITS (Perfumed). Syn. Spiritus odo- jiFERi, Odores spieituosi, L. The odo- (iferous spirits of the perfumer are, for the lost part, prepared from various aromatic and dorous substances, by a similar process to that escribed under Essences and Spirits (Medi- inal); but in this case a perfectly pure, fla- ourless, and scentless spirit must be employed, 'he distillation should also be preferably con- ucted by steam, or the heat of a water bath, nd the distilled spirit should be kept for ime time in a cellar, or other cold situation, jreviously to being used. When simple solu- lion of an essential oil in the spirit is adopted, lare should be taken that the oil is pale and j ew; or, at least, has not been much exposed jo the air; as in that case it would contain ;esin, which would make the perfumed spirit, ir essence, liable to stain delicate articles of [lothing to which it may be applied. Most of |he ‘EAUX’ and ‘esprits’ of the perfumers I re prepared by one or other of the above me- ihods. It is found, however, that the per- Jumed spirits of some of the more delicate \owers cannot be well obtained by either in- usion or distillation, or by the simple solution 1 f their essential oils in spirit; or, at least, I hey are not usually so prepared by the foreign ■erfumers. The spirits of orange flowers, ASMIN, TUBEROSE, JONQUILLE, ROSES, and of ome other flowers, and of cassia, vanilla, u\, are commonly prepared by digesting pure cctified spirit for 3 or 4 days on half its i^eight of the respective pommades or oils, ob- ained by infusion or contact. The operation ^ performed in a closed vessel placed in a mter bath, and frequent agitation is employed ir 3 or 4 days, when the perfumed spirit is iecanted into a second digester, containing a jike quantity of oil to the first. The whole jirocess is repeated a second and a third time, fter which the spirit is allowed to settle and i then decanted. It now forms the most fra- ;rant and perfect odoriferous spirit (extrait) if the Continental perfumer. The product is ''ailed ‘esprit’ or ‘extrait of the first NFUSION.’ The three portions of oil are then reated again with fresh spirit in the same aanucr, and thus spirits or essences of inferior lUality are obtained, which are distinguished ly the perfumers as No. 2, 3, 4, &c., or ‘ ESPRITS’ or ‘ EXTEAITS OF THE FIRST, SECOND, THIRD, &c.,’ operation or infusion. In some, though only a very few cases, the spirits are afterwards distilled. The strength of the spirit for the concen- trated essences should not be less than 56 o. p. (sp. gr. -8376); that for eaux, esprits, and EXTRAITS, not less than 35 o. p. (sp. gr. •8723). The strength of the second quality of the last three must be fully proof (sp. gr. -920). See Alcohol, Distillation, Essence, Oils, PoMMADE, &c. and below. Eau d’Ambre Royale. [Fr.] From essences of ambergris and music, of each, 1 fi. oz.; spirit of ambrette and orange-flower water, of each, 1 pint; rectified spirit, 1 quart; mix. Eau d’Ange. [Fr.] Yxova flowering tops of myrtle (bruised), 1^ lb.; rectified spirit, 7 pints; water, 3 pints; digest a week, add of common salt, 2 lb., and distil 1 gall. Eau d’Arquebusade. [Fr.] See page 1228. Eau de Bouquet. [Fr.] From spirits of rose- mary and essence of violets, of each, 1 fi. oz.; essences of bergamot and jasmin, of each, 1 fi. dr.; oils of verbena and lavender, of each, ^ fi. dr.; orange-flower water, 1 fl. oz.; eau de rose, ^ pint; rectified spirit, 1 quart; mix. Eau de Bouquet de Flore. [Fr.] From spirits of rosemary and roses and essence of violets, of each, ^ fl. oz.; oil of cedra and essence of ambergris, of each, 1 fl. dr.; orange- flower water, 5 fl. oz.; rectified spirit, 1 pint. Eau des Carmes. [Fr.] See Spirit of Balm {page 1228). Eau de Cologne. [Fr.] Syn. Cologne water; Aqua Coloniensis, A. c. spiritu- OSA, Spiritus Coloniensis, L. For the pro- duction of good Eau de Cologne it is abso- lutely essential that the spirit be of the purest description, both tasteless and scentless, and that the oils be not only genuine, but recently distilled, as old oils are less odorous, and con- tain a considerable quantity of resin and cam- phor, which prove injurious. When flowers and the flowering tops of plants are ordered, it is also necessary that they be either fresh gathered or well preserved, without drying them. To produce an article of the finest quality, distillation should be had recourse to. A very excellent eau de Cologne may, how- ever, be produced by simple solution of the oils or essences in the spirit, provided they be neiv, pale coloured, and pure. The mass of the eau de Cologne prepared in England, some of which possesses the most delicate fragrance, and is nearly equal to the best imported, is made without distillation. In the shops two kinds of this article are generally kept—French and German. That prepared by Farina of Cologne is esteemed the best, and is preferred in the fashionable world. Prep. 1. From essences of bergamot and lemon, of each, 1 fl. dr.; oil of orange, ^ dr.; oil of neroli, 20 drops; oil of rosemary, 10 drops; essences of ambergris and musk, of eacli, 1 drop; rectified spirit, ^ pint; mix.