ARSENIOUS ACID. 219 . j cork (e) when the stop-cock (d) is open. By \ j closing the stop-cock, the liberated gas I forces the liquid out of the lower orifice of ^ I (b) into (a), and arrests its further generation, I leaving the latter under the control of the »i operator. It is, however, worthy of remark, j lthat, with ordinary care and skill, a simple r\ wide-mouthed bottle, furnished with a tube and I cock, will often be found to answer quite as ,! well, or better, than more costly apparatus; as • I the fluid is less liable to froth than in a narrow . tube. Even a common quinine-phial, or a 4-oz. or 6-oz, medicine-phial, fitted with a piece of glass- tube of verg small bore, or even with a piece of a common tobacco-pipe, for a burner, (see engr.) may be used when no more convenient instrument is at hand. Objec., precau., 8fc. Ob- jections have been raised to this mode of testing, from the great frothing which often occurs with organic mixtures, and from antimony and imperfectly charred organic matter also forming crusts some- what resembling, to the inexperienced eye, [those produced by arsenic. But these objec- tions are invalid, because there are easy means ’ of purifying the liquid before testing it, and of discriminating between true arsenical spots or deposits, and false ones. Another objection is, that both zinc and sulphuric acid sometimes contain arsenic; but to obviate this difficulty, we have only to use them when perfectly pure ; and to test them by means of the apparatus l)efore pouring the ‘ suspected liquid ’ into it. Indeed, these objections apply with equal force to all those tests which depend on the produc- tion of nascent hydrogen. The precaution ne- cessary to success, and to reliable results—and |i very easy one it is—is to set the apparatus iwith simple zinc, acid, and water, and after it has worked a short time to test the evolved ?as for arsenic (as above) ; when, if no trace of [that substance is detected, the suspected fluid, tin which the organic matter (if necessary) has been destroyed by any one of the methods here- inafter pointed out, may be added, and the operation continued. Care should also be itaken not to light the jet of gas before all the jatmospheric air is expelled from the apparatus, is without this precaution an explosion may take place. A film of oil placed on the sur- face of the liquid tends considerably to lessen the frothing. The methods (c) and {d) of lising Marsh’s apparatus may be employed simul- [taneously with that described in (16); the l atter possesses the advantage of not requiring •onstant attention. Lassaigne’s and Ellis’s :ests are mere modifications and extensions of Marsh’s. See Nascent Hydrogen Test (below'). 15. Morton's Test. Two platinum-plates con- nected with the poles of a good galvanic bat- tery are immersed in the ‘ suspected liquid.’ The hydrogen liberated at the negative elec- trode is collected and examined in the way de- scribed in No. 14, &c. The advantage of this apparatus, if any, is, that it obviates the use of zinc and sulphuric acid; and thus prevents the introduction of arsenic by either of those sub- stances—an accident which, with proper care, need never be the case. 8usc. ^ (Morton). 16. Nascent Hydrogen Test. This includes Marsh's, Ellis’s, Lassaigne's, Morton's, and all other tests which depend on the property pos- sessed by nascent hydrogen of taking arsenic from its aqueous solutions. It was first noticed by Scheele (a.d. 1752), and has since been studied by Proust, Tromsdorfi*, Stromeyer, Gay-Lussac, Serullas, Davy, Gehlen, and a whole host of later chemists; but it was Mr. Marsh who first made known its value in toxi- cological investigations. Several modifications and improvements of Marsh’s plan have been already noticed; another, suggested by Berze- lius, and simplified by Liebig, Chevallier, and others, depending on the action of heat on ar- seniuretted hydrogen, is of great value. When this gas is subjected to a red heat, it deposits its ‘ arsenic,’ in the metallic state, whilst its hy- drogen escapes. The chemist avails himself of this property, by heating to redness a small tube through which the gas is slowly passed, by means of the flame of a spirit lamp with a large wick, when a characteristic ring or mir- ror of metallic arsenic is deposited a little be- (a.) riask containing the susj)ectcd fluid, dilute sul- phuric acid, and zinc. (b.) Small tube, at the one end having an almost capil- lary orifice, where tlie gas is inflamed. (c.) Spirit-lamp. (d.) Support. yond the flame, in the cooler portion of the tube. The apparatus used in this experiment may be similar to that figured in the engr. The plan followed in the laboratory of Giessen, is to heat the long tube through which the gas passes to redness in several parts, to pro- duce distinct metallic mirrors; and then to remove the tube from the hydrogen appa- ratus and transmit a very feeble stream of dry sulphuretted hydrogen through it, the me- tallic mirrors being at the same time heated by means of a common spirit-lamp from the outer