350 BRASS. gredients frequently vary, and success depends greatly on skill in manipulation, much must be left to the experience, judgment, and discre- tion of the operator. In all cases he must re- collect that a certain degree of ^ age ^ is abso- lutely necessary to give a high character to any spirit. Indeed, to ‘ age ^ in the one case, and its ‘ absence ’ in the other, may be referred the reasons why French brandy and British brandy, apart from mere shades of flavour, so materially differ. The production of 2l flavoured British spirit closely resembling French brandy, is a subject well worthy of the attention of the ingenious chemist, rectifier, and cellarman, as a matter of profit; and of the amateur, as affording an interesting field for useful and amusing expe- riment. By a process which the waiter of this article is about to ‘ patent,’ he has suc- ceeded in producing a sample of ‘brandy,’ from malt-spirit, excelled only by the finest ‘ brands ’ of Cognac, and vastly superior to the article commonly vended under the name in England, even by the more respectable class of houses. Car'away Brandy. A species of cordial commonly prepared as follows:—1. Caraway- seeds (bruised), 4 oz.; lump sugar, 2 lb.; British brandy, 1 gal.; macerate a fortnight, occasionally shaking the bottle.—2. Sugar,l lb.; caraways (bruised), 1 oz.; 3 bitter almonds (grated) ; spirit-colouring, 1 oz.; plain spirit or gin (22 u.p.), ^ gal. ; as before. Some per- sons omit the colouring. Cher'ry Brandy. Prep. 1. Brandy and cherries (crushed), of each, 1 gal.; let them lie together for 3 days, then express the liquor, and add 2 lb. of lump-sugar ; in a week, or two, decant the clear portion for \ise. 2! To the last add 1 quart of raspberry juice, and ^ a pint of orange-flower water. Both the above are excellent. 3. Treacle, 1 cwt.; spirit (45 u.p.), 41 gal.; bitter almonds (bruised), 1 lb. (or more or less to taste; cloves, 1 oz.; cassia, 2 oz.; mace- rate a month, frequently stirring. This is the article now commonly vended in the shops and at stalls for cherry brandy. Obs. Equal parts of fully-ripe Morello cherries and black cherries produce the richest cordial. Some persons prick each cherry sepa- rately with a needle instead of crushing them j in which case they retain them in the liquor, and serve up a few of them in each glass. The plan named in the first formula is, how- ever, that usually adopted. On the small scale, the fruit is commonly bruised between the fingers. A portion only (if any) of the stones in the cherries should he crushed, to impart a nutty flavour. See Liqueues. Ci'der Brandy. From cider and perry ; also from the marc of apples and pears fermented. It is very largely manufactured in the United States of America and Canada, where it may he purchased for about 2s. Id. a gallon. An illicit distillation of this spirit is frequently carried on by the farmers of the West of Eng- land. See British Brandt {above). Dant'zic Brandy. From rye, ground with the root of calamus aromaticus. It has a mixed flavour of orris and cinnamon. Guern'sey Brandy. Beet-root spirit flavoured. Lem'on Brandy. Prep. X.Freshlemons (sliced), 1 dozen; brandy, 1 gal.; macerate for a week, press out the liquor, and add of lump sugar, 1 lb. 2. Proof spirit, 7 gal.; essence of lemon, 3 dr.; sugar, 5 lb.; tartaric acid, 1 oz.; (dis- solved in) water, 2 gal.; turmeric powder or spirit-colouring, a desert-spoonful; as before. Sometimes milk is added to the aliove, in the proportion of 1 quart (boiling hot) to every gallon. Malt Brandy. See British Brandy. Or'ange Brandy. As lemon brandy, but employing oranges. Pale Brandy. This article has been already referred to. (See p. 347.) That of the gin- shops and publicans is generally a spurious article made by mixing together about equal parts of good brown French brandy, clean spirit of wine, and soft water, and allowing the whole to stand until the next day to‘fine down.’ If the flrst is 9 u.p., and the second, 58 o.p., the product will be 17 u.p. Any deficiency of strength is made up by adding a little more spirit of wine. Pat'ent Brandy. The article so much be- puffed under this name, by certain houses, is merely very clean malt-spirit mixed with about l-7th of its bulk (or less) of strong-flavoured Cognac, and a little colouring. Peach Brandy. From peaches, by fermen- tation and distillation. Much used in the United States, where peaches are very plenti- ful, and consequently cheap. A cordial spirit under the same name is prepared as follows:—■ 1. From peaches, sliced and steeped in twice their weight of British brandy or malt- spirit, as in making cherry brandy. 2. Bitter almonds (bruised), 3 oz.; proof spirit (pale), 10 gal.; water, 3 gal.; sugar, 5 or 6 lb.; orange-flower water, ^ a pint; ma- cerate for 14 days. Add brandy-colouring, if required darker. Rais'in Brandy (ra'zn). See Spirit (Raisin). Rasp'berry Brandy (raz'-). From rasp- berries, as directed under Cherry brandy. Sometimes a little cinnamon and cloves are added. The only addition, however, that really improves the flavour or bouquet, is a little orange-flower water, a very little essence of vanilla, or a single drop of essence of am- bergris. White Brandy. See Brandy (p. 347) and Pale Brandy {above). BRASS. Syn. iEs, JE"eis metal'lum, L. ; Airain, Laiton, Chivee jaune, Fr.; Erz, Messing, Ger.; Br^s, Sax. A well-known alloy of copper and zinc. Hist. The brass of the ancients, until near the commencement of our era, was essentially