OLEOMETER—OLIVE. 1008 STEAKIX which has been deposited, and, after hltration, the spirit is removed by distillation at a gentle heat; by exposure at a very low temperature, it deposits any remaining stearin, and then becomes pure. Prop., S^c. The products of the last two formulse have only a very slight yellow colour, but may be rendered quite limpid and colour- less by digestion for 24 hours with a little pure, freshly burnt animal charcoal, and sub- sequent filtration. In this state the olein is perfectly neutral to test paper, does not in the slightest degree affect metallic bodies im- mersed in it, and does not thicken by exposure to the greatest cold. Olein is used by watch- makers for their fine work. Some years ago the product of the last formula was sold, by a certain metropolitan house, as ‘watchmakeii’s OIL," at Is. Qd. a drachm. Commeecial olein is generally lard oil. The refined oleic acid of the stearin works also commonly passes under the name. Olein burns well in lamps; but OLEIC ACID does not do so unless when w'ell refined and when the wick-tube is so formed as to remain cool. See Laed Oil and Oleic Acid. OLEOM'ETER. Syn. Elaiometee, El^o- jiETEE, Oil-balance. A delicate areometer or hydrometer, so weighted and graduated as to adapt itself to the densities of the leading fixed oils. As the differences of the specific gravities of these substances are inconsiderable, to render it more susceptible the bulb of the instrument is proportionately large, and the tube or stem very narrow. The scale of the oleometer in general use (Gobby’s) is divided into 50 degrees, and it floats at 0 or zero in pure POPPY OIL, at 38 or 38j in pure almond OIL, and at 50 in pure olive oil. The stand- ard temperature of the instruments made in this country are now 60°; those made on the Continent, 54*5° Fabr. The oil must therefore be brought to this normal temperature before testing it, by plunging the glass eylinder con- taining it into either hot or cold water, as the case may be; or a correction of the observed density must be made. The last is done by deducting 2 from the indication of the instru- ment for each degree of the thermometer above the normal temperature of the instrument, and adding 2 for every degree below it. Thus; suppose the temperature of the oil at the time of the experiment is 60° Fahr., and the oleometer indicates 61°; then— 60’0° Actual temperature. 54 5 Normal temperature. 5*5 Difference. Indication of the oleometer . . 61*0 The difference 5*5 X 2 = . . ll'O Real density .... 50’0 {Suppose the temperature observed at the time of the e.xperiment is 52°, and the oleo- meter indicates 45°; then— 54’5 Normal temperature. 52 0 Actual temperature. 2‘5 Difference. Indication of the oleometer . . 45 0 The difference 2-5 X 2 = . . 5 0 Real density .... 50 0 The oil is, therefore, presumed to be pure. See Hydeometee, Oils (Fixed), and Specihc Geavity. O'LEO-PHOSPHOR'IC ACID. An acid com- pound found by Fremy in the brain ami nervous matter. OLEO-RES'INS. The natural compouudsi of resin and essential oil forming the vegetable balsams and turpentines. Copaiba, Canada BALSAM, and Venice tuepentine, are exam- pies. Certain extracts prepared with ether, as the fluid exteacts of cubebs and peppek in the Ph. U. S., may be regarded as oleo- resins. See Exteact. OLEOSAC'CHARUM. Syn. El^osaccha- EUM. Sugar aromatized or medicated by being rubbed up with an essential oil. The OLEOSACCHAEA OF ANISEED, CAEAWAY, CIX- NAMON, PEPPEEMINT, PENNYEOYAL, and the other like essential oils, are made by rubbing 15 to 20 drops of the respective oils with while sugar, 1 oz.—The Ph. Graeca 1837 prescribes 1 part of oil to 20 parts of sugar.—The Ph. Austr. 1836 and Ph. Bor. order the same pro- portions, or 3 drops of oil to the dr., and 21 drops to the oz., of powdered sugar. When intended for making extempoeaneous dis- tilled WATEES, 1 dr. of magnesia is a common addition. The oleosaCchaea of citkons, LEMONS, OEANGES, &c., are made from the peels, as follows:—After cleaning off any specks in the outer rind of the fruit, rub a large piece of loaf sugar on it until the yellow rind is completely removed. Those parts of the sugar which are impregnated with the essence are, from time to time, to be cut away with a knife, and put into an earthen pot. The w'hole being thus taken off, the sugared essence (oleosacchaeum) is to be closely pressed down in the pot, tied over with bladder, and preserved in a cool place for use. OLIB'ANUM. Syn. Oliban, Indian oli- BANUM, Feankincense. A gum resin ob- tained from Boswellia thurifera or serrata. R is stimulant, astringent, and diaphoretic. R is burnt as incense in the temples of India and in Roman Catholic churches. Afeicax or Aeabian olibanum is produced by Boswellia florihunda. (Royle.) This substance must not be confounded with the resin noticed at page 665. OLIVE. Syn. Olea, Oliva, L. The Oleo Europcea (Linn.), a native of the South of