469 COLOCYNTII—COLOURS. ; 3. (Falconer.) Chloride of barium, 1 gr.; 1 sugar candy, 1 dr. 1 4. (Radius.) Calomel and white sugar, of j each, i dr.; opium, 10 gr. j 5. (Recainier.) Oxide of zinc and sugar I candy, equal parts. 6. (Velpeau.) Trisnitrate of bismuth and i sugar candy, equal parts. 7. (Wiseman.) Acetate of soda, 10 gr. ; \powdered opium, 1 gr.; sugar candy, ^ dr. ! Obs. It is absolutely necessary that the ! ingredients in the above preparations should 1 he reduced to an impalpable powder, by careful ! trituration in a wedgewood mortar. For use, I a small pinch is placed in a quill or straw, and I blown into the eye previously opened with the i fingers. On the whole, they may be regarded as unnecessary preparations, and are unsafe, j except in skilful hands. I Liq'uid Collyrium. See Water (Eye), i Unct'uous Collyrium. See Oiktment (Eye). , COL'OCYNTH (sinth). Syn. Bit'ter ap'ple, Ritter gourd. Bitter cu'cumber. Peeled t COLOCYNTII; ColOQUINT'iDA, CoLOCYNTII'IS j(Ph. L. E. & B.), L. The decorticated I fruit or pulp of the Citrutlus Colocynthis (Schrad.—Ph. L.), or Cucumis Colocynthis I (Linn.—Ph. E. & 1).). It is an acrid, drastic [purge and hydragogue, and cannot be given 1 alone with safety; but, in combination with I other substances, it forms some of our most I useful catliartic medicines. I COLOCYNTH'INE. Syn. ColocynthTum, |L. The bitter, purgative principle of colo- (cynth. ; Prep. The aqueous extract or the pulp of . colocynth is digested in alcohol, and the itincture filtered and evaporated. The resi- duum is colocynthine combined with acetate I of potassa. By agitation with a little water, * Uhe latter is removed. It may he purified by ijrdissolving it in alcohol, and evaporation, as ■ before. , I Prop., S^c. A yellowish-brown, translucent, i 'resinous substance, very soluble in alcohol, I fless so in ether, and only slightly so in water. I fit is intensely bitter, and acts as a highly drastic purgative. It is neither acid nor basic. t COL'OPHENE. Formed by distilling oil of \\turpentine with concentrated sulphuric acid. I A colourless, viscid, oily liquid; with a high I boiling-point; and exhibiting a bluish tint by \ refiected light, i COL'OPHONY. See Resin. I COLOUR BLINDNESS. Syn. Dal'tonism. (|| A carious defect of vision, from which the eye 11 is incapable of distinguishing colours. It is of f I three kinds:—1. An inability to distinguish ' jany colour properly so called, the person being jonly able to distinguish white and black, light and shade. 2. An inability to distinguish (between the primary colours, red, blue, and I (yellow, or between these and the secondary or i t tertiary hues, such as green, purple, orange, (and brown. 3. An inability to distinguish ! nicer shades and hues, as grays and neutral tints. The first form is rare; the second and third fire common. Dr. George Wilson found that of 1154 persons examined by him in Edinburgh, 65, or 1 in 177, were colour blind ; of these, 21 confounded red with green, 19 brown with green, and 25 blue with green. COL'OURING. Stjn. Brandy colouring. Brewer’s c.. Spirit c.. Car'amel; Essen'tia Bi'na, L. Prep. Brown sugar is melted in an iron vessel over the fire, until it grows black and bitter, stirring it well all the time, after which water is added, and it is boiled to a syrup. Obs. Some persons use lime-water to dis- solve the burnt sugar. Care must be taken not to overburn it, as a greater quantity is thereby rendered insoluble. The heat should not exceed 430°, nor be less than about 400° Fahr. The process, for nice experiments, is best conducted in a bath of melted tin, to which a little bismuth has been added to reduce its melting point to about 435°; a little powdered resin or charcoal or a little oil being put upon the surface of the metal, to prevent the oxidizement of the alloy. See Caramel. COL'OURS. White light from the sun is of a compound nature, and may be decomposed into rays of difierent colours. Newton distin- guished seven primitive colours, namely, violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, and red. Sir D. Brewster is disposed to think that four of these colours are really compound, and that three, namely, blue, yellow, and red, alone deserve the name of primitive. The colours of natural qbjects are supposed to result from the power possessed by their sur- faces of absorbing some of the coloured rays of light, while they reflect or transmit, as the case may be, the remainder of the rays. Thus an object appears red because it absorbs or causes to disappear the yellow and blue rays composing the white light by which it is illuminated. Black and white are not colours, strictly speaking. A body is said to be black when it absorbs or quenches a large proportion of all the rays of white light falling upon it. A body is said to be white when it receives the white light, and reilects all the rays with moderate strength. Gray may be regarded as a luminous black, or dark white. The names given to colours are far from being satisfactory, for although many thousand shades may be distinguished by a practised eye, it is a question whether there are fifty names which would convey the same idea of shade to any ten colourists in the world. The names taken from natural coloured-objects, as indigo, violet, orange, lilac, amber, emerald, &c., are the least objectionable. M. Chevreul has devised an ingenious system of naming and classifying colours. He em- ploys only 6 fundamental names, which are those of the three elementary colours, red, yellow, and blue; and of the three secondary colours, orange, green, and violet. By the