650 FISH GLUE—FIXATURE. simmer gently until done.” (Soyer.) A fish is known to be sufficiently dressed by the flesh in the thicker parts separating easily from the bone. “ If a large fish, I generally try it by gently pushing a wooden skewer through the thickest part; if it goes in easily, it is done.^^ (Soyer.) When this is the case it should be removed from the kettle, as by soaking in the water fish loses its firmness, and becomes soddened. Sole, sJcate, and mackerel, are usually put into boiling water, whether whole or sliced. Fish for broiling should be well washed in strong vinegar, wiped dry with a towel, and floured before placing them on the gridiron; and the bars of the latter should be hot, and well buttered. (Rundell.) Fish iov frying should be prepared as for broiling, and the butter, oil, or lard, should be allowed to boil for a minute or two before putting them into the frying-pan. The latter should be perfectly smooth and bright, and the butter or oil in abundance, to prevent the fish sticking to it and burning. As the fish are cooked solely by the heat of the melted fat, to fry them in the highest perfection there should be enough of it to cover them. Butter or oil is the best for the purpose. To avoid loss, the contents of the frying-pan, after the fish is removed, should be poured into a clean jelly-jar or basin, and reserved for another occasion. The fish being removed from the pan, the superfluous fat should be drained from them preparatory to ‘serving’ them. When fish is divided into fillets or cutlets before being cooked, it is usual to take out the bones, and to dress, it vfxth force-meat, &c. In serving fish of the finer kinds, no other additions are required than melted butter and the ordinary fish sauces pickles. The dishes are commonly garnished with raw parsley, for the sake of appearance, but boiled parsley, chopped small, should accompany it. All kinds of fish should be served on a napkin. Caution. It sometimes happens that a fish- bone accidentally swallowed remains in the oesophagus, and occasions serious inconveni- ence ; in fact, instances have been known where so much irritation has arisen that death has followed. In such cases it is advisable, as soon as possible, to take of tartar emetic, 4 gr., dis- solved in warm water, | pint; and immediately afterwards, the whites of six eggs. The coagu- lated mass will not remain in the stomach more than two or three minutes, and the re- medy has been known to “ remove no less than 24 pins at once.” FISH GLUE. See Gltje and Isinglass. FISH SKIN. Syn. Shank skin. The skin of the spotted dog-fish or rough hound {chien de mer, Fr.), stretched, and dried. Used for polishing wood and ivory. Several other varieties of fish skin are employed in the arts. The dressed skin of the ‘ rousette’ (peau de rousette, Fr.) is transparent, and very beautiful. Cemented on green paper, and rubbed down and polised, it is used as veneer for fancy boxes. The skins of several varieties of Squa- lus are also used for both the above purposes. See Shageeen. FISH-SKIN DISEASE. Syn Ichthyosis, L. In pathology, an affection of the skin which derives its name from the surface of the cuticle suggesting the idea of the scaly skin of a serpent or fish. It is distinguished from LEPEA and psoeiasis, by the absence of deci- duous exfoliations, distinct or partial patches, and the constitutional disorder which more or less accompany those diseases. It is generally confined to patches in the armpits, and on the breast or chest, but sometimes attacks the face. The treatment consists in the frequent use of the w’arm or vapour bath and friction, the due regulation of the diet, and attention to such other matters as tend to improve the general health. “ The easiest mode of re- moving the scales is to pick off carefully with the nails, whilst the part is immersed in hot water.” (Dr. Willan.) In some cases this disease assumes another form (ichthyosis COEnea), when it is accompanied with the production of excrescences of an indurated character, somewhat like spikes or even horns. When it assumes the appearance of the first of these, it is popularly called the ‘porcupine disease,’ from the supposed resemblance to porcupine’s quills. Under the latter form, seve- ral very extraordinary examples have occurred in females of advanced age. “ Instances of ‘porcupine men’ and ‘porcupine boys’ are not uncommon at country fairs.” (Eras. Wilson.) The only treatment of the last is excision, and the entire eradification of the cyst or morbid secreting surface. FIS'TULA. This name is given by surgeons to a deep, narrow, sinuous ulcer, having only a small external opening, and usually showing , a great indisposition to heal. A sinus of this, kind by the side of the rectum is called ‘ fis- tula IN ANO;’ when it occurs in the peri- ngeum, it is called ‘ FISTULA IN PEEiNm’ The last is generally the result of neglected or mistreated stricture. An ulcerated opening in • the lachrymal sac is termed ‘ fistula lachby- MALis.’ Their treatment is purely surgical. FIVE GEMS. In ancient medicine, and among the superstitious at less remote periods, various medicinal and magical virtues were at- tributed to gems and precious stones. Tlie Persians believed that -wine drank out of an ^ ‘ amethystine cup ’ would not intoxicate, and the five gems (cornelian, garnet, hyacinth, and >« sapphire) were, by others, reputed cordial. FIVE HERBS. See Species. FIX'ATURE. Syn. Bandoline, Clysphi TIQUE, Eau collante, Fixateue, Fr. Tin; consists of any of the simple vegetable muci lages, combined wdth a little spirit, to pre serve it, and with a little perfume, to rendei' it more agi*eeable. Prep. 1. From carrageen, Irish, or pear moss, soaked in cold water for an hour or t'vc(j (