CUCUMBER—CUPPING. 494 cubeba” (Ph. L.), or Cubeba officinalis (Ph. D.). Cubebs are sthnulant, atomacbic, and aromatic, like the other peppers j they are also diuretic, and appear to possess a specific influ- ence over the urino-genital organs. Dose. 10 to 20 gr., in atfections of the bladder and prostate gland, and in gleet and leucorrhoea; 1 to 3 dr., in the early and inflammatory stages of gonorrhoea, in piles, &c. They may be taken in water, milk, or bitter ale. CU'CUMBER. The fruit of the Cucumis sativus. (Linn.) Used as a salad vegetable. It is somewhat indigestible, but when pro- perly dressed, with plenty of oil, it may be eaten without the slightest fear of evil con- sequences. The practice of pouring off the natural juice extracted from the cucumber by salt cannot be too strongly condemned. See Elateeium. CUD'BEAR. Syn. Peesio. A dye-stuff ob- tained from Lecanora tartarea and other lichens, by a process nearly similar to that used in making aechil. The lichen is watered with stale urine or other ammoniacal liquor, and suffered to ferment for 3 or 4 weeks, after which the whole is poured into a flat vessel, and exposed to the air until the urinous smell has disappeared, and it has assumed a violet colour. It is then ground to powder. Its use is confined to a few cases of silk dyeing, where it is employed to yield shades of ruby and maroon; upon wool it gives deep-red shades. The colours produced by it are very fugitive. Like archil, there are two varieties of this dye-stuff—BLUE cudbeae and red cudbear. See Archil. CULM. In mineralogy, a slaty kind of an- thracite, occurring in Wales and North Devon. The term is also applied to any im- pure, shaly kind of coal. CUMAR'IC ACID. Syn. CoumarTc acid. Obtained by the action of a hot, concentrated solution of potassa on cumarine. CU'MARINE. See Coumarine. CU'MIC ACID. Syn. CuminTc acid. Formed by the oxidation of cuminol, one of the constituents of oil op cumin. It is a white, fatty, volatile substance, insoluble in water, having but little odour, and crystallizing in prismatic tables. By distillation with lime, it is converted into another hydrocarbon, called CUMOL. CU'MIDINE. Obtained by acting on nilro- cumol with sulphuretted hydrogen, in a similar way to that followed for obtaining aniline from nifrobenzol. It is an oily liquid, boiling at 437° Fahr., and forming magnificent salts with the acids. CU'MIN. Syn. Cymini semina, Cyminum (Ph. L.), L. “The fruit (seed) of Cuminum cyminum’* (Ph. L.). It is carminative and aromat'c, like the caraway and anise. See Plaster. CU'MINOL. A colourless, transparent oil, of powerful odour. It exists with cymol in oil of cumin. See Cumio Acid and Cymol. CU'MOL. See Cumic Acid. CU'FELLATION. The process of assaying 1 gold and silver and their alloys by means of ,1 the CUPEL. See Assaying. CUP'PING. This method of topical bleeding » is performed as follows:— The skin being softened by means of a ' sponge and warm water, and the hair and other extraneous substances being previously re- • moved, one of the small bell-like glasses (cup- ping-glasses ; CUCURBITU'L.®), having the air contained in it rarified by being passed over the flame of a spirit-lamp, is immediately applied to the part. From the formation of a partial vacuum beneath the cup, the pressure of the air on the surrounding surface causes that portion immediately under the cup to swell, and the vessels to become turgid. When this has taken place, the cup is removed, and several incisions are instantly made by means of a ‘ SCARIPICATOR,’ an instrument containing numerous lancets, which, by means of a spring, make a number of incisions at the same mo- ment ; the depth of these incisions being regu- lated by means of a screw which protrudes or withdraws the lancets, according to the vascu- larity of the part, or the quantity of blood to be abstracted. The cupping-glass is now again applied. When a sufficient quantity of blood has been collected in the cup, it is removed by gently introducing the nail of one of the fin- gers under the upper edge, by which means, air being allowed to enter, the cup becomes detached. The part being washed with warm water to remove any clots of blood, another cup is applied as before, and the operation continued until a sufficient quantity of blood is withdrawn. Sometimes, especially when applied to the scalp, the cups fill so rapidly with blood as to become detached almost im- mediately on being applied. This method of J, local bleeding is frequently called ‘ cupping ^ WITH SCARIFICATIONS.^ When cupping-glasses are applied without the use of the lancet or scarificator, the ope- ration is called ‘ dry cupping,' and is much used to cause a .speedy irritation of the skin and reaction, for the relief of oppressive breathing, local pains, &c. To obtain the full benefit from this operation, the cups should be suffered to remain upon the part until they cause an exudation of a small quantity of ' serum, or a considerable amount of irritation of the part. Dry cupping has been found ex- tremely beneficial in poisoned wounds; as it acts not only by abstracting the poison, but also, by the pressure the glasses exercise on and around the part, in preventing the absorption of it. Obs. For the operation of cupping, a basin of hot water, sponges, and clean, soft towels, should be provided. In clumsy hands, cup- ping is occasionally a severe and painful opera- tion ; but this is not the case with the skilful operator. A good cupper does not exhaust much of the air in the cup before applying it,