CAOUTCHOUC. 391 a temperature so high is often reached as to occasion the melting of the rubber. This is particularly the case during the process of “dry kneading’^ with quicklime. A tube 2j inches in diameter, impactly secured, was sub- jected to a force of 200 tons. The result was a compression amounting to 1-lOth; great ; heat was evolved, and the excessive elasticity of the substance caused a flywheel weighing five tons to recoil with alarming violence. Mr. Brockedon slates that he succeeded in raising the temperature of an ounce of water I 2° in about fifteen minutes by collecting the I beat evolved by the extension of a small thread of caoutchouc. He refers this effect to the I change in specific gravity, and contends that I the heat thus produced is not due to friction, I because the same amount of friction is occa- sioned in the contraction as in the extension of the substance, and the result of this con- traction is to reduce the caoutchouc thus acted : upon to its original temperature. The edges and surfaces of India rubber are readily and perfectly joined by mere contact and intense pressure. On the small scale, the edges may be moistened with ether, naphtha, oil of turpentine, or some other solvent, or by long boiling in water, and immediately pressed tight together, and held in contact for some time. Elastic tubes are readily formed of India rubber, by cutting it into uniform slips of proper thickness, and winding them round rods of polished glass or metal, so that the edges are in close contact or “ overlapping.'^ A piece of tape is then wound round outside it, and the whole boiled in water for 2 or 3 hours, after which time the edges will be I found to be sufficiently adherent. A better L plan is to immerse the “ rubber” in a mix- r ture formed of bisulphuret of carbon, 95 parts, and rectified spirit, 5 parts, until it swells into a pasty mass, which may then be moulded into any desired form, or passed through the dye of a tubing machine. For chemical purposes, brewing, &c., vulcanized India-rubber tubing has now taken the place formerly occupied by the unprepared material. The once celebrated ‘^Mackintoshes’* are made by spreading two or more coats of a paste made of caoutchouc and rectified coal- tar naphtha over the surface of the stuff or cloth, and when it has become partially dry, pressing two such surfaces evenly together by passing the goods between a pair of cylin- ders or rollers. The articles are then placed in a stove room for the composition to harden, and to remove the odour of the naphtha. Of j late years, vulcanized or mineralized rubber (coloured) has been used for this purpose, and being spread on the outside of the stuff instead of the inside, forms an ornamental and thoroughly waterproof material. India-rubber thread is prepared by stretching it (previously cut into coarse filaments) to 5 or 6 times its length in boiling water or hot air, in which state it is allowed to cool slowly. This process is repeated again and again, until it reaches 16,000 or 17,000 times its original length, when it is glazed by agitating it with powdered sulphur, or French chalk. This thread is readily joined or “pieced,” as it is called, by paring the ends obliquely with a pair of scissors or a knife, and then pressing the clean ends strongly together with the fingers. When the coarse filaments from the cutting machine are simply stretched with the moistened thumb and finger in the act of “reeling” to about 8 or 9 times their length, they are said to be “ inelasticated,” and are ready to be made into elastic braces, elastic web, and other like elastic tissues and fabrics, in the braiding machine. Vul'canized Caoutchouc. Syn, Vulcanized India eubbee ; Min'eealized I. e. ; Sul'- PHUEETTED I. E. The discovery of the sin- gular action of sulphur and the mineral sul- phurets on caoutchouc was made by Mr. Charles Goodyear, of New York, in 1842, at which date the manufacture of vulcanized India rubber may be said to have commenced. In 1843, Mr. Thomas Hancock patented a process for vulcanizing India rubber in these countries, founded on that of Mr. Goodyear. A sheet of caoutchouc immersed in melted sulphur absorbs a portion of it, and at the same time under- goes important changes in many of its leading characteristics. So prepared, it is no longer affected by changes of temperature; it is neither hardened by cold nor softened by any heat insufficient to destroy it. It loses its solubility in the solvents of ordinary caout- chouc, whilst its elasticity is greatly aug- mented and has become permanent. The same effect is produced when sulphur is kneaded into caoutchouc in a masticator, or by means of powerful rollers, as well as when common solvents {naphtha, spirit of turpentine, ^c.) are charged with a sufl^cient amount of sulphur, in solution, to become a compound solvent of the rubber. In these cases articles may be made of any required form before heating them for the change of condition, technically termed, “ vulcanization.’* It is necessary, however, for this purpose, that the form should be carefully maintained both before and during the exposure to the heat. “A vulcanized solid sphere of 2^ inches in diameter, when forced between two rollers \ inch apart, was found to maintain its form uninjured. In fact, it is the exclusive pro- perty of vulcanized caoutchouc to be able to retain any form impressed upon it, and to return to that form on the removal of any disturbing force which has been brought to act upon it.” (Brockedon.) Caoutchouc combines with from 12g to 15g of sulphur; the quantity of sulphur added to the naphtha paste, should not, therefore, ex- ceed log or 12g of its weight. The temperatures for vulcanization by the common method range from 320° to 330°;