600 ETHYLE—ETHYLAMINE. sible, and preserved from the air, to prevent further oxidation. Formerly much esteemed as a tonic. Min'eral Ethiops. Syn. Ethiops mikeeal ; ^Ethiops mineealis, Hydeaegtei sulphu- EETUM CUM SULPHUEE, L. Black sulphuret of mercury, with excess of sulphur. Prep, 1. (Ph. L. 1721.) From quicksilver and sulphur, equal parts; triturated together until the globules are extinguished. 2. (Tyson^s.) Oxide of mercury (prepared by 1 decomposing calomel with an equivalent pro- portion of liquor of potassa to which a little j liquor of ammonia has been added) and flowers j of sulphur, equal parts, triturated together. This is recommended as an efficient substitute for the old and uncertain preparation com- monly sold under the name of Ethiops mineral. It is, however, of more than double the usual strength, and should therefore be taken in proportionate doses. See Meecuey (Sul- phuret). Plummer’s Ethiops. See Antimonial Ethiops {above). Veg'etable Ethiops. Syn. iExHiops vegeta- BILIS, PULTIS QUEECus MAEiNiE, L. Bladder wrack (Fucus vesiculosus), burned in a close vessel till it becomes black and friable. Used in bronchocele, scrofula, &c. Like burnt sponge, it owes its virtues to the presence of a very minute quantity of iodine. Dose. 20 gr. to 1 dr., or more, made into an electuary with honey or sugar. E'THYL. Syn. Ethyle. The hydrocarbon assumed to be the radical of the ether-com- pounds (ethyl-seeies). a body containing carbon and hydrogen in the proportions indi- cated by the formula of ethyl, C4H5, has been obtained by exposing dry iodide of ethyl (hy'- DEiODic ethee) in sealed tubes for several hours to the action of finely divided zinc, at a temperature of from 320° to 338° Fahr. In this reaction the iodine of the iodide of ethyl combines with the zinc, and the hydrocarbon supposed to be ethyl is set free. On opening the sealed tubes and allowing the gas (which is a mixture of the ‘ ethyl’ and certain secon- dary products) to pass into a freezing mixture, the temperature of which is kept below' —9° Fahr., the ‘ ethyl’ condenses to a colourless, mobile liquid. Hitherto no compound ether has been produced from the ‘ ethyl’ thus pre- pared. According to the beautiful ethyl-theoey of Liebig, ethyl is a ' salt-basyle,’ forming * haloid salts* with chlorine, iodine, and bro- mine; its oxide is ethee, and the hydrate of i this oxide alcohol. The compound ethees I may be compared with ordinary salts in which i the metal is replaced by the radical ethyl. 1 See Ethee {above). ETHYLAMINE. Syn. Ethyl-ammonia, j One of the bases of the ethyl-series. j Prep. 1. Iodide or bromide of ethyl (hy- ; DEiODic or BEOMic ethee) is digested with ' an alcoholic solution of ammonia, until the | alkaline action disappears; the liquid is eva- porated to dryness by a gentle heat, and the wTiite crystalline residuum (iodide or beo- MiDE OP ethylammonium), mixed with poio- dered quicklime, and distilled in a glass retort connected with a w'ell-cooled receiver. 2. (M. Wurtz.) From a mixture of cyanate of ethyl (CYANIC ethee) and hydrate of potassa, distilled together. Prop., (jfc. An ethereal liquid, boiling at 66'2° Fahr.; it smells strongly of ammonia, and has an alkaline reaction. With the acids it forms neutral, crystallizable salts, analogous to the corresponding salts of ammonium. Treated with chlorine, it furnishes chloeide OE ETHYLAMMONIUM and a yellow liquid (bichloeethylamine), the fumes of which rapidly excite tears. With bichloride of pla- tinum, ethylamine produces a salt crystallizing in golden scales, which are rather soluble in w'ater. Biethylamine. Syn. Biethyl-ammonia. Prep. A mixture of solution of ethylamine and bromic ether, heated for several hours in a sealed glass tube, solidifies to a crystalline mass (bEOMIDE op BIETHYLAMMONIUM),which when distilled with potassa, yields this body. It is a colourless liquid, soluble in water, and very alkaline. It boils at 135‘5° Fahr., and forms beautiful crystallizable salts with the acids. A solution of its chloride (chloeide OP biethyl-ammonium) furnishes with bi- chloride of platinum a very soluble double salt, crystallizing in orange-red grains. Triethylamine. Syn. Teiethyl-ammonia. Prep. ■ By distilling with potassa the fibrous mass (beomide op teiethyl-ammonium) obtained by heating biethylamine with bromic ether in a sealed glass tube. This compound is a colourless, highly alkaline liquid, which boils at 195‘8° Fahr., and forms crystallizable salts. That of its chloride with bichloride of platinum is very soluble, and crystallizes in magnificent large, orange-red rhombs. The hydrated oxide of this base is an exceedingly interesting compound. It is formed by mix- ing anhydrous triethylamine w'ith anhydrous iodide of ethyl, when a violent reaction ensues, and a white crystalline mass (iodide op te- teethyl-ammonium) forms, which is dissolved in water, and its iodine removed by agitation with freshly precipitated oxide of silver; the filtered solution, evaporated in vacuo, yields a semi-solid mass of hydeated oxide op te- TEETHYL-AMMONIUM. The aqueous solution of this compound is bitter, alkaline, and caus- tic, and, as well as that of the iodide (see above), may be boiled without suffering de- composition, even wdien in contact with caustic potassa. In the dry state, however, it is rapidly decomposed by heat, pure triethyl- amine, water, and olefiant gas, being formed. It corrodes the skin, saponifies the fats, with the formation of true soaps, and exhibits the same reactions with the salts of the metals as hydrate of potassa. Its salts are neutral;