OILY EMULSION—OINTMENT. 987 ^together m a glass retort, and snbmitted to idistillation until a black froth appears, when |the retort is immediately removed from the 'fire {sand heat); the lighter, supernatant [liquor is next separated from the fluid in the receiver, and exposed to the air for 24 hours; lit is then agitated with a mixture of liquor \of potassa and water, of each, 1 fl. oz., or q. s., |and, when sufficiently washed, is, lastly, sepa- Irated from the aqueous liquid from which it has subsided. The formula of the Ph. L. jl836 is nearly similar. 2. (Ph. D.) Rectified spirit diVidi oil of vitriol [(commercial), of each, 1^ pint; as the last, lemploying a Liebig’s condenser, and a capside :for the exposure to the air; the oil is then Itransferred to a moistened paper filter, and [washed with a little cold water, to remove any jadhering acid. i 3. (Ph. D. 1826.) Prom the residuum in the retort after the process of preparing ether, distilled to one half, by a moderate heat, and the oil treated as before. 4. From rectified spirit (sp. gr. ’833), 2 parts; oil of vitriol, 5 parts; mix and distil, as before; wash the product with distilled water, and free it from adhering water and undecomposed ilcohol by exposure in the vacuum of an air- pump, between two open capsules, the one 3ontaining hydrate of potassa and the other concentrated sulphuric acid. Pure. 5. By distilling a mixture of ether and oil of vitriol, and treating the product as Defore. 6. By the destructive distillation of dry mlphovinate of lime ; the product is freed from ilcohol, &c., by washing it. This process yields the largest product. Prop., 8fc. An oily liquid, nearly colourless, aeutral, with an aromatic taste, and an odour resembling that of oil of peppermint. It is nsoluble in water, but freely soluble in both ilcohol and ether; boiling water converts it .nto SULPHOVINIC ACID, and a volatile liquid ?alled LIGHT or sweet oil op wine ; with an ilkaline solution, this effect is produced with wen greater facility. Sp. gr. 1‘05 (Hennel & Pb. L.); 1-13 (Serullas). Boils at 540° Fahr. ‘ Dropped into water, it sinks, the form of the globule being preserved.” (Ph. L.) Prod. 1’25 to 1*5§; 33 lb. of rectified spirit, and 64 ■b. of oil of vitriol, yield 17 oz. of this oil. I Hennel.) Uses. Oil of wine is reputed anodyne, but s only used in the preparation of other ompounds. See Spirit op Ether (Coin- lound), &c. Oil of Wine (Light). Syn.. Sweet oil op vVINE. See Etherin, Etherole, and above. Wood Oil (of India). From the Chtoroxylon Swietenia (l)e Cand.), the tree which yields he satin-wood of the cabinet-makers. Another wood oil (Ghrjun balsam) is obtained by ncision from various species of Dipterocarpus. This balsam yields about 38§ of a volatile oil ly distillation, which in its general properties closely resembles oil op copaiba. (O’Shaugh- nessey.) Oil of Worm'seed. Syn. Oleum chenopodii (Ph. U. S.), L. From the seeds of Cheno- podium anthelminticum, or Jerusalem oak {American wormseed). Light yellow, or greenish; powerfully anthelmintic. Sp. gr. *908. Dose. For an adult, 25 to 30 drops, in sugar, honey, or milk, night and morning, for 3 or 4 days, followed by a good dose of castor oil, or some other suitable purgative. Oil of Worm'wood. Syn. Oleum absinthii, L. From the herbaceous portion of Arte- misia Absinthium, or common wormwood ; green or brownish-green; odorous ; acrid; bitter; stomachic. Sp. gr. *9703 (Brisson); '9720 (Pereira); -9725 (Brande). Prod. Fresh herb {picked), i to § §; dry herb {a year old), 2 0 (fully); do. {recent), | to 1§ (fully). Pur. That of the shops is nearly always either adulterated or partly spoiled by age; hence the discrepancies in the densities given for this oil by different authorities. A speci- men of this oil distilled by Mr. Cooley from the green plant had the sp. gr. *9712; but after being kept for 12 months, it had increased to "9718. Nitric acid of 1‘25 colours the pure oil first green, then blue, and, lastly, brown. The positive character of these reactions is in direct proportion to the purity and fresh- ness of the sample. OILY EMUL SION. See Linctus (Emol- lient). OILY ETHE"EEAL Lia'UOR. See Oil op Wine (above). OINT'MENT. Syn. Unguentum, L. Any soft, fatty substance applied to the skin by inunction. The term is now commonly re- stricted to those which are employed in me- dicine. Ointments (unguenta) differ from ‘cerates’ chiefly in their consistence, and in wax not being a constant or essential constituent; and they are made and used in a nearly similar manner to that class of preparations. Their proper degree of solidity is that of good butter, at the ordinary temperature of the atmo- sphere. When the active ingredients eive pul- verulent substances, nothing can be more suitable to form the body of the ointment than good fresh lard, free from salt; but when they are fluid or semi-fluid, prepared suet, or a mixture of suet and lard, will be necessary to give a due consistence to the compound. In some instances wax is ordered for this pur- j pose. Another excellent ‘ vehicle ’ for the i more active ingredients is a simple ointment, ! formed by melting together 1 part of pure 1 white wax with about 4 parts of olive oil. I The use of the last excludes the possibility of the irritation sometimes occasioned by the accession of rancidity, when inferior lard is employed. In a few cases butter is employed to form the body of the ointment. Some ointments are made from recent vege- table substances by infusion or coction, in the