METAPECTIC ACID—METHYL. 910 acid obtained by decomposing pentachloride of antimony with excess of water. It differs from common ‘ antimonic acid' in being bibasic, and forming two different classes of salts with the acids. The acid metatitimoniate of ro- TASSA is the only reagent which yields a pre- cipitate with the soda salts, and is therefore of great value in chemical analysis. It is pre- pared by fusing antimonic acid with excess of potassa, in a silver crucible, dissolving the fused mass in a little cold water, and allowing it to crystallize in vacuo. The resulting crystals (metantimohiate of potassa), by solution in pure water, are resolved into free potassa and the acid salt. (Premy.) MET APEC'TIC ACID. See Pectin. METAPEC'TIN. See Pectin. METAPHOSPHOE'IC ACID. See Pnos- PHOEic Acid. METASTY'ROL. A peculiar substance into which styrol is converted by exposure, in a sealed glass tube, for about half an hour, to a temperature of about 400° Pahr. It is a transparent, glassy, fusible substance, which, by distillation at a high temperature, is again reduced into the form of liquid styrol. METHEG'LIN. Syn. Hydeomeli, H. yi- NOSUM, Mellis VINUM, L. Prep. Prom honey, I cwt.; warm water, 21 gall.; stir well until dissolved; the next day, add of yeast, I pint, and hops, I lb., previously boiled in water, I gall.; along with water, q. s. to make the whole measure I barrel; mix well, and fer- ment the whole with the usual precautions adopted for other liquors. It'contains, on the average, from 7§ to 8^ of alcohol. See Mead. METHION'IC ACID. Syn. Disulphome- TiiOLic ACID. An acid produced by the pro- tracted action of Nordhausen sulphuric acid upon sulphacetic acid; or upon acetic acid, acetamide, or acetonitrile, when carbonic acid is evolved. The product, diluted with water, and saturated with carbonate of baryta, fur- nishes a crystallized compound (methionate OF baeyta), from which the acid may be sepa- rated by the cautious addition of dilute sul- phuric acid. MS'THYL. The hypothetical radical of PYEOXYLic SPiEiT (wood-spieit) and the metliyl series. It forms a number of com- pounds analogous to those of ethyl. Chlo"ride of Methyl. Prep. Prom pyroxy- lic spirit, I part, chloride of sodium, 2 parts, and concentrated sulphuric acid, 3 parts; heated together, and the evolved gas collected over water. It has a peculiar odour and a sweetish taste, and burns with a pale flame, fringed with green. Sp. gr. I‘73I to air I. Cy'anide of Methyl. Prep. A mixture of sulphomethylate of baryta and cyanide of po- tassium (both dry) is heated in a retort con- nected with a well-cooled receiver; the dis- tillate is rectified first from red oxide of mer- cury, to remove hydrocyanic acid, and next from anhydrous 2)hosphoric acid, to remove water. It is an cLhcroal, aromatic liquid. boiling at 170-6° Pahr. See Sulphate of Oxide of Methyl (below). > Hy'dride of Methyl. Marsh gas. See Hy- DEOGEN (Carburetted). I'odide of Methyl. Prep. Prom a mixture of phosphorus, I part; iodine, 8 parts; and pyroxylic spirit, 13 parts; distilled together. A highly volatile, colourless, heavy liquid, in- soluble in water, and boiling at III° Pahr. Sp. gr. 2-237. Its diluted vapour is said to form an excellent inhalation in pulmonary affections and ulcerated lungs; it has also been recommended as an application to scrofulous ulcers. Iodine may be detected in the urine and saliva within a few minutes after smelling it. Beomide, fluoeide, and sulphide of METHYL, have also been formed. Ox'ide of Methyl. Syn. Wood-spieit ethee, Methylic e., Methyl-ethee. Prep. Prom pyroxylic spirit, I part, and concentrated sul- phuric acid, 4< parts, heated together in a flask or retort; the evolved gas (oxide of methyl), after being passed through a strong solution of potassa, is collected over mercury. Pro}}., (I^T. Permanently gaseous, colourless, inflammable ; it has an agreeable odour, which it imparts to water. The latter absorbs about 33 volumes of this gas. The oxide of methyl is the base of several compound ethers, of which the following are the principal:— Ac'etate of Oxide of Methyl. Syn. Acetic methyl-ethee. Prom pxjroxylic spirit, 2 parts; glacial acetic acid and oil of vitriol, of each, I part; distilled together. It closely resembles ordinary acetic ether; boils at 136° Pahr.; sp. gr. -919. It has lately been highly recommended as a diffusible stimulant, and as having a strong tendency to diminish expecto- ration in phthisis, &c. Chlo"ro-car'bonate of Oxide of Methyl. Syn. Chloeo-caebonic methyl-ethee. By the action of phosgene gas on pyroxylic spirit. It is a colourless, thin, heavy, and very volatile liquid. With dry ammonia it yields a solid, crystallizable substance, called ueetiiylane. Cy'anate of Oxide of Methyl. Syn. Cyanic METHYL-ETHEE. Proiu cx'ystalUzed sulpho- methylate of potassa, well dried, 2 parts, and cyanate of potassa, I part, distilled together. The distillate, which must be collected in a well-cooled receiver, must be rectified, to separate^ the very volatile ‘ cyanate ’ from the much less volatile ‘ cyanuret,’ formed at the same time. For'mate of Oxide of Methyl. Syn. Poemic METHYL-ETHEE. A very volatile liquid, formed by heating a mixture of equal parts of sxdphate of oxide of methyl and dry formate of soda. A very volatile liquid, lighter than water. Ni'trate of Oxide of Methyl. Syn. Niteic METHYL-ETHEE. A mixture of pyroxylic spirit, I part, and oil of vitriol, 2 parts, is poured upon nitrate of potassa (in fine powder), I part, contained in a tubulated retort coimectcd with a tubulated receiver containing some ice-and-salt, and surrounded with the same,