307 BENZOLINE—BEN ZO YLE. indicated :—2. A few drops thrown on a slip of glass, or a piece of white paper, should rapidly and entirely evaporate by simple expo- sure to the air, without leaving a stain behind, or evolving any disagreeable or foreign odour:— 3. Agitation with a little sulphuric acid should not discolour it:—4. It should not perceptibly lose weight or volume by agitation with a little cold water. Detec.—1. From the physical and other pro- perties already enumerated:—2. By convert- ing it into ‘ aniline’ and then testing it accord- ingly. For this purpose a little of it is dis- solved in ^ concentrated nitric acid,’ and the * nitrobenzole ’ thus formed is precipitated by the addition of ‘water.’ The fluid is then agitated with ‘ ether,’ to dissolve out the nitro- benzole, and the resulting ethereal solution is mixed with an equal bulk of ‘ alcohol and hy- drochloric acid,’ and a little ‘ granulated zinc ’ at once added. Hydrogen is evolved, and by its action the ‘ nitro-compound’ is converted into ‘aniline.’ The liquid is next alkalised with ‘potassa’ in excess, and the alkaline fluid agi- tated with ‘ether.’ The ethereal solution, on evaporation, leaves a residue (aniline), which, after the addition of a little water, may be tested with a few drops of‘solution of chloride of lime,’ wdien a characteristic purple colour will be de- veloped, provided the original liquor was ben- zole, or contained it. In this way very mi- nute traces of benzole may be detected. Uses, c^e. In its impure or commercial form, chiefly as a solvent for gutta percha, and In- dia-rubber; but it leaves they?rs/ in a spongy, friable state, and the latter glutinous or sticky, unless heat is applied to it for some time; also as a solvent in the manufacture of varnishes, as a diluent, in lieu of oil of turpentine, for oil- paints, as a material for the production of ar- tificial light, &c., &c. In the pure, or nearly pure form, it is largely employed in the labora- tory and in chemical analysis as a solvent of many resins,^ mastic, wax, camphor, fat, the fixed and essential oils, sulphur, phosphorus, iodine, several of the alkaloids,^ &c., &c. Under the name of benzine and benzine- COLLAS it has been recently extensively vended for the removal of spots of grease, paint, &c., from woven fabrics, which it does most readily and completely, without detriment to the ma- terial. As a source of artificial light it has been the subject of innumerable applications and patents. It may be burned in a ‘ w’ick- less’ lamp, provided a proper cap-burner be employed. Alcohol or pyroxilic spirit con- terated witli the naphtha obtained from the Torhaue-hill mineral or Boghead-coal, of which the sp. gr. is only ‘750. ^ Anime and copal are scarcely affected by it in the fluid state, but readily dissolve in its vapour at the point of condensation. * Particularly quinine, which it dissolves readily, but not cinclionine. Hence it is invaluable for the separation of them. It may be economically and conveniently sub- stituted for ether in the preparation of many alkaloids, with the advantage of being applicable in many cases in which ether cannot be employed. See Alkaloid (No. 3., p. 104). taining l-3rd, or even l-4th of it, burns with a rich white flame. Air driven through it becomes sufficiently inflammable to serve as illuminating gas ; whilst ordinary coal-gas by merely pass- ing over it yields a flame of greatly increased brilliancy ; but in all these applications the greatest possible care is necessary to prevent accidents. Its vapour has been tried as an anaesthetic in surgery, but the uncertainty of its action, and the irritability which commonly accompanies it, renders its use inconvenient and dangerous.^ See Naphtha (Coal-tar), &c. BEN'ZOLINE (-lin). Syn. Ama"eine; Ben- zoli'na, Amaei'na, L. a peculiar substance, into which hydrobenzamide^ (of Laurent) is converted when long boiled with a solution of caustic potassa ; the alkali being subsequently removed with water, either at once, or after neutralisation with an acid, and then crystal- lised from alcohol. Prop., ^-c. Small, colourless, prismatic crystals; insoluble in water ; freely soluble in alcohol; solution highly alkaline to test paper; highly basic, forming salts with the acids; pre- cipitated with ammonia from a solution of its hydrochlorate or sulphate, it separates as a white curdy mass, which, in drying shrinks greatly, and in this condition is rendered sin- gularly electric by friction with a knife or stirrer. It melts below 212° Fahr., and as- sumes a semi-vitreous or resinous condition on cooling. A strong heat converts it into am- monia, volatile oil, and pyeoben'zoline or lo'phine. BEN'ZONE (-zone). Syn. Ben'zophe'none (see below), Cae'bobenzide. One of the pro- ducts of the distillation of dry benzoate of lime, at a rather high temperature. In its pure state it may be obtained in a crystalline form; but is otherwise found mixed with various hydrocarbons, when it appears as a heavy oily liquid. BENZONI'TRILE (-tril). Syn. Cy'anide OP phe'nyle. One of the products of the destructive distillation of benzoate of ammonia. It greatly resembles essential oil of almonds in appearance, and exactly in its odour; is heavier than water, and boils at 376° Fahr. See Phenyle and Oils (Volatile). BEN'ZOPHE'NONE (-fe'-n5ne; -zof'-e-). See Benzone. BEN'ZOYLE (-zo-il; -z6'-). Syn. Ben'zoyl, Ben'ZYLE, Ben'ZHLE*, BEN'zOILEf, BEN'zOYf, &c. In chemistry, the assumed radical of ben- zoic acid and the other benzoyle compounds. It was discovered by Ettling, and subsequently studied by Stenhouse and others. For a scien- 3 Workmen constantly exposed to the vapour of benzole are very subject to nerv'ous irritability, and, where the apartment is ill-ventilated, even tits of nervous prostration and trembling, of a truly alarming character. In two or three cases wliicli we have seen, the symptoms, to the inexperienced eye, closely resembled those occasionally resulting from the long continued use of very miuuie doses of strychnia, or of the alcoholic extract of mix vomica. * With which it is isomeric.