SIMAROUBA—SKIN COSMETICS. 1202 When properly silvered, the metal should be well washed in hot water slightly alkalized, and then wiped dry. See Powdee (Silvering). 3. (Electko-silveeing.) This is described under Electeotype {page 547). SIMAROU'BA. Syn. SiiiAErsA (Ph. E. & D.), L. The root-hark of Simaruba amara or officinalis, the mountain damson. Tonic, bitter, and astringent. Dose. 20 to 30 gr.; in inter- mittents, obstinate diai-rhcea, dysentery, and dyspepsia. SIMTLOE. See Dutch Gold {page 707). SIN'AMINE. A basic substance formed, along with sulphuret of lead, when thiosina- mine is treated with protoxide of lead. It is very bitter tasted, has a powerful alkaline re- action, and, when slowly obtained from its concentrated aqueous solution, forms brilliant colourless crystals. SIN'APISIN. A white, crystallizable, ino- dorous, bitter-tasted substance extracted from the seed of Sinapis alba, or white mustard. SIN'APISM. Syn. Sinapishus, L. A mus- tard poultice. SIN'APOLINE. A basic substance formed, along with carbonic acid, when the volatile oil of mustard is treated with protoxide of lead. It is soluble in water and alcohol, has an alkaline reaction, and crystallizes in colourless plates. SIZE. Obtained, like glue, from the skins of animals, but is evaporated less, and kept in the soft state. See Gold and Gold Size. SKATE. The Raia batis (Linn.). Other varieties of Raia also pass under the name. It is a coarse fish, and is principally salted and dried for exportation. SKIN (The). Syn. Cutis, Deemis, Pellis, L. Every person must be familiar with the external appearance and general properties of the skin; but there are many of our readers who may not be aware of its pecu- liar compound character. The skin, then, al- though apparently a single membrane, is com- posed of three distinct layers or membranes, each of which performs its special duties:—1. The exterior of these is called the cuticle, EPiDEEMis, or SCAEE-SKIN. It is an albu- minous tissue, possessing no sensibility, and is found thickest on those parts of the body most exposed to friction or injury.—2. The MUCOUS ket, or EETE MUCOSUM, which is a thin layer of soft pulpy matter, which lies im- mediately under the cuticle, and is supposed to be the seat of the colour of the skin.—3. The DEEMA, CUTIS VEEA, Or TEUE SKIN, is a highly sensitive, vascular, gelatinous texture, the third, and last in succession from the sur- face of the body. It is this which, when the scarf-skin and hair have been removed, is con- verted by the process of tanning or tawing into leather. See Eeuptions, &c., and below. Goldbeater’s Skin. See page 708. SKIN COSMETICS. The simplest, cheapest, and most generally employed cutaneous cos- metics are soap and watee, which at once cleanse and soften the skin. Soap containing a full proportion of alkali exercises a sol at power upon the cuticle, a minute portk.of which it dissolves; but when it contai a small preponderance of oily matter, as the • q. cipal part of the milder toilet soaps now c ;it mechanically softens the skin and promot< ta smoothness. Almond, Naples, and Cas.e I SOAPS are esteemed for these properties id I MILK OF EOSES, COLD CEEAM, and ALl ,'D ! POWDEE (paste), are also used for a sii^ j purpose. To produce an opposite effect, id j to harden the cuticle, spieits, asteingj.'s, j ACIDS, and asteingent salts, are cornu Iv j employed. The frequent use of haed w iji has a similar effect. The application of se articles is generally for the purpose of strei li- ening or preserving some particular rt against the action of cold, moisture, &c.; s he lips, or mammae, from chapping, or the > di from contracting chilblains ; but in this res n, OILS, POMMADES, and other oleaginou. o- DIES, are generally regarded as preferabh Another class of cutaneous cosmetic; re employed to remove freckles and erup ii. Among the most innocent and valual of these is Gowland’s lotion, which has ng been a popular article, and deservedly s ‘’or it not only tends to impart a delightful ft- ness to the skin, but is a most valuable re dy for many obstinate eruptive diseases whic. re- quently resist the usual methods of treat at. Bittee almonds have been recommend to remove freckles (Celsus), but moistening jm with a LOTION made by mixing 1 fi. oz. o tified spirit and a teaspoonful of hydroc ric acid with 7 or 8 fl. oz. of water, is said do this more effectually. A safe and exc '.nt cosmetic is, an infusion of horseradish ii ‘‘Id milk. (Withering.) i Skin paints and skin stains are emj: 'ed ! to give an artificial bloom or delicacy 1 he I skin. Rouge and caemine are the aj leo ^ most generally used to communicate ''td i colour. The first is the only cosmetic aat I can be employed, without injury, to bri »n ' a lady’s complexion. The other, thougl o»- I sessing unrivalled beauty, is apt to imp i a ! sallowness to the skin by frequent use. Si CH ' POWDEE is employed to impart a whiti ^t, j and generally proves perfectly harmless, ’he I American ladies, who are very fond of paiing j their necks white, use finely powdered NESIA, another very innocent substance. Se- veral metallic compounds, as the teisnit TE» SUBCHLOEIDE, and OXIDE OF BISMUTH white, Fard’s white, &c.), caebonate of 'ai (flake white), white peecipitate, &c art frequently used to revive faded coraple: m • but they are not only injurious to the nn, but act as poisons if taken up by the absor it® Teisniteate of bismuth {pearl white] »w- bably the least injurious of these article been known to cause spasmodic trembli * j the muscles of the face, ending in par s'f; j (‘ Voght. Pharm.’) The employment of ^preparations containing sugar of lead, ach