185 ANTIMONY. Concluding Remarks. In ‘ roasting * or oxidising the native sulphuret of antimony on the bed of the reverberatory furnace, as in the common method before referred to, care must be taken to regulate and gradually raise the heat, which, until towards the end of the process, need not be extreme, and then only should it approach dull redness. Without this precaution much of the undecomposed sulphuret will be lost by volatilisation. During the whole time the ‘ charge ’ should also be well stirred with an iron-spatula, to ensure the constant exposure of every part of it to the atmosphere. The process is complete when the whole mass assumes a grayish-white ap- pearance. Earthen crucibles are commonly employed for the subsequent reduction, and after being charged and covered over with ground charcoal, are heated in a reverberatory furnace. The product is the crude metallic antimony of commerce. It is generally re- fined by smelting it with about l-8th of its weight of the refined sulphuret, and about 1-4th of its weight of carbonate or sulphate of soda ; but if there be much ‘ iron ’ present, more of the sulphuret—even l-4th—may be required; for unless there be sufficient sulphur to com- bine with the whole of the ‘iron,' the arsenic will not be oxidised, but remain as a contami- nation. When cold, the metal is carefully separated from the ‘ slag,’ and is frequently re-fused with a little fresh soda (1 to part) j after which it is cast into pigs, lumps, or ingots. The crude metal, thus treated, commonly yields 94§ of refined metal of tolerable purity. Should Head* have been present in the ‘ sulphuret ’ or ‘ ore,’ it remains after a second, or even a third fusion, although proportion- ately reduced in quantity; and it can only be completely separated in the ‘humid way.’ It is, therefore, always desirable to select an ‘ oxe* free from lead. See Alloys, Arsenic, Metals, Ores, Poisons, Sulphuret of Iron (Hydrated), &c.; also the various prepara- tions OF antimony both above and below. Ash of Antimony. Syn. Antimony-ash, Calcined' antimony*; Ci'nis antimo"nii, Antimo"nium calcina'tum*, L. Prepared by roasting the common gray sulphuret of an- timony on an iron plate set under a chimney, to carry off the fumes. The product is a mixture of teroxide of antimony, with some unburnt sulphuret, and a little antimonious acid. Prop., ^c. Ash-gray; emetic in small doses. Used chiefly as a cheap substitute for teroxide of antimony by the manufacturers of tartar emetic; also to make metallic antimony. Butt'er of Antimony. See Chloride of Antimony. Calx of Antimony. Syn. Calx antimo"nii, L. Sometimes applied to antimony-ash, but more commonly to crude, unwashed diapho- retic antimony. Calx of Antimony (Sul'phurated). Syn. Antimo"nii calx sulphura'ta, L. Prep. (Hufeland.) Calcined oyster-shells, 10 parts; '' sulphur, 4 parts; crude antimony, 3 parts; powder, mix, and calcine in a luted crucible for an hour. Emetic, resolvent, and altera- tive. Pose. 1 to 6 gr.; in gout, rheumatism, scrofula, &c. Ce'ruse of Antimony. Syn. Antimo"nii ce- RUS'SA, L. Prep. (Bate.) As diaphoretic anti- mony (over which it possesses no advantage), merely using the metal instead of the sul- phuret. An old preparation made by igniting anti- mony in the sun’s rays, by means of a lens, was called antimonii cerussa sola"ris. Chlo"rides of Antimony (kl5re'-idz). Three compounds of chlorine and antimony have been noticed by chemists; but only Hvo of them have been studied, and only one employed in medicine or the arts :— 1. Dichlo"ride of Antimony. Syn. Subchlo"- RIDE OF antimony ; PrOTOCHLO"RIDE OF AN- J TiMONY (?). A preparation mentioned by some writers, but of questionable existence. The name has also been applied to ‘ oxychloride of antimony.’ 2. Terchlo"ride of Antimony. Syn. Chlo"ride OF ANTIMONY, PrOTOCHLO"RIDE OF A., SeS- quichlo"ride of a., Hydrochlo"rate of A.*, Mu"riate of a.*. Butter of a.* J, Oil of A.f, CaU'STIC ANTIMONYf, &C.; AnTIMO"NII CHLORI'DUM, a. TERCHLORI'DUM, a. mu"rias, A. BU'TYRUM*, &C., L. ; ChLORURE D’ANTI- MOINE, Beurre d’antimoine, &c., Fr.; An- TiMON-CHLORiD, Spiessglanz-butter, Ger. This is the substance of which common chlo- ride, muriate, or butter of antimony, of the shops, is an impure concentrated solution con- taining free acid. It is regarded as a ter chlo- ride by those who adopt the atomic weight of antimony as given by Berzelius and his school, and as a sesquichloride by those who estimate the equiv. at only half that number. The same remark applies to the other compounds of antimony. Prep. 1. Solid, anhydrous :— a. Pure commercial tersulphuret of antimony, in coarse powder, 1 part; concentrated hydro- chloric acid, 5 parts; are mixed in a capacious stoneware or glass vessel set under a chimney with a quick draught, to convey away the fumes, the whole being constantly stirred, and, as the effervescence slackens, a gradually in- creasing gentle heat applied until solution is complete; the resulting liquid is put into a retort, and distilled, until each drop of the ‘ distillate,’ as it falls into the aqueous liquid which has previously passed over into the receiver, produces a copious ivhiteprecipitate ; the ‘ receiver ’ is then changed, and the dis- tillation continued, when pure terchloride OF ANTIMONY passes ovcr, and solidifies on cooling to a white and highly-crystalline mass, which must be carefully excluded from the air. b. From pure metallic antimony, 2 parts; bichloride of mercury, 5 parts; both in fine