SCARLET FEVER—SCENTS. 1189 jben dissolved, add of solution of tin (made by ssolving 2 oz. of grain tin in a mixture of \lb. each of nitric acid and water, and 1^ oz. I sal ammoniac). If oz.; boil for 3 minutes, ,en introduce the cloth, boil for 2 houi-s, , ain it, and let it cool.—b. The ‘ Rougie.’ lext, take of cream of tartar, ^ oz.; water, ! 8. boil, and add powdered cochineal, 1 oz. ; | aln boil for 5 minutes, then gradually add of of tin, 1 oz., stirring well all the time; l»tly, put in the goods and dye as quickly as Issible. The quantities given are those for I to li lb. of woollen cloth. The result is a ]// scarlet. To make the colour turn on the onceau’ or poppy, a little turmeric is added i the bath. 1 Obs. Scarlet is red with a tinge of yellow; [is nearly always produced by cochineal. See jED Dye. ■SCARLET FE'VER. Syn. Scarlatina, Fe- ;is SCARLATINA, L. A highly contagious jease, so named after the peculiar eruption efflorescence of the skin which accompanies The milder form of this disease (scarla- STA SIMPLEX, s. MiTis) comes on with lan- or, chilliness alternated by fits of heat, usea, vomiting (frequently), and other com- )n symptoms of fever; followed, on the ird or fourth day, by a scarlet efflorescence lon the skin, which, after three or four days, ds in the cuticle or scarf-skin peeling off in anuy scales. Dropsical swelling of the lole body sometimes follows the disappear- ce of the eruption; but this, with the fe- ile symptoms, and the soreness of the throat any), then give way, and the patient -gradu- y regains his former health and strength, the malignant form of scarlet fever (scar- TINA CTNANCHICA, S. ANGINOSA, S. MALIGNA) 3 febrile symptoms, from the first, are more .rming; there is bilious vomiting, great sore- ssand ulceration of the throat, the pulse is j all and quick, and the breathing laborious, ese symptoms rapidly increase on the ap- arance of the eruption; the body then he- mes swollen, the nose and eyes inflamed, the ,eath fetid, the throat suppurates, putrid mptoms ensue, and the patient is either Idenly cut off or recovers very slowly. The early symptoms of scarlet fever are dis- guished from those of the measles and j ALLPOX by the greater extent and want of ovation of the eruption, and by its not con- pgating into patches. Nor are there the pgh and running from the eyes and nose iiich usher in the measles. ;The treatment of the milder form of scarlet er, especially that of childhood, may con- t of the administration of an emetic, fol- y^ed by a saline aperient, to clear the bowels; i latter being repeated as occasion may re- tire. The patient should be kept in a cool ji well-ventilated room, the diet should be ht and farinaceous, and the use of diluent ' nks copiously indulged in. If the febrile ' Qptoms are severe, or the throat much af- fected, small doses of some mild mercurial, as calomel, mercurial pill, or quicksilver with chalk, may be administered, either separately or combined with antimonial diaphoretics or Dover’s powder. In malignant scarlet fever a smart emetic should be given early, and mer- curials and diaphoretics at once freely exhi- bited. Acidulated gargles may be used for the throat, and, when the heat of the body is much above the natural standard, sponging the whole body with cold water, or with vinegar-and- water, may be had recourse to. If the malig- nant symptoms run high, and assume a typhoid or putrid character, the system must be sup- ported with stimulant tonics, as, wine, bark, capsicum, &c. According to Hahnemann, Koreff, and Randhahn, belladonna is a prophylactic against scarlet fever.. The homoeopathists also hold it to be almost a specific in the disease. Scarlet fever is common to all ages of life, but children and young persons are the most subject to it. Unlike the smallpox, it occa- sionally attacks the same person more than once. It is most common in dirty, close, damp situations. SCENE'-PAINTING. A variety of distemper painting employed in theatres, &c., governed by perspective, and having for its object the production of striking effects when viewed at a distance. Water, size, turpentine, and the ordinary pigments, are the materials used for the purpose. SCENT BAGS. See Sachets. SCENT BALLS. Syn. Pastilles de toi- lette ODORANTES, Fr. These are prepared from any of the materials noticed under pot POTTRRI, SCENTED POWDERS, and SACHETS, made into a paste with mucilage of gum traga- canth, and moulded into any desired form, as that of balls, beads, medallions, &c. The larger ones are frequently polished. SCENTED CAS'SOLETTES. See Pot Poijrri, and above. SCENTS (Pommade). Prep. 1. (Cowslip.) From essence of bergamot, 8 oz.; essence of lemon, 4 oz. ; oil of cloves, 2 oz. ; essence de petit grain, 1 oz. 2. (JoNQTJiLLE.) From essence of bergamot and lemon, of each, 8 oz.; oils of orange peel and cloves, of each, 2 oz.; oil of sassafras, 1 oz.; liquid storax, \ oz.; digest, with warmth and agitation, for a few hours, and decant the clear portion in a week. 3. (Millepletjr.) From essence of amber- gris (finest), 4 oz.; essence of lemon, 3 oz.; oil of cloves and English oil of lavender, of each, 2 oz.; essence de petit grain, essence of bergamot, and balsam of Peru (genuine), of each, 1 oz. ; as the last. Obs. The above are employed to scent po- matums, hair oils, &c. 1 oz. of any one of them, dissolved in 1 pint of the st^pngest rec- tified spirit, pro(Kices a delicious perfume for the handkerchief. SCENTS (Snuff). Prep. 1. Essence of ber^ 1