ALKALINA—ALKALOID. I i calculate the quantity requu‘ed by the ‘ Rule I of proportion.* Every 53 gr. of the * dry car- bonate’ are equal to 40 gr. of * dry sulphuric I acid.’ Suppose, we find the oil of vitriol to i contain only 72g of ‘real acid,’ then— 100 : 40 ; : 72 : 55 55 i or, instead of only 40 gr., fully 55^ gr. will be required, which are to be made up with I water to 1000 gr., as before. Finally, the di- i luted acid must be very carefully re-tested, and ! if found correct, at once put into a well-stop- ' pered bottle, and labelled, for use. Too much care cannot be taken to ensure the test-liquid, 1 whether for alkalies or acids, being of the I proper strength, of which the specific gravity alone is an insufficient proof. In practice, so small a quantity only of test acid as that re- I ferred to above is, of course, seldom made; 1 but as any larger quantities are mere multiples i of the smaller one, the necessary proportions to be employed are easily calculated. The common plan is to prepare one or more gallons 1 or quantities of 10 Ih. each, and to preserve the j liquid in stoppered green-glass ‘Winchester- quart bottles,’ so that it may be always ready for use.^ I The general precautions given under Aci- I DIMETEY, respecting ‘shaking the store-bottle’ 1 each time before pouring from its contents {p. 36), and the mode of correctly ‘ reading ofl*’ the quantity of test-liquor consumed from the ; scale of the alkalimeter(j». 33), also apply here. I In reference to the quantities taken fbr the I assay, it may be added, that the smaller these p are beyond a certain limit, the greater is the chance of error, as any inaccuracy of either i saturation, or weighing, or in the strength of ^ the test-liquor, is multiplied by the mode of : observing or calculating the results. Thus, II an error of only ith of a grain on a weight of I 20 gr., is equivalent to li per cent. This 1 refers with even greater eftect to the method based on the weight of the evolved carbonic acid;—here an error of merely ith of a gr. will give a per-centage error of 2| gr., when only 24| gr. of carbonate of soda, or 31^ gr. of carbonate of potash are assayed, as recom- I mended by Ure and others. In the latter j| method, under all circumstances, we have i found the quantities given in the ffth column I of Table II., p. 99, yield better results in the i, hands of ordinary operators than any other; but those in the sixth column are preferable for obtaining the results in the terms of the ' pure alkali, when very great accuracy is re- i quired. These weights nearly correspond to : those generally employed when the method of Fresenius and Will is used in England. With weak crude alkalies, particularly very poor soda- ’ As may be inferred from the Text, sulphuric acid is I the one generally, indeed, nearly always used to prepare 1 the test-liquor. Pure crystallised oxalic acid is, however, ’ recommended for this purpose by Mohr; and answ-ers admirably. Pure tartaric acid is recommended by I Bucliner; but, though sometimes useful and convenient, : the facility with which its solution ‘ moulds’ and alters its i strength, renders it unfit for general use. 103 ash, the best quantities are those given in the last column of the Table ; and even these may sometimes be advantageously doubled, in which case the result obtained must, of course, be divi- dedhy two. In the common system, from 25 gr. to 50 gr. are the most convenient quantities, though any other fractional parts of 100 gr. (regarded as the standard), may be taken. In connexion with this selection, the Tables at p. 96 and 99 will be found invaluable; as will also Tables II. and III., on the acids, at p. 35, which are, indeed, merely the reciprocals of the former, and, by the mere removal of the decimal points, may be made to furnish corresponding ‘standard weights’ for the principal acids, whether the evolved gas be estimated in tenths, quarters, halves, or whole grains. It way be useful further to add, that speci- mens of SODA should never be taken for assay whilst warm ; as they will thereby frequently indicate fully 2g more alkali, than when the ‘ash’ has been cooled down and packed in casks. The common practice of many houses of disregarding the alkali present in the state of sulphuret, is, according to Dr. Ure, also wrong ; “ because as such it is effective in many processes of the chemical arts; in the manu- facture of yellow soap, crown glass, in the bleaching of linen and cotton goods,” &c. In conclusion, we may remark, that it was formerly the practice to reckon the strength of alkalies with reference to a standard termed 100 alkalimetric degrees, in a similar way to that noticed as employed for acids, at p. 37. This had reference to the per-centage of their weight in ‘ sulphuric acid,’ which was necessary for their saturation. On this system, a speci- men of pearl-ashes which neutralises 56-lOOths (56§) of its weight of sulphuric acid^ is said to be of 56 alkalimetrical degrees. This is Des- croizilles’ system of notation; but it is now obsolete. See Acetimetey, Acidimetey, Al- kali, Ammonia, Ammonimetey, Caebonates, Lithia, Potassa, Soda, &c. ALKALTNA. [L. pi.] Alkalies; a division in the London Pharmacopoeia embracing the alka- loids, ammonia, and their salts; potassa and soda being placed with the ‘Metallica.’ In medicine and pharmacology, the alkalies and alkaline earths, and their carbonates. See Absoebents, Alkali, Antacids, &c. ALKALINE (-Kn). Syn. ALKA'Liousf; Al- kali'nijs, L.; Alcalin, Fr.; Alkalisch, Kalisch, Ger. Having the nature or pro- perties of an alkali; impregnated with, or con- taining alkali. Hence the word alkalin'ity, or the quality or state of being alkaline. ALKALISA'TION (-za'-). Syn. Alkalisa'tio* L.; Alcalisation, Fr.; Alkalisieuno, Ger. The act or operation of rendering alkaline, or the state of becoining so. The corresponding verbs are al'kalise, alkal'ieyI, and alkal'i- SATEf. AL'KALOID (-loyd). Syn. Vegeto-Al'kali (vej-), OeOAN'IO alkali, O. BASE*; ALKA* LOi'DES (-dez; pi., -i'DES or -i'D.E, -de), L.;