422 CHARCOAL. stir in boiling water, 1 quart; and the next day wash it with fresh water until the wash- ings cease to affect litmus paper or a solution of carbonate of soda; then collect it in a cloth, and drain, press, and dry it; lastly, heat it to redness, as before. Used to decolour syrups, &c.; and occasionally by the distillers and rectifiers. It is inferior to the pharma- copoeial preparations, although frequently sold for them. 3. Pharmacopceial :— a. (Ph. L. 1851; Car'bo anima'lis—“e san- guine BOVINO IGNE PE^PAEATUS.”) A pure and powerful kind of animal charcoal, obtained by heating bullock^s blood until carbonized, and well washing the product. Used in the preparation of the vegeto-alkaloids, and as an antidote to poison. It is the purest and most powerful variety of animal charcoal. For Tests see below. b. (Ph. E. 1841 ; Cae'bo anima'lis puei- eica'tus.) Commercial hydrochloric acid and water, of each, 12 fl. oz.; mix, stir in animal charcoal (bone black), 1 lb.; digest, with gentle heat and frequent agitation, for 2 days; then boil, dilute with water, 1 quart, and filter through linen or calico; wash the char- coal which remains on the filter with water, until what passes ofF is scarcely (not at all) SiSeciedihy solution of carbonate of soda ; heat the washed charcoal, at first moderately, and then to (dull) redness in a closely covered crucible. c. (Ph. D. 1850, and Ph. L. 1836.) Nearly as described in Ph. E., omitting the “boiling.^’ Pur., Sfc. “Ignited with its own volume of red oxide of mercury, it is dissipated, leaving only a scanty ash,^’ less than ^igth part. (Ph. E.) “It gives off no bubbles (of carbonic acid) on the addition of hydrochloric acid; nor is anything afterwards thrown down from this acid on adding either ammonia or sesqui- carbonate of ammonia.^’ (Ph. L. 1836.) Concluding Remarks. Animal charcoal, how- ever prepared, if intended to be used as a deodorizer or decolorizer, should be kept thoroughly excluded from the air, as by ex- posure it loses all its valuable properties, and becomes absolutely inert. Freshly burnt char- coal is therefore to be employed whenever it can be obtained. Min'eral Charcoal. See Coke. Wood Charcoal. Syn. Veg'etable char- coal; Cae'bo lig'ni (Ph. L. E. & D.), C. yegeta'bilis, L. The residue obtained after heating wood without access of air to about 572° Fahr. It is extremely porous, and retains the structure of the wood from which it is derived. It consists essentially of carbon and of the fixed or inorganic matter which exists in wood; but if carbonization be imperfectly effected, it may contain a sensible amount of hydrogen. Charcoal-burning is effected in the open air in piles or stacks provided with a yielding cover, in pits, in closed chambers of brick or I stone, and in iron retorts heated externallv 1 like common gas retorts. The latter method 1 is only practised by the manufacturers of pyroligneous acid and gunpowder. 1. Charcoal poe Fuel, &c. :—The method of pile burning is that which is most exten- sively practised. Pieces of wood of equal length are piled concentrically round a sort of chimney formed by driving 3 stakes in the ground; those nearest the centre are almost vertical, and the surrounding pieces have a slight but gradually increasing inclination; a second row, and in the case of very large piles i even a third, may be stacked in a similar i manner one above the other. The pile is covered with turf and soil, and kindled by filling the space within the 3 central stakes with easily inflammable wood, which is ignited. The character of the smoke which issues from vents made in the pile indicates exactly the degrees of carbonization in different parts. When the charcoal is drawn from the pile it is extinguished by cold water, or if that is not at hand, by charcoal dust or dry soil. In some parts of Sweden the wood is charred in f large rectangular stacks, and in China the | method of charring in pits is practised. For [ details of these various modes of charcoal- | burning the reader is referred to Percy’s Me- | tallurgy. | 2. Charcoal eor Gun'powder; Cyl'indee C.:—The charcoal employed in the manufacture of gunpowder is burnt in close iron cylinders, and has hence received the name of “ctlindee CHARCOAL.” For this and other nice pur- poses, it is essential that the last portion of the tar and vinegar should be suffered to es- cape, and the reabsorption of the crude vapours prevented, by cutting off the communication . between the cylinders and the condensing ' apparatus; as without this precaution, on the ' fire being withdrawn, a retrograde movement of the product takes place, and the charcoal is much reduced in quality. Alder and willow are the woods chiefly used for making char- coal at Waltham Abbey. The Butch white willow, and after that the Huntingdon willow, are said to yield the best charcoal for gun- powder. The charcoal from the cylinders of * the pyroligneous acid {wood vinegar) works is ' also called cylinder charcoal, and is that chiefly ' used for chemical purposes ; but it is inferior ’ to that prepared for gunpowder. The reddish- <’ brown charcoal, called “ chaebonroux,” > lately used with doubtful success in the manu- facture of gunpowder in France, is prepared by keeping the temperature of the retorts below red-heat. It is said to be more explo- ' sive than ordinary charcoal. , ' 3. Charcoal foe Scientific Purposes :— The box-wood charcoal, employed in voltaic electricity, is prepared by putting prismatic pieces of box-wood, about 1 inch long by i ] inch thick, into a crucible, which is then filled with clean, dry sand, covered up, and exposed to a red heat for about an hour.