671 FULMINATING COMPOUNDS. roasted to blackness), 75 parts; lamp hlacTc, 12 parts; triturate together, &c., as the last. Obs. When the above processes are proi)erly conducted, the resulting powders contain po- tassium, and fulminate violently on contact with water. A piece the size of a pea intro- duced into a mass of gunpowder explodes it on being thrown into water, or on its being moistened in any other manner.^ Fulminating Bis'muth. 8yn. Pyeopho- EUS OF BISMUTH ; BiSMUTHUM FULMINANS, L. Prep. From bismuth, 120 parts; car- buretted cream of tartar, 60 parts; nitre, 1 part. Very rich in potassium. Prop., &fc., resemble those of the last. We have been assured that this is the compound used by the late Capt. Warner for some of his secret fusees. Fulminating Cop'per. Syn. Fulminate OF COPPER; Cuprum fulminans, Cupri FULMINAS, L. Prep. Digest copper (in pow- der or filings) with fulminate of mercury or of silver, and a little water. It forms soluble green crystals that explode with a green flame. Fulminating Gold. Syn. Fulminating AMMONIA-COMPOUND OF GOLD, AURIC FUL- MINATE ; Aurum fulminans, L. Prep. 1. Kecently precipitated peroxide of gold is di- gested in strong liquor of ammonia for 24 hours, and the resulting product is dried in the open air or at a temperature below 180'^ Fahr., care being taken to avoid the slightest friction lest it should explode. A deep olive- coloured powder. 2. From terchloride of gold, digested in am- monia, in excess. Brownish yellow. 3. From a solution of gold in aqua regia (made by dissolving 4 oz. of sal ammoniac in 12 or 16 oz. of nitric acid), precipitated with a solution of carbonate of potassa. Obs. This compound can only be safely made in very small quantities at a time, as without great care it explodes with extreme violence. This is caused by the slightest friction or sudden increase of heat. Its ful- minating property may be destroyed by boil- ing it in pearlash ley, or weak oil of vitriol; and by heating the residuum after washing it in water, pure gold will be obtained. Fulmi- nating gold is said to be sedative, antispas- modic, and carminative. Dose, to 1 gr.; in fevers, nervous diseases, colic, &c. It has been given in larger doses. Its use has “in some cases produced very serious, and even fatal results.^’ (Pereira.) Fulminating Mer'cury. Syn. Fulminate, Fulminate of mercuey; Hydeaegyrum fulminans, HyDEAEGYRI FULMINAS, L. Prep. 1. (Berzelius.) Mercury, 1 part; * 1 On ‘ electrolyzing’ a sohtlion of terchloride of aiiti- I 7iioti;/ (1 part tortar emetic in 4 parts of ordinary chloride of antimony), by a small voltaic buttery of 2 elements, vtetallic antimony forming llic +, and metallic copper the — pole, crusts of antimony arc obtained which possess the remarkable property of e.vplcding and catching lac when I scratched or broken. (Gore.) nitric acid (sp.gr. 1'375), 12 parts; dissolve, add, at intervals, to this solution, alcohol (sp. gr. ’850), 16‘3 parts; apply heat till the effervescence and cloud of gas disappears, adding, gradually, on the action becoming violent, 16"3 parts more of alcohol. Product, 112g of the mercury employed. 2. (Howard.) Mercury, 1 part; nitric acid (1'36), 12 parts; dissolve, and pour the solu- tion gradually and cautiously into alcohol of 80 to 852, i"! parts, a gentle heat being applied; cool, filter, dissolve in boiling water, and again filter; as the solution cools, crystals of the fulminate are dejiosited. 3. (Ure.) Mercury, 100 parts; nitric acid (sp. gr. 1-4), 1000 parts (or 740 parts by measure) ; dissolve by a gentle heat, and when the solution has acquired the temperature of 130^ Fahr., slowly pour it through a glass funnel tube into alcohol (sp. gr. ‘830), 830 parts (or 1000 parts by measure); as soon as the effervescence is over, and white fumes cease to be evolved, filter through double paper, wash with cold water, and dry by steam (not hotter than 212°) or hot water. The fulmi- nate is then to be packed in 100 gr. paper parcels, and these stored in a tight box or corked bottle. Product. 130§ of the weight of mercury employed. 4. (Ure.) Quicksilver, 1 oz.; nitric acid (1‘4), 10 oz. (or ft. oz.); alcohol (*830), 8*3 oz. (or I pint); proceed as last. Prop., <^’c. Small brownish-gray crystals, which sparkle in the sun; entirely soluble in 130 parts of boiling water, and deposited as the solution cools under the form of beautiful pearly spangles. “An imperial pint of boiling water will dissolve 67 gr. of pure fulminate.’^ (Ure.) It greatly resembles fulminate of silver in its appearance and general properties. It explodes violently by both friction and per- cussion, but unlike the silver-salt, merely burns with a sudden and almost noiseless flash when kindled in the open air. Obs. The formula of Dr. Ure is not only the cheapest, but the best and safest. That of Berzelius is more expensive and dangerous. There is “ no little hazard in pouring the al- cohol into the nitric solution; for at each effusion an explosive blast takes place; where- as, by pouring the solution into the alcohol, as originally enjoined by the Hon. Mr. Howard, the inventor, no danger whatever is incurred.^^ (Ui'e.) This preparation is used for priming the COPPER PERCUSSION CAPS for fowling- pieces, muskets, &c. Dr. Ure, in liis first reijortto the Board of Ordnance, recommended the use of a spirituous solution of gum sandarac, as the best substance for diluting the fulmi- nate, and fixing it in the caps; but in a subse- quent report to the same Board, he stated that a solution of mastic in spirit was to be preferred. At the present time “ the follow- ing composition is applied to the interior of percussion caps in quantities varying from *2 to *3 of a grain:—Chlorate of potassa, 26