BAGASSE—BALDNESS. 252 painters as size; also as a cement. Unripe fruit used to dye yellow. It is generally ad- ministered under the form of decoction or EXTEACT (which See). BAGASSE' (-gas'). [Fr.] The dry refuse stalks of the sugar cane as they leave the crushing-mill.— Used as fuel in the colonial sugar-houses. BAGG'ING. The cloth or materials of which hags or sacks are made. In agriculture, ap- plied to a method of reaping corn by a chop- ping, instead of a drawing cut. See Rats, &c. BAGS. In medicine and perfumery, see Sacctjli, Sachets, &c. BAINf (bane ^). [Fr., bain.~\ A hath. BAIN-MARIE. [Fr.] In old chemistry, a water-bath; also, sometimes, a sand-bath. In cookery, a shallow vessel containing heated water, in which saucepans, &c., are placed, when it is necessary either to make them hot, or to keep them so, without allowing them to boil. It is extremely useful in making sauces, warm- ing soups and small dishes, and when dinners are delayed after they are ready to serve. BA"KING (bake'-). Syn. Action de ctjiee ATI FOUE, Fr. The process of cooking, or of heating, drying, and hardening any substance in an oven or kiln, or by the rays of the sun; the art or trade of a baker X ; also technically, a batch or ovenful, or the quantity baked at once (= FOUENEE, Fr.). In cookery, baking is, perhaps, of all others, the cheapest, most convenient, and best way of dressing dinners for small families, where a good domestic oven is at hand. Though the flavour of baked meat is generally considered barely equal to that of the same parts roasted, there are some joints and dishes to which it appears particularly suitable. Among these may be mentioned legs and loins of pork, legs and shoulders of mutton, fillets of veal, &(c. A baked pig, if it has been occasionally basted, and the heat has not been too great, eats equal to a roast one. Geese and ducks treated in the same way are also excellent. A baked hare which has been basted with raw milk and butter, also eats well; and so do various pieces of beef, especially the buttock. Cooks tell us that this last should be sprinkled with a little salt for a day or two before dressing it, and after being washed, is preferably baked, along with about a pint of water, in a glazed earthen- pan tied over with writing paper ‘ three or four times thick.^ A baked ham is said to be preferable to a boiled one; to be tenderer, fuller of gravy, and finer flavoured. It should be soaked in water for about an hour, wiped dry, and covered with a coarse thin paste or batter. Ordinary dishes require similar treat- ment in baking to that given them when roasted. Much of the prejudice that exists against ‘ baking ’ may be referred to the imperfect manner in which it is usually performed, 1 Thus as Eug., in which, however, it is obsolete. In Er. with the -in nasal. arising either from the carelessness of the cook, or the defective formation of the kitchen oven; and also, in the case of the ‘ bakers,’ from so many different dishes, possessing or , evolving such various flavours and odours, being crowded together in one place, w'here some must unavoidably be ill-situated with reference to the source of heat, and all of them receive an insufficient amount of attention from the attendant. For domestic use, where the kitchen-range does not include a really good oven, the port- able articles known as a ‘ Dutch-oven,’ and an ‘ American-oven,’ form an excellent sub- stitute, admirably adapted for small joints, poultry, &c., all of which, when these utensils are skilfully employed, possess a delicacy and flavour fully equal to the same when roasted; whilst not more than one-half the fire is re- quired for the purpose. According to Miss Acton, they also “ answer excellently for deli- cate sweet puddings, and for cakes.” See Beead, Cakes, Roasting, &c. Baking Pow'der. See Powdees. BAL'ANCE [Ting., Fr.] Syn. Ba'lanx, Bi'lanx, L.; Bilanz, Wagen, &c., Ger. Balanza, Sp. Any weighing machine which acts by equipoise; a pair of scales. See Scales, Weighing, &c. Hydrostat'ic Balance. See Specific geavity. Tor'sion Balance. A delicate instrument, invented by Coulomb, for measuring the inten- sities of the electrical and magnetic forces. BALD'NESS (bawld'-). Syn. Cal'vitas, Calvi''ties (-vish'-e-ez), L.; Calvitie, Chau- vet4 Fr.; Kahlheit, Kahlkopf, Kahlkop- FiGHEiT, Ger. Primarily, absence or loss of any natural covering; appr., destitution or loss of hair, more especially of that of the top and fore-part of the head. In botany, absence of beard or awn. Gray hair and baldness dependent on old ■' age are natural consequences of man’s infirm- | ity, and must be regarded as evidence of fail- ing vigour, rather than in the light of a disease. Premature loss of hair may be in- duced by various causes. It is common after severe fevers, and is frequently caused by external pressure, friction, or violence, and by such other local actions and conditions which, when long continued, interrupt the normal functions of the skin. Persons with a con- sumptive, scorbutic, scrofulous, or syphilitic taint, or of a general bad habit of body, fre- quently lose their hair early. In these cases it probably arises from debility or paralysis of the cutaneous vessels, and the consequent in- .sufficient nutrition of the hair-bulbs. When it occurs in persons under the middle age, and apparently enjoying good health, it may be often traced to the pernicious practice of con- stantly wearing a hard non-ventilating hat, or to disordered stomach, habitual smoking cr hard drinking, irregular habits, or late hours. Excessive anxiety or grief, and intense study and thoughtfulness, also tend to promote the