BACKS—BAEL. 251 : in a brewery, distillery, or rectifying-house, is the water reservoir or cistern. BACKS. In the leather trade, the thickest and stoutest portion of the hide, used for sole- leather. BACON (ha'-kn). [W., haccun, proh. from Ger., bache, a wild sow; “ old Fr., for dried flesh or pork’'—Craig.] The flesh of svnne salted and dried, and subsequently either ‘ smoked ’ or not. The term is usually restric- ted to the ‘sides’ and ‘belly’ so prepared; ! the other parts of the animal having distinc- tive names. Sometimes, though rarely, the term is extended to the flesh of bears, and of other like animals, cured in a similar manner. Qual., (^c. When bacon has been properly 1 prepared from young and well-fed animals, and is neither ‘ stale ’ nor ‘ rusty,’ it forms a very wholesome and excellent article of food, espe- cially adapted for a light or hasty meal, or as a relish for bread or vegetables. It has hence i been always a favourite at the breakfast-table, and, as an ingredient of the morning repast, has frequently received the favourable notice I of the Faculty. For persons with a weak I stomach, and for invalids, great care should be taken to cook it without injuring its flavour, or rendering it indigestible. Tbis is best effected by cutting it into slices of moderate thickness, and carefully broiling or toasting it; avoiding dressing it too hastily, too slowly, or too much. The common practice of cooking it in almost wafer-like slices, until it becomes ' brown and crisp, renders it not merely indi- I gestible, but also a most fertile source of heartburn and dyspepsia. Fried bacon is remarkably strong, and is hence more likely to oflend the stomach than when it is broiled, or preferably toasted before the fire; the last being, of all others, the best way of dressing it so as to preserve its delicacy and flavour. 4 Gourmands, however, often esteem, as ‘ une bonne bouche,’ bacon dressed in the flame arising from the dropping of its own fat. Choice. Good bacon has a thin rind, and an agreeable odour; the fat has a firm consis- tence and a slightly reddish tinge; the lean is of a pleasing red colour, is tender, and adheres, whilst raw, strongly to the bone. When the fat is yellow, it is either ‘ rusty ’ or becoming so, and should be avoided. The streaky parts are not only those which are most esteemed, but are the most wholesome. Obs. Bacon has always been a popular ar- ticle of food in these realms; and in some portions of them has, perhaps, obtained a preference and more extensive use, than, from it being salted, is either economical or con- ducive to health. A vast number of the agri- cultural poor of the western counties scarcely taste any other kind of flesh. The curing and packing of bacon forms the chief trade of the populous city of Cincinnati, where it has proved a fertile source of wealth to both the factor and adventurer. “Dr. Baillie’s name, years after he had sunk into the tomb, proved a mine of gold to the fortunate projectors of the once celebrated ‘ medicated breakfast BACON,’ that professed to be capable of doing more good for the stomach and nerves, at 2s. 8d. the lb., than all the plebeian porkers had previously effected at 7id.”^ See Salt- ing, Pork, Putrefaction, Smoking, &c. BAD"GER (baj'-er). Syn. Me'les, L. ; Blaireau, Fr.; DachS, Ger. The ur'sus me'les (Linn.), one of the plantigrade carni- vora, a burrowing nocturnal animal, common in Europe, Asia, and North America. Since the extirpation of the bear, the badger is the sole representative of the ursine family in our indigenous zoology. Its habits are “ noctur- nal, inoffensive, and slothful; its food consists of roots, earth-nuts, fruits, the eggs of birds, insects, reptiles, and the smaller quadrupeds : its noxious qualities are consequently few and of slight moment, and by no means justify the extirminating war unintermittently waged against it.” (Brande.) Its “ muscular strength is great, its bite proverbially powerful; and a dog must be trained and encouraged to enter willingly into combat ” with it. (Id.) Uses, Sfc. The flesh of the badger is prized as food; the skin, used for pistol furniture; the hair, made into brushes. The American badger is commonly called the ground-hog. The Cape-badger produces hyraceum (which see). BAD'IANE (-e-ahn). [Fr.] Syn. Bad'ian, B.-seed. Star-anise seed. BADT'GEON (ba-dizh'-one; bad'-e-zhim];, or ba-dij'-un];—Smart). Among operatives and artists, any cement used to till up holes and to cover defects in their work. Among statuaries, a mixture of plaster and free-stone is commonly used for this purpose; among joiners and carpenters, a mixture of saw-dust and glue, or of whiting and glue; and among coopers, one of tallow and chalk. The name is also given to a stone-coloured mixture used for the fronts of houses, and said to be com- posed of wood-dust and lime, slaked together, stone powder, and a little ochre, umber, or sienna ; the whole being mixed up with weak alum-water to the consistence of paint, and laid on in dry weather. BAEL. [Nat.] Syn. Indian bael, Bel*; Ba'el, B. in'dicus, Be'la, B. in'dica, L. The (sgle marmelos (Correa; cratceva m., Linn.), one of the Aurantiacese (DC.). Dried half-ripe fruit imported from the E. I., under the name of Indian bael. Astringent and re- frigerant; highly extolled in chronic dysen- tery, diarrhoea, English cholera, and relaxa- tions generally. It is also used in bilious fevers, hypochondriasis, melancholia, &c. Root- bark, stern-bark, and expressed juice of the leaves, particularly the first, also used in the same cases in India. Ripe fruit, fragrant and delicious; used, in the E. I., as a warm cathar- tic, and regarded as a certain cure for habit- ual costiveness. Mucus of the seeds used by 1 “ Anat. of Quaciccry.”