I REFRIGERATION. lied 250 times, the surface of evaporation Avas poled down 120° in winter; and when only |0 times, a depression of 80° or even 100° jOok place. “ Sulphuric acid is capable of ;ongealing more than 20 times its weight of ^'ater before it has imbibed nearly its own ulk of that liquid, or has lost about |th of its efrigerating power.” (Ure.) Sulphuric acid, |diich has become diluted in this way, may be econcentrated by heat. Any substance having great tendency to absorb moisture may be ibstituted for the sulphuric acid. Fused hloride of calcium, quicklime, nitrate of mag- fsia, chloride of zinc, and oatmeal (dried Jearly to brownness before a common fire), ave been used for this purpose. Again, in- pad of employing an air-pump, a vacuum ay be produced by the agency of steam, I'terwards condensed by the afiusion of cold ater. A pleasing philosophical toy, illustrative of le evaporative power of a vacuum, is the JETOPHOEUS,’ or ‘ PEOST-BEAEEE,’ of Dr. ’’ollaston. This instrument consists of two aall glass globes, united by a tube, one of which partly filled with water. The whole appa- tus is perfectly free from air, and is, con- quently, filled with attenuated aqueous va- urs. No sooner is the pressure removed. 6 I by plunging the empty ball into a freezing |xture (which condenses the vapour), than jOid evaporation commences, and the water the other ball is frozen in two or three nutes. Even in hot climates ice may be produced der favourable circumstances by evapora- n. On the open plains, near Calcutta, this 2ftected by exposing a thin stratum of water the atmosphere, during the fine clear nights ' December, January, and February. The ;is are made of porous earthenware, and ter is poured in to the depth of about 1^ h. A large number of these vessels are 1 anged in an excavation in the ground, 30' 1167 or 40 feet square and 2 feet deep, the bottom of which is covered, to the depth of 10 or 12 inches, with sugar canes or the stalks of Indian corn. At sunrise the pans are visited, the ice separated from the water, and packed as tight as possible in a deep cavity or pit, well screened from the heat. Several machines have recently been in- vented by which water is frozen in large quantities, by exposure to condensed air in the act of its subsequent expansion. They are worked by either hand or steam power. The refrigerating apparatus invented by Mr. Kirk, of the Bathgate Paraffin Works, acts on this principle; and it does its work so effici- ently that it produces a cooling effect equivalent to two tons of ice every twenty-four hours, at a very small expenditure of fuel. A small model worked by hand will readily freeze mer- cury. Kirk’s apparatus is used at Bathgate to cause the crystallization of solid paraffin from the heavy paraffin oils (see page 967). Formerly, a machine acting by the evaporation of ether was employed for the same purpose. For the production of an extremely low temperature, such as is required for the lique- faction of some gases, Faraday employed solid carbonic acid mixed with a little ether (see page 845). In the production of ice, or an extreme degree of cold, by saline mixtures, the salts should be in the crystallized state, and as rich as possible in water, but without being in the least damp. They should also be coarsely pulverized at the time of using them, and should not be mixed until immediately before throwing them into the liquid ingredients. The mixture should be made in a thick vessel, w"ell-clothed, to prevent the accession of ex- ternal heat; and the substance to be acted on should be contained in a very thin vessel, so as to expose it more fully to the action of the mixture. On the large scale, a vessel called a ‘FEEEZING pot’ 01’ ‘SABOTIEKE,’ is commonly employed. The following table, though founded on experiments made more than 50 years ago by Mr. Walker, gives full and accu- rate information on the subject of freezing mixtures;— fABLE exhibiting a few of the most useful Feigoeific Mixtebes. Dratvn up from actual ' experiments performed by Mr. Walkee. Ingredients. Thermometer sinks. Deg. of cold produced. < Snow or pounded ice . . iJ parts ■) to — 5° - (Chloride of sodium . . 1 „ i 9 i r Snow or pounded ice . . 5 „ S to — 12° < Chloride of sodium . -2 J — CSiil ammoniac .... . 1 „ ) ^ 1 If ! 1 r Snow or pounded ice . .12 „ to — 25° Cliloride of sodium . 5 „ f ^ 1 L — CNitrate of ammonia . . 6 „ ) CSnow (Ilydrocliloric acid {concentrated) • 8 „ ■) . 5 „ i From -1- 32® to — ■27° 69°