MERCURY. 905 the latter salt only are deposited. The acid ^ solution (before evaporation) is used as a caustic in cancerous, syphilitic, and other ulcerations ; but it frequently produces intense pain, and occasionally the usual constitutional eflects of mercury. It was formerly given in similar cases to those in which the bichloride is now employed. Dose. (Of the dry salt) ^ to gr. This is the preparation ordinarily referred to under the name ‘ peeniteate oe meecuey.’ I c. By saturating strong nitric acid with mercury, by heat, throwing the solution into [ cold water, and collecting and drying the pre- I cipitate. This salt, which is probably tribasic, is also formed when the preceding crystallized salts are put into hot water. Obs. This last preparation is a heavy, yellow I powder, but the shade varies according to its ' basicity, which increases with the temperature of the water employed to effect the precipita-1 tion, until, at the boiling temperature, the colour is a dull red. It is extensively em- ployed for the extemporaneous preparation of the OINTMENT OF NITEATE OF MEECUEY, ac- cording to the formula on the following label which accompanies each bottle :—“ Hydeaeg. SUBNITEAS.” “ Two scruples, mixed with one 1 ounce of simple cerate, make the ung. hydrarg. \ I nit. of the London Pharmacopoeia.'^ We need \ scarcely add that this statement, so unblush- I ingly uttered, is a dangerous falsehood. An j ointment so made possesses neither the quan- I tity of mercury nor of nitric acid employed j in the Pharmacopoeia preparation, besides 1 wanting many of its most sensible and valua-1 ble properties. j Nitrates of Mercury and Ammo"nia. Two I preparations falling under this head are em- I ployed in medicine, and are commonly known respectively as ‘ Hahnemann's soluble mee- cuey’ and ‘ Waed’s meecueial salt.’ Prep. 1. (Hahnemann’s soluble mee- I CUEY, H.’S BLACK OXIDE OF M., BlACK PEE- i j CIPITATE OF M.; HydEAEGYEI PE^CIPITATUM I nigeum,Meecueius solubilis Hahnemanni, I L.)—a. By dropping weak liquor of ammonia ! into a solution of subnitrate of mercury, as j long as the precipitate formed is of a black I colour; the powder is washed, dried in the ] shade without artificial heat, and then pre- I served from the light and air. j b. (Ph. Bor. 1847.) Solution of subnitrate j of mercury (recent; sp. gr. I’l), 9? oz.; dis- I tilled water, 2 lb.; mix, filter, and add to the j solution liquor of ammonia (sp. gr. *960), ^ oz., i diluted with water, 4 fl. oz.; collect the pow- I dor immediately on a filter, wash it with water, 5 fl. oz., and dry it, &c., as before. A , V(*ry black powder. Dose, i to 1 gr. 2. (Waed’s meecueial salt, Ammonio- ! NITEATE OF MEECUEY; HyDEAEGYEI AMMO- I NiyE NiTEAS, L.) To nitric acid, 4 parts, con- j j tained in a spacious bolt-head or matrass, add, I gradually, sesquicarbonate of ammonia, 2 parts; I afterwards add of mercury, 1 part, and digest j in a gentle heat, until the solution is complete; then gradually increase the heat, and add a little more mercury at intervals, until no more will dissolve; lastly, evaporate the liquid until a pellicle forms, and set it aside to crystallize. More active than the simple nitrate. It is the basis of Ward’s ‘ white deop.’ Ox'ides of Mercury. Of these compounds there are two, which are, perhaps, more clearly^ distinguished by names indicative of their colour than by their scientific synonyms. 1. Subox'ide of Mercury. Syn. Geay oxide OF MEECUEY, BlACK O. OF M., MeECUEOUS o.. Dioxide of m., Peotoxide of M.f; HydEAEGYEI suboxydum, H. oxydum, H. 0. ciNEEEUM, H. o. NiGEUM, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. 1836.) Calomel, 1 oz.; lime water, 1 gall.; mix, agitate well together, decant the clear liquid after subsidence, and well wash the sediment with distilled water; lastly, drain and dry it, wrapped in bibulous paper, in the air. 2. (Ph. D. 1826.) Sublimed calomel, 1 part; liquor of potassa (warm), 4 parts; triturate together, &c., as last. 3. Briskly triturate calomel in a mortar with pure potassa, in excess; wash it with cold water, and dry it in the shade. Prop., Sfc. A very dark gray or black powder, suffering decomposition by exposure to light and air, becoming olive coloured, from a portion being resolved into metallic mercury and binoxide. Digested for a short time in dilute hydrochloric acid, it remains undissolved, and the filtered liquid is not affected by liquor of potassa or by oxalate of ammonia. It is totally soluble in acetic acid, and entirely dis- sipated by heat.” (Ph. L. 1836.) As a me- dicine, pure protoxide of mercury is one of the mildest of the mercurials, and is used both internally and externally; but chiefly, as a fumi- gant, or made into an ointment. Dose, i gr. to 3 gr. twice a day. Ohs. The compound sold for the above in the shops has usually a dirty gray colour, and contains much undecomposed calomel. The beautiful blue-black or dark slate-blue powder, prepared by decomposing calomel with liquor of ammonia, or a mixture of the liquors of ammonia and potassa, as recommended by Mr. Tyson, is not pure suboxide of mercury, but contains variable proportions of the ‘ ammo- nio-subchloride.’ The old preparation, known as Hahnemann’s black oxide of meecuey, or H.’S SOLUBLE MEECUEY, is a compound of similar character. See Niteates. 2. Protox'ide of Mercury. Syn. Red oxide OF MEECUEY, MeECUEIC O., OxIDE OF M., , Binoxide of M.f, Deutoxide of M.f, Pee- OXIDE OF M.f ; HYDEAEGYEI OXYDUM, H. O. ' EUBEUM, L. There are several methods by which this substance may be prepared. The j following are those which have been ordered at different times in the Pharmacopoeias 1. By Precipitation (Hydeaegyei binoxy- DUM—Ph. L. 1836). ^Bichloride of mercury’ (corrosive sublimate), 4 oz.; distilled water, 6