OILS (MEDICATED). 962 that which subsequently drains from the putrid mass. It is very strong-scented and nauseous, and smokes in burning. Both are used for lamps and dressing leather. A full- grown seal yields 8 to 12 gall, of oil; a small one, 4 to 5 gall. Oil of Ses'amum. See Oil op Gingellt (above). Shark-liver Oil. The lightest of the fixed oils. Sp. gr. *865 to '867. Skate Oil. Syn. Oleum eai^, L. From the livers of Raia batis (Linn.), or common skate, as cod-liver oil; also from Raia rhino- batus, or white skate, and Raia clavata, or thornhack. Often sold and mixed with cod- liver oil. Spermace'ti Oil. Syn. Sperm oil ; Oleum CETACEI, L. From the ‘ head matter' of Physeter macrocephalus, or spermaceti whale, a species once common in all the principal seas, but now chiefly confined to the Southern Ocean. It is very limpid, smells little, and burns well; and has long been reputed the best oil for lamps and machinery, as it does not thicken by age or friction. It is frequently adulterated with refined seal oil. Sp. gr. '875. Sunflow'er Oil. Syn. Oleum helianthi, L. From the seeds of Helianthus annuus and H. perennis. Clear, pale yellow, tasteless; thickens at 60° Fahr. Used for salads and lamps. Sp. gr. •9261. Prod. 15§. Teel Oil. See Ging-elly Oil (above). Tohac'co-seed Oil. Syn. Oleum tabaci (ex- PRESSUm), L. From the seeds of Nicotiana Tabacum (Linn.), or true tobacco plant. Pale; dries well; equal to nut oil. Its production has recently been carried on with considerable success in some parts of Russia. Sp. gr. •9232. Oil of Touloucou'na. See Kundah Oil (above). Train Oil. See Whale Oil (below). Wal'nut Oil. Syn. Oleum juglandis, 0. NUCis J., L. From the kernels of the nuts of Juglans regia (Linn.), or common walnut tree. Soon gets rank; dries well. Used in paints, and occasionally in plasters. When ‘ cold drawn' and washed, it is sometimes eaten with salad. Sp. gr. -9260 to -9262. Prod. 48g to 52g. Oil of Wax. Syn. Butter of wax; Oleum cer^, L. From bees' wax, by quick distillation in a close vessel. Butyraceous. By rectification along with quicklime it yields a liquid oil. j Whale Oil. Syn. Train oil. Whale-train o.; Oleum bal^eNjE, 0. ceti, L. From the blubber of the Balcena mysticetus (Linn.), or the common or Greenland whale, by heat. Coarse; stinking. Southern whale oil is the best. Used for lamps, machinery, &c. Sp. gr. •9231. Product per fish, about 1^ ton for each foot of bone. Oil of Wheat. Syn. Oleum tritici, L. From bruised Colne wheat, with heat. In chilblains, ringworm, and several other skin diseases. Oil of Wine-stones. Stjn. Grape-stone oil; jr Oleum vitis vinifer^ lapidum, L. Fromb the seeds of grapes, separated from the marc, i Pale yellow, bland, emollient. Used for salads t and lamps. Sp. gr. -9202. Prod. 14g to 18g. The numbers given above, under ‘pro. .|| ducts' unless when otherwise stated, refer tc 1 i the respective fruits, kernels, nuts, seeds, &c. deprived of their husks, pods, shells, and everj other portion destitute of oil. OILS (Medicated). Syn. Olea cocta, 0 INFUSA, O. MEDiCATA, L. These are prepared! by infusion or decoction. The bruised ingre dients are either simply digested in 2 to : times their weight of olive oil for some days ' or they are gently boiled in it until they be come dry and crisp, great care being taker that the heat towards the end of the procesi is not greater than that of boiling water. Ai soon as the process is complete, the oil is al lowed to drain from the ingredients, whicl are then (if necessary) submitted to the actioi : of the press. The product is commonly rur through flannel or a hair sieve whilst stil , warm, after which it is allowed to repose for i week or ten days, when the clear portion is de i* canted from the dregs. The green or recen \ plants are usually employed for this purpose i but, in many cases, the dried plants, reducec to powder, and digested for 6 or 8 hours in th( oil, at the heat of hot water, with frequen' agitation, yield a much more valuable pro duct. They are nearly all employed as ex ternal applications only. The following are the most importan preparations of this class :— Oil of Adder’s Tongue. Syn. Oleum ophio > GLOSsi, L. From the herb, as oil of bellA’i^ DONNA. A popular vulnerary. ’ Oil of Belladon'na. Syn. Oleum belli DONN^ (P. Cod.), L. Prep. From the fres) leaves, bruised, 1 part; olive oil, 4 parts; di gested together at a gentle heat until the mols j ture is evaporated; the oil is then strained off 1 with pressure, and filtered. ] Oil of Cantha'rides. Syn. Oleum cantha j RiDis, O. CANTHARiDiBUS, L. Prep. (P. Cod 1839.) From Spanish flies (powdered), 1 part | olive oil, 8 parts; as oil of belladonna. Sti mulant and rubefacient. Used as a dressing * to indolent sores, blisters, &c.; and in dropsy rheumatism, gout, &c. Oil of the oil-beetli (Meloe proscarabcRus—Linn.) is prepared in f similar manner. Oil of Cap'sicum. Syn. Oleum capsici, L Prep. (Dr. Turnbull.) From powdered capsi j cum or Cayenne pepper, 4 oz.; olive oil, 1 pint ] digested together for 6 hours, with heat, an< strained. Stimulant; rubefacient; in colit cholera, &c. Oil of Cham'omile. Syn. Oleum anthe midis, Ol. CHAM.EMELI, L. From the drier flowers (rubbed to pieces), 1 part, olive oil 8 parts; digested together, with heat, fo’ 6 hours. Stimulant, emollient, and venni^ i fuge.