840 LING—LINIMENT. LING. The Gadus molua (Linn.), an inferior species of the cod-fish tribe, common in the Northern seas, and used as a coarse article of food by the poor. LINIMENT. Syn. Linimentum, L. A semifluid ointment, or soapy application to painful joints, swellings, burns, &c. The term is also occasionally extended to various spirituous and stimulating external applica- tions. A medicine of a thinner consistence, hut similarly employed, is called an ‘ embeo- CATION.’ These terms are, however, frequently confounded together, and misapplied. Lini- ments are generally administered by friction with the hand or fingers, or with some sub- stance (as a piece of flannel) capable of pro- ducing a certain amount of irritation of the skin. Sometimes a piece of linen rag dipped in them is simply laid on the part. In most cases in which liniments are found beneficial, the advantage obtained from them is attri- butable rather to the friction or local irritation than to any medicinal power in the preparation itself. The greater number of ceeates and OINTMENTS may be converted into liniments by simply reducing their consistence with almond ov olive oil, or oil of turpentine. Add Liniment. Syn. Linimentum acidum, L. ACIDI SULPHUEICI, L. Prep. 1. (Sir B. Brodie.) Salad oil, 3 oz.; oil of vitriol, 1 dr.; mix, then add of oil of turpentine, 1 oz., and agitate the whole well together. As a counter- irritant, in rheumatism, stiff joints, &c. It closely resembles the ‘Guestonian Embeo- CATION.’^ 2. (Hosp. F.) Olive oil, 3 oz.; oil of tur- pentine, 2 oz.; sulphuric acid, 1 fl. dr. An excellent alterative, stimulant, discutient, and counter-irritant, in chronic rheumatism, stiff joints, indolent tumours, and various chronic diseases of the skin. Liniment of Am'ber-oil. Sxjn. Linimentum SUCCINI, L. Prep. 1. From o/iwe o?7, 3 parts; oils of amber and cloves, of each, 1 part. Re- sembles ‘ Roche’s Embeocation.’^ 2. (Opiated; Linimentum succini opia- TUM, L.) From rectified oil of amber and tincture of opium, of each, 2 fl. oz.; lard, 1 oz. Anodyne, antispasmodic, and stimulant. A once popular remedy in cramp, stiff joints, &c. Liniment of Ammo"nia. Syn. Ammoniacal LINIMENT, Volatile, l.. Oil and haetshoen ; Linimentum ammonite (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. & E.) Liquor of ammonia (sp. gr. ’960), 1 fl. oz.; olive oil, 2 fl. oz.; shake them together until they are mixed. 2. (Ph. D.) To the last add of olive oil, 1 fl. oz. Stimulant and rubefacient. Used in rheumatism, lumbago, neuralgia, sore throat, spasms, bruises, &c. When the skin is irri- table, more oil should be added, or it should be diluted with a little water. 3. (Camphorated; Linimentum ammoni.e camphoeatum, Embeocatio amm. campho- ^ See fayf .556. * Ibid. EATA, L.)—a. (Hosp. F.) Olive oil, 3 oz.; camphor, ^ oz.; dissolve by a gentle heat, and when cold, add of liquor of ammonia, 1 fl. oz. b. Soap liniment, 2 oz.; olive oil and liquor of ammonia, of each, 2 dr. As the last; more especially for sprains, bruises, chilblains, &c. 4. (Compound; De. Geanville’s countee- lEEITANT or ANTIDYNOUS LOTION; LlNI- MENTUM AMMONIJi: COMPOSITUM, L.—Ph. E.) —a. (Steongee.) From liquor of ammonia (sp. gr. *880), 5 fl. oz.; tincture of camphor, 2 fl. oz.; spirit of rosemary, 1 fl. oz.; mix. It should be kept in a well-stoppered bottle and in a cool situation. b. (Weakee.) Liquor of ammonia (*880), 5 fl. oz.; tincture of camphor, 3 fl. oz.; spirit of rosemary, 2 fl. oz. Obs. The above formulae are nearly identi- cal with the original ones of Dr. Granville; the principal difference being in his ordering liquor of ammonia of the sp. gr. *872, instead of -880. They are counter-irritant, rubefacient, vesicant, and cauterizing, according to the mode and length of their application. The milder lotion is sufficiently powerful to pro- duce considerable rubefaction and irritation in from 1 to 5 or 6 minutes; vesication, in 8 or 10 minutes; and cauterization, in 4 or 5 minutes longer. For the latter purpose, the stronger lotion is generally employed. Accord- ing to Dr. Granville, these lotions are prompt and powerful remedies in rheumatism, lum- bago, cramp, neuralgia, sprains, swollen and painful joints, headache, sore throat, and nu- merous other affections in which the use of a powerful counter-irritant has been recom- mended. They are ordered to be applied by means of a piece of linen, 6 or 7 times folded, or a piece of thick, coarse flannel wetted with the lotion, the whole being covered with a thick towel, and firmly pressed against the part with the hand. The stronger lotion is only intended to be employed in apoplexy, and to produce cauterization. See Countee-ie- EITANTS. 5. (From sesquicaebonate of ammonia Linimentum ammonle sesquicaebonatis— Ph. L.) Solution of sesquicarbonate of ammo- nia, 1 fl. oz.; olive oil, 3 fl. oz.; shake them together until mixed. This preparation re- sembles ordinary liniment of ammonia in its general properties, but it is much less active, owing to the alkali being carbonated. It is the ‘ OIL AND haetshoen’ and the ‘ volatile liniment’ of the shops. An'odyne Liniment. See Liniments of Belladonna, Moephia, Opium, Soap, &c. Antispasmodic Liniment. Sxjn. Linimen- tum ANTISPASMODICUM, L. CAJEPUTI COM- POSITUM, L. Prep. (Hufeland.) Oils of cajeput and mint, of each, 1 part; tincture of opium, 3 parts ; compound camphor liniment, 24 parts. Anodyne, stimulant, and rubefacient. Arceiis’s Liniment. Comjjound elemi oint- ment,