OLEFIANT GAS—OLEIN. 1007 uentortTM, L. Prep. From resin, thus, mx, and suet, of each, ^ lb.; olihanum and ''cnice turpentine, of each, 2^ oz.; myrrh, 1 oz.; line, \ pint ; boil them together, and, lastly, dd of camphor, 2 dr. Suppurative j warming, j O'LEFIANT GAS. Syn. Ethylene, Bicae- [uEETTED HTDEOGENf, HeAYY CAEBTJEETTED L t, Elayl t, Ethene f. A substance dis- jovered by some associated Dutch chemists, !,i 1795, and composed of carbon and hydro- ■en in the proportions expressed by C2H2 or ^4- Prep. 1. A mixture of alcohol (rectified jpirit), 1 part, and oil of vitriol, 6 parts, is aeated in a retort until it blackens, and sui- jihurous acid begins to be evolved; the product jj then passed first through a wash-bottle con- jaining a solution of caustic poiassa or milk of lime, and next through a bottle containing \oncentrafed sulphuric acid, the last being urnished with a tube dipping into the water f the pneumatic trough. 2. The vapour of boiling alcohol is passed nto a mixture of oz7 of vitriol diluted with ather less than one half its weight of water, nd so heated as to be in a state of tranquil hullition (320° to 330° Fahr.) j the gaseous )roduct is chiefly olefiant gas, and the vapour if water, from which it may he separated as hove. No sulphurous acid is formed, nor loes the acid blacken as in the last process. Prop., Colourless; neutral; nearly )dourless ', nearly insoluble in water; alcohol, !ther, and the volatile and fixed oils, absorb a )ortion of it; burns with a brilliant white lame; at a full red heat it suffers decompo- ition, with deposit of carbon and liberation of ight carburetted hydrogen gas; mixed with wice its volume of chlorine and inflamed, lydrochloric acid is formed, and the carbon of he gas is precipitated .in the form of dense )lack soot; if the .mixture (best in equal 'olumes), instead of being kindled, be left tanding over water, it soon condenses into a leavy oily liquid (chloeide oe oleeiant gas, )UTCH liquid). Sp. gr. *981; 100 cubic nches weigh 30*57 gr. Bro'mide of Olefiant Gas. Syn. Beomide )F ETHYLENE. From bromine and olefiant las, as Dutch liquid. A colourless liquid, with in ethereal odour, boiling at 265°, and solidi- ■ying at 0° Fahr. Sp. gr. 2*16. * Chlo"ride of Olefiant Gas. Syn. Dutch HQUiD, Chloeide oe ethylene. This sub- itance, referred to above, may be easily pre- pared in any quantity by the following pro- cess:—Chlorine and olefiant gas (the latter a ittle in excess) are conveyed by separate tubes 'passing through the same cork) into a glass ^lobe, having a narrow funnel-shaped neck at its lower part, dipping into a small bottle destined to receive the product of their mutual reaction; the newly formed liquid trickles down the sides of the globe into the receiver, ind wheti a sufficient quantity is collected, it is purified by agitating it first with water, and then with sulphuric acid, and, lastly, submitting it to distillation. Prop., 8fc. Colourless; sweet-tasted; agree- ably fragrant, the odour approaching that of oil of caraway; slightly soluble in water; freely so in alcohol and ether; it sinks in water; boils at 180° Fahr.; burns with a smoky greenish flame; is unaffected by oil of vitriol; but decomposed by solution of caustic potassa. It combines with chlorine, forming new compounds. See Chloeides oe Caebon {page 396). I'odide of Olefiant Gas. Syn. Iodide of ETHYLENE. From iodine and olefiant gas, as the last. Colourless, crystalline, highly vola- tile, with a penetrating odour; it melts at 174° Fahr. OLEIC ACID. Syn. Elaic acid. One of the fatty acids discovered by Chevreul, and produced by saponifying oils, and then sepa- rating the base from the resulting soap by means of a dilute acid. It now forms an im- portant secondary product in the manufacture of stearic acid. Perfectly pure oleic acid may be obtained as follows:— 1. By saponifying olein, as just noticed. 2. Pure almond or olive oil soap is decom- posed by a dilute acid, and the resulting oily acid is digested in a water bath with half its weight of litharge (in very fine powder) for some hours, constantly stirring; the mixture is then agitated with twice its volume of ether in a close vessel, and in 24 hours the clear ethereal solution is decanted, and decomposed with dilute hydrochloric acid ; the oleic acid separates, and the ether mixed with it is ex- pelled by evaporation. To render it colour- less, the acid is again saponified with caustic soda, and the soap thus obtained is repeatedly dissolved in a solution of soda, and as often separated by adding common salt; this soap is, lastly, decomposed by dilute hydrochloric acid, as before. Prop., S;c. A colourless oily acid, insoluble in water, soluble in alcohol, ether, and oil; with the bases, it forms salts called oleates. O'LEIN. Syn. Elain; Huile absolue, Fr. The liquid portion of the fixed oils and fats. By saponification, it yields oleic acid. Prep. 1. Olive oil or almond oil is digested for 24 hours with a quantity of caustic soda lye, only sufficient to saponify one half of the oil, and the undecomposed oily portion (olein) is then separated from the alkaline solution and newly formed stearine soap. 2. The saponified mixture of oil and alkali (see No. 1) is digested with proof spirit until all the soap is dissolved out, and the olein separates and floats on the surface; the latter, after repose, is decanted. 3. Almond or olive oil is agitated in a stout bottle with 7 or 8 times its weight of strong alcohol (sp. gr. *798), at nearly the boiling- point, until the whole is dissolved; the solu- tion is next allowed to cool, after which the clear upper stratum is decanted from the