12(5 SILICATE OF ALUMINA—ALUMINIUM. pitate, and taking more care in the decanta- tion, than when ‘ acetate of lead ’ is employed. c. By decomposing a solution of crude sul- phate of alumina with neutral or monobasic acetate of lead; as in No. 2. Prop. Its characteristic property is the feeble affinity existing between its acid and base, which, when it is used as a ‘ mordant,^ is counterbalanced by that of the fibres of the cloth or yarn to which it is applied. In other respects, it resembles the other simple salts of alumina. The solution obtained by formula 4, c. (above), contains, according to Mr. Crum, BINACETATE OF ALUMINA, together with 1 equiv. of free acetic acid; and from this solu- tion the ‘ binacetate’ may he obtained in the dry (crystalline ?) form, perfectly soluble in water, by cautious evaporation at a temperature not higher than 100° Fahr.i Uses, Sfc. In dyeing and calico-printing, as a ‘mordant.^ In medicine, properly diluted in * chronic diarrhoea’; and, mixed with syrup of poppies, in slight cases of haemoptysis {spitting of blood). It has been employed, by M. Gannal, as an injection to preserve animal bodies, which it will do for years.—Dose. \ to 1 dr. daily, in divided portions, taken in thin mucilage or syrup, or in barley-water j as an injection, 10 to 20 gr., to water, 4 to 6 fl. oz., in gonorhoea, leucorrhcea, &c. Obs. Chemically pure acetate of alumina is made only by the first and third of the above formulae; but that prepared by the first should be preferred in medicine. The second is, however, the one most frequently employed by pharmaceutists, owing to the materials ordered in it being always at hand. When either the second or the third formulae is employed, the product should be tested, as noticed above, to see that it does not contain any traces of lead or baryta, both of which are poisonous. The products of the other forms are used only as mordants. The presence of a little sulphate of potassa (as in 4 a.), is said to assist its action on the cloth. See Alu- mina, Calico-printing, Dyeing, Mordants, Putrefaction, Red Liquor, &c. Cit'rate of Alumina. Syn. ALU'MiNiE Cit'ras, L. Prep. By saturating a solution of citric acid with moist hydrate of alumina, and gentle evaporation. Its medicinal pro- perties resemble those of the acetate (which see). Little used. Hydrochlo"rate of Alumina. See Chloride OF Aluminium. NiTrate of Alumina. Syn. ALU'MiNiE NF- TRAS, L. Prep. Similar to that of the ace- tate and citrate. Its concentrated acid so- lution deposits rhombic crystals, containing 18 equiv. of water.^ Silicate of Alumina. A substance which, in its hydrous form, is the chief and cha- racteristic ingredient of common clay; and which also occurs, in combination, in several ’ “ Proc. Chem. Soc.,” vi, 216. 2 “ Sillimau's Journal,’' iv, 30. other important and abundant minerals. See Clay, Felspar, &c. Sul'phate of Alumina. Syn. Sesquisul'- ! PH ATE OF ALUMINA, NeUTRAL S. OF A., TeR- I sul'phate of a.* ; Alu'min.e sul'phas, I A. sesquisul'phas, &c., L. Prep. 1. Satu- < rate dilute sulphuric acid with hydrate of alu- 1 mina, gently evaporate, and crystallise. | 2. (Crude, commercial.) By mixing clay \ and oil of vitriol, in the way described under Alum. The product is the ' concentrated 11 alum’ of the dyers. Prop. Its crystals are needles and thin pearly plates; soluble in 2 parts of water; taste, astringent, and somewhat sweetish; reaction, acid; a full red-heat expels its acid, leaving a residuum of pure alumina; with the sulphates of potassa, soda, and ammonia, it forms alum. ' ( Uses, &fc. In the arts, chiefly as a substitute ( for ‘alum’; the sulphate of potash in the latter, being found to he an unnecessary and j costly ingredient, only useful to purify the t salt from iron, by forming a compound of ' t easy crystallisation; an object that may be i* effected with greater certainty by cheaper ' methods. In medicine, as a wash for foul and ill-conditioned ulcers; and as an astringent i and antiseptic injection. M. Gannal has suc- cessfully employed a solution of this salt to preserve animal bodies, by throwing it into the arteries. Even an enema of 1 quart of it, or an injection of a like quantity into the oeso- phagus, will suffice to preserve a body for several weeks. The mineral called Al'unite or Alu'minite, found near Newhaven (Sussex), ' is a native subsulphate or basic sulphate (di- sul'phate) of alumina. See Alum, Alu- mina, &c. {above). Tann'ate of Alumina (?). Syn. Alu'min^ tann'as, L. Prep. Take of pure hydrate of alumina (dried at 90° Fahr.), 1 part; tannic acid (dried at 212°), 2 parts; triturate them to- gether for some time, adding just sufficient water to bring them to the consistence of a syrup, and carefully evaporate to dryness at a heat not higher than 120° Fahr.; lastly, re- duce the residuum to powder. Uses, cfc. A combination of uncertain con- . ^ stitution, which is said to have been found very « 1 useful in obstinate vomiting and diarrhoea, in * dysentery, and particularly in haemoptysis, ' haemorrhage, &c.—Dose, 3 to 12 or 15 gr. See | Alumina. AL'UMINE (-mm; -um-m+). [Eng.*, Fr.] ' Alumina. i ALUMIN'IC ACIDf. Syn. Alu'minous i I« ACiDf (see below). Crude sulphuric acid ob^|''' tained by the distillation of alum per se. 9 ALUMIN'IUM (-u-mm'-yum). [Eng., Fr.* ! L.] Ayra. Alu'minum, Eng., Fr., L.; Alumium,"* ; , Ger.; ARGiL'LiUMf. A metal of which the* oxide, or sesquioxide, is alumina. Hist., 4’C. Sir H. Davy inferred the exist- ence of aluminium from the fact, that alumina, I at a white heat, oxidises the vapour of potas-