720 GUM RESINS—GUNPOWDEK. and superior. This process has been patented in France by M. Henze. 4..(Pinel.) Water, 100 gall.,‘w^7r^e acid, ^ gall., and hydrochloric acid, ^ pint, are mixed together, and as much potato starch is added as will form a thin paste; in two hours the liquid is drained off, and the solid matter is made up into lumps,' which are dried by a gentle heat in a stove-room; they are next coarsely pulverized, and the powder is exposed on three successive days to the respective tem- peratures of 100®, 150®, and 190° Fahr.; the whole is then sifted, and, lastly, exposed to a heat ranging from 300° to 350° Fahr. Darker coloured than thedast. To give it the appear- ance of gum arable, it is made into a paste with water containing 1§ of nitric acid, and after being spread on copper plates in layers ^ to 1 inch thick, it is exposed to a stove heat ranging from 240° to 300° Fahr. Prop., iifc. White; insipid; transparent; friable; soluble in cold water^ and in dilute spirit; insoluble in alcohol and ether; its solution yields a precipitate with acetate of lead. Jodine commonly turns commercial dex- trine blue, but does not affect the colour of pure dextrine. It is distinguished from ordi- nary gum by its right-handed polarization of light, and by yielding oxalic but not mucic acid, when treated with nitric acid. Dextrine is nutritive, emollient, and agglu- tinant. In France it is largely employed by the pastry-cooks and confectioners, and in medicine as a substitute for gum. The French surgeons also commonly employ it as a ^stiffen- ing’ for the splints used for fractured limbs. In this country it is chiefly used as a fine dressing for muslinS, silk, and other textile fabrics, and in calico printing. Recently it has been made up into tear-like masses, and sold for gum arabic, to which, however, it is vastly inferior as an agglutinant. See Dex- TEINE. Cherry-tree Gum. Syn. Fetjit-tree gtjm, Plum-teee g. ; Gummi ceeasi, G. peuni, L. An exudation from the stems of cherry, plum, and some other of the Rosacea. It is only partly soluble in water. It contains CEEASINE (which see). East India Gum. This product, which con- sists of inferior kinds of gum acacia, is chiefly exported from Bombay, having been previously conveyed there from the coast of Arabia. It varies greatly in quality. Some samples are quite unfitted for making gum-water. Insoluble Gum. See Bassoea Gum, Cheeey- TEEE Gum, and Gum Teagacanth. Seed Gum. Syn. Gummi seminum, L. A species of soluble gum extracted from the seed of the flax (linseed), quince, &c. Gum Senegal. This product, which is largely exported from Portendie, Sierra Leone, and the French settlements on the Senegal, ranks next in quality to gum arabic, and for many purposes, as calico-printing for instance, it answers equally well. The transparent and light-coloured pieces are frequently picked out and sold as gum arabic. Gum Trag'acanth. - Syn. Teagacanth, Gum deagon; Gummi » teagaoantha, G. DEACONIS; Teagacantha (Ph. L.), L. The gummy exudation of the Astragalus verus, hardened by the air. When digested in water, it swells considerably, a portion is dissolved, and the whole combines to form a thick mu- cilage. It is totally soluble in boiling water, when some change is supposed- to take place in it; a great portion, however,’ afterwards separates. Sp. gr. 1‘384. It is chiefly em- ployed in calico-printing, and by shoemakers and lozenge-makers; by the latter to give toughness to the saccharine mass. Powdered tragacanth is often adulterated with flour or starch, and not unfrequently with the commoner varieties of gum arabic. According to M. Planche, a mixture of pul- verized tragacanth and gum arabic forms, with water, a thinner mucilage than the same quan- tity of either of these gums alone. This fraud may be detected as follows:—Make a mucilage of the suspected gum, and add thereto a few drops (2 or 3 to the dr.) of alcoholic tincture of guaiacum, taking care to stir it all the while. If the sample contains any gum arabic, the mixture, in the course of a few minutes, as- sumes a fine blue colour, whilst it does not change colour if the gum tragacanth is pure. 5§ of gum arabic can be thus detected. When the quantity is very small, one to four hours may elapse before the colour is developed. Starch and flour are detected in the manner noticed under Gum Aeabic. Turkey Gum. Various qualities of gum j acacia are sold under this name, j GUM RESINS. Syn. Gummi eesin^, L, Vegetable products in which the properties of gum and resin are combined. They are partly soluble in water, and partly in alcohol. Many . of them form a specie’s of emulsion when tri- turated with the former fluid. The principal gum resins are ammoniacum, assaecetida, BDELLIUM, GALBANUM, GAMBOGE, MYEEH, I OLIBANUM, OPOPONAX, SAGAPENUM, and SCAM- MONY. GUN BAR'RELS. See Beowning. GUN COT'TON. See Pyeoxylin. GUN MET'AL. An alloy containing 90'5g of copper and 9‘52 of tin, used for casting pieces of ordnance (erroneously termed ‘beass guns^), also those parts of machinery which are sub- jected to considerable friction. See Alloys, Beonze, Steeeo-metal, &c. ' GUN'POWDER. This substance is a mecha- t nical mixture of saltpetre, charcoal, and sul- phur. It is seldom prepared on the small scale. Prep. The saltpetre having been trebly re- fined, by boiling, skimming, filtering, and crystallizing, is melted into cakes, which are ^ then brushed to remove any adhering grit or dirt, broken into pieces with a mallet, ground to a fine powder in a mill, and sifted through