VOLUMETRIC ANALYSIS—WAFERS. 1320 between the opposite metals (the zinc of one couple being united with the copper of another); hut when simple quantity without intensity is required, the zinc of one battery is united with the zinc of the other, and the copper of the one with the copper of the other, an effect which is equally attainable with a single battery of enlarged dimensions. Another useful apparatus is Geove’s bat- TEEY, in which the positive metal consists of amalgamated zinc immersed in sulphuric acid, diluted with 10 times its bulk of water; and the negative metal of platinum immersed in strong nitric acid. The two liquids are kept separate by the use of porous vessels, as in ‘ DanielFs battery.^ This is an extremely powerful arrangement, but not so constant as Daniell’s, owing to the reduction of the nitric acid to lower oxides of nitrogen. After this battery has been in action for about an hour, copious red nitrous fumes are given off, which cause great annoyance. In place of platinum, compact charcoal or coJce, prepared by a rather troublesome process, may be used, and the arrangement then con- stitutes a Bunsen^s batteey. Other sub- stitutes for the costly platinum have been proposed, as lead coated with gold or platinum, and iron rendered ‘passive^ by immersion in strong nitric acid (see page 789). Callan has obtained very good results with amalgamated zinc and cast iron immersed in diluted sul- phuric acid, without the use of nitric acid (Maynooth batteey). In Smee’s batteey, which is much used in the arts, pairs of amalgamated zinc and plati- nized silver (or platinized platinum) are im- mersed in dilute sulphuric acid (1 part acid to 7 parts water). The plates of zinc are usually bent double, and the platinized plates inter- posed between the two surfaces formed by the bend. See Platinizing {page 1099). In every voltaic combination the passage of the electricity {i. e. the positive modification of the force) in the liquid is from the active element to the inactive element; in the case of a simple zinc-and-copper couple, for instance, it is from the zinc to the copper. If this simple fact be borne in mind, it wiU decide in every case the question which confuses so many, namely, which is the positive, and which the negative end of a battery ? The positive is the end where the electricity leaves the battery; the negative where it re-enters it. For further information connected with the subject of voltaic electricity, see articles on Electeicity, Electeolysis, Electeo- TYPE, Etching, &c. VOLUME'TRIG ANALYSIS. Quantitative chemical analysis by measure. This method of analysis “ consists in submitting the sub- stance to be estimated to certain characteristic reactions, employing for such reactions liquids of known strength, and from the quantity of the liquid employed determining the weight of the substance to be estimated by means of the known laws of equivalence.” As an ex- ample of this method we give the following from the Introduction in Mr. Sutton’s excel- lent ‘ Handbook of Volumetric Analysis’:— “ Suppose that it is desirable to know the quantity of pure silver contained in a shilling. The coin is first dissolved in nitric acid, by which means a bluish solution, containing silver, copper, and probably other metals, is obtained. It is a known fact that chlorine combines with silver in the presence of other metals to form chloride of silver, which is in- soluble in nitric acid. The proportions in which the combination takes place are 35‘46 of chlorine to every 108 of silver; conse- quently, if a standard solution of pure chlo- ride of sodium is prepared by dissolving 58'46 grains of the salt (i. e. 1 equiv. sodium = 23, 1 eq. chlorine = 35*46 = 1 eq. chloride of sodium 58*46) in so much distilled water as will make up exactly 1000 grains by measure; every single grain of this solution will combine with *108 grains of pure silver to form chlo- ride of silver, which precipitates to the bottom of the vessel in which the mixture is made. In the process of adding the salt solution to the silver, drop by drop, a point is at last reached when ,the precipitate ceases to form. Here the process must stop. On looking care- fully at the graduated vessel from which the standard solution has been used, the operator sees at once the number of grains which have been necessary to produce the complete decomposition. For example, suppose the quantity used was 520 grains; all that is ne- cessary to be done is to multiply *108 grains by 520, which shows the amount of pure silver present to be 56*16 grains.” The volumetric method is much less troublesome than the or- dinary method of analysis (by separating the constituents ofja mixture and weighing them), and is admirably adapted for the examination of substances used in arts and manufactures. Most of the processes described under Acidi- METEY and Alkalimetey are examples of this method. See those articles, also Equivalents, Test-solutions, &c. WADE’S DROPS. Compound tincture of benzoin. WA'FER PAPER. See Waeees, in Cookery {below). WATERS. Thin adhesive discs, used for securing letters or sticking papers together. Prep. 1. (Waeees, Floue w.) The finest wheaten flour is mixed with water, either pure or coloured, to a smooth pap or batter, which, after being passed through a sieve, to remove clots or lumps, is poured into the ‘ wafer-irons’ (previously warmed and greased with butter or olive oil), and in this state exposed to the heat of a clear charcoal fire; the whole is then allowed to cool, when the irons are opened, and the thin cake, which has become hard and brittle, is cut into wafers by means of sharp