ATK. 53 Prop. Atmospheric air is transparent^ colour- I less, inodorous, tasteless, respirable, neutral to 1 re-agents, and a supporter of combustion. It II is about 816 times (815 times—Prout.) lighter i than an equal bulk of water ; 100 cubic inches, I at mean temperature and pressure, weigh about j 30-5 gr. (Brande, Sir G. Shuckburg); 100 c. i. }' of pure dry air (deprived of carbonic acid) I weigh 32-7958 gr. at 32° Fahr., and 30-0117 I gr. at 60° Fahr., the height of the barometer P being 30 inches. (Prout.) Its power of con- i' veying electricity, odours, effluvia, contagion, I &c., is in direct proportion to the quantity of j| aqueous vapour which it contains; hence the || superior perfume of growing flowers, the more i( noisome stink of drains, and the accession and ;1 increase of pestilential diseases during damp weather. Anal. See Nitrogen, Oxygen, Carbonic Acid, Sulphuretted Hydrogen, &c. Pur. The most common impurities in the atmosphere affecting its salubrity, are—carbonic acid (in excess), smoke, carburetted hydrogen, sulphuretted hydrogen, the noxious effluvia from sewers, privies, and other accumulations of de- i composing organic matter, and excessive mois- ture from bad drainage, which are only to be met by the prompt removal of the causes, and by thorough cleansing or ventilation, as the case may demand. The purity of the air of a house, or district, as well as its comparative sa- I luhrity, may generally be discovered by refer- I ence to the state of health of the residents, ' and the registrar’s quarterly return of the number of deaths which occur within its limits. In many cases, the very complexions and fea- tures of the inhabitants betray the character of the spot or neighbourhood in which they live. The following tests may interest the popular experimentalist:— 1. (Carbonic acid.) A glass tumbler nearly filled with lime water, and placed in any convenient position, as on the mantel-piece of a room, becomes covered with a pellicle of carbonate of lime, and gradually yields a precipitate of this substance, with a ra- pidity, and in quantity proportionate to the amount of the carbonic acid in the atmosphere surrounding it. 2. (Sulphuretted hydrogen, &c.) A little moist carbonate of lead, ^aced on a plate or saucer, and exposed as last, becomes gradually discoloured, or blackened, in an atmosphere con- taining even a very small quantity of this de- structive gas. An enamelled address-card, slightly moistened, and similarly exposed, is another simple test. 3. (Decomposing organic matter, miasma, &c.) A colourless solution of nitrate of silver, exposed under like circumstances in the shade, or in a dull light, and, after some time, in the sun or full daylight, reddens or darkens more rapidly, and to a greater extent, than a similar freshly prepared solution of nitrate of silver which has not been exposed to foul air. 4. (Ceneral salubrity.)—a. The presence and quantity of ozone (a substance seldom unde- tectable in the atmosphere of a healthy lo- cality) may be determined by the daily exposure and olDservation of an ozonometer. b. A simple but excellent criterion of the com- parative salubrity of a place, is the length of time that butcher's meat, poultry, game, ^c., may be preserved before the accession of incipient putrefaction. In some of the worst drained, most confined, and most unhealthy parts of London, butcher’s meat can scarcely be pre- served from day to day, in warm weather, in a state fit for human food; whilst in those which are the most salubrious, the same articles may be safely kept a week, or longer, even in hot weather. In his extensive surveys and researches in connexion with sanitation and the health of towns, the Editor of this work has made this fact a frequent subject of remark. Uses, ^c. The uses, effects, and agency of the atmosphere, as far as the existence and well-being of man is concerned, may be said to be all but universal. Its intimate relations with life, health, and disease, and the impor- tant part it plays in chemistry and the arts, and in the general economy of the world, are too well known to require a lengthened notice. If the atmosphere did not exist, objects would not he illuminated unless exposed to the direct rays of the sun. The atmosphere, notwith- standing its transparency, intercepts and re- flects the rays of light, and multiplies and pro- pagates them by an infinity of repercussions. To it we are indebted for the twilight. By its aid, artificial light and heat are obtained. It furnishes an exhaustless source of oxygen in the numerous operations of both natural and human chemistry ; it is the ultimate source of carbon, nitrogen, and ammonia, and to it we are indebted for the purest form of natural water. Fermentation and putrefaction are only established under its influence; first furnishes us with alcohol, wine, vinegar, and other luxuries; the last, removes from the sur- face of the world those effete and poisonous matters, which organic life is continually en- gendering. If, therefore, through the agency of the atmosphere, organic matter, after vi- tality has ceased, suffers continual deterioration and decay, the same elements and materials are again ultimately restored to the organic world, to be reclothed in all the beauty, vigour, and freshness of youthful existence. The at- mosphere is indeed a region of clouds, vapours, and storms, hut by it the earth is fertilised and covered with vegetation, and rendered ht for the support and enjoyment of animated beings. The ‘ animal world’ is continually borrowing from its vast store of oxygen, and contami- nating it with carbonic acid, ammonia, and organic vapours; but the equilibrium of its con- stituents is as constantly restored by ‘ vegeta- bles,’ which evolve oxygen, and decompose its carbonic acid, water, and ammonia. See Atmo- sphere, Gas, Epidemics, Fermentations, Ozone, Putrefaction, Ventilation, &c.