CEMENT. 412 powder. For v.se, it is mixed uj) with water, as ordinary plaster of Paris. Obs. This cement has been most extensively applied as a stucco. It is susceptible of a high polish, and, when coloured, produces beautiful imitations of mosaic, and other in- laid marbles, scagliola, &c. It is not adapted to hydraulic purposes, or for exposure to the weatlmr, but is admirable for internal decora- tions, and from its extreme hardness is very durable. It may be coloured or tinted of any shade, by difiusing mineral coloui’s (levigated, if in powder) through the w'ater used to mix up the cement with. A pleasing tint is given to this cement by adding a little solution of green copperas to the alum liquor. Labor'atory Cement. Sijn. Chemical mas- tic. From equal parts of intch, resin, and plaster of Paris (thoroughly dried), mixed to- gether. Used for the masonry of chlorine chambers, vitriol works, &c.; and as a lining lor casks intended to hold chloride of lime. LetTer-lix'ing Cement. Prep. Copal varnish, 15 parts; drying oil, 5 parts; turpentine, 3 parts; oil of turpentine, 2 parts ; liquified glue (made with the least possible quantity" of w^ater), 5 parts; melt together in a water bath, and add fresh slaked lime (perfectly dry, and in very line powder), 10 parts. Used to attach metal letters to plate glass in shop windows, Ac. Mahog'any Cement. Prep. 1. Melt bees' wax, 4 oz.; then add Indian red, 1 oz., and enough yellow ochre to produce the required tint. 2. Shell-lac, melted and coloured as above. Very hard. Both are used to till up holes and cracks in mahogany furniture by the cabinet makers. Red putty is also used for the same purpose. Mais'siat’s Cement. India rubber is melted, either with or without about 152 of either bees’ wax or tallow ; quicklime (in line powder) is gradually added; and the heat continued, until change of odour shows that combination has taken place, and until a proper consistence is obtained. Used as a water-proof and air- tight covering for corks, bungs, Ac. Marine Cement. See I\Iaeihe Glhe and Elastic Cement. Opti"cians’ Cement. Prep. 1. Shell-lac softened with rectified spirit or w'ood naphtha. For fine work. 2. Bees’ icax, 1 oz.; resin, 15 oz. ; melt, and add, whiting (previously made red hot, and still w^arm), 4 oz. 3. Resin, 1 lb.; melt and add plaster of Paris (dry), 4 oz. The above are used to fix glasses, stones, Ac., while polishing and cutting them. The last is a very strong cement for rough purposes. Oxychlo"ride of Zinc Cement. (Sorel.) Prep. In solution of chloride of zinc, marking from 50° to G0° of Baumc's hydrometer {i. e. sp. gr. 1-490 to 1-652), dissolve 3}| of borax or sal- ammoniac ; then add oxide of zinc ■which has been heated to redness, until the mass is of a proper consistence. Obs. This cement becomes as hard as marble. It may be cast in moulds, like plaster of Paris, or used in mosaic -work, Ac. ParaboTic Cement. Syn. Uniyeesal ce- j MENT. Prep. Curdle skim milk with rennet or ] vinegar, press out the whey, and dry the curd I by a very gentle heat, but as quickly as possible. I When it has become quite dry, grind it in a cofiee or pepper mill, and next triturate it in a mortar until reduced to a very fine powder. Mix this powder with ^'gth of its w-eight of i new dry quicklime, also in very fine powder, i and to every ounce of the mixture add 5 or 6 j gr. of powdered camphor ; triturate the wdiole j well together, and keep it in wide-mouth 1 oz. i phials, w'ell corked. Used to join glass, earthen- j w-are, Ac. It is made into a paste w-ith a little w-ater, as wanted, and applied imme- diately. Park'er’s Cement. This cement is made of the nodxdes of indurated and slightly ferruginous I marl, called by mineralogists “ septaria,” and ! also of some other species of argillaceous lime- i stone. These are burnt in conical kilns, with pit i coal, in a similar way to other limestone, care I being taken to avoid the use of too much heat, j as if the pieces undergo the slightest degree of fusion, even on the surface, they will be unfit to form the cement. After being pro- perly roasted, the calx is reduced to a very fine powder by grinding, and immediately packed in barrels, to keep it from the air and moisture. Uses, This cement is tem]icred with water, and applied at once, as it soon hardens, and will not bear being again softened down with water. For foundations and cornices exposed to the weather, it is usually mixed with an equal quantity of clean angular sand; for use as a common mortar, with about twice as much sand; for coating walls exposed to cold and wet, the common proportions are 3 of I sand to 2 of cement, and for walls exposed to I extreme dryness nr heat, about 2| or 3 of sand I to 1 of cement; for facing cistern work, water \ frontages, Ac., nothing but cement and water 1 should be employed. Under the name of I compo’ or Roman cement, it is much employed for facing houses, water-cisterns, setting the {foundations of large edifices, Ac. j Pew’s Cement. Quicklime, 1 part; baked I clay, 2 parts—(both in powder) ; mix and cal- I cine; then add gypsum (fresh baked and in fine powder), 1 part, to powdered baked clay, 2 parts; mix well, add the former mixture, and incorporate them well together. Used to cover buildings. It is applied like mortar, and is very liard and durable. See Ginns’ Cement, Ac. Plumb'ers’ Cement. Black resin melted with about an equal weight of brick-dust. Some- times a little pitch or tallow is added. Portland Cement. From clay and chalk, or argillaceous river-mud and chalk or limestone.