BIRCH—BIRDS. 313 BIRCH. %w. Be'tfla, L. ; Bouleau, Fr.; Birke, Ger. The common name of trees of the genus he’tula ; appr., b. al'ha (Linn.), or white birch; also its wood. See Betuline, and below. Black Birch. Syn. Cher'ey b., Sweet b., MoUNT'AIN MAHOa'ANY; BeTTJLEN'TA, L. A forest tree of No. America. Wood, used for cabinet-work: bark yields a volatile oil similar in odour and taste to that of gualtheria; Juice, obtained by tapping, saccharine, and yields BIRCH-SUGAR. White Birch. Syn. Birch, (or) Common B.; Be'tijla, L. a tree found in the woods of England. Wood, neither very hard nor du- rable : leaves formerly used in itch and dropsy; hark febrifuge, yields a pyroligneous oil by distillation. See Oils (and above). BIRD.^ [Eng., Sax.] Syn. A'vis, L.; Oiseau, Fr.; Vogel, Ger. Any fowl, or animal of the feathered kind. In fashionable and gourmandic cant, appr. a partridge. See Birds (below). BIRD'LIME. Syn. Vis'cus, L.; Gld, Fr.; VoGELLEiM, Ger. Prep. The middle bark of the holly (gathered in June or July), is boiled for 6 to 8 hours in water, or until it becomes quite soft and tender; the ‘ water ^ is then drained off, and it is placed in a heap, in a pit underground (commonly on layers of fern), and covered with stones. Here it is left to ferment for 2 or 3 weeks, and watered, if ne- cessary, until it assumes a mucilaginous state. It is next pounded in a mortar until reduced to a uniform mass, which is then well kneaded with the hands, in running water, until all the refuse matter is worked out. It is, lastly, placed in an earthen vessel, and covered with a little water; in which state it may be pre- served from season to season. In about a week it is fit for use. Prop. Greenish coloured; very gluey, stringy, “ and tenacious; when air-dried, brittle and pul- verisable, but capable of gradually assuming its previous viscosity when moistened. Uses. To cover twigs to catch birds, and other small animals. It is said to be discutient, but is now never employed in medicine. Obs. Birdlime may also be made from misletoe-berries, the young shoots of the elder, the bark of the wayfaring-tree, and some other vegetables, by a similar process to that above described. Should any of it stick to the hands, it may be removed by means of a little oil of turpentine. A kind of factitiotts birdlime is made by boiling linseed-oil either with, or without, a little yellow resin, until it forms a viscid, stringy paste when cold. This is chiefly used, spread on paper or cloth, to catch insects. See Fly-papers, &c. 1 Properly, a ‘ chicken’ or ‘young flying-animal.’—It is remarkable, as observed by Webster, that a nation should lay aside tlie proper generic name of flying animals— ‘ ’owl’ {fugel, pujl. Sax.; vogel, Ger., l)ut.; fngl, Dan.; fogel,^',\-.from the root of tneLat.,/7<^.'o,/M^o), and sub- stitute the name of the young of those animals, as tlie generic term. BIRDS. Syn. A'ves, L. Birds, besides their value as food, play an important part in the economy of organic nature, and particularly in that of the vegetable kingdom. They are the best friends of the agriculturalist and the gardener; and their presence, in numbers, appears essential to keep down the innu- merable races of insects that prey upon our cereals, fruits, and culinary vegetables. M. Florent Prevost, who has for fifty years pre- sided over the Natural History Museum of Paris, and who has, like the ancient Roman augurs, examined the entrails and stomach of fowls with scientific curiosity, avers, as the result of his long experience, that birds, of whatever sort, are an unmitigated blessing to the farmer, and that the detritus and organic particles found by inspection of them in whole hecatombs, which, by the assistance of the Royal Forest Rangers, he has sacrificed on the altar of utility, show an immense predominance of ‘ insect corpuscula’ in their digestive organs, whilst the traces of cereal or other valuable products are infinitesimal in comparison. It is found that even sparrows, rooks, and owls— three of the feathered tribe the most perse- cuted by the farmer—are, in reality, the faithful and vigilant conservators of his fruits and crops. In one of the smaller states of Germany, where, owing to public rewards being given to their destroyers, the whole race of sparrows were exterminated, the crops failed to such an alarming extent, that it became necessary to offer large premiums for the re-introduction of these useful birds from other parts. In some of the agricultural dis- tricts of France, where the destruction of small birds has been carried on with relentless activity for years, insects have so prodigiously multiplied as to attack everything green around them. Even the forest-trees are, in many cases, denuded of leaves by them, and are rapidly perishing. Venomous species of caterpillars, previously scarcely known except to entomologists, have now become common; and cases of children losing their lives from attacks of them whilst bird-nesting, have recently been published in the newspapers.^ In our own country, the extension of ‘ sparrow- clubs’—associations disgraceful to the ‘ boasted intelligence’ of the nineteenth century— threatens similar results. Already the gar- dener finds his fruit-crops lessening year by year; and that many of them, particularly of the smaller and sweeter fruits, have become so precarious, that they now scarcely pay for cultivation. In our own neighbourhood, where ‘ small birds’ have for some years been destroyed by bushels at a time, it is almost impossible to raise a currant, gooseberry, cberry, or plum ; whilst seedling flowers and culinary vegetables often entirely disappear on the first night after being planted, or are so completely deprived of the succulent portion * A striking fatal case of this description is given in the “Times” of June 12, 1862.