LAMB—LAMP. 819 washed, and dried, as before. The decanted liquor, if still coloured, is now treated with fresh alumina until exhausted, and thus a lake of a second quality is obtained. Very fine. 2. To the coloured liquor obtained from the \ carmine and cochineal as above, a solution of ja/MW is added, the filtered liquor precipitated jwith a solution of carbonate of potassa, and the I lake collected and treated as before. Scarcely so good as the last. Obs. Some makers mix a little solution of \tin with the coloured liquor before adding ] the alum or alumina; this brightens the colour. The above lake is a good glazing colour with oil, but has little body. It may be made directly from a decoction of cochineal. ^See below.) ICoch'ineal Lake. Prep. 1. Cochineal (in coarse powder), 1 oz.f water and rectified ipirit, of each, 2^ oz.; digest for a week, .liter, and precipitate the tincture with a few jirops of solution of tin, added every 2 hours, intil the whole of the colouring matter is brown down; lastly, wash the precipitate in listilled water, and dry it. Very fine. 2. Digest powdered cochineal in ammonia cater for a iveek, dilute the solution with a 'itlle water, and add the liquid to a solution f alum, as long as a precipitate falls, which :s the lake. Equal to the last. 3. Coarsely powdered cochineal, 1 lb.; water, I gall.; boil 1 hour, decant, strain, add a so- lution of salt of tartar, 1 lb., and precipitate *vith a solution of alum. By adding the alum irst, and precipitating the lake with the al- kali, the colour will be slightly varied. All he above are sold as caeminated or Flo- lENCE LAKE, to which they are often superior. Green Lake. Made by mixing blue and tellow lake together. Seldom kept in the hops, being generally prepared extempora- leously by the artist on his palette. Lac Lake. Prep. Boil fresh stick-lac in a !olution of carbonate of soda, filter the solution, )recipitate with a solution of alum, and pro- leed as before. A fine red. Li'chen Lake. See Oecein. Mad'der Lake. Syn. Lacca etjbi^, L. co- .UMBiNA, L. Prep. 1. (Sir H. C. Inglefield.) Cake of Dutch grappe or crop madder, 2 oz.; ie it in a cloth, beat it well in a pint of water u a stone mortar, and repeat the process with resh water (about 5 pints) until it ceases to ield colour; next boil the mixed liquor in an arthen vessel, pour it into a large basin, and dd of alum, 1 oz., previously dissolved in oiling water, 1 pint; stir well, and while tirring, pour in gradually of a strong solution f carbonate of potassa (‘ oil of tartar^), oz.; et the whole stand until cold, then pour off he supernatant yellow liquor, drain, agitate he residue with boiling water, 1 quart (in eparate portions), decant, drain, and dry. Product. )ioz. The Society of Arts voted the\r •old medal to the author of the above formula. 2. Add a little solution of acetate of lead to a decoction of madder, to throw down the brown colouring matter, filter, add a solution of tin or alum, precipitate with a solution of carbonate of soda or of potassa, and otherwise proceed as before. 3. (Ure.) Ground madder, 2 lb.; water, 1 gall.; macerate with agitation for 10 mi- nutes, strain off the water, and press the re- mainder quite dry; repeat the process a second and a third time; then add to the mixed liquors, alum, ^ lb., dissolved in water, 3 quarts; and heat in a water bath for 3 or 4 hours, adding water as it evaporates; next filter, first through flannel, and, when sufficiently cold, through paper; then add a solution of carbonate of potassa as long as a precipitate falls, which must be washed until the water comes off colourless, and, lastly, dried. If the alkali be added in 3 successive doses, 3 different lakes will be obtained, successively diminishing in beauty. See Maddee, Maddee Red, &c. Or'ange Lac. Prep. Take of the best Spanish annotta, 4 oz. ; pearlash, f lb.; water, 1 gall.; boil for half an hour, strain, precipi- tate with alum, 1 lb., dissolved in water, 1 gall., observing not to add the latter solution when it ceases to produce an effervescence or a pre- cipitate; strain, and dry the sediment in small squares, lozenges, or drops. The addi- tion of some solution of tin turns this lake on the LEMON YELLOW; acids redden it. See Yellow Lake. Red Lake. Prep. Take of pearlash, 1 lb.; clean shreds of scarlet cloth, 3^ lb. ; water, 5 gall.; boil till the cloth is decoloured, filter the decoction, and precipitate with a solution of alum, as before. See the Lakes noticed above (Brazil-wood, Carminated, Cochineal, and Madder). Yellow Lake. Prep. 1. Boil French ber- ries, quercitron bark, or turmeric, 1 lb., and salt of tartar, 1 oz., in water, 1 gall., until reduced to one half, then strain the decoction, and precipitate with a solution of alum. 2. Boil 1 lb. of the dye-stuff with alum, ^ lb.; water, 1 gall., as before, and precipitate the decoction with a solution of carbonate of potash. See Oeange Lake {above). LAMB in its general qualities closely re- sembles mutton, of which, indeed, it is merely a younger and more delicate kind. It is well adapted as an occasional article of food for the convalescent and dyspeptic ; but it is unequal, for frequent use, more especially for the healthy and robust, to the flesh of the adult animal. LAMP. A contrivance for producing arti- ficial light or heat by the combustion of in- flammable liquids. The term ^lamp^ is also applied to a portable gas-burner (gas-lamp), and to a tubular candle-holder, which, by the aid of a simple mechanical device, keeps the flame at one height (candle-lamp). Oil lamps were employed for illumination among the nations of antiquity, at the earliest period of which any record exists. The As- syrian, Greek, and Roman lamps preserved