MAGNESIA. 873 exceedingly light and bulky; if otherwise, it is denser. By employing iieaidy saturated [ solutions, and then heating them and mixing f them together whilst very hot, a very heavy precipitate is obtained, but it is apt to be !' gritty or crystalline. The same occurs when cold solutions are mixed, and no heat is em- ployed. The lightest precipitate is obtained I from cold, highly dilute soliitions, and sub- 1 sequent ebullition of the mixture. Mr. Pattinson, a chemist of Gateshead, pre- , pares a very beautiful and pure heavy car- f bonate from magnesian limestone. The latter is calcined at a dull red heat (not hotter) for '; some time, by which the carbonic acid is ex- pelled from the carbonate of magnesia, but not from the lime, which hence continues in- 1 soluble. The calcined mass is next reduced I to a milk with water in a suitable cistern, and I the carbonic acid resulting from its own cal- cination forced into it under powerful pres- ■ sure. The result is a saturated solution of I magnesia, the lime remaining unacted on so long as the magnesia is in excess. The solu- tion by evaporation yields the heavy cae- BONATE, whilst carbonic acid is expelled, and may be again used in the same manufacture. 154- to 160 gr. of the heavy carbonate are re- I quired to fill an ounce measure when lightly . placed in it, by which it appears to be fully thrice as dense as the light cai-bonate. The bi- 1 CARBONATE OP MAGNESIA (MAGNESIJE BICAR- ( BONAS, L.) exists only in solution. The so-called ^ ‘ PLHID magnesias’ of Murray, Dinneford, Hus- ^ band, &c., are solutions of this salt. The small f prismatic crystals which are deposited when i ‘ fluid magnesia’ is exposed to the air for some • j: time consist of hydrated neutral carbonate, tand not bicarbonate, as is sometimes stated. l\ Cit'rate of Magnesia. Syn. Magnesia ci- TRAS, L. Prep. There is some difficulty in [ obtaining this salt in an eligible form for me- I dicinal purposes. When precipitated from a 1 solution, it is insoluble. The following for- mula3 (1 and 2) can be highly recommended. 1. (Parrish.) Dissolve crystallized citric acid, 100 gr., in water, 15 drops, and its own ‘ water of crystallization’ by the aid of heat j then stir in calcined magnesia, 35 gr.; a pasty mass will result, which soon hardens, and may be pow- dered for use. Obs. The chief practical difficulty in this process results from the great comparative bulk of the magnesia, and the very small quantity of the fused mass with which it is to be incorporated. A part of the magnesia is almost unavoidably left uncombined, and the salt is consequently not neutral. The uncom- bined earth should be dusted off the mass be- fore powdering the latter. A high tempera- ture must be avoided. 2. (Robiquet.) Citric acid, 35^ parts, is I powdered and dissolved in boiling water, i lOg parts; when the solution is cold, and be- j fore it crystallizes, it is poured into a wide earthen vessel, kept cold by surrounding it with water ; then, by means of a sieve, carbo- nate of magnesia, 21^ parts, is distributed evenly and rapidly over the surface without stirring; when the reaction ceases, the mix- ture is beaten rapidly as long as it retains its pasty consistence. The salt should be dried at a temperature not exceeding 70° Fahr. 3. (Effervescing; Magnesia citras ef- fertescens, L.)—a. Citric acid (dried and powdered), 7 parts; heavy carbonate of mag- nesia, 5 parts; mix, and preserve in well- corked bottles. b. (Ellis.) Mix powdered citric acid, oz., with, powdered sugar, 8 oz.; triturate to a fine powder, and drive off the water of crystalliza- tion by the heat of a water bath; add citrate of magnesia (prepared by fusion), 4 oz., and oil of lemons, 10 drops, and mix intimately; then add bicarbonate of soda, 3 oz., and again tri- turate until the whole forms a fine powder, which must be preserved in stoppered bottles. From 1 to 3 table-spoonfuls, mixed in a tumbler of water, furnishes an effervescing draught in which the undissolved portion is so nicely suspended, that it can be taken without incon- venience. c. (Extemporaneous.) Citric acid (cryst.), 20 gr.; carbonate of magnesia, 14 gr.; mix in a tumbler of cold water, and drink the mix- ture whilst effervescing. A pleasant saline. Obs. A dry white powder, sometimes sold as citrate of magnesia in the shops, is quite a dif- ferent preparation to the above, and does not contain a particle of citric acid. The follow- ing formula is that of a wholesale London drug-house that does largely in this article:— Calcined magnesia, 1^ lb. (or carbonate, 2 lb?); powdered tartaric acid, 1| lb. ; bicarbonate of soda, 1 lb.; dry each article by a gentle heat, then mix them, pass the mixture through a fine sieve in a warm dry room, and keep it in well-corked bottles. A few drops of essence of lemon and 3 lb. of finely powdered sugar are commonly added to the above quantity. This addition renders it more agreeable. Prop., Sfc. Citrate of magnesia is a mild and agreeable laxative; its secondary effects re- semble those of the carbonate. Dose. As a purgative, ^ to 1 oz. The dose of the effer- vescing citrate must depend on the quantity of magnesia present. A solution of this salt in water, sweetened and flavoured with lemon, forms Magnesian lemonade. Boro-cit'rate of Magnesia. Syn. Mag- nesite BORO-ciTRAS, L. Prep. (Cadet.) Bo- racic acid (in powder), 113 gr.; calcined mag- nesia, 80 gr.; mix in a porcelain capsule, and add enough of a solution of citric acid, 260 gr., in water, 3| pints, to form a thin paste; then add the remainder of the citric solution, and gently evaporate, with constant stirring, to dryness. A cooling saline, and, in small doses, emmenagogue and llthontriptic. Dose. As an aperient, 3 to 6 dr. Boro-tar'trate of Magnesia and Potas'sa. Syn. Magnesite et potass.e boeo-tartras, L.