5^7 ESSENCE. druggists as articles of tlie toilet. See Essence, Spirit, &c. ES'SENCE. Sf/n. Essentia, L. The active and characteristic portion of a substance, or that on which its most remarkable properties I depend. The term has been very loosely I applied to various preparations presumed to j contain these essential principles or qualities, disencumbered of grosser matter. Modern systematic writers generally restrict its appli- cation to the volatile oils obtained from vege- table substances by distillation, or to a strong i solution of them in alcohol. In pharmaci/ and I perfumery, the word ‘essence’ is applied to con- centrated preparations that differ vastly from I each other. Thus, concentrated infusions, de- I coctions, liquors, solutions, and tinctures, are ! frequently called ‘ essences’ by those who vend I them; but the term ‘fluid extracts’ would be I more appropriate, if those already mentioned ! are not deemed sufficiently showy and attrac- ' tive. We shall here confine ourselves to a brief notice of the principal compound essences, or those that undergo some preparation beyond being merely extracted from vegetables by distillation along with water. The latter will be considered under the article Oil. The concentrated preparations of the phar- maceutist, termed ‘ essences,’ are mostly pre- pared by digesting the active ingredient or ; ingredients in rectified spirit of wine, either with or without the addition of a certain portion of water ; or they are extemporaneously formed by dissolving a portion of the essential oil ’ of such substances in the spirit. In this way are i made the essences of lavender, musk, gin- ger, &c. When it is desired only to obtain the aromatic and volatile portion of the ingredients, the latter are usually digested in the spirit for a few days, and then submitted to distillation, f* when the alcohol comes over loaded with aroma- I tic essential oil, or other volatile matter. In this 1 way are prepared most of the fragrant essences 1 of the perfumer and druggist, when simple I solution of the essential oils in alcohol is not I resorted to. In many cases the active princi- I pies of the ingredients are partly volatile and j partly fixed, or at least do not readily volatilize I at the temperature at which alcohol distils I over. This is the case, for instance, with the j active portion of ergot and Jamaica ginger. In such cases digestion alone should be adopted. 1 When the principle of organic substances, of which it is desired to obtain a concentrated so- j lution, are resinous or oily, or little soluble in I weak spirit (which is mostly the case), the i strongest rectified sph'it of wine should alone I be employed. In tlic preparation of essences ' without distillation, the method hy percolation I or displacement is preferable to that of simple i maceration and expression, when the nature ' of the ingredients and other circumstances j render it applicable, as it is not only more I economical, but a more concentrated solution I may thereby be obtained. At the same time, : however, the reader should remember, that this mode of operating requires much greater experience and skill to ensure success than the former method. This clumsiness of manipu- lation is the common cause of the failures which are so frequently met with in the pre- paration of these articles. The ingredients for the preparation of essences must undergo the same operations of bruising, powdering, or slicing, as directed under ‘ Tincture,’ previous to digestion in the spirit, or other menstruum; and the length of time they should be allowed to infuse, when this method alone is adopted, should not be less than ten days; but this time may be ad- vantageously extended to a fortnight, or even longer. During the whole of this period fre- quent agitation should be employed, and when the ingredients are so bulky as to absorb the whole of the fluid, the vessel which contains them should be securely fastened by a bung or stopper covered with bladder, and inverted every alternate day. By this means every portion of the ingredients will be eqiially ex- posed to the action of the menstruum. In all such cases the method of displacement, or per- colation, is preferable. For the essences used as perfumes and for flavouring, not only must the spirit be perfectly tasteless and scentless, but it must be also quite devoid of colour. The following formulae embrace most of the essences met with in the shops. Those not found among them may be readily prepared by applying the general directions given above, or by employing the formula given for the preparation of the essence of some similar sub- stance, merely varying the characteristic in- gredient. Thus, were it desired to form an ESSENCE OF AMBERGRIS Or of MYRRH, and nO formulae could be found for these preparations, the tyro would consider in what menstruum the active principles of these substances were most soluble. 'Ibis, he would immediately see b}'^ reference to their properties, is rectified spirit of u ine. He would next have to decide on the proper strength of his essence. In this he must be guided, either by the strength of the like preparations of other makers, or by his own judgment of what would be useful, novel, or convenient. Suppose he decided that his essence should represent 1-lOth of its weight of the solid ingredient. He would then take 2 oz. of ambergris or myrrh, and 20 oz. of rectified sjnrit, which he would digest together for 10 days or a fortnight in the manner described above. Had the required preparation been an essence of senna (for example), he would probably recollect, or might easily ascertain by reference, that the active properties of senna are soluble in both icater and iveak sjnrit. Then, to make an essence 4< times as strong as the tincture of the pharma- cojmia, 7 oz. of senna, and 1 pint of proof sjnrit, should be employed, with due digestion, as before.^ The same applies to other prepara- 1 See directious giveu under Tl^cTunE. 37