966 OILS (MINEEAL). Prop. Odour very slight; illuminating power high; boiling-point 338° Fahr., or 126° above that of water. American Oil. See Peteoleum Oil (belong. Apyroec'tic Oil. Syn. Non-explosive oil. A burning oil introduced by F. Tall, of Hull, and prepared, we believe, from American petro- leum. Prop. Slightly coloured; pei’fectly limpid; odour slight, hut not perceivable during com- bustion. The most remarkable property of this oil -is that, in spite of its limpidity, the point at which it gives off inflammable vapour is 180° Fahr., or 80° above the requirements of the Petroleum Act. Bel'montine Oil. From ‘Rangoon tar* or ‘Burmese petroleum* by distillation; ‘super- heated steam ^ being employed as the heating agent. Prop. Colourless; odour not unpleasant; sp. gr. *847; but although so heavy, the oil is altogether free from viscosity, and will rise rapidly in a comparatively long wick; in- flaming-point 134° Fahr.; burns with an ex- ceedingly white light, and possesses a very high illuminating power. Ohs. The distillation of the Rangoon tar is carried on by Price’s Patent Candle Com- pany, under a patent. Besides the above lamp oil, several beautiful and useful products are obtained;—At flrst there comes over a very volatile liquid, termed sheewoodole, used as a detergent for removing grease from fabrics, cleaning gloves, &c.; then comes the Bel- MONTiNE OIL, already noticed; then two lu- BEICATING- OILS, the One light and the other heavy; and last of all, when the temperature is considerably elevated, the beautiful white, translucent solid, known as Belmontine, distils over. This last is a kind of ‘ paraffin,’ and is used for making ornamental candles. Caz'eline Oil. An excellent burning oil, probably prepared from American petroleum, introduced by Cassell, Smith, and Co., of London. Prop. Bright, limpid, with scarcely a trace of colour; odour very slight, and quite free from any objectionable character; sp. gr. *805; lowest point of ignition 144° Fahr.; burns with a pure white light, free from smoke and smell. Col'zarine Oil. A heavy hydrocarbon oil, adapted for burning in lamps constructed from the old ‘ Moderators ’ and ‘ Carcels,’ for- merly so much used for the fat oils. Prop. Limpid; quite inodorous; of a pale amber colour; sp. gr. about *838; temperature at which the vapour can be permanently ig- nited, 250° Fahr. Tested in the altered mo- derator, it gives an intense white light, without smoke or smell. Compared with vegetable colza oil, its illuminating power is in the proportion of 3 to 2. Obs. This oil is manufactured by Cassell, Smith, and Co., under Martin’s patent for the modification of mineral oils, to fit them for burning in lamps where ‘colza’ and other vegetable and animal oils have been usually consumed. Similar oils are prepared by other firms. Machin'ery Oil. Syn. Lubeicatino oil, Shaeting o.. Spindle o. The heavier hydro- carbon oils obtained in distilling coal, shale, and petroleum, have almost superseded the fat oils for lubricating purposes. They have no chemical action on the ordinary metals, and are not affected by cold. The lightest of these comparatively heavy oils are used for spindles, or other kinds of rapid machinery; the heaviest for the bearing parts of heavy ma- chinery ; and those of an intermediate cha- racter for such things as printing-presses, agricultural steam-engines, &c. The firm of Whitmore and Craddock is favourably known for the manufacture and purification of these machinery oils. See Belmontine Oil {above), and Paeafpin Oil {below). Par'affin Oil. Syn. Paeaffine oil. This name was given by Mr. Young to the oil pro- duced by the distillation of cannel coal. Bog- head coal, &c., at a temperature considerably lower than that employed in the manufacture of ILLUMINATING GAS. This product being the most important of the mineral oils, some account of its manufacture will be expected from us. The following is a brief outline of the process adopted at the great paraffin works at Bathgate, Linlithgowshire:— Manvf. (Young’s patent.) Boghead coal, broken into small fragments, is introduced into perpendicular tubes or retorts, about eleven feet in height, by conical hoppers at their upper extremities. Four of these tubes constitute a set, being built into one furnace, and charged by a single workman. They pass completely through the furnace, and are closed below by dipping into shallow pools of water, while the openings into the hoppers above may be shut by spherical valves. The coal in each tube is gradually heated as it descends to that part which passes through the furnace, and when it reaches the bottom of the tube it has parted with its volatile constituents, and is raked away as refuse, the coal from above descending as it is removed. Thus, the action of these perpendicular retorts is continuous, and the distillation goes on uninterruptedly both day and night. The vapours produced are conducted by iron tubes to the main condensers, which consist of a series of syphon pipes freely exposed to the air. The quantity of incondensible gas formed is inconsiderable; and it is this result, so dif- ferent from that obtained in the ordinary gas- works, that marks the great value of Young’s process. The ceude oil, a dark-coloured, thick liquid, is then distilled to dryness in large iron cylindrical stills, and is thus freed from the excess of carbon which is left behind as coke. The oil, after distillation, is farther purified by being acted upqn by strong sul- phuric acid (‘oil of vitriol’), which chars the