1271 THALLIUM—THERMOMETERS. :oficasionally mistaken for the itch. It consists !of small vesicles, often forming patches or blotches, and produces, as these die off, a des- quamation of the cuticle. The discharge, left to itself, dries up by evaporation, and forms a , crust, which gets progressively thicker. Around ithe lips and on the face of children this crust not unfrequently forms, as it were, a mask; and on the scalp it mats the hair together, and is peculiarly unpleasant. Eczema ex- ,hibits several degrees of severity. When it I attacks the scalp it is often called the nuMiD -SCALL, and constitutes one of the most common varieties of " scald head.' A milder form of this disease, which attacks the face of infants during lactation, is often called the milk- I SCALE. The treatment of this and allied affec- tions is noticed at page 574. Yellow ceusted tettee, or impetigo, is I a pustular eruption, that has been generally I referred to at page 574. “Impetigo, in one I respect, resembles the humid tetter, namely, in the oozing of fluid from the excoriated skin. It is this fluid, or humour, which causes the I great thickness of the crusts, and their repro- I Auction when once removed. A resemblance I may be traced, also, in the manner of evolution of the eruption, for sometimes the mattery I pimples break out in clusters of regular form i and various size upon a single part of the body, I and at other times they are scattered irregu- larly over the entire surface of the skin j the ; former is termed figured (impetigo figueata), I the latter scattered (impetigo spaesa) ; the I former presents occasionally another peculiarity, 1 namely, growth by the circumference and evanescence in the centre, forming a ceusted , eing-woem.” (Eras. Wilson.) THAL'LIUM. [Eng., L.] A heavy metal, belonging to the mercury, silver, and lead group, discovered by Crookes in the early part of 1861, and displayed by him as “ a new me- tallic element" at the opening of the Interna- tional Exhibition, on the 1st of May, 1862. i Thallium is a widely diffused metal, being found in many minerals, particularly iron- and cop- per-pyrites and native sulphur. It has re- ! cently been obtained in comparatively large i quantities from the dust of the flues leading I to sulphuric acid chambers. The spectrum i of thallium (see page 1224) consists of a single most characteristic line of a beautiful green : colour. The spectrum produced when th< ' metal is burnt in the electric arc is, however, I more complicated, and consists of several green, ' blue, and other lines. Thallium melts at 550® Fahr., and at a less heat may be readily welded, a property that has hitherto been regarded as peculiai to iron and platinum. Its specific gra- vity varies from 11’8 to 11*9, according to the mode of preparation. When freshly cut it has a dull white colour, destitute of th. , brilliancy of polished silver. Exposed to the I air, it tarnishes rapidly, a straw-coloureci OXIDE making its appearance on the surface. The oxide is alkaline and caustic to the taste, and much more soluble than the oxides of silver and lead. The metal is remarkable for its strongly marked diamagnetic characters, resembling bismuth in this respect. The alloys of thallium are very remarkable. Copper, alloyed with only one half per cent, of thal- lium, becomes quite brittle; but the alloy with tin is malleable. Mr. Crookes has pre- pared a great number of the salts of this in- teresting metal. These need not be described here, as they have not yet been applied to any use in the arts. THEBA'INE. Syn. Thebaia, Paeamos* PHIA. A crystalline substance obtained by Thibourmery from an infusion of opium that has had its morphine extracted by acting on it by an excess of lime. The residuum dis- solved in dilute acid, precipitated by ammonia, and the precipitate dissolved in alcohol or ether, yields pure thebaine on evaporation. Prop., <^c. It forms, when pure, colourless needles, like those of naecotine; it has a sharp metallic taste; is fusible; strongly alka- line ; soluble in ether, freely soluble in alco- hol, and scarcely soluble in water; with the weak acids it forms salts, which do not readily crystallize. It is distinguished from MOEPHINB by its insolubility in potassa; by not becoming blue on the addition of sesquichloride of iron, and by not being reddened by nitric acid. It is distinguished from CODEINE by both itself and salts being difficultly crystallizable. (Kane.) 1 gr. injected into the jugular vein of a dog acts like stetchnine, and causes tetanus and death in a few minutes. (Magendie.) THE'INE. Syn. Theina. An alkaloid ex- tracted from tea. It is identical with caf- feine, and may be obtained from tea in the same manner as that substance is from coffee. The best * gunpowder tea’ contains fully 6g of theine, about one half of which is lost in the present careless mode of making infusion of tea for the table. THENARD’S BLUE. See Ulteamaeine (Cobaltic). THEOBRO'MINE. A peculiar principle, closely resembling caffeine or theine, found by Woskresensky in the seed of the Theobroma Cacao, or the nuts from which chocolate is prepared. Its form is that of a light, white, crystalline powder, which is rather less soluble than cafleine. It is obtained like CAFFEINE. See Cocoa. THERI'ACA. A name given in ancient pharmacy to various compound medicines, chiefly electuaries or confections, employed as antidotes to poisons or infection. The Thb- lUACA Andeomachi, Ph. L. 1746, contained ibove 60 ingredients. Mithuidate and Venice treacle are examples of this class. THERMOM'ETERS. Fahrenheit's scale Is tlie one generally employed in England, wiiile that of Cels'ius, or the Centigrade scale, is ])rincipally Used on the Gout nent. Reaumue’s is another scale occasionally eua-