238 ASSAYING. may be employed, provided It affords a suffi- cient heat, and allows of the easy introduction of the muffle. The mxjff'le (muf'l) is a vessel made of clay (see engr.), and furnished with an opening to admit of the introduction of the cupels, and the complete inspection of the process. It is placed on the muffle-plate (see above), by which it is introduced into the furnace. The CU'PEL (ku'-pel) is a small, porous, shallow crucible, usually made of hone ashes or burnt horn. The powder (slightly moistened with water), is placed in a circular steel- mould, and after being pressed down tight, is finished oflT with a rammer having a convex face of polished steel, which is forcibly struck with a mallet, until the mass becomes suffi- ciently hard and adherent. The newly-formed cupel is then carefully removed and exposed in the air for a fortnight, or three weeks, to dry. Fig. 3, represents a cupel in section, and fig. 4, the tongs used for charging it. The best weight for cupels ranges between 180 and 200 gr. Those used at the Royal Mint are made of the calcined cores of ox-horns. 3 4 Proc. of ass. The muffle, with the cupels properly arranged on the ‘ muffle-plate,’ is placed in the furnace, and the charcoal added and lighted at the top, by means of a few ignited pieces thrown on last. After the cupels have been exposed for about half an hour, and have become white-hot, the lead (see below) is put into them by means of the ‘ tongs.’ As soon as this becomes bright-red and ‘ circulating^ as it is called, the specimen for assay, wrapped in a small piece of paper or lead-foil, is added. The fire is now kept up strongly until the metal enters the lead and ‘ circulates ’ well, when the heat, slightly di- minished, is so regulated that the assay appears convex and more glowing than the cupel itself, whilst the ^undulations’ circulate in all di- rections, and the middle of the metal appears smooth, with a margin of litharge which is freely absorbed by the cupel. When the metal becomes bright and shining, or, in technical language, begins to ‘lighten’ and prismatic hues suddenly flash across the globules, and undulate and cross each other, followed by the metal becoming very brilliant and clear, and at length fixed and solid (called the ‘brightening’), the separation is ended and the process complete. The cupels are then drawn to the mouth of the ‘muffle,’ and allowed to cool slowly. When quite cold, the resulting ‘button,’ if of SILVEE, is removed by the ‘pliers’ or ‘tongs’ from the cupel, and after being flattened on a small anvil of polished steel, with a polished steel hammer, to detach adhering oxide of lead, and cleaned with a small hard brush, is very accurately weighed. The weight is that of the ‘ pttee SILVEE’; and the diffeeence between the weight of the alloy before cupellation, and that of the button of pure metal, represents the proportion of alloy in the sample examined. {See below.) In the case of ‘ gold,’ the ‘ button ’ has to undergo the subsequent ope- rations of quartation, parting, and annealing, before it is weighed; as described under that metal. AssayeFs weights, ^c. The materials used in assaying are accurately weighed in a balance of the most susceptible description; and the weights are given in terms of the ‘ notation ’ employed by assayers. The ‘fineness ’ ‘ rich- ness,’ or ‘ degree of purity ’ of gold is ex- pressed in carats. Pure gold is spoken of as 24 carats fine; and any other sample con- taining in 24 parts only 12, 18, 22, &c., parts of pure gold, is said to be of as many carats fine. Every carat is nominally divided into 4 ‘ assay-grains,’ each assay-grain into ‘ quarters’ and each quarter into ‘ eighths ’ (= carat), giving 768 “reports” for gold. On this system fractional alloys are commonly spoken of as of so many ‘ carats and thirty-seconds fine.’ The real quantity taken for assay, tech- nically termed the ‘ assay-pound,’ is, however, very small, generally either 12 gr. or 6 gr.; which makes each assayer’s eighth-grain, or “report,” equal to either the or gr. Troy, as the case may be. The nominal as- sayer’s gold carat is 12 gr. The “journey- , weight of gold” is 15 lb. Troy ( = 701 sove- reigns = 1402 half-sovereigns). The ‘fineness,’ ‘richness,’ or ‘purity’ of SILVEE was formerly expressed in penny- weights; but is now generally reckoned in lOOOths, which admits of greater accuracy. Pure .silver was said to be “ silver of 12 penny- weights.” If it contained 1, 2, or 3 parts of alloy, it was termed “silver of 11, 10, or 9 pennyweights,” as the case might be. Every assayer’s pennyweight was nominally divided into 24 gr., and hence gave 288 fine grains, or ‘ reports,’ for silvee. The fineness of speci- mens containing odd grains, was given in pennyweights and fine grains. The ‘assay- pound ’ for silver, on this system, may be 24 Troy-gr., when 2 real grains are equal to 1 ‘ fine pennyweight,’ and real gr. equal to 1 ‘fine-grain.’ In the decimal method pure silver is = 1000. The usual weight of silver * taken for the ‘assay-pound,’ when the fine- ness is reckoned in lOOOths, is 20 Troy gr., every real grain of which represents -rf^-j^th i of fineness; and so on of smaller divisions. ' The mint “ journeyweight of silver,” is 60 lb. Troy ( = 3920 shillings, or a like value in other J denominations). Ratio. Cupellation, which is the distinctive and most important operation in assaying gold and silver, is founded upon the feeble affinity which these metals have for oxygen, in comparison witli copper, tin, and other cheaper metals; and on the tendency which