605 EXTRACT. AQUOSA, E. SIMPLICIOEA, L.) usually cousist of gum, starch, sugar, albumen, extractive, and saline and other matter, along with the peculiar principles on which the medicinal I virtue of the vegetable depends. When spirit is employed as the solvent, the products (al- coholic EXTRACTS; EXTEACTA ALCOHOLICA, L.) contain most of the substances above enume- rated, except the gum and starch, together with several other substances which are soluble in spirit, but which are either wholly or nearly i insoluble in water ; as resins, essential oils, and the proximate principles of vegetables. These preparations, with scarcely an exception, are ; considerably more powerful than the aqueous I extracts of the same vegetables. In some cases proof spirit or under-proof spirit is em- ployed, when the extracts (spirituous ex- I TRACTS; EXTRACTA SPIRITUOSA, L.) generally , possess properties between those of the above. In other cases, dilute acetic acid or acidulated water is employed as the menstruum, when the products (acetic extracts; extracta j acetica, L.) possess much greater activity I than when prepared with water; and would i in many cases prove fatal, if exhibited in doses as large as those of the aqueous extracts. Still I more active extracts are obtained by a com- I bination of the last two menstrua. According ' to Ferrari, plants treated with rectified spirit of wine, mixed with ^th part of acetic acid, I yield extracts of remarkable activity. On the 1 Continent, ether is sometimes used as the men- I struum for the active principles of certain sub- stances, as cantharides, cubebs, worm-seed, &c. (ethereal EXTRACTS; EXTRACTA ETHEREA, L.). The term ‘ simple extract^ is applied to i an extract prepared from a single plant or i vegetable substance, and the term ‘ compound extract’ to one prepared from two or more of such substances. The fluid extracts (extracta fluida, L.) of modern pharmacy ! are those which are only evaporated to the consistence of a thin syrup, and then mixed with 1-lOth to l-8th of their volume of recti- fied spirit. Prep. The preparation of medicinal extracts I may be conveniently considered under two ' divisions, viz.—1. The production of a solu- tion of the soluble portion of the substances I operated on; and, 2. The reduction of this solu- I tion by evaporation to the consistence of an ! extract. I. Preparation of Solutions:—pre- liminary operations in the manufacture of ex- : tracts are similar to those employed in the I preparation of DECOCTIONS, infusions, and I TINCTURES. The proper quantity of the in- I gredients being taken, the whole is well bruised or reduced to coarse powder, or otherwise I divided by slicing with a knife, that every por- I tion may be fully exposed to the solvent action of the fluid. In some few cases (as with gen- \ tian, &c.) the ‘ slicing,’ or reduction to frag- ments, is often conveniently deferred until . the action of the menstruum shall have so far softened the ingredients as to render them of easy division by the knife. Those substances (as sarsaparilla, chamomiles, &c.) whose medi- cinal principles reside in the cortical portion, or which are of easy solubility, are commonly subjected to the action of the menstruum without being subjected to any particular pre- paration. In the preparation of aqueous extracts, the ingredients are treated with water until all the soluble matter that it is desirable to obtain is dissolved out. There are several methods of effecting this object, depending upon the nature of the substances acted on. In some cases, MACERATION in cold water is resorted to ; in others, percolation with that fluid in a ‘ displacement apparatus.’ More generally, however, boiling water is poured on the sub- stance, and is digested on it for some time, as in the preparation of infusions ; or the sub- stance is exhausted by boiling it in water, as in the preparation of DECOCTIONS. After the ebullition or infusion has continued a suflScient time, the heat is removed, and the liquid por- tion drawn off. The ingredients are then pressed to extract the remaining liquid; or they are or * sparged' with hot water, which expels it by displacement. According to the usual practice in the majority of cases, a second quantity of water is poured on after the first has been thoroughly drained off, and the infusion or decoction is repeated a second and even a third time, or until the ingredients are perfectly exhausted of their soluble portion. The liquor or liquors thus obtained being allowed to repose for 15 or 20 minutes, for the purpose of depositing the sand or other gritty and heavy matter that is mechanically mixed with them, are carefully decanted from the sediment, and, after being run through a fine hair-sieve, or flannel bag, are ready for concentration. In some instances, however, this method proves insufficient to render the liquid clear. In such cases, the solution may generally be rendered transparent by clarifica- tion with a little white of egg, removing the scum as it rises, straining the liquid through flannel, as before; or the liquid may be filtered through a bag made of fine * Welsh fiannel,’ or of * tweeled cotton cloth ’ (Canton flannel), both of which should be soaked in clean w'ater for at least an hour before use. In the small way, filters of linen or paper are sometimes em- ployed; but as all media sufficiently fine to render vegetable solutions transparent soon choke up, this filtration is objectionable, from the length of time it occupies. In some houses, the aqueous infusion or decoction is allowed to repose for 24 hours, and then decanted and evaporated; but such a plan is objectionable, as, however smooth and glossy extracts so pre- pared may appear, their medicinal virtues are lessened by the lengthened exposure to the atmosphere. When about one half oi an aqueous solution has evaporated, it is often advantageous to