740 HYDROCYANIC ACID. added, and, subsequently, red oxide of mer- cury, the latter dissolves as readily as it would in free hydrocyanic acid, if this acid is present. This is regarded as a test of a most conclusive character. The above tests apply equally to liquids con- taining free hydrocyanic acid and the alkaline cyanides; but they fail to detect the presence of cyanogen in cya7iide of mercury. For this purpose the solution is mixed with a little hydrochloric acid and clean iron filings or wire, Avhen metallic mercury separates, and hydro- cyanic acid and chloride of iron remain in solution; potassa being now added, and subse- quently hydrochloric acid in excess, Prussian blue, recognised by its colour, is at once formed. Or, the solution of cyanide of mer- cury may be decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen, and then tested as liquid hydro- cyanic acid. Or, like the cyanide of silver, it may be recognised by the colour of its flame. (See No. 3.) Most of the cyanides of the heavy metals are decomposed by sulphuretted hydro- gen and by dilute hydrochloric acid, a solution of hydrocyanic acid being formed, which may then be tested in the way already indicated. In cases of poisoning, in which the above tests cannot be applied, the contents of the stomach, or other organic; mixture, may be introduced along with a little sulplmric or hydrochloric acid into a retort, and distilled, and the re- agents applied to the distilled liquor. Estim. The following are the most conve- nient and reliable of the CYANoaEN-METRiCAL processes now in use :— 1. The liquid acid, diluted with water, if concentrated, is treated with a solution of nitrate of silver as long as a precipitate forms; the latter {cyanide of silver') is carefully col- lected on a weighed filter, washed, dried, and weighed. This weight, divided by 5, gives the per-centaye of pure hydrocyanic acid present, provided 100 gr. have been examined, and the sample is free from hydrochloric acid. The absence of the latter is determined by digesting tlie weighed precipitate in a concentrated solution of nitrate of silver, or in boiling nitric acid. It should wholly dissolve. If any portion remains undissolved, it must be carefully col- lected, washed, dried, and weighed. In this case the loss in weight gives the quantity of cyanide of silver', which must be divided by 5, as before. The result is the true richness of the sample in pure hydrocyanic acid. 2. (MM. Fordos and Gelis.) This process, which is principally applicable to alkaline cyanides, depends on the fact that, when a solution of iodine is added to one of cyanide of potassium, the iodine loses its colour so long as any undecomposed cyanide remains. At the end of the reaction the yellow colour of the iodine solution becomes apparent. A test-solu- tion of iodine (3 gr. to 1 fi. oz.) is gradually added from a ‘ burette’ to a weighed sample of the dilute acid, until a permanent yellow tinge becomes visible, when the quantity of test liquor consumed indicates the strength of the acid 4; examined (equiv. for equiv.). 3. (Liebig.) This beautiful process is well ; adapted for estimating the per-centage strengths of medicinal hydrocyanic acid, solutions of alkaline cyanides, &c. Fused nitrate of silver, 63 gr., is dissolved in distilled water, 5937 gr.; by which a test liquor of 6000 grains is obtained, of which every 300 gr. correspond to 1 gr. of hydrocyanic acid. The weight of the , | bottle containing this silver solution is then accurately taken and noted. A weighed por- tion of the medicinal hydrocyanic acid under examination is next diluted with three or four times its bulk of water, and then mixed with a solution of caustic potassa and a few drops of a solution of common salt. To this mixture the silver test-solution is gradually added until a . visible turbidity is produced, which does 7iot disappear on agitation. The test-solution is . then again weighed. The loss in weight, divided by 300, gives the quantity of pure^ hydrocyanic present jjer cent., when 100 gr.?| have been examined. Suppose 60 gr. of medi-Jp cinal acid are found to require 360 gr. of the f silver solution, then the proportion of anhy- drous hydrocyanic acid present in the medi- j cinal acid will be 1*20 gr., or 2§. In testing by this method, an error of a grain or two in the • quantity of silver solution used is not likely to occur, but even this would not make a ditfer- ence of more than 1-l.OOth or l-50th of a grain in the amount of hydrocyanic acid. This test answers equally well “with cherry-laurel and bitter almond water, and solutions of the alnaline cyanides, provided proper care is taken.” 4. (Ure.) To 100 gr., or any other conve- nient quantity of the acid contained in a small phial, small quantities of the red peroxide of mercury, in fine powder, are added in suc- cession, until it ceases to be dissolved on agi- tation. The Aveight of the oxide taken up, being divided by 4, gives a quotient represent- ing the quantity of real hydi'ocyanic acid pre- sent. By Aveighing out beforehand, on a piece of paper or a Avatch-glass, 40 or 50 gr. of the peroxide, the residual weight of it shows at once the quantity expended. The operation may be always completed in five minutes, for the red precipitate dissolves as rapidly in dilute prussic acid, with the aid of slight agitation, j as sugar dissolves in Avater. Should the pre- sence of hydrochloric acid be suspected, then the difference in the volatility of hydrocyanate and hydrochlorate of ammonia may be had recourse to with advantage ; the former vo- , latilizing at a very gentle heat, whilst the latter requires a subliming temperature of ; about 300° Fahr. After adding ammonia in ; slight excess to the acid, if avc evaporate to ; dryness at a heat of 212°, Ave may infer from j the residuary sal ammoniac the quantity ot | hydrochloric acid present. Every gr. of sal I ammoniac corresponds to *6822 gr. of hydro- ' chloric acid. ■