202 APPLE—AQUA. also been recommended. See BiLiorSNESS, Dyspepsia, Woems, &c. APP'LE (ap'l). Spi. Ma'lem, Po'mijm, L.; PoMME, Fr. j Apfel, Ger.; Appee, Dut.; Aple, Swed. This well-known fruit is the pro- duct of the cultivated varieties of py'rus ma’lus (Linn.), or the crah-apple of our hedges \ a tree of the Nat. ord., Eosacese. The date of its amelioration from the wild state is probably very remote, as several kinds are noticed by Pliny in a manner that would lead to the inference of a high antiquity. Pippins, or ‘seedling improved apples,’ are said to have been introduced into this country from the South of Europe towards the end of the 16th century. Don enumerated 1400 varieties of the cultivated apple; there are now probably above 1650. Rennet apples (po'ma eenet'tia) are those ordered in the P. Cod. to be used in pharmacy. In botany and composition, the term apple (pomum) is used to designate any large, round, fleshy fruit, consisting of a ‘ peri- carp’ enclosing a tough ‘capsule’ containing several seeds; as love-apple, pine-apple, &c. The wood of the apple-tree is much used in turnery; that of the crab-tree is generally preferred by mill-wrights for the teeth of mortise-wheels. The expressed juice of 1 cwt. of ripe apples, after the free acid has been saturated with chalk, yields from 11 to 13 lb. of a very sweet, but uncrystallisable sugar. See Pippin, Cy- dj:e, Feuit, Hoeticttltijee, Jelly, Sauces, SUGAE, &c. Love'-appleJ. The tomato. Mad'-applej. The larger Mecca or Bus- sorah gall. They are also called Dead-sea APPLES, A. OF Sodom, &c. See Galls. Acid of Apples. Malic acid. APPEOXIMA'TIOE. [Eng.,Fr.] Syn. Ap- peoxima'tio, &c., L.; Annaheeung, Ger. Approach, or near approach to, but without actual contact, identity, likeness, or equality. The corresponding adj. are appeoxTmate or appeoxTmatite \approxima’tus, L.). “ In a general sense, the word approximate, may be applied to every result of natural philosophy and science.” (Brande.) Approximation. In medicine, a name given by Ettmuller to a pretended method of curing diseases by transferring them into the bodies of plants or animals. A'PKICOT. Syn. A'PEicoCEf; Aemeni'acum MA'LUM,Pe.ECO'tIUM,L.; ABEICOT,Fr.; Apei- KOSE, Ger. The fruit of armeni'aca vulga"ris (Lamb.; pru'nus armeniaca, Linn.), a rosaceous tree indigenous in Armenia, Cachmere, &c., and now cultivated in every temperate region of the world. Under the name of proecox, it was known in Italy in the time of Dioscorides; but it was not introduced into England until the reign of Henry VIII. (a.d., 1540). Its cultivation has since been zealously attended to by our gardeners, and it is now one of the choicest and most esteemed of our wall-fruits, and is particularly valued for desserts. It is reputed to be nutritious, easy of digestion, laxative, and stomachic. The seeds are bitter and saponaceous. Apricots are principally eaten as gathered; but are also dried, candied, and made into^'cw?. In confectionary, the Brussels and Breda varieties are preferred to the larger and sweeter kinds. See Feuit, Feeseeves, &c. Brian9on' Apricots. The fruit of armeni'aca brigantiaca (Pers.). Acidulous; seeds or Jeer, nels, by expression, yield huile de maemote. AP'TERANS. Syn. Ap'tees ; Ap'teea, L. In entomology, insects without wings. The aptera form the 7th order of the Linnaean class insecta. It includes numerous genera, among which are the bug, louse, spider, flea, ear-wig, &c., as well as the crab, lobster, prawn, and shrimp. It is the 12th order of Kirby, who, however, acknowledges it not to be a natural one. In Latreille’s system the term is no longer applied to designate an order. AP'TEEOUS. Syn. Ap'teeus, L. In ento. mology, wingless (see above). AP'YREXY. Syn. ApyeexTa, L. ; Apyeexie, Fr. In pathology, ^c., the cessation or inter- mission of a fever, particularly of an ague. AP'YRGUS^ (-ir-iis; apyr'ous — Mayne; apyr'ous—We.). Syn. Ap'yeus, L. ; Apyee, Fr.; FEUEEPEST,Ger. In chemistry, mineralogy, Sfc., incombustible ; unchanged by fire; applied to bodies which, like asbestos, mica, and talc, are capable of sustaining a strong heat with- out alteration or injury. Among old VTiters it was also applied to substances which had not been exposed to the action of heat f. A'Q.UA (-kwa). [L.] Water.—Aqua des- tilla'ta or A. distilla'ta, is distilled water; A. pluvia'lis or a. ex plu'mine (-in-e), river- water ; A. PONTA'NA, spring-water; A. MAEl'- NA or A. ma”eis, sea-water; a. mineea'lis, mineral water; A. niya'lis or a. ex ni'te, snow-water ; A. pluvia'lis, a. plu”via, or a. im'beium, rain-water, soft water; A. putea'- NA or A. EX pu'teo, well, pump, or hard water. Aqua. In chemistry and pharmacy, this word was formerly applied to numerous prepa- rations and articles now included under other heads. See Eaux, Espeits, Haie-dyes, Liquoes, Solutions, Watees, &c. Aquafor'tis. [L.] ‘strong water;’ the name given by the alchemists to the acid obtained by distilling a mixture of nitre and copperas. The word is still commonly em- ployed by mechanics and artists to designate the impure fuming nitric acid of commerce, and is thus also retained in trade. By these parties, concentrated nitric acid is called ‘spirit of nitre.^ ‘Double aquafortis’ merely differs from the other in strength. See Niteic Acid. Aqua Grse'ca, A. Orieiitalis. See Haie- dyes & Patent Medicines. Aqua Mari'na. [L.] The berylf. Aqua Mirab'ilis f. [L.] ‘wonder- ful water’; a cordial and carminative spirit