COFFEE. 46S colour after the precipitate has subsided, and the liquid appears brownish-yellow by re- Ifracted light. The addition of a little weak ammonia water aids the subsidence of the precipitate. 3. Koasted corn, beans, &c., may be detected by the cold decoction striking a blue colour with tincture of iodine. Pure coffee is merely deepened a little in colour by this substance. 4. Under the microscope, the presence of chicory may be readily detected by the size, form, and ready separation of the cells of the : cellular tissue, and by the presence and j abundance of the pitted tissue or dotted ducts, and vascular tissue or spiral vessels. Roasted corn, and other amylaceous substances, may 1 also be detected, in the same way, by the : peculiar size and character of their starch grains. Qual., 8fc, Coffee promotes digestion, and exhilarates the spirits, and when strong, ' generally occasions watchfulness, but in some ; phlegmatic constitutions induces sleep. Drunk in moderation, especially if combined with I sugar and milk, it is perhaps the most whole- ’ some beverage known. The various qualities that have been ascribed to it by some persons, such as dispelling or causing flatulency, re- moving dizziness of the head, attenuating the blood, causing biliousness, &c., appear to be I w'holly imaginary. In a medical point of view, it has been regarded as a cerebral stimu- I lant and anti-soporific, and as a corrector of I opium. As a medicine, it should be strong, land is best taken only lukewarm. Obs. A few years ago the attention of the scientific world was drawn to the value of roasted coffee leaves, as furnishing materials for a beverage unexcelled in excellence by the [coffee berry itself. The subject was first re- jferred to by Mr. Brande, some years since, I but although it was known that coffee leaves had been long so employed in Sumatra, under Ithe name of coffee-tea, the subject appeared I to create little interest, until Mr. N. M. Ward, of Padang, threw fresh light on the matter in the pages of the ‘ Singapore Free Press,^ and afterwards in those of the ‘Pharmaceutical Journal.’ It appears that the leaves, pre- pared for use, may be purchased for per lb., or packed ready for export at 2d. per lb. “ That this preparation contains a considerable amount of the nutritious principles of coffee is ^evident from the analysis; but as the leaves can only be collected in a good state at the expense of the coffee-bush, it is doubtful whether the coffees produced by the berries ibe not, after all, the cheapest, as it certainly is ithe best.” (Jury Report, Exhibition, 1851.) Coffee for the table is best prepared with the aid of a French cafetiere, or coffee biggin, [furnished with a percolator or strainer, which jWill permit a moderately rapid filtration. To [produce this beverage in perfection, it is inecessary to employ the best materials in its [preparation—and fresh ground. “At least 1 oz. of coffee should be used to make 3 common-sized coffee-cupfuls, with 1 teaspoonful of freshly roasted and ground chicory. If desired strong, the quantity of both should be doubled.” (Cooley.) Many habitual coffee drinkers cannot tolerate the use of chicory, which is a doubtful improver of coffee. The prevailing fault of the coffee made in England is its want of strength and flavour. The coffee-pot should be heated pre- viously to putting in the coffee, which may be done by means of a little boiling water. The common practice of boiling coffee is quite unnecessary, for all its flavour and aroma is readily extracted by boiling hot water. In- deed, all the “ useful and agreeable matter in coffee is very soluble; it comes off with the first waters of infusion, and needs no boiling.” (Ure.) Water is capable of removing all the soluble aromatic portion of coffee, even at a temperature so low as 195° Fahr., as we have often proved by actual experiment with one of Beart’s pneumatic filters, when a fluid, deliciously aromatic and sparkling, has been produced, and the grounds have only yielded a nauseous, bitter flavour, and faint colour, to fresh water, even hy boiling. Should pre- judice, however, induce the housewife or cook to boil her coffee, it should be only just sim- mered for a minute, as long or violent boiling injures it considerably. When coffee is prepared in a common pot, the latter being first made hot, the boiling water should be poured over the powder, and not, as is commonly the plan, put in first. It should then be kept stirred for 4 or 5 minutes, when a cup should be poured out and returned again, and this operation repeated 3 or 4 times, after which, if allowed to repose for a few minutes, it will generally become fine of itself. In all cases, when a percolator is not used, the liquor should be well stirred up several times before finally covering it up to settle for use. Coffee is sometimes clarified by adding a shred of isinglass, a small piece of clean eel or sole-skin, or a spoonful of white of egg. An excellent plan, common in France, is to place the vessel containing the made coffee upon the hearth, and to sprinkle over its surface half a cupful of cold water, which from its greater gravity descends, and carries the ‘foulness’ with it. Another plan sometimes adopted is to wrap a cloth, previously dipped into cold water, round the coffee-pot. This method is commonly practised by the Arabians in the neighbourhood of Yemen and Moka, and rapidly clarifies the liquor, unless a very large quantity of chicory is present. It should be recollected that the use of isinglass, white of egg, and all like artificial finings, remove much of the astringency and vivacity of the liquor. The French, who are remarkable for the superior quality of their coffee, generally allow an ounce to each large coffee-cupful of water.