1013 OPIUM. hours, and then allowed to settle, after which the supernatant liquid is decanted j 20 or 30 drops each of dilute sulphuric acid and solu- tion of sesquisulphate of iron are next poured on the precipitate (meconate of lead), when a deep and beautiful red colour will be de- veloped, if the original liquid contained opium. 4. (Dr. Rieget.) The suspected substance is mixed with some potassa, and is then agitated i with ether ; a strip of white unsized paper is ; next several times moistened with the solu-1 tion, and when dry it is re-moistened with j hydrochloric acid, and exposed to the sleam of \ hot water. The paper assumes a red colour, more or less deep, if opium is present. Uses, Sfc. Opium is one of the most valuable substances employed in medicine. In small doses it acts as a powerful and diffusible stimu- lant, in somewhat larger ones it is narcotic, and in excessive doses it proves an active nar- cotic poison. It is also anodyne, antispas- modic, diaphoretic, soporific, and sedative, its peculiar action being greatly modified by the dose and the condition of the patient. Its action as a stimulant is followed by sedative effects, which are, in general, much more marked than could be expected from the degree of previous excitement it induces. It is employed to fulfil a variety of indications— to procure sleep, to lull pain, allay irritation, check morbid discharges, alleviate cough and spasm, &c. &c. It also, when judiciously ad- ministered, renders the body less susceptible of external impressions, as those of cold, con- tagion, &c.; but it is injurious when the pulse is high, the heat of the body above the natural standard, and the skin dry, or when there is a disposition to local inflammation or congestion. When applied externally, in the form of fric- tions, liniments, ointments, &c., it is absorbed, i and produces similar effects to those produced by swallowing it, but in this way it requires to be used in larger quantities. JDose. As a stimulant, i gr., every 2 or 3 hours; as an anodyne and antispasmodic, to 1 gr.; as a soporific, i to 2 gr.; in violent spasms, neu- ralgia, acute rheumatism, &c., 2 to 4 gr., increased in delirium tremens, hydrophobia, mania, tetanus, &c., to several times that quantity, according to circumstances. i The use of opium as a stimulant and intoxi-1 cant is common among the nations of the | East. The Turks chew it, and the Chinese » smoke a watery extract of it, under the name ! of ‘cnuNDOO.^ Of late years opium-eating and LAUDANUM-TAKING have, unfortunately, been greatly on the increase in this country, and the employment of this drug as a soporific for infants and young children has become so general amongst the poor and dissipated as to call for the interference of the legislature. The frst effect of opium, as a stimulant, is to excite the mental powers and to elevate those faculties proper to man; but its habitual use impairs the digestive organs, induces consti- pation, and gradually lessens the energy c both the mind and body. In excessive quan tities it destroys the memory, induces fatuit and a state of wretchedness and misery, wliic after a few years is cut short by a prematur death. In this respect the effects of the ex cessive use of opium closely resemble those c fermented liquors. Pois. — Symptoms. Headache ; drowsiness stupor; frightful reveries; vertigo; cor tracted pupil (generally); scanty urine; prii ritus or dry itching of the skin, often accoir, panied by a papular eruption; thirst; drynes of mouth and throat; weak and low pulse vomiting ; respiration, generally, natura Sometimes the drowsiness or sleep is calm an peaceful. The lesions are trifling.—Ant., Vomiting must be induced as soon as possibh by means of a strong emetic and tickling th fauces. If this does not succeed, the stomacli pump should be applied. The emetic ma consist of ^ dr. of sulphate of zinc dissolved i \ pint of warm water, of which one thir should be taken at once, and the remainder a the rate of a wine-glassful every 5 or 1 minutes, until vomiting commences. \VTie there is much drowsiness or stupor, 1 or fl. dr. of tincture of capsicum will be found useful addition; or one of the formulae f EMETIC DEAUGHTS given at page 527 (especiall No. 7) may be taken instead. Infusion i galls, cinchona, or oak-bark, should be freel administered before the emetic, and wate soured with vinegar and lemon juice, after tl' stomach has been w’ell cleared out. To rous the system, spirit-and-water, or strong-cofft may be given. To keep the sufierer awaki rough friction should be applied to the skii an upright posture preserved, and walkin exercise enforced, if necessary. When this' ineffectual, cold water may be dashed over tli chest, head, and spine, or mild shocks of ele( tricity may be had recourse to. To allow tli sufferer to sleep is to abandon him to destruc tion. Bleeding may be subsequently nece> sary in plethoric habits, or in threatened co; gestion. The costiveness that accompanic convalescence may be best met by aromati aperients; and the general tone of the babi restored by stimulating tonics and the showe bath. The smallest fatal dose of opium in tli case of an adult, within our recollection, wf 4^ gr. Children are much more susceptibl of the action of opium than of other med cines, and hence the dose of it for them mu- be diminished considerably below that ind cated by the common method of calculatio depending on the age. See Doses, &c. Concluding remarks. Opium is a very con plicated substance, and contains a number ( alkaloids and other proximate vegetable pru ciples, besides a certain portion of saline mat ter. The substances already detected in i are caoutchouc, codeine, fatty matter, lignh meconic acid, meconine, morphine, narcem narcotine, odorous matter, opianine, papaverw