APPENDIX. 1384 2. (Dried; SOD^ Caebonas exsiccata.) Expose carbonate of soda, 8 oz., in a porcelain capsule, to a rather strong sand heat, until the liquid which first forms is converted into a dry cake; rub this to powder, and preserve in a stoppered bottle. (See page 1209.) Cabstic Soda (Soda Cadstica). Prom solution of soda, 2 pints, as caustic potash. Chloeinated Soda. Only in the form of Solution (which see). Hyposulphite of Soda. Named in Appen- dix as an article employed in chemical ana- lysis. page 1210.) Niteate of Soda. In Appendix, as an article employed in the preparation of medi- cines. {Seepage 1211.) Niteite of Soda. In the Appendix, under this head, a process is given for preparing a saline compound, containing a variable amount of nitrite of soda, never more than 25^. It is used in the preparation of spirit of nitrous ether. The process is as follows :—Mix nitrate of soda, 1 lb,, with recently burned charcoal, in fine powder, 1 oz., and drop the mixture, in successive portions, into a clay crucible, heated to dull redness. When the salt has be- come quite white, raise the heat so as to liquefy it, pour it out on a clean flagstone, and, when it has solidified, break it into fragments, and keep it in a stoppered bottle. Taeteate of Soda and Potash (SoDiE et PotassjE Taeteas; Sod^ Potassio-taeteas, Ph. L.). From acid tartrate of potash, 16 oz. (or q. s.); carbonate of soda, 12 oz. (or q. s.); boiling distilled water, 4 pints. As ordered by Ph. L. 1836 {page 1211). Phosphate of Soda (Sod^ Phosphas). Moisten bone ash, 10 lb., with sulphuric acid, and, after 24 hours, add, with constant stirring, distilled water, 1 gall.; digest for 48 hours, adding distilled water from time to time, to re- place what has evaporated. Again add dis- tilled water, 1 gall., digest for an hour, filter through calico, washing what remains with successive portions of distilled water till it has almost ceased to have an acid reaction, and, having concentrated the filtrate to a gallon, let it rest 24 hours, then filter again. Heat the filtrate nearly to boiling, add carbonate of soda, 16 lb. (or q. s.), dissolved in distilled water, 2 gall., till it ceases to precipitate and the fluid becomes feebly alkaline. Filter through calico, evaporate the filtrate, and set it aside to crystallize. More crystals may be obtained by evaporating the mother-liquor, adding, if necessary, a little carbonate of soda, to maintain its alkalinity. Dry rapidly, without heat. (See page 1211.) Valeeianate of Soda. Placed in Appendix, with the Ph. D. process. (See page 1212.) Sodium (Chloride of). See Salt. Solutions. There are 22 medicinal solutions (Liquores), among which there are several new preparations. These, with the solution of persulphate of iron, which is placed in the Ap- pendix, are noticed below, and should be com- pared with those described on pages 1214 to 1222. The solutions employed in qualitative and quantitative analysis are enumerated under Test Solutions. Solution of Acetate of Ammonia (Li- QUOE Ammoni.® Acetatis). Neutralize ace- tic acid (10 fl. oz., or q. s.) with strong solution of ammonia (3| fi. oz., or q. s.). This contains almost 5 times as much acetate of ammonia as the'Ph. L. solution, and 6 times as much as the Ph. E. and D. preparations. (See page 1214.) Solution of Ammonia. 1. (Liquoe Am- monia.) Strong solution of ammonia, 1 pint; distilled water, 2 pints. Sp. gr. *959. 2. (Strong; LiQ. Ammonia foetioe.) Hydrochlorate of ammonia, 3 lb.; slaked lime, 4 lb.; mix, and introduce into an iron bottle placed in a metal pot surrounded by sand. Connect the bottle by suitable tubes with 2 empty Woulf’s bottles, each of 1 pint capa- city, a matrass, capable of holding 3 pints, containing 22 fl. oz. of distilled water, and an ordinary bottle, containing 10 fl. oz. of distilled water. The second Woulfs bottle and matrass are furnished with safety tubes. Heat, gradually raised, is applied to the metal pot, and continued until bubbles of conden- sible gas cease to escape from the glass tube which dips into the water of the matrass. The process being terminated, the matrass will contain about 43 fl. oz. of * strong solution of ammonia’ (sp. gr. ‘891). The coloured ammo- niacal liquid in the Woulf’s bottles may now be heated in a flask, and the evolved gass passed into the water contained in the terminal bottle used in the preceding process. When the coloured liquid is reduced to f of its original bulk, the solution in the terminal bottle will be nearly the proper strength (sp. gr. ‘891), and may be made exactly so by the addition of distilled water or more gaseous ammonia. (See page 153.) Solution of Aeseniate of Soda (Liquoe SoDiE Aeseniatis). Dissolve arseniate of soda (rendered anhydrous by a heat not ex- ceeding 300°), 4 gr., in distilled water, 1 fl. oz. New. Bose. 5 to 10 minims; in certain skin diseases. Aesenical Solution (Liquoe Aesenica- Lis). This is the ‘ solution of arsenite of po- tassa’ noticed on page 1216. The formula agrees exactly with that of Ph. L. Solution of Ateopia (Liquoe Ateopi.®). Dissolve atropia (in crystals), 4 gr., in rectified spirit, 1 fl. dr., diluted with distilled water, 7 fl. dr. New. Solution of Chloeinated Lime (Liquoe Calcis Chloeat^). As in Ph. D. (See Prep. 1, page 1217.) Solution of Chloeinated Soda (Liquoe Sod.® Chloeat.®). Pass the gas obtained by heating black oxide of manganese, 3 oz., and chloride of sodium, 4 oz., with sulphuric acid, 2^ fi. oz., and distilled water, 3 fl. oz., through a solution formed by dissolving carbonate of