1263 TAMARA—TANNIC ACID. j contents of the vessel, having been allowed to j settle for three or four hours, must be drawn , oft' into the coolers. j As commercial stearic acid frequently con- tains undecomposed tallow, as well as various j foreign matters, this process is occasionally i unsuccessful. To obviate the inconveniences i connected with the use of this impure material, I the candle may be run at two operations, as follows:—“ The stearic acid, treated as above, I is exposed for a month to the sun, by which [ means the foreign matters are oxidized, and ! tlie bleached stearic acid acquires a dirty yel- i low colour; the oxidized blocks are then melted I in tvater containing a little sulphuric acid, at j about 150° Fahr.; an addition of about 10 per j cent, of good white wax (or spermaceti) is next I made, and the whole boiled for half an hour; the white of an egg, previously beaten up in a j quart of water, is then added to each 1 cwt. of \ stearic acid, the temperature of the mass having been reduced to 100°, or at most 120° j Fahr., after which the mixture is again well 1 stirred and boiled, when the liquid soon becomes clear, which is seen by the dark colour it assumes. "This mixture of stearic acid and wax or spermaceti is very suitable for forming the ex- terior coating of the candle ; it is transparent, and of perfect whiteness, and, as it is devoid of oxalic acid, it does not injure the moulds; whilst at the same time, as it is less fusible than pure stearic acid, candles made with it do not run. This first coating may be run hot without crystallizing; the interior of the candle, being protected from without against too sudden a cooling, may also be run some- iwhat hot j by this means the candle acquires a w'hiteness and a transparency wdiich cannot be realised by other processes.” (‘ Le Moni- teur Industriel.’) The sulphuric acid saponification of inferior \tallow and other solid or semi-solidfally bodies is now carried out on a very large scale for producing the cheaper varieties of ‘ steaeine CANDLES.’ For this purpose, the tallow ovfat is mixed with 5 or of concentrated sulphuric acid, and exposed to a steam heat of 350° to 360° Fahr. After cooling, the black mass thus obtained crystallizes to a tolerably solid fat, which is w'ell washed once or twice with water, or high-pressure steam, and is then submitted to distillation by the aid of steam heated to about 560° Fahr. The product of the distilla- \tion is beautifully w’hite, and may be at once I used for making candles. It is better, how'- |ever, to first submit it to the processes of cold land hot pressing, wdiereby a much more solid jfat is obtained. I According to M. Pohl, palm oil or palm 1 TALLOW is most easily purified by simple ex- Iposure to a high temperature, provided it has I been first w'ell defecated. When quickly heated I to about 465° Fahr., and kept at that tem- Iperature for from 5 to 15 minutes, it is com- jpletely decoloured. The product has a slight empyreumatic odour, but this diappears by age, exposure, or saponification, and the natural violet odour of the oil returns. Cast-iron pans should be employed in this process, and should be only 2-3rds filled, and well covered during the operation. By the distillation of sulphurated palm oil in closed vessels, at a heat ranging from 570° to 600° Fahr., from 68g to 75§ of a mixture of palmitic and palm-oleic acid passes over, of which 25g to 30g is colourless, hard, and crystal- line, and the rest darker and softer. (Pohl.) The residuum in the still is a fine hard pitch. Most of the methods of bleaching and refining the fatty oils noticed at page 952 also apply to the crude talloivs and fats of commerce. See Candles, Fat, Glycerin, Oils (Fixed), Stearic Acid, &c. TAMAR'A. A mixed spice used in Italian cookery, consisting of cinnamon, cloves, and corianders, of each, 2 parts; aniseed and fennel seed, of each 1 part. TAM'AEIND. Sijn. Tamarindus (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. The pulp or preserved fruit or pod of the Tamarindus Indica, or tamarind tree. In the Ph. L. tamarind pulp (tama- rindus PR.EPARATUS) is Ordered to be obtained by macerating tamarinds, 1 lb., with water, q. s. to cover them, by a gentle heat, for 4 hours, and completing the process as directed for prepared prunes. Tamarind pulp is refrigerant and gently laxative. Mixed with water, it forms a grate- ful acidulous drink in fevers, &c. TAN BALLS. See page 257. TAN'NATE. Syn. Tannas, L. A salt of tannic acid. TAN'NER’S BARK. The best of this is oak hark ; but the hark of the chestnut, wiltow, larch, and other trees which abound in tannin, are also used for preparing leather. TAN'NIC ACID. Syn. Tan, Tannin, Gallo-tannic ACiDf; Tanninum, Acidum Tannicum (Ph. L. D. & U. S.), L. A peculiar vegetable principle, remarkable for its astriii- gency and its power of converting the skins of animals into leather. Prep. 1. Precipitate an infusion of galls with a concentrated solution of carbonate of potassa, avoiding excess; wash the precipitate with ice-cold water, dissolve it in dilute acetic acid, filter the solution, precipitate it Avith acetate of lead, wash the precipitate wdth water, suspend it in water, and decompose it by means of a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen; lastly, evaporate the filtered liquid in vacuo, or over sulphuric acid. 2. (Berzelius.) To a hot infusion of galls add a few drops of sulphuric acid; agitate, filter, and add, gradually, to the filtered liquor sulphuric acid, diluted with its own Aveight of water, until the precipitate, after standing for an hour, is found to form a semi- fluid glutinous mass; then decant the liquid, and mix it carefully Avith concentrated sul- phuric acid as long as a precipitate forms;