324 BLACK PIGMENTS. merly prepared by carbonising the residuum of the ^stillation of spirit of hartshorn. I'vory-Black. Syn. Cae'bo eb'oeis, E'bue tts'tum ni'geum, L. ; NoiE d’ivoiee, &c., Er.; Elpenbeinschwaetz, Kohle von el- FENBEIN, Ger. From waste fragments and turnings of ivory, by careful exposure in co- vered crucibles, avoiding excess of beat or over- burning. The whole having been allowed to become quite cold, the crucibles are opened and their contents reduced to fine powder. For t\\Q first quality only the richest coloured por- tion of the charcoal is selected, and this, after being powdered, is ground with water on por- phyry, washed on a filter with warm water, and then dried. A very rich and beautiful black. It is brighter than even peach-stone black, and is quite free from the reddish tinge of bone- black. With white-lead it forms a rich pearl- gray. See Bone-black {ante). Jamai'ca-Black (-ma'-). Sugar-black. Lamp'-Black. Syn. Fuli'go lucee'n.®, F. pi'nea, &c., L. ; Noie be eumee, &c., Fr.; Kieneuss, &c., Ger. Prep. 1. (On the small scale.) A conical funnel of tin-plate furnished with a small pipe to convey the fumes from the apartment, is suspended over a lamp fed with oil, tallow, coal-tar, or crude naphtha, the wick being large and so arranged as to burn with a.full smoky flame. Large spongy, mush- room-like concretions of an exceedingly light, very black, carbonaceous matter, gradually form at the summit of the cone, and must be collected from time to time. The funnel should be united to the smoke-pipe by means of wire, and no solder should be used for the joints of either. 2. (Commercial) On the large scale, lamp- black is now generally made by burning bone- oil (previously freed from its ammonia), or common coal-tar, and receiving the smoke in a suitable chamber. In the patented process of Messrs. Martin and Grafton, the coal-tar is violently agitated wdth lime-water until the two are well mixed, after which it is allowed to subside, and the lime-water having been drawm off, the tar is washed several times with hot water. After subsidence and decantation, it is put into stills, and rectified. The crude naphtha in the receiver is then put into a long cast-iron tube furnished with numerous large burners, underneath which is a furnace to heat the pipe to nearly the boiling point. Over each burner is a sort of funnel which goes into a cast-iron pipe or main, which thus receives the ‘ smoke ’ from all the burners. From this ‘ main ’ the smoke is conveyed by large pipes to a succession of booees or chambers, and thence into a series of large canvass-bags arranged side by side, and connected together at top and bottom alternately. Fifty to eighty of these ‘ bags ’ are employed; the last one being left open to admit of the escape of the smoke, which has thus been made to traverse a space of about 400 yards. As soon as the bags con- tain any considerable quantity of black, they are removed and emptied. The black depo- ! sited in the last bag is the finest and best, and i it becomes progressively coarser as it approaches ' the furnace. ' Obs. The state of minute division in which the carbon exists in good lamp-black is such as cannot be given to any other matter, not even by grinding it on porphyry, or by ‘ elutriation’ or ‘ washing over' with water. On this ac- count it goes a great way in every kind of painting. It may be rendered drier and less oily by gentle calcination in close vessels, when it is called buent lamp-black, and may then be used as a water-colour; or its greasiness may , be removed by the alkali-treatment, noticed i under Indian ink. It is the basis of Indian ink, ^ printer's ink, and most black paints. i Russian Lamp-black is tbe soot produced by j burning the chips of resinous deal. It is ob- jectionable chiefly from being liable to take fire ‘spontaneously’ when left for some time moistened with oil. Manganese'-Black (-neze'-). Native bin- > oxide of manganese. Durable and dries well. New'castle-Black. From the richer-looking i varieties of pit-coal by grinding, and elutria- tion. Brownblackor, inthinlayers,deep brown. ( It is, perhaps, “ the most useful brown the « artist can place on his palette; being remark- ably clear, not so warm as Vandyke-brown, and serving as a shadow for blues, reds, and yellows, when glazed over them. It seems almost cer- tain that Titian made large use of this mate- rial.” See Blue-black {ante). Opor'to-Black. Carbonised wine-lees. Par'is-Black, Noir de Paris. From turnePs i bone-dust, treated as for ivory-black. Works j well both in oil and water. It is commonly I sold for real ivory-black, and for burnt lamp- < black. Peach-stone Black. From the stones or kernels of peaches, cherries, and other similar HI fruits, treated as for ivory-black. A bright, rich black; works well with oil; with white- lead and oil it makes ‘ old gray I Pit'coal-Black. Newcastle-black. Prus”sian Black (prush'-an). Composition- black. Rice'-Black. Rice-charcoal. Inferior. Rus''sian Black. See Lamp-black. Soot'-Black (soot'-). The soot of coal-fires, ground, and sifted. Used in common paint, and to colour whitewash; with Venetian-red and oil, it makes chocolate-colour; also used to make gray mortar. Span'ish Black. From cork-cuttings car- bonised, as bone-black. Resembles Frankfort- black, but works softer. Sug'ar-Black (shoog'-). Carbonised moist- sugar. Has little ‘ body,’ but for washing drawings is equal in mellowness to Indian ink and bistre. Sun'derland-Black. Newcastle-black. Turn'er’s Black. Paris-black. Vine'-twig Black. Frankfort-black. Wheat'-Black (hwete'-). Carbonised wheat.