314 BISCOTIN—BISCUIT. of their leaves and steins, that the remaining skeleton of network, in a few days withers and dies. But this is not all—the columns of our * diurnals’ bring us continual reports of failing grain-crops in the neighbourhoods in which these ‘ bird-clubs’ have existed for any length of time, and that even on land previously remarkable for its fertility.^ Did this loss fall only on the benighted beings who so wilfully cast back the blessings of an all-wise, protect- ing Providence, it would be a just retribution; but, unfortunately, it affects the whole nation, and threatens, ere long, unless arrested by legislation, to prove a national calamity. The only apparent remedy for the evil, at present, is the diffusion of information tending to shew that the farmer and the gardener, in de- stroying ‘ small birds,’ destroy their best EEIENDS. [For farther information respecting birds, see Aves, Aviaet, Bied {ante), Game, Gee- man Paste, Nests (Edible), Potjltey, Pu- TEEEACTION, TaXIDEEMT, TeUSSING, &C.] BIS'COTIN. [Fr.] A small biscuit. In cook- ery, 8fc., a species of confection made of eygs, flour, marmalade, and sugar, variously com- pounded and flavoured according to the taste of the operator. BIS'CUIT (-kit). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Buccel- lA'TTJM, Pa'NIS bis COC'TUS, L. ; SwiEBACK, Ger.; Biscotto, It.; BizcoCHO,Sp. Literally, * twice-bakedappr., a well-known variety of hard, dry, unleavened bread, made in thin flat pieces. Those prepared for seamen (sea'-bis- CUITS, cap'tain’s b.2) are composed of flour and water only. When made of flne flour, and a few caraway seeds are added, they are com- monly called Ab'eene'thy biscuits. Fancy biscuits generally contain a little sugar and butter, to which almonds, caraways, mace, ginger, lemon, and other articles, technically called ^flavourings’ are frequently added. Prep. On the small scale, biscuits are made by forming the flour and water into a dough by the common process of hand-kneading, occasionally assisted with a lever, as in making ordinary bread. The ‘ dough’ is then rolled into a sheet, and cut into pieces of the desired size and form. These, after being stamped, are exposed to the heat of a moderately quick oven, when a few minutes (12 to 18, according to their size) are sufficient to bake them. On the large scale, the whole manual pro- cess, from preparing the dough to the point at wffiich the newly made biscuits are ready for baking, is now generally performed by ma- chinery. The articles so prepared are com- monly known in trade as ‘ m a chine-made BISCUITS,’ and are not only much cheaper, but of fully equal quality to those ‘made by hand.’ In the bakehouses of her Majesty’s Victualling yards at Deptford, Gosport, and Plymouth, the 1 See the “Times” and other leading ‘journals’ for 1862. 2 A captain's biscuit differs from a common ‘sea- biscuit ’ ill being made of finer flour. ingenious machinery invented by Mr. T. T. i Grant, is employed. These establishments ji are said to be capable of producing annually ' above 8000 tons of sea-biscuits, at a saving of 1 upwards of 12,000/. a year, from the cost that would have been incurred for the purpose on j the old system. Under the latter, it is stated, that wages, and wear and tear of utensils, cost ! about Is. 6d. per cwt. of biscuit; whilst under ’ the new system, the cost is only hd. Large private machine-biscuit manufactories are now in full operation in various parts of the king- dom—London, Carlisle, Edinburgh, Norwich, i Reading, &c., by which a complete revolution ! has been effected in the trade. To the supe- rior quality of the products of some of these, and particularly of the biscuits, both plain and j fancy, made by Huntley and Palmer, of Read- ing, we bear most willing testimony, founded on our personal use and careful examination of them. The allowance of biscuit to each seaman in the royal navy is 1 lb. per dayj or, on the average, six biscuits. Fan'cy Biscuits. The varieties of these are ' almost innumerable. In a printed list now before us, we observe the names of upwards of one hundred different kinds. These are pro- duced by varying the number 2LXid proportions of the ingredients used in their composition, and the form and size in which they are ‘ turned out of hand.’ They are further modi- fied by the relative heat of the oven, as well as the length of time they are allowed to remain in it. It would, therefore, be waste of space to give particular directions for the preparation of each. The proportions of butter and sugar, or either of them, may be from 1 oz. and upwards, to flour, 1 lb.; according to the degree of richness desired. In a few cases, milh, or eggs, or both, are introduced. The ^flavourings ’ embrace a wide range of sub- , stances—bitter-almonds, caraways, cassia, cin- namon, ginger, mace, nutmeg, lemon, orange- peel, orange-flower water, essence of peach ker- ; nets, vanilla, ^c., Sfc.; many of which give their name to the biscuit.—Ae'eow-eoot BISCUITS are usually made of equal parts of arrow-root and /oMr; meat'-biscuits, from about 1 part of tean meat (minced small and pulped) beaten to a dough with about 2 parts of flour, and a little seasoning, no water being addedso'da biscuits, by adding 1 to 2 dr. of sesquicarbonate of soda to each lb. of flour. In most other cases, the mere inspection of the biscuit will convey to the experienced biscuit-baker and cook sufficient information to enable him to produce an exactly similar one, or at least a very close imitation. The richest kind of sponge'-biscuits, as we are informed, are made as follows: —Add the whites and yelks of 12 eggs, previously well beaten, to 1| lb. of flnely powdered sugar, and whisk it until it rises in bubbles, then add 1 3 Tor the meat-bisccits used in the navy, and by travellers, see under Meat.