949 -OILS (DRYING). ! ODONTALGIA- I I I have a yellow colour. Aemenian bole, j Indian bed, Venetian e., and Spanish i BEOWN, are also ochres. All the ochres are darkened by calcination. I The yellow ochres acquire a red or reddish- i brown colour by this treatment. The pig- j ment called ‘ light eed ^ is thus prepared i from yellow ochre, f ODONTAL'GIA. See Toothache. f O'DORAMENTS. 8yn. Odoeamenta, L, I Substances employed in medicine on account [ of their odour. They differ from disinfectants, j in only disguising, but not destroying, noxious vapours, &c. Ammonia, steong vinegae, I and PASTILLES, furnish the most familiar I examples of this class of substances. See j Disinfectants, Peefumes, &c. I O'DOUR. The emanation of an odoriferous I or scent-giving body. , See Peefumes. (EDE'MA. In pathology, a swelling or puffi- ness, arising from water or serum collecting in the cellular membranes. It is a local or minor species of dropsy. (ENAN'THIC ACID. Syn. Pelaegonic ACID. Prep. By digesting oenanthic ether with a hot solution of caustic potassa, alcohol distils over, and a solution of oenanthate of potassa remains in the retort; this is decoiuposed by warm dilute sulphuric acid, and the oily liquid (ceude cenanthic acid) which separates is purified by repeated washings with warm water. It may also be procured by the action I of nitric acid on essential oil of rue. Prop., Sfc. A liquid of a slightly disagree- able odour, boiliilg at 500° Fahr. It dissolves readily in alcohol. See Ethee ((Enanthic). (ENANTHYLIC ACID. A peculiar com- I pound, possessing acid properties and an aro- Imatic odour, obtained by the action of nitric acid on castor oil. OFFICINAL. Syn. Officinalis, L. A term applied to substances or medicines or- dered in the Pharmacopoeia. OIL. Syn. Oleum, L. ; Huile, Fr. This Iname is given to numerous liquid or semi- jliquid substances, expressed or drawn from I animal or vegetable bodies; to various pro- Iducts of the distillation of bituminous mine- rals ; and to several unctuous mixtures in per- fumery and pharmacy. To facilitate reference, iwe have grouped the principal substances [generally called ‘oils* into classes, under the following heads;—Oils (Drying); Oils (Em- pyreumatic); Oils (Fixed); Oils (Medicated); Oils (Mineral); Oils (Mixed); Oils (Per- fumed); Oils (Volatile). See these articles, also below:— ConsoTidated Oil. Syn. Campticon, Fac- titious CAOUTCHOUC. A substance having most of the properties of India rubber, pre- pared by oxidizing boiled linseed oil, or any j other oil that hardens on exposure to the at- mosphere. To obtain the solid oil, plates of glass are dipped into linseed oil, the films are then allowed to dry, and the process is [repeated again and again until the plates are coated with many layers of perfectly oxidized oil. Instead of plates of glass, extensive sur- faces of prepared cloth are employed when the manufacture is carried out on a large scale. The solid oil, having been scraped or peeled off the surfaces, is worked with a small pro- portion of shell-lac, by means of a mixing machine with hot rollers, until a‘material singularly like caoutchouc is produced. The consolidated oil can be rolled on to fabrics, so as to form a waterproof cloth, having the finish and flexibility of rubber-cloth. By the action of heat the consolidated oil may be converted into a ](%vd. substance, resembling vulcanite and ebonite. Its useful applications appear to be very numerous, but its manu- facture has not as yet made much progress. OIL-GAS. A mixture of several gaseous hydrocarbons, obtained by passing oil through red-hot tubes, or by allowing it to fall in drops on red-hot stones or bricks arranged in an iron retort, or other suitable apparatus. Common whale or other cheap animal oil is the raw material used. The gas has great illuminating power, requires no purification, and is quite free from the ammoniacal and sulphur compounds which vitiate coal-gas. The high price of oil prevents the general use of this gas for illuminating purposes. OILS (Drying). All the fixed oils have an attraction more or less powerful for oxygen, and, by exposure to the air, they either be- come hard and resinous, or they only thicken slightly, and become sour and rancid. Those which exhibit the first property in a marked degree, as the oils of linseed, poppy, rape, and walnut, are called ‘ deying oils,* and are used as vehicles for colours in painting. The others are frequently termed ‘ glutinous* or ‘ NON-DEYING OILS.* The resinifying or drying property of oils is greatly increased by boiling them, either alone, or along with some litharge, sugar of lead, or white vitriol, when the product forms the ‘BOILED OIL* or ‘DEYING OIL* (OLEUM desiccativum) of commerce. The efficacy of the process, according to Liebig, depends on the elimination of substances which impede the oxidation of the oil. The following for- mulae are adopted for this purpose:— 1. Linseed oil, 1 gall.; powdered litharge, f lb.; simmer, with frequent stirring, until a pellicle begins to form; remove the scum, and when it has become cold and has settled, decant the clear portion. Dark coloured; used by house-painters. 2. Linseed oil and water, of each, 1 quart; white vitriol, in powder, 2 oz.; boil to dry- ness. Paler than the last. 3. Pale linseed or nut oil, 1 pint; litharge or dry sulphate of lead, in fine powder, 2 oz.; mix, agitate frequently for 10 days, then set the bottle in the sun or a warm place to settle, and decant the clear portion. Very pale. 4. Linseed oil, 100 gall.; calcined white vitriol (‘sulphate of zinc*), in fine powder. I