CHLOROUS ACID—CHOCOLATE. 439 CHI0"R0US ACID. Syn. Acidum chloeo'- ! BUM, L. Prep. From ehlorate of potassa, 4 parts; arsenious acid, 3 parts j nitric acid, 12 i parts; (diluted with) water, 4 parts; heated ! together in a glass flask, furnished with a bent tube, and placed in a water bath. It must be , collected in the same way as chlorine, or passed ' into water, when it forms liquid chlorous acid. Prop., 8fc. Chlorous acid is a greenish yel- i low gas, non-condensable by a freezing mix- ture of salt and ice, but liquefiable by extreme ; cold. The aqueous solution undergoes gra- dual decomposition, yielding chloric acid and chlorine. Chlororis acid possesses powerful I oxidizing and bleaching properties; with the I bases it unites, forming salts called chloeites. I These are all soluble in water, and bleach like ! the acid. They may be recognised by the evolution of chlorous acid gas when acted on I by an acid. The use of the arsenious acid is ■ to deoxidize the nitric acid employed in the process. Tartaric acid, or other deodorizing agent, may be substituted for it. CHL0R0VALE"RIC acids. Two substi- 1 tution products are obtained by the action of ' chlorine on valeric acid, as described below. 1. Trichlorovale"ric Acid. Syn. Chloeova- i lEEi'siC ACID. Prep. Dry chlorine is passed I for some time into pure valeric acid, in the ! dark, and when the gas begins to be languidly : absorbed a little heat is applied. i Prop., Sfc. Semifluid; acrid; odourless; ■ heavier than water; perfectly fluid above 86? j Fahr.; a strong heat decomposes it; with water it forms a liquid hydrate. 2. Q,uadrichlorovale"ric Acid. Syn. Chlo- j EOVALEEO'SIC ACID. Prepared by acting on ■ the preceding product, for some time, with chlo- i vine, in the sunshine. It greatly resembles ' trichlorovaleric acid, but is more pungent. Both are soluble in ether and alcohol. CHLO"RURET.* See Chloeide. I CHOC'OLATE. Syn. Chocola'TA, L. ; I Chocollatl, Mexican; Chocolat, Fr. A I beverage or paste made from the roasted seeds ! of the Theobroma Cacao, or Cocoa. Strictly speaking, the term “ chocolate” is applicable to all genuine preparations of cocoa, but it is now generally used to distinguish those which contain sugar, and, commonly, flavouring sub- stances. Samples of chocolate were brought home from the New World by Columbus in 1520, and Prescott tells us that the Spaniards found Montezuma drinking frothed chocolate, flavoured with vanilla. In Spain this article of food has been in common use since the time of its introduction into Europe. Its use gra- dually extended to other countries, and became particularly popular in France, which country now takes the lead in the manufacture of cho- colate. The “ excellent West India drink,” as it was called, was first sold in England about the middle of the 17th century by a Frenchman. Of late years great attention has been paid to the manufacture of cho- colate in England; our principal makers now import the finest descriptions of cocoa, and produce varieties of the manufactured article which are scarcely inferior to those of their French rivals. The different kinds of cocoa, and the processes of roasting, sweating, &c., are described under Cocoa, to which article we refer the reader also for particulars re- specting the chemistry of chocolate. Prep. The cocoa nibs^ are ground in a mill consisting of stone or metal rollers, which are usually heated either by charcoal fires or by steam, so as to soften or melt the natural fat.^ The warm, smooth paste which passes from the mill is then placed in a mixing mill, and incorporated with refined sugar, and usually vanilla or other fiavouring substance. The tri- turation is continued until the whole paste is converted into an entirely homogeneous mass, which is finally shaped, by means of suitable moulds, into various forms, as blocks, loaves, tablets, lozenges, &c. Obs. Chocolate, prepared as above, without the addition of aromatics, is known in the trade as plain chocolate. The Spaniards flavour it with vanilla, cloves, and cinnamon, and frequently scent it with musk and am- bergris. With these additions it is termed Spanish chocolate. In general, they add too large a quantity of the last four articles. The Parisians, on the contrary, use little fla- vouring, and that principally vanilla. They employ the best kinds of cocoa, and add a con- siderable quantity of refined sugar. So pre- pared, it is called Feench chocolate. Proportions. 1. Feench Chocolate :—The proportions used for the best description are said to be—2 beans of vanilla, and 1 lb. of the best refined sugar, to every 3 lb. of the choicest cacao nuts. 2. Spanish Chocolate :—The following forms are said to be commonly adopted :— a. Caracas cocoa, 11 tb.; sugar (white), 3 lb. ; vanilla, 1 oz.; cinnamon (cassia), i oz.; cloves, I dr. b. Caracas cocoa, 10 lb.; sweet almonds, 1 lb.; sugar, 3 lb. ; vanilla, 1^ oz. c. Caracas cocoa, 8 lb. ; island cocoa, 2 lb. ; white sugar, 10 lb. ; aromatics, as above. d. Island cocoa, 7 lb.; farina, q. s. to absorb the oil. Inferior. 3. Vanilla Chocolate. Syn. Chocolat A LA VANiLLE, Fr. A Variety of French or Spanish chocolate highly flavoured with va- nilla. The following proportions have been recommended:— a. Caracas cocoa, 7 lb.; Mexican vanilla, 1 oz.; cinnamon, ^ oz.; cloves, 3 in no. b. Best chocolate paste, 21 lb.; vanilla, 4 oz. ; cinnamon, 2 oz. ; cloves, f dr.; musk, 10 gr. Obs. The vanilla used in making chocolate is reduced to powder by rubbing it with a little sugar, before adding it to the paste. Pur., S^c. “ The chocolate commonly sold in 1 The hiTiised, roasted seeds, freed from husk and mem- brane. ® Cacao- or cocoa-butter.