678 GALLIC FERMENTATION. 2. (Graham.) A strong infusion or decoction of galls is precipitated witii sulphuric acid, in the cold; the resulting’ thick mass is mixed with dilute sidphuric acid (cold), and the liquid expressed; the ‘ marc’ is next treated with sidphuric acid, diluted with twice its weight of water, and after boiling the mixture for some minutes, the whole is allowed to cool; the re- sulting crystals are purified as before. 3. (Liebig.) A strong aqueous solution of tannic acid (tannin) is added to sulphuric acid, ns long as a precipitate falls; the powder is collected, washed, and dissolved by the aid of heat in dilute sidphuric acid; the solution, after being boiled for a few minutes, deposits, on cooling, crystals of gallic acid in considera- ble quantity. 4. (Scheele.) A filtered decoction of galls is exposed for some months in an open vessel; after a time it grows mouldy, and becomes covered with a thick, glutinous pellicle; in two or three months the sides of the vessel and the under portion of the pellicle are found to be covered with small yellow crystals of gallic acid, which are purified as directed above. (See No. 1.) 5. (Ph. D.) The Dublin Ph. contains two formulee for gallic acid, the one being based on that of Dumas or Scheele, the other on that of Graham or Liebig.—a. From galls (in coarse powder), 1 lb. ; water, q. s. to make a stiff paste; a porcelain dish is ordered, and the exposure in the moistened condition is to be continued for 6 weeks; the solution of the first crop of crystals is to be made in 10 fl. oz. of boiling water, and when the filtrate has cooled to 80'’ Fahr., it is to be poured off from the crystals which have formed, which are then to be washed with ice-cold water, 3 fl. oz., and dried—first in blotting paper, and finally by a steam or water heat. By boiling the undissolved portion of the galls with 45 fi. oz. esi fresh water, more crystals may be obtained. b. Powdered gall-nuts, 1 lb., are steeped for 21 hours in water, 1 pint, and after being placed in a porcelain displacement apparatus, are treated with water, 1^ pint, added in suc- cessive portions; oil of vitriol, 5 fl. oz., diluted with an equal volume of water, and allowed to cool, is now added to the percolated infusion, and after thorough admixture, the liquid is filtered from the viscid precipitate which forms; oil of vitriol, 5 fl. oz. (diluted as before), is then added to the filtrate; the precipitates, enveloped in calico, are submitted to power- ful pressure, and subsequently dissolved in oil of vitriol, 16 fl. oz., previously diluted with water, 56 fl. oz.; the solution is boiled for 20 minutes, and set aside for a week; at the end of this time the deposit which forms is dis- solved in three times its weight of boiling water, and the solution treated as before. Prop. Gallic acid forms small, feathery, and nearly colourless crystals, which have a beau- tiful silky lustre; that of commerce is usually of a pale-yellow colour; it is soluble in 100 parts of cold water, and in 3 parts of boiling water; it is also soluble in alcohol, and slightly so in ether; the aqueous solution is decomposed by exposure to the air; dissolved in hot oil of vitriol, it forms a deep, rich, red solution, which, when thrown into water, drops the gallic acid, deprived of some of its water. This substance is soluble in the alkalies, and dyes cloth like madder. When strongly heated, gallic acid is converted into meta- aAiLic ACID, or into PYEOaALLic ACID, ac- cording to the manner in which the heat is applied. Tests. Gallic acid is distinguished from TANNIC ACID by not affecting solutions of gelatin, the protosalts of iron, or the salts of the alkaloids, and by giving a deep bluish- black precipitate with the sesquisalts of iron, which disappears when the liquid is heated. It is distinguished from PTEOGALLIC ACID by its inferior solubility in water, and by its not affecting the solutions of the protosalts of iron. To detect gallic acid mixed with tannic acid, the latter should be removed, either by di- gesting the substance in ether, or by im- mersing for some time in its solution a piece of skin depilated by lime, previously to applying the tests. Pur. “ Free from colour; decomposed by heat; soluble in water and in rectified spirit. It turns preparations of the sesquioxide of iron, dissolved in water, of a bluish-black colour, but throws down nothing from a solu- tion of isinglass.” (Ph. L.) Uses, Sfc. The principal use of pure gallic acid is in the art of photography. It has recently been employed in medicine, as an internal astringent, in doses of 3 to 10 gr., thrice a day, or oftener; in hcemorrhage and fluxes, as well as for checking the night sweats in phthisis. Dr. Todd says, that in all cases of internal hsemorrhage, or hiemorrhagic ten- dency, it is the best astringent or styptic we possess. As an external astringent, it is greatly inferior to tannic acid. It has been given in doses of 15 to 30 gr. in tape-worm, “but without any benefit.” (Pereira.) Purific. Gallic acid, as obtained by either of the above forms, is never quite pure; but it may be rendered absolutely pure by com- bining it with oxide of lead, and decomposing the compound {gallate of lead) by sulphuretted hydrogen. The sulphuret of lead acts like animal charcoal in removing the colour. (Lie- big.) Commercial gallic acid “may be ren- dered nearly white by dissolving it in 20 times its weight of boiling distilled water, and causing the solution to traverse a stratum of prepared animal charcoal spread upon a calico filter. When the liquid passes through colourless, it should be evaporated to l-6th its volume, and then suffered to cool, in order to the separa- tion of the crystallized acid.” (Ph. D.) GALLIC FERMENTATION. This name has been given to the peculiar process by which tannic acid is converted into galiic acid,