CONSUMPTION—COPAIBA. 477 may be had recourse to; but their habitual administration, as well as that of purgative medicines generally, by the mouth, is not to be recommended. The bowels, accustomed to the continual use of stimulants, act but lan- I guidly or scarcely at all without their appli- cation. In females, especially of the higher classes, the want of proper exercise is com- I monly the chief cause of this affection. With I such persons, a short walk, two or three times I daily, will often do wonders, particularly if a ' little ripe fruit, a few raisins or tamarinds, or, ' still better, 2 or 3 drum figs, be occasionally ! eaten. In some cases of obstinate constipa- I tion a cold-water dressing, placed over the pit of the stomach or the abdomen, will cause the bowels to act in the course of an hour or two. When the inactivity of the bowels arises from i a deficiency of bile (one of the most common ! causes), no remedy is more natural, or more i effective, than inspissated ox-gall. In cases i complicated with nervous, hypochondriacal, or hysterical affections, in chlorosis, dyspepsia, depraved appetite, and numerous other ail- I meiits, this remedy frequently succeeds, after the most active articles of the materia medica have been tried in vain. In the treatment of the constipation of INFANTS, castor-oiltea-spoonful occasionally), or manna (5 to \ oz., sucked at will), may be I given. The introduction (very gently) of a little slip of writing paper, parsley stalk, or ! suet, is a method sometimes adopted success- fully by nurses. Friction on the stomach and bowels with the warm hand, or a piece of soft flannel, should also be employed. See GtALL, I PUEGATIVE, &C. I CONSUMP'TION. See Phthisis. j! CONTA'GION. See Disinfectant. !' CONTU'SION. A hurt, or injury to the flesh, such as might be caused by a blunt in- strument or by a fall, without breach or appa- rent wound. For treatment, see Beuise. COPAI'BA. Syn. Copai'va, Copaiva bal- sam, CapivT, Balsam of CapivT ; Copai'ba i(Ph. L. E. & D.), L.j Baijme de copahu, ' Fr.; COBAITA BALSAM, Ger. An oleo-resin, i flowing from the incised stem” of “ Copaifera I multijuga (Hayne) and other allied species.” (Ph. L.) Most of the balsam of commerce is I obtained from Para and Maranhao. It is packed in casks containing from 1 to cwt. each, or in large bottles, or in cylindrical tin boxes. i Prop,, Purific., ^c. Copaiba, though usually ’called a ‘balsam,’ is not correctly so named, ; as it contains no benzoic or cinnamic acid. It is correctly described in the Ph. L. as an ‘ oleo-resin.’ Considerable variation exists in I the colour, odour, consistence, and transpa- i rency, as well as in the proportion of oil and resin yielded by different samples, scarcely ; any two of which exactly agree. The sp. gr. varies from -950 to ‘OOG. Beazilian co- paiba is thin, clear, and pale; Avhilst the 'West Indian variety is thick, golden yellow. less transparent, and has a less agreeable and somewhat terebinthinate smell. Some varie- ties are opaque, and continue so unless filtered. This is often a most troublesome operation. The opacity generally arises from the presence of water, which it retains with great tenacity. The following is the plan we have found to answer on the large scale:—Place the casks upon their ends in a warm situation, and leave them so for 10 days or a fortnight, or longer, if convenient. They may then be tapped a little above the bottom, when the contents of some of them will generally be found quite trans- parent, and may be drawn oft* and vatted, care being taken to avoid shaking up the bottom. The copaiva that remains foul must be filtered through one or more long Canton flannel bags, sunk in the bottom of a tin cistern, placed over a suitable receiver, in a similar way to that adopted for oils; a few pounds of coarsely powdered charcoal being mixed up with the first 5 or 6 gallons thrown in. This will rapidly fill up the pores of the bag, and make the balsam soon flow clear and pale. The “ bottoms” of the casks, containing the water and impurities, may be poured into a large can or jar, and allowed to settle for a few days, when the copaiba may be poured off the top and filtered. A sudden change of temperature will frequently turn a transparent sample of this article opaque or milky; it is not, there- fore, deemed fit to “send out” by the whole- sale trade, unless it stands this test. To ascertain this point, a common practice is to fill a small bottle with the copaiba, and to leave it out of doors all night in an exposed situation. Pur., Tests, Sfc. This substance is frequently adulterated; indeed, fully one half that sold for copaiba does not contain I02 of the genuine balsam. This is particularly the case with that sold in capsules, at low prices, in the shops. Pure balsam of copaiba may be recog- nised by the following characters:— 1. (Ph. E.) It is “transparent; free of turpentine odour when heated; soluble in 2 parts of alcohol; and dissolves one fourth of its weight of carbonate of magnesia with the aid of a gentle heat, and continues trans- lucent.” 2. (Chevallier.) A drop of the balsam, placed on a piece of unsized paper, and heated until all the essential oil is expelled, forms a semi- transparent, well-defined spot; but if the balsam has been adulterated with a fatty oil, it is sur- rounded by an oily areola. 3. (Planche.) 2^ parts of balsam shaken with 1 part of liquor of ammonia, sp. gr. *965, forms a mixture which becomes clear and transparent in a few moments, and may be heated to 212° Fahr. without becoming opaque. 4. (Vigne.) Boiled with 50 times its weight of water for 1 hour, it should lose at least half its weight. 5. (Adder.) By agitating the suspected