I I CREAM. 489 !is more completely effected, and the product is !not only better, but will keep longer. I QuaL Cream, in a dietetic point of view, |may be regarded in the same light as butter, ■as it is converted into butter in the process of /digestion. On this account, much cream should Inever be taken at once by persons of delicate stomachs. In eating cream with fruit, per- |sons are hardly aware of the large quantity c' |they consume, until they find it disagree with [the stomach, when the condiment is blamed ifor the indiscretion of those who take it. See ■ Milk, Buttee, &c. I Al'mond Cream. Prep. From sweet almonds, l2 oz.; hitter almonds, 4 in no.; blanched and ^ [beaten in a mortar to a smooth paste, adding a teaspoonfal of water to prevent oiling; and, afterwards, a pint of cream, and enough pow- dered lump sugar to sweeten; the whole is i then whisked to a froth, the glasses filled with ‘’ll the liquor, and some of the froth placed on 4 the top of each. Some persons add the juice “* o/’a lemon. ’ Bran'dy Cream. Prep. To the last, add the yolks of 6 eggs; heat it gently over the fire ’111 until it thickens, keeping it well stirred, then i further add 2 or 3 glassfuls of brandy, and il; pour it into small cups or shallow glasses. Burnt Cream. Prep. Cream, 1 quart; cassia, :*)i a small stick; peel of half a lemon; boil for 5 II; minutes, cool a little, take out the spice, and add the yolks of 9 eggs, and sugar, q. s. to f« sweeten; stir until cold, put it into a dish. Jit strew pounded sugar over it, and bake it until i;, I brown. Choc'olate Cream. Prep. Chocolate, scraped 1 fine, 1 oz.; thick cream, 1 quart; sugar (best), it 6 oz.; heat it nearly to boiling, then remove :!■ it from the fire, and mill it well; when cold, I add the whites 8 or 10 eggs ; whisk rapidly, jj and take up the froth on a sieve; serve the il cream in glasses, and pile up the froth on the [1» bop of them. r> Coffee Cream. Prep. 1. As the last, omiV/ew^ ( the chocolate, and using a pint of the strongest [lit *nade coffee. f,j 2. Add a teacupful of very clear, concen- ff, V.rated, made coffee to 1 pint each of clarified fj. calf’s feet jelly and good cream ; sweeten with nl \ump sugar, give it one boil up, and pour it a into shapes or glasses when nearly cold. If Cold Cream. See Cosmetic Ceeate and [ii (jEANULATED CeEAM {below). lei I Costorph'in Cream. After a village near ill; [Edinburgh, where it is commonly made, tiy j^rep. The milk of 3 or 4 consecutive days, h together with the cream, are allowed to dj j‘emain until sour and coagulated; the whey jj, !s then drawn off, and fresh cream added. It js eaten with sugar and fruit, especially with jj (.trawberries and raspberries, jef Dev'onshire Cream. Prep. 1. (Devonshiee jjij lilAW Ceeam.) From sour cream mixed with I;) jin equal quantity of fresh cream, and sweet- 1^,11 [ wed with sugar. Eaten with fruit. ; 2. (Devonshiee Scalded Ceeam, D. i I Clouted C.) The milk of yesterday is set in a polished, shallow, brass pan, over a clear fire ~ free from smoke, and gradually heated until very hot, care being taken not to let it boil; when the undulations on the surface look thick, and form a ring round the top of the fiuid, the size of the bottom of the pan, it is removed from the fire and allowed to cool; the next day it is skimmed off for sale. Used with either tea or coffee, and excellent with both; it is also eaten with sugar and fruit, and is made into butter. See Ceeam {above). D’lllotte’s Cream. Syn. Cetstallized CEEAM, Vegetable c. The ingenious manu- facturer whose anagrammatic powers have converted his patronym of Elliott into one less familiar to vulgar English ears, prepares this really elegant hair cosmetic as follows :— Oil of almonds, 3 oz., and spermaceti, \ oz., are melted together; and bergamot, neroli, and verbena, of each, 5 drops, and huile au jasmin, 10 drops, are then stirred in, and the mixture is at once poured into small, wide- mouthed bottles, to crystallize. If preferred harder, \ dr. more spermaceti may be used, but the precise quantity to produce the best crystalline appearance depends greatly on the season of the year, more being required in winter than in summer. Facti"tious Cream. Syn. Mock ceeam. Prep. 1. Beat 3 eggs, with 2 oz. of sugar, and a small piece of butter, until the combi- nation is complete; then add, warm milk, 1 pint; put the vessel into another containing hot water, and stir it one way until it acquires the consistence of cream. 2. Arrow-root, 1 spoonful; wet it with a little cold milk, then add, gradually, boiling milk, i pint; mix well, and further add, of fresh butter, 1 oz.; sugar, oz.; cold milk, f pint; and continue stirring until the whole is quite cold. Ice Cream. See Ice. Fruit Cream. Prep. From pulped or pre- served fruit, 1 lb.; cream, or good raw milk, 1 quart; sugar, q. s.; boil for 1 minute; cool, and add a glassful of brandy. A froth is raised on these creams with a chocolate mill. It is taken off, and placed on a hair sieve, and some of it, after the glasses are filled with the cream, placed on the top of each. The ex- pressed juice of raspberries, of currants, and several other kinds of fruit, also make delicious creams. In winter, raspberry jelly, jam, or syrup, may be used. A glass of good brandy improves these creams. Fur'niture Cream. See Polish. Gran'ulated Cream. Syn. Geanulated COLD CEEAM. Prep. (Oweu.) Almond oil, 6 oz., white wax and spermaceti, of each, 2 oz., are melted together, and a little otto of roses added; the liquor is then poured into a large Wedgewond-ware or marble mortar, previously warmed, and containing to 2 pints of warm water ; brisk agitation with the pestle is then had recourse to, until the oleaginous portion