SKINS—SMOKE PREVENTION. 1203 (•e commonly sold under the name of milk 'p EOSES, CEEAM OF EOSES, &c., is equally in- jirious. Another disadvantage of these metallic L'parations is, that they readily turn black hen exposed to the action of sulphuretted Ivdrogen gas, or the vapours of sulphur, such i; frequently escape into the apartment from j)al fires. There are many instances recorded " a whole company being suddenly alarmed the pearly complexion of one of its belles |;ing thus transformed into a sickly gray or lack colour. I In conclusion, it may be remarked that the ,!st PUKIFIERS of the skin are soap and water, jllowed by the use of a coarse but not a stijf \jth, in opposition to the costly and smooth \npers that are commonly employed; and the I'st BEATJTIFIERS are health, exercise, and \od temper. SKINS (of Animals). The preparation and eservation of fur skins are noticed under ^LTRY; the preparation and uses of the skins 1 the larger animals under Leather, Tan- |ng, Tawinh, &c. I SLACK. Small coal, such as is used for kilns. I SLAG. The semi-vitrified compounds, pro- iced, on the large scale, during the reduction j metallic ores by fluxes. Those from iron Id copper works are often used for building literials, mending roads, &c. 'SLATE. The excellence of this material for V.ter-cisterns deserves a passing notice here. Irish slate (lapis Hibernicus) is an argil- j:eous mineral, said to contain iron and sul- jur, found in diflferent parts of Ireland. It I a common remedy, among the vulgar, for ‘ternal bruises, taken in a glass of gin. I SLEEP. Syn. SoMNtrs, L. After being j ake for 16 to 18 hours, a general feeling of pakness and fatigue comes over us; “our otions become very difficult, our senses lose ]eir activity, the mind becomes confused, peives sensations indistinctly, and governs bscular contraction with difficulty. We re- Ignise by these signs the necessity of sleep; ji choose such a position as can be preserved Ith little effort; we seek obscurity and silence, |d sink into the arms of oblivion.” jThe slumberer loses in succession the use of 1} senses. The sight first ceases to act by ie closing of the eyelids; the organs of taste ixt become dormant, followed by the sense \smell; after these the sense of hearing loses I activity, or ceases to act altogether; the isceptibility of touch is lost; the complete ilaxation of the muscles follow—at first those the limbs, then those of the neck, and, \tly, those of the spine, give way; the respira- l>n becomes slower and deeper, and sleep is iimd and complete. In some cases, the sense I hearing is the last to fall asleep, and, when le other senses have become completely dor- |mt, revels in increased activity. See Watch- flNESS, &c. i SMALLPOX. See1139. .SMALTS. 5yu. Azure, Powder blue. Siliceous b.. Smalt; Azueum, Smalta, L. This consists, essentially, of glass coloured by fusing it with protoxide of cobalt. Prep. 1. Cobalt ore is roasted, tO drive off the arsenic, then made into a paste with oil of vitriol, and heated to redness for an hour ; the residuum is powdered, dissolved in water, and the oxide of iron precipitated with carbonate of potassa, gradually added, until a rose-coloured powder begins to fall; the clear portion is then decanted, and precipitated with a solution of silicate of potassa (prepared by fusing together, for 5 hours, a mixture of 10 parts of potash, 15 parts of finely ground flints, and 1 part of charcoal); the precipitate, after being dried, is fused, and reduced to a very fine powder. A very rich colour. 2. Roasted cobalt ore and carbonate of potassa, of each, 1 part; siliceous sand, 3 parts; fuse them together, and cool and powder the re- siduum. Used as a blue pigment, also to colour glass, and for ‘blueing’ the starch used to get up linen. See Blue Pigments. SMELLTNG SALTS. See Salts. SMELLOME’S EYE SALVE. See Eye Ointment {page 994, No. 15). SMELT. A beautiful little abdominal fish abounding in the Thames, and a few other rivers, between the months of November and February. It is esteemed a great delicacy by epicures, but sometimes proves offensive to the delicate and dyspeptic. SMOKE PREVEN'TION. Although the full consideration of this subject belongs to public hygiene and civil engineering, its immediate application and advantages are interesting and important to everybody. The history of ‘ smoke burning' scarcely com- mences before the year 1840, at which date Mr. Charles Wye Williams obtained a patent for this purpose. Since that time a ‘ thou- sand-and-one’ schemes, either patented or non-patented, professedly for the same object, have been brought before the public. Most of these have been supported by the most reckless statements regarding their value, made by interested parties; and the most serious inconvenience and losses have often followed their adoption. Williams’s method is to admit an abundant supply of cold air through a large number of small perforations in the door and front part of the furnace. Lark’s method is based on the admission of heated air, under due regulation, both through the door, and at the bridge or back of the fur- nace, by which means combustion is rendered more complete, and smoke thereby prevented. Ivison’s plan consists in the introduction of steam by minute jets over the fire, which is thus greatly increased in intensity without the production of smoke, and wdth a saving of fuel. In Jucke’s arrangement the grate-bars of a furnace are replaced by an endless chain w'eb, which is carried round upon two rollers, in such a ■way that each part of the fuel is exposed to conditions most favourable for per-