HORSE BALLS—HUMUS. 733 Injuries of a serious character, and even! death, are often occasioned by horses ^ running away’ or becoming unmanageable. Various methods have been proposed to prevent acci- dents of this kind, and to place the animal en- tirely under the power of its rider or driver. In Russia, around the horse’s neck, near the neck strap, is placed a cord with a running knot. To this slip-noose is attached a pair of reins, which always lie thrown over the dash- boards, ready to be seized at once. When the horse starts, and becomes unruly, the gentle- man takes up this cord, and tightens the horse’s throat, so that he cannot take breath. The most furious horse stops instantly, and will not fall or kick. HORSE BALLS. See Vetekinaey Medicine. HORSE POW'ER. This term was first em- ployed by James Watt, to express a power I capable of raising 33,000 lb. one foot high per I minute. The effective pressure on the surface j of the piston was estimated at 7 Ih. to the j scpiare inch, and hence the area of the piston, j in square inches, multiplied by 7, gave the gross effective moving pressure, and the space | passed over by this piston in a minute gave the ! distance through which the pressure was ex- j erted, or the weight was raised. From these I data the horse-power was easily calculated. In process of time improvements in the for- mation of boilers and steam engines increased the effective pressure on the piston, and, consequently, the power of the engine. In mo- dern engines the actual power is commonly from 2 to 4 times greater than the nominal power, which is, however, still retained as the unit of power in commercial calculations. HORSE-RADISH. Syn. Aemoeacia (Ph. L.), Radix cochleaeia aemoeacia (Ph. E.), L. “ The fresh root of Cochlearia Armoracia.” (Ph. L.) Horse-radish is pungent, acrid, sti- mulant, and rubefacient. It is also regarded as diaphoretic, diuretic, and antiscorbutic. It forms a useful masticatory in hoarseness, sore- throat, and toothache. As a condiment, it provokes the appetite and assists digestion. Reduced to shreds (sceaped hoese-eadish), it forms a common and excellent accompani- ment to roast beef. The root of aconite or wolfsbane, which somewhat resembles it in appearance, has occasionally been mistaken for it, with fatal results; the two are, however, readily distinguished from each other, as the taste of horse-radish is warm and pungent, .approaching that of mustard, whilst aconite is bitter, and its odour is earthy and disagree- able, and after a few minutes’ contact with the lips, tongue, and fauces, produces a sensation of numbness and tingling. HoESE-EADisn POWDEE is prepared from the roots gathered in November or December, and dried by a gentle heat or exposure to a current of dry air. It is used as a condiment. HOR'TICULTURE. Syn. Gaedening. The art of cultivating gardens. According to Loudon, horticulture differs from agriculture, chiefly in the comparatively limited space over which it extends, and in being conducted by manual labour ; whilst the latter is performed jointly by human and animal labour, in fields, or in an extensive tract of land called a farm. HOR'TUS-SIC'CUS. See Heebaeium. HOS'PITAL GAN'GRENE. Syn. Piiage- DASNA GANGEENOSA, L. A specics of ulcer- ating mortification, particularly characterised by its infectious nature, and its tendency to attack wounds and ulcers in crowded hospitals, so that often the most trifling operation can- not be performed with safety. Under its influence the parts are rapidly destroyed, not by the formation of ordinary sloughs, as in common mortification, but by their conversion into an ash-coloured viscid substance inter- spersed with bloody specks. The treatment is similar to that noticed under Moetipication, but here, above all things, thorough ventila- tion must be established, and persevered in, and, when possible, change of situation sought. HUILE. [Fr.] Oil; a term applied to various substances and preparations on account of their smoothness, consistence, or real or imaginary emollient or oleaginous nature, j See Liqueue, Oil, &c. I Huile Acoustique. Prep. From garlic and hay leaves, of each, i oz.; olive oil, \ lb.; boiled together for 15 minutes, and strained. Used in ear-ache and deafness. A little is dropped on cotton wool and placed in the ear. Huile Antique. See Oils (Hair). Huile Liqueureuse. Prep. 1. (De laeose.) From eau de rose, 1 part; simple syrup, 2 parts; mixed together. 2. (Des eleijes d’oeanges.) From orange- flower water and syrup, as No. 1. I 3. (De vanille.) From essence of vanilla, ! 1 dr.; simple syrup, 1 pint, j Ohs. The above are kept in small decanters, I and used to flavour w^ater, grog, liqueurs, &c., instead of sugar or capillaire ; also to perfume the breath. Other flavoured syrups, for the same purposes, are prepared in a similar manner. HU'MIC ACID. Syn. Ulmic acid. See Humus. HU'MULIN. The name given to a beautiful extract or essence of hops, made as follows :— A concentrated tincture of hops is prepared by ^percolation’ with rectifled spirit; the same hops are then exhausted with teaser; the spirit is removed from the tincture by careful distillation, and the upper aqueous portion is skimmed off, and added to the infusion, which latter is then evaporated to the consistence of a soft extract; the oleo-resinous residuum of the tincture is next added, and w'ell mixed in; after which the whole is put into pots and carefully tied over for sale. The product possesses all the fragrant, tonic, and bitter qualities of the hop in a highly condensed form. See Hops, Lupulin, &c. HU'MUS. Syn. Ulmin. When wood, or woody fibre, is exposed to the joint action of