725 HALL MARKS-HAMS. 16 oz.; mix, sift through lawn, and at once bottle the mixture. Used like No. 1. Mixed •with water, it is said to dye the hair black; with milk, brown. 26. W/ii(e lead, 1 oz.; fresh slaked lime, oz.; litharge and oxide of bismuth, of each, I ^ oz.; water, 1 pint; mix, boil 15 minutes, ! -vNuth frequent agitation, cool, pour it into a bottle, add of liquor of ammonia, i tt. oz., shake I the wliole frequently for some hours, and the j next day pour off the liquid portion from the j white sediment wdiich forms the dye. Used \ like No. 1. It is applied for 8 or 10 minutes for a brown; 30 minutes, or longer, for a 1 black. For the first, it is washed off with I w^ater containing a little common soda, j 27. The juice of the bark or shell of green I walnuts, applied with a sponge. (Paulus iKgineta.) 28. A leaden comb used daily is said to darken the hair, but we have known persons I persevere in its use for months without any 1 perceptible change occurring. Premature baldness is a frequent consequence of its use. Obs. It is right to inform the reader that all those compounds which contain nitrate of j silver stain the skin as well as the hair. These stains may be removed, when quite recent, by rubbing them with water containing a little hydrosulphuret of ammonia (see above) or I iodide of potassium in solution; but as this is j attended with some trouble and inconvenience, I the best way is to avoid the necessity of doing I so. The hair-dressers adopt the plan of I smearing hard pomatum over the skin imme- i diately surrounding the hair, to protect it I from the dye. By very skilful manipulation, I and the observance of due precautions, the I hair may be thoroughly moistened with the ' above fiuids, •without touching the adjacent ; skin, but this can only be done, in the case of j the hair of the head, by a second person. I This has led to a preference being given by I many to the compounds containing lead, as the colouring matter formed in them does not \ stain the skin. The hue given by the latter i {when pale) is very apt to possess an un- I natural redness, but all the shades of colour I given by the preparation of silver are rich I and unexceptionable. Pyrogallic acid, and the juice of walnuts, also stain the skin, al- though less intensely and permanently than nitrate of silver. The detection of dyed hair is often a matter I of importance in medico-legal research. The j presence of silver may be shown hy digesting I the hair in a little iveak chlorine water or j hydrochloric acid, when the resulting chloride I of silver may be dissolved out with liquor of j ammonia, and submitted to the usual tests. I Hair containing lead, when digested in dilute j nitric acid, gives a solution of nitrate of lead, I in which form it is readily detected. Sec j Lead and Silyeii. All the preceding compounds are for dyeing j living hair (human); horse-hair, bristles, &c., and other dead hair, may be readily stained by steeping them in any of the ordinary liquid dyes, more especially those employed for wool and silk. See Pommades, Washes, &c. HALL MARKS. The ‘Hall Marks’ on articles in gold and silver not only inform us of their fineness, but furnish us with other important particulars. The Hall Mark (proper) denotes the place of manufacture or assay, being an anchor, for Birmingham; a dagger or 3 wheat sheaves, for Chester ; Hibernia, for Dublin ; castle and lion, for Edinburgh; castle wdth 2 wings, for Exeter; tree and salmon with a ring in its mouth, for Glasgow; leopard’s head, for London; 3 castles, for Newcastle-on-Tyne; a crown, for Sheffield; and five lions’ heads and a cross, for York. The Duty Mark is the head of the Sove- reign, showing that the duty is paid. The Date Mark is a letter of the alphabet, which varies every year, and with the different companies, thus: the Goldsmith's Company of London have used from 1716 to 1755 Roman capital letters; from 1756 to 1775, small Roman letters; from 1776 to 1795 old Eng- lish letters; from 1796 to 1815, Roman capital letters, from A to U, omitting J; from 1816 to 1835, small Roman letters, a to u, omitting j ; from 1836, old English letters. The Standard Mark for gold is, for England, a lion passant; Edinburgh, a thistle ; Glasgow, a lion rampant; Ireland, a harp crowned. For silver, a figure of Britannia. If under 22 carats, gold has the figures 18. The Manufacturer’s Mark is the initials of the maker, as S. H., W. T., C. E., &c. HAL'OGENS. In chemistry, a name given by Berzelius to those substances which by their combination with the metals produce saline compounds. Bromine, chlorine, cy- anogen, fluorine, &c., are halogens. The com- pound bodies thus formed are termed ‘ haloid SALTS.’ HAMS. These are usually prepared from the legs of bacon pigs, but those of the sheep are also sometimes used for the same purpose. Smoked ham is strong eating, and rather fit for a relish than for diet, and should be parti- cularly avoided by the dyspeptic and by con- valescents. Choice. A sharp knife thrust under the bone should have a pleasant smell when with- drawm. The recently cut fat should be hard and white, the lean fine-grained, and of a lively red. Those short in the hock are the best. Curing. An ordinary sized ham requires nearly three wrecks, if tvet salted, and about a montli if dry salted, to cure it perfectly. At the expiration of this time they arc ready for smoking. Mutton hams should not lie in pickle longer than 12 or 14 days. Cooking. Hams should be put into the water cold, and should be gradually heated.