MACERATION—MADDER RED. 870 MACERATION. Syn. Maceeatio,L. The steeping of a substance in cold water, for the purpose of extracting the portion soluble in that menstruum. The word is also frequently applied to the infusion of organic substances in alcohol or ether, or in water, either alka- lized or acidulated. MACK'EREL. Th e Scomber scombrus (Linn.), a well-known spiny-finned sea-fish, much es- teemed at certain seasons for the table. Though nutritious, it is very apt to disagree with deli- cate stomachs, and occasionally induces symp- toms resembling those of poisoning. MAD'DER. Syn. Rubia, RuBiiE eadix, L. The root of Rubia tinctorum (Linn.), or dyer’s madder. The best madder has the size of a common goose-quill, a reddish appearance, and a strong odour. As soon as the roots are taken from the ground they are picked and dried; and before use, they are ground in a mill. Levant, Turkey, and Smyrna madder, is imported whole ; French, Dutch, and Zea- land madder, ground. The finest quality of ground madder is called ‘ crop’ or ‘ gra2)pe * ombro’ and ‘ gamene* are inferior sorts, and * mull’ the worst. Madder contains several distinct principles, as—MADDEE EED, Or AEIZAEIN;—MADDEE PUEPLE, or PUEPUEIN ;—MADDEE OEAXGE, 01’ ErBIACIN;—MADDEE YELLOW, Or XAXTHIN, &c. The first of these (noticed below) is by far the most important. Pur. Madder is frequently adulterated with logwood, Brazil wood, and other dye-stuffs of inferior value; and also, not unfrequently, with biick-dust, red ochre, clay, sand, maho- gany sawdust, bran, &c. These admixtures may be detected as follows :— 1. When dried at 212° Fahr., and then incinerated, not more than 10§ to 12g of ash should be left. 2. It should not lose more than 50g to 56g by exhaustion wdth cold water. 3. When assayed for alizarin (see beloiv), the quantity of this substance obtained should be equal to that from a sample of the same kind of madder which is known to be pure, and which has been treated in precisely the same manner. The operation may be conducted as follows :—500 gr. of the sample are weighed, and, after being dried by the heat of boiling water or steam, are gradually added to an equal weight of concentrated sulphuric acid, con- tained in a glass vessel, and stirred with a glass rod; after a few hours the charred mass is washed with cold water, collected on a filter, and dried by the heat of boiling water; the carbonized mass (‘GAEANCIXe’) is next pow- dered, and treated with successive portions of rectified spirit to which a little ether has been added, at first in the cold, and afterwards with heat, until the liquid is no longer coloured by it, when the mixed tincture is filtered, and evaporated (distilled) to dryness; the weight of the residuum, divided by 5, gives t\\eper-cent- oqe of red colouriny matter present. Or,— The dried carbonized matter is exhausted by boiling it in a solution of 1 jJart of alum in 5 or 6 parts of water, and the decoction, after being filtered whilst in the boiling state, is treated with sulphuric acid as long as a preci- pitate falls, which is washed, dried, and weighed as before. Uses, Sfc. Madder has been given in jaun- dice and rickets, and as an emmenagogne. Dose, i dr. to 2 dr., twice or thrice a day. It is principally employed as .a dye-stuft’. See Red Dyes, Ivoey, Puepueix, &c., also below. MADDER RED. Syn. Alizaein. The red colouring principle of madder, first obtained in a separate form by Robiquet. Prep. 1. The aqueous decoction of madder is treated wdth dilute sulphuric acid as long as a precipitate falls, which, after being washed, is boiled in a solution of sesquichloride of alu- minum as long as it gives out colour; the liquid is then filtered, precipitated with hydro- chloric acid, and the precipitate washed and dried. It may be purified from a little ad- hering PUEPDEix, by dissolving it in alcohol, again throwing it down with hydrate of alu- mina, boiling the precipitate with a strong so- lution of soda, and separating the alizarin from its combination with alumina by means of hydrochloric acid; it is lastly crystallized from alcohol. 2. (Meillet.) Alum, 3 parts, is dissolved in water at 140° Fahr., 30 parts, and madder, 13 parts, added to the solution; the whole is then gently boiled for 30 or 40 minutes, after which it is thrown upon a filter, and sub- mitted to strong pressure; this treatment is repeated with fresh solutions a second and a third time; the mixed filtrates are then de- canted, and when nearly cold, oil of vitriol, 1 part, diluted with twice its bulk of water, is added, care being taken to stir the liquid all the time; the supernatant fluid is next de- canted, and the residuum well washed, and, lastly, dried in the air. If required quite pure, it is dissolved, whilst still moist, in a solution of It times its weight of carbonate of potassa in 15 parts of water, eaiCi, after reprecipitation with sulphuric acid, is wmshed and dried as before. 3. (Robiquet & Colin.) Powdered madder is exhausted with water of a temperature not exceetling 68° Fahr., and, after being dried, 1 part of it is boiled for 15 or 20 minutes in a solution of alum, 8 parts, in water, 40 parts; the liquid is filtered whilst boiling, the marc well washed with a fresh solution of alum, the mixed liquids precipitated with sulphuric acid, and the precipitate wmshed and dried, as before. Obs. The above formula) produce alizaein more or less pure. 4. Madder exhausted by 2 or 3 macerations in 5 or 6 times its weight of cold water, is submitted to strong pressure, to remove ad- hering waiter, and the marc, whilst still moist, is mixed with ^ its w’eight of oil of vitriol di- luted U'ith an ee^ual qxianlity of vjatcr; tho