546 ELECTROTYPE. ‘negative electrodes.* The substance com- monly employed is plumbago or ‘ blacic lead.^ It must be in the condition of an impalpable powder. It is rubbed briskly over the surface of the mould (wax, stearine, plaster, &c.) by means of a strong, fine camel-hair brush, till the whole presents the well-known black-lead polish. The adhesion of the plumbago may be often promoted by breathing slightly on the mould. To cause it to adhere to sealing- wax impressions, the wax may be slightly moistened with spirits of wine, or exposed to the vapour of etlier. Delicate moulds and objects, which cannot well be black-leaded, may be covered with a condircting film of silver, by first dipping them in bisulphuret of carbon holding about ^^th part of phosphorus in solution, and then, after a few seconds, im- mersing them in a weak solution of nitrate of silver, and allowing them to dry in the light. Metallic moulds require no preparation. The VOLTAIC APPAEATLS used may now be described. The single-cell arrangement, used for small works, is formed on the principle of Daniell’s ‘ Constant Battery.* ^ It consists of a vessel of glass, earthenware, or wood, con- taining a smaller cell of thin ‘ biscuit ware’ or other porous material a rod or plate of amal- gamated zinc^ placed within the porous cell, and a wire connecting the zinc with the mould to be copied; the latter being placed in the outer vessel. The annexed figure represents a convenient form of the single-cell: — a. Au oval vessel of salt-glazed earthenware or wood, nearly tilled with a saturated, solution of sulphate of copper. • b. A porous diaphragm, containing the cylinder or plate of zinc (c), and tilled with dilute sulphuric acid, d. A small bar of brass or copper, fastened to the vessel by the binding screws (e, e), and supporting the plate of zinc ic), by the hook of copper wire (/), and the mould (g), by tlie kook (h). i. A small shelf or partition to support crystals of'sulphate of copper, to keep up the streugtli of the solution. The battery arrangement has many advan- tages over that described above, and should always be employed when large objects are to be electrotyped, or when a number of small moulds are to be operated upon. In this arrangement the copper solution is electrolysed in a separate vessel, termed the ‘ decomposition ^ See Voltaic Ei.ectricitx. 2 See Diaphragm, page 518. 3 Zinc rods or plates are ‘ amalgamated’ by wetting them with water and sulphuric acid, and at the same lime rubbing mercury over them till a bright coating is pro- duced. cellf and the ‘ current * generated by one or more cells of a Daniell’s or a Smee’s battery. This arrangement is shown in the following engraving:— a. A constant battery cell. b. Decomposition cell; a cubical vessel made of wood or earthenware, and filled with a mixture of 1 part of dilute sulphuric acid (1 acid -b 9 water), and 2 parts of saturated solution of sulphate of copper, by measure. c, c, c. Moulds suspended to the brass rod (/), and con- nected with the zinc or positive element of the battery {a), by means of the screw {g). d, d. Pieces of sheet copper suspended on the brass rod (h), and connected with the zinc end of the battery, by means of the screw (i), employed to keep up the strength of the cupreous solution iu the decomposi- tion ceU. To connect the moulds with the zinc or ‘positive element,* stout copper wires or strips of thin sheet copper are employed. In the case of a non-metallic mould, the wire must lead directly to the plumbagoed surface, or, what amounts to the same thing, the plum- bago must be extended to the point of attach- ment. The connecting wires, and the backs and edges of metallic moulds, must be covered with sealing-wax varnish,’^ or other non-con- ducting substance, to prevent them receiving the deposit. Before a mould is placed in the copper solution it is advisable that everything should be arranged, so that the immersion may occasion immediate voltaic action. If the connection between the zinc and the mould is not effected until after the immersion, the solution may act chemically on the surface of the mould, and cause the deposit to appear dark and dirty. When a mould has remained in the solution long enough to receive a com- plete coating of copper, it may be lifted out, with impunity for examination. If every- thing is going on well, the deposited metal will present a brilliant, light, copper-coloured sur- face. When suflBciently thick, the deposit is removed with care, washed, and placed to dry. Electrotype medals may be polished with ‘ wash-leather * and the ‘ plate brush,’ or bronzed.^ Various natural objects, such as insects, fruits, &c.; small works of art, such as busts and statuettes; chemical vessels, par- ticularly glass flasks and retorts; and numer- ,,, ous classes of articles, may be rendered less ' fragile by coating them with copper by the elec- trotype process. II. Deposition of the Peeciohs Me- See Varnish (Sealing-wax). See page 368, for the various methods of bronzing. I