1222 SOLVENT—SPARTEINE, (Ph. D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Liquor of diacetate of lead, 1^ fi. dr.; proof spirit, 2 fl. dr.; distilled ivater, 1 pint; mix. 2. (Ph. D.) Solution of subacetate of lead and proof spirit, of each, 2 fl. oz.; distilled water, ^ gall.; mix, filter, and preserve it in a well-stopped bottle. Obs. Both the above preparations were formerly made with common vinegar, and hence were coloured, but those of the Pharm. are white. If wanted coloured, a little spirit colouring may he added. The steongee LiQTTOE is only used diluted j and the dilute SOLUTION is now seldom prepared by the whole- sale druggist. The last {diluted solution) is employed as a sedative, refrigerant, and astringent wash, in various affections. Both are poisonous. For the antidotes, see Lead. Solution of SuPphate of Mor'phine. Syn. Liquoe moephi^ sulphatis, L. Prep. From sulphate of morphine, as the solution of the ACETATE or HTDEOCHLOEATE. The uses, doses, &c,, are the same. Solution of SuPphate of Zinc (Compound). See Compound Solution of Alum. Solution of Sul'phuret of Potassium. Syn. Solution of hydeosulphate of potassa; SOLUTIO POTASSII SULPHUEETI, LiQUOE PO- TASS^ HTDEOSULPHATIS, AQUA POTASS^ SUL- PHUEETI (Ph. D.), L. Prep. Take of washed sublimed sulphur, 1 part; water of caustic potassa, 11 parts; mix, boil for 10 minutes, filter, and keep the solution in well-closed bot- tles. Sp. gr. 1’117. The product is a mixed solution of hydrosulphate and hyposulphite of potassa. Dose. 10 to 60 drops, diluted in water; and, externally, made into a lotion; in itch, and several other eruptive diseases. SOLVENT. Syn. Mensteuum, L. The liquid in which any substance is dissolved. The substance dissolved is, occasionally, called the ‘ SOLVEND.’ (Kirwan.) Glazier’s Solvent. Syn. Glaziee’s pickle. From soft soap dissolved in thrice its weight of strong soaper's lye ; or, from freshly slaked lime made into a thin paste or cream with twice its weight ofpearlash dissolved in a little water. Very caustic. Used to soften old putty, and to remove old paint. SOLVENT MIN'ERAL (Valangin’s). See page 1045. SOOT. Syn. Fuligo. Wood soot was for- merly officinal, and reputed vermifuge and antiseptic. The soot from q^iUcoal contains, besides empyreumatic matter, sulphate of am- monia ; hence, it is valuable as a manure, when not too freely applied. It is also employed by gardeners to kill insects. SOPORIFTCS. Hypnotics (which see). SOU'JEE. Syn. Soojee. A species of SEMOLINA. Semoletta (semola eaeita) is a still smaller variety of pearled wheat, separated from the others by means of a sieve. ‘ Bastee’s soojee’ is said to be a mixture of ordinary wheat flour and sugar. SOUR KROUT. See Sauee-keout. SOUP. A strong decoction of flesh, proper! seasoned with salts, spices, &c., for the tabli The different tastes of people require more less of thQ flavour of spices, salt, garlic, buttei &c., which can, therefore, never be ordered b general rules. If the cook has not a gooi taste, and attention to that of his or he employers, not all the ingredients which natur and art can furnish will give an exquisit flavour to the dishes. The proper artich should be always at hand, and must be proper tinned until the true zest be obtained, .ii variety of flavours may be given to differen dishes served at the same time, or even to th same soup, by varying the condimerds ain spices. At a Parisian restaurant one cauldro is made to produce almost every imaginabl variety’- of soup. Port'able Soup. Syn. Glaze. From shi of beef, or other like part; the soup bein gently simmered rfntil reduced to the consist ence of a thin syrup, and then poured int small upright jelly-pots, with covers, or, upo flat dishes, to lie about \ inch deep. Tli latter, when set, is divided into pieces, wbic are dried. Used to make extemporaneous sov, and glazes. A similar article, prepared on tl. large scale, now generally forms part of ever ship’s stores. SOURTNG. See Malt Liquoes an Wines. SOY. Genuine soy is a species of tbic black sauce, imported from China. Prep. Tab of the seeds of Soja hispida (white haricots < kidney beans may be used for them), 1 gall, boil them in water, q. s., until soft, add t. bruised wheat, 1 gall., and keep the mixture i a warm place for 24 hours; then add of cow; mon salt, 1 gall.; water, 2 gall.; put the whol into a stone jar, and bung it up loosely for tw or three months, shaking it very frequentl during the whole time; lastly, press out th liquor and bottle ijt; the residuum may 1 treated afresh with water and salt, for soy ( an inferior quality. Obs. The soy of the shops is, in nine cas<i out of ten, a spurious article made in th: country, by simply saturating molasses t treacle with common salt. A better and really wholesome imitation is made as fo lows :—Malt syrup, 1 gall, (or, 13^ lb.); tread 5 lb.; salt, 4^ lb.; mushroom juice, 1 quart mix, with a gentle heat, and stir until tl union is complete; in a fortnight decant th clear portion. SPANISH FLIES. See Canthaeides. SPAR'ADRAP. Syn. Spaeadeapum, 1 Originally, a cerecloth; now, applied to sprea plasters; as, spaeadeapum commune, commo’ strapping or adhesive plaster; S. vesicak EiUM, blistering plaster or tissue, &c. SPARTETNE. .Syn. Spaeteina, L. Avol: tile oily liquid, possessing basic propertic obtained from Spartium scoparium, or broori It is highly poisonous, and resembles coNi> and NICOTINE in its general properties.