ANTI-FRICTION METAL—ANTIMONIC ACID. 180 mentation, when excessive, or when it has been renewed. The first formula is preferred when there is a tendency to acidity. The second and third may he advantageously used for wine and beer, as well as for cider. That of the third formula greatly improves the flavour and the apparent strength of the liquor, and also improves its keeping qualities. See Cellae-mafagement, Feementatiof, &c. ANTI-FRIC'TION METAL. Prep. 1. From tin, 16 to 20 parts; antimony, 2 parts; lead, 1 part; fused together, and then blended with copper, 80 parts. Used when there is much friction or high velocity. 2. Zinc, 6 parts; tin, l part; copper, 20 parts. Used when the metal is exposed to violent shocks. 3. Lead, 1 part; tin, 2 parts; zinc, 4 parts; copper, 68 parts. Used when the metal is ex- posed to heat. 4. (Rabbet’s.) Tin, 48 to 50 parts; anti- rnony, 5 parts; copper, 1 part. 5. (Fenton’s.) Tin with some zinc, and a little copper. 6. (Ordinary.) Tin, or hard pewter, with or without a small portion of antimony or copper. Without the last it is apt to spread out under the weight of heavy machinery. Used for the bearings of locomotive engines, &c. Ohs. These alloys are usually supported by ‘ bearings ’ of brass, into which it is poured after they have been ‘ tinned,’ and heated and put together with an exact model of the axle, or other working piece, plastic clay being j>re- viously applied, in the usual manner, as a lute or outer mould. Soft gun-metal is also ex- cellent, and is much used for bearings. They all become less heated in working than the harder metals, and less grease or oil is con- sequently required when they are used. See Alloys, Feiction, &c. ANTIGUG'GLER. A small bent tube of glass or metal inserted into casks and carboys, to admit air over the liquor whilst it is being poured out or drawn off, so that the sediment may not be disturbed. ANTIMO"NIAL (-mone'-y’M)h [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Antimonia'lis, L. Pertaining to, com- posed of, or containing antimony. In medicine and pharmacy, applied to preparations or re- medies (antimo"nials ; Anti]viofia"lia, L.) in which antimony, or one of its compounds, is the leading or characteristic ingredient. Of these teroxide, oxysulphuret, and potassio- tartrate of antimony, antimonial powder (‘ pulv. antim. co.,’ Ph. L.), and Dr. James's powder, are the principal. Antimonials are regarded as liquefacient, alterative, resolvent, sedative, emetic, sudoriflc, and expectorant. In small doses they act as nauseants and diaphoretics; in medium doses, as emetics and purgatives; and in large doses, as emetics, purgatives, and sedatives. They are deservedly in repute in the cure of| febrile and inflammatory diseases; but are ^ Anlimon'ial (—Mayne) is a barbarism. contra-indicated in the latter stages of fever accompanied by much debility or prostration, and in phthisis. See Antimony and its pre- parations (below), PowpEES, Wines, &c. ANTIMO'NIATED. Syn. Antimonia'tus, L. Mixed or impregnated with antimony; antimonial. ANTIMONIC ACID. Syn. StibTc acid*,' Peeox'ide oe an'timony*. White o. or A.f*, MagTsteey oe diaphoeet'ic A.f (maj'-), &c.; Acidum antimonTcem, a. stibTcxjm (P. C.), Antimo"nium oxyda'tum al'bum (Ph. Dan. 1840), MaTE"EIA PEELA'TAf, &C., L. ; ACIDE ANTIMONIQUE, PeEOXIDE D’ANTIMONIE, &C., Fr.; Antimonsaijee, Oer. Antimony in its highest stage of oxidation. Prep. 1. Pure metallic antimony, in coarse powder, or small fragments, is digested in excess of concentrated nitric acid, until the oxidation and conversion is complete; the excess of nitric acid is then removed by eva- poration nearly to dryness, and the residuum thrown into cold distilled water; after which the powder (hy'deated antimonic acid) is collected on a calico-fllter, washed with dis- tilled water, and dried by a gentle heat. Pure. 2. Metallic antimony (in powder), 1 part; powdered nitre, 6 or 8 parts; are mixed and ignited or deflagrated in a silver crucible ; the mass, when cold, is powdered; the excess of alkali washed out with hot water, and the I'e- siduum (antimo"niate oe potas'sa) decom- posed with hydrochloric acid ; lastly, the pre- cipitate (hydeated ANTIMONIC acid) is washed and dried as before. 3. (Ph. Dan. 1840.) Powdered metallic anti- ■ mony, 1 part; powdered nitre, 4| parts; defla- ; grate in any suitable vessel, increase the heat to t redness, and pour the molten mass into twice i its volume of distilled water ; drop into the re- f suiting solution sulphuric acid, in excess; and t lastly, wash, dry, and powder the precipitate. ^ 4. (P. C.) Dilute sulphuric acid is added to j the water used to wash diaphoretic antimony, i as long as a precipitate falls; which is col- lected, washed, and dried, as before. Prop., S^c. The hydrated acid (prepared as | above) is a white powder, which, when moist, | reddens litmus; is insoluble or nearly insoluble | in water, unless it is soured with tartaric or j hydrochloric acid; and by exposure to a heat ; short of redness, loses its water of hydration, j assumes a pale straw-colour, and becomes an- hydrous (anhy'deous antimonic acid), in ! which state it is insoluble in water, and in acids (except the hydrochloric, hot and concentrated). At a full red-heat it loses oxygen and is con- verted into ANTIMONIOUS ACID. It Combines with some of the bases forming salts called antimo"niates or antimo"nates (Eng., Fr.;. ANTiMO"NiAS, antim'onas^, L. sing.), of whicli* A. OE AMMONIA and A. OE POTASSA alone arc soluble in water, and these only sparingly, j Acids precipitate ‘ hydrated antimonic acid ’ ■ ^ from their solutions; and chloride of sodium I 2 More us., See 2,p. 181.