1124 POTASSIUM. deliquesce in moderately dry air, unless they contain undecomposed potassa. Its solution dissolves iodine freely, and also, less readily, several of the insoluble metallic iodides and oxides. Pur. It is entirely soluble in both water and alcohol. Its aqueous solution alters the colour of turmeric either not at all or but very slightly, nor does it aftect litmus paper, or effervesce with acids. “Nitric acid and starch being added together, it becomes blue. It is not coloured by the addition of tartaric acid with starch. No precipitate occurs on adding either a solution of lime or of chloride of barium. 100 gr., dissolved in water, by the addition of nitrate of silver, yield a pre- cipitate of 141 gr. of iodide of silver.'^ (Ph. L.) “Its solution is not affected, or only rendered hazy, by solution of nitrate of baryta. A solution of 5 gr. in 1 fl. oz. of distilled water, precipitated by an excess of solution of nitrate of silver, and then agitated in a bottle with a little water of ammonia, yields quickly, by subsidence, a clear supernatant liquoi*, which is not altered by an excess of nitric acid, or is merely rendered hazy.’’ (Ph. E.) The pure salt does not lose by weight when heated. Assay. The iodide of commerce frequently contains fully one half its- weight of either chloride of potassium or carbonate of potash, or both of them, with variable quantities of iodate of potassa, a much less valuable salt. The presence of these substances are readily detected by the above tests. As the first of these is only very slightly soluble in cold al- cohol, and the others insoluble in that liquid, a ready method of determining the richness of a sample in pure iodide, sufficiently accurate for ordinary purposes, is as follows:—Reduce 50 gr. of the sample to fine pow’der, introduce this into a test tube with 6 fl. dr. of alcohol, agitate the mixture violently for one minute, and throw the whole on a weighed filter set in a covered funnel, observing to wash what re- mains on the filter with another fl. dr. of al- cohol. The filtrate, evaporated to dryness, gives the quantity of pure iodide, and the filter, dried* by the heat of boiling water, that of the IMPURITIES present in the sample ex- amined, provided it contained no caustic po- tassa. The QUANTITY OE ALKALI, whether * caustic or carbonated, may be found by the • common method of ‘ alkalimetry.’ Uses, 8fc. Chiefly in medicine and phar- macy. Dose. 1 to 10 gr., twice or thrice daily, made into pills, or, better, in solution, either alone or combined with iodine; in broncho- cele, scrofula, chronic rheumatism, droj)sy, syphilis, glandular indurations, and various other glandular diseases. Also externally, made into a lotion or ointment. Concluding remarks. According to theoiy, 4 oz. of iodine should yield 5 oz. 1 dr. 55 gr. of pure iodide of potassium ; but such a pro- duct is never obtained in practice, as will be seen by reference to the above formulae, which are those most generally approved of for 1' preparation of a pure salt. The old met) of acting on iodine with potassa, or carbon of potash water, yields a very impure p duct. A not uncommon practice in the whole? drug trade is to send iodine to the manuf turing chemist, and to receive in return , equal weight of iodide of potassium ; and, most cases, a fee is paid for the conversi The above data will, however, show how ■ such a practice is politic on the part of • holders of iodine. The name ‘biniodide of potassium’( ^ TASSii biniodidum) is sometimes given ) iodurated iodide of potassium prepared as - lows :—1. Iodide of potassium, 3 parts; iod, in powder, 1 part; water, at 180° Fahr i parts j triturate them together, pour the r ■ ture into a flask, and keep it for some day i ice. Brown crystals. 2. (Giordano.) Iodide (dry), 20 parts; • dine, 6 parts; triturate them together r I they form a homogeneous mass, then pla( t at once in stoppered phials. Used to n e ioduretted draughts, lotions, &c. Oxides of Potassium. See Potassa d Potassium. Salicyllte of Potassium. Formed by i • ing salicylous acid (artificial oil of meac ■ sweet) with a strong solution of caustic pota ; it separates, on agitation, as a yellow ( talline mass, which, after pressure in bibi; is paper, is recrystallized from alcohol. Gol i- yellow crystals, soluble in both water and i )• hoi; damp air gradually converts them o acetate of potassa and melanic acid. • Sulphocy'anide of Potassium. Syn. Ir- PHO-CYANURET of potassium ; POTASSII -- PHOCYANIDUM, P. SULPHO-CYANURETUY j- Prep. 1. Ferrocyanide of potassium (a ,• drous, or dried by a gentle heat), 46 pi's; sulphur, 32 parts ; pure carbonate of pot a, 17 parts; reduce them to powder, and 'V gradually heat the mixture to low redness h covered iron crucible; which it will less m one half fill; remove the half-refrigeratec id still soft mass, crush it, exhaust it with w r, and evaporate the aqueous solution to dry s; powder the residuum, and exhaust it wit! alcohol or rectified spirit ; the alcoholic u- tion will yield beautiful white crystals it cools, and the residuum or inother-1 or may be evaporated for the remainder o lie salt. 2. Cyanide of potassium., 3 parts; su\fi^ 1 part; water, 6 parts; digest them tog or for some time, add 3 parts more of filter, evaporate, and crystallize. Prop., 8fc. Long, slender, colourless p ms or plates, which are anhydrous, bitter-t; -d, deliquescent, fusible, very soluble in 4ii water and alcohol, and non-poisonous. chiefly used as a test for sesquioxide of for which purpose it is preferable to all rcr substances.