164 AMYLIO ACID—AKiESTHETICS. two or three deaths having followed its inha- lation. The term amylcne is sometimes incor- rectly applied to amyle; but the two are distinct compounds. See Amyle, Paeamy- LENE, &C. AMYLIC ACID (-mil'-). A compound first obtained by M. Tiinnermann, by distilling a mixture of starch, black oxide of manganese, hydrochloric acid, and water. Its salts were formerly termed am'ylates. It is identical with formic acid., AMYL'IC ALCOHOL. See Amyl-alcohol. AMYL'IC ETHER. See Amyl-ethee. AM'YLINE (-e-lin). Syn. Am'ilix *; Amy- Li'XA, L. The insoluble portion of starch, or that which constitutes the outer covering of the granules. The name has also been given to, and is often confounded with amidine (which see). AM'YLONINE (-nm). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Amyloni'ha, L. The name given, by Waltl, to a substance produced by the action of a mixture of sulphuric acid and nitric acid on starch. AM'YLUM (-e-lum). [L.] Starch. AM'YRINE (-e-rin). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. AMYEI'^’^A, L. A sub-resin found in gum- eleini. A'NA (or an'a). [Gr.] In composition, denoting inversion, retrogression, upward motion or action, &c.; as in anacathar'tics, medicines which excite discharges by the mouth {i. e., emetics, expectorants, &c.) :—in prescriptions, implying repetition, ^of each;’ commonly abbreviated into aa or a. As a termination, it denotes a collection of ‘ sayings ’ or ‘ anecdotes ’ of eminent persons, or of frag- ments from their works; as in Johnsonia'na, Southeya'na, &c. When used as a ‘prefix’ it must not he confounded with a- or an-, priva- tive (which see). ANACAR'DIC ACID (an-a-). An acrid, fatty substance, found in the fruit of the anacar'dium accident a' te, or cashew nuts. ANACATHAR'TICS. Syn, Anacathae'tica, L. See Ana, Emetics, Expectoeants, &c. ANjEMIA (-na'-). [L.; prim., Gr.] Syn. Ane'my* ; Anh^'mia * (the proper orthogr.), L.; Anemie, Fr. In pathology, exsanguinity; deficiency of blood. This may be accidental, arising from ha?morrhage; or habitual, arising from an insufficient formation of blood, and consequent imperfect nutrition. The most striking symptoms of the latter variety are, general paleness, ghastliness, or bloodlessness of the surface of the body, particularly of the face and lips; extreme emaciation, languor, Ac. The pulse is generally quick and feeble, the appetite irregular, and colicky symptoms are not infrequent. This affection deserves the most serious attention, and medical aid should be early sought. In the absence of such assistance, the treatment may consist in the use of ‘gentle stimulants’ and ‘tonics,’ together with a light and nutritious diet. Small doses (frequently repeated) of the phosphate, lactate, or citrate of the protoxide of iron, or the double sulphate of manganese and iron, with a little generous wine or malt- liquor, may he taken daily; and preference should he given to the ‘red meats,’ as beef, mutton, or venison. The bowels may he kept regular by the occasional use of some mild laxative, as aloes with myrrh or with rhubarb, made into pills with Castile-soap (avoiding saline purgatives) ; and extreme irritability or griping, if present, may be allayed by small doses of morphia, opium, or cannabine. Should the pulse indicate the disuse of iron, bark may be substituted for it, for a time; or the doses alternated with others of bark. Fresh air, healthful and agreeable occupation, and gentle out-of-door exercise, should also be sought. See Ateophy, Chloeosis, Maeasmus, Tabes, &c. AN.ffiSTHE'SIA (an-ez-the'-zh’a; - sh’a; - theze'-y’a.^ [L.; prim. Gr.] Syn. Anes- the'sy^ ; Anesthesie, Fr. In pathology, diminished or lost sense of feeling. Local numbness, arising from pressure, is a thing of common occurrence, most frequent in weak and sickly habits. The limb in this state, in familiar language, is said to be ‘ asleep;’ and the irregular return of the sensorial power, pro- duces a sense of prickling, which must have been experienced by every one. The loss of the sense of touch or feeling, whether tempo- rary or otherwise, occurring without the pre- existence of the causes named, indicates the loss of function, or disease of the spinal cord, and threatens apoplexy, palsy, or hysteria. Regular habits and living, topical friction and stimulants, and mild aperients may be had recourse to. In surgery and obstetrics, the production of temporary anaesthesia, for the purpose of ren- dering operations painless, relieving the pangs of childbirth, &c., is effected by the use of— AN.ESTHET'ICS. Syn. Anjesthet'ica, L.; Anesthetiqees, Fr. In pharmacology and surgery, substances or agents which diminish or destroy sensibility, or which relieve pain. In its full extent, this term includes both anodynes and narcotics; but it is now more generally confined to those substances which greatly diminish common sensibility, or en- tirely remove susceptibility to pain. Among the most useful, safe, and powerful of this class, are chloroform, ether, and intense cold. The former are administered by inhaling the vajiour; theby local application. Nitrons oxide gas, and the vapours of amylene, hydro- chloric ether, nitric ether, benzine, bisulphuret of carbon, and of several other like substances, also produce similar effects; but offer no in- ducements for their adoption. Indian-hemp and its alcoholic extract (cannabine), taken internally, are also said to produce anaesthesia; but their action appears to be confined to hot climates and to persons living wholly or chiefly on a vegetable diet. According to M. Rames, bromide of potas- sium induces a degree of insensibility little J