MATERIA MEDICA—MEALS. 889 time, to prevent accidents, and tlie stirring con- tinued until the mixture is comparatively cool. Ohs. According to Mr. G. Gore, the above proportions are those of the best quality of English composition. The matches tipped with it dehagrate with a snapping noise. (See ahove^ 2. (German.)—a. (Bdttger.) Dissolve arahic, 16 parts, in the least possible quantity of water, add of phosphorus (in powder), 9 parts, and mix by trituration; then add of nitre, 11- parts; vermilion or hinoxide of man- ganese, 16 parts, and form the whole into a paste, as directed above ; into this the matches are to be dipped, and then e.xposed to dry. As soon as the matches are quite dry, they are to be dipped into very dilute copal varnish or lac varnish, and again exposed to dry, by which means they are rendered 'waterproof, or at least less likely to suffer from exposure in damp weather. b. (Bottger.) Glue, 6 parts, is soaked in a little cold water for 21 hours, after which it is liquefied by trituration in a heated mortar; phosphorus, 4 parts, is now added, and rubbed down at a heat not exceeding 150° Fahr.; nitre (in fine powder), 10 parts, is next mixed in, and afterwards red ochre, 5 parts, and smalt, 2 parts, are further added, and the whole formed into a uniform paste, into which the matches are dipped, as before. Cheaper than the last. c. (Diesel.) Phosphorus, 17 parts; glue, 21 parts; red lead, 21 parts; nitre, 38 parts. Proceed as above. Ohs. Matches tipped with the above {a, h, and c), inflame without fulmination when rubbed against a rough surface, and are hence termed ‘ noiseless matches^ by the makers. 3. (Safety matches.) The latest improve- ment of note in the manufacture of matches is that of Landstrom, of Jonkoping, in Sweden, adopted by Messrs. Bryant and May {Patent). It consists in dividing the ingredients of the match-mixture into two separate compositions, one being placed on the ends of the splints, as usual, and the other, which contains the phos- phorus, being spread in a thin layer upon the end or lid of the box. The following are the compositions used by the patentee:—a. (For tbe splints.) Chlorate of potassa, 6 parts; sid- 2)huret of antimony, 2 to 3 parts; glue, 1 part. —h. (For the friction surface.) Amorphous phosphorus, 10 parts; sulphuret of antimony or peroxide of manganese, 8 parts; glue, 3 to 6 ])arts; spread thinly upon the surface, which has been previously made rough by a coating of glue and sand. Ohs. By thus dividing the composition, the danger of fires arising from ignition of the matches by accidental friction is avoided, as neither the portion on the splint nor that on the box can be ignited by rubbing against an unprepared surface. Again, by using the in- nocuous Ted or amorphous phosphorus, the danger of poisoning is entirely prevented. MATE"RIA MED'ICA. A collective name of the various substances, natural and arti- ficial, employed as medicines or in the cure of disease. In its more extended sense, it in- cludes the science which treats of their pro- perties, classification, and applications. The materia medica of the Pharmacopoeia is a mere list, with occasional notes, “ embracing the animal, vegetable, and chemical substances, whether existing naturally, prepared in offi- cinal chemical preparations, or sold in whole- sale trade, which we (the College) direct to be used either in curing diseases or in preparing medicines.” (Ph. L.) MAT'ICO. Syn. Soldier’s herb ; Ma- TECO (Ph. D.); Matica, Herba matic^, L. The leaves of a Peruvian plant, generally be- lieved to be the Artanthe elongata, one of the Piperaceae. The leaves have been employed with considerable success as a mechanical ex- ternal styptic; applied to leech-bites, slight cuts, and other wounds, &c., and pressed on with the fingers, they seldom fail to arrest the bleeding. Matico has also been much lauded as an internal astringent and styptic, in hae- morrhages from the lungs, stomach, bowels, uterus, &c.; but as it is nearly destitute of astringent properties, its virtues in these cases must have been inferred from its external ac- tion. As an aromatic, bitter stimulant, closely resembling the peppers, it has been proposed as a substitute for cubebs and black pepper, in the treatment of diseases of the mucous membranes, piles, &c. Bose. ^ to 2 dr.; in powder; or under the form of infusion, tinc- ture, or boluses. MATURA'TION. Growing ripe. Amongst surgeons, this term is applied to the process of suppuration, or that which succeeds inflamma- tion, and by which pus or matter is collected in an abscess. Warmth, irritation, and a liberal diet, promote this change; cold, seda- tives, and depletion, retard it. The matura- tion of fermented liquor is noticed under Brewing, Malt Liquors, Wines, &c. MEAD. Syn. Mellina, L. An old English liquor, made from the combs from which the honey has been drained, by boiling them in water, and fermenting the saccharine solution thus obtained. It is commonly confounded with METHEGLiN. Some persons add 1 oz. of hops to each gallon; and, after fermentation, a little brandy. It is then called sack mead. See Metheglin. MEAL. The substance of edible grain ground to powder, without being bolted dr sifted. Barley meal and oat meal are the common substances of this class in England. In Xorth America the term is commonly applied to ground Indian corn, whether bolted or not. (Goodrich.) The four resolvent meals of old pharmacy (quatuor farin.e resolventes) are those of barley, beans, linseed, and rye. MEALS. The “periods of taking food, usually adopted, in conformity with conveni- ence and the recurrence of hunger, are those