480 COPPER. compact and brittle, with a feeble metallic lustre and a dark bluish-gray colour. It is tapped off into sand moulds. 5. The pigs of regulus obtained by the last operation are ‘ roasted’ in a furnace through which air passes. The temperature is so regulated that the regulus may be melted in from 6 to 8 hours. The slag is skimmed off, and after a time the heat is lowered, to allow the regulus to solidify. It is again melted and tapped into sand moulds, the product being called ‘ blister copper’ 6. This, the last operation, is termed ‘refining.’ From 6 to 8 tons of blister copper, in pigs, are melted in a furnace, and kept exposed for about 15 hours to the oxidizing influence of the air. The slag is skimmed off through the end open- ing. When the oxidation has been sufficiently prolonged, anthracite or free-burning coal, as pure as possible, is thrown upon the surface of the metal, and after a short time the thick end of a long birch or oak pole is plunged into the molten mass. This part of the operation is termed ‘poling’ The wood in contact with the copper is rapidly decomposed; much gas is evolved, which causes the metal to be splashed about, and every part of it to be exposed to the reducing action of the coal. When the refiner finds the metal to be at the state of ‘ tough pitch,^ the pole is taken out, and the coal pushed back from the end opening, through which the copper is then ladled out as quickly as possible, and cast into suitable moulds. For full details of this and other pro- cesses, the reader is referred to Dr. Percy’s great work on Metallurgy. In the laboratory, copper is commonly em- ployed under the following forms :— 1. (Bean-shot coppee.) Produced by simply lading the melted copper from the re- fining furnace into hot water. In small lumps like peas and beans; hence its name. Used to make alloys, solutions, &c. 2. (Electrotype copper.) A very pure form, obtained by decomposing sulphate of cop- per in an electrotype apparatus. It does not contain lead, whereas most varieties of cc^- mercial copper do contain that metal. 3. (Feather-shot copper, granulated c.) Produced by lading the refined copper from the furnace into cold water. In small pieces, with a feathered edge. Used to make calamine, brass, solution of copper, &c. 4. (Copper in plates or foil.) Those of commerce (best, annealed) are generally em- ployed. 5. (Copper in powder.)—a. A solution of sulphate of copper is heated to the boiling- point, and precipitated with distilled zinc ; the precipitated copper is then separated from the adherent zinc by dilute sulphuric acid, washed with water, and dried by exposure to a mode- rate temperature. b. As the last, but using a plate of polished iron. Both are in very fine powder. c. Copper filings separated from foreign matter. 6. (Copper wire.) That of commerce (best, annealed) is usually employed. Prop., 8fc. Copper has a brilliant yellowish- red colour, a nauseous, styptic taste, and emits a disagreeable odour when rubbed; is very malleable and ductile; unchanged in dry air; in damp air it soon becomes covered with a greenish rust (carbonate of copper) ; slightly soluble in dilute sulphuric and hydrochloric acid; freely soluble in boiling oil of vitriol (sul- phurous acid being evolved); nitric acid, even dilute, dissolves it readily (with copious evolu- tion of binoxide of nitrogen); heated to red- ness in the air, it rapidly becomes covered with a black scale (oxide) ; it fuses at a fuU red heat; its crystals are either octahedra or dodecahedra; sp. gr. 8'8 to 8’96; it forms numerous compounds (allots and salts) with other bodies, all of which are more or less poi- sonous ; those with the acids are either blue or ' green, and most of them (when neutral) are ' soluble in water. Tests. Metallic copper may be recognised , by the above properties; its oxides, salts, &c., by the following characters and reactions 1. The solutions of copper possess a blue or green colour, which they retain even when considerably diluted with water:—2. With i caustic potassa they give a light-blue, bulky pre- ' cipitate, turning blackish-brown or black on boiling the liquid:—3. Ammonia and carbonate of ammonia produce a bluish-white precipitate, i soluble in excess, yielding a rich deep-bhe solution:—4. The carbonates of potassa give a like precipitate, insoluble in excess :—5. Ferro- cyanide of potas.sium gives a reddish-brown precipitate:—6. Sulphuretted hydrogen and sulphuret of ammonium give blackish-brown or black ones:—7. A polished rod of iron, on immersion in an acidulated solution, quickly 1 becomes coated with metallic copper. Estim., 8fc. Copper is generally weighed under the form of protoxide, but sometimes as pure metal:—1. By throwing it down from its solution by pure potassa, after which it must be carefully collected, washed, dried, ignited I in a platinum crucible, and weighed therein as soon as it is cold. Every 5 parts of the ignited I precipitate (oxide) represents 4 parts of copper j (nearly); or, more accurately, every 39*7 parts j are equal to 31’7 of pure metallic copper:— ( 2. By immersing a piece of polished steel in the solution, and weighing the resulting pre- cipitate of the copper (see above). Less deli- cate than the preceding:—3. Copper may he separated from lead, by adding sulphuric acid to the nitric solution, and evaporating to dry- ness, when water digested on the residuum will dissolve out the sulphate of copper, but leave the sulphate of lead behind. From this solution the oxide of copper may be thrown down as before:—4. Copper may be separated from tin by digestion in nitric acid, which will dissolve t\\e first, but leave the last behind as an insoluble peroxide :—5. Copper may be separated from ziNC by sulphuretted hydrogen.