1302 VARNISH. carbon, 1 pint; digest in tLe cold tintil solu- tion is complete. Dries as soon as it is laid on. Pure gutta percha may be substituted for India rubber. 2. India rubber, in shavings, 1 oz.; rectified mineral naphtha or benzol, 1 pint; digest at a gentle heat, in a closed vessel, and strain. Dries very badly, and never gets perfectly hard. 3. India rubber, 1 oz.; drying oil, 1 quart; dissolve by heat. Very tough; dries in about 48 hours. 4. Linseed oil, 1 gall.; dried white copperas and sugar of lead, of each, 3 oz.; litharge, 8 oz.; boil, with constant agitation, until it strings well, then cool slowly, and decant the clear portion. If too thick, thin it down with quick-drying linseed oil. The above are used for balloons, gas bags, &c. See Balloon, Caoltchotjc, &c. Furniture Varnish. A solution of pure white wax, 1 part, in rectified oil of turpentine, 4 parts, frequently passes under this name. See Body, Caeeiage, and Copal Vaenishes, &c. Gilder’s Varnish. Prep. (Watin.) Pale gum-lac in grains, gamboge, dragon’s blood, and annotta, of each, 12^ oz.; saffron, 3i oz.; dissolve each resin separately in 5 pints of alcohol of 90g, and make two separate tinc- tures of the dragon’s blood and annotta, with a like quantity of spirit; then mix. the solutions in the proper proportions to produce the required shade. Used for gilded articles, &c. Glass Varnish. A solution of soluble glass. Used to render wood, &c., fire-proof (Seepage 699.) Gun-barrel Varnish. Prep. From shell-lac, oz.; dragon’s blood, 3 dr.; rectified spirit, 1 quart. Applied after the barrels are ‘ browned.’ Hair Varnish. Prep. From hog’s bristles (chopped small), 1 part; drying oil, 10 parts ; dissolve by heat. Said to be used to give cotton or linen cloth the appearance of horse- hair. India-rubber Varnish. See Flexible Vae- NiSH {above). Italian Varnish. Prep. Boil Scio tur- pentine until brittle, powder it, and dissolve this in oil of turpentine. Used for prints, &c. Japan Varnish. Pale amber or copal var- nish. Used for japanning tin, papier mache, &c. Lac Varnish. Prep. 1. Pale seed-lac (or shell-lac), 8 oz.; rectified spirit, 1 quart; dis- solve. 2. Substitute lac bleached with chlorine for seed-lac. Both are very tough, hard, and durable, but quite indexible. Wood naphtha may be substituted for spirit. Used for pic- tures, metal, wood, or leather, and particu- larly for toys. Lac Varnish (Aqueous). Prep. From pale shell-lac, 5 oz.; borax, 1 oz.; water, 1 pint; digest at nearly the boiling-point until dis- solved; then strain. Equal to the more costly spirit varnish for many purposes; it is an excellent vehicle for water colours, inks, &c.; when dry, it is waterproof. Lac Varnish (Coloured). Syn. Lacqdee, Beasswoek vaenish. Prep. 1. Take of turmeric (ground), 1 lb.; rectified spirit, 2 gall.; macerate for a week, strain, with ex- pression, and add to the tincture, gamboge, 1|- oz.; pale shell-lac, f lb. ; gum sandarach, 3^ lb.; when dissolved, strain, and further add of good turpentine varnish, 1 quart. Gold coloured. 2. Seed-lac, 3 oz.; turmeric, 1 oz.; dragon’s blood, 5 oz.; rectified spirit, 1 pint; digest for a week, frequently shaking, then decant the clear portion. Deep gold coloured. 3. Spanish annotta, 3 lb.; dragon’s blood, 1 lb.; gum sandarach, lb. ; rectified spirit, 2 gall.; turpentine varnish, 1 quart; as before. Red coloured. 4. Gamboge, 1 oz.; Cape aloes, 3 oz.; pale shell-lac, 1 lb.; rectified spirit, 2 gall.; as before. Pale brass coloured. 5. Seed-lac, dragon’s blood, annotta, and gamboge, of each, \ lb.; gum sandarach, 2 oz.; saffron, 1 oz.; rectified spirit, 1 gall. Re- sembles the last. Obs. Lacquers are used upon polished metals and wood, to impart to them the appearance of gold. Articles in brass, tin plate, and pewter, or which are covered with tinfoil, are more especially so treated. As lacquers are required of different depths and shades of colour, it is best to keep a concen- trated solution of each of the colouring ingre- dients ready, so that it may be added, at any time, to produce any desired tint. Mahogany Varnish. Prep. From gum anime (‘ sorts ’), 8 lb.; clarified oil, 3 gall.; litharge and powdered dried sugar of lead, of each, ^ lb.; proceed as for body varnish, and thin with oil of turpentine, 5 gall., or q. s. Mastic Varnish. Syn. Pictdee vaenish, Tijepentine V., Tingey’s essence V. Prep. 1. Take of pale and picked gum mastic, 5 lb.; glass (pounded as small as barley, and well washed and dried), 3 lb.; finest newly rectified oil of turpentine (lukewarm), 2 gall.; put them into a clean 4-gall, tin bottle or can, bung down securely, and keep rolling it back- wards and forwards pretty smartly on a counter, or any other solid place, for at least 4 hours, when, if the gum is all dissolved, the varnish may be decanted, strained through muslin into another bottle, and allowed to settle; if the solution is still incomplete, the agitation must be continued for some time longer, or a gentle warmth applied as well. Very fine. 2. {Second quality.) From mastic, 4 lb.; oil of turpentine, 2 gaU. ; dissolve with heat. Obs. Mastic varnish is much used for pic- tures, &c.; when good, it is tough, hard,