295 BEER. unmalted corn or j»Tain, and the malted crrn or grain with which the same may have been mixed, shall be contained; and every brewer shall for every such offence forfeit 200/.” This then is the law; hut as Dr. Normandy, truthfully observes, “ In theory^ it seemingly provides for everything; in practice, it is a dead letter.” It is a well-known and authen- ticated fact that owing to the supineness of the , authorities, and the indifference of the public, beer is commonly and dangerously adulterated. The cupidity of fraudulent brewers and pub- licans frequently induce them to introduce other ingredients than malt and hops into their liquors, with a view of giving them a false appearance of strength, and as substitutes for one or other of their essential constituents. Thus—to impart BITTERNESS, and to lessen the quantity of hops required for the beer, ^'^quassia, ^gentian, ^wormwood, *aloes, ^picric acid, ^chamomiles, broom-lops, 8fc., have been used; to give PUNGENCY and flavour—*007?- sicum, ^grains of paradise, *ginger, *corianders, orange-peel, caraways, ^c.; to give INTOXI- CATING PROPERTIES—* opium, *cocculus indi- cus, ^nux vomica, * tobacco, strychnine, * extract of poppies, * tincture and * extract of henbane, o^‘c.; as a substitute for malt—*molasses, *corian- ders, ^treacle, * colouring, and *sugar ; to impart a false appearance of age—^sulphuric acid, ^alurn, *green vitriol, and ^common salt; to remove acidity—*pearlash, *salt of tartar, *Scotch soda, quicklime, magnesia, and *com- mon chalk ; to impart a frothy head—*alum., ^copperas, *foots, *sugar, *treacle, and table- salt. The substances of which the names in the above list are marked with an asterisk (*), are still frequently and largely employed in the trade. The following is a list of the unlawful sub- stances seized at different breweries, and tht laboratories of brewers’ druggists, in London, as copied from the minutes of a committee of the House of Commons:—“ Cocculus Indicus, multum (an extract of cocculus), colouring, honey, hartshorn shavings, Spanish juice, orange- powder, ginger, grains of paradise, quassia, liquorice, caraway seeds, copperas, capsicum, and various mired drugs’* In another return to the House of Commons the names of the numerous brewers and vendors of beer, and brewers’ druggists, who had been fined for adulterating their liquors, or selling drugs for that purpose, is also published. Hhepublicans generally ‘ reduce’ their strong beer with water (which they call ‘ liquor’), and add treacle, or more generally, coarse moist sugar (which they call ‘foots’), together with a mixture of copperas, salt, and alum (termed ‘heading’), to make it bear a frothy head; .and, in many cases, other and really deleterious ingredients are added, to keep up the appear- ance of strength, and to impart flavour, in lieu of that lost by the dilution. The ‘ cheap beer ’ now sold in the low taverns of London, and, indeed, too often in others daing a first-class business, and reputed to be ‘ respectable,’ is made by dividing the contents of two butts between three butts, filling them up with water, and adding a bladder of porter- extract (technically termed ‘ P. E.’) to each. This P. E. is a mixture of powdered cocculus, roasted quassia, Spanish juice, pearlash, burnt sugar, &c., boiled up with treacle and water to the consistence of a thin extract, and then put into bullock’s bladders.^ The serious consequences arising from the adulteration of beer has been frequently insisted on by the medical profession. Dr. R. M. Glover during a debate before the Medical Society in- quired—“ Might not the very great increase of nervous diseases of late years in England be in some way explained by the fact of the staple beverage of the people—beer—being much adulterated with cocculus indicus, the plant whence picrotoxine is obtained ?” “ May not a very large portion of the stomach and bowel complaints, and skin diseases, be also traced to the above cause ?” “ The ravages of cholera in London were undoubtedly greatly increased, amongst the lower orders of society, by the use of adulterated beer and coffee.”^ Exam., tests, Sfc.—The analysis of beer, both qualitative and quantitative, as already noticed, is a matter of considerable difficulty. We shall therefore defer its consideration until we come to the article porter, as that description of beer, on account of its colour, is not only the one most difficult to examine, but also the one most frequently adulterated. See Ale, Brew- ing, Hops, Malt, Porter, &c. (also below). Am'ber Beer. Syn. Am'ber];. A liquor, formerly much drank in London, brewed from a mixture of 3 parts of amber malt, and 1 part of pale malt, with about 6 lb. of hops to the quarter. It was generally ‘ tapped’ within a few days after it had done ‘ working’ and was chiefly used mixed with ‘ bitters’ or made into ‘ PURL.’ 1 See tlie Editor’s exposition of these frauds in the “ Med. Circular” vol. i., p. 299. 2 “ Med. Circ.,” i., 300. In an examination at Guildhall, London, in a case of suspected poisoning by nux vomica, the following remarks were made:— Alderman. ‘ That cannot be a dangerous cbemical for there is an immense quuntitii of it used in beer.” Surgeon. “ I aiu a« are that it is so used ; but I do not xX, quite so harmless. I bad the cramp all night in my legs ami arms from only drinking one glassful of pale ale." “ It kills animals born blind iustanllg.” (‘ Times,' Dec. 22,1852.) [Although tlie charge {never made, though assumed to be so, for advertising purposes) oi adulteratii.g bitter ale witli strychnine and mix vomica, was alily and clearly disproved by tlie chemical lectui-ers and analysts employed by ci rtain ‘great brewers,’with respect to themselves and, indeed, ALL the respectable portion of the trade, there is a mystery still hanging over the subject of the very large demand for these articles, as well as for St. Ignatius’s bean, a substance richer in strychnine, than even iiux von\ica. Were we permitted to lift the veil which honour and confidence throws over certai\i dark scenes and pain- ful facts disclosed by tlie experience and observations of a professional chemist during the last quarter of a century, we think we could show the fallacy of the assertion, so positively &ru\soboldty made, by certain parties, that these substances ‘ never are, never were, nor never could be, usvd to adulterate either beer or wine.’]