61 ALCOHOL. ' Fahr. (under a barom. pressure of 29*5 to 30 I inches); and in vacuo, at 56^ Fahr.^ Every volume of boiling alcohol yields 488’3 vol. of I vapour, calculated at 212° Fahr. Sp. gr., *7938 j (or more exactly, *793811 — Drinkwater, j Fownes, Mitchell), at 60° Fahr.^ Sp. gr. of j vapour, 1*6133 (Gay-Lussac); or, as 16 to air 10 (Braude). It is uncongealable by cold, j being still liquid at—166° Fahr.'"^ The pro- I ducts of its combustion are carbonic acid and i water. With potassa it forms a definite com- ' pound (C4H50,K0) ; the same as produced by the action of potassium on anhydrous alcohol. I It contracts by cold; between —15° & + 99° I Fahr., this occurs with great regularity, at the rate of *00047 part of its volume for every degree of the thermometer. (Tralles.) Its j evaporation, like that of ether, produces ] intense cold. It acts as a powerful antiseptic I on organic substances immersed in it; with ; the acids, it forms ethers, j Phys. eff., &e. Alcohol is a narcotico-acrid I poison. In small doses it occasions excitement and intoxication; in larger ones, delirium, I somnolency, coma, apoplexy, and death. It acts as a violent nervous stimulant, and by I abstracting water from the soft tissues of the j stomach and primse vise, destroys their organ- I isation. It is alike poisonous to all animals ; —two dr. will kill a dog. All strong spirits act in the same way, the effect being pro- j portionate to the state of concentration, and the quantity taken. ; Ant., S(c. Copious internal use of tepid j water, with cold affusions to the head and I spine. In the absence of vomiting, a strong ^1 emetic should be given, or the stomach pump ‘ I used. Ammonia may be used as a stimulant, I and, added to water just in sufficient quantity i to flavour it, is one of the best antidotes, f' The head should be kept elevated, and bleed- 11 ing had recourse to if cerebral congestion li| threatens.—Lesions. General inflammation f and softening of the mucous membrane of t| the stomach, &c., congestion of the cerebral >j vessels, and sanguineous or serous extravasation I I 1 The boilhiff-point of anhydrous alcohol is slightly bl higher tlian that of alcohol containing 2% or 3% of water, i; (Yeliu; Fuch.) A very small quantity of water does not sen- Ni sibly raise the boiling-point. (Tralles.) A mixture of 94% of »| alcohol, and 6% of water, possesses the same volatility as Ij alcohol of 7947. (Soemmering.) The portions that first kj pass over from alcohol of ’SO, are saturated with water, ■I and the spirit in the retort becomes gi-adually richer, until, ! at length, (nearly) absolute alcohol passes over. (Soem- I mering.) Hence the rejection of the first portion of the I distillate ordered in the Ph. D. Hence also has probably I arisen the different boiling-points of alcohol formerly given j by cbemists—from 168^® (Ure) to 176® (Brande). The II boiling-point also slightly varies with the nature of the 11 materials of the containing vessel. I 3 The three last-named authorities are, perhaps, the first [ who procured perfectly anhydrous or absolute alcohol. I Hence the different sp. gr. of alcohol given by different I writers:—7947 at 69® Fahr. (Rudberg; Gay-Lussac); ' —-7939 at 60® (Tralles)796 at 60®, and 791 at 68® I (Ure, Lbwitz):—792 at 60® (Brande; Ure’s “IHct. of A., I M., & M.,” 6th ed.); &c. 3 It acquired the consistence of castor-oil; but did not I solidify. (Faraday.) It became oil-like and glutinous at j — J30® Fahr.; and at—146® flowed like melted wax; but I alcohol of sp. gr. 820 froze easily. (l)r. Mitchell.) in the brain and lungs.—Tests. 1. The odour of the contents of the stomach and ejected matters, and their ready inflammability :— 2. The spirit may be separated by digestion with water, filtration, the addition of car- bonate of potassa, and distillation. Comp., <^*e. Its per-centage composition is— Dumas & Boullay. Brande & Ure, Carbon 52*37 52*18 Hydrogen 13 01 13*04 Oxygen 34*61 34*78 which nearly represents 2 equivalents of carbon, 3 eq. of hydrogen, and 1 of oxygen. The atom of alcohol is now generally regarded as a multiple of these numbers, and formed by the breaking up of one atom of grape sugar (C24 ^28^28) into 4 equiv. of ‘alcohol,^ 8 eq. of ‘ carbonic acid,’ and 4 eq. of ‘ water.’ It was formerly regarded as a compound of 1 eq. of olefiant gas (14) and 1 eq. of water (9 = 23); but it is now generally viewed as hydrate of OXIDE OF ETHTLE (z. e., of ether). Grape sugar alone yields alcohol; cane sugar, before it un- dergoes the vinous fermentation, being first converted into this substance by contact with the ferment. (Liebig.) Pur. The presence of water is shewn by the specific gravity (See Alcoholometet) ;—the absence of other foreign matter by the fol- lowing tests :— 1. Its colour and transparency is not affected by the addition of a little ‘ colourless’ oil of vitriol (Liebig), or by a solution of nitrate of silver and subsequent exposure for some time to solar light (Vogel), unless either essential oil or organic matter be present, when it as- sumes a reddish tinge :—2. It should be neu- tral to test paper; “ colourless; evaporate en- tirely by heat; combine with water and with ether, retaining its transparency; and possess a taste and smell” (somewhat) “resembling wine.” (Ph. L. 1836.) The above apply to alcohols of all strengths :—3. One per cent, of wood spirit (wood naphtha) may be detect- ed in alcohol, or spirit of wine, by testing it with caustic potassa; which then speedily gives it a yellow or brownish colour, but does not dis- colour pure alcohol (Ure) :—4. Nitric acid (sp. gr. 1*45) added to alcohol containing wood naphtha occasions a ruby tint, but pure alco- hol continues nearly colourless; in both cases violent ebullition ensues. (Ure.) For the re- verse of this adulteration—the evasion of the duty by the introduction of spirit, under the disguise of naphtha, turpentine, &c., see those articles :—5. The presence of water in alcohol may be detected not only by the sp. gr., but also by white anhydrous sulphate of copper turning blue when dropped into it:—6. Potas- sium placed on alcohol does not take fire unless a considerable per centage of water be pre- sent. Tests, 8fc.—1. It may generally be easily re- cognised by its volatility, infiammability, odour, taste, miscibility with water, power of dis-