898 MERCURY. On to a copjjer coin bi’ightcned v.ntli a little nitric acid, u small portion of the suspected substance is placed, and moistened with a drop or two of water into a pasty consistence; a small fragment of iodide of potassium is then added to it. On washing the coin, a mercurial stain will remain. Numerous so-called Wege- tahle pills,’ and other quack medicines, will be found to show the presence of calomel in this way. See Peotochloeide oe Meecijey {helotv). Uses, Mercury is applied to various purposes in the arts; as the amalgamation of gold and silver, ‘ wash gilding,’ the silvering of looking-glasses, the manufacture of ba- rometers and thermometers, and the prepara- tion of several very valuable medicines. In its metallic state it appears to be inert when swallowed, unless it meets with much acidity in the alimentary canal, or is in a state of minute division j its compounds are, however, all of them more or less poisonous. Mercury has been employed in one or other of its forms in almost all diseases; but each of its numerous preparations is supposed to have some peculiarity of action of its own, com- bined with that common to all the compounds of this metal. The mercurials form, indeed, one of the most important classes of the ma- teria medica. See Meectjeial Disease, and below. I I The salts of mercury described below are named in accordance with the opinion, now generally adopted, that the equivalent of mercury is 100, and that, consequently, the red oxide is the protoxide, HgO. Ac'etates of Mercury. With acetic acid mercury forms two well-defined compounds, as follows:— 1. Subac'etate of Mercury. Syn. Acetate OE MEECEEY, A. OE SUBOXIDE OE M., MeE- CUEOUS ACETATE, PeOTACETATE OF MEE- CUEYf; Hydeaeoyei acetas, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. l5. 1826.) Mercury, 9 parts; diluted nitric acid (Ph. D.), 11 parts; dissolve, add it to a boiling solution of acetate of potassa, 9 parts, dissolved in water, 100 parts, and acidu- lated with distilled vinegar; filter the liquid whilst hot, let it cool, wash the crystals that are deposited with cold water, and dry them by a very gentle heat. 2. (P. Cod.) Dissolve suhnitrate of mercury, 1 part, in water (slightly acidulated with nitric acid), 4 parts, and precipitate the liquid with a solution of acetate of soda, gradually added, until in slight excess; carefully wash the precipitate with cold water, and dry it in the shade. Prop., 4*e. Small, Avhite, micaceous, flexible scales; insoluble in alcohol; soluble in about 300 parts of water; blackened by light; and carbonized by a strong heat. It has been said to be one of the mildest of the mercurials; but this cannot be the case, as it occasionally acts with great violence on both the stomach and bowels, producing much pain and pro- stration. Bose. ^ to 1 gr., night and morning, gradually increased. 2. Protae'etate of Mercury. Syn. Acetate OE PEOTOXIDE OE MEECUEY, MeECUEIC ACE- TATE, Peeacetate oe MEECUEYf. Pvep. By . dissolving red oxide of mercury in warm acetic \ acid. It crystallizes in brilliant micaceous ( lamina, soluble in their own weight of cold i water, and somewhat more soluble in boiling water. According to Robiquet, this is the I basis of Keysee’s axtitexeeeal pills, which ■ do not conttxin subacetate of mercury, as some > parties have asserted. Ammo^'nio-chlo"ride of Mercury. Syn. Am- MOXIATED CHLOEIDE OE MEECUEY, WHITE PEECIPITATE, LeMEEY’S W. P., CoSMETIC MEE- CUEY, White oxide oe M.f; Hydeaegyei AMMONIO-CHLOEIDUM (Ph. L.), HyDEAEGY- EUM PE^CIPITATUM ALBUM (Ph, E.), HY- DEAEGYEI SUBMUEUS AMMONIATUMf, CaLX HYDEAEGYEI ALBAf, MeECUEIUS PE,ECIPITA- TUS ALBUsf, L. This compound originated with Raymond Lully in the thirteenth century. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Corrosive sublimate (pro- tochloride of mercury), 6 oz.; distilled water, 3 quarts; dissolve, with heat, and when the solution has cooled, add of liquor of ammonia, ; 8 fl. oz., frequently shaking it; lastly, wash the precipitate with xvater, and dry it. The formulse of the Ph, E. & D. are nearly similar. 2. Corrosive sublimate and sal ammoniac, of each, ^ lb.; water, 3 quarts; dissolve, and pre- cipitate with liquor of potassa, q. s. Some use only 5 oz. of sal ammoniac. Prop., &(C. A white, inodorous, light imiss, or powder; insoluble in alcohol, partially soluble in boiling water, and wholly dissolved | by sulphuric, nitric, and hydrochloric acids, without effervescence. It is totally dissipated by heat. When heated with solution of potash, it exhales ammonia, and assumes a yellow colour. Used to make an ointment, which is employed in herpes, porrigo, itch, and other skin diseases, &c.; and by the lower orders, as a dusting powder to destroy pediculi, an appli- cation which, from its liberal employment, is not always a safe one. It is highly poisonous, and must not be swallowed. Eo"rate of Mercury. Syn. Hydeaegyei BOEAS, L. Prep. (Van Mons.) Calomel, 11 parts; borate of soda, 13 parts; triturate together; in 15 minutes add a little then gradually more, rubbing all the tin;e; next permit the powder to settle, collect it on a filter, wash it, and dry it. Prop.,S^‘c. A white, insoluble powder. Dose. 1 to 3 gr.; in similar cases to those in wdiicli calomel is given. Bro'mides of Mercury. With bromine, mer- cury forms turn compounds, as follows :— 1. Dibro'mide of Mercury. Syn. INIee- CUKOUS BEOMIDE, BeOMIDE OF MEECUEY, t Peotobeomide of M.f; Hydeaegyeum BEO- M MiDUM, L. Prep. (Magendie.) By precipi- tating a solution of suhnitrate of mercury by another of bromide of potassium. It closely