PAINTINGS. 1026 modern distemper, as executed by the painters of theatrical scenery, panoramas, &c., spirit of turpentine is largely employed as a medium. Elydor'ic Fainting. A method of painting invented by M. Vincent, of Montpelier, having for its object to combine the fresh appearance and finish of water colours with the mellow- ness of oil painting. The liquid employed as a vehicle for the pigments is an emulsion formed of oil and water by the intervention of certain portion of gum or mucilage. Enam'el Painting. In this variety of paint- ing, vitrifiable colours are laid on thin plates of metal, and fused into it. The outline is first burnt in, after which the parts are filled up gradually, with repeated fusions at an enamel- ler’s lamp, to the most minute finishing touches. “The enamel painter has to work, not with actual colours, but with mixtures which he only knows from experience will produce cer- tain colours after the operation of the fire.^^ (Aikin.) Encaus'tic Painting. This method is very ancient, but is now seldom practised. Ac- cording to Pliny, the colours were made up into crayons with wax^ and the subject being traced on the ground with a metal point, they were melted on the picture as they were used. A coating of melted wax was then evenly spread over all, and when it had become quite cold was finally polished. The art of encaustic painting, after lying dormant for about 15 centuries, was revived by Count Caylus, in 1753. In its new form, the vmod or canvas to be painted on is first well rubbed over with waXy and then held before the fire, so that the wax may penetrate and fill up all the interstices, and form a per- fectly even surface. The coloured pigments are next mixed with the powder noticed below, which is then rubbed smooth with some thick gum water, and applied with brushes in the same manner as ordinary water colours. When the painting is finished, and quite dry, it is brushed over with pure white wax in a melted state, the surface being equalized by the skilful application of heat; it is, lastly, polished ofi", as before. The powder.—To white wax, melted in an earthen pipkin, add, in small portions at a time, an equal weight of powdered mastic, stirring continuously until the whole is incor- porated; then pour it into cold water, and afterwards reduce it to powder in a wedg- ■wood-ware mortar. A small quantity only of this powder is used with light colours; but more is required with the darker ones, until, on approaching black, the two may be mixed in almost equal proportions. Fres'co Painting. This method of painting was known to the ancient Egyptians, and was commonly practised by the Greeks and Romans. It is confined to the decoration of the walls of buildings, and is executed by incorporating the colours with the still moist plaster, or gesso. The pigments employed are entirely mineral or vitreous. As it is extremely difficult to alter the work after the colours are once ab- sorbed, or after the ground has hardened, the whole must be carefully designed before com- mencing the picture, and no more commenced at once than can be executed during the day. Of all the varieties of painting, fresco is “ undoubtedly the most virile, most sure, most resolute, and most durable’^ (Vasari) and the one most adapted for the purposes of historical painting in its grandest and most exalted forms. In comparison with it, it has been said that even oil painting is “employment fit only for women and children.” (Michael Angelo.) Glass Painting. See Stained Glass. Oil Painting. This well-known and much practised method of painting takes its name from the vehicle employed for the colours. The last may be any of those of a permanent character, and whose natural tint is not altered by admixture with oil. Linseed, nut, and poppy oil, are those which are principally em- ployed. The first requires the addition of ‘ driers,^ and hence is generally used under the form of ‘ boiled oil.' Spirit of turpentine is commonly used to thin down the prepared colours, and the finished picture is frequentlj covered with a coat of varnish. Por'celain Painting. See Potteey, Stainee Glass, &c. Vel'vet Painting. Any of the ordinary non- corrosive pigments or liquid colours, thickened with a little gum, may be employed in this art; preference being, however, given to those that possess the greatest brilliancy, and whict dry without spreading. See Stains, &c. Water-colour Painting. In its strictest anr - modern sense, ‘water-colour painting' meanU the painting on paper with colours dilutee with water. The English school of water colour painting has produced works whicl bear comparison with the great masterpiece: in oil, and even surpass them in the delicacj of atmospheric effects. The old practice o making the entire drawing in light and shad< by washes of Indian ink or neutral tints, am then adding the various local colours in trauii^ parent washes, has given place to the mon healthy system of painting every object in it appropriate local colour at the outset. PAINTINGS. Many valuable paintings suf fer premature decay from the attacks of i microscopic insect, a species of acarus o mite. The best method of preventing thi variety of decay, is to add a little creasot (dissolved in brandy or vinegar), or a fev grains each of corrosive sublimate and sal am moniac (dissolved in a little water), to the past and glue used to ‘line’ the picture, as well a to add a few drops of pure cr'easote or of a^ alcoholic or ethereal solution of corrosive suh limate to the varnish, when any is to be ap plied. If the destruction alluded to ha already commenced, the painting should be a once carefully cleaned and ‘ re-lined,’ observin