461 COCOA-NUT OIL-COD-LIVER OIL. I to form a very valuable article of diet for I uvalids. I Obs. No warm drink that we take ap- I proaches cocoa in its nutritive character, I because while performing to a certain extent ! the exhilarating work of coffee or tea, it pre- I sents to the stomach a very considerable quan- tity of nitrogenous and carbonaceous luatter; I this advantage is due in part to the fact that j cocoa is taken in the form of an emulsion, in- j stead of an infusion or decoction. ; Cocoa fob the table is readily prepared ' from the soluble varieties by simply pouring I boiling water upon the powder. The best plan I for making a cup of cocoa is to mix up a des- I sert-spoonful of the powder with a lump of ' sugar and a little boiling water and milk until a smooth paste is formed, and then to fill up j the cup with boiling water. It is much im- I proved by simmering over the fire for a few moments. From cocoa nibs or flaked cocoa thebeverage is prepared by first pouring boiling I water upon them, and then allowing the mass j to simmer from 4 to 6 hours. The cocoa I must on no account be allowed to boil, for in that case a coagulum will be formed which i cannot be dissolved in water, j COCOA-NUT OIL. A species of vegetable butter obtained from the common cocoa nut— , the fruit of Cocos nucifera, the cocoa palm. It j is separated from the dried kernel by hy- I draulic pressure. It contains oleine, and a ! solid fat often used as a candle material. Large I plantations of the cocoa palm, connected with Price’s candle company, exist in Ceylon. Cocoa-nut oil is often confounded with cocoa- ; or cacao butter, which is the produce of a very j different plant, namely, Theobroma cacao. See I CociNic Acid, Cocoa, Steaeic Acid, &c. i COD. Syn. Ga'dus Moe’ehua (Ph. L.), I Moe'ehijavulgaeis (Linn.), Asel'lus (Pliny), j L. A fish common in the seas of the northern hemisphere, from about 40° to 75° of latitude. * The flesh forms a most wholesome and excellent : article of food. The best fish are very thick ! about the neck ; and, when fresh, are marked 1 by the “ redness of the gills, freshness of the ! eyes, and the whiteness and firmness of the flesh.” The fish so largely imported from Newfoundland (Newfoendland fish) are j cod, beheaded, split open, gutted, and salted. I They are caught by millions on the ‘ Grand i Bank.* Cod-sounds are pickled in brine and also made into isinglass. The spawn is made 1 into CAViAEE, and the liver is both pressed ; and boiled for its oil (see below). Cod is geneeally cooked by boiling it, but is sometimes baked, or cut into slices and broiled or fried. Cod’s head and shoulders with oyster sauce is a favorite dish. Shrimp and anchovy sauce are also good additions. COD-LIV'ER OIL. Syn. O'letjm Moe'ehu.e, Ph. L. & D.; O'leum jecoe'is Asel'li, L. ; Huile de Moeue, Fr. The oil obtained from the liver of the common cod {oleum e iecore comparatum). Prep. 1. The livers being removed from the fish, are piled on layers of fir-twigs placed in tubs perforated at the bottom, and are allowed to remain for a considerable time exposed to the sun and air. As the livers putrefy, the oil runs out and flows through the holes in the tubs into vessels placed to re- ceive it. 2. The partially decomposed livers, cut into pieces, are heated in iron pots without water, and the oil is poured off and set aside to de- posit impurities. 3. (Savory). The livers taken from the fresh fish are carefully washed. The large veins are then divided through their whole length, and any blood in them is carefully rinsed away. The livers are now cut into pieces, again washed and drained, and after- wards placed with a small quantity of water in vessels gently heated by steam. As the heat increases, the oil separates and rises to the surface, from which it is skimmed off; and after well cooling, to allow the deposit of some of the margarine, it is repeatedly filtered through flannel bags and hnally through paper. This process gives a fine, clear, straw'- coloured oil, having but a slight smell and taste. 4. (Donovan). The perfectly fresh livers are placed in a metallic vessel and heated with constant stirring to 180° Fahr., by which treatment they break down into a uniform pulpy, liquid mass. This mass is immediately transferred to calico bags, whence the oil drains out; after filtration, while still warm, this oil is sufficiently pure for use. Obs. Three kinds of cod-liver oil are usually distinguished—the pale yellow, pale brown, and dark brown. The latter is the most impure; its odour and taste are extremely disagreeable. The most conflicting opinions have been ex- pressed by medical men as to the relative value of the yellow and light-brown varieties. Ozonized cod-liver oil is said to be prepared by passing oxygen into the oil, and then ex- posing it to sunlight. Dr. Letheby has applied the most delicate tests to this much- vaunted remedy, but has not been able to detect the slightest trace of ozone. Prop, and Uses. Cod-liver oil has acquired much reputation for its remedial powers in pulmonary consumption, scrofulous and other glandular affections, chronic gout and rheuma- tism, certain skin diseases, and several other ailments. It is generally supposed that the iodine and bromine, which are present in minute quantities in this fish, are the sub- stances to which it owes its efficacy. “ Dr. De Jongh refers its virtues to the presence of both iodine and the elements of the bile. Our own researches lead us to infer, that one of its most active constituents is free phosphorus. Good cod-liver oil contains fully -02 of this substance, as well as about *09 of phosphoric acid. Now, the marked action of minute doses of phosphorus on the nervous, vascular, and