1227 SPIRIT. I Metli'ylated Spirit. Spirit of wine to which ne tenth of its volume of imperfectly purified ood naphtha (pyroxylin spirit) has been added, be object of such addition being that of ren- ering the mixture unpotahle through its iffensive odour and taste. Methylated spirit, sold duty-free., can he employed by the iliemical manufacturer as a solvent in many recesses for which, from its greater cost, uty-paid spirit would be commercially inap- jlicuble. But in the preparation of medicines jontaining spirit, as the vehicle or menstruum !y which more active substances are adminis- ,3red, the employment of methylated spirit is ighly improper. The Council of the Phar- iiaceutical Society obtained from the Phar- lacopceia Committee of the Medical Council, he decided opinion that “the substitution of methylated’ for ‘rectified’ spirit in any of he processes of the Pharmacopoeia should be :rictly prohibited.” Proof Spirit. See above. Pyroace'tic Spirit. Syn. Acetone,* Spi- lITUS PTEOACETICtrS, L.; ACETONE, ESPEIT lYEOACETiQiiE, Fr. An inflammable volatile Iquid obtained with caebonic acid and other .roducts when the metallic acetates in an an- jydrous state are subjected to destructive dis- jillation. The acetate of lead is the most jligible salt for this purpose. ' Prep. 1. Dried acetate' of lead is carefully jistilled in a large earthen or coated-glass jetort, by a heat gradually raised to redness, [he volatile products being passed through a jondenser well supplied with cold water. The listillation is continued until nothing but I nely divided lead (lead pyrophorus) remains ii the retort. The receiver contains cetjde iCETONE, which is to be saturated with car- pnate of potassa, and afterwards rectified in a irater bath from chloride of calcium. 2. By passing the vapour of strong acetic cid through an iron tube heated to dull red- iess, and condensing the acetone thus formed. ' Obs. In both of the above processes car- ;onic acid and other permanent gases are pro- uced, consequently the receiver must not fit 00 closely to the tube of the condenser. 1 Prop. Colourless, limpid, of peculiar odour, Ind very inflammable, giving a brilliant flame, |/ithout smoke; boiling-point 132° Fahr.; ip. gr. *792. It dissolves resins and essential jils. See Mesitilol, Mesityl, Metacetone, |:c. j Pyroxyl'ic Spirit. Syn. Pyeoligneods iPiEiT, Wood s., Medicinal naphtha. Wood |r., Hydeated oxide of methyl ; Spieittjs i YEOXYLICHS (Ph. D.), L. A light volatile l.quid, discovered by P. Taylor, in 1812, among the liquid products of the distillation of dry !/ood. It has been shown by Dumas and I’eligot to be “really a second alcohol, forming jn ether, and a series of compounds (methyl- jEEiEs) exactly corresponding with those of ;inous spirit, and, in some points, even more loinplete than the latter.” Prep. Crude pyroligneous acid (which con- tains about Ig of the spirit) is subjected to distillation, and the first or more volatile portion which passes over is neutralized with hydrate of lime. After repose, the clear liquid is separated from the oil which floats on the surface, and from the sediment at the bottom of the vessel; this, when redistilled, forms the WOOD SPIEIT OF COMMEECE. It may be strengthened in the same manner as ordinary alcohol, by rectification, and ultimately ren- dered PUEE by careful distillation from quick- lime by the heat of a water bath. Berzelius recommends the crude spirit to be agitated with a fatty oil, to remove empyreumatic matter, and then to rectify it, first, from recently burnt charcoal, and next with chloride of calcium. Prop., 8fc. Pure pyroxylic spirit is a trans- parent colourless liquid, having a penetrating ethereal smell, and a hot disagreeable taste; it is very inflammable, burning with a pale blue flame. It is neutral to test paper; mixes with water, alcohol, and ether, in all propor- tions ; and boils at 152° Fahr.; sp. gr. *798 at 68° Fahr. (Regnault and Liebig.) Dr. Ure states the sp. gr. to he ‘824 at 60°; the Dublin College makes it *846. That of the latter must therefore have contained a little water. It does not dissolve India rubber and gutta percha, like mineral or true naphtha. Pyroxylic spirit is distinguished from ace- tone or PYEOACETIC SPIEIT by the character of its flame, and by freely dissolving chloride of calcium, which is quite insoluble in the latter. In a mixture of these two liquids two distinct strata are formed when this sub- stance, either in powder or concentrated solu- tion, is added. Pyroxylic spirit is distinguished from viNOHS SPIEIT by the action of potassa (see page 61— Pur. 3), and by its lower boiling-point. The presence of alcohol in a mixture of the two is readily detected by the violent effervescence which follows the addition of a little concen- trated nitric acid (sp. gr. 1*45). The proportion of alcohol may be determined by treating the mixture with a recent solution of mercury in nitric acid (1 mercury to 5 or 6 of acid), aiding the action, if required, by a gentle heat. The effervescence w*hich ensues, and the formation of a detonating precipitate (fulm:inating meechey), are not only characteristic of the presence of alcohol, but the weight of the ful- minate thus formed is nearly equal to that of the alcohol contained in the wood spirit. (Ure.) Uses, Sfc. Chiefly to dissolve resins and volatile oils, especially shell-lac, and as a sub- stitute for alcohol in spirit lamps. As a medi- cine, it is anodyne and sedative; and has been beneficially employed by Drs. Christison, Hastings, and Neligan, to allay the harassing cough, troublesome vomiting, and excessive expectoration, in phthisis and some other