AFTER-PAINS—AGRICULTURE. 50 moral development which the bustle of our ‘ business-hours’ may not permit. The studious, persevering, and well-disposed, will find time for liealthful recreation as well as mental and moral cultivation during ‘ after-hours,’ capable of producing the most advantageous results both to the individual and to society. In this way, the unpleasant reflections arising from ‘ after- wit’ may be generaUy avoided. AFT'ER-PAINS. Those following child- birth. The only remedy is patience; they may, however, be frequently alleviated by small doses of morphia or liquor opii sedativus. Heated cloths and warm fomentations are sometimes useful, particularly if assisted by moderate but sufficient pressure on the abdo- men, by means of a broad bandage. They seldom follow with severity the first birth. AFT'ER-WASH (-wosh). In the art of the distiller^ the liquor in the still after the spirit has been drawn over. AG'ARIC. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. AgarTcijm, AgaeTcus, L. ; Blattekschwamm, Pilz, SCHWAMM, Ger. In botany, a genus of ‘ fungi,’ of numerous species, embracing the mushrooms and champignons. Of these plants some are edible j others poisonous. The term is also commonly applied to the boletus found on oaks (toechwood), and on larches (male agaeic). Fly-agaric. Fly mush'eoom ; AgaeT- CES mesca"eia, Linn.; Amani'ta m. One of the most narcotic and poisonous of our fungi, producing, in small doses, intoxication and a pleasing species of delirium; for which purpose it is commonly employed in Kams- chatka. (Hooker.) It possesses the singular property of imparting an intoxicating quality to the urine, which continues for a long time after taking it. This secretion is, therefore, commonly saved by the natives during a scarcity of the fungus. “ Thus, with a few amanitcB, a party of drunkards may keep up their debauch for a week and the intoxica- tion so produced is capable of “ being propa- gated through five or six individuals.” (Langsdorff.) Water in which it has been boiled is poisonous; but the boiled fungus itself is inert. The liquid from it is used as a ELY-POISON; whence the name mush- room is derived. It may be known by its rich orange-red colour in autumn. See Champignons, Fengi, Mesheooms, &c. AG'ATE (-ate,-et];). [Eng., .Fr.] Syn. Acha'tes (-ka'tez), L. A semi-pellucid un- crystallised species of quartz, remarkable for its hardness, variety of colour, and suscepti- bility of receiving a high polish. It is an aggregate of various siliceous minerals, of which chalcedony appears generally to be the base. Carnelian, jasper, amethyst, and other similar minerals, often enter into its composi- tion. The colours are often delicately ar- ranged in stripes, bands, or clouds. Those which take an angular form, as the Scotch pebble, are called foetification agates. It is the least valuable of the precious stones, and is chiefly made into rings, seals, beads, burnishers, &c., on account of its hardness. Its powder is used for cleansing and polishing iron, brass, &c., and to sharpen edge-tools. AGE (aje). [Eng., Fr.] Syn. .^'tas, L.; Altee, Ger. See Malt-liqeoes, Doses, Peesceibing, Wine, &c. A'GENT. [Eng., Fr., Ger.] Syn. A'gens, L. Anything which acts on another. In chemistry, that which operates changes on other bodies. In medicine, a cause possessing some particular activity. In pathology, the extraneous cause of disease producing morbific action. In therapeutics, any substances, &c., employed as a medicine or remedy. AG'NAIL. See Whitlow. AG'RICULTURE. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Agei- COLA'TiONfj Ageicelte"ea, L. Literally, the culture of fields; appr., the art or practice of cultivating land for the purpose of raising crops and live stock on the large scale, in dis- tinction from ‘ horticulture,’ or the cultivation of gardens. The origin and progress of agriculture, the description of the mechanical operations of the agriculturist, the selection of the proper breeds of animals, and varieties or classes of plants, the improvement of the local climate by shelter and drainage, as well as other like matters, do not properly come within the province of this work. Our remarks will, therefore, be confined chiefly to a few points which may be elucidated by chemistry and its allied sciences. The principles of agriculture are derived from a knowledge of the nature of plants and animals, of soils and manures, in their several relations with chemistry and physiology, and as influenced by climate, the seasons, and the weather. Plants are organised beings which take up their food by means of roots from the interior of the soil, and by means of their leaves from the atmosphere; animals are or- ganised beings which select their food from vegetables growing on the surface of the soil, or from other animals, their food being pre- pared, before being absorbed into their system, by means of a stomach. The nature of these elementary principles being understood, even though imperfectly, improvements may be effected by art, which will greatly conduce to the increase of the agricultural produce ob- tained from any given surface of land. Among these principles, none are more important than those which relate to the amelioration of the soil, and maintaining it in a high state of fertility. All soils are found to be productive in pro- portion to the organised matter which they contain. This is a law of nature, which, fol- lowed up by man, has led to the use of ma- nures ; as the fact everywhere observed, that no plant can live without water, has led to irrigation; and, as the observation, that the excess of water is injurious, has led to surface and under-draining. Maneees are composed