BLEACHING. 333 viously treated with a very weak bath of soft I soap. In the case of woollen fabrics the operations of' purifying^ or ‘ whitening’ the wool, beyond the removal of the ' yolk,’ are, for the most part, mixed up with the weaving and working of it. The ‘ pieces ’ leave the hands of the weaver of a dingy gray-colour, loaded with oil, dirt, and dressing. They then pass to the ‘ fulling-mill,’ where they are treated with fuller s earth and soap, often preceded with ammonia or stale urine, after each of which they are well washed out or ‘ scoured ’ wdth cold water, and are then ready for the dyer. When it is intended to obtain them very white, or to dye them of a very delicate shade, they are commonly ‘ sulphured;’ after which they are washed or ‘milled’ in cold water for some hours, 2i\\it\e finely-ground indigo being added towards the end, to increase their whiteness; an addition also made when the cloth is suffi- ciently white without the ‘ sulphuring ’ pro- cess. The mode of ‘STJLPHUEIN&’ woollen ‘ goods ’ is to hang them up on pegs or rails, or, in the case of fleece-wool, to spread it about, at the upper part of a close, lofty room or chamber, called a ‘sulphur-stove.’ In each i corner of this room is set a cast-iron pot con- taining sulphur, which, after the introdiiction of the ‘ goods,’ is set on Are, when the door at the lower part of the chamber is shut tight and ‘clayed.’ This is commonly done overnight; and by the morning the ‘ bleaching ’ being finished, the ‘ goods ’ are removed, ‘ washed,’ and ‘ azured.’ Sulphuring, unless very skilfully managed, ' imparts a ‘ harsh feel ’ to woollen ‘ goods,’ which is best removed by a very weak bath of I soap-and-water (lukewarm); but the action of soap in part reproduces the previous yellowish- white tinge. ‘ Milling ’ with cold, or luke-warm water, tinged with ‘ indigo,’ is the best sub- stitute. Obs. Raw wool loses from 35 to 45g of its weight by ‘ scouring,’ and 1 to 2g more in the subsequent operations of the bleacher; the loss being in direct proportion to the fineness of the Itaple. *** The above are the four principal appli- cations of the art of bleaching; but, in tech- nical language, the words bleaching, bleacher, bleachery, bleach-works, &c., when employed alone, are understood to have reference only to cotton and linen. This has arisen from the I enormous extent of these manufactures, and from the process of bleaching them forming a business entirely distinct from that of weaving, ' dyeing, or printing them. The following, with the exception of the first, are of comparatively minor importance and interest:— V. Materials for Paper :—Old rags for the manufacture of paper, and paper-pulp, are now almost universally bleached with chlorine or chloride of lime; the former being generally used in France, and the latter in England. The process usually consists in (1) boiling in an alkaline lye to remove grease and dirt, (2) WASHING, (3) PRESSING, (4) DEVILING Or tearing up the pressed cake into fine shreds or pulp, (5) ‘ CHEMICKING,’ with agitation, for about an hour, in a clear solution of chloride of lime,' followed by (6) washing, (7) souring with dilute hydrochloric acid at 1 or 2° Tw., or ‘ treatment ’ with a solution of some anti- chlor, or both, and (8) a final washing and PRESSING. For the common kinds of paper, the operations included in No. 7 are omitted; but unless the whole of the ‘lime-salt’ be removed from the ‘ pulp,’ the paper made of it is liable to turn brown and become rotten by age. In some cases rags are bleached before being ‘ divided ’ and ‘ pulped.’ Cot- ton-waste is bleached in a similar way to rags. In France, the chlorine, in a gaseous form, is passed from the ‘ generators’ into the ‘ bleach-cisterns’ containing the pulp, which in this case must be fitted with close covers. VI. Printed Paper, as Books, Engravings, Maps, ^c.— These when stained or discoloured may be ‘ whitened’ by (1) ‘ wetting ’ them with pure clean water, (2) ‘ plunging ’ them into a dilute solution of chloride of lime, (3) ‘ passing ’ them through water soured with hydrochloric acid, and then (4) through pure water until every trace of acid be removed. This process may be further improved by further ‘ dipping’ them into a weak solution of some antichlor, and again ‘ washing ’ them, before finally drying them. It is only rare and valuable original works or specimens of art that are worth this treatment, which, owing to the very nature of paper, requires considerable address to manage. In many cases a sufficient degree of renovation may be effected by simply exposing the articles, pre- viously slightly moistened, to the fumes of burning sulphur, followed by passing them through a vessel oipure water. VII. Straw, Straw-plait, and articles made of them, are, on the large scale, usually bleached by (1) a hot steep or boil in a weak solution of caustic soda, or a stronger one of soda-ash, followed (2) by washing and (3) by exposure to the fumes of burning sulphur. To effect the last, the ‘ good ’ are suspended in a ‘ close chamber ’ connected with a ‘ small stove,’ in which brimstone is kept burning. On the small scale, a large ‘ chest ’ or ‘ box ’ is com- monly employed. A piece of brick, or an old box-iron heater, heated to dull redness, is placed at the bottom of an ‘ iron-crock ’ or ‘ earthen pan,’ a few fragments of roll sul- 1 The ‘ strength’varies with the colour and quality of the rags. From 2 to 4 Ih. per cwt. of rags is a common proportion; hut for dyed printed rags as much as 7 or even 8 lb. per cwt. are often employed. It is better, how- ever, to prolong the process with a weaker solution, than to liasten it by using the chloride in excess. Large rectan- gular cisterns of wood, or oislate, are commonly employed as the ‘ bleach-vessels.’ Cisterns of loood or brick-work lined with gutta percha or with aspkalto-bitumen, jure em- ployed in some paper-mills, and answer admiiably.