1019 OXALIC ACID. 1 a. Nitric acid (sp. gr. 1*42), 5 parts, diluted itli water, 10 j)arts, is poured on sugar, 1 part, [nd the mixture is digested at a gentle heat, as )ug as gaseous products are evolved; the liquid j, then concentrated by evaporation until it de- [osits crystals on cooling; the crystals, after eing drained and freed from superfluous mois- ire, are redissolved in the smallest possible jiiantity of boiling water, and the solution is set jdde to crystallize. The residuary ‘ mother- ;ater ' is treated with a little fresh nitric acid pay 1^ part) at a gentle heat, after which it is jraporated, as before, for a second crop of I'ystals. This process is repeated until the plution is exhausted. The brownish-coloured jrystals thus obtained are allowed to efflo- j^sce by exposure to dry air, and are then re- jissolved and recrystallized. By repeating j lis treatment they yield pure colourless oxalic cid at the third crystallization. b. (Schlesinger.) Sugar (dried at 257° ahr.), 4 parts, and nitric acid^ (sp. gr. 1‘38), 3 parts, are digested together, as before, and 3 soon as the evolution of gas ceases the quid is boiled down to one sixth of its original olume, and set aside to crystallize. The 'hole process may be completed in about 2 ours, and in 1 vessel, and yields of beauti- illy crystallized oxalic acid, at the first crys- allization, a quantity equal to 56 to 60g of lie weight of the sugar employed. c. (Ure.) Nitric acid (sp. gr. 1'4), 4 parts, ind sugar, 1 part, are digested together by I he heat of a water bath, and as soon as gas eases to be extricated the vessel is removed "om the heat, and set aside to cool and crys- tallize. “The use of a little sulphuric acid [long with the nitric acid contributes to in- irease the product.” 2. From potato- or dexteine-sttgae :— Xyren.) From the washed pulp of potatoes, [oiled for some hours with water, q. s., in a 'uden vessel, with about 22 of oil of vitriol, ntil the fecula of the pulp is converted into iccharine matter, shown by the liquid being 0 longer turned blue by iodine; the whole i then filtered through horse-hair bags or :rainers, and the filtrate is evaporated until ,s density is such that a gallon of it weighs 4 to 14^ lb.; in this state it is converted ito oxalic acid by treatment with nitric acid 1 the way already described. A similar pro- ess was patented some years ago by Messrs. )avy, Macmurdo, and Co. 3. From sawdust :— (Roberts, Dale, & Co., Patent.) This pro- ess is the one now usually employed for the lanufacture of oxalic acid on the large scale. t is based on Gay-Lussac’s discovery, that .’ood and similar substances are converted iito oxalic acid by fusion with caustic alkali, he practical details of the process are thus ivcu by Dr. Murray Thomson, of Edinburgh : -(1) Hydrate of soda and hydrate of potassa, fixed in the proportion of 2 equivalents of he former to 1 equivalent of the latter, are dissolved, and solution evaporated until of specific gravity 1’35; sawdust is now stirred in until a thick paste results. (2) This paste is then heated on iron plates, during which it is constantly stirred; water is first given off"; the mass then swells; inflammable gases, hy- drogen and carburetted hydrogen, are evolved, along with a peculiar aromatic odour. When the temperature has been maintained at 400° for one or two hours, this stage of the process is complete; the mass has now a dark colour, and contains only 1 to 4 per cent, of ‘ oxalic acid,’ and about *5 per cent, of ‘ formic.’ The bulk, therefore, of the mass at this stage con- sists of a substance whose nature is not yet known, but which is intermediate between the ‘ cellulose ’ and ‘ oxalic acid.’ (3) The next stage consists in a simple extension of the last, in which the mass is heated till quite dry, care being taken that no charring takes place. It now contains the maximum quantity of oxalic * acid, 28 to 30 per cent. (4) This oxalic acid is now combined with both potassa and soda in the gray powder resulting from stage 3. This powder is now washed on a filter with solution of carbonate of soda, which seems to have the singular and unexpected power of decomposing the ‘oxalate of potassa,’ and converting it into * oxalate of soda.’ At all events, it is quite true that all traces of po- tassa are washed out with the solution of car- bonate of soda. The only explanation that occurs to account for this unusual decompo- sition is that oxalate of soda is a more insolu- ble salt than oxalate of potassa, and therefore may be formed by preference. (5) This ox- alate of soda is now decomposed by boiling milk of lime. ‘ Oxalate of lime ’ falls as a pre- cipitate, and soda remains in solution. This soda is boiled down, and again made use of with fresh sawdust. This recovery of alkali is also practised with the potassa salt which filters through in the last stage. (6) The ox- alate of lime is now decomposed in leaden vessels with sulphuric acid. ‘ Sulphate of lime ’ is precipitated, and oxalic acid is in solution, which is now evaporated, and the acid sepa- rates in crystals, which now need only to be recrystallized to make them quite pure, and fit the acid for all the purposes for which it is employed. Prod. By this ingenious pro- cess 2 lb. of sawdust are made to yield 1 lb. of oxalic acid. Prop., Sfc. Colourless, transparent, pris- matic crystals, possessing a powerfully sour taste and acid reaction; these effloresce in warm dry air, with loss of 28g (2 eq.) of water, and then form a white powder, which may be sublimed, in part, without decomposition; the crystals are soluble in 8 parts of water (9 parts, “and form a solution of sp. gr. 1*045,” —Ure) at 60° Fahr., in their own weight or less of boiling water, and in about 4 parts of alcohol; with the acids, it forms salts called OXALATES. Tests.—1. Solution of chloride of barium