GIN. 691 esteemed samples of English gin; and, if pos- sible, the products are even more unlike genuine Hollands. Any person may easily satisfy himself of the truth of this assertion by actual experiment on the small scale. The cause of this incongruity has arisen chiefly from the writers not being practically ac- quainted with the subject, and from the disin- clination of well-informed practical men to divulge, gratuitously, what they conceive to be valuable secrets. Hence the utter failure of any attempts to produce either gin or Hol- lands from the receipts usually published. The authors appear to have all imbibed a juniper-berry mania—probably from the im- bibition of their favourite beverage. Oil of junipery in the hands of these gentlemen, appears to be a perfect aqua mirabilis, that readily converts whiskey into gin, and imparts the rich creamy flavour of ‘ Schiedam Hollands’ to crude corn or molasses spirit. But theory and experiment sometimes disagree. In prac- tice, it is found that the true flavour of ‘ foreign geneva ’ cannot be imparted to spirit by juniper alone, and that the ‘English gin’ of the present day depends for its flavour on no such a substance. The following formulm are merely given as specimens; and it is proper to remark, that every distiller has his own receipt for this notorious beverage. Hence it is that the gins of no two distillers are of precisely the same flavour; and this difference is still more marked when the dis- tillers reside in parts of the country remote from each other. Booth’s, Smith’s, and Nicholson’s gins have each a characteristic flavour, readily perceived by their respective votaries; whilst the difference between ‘ Ply- ^ mouth ’ or ‘ Bristol gin,’ and the ‘ gin of the ^metropolis,’ is as remarkable as that between Barclay’s XXX’ and ‘Guinness’s bottled stout.’ These variations in flavour generally depend on the use of more or less flavouring matter, or of a spirit more or less clean or free from taint j and, less frequently, on the addition of a small quantity of some peculiar aromatic, which exercises a modifying in- fluence on the chief flavouring ingredient. In many cases the flavour has originated from accident, but the consumers having become accustomed to, and hence relishing, that par- ticular ‘palate,’ it is found to be unwise or commercially impossible to alter it. Any change in these matters is therefore looked upon in every distillery as a dangerous inno- vation, which w’ould prove more prejudicial to the prosperity of its exchequer than the repeal of the duty on French wines and brandy, or even a frightful conflagration. The distillers, like the brewers, are thorough conservatives in all matters connected with the flavour of their liquors. In the preparation of gin, both ‘sweetened’ and ‘ unsweetened,’ and indeed of liquors generally, the greatest possible care must be taken to avoid an excess of flavouring. The most esteemed samples are those that consist of very pure spirit, slightly flavoured. Prep. 1. Clean corn spirit, at proof, 80 gall.; newly rectifled oil of turpentine, 1|: pint; mix well by violent agitation, add culinary salt, 14 lb., dissolved in water, 40 gall.; again well agitate, and distil over 100 gallons, or until the * faints ’ begin to rise. Product. 100 gall, of gin 22 u. p., besides 2 gall, con- tained in the ^faints* If 100 gall, at 17 u. p. are required, 85 gall, of proof spirit, or its equivalent at any other strength, must be employed. 2. Proof spirit (as above), 8 gall.; oil of turpentine, 1 fl. oz.; salt, 1^ lb., dissolved in water, 4 gall.; draw over 10 gall., as before. 22 u. p. 3. Clean corn spirit, 80 gall.; oil of tur- pentine, 1 pint; pure oil of juniper, 3 fl. oz.; salt, 21 lb.; water, 35 gall.; draw over 100 gall., as before. 22 u. p. 4. To the last, before distillation, add, of oil of caraway, ^ fl. oz.; oil of sweet fennel, \fl.oz.} cardamoms (ground), 8 oz. 5. To No. 3, add, of essential oil of almonds, 1 dr.; essence of lemon, 4 dr. 6. To No. 1, before distillation, add of creasote, 3 fl. dr. 7. To No. 3, add of creasote, 2 dr. 8. Proof spirit, 80 gall.; oil of turpentine, f pint; oil of juniper, ;j pint; creasote, 2 dr.; oranges and lemons, sliced, of each, 9 in no.; macerate for a week, and distil 100 gall. 22 u. p. 9. To No. 1, add of rectifled fusel oil, ^ pint. 10. To No. 1, add of oil of juniper, ^ pint. Concluding remarks. The oil of turpentine for this purpose should be of the best quality, and not that usually vended for painting, which always contains resin and often fixed oil. Juniper berries, bitter almonds, and the aromatic seeds, may be used instead of the essential oils; but the latter are the most convenient. Turpentine conveys a plain-GIN flavour,—juniper berries or oil gives a Hol- lands flavour,—creasote imparts a certain degree of smokiness, or whiskey flavour,— lemon and the other aromatics, a ckeami- NESS, EHLNESS, and EICHNESS. The flavour imparted by cardamoms, when used judi- ciously, is peculiarly agreeable and appro- priate. That from caraways is also in general esteem. Cassia in extremely small proportions also tells well. Fusel oil gives a whiszey- GIN flavour; and in conjunction with creasote or crude pyroligneous acid, a full whiskey flavour. The only danger in the employment of aU these articles is using too much of them. When this misfortune happens, the remedy is to add sufficient plain spirit to reduce the flavour to the proper standard. The ceeami- ness and smoothness so much admired in ‘foreign geneva’ results chiefly from age. The English rectifier endeavours to imitate this by the addition of a little sugar. A rich MELLOWNESS, that combines well with gins