FURNITURE—FUSTIC. 676 of one carpet may Le taken to alter the size of another. FUR'NITURE. See Fbench Polishino, Oil, Polish, Vahnisii, &c. FURS. Of these the most valuable are EioiiNE and SAELE. Fur skins, when unpre- pared, or merely dried, go under the name of * EELTKY.’ (Bi’ande.) Furs may be preserved from moths and other insects by placing a little colocynth pufp (hitter apple), or spice (cloves, pimento, &c.), wrapped in muslin, among them; or they may he washed in a very weak solution of corrosive suhlimate in warm water (10 or 15 gr. to the pint), and afterwards carefully dried. As well as every other species of clothing, they should he kept in a clean, dry place. FU'SEL-OIL. Syn. Fousel-oil, Potato o.. Oil of potato spieit,Geain o.,Grain-spiiut o., Marc-beandy o.. Crude hydrated oxide OF AMYLE. Source. An offensive, strong-smell- ing oil produced along with alcohol during the fermentation of grain, potatoes, &c., on the large scale, and which gives the peculiar and disagreeable flavour and odour to raw whiskej'. It is found chiefly in the last portion of the spirit which passes over, called the ^faints,’ to which it imparts its characteristic odour and flavour. By rectifying the faints at a very gentle heat, most of the alcohol and water first pass over together with only a little fusel- oil, whilst the latter forms the residuum in the still. Various names (as above) are given to the crude oil thus obtained, according to its source. In each case it essentially consists of HYDRATED OXIDE OF AMYLE,^ but trifling and variable quantities of other organic compounds are mixed with it, which slightly modify its character, more particularly its odour and flavour. The oil of potato-spirit is the purest form of crude fusel-oil. Ohs. Tlie exertions of the distiller are di- rected, as much as possible, to lessen the for- mation of fusel-oil during the fermentation of his ‘ worts,’ and to eliminate, during tlie dis- tillation and rectification of his liquors, the greatest possible proportion of that with which they may be contaminated. Prop., $)C. Fusel-oil is a nearly colourless vo- latile liquid, with a rather high boiling-point, a durable, penetrating, offensive smell, and an acrid, burning taste; when swallowed, it occa- sions nausea, giddiness, headache, &c.; in slightly larger quantities, vomiting, delirium, oppressive respiration, and lessened sensibility to pain; its vapour also produces these effects. In quantity, it is a narcotic poison. The greater intoxicating power of whiskey, more especially that from raw grain, than other spiiut, is due to the larger cjuantity of fusel-oil which it contains. This appears to be well known to the lower class of whiskey drinkers in these countries, and to the consumers of corn brandy in some of the northern parts of Europe. The last arc said to frequently demand to he served 1 Sec 163. with ‘'a glass of good fusel.” In England, fusel-oil is chiefly used for lamps and varnishes. Purific. The ahylic alcohol (alcohol amylicum) of the Dublin College is thus pre- pared. Introduce the ordinary fusel-oil of the distilleries into a small still or retort, connected with a condenser, and apply heat; as soon as the oil begins to flow over, unmixed with water, the receiver should be changed, and the distil- lation resumed, and carried nearly to dryness ; the product in the second receiver, and the oily matter which separates from the water in the first receiver, are to be reserved for use. It is employed in the preparation of vale- rianate OF SODA, Ph. D. See Ajiyle (Hy- drate). FUSIBILITY. The property by which solid bodies assume the liquid state under the influence of heat. See Melting-point and Liquefaction. FU'SIBLE ALLOY'. Syn. Fusible metal. Prep. 1. Bismuth, 2 parts ; lead, 5 parts; tin, 3 parts. Melts in boiling water. 2. (D’Arcet’s.) Bismuth, 8 parts; lead, 5 parts; tin, 3 parts. Melts below 212° Fahr. 3. (Walker). Bismuth 8, tin 4, lead, 5 parts j antimony, 1 part. The metals should be re- peatedly melted and poured into drops, until they are well mixed. 4. (Onion’s.) Lead, 3 parts; tin, 2 parts; bismuth, 5 parts. Melts at 197° Fahr. 5. To the last, after removing it from the fire, add of quicksilver (warm), 1 part. Liquid at 172°, solid at 140° Fahr. Obs. The first four of the above are used to make toy-spoons, to surprise children by their melting in hot liquors. A little mercury may be added to lower their melting-points. Nos. 2 and 3 are specially adapted for making elec- trotype moulds.- The beautiful casts of the French medals known to all cleetrotypers as Cliehee moulds are in the alloy No. 3. The above alloys are also used to form pencils for writing on asses’ skin, or paper prepared by rubbing burnt hartshorn into it, &c.; also as a METAL BATH in the laboratory.•*’ The last is used for anatomical injections. FU'SION. Syn. Fusio, L. The liquefaction of solid bodies by the action of heat. The term aqueous fusion has been applied to the melting of salts in their combined water when heated ; and the term igneous fusion, to the liquefaction of bodies by heat alone. The vessels in which substances ^refused are formed of various materials and shapes, accord- ing to the properties of the solid operated on, and principally with reference to the degree of heat required for its fusion. In every case the containing vessel should be capable of sus- taining the proper degree of heat, without either melting or cracking, and should also be unacted on by the substances melted in them. See Crucible, Furnace, &c. FUS'TIC. Syn. Fustic wood. Two dis- 2 See page 515. ’ See Bath (in chemUtrg), page 278.