711 GRAPHITE—GREEN PIGMENTS. Grapes, in bunches, are preserved by wrap- ping them in silver paper, and packing them in dry bran. Each bunch is suspended by the stem with the fingers of one hand, whilst the bran is poured round it with the other; the jar being occasionally gently shaken as the process of packing proceeds. Some paper is then laid over the top of the jar, the mouth or cover of which is, lastly, tied firmly over with bladder, to exclude the air and moisture. See Feijit, &c. GRAPHTTE. See Plumbago. GRAV'EL. A collection of small pebbles commonly mixed with sand or clay, or both. Gravel for garden walks is chosen for its fine colour and binding properties. The gravel of Kensington and Wimbledon is esteemed the finest in the world.—Gravel walks, when once in order, may be rendered nearly equal to asphalt by pouring over them tar or a mixture of tar and pitch, absorption being promoted, if required, by the application of a hot iron. Gravel. In pathology, a term popularly applied to calculous matter formed in the kid- neys, and passing off in the urine; and some- times to distinct calculi or concretions in the bladder itself. See Calculus. GRAVIM'ETER. See Htdeometee. GRAVITY. Syn. Geavitation. The at- tractive force by which bodies fall towards the centre of the earth. Weight is the measure of gravity. The determination of the relative weights of bodies with reference to a given standard, is explained under Spe- cific Geavitt. GRA'VY. The juice or liquid matter that I drains from dressed meat after it is placed on the dish for serving. The common practice among cooks is to pour a spoonful or two of boiling water or broth over the joint, to in- crease the quantity. The natural gravy that oozes from the meat after it is cut is the richest and most wholesome. Made gravies ! are prepared by adding spice and flavouring to \ the foregoing, or to strong meat soup. See i Sauce. GRAY. Syn. Geet ; Geis, Fr. A mixture of black and white. Delicate grays result from mixtures of the three elementary colours, I red, yellow, and blue, in which the blue pre- ponderates to a greater or less extent. GRAY DYE. Syn. Teinte geise. Gray is dyed with the same materials as black, but both the bath and mordant are used in a more diluted state. Cotton ‘goods’ may be ‘worked’in sumach and then in copperas;^ this gives rather a bluish gray, which may be modified to any particular hue by the addition of suitable colouring matter. To make it yellowish, a small amount of fustic and alum are employed; to make it ‘ fuller,’ peachwood and Lima-wood with alum are used. The methods of obtaining gray on silk and wool are very numerous; they are similar in prin- ciple to the above, all depending on the blend- 1 Seepni^tf321. ing of the three primary colours, or on the modification of weak blacks. See Black Dye. GREASE. A general term applied to soft animal fats; as beae’s oeease, ooose-oeease, &c. Grease. An inflammatory afiection of the heels of horses, which produces dryness, scurfi- ness, and stiffness. The treatment consists of emollient poultices, accompanied with physic and diuretic balls, to subdue the inflammation, followed by mild astringent lotions or oint- ments. GREAVES. Syn. Geayes. The sediment of melted tallow, consisting chiefly of animal membranes mixed with fat, made up into cakes. Used as a coarse food for dogs. GRE'CIAN WATER. See Haie Dyes. GREEN. Syn. Vieidis,L.; Veet, Fr. Of the colour of the leaves of growing plants; subst. a green colour. GREEN DYE. Syn. Teinte yeete, Fr. All the green dyes in use, with the practically unimportant exceptions of Chinese green and oxide of chromium green, are compounded of blue and yellow.' The ‘ goods,’ in practice, are generally dyed blue first, observing to regulate the shade according to that of the intended green; they are then dried, rinsed, and passed through a yellow bath, with the like precau- tions, until the proper shade is produced. See Blue Dye, Yellow Dye, &c. GREEN PIG'MENTS. Several of the green pigments of commerce are obtained from cop- per. Oxide of chromium furnishes some which are very beautiful. Many are formed by the mere mechanical admixture of blue and yellow pigments. The bright blues and yellows, when mixed in this way, produce the ‘liveliest’ greens; orange, or red and blue, and the yellowish browns'and blue, the more ‘ dingy ’ greens. In this way are produced all the ‘extemporaneous’ greens of the artist. Nickel and titanium also furnish green colours, but these are not in common use. The fol- lowing list embraces all the best-known and most useful green pigments:— Arsen'ical Green. Arsenite and aceto- arsenite of copper. See Scheele’s and SCHWEINFUET Geeen {below). Barth’s Green. From yellow lake, Prussian blue, and clay, ground together. Green Bice. Same as mountain green. Bremen Green. This is properly green ver- diter, but other preparations are frequently sold under the name. Brighton Green. A mixture of impure acetate of copper and chalk, prepared as fol- lows :— To sulphate of copper, 7 lb., add sugar of lead, 3 lb.; each separately dissolved in water, 5 pints; mix the solutions, stir in of whiting, 24 lb., set the resulting paste on chalk stones, and w'hen dry grind it to powder. Brunswick Green. This is properly a crude e/i/oHde q/’cojojoer, but a mixture of carbonate