BRANDY. 349 adulteration is known under the questionable name ^ improving.’ Both of these operations have now been so long practised with impunity as to form the leading qualifications demanded in a ‘ cellarman.^ Indeed the adulteration of liquors of every class is the eule—not the * exception/ Yet such is the poverty of palate of the majority of English brandy-drinkers, that this adulteration is often not suspected, much less detected, even when it is carried to the most fraudulent extent. So long as the foreign spirit constitutes about ^ of the mix- ture, and was at first of ‘ decent ^ quality and age, the infatuated brandy-drinker smacks his lips, and cunningly holding up his glass between the light and his eye, exclaims, “ Ah ! this is a drop of the real.” The following formulae for reducing brandy'’ are those of two large wholesale dealers, who have deliberately assured us, that they con- ceive themselves much more honest than their brethren in the same line :— 1. Cognac brandy (10 u.p.), 20 gal.; British or malt brandy (17 u.p.), 5 gal. 2. To 72 gal. of full flavoured French brandy, are added 10 gal. of spirit of wine (58 o.p.), 8 gal. of water, and 1 pint of good colouring; the whole is then well ‘ rummaged up,’ and allowed to stand two days. 3. French brandy, and patent brandy (i. e., best malt-brandy), equal parts. See Alco- HOLMETEY, Spieit, &c. (also below). British Brandy Syn. Malt beandt, &c. For a long time this liquor was distilled from spoiled wine and the dregs of wine, both British and foreign, mixed with beer-bottoms, spoiled raisins, and similar articles. Malt and molasses spirit were afterwards employed, as at the present day, for the purpose; but it was long considered as “ an unpardonable and wicked misuse of these articles.” Modern ex- perience, however, has proved, that perfectly pure and tasteless malt-spirit is, in this country, the most convenient, if not the best kind, to form the basis of an imitation brandy. Prep. 1. To malt-spirit (finest, flavourless, at proof), 12 gal.; add of water, 5 gal.; crude red-tartar or wine-stone, | lb. (pre- viously dissolved in boiling water, 1 gal.); acetic ether, 6 fl. oz.; French wine-vinegar, 2 quarts; French plums lb.; Sherry- wine bottoms, \ mix in a fresh-emptied sherry or F.-brandy cask, and let them stand together for 14 days (or better, for a month), frequently * rummaging up ’ the liquor with a stick; next draw over 15 gallons of the mix- ture from a still furnished with an agitator. Put the ‘ rectifled spirit ’ into a clean, fresh- emptied Cognac-brandy cask, and add of tinc- ture of catechu, 1 pint; oak-shavings (fresh and clean), 1 lb.; and spirit colouring, (about) f pint; agitate occasionally for a few days, and then let it repose for a week, when it will be fltfor use.—Prod. 15 gal. of beandy, 17 u.p. Age greatly improves it. 2. Pure spirit (as before), 99 gal. ; red tartar (dissolved), 7 lb.; acetic ether, ^ gal. ; wine-vinegar, 5 gal.; bruised raisins or French plums, 14 lb.; bitter-almond cake (bruised, and steeped for 24 hours in twice its weight of water, which must he used with it), ^ lb. ; water, q. s.; macerate, as before, and draw over, with a quick fire, 120 gal. To the dis- tilled spirit add a few lb. of oak-shavings, 2 lb. of powdered catechu (made into a paste with hot water), and burnt-sugar colouring, q. s.; and ‘ finish ’ as last. —■ Prod. 120 gal. of spirit fully 17 u.p. Equal in quality to the last. 3. Clean spirit (17 u.p.), 100 gal.; nitric ether, 2 quarts; cassia-buds (ground), 4 oz.; bitter-almond meal, 5 oz.; orris-root (sliced), 6 oz. ; powdered cloves, 1 oz.; capsicum. If oz.; good vinegar, 3 gal.; brandy colouring, 3 pints; powdered catechu, 2 lb. ; full flavoured Jamaica rum, 2 gal.; mix in an empty Cognac ‘ piece,’ and macerate for a fortnight, with occasional stirring.—Prod. 106 gal. 21 to 22 u.p. 4. Malt spirit (17 u.p.), 100 gal.; catechu, 2 lb. ; tincture of vanilla, f pint; burnt-sugar colouring, 1 quart; good rum, 3 gal.; acetic or nitric ether, 2 quarts; mix as the last. 5. Clean spirit (17 u.p.), 89 gal.; high-fla- voured cognac, 10 gal.; oil of cassia, 2 dr.; oil of bitter almonds, 3 dr.; powdered catechu 1 lb.; cream of tartar (dissolved). If lb.; Beaifoy’s concentrated acetic acid, f gal.; sugar-colouring, 2 to 3 pints; good rum, 1 gal. When the above mixtures are distilled, the French brandy, colouring, and catechu, should be added to the distilled spirit. 6. To plain spirit (coloured) at 17 u.p., add a little tincture of catechu, and a suflicient quantity of eau-de-vie de marc, or of the oil distilled from wine-lees, to flavour it. Obs. The oil referred to in the last formula is obtained by distillation from the lees of wine, either dried and made up into cakes, or in their wet state, mixed with about 7 or 8 times their weight of water. This oil should be dissolved in alcohol, and kept in this state; as it is otherwise apt to lose its flavour. The spirit produced by this, as well as the other forms above, is better for distillation. The brandy from any part of the world may be very closely imitated, by distilling the oil from the lees of the wines produced in the particular district. A certain writer recommends 1 lb. each of flnely-powdered charcoal and ground rice to he digested in a gal. of plain spirit for a fortnight, to convert it into pale brandy; but we do not see it can effect that object, unless some ‘ flavouring ingredients ’ be sub- sequently added. Where black tea is cheap, as in the United States of America, it is very commonly employed to impart the roughness and flavour of brandy to coloured spirit; but here also the subsequent addition of a little ‘ flavouring ’ improves it. A really good article of cider-spirit thus treated, forms a passable ‘ mock brandy.’ In conclusion, we may re- mark, that as the strength and quality of in-