INK. 780 pliuric acid, or ‘ British guin,^ has been re. commended as a substitute. (M. Merimee.) Indian ink is chiefly employed by artists, but it has been occasionally given as a medicine, dissolved in water or wine, in hfemor- rhages and stomach complaints. Bose. 1 to 2 dr. Lithographic Ink. Prep. 1. Mastic (in tears), 8 oz.; shell-lac, 12 oz.; Venice tur- pentine, 1 oz.; melt together; add, of wax, 1 Ih.; tallow, 6 oz.; when dissolved, further add of hard tallow soap (in shavings), 6 oz.; and when the whole is perfectly combined add of lampblack, 4 oz.; lastly, mix well, cool a little, and then pour it into moulds, or upon a slab, and when cold cut it into square pieces. 2. (Lasteyrie.) Bry tallow soap, mastic (in tears), and common soda (in flne powder), of each, 30 parts; shell-lac, 150 parts; lamp- black, 12 parts; mix as last. Both the above are used for writing on lithographic stones. 3. (AUToaEAPHic.)—a. Take of white wax, 8 oz., and white soap, 2 to 3 oz.; melt, and when well combined, add of lampblack, 1 oz.; mix well, heat it strongly, and then add of shell-lac, 2 oz.; again heat it strongly, stir well together, cool a little, and pour it out as before. With this ink lines may be drawn of the finest to the fullest class, without danger of its spreading, and the copy may be kept for years before being transferred. b. From white soap and white wax, of each, 10 oz.; mutton suet, 3 oz.; shell-lac and mastic, of each, 5 oz.; lampblack, 3^ oz.; mix as above. Both the above are used for writing on lithographic paper. When the last is em- ployed, the transfer must be made within a week. Obs. The above inks are rubbed down with a little water in a small cup or saucer for use, in the same way as common water-colour cakes or Indian ink. In winter the operation should be performed near the fire, or the saucer should be placed over a basin contain- ing a little tepid water. Either a steel pen or a camel-hair pencil may be employed with the ink. See Lithogeaphy. Marking Ink. Syn. Indelible ink, Pee- MANENT I. Of this there are several varieties, of which the following are the most valuable and commonly used :— 1. Nitrate of silver, i oz.; hot distilled water, 7 fl. dr.; dissolve, add of mucilage, i oz. ; previously rubbed with sap green or syrup of buckthorn, q. s. to colour. The linen must bo first moistened with ' liquid pounce,’ or ‘ the preparation,’ as it is commonly called, and when it has again become dry, written on witli a clean quill pen. This ink will bear dilation if the writing is not required very black. The ‘ POUNCE ’ or ‘ peepaeation.^ A so- lution of carbonate of soda, 1^ oz.; in water, 1 pint, slightly coloured with a little sap green or syrup of buckthorn, to enable the spots wetted with it to be afterwards known. 2. (‘Without peepaeation.") Take of ni- trate of silver, i oz.; water, f oz. ; dissolve, add as much of the strongest liquor of am- monia as will dissolve the precipitate formed on its fii’st addition, then farther add of mu- cilage, 1^ dr., and a little sap green, syrup of buckthorn, or finely powdered indigo, to colour. Writing executed with this ink turns black on being passed over a hot Italian iron, or held near the fire. 3. Terchloride of gold, 1^ dr.; water, 7 fl. dr.; mucilage, 2 dr.; sap green, q. s. to colour. To be written with on a ground pre- pared with a weak solution of protochloride of tin, and dried. Dark purple. 4. (Eev. J. B. Reade.) Nitrate of silver, 1 oz., tartaric acid (pure), 3 dr., are tritu- rated together in a mortar, in the dry state; a little water is then added, by which crystals of tartrate of silver ai-e formed, and the nitric acid set free; the latter is then saturated with liquor of ammonia, sufficient being added to dissolve all the newly formed tartrate of silver, avoiding unnecessary excess; lastly, a little gum and colouring matter is added. 5. (Rev. J. B. Reade.) To the last is added an ammoniacal solution of a salt of gold. Mr. Reade has used for this purpose the '‘purple of Cassius’ the hyposulphate, the ammonio-iodide, the ammonio-periodide of gold, but any other compound of gold which is soluble in ammonia will do as well. This ink is unacted on by nearly all those reagents which remove waiting executed with solutions of the salts of silver alone, ascyanide of potassium, the chlorides of lime and soda, &c. 6. (Redwood.) Nitrate of silver and pure bitartrate of pot assa, of each, 1 oz. (or 4 parts), are rubbed together in a glass or wedgewood- ware mortar, and after a short time liquor of ammonia, 4 oz. (16 parts, or q. s.), is added; when the solution is complete, archil, 4 dr. (or 2 parts); white sugar, 6 dr. (or 3 parts); and powdered gum, 10 dr. (or 5 parts), are dissolved in the liquor, after which sufficient water is added to make the whole measure exactly 6 fl. oz., when it is ready to be bottled for use. The last three are used in the same manner as No. 2. 7. (Dr. Smellie.) From sulphate of iron, 1 dr.; vermilion, 4 dr.; boiled linseed oil, 1 oz.; triturated together until perfectly smooth. Used with type. 8. (Soubeiran.) Nitrate of copper, 3 parts; carbonate of soda, 4 parts; nitrate of silver, 8 parts; mix, and dissolve in liquor of am- monia, 100 parts. Used like No. 2. 9. (Ure.) A strong solution of chloride of platinum, with a little potassa, and sugar and gum, to thicken. 10. The fiuid contained between the kernel and shell of the cashew nut. On linen and cotton it turns gradually black, and is very durable. This has been called ‘anacaediuh ’ or ‘ CASHEW-NUT INK.’ 11. Sulphate of manganese,'2> parts; lamp- black, 1 part; sugar, 4 parts; all in fine