ANTIMONY. 187 I Fr. An old preparation with nmnerons I synonyines, of which the first two of the i above are those which are now chiefly in use. Prep. 1. Sulphurcf of antimony, 1 part; nitre, 3 parts; powder, mix, and deflagrate by spoonfuls in a red-hot crucible, then calcine for half an hour, and when cold powder the ! residuum. I 2. Washed diaphoeetic a., W. calx oe A.; Antimonium diaphoeeticum lo'tum, a. ! D. AELU'TUM (Ph. Bor. 1847), A. calcina'tem ' (Ph. L. 1788); Axtimoine diaphoeetique : LATE, &c., Fr.:—a. (Ph. L. 1788.) As the last, but the powder is subsequently deprived of soluble matter by repeated ‘ washings" with I }vater, after which it is collected and dried. h. (Ph. Bor. 1847.) Metallic antimony, 1 I part; nitre, 2 parts; as above, but drying the I washed powder at a heat not exceeding 104° I Fahr. Prop., 8fc. A white or grayish-white powder, without either smell or taste; gently diapho- retic and laxative; its activity greatly de- pending on the quantity of acid in the stomach. —Pose. 1 to 6 gr., or even 10 gr.; for horses, , 1 to 3 or 4 dr. It was formerly in high repute; but is now almost superseded by the I present pharmacopceial preparations. I Obs. According to IBerzelius, washed dia- I phoretic antimony (or that used in medicine) ' consists chiefly of antimoniate of potassa. It j also contains some antimonious acid, and, when carelessly prepared, a little undecom- I posed sulphuret. The ‘ flowers ’ which collect I on the sides of the crucible inust be carefully i rejected, as they are powerfully emetic. The water used for the ‘ washings ^ yields a pre- cipitate of ANTIMOXIC ACID on the addition of sulphuric acid. This, after being well- I washed with water, was formerly called Ma"- GISTEEY OF DIAPHOEETIC ANTIMONY (maj'-), 1 Mate"eia PEELA'TA, &C. j Diaphoretic Antimony (Mar'tial). Syn. An- [ TlMO''NniM diaphoeet'icum maetia'le, An- ticachec'ticum LuDOTi'cif, L. From iron I filings and sulphuret of antimony, equal parts; I fused together; the product being powdered, i mixed with 3 times its weight of nitre, and de- i flagrated, by spoonfuls, in a red-hot crucible ; I the cooled mass, after being powdered, is i washed with water, and the precipitate col- I lected and dried. A yellowish-brown powder, I formerly much esteemed as a diaphoretic I tonic; now disused.—Pose. 5 to 20 gr. E'thiops of Antimony. Sxjn. ^'thiops an- j timonia'lis, L. Prep. 1. From quicksilver, j 1 part; sulphuret of antimony, 2 parts; tri- I turated together until the globules of the 1 former entirely disappear. — 2. Sulphuret of \ antimony, 3 parts; black sulphuret of mer- i cury, 2 parts; triturated together for some I time. An old remedy in certain skin dis- ! eases, still highly esteemed by some provincial ¥ j practitioners.—Pose. 3 to 5 gr., gradually in- ! creased to 20 or 30 gr. Flow'ers of Antimony. Syn. Flo"kes an- timo"nii, L. ; Fletjes d’antimoine, Fr. Prep. Throw powdered sulphuret of antimony, by spoonfuls at a time, into an ignited tubu- lated retort with a short and very wide neck, until as many ‘flo-wers’ collect in the receiver as are required. An impure oocysulphuret of antimony, with variable portions of teroxide, and undecomposed tersulphuret. Emetic in doses of 1 to 3 gr. Flowers of Antimony (Ar'gentine). [-m.] Syn. White ox'ide of antimony. Snow of A.f; Antimo"nii flo"ees aeoenti'ni, a. Nixf, L.; Fleues aegentine d’antimoine, Oxyde BLANC d’antimoine, Fr. Prep. Melt metallic antimony in a vessel freely exposed to the air, and furnished with a cool place for the ‘ flowers ’ to rest on, and collect them as deposited; or, and what is better, heat the metal to a fall red or white heat in a covered crucible, and then suddenly expose it to the air, when it will inflame, and the oxidised vapour condense as ‘flowers’ on any cool surface (as a partially inverted wide- mouthed flask) held at a little distance over it. The product is teeoxide of antimony in a crystalline form, and received the name of argentine flowers from its silvery whiteness and beauty. Flowers of Antimony (Helmont’s). Syn. Flo"ees antimo"nii Helmon'tii. An old pre- paration formed by dissolving sulphuret of antimony in aqua regia, expelling the free water and acid by heat, and subliming the residuum with an equal weight of sal ammoniac. Violently emetic, even in small doses, and unfit for internal use. Flowers of Antimony (Red). Syn. Flo"ees antimo"nii Er'BEi, L. From sulphuret of antimony, and sal ammoniac, both in fine powder, mixed and sublimed together. Re- sembles the last. Ful'minating Antimony. See Fulminating Compounds. Glass of Antimony. Syn. Vit'jiified anti- mony'*, V. ox'ide of a.*, Geay o. of a.* ; Antimo"nii vit'eum, Antimo"nium yitei- fica'tum, a. viteifac'tum (Ph. L. 1788), Ox'YDUM ANTIMONII YJTEIFICATUM, 0. A. CUM sul'phuee v.f, Antimonium oxyda'tum GEi'sEUM (Ph. Suec. 1845), &c., L.; Yeeee d’antimoine, Oxysulfuee d’antimoine si- licate, Fr. Prep. (Ph. L. 1788.) Roast sulphuret of antimony in a shallow earthen vessel, over a moderate fire, stirring it con- stantly with an iron-rod, until it turns whitish- gray and ceases to emit fumes at a red heat; put the ‘residuum’ into a covered crucible which it shall only two-thirds fill, and expose it to an intense heat (gradually raised), until it fuses, then pour it out on an iron-plate. If calcined too much, a little more crude antimony may be added to make it run well. Comp., prop., 4"c. A crude sulphurated ter- oxide of antimony {pxysulphuret—Liebig contaminated with a little silica and iron.