1311 VESICATION—VESICATORIN. oily boiling water, &c.; the first only of which is now in common use in England. “It is a principle sufficiently established with regard to the living system, that, where a morbid action exists, it may often he re- moved by inducing an action of a diflPerent kind, in the same or a neighbouring part. On this principle is explained the utility of blis- ters in local inflammation and spasmodic action, and it regulates their application in pneu- monia, gastritis, hepatitis, phrenitis, angina, rheumatism, colic, and spasmodic affections of the stomach; diseases in which they are em- ployed with the most marked advantage. A similar principle exists with respect to pain; exciting one pain often relieves another. Hence blisters often give relief in toothache, and some other painful affections. Lastly, blisters, by their operation, communicate a stimulus to the whole system, and raise the vigour of the circulation. Hence, in part, their utility in fevers of the typhoid kind, though in such cases they are used with still more advantage to obviate or remove local in- flammation.” (‘ Med. Lex.’) Blisters are commonly prepared with can- tharides plaster, or with some other prepara- tion of cantharides; and, in the former case, are usually lightly covered with the powdered fly. In order to prevent the action of the can- tharides upon the mucous membrane of the bladder, blistering plasters are often sprinkled with a \\it\e powdered camphor, or, better still, are moistened with camphorated ether, which leaves a thin layer of camphor. In all these cases the layer should not be too thick, for in that case the plaster would not take effect. When it is not wished to maintain a dis- charge from the blistered part, it is sufficient to make a puncture in the vesicle, to let out the fluid; but when the case requires the blister to be ^Jcept open/ as it is called, the whole of the detached cuticle is carefully re- moved with a pair of scissors, and the part is dressed with either the ointment of cantharides or of savine, at first, more or less diluted with lard or simple ointment, with an occasional dressing of resin cerate. According to Mr. Crowther, the blistered surface is best kept clean by daily fomentation with warm water. Of late years, to obviate the unpleasant effects occasionally arising from the common blister, various compounds having cantharides for their base have been brought before the public. Of these, the vesicating collodion noticed at page 468 is the most convenient and effective. The following also deserve notice:— 1. Take of cantharides, in fine powder, 2 parts; spermaceti, 2 parts; olive oil, 4 parts; white wax, 8 parts; water, 10 parts; simmer, with constant agitation, for 2 hours, strain through flannel, separate the plaster from the water, gently remelt it with common turpen- tine, 1 part, and spread the mass whilst still fluid. This nearly resembles the form recom- mended by MM. Henry and Guibourt. 2. (P. Cod.) Distil off the ether from a concentrated ethereal tincture of cantharides, melt the oily residue with twice its weight of white wax, and spread the mixture on thin oiled silk, or on cloth prepared with wax plaster. 3. (Oettinger.) Cantharidal ether (pre- pared from cantharides, 1 part; ether, 2 parts) and sulphuric ether, of each, 10 dr.; turpen- tine and black resin, of each, 2| dr.; mix, dis- solve, and apply it to the surface of stretched silk or taffeta which has been previously pre- pared with two coatings of a solution of isin- glass. Obs. The above compounds are spread on leather, linen, paper, silk, oiled silk, taffeta, &c., and then form the numerous compounds vended under the names of—blistering tis- sue, CHARTA EPISPASTICA, RANNUS VESICA- TORIUS, PAPIER EPISPASTIQUE, SPARADRAPUM VESICATORIUM, TAFFETAS YESICANS, TELA YESICATORIA, &C. Acetic extract of cantharides, croton oil, or extract of mezereon, is sometimes substituted for the ethereal extract ordered in the above formulae. The ‘PAPIER EPISPASTIQUE’ of Vee is pre- pared of three strengths, which are respec- tively distinguished by the colours white, green, and red. The composition is made by boiling powdered cantharides for an hour with water, lard, and green ointment, or with lard coloured with alkanet root, adding white wax to the strained fats, and spreading the mix- ture whilst fluid :—No. 1 is made with 10 oz. of cantharides to 4 lb. of lard; No. 2, of 1 lb. of cantharides to 8 lb. of green ointment / and No. 3, of 1^ lb. of flies to 8 lb. of reddened lard. To each are added 2 lb. of white wax. (Dorvault.) The MAGISTRAL BLISTER of Valleix is a revival of the vesicating epithem noticed at page 567. See Blister, Cantharides, Col- lodion, &c., and below. VESICA'TION. The formation of a blister is a vital process, and its success may be taken as a proof of the presence of life. Hence, a French physician. Dr. Mandl, has suggested such a stimulation of the skin as would or- dinarily cause a blister as a test of life, iu those cases of long-continued trance which we occasionally hear of, where all the functions of life seem to be extinct. Dr. Mandl’s plan is to apply a stick of lunar caustic. The appli- cation of a little strong vinegar of cantharides, or other cantharidal blister, of the size of a six- penny piece, or of two or three spoonfuls of boiling water by means of a bent tube of like diameter, is, however, more certain and satis- factory. VESICATORIN. Syn. Canthar'idin, Can- THARIDINA, Cantharides-camphor. The blistering principle of Spanish flies, discovered by M. Robiquet.