485 CORROSIVE SUBLIMATE—COSMETICS. be touched over with a little lunar caustic, or nitric acid, or a little concentrated acetic acid or aromatic vineyar. The last two do not stain the skin. The first is used by merely rubbing it on the corns, previously slightly moistened with water; the others, by moisten- ing the corns with them, by means of a small strip of wood, or, preferably, a rod of glass; due care being taken not to allow the liquid to touch the neighbouring parts. This treat- ment, adopted every 3 or 4 days for 10 days or a fortnight, a(;companied by the use of soft, loose shoes, will generally effect a cure. It has been recommended to remove large corns by ligatures of silk, applied as close to their base as poss'ble, and tightened daily until they drop off; but this plan is tedious, and often inconvenient, and is not always sue- cessful. Another mode of extirpation is, the application of a small blister, which will fre- quently raise them with the skin out of their beds. In this case the exposed surface must be dressed with a little simple ointment. Soft CORNS may be removed by applying ivy leaf, previously soaked in strong vinegar, changing the piece every morning; or by placing a dressing of soap cerate, spread on a bit of lint or old rag, between the toes. One of the simplest and best remedies for hard corns, and which has received the sanction of high medi- cal authority, is to wear upon the toe or part affected a smalt, circular piece of soft, leather, or, still better, a piece of amadou, spread with diachylon, or some other emollient plaster, and having a hole cut in the centre, corresponding to the size of the corn. (Sir B. Brodie.) By this means the pressure of the boot or shoe is equalised, and the apex of the corn protected from injury. The following are among the most useful of the popular remedies for CORNS ;— Caus'tic for Corns. 'Prep. From tincture of iodine and chloride of antimony, of each, 1 dr.; iodide of iron, 3 gr.; mix. It is applied with a camel-hair brush, after paring the corn. 2 to 4 applications are said to effect a cure. Obs. Most of the remedies noticed below reall)' act as caustics. Lo tion for Corns. Prep. 1. A solution of sal ammoniac, 1 part; in proof spirit, 4 parts. 2. A concentrated aqueous solution of sul- phate of copper. To be applied night and morning. Corn Plasters. Prep. 1. From white dia- chylon, 3 parts; yellow resin, 2 parts; verdi- gris, 1 part; melted together, and spread on leather. 2. From yalbanum plaster, 1 oz.; verdigris, 1 dr.; as the last. 3. From resin plaster, 2 oz.; black pitch, 1 oz.; verdigris and sal ammoniac, of each, i dr. 4. To the last add powdered opium, 1 dr. Recommended to allay pain, &c. 5. (W. Cooley.) A piece of spread adhesive plaster is placed upon a table, and a piece of card paper having a round hole cut in it the size of the central portion of the corn is laid upon it; the exposed part is then softened by holding a piece of heated iron for a second or two near it; the card paper is then instantly removed, and nitrate of silver, in fine powder, is sprinkled over the part which has been warmed. As soon as the whole is cold, the loose powder is shaken off, and the plaster is ready for use. Very cleanly and convenient. Two or three applications seldom fail to effect a cure. 6. (Mechanical Corn Plasters.) From common adhesive plaster spread on buckskin, amadou, or vulcanized India rubber, cut into pieces, and a circular hole corresponding to the size of the corn punched in each. Pommade' for Corns. Prep. 1. Powdered verdigris, 1 dr.; savine-ointment, 7 dr. 2. Dried carbonate of soda, 3 dr.; lard, 5 dr.; verdigris or smalts, q. s. to give a slight tinge of green or blue. Applied on a piece of rag. Corn Solvent. Prep. 1. Carbonate of po~ tassa or pearlash, contained in an open jar or bottle, set in a damp place, until it deliquesces into an oil-like liquid {pit of tartar). Applied by means of a feather, or a small piece of rag dipped in it is bound on the corn. 2. Hydrate of potassa, 1 dr.; rectified spirit, 1 oz.; dissolve. As No. 1. 3. Carbonate of potassa, with smalts, ochre, or bole, q. s. to give it the required colour. It must be kept dry, in a well-corked bottle. A pinch is placed on the corn, and confined by means of adhesive plaster or rag. 4. Carbonate of soda, 1 oz., finely powdered, and mixed with lard, ^ oz. Applied on linen rag every night. 5. (Sir H. Davy’s.) Carbonate of potassa, 2 parts; salt of sorrel, 1 part; each in fine powder; mix, and place a small quantity on the corn for four or five successive nights, binding it on with a rag. Obs. Care must be taken, in all cases, to pare the corn moderately close before applying the remedy; but in no case should any of the above be applied to a raw surface. CORRO'SIVE SUBLIMATE. See Mercury. CORUN'DUM. See Emery. COSMETICS. Syn. Cosmet'ica, L.; Cos- METIQUES, Fr. External applications em- ployed for the purpose of preserving or re- storing personal beauty. The term is generally understood to refer to substances applied to the cuticle, to improve the colour and clear- ness of the complexion; but some writers have included under this head every topical appli- cation used with the like intention. Hence cosmetics may be divided into—cutaneous COSMETICS, or those applied to the skin; hair COSMETICS, or such as are employed to promote the growth and beauty of the hair; and TEETH COSMETICS, or such as are used to cleanse and beautify the ‘teeth. See Bald- ness, CosMETiQUE, Dentifrice, Depila-