PURGATIVES—PURPLE DYE. 1148 yellow peel of 3 lemons; juice of 9 lemons; arrack, 1 pint; port or sherry (hot), 1 gall.; cinnamon, \ oz.; nutmeg, 1 dr.; mix. 12. (Yankee punch.) Macerate sliced pineapple, 3 oz.; vanilla, 6 gr.; and ambergris (rubbed with a little sugar), 1 gr., in the strongest pale brandy, 1 pint, for a few hours, with frequent agitation; then strain with ex- pression; add, of lemon juice, 1 pint; lemon syrup, and either claret or port wine, of each, 1 bottle; with sugar, ^ lb., dissolved in boiling water, pint. See Shetjb. PURG'ATIVES. Syn. Dejectoeia, Pue- GANTiA, PuEGATiVA, L. These have been divided into five orders or classes, according to their particular actions. The following are the principal of each class:— 1. (Laxatives, lenitives, or mild cathae- TICS.) Manna, cassia pulp, tamarinds, prunes, honey, phosphate of soda; castor, almond, and olive oils; ripe fruit. 2. (Saline or cooling laxatives.) Epsom salt, Glauber’s salt, phosphate of soda (tasteless salt), seidlitz powders, &c. 3. (Active cathaetics, occasionally aceid, frequently tonic and stomachic.) Rhubarb, senna, aloes, &c. 4. (Deastic or violent cathaetics.) Jalap, scammony, gamboge, croton oil, colocynth, elaterium, &c. 5. (Meecueialpciegatives.) Calomel,blue- pill, quicksilver with chalk, &c. In prescribing purgatives, regard should be had to the particular portion of the alimentary canal on which we desire more immediately to act, as well as to the manner in which the medicine elFects its purpose. Thus, Epsom salt, sulphate of potassa, and rhubarb, act chiefly on the duodenum ; aloes, on the rectum ; blue pill, calomel, and jalap, on the larger in- testines generally; and tartrate and bitartrate of potassa, and sulphur, on the whole length of the intestinal canal. Again, others are stimu- lant, as aloes, croton oil, jalap, scammony, &c.; others are refrigerant, as most of the saline aperients; magnesia and its carbonate are both aperient and antacid; whilst another class, including rhubarb, damask roses, &c., are astringent. Further, some produce only serous or watery dejections, without greatly increasing the peristaltic action of the bowels; whilst a few occasion a copious discharge of the faeces in an apparently natural form. See Deaught, Mixtuee, Pills, Peesceibing, &c. PURL. Prep. To ale or beer, ^ pint, gently warmed, add of bitters, 1 wine-glassful, or q. s. Some add a little spirit. A favourite beverage with bard drinkers early in tbe morning. PUR'PLE. A rich compound colour, pro- duced by the admixture of pure blue and pure red. This colour has always been the distin- guishing badge of royalty and distinction. The celebrated Tyeian pueple was produced from a shell-fish called murex. AnTline Purple. Syn. Peezin's puepi Mauve. This valuable dye-stulf is prepar under W. H. Perkin’s patent, by mixing f, lutions of sulphate of aniline and bichromate potassa in equivalent proportions, and, aft! some hours, washing the black precipitate wi. water, drying it, digesting it repeatedly coal-tar naphtha, and, finally, dissolving it boiling alcohol. It may be further purified evaporating the alcoholic solution to dryne dissolving the residue in a large quantity boiling water, reprecipitating by caustic so( washing with water, dissolving in alcohol, 1, tering, and evaporating to dryness. Thus pu fied, mauve forms a brittle substance, having bronze-coloured surface. It imparts a de purple colour to cold water, though dissolvi sparingly in that liquid; it is more solul in hot water, and very soluble in alcohol. S Pueple Dye {below). Purple of Cassius. Syn. Pueple peecii TATE OF Cassius, Gold pueple, Gold pe PAEED WITH TIN ; AUEUM STANNO PAEATU PuEPUEA MiNEEALis Cassii, L. Prep. Crystallized protochloride of tin, 1 part; cri tallized perchloride of tin, 2 parts; dissol each separately, mix the solutions, and add crystallized ter chloride of gold (in solutioi 1 part; carefully wash, and dry the precipita Very fine. 2. (Frick.) Dissolve pure grain tin in a dilute aqua regia, until the fluid becomes faint opalescent, then take the metal out and weij it; next, dilute the solution largely wi water, and add, simultaneously, a dih solution of gold and dilute sulphuric acid such proportion that the tin in the one shi,- be to the gold in the other in the ratio of to 36. 3. (P. Cod.) Terchloride of gold, 1 part, dissolved in distilled water, 200 parts; amtl solution is made by dissolving, in the co pure tin, 1 part, in a mixture of nitric ac 1 part, and hydrochloric acid, 2 parts; tl last solution is diluted with distilled wat 100 parts, and is then added to the soh(\ of terchloride of gold until precipitati ceases to take place; the powder is, last washed by decantation, and dried by a ve gentle heat. 4. Silver, 150 parts; gold, 20 parts; pi grain tin, 35 parts ; fuse them together unc charcoal and borax, cool, laminate, and disso) out the silver with nitric acid. Obs. Purple of Cassius is generally suppos to be a combination of oxide of gold and s quioxide of tin, in which the latter acts as acid. Heat resolves it into a mixture metallic gold and binoxide of tin. It is u>\ as a purple in porcelain painting, and to co, municate a ruby red colour to glass, wli melted in open vessels. PURPLE DYE. The purples now in vog| are the numerous shades of ‘mauve’ aj ‘magenta’ obtained by the ‘aniline colour' (See above, also Red.) For silk and wooLi