923 MORDANT. I MOR'DANT. In dyeing and calico printing, \ any substance employed to fix the colouring I matter of dye-stuffs in the fibres of organic 1 bodies, and to give it brilliancy and perma- nency. This it effects either by serving as a I bond of union between the two, owing to its I attraction for each of them j or it acts by I uniting with the colouring particles in the ! minute pores of the fibres, and rendering them I insoluble in the alkaline, soapy, and other j liquids, to the action of which they will sub- I sequently be exposed. When an infusion of ! some dye-stuff, as cochineal or madder, for ex- ample, is mixed with alum or acetate of alu- \ mina, and a little alkali, a precipitate imme- diately forms, consisting of alumina in com- bination with colouring matter, constituting a I LAKE. It is by a similar reaction occurring within the fibres that the permanent dyeing of the cloth is effected. Here the colouring mat- ter of the dyeing materials not only passes from the soluble to the insoluble form, but it I enters into chemical combination with other substances, and in the new compounds it as- sumes greater brilliancy and permanency than it previously possessed. Annotta and safflower afford instances of the second mode of action i above referred to, by which substances operate j as mordants. The colouring matter of these I dye-stuffs is soluble in alkaline lyes, and into a I solution of this kind the cloth is dipped. It I has now received an extremely fugitive colour i only; but by passing it through acidulated I water the alkaline solvent is abstracted, and the tinctorial matter is precipitated in an in- soluble and minutely divided state within its pores, and it becomes permanently dyed. A similar reaction takes place in dyeing with the I ‘ indigo vat,’ in which atmospheric oxygen per- forms the part of a mordant. It is believed I that even in these cases the colouring prin- j ciple, during its transition from the liquid to I the solid form, enters into combination with I the fibres of the organic substance, and that, I in proportion to the affinity existing between I the two, is the integrity and excellence of the I dye. In wool and silk, the affinity between [ their filaments and the tinctorial particles of I the dye-bath is, in general, so considerable, i that a permanent stain is very easily commu- I uicated to them ; but with cotton waAflax, the I materials of which calico and linen goods are j made, the reverse is the case, and the inter- ! vention of a third material, in the shape of a I mordant, is absolutely necessary to dye them of a permanent colour. I “ Experience has proved, that of all the 1 bases, those which succeed best as mordants I are alumina, tin, and oxide of iron; the first I two of which, being naturally white, are the i only ones which can be employed for preserv- ing to the colour its original tint, at least i without much variation. But whenever the j mordant itself is coloured, it will cause the dye I to take a compound colour quite different from its own. If, as is usually said, the mordant enters into a real chemical union with the stuff to be dyed, the application of the mordant should obviously be made in such circum- stances as are knowm to be most favourable to the combination taking place; and this is the principle of every day’s practice in the dye-house. “In order that a combination may result between two bodies, they must not only be in contact, but they must be reduced to their ultimate molecules. The mordants to be united with stuffs are, as we have seen, insoluble in themselves, for which reason their particles must be divided by solution in an appropriate vehicle. Now, this solvent or menstruum will exert in its own favour an affinity for the mor- dant, which will prove to that extent an ob- stacle to its attraction for the stuff. Hence we must select such solvents as have a weaker affinity for the mordants than the mordants have for the stuffs. Of all acids which can be employed to dissolve alumina, for example, vinegar (acetic acid) is the one which will re- tain it with the least energy, for which reason the acetate of alumina is now generally sub- stituted for alum, because the acetic acid gives up the alumina with such readiness, that mere elevation of temperature is sufficient to effect the separation of these two substances. Be- fore the substitution of the acetate, alum alone was employed; but without knowing the true reason, all the French dyers preferred the alum of Rome, simply regarding it to be the purest; it is only within these few years that they have understood the real grounds of this preference. “ The two principal conditions, namely, ex- treme tenuity of particles and liberty of ac- tion, being found in a mordant, its operation is certain. But as the combination to be ef- fected is merely the result of the play of affinity between the solvent and the stuff to be dyed, a sort of partition must take place, proportioned to the mass of the solvent, as well as to its attractive force. Hence the stuff will retain more of the mordant when its solu- tion is more concentrated, that is, when the base diffused through it is not so much pro- tected by a large mass of menstruum; a fact ai)plied to very valuable uses by the practical man. On impregnating, in calico printing, for example, different spots of the same web with the same mordant in different degrees of concentration, there is obtained in tbe dye- bath a depth of colour upon these spots in- tense in proportion to the strength of their various mordants. Thus, with solution of acetate of alumina in different grades of den- sity, and with madder, every shade can be pro- duced from the fullest red to the lightest pink ; and with acetate of iron and madder, every shade from black to pale violet.” (Ure.) In the employment of mordants in the ordi- nary processes of dyeing, the goods are passed through the solution for a period varying, under different circumstances, according to the 1