4-60 COCINIC ACID—COCOA. prepare lake and carmine, and in dyeing. Its colouring principle is freely soluble in water. It imparts every variety of scarlet and crimson to textile fabrics previously prepared with alum, tin, and other mordants. It is also used to colour liqueurs, tinctures, and confectionery. It has been recommended as an antispasmodic and anodyne, in hooping cough and neuralgia. Dose. 10 to 60 gr., in powder, confection, or tincture. See Caemine and Caeminic Acid. COCINIC ACID. Syn. Cocosteae'ic acid. A crystalline, fatty acid, obtamed by the saponification of cocoa-nut oil. See Steaeic Acid. CO'COA (ko'-ko). Syn. Caca'o. An ali- mentary substance formed of the roasted seeds of the Theohroma Cacao, a tree belong- ing to the natural order Byttneriacece. This definition is equally applicable to chocolate, but we commonly class the preparations con- taining sugar and flavouring substances under that head, and the unsweetened and cheap preparations under cocoa. The cocoa-seed or berry must not be confounded with the cocoa- nut, which is the fruit of a palm (Cocos nu- cifera). The cocoa-tree is a native of Mexico, and is now more or less extensively grown throughout central America, Brazil, Peru, Venezuela, Caraccas, Ecuador, Grenada, De- merara, Essequibo, Guayaquil, and Surinam; with some of the West India Islands, foremost among which stands Trinidad. It has also been introduced with more or less success into Africa, the Mauritius, Madagascar, Bourbon, the East Indies, Australia, and the Phillippine Islands. The following is a list of the piln- cipal kinds of cocoa, in the order of their com- mercial value :—Caraccas, Surinam, Trinidad, Grenada, Jamaica, Dominica, Guayaquil, Ve- nezuela, Bahia, Brazil, St. Lucia. It seems probable that some of the highest kinds of cocoa do not find their way into this country, but are consumed by the inhabitants of Spain. Prep. The pods containing the seeds are gathered when ripe, and after having lain for a day and a night are opened, and the seeds, which are taken out by hand, are submitted to what is termed the sweating process. They are first placed on a sloping floor or in baskets, so that the chief part of the pulp in which they are enveloped may drain off, and are then shut up in a close box, and left for 21 to 48 hours, according to the season and weather, after which they are turned out in the sun to dry. Upon a nice performance of the sweating process, which may be likened to malting, the value of the cocoa greatly depends. When quite dry, the seeds are packed in barrels or bags, and are ready for shipment. The process of roasting is effected in a metal cylinder, with holes at each end, through which the vapour generated is allowed to escape. When the aroma is sufficiently developed, the seeds are cooled, and then passed to a ‘kibling mill,’ which removes the husks and skins from the ‘ nibs’ (see below). Prop., Constituents, 8fc. Cocoa, when una- dulterated, forms a wholesome and highly nu- ' tritious beverage. Its active principle is theobromine, an alkaloid greatly resembling caffeine, the active principle of coffee and tea. A peculiar concrete oil, called cocoa- BUTTEE, or, more correctly, buttee of cacao, is another important constituent, forming more than half the weight of the seed. The pre- sence of about 20g of albumen gives to cocoa : its nutritive character. Adult. Much of the cheap stuff sold as ‘genuine cocoa’ is shamefully adulterated. ■ Out of 68 samples of cocoa and chocolate examined by the Lancet commission, 39 con- tained coloured earthy substances, as reddle, Venetian red, umber, &c. To some, chalk or plaster of Paris had been added, for the pur- pose of increasing the weight. Many of the samples consisted of sugar and starch, with only sufficient cocoa to impart a flavour. Cocoas containing a moderate amount of ar- rowroot or other starch must not be consi- dered adulterated articles, for it is impossible to render cocoa soluble, or rather emulsive, without the addition of some diffusible substance. ; Cocoa Nibs. The bruised, roasted seeds, freed from husk and membrane. They ought to be of a dull-red or grayish colour, but are fre- quently given a bright-red colour by a coating of Venetian red. Flake Cocoa. This is formed by grinding i the nibs in a mill, consisting of two cones, i working one inside the other. Pure flake cocoa is not a diluted or amalgamated article; in other words, it contains no starch or sugar. Sol'uble Cocoa. From cocoa nibs and sub- stances which are readily soluble or diffusible / in water, ground together. Sugar and arrow- root are the diluents used by respectable makers, but potato starch is used for the trashy articles which are offered to the poor. No form of cocoa is really soluble, but by the addition of easily diffusible substances an ar- ticle is produced which is capable of forming an emulsion with boiling water. The follovving are the principal varieties of the so-called soluble cocoa:— 1. Geanulated Cocoa. From cocoa nibs and sufficient sugar and arrowroot to keep the fatty particles from forming a pasty mass. As it is impossible to granulate the nibs without the admixture of some other substance, those makers who declare that their granulated cocoas are “ perfectly pure” do not act honestly towards their customers. 2. lioMGEOPATHic CocoA. A kind of solu- ble cocoa prepared with arrowroot, but with- out sugar. 3. Iceland-MOSS Cocoa. From cocoa and Iceland moss freed from its bitter principle, cetrarine. This form of cocoa was introduced by Messrs. Dunn and Hewett, and is said