343 BOOTS AND SHOES—BOOT POWDER. rubbed smooth with a folding-stick, and other- wise adjusted ; after which it is placed in some suitable situation, at a distance from a fire, to dry. Rough calf requires to be damped on the grain side with a sponge and water before pasting and covering. Russia-leather is well soaked in water for an hour, taken out, beaten, and rubbed; after •, which the paste is well worked into the flesh ( side before covering. Morocco is first ‘ grained’ by rubbing it on , a board, with the grain-side inside, and, after being pasted, left to soak for about a quarter I of an hour; after which it is drawn on with a * piece of woollen cloth, to preserve the grain. Roan is either soaked in water, or left to )i soak when pasted. ^ School-binding. Originally applied to school-books strongly sewn and ‘ done up’ in sheep-skin, which was either left of a plain brown, or sprinkled or marbled with copperas- water. Similar works of a cheaper class, are now often ‘ done up’ in canvas, brown-holland, and even coarse and strong coloured glazed- calico. Concluding Remarks. Numerous patents for improvements in binding books, several of which possess very great merit and usefulness, have been obtained during the last 30 years. Among these, one known as ‘ Hancock’s Patent I Binding,’ from its extreme novelty, simplicity, durability, and inexpensiveness, deserves a passing notice here. By Mr, Win. Hancock’s method the sheets are folded in ‘ double leaves,’ and being properly placed together and adjusted (by setting them vertically, with the edges forming the back of the book down- wards, in a concave mould so formed that whilst giving shape it may leave the whole breadth, ' and nearly the whole length exposed), and i' firmly secured by a few turns of packthread, i; the book is subjected to the action of a press, I and a strong and quick-drying solution of Indian rubber smeared over the back with the finger, wlien the whole is left for 3 or 4 hours, or longer, to dry. The operation is repeated, as often as necessary, after which flllets of cloth are cemented on with the same varnish, and the book is ready to have the boards attached. The sheets of books that cannot be folded in ‘ double leges’ may be strongly stitched through, separately, before adjusting them in the mould. In this way, several of the usual operations of binding are dispensed with. We most willingly bear testimony to the strength and durability of this method, as well as to the great convenience it affords in allowing the l)ooks to open perfectly flat upon a table, or to be distorted in any possible manner, without injury to their backs. It is, undoubtedly, tbe best way of binding books for travellers. The Editor of this work, once had a large trunk of books, among which was a massive volume bound on Hancock’s plan. All the rest were nearly torn to pieces by a fctv months’ journey. but this one remained uninjured even after flve years, during which time it accompanied him in his travels, extending, collectively, to upwards of 23,000 miles. See Gilding, Maebling, Speinkles, Stains, &c. BOOTS and SHOES. The cleaning of boots and shoes forms no unimportant part of the domestic duties of a large establishment; as on it being properly performed depend both their appearance and durability. A votary of St. Crispin, in whom we place considerable reliance, assures us, that to effect this object in the ‘ best style,’ all that is necessary is to employ very little blacking (merely enough to moisten the surface of the leather), and to brush it off whilst still damp. Never make the surface wet, nor allow the blacking to dry before applying the polishing brush. For this purpose, a portion only of the boot or shoe should be attended to at a time. The dirt is, of course, to be carefully brushed off before applying the blacking. When it is desired to restore the shape of a boot or shoe, as well as to clean it, ‘ boot trees ’ may be used. Of the brushes, we are told that there should be at least three—one {dirt-brush), with bristles stiff', but not ‘ wiry ’ nor ‘ scratchy,’ to remove mud and dirt; another {blacking-brush), with fine, flexible hair, and plenty of it, for applying the blacking; and a third {polishing-brush), covered with long, fine, springy, and slightly stiff' hair, for giving the polish. The employ- ment of inferior or worn-out brushes, is said to be “false economy,” and proves particularly destructive to the ‘ lighter classes ’ of leather. The occasional use of a little oil or grease to the uppers of hoots and shoes, increases their softness and durability, as well as the ‘ depth,’ but not the brilliancy of the polish, from com- mon blacking. For this purpose some good tallow or ‘ dubbing ’ may be used; the absorp- tion being aided by a very gentle heat. The soles or bottoms of new boots and shoes may be thoroughly saturated with similar substances, by which means their durability will be fully doubled. The common practice among the shoemakers is to moisten the surface of the leather with a wet sponge before applying the oil or grease; by which (they say) its pores are opened and its absorbent powers increased. Patent-leather boots and shoes are best cleaned with a little sweet oil or milk, (pi’c- ferably the first,) the dirt having been pre- viously removed in the usual way. Indian-rubber goloshes and overshoes may be cleaned with a sponge or brush, and water, care being taken not to wet the linings. The same applies to Gutta percha. See Blacking, Leathee, Wateepeoofing, &c. The ‘ reasons why ’ boots and shoes so com- monly cause corns, and fatigue and give pain in wear, are explained in our article on the Feet (wliich see). BOOT-POW'DER. French chalk reduced to powder by scraping or grating. Used to fa-