I XYLOL- XYL'OL. A hydrocarbon, homologous to benzol, found in wood-tar and coal-gas naph- I tha. I YAWS. Syn. Feambcesia, L. A peculiar disease of the shin common in the Antilles and some parts of Africa. It is characterised by mulberry-like excrescences, which dis- charge a watery humour. The treatment chiefly consists in alleviating urgent symp- toms (if any), and the adoption of a tempe- rate diet and regimen, until the eruptions, having run their course, begin to dry, v/hen tonics and alteratives^ us cinchona bark, qui- nine, and sarsaparilla, with occasional small doses of mercurials, generally prove advan- tageous. The MASTEK (or principal) yaw, which frequently remains troublesome after the others have disappeared, may be dressed with the ointment of nitric-oxide of mer- cury, or of nitrate of mercury, diluted with an equal weight of lard. The yaws is not a dangerous, although a very disgusting, disease. It is contagious by contact, and, like the smallpox, only occurs || once during life. ' YEAST. Syn. Baem, Feement, Zumtne ; 'I Feementijm, L. Yeast is either the froth or t| the deposit of fermenting worts, according to B the character of the fermentation. Liebig regards yeast as a substance in a state of putrefaction or fermentation, the atoms of which are in continual motion, a condition which it communicates by contact to ferment- able substances. According to Dr. Liiders- dorft', yeast is an organic body, and acts by means of its organs on the sugar contained in the saccharine solution, and not by mere con- tact and communication of its own condition. This view receives considerable support from the construction of its particles, as shown by the microscope, as well as from the fact that its power of causing fermentation is de- stroyed by trituration and by strong pressure. “ Our own investigations induce us to believe ( that both these views are, to a certain extent, I correct, and that the ‘ atoms in a state of I continual motion or change,’ referred to by I Liebig, are elaborated by the organs of vital > yeast, when in contact with sugar under circum- 1 stances favorable to fermentation.” (Cooley.) The OBEEHEPE, TOP YEAST, 01’ STTPEEPICIAL ' PEEMENT, which covci’s the surface of fer- menting worts, is oxidized gluten in a state of putrefaction ; and the tjnteehepe, bottom YEAST, or the peement op deposit, is oxi- dized gluten in a state of eremacausis. (Lie- ' big.) The first is the common yeast of the English brewer; the other, that used in Ba- varia for the fermentation of w’orts from below (unteegaheung). Both varieties yield their own kind under proper conditions. Wort fermented with top yeast, at from 46 to 50° Fahr., yields both varieties, and each of these furnishes its own kind, nearly pure, by a se- -YEAST. 1355 cond fermentation. See Beewing, Feemen- TION, &c. Pres. 1. Ordinary beer yeast may be kept fresh and fit for use for several months, by placing it in a close canvas bag, and gently and gradually squeezing out the moisture in a screw [press, until the remaining matter ac- quires the consistence of clay or soft cheese, in which state it [must be preserved in close vessels, or wrapped in waxed cloth. This is the method generally adopted for the best Flandees and Geeman yeast. 2. Whisk the yeast until it forms a uniform liquid mass, and then lay it with a clean and soft painter’s brush evenly and thinly on flat dishes, or any convenient surface, on which it can be exposed to the sun or air; this opera- tion must be repeated as soon as the first coat is sufficiently solid, and so on, until the layers acquire a proper thickness, when it must be detached and preserved as before. If ren- dered quite dry, its power of exciting fermen- tation will be destroyed. 3. By employing strips of clean new flannel (well washed), as above; and, when sufficiently dry, rolling these up, and covering them with waxed cloth or paper, or placing them in tin canisters or boxes. For use, a few inches of one of the strips is cut off", and soaked in luke- warm water, when the harm leaves the flannel, and mixes with the water, which may then be stirred up with the flour. Artifi”cial Yeast. “Although the conver- sion of a smaU into a larger quantity of yeast is a very easy thing, yet to produce that substance from the beginning is very difficult.” (Berzelius.) Both cases are met in the for- mulae below. Prep. 1. {Without a ferment.)—a. (Fownes.) Wheat flour is to be mixed with water into a thick paste, which is to be slightly covered, in a moderately warm place; about the third day, it begins to emit a little gas, and to exhale a disagreeable sour odour; about the sixth or seventh day, the smell changes, much gas is evolved, accompanied by a distinct and agreeable vinous odour, and it is then in a state to excite either the vinous or panary fermentation, and may be either at once em- ployed for that purpose or formed into small and very thin cakes, dried in the air, and pre- served for future use. Wort fermented with it in the ordinary way yields a large quantity of yeast, of excellent quality, which is found at the bottom of the vessel. “ This is a revival of a method which, although Mr. Fownes seems to regard it as new, is to be found in the ‘ Chemistry’ of Boerhaave.” (‘ Lancet.’) It is, indeed, a mere modification of the mode of preparing leaven, as practised from the most remote ages of antiquity; but is not the less valuable on that account. 2. {With a ferment.)—a. Take of bean flour, I lb.; watet', 6 quarts; boil for ^ an hour, pour the decoction into any suitable vessel, add of wheat flour, 3^ lb.; stir the