CHEESE. 424 of clieese-making is thus expounded by Liebig:— “ The acid indispensable to the coagulation of milk is not added to the milk in the pre- paration of cheese, but it is formed in the milk at the expense of the milk-sugar present. A small quantity of water is left in contact with a small quantity of a calfs stomach for a few hours, or for a night; the water absorbs so minute a portion of the mucous membrane as to be scarcely ponderable; this is mixed with milk; its state of transformation is commu- nicated (and this is a most important circum- stance), not to the cheese, but to the milk sugar, the elements of which transpose themselves into lactic acid, which neutralizes the alkali, and thus causes the separation of the cheese. By means of litmus paper the process may be followed and observed through all its stages; the alkaline reaction of the milk ceases as soon as the coagulation begins. If the cheese is not immediately separated from the whey, the formation of lactic acid continues, the fluid turns acid, and the cheese itself passes into a state of decomposition. When cheese-curd is kept in a cool place, a series of transformations takes place, in con- sequence of which it assumes entirely new properties; it gradually becomes semi-trans- parent, and more or less soft throughout the whole mass; it exhibits a feebly acid reaction, and develops the characteristic caseous odour. Fresh cheese is very sparingly soluble in water, but after having been left to itself for two or three years, it becomes (especially if all the fat be previously removed) almost completely soluble in cold water, forming with it a solution, which, like milk, is coagulated by the addition of the acetic or mineral acids. The cheese, which whilst fresh is insoluble, re- turns during the maturation, or ripening, as it is called, to a state similar to that in which it originally existed in the milk. In those English, Dutch, and Swiss cheeses, which are nearly inodorous, and in the superior kinds of French cheese, the caseine of the milk is present in its unaltered state. “The odour and flavour of the cheese is owing to the decomposition of the butter; the non-volatile acids, the margaric, and oleic acids, and the volatile butyric acid, capric and caproic acids, are liberated in consequence of the decomposition of glycerine (the sweet principle of oils, or, as it might be termed, the sugar of oils). Butyric acid imparts to cheese its characteristic caseous odour, and the differences in its pungency or aromatic flavour depend upon the proportion of free butyric, capric, and caproic acids present.” In the cheese of certain dairies and districts, valerianic acid has been detected along with the other acids just referred to. Messrs. Jljenko and Laskowski found this acid in the cheese of Limbourg, and M. Bolard in that of Roquefort. “ The transition of the insoluble into soluble caseine depends upon the decomposition of the phosphate of lime by the margaric acid of the butter; maryarate of lime is formed, whilst the phosphoric acid combines with the caseine, forming a compound soluble in water. “ The bad smeU of inferior kinds of cheese, especially those called meagre or poor cheeses, is caused by certain fetid products containing sulphur, and which are formed by the decom- position or putrefaction of the caseine. The alteration which the butter undergoes (that is, in becoming rancid), or which occurs in the milk-sugar still present, being transmitted to the caseine, changes both the composition of the latter substance and its nutritive qualities. “The principal conditions for the prepa- ration of the superior kinds of cheese (other obvious circumstances being of course duly regarded) are a careful removal of the whey, which holds the milk-sugar in solution, and a low temperature during the maturation or ripening of the cheese.” Cheese differs vastly in quality and flavour, according to the method employed in its manufacture, and the richness of the milk of which it is made. Much depends upon the quantity of cream it contains, and conse- quently, when a superior quality of cheese is desired, cream is frequently added to the curd. This plan is adopted in the manufacture of Stilton cheese and others of a like descrip- tion. The addition of a pound or two of butter to the curd for a middling size cheese also vastly improves the quality of the product. To ensure the richness of the milk, not only should the cows be properly fed, but certain breeds chosen. Those of Alderney, Cheddar, Cheshire, Gloucestershire, Guernsey, and North Wiltshire, deserve a preference in this respect. The materials employed in making cheese are milk and rennet. Rennet is the stomach of the calf, and is used either fresh or salted and dried; generally in the latter state. The milk may be of any kind, according to the quality of the cheese required. Cows’ milk is that generally employed; but occasionally ewes’ milk is used; and sometimes, though more rarely, that from goats. In preparing his cheese, the dairy farmer puts the greater portion of the milk into a large tub, to which he adds the remainder, sufficiently heated to raise the temperature to that of new milk. The whole is then whisked together, the rennet or rennet liquor added, and the tub covered over. It is now allowed to stand until completely “ turned,” when the curd is gently struck down several times with the skimming-dish, after which it is allowed to subside. The “vat” covered with cheese- cloth is next placed on a “horse” or “ladder” over the tub, and filled with curd by means of the skimmer, care being taken to allow as little as possible of the oily particles or butter to run back with the whey. The curd is