MOEPHINE. 924 object in view. The clotli is subsequently aired, dried, and well rinsed, before immersing it in tbe colouring bath. In calico printing the mordant is applied partially or topically to the cloth by means of wooden blocks, or some similar contrivance; or certain parts of the cloth are stopped out by a suitable prepa- ration, or ‘ resist,’ by which means a pattern is produced, as the colouring matter of the dye- bath is removed from the other portions by the washing or scouring to which it is subse- quently subjected. The substances used to thicken the mordants by the calico printers, to prevent them spreading, are starch and British gum. The first is prepared for neutral solutions; the last, for acidulous ones. The removal of the undecomposed particles of the mordant, so as to preserve the other portion of the cloth from their action, is eflected by the process of dun&ing (which see). The process of galling or eooting, com- monly employed as a in*eparation of cotton and linen for fast dyes, consists in working the stuff for some time, at a good hand heat, in a decoction of galls or an infusion of sumach. In this case the astringent matter plays the part of a mordant. About 2| oz. of galls, or 5 oz. of sumach, and 3 or 4 pints of water, are commonly taken for every lb. of cotton. See Calico Feinting, Dyeing, and the re- spective dye-stuffs and mordants. Mordant. In gilding, any sticky matter by which gold-leaf is made to adhere. Prep. 1. Water or beer, rendered adhesive by the ad- dition of a little gu7n, sugar, or honey, and tinged with a little gamboge or carmine, to mark the parts to which it is applied. Used to attach gold leaf to paper, taffety, vellum, &c. 2. {Mixtion.) From asphaltum, 1 part; mastic, 4 parts; amber, 12 parts; fused toge- ther, and then mixed with hot boiled oil, 1 pint. Used for gildmg wood, &c. See Gold Size. MOR'PHINE. Syn. Moephia; Moephia (Ph. D.), Moephina, Moephium, L. The chief active principle of opium. Morphine was discovered by Ludwig in 1688, but it was first obtained pure, and its precise nature pointed out by Sertuerner, in 1804. It is pe- culiar to the Papaveracece, or poppy family. Prep. 1. (Ph. D.) Turkey opium (cut into thin slices), 1 lb., is macerated for 24 hours in water, 1 quart, and the liquid portion de- canted; the residuum is macerated for 12 hours with a second quart of water, and the process is repeated with a third quart of water, after which the insoluble portion is sub- jected to strong pressure; the mixed liquids are evaporated by a water or steam heat to a pint, and filtered through calico; to the fil- trate is added a solution formed of chloride of calcium, 6 dr., dissolved in distilled water, 4 fl. oz., and the liquid is further evaporated until it is so far concentrated that nearly the whole of it becomes solid on cooling; this is enve- loped in a couple of folds of strong calico, and subjected to powerful pressure, the dark liquid which exudes being preserved for subsequent use; the squeezed cake is next treated witli about \ pint of boiling water, and the undis- solved portion is washed on a paper filter; the filtered solution is again evaporated, and the solid portion thus obtained submitted to pres- sure, as before; if the product is not quite white, this process is repeated a third time; the squeezed cake is now dissolved in boiling water, 6 fl. oz., and the solution filtered throngli animal charcoal (if necessary); to the clear solution is added liquor of ammonia, in slight excess ; the crystalline precipitate which forms as the liquid cools, is collected on a paper filter, washed with cold distilled water, and, lastly, the filter is transferred to a porous brick, in order that the morphine which it contains may become dry. (From the liquids reserved from the expressions more morphine may be obtained by dilution with water, pre- cipitation with ammonia, resolution in boiling water, and treatment with a little animal char- coal, &c., as before.) 2. (Ph. L. 1836.) Hydrochlorate of mor- phine, 1 oz., is dissolved in distilled water, 1 pint; and liquor of ammonia, 5 fl. dr. (or q. s.), previously diluted with water, 1 fl. oz , is added, with agitation ; the precipitate is well washed in distilled water, and dried by a gentle heat. By a similar process morphine may be obtained from its other salts. 2. (Merck.) A cold aqueous infusion of opium is precipitated with carbonate of soda, in excess; the precipitate washed, first with cold water, and then with cold alcohol of sp. gr. •85; the residuum is dissolved in weak acetic acid, the solution filtered through animal char- coal, and precipitated with ammoiiia ; the pre- cipitate is again washed with cold water, dis- solved in alcohol, and crystallized. A good process where spirit is cheap. 4. (Mohr.) Opium, 4 parts, is made into a strong wfusmi with water, q. s.; lime, 1 part, reduced to the state of milk with water, is then added; the mixture is next heated to boiling, at once filtered through linen, and treated, whilst still hot, with sal ammoniac, in fine powder, in slight excess (about 1 oz. to each lb. of opium); the morphine is deposited as the liquid cools, and may be purified by a second solution in lime and precipitation by sal ammoniac. This process is remark- ably simple, and in many points is preferable to any other, either on the small or large scale. 5. (PuEE.) A filtered solution of opium in tepid v)ater is mixed with acetate of lead in excess; the precipitate (‘meconate of lead’) Ls separated by a filter, and a stream of sul- phuretted hydrogen is passed through the nearly colourless filtrate; the latter is warmed, to expel excess of the gas, once more filtered, and then mixed with a slight excess of liquor of ammonia, which throws down naecotine and