1140 PKECIPITATE—PRESCRIBING. film of India rubber, wbicb almost entirely re- moves the itchiness of the pustules and pre- vents ‘pitting.’ To remove the pock-marks, whether recent or old, nothing appears to be better than warm sea-bathing, or the use of tepid ioduretted lotions. The smallpox is eminently contagious, but only attacks the same person once during life. Formerly, a milder form of the disease was propagated by INOCITLA.TION, a practice intro- duced into England from Turkey, by Lady Mary Wortley Montague, about the year 1721. At the present day, in England, inoculation, as well as the exposure of a patient labouring under smallpox, is penal, the punishment being either by fine or imprisonment. See Cow-pox (above). PRECIP'ITATE. Any substance which has separated from its solution in a solid and, usually, a pulverulent or flocculent form. The substance by which such a change is produced is called the ‘ pbecipitant’; and the act or operation by which it is effected is called ‘ PEECIPITATION.’ The old chemists gave this name to several compounds. Red peecipi- TATE, or PEECIPITATE PEE SE, is the ‘ iiitric oxide of mercury’ prepared by heat. White PEECIPITATE is ‘ ammonio-chloride of mer- cury.’ PRECIPITA'TION. The formation or sub- sidence of a precipitate. (See above.) When the precipitate is the chief object of the pro- cess, it is necessary to wash it, after it is sepa- rated by filtration. This operation requires little attention when the substance thrown down is insoluble in water; but when it is in some degree soluble in that liquid, great atten- tion is required to prevent the loss which might result from the use of too much water. Precipitates soluble in water, but insoluble in alcohol, are frequently, on the small scale, washed with spirit more or less concentrated. The best precipitating vessel is a very tall glass jar, furnished with a lip and spout, and narrower at the bottom than at the mouth, so that the pre- cipitate may readily col- lect by subsidence, and the supernatant liquor be decanted off with more ease. PREG'NANCY. For the preservation of the health, and the prevention of the numerous discomforts and dangers which so frequently attend this condition, nothing is so effective as exercise. It is this that is so favourable to the humble peasant, and it is its absence that inflicts such calamities on the wealthier classes. Exercise, moderate and unfatiguing, when assisted by regular habits, and a diet nutri- tious, but not too liberal, is, indeed, capable of not only affording pleasure and increasing the comforts of existence, but is also generally suf- ficient to greatly lessen the severity of the sufferings, and to ward off the not unfrequent fatal results which terminate this interestii condition. The sickness of pregnancy may be great ameliorated, if not removed, by the occasion use of a saline aperient, and by effervesci\ draughts formed with the bicarbonate of p tassa and citric acid. The oxalate of cerium strongly recommended by Professor Simpso of Edinburgh, as a remedy for obstinate voini ing in pregnancy. Dose. 1 gr. to 2 gr., thri times a day in pills. PRESCRI"BING (Art of). Besides a knov ledge of diseases and their treatment, much the success of the physician depends on ci cumstances connected with the form in whic the remedies are exhibited. In writing a pr scription, it is necessary to consider the agi sex, temperament, habits, and idiosyncrasy the patient, as well as the conditions of clima and season, before the selection of the leadii medicament, and the apportioning of the dos The most convenient form of exhibiting whether it should be given alone or in sod simple form, or combined with other ingr dients, the compatibility of the latter, ai how far these are likely to assist, impede, modify, its operation, must also receive t consideration of the practitioner. Without careful attention to all these circumstanci the most valuable remedies may be render worthless, and the highest medical skill a: the best intentions frustrated. A prescription generally contains several n dicinal substances, which are distinguished medical writers by names indicative of t office which each of them performs. Th(- are—1. The basis, which is the principle most active ingredient;—2. The adjuvaj or that which is intended to promote t action of the base;—3. The coeeective, i tended to correct, modify, or control its acti< or to cover its odour or taste, as when we a carminatives or diaphoretics to cathartics, aromatics or liquorice to nauseous substanc( —4. The EXCIPIENT, or that which gives t whole a commodious or agreeable form, a which, consequently, gives the prescription peculiar character, as that of draught, m ture, pills, &c. To these, certain Continen writers add a 5th,—The inteemedium, whi is the substance employed to unite reined which are not, by themselves, miscible w each other, or with the excipient. Of t character are the yolk of egg and mucila employed in the preparation of emulsions. The medicinal substances, with the qu: tities to be taken, generally arranged as abo are said to form the ‘ insceiption,’—the rections as to their combination or dispensii which usually come next, the ‘ stjbsceiptic and—the orders for the exhibition of the co pound medicine, which follow these, the ‘ stehctions.’ These distinctions are, he ever, in many cases more technical than useJ In choosing the form of a prescription,