501 DECAY—DECOCTION. I cess somewhat resembles annealing or cemen- i] tation. I DECAY'. See Eeemacausis. 1 DEC'IMALS, Syn. Decimal eeactions. j Fractions which have for their denominator I 10, or some power of ten; as, 100, 1000, &c.; I the number of ciphers in the denominator being always equal to the number of figures I in the numerator. Thus, *2, *25, *125, re- I spectively represent fg, The denomi- j nator of decimals is never written, the dot i placed before the first figure of the numerator I expressing its value. Ciphei’s placed on the I right hand of a decimal fraction do not alter j its value; for ’5, *50, *500, are each equal to i; but ciphers placed on the left hand of a decimal diminish its value in a tenfold pro- portion ; thus, *3, *03, *003, respectively answer to the common fractions, fg, g3g, and Every figure on the left-hand side of the dot or decimal sign is a whole number. Addition and stjbteaction oe decimals are performed in the same manner as with common numbers, care being taken to place the numbers under each other according to their several values; as, tens under tens, hundreds under hundreds, &c. Multiplication op decimals is performed in precisely the same manner as with whole numbers, merely pointing off as many figures in the product as there are decimals in the multiplier and multiplicand put together. Division op decimals. As the last, but pointing off as many figures in the quotient as the decimal places in the dividend exceed those of the divisor. If there are not figures enough in the quotient, the deficiency must be supplied by prefixing left-hand ciphers. Ciphers are also added to the right hand of the dividend, or to a remainder, when there are more figures in the divisor than in the dividend, by which the quotient may be carried on to any extent. A vulgar fraction is reduced to a decimal, by dividing the numerator (increased suffi- ciently with ciphers) by the denominator. Thus, 1 = *5, ^ = *125, &c. The value of a decimal, of any denomination, is found by multiplying it by the number of parts in the next less denomination, and cutting off* as many places to the right hand as there are decimals, and so on until the terms are exhausted. Thus, *634 oz. is = •634 8 5*072 drachms. 60 4*320 grains. or, 5 dr. gr. (nearly). The constant use of decimals in the labo- ratory, in the surveys of the Excise, and in numerous chemical calculations, induce us to press the subject on the attention of operatives and others of neglected education. An atten- tive perusal of the above, and a few hours’ application, will make the matter familiar to them. DECOC'TION. Syn. Decoct'um, L. An aq ueous solution of the active principles of any substance obtained by boiling; also the pro- cess of preparing such solutions. The efiect of decoction in water differs greatly from that of infusion. At the tem- perature of 212° Fahr., the essential oils and aromatic principles of vegetables are dissipated or decomposed; while by infusion in hot water, in covered vessels, they remain for the most part uninjured. The solvent powers of boiling water are, however, much greater than those of ‘hot water;’ and many vegetable prin- ciples scarcely acted on by the one are freely soluble in the other. This is the case with many of the alkaloids, on which the medicinal virtues of several vegetables depend. On the other hand, the solutions of many substances, though more readily made by boiling, are speedily weakened or rendered inert by ebul- lition, in consequence of the active principles being either volatilized along with the steam, or oxidized or decomposed by exposure to the atmosphere. This is particularly the case with substances abounding in extractive or astringent matter. When the medicinal pro- perties of vegetables are volatile, or are injured by a strong heat, infusion should be had recourse to, in preference to boiling; but when a solution of the fixed constituents is alone sought, decoction is preferable. The substances employed for making decoc- tions should be well bruised, or reduced to a very coarse powder, or, if fresh and soft, they should be sliced small. In the former case, any very fine powder or adhering dust should be removed with a sieve, as its presence tends to make the product thick and disagreeable, and also more troublesome to strain. The vessel in which the ebullition is conducted should be furnished with an accurately fitting cover, the better to exclude the air; and the application of the heat should be so conducted that the fluid may be kept ‘simmering,’ or only gently boiling, as violent boiling is not only quite unnecessary, but absolutely injurious to the quality of the product. In every case the liquor should be strained whilst hot, but not boiling, and the best method of doing this is to employ a fine hair sieve, or a coarse flannel bag. In general, it is found that, as decoctions cool, a sediment is formed, in consequence of the boiling water dissolving a larger portion of vegetable matter than it can retain in so- lution when cold. This deposit for the most part consists of the active principles of the solution, and, unless when otherwise ordered, should be mingled with the clear liquid by agitation, when the decoction enters into extemporaneous compositions, or when the dose is taken. The length of time occupied by the ebullition is another point demanding some attention.