747 HYDROMETKY—HYDROPATHY. I meter for liquids lighter than water poised! I so that the 0 of the scale is at the bottom of I . the stem, when it is floating in a solution of 1 oz. of common salt in 9 oz. of water, and the depth to which it sinks in distilled water shows 10°; the space between these fixed points being equally divided, and the gradua- tion continued upwards to the top of the scale. I The temperature at which these instruments j were originally adjusted by Baume was 12-5° j Centigrade (54‘5° Pahr.). They are now com- I monly adjusted in this country at 58 or 60° j Fahr. Hence arise the discrepancies observ- 1 able in the published tables of the “ corre- I spondence between degrees of Baume and { real specific gravities.”^ Caetiee’s hydeometee, which is much j used in France for light liquids, has the same 1 point for the zero of its scale as Baume’s, but I its degrees are rather smaller, 30° Baume I being equal to 32° Cartier. \ Dicas’S hydeometee closely resembles Sykes’s, and was formerly very generally adopted in this country for testing the strength of spirit. j Faheenheit’s hydeometee consists of a hollow ball, with a counterpoise below, and a very slender stem above, terminating in a small dish. The middle, or half-length of the stem, is distinguished by a fine line across it. In this instrument every division of the stem is rejected, and it is immersed in all experiments to the middle of the stem, by I placing proper weights in the little dish I above. Then, as the part immersed is con- stantly of the same magnitude, and the whole weight of the hydrometer is known, this last weight, added to the weights in the dish, will be equal to the weight of fluid displaced by 1 the instrument, as all writers on hydrostatics prove. And accordingly, the sp. gravities for the common form of the tables will be had by the proportion— As the whole weight of the hydrometer and its load, when adjusted in distilled water, is to the number 1000, so is the whole weight when adjusted in any other fluid, to the number ex- pressing its specific gravity. j Gay-Ltjssac’s aeeometee and alcohol- METEE at once indicate on their stems the strength of the liquid examined, which merely requires correction for temperature. Guyton-Moeveau’s HYDEOMETEE resem- bles Fahrenheit’s. Nicholson’s hydeometee is constructed on the same principle as Fahrenheit’s. It has, in addition to the small dish for weights above, i a little cup attached below, for holding any I solid body whose xoeight in water is required. It is chiefly intended for taking the sp.gr. of minerals. Richtee’s hydeometee resembles, for the most part, Gay-Lussac’s? Sykes’s hydeometee is that adopted by j ^ See Tables, 207. j * Sccp^e0:3, the Revenue authorities in England for ascer- taining the strength of spirits, and has been already fully noticed.^ Tealles’s hydeometee resembles Gay- Lussac’s (nearly). Twaddell’s hydeometee is much used in the bleaching establishments of Scotland, and in some parts of England. According to this scale, 0 is equal to 1000 or the sp. gr. of dis- tilled water, and each degree is equal to *005; so that, by multiplying this number by the number of degrees marked on the scale, and adding 1% the real specific gravity is obtained. Obs. Hydrometers, unless manufactured with great care and skill, merely afford, ap- proximate results, but which are nevertheless sufficiently correct for all ordinary purposes. They also require several ounces of liquid to float them, and hence cannot be used for very small quantities. Those of Fahrenheit, Nichol- son, and Sykes, are the most accurate, both in principle and application. They are all em- ployed with a tall glass cylinder, termed a sample, test, or hydrometer glass, in the way already noticed but the thermometer for ascertaining the temperature must be covered with a glass case, or arranged with a folding scale, to allow of its immersion in corrosive liquids. Alcoholometees, Elaiometees, Saccha- eometees, Ueinometees, &c., are simply hy- drometers so Aveighted and graduated as to adapt them for testing spirits, syrups, urine, &c. See Alcoholometey, Alcoholmetey, Aeeometee, Specieic Geavity, &c. EYDROM'ETRY. Syn. Aeeometey. The art of determining the specific gravity of liquids, and hence their strength and com- mercial value. The instruments used are noticed above; their action depends upon the fact that a floating body displaces a bulk, equal to itself in weight, of the fluid in which it floats, and consequently that a body of a given weight sinks deeper in a lighter than in a heavier fluid. In hydrometic determi- nations the temperature of the samples must be carefully attended to, for fluids expand as their temperature is increased. The hydro- meters used in England are generally adjusted to the standard temperature of 60° Fahr., and when ‘Hydrometer 2’ables,’ giving the corrections for the variations of the ther- mometer, are not accessible, the fluids to be examined should be brought to this standard temperature by warming the room or apply- ing heat directly to the vessel, when the tem- perature is below the standard; by placing the liquid in a cool situation, or by surround- ing the vessel with cold water, when it is above the standard. The principal applications of hydrometry are described in different parts of this work. See Acetimetey, Alcoholometey, Chloeometey, Specific Geavity, &c. HYDROP'ATHY. Syn. Watee cuee; Hy- DEOPATHIA, L. A mode of curing diseases 3 Sec page C l, * Ibid,