SPITTING OF BLOOD—SPOTS AND STAINS. 1234 spirit of tuberose and rectified spirit, of each, 1 pint; spirits of jasmin and cassia, of each, 1 quart; dissolve, then add of eau de rose, 1 pint, and mix well. Esprit de Tain. [Fr.] Syn. Spirit op lemon THYME; Spieitus thtmi, L. From tops of lemon thyme, 2 lb.; proof spirit, 1 gall.; distil 7 pints. Esprit de Violettes. [Fr.] Syn. Spirit op VIOLETS, Essence op v., E. op orris. From Florentine orris root, reduced to coarse pow- der, 5 lb.; rectified spirit, 1 pint; by simple maceration for a fortnight. A stronger and finer article (essence op violets) is prepared from orris root, 5 lb., to rectified spirit, 1 gall.; by percolation. Essences (Various). See pages 577 to 589. Extract of Nosegay. See page 621. Extract of Peach Blossom. See page 623. Extrait de Bouquet. [Fr.] Extract of nose- gay. Extrait de Marechale. [Fr.] See page 1233. Extrait de Millefleurs. [Fr.] See page 1233. Extrait de Rondeletia. [Fr.] See page 585, and above. Odeur Delectable. [Fr.] From oils of lavender, bergamot, rose-geranium, and cloves, of each, 1 fl. dr.; eaux de rose and fieurs d’orange, of each, i pint; rectified spirit, 1^ pint. Odeur Suave. [Fr.] See Esprit {above). Spirit of Cytherea. From the spirits of violets, tuberose, clove-gillyflower, jasmin (No. 2 —see abovF), roses (No. 2), and Portugal, of each, 1 pint; orange-flower water, 1 quart; mix. Spirit of the Flowers of Italy. Syn. Esprit he pleues, Fr. From the spirits of roses (No. 1—see above), jasmin (No. 2), oranges (No. 3), and cassia (No. 2), of each, 4 pints; orange-flower water, 3 pints; mix. Spirits (Various). All the simple perfumed spirits or esprits may he prepared in one or other of the manners noticed at pages 1231.— They are principally used for making the COMPOUND EAUX and ESPRITS. The same may he said of the odoeiperous tinctures employed by perfumers. The common strength of those prepared with the oils is about \ fl. dr. of otto, 1 fl. dr. of neroli, ^ fl. oz. of the ordi- nary essential oils, or, 2 fl. oz. of the concen- trated essences, to each pint of spirit at about 30 o. p. (’880), or never weaker than proof (•920). Victoria Perfume. See Esprit de la eeine {above). SPIT'TING OF BLOOD. See Haemoptysis. SPONGE. Syn. Spongia, S. oppicinalis, L. Sponge is a cellular fibrous structure, produced by marine animals of the humblest type, belonging to the sub-kingdom Protozoa. The finest quality is imported from Smyrna, and is known as Turkey sponge ; another, called West Indian or Bahama sponge, is much less esteemed, being coarse, dark c loured, and very rotten. Sponge, as collected, and also as genera imported, contains many impurities, nu, especially sand, most of which may be ) moved by heating it, and by washing it water. Amusing disputes often arise hetwe| the smaller importers and the wholesale p\ chasers, on this subject—the privilege beating it before weighing it, the number minutes so employed, and even the size of t. stick, being often made important matters the ‘haggling.’ Bleached sponge (white spong. SPONGIA dealbata) is prepared by soaki ordinary sponge in very dilute hydrochloi acid, to remove calcareous matter, then cold water, changing it frequently, and squei ing the sponge out each time, and next, water holding a little sulphuric or sulpkun acid, or, still better, a very little chlorine, solution; the sponge is, lastly, repeatec washed and soaked in clean water, scent with rose or orange-flower water, and dried. Burnt sponge (spongia usta—Ph. D.) prepared by heating the cuttings and uma able pieces in a closed iron crucible until tb become black and friable, avoiding too mu heat, and allowing the whole to cool bef( exposing it to the air. It was formerly great repute in hronchocele and scrofulc complaints.— Dose. 1 to 3 dr., in water, made into an electuary or lozenges.—VVh good, burnt sponge evolves violet fumes iodine on being heated in a flask along wi, sulphuric acid. Compressed or waxed sponge (spong CERATA, S. compeessa) is sponge which li been dipped into melted wax, and then co pressed between two iron plates until co When cut into pieces it forms ‘ sponge teni which are used by surgeons to dilate wound SPOTS and STAINS.—1. Oil and grea SPOTS on boards, marble, &c., when rece may he removed by covering them with paste made of fullePs earth and hot wat and the next day, when the mixture has 1 come perfectly dry, scouring it off with } soap-and-water. For old spots, a mixture fuller’s earth and soft soap, or a paste made fresh-slaked lime civApearlash will be better; c serving not to touch the last with the finge 2. Kecent spots of oil, grease, or wa on woollen cloth or silk, may he removed wi a little clean oil of turpentine ov naphtha; with a little fuller’s earth or scrap French chalk, made into a paste with wat and allowed to dry on them. They in^ also be generally removed by means of rather hot flat-iron and blotting paper or spon' brown paper, more especially if the cloth,; one of the pieces of paper, be first sligh damped. Old oil and grease spots requ ; to be treated with ox-gall or yolk of egg, maj into a paste with fuller’s earth or soap. Pai SPOTS, when recent, generally yield to the k