LIQUOR. 851 j to each fl. oz. of the liquorlastly, allow it to ' repose for 20 clays, that the dregs may subside. I Obs. It is not at all clear whether the Col- I lege means 3 tl. dr. of spirit to be added to ' each fl. oz, of the liquid before its addition, or j that it is to be added so that each fl. oz. of the I product shall contain that quantity. We pre- I sume the former. 1 fl. dr. of this preparation ■ is said to represent fully 4 fl. oz. of the IN- : FUSION OF CINCHONA—Pll. L. ; but it is ob- I vious that it must be liable to great variations j in strength. “ In a general way, 1 fl. dr. may j be considered equal to 3 fl. oz. of the infusion.” , (Pereira.) As commonly met with, this pre- j paration is nearly destitute of the cinchona I alkaloids. I 2. Yellow cinchona bark, bruised, 56 lb., and I water holding in solution sulphuric acid, l\lb., . are macerated together, with occasional agi- tation, in a covered earthen vessel, for 48 hours, after which the liquid is expressed, and the residuum or marc is treated with fresh water; I the mixed strained liquid is then evaporated as rapidly as possible in earthenware, to exactly 6 lb. ; to this, rectified spirit, li lb., is added, and the whole is set aside for a week or : 10 days; the clear portion is, lastly, decanted I and preserved in well-closed bottles. The I product is very rich in quinine. It is 96 times j as strong as the decoction of cinchona— * Ph. L., and 12 times as strong as the above ' preparation of the Ph. L. This preparation j resembles the ‘liquoe cinchon.®’ sold by certain houses in the trade, at 24s. per lb., I wholesale. : 3. Exhaust the bark as above, by mace- |q ration in 3 successive waters without acid, ;i filter, evaporate the mixed liquors to 7 lb., and I i)*oceed as before. Inferior to the last, and I less rich in the cinchona alkaloids. Very thick; i scarcely liquid. 4. Erom pale baek :—(Liquoe cinchoNjE PALLID.E j InFUSUM CINCHON.E SPISSATUM— I Ph. L.) From pale bark, as the last. ! Disinfect'ing Liquor. See Solution (Chlo- 1 rides of Lime, Soda, and Zinc), and jDisin- ! FECTiNO Compounds. I Liquor of Er'got. Syn. Essence of eeGOT OF EYE, CONCENTEATED INFUSION OF E. ; i Essentia secalis coenuti, Liquoe eegot.e, ' Infusum eegot^ concenteatum, L. Prep. ; Recent ergot of rye (reduced to coarse powder 1 by pounding, or preferably by grinding it in a j pepper-mill), 1^ lb., and boiling distilled water, ; 4 lb., are digested together in a closed vessel, 1 with frequent agitation, until cold, and then put into a wide-mouthed bottle, along with ! rectified spirit, 2 lb.; the w’hole is then allow'ed i to macerate for a week, after which the liquor is expressed and filtered. Obs. 4 fl. dr. of I this essence are equal to 1 dr. of ergot in I substance. It is 8 times the strength of j the INFUSION (as usually prepared according I to the formula of Pereira and others), and 2^ ! times the strength of the tinctuee of eeGOT t of the London Apothecaries’ Hall. This is the only ESSENCE or LIQUOE OF EEGOT known in the wholesale trade. Liquor of Flints. See Solution. Libavius’s Liquor. Bichloride of tin. Liquor of Mat'ico. Syti. Concenteated INFUSION OF MATICO; LiQUOE MATICONIS, Infusum maticonis concenteatum, L. Prep. Prom matico leaves, 1 lb.; rectified spirit, ^ pint; distilled water, 32 fl. oz.; digest 10 days, express, and filter. 1 fl. dr. added to 7 fl. dr. of water is equal to 1 fl. oz. of the com- mon infusion. Liquor of Myrrh. Syn. Solution of mteeh ; Liquoe mteeHuE, Loco liquaminis mye- EHiE,. L. Prep. <(Ph, Bor.) Extract of myrrh (Ph. Bor.), 1 oz.; distilled water, 5 fl. oz.; mix thoroughly, decant, and strain. It should be of a brownish-yellow colour, and turbid. Dose. ^ to 1 fl. dr. Liquor of O'pium. Syn. Liquoe opii, L. 0. CONCENTEATUS, L. opiATUS, L. See Black Deop.^ 2. (Messrs. Smith.) Opium, 4 oz., is made into an extract, and ‘ denarcotized’ by ether; it is then dissolved in alcohol, filtered, evapo- rated nearly to dryness, and redissolved in water, q. s. to furnish 12 oz. of solution ; to this is added, of rectified spirit, 2| oz., with water, q. s. to make the whole up to 16 oz. Dose. 3 to 12 drops. 3. (Acetic j Liquoe opii aceticus, L.) See Laudanum (Houlton’s.) 4. (Citric; Liquoe opii citeicus, L.)—a. Powdered opium, 1^ oz.; lemon juice, 1^ pint; evaporate to one half, cool, add of rectified spirit, 5 fl. oz., and the next day decant or filter ; same strength as ‘ laudanum.’ b. (Liquoe moephi^ citeatis—Dr. Por- ter.) Opium, 4 oz.; citric acid, 2 oz.; tritu- rate, and add of boiling water, 15 fl. oz.; digest with agitation for 24 hours, and filter. This last has above three times the strength of ‘ laudanum.’ It is sadly misnamed. 5. (Hydrochloric; Solution of mueiate OF OPIUM; Liquoe opii hydeochloeicus, L.—Dr. Nichol.) Powdered opium, 1^ oz.; distilled water, 1 pint; hydrochloric acid, 1^ fl. oz.; digest a fortnight, and strain with ex- pression. Same strength as ‘ laudanum.’ Ac- cording to Dr. Nichol, this is preferable to every other preparation of opium. 6. (Sedative; Battley’sSedative solution OF OPIUM; Liquoe opii sedatitus, L.)—a. Hard aqueous extract ^ opium (bruised), 3 oz., is boiled in water, 1^ pint, until dissolved; to the solution, w'hen cold, rectified spirit, 6 oz., is added, together with water, q. s. to. make the whole measure exactly 1 quart ; the liquor is, lastly, filtered. b. From hard extract of opium, 22 oz.; boiling water, 13 pints; rectified spirit, 3 pints ; as the last. c. From extract of opium—Ph. L., 4^ oz.; water, 1 quart; boil till reduced to 34 fl. oz. ) 1 Under Deops, 530.