1 } i \ ll' 1 f i i I CEMENT. tallow or i lb.; melt together, and stir in the colouring matter. 2. Resin, 5 lb.; bees’ wax, 1 lb.; colouring, q. s.; as last. 3. (Red.) To eacii pound of the above add whiting (dry), 3 oz., and light red (burnt ochre), 4 oz. ; or red bole, q. s.; (all in fine powder). 4. (Black.)—a. To each pound of No. 1, or No. 2, add ivory black (bone black), q. s. b. From black pitch, 6 lb.; ivory black and whiling, of each, 1 lb.; melted together. Used in the same way as common sealing-w'ax for bottle corks, cask bungs, &c. See Mais- siat’s Cement. Brim'stone Cement. Melted brimstone, either alone, or mixed with resin and hrickdust. Cheap and useful. Brii'yere’s Cement. Clay, 3 parts; slaked lime, 1 part; mix and expose them to a full red heat for 3 hours, then grind to powder. Re- commended as an hydraulic cement. Eaild'ing Cement. Syn. Aetificial przzo- LENe'. From a mixture of clay or loam, broken pottery,flints, or siliceous sand, or broken bottle glass, and ivood ashes, exposed to a considerable heat in a furnace, until it becomes partially vitrified; it is then ground to fine pov.der, sifted, and mixed with one third its weight of quicklime, also in fine powder, after which it must be packed (tight) in casks to preserve it from the air and moisture. For use it is mixed up with water and applied like Roman cement. Cap Cement. J?rep. 1. Resin, 5 lb.; bees’ wax and dried Venetian red, of each, 1 lb.; melted together. 2. (C. G. Williams.) Equal weights of red lead and while lead. Used for chemical and electrical purposes. For cementing glass tubes, necks of balloons, &c., into metal mount- ings. No. 2 is preferable to white lead alone, and may be depended on for temperature up to 212°. Cheese Cement. From grated cheese, 2 parts; quicklime (in fine powder), 1 part; white of egg, q. s.; beat to a paste. Used for earthenware, &c. Chemical Cement. Syn. Soft cement. Prep. From yellow wax, 4 parts; common turpentine, 2 parts ; Venetian red (well dried), 1 part; melted together. Used as a tempo- rary stopping or lute for the ends or joints of tubes, \vhich are not exposed to much heat; as in alkalimetry, &c. See Electeical Cement. Chi'nese Cement. Syn. Shell-lag cement, IjIQUID glue. Prep. 1. Finest pale orange shell-lac (broken small), 4 oz.; rectified spirit (strongest), 3 oz.; digested together in a corked bottle in a warm place until dissolved. Very strong and useful; almost odourless. It should have about the consistence of treacle. 2. As before, but using reclifled wood naphtha as the solvent. Inferior to the last, but ex- cellent for many purposes. 3. (Without spirit.) Prep. Borax, 1 oz.; water, | pint; shell-lac, 3 oz.; boil in a co- vered vessel until dissolved, then evaporate to 409 a proper consistence. Cheap and useful, but dries slowly. Uses, ^c. Employed to mend glass, china, fancy work, jewellery, &c., for which it is only inferior to Armenian cement. The flrst for- mula produces a cement so strong that pieces of wood may be joined together, cut slopingly across the grain, and will afterwards resist every attempt to break them at the same place. In many of the islands of the Indian Ocean, in Japan, China, and the East Indies, a similar cement is used to join pieces of wood for bows, lances, &c. The fluid is thinly smeared over each face of the joint, a piece of very thin gauze interposed, and the whole pressed tightly together and maintained so until the next day. Joints so made will even bear the continual flexure of a bow without separating. It is admirably adapted for fishing rods. The product of the second formula is commonly sold as LIQUID glue. That of the last is much used by the druggists and oilmen, instead of gum, for fixing paper labels to tin, and to glass when exposed to damp. Cop'persmiths’ Cement. Syn. Blood ce- ment. From bullock’s blood thickened with finely powdered quicklime. Used to secure the edges and rivets of copper boilers, to mend leaks from joints, &c. It must be used as soon as mixed, as it rapidly gets hard. It is cheap and durable, and is suited for many other pur- poses. Curd Cement. Prep. 1. The. curd of skimmed milk (obtained by the addition of vinegar or rennet) is beaten to a paste with quicklime, in fine powder. 2. Add vinegar, ^ pint, to skimmed milk, ^ pint; mix the curd with the whites of 5 eggs ; well beaten and powdered quicklime, ([. s. to form a paste. Used for mending glass and earthenw’are, they resist water and a moderate degree of heat. Cutlers’ Cement. Prep. 1. Black resin, 4 lb. ; bees’ wax, 1 lb.; melt, and add finely powdered and well-dried hrickdust, 1 lb. ; mix well. 2. Equal weights of resin and hrickdust, melted together. Use. To fix knives and forks in their handles. It is put into the hollow of the handle, and the metal, previously made hot enough to melt the composition, pressed into its place whilst warm, and the whole kept upright and still until quite cold. Di'amond Cement. See Aemenian Ce- ment. Egg Cement. White of egg thickened with finely-powdered quicklime. Used to mend eartlienwarc, glass, china, marble, alabaster, spar ornaments, &c. It does not resist long exposure to moisture, unless it has been ex- posed to heat. Elas'tic Cement. Prep. 1. Caoutchouc (in small pieces), 1 part; chloroform, 3 parts; dissolve. 2. (Lenher.) Caoutchouc, 5 parts; chloro- I