VERJUICE—VESICANTS. 1310 diter the lime should be of the purest kind, and the cupreous precipitate should be care- fully triturated with it, after it is nearly dry, by which a fine velvety appearance is produced. The ‘CENDEES BLETJES EN PATES ’ of the French differ from the above mainly in a solu- tion of chloride of copper being employed, and in the resulting green precipitate being turned blue by the action of carbonate of potassa. Verditer is made into crayons whilst moist, or dried into a powder, or it is iised as a water colour in the moist state. Green Verditer. Syn. Bremen green. The process for refiner’s verditer frequently miscarries, and a green colour is produced in- stead of a blue one. It may also be obtained directly by omitting the ‘blueing up* with carbonate of potassa, mentioned above. VER'JUICE. Syn. Agresta, Omphacidm, L. The expressed juice of unripe grapes. The term is also often extended to the expressed juice of the wild or crab apple. It was for- merly used as an astringent and refrigerant in medicine; but is now principally employed as an ingredient in sauces, ragouts, &c. VERMICEL'LI. This, like macaroni, is prepared from a stiff paste made of a peculiar fine kind of granular wheat flour, called semoule, which is mixed up with hot water, and, after being well kneaded, is formed into small ribands, cylinders, or tubes, by being placed in a vertical cylinder press, the bottom of which is filled with proper-shaped holes, through which it is driven by an iron plate or ‘fol- lower* being forced down by means of a power- ful screw. The pieces that protrude are broken off, twisted into any desired shape upon paper, and dried. Those in the form of fillets or ribands are called ‘ lazagnes.’ See Maca- roni. VER'MIFUGES. Syn. Anthelmintics ; Anthelmintica, Helminthagoga, Vermi- FUGA, L. Medicines employed to destroy or expel intestinal worms. Some of these, as coarsely powdered tin- and iron-filings and cowhage, act as mechanical agents, by irri- tating the worms; others have a specific action upon w’orms, as male fern, kousso, santonin, &c.; others, again, owe their power to their action as purgatives, as calomel, gamboge, jalap, &c. See Worms. VERMILION. Syn. Factitious cinna- bar, Red sulphuret of mercury. This article may be prepared both in the moist and dry way; that of commerce is almost entirely obtained by the latter. Prep. 1. By sublimation. Take of pure mercury, 202 parts; pure sulphur, 33 parts; fuse them together by a gentle heat, observing not to allow the mass to take fire; when fused, cover over the vessel, and, when the whole has become cold, powder the mass, and sublime it in a closed vessel, so placed in a furnace that the flame may freely circulate and play upon it to about half its height, the heat being at first gradually applied, and afterwards augmented until the lower part of the subliming vessel becomes red hot; the cold sublimate is broken into pieces, ground along with water to a fine powder, elutriated, passed through a sieve, and dried. Prod. Fully 112g of the weight of the mercury employed. 2. In the humid way. (Brunner.) Take of pure quicksilver, 300 parts; pure sublimed sul- phur, 114 parts; triturate them together for several hours, until a perfect ‘ ethiops* is formed, add gradually of caustic potassa, 75 parts, (dissolved in) water, 450 parts; con- tinue the trituration for some time longer, then gently heat the mixture in an iron vessel, at first constantly stirring, but afterwards only from time to time, observing to keep the heat at about 113°, or, at all events, under 122° Fahr., and to add fresh water, to compensate for the portion evaporated. When the colour begins to redden, great caution is requisite to preserve the mixture at the lower tempera- ture, and to keep the sulphuret of mercury perfectly pulverulent; as soon as the colour becomes nearly ‘fine,* the process must be conducted with increased caution, and at a lower heat for some hours, or until a rich colour is produced, when the newly formed ver- milion must be elutriated with water, to sepa- rate any particles of metallic mercury, and carefully dried. Prod. 332 parts of vermilion, equal in brilliancy to the finest Chinese. Obs. It has been said that the rich tone of Chinese vermilion may be imitated by adding to the materials Ig of sulphuret of antimony, and by digesting the ground sublimate, first in a solution of sulphuret of potassium, and next in diluted hydrochloric acid, after which it must be well edulcorated with water, and dried. Our own belief is, that the finer quali- ties of vermilion owe their superiority of shade more to the care bestowed on their sublima- tion, and the extent to which their division is carried, than to anything else. Vermilion is a beautiful and permanent red pigment, and works and covers well both in oil and water. VERTTGO. Dizziness and swimming of the head. In its more serious forms there is more or less mental confusion, the objects around the patient appear in motion, the ears are op- pressed with strange sounds, and visible illu- sions are experienced, whether the eyes be closed or open, and in darkness as well as in the light. The causes are fulness of the ves- sels of the head, nervous derangement, general debility, haemorrhage, the use of narcotics, an overloaded stomach, and, in some cases, an empty one. It is also frequently symptomatic of fevers and inflammations, and of a condition threatening apoplexy. The treatment must be varied, according to the cause and the peculiar habit or condition of the patient. VESICANTS. Syn. Epispastics; Epis- PASTiCA, Vesicantia, L. Substances which vesicate, or raise blisters. Among these are the cantharis or blistering fly, mezereon, croton