BOOT-TOP LIQUID—BORAX. 344 cilitate the ‘ getting on ’ of new or tight hoots, a little of it being rubbed on the insides of the backs, heels, and insteps.' BOOT-TOP LIQ'UID. Syn. Boot'-top com- posi"tion. There are numerous articles of this class extant, but, with few exceptions, they are most unchemical mixtures, not infre- quently containing ingredients which are either unnecessary, or opposed to the action of the rest. The following are examples :— Prep. a. White-top :—1. Oxalic acid and %vhite vitriol, of each, 1 oz.; water, 1^ pint; dissolve.—It is applied with a sponge, the leather having been previously washed with water; after a short time it is washed off with water, when the boot-tops ’ are either dried in a current of air, or by a gentle heat; they are lastly either polished with a brush, so as to appear like new leather, or they are left rough, as the case may require. 2. Sour milk, 1 quart; butter of antimony, cream of tartar, tartaric acid, and burnt alum, of each, 2 oz.; mix. 3. SoUr milk (skimmed), 3 pints; cream of tartar, 2 oz.; alum and oxalic acid, of each,l oz. 4. Alum, cream of tartar, magnesia, and oxalic acid, of each, 1 oz.; salt of sorrel and sugar of lead, of each, i oz.; water, 1 quart. The preceding are for white tops. 5. Beown-top :—Alum, annatto, and oxalic acid, of each, 1 oz.; isinglass and sugar of lead, of each ^ oz.; salt of sorrel, i oz.; water, 1 quart; boil for 10 minutes. BORACIC ACID (-ras'-). Syn. Bo"eic acid, Sed'ATIVE SALTf, S. S. OP VIT'ElOLf; ACIDUM BOEAC'ICTJM (-ras'-), L.; Acide BOEACIQUE, a. BOEIQTJE, Fr.; BoEAXSAUEE, &c., Ger. This is the only compound of boron with oxygen. The pure acid is obtained from common borax. That of commerce is extracted from the boracic acid lagoons of Tuscany. Prep. 1. Borax, 1 part; boiling water, 4 parts; dissolve, and add sulphuric acid until the solution acquires a distinctly acid reaction, for which purpose about i the weight of the borax will be required. As the solution cools, crystals of boeacic acid will be de- posited. These may be purified by placing them on a filter, and washing them with a little very cold water, followed hy re-solution in boiling water, and recrystallisation. Nearly pure. 2. As the last, but substituting hydrochloric acid for the ‘sulphuric acid,^ there ordered. Very nearly pure. 3. By exposing the product of the first crys- tallisation of either of the preceding formulae to heat in a platinum-crucible, and redissolving and recrystallising the ‘residuum.’ Chemi- cally pure. Used in analysis. Prop., ^'C. Odourless; bitter-tasted; dis- solves in 25 times its weight of cold water, and in 3 times its weight of boiling water; very soluble in alcohol, which then burns with a bright green flame; reddens litmus; browns turmeric-paper; (properties characteristic of this substance;) when strongly heated it forms a brittle glass (vit'eified boeacic acid) on cooling. The ‘ crystallised acid ’ contains 3 atoms, or 43-5g, of water. Its salts are called bo"eates. Uses. Boracic acid was once administered internally, in large doses, as an anodyne, anti- spasmodic, and sedative, but is now scarcely ever employed as a medicine. The crude acid is used in the manufacture of borax; the pure acid, in the manufacture of certain chemicals. B0"RATE. [Eng., Fr.] Syn. Bo"eas, L.; > Boeaxsauee salze, Ger. These may be formed by either digesting the hydrate of the base in a solution of the acid, with the assistance of heat, or from a solution of borax and a soluble salt of the base, by double decom- position. They are all decomposed by the stronger acids. Tests. The borates may be tested by di- gesting them in a slight excess of oil vitriol, evaporating the resulting solution to dryness, powdering the ‘ residuum,’ and dissolving it in alcohol; the resulting solution possesses the property of burning with a green flame if the sample examined was a ‘ borate,’ or contained a notable quantity of one. See Boeacic Acid. B0"RAX cEng., Fr., Ger., L., Ph. L. & E.) Syn. Bibo"eate of so'da, Bo"eate of s.^ , Sdbbo^eate of s.f. Gold soLDEEf*, Re- i fined'TINC'ALf*; So'd^ BIBO"eAS (Ph. L.), | S. bo"eas (Ph. D.), L.; Chetsocolle, &c., Fr.; Boeaxsauees nateon, &c., Ger. Com- mercial biborate of soda. Borax is obtained either by purifying native borate of soda (tinc'al, tinc'ae), or by saturating crude boracic acid with the alkali. It is never pre- pared on the small scale unless for chemical analysis. Prop. Crystals, six-sided prisms, which contain 10 equiv. of water, and effloresces in dry air; soluble in 20 parts of cold, and in 6 parts of boiling water; solution has an alka- line reaction on test-paper; by heat it loses its water of crystallisation, and at a higher temperature fuses to a glass-like substance (see below). Pur. This may be ascertained by deter- mining the quantity of sulphuric acid required to neutralise a given weight of the sample under examination, as indicated by litmus paper. Common salt and alum are frequently mixed with borax to lower the value. The first may be detected by a solution in hot water giving a curdy-white precipitate with nitrate of silver, soluble in ammonia; the last, by water of ammonia, giving a bulky-white pulverulent precipitate. The former must be distinguished from the white pulverulent pre- cipitate of borate of silver, which is thrown down from pure borax. Uses, S^’c. Borax is extensively employed as a flux for metals, for soldering, and in medicine. Internally, it is diuretic, sedative, emmenagogue, and refrigerant, in doses of 15 to 40 gr.; externally, made into a gargle for