BRANDY. 317 taken in quantity, proves gently laxative. It also forms an excellent manure, and, from con- taining the ainmoniaco-inagnesian phosphate, is especially adapted as a ‘ dressing^ for pota- toes. It is frequently mixed with flour, and made into bread (beax-beead), which is eaten by the poorer orders for economy, and by the higher classes because it is recommended by the faculty as being more wholesome than white wheaten-bread. BRAN'DY. Syn. Spie'itus Gal'licijs, S. vi'ni Gal'lici (-sI; Ph. L. & E.), A'qija L.; Eau-de-vie, Fr.; Beanntwein, Cognac, Ger., Bean'eywineI. A well-known spirituous liquor obtained by the distillation of the wine of grapes. The name is also often, though improperly, given to the spirit distilled from other liquors, and particularly from the fermented juice of fruits; but in this case, usually with some qualifying epithet. When first distilled, brandy, like other spi- rituous liquors, is colourless (white beandy), and continues so if kept in glass or stoneware; but if ‘ stored’ in casks, it gradually acquires a yellowish tint from the wood (pale beandy) . The deep colour that this spirit usually pos- sesses when it reaches the consumer, is im- parted to it by the addition of a little burnt- sugar colouring (caramel); and, occasionally, by a little red sunders wood, as well. Catechu or terra Japonica, in powder or solution, is also frequently added. The original intention was merely to imitate the appearance acquired by brandy from great age, when kept in wood; but in process of time the thing has come to be overdone. The natural colour which the spirit receives from the cask, however long it may be kept in it, never exceeds a light amber- tint, about equal to that of pale (uneoloured) .lamaica-rum; but the public taste has gra- dually become so thoroughly vitiated in this respect, that only a spirit of a lively and full ‘ brandy colour,’ as it is called (unless for a ])ale brandy,) will now please the masses. The consequence is that more ‘ colouring’ is com- monly added than is compatible with a rich appearance or a very fine flavour. The brandies most esteemed in England are imported from France, and are those of Cog- nac^ and Armagnac, the preference being gene- rally given to the former. The brandies of Rochelle and Bordeaux come next in quality; while those obtained from Portugal, Spain, and Italy, are very inferior. Thus the dif- ferent brandies of commerce are readily distin- guishable from each other by an experienced spirit-taster. The constituents of pure brandy are alcohol and water, and small quantities of volatile oil, acetic acid, acetic ether, cenanthic ether, co- louring matter, and tannin. It is from the presence of the last six of these substances that the spirit derives its characteristic smell and flavour. The per-centaye richness of 1 Heiicii tlic best ‘ Frencli brandy’ is commonly termed Cognac (kone'-yak), Cogniac, or C.-brandy. brandy in alcohol varies from 48 to 55 per cent. When first imported it is generally 1 or 2 overproof, but its strength decreases by age, and by the time it is usually taken from the bond-store for sale, it is seldom stronger than 3 or 4 under proof. Pure brandies of the best quality, even when new, seldom exceed proof, and are generally a little below it. The com- mon practice in France is to add spirit of wine and colouring to raise the strength of the liquor, and fit it for the British market, before exporting it. This is done to any extent desired by the English purchaser, and the quantity and prices of the substances so added are regularly set out in the invoice. When the purchaser is not well acquainted with the trade, and desires a strong spirit at a low rate, the common practice is to sell him brandy so mixed as genuine. The very finest brandies ave- rage from 5 to 10 u.p., and are never stronger than 2 u.p. They then contain more than ^ their weight of water; and from having been rapidly distilled at a proportionately high boiling point, they ‘ come over’ more fully charged with essential oil, and the other vola- tile and fragrant principles of the grape, and thus possess in a greater degree that peculiar aroma and flavour for which they are so much esteemed. French brandy or wine distilled at a low temperature, in a water bath, yields a very pure, but almost flavourless spirit. The quality and flavour of the brandy im- ported from France vary, and often con- siderably, from that which is drunk at the best tables on the Continent. This principally arises from it being prepared, or, as it is tech- nically termed, ‘ made up,’ for the London market; which means ‘ lowering’ it by the addition of plain spirit, colouring, S(c., as above referred to. The common strength at which foreign brandy is sold in England is 11 or 12jj u.p.; when weaker than b? u.p., it is seizable by the excise. The strength at which it is sold and ‘permitted’ in the wholesale trade is generally 10 u.p., to which it is reduced by adding water; and it is never weaker than 12 u.p., unless a different strength has been agreed on at the time of sale. In large quantities, and from bond, the strength, of course, depends much upon the age and quality of the spirit; a fine old brandy being, per- haps, 8 or 10 u.p., while one of the last year’s vintage, of a commoner quality, may be as strong as 2 u.p., or even 1 u.p. These matters are familiar to every experienced brandy dealer. In France there are several varieties of brandy, which are known by names des(;rip- tive of their qualities, source, and strengths:— “Eau-de-vie superieure” is obtained from pale white wines, by skilful distillation, and is remarkable for its rich and delicate flavour. It forms the finest variety of Cognac beandy, both ‘ white’ and '■pale’ of the English drinker ; being seldom artificially coloured. Its deepest tint, though long kept in w'ood, never exceeds