Ill ALLOY. Table of the principal alloys—continued. Names. Bath-METAL Bell-metal Beass Beitannia metal Beonze Cannon-metal Dutch oold Fusible metal Geeman silvee Gold {standard) „ {old standard) Gun-metal Mosaic gold Oe-molu Pewtee {common) ,» (best) PoT-METAL, Cock-metal Queen’s metal Shot-metal Silvee {standard) SOLDEE Speculum-metal Steeeotype-metal Tombac, Red tombac Tutania Type-metal White coppee {Packfong; White tombac)... Combining metai.s. Copper and zinc. Copper and tin. Copper and zinc. Tin with antimony, copper, and bis- muth. Tin and copper. Tin and copper. Copper and zinc. Bismuth, lead, and tin. Copper, nickel, and zinc, with, sometimes, a little iron and tin. Gold with copper. Gold with copper and silver. See Cannon-metal. Copper and zinc. Tin and lead. Tin with antimony, bismuth., and cop- per. Copper and lead, with, sometimes, a little zinc. Tin with antimony, bismuth, and copper. Lead wdth a little arsenic. Silver and copper. Tin and lead. Tin and copper. Lead, antimony, and bismuth. Copper and zinc. See Britannia metal. Lead and antimony. Copper and arsenic. Prop., 8^c. Alloys generally possess charac- teristics unshared by their component metals. Thus ; copper and zinc form beass, w'hich has j a difterent density, hardness, and colour to I either of its constituents. Whether the metals i tend to unite in equivalent proportions, or in any definite ratio, is still undetermined. The evidence aftbrded by the natural alloys of gold and silver, and by the phenomena accompany- ing the cooling of several alloys from the state of fusion, goes far to prove that such is the case. (Rudberg.) The subject is, however, one of considerable difficulty, as metals and metallic j compounds are generally soluble in each other, I and unite by simple fusion and contact. That ; they do not combine indifferently with each j other, but exercise a species of elective affinity ! not dissimilar to other bodies, is clearly shown by the homogeneity and superior quality of many alloys in which the constituent metals are in atomic proportion. The variation of the specific gravity and melting points of alloys from the mean of those of their component metals, also affords strong evidence of a chemical change having taken place. Thus, alloys generally melt at lower temperatures than those required for their separate metals. They also usually possess more tenacity and hardness than the mean of their constituents; but their malleability, ductility, and power of resisting oxygen, is generally diminished. The alloy formed of iivo brittle metals is always brittle; that of a brittle and a metal, generally so; and even two ductile metals sometimes unite to form a brittle compound. The alloys formed of metals having different fusing points are usually malleable whilst cold, and brittle whilst hot. The action of the air on alloys is generally less than on their simple metals, unless the former are heated. A mixture of 1 part of tin and 3 parts of lead is scarcely acted on at common temperatures; but at a red heat it readily takes fire, and continues to burn for some time like a piece of bad turf. In like manner a mixture of tin and zinc, W'hen strongly heated, decomposes both moist air and steam with almost fearful rapidity. The specific gravity of alloys is never the arithmetical mean of that of their constituents, as commonly taught; and, in many cases, considerable condensation or expansion occurs. When there is a strong affinity between two metals, the density of their alloy is generally greater than the calculated mean; and vice versa; as may be seen in the following Table;—