406 CATHETERS—CAUSTIC, the tincture, after filtration, is evaporated to dryness by a gentle heat. Prop., 8fc. A reddish-coloured, uncrys- tallizable mass; having a peculiar odour, and a bitter, nauseous taste; freely soluble in both water and alcohol, and strongly cathartic. Two or three gr. cause nausea, griping, and purging. It has been proposed to employ it, combined with aromatics, as a cathartic. CATH'ETERS. Small tubes introduced into the bladder for the purpose of drawing off its contents. They may be regarded as hollow bougies. Prep. 1. A piece of smooth catgut, or steel wire, bent to the proper shape, is coated with melted wax. When cold, it is dipped repeat- edly into an ethereal solution of India rubber, until a sufficient thickness is obtained, after which it is dried by a gentle heat, and then boiled in water to melt out the wax, and to allow the catgut to be withdrawn. A solution of India rubber in bisulphuret o f carbon is now generally employed instead of an ethereal solution, 2. From slips of India rubber, as directed under Bougies. 3. A smooth tissue of silk is woven over a bent wire, and then coated with a surface of India rubber, or elastic varnish, and finished off as before. See Bougies. CAU"DLE. Gruel enriched by various addi- tions, Prep, 1. Thick oatmeal gruel mixed with about one half its weight of good mild ale (made hot), and as much^ sugar, and mace, nutmeg, or ginger, as will make it agreeable. 2. To the last add an egg, well beaten. 3. Sugar, 3 or 4 lumps; hot water, a table- spoonful; dissolve; add 1 egg; beat well together; further add a glass of wine and a little nutmeg or ginger ; mix well, and stir the mixture into good gruel (hot), f pint. Uses, 6(c. A nourishing and restorative mixture during convalescence, much used among certain classes after accouchement. It is an excellent domestic remedy for colds, &c., unaccompanied with fever; for which purpose it should be taken on retiring to rest at night, preceded by a dose of castor oil during the day. CAUS'TIC. Syn. Caus'ticum, Eschaeot'!- CUM, L, A substance that corrodes or destroys the texture of organized bodies. This action is popularly termed “ burning.” The principal caustics are nitrate of silver, caustic potassa, a mixture of caustic potassa and quicklime, sulphate of copper, red oxide of mercury, verdigris, tincture of sesquichloride of iron, chloride of zinc, chloride of antimony, nitric acid, and acetic acid. Use. Caustics are employed to remove ex- crescences, morbid growths, granulations, &c., as corns, warts, and proud flesh; and to open issues, abscesses, &c. The first, second, and fourth are applied by gently rubbing them on the part previously moistened with ivater; the third is commonly made into a paste, with rectified spirit or glycerine, before application; red oxide of mercury and verdigris (in the form of powder) are often sprinkled over foul and indolent ulcers; whilst the acids and other liquid caustics are applied with a feather, camel-hair pencil, or glass rod. The same applies to the liquid preparations below. In all cases care should be taken to confine the application to the affected part. Ammoni'acal Caustic. See Ointments, and Gondeet’s Caustic (below). Antimo"nial Caustic. Sy7i. Causticum an- timonia'le, L. Chloride of antimony. Arsenical Caustic. Sy^i. Causticum ae- senica'le, C. aesenio'sum, C. a. compos'i- TUM, L. Prep. 1. See Plunket’s Caustic. 2. (Cutan. Hosp.) Calomel, 2^ oz.; red suU ])huret of mercury, 1 dr.; arsenious acid, 1 dr, to 2 dr. 3. (Van Mons.) Arsenious acid, 6 dr.; dragon’s blood, 2 dr.; animal charcoal, 1^ dr.; cinnabar, 3 oz. 4. (Ratier.) Arsenious acid, 1 part; kino, 8 parts; cinnabar, 16 parts. The ingredients of the last three must be separately reduced to fine powder, and then carefully mixed. They are favorite applications on the Con- tinent, in cases of cancer, cancerous sores, obstinate lepra, &c. They are either dusted over the part, or are made into a paste with 1 mucilage or the saliva, and applied like an ointment on a piece of rag or lint; due caution being observed, and the effects watched. The last is much used in the French hospitals. Canquoin’s Caustic. See Zinc Caustic (below). Cantharldes Caustic. Sy7i. Causticum can- tuae'idis, L. Prep. 1. Powdered caiithai'ides^ J made into a paste with conce^itrated ccetiA]^ acid. .'I 2. (Cutan. Hosp.) Thnnin, 1 oz.; cantharidesj * (powdered), 2 oz.; strong acetic acid, 8 oz. digest a week, and strain. Blisters. Common Caustic. See Potassa (Fused), and^ '| Potassa with Lime. ||| Duville’s Caustic. Prep. 1. Aloes, 5 oz.; proof spirit, 10 oz.; oil of vitriol, 6 oz.; mix. j 2. Aloes (in powder), 2^ oz.; rum, pint; mix, and the next day add, oil of vitriol, 1 oz. A favorite caustic in veterinary practice; es. pecially in foot-rot. Eilho’s Caustic. Pi'ep. From caustic po- tassa, 2 parts; quicklime (in powder), 1 part; melt together in a ladle, mix well, and pour it into small leaden tubes, the size of a large swan-quill. When cold, coat each piece with melted bees’ wax, to exclude the air. Used as a strong caustic in veterinary practice. It is applied like nitrate of silver. Golden Caustic. Syn. Caustic of chloeide OF GOLD; Causticum aue'eum, C. aue'ii CHLOe'idi, L. Prep. 1. (Recamier.) Tci'- chloride of gold, G gr.; nitro-fiydrochloric acid, 1 oz.; dissolve.