688 GILDING. nished with a piece of hematite or polished steel. (See below). Distemper aiLDiNa. This is applied to Avood, j)laster, marble, &c. It is commonly performed in this country by giving the wood, first, a coating of good size, and next, several successive coats of size thickened with finely powdered whiting, Spanish white, or })laster of Paris, until a good face is produced; observ- ing to let each coat become quite dry, and to rub it perfectly smooth with fine glass-paper, before the application of the following" one. 'When the proper ‘face’ is obtained, the sur- face is thinly and evenly gone over with gold size, and when this is nearly dry, the gold leaf is applied, and afterwards burnished with an agate or a dog’s tooth. The process, as adopted by the Parisian artists, who greatly excel in this species of gilding, is very complicated, and is divided into at least 17 distinct opera- tions, each of which they declare to be essen- tial to its excellence. Electeo-gildi>'g. See Electrotype. Grecian gilding. In this variety sal am- moniac and corrosive sublimate, equal parts, are dissolved in nitric acid, and a solution of gold made with this menstruum ; after slight concentration, the liquid is applied to the sur- face of silver, which immediately becomes black, but on being heated exhibits a rich gilded surface. Japanner’s gilding. The surface is co- vered w’ith oil size thinned w'ith spirits of tur- pentine, and gold, in powuler, is gently dabbed on with a puff of wash leather. This gives the appearance of ‘ frosted gold.’ A coating of varnish is next given, followed by exposure to a gentle heat in the ‘ stove.’ Leaf gilding. This term is commonly ap- plied to the gilding of paper, vellum, &c., by applying leaf gold to the surface, previously prepared with a coating of gum water, size, or while of egg. It is usually burnished w ith an agate or a dog’s tooth. Mechanical gilding. See Chemical gild- ing {above). Mercurial gilding. See Wash gilding {below). Oil gilding. This species of gilding may be divided into several operations. The fol- lowing are the abridged instructions of a Pa- risian artist on the subject:—1. The surface is prepared by a coating of white-lead in dry- ing oil.—2. Another ccat is given, made w'ith calcined white lead or massicot, ground in lin- seed oil and turpentine. 3 or 4 coats of this mixture are often given, at intervals of at least 24 hours, observing to carefully smooth off each coat with pumice stone or shave grass be- fore the application of the following ones.— 3. The ‘ Gold Colour,’ or paint, is next applied. It is usually very adhesive gold size, or the bottom of the pot or dish in which painters w'ash their bnishes. Eor this purpose it is thoroughly ground and strained.—4. When the gold colour becomes partially dry and suf- ficiently tenacious, the gold-leaf \s, applied, and pressed on with a w'ad of cotton-wool or a soft brush. It is now left for several days to harden.—5. A coat of spirit varnish is next given, and the object is cautiously passed over a chafing-dish of charcoal, observing to avoid stopping the motion of the piece whilst doing so, as the work w'ould then become discoloured and blistered.—6. The work is ‘ finished oft’’ wnth pale oil varnish. For out-door gilding and common u'ork, the varnishing process is gene- rally omitted. This species of gilding is ap- plied to woodwork, plaster, metal, &c. Varnish gilding. This is a mere variety of oil gilding, applied to equipages, furniture, mirror and picture frames, &c., the surface being highly varnished and polished before it i-eceives the size or gold colour ; and after the gilding has become quite dry, a ccat of spirit varnish, fumed with the chafing dish as above, is applied, followed by 2, 3, or more coats of the best copal varnish, at intervals of 3 or 4 days each. The wdicle is, lastly, carefully polished with tripoli and water. Wash gilding. Amalgam g.. Mercurial G., Water g. This cons'sts in the application of a thin coating of amalgam of gold to the metallic surface {brass, bronze, or copper) to be gilded, and the subsequent volatilization of the mercury by heat. It is the usual method of gilding articles of copper and its alloys, and possesses great beauty and durability wdien skilfully executed. The occupation is, how^- ever, an unhealthy one, owing to the continual exposure of the workman to the fumes of mer- cury. The furnace invented by M. D’Arcet obviates this evil, as the whole of the volati- , lized mercury is carried oft’, and again con- , densed for further use. It should therefore i be adopted by every water-gilder who studies j economy and the health of those in his em- ' ploy. The process of water-gilding consists In se- veral distinct operations, and can only be suc- cessfully performed by those who have been schooled in the art by an apprenticeship to the trade. It would, therefore, be waste of space to enter into details here. Formulai for several of the articles employed for the pur- pose will bo found in their alphabetical places in this wmrk. Water gilding. See above. Among the applications of the process of gilding that deserve a separate notice are the following: — The gold letters and figures on the covers of BOOKS are thus formed:—Gum mastic, in fine powder, is dusted over the surface to be gilded; an iron or brass tool bearing the design upon its face is then heated to a j roper tempera- ture, and gently pressed upon a piece of leaf gold, which slightly adheres to it; the two are then transferred to the cover, and the tool is gently pressed on it, by which means the mastic softens, and retains the gold. The loose gold and powdered mastic are then dusted oft’ with