LINCTUS—LINEN, 838 weight of water, with frequent agitation for an hour or longer; the mixture is then di- luted with thrice its volume of water, thrown upon a filtei’, and the undissolved portion washed, dried, ignited, and weighed. This weight indicates the per-centage of clay and SILICA or SAND ; and the loss that of the lime, MAGNESIA, and lEON, present in the substance examined. In most cases these resalts will be sufficient to show the quality of the lime- stone for the purpose of making mortar or cement. 2. The filtrate and the washings are mixed together, and ammonia is added in excess; the bulky, reddish-brown precipitate is collected, washed, dried, ignited, and weighed. This gives the per-centage of sesqiiioxide oe IRON. 3. The filtrate, &e., from (2) is then treated with oxalate of ammonia, and the quantity of LIME determined in the manner described un- der the head of Lime. 4. The liquid filtered from 'the precipitate in (3) is boiled for some time with carbonate of potassa until ammoniacal fumes are no longer evolved; the precipitate is then collected on a filter, washed with hot water, dried, and strongly ignited for 3 or 4 hours, and lastly, weighed. This gives WiQ per-centage of mag- nesia. LINC'TUS. [L., Eng.] Syn. Loch, Lo- HOCH, Lincthee, Lambative ; LOOCH, Er. A medicine of the consistence of honey, intended to be licked off a spoon. This form of medi- cine is well adapted to females and children, but is not much used in England at the pre- sent time. Those employed in modern phar- macy and prescribing are included under the heads Coneection, Conserve, or Elec- tuary. The dose, when it is not otherwise stated, is a teaspoonful occasionally. Caca'o Linctus. Syn. Linctus cacao, L. ; Creme de Teonchin, Fr. Prep. From cocoa-butter, 2 oz.; white sugar (in powder), syrup of capillaire, and syrup of tolu, of each, 1 oz.; mix. Demulcent and pectoral; in coughs, sore throats, hoarseness, &c.i[ Common Linctus. Syn. Lohoch com- mune (Ph. E. 1744), L. Prep. From oil of almonds and syrup of tolu, of each, 1 oz.; pow- dered white sugar, 2 dr. As the last. Cough Linctus. Syn. Pectoral linctus; Linctus pectoralis,L. Prep. 1. (Dr.Latham.) Compound ipecacuanha powder (Dover’s pow- der), ^ dr.; compound tragacanth powder, 2 dr.; syrup of tolu, confection of hips, and sim- ple oxymel, of each, 1 oz. Pose. 1 teaspoonful, 3 or 4 times a day. “ This linctus has been extensively used, as a remedy for coughs, in the West-end of London, having been found to be a safe and generally efficacious remedy.” (Redwood.) The preceding as well as the fol- lowing are also useful preparations. Demui'cent Linctus. Syn, Linctus de- : MULCEN9, L.; Loocii DE Teonchin, Fr. j Prep. From oil of almonds, syrup of capillaire, • manna, and cassia pulp, of each, 2 oz.; pow- dered gum tragacanth, 20 gr.; orange-fiower ivater, 2 fl. oz. As the last. The above is the quantity for two days, which is as long as it will keep. Emollient Linctus. Syn. Oily emulsion ; Lohoch oleosum, Emulsio oleosa, L. ; Looch huileux, Fr. Prep. (P. Cod.) Oil of almonds, powdered gum, and orange-fiower water, of each, 4 dr.; syrup of marshmallow, 1 oz.; water, 3 fl. oz. or q. s.; for an emulsion. In troublesome coughs. Expec'torant Linctus. Syn. Linctus ex- PECTORANS, Lohoch e., L. Prep. 1. Oxymel of squills, confection of hips, syrup of marsh- mallow, and mucilage of gum arabic (thick), equal parts. Demulcent and expectorant. 2. (Dr. Copland.) Oil of almonds and syrup of lemons, of each, 1 fl. oz.; powdered ipecacu- anha, 6 gr.; confection of hips, 1 oz.; compound powder of tragacanth, 3 dr, 3. (Zanetti.) Kermes mineral, 4 gr.; manna, 6 oz.; oil of almonds, syrup of squills, and sijrup of senega, of each, 2 dr. Laxative, de- mulcent, and expectorant. The above are useful in hoarseness, tickling coughs, sore throats, &c. Pec’toral Linctus. Syn. Fox lungs ; Linc- tus PECTORALis, Lohoch e pulmone vul- PIUM, L. Prep. From spermaceti and Spanish juice, of each, 8 oz.; water, q. s. to soften the liquorice; make a thin electuary, and add of honey, 3 lb.; oil of aniseed, 1 oz.; mix well. A popular and excellent demulcent in coughs. It formerly contained the herb ^fox lungs,’ but spermaceti is now substituted for that article. Tur'pentine Linctus. Syn. Linctus stimu- LANS, L. terebinthin.®, Lohoch ANTHEL- MINTICUM, L. Prep. (Recambier.) Oil of turpentine, 2 dr.; honey of roses, 3 oz.; mix. Dose. A teaspoonful, night and morning, followed by a draught of any weak liquid; in worms, more especially tape-worm. White Linctus. Syn. Linctus albus, Mis- TUEA ALBA, LOHOCH ALBUM, L,; LoOCH BLANC, Fr. Prep. (P. Cod.) Jordan almonds, 4| dr,; bitter almonds, ^ dr.; blanch them by steeping them in hot water and removing the skins, white sugar, -|oz.; gum tragacanth, 20 gr.; beat to a smooth paste, and further add, of oil of almonds and orange-fiower ivater, of each, 4 dr.; q^nre water, 4 11. oz. A plea- sant demulcent in tickling coughs. LIN'EN. Syn. Linteum, L. Linen is a textile fabric made of the liber-fibres of the Linum usitatissimum, or common fiax, a plant which from time immemorial has been culti- vated for this purpose. It is remarkable for the smoothness and softness of its texture, and is hence highly esteemed in temperate climates as an elegant and agreeable article of clothing to be worn next the skin. Its fibres are better conductors of heat, more porous, and more at- tractive of moisture, than those of cotton, which_ render it less adapted for body linen in