BEE-BREAD—BEEF. 291 countries where European colonies have been established, and where it is now acclimated. (Latreille.) Thus, it was introduced into Boston, by the English, in 1670; and from New England it soon spread by natural in- crease and migration, and the attention of agriculturists, over the whole continent.^ Nat. hist., SfC. There is said to be nearly 300 varieties of the genus apis, of which i England has considerably above 100. The wild bee lives in the hollows of old trees ; the domesticated bee, in hives, in societies called * swarms.’ Each hive contains—Ifemaleov queen bee, 800 to 1000 males or drones, andfrom 15,000 to 30,000 or upwards of workers or neuters. [Those desirous of studying the habits and economy of bees are referred to the works of Huber and Latreille; and for their management to Mr. Cobbett's little book on the subject.] ! See Apiaey, Apis, Hive, Honey, Wax, &c. BEE'-BREAD. The pollen of flowers col- lected by bees as food for their young. BEE'-GLUE. Syn. Pkop'olis, L., Fr. The re- sinous matter with which bees cement the combs to the hives, and close up and repair the cells. BEECH (beche). Syn. Beech'-teee ; Fa'- GFS, L.; Hetee, H. commun, Fr.; Buche, : Gemeine b., Ger. The fa'gus sylvat'ica (Linn ), ! a magnificent English forest-tree, of the nat. ord. Amentacese (DC ). Fruit (beech'-mast. B.-NUTs), used to feed swine, and, sometimes, in obstinate headaches, and in gravel-com- plaints ; yields oil by expression; inner-bark, occasionally used in hectic fevers. Wood (beech, b.-wood), handsome and very hard,“ but brittle and perishable, and particularly liable to become worm-eaten; its durability ! is increased by steeping it, when fresh-hewn, ! for sometime in water; chiefly usedhy cabinet- makers, coach-builders, millwrights, and turners; and, sometimes, by coopers; also ^burntfor charcoal.^ SeeBis'TEE, Oils (Fixed), Tab, &c. i BEEF (befe). Syn. Chaiee de B(EIJP, Du BCEUF,** Fr.; Rindpleisch, &c., Ger.; Bu'- buia, Ca"eo bo'vis, &c., L. The flesh of bovine animals generally; but appr., only that of the domestic ox, cow, or bull. ' t^ual. Good beef is highly wholesome and nutritious; and is well adapted to persons of good appetite, or that labour or take much exercise. For the delicate, especially those labouring under debility, partial anaemia, I amenorrhoea, and similar ailments, it is, per- haps, superior to every other kind of animal i food. If cooked so as to be left full of gravy, lit sits lightly on the stomach, and its fat proves even more digestible than that of either veal or mutton. I * When green it is the hardest of Britisli timbers. I * Tiie coprKR-BKECH and purple reecti, of orir jPlantations, are mere seedling varieties of ragus sglvatica. KliOudon.) The sea'-si1)E b. is the cxostemm'a co-riban im I Of botanists. , * In compound wor.Is ‘bif’ is also used; as bifleck, “eel-steak; roast-beef; &c. Choice.—Ox-BEEF is known by having a fine smooth, open grain, a lively and agreeable red colour, and a tender texture, with the fat of a pleasing pale whitish-yellow or but slightly yellow, and the suet white and hard. When fine and well-fed, the flesh is inter- grained or marbled with fat.—Cow-beef has a closer grain than ox-beef, and the lean is of a deeper red.—Bull-beef is closer still, the fat dark, hard, and skinny, the lean of a deep coarse red, and it has a strong smell and flavour.—Heifee-beef resembles ox-beef, ex- cept^ in being smaller, often an advantage; but it lacks the rich flavour of the flesh of one of Giblet’s full-grown oxen. Joints, managern., S^c. Beefis CUBED, SALTED, and DEESSED, in all the ways common to the other meats; the only care necessary being in the selection of the appropriate joint or part. The ribs, sirloin, rump, and veiny piece, are the proper joints for boasting- or baking. The buttock or round, edge-bone, second round or mouse-buttock, brisket, flank, shoulder or leg- of-mutlon piece, and the clod, those generally BOILED, STEWED, or SALTED. The choicest STEAKS are cut from the middle of the rump ; the next best from the veiny piece, or from the chuck-rib. In summer, excellent ones may also be cut from the shoulder. In France, steaks cut from the sirloin (without bone) are preferred to all others, and are exceedingly delicate and tender. The neck may be either ‘ stewed ’ or ‘ boiled,’ and is much used to make soup and gravy. In the country, the round, when fine, and well-hung, is also often roasted or baked. According to Miss Acton, “ the flncst part of the sirloin is the chump-end, which contains the larger portion of the fillet; of the ribs, the middle ones.’’^ Beef is in season during the whole year, but is finest—when it is most relished—during the winter months, when, owing to the tem- perature of the air, it may be ‘ hung ’ a long time, and thus increased in tenderness and flavour. See Ox, Baking, Boiling, Essences, Roasting, Salting, Tea, &c. (also below). Alamode' Beef. Syn. Bceuf A la mode, Fr. The true ' beef a la mode ’ is made as follows; and is not a mere kind of ‘rich stew,’ such as is daily sold under the name in the ‘ cook- shops ’ of London:— 1. (M. Alexis Soyer.) Rump, sirloin, or rib of beef, (about) 12 lb.; lard it through with 10 or 12 long pieces of fat bacon ; put it into an earthen pan with a calf’s foot, 4 onions, 2 carrots (sliced), a bunch of parsley, 2 bay leaves, 2 sprigs of thyme, 2 cloves, ^ teaspoonful of pepper, 1 do. of salt, 4 wine-glassfuls of sherry, 4 do. of water, and 1 lb. of streaky bacon (cut into small squares) ; place on the cover, make it air-tight round the edges with a little flour- paste, and expose it in a moderate oven for about 4 hours. Dish up with the ‘vegetables’ and ‘ bacon ’ placed tastefully round it, the ‘gravy ’ (skimmeJ) being poured over all. (Jr * “ Uodurn CookergLongmau & Co., 1800.