881 MANGANESE. 1 f a d n :s d a a- ). 'yi 1 !d d, in in id of n- i) en en at i. ,!• ■y ;le )1» on aat lit, ,lsi ml llj it 'eri aic, 'or- out jUi- ii'O- )ES‘ oin- E5II jar* tilt dtl 3Sii| formula MnO, is most conveniently prepared by beating carbonate of manganese to white- ness in a porcelain tube, through which a stream of hydrogen is passing. It rapidly oxi- dizes by exposure to the air, possesses strong basic properties, and readily ^ssolves in the liquid acids, forming the ordinary salts of manganese, many of which have a beautiful pink colour. On the addition of alkalies to so- lutions of these compounds, hydeated peot- OXIDE or MANGANESE (MANGANOUS HYDEATE j MANGANESii OXYDUM hydeatum) falls as a white powder, which speedily absorbs oxygen and becomes brown unless entirely excluded from the air. 2. Proto-sesquiox'ide of Manganese. Syn. Ked oxide of manganese. This oxide, con- taining Mn304, is found native as ^ hausman- NiTE,’ and is produced by heating to whiteness the binoxide or the sesquioxide, also by exposing the protoxide or carbonate to a red heat in an ' open vessel. It is of a reddish-brown colour, j and communicates the tint of the amethyst to melted glass or borax. It does not form salts.' 3. Sesquioxide of Manganese. This oxide (Mu203) occurs native as ‘ beaunite,’ and in the hydrated state (manganic dydeate) as ‘MANGANITE.’ It is produced artificially by exposing the hydrated protoxide to the air, and forms the principal part of the residuum left in the retort when the black oxide is heated to moderate redness in the process of making oxygen gas. It is brown or black, according to its origin or mode of preparation; and is a feeble base, isomorphous with alumina. 4. Intermediate Oxide of Manganese. (Mn^O-, or Mn^Og -f 2Mn02.) This occurs native as ‘vaevicite.’ It much resembles the binoxide, but is harder and more brilliant. 5. Binoxide of Manganese. Syn. Peeoxide OF MANGANESE, BlACK OXIDE OF M., MaN- ganeseJ ; Manganesii BINOXYDUM (Pll. L.), M. OXYDUM (Ph. E.), M. PEEOXYDUM, L. A compound of oxygen and manganese, having the formula MnO^. It is the only oxide of manganese that is directly employed in the arts. It is a very plentiful mineral produc- tion, and is found in great abundance in some parts of the West of England. The manganese of the shop is prepared by washing, to remove the earthy matter, and grinding in mills. The blackest samples are esteemed the best. It is | diielly used to supply oxygen GAS, and in tlie ' nanufacture of glass and chloeine ; in dyeing, ! vnd to form the salts of manganese. It has | oceu occasionally employed in medicine, chiefly | 3xteriially, in itch and porrigo, made into an ! hntment with lard. It has been highly re- | ‘ommended by Dr. Erigeler in scrofula. Others lave employed it as an alterative and tonic vith variable success. When slowly intro- luccd into the system during a lengthened leriod, it is said to produce paralysis of the notor nerves. (Dr. Coupar.) Dose. 3 to 12 or more, thrice daily, made into pills. Pur. Native binoxide of manganese (py- eolusite) is usually contaminated with variable proportions of argillaceous matter, carbonate of lime, oxide of iron, silica, and sulphate of baryta, all of which lower its value as a source of oxygen, and for the preparation of chlorine. The richness of this ore can, therefore, be only determined by an assay for its principal in- gredient. (See below.) “ It is soluble in hy- drochloric acid, evolving chlorine.” (Ph. L.) “Muriatic acid, by the aid of heat, dissolves it almost entirely, disengaging chlorine; heat disengages oxygen.” (Ph. E.) Assay. There are several methods adopted for this purpose, among which the following recommend themselves as being the most ac- curate and convenient. 1. A portion of the mineral being reduced to very fine powder, 50 gr. of it are put into the little apparatus employed for the analysis of carbonates described at page 397, together with about \ fl. oz. of cold water and 100 gr. of strong hydrochloric acid, the latter contained in the little tube {b); 50 gr. of crystallized oxalic acid are then added, the cork carrying the chloride of calcium tube fitted in, and the whole quickly and accurately weighed or coun- terpoised; the apparatus is next inclined so that the acid contained in the small tube may be mixed with the other contents of the flask, and the reaction of the ingredients is pro- moted by the application of a gentle heat; the disengaged chlorine resulting from the mutual decomposition of the hydrochloric acid and the binoxide of manganese converts the oxalic acid into carbonic acid gas, which is dried in its passage through the chloride of calcium tube before it escapes into the air. As soon as the reaction is complete, and the residual gas has been driven ofi’ by a momentary ebullition, the apparatus is allowed to cool, when it is again carefully and accurately weighed. The loss of weight in grains, if doubled, at once indicates t\\Q per-centage rich- ness of the mineral examined in pure binoxide of manganese; or, more correctly, every grain of carbonic acid gas evolved represents 1'982 gr. of the binoxide. 2. (Fresenius and Will.) The apparatus employed is the ‘ alkalimeter’ figured at page 34. The operation is similar to that adopted for the assay of alkalies, and is a modification of the oxalic acid and sulphuric acid test for manganese, originally devised by M. Berthier. The standard weight of binoxide of manganese recommended to be taken by Fresenius and Will is 2’98 grammes, along with 6’5 to 7 grammes of neutral oxalate of potassa. The process, with quantities altered to adapt it for employment in the laboratories of these coun- tries, is as follows :—Binoxide of manganese (in very fine powder), 50 gr.; neutral oxalate of potassa (in powder), 120 gr.; these are put into the flask A (see engr., p. 34), along with sufficient water to about l-4th fill it; the flasks A and D (the latter containing the sul- phuric acid) are then corked air-tight, and, 5G