OILS (FIXED). 954 ment, since it increases its combustibility and its illuminative power. Oils por medical purposes, as castor oil, COD-LIVER oil, &c., must not be subjected to any process beyond mere clarification by sub- sidence, filtration through Canton flannel or porous paper, or, at the utmost, washing with warm water, as otherwise their active and valuable properties, if not wholly removed, will be considerably lessened. See Filtra- tion. Pur. The fixed oils vary greatly in their value, and hence the constant inducement which leads the unprincipled dealer to adulte- rate the more expensive ones with those of a similar character, but of an inferior kind or grade. Various methods are adopted to de- tect these frauds, among which the following- are the most valuable of those capable of general application. Others referring to indi- vidual oils will be found under the respective heads. 1. (From the odour.) The method of ap- plying this test is to heat a few drops of the oil under examination in a small porcelain, pla- tinum, or silver Spoon or capsule (a watch- glass answers well), and to carefully compare the odour evolved with that arising from a known pure sample of the same kind and quality of the oil similarly treated. The odour of the two, when each is pure, is precisely alike, and immediately suggests the plant or animal from which it has been obtained. The presence of linseed, nut, rape, seal, TRAIN, or WHALE OIL, is thus readily de- tected, and the imperfections of the sample, even if pure, rendered much more percep- tible. 2. (From the density)—a. According to M. Penot, every oil supposed to come from the same plant, or the same animal, has Us own particular density, which, at the same tempe- rature, never deviates more than a few thou- sandths. To apply this test, the relative den- sity or specific gravity of the sample must be determined. This may be done by means of a thousand-grain bottle or an ordinary ‘ areo- meter^ ; or, more conveniently, by an ‘ elaio- METER^ or ‘ oleometer,’ Constructed and gra- duated for the purpose. * Fischer’s elaiome- ter’ or ‘ oil-balance’ is much employed on the Continent for this purpose, and is a very useful instrument. On the large scale, the weight of an accurately measured imperial gallon of the oil may be taken. b. M. Laurot, an eminent Parisian chemist, a short time since observed that the variations of the density of an oil from adulteration is rendered much more apparent when it is ex- amined in a heated state. To render this dis- covery practically available, he plunges an‘e/aio- meter,’ graduated for the given temperature, into a small tin cylinder nearly filled with the oU, and then places this in a vessel containing boiling water; as soon as the whole has ac- quired a uniform temperature, he observes the point on the scale of the instrument at which it floats. This point for — Colza oil is 0® Fish oil 83® Poppy oil 124® Hemp-seed oil 136® Linseed oil 210® c. By employing a specific-gravity bottle or small glass globe, fitted with a stopper in which is hermetically fixed a capillary tube of about 8 or 9 inches in length, we may apply the above principle of M. Laurot with the greatest accuracy. This little apparatus is filled with the oil, and then immersed in boiling water for a sufficient length of time for it to acquire that temperature; it is then removed and weighed. The smallest adulteration is in this way immediately detected. When the density of the given sample has been taken, and the name of the oil used to adulterate it is known, the quantity of the latter present maybe approximately determined from the specific gravities by the common me- thod of alligation.^ 3. {Sulphuric-acid test.)—a. Heidenreich was the first person who gave a useful and ge- neral application to the reactions which occur when oil of vitriol is mixed with the fatty oils. As soon as these substances are placed toge- ther, very intense chemical action commences, the temperature of the mixture rises, and the mass becomes coloured. These changes are sufficiently varied in the case of the different oils to furnish us with the means of identifying many of them, and of determining their pu- rity. The method of M. Heidenreich is to lay a plate of white glass over a sheet of white paper; on the glass he places 10 or 15 drops of oil, and then adds to it a small drop of con- centrated sulphuric acid (‘ oil of vitriol’). The appearances which follow differ with the cha- racter of the fatty oil examined, and whether the acid is allowed to act on the oil undis- turbed {without stirring) or the two are stirred together with a glass rod. In many cases, as with tallow oil, a peculiar odour as well as a change of colour is developed, and a further means of detection supplied. M. Heidenreich has minutely described these reactions, which, for the most part, closely resemble those given in the table, page 956. It is necessary, however, in order to ensure great accuracy, to compare the effects of the reagent on the sample with those which it produces on pure oil of the same kind and character under precisely similar circumstances. b. M. Penot, who has followed up the re- searches of M. Heidenreich with considerable success, recommends the employment of 20 drops of oil, instead of only 10 or 15 ; and the use of a small capsule of white porcelain, in- stead of a plate of glass. He also employs a saturated solution of bichromate of potash in sulphuric acid, which he uses in the same pro- ^ See Mixtures (Arithmetic of), page 921.