CIDER. 449 I the transformation of the sugar will he con- verted into acetic acid, and, consequently, more ' will be retained in an unaltered state in the I liquor, to improve its quality, and by its con- I servative and chemical action, to preserve it j from future change. This is the principal cause, other circumstances being alike, of the difference in the quality of the cider made by ! persons living in the same district. The one I lias probably a cooler barn and cellar than the i other to store his liquor in, and is more careful to keep the pulp and juice cool during the , early part of the process. In Devonshire, the I pressing and fermentation are conducted in situations where the temperature varies little i from that of the external air, and fluctuates ! with all its changes; the result is, that Devon- shire cider, of the best class, will rarely keep i more than 4 or 5 years, and seldom improves I after the second or third year, whilst the cider ‘ of Herefordshire and Worcestershire, where these operations are more carefully attended ; to, will keep for 20 or 30 years, i As the juice of apples contains less sugar in proportion to the amount of acid and nitro- genized matter than that of grapes, the addi- i tion of some of this article renders it more I suitable for the production of a vinous liquor. I Potato sugar has been used for this purpose, but good West India sugar is preferable. We I have tasted cider made with this addition, and 1 which had been stored in fresh emptied rum I puncheons, that had all the pungency and vinosity of foreign wine. When the pressing the apples for the juice I is deferred until late in the season, it some- ^ times happens that the fermentation is slow of I being developed. Though the juice has been .set on the old system, in November or Decem- Iwber, the working sometimes hardly commences until March. At .this time the cider is sweet; ' it now rapidly becomes pungent and vinous, i and is soon ready to be racked for use. When the fermentation continues, it is usual to rack it again into a clean cask that has been6‘t4/- phnredy and to leave behind the ‘ head’ and sediment; or two or three cans of cider are put mto a clean cask, and a match of brimstone burned in it; it is then agitated, by which the fermentation of that quantity is completely stopped. The cask is then nearly filled, the fermentation of the whole is checked, and the cider shortly afterwards becomes fine. In 0|)erating in this way, care must be taken that the sulphuring be not overdone, as it is apt to impart a slight flavour to the liquor, which is readily detected by an experienced cider taster. If, on the first operation, the fermentation is not checked, the process of ‘racking’ is re- peated until the liquor becomes clear, and is continued from time to time till the cider is in a (juiet state and fit for drinking. A common practice in Devonshire is to add a stutF called ‘ stum,’ sold by the wine-coopers, or an article called 'antiferment,’ sold by the druggists, for the purpose of checking the fermentation, but a much better plan is that described above. To improve the flavour of weak cider, or to render ordinary cider more vinous, various plans are followed by the cellarmen and bot- tlers. An excellent one is to add to each hogs- head 1^ gall, of good brandy or rum, with 2 oz. of powdered catechu (dissolved in water), 10 lb. of good moist sugar or honey, ^ oz. each of bitter almonds and cloves, and 4 oz. of mus- tard seed (all in powder). These must be well ‘rummaged’ into the liquor, and the whole occasionally stirred up for a fortnight, after which it must be allowed to repose for 3 or 4 months, when it will usually be found per- fectly ‘bright,’ and no bad substitute for foreign wine. Should this not be the case, the liquor must be ‘ fined ’ with a pint of isinglass finings, or a dozen eggs, and allowed to rest for a fortnight. If the cider is preferred pale, the catechu must be omitted, and instead of isinglass, a quart of skimmed milk is to be used as ‘ finings.’ When desired of a pinkish tint, 1 oz. of cochineal (m powder) may be added, instead of the catechu. About 13 cwt. of November apples com- monly yield one hogshead of cider. In Devonshire, about 6 sacks or 24 bushels are the common quantity for the hogshead of 63 gallons. The best cider made at the present day is that of Normandy, Herefordshire, and New Jersey (U.S.), and next, that of Devonshire and Somersetshire. The last is very inferior. See Antipekment, Feementation, &c. Champagne' Cider. This name is given in the United States of America to a fine, pale variety of cider, much used for ‘bottling,’ which has a great resemblance to inferior cham- pagne. The best variety comes from New Jersey. The name is also applied in this country in a similar manner. The fol- lowing is a good form for a made cider of this class:— Prep. Good pale vinous cider, 1 hhd.; proof spirit (pale), 3 gall.; honey or sugar, 14 lb.; mix well, and let them remain together in a temperate situation for 1 month; then add orange-flower water, 3 pints; and in a few days fine it down with skimmed milk, 4 gall. This is very pale. A similar article, bottled in champagne bottles, silvered, and labelled, is often sold to the ignorant for champagne. Made Cider. An article under this name is made in Devonshire, chiefly for the supply of the London market, it having been found that the ordinary cider will not stand a voyage to the metropolis without some preparation. The finest quality of made cider is only ordinary cider racked into a clean and well-sulphured cask; but the mass of that which is sent to London is mixed with water, treacle, and alum, and then fined down; after which it is racked into well-matched casks. The cider sold in London under the name of Devonshire 29