BATHING—BATH-METAL. 285 pot and ‘ sprinkled ^ with a little water, or else wrapped up in a thick coarse towel which has been previously soaked in water, may be sub- stituted for the ‘ hot bricks’ •, and often advan- tageously so. The ‘ slaking ’ of the lime, and the consequent evolution of vapour, may be kept up or renewed, when necessary, by sprink- ling on a little more water. This forms the ‘ POOR man’s yapoue bath ’ of the French. Dr. Serres has suggested, as something appa- I’cntly original, that—a lump of quick-lime, wrapped in a wet cloth, and covered with a dry one, be placed on each side of the patient and the whole being covered up, allowed to remain until copious perspiration is estab- lished. It must, however, be recollected, that by none of these minor contrivances, can the temperature of the vapour, and its supply, be regulated, as in a perfect bath, even a portable one, such as is shewn in the engraving. The following are the temperatures, S^c., of this bath : ^— Temperature of Vajiour, Fahr. Breathed. Not breathed. Tepid vapour-bath 90° to 100° 96° to 106° Warm „ 100 „ 110 106 „ 120 Hot 110 „ 130 120 „ 160 Uses, 8>fc. It is one of the most powerful diaphoretics known, and is almost specific in nearly all those cases wherein warm or hot bathing proves advantageous. It is one of the most certain agents existing in cases of chronic rheumatism, contracted muscles and tendons, stiffness of joints, indurations, dysen- tery, diarrhoea, suppressions, “ Instances are numerous, in which the lame have thrown aside their crutches, and the bedridden have again mixed with* the world, after a few appli- cations of this bath.” “ It is no uncommon thing to hear a patient start and shriek with agony before entering the bath, and to receive ' “ In l)ed” (!) says tlie Dr.; but surely one who could only afford such a bath, would find it difficult to obtain a fresb, dry bed; whilst it would be equally improper for him to lie in a wet or damp one. * Tlie tempera tv res of baths given here, and previously, are those now generally adopted in the profession. See Dr. Forbes’s “ CycL of Prac. 3Ied.P v. i, 205 ; Pereira’s 'flat. 3fei\.r i, 17 ; &c. his congratulations and thanks on his coming out. They often exclaim—^ It is wonderfid! I could not have believed it Warm Bath. Syn. Bal'neijm cal'idym, B. calid'ylum, B. thebma'le, Therm'a, &c., L. ; Bain thermal, B. chayd, &c., Fr. A bath at a temperature equal, or nearly equal, to that of the human body. The sensations attendant upon immersion in a warm bath are most delicious. Its first effect is to increase the circulation of the blood, and to determine it to the skin. After a few mi- nutes an agreeable and universal increase of heat is experienced; the face and head are generally soon bedewed with perspiration; a pleasing and prevailing calm, both mental and physical, follows; and after remaining in it some 12 or 15 minutes the effect is of the most refreshing and happy character. The idea that the warm bath is relaxing, is erroneous. It is only so where j>ersons remain in it too long, or take it too frequently. Nor are those who indulge in it more liable to take cold than others. On the contrary—they are less liable, unless they wilfully expose them- selves, insufficiently clad (particularly about the neck and chest), to draughts of cold air.'* As a remedial agent, the warm bath is adapted to general torpor of the system, liver and bowel complaints, hypochondriasis, hysterical affections, morbid suppressions, dryness of the skin, nearly all cutaneous and nervous dis- eases, chronic rheumatism, &c. As a tonic or stimulant after excessive fatigue, great mental excitement, or physical exertion, it is un- equalled, and furnishes one of the most whole- some, and at the same time luxurious sources of refreshment we are acquainted with. “ To those who are past the meridian of life, who have dry skins, and begin to be emaciated, the warm bath, for half an hour, twice a week, 1 believe to be eminently serviceable in retarding the advances of age.” (Darwin.) The healthy longevity of the late Duke of Wellington, after a period of exposure and trials equal to the entire life of many individuals, has been by some, and we think correctly, mainly attri- buted to the free and constant use of the warm bath. See Bath {ante), &c. Wa'ter Bath. Syn. Bal'neym a'qxj.ze, B. aqyo'sum, B. ma”ri^, B. ma”eis, L. ; Bain- marie, Fr. A water-bath; in chemistry and cookery, applied to a bath of hot or boiling water. See Bath (in chemistry). Bain-marie, &c. BATHING (bathe'-). See Bath {p. 277-8). BATH METAL. A species of brass having the following composition:— 1. Zinc, 3 parts; copper, 16 parts; melted together under charcoal. * Cnlverwell “ On Baths and Bathing." * We have been for many years accustomed to take baths at 98° to 100° Fahr., iii all weathers and seasons, even during our severest winters, and on leaving the batli have often "been engaged, for hours, moving about in ihe open air, even until midnight, without ‘ catching cold,’ or the slightest inconvenience. However, we do not recom- mend others to follow our practice without due care.