I I 1043 A- PROOF. {Proof. As the vi^, which has long ^ twined its gracg^ful foliage ^ about the oak^ and been lifted by it into sunshine, will, Hj when the hardy plant is rift^ ed by the thunder:;;^bolt, ^ cling round/? it with its caressing tendrils, and bind Xits shattered Loughs so is it y(ordered\beautifully by providence, that woman, who is the mere depend^t and ornament of man in '^/ happier hours, should his lolace) C^Aheu smitten by y sudden calamity^ winding I herself ^ iuto the rugged recesses of his nature, ten- derly supporting the droop- ing Iioa4-, and binding up Ttmyiiir the broken heart. [It also is interesting to notice how ^ some MINDS seem almost to create themselves, springing —— up uU(JerA, and working their ^solitary, but irresistible way,y^ ^ through a thousand obsta- Nature seems, &c. stay and solace- [ The same corrected^ As the vine, which lias long twined its grace- ful foMage about the oak, and been hfted by it into sunshine, will, when the hardy plant is rifted by the thunderbolt, chng round it H’ith its caressing tendrils, and bind up its shattered boughs, so is it beautifully ordered by Providence, that WOMAN, who is the mere dependant and ornament of man in his happier hours, should be his stay and solace when smitten by sudden calamity; winding herself into the rugged re- cesses of his nature, tenderly supporting the drooping head, and binding up the broken heart. It also is interesting to notice how some minds seem almost to create themsklves, springing up under every disadvantage, and working their “ soUtary, but irresistible way,” through a thou- sand obstacles. Nature seems, &c. lEVING. Explanation of the marks : 1. When a letter or word is to be in italics. 2. Wlien a letter is turned upside down. 3. The substitution of a comma for another point or letter. 4. The insertion of a hyphen; also marked (-). 5. When letters should be close together. 6. When a letter or word is to be omitted. 7. When a word is to'be changed to roman. 8. 9. Two methods of marking a transposition : when there are several words to be transposed, and they are much intermixed, it is a common plan to number them, and to put the usual mark in the margin. 10. Substitution of a capital for a small letter. 11. When a word is to be changed from small letters to capitals. 12. The transposition of letters in a w'ord. 13. The substitution of one word for another. 14. When a word or letter is to be inserted. 15. When a paragraph occurs improperly. 16. The insertion of a semicolon. 17. When a space or quadrat stands up, and is seen along with the type. 18. When letters of a wrong fount are used. 19. When words crossed off are to remain. 20. The mark for a paragraph, when its com- mencement has been neglected. Sometimes the sign [, or f, or the word ‘ break' is used instead of the syllables ‘ New Par.' 21. For the insertion of a space when omitted or insufficient. 22. To change capitals to small letters. 23. To change small letters to small capitals. 24. MTien lines or words are not straight. 25. 26. The insertion of inverted commas. The apostrophe is similarly marked. 27. The insertion of a period when omitted, or in place of another point or letter. 28. Substitution of one letter for another. 29. The method of marking an omission or insertion when too long for the side margin.