686 GERHARDT’S NOTATION—GERMAN SILVER. I of ‘BRASS.’^ Every 40 gr. of the dry proi\. ausen.) Copper, 40^ parts; nickel, 31^parts; tassa, &c., as described under the analysis’ to dryness; the residuum is dissolved in recti- fied spirit, and the solution is again evaporated; the serai-crystalline mass is, lastly, redissolved in either alcohol or ether, and crystallized by careful evaporation. 2. (Magendie.) The ethereal extract is ex- hausted with cold alcohol (rectified spirit), as before, and the resulting tincture is evaporated to dryness; the residuum is dissolved in water, calcined magnesia added in excess, and the whole boiled and filtered; the sediment is di- gested in ether, and the ethereal tincture allowed to crystallize by slow evaporation. Prop., ^c. Gentianin forms golden-yellow needles, searcely soluble in cold water, but very soluble in alcohol and ether. It is a powerful bitter and stomachic. Pose. 5 gr. to 2 gr. GERHARDT’S NOTA'TION. See Equiva- lents. GER'MAN PASTE. Prep. From pea-meal, 2 lb.; sweet almonds (blanched), 1 lb.; fresh butter or lard, i lb.; moist sugar, 5 oz.; hay saffron, ^ dr.; beat to a smooth paste, adding cold water, q.s., granulate the mass by passing it through a colander, and expose the product to the air, in a w^arm place, until quite hard and dry. The addition of 2 or 3 eggs im- proves it. Used to feed larhs, nightingales, and other insectivorous birds. It will keep good for 12 months in a dry place. GER'MAN SILVER. Syn. Albata, Ar- GENTAN, ElECTRUM, NiCKEL SILVER, TU- TENAG, Virginian Plate, White Copper. A well-known alloy, the finer varieties of which nearly equal silver in whiteness and susceptibility of receiving a high polish, whilst they surpass it in hardness and durability. The following formulae are from the highest authorities, or are the results of actual analysis of the finest commercial samples:— Prep. 1. Copper, 50 parts; nickel, 20 parts; zinc, 30 parts. Very malleable, and takes a high polish. 2. Copper, 50 parts; nickel, 26 parts; zinc, 24 parts. Closely resembles silver; an ex- cellent sample. 3. Copper and zinc, of each, 41 parts; nickel, 18 parts. Rather brittle. 4. (M. Gersdorff.) Copper, 50 parts; nickel and zinc, of each, 25 parts. Very white and malleable, and takes a high polish. Recom- mended as a general substitute for silver. 5. (Gersdorft'.) Copper, 60 parts; nickel and zinc, of each, 20 parts. For castings, as bells, candlesticks, &c. 6. (Gersdorff.) Copper, 60 parts; nickel, 25 parts; zinc, 20 parts. For rolling and wire. Very tough and malleable. 7. (Sample made from the ore of Hilburgh- iron, 2^ parts; zinc, 25^ parts. Equal to the best Chinese sample. 8. (Pelouze.) Copper and nickel, equal parts. Recommended by M. Pelouze as superior to any of the alloys containing zinc. 9. (Pelouze.) Copper, 2 parts; nickel, 1 part. Not so white as the last, but more malleable. 10. (White Copper from China.)—a. Copper, 30 parts; nickel, 36 parts; zinc, 34 parts. b. (Said to be prepared from native ore.) Copper, 41 parts; nickel, 32 parts; iron, 2-^- parts; zinc, 24| parts. Silvery white, takes a high polish, very sonorous, malleable both cold and at a dull-red heat, and may be rolled into leaves or formed into wire. 11. (White metal spoon, sold as ‘ German Plate.’) Copper, 55 parts; nickel, 24 parts; zinc, 16 parts; tin, 3 parts; iron, 2 parts. .dnal. This may be briefly described as follows:—a. 100 gr. of the alloy is digested in nitric acid, q. s., diluted with a little water. If the sample is unequally attacked by the acid, and a white external shell is observed which dissolves more slowly than the internal portion, it is ^plated' on those parts with silver. If this silver shell or casing has a polished surface on both sides, the article has been ^ electro-plated f if the contrary is the case, it has most probably been plated in the usual way. b. The solution being completed, heat is applied to expel the excess of acid, and the remainder is largely diluted with distilled water ; dilute hydrochloric acid is now dropped in as long as it occasions a precipitate, and the whole, after being moderately heated for a short time, and cooled, is thrown upon a small paper filter; the precipitate on the filter is next washed with distilled water, care- fully dried, and ignited in a small porcelain crucible, the filter itself being separately burnt on the cover of the crueible, and the ashes added to its contents prior to ignition. Every 143| gr. of the resulting fused chloride is equal to 108 gr. of metallic silver. c. The filtered liquid (see b.) is next treated with a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen, and the ‘black precipitate’ is collected, washed, and digested in strong nitric acid; when the solution is complete, sulphuric acid is dropped in, to precipitate the lead (if any is present); if a precipitate is formed, the whole is evapo- rated to dryness, and the excess of sulphuric acid expelled by a rather strong heat applied towards the end; the dry mass is now col- lected on a filter, washed with a mixture of water and alcohol, dried, and exposed to slight ignition in a porcelain crucible. Every 152 gr. of the resulting dry sulphate is equal to 104 gr. of LEAD. d. The liquor filtered from the ‘sulphate of lead,’ or (in its absence) the nitric solution of the precipitate produced by the sulphuretted hydrogen (see c.), is next treated with po^ oxide thus obtained represents 32 gr. of pure COPPER. . [ e. The liquor which was filtered from the 1 See c., page 361.