500 DEATH—DECARBONIZAtlON. warm water into the ear hy means of a proper syringe. When deafness arises from imper- fection of the tympanum or drum of the ear, the effects of the application of the ^artificial memhrana Ujmpani’ invented by Mr. Yearsley (moistened cotton wool) are generally imme- diate and truly wonderful. By its aid persons previously so deaf as to he incapable of bearing their share in conversation have been enabled to hear an ordinary whisper. Insects may he destroj^ed by pouring a spoonful of tearm olive oil, or camphorated oil, into the ear over night, retaining it there until the next morning by means of a piece of cotton wool, when it may be washed out with a little mild soap and warm water. When there is a deficiency of the natural secretion of wax, or a dryness of the aural passage, mild oleaginous stimulants may be employed. For this purpose a little olive or almond oil, to which a few drops of oil of tur- pentine, oil of juniper, or camphor liniment, have been added, may be used with advantage. A piece of cotton wool moistened with glycerine is an excellent application in such cases. When deafness is accompanied with continued acute pain, or a discharge of purulent matter, inflammation of the tympanum, or some other portion of the internal ear, probably exists, and medical advice should be sought as soon as possible. The deafness that frequently accom- panies a violent cold is generally caused by obstructions in the Eustachian tubes, and goes off as soon as the secretions return to a healthy state. In some forms of deafness blisters behind the ears are useful. A clove of garlic wrapped in cotton or gauze, or a few drops of the juice introduced into the ear, is extremely efficacious in nervous deafness. When imper- fect hearing depends upon obtundity of the auditory nerve, or an extensive obliteration or malformation of the internal ear, it scarcely admits of cure. Taylor’s Eemedy for Deafness. Prep. From oil of almonds, 1 lb.; garlic, bruised, 2 oz. •, alkanet root, i oz.; digest for a week, and strain. A little is poured into the ear in deafness. DEATH. In cases of sudden death inter- ment should be deferred till signs of putre- faction begin to appear, especially when no gradation of disease has preceded, as in cases of apoplexy, hysterics, external injixries, drowning, suffocation, &c. No sooner has breathing apparently ceased, and the visage assumed a ghastly or a death-like hue, than the patient, after his eyes are closed, is too often hurried into a coffin, and the body, scarcely yet cold, is precipitated into the grave. So extremely fallacious are the signs of death, that the semblance has been fre- quently mistaken for the reality. By prompt means and judicious treatment, many persons, when in such a condition, have been happily restored to their families and friends. The effects of sound upon animal life is astonishing. The beat of a drum, for instance, has had a very beneficial effect upon persons in a state of suspended animation. At one time, a scream, extorted by grief, proved the means of resuscitating a person who was supposed jfi to be dead, and who had exhibited the usual ji recent marks of the extinction of life. In |; cases of catalepsy or trance, having the sem- i | blance of death, the action of the lungs and i heart continues, though in a nearly imper- ! ceptible degree. By placing a cold mirror or ' piece of highly polished metal immediately over the mouth of the patient, symptoms of ! moisture will appear upon the surface if the most feeble respiration takes place. DEBILTTY. Syn. DebilTtas, L. Weak- ness ; languor ; feebleness. When this arises from a diseased action of the stomach, the occasional use of mild aperients, followed by hitters and tonics, may be had recourse to. When from a general laxity of the solids, and there are no symptoms of fever, nor a tendency of blood to the head, a coiirse of chalybeates generally proves advantageous. See Anemia, , Atrophy, &c. DECANTA'TION. The operation of pouring or drawing off the clear portion of a liquid from the impurities or grosser matter that has subsided. It is commonly performed, either by gently inclining the vessel, or by the use of a syphon or pump. In the laboratory it is much resorted to in the purification of pre- cipitates, or other similar operations, where repeated edulcoration or washing is required, for which purpose it is preferable to filtration, from being less troublesome and more econo- mical. In these cases, after a sufficient time having been allowed for the subsidence of the precipitate or powder, or for the clearing of the supernatant fluid, the latter is decanted, and its place supplied by a fresh portion of water, which, after sufficient agitation, is simi- ' larly treated, and the whole operation repeated as often as necessary. DECAHT'ERS. There is often much diffi- culty experienced in cleaning decanters, espe- cially after port wine has stood in them for some time. The best way is to wash them out with a little pearlash and warm water, adding a spoonful or two of fresh-slaked lime, if necessary. To facilitate the action of the fluid against the sides of the glass, a few small cinders may be used. A spoonful of strong oil of vitriol will also rapidly remove any kind of dirt from glass bottles. Decanters which have become ‘furred’ by holding hard water may be cleaned with a spoonful of hydrochloric acid if spirits of salt’), diluted with 3 or 4 times its weight of water. See Stoppers. DECARBONIZA'TIOH. This operation is performed on cast iron, to convert it into soft iron. The articles to be decarbonized are packed in finely powdered haematite, or ‘ native oxide of iron, to which iron filings arc often added, and exposed for some time to ! a strong red heat, by which the excess of carbon is abstracted or burnt out. The pro-