255 BALLOONING—BALLS. lighter than common air), will, therefore, have an ascensional force of g'j, lb. Now the weight of the body of air which a balloon displaces must exceed the gross weight of the balloon and all its appendages, in order for the latter ' to ascend in the atmosphere. The difference of the two weights expresses the ascensional force. The aerostatic power of balloons is proportional to their dimensions, in the ratio \ of the cubes of their diameters. Thus, it ap- ; pears that a balloon of 60 feet diameter filled i with common hydrogen will ascend with a ! weight of nearly 7000 lb. besides the gas case ; whilst one of only 1^ foot in diameter, will I barely float, owing to the less'proportionate volume of gas to the weight of the case con- taining it. In round numbers the buoyancy of a balloon may be reckoned as equal to 1 oz. for every cubic foot of hydrogen it contains, less the weight of the case and appendages, j The carburetted hydrogen supplied by the gas , works is much heavier than hydrogen gas, and consequently much less buoyant, for which 1 due allowance must be made. That which possesses the least illuminating power is the lightest, and consequently the best adapted for aerostation. The fabric of which the cases of aie-bal- j LOONS are made is strong thin silk, covered with i an elastic varnish of drying oil or India-rubber, or what is better, a solution of India-rubber in either chloroform or bisulphuret of carbon; I the NETTING is of strong light silk or flaxen ' cord; and the Cae, of basket-work. Fiee- BALLOONS, on the small scale, are generally made of silver-paper, and are inflated with the fumes of burning spirit of wine, by means of 1 a sponge dipped in that liquid, and suspended i just within the mouth of the apparatus. Owing to the increasing rarity of the atmo- sphere as we ascend from the earth’s surface, balloon cases are made very much larger than is required to contain the necessary quantity of gas, to allow for its expansion as it rises into a rarer medium. A cubical foot of gas measured at the level of the sea, occupies a space of two feet at an elevation of 3^ miles. The following Table will prove useful to the amateur aeronaut or balloonist:— Table shewing the relations between the dia- meters, surfaces, and capacities of S2>heres. Diameters. Surfaces. Cubical contents. 1 3-141 -523 2 12-567 4-188 3 28-274 14-137 4 50-265 33-51 5 78-54 65-45 10 314-159 523 6 15 706-9 1767-1 20 1256-6 4189- 25 1963-5 8181- 30 2827- 14137- 40 5026- 33510- The expectations once confidently enter- tained, that balloons would be found appli- cable to many important purposes, have been now long disappointed, owing to the impossi- bility of controlling their course, beyond that of mere elevation within certain limits. In a few instances they have been made subservient to military reconnoissance and scientific obser- vation. The victory of Jordan over the Aus- trians, at Fleurus (a.d. 1794), has been referred to the knowledge he acquired of the enemy’s movements by means of a balloon. A like knowledge, similarly acquired, proved equally serviceable to the French and Sardinian armies, in the recent campaign in Italy, and particu- larly at Solferino. An ascent, very interesting to science, w^as made by Biot and Gay-Lussac in 1804, w^hen an elevation of upwards of 13,000 feet was obtained. A similar ascent was made soon after by Gay-Lussac alone, when the enor- mous height of 23,040 feet was reached, or an elevation of upwards of 4^ English miles, being higher than the highest peak of the Andes. Beyond these few instances, nothing important, either to the cause of humanity or science, or arms, has been obtained by ballooning during a period extending over 70 years; whilst, on the other hand, many fatal disasters have befallen the bold and adventurous spirits who have trusted their safety to aerial navigation. The names of De Rozier, Romain, Madame Blan- chard, Pontini, Sadler Junr., Cocking, Lieut. Gale, and many others, swell the list of vic- tims, independently of the numerous cases of broken limbs, and frightful contusions and maiming, sustained in the same way. Hitherto balloon-ascents have served chiefly to gratify mere idle curiosity; and, unless some easy method be discovered of directing their course through the air, which is highly improbable, there is little reason to anticipate any benefit to society from them in the future. All the attempts hitherto made to bring them under the control of the aeronaut, and to guide them against, or even across, the currents of the atmosphere, have proved signal failures; and the balloon and its voyagers still move with the aerial stream in v/hich they are immersed, as in the earliest days of ballooning. See Atmospheee, Gas, Hydeogen, Navigation (Aerial), Paeachute, Vaenish, &c. BALLOON'INGJ. Syn. BALLOON'EYf^. The act, art, or practice of ascending or travelling in balloons; aerostation. A balloon'ist;];, is an aeronaut (particularly an amateur or en- thusiastic one). BALLOTTE'MENT (-lot'-). [Fr.] See Peeg- NANCY. BALLS. The application of this term in commerce, perfumery, veterinary medicine, H(c., has been already noticed. (See p. 253.) The following may be inserted here ;— Al'mond Balls (ah'mund). Syn. Boules d’amande, Fr. Prep. 1. Sper7naceti, 4 oz.; white wax (pure), 8 oz. ; oil of almonds, 1 pint; melt them together in a glazed earthen-