237 ASSAYING. ! administered with advantage in several uterine diseases, hysteria, chorea, flatulent colic, hooping-cough, infantile convulsions, spas- modic asthma, and some other affections of a spasmodic and convulsive character.—Dose. 5 or 6 to 30 gr.; in pills, or preferably made iinto an emulsion; as an enema, 2 dr., with warm water, q. s. Some oriental nations esteem it highly as a condiment. The Brah- mins use it against flatulence, and to correct the coldness of their vegetable food. In Persia, I the leaves of the plant are eaten as salad; and I the root, after being roasted. In cookery, it is how frequently employed as a substitute for , garlic. “ I am assured by an experienced gas- [ tronome, that the finest relish which a beef- r steak can possess, may be communicated by ” ij (slightly) “ rubbing the gridiron, on which the li steak is to be cooked, with assafoetida.”' i, Prepared' Assafcetida. Syn. Steained' assa- FCETIDA; ASSAFCETIDA PR.EPARA'TA (Ph. L.), L. As ammoniacum prceparatum, Ph. L. ‘ ASSAY' (-sa'). Syn. Essai {anc., asaie), Fr.; Pruptjng-, &c., Ger. Literally, a ‘ trial ’ or examination. In chemistry, the determi- nation, by any chemical means, of the richness ) of a substance in its essential material or more I valuable ingredient; more particularly applied I to quantitative analyses of the commercial ■ alkalies, bleaching-powder, oxide of manga- nese, ores, and other like articles that are em- t ployed on the large scale. In docimacy and metallurgy, the determination of the quantity of metal in any ore, alloy, or other metallic t compound, particularly in the ' dry way,’ or by I the process of cupellation; and more espe- jf cially of the quantity of pure gold, or pure f silver, contained in coin, bullion, and the com- . mercial alloys and ores of these metals. The • substance assayed*. See Assaying, &c. 1 ASSAY'ING. Syn. Assay', Doc'imacy (dos'-), DoCIMAS'tIC AET ; COUPELLATION, Fr. ; AB- TEEiBEN AUP DEE CAPELLE, Ger. The art of assay, or of determining the quantity of gold and silver in ores and alloys of these metals, in the ‘ dry way,' or by cupellation. It differs f from * chemical analysis ’ in merely furnishing f the quantity of the precious metal contained iin the sample examined; instead of the nature and proportions of all, or any, of the ingredients in the compound, at the will of the operator. ’ Hist. Assaying, of an imperfect character, i probably began to be practised in England soon after the Roman conquest; but its origin, as an art, is generally referred to the Bishop of Salisbury, who was treasurer to Henry I., in the early part of the 12th century. During the reign of Edward III. (a.d. 1354) ‘assay’ was formally established in this country ; and it was subsequently regulated by several Acts of Parliament (13 Will. HI., 1700; 4 Anne, 1705; &c.). Assay-masters were appointed at Sheffield and Birmingham, a.d. 1773. The . assay-master of the Royal Mint of England, ' Pereira, "Mat. Med. Therap.,” 4th ed., iii. 177. was formally appointed, with other members of the Corporation, under charter of Edward I. (a.d. 1278). At this period, according to Stowe, the mint was kept by Italians; the English being ignorant of the art of coinage and assay. At the present day, there are two assay-masters at the Royal Mint— the master’s assayer, and the king’s assayer. The business of the former is to receive and examine the gold and silver ingots brought for coinage; and of the latter, to examine the melted bars previously to their being coined into money. When the money is coined it is ^pixed ’ before being sent from the Mint; by which the king’s assayer becomes responsible for the purity of all the gold and silver coin issued from the establishment. Materials, appar., 8('c. These exe,—furnace, muffle, cupels, charcoal, ^c., all of which must be provided and properly arranged for use before an assay can be made :— The fue'nace employed at the Royal Mint, and at Goldsmiths’ Hall, London, is figured in section in the engr., and has the following (a, a.) Rollers on which the furnace rests. (5.) Ash-pit. , (c.) One of the ash pit dampers. (d.) Grate supporting the muffle-plate. (e.) Muffle containing the cupels. (/.) The mouth-plate, upon which, during use, is piled ignited pieces of charcoal, by which the mouth of the furnace is closed, and heated air made to pass over the cupels. (k.) Interior of furnace containing charcoal. (i, i.) Walls of the fm-nace. (k.) Moveable chimney for regulating the draught. dimensions:—Total height, 2^ feet; from the bottom to the grate, 6 inches; grate, muffle- plate, and bed of loam that covers it, 3 inches; space between the grate and the bottom of the funnel or chimney, 21^ inches; funnel, 6 inches. A furnace of any other shape and size