519 DIARRHCEA—DIGESTION. water, into the space between the two. See Electrotype. DIARRH(E'A. A purging or looseness of ' the bowels. The causes of diarrhoea are > various, but among the most common are the t presence of irritating matter, worms, or acidity, in the stomach or bowels; and ex- posure to cold (especially cold to the feet) or sudden changes of climate or temperature. Treatm. In general, it will be proper to administer a mild aperient, for which purpose rhubarb or castor oil is usually preferred. The dose of the first may be from 20 to 30 grains in sugar, or made into a bolus; that of the second, from \ oz. to oz., with a little mint OY peppermint water. After the due operation I of this medicine, opium, astringents, and ab- I sorbents, may be taken with advantage, but not in excessive doses, as is commonly the practice. The first and second are indicated when great irritability exists, and the third, ! in cases of diarrhoea arising from the presence I of acidity. Chalk mixture, to which a few drops of laudanum have been added, or the compound powder of chalk and opium, are excellent medicines, and will generally quiet j the bowels. A small piece of catechu or hard extract of logwood, sacked in the same way as a lozenge, is a pleasant method of taking either of these powerful astringents, and will ge- nerally cure cases of simple diarrhoea arising from excessive peristaltic motion, or want of tonicity of the muscular coats of the in- testines. In bilious diarrhoea, characterised by the i bright yellowish-brown colour of the dejec- tions, a dose of blue pill or calomel, assisted by mild diluents and demulcents, and warmth, generally proves efficacious. Small doses of j opium are also useful in some cases. ** In catarrhal diarrhoea, chylous diarrhoea, and the like varieties, characterised by the dejec- tions being nearly colourless, and consisting chiefly of water and mucus; or white and milky, showing the entire absence of bile; or, being entirely liquid, limpid, and serous (in some cases resembling the washings of flesh), opinions are' divided as to the treatment. The majority of the best authorities regard purg- ing as injurious in these varieties, and rely chiefly on warm baths and warm fomentations, with the internal administration of mild salines and diaphoretics, followed by astrin- I gents, tonics, and occasional doses of opiates. Choleraic diarrhoea demands a nearly similar treatment. The diet in every variety of diarrhoea should be light and non-irritating. Glutinous broths, i beef-tea, and arrow-root, are among the best articles which can be taken. To these may be added a little dry toast. Arrow-root (genuine), either with or without a spoon- ful of port wine or brandy (preferably the former), will of itself cure all ordinary cases of diarrhoea, if accompanied with repose and a recumbent posture, Among external remedies, warm and stimu- lating fomentations, liniments, &c., to the epi- gastrium and abdomen, will be found useful adjuncts to other treatment. A spoonful or two of laudanum, used as a friction, will generally allay pain, and in many cases settle the bowels when all other remedies have been tried in vain. DI'ASTASE. A peculiar azotized substance, contained in malt, which effects the conversion of starch, first into dextrine, and then into grape sugar. Prep. A cold inf usion of malt is heated to 158° Eahr. (to coagulate in albumen); it is then allowed to cool, and alcohol is added to the filtered liquor, when diastase is precipi- tated, under the form of a tasteless white powder, wliich is freely soluble in water. Prop., &^c. Diastase seems to resemble vegetable albumen, but very little is known respecting it, as it has never been got in a state of purity. One j>art of diastase is ca- pable of converting 2000 parts of starch into grape sugar. Malted barley is said to contain g^oth part of this substance; yet this small portion is quite sufficient to convert the starch of the malt into sugar during the operation of mashing, in the manufacture of beer. See Brewing, Dextrine, &c. DICTA"MIA. A nutritious dietetic article. Prep. (Beasley.) Sugar, 7 oz.; potato arrow- root, 4 oz.; fiour of brent barley {Triticum monococcum), 3 oz.; Trinidad and Granada chocolate, of each, 1 oz.; vanilla, 15 gr.; tri- turate together. DIDYMTUM. A rare metal, found associated with cerium and lanthanium in the Swedish mineral cerite. See Cerium. DI'ET. Food or victuals. In medicine, food regulated by certain rules, or jjrescribed for the cure or prevention of disease. “ The dietetic part of medicine is no inconsiderable branch, and deserves a much greater share of regard than it commonly meets with. A great variety of diseases might be removed by the observance of a proper diet and regimen, without the assistance of medicine, were it not for the impatience of the sufferers. On all occasions it may come in as a proper as- sistant to the cure, which sometimes cannot be performed without a due observance of the non-naturals.” Writers on dietetics (dietetica, L.) have taken much trouble to divide and classify the numerous articles of food suitable to the various conditions of the body in health and disease; but little practical advantage has resulted from their labours. Low diet, middle diet, full diet, milk diet, farinaceous diet, fruit diet, and vegetable diet, are terms which, under most circumstances, are sufficiently simple to be almost self-explanatory. DIGES'TION. In chemistry and pharmacy, the operation of exposing bodies to a gentle and continuous heat. The best digesters are thin glass flasks and beakers, and the I