56 ELLAGIC ACID—EMBROIDERY. 5. (Virgatii’s.) Prpp. From spirit of sul- phuric ether, 2 lb ; aromatic tincture, 3 lb. Woroneje Elixir. Capsicum, 1 oz.; nitre, i oz.; sal ammoniac, 2 dr.; nitro-hydrochloric acid, 2 fl. dr.; vinegar, 1^ pint; native white or rose naphtha, or petroleum, 1 j fl. dr.; olive oil, 1 fl. oz.; oil of peppermint (Mitcham), 15 fl. oz.; strongest rectified spirit, 6 quarts; digest 12 days, with constant agitation, and filter. Dose. 2 teaspoonfuls, every 15 minutes; in cholera, diarrhoea, Ac. ELLAG'IC ACiD (el-laj'-ik). MTaen an aque- ous infusion of nut-galls is left for some time exposed to the atmosphere, the tmnic acid gradually disappears, and is replaced by gallic acid, and an insoluble gray powder, to which the term ellagic acid w'as applied by Chevreul. It is soluble in alkalies, forming salts, and is pre- cipitated by acids. ELM. Syn. IlLMrs, L. A genus of trees forming the type of the natural order Ulmaceas. The interior bark of the Ulmus campestris, or common small-leaved elm, is ofiicinal in Ph. L. This substance is demulcent, diaphoretic, and diuretic, and slightly febrifuge, astringent, and tonic. It has been employed in agues, and as a substitute for sarsaparilla in cutaneous erup- tions, but is now^ little used. The (eaves of the elm tree are reported to be vulnerary.,. See Decoction and Ulmine. ELUTRIA'TION. Cleansing by w^ashing. The term is commonly applied to the operation of w^ashing insoluble povvders with water, to separate them from foreign matter, or the coarser portion. It is usually performed by grinding or triturating the mass with a little water, until reduced to a very fine powder, and this paste is suddenly diffused through a large quantity of water, contained in a deep vessel, from which, after the subsidence of the grosser portion, the liquid is poured into another vessel, and allowed to deposit the fine powder it still holds in suspension. When this has taken place, the clear supernatant liquor is decanted, and the sediment drained and dried. The coarse sediment deposited in the first vessel is now submitted to a fresh grinding and diffusion through water, and the entire operation is repeated, until the w'hole of the pulverizable portion is ‘ washed over.’ The proper length of time for the liquid to remain in the first vessel, depends solely on the density of the powder and the degree of fineness re- quired in the product; heavy pow’ders sub- siding almost immediately, while light ones often take several minutes to deposit the coarser portion. Sometimes three or more vessels are employed, and the muddy liquor, after remaining a short time in the first, is poured into the next one, and this, in a short time longer, into the third, and so on, until the last vessel is filled, by which means povv- ders of diflerent degrees of fineness are ob- tained, that deposited in the last vessel being in the minutest state of division. The elu- triated paste or moist powder is then drained. j and dried. On the small scale, the trituration I is performed wdth a stone and muller, or in a i mortar; on the large scale, in a mill, driven by ' either horse or steam power. Antimony, chalk, bistre, and other pigments, as well as various other substances insoluble in or unacted on by I water, are commonly obtained in the state of an inpalpable pow'der by elutriation, or j ‘ washing over,’ as it is called by amateurs and operatives. I ELYDOR'IC PAINTING. A method of j painting invented by M. Vincent, of Mont- j petit, in which the pigments are mixed up with an emulsion of oil and water. It is said j to add the fresh appearance of w’ater colours, I and the finish of miniature painting, to the mellowness of oil colours. EMBALMING. Syn. Mummification. The preservation of the dead bodies of animals. See MuMMy and Puteefaction. EMBOS'SING. The formation of ornamental figures in relief on cloth, leather, paper, and wood, has now been brought to such perfection, as to place this species of decoration within the reach of almost every class of society. Embossed cloth and papee are now employed by the bookbinder to cover even the low- priced volumeEs that pass through his hands; whilst the embossed leathee that encloses the album or ornaments our furniture, fre- quently bears the richest patterns of the ara- besque or moresque. Cloth and paper are usually embossed by machinery; leather and wood, more frequently by hand labour. EMBROCA'TION. Syn. Embeocatio, L. A fluid medicine for external and local use. Embrocations do not ditier, materially, from liniments and lotions, and are applied in the same manner. (See those preparations, and below.) Guestonian Embrocation. Syn. Embeo- catio TEEEBINTHIN^ CUM ACIDO, L. Prep. (Dr. Paris.) Oil of turpentine and olive oil, of each, 1^ oz.; dilute sulphuric acid, 3 fl. dr.; agitate together until mixed. Used in rheu- matism, &c. Lynch’s Embrocation. Olive oil (coloured with allcanet root), 5 fi. oz.; oils of amber, rose- mary, and turpentine, of each, 1 dr. In bruises, rheumatism, &c. Roche’s Embrocation. Prep. 1. (Dr. Paris.) Olive oil, mixed with half its w^eight of the oils of cloves and amber. 2. Olive oil, 2 oz.; oil of amber, 1 oz.; oils of cloves and lemons, of each, 1 dr. Por hoop- ing-cough. Ward’s Embrocation. See Essence. EMBROID'EEY. Gold and silver fancy work of this description may be cleaned with a little spirit of wine, either alone or di- luted with an equal weight of water. Gin is frequently used for the same purpose. The common practice of using alkaline or acid liquors is very injurious, and frequently de- stroj's the beauty of the articles instead of cleaning them.