1009 OLIVILE—OPHTHALMIA. lurope. The unripe' fruit is preserved in rine (Spanish olives, Feench olives) ; the 'pe fruit furnishes olive oil; the barh is itter, astringent, and febrifuge, and has been ised as a substitute for cinchona baek ; it ields a gum-like substance (olive gum), j hich was formerly reputed vulnerary, and |)ntains olivile. The olive tree has in all ges been held in peculiar estimation, as the bunteous gift of heaven to man. Some irthors have styled it “ a mine on earth.” It I remarkable for yielding a fixed oil from the jericarp, instead of from the seed, j OL'IVILE. The name given by Pelletier ,) the substance obtained by evaporating an ’coholic solution of the gum of the olive tree. \: is a white, brilliant, starch-like powder, |)luble in hot water and in alcohol. ; OLIVINE. Syn. Olivina, Olivinum. A jhite, crystalline substance, obtained by Lan- erer from the leaves of the olive tree. Prep. The recent leaves (bruised) are di- ested in water acidulated with hydrochloric :id; the infusion is concentrated by a gentle eat, and precipitated by ammonia; the pre- pitate is washed with a little cold water, re- issolved in dilute acid, and decoloured by limdl charcoal; the filtered solution is, lastly, j-precipitated with ammonia, as before. Prop., White; crystalline; bitter; )luble in dilute acids, and in alcohol. It is lebly basic. OLLIVIER'S BISCUITS. See Patent Me- ICINES. OM'ELET. Syn. Omelette, Fr. A variety ? pancake or fritter made of eggs and other jigredients. Omelets may contain bacon, ham, erhs,fish, shell-fish, cold meat, cold game, fruit, b anything else at hand at the pleasure of the [)ok. ‘ Spirit omelets " are made by pour- ig a little brandy, rum, or whisky over them a serving them up, and setting it on fire for I moment just before placing the dish on the jible. “ Where is the man or woman cook lit says they know how to make an omelette, ad that to perfection? But this is rarely le case. It is related of Sarah, the Duchess r Marlborough, that no one could cook a Vraise," as it was then called, for the great uke but herself. The great point is, if in a iron pan, it should be very clean and free •om damp, which sometimes comes out of the ■on when placed on the fire. The best plan 1 to put it on the fire, with a little fat, and j it it get quite hot, or until the fat burns; jemove it, and wipe it clean Avith a dry cloth, ,nd then you will be able to make the omelette 0 perfection.” (Soyer.) The following formula for a plain omelet is y the above culinary authority :—“Break four ggs into a basin, add \ teaspoonful of salt !nd ^ do. of pepper, and beat them up well j.ith a fork; put into the fiying-pan 1^ oz. of utter, lard, or oil, place it on the fire, and, /hen hot, pour in the eggs, and keep on mixing hem quickly with a spoon until they are deli- cately set; then let them slip to the edge of the pan, laying hold by the handle, and raising it slantways, which will give an elongated form to the omelette; turn in the edges, let it rest a moment, to set, turn it over on to a dish, and serve.” “ It ought to be of a rich- yellow colour, done to a nicety, and as light and delicate as possible.” “ 2 table-spoonfuls of. meVA and 1 oz. of the crum of bread, cut into thin slices, may be added.” Mixed and fancy omelets are made by simply dropping the ingredients, cut into dice or fragments, into the above. Anchovy, OYSTER, and shrimp omelets are generally prepared by placing a few spoonfuls of the respective sauces in the centre of each, when nearly dressed. ONGUENT (de la Mere). A stimulant and digestive ointment, very popular in French pharmacy. Prep. (P. Cod.) Black pitch, 1 part; butter, lard, litharge, suet, and yellow wax, 4 parts; olive oil, 8 parts. ONTON. Syn. Cepa, L. The bulb of Allium Cepa. The onion is diuretic, expectorant, rubefacient, and stimulant. The juice, made into a syrup with sugar (syrupus cepas), has been given in chronic catarrh, diarrhoea, croup, dropsy, and calculus. Roasted and split open, onions have been applied as poultices to suppu- rating tumours, and applied to the pubes to relieve suppression of urine in children. Ac- cording to Dr. Cullen, “ onions are acrid and stimulating, and possess little nutrient power. In bilious constitutions they generally produce flatulence, thirst, headache, and febrile symp- toms; but where the temperament is phleg- matic, they are of infinite service, by stimu- lating the system, and promoting the excre- tions, particularly expectoration and urine.” They also possess antiscorbutic and soporific properties. O'NYX. A sub-species of quartz often wrought into small ornamental articles. Among jewellers, any stone exhibiting layers of two or more colours, strongly contrasted, is called an ‘ onyx.' A regularly and richly banded agate of this class is much prized for cameos. See Gems. O^PAL. A mineral allied to agate and CHALCEDONY, but distinguished by its peculiar resinous lustre. The variety most admired as a gem is the precious or noble opal, which is remarkable for its beautiful play of colours. See Gems and Pastes. OPHTHAL'MIA. Syn. Ophthalmitis, L. Inflammation of the eye. In ordinary cases this disease is confined to the external mem- brane of the globe of the eye, or to the eyelids; but it occasionally attacks the sclero- tica, cornea, choroid coat, and retina. The common causes of ordinary or con- junctival ophthalmia are the sudden expo- sure of the organ to a cold easterly wind, to dust, gritty particles, or to any external irri- tation or injury. 64