BATH. 276 gile, and very liable to crack when filled with hot water in cold weather. Weclgeivood-wat'e is very beautiful and durable; but it is expen- sive, and baths formed of it can only be ob- tained on special order. Stourbridge-ware,^ as produced of late years, is the only product of the pottei’’s art, that appears entirely to meet the case; but even this yields in dura- bility to enamelled iron'^ as a material for 1. baths adapted to all liquids and temperatures, and to rough or careless usage. (See engr. 1.) The better qualities of poet'able baths (see engr. 2) are generally made of copper. Stout tinned or galvanised iron, and even stout block- tin thickly covered with waterproof paint or japan, are also employed; but though less ex- O pensive than copper, they have the disadvan- tage of being much less durable. All these substances are, however, readily acted on by chemicals. A durable and cheap ‘portable bath,’ adapted to all piirposes, must, therefore, like a ‘ fixed one,’ be made of one or other of the materials already noticed.^ For med'i- CATED BATHS large wooden troughs are fre- quently employed, particularly for acidulated, ioduretted, and sulphuretted baths. The arrangements for supplying cold and hot water must necessarily greatly depend on cir- cumstances, and the quantity required. For a single fixed bath, or even for 2 or 3 of ^ Batlis of all sizes and patterns, withoirt seam or joint, with a white enamel-glaze surface which resist acids and other chemicals, are produced by the Stourbridge potrers, and vended at reasonable prices by their agents. They are now very extensively used in the public bafhs of London. ® These baths, manufactured under ‘ Letters Patent,’ by Messrs. T. & C. Clark & Co., the eminent Iron-founders of Wolverhampton, possess every quality that can be desired in a bath. They are coated with a polished anti- corrosive enamel, which*is capable of resisting chemicals— even boiling oil of vitriol,—is unaffected by the highest heat of water and sudden changes of temperature, is not liable to chip, and is indestructible except by the blow of a hammer or some pointed steel instrument. They are easily set or fixed, and require little e.xternal fittings or casing—some of the patterns absolutely none, as is the case with the one shewn in the engr. See Enamelled lEON-WAKE. ® See Text and ~Note, ante. them, the common circulating water-heater or boiler, placed in some apartment on a rather ‘lower’ level than the bath, is, perhaps, the , most convenient; but where this is not attain- i able the water may be run, by means of a pipe, from a boiler situated on a somewhat ‘ higher ’ level. In either case a supply of cold water must also be at hand, and conveyed in a like manner, to enable the bath to be reduced to f any required temperature. On the large scale, » as in our ‘ public baths,’ where numerous » baths are in constant use during the day, the ' | hot ivater is best supplied from a large cistern i somewhere above the level of the bath-rooms, j and which is heated by a coil of pipe supplied < with high-pressure steam from a boiler situ- ated on a lower level, as the ground-floor or i basement. The hot and the cold water, con- i veyed by separate pipes of about 1^ inch dia- i meter, unite in a ‘two-way cock’ close to the bath, so as to enter it together, by which only one aperture in the end of the bath is requii*ed for the purpose. The bath is ‘ emptied,’ and ‘ excess of water ’ removed, by a grated aper- ture in the bottom, also stopped by a cock • which, like the former, has ‘ handles ’ or ‘keys’ so placed as to be accessible to the attendant outside the bath-room, as xvell as to * the bather; whilst the danger of overflowing : is obviated by a two-inch ‘ w'aste-pipe,’ open- ing into the bath at about twm inches from the top. For heating roETABLE BATHS so many plans are in use, and have been suggested, and even patented, that the reader cannot possibly 1)C at a loss for one to suit his particular case. A small grate for burning charcoal is the one most commonly adopted; but wdiere attain- able, a ring or cross of small inflamed gas-jets, is more cleanly and manageable. When the bath consists of a ‘wooden tub,’ or , any other deep vessel, a simple and inexpen - ^ sive apparatus brought out in America, under H the title of the ‘Ital'iax bath'-waemek ’'' («.) Batli-tul). (i.) The larger arm of the warming-tuhe hy which the charcoal is introduced, and hy wliicli the fume's fly off. (c.) Tlie smaller arm to admit air to support the com- bustion. {(1) The fire grate, to support the burning cliarcoal.