757 INDIGO PURPLE—INDIGOTIN. tion of lime omitted. For use, a portion of this ^preparation vaV is ladled into the ‘ dyeing vat/ as wanted. After being employed for some time, the vat must be refreshed with a little more copperas and fresh-slaked lime, when the sediment must be well stirred up, and the whole thoroughly mixed together. This is the common vat for cotton. b. (Potash vat.) Take indigo, in fine powder, 12 lb.; madder, 8 lb.; bran, 9 lb. ; ‘potash/ 21 lb.; water at 125° Fahr., 120 cubic feet; mix well; at the end of about 36 hours add 14 lb. more potash, and after 10 or 12 hours longer further add 10 lb. of potash, and rouse the whole up well; as soon as the fermentation and reduction of the indigo are well developed, which generally takes place in about 72 hours, add a little fresh-slaked lime. This vat dyes very quickly, and the goods lose less of their colour in alkaline and soapy so- lutions than when dyed in the common vat. It is well adapted for woollen goods. c. (WOAD VAT.) As the last, but employing woad instead of madder; the vat is ‘set^ at 160° Fahr., and kept at that temperature until the deoxidation and solution of the indigo has commenced. The last two are also called the ‘warm vat.’ d. (Pastel vat.) This is ‘set’ with a variety of woad which grows in France, and which is richer in colouring matter than the plant commonly known as ‘ woad.’ Obs. Wool, silk, linen, and cotton, may each be dyed blue in the indigo vat. The goods, after being passed through a weak alkaline solution, are subjected to the action of the vat for about fifteen minutes; they are then freely exposed to the air; the im- mersion in the vat and the exposure are re- peated until the colour becomes sufficiently deep. Woad and madder improve the rich- ness of the dye. Other deoxidizing substances, besides those above mentioned, may be used to effect the solution of the indigo; thus a mixture of caustic soda, grape sugar, indigo, and water, is often employed on the Continent for this purpose; and orpiment, lime, and pearlash are also occasionally used. When properly prepared, the indigo vat may be kept in action for several months by the addition of one or other of its constituents, as required. An excess of either copperas or lime should be avoided. 2. Solution of sulphate of indigo is added to water, as required, and the goods, previously boiled with alum, are then immersed in it, and the boiling and immersion are repeated until the wool becomes sufficiently dyed. Obs. With tins every shade of blue may be dyed, but it is most commonly employed to give a ground to logwood blues. The colouring matter has affinity for woollen and silk with or without ‘mordant,’ but none for COTTON. A solution of soluble indigo (sulphin- dylate of potassa or soda), in wafer very slightly acid with sulphuric acid, imparts a very fine blue to cloth, superior in tint to that given by the simple sulphate. See Dyeing, &c. INDIGO PURTLE. Syn. Phcenicine. The name given by Mr. Crum to the purple pre- cipitate obtained by filtration from a solution of indigo in fuming sulphuric acid, when largely diluted with water. INDIGO RED. Syn. Indigo resin. Red RESIN OE INDIGO. This is prepared by boiling alcohol (sp.gr. ’830), on powdered indigo pre- viously exhausted by digestion in dilute acids and in a strong alkaline solution. When heated, it is converted into a white sublimate (deox- idized INDIGO red), but recovers its red colour by the action of nitric acid. INDIGO WHITE. Syn. Indigogene, In- DicYLE, Reduced indigo. Hydrogenized i.. Hydrate oe i. Reduced or deoxidized indigo blue. Prep. The yellow alkaline solution obtained by one or other of the processes noticed under Indigotin is carefully protected from the air, both before and after precipitation with hy- drochloric acid; and the precipitate, after being rapidly washed with recently boiled dis- tilled water, or with very dilute sulphurous acid, is drained on a filter, dried in vacuo, and then at once transferred to a well-stoppered bottle. Prop., Sfc. A grayish-white mass of minute crystals, generally light blue on the surface, and rapidly turning blue on exposure to the air; soluble in alkalies, alcohol, and ether, to which it imparts a yellow colour. These so- lutions deposit indigo blue on exposure to the air. A solution of this substance constitutes the indigo vat of the dyer (see above). INDIGO'TIN. Syn. Cerulin, Indigo blue. This is the pure blue principle of indigo. It appears to be the oxide of the same organic radical of which indigo white is probably the hydrate. Prep. 1. Indigo (in fine powder) is digested successively in dilute hydrochloric acid, solution of potassa, and alcohol; dried residuum is crude indigotin. 2. Indigo (in fine powder), 1 part; green sulphate of iron, 2 parts; hydrate of lime, 3 parts; water, 15 parts; mix, agitate occa- sionally until the colour is destroyed, then de- cant the clear portion, precipitate with dilute hydrochloric acid, and wash the powder, first with water, and then with boiling alcohol, until the latter ceases to acquire a yellow colour. 3. Caustic soda and grape sugar, of each, 1 part; water, 20 parts; powdered indigo, 5 parts; mix, and proceed as last. The above are essentially the same as the indigo vat, but on the small scale. 4. The process for estimating the value of indigo given under Indigo is a good process for obtaining indigotin. Ohs. The product from all the above exceeds 50g of the indigo operated on. 5. (Taylor.) Powdered indigo, 2 parts; plaster of Paris, 1 part; water, q. s. to reduce