PASTRY. 1040 the addition or substitution of other perfumes or aromatics. Cheaper pastilles may be made by simply increasing the quantity of the char- coal and saltpetre. The whole of the ingre- dients should be reduced to fine powder before mixing them. The use of musk and civet, so often ordered in pastilles, should be avoided, as they yield a disagreeable odour when burned. The addition of a little camphor renders them more suitable for a sick chamber. The simplest and most convenient way of forming the mass into cones, is by pressing it into a mould of lead or porcelain. Pastilles are burned either to diffuse a plea- sant odour, or to cover a disagreeable one. For this purpose they are kindled at the apex, and set on an inverted saucer or a penny-piece to burn. Persons who use them frequently employ a small china or porcelain toy (‘pas- tille HOUSE ’) sold for the purpose. Mouth Pastils. Syn. Breath pills, Ca- CHOU LOZENOES; PaSTILLI COSMETICI, L. j Cachou aeomatise, C. arohatique, C. he Bologna, Grains he cachou, Fr. Prep. 1. Soft extract of liquorice, 3 oz.; gum catechu and white sugar, of each, 1 oz.; gum tragacanth (powdered), ^ oz.; oil of cloves, 1 dr.; oil of cassia, ^ dr.; essence of ambergris and oil of nutmeg, of each, 12 drops; make a firm mass with rose or orange-flower water, q. s., and divide it into one-grain pills; when these are dry, cover them with gold or silver leaf. 2. Solazzi juice (dried by a gentle heat and powdered), 4 oz.; lump sugar, 3 oz.; pow- dered catechu, 2 oz.; powdered tragacanth, 1 oz.; oil of cloves, 2 fl. dr.; oil of cassia, 1 fl. dr.; white of egg or rose water, q. s. to form a pill- mass ; as before. 3. Powdered catechu, 1 oz.; Solazzi juice, 4 oz.; lump sugar, 12 oz.; oils of cloves, cassia, and peppermint, of each, 1 fl. dr.; mucilage of tragacanth, q. s. to mix; as before. 4. Extract of liquorice (soft), 2 oz.; white sugar, 3 oz.; powdered tragacanth and casca- rilla (or orris root), of each, ^ oz. ; oil of cloves, ^ fl. dr. j oil of cassia, 12 drops; water, q. s.; as before. 5. (Chevallier.) Powdered coffee, chocolate, and sugar, of each, 1^ oz.; powdered vunilla and freshly burnt charcoal, of each, 1 oz.; mucilage of tragacanth, q. s. 6. Chloride of lime (dry and good), 1 dr.; white sugar, 3 oz.; powdered tragacanth, 1 oz.; oil of cloves, 30 drops; rose water, q. s. To disinfect the breath. Obs. Almost every maker employs his own forms for these articles. The objects to be aimed at are the possession of a rather power- ful and persistent odour, and a toughness to prevent their too rapid solution in the mouth. The original Italian formula included liquorice, mastic, cascarilla, charcoal, orris root, oil of peppermint, and the tinctures of ambergris and musk, but is now seldom employed in this country. The flavour of peppermint does not, indeed, appear to be approved of by English smokers. Sometimes, instead of being mad perfectly spherical, they are flattened a littli Cachou a l’Ambre Gris, Cachou a i Canelle, Cachou a la Fleurs d’ Orang] Cachou Musque, Cachou a la Rose, C.\ CHOU A LA VaNILLE, CACHOU A LA ViOLETTJ &c., are merely flavoured and scented respec tively with the essences or oils of ambergri: cinnamon, neroli, musk, rose, vanilla, violet; &c. See Breath, Cachou Aeomatise, Lc ZENGES, Pills, &c. PA"STRY. Articles of food made of ‘ paste or dough, or of which ‘ paste ’ forms a princi pal and characteristic ingredient. The wor is popularly restricted to those which contai PUFF PASTE, or such as form the staple pro ductions of the modern pastrycook; but it i: in reality, of much more general signification Several varieties of paste are prepared fo difterent purposes, of which the following ar the principal:— Puff Paste. The production of a first class puff paste is commonly regarded as matter of considerable difficulty, but by tli exercise of the proper precautions it is, on th contrary, an extremely simple affair. Thi paste, before being placed in the oven, consist of alternate laminse of butter or fat and ordi nary flour dough, the latter being, of course the thicker of the two. During the proces of baking, the elastic vapour disengaged, bein' in part restrained from flying off by the but tered surfaces of the dough, diffuses itsel between these laminae, and causes the mass t< swell up, and to form an assemblage of thii membranes or flakes, each of which is mor or less separated from the other. Individually these flakes resemble those of an ordinary rid / unleavened dough when baked; but, collec- tively, they form a very light crust, possessin; an extremely inviting appearance and ai agreeable flavour. The precautions above referred to are—th use of perfectly dry flour, and its conversioi into dough with a ‘ light hand,^ avoiding un necessarily working it,—the use of butter fre from water or buttermilk, and which has beei reduced to precisely the same degree of plas ticily as the dough between which it is to h rolled,—conducting the operation in a coo apartment, and, after the second or thin folding of the dough, exposing it to a rathe- low temperature before proceeding furthe with the process; and, lastly,—baking th paste in a moderately smart but not too ho an oven. The following are examples: 1. {Rich.) Take of four, 1 lb.; butter, lb.; cold spring water, q. s.; make a mode rately soft flexible dough, then roll in (a described above) of dry fresh butter, ^ lb. 2. (Ordinary.) Take of four, 1 lb.; cole water, q. s.; make a dough, and roll in, a before, of butter, 6 oz. n 3. (Rundell.) Take i peck of four, ruH into it 1 lb. of butter, and make a ‘light pastej| with cold water, just stiff enough to worl*