CASSOLETTES—CATECHINE. 404 medicinal plants. The ‘^purging cassia/'’ Cassia fistula (Linn.), produces pods containing a soft, blackish pulp, which is oihcinal in Ph. L. & E. (See below, also Senna.) Cassia Pulp. ,S'?/ra.CASSiA prjepaea'ta, L.(Ph. L.). Prep. The cassia (pods or fruit), broken lengthwise, are macerated in sufficient distilled water to cover them, for six hours, constantly stirring; and the “purified pulp” strained through a hair sieve, and evaporated to the consistence of a confection in a water hath. Dose. As a mild laxative, 1 to 2 dr.; as a purga- tive, I oz. to oz. CAS'SOLETTES (Scented). See Pastilles and Peepumeey. CAS'TOE. Sijn. Casto"eetjm, L. (Ph. L. E. & D.). “ The follicles of the prepuce of the Castor fiber or beaver, filled with a peculiar secretion.” (Ph. L.) “ A peculiar secretion from the prseputial follicles.” (Ph. E. and D.) It is often sophisticated; a fraud readily de- tected by the “ absence of the membranous partition in the interior of the bags, as well as by the altered smell and taste.” (Ure.) Russian castor, which is very rare, may be dis- tinguished by a tincture of l-16th part in alcohol, being of the colour of deep sherry, while that with American castor is of the colour of London porter. (Pereira.) Dose. 1 to 2 dr. or more, in powder or made into pills; in nervous and spasmodic affections, especially in hysteria, epilepsy, and other like diseases of females. CAS'TORINE. Syn. Castoein'a,Castoeeum CAMPHOE. When castor is cut into small pieces and boiled in about 6 times its weight of alcohol, a crystalline substance (castorme) is deposited by the filtered tincture in cooling. By re-solution in alcohol, it may be obtained under theform of colourless, prismatic, acicukr crystals. Obs. Genuine Russian castor, although the most expensive, must be employed in the above process, as scarcely any castorine can be ob- tained from the American variety. Prop., «S^T. Castorine has the odour of CASTOE, and a coppery taste; it is inflammable, and is soluble both in ether and hot alcohol. CAS'TOE OIL. See Oils. CASTS. In preparing casts and moulds with gelatine, wax, fusiUe metal, and similar substances, it is important to use them at the lowest temperature compatible with fluidity; as Avhen only a few degrees hotter, the water which adheres to the things from which the casts are taken, is converted into vapour, and produces bubbles. Fusible metal may be al- lowed to cool in a teacup until just ready to set at the edges, and then poured into the moulds. In this way beautiful casts from moulds of wood, or of other similar substances, may be procured. When taking impressions from gems, seals, &c., the fused alloy should be placed on ])aper or pasteboard, and stirred about till it becomes pasty, from Incipient cooling, at which moment the gem, die, or seal, should be suddenly stamped on it, and a very sharp impression will then be obtained. See Absorbent SrEEACES, Moulds, &c. CATALEP'SY. Syn. Teance; Catalep'sis, Catalep'sia, L. a disease in which the organs of sense and motion cease to exercise their functions, and the heart and lungs feebly per- form their offices, and in a scarcely perceptible manner. The paroxysm generally comes on without previous warning, and its duration varies from a few' minutes to several days, and if medical reports are to be credited, sometimes for a much longer period. Dr. Cullen seriously affirms that this disease is always counter- feited. Treat. Ammoniacal stimulants applied to the nostrils, and spirituous liquors injected into the stomach, with general friction of the body, and free access to pure air, are the best remedies. Electricity and galvanism should also be had recourse to, when the necessary apparatus is at hand. CAT'APLASMS. See Poultices. CAT'AEACT. An opaque condition of the lens of the eye. It is a common cause of blind- ness. It can only be cured by a surgical ope- ration. CATAEEH'. Syn. CataPvEh'us, L. The “ cold in the head,” or “ cold on the chest,” of domestic medicine. Infiuenza is a severer form of this complaint, and has been called epidemic catarrh. The common symptoms of catarrh are a copious discharge from the eyes and nose, a hoarseness, and generally a cough, more or less severe. The exciting causes are sudden changes of temperature, and exposure to cur- rents of cold air w'hile the body is heated; hence the frequency of colds in hot and changeable weather. Treat. A light diet should be adopted, and animal food and fermented and spirituous liquors should be particularly avoided. Some mild aperient should be administered; and when the symptoms are severe, or fever or headache is present, small diaphoretic doses of antimonials, accompanied by copious draughts of diluents, as barley-water, weak tea, or gruel, should be taken. This treatment, ex- cept in very bad cases, will generally effect a cure. CAT'ECHINE. Syn. Catechu'ic acid. Re- sinous tan'nin. When cubical gambie, or CATECHU, in powder, is treated with cold water, a portion remains undissolved. This is cate- chine. By repeated solutions in alcohol, it may be obtained under the form of Avhite, silky, acicular crystals. Prop., Sfc. Catechine strikes a green colour with the salts of iron, but does not precipitate gelatine. When dissolved in caustic potassa, and the solution exposed to the air, it ab- > sorbs oxygen, and japonic acid is formed. If, instead of caustic potassa, carbonate of po-1 tassa is employed, it is converted into rtibic acid.