ALUMINIUM. 128 heated, &c., as in the last process; a 2)latinum crucible, lined with magnesia, being employed. The proportions may be those of the next formula. b. (Prof. Rose.^) From a mixture of kryolite and fused chloride of potassium, of each, in powder, 5 parts; sodium (as in 2, c.), 2 parts; a cast-iron crucible being employed; the re- sulting minute globules being collected and fused to a ‘ button ^ under a layer of the double chloride of aluminium and sodium. c. As 2, c.; but substituting kryolite for ‘ fluor-spar.’ Prop., 6fc. Aluminium, when quite pure, closely approaches silver in appearance, except in being rather less white and lustrous than that metal. Ordinary specimens, called ‘ pure,’ have a slight bluish tint or tin-white colour, with a perfect lustre, but far inferior to that of pure silver. Sp. gr., 2*56 (about that of glass), which by ‘ hammering ’ may be raised to 2-67. It is both ductile and malleable; fuses at a temperature between the melting points of zinc and silver; is not affected by either damp or dry air, or by oxygen at ordi- nary temperatures, or by water whether cold or boiling; even steam, at a red heat, is only slowly decomposed by it. It is not acted on by nitric acid, however concentrated, unless boilings and then very slowly ; nor by dilute sulphuric acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, and the sulphurets, or even the fused hydrates of the alkalies. It is, however, readily dissolved by hydrochloric acid, with the evolution of hy- drogen, even in the cold; and by a concen- trated mixture of nitric and sulphuric acid. It is feebly magnetic, conducts electricity about 8 times better than iron, and is more electro-negative than even zinc. Commercial specimens, owing to the presence of iron and silicon, and often zinc, usually slowly tarnish in damp air, and possess the other properties de- scribed above in a somewhat diminished degree. In a finely divided state, particularly in the state of powder or minute scales in which it was originally obtained {see foi'mula 1, above), when heated to redness, it catches Are and burns with great rapidity in the air, and in oxygen gas with intense brilliancy, the product in each case being alumina; heated to redness in the vapour of q^hosphorus, it burns vividly, and produces SESQTJiPHOS'rHUKET of alu- minium ; mixed with selenium and exposed to heat, a blackish powder (selen'iueet of alum:inium) is formed; heated until strongly incandescent, small pieces of sulphur being dropped upon its surface, the most brilliant combustion ensues, with the formation of ses- quisul'phuret of aluminium. Both this and the seleniuret possess a semi-metallic lustre, and are easily decomposed by exposure and moisture. The only compound of alu- minium with oxygen is alumina. Muminium unites with the other metals, forming ALLOYS, of which some promise to be 1 See mte 6, v 127. of great value in the arts. An alloy of 100 parts of aluminium with 5 parts of silver, may be worked like the pure metal, but is harder and susceptible of a finer polish, whilst its property of not being affected by sulphu- retted hydrogen and acids remains unimpaired; even of silver is said to be sufficient to impart to it the full brilliance-ecaii colour of pure silver. An alloy containing lOg of gold is softer and scarcely so malleable as the pure metal. With 8^ of iron, or 10^ of copper, it still remains tough and malleable; but a larger proportion of either of these metals renders it brittle. The presence of 2 or 3^ of zinc destroys its ductility and malleability, and also impairs its colour and lustre; whilst less than even of bismuth renders it brittle in a high degree. Small quantities of aluminium added to other metals change their properties in a very remarkable manner. Thus, copper alloyed with lOg of aluminium has the colour and brilliancy of ‘ gold,’ is harder than bronze, very malleable, and may be worked at high temperatures easier than the best varieties of iron ; and with 200- is quite white, and closely resembles ‘silver.’ With more than 12g of aluminium the alloy is harder, but brittle. The alloy formed of 100 parts of silver with 5 parts of aluminium, is as hard as the ‘silver’ of our coinage, whilst the other properties of the latter metal remain unaltered.^ Accord- to Messrs. Calvert and Johnson,"^ iron alloyed with 25^ of aluminium does not rust by exposure to moist air, and possesses many other valuable properties. Uses. The valuable properties of aluminium adapt it to numerous applications in the arts and every-day life. Hitherto these have been very limited, owing to its comparatively high price ; which, notwithstanding it has fallen ' upwards of 90§ in 4 years, is still sufficient to prevent its general or even extensive applica- tion. The ‘ eagles’ of the French array have been made of it, as well as certain articles of: jewelry, plate, &c.,asbrooches, bracelets, chains, spoons, and other ornamental and useful ob- jects.'* Owing to its low sp. gr., it has been proposed as a suitable material for the minute decimal weights of chemists, for military helmets, trumpets, &c. A few cornet-^-pistons, for which its lightness and sonorousness ad- mirably adapt it, have actually been made of it. Its power of resisting oxygen, sulphu- retted hydrogen, moisture, &c., would render it invaluable as a coating to metals, particularly! 2 These statements ai’e principally founded on the re-j searches of Uehray, C. and J. Tissier, and Dr. Percy See “ Comptes Rendns,” xliii, 885, 925; “ Proc. of Roym Inst.,” Mar., 1856; &c. The Tissiers further assert, though; incorrectly, that the l-20th of iron or copper renders alu ; minium ‘ unworkableand that 1-lOth of copper, and even the 1-lOOOth part of bismuth, renders it as ‘ brittle as glass. 1 ^ Phil. Mag.,” 4 The inferior colour and brilliancy which commercia aluminium assumes under use, which somewhat resemble! that of slightly tarnished silver, but more of a bluish hue will, notwithstanding its other valuable properties, preven it ever becoming a favorite with the public for articles o jewelry and plate.