491 CRUCIBLE. i I I pseudo-membrane from the larynx nearly as fast as it is formed. For this purpose, M. Marotte employs one or other of the following formulae:— 1. Tartar emetic, 1^ gr.; syrup of ipeca- cuanha, 1 oz.; water, 2 oz. 2. Impure emetine, 3 gr.; syrup of ipe- cacuanha and water, of each, 1^ oz. These draughts are administered by spoon- fuls every ten minutes, until there has been a sufficient number of vomitings. In this manner he says he has been always able to make the patient expectorate a certain quan- tity of false membrane. This treatment is accompanied by the use of small doses of calomel, leeches to the throat, and blisters to the nape of the neck; but it is the opinion of M. Marotte that the vomitings alone effect the cure. Out of 25 cases that occurred at the Hopital des Enfans, the only authenti- cated case of cure among all these was effected by emetics. (M. Boudet.) The croup is a very dangerous disease, and medical aid should be immediately sought wherever it can be procured. It is principally confined to infancy, or to children under 9 years of age; but occasionally attacks adults. One of our early friends, a young medical practitioner of great promise, died of it, pre- maturely, after only about 20 hours’ illness. CRU'CIBLE. Syn. Melting pot; Ckuci- BULFM, L.; Creuset, Fr. A vessel used by metallurgists and chemists for holding sub- stances whilst they are exposed to a high temperature. The crucibles commonly used for fusing metals are formed of clay, or a mixture of plumbago and clay. For certain purposes, crucibles of platinum, iron, porcelain, and lime, are employed. Earth'en Crucibles. Syn. Clay crucibles. From f re-clay, mixed with silica, coke, burnt clay, or other infusible matter. Martuf. The materials, having been ground and kneaded, are generally moulded by hand upon a wooden block of the shape of the cavity of the crucible. Another method of shaping a crucible consists in ramming the ingredients into a suitable mould, formed of steel or gun-metal. (See engr.) a a. External steel mould. h b. Clay or compo- sition for forming the crucible. e, Internal steel mould. d d, Wooden stand. e. Cord or chain to withdraw the internal mould or plug. Small crucibles are sometimes formed by pouring * slip,’ that is, clay mixed with suffi- cient water to give it the consistence of cream, into porous moulds, made of a species of stucco. A series of these moulds are placed upon a table 2indL. filled with the semifluid composition. By the time the whole (say 50 or 60) are tilled, the * slip ’ may be poured out of the one first filled, leaving only a very small quantity behind to give the requisite thickness to the bottom. The second and third may then be treated in the same way, until the whole number have been attended to. In each mould a perfect crucible is formed, by the abstraction of the water of that portion of the ‘ slip ’ in immediate contact with the stucco, and the crucible is either thicker or thinner in proportion to the time this absorbent action has been allowed to go on. 70 or 80 crucibles may thus be easily made in less than 15 minutes. The moulds and their contents are next placed in a stove or slow oven. In a short time from the contraction of the clay in drying, the crucibles may be removed, and the moulds, as soon as they have become dry, may be again filled; by care they will last for years. Earthen crucibles are used both in the burnt and unburnt state. Small crucibles are generally kiln-burnt before they are used, but the large Stourbridge clay ‘casting-pots,’ which are extensively employed in brass foundries, are never previously burnt. The following kinds of earthen crucibles are much used in the arts:— 1. (Cornish Crucibles.) From Teignmouth clay, 1 part; Poole clay, 1 part; sand from St. Agnes’s Beacon, Cornwall, 2 parts. “ When smaller and less refractory crucibles are needed, the same mixture is employed, with the addition of an eighth part of China-clay, or Kaolinite from St. Austell.” (Percy.) These crucibles are generally made round, and of two sizes, of which one fits into the other; the larger being 3 inches in diameter at the top, and 3^ inches high outside measure. They are coarse in grain, and of a grayish-white colour, spotted with dark specks. They are always kiln-burnt. “Of all crucibles, none are more generally useful for metallurgical experiments.” (Percy.) 2. (Hessian Crucibles.) From a mixture of equal weights of Almerode clay and sand. They are generally triangular in shape, so that the melted metal may be conveniently poured out from each corner. They are usually sold in ‘ nests ’ of six crucibles, fitting one in another. In the character of their body, and in composition and qualities, they closely resemble the Cornish. 3. (London Crucibles.)—a. From a very refractory clay. They have a reddish-brown colour, and are close in grain. They are exceedingly useful in assaying, as they resist the action of fused oxide of lead much better than most clay crucibles. Being very liable to crack, they require to be used with care. b. (White Fluxing-pots.) From a pecu- liar hind of foreign clay. They are manu- factured by the Patent Plumbago Crucible Company, and are much esteemed by metal-