8SG MARGARIC ACID—MARMALADE. liquid colours must be allowed to run over them. The film of colour in the trough may be as thin as possible; and if any remains after the marbling, it may be taken off by applying paper to it before you prepare for marbling again. This process has been called ‘ Eeencu maebling.’ To diversify the effect^ a little sweet oil Is often mixed with the colours before sprinkling them on, by which means a light halo or circle appears round each spot. In like manner, spirit of turpentine, sprinkled on the surface of the trough, produces white spots. By staining the covers with any of the liquid dyes, and then dropping on them, or running over them, drops of the ordinary liquid mordants, a very pleasing effect may be produced. Vinegar Hack, or a solution of green copperas, thus applied to common leather, produces black spots or streaks, and gives a similar effect with most of the light dyes. A solution of alum or of tin in like manner produces bright spots or streaks, and soda or potash water dark ones. This style has been called Egyptian maeble. —Soap maebling is done by throwing on the colours, ground witli a little white soap to a proper consistence, by means of a brush. It is much used for book-edges, stationery, sheets of paper, ladies’ fancy work, &c.—Theead MAEBLE is given by first covering the edge uniformly of one colour, then laying pieces of thick thread irregularly on difterent parts of it, and giving it a fine dark sprinkle. When well managed, the effect is very j)leasing.— Rice maeble is given in a similar way to the last by using rice.—Teee maeble is done on leather book-covers, &c., by bending the board a little in the centre, and running the marbling liquid over it in the form of vegetation. The knots are given by rubbing the end of a candle on those parts of the cover.—Wax maeble is given in a similar way to thread marble, but using melted wax, which is removed after the book is sprinkled and dried; or a sponge charged with blue, green, or red, may be passed over. This, also, is much used for stationery work, especially for folios and quartos. The * viNEGAE BLACK ’ of the bookbinders is merely a solution of acetate of iron, made by steeping a few rusty nails or some iron filings in vinegar. All the ordinary liquid colours that do not contain strong acids or alkalies may be used, either alone or thickened with a little gum, for marbling or sprinkling books. Speinkling is performed by simplj^ dipping a stiff-haired painter’s brush into the colour, and suddenly striking it against a small stick held in the left hand over the work. By this means the colour is evenly scattered without producing ‘ blurs ’ or ' blots.’ Papee, pasteboaed, &c., in sheets, are marbled and sprinkled in a similar manner to that above described, but in this case the gum trough must, of course, be longer. MAEGARTC acid, a fatty acid obtained by the saponification of oils, so named by Lecanu on account of the pearly appearance of its crystals. Prep. 1. Dissolve olive-oil soap in loater, and precipitate the solution with a solution of neutral acetate of lead; filter, wash, and dry the precipitate (maegaeate op lead), digest it in ether, and decompose the residuum by boiling-hot hydrochloric acid; lastly, wash the precipitated acid, and dissolve it in boiling alcohol; the solution furnishes crystals on cooling. 2. Heat hydrated stearic acid with its own weight of nitric acid for some minutes; press the fatty acid which separates between folds of paper, and purify it by repeated crystalli- zations from boiling alcohol. Prop., S{c. Margaric acid forms pearly scales, soluble in cold ether and alcohol; the solution reddens litmus; it is volatile at a high temperature, and boils before being vola- tilized ; assisted by heat, it decomposes the alkaline carbonates. It fuses at 140° Fahr. With the bases it forms salts called mae- GAEATES. Obs. The recent researches ^ of Heintz have thrown some doubts on the exist- ence of maegaeic acid and maegaein. The former is said to be a mixture of steaeic and PALMITIC ACIDS, and the latter a mixture of STEAEiN and PALMiTiN. (See below.) MAE'GARIR. Syn. Maegaeate op oxide OP GLYCEEYLE. The solid fatty matter of certain vegetable oils, and the principal ingre- dient of human and goose fat. Prep. A hot alcoholic solution of either of the above fats, or of the concrete portion of olive oil, deposits, as it cools, a mixture of maryarate and oleate of glyceryle; it is puri- fied by compression between the folds of bibu- lous paper and solution in hot ether. Prop., 8j-c. It greatly resembles stearine, but is more fusible and pearly looking; it melts at 116° Fahr.; dissolves in cold ether and in alcohol; and by saponification yields GLYCEEiN and MAEGAEIC ACID. (See above.) MAR'GARONE. a peculiar fatty substance, obtained by distilling a mixture of quicklime and margaric acid. It forms pearly, crystalline scales, and is incapable of saponification. MARINE' ACID. See Hydeochloeic Acid. MARL. A compound of clay and chalk, with sand. It is characterised by effervescing with acids. According to the predominance of one or other of its component parts, it is called argillaceous, calcareous, or sandy marl. It is very generally employed as a manure for sandy soils, more particularly in Norfolk. See Soils. MAR'MALADE. Originally, a conserve made of quinces and sugar; now commonly applied to the conserves of other fruit, more especially to those of oranges and lemons. Prep. Marmalades are made either by pounding the pulped fruit in a mortar with an equal or a rather larger quantity of pow- dered white sugar, or by mixing them to- gether by heat, passing them through a hair