EXTRACT. 619 mabrubii, L. Prep, 1. From i\xe fresh herb, I as EXTEACT OF ACONITE. 2. From the infusion or decoction. Anti- spasniodic, pectoral, tonic, and emmenagogue. Dose. 10 gr. to 1 dr. 3. (Ph. Baden.) By displacement with cold water. 4. (Alcoholic; Extractum maretjbii alco- iilOLicUM, L.)—a. From a tincture made with \\)roof spirit. Said by M. Thoriel to possess considerable power as a febrifuge. Dose. 5 gr. to 20 gr. I b. (Ph. Lnsit.) From a tincture made with !a mixture of rectified spirit, 1 part, and 7 parts. Inferior to the last. Extract of Ind'ian Hemp. Syn. Cannabine, IHemp resin, Alcoholic extract of Indian IheMP; EXTRACTUM CANNABIS InDIC^, E. C. I. ALCOHOLICHM, ReSINA CANNABIS, L. Prep. 1. (O’Shaughnessy.) The dried resinous tops of Indian hemp (‘ gunjah’) are boiled in recti- fed spirit until all the resin is taken up, when ^nost of the spirit is distilled off, and the evapo- jration completed by the heat of a water bath. jl cwt. yields about 7 lb. 2. (Robertson.) By slowly acting on the Vgunjah’ with the vapour of alcohol, by a species of percolation ; the spirit of the resulting tinc- ture is partly removed by distillation, and the rest by slow evaporation at a temperature not above 150° Fahr. 1 cwt. yields about 8 lb. 'Dose of the last two, 1 to 3 gr., gradually in- creased. I 3. (Messrs. Smith.) The bruised *gunjahl is lexhausted with tepid water, then with a solu- tion of carbonate of soda (1 of carbonate to 2 lof gunjah), and next with pure water ; it is jthen pressed, dried, and exhausted by displace- ment with rectified spirit; the tincture is agi- tated with a milk of lime (containing 1 oz. of lime for every lb. of gunjah), and after filtration ■ or decantation, any retained lime is precipi- ' tated by a little sulphuric acid in slight excess; the tincture is next agitated with animal char- coal, and again filtered; most of the spirit is now removed by distillation, and 3 or 4 times its bulk of water being added, the remaining spirit is removed by a gentle heat; lastly, the remaining water is poured off, and the resin washed with fresh water, and dried. Product, |6g. Commencing dose, \ gr. 4. (Purified; ExTRACTUM CANNABIS iNDICiE PURIFICATUM, L.—Ph. D.) From the crude extract of Indian hemp, as imported (‘chtjrrijs’), 1 oz.; rectified spirit, 4 fi. oz.; dissolve, and after defecation, decant, and evaporate. Obs. The preparations of Indian hemp are said to be anmsthetic, anodyne, hypnotic, sti- jmulant, phrenic, and aphrodisiac, and, in over- doses, to produce catalepsy. They have been recommended in hysteria, hydrophobia, cholera, rheumatism, chorea, convulsions, and various other painful spasmodic and nervous affections of a serious character. According to the ob- servations of Dr. O’Shaughnessy, 1 gr. of the extract produced catalepsy in a rheumatic patient. The extract prepared with the plant grown in our botanic gardens has quite a differ- ent effect to that of the Indian plant; and it also appears that the inhabitants of this coun- try are less susceptible to its action than those of India, and consequently bear the drug in larger doses. This hemp is known in India as the ‘ increase!* of pleasure,’ the ‘ exciter of desire,’ the ‘ cementer of friendship,’ the ‘causer of a reeling gait,’ the ‘laughter- mover,’ &c. See Extract of Hemp {above). Hemp, &c. Extract of Ipecac'uanha. Syn. Extracttjm iPECACiTANHiE, L. Prep. 1. (P. Cod.) From ipecacuanha, as extract of box—P. Cod. 2. (Ph. Bor.) As EXTRACT OF henbane SEEDS. Expectorant and emetic. Dose. 1^ to 8 gr. Extract of I'ron. 8yn. Extracthm ferri, E. martis, L. From tincture of tartarized iron. Dose, 2 to 10 gr.; as a chalybeate tonic. 2. (Compound.) See Extract of Apple. Extract of Jal'ap. Syn. Extracttjm jalap.® (Ph. L.), E. SITE RESINA JALAP.® (Ph. E.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Jalap (powdered), 2| lb.; rectified spirit, 1 gall.; digest 4 days, and ex- press the tincture; boil the ‘ marc ’ in water, 2 gall., until reduced to gall.; filter the tincture and decoction separately, and let the one distil and the other evaporate until each thickens; lastly, mix the two and complete the evaporation. Product. About 66g, = 16g of alcoholic and 50g of aqueous extract. (Brande.) 18 lb. yield 12 lb. of extract. (Lab. Journ.) Dose. 6 to 15 gr. 2. (Ph. E.) From tincture of jalap prepared by displacement with rectified spirit. It con- sists of impure resin of jalap. It is more active than the last. Prod. 16§. Dose. 2 to 6 gr. Obs. Extract of jalap is an active purgative. It should be well beaten up with a little sul- phate of potassa, sugar, or some aromatic pow- der, to prevent it griping. The substance commonly sold as extract of jalap in the shops is prepared by boiling jalap root for 3 or 4 hours in water, when it is taken out, and well bruised or sliced, and again boiled with water until exhausted of soluble matter. The mixed decoctions are then alloived 12 or 14 hours for defecation, after which the supernatant por- tion is decanted and evaporated. Extract of jalap “ should be kept in the soft state'(extracttjm jalap®, e. j. molle), so as to form pills; and in the hra*d state ( hard EXTRACT OF JALAP ; EXTRACTTJM JALAP® DH- rtjm), that it may be rubbed to powder.” (Ph. L.) Extract of Ju'niper. Syn. Extracttjm JUNiPERi, E. BACCARUM J,, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) Macerate berries m water 2it 77° to 86° Fahr., for 24 hours, strain, repeat the process with a fresh quantity of water, mix the liquors, filter, and evaporate. Dose. 20 gr. to 1 dr.; as a stimulant diuretic, in dropsy, &c.; and also as a piU-basis, 1