BENZOIC ACID. S04 is gradually added, until all the free acid pre- sent is neutralised; water, equal to about twice the weight of the benzoin employed, is next poured in, and the ‘alcohol’ removed by distillation. The floating resin is now skimmed off the ‘residual liquid,’ and washed with a little water, and the ‘washings ’ added to the contents of the retort, which will deposit crystals of ‘ benzoate of soda' on cooling, and more by subsequent evaporation. From this salt the BENZOIC acid is obtained by satura- ting the alkali with an acid (as \^lQhydrochloric), and by subsequent sublimation of the crude })recipitated crystals. 3. Other Methods:— a. Ordinary hippuric acid is very gently boiled, for about 15 minutes, in nitric acid ^ (sji. gr. 1‘42) ; water is then added, and the solution allowed to cool and crystallise. The crystals are collected on a filter, washed with a little very cold water, dried by pressure in bi- bulous paper, and lastly, purified by sublima- tion, as before. h. From the urine of horses, cows, and other graminivorous animals, in a similar way to that by which ‘hippuric acid’ is obtained, only allowing the urine to acquire a slight degree of putridity before evaporation, which last should be effected by a heat slightly under that of ebullition. The ‘ crude acid’ thus obtained is purified as previously directed. Obs. Large quantities of benzoic acid are said to be obtained in this way on the Con- tinent ; but, owing to the process being clum- sily conducted, it is generally of inferior quality, and hence unsaleable. It may, how- ever, by skilful purification, be rendered quite equal to that obtained from gum benzoin.^ Prop. When obtained by sublimation ben- zoic acid forms soft, light, feathery, white, flexible crystals, which are transparent or semi-transparent, with more or less of a mo- ther-of-pearl lustre; when by slowly cooling its aqueous solution, or by precipitation from a solution of a benzoate, it forms either thin plates or scales, or a dazzling white crystalline pow- der. It is inodorous when cold,^ but acquires a faint balsamic odour when gently warmed; luses at about 212° Fahr., and begins to sub- lime freely at a temperature a little above it, but does not boil until heated to about 460°; burns with a bright yellow flame ; is very so- luble in alcohol, dissolves in about 200 parts of cold water, and about 25 parts of boiling water; resists the action of ordinary nitric acid even when boiling; and forms salts (ben'- ZOATES) with the bases. Sp. gr., 0’667. Its vapour, which is very suffocating and irrita- ting, has a density of 4*27. Added to fat and 1 Hydrochlonc acid as well as sulphuric acid also con- vert ‘hippuric acid’ into benzoic acid; as does likewise a sutticieni degree of heat. See Hippuric Acid. * “A niaiiutaclory of sal-aninn.niae, near Magdeburgh, ■w Inch uses urine, is able to supply flowers of benjamin by the cwt.” (Gray.) 3 That of the shops usually smells slightly of benzoin, owing to the presence of a trace of volatile oil. fatty substances it either prevents, or greatly retards, the accession of rancidity. Tests, 4'c. It may be recognised—1. By its physical properties (appearance, fusibility, vo- latility, odour, &c.) already enumerated :—2. , i By its ready solubility in solutions of the al- kalies; and by being precipitated from these solutions, on the addition of one of the stronger acids, under the form of a dazzling-white pow- der, which is only sparingly soluble in cold water:—3. By its neutral salts with the alkalies, or its neutral solution in an alkali, giving a bulky, flesh-coloured precipitate with sesqui- j chloride of iron, which is insoluble in water :— j 4. By its solution not being precipitated by j acetate of lead until after neutralisation with I a fixed alkali, when the acetate produces a j white, flocculent precipitate :—5. By a mixture of alcohol, ammonia, and solution of chloride of barium, neither disturbing a solution of the free acid, nor that of one of its salts with the alkalies. It is chemically distinguished from CINNAMIC ACID by not yielding essential oil of almonds when it is distilled with oxidising agents, as chromic acid or a mixture of bichromate of potassa and sulphuric acid; and from SUCCINIC ACID, by its different deportment with sesqui- chloride of iron (Test 3., ante), and with a mixture of alcohol, ammonia, and solution of chloride of barium (7'. 5., ante). Estim.—1. By weighing it as benzoic acid, obtained either by precipitation, or by very careful sublimation in a glass apparatus ;—2. By neutralising its alcoholic or aqueous solu- tion, by the usual method of acidimetry:— 3. By precipitating its neutral solution with acetate of lead, or with sesquichloride of iron, and weighing the carefully washed and dried precipitate either as benzoate of lead, or as benzoate of sesquioxide of iron. Pur., ^c. “ Crystals ; white, or nearly so. I It volatilises (totally) by heat, cautiously ap- I plied, exhaling a peculiar odour j is only ! slightly soluble in water, copiously so in recti- fied spirit. It is (freely) soluble in solutions of ammonia, potassa, soda, and lime, and is precipitated from them by hydrochloric acid.” (Ph. L. 1851.) “ 24 parts of boiling water dis- solve 1 part of benzoic acid, and again deposits the greater portion on cooling.” (Ph. L. 1836.) [ “ It is colourless, and is entirely sublimed by j heat.” (Ph. E. 1841.) It is sometimes met with adulterated with hippuric ACID, which j may be easily detected by its altered form, by I its diminished solubility in cold water, and by I its exhaling an odour of tonquin-beans, and j afterwards of hydrocyanic acid, when sub- limed. The presence of succinic acid may be readily detected by its greatly increased so- lubility in cold water; that of sugar, not only by its increased solubility, and partial volatility, but also by the odour of caramel being evolved on the application of sufficient heat, and the residuum being black and car- bonaceous ; that of CAMPHOR, by its peculiar