1393 APPENDIX. 2. (Yellow; Ceea FLAVA.) “The prepared honeycomb; British and imported.” White of Egg. Named in Appendix. Wines. The following formulae for the present officinal wines (vina) should be com- pared with those on pages 1349-50. Wine of Aloes (Vinum Aloes). Soco- trine aloes, 1^ oz.; cardamoms (ground), 80 gr.; ginger (in coarse powder), 80 gr.; sherry, 2 pints; digest 7 days, and strain through calico. Antimonial Wine (Vinum Antimoniale). Tartarated antimony, 40 gr.; sherry, 1 pint; dissolve. Wine of Colchicum (Vinum Colchicum). Macerate colchicum corm (dried and sliced), 4 oz., in sherry, 1 pint, for 7 days; press, and strain through calico; pour on the marc suffi- cient sherry to make up 1 pint, and, having pressed and strained as before, mix the fluids. Wine of Ipecacuan (Vinum Ipeca- CUanh.®). Ipecacuan (bruised), 1 oz.; sherry, 1 pint; macerate 7 days, with occasional agitation, strain, express, and filter. Wine of Iron (Vinum Febri). Tar- tarated iron, 160 gr.; sherry, 1 pint; dissolve. Wine of Opium (Vinum Opii). Opium (in powder), Ig oz.; sherry, 1 pint; macerate 7 days, strain, express, and filter; make up 1 pint with sherry, q. s. Zinc. This metal is named in the Appendix, as “ Zinc of Commerce ” and “ Granulated Zinc,” among articles employed in the pre- . paration of medicines. The officinal com- pounds of zinc are as follows:— Acetate of Zinc (Zinci Acetas). Intro- duced from the Ph. D., with a new process, which may be thus described:—Acetic acid, 3 fl. oz.; distilled water, 6 fl. oz.; mix, and heat gently; add, in successive portions, car- donate of zinc, 2 oz., and then, gradually, more acetic acid (2 fl. oz., or q. s.) till the car- bonate is dissolved; boil for a few minutes, filter while hot, and set aside for 2 days to crystallize. Decant the mother-liquor; eva- porate to one half, and set aside, as before. Drain the united crystals in a funnel, and dry them on filtering paper, without heat. (See page 1358.) Carbonate of Zinc (Zinci Carbonas). Sulphate of zinc, 10 oz.; carbonate of soda, 10|^ oz.; dissolve each salt in distilled water, 1 pint, and pour the solution of the latter into that of the former, stirring diligently; after effervescence has ceased, boil for 15 minutes, and let the precipitate subside; then decant the liquor, and agitate the,precipitate with boiling distilled water, 3 pints; let the precipitate again subside, and repeat the affusion process, until the washings cease to be affected by chloride of barium; collect on calico, drain, and dry at a gentle heat. Chloride of Zinc (Zinci Chloridum). To granulated zinc, 16 oz., contained in a por- celain basin, add, by degrees, hydrochloric acid, 44 fl. oz., diluted with distilled water, 1 pint; aid the action by a gentle sand heat until gas is no longer evolved; boil for ^ hour, sup- plying the water lost by evaporation, and allow it to stand on a cool part of the sand bath for 24 hours, stirring frequently; filter into a gallon bottle, and pour in, by degrees, solution of chlorine, with frequent agitation, until the fluid acquires a permanent odour of chlorine; add, gradually, carbonate of zinc oz., or q. s.), with renewed agitation, until a brown sediment apjiears; filter through paper into a porcelain basin, and evaporate until a drop withdrawn on a glass rod cools to an opaque white solid; finally, pour into proper moulds, and, when solid, but still warm, put it in air-tight bottles. Oxide of Zinc (Zinci Oxidum). Expose carbonate of zinc, 6 oz., to a dull red heat, in a loosely covered clay crucible, until a portion taken from the centre of the crucible ceases to cause effervescence when dropped into dilute sulphuric acid. Sulphate of Zinc (Zinci Sulphas). From granulated zinc, 16 oz.; sulphuric acid, 12 fl. oz., diluted with distilled water, 4 pints; solution of chlorine, q. s.; carbonate of zinc, ^ oz., or q. s. Proceed as for chloride of zinc {abov^, until the last stage of the process, which is to be modified by boiling the filtered solution till a pellicle forms, and setting aside to crystallize. Dry the crystals on filtering paper by exposure to the air. A second crop may be obtained by evaporating the mother- liquor. Valerianate of Zinc (Zinci Valerianas). The formula for this salt is a slight modifi- cation of that in Ph. D. (see page 1361). Sulphate of zinc, 5| oz.; valerianate of soda, 5 oz.; dissolve each in distilled water, 2 pints; raise both solutions to near the boiling-point, mix, cool, and skim off the crystals which are produced. Evaporate the mother-liquor at a heat not exceeding 200°, till it is reduced to 4 fl. oz.; cool again, remove crystals, and, having added them to the first crop, drain all on a paper filter, and wash them with a small quantity of cold distilled water, till the wash- ings give but a very feeble precipitate with chloride of barium; lastly, drain again, and dry on filtering paper at ordinary tempera- tures. 88