LEAD DUST—LEATHER. 828 garded as a plumbate of oxide of lead, or a compound of protoxide and binoxide of lead. This substance, manufactured on the large scale, forms the ‘ minium ’ or ‘ bed lead ^ of commerce. See Red PiaMENTS. 4. Binox'ide of Lead. Syn. Peeoxide oe LEAD, Puce oxide oe l.. Brown o. oe l.. Plumbic acid ; Plumbi binoxydum, L. Prep. By digesting red oxide of lead in dilute nitric acid; or by fusing a mixture of prot- oxide of lead and chlorate of potassa, at a heat a little below redness, and washing the pow- dered mass in water; or by transmitting a current of chlorine gas through a solution of neutral acetate of lead. This oxide gives up half its oxygen at a red heat; acids also decompose it. Its chief use is in chemical analysis, to separate sulphurous acid from certain gaseous mixtures, which it converts into sulphuric acid, which it at the same time absorbs, forming sulphate of lead. It has recently been employed as an oxidizing agent in the manufacture of the aniline dyes. It acts as a true acid, and forms with potassa a crystalline salt (plumbate oe potassa). Pyrolig'nite of Lead. Sugar of lead made with rough pyroligneous acid. Used in dyeing, chiefly for the preparation of acetate oe ALUMINA. Red Lead. See Binoxide oe Lead {above), and Red Pigments. Sac'charate of Lead. Syn. Plumbi sac- CHARAS, L. Prep. (Dr. S. E. Hoskins.) Nitric acid, 2 parts ; water, 10 parts ; mix in a porcelain capsule, add of sugar, 1 part; and apply heat until reaction ceases; then dilute the liquid with distilled water, neutralize it with powdered chalk, filter, and add to the fil- trate a solution of acetate of lead as long as a precipitate (saccharate oe lead) forms; lastly, collect the precipitate on a filter, wash and dry it. Used to make nitro-saccharate OE LEAD (see above), and as a source of sac- charic ACID (which see). Sul'phate of Lead. Syn. Plumbi sulphas, L. This salt occurs native in transparent octahedra (lead vitriol), and is obtained in large quantities as a by-product in the pre- paration of ACETATE OE ALUMINA for dyeing. Prep. By adding dilute sulphuric acid to a solution of a soluble salt of lead. It is very sparingly soluble in water and in dilute sul- phuric acid. Sul'phuret of Lead. Syn. Sulphide oe LEAD ; Plumbi sulphuretum, L. This occurs abundantly in nature in the form of galena. Prep. By fusing metallic lead with sulphur, or by passing sulphuretted hydrogen through a solution of lead. Tan'nate of Lead. Syn. Plumbi tannas, L. Prep. Precipitate a solution of acetate of lead with an inf usion of galls, and wash and dry the precipitate. Astringent, sedative, and hsemostatic. Bose. 1 gr. and upwards, made into a pill. It has been highly recommended in the form of ointment and cataplasms, in bed-sores, chronic ulcers of the feet, white i swellings, &c. ' Tar'trate of Lead. Syn. Plumbi tartras, ' ^ L. Prep. By precipitating acetate of lead by tartrate of ammonia, washing and drying. t Used to make lead pyrophorus. White Lead. See White Pigments. LEAD DUST. Syn. Pulvis plumbi, Plum- t BUM DivisuM, L. Prep. By melting new lead, adding bruised charcoal, mixing by violent agitation, which must be continued until the metal “ sets,” and then pounding and washing away the charcoal. Used by potters. LEAD PYROPH'ORUS. See Pyrophorus. » LEATH'ER. Syn. CoRiUM, corius, L. ’ Leather is the skin of animals which has been i prepared by one or other of several processes i| adopted for the purpose, having the common < object of preventing its spontaneous destruc- 1 tion by putrefaction, besides other objects, I which are more or less peculiar to each variety (» of this useful substance. Leather is only prepared on the large scale, \ and primarily either by the process of ‘tan- ning’ or ‘ TAWING,’ in the manner briefly de- i scribed under those heads. Curried leather is leather which has been i tanned, and sold to the currier, who, after soaking it in water, and rubbing it to soften it, pares it even with a broad, sharp knife, rubs it with a piece of polished stone or wood, and, whilst still wet, besmears it with oil or grease (dubbing), which gradually penetrates the leather as the moisture evaporates. It next undergoes the operation of ‘ waxing,’ which consists of first rubbing it on the fiesh side with a mixture of oil and lampblack ; it is then ‘ black-sized’ with a brush or sponge, and, when dry, is lastly ‘ tallowed’ with a proper cloth, and ‘ slicked’ upon the fiesh side > with a broad and polished lump of glass. ^ Leather curried on the hair or grain side, termed ‘ black on the grain,’ is blackened by wetting it with iron liquor, and rubbing it with an iron ‘ slicker’ before applying the oil or grease. The grain is finally raised by the ‘ pommel’ or ‘ graining board’ passed over it in various directions. Leather is dyed or stained by the appli- cation, with an ordinary brush, of any of the strong liquid dyes, in the cold or only gently heated, to the surface of the skin previously stretched on a board. The surface, when dry, is commonly finished off with white of egg and the pommel or smoothing stick. Bookbinders generally employ copperas water as a black stain or sprinkle ; a solution of indigo as a blue one ; and a solution of salt of tartar or common soda, as a brown one. Leather, before being japanned or varnished, as in the preparation of wliat is called ‘ ena- melled’ and ‘ PATENT LEATHER,’ is Carefully freed from grease by the application of ab- sorbent substances or hard pressure between rollers, and the surface is nicely shaved, smoothed, and polished by appropriate tools;