534 DRUMMOND-LIGHT—DUMBNESS. States of America this subject has also engaged the attention of the government and legisla- ture. Under the Act of the 26th June, 1848, inspectors were appointed to examine the quality of imported articles of this class, before allowing them to pass the Customs for home use. An abridged copy of the order addressed to the “ collectors and other officers under this this act” is appended, and will he useful to the reader, as assisting to establish a standard by which the value of the substances named therein may be estimated. Theasuet Depaetment, June Wi, 1853. The following articles are to he entitled to entry when ascertained by analysis to afford the per-centages as under, viz.:— Aloks, 80g of pure aloetic extract. Assafcetida, 60g of its peculiar Utter resin, and 3g of volatile oil. Cinchona baek.i Ig of pure quinine, or 2g of the several alkaloids, as qtiina, cinchona, quiiiidine, aiicine, &c. Benzoin, 80g of benzoin resin. Do. 12g of benzoic acid. CoLOCYNTii, 12g of colocynthine. Elateetum, oOg of elaterine. Galbanum, cog of resin. Do. log of pvm, and 6g volatile oil. Gamboge, 70g of pure gamboge resin, and 2g of gum. Guaiacum, 80g otptire guaiacum resin. Gum AMMONiACUM, 70g of resin, and 18g of gum. Jalap,* llg oipure jalap resin. Mybeh, 30g of pure resin, and 50g of gum. Opium, 9g of pure morphia. Ehubaeb,* 40g of soluble matter. Sagapenum, 50g of resin, 30g of gum, and 30g of volatile oil. Scammony', 70g of pure scammony resin. Senna, 28g of sohible matter. Medicinal leaves, foKcrs, barks, roots, extracts, &c., not specified above, must be, when imported, in perfect con- dition, and of as recent collection hhClpreparation as prac- ticable. Pharmaceutical and chemical preparations, whether crys- talhzed or otherwise, used in medicine, to ho pure, and of a proper consistence and strength, as well as of perfect manufacture, conformably with the standard authorities named in the Act; and must, in no instance, contain over og of excess of moisture or water of crystallization. Essential or volatile oils, and expressed oils used in medicine, must be pure and of the standard sp. gr. noticed and declared in the dispensatories named in the above act. "Patent” or "Secret Medicines” are by law subject to the same examination as other medicinal preparations, and cannot he permitted to pass the Custom-house for home con- sumption, but must be rejected and condemned, unless the special examiner is satisfied, after due investigation, that they 0X0 fit and safe to be used for medical purposes. An appeal frorii the examiner to the collector to be admitted within 10 days. James Gutheie, Secretary to the Treasury. DRUM'MOND LIGHT. See Light (Artificial). DEUNK'ENNESS. See Abstinence, In- TEMPEEANCE, &C. DRY'EES (Painter’s). Prep. 1. Litharge (best) ground to a paste with drying oil. For dark colours. 2. From white copperas and drying oil; as the last. 3. From sugar of lead and drying oil. The last two are for pale colours. 4. From ivhite copperas and sugar of lead, of each, 1 lb. ; pure white lead, 2 lb. For ‘ whites,^ * Of whatever denomination. * Hoot or powder. ® Only Tmkcy, East Indian, and Russian, admissible. and opaque light colours, grays, &c. Dryers are employed, as the name implies, to increase the drying and hardening properties of oil , paints. A little is beat up with them at the time of mixing them with the oil and turpen- tine for use. DRY'ING. See Desiccation, &c. DRYlNG-OIL. See Oils. DRY-ROT. A peculiar disease that attacks i wood, and renders it brittle and rotten. It is generally caused by dampness and the subse- quent development of the spores of fungi, par- . ticularly those of Merulius lacrymans and vas- : tutor and Polyporus destructor. The dry-rot principally attacks ‘ill-seasoned^ timber, and ^ more particularly that of ships and badly ven- i tilated buildings. Prev. Various means have been proposed to prevent the attacks of dry-rot, and to arrest • its progress when it has commenced, among < which the process called ‘ Ktanizing’ (Kyan’s r patent) is that most generally known and most • extensively adopted. It consists in immersing the timber in a bath of corrosive sublimate. \ The process termed ‘Paynizing^ (Payne's i patent) consists in first filling the pores with a i solution of chloride of calcium, under pressure, and next forcing in a solution of sulphate of iron, by which an insoluble sulphate of lime is i formed in the body of the wood, which is thus . rendered nearly as hard as stone. Wood so prepared is now largely employed in our public ( works and railways. Sir W. Burnett's pro- t cess (patented in 1836) consists in impregnating the timber with a solution of chloride of zinc. : Mr. J. Bethell’s process (patented in 1838) ; consists in thoroughly impregnating the wood with oil of tar containing creosote and a crude \ solution of acetate of iron, commonly called ‘ pyrolignite of iron.' The impregnation is effected in a strong cylindrical vessel, connected with a powerful air-pump, so that in the first instance, a vacuum being formed, and sub- sequently a iiressure of several atmospheres i applied, the liquid may as much as possible be < forced into all the pores of the wood. The t above processes for ‘ seasoning' preserve the .*■ timber not only from dry-rot, but from the ^ influence of the weather and the attacks of insects and worms. DUB'BING. Prep. 1. By boiling the waste f cuttings of sheep-skins in crude cod-oil. 2. Black resin, 2 lb.; tallow, 1 lb.; crude cod-oil ' or train-oil, 1 gall.; boil to a proper consist- ^ ence. Used by the curriers to dress leather, I and by .shoemakers and others to soften leather, | and to render boots and shoes waterproof. DUCK. See Poultey. DUCTIL'ITY is the property of being drawn J out in length without breaking. See Metals. ' DULCAMA'RA. See Nightshade (Woody). ] : DUMB'NESS. Syn. Aphonia, L. As speech is an acquired and imitative faculty, persons who are either born deaf or become so in early i > infancy are also, necessarily, dumb. The first I step in treating dumbness must therefore be * •