328 BLADDER—BLANCHING. ‘rest of the mucilage’; then further add of treacle^\\oz.; and afterwards, successively, of strong vinegar, 2 oz.; rectified spirit, 1 oz.; lastly, bottle for use. 3. Mix the ivhites of 2 eggs with a table- spoonful of spirit of wine, 2 large lumps of sugar (crushed), and finely-powdered ivory- black to give the required colour and thick- ness, avoiding excess. Obs. The above are chiefly used for dress boots and shoes. The first two are applied to the leather with the tip of the Anger, or a sponge, and then allowed to dry out of the dust. The third is commonly laid on with a sponge or soft brush, and when almost dry or hard may have its polish heightened with a brush or soft rubber, after which it is left for a few hours to harden. It may also be used to revive the faded black leather~seats and backs of old chairs. They all possess great brilliancy for a time; but are only adapted to clean, dry weather, or in- door use. They should all be applied to the leather as thinly as possible, as otherwise they soon crack off. Har'ness Blacking. Good glue or gelatine, 4 oz.; gum-arabic, 3 oz.; water, f pint; dis- solve by heat; add of treacle, 6 oz.; ivory- black (in very fine powder), 5 oz.; and gently evaporate, with constant trituration, until of a proper consistence when cold; when nearly cold put it into bottles, and cork them down. Eor use, the bottle may be warmed a little to thin it, if necessary. Does not resist the wet. 2. Mutton-suet, 2 oz.; bees-wax (pure), 6 oz.; melt, add of sugar candy (in fine powder), 6 oz.; soft soap, 2 oz.; lamp-black, 2^ oz.; indigo (in fine powder), | oz.; when thoroughly incorporated, further add of oil of turpentine, ^ pint; and pour it into pots or tins. 3. Bees-wax, 1 lb.; soft soap, 6 oz.; ivory- black, i lb.; Prussian blue, 1 oz.; (ground in) linseed-oil, 2 oz.; oil of turpentine, ^ pint; to be mixed, &c., as before. Obs. The above are used by laying a very little of them on the leather, evenly spreading it over the surface, and then polishing it by gentle friction with a brush, or a soft rubber. The last two are waterproof. Numerous compo- sitions of the class are vended by the sadlers and oilmen, but the mass of them are unchemi- cal mixtures, badly prepared, and cause disap- pointment to those who use them. Such is not the case with the products of the above formulae, if we may rely on the statements of those who have employed them for years. The last two are suitable for both harness and carriage-leather. See Heel Balls, &c. BLADD'ER. Syn. Ves'ica, L. ; Vessie, Fr.; Blase, Blattee, Ger. In anatomy, ^'c., a thin membranous sac or bag, in an animal, serving as a receptacle for some secreted fluid; appr., the urinary bladder. See Calculus, Inflammation, Ruptuee, &c. Bladd'ers. (In commerce.) The better qualities of these articles are prepared by cut- ting off the fat and loose membranes attached to them, and washing them first in a weak solution of chloride of lime, and afterwards in clear water; they are then blown out and submitted to strong pressure by rolling them under the arm, by which they become con- siderably larger; they are next blown quite tight, dried, and tied up in dozens. Com- moner qualities are merely emptied, the loose fat removed, and then blown out, and strung up to dry.—Used chiefly by druggists and oil- men to tie over pots, bottles, and jars, and to contain pill-masses, hard extracts, and other similar substances; also in surgery, to cover wounds, sore heads, &c.—Obs. Bladders should never be purchased unless perfectly dry and air-tight; as, if the reverse be the case, they will neither keep nor prove useful, but will rapidly become rotten and evolve a most offen- sive odour. If purchased whilst damp, they should be at once hung up in a current of air, so as to dry as soon as possible. BLAIN * (blane). A boil; a sore; a pus- tule. BLANC (blou^r). [Fr.] In cookery, a dish which, according to Mrs. Rundell, is formed of grated bacon and suet, of each, 1 lb. ; butter, ^ lb. ; 2 lemons ; 3 or 4 carrots (cut into dice) ; 3 or 4 onions; and a little water; the whole being simmered for a short time, wdth or without the addition of a glass of sherry or marsala, before serving. BLANCHIM'ETER.* An instrument for measuring the power of bleaching agents; appr., a chlorimeter. BLANCHING. Syn. Candica'tio, Deal- ba'tio, &c., L. ; Blanchiment, &c., Fr.; Bleichen, &c., Ger. A whitening, or making white; a growing white. In some cases it means decortication. See Almonds, Bleach- ing, Decoloeation, &c. Blanching. In cookery, an operation in- tended to impart whiteness, plumpness, and softness, to joints of meat, poultry, tongues, palates, &c. It is usually performed by put- ting the articles into cold water, which is then gradually raised to the boiling point, when they are at once taken out, plunged into cold water, and left there until quite cold. They are subsequently removed, and wiped dry, ready for being dressed. Obs. The operation of blanching meat, although it renders it more sightly according to the notions of fashionable life, at the same time lessens its nutritive qualities, by abstract- ing a portion of the soluble saline matter which it contains, especially the phosphates, and thus deprives it of one of the principal features which distinguish fresh meat from salted meat. Animal foodjbefore being dressed, may be washed or rinsed in cold water without injury, pro- j vided it be quickly done; but it cannot be soaked ; in water at any temperature much below the boiling point without the surface, and the parts near it, being rendered less nutritious. Wash- | ing meat when first received from the butcher i is, indeed, a necessary act of cleanliness; but ;