229 ARSENIOUS ACID. [ordinary skill and care, with iu,wir i»r. of arsenic—a quantity surely small enough for toxicological purposes, i The so-called ‘ normal arsenic/ or that which it was asserted by Couerbe and Orfila [exists naturally in the healthy body, has been 'already referred to, and its existence disproved. < |lt is now well-known that certain soils con- tain arsenic either as arsenite of lime or sul- phide of arsenic; and which, under favourable (circumstances, may permeate or be absorbed ;by a body, after interment. In judicial inves- jtigations following ‘ disinterment^ it is, there- fore, necessary to examine portions of the cemetery-earth taken from the grave, as well IS from parts more or less distant from it. For this purpose the earth may be boiled lin distilled water; next, in water alkalised with potassa; and lastly, with concentrated sulphuric acid. The resulting solutions, after subsidence or filtration, mixture, and ebullition for a short time, may then be tested in a Marsh’s ipparatus. The case of the ‘Styrian Arsenic-eaters’ bas been already noticed; but here follows m account of a ^village of arsenic-drinkers’ learer at home, abridged from a recent report n one of the scientific periodicals; and which, f true, shews that the whole subject requires ceinvestigation, and that it may be premature fjo hastily condemn the statements of such Inen as Wibmer, Von Tschudi, and Johnston, tuowever absurd and erroneous they may tppear on perusal. It is this—A stream, palled Whitbeck, rising in the Blackcombe iHills, West Cumberland, contains arsenic; jind this to such an extent that ducks, &c., which drink it, and fish thrown into it, soon liie. Yet the inhabitants of the village of [Whitbeck, situate on its banks, drink it with I mpunity—nay, with apparent benefit. Their children have a fair and rosy appearance, and I large proportion of the people attain a ^ood old age. The beneficial effects generally, lire stated to resemble those developed among phe arsenic-eaters of Styria. Even the coats )f the horses there are said to be similarly mproved. To this it may be added, that persons en- gaged in metallurgic operations where the ores :ontain arsenic, do not appear to suffer in lealth, provided thorough ventilation and deanliness are observed. On making careful inquiry, a few years since, at one of the largest iirsenic-works in these realms, and in its im- mediate neighbourhood, we were assured that (he people employed, as well as their families, jvere particularly healthy; and that cholera ind consumption were unknown among them ; Imd this notwithstanding that the former jiad approached very near them, and that a populous sea-side village no great distance ;>ff, had been decimated by it; and that ihthisis and breath ailments were common in he surrounding districts. The practice of employing a solution of ‘white arsenic’ as an ‘anti-smut’ steep for WHEAT, has lately arrested the attention of chemists. M. Audouard states that he has detected traces of arsenic in the crops raised from seed-wheat thus treated. But that which appears to be likely to prove much more dangerous, is the introduction of arsenic into crops by the employment of crude ‘super- phosphate of lime ’ as manure—a substance often rich in this poison. Dr. Edmund Davy ^ positively states that arsenic, as it exists in artificial manures, is taken up by plants grow- ing where those manures have been applied! He found cabbages and turnips taken from fields manured with superphosphate give unmistakeable evidence of being ‘ arseniated.’ These facts have some important bearings; for though the quantity of arsenic which occurs in such manures is not large when compared with their other constituents, and the proportion of that substance which is thus added to the soil must be necessarily small, still plants during their growth, as in the case of the alkaline and earthy salts, take up a con- siderable quantity of this substance. Further, as arsenic is well known to accumulate in soils, though not an accumulative poison in the animal system, the effects after some time, will probably be, that vegetables raised on those continuously so manured, will ultimately be found to contain such a proportion of ar- senic, as will exercise an injurious effect on the health of man and animals. The state- ment of M. Audouard has been disputed by M. Girardin, because he failed to detect arsenic in corn under the circumstances; and it is also denied by Dr. A. S. Taylor, and others; but our own experiments, very carefully per- formed, confirm the assertions of both Audouard and Davy. The ultimate consequences of pouring into the Thames such enormous quan- tities of ‘ disinfectants ’ contaminated with •arsenic, as has been done during the last 3 or 4 years, is another matter deserving considera- tion, and one which has been ably pointed out by Dr. Letheby, in his Reports, as OflScer of Health to the City of London. Dr. Lois has found arsenic, often in large quantities, in ordinary brass, and brass-utensils; and we have, ourselves, repeatedly found arsenic in the Britannia-metal, German-silver, and other cheap white alloys at present in such general use. The preceding facts are recommended to the careful attention of medical jurists. By Act of Parliament,^ it is provided—1. That every vender of arsenic shall, before the delivery of the same to the customer, enter in a book or books kept for the purpose, ‘ the date of sale,’ ‘ name,’ and ‘ residence of the pur- chaser ’ in full, his or her ‘ condition ’ or ‘ oc- cupation,’ the ‘ quantity ’ so sold, and the ‘ purpose or purposes for which it is required,* * Prof, of‘Agric. and Agric. Cliem.’ in the Royal Dublin Society. * 14 Viet., c. xiii, 1851. 1