900 MERCURY. boiled, throws down anything.’’ (Ph. L.) “ Ether agitated with it, filtered, and then evaporated to dryness, leaves no crystalline residuimi, and what may he left is not turned yellow with liquor of potassa.” (Ph. E.) Test. See MEiicrEY {above). Uses. Calomel is one of the milder mer- curials, and in this respeet takes its position immediately after blue pill, meectjey with CHALK, and the geay oxide ; hut it prohahly ranks before all the other salts of mercury. Universal experience appears to show it to he a most valuable alterative, when judiciously administered. With this intention it is given in doses of i to 1 gr., generally combined with antimonials, as in Plummee’s pill, and re- peated every night, or every other night, for some time, followed by a mild saline aperient in the morning. As a purgative, 2 to 5 gr., either combined Avith or followed by other l)urgatives, as jalap, rhubarb, senna, colocynth, Epsom salt, &c. As a vermifuge, 2 to 5 gr. over-night, followed by a sufficient dose of castor oil next morning. Combined with opium, it is frequently used in various complaints to produce salivation, or bring the system under the influence of mercury. It is also employed as a sedative and errhine, and in a vast number of other indications. It is, indeed, more fre- quently used, and in a greater variety of com- plaints, than probably any other medicine. Obs. Of the two methods of preparing calomel, that by precipitation is not only the best, bat the most economical. That by sub- limation is, however, the one generally adopted in England. Mr. Brande states that “ a small })ortion of chloride of sodium is apt to remain combined wdth it, Avhich might affect its medical uses.” Such a contamination is not found in carefully prepared ‘ precipitated calo- mel,’ although we doubt whether the quantity of it which exists in any of the samples we have met Avith (being merely a trace) would at all interfere Avith its therapeutical action; more especially Avhen it is recollected that alkaline chlorides are present in, not merely the prim® via?, but also in every part of the animal body. The late Mr. Pownes, a chemist AAdio Avas unsurpassed in the accuracy of his researches, and the caution and delicacy wdth Avhich he expressed his opinions, once assured us that calomel was more easily and cheaply prepared of the best quality by precipitation than by sublimation; and that if, from careless manipulation, it occasionally contained a minute quantity of common salt, this Avas of much less importance than the contamination of corrosive sublimate which Avas frequently present in samples of sublimed calomel. To produce a superior article of calomel in the dry way is a someAvhat difficult task, and the process frequently fails in the hands of inexperienced operators. The solution of the mercury is best made in an iron vessel, and the sublimation should be conducted (pre- ferably) in an earthenware retort with a short but very wide neck, and fitted to a spacious receiver, having a large flat bottom, also of earthenAvare, and containing a little cold Avater. < On the small scale, the heat may be applied by i means of a sand bath. The form above given J for calomel, by precipitation, produces a large product, x>erfectly [free from corrosive subli- mate and subnitrate of mercury, and is con- sequently free from the objections frequently raised against that mode of preparing it. “ The form in Avhich calomel sublimes depends much upon the dimensions and tem- perature of the subliming vessels. In small vessels it generally condenses in a crystalline cake, the interior surface of Avhich is often covered Avith beautiful quadrangular prismatic crystals, transparent, and of a texture some- what elastic or horny. In this state it ac- Cjuires, by the necessary rubbing into powder, a decidedly yelloAv or butt' colour, more or less deep, according to the degree of trituration it has undergone. If, on the contrary, the calo- mel be sublimed into a very capacious and cold receiver, it falls in an impalpable and perfectly white powder, w'hich requires only one elutriation to fit it for use; it then remains perfectly colourless.” (Brande.) The long-continued action of steam on calo- mel in a state of minute division is attended by the formation of a small quantity of corro- sive sublimate. (Righini.) Boiling Avater, hot air, and light, also produce a like effect. 2. Protochlo”ride of Mercury. Syn. Mee- CUEIC CHLOEIDE, COEEOSIVE SUBLIMATE, BiCHLOEIDE of MEECUEYf, PeECHLOEIDE OF M. t, OXYMUEIATE OF M.f J HyDEAE- ‘ GYEI BICHLOEIDUM (Ph. L.), SUBLIMATUS ( COEEOSIA'US (Ph. E.), SUBLIMATUM COEEO- ' I SIVUM (Ph. D.), Hydeaegyei chloeidum coEEOSivuM (Ph. U. S.), Hydeaegyei mueias COEEOSIA'US, L. This is the ' corrosive sub- limate ’ of the shops. Trep. 1. (Ph. L.) Mercury, 2 lb.; sul- phuric acid, 21| fl. oz.; boil to dryness, and rub the residuum of ‘ bipersulphate of mercuryj Avhen cold, wdth chloride of sodium, lb., in , an earthenware mortar; lastly, sublime by a gradually increased heat. 2. (Ph. E.) Mercury, 4 oz.; sulphuric acid, ' 2 fl. oz. 3 fl. dr.; pure nitric acid, \ A- oz.; i dissolve, add of chloride of sodium, 3 oz., and < sublime, as before. 3. (Ph. D.) ‘Persulphate o/merewry’ (sul- phate of the red oxide), 2 parts; dried chloride of sodium, 1 part; triturate, &c., as before. Obs. In preparing corrosive sublimate, as well as calomel, by the common process, the solution of the mercury is usually made in an iron pot, set in a furnace under a chimney, to carry off the fumes; and the sublimation is conducted in an earthen alembic placed in a sand bath; or in an iron pot, covered Avith a semi-spherical earthen head. Corrosive sub- limate may also be made by the direct solution of the red oxide of mercury in hydrochloric j acid, or by bringing its constituents together |