UPAS—URANIUM. 1294 combination with the silicates of soda and alu- mina; but, according to Eisner and Tirnmon, a minute quantity of sulphuret of iron is also an essential ingredient. It is by heating mix- tures of this kind that the artificial ultra- marine of commerce is prepared. The finer specimens, thus obtained, are quite equal in durability and beauty of colour to those pre- pared from lazulite, while they are very much less expensive. Prep. 1. KaoliUy 37 parts; sulphate of soda, 15; carbonate of soda, 22; sulphur, 18 ; char- coal, 8; intimately mixed and heated from 24 to 30 hours, in large crucibles; the product is then heated again in cast-iron boxes, at a moderate temperature, till the required tint is obtained ; it is, finally, pulverized, washed, and dried. 2. (Gmelin.) Sulphur, 2 parts; dry, car- bonate of soda, 1 part; mix well; gradually heat them in a covered crucible to redness, or till the mixture fuses, then sprinkle in, by degrees, another mixture of silicate of soda and ‘ aluminate of soda’ (containing 72 parts of silica and 70 parts of alumina), and continue the heat for an hour. The product contains a little free sulphur, which may be separated by water. 3. (Robiquet.) By exposing to a low red heat, in a covered crucible, as long as fumes are given off, a mixture, of pure kaolin,. 2 parts; anhydrous carbonate of soda and sulphur, of each, 3 parts. Some manufacturers who adopt this process use l-3rd less carbonate of soda. 4. (Tirnmon.) Take of crystallized car- bonate of soda, 1075 gr.; apply a gentle heat, and, when fused in its water of crystallization, shake in oi finely pulverized orpiment, 5 gr., and, when partly decomposed, add as much gelatinous hydrate of alumina as contains 7 gr. of anhydrous alumina; finely sifted clay, 100 gr., and fiowers of sulphur, 221 gr., are next to be added, and the whole placed in a covered crucible, and at first gently heated, to drive oflP the water; but as soon as this is effected, raised to redness, the heat being so regulated that, the ingredients only ‘sinter’ together, without actually fusing; the mass is then to be cooled, finely pulverized, suspended in river water, and brought upon a filter; the product has now a very beautiful delicate green or bluish colour, but on being heated in a covered dish, and stirred about from time to time, until the temperature reaches that of dull red- ness, at which it must be kept for 1 or 2 hoiirs, it changes to a rich blue. If the heat of the first calcination has been properly regulated, the whole of the mass taken from the crucible will have uniform colour; but if too little heat has been used, and the ingredients have not been properly mixed, there will be colourless parts, which should be rejected ; if too much heat has been used, or the mass allowed to fuse, brown parts will appear, especially if the crucible is of a bad kind, or easily destroyed; these must also be rejected. (‘ Compt. Rend.,’ 1842.) CobaTtic Ultramarine. Syn. Chinese blue, Cobalt b., Louisa b., Hoffner’s b.. The- naed’s b. a very rich blue pigment, with many synonymes, prepared by slowly drying and heating to dull redness a mixture of freshly precipitated alumina (freed from water as much as possible), 8 to 10 parts; arseniate or phosphate of cobalt, 1 part. By daylight it is of a pure blue, but by artificial light the colour turns on the violet. For other forraul® see Blue Pigments. U PAS. The Javan nanie of several deadly poisons. ‘Bohun upas’ is a gum-resin ob- tained from the bark of the Antiaris toxicaria. (See Antiaeine.) The ‘ upas tieute’ is ob- tained from the Strychnos Tieute, and owes its fatal power to strychnine. They are both used to poison arrows and other deadly weapons. U'RAMILE. a product of the decomposi- tion of thionuric acid, discovered by Wohler and Liebig., It is obtained by treating a hot saturated, solution of thionurate of ammonia with hydrochloric acid in excess, and boiling the mixture until a slight turbidity is ob- served, when the whole is converted into a semifluid mass; this is washed with a little cold water, and dried by a gentle heat. Mi- nute acicular crystals,.often slightly pinkish; soluble in boiling water and alkaline solutions. URAMILTC ACID, A product of the de- composition of uramile, discovered by Wohler and Liebig. A saturated solution of thionurate of ammonia in cold water is mixed with a small quantity of sulphuric acid, and the mixture evaporated over a water bath, when crystals of uramilie acid are slowly deposited. Soluble in water; with the alkalies it forms crystal- lizable salts, called uramilates, most of which are soluble. URA"NIUM. A rare metal, discovered by Klaproth, in 1789. It occurs in the pitch- blende of Saxony, and the uranite of Cornwall. Prep. Uranium may be extracted from pitchblende by heating it to redness, cooling, powdering, digesting the powder in nitric acid diluted with 3 or 4 parts of water, in quantity insufficient to dissolve the whole, passing sul- phuretted hydrogen through the solution, boiling to expel free sulphurous gas, concentrating by evaporation, and setting the remaining fluid aside to crystallize; beautiful lemon-coloured crystals of nitrate of sesquioxide of ura- nium are slowly deposited; these, by exposure to a strong heat, yield peoto-sesquioxide of URANIUM (formerly called protoxide), which, when heated in hydrogen gas, is reduced to a crystalline brown powder, which is the prot- oxide (formerly mistaken for the metal) from this last metallic uranium can only be obtained by the intervention of potassium, in the manner described under magnesium. Prop., 6fc. A white malleable metal, unaf- fected by air or water, but very combustible when heated; in a divided state it appears as a heavy black powder. Sp. gr. 11‘5. The PROTOXIDE is a brown crystalline powder.