1188 SAVONETTES—SCARLET DYE. common savine. (Ph. L.) It is a powerful stimulant, diaphoretic, emmenagogue, and an- thelmintic ; and, externally, rubefacient, es- charotic, and vesicant. In large doses it is apt to occasion abortion, and acts as a poison. Satine powdee mixed with verdigris is often applied to corns and warts. It is now chiefly used in the form of ointment. Dose. 5 to 15 gr., twice or thrice daily (with care), in amenorrhoea and worms. See Ceeate. SAVONETTES. [Fr.] Syn. Wash balls. These are made of any of the mild toilet soaps, scented at will, generally with the addi- tion of some powdered starch or farina, and sometimes sand. The spherical or spheroidal form is given to them by pressure in moulds, or by first roughly forming them with the hands, and, when quite hard, turning them in a lathe. According to Mr. Beasley, “ they are formed into spherical balls by taking a mass of the prepared soap in the left hand, and a conical drinking-glass with rather thin edges in the right. By turning the glass and ball of soap in every direction, the rounded form is soon given; when dry, the surface is scraped, to render it more smooth and even.^* Prep. 1. Take of curd soap, 3 lb.; finest yellow soap, 2 lb.; (both in shavings;) soft water, ^ pint; melt by a gentle heat, stir in of powdered starch (farina), 1^ lb.; when the mass has considerably cooled, further add of essence of lemon or bergamot, 1 oz., and make it into balls. 2. (Camphoe.) Melt spermaceti, 2 oz.; add camphor (cut small), 1 oz.; dissolve, and add the liquid mass to white curd soap, 1^ lb., previously melted by the aid of a little water and a gentle heat, and allowed to cool con- siderably, as above. These should be covered with tin-foil. 3. (Honey.) 'FtoTo.t'he finest bright-coloured yellow soap, 7 lb.; palm oil, ^ lb.; melt, and add of oil of verbena, rose-geraneum, or ginger- grass, 1 oz.; as No. 1. Sometimes ^ oz. of oil of rosemary is also added. 4. (Mottled.)—a. Red. Cut white curd or Windsor soap (not too dry) into small square pieces, and roll these in a mixture of powdered bole or rouge, either with or without the addition of some starch; then squeeze them strongly into balls, observing to mix the colour as little as possible.—b. Blue. Roll the pieces in powder blue, and proceed as be- fore.—c. Geeen. RoU the pieces in a mixture of powder blue and bright yellow ochre. By varying the colour of the powder, mottled savonettes of any colour may be produced. 5. (Sand.) From soap (at will), 2 lb.; fine siliceous sand, 1 lb.; scent, q. s.; as No. 1. For the finer qualities, finely powdered pumice- stone is substituted for sand. 6. (Violet.) From palm-oil soap, 4 lb.; farina, 2 lb. ; finely powdered orris root, 1 lb. Sometimes a little smalts, or indigo, is added. SCABIES. See Itch. SCAGLIO'LA. A species of plaster or stucco, made of pure gypsum, with variegated colot in imitation of marble. In general, the liq employed is a weak solution of Flanders gh and the colours, any which are not decompo or destroyed by admixture with sulphate ‘ lime and exposure to the light. The com sition is often applied upon hollow colun formed of wood, or even of laths nailed gether, and the surface, when hard, is tur:' smooth in a lathe, and polished. SCALD-HEAD. See Ringwoem. SCALDS. See Bijens and Scalds. SCALL. Syn. Scald. The popular na, of several skin diseases distinguished by sc or scurfiness, whether dry or humid. i Eehptions, Ringwoem, &c. SCAM'MONY. Syn. Scammonihm (Ph. E. & D.), L. The “ gum resin emitted fi, the cut root of Convolvulus Scammonia, Lin' (Ph. L.), or Aleppo scammony-plant. There are three principal varieties or qu. ties of scammony known in the market; . —VIEGIN (sp. gr. 1-21), SECONDS (sp. . 1*460 to 1*463), and thieds (sp. gr. 1* i to 1*500). The best, and that only inten I to be used in medicine, is imported fo Aleppo. Pur. Scammony is not only largely adu • rated in the country of its production, 1; again after its arrival in England. Smy: i SCAMMONY, a very inferior variety, is ) commonly dressed up, and sold as Ale) scammony. In many cases substances are i at the public sales in London, and elsewb ■, as scammony, which contain only a mere ti e of that article. This is all ground up to f i the scammony-powder of the shops. ( '’ ‘ Evid. Com. Ho. Com.,’ 1855.) Pijee sC|» MONY has a peculiar cheesy smell, and a gr ■ ish-gray colour. It is “ porous and bri and the freshly broken surface shines ,* hy - chloric acid being dropped on it, it emits o bubbles; nor does the powder digestedn water, at a heat of 170° Fahr., become 0 by the simultaneous addition of iodide potassium and dilute nitric acid. Out of 0 gr., 78 (80—Ph. E.) should be solubh n ether.” (Ph. L.) The tincture of pure s< )• mony is not turned green by nitric acid, if the powder effervesce with dilute acids, it i- tains chalk. Uses, ^c. Pure scammony is a powi il drastic purgative and anthelmintic, inad s- sible in inflammatory conditions of the i* mentary canal, but well adapted for t( id and inactive conditions of the abdonal organs. Associated with calomel, rhubar or sulphate of potassa, it is useful in all cas m which an active cathartic or vermifuge mj|)e required, especi*ally for children. Dose, or an adult) 5 to 15 gr., in powder, or made to a bolus or emulsion. SCARLATI'NA. See Scaelet Fevee. SCAR'LET DYE. Proc. (Poerner.)— 'Bouillon.’ Take of cream of tartar, \\''i water, q. s.; boil in a block-tin vessel, oo