PAPIER-MACHE—PARAFFIN. 1032 mordant formed with boiled oil thickened with vjhite lead or ochre, and then sprinkling pow- dered ivoollen flocks on it. These are pre- viously dyed, and ground to the required fine- ness in a mill. PAPIER-MACHE. Pulped paper moulded into forms. It possesses great strength and lightness. It may he rendered partially wa- terproof by the addition of sulphate of iron, quicklime, and glue or ivhite of egg, to the pulp; and incombustible, by the addition of borax and phosphate of soda. The papier- rnach^ tea-trays, waiters, snuff-boxes, &c., are prepared by pasting or gluing sheets of paper together, and then submitting them to powerful psessure, by which the composition acquires the hardness of board when dry. Such articles are afterwards and are then perfectly waterproof. The refuse of the cotton and^ao,’ mills, and numerous other substances of a like character, are now worked up as papier-mache, and the manufactured articles formed of them are indistinguishable from those prepared directly from paper. PAPY'RIN. See Papee (Parchment). PARABAN'IC ACID. An acid obtained by Wohler and Liebig by treating uric acid or alloxan, 1 part, with strong nitric acid, 8 parts, at a gentle heat, and, when the reaction has nearly ceased, evaporating the liquid to the consistence of a syrup; the crystals which form in the liquid after standing for some time, are purified by re-solution and crystal- lization. Prop., ^c. Beautiful, colourless, transparent prisms, freely soluble in water, with an acid taste and reaction. Its salts (paeabanates) give a white precipitate with nitrate of silver. PAR'ACHUTE. In aerostation, an instru- ment or apparatus having for its object to retard the descent of heavy bodies through the air. The only form of parachute which has been hitherto adopted v/ith success is that of the common umbrella when extended. The materials of which the apparatus is made are canvas and cord, both light but strong, and carefully put together. The car to contain the adventurer resembles that of the balloon, only smaller. It is estimated that a circular parachute, to descend, in safety, with an adult, weighing, w'itli the apparatus, 225 lb., must have a diameter of at least 30 feet. Its terminal velocity would then be at the rate of 12 to 13 feet per second, or about 6| miles per hour; and the shock experienced on contact with the earth would be equal to that which the aeronaut would receive if he dropped freely from a height about 2^ feet. Several descents from balloons, after they have acquired a great elevation, have been effected without accident by means of para- chutes. Unfortunately, however, any want of integrity in the machine, or any accident which may happen to it after its detachment from the balloon, is irreparable and fatal. PARACYAN'OGEN. The brown solid matter left in the retort when cyanide of mercury is decomposed by heat. It is one of the products of the distillation of peat, coal, some kinds of PETEOLETJM, and other bituminous sub- STANCES, when the distillation is performed at temperatures below a red heat. It is insoluble either in water or alcohol, and is dissipated, with decomposition, at a very high tempera- ture. Cyanogen and paeacyanogen are iso- meric compounds. PAR'AFFIN. Stjn. Tae-oil steaein. This remarkable hydrocarbon is one of the several substances discovered by Reichenbach in wood- TAE. Prep. 1. (From M"00D-TAE.) Distil beech tar to dryness, rectify the oily portion of the product which is heavier than water, until a thick matter begins to rise, then change the receiver, and moderately urge the heat as long as anything passes over; next digest the pro- duct in the second receiver, in an equal mea- sure of alcohol of -833, gradually add 6 or 7 parts more of alcohol, and expose the whole to a low temperature; crystals of paraffin will gradually fall down, which, after being washed in cold alcohol, must be dissolved in boiling alcohol, when crystals of puee paea.eein will be deposited as the solution cools. 2. (From coal — James Young, Patent 1850.) The details of this process for obtain- ing paraffin and its congeners by the slow dis- tillation of coal (preferably ‘Boghead’) are given in our article on paeaepin oil {page 966). The solid parafiin is separated from the last products, or ‘ heavy oils,’ by artificial cold; it is then melted and run into moulds. 3. (From Rangoon peteoleum—Patent.) In this process, which is worked by Price’s Candle Company, superheated steam is em- ployed as the heating agent. The paraffin, or ‘ BELMONTINE,’ as it is Called, is the last pro- duct which distils over. 4. (From peat.) The various pi’ocesses which have been suggested for obtaining pa- rafiin from peat, turf, &c., are similar in prin- ciple to Young’s. The great point is to con- duct the distillation at as low a temperature as possible. Prop. A white, hard, translucent body, melting at 110° Fahr. and upwmrds, according to its source, and burning with a bright white flame. It has great stability—sulphuric acid, chlorine, and nitric acid below 212° exerting no action upon it. Dr. Anderson states that its composition and properties vary with the source from which it is derived. With respect to the melting-point, this variation is very remarkable. Thus, Young’s paraffin, from Bog- head coal, melts, according to the observations of Dr. Anderson, at 114°, w^hile that from Ran- goon petroleum (‘ belmontine’), melts at 140°, and that from turf at 116°. Uses. Paraffin is now largely used for making