i OILS (VOLATILE). 983 j Oil of Pennyroy'al. Syn. Oleum pulegii ' (Ph. L.), O. MENTHA p. (Ph. E. & D.), O. P. ES- 1 SENTIALE, L. From the flowering herb of Men- \ tha Pulegium, or the common pennyroyal of i our gardens. Pale yellow, growing reddish- yellow by age and exposure; antispasmodic, I carminative, and emmenagogue. Boils at i 395° Fahr. Sp. gr. *925 to ’931. Prod. | to I Ig. (See below.) \ Oil of Pennyroyal (American). Syn. Oleum i HEDEOMiE (Ph. U. S.), L. From Hedeoma pule- I gioides, as the last. Light yellow; closely I resembles oil op pennypotal, for which it i passes in the U. S. Sp. gr. ’945 to '94S. ! Oil of Pepper. Syn. Oil op black ?.; Oleum pipekis, O. p. nigei, L. From bruised I black pepper {Piper nigrum). Colourless, i turning yellow; odorous ; pungent; not so I hot as the spice. Sp. gr. *9932. Prod. l’25g to l’5g. White pepper (of commerce), I 1^ (barely). I Oil of Pep'permint. Syn. Oleum menth^ I PIPEEIT.E (Ph. L. E. & D.), O. ESSENTIALE M. PIPERITIDIS, L. From the fresh flowering j herb of Mentha piperita, or garden peppermint. I Nearly colourless, or at most a very pale green- ish-yellow ; powerfully odorous; tastes pun- I gent, at the same time imparting a sensation i of coldness to the tongue and palate. Boils I at 365° Fahr. Sp. gr. ’902 to ’905. Prod. I Fresh flowering herb, ’252 to ’4g; dried do., I Ig to 1*252 (fully). In a warm dry season, i 5 lb. of the fresh flowering herb yield 1 oz. of oil; in a wet and unfavourable one, 11 lb. yield i barely the same quantity, j Pur. The oil of commerce usually contains [ fully a third part of rectified spirit, and is also I frequently adulterated with the oils of rose- ! mary, spearmint, and turpentine. When pure j —1. It is soluble in its own weight of rectified I spirit.—2. Mixed with l-4th its volume of I nitric acid, a rich purple^red colour is deve- i loped.—3. Chromate of potash, in solution, I turns it of a deep reddish-brown colour, and I converts it into a soft coagulum, which assumes i a flaky form when divided with a glass rod, I whilst the solution of the salt loses its yellow ' colour or becomes greenish-yellow.—4. With j iodine it forms a homogeneous mass, without I fulmination. If it explodes with iodine, it i contains turpentine. The yellowish, resinous oil, sold under the name of ‘American’ or I ‘ CRUDE OIL OP peppermint,’ consists chiefly I of oil of turpentine, and on evaporation leaves i a residuum of pine resin. 1 Obs. English oil of peppermint is the best, a I fact clearly shown hy its price in the market I being so greatly above that of the imported j oil. The oil distilled at Mitcham, in Surrey I (Mitcham oil of peppermint), is the most ' esteemed. It has usually a very pale greenish colour, which is often imitated by steeping a leaf or two of green mint or parsley in the oil. Old dark-coloured oils are commonly bleached i by exposure to the light, to the destruction of a portion of their other properties. Oil of peppermint is stimulant, antispas- modic, and carminative, and has always been a favourite remedy in flatulence, nausea, vomit- ing, loss of appetite, cramp of the stomach, colic, griping pains, diarrhoea, the early stage of cholera, &c. Dose. 1 to 3 drops, on sugar. Oil of Petroleum. See Naphtha, Oils (Mineral), Petroleum, &c. Oil of Pim'ento. Syn. Oil op allspice; Oleum pimento (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. From the bruised fruit of Eugenia pimenta, allspice, or Jamaica pepper. Pale yellow, growing red- dish-brown by age; odour, a combination of cloves and cassia; taste, pungent. Sp. gr. 1-021. Prod. 5g to Sg. Obs. Oil of pimento contains two oils simi- lar to those found in clove oil. When pure, nitric acid turns it red, with active effer- vescence and the assumption of a rusty brown colour. It combines with the salifiable bases in a nearly similar manner to oil of cloves. It is much used in perfumery, especially in hair cosmetics. Oil of Pim'pernel. Syn. Oleum pi mpinell.®:, L. From the root of Sanguisorba officinalis, or pimpernel. Blue; carminative. Pine-ap'ple Oil. This artifleial essential oil dates its commercial importance from the Great Exhibition of 1851. It is essentially BUTYRIC ETHER, and may be regarded as sim- ply the crude form of that substance. On the large scale, it is prepared by saponifying butter or crude butyric acid with a strong lye of caustic potassa, and dissolving the resulting soap in the smallest possible quantity of hot alcohol; to the solution is added a mixture of alcohol and oil of vitriol in excess, and the whole is then submitted to distillation as long as the product has an aromatic fruity odour; the product is rectified from dried chloride of calcium and a little litharge. Dissolved in rec- tified spirit, it is much used as a flavouring substance by confectioners and liquoristes. See Ether (Butyric) and Essence op Pine- apple, &c. Oil of Pota'to Spirit. See Amyle (Hydrate of) and Fusel Oil. Oil of Ravensa'ra. Syn. Oleum raven- SAR.®, L. From the roots of Ravensara aro- metica. Chiefly used to adulterate oil of cloves, which it somewhat resembles. Oil of Rho'dium. Syn. Oleum rhodii, L. Said to be derived from the wood of species of Rhodoriza. Very fluid and limpid; pale yel- low ; soon darkens by age and exposure; tastes bitter and aromatic; has a modified odour of roses. Chiefly used as a substitute for otto of roses in cheap perfumery, and to adulterate it. Oil of sandal-wood is frequently sold for it. Prod. *lg to ’16g. See Oil of Roses {below). Oil of Ro"ses. Syn. Oleum ros.r, L. Prep.l. From the petals of Rosa sempervirens (Linn.), or the musk rose, as oil op cloves, observing to keep the water in the worm-tub at 85° Fahr., and afterwards subjecting the w’ater in the receiver to refrigeration. Resembles otto