492 CRUMPET—CEYSTAL. lurgists, being well moulded and very refrac- tory. They have a smooth surface, and with- stand the action of fluxes satisfactorily. 4. (Stourbridge-clay Crucibles.)—a. From Stourbridge clay, 4 parts; burnt clay (obtained by pounding and grinding old glass pots), 2 parts; pipeclay and coke-powder, of each, 1 part. b. (Anstey’s Patent.) From Stourbridge clay, 2 parts ; hard gas-coke (previously ground and sifted through a sieve of |th-iuch mesh), 1 part. Obs. These crucibles of Stourbridge clay are made large enough to hold forty pounds or more of melted brass. They are only dried, and not baked. For use, they are warmed, placed on the furnace, bottom upwards, the burning coke gradually heaped round them, and the flring continued until they acquire a full red heat. They are then quickly taken out of the furnace, and put in again with the mouth upwards. If placed in the furnace with the mouth upwards at first, they are sure to crack. After they have been once used, and allowed to become cold, they are worthless. Platinum Crucibles. These are indispensable instruments in the laboratory of the analytical chemist. They are chiefly employed in the ignition of precipitates, and in the fusion of silicates with carbonated alkalies to render them soluble, a preliminary step to their ana- lysis. *"The most ordinary form of the platinum crucible is that of a cup with a flat bottom. They are always provided with lids, which are sometimes so constructed that they may be used, when separated from the crucibles, as capsules for ignitions and evaporations. Platinum crucibles are not acted on by carbonated alkalies at a high temperature, but they are liable to be seriously damaged by the caustic alkalies. Precipitates of the more reducible metals must never be ignited in these cruci- bles, as the reduction of the metals would infallibly destroy the vessels. See Porcelain Crucibles. Plumba'go Crucibles. Syn. Graphite c., Blacklead c.. Blue pots. From graphite, ground and sifted, mixed with sufficient re- fractory clay to render it plastic. They are shaped by band on an ordinary potter’s wheel, or by moulds of metal like that figured above under the head of Earthen Crucibles. Prop., 4'c. Good black-lead crucibles, even when of the largest size, support the greatest and most sudden alternations of temperature without cracking, and may be used after repeated heating and cooling. Their surface, within as well as without, may be made very smooth, so that particles of melted meial will not hang about the sides. They are now almost universally used for melting the pre- cious metals. Por'celain Crucibles. These beautiful vessels are now made in Germany and France of all shapes and sizes. They are formed of the most exquisitely white, thin, and hard por- ( celain, which does not crack when heated, and ’ which is but little acted on by the most ( energetic chemical reagents. For some opera- - tions they supersede platinum crucibles, par- ticularly in the ignition of the precipitates :! of the more reducible metals. They do not i retain colouring matter, and are not porous, a Their covers are excellently adapted for I delicate cases of testing, the whiteness of the •I porcelain showing the changes of colour in a a single drop of liquid most distinctly. j CRUMP'ET. A sort of muffin or tea-cake, : very light and spongy. Prep. From flour, 2 lb., made into a dough with warm milk-and- water, adding a little salt, 3 eggs (well beaten), and 3 teaspoonfuls of yeast, mixed to the consistence of thick batter; after standing before tbe fire for a short time, to rise, it is poured into buttered tins, and baked slowly to a fine yellow. For the table, crumpets are toasted lightly on both sides, buttered, piled on a hot dish, and cut into halves. CRUST. The paste with which pies, tarts, &c., are made, or covered. 1. (Fine.) From flour, 1 lb.; sugar, ^ lb.; melted butter, ^ lb.; 3 eggs; milk, q. s. Requires little baking. 2. (Raised crust, for meat pies, &c.) As the last, but using 6 oz. of lard for the butter, and only 2 instead of 3 eggs. 3. (Short.) From flour, 1 lb.; butter and sugar, of each, 2 oz.; eggs, 2 in no.; made into a stiff paste. Obs. The quality is improved if the whole or a portion of the butter is employed in the way directed under ‘puff paste.’ For further information hereon, consult the cookery books of Acton, Beeton, Rundell, and Soyer. CRYOPH'ORUS. See Refrigeration. CRYS'TAL. A solid body, having a regular \ geometrical form. The plane surfaces by1 which a crystal is bounded are termed faces; these intersect in straight lines or edges; and these again meet in points, and form angles. The axis of a crystal is an imaginary line passing through its centre, and terminating either in the middle of two faces or of two edges, or in two angles; and axes terminating in similar parts of a crystal are named similar axes. When the axes of a crystal are pro- perly chosen, and placed in a right position, the various faces are observed to group them- selves in a regular and beautiful manner around these axes, and to be all so related to them as to compose a connected series, pro- duced according to definite laws. The multi- tudinous forms of crystals have been distri- buted by mineralogists and chemists into six primary classes or systems, distinguishable from one another by the relative positions and lengths of the three axes about which the planes or faces are arranged; while the different figures of any particular system are distinguishable by the arrangement of the planes in respect to the axes. Thus, the cube I or hexahedron, the rhombic dodecahedron, and i