SABLE—SACHET. 1178 caused death. It is now used chiefly as a source of vebateine. SA'BLE. The Mustella Zibellina (Linn.), a small quadruped of the martin-cat family, found in Northern Asia. Its fur is remarkable for its fine quality and rich colour, and for the hairs turning with equal ease in every di- rection. The skins of the rabbit, cat, &c., dressed, painted, and lustred, are sold under the name of common or mock sable. SABOTIEEE. [Fr.] An apparatus of pe- culiar construction, employed by the French confectioners for making ices. It consists of a pail to contain a freezing mixture, and an inner vessel for the creams to be iced. It may be used with a mixture of pounded ice and sail, or any other freezing mixture. The pail and cream vessel being loaded, and closely covered, an alternate rotatory motion is given to the apparatus by means of the handle, for 10 or 15 minutes, care being taken to occa- sionally scrape down the frozen portion of the cream from the sides, by means of a wooden spoon. See Ices and REFEiaEEATiON. SACCHARIC ACID. Spn. Oxalhydeic ACiDf. A compound, formerly supposed to be identical with malic acid, resulting from the action of dilute nitric acid on sugar. It is frequently found in the mother-liquor of oxalic acid. Prep. Take of sugar or gum, 1 part; nitric acid, 2 parts; (diluted with) water, 10 parts; dissolve by the aid of heat, and continue the heat as long as reaction takes place; then neutralize the liquid with carbonate of lime, precipitate by acetate of lead, and decompose the precipitate, suspended in water, by sul- phuretted hydrogen; neutralize the filtered liquid withpotassa, concentrate, and crystallize; redissolve the resulting sacchaeate of po- tassa, decolour it with a little animal charcoal, reprecipitate by acetate of lead, and decom- pose the precipitated sacchaeate of lead by sulphuretted hydrogen, as before. Prop., Sfc. Long colourless needles; mixed with nitrate of silver, ammonia being subse- quently added, a white precipitate falls, which is reduced, on gently warming the whole, to pure metallic silver, the vessel being coated with a smooth and brilliant layer of that metal. It forms salts with the bases called SACCHAEATES, of which those of the alkalies, lime, and baryta, are soluble. Nitric acid converts it into oxalic acid. SAC'CHARIKE. The technical name of the uncrystallizable sugar found in malt-wort. SACCHARINE FERMENTA'TION. This occurs during the germination and kiln-drying of grain in the operations of malting, and in the mashing of malt in brewing. The sweet- ening of bread during its exposure to heat in the oven is also included under this head by many writers. The substance which most powerfully excites the sugar fermentation was first shown by Payen and Persoz to be a peculiar principle, to which they have given the name of ‘ dia TASE.* This is always present in good mal and possesses the singular property of co; verting staech successively into gum (del; teine) and sugae, at a temperature rangir between 149° and 168° Fahr. During tl action of this substance on starch, it itself decomposed; and when the sugar fe mentation ceases, it is found to have entire! disappeared. It is the presence of diastase i, malt which alone converts the starch of tl grain into sugar during the operation (| mashing with hot water; and hence the a1| solute necessity of employing water at tl proper temperature, as on this depends tl strength and sweetness of the wort, and coi< sequently its fitness for undergoing the vinoi fermentation, and for making beer. Vegetah albumen and gluten also possess the properl of exciting the saccharine fermentation, hi in a considerably inferior degree to diastase. The sugar formed during the germinatic of seeds containing starch results from tl action of diastase, and disappears as soon ; the woody fibre (lignin), which has a siinili constitution, is developed, forming the skeletc of the young plant. (Liebig.) See Beewin' Diastase, Dexteine, &c. SACCHAROM'ETER. An instrument, sin: lar in principle to the common spirit hydr meter, but so weighted and graduated as adapt it for the indication of the richness malt-worts in sugar, or saccharine, express! in pounds per barrel, or the excess of gravi over that of water, the last being taken 1000. See Bee wing, Syeup, Woet, &c. SACCHUL'MIC ACID. A light brown po^ der, obtained by Boullay and Malaguti, 1 boiling sugar along with dilute sulphuric aei It is soluble in ammonia and the fixed alk lies, forming salts (sacchulmates). It is t!i ULMic ACID of Boullay and Malaguti. SACCHUL'MIN. An insoluble substanc obtained, like the last, by boiling 10 parts sugar, 30 of water, and 1 of sulphuric acid, f a very long time. It is deposited in brillia brown scales, along with some sacchulm ACID. The latter is removed by the action ammonia water. Prop., 8fc. Sacchulmine is insoluble in ar monia and the alkalies. It is the ULMIN Boullay and Malaguti. SACH'ET. Syn. Sacculus, L. Sache (SACCULi) are little bags, containing dry su stances, used for the external medication parts, or for communicating agreeable pe fumes to wearing apparel, drawers, furnitui &c. Those belonging to perfumery are coi monly filled with mixtures of fragrant vegei ble substances, reduced to coarse powder, ar differ from those employed for pot poui chiefly in being used in the dry state. Sa culi are now seldom employed in this coU| try in legitimate medicine. See Powde:| (Scented), &c. || Anti-phthis'ic Sachet. Syn, Sacculits an'