576 ERYTHOEETINE—ESPEIT. progress of the symptoms are variable. From the eighth to the twelfth day the eruption usually scabs or scales off. Sometimes suppu- ration occurs, especially of the eyelids and scalp, and during the latter stages of the disease there is, in general, a tendency to de- bility. In many cases erysipelas is attended by typhoid symptoms, and is then a dangerous and often fatal disease. Treat. Aperients and diaphoretics, assisted by a cooling diet. When the inflammatory syinptoms run high, blistering and cupping are frequently had recourse to. Local irritation may he subdued by milk-and-water, or cooling or evaporating lotions, or by sprinkling starch, hair-powder, or arrow-root, on the part. The tendency to debility in the latter stages should be combated with bark, quinine, or other like tonics. When shiverings, sickness, and delirium, attend the height of the dis- order, wine, bark, ammonia, and other stimu- lants, are usually prescribed, and depletion must be avoided. The same treatment is also adopted in the gangrenous forms of the dis- ease, to which doses of ojnum and calomel are also commonly added. When suppuration and sloughing of the cellular membrane have taken place, it is usual to inake incisions to give exit to the discharge, and relieve the tension of the limb. These may be about inch in length, and from 2 to 4 inches apart, and should be made in the direction of the long dimensions of the limb. Mr. Higgin- bottom, of Nottingham, applies (freely) lunar caustic to the inflamed skin, and also to the healthy skin, to the extent of an inch or more beyond it. The result, in many cases, is a complete change of action in the part, and a resolution of the disease. Iodine paint is often successfully used in the same way. Erysipelas is generally symptomatic of a debilitated or bad constitution. It is also a common sequel of surgical operations in crowded and ill-ventilated hospitals, where it often appears to be contagious. In tliese cases cleanliness, ventilation, and change of air, are the only remedies. AV''e need scarcely add, that this disease should never be tam- pered with, but the best medical advice sought, whenever it can be procured. ERYTHOPvE'TnfE. Sgn. Hed resin of Rhubarb. A yellow or reddish-yellow sub- stance forming one of the three resins found by Schlosberger and Doepping in rhubarb. It is very soluble in alcohol; less so in ether; with ammonia and potassa it forms soluble compounds of a rich purple colour. See Rhu- barb. ERYTH'RIC ACID. Prep. The lichen lloccella tincloria (Canary or herb-archil) is boiled with milk of lime, and the filtered solution precipitated v/ith hydrochloric acid; the dried precipitate is dissolved in warm alcohol, and filtered; as the solution cools, crystals of crythric acid are deposited. Prep., 8fc. Feebly acid; colourless; in- odorous; scarcely soluble in water; soluble in , alcohol and ether; chloride of lime turns its j solutions of a blood-red colour. j ERYTH'RIIIE, Amartthrine, Erythri- ’ LINE, Pseudo-erythrine, and Telerytii- rine. Substances obtained by Kane and Heeren from Roccella tinctoria, Parmelia roc- ' cella, Leconara Tartarea, &c. They are of - little practical importance. ERYTH'ROLEINE, Azolitmine, Azoery- thrine, Erythroleic Acid, Erythrolit- MiNE, and Spaniolitmine. Substances ob- tained from litmus and archil by Kane. They are little known, and have not been applied in the arts. ERYTHROPRO'TIDE. A soluble, brown, extract-like substance, formed along with PROTIDE and leucine, when albumen, fibrine, or caseine, is boiled in a solution of caustic po- tassa as long as ammoniacal vapours are evolved. The liquid, neutralized with dilute sidphuric acid, and evaporated to dryness, gives up these substances to boiling alcohol. ERYTRAE-'SINE. A red amorphous pow- der, frequently produced in the preparation of chloride of kakodyle. It is insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, or caustic potassa; and i by exposure to the air is converted, chiefly, into arsenious acid. ESCHAROT'ICS. Syn. Escharotica, L. : Substances that destroy the texture of living organic bodies, with the production of an i ‘ eschar ’ or ‘ scab.’ Escharotics have been ] divided into two classes—mechanical and che- i mical. Among the former are actual cauteries, • as a heated iron, moxas, &c.; among the latter, are all those substances commonly known as caustics. Some writers have subdivided che- mical escharotics into eroding escharotics, as blue vitriol, red precipitate, burnt alum, &c.; and into caustic escharotics, as lunar caustic, pure potassa, strong sulphuric acid, % nitric acid, Ac.; but these distinctions possess little practical value. “ In cauterizing with a heated iron, this should be at a white heat, as, at this temperature, it occasions less pain to the patient, from its causing an immediate death of the part to which it is applied.” “ The surrounding surface should be protected by some non-conductor of heat, but not by wet paper or cloth, as the sudden extrication i of steam will produce a blistered surface around the burn, and will much increase the pain.” (Dr. R. E. Griffith.) See Caustic, Solution, Ac. ES'CULENTS. Substances used for food. The more important esculents are noticed under their respective heads. ESCU'LIC ACID. A peculiar acid found by M. Bussy in the bark of the horse-chestnut. i It is but little known, and has not been applied to any use. ESPRIT. [Fr.] Spirit. This term is com- monly applied to alcoholic solutions of the J essential oils, and to various odorous and aro- | matic essences sold by the perfumers and j