1147 PUMICE STONE—PUNCH. Iverizing civets musk, nutmeg, and vanilla. hen camphor is to be pulverized, the addition j a very small quantity of alcohol renders the eration easy. In other cases, the interme- \tm is of so hard a nature as to assist in leaking down the substance to be powdered; |us, gold-leaf is reduced to powder by rubbing ; with sulphate of potassa, and afterwards noving this last by means of water. Fusible \dals, as zinc and tin, are powdered by pour- ■y them into a mortar, and stirring them ipidly whilst cooling; or, by briskly agi- ting them, in the melted state, in a wooden IX covered with chalk or whiting. Phos- ^orus is powdered by melting it in urine or Qe water, and then shaking the bottle until I contents have become quite cold. Glass, \artz, and silicated stones, require to be iated red hot, and in this state to be thrown !to cold water, by which they become suflB- mtly friable to admit of pulverization, any salts which are reduced to fine powder th very great difficulty, and do not dissolve ‘ spirit of wine, are easily obtained in a pul- irulent form, by agitating their concentrated ueous solution with a considerable quantity rectified spirit; the disengaged fine crystal- led powder may then be dried, and further ivided by trituration. Potassio-tartrate of \ timong may be advantageously thus treated, j large number of salts, including nitre, sal hmoniac, and carbonate of potash, may also be iduced to powder by keeping their solutions a state of constant and violent agitation iiring their rapid evaporation, j The following rules should be observed in 1 e preparation of powders:— 11. If possible, perfectly dry articles should pne be operated on, and only in dry wea~ er. 12. The nature of the mortar, and the mode \ operating, should be adapted to the nature i the substance. Thus, woods and barks lOuld be pulverized in an iron mortar; sugar, Hm, and nitre, in one of marble or wedg- i)od-ware; and corrosive sublimate, only in t e of glass. 13. The mortar should be provided with a Iver, to prevent loss and annoyance to the ope- jtor. If much powder escapes, or if it is dan- Irows or disagreeable when breathed, or if the \bstance is rare or costly, the mortar should covered with a skin of leather, to which the stle is attached, so that the latter may be 2ely moved without causing the slightest •ening for the escape of the dust occasioned !' the process. When aloes or gamboge is •wdered, a few drops of olive oil are commonly ded, with the same intention. 4. The pulverized portions should be sepa- ted from time to time, by aid of a sieve, the |arser particles being returned to the mortar be again beaten and triturated; and this ternate pulverization and sifting is to be re- lated until the process is complete. PUMICE STONE. Syn. Pumex, Lapis prMiCETTS, L. PTJMicis, L. Found in the neighbourhood of volcanoes. Used, in the solid form, to polish wood, paint, &c.; also, when pulverized, as a polishing powder for glass, bone, ivory, marble, metals, &c. PUNCH. An acidulous, intoxicating beve- rage, composed of water sweetened with sugar, with a mixture of lemon juice and spirit, to which some aromatic, as nutmeg, mace, or cin- namon, is occasionally added. Wine is some- times substituted for spirit. It is much less drunk than formerly. Rum punch is the most popular amongst sailors, who are now the prin- cipal consumers of this beverage. Prep. 1. Juice o/* 3 or 4 lemons; yellow peel of 1 lemon; lump sugar, f lb.; boiling water, 3^ pints; infuse ^ an hour, strain, and add, of bitter ale, ^ pint; rum and brandy, of each, f to 1 pint (or rum alone, to 2 pints). More hot water and sugar may be added if the punch is desired either weaker or sweeter. 2. (Cold punch.) From arrack, port wine, and water, of each, 1 pint; juice of 4 lemons ; white sugar, 1 lb. 3. (Gin punch.) From the yellow peel of ^ a lemon; juice of 1 lemon; strongest gin, I pint; water. If pint; sherry, 1 glassful. 4. (Iced punch.) From champagne or Rhenish wine, 1 quart; arrack, 1 pint; juice of 6 lemons ; yellow peel of 3 lemons ; white sugar, 1 lb.; soda water, 1 or 2 bottles; to be iced as cream. 5. (Milk punch; Veeder.) Steep the yellow rinds of 18 lemons and 6 oranges, for 2 days, in rum or brandy, 2 quarts; then add, 3 quarts more of either spirit; hot water, 3 quarts ; lemon juice, 1 quart; loaf sugar, 4 lb.; 2 nutmegs, grated; and boiling milk, 2 quarts; mix well, and in 2 hours strain the liquor through a jelly-bag. 6. (Norfolk punch.) Take of French brandy, 20 quarts; yellow peels of 18 oranges and 30 lemons; infuse for 12 hours; add, of cold water, 30 quarts; lump sugar, 20 lb.; and the juice of the oranges and lemons ; mix well, strain through a hair sieve, add of new milk, 2 quarts, and in 6 weeks bottle it. Keeps well. 7. (Orange punch.) As No. 1, using oranges, and adding some orange wine, if at hand. A little curaqoa, noyau, or mareschino, improves it. 8. (Raspberry punch.) As the last, but using raspberry juice, or raspberry vinegar, iov the oranges or lemons. 9. (Regent^s punch.) From strong hot green tea, lemon juice, and capillaire, of each, 1^ pint; rum, brandy, arrack, and curagoa, of each, 1 pint; champagne, 1 bottle; mix, and slice a pineapple into it. 10. (Tea punch.) From strong hot tea, 1 quart; arrack, ^ bottle; white sugar, 6 oz. ; juice of 8 lemons; and the yellow rinds of 4 lemons ; mixed together. 11. (Wine punch.) From white sugar, lib.;