IRON. 790 colour.—i. Phosphate of soda gives a white precipitate, which becomes brown and finally dissolves on the addition of ammonia. Estim. 1. The iron may be thrown down in the state of peroxide or sesquioxide, washed, dried, ignited, and weighed. The weight, in grains, multiplied by -7, indicates the weight of metallic iron. 2. (Liebig.) The ore is reduced to fine powder, mixed with a mixed flux of cyanide of potassium and carbonate of potassa, and ex- posed to a very strong heat in a porcelain crucible. The alumina and silica remain in the scoria; the reduced iron is separated by washing the mass with cold water, and is then dried and weighed. 3. 50 gr. of the ore are reduced to powder, dissolved in aqua regia, with the aid of heat, and the solution filtered in order to separate the silica and a little alumina which sometimes is left in an insoluble state; an excess of am- monia is then added to the filtered liquor, which produces a reddish-brown precipitate of peroxide of iron mixed with alumina, which is collected on a filter, washed, and boiled with a solution of caustic potassa, in order to dissolve the alumina; the whole is next thrown upon a filter, on which the peroxide of iron is washed, dried, carefully ignited, and weighed. The above (No. 2 & 3) are well adapted to determine the quantity of iron in clay iron- stone, the most common ferrxiginous ore in England. 4. Various volumetric processes are adopted for estimating iron in ores. That of Mar- guerite is perhaps the best. It is based on the reciprocal action of the salts of protoxide of iron and permanganate of potassa, whereby a quantity of the latter is decomposed exactly proportionate to the quantity of oxide of iron. The preparations of iron used in medi- cine and the arts are very numerous. The greater number of them are, however, very easily made, either by direct solution of the metal or its hydrated oxide in the acids, or (as in the case of the insoluble compounds especially) by double decomposition. The following list contains the principal substances of this class:— Ac'etates of Iron. There are two acetates of iron, the ‘ ferrous ’ and the ‘ferric acetates,’ as they are respectively termed by the modern school of chemists, or the ‘ protacetate ’ and ‘ sesquiacetate ’ of most of our standard works on chemistry. A crude mixture of the two salts (lEON liqtjoe) is largely employed by dyers. The sesquisalt is used to a limited extent in medicine. 1. Protae'etate of Iron. Syn. Feeeotjs ACETATE; Feeei acetas, L. Prep. 1. By dissolving metallic iron (or the protosulphuret of iron) in strong acetic acid, concentrating the solution, and placing it aside to crystallize. 2. From freshly precipitated protoxide or carbonate cf iron dissolved in dilute acetic acid. 3. By adding a solution of acetate of lime to another of protosulphate of iron, and evapo- rating the filtered liquid, out of contact with the air. Small, colourless, or pale-greenish needles or prisms, very soluble and prone to oxidation. 2. Sesquiae'etate of Iron. Syn. Feeeic ACETATE, PeEACETATE OE IEON ; FeEEI SES- QEIACETAS, L. Prep. 1. From hydrated ses- quioxide of iron dissolved in acetic acid. 2. By adding a solution of acetate of lime or acetate of baryta to another of persulphate of iron. 3. (Feeei acetas—Ph. D. 1826.) Car- bonate of iron, 1 part; acetic acid (Ph. D.), 6 parts; digest 3 days and filter. A dark brownish-red, uncrystallizable liquid, very soluble, and powerfully astringent. The cal- cined sesquioxide of iron of the shops, com- monly sold as ‘ carbonate of iron,’ does not answer well for this or any of the sesqui- compounds, owing to its being with difiiculty dissolved by acids, especially by the weaker ones. Dose. (Of the last) 10 to 25 drops, in water or wine. See Ieon Liqeoe, Tinctuee OE Acetate oe Ieon, &c. Ac'id of Iron. See Feeeic Acid. Albu'minate of Iron. Syn. Feeei albii- MiNAS, L. Prep. 1. Dissolve well-washed hydrated protoxide or peroxide of iron in white of egg, previously diluted with twice its weight of water, and filtered. 2. (Lassaigne.) Precipitate a filtered so- lution of white of egg with another of persul- phate of iron, wash the deposit in water, and dissolve it in alcohol holding caustic potassa in solution. Obs. This preparation is highly spoken of by M. Lassaigne, as especially adapted by its nature, on theoretical grounds, for combining with the tissues of the body. Ammo"nio-chlo"ride of Iron. Syn. Ammo- NIATED lEON, FeEEO-CHLOEIDE OE AMMONIA ; Feeei ammonio-chloeidum (Ph.L.),FEEEUM AMMONIATTTM (Ph. U. S.), FlOEES MAETIALES, L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Sesquioxide of iron, 3 oz.; hydrochloric acid, ^ pint; digest in a sand bath, until dissolved, then add of sal ammoniac, 2^ lb., dissolved in water, 3 pints; filter the liquid, evaporate to dryness, and reduce the mass to coarse powder. Orange- coloured crystalline grains. 2. (Ph. U. S.) As above, but substituting the sesquicarbonate for the sesquioxide of iron. 3. Rub sal ammoniac with twice its weight of colcothar or rust of iron, sublime with a quick sudden heat, and repeat the sublimation •with fresh sal ammoniac as long as the ‘flowers ’ are well coloured. Difiicult to manage. Prop., 8fc. Ammonio-chloride of iron “is totally soluble in proof spirit and in water. Potassa added to the solution throws down sesquioxide of iron, and when added in excess it evolves ammonia.” (Ph. L. 1836.) Am- monia “throws down from 100 gr. of this salt