1237 STAECHING (CLEAR)—STEAM. mixture of the cheaper kinds of starch, jiefly potato farina, with arrow-root, and nding manufactured iov genuine tapioca, sago, ;d other articles of diet, used for invalids d children. These sophistications are most sily detected with a good microscope.^ iTodide of Starch. Syn. Amtli lODiDrM, IviTLi lODATUM, L. Prep. (Ph. Castr. Ru- lena.) Iodine, 24 gr.; rectified sjoinV, a few iops; rub them to a powder; then add of Itch, 1 oz., and again triturate, until the |a,ss assumes a uniform colour. Recommended j' Dr. A. Buchanan, of Glasgow, as producing '■e alterative effects of iodine, without the ual irritant action of that medicine. Bose. teaspoonful, or more, in water-gruel, or any ind liquid, twice or thrice a day. |STARCHIR6 (Clear). Muslins, &c., are lear-starched' or ‘ got-up^ by laundresses in 'e following manner:—Rinse the articles in \ree waters, dry them, and dip them into ick made-starch, which has been previously rained through a piece of muslin; squeeze em, shake them gently, and again hang em up to dry; when they are dry, dip them dee or thrice into clear water, squeeze them, read them on a linen cloth, roll them up in and let them lie an hour before ironing era. Some persons put a morsel of sugar to the starch, to prevent it sticking whilst Dning, and others stir the starch with a ndle to effect the same end; both these prac- l3es are as injurious as unnecessary. The best an to prevent sticking is simply to use the s/ starch, and to make it well, and to have le irons quite clean and highly polished. Mr. Z”. B. Tegetmeier recommends the addition of small piece of paraffin (a piece of paraffin l.ndle-end) to the starch, to increase the glos- iness of the ironed fabric. ' STAVES'ACRE. Syn. Stavesacee seeds ; IrAPHISAGEI.® SEMINA, StAPHISAGEIA (Ph. j. & D.), L. ‘^The seed of Delphinium Sta- hisagria, Linn.” (Ph. L.) This article is pwerfully emetic and cathartic, but is now !:arcely ever used internally. Mixed with air powder, it is used to kill lice. An in- ision, or ointment, made with it is said to be ifallible in itch, but its use requires some iiution. ' STARS, (fxipyrotechny^ Prep. 1. (Beil- [ANT—Marsh.) Nitre, 52^ parts; sulphur jnd black antimony, of each, 13 parts; reduce lem to powder, make them into a stiff paste ! ith isinglass, part, dissolved in a mixture f vinegar, 6^ parts, and spirits of wine, 13 arts; lastly, form this into small pieces, nd, whilst moist, roll them in meal gun- \owder. 2. (White—Ruggieri.) Nitre, 16 parts; ■fiphur, 7 parts; gunpowder, 4 parts ; as the list. 3. (Golden eain.)—a. (Ruggieri.) Nitre ' ^ The measurements and microscopical appearances of all he commercial starches will be found accurately described (nd figured in Royle’s ''Manual of Materia Medica.” and gunpowder, of each, 16 parts; sulphur, 10 parts; charcoal, 4 parts; lampblack, 2 parts; mix, and pack it into small paper tubes. b. (Ruggieri.) Nitre, 16 parts; sulphur and gunpowder, of each, 8 parts; charcoal and lampblack, of each, 2 parts ; as the last. c. (Marsh.) Mealed gunpowder, 66^ parts; sulphur, 11 parts; charcoal, 22^ parts; as before. Used for the ‘garniture’ of rockets, &c. STAYS. Syn. Coeset. Stays, “before womanhood, are instruments of barbarity and torture, and then they are needed only to give beauty to the chest. It is the duty of every mother, and every guardian of children, to inquire the purpose for which stays were in- troduced into female attire. Was it for warmth ? If so, they certainly fulfil the in- tention very badly, and are much inferior to an elastic woollen habit, or one of silk quilted with wool. Was it to force the ribs, while yet soft and pliable, into the place of the liver and stomach, and the two latter into the space al- lotted for ether parts, to engender disease and deformity to the sufferer and her children for generations ? Truly, if this were the object, the device is most successful, and the intention most ingeniously fulfilled.” (Eras. Wilson.) “ Only observe,” exclaimed Dr. John Hunter, “ only observe, if the statue of the Medicean Venus were to be dressed in stays, and her beautiful feet compressed into a pair of exe- crably tight shoes, it would extort a smile from an Heraclitus, and a horse-laugh from a Cynic.” “ The Turkish ladies express horror at seeing Englishwomen so tightly laced.” (Lady M. W. Montague.) The practice of tight-lacing has happily gone out of fashion since the remarks above quoted were made. STEAM. The application of steam in the laboratory, as a source of heat, is commonly effected by means of double pans, to the space between which steam, at a moderate pressure, is introduced, the arrangement being such as to permit of the condensed steam, or distilled water, being removed, by means of a cock, nearly as soon as formed, or as may be de- sirable. Another plan is to place coils of metal pipe along the bottom of cisterns, vats, &c., formed either of wood or metal, and to keep them supplied with high-pressure steam. “ It is quite susceptible of positive proof that by no arrangement yet discovered, can more than two thirds of the heat generated by a given quantity of coal, during combus- tion, be fairly absorbed and utilized in any of our manufactories; and, moreover, there are undeniable facts, which demonstrate that sel- dom, in the burning of coal, are more than three fourths of the total heat, which might be eliminated, actually obtained; thus justi- fying the supposition that one half of all the coal now consumed is virtually wasted, and lost