ACETIC ACID. 18 ciently low to keep the water solid. Said to answer well in cold climates. 3. Acetic acid containing 20§ of water may be deprived of a good deal of its superfluous water by standing over dry sulphate of soda. (Liebig.) It may then be used either with or without distillation. 4. Acetic acid, of ordinary strength, may be concentrated to any degree, by rectification once, or oftener, from dry acetate of potassa or soda, rejecting the first and last portions. The same acetate may be used repeatedly. The temperature need not exceed 400°; and must not rise above 570° Fahr. Chem. comp., 6(c. Anhydrous acetic acid, as it exists in the acetates, is usually regarded as the TEEOXIDE OE ACETYLE (i. 6., ‘ acetylic acid’); and hydrated acetic acid, as the hydrate of this oxide, the atom of water which it contains being basic, and capable of being replaced by metallic oxides and other bases. Dr. William- son and Prof. Kolbe, from recent researches, have, however, taken a different view of its com- position. The former regards the anhydrous acid as oxide oe othyle, and the hydrated acid as the hydrate of this oxide ; whilst the latter, from its electrolysis, assumes it to be methyl-oxal'ic acid. Prop. Pure hydrated acetic acid is a thin, colourless liquid above 62° Fahr.; at 50° to 55° it crystallises in large, brilliant, colourless, transparent needles and plates, and even at 60° if a crystal of the acid be dropped in; at 40° it is a solid crystalline mass. Sp. gr.— liquid, 1-063 (Mollerat) to 1-0635 (Mohr) ;i— crystallised, 1-135 at 55° Fahr. (lire). Odour, intensely pungent when concentrated, but grateful, fragrant, and refreshing, when dif- fused; taste, intensely sour and acrid, be- coming agreeable and refreshing, on suffi- cient dilution with water; volatile; inflam- mable, burning with a white flame; vapour of boiling acid highly combustible; oxidises iron, zinc, copper, nickel, and tin; dissolves camphor, resins, gum resins, volatile oils, gelatine, gliadine, coagulated albumen, and fibrine (as muscle or the crassamentum of the blood); it coagulates caseine, but not liquid albumen (as the serum of the blood and white of egg); miscible with alcohol, ether, and water in all proportions; boils at 248° Fahr. and is decomposed at a red heat. With the bases it forms salts called acetates (which see). Char., tests, ^c.—1. Free acetic 2iCA^reddens 1 1064—H. M. Witt (Ure’s “ Diet, of Arts, M., ^ M.f 5th ed.); 1063 to 1'065—Muspratt (“ Chemistry, Theor. ^ Prac.,” p. 2); 1 06296—Pereira (4th ed.); 10629—Brande; 1062—Ure; l ()57-;-Berzelius {Jahr. her. xvi, 192);—varia- tions evidently arising from difference of purity in the acid examined, or from difference of temperature. Tlie sp. gr. 1080, with other numbers given by Prof. Lehmann (“ Chemistry,” Day’s Transl.), is probably a misprint. a This is theboihng point given by the best authorities, and confirmed by Gerhardt (" Chimie Organique,” i, 718.) Ure made it 230® (an error corrected in 5th ed.), Lehmann says 243140, and others give it at 235°, 240°, &c. An acid of about 80§ (sp. gr. 1-073 tol 0743), its maximum density, boil* at 21S° to 220° Fahr. litmus paper, like the other acids; and may be readily recognisedby its odour and volatility:— 2. Sesquichloride of iron being added, and the acid then nearly saturated with ammonia, the fluid acquires a deep dark-red colour:—3. Solution of nitrate of silver is not clouded by free acetic acid (if pure); but it becomes troubled and cloudy when the free acid is sa- turated with ammonia :—4. Subnitrate of mer- cury gives, at once, a white, crystalline precipU tate:—5. It does not reduce terchloride of gt»ld, unless an excess of potassa be added, when metallic gold is immediately precipitated:— 6. The liquid being neutralised with potassa, is tested as an acetate (which see'). Estim. See Acetimetky. Organic mix- tures that cannot be thus tested, or from which the acid cannot be obtained by simple distilla- tion, may be neutralised, if acid, with carbon- ate of lime, boiled for a few minutes, cooled, filtered, the lime precipitated with dilute sul- phuric acid, and the whole submitted to distil- lation, when the acid content of the distillate may be estimated as above. Pur. “By heat, it escapes (entirely) in vapour; nothing is precipitated on the addi- tion of either nitrate of silver or chloride of barium. When a thin plate of silver is di- gested in it, and hydrochloric acid subsequently dropped in, no precipitate is formed. Its colour is unchanged by the addition of hydro- sulphuric acid, or ammonia; or by ferrocyanide of potassium, added after the ammonia.” (Ph. L.) Sometimes it is contaminated with sulphurous acid, which may be recognised by carefully inhaling the fumes, by its setting iodine free when tested with iodic acid, and by a white precipitate being formed on the addition of a little peroxide of lead; sometimes it contains a little hydrochloric acid, when it will give a cloudy precipitate with nitrate of silver; and sometimes it contains lead, which may be detected by its giving a brown or black precipitate with sulphuretted hydrogen and the sulphurets, and a yellow one with iodide of potassium. Adult. The acetic acid of the shops is chiefly adulterated with water. Sulphurous acid and lead are accidental contaminations; that of the latter often reaches 2g, making the acid poisonous. Phys. eff., 4'C. In its concentrated state it is a corrosive and an acrid poison. Taken inter- nally, it acts by dissolving the animal tissues, and by thus destroying the organisation, causes death, like the other acids. In the dilute form it acts as a stimulant, rubefacient, alterative, refrigerant, and escharotic Its action, as a condiment, is noticed under vinegar. Uses. Acetic acid is much employed by the chemist pharmaceutist, in the manufacture of various preparations, and in analysis; by the perfumer, in the composition of several of his most refreshing and agreeable scents; and in medicine, as an antiseptic, stimulant, rube- facient, alterative, refrigerant, and escharotic^