1048 PELAEGOXIC ACID—PENNYROYAL. quently employed for tlie same purpose. See Acaei, Veemin, &c. PELARGON'IC ACID. A compound ob- tained from Pelargonium roseum. It has pre- cisely the same composition as hydeated CENANTHIC ACID, and the two are probably identical. PELLICLE. See Ceystallization. ' PEL'LITORY. Sgn. Pellitoey of Spain; Pyeetheum (Ph. L. & E.), L. The root of Anacyclus Pyrethrum. It is a powerful topical excitant. It is chiefly employed as a masticatory in headache, toothache, palsy of the tongue, and facial neuralgia and rheum- atism ; and, made into a tincture with recti- fied spirit, it is a common remedy among dentists for the toothache. Internally, it has been given as a gastric stimulant, and in inter- mittents, &c. | to 1 dr. may be chewed at a time. PEL'TRY. The name applied to fur skins in the state in which they are received from the hunters. To prepare them as furs, the inside of them is generally first ‘ tawed ^ by the application of a solution of alum. They are next well dusted over and rubbed with hot plaster of Paris or whiting, and are, lastly, thoroughly dried and brushed clean. When it is desired to change or modify their colour, the grease being removed by lime water or a weak soda lye, they are stretched out on a table or board, and the ordinary liquid mor- dants and dyes are applied to them hot, by means of a painter^s brush. The furs of the rabbit and hare are rendered fit for the purposes of the felt and hat manu- facturers by a process called by the French ‘ secretage.’ This consists in thoroughly moist- ening the hair with a solution of quicksilver, 1 part, in aquafortis, 16 parts, diluted with half to an equal bulk of water. This is ap- plied with a brush, and the moistened skins being laid together, face to face, are dried as rapidly as possible in a stove room. See Fues. PEMPHI'GUS. Syn. Febeis btjllosa, POMPHOLYX, L. An eruption consisting of vesicles of various sizes, from a pea to a wal- nut, or even larger, filled with a pellucid or slightly coloured fluid, and attended hy more or less fever. There are several popular sy- nonyms of this affection. The French call it the ‘BUBBLE FEVEE,’ and the Germans, ‘ WATEE-BLADDEES.’ “ The bubbles raised under a common blister are a local pemphigus, only difiering from the disease in question in being produced by a known and local cause. The bubbles, in this disease, are raised upon a base of inflamed skin scarcely larger than the bladder which they support f and they occur either singly or in patches. “ They rise up very rapidly, frequently in the course of a few hours, and break in two or three days, when they are followed by an excoriated suiTace, which becomes covered by a thin crust, and speedily heals.” The varieties of pemphigus are acute anc chronic, “the former being active and brie in its course, and accompanied by a smar attack of feverishness; the latter slow, withou fever, but with more intrinsic constitutiona disturbance.” It is said to be infectious, an( has occasionally spread as an epidemic. The treatment of this disease has been al ready generally referred to under ‘ Vesiculat Eruptions^ {page 575). The best applicatioi to the eruption after the vesicles break is perhaps, powdered starch or arrow-root, em ployed as a dusting powder. The fever, whei severe, is usually of a typhoid character, am may be met by port wine, bark, and the minera acids. In slight cases a few doses of some saline aperient are generally sufficient. PEN'CILS. This name is applied to tla small brushes made of camel’s hair used b^ artists, as well as to the plumbago crayon familiarly known as black-lead pencils. Tin last are prepared by one or other of the fol lowing methods :— 1. The blocks of plumbago are exposed to i bright-red heat in a closely covered crucible and are afterwards sawn into minute sticks and mounted in cases of cedar or satin wood. 2. The plumbago, in powder, is calcined af before, and then mixed with an equal, or am other desired proportion of pure washed clay also in powder, after which the mixture ie reduced to a plastic state with water, am pressed into groves cut on the face of a smootl board, or into well-greased wooden moulds, ir which state it is left to dry. When dry, tb( pieces are tempered to any degree of hardnes; by exposing them, surrounded by sand oi powdered charcoal, in a closely covered cru - cible, to various degrees of heat. The crucible' is not opened until the Avhole has becom^ cold, when the prepared ‘ slips’ are removed and mounted as before. This method was invented by M. Conte, in 1795. 3. The dough or paste, prepared as last, i; reduced to the required form by forcing it: through a perforated plate (in a similar man- ner to that adopted for coloured crayons), oi into minute metallic cylinders, from which it may be readily shaken after it has become partially dry. Obs. The leads for some varieties of draw- ing-pencils are immersed for a minute in verv hot melted wax or suet before mounting them. To the composition for others a little lamp- black is added, to increase and vary the degree of blackness. The pencils for asses’ skin books and prepared papier are tipped with ‘fusibU metal.’ Numerous improvements in pencil- cases and pencil-mounts have been patented ol late years by Stevens and others. PENNYROY'AL. Sijn. Pulegium (Ph. L. & E.), Mentha p. (Ph. D.), L. “The recent and dried flowering herb of Mentha pulegium^ Linn.” (Ph. L.) Pennyeoyal tea is^ ijj popular emmenagogue, expectorant, and dia-^ phoretic, and is in common use in asthma