OILS (FIXED). 961 h. Olive oil congeals at 36° Fahr., and is completely solidified when a small bottle con- taining it is surrounded by ice, or a freezing mixture; but when mixed with poppy oil, it I remains partly liquid, even when the latter forms only l-4th of the mass ; if more than l-3rd of poppy oil is present, it does not so- lidify at all, unless cooled much below the [ freezing-point of water. i e. (Ph. E.) When olive oil is “carefully mixed with y^th part of its volume of a so- lution of 4 oz. of mercury in 8 fl. oz. 6 dr. of nitric acid (sp. gr. 1‘500), it becomes in 3 or i 4 hours like a firm fat, without any separation I of liquid oiiy d. M. Pontet recommends the mercurial solution to be made by dissolving 6 parts of mercury in parts of nitric acid (sp. gr. 11‘35), without heat; of this solution he adds 1 part to every 48 parts of the oil, and well shakes the mixture every 30 minutes, until it begins to solidify. This it does after about 7 hours in summer and 4 or 5 hours in winter, iand when the oil is pure it will have formed, in 24 hours, a mass so hard that some little force must be employed to thrust a glass rod into it. The other edible oils do not furnish a hard mass with nitrate of mercury. The solidity of the mass is exactly in proportion to the quantity of foreign oil present. When the sophistication is equal to l-8th of the whole, a distinct liquid layer separates; when the mixture contains ^ its volume of an in- ferior oil, one half only of the mixture be- comes solid, and the other half continues liquid. A temperature of about 90° Fahr. is Ithe best to cause the od and coagulum to [separate then perfectly from each other. I When the oil has been adulterated with \animal oil, the mixture solidifies in about five jhours; but in this case the coagulum consists |of the animal oil, whilst the olive oil floats on the surface, and may be decanted for further examination. This coagulum, on being heated, exhales the well-known odour of rancid fat or melted tallow. Uses, Hfc. The dietetical uses of olive oil are well known. In Spain and Italy it is com- monly employed as a substitute for butter. It is highly nutritious, but is digested with difficulty by some persons, and hence should be avoided by the dyspeptic. Like almond OIL, it is occasionally employed as a laxative and vermifuge, and is, perhaps, one*of the mildest known. In pharmacy it is extensively employed in the preparation of ceeates, lini- ments, OINTMENTS, and PLASTERS. Dose. For an adult, ^ to 1 wine-glassful as a mild aperient j for an infant, ^ to 1 teaspoonful, mixed up with an equal quantity of honey, syrup of roses, or syrup of violets. The white fibrous sediment which forms in the recently expressed oil is the ‘ amurca ’ of Pliny, and was formerly highly esteemed in medicine. Olive-oil Droppings. Syn. Sweet-oil d. The * foots ’ or ‘ deposits,’ and the ‘ drippings ’ of the casks, cisterns, and utensils. Used for machinery, making soap, &c. Olive Oil (Oxygenated). Syn. Oleum oliv^e oxygenatum (Ph. Batav.), L. Olive oil, 16 oz., is placed in a receiver surrounded with ice or very cold water, and chlorine is slowly transmitted through it for several days, or until it becomes thick and viscid, after which it is well washed wdth warm water. Palm Oil. Syn. Palm butter; Oleum PALM^, L. From the fruit of Elais Guineensis, and E. melanoeocca, the Guinea oil palms. Orange or red coloured; butyraceous or solid; smells of violets; unchanged by alka- lies ; bleached by sunlight, age, exposure, chlorine, chromic acid, and oil of vitriol; melts at 117|° Fahr. Sp. gr. *968. De- mulcent. Used to colour and scent oint- ments, pommades, &c.; but chiefly to make soap and candles. From Africa. Pi"ney Oil. Syn. Pinet tallow, P. dam- mar, P. RESIN. From Valeria Indica (Linn.), or poenoe tree. Resinous flavoured, fragrant; made into candles. Sp. gr. -926. Pop'py Oil. Syn. Oleum papaveris, L. ; Oliete, Huile blanche, Fr. From the seeds of Papaver somniferum (Linn.), or white poppy. Sweet; pale; dries and keeps well. Used for salads, paints, and soaps ; also (extensively) to adulterate almond oil, for the inferior qualities of which it is frequently sold. It does not freeze until cooled to 0° Fahr. Sp. gr. ’9243 to -9245. Prod. 48g to 54g. Rape Oil. Syn. Colza oil. Brown o.; Oleum rapje, L. From the seed of Brassica Napus (Linn.; cole or rape), and from Brassica campestris (Linn.; wild navew or rape). Glu- tinous; buttery at 25° Fahr. Dries slowly; makes soft soaps and good ointments, but bad plasters; smokes much in burning, unless well refined. Sp. gr. *9135 to ‘9136. Prod. 32g. Repined or pale rape oil (Oleum rap.e REPINUM, Ol. r. album) is prepared from crude rape oil, by agitating it with about 2g of oil of vitriol, previously diluted with about twice its weight of water, and, after 10 or 12 days’ repose, decanting the clear oil, and fil- tering it through Canton flannel or felt. The quality is improved by washing it with hot water or steam, before filtration. Used for lamps, blacking, and machinery; also exten- sively employed to adulterate both almond and olive oil. It forms the common ‘ sweet OIL ’ of the oilmen and druggists. Sp. gr. •9136 to *9140. See Colza Oil {above). Seal Oil. Syn. Oleum phoc^, L. From the hood seal, and harp seal, and other species of Phocidce. Pale seal oil is that which drains from the blubber before putrefaction commences, and forms about 60g of the whole quantity of oil obtained. It is very clear, free from smell, and, when recently prepared, not unpleasant in its taste. Refined seal oil is the last, washed and filtered. Ranks close after sperm oil. Brown or dark seal oil is 61