liG ALOES WOOD—ALOINE. lamina.” (Pli. L.) “ In thin pieces, translu- cent and garnet red; almost entirely soluble in spirit of the strength of sherry. Very rare.” (Ph. E.) Socotrine aloes are always preferred for medi- cinal purposes, and are the only variety used in perfumery, varnishes, and other nice pur- poses in the arts. Strained' Aloes. Syn, Melted Aloes ; Aloe cola'ta, L. Proc. 1. The aloes are melted in a copper-pan, hy the heat of steam or a water-bath, and are then pressed through a strong hair or wire-sieve, and allowed to cool. 2. As above, hut with the addition of about twice its weight of water; the decoction being strained and evaporated. Obs. Mocha, Indian, and other common aloes, treated in this way and coloured, are fre- quently sold for melted or strained ‘socotrines’ and ‘ hepatics.’ The colouring matter usually employed is the precipitated carbonate of iron (sesquioxide), or Venetian red, in very fine powder, with, sometimes, a little annatto. This fraud is not readily detected hy mere inspec- tion, hy those unaccustomed to these matters; and hence the impunity with which it is per- petrated. The object in melting aloes is to deprive it of the foreign matters, as sand, leaves, pieces of wood, &c., which the commoner kinds generally contain in large quantities. The action of the heat drives otf much of their nau- seous smell, at the same time that it deepens their colour, and renders their appearance more translucent and resinous, to .the disguise of their original nature- The operation, on the la7'ge scale, is usually carried on at night, in consequence of the horribly nauseous fumes evolved, which may he smelt at a great distance, and contaminate the clothes of those engaged in it for a long time afterwards. AL'OES WOOD. Syn. Al'oe-wood ; Eagle- wood; Agal'lochtjm (-kum), Lig'num al'oes, L. agal'lochi, L. a. ve"ri, L. aq'tjilj?:, L. aspal'athi, L. ; Agalloche, Bois d’ ALOES, Fr.; Aloeholz, Ger.; Calam'bac, Calam'bodc, Ind.; XYLO-AL'oESf. A name applied to the wood of aldex'ylon agaVlochum (Lam.), a leguminous tree of Cochin China; and (though apparently less correctly) to that of aquila"ria agallochum and a. ova'ta (Lour.), trees of tropical Asia, belonging to a different nat. order. Both are highly fragrant and aromatic ; used in fumigations and pastilles, and occasionally, hy cabinet makers and in- layers. The essential oil of the W’ood, dissolved in spirit, was regarded hy Hoffman as one of the best cordials and invigorants known. The same has also been said of a tincture of its resin. The same name and synonyms are popularly applied to the resin of the above woods (aloes- WOOD eesin), of which there are two varieties : —the one, light and porous, and filled with a highly fragrant resinous substance; the other, denser and less resinous. It is an oily concre- tion in the centre of the tree, the result of disease, which gradually hardens, and, in time, kills it. It is highly fragrant, and is said to be nervine, cephalic, cardiac, and stimulant. "The poivderhs, regarded as tonic and astringent. Of all perfumes this is said to be the one most esteemed by oriental nations. ALOERESm'IC ACID (al-o-e-). A substance obtained, by Schunk, from aloes. It possesses no practical interest. See Algetic Acid. ALOESTC ACID (of Pereira; -o-es'-). Th^ acid existing in a watery solution of aloes. Trommsdorff supposed it to be gallic acid, but Dr. Pereira regards it as a distinct principle. It is prepared by adding diacetate of lead to an infusion of aloes, and decomposing the pre- cipitate with sulphuretted hydrogen, as noticed under Absinthic acid. Its solution is turned olive-brown by the per-salts of iron; whereas a solution of gallic acid assumes .a blue or bluish-black colour when so treated. ALOE'SIHE (of Pfaff; -o-e'-sm). Syn. AloE- bitt'ee (M-0-), Aloe-exteact'ive, Aloe- soap' ; (crude) Al'oine (?); Aloesi'na, L. The substance which forms the principal por- tion of the bulk of aloes. It is obtained by simply evaporating the cold and filtered infu- sion or decoction. It is brown, very bitter, soluble in water and weak spirit, but insoluble in alcohol and ether. It appears to be a mix- ture of the various proximate principles of aloes. As a medicine it is milder than aloes. ALOET'IC. Syn. Aloet'icus, L. ; Aloe- TIQUE, Fr. Of or belonging to aloes. In medicine, pharmacy, &(c., applied to any prepa- ration containing aloes as a characteristic in- gredient ; made or obtained from aloes. Sub- stantively, an aloetic medicine. ALOET'IC ACID (of Braconnot.). Syyu Alo'ic acid, a substance obtained by treat- ing aloes with sulphuric acid. Chevreuil re- gards it as artificial tannin. Aloetic Acid (of Schunk). One of the four peculiar acids which, according to Schunk, result from the action of nitric acid on aloes ; the others being aloeeeshstic acid, che^- SAMMic A., and chetsolepic a. (which see; as also PoLiCHEOMic Acid). It has not been employed in the arts. ALO'IC ACID. See Aloetic Acid. AL'OINE (-o-in). [Eng., Fr.] ; Syn. Al'oTx; Aloi'na, L.—1. Aloesine* (see above),—The Messrs. T. & H. Smith, of Edinburgh, ha\’'o applied this name to a crystalline substance, which they assert to be the pure cathartfc principle of aloes. Their process is to evapo- rate to the consistence of a syrup, in vacuo, a solution obtained by exhausting a mixture of aloes and sand, with cold wa/cr, and then to seit it aside for a Lw days. The resulting dark crystalline mass is purified by pressure between folds of bibulous paper, and repeated crystal- lisation from hot water. Barbados aloes arfe commonly used for the pui-pose ; but soft or semi-liquid Socotrine aloes, or the unevaporated Socotrine-aloes juice, is probably its best source. —Dose, 1 to 2 gr.