3 9 S; 10 Yict., cap. 74; ami 10 & 11 Yict., r. Gl. 3 See !>. 3, &c. r I BATH. 277 (see engr. 3), and made of thin sheet-iron, will occasionally be found usefuld The situation, and the minor details con- nected with the comfort and convenience of the hath, must greatly depend on the charac- ter of the budding, and the sum to be devoted to the purpose. When possible, the bath-room should always be on the same floor as the bed- ^ rooms, of easy access to them, and so situated I and arranged, that a plentiful and constant ^ supply of pure water can be ensured, and the > waste water removed without trouble or incon- I venience. The basement story should always \ be avoided; for, as observed by Dr. Ure, there i is a coldness and dampness belonging to it, in < almost all weathers, which is neither agreeable • nor salubrious. 1 The ranges of the temperature of water ( appropriate to the respective baths, according t to the common nomenclature, are shewn in the following Table:— Name. Temperature. Falir. Cold bath2 Temperate bath... Tepid bath Warm bath Hot bath 3.3° to 75° 75 „ 82 82 „ 90 90 „ 98 98 „ 112 Concluding Remarks. The importance, and indeed, the absolute necessity of frequent per- sonal ablution, has been already insisted on and explained.^ But however important and ) beneficial the use of water in this way may be, the effects arising from the immersion of the ' body in that liquid, as in the practice of bath- ing, are far more extensive and complete, i What the one does usefully but not completely, ilhe other accomplishes readily, satisfactorily, and perfectly. There is no absolute succeda- aeum for the entire bath. Its physiological effects are peculiar to itself, and of the utmost impoi’tance in pathology and hygiene. The practice of wearing flannel, the daily use of .•lean linen, the mere washing of the more ex- posed parts of the body, are hut poor attempts it cleanliness, without the occasional, if not Frequent, entire submersion of the laody in ivater. Nor should the action of judicious bathing in the promotion of personal comfort md personal beauty be forgotten. Intellectual md moral vigour are also gradually, but materi- illy, influenced and pi’omoted by the beneficial iction of bathing on the system; for mind ind conscience being linked to matter in the house we live in,’ become perturbed, or le- hargic, in almost exact accordance with the 1 A sniiill cast-iron ‘horse’ with tliree legs (not shewn n tlie engr.), to support the ‘warmer’ about ^ inches above be bottom of tlie bath-tub, and to keep it steady and ipright, is usually sold with it. See Coi.D Bath (infra); and so of the others. fluctuations of our physical health. The neglect of bathing in this country, is to us, an absolute enigma. We are always talking about health, and continually professing to be seeking it; but the practical applications of the principles which we advocate, and the doctrines which we teach, are, unfortunately, the exceptions and not the rule. The phleg- matic Englishman, unlike his lively French neighbour, is indifferent and careless on this matter—he would, in too many cases, rather spend his spare coin, be they pence or silver, in pernicious luxury, or in intemperate indul- gence, than in the healthy recreation of the bath. “ On the Continent ‘ maisons des bains ’ (bathing-houses) are almost as numerous as the chemists and druggists shops are in this country. Yet the French need the ” former less than we do, “ because they live more tem- perately, and are less ground down to think and work; and because they perform general personal ablution with as much zeal as though it were a religious duty.” “ The Messieurs are wise enough to discover, that life is not one jot sweeter by passing sixteen hours a day behind the desk or counter, to the exclu- sion of all recreation, except recreation be to count the gains of such excitement; or to indulge the hope of amassing a sufficiency to do the ‘ important ’ at the close of a wearied life, when and which the infirmities of age forbid us to enjoy. A Frenchman lives, works, and enjoys himself to the last. Prince Talleyrand died in armour; his life was a bouquet in which all but the sweetest flowers were excluded. Advise an Englishman to take a bath; the answer is, he cannot spare the time, and he hates the bother of uncravating. The waste of the one, and the trouble of the other, add not to his income, whatever they may to his health. The roast beef, the bran- died wines, and the London-brewed, are his stomach’s deities ; the minor godships being blue-pills and blade-draughts. The latter are indispensable attendants upon the former, to temper down Mr. Bull, lest he become a giant in noses and carbuncles. A Frenchman knows no ill but what pleasure denies; he rarely has dyspepsia, gout, rheumatism, or fevers. Half his life is spent in elysidm—half ours in pur- GATOEY. Indigestion, headaches, restless nights—the blues when awake, and the terribles when asleep—fall to the lot of the mind- absorbed and grossly-fed Londoner; whilst our lively Parisian, with his light meal and still more lightsome body, finds trouble only in broken limbs, or positive starvation.”^ Happily the Acts of Parliament" to encour- age the establishment of public baths and WASH-HOUSES “for the health, comfort, and welfare of the inhabitants of populous towns and districts,” have led to the opening of several of these useful institutions in London * Culverwell, “ Baths and Bathing.'’'