I 218 ARSENIOUS ACID. Various modifications of is obtained, more or less deep, brilliant, and glistening. Both these deposits may be ob- tained simultaneously by bolding nearly verti- cally over the flame a glass-tube about 8 or 10 inches long, and |tbs of an inch in diameter. See (/), below. e. A solution of arsenious acid may be ob- tained by letting the flame play upon 3 or 4 drops of water placed on the under side of the piece of glass or china, to which the ‘ liquid tests ’ may be then applied. Another plan is to apply drops of the liquid tests to the plate as above, and to let the flame play on them successively. f. The true arsenical ‘ spot ’ or film ’ is of a hlackish-brown colour, and generally of a very deep hair-brown, \isually surrounded at the cir- cumference, with a white film of arsenious acid; whilst that of ‘ antimony, ’ which in some points is similar, is of a deep black colour, and but feebly lustrous, and, when viewed by ‘ transmitted light,^ appears smoky-black; whereas an arsenical spot viewed in the same way, appears brown. It is further distinguished from others by—a. Treated with concentrated nitric acid, it instantly disappears, leaving upon the surface of the liquid traces of the metal, which only dissolve on the application of heat. This solution gently and carefully heated, leaves a white residuum which, when cold, gives with a concentrated solution of nitrate oj silver, a dull-red precipitate of arseniate of silver :—/3. The nitric solution (see a., above) treated with a few drops of sulphurous acid, and subsequently with sulphuretted hydrogen, gives a canary yellow precipitate of ‘ sulphuret of arsenic,’ which readily redissolves forming a colourless solution with ammonia :—y. The arsenical spot when heated is turned bright yellow by sulphuretted hydrogen, and is then readily dissolved, as before, by ammonia, and by its bicarbonate; whereas one of ‘ anti- mony ’ is turned of a deep orange-red, or red- dish-browm, by sulphuretted hydrogen, is not readily dissolved by ammonia, and is scarcely or not at all affected by bicarbonate of am- monia :—It is freely soluble in and removed by hypochlorite of soda; a reagent which does not affect antimonial spots:—e. Heated by a flame of pure hydrogen an arsenical stain rapidly disappears. A mixed stain of anti- mony and arsenic does not disappear by the action of the last two reagents, and is shown to contain arsenic by the tests a and ^ {above) : —When hydrochloric acid is present zinc stains are sometimes formed, but they do not re- semble those from arsenic:—rj. The flame which produces it is very pale blue or bluish-white ; whereas antimoniuretted hydrogen burns with a pale-green or greenish-yellow flame,^ and a ‘white smoke,’ both of which are character- istic. Susc. 5,5ou,oo5 (Danger & Flandin); (Commissioners of the Acad. Fr.); sgglotjo (Mohr); 1 “A veiy pale lemon-yellow flame.” (Taylor “On Poisons,” 2nd ed., 393.) weak traces at Chem. u. Pharm.’’); the of a gr. (Dr. A. T. Thomson).'^ Obs. Marsh’s test is admirable for its sim- plicity, delicacy, and trustworthiness, as well as for the ease of its application. It is adapted to all liquids, whether colourless or coloured, which are not so glutinous as to inconveniently ‘ froth ’ during the ex- trication of the hydrogen. the original apparatus have been proi^osed to obviate this difficulty; among which the one chiefly deserving notice is figured in the margin. It consists of a bent tube having two large bulbs blown in it, and fitted with a stop-cock and jet in the usual manner. In this case the grains or fragments of zinc are put into the lower bulb {a). A more complicated modification of this instrument, but one not actually more efficient, though .occasionally more convenient, has been proposed by a com- mittee appointed by tbe Prussian Government. It resembles in principle the common appa- ratus for obtaining light by the action of spongy platinum on hydrogen gas but in lieu of tbe stop-cock and plati- num, it is furnished with a tube similar to those figured under Ellis’s and Lassaigne’s tests, before no- ticed. This apparatus, as simplified by Dr. lire, is shewn in the engr. Tbe ‘ zinc ’ is placed in the tube (b), in which the cork is then inserted ; and the ‘sus- pected’ liquid, after being acidulated with sulphuric acid, is poured into the larger tube (a) until its surface is level with the 2 M. Signoret states tliat lie has obtained deposits witli only the 1-200,000,000th part of arsenic in the liquid, which is equiv. to a solution of 1 gr. in 3000 gal. of water. T)r. A. S. Taylor found that with ffl. oz. of water con- taining l-2160th of a gr. of arsenic (= l-2,000,000th), very faint and scarcely perceptible deposits begin to be formed; with l-1080th of a gr. (= 1-1,000,000th), slight brown stains are procurable; with l-720th of a gr. (=l-800,000tli), the stains become more decided; and with thel-67Ui of a gr. (1-64,800th), the deposits are decided and characteristic; and “ it is at this point that the process begins to be avail- able for tlie purposes of legal medicine.” (“ On Poisons” p.397.) According to"M. Villain, 226 metallic deposits, of an average diameter of l-12th of an inch, may be obtained by ‘ Marsh’s ])rocess’ from l-65th of a gr. of arsenious acid. The ‘average weight’ or each, if there were no loss, would be about l-15,000th gr.; or, allowing for loss, probably about l-25,000th of a gr., or even less. (“Journ. de Chirnie,” 1846, p. 11.) The different statements of authors on the above point, may be chiefly referred to the quantities of liquid tested. We have ourselves confirmed the accuracy of Dr. Taylor’s statement by three distinct series of experiments.