392 OAOUTCHOUCINE. and the period required is one hour or more, according to the temperature. A much lower temperature is, however, sufficient, if the dura- tion of the exposure is much extended, or the compound mass is softened with any of the common solvents of India rubber. The process of sulphuring, or mineralization, is differently conducted in different manufac- tories. Under Mr. Burke’s patent, oxysul- 'phuret or amorphous sulphuret of antimony (formed by decomposing a solution of crude antimony in a lye of potash or soda, with hydrochloric acid) is employed. This powder he combines with either India rubber or gutta percha, or mixtures of them, by kneading in a masticator’^ for 2 or 3 hours, and after strong compression in a mould whilst still warm, he exposes the mass to a steam heat, ranging from 250° to 280° Fahr. The block, so prepared, is afterwards cut into sheets, &c. The advantages possessed by the product are, that it possesses no unpleasant odour, nor does the sulphur effioresce on its surface, as in ordinary vulcanized India rubber. Under Mr. Christopher Nickel’s patent (1849), one part of sulphur is kneaded with six parts of caoutchouc, and then pressed into moulds, as before. He also vulcanizes rubber by exposing it in a cylinder heated in a steam “jacket” to the fumes of sulphur or to sul- phuretted gases, given off from a retort con- nected with the apparatus. The rubber thus prepared he next subjects to hydraulic pres- sure in moulds, at a temperature ranging between 220° and 250° Fahr. Small articles or sheets of India rubber may be EXTEMPOEANEOiiSLY VULCANIZED at Com- mon temperatures by simple immersion, for a minute or two, in a mixture of bisulphuret of carbon, 97| parts, and of sulphur, 2^ parts; after which they must be well washed first in weak alkaline lye, and next in pure water. Mr. Parkes employs 100 instead of 97^ parts of the bisulphuret. This method is termed “ cold sulphuring.” An excellent method of vulcanization, recom- mended by Mr. Parkes, particularly appli- cable to small articles, consists in immersing them for about 3 hours in a close vessel con- taining a solution oi poly sulphur et of potassium at 25° Baume (sp. gr. 1T97), and of the tem- perature of 240° Fahr. It is afterwards washed in an alkaline lye, then in pure water, and dried. Among the many applications of vulcanized India rubber those connected with its elas- ticity and its enormous contractile power when extended are particularly striking. Under Mr. E. Smith’s patent, “ torsion springs” for roller blinds, door springs, clock springs, car- riage springs, &c., are made of it. Mr. Hodges, in another patent, has availed himself of the same property as a new mechanical power. Short lengths of caoutchouc, which he terms “ vulcanized power purchases,” are successively drawn down from or lifted to a fixed bearing, and attached to any weight which it is required to raise; when a sufficient number of these power-purchases are fixed to ' the weight, their combined elastic force lifts it from the ground. Thus ten purchases of the elastic strength each of 50 lb. raise 500 lb. Each purchase is 6 inches long, and contains about li oz. of vulcanized caoutchouc. These ten purchases, if stretched to the limit of their elasticity (not of their cohesive strength), will lift a weight exceeding 650 lb. The same principle has been applied to relieve and equalize the strain on ships’ cables, especially where several boats are towing one vessel j and as a projectile force. A numW of power purchases, attached to the barrel of a gun constructed to project harpoons, will exert a power, if suddenly relieved, propor- tioned to their aggregate forces. By similar contrivances balls may be projected 200 yards or more, and a charge of No. 4 shot can be thrown 120 yards. A bow, in which the string alone is elastic (the reverse of the usual form), has been contrived which throws a 30-inch arrow 170 yards. The last great improvement in the manu- facture of caoutchouc is the discovery that by continuing the process of vulcanization for a longer time at an increased heat and under pressure, a hard black substance is obtained, which can be turned in a lathe like ebony. This substance has already been applied to an extraordinary number of uses. See Vul- canite. An exceedingly useful combination of cork and India rubber has lately been introduced. See Kamptulicon. Facti'Tious Caoutchouc. See Consolidated Oil. CAOUT'CHOUCINE. An extremely light :l fluid obtained by distilling India rubber. Prep. (Barnard’s patent process.) A highly j volatile fluid, discovered by Mr. Barnard. India rubber or caoutchouc, as imported, cut into small lumps, containing about 2 cubic inches each, is thrown into a cast-iron still, connected with a well-cooled worm-tub (any fiat vessel with a large evaporating surface will do, the entire top of which can be re- moved for the purpose of cleaning it out) ; and | heat is applied in the usual way, until the thermometer ranges to about 600° Fahr., when nothing is left in the still but dirt and char- coal. The dark-coloured fetid oil which has distilled over is next rectified along with Jrd its weight of water, once or oftener; and at each rectification becomes brighter and paler, until at about sp. gr. *680 it is colourless, and highly volatile. The product is then shaken up with nitro-muriatic acid, or chlorine, in the j proportion of a i of a pint of the acid to 1 gallon of the liquid. To enable the dirt to be j the more easily removed from the bottom of the still, common solder, to the depth of about \ an inch, is thrown in.—Prod. 80g. Prop., Mixed with alcohol, caoutchou- i