369 BROOM—BROWN DYE. 8. Salt of sorrel, 1 oz.; sal ammoniac, 3 oz. ; distilled vinegar, 1 quart; dissolve. As the last. Much used for bronze-figures. 9. A very weak solution of bichloride of pla- tinum, applied with a hair pencil, or by im- mersion. Used for binding screws, holders, and other small articles of copper and brass. ; 10. Sulphate of iron and sulphate of copper, of each, 1 oz.; water, 1 pint; dissolve; wash the surface of the articles with it; let them dry; then apply a solution of verdigris, 2 oz., dissolved in strong vinegar, \ pint; when dry, j polish them with a soft brush, and either some 11 plumbago or colcothar. Used for tin castings. 11. The articles (properly cleaned) are either immersed in, or washed over, with a solution of sulphate of copper or of verdigris. In a [ short time they acquire a coating of pure metallic copper, and are then washed. This only answers with ‘iron^ and ‘steel’ goods. It is admirably suited for ‘ iron castings.’ 12. An antique appearance may be given i to ‘ silver’ by either exposing it to the fumes j of hydrosulphuret of ammonia, or immersing I it for a very short time in a solution of I hydrosulphuret of ammonia, or in dilute nitric j acid. j Sur'face Bronzing. A term commonly ap- plied to the process of imparting a bronze- j like or metallic appearance to the prominent ; portions of the surfaces of figures made of I paper, wood, plaster of Paris, &c. It is ef- I fected by first giving them a coat of oil-varnish j or size, and when this is nearly dry, applying, I with a ‘ dabber ’ of cotton, or a camel-hair i pencil, any of the ordinary metallic bronze- ! powders before referred to. Sometimes the j powder is placed in a little bag of muslin, j and dusted over the surface. The articles I should be afterwards varnished. I Paper is bronzed by mixing the bronze- I powders up w'ith a little loeak gum-water, and I burnishing the surface when dry and hard, j BROOM. The common name of the plant spar'tium scopa!'rium. \ Broom Ashes. Prom broom-stalks burnt. I Formerly used as a diuretic in dropsy. ! Salt of Broom. Obtained by dissolving brooyn-ashes in water, and filtering and evapo- ; rating the solution. It consists principally of ! carbonate of potassa. It was formerly used i in dropsy, and as an antacid, &c. ! BROSSE DE CORAIL. [Fr.] The root of I lucerne {medica'go sati'va), cleaned, dried, and i hammered at the end. Used as a tooth- j brush. j BROTH. Jus (coctis carnibus), Jtjs'cij- ; LUM, L.; Bouillon, Jus, Fr.; Fleischbeuhe, ! Gcr. In cookery, the liquor in which flesh I has been boiled. Broth is distinguished from I soup by its inferior strength and quantity of I seasoning, &c. It contains much of the nu- ! triment of the meat. See Boiling, Soup, &c. BROWN DYE. Every shade of larown may be produced, almost at will, by mixtures of ; reds and yellows with blues and blacks; or directly, by simple dyes. The following are examples: — a. For Cotton :— 1. Give the ‘goods’a mixed mordant of ace- tate of alumina and acetate of iron, followed by a bath of madder or of madder and fustic. Excess of acetate of alumina turns it on the AMARANTH-TINT; the acetate of iron darkens it. 2. First ^galU the ‘goods,’ then turn them for a short time through the black bath ; next give them a mordant of sulphate of copper, then pass them through a decoction of fustic, afterwards through a bath of madder, and again through the solution of sulphate of copper ; drain, dry, rinse well, and finish with a boil in soap-and-water. This gives a chest- nut-brown. 3. First give the ‘ goods ’ a mordant of alum, then a bath of madder, and next a bath of fustic to which a little green copperas has been added. This gives a cinnamon-brown. b. For Linen :—This varies little from that commonly employed for ‘ cotton.’ c. For Silk :— 1. One of the above mordants is followed by a bath made by mixing equal parts of the decoctions of logwood, fustic, and Brazil-wood. The shade may be varied by altering the pro- portions of the decoctions; Brazil-wood red- dening, logwood darkening, and fustic yellowing, the tint. 2. Annotta, 4 oz. ; and pearlash, 1 lb.; are dissolved in boiling water, q. s.; the silk is passed through it for two hours, then taken out, and squeezed dry; it is next passed through a mordant of alum, and then through a bath of Brazil-wood, followed by another of logwood to which a little green copperas has been added. d. For Wool :— 1. Boil the ‘ cloth ’ in a mixed mordant of alum, common salt, and water, then dye it in a bath of logwood to which a little green copperas has been added. 2 oz. of alum, and 1 oz. of salt, are required for every lb. of wool. 2. Boil the ‘ goods ’ in a mordant of alum and sulphate of iron, then pass them through a bath of madder. The more copperas the darker wnll be the dye. Good proportions are 2 parts of alum and 3 of copperas. 3. Give a mordant of alum and tartar, then pass the goods through a madder-bath ; next run them through a bath of galls and sumach or logwood to which a little acetate or sulphate of iron has been added. 4. Mordant the ‘ cloth ’ as last, dye in a madder-bath, remove the cloth, add a little acetate or sulphate of iron, and again pass it through the bath, as long as necessary. 5. Give the ‘cloth’ a light-blue ground with indigo, and then a mordant of alum; rinse, and lastly run it through a bath of madder. 6. A mordant of alum and tartar, followed by, fii-st a bath of madder, and afterwards a 24