706 GOLD. I common method of chemical analysis. The gold may he thrown down from its solution by adding a solution of protosulphate of iron ; the precipitate, after being washed, dried, and gently heated, may be weighed as pure gold. Pois., 8fc. The soluble preparations of gold (chlorides) are violent .poisons. The symptoms resemble those occasioned by corrosive sub- limate, but are somewhat less violent. Me- tallic gold in a minute state of division is also capable of producing very unpleasant con- sequences, and even endangering life. The antidote is iron filings or a solution of sul- phate of iron, given conjointly with an emetic. Uses. The numerous applications of gold in the arts and the daily transactions of life need only be alluded to here. In medicine, gold has been given in the form of powder, in scrofula and syphilis, by Chrestien, Niel, and others, with apparent advantage. Bose. i gr. to 1 gr., 3 or 4 times a day, in phis, or as a friction on the tongue and gums. An ointment made of 1 gr. of powdered gold and 30 gr. of lard has been applied by Niel to the skin deprived of the epidermis (ender- inically), in the above diseases. The more important chemical compounds containing gold, the alloys and commercial forms of the metal, together with certain fac- titious substances popularly called ‘ gold,’ are noticed in alphabetical order below :—■ Ammoni'uret of Gold*. Syn. Aueate of AMMONIA, BeETHOLLET’S FULMINATING GOLD ; Aueum ammoniatum. Ammonia aueas, L. Prep. By adding liquor of ammonia to a solution of gold in aqua regia (terchloride), as long as a reddish-yellow precipitate (fulmi- nating gold) forms; the latter must be col- lected, washed, and dried with the greatest possible caution. Obs. Ammonia fails to precipitate teroxide of gold from solutions which are not tolerably concentrated, and in those containing free acid or ammoniacal salts the precipitate only forms upon boiling the solution. Before adding the ammonia, it is, therefore, proper to drive off the excess of acid, if any, by the application of heat. See Fulminating Com- pounds. Chlo"rides of Gold. Gold forms two com- pounds with chlorine:— 1. Protochlo"ride of Gold. A yellowdsh- white mass, formed when a solution of ter- chloride of gold is evaporated to dryness, and the residuum is exposed to a heat of about 440° Fahr., until fumes of chlorine cease to be evolved. It is insoluble in water, which decomposes it, slowdy wLen cold, but rapidly by the aid of heat, into metallic gold and terchloride of gold. 2. Terchlo"ride of Gold. Syn. Chloeide OF GOLD, PeECHLOEIDE OF G., MUEIATE OF G. ; AuEI CHLOEIDUM, A. TEECHLOEIDUM, A. MUEIAS, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) Gold, 1 part; nitro-hydrochloric acid, 3 parts; dissolve. evaporate until vapours of chlorine begin to be disengaged, then set the solution aside to crystallize. Prop. Orange-red crystalline needles, or ruby-red prismatic crystals; deliquescent; | soluble in water, ether, and alcohol, forming a j deep-yellow solution; at the heat of 500° Fahr. | it suffers decomposition, chlorine being given off and pure gold left behind. Protosulphate of iron, oxalic, sulphurous, and phosphorous acids, and most of the metals, decompose its solution with the precipitation of metallic , gold. Terchloride of gold combines with several of the metallic chlorides, forming a series of double salts, which are mostly yellow when in crystals, and red whe» deprived of w'ater. Use, life. It has been employed by Duportal, Chrestien, Niel, Cullerier, Legrand, and others, as a substitute for mercury, in scrofula, bron- chocele, chronic skin diseases, &c.; also as a caustic. Dose, g’g gr., dissolved in distilled water, or made into a pill with starch; or, in frictions on the gums, in quantities of ^gto yg gr. Mixed with excess of bicarbonate of potassa, it forms a good gilding solution for small articles of copper; these are first cleaned with dilute nitric acid, and then boiled for some time in the mixture. Obs. The above is the preparation referred to w'henever ‘ chloride’ or ‘ muriate of gold’ is spoken of. Chlo"ride of Gold and Sodium. Syn. Soda- CHLOEIDE OF GOLD, AUEO-CHLOEIDE OF SODIUM; SODII AUEO-CIILOEIDUM, AUEI ET soDii CHLOEOEETUM, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) Terchloride of gold, 85 parts; chloride of so- dium, 16 parts; dissolve in a little distilled I water, evaporate until a pellicle forms, then put it aside to crystallize. It forms beautiful '| orange-coloured rhombic prisms. Bose, (^c. 2’g to j’2 gr., made into a pill with starch or lycopodium, in the same cases in which the terchloride is ordered. Mixed with 2 or 3 times its weight of orris powder, it has been used in frictions on the tongue and gums; and an ointment, made with 1 g. of the salt, mixed with 36 gr. of lard, has been applied to the skin deprived of the epidermis by a blister. (See above.) Cy'anide of Gold. Syn. Teecyanide of GOLD, CyANUEET OF G.; AUEI CYANIDUM, A. CYANUEETUM, L. Prep. 1. Add a solulion of pure cyanide of potassium to a neutral solu- tion of pure chloride of gold, as long as a pre- cipitate forms, carefully avoiding excess; lastly, wash and dry the powder. 2. (Desfosses.) Boil freshly precipitated teroxide of gold (washed, but not dried) in .dilute hydrocyanic acid, until the liquid as- sumes a beautiful yellow tint, then evaporate it to dryness over a water bath. Prop., uses, &fc. This salt is a pale-yellow powder, insoluble in water, but very soluble in a solution of cyanide of potassium, forming the DOUBLE CYANIDE OF GOLD AND POTASSIUM