I 533 DROWNING—DRUGS. j frequently follows lengthened attacks of ex- Ihausting chronic diseases. ! The treatment of dropsy, perhaps, more than |iny other disease, depends upon the circum- I stances with which it is connected, and, more [especially, upon those which have caused it. jThe acute inflammatory forms of dropsy gene- rally require depletion. In most other cases, .tonics may be advantageously administered. Iro promote the absorption of the accumulated ! fluids, diuretics are commonly I’esorted to, \Conflrmed dropsy (especially hydrocephalus land HYDROTHORAx), Occurring in patients either much debilitated by previous disease or of a bad habit of body, is seldom curable. DROWNING. The cause of death from submersion in water is the entire seclusion ;of air from the lungs, by which the aeration I of the venous blood is prevented. In conse- quence of this deprivation of air, venous blood ! circulates through the arterial system, while I the pulmonary vein ceases to convey oxygenated blood to the heart. Under ordinary circum- stances, in the course of 4 or 5 minutes after the access of air has been cut off, life becomes extinct. Many cases have, nevertheless, oc- curred of persons being submerged for 15 or 20 minutes, and even longer, and where per- fect insensibility has existed, in which recovei’y has taken place. Prev. The specific gravity of the human body is less than that of water, so long as the lungs are partially filled with air; and this difterence is sufficient to keep the body float- |ing with the mouth and nostrils free for i respiration, provided the face is turned up- wards by throwing the head back on the shoulders, by which the weight of the head is sustained by the water. When a person ; throws himself into the water, the body rises [(rapidly to the surface and assumes nearly the erect position, the upper part of the head, down to a little below the eyes, remaining above the surface of the water. This arises from the greater density of the legs and thighs I compared to that of the chest, which acts as a species of float or buoy to the rest of the body. In this situation the head may be thrown back, so that the face may form the exposed I portion, as before mentioned, when respiration may be carried on without inconvenience in i still water, and regularly, but sufficiently, so i as to sustain life for some time, even in a rough sea. The adoption of this simple pre- caution would have saved thousands of valu- able lives. Another point which should be remembered by every person in danger of drowning is, that there is always a considerable amount of residual air in the lungs, in a nearly deoxidized I state, and that if this air is expelled by two or three forced inspirations, and a deep inspi- ration is then taken, a larger quantity of vital air will be introduced into the lungs, and the blood will continue aerated for a proportionally longer time; and, consequently, a longer period will elapse before another inspiration will be required. If we prepare ourselves by taking two or three forced inspirations, and then take a full inspiration, we may remain for 1^ or 2 minutes before a second attempt at respiration need be made. This is the plan adopted by the pearl fishers, and other divers who are remark- able for remaining beneath the surface of the water for some time. A person in danger of shipwreck, or expecting immediate submersion, in any other situation, should have recourse to this expedient, which would prevent the dreadful effects of attempting respiration whilst under water. Treat. The first object is the restoration of the animal heat. For this purpose, the wet clothes should be removed, and the body, after being well dried, surrounded with warm air. In the absence of a warm-air bath, the body may be laid between well-heated blankets, and bottles of hot water applied to the feet and armpits. Gentle friction with warm flannel or the hands should also be assiduously em- ployed. Meanwhile attempts should be made to excite respiration artificially; and when the apparatus is at hand, slight shocks of electri- city should be kept up at the same time. On the appearance of returning life, such as sighing or convulsive twitching, a vein may be opened. The throat may be tickled with the finger or a feather, to excite vomiting, and a teaspoonful of warm water administered. If the power of swallowing exists, a tablespoonful of warm wine or brandy-and-water may be given. Even if no symptom of returning animation appear, these means of recovery should be persisted in for three or four hours. In the treatment of this species of asphyxia, nasal stimulants, as ammonia, aromatic vinegar, &c., should be avoided, as well as the injection of tobacco smoke, both of which have been found highly prejudicial. The practice of holding the body with the head downwards, which is sometimes adopted by the vulgar and ignorant, under the idea of allowing the water to run out by the mouth, is still more dan- gerous and absurd. The supposition that water is inhaled by drowning persons, instead of air, is perfectly fallacious. The peculiar mechanism of the glottis, or upper portion of the wind- pipe, is such as to prevent, by the spasmodic closure of the epiglottis, the entrance of more than a very trifling and accidental quantity of water, which is altogether too insignificant to produce any very injurious effects. See As- phyxia. DRUGS. Substances used in medicine, sold by druggists, and compounded by apothecaries and physicians. Our continental neighbours, wiser than ourselves, not merely require that persons engaged in selling and dispensing drugs and pharmaceutical preparations shall be fully qualified by previous education and training for the task, but also tliat the various articles they sell and use shall be commercially pure and of the proper quality. In the United