INTERMITTENT FEVER. 783 fill our gaols, and fully an equal proportion of tlie poverty and wretchedness which pau- perizes our population and crowds our work- houses, are traceable to this damning vice of the Anglo-Saxon race—intemperance. To cure hauitual deunkenness various means have been proposed, most of which are j more ingenious than useful. The following, i however, deserves respectful notice :— ( Dr. Kain, an eminent American physician, i recommends tartar emetic, given in alterative (I and slightly nauseating doses, for the cure of |i habitual drunkenness. “Possessing,” he ob- ll serves, “ no positive taste itself, it communi- t| cates a disgusting quality to those fluids in I which it is dissolved.” “ These liquors, with III' the addition of a very small quantity of emetic tartar, instead of relieving, increase the sensation of loathing of food, and quickly pro- duce in the patient an indomitable repugnance to the vehicle of its administration. My method of prescribing it has varied according to the habits, age, and constitution of the patient. A convenient preparation of the medicine is 8 gr., dissolved in 4 oz. of boiling water ; ^ an oz. (say a table-spoonful) of the solution to be put into half a pint, pint, or quart of the patient’s favourite liquor, and to bo taken daily in divided portions. If vomit- ing and purging ensue” (which is seldom the \ case), “ I should direct laudanum to allay the I irritation, and diminish the dose. In some ► cases the chiinge suddenly produced in the I patient’s habits has brought on considerable ( lassitude and debility, which, however, were of I short duration. In a majority of cases no f other effect has been perceptible than slight I nausea, some diarrhoea, and a gradual but very I uniform distaste to the menstruum.” >1 Dr. W. Marcet has clearly described the I more or less disordered state of the brain, nerves, muscles, and stomach, brought on by the continual use of alcohol, even without in- ■ toxication being produced. The symptoms of ' this state, which he terms ‘ cheonic alco- holism,’ are quite distinct from those of 1)ELIEIU3I TEEMENS, which is an acute and violent disturbance of the nervous system. From experiments on a large number of pa- tients, Dr. Marcet has arrived at the important conclusion, that oxide of zinc is the true anti- dote in cases of slow alcoholic poisoning. It seems to act as a strong tonic on the nerves, being at the same time a powerful sedative and antispasmodic.^ The symptoms of actual intoxication, or the disordered condition of the intellectual functions and volition, produced by taking excessive quantities of alcoholic liquors, need not be described. Among the remedies employed to remove the *fit of drunkenness,’ the preparations of ammonia, and the vegetable acids, are the most common and important. About 2 or 3 fl. dr. 1 “ On Chrome AlcohdUc Intoxicntlon” fly W. Marcet, M.D., 1862. of aromatic spirits of ammonia (spirits of sal volatile), or a like quantity of solution of acetate of ammonia (‘mindererus spirit’), mixed with a wine-glassful of water, will in general neutralize or greatly lessen the action of in- toxicating liquors. In some cases these fluids produce vomiting, which is, however, a good symptom, as nothing tends to restore an ine- briated person so soon as the removal of the liquor from the stomach. Hence tickling the fauces with the Anger or a feather, until sick- ness comes on, is a method very commonly adopted by drunkards to restore themselves to a sober state. The use of aromatic water of ammonia was first suggested by Mr. Bromley. With a like intention, some persons have recourse to soda-water, which acts by the free carbonic acid it contains, and also as a diluent and, from its coldness, as a tonic on the coats of the stomach. The carbonates and bicarbon- ates of soda and potassa are also favourite reme- dies with habitual drunkards. Among the vegetable acids, acetic acid is the one that appears to possess the greatest power of re- moving intoxication; and after this follow the j citric, tartaric, malic, and carbonic acids. These substances are commonly taken by sol- I diers before going to parade. The usual dose j of vinegar is a small teacupful. In the West I Indies lime juice and lemon juice are had re- ' course to. Both these juices act from the citric acid they contain. The use of bitter almonds, as a means of lessening or retarding the effects of fermented liquors, was known to antiquity, and is still common among heavy drinkers at the present day. Even small doses of medicinal prussic acid have been foolishly taken with a like intention. See Abstinence, Delieium Teemens, &c. INTEEMIT'TENT FEVER. Syn. Ague. In pathology, a disease consisting of paroxysms or periods of fever, with perfect intermissions or periods v.’ifchout fever. Marsh miasmata, or the effluvia arising from stagnant water or marshy ground, when acted upon by heat, are the most frequent causes of this malady. For the prevention of ague in situations where it prevails endemically, small doses of quinine should be taken two or three times a day, and flannel clothing should be constantly worn. Symp. Each febrile paroxysm is of three periods or stages—the cold,' the hot, and the sweating stage, and these occur in regular suc- cession. The cold stage commences with great languor and aversion to motion; a sense of coldness down the back soon follows; then the extremities become cold, the fingers shrunken, and the nails blue; the skin assumes that peculiar condition which is commonly known as ‘ goose-skin’ (cutis anseeina) ; the patient shivers, his teeth chatter, and he is glad to draw close to the fire or envelope himself in blankets. After this stats of things has con- tinued for a greater or less time, the heat of I the surface begins to return, the patient has