DECOCTION. 502 Long boiling is in no case necessary, and should be avoided, especially in decoctions prepared from aromatic vegetables, or those abounding in extractive. The Colleges, in such cases, direct the ingredients “to be boiled for a short timej” or “for 10 minutesor they limit the period of the ebullition by stating the quantity that must be volatilized, as—“boil to a pint, and strain."” The last method is generally employed for those substances that do not suffer by lengthened boiling. In preparing compound decoctions, those ingredients should be boiled first which least readily give up their active principles to the menstruum, and those which most readily part with them should be added afterwards. In many cases it is proper simply to infuse the more aromatic substances in the hot decoction of the other ingredients, by which means their volatile principles will be the better preserved. Distilled water, or perfectly clean rain water, should alone be used for decoctions, extracts, and infusions. Spring and river water, from containing lime, have much less solvent power. The aqueous solutions of organic matter, from the nature of their constituents, rapidly ferment, or putrefy, at the ordinary tem- perature of the atmosphere. Neither decoctions nor infusions are fit to be used in dispensing, unless made the same day. They should, con- sequently, be only prepared in small quantities at a time, and any unconsumed portion should be rejected, as it would be imprudent for the dispenser to risk his own reputation, and the welfare of the patient, by employing an article of dubious quality. It has of late years become a general prac- tice for the wholesale houses to vend prepa- rations under the name of ‘ Concentrated De- coctions’ which, with the exception of the compound decoction of aloes, are stated to be of 8 times the pharmacopceial strength; so that one drachm of these liquids added to seven drachms of water, forms extemporaneous decoctions, professedly resembling those of the pharmacopoeia. The decoction of aloes is made of only four times the usual strength, as the nature of its composition v/ould not permit of further concentration. Such pre- parations are, however, very imperfect sub- stitutes for the freshly made decoctions. The extreme difficulty of forming concentrated solutions of vegetable matter with bulky ingredients, too often leads to the omission of a portion of the materials, or to the practice of concentrating the liquid by long evaporation. In the first case, the strength is, of course, less than it should be; and in the second, the quality is injured, and perhaps the preparation is rendered nearly inert by the lengthened exposure to heat, and the consequent volatili- zation or decomposition of its active con- stituents. The common practice of adding a considerable portion of spirit to these prepa- rations, which is absolutely necessary to pre- serve them, is also objectionable, as, in many of the cases in which decoctions are prescribed, this article, even in small quantities, exerts a prejudicial action. Some concentrated decoc- tions have been recently offered for sale which do not contain alcohol, being preserved by the addition of sulphurous acid, or sulphite of lime. A sample of one of these, which we lately examined, we found to be perfectly worthless. It possessed a strong odour of bark, but it contained barely a trace of alkaloid. See Infusion, Essence, Liquoe, &c. Decoction of AToes. Syn. Compound d. of A., Balsam of life; Baume de vie, Fr.; Decoctum al'oes (Ph. E.), D. a. composT- tum (Ph. L. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L.) Extract of liquorice, 7 dr.; extract of aloes, powdered, myrrh, and saffron, of each, 1| dr.; carbonate of potassa, 1 dr.; water, pint; boil to a pint, strain, and add, compound tinc- ture of cardamoms, 7 fl. oz. 2. (Ph. E.) Aloes, myrrh, and saffron, of each, 1 dr.; extract of liquorice, ^ oz.; car- bonate of jjotassa, 40 gr.; water, 16 fl. oz.; boil to 12 11.oz.; strain, and add of compound tincture of cardamoms, 4 fl. oz. 3. (Ph. D.) As No. 1 (nearly), but using hepatic aloes. A warm cathartic. Dose. 1 to 2 oz.; in habitual costiveness, dyspepsia, jaundice, &c. Obs. By boiling the saffron as ordered by the Colleges, nearly the whole of its fragrance is dissipated. A better plan is to macerate it in the tincture for a few days, previously to adding the latter to the docoction of the other ingredients. After the tincture has been strained off from the saffron, the latter may be washed with a little water, to remove any adhering colour and odour, and this may be added to the decoction. The addition of the tincture produces a deposit of mucila- ginous and feculent matter, which has been dissolved out of the liquorice, for which reason some houses omit the latter altogether, and supply its place with an equal quantity of sugar or treacle, and a little colouring. By this method the liquid, after being once ob- tained clear, will continue so for any length of time. The full quantity of saffron ordered by the College is seldom used in making this preparation, and, not unfrequently, it is wholly omitted. 4. (Wholesale.) Solazzi Juice, lb.; kali (carbonate of potassa), 4 oz.; hepatic aloes, 5 j oz.; myrrh (small), 5 oz. ; water, 4| gall.; boil to 3 gall., strain through flannel, cool, and add, of compound tincture of cardamoms, 10 pints; previously digested for 10 days on saffron, 2|- oz.; mix well, and add, essential 011 of nutmeg, 15 drops; oils of cassia and cara- way, of each, 10 drojis; and oils of cloves and pimento, of each, 5 drops; in a week decant the clear portion from the sediment, and pre- serve it in a cool place. 5. (Concentrated; D. A. concentea'tum, L.)—a. Lump sugar, 8 oz.; colouring, \ pint; carbonate of potash, 2 oz.; aloes, 3^ oz,;