23 ACETIMETKY. cient water to fill the 100 divisions of any sim- ple form of ‘acidimeter’ (see engr^ ; when the quantity of the solution, and consequently, of the salt consumed, may be at once read off from the graduated portion of the tube. SHI/ greater accuracy may be obtained by dissolving the bicarbonate in exactly 1000 gr. of distilled water contained in a ‘ Schuster’s alkalimeter,’ (see engr.), previously very carefully weighed ; in which caseeacA grain of the test-solution will indicate of a gr. acetic acid; whilst every ten grains will be equal to 1 gr., or 1^. In rough or hasty experiments, the bicarbonate, in fine powder, may be added to the sample under examination from a weighed phial. The loss of weight, from the operation, gives the quantity consumed, and the per-centage strength, as before. This plan is very conve- nient to travellers and men of business. If absolute accuracy be required, the chemi- cally pure bicarbonate should be employed, and only 197 gr. should be taken -, the quantity of water (100 meas., or 1000 gr.) remaining the same as before. An acetimeter of more delicate con- struction (see engr.) may also be used for the test-liquor. 2. (Brande.) A small piece of white marble, clean and dry, is ac- curately weighed, and then suspended by a silk thread in a weighed sample (say 100 or 1000 gr.) of the vinegar or acid under examination; the action being promoted by occasionally stirring the liquid with a glass rod, until the whole oi the acid is saturated, as shown by no further action on the marble being observable on close inspection. The marble is then withdrawn, washed in dis- tilled water, dried, and weighed. The loss in weight which it has sustained will be equal to the acetic acid present (nearly) ; or strictly, as 50 {marble) to 51 {anhydr. acet. acid). The ov\yprecautions required are—to avoid striking the piece of marble with the rod whilst stirring the solution, or causing loss of substance in it after its withdrawal; and to allow ample time for the action of the acid on it. If the sample consists of strong acid, it should be di- luted with twice or thrice its weight of water, before suspending the marble in it. 3. (lire.) A sample (as above), weighing exactly 100 gr., is very slightly reddened with neutral (blue) tincture of litmus, and liquor of ammonia (ammonia water), of the sp. gr. 0-992, is carefully added (from an acetimeter holding 1000 water-gr. measure, divided into 100 di- visions) until precise neutralisation is effected, indicated by the blue colour of the litmus (J being restored. The number of the acetimeter divisions of the test liquor expended, multiplied by 51, or 60, and the first two right-handfigures of the product cut off as decimals, gives a number which represents respectively the exact quantity of dry and of hydrated acetic acid in the sample. In practice, it is found more con- venient to keep the ammonia water ready tinged with litmus; in which case it is added to the acid until it ceases to change colour, from blue to red. If care be taken to have the ammonia water of the proper sp. gr., this method gives very accurate results, and is easily applied. 4. Instead of bicarbonate of potassa, di- rected above, 104 gr. of dry carbonate of soda, or 281 gr. of the crystallised salt, or 135 gr. of dry carbonate of potassa, may be employed to make the test-solution, the usual precautions as to their purity being observed. II. From the Specific Gravity of the liquid after it has been neutralised with Hydrate of lime:— Revenue system. Common hydrate of lime (fresh-slaked lime), in powder, is added gradu- ally to the sample under examination, until it is saturated, when the sp. gr. of the resulting clear solution of acetate of lime is taken by the acetimeter of the Messrs. J. & P. Taylor. This instrument resembles the common hy- drometer in form, and is so adjusted and gradu- ated as to float at the mark on the stem called ‘ proof,’ in a solution containing 5g of real acetic acid (No. 24 vinegar), 100 gr. of which are saturated by 14^ gr. of crystallised carbonate of soda. For vinegars stronger than proof small weights are provided, each of which in- dicates an additional 5§ up to 35g, the greatest strength at which the duty is levied by the gallon. To ascertain the per-centage of real acid, 5§ must therefore be added to the ace- timeter number. Thus, without being loaded, the instrument, on floating.to the ‘ proof mark,’ indicates a vinegar of 5^; with one weight, a vinegar of 10^; with two weights, 15§, &c.: the starting-point, or ‘ proof,’ being an acid of 5g. According to this system of notation, which is now generally adopted in trade, each 5§ is called a vinegar. An acid of lOg is said to contain two vinegars; one of 15g, three vinegars, &c. It is also common to speak of the degrees of the acetimeter as proof or over- proof. Thus: No. 24 vinegar is said to be proof; one of 5 acetimeter degrees—5 over- proof; one of 10 degrees—10 o. p., &c. For malt and wine vinegars, which contain gluten and mucilage, this method is not strictly ac- curate, as a portion of these substances escape precipitation by the lime, and consequently alter the specific gravity. A small weight (marked ‘ M’) is therefore supplied by Mr. Bate with the acetimeters made by him for trying such vinegars. III. From the Specific gravity :— The sp. gr. of the sample (carefully deter- mined by any of the usual methods) is sought