COPAIBIC ACID—COPPER. 479 I Prop. Less powerful than miscible copaiba, hut it sits better on the stomach, and is about [four times as strong as specific solution of co- '■oaiba. See Solution. I Kes'in of Copaiba. Syn. Copai'b^ eesi'na, L. The residuum of the process of distilling \the oil of copaiba from the balsam. It consists iprincipally of copaibic acid. It has been re- Icommended for gonorrhoea, but is nearly inert, jeven in ^ oz. or | oz. doses. See Oil. i Salt of Copaiba. Syn. Sal copai'bje, L. [There are two preparations sold under this name; the one, crude copaibic acid ; the other, copaibate of an alkali. Neither of them pos- sesses the valuable properties of copaiba, which reside almost entirely in its essential oil. We have taken the ‘sal copaibce* and have watched its action on others, but have not been able to perceive any good effects to result from its administration. COPAI'BIC ACID. Syn. CapivTc acid. Yellow eesin op copaiba. Prepared by di- gesting resin of copaiba in alcohol, and evapo- rating the solution. It may be purified by redissolving it in alcohol. It forms about 50§ of the balsam. Prop., ^e. An amber-coloured, brittle, semi- crystalline, resinous substance, soluble in alco- hol, rectified spirit, ether, and oils, reddens litmus paper, and forms salts with the bases, called COPAIBATES. The insoluble copaibates, as those of silver, iron, lead, lime, &c., may be made by dropping into a solution of the acid in alcohol an alcoholic solution of a salt of the base, followed by the addition of a little liquor of ammonia, when the salts subside as a semi- crystalline powder. Copaibate of potassa (sal copaiba3), of soda, and of ammonia, are easily prepared, by neutralizing an alcoholic solution \of Me with the pure alkali, and carefully (evaporating the solution. The first two are soluble in water, and alcohol; the last is in- soluble in water, but soluble in both alcohol and ether. Copaibate of magnesia is made by jadding copaibate of potassa to a solution of fpsom salts. All these salts are easily decom- posed by acids. CO'PAL. Sy7i. Copal', Gum copal. A re- sinous substance, which exudes spontaneously from various trees belonging to the genera Hymencea, Guibourtia, and Trachylobium. The varieties commonly met with in commerce are East Indian copal, or anime, which is the produce of Hymencea Courbaril, and West In- IDIAN COPAL, obtained from numerous species. I Prop. When of good quality, it is too hard Ito be scratched by the nail, has a conchoidal {fracture, and a sp. gr. ranging from 1*059 to L*072. Unlike other resins, it is dissolved with lifficulty by alcohol and essential oils; and this property, combined with its extreme hard- ness, renders it very valuable for making var- nishes. See Vaenish. COP'PER. Syn. Cu"peum, .<Es Cy"peium, Ye'nus, L.; CuiVEE, Fr.; Kupeee, Ger. A metal of great value in the arts, which has been in use from the earliest times. The an- cients obtained it from various localities, amongst which was the island of Cyprus. In the Roman market the Cyprus copper was long known as Ms Cyprium; but the adjective eventually became corrupted into the substan- tive cuprum, which replaced the original name CBS. Sources. Metallic copper (native coppee) is found in many parts of the globe, diffused in isolated particles in the form of thin laminae, in loose grains intermixed with quartz (coppee SAND, COPPEE baeil'la), in dendritic pieces, and in solid blocks, occasionally of many tons weight. The richest deposits of native copper are those of Lake Superior, in North America. More frequently and more abundantly it occurs as an ore, combined with oxygen (eed oxide, BLACK oxide), with carbonic acid (geeen CAEBONATE OF COPPEE or MAL'ACHITE, BLUE CAEBONATE OP c.), with sulphur and iron (VITEEOUS SULPHUEET OF COPPEE, PUEPLE COPPEE, COPPEE PTEI'TES, Or YELLOW COPPEE oee), with sulphur, antimony, or arsenic, and other metals (teue geay coppee oee or FAH'LEEz), as an impure hydrated silicate (cheys'ocolla), and as an impure hydrated oxychloride (atac'amite). The most abun- dant and important ore is copper pyrites. It is principally obtained from the mines of Corn- wall, Devonshire, and Cuba. The carbonates of copper are now largely imported from Australia; the metal produced by smelting them is generally of the best quality. Prep. We will not attempt to give a minute description of the various complex processes by which the reduction of copper from its ores is effected, but will merely give an outline of the common or Welsh process. This process includes six distinct operations, as follows :— 1. The ore (copper and iron pyrites), containing from 8 to lOg of copper, is roasted in a rever- beratory furnace, called a ‘ calciner,' by which much of the sulphuret of iron is converted into oxide. 2. The calcined ore is melted with ‘n^etal slag' (a product of a subsequent ope- ration—No. 3), in a melting furnace called the ‘ore furnace.' 'The products are a regulus,termed ‘coarse metal' containing about 35g of copper, and ‘ orefurnace slag,' which is thrown away. Much of the iron, and the whole of the so-called earthy matter of the ore, are thus separated, as slag. 3. The coarse metal, having been granulated by causing it to flow from the fur- nace into water, is calcined with free access of air in a calciner, and a considerable amount of sulphur is expelled. 4. The calcined, granu- lated, coarse metal is melted, with the addition of matters rich in oxides of copper, namely, * roaster' and ‘ refinei'y slags' (from the two re- maining operations. Nos. 5 and 6, respectively), and native carbonates of copper, or ores con- taining oxide of copper. The products are a regulus, termed ‘ metal,' which contains about 75H of copper, and metat-slag {see No. 2). The metal should be in the state of ‘ white metal,'