290 BEDEGUAR—BEE. Ro-mans were the first who \\&^d feathers to re- pose on. was used in England, even in the royal chambers, until the close o^ the 15th cen*;ury; and among the middle classes, to a much later period. [On the connection of BEDS and beddijjg with comfort and health, see Cotton, Damp, Feathers, Linen, Sleep, Ventilation, Vermin, &c. ; also belov).'] Air Bed. Beds-, pHloics, cushions, 8fC., when properly constructed and inflated with air, are clean, luxurious, and healthy substitutes for those in common use. For this purpose the ‘ air-proof part ’ should he formed of sepa- rate cells or tubes, arranged in ridges (see 1. engr,), or in any similar manner to admit of free ventilation; and in the case of beds, or of cushions for the sick, two or three folds of flannel cr blanket, or of any loose porous fabric, should be placed between them and the ‘ under sheet,’ or the person of the sleeper or patient. Without this precaution, dis- comfort and restlessness, excessive warmth and perspiration, and even bed-sores, are apt to follow their use by invalids, when badly constructed. To obviate these objections to articles of this class commonly sold, a new one has been produced under the name of the ‘INCOM'PARABLE BED’ (Aycboum’s Patent), which is thoroughly applicable to all purposes —domestic, medical, naval, or-military—and superior to any feather, flock, or spring bed, however good or carefully made up. This bed consists of an ‘ outer case ’ made of ordinary bed-ticking divided intern-ally into numerous separate cells, into each of which is placed a suitably-constructed bag, which may be either 3. wholly or partially filled with air or water ,• the latter, either hot or cold. (See enyr. 2, 3.) It is incapable of bursting, and is very agree- i able to lie on. It retains its shape, saves the time, trouble, and ‘ wear and tear ’ ordinarily bestowed or produced by servants in daily • ‘ tossing about ‘ one of down or feathers, is easily washed and kept clean, allows all the ventilation essential to health, and is so portable that it may be easily packed in a carpet-bag. In almost an instant it may be ' converted into six, or more, separate life-pre- servers ; and what is equally important, it will stand any climate. Hitherto the use air-beds and water-beds has been almost exclusively con- fined to the upper and wealthy classes, and to hospital-practice; but the moderate prices* at which Aycbourn’s beds, cushions, &c., are sold, i place these luxuries, and in many cases—abso- lute necessities—within the reach of the masses of the people. Water Bed. Water-beds, cushions, Sfc., are chiefly employed for patients labouring under bed-sores, paralysis, spinal affections, &c., or who are the subjects of active surgical treat- ment in which equable support for the body or a limb is absolutely necessary. Their co«- struclion and use are similar to those pre- viously noticed, except that, instead of being' inflated with air, they are filled with water, either warm or tepid. For the bedridden, and for long-continued use generally, they are much inferior to air-beds.2 See Air B'EH {above). Bed. t^yn. Stra'tum, L. ; Steate, &c., Fr.; Schicht, &c., Ger. In geology, a mineral layer, seam, or stratum, thick or thin. Bed. In horticulture, a small ‘ plot ’ of land, usually raised a little above the general surface, in which flowers, or other plants, are raised or grown. BED'EGUAR (-e-gahr). Syn. Bedeguar' (or -GAR), Fr. Sweet-briar sponge (which see).' BEE (be). Syn. Hive-bee, HoN'ET-B.i (hull'-), Domes'ticb. ; A'pis, L.; Abeille, A. mellifique, &c., Fr.; Biene, Honigbiene, &c., Ger. The a'pis mellif'ica (Linn.; Ph. L., E., & D.), one of the ‘ hymenop'tera ’ best' known and most useful to man. Hist. The bee has been known and admired in all ages of the ivorld, on account of its industry, policy, and. curious economy. It has alike furnished a study for the naturalist and a theme for the poet; and, from its lowly dwelling, philosophy has received the most exalted lessons of prudence and wisdom Eumelus, of Corinth, wu’ote a poem on bees (b.c. 741). In later times Huber and other.' have observed and described their maiwellous habits and existence. The true honey-bee was originally limited! in its geographical range, to the Old worldjj whence it has extended to America and otheij I Tliese are less than those of * feather-beds’ of corre-i spondiiig dimensions. ^ Mi-. Hooper, of 7, Pallmall East, is a -well-known anc successful nianufacUirer of water-bsds and water-cushlom lor the use of the sitk.