IRON. 795 as superior to every other preparation of iron j for internal use, as being at once miscible with I the lactic acid of the gastric juice, instead of having to be converted into a lactate at the expense of that fluid, as it is asserted is the case with the other preparations of iron. Dose. 2 to 6 gr., frequently, in any form most convenient. Lev'igated Iron. Syn. Iron in powder ; Ferrdm divisum, F. pulveratum, Ferri LIMATURA LAEVIGATA, L. Prep. (P. Cod.) Prepared iron filings ground with a muller and porphyry slab, in the dry state, until reduced to an impalpable powder, which is to he preserved from the air in well-stopped bottles. Obs. It is very difficult to prevent the I oxidation of iron filings, and still more so of levigated iron. Even enclosing them in stop- pered bottles, perfectly fitted, is not sufficient. M. Righini has found that, when reduced to I powder and mixed with an equal quantity of well dried sugar, the mixture is *of a lead colour, and may be kept even in paper, without its suffering oxidation, provided it is preserved from moisture. Levigated iron filings is an excellent substitute for Quevenne’s iron (which see), and is infinitely superior to nearly all that is sold under that name in the shops. Dose. 5 to 25 gr., made into ^n electuary with honey or treacle, either alone or com- bined, according to the indications. See Iron PILINGS. Magne'sio-cit'rate of Iron. Syn. Citrate OF IRON AND MAGNESIA; FeRRI MAGNESIO- ciTRAS, Ferri et magnesia citras, L. Prep. As ammonio-citrate of iron, but using hydrated carbonate of magnesia instead of ammonia to neutralize the solution. Dose. 2 to 10 gr. It has been recommended as a cha- lybeate in the dyspepsia of gouty and debili- tated habits. Ma'late of Iron (Impure). Syn. Ferri MALAS IMPDRUS, L. Prep. (P. Cod., 1839.) Porphyrized iron filings, 1 part; juice of sour apples, 8 parts; digest for 3 days in an iron vessel, evaporate to one half, strain through linen whilst hot, further evaporate to the con- sistence of an extract, and preserve it from the { air. Dose. 5 to 20 gr., where the use of iron is indicated. Mu"riate of Iron. See Chlorides op Iron. Ni'trates of Iron. Nitric acid forms with iron two well-defined compounds:— I 1. Protoni'trate of Iron. Syn. Ferrods j NITRATE, Nitrate op protoxide of iron; I Ferri nitras, L. By dissolving protosul- j phuret of iron in dilute nitric acid, in the cold, I and evaporating the solution in vacuo. Small I green crystals, very soluble, and prone to oxi- I dation. ! 2. Per'nitrate of Iron. Syn. Ferric ni- I TRATE, Nitrate of sesquioxide of iron; I Ferri pernitras, L. By digesting nitric acid j (diluted with about half its weight of water) on iron or sesquioxide of iron. A deep-red liquid, apt to deposit a basic salt. It is used in dyeing, and has been recommended in dys- pepsia, calculous affections, and chronic diar- rhoea. Dose. 5 to 10 or 12 drops. Oxides of Iron. Iron forms at least four compounds with oxygen, namely, the protoxide or ferrous oxide (FeO); the protosesquioxide, black oxide, magnetic oxide, or ferrosoferric oxide (Fe^O^ or FeO, FegOg); the sesquioxide, peroxide, or ferric oxide (FogOg); and the teroxide, or ferric acid (FeOg) :— 1. Protoxide of Iron. Syn. Ferrous oxide; Ferri protoxydum, L. This substance is almost unknown in a separate state, from its extreme proneness to absorb oxygen and pass into the sesquioxide. It may be precipitated from solutions of the protosalts of . iron, as a white hydrate (ferrous hydrate) by the jowre alkalis, and as a white carbonate (protocar- bonate OF iron) by the alkaline carbonates. Both compounds rapidly absorb oxygen, and turn, first green, and then red, by exposure to the air. Protoxide of iron is a very powerful base, neutralizing the adds and forming stable salts (protosalts), which, when soluble, have commonly a pale green colour, and a nauseous metallic taste. See Carbonate of Iron. 2. Proto-sesquiox ide of Iron. Syn. Fer- ROSO-FERRIC OXIDE, BlACK O. OF I, MAGNETIC o. OF I., Martial Ethiops* ; Ferri oxydum NIGRUM (Ph. E.), F. O. MAGNETICUM (Ph. D.), Oxydum ferroso-ferricum, ^thiops mar- TiALis*, L. This occurs native, but that used in medicine is prepared artificially. 1. Anhydrous.—«. (Ph. D. 1826.) From the black scales of iron (ferri oxydi squama) that fall around the smith’s anvil, by washing, drying, detaching them from impurities by means of a magnet, and then treating them by grinding and elutriation, as directed for pre- pared chalk. The product of this process is inferior as a medicine to the hydrate obtained as below, being less easily soluble in the juices of the stomach. b. By exposing fine iron wire to the action of steam at a high temperature. 2. Hydrated.—a. (Ph. E.) Sulphate of iron, 6 oz.; oil of vitriol, 160 minims; nitric acid, 4 fl. dr.; stronger liquor of ammonia, 4^ fl. oz.; boiling water, 3 pints; dissolve half of the sulphate in half of the water, add the oil of vitriol, boil, add the nitric acid gradually, boiling after each addition for a few minutes; dissolve the remaining half of the sulphate of iron in the rest of the boiling water; mix the two solutions, add the ammonia, stirring well (and boil for a short time); collect the preci- pitate on a calico filter, wash it with water until it ceases to affect a solution of nitrate of baryta, and dry at a heat not exceeding 180° Fahr. The formulae of Gregoryand Dr. Jephson are similar. b. (Ph. D.) Sulphate of iron, 8 oz., dissolved in a mixture of water, 10 fl. oz., and stdjjhuric acid, 6 fl. dr., is converted into sesquisulphate by means of nilric acid, 4 fl. dr., diluted with