HEADING—HELLEBORE. 727 form should consist in restoring the healthy action of the stomach, by the administration of aperients, and by the use of proper food, and exercise; or when that viscus is over- loaded with undigested food, by the exhibition of an emetic. For this purpose i to an oz. of ipecacuanha wine may be taken in a cupful of warm water, which will generally relieve the stomach, especially if its action is assisted by drinking copiously of warm water. Head- ache is a common accompaniment of indiges- tion and stomach disease, and in general it will be found that whatever will remove the one will also cure the other. Nervous head- aches are relieved by nervous tonics and sti- mulants, as bark, cascarilla, calumba, gentian, camphor, ammonia, ether, and ivine, the latter in a state of considerable dilution. A cup of strong coffee or strong green tea often acts like a charm in removing this species of headache. Small doses of tincture of henbanehecvG, also often a like effect. 20 or 30 drops of laudanum, or, preferably, half that number of liquor opii sedaiivus, may be taken with advantage as an anodyne, and to induce sleep. Amongst po- pular REMEDIES may be mentioned ^ nasal stimulants,’ as snuff (cephalic), smelling salts, and aromatic vinegar, the use of which is fa- miliar to every one; and local applications, as very cold water, ether, vinegar, strong spirits, Cologne water, &c., all of which are rubbed over the part of the head affected, with the fingers, or a linen rag dipped in them is laid thereon instead. Pressure on the head has also been used with advantage. Silence, dark- ness, and repose, are powerful remedies, alike suitable to every variety of headache j and change of air, scene, and occupation, are especially bene- ficial to those resulting from excessive mental anxiety or exertion. Blisters are sometimes applied behind the ears in cases of violent headache. Headache is often symptomatic of other dis- eases, especially those of the inflammatory and nervous kind, rheumatism, &c. In all these the primary disease should be sought out and attempted to be cured. In many cases these attacks rapidly yield to a feu’- doses of compound decoction of sarsaparilla containing a little iodide of potassium. Headache in preg- nancy may generally be removed by proper attention to the bowels; observing to assist their action, should they require it, by the use of some mild aperient, as castor oil, lenitive electuary, seidlitzpowders, &c. When the con- stitution is very robust, blood may be taken. Headache in bed may frequently be relieved by washing the head with cold water, and dis- continuing the use of a nightcap, at the same time preserving the feet warm by wearing worsted socks or stockings. HEADING, Syn. Beer heading, Cauli- ELOWER H. Prep. 1. Alum and green cop- peras, equal parts, both in fine powder. 2. Alum, copperas, and common salt, equal parts, Used by brewers to make their beer keep its head or froth. HEALTH. That state of the living body in which all its functions are duly performed. See Hygiene. HEARING. See Deafness, Ear, &c. HEART'BURN. Syn. Cardialgia, L. Anxiety and pain about the region of the stomach, generally attended by a sense of gnawing and heat; hence its name. Faintness, nausea, and eructation of a thin, acidulous, watery liquid, especially in the morning, are common symptoms of this complaint. The usual causes of heartburn are excess in eating or drinking, the use of improper food, and sedentary habits. A good remedy is a tea- spoonful of carbonate of magnesia, or carbonate of soda, in a glass of peppermint or cinnamon water, to which a little powdered ginger may be added with advantage. This dose may be taken 2 or 3 times daily until the disease is removed. Articles of food that easily undergo fermentation should at the same time be avoided, and a dry diet had recourse to as much as possible. Soda water, toast-and-water, and weak spirit-and-water, are the most suit- able beverages in this complaint. HEAT. Syn. Caloric; Caloricum, L. The consideration of this subject belongs to physics and chemistry. Much useful informa- tion, in connection with it, will, however, be found in this work, under the heads EbuL" LiTioN, Evaporation, Expansion, Refrige- ration, &c. HEAVY SPAR. Native sulphate of baryta. See Baryta. HEC'TIC FEVER. Syn. Febris hectica, L. An ill-defined constitutional febrile affec- tion, more or less of an intermittent character, attended by debility, a small quick pulse, pale- ness, loss of appetite, emaciation, and exces- sive perspiration. It is often symptomatic of some other disease. When it is an idiopathic affection, sarsaparilla, or the lighter bitter tonics, and mild aperients, judiciously admi- nistered, often prove useful; especially when supported with a light and regular diet, regular hours, gentle out-of-door exercise, and warm bathing or the shower bath. . HED'ERIN. Syn. Hederina, L. From the decoction of the ground seeds of ivy {He- dera helix), boiled in water, along with a little slaked lime or magnesia, the precipitate being afterwards digested in rectified spirit, and the filtered tincture evaporated. Febrifuge and sudorific. HEL'ENIN. See Inulin. HELICIN, HELICOID'IN. Two products of little interest resulting, along with anilotic ACID, from the action of dilute nitric acid on salicine. HELIOG'RAPHY. See Photography. HEL'LEBORE. Syn. Black hellebore; Helleborus (Ph. L.), L. “The rhizome and root” of “ Helleborus niger” (Ph. L.) or black hellebore. It is alterative and emmenagogue, in