288 bean—BEARD. The ‘pyrus aria^ or wild pear. Wood, \i?ird, \ compact, and tongli; iised for axle-trees, naves j and cogs of wheels. See. j BEAN (bene). [Sax., Eng.] Syn. Fa'ba, L. ; ; Fevb, Fr.; Bohne, Ger. The general name j of leguminous seeds, as also of the plants which | produce them; appr., fa'ba vulgar'is (Monch.; i vi"ciafaba, Linn.) or common gar'den-bea^t,^ j -phase'olus multrftbr'us (VVilkh) or scarlet- | runn'ek,^ and pb. vulgaris (Sav.), Fre^tch | BEAX, kid'xey-b., 01* harTcot (-ho),^ with ^ their varieties, all of which are annuals culti-1 vated in our gardens—the first, chieily for its j ‘ seeds’—the others, both for their " green ' pods’ and ‘ ripe seed.’ The name is also often ])opularly applied, as an appellative, to the fruit or "seeds of other plants which, in size, and appearance, resemble common beans, as , noticed below. Hist., S^-c. Beans were known to the ancients, | who used them for various purposes besides j that of food. The choicer varieties of our i culinary beans were introduced into these j countries during the reign of Henry A^III. Those principally cultivated in our gardens are ' the SMALL Lis'box, Saxd'wich, Spax'ish, ; Tokay', Wind'sor, and Maz'agax (from | north Africa), with almost innumerable sub- | varieties of each. The exquisite perfume of j ‘ beans’ in blossom is referred to by the poet Tliomson:— “.Yrabia cannot boast'a swcetei’gale.” Preparations including their ‘ fragrant prin- ciple’ are highly prized in modern perfumery. Qual., &;c. The ‘pods’ eaten in the green state, properly dressed, are regarded as anti- scorhutic and wholesome; but are apt to pro- duce llatulence, unless combined with spices. In the ‘ dried’ or ‘ripe state’ they are rather difficult of digestion, and very, apt to dis- tend the stomach and intestines with wind. This objection does not exist, to the same extent, to their use in the form of ‘dour’ or ‘meal.’ The amount of nutritious nitro- genous matter in beans rather exceeds that in wheat, and independently of a disposition to produce constipation in some habits, and being rather less easy of digestion, they must be considered nearly as wholesome as that cereal. The London millers and bakers use immense quantities of bean-dour to adulterate their dour and bread. Green beans (pods or legumes) are cooked by simply throwing them into boiling water, and simmering them until quite tender; a ‘ pinch ’ of salt of tartar, or a ‘ little ’ common salt, being usually added to preserve their green colour. Young and small ones take from 12 to 18 minutes—large or older ones, longer. 1 Var. |3., horse'-bean {fa'ha equVna, f. mi'nor, ^c., L.).’ 2 Var. a., phase'olus coccin'eus (red-ilowered):—/3., ph. alhiflor'ns (wliite-flowered). 3 Var. a., ph. unic'olor (seeds of one colour);—/3., ph. fascia'tus (seeds striped) or ze'bra-stripei) bean :—y., ph. variega'tus or SPECK'led bean 5., ph. na'^ins or dwarf'-jbean. The first are merely ‘topped and tailed’ with a knife, before being dressed; the others re- quire also the side ‘ strings’ to he drawn off, , and to be cut obliquely into pieces of a lozenge-form, or else to be split lengthwise into strips, and then divided once across. Old ones never boil tender. Windsor beans, an<l other ‘ shelled beans,’ take 15 to 30 minut'vs according to age. These last are sometimes ‘skinned’ after being dressed. All of them are commonly ‘served up* or eaten, with melted butter. See Leguminos.e, Pulse, &c. (also below). Algaro'ba Bean. See Algaeoba. Earth Bean. American earth-nut. French Bean; Horse-bean ; Kidney-bean ; Sfc. See Beax (ante). St. Igna'tius’s Bean. The poisonous seed of the fruit of Igna'tia amdr'a (Linn.; strych'nos Igna'tii, Berg.), a tree indigenous to the Phi- lippine Islands.—Prop., uses, Sfc. Similar to those of nux vomica. Contains strychnia (which see). BEAR (bare). Syn. Ur'sus, L. ; OuRS, Fr.; Bar, Ger.; Bera, Sax. In zoology, a Cuvierian genus of the ‘ plantigi’ade carnivora,’ of several species, foiind both in the Old and New World. Those generally known under the name are omnivorous or frugivorous. The skin of the ‘ American black-hear’ {iirsus America'nus, Pallas) was formerly highly prized, and fetched an extravagant price. : The ‘brown bear’ (^<. arc'tos, Linn.) supplies ! the Kamschatkans, and some other northern ' races, with many of the necessaries, and even I the comforts of life. The fat or grease j (bear’s GREASE; Ad'eRS UR'SI, L.) of all the ! common species has long been highly esteemed i for promoting the growth of the human hair; j but apparently without sufficient reason. The mass of that sold under the name in England is simply hog's lard or veal-fat, or a mixture of them, variously scented and slightly coloured, j The quantity annually consumed in Great j Britain, and exported, is estimated at many tons; being a larger quantity than all the i bears at present procurable in Europe would supply, if slaughtered and stripped of their fat. BEAR'BERRY, Bear’s Bil'berry, &c. See UvA Uesi. BEAR’S GREASE. See Bear {above). Hair Cosmetics, Marrow, Pommades, &c. BEARD (beerd). [Sax., Eng.] Syn. Bar'ba, L.; Barbe, Fr.; Bart, Ger., Dan.; Baaed, Dut. The hair of the lips and chin; but appr., only the last—that on each lip being distin- guished, in toilet-nomenclature, by a separate name. In popular botany and zoology, any beard-like appendage; the ‘awn’ of corn or grass; the ‘gills’ or breathing organs of oysters and other bivalves; &c. A historical notice of beards would carry us back to times long antecedent to the com- mencement of written history, and would em- brace the whole archaeology of the human race. Even difference of opinions as to their