1110 PORT-FIRE—POTASSA. For further information connected with this subject, see Alcoholometey, Ale, Beee, Beewing, Malt Liqloes, &c. PORT-FIRE. A paper tube, from 9 to 12 inches in length, filled with a slow burning composition of meal powder, nitre, and sulphur, rammed moderately hard, by a similar process to that adopted for small rockets. It is used in lieu of a touch-inatch, to fire guns, mortars, pyrotechnical devices, &c. PORTLAND CEIdENT. A species of mortar formed by calcining a mixture of limestone and argitldceous earth, and grinding the calcined mass to powder, in which state it must be pre- served from the air. It is characterised ,by absorbing a large quantity of water, and then rapidly becoming solid, and, after a time, ac- quiring considerable hardness. See Moetae and Cement. POSOL'OGY. See Dose. POS'SET. Syn. Possetum, L. Milk curdled with wine or any other slightly acidulous liquor. It is usually sweetened with either sugar or treacle, and is taken hot. Prep. From new milk, ^ pint; sherry or marsala, 1 wine-glassful; treacle, 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls, or q. s.; heat them together in a clean saucepan until the milk coagulates. This is called ‘teeacle posset," or ‘molasses POSSET," and, taken on retiring to rest, is highly esteemed in some parts of the country as a domestic remedy for colds. Lemon juice, strong old ale, or even vinegar, is occasionally substituted for wine, and powdered ginger or nutmeg added at will. POT'ASH. The ‘ potash," or ‘ potashes," of commerce is an impure carbonate of potassa, so named after the pots or vessels in which it was first made. The ‘ potash," or ‘ potassa," of the chemist, is the hydrate of potassa, or hydrated oxide of potassium, a peculiar metal, which is more particularly referred to below. The word potash is now generally employed in connection with the crude or commercial com- pounds of the alkali; and potassa, in connection with those which are chemically or com- mercially pure, or which are prejiared on the small scale for the purposes of medicine, analysis, &c. See Caebonate op Potassa, &c. POTAS'SA. [Eng., L.] Potash, Oxide OP POTASSIUM, Vegetable alkali!; Potasse, Fr.; Kali, Ger. A compound formed by the union of potassium with oxygen. Strictly, the term is only applicable to the anhydrous body. Prep. 1. (Anhydrous.)—a. By the com- bustion o^potassium in hot dry air. b. By heating the hydrate of potassium with an equivalent weight of metallic potassium in an atmosphere free from oxygen. 2. (Hydrated.) See Hydeate op Potassa (below). Prop. Anhydrous potassa is a hard gray solid, fusible at a red heat, and convertible into vapour at a liigher temperature. It is intensely corrosive, When thrown into water, it seizes an equivalent of that body witl; such violence as to become red hot during th' process. Tests, &^‘c. Potassa and its hydrate and salt, are—colourless, when not associated with coloured metallic oxide or acid;—non-volatile by the strongest heat of a spirit lamp;- soluble in ivater, and, generally, freely so they impart a purple or violet colour to th outer flame of the blowpipe Avhen, supporte on a platinum wore, they are heated in th apex of the inner flame.—A like colour is als imparted to the flame of alcohol when thai substance is ignited with a salt of potass;, previously heated with a very small quantit of water. The presence of soda obscures th last two reactions completely.—Pure p(.\ tassa, as well as its hydrate and carbonaf deliquesce in the air, forming oily liquk which do not solidify by the absorption of ca bonic acid. Solutions of potassa and its salts are tin distinguished:—1. They are unaffected 1 sulphuretted hydrogen, the hydrosulphuret ferrocyanides, and carbonates.—2. A soluth of tartaric acid, added, in excess, to mod rately strong neutral or alkaline solutions ' potassa or its salts, gives a quickly subsidin gritty or crystalline, white precipitate of bita trate of potassa, which is redissolved on heath the liquid, and again separates as it cools; ar is also soluble in aqueous solutions containir free alkali, or free mineral acids.—3. I chloride of platinum produces, in neutral ai acid solutions, a yellow crystalline precipitate potassio-chloride of platinum. Alkaline f lutions require to be first slightly acidulati with hydrochloric acid. The separation of t' precipitate here, as well as in No. 2, is pi ; moted by violent agitation and frictiir against the sides of the vessel, and the de cac^r of both is increased by the addition some alcohol. EsHm. See Alkalimetey. Concluding remarks. The compounds potassa are a highly valuable and importa class of bodies, and are applied to an alm( infinite variety of uses in the arts and man factures, and in medicine. It is the in( powerful antiscorbutic known. According Dr. Garrod, the peculiar efficacy of fresh vef tables and fruit in scurvy depends on t potash which they contain. Potatoes, whi meal, and lemon juice, are rich in this substan Fine wheaten flour and rice contain little of i the last, even too little to support life. Unc the form of carbonate, citrate, malate, oxala tartrate, or some similar combination, pota? is universally diffused throughout the ve^ table world, and from tliis kingdom of nati i man obtains, by means at once simple and i| expensive, an unfailing and plentiful supply this substance. Potassa is also found in t mineral kingdom, which, indeed, is the oi original storehouse of it; but its direct t miuation from this source has not, hither