1135 POWDERS. I j Obs. The above powders, made into a paste ith a little water, are used to silver dial- jates, statuettes, and other articles in copper, eviously well cleaned, by friction. The best 'ver powder for the purpose is that precipi- ted from its nitric solution by means of a Ipper plate. When the product of the last I’mula is used, the articles should be after- [irds made red hot, and polished. Powder of Soap. Syn. Sapo contrittjs, jrLVis SAPONis, L. Castile soap, sliced or [t small, dried by exposure to a warm atmo- [liere, or by a very gentle heat, and then iwdered. Used in dispensing; also as a hand, \iving, and tooth powder. As a cosmetic, it (ly be scented at will. Powder of Sponge. Syn. Pulyis spongi^, i SPONGI.E tjsTjE, L. Prep. Let sponge, cut 1,0 small pieces, be beaten so as to free it from : id or stones j then burn it in a covered iron isel, until it becomes black and friable; ally, reduce it to powder. Deobstruent, isff. i to 3 dr.; in glandular indurations and ( argements, &c. It should be of a brownish- 1 ck colour; if over burnt, its efficacy is de- 1oyed. Powder of Squills. Syn. Pulyis scill.e, L. j\°p. Remove the membranous integuments Im the bulb of the squill, cut it into thin s es, and dry it at a heat between 90 and JP Fahr.; next reduce it to powder, and 1 p it in well-stopped bottles, jiternuta'tory Powder. See Snuffs (Medi- c|ed). iltyp'tic Powder. See Astringent Powder, jlfNARD’S P., &C. I’owder of Trag'acanth (Compound). Syn. liLVIS TRAGACANTH^ COMPOSITUS (Ph. L. & ], L. Prep. (Ph. L.) Gum tragacanth, (, 1 acacia, and starch, of each, in fine powder, 1 oz.; powdered white sugar, 3 oz. The Inburgh formula is similar. Demulcent. j?e. \ dr. to 2 dr., in water or any simple 1 lid; in hoarseness and catarrhs, combined ^ h squills and henbane, to allay irritation; i dysentery, combined with ipecacuanha; n,l in gonorrhoea, strangury, &c., combined '|h acetate of potassa or nitre. ^i'olet Powder. Syn. Nursery powder, !• N p. This is simply starch reduced to a V y fine powder, and scented with orris pow- 0 or essence of violets. The best kinds are ) perfumed with a little musk or ambergris, » are now generally made with potato farina. T i commoner sort is only scented with a little e 'nee of bergamot or essence of lemon, ‘ Plain ■'Ilet powder’ is, of course, unscented. ?rep. 1. Powdered starch, 28 lb.; pow- (>ed orris root, 1 lb.; essence of ambergris u. essence of bergamot, of each, | oz. ; oil of rdium, \ dr.; mix, and pass the powder t oagh a sieve. 1. Powdered starch, 14 lb.; essence of ber- 9 lot, i oz.; oil of cloves, i oz.; as last. < d as a dusting powder in excoriations, &c. ^ Cosmetic Powders {below). \ Ward’s Sweating Powder. Resembles Do- ver’s POWDER. Wart Powder. Syn. Corn powder. Cos- metic CAUSTIC, &c. Prep. 1. Ivy leaves ground to powder. A pinch is applied with a rag, the part being first moistened with strong vinegar. Useful for soft corns and warts. 2. (Hunter’s.) From savine and verdigris, equal parts. See Corn Solvent. Warwick’s Powder (Earl of). Syn. Pulyis Comitis Warwicensis, L. Prep. From scam- mony, prepared with the fumes of sulphur, 2 oz.; diaphoretic antimony, 1 oz.; cream of tartar, ^ oz. Dose. 15 to 30 gr. Obs. This is a modification of Cornachini’s POWDER. It is represented in the present Pharmacopceias by compound scammony pow- der. “ Cornachini wrote a whole book about his powder, the proportions of the ingredients of which he varied according to circumstances.” (‘ Med. Lex.’) Washing Powder. The numerous com- pounds vended under this name have for their basis the soda-ash of commerce, blended with common Scotch soda in variable proportions. The best of them consist either wholly or chiefiy of the first of these substances. The alkaline matter is reduced to coarse powder, and stirred up with liquid size, or with a de- coction of linseed, Irish moss, or British gum, and is then dried, and again crushed, or pow- dered, and at once put into the packages, in I which it is rammed tight, and covered up im- j mediately. The object aimed at by the manu« I facturer is to keep his commodity from the air as much as possible, because exposure renders it less caustic, and consequently, less detergent. POWDERS. The following preparations have been placed under this head instead of under ‘ Powder,’ because some are invariably spoken of in the plural number, and the others may be conveniently noticed in classes or groups. Efferves'eing Powders. Prep. 1. (Pul- YERES EFFERYESCENTES—Ph. E.) Take of tartaric acid, 1 oz.; bicarbonate of soda, 1 ! oz. 54 gr. (534 gr.), or bicarbonate of potassa, 1 oz. 2 dr. 40 gr. (640 gr.); reduce the acid and either bicarbonate separately to fine powder, divide each of these into 16 pow- ders, and preserve the acid and alkaline pow- ders in separate papers of difierent colours. 2. (PULVERES EFFERYESCENTES CITRATI — Ph. D.) Take of citric acid (crystallized), 9 dr.; bicarbonate of soda, 11 dr., or bicarbonate of potassa, 13 dr.; proceed as last, dividing each j into 18 parts. I 3. (PULYERES EFFERYESCENTES TARTARI- ZATI—Ph. D.) Take of tartaric acid (in I crystals), 10 dr.; bicarbonate of soda, 11 dr., I or bicarbonate of potassa, 13 dr.; reduce them to powder, and divide them into 18 parts, as before. (See below.) Gin'ger Beer Powders. Syn. Pulyeres