654 FLOUR. bran, even when pressed smooth with the hand, or with a polished surface;—its cohe- siveness is so great, that on being squeezed in the hand, the lump is some time before it loses its shape;—it has a homogeneous appear- ance, and does not lose more than from to 12g by being carefully dried in a stove. The smaller the loss in this way the finer is the quality, other matters being equal, and the more economical in use. (See below.) Tests. 1. Liquor of ammonia turns pure wheat flour yellow ; but if any other corn has been ground with it, pale brown; or if peas or BEANS have been ground with it, a still darker brown. 2. Liquor of potassa, containing about 12§ of caustic alkali, dissolves pure wheat-flour almost completely; but when it is adulterated with the flour of the leguminous seeds (beans, PEAS, &c.), the cellulose of these substances remains undissolved, and its hexagonal tissue is readily identified under the microscope. Mineral substances (chalk, plaster op Paris, BONE DUST, &c.) are also insoluble in this test, and appear as a heavy white sediment. 3. Boiling water poured on the sample causes the evolution of the peculiar odour of PEA or BEAN FLOUR when these substances are present. Bread made with such flour evolves a like odour on being toasted. 4. Pure hydrochloric acid poured on po- tato FLOUR, or on wheat flour adulterated with it, develops a smell of rushes; it also dissolves starch, but changes the colour of pure wheat flour to a deep violet. 5. Nitric acid turns wheat flour of an orange- yellow colour, but forms a stiff and tenacious jelly with potato fecula, the colour of which it does not alter. 6. A portion of the suspected sample sub- mitted to dry distillation in a stoneware retort, and the distillate collected in a receiver con- taining a little water, the latter is found to remain perfectly neutral if the wheat flour is pure, but acquires a distinctly alkaline reaction when BEANS, pulse, or pea meal is present. (Rodrigues.) 7. Triturate 300 gr. of the sample with an equal weight of clean siliceous sand, and after 5 minutes form a homogeneous paste with water ; afterwards further adding more water, until about 2 fl. oz. have been used. The fil- tered liquid, treated with an equal quantity of a strong and pure aqueous solution of iodine, develops a pink colour, which gradually dis- appears, when the specimen examined consists of pure wheat flour j but assumes a deep-purple colour, which disappears much more slowly, if the flour is adulterated with even lOg of fecula or POTATO FLOUR. This test suc- ceeds, not only with flour and meal, but also with macaroni, vermicelli, &c. (M. Cheval- lier.) 8. The milky liquid holding the starch in suspension (see Anal., next page) is poured into a small conical glass, and left at rest for some time; the clear'liquid is then decanted, and any remaining water carefully sucked up with a pipette, and the whole left for some time, in order that the deposit may harden. The upper gray layer is next removed with a teaspoon, and the harder and stiffer second layer left undisturbed until it becomes quite solid by drying. When in this state, it may be upset in the form of a cone, upon a lump of dry plaster. The fecula or potato STARCH (if any is present), being heavier than that of wheat, forms the apex of the cone, and its quantity may be estimated in the fol- lowing manner :—The operator cuts from the apex of the little cone above mentioned a slice, which he triturates only for a short time in an agate mortar (one of glass, or porce- lain, or wedgewood-ware, will not do), and he tests that with aqueous solution of iodine. If it turns blue, it is fecula. Another slice is treated in the same manner, until the operator comes to the wheat starch, which, in the present instance, is not affected by the aqueous solution of iodine. This difference of be- haviour of the two species of starch with iodine is due to the friction of the pestle and mortar, which is sufficient to divide or tear the envelopes of the particles of the potato starch, which then become blue when treated by solution of iodine. The particles of wheat starch, on the contrary, are not disaggregated by that treatment, and being therefore pro- tected by their envelope, are not acted upon by solution of iodine, or, at most, assume only a browm tinge. (M. Robine.) 9. Wheat flour adulterated with plaster OF Paris, ground bones, chalk, and potato FLOUR, has a higher speciftc gravity than a sample of the pure flour. This may be readily ascertained by any person, by filling a small vessel wdth some pure flour, and then with the given sample. “ A vessel which wdll contain 1 lb. of wheat flour will contain 1^ lb. of fecula ” {potato flour), and hence “ the pro- portion of this adulteration may be easily esti- mated.” (Ure.)* 10. If to a sample of wheat flour is added a solution of potassa, containing about If g of the pure alkali, the granules of potato FARINA, or of BEAN MEAL, Or PEA MEAL, present (if any) will acquire 4 or 5 times their original volume, whilst those of the pure wheat starch will be scarcely affected by it. This change is very perceptible under a micro- scope of small power. 2 parts of liquor of potassa (Ph. L.) and 5 parts of distilled water form a mixture that answers for the above purpose. 11. By means of the microscope the ad- mixture of the CHEAPER FECULAS and MEALS with wheat flour is readily detected by the characteristic appearance of the starch grains ; and when the adulteration exceeds 9g or lOjj, its extent may be readily estimated with con- siderable accuracy. As the range of adultera- tion is generally from 12g to 27g, this me-