SOLANINE—SOLUTION. 1214 crease of weight in the second, indicate the ABSOEBENT POWEES of the SOil. 3. The matter from No. 2, freed from siliceous stones by garbling, may be gradually heated to dull redness in a shallow open vessel, avoiding waste from decrepitation, &c. The loss of xoeight, divided by 10, gives the per-cent- age quantity of vegetable or oegaeic mat- tee present (nearly). 4. 'Another 1000 gr. (see No. 1) may be next washed wdth successive portions of cold water as long as anything is removed. The residuum, after being dried, indicates the proportion of SAND and GEAVEL (nearly). 5. Another portion of the soz7 (100, 200, or more gr., according to its character) is tested in the manner described under Caebonate and Alkalimetet. The loss of weight in car- bonic acid indicates the quantity of cae- bonate OF LIME present in the sample exa- mined ; 22 gr. of the former being equal to 50 gr. of the latter. 6. Another like portion of the soil may be gently boiled for 4 or 5 hours, along with dilute hydrochloric acid, in a flask furnished with a long glass tube passing through the cork, to prevent loss (see ethee) ; after that time the whole must be thrown upon a Alter, and what refuses to pass through (silica) washed with distilled water, dried, ignited, and weighed. 7. The filtrate and washings from No. 6 are next successively treated for alumina {pure clay), LIME, PHOSPHATE OF LIME, PHOSPHOEIC ACID, OXIDE OF lEON, ALEALIES (potassa Or soda), AMMONIA (both ready formed and latent). See. Sec., in the manner noticed under Glass, Guano, and the names of the respective sub- stances referred to. See Ageicultuee, Ma- NUEES, &c. SOL'ANINE. Syn. Solania, Solanina, L. A peculiar basic substance, obtained from various species of the Solanacece. Prep. Filter the juice of ripe black night- shade berries (Solanum nigrum), add ammonia, filter, wash the sediment, boil it in alcohol, filter, and distil off the spirit; the solanine is left as a white powder. Prop., Sfc. Insoluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol; bitter; emetic j narcotic, and poi- sonous. By careful crystallization in alcohol it forms pearly, needle-like crystals, somewhat resembling those of disulphate of quinine. With the acids it forms salts, many of which are crystallizable. It may also be obtained from the leaves and stem of Solanum Dulcamara, or bitter-sweet. Solanine is classed among the ‘ Glucosides,^ or those principles which, by a peculiar decomposition, are resolved into GEAPE SUGAE (glucose), and an altered or new principle. In the case of solanine the decom- position is brought about by acids, and a new principle, called solanidin, is formed. SOL'DEEING. The union of metallic sur- faces by means of a more fusible metal fluxed between them. The method of autogenous SOLDEEING, invented by M. De Richmont, an exception to this definition. (See pc* 248.) In all cases the surfaces must be p( fectly clean, and in absolute contact, and t air must be excluded, to prevent oxldatic For this last purpose the brazier and silm, smith use powdered borax made into a pas' with water; the coppersmith, powdered 5 ammoniac; and the tinman, powdered resi' Tin-foil applied between the joints of fi brass work, first wetted with a strong solutii of sal ammoniac, makes an excellent junctui care being taken to avoid too much heat. S Solution (Soldering), and below. SOL'DERS. Prep. 1. (For coppee, ieo and DAEK BEASS.) From copper and zh\ equal parts; melted together. For pale bra more zinc must be used. 2. (Fine soldee.) From tin, 2 part lead, 1 part. Melts at 350° Fahr. Used tin and solder copper, tin plates, &c. 3. (For Geeman SilVEE.) From Gerrm silver, 5 parts; zinc, 4 parts; melted togethe run into thin flakes, and then powdered. Al as No. 7. 4. (Glaziee’s.) From lead, 3 parts; ti 1 part. Melts at 500° Fahr. 5. (For gold.) Gold, 12 pennyweight copper, 4 do.; silver, 2 do. 6. (For LEAD and zinc.) From lead, parts; tin, 1 part. 7. (For Pewtee, Beitannia metal, &< From tin, 10 parts; lead, 5 parts; bismut 1 to 3 parts. 8. (For SILVEE.) From fine brass, 6 part silver, 5 parts; zinc, 2 parts. 9. (For Tin plate.) From tin, 2 part lead, 1 part. The addition of bismuth, 1 pa: renders it fit for pewter. SOLE. The Solea vulgaris, a well-knov fish. It is perhaps more frequently eat than any other flat fish, and, when skilful cooked, exceeds them all in delicacy, nut: tiousness, and flavour. SOLU'TION. Syn. Solutio, L. Under t head of solutions (solutiones), in pharmac are properly included only those liquids whi consist of water, or an aqueous menstruum, which has been dissolved an appropria quantity of any soluble substance to impa to the liquor its peculiar properties. Wh spirit is the menstruum, the liquid receh the name of alcoholic solution, spieit, TINCTUEE. In the Ph. L. & D. aqueous i lutions are named liquoes (liquoees) ; whi^ in the Ph. E., and in the old Pharmacopoei generally, they are termed watees (aqu^b). The following list embraces all the solutio of the British pharmacopoeias, with a f( others likely to be useful to the reader. Sor other preparations to which the name h been given will be found under LiQUOi Tinctuees, &c. Solution of Ac'etate of Ammo^nia. Sy Liquoe of acetate of ammonia, Watee < A. OF A., MiNDEEEEUS’ SPIEIT; LlQUOE A j