GINGER. 692 turning on the ‘Hollands flavour/ is given by a very small quantity of garlic, and with Canadian balsam or Strasburg turpentine. The peculiar piquancy, or the property of‘biting the PALATE,’ regarded as a proof of strength and quality by the ignorant gin-drinker, is imparted to the liquor by the addition of a little caustic potassa. Sliced horse-radish gives piquancy as well as mellowness. Grains of paradise, cayenne pepper, and sulphate of zinc, are also commonly added by fraudulent dealers. Although gin is always prepared on the large scale by distillation, it may also he made by the simple solution or digestion of the flavouring ingredients in the spirit j but it is, of course, better for distillation. If made in the former way, no salt must be em- ployed. The gin produced by the above formulse is that denominated in the trade ‘ unsweeten:^ oin,’ ‘ GEoa gin,’ &c. ; but the gin usually sold in the metropolis is a sweetened spirit, and hence is technically dis- tinguished, by the terms ^sweetened,’ or ‘ MADE UP,’ The generality of London gin- drinkers prefer the latter article, even when weaker and inferior, which it usually is, as the addition, of sugar permits adulteration and watering to an enormous extent with absolute impunity. Sweetened spirit cannot be easily tested for its strength, and is taken by the Excise at the strength which it is de- clared to possess by the dealer. To ascertain ivhether gin is sweetened or not, a little may be evaporated in a spoon, over a hot coal or a candle, when, if it is pure, it will leave the spoon scarcely soiled; but if, on the contrary, it has been sweetened, a small quantity of syrupy liquid, or sugar, will be obtained, the sweetness of which may be easily recognised by tasting it. The whole of the casks and utensils em- ployed for gin should be perfectly clean, and properly prepared, so as not to give colour; as if this spirit acquires the palest coloured tint, its value is lessened, and if mtich coloured it is rendered unsaleable. When gin has once become much stained, the only remedy is to re-distil it; when it is only slightly stained, the addition of a few lb. of acetic acid (Ph. L.) to a pipe or butt, a spoonful or two to a gallon, or a few drops to a decanterful, will usually decolour it, either at once or as soon as it is mixed with water to make grog. See Alcoholometet, Casks, Distillation, Hollands, Spieits, &c., and below. Cor'dial Gin. This is gin sweetened with sugar, and slightly aromatized. Prep. Good gin (22 u. p.), 90 gall, j oil of almonds, 1 dr.; oils of cassia, nutmeg, and lemons, of each, 2 dr.; oils of juniper, caraway, and coriander, of each, 3 dr.; essences of orris root and cardamoms, of each, 5 fl. oz.; orange- flower water, 3 pints ; lump sugar, 56 to 60 lb. ; dissolved in water, 4 gall. 'The essences are dissolved in 2 quarts of spirit of wine, and added gradually to the gin until the requisite I flavour is produced, when the sugar (dissolved) is mixed in, along with a sufiicient quantity of soft water, holding 4 oz. of alum in solu- tion, to make up 100 gals. When the whole is perfectly mixed, 2 oz. of salt of tartar, dis- solved in 2 or 3 quarts of hot water, are added, and the liquor is again well rummaged up; after which the cask is bunged up, and allowed to repose. In a week, or less, it will have be- come brilliant, and may be either ‘racked,’ or drawn from the same cask. Product. 100 gall., about 30 u. p. Sweetened Gin. Prep. From unsweetened gin (22 u. p.), 95 gall.; lump sugar, 40 to 45 lb., dissolved in clear water, 3 gall.; mix well, and flne it down as above. Product. 100 gall., at 26 u. p. This, as well as the last, is usually 'permitted’ at 22 or 24 u. p., .which, is also done when the gin has been further low'ered with water so as to be even 30 or 35 u. p. See Spieits, and aiowe. GIN'GER. Syn. Gingeb eoot ; Zingi- BEEIS EADIX, ZiNGIBEE, (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. -‘ The rhizome” (rootstock or underground stem) of “ Zingiber officinale,—Roscoe.” (Ph. L.) Ginger is an aromatic stimulant and stomachic, very useful in flatulence and spasms of the stomach and bowels, and in loss of ap- petite and dyspepsia, arising from debility, or occurring in old or gouty subjects. A piece chewed an hour before dinner tends to provoke the appetite; as a ‘masticatory,’ it often re- lieves toothache, relaxation of the uvula, tender gums, and paralytic affections of the tongue. Made into a paste with warm water, and spread on paper, it forms a useful and simple ‘ head- ache-plaster,’ which frequently gives relief when applied to the forehead or temples. As a‘condiment’ and ‘flavouring ingredient,’ it is perhaps one of the most wholesome of the aromatic kinds, and is less acrid than the peppers. Dose. 10 gr. to j teaspoonful, stirred up in any simple liquid. Pur., S(c. The best is that known in com- merce as ‘ unbleached Jamaica gingee,’ which is an uncoated pale variety, occurring in large, bold, fleshy pieces (‘ eaces’), which cut soft, bright, and pale-coloured. The inferior varieties occur in smaller pieces, and are darker- colouredj flinty, and shrivelled. The dealers frequently ‘ dress up’ the common dark-co- loured gingers by washing them in water, drying them, and then ‘ rouncing’ them in a bag with a little calcined whiting or magnesia (washed gingee) ; or they bleach them by dipping them into a solution of chloride of lime, or by exposing them to the fumes of burn- ing sulphur (bleached gingee) ; or they dip them into a milk formed of quicklime or whiting and water (white-washed gingee). The last has a chalk-white surface, which can- not be mistaken for the natural one. Pow- DEEED GINGEE is with difficulty obtained pure and good. The common adulterants are wheat-four, or East Indian arrow-root, and plantain meal. The first may be detected by