1243 STUCCO—STUFFING. \ excess of the precipitant.—3. Bicarbonate of 1 soda produces, in neutral solutions, a like white precipitate, which is insoluble in excess, I hut which redissolves on the addition of a single drop of acid; in acid solutions no pre- : cipitate occurs for some time, in the cold, but ; immediately on boiling the liquid.—4. Nitric 1 acid dissolves pure strychnia and its salts to ; colourless fluids, which become yellow when heated. Commercial strychnine, from con- I taining a little brucine, is reddened by this t test.—5. A minute quantity of strychnine being mixed with a small drop of concentrated sulphuric acid, placed on a white capsule or slip of glass, forms a colourless solution, but yields, on the addition of a very small crystal 1 of bichromate of potash, or a very minute portion of chromic acid, a rich violet colour, which gradually changes to red and yellow, and disappears after some time. The a grain yields very distinct indications.—6. Pure oxide or peroxide of lead produces a 1 similar reaction to the last, provided the sul- phuric acid contain about Ig of nitric acid. Pois. The characteristic symptom is the special influence exerted upon the nervous system, which is manifested by a general con- traction of all the muscles of the body, with rigidity of the spinal column. A profound I calm soon succeeds, which is followed by a I new tetanic seizure, longer than the first, during which the respiration is suspended. I These symptoms then cease, the breathing I becomes easy, and there is stupor, followed by I another general contraction. In fatal cases .these attacks are renewed, at intervals, with ; increasing violence, until death ensues. One phenomenon w'hich is only found in poisonings iby substances containing strychnine is, that itouchiner any part of the body, or even threat- lening to do so, instantly produces the tetanic spasm. 1 Treat. The stomach should be immediately jcleared by means of an emetic, tickling the jfauces, &c. To counteract the asphyxia from tetanus, &c., artificial respiration should be practised with diligence and care. “ If the poison has been applied externally, we ought limmediately to cauterize the part, and apply |a ligature tightly above the wound. If the poison has been swallowed for some time, we jshould give a purgative clyster, and administer \draughts containing sulphuric ether or oil of \turpentine, which in most cases produce a salutary effect. Lastly, injections of chlorine and decoction of tannin are of value.'^ I According to Ch. Gunther, the greatest Ireliance may be placed on full doses of opium, lassisted by venesection, in cases of poisoning Iby strychnia or nux vomica. His plan is to ladminister this drug in the form of solution lor mixture, in combination wuth a saline laperient. i Uses, It is a mo&t frightful poison, pro- Iducing tetanus and death in very small doses. I Even u', gr. will sometimes occasion tetanic twitchings in persons of delicate temperament. gr. blown into the throat of a small dog produced death in 6 minutes. In very minute doses it acts as a useful tonic in various nervous diseases, chronic diarrhoea, leucorrhoea, &c.; in slightly larger ones, it has been advgin- tageously employed in certain forms of para- lysis, in tic douloureux, impotence, &c. Dose. 5? to T5 (dissolved in water by means of a drop of acetic or hydrochloric acid), gradually and cautiously increased until it slightly aflects the muscular system. Eternally, to i gr. at a time. Concluding remarks. The Edinburgh Col- lege orders, the nux vomica to be exposed for two hours to steam, to soften it, then to chop or slice it, next to dry it by the heat of a vapour bath or hot air, and, lastly, to grind it in a coffee-mill. In the process of the Ph. L. 1836 magnesia is employed to effect the pre- cipitation. In the present Ph. L. strychnine appears in the Materia Medica. Most of that of commerce is now obtained from St. Ignatius’s bean, which, according to Geiseler, yields 1^ § of it; whereas 3 lb. of nux vomica produce little more than 1 dr. Commercial strychnine may be freed from brucine by digesting the powder in dilute alcohol. The salts strychnine, which are occasionally asked for in trade, are the acetate (strych- nia ACETAS), HTDEOCHLOKATE Or MURIATE (S. MURIAS—Ph. D.), HYDRIODATE (S. HYDRIO- DAS), NITRATE (S. NITRAS), PHOSPHATE (S. PHOSPHAs), and sulphate (s. sulphas). All of these may be easily formed by simply neu- tralizing the acid previously diluted with 2 or 3 parts of water,rwith. the alkaloid, assisting the solution with heat; crystals are deposited as the liquid cools, and more may be obtained by evaporating the mother-liquor. STUC'CO. The name of several calcareous cements or mortars. Fine stucco is the third or last coat of three-coat plaster, and consists of a mixture of fine lime and quartzose sand, which, in application, is “ twice hand- floated and well trowelled.’^ STUF'FING. Seasoning placed in meat, poultry, game, &c., before dressing them, in order to give them an increased relish. The same materials, formed into balls, are added to soups, gravies, &c., under the name of EORCEMEAT. Prep. 1. (For fowls, &c.) Shred a little ham or gammon, some cold veal or fowl, some beef suet, a small quantity of onion, some parsley, a very little lemon peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or cayenne, and bread ct'umbs; pound them in a mortar, and bind it with 1 or 2 eggs. 2. (For HARE, or anything in imitation of it —Mrs. Rundell.) The scalded liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, some parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, a little shalot, and either onion or chives, all chopped fine; with some crumbs of bread, pepper, and nutmeg, beaten in a mortar with an egg.