MECONIC ACID—MEDICINES. 893 parent; when all the liquid has passed through, cold water, ^ pint, is gently poured on, in small portions at a time, and allowed to drain through into that previously collected. The product is about f pint of cold extract of flesh, having a red colour, and a pleasant, soup-like taste. It is administered cold to the invalid— a teacupful at a time, and must on no account be warmed, as the application of even a very slight heat causes its decomposition and the separation of a solid mass of coagulated albu- men. This cold exti’act of flesh is not only much more nutritious than ordinary beef tea, but also contains a certain quantity of the red colouring matter of blood, in which there is a much larger proportion of the iron requisite for the formation of blood-particles. The hydro- chloric acid also greatly facilitates the process of digestion. This formula is a modification of the one recently recommended by Liebig for the preparation of a highly nutritive and restorative food for invalids. 3. (Exteactum sanguinis botis—Dr. Mauthner.) Pass fresh blood (caught from the slaughtered animal) through a sieve, evaporate it to dryness in a water bath, and when cold, rub it to powder. Dose. 10 to 20 gr., or more, per diem, in a little water. Obs. The above preparations are intended to supersede the inefficient compounds—beef tea, meat soups, &c., during sickness and con- valescence. MM. Breslau and Mauthner de- scribe their extracts of flesh and blood as being peculiarly advantageous in scrofulous exhaustion, exhaustion from aiisemia, diar- rhoea, &c. The extract of Falkland or Liebig is represented as having been employed both in the hospitals and in private practice at Munich, with the most extraordinary success. It is said to be capable of assimilation with the least possible expenditure of the vital force. MECONTC ACID. Syn. Acidum meconicum, L. A peculiar acid, first obtained by Sertuerner from opium, in 1804. Prep. Meconate of lime is suspended in warm water, and treated with hydrochloric acid. Im- pure meconic acid crystallizes on cooling, and may be purified by repeated treatment in the same way with hydrochloric acid. Its purity is ascertained by its leaving no residue when heated in a platinum or glass capsule. Prop. Meconic acid forms beautiful pearly scales; possesses a sour astringent taste; is soluble in'jboiling water, and to a less extent in cold; it is also soluble in alcohol. With the acids it forms salts called ‘ meconates,’ most of which are crystallizable. Meconate OF LIME is obtained "by heating a solution of chloride of calcium with an infusion of opium made with cold water, and neutralized by pow- dered marble, and collecting the precipitate. I\Ieconate of potassa is prepared by direct solution of the base in the impure acid ob- tained from meconate of lime till the liquor turns green, heat being applied, when the salt crystallizes out as the liquid cools; it may be purified by pressure and recrystallization. Tests. Meconic acid is characterised by— 1. Precipitating the sesquisalts of iron red, and the red colour not being destroyed by the action of corrosive sublimate.—2. Precipitating a weak solution of ammonio-sulphate of copper green.—3. With acetate of lead, nitrate of silver, and chloride of barium, it gives white precipitates, which are soluble in nitric acid. —4. It is not reddened by chloride of gold. MEC'ONIN. A white, crystalline, odourless, neutral substance, discovered by Couerbe in opium. It remains in solution when an aque- ous infusion of opium is precipitated by am- monia. It may be obtained by evaporating the residual liquor, and purifying the solid matter thus obtained by alternate solution in alcohol, water, and ether. It forms white prisms, and is distinguished from codeine and MOEPHiNE by the absence of alkaline proper- ties, and also from the latter by its fusibility, its greater solubility in water, and in not being turned blue by the sesquisalts of iron. Neither meeonin nor meconic acid appears to exercise any important physiological action on the hu- man frame, and are of comparatively small importance both in pharmacy and chemistry. MECO'NIUM. See Opium. MEDICINES. However skilful the me- dical practitioner may be, and however judi- eious his treatment, both are interfered with, and their value more or less neutralized, if the remedies he orders are not administered pre- cisely according to his instructions. “ It is the duty of the attendant on the sick to follow implicitly the directions of the physician, as well in exactly complying with his orders as in doing nothing that she has not been or- dered to do. At the same time, there are ex- ceptions to this rule, in which a suspension of the remedy, or a deviation from the order of the physician, is not only allowable, but is ab- solutely required. Thus, from idiosyiicracy or some other cause, the remedy in the doses or- dered may have no effect, or may produce one widely different from that intended or ex- pected. In such cases it is evident that a strict adherence to the direction of the physi- cian would be pi’oductive of evil; but he should be immediately apprised of the circum- stance.” The common practice of neglecting to administer the doses of medicine at the pre- scribed time, or after prescribed intervals, and then, to compensate for the omission, giving the medicine more frequently or in larger doses, cannot be too severely censured, as destruc- tive to the welfare of the patient and inju- rious to the credit of the physician. For the purpose of disguising the taste of medicines, or lessening their nauseating pro- perties, Dr. Pollio has recommended a means founded on the physiological fact that a strong impression on the nerves (whether of vision, hearing, or taste) renders that which follows less perceptible than under the usual circum-