STUFFING (BIRDS, ETC.)—SUBERIC ACID. 1244 3. (For GOOSE.) From sage, onion, suet, and crumb of bread. Geese are now, however, more commonly stuffed with veal stuffing. 4. (For VEAL—Soyer.) Chop ^ lb. of suet, put it into a hasin with f lb. of bread crumbs, a teaspoonful of salt, a \ do. of pepper, a little thyme or lemon peel chopped, and 3 whole eggs ; mix well. Obs. 1 lb. of bread crumbs and one more egg may be used; they will make it c\it firmer. This, as well as No. 1, is now commonly em- ployed for poultry and meat. Ude, a great authority in these matters, observes that “ it would not be amiss to add a piece of butter, and to pound the whole in a mortar.^^ “ Grated ham or tongue may be added to this stuffing.” (Rundell.) This is also used for TUEKEYS, and for ‘ eorcemeat patties.’ STUFFING (Birds, &c.). The skins are commonly dusted over with a mixture of camphor, alum, and sulphur, in about equal quantities; or, they are smeared with Becceur's arsenical soap, noticed at page 1206. Accord- ing to Crace Calvert, carbolic acid, which is worth only about 2s. per gall., is superior to all other substances for preserving the skins of birds and animals, as well as corpses. STUR'GEON. Several species of Acipenser pass under this name. The common sturgeon is the Acipenser sturio (Linn.). The roe is made into ‘caviare,’ the swimming-bladder into ‘ ISINGLASS.’ STY. Syn. Stye, Stian ; Hordeolem, L. A small inflamed tumour, or boil, at the edge of the eyelid, somewhat resembling a barley- corn. It is usually recommended to promote its maturation by warm applications, since “the stye, like other furunculous inflamma- tions, forms an exception to the general rule, that the best mode in which inflammatory swellings can end is resolution.” STYPH'NIC ACID. A compound obtained by the action of nitric acid (sp. gr. 1-2) upon asafoetida, purree, and several other gum resins, extracts, &c. It forms slender, yellowish- white prisms, which are sparingly soluble in w^ater, but freely soluble in alcohol and ether. Its salts crystallize in orange-yellow needles, and detonate when heated. STYP'TICS. Syn. Styptica,L. Substances which arrest local bleeding. Creasote, tannic acid, alcohol, alum, and most of the astringent salts, belong to this class. Brocchieri’s Styptic. A nostrum consisting of the water distilled from pine tops. Eaton’s Styptic. A solution of sulphate disguised by the addition of some unim- portant substances. “ Helvetius’s styptic was for a long time employed under this title.” (Paris.) Helvetius’s Styptic. Syn. Stypticttm hel- VETII, L. Iron filings (fine) and cream of tartar, mixed to a proper consistence with French brandy. See Helvetiijs’s Styptic Powder {page 1132). STY'RACIN. A name given by Simon to a crystallizable substance extracted from storax by means of alcohol. STY'RAX. Syn. Storax, Storax balsam ; Styrax (Ph. L. & E.), L. “ The liquid balsam of an uncertain plant.’’ (Ph. L.) The “ bal- samic exudation of Styrax officinale, Linn.” (Ph. E.), or cane storax tree. Twm or three varieties are known in commerce:—Liquid STORAX (styrax LIQUIDA), LUMP Or BED STORAX (s. IN massis), which is generally very impure; storax in tears (s. in lachrymis), and STORAX in reeds (s. calamita). The last are now seldom met with in trade. Prepared storax (styrax colata; s. PR^PARATA—Ph. L.) is obtained by dissolving storax, 1 lb., in rectified spirit, 4 pints, by a gentle heat, straining the solution through linen, distilling off greater part of the spirit, and evaporating what is left to a proper con- sistence by the heat of a water bath. It is less fragrant than the raw drug. Storax is stimulant, expectorant, and nervine. It was formerly much used in menstrual ob- structions, phthisis, coughs, asthmas, and other breath diseases. It is now chiefly used as a perfume. Bose. 6 to 20 or 30 gr. A factitious strained Storax is made as fol- lows :—1. Balsam of Peru, 1 lb.; balsam of tolu, 4 lb. / mix. 2. Gum benzoin, 8 Ib^ ,* liquid storax, 6 lb.; balsam of tolu and Socotrine aloes, of each, 3 lb.; balsam of Peru, 2 lb.; N. S. W. yellow gum, 7 lb.; rectified spirit, 7 gall.; digest, with frequent agitation, for a fortnight, strain and distil off the spirit (about 5^ gall.) until the residuum has a proper consistence. Prod. 28 lb. 3. Liquid storax, 1 oz. ; Socotrine aloes, ^ lb.; balsam of tolu, 2 lb.; rectified spirit, q. s. STY’ROL. An ethereal liquid, obtained, by cautious distillation, from the volatile oil of liquid storax. It is thin; colourless; power- fully aromatic and fragrant; scarcely soluble in water; dissolves freely in alcohol and ether; boils at 293° and remains liquid at 0° Fahr. Sp. gr. *924. It may be also obtained from cinnamic acid. Crude styrol may be ob- tained by distilling a mixture of 3 parts of storax, 1 of carbonate of soda, and 5 of water. See Cinnamic Acid, Metastyrol, &c. STY'RONE. A neutral, crystalline sub- stance, obtained, along with cinnamic acid, when styracin is distilled with hydrate of po- tassa. It is the styrax analogue of peruviN. SUB-. See Nomenclature and Salts. SU'BERIC ACID. Obtained by boiling rasped cork for some time in nitric acid, and then evaporating the liquid to one half; the resulting crystalline powder may be purified by redissolving it in boiling water, and allow- ing it to neutralize. It has been produced together with succinic acid by the long-con- tinued action of nitric acid upon stearic and margaric acids. Prop., Sfc. It closely resembles mucic ACID; it is colourless; sparingly soluble in