AMMOXIA. 150 the salt is obtained by evaporation, &c., in the usual way. 3. Mr. Croll {Patent dated 1849) converts the * crude animoniacal vapours’ that issue with the ‘gas’ from the common retorts into the hydrochlorate, and obtains a solution of it, by passing the gas through a solution of crude CHLOEIDE OF MANGANESE^ (1 CWt. of the SuU to about 40 gal. of water), contained in one of the ordinary vessels used for purifying coal- gas. The ‘manganic solution’ absorbs the ammonia and its salts, converting them into the hydrochlorate, whilst a corresponding pro- portion of ‘oxide of manganesium’ is precipi- tated. As soon as the liquor in the ‘ purifier’ is fully saturated, it is drawn off, and replaced by a fresh quantity ; whilst the ‘ saturated liquor’ containing the hydrochlorate, after sub- sidence, or filtration, is evaporated, &c., as before. Crude chloeide of ieon may be substituted for the ‘ chloride of manganese,’ in the above process; as may also sulphate of MANGANESE, but then the product, of course, will be ‘sulphate of ammonia,^ instead of the hydrochlorate. 4. Mr. Laming {Patent dated 1850) also proposes the use of various ‘salts* and ‘mix- tures* for retaining and condensing the am- moniacal vapour of coal-gas, as it passes from the retorts through the ‘purifiers.’ Of these the principal are chloeide of calcium ob- tained by decomposing chloride of iron by hydrate of lime / chloeide of ieon, obtained by decomposing sulphate of iron with chloride of sodium; chloeide of magnesium ; a mix- tm*e of sulphate of lime and sulphate of IEON; or of moist precipitated oxide of iron with carbonate of lime, carbonate of magnesia, or magnesian limestone; or one containing sul- phate of magnesia, or chloride of magnesium or calcium, or one, or more of them, in combina- tion with oxide of copper, either with or without lime or magnesia, or with both or either of them or their carbonates. These ‘ salts,’ or ‘ com- pounds,’ are mingled with sawdust, or some other porous substance not acted on by the gas, before being put into the ‘purifiers;’ and after they become saturated with the vapour, the newly formed ‘hydrochlorate* or ‘sulphate* (according to the ‘salt’ or ‘mixture’ em- ployed), is washed out of the mass with water. Besides the usual sources of sal ammoniac (and the other ammonia-salts of commerce), it has been proposed to obtain it from guano, peat, shale, &c., as noticed under Sesquicae- BONATE OF AMMONIA (supra); the substance employed to effect the neutralisation or decom- position of the ammoniacal liquor being, in this case, either hydrochloric acid or a chloride. The i Obtained from the cliloride-of-lime works. The por- tion of tlie ‘ precipitated oxide of manganesium’ saved from the process, may be reconverted into tlie chloride, by mixing 3 jmrts of it with 4 parts of common salt, anti heating tlie mixtuie to low redness,scarcely perceptible in the dark, for 2 to 3 hours. 140 lb. of the calcined mass, Mith40^ra/. of tcater, forms a solution tliat may be again pumped into the ‘purifier,’ patent processes of Reece, Turner, and others, for this purpose, have been already noticed.^ In Young’s Patent (1841) for ‘obtaining AMMONIA and its salts,’ a mixture of 2 parts of guano, and 1 part of hydrate of lime, is dis- tilled in a retort placed vertically, at a moderate heat, gradually increased until the ‘ bottom ’ of theretortbecoraesred-hot. The amraoniacal-por- tion of the ‘ fumes ’ evolved are absorbed by the cold water contained in a suitable ‘ condenser whilst the other gases eliminated by the pro- cess pass off uncondensed. By subsequently passing carbonic acid gas into the ‘ liquor of the condenser,’ a solution ‘ of caebonate, bi- CAEBONATE, or SESQUICAEBONATE of ammonia’ is formed. By nearly filling the ‘ condenser' with diluted hydrochloric or sulphuric acid, instead of with water, a ‘ solution of hydeo- CHLOEATE or of SULPHATE of ammonia ’ is obtained. Stale urine saturated with hydrochloric acid, or with sulphuric acid diluted with about twice its weight of water, yields SAL AMMONIAC, or SULPHATE OF AMMONIA, (according to the acid used,) on evaporation. Hydrochlorate of ammonia is now wholly prepared on the large scale,' and never by the dealer or retailer, by whom it is only occa- sionally refined or purified, in small quantities, for chemical and medical purposes. The sal am- moniac of commerce is found to be sufficiently pure for all its ordinary applications in the arts ; but when wanted of greater purity, it is broken into piece.s, and resublimed from an earthenware vessel into a large receiver of earthenware or glass. The product (refined SAL AMMONIAC, DOUBLE-EEFINED S. A.; AM- MONITE hydrociilo"eas pu"ra, sal ammoni'- Acus DEPUEA'TUsf, L.) is popularly known as FLOWERS OF SAL AMMONIAC {flo'res sa'lis am- monVaci, L.), from being in a finely divided crystalline state. The chemically pure hydrochlorate may be prepared by bringing its gaseous constituents— ammonia and hydrochloric acid—into contact. During the combination much heat, and even light, is generated, and the anhydrous solid salt is precipitated in a minutely divided state, which, under the microscope, is seen to be crystalline. It may be also more easily and conveniently prepared by saturating pure and moderately dilute hydrochloric acid with am- monia or its carbonates, and evaporating the solution until a pellicle forms, when crystals of the hydrochloeate separate as the liquid cools. A similar but rather more violent reac- tion occurs when gaseous chlorine is brought in contact with gaseous ammonia, or is passed into a nearly saturated solution of ammonia or its i carbonates; but in this case nitrogen is evolved j at the expense of the ammonia. The manufacture of sal ammoniac is usually a distinct business, and is carried on to a very great extent in the neighbourhood of London. Indeed the London makers now supply the j 2 See page.'i 113-4, &c.