GREEN SALT OF MAGNUS—GUAIACIN. 713 for several hours, or until the powder assumes i a granular and beautiful tint. Very rich. i 3. (Kastner.) Arsenious acid, 8 lb., is dis- s solved in water as before, and added to ver- £ digris, 9 or 10,/^., diffused through water, q. s., ( at 120° Fahr., the pap of the latter being first c passed through a sieve; the mixed ingredients < are then set aside till the mutual reaction pro- j duces the proper shade. 4. (Dr. Ure.) Sulphate of copper^ 50 Ib.^ and ( lime, 10 lb., are dissolved in good vinegar, 20 1 gall., and a boiling-hot solution of white arsenic, s 50 lb., is conveyed as quickly as possible into 1 the liquor; fke mixture, is stirred several 1 f times, and then allowed- to subside, after which 1 I it is collected on a filter, dried, and powdered, i The supernatant liquor is enpployed the next ] f time for dissolving the arsenic, 5. See Emeeald Gbeei^ (above), I Obs. This is a very fine, permanent green ; I pigment. “ A great deal of needless alarm has II been excited about its supposed deleterious : I effects. It is extensively employed for staining ^ I wall-papers, and persons inhabiting rooms thus ^ I papered are said to have had their health seri- iously deranged by the arsenical fumes evolved from it! Now it is utterly impossible that arsenic could volatilize from such a compound at ordinary temperatures; it does not decom- ' pose at any temperature below redness.” (Watts.) Verd'igris. See Coppeji (Acetates) and Veedigeis. Green Verd'iter. This is essentially a mix- i ture of oxide and carbonate of copper, in uncer- 1 tain proportions, with chalk. Factitious green j bice and mountain green have a like composi? I tion. See Veeditee. Verona Green, The mineral called green i earth. Vienna Green. The saine as Schweinfurt 1 green. : GREEN SALT OF MAGNUS. This is ob- 1 tained by adding ammonia, in excess, to a hot solution oi protochloride of platinum and ammo- nium; the salt separates after a time under I the form of green crystals, which are insoluble 1 in water. The reactions of this substance are , highly interesting to the scientific chemist. I It contains the elements of protochloride of I platinum and ammonia, or PtCl, NHg. I GREEN SICKNESS. See Chloeosis. I GREEK FIRE. This compound, so much I used in ancient warfare, is believed to have j had naphtha for its chief ingredient. Accord- ing to some authorities, it was a mixture of j asphaltum, nitre, and sulphur. ! GREGORY’S SALT. The crude hydro- I chlorate of morphia, prepared by Gregory’s ' process. It is a double hydrochlorate of mor- 1 phia and codeia. I GRINDING. The operation of reducing i sxibstances to powder by attrition or friction. I In the laboratory, the term is chiefly applied to j powdering by means of a mill or by mechanical 1 power, in opposition to simple pounding or trituration in a moptar or with a slab and muller. All the principal powders, paints, &c., sold by the druggist, drysalter, and colourman, are reduced in the drug or colour mill. Re- cently machinery has even been applied to the common mortar. An ingenious and very useful contrivance of "this kind is the 'mechanical mortar’ of Mr. H. Goodhall, of Derby. GRIND'STONES (Artificial). Washed sili- ceous sand, 3 or 4 parts; shell-lac, 1 part; melt together, and form the mass into the proper shape whilst warm, with strong pressure. The fineness of the sand must depend on the work the stone is intended for. The same composi- tion is formed upon pieces of wood, as corn rubbers, and for the purpose of sharpening knives, and. cutting stones, shells, &c. See Emeey. < GROATS. Syn. Geits ; Geetellym, AVENA decoeticata, Aven^ SEMINA, Avena (Ph. L.), L. Common oats, deprived of their exte- rior integuments or husks. This is generally effected in a mill, which, at the same time, cuts them into two or three pieces. When crushed flat, they are denominated Embden GEOATS. GROS'SULINE. The name given by Guibourt to a peculiar principle found in gooseberries and some other acid fruits. GROUT. Mortar reduced to a thin paste with water, used to fill up the joints of masonry and brickwork. A finer kind is used to ‘ finish off’ the best ceilings. GRUEL. Syn. Oatmeal getiel, Watee g. ; Decoctum aven.®, L. Oatmeal or groats boiled with water to a proper consistence, and strained. It is variously flavoured to suit the palate; but the addition of a little white sugar, and finely powdered Jamaica ginger, with or without a glass of wine, is the least likely to offend the stomach. Nutmegs, cin- namon, &c., frequently disagree with invalids. Sometimes milk or butter is added. Embden groats require less boiling than the common groats. Of oatmeal, the Scotch is commonly said to be the best. The following directions for making gruel from oatmeal are given by Dr. A. T.Thomson:— "Oatmeal, 2 oz.; cold water, 1^ pint; rub the meal in a basin, with the back of a spoon, in some of the water, pouring off the fluid after the grosser particles have subsided, but whilst the milkiness remains; repeat this with fresh water, unite the washings, and boil until a soft, thick mucilage is formed.” GUATACIN. Syn. Geaiacic acid, Puee GUAIACIJM EESIN. A substance having the nature of an acid, discovered by Trommsdorff in the wood and bark of Guaiacum officinale. Prep. The tincture of guaiacum is treated with hydrate of lime, and the guaiacate of lime thus formed is decomposed with dilute sul- phuric acid; it is purified by dissolving it in alcohol. Prop., <^c. Insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol and ether; it unites with the caustic