1184 SAND—SAPONIN. 2. (Rose.) See Cerate. 3. (White.) From the finest spermaceti ointment or cerate, 3 oz.; finely powdered white sugar, 1 oz.; neroli or essence de petit grain, 10 or 12 drops, or q. s. Obs. Numerous formulae are extant for lip-salves, as for other like articles, but the preceding are those generally employed in trade. The perfumes may be varied at will, and the salve named after them. A very small quantity of finely powdered borax is occasionally added. French lip-salve is said to contain alum, in fine powder; and German lip-salve is said to he made of cacao butter. See Cerate, Pommade, and Oint- ment. SAND. Syn. Arena, L. River and sea sand consist chiefly of finely divided siliceous matter, mixed, occasionally, with carbonate of lime. That of Lynn and Alum Bay is nearly pure silex, and is, therefore, selected for the manufacture of glass. Sand is used by mould- ers in metal, and as manure for heavy land. It is a large and necessary portion of every fertile soil. SAN'DAL WOOD. 1. (Red Sanders wood, R. SAUNDERS W.; LiGNUM SANTALI RUBRI, Lignum santalinum rubrum, Pterocarpus —Ph. L. & E.) The wood of Pterocarpus santalinus. It is used in medicine as a colour- ing matter. It is also employed in dyeing, and to stain varnishes. Wool may be dyed a carmine red by dipping it alternately into an infusion of this ivood and an acidulous bath,. (Trommsdorff.) Prepared with a mordant of alum and tartar, and then dyed in a bath of sandal wood and sumach, it takes a reddish- yellow. (Bancroft.) See Santalin. 2. (White sandal wood. White banders ; Santalum album.) The young timber, or, according to others, the outside w’ood of San- talum album (Linn.). - 3. (Yellow sandal wood; Santalum CITRINUM, S. FLAVUM.) The old timber, or, according to others, the heart of the same tree. Both the latter are much esteemed on account of their fragrance, and yield a valuable essential oil. SAN'DARACH. Syn. Sandrac, Gum s. A resin obtained from Thuja articulata, and Juniperus communis (in warm climates). It is slightly fragrant, is freely soluble in rectified spirit, and has a sp. gr. of 1*05 to 1*09. It is used as incense, pounce, in varnishes, &c. * SAN'DERS WOOD. See Sandal Wood. SAN'DIVER. Syn. Glass gall ; Fel vitri, Sal vitri, L. The saline scum that swims on glass when first made. It is occasionally used in tooth-powders. SANGUINA'RINE. Syn. Sanguinarina, L. Obtained from the root of Sanguinaria Cana- densis (Linn.), or blood-root, by digesting it in anhydrous alcohol; exhausting it with weak sulphuric acid ; precipitating by liquor of am- monia ; dissolving out by ether, and precipi- tating SULPHATE OF SANGUINARINE by the addition of sulphuric acid. The sulphate in be decomposed by ammonia, which precipita the alkaloid as a white pearly substance, of acrid taste, very soluble in alcohol, also solull in ether and volatile oils. With acids it for soluble salts, remarkable for their beauti red, crimson, and scarlet colours. These sa are used in medicine as expectorants, in doii of fractions of a grain. The ‘ SANGUINARIN ’ of the American ‘ EcL tics ’ is prepared by precipitating a saturat. tincture of blood-root by water. It contal' an uncertain proportion of the alkaloid, and of a deep reddish-brown colour. See Resi OILS. SAN'TALIN. The colouring principle red Sanders wood. It may be obtained as reddish resinous mass by evaporating its coholic infusion, or by digesting the rasp wood in ammonia water, and then preci tating it with an acid. Its spirituous soluti gives a rich purple precipitate with pro chloride of tin, and a violet one with acetate lead. SAN'TONIN. Syn. Santonic acid; Si toninum, L. The crystalline and charactt istic principle of the seed of several variet of Artemisia. Prep. 1. (Galloud.) Boil worm-seed (sem cynaj, semen contra) in water with milk lime; strain, press, boil the marc with me water, and again press; mix the decoctioi and, when clear, concentrate the liquor evaporation; strain, further evaporate, po it into an earthen vessel, and add hydrochlo\ acid in slight excess; after 24 hours, colh the precipitate, wash it with a little very we spirit, press, and dry it. 2. (Ph. Baden. 1841.) Take of wormsei> 4 parts; hydrate of lime, 14 part; mix, a exhaust them with alcohol of 90§; distil 3-4tlis of the spirit, and evaporate the i mainder to one half, which, at the boiling tei perature, is to be mixed wdth acetic acid excess, and afterwards with water ; on repo impure santonine subsides; wash this with little weak spirit, then dissolve it in rectiji spirit, 10 parts, decolour by ebullition for few minutes wdth animal charcoal, and filte Ci\c filtrate deposits colourless crystals of so tonine as it cools; these are to be dried, a kept in opaque bottles. Prop., 4'c. Prismatic or tabular crystal' inodorous; tasteless, or only slightly bitte fusible; volatilizable; soluble in 4500 pai of cold and about 250 parts of boiling w'ate soluble in cold alcohol and ether; freely sol ble in hot alcohol. It is much esteemed a tasteless worm medicine, and is especialj adapted to remove lumbricales (large rou:j worms). Dose. 6 to 18 or 20 gr., repeat night and morning, followed by a brisk purn SAP GREEN. See Green Pigments. |. SAPONIFICA'TION. See Soap. SAP'ONIN. Syn. Saponinum, L. Awhll non-cry stall! zable substance, obtained by t