220 ARSENIOUS ACID. towards the inner border or extremity. “ If arsenic alone is present, yellow tersulphide of arsenic is formed within the tube ; if antimony alone is present, an orange-red or hlach tersul- phide of antimony is produced; and if the mirror consists of both metals, the two sulphides appear side by side, the sulphide of arsenic, as the more volatile, lying invariably before the sulphide of antimony.” “ If dry hydrochloric acid gas he now transmitted through the tube, without application of heat, no alteration will take place if sulphide of arsenic alone is pre- sent, even though the gas be transmitted through the tube for a considerable time. If sulphide of antimony alone is present, this will entirely disappear; and if both sulphides are present, the sulphide of antimony will imme- diately volatilise, whilst the yellow sulphide of arsenic will remain. If a small quantity of ammonia be now introduced into the tube, the sulphide of arsenic is dissolved, and may thus be readily distinguished from sulphur which perhaps may have separated. personal ex- perience has convinced me of the infallibility of these combined tests for the detection of arsenic.”^ 17. Reduction Test:—a. A small quantity of the ‘ suspected sample,’ in the state of pow- der, is mixed with twice its weight, or more, of some reducing agent or fiux^ and the mixture ( 1) c CLARK'S 1 3 ________________ (a.) The arsenical mixture. \b) Arsenical ring. is placed at the bottom of a very small glass- tube, and heated in the flame of a small spirit- lamp for some time, when the arsenic gradu- ally sublimes, and condenses in the cooler portion of the tube, under the form of a metallic crust, mirror, or ring. A common test-tube, if of very small diameter, may be employed; but those known as the reduction tubes of Liebig, 1 Fresenius’s “ Oual. Cliem. Anal.,” 4th and 5th ed., p. 117-8. 2 Blade flux, or a mixture of ignited carbonate of soda and charcoal, or better still, recently ignited charcoal (either in powder or as a small fragment), are usually em- ployed as reducing agents for ahsenious acid; but if the substance contains an arsenite, a mixture of charcoal sxxAboracic acid; and if a suephuret, either black-flux or a mixture of 2 parts of ignited carbonate of soda with 1 part of charcoal. The ‘ fluxes’ 14 b, c, d, e, f, wliich fol- low in the Text, meet all cases. Rose, or Berzelius, are undoubtedly the most convenient and eflicient. (See engr.) 7, b. (Gdbel.) As the last, but using formiate . 1 of soda as the flux. c. (Du Menil.) Using oxalate of lime as the flux. ' d. *(M’c Gregor.) Using oxalate of soda as the flux. e. (Liebig.) Using a mixture equal parts of dry carbonate of soda and cyanide of potas- sium. The ‘ suspected substance, ’ perfectly dry and in powder, being first introduced into a Berzelius’ tube, is then covered with 6 times the quantity of this mixture, and so that the whole will not more than half-fill the bulb, j A very gentle heat is next applied, to expel any j adhering moisture from the powder and the tube, after which a strong heat is applied to the bulb, and continued for some time, to effect the entire reduction and sublimation of the arsenical compound. f. (A. S. Taylor.) Using obtained by incinerating neutral acetate or tartrate of soda in a covered platinum crucible.”^ Obs. The last five fluxes may be used for either arsenious acid or its compounds, or for the sulphurets of arsenic. The mirrors ob- tained by the last but one (14 e.) are “ of ex- ceeding purityand “ this method deserves to be particularly recommended on account of its simplicity and neatness, as well as for the accuracy of the results attainable by it, even . in cases where only very minute quantities of ' arsenic are present.”"* ' The metallic ring is proved to be arsenical by the properties and tests previously noticed.® Should it be imperfectly formed, or masked by decomposed organic matter, the portion of the tube which contains it may be cut off with a file, next coarsely powdered, then re-introduced into another arsenic-tube, and the exposure to heat repeated. The characteristics most simple and well- marked are— a. The volatility of the deposit when heated, shewn by its escaping from the hotter portion of the tube and condensing on the cooler part higher up or further on. /3. Its conversion into minute octahedral crystals of arsenious acid, when repeatedly chased up and down the tube by the cautious application of the flame of a spirit-lamp first to one part, and then to another. The character of these crystals with respect to volatility, J lustre, transparency, and form, is so exceed- ingly well-marked, that a practised eye may | safely identify them, though their weight should not exceed the y^-yth (Liebig and Gre- gory), or even the y^iyth part of a grain.® A pocket lens is here serviceable. The form of g 3 “ On Poisons,” 2nd ed., p. 386. 4 Fresctiius, ib., 119. W ® See Marsh’s Test, Nascent Hydrogen Tests, ^c. y K ® We liave several times succeeded in obtsiining distinct, |H tlmugh minute crystals, from 1-250 to l-300th of a gr.; _ and very distinct rings from less than the l-500th of ll