DYSENTERY—DYSPEPSIA. 636 DYS'ENTERY. Syn. Bloody fldx ; Dy- SENTEEIA, L. A disease arising from inflam- mation of the mucous membrane of the large intestines, and characterised by stools con- sisting chiefly of blood and mucus, or other morbid matter, accompanied with griping of the bowels, and followed by tenesmus. There is generally more or less fever, and the natural faeces are either retained or discharged in small, hard balls {scyhala). The common causes of this disease are marsh miasma, improper diet, excessive exhaustion and fatigue, and, above all, exposure to the cold and damp air of night after a hot day. Treat. The common dysentery of this country generally gives way to gentle ape- rients {castor oil or salts-and manna), to cleanse the bowels, followed by mild opiates or mor- phia, to allay irritation. The chronic symp- toms, which frequently hang about for some time, are best combated by mild tonics and vegetable bitters {bark, calumba, cascarilla). Occasionally, chalybeates {ammonia-citrate of iron, lactate of iron, wine of iron, saccharine carbonate of iron) will be found useful during convalescence. Throughout, the diet should be light and nutritious. The contagious dysentery, of camps and hot climates, is a severe and often fatal disease, in which the preceding symptoms are complicated with remittent or typhoid fever. Its treat- ment is tedious and difficult, and depends chiefly on judiciously meeting the several symptoms as they develop themselves. Aperi- ents, diaphoretics, and nauseants, followed by tonics, are the remedies generally relied on. The febrile symptoms must be treated accord- ing to their inflammatory or putrid tendency. This variety of the disease frequently gives rise to organic diseases of the abdominal vis- cera, dropsy, &c. It is regarded by some as contagious, but without sufficient reason. DYS'LYSINE. A resinous substance, in- soluble in water, formed, along with other substances, when glico-cholalic acid is boiled for some time in concentrated sulphuric or hy- drochloric acid. DYSMENORRHGE'A. See Mexstedatiox. DYSPEP'SIA. [L.] Syn. Dyspep'sy, In- digestion. This complaint pervades every rank of society, and is, perhaps, of all others, the most general. Few indeed are there who wholly escape it, in one or other of its forms. The common symptoms of dyspepsia are— want of appetite, sudden and transient dis- tensions of the stomach, frequent eructations, heartburn, stomachic pains, occasional vomit- ing, and, frequently, costiveness or diarrhoea. Sometimes the head is affected, and dimness of sight, double vision, muscae volitantes, and slight vertigo, are experienced, along witli a multitude of other symptoms, depending on a derange- ment of the functions of the nervous system. The causes of dyspepsia are numerous. In the higher ranks of society it is a common con- sequence of over-indulgence in the luxuries of the table, of late hours, or of the want of proper exercise, both of body and mind. In i the studious, and those who lead a sedentary ; life, it is usually caused by excessive mental exertion or anxiety, or by the fatigues of busi- ness, and the want of sufficient bodily exertion and of pure air. In the lower orders of society \ it generally results from inebriety, or a defi- ciency of proper food and clothing, bad ven- tilation, &c.; and is not unfrequently occa- sioned by the physical powers being over-taxed, especially soon after meals. The treatment of dyspepsia depends less on medicine than on the adoption of regular habits of life. Moderation in eating, drinking, and the indulgence of the passions; early rising, due exercise, and retiring to rest at an | early hour, will do much to restore the tone i both of the stomach and nerves. Excessive j study and mental exertion should be avoided, \ and recourse should frequently be had to i society and amusements of a lively and inte- ij resting character. If the bowels are confined, 4 mild aperients should be taken, and if diar- if rhcea is present, antacids and absorbents may | be had recourse to with advantge. The stomach f may be strengthened by the use of mild bitters, i tonics, and stimulants, and sea bathing, or the i shoiver or tepid bath, may be taken, when con- ; venient, to strengthen the nervous system, i When dyspepsia is a secondary or symptomatic : disease, the cause should be sought out, and the treatment varied accordingly. Among the t aperient medicines most suitable to dyspepsia may be mentioned—Epsom salts, phosphate of soda, and Seidlitz powders, each of which should 1 be taken largely diluted with water. An oc- casional dose of the ‘ Abernethy Medicines’ (see page 2) has also been recommended. Among | antacids, are the bicarbonates and carbonates of potassa and soda, either of which may be taken ) in doses of half a teaspoonful dissolved in water; ' t or if the spirits are depressed, one or two tea- ‘ spoonfuls of spirit of sal volatile will be more appropriate; and in cases accompanied by diar- i rhcea, a little prepared chalk. As bitters, the I compound infusion of orange peel, or of gentian, ' are excellent. As tonics, small doses of bark, or of disulphate of quinine, to which chalybeates may be added, if there is pallor of countenance, or a low pulse, with no disposition to fever or headache. When dyspepsia is complicated with hysteria, hypochondriasis, or chlorosis, the treatment noticed under those heads may be conjoined to that above recommended. When it depends on constipation, or a deficiency of bile, the mildest and most effective of all remedies will he found supplied in inspissated ox-gall. “ In all cases of incipient constipation, ox-gall is a remedy of undoubted efficacy; and even in protracted cases, when hope has almost fled— but where evidences of strangulation are not unequivocally manifested—it should never be omitted by the practitioner. In habitual or chronic constipation, accompanied by indi-