1091 PLASTER. i possible, and by keeping them in a cool tuation. A few, as those of belladonna lid AMMONIACUM WITH MERCUEY, are COm- fionly placed in pots. When kept for any jngth of time, they are all more or less apt ) become hard and brittle, and to lose their dour. When this is the case, they should be ■melted by a gentle heat, and sufficient oil ilded to the mass to restore it to a proper imsistence. j The operation of spreading plasters for use {•quires skill and experience on the part of ^le operator. Various textures are employed 'r the purpose, of which linen or cotton cloth, • leather, are those most generally employed. \lk and satin are used for ‘court plaster.’ I he shape and size must be regulated by the !irt to which they are to be applied. * On the large scale, plasters are spread by eans of a ‘ spreading machine.’ Compound plasters are now much less fre- lently employed in medicine than formerly, lose principally in use are such as afford ■otection to sores and abraded surfaces, and ve support to the parts. A few, however, hich contain acrid, stimulating, and narcotic bstances,and operate as rubefacients, blisters, anodynes, are still retained in the Pharraa- pceias. Plaster of Ac'onite. Syn. Emplasteum ;0NiTi, L. Prep. (Curtis.) Gently evapo- Ite tincture of aconite to the consistence of a ift extract, then spread a very small portion I er the surface of a common adhesive plaster, i cither calico or leather. Mr. Curtis has rongly recommended this plaster in neu- jlgia. A little of the alcoholic extract may i employed instead of that obtained fresh im the tincture. Adhe"rent Plaster. See Soap Plaster impound). [Adhe'sive Plaster. See Resin Plaster, )URT p., &c. Ammoni'acal Plaster. Syn. Dr. Kirk- ND’s VOLATILE PLASTER; EmPLASTRUM ^IHONLE, E. A. HTDROCHLORATIS, L. Prep. like of lead plaster, 1 oz.; white soap (shaved le), i oz.; melt them together, and, when arly cold, add of sal ammoniac (in fine pow- r), 1 dr. Stimulant and rubefacient. Dr. jiris, who highly recommends it in pulmonary ections, employs double the above propor- )n of sal ammoniac. Its efficacy depends the gradual extrication of free ammonia the decomposition of the hydrochlorate, on lich account it is proper to renew the appli- tion of it every 24 hours. Plaster of Ammoni'acum. Syn. Emplas- UM AMMONIACI (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prep. (Ph. L. & E.) Ammoniacum (strained), oz.; dilute acetic acid (distilled vinegar), rt. oz. (9 fl. oz.—Ph. E.) ; dissolve, and, fre- ently stirring, evaporate by a gentle heat, a proper consistence. 2. (Ph. D.) Gum ammoniacum (in coarse wder), 4 oz.; proof spirit, 4 fl. oz. ; dissolve I by the aid of a gentle heat, and evaporate, as before. Obs. This plaster is adhesive, stimulant, and resolvent, and is employed in scrofulous and indolent tumours, white swellings, &c. In the Ph. D. 1826 vinegar of squills was ordered instead of distilled vinegar. Plaster of Ammoniacum with Hemlock. Syn. Emplasteum ammoniaci cum cicuta, L. Prep. (Ph. E. 1744.) Gum ammoniacum, 8 oz.; vinegar of squills, q."s. to dissolve; hem^ lock juice, 4 oz.; gently evaporate, as before. In cancerous and other painful tumours. A better plan is to add 1 dr. of extract of hem- lock to li oz. of strained ammoniacum (pre- viously reduced to a proper consistence with a little distilled vinegai^, melted by a very gentle heat. Plaster of Ammoniacum with Mer’cury. Syn. Emplasteum ammoniaci cum hydrae- GYRO (Ph. L. E. & D.), L. Prep. 1. (Ph. L. & E.) Olive oil, 1 dr.; heat it in a mortar, add of sulphur, 8 gr.; triturate; further add of mercury, 3 oz.; again triturate, and, when the globules are extinguished, add it to ammoniacum (strained). It lb., previously melted by a gentle heat, and mix them well together. 2. (Ph. D.) Prom ammoniacum plaster, 4 oz.; mercurial plaster, 8 oz.; melted together by a gentle heat, and then stirred constantly until nearly cold. 3. (Wholesale.) Take of mercury, 38 oz.; prepared sevum, 5 oz.; triturate, as last, and add the mixture to strained ammoniacum, 10 lb., previously sufficiently softened by a gentle heat. Possesses a fine blue colour, and is quickly made. Obs. This plaster cannot be rolled till con- siderably cooled, and neither this nor the simple plaster must be put into water. It is powerfully discutient, and is applied to indu- rated glands, indolent tumours, &c. An'odyne Plaster. See Opium Plaster, Belladonna p., &c. Antimo"nial Plaster. Syn. Emplasteum ANTIMONIALE, E. ANTIMONII POTASSIO-TAR- TRATis, L. Prep. (U. C. Hosp.) By sprink- ling tartar emetic, in very fine powder, on the surface of a spread Burgundy pitch (or common adhesive) plaster. It has been successfully applied to the nape of the neck, in the scarla- tina of children ; also to the chest, in phthisis; and, with the addition of a little opium, in rheumatic affections of the joints. Aromatic Plaster. Syn. Stomach plaster; Emplasteum aeomaticum, L. Prep. (Ph. D. 1826.) Strained frankincense (thus), 3 oz.; bees' wax, ^ oz.; melt them together, and, when the mass has considerably cooled, add, of pow- dered cinnamon, 6 dr.; oils of allspice and lemons, of each, 2 dr. Stimulant; applied over the stomach in dyspepsia, spasms, nausea, fla- tulence, &c. Camphor, 1 dr., is commonly added. Plaster of Asafoet'ida. Syn. AntiiiysteriC