470 COLTSFOOT—COMBINATION. direct union of the elementary and secondary colours, 6 tertiary colours are formed. He arranges the twelve colours in a circle, like the spokes of a wheel, commencing with the red, and going to the right, thus :—Red, red- orange, orange, yellow-orange, yellow, yellow- green, green, blue-green, blue, blue-violet, violet, red-violet. The chromatic circle is completed by placing 5 shades between the red and red- orange, 5 between the red-orange and orange; and so on between each of the other couples. This chromatic circle of 72 colours is not imaginary, but actually exists, composed of dyed wools. The shades are distinguished by numbers; thus there are red, 1 red, 2 red, 3 red, 4 red, and 5 red, &c. Each of the 72 shades has, moreover, 20 different degrees of depth, from the lightest that can be discerned from pure white to the most intense depth, approaching to brown and black. These degrees of depth are called tones or tints. The addition of these tones to the chromatic circle brings up the number of tints to 1440. To indicate any one of these tints, we have merely to write the number of the shade, and after it the number of the tone, as, for example, ‘ 3 blue-violet, 13 tone.^ By mixing each of the 1440 tints with gray or black, so as to darken it in different degrees, a total of 14,440 colours may be defined. This part of the system is generally regarded as unnecessary. Mr. O’Neill, in his valuable Dictionary of Calico Printing and Dyeing (to which work we refer the reader for a full account of ChevreuTs classification), gives a long list of colours and coloured bodies, which are pretty well defined in common language with the names of the colours, according to this ingenious system. We select from this list the following examples Amber in mass = 2 orange, 12 tone. Amethyst = 5 blue-violet, from 3 to 16 tone. Blood, ox = 1 red, 13 and 14 tones. Butter = yellow-orange, 2 to 3 tone. Carrot = orange, 7 tone. Chocolate in cake =r 5 orange, 18 tone. Emerald = 2 green, 11 tone. Green, apple = 4 yellow-green, 8 tone. Isabelle = 1 yellow-orange. Mauve = 3 violet, 8 tone. Red-lead = yellow-orange, 20 tone. Ruby = red, 11 tone. Yellow, canary = 1 yellow, 6 tone. For notices of Dyes, Pigments, &c., refer to the principal colours. Complementary Colours. Syn. Accident'al COLOUES. Colours are said to be comple- mentary to each other which, by blending together, produce the perception of whiteness. According to Mayer, all colours are produced by the admixture of red, yellow, and blue light, in certain proportions; and by inter- cepting either one or more of these coloured rays in a beam of light, those which meet the eye will consist of the remaining coloured rays of the spectrum. Thus, by intercepting the red rays in a beam of white light, the. remaining yellow and blue rays will produce a green colour; by intercepting the blue rays, the remaining yellow and red will give an orange ; and so on of other cases; so that red and green, blue and orange, are comple- MENTAEY COLOUES. Tf we look for some time, with one eye, on a bright-coloured object, as a wafer, placed on a piece of paper, and subsequently turn the same eye to another part of the paper, a similarly shaped spot or mark will be seen, but the colour will vary, though it will be always the same under like circumstances. Thus, if the original spot or wafer be of a red colour, the imaginary one will be green; if black, it will be white: the imaginary colour being always complementary of that first gazed upon. The colour so perceived is often called an accidental COLOUE, to distinguish it from the real colour. It is a general maxim in design that “ colours look brightest when near their complementary colours.” Drug'gists’ Show 'Colours. See Show Bottles. Flame Colours. See Fiees (Coloured). COLTS'FOOT. This popular herb is the Tussilago farfara of Linnaeus. It is a demul- cent bitter, and is slightly stomachic and tonic. It is much esteemed by the lower classes in coughs, shortness of breath, and other affections of the chest. The leaves form the basis of most of the British herb tobaccos, and have been recommended to be smoked in asthma and difficulty of breathing. Dose. One or two wineglassfuls of the tea or decoc- tion (1 oz. to the pint) ad libitum. COLUM'BIC ACID. See Tantalic Acid. COLUM'BIUM. See Tantalum. COMBINA'TION. In chemistry, the union of dissimilar substances. The great general laws which regulate all chemical combinations admit of being laid down in a manner at once simple and concise. The laws of combination BY WEIGHT are as follows :— “ 1. All chemical compounds are definite in their nature, the ratio of their elements being constant. “ 2. When any body is capable of uniting with a second in several proportions, these pro- portions bear a simple relation to each other. “ 3. If a body. A, unite with other bodies, B, C, D, the quantities of B, C, D, which unite with A, represent the relations in which they unite among themselves, in the event of union taking place. “ 4. The combining quantity of a compound is the sum of the combining quantities of its components.” (Fownes.) There is a remarkable relation between the specific gravity of a body in the gaseous state and its chemical equivalent or combining pro- portion—a relation of such a kind that quan- tities by weight of the various gases, expressed by their equivalents, or, in other w^ords, quau*