835 LIME. I called ‘ SHELL lime’ (calx e testis—Pli. L. 1824). Milk of lime is slaked lime mixed ; up with water, as in the preparation of com- j mon ' WHITEWASH.’ I Prep. Lime is included in the Materia I Medica of the present Ph. L.; by which we , should infer the quicklime of commerce is in- tended, did not the College add “ freshly pre- pared from chalk.” In the Ph. L. 1836 both commercial lime, and lime prepared by burn- ing chalk, broken into small pieces, for 1 hour, I in a very strong fire,” are ordered. The Ph. E. directs small fragments of white •marble to be placed ^‘in a covered crucible, j and kept at a full red-heat for 3 hours, or I until the residuum, when slaked and suspended ; in water, no longer effervesces on the addition of muriatic acid.” Iceland spar, white Car- rara marble, and the black bituminous marble of Derbyshire or Kilkenny, yield nearly pure 1 lime by calcination. Perfectly pure lime can only be obtained by heating to whiteness, in a platinum crucible, a carbonate of lime pre- pared by precipitating nitrate of lime with carbonate of ammonia. Prop. Pure lime has a sp. gr. of about 2’3; it is highly acrid, alkaline, and caustic, and rapidly destroys organic matter in the pre- sence of moisture; it is soluble in 635 parts of water at 32°, but requires 778 parts at 60°, 972 parts at 130°, and 1270 parts at 212° Fahr. for its solution (Wollaston); a pint of water at 32° dissolves 13*25 gr.; at 60°, 11*6 gr.; and at 212°, 6*7 gr. (Phillips); hence, . the propriety of employing cold water for the solution of lime ; exposed to the air, it rapidly attracts carbonic acid, and passes into the state of carbonate (chalk); when strongly i heated, it becomes phosphorescent, and emits jfl a brilliant light; and on this account is some- times employed for illumination, as in the Gurney, or Lime light. Lime readily unites with the acids, and forms salts, nearly all of which may be made by directly neu- tralizing the acid with hydrate or carbonate of lime. They may also be made by double de- composition. I ^ Pur. “Water being added, it crumbles : into powder. It is (entirely) dissolved by dilute hydrochloric acid, without effervescence. Ammonia being added to this solution, in excess, throws down nothing.” (Ph. L.) Tests. 1. The alkaline carbonates, phos- phates, oxalates, and sulphates, occasion white precipitates in solutions of lime. The pre- I cipitates produced by the first three tests are soluble in dilute nitric and hydrochloric acid; that by the last is insoluble in those menstrua, but soluble in a solution of common salt, and IS not reprecipitated by dilute sulphuric acid. I (Wackenroder.) Oxalate of ammonia is the j most delicate test for lime. If the substance I under examination is a solid, it must be dis- I solved by digestion in hydrochloric acid, the j resulting solution filtered, evaporated to dry- I ness, the residuum redissolved in water, and the new solution tested as above.—2. Caustic potassa and ammonia, perfectly free from car- bonic acid, do not disturb solutions of the salts of lime.—3. All the soluble salts of lime tinge the flame of alcohol of an orange colour; but this may be confounded with the colour produced by the salts of strontia. Lime, in solution, is distinguished from baryta by not being precipitated by hydro- fluosilicic acid;—from strontia, by not being precipitated by neutral chromate of potassa;— from alumina and magnesia, by the compara- tive insolubility of its sulphate; and from both baryta and strontia,\>y the liquid being un- affected by a solution of sulphate of lime, and yielding, in weak solutions, a white precipitate with oxalate of ammonia, after the removal of those earths (if present) by the cautious addi- tion of a solution of sulphate of potassa. Estim. The lime may be thrown down by oxalate of ammonia, and the precipitate washed, dried, heated (care being taken not to allow the heat to rise above low redness), and weighed. Each grain of the product (‘carbonate of lime’) is equivalent to *56 gr. of pure lime. Uses. Lime is corrosive, antacid, and depila- tory. It is employed in surgery as a caustic, and in chemistry and pharmacy to make lime water, to render the alkalies caustic, to make several calcareous salts, abstract water from various substances, &c. It is largely used to make mortars and cements, and as a manure in farming, &c. In large doses it is poisonous. The antidotes are, water acidulated with vine- gar or lemon juice, and demulcents. See Calcium. Ac'etate of Lime. Syn. Calcis acetas, L. Prep. 1. Acetic acid is neutralized by pre- pared chalk, and the filtered solution evapo- rated by a gentle heat, and allowed to crys- tallize. Very soluble. Dose. 10 to 20 gr.; as a diuretic in dropsies, &c. 2. (Pyeolignite of lime.) From crude pyroligneous acid and chalk. It is used for making ‘ mordants’ in dyeing and calico- printing, as a substitute for the more expen- sive acetate of LEAD. It is sold both as a solid and in solution. Car'bonate of Lime. Syn. Calcis cae- BONAS, L. A white powder, insoluble in water, but freely soluble in water holding carbonic acid in solution, which thus be- comes temporarily ‘ hard.’ By boiling, the carbonic acid is expelled, and the carbonate again precipitated. See Chalk, Limestone, Maeble, &c. Chlo”ride of Lime. See Hypochloeite of Lime. Chro'mate of Lime. Syn. Calcis cheomas, L. This salt is now used in large quantities as a source of cheomic acid. Prep. (Charles Watt, jun.) The residual liquor of the process of bleaching with chromic acid, which is rich in oxide of chromium, is placed in a wooden vessel, and slaked lime is cautiously added until the sulphuric or hydro-