1053 PERISTALTIC PERSUADERS—PETROLENE. \lver; the filtrate, on evaporation, yields 'cllow crystals (periodate of silver), from hich the acid is obtained by the action of \'ater, which resolves the salt into free pe- lODiC ACID, which remains in solution, and [ito BASIC PERIODATE OF SILVER, which is lisoluble. The solution yields crystals by cau- jious evaporation. ■ Prop., Sfc. Permanent in the air; a strong eat resolves it into iodine and oxygen; it |)rms numerous compounds (periodates) with ibo 1)8.SBS» I PERISTAL'TIC PERSUA'DERS. See Pills Kitchener’s). ; PER'MANEUT WHITE. See Baryta (Sul- ihate) and White Pigments. I PERMANGANIC ACID. Syn. Hyper- ([ANGANic ACID, Manganesic A. This com- ound of manganese and oxygen (M2O-) is est obtained as follows:—Mix hinoxide of langanesp., 8 parts, with chlorate ofpotassa, 7 arts (both in fine powder); add of hydrate of otassa, 10 parts (dissolyed in a little water); vaporate to dryness, and expose the residuum reduced to powder), to a low red heat, in a latinum crucible; dissolve the calcined mass 1 a large quantity of water; decant the clear jlution, evaporate until crystals begin to form n the surface, and set the whole aside to cool, 'he crystals thus obtained are permanganate F POTASSA, from which the acid may be sepa- rated by converting them into permanganate F BARYTA, and by carefully decomposing this alt by dilute sulphuric acid, (Gregory.) Both he acid and its salts possess a fine red or lurple colour, and bleaching properties, and ’ re rapidly decomposed by organic matter, i PERNAMBU'CO WOOD. Syn, Peach wood. L'he wood of Coesalpinia echinata. It consti- tutes the paler variety of Brazil wood used by he dyers. : PEROXTDE. See Nomenclature. PER'RY. Syn. Pyraceum, L. A fermented iquor prepared from pears in the same way as ider is from apples. The red rough-tasted orts are principally used for this purpose, 'he best perry contains about 9g of absolute Icohol; ordinary perry, from 5 to 7g. Perry is a very pleasant-tasted and whole- oine liquor. When bottled ‘ champagne fashion,’ we have seen it frequently passed off or champagne, without the fraud being sus- •ected. PER'SIAN BER'RIES. See French Ber- IIES. PERSPIRA'TION. The liquid or vapour ecreted by the ramifications of the cuticular rteries over the surface of the body. The lerspiratory apparatus consists of a gland leeply seated in the corium, communicating >y means of tubules {pores) with the surface 'f the scarf-skin. Tlie uses of the perspirato7'y functions appear 0 be to preserve the suppleness and sensi- )ility of the skin, to maintain the tempera- ure of the body at a uniform standard, and to remove froin the system a number of com- pounds noxious to animal life. The perspira- tion “ is a fluid whose regularity and continu- ance of exhalation are not merely conducive, but ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY, TO HEALTH ; without such regularity, the animal tempera- ture would run riot, and substances of an in- jurious quality would be allowed to permeate the finest and most delicate of the tissues of the body.” (Eras. Wilson.) “Fi’om the con- striction or constipation of the cutaneous pores by the ambient air, especially when the body, beforehand put into a heat, is suddenly exposed thereunto, the serous particles, which used to fly off continually in vapour, being now pent in, excite an intense and feverish efferves- cence ; till, finding some other passage, either by the kidneys or by the glandules of the nose and windpipe, they are discharged by way of a catarrh ; or, missing this separation, still keep up the ebullition, very often to the hazard of life, by suffocating the vital flame. And this is the natural consequence of ob- structed insensible perspiration, which, in the vulgar phrase, is the same with what they mean by catching cold, and of which, give me leave to remark, that as fevers make two thirds of diseases infesting mankind, according to the computation of the judicious Sydenham, so two thirds of fevers very probably may take their rise from perspiration hindered,’^ (Daniel Turner.) Suppressed perspiration is also one of the commonest causes of diarrhoea, PERU'VIAN BALSAM. See Balsam of Peru {page 262). PERU'VIAN BARK. See Cinchona. PERU'VIN. A light, colourless, oily liquid, produced along with cinnamate of potash by distilling cinnamein with hydrate of potassa. It also occurs under a crystalline form, when it is called styrone. PES'SARY. Syn, Pessum, Pessarium, L. An instrument made of caoutchouc, gutta percha, box-wood, or ivory, inserted into the vagina to support the mouth and neck of the uterus. They are variously formed, to meet the prejudices of the party or the necessities of the case. The cup, conical, globe, and ring pessaries (pessi) are those best known. Medicated pessaries are prepared by adding the active ingredients to a hard cerate, and pressing the mixture into the desired form. Astringents (various), belladonna, acetate of lead, iodine, mercury, opium, &c., have been thus applied by Dr. Simpson and others. PESTTLENCE. See Plague. PESTILENTIAL DISEASES. All those diseases wdiich are epidemic and malignant, and assume the character of a plague. See Cholera, &c. PETTNINE. A basic substance analogous to biethylamine, found by Dr. Anderson in Dippcl’s animal oil. It boils at 175® Fahr. PETONG'. Same as packfong, PET'ROLENE. The pure liquid portion of mineral tar. It has a pale yellow colour, a