TIN, 1274 boiling.—4. Hydrosulphuret of ammonia pro- duces a like brown precipitate, soluble in excess of the precipitant, provided the latter contains an excess of sulphur.—5. Terchloride of gold gives, in the cold, on the addition of a little nitric acid, a precipitate of the purple of Cassius. —6. Bichloride of mercury gives a black pre- cipitate, but in excess it produces a white one. —7. Bichloride of platinum gives an orange- coloured precipitate. The salts of peeoxide of tin behave with reagents as follows:—1. Potassa, ammonia, and their carbonates, give a white precipitate, which is freely soluble in an excess of potassa and in acids, sparingly soluble in excess of am- monia, only very slightly soluble in excess of carbonate of potassa, and insoluble in excess of carbonate of ammonia.—2. Sulphuretted hy- drogen gives, in acid and neutral solutions, a golden-yellow precipitate, either at once or on heating the liquid, which is readily soluble in pure potassa, the alkaline sulphurets, and boiling hydrochloric acid; less soluble in liquor of ammonia, and insoluble in nitric acid.—3. Hydrosulphuret of ammonia gives a similar precipitate, freely soluble in excess of the pre- cipitant, and again precipitated unaltered by acids.—4. A plate of metallic zinc throws down metallic tin, under the form of gray scales or a spongy mass, from solutions free from nitric acid; and from those containing free nitric acid, white hydrated peroxide of tin, or a mixture of the oxide and metal.—5. Bichloride of mercury gives a white precipi- tate.—6. Perrocyanide of potassium gives no precipitate at first, but after a time the whole forms a thick jelly. Assay. Each grain of peroxide of tin (see above), after being washed and gently ignited, is equivalent to ‘78365 gr. of puee tin. The loss of weight represents the impurities. Each gr. of sulphate of lead, so treated, is equiv. to *683 gr. of METALLIC LEAD (nearly). Uses. The uses of tin in the arts are well known. In medicine, 1 to 3 dr. of the filings or powder, made into an electuary with treacle, are sometimes given in tape-worm, for 2 or 3 successive mornings, followed by an aperient. Chlo''rides of Tin. Of these two are known:— 1. Protochlo"ride of Tin. Syn. Chloeide of TIN, Mueiate of T.f; Stanni chloeidum. Stanni mueias, L. Prep. 1. (Anhydbofs.) By transmitting hydrochloric acid gas over grain tin heated in a glass tube; or, better, by distilling a mixture of chloride of mercury and tin in fine powder. Gray; solid; resin- like; fusible; and volatile. 2. (Htdeated.) By digesting granulated tin in hot hydrochloric acid as long as any hydrogen gas is evolved, observing to keep an ex( ess of tin always present, ^h^d as a pow- erful deoxidizing agent. It may be obtained in needle-like crystals by cautious evaporati' n 2. Eichlo"ride of Tin. i^yn. Peechloetde of TIN, PeEMUEIATE of T.f; StaNNI BICHLO- EiDUM, Stanni peemueias, L. Prep, 1. (Liebig.) By dissolving grain tin in a mixture of hydrochloric acid, 2 parts; nitric acid and water, of each, 1 part; (all by volume;) ob- serving to add the tin by degrees, and to allow one portion to dissolve before adding another, as without this precaution the action is apt to become violent, and peroxide of tin to be deposited. (See below). 2. (Anhydeous ; Libavifs’s ffmino li- QIJOE.) By heating protochloride of tin in chlorine gas; or, by distilling a mixture of powdered tin, 1 part, with corrosive sublimate, 3 parts (5 parts—Fownes). A very volatile, colourless, mobile liquid, which fumes in the air, and boils at 248° Fahr.; when mixed with l-3rd of its weight of water, it solidifies to a crystalline mass. Obs. Solution of bichloride of tin is much used by dyers, under the names of ‘ spirits OF TIN,’ ‘DYEE’S SPIEITS,’ ‘TIN MORDANT,' &c., the proportions of the ingredients and the state of dilution being various, according to circumstances or the caprice of the nianu- facturer. A process which has been highly recommended, and which seems preferable to all others, is to prepare a simple solution of the protochloride, and to convert it into a solution of the bichloride, either by the addi- tion of nitric acid and a gentle heat, or by passing chlorine through it. See Tin Mor- dants. I'odides of Tin. 1. (Iodide of tin, Prot- IODIDE OF T.; Stanni iodidum, L.) Granu- lated tin, 2 parts; iodine, 5 parts; heat them together. A fusible, brownish-red, trans- lucent substance, soluble in water. 2. (Peeiodide.) By dissolving hydrated , peroxide of tin in hydriodic acid. Yellow, silky crystals. Oxides of Tin. Of these three are known 1. Protox'ide of Tin. Syn. Oxide of tin ; Stanni oxydfm, L. Prep. Precipitate a solution of protochloride of tin with carbonate of potassa; well wash and dry the powder (hydeated protoxide) at a heat under 196° Fahr., with as little exposure to the air as possible. A white or grayish-white powder, soluble in acids and in the pure fixed alkalies. When heated in an atmosphere of carbonic acid it loses its w’ater, and changes to a dense, olack powder, which is the anhydrous phot- oxide. In this state it is nearly insoluble in acids; kindled in the air, it burns like tinder, producing the binoxide. 2. Sesquioxide of Tin. Syn. Stanni se9- QUIOXYDUM, L. Obtained by mixing fresh, moist hydrated peroxide of iron w'ith a solution of the neutral protochloride of tin. It falls as a gray, slimy precipitate, which is soluble in hydrothloric acid and ammonia. (Fuchs.) 3. Eincx'ide of Tin. Syn. Peroxide op tin, Stannic acid; Stanni binoxydum, L. Prep. 1. (Hydrated.) liy adding potassa or an alkaline carbonate to u solution of perch tor ide of tin. Soluble in acids and pure alkalies.