ALCOHOL. 60 tive and convenient as ‘ lime ’ for the above purpose; as, unless the process be arrested when little more than one-half of the dry spirit is distilled off, water is apt to pass over with it. 2. Commercial Alcohol :— a. (Alcohol, Ph. L. 1836.) Take of rectified spirit (sp. gr. 0*838), 1 gal.; chloride of calcium, 1 lb.; proceed as above, and distil 7 pints and 5 li. oz. Sp. gr. of product 0*815. It contains about 7^ of water, by weight; and 5g by volume. b. (Alcohol, Ph. D. 1826.) Rectified spirit, 1 gal.; pearl-ashes (dried and still hot), 3^ lb.; mix, digest in a covered vessel, with frequent agitation, for seven days; then decant the clear portion, and add to it of chloride of cal- cium, 1 lb.; agitate to effect solution, and distil off the spirit until the mixture in the retort begins to thicken. Sp. gr. of product, 0*810. It contains about 5^ of water, by weight. c. (Mr. Hyde.) Alcohol (of 85g or 90^) is mixed with about 1^ ^ of manganate of potassa or soda, dissolved in a very small quantity of water, and then submitted to careful distilla- tion. By this means the ‘ amyl-alcohol' is converted into valerianic acid, and the other oils present undergo a similar change, the acids produced remaining combined with the alkali liberated by the decomposition of the manganate; while the alcohol does not undergo conversion into acetic acid unless an excessive quantity of the manganate be used, but distils over pure and odourless. (Pa- tented, 1856.) d. (Without distillation.)—1. Rectified spirit is agitated, in a closed vessel, with anhydrous carbonate of potassa (prepared by heating the ‘ salt ’ to redness, and still slightly warm), until the powder sinks to the bottom undis- solved ; the carbonate is then added in consi- derable excess, and the agitation repeated at short intervals for some hours or even days; lastly, after sufficient repose, the clear upper portion is decanted.—Obs. If a clean spirit, and pure carbonate of potassa (or at least one perfectly free from caustic potassa or any other impurity soluble in strong spirit), be used, an alcohol sufficiently pure and free from water for many common purposes may be thus ob- tained; otherwise the product contains a little potassa, &c., which can only be removed by distillation. For some purposes, however, this would not be objectionable. Sp. gr. about •812. 2. (Soemmering.—Vaexish-maker’s al- cohol.) The bladder of an ox or calf, thoroughly cleansed from fat, and washed and dried, is nearly filled with rectified spirit, and then securely fastened and suspended in any dry situation, at a temperature of about 122^^ Fahr. In from six to twelve hours, when the heat is properly maintained, the spirit is generally sufficiently concentrated, and in a little time longer is rendered nearly free from water (‘ anhydrous ’), or of the strength of 96 to 98^.—Obo. The same bladder will serve for more than one hundred operations. If noi kept very nearly full, a portion of the spirit A, A bottle witli two Decks, the uppei* furnished with a ground-glass stopper. B, Loop of cord to hang the apparatus up by. C, Bladder containing spirit, filled by means of the bottle A. A Neck of bladder accu- rately secured to the under neck of the bottle A. escapes through the empty part. To prevent this accident, a bottle with a double neck, of the shape represented in the engr., may be employed; by which means the bladder may be kept constantly full during the process. After the first or second time of using, the bladder gives alcohol sufficiently pure for all ordinary purposes. Before hanging the appa- ratus up, it is better to enclose it in a coarse potato-netting, to prevent any accident arising from the strain on the neck of the bladder. Soemmering recommends both the inside and outside of the dry bladder to be smeared over 2 or 3 times with a strong solution of isinglass ; but this is not necessary to the success of the process. Prop. Light, transparent, colourless; highly volatile and inflammable, burning with a pale blue and smokeless flame; very mobile; odour, agreeable; taste, strong and pungent; miscible in all proportions with water, with the evolution of heat, and temporary expansion, but ultimate condensation of the mixture, some hours elaps- ing before the union is complete, and the normal temperature restored. The mixture has a higher sp. gr. than the mean of its constituents; and this is greatest when 54 volumes of alcohol are mixed with 49*77 vol. of water, the result- ing compound measuring only 100 volumes.^ It absorbs water from moist air; dissolves resins, essential oils, camphor, bitumen, soaps, sugar, carbonic and boracic acid, iodine and the iodides, lime, ammonia, soda, potassa, the alkaloids, wax and spermaceti (when boiling), all the deliquescent salts {except ‘carbonate of potassa’), and various other substances. It curdles milk, coagulates albumen, and (in quantity) separates both starch and gum from their mucilages. It boils, in the air, at 173° ’ Tlie increase in volume of nii.xtures of alcohol and water, when the latter is in excess, noticed by R^niurd and Tliillayc, is apjjarent, not real, and disap})ears, with actual condensation, after some hours.