374 BUTTER. 1 usual amount of oil and fatty matter taken with our food. . Manvf. The process of maJcing butter by the common operation of ‘churning’ is extremely simple, and is well known. Tlie chief objects to attend to, are maintaining a proper tem- perature, and a certain degree of exposure to the air. Extreme cleanliness must also he observed; the churn and other utensils being frequently scalded out with water. AVhen the butter is ‘ come,’ it should be put into a fresh- scalded pan, or tub, which has been standing in cold water, cold water poured on it, and after it has acquired some hardness, it should be well beaten with a flat board until not the least taste of the buttermilk remains, and the water, which must be often changed, becomes quite colourless and tasteless. A little salt may then be w'orked into it •, after which it may be weighed and made into ‘ forms,’ which should then be thrown into cold water con- tained in an earthen pan provided with a cover. In this way nice and cool butter may be ob- tained in the hottest weather. At Dumbarton, the newly separated butter is put into a clean vessel, and a corn sickle is drawn several times crosswise through it, to extract any hairs that may adhere to it. This operation is performed in very cold spring- Avater, and is followed by thoroughly washing it therein. 10 oz. of salt are now added to every stone-weight of the butter, and well mixed in. In Devonshire, the milk is generally scalded in copper-pans over a charcoal or wood fire, and the cream collected as soon as it rises, or, and more frequently, when the whole has got cold. It is then churned in the usual Avay. On the small scale, the butter is commonly obtained from this cream by patiently Avorking it Avith the hand in a shalloAv pan or tub. Without care the cream is apt to absorb some of the fames from the charcoal, Avhich impart a pecu- liar taste to the butter. This is the reason Avhy some of the Devonshire butter has a slight ‘ smoky flavour.’ It may be removed by tho- 'rough Avashing in cold water. Of late years, in the large daii’y-farms of Devonshire, covered flues, Avith ‘ openings’ to receive the bottoms of the pans, have superseded open fires, by Avhich the danger of contamination from the ‘ fumes’ is removed. Choice. Fresh butter has a pleasant buty- raceoiAS smell, and is of an equal colour through- out its substance. If it smells sour, the but- termilk has not been well Avashed out; and if it is streaked or veiny, it is probably mixed Avith stale butter or lard. A good Avay to try butter is to thrust a knife into it, Avhich should not smell rancid and unpleasant Avhen Avith- drawn. Rancid and stale butter, when eaten in quantity, is capable of producing dangerous symptoms. Pur. The cheaper kinds of butter are fre- quently adulterated with common wheat-fiour, oatmeal, pea-fiour, lard, 8^'c., as Avell as Avith a large quantity of salt and water. The trick i is concocted betAveen the Irish factors and the i London dealers. The higher priced article is t seldom mixed with any thing beyond an excess ) of salt and Avater, notwithstanding the as- i sertions of alarmists to the contrary. The f presence of lard may be detected by the flavour ' and paleness of the colour. A little of the sample adulterated with the other substances 1 named, if melted in a glass tube or phial, Avill i separate into strata, Avhich are very marked i Avhen cold. Pres. 1. Melt the butter in a stoneware \ or a well-glazed earthen-pan set in a water- i bath at a heat not exceeding 180° Fahr., and keep it heated, skimming it from time to time, until it becomes quite transparent ; then pour otf the ‘clear portion’ into another vessel, and cool it as quickly as possible, by placing the vessel in A^ery cold Avater or ice. This is the method employed by the Tartars who supply the Constantinople market. In this state it may be preserved perfectly fresh for 6 or 9 months, if kept in a close vessel and a cool place. This is the plan so strongly recom- mended by M. Thenard. Mr. Eaton states that butter melted by the ‘Tartarian method,’ and then salted by ‘ ours,’ will keep good and fine-tasted for tAVo years. 2. Saltpetre and white sugar, of each, 1 oz.; best Spanish great-salt (or Cheshire large- grained salt), 2 oz.; all in very fine poAvder; mix thoroughly, and add 1 oz. of this mixture to every lb. of butter, and thoroughly incor- porate them together. The butter thus pre- pared is then to be tightly pressed into clean glazed earthenware-vessels (or well-seasoned casks), so as to leave no vacuities. This jilan is recommended by Dr. Anderson, aa’Iio declares that “ butter so prepared will keep in a cool . place for years; and Avill bear a voyage to the i East Indies, if packed (stoAved) so as not to " melt.” It does not taste well before it has stood for three or four Aveeks, after which it acquires a rich marrow-like flaA'our, Avhich no other butter ever possesses. A good method to preserve the butter from the air, is to fill the ‘ pots’ to within an inch of the top, then to lay on it some coarse-grained salt to the depth of a i to i an inch, and lastly to cover each pot Avith a slate, plate, or other flat arti- cle. The salt by long keeping runs to brine, which form an air-tight layer on the top of the butter, and may at any time be very easily re- moved by turning the pot on one side. 3. Fresh butter, 21 lb.; salt, 1 lb.; salt- petre, 1 oz. These are the common proportions I for the best salt-butter of the shops. 4. Fresh butter, 18 lb. ; salt, 1 lb.; saltpetre, f 1^0^, ; honey ov fine brown-sugar, 2oz. Supe- i rior to No. 3. Concl. Remarks. It may be useful to knOAV i that rancid butter may be restored, or, in all f cases greatly improved, by melting it in a ‘Avater-bath’ with s,ovL\e fresh-burnt and coarsely powdered afiimgl charcoal (AAdiich has been tho-