884 MANURES. roots from the soil. The kiteogen of vege- tables is derived chiefly, if not exclusively, from ammonia, which is supplied to them in rain, and in manures, and which remains in the soil till absorbed by the roots. According to the celebrated ‘ mineeal theoey’ of agriculture, advanced by Liebig, a soil is fertile or barren for any given plant according as it contains those mineral sub- stances that enter into its composition. Thus, “ the ashes of wheat-straw contain much silica and potassa, whilst the ashes of the seeds con- tain phosphate of ammonia and magnesia. Hence, if a soil is deficient in any one of these, it will not yield wheat. On the other hand, a good crop of wheat will exhaust the soil of these substances, and it will not yield a second crop till they have been restored, either by manure or by the gradual action of the weather in disintegrating the subsoil. Hence the benefit derived from fallows and from the rotation of crops. ‘‘When, by an extraordinary supply of any one mineral ingredient, or of ammonia, a large crop has been obtained, it is not to be expected that a repetition of the same indivi- dual manure next year will produce the same effect. It must be remembered that the un- usual crop has exhausted the soil probably of all the other mineral ingredients, and that they also must be restored before a second crop can be obtained. “ The salt most essential to the growth of the potato is the double phosphate of ammonia and magnesia; that chiefly required for hay is phosphate of lime; while for almost all plants potassa and ammonia are highly bene- ficial.^^ From these principles we “ may deduce a few valuable conclusions in regard to the chemistry of agriculture. First, by examining the ashes of a thriving plant., we discover the mineral ingredients which must exist in a soil to render it fertile for that plant. Secondly, by examining a soil, we can say at once whe- ther it is fertile in regard to any plants the ashes of which have been examined. Thirdly, when we know the defects of a soil, the defi- cient matters may be easily obtained and added to it, nnmixed with such as are not required. Fourthly, the straw, leaves, &c., of any plant, are the best manure for that plant, since every vegetable extracts from the soil such matters alone as are essential to it. This important principle has been amply verified by the suc- cess attending the use of wheat-straw, or its ashes, as manure for wheat, and of the clip- pings of the vines as a manure for the vine- yard. When these are used (in the proper quantity),no other manure isrequired. Fifthly, in the rotation of crops, those should be made to follow which require different materials; or a crop wdiich extracts little or no mineral matter, such as peas, should come after one which exhausts the soil of its phosphates and potassa(Liebig.) The experiments of Messrs. Lawes and Gil- bert have forced upon them opinions differing from those of Baron Liebig on some important points in relation to his ‘ mineral theory,’ which endeavours to prove that “ the crops on a field diminish or increase in exact proportion to the diminution or increase of the mineral sub- stances conveyed to it in manure.” The re- ’ suits obtained by the English investigators ap- pear to prove that it is impossible to get good crops by using mineral manures alone, and that I nitrogenous manures (farm-yard manui’e, guano, ammoniacal salts, &c.) are fertilizing agents of the highest order. Of the chemical manures now so much used, BONE-DTJST is, perhaps, the most important, as it supplies the phosphates which have been ex- tracted by successive crops of grass and corn, the whole of the bones of the cattle fed on these crops having been derived from the soil; its gelatin also yields ammonia by putrefaction. Geano acts as a source of ammonia, contain- ing much oxalate and urate of ammonia, with some phosphates. Nightsoil and tjeine, es- pecially the latter, are most valuable for the ammonia they yield, as well as for phosphates and potassa ; but are very much neglected in this country, although their importance is fully appreciated in Belgium, France, and China. Niteate oe soda is valued as a source of nitrogen. All organic substances may be employed as manures ; preference being, however, given to those abounding in nitrogen, and which rea- dily decay w'hen mixed with the soil. The analysis of manures, soils, and the ashes \ of plants, for the purpose of ascertaining their | composition and comparative value, is not easily performed by inexperienced parties; but a rough approximation to their contents, sufficiently accurate for all practical purposes, may be generally made by such persons witli proper care and attention. See AGEicrLxrEE, Bone-ddst, Gtjano, &c. Artificial Manures. Various formula) be- longing to this head will be found dispersed, under their respective names, throughout this work. The following are additional ones :— 1. (Anderson.) Sulphate of ammonia, com- mon salt, and oil of vitriol, of each, 10 parts; chloride of potassium, 15 parts; gypsum and sulphate of potassa, of each, 17 parts; sail- pelre, 20 parts; crude Epsom salts, 25 parts; sulphate of soda, 33 parts. For clover. 2. (Huxtable.) Crude potash, 28 lb. ; com- mon salt, 1 cwt.; bone-dust and gypsum, of each, 2 cwt.; wood-ashes, 15 bushels. For either corn, turnips, or grass. 3. (Johnstone.) Sulphate of soda (dry), 11 lb.; wood-ashes, 28 lb. ; common salt, f cwt.; crude sulphate of ammonia, 1 cwt.; bone-dust, 7 bushels. As a substitute for guano. 4. (Lawes’ ‘ Supeephosphate.’) See Co- PEOLITE; 5. (Feetilizixg powdee.) a mixture of very fine bone-dust, 18 parts; calcined gypsum\