SARCOCOLLA—SARSAPARILLA. 1185 |/ion of hot diluted alcohol on the I'oot of \vonaria officinalis (Linn.), or soap wort. It Sarates as the solution cools, and may be Iritied, by re-solution, and digestion with a Ifcle animal charcoal. \Prop., fyc. Saponin is soluble in hot water, ji the solution froths strongly on agitation, je smallest quantity of the powder causes' ilent sneezing. Another substance absurdly led ‘saponine’ is noticed at page 679. jSARCOCOL'LA. A gum-resin supposed to j derived from one or more plants of the jnral order Renceacece, growing in Arabia il Persia. It somewhat resembles gum bic, except in being soluble in both water 1 alcohol, and in having a bitter-sweet te. It was formerly used in surgery. JAE'COSINE. A basic substance, obtained 1 boiling kreatine for some time with a solu- i of pure baryta. It forms colourless, trans- ent plates, freely soluble in water, sparingly in alcohol, and insoluble in ether; it may fused and volatilized. ARSAPARIL'LA. Syn. Radix sarz.e, DIX SARSAPARILLiE, SaRZA (Ph. L. & E.), iSAPARiLLA (Ph. D. & U. S.), L. “Jamaica la. The root of Smilax officinalis, Kunth ” . L.); “ and probably of other species.” .E.) 'he sarsaparillas of commerce are divided Dr. Pereira into two classes:—‘ Mealy SAPARTLLAS ’ and ‘ NON-MEALY SARSAPA- LAs.’ In the first are placed Brazilian Lisbon, Caraccas or gouty Vera Cruz, Honduras ; the second includes Jamaica, IltA, and TRUE Vera Cruz. I he mealy sarsaparillas are distinguished by “[e mealy character of the inner cortical hbrs, which are white or pale-coloured. The n 1 or starch is sometimes so abundant, that a[Ower of it, in the form of white dust, falls ^|n we fracture the roots.” The medulla ith is also frequently very amylaceous, he non-mealy sarsaparillas “ are charac- ?ed by a deeply coloured (red or brown), illy non-mealy, cortex. The cortex is red, much thinner than in the mealy sorts.” a drop of oil of vitriol be applied to a sverse section of the root of the non- ly sarsaparillas, both cortex and wood ire a dark-red or purplish tint /” whilst in preceding varieties, the mealy coat, and, Jtimes, the pith, is but little altered in ir. “ The decoction of non-mealy sarsa- la, when cold, is somewhat darkened, but not yield a blue colour when a solution of ‘0 le is added to it.” The aqueous extract, i rubbed down with a little cold distilled r in a mortar, does not yield a turbid d, nor become blue on the addition of le. The reverse is the case with the de- ^ on and extract of the mealy varieties, le Jamaica, red Jamaica, or red- '.DED SARSAPARILLA (SaRZA JaMAICENSIS L D.), is the variety which should alone sed in medicine. This kind yields from 31 33 to 44g of its weight of extract (Battley, Hennell, Pope), and contains less starchy matter than the other varieties. It is dis- tinguished by exhibiting the above pecu- liarities in a marked degree, by the dirty reddish colour of its bark, which “is not mealy,” and by being beset very plentifully with rootlets” (fibres).—Ph. L. Its powder has also a pale reddish-brown colour. The other varieties of sarsaparilla, viz., the Lisbon, Lima, Vera Cruz, and Honduras, are fre- quently substituted for the Jamaica by the druggists in the preparation of the decoctions and extracts of this drug; but the products are vastly inferior in quantity, colour, taste, and medicinal virtue, to those prepared from the officinal sarsaparilla. Decoction of sarsa- parilla, when made with the Honduras root, is very liable to ferment, even by a few hours’ exposure, in hot weather. We have seen hogs- heads of the strong decoction, after exposure for a single night, in as active a state of fer- mentation as a gyle of beer, with a frothy head, and evolving a most disagreeable odour, that was not wholly removed by several hours’ boiling. When this occurs the decoction suffers in density, and the product in extract is, consequently, considerably lessened. Yet this is frequently allowed to occur in the wholesale laboratory, where the rule should be —always begin a ^ bath of sarza* (as it is called), and, indeed, of other perishable ar- ticles, early in the morning, and finish it, com- pletely and entirely, the same day. Sarsaparilla has been recommended as a mild but efficacious alterative diaphoretic and tonic. It has long been a popular remedy in chronic rheumatism, rheumatic and gouty pains, scurvy, scrofula, syphilis, secondary syphilis, lepra, psoriasis, and several other skin diseases; and, especially, in cachexia, or a general bad habit of body, and to remove the symptoms arising from the injudicious use of mercurials, often falsely called ‘ secondary syphilis.’ During its use the skin should be kept warm, and diluents should be freely taken. Its efficacy has been greatly exaggerated. It is, however, much more effective in warm than in northern climates. Dose. In sub- stance, ^ to 1 dr., three or four times daily; but, preferably, made into a decoction or in- fusion. The articles so much puffed under the names of American or United States sar- saparilla and EXTRACT OF SARSAPARILLA are “ nothing more than the decoction of a common herb, a sort of ‘aralia,’ inhabiting the swamps and marshes of the United States. When cut up it has the appearance of chaff, but not the slightest resemblance in character, colour, or taste, to even the most inferior species of smilax (or sarza). The decoction is sweetened with a little sugar, ffavoured with benzoin and sassafras, and, finally, preserved from decomposition, by means of the bichloride of mercury.” “ I have heard of several cases 75