Special Collections Cookery Camden A dLh 30106022779291 [ly recommended for 1 it is perfectly pure, 2 sensitive skin, nor makes Children feel fter their bath, and l brightness of their reserved. Insist on having P EARS’550 869541 ADVERTISEMENTS London Borough of C Swiss Cottage Library Tel: 01 88 Avenue Road Extensic LONDON . - Book-Re amden ?78 4444 ns: newals 3021 Library 3012 e stamped e book is not ies) oks at 9.30-5 NW3 3HA -pa ^^^ >gi)dihg IRESt soCh This book is dtte for return on or before the dat below. The period of loan can be extended if th reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilit Fines are charged on overdue bo Lending Library hours Mon-Fri 9.30-8 S [ :i * f i i rj Ur\'A Li In ' * / U;rt.j LA 105 / *ADVERTISEMENTS. % XJSE ^LIEBIG COMPANY’S ' EXTRACT OF MEAT For Forty pounds BEEF TEA of prime and for lean Beef Strengthening are used in and improving • J () ' South America the flavour of l to make SOUPS, i one pound of SAUCES, Extract; GRAVIES, the value of and which MADE DISHES. in England would be about Every Jar should bear the thirty shillings. above signature PERFECT PURITY in blue ABSOLUTELY across the label. GUARANTEED. COOKERY BOOKS sent free on application to Liebig’s Extract of Meat Company, Limited, 9, FENCHURCH AVENUE, LONDON, E.C.THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL OF COOKERY, BUCKINGHAM PALACE ROAD, S.W. Artizan Recipes TO ILLUSTRATE THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY. LONDON: PRINTED AND PUBLISHED FOR MRS. CHARLES CLARKE, THE LADY SUPERINTENDENT OF THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, By WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, Limited, 13, CHARING CROSS, S.W. 1896. All Rights Reserved. PRICE SIXPENCE (nett).LONDON' : PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, Limited, STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS* L w 1 i t i '* •~l -AMDEN PUBLiC LiBRARlFS |INTRODUCTION. The Recipes in this little book are intended for the use of our Students who are training for the Plain Cookery Diploma granted by this Committee. They are put together as shortly as possible, giving just the materials and the mode of work only, because all matter relating to the “ reason why,” and the principles of which the recipes are but the outline, are given in full detail in the Demonstration Lessons of the Staff Teachers, notes of which are taken by the Pupils. I wish it to be clearly under- stood that these Artizan Recipes are not intended for the use of the poor people in their own homes, but for those who go out to teach the people. I have always worked upon the principle that the Teachers should be taught the best way of preparing each dish, knowing that those who are most thoroughly masters of their subject make the best Teachers, imparting instruction in the simplest and easiest manner, and adapting their lessons to the circumstances they find themselves placed in. January, 1896. B 2S'cuv T86954KARTIZAN RECIPES LESSON I, Bone Stock. Ingredients. Two pounds of Bones. Two quarts of Water (cold). Salt. Half teaspoonful of Sweet Herbs. Twelve Peppercorns. One small Carrot. Half small Turnip. One Onion. One Stalk of Celery or half teaspoonful of Celery Seeds. Four Cloves. Mode of Work.—Wipe the bones; remove fat or marrow, break in small pieces. Put bones in a saucepan with the water and the salt. Bring slowly to the boil, and remove the scum. Wash, peel, and scrape the vegetables, add them and spices. Boil for four hours. Strain through sieve into a bowl. When cold, remove fat. Meat Stock. Ingredients. Two pounds Shin of Beef. Three pints of Water (cold). Salt. One Onion. Four Cloves. One blade of Mace. One small Carrot. Half small Turnip. One stalk of Celery or half teaspoonful of Celery Seeds. One bunch of Herbs. Twelve Peppercorns.6 Mode of Work.—Cut the meat into small pieces; remove fat and crack the bone. Place in a saucepan with cold water and salt. Bring to the boil, remove scum, add vegetables and spices. Simmer for four hours. Skim occasionally. Strain, when cold remove fat. Vegetable Stock. Ingredients. One Carrot. Half Turnip. One Onion. One stalk of Celery. Two quarts of Pot Liquor or Water (boiling). Half ounce of Fat. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Prepare the vegetables, cut them into dice. Melt fat, and steam vegetables in the fat for five minutes, taking care not to brown them. Add boiling pot liquor or water and salt. Boil without the lid until reduced to one quart. Strain, rub vegetables through a sieve, add more salt and the pepper. Potato Soup. Ingredients. One pound of Potatoes. Half pint of Skim Milk. One ounce of Fat. Salt and Pepper. Two small Onions. One dessertspoonful of Sago. Two Cloves. One and a half pints of boiling Water. Mode of Work.—Wash and peel the potatoes; cut into slices, put into a saucepan with the fat (melted) and sliced onion. Simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. Cover with boiling water or pot liquor, simmer till the potatoes are tender (about thirty minutes). Rub through a wire sieve or colander. Return to saucepan, add sago, and boil till clear. Add milk, salt and pepper. Re-heat.7 Lentil Soup. Ingredients« Half pound of Lentils (Red). One Carrot. Two Cloves. One and a half ounces of Fat. One tablespoonful of Flour (for thickening). Two quarts of cold Water. One small bunch of Herbs. Three small Onions. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Wash lentils well in several waters; if possible, soak overnight. Slice onions, cut up the carrot into small pieces. Put lentils, onions, carrots, herbs and cloves into a saucepan, with the cold water. Boil for one hour, strain through a coarse sieve. Melt the fat, add flour, pepper and salt, then the soup gradually. Re-heat. Pea Soup. Ingredients. Half pound of Split Peas. One Cairot. One Turnip. Two Onions. One stick of Celery. One ounce of Dripping. Two quarts of Pot Liquor (cold). Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Soak the peas overnight. Melt the dripping, put in the peas and sliced vegetables, steam for ten minutes. Add pot liquor, boil for two and a half hours. When peas are quite soft rub through sieve. Return to saucepan, add pepper and salt, and serve with powdered mint. Note.—The liquor in which ham or bacon has been boiled is to be preferred for pea soup, if not too salt.8 Carrot Soup. Ingredients. Three good sized Carrots. One quart of Stock. Half Onion. Half teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. Half ounce of Fat. Two ounces of lean Bacon. One sprig of Parsley. Pepper and Salt. Mode ok Work.—Wash and grate the carrots. Slice the onion; cut up bacon. Melt fat, steam bacon, onion and carrots for five minutes. Add stock or water, and parsley. Simmer for one hour. Press vegetables through sieve, removing parsley. Return to saucepan, adding seasonings. Boil up. N.B.—If fat bacon is used no fat is required. Tomato Soup. Ingredients. Half a quart tin of Tomatoes (or four fresh ones). One Onion. One Carrot. One Turnip. Two Cloves. One ounce of Fat. One ounce of Flour. One pint of Water. Half pint of Milk. Seasonings. Mode of Work.—Slice carrot, turnip, and onion ; put these with half tin of tomatoes, cloves and water, into a saucepan. Simmer gently for one hour. Pass through a sieve. Melt fat, stir in flour; fry gently, taking care not to brown ; add milk gradually. When boiling pour in the soup. Re-heat and season. N.B.—If fresh tomatoes are used more water will be required.9 Scotch Broth. Ingredients. Two pounds of Neck of Mutton, or Shin of Beef. One Carrot. One Turnip. One Onion. Two ounces of Pearl Barley. Two quarts of cold Water. Half small Cabbage. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Wash the barley, put into a saucepan with the meat and water. Boil for one hour. Add carrot, turnip, onion, and cabbage, which should be thinly sliced. Boil for one and a half hours, skimming frequently. Season with pepper and salt. Remove meat from the saucepan, cut up into small pieces, taking away the bone, and return to soup just before serving, at the same time adding parsley. Clarified Fat. Ingredients. Three pounds of Fat (cooked and uncooked). Cold Water to cover. Mode of Work.—Cut up the fat into pieces about half inch square. Put into a saucepan; cover with cold water and bring to the boil. Skim carefully. Care must be taken that the fat does not burn. It must be kept over the fire until the pieces are slightly brown. Cool and strain. The slightest smell indicates over-cooking. Pot-au-feu. Ingredieiits. Two pounds of Beef. One Parsnip. One Turnip. One Carrot Half a small Cabbage. One Onion and two Cloves. One Leek. One ounce of Sago or Tapioca. Two sticks of Celery. Two sprigs of Parsley. One Bay-leaf, Sweet Herbs. Pepper and Salt.IO Mode of Work.—Put two quarts of water into a saucepan with the meat and half a teaspoonful of salt. When boiling, skim well. Simmer for one hour, add all the vegetables except the cabbage, also cloves and herbs. Boil for two hours. Tie the cabbage together and add this. Simmer for one hour to cook the cabbage. Dish the meat and garnish with the vegetables; serving the cabbnge separately. Strain liquor, cool, and remove the fat. Return to saucepan, add the sago, and boil fifteen minutes, stirring all the while. Season well. Fish Soup. Ingredients. One small Haddock or Plaice. Two sticks of Celery. One quart of Water (cold). Six Peppercorns. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. One Onion. Salt. One ounce of Fat. One ounce of Flour. Half pint of Milk. Mode of Work.—Skin and fillet the fish, put the bones, fish and skin into a saucepan with the water, add celery, peppercorns, onion, and salt. Simmer for three-quarters of an hour, then strain. Blend the fat and flour together in the saucepan, add the milk, then the stock. Boil up. Divide the fish into small pieces, lay these in the soup. Simmer for six or seven minutes. Sprinkle in the chopped parsley. Serve.LESSON II ROAST MEAT. Beef. Ingredients. Two pounds of Topside of Beef. One ounce of Fat. Quarter pint of hot Stock or Water. Flour to cover surface. Mode ok Work.—Wipe the meat, tie with string. Spread lean part with fat, and dredge with flour. Place in Dutch oven or hang in a meat screen in front of the fire. Expose to great heat for ten minutes, then cook less quickly. Baste frequently. Cook for three-quarters of an hour. Remove to hot dish, drain the fat from the dripping tin into a basin. Add a quarter of a pint of stock or water to brown particles in the pan. Boil up, season, and strain round the joint. For roasting allow a quarter of an hour to the pound, and a quarter of an hour over. BAKED MEAT. Pork. Ingredients. Two pounds of Breast of Pork. Two Onions. Two tablespoonsful of Breadcrumbs. One dessertspoonful of Sage. Seasoning. Mode of Work.—Parboil onions, chop finely, mix with sage,12 breadcrumbs and seasoning. Bone pork, spread flat on board, put forcemeat over smoothly. Roll up, tie with string. Dredge with flour, and bake for one hour. Make gravy as for roast meat, using stock made from bones. Serve with apple sauce. Veal. Ingredients. Two pounds of Breast of Veal. Four tablespoonsful of Breadcrumbs. One tablespoonful of Suet. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of Sweet Herbs. Half teaspoonful of Lemon Rind. Fat for basting. One Egg. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.-—Bone the veal. Spread flat on board. Make forcemeat with breadcrumbs, etc. Spread this over the meat. Roll up, tie with string. Lightly dredge with flour, and bake for one hour, basting frequently. Serve with thickened gravy, making stock from the bones. Garnish with fried bacon. BOILED MEAT. Ingredients. Fresh. One pound of Neck of Mutton. Boiling Water to cover. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Salt. One pound of Pork or Beef. Cold Water to cover. Mode of Work.—Wipe fresh meat, wash salt meat. Put in the water, bring to boiling point, and remove scum. Add one vegetable of each kind. Simmer gently. For fresh meat allow twenty minutes to the pound and twentyi3 minutes over; if salt meat, twenty-five minutes to the pound and twenty-five minutes over. Serve fresh meat with parsley or caper sauce. Salt meat with vegetables and dumplings. Ragout of Veal or Rabbit. Ingredients. Half pound of Veal or half a small Rabbit. Quarter pound of Bacon. One tablespoonful of Flour. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Half pint of Water. Quarter teaspoonful of Pepper. If Rabbit, one small Onion. Mode of Work.—Wash, wipe, and dry the pieces of rabbit, or wipe the veal. Heat the frying-pan, and fry the bacon thinly sliced. Remove to a plate. Mix together flour, pepper and salt, and roll the pieces of meat in this mixture. Fry them in the bacon fat. When brown, remove, and add remainder of flour and seasoning, brown and pour in the water. Boil well, replace meat, simmer gently for one and a half hours. Put bacon in ten minutes before dishing. If onion used, should be chopped and browned in the fat before adding the flour. STEWED MEAT. Stewed Rabbit. Ingredients. One Rabbit. Three ounces of Bacon. Quarter pint of Milk. Two Onions. One tablespoonful of Flour. Two Cloves. Salt, Water and Pepper. Mode of Work.—Cut the rabbit into neat pieces. Split the14 head, and allow that and the neck to soak in salt water to draw out blood. Wash rabbit and place in a saucepan with onions, cloves and bacon (cut into small pieces) and sufficient cold water to cover. Simmer gently for one and a half hours. Mix flour, salt and pepper with the milk, add carefully to the rabbit and boil for five minutes. After cutting up the bacon, pour a little boiling water over it to remove salt. Exeter Stew! and Savoury Balls. Ingredients. Meat. Half pound of Gravy Beef. Half tablespoonful of Vinegar. Half ounce of Fat. One small chopped Onion. Half ounce of Flour. Half pint of cold Water. Salt and Pepper. Savoury Balls. Quarter pound of Flour. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Quarter teaspoonful of Pepper. Three sprigs of chopped Parsley. Ounce and a half of Suet, chopped. Quarter teaspoonful of Sweet Herbs. Mode of Work.—Cut the meat into four pieces, dip in the vinegar. Melt the dripping in an iron saucepan, when hot, put in the onion sliced ; fry golden brown. Sprinkle in the flour; add water and boil up. Then put the meat in, cover, and simmer gently for two hours. To Make Savoury Balls.—Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together, put into a basin with other dry ingredients, and add enough cold water to make into a stiff paste. Divide into twelve pieces, make into balls and drop them into the gravy three- quarters of an hour before the stew is done. Season gravy and serve.15 Sea Pie. Ingredients. Half pound of Shin of Beef. Two Onions. Half ounce of Fat. Half ounce of Flour. Pepper, Salt and Water. Carrot and Turnip. For Crust. Six ounces of Flour. Three ounces of Suet. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Cold Water. Mode of Work.—Make gravy as for Exeter Stew. Add meat cut into pieces about one inch square, also vegetables cut into small dice. Simmer gently for half hour. Make crust of flour, chopped suet, salt, baking powder, and water. Roll out to size of the pan. Put carefully over the meat and simmer very gently from one and a half to two hours. For serving, cut crust into quarters. Turn out the meat and vegetables, place crust on top. Irish Stew. J Ingredients. Half pound of Neck or Breast of Mutton. One pound of Potatoes. Two or three Onions. Pepper and Salt. One and a half gills of cold Water. Mode of Work.—Divide meat into fair sized pieces, cutting away gristle, and put meat into a saucepan with the onions cut in slices, and water. Simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Scrub and peel potatoes; cut them into thick slices. Put with stew, and simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Season and serve on hot dish.Fried Steak and Onions. Ingredients. Half pound of Beef Steak. One ounce of Fat. Two small Onions. Quarter ounce of Flour. Quarter pint of Stock. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Make fat hot, fry onions sliced very thinly. Remove onions from pan, re-heat the fat and put in the meat slightly floured. Turn frequently, using a knife and spoon.- Cook for about eight or ten minutes, according to the thickness. Remove to hot dish. Place onions on top. Make gravy by browning the flour in the fat, adding stock gradually. Season and strain round (not over) steak. Grilled Chop. Ingredients. One Chop. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Trim the chop. Warm the bars of gridiron, place the chop close to the fire, turning it every two minutes. Serve on a hot dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper. A medium sized chop takes from eight to ten minutes. Stewed Ox Kidney. Ingredients. One pound of Kidney. Three ounces of Fat Bacon. Two small Onions. Half pint of Water. Pepper and Salt. Half ounce of Flour. Mode of Work.—Cut up kidney into neat pieces and wash well. Remove the fat. Place in a saucepan with bacon (scalded)i7 and onions cut up. Simmer gently for two hours. Mix flour, pepper, and salt with two tablespoonsful of cold water. Add carefully to stew, stirring all the while, and cook for five minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread. Liver and Bacon. Ingredients. Half pound of Liver. Two ounces of Bacon. One tablespoonful of Flour. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Quarter teaspoonful of Pepper. Half pint of Stock. Mode of Work.—Wash the liver. Cut rind off bacon thinly. Heat the frying-pan and fry bacon slowly, turning continually. Remove to hot dish. Mix flour, pepper, salt together on a plate. Slice the liver and draw the slices lightly through the seasoned flour. Fry in the bacon fat. Put in centre of dish, add remainder of flour to the pan, brown it and pour stock to it. Boil. Pour round the liver. Place bacon on top. Liver Collops. Ingredients. Half pound of Sheep’s Liver. Two ounces of fat Bacon. One dessertspoonful of Flour. One teaspoonful of chopped Sage. Half pint of cold Water. Three small Onions. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Pepper. Mode of Work.—Cut the bacon into small dice. Fry lightly in the saucepan. Slice the onions, fry them also in the fat. Mix together the flour, pepper, salt and sage. Put these into the pan. Stir them, add cold water gradually. Let this boil up, put in the liver cut into sijiall pieces. Simmer gently for three- quarters of an hour. ci8 Poor Man’s Goose. Ingredients. Half pound of Pig’s'Fry or scraps of Pork or Liver. Two small Onions.0 One teaspoonful of dried Sage. Cold Water. One tablespoonful of Flour. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Quarter teaspoonful of Pepper. Mode of Work.—Mix flour and seasoning together. Cut the meat into pieces. Dip each piece into the seasoned flour. Lay these in a pie-dish alternately with the onion sliced thinly. Put rest of seasoning over the top. Half fill dish with cold water. Cover with greased paper and bake one hour. Hot Pot. Ingredients. Half pound of Steak. Two Onions. Half pint of cold Water. One and a half pounds of Potatoes. Pepper and Salt. Half ounce of Fat. Mode of Work.—Parboil the onions and potatoes. Cut the meat into neat pieces. Lay these in a pie-dish with quartered onions between. Cover with potatoes cut into rough pieces not sliced. Pour water over. Place fat cut in pieces on top. Bake one hour in hot oven. Sausages and Potatoes. Ingredients. Two Sausages. Half pound of Potatoes, mashed. Mode of Work.—Prick the sausages, heat the frying-pan, fry sausages very brown. Serve on mashed potatoes.19 LESSON III. COOKING FISH. Boiled Fish. Ingredients, One pound of Cod or Hake, or one small Haddock. Sufficient warm Water to cover. Salt and Vinegar in the proportion of one teaspoonful to one pint. Mode of Work.—Wash and clean fish. Put trimmings into the water. Place the fish in a piece of muslin or on strainer of fish kettle, and put into the water, allowing ten minutes to one pound and ten minutes over. On no account allow it to boil. Serve on a hot dish with .parsley or egg sauce over. Baked Fish. Ingredients. One slice of Cod Fish (any white fish may be cooked this way). Two tablespoonsful of Breadcrumbs. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Half teaspoonful of Sweet Herbs. Pepper and Salt. Half an Egg. One small rasher of fat Bacon. Mode of Work.—Wash and dry the fish thoroughly. Lay it on a greased tin. Mix breadcrumbs and seasonings together, bind with the egg. Lay this mixture on a slice 'of cod, and cover with the rasher of bacon, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. If you are cooking a haddock put the stuffing inside the fish and sew it up. N.B.—The fish should weigh about half a pound. C 220 Baked Herrings or Mackerel. Ingredients. Four Herrings or one small Mackerel. Quarter pint of Vinegar. Teaspoonful of Peppercorns. Teaspoonful of Salt. One Onion (small). Two Bay-leaves. Six Allspice. Two Cloves. Half gill of Water. Nutmeg. Mode of Work.—Wash and scale the herrings, split up the backs, remove bone and head, sprinkle with pepper, salt and nutmeg. Roll up, pack tightly in a pie-dish. Pour vinegar and water over, add the flavourings, cover, and bake in a slow oven for two hours. Mackerel should be washed, cleaned, and cut into small blocks. Steamed Haddock. Ingredients. One Haddock. Boiling Water. Vinegar and Salt. Mode of Work.—Wash and clean the fish. Place in the steamer over a saucepan containing boiling water, vinegar and salt. Steam for about half an hour. Serve hot, with or without sauce. Fish Fried in Batter. Ingredients. One Plaice. One tablespoonful of Flour. One teaspoonful of Salt. • Quarter teaspoonful of Pepper. Batter. Four ounces of Flour. One gill of tepid Water. One ounce of Fat. Salt.Mode of Work.—Mix flour and salt together, add the fat, (melted) to the tepid water, mix with flour. Beat well and let it stand. Wash and fillet the plaice, remove black skin, dry well and leave in a cloth. Mix pepper, flour, and salt together and draw pieces of fish lightly through it. If batter too thick, add one tablespoonful of tepid water just before using it. Dip each piece of fish into the batter and fry in hot fat till golden brown. Drain on kitchen paper and serve hot, garnish with fried parsley. To fry is to boil in fat, so you must have enough fat to cover what you are frying. FRIED HERRINGS, MACKEREL AND PLAICE. Fried Herrings. Ingredients. Three Herrings. Two ounces of Fat. One tablespoonful of Flour. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Wash and scale herrings (if liked they may be split down back and bone removed), dry thoroughly, and leave in a cloth. Mix flour with pepper and salt, pass herrings lightly through this mixture. Make fat quite hot in a frying-pan, and fry the fish for ten minutes. Dish on folded-1 paper. Fried Mackerel. Mode of Work.—Proceed as for herrings, splitting fish open down the back. Fried Plaice. Mode of Work.—Remove black skin (skinning from tail upwards), also eyes and fins. C®22 Kippers and Bloaters. Ingredients. Two Kippered Herrings. Two Bloaters. Mode of Work.—Wipe well, and place on heated gridirons, and grill for five minutes. Serve on a hot dish. Bloaters must be cleaned by removing the insides from the head. If preferred, they may be split, then place the cut side to the fire. Finnan Haddock. Ingredients. One Dried Haddock. Pepper. Half gill of Milk. Half gill of Water. Fat to grease Tin. Mode of Work.—Wipe the fish, put it into a greased tin, pour milk and water over. Cover with a plate or paper, and bake for twenty minutes. Lift carefully on to hot dish, and sprinkle with pepper and pour liquid round. Haddock and Tomatoes. Ingredients. One Dried Haddock. One ounce of Fat. One Onion. Pepper, Salt and Parsley. Two Tomatoes or half a Tin. Quarter pound of Patna Rice. Four quarts of Water. Mode of Work.—Melt fat in a saucepan, put in sliced onion and fry slightly but not brown. Add tomatoes cut up, and simmer for fifteen minutes, add seasoning. Remove skin and bone from fish, add chopped fish to the mixture, and set over the fire for five minutes. Boil rice and serve as a garnish round dish, and sprinkle one tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley over fish in the centre.23 Salt Cod and Egg Sauce. Ingredients. One pound and a half of Salt Fish. Cold Water. One Egg (hard boiled). Quarter pint of Milk. Half ounce of Fat. Half ounce of Flour. Seasoning. Mode of Work.—Cut fish into pieces and steep in cold water for several hours. Drain, put fish into a saucepan. Cover with cold water and bring to the boil and simmer for half an hour. Serve on a hot dish with sauce over. To Make Sauce.—Cut up the hard boiled egg. Melt fat, stir in flour, add milk gradually, boil, add chopped egg and seasoning. Stewed Fish. Ingredients. One Plaice. Quarter pint of Milk. Pepper and Salt. One teaspoonful of Flour. Quarter ounce of Fat. Pinch of Mace and Nutmeg. Mode of Work.—Wash, fillet and skin fish, sprinkle each fillet with pepper, salt and spices. Roll up and tie with cotton. Place in a saucepan, pour milk over, and stew gently for ten minutes. Mix the fat and flour together on a plate, remove the fish, add the blended fat and flour to the milk; boil for five minutes, keeping fish hot in the meantime. Let sauce cook thoroughly, and pour over fish.24 LESSON IV, Boiled Potatoes. Ingredients. One pound of Potatoes (4 or 6). One quart of Water (sufficient to cover) cold. Half teaspoonful of Salt Mode of Work.—Wash, scrub, and peel the potatoes thinly; put them into cold water as peeled. Add salt to water in the saucepan, and then add potatoes. Boil gently from twenty to forty minutes, according to age and size. When soft, drain off the water and leave potatoes to dry in the saucepan on the hob for about ten minutes. N.B.—The best way to cook a potato is to boil it in its skin, peeling it carefully when it is cooked. Steamed Potatoes. Ingredients. One pound of Potatoes. One teaspoonful of Salt. Mode of Work.—Sprinkle the peeled potatoes with salt, and place in a steamer over boiling water. This way of cooking them takes rather longer than boiling. Baked Potatoes. Ingredients. One pound of Potatoes. Mode of Work.—Scrub well and dry thoroughly. Put them in a quick oven. Bake from one to one and a half hours. When done prick them to let the steam out.25 a Mashed Potatoes. Ingredients. One pound of boiled Potatoes. One saltspoonful of Salt. Ouarter saltspoonful of Pepper. Milk. Mode of Work.—Break the potatoes with a fork or rub through a sieve. Add the milk and seasoning. Work well with the fork, dish lightly, and serve hot. Boiled Carrots and Parsnips. Ingredie7its. Four Carrots or two Parsnips. Two quarts of boiling Water. One tablespoonful of Salt. One teaspoonful of Sugar. Quarter ounce of Fat. Mode of Work.—Scrub the vegetables, scrape the carrots, peel the parsnips thinly. Cut across the middle of each. Cut the thick piece in halves lengthways. Put them in clean cold water for five or ten minutes. When the water in the saucepan boils, add salt and sugar, fat and vegetables. Cook from one to one and a half hours. Time depends on age and size. Boiled Turnips. Ingredients. Four small Turnips. Two quarts of Water. One tablespoonful of Salt. Mode of Work.—Scrub the turnips and peel to the dark line. Put in clean cold water for five minutes. When the water in the saucepan boils, add salt and turnips. Cook for three quarters to one hour. Drain in colander. Press out the water with a saucepan lid. Break with a fork; stir in a little milk, salt and pepper.26 Beetroot. Ingrediefits. One Beetroot. Two quarts of boiling Water. Mode of Work.—Be careful to avoid breaking the surface in any way. The mould may be lightly removed, but the root should not be scrubbed. Place in the boiling water, keeping it well covered, and boil well from one and a half to three hours, according to size. Lift the root into cold water and carefully remove the skin with the fingers. Artichokes. Ingredients. One pound of Artichokes. Two teaspoonsful of Salt. Two quarts of boiling Water. One teaspoonful of Vinegar. Mode of Work.—Wash, scrub and peel the artichokes thinly. Place in cold water containing a little vinegar. Boil gently: length of time depends on size and age. Drain and serve with white sauce. Stewed Onions. Ingredients. Four small Spanish Onions. Four lumps of Sugar. Two ounces of Fat,'Butter or Beef Dripping. Mode of Work.—Melt the sugar and fat in the stew-pan. Skin the onions and place in the melted fat. Cover closely and stew very gently for two or three hours. Shake occasionally. Lift out on to dish. Skim fat off the brown sauce. Add seasoning and pour sauce round.2 7 Boiled Onions. I?igredieiits. Four small Spanish Onions. Two quarts of boiling Water. One tablespoonful of Salt. Quarter pint of Milk. Half ounce of Fat. Dessertspoonful of Flour. Mode of Work.—Parboil the onions for one hour, drain and add quarter pint of milk and fat. Simmer very gently for one hour. Mix in a basin dessertspoonful of flour with one table- spoonful of milk, a little pepper and salt. Add this to milk and onions, boil up and serve on a hot dish. Tomatoes. Ingredients. One pound of Tomatoes. Half ounce of Fat. Mode of Work.—Choose tomatoes of one size. Wipe them and remove the stalks. Place them in a saucepan with the fat. Set over a very gentle heat and cook till tender. Time varies from fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Add seasoning. Serve on a hot dish. Note.—Tinned tomatoes can be cooked in this way. Green Vegetables. Ingredients. One pound of Greens. One tablespoonful of Salt. Two quarts of boiling Water. Soda to cover Threepenny-piece. Mode of Work.—Put the water on to boil. Pick off the yellow or tough leaves. Split stems. Wash well in cold salted water. When water in saucepan boils, add salt and soda. Drain the greens and add them. Boil with lid off from twenty28 minutes to one hour. Drain and press well in a colander. Leave cauliflower and Brussels sprouts whole. Dish on a strainer or on an inverted saucer. N.B.—Peas require shelling and beans slicing. A little sugar is often added to the water they are cooked in. They are not pressed and are frequently tossed in the saucepan in a little fat. Spinach. Mode of Work.—Wash the leaves very thoroughly. Place in saucepan on the hob. Sprinkle with salt and reduce slowly. LESSON V, Shepherd’s Pie. Ingredients. Quarter pound of cooked Meat. Two tablespoonsful of Gravy. Three-quarter pound of mashed Potato. Quarter ounce of Fat. Gravy. Quarter ounce of Fat. One tablespoonful of Onion. Half gill of Stock. One teaspoonful of Flour. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Grease the pie-dish. Line it with potato. Cut the meat up into small dice. Lay it in the dish and add gravy. Cover with potato, put little pieces of fat over the top. Make hot and brown. Time about ten minutes in quick oven.29 Meat Shape. Ingredie7its. Four ounces of mixed Meat. Four ounces of cooked Potato. One ounce of Bread. One teaspoonful of cooked Onion. Fat to grease basin and paper. Two tablespoonsful of Milk. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Quarter teaspoonful of Pepper. One tablespoonful of Brown Crumbs. Mode of Work.—Chop the meat. Soak the bread in the milk, beat it up with a fork. Rub the fat on basin and paper. Coat the basin with breadcrumbs. Mix all the other ingredients together, and put them in the greased basin. Cover with greased paper and steam one hour. This mixture may be formed into balls, coated with egg and breadcrumbs, and fried in hot fat as rissoles. Curry. Ingredients. Quarter pound of cooked Meat. Half ounce of Fat. Two tablespoonsful of Onion. One tablespoonful of Curry Powder. One teaspoonful of Flour. One and a half gills of Water or Stock. Quarter teaspoonful of Salt. Mode of Work.—Make the fat quite hot, peel, slice and mince the onion, and fry it in the hot fat. When brown, add the curry powder and flour, and then the water gradually. Simmer for fifteen minutes and cool. Then add the meat cut into dice. Re-heat, add salt, and pour into centre of the dish with wall of rice round.30 Boiled Rice. Ingredients. Four ounces of Rice (Patna). Two quarts of boiling Water. One tablespoonful of Salt. One pint of cold Water. To Boil Rice.—Wash well in several waters, to free it from loose starch. Put salt into boiling water. Sprinkle rice in. Do not allow water to stop boiling. Boil fast for fifteen minutes. When the rice grains are soft fill up the saucepan with cold water, strain through a colander, return rice to saucepan for a few minutes to dry and re-heat, shake it well to prevent it sticking. IHash. Ingredients. Stock. Pieces of Bone. Cold Water to cover. Salt. Hash. Half pound of cooked Meat. Pepper and Salt. Sippets of Toast. Gravy. Half ounce of Fat. One small Onion sliced. Half ounce of Flour. Half pint of Stock. Mode of Work.—Put bone, salt and water in pan, bring to the boil, remove scum, and simmer for two hours. Put the fat; in a frying-pan, and when the blue smoke rises add the onion and brown it. Brown the flour, and add stock gradually. Simmer fifteen minutes, and add the sliced meat, let it get hot through and dish neatly with sippets of toast round.31 Mince. Mode of Work.—Make gravy as for hash, add the meat finely chopped, and serve with a border of mashed potatoes. Savoury Batter. Ingredients. Four ounces of Flour. One Egg. Half pint of Milk. Ounce and a half of Fat for tin. Four ounces of Meat. Half teaspoonful of Herbs. Half teaspoonful of Sait. Quarter as much Pepper. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Mode of Work.—Sift thq flour and salt together. Make hollow in the centre of the flour. Put egg into this, add half the milk and stir with a wooden spoon till smoothly mixed. Beat the batter well, add the rest of the milk, and set it to stand. Cut the meat up small. Wash, dry and chop the parsley, and mix the meat, parsley, herbs, and seasoning into the batter. Put fat into the tin and make it hot. Stir the baking powder into the batter, pour into the hot fat, and bake in a quick oven from twenty to thirty minutes. COLD FISH. Fish Cakes. Ingredients. Four ounces of cooked Fish (dried Haddock). Four ounces of cooked Potato. Half tablespoonful of cold thick Sauce, or half Egg. Pepper and Salt. Cayenne. One Egg. Parsley. Frying Fat. Quarter pound of Breadcrumbs. Mode of Work.—Put the fat on to heat. Pick fish from the bones and chop up finely. Mash the potatoes and mix with the32 fish. Add a pinch of pepper, salt and cayenne, and bind the mixture together with the cold sauce or with half the egg. Form into cakes (six). Coat these with egg and breadcrumbs and fry in hot fat till golden brown. Drain on soft paper. When the fat is slightly cooled, fry a few sprigs of parsley. Dish fish cakes on folded, paper and garnish with parsley. (This mixture may be baked in a tin, coated with brown crumbs.) Fish Pudding. Ingredients. One pound of Potatoes. Half pint of White Sauce (as served with boiled Fish). Half pound of cooked Fish. One Egg hard boiled. Mode of Work.—Grease a pie-dish, put in layers of fish, sauce and slices of egg. Cover with mashed potatoes. Brush over the top with egg, and bake for twenty minutes. Kedgeree. Ingredients. Quarter pound of boiled Rice. Quarter pound of cold Fish (salt best). One hard-boiled Egg. Half ounce of Butter or Fat. Cayenne Pepper, Salt and Mace. Mode of Work.—Melt the butter in a stew-pan. Add rice, fish, and the white of egg cut into small dice. Season well, make thoroughly hot. Pile up high on a h’ot dish. Garnish with the yolk of the egg and a little finely chopped parsley. Fish Curry. Ingredietits. Half pound of cold Fish. One Onion. Piece of Fat size of walnut. Half teaspoonful of Lemon Juice. One teaspoonful of Rice. Dessertspoonful of Curry Powder. Two cold mashed Potatoes. Half pint of Fish Stock. Salt.33 Mode of Work.—Fry the onion in the fat, taking care not to brown. Add curry powder, mashed potatoes and stock. Cook for a few minutes, add fish broken up. Simmer gently for five minutes, and re-heat. Add the lemon juice and serve in a border of boiled rice. COLD VEGETABLES. Colcannon. Ingredients. Half pound of cold boiled Potatoes. Half pound of cold Cabbage. Fat to grease dish. One ounce of Fat. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Pinch of Pepper. Mode of Work.—Crush potatoes with a fork, chop the cabbage small, mix well together. Place them in a saucepan with the fat, pepper and salt. Stir well over the fire until the dripping is melted and mixed with the vegetables. Grease a basin or pie dish, and put in the mixture. Bake in a hot oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn on to hot dish and serve. Bubble and Squeak. Ingredients. Quarter pound of cold Potatoes. Two ounces of Bacon (fat) cooked. Quarter pound of Cabbage or other Vegetables. Pepper and Salt. Fat for frying—about half ounce. Mode of Work.—Chop the cabbage, mash the potatoes, cut the bacon into dice, mix well. Make the fat hot in a frying pan. Fry the vegetables brown on both sides, shaping the mixture into a flat cake the size of the pan. D34 Fried Potatoes. Ingredients. One pound of cold Potatoes. One ounce of Fat. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Slice the potatoes. Make the fat hot in a frying-pan. Lay the slices of potato in the hot fat and fry golden brown. Serve on folded paper, sprinkle with pepper and salt. Potato Balls. Ingredients. Half pound of cold Potatoes. Half ounce of Fat melted. Half tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Crumbs and Fat (for frying). One Egg. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Rub the potatoes through a sieve and mix all the dry ingredients together. Have the fat melted and add this to the potatoes, etc., and bind together with half the yolk of egg. Roll into balls about the size of a walnut; brush with beaten egg, coat with crumbs, and fiy in hot fat. LESSON VI, BREAD AND CAKES. White Bread. Ingredients. One and a half pounds of Household Flour. One and a half teaspoonsful of Salt. Half ounce of German Yeast. Half teaspoonful of Sugar. Three-quarters of a pint of tepid Water—one part boiling water —two parts cold water. Mode of Work.—Warm the basins, put yeast and sugar in smaller one, and sift the flour and salt into the larger one. Warm35 the flour. Cream the yeast and sugar together, add the tepid water. Make a hollow in the flour, put the yeast and water in the hollow, stir in a little flour, sprinkle some on top of the liquid. Cover, and set the sponge to work for twenty minutes in a warm place. Work the sponge and flour together. Flour the board, turn dough on to it. Knead well. Put back in warm basin and put dough to rise for one and a quarter hours. Warm and grease a bread tin. Mould into a loaf with very little and light handling. Put into the tin, prick or cut the top, and put to prove for half hour. Bake in a quick oven for half to three-quarters of an hour. When taken from oven, put to cool slowly on a sieve. Brown Bread. Ingredients. One pound of Whole Meal. Half ounce of Yeast. One teaspoonful of Salt. Half teaspoonful of Sugar. Half pint of Tepid Water. Mode of Work.—Warm two basins. Put flour and salt in larger one and set to warm. Cream yeast and sugar in smaller one. Mix these with tepid water. Make hollow in flour, pour liquid in, mix together. Cover, and put to rise for three-quarters of an hour. Warm and grease a tin. Make the dough into a loaf, and place in tin. Prick or cut the top. Prove for twenty minutes. Bake in a quick oven for thirty minutes. Cool on sieve. Note.—If liked, a sponge may be set as for white bread. Let it work for thirty minutes. Mix into dough. Knead for five minutes, put into tin and prove for thirty minutes. Bake for thirty to forty minutes. Baking Powder Bread. Ingredients. Twelve ounces of Flour. Half teaspoonful of Salt. One and a half teaspoonsful of Baking Powder. One and a half gills of Milk, or Milk and Water. Mode of Work.—Grease a baking sheet. Sift flour, baking D 236 powder and salt together. Stir in milk and mix quickly and smoothly into a stiff dough. Divide in four. Cut each piece into a large and a small one. Roll each quickly and lightly. Put . small piece on larger one to form a cottage loaf. Put on tin and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Scones. Ingredients. Half pound of Flour. Quarter toaspoonful of Salt. One ounce of Fat. One ounce of Sugar. Half teaspoonful of Carbonate Soda. One gill of sour Milk. For Glaze. Half teaspoonful of Sugar. One teaspoonful of Milk. Mode of Work.—Grease a tin or girdle. Sift flour, soda and salt together. Add sugar, then mix and add milk. Make into smooth dough. Shape on floured board into a round cake. Cut across twice. Place on tin and bake in a quick oven for three- quarters of an hour. Mix the glaze. Brush the scones over when cooked. Dry, and put on sieve to cool. Gingerbread. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Flour. Pinch of Salt. Two teaspoonsful of Ginger. Half ounce of Candied Peel. Two ounces of Fat. One ounce of Demcrara Sugar. Eight ounces of Golden Syrup. One Egg. Half teaspoonful of Soda. Half gill of Milk (if necessary). Mode of Work.—Grease and line a Yorkshire pudding tin with paper. Melt the fat, add golden syrup and sugar, and mix well over the fire. Do not boil. Sift flour, ginger and salt37 together. Cut up the peel, stir to the flour. Beat up the egg Mix this with the cooled mixture of fat, etc. Pour the wet ingredients to the dry and beat well. Mix the soda with a little of the milk and stir to the other ingredients. Pour the mixture into the greased tin. Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters to one hour. When done, cool on a sieve. Hock Cakes. Ingredients. Half pound of Flour. Pinch of Salt. Two ounces of Fat. Two ounces of Sugar. One Egg. Two teaspoonsful of Carraway Seeds. (Two ounces of Currants. Half ounce of Peel. Half teaspoonful of Spice. One teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Two tablespoonsful of Milk. Mode of Work.—Grease a baking sheet. Sift salt, flour and baking powder together. Rub in fat. Add seeds and sugar (or sugar and spice, prepared currants and peel). Beat egg with milk and add. Take two forks and drop mixture in rough heaps on to tin. Bake in quick oven for twenty minutes. This mixture makes ten or twelve cakes. Cornflour Cakes. Ingredients. Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Cornflour. Ounce and a half of Fat, or Two ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. One Egg. Two tablespoonsful of Milk. Mode of Work.—Cream fat and sugar. Beat well. Beat egg with the milk. Add half this to the fat and sugar, then half38 the flour and cornflour sifted together, then rest of egg and remainder of flour with the baking powder. Put into greased patty pans and bake in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. N.B.—The same method may be followed in making rice buns, substituting two ounces of ground rice for the cornflour. Potato Teacakes. Ingredients. Quarter pound of Flour. Quarter pound of cold Potatoes. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. One ounce of Fat or Butter. Sufficient Milk to bind. Pinch of Salt. Mode of Work.—Rub the potatoes through a sieve. Mix with the flour and baking powder. Melt the fat and stir it to the other ingredients. Add sufficient milk to make to a stiff paste. Roll out half inch thick and cut into rounds. Put on greased tin or girdle, and bake for fifteen minutes. N.B.—When baked on girdle the cakes will require turning. Cocoanut Buns. Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Quarter pound of Castor Sugar. Quarter pound of Cocoanut (grated). Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Three ounces of Fat. One Egg. Quarter pint of Milk. Pinch of Salt. Mode of Work.—Cream the fat and sugar. Add egg, milk and flour alternately. When well mixed, add the cocoanut, and lastly, baking powder and salt. Put on the greased tin in rocky pieces with two forks. Bake for ten or fifteen minutes. This quantity makes twenty cakes.39 Sponge Cakes. Ingredients. Two Eggs. Their weight in Flour and Sugar. Grated rind of half a Lemon. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Pinch of Salt. Mode of Work.—Grease tins if small ones. If preferred in one cake, grease one larger tin and line with greased paper. Beat eggs, add sugar, beat till quite light and frothy. Sift flour and salt together. Mix one tablespoonful of flour with the baking powder, which must be sprinkled in last of all. Add remainder of flour and lemon rind to tbe beaten sugar and eggs. Half fill tins. Bake in moderate oven for fifteen minutes. When done remove from tins and cool on sieve. When baked in one tin, the cake will require from thirty to forty minutes to bake. Josephine Cake. • Ingredients. Quarter pound of Fat. Quarter pound of Sugar. Two Eggs. Two tablespoonsful of Milk. Half pound of Flour. Quarter pound of Currants. Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Pinch of Salt. Mode of Work.—Cream fat and sugar together. Add eggs and flour alternately, lastly add the baking powder and currants. Beat all well together with a wooden spoon.I Pour into a greased tin and bake in a moderate oven for one hour.40 * Seed Cake. Ingredients. Half pound of Flour. Two ounces of Sugar. One gill of Milk. One Egg. One teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Two teaspoonsful of Carraway Seeds. Half ounce of Candied Peel finely chopped. Three ounces of Clarified Fat. Salt. Mode of Work.—Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together. Rub fat into the flour, as for pastry, add this to the sugar, seeds and candied peel, mix well with a wooden spoon. Beat the egg and milk together. Pour this to the other ingredients, mix quickly, put into a lined well-greased cake tin (square), and bake for one hour. This mixture may be baked in patty pans, and is sufficient to make twelve small cakes. Oatmeal Biscuits. Ingredients. One Egg. Three ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Fat. Pinch of Salt. Three ounces of medium Oatmeal. • Two teaspoonsful of Water or Milk. Half teaspoonful of Soda. Three-quarters of an ounce of Sugar. Mode of Work.—Mix the oatmeal, flour, salt and soda together, add sugar. Melt the fat, beat up the egg and add to the fat. Stir these to the other ingredients. Flour board and pin. Roll out about third of an inch thick. Cut into rounds or squares and lay them on a greased tin. Bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, or on a girdle over the fire. Turn once.AI LESSON VII, PASTRY. Fruit Tart. Ingredients. Half pound of Flour. Pinch of Salt. Three ounces of Fat. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. One teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. One gill of cold Water. One pound of Fruit. Two ounces of Sugar. A little Water. Mode of Work.—Prepare the fruit. Put half into a pie-dish, then layer of sugar, remainder of fruit on top, pour in water. For Pastry.—Sift the flour, add to it the baking powder and salt, rub in the fat until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs, add sugar. Mix with cold water to make it into a stiff paste, using the blade of a knife for mixing. Flour the board and rolling pin, and roll the paste to the shape of the pie-dish. Damp the edges of the dish, cut rim off pastry, and put on the edge of the dish, moisten the rim, and put cover on. Cut up the edges and decorate. Bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Brush over quickly with cold water and dredge with castor sugar. Apple Dumplings. Ingrediejits. Four large Apples. Four Cloves. Four teaspoonsful of Sugar.42 For Pastry. Half pound of Flour. Pinch of Salt. Three ounces of Fat. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. One gill of cold Water. Mode of Work.—Peel and core the apples, make pastry as for fruit tart. Divide into four large round pieces, put the apple into the centre, and clove and sugar in place of the core, cover the apple, join on the top, and put on greased baking sheet, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. Cornish Pasties. Ingredients. Pastry as for Apple Dumplings. Quarter pound of Mutton. Quarter pound of Potatoes. Pepper and Salt. Half a small Onion chopped. Mode of Work.—Cut the meat and potatoes (both uncooked) into very small pieces. Mince the onion very finely. Add pepper and salt to taste. Mix all well together. Divide the pastry into six pieces. Roll each piece square. Put a spoonful of the mixture on to each piece. Wet the edges of the pastry and draw the two opposite corners together. Press edges together and crimp them with the finger and thumb. Lay on a greased tin, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Potato and Meat Pie. Ingredients. Half pound of Beef. Half pound of Potatoes. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Quarter teaspoonful of Pepper. One Onion. Cold Water. Mode of Work.—Cut the meat into pieces about one inch square. Peel and parboil the potatoes. Peel, slice and chop the43 onion. Put alternate layers of each in a pie dish, with a sprinkling of pepper and salt between each layer, and half fill the pie dish with cold water. Flaky Pastry. Ingredients. Half pound of Flour. Four ounces of Fat. Pinch of Salt. One gill of Water (rather less). Egg to glaze. For the Pastry.—Add salt to the flour and pass through a sieve, rub one third of the fat into the flour, mix with water to a stiff paste. Flour board and pin, and roll pastry out till it is thin and narrow. Divide remainder of fat into three, put third on the pastry in little dabs, over two thirds of the surface. Lightly dredge with flour, fold in three. Press pin on edges to close them. Turn with rough edges towards you, roll out again. Add another third of fat, fold, and roll as before. Do this once more, then roll into shape as required. Cut off edges, put ion moistened edge of pie-dish, put on cover, trim edges with a knife. Cut edges up, and decorate in centre. Make a hole to allow steam to escape, and bake for one hour. Rough Puff Pastry. Ingredients. For Sausage Rolls. Two Sausages. Half pound of Flour. Four ounces of Fat. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Teaspoonful of Lemon Juice. One gill of Water. Mode of Work.—Put the sausages into boiling water and boil for five minutes. Take out, cool and skin. Cut each sausage in half lengthways. Pastry.—Cut fat into small pieces. Mix into the flour, with the salt, lemon juice and water. Form into a stiff paste. Fold and roll the same as for flaky crust; giving the pastry five rolls, making a pause after the first two rolls. Cut it into four squares.44 Put half a sausage on to each square of pastry. Wet the edges, fold over and mark. Place on tin and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Note.—This pastry may be used for small pastry cases or for meat pies. Hot Water Crust for Raised Pies. Ingredients. Twelve ounces of Pork, or half pound of Veal and two ounces of Ham or Bacon. One teaspoonful of Salt. Quarter teaspoonful of Pepper. One tablespoonful of Water. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Quarter teaspoonful of grated Lemon. Pepper and Salt. One tablespoonful of Water. Pastry. Half pound of Flour. Two ounces of Lard. Four tablespoonsful of boiling Water. Eggs to glaze. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Mode of Work.—Melt the lard in water and boil up. Mix salt with the flour. Pour lard and water on this, mix well, and keep hot. Cut meat off the bones and make stock of the bones. Cut meat into dice and season it, sprinkle with water. Take one third of pastry and keep it warm, work the rest smooth and mould quickly into the shape of a drum. Put meat in, wet the edges. Roll out the remainder of pastry and put on to cover the drum. Trim and decorate, and glaze with egg. Make a hole in the top. Bake for one and a half hours. When done, pour in stock through the hole at the top. Welsh Cheese Cakes. Ingredients. Trimmings of Pastry. Jam, one tablespoonful. One Egg, and its weight in Sugar, Flour and Fat. Grated rind of half a Lemon.45 Mode of Work.—Roll out trimmings of pastry, and line patty pans thinly. Put quarter teaspoonful of jam in each, and above that, one teaspoonful of cheese cake mixture. Bake in quick oven for ten minutes. Mixture.—Cream fat and sugar together. Add flour and egg alternately, add lemon rind. Beat well. Meat Puffs. Mode of Work.—Roll out any trimmings of pastry left as thinly as possible. Mince very finely two or three tablespoonsful of cold meat. Season well with pepper and salt. Cut the pastry into rounds, put about one teaspoonful of meat on one half, fold the other over. Press and pinch the edges together. Flour them or egg and crumb them, and fry a golden brown. Syrup Tart. Ingredients. Trimmings of Pastry, or Quarter pound of Flour. Ounce and a half of Fat. Quarter teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Cold Water. Quarter pound of Syrup. Qne teacupful of Breadcrumbs. Few drops of Lemon Juice. Mode of Work.—Make a short crust with the flour, baking powder and fat, etc. Grease a flat tin or plate and line it with the pastry. Mix together the syrup and crumbs. Pour into centre of tin and bake half an hour.46 LESSON VIII, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. Brown George. Ingredients. Four ounces of Flour. Four ounces of Breadcrumbs. Four ounces of Suet. Four ounces of Golden Syrup. One teaspoonful of Ginger. One teaspoonful of Baking Powder. One gill of Milk. Pinch of Salt. Fat and Paper for basin. Mode of Work.—Skin suet, shred and chop it finely with some of the flour till it is like grains of coarse oatmeal. Mix flour, suet, ginger, baking powder, salt and breadcrumbs. Grease paper and basin. Add milk and treacle to dry ingredients. Stir well together. Put the mixture into basin, cover with paper. Put into boiling water which reaches only half way up the basin, and steam for two and a half hours. Fruit Pudding. Ingredients. One pound of Fruit. Half pound of Flour. Two ounces of chopped Suet. Pinch of Salt. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. One gill of cold Water. Fat to grease basin.47 If Apple Pudding. Six Cloves. Two ounces of Sugar. Two tablespoonsful of Water. If Green Gooseberry. Four ounces of Sugar. Two tablespoonsful of Water. If Rhubarb Pudding. Four ounces of Sugar. Mode of Work.—Wipe and string rhubarb. Pick goose- berries, currants, cherries and plums; pare, core and cut up apples. Skin suet, shred and chop it finely with a little of the flour, add the rest of the flour, salt, and baking powder, and mix with cold water into a stiff paste. Cut one third off for lid. Roll out remainder and line greased basin, put half of fruit in, then sugar (water and flavouring if necessary), cover with fruit and wet the edges. Roll out the small piece and put on top. Seal the edges. Tie a scalded floured cloth over the pudding and put in boiling water which covers the pudding. Boil one and a half or two hours. Roly-poly Pudding. Ingredients. Half pound of Flour. Three ounces of Suet. Pinch of Salt. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Cold Water. If Jam. Two good tablespoonsful of Jam. If Treacle. Three tablespoonsful of Treacle. One gill of Breadcrumbs. Grated rind of half a Lemon. Mode of Work.-—Skin the suet, shred and chop it finely with some of the flour. Add salt and baking powder to the well mixed flour and suet. Mix into a stiff paste. Roll out into an oblong48 piece, spread jam on it, if for jam pudding, if for treacle pudding put treacle on, and sprinkle the crumbs and lemon rind over the treacle. Wet the edges. Roll up, put in scalded floured cloth. Tie the ends with string. Put in boiling water. Boil for one and a half hours. Boiled Bread Pudding. Ingredients. Four ounces of scraps of Bread. Four ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Suet. Two ounces of Sugar. Fat to grease Basin. fTwo ounces of Raisins. \One ounce of Currants. One saltspoonful of Spice. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Mode of Work.—Soak the bread in cold water. Chop suet with some of the flour. Clean the currants, stone the raisins. Mix suet, flour, sugar, spice and baking powder. Grease the basin. Squeeze the water from the bread. Break it up with a fork. Add it to the other ingredients. Mix well. Put in basin, cover with scalded and floured cloth. Tie down. Plunge in boiling water and boil for two or three hours. If liked, an egg can be added to this. Fig Pudding. Itigredie?its. Quarter pound of scraps of Bread. Quarter pound of Flour. Three ounces of Suet. Salt. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Quarter pound of Figs. Three ounces of Sugar. Half gill of Milk. Nutmeg. Fat to grease Basin. Mode of Work.—Soak the bread. Chop the figs. Skin,49 shred and chop suet finely. Mix flour, suet, sugar, salt, and nutmeg, and baking powder. Squeeze bread and break it with a fork. Add to other ingredients. Mix well, put in basin. Cover with scalded floured cloth. Tie down. Plunge in boiling water and boil for two or three hours. If liked, this pudding can be steamed. Crumbs should then be used instead of soaked bread, and the pudding should be covered with greased paper and steamed for four hours. Cold Fruit Pudding*. Ingredients. Four ounces of Bread. One pound of Fruit. Two to four ounces of Sugar. Two to eight tablespoonsful of Water. Mode of Work.—Put sugar and water on to boil. Prepare the fruit and add it to the syrup. Simmer till soft. Line a basin or tin or pie-dish with bread. Pour the fruit into the basin and cover with bread. Put the basin on a plate, cover with another plate, and place a weight on it. When cold turn out and serve. Rice Mould and Stewed Fruit. Rice Mould. Ingredients. Half pound of Rice. Half pint of Milk. One ounce of Sugar. One quart of Water. Flavouring. Mode of Work.—Wash the rice, put into a saucepan of boiling water, boil five minutes, strain, put into the milk and simmer till milk is absorbed. Add the sugar and flavouring. Put all into a mould wetted with cold water. When cold, turn out and serve with stewed fruit round. e50 Stewed Fruit. Ingredients. One pound of Fruit. Two ounces of Sugar. Two tablespoonsful of Water. Flavouring. Mode of Work.—Make syrup with the sugar and water, add the fruit and simmer very gently till tender. If apples, the fruit should be first peeled, cored, and quartered. Rhubarb wiped, if old stringed and cut into neat pieces. Prunes should be soaked overnight, and flavoured with cinnamon. Xmas Pudding. Ingredients. Quarter pound of Flour. Quarter pound of Breadcrumbs. Quarter pound of Suet. Quarter teaspoonful of grated Ginger. Pinch of Salt. Quarter pound of Treacle. Two ounces of Raisins. Two ounces of Currants. One teaspoonful of Baking Powder. One Egg and a little Milk. Mode of Work.—Clean the currants, stone the raisins, chop the suet finely. Stir all dry ingredients well together, and mix with the egg and treacle, put into a greased basin, cover with greased paper and steam for two hours. Serve with white sauce. Bread Fritters. Ingredients. Four ounces of Flour. Pinch of Salt. One Egg. Quarter pint of Milk. Four thin slices of Bread. Four tablespoonsful of Jam. Frying Fat. Mode of Work.—Mix salt and flour through a sieve. Break5i egg, and make a batter with flour and milk. Beat well. Let it stand. Make sandwiches of-jam and bread. Cut them into small triangular pieces. Dip into the batter, and drop into the fat. When golden brown, remove with slice. Drain well on soft paper. Dish lightly powdered with sugar. Cornflour Mould. Ingredients. Two ounces of Cornflour. One ounce of Sugar. Pinch of Salt. One pint of Milk. Cinnamon or Lemon Rind to flavour. Mode of Work.—Mix the cornflour with about three table- spoonsful of cold milk. Rinse a saucepan with cold water, place milk and flavouring in it. Bring slowly to the boil. Fill the mould with cold water. When the milk is boiling, pour to the cornflour and stir well. Rinse saucepan, and return the corn- flour, etc. to it. Boil for five minutes. Add sugar and salt. Turn water out of mould, and pour cornflour in quickly. Let it stand till cold. Turn out and serve with jam or stewed fruit. Macaroni Pudding. Ingredients. One ounce of Macaroni. Half ounce of Sugar. Half pint of Milk. Nutmeg. One Egg. Fat to grease dish. Mode of Work.—Break up the macaroni. Put on a pan of water to boil, when boiling add salt, and put in the macaroni. Boil it for thirty minutes. Drain and cool. Grease pie-dish. Beat up the egg, add milk and sugar. Put macaroni in dish, pour egg, etc. over. Grate a little nutmeg over the pudding. Set in a slow oven for about thirty minutes. E 252 Rice Pudding. Ingredients. One ounce of Rice. Half ounce of Sugar. Pinch of Salt. Quarter ounce of Fat. Half pint of Milk. Cinnamon to flavour. Fat to grease pie-dish. Mode of Work.—Grease dish. Wash rice well. Mix rice, sugar, and salt in dish. Pour milk over. Put fat in small pieces on top. (If suet is used, chop it.) Sprinkle cinnamon on surface. Bake in slow oven for hour and a half. Sago Pudding. Ingredients. Two ounces of Sago. One ounce of Sugar. One pint of Milk. One Egg. Pinch of Salt. Fat to grease dish. Flavouring. Mode of Work.—Rinse a saucepan with cold water. Put in the milk and cinnamon, or lemon-rind, and bring it slowly to the boil. Remove cinnamon or rind of lemon. Sprinkle in sago when boiling, and simmer until the sago looks clear. Add sugar. Cool the mixture, grease a pie-dish, beat up the egg and add to mixture. Pour all into a dish. Set the mixture in a slow oven for twenty minutes. N.B.—The preparation of Semolina, Tapioca, and Florador puddings is the same as above. Proportions invariably are four ounces to one quart.53 Parsley Sauce. (TO SERVE WITH WHITE FlSH OR MEAT.) Ingredients. One ounce of Flour. Half pint of Fish Stock or Meat Stock. Three-quarters of an ounce of Fat. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Melt the fat, blend it with the flour in the saucepan, add the stock gradually. Boil well. Season and add the finely chopped parsley. Coat fish or meat with the sauce. Parsley Sauce. (TO SERVE WITH OILY FlSH OR FAT MEAT.) Ingredients. One ounce of Flour. Half pint of Fish Stock or Meat Stock. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Seasoning. Mode of Work.—Mix the flour with a little cold water, add the cooled stock gradually. Boil up and simmer for twenty minutes. Season, and put in the parsley finely chopped. Pour over the fish or meat. Egg Sauce. Ingredients. One hard-boiled Egg. One ounce of Flour. Three-quarters of an ounce of Fat. Plalf pint of Stock. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Chop the egg up into small pieces. (If liked, the white may be chopped, and the yoke rubbed through a strainer for decoration.) Mix sauce as for parsley sauce, and when boiled, add chopped-up egg and seasoning. Serve with white fish.54 White Sweet Sauce. Ingredients. One ounce of Fat. One ounce of Flour. Pinch of Salt. Quarter pint of Milk. Quarter pint of Water. One teaspoonful of Sugar. Mode of Work.—Melt the fat, stir in the flour. Fry gently for three minutes, taking care not to brown. Then add the water gradually. Boil up and add milk. Add sugar just before serving. Sweet Melted Butter. Made as white sauce, using half pint of water, instead of milk and water. Onion Sauce. Ingrediefits. Two Onions. Half pint of Milk and Water. One ounce of Flour. One ounce of Fat. Pepper and Salt. Mode of Work.—Skin and boil the onions. Chop finely. Melt fat in a saucepan, stir in the flour. Fry gently, do not brown. Add milk and water gradually. Boil up, season, and add finely chopped onions. Serve with roast mutton or boiled rabbit.55 LESSON IX, EGGS. To Poach an Egg. Ingredients. One new-laid Egg. A few drops of Lemon Juice or Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Salt. Half pint of boiling Water. One slice of buttered Toast. ' Mode of Work.—Break the egg into a cup, taking care not to break the yolk. Put the lemon juice and salt into a saucepan with the water. When this boils, carefully slide the egg into the water, and cook for three minutes, not allowing the water to boil Lift out in a tablespoon. Drain the water carefully away, and serve on a slice of buttered toast. Scrambled Eggs. Ingredients. Two Eggs. Half ounce of Butter. Quarter teaspoonful of Salt. Pinch of Pepper. One teaspoonful of Milk. Mode of Work.—Put the eggs, milk, pepper and salt into a saucepan, and stir quickly till the eggs begin to set. Cook two minutes and serve on toast, piling the mixture high.56 Omelet. Ingredients. Two Eggs. One tablespoonful of Milk. One teaspoonful of finely chopped Parsley. Saltspoonful of Salt. Half saltspoonful of Pepper. One ounce of Butter or Fat. Mode of Work.—Beat up the eggs. Add the milk and seasoning gently. Put the butter into a small frying-pan, melt, but do not brown it. Pour in the eggs, set on the fire and stir with wooden spoon, bringing the cooked parts up and letting the uncooked parts get to the bottom. When all is lightly set roll the mixtnre over towards the side of the pan opposite the handle, cook for a few seconds, and turn the omelet out on to a hot dish. For Sweet Omelet.—Omit the seasoning, adding instead, one teaspoonful of castor sugar; place a little jam in the folds when serving. Eggs and Bacon. Ingredients. Quarter pound of Bacon. One Egg. Mode of Work.—Cut the rind off the bacon, trim the edges. Place it in a warm frying-pan, and cook slowly, turning continually. When done put into a hot dish. Break the egg carefully into a cup. Have the fat in the frying-pan very hot. Put in the egg, fry slowly, basting with the hot fat. Serve on the bacon.57 CHEESE. Toasted Cheese. Ingredients. Two ounces of Cheese. One tablespoonful of Milk. Pepper. One slice of Toast. Mode of Work.—Slice the cheese thinly. Put into a sauce- pan with the milk and pepper. Set over the fire, and allow it to just dissolve, stirring to prevent burning. Serve hot on toast. Macaroni Cheese. Ingredients. Two ounces of Macaroni. Two ounces of grated Cheese. One quart of boiling Water. Pepper and Salt. A few pieces of Fat. Mode of Work.—Boil the macaroni till tender, drain. Grate the cheese. Grease a pie-dish, place a layer of macaroni, sprinkle over it some grated cheese, pepper and salt Continue this until the dish is full. Place a few pieces of fat over top, and brown in a dutch oven before the fire, or in the oven. Cheese Pudding. Ingredients. Six slices of Bread. Two ounces of grated Cheese. Pepper. Half pint of Milk. One Egg. Pinch of Salt. Mode of Work.—Grease a pie-dish. Make a custard of the eggs, milk and seasoning. Soak the slices of bread in this custard, put into the pie-dish, in layers with the cheese, pour remainder of custard over. Bake very gently half an hour.5§ BATTER. Pancakes. Ingredients. One Egg. Quarter pound of Flour. Half pint of Milk. Salt. Mode of Work.—Sift the flour with salt. Make a hollow in the centre, put egg in and with half the milk, mix into a smooth batter. Beat well, add remainder of milk and set on one side for one hour (longer if possible). Put a small piece of lard, the size of a filbert, into the frying-pan. When this is quite hot, pour in sufficient batter to coat the pan thinly (about one table- spoonful). When set, pass a knife round the edges, and toss on to other side. Fry a golden brown, turn on to sugared paper and roll up. Serve with slices of lemon. Note.—This batter may be baked as Yorkshire pudding. Black Cap Pudding. Ingredients. Batter as for Pancakes. One ounce of Currants. Mode of Work.—Make the batter as for pancakes. Grease a small basin. Pour in the batter, and drop the currants in last of all. Cover with greased paper and steam one hour. Tripe in Batter. Ingredients. Half pound of Tripe. Quarter pint of Milk. Half teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Pepper and Salt. Two tablcspoonsful of Flour. Ounce of Fat for frying. Mode of Work.—Wash the tripe. Cut it into square pieces.59 Make the flour, milk and seasonings into a smooth batter, adding the baking powder last of all. Dip each piece of tripe into this batter. Melt the fat in the frying-pan; when quite hot, fry the tripe a nice brown on both sides. Tripe and Onions. Ingredients. One pound of Tripe. Three or four Onions (chopped small). Pepper. Two Cloves. Half pint of Milk. Tablespoonful of Flour. Salt. Mode of Work.—Scald the tripe. Cut into neat pieces, put into a saucepan with the milk and onions and cloves. Simmer very gently for one hour. Mix in the basin one table- spoonful of flour, half teaspoonful of salt, pinch of pepper, with a little cold milk or water till quite smooth. Add this to the tripe and onions and cook for five minutes. LESSON X, Beef Tea. (Cooked or Uncooked.) Ingredients, Four ounces of juicy Beef. One gill of cold Water. Half saltspoonful of Salt. Mode of Work.-—Cut or shred meat very finely, remove all skin and fat. Soak the meat in the salted water for as long as possible. Put all into a saucepan. Bring slowly to the boiling point, pressing the meat against the side of the pan with a6o wooden spoon. Do not let it boil. Use a coarse strainer, or put a knife against the side of the pan, and pour out, so that a few brown particles are retained in the tea. Time to soak beef, one or two hours; time to cook, fifteen minutes. Remove any traces of fat with soft paper. N.B.—If served uncooked, it should be served in a coloured glass. Mutton Broth. Ingredients. One pound of lean Mutton. One pint of cold Water. One teaspoonful of Rice Flour. Pepper. Salt. Mode of Work.—Cut the meat into small pieces. Pour over it the cold water. Let it stand for one hour. Put into a saucepan, keeping back two tablespoonsful of the liquor with which to mix the rice flour. Simmer very gently for one hour. Strain, add the thickening and seasoning, and re-heat. Cup of Arrowroot. Ingredients. Half pint of Milk. One teaspoonful of Sugar. Two teaspoonsful of Arrowroot. For Pudding. One Egg. Mode of Work.—Mix arrowroot with two teaspoonsful of cold milk. Put the remainder of the milk in a saucepan to boil. When boiling pour over the arrowroot, and stir quickly till it thickens. Put back into the saucepan and boil for three minutes. Add sugar. To make a pudding, draw off the fire, add one well beaten egg. Pour into a greased pie-dish, and bake for twenty minutes.Gruel. Ingredients. One tablespoonful of Oatmeal. Sugar. Salt. One pint of Water. Mode of Work.—Take the oatmeal with a pinch of salt, and add by degrees enough cold water to mix it. Add one teaspoon- ful of brown sugar and a little nutmeg. Boil one pint of water, when boiling stir it to the oatmeal; boil for ten minutes. If the oatmeal is coarse it must boil longer, and would be better strained before serving. Porridge. Ingredients. Half a teacupful of Oatmeal (medium). One pint of boiling Water. A saltspoonful of Salt. Mode of Work.—Put the salt in the water, and when boiling sprinkle in the oatmeal and stir with a wooden spoon, stir constantly. Let it boil for three-quarters of an hour and serve with milk, hot or cold, and sugar or treacle. Cup Pudding. Ingredients. One gill or teacupful of Breadcrumbs. One Egg. Flavouring. Two teaspoonsful of Sugar. Milk. Mode of Work.—Beat the egg well, add milk; to this lightly stir the crumbs and flavouring. Add sugar. Put the mixture into a buttered cup. Steam for twenty minutes. Serve hot.62 Invalid’s Pudding. Ingredients. Half ounce of Flour. Half ounce of Butter. Flavouring. One teaspoonful of Sugar. Half gill of Milk. Two Eggs. Mode of Work.—Melt the butter, add the flour, mix, add milk and cook till thick. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs. Add only one yolk to the mixture in the pan, beat mixture well. Add sugar and flavouring. Beat the whites well to a stiff froth. Stir lightly to the mixture, and pour all into a buttered tin, and steam gently for half an hour. Serve with custard made from yolk of egg. Custard. (TO SERVE WITH PUDDING.) Ifigredients. One yolk of Egg. Quarter pint of Milk. One teaspoonful of Sugar. Quarter ounce of Cornflour. Mode of Work.—Mix the cornflour with a little cold milk. Boil the remainder, and when boiling pour to the cornflour. Pour back into the saucepan and boil for ten minutes. Remove from fire, add beaten yolk and sugar ; flavour and serve with pudding. Custard. (Steamed.) Ingredients. One Egg. One teaspoonful of Sugar. Quarter pint of Milk. Butter for greasing jar or cup. Mode of Work.—Beat up the egg and sugar, add the milk,63 and mix thoroughly. Strain into a buttered cup or jar; put a paper over the top. Set the jar in a pan of boiling water and keep by the side of the fire. Do not let it boil. Cook for thirty minutes. When serving let it stand for two minutes after taking from the fire. Baked Custard. Ingredients same as above, baked in slow oven for one hour. Invalid Cake. Ingredients. One Egg. Its weight in Flour, Sugar and Butter. Grated rind of half a Lemon. Pinch of Salt. Mode of Work.—Cream butter, add sugar, beat well. Add beaten egg and flour, alternately, stir in flavouring. Put into greased lined tin and bake for twenty-five minutes A Irish Moss Jelly. Ingredients. Quarter ounce of Irish Moss. One ounce of Sugar. A strip of Lemon Rind. One pint of Milk. Mode of Work.—Soak the moss in cold water over-night. Strain and put it in a pan with the milk and lemon-rind. Simmer very gently for half an hour. Rinse a mould in cold water, strain the jelly into it, when set turn out and serve. May be made with water.64 Egg Jelly. Ingredients. One ounce of French Leaf Gelatine. Six ounces of Loaf Sugar. Half pint of Lemon Juice and Water. Two Lemons. Two Eggs. Half pint of Water. Mode of Work.—Soak the gelatine in half a pint of water. Rub the sugar on the lemons. Put sugar, water and gelatine on fire to dissolve. Squeeze lemon-juice and make up half a pint of liquid with water. Add this to saucepan, and remove from the fire. Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs. Beat the yolks and add to the pan. Put over fire and just bring up to boiling point to set the egg. Whip the whites to stiff froth, add them lightly. Fill a pudding basin with cold water and turn it out. Pour mixture in and stand till quite cold. Turn out. In summer it may be well to use more gelatine. Barley Water. Ingredients. Ounce and a half of Barley. Strip of rind and juice of half a Lemon. One pint of cold Water. Mode of Work—Wash the barley, put it in a saucepan with one pint of cold water, and the rind of the lemon cut as thin as possible. Boil slowly for half an hour. Strain and add the lemon-juice. For babies, leave out the lemon; boil it till thick, strain, and add sugar and milk. Lemonade. Ingredients. One Lemon. Half pint of boiling Water. One ounce of Sugar. Mode of Work.—Peel the lemon very thinly, putting the65 rind into a jug. Remove all the pith of the lemon. Slice thinly, removing the seeds. Put into the jug with the sugar. Pour the boiling water over and cover. When nearly cold, strain and serve. Black Currant Tea. Ingredients. One tablespoonful of Black Currant Jam. Half teaspoonful of Lemon Juice. Half pint of boiling Water. Mode of Work.—Put the jam into a jug, pour the boiling water over. Cover and let it stand till cold. Strain and serve. Linseed Tea. Ingredients. One ounce of Linseed. One quart of Water. Half ounce of Liquorice. Half ounce of Sugar Candy. Strip of Lemon Rind. Mode of Work.—Wash the linseed, put it into a saucepan with the cold water and lemon-rind. Boil gently for one hour. Add liquorice and sugar candy. Strain and serve. Toast Water. Ingredients. One crust of Bread. Half pint of boiling Water. Thin slice of Lemon. Mode of Work.—Slowly toast the bread until quite dry and dark in colour. Put into a jug with the lemon and pour the boiling water over it. Cover and set to stand. When cold, strain and serve. S'66 Lemon Whey. Ingredients. One pint of Milk. Half a Lemon. Sugar to taste. Mode of Work#—Heat the milk with the thin rind of lemon till almost boiling. Add lemon-juice. Let it stand till curdled. Strain through muslin, sweeten and serve. Bread and Milk No. 1. Ingredients. Two slices of Bread. Half pint of Milk. Sugar or Salt to taste. Mode of Work.—Cyt the bread into dice, put it into a basin, and pour the milk (boiling) over it. Cover and let it stand for -five minutes. Serve with sugar or salt. Bread and Milk No. 2. Ingredients. Two slices of Bread. Quarter pint of Milk (boiling). Salt. Boiling Water. Mode of Work.—Cut the bread into dice. Pour boiling water over and cover. Stand it aside for ten minutes. Press the water out well and sprinkle a little salt over. Pour the boiling milk gradually to the bread. Serve hot. To make Tea. Ingredients. Two teaspoonsful of Tea. Half pint of boiling Water. Milk and Sugar to taste. Mode of Work.—Heat the teapot, which should be of earthen-67 ware. Put in the tea, pour freshly boiling water on it, and set to stand for three minutes. Pour out at once, and serve hot. The proportion of tea is one teaspoonful to each person and one over “ for the teapot.” To make Coffee. Ingredie7its. One tablespoonful of ground Coffee. Half pint of boiling Water. Milk and Sugar to taste. Mode of Work.—Warm the jug or coffee-pot. Put the coffee into it, pour the boiling water over it. Stir well, cover and let it stand close to the fire for five minutes. Serve with hot milk. It is better to strain the coffee before using. To make Cocoa. Ingredients. One teaspoonful of Cocoa. One breakfastcupful of boiling Water. Mode of Work.—Put the cocoa into the cup. Remove the spoon. Pour over it the boiling water. Stir well, serve with milk and sugar. This method is suitable for Van Houten’s cocoa. To boil an Egg. Have a small pan of water boiling. Put in the egg, cover at once with the lid. Draw to the side of the fire and let it stand for five minutes. Serve at once.INDEX, PAGE Soups. Bone Stock S Carrot Soup . 8 Clarified Fat . 9 Fish Soup IO Lentil Soup 7 Meat Stock 5 Pea Soup 7 Potato Soup . 6 Pot-au Feu 9 Scotch Broth . 9 Tomato Soup . 8 Vegetable Stock 6 Fish. Baked Fish (Stuffed) 19 Baked Fish (not Stuffed) . 20 Boiled Fish . 19 Finnan Haddock 22 Fish Fried in Batter. 20 Fried Herrings 21 Fried Mackerel 21 Fried Plaice . 21 Haddock and Tomatoes . 22 Kippers, etc., grilled 22 Salt Cod 23 Steamed Haddock , 20 Stewed Fish . 23 Cold Fish. Fish Cakes , 31 Fish Curry . 32 Fish Pudding . . 32 Kedgeree • 32 Meat. Baked Meat . II Boiled Meat . . , . 12 Exeter Stew . . . PAGE . 14 Fried Steak and Onions . 16 Grilled Chop . 16 Hot Pot.... 18 Irish Stew IS Liver and Bacon 17 Liver Collops . 17 Poor Man’s Goose . 18 Ragout of Veal or Rabbit. 13 Roast Meat 11 Sausages and Potatoes 18 Sea Pie .... IS Stewed Meat . 13 Stewed Ox Kidney . 16 Tripe in Batter 58 Tripe in Onions 59 Cold Meat. Curry .... 29 Hash .... 30 Meat Shape 29 Mince .... 3i Savoury Batter 3i Shepherd’s Pie 28 Vegetables. Baked Potatoes . 24 Boiled Artichokes . 26 Boiled Beetroot 26 Boiled Carrots and Parsnips . 25 Boiled Onions 27 Boiled Potatoes 24 Boiled Spinach . 28 Boiled Tomatoes . 27 Boiled Turnips . 25 Boiled green Vegetables . • 27 Mashed Potatoes . 25 Steamed Potatoes a 24 Stewed Onions • 267o PAGE Cold Vegetables. Bubble and Squeak’. . . 33 Colcannon 33 Fried Potatoes 34 Potato Balls . • 34 Pastry. Apple Dumplings . 4i Cornish Pasties 42 Flaky Pastry . 43 Fruit Tart 41 Hot Water Crust 44 Meat Puffs 45 Rough Puff 43 Syrup Tart 45 Welsh Cheese Cakes 44 Puddings. Black Cap Pudding . 58 Bread Fritters . 5° Bread Pudding 48 Brown George. 46 Christmas Pudding . 50 Cold Fruit Pudding . 49 Cornflour Mould 51 Fig Pudding . 48 Fruit Pudding. 46 Macaroni Pudding . 51 Pancakes 58 Rice Mould 49 Rice Pudding . 52 Roly-poly Pudding . 47 Sago Pudding . S2 Sauces. Egg Sauce , 53 Onion Sauce . 54 Parsley Sauce, 1 and 2 53 Sweet Melted Butter 54 Sweet White Sauce . 54 Bread and Cakes. Baking Powder Bread 35 Bread • 34 Brown Bread . 35 PAGE Cocoanut Buns Cornflour Cakes Gingerbread . Josephine Cake Oatmeal Biscuits Potato Cakes . Rock Cakes Scones . Seed Cake Sponge Cakes. Eggs and Savouries. Cheese Pudding . . -57 Eggs and Bacon . . . 56 Macaroni Cheese . . *57 Omelet . . . . -56 Poached Eggs . . . . 55 Scrambled Eggs . . -55 Toasted Cheese . . -57 Sick Room Cookery. Arrowroot . . . .60 Baked Custard . . -63 Barley Water . . . .64 Beef Tea . . . -59 Black Currant Tea ... . 65 Bread and Milk, 1 and 2 '. .66 Cup Pudding . . . .61 Custard . . . . .62 Custard Pudding (Boiled) . . 62 Egg Jelly • • • -64 1 Gruel . . . . .61 Invalid Cake . . . -63 Invalid’s Pudding . . .62 Irish Moss Jelly . . -63 Lemonade . . . .64 Lemon Whey. ... 66 Linseed Tea . . . . 65 Mutton Broth . . . .60 Porridge. . . ’ . .61 Toast Water . . . >65 To boil an Egg . . -67 To make Cocoa . . . 67 To make Coffee . . .67 To make Tea . . . ,66 37 36 39 40 38 37 36 40LONDON : PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL OF COOKERY, BUCKINGHAM PALACE ROAD, S.W., LATE SOUTH KENSINGTON. P L A I N COOKERY RECIPES, AS TAUGHT IN THE SCHOOL. BY MRS. CHARLES CLARKE, THE LADY SUPERINTENDENT. SEVENTH EDITION. LONDON: Printed for the Lady Superintendent, by WILLIAM CLOWES & SONS, Limited, 13, CHARING CROSS, S.W. 1895. All Rights test rued.. . ~ -■ . • ••• • • • *,-»•» •SUMMARY OF RULES, FEES, ETC., OF THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL OF COOKERY. Patron—H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES, K.G. . President—THE DUKE OF WESTMINSTER, K.G. Vice-President—THE MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON, K.G. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The Hon. E. F. Leveson-Gower, M.P., Chairman. Sir Daniel Cooper, Bart., G.C.M.G., Vice-Chairman. The Duke of Abercorn, K.G., C.B. Lieut.-Col. Sir Edmund Y. W. Henderson, James Bateman, Esq., F.R.S. R.E., K.C.B. The Duke of Beaufort, K.G. Earl of Strafford. W. Burdett-Coutts, Esq., M.P. Hon. Edward Lyulph Stanley. A. W. Fitz Roy, Esq. Col. The Hon. W. P. Talbot. Capt. The Hon. John Manners York, R.N. Lady-Superintendent—Mrs. Charles Clarke. Secretary—Mrs. Fox. Students are admitted to train for Teachers either by paying the Fees or by Votes of Subscribers. Classes for Cooks and Students. s. d. Scullery Cleaning, for five Lessons ... IO A.M. to 12 Noon o IO 6 Ten Plain Cookery Demonstrations IO A.M. to 12 Noon o 4 6 Ten High-Class Demonstrations 2 P.M. to 4 P.M. o IO 6 Ten Plain Cookery Practice Lessons IO A.M. to 3 P.M. 2 2 0 Ten High-Class Practice Lessons ... IO A.M. to 3 P.M. 3 3 o Fees to be paid on entry.IV Dishes cooked in the School are for sale every day (except Saturday) at cost price. Classes held in any part of the United Kingdom, if forty people will take tickets at 4J. 6d. for ten lessons, and thirty at ioj. 6d. for ten lessons. Teachers sent to all parts for private lessons at moderate fees. For full particulars, apply to the Secretary of the School. October, 1894. Edith Clarke, Lady Superintendent.I LESSONS IN SCULLERY WORK. To clean an Open Range. First of all rake out all the cinders and dust from the grate, taking out all the clinkers, or bad pieces of coal, that bum and cake on to the firebricks and sides of the grate and choke up the fire. The cinders should be sifted and kept for use. Take a sweep’s brush and sweep down all the soot from the flues and oven; take out the doors of the flues at the back of the stove, and the rings on the top of the oven, and with a flue-brush (like a large bottle- brush) sweep down all the soot into the flue at the far side of the oven ; pull out the long narrow door at the bottom of the oven. All the soot will be found fallen into the space underneath the oven; rake this well out with the iron raker. Having swept away all the soot from the flues of the oven and boiler, and raked it out of the spaces at the bottom of the oven and the boiler, replace all the flue shutters and soot doors and the rings on the top of the oven. Mix some powdered blacklead in a gallipot with a little water into a smooth thick liquid; put this on all over the stove from the top to the bottom with a round blacklead brush ; take another brush—rather a soft one—and brush the stove all over, and then polish it well with the third brush, which is a harder one. The bars of the grate are blackleaded and polished in the same way. The steel bars and knobs are all polished with emery paper, not too coarse, and the brass handles and bolts are polished with bath brickdust and a leather. To clean the hearth, wash it over first with a flannel, hot water, and a little soda to remove the grease. Rub the stone all over with hearthstone, and then wring the flannel out of the hot water and smooth the hearth over, rubbing lightly from left to right. Blacklead and polish the inside of the fender as you did the range, and clean the steel parts with emery paper. The fire-irons must be cleaned in the same manner.VI To clean a Close Kitchen Range. The blackleading and polishing of the range, cleaning the hearthstone and fender, is done exactly as for the open range. The only difference is in the position of the flues and flue doors, and there is a drawer generally under the oven, which pull out and empty of the soot that falls into it from the sweeping of the flues. To lay and light the Fire. Having cleaned and well polished your range, proceed to light the fire. Put a few of the sifted cinders on the bottom of the grate, crumple up some newspaper and put it on the cinders, lay some sticks along the paper, and some more on the top of these across them ; set light to the paper; put a few pieces of coal on the sticks, taking care to leave a good draught. When this has caught light, and burnt up a little, add more coal and cinders. To clean Gas Stoves. Lift off the steel bars, wash the stove with hot water and soda with a flannel to remove the grease; then blacklead and polish as you did the kitchen range. Clean the steel bars with emery paper, and replace them. Clean the brass taps and fittings with bath-brickdust and a leather. If there are tiles to the stove, or hot plate, wash them with a flannel, hot water, and soda, and dry them with a clean cloth. To clean an Iron Saucepan. Put the saucepan into a large tub of hot water and soda, and wash it well inside and out. Scour the inside with sand and yellow soap, rubbing well with the hand, not a flannel. When the inside is quite bright and clean, rinse the saucepan in clean hot water, and dry it with a clean cloth. Do not forget to clean the lid in the same way. To clean Tin, Iron Enamelled and Steel Stewpans. Proceed as above, only tin and steel stewpans and saucepans must be scoured bright both inside and outside; and stains must be removed from the white enamel with salt mixed with the sand. The sand used in cleaning is white or silver sand.vii To clean a Copper Stewpan. Wash the stewpan well in hot water and soda, scour the inside well with sand and salt mixed, double the quantity of sand to salt. Soap your hand well, dip it into the sand and salt, and scour the inside of the stewpan until all the stains are removed, and it is quite bright and clean. Rinse it well in warm water, dry the inside quickly, turn the pan over, and clean the copper outside in the same way, with your hand soaped and dipped in the sand and salt. Any stains on the outside copper may be removed by rubbing it with the half of a used lemon or a little vinegar. When thoroughly bright and clean inside and out, rinse it again in warm water and dry in front of the fire. To clean Kitchen Tables, Paste Boards, and all Kitchen Wooden Goods. Wash the table over with a flannel wrung out of hot water, but on no account use any soda, as this makes the wood a dirty, bad colour. Rub some soap on your scrubbing-brush, dip it in sand, and scrub the table well, following the grain of the wood. Be sure to rinse the table very thoroughly with hot water and a flannel to wash off all the sand, or your cooking will be gritty. Dry the table well with a clean cloth. These rules apply to paste-boards and all wooden things used in the kitchen. To clean Tins. Tins that are not much used can be cleaned with whitening and a leather; but cake tins and strainers, or any tins that are greasy or burnt, should be first washed in hot water and soda, then scoured clean with sand and soap, and rinsed. When dried, they should be polished with whitening mixed to a paste with a little cold water, and rubbed up with a leather. The whitening must be carefully taken out of corners and cracks with an old plate brush.* * Note.—These Scullery Lessons have been written and added to this edition of my Plain Cookery Recipes, by the special request of many of our pupils.RECIPES FOR PLAIN COOKERY. SOUPS. Fish Soup (White). Ingredients. Three pounds of Fish, bones and fins. Three quarts of cold Water. A teaspoonful of Salt. One Leek. One Onion. One Carrot. A good bunch of Parsley or Parsley roots. One Bay-leaf. One sprig of Thyme. Three or four sticks of Celery. Three Cloves. One small blade of Mace. One pint of Milk. One ounce of Fat or Butter. Three teaspoonfuls of Flour. Do not use herrings or mackerel for soup ; ling, conger, hake, or skate are best. Take three pounds of fish, bones and fins do very well, chop them up, wash them, put them into a saucepan with three quarts of cold water and a teaspoonful of salt; when it boils skim it well, and then add the vegetables, previously washed and cut up, also the cloves, mace, and herbs. Let this all boil gently for an hour and a half. Mix the flour into a smooth paste with a gill of milk, stir this into the soup, stir till it boils again to cook the flour, then add the rest of the milk and the butter or clarified fat, and when it has boiled for another ten minutes, strain it into a soup-tureen or basin into which you have previously put a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley and a little cooked carrot nicely shredded. * High Class Recipes in the same form are now published. B2 Bone Soup. Ingredients. Three pounds of Bones, cooked or uncooked. Scraps of Meat or Trimmings. Two Carrots. Two Turnips. One Parsnip. One bunch of Herbs. Two Onions. Twelve Peppercorns. Salt. Two tablespoonfuls of Sago or Semolina. Two ounces of Fat. Fry the bones brown in the fat, then cover with four pints of water. When this boils throw in a dessertspoonful of salt to raise the scum ; skim it well. Prepare the vegetables, and add them, with the herbs and peppercorns, when the soup boils up again. Let it simmer gently four or five hours, skimming occa- sionally. Strain it, and return to the saucepan; thicken it with the sago or semolina. Cabbage Soup. Ingredients. One good-sized Cabbage. One tablespoonful of Parsley. One ounce of Butter. One Shalot. One teaspoonful of Salt. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Pepper. One pint of Milk. One and a half pint of Boiling Water. One tablespoonful of Crushed Tapioca. One slice of toasted Bread. Put on a large saucepan with water to boil, shred the cabbage, and put it in the boiling water to blanch for five minutes; then strain the cabbage, and return it to the saucepan, with the butter, then add one and a half pint of boiling water, one pint of milk, the shalot and the chopped parsley and seasoning; bring this to the boil, and cook it for fifteen minutes, shake in the3 crushed tapioca and boil it for ten minutes. Cut the toasted bread into convenient-sized pieces, put them into a tureen, and pour the boiling soup on to them. Fish Soup (Brown). Ingredients. Three pounds of Fish or Fish Trimmings. Two ounces of Fat or Butter. Bunch of Herbs : Parsley, Bay-leaf, Marjoram, Thyme, and Basil, One Onion. One Leek ; three slicks of Celery. One small Carrot. Twelve whole Peppers ; Salt. Two ounces of Rice. Three quarts of Water. Three ounces of Flour. Chop up the onion, leek, celery, and carrot. Add the flour, pepper, salt, herbs, and fry them a nice brown in the fat. Put the lid on the saucepan, and let these cook for about ten minutes. Take care it does not burn. Then add three quarts of cold water, and the fish cut up. Stir till it boils. Let it boil for one hour, then strain it, and put into the tureen about two ounces of rice, previously boiled, and a little shredded carrot, cooked separately. Pour the soup on these, and serve. Fish Mulligatawny. Ingredients. Three pounds of Fish or Fish Trimmings. Two ounces of Butter or Fat. Three Cloves. Two Onions or Leeks. One Apple or a stick of Rhubarb. One Carrot. A bunch of Herbs : Thyme, Marjoram, Bay-leaf and Parsley, Three tablespoonfuls of Flour. Two ounces of Curry Powder. Four quarts and half a pint of Water. Salt. Cut up the fish and wash it clean. Put it into a saucepan with the fat or butter, the apples and the vegetables washed, B 24 peeled, and cut up, and the herbs. Let all this cook for about ten minutes ; then add four quarts of cold water. Mix the flour and curry powder into a smooth paste, with half a pint of cold water, and stir it into the soup. Stir till it boils, then skim it well, and let it boil gently for an hour and a half. Strain it into a tureen, and add to it one pint of cooked rice and some pieces of cooked fish neatly cut up. Hotch Potch. Ingredients. Three pounds of Neck of Mutton (scrag end). Three quarts of cold Water. Of Carrots, Turnips, and Cauliflower, one pint. One Lettuce. Three-quarters of a pint of Green Teas. Half pint of Broad Beans. Two Onions or Leeks. One teaspoonful of Salt. Half a teaspoonful of Pepper. Two teaspoonfuls of Sugar. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Cut up the meat into small pieces, and put it on in cold water with the salt; let it come to the boil, and well skim it. Scrape the carrots and cut them up ; peel the turnips and cut them up. Break up the cauliflower into little sprigs, and shred the lettuce; shell the peas, shell the beans, and chop up the onions. Put all these vegetables when prepared in with the meat; add the pepper. Let this boil slowly for three or four hours, according to the age of the vegetables. Just before serving, stir in the sugar, and last of all the chopped parsley. Haricot Puree. Ingredients. One pint of Haricot Beans. One Onion. One teaspoonful of Salt. Pepper. Pint of Milk. Two quarts of Water. Soak the haricot beans in cold water all night. Take the soaked beans and put them in a saucepan with the water andsalt, also a sliced onion ; put it on the fire and let it boil gently for four hours. After that time pass the contents through a colander into a basin, stir in the milk, add pepper and salt, and pour the puree back into the saucepan to warm; stir in while it is warming, then pour it into a hot soup-tureen. Lentil Soup. Ingredients. One pint of Red Lentils. One Onion. Three sticks of Celery. One ounce of Dripping. Pepper and Salt. Two quarts of Water. Soak the lentils all night in cold water. Put the dripping into a saucepan, wash the lentils well, and put them in the saucepan, with the sliced onion, and the celery cut in small pieces; put the saucepan on the fire and stir for five minutes. Now add two quarts of cold water. Let the soup boil gently till the lentils are quite soft. Pass the soup through a hair sieve, pour it back into the saucepan, add pepper and salt to taste, and warm it again over the fire. Fried bread should be served with it. If celery is out of season, the seed may be substituted for it. Macaroni Soup. Ingredients. Bones. One tablespoonful of Salt and Peppercorns. One good-sized Turnip and four Leeks. Two Carrots. Two Onions, two Cloves, and a blade of Mace. A bunch of Herbs. Quarter of a pound of Macaroni. Break the bones up in small pieces, and put them in a saucepan with enough water to cover them and one quart more, put it on to boil; when boiling add some salt. Wash and cut up the vegetables, i.e. carrots, turnip, leeks, and onions with the cloves stuck in; skim the soup well, and put in these vegetables, also6 the rnace and peppercorns, let it simmer gently for two hours and a half, then strain it. Boil the macaroni in a separate sauce- pan with a little salt for half an hour; then cut the macaroni up into pieces of an inch in length. When the soup is ready for use, put the macaroni into a soup-tureen, and pour the hot soup over it. Milk Soup. Ingredients. Two pounds of Potatoes. Two Leeks or Onions. Two ounces of Butter. Quarter ounce of Salt. Pepper. One pint of Milk. One and a half tablespoonful of crushed Tapioca. One teaspoonful of Celery Seeds, or three outside leaves of Celery. Wash, scrub and peel the potatoes, cut them in slices, cut the onions or leeks in slices. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, add the vegetables, put the stewpan on the fire and cook the vegetables for five minutes. Then pour on to them two quarts of boiling water, add pepper and salt, and let the whole boil till done to a mash. Pass it through a wire sieve. Return the soup to the saucepan with one pint of milk. When it boils, sprinkle in the tapioca and boil till the tapioca is clear. Stir occasionally. Mulligatawny Soup. Ingredients. Two pounds of Australian Mutton. Two Apples. One Leek. Two Carrots. One Turnip. Two good-sized Onions. One teaspoonful of Moist Sugar. Two tablespoonfuls of Flour. One tablespoonful of Curry Powder. Salt. A bouquet of Herbs. Open the tin of mutton, carefully remove all the fat from the top, and turn the mutton into a basin with two quarts of warm water. Peel the apples, cut them in quarters, cut out the core, and put them in a saucepan with the fat from the mutton, also the7 turnip and onion. Peel the leeks, scrape, wash, and cut up the carrots, and put them also into the saucepan; then add the herbs, and let the whole fry for about ten minutes, stirring them occa- sionally. Mix the flour and curry powder with some liquor from the mutton, and stir it in with the vegetables with some more liquor; now put the meat and remaining liquor into the saucepan, and let it come to a boil. When it boils, put the salt and sugar to it, and move it to the side of the Are to simmer for two hours and a half, skimming it occasionally. After that time pass the soup through a wire sieve, and pour it back into the saucepan to get hot. Serve with rice. Mutton Broth. Ingredients. Three pounds of the scrag end of the neck of Mutton. Two ounces of Pearl Barley or Rice. A teaspoonful of Salt. One Turnip. One Onion. One Carrot. Two Leeks. One teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. Cut the mutton up into small joints and put it into a saucepan with three quarts of cold water, a teaspoonful of salt, and put it on the fire to boil; draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer for one hour and a half, skimming it well. Now add all the vegetables cut up into dice, and the rice, and let it simmer gently half an hour till the vegetables are done. Just before serving, add the chopped parsley. Pea Soup, No. 1. Ingredients. One pint of Split Peas. Two Onions. One Turnip. One Carrot. One head of Celery. Teaspoonful of Salt. Half a teaspoonful of Pepper Cooked or uncooked Bones. Soak the split peas for twelve hours, and put them on in two quarts of cold water. Wash and cut up the vegetables, and when the water boils put therp in with the peas; also add the8 bones, salt, and pepper, and let it boil slowly for two hours, stirring it occasionally. After that time take out the bones, and rub the contents of the saucepan through a colander or a sieve; it is then ready for serving. Serve with dried mint and toast cut into dice. Pea Soup, No. 2. Ingredients. One quart of Peas. Three quarts of Water. One Carrot. One Turnip. Three Onions. A handful of green tops of Celery. Parsley. Thyme. Bay-leaf. Salt and Pepper. Soak the peas all night in cold water, and next day put them on to cook in three quarts of water. Chop up the onions, carrot, turnip, celery, and parsley very small, add them to the peas, also the thyme and bay leaf, salt and pepper. Boil for three or four hours. Any pieces of bread may be cut up and served in this soup. Pot-au-Feu. Ingredients. Four pounds of Beef. Two ounces of Sago, or Tapioca for the Soup. Half ounce of Salt, two Turnips. Two Carrots, two Leeks. One Parsnip, one small head of Celery. Two or three sprigs of Parsley. One Cabbage. One Bay-leaf, Thyme, Marjoram, one Onion, three Cloves. Put six quarts of water into a large pot, tie the meat in a shape and put it in, and when it is boiling put in the salt. Wash the vegetables well, cutting the green off the leeks and celery. When the Pot-au-feu has boiled gently for one hour, add to it all the vegetables except the cabbage, tie the herbs together and put them also into the pot, peel the onion and stick the cloves into it and put that into the pot. When these ingredients have been boiling for five hours, cut the cabbage in two, wash it well, tie it9 together and put it into the pot. Let this simmer gently for one hour. After that time dish the meat and garnish with the vege- tables. Serve the cabbage on a hot vegetable-dish. Strain the liquor through a colander into a basin to cool and then remove the fat. When the soup is wanted, put two quarts of the liquor into a saucepan to boil, put to it, stirring all the while, the two ounces of sago, and let it boil for fifteen minutes, when it will be ready for use. Scotch Broth. Ingredients. Four pounds of Scrag of Mutton. Six quarts of cold Water. One tablespoonful of Salt. One Carrot. Half a teaspoonful of Pepper. One Turnip. One Onion. Two Leeks. One tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. Half a head of Celery. Two tablespoonfuls of Scotch Barley. Cut the mutton up into neat pieces, wash it in cold water, put it into a stewpan with a tablespoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and six quarts of cold water ; keep it well skimmed, and let it boil for two hours. Then add the vegetables cut up into dice, and two tablespoonfuls of Scotch barley previously washed. Let this simmer half an hour, then add the chopped parsley. The meat can be left in the broth, or else taken out before the vegetables are added. Semolina Soup. Ingredients. One quart of second Stock. Two tablespoonfuls of Semolina. Half pint of Milk. Salt and Pepper. Put the stock on to boil,and when boiling stir in the semolina; let it boil for ten minutes, then add the milk, pepper and salt. Let it warm, stirring all the while, and when warm it is ready for serving.IO Shin of Beef Soup. Ingredients. Four pounds Shin of Beef, meat and bone. Two Carrots. One Turnip. One Onion. A bunch of Herbs. Three sticks of Celery. Pepper and Salt. Two ounces of Dripping. One tablespoonful of crushed Tapioca or small Sago. Cut the meat off the bones in small pieces, remove the marrow and break up the bone. Melt the dripping in a large stewpan, fry the pieces of meat in it; pour off the dripping and add five pints of water and the bones. Whilst this is boiling up prepare the vegetables; scrape the carrot, cut it in quarters, peel the turnip and onion, cut them in quarters, cut up the celery in pieces. When the soup begins to boil throw in one tablespoonful of salt, to allow the scum to rise; skim it well, then add the vegetables and bunch of herbs; boil it gently three hours, then strain it and thicken it with crushed tapioca or sago, boil for ten minutes and serve. If liked, the meat may be cut off all in one piece, tied up with string, fried in the dripping and cooked as a joint in the soup. It will take four hours. Serve with brown sauce poured over the meat. Skate Soup. Ingredients. Two pounds of Skate. Two pounds of Ling. Lemon peel. Bunch of Sweet Herbs. Two blades of Mace. Whole Peppers. Parsley. Horse-radish. The crust of a penny Roll. One ounce of Vermicelli. Six quarts of Water. Boil two pounds of skate in six quarts of water. When cooked take out the fish and pick it from the bones; put the fish on oneside, and return the bones to the liquor with two pounds of ling, the peel of a small lemon, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, two blades of mace, a piece of horse-radish, and the crust of a penny roll. Let this all boil for three hours, till reduced to two quarts, then strain it off; add one ounce of vermicelli to the liquor, and let it boil gently till it is cooked. Just before serving put in some nice pieces of the skate. The rest of the skate can be served separately with parsley and butter sauce. Spring Soup Maigre. Ingredients. Half a small Cabbage (white heart best). One Carrot. Half a Turnip. The Flower of a small Cauliflower. Two Leeks. A head of Celery. One Onion. Pepper and Salt. Quarter of a pound of Butter. Two quarts of Water. Four thin slices of Bread and Butter. A tablespoonful of Brown Sugar. Shred all the vegetables very finely; put them into a saucepan with the quarter of a pound of butter, a little pepper and salt, and the sugar, and let them cook for fifteen or twenty minutes; then add two quarts of cold water, and let them boil gently for one hour with the lid off. Butter three or four slices of bread; put them in the oven to brown. Put these slices of bread into the soup- tureen, and pour the soup on to them. Any fresh vegetables in season can be used; lettuce is very good. Vegetable Soup. Ingredients. Two Carrots. Two Turnips. One Leek. One Onion. One stick of Celery. Two ounces of Butter. One pint of Water. Half pint of Milk. One ounce of Flour. Half a teaspoon of castor Sugar, Salt. One Bay-leaf.12 Shred the vegetables and put them in a saucepan with the butter, which must be melted but not hot. Cook them over the fire, but do not let them brown. Then add the castor sugar, buy- leaf, and water, and boil for about ten minutes, until the vegetables are tender. Mix the flour and milk together, pour into the saucepan, and boil for a few minutes to cook the flour, stirring carefully. Take out the bay-leaf, add the salt, and the soup is ready. Penny Dinner Soup. Ingredients. Half-pound fine Oatmeal. One pound Lentils. One pound of mixed Vegetables (turnips, carrots, parsnips, One pound of mashed Potatoes. [leeks and celery). Pepper, Salt, dried Mint. One gallon of Water. The lentils should be soaked over night; these, with all the vegetables chopped up as fine as possible, should be put on first, and when nearly boiling, the oatmeal must be sprinkled in and stirred, so that it does not gather into lumps ; let this boil well for two hours, just at the last add the mashed potatoes and the mint. It is an improvement to stir in a lump of butter before serving, but this can be left out if preferred. FISH. Baked Fish. Butter a tin and put the fish on it, sprinkling a little pepper and salt over it. Butter a sheet of kitchen paper, and cover the fish closely over with it. Put this in the oven, and when the fish is cooked—it will take from ten minutes to half an hour, according to the size of the fish—take off the paper, put the fish on a dish, and sprinkle over it a little finely chopped parsley; then strain over it the liquor on the tin in which the fish was baked : this is the essence of the fish. Serve very hot. Almost all fish is nice cooked this way.13 Boiled Fish. Put a saucepan or fish-kettle of water on the fire to boil. Clean the fish thoroughly in cold water, and put it on to a strainer or dish. When the water is warm, put the fish in and some salt (there should be enough water to cover the fish). Let it simmer gently from twenty minutes to three-quarters of an hour, according to the size of the fish. Skim it occasionally. When we find the skin of the fish is cracking, we shall know that it is sufficiently boiled. Take it carefully out, place on a hot dish, and serve with melted butter or egg-sauce. Broiled Herrings (Mustard Sauce). Ingredients. Three Fresh Herrings. One ounce Flour. Half-pint Vinegar. Six whole Peppers. One Onion. One teaspoonful of Mustard. Cut the heads off the fish, wash them clean, dry them in a clean cloth, notch them across with your knife, flour them, and broil them. Take the heads and smash them up, boil them in vinegar with six whole peppers and one onion for a quarter of an hour, then strain them. Mix one ounce butter, half-ounce flour, and a teaspoonful of mustard; stir this into the vinegar till it thickens and is cooked. Pour the same over the herrings, and serve. To Broil Herrings and Cabbage. Ingredients. One Cabbage. One ounce Butter. Pepper and Salt. Red Herrings. Boil a cabbage till quite tender; strain it, and put it into a saucepan with one ounce of butter or fat, and a little pepper and salt; stir it that it does not burn, and chop it up with the spoon. Flour and broil some red herrings, put the cabbage on a dish, lay the fish on it, and serve very hot.H To Broil Mackerel. Ingredients. Two Mackerel. One Yolk of Egg. N utmeg. Lemon Peel. Chopped Thyme and Parsley. Pepper and Salt, and few Bread-crumbs. A little Flour. Cut off the heads. Pull out the roes at the neck end, boil them in a little water. Bruise the roes with a spoon. Beat up the yolk of an egg, and add to it a little grated nutmeg and lemon peel, a little chopped parsley and thyme, pepper and salt, and a few bread-crumbs. Mix all well together, and stuff the mackerel with it. Flour the fish well, broil them, and serve with melted butter. To Broil Weavers. Wash them clean, cut off their heads and skin them ; flour them well, and broil them a nice brown. Serve with melted butter. A Cake of Cold Fish. Ingredients, Half pound cold Fish. Two ounces Bread-crumbs. One Onion. Half ounce Fat or Butter. Half gill of Milk or Fish Liquor. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Two yolks and one white of Egg. Grease a cake-tin, and well cover it over with bread-crumbs that have been browned in the oven. Mince the onion and parsley and cook them in a saucepan in the fat, mince the fish and stir into the fried onion and parsley. Take the saucepan off the fire and stir in the bread-crumbs, the milk or liquor and the eggs beaten. Pour this all into the cake-tin and bake in a moderate oven three-quarters of an hour. Turn out and serve with melted butter.IS Conger Pie. Ingredients. One pound of Conger. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley One teaspoonful of chopped Onion. One teaspoonful of chopped Suet. One teaspoonful of Flour. Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg, and Mixed Herbs. Mix the above ingredients all together; cut the fish into neat pieces, and lay them in a pie-dish, sprinkle a little of the seasoning between each layer of fish till the dish is full; put two ounces of butter on the top in little pieces. Make a paste as follows:— One pound of Flour. Five ounces of clarified Fat or Butter. A teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Salt. Water. Rub the fat well into the flour; add baking-powder, a little salt, and enough water to make a paste. Flour a board and roll the paste out two or three times. Wet round the edge of the pie-disli with cold water, cut a slip of the paste, and lay it on the edge of the dish ; wet this edge of paste again, and cover over the dish with the rest of the paste, close the edges neatly round, cut off the remaining paste; make a hole in the top of the pie, and bake in a moderate oven one hour. Make a richer crust if you like, by using three-quarters of a pound of flour and half a pound of fat or butter, and no baking-powder. Curried Fish. Ingredients. One pound of Fish. One Apple or a stick of Rhubarb. Two ounces of Fat or Butter. Two Onions ; one pint of Water or Fish Liquor. One tablespoonful of Curry Powder. One tablespoonful of Flour. Salt and Pepper. A teaspoonful of Lemon Juice or Vinegar.i6 Cut up the onion, apple, or rhubarb into small pieces and put them into a saucepan with the butter or fat, and let them fry till they are brown. Then stir the curry powder and flour to them. Add the salt and pepper, and stir in gradually one pint of water or fish liquor. Let this all boil up and simmer gently for half an hour. Just at the last, stir in the lemon juice or vinegar. Then strain it, returning it to the saucepan with the one pound of fish cut up into nice pieces, to get hot through. If you have no cold fish, but cook some on purpose to curry, boil it in one pint of water, and use this water to make the curry of. Serve the curry in a border of boiled rice. Dried Haddocks. These fish should be scalded before they are cooked. Put a dried haddock into a basin or a pie-dish, and pour boiling water over it. Let it soak in this for about five minutes, then take it out of the water and skin it; dry it in a clean cloth, put it on a buttered tin, cover it with buttered paper, and bake it in the oven for about ten minutes. When it is cooked, strain over it the liquor left on the tin in which it was baked; put a little piece of cold butter on it, and serve. Dried Haddock and Tomatoes. Ingredients. One dried Haddock. One small Onion. Two Tomatoes. One ounce of Butter. Pepper and Salt and Parsley. Soak the fish for three or four hours, then skin it, take out all the bones and break up the fish into flakes. Slice the onion and tomatoes, chop up the parsley, sprinkle with pepper and salt and cook all in the butter till quite soft; then add the fish and cook for ten minutes longer. Dish up in a border of boiled rice or mashed potato.17 Fish Pasties and Patties. Ingredients. One pound of Fish. Half pound of Potatoes. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of chopped Onion. A little Sweet Herbs. One pound of Flour. Five ounces of Fat. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. First make the paste. Rub the fat well into the flour, then add the baking-powder, a pinch of salt, and enough cold water to mix it into a stiff paste. Flour a board and roll out the paste two or three times, then cut it out into round pieces with a saucepan-lid or a cutter. Cut up the fish and potatoes into small pieces and place a little fish and potato on each piece of paste, sprinkle over this a little of the chopped parsley, onion, herbs, pepper and salt, and a few drops of fish liquor. Wet round the edge of the paste with cold water, fold it over and pinch the two edges together in plaits. Put these pasties on a baking sheet into the oven and bake for about half an hour. The same ingredients will make patties. For these roll the paste out thin, line some patty-pans with it, fill them with the fish, potato, and seasoning as above, cover over neatly with paste and bake about half an hour. Fish Pie with Potato Crust. Ingredients. One pound of cold Fish. Pepper and Salt. One and a half pounds of cold Potatoes. One ounce of Dripping. Two tablespoonfuls of Milk. Rub the potatoes through a sieve, if you have one • if not, put them into a basin and break them up well with a fork. Melt the dripping with half the milk and stir into the potatoes. Break the fish up into small pieces, put it into a pie-dish, and sprinkle it with pepper and salt; add the rest of the milk or some fish liquor. Cover the pie-dish with the mashed potato, smooth it neatly with a knife dipped in hot water, mark it over with a fork, and bake it for three-quarters of an hour. ci8 Fish Pudding. Ingredients. One pound of Fish. Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. Four ounces of Suet. Two Eggs. One gill of Milk, or Fish Liquor. A teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Pepper and Salt. Take all the bones and skin away from the fish, chop the suet very finely, put these ingredients into a mortar and pound well together; add the bread-crumbs, eggs, parsley, fish-liquor, and season with pepper and salt. When well pounded and mixed put into a pudding-basin and boil or steam for one hour. Serve with egg sauce. Fried Fish in Batter. Ingredients. Four ounces of Flour. One gill of tepid Water. One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. Salt. The Whites of two Eggs. (These may be left out.) Put the flour into a large basin, with half a saltspoonful of salt, stir in gradually the salad oil and tepid water. One ounce of butter or fat will do instead of oil, if more convenient, but it must be melted before it is added to the flour. Beat the whites of egg to a stiff froth and stir them into the flour very lightly. In winter, clean snow can be used instead of the whites of eggs. All batter is the better for standing before it is used ; but if you make it without any egg, it must stand about four hours. Take the fish you are going to fry off the bones, and cut it up into nice- sized pieces; dip them into the batter, taking them in and out With a skewer, and fry them in boiling fat. Mind, the fat must be hell strained after this, as pieces of the batter will be sure to Stick tD Whatever is next fried in it.19 Fish Omelet. Ingredients. Dried Haddock. One dessertspoonful of grated Cheese (Parmesan). Cayenne, Salt, Nutmeg. Three Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Break the eggs, separating the yolks and whites, sprinkle into the yolks a little salt, cayenne, nutmeg, and the cheese; stir all together. Take a good tablespoonful of cooked dried haddock, and cut it up into small pieces. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of egg, and whip to a stiff froth. Stir the whipped whites very lightly to the yolks, etc. Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet pan, pour in the eggs, let them just set a little, then put ia tthe fish, and stir all together till the omelet is cooked, turn it towards the handle of the pan, and with the spoon turn it over for a moment, and then turn it out on to a hot dish. Fish Cakes. Ingredients. One pound of Fish. Half pound of Potato. One ounce of Butter. Two Eggs. Pepper and Salt. One tablespoonful of Milk. Boil the fish as shown in the “ Boiled Fish ” recipe, or use up any remains of cold fish for this purpose. Cold potatoes may also be used instead of boiling fresh ones; put the potatoes through a wire sieve. Put the butter and milk into a stewpan ; when hot add the potato, the pieces of fish broken up small, the yolk of one egg; salt and cayenne pepper. Make the mixture up into balls of one tablespoonful each, flatten them into cakes, brush them over with egg, cover with bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat. This mixture may be made into a fish pudding. Grease a flat tin, and shape the mixture as much like a fish as possible, brush it over with egg, and bake for a quarter of an hour. C 220 Fish and Potato Salad. Ingredients. A tablespoonful of mashed Potatoes. A tablespoonful of Milk. Two tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of Vinegar. Dessertspoonful of Mustard ready made. Pepper and Salt; a little Sugar. Cold Fish. Salad as in season. Mash the potatoes while they are warm, and stir to them the oil, vinegar, mustard, pepper, salt, sugar and milk; mix well and stir to a smooth dressing. Well wash the salad, lettuce, etc., according to the season, shake the water well off the leaves and dry lightly in a clean cloth. Then tear up the leaves lightly with your hands—salad should not be cut up—put this on a dish, break up any pieces of cold cooked fish you may have and put on the salad, pouring the dressing of potato, oil, etc., over it all. Fricassee (White). Ingredients. One pound Fish. Half pint Water. Quarter pint Milk. Mace, Nutmeg, sweet Herbs. One ounce Butter, one ounce Flour. A few drops of Lemon Juice. Put the butter and flour into a stew-pan and mix well together. When well mixed pour in the milk, stir well, let it boil till the flour is cooked (about ten minutes). Fillet the fish, and put the bones into half a pint of water, with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of fait. When this has boiled for half an hour, strain it, and stir it into the milk. Put the fish into this sauce, and let it cook for fifteen minutes. Just before serving add a few drops of lemon juice. Fricassee (Brown). Ingredients. One ounce Flour. One pound Fish. One ounce Butter or Fat. Pepper, Salt, bunch of sweet Herbs. Blade of Mace, teaspoonful of Lemon Juice. One Onion. Half pint of Fish Stock or Water.21 Cut up the fish, and roll each piece in a little flour, and fry it a nice brown. Fry one ounce flour in one ounce butter or fat, and stir in a little pepper, ground mace, one onion chopped up, a small bunch of herbs, and a little salt. When this has all fried a good brown, add half pint of fish stock, or water, and stir all together till the flour thickens and is cooked; then strain it, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice or vinegar. Put the pieces of fried fish into this sauce, make all hot together, and serve. Fried Plaice. Ingredients. One Plaice. - One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Fat for frying. Wash and dry the fish, cut it up into slices or fillets. Dry the pieces with a little flour, mixed with a little pepper and salt, break an egg on to a plate, brush the fish over well with the egg, shake it in some bread-crumbs, press them firmly on with the palm of the hand. Put the pieces of fish into a stewpan of hot fat — they must not touch each other in the fat; when fried brown, take each piece out carefully on to some kitchen paper to drain. Dish in a circle, with fried parsley in the centre. Haddock Stuffed and Baked. Ingredients. One Haddock. Two tablespoonfuls of Bread-crumbs. One dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of chopped Herbs. Pepper and Salt. Two ounces of Suet. One Egg. Two ounces of Fat. Wash the fish clean and dry it in a cloth. Mix two table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs with the chopped herbs and parsley; add pepper and salt to taste, and two ounces of chopped suet. Stuff the stomach of the fish with this mixture, and sew it up. Egg and bread-crumb the fish, and truss it in the shape of the letter S. Put it on a greased tin and bake it for half an hour, basting it frequently with dripping. Before serving, take out the cotton which sewed the fish.22 Herring Pie. Ingredients, Three Herrings. One blade of Mace, ground. One Apple. One Onion. l’epper and Salt. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Half gill of Water or Fish Liquor. Half ounce of Fat or Butter. Cut off the heads and tails of the herrings, and sprinkle a little pepper, salt and ground mace over them. Grease a pie-dish, and lay the fish in it. Cover the fish with chopped apple, onion and parsley, and put little pieces of fat or butter on the top. Add half gill of fish-liquor or water. Cover with a nice crust as in conger- pie, and bake one hour. Herring Toast Sandwich. One Bloater. Choose a bloater for this purpose, not too dry, split it in two down the back, lay it upon a plate and pour a pint of boiling water over it, let it soak five minutes; place it upon a cloth to dry, then broil it very gradually upon a gridiron. When well done, which will be in about five minutes, have ready two thin slices of toast made very crisp, butter them lightly, then take away all bones from the herring, lay the fleshy parts equally upon one piece of toast, and cover with the other. Serve very hot. Kedgeree. Ingredients. Half a pound of boiled Fish. Quarter of a pound of Rice. Two Eggs. Two ounces of Butter. Cayenne Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg.23 Wash and boil the rice ; boil the eggs very hard ; break the fish in pieces, and carefully remove all the bones ; take the eggs, break off the shell, and cut the whites into small square pieces. When the boiled rice is dry, melt the butter in a stewpan, and add the rice to it; then add the fish, white of egg, cayenne pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and salt. Mix them well together, and serve on a hot dish, and sprinkle the yolks of egg over it. Dried haddock makes very nice kedgeree. Potted Fish. Ingredients. Six Herrings or three Mackerel. Thirty Peppercorns. One blade of Mace. One Shalot. One gill of Vinegar. Salt. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly; it can be cut in thick pieces, or the head may be taken off, the bone removed; season with a little salt, and roll the herring up. Place the fish in a stone jar with the flavourers and vinegar, tie a piece of brown paper tightly over it and place in a slow oven for two hours, or it may cook in a baker’s oven all night. Salt Fish Pie. Ingredients. One pound Salt Fish. Two ounces Bread-crumbs. Parsley, Nutmeg and Pepper. One teaspoonful of Mustard. One ounce of Butter or Fat. Two gills of Milk. Soak the fish all night, then boil it. Take away the skin and bones, and mince it up finely. Boil the crumbs in the milk with the butter, mustard, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; mix all this with the fish, grease a pie-dish and put the mixture into it, cover with a crust of mashed potato, and bake in a quick oven till the potato is a golden brown.24 To Steam Fish. In a small house, where you have not got a fish-steamer, fish can easily be steamed in a fish-kettle by putting a basin in, and standing the strainer on the basin with enough water to come half-way up the basin. As the water boils away, add more boiling water from the kettle. If you have only a saucepan and no fish- kettle, turn a pie-dish upside down in the saucepan and place the fish on the dish, anything just to raise the fish out of the water, and let it cook in the steam. One thing is quite necessary, and that is a tightly fitting cover to whatever you steam in, to keep the steam well round the fish, or it will not cook properly, but will get sodden and nasty. Fish takes rather longer to steam than to boil, and some kinds of fish take more cooking than others. When it begins to crack, and leaves the bone easily, it is cooked. Stewed Eels (White Sauce). Ingredients. One pound of Eels. Half-pint of Water. One ounce of Flour. One ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Cayenne Pepper and Salt. Cut the head off the eel, skin it from the head down, clean it well, cut it up into pieces two or three inches in length, and put it into a stewpan with half-pint of cold water ; when it boils, skim it well, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Mix one ounce of flour into a smooth paste with a little cold water, add a little cayenne pepper and salt, and stir this to the eels ; let it boil about five minutes longer to cook the flour. At the last, stir in one ounce of butter and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve, putting the pieces of fish in the centre of a dish, and pouring the sauce all around them.25 Stewed Eels (Brown Sauce). Ingredients. A pint of good Gravy or Meat Stock. One pound Eels. One Onion. Sweet Herbs. Whole Peppers ; a little Salt. A blade of Mace. A dessertspoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. One ounce Butter. Half-ounce Flour. Fry the onion chopped up, with the herbs and the flour in the butter, till a nice brown ; then stir in the pint of gravy, the mace and peppers, and a pinch of salt. Cut the eel up into pieces and add it; let it stew slowly till the fish is cooked, about half an hour. Take out the fish, add a spoonful of mushroom ketchup to the sauce, give it a quick boil up, strain it over the fish, and serve very hot. Stewed Conger. Ingredients. One pound of Conger. Half-pint of Water. Cloves, Mace, Whole Pepper. Herbs, Thyme, Marjoram, and Bay-leaf. Parsley. One Onion. One ounce of Flour. One ounce of Butter. One gill of Milk. Cut up the fish into convenient pieces, and cook it gently in half-pint of water, with one small onion cut up, a blade of mace, three cloves, a few whole peppers, and a bunch of herbs. When cooked take out the pieces of fish and strain off the liquor; mix one ounce of flour with one ounce of butter, stir it into the liquor over the fire until the flour is cooked, then add one gill of milk, a pinch of salt, and a little chopped parsley. Pour this sauce over the fish and serve.26 Scolloped Fish. Ingredients. Cold cooked Fish of any kind. Bread-crumbs. Butter. Pepper and Salt. Fish Liquor. Butter a scollop tin, sprinkle on it a layer of bread-crumbs, then a layer of fish broken up into pieces, some pepper, salt, and bits of butter; cover this with more bread-crumbs and bits of butter, pour on a little drop of fish-liquor and bake ten minutes. Very Simple Water Souch£. Ingredients. Plaice, Dabs, or Flounders. Water. Salt. Parsley. Take plaice, dabs, or flounders, wash them clean, cut off the fms, and put the fish into a stewpan with just enough cold water to cover them; add a little salt and a good bunch of parsley; boil gently till the fish is cooked. Strain the liquor into a tureen, put in the fish and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Hand parsley and butter sauce. Water Souche (another way). Ingredients. Flounders or Dabs. One Onion. One small Carrot. Parsley. Salt. One gill of Milk. Thoroughly clean the fish, and put it into a saucepan with cold water—enough to cover it; add a little salt, the onion and carrot shredded, and a handful of parsley chopped finely. Boil gently till the fish is cooked, then add as much milk as will turn the water white, about one gill. Serve all together in a soup tureen.2 7 Grilled Fish. Mackerel, herring, pilchards, and dried salmon are generally grilled. The gridiron bars must be greased, and the fish peppered before it is put on. When it is done a little salt, and, if liked, a little butter is put on. Salmon is sometimes wrapped in greased writing paper to broil. A slice of salmon takes a quarter of an hour to broil. Wash the ox-cheek well, rub some salt over it, and cut it up into neat pieces about one inch square ; cut the meat off the bones of the cow-heel into neat pieces. Flour the pieces of ox-cheek and fry them in three ounces of dripping in a large saucepan; slice the carrots and onions, and put them with the bunch of herbs into the saucepan; add the pieces of cow-heel and the proper quantity of water, allowing one pint of water to every pound of meat. Put two tablespoonfuls of flour into a basin, mix it to a smooth paste with a little cold water; stir the paste smoothly into the saucepan, add pepper and salt to taste. Let the stew boil up and simmer gently for three hours. Stir it often; serve in a large dish or soup-tureen. The bones of the cow-heel may be put in the stock-pot. A la Mode Beef. No. 1. Ingredients. One Cow-heel. One Ox-cheek. Three ounces of Dripping. Three Carrots. Six Onions. One bunch of Herbs. Two tablespoonfuls of Flour. Pepper and Salt.28 A la Mode Beef. No. 2. Ingredients. One pound of Beef pieces or Ox Cheek. Half a Cowheel. Three good sized Onions. One Carrot. A bunch of Herbs. Two tablespoonfuls of Flour. Two quarts of Water. Pepper and Salt. One ounce of Fat or Butter. Wash the meat well and cut it up small, cut the onions and carrot into slices, add the herbs ; fry all this for a few minutes in the fat, then add the flour, and when it is brown pour in two quarts of water, a little pepper and salt; let this stew for two hours. Make a few dumplings from the recipe for the paste for Rabbit Pudding, boil these for twenty minutes, and the stew is ready to serve. To Bake a Joint. Weigh the joint and allow fifteen minutes to every pound of meat, or twenty minutes if the joint is solid meat without any bone. To bake a joint you require a double tin which holds hot water, so that the steam from the water prevents the dripping from the meat from burning and making an unpleasant smell. Place the trivet the meat stands on, on the hot water tin, flour the meat and put it on the trivet in the oven. For the first five minutes keep the oven very hot, then open the ventilator to allow the steam to escape, or the meat will be sodden. Baste the joint and turn it over occasionally; just before serving sprinkle a little salt over the joint. Make the gravy as for roast joint (see page 37). To Boil a Joint. Put a saucepan full of water on the fire to boil. Weigh your joint and allow fifteen minutes to every pound, unless it is pork, and that requires twenty minutes to every pound to cook it. Put fresh meat into boiling water with a little salt, and draw the saucepan off the fire as soon as the joint is in, so that it may only simmer until it is done. Salt meat must be put into warm water and brought to the boil, then allowed to simmer until it is29 done. When the joint is cooked, serve it on a hot dish, with a teacupful of the liquor it was boiled in poured over it. The rest of the liquor may be served for soup, if it is not too salt, and if no vegetables have been boiled with the meat. Boiled Pork. Wash the joint, then put it into a saucepan and cover it with warm water : let it gradually come to a boil, skim and simmer till tender. Allow twenty minutes to the pound. Boiled Pig’s Head. One Pig’s Head. Take out the brains and throw them away and wash the head thoroughly, carefully removing the veins and splinters of bone, then lay the head in pickle (see Pickle for Meat) for three days, after that time put it on to boil with sufficient water to cover it, when boiling let it simmer for two hours. Serve with onion sauce. Brawn. Ingredients. Half a Pig’s Head. Forty Peppercorns. Two blades of Mace. Four Cloves. Twelve Allspice. A bunch of Herbs. Two large Onions. Wash the pig’s head in tepid water, take the brains out and throw them away, and cut out all the veins and splinters of bone. Lay the head in pickle (see Pickle for Meat) for three days ; after that time put it in a saucepan of cold water to boil, when boiling let it simmer gently for one hour and a half. When the pig’s head is sufficiently boiled take it out of the saucepan and cut all the meat off the bones and into the shape of dice. Put the bones back into the saucepan with the liquor in which the head was boiled, the peppercorns, mace, cloves, allspice, and the bunch of herbs. Peel two onions, cut them in quarters, and put them also into the saucepan and let it boil for half an hour ; after that time strain one30 quart of the liquor into a basin, and then pour it back again into the saucepan, add the pieces of meat to it and season with pepper and salt, and let it come to a boil. Rinse a mould or basin with cold water and pour the meat and liquor into it, and stand it aside to cool; when cool turn it out of the basin on to a dish. Brazilian Stew. Ingredients. Four pounds of shin or sticking of Beef. Two Carrots. Two Turnips. Four Onions. A bunch of Herbs. Pepper and Salt. One gill of Vinegar. Cut the meat away from the bone and into neat pieces. Wash the carrots and turnips, cut them up with the onions, and put them into a saucepan with the meat, sprinkling a little salt and pepper over them, then add the bunch of herbs. Cover the contents of the saucepan with vinegar, shut the lid down tightly and let it simmer gently for at least three hours. Serve on a hot dish or soup-tureen. Boiled Rabbit. Wash the rabbit well in warm water, clear out all the blood from the head and neck, truss into a proper shape, and put it into boiling water and let it boil gently for one hour; if a small one, forty minutes. Serve the rabbit with onion sauce or parsley and butter. Cornish Pasties. Ingredients. Half a pound of Buttock Steak or Beef Skirt. Half a pound of Potatoes. One Onion. One pound of Flour. Six ounces of Dripping. Salt and Pepper. One tcaspoonful of Baking Pdwder;3i Cut the meat into small pieces, wash and peel the potatoes and cut them in dice, chop the onion up finely, mix them all together on a plate, with pepper and salt, and two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Put one pound of flour into a basin, rub the dripping into it, add the baking powder and sufficient water to make it into a stiff paste. Flour a board and put the paste on it; roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut the pastry into pieces six or seven inches square, and place a little of the meat and potato and onion in the centre of each; fold the pastry over the meat. Place on a baking sheet, brush over with a beaten-up egg, and bake from half to three-quarters of an hour. This is suffi- cient to make eight pasties. Curried Rabbit. Ingredients. One Rabbit. Quarter of a pound of Fat. Two Onions. One Apple. One tablespoonful of Curry Powder. Half pint of good Stock. One Lemon. Half a teaspoonful of Salt. Put the fat into a stewpan to melt; peel and chop up the onions, and drop them into the melted fat, and fry a light brown. Wash and dry the rabbit, and cut it in pieces of an equal size. When brown, strain the onions, and put the fat back into the stewpan, and put the pieces of rabbit in to fry for ten minutes : then add the curry powder and salt, and stir well over the fire for five minutes. After that time put in the fried onions, the chopped apple, and the stock, and let the whole simmer for two hours, then stir in the lemon juice. When done, arrange the rabbit neatly, and pour the sauce round it. Serve with boiled rice. Giblet Pie. Ingredients. Two sets of Giblets. Half a pound of Steak. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Eight ounces of Fat. Seasoning;a 2 Prepare and thoroughly clean giblets ; put them into a stewpan well covered with cold water ; bring them to the boil. Well skim, then add the salt, and simmer for four hours. Cut the giblets into regular sized pieces, and arrange them in a pie-dish with the meat cut as for a steak-pie. Pour in the stock from the giblets, and well season. Put the flour into a basin with the salt, and rub in the fat; mix into a paste with cold water. Put the paste on a floured board, roll out rather larger than the dish : cut a strip off, and line the edge of the dish, then lay on the paste for the top. Decorate and bake two hours. Haricot Mutton. Ingredients. Two pounds of scrag end of neck of Mutton. Two Onions. Two Carrots. Two Turnips. One ounce of Dripping. One ounce of Flour. Pepper and Salt. Three-quarters of a pint of Water or Stock. Cut the mutton in pieces, and fry it brown on both sides in one ounce of dripping. Take out the pieces of meat and stir in the flour, allowing it to brown in the dripping; stir in three-quarters of a pint of water or stock, and put back the meat. Cut the carrots, onions, and turnips into dice ; add these vegetables to the saucepan, season with pepper and salt to taste; skim well. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire to simmer gently for two hours. For serving, arrange the meat in a circle, the vegetables in the centre, and the gravy over the meat. Irish Stew. No. 1. Ingredients. Two pounds of Potatoes. One pound of scrag end of Mutton. Half pound of Onions. Pepper and Salt. Cut the meat into neat pieces, removing the fat, and put it into a saucepan with about half a pint of water and half a teaspoonful of salt. Let it come to the boil, then skim it very33 thoroughly, and let it cook gently for about an hour. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them in half, skin the onions and cut them in slices; when the meat has cooked for about an hour add these vegetables, with a sprinkle of pepper and salt, and let all cook slowly together for another hour with the lid on. Irish stew can be made with cold meat and cooked or uncooked onions and potatoes. If the vegetables are uncooked they must be cooked before the meat is added, as the meat, being already cooked, must on no account be allowed to boil again, but must only get thoroughly hot through, on the top of the vegetables. Irish Stew. No. 2. Ingredients. Two pounds of Potatoes. One pound of Pork. Half-pound of Onions. Three pints of Water. Pepper and Salt. Cut the pork up into pieces, put it on in three pints of water with the onions cut in slices, salt and pepper. When this has cooked for half an hour, add the potatoes peeled and cut in two; cook all together for about an hour and a half. Any scraps of meat may be added, and all sorts of vegetables, cut up fine if liked. Liver and Bacon. Ingredients. Two pounds of Calf’s or Sheep's Liver. One pound of Bacon. Five dessertspoonfuls of Flour. Pepper and Salt. One small Onion. Cut the bacon in thin slices, take off the rind and place the slices in a frying-pan. Wash the liver and dry it: cut it in slices of about one-third of an inch in thickness. Put the flour with some pepper and salt on to a plate, dip each piece of liver into it. Let the frying-pan get hot; fry the bacon first, turning it once, put it on a hot dish, and put the pieces of liver in the pan, a few D34 at a time, as they must not be on the top of each other. Fry the liver for a quarter of an hour, cut a slice to see if it be suffi- ciently cooked ; if it is not done the inside will look red. When the liver is all cooked, put it on the same dish with the bacon; stir the flour into the frying-pan ; when the flour is brown, add the stock, stir till it boils and thickens; pour this sauce over the liver in the centre of the dish. If a fried onion is liked, it should be cooked after the liver is done and before the gravy is boiled. Serve it on the top of the liver. Pickle for Meat. Ingredients. One pound of Salt. Six ounces of brown Sugar. One ounce of Saltpetre. One gallon of Water. Put all these ingredients into a large saucepan and let it boil for five minutes, skimming it all the while, then strain it into a large basin, and when it is cold the meat can be put in it and should be kept in it five days. Pork Pie. Ingredients. One gill of Milk. Quarter of a pound of Lard. One pound of Pork. Seasoning. One pound of Flour. One Egg. Put the lard and a gill of milk into a saucepan, and let it boil. Cut the pork into small square pieces. Put the flour into a basin, and when the lard and water are quite boiling pour them into the middle of the flour and mix well together with a spoon, and when it is cool knead it with the hands, and then turn it out on a floured board; cut off a quarter of the paste and shape the rest into shape of a basin, and cut it even round the top. Dip the pieces of pork into cold water, and season them well with pepper and salt. Put them into the mould of35 paste, then put the other piece of paste over the top of it, pressing the two edges together. Break the egg into two cups, dividing the yolk from the white, put a little of the white on the edge of the mould. Cut the leaves out of the remaining paste, dip them in the white of egg and stick them on top of the pie, then wet the pie all over with the yolk of egg and put it in the oven to bake for two hours. Reduce some good veal or pork stock and pour into the pie before it is cold. Rabbit Pie. Ingredients. One Rabbit. Half a pound of Bacon or Salt Pork. Half a pound of Beefsteak. Salt and Pepper. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Half a pound of clarified Dripping. Make the paste as for meat pie (see page 41). Wash the rabbit well in cold water, wipe it dry, and cut it up into neat pieces of an equal size. Cut the pork and beefsteak into slices. Arrange the rabbit, bacon, and beef in a pie-dish, and sprinkle over them the chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little cold water or stock. Cover with the paste, and bake in a hot oven for two hours till it is a pale brown. Ragout of Mutton. Ingredients. Two pounds of scrag of Mutton. Two ounces of clarified Fat. Two tablespoonfuls of Flour. One saltspoonful of Pepper. Half a teaspoonful of Sugar. One teaspoonful of Salt. Bouquet of Herbs. One Onion. Take the mutton and cut it into pieces about two inches square ; put the fat into a saucepan, and when melted add the flour; stir with a wooden spoon till it forms a brownish roux, then add the meat and stir for twenty minutes; add a pint of water, the d i,36 salt, pepper, sugar, and herbs. Stir it till it boils, and let it simmer for an hour. Having previously peeled the turnip and onion, and scraped the carrots, cut them up into small pieces of an inch square, put some fat in the frying-pan, and fry till brown, then add them to the meat. When ready to serve take out the meat and vegetables, squeeze the bouquet, which throw away, skim off the fat, and add a little broth or water. Dish it up by placing the pieces of meat in a circle, and the vegetables in the centre ; pour the sauce over, and serve very hot (if not it is spoiled). A few fresh vegetables, cut in small pieces, can be boiled separately in water and served on the top of the Ragout if liked. Ragout of Rabbit. Ingredients. One Rabbit. Half a pound of Bacon. One Carrot. One Onion. One ounce of Flour. Wash and clean the rabbit, cut it up into joints, and dry the pieces in a cloth. Cut the bacon in slices, and fry it in a stewpan ; when the bacon is done fry the rabbit brown. Take the rabbit up on to a plate, and stir the flour into the fat, when it is brown put in one pint of water, with the carrot and onion cut in quarters ; pepper and salt to taste. Boil gently an hour and a half. Serve the rabbit with the bacon round, and the gravy poured over it. Pork or Bacon Pasties. Ingredients. One pound Flour. Two ounces of Fat. One Onion. Pepper, Salt. Half-pound of pieces of Pork or Bacon. Half-pound Potatoes, cut up small. Rub the fat and flour together and mix it up with sufficient water to make a paste, roll it out about as thick as for Cornish pasties, cut it out with a saucepan lid. Sprinkle salt and pepper37 ori the pieces of pork, lay two or three pieces on each round of paste, also some of the chopped up potatoes and onions. Close up the pasties and bake them for about three-quarters of an hour. If preferred, you can put all the pork and vegetables into the paste, tie it up in a floured cloth and boil for one or one and a half hours. This would be a pork roly-poly. Roast Joint. To roast a joint, have a well-made-up clear fire. Weigh your joint, and allow a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat, and one quarter of an hour over; white meats, such as veal or pork, take a little longer. Put the meat close to the fire for the first five minutes, to close up the pores and keep the gravy in, then draw it further away. Baste it often, and see that it does not burn. For the last quarter of an hour put the joint closer again to the fire, to brown the outside. When the meat is cooked, take it up on a hot dish, pour all the dripping from the pan into a basin for future use when cold. Pour about one gill of stock or hot water into the dripping-pan, scraping the brown particles off which adhere to the pan and which colour the gravy, pouring this round the joint, not over it, as that would sodden the meat. When the joint is cut, the juices will run out, and added to the stock already in the dish will make a good gravy. Roasting in a Stew Pan. Ingredients. A CalPs Heart. Two ounces of Dripping. Two tablespoonfuls of Bread-crumbs. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Suet. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of Lemon, Thyme, and Marjoram. Pepper and Salt. * One Egg, or a little Milk. Clean the heart well, soaking it in warm water to draw out the blood; while it is soaking make the stuffing. Mix well together the bread-crumbs, chopped suet, parsley, lemon, thyme, marjoram;33 sprinkle a little pepper and salt, and bind these ingredients all together, with one egg or a little milk. Take the heart, dry it with a clean cloth, cut off the deaf ears, and stuff it with the stuffing just made; sew it up, and put it in a stewpan with two ounces of dripping, over a very slow fire ; baste it frequently, and turn it over occasionally. A bullock’s heart takes two hours and a calf’s heart one hour to cook. Serve with brown sauce. Roast Rabbit, Stuffed. Ingredients. One Rabbit. Quarter of a pound of Bread-crumbs. Two ounces of Suet. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of chopped Herbs. A little grated Lemon-rind and Nutmeg. Salt and Pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of Milk. Wash the rabbit well in cold water and wipe it well inside. Chop the suet, herbs, and parsley, taking away all the stalks, then mix the suet, herbs, bread-crumbs, salt, pepper and the milk well together, and grate a little nutmeg over it. Fill the inside of the rabbit with this stuffing and sew it up with string. Grease a piece of paper and wrap it round the rabbit to prevent its burning, and put it in a tin with a little dripping; put the tin in the oven to bake for one hour, basting it frequently. When nearly dene remove the greased paper and sprinkle a little salt over the rabbit. When done serve with brown sauce. Sausages. Ingredients. One pound of Sausages. One ounce of Dripping. One ounce of Bread. Melt the dripping in a frying-pan. Prick the sausages to prevent them bursting. Put them into the pan and fry brown all round ; they will take seven minutes. Serve on a square of fried bread, or on mashed potatoes.39 Sausage Rolls. Ingredients. Half a pound of Sausages. One pound of Flour. Half a pound of Dripping. One teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Seasoning. One Egg. Cut the sausages in half and skin them. Put the flour into a basin, add to it the baking powder, salt and dripping, rubbing them all well together so as to leave no lumps, add a little water and make it into a stiff paste, then turn it out on to a floured board, and cut the paste in two, rolling each portion out till it is about the eighth of an inch thick, place half a sausage to the paste, fold the paste over, press the ends together, and flake the cut edges with the blade of a knife. Grease a baking tin and place the sausage rolls on it, Break the egg on to a plate and beat it slightly with a knife and brush over the top of each roll. Place the tin in the oven to bake for half an hour; when done take the rolls off the tin and put them on a dish. Scotch Collops. Ingredients. Half a pound of Steak. One ounce of Butter. One Onion, minced finely. Half a saltspoonful of Salt and Pepper. Gill of Stock or Water. Mince the steak, then dissolve the butter, and fry the meat light brown, sprinkle over with a little flour ; then add the stock or water, the minced onion, seasoning, and simmer for one hour. Serve with sippets of toast. Sea Pie. Ingredients. Two pounds of Buttock Steak. One small Onion, one small Carrot. Pepper, Salt. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Quarter pound of Suet. One teaspoonful of Baking Powder,40 Cut the meat into thin slices, peel the onion, cut the carrot into small pieces, season the pieces of meat with pepper and salt and put them into a large saucepan in layers, sprinkling the chopped vegetables on each layer, and pour in enough cold water to cover the meat; let it come to a boil, and then let it simmer one and a half hours. While it is doing so make the crust. Chop the suet very finely, put the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin and mix well together, then rub in the suet, and add enough water to make it into a smooth, very stiff paste, then turn it out on to a floured board and roll it out to the size of the saucepan. Put this paste over the meat in the saucepan and let it simmer gently for one hour and a half. Do not let the paste be quite the size of the saucepan, as it will swell while cooking, and keep the lid on. When done turn out the meat and vegetables and place the crust, previously removed, over them. Sheep’s Head Boiled. Ingredients. One Sheep’s Head. Salt. One ounce of Rice. Ten Peppercorns. Two Turnips. One Carrot. One Onion. Half a small head of Celery. One sprig of Thyme. Two sprigs of Parsley. Toasted Crusts of Bread. One ounce of Flour. One ounce of clarified Dripping. Cut the head in half, take out the brains, wash them and put them into cold water, with a little salt. Wash the head and tongue thoroughly. Cut away all the small bones in the nostril, clean out the eyes, and cut off the hair, then allow the head and tongue to soak in salt and water for an hour. Put the head and tongue into a saucepan, cover with cold water, gradually bring it to the boil, and take off very carefully every particle of scum. Allow the head to simmer one hour and a half, then add the vegetables cut in large pieces, the herbs, rice and seasoning. Half an hour41 before the head is done, tie the brains in muslin and put them in to boil for ten minutes. Make sauce of the flour and dripping, adding about half a pint of the liquor to them, and move it to the side of the fire. Take out the brains and chop them up, and add them to the sauce. Take out the turnips and mash them. Place the head on a dish, garnish with the tongue, pour thelsauce over, and put the mashed turnip and other vegetables over it; serve with sippets of toast. Sheep’s Trotters. Ingredients. A gang of Trotters (four). A tablespoonful of Vinegar. One Carrot. One Onion. One ounce of Flour. Wash the trotters well in cold water, and blanch them. Put them in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion cut up, a tablespoonful of salt, one of vinegar, and two quarts of cold water. Mix one ounce of flour and one tablespoonful of water to a smooth paste ; stir this to the trotters, and let them simmer for four hours. Then take them up carefully, arrange them on a hot dish, and pour either parsley and butter sauce or piquante sauce over them. Meat Pie. Ingredients. One pound and a half of Buttock Steak. Half pound of Bullock’s Kidney. Seasoning (Flour, Salt and Pepper). Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Six ounces of clarified Dripping. Cut the steak into thin pieces and roll them up with a piece of kidney inside each; put one tablespoonful flour, one teaspoon- ful salt, and half of pepper on to a plate, mix them together and dip each piece of meat into it. Arrange these rolls of meat and kidney in a pie-dish, and fill up the dish two-thirds with water. Put the flour into a large basin with half a saltspoonful of salt, rub into it the clarified dripping, or, if the dripping is hard, shred it in with a sharp knife, then add, by degrees, sufficient cold water to make it into a stiff paste. Flour a board, and roll the pastry4 2 out rather larger than the pie-dish, about one-third of an inch thick; cut a strip off and wet the edge of the dish; place the strip round the dish, wet the edge again and press the remaining piece of pastry over the pie ; trim off the rough edges with a sharp knife. Make a hole in the pie to allow the steam to escape whilst baking; ornament the top of the pie with any device you like. Bake it tor two hours, putting it into the hottest part of the oven first to make the crust light, and then putting it in a cooler part to cook the meat thoroughly. If you like a better crust, use the following :— Rough Puff. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Flour. Six ounces of Butter. Salt. Half a tablespoonful of Lemon-juice. Put the butter and flour on a paste-board, chop up the butter in the flour, heap it all up on the board, make a well in the centre, put in the lemon-juice, and sprinkle the salt over. Take a full tablespoonful of cold water, and mix it slowly and lightly with your fingers into the flour and butter, adding more water if necessary, until you get a stiff paste. Roll this out, fold it over in half, turn it with the rough edges towards you, roll it and fold it again; repeat this twice more, so that it is rolled out and folded four times in all. It is now ready for use for a meat pie, apple tart, or tartlets. Poor Man’s Goose. Ingredients. Pig’s Fry or Ox Liver. Pieces of Bacon or Pork. Two Onions, Pepper, Salt, and Sage. One pound Potatoes. A cup of Water. Place the meat, seasoned with pepper, salt, and sage in a pie dish in alternate layers with the onions and potatoes sliced, taking care that the top layer is of potato, add a cup of water and bake.43 Rabbit and Pork Pudding. Ingredients. One pound Flour. Two ounces of Fat or Suet. One Rabbit. Some pieces of Pork or Bacon. Pepper and Salt. Rub the flour and fat together, add enough water to make a paste, roll it out; grease a basin, lay in the joints of rabbit and pieces of pork, season with pepper and salt; cover the basin over with the paste, tie a floured cloth over it and boil for two hours. Stewed Calf’s Liver. Ingredients. A small Liver of three pounds. One pint Stock. Two ounces Butter. One ounce Flour. One Onion, Parsley, Thyme and Bay-leaf. Two Carrots. A little Celery. Pepper and Salt. A little fat Bacon. Fry the butter, flour and onion; when a nice light brown, stir in the stock, add the liver, also the carrots, onion, celery, and bacon all sliced up, the parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf tied together, sprinkle in a little pepper and salt. Cover the liver over with a piece of buttered paper, put on the lid and let it simmer very gently for two hours, basting it from time to time with the stock it is cooking in. Dish up on a hot dish, strain the stock over it, and serve some nice rashers of bacon rolled up round it. Stewed Ox Cheek. No. 1. Ingredients. Two pounds Ox Cheek. Three quarts of Water. One pound of mixed Vegetables (Carrots, Turnips, Onions, and Celery, chopped up). Dumplings made from the paste left from the Rabbit Pudding.44 Well wash and cut up the ox cheek, put it on in three quarts of water, add some salt, skim it well and cook steadily for one hour; then add all the chopped vegetables and cook steadily for two hours more; add the dumplings, one for each person, and boil for twenty minutes. Stewed Ox Cheek. No. 2. Ingredients. Six pounds of Ox-cheek. Two Carrots, one Turnip. Half head of Celery. Four Onions. Bouquet of Herbs. Twelve Cloves, one blade of Mace. Twenty Peppercorns. Salt. One ounce of Fat. One ounce of Flour. One ounce of Butter. Wash the ox-cheek well in warm water, and cut the flesh carefully off the bone, and roll it up and tie a piece of string round it; then put it into a stewpan with some clarified dripping, and put it on the fire to brown. Wash and scrape the carrots and peel the turnip, and cut them all in half; peel the onions, and stick the cloves into them ; wash the celery, and cut off the green tops. Put the rolled cheek, the bones and all these vegetables into a saucepan, and add to them the herbs tied together; pour in sufficient cold water to cover it, about six quarts, and bring it to a boil; then move it to the side of the fire to simmer gently for four hours. When the cheek is nearly done, put the butter into a small saucepan on the fire to melt, stir in the flour; then take a pint of the ox-cheek stock, pour it into the small sauce- pan, and stir until it boils and thickens. When the ox-cheek is done, place it on the centre of a hot dish and pour the sauce over it. Toad-in-the-Hole. No. 1. Ingredients. One pound of Butcher’s Pieces. One and a half pound of Flour. One and a half ounce of chopped Suet. One pint Skim Milk. One teaspoonful of Baking Powder. A little Salt.45 Wash the pieces of meat and cut them up, put them in a deep dish ; make a smooth batter of the flour, chopped suet, and milk, add the salt and baking powder, pour the batter over the meat, and bake for one hour. Toad-in-the-hole. No. 2. Ingredients. Half pound of Flour. Two Eggs. One and a half pound of Meat. Seasoning. One pint of Milk. Put the flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre and break in the eggs, having first ascertained that they are good ; stir in smoothly half the milk, beat it well, and add the rest of the milk. Cut the meat in neat pieces, season it with salt and pepper, and place it in a greased pie-dish, or Yorkshire-pudding tin. Pour the batter over it, and put into the oven for one hour. Steak and Kidney Pudding. Ingredients. Six ounces of Suet. One pound of Flour One teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Seasoning. One pound and a half of Buttock Steak. Half a pound of Bullock’s Kidney. Put the flour, baking powder, salt, and the suet chopped finely into a basin; rub them well together, add enough cold water to make it a paste. Cut the steak into slices, also the kidney, and season with pepper and salt. Roll the paste out and line a basin with it, reserving a piece for the top. Place the meat and kidney in the basin, and cover with the remainder of the paste, having put in a little water; join the paste together at the edges, and trim neatly. Wring the pudding-cloth out in boiling water, and tie over the top of the basin with the four corners over the top. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for two hours. Turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish.46 Stewed Breast of Veal. Ingredients. Breast of Veal. Two Onions. Two Carrots. Two Turnips. Twenty Peppercorns. One ounce of Salt. Put the veal into a saucepan, and well cover it with cold water ; bring to the boil, and skim, then add the seasoning and the vegetables prepared. Stew the veal very gently for two hours and a half, and serve with piquante or parsley and butter sauce poured oyer it. Stewed Brisket of Beef Ingredients. Seven pounds of Brisket of Beef. Two Carrots, one Turnip, two Onions. One head of Celery, one Leek. Bouquet of Herbs. Six Cloves, twelve Peppercorns, six Allspices. One tablespoonful of Salt. Scrape the beef quite clean and put it into a large saucepan. Prepare the vegetables and add them to the meat, also the herbs, cloves, peppercorns, salt and three quarts of water. Let it come to a boil and then let it simmer for three hours. After that time take the meat out of the saucepan, remove the flat bones, and place it between two dishes with a heavy weight to press it down. Strain the stock and boil it till it is a glaze (one gill of stock). Pour this over the beef and let it cool. Stewed Calf’s Feet. Ingredients. Two Calf’s feet. Two slices of Bacon. One Onion. Two ounces of Butter. Four Cloves. One blade of Mace. A small bunch of Parsley, Thyme, and a Bay-leaf. Salt and Pepper to taste.47 For the Sauce. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Flour. Salt. One gill of Milk. Half a pint of the liquor the feet have boiled in. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Bone the feet as far as the first joint, and soak them in warm water for two hours. Put the butter, bacon, onion sliced, cloves, mace, and herbs into a stewpan, lay the feet in, and just cover them with cold water; add pepper and salt to taste, and stew slowly for three hours. Take out the feet with a slice, and serve with sauce made as follows poured over them : Mix one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour together in a stewpan, add, stirring slowly all the time, half a pint of the liquor the feet were cooked in. Let this boil for five minutes, then add the gill of milk, a pinch of salt, and last of all the chopped parsley. Put the rest of the liquor away, previously strained; it will do for gravies, or to add to other stock. Stewed Ox-tail. Ingredients. One Ox-tail. One Onion. Three Cloves. One blade of Mace. Quarter of a teaspoonful of whole Pepper. Half a teaspoonful of Salt. Bouquet Garni. Tablespoonful of Lemon-juice. Two ounces of Fat. One ounce of Flour. Divide the tail at the joints and fry them brown in a saucepan, with the fat and the onions ; take out the pieces of tail, stir in the flour, and allow it to brown. Put back the pieces of tail, and well cover them' with stock or water; add vegetables and seasoning. Simmer for three hours, then add lemon-juice. Arrange the pieces of tail in a hot dish, strain sauce over them, and garnish with sippets of toast. Stewed Knuckle of Veal. Ingredients. Four pounds of Knuckle of Veal. Quarter of a pound of Rice. One Onion. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Salt. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Pepper. One tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley.48 Wash the veal, and put it on to simmer for two hours in four pints of cold water, with the salt. Peel and cut up the onion, wash the rice, and when the veal has simmered for one hour then add these to it, and let it simmer for the other hour, and then add the chopped parsley. For serving, place the rice and gravy on a dish with the meat in the middle. Tripe a la Bourgeoise. Ingredients. One pound of thin Tripe. Half a pound of Bacon. One small Carrot. Salt and Pepper. Four Mushrooms. Juice of half a Lemon. One small Onion. Bouquet Garni ; Parsley. Two Shalots. Two ounces of Butter. One tablespoonful of Harvey Sauce. One tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. One ounce of Flour. One pint of Stock. Wash the tripe in cold water, and then blanch it. Take it out of the stewpan, dry it with a clean cloth, and cut it into strips two inches wide and four inches long. Cut the bacon into very thin slices the same size as the strips of tripe. Chop up one shalot and the parsley, lay the strips of bacon on the strips of tripe, sprinkle a little chopped parsley and shalot on each, roll them up together, and tie round with string. Cut up the other shalot, the onion and carrot, put them with the bouquet garni (thyme, marjoram and bay-leaf) and the mushrooms into a stewpan with the rolls of tripe, pour in one pint of stock, and let it simmer gently for quite two hours. Then take out the rolls of tripe, and put them on a plate. Mix the two ounces of butter and one ounce of flour together in a stewpan, strain the stock into it; stir till it boils and thickens, add the lemon juice, Harvey sauce, and mushroom ketchup, also the rolls of tripe to get hot through. To serve arrange the rolls of tripe in a circle round mashed potato, spinach, or some other vegetable, and pour the sauce over and round.49 Tripe and Onions. Ingredients. One pound of Tripe. Three or four large Onions. One pint of Milk. One dessertspoonful of Flour. Pepper and Salt. Blanch the tripe—that is, put it on in cold water and let it come to the boil; throw the water away. Cut it into neat oblong pieces. Peel the onions, and slice them Put the tripe and onions into a saucepan with one pint of milk. Let it simmer for not less than two hours. Take a dessertspoonful of flour, mix it to a paste with a little cold milk; stir by degrees the paste into the hot milk, let it boil up and thicken, season to taste, and serve very hot. Tripe and Rice. Ingredients. Two pounds of Tripe. Two Onions. Two ounces of Fat or Butter. One quart of Milk or Broth. One and a half ounce of Rice. Pepper and Salt to taste. Cut the tripe up into convenient pieces of about two inches long and one inch broad, and blanch it, that is, put it on in cold water and just boil up, then strain away the water. Cut up the onions, and fry them in a stewpan in two ounces of fat or butter till they are soft; then put the pieces of tripe into the stewpan, and add one quart of milk or broth, one and a half ounce of washed rice, a little pepper and salt, and let it all simmer together for one hour; it must not boil, or it will curdle. Tripe and Tomatoes. Ingredients. Two pounds of Tripe. Two Onions and a bunch of Herbs. One pound of Tomatoes. Two ounces of Fat or Butter. One ounce of Flour. E50 Cut up the tripe and blanch it; cut up the onions, and fry them with the herbs in two ounces of fat or butter, and stir in the ounce of flour. Rub one pound of tomatoes through a sieve, put this into the stewpan with the fried onions, add the tripe and a little salt, then let it all simmer gently for one hour, and serve. Veal Cake. Ingredients. One pound of Veal Cutlet. Three eggs. Half a pound of fat Bacon. Parsley, Pepper, and Salt. A little grated Lemon-rind. One gill of Stock. Boil the eggs hard, and cut them in slices. Chop up the parsley and mix with the grated lemon-rind, the pepper and salt. Line a plain round mould with the slices of egg on the bottom. Cut up the veal into neat pieces, and put it in the mould in alter- nate layers with the bacon cut up and the slices of egg, sprinkling each layer with the seasoning. When the mould is full, pour in the stock; should the stock not be consistent enough, add two sheets of French gelatine; make the stock from the bones and scraps of veal, flavour with soup vegetables ; cover over tightly with buttered paper, put a weight on the top, and bake in a slow oven for three or four hours. When quite cold, turn out and serve. Boiled Cowheel. Ingredients. One Cowheel. Water or Milk to cover it. Two tablespoonfuls of Flour. Chopped Onions. Pepper and Salt, and chopped Parsley. Cut up the Cowheel and wash it well, put it into a saucepan with enough milk or water to cover it, add the chopped onions, pepper and salt, let it boil for one hour. Mix two table- spoonfuls of flour with a little cold water and stir to the Cowheel to thicken the broth; let this cook for ten minutes; just before serving stir in some chopped parsley.COLD MEAT Curry. Ingredients. Scraps of cold Meat. Two ounces of clarified Dripping. One Apple. One Onion. One teaspoonful of Curry-powder. One teaspoonful of Curry-paste. One dessertspoonful of Flour. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Six ounces Boiled Rice. Salt and Pepper. Cut up the onion and the apple finely. Cut the meat into neat slices. Put the dripping into a small saucepan, and when it is hot add the onion; fry the onion brown, strain it, and return the dripping to the saucepan; add the curry-powder, paste, flour, chopped apple, and salt, and stir to it gradually half a pint of cold water. Let it boil, and then simmer for half an hour with the lid off. Add the meat, let it get hot through, add lemon-juice, but do not let it boil again. Serve with boiled rice. Dresden Patties. Ingredients. Slices of Bread two inches thick. One ounce of Flour. One and a half ounce of Butter. Half a pint of Stock. Half a pound of Veal. Half a pound of Ham. One Egg. Lemon Juice. A little Milk, and some Bread-crumbs. The patty cases are to be made of bread, so cut some slices of bread two inches thick; stamp them out with a round cutter, take out the inside not quite through, leaving a bottom to each case, and cut a little lid to each case. Dip these in milk, letthem dry a little—egg and bread-crumb cases and lids, and fry a light brown in boiling fat. Make a sauce of the flour, butter, and stock, season with six drops of lemon-juice, pepper and salt. Chop the veal and ham; stir them into this sauce over the fire till quite hot; fill each patty-case with this mixture and place a lid on the top of each. Serve on a fish paper, garnished with fried parsley. Sufficient for twelve patties. Gateau of Cold Meat. Ingredients. Half a pound of Meat. Two ounces of Crumbs of Bread. One Shalot. Half an ounce of Fat. Half a gill of Gravy. One teaspoonful of Parsley. Two Yolks and one White of Egg. Grease a cake-tin, and well cover it with brown bread-crumbs. Mince the shalot and the parsley, fry the shalot in the fat, then mince the meat. Put all the ingredients into a basin, and mix with the gravy and the eggs beaten ; put into the cake-tin. Bake in a steady oven for three-quarters of an hour. Hash or Mince. Ingredients. One pound of scraps of cold Meat and Bone. Two small Onions. One Carrot. Half a Turnip. One bunch of Herbs (consisting of a Bay-leaf a sprig of Marjoram, Thyme, and Parsley). A tablespoonful of Flour. Sippets of Bread. Salt and Pepper. Two ounces of Dripping. Cut the cold meat off the bone in thin slices, if for a hash; chop finely, if for mince. Chop the bone in pieces and put them into a saucepan, with one onion peeled and cut in slices ; one carrot washed, scraped, and cut in quarters; half a turnip washed, peeled and cut in half; also a sprig of parsley washed and dried in53 a cloth and tied up with one baydeaf, one sprig of marjoram and one of thyme, and one pint of cold water, pepper and salt to taste ; let this come to the boil, then put on the lid, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it stew gently for one hour; skim it occasionally. Cut up the other onion and fry it a nice brown in an ounce of dripping; stir in a teaspoonful of flour with it. Strain the gravy from the bones on to the fried onion ; * put the saucepan on the fire, and stir till it boils and the flour is cooked ; lay in the slices of meat, but do not let it boil after the meat is in. Cut a slice of bread into small three-cornered pieces, and fry them a light brown in an ounce of dripping. To serve, put the slices of meat on a hot dish, strain the gravy over them, and put the fried sippets of bread round the edge of the dish. Patties of Cold Meat. Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Four ounces of Dripping. One teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Pepper and Salt. Parsley, Marjoram, and Thyme. About one pound of Cold Meat. Mix the flour, dripping, and baking-powder, with a little cold water, into a stiff paste; roll it out a quarter of an inch thick. Grease twelve patty-pans, and line them with the paste. Cut up the cold meat, season with pepper and salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful chopped parsley, marjoram, and thyme. Fill the patty-pans, cover with the paste, trim the edges neatly, and bake half an hour. Rice Cutlets. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Rice. Flalf a pound of Cold Meat. One Onion. Salt and Cayenne. Quarter of a pound of Suet. Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. *■ Season your gravies with vegetables ; fry the onions to brown the gravy and use no sauces.54 Boil the rice and strain it. Boil the onion and chop it up; chop the meat and the suet very small, and mix with the rice, bread-crumbs and onion ; sprinkle a little salt and cayenne pepper over it. Mix well together with a little warm stock, cook a little to make a paste. Let the mixture set in a plate; cut into the shape of mutton cutlets, egg and bread-crumb, and fry a golden brown. Serve with fried parsley in the centre. Sufficient for sixteen cutlets. Croquets of Cold Meat. Ingredients. One pound of cold Meat. One gill of Stock. Half an ounce of Flour. One ounce of Dripping. One small Onion. Parsley. Nutmeg. Pepper and Salt. Chop the meat fine without much fat; chop the onion fine and fry, without burning, in the dripping, add the flour and the stock; chop the parsley fine; boil the sauce well, and add the chopped meat and parsley, a grate of nutmeg, pepper and salt. Turn out on a plate to cool. When cold make into balls, egg, and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat. Shepherd’s Pie. Ingredients. One pound of cold Meat. Pepper and Salt. One and a half pound of Potatoes. One ounce of Dripping. One tablcspoonful of Milk, Scrub, peel, and boil the potatoes; any remains of cold potatoes may be used instead of boiling fresh ones. Rub them through a sieve. Melt the dripping with the milk, add the potatoes to it. Cut the meat in slices, put them in a pie-dish, with pepper and salt. But a little well-seasoned gravy in the dish. Cover the pie-dish with the mashed potato, smooth it neatly with a knife dipped in hot water. Mark it over with a fork. Bake the pie for three-quarters of an hour,55 Beef Fritters. Ingredients. Half pound of cold Beef, Three ounces of Flour. Half gill of Milk. Two ounces of Butter. One Egg, Pepper and Salt. Frying fat. Parsley. Prepare a nice light batter as follows : Sift the flour into a basin, stir in the milk, the yolk of egg and the butter (previously warmed). Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, add a pinch of salt and mix with the batter, which must be well worked before the beaten white is added. Chop the beef very fine, season it a little with pepper and salt and mix with the batter. Have the fat for frying very hot, drop in the mixture in small quantities with a tablespoon and fry a nice light brown. Drain the fritters on a cloth, dish them up in a pile, fry some parsley which has been picked, washed and drained, garnish round the dish and serve quickly, as the fritters become heavy if left standing. Cornish Cutlets. Ingredients. Twelve ounces of cold Meat. One pound of Potatoes. Two Eggs. One tablespoonful of Ketchup or Worcester Sauce. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Bread-crumbs. A little chopped Lemon-rind. Fat for frying ; Salt and Pepper. Cut the meat in rather thick slices, trim them into heart shapes, put them on a dish and sprinkle with salt, pepper and parsley, pour over the ketchup or sauce. Wash, peel and boil the potatoes, dry them and rub through a sieve, beat up one egg and mix with the mash, season with pepper, salt, and add the lemon juice or a little grated nutmeg. Cover well each slice of meat with mashed potatoes, shape and smooth with a knife. Beat up the other egg, dip each cutlet in the egg, and crumb well; when set, egg and crumb again. Have the fat ready, fry the cutlets a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish up and garnish with crisp parsley.56 Curry Croquets. Ingredients. Four onces of Rice. Half pound of cold Meat. One teaspoonful of Curry Powder. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Two Eggs, Bread-crumbs, frying Fat. Half ounce of Flour. One gill of Stock. One ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of chopped Onion. The remains of any kind of cold meat will do for this dish. Free the meat from skin and gristle, and if very fat, part off the fat; chop the meat up very fine. Wash, blanch and boil the rice, drain, and dry it in front of the fire. Put the butter and onion into the saucepan, fry it but do not let it get brown, then stir in the curry-powder and flour. When this is cooked hit not browJied, add the meat and lemon-juice ; let this cook a little longer over the fire. Mix in the boiled rice. Beat up one egg and add it to the mixture, stir just long enough to bind the egg, add a pinch of salt if required, and spread the mixture on a dish. When cold, shape into balls of even size. Beat up the other egg for the purpose of egging the balls, then dip them in bread- crumbs and fry in hot fat to a nice light brown colour. Drain on to a paper or cloth, dish up in a pile, garnish with fried parsley and serve. Rissoles of Cold Meat. Ingredients. Half a pound of cold Meat. Half a gill of Stock. A dessertspoonful of Flour. A small piece of Onion. Parsley. Nutmeg. Pepper and Salt. Half a pound of Flour. Four ounces of Butter or Dripping. One Egg, Bread-crumbs, Fat for frying.57 Remove skin, gristle and part of the fat (if very fat) from the meat, chop it very fine; chop up the piece of onion, fry it lightly in a little butter or dripping, add the meat. Stir a few seconds over the fire, add then a little flour and last of all the stock, season with pepper, salt and a little grated nutmeg, and chopped parsley. Spread on a plate to cool. Put the flour in a basin, add a pinch of salt, shred the dripping finely, or if you use butter divide into little bits and rub in the flour with the tips of your fingers, when well mixed and perfectly smooth, add a little water, and make it into a stiffish paste, then roll out on a floured board, stamp out some rounds about three and a half inches in diameter, put some of the prepared meat mixture in the centre of each, brush the edges with beaten egg, or water, fold over to form a half circle, press the ends together so as to well close the edges. Beat up the egg, dipBthe rissoles in it, crumb well and fry in hot fat. Savoury Meat Rolls. Ingredients. Half pound of the remains of any kind of cold Meat. One pound of mashed Potatoes. Two whole Eggs. About an ounce and a half of Flour. A handful of crushed Vermicelli. Pepper and Salt. A dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley. A tablespoonful of melted Butter Sauce. Mince up the meat very fine, removing skin and gristle (any kind of meat will do, if you have any scraps of ham or tongue add it in a proportionate quantity with the other meat). Season the mince with pepper, salt and a little grated nutmeg if liked, mix with the sauce and add the chopped parsley. Have ready the mashed potatoes, work in the flour, beat up the eggs and add the same, retaining sufficient to brush over the rolls, season to taste, and stir over the fire in a stew-pan to form a stiff paste. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness, cut it in oblong pieces, about four inches long and two inches across, put a dessert- spoonful of meat upon each piece, wet the edges, turn over to give it the shape of rolls, press down the ends firmly and trim. Brush the tips with beaten egg, sprinkle with crushed vermicelli, place on a greased baking sheet and bake in a hot oven until of a light brown colour, dish up and serve hot.5» Savoury Meat Toast. Ingredients. Half a pound of cold Meat. Four ounces of Bread-crumbs. A teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Half a teaspoonful of chopped Lemon-rind. Half a gill of white or brown Sauce. Two Eggs. Salt and Pepper, and Toasted Bread. Mince the meat very fine (any kind of meat will do, scraps of ham or tongue mixed will improve the flavour), mix it with the bread crumbs, parsley, lemon-rind and moisten with the sauce, add the yolk of the eggs, season with pepper and salt and stir over the fire until set. Have ready one or two slices of toasted bread, well trimmed of crust, put the mince on it in a heap, smooth over with a knife, beat up the white of one egg to a stiff froth, cover the top over with this, sprinkle with a few fried bread-crumbs, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about ten minutes. Serve very hot. VEGETABLES. Boiled Potatoes. As a general rule, it is more economical to boil potatoes in their skins. They must be boiled gently, the water strained off directly they are tender, and finish cooking in their own steam. If they break in the water there is great waste. The skins must be carefully scrubbed quite clean before they are boiled. When potatoes are very old they acquire an unpleasant taste when boiled in their skins. Potatoes must never boil hard, they must be put into cold water with plenty of salt in it. New potatoes are put into boiling water; they take longer to boil than old potatoes. Potatoes take longer to steam than to boil. They take an hour to bake,59 To Boil Rice. Ingredients. Half a pound of Patna. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Salt. Four quarts of boiling Water. Well wash the rice in cold water. Put it into four quarts of boiling water, with a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, and let it boil fast for fifteen to twenty minutes. When it is quite tender, strain it into a colander, and take it to the sink. Turn the cold- water tap on to it for two or three seconds. Turn it into a clean dry stewpan by the side of the fire, with the lid half on, to dry and get hot. Shake it occasionally, to prevent it from burning. When dry, it is quite ready to serve. Cabbages, Greens, and Savoys. Greens, Savoys and Cabbages must be cooked in plenty of boiling water, with a tablespoonful of salt to every half-gallon. Boil them with the lid off; if the water is very hard, add sufficient carbonate of soda to cover a threepenny piece. Time required to cook them depends upon their age. The stalk should be split and the hard part removed. Haricot Beans. Ingredients. One pint of Beans. One ounce of Fat or Butter. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Soak the beans over-night. Put them in a saucepan with three pints of cold water. When it boils let them simmer gently for two hours, then strain. Melt the fat in the saucepan, return the beans to the saucepan, and shake them in the fat; sprinkle in a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve.Pickle for Vegetables. Ingredients. A gallon of Vinegar. Mace, Cloves, Allspice, whole Pepper. Salt and Ginger. Soak the vegetable in salt and water. Boil the vinegar, mace, cloves, allspice, pepper, and ginger, then turn them out to cool. Put the vegetable into a jar and pour the vinegar and spices over it and tie it down tightly with wash-leather. Potato Salad. Ingredients. Eight large Potatoes. Two tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. One Onion. Two tablespoonfuls of Parsley. Two Yolks of Egg. One gill of Salad Oil. Pepper and Salt. One head of Lettuce. Boil the potatoes until tender, but not broken; allow them to get cold, then cut into quarters, and then slices, in a salad bowl; sprinkle the chopped onion and parsley; add seasoning. Put the yolks of egg into a basin, and stir in very gradually the oil and vinegar; pour this over the potatoes; mix with a fork, garnish with lettuce. Potato Scallops. Ingredients. Two pounds of Cold Potatoes. Half a pint of Milk. Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of grated Cheese (Parmesan is best). Pepper and Salt. Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve and stir into them the grated cheese. Melt the butter, stir it into the potatoes with the milk and mash them quite soft, add pepper and salt to taste. Fill some patty-pans with the mashed potato and brown them in the oven, brush them over while hot with a little butter and grated cheese, serve in the patty pans.Stewed Lentils. Ingredients. Half pint of Brown Lentils. One ounce of Butter. One gill of Stock. One Onion. Pepper and Salt. Soak the lentils all night. Put them into a saucepan, with cold water enough to cover them, and a teaspoonful of salt; let them boil gently for one hour, with the lid off, till all the water is gone. Slice the onion, and fry it in one ounce of fat in a sauce- pan ; when the lentils are quite tender put them into the saucepan with the butter, and one gill of stock. Season with pepper and salt, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Stewed Spanish Onion. Ingredients. One Spanish Onion. Quarter of a pint of Milk. Half an ounce of Flour. One ounce of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Skin the onion, put it into boiling water, and boil till quite tender from one to two hours, according to size; pour away the water. Mix the butter and flour together in a stewpan over the fire, and when it is well mixed stir in the milk, add pepper and salt, and boil five minutes. Let the onion get thoroughly hot in the sauce, and serve in a vegetable dish.62 PUDDINGS & SWEET DISHES. Apple Amber. Ingredients. Six ounces of Bread-crumbs. Two ounces of Flour. Four ounces of Suet. Three-quarters of a pound of Apples. Two ounces of castor Sugar. One Lemon. Nutmeg. Two Eggs. Half an ounce of Fat. Chop the suet up finely, and mix it with the flour. Peel the apples, cut out the core, and chop them up. Add the bread- crumbs, sugar, and chopped apple to the flour and suet, also some grated lemon peel and nutmeg. Break the eggs into a separate basin, add them to the other ingredients, and mix well together. Grease a pint mould with the fat, and pour in the mixture. Tie a cloth over the top, and boil for three hours. Apple Charlotte. No. 1. Ingredients. Two pounds of Apples. Half a pound of Loaf Sugar. The rind of one Lemon. Bread and clarified Butter. Peel the apples and slice them into a stewpan, with some sugar and water; then add the lemon-rind, and let them boil for one hour and a half, stirring it occasionally; then take out the lemon rind. Dip a round of crumb of bread, cut in quarters, into the clarified butter, and place them at the bottom of a mould ; then dip some strips of bread into the butter, and put them round the sides of the mould, and pour the apple into the middle of the mould. Take a whole round of bread dipped in butter and place it cn the top, and bake for three-quarters of an hour.63 Apple Charlotte. No. 2. Ingredients. One pound of Apples. Four ounces of Suet. Six ounces of Bread-crumbs. Quarter of a pound of Sugar. One Lemon. Peel, core, and cut up the apples; chop the suet up very finely, rub the bread-crumbs through a sieve, and grate the rind of the lemon. Grease a pie-dish, mix the suet and bread-crumbs together, sprinkle the sugar and grated lemon-rind over the apples. Fill the pie-dish with alternate layers of the mixed suet and crumbs and the apples. Bake in a moderate oven one hour. Baked Apple Dumplings. Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Quarter of a pound of clarified Dripping or Butter. Half a teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Six Apples. Moist Sugar. Make a crust with the flour, dripping, and baking-powder, and divide it into six portions. Peel and core the apples and fill the centre with moist sugar. Place an apple in the centre of the paste and work the piece of paste round it till quite covered ; do the same with all six. Grease a tin, place the apple dumplings on it and bake for a quarter of an hour. Apple Fritters. Ingredients. Four ounces of Flour. One gill of tepid Water. One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. Salt. Whites of two Eggs. Four Apples. Put the flour into a large basin, with half a saltspoonftil of salt; add the salad oil and the tepid water gradually (if oil is objected to, one ounce of melted butter may be used instead). Beat the64 whites to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly. In winter clean snow might be used instead of whites of eggs. Peel the apples, cut them in rings, remove the core, dip them in the batter, and fry a nice brown on either side. Serve with castor sugar dredged over. Apple Jelly. Ingredients. One pound of Apples. One Lemon. Three ounces of Lump Sugar. Half an ounce of Gelatine. Half a teaspoonful of Cochineal. Peel the apples, cut out the core, and cut them in small pieces, put them in a stewpan with the sugar and half a pint of water; then grate some lemon-rind, and squeeze some lemon-juice into it, and let it boil till the apples are quite tender. Dissolve the gelatine in cold water by the side of the fire. When the apples are cooked to a pulp pass them through a sieve, stir in the gelatine, and allow to cool a little. Rinse a mould with cold water, and pour in the apple in a layer, half of it being covered with cochineal, and set it aside to cool. Boiled Apple Pudding. Ingredients. Half a pound of Flour. Five ounces of Suet. Salt. One pound and a half of Apples. Two ounces of Brown Sugar. Six Cloves. Chop up the suet fine, add it to the flour with half a salt- spoonful of salt, mix it with cold water to a stiff paste. Put on a large saucepan of warm water to boil, cut off one-third of the pastry and roll out the rest in a round, about twice the size of the top of the basin. Grease the basin thoroughly and put in the pastry to line it, cut up the apples in quarters, half fill the basin, put in the sugar and two tablespoonfuls of water, and cloves ; fill it up ,with the apples. Roll out the remainder of the crust, wet the edge of the pastry and put the top on, press the65 edges together and trim round. Take a pudding cloth, dip it into boiling water, dredge it with flour and lay it over the top of the basin, put a pleat in cloth to let the pudding swell. When the water is quite boiling, put in the pudding and let it boil two hours. A kettle should be put on the fire, so that the saucepan may be filled up from time to time. For serving, take the cloth off and carefully turn the pudding out on to a hot dish. Arrowroot Pudding. Ingredients. A dessertspoonful of Arrowroot. Half a pint of Milk. Castor Sugar. Two Eggs. Mix a dessertspoonful of milk and arrowroot into a paste ; put the sugar into a saucepan with the rest of the milk, and let it come to the boil, then pour it on to the arrowroot paste, stirring all the time. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and add to the above mixture; whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in lightly; pour it into a buttered dish, and bake for ten minutes. Baroness Pudding. Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pound of Suet. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Three-quarters of a pound of Stoned Raisins. Half a pint of Milk. One Egg, Quarter of a teaspoonful of Salt. Chop the suet finely, stone the raisins, cut them in half, and mix them with the flour, salt, and suet; add the egg and the milk. Stir well; tie in a cloth and boil four hours and a half. Serve with castor sugar sifted over the top. F66 Batter Pudding. Ingredients. Half’a pound of Flour. Salt. Two Eggs. One pint of Milk. Put the flour into a basin and mix the salt with it, break the eggs into it and beat them well together, add by degrees the milk, stirring all the time until the batter is mixed. Grease a pudding basin and pour the batter in. Wet a pudding cloth, flour it and place it over the pudding, tying it securely round the edge, tie the four corners over the top and put it into a saucepan of boiling water; let it boil for one hour. When done turn the pudding out on to a hot dish. Bread and Butter Pudding. Ingredients. Six thin slices of Bread and Butter. Half an ounce of clarified Dripping. One ounce of Currants. Nutmeg, and one tablespoonful of moist Sugar. Two Eggs. One pint of Milk. Grease a pie-dish with the dripping, and lay the slices of bread and butter into it, with the currants in between each slice. Beat the eggs, add to them the sugar and milk, and stir them well together. Pour this custard over the bread and butter, and grate son e nutmeg over the top. Bake it in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Baked Bread Pudding. Ingredients. One pound of scraps of Bread. Quarter of a pound of Suet. Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of candied Peel. Half a pound of Fruit. One Egg. One gill of Milk.6 7 Soak the bread in cold water, then squeeze very dry. Put the bread into a basin and beat out the lumps. Chop the suet finely, clean the fruit, slice the peel, and beat the egg. Mix all the dry ingredients together, then add egg and milk. Turn into a greased tin, and bake for one hour. Boiled Bread Pudding. Ingredients. One pound of Bread. Three ounces of Suet. Three ounces of Sugar. Quarter of a pound of Raisins or Sultanas. Three ounces of Flour or one Egg. Season with Lemon, Vanilla, or Nutmeg. Soak the bread in cold water, then squeeze it quite dry. Put it into a basm, and beat out all the lumps, chop the suet, clean the fruit, and mix all the dry ingredients together; beat up the egg (if you use one), and stir it well into the basin with the other ingredients. Put this mixture into a mould, and steam for three or four hours. Fig Pudding. /tigredieiits. Half a pound of dried Figs. Quarter of a pound of moist Sugar. Six ounces of Suet. Quarter of a pound of Bread-crumbs. Quarter of a pound of Flour. Two Eggs. Salt. Half a pint of Milk. Nutmeg. Put a saucepan of water on the fire to boil. Chop the suet and figs up very finely. Put the flour, suet, and half a saltspoon- ful of salt into a basin, rubbing the suet well into the flour; now add the bread-crumbs, chopped figs, the sugar and a little nutmeg, and mix them all well together. Break the eggs into a basin and add the milk. Stir this in with the other ingredients. Put the mixture into a greased basin, cover with greased paper, and steam six hours. F 268 French Rice Pudding. Ingredients. Three ounces of castor Sugar. Three ounces of Rice. Three ounces of Suet. Quarter of a pound of Raisins. Three ounces of candied Peel. Two Eggs. One pint of Milk. Wash tire rice in several waters, put it into a stewpan with the milk, and let it cook until the milk is absorbed. Stone and chop the raisins, chop the suet, and slice the peel; beat all these ingre- dients with the sugar into the rice, beat the eggs well, and add them. Pour this mixture into a greased pudding-basin, cover it with a buttered paper, and steam for one hour and three-quarters. Friars Omelet. Ingredients. Two pounds of Apples. Four ounces of Sugar. Grated rind and juice of one Lemon. One gill of Water. One ounce of Butter. Half a pint of Brown Bread-crumbs. Peel, cut up and cook the apples in the sugar and water; add the grated rind and juice of lemon, and rub all through a hair sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan and cook the apples again until they make a marmalade. Grease a pie-dish and fill it with alternate layers of apple and brown bread-crumbs; bake in oven about ten minutes. Fruit Pie. Ingredients. Six ounces of Flour. Two ounces of clarified Fat or Dripping. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Three teaspoonfuls of brown Sugar. Fruit (Apples, Plums). Cut up the fruit and half fill the pie-dish; add the sugar, and fill it with the rest of the fruit. Put the flour into a basin,6g rub the fat into it, add the baking powder, and sufficient water to form the whole into a stiff paste. Roll it out the shape of the dish, but larger, about one-third of an inch thick. Cut a piece off the edge to go round the pie-dish, wet the pastry, and put on the top, carefully pressing the two edges together with your finger; ornament the edge. Brush the tart over with water, sprinkle with castor sugar, and bake from half to three-quarters of an hour. Goblet Pie. Ingredients. Two ounces of cold Meat. Two ounces of chopped Suet. Two ounces of moist Sugar. Two ounces of Currants. Two ounces of Plums. Two ounces of chopped Apples. Quarter of a pound of Flour. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Baking-powder. One ounce of Dripping. Chop up the meat finely (there should be two tablespoonfuls). Chop the suet and apples, clean the currants, stone the raisins, and cut them in small pieces. Mix these ingredients with the sugar, and put the mixture into a pie-dish. Put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin, rub the dripping into it with the tips of your fingers, add the baking powder and sufficient water to form the whole into a stiff paste. Roll it out on a floured board, a quarter of an inch thick; roll it the shape of the pie-dish, and cut off the outside edge to put round the dish. Wet the dish and press it on with your fingers; wet the edge of the pastry with water, place the top on, and trim it neatly round the edge. Brush it over with water, sprinkle some castor sugar over, and bake for half an hour. Hominy Blanc-Mange. Ingredients. One pint of Milk. Two tablespoonfuls of Hominy. One tablespoonful of Sugar. Lemon-peel.7o Put the milk, hominy, sugar, and lemon-peel into a saucepan and let them boil till tender; after that rinse a mould with cold water, and pour the hominy into it. Let it cool, and then turn it out on to a dish. Lemon Jelly. Ingredients. Half a pint of Lemon Juice. One and a half pint of Water. Six ounces of Sugar. One inch of Cinnamon. Four Cloves. Two and a half ounces of French Gelatine. The rind of two Lemons cut very thin. Two whites and shells of two Eggs. Put all these ingredients into a stewpan together and whisk over the fire until it boils, then draw it to the side of the fire and let it stand for about five minutes. Strain it through a clean cloth scalded, and put on a soup-stand. When it is set it is ready for use. Lemon Pudding. No. 1. Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Quarter of a pound of Dripping. One large Lemon. Moist Sugar. One teaspoonful of Flour. Mix three-quarters of a pound of Hour and a quarter of a pound of dripping well together, add water to make a smooth paste, and roll it out about half an inch thick; squeeze the juice of the lemon into a cup, stir in the teaspoonful of flour and enough moist sugar to make it into a stiff, thick paste ; spread this mixture over the paste, roll it up, secure the ends, tie up in a floured cloth, and boil for two hours.7i Lemon Pudding. No. 2. Ingredients. Half a pound of Bread-crumbs. Quarter of a pound of Suet. Two ounces of Flour. Quarter of a pound of Moist Sugar. Two Lemons. Two Eggs. Two tablespoonfuls of Milk. Chop up the suet very fine, and rub it into the flour with your fingers, in a basin, then add the bread-crumbs and moist sugar, the grated rind and the juice of the two lemons. Break the two eggs in another basin, and beat well together with two tablespoonfuls of milk ; pour the milk and eggs on to the other ingredients, and mix well together. Grease a pint basin, pour in the mixture, cover it with a greased paper, and steam for four hours, then turn it out of the basin and serve. To steam any pudding, stand it in a saucepan with enough boiling water to come half-way up the basin; as the water boils away add more boiling water, and keep the lid on the saucepan to keep the steam in. Lemon Tartlets. Ingredients. Juice of two Lemons and the grated Peel of one. Five ounces of castor Sugar. Two teaspoonfuls of Corn Flour. Twelve Raisins. Cut the raisins in half, stone them and stew them in a little drop of water. Mix the corn-flour with the lemon-juice, stir in the rind and juice of the lemons, the sugar and the raisins, beat these well together. Line some patty-pans with a thin paste, fill them with mixture, cover them over with paste and bake for about ten minutes. Make the paste the same as for fruit pie. (See page 68.)72 Lemon Sponge. Ingredients. Half an ounce of Gelatine. Half a pint of Water. Rind and juice of Lemon. One ounce of Sugar. One white of Egg. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add the lemon-rind and sugar; strain the lemon-juice into a basin with the white of an egg, then strain on to that the dissolved gelatine, and whisk all together till quite stiff, so that the spoon could stand up in it. Macaroni Pudding. Ingredients. One ounce of Macaroni. One pint of Milk. Two Eggs. The peel of half a Lemon grated. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of castor Sugar. Simmer the macaroni till it is tender in the milk. Beat the yolks of two eggs with the sugar and the butter, add the lemon- peel grated ; stir these into the macaroni and milk. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in also very lightly. Pour all these ingredients into a buttered pie-dish and bake for half an hour. Macaroni Sweet. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Macaroni. Two pints of Milk and half-ounce of Lump Sugar. Half the rind of one Lemon. Two Eggs. Put the milk in the saucepan with the lemon-rind and sugar. When boiling drop in the macaroni, in pieces about three inches long, and simmer for half an hour. Then beat up the eggs ; stir them in with the macaroni. Pour into a greased pie-dish, grate over it a little nutmeg, and bake for ten minutes.73 Marmalade Pudding. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Bread-crumbs. Two ounces of Suet. Two ounces of candied Peel. One Lemon. One Egg. Three tablespoonfuls of Marmalade. Chop the suet very finely, shred the candied peel, grate the rind of the lemon; put these ingredients with the crumbs into a basin, and mix with them the marmalade and egg. Well grease a basin, turn in the mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam two hours. Milk Jelly from Cowheel. Ingredients. Half a Cowheel. One quart of Milk. Two inches of stick Cinnamon. Sugar. Cut the cowheel up into small pieces and put these pieces into an earthen jar with one quart of milk and the cinnamon ; put the lid on the jar and tie a piece of paper lightly over it, put it into a slow oven to stew for about three hours. When it is stewed take the jar out of the oven, and strain the milk into a basin and sweeten it according to taste, then put it aside till the jelly is set. The cowheel is very nice served with onion sauce. Norfolk Dumplings. Ingredients. One pound of Patent Flour. Water. Mix the flour and water so as to make a smooth dough, not too stiff. Form this dough into round balls the size of an egg, and put them into boiling water to boil for twenty minutes.74 Ox-Foot Jelly. Ingredients. One Ox-foot. One gill of Lemon-juice. Quarter of a pound of lump Sugar. Two whites and shells of Eggs. Spices. Three Cloves. Small piece Cinnamon. The peel of one Lemon. Well wash and cut the foot into three pieces, put them into a saucepan well covered with cold water • bring to the boil, and skim. Stew gently for eight hours; strain into a basin. When the jelly is cold carefully skim off the fat; dip a cloth in hot water and wipe off every particle of fat. Put the stock into a stewpan, with the rind and the juice of the lemon, sugar, spices, whites and shells of egg. Whisk over the fire till the jelly reaches boiling point, then partly cover it with the lid, and let it gently simmer for twenty minutes. Strain till clear through a kitchen cloth, then pour the jelly into a mould till set. Pancakes. Ingredients. Four ounces of Flour. One Egg. Half a pint of Milk. Salt. Sugar. One Lemon. Put the four ounces of flour into a basin, add the egg to it (having first ascertained that it is a good one), and pour in gradually one gill of the milk. Beat it well, and then add the rest of the milk. Strain the mixture into a jug; if possible it is better to let this mixture stand before frying it. Put a small frying-pan on the fire, put into it a piece of lard the size of a nut, let it get quite hot, then pour in sufficient batter to cover the bottom of the pan thinly ; when it has become a light brown on one side, toss it over to brown on the other side. Turn it out on a piece of kitchen paper, dredge sugar over it, and a squeeze of lemon-juice ; roll it up, and proceed in this manner till all the batter is used up. Sufficient for twelve or fourteen pancakes.75 Pease Pudding. Ingredients. One pint of Split Peas. One Egg. One ounce of Butter. Salt and Pepper. Soak the peas over-night; tie them tightly in a cloth, put them on in cold water, and let them boil for one hour; then rub them through a sieve, mix in one egg, the butter, pepper, and salt; then flour a cloth, and put the pudding in it, tie it up tightly, and boil it in boiling water for one hour. PI um Pudding, Boiled. Ingredients. Five ounces of Bread-crumbs. Seven ounces of Flour. Quarter of a pound of Suet. Quarter of a pound of Raisins, Quarter of a pound of Currants. Two ounces of Moist Sugar. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Two Eggs. One gill of Milk. Put a large saucepan of water on the Are to boil. Chop the suet as finely as possible, and rub it into the flour in a basin; add the bread-crumbs, sugar, and baking-powder. Clean the currants with a little flour; stone the raisins. Mix all the dry ingredients together. Break the eggs in a basin and beat them up, add the milk to them, and stir it all into the pudding. Mix well together, and put into a well-greased basin; flour a pudding-cloth, tie it securely over the pudding and put it into the boiling water. Boil it three hours. This pudding may be boiled in a cloth, and then will not take so long to boil.76 Plum Pudding, Baked. Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Quarter of a pound of Suet. Quarter of a pound of Sugar. Quarter of a pound of stoned Raisins. Quarter of a pound of Currants. Two ounces of Peel. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. A saltspoonful of grated Nutmeg. One gill of Milk. One Egg. Mix all the dry ingredients, break the egg into the milk, and mix all well together. Grease a tin, pour in the mixture, and bake for thirty minutes. When done, turn it out, cut into neat squares, and serve with castor sugar dusted over it. Rice Pudding. Ingredients. One and a half ounce of Rice. One pint of Milk. One tablespoonful of moist Sugar. Grated Nutmeg. Grease a pie-dish, wash the rice, and put it into the dish with the moist sugar over it; pour three-quarters of a pint of milk on to it, grate some nutmeg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven two hours. Add the remaining quarter of a pint of milk by degrees as the rice swells. Roly Poly Pudding. Ingredients. Half a pot of Jam. Half a pound of Flour. Five ounces of Beef Suet. Salt. Take the suet and chop it very finely; put the flour into a basin, and add to it chopped suet and a teaspoonful of salt; rub the suet into the flour well with the hands, and then add by degrees enough water to make it into a stiff paste; turn it77 out on to a floured board and roll it out very thin; take the jam, and spread it well all over the paste, and then roll the paste up. Take a clean cloth and wring it out in warm water, sprinkle a little flour over it and place the rolled paste in the middle, roll it round and tie up the ends securely with string. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water to boil for two hours; when done, turn the pudding out of the cloth on to a hot dish. Semolina Pudding. Ingredients. Half pint of Milk. One tablespoonful of Semolina. One Egg. One dessertspoonful of moist Sugar. Fat and Nutmeg. Put the milk on the fire to boil, when it boils sprinkle in the semolina and cook it well in the milk. Beat the egg with the sugar in a basin, and when the semolina is sufficiently cool, stir it into the saucepan. Grease a pie-dish and pour in the mixture, grate a quarter of a teaspoonful of nutmeg over the pudding and bake it for a quarter of an hour. Snowdon Pudding. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Raisins. Three ounces of Suet. Quarter of a pound of Bread-crumbs. Three-quarters of an ounce of Ground Rice. Three ounces of Marmalade. One Lemon (grated rind). Two Eggs. Half a gill of Milk. Pinch of Salt. Three ounces of castor Sugar. Ornament a greased pudding-basin with the raisins, stoned, cut in halves, but not divided, pressing the cut side on the basin. Put the suet finely-chopped, crumbs, rice, sugar, lemon, and salt into a basin, and thoroughly mix, then beat in the marmalade, eggs, and milk ; pour the mixture into the ornamented basin, cover with a greased paper, and steam one hour.78 Spotted Dick. Ingredients. Half a pound of Suet. One pound of Flour. Quarter of a pound of Currants, Raisins, or Sultanas. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Put a saucepan of water on to boil. Chop the suet up finely and mix the flour and baking-powder, then add enough water to mix it to a stiff paste. Roll out about half an inch thick, and spread the fruit over the paste; roll it up and wet the edges. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, wring it out and flour it, turn the paste on to the cloth, and tie it up tightly, allowing room for the pudding to swell. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water and boil it for one hour and a half. Suet Pudding. Ingredients. Half a pound of Suet. One pound of Flour. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Chop the suet very fine and mix well with the flour and baking-powder; make this into a stiff dough with cold water. Dip a pudding-cloth into boiling water, dredge well with flour, put in the dough ; tie it up securely in the cloth, but leave it room to s well. Boil in plenty of water two hours and a half. Swiss Roll. Ingredients. Two tablespoonfuls of Milk. Two Eggs. Their weight in Fat or Butter (i f oz.), Sugar and Flour. Half teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Jam or Marmalade. Cream the fat and sugar, add half the flour and one egg well beaten, then add the remainder of the flour and the other egg, and mix well together; then add the milk and the baking-79 powder. Grease a paper, fit it on a baking tin, and spread the mixture on it; bake about ten minutes. Then spread it with three large tablespoonfuls of jam or marmalade, roll it up care- fully, and sift castor sugar over it. In cold weather, the chill should be taken off the milk. The same ingredients make Canary Pudding, without jam or marmalade, and it must be put into a mould and steamed one hour. Tapioca or Sago Blanc-Mange. Ingredients. Five ounces of Tapioca. One pint and a half of Milk. Three ounces of castor Sugar. Vanilla or Lemon. Soak the tapioca for four hours in one pint of cold water, then stir it into the milk boiling, add the sugar, flavour it to taste with vanilla essence; boil it for fifteen minutes, then pour it into a mould ; when it is cold turn it out. Treacle Pudding. No. 1. Ingredients. Half a pound of Flour. Quarter of a pound of Suet. Half a teaspoonfui of Carbonate of Soda. Salt. Three-quarters of an ounce of ground Ginger. One gill of Treacle. Quarter of a pint of Milk. One Egg. Chop the suet as finely as possible, and put it into a basin with the flour, carbonate of soda and ginger. Beat up the egg, mix the treacle and milk with it, and stir this into the mixture in the basin ; add more milk if required to make the pudding moist. Grease a basin thoroughly, put the pudding mixture into it, cover with a greased paper. Have enough boiling water to come half- way up the basin in a saucepan, and steam for two hours.8o Treacle Pudding. No. 2. Ingredients, One pound of Flour. Ten ounces of Suet. Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. One Lemon. Half a pint of Treacle. Salt. Chop up the suet very finely; add it to the flour with a pinch of salt; mix it to a stiff paste with a little cold water. Line a pudding-basin with the paste. Pour in a layer of treacle, then a layer of bread-crumbs and grated lemon-rind mixed, and so on alternately until the basin is full. Tie the basin over with a pudding-cloth, and boil for two hours and a half. Boiled Bread or Plum Pudding. Ingredients. One pound of scraps of Bread. Four ounces Flour. Four ounces Brown Sugar. Three ounces Currants. Three ounces Plums. Three ounces chopped Suet. A pinch of ground Ginger. A teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Soak the bread for some hours and then press all the water out; mix in all the other ingredients, tie this up tightly in a floured cloth and boil for two hours. Bread Fritters. Ingredients. Half-pint Milk. Half-teaspoonful of Sugar. A little Salt. Two or three pieces of Lemon Peel. One Egg. Two ounces Butter. Six or eight pieces of Bread about quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut out with a round or oval cutter. Boil the milk with the lemon peel, sugar and salt in it, dip the pieces of bread in the milk, break the egg and beat it up, and dip the bread also in the egg; then fry the pieces a nice light brown in the butter, sprinkle over with castor sugar, or put some jam on the top and serve very hot.8i Cambridge Pudding. Ingredients. One pound of Flour. One and a half pints of skimmed Milk. One Egg. Two ounces of Sugar. Half-pound of Apples peeled and sliced. Make a smooth batter of the flour, milk and egg, add the sugar and the apples. Grease a basin, pour in the mixture, tie a floured cloth over the top, and boil for two hours. You can use any fruit you like instead of apples. Curate’s Pudding. Ingredients. One pound of cooked Potatoes. Two ounces of Butter. Five ounces of loaf Sugar. Two Eggs. Two Lemons. A little Salt. While the potatoes are hot, rub them through a sieve, add the butter, melted, to the potatoes. Rub the rinds of the lemons on a lump of sugar, and add to the potato mixture, also the two eggs beaten up with a pinch of salt and the juice of the two lemons. Stir these ingredients all well together, put them into a buttered tin or pie dish, bake in a moderate oven about thirty minutes ; turn out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Rice Shape. Ingredients. Half-pound Rice. One quart of Milk. Three Eggs. Two ounces castor Sugar. Rind of a Lemon or a few drops of Vanilla. Wash the rice in cold water, then boil it very slowly in a quart of milk with the rind of the lemon cut very thin; when the rice G82 is quite cooked take it off the fire and let it cool a little, sweeten it to taste and add the three eggs beaten up. Take a mould, melt the sugar and run it, when melted thoroughly, all over the mould, being careful to leave no part of it uncoated with sugar, pour the rice into the mould; cover it over with buttered paper, and bake it for about half an hour; then turn it out and pour a custard round it, not over it. Serve hot or cold. Windsor Pudding. Ingredients. One pound Suet. Six Eggs. One pound of Bread Crumbs. Quarter-pound Flour. Half-pound Peel. One pound Currants. Half-pound moist Sugar. Four raw Potatoes and four raw Carrots grated. Mix all iogether and boil four or five hours. Yorkshire Pudding. Ingredients. Four ounces of Flour. One Egg. Half-pint of Milk. Break the egg into the flour, with a little of the milk, and stir till quite smooth; add the rest of the milk by degrees. Put the pudding-lin under the meat you are roasting to catch some of the dripping, then pour in the pudding and bake half an hour. When done, cut into nice square pieces, put on a dish and serve.»3 EGGS, SAVOURIES, & BREAK- FAST DISHES. Curried Eggs. Ingredients. One ounce of Butter. Half Apple. One teaspoonful of Curry Powder. Gill of Stock. One dessertspoonful of Flour. Two Eggs. Half Onion. Fry some apple and onion, then stir in the curry powder and flour, and the stock ; simmer for fifteen minutes. Boil the eggs hard, and cut in six pieces; warm half the pieces in the curry. Arrange the remaining half in a circle or dish; pour the curry in the centre of the eggs, or a border of rice. Eggs sur le plat. Ingredients. Three Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Salt and Pepper. Lightly butter a small oval dish, upon which break the eggs without breaking the yolks ; season lightly with a little pepper and salt, put a few small pieces of butter here and there upon them, and then set the dish in a small oven, where let it remain until the whites become set, but by no means hard, and serve hot; if the oven is moderately hot they will take about ten minutes. G 284 Ham Toast. Ingredients. Three ounces of lean Ham. One ounce of Butter. Chopped Parsley. Pepper. Toast. Mince the ham very fine, and put it in a stewpan with the butter, chopped parsley and some pepper. When quite hot pour it on some slices of hot buttered toast. Serve very hot. Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel. Ingredients. Three Kidneys. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. One and a half ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Pepper and Salt, and a few grains of Cayenne. Mix the butter, parsley, cayenne, pepper and salt all well together. Skin the kidneys, split them open, and run a skewer through them to keep them open ; put them on a gridiron, the inside of the kidneys next the fire first, turn them and grill for about seven minutes. Dish them up on croutes of fried bread, sprinkle a little pepper and salt on each kidney and put a small pat of the butter mixture also on each. Serve very hot. Kidneys and Potato Chips. Ingredients. Three Kidneys. Three rashers of Bacon. Six Potatoes. One ounce of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into pieces about the size of your little finger, fry them a light brown in boiling fat. Take the skin off the kidneys, and cut them in half, and cook them in the frying-pan with the rashers of bacon; do not put in the kidneys until the bacon is nearly cooked, and let them be85 slightly underdone and full of gravy. To serve, put the fried potatoes on a hot dish, with the bacon and kidneys neatly arranged on the top; put a small piece of butter and a sprinkle of pepper and salt on each kidney. Serve very hot. Kidney and Tomato Sauce. Ingredients. Half a pound of Tomatoes. One gill of Stock. One ounce of fat Bacon. Half an ounce of Flour. Three Kidneys. One Onion chopped very fine. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. One ounce of Butter. One Egg. Pepper and Salt, and Bread-crumbs. Put the tomatoes into a stewpan with the bacon cut in slices ; let them cook for about ten minutes till quite soft, then add the flour and stock, stir well to keep it smooth, and let it simmer again for another ten minutes. Skin the kidneys and cut them in half; melt the butter on a plate and mix into it the chopped onion and parsley, pepper and salt, and the egg ; dip the pieces of kidney into this mixture, cover them lightly with the sifted bread- crumbs, and fry in boiling fat for from two to three minutes, taking care not to cook them too much. Place each kidney on a round piece of fried or toasted bread. Arrange the kidneys nicely on a hot dish and strain the tomato sauce round them. Savoury Rice. Ingredients. Three ounces of Rice. Half a pint of Milk. One ounce of Butter. Two ounces of grated Parmesan Cheese. Pepper and Salt. Wash the rice, and boil it in the milk till quite tender, add the pepper and salt. Butter a dish, spread half the rice on it, sprinkle half the cheese on it; add the rest of the rice, sprinkle over it the rest of the cheese, put the butter on the top in small pieces, and brown in a quick oven.86 Savoury Omelet. Ingredients. Two Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Salt, Pepper, and chopped Parsley. Break the eggs into a basin and beat lightly together, just enough to mix them thoroughly; sprinkle in the chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Have the butter quite hot in the omelet-pan, pour in the eggs, stir quickly to prevent the mixture from sticking or burning. As soon as the edges are set, fold it over towards the handle of pan with your spoon, cook lightly for a moment, turn it on to a hot dish and serve. About a teaspoonful of very finely-chopped parsley is enough ; and a morsel of shallot and grated ham may be added if liked. To Poach an Egg. Ingredients. One Egg. One pint of Water. One teaspoonful of Salt. Two or three drops of Lemon-juice. Put the water, salt and lemon-juice into a stewpan, and bring to the boil. Break the egg carefully into the boiling water. Keep the pan simmering till the white is quite set, about a minute and a half. Take it gently up with a slice, cut away the ragged edges, and serve on toast with slices of ham or bacon, or on spinach. Toast and Eggs. Ingredients. Two Eggs. Two ounces of Fresh Butter. Salt and Pepper. Break the eggs into a small stewpan, add the salt, pepper, and butter; set the stewpan over a moderate fire, and stir the eggs round with a wooden spoon, being careful to keep every particle in motion, until the whole has become a smooth and delicate thickish paste; have ready a convenient sized piece of toast, pour the eggs upon it, and serve immediately.87 Macaroni Cheese. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Macaroni. Half a pint of Milk. Three ounces of grated Cheese. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Salt and Cayenne Pepper. One teaspoonful of made Mustard. Put a saucepan of water on the fire to boil; put in the macaroni with one teaspoonful of salt, and boil till tender; then take out the macaroni, cut it up into convenient pieces, and throw the water away. Melt one ounce of butter, stir in the flour, and add the milk and seasoning. Boil it well, put in the macaroni, let it cool a little, then add half the cheese. Turn it out on to a greased dish or tin, put the rest of the cheese over it; brown it with a salamander, or put it in the oven for ten minutes. Garnish with sippets of fried bread. Grilled Mushrooms. Ingredients. Large Mushrooms. Butter, Pepper, and Salt. Peel the mushrooms, and cut off the stalks; put them on a gridiron, sprinkle a little pepper and salt on them and grill them for about ten minutes in front of a clear fire, putting the outside of the mushrooms towards the fire and not turning them. When cooked serve on a hot dish with a little piece of butter on each. Stewed Mushrooms. Ingredients. One pint of Button Mushrooms. One ounce of Flour. One and a half ounce of Butter. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon Juice. Half a pint of White Stock (Second Stock will do). Pepper and Salt.88 Peel the mushrooms carefully, but leave the stalks on; put them into a stewpan with the stock, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, and let them simmer for half an hour. Mix the butter and flour together on a plate with a knife until it is quite smooth, then stir it to the mushrooms and let all simmer another five minutes to cook the flour. Serve very hot. Potted Beef. Ingredients. Two pounds of lean Beef. Two Allspice. Two Cloves. Four Peppercorns. One Bay-leaf. A saltspoonful of Salt. Half a saltspoonful of Pepper. Two ounces of Butter. Three Anchovies preserved in oil. A blade of whole Mace. Butter the inside of a quart stone jar, and put the meat into it cut up in pieces; tie all the spice up in a piece of muslin, and put them also into the jar. Tie the cover on to the jar, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Then take out the spices, and pound the beef and anchovies well together in a mortar, and rub through a hair sieve. Put into pots, and cover closely over with clarified butter; this will keep well for quite a week. Welsh Rare-bit. Ingredients. One ounce of Cheese. One ounce of Butter. One tcaspoonful of made Mustard. Melt all these ingredients together in a stew-pan, stirring well with a wooden spoon, then pour it over hot buttered toast. Serve very hot.89 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Brandy Wafers. Ingredients. Six ounces of Treacle. Three ounces of Butter. Three and a half ounces of Flour. Five ounces of Sugar. Quarter of an ounce of ground Ginger. Melt the butter and treacle together, and stir in gradually the flour, sugar, and ginger; mix well together. Grease a baking tin and drop the mixture on to it in spoonfuls a little distance apart, and bake for a quarter of an hour. Bread. Ingredients. Three and a half pounds of Flour. One ounce of Yeast. One teaspoonful of Salt. One teaspoonful of castor Sugar. Put the yeast and sugar into a basin, and cream them to- gether with a wooden spoon till liquid ; add one pint and a half of tepid water. Put the flour into a large basin, make a well in the middle, and strain the yeast and water into it. Work in a little flour from the sides, and set it down to rise. This is called “ setting the sponge.” When it has stood for twenty minutes the surface will be covered with bubbles ; take it up, and work all the flour in with your hand. When it is smooth cover it up, and set to rise for two hours. After that time take it up, and knead it on a floured board for a quarter of an hour. This quantity will make two half-quartern loaves. Divide the dough, make it into smooth balls without any cracks. If the bread is to be baked in tins flour them, put in the dough, cut or prick the top, and set to rise for half an hour. For cottage loaves, divide each piece again in two, one rather larger than the other; make each into a ball, put the small one on the top of the large, and press the forefinger into the middle of the top. Put the bread into a hot oven (280°) for a quarter of an hour and then remove it to a cooler part (220°) for an hour and a half. When done stand it on its side to cool.go Unfermented Bread. Ingredients. One pound Flour. One and a half gill Water. One teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Half teaspoonful of Salt. Put the flour into a basin, add the baking-powder and salt, mix these well with the cold water; and bake in the oven for half an hour. One pound Wholemeal. Half-pint Water. One teaspoonful Baking Powder. Half teaspoonful Salt. Prepare as above. Buns. Ingredients. Three gills of Milk. One ounce of Yeast. One teaspoonful of castor Sugar. Half a pound of Flour. Rub the flour through a sieve into a basin—cream the yeast and sugar together in a small basin, and add to it the milk lukewarm, strain the milk with the yeast and sugar into the flour and beat them well together—cover the basin with paper and set this sponge to rise for about one hour. In another basin put: One pound and a quarter of Flour. Quarter of a pound of Fat. Two ounces of Candied Peel. Two Eggs. Quarter of a pound of Sultanas. Quarter of a pound of Sugar. When the sponge in the first basin has risen, beat in all these dry ingredients from the second basin, with the two eggs. Thoroughly mix and beat them for about five minutes. Then set this sponge to rise again for about one hour and a half; shape this mixture in spoonfuls like buns, and bake them on a greased tin for half an hour. When cooked, and while they are hot, brush them over with a little milk and sugar to glaze them.91 Cornflour Cake. Ingredients. Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Cornflour. Quarter of a pound of loaf Sugar. Two ounces of Butter. Half teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Two Eggs. Beat the butter into a cream, add the pounded loaf sugar, and mix well; break in the eggs, and beat all well together. Now stir lightly into the mixture the cornflour, flour, and baking- powder, and beat it well for five minutes. Grease a cake-tin, pour the mixture in, and put it immediately into the oven to bake for half an hour. When done stand the cake on its side to prevent its getting heavy. Dough Cake. Ingredients. Half a quartern of Dough. One Egg. Quarter of a pound of Sugar. Quarter of a pound of Currants. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce of Candied Peel. Put the dough into a basin and mix it with the currants (well washed), the sugar, and the candied peel (finely chopped). Break the egg into the basin and add the butter to it, and beat all the ingredients well together. Grease a tin and turn the mixture into it, and put it into the oven to bake for forty minutes; when done turn it out of the tin on to its side to cool. Gingerbread Cake. Ingredients. One pound and a half of Flour. One pound of Treacle. Half a pound of Fat. Quarter of a pound of Peel. Half a pound of Sugar. Three Eggs. One gill of Milk. One teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. One ounce and a half of Ground GingGr.92 Pass the flour and ground ginger through a sieve into a basin ; shred the peel finely, and add it to the flour. Put the fat, treacle, and sugar into a stewpan to dissolve; beat the eggs in a small basin, then put the soda into another small basin; add to it the milk last. Mix the flour with the treacle, eggs, and milk, and well beat them. Turn the mixture into a greased cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about one hour and a half. Ginger Nuts. Ingredients, Half pound Flour. One Egg. ** Quarter pound Sugar. Three ounces Butter (about). Half ounce to one ounce of Ground Ginger. Quarter pound Honey or Treacle. Cream the butter and sugar together, stir in the other ingre- dients, working it well until it forms a rather stiff batter. Drop on to a buttered tin, in quantities of about one teaspoonful, and bake for fifteen minutes. Lemon Jumbles. Ingredients. One Egg. Five ounces of castor Sugar. Three ounces of Butter. Fourteen ounces of Flour. Three teaspoonfuls of Milk. One teaspoonful of Cream of Tartar. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. Juice of two Lemons and the grated rind of one. Cream the butter, sugar and egg well together, then stir in the milk, the lemon-juice, and rind. Mix the carbonate of soda and the cream of tartar into the flour, and stir it gradually into the other ingredients till you have a rather stiff paste; then roll it out rather thin, cut it out with a cutter or twist it into an S, and bake in slow oven about ten minutes.93 Milk Biscuits. Ingredients. One gill of Milk. One ounce of Butter. Half a pound of Flour. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Put the milk and butter into a saucepan to warm; put the flour into a basin with the baking-powder. When the milk is hot pour it into the flour, and stir it carefully into a smooth paste. Flour a board, turn the paste out on it, and roll it out as thin as possible. Take a tumbler, and flour it round the edge, and cut the paste into rounds with it; grease a tin and place the biscuits on it, and put them in the oven for twenty minutes, then turn them off the tin to cool. Milk Rolls. Ingredients. One pound of Flour. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Milk. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Take the flour and put it into a basin with the baking-powder; rub in the butter with your hands, then add sufficient milk to make it into a firm dough, about half a pint. Sprinkle the board with flour and turn the dough on to it, cut it into twelve pieces, forming each piece into a small roll. Flour a baking tin, and place the rolls on it, put them into the oven, and let them bake for twenty minutes. Oatmeal Biscuits. Ingredients. Five ounces of Flour. Seven ounces of Oatmeal. One ounce of castor Sugar. Four ounces of Lard or Butter. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. One Egg. Melt the lard or butter, mix together the flour, oatmeal, sugar, and carbonate of soda, then stir in the melted butter. Break the94 egg with a little water into a teacup, beat slightly and stir in with the other ingredients till it becomes a paste. Turn the paste on to a board and roll it out very thinly, then cut it into rounds with a tumbler. Grease a tin and place the biscuits on to it and bake for twenty minutes. Rice Buns. Ingredients. Two ounces of Flour. Quarter of a pound of Ground Rice. Two ounces of Sugar. Two ounces of Fat. Two Eggs. Half a teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Cream the sugar and butter, add half the flour and one egg, then the remainder of the flour, egg, and baking-powder. Grease some small tins or patty-pans, and fill them two-thirds full with the mixture. Put them into the oven and bake them for fifteen minutes ; when done lean them against a plate to get cold. This is sufficient for twelve buns. Rock Cakes. Ingredients. Half a pound of Flour. Quarter of a pound of Currants. Quarter of a pound of Sugar. One ounce of Candied Peel. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. One teaspoonful of grated Nutmeg or Ginger. Three ounces of clarified Dripping. One Egg. About one tablespoonful of Milk. Put the flour and baking-powder into a basin and rub into them the dripping until there are no lumps remaining, then take the currants and rub them in a clean cloth to see that there are no stones in them, add these to the flour, also the nutmeg and sugar. Cut up the candied peel and add it to the other ingre- dients, mix them with a wooden spoon. Break the egg into a cup and beat it up with the milk and mix it with the rest. Grease a tin with dripping and divide the paste into little rough heaps and lay them on the tin; put them into the oven to bake for about fifteen minutes. Sufficient for twelve to fourteen cakes.95 Scones. Ingredients. One pound of Flour. Half-pint of Milk. Three ounces of Fat. Half an ounce of Cream of Tartar. Quarter of an ounce of Carbonate of Soda. One ounce of Sugar. Rub the fat into the flour, and mix into it the cream of tartar and the sugar; pour the milk into a small basin with the soda; mix the flour into a smooth paste with the milk, then roll it out to a thin sheet and cut it into triangular pieces. Flour a tin and put the scones on to it, and bake them directly in the oven from thirty to forty minutes. When they are half done brush them over with milk. Sufficient to make eight large scones. Seed Cake. Ingredients. Half a pound of Flour. Two ounces of Sugar. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. One teaspoonful of Carraway Seeds. Three ounces of clarified Dripping. One gill of Milk. One Egg. Salt. Put the flour into a basin, then take the dripping and rub it well into the flour with the hands until it is without lumps; add to this the sugar, baking-powder and carraway seeds, mixing them well together with a wooden spoon. Break the egg into a cup and beat it up with the milk; pour this in with the other ingredients, and mix the whole quickly into a stiff paste and put it into a well-greased tin, and let it bake for one hour. When the cake is sufficiently baked run a knife into the centre of it, and if it comes out perfectly bright the cake is done; stand it on its side to cool. Sufficient to make twelve cakes. Short-Bread. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Flour. Two and a half ounces of Butter. One ounce of castor Sugar.96 Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, and mix well together. Flour a board and turn the paste on to it, and knead it well; then roll it out pretty thinly, and cut it into oval shapes. Grease a baking-tin and put the short-bread on to it, and let them bake till a pale brown, when they will be done. Shrewsbury Cakes. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Butter. Quarter of a pound of castor Sugar. Eight ounces of Flour. One teaspoonful of grated Lemon-rind. One Egg. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add to them the egg and lemon-rind ; beat all well together, and then stir the flour in smoothly. Flour a board and turn the paste on to it, roll it out as thin as possible, and cut it into rounds with a floured wine-glass.- Put them on a greased baking tin in the oven to bake for twenty minutes, when they will be ready for use. Sultana Cake. Ingredients. Half a pound of Flour. Quarter of a pound of Sultanas. Three ounces of Dripping. Three ounces of castor Sugar. One Egg. Salt. One gill of Milk. A teaspoonful of Baking-powder. One and a half ounces of Candied Peel. Put the flour through a sieve into a basin, then add baking- powder and half a teaspoonful of salt, mixing them well together ; put to them the dripping and rub it well until there are no lumps remaining, then add the fruit cleaned, and the candied peel, the latter cut in small pieces, together with the sugar. Break one egg into a basin and add to it the milk and beat them up, stir this in with the ingredients in the other basin, mixing them well together. Grease a tin with dripping, line with greased paper, and pour the97 mixture into it, put it into a moderate oven and let it bake for about an hour. After this time take the cake out of the tin and stand it on its side, which will prevent its getting heavy. Wheat-meal Bread. Ingredients. One pound and three-quarters of Wheat-meal. Half an ounce of Yeast. Two gills of Water. One gill of Milk. Half a teaspoonful of Salt. Half an ounce of castor Sugar. Mix the milk and water, and make them tepid. Put the yeast and sugar into a small basin, and rub them together with a wooden spoon, till they are liquid. Put the whole-meal and salt into a basin. Add the tepid milk and water gradually to the liquid yeast. Make a well in the centre of the flour, and pour in the liquid; stir sufficient flour into this to make a thin batter, and set in a warm place to rise for thirty minutes. Then work in all the flour, adding more moisture as may be required; knead the bread for five minutes, make it into a shape, stand the bread on a floured tin in a warm place to rise for thirty minutes, then bake in a steady oven one hour and a half. White Gingerbread. Ingredients. One pound of Flour. Half a pound of Butter. Half a pound of castor Sugar. One Lemon. One ounce of ground Ginger. Half a teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. One gill of Milk. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, ground ginger, and grated rind of lemon; mix well; warm the milk, and stir in with the carbonate of soda. Work this into a smooth paste, roll it out and stamp out the cakes with a round cutter. Place these on a baking-sheet and bake in a moderate oven about fifteen to twenty minutes. H98 Yorkshire Tea-Cakes. Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. One and a half gills of Milk. One ounce of Fat. One Egg. Half an ounce of German Yeast. A teaspoonful of castor Sugar. Cream the sugar and the yeast; melt the fat in a saucepan; pour the milk on to it, and make it lukewarm ; pour this on to the yeast and sugar. Pour the yeast and milk through a strainer into the flour, add the egg beaten up, and mix well together. Flour a board and turn the dough on to it, beat it, and cut it into cakes. Grease some cake-tins and put the cakes in, and stand by the fire to rise for one hour, then bake them for a quarter of an hour. SAUCES. Brown Sauce. Ingredients. One small Carrot. One Onion. One ounce of Flour. One ounce of Butter or Fat. Half pint Stock or Water. Cut up the carrot and onion into thin slices, and fry them with the flour in the butter to a nice brown. Then stir in the stock or water, and boil well for ten minutes; if you use stock, the sauce will be brown enough; but if you use water, it will require to be coloured with a little burnt sugar.99 Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton. Ingredients. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce of Flour. Half a pint of cold Water. Salt. Two tablespoonfuls of Capers. One teaspoonful of Caper Vinegar. Mix the flour and butter together in a stewpan, stir in half a pint of cold water, and let it boil for five minutes. Salt to taste, stir in two tablespoonfuls of capers cut in halves, and the caper vinegar. Let it simmer gently for two minutes, and it is ready for use. Cornflour Sauce. Ingredients. Half an ounce of Cornflour. Half a pint of Milk. Half an ounce of castor Sugar. The rind of one Lemon. L Peel the lemon and put the rind into the milk; stir in the sugar; let it just boil, and strain it on to the cornflour, stirring all the time. Let the sauce boil for a minute to cook the cornflour, and it is ready for use. Marmalade Sauce. Ingredients. Half an ounce of Cornflour. One tablespoonful of Marmalade. Half a pint of Water. The juice and rind of one Lemon. One tablespoonful of castor Sugar. Put the cornflour into a basin, stir in the lemon-juice, put!the rind of the lemon into the water and boil; when it boils, strain it into the cornflour, stirring all the time. Put this into a sauce- pan over the fire, stir in the marmalade and sugar. When well mixed, pour it round the pudding. H 2100 Melted Butter. Ingredients. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. One and a half gills of cold Water. Melt the butter in a saucepan over the fire, and stir in the flour; then add one and a half gills of cold water, stirring it to make it smooth, until it boils and thickens. It should boil well, to cook the flour; nothing is so nasty as to taste the raw flour in sauces. Sweet Melted Butter. Ingredients. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. One and a half gills of Milk. Half an ounce of Sugar. Melt the butter and flour together in a stewpan over the fire; stir in the milk by degrees, add the sugar, and stir till it boils and thickens; let it boil a few minutes to cook the flour. Pour round the pudding and serve. This sauce can be flavoured with a few drops of vanilla if liked. Orange Syrup. Ingredients. One pint of Orange-juice. One and a half pounds of castor Sugar. Boil these together slowly and skim as long as any scum rises. When cold bottle it off and cork it securely. Two tablespoonfuls of this syrup to quarter of a pint of melted butter makes a capital sauce for puddings. A teaspoonful will flavour custards, etc.IOI Onion Sauce. Ingredients. Three Onions. Three gills of Milk. One ounce of Flour. Half an ounce of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Peel the onions, cut them in quarters and boil in a little water till quite tender, then strain them and throw away the water. Melt butter, stir the flour into it, then add the milk and the onions chopped up, but not too finely, and stir till it thickens and the flour is cooked. Season with pepper and salt to taste. Parsley and Melted Butter. Ingredients. An ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Some chopped Parsley. One and a half gills of cold Water. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and stir in the flour very smoothly; add the cold water and the parsley, and stir till it thickens. Parsley and Butter Sauce. Ingredients. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Flour. One gill of Milk. Salt. Half a pint of the liquor Veal has boiled in. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and stir in the flour; then add, slowly stirring all the time, half a pint of stock or liquor; let it boil and thicken. Add the milk, a pinch of salt, and last of all the chopped parsley.102 Piquante Sauce. Ingredients. One tablespoonful of Vinegar. One Onion. One Shallot. One dessertspoonful of Harvey, and one of Mushroom Ketchup. One small Carrot. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Stock, or the liquor Veal has boiled in. Pepper and Salt. Melt the butter in a stevvpan, cut the vegetables into small pieces, and fry them brown in the butter with the flour; then add the vinegar, and boil till reduced to a teaspoonful, add the stock, and Harvey and mushroom ketchup ; stir till it boils, then skim and strain. White Sauce. Ingredients. Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Butter. One pint of Milk. Two Bay-leaves. A little Nutmeg. Salt to taste. A'fevv drops of Lemon-juice. Mix the flour and butter together in a stewpan with a wooden spoon ; when well mixed stir in the milk, add the bay-leaves, nutmeg and salt, and stir over the fire till it boils and thickens. Be sure that the flour is well cooked; before using take out the bay-leaves. Mussels, cockles or oysters are very good to put into this sauce : the fish does not want cooking, only to get hot in the sauce, which would be improved by the addition of a little of the liquor of the fish. Add the lemon-juice last.103 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Barley Water. Ingredients. Two ounces of Pearl Barley. The rind of a Lemon. Two lumps of Loaf Sugar. Blanch the barley and put it in a jug; peel a lemon very thinly, and put it with the sugar into the jug with the barley ; then pour one pint of boiling water into it, cover it up, and let it stand till cool, then strain it. Beef Tea. No. I. Ingredients. One pound of Gravy Beef. One pint of Water. Cut the beef up very small, taking care to remove all skin and fat, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of cold water, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Put the saucepan on the fire and stir till it almost boils, then move it to the side of the fire to simmer gently for one hour; after that pour out the beef tea and let it cool, then remove the fat before using. Beef tea must not boil. Beef Tea. No. 2. Ingredients. Half-pound of Gravy Beef. Half pint of Water. Take the beef and cut it up very finely, removing all skin and fat, then put it into a stone jar with half a pint of water, put the lid on the jar and tie a piece of paper over it. Stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water for three hours, or in the oven for one hour and a half; after that time pour the beef tea into a cup. Salt according to taste.104 Beef and Sago Broth. Ingredients. Two pounds of Gravy Beet. Three ounces of Sago. Two yolks of Eggs. Two quarts of Water. Salt. Cut up the beef and stew it slowly in two quarts of water for quite three hours. Then strain it, add a teaspoonful of salt to the liquor, and three ounces of sago, let this boil gently for half an hour. Draw the saucepan off the fire; break two yolks of egg into a basin, add to them a little of the broth, stir this well and then add it to the broth, which must not boil after the eggs are in, or they will curdle. Serve with toast. Cornflour Blanc-Mange. Ingredients. Four tablespoonfuls of Cornflour. One quart of Milk. One ounce and a half of Loaf Sugar. One inch of stick Cinnamon. Put the milk, sugar and cinnamon into a saucepan and put it on the fire to boil. Put the cornflour into a basin and mix it smoothly with a little milk. When the milk in the saucepan is quite boiling, stir in the cornflour quickly and let it boil for two minutes, stirring continually. Take a basin or mould and rinse it out in cold water. Take out the cinnamon, pour the cornflour into the basin, and stand it aside to cool; when cold turn it out on to a dish. Blanc-Mange. Ingredients. One pint of Milk. ‘Half an ounce of Gelatine. One Lemon (rind). One and a half ounce of castor Sugar. Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar, lemon-rind, and gelatine. Let these ingredients stand by the fire until the milk is well flavoured and the gelatine dissolved. Rinse a mould out with cold water, and strain the milk into it. When it is quite set turn it out and serve.105 Cup of Arrowroot. Ingredients. One dessertspoonful of Arrowroot. Half a pint of Milk. Put half a pint of milk in a stewpan on the fire to boil. Put the arrowroot into a basin, add to it by degrees a little cold milk and stir it to a smooth paste. When the milk in the stew- pan is quite boiling pour it on to the mixed arrowroot, and stir well with a wooden spoon to make it smooth; serve with sugar or salt. Gruel. Ingredients. Two dessertspoonfuls of Patent Groats. One pint of Water or Milk. Put two dessertspoonfuls of patent groats into a basin, and mix to a smooth paste with a little cold milk or water; then add to it one pint of boiling milk or water, stirring well with a wooden spoon, and let it boil for ten minutes. Take care that it is not lumpy, and serve with sugar or salt according to taste. Lemonade. Ingredients. Two Lemons. Loaf Sugar. Put a kettle of water on the fire to boil. Peel, very thinly, the lemons and cut off all the pith, then cut them into thin slices and take out all the pips; put half the rind and the slices of lemon into a jug, then add loaf sugar to taste. When the water is quite boiling pour one pint into the jug, cover it over and stand it to cool, and when cold strain it into another jug.io6 Porridge. Ingredients. One teacupful of coarse Scotch Oatmeal. One pint of Water. Half a teaspoonful of Salt. Boil the water, put in the salt while the water continues boiling, then gradually sprinkle in the oatmeal with one hand and stir continually with the other. Boil for thirty minutes. Rice Jelly. Ingredients. Four ounces of Rice. Three pints of cold Water. A pinch of Salt. Two bunces of Sugar. Soak the rice for two hours in a little warm water, then add three pints of cold water, a pinch of salt and the sugar; boil it till it is reduced to one pint, strain it into a china mould rinsed out with cold water, and when cold turn it out. Savoury Custard. Ingredients. One gill of Stock. Three Eggs. Butter. Break the yolks of three eggs and the white of one into a basin, add the stock and some salt, and whisk well together, pour the mixture into a greased gallipot; cover it with a piece of buttered paper, tie it down, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour; after that time take the gallipot out and turn the custard on a plate to cool.io7 Veal Tea. Ingredients, Stock. One Carrot. One Turnip. One Onion. One and a half ounce of Pearl Barley. Seasoning. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. The stock should be from a boiled knuckle of veal. Soak the barley, then cook it in the stock for half an hour. Shred the vegetables very finely, and allow them to cook for a quarter of an hour. Just before serving put in the chopped parsley, then add the seasoning. Veal and Sago Broth. Ingredients. Two pounds of knuckle of Veal Two quarts of cold Water. Three ounces of Pearl Sago. Two yolks of Eggs. One gill of Milk. Put the sago in a basin with a little warm water to soak, while the broth is cooking. Break up the veal and put it into a stewpan with two quarts of cold water—a little salt; let it just boil up and skim it well, draw it off the fire and let it simmer gently with the lid on for four hours. Then strain it and put it back in the stewpan with the sago, and let it simmer for half an hour longer. Draw the broth off the fire and let it cool a little; beat up the two yolks of egg with the milk and stir them into the broth ; stir it over the fire again for a minute to cook the eggs, but do not let it boil, or they will curdle.io8 How to Fry. To fry is to boil in fat or oil, therefore the fat must boil, and it must cover whatever you wish to fry. When fat boils it is quite still—leaves off moving or bubbling, and a thin blue smoke or vapour rises from it. Oil takes longer to boil than fat, is nicer and more economical to fry in, as it wastes much less in use. Oil will not clarify like fat, but must be strained after use, so as to get all the sediment and pieces out of it. Fat can be kept a long time to fry in ; it should be strained after using, and it can be clarified often, provided that it is not allowed to bum; if it is burnt it is spoilt. Meat and fish should not be fried in the same fat. To Clarify Fat. Cut up any scraps of cooked or uncooked fat into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with enough cold water to thoroughly cover them. Let this boil with the lid off until all the water has evaporated or boiled away in steam, and nothing is left of the pieces of fat but dry brownish bits. You must stir it occasionally, for fear it should burn. When this has cooled a little, it must be strained through an old sieve or strainer into a basin. When quite cold, it makes a cake of pure white fat, which is used to fry in instead of lard or oil. It is also used in plain cooking in the place of butter. A good basinful of fat will last a long time for frying in, provided it is not allowed to burn; if it burns, it is spoilt, and must be thrown away. Fat should always be strained after you have used it, to get out all the little pieces of bread- crumbs, etc., which would stick to whatever was fried in it next time; it can be reclarified very often, and fresh fat added to it. If you have not enough pieces of fat left from the trimmings of your meat, it can be bought of the butcher for from fourpence to eightpence the pound. Fish and meat must not be fried in the same fat. To clarify dripping.—Pour it out of the dripping-pan into a basin with about half a pint of cold water; when it is cold, take the cake of dripping off the water, scrape all the sediment oft the bottom of the cake and wipe it dry; throw away the water, which will contain all the impurities.INDEX. PAGE Lessons in Scullery Work v-vii SOUPS. Bone Soup 2 Cabbage Soup 2 Fish Soup (Brown) .... 3 Fish Soup (White) .... 1 Fish Mulligatawny 3 Haricot Puree 4 Hotch Potch 4 Lentil Soup 5 Macaroni Soup 5 Milk Soup 6 Mulligatawny Soup .... 6 Mutton Broth 7 Pea Soup, No. 1 7 Pea Soup, No. 2 8 Penny Dinner Soup .... 12 Pot-au-Feu 8 Scotch Broth 9 Semolina Soup 9 Shin of Beef Soup .... 9 Skate Soup 10 Spring Soup Maigre . . . . 11 Vegetable Soup 11 FISH. Baked Fish 12 Boiled Fish 13 Broiled Herrings and Mustard Sauce 13 Broiled Herrings and Cabbage . 13 Broiled Mackerel 14 Broiled Weavers 14 Cake of Cold Fish .... 14 Conger Pie 15 Curried Fish 15 Dried Haddocks 16 Dried Haddock and Tomatoes . 16 Fish Pasties and Patties . . . 17 Fish Pie with Potato Crust . 17 Fish Pudding 18 Fish fried in Batter . . .18 Fish Omelet 19 VGE Fish Cakes 19 Fish and Potato Salad ... 20 | Fricassee (White) .... 20 Fricassee (Brown) .... 20 Fried Plaice 21 Grilled Fish 27 Haddock Stuffed and Baked . 21 Herring Pie 22 Herring Toast Sandwich . . 22 Kedgeree 22 Potted Fish 23 Salt Fish Pie 23 Scolloped Fish 26 Steamed Fish 24 Stewed Eels (White Sauce) . . 24 Stewed Eels (Brown Sauce) . 25 Stewed Conger 25 Very Simple Water Souche . . 26 Water Souche (another way) . 26 MEAT. A la mode Beef, No. 1 . . . 27 A la mode Beef, No. 2 . . .28 Baked Joint 28 j Boiled Cowheel 50 Boiled Joint 28 Boiled Pork 29 Boiled Pig’s Head .... 29 Boiled Rabbit 30 Brawn 29 Brazilian Stew 30 Cornish Pasties 30 Curried Rabbit 31 Giblet Pie 31 Haricot Mutton 32 Irish Stew, No. 1 . . . .32 Irish Stew, No. 2 . 33 Liver and Bacon 33 Meat Pie 41 Pickle for Meat 34 Pork Pie 34 Pork or Bacon Pasties . . 36 Poor Man’s Goose .... 42 Rabbit Pie 35 Rabbit and Pork Pudding . . 43I IO M eat—continued. Ragout of Mutton Ragout of Rabbit Roast Joint Roasting in a Stewpan . Roast Rabbit, stuffed Rough Puff Sausages Sausage Rolls ... Scotch Scollops .... Sea Pie Sheep’s Head, Boiled Sheep’s Trotters .... Steak and Kidney Pudding . Stewed Breast of Veal Stewed Brisket of Beef . Stewed Calf’s Feet . Stewed Calf’s Liver . Stewed Knuckle of Veal Stewed Ox-cheek, No. I Stewed Ox-cheek, No. 2 Stewed Ox-tail . . v Toad-in-the-Hole, No. 1 Toad-in-the-Hole, No. 2 Tripe and Onions. Tripe & la Bourgeoise Tripe and Rice .... Tripe and Tomatoes . Veal Cake COLD MEAT. Beef Fritters Cornish Cutlets Croquets of Cold Meat . Curry of Cold Meat . . . . Curry Croquets Dresden Patties Gateau of Cold Meat. Hash or Mince Patties of Cold Meat . . . . Rice Cutlets Rissoles Savoury Meat Rolls . Savoury Meat Toast . Shepherd’s Pie VEGETABLES. Boiled Potatoes Boiled Rice PAGE Cabbages, Greens, and Savoys . 59 Haricot Beans 59 Pickle for Vegetables ... 60 Potato Salad 60 Potato Scallops 60 Stewed Lentils 61 Stewed Spanish Onion . . . 61 PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. Apple Amber .... 62 Apple Charlotte, No 1 . 62 Apple Charlotte, No. 2 . 63 Apple Dumplings, Baked 63 Apple Fritters 63 Apple Jelly .... 64 Apple Pudding, Boiled . 64 Arrowroot Pudding . 6S Baroness Pudding 65 Batter Pudding . 66 Boiled Bread or Plum Pudding. 80 Bread and Butter Pudding 66 Bread Fritters 80 Bread Pudding, Baked . 66 Bread Pudding, Boiled . 67 Cambridge Pudding . 81 Curate’s Pudding. 81 Fig Pudding .... 67 French Rice Pudding 68 Friars Omelet. 68 Fruit Pie 68 Goblet Pie 69 Hominy Blanc-Mange 69 Lemon Jelly .... 70 Lemon Pudding, No. 1 . 70 Lemon Pudding, No. 2 . 7i Lemon Tartlets 7i Lemon Sponge 72 Macaroni Pudding 72 Macaroni Sweet . 72 Marmalade Pudding . 73 Milk Jelly from Cowheel 73 Norfolk Dumplings . 73 Ox-foot Jelly .... 74 Pancakes 74 Pease Pudding 75 Plum Pudding, Boiled . 75 Plum Pudding, Baked • > 76 PAGE 35 36 37 37 38 42 38 39 39 39 40 41 45 46 46 46 43 47 43 44 47 44 45 49 48 49 49 50 55 55 54 5i 56 5i 52 52 53 53 56 57 58 54 58 59111 Puddings, &c.—continued. PAGE Rice Pudding • 76 Rice Shape . 81 Roly-poly Pudding . • 76 Semolina Pudding • 77 Snowdon Pudding • 77 Spotted Dick • 7» Suet Pudding • 78 Swiss Roll • 78 Tapioca or Sago Blanc-Mange • 79 Treacle Pudding, No. i . • 79 Treacle Pudding, No. 2 . . 80 Windsor Pudding . 82 Yorkshire Pudding . . 82 EGGS, SAVOURIES, AND BREAKFAST DISHES. Curried Eggs 8l Eggs sur le Plat .... 8.8 Ham Toast 84 Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel 84 Kidneys and Potato Chips . 84 Kidneys and Tomato Sauce. 8s Macaroni Cheese .... 87 Mushrooms Grilled . 87 Mushrooms Stewed . 87 Potted Beef . 88 Savoury Rice .... • 8s Savoury Omelet .... . 86 Toast and Eggs .... . 86 To Poach an Egg . 86 Welsh Rare-bit .... . 88 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Brandy Wafers ... 89 Bread ... 89 Buns ... 90 Cornflour Cake ... 91 Dough Cake . ... 91 Gingerbread Cake ... 91 Ginger Nuts . ... 92 Lemon Jumbles . ... 92 Milk Biscuits . ■ • • 93 Milk Rolls . . . • • • 93 Oatmeal Biscuits . • • • 93 PAGE Rice Buns .... , # 94 Rock Cakes .... 94 Scones 95 Seed Cake .... 95 Shortbread .... 95 Shrewsbury Cakes 96 Sultana Cake .... 96 Unfermented Bread . 90 Wheatmeal Bread 97 White Gingerbread . 97 Yorkshire Tea-cakes 98 SAUCES. Brown Sauce .... 98 Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton. 99 Cornflour Sauce . 99 Marmalade Sauce. 99 Melted Butter IOO Melted Butter, Sweet IOO Orange Syrup , , IOO Onion Sauce .... IOI Parsley and Melted Butter IOI Parsley and Butter Sauce IOI Piquante Sauce . 102 White Sauce .... • • 102 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Barley Water .... , . 103 Beef Teas IO3 Beef and Sago Broth . IO4 Blanc-Mange .... . , 104 Cornflour Blanc-Mange . . , IO4 Cup of Arrowroot io5 Gruel 105 Lemonade .... I05 Porridge 106 Rice Jelly 106 Savoury Custard . 106 Veal Tea 107 Veal and Sago Broth • 107 How to Fry . . . . 108 How to Clarify Fat . . . . 108LONDON: PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. SOUPS. PAGE Cabbage Soup 2 Cocky Leeky Soup .... 2 Plain Green Pea Soup ... 3 Rice Soup 3 I FISH. Broiled Mackerel 4 Potted Shrimps 4 Stewed Oysters 4 MEAT DISHES. Brain Cakes 5 Curry of Cold Meat, and Boiled Rice 5> 6 Plain Boiled Calfs Head . . 6 Roast Veal Boned and Rolled . 6 Stewed Brisket of Beef, hot , . 7 Superior Steak Pudding ... 8 Veal Pie 8 SAUCES, &c. Apple Sauce 9 Bread Sauce 9 Liver and Parsley Sauce ... 9 PAGE Mint Sauce 10 Rice Sauce 10 Sage Stuffing 10 Cooked Vegetable Salad. . . II Plain Salad 11 Vegetable Marrow Stuffed . . 12 PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. Apple Cheese 13 Apples and Custard Baked . . 13 Apple Snowballs 14 Apple Vol au Vent .... 14 Arrowroot Jelly 14 Baked Custard 15 Batter and Fruit Pie . . . . 15 Brandy Wafers 15 Cottage Pudding 16 Crumpets ....... 16 Gingerbread Nuts 17 Lemon Cream 17 Muffins 18 Potato Rolls 18 Rice Pancakes 19 Rich Suet Pudding .... 19 Sago Shape 19 Stewed Apples 20 Tapioca Cream 20 B2 SOUPS. Cabbage Soup. Ingredients. Two Cabbages. Three Potatoes. One Clove of Garlic. Two ounces of Butter. Two quarts of boiling Water. A dessertspoonful of Salt. Trim the cabbages well, cut off all the green outside leaves, but do not cut the white leaves up too small. Put them in cold water with a little sglt. Peel the potatoes and put them into the cold water with the cabbages. Have a saucepan of boiling water, about two quarts; add a dessertspoonful of salt; put in the vegetables with a clove of garlic crushed. Let this all boil for thirty minutes, then mash the potatoes well with a spoon; stir in two ounces of butter; put some small squares of fried bread into a soup tureen; pour the soup into it, cover it for a few minutes, and serve. Cocky Leeky Soup. Ingredients. Three pounds Scrag of Mutton or Knuckle of Veal. One Fowl. Salt. Two ounces of Rice. Six Leeks. Boil the mutton and the fowl in three quarts of water; put in some salt and skim well; cut up three leeks into pieces about an inch long; add some pepper, and let it all boil for an hour slowly. Then put in the rest of the leeks and the rice, and boil it three quarters of an hour longer; then take out the mutton and the fowl. Serve the soup with some of the chicken cut up into neat pieces in it. Serve the mutton separately with parsley and butter sauce.3 Plain Green Pea Soup. Ingredients. One quart of Green Peas. Two quarts of boiling Water. A little Salt and Sugar. In shelling the peas, separate the young ones from the old ones, and put half a pint of the young ones on one side to be boiled separately and added to the soup when it is finished. Put the one and a half pints of peas into a saucepan with two quarts of boiling water and a little sugar; boil till the peas are tender, then strain them; now stir them into the water in which they were cooked; let them boil up for five minutes, then pass the soup through a hair sieve ; add the half pint of peas boiled separately ; stir in a little salt and sugar, and serve very hot. This soup can be made with one pint of peas and one pint of pea-shells. Rice Soup. Ingredients. Two ounces of Rice. One ounce of Butter. Half pint of Milk. Three pints of Water. Half a Carrot. Six Peppercorns. A few Celery seeds tied in Muslin. One small Onion. Salt. Slice the onion and carrot, melt the butter in a stew-pan, and draw down these vegetables in it, but do not let them brown; put three pints of water into the stew-pan with the onion, etc.; add the rice, previously well washed, also the peppercorns and celery seed, tied up in a muslin bag, and let all this boil till the rice is quite soft. Now take out the muslin bag and pass the rice and vegetables through a hair sieve ; then return it to the stew-pan ; add the milk, let it boil up, and serve. B 24 FISH. Broiled Mackerel. Clean a fine large mackerel, wipe it on a dry cloth, cut it open down the back, lay it on a nice clean gridiron over a clear slow fire; when one side is done, turn it and cook the other. Mix a little finely-chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, with half an ounce of butter; when the fish is cooked, spread this butter on it, and serve very hot. Potted Shrimps. Ingredients. Shrimps. Salt. White Pepper. A very little pounded Mace and Cloves. Clarified Butter. Pick the shrimps ; sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, and pounded mace and cloves. Press them into a pot and set them in the oven for ten minutes. When cold cover with clarified butter. Stewed Oysters. Ingredients. Two dozen Oysters. A few drops of Lemon Juice. One ounce of Butter. Half ounce of Flour. One gill of Cream or Milk. A little Salt. White Pepper. Stew the oysters in their own liquor; when they are just coming to the boil, skim them; take them up and beard them, and lay them on a dish. Strain the liquor; mix the butter and flour together in a stew-pan : add the liquor, cream, salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice, and boil for five minutes to cook the flour. Tut the oysters in this sauce to get hot through—they must on no account boil. Serve in a dish with croutons of bread round.5 MEAT DISHES. Brain Cakes. Ingredients. Calf’s Brains. One Yolk of Egg. Chopped Parsley. Nutmeg. Grated Lemon Peel. Salt. Take the brains of a calf and wash them; then cook them in water with a little salt. Beat the brains up well with the yolk of an egg, a little chopped parsley, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon peel. Fry them like small pancakes, in butter, till a golden brown. Dry Curry of Cold Meat. Ingredients. Two pounds of cold Meat. One large Onion. One Apple. Teaspoonful of Salt. Two ounces of Butter. One and a quarter pints of good Gravy. One tablespoonful of Flour. One tablespoonful each of Curry Powder, Grated Cocoanut, and Lemon Juice. A little Garlic. Slice the onion, chop up the apple and garlic, and cut the meat into small pieces. Fry all the vegetables in the butter a nice brown. Then add the flour, the curry powder and cocoanut mixed; stir well together and add the salt; pour on the gravy or stock, and cook for one hour; add the lemon juice and the meat; let it get hot through, but do not boil it. Rice must be either handed separately, beautifully boiled, or else the curry may be served in a border of rice.6 To Boil Rice. Ingredients. Four ounces of Patna Rice. One tablespoonful of Salt. Two quarts of boiling Water. Wash the rice well in several waters to free it from loose starch ; put it into plenty of boiling water with salt in it, and let it boil fast for from fifteen to twenty minutes. When the grains of rice are soft take the saucepan to the sink and fill it up with cold water to separate the grains. Drain the water thoroughly off and dry the rice in the oven, or in front of the fire covered over with a clean cloth. Serve very hot. Plain Boiled Calf's Head. Clean the head nicely and lay it in salt and water to soak; take out the tongue and brains. Boil the head until it is very tender, about three hours. Cook the tongue and brains separately. When cooked serve with the tongue placed in the middle of the head. Boiled bacon and greens should be eaten with it, and parsley and butter sauce. ^Mix the cooked brains, a little scaled and chopped sage, pepper and salt into the sauce, and serve it separately in a sauce-boat. Cold calfs head makes a very good hash, or it is very good grilled. Roast Veal Rolled. Ingredients. Breast of Veal. Three ounces of Breadcrumbs. Two ounces of chopped Suet. One ounce of chopped Parsley. A saltspoonful of mixed Herbs. A little grated Lemon Peel. A little Milk or one Egg. Pepper and Salt. Bone the veal, put the bones on to make gravy. Mix the breadcrumbs, suet, herbs, parsley, lemon-peel, pepper and salt7 together, and add enough milk or the egg to bind them; spread this forcemeat over the veal; roll it up and tie it round with fine string, and either bake it or roast it. The gravy for veal should be thickened with a little flour. Stewed Brisket of Beef. TO BE EATEN HOT. Ingredients. Six pounds of Brisket of Beef. Water to cover. Two Carrots. One Turnip. Three Onions. Celery leaves. One Leek. Salt. Six Cloves. Six Allspice. Twelve Peppercorns. Parsley, and a bunch of Herbs. Scrape the meat quite clean; put it into a stew-pan, with enough hot water to cover it, and a good spoonful of salt. Let it boil up and skim it well. When quite clean of scum, add onions, carrots, turnip, celery, leek, the parsley and herbs tied together, the cloves, allspice and peppercorns. As the vegetables are only for seasoning they may be cut up roughly. Let all this simmer for four or five hours. When quite tender take out the meat and remove the flat bones. Serve very hot with a cupful of the liquor poured round the beef and chopped parsley sprinkled on the top of it. Sauce for same. Half pint of the liquor strained. One ounce of Butter. Half ounce of Flour. One tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. One teaspoonful of made Mustard. Four Pickled Walnuts. Chopped Parsley. Melt the butter and flour together in a stew-pan ; stir in half a pint of the liquor strained, and let this boil for ten minutes, then add the mustard, ketchup, and walnuts cut up into small pieces and a little chopped parsley. Send this sauce up very hot in a sauce-boat to be handed with the brisket of beef. The rest of the liquor can be used as soup another day, but strain it before putting it away.8 Superior Steak Pudding. Ingredients. One and a half pounds of Steak. Two Kidneys. Twelve Oysters. Pepper and Salt. Suet Paste. Line a pudding-basin with very thin suet-paste. Cut up the steak into neat pieces about two inches square; cut up the kidneys, beard the oysters, fill the basin with these ingredients. Season with pepper and salt, cover the basin with suet-paste, tie in a cloth, and let it simmer gently for six hours. If preferred leave out the kidneys and add another dozen of oysters. Serve in the basin with a cloth round it. Veal Pie. Ingredients. One and a half pounds of Neck of Veal. Half pound of lean Bacon or Pork. Two hard-boiled Eggs (these may be left out). A little grated Lemon Peel. A teaspoonful of chopped Parsley, and one of Sweet Herbs. Pepper and Salt. Either Rough Puff or Flaky Paste can be used. Cut the meat and bacon up into neat square pieces; mix the parsley, herbs, lemon-peel, pepper and salt together on a plate, and dip the pieces of meat into these seasonings. Half fill the pie-dish with the veal, then a layer of bacon and one of veal; and so on till all is in the dish ; but let the last layer be of the bacon. Put a teacupful of water or veal stock into the dish; line the edge of the dish with the paste, then cover over the top, and proceed as for meat pie. It will take about two hours to bake.9 SAUCES, ETC. Apple Sauce. Ingredients. One pound of Apples. The Peel of half a Lemon. Half ounce of Butter. Two ounces of moist Sugar. One gill of Water. Peel, core, and cut up the apples; cook them with the other ingredients till tender; take out the lemon-peel, and rub the apples through a hair sieve, or beat them smooth with a wooden spoon. To be served with roast goose, duck, or pork. j Bread Sauce. Ingredients. Two ounces of Breadcrumbs without crust. Half pint of Milk. One small Onion. Four Peppercorns. < Half ounce of Butter. Put the milk into a saucepan, and when it boils add the bread- crumbs, onion and peppercorns and a little salt. Let this stand on the hob for fifteen minutes, then take out the onion and peppercorns; stir in the butter, and serve. Liver and Parsley Sauce. Ingredients. Liver of Fowl, or Rabbit, or Fish. Parsley. Salt. One ounce of Butter. Half ounce of Flour. One and a half gills of Water. Wash the liver; see that it is perfectly fresh; boil it for five minutes in a little water; rub it through a sieve with a spoonfulIO of the water it was cooked in. Boil a few parsley leaves in salt and water; drain them; chop them very finely and mix them with the liver. Cook the butter and flour together, stir in the water; let it boil ten minutes, mix in the chopped liver and parsley, and serve with boiled rabbit or fish. Mint Sauce. Ingredients. One gill of Vinegar. Three tablespoonfuls of chopped Mint. Two ounces of moist Sugar. A little Salt. Put the sugar and salt into the vinegar, and when both are thoroughly melted, stir in the mint. Rice Sauce. TO BE USED INSTEAD OF BREAD SAUCE. Ingredients. Two ounces of Rice. One pint of Milk. A small Onion. Twelve Peppercorns. A small blade of Mace. Wash the rice and put it into the milk with onion, mace and peppercorns; let it boil till quite tender; take out the spice and onion, and rub the rice through a sieve, reheat and serve. A tablespoonful of cream is an improvement. Sage Stuffing. Ingredients. Half ounce of Sage leaves, powdered. Half pound of Onions. Two ounces of Breadcrumbs. One ounce of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Boil the onions for five minutes, then chop them up; add the sage, breadcrumbs, butter, pepper and salt, mix all well together, and use for stuffing ducks, geese, and pork.Cooked Vegetable Salad. Ingredients. Spanish Onion. Beetroot. Cauliflower. Celery and French Beans. Equal quantities, all cooked. Dressing for the Salad. Two hard-boiled Eggs. A tablespoonful of Cream. Two tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. A teaspoonful of Salt, and one of Castor Sugar. A teaspoonful of made Mustard. A little Pepper. One tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. Rub the yolks of the eggs through a sieve ; mix the cream with them and then the oil; when well mixed sprinkle in the salt and sugar and stir in the mustard ; when these are smoothly mixed together stir in the vinegar by degrees. Put this dressing into the salad bowl. Take equal quantities of the above cooked vegetables and cut them into tidy pieces ; mix them lightly all together and .put them into the bowl on the top of the dressing. Garnish the top with the whites of the eggs cut into pieces, and a few little pieces of fresh lettuce leaves. Let the sauce remain at the bottom of the salad bowl, not stirring it up until it is served. Plain Salad. Ingredients. One Lettuce. Two tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of Vinegar. Half a teaspoonful of moist Sugar. Pepper and Salt. Wash the lettuce well to remove grit and dirt, shake the water out of it, and dry it in a clean cloth; never use a knife, but break the leaves into small pieces with your hands, and put12 them into the salad bowl; put the sugar and salt into a table- spoon and till it up with vinegar; stir till salt and sugar are melted, then pour over the lettuce, shake the pepper over the leaves, now add the oil, and mix all well together. A salad should not be mixed until it is required for table, as if it stands after the vinegar and oil are added the leaves get sodden, and lose the crispness which a good salad should always have. Vegetable Marrow Stuffed. Ingredients. One Marrow. Two ounces of cold Meat. One ounce of Breadcrumbs. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley and Thyme. Pepper and Salt. A little Stock or Milk. Peel the marrow, cut in half lengthways, take out the seeds; soak the bread in stock or milk, mince the meat, and mix it with the soaked bread, parsley, and thyme; add pepper and salt, and fill each half of the marrow with this mixture; tie the two halves together. The marrow can now be either steamed and served with melted butter, or baked and served with brown sauce. It will take about an hour to cook; if b^ked, mix a little flour, pepper and salt, and shake over it, and baste it occasionally with dripping or butter.13 PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. Apple Cheese. Ingredients. Two pounds of Apples. One pound of loaf Sugar. The rind and juice of a Lemon. Peel and core the apples, grate the rind of a lemon and squeeze out the juice; cut up the apples in pieces, and cook them gently with the sugar and lemon until they are quite soft, then beat them till they are quite thick and smooth. Dip a mould in cold water, pour in the apple ; when cold turn it out, and it is ready for use. Custard or cream may be eaten with it. Apples and Custard. Ingredients. Two pounds of Apples. Half a pound of loaf Sugar. For the Custard. Three Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. One ounce of Castor Sugar. A slice of Lemon Peel. Peel and core the apples; cook them with the sugar in as little water as possible. When quite cooked put them into a pie-dish and pour the custard over them uncooked, put them into the oven till the custard is quite set. Serve hot or cold, with a little grated nutmeg on the top if liked. To make the custard, beat the eggs and sugar together, then stir in the milk; a slice of thinly-cut lemon-peel should be let stand in the milk to extract the flavour.■4 Apple S nowballs. Ingredients. Half a pound of Rice. Six large Apples. Wash the rice well and boil it in plenty of water for ten minutes, strain it and dry it. Peel and core the apples; be careful not to break them; divide the rice into six heaps and cover each apple with the rice; tie each snowball loosely in a separate cloth and boil for one hour. Serve with sweet melted butter. Apple Vol au Vent. Ingredients. Puff Pastry. . Eight Apples. Pint of Custard. One gill of Claret. Four ounces of Castor Sugar. Lemon Peel, Cinnamon, and Mace. Have the vol au vent case ready baked. Peel and core the apples, taking care not to break them; cook them in a stew-pan in the wine and sugar, with a small piece of lemon-peel, a little piece of cinnamon, and a small blade of mace. Let the apples stew slowly till quite tender ; set them aside to cool. When cold place them in the vol au vent case, and pour half a pint of good custard over them. Arrowroot Jelly. Ingredients. Half a pint of Water. A wineglass of Sherry' or a little Brandy. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One ounce of Arrowroot. One tablespoonful of cold Water. Put the half pint of water, wine, and sugar on to boil, mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with cold water; when the wine andi5 water are boiling stir it in to the mixed arrowroot carefully, return the whole to the stew-pan and let it boil for three minutes, stirring well. Pour it into a mould and serve when cold. Baked Custard. Ingredients. One pint of Milk. Three Eggs. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Lemon Peel. Rough Puff or Flaky Pastry. Cut a few pieces of lemon-peel very thinly off a lemon, put them into a saucepan with the milk and let it boil; cool it, and mix the eggs and sugar together; pour the milk on to them. Line the edges of a pie-dish with pastry, pour the milk and eggs into the pie-dish, and bake in a slow oven for half an hour. Batter and Fruit Pie. Ingredients. Four ounces of Apples or other fruit. Four ounces of Flour. One Egg. Half a pint of Milk. Sugar and Salt. Mix a batter as for pancakes; cook the fruit with the sugar in a greased pie-dish until tender; pour the batter over it, and bake for about half an hour in a moderate oven. Brandy Wafers. Ingredients. Four ounces of Treacle. Four ounces of Butter. Three and a half ounces of Flour. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. A teaspoonful of Ground Ginger. A teaspoonful of Brandy. A teaspoonful of grated Lemon Rind. Melt the treacle, sugar, and butter together, then stir in the flour gradually, and the ginger, lemon-rind, and brandy; mix all these16 well together. Grease a baking-tin, and drop the mixture on to it in spoonsful about two inches apart, so as to give them plenty of room to run. Bake them in a quick oven for about a quarter of an hour. Watch them carefully till they are done, as they are liable to brown quickly. When cooked roll them up at once, or else they will break. Cottage Pudding. Ingredients. Two pounds of Potatoes. Three quarters of a pint of Milk. Two ounces of moist Sugar. Two Eggs. Three ounces of Sultanas. Peel, boil, and mash two pounds of potatoes, beat up the eggs, stir them with the sugar to the milk; pour this gradually to the potatoes and beat to a smooth batter; stir in the fruit, put into a pie-dish, and bake three quarters of an hour. Crumpets. Ingredients. One pound of best Flour. Two tablespoonfuls of Brewer’s Yeast. Half a teaspoonful of Salt. About a pint and a quarter of lukewarm Water. Time required (for rising, two hours and ten minutes), about a quarter of an hour. Put the flour in a large basin, and mix in the salt. Put the yeast in a jug with the lukewarm water, stir it up, and let it stand for ten minutes, then pour it gently on to the flour, but do not disturb the sediment at the bottom of the jug. Mix it well till it is a smooth batter about the same consistency as for Yorkshire pudding, cover the basin with a cloth, and stand it aside in a warm place or in some warm water, to rise for two hours. Place the rings, made for the purpose, on to the hot iron or stove for baking, and pour the batter gently into the rings (without disturbing the bottom of the batter) and bake them. They musti7 be watched, and when the top of the batter is covered with small bladders turn the rings carefully to the other side with a palette knife, when they will soon be done. They will only take about five minutes to bake. For serving they should be toasted and buttered. N.B.—Crumpets must be baked on a hot plate, not in the oven, and it is necessary to bake them in rings, or the batter will not keep in shape. German yeast (about one ounce) might be used, but brewers’ yeast is better. They will bake well in a small frying-pan. Gingerbread Nuts. Ingredients. One pound of Flour. Half a pound of moist Sugar. Half a pound of Treacle. Quarter of a pound of candied Orange Peel. One ounce of ground Ginger. Half an ounce of ground Caraway Seeds. Half a pound of Butter. Cut the orange-peel up small, rub in the butter, and mix all the above ingredients well together; set it by for half an hour. Then roll it out in pieces about the size of a walnut, lay these on a baking sheet, press them flat with your hand, and bake in a slow oven for ten minutes. Lemon Cream. Ingredients. Three Lemons. Half a pound of Loaf Sugar. Three Eggs. Quarter of an ounce of leaf Gelatine. Put the rind of one lemon cut very thin into a jug, add the sugar and pour half a pint of boiling water on it; let it stand for one hour, strain it, melt the gelatine in a little water and add it to the sugar. Whip up the eggs’ whites and yolks together, add the juice of the three lemons, mix well, and add to the sugar and gelatine. Pour all this into a jug, stand it in a sauce- ci8 pan of water over the fire, and stir until it thickens; this will take from twenty to thirty minutes. When it has thickened, pour it into a mould and set it to cool. When set, it must be turned out, and is ready for use. Muffins. Ingredients. Two pounds of best Flour. One pint of Milk. One gill of Yeast or one ounce of French Yeast. Two Eggs. Two ounces of Butter. Salt. Make the milk quite warm, stir in two eggs, two ounces of butter, one gill of yeast, and a little salt; mix these all well together, strain it and stir it in gradually to the flour. Beat it thoroughly, and set the dough to rise for three or four hours. Then work the dough up again, break it into small pieces, roll them up quite round, cover them for a quarter of an hour, and bake them on the top of the stove; turn them when done on one side. Muffins will take ten to fifteen minutes to bake. Potato Rolls. Ing}-edients. One pound of Potatoes. One pound and a half of Flour. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce of Yeast and Salt. One pint of Milk and Water. Boil the potatoes, mix the butter into them, and pass them through a sieve, using a little of the milk and water to help them through. Make the rest of the milk and water quite warm, and melt the yeast in it; stir this to the potatoes, then pour the whole gradually to the flour, adding the salt. Knead it well, and let it rise before the fire for one hour. Work the dough well, shape19 it into rolls, and bake about half an hour in a moderate oven, not quite as hot as for bread. These rolls are very nice toasted and buttered. Rice Pancakes. Ingredients. Two ounces of Ground Rice. Two ounces of Flour. Half a pint of Milk. Three Eggs. Three ounces of Butter. Boil the rice in a little water till it is a jelly; stir the milk into the flour, be careful to have no lumps; when the rice is cold stir the flour and milk into it, also the eggs lightly whipped and the butter just warmed. Let this batter stand a little while, and fry as pancakes. Rich Suet Pudding. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Suet. Two Eggs. Three ounces of Flour. Half a pint of Milk. A little grated Ginger. Pinch of Salt. Mince the suet as finely as possible, and mix it thoroughly with the flour; beat up the eggs, mix them with the milk, stir in the suet and flour, tie it loosely in a cloth, and boil one hour and a quarter. Sago Shape. Ingredients. Five ounces of Sago. Two ounces of Castor Sugar. Three good tablespoonfuls of Raspberry Jam. Pint and a half of Water. Put the sago into cold water to soak for four hours; strain it, and boil it in one and a half pints of water with the sugar for G 220 twenty minutes; when cooked stir in the jam, set it in a mould, turn out when cold, and serve with cream or custard round it. Stewed Apples. Ingredients. Six Apples. One pint of Water. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Two or three pieces of Lemon'Peel. One teaspoonful of Cochineal. Boil the water and sugar to a syrup. Take six apples of about the same size, peel them, and core them with a cutter, taking care not to split them. Put them into a casserole with the syrup, lemon-peel and cochineal; let them cook gently for eight hours— you must be very careful not to let them boil. Send them to table cold in a glass or silver dish. The apples should be whole and the syrup clear. The lemon-peel must be taken out before serving. Tapioca Cream. Ingredients. Two ounces of Tapioca. Two ounces of Castor Sugar. Two Eggs. One pint of Milk. Grated Lemon Peel. Soak the tapioca in the cold milk for six hours; stir in the sugar and boil for twenty minutes; break the eggs, separate the whites from the yolks ; beat the yolks lightly together, stir in the lemon-peel, and when the tapioca is a little cool stir them well into it. Pour this mixture into a glass dish ; whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, spread them on the top of the tapioca, and serve cold. Either rice or sago can be used instead of tapioca.RULES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF Children’s Classes BY DEMONSTRATION AND PRACTICE. BY MRS. CHARLES CLARKE. NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL OF COOKERY, BUCKINGHAM PALACE ROAD, S.W. 1896.LONDON: PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.Demonstration Lessons. Arrange the class so that all may see and be seen; near-sighted, deaf, and short girls to the front. Have all utensils and in- gredients on the table or close at hand, but keep a clear space immediately in front of your work, so that the- class can distinctly see all operations. Give prominence to the practical rather' than the theoretical part of the lesson. A child will learn more from seeing a poor speaker cook well than from seeing a good speaker cook badly. One of the most important points in demonstration is to avoid confusing the pupils by repeatedly doing a little towards one dish, then a little towards another, and mixing the verbal, instructions in the same way. An unskilful teacher will often teach nothing, and do actual harm to the minds of her pupils by this lack of system. Plan carefully, so that each dish is prepared in definite stages, and explained as clearly. If possible, never stop when dictating a recipe,' but give ingredients and method straight through; in any case do not begin to dictate a second recipe before the first is finished. When teaching dishes which must be dealt with alternately, write the recipes on the blackboard before the class meets, and refer to the written recipe as each part is reached, questioning so carefully at the end of the lesson that no confusion is possible. Owing to the difficulty of being at the same time clear, quick, and interesting, a demonstration lesson needs exceedingly care- ful arrangement and preparation. Search for facts and hints bearing directly upon the practical work. There is so much of variety and interest in cookery, that want of brightness and originality in demonstrating is inexcusable, besides being fatal to success. Very few dishes (never more than three) should be attempted at each lesson, or true teaching and discipline will be sacrificed.4 Call and mark the register, and insist upon clear and polite responses. The title of the lesson should be on the black- board. Write the recipe of the first lesson on the blackboard, and dictate this slowly to the class, letting them write the in- gredients and method, from time to time as convenient, in their note-books. It is often best to let the class watch the teacher till the dishes are prepared, and then write the recipes while the food is cooking. In no case should the writing prevent the pupils from seeing the whole process. Wash your hands, and draw the children’s attention to this, then weigh out ingredients. If the class has had several lessons, question how to manage if no scales are at hand, and show measurements in spoons, etc. (if the first lesson, show this). Put all the ingredients upon plates, and prepare them, being scrupulously clean and tidy in the work. Show the food in basins and saucepans at all important stages, ask questions, and speak so as to emphasize all the various processes, refer to past lessons, and contrast mode of preparation. After finishing each dish, carefully wipe down both table and board before beginning anything else. By setting the example make the class clearly understand that, when practising, they must be clean and tidy also. When all the dishes are prepared, allow the children to change their positions, and relax their attention for about five minutes (do not allow any noise), then close their note-books. Clean the blackboard, and when time permits, question the recipe from the class, writing each ingredient (with price) on the blackboard as it is named. Let the class add up the cost, and write this, showing how to choose the material. Question the mode of work, and write this also. At a first lesson the teacher should demonstrate the washing up and tidy putting away of all the things used during the lesson, instead of a blackboard lesson, or in addition to a shorter scheme. If time permit, write the food value of the dishes cooked (or one of them) very briefly and simply on the blackboard, and allow the children to copy it. The blackboard scheme should be a summary of the most important parts of the lesson, and should always have a direct bearing upon the practical work in a lesson to young children. In questioning, summon the careless and back-5 ward children to answer most frequently, but avoid any appearance of unkindness or partiality. Draw from the class the most im- portant practical points of the lesson. The children will remember better what they tell you than what you tell them. Dish up, and dismiss the class in an orderly manner, two by two. Those who wish to buy any of the food cooked may remain behind—the others pass out quietly. Practice Class. The practice lesson follows a demonstration as soon as possible, and should be upon the same dishes, recipes for which will be in the children’s books. The best way to teach a practice class of eighteen pupils is to arrange four tables (8 ft. by 2 ft. 6 in. each) in an open square, six girls to work on the outside of three tables only, and the teacher to be inside the square formed by the tables. The fourth table is required as a dresser to hold materials and utensils. By this arrangement the pupils and the teacher always face each other. See that the children’s hands are washed and their hair tied back before they take their places. The children should be set to work in pairs, and taught to weigh out their own materials. The teacher should move around the class, never staying for long with one set of girls. She should see that the work is well and steadily done. Let the recipes for the lesson on the board be well written, expressed in good English, and correctly spelt.6 The teacher must be very, vigilant during the practical work. She must spur on slow pupils, find extra work for the quick girls, and help judiciously if necessary, so that all have finished at the same time, and that no food is spoilt. When all the dishes are prepared let the washing-up be done, each two girls washing-up and putting away all they have used, and then scrubbing their table. When all is tidy, briefly question on important points to be remembered, and write them on the blackboard. Then have all the dishes placed tidily on the table, and if anything has been made which takes long to cook, it should now be dished. Let those who do not want to buy pass out quietly, while those who do remain behind. Be punctual in beginning and ending the lesson. Let the children prepare and cook the dishes themselves, and show them that they are responsible. If a child cannot work independently in class, she will be unable to help at home. Choose dishes that can be begun and finished in the lesson. Insist upon perfect order, cleanliness, and quietness. Allow no child to leave her place without permission. Constant occupation for the whole class is a great means towards discipline. Be careful that your pupils stand in good positions : common faults are to cross the feet, and to stand with one shoulder higher than the other : this is important both for health and discipline. No waste of time or unnecessary talking should be allowed. Pupils should raise the hand if they wish to speak to the teacher; be on the alert to see the hands so that the pupils may not be tempted to disobey. If possible, learn the names of the pupils before you take the class. Know each by name, and be careful to address her by it. This is a very important point with regard to discipline and influence. Set a good example to the class by dressing in clean, neat, and plain clothes, and wearing no bracelets or other unnecessary ornaments.7 List of Utensils FOR A CLASS OF 18 CHILDREN TO PRACTICE. Ironmongery. 9 Iron Saucepans—2 of i pint, 3 of 1 quart, 3 of 2 quarts, 1 of 3 quarts. 1 Iron Stewpan for frying. 1 Fish Kettle (small). 6 Tin Measures, 1 pt., 3 of ^ pt., 2 of } pt. 6 Rolling Pins. 2 Small Tin Slices. 2 Pepper Boxes. 2 Small Galvanized Iron Tubs. 1 Water Can. 3 Omelet Pans 2 Pastry Brushes. 2 Flour Dredgers. 3 Strainers — 1 pointed, 2 flat (fine and coarse). 8 Small Pastry Boards. 1 Frying Pan. 4 Baking Sheets. One.Stove with good oven, and 1 Galvanized Iron Pail. 3 Bread Tins, 4 in. by 5! in. 3|- in. in depth. Scales and Weights, 1 lb. to f oz Meat Tins. 9 Wooden Spoons. 3 Forks. 3 Yorkshix-e Tins. 8 Iron Spoons. 3 Small Cake Tins. 18 Patty Pans. 1 Collander. 2 Wire Sieves. 18 Cooks’ Knives. 1 Grater. 1 Sugar Dredge. 2 Trussing Needles. 3 Skewers. 1 Kettle. 1 Gridiron. a gas hot-plate, or two Stoves. China. 6 Small Meat Dishes. 6 Pudding Basins, \ pint. 6 Pudding Basins, i pint. 12 Mixing Basins. 4 Jugs, from 1 quart to 1 pint. 6 Pie Dishes, 4 in. by 6 in. 12 Meat Plates. 6 Pudding Cloths. 12 Kitchen Cloths. 6 Dish Cloths. Linen. 1 House Flannel. 3 Scrubbing Brushes. 1 Pot Brush.8 Materials for First Lesson FOR 18 PUPILS. 3 lbs. of Topside or of Neck of Mutton. 6 lbs. of Fat for clarifying, i quartern of Flour. 4 Eggs. A bar of Salt. 2j pints of Milk. 2 ozs. of Pepper. id. of Soap, Soda, Sand, Baking-Powder, String, and a id. Kitchen Paper. Average cost of materials 7.\d. to 3d. a head per lesson. School Children’s Programme. x. Rules and Examples of Roasting and Baking Joints and making Gravy, Yorkshire Pudding, Boiled and Baked Potatoes, Clarifying Fat. 2. Rules for boiling Fresh Meat and Salt Meat, Boiled Beef, Carrots, Turnips, Suet Dumplings, Apple Dumplings. 3. Mutton Broth, Irish Stew, Rock Cakes, Gruel. 4. Bread (two kinds), Boiled Fish, Egg Sauce, Macaroni Cheese. 5. Milk Soup, Fried Fish, Broiled Steak, Fruit Tart, Milk Pudding. 6. Liver and Bacon, Vegetables in season, Fruit Pudding, Scones, Lemonade. 7. Cornish Pasties, Treacle Pudding, Gingerbread Cake, various ways of cooking Eggs. 8. Tripe and Onions, Rissoles, Baked Plum Pudding, Arrowroot. 9. Lentil Soup, Fish Stuffed and Baked, Sea Pie, Pancakes. 10. Beef Tea, Meat Pie, Shepherd’s Pie, Rice Buns, Soaked Bread Pudding. N.B.—The object of these lessons is to give thorough teaching in a few dishes, exemplifying the most important principles of cookery. I