■2i CONDITIONS INTERFERING WITH REPAIR. rigors or vascular disturbances of the skin, is not uncommon as a result of direct damage to the central heat-regulating mechanism (Fig. 7). It is almost needless to add that an elevation of temperature in a surgical patient is not always due to his surgical condition. Constipa- tion, influenza, tonsillitis, injurious pressure by splints, the development of a bed sore, and many other complications may furnish an explanation. Aseptic Fever.—An elevation of temperature, which is unassociated with the presence of inflammation or its causal bacteria, is frequently observed after surgical operations which have been attended with con- siderable shock and loss of blood, as well as after injuries attended with extravasation of blood into the tissues—for example, fractures. After a slight initial fall the temperature begins to rise, and in the course of from twelve to sixteen hours reaches 100° or 101° F. It soon declines again, and in from twenty-four to thirty-six hours has regained the normal. This rise is not associated with any of the other signs or symptoms of inflammation, and has been called aseptic fever, being attributed to the absorption into the circulation of certain of the products of disorganised blood or other disintegrated tissue. Subnormal Temperature {Algidity).—The general temperature of the body may fall below the normal from various causes. In severe railway or machinery accidents, for example, or in perforating wounds or diseases of the abdominal viscera, or, again, during the passage of biliary or urinary calculi, profound and dangerous lowering of the temperature may occur. The same result may follow a sudden and copious loss of blood, profuse diarrhoea, or severe vomiting ; and it is a characteristic symptom in patients who are slowly starved, as, for example, in cases of stricture of the oesophagus. In most of these conditions, however, if death does not rapidly ensue, the temperature begins to rise and becomes elevated. In some cases of extreme saprsemia or septicaemia also the tempera- ture falls instead of rising, and this indicates a very grave prognosis. In cases of cerebral abscess and in some other conditions causing pressure on the brain the temperature remains persistently subnormal.