408 INJURIES OF BONES. that this callus is very slowly consolidated. Certain nerve trunks, such as the musculo-spiral in the middle of the upper arm, or the ulnar at the elbow-joint, may become included in or pressed upon by callus, and so have their functions inter- fered with. Such conditions often call for operative interference. Badly United Fracture— Vicious Union.—Bony union with marked displacement of the fragments is most common in fractures which have not been surgically treated—as, for example, those occurring in sailors at sea; or where the comminution was so great that accurate apposition was rendered impossible. It may also result from imperfect reduction, or because the apparatus employed permitted of secondary displacement. Restlessness on the part of the patient from intractability, delirium tremens, or mania, is the cause of vicious union in some cases. Whether or not any attempt should be made to improve matters depends largely on the degree of deformity and the amount of interference with function. While the fracture is still recent, the bone may be bent into position or rebroken under an amesthetic, and set accurately. When the callus is firmly consolidated, a strong mechanical contrivance, known as an osteoclast, may be employed to re- break it, but in the majority of cases an osteotomy with chisel and mallet gives results which are more certain and satisfactory. In the milder cases, the bone may be partially divided with an osteotome, then broken across and straightened, as in Macewen’s operation for knock-knee; while in those with more marked bending or angling, a wedge may be taken from the convexity, as in the operation for bow-leg. To retain the fragments in position, splints and extension may be employed; or if these measures are insufficient, pegs, screws, bone ferrules, or other direct means may be used. Defective union may manifest itself in one of three ways : by being delayed ; by failing to take place ; or by the formation of a false joint between the fragments. Such errors in repair may be due to constitutional or to local causes. The most potent constitutional cause is general debility. Rickets, scurvy, tuberculosis, and acute infectious diseases also play an important role in this connection. The influence of syphilis, except in its gummatous forms, in interfering with the union of fractures is doubtful. It is commonly stated that fractures in the aged do not unite as quickly or as certainly as in younger subjects. The influence of old age, however, as a factor in preventing union has been over-estimated; as a