ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. 5G1 In the lower end of the femur it may penetrate the knee-joint, or perforate the popliteal artery. If the sinus persists for many years, it may become the seat of epithelioma. The deformities resulting from acute osteomyelitis are more marked the earlier in life the attack occurs. Shortening is not uncommon from interference or arrest of growth at the epi- physial junction. The loss in length corresponds to the extent of destruction of the ossifying tissues, and to the functional value of the epiphysial junction concerned. Exaggerated growth in the length of a bone is very rare, but it has been observed in the bones of the leg. Where there are two parallel bones—as in the leg, for example—the growth of one bone may be impaired or arrested, and the other continuing to grow, becomes dis- proportionately long. Less frequently the growth of the dis- eased bone may be exaggerated, and it becomes the longer of the two. In either case, the bone which is abnormally long becomes curved. An obliquity of the bone may result where one half of the epiphysial cartilage is destroyed, and the other half continues to form bone, and this gives rise to such deformities as genu valgum, cubitus valgus, and club-hand. There is sometimes bending of a single bone, such as the femur or humerus, from the yielding character of the new case, and this is associated with evident deformity, consisting in shortening and alteration of the axis of the limb. Deformity may also result from vicious union of a patho- logical fracture, permanent displacement of an epiphysis, con- tracture, ankylosis, or dislocation of the adjacent joint. Differential Diagnosis.—The acute stage of osteomyelitis is to be diagnosed from erysipelas, cellulitis, and other inflamma- tions of the overlying soft parts. Errors are most likely to occur in the case of superficial bones, such as the tibia, clavicle, or ulna. Tenderness localised to the site of the epiphysial junction is a valuable diagnostic sign of osteomyelitis. Ery- thema nodosum also has been mistaken for osteomyelitis of the tibia. When there is early and pronounced general intoxication, the severe forms of osteomyelitis are most likely to be confused with certain fevers, such as scarlet fever. In all febribe con- ditions in children and in young adults, the ossifying junctions of the long bones should be examined for areas of pain and tenderness. Acute osteomyelitis has many features in common with acute articular rheumatism, and some authorities believe them to be different forms of the same disease (Kocher, Sahli) The VOL. I—36