CAUSES OF ULCERS.- 71 feeble granulations and portions of sloughy tissue adherent to it. Barns and Scalds act in a similar way. Exposure to the Rontgen rays has been followed by a severe form of sloughing ulceration. The Pressure of improperly-padded splints or other appliances may so far interfere with the local circulation of the part pressed upon that an ulcer is formed. This is most liable to occur in patients who suffer from some nerve lesion—such, for example, as infantile paralysis, or injury (of the spinal cord or nerve-trunks. Splint- pressure sores are situated over bony prominences, such as the malleoli, the con- dyles of the femur or humerus, the head of the fibula, the dorsum of the foot, or the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. On removing the splint the skin of the part pressed upon is found to be of a red or pink colour, with a pale grey patch in the centre, which eventually sloughs and leaves an ulcer. Similar ulcers are occasionally produced artificially by malingerers and hysterical subjects. Pressure also plays a part in the production of bed-sores. Ulcers due to Imperfect Cir- culation.—Imperfect circulatioi is an important causal factor ii ulceration, especially when it L the venous return which is de- fective. This is best illustrated in the so-called leg ulcer, which occurs almost invariably on the front and inner aspects of the lower third of the leg. At this point the anastomosis between the superficial and deep veins of the leg is less free than elsewhere, so that the extra stress thrown upon the surface veins interferes with the nutrition of the skin (Hilton). The importance of this factor in the causation of such ulcers is evidenced by the fact that all methods of treatment are unavailing unless the patient be confined to bed and the limb elevated. In a considerable number of cases, but by no means in all, this form of ulcer is associated with the presence of varicose veins, and in such cases it is spoken [Fig. 12.—Chronic Ulcer of Leg as- sociated with Varicose Veins.