490 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. subjects, by bursting asunder the epiphysial junction of the constituent bones. When the femoral head penetrates into the pelvis the condition simulates a fracture of the neck of the femur, but the trochanteric region is more depressed, and the displaced head may be recognised on rectal or vaginal examina- tion. The limb is shortened, the movements of the joint much restricted and painful, but crepitus is not always to be detected. When the head penetrates the acetabulum, reduction should be attempted by traction and manipulation. After reduction the limb is fixed in a long splint with extension as for fracture of the neck of the femur. Reduction is often very difficult, and sometimes impossible. Fractures of Individual Bones of the Pelvis.—I Hum.—The expanded portion of the iliac bone is often broken by direct violence, the detached fragments varying greatly in size and position. In young persons the anterior superior spine has been torn off and displaced downwards by powerful contraction of the sartorius muscle; and the anterior inferior spine by strong traction on the A-shaped ligament. The whole or part of the crest may be separated by similar forms of violence. When the fracture implicates the ala of the bone it usually starts at the triangular prominence near the middle of the crest, and runs backwards or forwards, passing for a variable distance into the iliac fossa. The displaced fragment may sometimes be palpated and made to move when the muscles attached to it are relaxed by bending the body forward and towards the affected side and hexing the thighs. Pain and crepitus may be elicited at the same time. These fractures are treated by applying a firm binder, and by placing the patient in such a position as will relax the muscles attached to the displaced fragment—in the case of the iliac spines by Hexing the thigh upon the pelvis, and in the case of the crest or ala by raising the shoulders. Union takes place in three or four weeks. Fracture of the ischium alone is very rare. It results from a fall on the buttocks, the entire bone or only the tuberosity being broken. There is little or no displacement, and the diagnosis is made by external manipulation and examination through the rectum or vagina. In addition to the fracture of the floor of the acetabulum already referred to, it is necessary to mention a fracture of the upper and back part of the rim of that cavity which may accompany dorsal dislocation of the hip. Its clinical importance