216 INJURIES. and Shrapnel shell, the cavity of which contains several hundred large round bullets, which are dispersed by the bursting of the shell, which is timed to take place from 50 to 100 yards in front of the enemy. The destructive effect is produced by the frag- ments into which the shell bursts, together with, in the case of Shrapnel, the shower of bullets thus set free. Wounds inflicted by shell-fragments and Shrapnel bullets tend to be extensive in area, but they do not penetrate deeply, and they show great contusion, laceration, and destruction of the tissues implicated. On account of their comparatively low velocity the missiles frequently lodge in the tissues. Shell wounds are attended with a considerable degree of shock. On account of the wide area of contusion which surrounds the actual wound produced by shell-fragments, amputation, when called for, should be performed some distance above the torn tissues, and the prognosis in all cases should be guarded, as there is considerable risk of sloughing of the Haps. Unlike the wounds produced by small-bore bullets, those resulting from shell- fragments comparatively seldom run an aseptic course. Wounds produced by dynamite explosions, the bursting of boilers, and the breaking of machinery have the same general characters as shell wounds. Fragments of stone, coal, or metal may lodge in the tissues, and if infected cause septic complications. All such injuries are to be treated on the general principles governing contused and lacerated wounds. Bukns and Scalds. A burn results from the application of dry heat to the tissues of the body; and a scald from the application of moist heat. This distinction, however, has no clinical importance. Burns are most frequently produced by flames—as, for example, when a child’s clothes catch fire; by gas, paraffin, or gunpowder explosions ; or by contact with molten metal or hot solids. Electricity and exposure to Rontgen rays also produce similar lesions. Scalding is usually due to contact with boiling fluids, or to the escape of steam in boiler explosions. In young and debilitated subjects hot poultices may produce injuries of this kind. It is an interesting fact that in old people with enfeebled circulation mere exposure before a strong fire may produce severe degrees of burning, the clothes covering the part being- uninjured. This usually occurs about the feet, legs, or kneeSj