250 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. in the air for a few minutes, and then applying a firm elastic bandage over a layer of cotton wool. Introduction of Fluids into the Circulation.—The most valu- able measure for maintaining the circulation, however, is the injection of from one to three pints of ordinary physiological salt solution (a teaspoonful of common salt to a pint of water) into a vein. The solution is sterilised by boiling, and cooled to a temperature of about 100° F. It is best introduced into the median basilic (or other superficial) vein, by means of a small glass or metal nozzle to which is attached three or four feet of rubber tubing with a glass funnel at the end of it. All air is expelled from the apparatus by filling it with fluid before con- necting it with the vein. The fluid is allowed to flow slowly into the vein — from twenty to thirty minutes being occupied in the process-—the pressure being graduated by raising or lowering the funnel. The tube must constantly be kept filled with fluid to avoid the risk of introducing air into the circulation. When for any reason it is inexpedient to inject the fluid directly into a vein, equally satisfactory, although less rapidly attained results follow its introduction into the cellular tissue— for example, under the mamma, into the axilla, or under the skin of the back—or into the peritoneal cavity. Repeated injections of one or two pints of saline solution into the rectum also yield satisfactory results. If the patient can retain fluids taken by the mouth—such as hot coffee, barley water, or soda water—these should be freely given, unless the injury necessitates operative treatment under an anaesthetic. The injection of blood obtained from a healthy individual is sometimes employed in the treatment of pernicious anaemia and other diseases. As it flows from the vein of the donor, the blood is caught in a warm glass dish, and is kept from coagulat- ing by having added to it a five per cent, solution of phosphate of soda (two ounces of the solution to every six ounces of blood). The mixture is then slowly injected into one of the patient’s veins, means being taken to keep it at the body temperature. In addition to the fact that it has no advantage over saline injections, the risk of introducing blood-clots and septic organ- isms, the more elaborate technique, and the frequent difficulty of obtaining a suitable donor of blood, militate against the em- ployment of this method in the treatment of haemorrhage. The direct transfusion of blood from one person to another has been almost entirely superseded by the above methods. The free administration of fluids by the mouth and a liberal