DISEASES OF JOINTS. 632 an arthralgia—corresponding to the bone pains—affecting the shoulder, knee, wrist, or ankle. The joint becomes sensitive and painful, the pain being worst at night. In other cases it assumes the form of a serous synovitis— sometimes called syphilitic rheumatism, from its resemblance to poly-articular rheumatism. The joint becomes swollen, hot, and painful, and there may be a certain amount of fever. A chronic effusion or hydrops is met with almost exclusively in the knee; it is frequently bilateral, and is very insidious in its onset and progress, the patient usually being able to go about. Both the synovitis and the hydrops may closely resemble the correspond- ing lesions resulting from gonorrhoea. They rapidly and com- pletely disappear, however, under anti-syphilitic treatment. The later or tertiary lesions of joints are more persistent and destructive. They result from the formation of guminata, either in the deeper layers of the synovial membrane, or in the adjacent bone or periosteum. In the majority of cases severe joint symptoms do not develop, unless as a result of breaking down of the gummatous tissue and the addition of septic infection. Peri-synovial and peri-bursal guminata are most often met with in relation to the knee-joint of adults of middle age, especially females. The guminata are usually multiple; they develop very slowly, and may be unattended with symptoms; they are rarely sensitive or painful. The patient may not apply for advice until the gumma has broken down and given rise to a tertiary ulcer. The simultaneous presence of indolent swellings, ulcers, and depressed scars over the knee-joint is very characteristic of syphilis. When the gummata do not break down, the resemblance to white swelling may be considerable. Attention should be directed to the nodular, uneven, irregular character of the gummatous affection. Sometimes the skin is red and tender over a gumma, without the decided liquefaction and fluctuation which are associated with reddening of the skin in a tuberculous lesion. Recovery may be attended with stiffness and contracture deformity. Gummata in the periosteum or marrow of the adjacent bones may result in a form of joint disease known as syphilitic osteo- arthritis. There is a gradual enlargement of one or other of the bones, attended with pains, which are worst at night. At this stage the diagnosis from sarcoma may be difficult or impossible. The gummatous disease may extend to the synovial membrane and be attended with effusion into the joint, or it may erupt on the periosteal surface and invade the skin, forming one or more sinuses. The further progress in untreated cases