REPAIR IN INDIVIDUAL TISSUES. 5 granulation tissue is gradually replaced by young cicatricial tissue, and the surface is covered by the ingrowth of epithelium from the edges of the skin. This modification of the reparative process can be well studied clinically in a wound which, at the time of the operation, has been packed with gauze. When the plug is introduced the walls of the cavity consist of raw tissue with numerous oozing blood-vessels. On removing the stuffing on the fifth or sixth day, it is found that the surface is covered with minute, red, papillary projections (granulations), and that already the cavity has become smaller, having been filled in from below by these velvet-like growths. At the edges, too, the epithelium has proliferated and is covering over the newly formed tissue. On subsequently examining the wound at intervals of a few days, it is found that the granulation tissue gradually increases in amount till the gap is completely filled up, and that coincidently the epithelium spreads in and covers over its surface. In course of time the epithelium thickens, and as the granulation tissue is slowly replaced by young cicatricial tissue, which has a peculiar tendency to contract, and so to obliterate the blood-vessels in it, the scar which is left becomes smooth, pale, and depressed. This method of healing is sometimes spoken of as “ healing by granulation ”—although, as we have seen, it is by granulation that all repair takes place. Healing by Union of two Granulating Surfaces.—In widely- gaping wounds closure is sometimes obtained by bringing the two surfaces into apposition after each has become covered with healthy granulations. The serum effused on the surfaces causes them to adhere, capillary loops pass from one to the other, and their final fusion takes place by the further development of granulation and cicatricial tissue. Repair in Individual Tissues. Having studied the process of repair in general, it will obviate unnecessary repetition later if the modifications of that process as seen in the regeneration of certain of the individual tissues be now considered. Nature’s efforts are always directed towards effecting a complete and perfect restitution to the normal, but her success varies with the tissue involved and the amount of damage which it has sustained. Any given tissue can only be replaced from tissue of a similar kind ; but while simple structures such as skin, cartilage, bone, periosteum or tendon, have a high power of regeneration, those of a more complex organisation, such as secreting glands, muscle, and the