TUBERCULOUS DTSEASE OF GLANDS. 307 differentiated from that due to disease in the cervical spine, as well as from congenital and other cysts in the neck. Prognosis.—Next to lupus, glandular disease is of all tuber- culous lesions the least dangerous to life. Nevertheless, a large proportion of those who suffer from it in childhood or youth afterwards suffer from tuberculous disease in bones and joints and in internal organs, especially the lungs. So far as the disease in the glands is concerned, the prognosis is materially influenced by the social circumstances of the patient and by the treatment adopted. Treatment.—The morbid conditions vary so widely in different cases that no one lihe of treatment can be expected to suffice in all. Every case must be considered and treated on its own merits. The extent of the disease, its duration and progress, the previous treatment and its results, and the general health and surroundings of the patient must all be taken into account. When seen in the early stages, before there are any signs of liquefaction in the gland, the condition is treated by removing any peripheral irritation in the mouth or throat, and improving the general health by fresh air, good food, and cod-liver oil. Arsenic is useful in diminishing the peri-adenitis. External applications such as iodine or mercurial ointment are of doubtful value. A wire or felt splint may be employed to restrain the movements of the head and neck, but in most cases it is sufficient to apply cotton wool and a bandage. When seen at a later stage, when, in spite of the above treat- ment, the glandular enlargement persists, and especially if it is on the increase, and there is involvement of fresh glands, their removal by operation should be recommended. When there are signs of liquefaction in the gland, or of a cold l abscess in the tissues around, operative interference should be had recourse to without delay, in order to hasten the reparative I process and to diminish the amount of disfigurement. The operative treatment varies with the condition of the glands. A mass of enlarged glands is excised after the same method as in the removal of an innocent tumour ; if liquefaction has taken place, the condition is dealt with like a cold abscess. I Where there is a combination of enlarged glands and abscesses, the latter are dealt with first, and the glands are excised either at the same operation or after an interval. Where there are sinuses these are excised or scraped, and all diseased skin is cut away, in addition to getting rid of the disease in the glands. The excision of tubercidous glands is often an extensive and difficult operation, because of the number and deep situation of