DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. 672 extended and abducted. In a patient whose occupation entails the sitting posture it may not be advisable to correct flexion. If adduction and inversion are the prominent features the choice lies between a transverse osteotomy below the lesser trochanter (Gant’s operation), an oblique osteotomy through the great trochanter (from above downwards and inwards), or a resection of the joint according to the special features of the case. The adductor muscles, fascia lata, and other contracted soft parts are divided by subcutaneous or open tenotomy. The limb is then forcibly abducted and extended, and maintained in this position by extension with the weight and pulley, and by the double long splint already described. In cases where the deformity is bilateral special efforts should be made to obtain a movable joint, at least on one side. Pyogenic Diseases.—This group includes a number of con- ditions resulting from infection of the joint with the common pyogenic organisms, or with the gonococcus, or typhoid bacillus. While the organisms usually gain access to the tissues of the joint through the blood-stream, a direct infection is occasionally observed from suppuration in the femoral lymphatic glands or in the bursa under the ilio-psoas. The pyogenic diseases are chiefly met with in childhood and youth. The clinical features vary with the gravity of the infection ; they are sometimes much less striking than might be expected, and are remarkably latent when the hip affection occurs as a complication of some general illness such as scarlet fever. The hip affection has sometimes been entirely overlooked during its active stage, and only at a later period has the head of the femur been found lying on the dorsum ilii, or the joint found to be ankylosed. In the acute arthritis of infants which results also from staphylococcal osteomyelitis of the femur or acetabulum, the clinical features may be comparatively mild, but as a rule they assume a type in which the suppurative element pre- dominates. The limb usually becomes flexed and adducted, and a swelling forms in front of the joint at the upper part of Scarpa’s triangle. ' The head of the bone may be dislocated or the upper femoral epiphysis detached. The gonorrhoeal affections resemble those in other joints. The occurrence of pathological dislocation has been specially observed in relation to typhoid and other fevers, usually from some slight movement or push, the limb being flexed and adducted. If the child has recovered with dislocation on to the dorsum ilii, he is usually able to walk and run about, but with a limp which becomes more pronounced as he grows up. The