475 COLLEvS’ FRACTURE. is of great assistance. The surgeon grasps the patient’s hand, as if shaking hands with him, and resting the palmar surface of the wrist on his bent knee, makes firm traction through the hand, and counter-extension through the forearm, with lateral movements, if necessary, to undo impaction. When the frag- ments are freed from one another the wrist is flexed, and the hand carried to the ulnar side, while the fragments are moulded into position. When reduction is complete the deformity almost entirely disappears, and the two styloid processes regain their normal positions relative to one another. As there is no tendency to redisplacement, the simplest possible retentive apparatus should be applied. A firm flannel bandage, a broad strip of adhesive plaster, or a poroplastic wristlet is usually sufficient. In some cases, however, a short dorsal splint to control the wrist-joint; or anterior and posterior splints, similar to those used for fracture of both bones of the forearm, but somewhat narrower, may be employed, as they add to the patient’s comfort and sense of security. The hand and forearm are in any case supported in a sling. To avoid the stiffness which often follows this fracture, the fingers should be freely moved from the first, and massage and movement of the wrist commenced within the first few days, and carried on till movement is perfect. All appliances should be discarded in a fortnight, and the patient encouraged to use the wrist freely. The various special splints recommended for the treatment of Colles’ fracture, such as Carr’s, Gordon’s, the “ pistol splint,” and many others, are all designed to correct the deformity as well as to control the fragments. As has already been pointed out, if reduction is complete there is no deformity to correct, while if it is not complete the deformity cannot be corrected by any form of splint. Unreduced Colies’ Fracture.—When union has been allowed to take place without the displacement having been reduced, an unsightly deformity results. In young subjects whose occupa- tion is likely to be interfered with, and in women for aesthetic reasons, the bone may be divided by an osteotome, and set in a straight position. As a rule, however, the usefulness of the limb is not interfered with, and operative measures are rarely called for. There occasionally occurs a fracture of the lower end of the radius with forward displacement of the carpal fragment {Colles’ jractwre reversed or Smith’s fracture). It is nearly always due to forcible flexion, as from a fall on the back