SURGICAL FEVERS DUE TO BACTERIA. 65 ing the surfaces with undiluted carbolic acid, and then packed with iodoform gauze or worsted. In abdominal cases the peritoneal cavity should be washed out with sterilised salt solution. In some cases .salt solution may be injected with great benefit directly into the veins or into the subcutaneous tissue. When the toxin is of streptococcal origin, recourse may be had to the injection of anti-streptococcic serum. Amputation of a limb for septicaemia is a last resource, and too often a forlorn hope. The general treatment is carried out on the same lines as in sapraemia. Pyaemia is a form of septic poisoning characterised by the development of secondary foci of suppuration in different parts of the body by metastasis. Toxins are thus introduced into the blood, not only at the primary seat of infection, but also from each of these metastatic collections. Like septicaemia, this condition is due to pyogenic bacteria, the streptococcus pyogenes being the commonest organism found. The primary infection is usually in a surface wound, but cases occur in which the point of entrance of the bacteria is not discoverable. The dissemina- tion of the organisms takes place through the medium of septic emboli which form in a thrombosed vein in the vicinity of the original lesion, and breaking loose are carried thence in the blood-stream. These emboli lodge in the minute vessels of the lungs, spleen, liver, kidneys, pleura, brain, synovial membranes, or cellular tissue, and the bacteria they contain give rise to inflammatory changes which end in suppuration. Secondary abscesses are thus formed in those parts, and these in turn may be the starting-point of new emboli which give rise to fresh areas of pus formation. The organs above named are the commonest situations of pyaemic abscesses, but they may also occur in the bone marrow, the substance of muscles, the heart and pericardium, lymphatic glands, subcutaneous tissue, or, in fact, in any tissue of the body. Septic organisms circulating in the blood are very prone to lodge on the valves of the heart and give rise to endocarditis. Clinical Features.—Before antiseptic surgery was practised, pyaemia was a common complication of surgical wounds. In the present day it is not only infinitely less common, but appears also to be of a less severe type. Its rarity and its mildness may be related as cause and effect, because it is found that pyaemia contracted from a pyaemic patient is more virulent than that from any other source. Pyaemia seldom develops within a week of an operation or VOL. I—5