FRACTURES OF UPPER END OF FEMUR. 493 Except in very thin subjects the constituent elements of the hip-joint cannot be palpated through the skin. A line drawn vertically downwards from the middle of Poupart’s ligament passes over the centre of the joint, which, in adults, lies on the same level as the tip of the great trochanter. In children it is somewhat higher. For purposes of clinical diagnosis it is necessary to locate certain bony prominences, the most important of which are :—(1) The anterior superior iliac spine, which is most readily recognised by running the fingers along Poupart’s ligament from within outwards. (2) The ischial tuberosity, which in the extended position of the limb is overlapped by the lower margin of the gluteus maximus muscle, and is therefore not easily located with precision. By pressing from below upwards in the gluteal fold the smooth, rounded prominence can usually be detected. (3) The quadrilateral great trochanter is readily recognised on the outer aspect of the hip. Its highest point or tip can best be felt by pressing over the gluteal muscles from above downwards. Clinical Tests.—If a line be drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the most prominent part of the ischial tuberosity, it just touches the tip of the great trochanter. This is known as Ndaton’s line (Fig. 139). Bryant’s test is applied with the patient lying on his back, and consists in dropping a perpendicular AB from the anterior superior iliac spine, and drawing a line CD from the tip of the great trochanter to intersect the perpendicular at right angles. This is done on both sides of the body, and the length of the lines CD compared. Shortening on one side indicates an upward displacement of the trochanter, lengthening its downward displacement. The third side AC of the triangle indicates the distance between the anterior spine and the tip of the trochanter. Chienes test, which is simpler than either of these, consists in apply- ing a strip of lead or tape across the front of the body at the level of the anterior superior iliac spines, and another touching the tips of the two trochanters. Any want of parallelism in these lines indicates a change in the position of one or other trochanter. Fractures of the Upper End of the Femur. It will be convenient here to study the various fractures of the femur in the vicinity of the hip which are liable to be con- fused in diagnosis with one another and with dislocations. These include fractures of the head, the neck, the trochanters, and the shaft just below the trochanters. Fracture of the head of the femur is exceedingly rare. It is usually a complication of backward dislocation of the hip. There is splitting of the articular surface by impact against the edge of the acetabulum, analogous to the indentation fracture of the head of the humerus, which may accompany dislocation of the shoulder. In a few cases the upper epiphysis has been separated.