WOUNDS BY FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES. 215 In nearly all cases the skull is fractured, and the inner table is invariably damaged over a wider area than the outer. This is true even of grazing wounds which produce a long gutter-shaped fracture of the outer table with wide splintering of the inner. Fragments of bone are usually found perforating the dura mater and damaging the cerebral cortex. The experience of the recent South African campaign showed that operative interference is indicated in nearly all wounds of the skull ; that the trephine should be applied over the wound of entrance ; and that the results on the whole are eminently satisfactory. Penetrating wounds of the thorax are sometimes attended with a considerable degree of hsemothorax, which may necessitate aspiration of the pleural cavity on account of embarrassment of respiration. In other cases there is very little haemorrhage, the only external sign of which is a slight and transient haemoptysis. Operative treatment is seldom indicated except for the removal of splinters of rib, or of a bullet which is causing symptoms and which has been localised by the X-rays. Wounds of the heart are usually rapidly fatal, but recovery has taken place in cases in which there was every reason to believe that the heart had been perforated. Wounds of the Abdomen.—Recent experience has demonstrated that small - bore bullets usually produce comparatively slight disturbance even when they perforate hollow as well as solid viscera ; and that for such injuries the results of surgical interference are extremely dis- appointing. In the South African War about 60 per cent of perfoi’ating abdominal wounds recovered without operation — a result which is attributed to the fact that modern bullets make very minute punctures in the intestine, which immediately close. As the peristalsis is arrested by the shock of the injury, nothing escapes, especially if, as is usually the case in active warfare, the pjatient has been fasting for some hours before being wounded. The punctures in the gut have therefore time to become occluded by peritoneal adhesions before the intestinal contents piass along the injured segment. The passage of a small-bore bullet through a solid viscus—such as the liver, spleen, pancreas, or kidney—produces comparatively little laceration ; hence there is little or no bleeding, and few sympytoms of any moment ensue. Operations performed on the field are contra-indicated in abdominal injuries, as they are calculated to prevent the formation of the adhesions which naturally close the perforations, or to break down such as have occurred. Shell Wounds and Wounds produced by Explosions.—It is convenient to consider together the effects of the bursting of shells fired from heavy ordnance in warfare, and those resulting in the course of blasting operations from the discharge of dynamite or other explosives, or from the bursting of steam boilers or pipes, the breaking of machinery, and similar accidents occurring in civil industries. Two types of shell are used by artillery : the common shell, which consists of a hollow metal cylinder containing a bursting charge of powder, discharged either by a time fuse or by impact;