TUBERCULOSIS. 144 is carried out in various ways, according to the situation and extent of the abscess. We shall consider in the first place the various procedures employed when the skin over the abscess is intact. Theoretically the most certain measure is to excise the abscess as a whole, as if it were a tumour; but in practice this is only possible in the small subcutaneous abscesses or strumous nodes met with in children. Evacuation of the A bscess and Injection of Iodoform.—The pre- paration employed is a ten per cent, emulsion of powdered iodo- form in glycerin, which becomes sterile soon after it is prepared. Its curative effects would appear to depend upon the liberation of iodine, which restrains the activity of the bacilli, and upon its capacity for irritating the tissues and stimulating the forma- tion of scar tissue. An ansesthetic is rarely called for, except in children. The contents of the abscess are. first evacuated by means of a large trocar and cannula introduced obliquely through the overlying soft parts, avoiding any part where the skin is thin or red. If the cannula becomes blocked with caseous material it must be cleared with a probe. The iodoform emulsion is injected by means of a glass-barrelled syringe, which should be firmly screwed on to the cannula. The amount injected varies with the size of the abscess and the age of the patient; it may be said to range from two or three drams in the’case of children to several ounces in larger abscesses in adults. The cannula is then withdrawn, and the puncture covered with a gauze dress- ing, and bandaged so as to exert a certain amount of compression. If the abscess fills up again, the injection should be repeated once or oftener. A one per cent, solution of formalin in glycerin has been employed as a substitute for iodoform. When the contents of the abscess are semi-solid and cannot be evacuated even through a large cannula, a small incision must be made, and after emptying the cavity, the iodoform emulsion is introduced through a short rubber tube attached to the syringe. The injection is continued while the wound is being closed with sutures, so that when the operation is completed the cavity will be distended with the emulsion. The method is not satisfactory unless the wound heals by first intention. Experience has shown that even large abscesses, such as those associated with spinal disease, may be cured by one or other of the above methods of iodoform injection. Another method of treatment is by incision of the abscess and removal of the tuberculous tissue in its wall with the sharp spoon. An incision is made which will give free access to the interior of the abscess ; otherwise outlying pockets or recesses are