INHERITED SYPHILIS. 169 parts which prove obstinate, may be treated like the correspond- ing lesions in tuberculosis—that is, by operative measures directed towards the removal of the diseased tissues. Second attacks of syphilis, although very rare, do occur, especially in those who have been treated and cured by mercury. So long as the virus of syphilis remains active in the system, it protects the individual against a second attack. As a rule, there- fore, there is an interval of several years before a patient who has had syphilis can contract the disease a second time, and when he does so, it is less severe and more amenable to treatment than the first attack. As connected with this subject, we may refer to the relaps- ing false indurated chancre, described by Hutchinson and by Fournier, as it may be the source of considerable difficulty in diagnosis. A patient who has had an infecting chancre one or more years before, presents a slightly-raised induration on the penis at or close to the site of his original chancre. Often the relapsed induration is so like that of a primary chancre that it is impossible to distinguish it except by the history. If he has lately been exposed to venereal infection it is liable to be regarded as the primary lesion of a second attack of syphilis, but the further progress of the case shows neither bullet - buboes nor secondary manifestations. These facts, together with the disappearance of the induration under iodides, make it very likely that the lesion is really gummatous in character. Inherited Syphilis. Inherited syphilis is met with in the offspring of parents suffering from the disease. It presents similar features to the acquired affection, only there is no primary sore, and the first manifestations correspond to those described under acquired secondary syphilis, and result from the general dissemination of the virus through the system. The more recent the syphilis in either parent the greater is the risk of its being communicated to the offspring; so that a fruitful marriage during the secondary period almost inevitably results in such infection. The capacity of transmitting the disease may be extended, however, to several years after the disappearance of all secondary manifestations, especially in the case of the mother. If a series of children, one after the other, all suffer from inherited taint and show infantile symptoms, it is almost invariably the fact that the mother has herself suffered from syphilis. The longer the interval between the