59 CHRONIC SUPPURATION. Conditions similar to whitlow occur in the toes and sole of the foot, but with much less frequency than in the fingers and hand. Cellulitis of the forearm is usually a sequel to one of the deeper varieties of whitlow. Serious impairment of usefulness in the limb often results from sloughing of fasciae and tendons or from adhesions. Implication of the carpal and wrist joints, with necrosis of bone, is also common, unless incisions are made early to prevent it. In the region of the elbow joint cellulitis is common around the olecranon process. It may originate as a septic bursitis, or may invade the olecranon bursa secondarily. In exceptional cases the elbow joint is involved also. Cellulitis of the axilla usually originates in the lymphatic glands, or it may spread from the neck. The process may pass down the arm, on to the chest wall, or into the shoulder joint. In the region of the ankle cellulitis is not common; but around the knee it frequently occurs in relation to the prepatellar bursa and in the popliteal lymphatic glands, and may endanger the knee joint. It is also met with in the groin following on inflammation and suppuration of the glands, and may implicate the femoral vessels. Cellulitis of the scalp, orbit, neck, pelvis, and perineum will be considered with the diseases of these regions. Chronic Suppuration. The formation of a chronic or cold abscess is, in the great majority of instances, the result of the action of the tubercle bacillus. At the same time, it is true that pus may form slowly from the breaking down of a syphilitic gumma. In certain rare cases, especially of bone disease and in the breast, pyogenic bacteria act so slowly that the resulting abscesses may justly be called chronic. It is, however, more convenient to study this form of suppuration with tuberculosis, and the reader is referred to the chapter on that subject. Local Results of Suppuration when Healing is Prevented—Sinus and Fistula. A Sinus is a track leading from a focus of suppuration in the substance of the tissues to the surface of the skin or of a mucous membrane. There are two varieties of sinus met with clinically —that which is prevented from healing by mechanical causes; and the tuberculous sinus.