718 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. Pes Cavus.—This deformity is also known as hollow claw- foot, pes arcuatus, or pes excavatus. The longitudinal arch of the foot is exaggerated as a result of the approximation of the heads of the metatarsal bones to the heel. There is a mild form which is congenital and sometimes inherited, and which is quite independent of paralysis. Pes cavus is most frequently met with, however, as an addition to pes equinus or pes calcaneus of paralytic origin, and has been already described. As an independent affection it has been said to result from paralysis of the extensor brevis digitorum or of the interossei, but the evidence in support of this is by no means convincing. It may occur in certain rare diseases of the spinal cord, such as Friedreich’s ataxia. The name hollow claw-foot appropriately indicates the clinical appearances. The arch is exaggerated and the instep abnormally high; there is hyperextension of the toes at the metatarso-phalangeal joints, and plantar-flexion at the inter-phalangeal joints. The plantar fascia and muscles are shortened in association with the approximation of the heel and the balls of the toes. The footprint shows that neither border of the sole touches the ground. The patient may complain of pain in the instep, of difficulty in getting properly fitting boots or shoes, and of painful corns over the heads of the metatarsal bones. Treatment should be first directed towards the equinus or calcaneus element of the deformity, foj; if these are corrected the cavus condition tends to get well. The contracted structures in the sole may require to be divided either sub- cutaneously or by the open method, as a preliminary to forcible correction. Flat-foot—Pes Planus and Pes Valgus. Flat-foot or splay-foot is that deformity in which the foot tends to be pronated and abducted with loss of the arch. The term pes planus is applicable when there is merely loss of the arch, pes valgus when the foot is pronated so that the sole tends to look outwards. Of all deformities of the foot, flat-foot is the one for which advice is most frequently sought. It is usually bilateral, and is about twice as common in the male as in the female. Various types of flat-foot are met with, and are known as static, congenital, traumatic, paralytic, rachitic, rheumatic, arthritic, gonorrhoeal, and tabetic. Static or Adolescent Flat-foot.—This is by far the commonest and most important variety of flat-foot (Fig. 253).