164 SYPHILIS. The Relations of Syphilis to Marriage.—Even under the most favourable conditions, no patient should be allowed to marry until fully two years have elapsed after the last secondary manifestation has disappeared. Where there have been no secondary manifestations the two years’ limit must date from the original chancre. While marriage may be entered upon under these conditions without risk of the husband infecting the wife, the possibility of his conveying the disease to the offspring cannot be absolutely excluded. It has been recommended as a precautionary measure, to give a further mercurial course of two or three months’ duration before marriage. In view of the fact that women who have suffered from syphilis retain the liability to transmit the disease to their offspring much longer than men, the responsibility of permitting them to marry should rarely, if ever, be undertaken. Intermediate Stage.—After the dying away of the secondary manifestations and before the appearance of tertiary lesions, the patient may present certain symptoms which Hutchinson has called reminders. They usually consist of relapses of certain of the affections of the skin, mouth, or throat already described. In the skin, they may assume the form of peeling patches in the palms, or as spreading and confluent circles of a scaly papular eruption, which, if neglected, may lead to the formation of fissures and superficial ulcers. They are easily cured, but readily relapse. Less frequently there may be a relapse of the eye affections, or of the paralytic symptoms from disease of the cerebral arteries. Treatment is conducted on the same lines as in late second- ary syphilis, mercury and iodides being given in combination. Sometimes the preparation known as Donovan’s solution, con- taining the double iodide of mercury and arsenic, is to be preferred. The general health usually requires to be built up by tonics and change of air, and a sea voyage may be found of the greatest value in increasing the resisting powers of the patient. Tertiary Syphilis. — Although the early and systematic treatment of syphilis by mercury nearly always prevents the manifestations which fall to be described under this head, it is impossible to give a guarantee to this effect in any individual case. While the manifestations of primary and secondary syphilis are common enough in practice, those of the tertiary period are by comparison rare, and are chiefly observed in those who have either neglected treatment or who have had