INJURIES OF VEINS. 239 of dislocations. The veins most commonly ruptured are the popliteal, the axillary, the femoral, and the subclavian. On account of the smaller amount of elastic and muscular tissue in a vein, the contraction and retraction of its walls is less than in an artery, and so bleeding may continue for a much longer period. On the other hand, owing to the lower Wood pressure in a vein the outflow goes on more slowly, and the gradually increasing pressure produced by the extravasated blood is usually sufficient to arrest the haemorrhage before it has become serious. As an aid in diagnosing the source of the bleeding, it should be remembered that the rupture of a vein does not affect the pulsation in the limb beyond. The risks are practically the same as when an artery is ruptured, and the treatment is carried out on the same lines, but in the case of veins it is seldom necessary to operate for the purpose of applying a ligature. Wounds of veins—punctured and incised—frequently occur in the course of surgical operations ; for example, in the removal of tumours or diseased glands from the neck, the axilla, or the groin. They are also met with as a result of accidental stabs and of suicidal or homicidal injuries. The haemorrhage from a large vein so damaged is usually profuse, but owing to the comparatively low blood pressure is more readily controlled by external pressure than that from an artery. When a vein is merely punctured, the bleeding may be arrested either by applying firm pressure with a pad of gauze, or by lateral ligature—that is, picking up the margins of the rent in the wall and securing them with a ligature without occluding the lumen. It is sometimes possible to suture the opening in the wall of the vein. This does not result in obliteration of the lumen, nor does a thrombus necessarily form. Simultaneous injuries of arteries and veins are usually pro- duced accidentally by stabs, cuts, or bullets, and are often attended with profuse haemorrhage. In the limbs the risk of gangrene is materially increased when both the artery and the vein are divided, and gangrene is especially liable to ensue if the wound become infected. Punctured and gunshot wounds implicating both vessels are very liable to be followed by the development of arterio-venous aneurysm. In the region of the neck air may be sucked into an open vein, giving rise to air embolism. Entrance of Air into Veins—Air Embolism.—This serious, though fortunately rare, accident is apt to occur in the course of operations in the region of the thorax, neck, or axilla, if a