93 CLINICAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. The difference is merely one of degree. Frost-bite affects chiefly the toes and fingers,—especially the great toe and the little finger,—the ears, and the nose. In this country it is seldom seen except in members of the tramp class, who, in addition to being exposed to cold by sleeping in the open air, are ill-fed and generally debilitated. The condition usually manifests itself after the parts, having been subjected to extreme cold, are brought into warm surroundings. The first symptom of frost- bite is numbness in the part. This is followed by a sense of weight, tingling, and finally by complete loss of sensation. The part attacked becomes white and bleached-looking, feels icy cold, and is insensitive to touch. Either immediately, or, it may be, not for several days, it becomes discoloured and swollen, and finally it contracts and shrivels. The dead portion is cast off, as in other forms of dry gangrene, by the formation of a line of demarcation. When recovery ensues, its onset is indicated by the white parts assuming a livid red hue and becoming the seat of an acute burning sensation. Prophylaxis.—The first essential in the prophylaxis of frost- bite is to avoid the too sudden application of heat. The patient should be placed in a cold room, and the part rubbed with snow or put in a cold bath, and have light friction applied to it. As the circulation is restored the general surroundings and the local applications are gradually made warmer. Elevation of the part, wrapping it in cotton wool, and removal to a warmer room are then permissible, and stimulants and warm drinks may be given with caution. Strong chemical agents, such as caustic potash, nitric or sulphuric acid, may also induce local tissue necrosis. The resulting sloughs are very slow to separate, and leave deep punched-out cavities which are slow of healing. Carbolic acid, even in comparatively weak solution, is liable to induce dry gangrene when applied as a moist dressing to the fingers of certain individuals, especially women and children (Fig. 18). Thrombi form in the blood-vessels of the part, which at first is pale and soft, but later becomes dark and leathery. On account of the anaesthetic action of carbolic acid the onset of the process is painless, and the patient does not realise his danger. A line of demarcation soon forms, but the dead part separates very slowly. Gangrene from Hfechanical Constriction of the Vessels of the part.—The application of a bandage or plaster of Paris case too tightly, or of a tourniquet for too long a time, has been known to lead to death of the part beyond ; but such cases are rare, as