119 TETANUS. cease. In hydrophobia a history of having been bitten by a rabid animal is usually forthcoming; the spasms, which are clonic in character, affect chiefly the muscles of respiration and deglutition, and pass off’ entirely in the intervals between attacks. Cerebrospinal meningitis and basal meningitis present certain superficial resemblances to tetanus, but there is no trismus, and the spasms chiefly affect the muscles of the neck and back. Certain cases of haemorrhage into the lateral ventricles of the brain also simulate tetanus, but an analysis of the symptoms will prevent errors in diagnosis. Hysteria and catalepsy may assume characters resembling those of- tetanus, but beyond the spasms there is nothing in common between these diseases. Lastly, the tetany of children, or that following operations on the thyroid gland, must not be confused with tetanus. In tetany the spasms are of a jerking character, affect chiefly the hands and fingers, and yield to medicinal treatment. Prophylaxis.—The prevention of tetanus depends on thorough purification and careful antiseptic treatment of all wounds which have been liable to infection by earth, stable refuse, or street dust. All instruments and appliances used for operations on tetanic patients must be sterilised by prolonged boiling before being put away. Treatment.—When symptoms of the disease have appeared, the indications for treatment are :—(1) To arrest the formation and introduction into the circulation of f urther supplies of the toxin. To this end the wound must be thoroughly purified by the usual means, the unhealthy walls being bodily excised and the raw surface left sponged over with carbolic acid and dressed with iodoform gauze. Amputation is never called for to meet this indication. (2) To promote excretion of the toxins already absorbed by ensuring free action of the bowels, kidneys, and skin. The injection of saline solution into the veins or cellular tissue may be had recourse to with this object. (3) To counteract the toxins already in circulation. — The value of the anti-tetanic serum is still in doubt. While it is true that a degree of immunity may be produced in animals by means of antitoxic serum, there is at present little evidence that any material benefit follows its use in acute progressive tetanus in the human subject. The vast majority of the cases in which the serum has been employed and the patient has recovered have been of the chronic type of the disease, which naturally tends to spontaneous cure. In spite of these facts, however, and in view of the success which has followed the use of other