ACTION OF THE BACILLUS ON THE TISSUES. 139 diffuse, and infiltrating. This granulation tissue presents characteristic histological elements—for example, large cells, often with more than one nucleus, spoken of as endothelioid cells; and still larger cells, known as giant cells. There are also large numbers of small round cells which resemble the leucocytes of the blood and lymph. It is further characteristic of tuberculous granulation tissue that it tends to undergo certain forms of degeneration and death, of which the best known is caseation. This implies the conversion of the tissue into an amorphous, pale-yellow or whitish material resembling cheese. Lime salts may subsequently be deposited in this material —a change known as calcification. In any portion of tissue examined for diagnostic purposes the recognition of the characteristic elements above described, with or without caseation, is usually sufficient evidence of its tuberculous nature. The recognition of the bacillus itself by appropriate methods of staining makes the diagnosis a certainty; but as it is by no means easy to identify it in many forms of surgical tuberculosis, it may be necessax-y to have recourse to the more certain test of experimental inoculation. The changes subsequent to the formation of tuberculous granulation tissue are liable to many variations. It must always be borne in mind that although the bacilli have effected a lodgment and have inaugurated disease, the relation between them and the tissues remains one of mutual antagonism ; which of them is to gain and keep the upper hand in the conflict depends on their relative powers of resistance. If the tissues prevail, there ensues a process of repair. In the immediate vicinity of the area of infection young connective tissue, and later, fibrous tissue is formed. This may entirely replace the tuberculous tissue and bring about repair—a fibrous cicatrix remaining to mark the scene of the previous contest. Scars of this nature are not infrequently discovered at the apex of the lung after death. Linder other circumstances the tuberculous tissue which has undergone caseation, or even calcification, is only encapsulated by the new fibrous tissue, like a foreign body. Although this may be regarded as a victory for the tissues, the cure, if such it may be called, is not always a permanent one, for at any subsequent period of life, when the part affected is disturbed by injury or through some other influence, the encapsulated tubercle may become active, may get the upper hand of the tissues, and there results what is called a relapse or recrudescence of the disease. If, however, at the inauguration of the tuberculous disease