CLINICAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. 91 development of putrefactive or pyogenic bacteria. The action of the organisms, their toxins, and the inflammatory exudates on the adjacent tissues lead to a rapid and wide spread of the process. The nuclei of the tissue cells lose their normal structure, the protoplasm becomes disintegrated and the whole tissue softened. Leucin, tyrosin, margaric acid and other products of decomposition form in the part. The formation of a sulphide of iron by decomposition of the blood pigment gives to the tissues a greenish-black colour. The putrefactive gases evolved cause the tissues to become emphysematous and crepitant. The skin becomes moist and macerated, and bulla;, containing dark-coloured fluid or gases, form under the epidermis. There is always an offensive putrid odour. Under certain conditions the dead part may undergo changes resembling more closely those of ordinary post-mortem decomposition. Owing to its nature the process seldom spontaneously arrests itself, but usually continues to spread, and proves fatal from the absorption of toxins into the circulation. The clinical features vary in the different varieties of moist gangrene, but in all we have the local results of bacterial action more or less marked; and the usual constitutional disturbance associated with such processes—the temperature raised, the pulse feeble, rapid, and compressible, and the gastro-intestinal functions deranged. There is usually a marked degree of leucocytosis. The prognosis in moist gangrene is always grave in the extreme. From what has been said it will be gathered that in dry gangrene there is no urgent call for operation to save the patient’s life, the primary indication being to prevent the access of bacteria to the dead part, and so to permit of the natural formation of a line of demarcation. In moist gangrene, on the contrary, the organisms having already obtained a footing, immediate operation, as a rule, offers the only hope of saving the patient. Clinical Varieties of Gangrene. As has already been pointed out, the factor which plays the most important role in determining whether a given case of gangrene belongs to the moist or the dry type is the presence or absence of bacterial infection. When organisms are present moist or inflammatory gangrene occurs; when they are excluded the gangrene is of the dry or non-inflammatory type. The different forms which gangrene assumes clinically are so