623 TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. become permanent from ankylosis, or from contracture of the soft parts around the joint. Startings at night, which are frequently met with in the stage of muscular fixation, are to be regarded as indications that the disease of the articular surfaces is progressive. They are more often met with in cases which go on to suppuration. The formation of abscess is one of the commonest accompani- ments of tuberculous joint disease. It may appear early and play a prominent part in the clinical picture, or it may not develop till long after the original disease has subsided. Its formation is often attributed to a slight injury. It may develop so insidiously that it may not attract attention until it has attained considerable size, especially when associated with disease of the spine, pelvis, or hip. The abscess presents itself at definite situations in relation to the different joint's, its position being determined by the anatomical relationships of the capsule and synovial membrane to the surrounding tissues. The bursae and tendon sheaths in the vicinity when infected may influence the direction of spread of the abscess and the situation of resulting sinuses. The formation of abscess in the course of tuberculous joint disease may sometimes be an advantage, as it may render a tuberculous focus more amenable to treatment, especially by the injection of iodoform. When left to burst of itself, however, or when opened and allowed to become infected with pyogenic bacteria, there is not only the risk of aggravation of the disease and persistent suppuration, but there is a greater liability to general tuberculosis. When sinuses form, they are often so tortuous that it may be difficult or impossible to pass a probe down to the focus front which the abscess took its origin. Infection of the lymphatic glands of the limb is exceptional as a result of joint disease, but it may follow upon tuberculous infection of the skin around the orifice of a sinus. The occurrence of pyrexia in tuberculous joint disease usually indicates suppuration, or the dissemination of the tubercle—for exam]tie, to the lungs or membranes of the brain. A slight rise of temperature in the evening may be induced in quiescent joint lesions by injury or by movement of the joint under chloroform, or by such extra exertion as a railway journey. The develop- ment and spread of an abscess may also be attended with an evening rise of temperature ; but when the abscess is quiescent the temperature usually remains normal. A carefully-taken temperature chart, therefore, may afford useful information as to the formation or spread of an abscess. When sinuses have