FRACTURES. 397 powerful muscles inserted into one of the fragments pull it away from its neighbour; that the weight of the distal portion of the limb causes it to fall in a particular direction in obedience to gravity ; or that certain movements on the part of the patient determine displacement. In addition to retaining the broken ends of the bone in apposi- tion, the after treatment of a fracture involves the taking of steps to promote the absorption of effused blood and serum, to main- tain the circulation through the injured parts, and to favour the repair of damaged muscles and other soft tissues. Means must also be taken to maintain the functional activity of the muscles of the damaged area, to prevent the formation of adhesions in joints and tendon sheaths, and generally to restore the function of the injured part. Practical Means of Effecting Retention-—By Position.—It is often found that only in one particular position can the fragments be made to meet and remain in apposition—for example, the com- pletely supine position of the forearm in fracture of the radius just above the insertion of the pronator radii teres. Again, in certain cases it is only by relaxing particular groups of muscles that the displacement can be undone—as, for instance, in fracture of the femur immediately above the condyles, where flexion of the knee, by relaxing the calf muscles, permits of reduction. Massage and Movement in the Treatment of Simple Fractures. —Until within recent years fractures were invariably treated by complete immobilisation of the injured limb in a splint or other form of rigid apparatus, until firm osseous union had taken place. The result of the prolonged fixation of the limb was that in many cases the muscles became atrophied from want of use, adhesions formed in joints and tendon sheaths from organisation of effused products, the restoration of function was much delayed, and in some cases permanent stiffness resulted. Lucas-Championniere, in 1895, was the first to advocate the treatment of fractures by massage and movement, and to discard the use of rigid splints and other retentive appliances, and since then many surgeons have followed his teaching. From experience of this method we are satisfied that it has many advantages over the older plan. At the same time, it involves an amount of direct and personal supervision which is not at all times practicable. The measures adopted vary according to the nature and seat of the fracture, but in general terms it may be stated that after the fracture has been reduced, the ends of the broken bone are carefully retained in position by the hands of an assistant,