SURGERY OF THE INDIVIDUAL NERVES. 327 the ground is forced in the opposite direction, so that a con- siderable stretching force is exerted along the line of the affected nerves (Victor Horsley). There is anesthesia on the outer aspect of the arm and forearm, paralysis of the deltoid, biceps, brachialis anticus, and supinator longus and brevis muscles (Erb’s group of muscles), and pain in the neck and down the arm. The prognosis varies with the nature of the lesion. When the roots are torn from the cord it is very unfavourable. The patient requires a support for the elbow, or it may be advan- tageous to bring about ankylosis of this joint in the flexed position, because of the paralysis of its flexors. Where the nerve cords are ruptured the question of uniting them by operation arises. Satisfactory results have been obtained from suture of the cords (Thorburn). In the birth palsies of the upper extremity in children—first described by Duchenne—the fifth and sixth cervical cords are those usually affected. There is often a history of considerable force having been employed during the birth of the child whereby the nerve cords are bruised or stretched. If there is no prospect of spontaneous recovery as indicated by the develop- ment of electrical reactions in the affected muscles, the nerve trunks may be exposed above the clavicle ; according to the con- ditions met with they are freed from adhesions, or, if necessary, resected and sutured (Robert Kennedy). When the brachial cords are compressed by a cervical rib, a tumour, or a subclavian aneurysm, there is pain and motor weakness in the arm, which are treated by the removal of the compressing cause where this is possible. The nerve of Bell, which supplies the serratus magnus, may be contused or stretched as a result of injuries to the shoulder, by carrying heavy weights on the shoulder, or from prolonged exertion with the arm raised. The serratus being paralysed, the patient complains of diminished power of elevating the arm above the shoulder, and on examination the vertebral border of the scapula is found to project from the thorax, especially when the arms are stretched out in front (Fig. 259). The arm must be rested and supported in a sling so adjusted as slightly to raise the shoulder, and the functions of the nerve and muscle are promoted by massage and electricity. The suprascapular nerve may be paralysed as a result of injuries to the shoulder. The supra- and infra-spinatus muscles are paralysed and wasted, the spine of the scapula becomes unduly prominent, and there is some impairment in the power