512 CHAPTER XXVI. INJURIES IN THE REGION OF THE KNEE AND LEG. Surgical Anatomy—Fractures of Lower End of Femur : Supra- condylar ; T- or Y-shaped ; Separation of epiphysis; Either condyle —Fractures of Upper End of Tibia: Of head; Separation of epiphysis; Avulsion of tubercle of tibia—Dislocations of Knee : Dislocations of superior tibio-fibular joint — Internal Derange- ments of Knee—Injuries of Patella : Fractures; Dislocations— Injuries of Leg : Fracture of both bones; Fracture of tibia alone ; Fracture of fitoda alone. Injuries in the Region of the Knee. These include the supra-condylar fracture of the femur, the T or Y-shaped fracture opening into the joint, separation of the lower femoral epiphysis ; fracture of the head of the tibia, and separation of its upper epiphysis ■ the various dislocations and sprains of the knee, as well as its internal derangements ; and fractures and dislocations of the patella. Surgical Anatomy.—Of the two condyles the internal is the more prominent and palpable. On its upper edge is situated the adductor tubercle, which gives attachment to the round tendon of the adductor magnus, and which marks the level of the epiphysial line, and the upper limit of the trochlear surface of the femur. Between the internal condyle and the inner tuberosity of the tibia a furrow can be recognised, especially in the flexed position, and in it the anterior end of the internal semilunar cartilage may be felt. The outer tuberosity of the tibia can also be palpated, and must not be mistaken for the head of the fibula, which lies farther back and at a slightly lower level, and can readily be identified by tracing to it the tendon of the biceps. The tubercle of the tibia, into which the quadriceps extensor tendon is inserted, lies on the same level as the head of the fibula. In the extended position of the limb the patella is seen and felt on the front of the trochlear surface of the femur, in which position it is loose and movable, and presents a hollow on each side of it. In flexion it sinks between the condyles, resting chiefly on the outer one and becoming fixed. The popliteal artery and vein, and the internal popliteal nerve lie in close relation to the posterior aspect of the joint; and the external popliteal nerve passes behind and to the inner side of the biceps tendon.