SURGERY OF THE INDIVIDUAL NERVES. 331 paralysis of the interossei and inner lumbricals, the fingers cannot be flexed at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints or extended at the inter-phalangeal joints, the disability chiefly affecting the ring and little fingers. The fingers can neither be adducted nor abducted, and the interosseous spaces are hollowed out from wasting of the interossei. There is loss of adduction of the thumb, and of abduction of the little finger, which can no longer be opposed to the thumb. There is wasting of the hypothenar, and of the ulnar portion of the thenar eminence. In time the contraction of the opponents of the paralysed interossei produces over-extension of the first phalanges and flexion of the others, so that a “claw hand” or main en griffe develops, the claw attitude chiefly affecting the ring and little fingers (Fig. 61). The skin and nails of the ring and little fingers often present trophic changes. When the nerve is injured above the origin of the branches to the muscles in the forearm, the hand when flexed deviates to the radial side, and in time this deviation becomes permanent, and the grasp of the hand is weakened, especially in the ring and little fingers. The extent of anaesthesia is variable. When the nerve is divided above the origin of the palmar cutaneous branch, the palmar aspect of the ulnar side of the wrist and hand is anaes- thetic, as well as the dorsum of the hand and both aspects of the little and of one half of the ring finger. The external 'popliteal nerve is most exposed to injury where , it winds round the neck of the fibula. It may be compressed by a tight bandage or tourniquet, or it may be bruised or torn in fractures of the upper end of the bone. It has been divided in accidental wounds—by a scythe, for example—and in performing subcutaneous tenotomy of the biceps tendon. Cases have been observed of paralysis of the nerve as a result of prolonged acute flexion of the knee in certain occupations. When the nerve is paralysed the most obvious result is “ drop-foot.” The patient is unable to dorsiflex the foot and i cannot lift his toes off the ground, so that in walking lie is obliged to throw or jerk the foot forwards and outwards. Ames- thesia is absent or very limited. In course of time the foot becomes markedly inverted and the toes are pointed—pes equino- varus—and trophic sores are liable to form. The internal popliteal nerve, from its anatomical situation, is f but rarely injured. The sciatic nerve also is little exposed to injury. When it is compressed, as by sitting on a fence, there is tingling and