155 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. in the case of doubtful sores, we agree with those who, regarding mercury as the best-known antidote to the virus of syphilis, aim at bringing the patient under the influence of the drug before the disease has become generalised. It is a significant fact that those who maintain that mercury should be withheld until the appearance of constitutional symptoms, are in the habit of giving the drug in spreading chancres with phagedsena, in those situated where the loss of tissue may do serious harm—as, for example, on the eyelid, and in married people, and in the case of chancres on the fingers, where there is a special risk of infecting others. The natural inference is, that if it is beneficial in these cases it is capable of doing good in all. In the presence of a chancre with well-defined induration and bullet-buboes, therefore, we prescribe mercury. The methods of administering the drug will be described with the treatment of secondary syphilis. The local treatment of the primary sore is chiefly concerned with the maintenance of absolute cleanliness. The part is washed night and morning, preferably with boracic lotion ; if the surface is unbroken, it may be dusted lightly with a powder composed of equal parts of calomel and carbonate of zinc. If there is an ulcer, the traditional and efficient application is that of a piece of lint or gauze soaked in black wash, renewed night and morning, or oftener if there is much discharge, and kept in place either by drawing the prepuce over it or by a few turns of narrow bandage or plaster. If there is any super- added inflammation or oedema the patient should be confined to bed. In concealed chancres with phimosis the sac of the prepuce should be frequently washed out with boracic or weak sublimate lotion or peroxide of hydrogen, by means of a syringe. If, however, the discharge which escapes from under the prepuce becomes foul and blood-stained, as in phagedsena, the prepuce should be slit open along the dorsum, or if sloughing, it should be cut away. The patient must sit frequently in a hot bath of weak sublimate lotion; in the intervals the parts are dressed with black wash or a powder of iodoform and calomel. If the gangrene tends to spread, the patient should be anaesthetised, the infected tissues removed with the scissors and spoon, and the raw surface rubbed with pure carbolic acid or the acid nitrate of mercury, followed by dusting with calomel and iodoform powder. When the chancre is within the meatus, iodoform bougies are inserted into the urethra, and the urine should be rendered bland by drinking large quantities of fluid; although the stream may become very