THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 276 features are those of a solid tumour lying in contact with an artery. The effect of the aneurysm on the pulse beyond is very characteristic. On the affected side the pulse in the artery beyond the aneurysm is smaller in volume and delayed by comparison with that in the normal artery on the healthy side. This is explained by the fact that the amplitude of the pulse wave varies directly, while its velocity varies inversely, with the diameter of the vessel through which the wave flows. The vessel beyond an aneurysm being contracted on account of the diminished amount of blood flowing through it,—a large quantity being retained in the sac,—the pulse wave is smaller in volume and is later in reaching a given point. A pulse tracing shows that the normal impulse and dicrotic waves are lost, and that the force and rapidity of the tidal wave are diminished. An aneurysm exerts considerable pressure on the surrounding parts, which are usually much thickened and adherent to it and to one another. Adjacent veins may be so compressed that congestion and oedema of the parts beyond are produced. Occasionally a vein is opened into and an arterio-venous aneurysm produced. Pain, disturbances of sensation, and muscular paralyses may result from pressure on nerves. Con- siderable portions of bone may undergo atrophy and be absorbed by the gradually increasing pressure. This is most typically seen in the sternum and vertebrae. Cartilage, on the other hand, yields before the pressure, so that the intervertebral discs or the costal cartilages may escape while the adjacent bones are destroyed. The skin over the aneurysm gradually becomes thinned and stretched, until finally a slough having formed, it gives way, and when the slough separates haemorrhage takes place. Pain is a variable symptom. It may be due to the extreme tension in and around the aneurysm, and to the pressure exerted on sensitive structures, in which case it is of a constant, dull, boring character. When due to direct pressure on nerve trunks it is sharp and lancinating. Differential Diagnosis.—Aneurysm is to be diagnosed from other pulsatile swellings. In some cases the pulsation of a new growth is transmitted from a large artery which lies in its vicinity. In other cases the tumour actually pulsates in virtue of its extreme vascularity. In neither case, however, is the pulsation expansile as in aneurysm—a most important point in differential diagnosis. Solid tumours, enlarged lymphatic glands, inflammatory swellings and abscesses, may receive pulsa- tion from an underlying artery. In many cases the swelling can by appropiate manipulation be moved from the artery—in