17 PYOGENIC BACTERIA. peptonising power is also less, so that pus formation takes place more slowly. At the same time its products are very potent in destroying tissue in their vicinity, and so interfere with the exudation of leucocytes which would otherwise exercise their protective influence. Streptococci invade the lymph spaces, and are associated with acute spreading conditions such as phlegmonous or erysipelatous inflammations and suppurations, lymphangitis and suppuration in lymphatic glands, puerperal peritonitis and inflammation of other serous membranes, and inflammations of synovial membranes ; also with a form of septic pneumonia which is prone to follow on severe operations in the mouth. Streptococci are also concerned in the production of spreading gangrene and pyamiia. Division takes place in one axis so that chains of varying length are formed. It is less easily cultivated in artificial media than the staphylococcus; it forms a whitish growth and does not liquefy gelatin. Bacillus Coli Communis.—This organism, which is a normal inhabitant of the intestinal tract, shows a great tendency to invade any organ or tissue whose vitality is lowered. It is causally associated with such conditions as peritonitis and peritoneal suppuration resulting from strangulated hernia, appendicitis or perforation in any part of the alimentary canal. In cystitis, pyelitis, abscess of the kidney, suppurations in the bile ducts or liver, and in many other abdominal conditions it plays a most important part. The discharge from wounds infected bjr this organism has usually a very foetid, or even a faecal odour, and often contains gases of putrefaction. It is a small rod-shaped organism with short flagella, which render it motile. It closely resembles the typhoid bacillus, but is distinguished from it by its behaviour in artificial culture media. Pneumo-bacteria.—Two forms of organism are associated with pneumonia—Fraenkel’s pneumococcus (one of the diplococci) and Friedlander’s pneumo-bacillus (a short rod-shaped form). One or other of these may be met with in empyema, pericarditis, meningitis, otitis media, hepatic abscess, lymphadenitis, and various other inflammatory and suppurative conditions. They are most frequently found in company with the ordinary pyogenic bacteria, especially streptococci. Bacillus Typhosus.—There is reason to believe that the typhoid bacillus possesses pyogenic properties, as it has been the only organism discovered in certain cases of acute suppurative periostitis, abscess of the kidney, parotid abscess, and in skin abscesses. VOL. i—2