420 INJURIES OF JOINTS. The commonest example of a fracture really complicating a dislocation is fracture of the neck of the humerus, which in a certain proportion of cases coexists with dislocation of the shoulder. Here the difficulty of diagnosis is greatly increased, and the treatment of both injuries requires to be modified. The dislocation must be reduced—by operation if necessary— before the fracture is treated, and in many cases it is advisable to secure the fragments of the broken bone by wires, pegs, or screws, to enable movement to be commenced early, and so to prevent stiffness of the joint. Old-standing Dislocations.—When from oversight or from unsuccessful treatment a dislocated bone is left for some time unreduced, changes take place in and around the joint which render its replacement by manipulation extremely difficult or even impossible. The rent in the capsule closes upon the neck of the bone, and fibrous adhesions form between muscles, tendons, and other structures which have been torn. The articular cartilage of the head, being no longer in contact with an oppos- ing cartilage, tends to become converted into fibrous tissue, and may form adhesions with other fibrous structures in its vicinity, or by its pressure on adjacent structures may form for itself a new socket of dense fibrous tissue which in time becomes lined with a secreting membrane. When the displaced head lies against a bone it becomes smooth and ebuxnated, and not infrequently spurs of bone grow out from its edges. Its continuous pressure produces a new osseous socket, from the margins of which similar osteophytic outgrowths spring, and the surrounding fibrous tissue, becoming condensed, forms a strong capsule, and a new joint results. Meanwhile the cartilage of the original socket is likewise converted into fibrous tissue, which may come to fill up the cavity, and eventually become ossified. These osseous changes often closely resemble those of arthritis deformans. The large blood-vessels and nerves in the vicin,ity may be pressed upon or stretched by the displaced bone or may be implicated in fibrous adhesions. In course of time they become lengthened or shortened in accordance with the altered attitude assumed by the limb. In many cases the new joint is remarkably mobile and useful ; but in others, pain, limited movement, atrophy of muscles and deformity render it comparatively useless and call for surgical intervention. Treatment.—It is always a difficult problem to determine the date after which it is inadvisable to attempt reduction by manipulation, and no rules can be laid down which will cover