G27 TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. insidious onset, and the fact that there is a considerable interval between the receipt of an alleged injury and the appearance of symptoms, all suggest the tuberculous origin of a given case of joint disease. The X-rays are chiefly of value in the recognition of osseous lesions. The use of Koch’s tuberculin for diagnostic purposes is not to be recommended. The prognosis varies with the seat, the extent, and the severity of the local disease, and with the resisting powers of the patient, as influenced by his general health, age, and social circumstances. Recovery is seldom impossible, but the existence of tuberculous lesions elsewhere or of septic sinuses are un- favourable factors. While tuberculous lesions in children tend to become circumscribed, the tendency in adults is in the opposite direction. The locality of the disease is an important factor, the prognosis being much more unfavourable in the hip and spine than in other joints. The length of time required for complete recovery necessarily varies, but may be stated generally as being from one to three years. The patient or his friends must be informed of this, and of the risk of relapse at some future period. Treatment.—Apart from that applicable to all forms of tuberculosis, we are here concerned with the local measures directed towards the disease in the joint. These may be described under two heads—the conservative and the operative. Conservative treatment is almost always to be employed in the first instance, since a larger proportion of cures is obtained with a less mortality and with better functional results than by operation. Only when conservative measures fail is recourse to be had to operative methods. Conservative treatment is most applicable and most successful in cases where the skin is still intact; it includes the placing of the joint at complete rest, the correction of abnormal attitudes, the production of venous congestion, and the injection of iodoform or other antiseptic agent. Treatment by rest implies the immobilisation of the diseased limb until pain and tenderness have disappeared. It is carried out by means of bandages, plaster of Paris splints, or other apparatus, according to the joint affected. The attitude in which the limb is immobilised should be that in which, in the event of subsequent stiffness, it will be most serviceable to the patient. Extension with weight and pulley is of great value, especially in disease of the hip or knee; it eliminates muscular spasm, relieves pain and startings at night, and prevents or corrects abnormal attitudes of the limb. When the patient first comes