496 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. intra-capsular fracture does not become apparent till a day or two after the accident. In impacted fracture it may be very slight. The whole limb is usually everted to a greater or less degree, and is slightly abducted. The ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata is relaxed. The symptoms are so variable, and often so slight, that it may be exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to make a positive diagnosis immediately after the accident. In all cases of uncertainty the patient should be put to bed, and treated as for a fracture. In the course of a few days, when the swelling has subsided and the pain abated, a further examination may be made, and the subsequent treatment determined by the result. Crepitus is not a constant sign, and should not be diligently sought for, as the necessary manipulations are liable to disengage the fragments and to increase the deformity. For the same reason rotatory movements are to be avoided. It is often stated that when the neck of the femur is broken the trochanter may be recognised to rotate through the arc of a smaller circle than under normal conditions. Theoretically this may be true, but the difference is so slight as to render the sign of little clinical value. In examining an old person who has sustained an injury in the region of the hip, it should be borne in mind that the limb may be shortened and everted as a result of arthritis deformans, and that the appearances may suggest the presence of a fracture. Under these conditions, however, the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata is not relaxed as it is in the case of a fracture attended with shortening and eversion. Prognosis.—A fracture of the neck of the femur in an old person is always attended with considerable risk to life, a large proportion of the patients dying within a few weeks or months of the accident from causes directly associated with it. In some cases the mental and physical shock so far diminishes the vitality of the patient that death ensues within a few days. It is possible that fat embolism may account for death in some of the rapidly fatal cases. In others the continued dorsal position induces hypostatic congestion of the lungs which proves fatal; or, owing to the difficulties of nursing, bed-sores may form, and death result from septic absorption. Frequently the prolonged confinement to bed, the continuous pain, and the natural impairment of appetite wear out the patient’s strength. In many cases the patient becomes peevish, irritable, or mentally weak. Osseous union is the exception in intra-capsular fracture,