666 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. to the movements at the hip-joint, especially those of rotation. When there is any doubt as to the diagnosis the examination should be repeated at intervals of a week or ten days. In children there are three non-febrile conditions attended with a limp and with shortening of the limb, which may be mistaken for hip disease—congenital dislocation, coxa vara, and infantile paralysis; but in all of these the normal movements are less restricted than in disease of the joint, and the history of onset is different. In tuberculous disease of the sacro-iliac joint, the pelvis may be tilted, and the limb apparently lengthened on the affected side, but the movements at the hip are retained. In tuberculous disease of the great trochanter the resemblance to morbus coxae is very close indeed. There may be abduction, eversion, im- pairment of mobility, and swelling in the region of the trochanter, followed by abscess formation. The movements are less restricted than in disease of the joint. The diagnosis, however, may not be completed until the swelling about the trochanter is explored by operation, and this should not be delayed, otherwise the disease may extend to the joint. The same remarks apply to disease of the bursae over the great trochanter, especially of the bursa beneath the aponeurosis of the gluteus maximus. In psoas abscess, or in disease of the bursa underneath the psoas, the limb is flexed and everted, there may be lordosis, and the patient may walk with a limp. The diagnosis is made by testing the movements at the hip—in commencing psoas abscess they are restricted or absent only in the direction opposed to the existing attitude; whereas in hip disease they are restricted or absent in all directions, especially abduction and rotation. Appendicitis in children is sometimes associated with flexion of the hip, and may be mistaken for hip disease through omitting to test the movements of the joint. Disease of the lymphatic glands in the groin also may cause flexion and a limp in walking. Mild forms of staphylococcal osteomyelitis of the upper end of the femur may simulate hip disease ; but these are more likely to be attended with fever, there is greater tenderness over the bone, the movements at the joint are less restricted, and there is more immediate improvement from rest in bed. Sciatica has been mistaken for hip disease as a result of care- less examination. In sciatica, flexion at the hip is only restricted when at the same time the leg is extended on the thigh. New growths in the vicinity of the hip—especially com- mencing sarcoma of the upper end of the femur—may be very