INJURIES OF BONES. 404 dislocation are in a young person more apt to cause separation of an epiphysis. Indirect violence, especially when exerted in such a way as to combine traction with torsion, is the commonest cause of epiphysial separation. Direct violence is a much less frequent cause. Muscular action occasionally produces separa- tion of such epiphyses as the anterior-superior iliac spine, the lesser trochanter of the femur, or the upper fibular epiphysis. It would appear that the majority of separations take place between the eleventh and the eighteenth years, chiefly because during this period the injuries liable to produce such lesions are most prone to occur. Although easily produced experimentally at earlier ages, they are not often met with clinically. They do not occur after twenty-five, because by that time all the epiphyses have united. In females this form of injury is exceedingly rare, and almost invariably occurs at or before puberty. The following are the most common seats of separation in the order of their frequency :—(1) The lower end of the femur; (2) the lower end of the radius ; (3) the upper end of the humerus; (4) the lower end of the humerus; (5) the lower end of the tibia; and (6) the upper end of the tibia. Morbid Anatomy. — In a true separation the epiphysial cartilage remains attached to the epiphysis. It is only in very young subjects, before ossification of the epiphysis has progressed to any length, that a pure separation between the diaphysis and epiphysis occurs, and even then the separation is seldom com- plete. In older subjects the common lesion is a separation along part of the epiphysial line, with a fracture running into the diaphysis (Fig, 83). It is not uncommon for more than one epiphysis to be separated by the same accident—for example, the lower end of the femur and the upper ends of the tibia and fibula. Like ordinary fractures, epiphysial separations may be simple or compound. Incomplete separations are liable to be overlooked at the time of the accident, but there is reason to believe that they may form the starting-point of various diseases of bones and joints. Strain of the epiphysial junction is a common injury in young children, and is believed to account for so-called “ growing pains ” in some cases. Clinical Features. — In pure and complete separations the symptoms simulate those of dislocation rather than of fracture. Thus, unnatural mobility at an epiphysial junction may closely resemble movement at the adjacent joint, especially when the epiphysis is an intracapsular one. The degree of deformity is often slight, because of the transverse direction of the lesion, the breadth of the separated surfaces, and the firmness of the