Ill DIPHTHERIA. wound, scratch, or 1 (lister which is present must be treated on antiseptic lines. To allay the local pain perhaps the most useful applications are ichthyol ointment (1 in 6), thiol (in 20 to 40 per cent aqueous solution) painted on several times a day, or lead and opium fomentations. The general treatment consists in attending to all the enmnctories, in administering quinine in small—two-grain— doses every four hours, and in giving plenty of fluid nourish- ment. Perchloride of iron was at one time considered a specific in erysipelas, but its use has been largely given up, as it frequently deranges the stomach and produces constipation. It is worthy of note that the anti-streptococcic serum has proved of less value in the treatment of erysipelas than might have been expected in view of the fact that the disease is due to the action of a streptococcus. Recent investigations seem to indicate that it is not necessary to isolate cases of erysipelas, provided the usual precautions against carrying infection from one patient to another are rigidly carried out. Diphtheria. Diphtheria is an acute infectious disease due to the action of a specific bacterium, the bacillus diphtherice or Klebs-Loffler bacillus. The commonest site of infection is the throat, where the effects are first local, and consist in the formation of a false membrane. This false membrane is composed of necrosed epithelium, fibrin, leucocytes, and red blood corpuscles. As the disease progresses, a general systemic toxin poisoning, associated with great muscular weakness, a tendency to syncope, and albuminuria, ensues. After the acute symptoms have passed off, various localised paralyses, affecting particularly the nerves of the palatal and orbital muscles, develop in from 15 to 20 per cent, of cases. Etiology and Morbid Anatomy.-—The diphtheria bacillus occurs in the form of short, slender rods, straight or slightly bent, and frequently having rounded or clubbed extremities. They form clusters of varying numbers, and may be found inside leucocytes. They do not form spores, but possess a high degree of resistance, even in the dry condition. The bacilli are found abundantly, and almost exclusively, in the more superficial parts of the falsej membrane. They rarely occur in the blood-