23.3 FAT EMBOLISM. extreme restlessness, there is often great difficulty in carrying out the proper treatment of the primary surgical condition, and considerable modifications in splints and other appliances are often rendered necessary. A form of delirium, sometimes spoken of as Traumatic Delirium, may follow on severe injuries or operations in persons of neurotic temperament, or in persons whose nervous system is exhausted by overwork. It is met with apart from alcoholic intemperance. This form of delirium seems to be specially prone to ensue on operations on the face, the thyroid gland, or on the genito-urinary organs. The symptoms appear in from two to five days after the operation, and take the form of restlessness, sleeplessness, low incoherent muttering, and picking at the bed- clothes. It is not necessarily attended by fever or by muscular tremors. The patient may show hysterical symptoms. This condition is probably to be regarded as a form of true insanity, and the patient may become maniacal or melancholic. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as that of delirium tremens. Fat Embolism.' — After various injuries and operations, but especially such as implicate the marrow of long bones—for example, comminuted fractures, osteotomies, resections of joints, or the forcible correction of deformities—fluid fat may enter the circulation in variable quantity. In the vast majority of cases no ill effects follow, but when the quantity is large or when the absorption is long-continued certain symptoms ensue. These are mostly referable to the lungs and brain. They may come on immediately, but as a rule do not do so for two 01 three days. In the lungs the fat collects in the minute blood-vessels and produces venous congestion and oedema. Dyspnoea, with cya- nosis, a persistent cough and frothy or blood-stained sputum, a feeble pulse and low temperature are the chief symptoms. Pneumonia frequently ensues. When the fat lodges in the capillaries of the brain the pulse becomes small, rapid, and irregular, delirium followed by coma ensues, and the condition is usually rapidly fatal. Fat is usually to be detected in the urine, even in mild cases. In fatal cases there are usually other complications present. The treatment is entirely symptomatic.