DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. 684 tomy or excision is incapable of removing the whole of the disease, and this is called for because of the general health. Treatment of Deformities resulting from Antecedent Disease of the Knee.—When the articular surfaces are fairly preserved, and the flexion is due to contraction of the posterior part of the capsule and other structures in the popliteal space, these should be divided through an oblique incision made from above downwards across the space. If forcible correction is attempted without cutting, it must be carried out gradually. When there is fibrous or osseous ankylosis in the flexed position and no hope of a movable joint, a more extensive operation is necessary. In adults this consists in removing a wedge of bone. In patients who are still growing, it may be possible to straighten the limb by a modified arthrectomy and the removal of a thin slice of bone, or by dividing the femur above the joint. The alternative is to wait until the patient is nearly fully grown, and then remove a wedge of bone. Pyogenic diseases may result from infection through the blood-stream, from the spread of infection- from one of the adjacent bones, or from a penetrating wound of the joint. The clinical features, while varying in acuteness and severity, always include well-marked local signs, effusion into the synovial cavity being a prominent and easily recognised feature. The commoner types include the serous synovitis associated with disease in the adjacent bone, acute arthritis of infants, joint suppuration in pyaemia, septic arthritis following upon penetrating wounds, and the affections which result from gonorrhoea. The treatment is directed to meet the features of each individual case. The limb is immobilised on a posterior splint. If it is proposed to tap the joint, the trocar and cannula should be introduced obliquely into the supra-patellar pouch. If it is necessary to open and drain the joint, the incision is made on one or both sides of the patella. Even then the infection may continue to progress and threaten the life of the patient. Under these conditions the best procedure is to lay the joint freely open from side to side by dividing the patellar ligament and capsule; the limb is flexed, the whole wound left open and packed with gauze. As the infection subsides, the limb is gradually straightened. It is sometimes necessary to make additional incisions over the back of the condyles to drain the large synovial pouches which lie behind the crucial ligaments. If these methods fail, amputation through the thigh is to be had recourse to.