44G INJURIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. muscular action, as, for example, in throwing a stone. The fracture is usually transverse, and there is often little or no displacement, the fragments being retained in position by the long tendon of the biceps and the long head of the triceps. When the fracture is oblique, the fragments are often com- minuted, and sometimes impacted. The displacement of the upper fragment seems to depend upon the attitude of the limb at the moment of fracture. When the upper arm is approxi- mated to the side, the upper fragment retains its vertical position, but is slightly rotated outwards by the muscles inserted into the greater tuberosity, while the lower fragment is drawn upwards and inwards towards the coracoid process by the longitudinal muscles of the upper arm, and may be felt in the axilla. The elbow points outwards and backwards, and the upper arm is shortened. The shoulder retains its rotundity, but there is a slight hollow some distance below the acromion. On moving the shaft it is found that the head and tuberosities do not move with it, and unnatural mo- bility and crepitus at the seat of fracture may be detected. When the upper arm is abducted at the moment of fracture, the upper fragment is retained in that posi- ture of Surgical* Neck of Hu- tion by the external rotator and merus. abductor muscles inserted into it, while the lower fragment passes upwards and inwards as before. Although there is sometimes overlapping and broadening after union, the usefulness of the limb is seldom impaired. Treatment.—To ensure accurate reduction, as well as to confirm the diagnosis, a general anaesthetic is usually necessary. If the fracture is transverse there is little tendency to redis- placement. As the line of fracture is too high up in the axilla, and the bones too deeply placed among muscles to permit of the fragments being controlled by local splints applied so as to surround the fracture, we must depend upon immobi- lisation of the joints above and below to ensure fixation. A soft, elastic pad of cotton wool is placed in the hollow of the