DISEASES OF BONE. 566 The prognosis is essentially favourable, but, if carelessly treated or neglected, tlie condition may pass into the form of osteomyelitis attended with suppuration. The treatment consists in improving the general health by fresh air, sunlight, good food and attention to the bowels, and during the persistence of the pains the patient is kept at rest with the affected limb immobilised. Relapsing Osteomyelitis.—Relapsing osteomyelitis dates back to an acute attack which has been recovered from, but which has left behind it foci of infection containing staphylococci, which lie dormant in the marrow. At any time, as a result of influences at present unknown, but probably aided by depression of general health, by injury or by exposure to cold, these may again become active and cause a fresh outbreak of the disease. The original attack may have been a comparatively mild one, and may have attracted little notice, or it may have been one attended with acute illness, suppuration, and necrosis. The relapse may take place within a few months of the original attack or not for many years, and there may be only one relapse or there may be repeated outbreaks. Cases are sometimes met with in which a relapse occurs annually with remarkable regularity for several years, the tendency, however, being for each attack to become milder as the virulence of the organisms becomes more and more attenu- ated. Osteomyelitis in a patient over twenty-five is usually of the relapsing variety, and in a majority of cases the history of a previous attack can be elicited. The anatomical features of the lesion are influenced by the fact that the structure of the bone has been altered by the original attack of osteomyelitis, and by the fact that the bone is fully grown. Clinical Features. —In contrast to the original attack the local features predominate : they consist in pain, tenderness on pressure, swelling and redness. There may be an entire absence of general illness, so that the patient may continue his occupation. The surgeon's attention may be called to traces of the original attack in the shape of deformity of the bone, depressed, adherent scars, or impaired function of the adjacent joint. Where progressive thickening of the bone (hyperostosis and sclerosis) is the chief element, the patient complains of aching paius, the bone is enlarged, and may be very tender on pressure at oue point. When suppuration occurs, it is often remark- ably latent, and the pus is slow in coming to the surface. The pus which forms in relation to the bone may escape by new channels, or an old sinus may open up in continuity with the original cloaca in the bone. If there be a sequestrum, it is often of long stand- ing, and being buried or walled in by new bone, is difficult to discover and remove. When the lesion is situated near the articular end of the bone, it may be associated with changes in the adjacent joint, such as swelling and stiffness, which are liable to be regarded as the result of tuberculosis or some other form of primary joint disease. These relapsing forms of osteomyelitis, although rarely dangerous to life, may, by laying the patient up at intervals, seriously interfere with his occupation. This is especially true of cases in which sinuses in relation to necrosis in the trigone of the femur are constantly break- ing out afresh, sometimes in spite of repeated attempts to cure the condition by operation. The treatment varies with the nature of the lesion. In cases of