656 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. The Hip-Joint. Owing to the depth of this joint from the surface it is not possible to detect the presence of effusion or of synovial thickening as readily as we can in other joints, hence in the recognition of hi}) disease we have to rely very largely upon indirect evidence, such as a limp in walking, an alteration in the attitude of the limb, or restriction of the normal movements of the joint. In examining a case of suspected hip disease it is necessary to compare the lengths of the two limbs, to ascertain the position of the great trochanter in relation to Nelaton’s line, to recognise the attitude of the limbs in relation to the pelvis, and to note whether or not the pelvis is tilted. It should be borne in mind that the whole of the anterior and fully one-half of the posterior aspect of the neck of the femur is covered by synovial membrane, so that not only lesions of the epiphysis and epiphysial junction, but also those in the neck of the bone, are capable of direct extension to the synovial membrane and to the cavity of the joint. Infective material may escape from the joint into the surrounding tissues through any weak point in the capsule, particularly through the bursa which intervenes between the capsule and the ilio-psoas, and which communicates with the joint in one out of every ten subjects. Tuberculous Disease.—Tuberculous disease of the hip, morbus coxae, or “hip-joint disease,” is especially common in the poorer classes. It is a frequent cause of prolonged invalidism and of permanent deformity, and is attended with a considerable mortality. It is essentially a disease of early life, rarely commencing after puberty, and almost never after maturity. Pathological Anatomy.—Bone lesions bulk more largely in hip disease than is the case in other joints—five cases originating in bone to one in synovial membrane. The acetabulum and upper end of the femur are affected with about equal frequency. Disease originating in the spongy bone in the floor of the acetabulum may spread into the pelvis, and there give rise to a swelling which may be felt per rectum. In addition to primary tuberculous lesions, secondary changes result from pressure of the inflamed and softened bones against one another, subsequent to the destruction of their articular cartilages. The head of the femur undergoes absorption from above downwards, becoming flattened and truncated, or disappearing altogether. In the acetabulum the absorption takes place in an upward and backward direction, whereby the