535 CHAPTER XXVII. INJURIES IN REGION OF ANKLE AND FOOT. Surgical anatomy — Fractures: Pott's fracture; Converse of Pott’s fracture; Separation of lower epiphysis; Fracture of astragalus; Fracture of os calcis; Fractures of other tarsal bones; Fractures of metatarsal bones; Fractures of phalanges—Dislocations: Of ankle-joint; Of inferior tibio-fibular joint; Complete dislocation of astragalus; Sub-astragaloid dislocation; Mcdio-tarsal dislocation; Tccrso-metatarsal dislocation ; Dislocations of toes. The fractures in this region include Pott’s fracture, and its converse; separation of the lower epiphysis of the tibia; fractures of the astragalus, os calcis, and other tarsal bones; and fractures of the metatarsals and phalanges. Various dislocations also occur, the most important being those of the ankle-joint, of the astragalus, and the sub-astragaloid dislocation. Surgical Anatomy.—In studying the injuries in the region of the ankle-joint it is of importance to understand the terms which are employed in describing the movements of the foot. Thus by flexion or dorsi-flexion is meant that movement which approximates the dorsum of the foot to the front of the leg ; while extension or plantar flexion means the drawing up of the heel so that the toes are pointed. In inversion the inner edge of the foot is drawn up so that the sole looks inwards, an attitude which is analogous to supination of the hand. In eversion the outer edge of the foot is drawn up, the sole looking out- wards—analogous to pronation of the hand. Adduction indicates the rotation of the foot so that the toes are turned towards the middle line ; while in abduction the toes are turned away from the middle line. The most prominent bony landmarks in the region of the ankle are the two malleoli, the external lying further back, and about half an inch lower than the internal. On the inner side of the foot from behind forward may be felt the internal tuberosity of the os calcis, the sustentaculum tali, which lies about one inch vertically below the tip of the malleolus, the tubercle of the scaphoid, about an inch in front of the malleolus, and at a slightly lower level; the internal cuneiform, and the base, shaft, and head of the first metatarsal. On the outer side may be recognised the external tuberosity of the