334 THE NERVES. appropriate treatment. When the pain is severe the patient is confined to bed and treated by internal remedies, and by external applications, such as fly-blisters or belladonna liniment. In the less severe cases the patient should be encouraged to move about and take regular exercise. Great benefit usually results from bathing, douching, and massage, and from repeated gentle stretching of the nerve. This may be carried out by passive movements of the limb—the hip being flexed while the knee is kept extended ; and by active movements— the patient flexing the limb at the hip while the leg is extended on the thigh. These exercises, which may be preceded by massage, are practised night and morning, and should be practised syste- ; matically by those who are liable to sciatica. In obstinate and severe cases the nerve may he needled, or it may be forcibly stretched. Needling or acupuncture of the sciatic consists in piercing the nerve at intervals in the buttock and down the back of the thigh with long steel needles. Six or eight needles may be inserted and left in position for from fifteen to thirty minutes. The nerve may be stretched under anaesthesia by placing the patient on his back with the hip flexed to a right angle, and then gradually extending the knee until it is in a straight line with the thigh (Billroth). A more effectual method is to expose the nerve through an incision at the fold of the buttock, and forcibly pull upon it. Crawford Renton has pointed out that this operation is most success- > ful when the nerve is involved in adhesions. The general regimen already described is also carried out during the after treatment. Trigeminal Neuralgia.—A severe form of epileptiform neuralgia occurs in one or more branches of the fifth nerve, and is one of the most painful affections with which we have to deal. So far as its pathology is known, it is believed to be of the nature of a neuritis associated with degenerative changes in the Gasserian ganglion. It is met with in adults and develops with- out apparent cause ; it is fortunately very rare. The pain, which occurs in paroxysms, is at first of moderate severity, but gradually becomes agonising. In the early stages the paroxysms occur at wide intervals, but later they recur with such frequency as to be almost continuous. They are usually excited by some trivial cause, such as opening the jaws in eating or speaking, touching the face as in washing, or by exposure to a draught of cold air. Between the paroxysms the patient is free from pain, but is in constant terror of its return, and the face wears an expression of extreme suffering and anxiety. When the