SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONE. 577 infiltrating tubercle is frequently met with. The clinical features are those of a cold abscess, of disease of the adjacent joint or tendon sheaths. When several bones and joints are simul- taneously affected, and there are septic sinuses, amputation is usually indicated, especially in adults. If the disease is less extensive, removal of the diseased bone and other tissues actually infected may suffice. This is oftenest possible in the case of the os calcis; satisfactory results are usually obtained even in cases where the whole interior of the bone has to be cleared out with the gouge and sharp spoon. When the disease is confined to one of the other tarsal bones, such as the internal cuniform or cuboid, it may be excised completely, with little or no impairment of the functions of the foot. Syphilitic Diseases op Bone. Syphilitic diseases of bone result from infection of the marrow and periosteum by the syphilitic virus conveyed to them through the blood stream. They are met with at any period subsequent to the original contagion. The graver forms are chiefly met with in the tertiary stage of syphilis whether acquired or inherited. The virus is carried to all parts of the skeleton, but the actual development of the disease appears to be influenced by some local predisposition on the part of individual bones, and by external factors such as injury. Syphilitic diseases of bone are much less frequently met with in practice than those due to pyogenic and tuberculous infections. They show a marked predilection for certain bones, notably the tibia, sternum, and those of the skull. They differ from pyogenic and tuberculous affections in the frequency with which they affect the shafts of long bones rather than the articular ends, and the consequent rarity of joint complications. In the early stages of acquired syphilis evanescent periostitis is met with during the period of the early skin eruptions. The patient complains, especially at night, of pains over the frontal bone, ribs, sternum, tibiae, and ulnae. There is localised tender- ness elicited on making pressure over the bone, and slight swelling of the periosteum, which rarely amounts to what may be described as a periosteal node. The early superficial lesions usually disappear without leaving any trace of their existence; they may, however, leave localised periosteal thickenings which long remain painful and tender on pressure. In the later stages of acquired syphilis gummatous periostitis and osteomyelitis are occasionally met with. These affections are VOL. I—37