555 ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. Where there is pus in the marrow there is nearly always pus under the periosteum, and the converse is usually true. The sub- periosteal pus makes its way to the surface by the easiest anatomical route, erupts through the skin and discharges externally, forming a sinus. The spread may also tend in the direction of the adjacent joint, by extension under the periosteum and capsule, or through the epiphysis and articular cartilage, or from the periphery of the epiphysial junction, especially if the latter is entirely intra-articular—as is the case, for example, in the hip. While the occurrence of purely periosteal suppuration is admitted, it is the exception in young subjects. When it does occur, and the pus is evacuated, the periosteum comes again into contact with the bone, and recovery is likely to take place with- out necrosis. Changes in the Epiphysis and Ossifying Junction.—When there is marked absorption and destruction of bone at the ossifying junction, the epiphysis is liable to be separated. The separation—epiphysiolysis (Fig. 178) — may take place at the level of the epiphysial cartilage or through the ossifying junction, and the surfaces of the diaphysis and epiphysis are opposed to each other by irregular eroded surfaces bathed with pus. The separated epiphysis may be maintained in contact with the dia- physis by the periosteum, but when this membrane has been detached by the formation of pus beneath it, the epiphysis is liable to become displaced by muscular action or by some movement of the limb. Except in cases where the epiphysis is both separated and displaced, the epiphysial cartilage usually remains intact, and is quite capable of continuing its bone- forming functions. Where it has been seriously damaged, however, the future growth of the bone in length may be interfered with. Necrosis in the epiphysis itself is exceptional, and when it does occur, it is usually partial, in the form of small spongy sequestra; the whole epiphysis may die, however, and separate as a sequestrum; this is best seen in the head of the femur. The adjacent joint may be influenced by the inflammation in the bone in such a way that it becomes filled with a serous effusion similar to that causing oedema in the soft parts. This effusion is usually found on examination to be sterile. When the joint is infected, the lesion assumes the characters of an arthritis, which, from its frequency during the earlier years of life, has been called the acute arthritis of infants. Repair.—This begins when the acute stage of the process has subsided. The periosteum and marrow, wherever they have