FRACTURES OF UPPER END OF THE RADIUS. 461 the fragments without encroaching upon the articular cartilage. The limb is fixed with a splint with the elbow-joint slightly extended. Movement may be commenced in the course of a few days, the angle at which the joint is fixed being changed each day. The patient is allowed to use the joint cautiously within a fortnight. Old-standing Fractures.—When firm union fails to take place the interval between the fragments tends to increase by the contraction of the triceps gradually stretching the inter- mediate fibrous tissue, so that a wide gap comes to separate-the fragments, and the function of the limb is impaired. The best treatment in such cases is to expose the fragments, refresh their edges, and wire them, and if necessary the triceps is lengthened. Fracture of the coronoid process is very rare except as a complication of backward dislocation of the elbow. It may be produced, however, by direct violence as well as by muscular action. As the fracture is usually within a quarter of an inch of the tip, the fibres of insertion of the brachialis anticus tend to prevent dis- placement. In some cases associated with dislocation, however, the small fragment has been so far displaced as Fig. 114.—Fracture of Coronoid Process, to become attached to the back of the condyles of the humerus (Annandale). The ordinary evidences of fracture are seldom present, and the diagnosis is often uncertain. Uncomplicated cases are treated by flexion of the elbow and a sling. Fractures of the Upper End of the Radius. Intra-capsular fracture of the head of the radius may result from direct violence, a fall on the pronated hand, or from forcible pronation or abduction. It may accompany dislocations of the elbow or fracture of adjacent bones. The head may be com- pletely separated, or may be split into two or more fragments. The clinical features are localised pain, crepitus, interference with pronation and supination, and in some cases the fragment may be felt through the skin, although it usually continues to move with the shaft in pronation and supination. Union generally takes place satisfactorily, but in some cases the fragments form new attachments resulting in impaired move- ment of the joint.