184 TUMOURS. useless, the question of amputation may have to be considered. When a cartilaginous tumour takes on active growth, it must be treated as malignant. The chondromata which are met with at the ends of the long bones in children and young adults form a group by themselves. They are usually related to the epiphysial cartilage, and it was first suggested by Virchow that they take origin from unaltered islands of cartilage in the interior of the bone which have not been used up in the process of ossification. They are believed to occur more frequently in those who have suffered from rickets in early life. They tend to undergo ossification concurrently with the epiphysial cartilage from which they take origin, and thus constitute what are known as cartilaginous exostoses. These are sometimes met with in a multiple form, and may occur in several generations of the same family. Tumours in the parotid, submaxillary gland, or testicle are often of the nature of chondro-sarcomata. Osteoma.—An osteoma is a tumour composed of bony tissue and originating from the skeleton. Two varieties are recognised -—the spongy or cancellous and the ivory or compact. The common spongy or cancellous osteoma is really an ossified chondroma, and is chiefly met with at the ends of the long bones of the limbs. From the fact that it projects from the surface of the bone it is often spoken of as an exostosis. It grows very slowly, and rarely causes any discomfort unless it presses upon a nerve trunk. The Rontgen rays may be of assistance in diagnosis. Operative interference is only indicated when the tumour is giving rise to inconvenience. It is then removed, its base or neck being divided by means of the chisel. The bony outgrowth from the terminal phalanx of the great toe—known as the subungual exostosis—is described elsewhere. The ivory or compact osteoma is composed of dense, compact bone, and usually grows from the bones of the skull. It is usually sessile and solitary, and may grow into the interior of the skull, into the frontal sinus, into the cavity of the orbit or nose, or may fill up the external auditory meatus. Bony formations sometimes occur in muscles and tendons, especially at their points of attachment to the skeleton, and are described with the diseases of muscles. Odontoma.—An odontoma is a tumour composed of dental tissues in varying proportions and different degrees of develop- ment, arising from teeth-germs or from teeth still in process of growth (Bland Sutton). Odontomata resemble teeth in so far