709 TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS. and to a less extent of the tibiales anticus and posticus. The extensor tendons on the dorsum are displaced inwards. Clinical Features.—In children who have not walked the degree of deformity varies in different cases. Sometimes it is very slight. In pronounced cases the foot is turned inwards and forms a right angle with the leg; the sole looks backwards and the inner border looks upwards. The foot appears shortened because it is curved on itself, the heel is narrow and more vertical, the inner malleolus is obscured by the approximation of the scaphoid, and the external malleolus is unduly prominent. In extreme cases the supinated foot may form an acute angle with the leg, and there is frequently a deep transverse de- pression across the sole, the result of contraction of the plantar fascia—a distinctive feature of the congenital form of club- foot (Fig. 247). In children who have ivalked the deformity of the foot becomes more pronounced. The dorsum of the foot is markedly uneven, partly because of the prominence of the individual tarsal bones, and especially of the head of the astragalus and greater process of the os calcis, and partly because of a de- pression over the neck of the astragalus. Instead of resting on its outer border, the foot may finally rest on the dorsum, the sole looking upwards and backwards. While the skin over the heel remains comparatively thin and delicate, that covering the outer border and dorsum of the foot becomes the seat of callosities, beneath which adventitious bursse are formed. These bursse are liable to become inflamed, and are then the source of great suffering, and if they suppurate they may cause persistent sinuses. The muscles of the leg and foot, although not paralysed, undergo atrophy from disuse. In walking the patient lifts one foot over the other in an ungainly and laborious manner, as if walking on stilts. In adults these features are still further aggravated, and there are permanent changes in the bones. Prognosis.—The slighter degrees of club-foot may be com- pletely corrected. The severe forms may be improved so as to give the patient a useful limb. The younger the patient, the more easily and completely is the deformity rectified. Treatment.—This should be commenced as soon as the viability of the infant is beyond question. Manipulations directed towards the correction of the deformity should be carried out twice or thrice daily. The limbs should also be massaged and bathed. In the intervals between the manipula- tions, the foot should be maintained in the corrected attitude