649 LOOSE BODIES. or the surgeon may succeed in palpating the loose body and in making it roll beneath the fingers, especially if it be lodged in the supra-patellar pouch in the knee, or on one or other side of the olecranon in the elbow. In most instances the patient has carefully observed his own symptoms, and is aware not only of the existence of the loose body, but of its situation when attached, or of its erratic ajipearance at different parts of the joint when free. When the body contains bone it may be visible in a skiagram. While in some cases the patient attributes his symptoms to an injury, exactly similar phenomena may occur apart altogether from traumatic influences. The treatment consists in opening the joint and removing the loose body. The characters of these loose bodies are remarkably constant. They are usually solitary, about the size of a bean or almond, concavo-convex in shape, the convex aspect being smooth like an articular surface, the concave aspect more often uneven and nodulated. Such bodies when still attached may be lodged in a kind of compartment or excavation in one of the articular surfaces, usually one or other condyle of the femur, from which they may be readily shelled out by means of an elevator. They usually present on section a nucleus or core of spongy bone or of calcified cartilage. As to the origin of these loose bodies, some maintain that they result entirely from the detachment by injury of a portion of the articular surface, while others regard them as overgrowths derived from the synovial membrane. Konig regards them as portions of the articular surfaces which have been detached by a morbid process which he calls “ osteochondritis dissecans.” In a certain number of cases the appearance and structure oi loose bodies would justify the inference that they are of the nature of tumour growths. This is notably the case in the knee- joint, in which cartilaginous or chondro-sarcomatous bodies may be met with similar to the corresponding tumours growing from bones. Displacement of the semilunar' cartilages in the knee is referred to with injuries of that joint.