236 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. some cases the blood pressure gradually distends the injured segment of the vessel wall and produces an aneurysm. Clinical Features.—The pulsation in the vessels beyond the seat of rupture is almost always arrested—for a time at least— owing to the occlusion of the vessel. If the pulsation returns within a week of the injury the presumption is that the occlusion was due to pressure from without—for example, by haemorrhage into the sheath, or the pressure of a fragment of bone. In cases of rupture the pulsation seldom returns within five or six weeks of the injury, if indeed it is not permanently arrested. A good collateral circulation, however, is rapidly established, so that although for a few days the limb may be colder than its fellow, the vascularity is soon restored and the nutrition maintained. Temporary loss of power usually accom- panies the coldness of the limb. In cases of incomplete rupture the indications for treatment are to promote the restoration of the circulation, and to prevent septic infection of the devitalised segment of the limb beyond the rupture. The skin of the parts supplied by the damaged artery must first be thoroughly purified. The limb is then wrapped in cotton wool to conserve its heat, and elevated to such an extent as to promote the venous return without at the same time unduly interfering with the inflow of blood. To regulate the balance of the circulation requires careful adjustment of the limb, and constant supervision is necessary. In the majority of cases of incomplete rupture this expectant treatment yields satisfactory results. If gangrene threatens, however, amputation at the level of the seat of rupture is called for. In more severe cases the rupture is complete—all the coats of the vessel being torn across, so that the blood escapes into the surrounding tissues. This degree of damage to the artery is usually associated with tearing of muscles and ligaments, and is best illustrated by those cases in which the popliteal artery is ruptured in fracture of the femur, or the axillary or brachial artery in fractures of the humerus or dislocations of the shoulder. In addition to the clinical features associated with incomplete rupture, a tense and excessively painful swelling rapidly appears in the region of the injury, and where the cellular tissue is loose it may attain a considerable size. While this swelling is form- ing it may pulsate. In some cases the bleeding does not take place till some hours after the injury, and comes on during the period of reaction from shock. The pressure of the effused