655 THE WRIST-JOINT. Tuberculous disease is chiefly met with in young adults, but may occur at any age. It usually originates in the synovial membrane, but foci are frequently present in the carpal bones, and less commonly in the lower ends of the radius and ulna, and in the bases of the metacarpals. The clinical features are almost invariably those of white swelling which is most marked on the back of the wrist, where it obscures the outlines of the bones and of the extensor tendons. Wasting of the thenar and hypothenar eminences and filling up of the hollows above and beiow the anterior annular ligament render the appearance on the palmar aspect very characteristic. The attitude is one of slight flexion with drooping of the hand and fingers. The fingers become stiff as a result of ad- hesions in the tendon sheaths, and the power of opposing the thumb and fingers may be lost. Pain is usually absent until the articular surfaces become carious, and it is then aggravated by movement. Softening of the ligaments may result in lateral mobility and sometimes in partial dislocation. Abscess formation is a troublesome complication, as it may result in the formation of sinuses, and in infection of the tendon sheaths, especially of those in the palm. The exact localisation of disease in individual bones or joints may be determined by the positions of pain elicited on pressure or movement, by the use of the X-rays and by the situation of sinuses. Treatment.—Conservative measures may be persevered' with over a longer period than in most other joints. The forearm, wrist, and metacarpus are immobilised in the attitude of slight dorsal flexion, by means of a poroplastic or metal splint, while the fingers and thumb are left free to allow of passive movements. To inject iodoform emulsion the needle is inserted immediately below the radial or the ulnar styloid process. Sometimes the carpal bones are so soft that the needle may be made to penetrate them in different directions. Abscess is treated on the usual lines. Excision of the diseased bones and synovial membrane is a satisfactory operation, and usually yields a movable joint at the wrist. It is indicated in cases which resist conservative measures and where the general health calls for early removal of the disease. Other diseases of the wrist are comparatively rare. They include pyogenic affections such as those resulting from septic conditions in the palm of the hand, different types of gonorrhoeal, rheumatic, and gouty affections, and arthritis deformans.