358 THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. Pigmented or Discoloured Scars.—The best-known examples are the blue coloration which results from coal-dust or gun- powder, the brown scars resulting from chronic ulcer with venous congestion of the leg, and the variously coloured scars caused by tattooing. The only satisfactory method of getting rid of the coloration is to excise the scar; the edges are brought together by sutures, or the raw surface covered with Thiersch grafts according to the size of the gap. Hypertrophied Scars.—Scars occasionally broaden out and become prominent. This may prove a source of disappoint- ment after operations on the neck, such as those for goitre or tuberculous glands. Keloid.—This term is applied to the overgrowth of scar tissue when it extends beyond the area of the original wound, and the name is derived from the fact that this extension usually occurs in the form of radiating processes, suggesting the claws of a crab. It is essentially a fibroma or new growth of fibrous tissue, which commences in relation to the walls of the smaller blood-vessels; the bundles of fibrous tissue are for the most part parallel with the surface, and the epidermis is tightly stretched over them. Keloid may attack scars of the most diverse nature, such as those resulting from leech bites, acne pustules, boils or blisters, those resulting from operation or accidental wounds, and those resulting from burns (Fig. 41), especially when situated over the sternum. The scar becomes more and more conspicuous, is elevated above the surface, of a pinkish or brownish-pink colour, and sends out irregular prolongations around its margins. The patient may complain of itching and burning, and of great sensitiveness of the scar, even to contact with the clothing. There would appear to be an inherited predisposition to keloid. It is more frequent in the negro and in those who are, or have been, the subjects of tuberculous disease. Treatvient.—There is a natural hesitation to excise keloid because of the fear of its returning in the new scar. Such return is Very unlikely if it be excised widely and the raw surface covered over with Thiersch grafts. The irritation associated with keloid may be relieved by the application of salicylic collodion or of salicylic and creasote plaster. Epithelioma attacks scars which have repeatedly broken down in individuals who have reached the cancerous age. It has been observed in old people in the scar of a burn sustained in early childhood. It is not disseminated by the lymphatics until it has invaded the tissues outside the scar area. It should