THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 260 This view was held by Virchow, who applied to the condition the term angioma racemosum venosum. It is supported by the fact that in a large proportion of cases the condition is hereditary. Hot only may several members of the same family in succeeding generations suffer from varix, but it is often found that the same vein, or segment of a vein, is involved in all of them. The frequent occurrence of the disease in youth is also a strong indication of its hereditary nature. Little that is certain is known regarding the nature of this defect, but it is probable that it lies in a deficiency in the number, size, and strength of the valves of the affected veins, and in an inherent weakness of the vessel walls. This congenital predisposition may exist without the patient manifesting any of the clinical phenomena associated with varix, and in the majority of cases it is only when some exciting factor comes into operation that these appear. The most common exciting cause of varicosity is increased pressure within the veins, and this may be produced in a variety of ways. In different diseases of the heart, lungs, and liver, for example, the venous pressure may be so raised as to cause a localised dilatation of such veins as are congenitally weak. The direct pressure of a tumour, or of the gravid uterus, on the large venous trunks in the pelvis, may so obstruct the flow as to distend the veins of the lower extremity. It is a common experience that in women the signs of varix date from an antecedent pregnancy. There is abundant evidence that the importance of the wearing of tight garters as a factor in the pro- duction of varicose veins has been much exaggerated, although it must be admitted that this practice is calculated to aggravate the condition when it is once established. It has been proved experimentally that the backward pressure in the veins may be greatly increased by straining, a fact which helps to explain the frequency with which varicosity occurs in the lower limbs of athletes and of those whose occupation involves repeated and violent muscular efforts. There is reason to believe, moreover, that a sudden strain may, by rupturing the valves and so rendering them incompetent, induce varicosity independently of any congenital defect. Prolonged standing or walking, by allowing gravity to act on the column of blood in the veins of the lower limbs, is also an important determining factor in the production of varix. Thrombosis of the deep veins—in the leg, for example—may induce marked dilatation of the superficial veins, by throwing an increased amount of work upon them. This is to be looked