•285 TRAUMATIC ANEURYSM. cutaneous wound or tear, such as is produced by the fragments of a broken bone, or it may be a punctured wound from a stab or cut. Only small wounds of arteries give rise to traumatic aneurysm, as extensive wounds are attended with a sudden and profuse haemorrhage into the cellular tissue which shows no tendency to become limited. These have already been described under ruptured artery. The aneurysm may form soon after the injury is inflicted, and before the wound in the wall cicatrises. Blood slowly escapes into the surrounding tissues, gradually displacing and condensing them, until they form a distinct sac enclosing the effused blood. Towards the periphery the blood coagulates, and, being under considerable pressure, the clot becomes condensed. Less frequently a traumatic aneurysm forms some consider- able time after the injury, from gradual stretching'of the fibrous cicatrix by which the wound in the wall of the artery has been closed. The gradual stretching of this cicatrix results in condensation of the surrounding structures Fig. 52.—Traumatic Aneurysm of Brachial which form the sac, on Artery, in girl set. 16, caused by stab the inner aspect of which wit1’ Pen-'ulife. laminated clot is deposited. A traumatic aneurysm is almost always sacculated, and, so long as it remains circumscribed, has the same characters as a pathological sacculated aneurysm, with the addition that there may be external evidence of a wound. A traumatic aneurysm is very liable to rupture and become diffuse—a change which frequently brings about a cure. The treatment of traumatic aneurysm is governed by the same principles as apply to the pathological varieties. The walls of the artery being healthy, operative measures dealing with the sac and its feeding arteries are safer than in patho- logical aneurysms. Arterio-Venous Aneurysm. Any abnormal communication between an artery and a vein constitutes an arterio-venous aneurysm. Two varieties are recognised—onel in which the communication is direct (aneu- rysmal vnrix) ; the other in which the vein communicates with