INJURIES. 214 than the old spherical balls. Spent shot may merely cause bruising of the sui’face, or they may pass through the skin and lodge in the subcutaneous tissue. A blank cartridge fired at close range may cause a severe wound, and, if black powder is used, leave a permanent bluish- black pigmentation of the skin. Effects of Small-bore Bullets on different Tissues.—When the projectile passes through the soft parts without striking a hone, it makes a small round aperture at the point of entrance, and an exit wound which is very slightly if at all larger—indeed, they can scarcely be distinguished from one another. So minute are these wounds that they may readily be overlooked, especially as they rarely bleed externally. The wounds are smaller than the bullet which produces them, and their size does not appear to bear any constant relation to the range at which they are fired. As a rule no clothing or other foreign body is carried into the wound, and healing by first intention is almost invariable. Shock is comparatively slight, even when the abdomen is perforated, and the patient often feels as if he had been sharply struck with a hammer. In short-range wounds there is usually considerable haemorrhage into the subcutaneous tissues. When the shaft of a long bo7ie is struck the bullet may be much distorted, and as it ploughs its way through the soft parts may inflict severe damage on them. If fired at short range a high-velocity bullet may pierce the bone, or may carry away a segment and project it through the exit wound, which is then much larger than the wound of entrance. In such cases the shaft of the bone is widely fissured and comminuted. Shrapnel bullets, being spherical, cause more comminu- tion but less Assuring than conical bullets. In wounds implicating joints and the cancellous ends of long hones, the bullet drills its way right through the spongy bone doing little damage, and although there may be considerable effusion into the joint the lesion in the bone seldom implicates the articular surfaces. Fragments may be broken off, but the function of the joint is rarely interfered with except as a result of excessive callus formation. Wounds of large hlood-vessels are comparatively common, and fatal haimorrhage may occur. If it be possible to ligature the divided ends of the vessel the limb can usually be saved, as the collateral circulation is rapidly re-established. Primary traumatic aneurysm or arterio-venous aneurysm may result from wounding of the vessels by a bullet; or if the vessel walls be contused these conditions may supervene later. Nerves may he temporarily paralysed by a bullet passing near but without actually touching them. Sometimes a bullet perforates a nerve trunk, making a button-hole through its substance and causing partial loss of function. Even without operation the ultimate results in these conditions are often satisfactory. In other cases the nerve is completely divided, and there may be considerable difficulty in approximating the severed ends. When a nerve is implicated in a cicatrix much benefit results from freeing it by operation, or from resecting the affected portion of the nerve. [Head Injuries.—The impact of a bullet on the skull may be followed by more profound degrees of cerebral concussion than any other form of trauma, and death frequently results from paralysis of the respiratory and cardiac centres.