THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 248 for example, by an abscess burrowing into it, or by sloughing in the sore throat of scarlet fever, or by the pressure of a drainage-tube. As secondary haemorrhage is almost invariably the result of septic processes, it is much less frequent now than it was in pre-antiseptic days. In whatever way the infective material reaches the vessel—whether from suppuration in the wound, from the material used for ligature, or from the blood- stream—it produces an inflammatory softening and disintegra- tion of the occluding clot or young fibrous tissue, and of the vessel wall. The bleeding which takes place when the vessel at length gives way may at first be slight and may stop spontaneously. It soon recurs, however, and as the destructive process progresses, the recurrences become more frequent and the flow more abundant, until eventually a profuse, and it may be fatal, haemorrhage results. The occurrence of slight haemorrhages from a suppurating wound in the vicinity of a large blood-vessel is strongly suggestive of secondary haemorrhage, and should always lead to steps being taken to avoid more serious bleeding, or to deal with it when it occurs. A Petit’s screw tourniquet should be loosely applied to the limb above the wound, and the nurse should be instructed to tighten it up in the event of bleeding taking place, and to summon the surgeon without delay. In most cases, however, it is safer to anticipate serious bleeding by operative measures. Treatment.—If the bleeding is from a moderate-sized vessel, it may be sufficient to wash out the wound with a hot antiseptic lotion, and after sponging it with pure carbolic acid, to plug it tightly with iodoform or double-cyanide gauze. If practicable, the bleeding vessel should be secured by a fresh ligature. When a large vessel is involved and when the wound is badly infected and sloughing, it is safer to ligature the main vessel through a fresh incision well above the wound. Should this fail to arrest the haemorrhage, or should the procedure involve the risk of gangrene, it may be necessary to amputate the limb well above the infected area. Gangrene is more likely to follow ligature of the main vessels of the lower than of the upper extremity under these conditions, although we have our- selves ligatured both the external iliac artery and vein for secondary haemorrhage without inducing gangrene. In situa- tions where proximal ligature is impossible—for example, in the neck, the groin, or the pelvis—firm plugging with antiseptic- gauze may be the only treatment available. Constitutional Effects of Haemorrhage. —The severity of