VARIX—VARICOSE VEINS. 261 upon rather as a compensatory hypertrophy of the superficial vessels than as a true varix. Morbid Anatomy.—As has already been said, varix is chiefly met with in superficial veins, and more particularly in those of the lower extremity—the internal and external saphenous veins. With the exception of the venae comites of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries, the deep veins appear to escape. The whole length of the vein may be affected, but as a rule the disease is confined to one or more segments of it. These segments are not only dilated, but in many cases are also increased in length, so that they become more or less convoluted. The adjacent loops of the convoluted vein often bound together by fibrous adhesions. All the coats are thickened, chiefly by an increased development of fibrous tissue, and in some cases changes very similar to those of atheroma occur. The walls of varicose veins are often exceedingly brittle. In some cases the thickening is uniform, and in others it is irregular, so that here there thin-walled sacs or pouches from the side of the vein (Fig. 45). pouches vary in size from a bean Fig. 45.—Portion of Varicose Vein excised, showing Tortuosity and Unequal Dilatation. to a hen’s egg, the larger forms being called venous cysts, and being most commonly met with in the region of the saphenous opening and of the opening in the popliteal fascia. Such pouches, being ex- posed to injury, are frequently the seat of thrombosis. The essential anatomical lesion is the absence or deficiency of the valves, so that they are incompetent and fail to support the column of blood which bears back upon them. Normally the valves in the femoral and iliac veins and in the inferior vena cava are slightly, if at all, developed, so that in the erect posture the internal saphena receives a large share of the backward pressure of the column of venous blood. The valves may be incompetent although the vein is not dilated. Clinical Features.—Children seldom suffer from varicose veins. The majority of cases are seen in patients between puberty and the age of thirty. The sexes appear to suffer about equally.