614 DISEASES OF JOINTS. when convalescence from scarlet fever is well advanced; this form is favourably influenced by anti-rheumatic remedies, and is sometimes complicated with endocarditis and with chorea. Pneumococcal arthritis is chiefly met with in one of the large joints in adult males, as a primary affection or as a complication of pneumonia. The changes in the joint affected and the clinical features are those common to all acute pyogenic infections, and the differential diagnosis can only be established by aspiration and bacteriological examination of the fluid in the joint. The prognosis is grave because of the frequency of general pneumo- coccal infection and involvement of the serous membranes within the skull or thorax. The treatment of the joint lesion is by early incision and drainage. In measles, diphtheria, smallpox, influenza, and dysentery, joint lesions may occur, but are less frequent than in typhoid or scarlet fever. The joint lesions which accompany acute rheumatism may be provisionally included with the other members of this group. For a description of them the reader is referred to works on medicine. Gonorrhoeal Affections of Joints.—These include all forms of joint lesion associated with gonorrhoeal urethritis or with gonorrhoeal ophthalmia. They may develop at any stage of the gonorrhoea, but are usually met with when the infection has reacheol the posterior portion of the urethra. They have been observed, however, after the discharge has ceased. There is no connection between the severity of the gonorrhoea and the in- cidence of joint disease. The gouty and rheumatic are supposed to be more liable. The sexes are affected with about equal frequency. As a complication of ophthalmia the joint lesions are chiefly met with in infants, and occur more commonly towards the end of the second or during the third week. The joint lesions may be the only evidence of metastatic infection, or they may be part of a gonorrhoeal pyaemia, involving the endocardium, the pleura and the tendon sheaths. The gouococcus is nearly always present in pure culture, and is found with most certainty in the synovial membrane, in which it is first deposited from the blood. It may be impossible to find it in the exudation in the cavity of the joint. In the purulent forms the gonococcus alone may be present, or it may be associ- ated with staphylococci or streptococci. The joint affection is more often monarticular than polyarticular. The order of frequency with which the joints are affected is the knee, elbow, ankle, hip, foot, wrist, shoulder, fingers.