726 THE DEFORMITIES OE THE EXTREMITIES. toe is then similarly rotated (Fig. 255). The flexor and extensor tendons and the sesamoid bones are displaced outwards. The ligaments and other soft parts on the inner side are elongated, while those on the outer side are contracted. In some cases the patient’s chief complaint is of the deformity of the foot and the consequent disfigurement of the boot; in others the complaint is of the pain and disability resulting from the sensitiveness of the joint and of the enlarged bursa over the head of the first metatarsal. The inflamed bursa, which some- times communicates with the joint, may even suppurate and discharge for long periods, and the infection may spread to the joint. The treatment varies with the severity of the deformity. In mild cases a great deal can be done by wearing properly made boots, by wearing stockings with a separate compartment for the great toe or a pad between the great and second toes, by frequent manipulations and exercises of the toes and feet, and by showing the patient how to put the foot to the ground in walking. In more pronounced cases the pain and tenderness must first be got rid of by rest and by soothing applications. At night the attitude of the toe may be corrected by a splint moulded to the inner aspect of the foot to which it is fixed by strips of plaster; the toe is then bandaged to the distal end of the splint. If there is flat-foot, this must receive appropriate treatment. In aggravated cases of long standing, the deformity can only be corrected by operation. This consists either in removing a wedge from the distal end of the first metatarsal bone, or in resecting the articular end of the bone as a whole. A curved incision is made on the inner aspect with its convexity towards the sole; the flap of skin is reflected upwards, the bursa excised, the bone bared of soft parts, and dealt with as may be necessary. If the toe still tends to be abducted, the con- tracted outer portion of the capsule of the joint is divided, the displaced sesamoids are removed, and the tendon of the long extensor may be detached from its insertion into the terminal phalanx and stitched to the fibrous tissues on the inner side of the proximal phalanx. A pad of gauze is inserted into the gap between the first and second toes. Hallux Varus or Pigeon-toe.—This, which is the reverse of hallus valgus, is extremely rare, and is chiefly met with in children in conjunction with other deformities of the foot. It interferes with the wearing of boots. Treatment consists in straightening the toe and retaining it in position by a splint or plaster of Paris. The internal lateral ligament and the tendon