DISEASES OF BONE. 568 the joint becomes stiff as a result of adhesions and the conversion of the articular and inter-articular cartilages into fibrous tissue. Clinical Features.—Pain is the predominating feature ; it is con- tinuous, neuralgic, and deep-seated, with exacerbations, especially at night, when it may become excruciating. The patient’s suffering may have continued over a period of many years, sometimes with intervals during which the pain was absent and he was able to go about his work. On examination, the bone is found to be enlarged. There is usually one spot where there is great tenderness, and this is best elicited by percussing the bone. Elevation of temperature is exceptional. The patient may complain of swelling and stiffness in the adjacent joint, and this may be chiefly responsible for his incapacity to use the limb. The diagnosis is not difficult in typical cases. Sometimes, however, the characteristic pain and tenderness may be absent at the time of examination. In cases in which the patient refers all his complaints to the adjacent joint, and especially if the latter is obviously implicated, the existence of an abscess in the interior of the bone is liable to be overlooked. The results obtained by examination with the X-rays are often misleading, because the sclerosis of the bone around the abscess may give a uniform dark shadow, and thus obscure the appearances of a cavity. Great attention should be paid to the previous history, bearing in mind that a Brodie’s abscess is most frequently met with in young men who have had a previous attack of osteomyelitis. Treatment.—If an abscess is suspected, there should be no hesitation in exploring the interior of the bone. Such an exploration usually relieves the sufferings of the patient, whether there is an abscess or not. The affected segment of bone is exposed by a suitable incision, and the periosteum reflected, the bone is opened up by means of a trephine or chisel, and the presence of an abscess may be at once indicated by the escape of pus. If this procedure fails to strike the abscess, the bone should be drilled or tunnelled in different directions, as it is often difficult to discover because of its relatively small size and the density of the bone surrounding it. Having cleared out the pus and any dead bone, the cavity is scraped and disinfected, and after being packed with iodoform worsted is treated by the open method. In young subjects, if the shaft of the bone is much thickened and distorted, the portion containing the abscess may be resected with every confidence that the periosteum will form new bone in its place. Osteomyelitis which is Chronic from the Outset.—The pyogenic origin of osteomyelitis which is chronic from the outset has only been recognised within recent years. It was formerly confused with syphilis and tubercle, and without bacteriological examination is still difficult to differentiate from these. Like relapsing osteomyelitis, it may assume the form of hyperostosis and sclerosis, of suppurative osteo- myelitis with or without necrosis, or of chronic abscess of bone. Necrosis without suppuration, which was first described by Sir James Paget under the name “quiet necrosis,” is a rare disease, and would appear to be associated with an attenuated form of staphylococcal infection acting over a long period (Tavel). It occurs in adults, being met with up to the age of fifty or sixty, and affects both sexes equally. There may be no discoverable explanation of its occurrence, or, on going into the history, it may be found to date back to some infective disease, such as typhoid, years before. It is characterised by the development, without any apparent cause,