DISEASES OF TENDONS & TENDON SHEATHS. 371 the pectoral muscle in cancer of the breast—or may be derived by metastasis from tumours situated elsewhere. The diagnosis of an intramuscular tumour is made by observing that the swelling is situated beneath the deep fascia, and that it becomes firm and fixed when the muscle is contracted. When the muscle is relaxed, the tumour becomes softer, and can be moved in the transverse axis of the muscle, but not in its long axis. The same remarks apply to a gumma or mass of bone within the muscle. Clinical interest chiefly attaches to that form of slowly growing fibro-sarcoma—the recurrent fibroid of Paget—which is most frequently met with in the muscles of the abdominal wall. A rarer variety is the chondro-sarcoma, which may undergo ossification to such an extent as to be appreciable in skiagrams. In primary sarcoma the treatment consists in removing the muscle. In the limbs the function of the muscle which is re- moved may be retained by transplanting an adjacent muscle in its place. We have carried this out in an ossifying sarcoma of the muscles of the calf by stitching the divided peroneus longus into the tendo Achillis. Hydatid cysts of muscle are very rare. DISEASES OF TENDONS AND OF TENDON SHEATHS. Tendon sheaths have the same structure and function as the synovial membranes of joints, and are liable to the same diseases. Teno - synovitis. — The toxic or infective agent causing inflammation of tendon sheaths is either conveyed to them through the blood - stream,, as in the gouty, gonorrhoeal, and tuberculous varieties, or is introduced directly through a wound, as in the common form of septic teno-synovitis. “Simple ” Teno-synovitis.—In the so-called simple or trau- matic teno-synovitis, although the most prominent etiological factor is a strain or over-use of the tendons, there is some other, probably a toxic, factor in its production, otherwise the affection would be much more common than it is. Only a very small proportion of those who strain or over-use their tendons become the subjects of teno-synovitis. It is usually excited by the excessive use of certain tendons in those who are predisposed by constitutional peculiarity or by the presence of