124 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. Morbid Anatomy. — The central slough is composed of necrosed tissue and altered blood. The surrounding skin is intensely congested and cedematous, and the stratum corneum is raised as a blister from the rete Malpighi. The bacilli are found in the peripheral portion of the slough, in the vesicles, and in the adjacent lymphatics. In man the spleen is not markedly enlarged, and organisms are not found in any numbers throughout the body. Differential Diagnosis.—The occupation of the patient is a valuable guide in diagnosis. An ordinary boil is distinguished from the primary nodule of anthrax by the greater pain which attends its formation, its conical shape, the appearance of the yellow slough at its apex, and by the absence of the black centre and the surrounding ring of vesicles. The same remarks apply to the differential diagnosis from carbuncle. The early appearance of the blebs, their giving place to black crusts, and the intensity of the swelling serve to distinguish anthrax from erysipelas and diffuse cellulitis. Malignant oedema is liable to be confused with a rapidly-spreading malignant pustule. So closely do the local manifestations of the two diseases resemble one another that it is often only by bacterio- logical examination that they can be distinguished. Prognosis.—If left to itself the disease is frequently fatal. The mortality is greatest when the disease attacks the face or neck, and least when the inferior extremity is affected. Opinions differ as to the value of surgical interference. Prophylaxis.—Any wound suspected of being infected by the anthrax bacillus should at once be cauterised with the actual cautery, then sponged over with pure carbolic acid, and dressed antiseptically. Treatment.—Where it is possible, the whole of the affected area should be excised without delay, and the actual cautei’y and pure carbolic acid freely applied to the raw surface. An antiseptic dressing is then applied. When complete excision is impracticable on account of the situation or extent of the disease, or its relation to important structures, the whole of the indurated area should be freely incised, and after clipping away all necrotic tissue with scissors, the raw surface should be cauterised. The subcutaneous injection of strong solutions of carbolic acid or corrosive sublimate has in many cases yielded satisfactory results. It is only fair to state, however, that the experience of other observers seems to indicate that the results obtained by leaving