FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. 425 middle thirds, just where the two natural curves ot the bone meet, and where the supporting muscular and ligamentous attachments are weakest. The fracture so produced is usually oblique from above, downwards and inwards. The sternal fragment may be slightly drawn upwards by the sterno-cleido-mastoid, while the outer fragment falls by the weight of the arm, and the fragments usually overlap to the extent of about half an inch. The shoulder, having lost the buttressing support ol the clavicle, falls in towards the chest wall, narrowing the axillary space, while the weight of the arm pulls it down- ward, and the muscles inserted in the region of the bicipital groove pull it forward. Fracture of the middle third may also result from a direct stroke, such as the recoil of a gun, or from violent muscular contraction, the fracture as a rule being transverse, and the displacement less marked than in fracture by indirect violence. Clinical Features. — The atti- tude of the patient is characteristic (Fig. 88). The elbow is flexed, and is supported by the opposite hand, while the head is inclined towards the affected shoulder to relax the muscles of the neck. Crepitus is elicited on bracing back the shoulders, or on attempting to raise the arm beyond the hori- zontal. These movements also cause pain. Tenderness is elicited on making pressure over the seat of fracture, and also on distal pressure. The sternal fragment almost invariably overrides the acromial, and can usually be palpated through the skin; on measurement the clavicle is found to be shortened. When the fracture is incomplete (green- stick) or transverse the symptoms are less marked. Simultaneous fracture of both clavicles usually results from a severe transverse crush of the upper part of the thorax or from a fall on the outstretched hands. The middle third of the bone is implicated, and there is marked displacement and overriding. Fig. 88.—Recent Fracture of Right Clavicle in Middle Third. Note attitude and prominence of outer end of sternal fragment.