704 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. until the legs are quite straight. Whatever plan is adopted, it must be persevered with for at least six months, until the bones have become rigid. If the child is approaching the age of five or six before it comes under treatment, or if the deformity does not yield to treatment by splints, it is better to straighten the limb by osteotomy, taking precautions, however, to prevent relapse of the deformity until the softness of the bones has entirely disappeared. In adolescent knock-knee the con- ditions are very different from those obtaining in the child. Splints and apparatus—especially such as allow of the patient walking about—are of little or no value. If the deformity is at all marked there should be no hesitation in recommending osteotomy. If the femur is chiefly concerned, it should be divided above the condyles. If the tibia is mainly responsible, it should be divided below the epi- physis, along with the fibula. In case of failure to remedy the de- formity completely by one of these procedures, it should be supplemented or followed by the other. It is very rarely necessary to divide the tendon of the biceps or the ilio-tibial band. The patient gains in height by the operation, but a considerable time usually elapses before his capacity for walking attains the normal standard. j Other forms of genu valgum than those described as resulting from There is a congenital form arising from faulty position of the limbs in utero ; a traumatic form following fracture or epiphysial separation in the region of the knee ; and a paralytic form usually combined with flexion in cases of spastic paralysis. Finally, genu valgum may be a result of osteomyelitis of the lower end of the femur, or of disease in the knee-joint, such as tuberculosis, arthritis deformans, or Charcot’s disease. Genu Varum—Bow-knee.—In this deformity, which is in nearly every respect the converse of genu valgum, the leg joins the thigh at an angle which is open inwards. It is almost Fig. 244.—Bow-knee in Rickety Child. rickets are relatively rare.