145 TUBERCULOUS ABSCESS. liable to be overlooked. Small incisions are only justifiable when an extensive scar would be disfiguring. After removing the pus the walls of the abscess are thoroughly scraped with the ordinary Volkmann spoon or with Barker’s flushing spoon, to get rid of the tuberculous granulation tissue with which they are lined. In using the spoon care must be taken that its sharp edge does not perforate the wall of a vein or other important structure. Any debris which may adhere to the walls is easily removed by rubbing with dry gauze. The oozing of blood from the raw surface left after scraping is arrested by packing the cavity for a few minutes with gauze. After removing the pack- ing, the walls are painted with pure carbolic acid, or iodoform powder may be rubbed into the raw surface. If the abscess is so situated that its cavity can be obliterated by pressure, and if there is no suspicion of septic infection, the wound may be stitched up. If, on the other hand, there is fear of a mixed infection, it is safer to treat it by the open method, packing the cavity with iodoform worsted, which is renewed at intervals as the cavity heals up from the bottom. When the skin over the abscess is red, thin, and about to give way, as is frequently the case when the abscess is situated in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, any portion which is obviously infected with tubercle should be removed with the scissors at the same time that the abscess is incised. In abscesses treated by the open method, when the cavity has become lined with healthy granulations, it may be closed by secondary sutures, or, if the granulating surface is flush with the skin, healing may be hastened by skin-grafting. If the tuberculous abscess does not come under treatment until after it has burst and left a sinus, the procedure will depend on whether or not the sinus has become infected with pyogenic organisms. If not infected, it may be treated with iodoform emulsion ; an olive-shaped nozzle is attached to the syringe, so that the orifice of the sinus may be closed and prevent the immediate escape of the emulsion, which must be forced into the sinus ; the nozzle is withdrawn, and the orifice closed with the finger for ten minutes; it will then be found that only a little clear glycerine escapes; pads of gauze are then applied. The procedure is repeated two or three times a week. Septic sinuses are better laid open, scraped, disinfected, and made to heal from the bottom by the open method. It would appear that exposure to the X-rays may prove of value in the treatment of tuberculous sinuses. In the treatment of a tuberculous abscess it is always neces- VOL. I—10