SUPPURATION. 62 part of the body,—it may be in the region of a compound fracture, in an operation wound, or in the cavity of the uterus. Prognosis.—As the symptoms are due to definite doses of the toxin, the prognosis depends upon the amount already absorbed, the resisting powers of the individual, and the possibility of arresting further absorption. If the decomposing material is at once removed, and if a lethal dose of the poison has not already entered the circulation, the prognosis is good, and the symptoms begin to subside as soon as the supply is cut off. The 'prophylaxis of saprsemia consists in excluding bacteria by every surgical means, and in preventing the accumulation of any material in which they may flourish should they gain an entrance. Treatment.—The first and clearest indication in treatment is the immediate and complete removal of the infected material. The wound must be freely opened, all blood-clot, discharge, or necrosed tissue thoroughly removed, and the area disinfected, by washing with sterilised salt solution, peroxide of hydrogen, or boracic acid. Stronger lotions are to be avoided as likely to depress the tissues on the surface of the wound, and so to interfere with protective phagocytosis. On account of its power of neutralising toxins, iodoform is a useful application in these cases, and is best employed by packing the wound with iodoform gauze, and treating it by the open method, if this is possible. To aid the patient in getting rid of the poison already absorbed, general stimulants are useful. In serious cases alcohol in the form of brandy or whisky, in hourly half-ounce doses; hypodermic injections of ether, strychnine (1 /60th to 1 /30th gr. every hour), or digitalin (1/100th gr. every hour), may be required. The kidneys should be flushed by administering large quantities of bland fluids. The vomiting can sometimes be checked by effervescing drinks such as citrate of caffein, or by dilute hydrocyanic acid and bismuth. In severe cases, and especially when the vomited matter resembles coffee-grounds from admixture with altered blood—the so-called post-operative hsematemesis,—the most certain means of arresting the vomiting is by washing out the stomach. The patient must be fed with nourishing and easily assimilated food. Chronic Saprsemia or Hectic Fever.—Hectic fever differs from acute saprsemia merely in degree. It usually occurs in connection with such tuberculous conditions as bone or joint disease, psoas abscess, or empyema, which have opened externally, and have thereby become infected with pyogenic organisms. It is gradual in its development, and is of a mild type throughout.