593 TUMOURS OF BONE. Tumours of Bone. Primary tumours of bone grow from the marrow, the periosteum, or, in the case of young bones, from cartilage. They are all of the connective-tissue group, and include the varieties known as fibroma, myxoma, lipoma, chondroma, osteoma, myeloma, and sarcoma. Secondary tumours are those which occur in bone, either as a result of metastasis from other parts or by direct spread from adjacent tissues. They are divided according to their seat into periosteal and medullary. Periosteal tumours are usually situated on one side of the bone in the first instance, but they may come to surround it completely. They are bounded externally by the fibrous layer of the periosteum, which is, however, infiltrated and perforated in the case of malignant tumours. Central or medullary tumours usually lead to absorption of the bone in immediate relation to them, while new bone is laid down externally. The bone as a whole may be greatly increased in girth as a result of these processes, and is often described as having been “ expanded ” by the growth in its interior. Whether or not a central tumour invades the investing soft parts depends on the rapidity of the growth of the tumour on the one hand, and on the activity of the periosteum in forming new bone on the other. Primary tumours of bone are usually solitary, but the chondroma, osteoma, myeloma, and sarcoma may be multiple from the outset. It is frequently observed that tumours of bone follow upon injury. The connection between the injury and the develop- ment of the tumour is not established, but it is quite possible that the trauma merely hastens the growth of an already existing tumour, or, on the other hand, it may excite growth in embryonic residues which have resulted from some irregularity in development. Primary Tumours—Osteoma.—This tumour is called an exostosis when it projects from the surface of a bone. Those derived directly from the tissues of the periosteum may be described as membranous exostoses—for example, those of the skull, which are usually dense and compact like ivory ; hence the term ivory exostosis. When derived from hyaline cartilage—for example, those at the ends of the long bones of the limbs—they are known as cartilaginous exostoses. These are invested with a layer or cap of cartilage from which they may continue to grow until the skeleton attains maturity. Because of their VOL. I—38