THE LYMPHATICS. 298 jugular and subclavian veins, but it may open into either of these vessels by one, or by several channels, or the duct may be double throughout its course. There is a smaller duct on the right side—the right thoracic duct. The position of the duct may be altered by the presence of tumours, such as a mass of enlarged glands. In dissections at the root of the neck the duct may be accidentally wounded, and jets of milky fluid- chyle—may at once escape from it. The injury is, however, seldom recognised at the time of operation • more commonly the dressings are found to be soaked with chyle—chylorrhoea. If the wound involves the only existing main duct and all the chyle escapes, the patient may die of inanition ; but if only one of several collateral channels is implicated, the loss of chyle may be of little moment as the discharge usually ceases spontaneously. If the skin wound is sutured and heals, a fluctuating swelling may form beneath the scar, and in course of time gradually disappear. In treating an accidental wound of the duct, if it is not possible to close it with sutures, it should be seized with forceps and ligatured as if it were a bleeding artery. The tissues are then stitched over it and the skin wound accurately closed, so as to obtain healing by first intention. Firm pressure should be applied by dressings and a bandage. Even if the main duct is obliterated, a collateral circulation is usually established. The patient should be fed on a diet rich in fat and egg albumin to promote a copious flow of chyle, and so encourage the establishment of a collateral circulation. A wound of the main lymphatic duct on the right side is of less importance. Subcutaneous rupture of the thoracic duct may result from a crush of the thorax. The chyle escapes and may accumulate in the cellular tissue of the posterior mediastinum and behind the peritoneum, in the pleural cavity (chylo-thorax), or in the peritoneal cavity (chylous ascites). There are physical signs of fluid in one or other of these situations, but the nature of the lesion is only recognised when chyle is withdrawn by the aspirating needle. Diseases of Lymphatic Vessels. Lymphangitis.—Inflammation of lymphatic vessels usually results from the entrance of pyogenic bacteria or their products from some primary source of infection in the skin. This may be a septic wound or a purulent blister, and the streptococcus pyogenes is the organism most frequently present. Lymphangitis