360 THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. forms of onychia occur during secondary syphilis, simultaneously with the skin eruptions, and may prove very obstinate and lead to shedding of the nails. The nails are often markedly affected in inherited syphilis. In addition to general treatment, an ointment containing five per cent, of oleate of mercury should be applied locally. Ingrowing Toe-nail (lateral onychia).—This is more accurately described as an overgrowth of the soft tissues along the edge of the nail. It is most frequently met with in the great toe in young adults of either sex whose feet perspire freely, who wear ill-fitting shoes, and who cut their toe-nails carelessly or tear them with their fingers. Where the soft tissues are pressed against the edge of the nail, the skin is apt to ulcerate and lead to the formation of exuberant granulations and of a discharge which is some- times foetid. There is a good deal of pain, and the patient may be lame and unfitted for work. In mild cases the condition may be remedied by getting rid of any contributing causes and by disinfecting the skin and nail. The nail is then cut in an even circle, and the groove be- tween it and the skin is packed with an antiseptic dusting- powder, such as boracic acid. In exceptional cases it may be necessary to remove one-half of the affected nail, and to prevent a relapse of the affection this must be carried out so that the portion of nail concerned is not reproduced. Subungual exostosis is an osteoma grow- ing from the terminal phalanx of the great toe (Fig. 73). It displaces the nail towards the dorsum, and may cause ulceration of the skin over the most prominent part of the growth. The nail should be re- flected and the tumour removed with the chisel. Malignant disease in relation to the nails is very rare. Squamous epithelioma and melanotic cancer are the forms most likely to be met with. Treatment consists in amputating the digit concerned, and in removing the associated lymphatic glands. Fig. 72.—Ingrow- ing Toe-nail. Fig. 73.—-Subungual Exostosis. (Anatomical Museum of the University of Edinburgh.)