INJURIES. 363 sitting at table, ruptured bis biceps in a sudden effort to catch a falling glass. It would appear that the rupture is brought about not entirely by the contraction of the muscle concerned, but by the contraction of the antagonistic muscles taking place before that of the muscle which undergoes rupture is completed. The violent muscular contractions of epilepsy, tetanus, or delirium rarely cause rupture. Muscles may also be ruptured by a direct stroke or by a crush of the part. The clinical features are usually characteristic. The patient experiences a sudden pain, with a sensation of being struck with a whip, and of something giving way, and sometimes a distinct snap is heard. The limb becomes powerless. At the seat of rupture there is tenderness and swelling, and there may be ecchymosis. As the swelling subsides a gap may be felt between the retracted ends, and this becomes wider when the muscle is thrown into contraction. If left untreated, a narrow, hard, fibrous cord may be felt at the seat of the rupture. Treatment.—The ends are approximated by relaxing the muscle, and the attitude required is maintained by bandages, splints, or special apparatus. Where it is impossible to approxi- mate the ends satisfactorily by these measures, the muscle or tendon is exposed and the ends brought into accurate contact by catgut sutures. This operation of primary suture is most suc- cessful when it is done within five or six days of the accident. Secondary suture after an interval of months is rendered difficult by the retraction of the ends and by their adhesion to adjacent structures. Rupture of the biceps oj the arm may involve the long or the short head, or the belly of the muscle. Most interest attaches to rupture of the long head or of its tendon of origin. There is pain and tenderness in front of the humerus, the patient is unable to abduct or to elevate the arm, and he may be unable to ffex the elbow when the forearm is supinated. The long axis of the muscle, instead of being parallel with the humerus, inclines downwards and outwards. On contraction the belly of the muscle is displaced downwards towards the elbow. The quadriceps extensor femoris is usually ruptured on one or on both sides close to its insertion into the patella, in the attempt to save one’s self from falling backwards. The limb is rendered useless for progression, as it gives way on slight flexion. Treat- ment is conducted on the same lines as in transverse fracture of the patella; in the majority of cases the continuity of the quadriceps should be re-established by suture within five or six days of the accident.