308 THE LYMPHATICS. the glands to be removed, and because of the adhesions to surrounding structures. The skin incision must be sufficiently extensive to give access to the whole of the affected area, and should, whenever possible, be made in the line of the natural creases of the skin. Where glands are to be removed from both anterior and posterior triangles, the best access is obtained by a Z-shaped incision, the upper limb running parallel with the lower jaw, the vertical limb along the sterno-mastoid, and the lower limb parallel with the clavicle. In exposing the glands the common facial and other venous trunks may require to be clamped and ligatured. Care must be taken to preserve the important nerves, particularly the spinal accessory, the vagus, and the phrenic. The inframaxillary branches of the facial, the hypoglossal and its descending branches, and the motor branches of the deep cervical plexus are liable to be injured, and should, if possible, be conserved. In the removal of matted glands beneath the sterno-mastoid it may be necessary to cut this muscle across and to reflect the divided ends upwards and downwards; if the muscle itself is infiltrated with tubercle, it is removed along with the glands. When the glandular mass is closely adherent to the internal jugular vein, the operation is rendered easier by ligaturing the vein at the root of the neck and removing it from below upwards along with the glands (Watson-Cheyne). When the glands are affected on both sides of the neck it may be advisable to allow an interval to elapse rather than to operate on both sides at one sitting. The “scraping” of softened glands and peri-glandular abscesses, although a useful and often a very necessary operation, is not only less certain of permanently curing the patient, because diseased tissue is apt to be left behind, but it is liable to be followed by dissemination of the tuberculous infection, and general tuberculosis. In opening a glandular abscess the in- cision should be large enough to allow of its interior being inspected; it is then possible to introduce the spoon into the various pockets, and especially through the opening in the deep fascia leading down to the gland from which the abscess originated. Success depends on the thoroughness with which all the tuberculous tissue is removed. The wall of the resulting cavity is painted over with pure carbolic acid, and the wound is packed with iodoform worsted. The packing is renewed at intervals until the wound heals. Tuberculous disease in the axillary glands may be met with as a result of extension from the glands in the neck, from tuberculous disease of the mamma, ribs, or sternum, or more