264 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. cysts or pouches, and at acute bends on the vessel, especially when these are situated in the vicinity of the knee, and are sub- jected to repeated injuries—for example, in riding. In a certain proportion of cases, especially in elderly people, the occurrence of thrombosis leads to cure of the condition by the thrombus becoming organised and obliterating a portion of the length of the vein. Phleboliths sometimes form in such thrombi. Treatment.—At best the treatment of varicose veins is only palliative, as it is obviously impossible to restore to the vessels their normal structure. The indications in treatment are to favour the venous return, and to prevent the condition becoming aggravated. In early and mild cases these indications may be met by non- operative measures. The patient must avoid wearing anything, such as garters, which constricts the limb, and any obvious cause of direct pressure on the pelvic veins, such as a tumour, persistent constipation, or an ill-fitting truss, should be removed. Cardiac, renal, or pulmonary causes of venous congestion must also be treated, and the functions of the liver regulated. Severe forms of muscular exertion and prolonged standing or walking are to be avoided, and the patient may with benefit rest the limb in an elevated position for a few hours each day. To support the distended vessels a closely woven silk or worsted stocking, or a light and porous form of elastic bandage, applied as a puttee, should be worn. These appliances should be put on before the patient leaves his bed in the morning, and should only be removed after he lies down again at night. In this way the vessels are never allowed to become dilated. Elastic stockings, and bandages made entirely of indiarubber, are to be avoided. In aggravated cases, where the patient is suffering pain, where bleeding or ulceration has occurred or is threatening, operative treatment is called for. Operation is also indicated when the occupation of the patient is interfered with by repeated attacks of phlebitis, and when there are large pouches on the veins. The younger the patient the clearer is the indication to operate. Even when the condi- tion causes the patient no trouble at all, it may be necessary to operate to enable him to enter any of the public services. The operation of Trendelenburg is that most suitable when the trunk of the internal saphena vein is alone involved. It consists in exposing three or four inches of the vein in its upper part, applying a ligature at the upper and lower ends of the exposed portion, and after carefully tying all tributary branches, resecting this portion of the vein. It is important to include in