ANEURYSMS OF INDIVIDUAL ARTERIES. 287 ANEURYSMS OF INDIVIDUAL ARTERIES. After wliat has been said of aneurysm in general, it is only necessary to refer very briefly to the more salient points bearing on aneurysms as they occur in individual arteries. To avoid repetition, it may be stated that in the treatment of all aneurysms local measures are supplemented by the employment of the general constitutional treatment already described. It may also be assumed that while the measures mentioned as suitable to each of the special aneurysms are to be preferred, circumstances may make it necessary to have recourse to one of the other procedures already mentioned. No hard-and-fast rules can be laid down for the treatment of a condition which varies so widely in different cases. Thoracic Aneurysm.—The arch of the aorta is the most common seat of aneurysm, but surgical treatment is rarely called for. All varieties of aneurysm occur in the aorta, the fusiform being the most common. Frequently a sacculated aneurysm springs from a fusiform dilatation. Dissecting aneurysm occurs with greater frequency in the aorta than in any other vessel. The clinical features depend chiefly on the direction in which the aneurysm enlarges, and are not always well marked even when the swelling is of considerable size. They consist in a pulsatile swelling—sometimes in the episternal notch, but usually towards the right side of the sternum—with an increased area of dulness on percussion. Pain is usually a prominent symptom, and is largely referable to the pressure of the aneurysm on the vertebral column or the sternum, causing erosion of these boues. Pressure on the thoracic veins or on the air-passages may cause cyanosis and dyspnoea. When the oesophagus is pressed upon, dysphagia may result. The left recurrent laryngeal nerve may be stretched or pressed upon as it hooks round the arch of the aorta, and hoarseness of the voice and a characteristic “ brassy ” cough may result from paralysis of the muscles of the larynx which it supplies. The vagus, the phrenic, and the spinal nerves may also be pressed upon. When the aneurysm is on the transverse part of the arch the trachea is pulled down with each beat of the heart—a clinical phenomenon known as the “tracheal tug.” Aneurysm of the descending thoracic aorta may, after having eroded the bodies of the vertebrae and posterior portions of the ribs, form a