508 INJU11IES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. any case, the attempt does good by breaking down adhesions, provided no undue force is employed such as may damage the sciatic nerve or vessels, or fracture the neck of the femur. In young subjects, in whom the deformity is great and the useful- ness of the limb seriously impaired, the head of the bone should be excised; but if the head has formed a new socket for itself and there is a fairly useful joint, the condition should be left alone. Congenital Dislocations of the Hip are described with deformities. Sprains of the hip are comparatively rare. They result from milder degrees of the same forms of violence as pro- duce dislocation. The ligaments are stretched or partially torn, and there is considerable effusion of fluid into the joint. Pressure over the joint elicits tenderness; and the limb assumes the position of slight flexion, abduction and external rotation, but there is no alteration in the length of the limb. Such injuries, unless carefully treated, are apt to be followed by stiffness of the joint due to the formation of adhesions. Contusions in this region, on the other hand, are not un- common. They are produced by a fall on the trochanter such as may cause fracture of the neck of the femur in old people, and give rise to symptoms which simulate to some extent those of this fracture. The limb lies in the position of slight flexion, but the bony points retain their normal relationship to one another, and there is no actual shortening. The swelling and tenderness often prevent a thorough examination being made, and when any doubt remains as to the diagnosis, the patient should be kept in bed till the doubt is cleared ujx If a fracture has occurred it will reveal itself in the course of a few days by the occurrence of shortening and other evidences of fracture. In elderly patients contusions of the hip may be followed by changes in the joint of the nature of those described as arthritis deformans; and it has been stated, although proof is wanting, that absorption of the neck of the femur sometimes occurs. These injuries are treated by rest in bed, massage, and the other measures already described as applicable to sprains and con- tusions. Fractures op the Shaft of the Femur. This group includes all fractures between that immediately below the trochanter minor and the supra-condylar fracture.