41G INJURIES OF JOINTS. strength of the different groups of muscles acting upon the bone which is displaced. Violence applied directly to the joint is a much less frequent cause of dislocation. In this way, however, the knee-joint may be dislocated, one bone being driven past the other—for example, by a kick from a horse ; or the acromio-clavicular joint by a blow on the shoulder. Muscular contraction is not often the sole cause of disloca- tion, although, as we have seen, it plays an important role in the production of the majority of these injuries. The shoulder, lower jaw, and patella are, however, not infrequently displaced by muscular action alone. Some acrobats are able to dislocate certain joints by the voluntary contraction of muscles. Age and Sex.—Dislocations occur most frequently in males during adult life, doubtless on account of the nature of their occupations and recreations. In children the epiphyses are separated, and in old people the bones are broken, by such forms of violence as cause dislocation in adults. Muscular debility and undue laxness of ligaments resulting from disease or previous dislocation are also predisposing factors. Clinical Varieties.—The separation between the bones may be complete ox partial. When partial, portions of the articular surfaces remain in apposition, and the injury is known as a sub-luxation. Like fractures, dislocations may be simple or compound, the latter being specially dangerous on account of the risk of septic infection. When seen within a few days of its occurrence, a dislocation is looked upon as recent; but when several weeks or months have elapsed, and the rent in the capsule has healed round the neck of the bone, it is spoken of as an old-standing dislocation. The latter will call for special mention later. Dislocations, like fractures, may be complicated by injuries to large blood-vessels or nerve trunks, by injuries to internal organs, or by a wound of the soft tissues which does not com- municate with the joint. Further, a fracture may coexist with a dislocation. Clinical Features.—The most characteristic signs of disloca- tion are preternatural rigidity, or want of movement where movement should naturally take place, following immediately on an injury; and deformity, the part being “out of drawing” as compared with the uninjured side (Fig. 97). The deformity is characteristic and common to all examples of the same dis- location. The bony landmarks lose their normal relationship