180 TUMOURS. merely pusli aside and compress adjacent parts, and they present no tendency to ulcerate and bleed unless the overlying skin or mucous membrane is injured from without. They form no attachment to adjacent parts except as a result of accidental inflammation. Although usually solitary, some of them may be multiple from the outset—for example, fatty, fibrous, and bony tumours, warts, and fibroid tumours of the uterus. They produce no constitutional disturbance, wasting, or cachexia. They only threaten life when growing in the vicinity of vital organs, and there merely in virtue of their situation. For example, death may result from an' innocent tumour in the air-passages causing suffocation, in the intestine causing obstruction of the bowels, or in the spinal canal causing pressure on the cord. Malignant tumours usually show a marked departure from the normal structure and arrangement of the tissues of the body. They grow more rapidly than innocent tumours, and they tend to infiltrate their surroundings by sending out prolongations or offshoots into the surrounding tissues. They are therefore very liable to recur after an operation which is restricted to the removal of the main tumour. They are not encapsulated, although they may appear to be circumscribed by condensation of the surrounding tissues. They are rarely multiple at the outset. They show a marked tendency, however, to spread to other parts of the body. Fragments of the parent tumour may become separated and be carried off in the lymph or blood-stream and deposited in other parts of the body, where they give rise to secondary growths. Malignant tumours tend to invade and destroy the overlying skin or mucous membrane, and thus give rise to bleeding ulcers ; if the tumour tissue protrudes through the gap in the skin, it is said to fungate. They may give rise to a condition of general ill-liealth or cachexia, the patient becoming pale, sallow, feverish, and emaciated, probably as a result of chronic poisoning from the absorption of toxic products from the tumour. They ultimately destroy life, it may be by their local effects, such as ulceration and haemorrhage, by favour- ing the entrance of septic infection, by interfering with the function of organs which are essential to life, by cachexia, or by a combination of these effects. It may be added that the situation of a malignant tumour exercises considerable influence on the rapidity, as well as on the mode, in which it causes death. Some cancers, such as that known as “ rodent,” show malignant features which are entirely local, while others, such as melanotic cancer, exhibit a malignancy characterised by’ a rapid generalisation of tumour growths '