402 INJURIES OF BONES. closing such wounds, but rather to drain or partially pack them, counter-openings being made at dependent points if necessary. In other respects the treatment of compound fractures is carried out on the same lines as in simple fractures, provision being made for the dressing of the wound, when this is required, without undue disturbance of the bones. Massage and move- ment should be commenced as soon as the wound is healed. Question of Amputation in Compound Fractures.—Before deciding to perform primary amputation of a limb for compound fracture the surgeon must satisfy himself (1) that antiseptic purification is impossible, or, at least, hardly to be expected ; (2) that the soft parts are so widely and so grossly damaged that their recovery is improbable ; (3) that the vascular and nervous supply of the parts beyond has been rendered insufficient by destruction of the main blood-vessels and nerve trunks ; (4) that the bones have been so shattered as to be beyond repair; and (5) that the limb which will be left will be less useful than the stump resulting after a suitable amputation. In attempting to save the limb of a young subject it is justifiable to run risks which would not be permissible in the case of an older person. To save an upper limb, also, risks may be run which would not be justifiable in the case of a lower limb, because, while a serviceable artificial leg can readily be procured, any portion of the natural hand or arm is infinitely more useful than the best substitute which the instrument-maker can contrive. The risk involved in attempting to save a limb should always be explained to the patient or his friends, in order that they may share the responsibility in case of failure Whether or not the amputation should be performed at once depends upon the general condition of the patient. If the injury is a severe one, and attended with a profound degree of shock, it is better to wait for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Meanwhile the wound is thoroughly purified, and the limb wrapped in an antiseptic dressing. Means are taken to counter- act the shock and to maintain the patient’s strength, and evi- dence of septic infection or of haemorrhage is carefully watched for. When the shock has passed off and the patient is able to stand the operation, it is then performed under more favourable auspices. Clinical experience proves that by this means the mortality of primary amputations may be materially diminished, especially in injuries necessitating removal of an entire limb. Having decided to amputate, it is important to do so at such a level as will avoid having bruised, torn, or separated tissues in the flaps, as these are liable to slough or to become the seat of