413 SPRAIN'S. of the process, but also to the life of the patient from septic absorption, and, it may be, from the subsequent onset of pyaemia. Penetration of the joint may sometimes be recognised by the escape of synovial fluid from the wound, or by the synovial membrane or articular cartilage being exposed. When doubt exists, the wound should be enlarged. The use of the probe is to be avoided, on account of the risk of carrying septic material from the track of the wound into the cavity of the joint. Penetrating wounds of joints are treated on the same lines as those associated with compound fractures. After having been thoroughly disinfected, the wound should be drained or treated by the open method, and as soon as it is healed, massage and movement should be employed to prevent the formation of adhesions and consequent stiffness. Sprains. — A sprain results from a stretching or twisting form of violence which causes movement of the joint beyond its physiological limits, or in some direction for which it is not structurally adapted. The main incidence of the force therefore falls upon the ligaments, which are suddenly stretched or torn, admitting, it may be, of a partial and temporary displacement of the bones. The synovial membrane is also liable to be damaged, and the joint may be filled with blood and serum extravasated from the torn tissues. Muscles and tendons may be stretched, torn, or dislocated, and their sheaths filled with serous effusion. It is not un- common for superficial portions of bone to be torn oft' at the site of attachment of strong ligamentous bands or tendons, constituting a “ sprain fracture ”; or for intra-articular cartilages to be displaced, as in the knee. Clinical Features.—The injury is accompanied by intense sickening pain, and this may persist for a considerable time. At first it is aggravated by moving the joint, but if the move- ment be continued it tends to pass off. The particular ligaments involved may be recognised by eliciting tenderness on making pressure over them, or by putting them on the stretch by passively moving the joint. In this way a sprain may often be diagnosed from a fracture. The effusion of blood and serum into the joint and the tissues around it give rise to swelling and discoloration, and there is tenderness on pressing the articular surfaces together. There is no marked elevation of temperature in the affected joint. Fluid effused into tendon sheaths often produces a peculiar creaking, which may be mistaken for the crepitus of fracture. When the swelling is great, it is often necessary to have recourse to the