195 VARIETIES OF CANCER. occurs at an early stage, and is not evident on examination, a very wide area must be included in the operation. The organ from which the original growth springs should, if practicable, be altogether removed, because its lymphatic vessels generally communicate freely with each other, and secondary deposits have probably already taken place in various parts of it. In addition, the nearest chain of lymphatic glands must also be removed, even though they may not be noticeably enlarged, and in some cases—in cancer of the breast, for example—the intervening lymphatic vessels should be removed at the same time ” (Watson- Cheyne). Varieties of Cancer. Different varieties of cancer are distinguished according to the character and arrangement of the epithelial cells concerned in their formation. The squamous epithelial cancer or epithelioma originates from surfaces covered by squamous epithelium, such as the skin, and the mucous membrane of the mouth and gullet, larynx, bladder, and external genitals. The epithelial columns which constitute the cancer retain the characters of squamous epithelium, and being confined within the lymphatic spaces of the sub-epithelial connective tissue, they become compressed and undergo a horny change. This results in the formation of concentrically laminated masses known as “cell nests” or “epithelial pearls.” The clinical features are usually those of a slowly-growing, indurated tumour which nearly always ulcerates ; there is a characteristic induration of the edges and floor of the ulcer, and its surface is often covered with warty or cauliflower-like outgrowths. The infection of the lymphatic glands is remark- ably early and constant, and constitutes the most dangerous feature of the disease; the secondary growths in the glands exhibit the characteristic induration, and may themselves break down into ulcers. Epithelioma frequently originates in long-standing ulcers or sinuses, and in scars, and probably results from the displace- ment and sequestration of epithelial cells during the process of cicatrisation. The columnar epithelial cancer or columnar epithelioma origi- nates in mucous membranes covered with columnar epithelium, and is chiefly met with in the stomach and intestine. It is sometimes described as a malignant adenoma, because of its close structural resemblance to the innocent adenoma. Its