NEUROMATA. 323 the nerve roots within the spinal canal. Clinically the origin of these swellings from nerves is recognised by their position in the line of a nerve, by the fact that they are movable in the transverse axis of the nerve but not in its long axis, and by their being painful and sensitive. Treatment.—-If they cause much suffering they should be removed, preferably by shelling them out from the investing nerve sheath or\ capsule. If the nerve is damaged the portion to which the tumour is attached should be resected and the ends sutured. In the subcutaneous nodule the nerve is rarely re- cognisable, and is usually sacrificed. The malignant neuroma is really a sarcoma growing from the sheath of a nerve. It has the same characters and clinical features as the innocent neuroma, only it grows more rapidly, and by destroying the nerve fibres it causes motor symptoms— jerkings followed by paralysis. The sarcoma tends to spread along the lymphatic spaces of the affected nerve trunks, as well as to implicate the surrounding tissues, and is liable to give rise to secondary growths. The malignant neuroma is chiefly met with in the great sciatic and other large nerves of the limbs. The best treatment is to amputate the limb well above the growth, as mere removal of the tumour is usually followed by recurrence. In hopeless cases it may be possible to relieve pain by excising a portion of the nerve above the tumour, or, where this is impracticable, by resecting the posterior nerve roots and their ganglia within the spinal canal. The so-called amputation neuromata have already been referred to. Diffuse or Generalised Neuro-Fibromatosis—Elephantiasis Nervorum.—These terms are now used to include what were formerly known as “multiple neuromata,” as well as certain other overgrowths related to nerves. The essential lesion is a diffuse or a generalised overgrowth of the endoneural connective tissue throughout the nerves of both the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic systems. The nerves are diffusely and unequally thickened, so that small twigs may become enlarged to the size of the median, while at irregular intervals along their course the connective-tissue overgrowth is exaggerated so as to form tumour-like swellings very similar to the trunk neuromata already described. The tumours, which vary greatly in size and number,—as many as a thousand or more having been counted in one case,—are enclosed in a capsule derived from the nerve sheath. The fibromatosis may also affect the cranial nerves, the ganglia on the posterior nerve roots, the nerves within the