368 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. the correction of any gouty or rheumatic tendencies that may be present. The patient must persevere with movements and exer- cises, excepting those which specially excite the pain, and must avoid exposure to cold when heated. Great benefit may be derived from massage, and from the use of the battery, especially in cases in which the nerves are involved. In severe cases of lumbago, exercises are out of the question until the excessive pain and helplessness have been overcome by the application of heat, as by a hot-bottle or mustard poultice. Cupping or needling, or, in exceptional cases, hypodermic injections of antipyrin or morphin may be called for. To prevent relapses of lumbago, the patient must take systematic exercises of all kinds, especially those which bring out the movements of the spinal column and hips, such as cycling. Contracture of Muscles.—Permanent shortening of a muscle may result from the prolonged approximation of its points of attachment, or from structural changes in its substance produced either by injury or by disease. It is a frequent accompaniment, and sometimes a cause of certain deformities, in the treatment of which division of the contracted muscle or muscles may be an essential step. An aggravated form of contracture sometimes follows upon the prolonged ansemia of muscles, such as is caused by tight bandaging or the use of the elastic tourniquet— Volhnann’s ischcemic paralysis. In the upper extremity the muscles of the forearm undergo degeneration, and by contracting cause a claw- like deformity of the hand and fingers. The tendons of the contracted muscles may require to be divided and lengthened. Myositis.—Various forms of inflammation of pyogenic origin are met with in muscle, most frequently in relation to pyaemia and to typhoid fever. These may result in overgrowth of the connective-tissue framework of the muscle and degeneration of its fibres, or in suppuration and the formation of one or more abscesses in the muscle substance. Repair may be associated with contracture. An evanescent form of myositis, attended with considerable pain, may be met with as a result of gonorrhoea. In the early secondary period of syphilis, the muscles may be the seat of dull, aching, nocturnal pains, especially in the neck and back. Reference must also be made to what is known as syphilitic contracture, a condition which has been chiefly observed in the later secondary period. The biceps of the arm, and the hamstrings in the thigh, are those most commonly affected. The striking feature is a gradually increasing difficulty of ex- tending the limb at the elbow or knee, and progressive flexion