604 DISEASES OF BONE. a painful form of paraplegia which may involve the lower, or all four extremities. On the other hand, the disease may show itself clinically as a tumour of bone, which may be of consider- able size, and may be mistaken for a primary sarcoma, unless the existence of the original cancer is discovered. The cancers most liable to give rise to metastasis in bone are those of the breast, liver, uterus, prostate and intestine. Secondary tumours derived from the thyroid gland require special mention, because they are peculiar in that neither the primary growth in the thyroid nor the secondary growths in the bones are necessarily malignant. They may therefore be amenable to surgical treatment. Secondary sarcomata, whether derived from primary growths in the bones or in the soft parts, are very much rarer than secondary cancers. They are of little clinical importance, as, with isolated exceptions, they are quite out of the range of operative treatment. Cancer of Bone resulting from Direct Extension from adjacent Soft Parts.—In this group the bone is involved by the spread of the cancer in the same way as any other tissue. There are two clinical types. The first is met with in relation to epitheliomata of mucous surfaces—for example, the palate, gums, antrum, frontal sinus, auditory meatus, and middle ear. They will be described under these special regions. The second is met with in relation to epithelioma occurring in a sinus, the sequel of suppurative osteomyelitis or compound fracture. The patient has usually had a discharging sinus for a great number of years. The epithelioma originates at the external or skin orifice of the sinus, and spreads down to the bone and into its interior. Inside the bone the progress of the cancer is resisted by the general sclerosis and obliteration of the medullary canal; and although its progress is slow, the infiltration of the bone is often more extensive than would appear externally. It is recognised clinically by the characteristic epitlieliomatous growth in the sinus and its vicinity, and by the offensive nature of the discharge. A similar epithelioma may arise in connection with a chronic ulcer of the leg. The cancer may infect the femoral lymphatic glands. The operative treatment is influenced by the extent of disease in the soft parts overlying the bone, and consists accordingly in wide removal of the diseased tissues, or in amputation. Cysts of Bone.—With the exception of hydatid cysts, which have been already considered, cysts in the interior of bone are usually the result of the liquefaction of such tumours as chon- droma, myeloma, or sarcoma.