278 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. important structures adjacent to it, by causing syncope, by rupture, or from the occurrence of suppuration. Pressure symptoms are usually most serious from aneurysms situated in the neck, thorax, or skull. Sudden fatal syncope is not in- frequent in cases of aortic and other large aneurysms. Rupture may take place through the skin, into the cellular tissue, or into a mucous or serous cavity. The first haemorrhage is often comparatively slight and stops naturally, but it soon recurs, and is so profuse, especially when the blood escapes externally or into a large cavity, that it rapidly proves fatal. When the bleeding takes place into the cellular tissue the aneurysm is said to become diffused, and the extravasated blood may spread widely through the tissues, exerting great pressure, and sometimes causing gangrene of the parts beyond from arrest of their blood-supply. The clinical features associated with rupture of an aneurysm are sudden and severe pain in the part, while the patient becomes pale, cold, and faint. If a comparatively small escape of blood takes place into the tissues, the sudden alteration in the size, shape, and tension of the aneurysm, together with a loss of pulsation, may be the only local signs. When the bleeding is profuse, however, the parts in the neighbourhood of the aneurysm become greatly swollen, livid, and cold, and the characteristic signs of aneurysm at the same time disappear completely. The limb beyond the aneurysm becomes congested, swollen, and cedematous, and the pulses as a rule are completely lost. The arrest of the blood-supply may result in gangrene. Sometimes the pressure of the extravasated blood causes the skin to give way and fatal haemorrhage results. Suppuration may occur in the vicinity of an aneurysm, either before or after rupture, as a result of infection with pyogenic bacteria. The signs of acute inflammation and suppuration are superadded to those peculiar to the aneurysm. The aneurysm may burst into the abscess, so that when the latter points the pus is mixed with broken-down blood-clot, and finally free haemorrhage takes place. It has more than once happened that even the most eminent surgeons have incised such abscesses without having recognised their association with aneurysm, with the most tragic results. Treatment.—The numerous surgical measures employed in the treatment of aneurysm are all designed to imitate the process of natural cure, which has already been described. In treating a case of aneurysm the indications are: to promote the coagulability of the blood, and so to favour the