364 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. The tendo Achillis is comparatively easily ruptured, and if the symptoms are not well marked the injury may be overlooked. The limb should be put up with the knee flexed and the toes pointed. This may be effected by attaching one end of an elastic band to the heel of a slipper, and securing the other end to the lower third of the thigh. If this is not satisfactory, the ends may be approximated by sutures. Partial rupture of muscle is produced in the same w7ay, and affects the same muscles, as complete rupture. There is pain and tenderness increased by movement, and there may be an appreciable gap in the continuity of the muscle, which, however, does not show the same tendency to increase when the muscle conti’acts as it does when the rupture is complete. The treatment consists in rest and massage, followed by movements and exercises calculated to restore the functions of the muscle. Hernia of Muscle.—This is a rare condition, in which the fascia covering a muscle becomes stretched or torn, and the muscular substance is protruded through the rent, constituting a hernia. It has been chiefly observed in the adductor longus of those who are learning to ride. The patient exhibits an oval swelling in the upper part of the thigh, which is soft and prominent when the muscle is relaxed, is less prominent when it is passively extended, and becomes small and hard when the muscle is thrown into contraction. It may cause no incon- venience, or may be associated with a feeling of weakness and of being easily tired. It is liable to be mistaken, according to its situation, for a tumour, a cyst, a pouched vein, or an abdominal hernia. In some cases no treatment is called for. If it is causing inconvenience, the muscle is exposed by a suitable incision, and if there is a rent in the sheath this may be closed by sutures after reducing the hernia. If this is impossible the herniated portion of muscle is excised. Dislocation of Tendons.—Tendons which run in grooves may be displaced as a result of the rapture of the confining sheath. This injury is chiefly met with in relation to the tendons at the ankle and in the long tendon of the biceps. Dislocation of the />ero?ief tendons may be met with—for example, in a patient who has recently sustained a violent twist of the foot. There is severe pain and considerable swelling in the region of the outer ankle; the peroneus longus by itself, or together with the brevis, is found lying on the outer aspect or in front of the external malleolus; the patient is unable to move the foot. By a little manipulation the tendons are replaced in their grooves, and are retained there by a series of strips