590 DISEASES OF BONE. into the marrow are responsible for the pigmentation, and for the presence of ill-defined cysts filled with brown or yellow fluid. In extreme cases the shafts of the long bones come to resemble membranous tubes which may be bent or twisted in any direction. Clinically, the condition may not be recognised until the pelvis is found to be contracted when it is examined in relation to pregnancy or child-birth. As a rule, however, the patient complains of shooting pains in the lower part of the back, weakness of the lower limbs, and of being unable to sit. The bones may be tender on pressure, and the knee jerks are usually increased. When the spinal column is affected the patient may lose a foot or more in height within a few weeks. There may be a peculiar waddling gait from curving of the neck of the femur on both sides, and inability to flex the thigh and lift the foot from the ground. The gross changes in the skeleton vary with the stage and extent of the disease, and with the habits and attitudes of the patient, and need not be described in detail. The student is referred to text-books on mid- wifery for a description of the important changes which take place in the pelvis. If recovery ensues, abundant new bone is formed in place of that which has been lost, the bones regain their rigidity, and the existing deformities become permanent. The disease, however, may last for years, or may break out afresh with later pregnancies. The patient may become a helpless cripple, confined to bed and liable to succumb to intercurrent complications or to the results of difficult child- birth. The diagnosis is only difficult in the early stage of mild cases, in which the marked weakness of the lower extremities and exaggera- tion of the knee jerks may suggest a resemblance to certain lesions of the spinal cord. Careful measurement should be made of the stature and of the diameters of the pelvis. In well-developed cases the bones do not give the usual shadow when examined with the Rontgen rays. The cause of the disease is unknown ; it has been suggested that it is the result of an affection of the central nervous system, probably beginning in the nerve cells of the anterior cornua of the cord. Treatment.—Measures directed towards improving the general health should be persevered with. The administration of phosphorus dissolved in cod-liver oil is generally recommended. Removal of the ovaries, as suggested by Fehling in 1886, is usually followed by the relief of symptoms and arrest of the progress of the disease, and should therefore be had recourse to when other treatment has failed. Neuropathic Forms of Osteomalacia.—In certain chronic diseases of the brain or cord, changes in the skeleton of the nature of osteomalacia may be met with. It is at present unknown w'hy in certain cases the bones may lose their lime salts and bend, while in others they become porous and brittle. The senile form of osteomalacia is apparently also of nerve origin. Osteomalacia associated with New Growths in the Skeleton.—Reckling- hausen and others have described cases in which the marrow is trans- formed into a white fibrous tissue which may be the seat of haemorrhages and cysts along with the development of giant-celled tumours or myelo- mata scattered throughout the skeleton. This condition is usually associated with multiple fractures. There is also a form of osteomalacia associated with secondary cancer when this is widely diffused throughout the skeleton. Osteitis Deformans—Paget’s Disease of Bone.—This rare and interest- ing disease,was first described by Sir James Paget in 1877. The changes