SUEGERY OF THE INDIVIDUAL NERVES. 329 the triceps and anconeus may also suffer. There is a character- istic “drop-wrist”; the wrist is flexed and pronated, and the patient is unable to dorsiflex the wrist or fingers (Fig. 60). If the hand and proximal phalanges are supported, the second and third phalanges may be partially extended by the interossei and lumbricals. There is also considerable impairment of power in the muscles which antagonise those that are paralysed, so that the grasp of the hand is very feeble, and the patient almost loses the use of it. Treatment.—The slighter forms of injury by compression recover under massage, douching, and electricity. In the more severe forms associated with fracture of the humerus, and attended with the reaction of degeneration, it is necessary to cut down upon the nerve and free it from the pressure of a fragment of bone or from callus or adhesions. If the nerve is torn across, the ends must be sutured, and if there is a wflde gap between them it may be necessary to resect a portion of the humerus to obtain apposition. If the central end cannot be found or if the gap is very great, the peripheral end may be grafted into the median nerve. Finally, in cases where the paralysis is permanent and in- curable, the disability may be relieved by the transplantation of tendons. The healthy flexor carpi ulnaris is divided, its central end drawn underneath the extensor of the same name, and grafted into the common extensor of the fingers. Similarly the. flexor carpi radialis may be divided and drawn beneath the first two extensors of the thumb, and grafted into the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis. After this procedure the patient may recover the use of the thumb and fingers. The extensors of the wrist may be shortened, so as to place the hand in the position of dorsal flexion, and thus improve the attitude and grasp of the hand. The radial nerve suffers in lesions of the musculo spiral of which it is a branch, and is itself liable to be divided in cuts about the wrist. It is purely sensory in function, and is distributed to that portion of the back of the hand and fingers lying to the radial side of the middle line of the ring finger, with the exception of the terminal portion of these digits which are supplied by the median nerve. The median nerve may be contused, compressed, or divided in the upper arm or at the bend of the elbow. It is, however, more frequently divided in w'ounds immediately above the wrist. In the forearm it supplies the pronators, the flexors of the wrist and fingers (excepting the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half