THE NERVES. 320 make a definite diagnosis as to the state of the nerve, it may be necessary to wait for a few weeks and watch the progress of the case. The subsidiary measures employed after primary suture are also to be persevered with. Dislocation of Nerves,—This injury, which resembles the dislocation of tendons from their grooves, is seldom met with except in the ulnar nerve at the elbow. It may result from a direct blow, or from a muscular effort which causes stretching or laceration of the fascia which holds the nerve in its groove, and may be predisposed to by the groove being shallow as a result of imperfect development of the internal condyle of the humerus. The nerve slips forward, and may be felt lying on the inner aspect of the condyle. It may retain this position, or it may slip backwards and forwards with the movements of the arm. The symptoms at the time of the displacement are a certain amount of disability at the elbow, and pain and tingling along the nerve, which are exaggerated by movement and by pressure. The symptoms may subside altogether, or a neuritis may develop with severe pain shooting up the nerve. The dislocated nerve is easily replaced, but is difficult to retain in position. In recent cases the arm may be placed in the ex- tended position and a pad applied over the condyle, care being taken to avoid pressure on the nerve. Failing relief, it is better to make a bed for the nerve by dividing the deep fascia behind the internal condyle and stitching the edges of the fascia over the nerve. This operation has been successful in all the recorded cases. DISEASES OF NERVES. Trauma,tic Neuritis.—This consists in an overgrowth of the connective-tissue framework of a nerve, which causes irritation and pressure upon the nerve fibres, sometimes resulting in their degeneration, and which tends to ascend towards the spinal cord. It may originate in connection with the involvement of a nerve in a scar, or as a result of comparatively slight injuries, such as contusion and compression of a nerve—for example, by the pressure of the head of the humerus in a dislocation of the shoulder. Some weeks or months after the injury the patient complains of increasing hyperesthesia and of neuralgic pains in the course of the nerve. The nerve is very sensitive to pressure, and, if superficial, may be felt to be swollen. The associated