THE BLOOD VESSELS. 266 being no bigger than a pin-head, while others cover nearly half the surface of the body. In colour they may present every tint from purple to brilliant red ; in the majority there is a consider- able dash of blue, especially in cold weather. As a rule the discoloration does not disappear when pressure is made over the tumour. The margin of the discoloured area is usually well defined, but does not project beyond the level of the surrounding skin, except when associated with the presence of a mole. Unlike the other forms of mevi, the cutaneous variety shows little tendency to disappear, and usually remains persistent throughout life, especially when associated with moles and other hypertrophies of the skin. As the naevoid tissue cannot be removed without producing a scar, which in most cases is even more disfiguring than the naevus, treatment is very unsatisfactory, and is of no avail except in very small and very superficial naevi. The best results have been obtained by long-continued use of counter-irritants—lini- ment of iodine being the most manageable—but the effects are far from certain. The purely subcutaneous naevus is very rare. It presents, on section, the appearance of a finely reticulated sponge with imperfectly marked lobulation. The walls of the spaces are thin, and are lined by endothelium continuous with that of the blood-vessels. The reticulation is probably produced by the adhesion of adjacent portions of dilated capillaries and the subsequent atrophy of their walls, so that they come to com- municate. The tumour may possess a distinct capsule, especially when it has ceased to grow or is retrogressing. The presence of one or more large arterioles in these mevi sometimes causes them to pulsate (arterial naevus). In other cases the venous element predominates, and the condition is then allied to varix. Although it may be present at or within a few days of birth, a subcutaneous naevus is often overlooked, especially when on a covered part of the body, and may not be discovered till the patient is some years old. It forms a rounded, nodulated swelling under the skin, which is seldom of large size, and may be diminished by pressing the blood out of it, but it slowly fills again when the pressure is relaxed. It may swell up when the child struggles or cries. The skin over the swelling is normal in appearance, but may exhibit a bluish tinge, especi- ally in cold weather. A subcutaneous naevus has to be diagnosed from other sub- cutaneous swellings, such as fatty, cystic, and sarcomatous tumours, cold abscess, and hernia.