548 DISEASES OF BONE. The epiphyses are nourished by a separate system of blood-vessels, chiefly derived from the arteries 'which supply the adjacent joint. The veins of the marrow are remarkable for their large calibre and for the absence of valves. The nerves enter the marrow along with the arteries, and, being derived from the sympathetic system, are probably chiefly concerned with the innervation of the blood-vessels, blit they are also capable of transmitting sensory impulses, as pain is a prominent feature of many bone affections. Functions of the Periosteum, Marrow, and Epiphysial Cartilage.—The periosteum is devoted to the formation of new bone. The marrow, in addition to its blood-forming functions, is chiefly concerned in the absorption of bone which is in excess of physiological requirements. In diseased conditions the formation of new bone by the periosteum may be arrested, retarded, or exaggerated. In paralysed limbs, and especially in children, the function of the periosteum is often in abeyance, and the bones are abnormally thin and smooth. Increase in the activity of the periosteum results in an addition to the thickness or to the girth of the affected bone. When the new bone is added in the shape of a uniform layer on the surface, the condition is spoken of as hyperostosis; when it assumes the form of spicules or irregular outgrowths, these are spoken of as osteophytes ; and when it is heaped up so as to form a circumscribed elevation, this is described as a node. Under certain conditions—and especially from the prolonged irritation caused by pyogenic infection or by syphilis—the marrow may assume active bone-forming functions. This may lead to condensation of the spongy bone, and to diminution or obliteration of the medullary canal, whereby the bone becomes dense and heavy ; to this condition the name sclerosis is applied. When the periosteum and marrow are simultaneously engaged in the excessive formation of new bone, a combination of hyperostosis and sclerosis results. Under other conditions the absorption of lime salts and excavation of bone may be excessive, and the shaft, which was originally firm and rigid, may become soft and brittle. These changes may render the bone liable to break under slight violence, or to bend under the weight of the body. The term hypertrophy of hone refers to a physiological increase in the bone-forming functions of the periosteum or of the marrow, or of both combined ; the term atrophy to a condition in which the formation of bone is retarded or arrested, or in which the absorption of bone is in excess of the normal. There is both diminished formation and excess- ive absorption of bone in the atrophy which accompanies old age. Considerable interest attaches to that form met with in the neck of the femur, in which, while the bone retains its external form, there is excavation and enlargement of the marrow spaces at the expense of the osseous framework ; this is sometimes described as eccentric atrophy or senile osteoporosis. The function of the epiphysial cartilage is to provide for the growth of the shaft in length. While all epiphysial cartilages contribute to this result, certain of them functionate more actively and for a longer period than others. Those at the knee contribute more to the length of the lower limb than do those at the hip or ankle, and they are also the last to unite. In the upper limb this arrangement is reversed, for the more active epiphyses are at the shoulder and wrist, and, like those at the knee, are also the last to unite. The activity of the epiphysial cartilage may be modified as a result