THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 246 in a direction backward and slightly upward against the brim of the pelvis, midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine. The abdominal aorta may be compressed against the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae opposite the umbilicus, if the spine be arched well forwards over a pillow or sand-bag. The best method is that suggested by Macewen, in which the patient’s spine is arched forwards by allowing the lower extremities and pelvis to hang over the lower end of the table, while the assistant, standing on a stool, applies his closed fist over the abdominal aorta and compresses it against the vertebral column. Arrest of Haemorrhage.—The best means of securing the larger vessels is by ligature. Torsion and forci- pressure are more suitable to small branches. The actual cautery, douch- ing with very hot water, the local application of styptics, and the internal administration of drugs have a limited field of usefulness in the treatment of surgical haemorrhage. Ligature.—The divided vessel having been secured with forceps as near to its cut end as possible, a ligature is applied, preferably of some absorbable material such as catgut or kangaroo tendon. Eine silk may be preferred, on account of the greater certainty with which it can be sterilised. Torsion.—In employing torsion, the end of the vessel is caught with forceps, and the terminal portion twisted round several times. The object is to tear the inner and middle coats of the vessel so that they curl up inside the lumen, while the outer fibrous coat is twisted into a cord which occludes the end of the vessel. This method is seldom employed except for comparatively small vessels, but it is applicable to even the largest arteries. Ford-pressure.—Bleeding from the smallest arteries and from arterioles can usually be arrested by firmly squeezing them for a few minutes with serrated or grooved artery forceps, such as those of Spencer Wells, Koclier, or Greig-Smith. It is usually found that on the removal of the forceps at the end of the operation no further haemorrhage takes place. The actual cautery or Paquelin’s thermo - cautery is some- times employed to arrest haemorrhage. It is used at a dull- red heat, which sears the divided ends of the vessels and so occludes the lumen. A bright-red or a white heat cuts the vessel across without occluding it. The separation of the slough produced by the charring of the tissues is sometimes attended with secondary bleeding. Profuse capillary oozing may sometimes be arrested by