230 CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURIES. that operations should only be undertaken during profound shock when they are imperatively demanded for the arrest of haemorrhage, the prevention of septic infection of serous cavities, or the relief of pain which is producing or intensifying the condition. This question will be discussed in greater detail later. Prevention of Operation Shock.—About half an hour before a prolonged and severe operation, the patient should receive a nutrient enema of brandy and peptonised meat juice, and a hypodermic injection of grain of strychnine. The operating- room must be warm,—not less than 70° F.,—and the patient should be wrapped in cotton wool and blankets, and surrounded by hot-bottles. All lotions used must be warm (100° F.); and the operation should be completed as speedily and as blood- lessly as possible. In prolonged operations further injections of — grain of strychnine may be given. Treatment.—A patient suffering from shock should be placed in the recumbent position, and the foot of the bed raised to facilitate the return circulation in the large veins, and so increase the flow of blood to the brain. His bed should be placed near a large fire, and the patient himself surrounded by cotton wool and blankets, and hot-bottles. If the patient has lost much blood, the limbs should be wrapped in cotton wool and firmly bandaged from below upwards, to conserve as much of the circulating blood as possible in the trunk and head. If he can swallow, stimulating drinks such as hot coffee, hot wine or whisky should be given; if not, subcutaneous injections of ether (20 to 30 minims), brandy, digitalin (xjjo grain), or, best of all, strychnine to grain), may be administered. Enemata containing stimulants may also be given. The intra-venous or intra-cellular injection of normal saline solution lone dram of sodium chloride to a pint of boiled water) at a temperature of about 105° F. is most useful where much blood has been lost. Two or three pints may be injected into the veins, or smaller quantities under the skin. Saline fluids injected into the rectum are absorbed more slowly. The extreme thirst of which the patient so often complains is best met by giving small quantities of warm water by the mouth, or by the injection of four or five ounces of warm water into the rectum. Ice only relieves thirst for a short time, and as it is liable to indirce flatulence should be avoided, especially in abdominal cases. Dryness of the tongue may be relieved by swabbing the mouth with a mixture of glycerine and lemon juice.