544 INJURIES IN REGION OF ANKLE AND FOOT. sometimes coming through the skin. The tendons around the joint are stretched or torn. Forward dislocation results from extreme dorsal flexion of the ankle-joint. The foot appears lengthened, the heel is less prominent than normal, and the hollows on each side of the tendo Achillis are obliterated. The astragalus is felt in front of the tibia, and the malleoli appear to be displaced backwards and towards the sole. Lateral dislocations—inward or outward — are only possible after fracture of one or both malleoli, and may be looked upon as com- plications of these injuries. The astragalus may pass upwards between the bones of the leg in cases where the interosseous ligament is ruptured, and in aggravated cases of Dupuytren’s fracture. There is great broadening in the region of the ankle, and the malleoli are unduly promi- nent under the skin, which is tightly stretched over them. They are also nearer to the sole than normal. The movements of the ankle-joint are lost. Dislocation of the inferior tibio- fibular; joint is exceedingly rare, ex- cept in association with fractures of the lower ends of the bones of the leg, particularly Dupuytren’s frac- ture, or with dislocation of the ankle- joint proper. Treatment.—The patient having been anaesthetised, the foot is ex- tended and the knee and hip joints flexed in order to relax the calf muscles as completely as possible. Traction is then made upon the foot, while counter-extension is applied to the leg, and the bones are manipulated* into position. Reduction usually takes place gradually without the characteristic snap which accompanies reduction of most dislocations. It is sometimes necessary to divide the tendo Achillis, particularly in cases of forward dislocation. When the astragalus passesupwardsbetweenthetibiaand fibula, it is sometimes impossible to effect reduction by manipulation, and the best results are then obtained by excising the astragalus. Fig. 176.—Ankylosis of Ankle after Compound Fracture with Lateral Dislocation of Ankle. (Specimen in Professor Annandale’s collection.)