PATHOLOGICAL ANEURYSM. 273 strain involved by their occupations and recreations. Any cause which persistently increases the vascular tension also favours aneurysm formation—for example, plethora, chronic alcoholism, gout, or chronic Bright’s disease. Syphilis plays an important part in the production of aneu- rysm, but the precise way in which it acts is doubtful. It may be that it predisposes the patient to atheroma and induces a persistent increase in the vascular tension by the loss of elasticity of the vessel wall and narrowing of the lumen as a result of syphilitic arteritis. It is a striking fact that aneurysm is seldom met with in females who have not suffered from syphilis. Varieties.—Different varieties of pathological aneurysm occur, according as the weakening of the arterial wall is general over a considerable segment of the artery, or is localised in one or more limited areas. Fusiform Aneurysm.—When the whole circumference of a portion of an artery has been weakened, the tension of the blood causes the walls to dilate uniformly, so that a fusiform or tubular aneurysm results. All the coats of the vessel are stretched and form the sac of the aneurysm, and the affected portion is not only dilated but is also increased in length. This form is chiefly met with in the arch of the aorta, but may occur in any of the main arterial trunks. As the sac of the aneurysm includes all three coats, and as the inner and outer coats are usually thickened by the deposit in them of fibrous tissue, a fusiform aneurysm increases in size very slowly and seldom gives rise to urgent symptoms. When the intima is roughened by atheroma, especially in the form of calcareous plates, shreds of clot may adhere to it, but as a rule a fusiform aneurysm contains only fluid blood. It is not uncommon, especially in the aorta, for a localised dilatation of a specially weak portion of the sac to take place, a sacculated aneurysm being thus grafted on a fusiform aneurysm. This adds greatly to the gravity of the condition, as the sacculated portion is very liable to rupture. Natural cure is occasionally effected by the emerging artery becoming occluded by a clot. Sacculated Aneurysm.—When a limited area of the vessel wall is weakened—for example, by atheroma or by other form of arteritis—this portion yields before the pressure of the blood, and a sacculated aneurysm results. The intima and media being already damaged, or, it may be, destroyed, by the primary disease, the stress falls on the adventitia, which in the majority of cases, except in the earliest stages, constitutes the VOL. I—18