241 REPAIR OF BLOOD-VESSELS. (а) When the wall of an artery is partially torn, or punctured, it may be repaired by the organisation and subsequent conversion into scar tissue of the clot which forms in the gap. This cicatrix in the vessel wall, however, is liable subsequently to be stretched by the blood pressure and to become the starting-point of a traumatic aneurysm. (б) When an artery is completely divided the circular fibres of the muscular coat contract, and so the lumen of the cut ends is diminished. At the same time the vessel retracts within its sheath, in virtue of the recoil of the elastic elements in its walls. The tunica intima curls up in the interior of the vessel, and the tunica adventitia collapses over the cut ends. The blood which escapes from the injured vessel fills the interstices of the tissues, and, coagulating, forms a clot which temporarily arrests the bleeding. That part of the clot which lies between the divided ends of the vessel and in the cellular tissue outside is known as the external clot, while the portion which projects into the lumen of the vessel is known as the internal clot. The internal clot usually extends into the vessel as far as the nearest collateral branch. These processes constitute what is known as the “ temporary arrest of haemorrhage,” which, it will be observed, is effected by the contraction and retraction of the divided artery and by the formation of a clot. The “ permanent arrest ” takes place by the transformation of this clot into scar tissue. The internal clot plays the most important part in the process : it becomes invaded by leucocytes and proliferating endothelial and connective-tissue cells, and new blood-vessels permeate the mass forming granulation tissue. This is ultimately replaced by cicatricial fibrous tissue, which permanently occludes the end of the vessel. Concurrently and by the same process the external clot is converted into scar tissue. Repair of Veins.—The process of repair in veins is the same as that in arteries, but the thrombosed area may again become canalised and the circulation through the vessel be re-established. Conditions which influence the Natural Arrest of Haemorrhage. —It has already been mentioned that contusion or laceration of a blood-vessel promotes the natural arrest of haemorrhage by favouriug the formation of clots on the damaged portions of the vessel wall. The occurrence of syncope or of profound shock also helps to stop bleeding by reducing the force of the heart’s action. On the other hand, there are various conditions which retard the natural arrest. When, for example, a vessel is only partially divided, the contraction and retraction of the muscular coat, VOL, I—16