DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 253 The prognosis is, on the whole, unfavourable, as these patients usually succumb sooner or later to haemorrhage, although they often survive several very severe attacks. After middle life the tendency to bleed appears to diminish. Treatment.—As a rule the ordinary styptics and other means of arresting haemorrhage are of little avail, and in most cases it is only after trying many remedies that the bleeding ceases. From among the numerous means suggested for treating this disease the following may be mentioned. The application to the bleeding point of gauze soaked in a 1 in 1000 solution of adrenalin has been found beneficial, as has also the use of the blood of a healthy person applied in the same way. The pro- longed inhalation of oxygen has recently been recommended as highly efficacious. The oozing may be controlled, temporarily at least, by freezing the part with a spray of ethyl-chloride. One or more subcutaneous injections of gelatin may be given— five ounces of a 2-J- per cent, solution of white gelatin in normal salt solution being injected at a temperature of about 100° F. In the prophylaxis of haemophilia chloride of calcium and extract of thymus gland have also been recommended as having the property of increasing the coagulability of the blood. Then- use, however, is attended with risk of thrombosis if the circula- tion is very weak. Diseases of Blood-vessels. The processes known as thrombosis and embolism are so intimately associated with the diseases of blood-vessels that it is convenient to define these terms in the first- instance. Thrombosis. —The term thrombus is applied to a clot of blood locally formed in the interior of the heart or of a blood-vessel, and the process by which such a clot is formed is known as thrombosis. The essential cause of thrombosis is as yet not thoroughly understood. It would appear, however, that slowing or stagnation of the blood-stream, and interference with the integrity of the lining membrane of the vessel wall, are the most important factors determining the formation of the clot. As a result of either or of both of these factors, the blood-plates and leucocytes adhere to the vessel wall, and as a result of their dis- ; integration a fibrin ferment is set free which determines coagula- !; tion and the deposit of fibrin. When the thrombus is formed slowly it is of a greyish-white colour, and, being deposited in successive layers, has a distinctly laminated appearance on section. This is known as a white thrombus or laminated clot,