ULCERATION AND ULCERS. 80 Dusting powders and poultice dressings are best avoided in the treatment of healing sores. Treatment of Special Varieties of Ulcers.—Before begin- ning to treat a given ulcer two questions have to be answered— first, What are the causal conditions present 1 and second, In what condition do I find the ulcer 1—in other words, In what particulars does it differ from a healthy healing sore ? If the cause be a local one, it must be removed; if a con- stitutional one, means must be taken to counteract it. This done, the condition of the ulcer must be so modified as to bring it into the state of a healing sore, after which it will be managed on the lines already laid down. Treatment in relation to the Cause of the Ulcer.—Trau- matic Group. — The prophylaxis of these ulcers consists in rigidly excluding bacteria, by cleansing crushed or bruised parts with antiseptic lotions, and applying sterilised dressings and properly-adjusted splints. These measures will often prevent a grossly-injured portion of skin sloughing, and will ensure its asepticity should it do so. In the event of the skin giving way, the same form of dressing should be continued till the slough has separated and a healthy granulating surface is formed. The protective dressing appropriate to a healing sore is then substituted. Pressure sores are treated on the same lines. The treatment of burns and scalds will be described later. In the case of ulcers due to interference with the venous return, the primary indication is to elevate the limb to facili- tate the free flow of the blood in the veins. Should varicose veins be present, the question of operative treatment must be considered. When an imperfect nerve-supply is the main factor under- lying ulcer formation, prophylaxis is the chief consideration. In patients suffering from spinal injuries or diseases, cerebral paralysis, or affections of the peripheral nerves, all sources of irritation, such as ill - fitting splints, tight bandages, moist applications, and hot bottles, should be avoided. Any part liable to pressure, from the position of the patient or otherwise, must be carefully protected by pads of wool, air-cushions, or water-bags, and must be kept absolutely dry. The skin should be hardened by daily applications of methylated spirit. Should an ulcer form in spite of these precautions, the mildest and least irritant antiseptics must be employed for bathing and dressing it, and as far as possible all dressings should be dry.