CLINICAL ASPECTS OF INFLAMMATION. 41 Fever. — The nature and significance of alterations in the temperature in inflammatory and other pathological conditions have already been referred to. The/mdse is always increased in frequency during inflammation and usually varies directly with the height of the temperature. In the early stages, while the temperature is rising, it may be small and firm ; during the height of the inflammation it is full and bounding; and if the process be long continued it tends to become small, soft, and weak, or even dicrotic and irregular. Respiration is more active during the progress of an inflammation. Bronchial catarrh is common, apart from any antecedent local respiratory disease. Gastro-intestinal disturbances are usually present in the form of loss of appetite, diminished secretion of the alimentary juices, and weakening of the peristalsis of the bowel, leading to constipation, great thirst, and dry, furred tongue. Diarrhoea is sometimes present. The urine is usually scanty, of high specific gravity, rich in nitrogenous substances, especially urea and uric acid, and in calcium salts, while sodium chloride is deficient. Albumen and hyaline casts may be present in cases of severe inflammation with high temperature. Leucocytosis is generally present in acute inflammations of moderate severity. Clinical Features of Inflammation complicating a Surgical Wound.—If in the course of a surgical operation bacterial infection of the wound has occurred, inflammatory reaction soon manifests itself. In from twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the operation the patient is conscious of a sensation of chilliness, or may even have a distinct rigor. At the same time he feels generally out of sorts, with impaired appetite, headache, and it may be looseness of the bowels. His temperature rises to 100° or 101° F., and the pulse quickens to 100 or 110. On exposing the wound it is found that the parts for some distance around are red, glazed, and cedematous. The dis- coloration and swelling are most intense in the immediate vicinity of the wound, the edges of which are everted and moist. Any stitches which may have been introduced are tight, and the deep ones may be cutting into the tissues. There is heat, and a constant burning or throbbing pain, which is increased by pressure. On inserting a probe between the lips of the wound a quantity of dark serous or sanious fluid escapes, or the discharge may even already have become purulent.