INJURIES. 210 There is not much pain at first, but later it may become severe, and is usually associated with intense thirst, especially when much blood has been lost. Recent experience has shown that even in active warfare the great majority of gunshot wounds heal by first intention if treated on antiseptic principles from the first, by the intelligent application of the field dressing with which each soldier is pro- vided. Nussbaum puts it tersely—“The fate of the wounded rests in the hands of the one who applies the first dressing.” Considerable difference of opinion exists as to the advisability of removing embedded bullets, some authorities holding that unless causing definite symptoms they should be left alone, while others advocate their extraction to obviate possible later complications and to relieve the mind of the patient. It is needless to say that, in localising bullets as a preliminary to operation, invaluable aid is obtained by the use of the Rontgen rays. This procedure has, to a large extent, superseded the employment of special probes and other instruments for this purpose. Nekton’s probe, which is furnished with a knob of unglazed porcelain at its end, was formerly much used in search- ing for bullets, the lead of the bullet leaving a mark on the porcelain. It is, however, of no special value in detecting the presence of modern bullets, as the hard mantle leaves no mark on the china. Various forms of electric bullet detectors or “telephone probes ” are employed. The probe is made of some insulating material, and carries in its interior two wires connected with a battery. When the ends of these wires come in contact with a metallic substance, such as a bullet, and the circuit is thus completed, the needle of a galvanometer is moved or a small bell is rung. Pistol-shot Wounds.—Wounds inflicted by pistols, revolvers, and small air-guns are of frequent occurrence in civil practice, the weapon being discharged usually by accident, but frequently with suicidal, and sometimes with homicidal intent. With all calibres and at all ranges except on actual contact, the wound of entrance is smaller than the bullet. If the weapon is discharged within a foot of the body, the skin surrounding the wound is usually stained with smoke, and burned, and the hair singed. At ranges varying from six inches to thirty feet, grains of powder may be found embedded in the skin or lying loose on the surface, the greater the range the wider being the area of spread. When black powder is used the embedded grains usually leave a permanent bluish-black tattooing of the skin. When the weapon is placed in contact with the skin the sub-