CYSTS. 199 Implantation cysts are caused by the accidental implantation of portions of the epidermis into the underlying connective tissue, as may occur in accidental wounds by needles, awls, forks, or thorns. The implanted epidermis proliferates and forms a small cyst. They are chieliy met with on the palmar aspect of the fingers, and vary in size from a split pea to a cherry. The treatment consists in removing them by dissection. Parasitic cysts are produced by the growth within the tissues of cyst-forming parasites, the best known being the taenia echinococcus, which gives rise to the hydatid cyst. Blood cysts may result from an extravasation of blood into the tissues, from haemorrhage taking place into a pre-fonned cyst, or from the saccular pouching of a varicose vein. Lymphatic or serous cysts are met with as the result of the distension of lymphatic spaces or vessels, and in the lymphan- giomata which include the cystic hygroma or hydrocele of the neck. Ganglion. This term is applied to a cyst filled with a clear jelly or colloid material, and usually met with in the immediate vicinity of a joint. The carpal ganglion—popularly known as a sprained sinew— is met with as a smooth, rounded, or oval swelling on the dorsal aspect of the carpus, usually towards its radial side. It is situated over one of the intercarpal or other joints in this region, and may appear to be connected with one or other of the extensor tendons. The skin and fascia are movable over the cyst. The cyst varies in size from a pea to a pigeon’s egg, and it becomes tense and more prominent when the hand is flexed towards the palm. Its appearance is usually ascribed to some strain of the wrist—for example, in girls learning gymnastics, or in women after a heavy washing. It may cause no symptoms beyond the deformity, or it may interefere with the use of the hand, especially in grasping movements, and when the hand is clorsiflexed. In females it may give rise to pain which shoots up the arm. The tarsal ganglion is situated on the dorsum of the foot over one or other of the intertarsal joints. It is usually smaller, flatter, and more tense than that met with over the wrist, so that it is sometimes mistaken for a bony tumour. It rarely causes any symptoms, unless so situated as to be pressed upon by the boot. Ganglia in the region of the knee are usually situated over