INJURIES OF BONES. 394 old people who are confined to bed as a result of a fracture, even although repair is going on satisfactorily. The appetite is lost, the vital reactions are diminished, and the mental con- dition often deteriorates. Fat embolism sometimes occurs, and delirium tremens is a not infrequent accompaniment of fractures in persons addicted to alcohol. Injuries to large arteries are not common in simple fractures. The femoral, popliteal and tibial arteries, however, are liable to be compressed, punctured, or torn across in fractures of the bones with which they lie in close contact. Thrombosis, traumatic aneurysm, or gangrene may follow such injuries. Large veins are even less frequently injured, probably because of their soft, lax walls and the low tension of the blood in them. Venous thrombosis, leading to pulmonary embolism, is the great risk attending this complication, although gangrene is also to be feared. Injuries to nerve trunks are comparatively common, especially in fractures of the upper arm, where the musculo-spiral, ulnar, or other branches of the brachial plexus are liable to suffer; and in fracture of the neck of the fibula, where the external popliteal may be involved. The nerves may be implicated at the time of the injury, being compressed, bruised, lacerated, or completely torn across by broken fragments, or they may be involved later by becoming compressed by callus. The symptoms depend upon the degree of damage sustained by the nerve, and vary from partial and temporary interference with sensation and motion to complete and permanent abrogation of function. Suppuration and necrosis are exceedingly rare sequelae of simple fractures, and are due to bacterial infection through the blood-stream, or to organisms already located in the damaged area. Prognosis in Simple Fractures.—Danger to life in simple fractures depends chiefly on the occurrence of complications. In old people where the injury necessitates long and continuous lying on the back, bronchitis, hypostatic pneumonia, and bed- sores are prone to occur. Gradually increasing debility is also a cause for anxiety in these cases. Fractures complicated with injury to internal organs, and fractures where gangrene threatens, are, of course, of grave import. The prognosis as regards the function of the limb should always be guarded, even in simple fractures. Incidental com- plications are constantly liable to arise, delaying recovery and preventing a satisfactory result, and these not only lead to