DISEASES OF BONE. 588 and readily succumb, especially to pulmonary and intestinal tuberculosis. The progress of the disease is slow and inter- mittent, and varies with the age of the child, its surroundings, and the treatment employed; it may pass off in a few weeks, or may drag on for months or even years. The majority of rickety patients seen in surgical wards suffer rather from the deformities resulting from rickets than from the disease itself. The examination of a large series of children at different ages shows that rickety deformities become less and less frequent with each year. Those who recover may ultimately show no traces of rickets, and this is especially true of children who grow at the average rate ; in those, however, in whom growth is retarded, especially from the fifth to the seventh year, the deformities are apt to persist and become permanent. It may be noted that scoliosis of rickety origin has little tendency towards spon- taneous recovery. Treatment.—The essentials in treatment consist in regulating the diet, improving the surroundings of the patient, and preventing deformity. In the first instance it may be necessary to attend to the stomach and bowels. Fresh air and sunshine are recom- mended, with precautions against catching cold. A change to the seaside, and the use of salt-water baths, followed by massage, are of great value. Phosphorus in doses of 100th grain may be given dissolved in cod-liver oil, and preparations of iron and lime may be added with advantage. In order to avoid those postures which predispose to deformities the child should lie on its back as much as possible. In the well-to-do classes this is readily achieved with the assistance of a nurse and perambulator. In hospital out-patients the child is kept off its feet by the use of a light wooden splint applied to the outer aspect of each lower extremity and extending from the pelvis to six inches beyond the sole. Splints and apparatus which allow7 the child to walk are not to be recommended. When deformities have already taken place, the treatment depends upon wThether or not there is any prospect of spontaneous recovery. Under five years of age recovery may be confidently expected. The child should be kept off its feet, and the limbs bathed and massaged. In children of five or six and upwards the prospect of natural recovery is a diminishing one, and the more satisfactory means of correcting the deformity is by operation. In rickety curvature of the spine, the child should lie on its back on a firm mattress, and the muscles acting on the trunk should be braced up by massage and appropriate exercises.