698 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. when the knee is Hexed, or, on the contrary, it may pass further outwards and become completely dislocated (Fig. 240). In the intermittent form the patella lies in its normal place, but is liable to be displaced outwards when the joint is Hexed; the displace- ment usually occurs suddenly in walking, and the patient falls to the ground, suffering intense pain. The knee-cap is readily replaced on extending the joint, but the patient is usually dis- abled for a day or two. The dislocation recurs at irregular intervals, and the patient is unable to prevent it. It is chiefly met with in girls, and there is usually a history that the child was late in walking and learned with difficulty. On examination, the patella is found to have an abnormal range of movement outwards, al- though it cannot be completely dislocated without causing severe pain. The condition is frequently bilateral, and is said to be due to an imperfect development of the external condyle of the femur. It is predisposed to by knock-knee. The following methods of operative treat- ment have been practised for its relief :—Displacing the attachment of the ligamentum patellae inwards ; deepening the groove for the patella on the trochlear surface of the femur; tightening up the capsular ligament along the inner side of the patella. Fig. 240. —Outward Dislocation A condition of bow-knee may be pro- of Patellae in a girl *t. 14. duced artiflcially by supra-condylar osteotomy of the femur, as recom- mended by Chiene, in the case of females, in whom the deformity would be hidden by the clothes. Genu Recurvatum.—In this deformity the knee is hyper- extended, the thigh and leg forming an angle which is open forwards. It may be due to congenital dislocation of the tibia forward, especially when this is associated with absence of the patella. A more common congenital form, which is apparently the result of a faulty attitude of the lower extremities in utero, is met with apart from dislocation. The knee is convex backwards, and attempts to flex the joint cause pain. When the deformity is bilateral, the patellm are usually imperfectly developed, the joints