COXA VARA. 695 vara is an acquired deformity of the upper end of the femur, usually associated with shortening and alteration of the attitude of the limb. Attention has been directed to it chiefly by Muller, Ogston, and Kocher. Coxa vara is not a disease per se, but may result from any pathological condition which is capable of bringing about an alteration in the axis of the neck of the femur, Avhereby the head is depressed either to or below the level of the great trochanter. Several forms are recognised. Adolescent Cojm Vara.—This, the most common clinical type, is met with chiefly in boys between the ages of twelve and eighteen. It may be associated with other deformities occurring at or near puberty—such as lateral curvature of the spine, knock- knee, or flat-foot. It is usually unilateral. The deformity and resulting disability may be the first indications of the condition, or there may be pain and stiffness at the hip before there is any deformity. When pain is an early symptom, and especially when it is also referred to the knee, the condition closely simu- lates hip-joint disease. The patient usually complains of being easily tired, of difficulty in kneeling and sitting, and of an increasing limp in walking. On examination the limb is found to be shortened, and the great trochanter displaced upwards. The shortening, which may amount to as much as two inches, is estimated by applying Bryant’s or Nelaton’s tests. The trochanter is usually displaced backwards as well as upwards, and is unnaturally prominent. The muscles of the buttock and thigh are a little smaller and softer than on the normal side. The limb is more or less adducted, and its normal range of abduction is considerably restricted. There is also, as a rule, some degree of external rotation, so that the toes are turned outwards and the patient is incapable of completely rotating the limb inwards. Flexion is also restricted. The external rotation and adduction are partially compensated for by upward tilting of the pelvis and a certain degree of lateral curvature of the spine. When the deformity is bilateral, the attitude and gait are highly characteristic, as the adducted and everted legs tend to cross each other at the knee. The attitude and gait may be of the scissors-leg type, or of that associated with certain forms of spastic paraplegia. In extreme cases the patient may be unable to walk at all, or can only do so with the aid of crutches. In the recumbent position the thighs cross each other when the lower limbs are flexed at the hip and knee. Pathological Anatomy.—The changes in the upper end of the femur vary in different cases. There may be a simple adduction