143 TUBERCULOUS ABSCESS. pyogenic organisms gain access to the sinus, and through it to the wall of the abscess. They tend further to depress the resisting power of the tissues, and thereby aggravate and perpetuate the tuberculous disease. This superadded infection with pyogenic organisms exposes the patient to the further risks of septic intoxication, especially in the form of hectic fever and septicaemia, and to general tuberculosis. A tuberculous abscess may in one or other of these ways be a cause of death. The chronic abscess may be met with anywhere in the subcutaneous or other cellular tissue. It is often the result of tuberculous disease in a lymphatic gland, in a bone, or in one or other of the organs of the body, such as the kidney or testicle. Residual abscess is the name given to the abscess, which may make its appearance months, or even years, after the apparent cure of tuberculous disease—as, for example, in the hip-joint or spine. It is called residual because it has its origin in the residuum or remains of the original disease. Diagnosis.—The typical cold abscess is to be diagnosed from a softening syphilitic gumma, a cyst, a lipoma, and from other soft tumours. When a tuberculous abscess is about to burst externally, it may be difficult to distinguish it from an abscess due to infection with pyogenic organisms. Help is obtained by the history, and by recognising the association of the abscess with tuberculous disease in one of the organs or tissues in the neighbourhood. Even when the abscess is opened, the appear- ances of the pus may not supply the desired information, and it may be necessary to submit it to bacteriological examination or experimental inoculation in order to arrive at an accurate diagnosis. It may be only after opening the abscess that its seat of origin can be recognised. Treatment.—It is instructive to know that before the intro- duction of Listerian methods, surgeons deprecated the opening of tuberculous abscesses because of the almost inevitable occurrence of pyogenic infection, and of the risks which this implies. After the introduction of antiseptics, it became possible to open such abscesses without these risks, and the procedure employed was to make an opening in a dependent position, and secure drainage by means of a rubber tube. The usual result was that the abscess continued to discharge, often for long periods, and the track of .the tube frequently became a persistent sinus. The more recent and more successful treatment consists in destroying the wall of the abscess, for in it is contained the tuberculous infection which is the cause both of the abscess and of the persistence of discharge after it has been opened. This