MALIGNANT CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOURS. 189 the bleeding when the tumour is incised or ulcerates through the skin, and the readiness with which the sarcomatous cells may be carried off into the circulating blood. Sarcomata are devoid of lymphatics, and unless originating in lymphatic structures—for example, in the tonsil—they rarely infect the lymphatic glands. Sarcomata usually infect distant parts through the blood-stream. Minute portions of the tumour grow into the small veins, and becoming detached, are trans- ported by the blood current to distant organs, where they are arrested in the capillaries and give rise to independent second- ary growths. These are most frequently situated in the lungs, except when the primary growth lies within the territory of the portal circulation, in which case they occur in the liver. The secondary growths closely resemble the parent tumour. Sar- coma may invade an adjacent vein on such a scale that if the invading portion become detached it may constitute a dangerous embolus. This may be observed in renal sarcoma, the growth taking place along the renal vein until it projects into the inferior vena cava. In their growth sarcomata compress and destroy neighbouring parts, surround vessels and nerves, and may lead to destruction of the skin, either by invading it or more commonly by causing sloughing from pressure. Once the skin is broken the tumour fungates through the opening. Inflammatory and suppurative changes may take place in sarcomata as a result of pyogenic infection. They vary very much in malignancy, especially as regards rapidity of growth and capacity for dissemination. Certain of them, such as the so-called “ recurrent fibroid of Paget,” grow comparatively slowly, and are only malignant in the sense that they tend to recur after removal. Others, again, —especially the more cellular tumours,—grow with extreme rapidity, and are early disseminated throughout the body, re- sembling in these respects the most malignant forms of cancer. Sarcomata occur at all ages. They are usually solitary in the first instance, although it is stated that primary multiple growths are occasionally met with in the skin and in the bones. Many varieties of sarcomata are recognised according to the structural peculiarities of the growth. Thus, according to the size and character of the cells, v7e have the small round-celled and the large round-celled sarcomata, the small and large spindle- celled sarcomata, the giant-celled and the mixed-celled sarcomata. The lympho - sarcoma presents a structure similar to that of lymph follicular tissue, and the alveolar sarcoma an arrangement of cells in alveoli resembling that seen in cancers. When there