407 REPAIR OF FRACTURES. All surplus bone is removed, the medullary canal is re-formed, the young spongy bone of the intermediate callus becomes more and more compact, and thus the original contour and structure of the bone may be faithfully reproduced. The amount of callus produced in the repair of a given fracture is greater when movement is permitted between the broken ends. It is also influenced by the character of the bone involved, being less in bones entirely ossified in membrane, such as the fiat bones of the skull, than in those primarily ossified in cartilage. If the fragments are widely separated from one another, or if some tissue, such as muscle, intervenes between them, callus may not be able to bring about a bony union between the fragments, and non-union results. A compound fracture, if not infected by bacteria, heals in Fig. 85.—Excessive Callus Formation after Septic Compound Fracture of both Bones of Forearm—result of gunshot wound. Fusion of Bones across Interosseous Space. the same way as a simple one. Should infection ensue, how- ever, changes associated with inflammation complicate the healing process and give rise to phenomena which will be referred to later. Under these circumstances any fragments which may have been detached are liable to necrose, and require removal. Modifications of Repair of Fracture.—The normal process of repair by the formation of callus may be interfered with in various ways. Excess of Callus.—In comminuted fractures, and in those uniting with marked deformity, the amount of callus is in excess, but this is necessary to ensure stability. In other cases, and especially in fractures in the vicinity of large joints, such as the hip or elbow, and sometimes between the bones in fractures of the leg or forearm (Fig. 85), from some undetermined cause the new formation is excessive, and interferes with the useful- ness of the limb. Experimental evidence goes to show that the section of nerves induces an excessive formation of callus, and