694 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. successful by either of the preceding methods. Where, however, the patient is seriously incapacitated by the deformity, an attempt may be made to improve the existing condition of affairs. This may be accomplished by an operation which secures a firm fibrous ankylosis at the hip in the abducted position of the limb. Paralytic Deformities of the Hip. — These usually result from infantile paralysis, and are often associated with similar paralytic deformities of the knee and ankle. When the paralysis is very extensive the hip-joint may become fiail-like and useless— a condition which may be relieved by the use of a supporting apparatus or by arthrodesis. When the paralysis specially involves definite groups of muscles, the tendency is towards con- tracture, usually in the attitude of flexion with adduction and inversion. The contracture may finally result in a dislocation either onto the dorsum ilii or onto the pubes. The dislocation may even occur in patients who are confined to bed (Fig. 238). Flu. 238.—Contracture Deformities of Fight Upper and Lower Limbs resulting from cerebral palsy in infancy. The contracture may be remedied by massage, weight exten- sion, and subcutaneous division of the shortened structures. Reduction of the dislocation is rarely possible without having recourse to an open operation, and this should be done in suit- able cases. Contractures and Ankyloses of the Hip.—In addition to the paralytic contracture above-mentioned, other forms are met with, for example, as a result of cicatricial contraction of the soft parts on the flexor aspect of the joint—such as may follow upon burns or disease of the femoral glands—or from shortening of the fasciae, muscles, and ligaments on the flexor aspect of the joint in conditions in which the hip is maintained in the flexed position for long periods—for example, in psoas abscess, chronic rheumatism, or hysteria. The majority, however, result from tuberculous disease of the hip-joint, and have been already considered. In a certain num- ber of cases the contracture of the soft, parts is associated with fibrous or osseous ankylosis of the joint. Coxa Vara—Incurvation of the Neck of the Femur.—Coxa