DELIRIUM IN SURGICAL PATIENTS. 231 If severe pain after operation calls for the use of morphin, TI (7 grain of atropin should be added to avoid the depressing effect of the opiate. Artificial respiration may be useful in tiding a patient over the critical period of shock. Collapse is a clinical condition which comes on more in- sidiously than shock, and which does not attain its maximum degree of severity for several hours. It is met with in the course of severe illnesses, especially such as are associated with the loss of large quantities of fluid from the body—for example, by severe diarrhoea, notably in Asiatic cholera; by copious vomiting; or by profuse sweating, as in some cases of heat stroke. Collapse often follows upon shock—for example, in intestinal perforations, or after abdominal operations complicated with peritonitis, especially if there be vomiting, as in cases of obstruction high up in the intestine. The symptoms of collapse are aggravated if septic absorption be superadded to the loss of fluid. Severe degrees of collapse follow any sudden and profuse loss of blood. The clinical features of this condition are practically the same as those of shock; and it is treated on the same lines. It is seldom recovered from. Delirium in Surgical Patients. Delirium is a temporary disturbance of mind which occurs in the course of certain diseases, and sometimes after injuries. It is to be looked upon as a serious and dangerous complication. The causes of delirium in surgical patients are numerous, and it is not ahvays easy in a given case to discover the cause. Thus it may be associated with any of the acute pyogenic infections, with erysipelas, especially when it affects the head or face, and with chronic septic diseases of the urinary organs. In the various forms of meningitis, and in some cases of injury to the head, it is common. It is also met with after severe hsemor- rhage, and in cases of poisoning by iodoform, chloroform, morphin, cocain, or alcohol. Lastly, delirium may be an evidence of true insanity. It may assume the form of excitement, of dementia, or of melancholia; and the symptoms are usually worse during the night. Incoherent muttering regarding past incidents or oceu-