DISEASES OF RONE. 558 derived from the trigone of the femur perforates the popliteal artery or the cavity of the knee-joint. The extent to which bone which has been lost is reproduced varies in different parts of the skeleton : while the long hones of limbs, the scapula, the lower jaw, and other bones which are developed in cartilage are almost perfectly reproduced, the articular ends of bone, and bones which are entirely developed in membrane, such as the flat bones of the skull and upper jaw, are not reproduced at all. In infants, so long as the epiphyses are cartilaginous, they are to a large extent intra-articular, and osteomyelitis occurring at the ossifying junction is much more likely to involve the adjacent joint than to spread to the shaft of the bone, as it does in older children. In the small bones of the carpus, tarsus, fingers and toes, the lesion assumes the characters of a joint disease. In flat bones, such as the skull, ilium, or scapula, periosteal suppuration is the predominant feature, and it may occur on both aspects of the bone. Clinical Features of Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis and Periostitis.—The symptoms may be divided into those which attend the entrance of the staphylococci into the system, and those which are associated with their localisation in the bones. Constitutional symptoms resulting from the entrance of the staphylococci into the system may be absent, or so slight as to escape recognition. In severe cases they assume the features of delirium and prostration, and the patient may succumb before there is any evidence of the localisation of the staphylococci in the bones. In the great majority of cases of osteomyelitis the onset of the disease is characterised by pain and tenderness on pressure. The pain may develop gradually or suddenly, and it may be so severe as to prevent sleep and cause the child to cry out. Tenderness on pressure is of great value in recognising the seat of the lesion and the part of the bone affected. The constitu- tional symptoms which accompany these local features vary considerably in different cases. The temperature usually rises with a rigor to 102° or 104° F., and runs a very irregular course, with slight morning remissions; the pulse is rapid; there is headache, loss of appetite, vomiting, and sometimes delirium and convulsions. A little later there develop more characteristic local signs, such as swelling in the region of the ossifying junction, oedema of the soft parts, and dilatation of the superficial veins. The