INNOCENT CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOURS. 187 and in sarcomata. Myxomatous tissue is usually a prominent constituent of tire “innocent parotid tumour.” Mucous polypi of the nose, which are often described as myxomata, are merely pendulous processes of oedematous mucous membrane. Myeloma.—A myeloma is a tumour composed of tissue resembling the red marrow of bone. It consists of large multinuclear giant cells surrounded by round and spindle cells. The cut surface of the tumour usually presents a deep red or maroon colour. While occasionally met with in tendon sheaths and bursae, the myeloma occurs most frequently in the cancellous tissue at the ends of the long bones (Fig. 201). Although formerly classified with the sarcomata, it is quite the ex- ception for a myeloma to pre- sent malignant features, and it can usually be extirpated by local measures without fear of recurrence. The method of removal varies with its situation and is considered elsewhere. Myoma. — A myoma is a tumour composed of non-striped muscle fibres. Pure myomata are very rare. They are met with in organs possessed of non-striped muscle, such as the stomach, intestine, urinary bladder, and prostate; in the uterus, which is the most com- mon situation for these tumours, as they contain a considerable admixture of fibrous tissue, they are known as fibroids or fSbro-myonmta (Fig. 34). They present on section a fasciculated appearance which may resemble that of a section of balls of cotton. They are encapsulated and vascular tumours, and they frequently attain a large size. They may be single or multiple. While they may occasion neither inconveni- ence nor suffering, they frequently give rise to profuse haemor- rhage from the uterus, and they may cause serious symptoms by pressing injuriously on the ureters or intestine, or by complicating pregnancy and parturition. The Rhabdomyoma is an extremely rare form of tumour met with in the kidney, uterus, and testicle. It contains striped muscle fibres, and is supposed to originate from a residue of Fig. 34.—Fibro-myoma of Uterus. (Anatomical Museum of the University uf Edinburgh.)