417 TRAUMATIC DISLOCATIONS. to one another. The relationship of the long axis of the hone to the socket is also abnormal. Although any of the subsidiary signs may occur in lesions other than dislocations, due weight must be given to them in making a diagnosis. Loss of function is complete as a rule. Pain is much more intense than in fracture, usually because the displaced bone presses upon nerve trunks, and from the same cause there is often numbness and partial paralysis of the limb beyond. Swelling of the soft parts due to effused blood is usually less marked in dislocation than in fracture, but is often sufficiently great to interfere with diagnostic manipulations. The displaced head, and sometimes the empty socket, may be palpable. Discoloration is usually later of appearing than in fractures. Alteration in the length of the injured limb—usually in the direction of shortening—is a very constant feature ; while girth measurements commonly show an increase. A peculiar soft grating or creaking sensation is often felt on attempting to move the joint. This is due to cartilaginous or ligamentous structures rubbing on one another, and must not be mistaken for the crepitus of a fracture. When the disloca- tion has been reduced, in the great majority of cases, although not in all, the bones retain their proper relations without external support. A careful investigation of the kind of force which produced the injury, particularly as regards its intensity and direction of action, may aid in the diagnosis. In doubtful cases the Rontgen rays often prove useful. Prognosis.—After having been dislocated, a joint is seldom as strong as it was formerly, although for all practical purposes the limb may be as useful as ever. Some degree of stiffness, of limited movement, or of muscular weakness, and occasional arthritic pains, and a liability to redislocation are the com- monest sequelge. Prolonged immobilisation is liable to lead to excessive stiffness by permitting of the formation of adhesions, or of fibrous thickenings of tendons or ligaments; while too early movement tends to produce a laxity of the ligaments which favours redisplacement from slight causes. Treatment.—Reduction should be attempted at the earliest possible moment. Every hour of delay increases the difficulty. The guiding principle is to cause the displaced bone to re-enter its socket by the same route as that by which it left it—that is, through the existing rent in the capsule. This is done by carrying out certain manipulations which depend upon the anatomical arrangement of the parts, and which vary, not only with different joints, but also with different varieties of disloca- YOL. I—27