METHODS OF WOUND TREATMENT. 32 be damaged by beat should be purified by being soaked in 1 in 20 carbolic for at least an hour. After operation the instruments should be boiled, dried, and kept in a dust-proof box or cupboard. Pads of Gauze sterilised by compressed circulating steam have entirely superseded natural sponges for operative purposes. They should be removed from the caskets in which they are sterilised by means of sterilised forceps, and handed direct to the surgeon. The assistant who attends to the swabs should wear sterilised gloves. Ligatures and Sutures.—To avoid the risk of implanting infective material in a wound by means of the materials used for ligatures and sutures, great care must be taken in their preparation. Catgut.—The following methods of preparing catgut have proved satisfactory :—(1) The gut is soaked in juniper oil for at least a month ; the juniper oil is then removed by ether and alcohol; and the gut preserved in 1 in 1000 solution of corrosive sublimate in alcohol (Kocher). (2) The gut is placed in a brass receiver and boiled for three-quarters of an hour in a solution consisting of 85 per cent absolute alcohol, 10 per cent water, and 5 per cent carbolic acid, and is then stored in 90 per cent alcohol. It should be removed from the stock bottle with aseptic forceps and passed direct to the surgeon. Any portion unused should not be returned to the stock bottle. Silk.—If rendered thoroughly sterile, the smaller sizes of silk, Nos. 1 and 2, may safely be used for the ligature of blood- vessels. It is prepared by being soaked for twelve hours in ether, for other -twelve in alcohol, and then boiled for ten minutes in 1 in 1000 sublimate solution. It is then wound on to spools with purified hands protected by sterilised gloves, and kept in absolute alcohol. Before an operation the silk is again boiled for ten minutes in the same solution, and is used directly from this (Kocher). Horse - hair, fishing - gut, silver wire, and other suture materials, as well as the needles, should be boiled along with the instruments. The Field of Operation is surrounded by macintoshes covered over with sterilised towels, securely fixed in position so that no contamination may take place from the surroundings. The surgeon and his assistants, including the anesthetist, should wear over-alls sterilised by steam. The risk of infection from the air is now known to be very small, so long as there is no excess of dust floating in it. All