504 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. a disadvantage. The head of the femur usually leaves the joint at the lower and back part, where the socket is shallowest and the ligaments weakest. The ligamentum teres is almost always torn from its femoral attachment, and one or more of the muscles inserted in the region of the trochanters may be ruptured. The A-shaped ligament, on the other hand, is seldom torn, and so long as it remains intact the dislocation belongs to one or other of the types above-named. All atypical dis- locations, such as the supra-cotyloid, infra-cotyloid, ilio-pectineal, or dislocation on to the ischial tuberosity, are due to rupture of some part of the A-liga- ment, and are so rare as not to call for individual descrip- tion. Like other dislocations, those of the hip may be complicated by laceration of muscles, blood-vessels, or nerves, or by fracture of one or other of the bones in the vicinity. Dislocation onto the Dorsum Ilii.—This, the com- monest form of dislocation of the hip, is usually the result of the patient falling from a height, or receiving a heavy weight on the back while stooping forward with the thigh flexed, adducted, and rotated in. It is also said to occur from muscular action. The shaft of the femur acts as the long limb of a lever of which the neck is the short limb, while the femoral attachment of the A-ligament forms the fulcrum. The head, thus brought to bear upon the lower and back part of the capsule, tears it and leaves the socket, passing upwards in front of the tendon of the obturator internus, and coming to rest on the back of the ilium. The articular surface is directed backward, while the trochanter looks forward. Clinical Features. — The affected limb is flexed, adducted, and rotated inward, so that the knee crosses the lower third of the opposite thigh, and the ball of the great toe lies on the Fig. 151.—Dislocation of Head of Femur. The neck of the hone is grasped by the obturator internus tendon. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)