343 TUBEKCULOUS LUPUS. . .[) The treatment consists in excising the infected sore and in covering the resulting raw surface with a Thiersch graft. Where this is impracticable the infected tissues are removed with the sharp spoon. Tuberculous Lupus.—This is an extremely chronic affection of the skin. It very rarely extends to the lymphatic glands, and of all tuberculous lesions is the least dangerous to life. The commonest form of lupus—lupus vulgaris—usually commences in childhood or youth, and is most often met with on the nose or cheek. The early and typical appearance is that of brownish- yellow or pink nodules in the skin, about the size of a hemp seed. The appearance of the contents of these nodules has been likened by Hutchinson to apple jelly. Their characters are best studied by examining them through a lens pressed firmly against the skin. Microscopical examination of the skin shows the apple-jelly material to consist of aggregations of epithelioid and giant cells over which the epidermis is stretched and thinned. Tubercle bacilli are scanty and difficult to stain. The original nodules tend to fuse together, while fresh ones are formed at the margins. “ The epidermis, as a result of surface irritation in which pus organisms play a prominent part, becomes the seat of a catarrhal process attended with a discharge of pus which dries up, forming yellowish-brown crusts or scabs, and the apple-jelly nodules are thereby concealed ; when the scabs are removed what looks like a raw surface covered with pale granulation tissue is exposed ” (Norman Walker). Healing frequently occurs in the centre of the affected area while the disease is extending at the margins. When there is actual destruction of tissue and ulceration—-the so-called 11 lupus exedens ” or Uulcerans”—healing is attended with cicatricial contraction, which may cause unsightly deformity. When the cheek is affected the lower eyelid may be drawn down and everted; when the lips are affected the mouth may be distorted or seriously diminished in size. When the nose is affected, both the skin and mucous surfaces are usually involved, and the nasal orifices may be narrowed or even obliterated. Sometimes the entire soft parts, including the cartilages, are destroyed, leaving only the bones covered by tightly stretched scar tissue. The disease progresses very slowly, healing in some places and spreading at others. The patient complains of a burning sensa- tion, but of very little pain, and is chiefly concerned about the disfigurement. Nothing is more characteristic of lupus than the appearance of fresh nodules in parts which have already healed.