553 ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. That staphylococci may persist in the bone marrow in a condition of potential vitality for months or years must be assumed, otherwise the outbreak of acute osteomyelitis soon after an injury would in many cases be impossible of explana- tion. That they are capable of lying latent is also evidenced by the fact that the disease may break out afresh, on one or on several occasions, after apparent cure of the original attack. The long tubular bones are affected in the following order of frequency:—The lower end of the femur, or either end of the tibia; the upper end of the humerus ; the ulna, the fibula, the radius ; the metatarsals, metacarpals, or phalanges. The other bones of the skeleton, such as the skull, ribs, and pelvis, are only affected in rare instances. The disease is common in children, but is rare after the skeleton has at- tained maturity. Males are affected more often than females in the propor- tion of three to one, probably because they are more exposed to injury and to violent exertion. The disease does not necessarily pick out the weakly, but may affect robust children. It not uncommonly, however, follows other infective diseases, such as scarlet fever or typhoid. Pathology.—It must be emphasised that during the period of growth this disease nearly always commences in the marrow, suppuration under the periosteum being usually a secondary manifestation, even although, as often happens, the symptoms of periosteal suppura- tion predominate clinically. As a rule, the disease commences and is most intense in the ossifying junction at one end of the bone. It may commence at both ends simultaneously—bipolar osteo- myelitis—or at one end and spread to the other. Osteomyelitis in the marrow of the epiphysis itself (acute epiphysitis) is rare as an independent lesion. When acute osteomyelitis attacks a long bone during the period of growth, the changes observed in the marrow are those of intense inflammation, gradually going on to purulent inflit ra- Fig. 178.—Acute Bipolar Os- teomyelitis of Tibiae, showing separation of epiphyses.