281 TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. Anel’s operation—-proximal ligature close to the sac—has been practically abandoned, as the cases to which it is suitable can be treated with greater safety and certainty by the old operation. The advantages of Hunter’s operation—one of the epoch- making operations of surgery—have been largely discounted by the employment of antiseptic methods of operating. Its chief claim is its simplicity, the ligature being applied to a healthy part of the artery whose relations are undisturbed by the proximity of the aneurysm—for example, ligature of the femoral in Scarpa’s triangle or in Hunter’s canal, for popliteal aneurysm. The distance between the seat of ligature and the sac renders the establishment of a collateral circulation through intervening branches easy and rapid, and this, while it diminishes the risk of gangrene, permits the access of fresh blood to the aneurysm before there is time for an occluding clot to be formed or organised. The cure, therefore, is not certain ; and even when a clot forms it may be only temporary, and may disappear, so that pulsation in the sac soon returns. This “ recurrent pulsation ” after ligature of an artery may be due to imperfect occlusion of the vessel at the seat of ligature, to too early absorption of the catgut ligature allowing the vessel to become pervious again, to the rapid establishment of a free collateral circulation, or to the reabsorption of the clot which temporarily occluded the artery. The operation of ligature of an artery in its continuity is performed through an incision which usually runs more or less in the long axis of the vessel. The part of the artery to which the ligature is to be applied is exposed by dissection, care being taken to avoid opening up the cellular planes in the tissues more than is absolutely necessary. The vessel is recognised by its pulsation, and a portion sufficiently cleared of its sheath to enable the aneurysm needle to be passed without force. The wall of the vessel should be disturbed as little as possible, to avoid damaging the vasa vasorum through which it is nourished. The needle—-threaded or unthreaded according to circumstances —is passed round the vessel from the side on which the most important structures lie. Where there is a single large vein accompanying the artery the needle is passed from the side on which the vein lies. Where there are venae comites the presence of a nerve trunk on one or other side will determine the direction in which the needle is passed. The ligature—silk or chromicised catgut—is tied in a reef knot or in a stay knot.