CAUSES OF ULCERS. 75 to side of the ulcer. The outline is irregular; small perforations often occur through the skin, and a thin, watery discharge, containing grey shreds of tuberculous debris, escapes. The syphilitic ulcer is usually formed by the breaking down of a cutaneous or subcutaneous gumma. It is at first covered by a tough greyish slough, compared to “ wash leather,” which slowly separates and leaves a more or less circular, deep, punched-out gap which shows a few feeble unhealthy granulations and small sloughs on its floor. The edges are raised and indurated ; and the discharge is thick, glairy, and peculiarly offensive. The parts around the ulcer are congested and of a dark - brown colour. There are usually several such ulcers together, and as they tend to heal at one part while they spread at another, the affected area assumes a sinuous or ser- piginous outline. Syphilitic ulcers may be met with in any part of the body, but are most frequent in the upper part of the leg (Fig. 15), especially around the knee-joint in women, and over the ribs and sternum. On healing they usually leave a depressed cicatrix. The scorbutic ulcer occurs in patients suffering from scurvy, and is characterised chiefly by its marked tendency to bleed. In gouty patients small ulcers which are exceedingly irritable and painful are liable to occur. Other ulcers related to special morbid diatheses need not be specified here. Ulcers associated with Malignant Dis- ease.—Certain malignant tumours, such as scirrhus of the breast, epithelioma of the Fig. 15.—Ulcers of Leg tongue or lip, and some sarcomata, U a patient suffering trequently invade the skin or mucous membrane, and appear on the surface as open, vascular sores. These are sometimes spoken of as malignant ulcers, but as they are essentially different in their nature from all other forms of ulcers, and call for totally different treatment, it is best to consider them along with the tumours with which they are associated. Rodent ulcer,