ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. 167 ulcer ” which occurs almost exclusively ou the lower third of the leg; from a form of chronic ulcer of the leg met with especially in girls of delicate constitution, and which has been called Bazin’s disease; from the ulcers which result from certain forms of malignant disease, such as rodent cancer, and finally from those met with in chronic glanders. The tertiary ulcers of mucous membranes as seen in the tongue or rectum are, on the whole, less characteristic than those met with in the skin. Gummatous Infiltration of the Skin (“ syphilitic lupus ”).— This is a lesion, chiefly met with in the face and in the region of the external genitals, in which the skin becomes infiltrated with granulation tissue so that it is thickened, raised above the surface, and acquires a brownish-red colour. It appears as isolated nodules, which may fuse together; the epidermis becomes scaly and is shed, giving rise to superficial ulcers, which are usually covered by crusted discharge. The disease tends to spread, creeping over the skin with a serpiginous, crescentic or horseshoe margin, while the central portion may heal and leave a scar. When untreated the lesion is a very persistent and destructive one. From the fact of its healing in the centre while it spreads at the margin, it may simulate tuberculous disease of the skin. The syphilitic affection can usually be differentiated by observing that the infiltration of the skin is on a larger scale; the progress of the disease is much more rapid, involving in the course of months an area which in the case of tuberculosis would require as many years; the scars formed are sounder and are less liable to break down again; and, finally, the disease rapidly yields to anti-syphilitic treatment. Tertiary lesions of mucous membranes and of the submucous cellular tissue are chiefly met with in the tongue, nose, throat, larynx, and rectum. They originate as gummata or as gum- matous infiltrations which are liable to break down and lead to the formation of ulcers which may prove locally destructive, and, in such situations as the larynx, even dangerous to life. In the case of the tongue the tertiary ulcer may prove the starting- point of cancer ; and in the larynx or rectum the healing of the ulcer may be associated with serious cicatricial stenosis or stricture of the passage affected. Tertiary lesions of the bones and joints, of the muscles, and of the interned organs will be described under these heads. The part played by syphilis in the production of atheroma and of aneurysm will be referred to along with diseases of blood-vessels. Diagnosis.—From the enormous diversity in the nature and seat of the lesions met with in tertiary syphilis, it is impossible