314 THE NERVES. according to the interval of time which elapses between the divi- sion of the nerve and the approximation and union of its ends. If the wound becomes infected before union is completed, the young tissue between the ends is converted into scar tissue, the conducting paths are not reproduced, and a condition similar to that described under the next heading results. When the ends of the divided nerve are not in contact, reunion of the divided nerve fibres does not take place whether the wound is septic or aseptic. Between the ends .there is a mass of newly-formed con- nective tissue, which varies in amount ac- cording to the duration of the reparative process and the length of time the ends re- main apart. The proximal end of the nerve forms a bulbous swelling, which becomes adherent to the general scar tissue, and con- sists of branching axis cylinders running in all directions. These have failed to reach the distal end because of the dis- tance between them. The peri- pheral end is completely degener- ated, and is represented by a fibrous cord, the cut end of which is often slightly swollen or bulbous, and is also incorporated with the general scar tissue of the wound. In the case of nerves divided in an amputation there is an active, although necessarily abortive, at- tempt at regeneration, which results in the formation of bulbous swell- ings at the cut ends of the nerves. When there has been suppuration, and especially if the nerves have been cut low down so as to be exposed in the wound, these bulbous swellings may attain an abnormal size, and are then known as “amputation” or “stump neuromata.” When a nerve is only partially divided, those fibres which are severed form new axis-cylinder processes, which are con- ducted across the gap by the intact fibres. When a nerve is torn across or is badly crushed—as, for example, by a fractured bone—the changes are very similar to those in a divided nerve, and the ultimate result depends on the amount of separation between the ends and the possibility of the young axis cylinders bridging across the gap. Fig. 56.—Stump Neuromata of Sciatic Nerve, excised forty years after the original amputa- tion by Mr. A. G. Miller.