ANKYLOSIS. 607 Conditions of Impaired Mobility of Joints.—Rigidity is the fixation of a joint by the involuntary contraction of muscles. It is sometimes called false ankylosis because it disappears completely under anaesthesia. It is of special value as a sign of disease in deep-seated joints, such as the hip. Contracture is the term applied when the fixation is due to permanent pathological changes in the soft parts surrounding the joint. These changes chiefly consist in shortening of muscles, tendons and their sheaths, ligaments, fasciae, and skin. As the structures on the flexor aspect are specially liable to undergo shortening, contracture is nearly always associated with flexion. Contracture may result from a number of conditions apart from disease of the joint—for example, from disease in one or other of the adjacent bones, from lesions of the motor nervous mechanism, or from hysteria. Ankylosis is the term applied when impaired mobility of a joint results from changes involving the articular surfaces. It is frequently combined with contracture and with thickening and induration of the capsular and other ligaments. Three anatomical varieties of ankylosis are distinguished —(a) Thq fibrous, in which there are fibrous adhesions between the oppos- ing surfaces. These adhesions may be in the form of loose isolated bands, or they may bind the bones closely together in such a way as to obliterate completely the cavity of the joint. The resulting stiffness may vary, therefore, from a mere restriction of the normal range of movement up to a close fibrous union of the bones which altogether prevents movement. Fibrous ankylosis may follow upon injury, especially dislocations and fractures implicating a joint, or may result from any form of arthritis. (b) Cartilaginous ankylosis implies the fusion of two opposed cartilaginous surfaces. It is best seen between the patella and trochlear surface of the femur in certain forms of tuberculous disease of the knee. The fusion of the cartilaginous surfaces is preceded by the spreading of a vascular connective tissue, derived from the synovial membrane, over the articular surfaces. Clinically, it is associated with ab- Fig. 206.—Osseous Ankylosis of Femur and Tibia.