INFLAMMATION. 46 although tenderness is usually present; and heat and discolora- tion are but slight. General constitutional disturbance is absent or inconsiderable, and the interference with function varies in degree with the tissue or organ affected. All the clinical features depend for their severity on the particular disease with which the inflammatory process is associated. Treatment of Chronic Inflammation.—In treating a chronic inflammation, the indications are (1) to remove the cause, and (2) to get rid of the inflammatory deposits in the tissues. When the cause is the presence of a specific infective organism, such as the tubercle bacillus, its complete removal is only possible by operation, and if this be inexpedient at the time, our efforts must be directed to aid the tissues to resist its action. The general hygiene of the patient must receive careful at- tention ; and the part must be ensured complete physical and physiological rest, in such a position as will favour the blood- flow through it. The removal of inflammatory products is stimulated by the use of counter-irritants, in the form of mustard leaves, blisters, or the actual cautery, according to the degree of irritation re- quired. A mustard leaf or plaster should not be left on longer than ten or fifteen minutes, unless it is desired to produce a blister. Blistering may be produced by a cantharidis plaster, or by painting with liquor epispasticus. The plaster should be left on for from eight to ten hours, and if it has failed to raise a blister, a hot fomentation should be applied to the part. Liquor epispasticus alone, or mixed with equal parts of collodion, is painted on the part with a brush. Several paintings are often required before a blister is raised. The removal of the natural grease from the skin by ether favours the action of these appli- cations. The actual cautery is employed at a white heat, care being taken that the whole thickness of the skin is not destroyed. Corrigan’s button cautery is employed to produce vesication, and is used at a black heat. The internal administration of potassium iodide is often a useful adjuvant to local treatment, even in cases which are not syphilitic. Pressure.—When the inflammatory process has been arrested, absorption of the products may be promoted by firmly-applied pressure, either by means of an elastic bandage over a moderately- thick layer of cotton-wool, or by adhesive strapping. In certain cases of joint disease, pressure, combined with counter-irritation, is employed in the form of Scott’s dressing. This application