110 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. is great oedema of the face, the eyes becoming closed up, and the features unrecognisable. The inflammation may spread to the meninges, the intracranial venous sinuses, the eye, or the ear, and so add to the immediate risks, and lead to serious after-consequences. In some cases the erysipelas invades the mucous membrane of the mouth, and spreads to the fauces and larynx, setting up an oedema of the glottis which may prove fatal. Erysipelas neonatorum occurs in the region of the umbilicus in young infants, and usually proves fatal. In puerperal women the infection may occur in the genital tract and give rise to a dangerous form of puerperal sepsis. Complications.—Diffuse suppurative cellulitis is the most serious local complication, and results from a mixed infection with pyogenic bacteria. Small localised superficial abscesses frequently form during the convalescent stage. They are doubtless due to the action of skin bacteria which attack the tissues devitalised by the erysipelas. A persistent form of oedema sometimes remains after recurrent attacks of erysipelas, especially when they affect the face or the lower extremity. This condition is referred to again ■with elephantiasis. Differential Diagnosis.—Any acute inflammatory condition implicating the skin may be mistaken for erysipelas, but a careful consideration of the clinical features will usually prevent serious error. In septic erythema, for example, the redness, instead of being sharply defined, gradually fades away towards the margins. Acute spreading gangrene and acute osteo- myelitis have been mistaken for erysipelas. Treatment.—The first indication in treatment is to arrest the spread of the process. By painting with linimentum iodi, a ring half an inch broad, about an inch in front of the peripheral tender zone—not the red margin—an artificial leucocytosis is produced, and the advancing streptococci are thereby arrested. Several coats of the iodine are applied, one after the other, and this is repeated daily for several days, even although the erysipelas has not overstepped the ring. Success depends upon using the liniment of iodine (the tincture is not strong enough), and in applying it well in front of the disease. Scarification of the skin in front of the spreading margin acts in the same way, but is painful, and requires a general anaesthetic. Local applications of strong antiseptics, such as 1 in 20 carbolic lotion, or 1 in 1000 corrosive sublimate, have also been employed for the same purpose. To prevent infection with additional pyogenic organisms, any