NEW GROWTHS W SKIN. .351 Moles vary greatly in size : some are mere dots, others are as large as the palm of the hand, and occasionally a mole covers half the face or trunk. In addition to being unsightly, they bleed freely when abraded, are liable to ulcerate from friction and pressure, and are apt to become the starting-point of melanotic cancer. The slightly pigmented moles met with on the face may become the starting-point of rodent cancer. Over- growths in relation to the cutaneous nerves, especially the plexiform neuroma, occasionally originate in pigmented moles. Soldau believes that the pigmentation and overgrowth of the epidermis in moles are associated with, and probably result from, a fibromatosis of the cutaneous nerves. Treatment.—The best way to get rid of a mole is to excise it. If the edges of the gap cannot be brought together with sutures, recourse should be had to Thiersch grafting. In large hairy moles of the face whose size forbids excision, the hairs may be got rid of by the Rontgen rays, or by the plan suggested by Victor Horsley, which consists in reflecting a flap of skin in- cluding the mole, and shaving away its deep aspect until the hair follicles are removed ; after which the flap is replaced and sutured. Although the pigmentation remains there is no further growth of hair. Horns.—Four varieties of cutaneous horn are described by Bland Sutton. The sebaceous horn results from the accumulation of the dried contents of a wen on the surface of the skin. The sebaceous material after drying up becomes cornified, and as fresh material is added to the base the horn increases in length. The wart horn grows from a warty papilloma of the skin. Cicatrix horns are formed by the heaping up of epidermis in the scars which result from burns. Nail horns are overgrown nails (keratomata of the nail bed), and are chiefly met with in the great toe of elderly bed-ridden patients. A horn may be the starting-point of epithelioma which originates in relation to an ulcer at its base. The horn should be removed with or without the area of skin around its base. New Growths in the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue.— Fibroma.—Various types of fibroma are met with in the skin. Soft pedunculated fibromata, about the size of a pea, are very commonly met with, especially on the neck and trunk ; they are usually solitary, and are of no clinical importance. The multiple soft fibromata, known as molluscum fibrosum, which depend upon a neuro-fibromatosis of the cutaneous nerves, are described with the tumours of nerves. Hard fibromata occurring singly or in groups may be met with, especially in the skin of the