GOUTY ARTHRITIS. 633 is complicated by the occurrence of pyogenic infection and necrosis of bone. In the knee-joint the patella, or one of the condyles of the femur or tibia, may furnish a sequestrum, which, by involving the articular surface, imparts to the disease a persistent character. In such cases anti-syphilitic treatment must be supplemented by operative measures directed to the removal of the diseased tissues. In the case of the knee ex- cision is rarely called for; but in the elbow it may be performed in order to obtain a movable joint. In inherited syphilis the earliest joint affections are associated with the epiphysitis of young infants. There may be an effusion into the adjacent joint, especially iu the knee or elbow; and in exceptional cases pyogenic infection may be superadded, and pus form in the joint. In children, a serous synovitis or hydrops may develop in the knee of one or both sides, some- times in the earlier period along with iritis, sometimes at a later period along with interstitial keratitis. It is very chronic, scarcely causes any symptoms, and disappears under treatment without impairment of the functions of the joint. The tertiary or gummatous joint lesions in inherited syphilis are the same as have been described in the acquired disease. Joint Diseases accompanying certain Constitutional Conditions. Gout—Arthritis Urica.—Gout is a constitutional disease in which the joints are liable to be attacked with inflammation associated with the deposit of urate of soda. The characteristic lesion is the presence in the joint structures of a chalk-like material composed of sodium bi-urate. This is chiefly observed in the articular cartilage, either in streaks or patches towards the central area of the joint, or over the entire extent of the cartilage, which appears as if it had been painted over with plaster of Paris. The urates are really deposited in the substance of the cartilage, and not on its free surface. The superficial layer is at first intact, but is liable to degenerate and necrose, forming what is known as a gouty ulcer, which may extend deeply into the substance of the bone. The deposit of urates in the synovial membrane is usually attended with effusion into the joint. In the ligaments and tissues around the joint the deposit of urates leads to the overgrowth of fibrous tissue and the formation of adhesions. The metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe on one or both sides is that most frequently affected.