43 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TREATMENT. struggle with the bacteria by a plentiful supply of healthy bloocl passing through them. To this end the part must be placed in such a position that no mechanical obstruction is offered to the circulation. An inflamed limb must be elevated to favour the venous return, and all bandages, splints, or other appliances must be so designed as to favour, and not to retard, the blood- flow. Blood-letting.—In some cases more active aid must be given to the circulation by the relief of congestion by blood-letting, which may be general or local. General blood-letting consists in opening a superficial vein (venesection) and allowing from eight to ten ounces of blood to flow from it. The median basilic vein is usually selected for this purpose. A ligature is tied round the upper arm to distend the vessel, which is then opened by an oblique incision through the skin. After the desired amount of blood has been withdrawn, the ligature is removed, the elbow flexed, a pad of antiseptic gauze firmly bandaged over the incision, and the arm is carried in a sling for a few days. Local blood-letting is a commoner surgical practice than venesection, and may be effected by leeches, cupping, or incision. Before applying leeches the part must be thoroughly cleansed, and if the leech is slow to bite, may be smeared with cream. The leech is retained in position under an inverted wine-glass or wide test-tube till it takes hold. After it has sucked its fill it usually drops off, having withdrawn about a dram or a dram and a half of blood. If it be desirable to withdraw more blood, hot fomentations should be immediately applied to the bite. As it is sometimes necessary to employ considerable pressure to stop bleeding from a leech bite, leeches should, if possible, be applied over a bone which will furnish the necessary resistance. The use of styptics may be called for. Cupping.—Two methods of cupping are employed—dry and wet. In dry cupping a small tumbler, the inside edge of which has previously been oiled, has a piece of blotting-paper soaked in methylated spirit placed in it and ignited. While still burning the tumbler is inverted and pressed firmly over the part to be cupped. The burning of the air and the subsequent cooling create a partial vacuum inside the glass, and the skin and subcutaneous tissue full of blood and fluid are drawn into it. To release the glass the finger-nail is gently inserted under its edge. In wet cupping the skin is scarified by a lancet before the