232 CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURIES. pations or absent friends is a common manifestation of the condition. Delirium Tremens is seen in persons addicted to alcohol who, as a result of accident or operation, are suddenly compelled to lie in bed for some time. Although oftenest met with in habitual drunkards or chronic tipplers, it is by no means uncommon in moderate drinkers, and has even been seen in children who have been supplied with alcohol. Clinical Features.—The delirium, which has been aptly de- scribed as being of a “busy” character, usually first manifests itself within a few days of the patient being laid up. For two or three days he refuses food, is depressed, suspicious, sleepless and restless, desiring to be allowed out of bed. Then he begins to mutter incoherently, to pull off the bedclothes, and to attempt to rise. There is general muscular tremor, most marked in the tongue, the lips, and the hands. The patient imagines that he sees all sorts of horrible beings around him, and is sometimes greatly distressed because of rats, mice, beetles, or snakes which he fancies are crawling over him. The pulse is soft, rapid, and compressible; the temperature is only moderately raised (100°- 101° F.), and as a rule there is profuse sweating. The digestion is markedly impaired, and there is often vomiting. Patients in this condition are peculiarly insusceptible to pain, and may even walk about with a fractured leg without apparent discomfort. In most cases the symptoms begin to pass off in three or four days; the patient sleeps, the hallucinations and tremors cease, and he gradually recovers. In other cases the temperature rises, the pulse becomes running, and death results from exhaustion. The main indication in treatment is to secure sleep, by the administration of bromides, chloral, trional, paraldehyde, or sulphonal. In some cases hyoscin injected hypodermically has been found useful. Morphin must be used with great caution. At the same time the patient must be encouraged to take plenty of easily-digested fluid food ; the quantity being supplemented by ngtrient enemata if necessary. In the early stage a brisk mercurial purge is often of great value. Alcohol should be withheld entirely, unless failing of the pulse strongly indicates its use, and then it should be given in the food. Delirious patients must be constantly watched by a trained attendant or other competent person, lest they get out of bed and do harm to themselves. Mechanical restraint is often necessary, but must be avoided if possible, as it is apt to increase the excitement and exhaust the patient. On account of the