INJURIES OF BONES. 396 any risk of unduly moving the injured part, they should be slit open along the seams. The patient should be placed on a firm straw, horse-hair, or spring mattress, stiffened in the case of fractures of the spine, pelvis, or lower limbs, by strong wooden fracture-boards inserted between the mattress and the frame of the bed. Special mattresses constructed in four pieces, to facilitate the nursing of the patient, are sometimes used. Feather beds are to be avoided as utterly unsuitable in the treatment of fractures. In many cases, particularly in very muscular subjects, in restless alcoholic patients, and in those who do not bear pain well, a general anaesthetic is a valuable aid to the rapid and accurate setting of a fracture, as well as a means of rendering the diagnosis more certain. The procedure popularly known as “ setting a fracture ” consists in restoring the displaced parts to their normal position, and is spoken of technically as the reduction of the fracture. After reduction has been effected appropriate means must be taken to retain the parts in position. The Reduction of a Fracture.—In some cases the displacement may be completely overcome by relaxing the muscles acting upon the fragments. In most cases, however, it is necessary, after relaxing the muscles, to employ extension, by making forcible but steady traction on the distal fragment, while counter-extension is exerted on the proximal one, either by an assistant pulling upon that portion of the limb, or by the weight of the patient’s body. The fragments having been freed, and any shortening of the limb corrected in this way, the broken ends are moulded into position—a process termed coaptation. The reduction of a recent greenstick fracture consists in forcibly straightening the bend in the bone. In greenstick fractures which have been left for some time unreduced, so long as the deformity is moderate in degree no active treatment is necessary, as there is a tendency for the bone gradually to become straight as it grows. When the deformity is excessive, however, it is necessary to correct it by rebending, or, if necessary, breaking or dividing the bone and resetting it. In certain cases of impacted fracture, which will be specified later, it is not advisable to undo the impaction. In selecting a means of retaining a fracture in position after its reduction, the various factors which tend to bring about re-displacement must be taken into consideration, and appropriate measures adopted to counteract each of these. Thus it may be that the fragments, being oblique, tend to glide past one another ; that