324 THE NERVES. spinal canal, and the sympathetic nerves and ganglia, as well as the continuations of the motor nerves within the muscles. The nerve fibres, although mechanically displaced and dissociated by the overgrown endoneurium, usually undergo no structural change. The disease probably originates before birth, although it may not make its appearance till adolescence or even adult life. It is sometimes met with in several members of one family. It is recognised clinically by the presence of multiple tumours in the course of the nerves, and sometimes by palpable enlargement of the superficial nerve trunks (Fig. 57). The tumours closely resemble the solitary trunk neuromata, and they often remain quite insensitive. As a result of injury or other exciting cause, however, one or other tumour may increase in size and become extremely sensitive. The pain is much increased by Fig. 57.—Diffuse Enlargement of Nerves in generalised Neuro-Fibromatosis. (After E. W. Smith.) handling, and may interfere with sleep. Motor disturbances are exceptional, unless in the case of tumours within the spinal canal, which sometimes cause paraplegia. Neuro-fibromatosis is frequently accompanied by pigmentation of the skin in the form of brown spots or patches. The disease is often stationary for long periods. In pro- gressive cases the patient becomes exhausted, and usually dies of some intercurrent affection such as phthisis. The treatment is restricted to relieving symptoms and complications. In a considerable proportion of cases one or other of the multiple tumours takes on the characters of a malignant growth (“secondary malignant neuroma,” Garre). This malignant transformation may follow upon injury, or on the incomplete removal of the tumour. The features are those of a rapidly growing sarcoma involving a nerve trunk, with agonising pain and muscular cramps, followed by paralysis from destruction of the nerve fibres. The removal of the tumour is usually followed by recurrence both in the nerve affected and in other