352. THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. buttock, and may present a local malignancy, recurring on removal like the “recurrent fibroid” of Paget. The “painful subcutaneous nodule ” is a solitary fibroma related to one of the cutaneous nerves. The hard fibroma known as keloid is described with the affections of scars. Papilloma.—The common wart or verruca is an outgrowth of the surface epidermis. It may be sessile or pedunculated, hard or soft. The surface may be smooth, or fissured and foliated like a cauliflower, or it may be divided up into a number of spines. Warts are chiefly met with on the hands and face, and are often multiple, occurring in clusters or in successive crops. Multiple warts appear to result from some contagion, the nature of which is unknown ; they sometimes occur in an epidemic form among school children. They show a remarkable tendency to disappear spontaneously. The solitary flat-topped wart which occurs on the face of old people may, if irritated, become the seat of epithelioma. Treatment.—In the multiple warts of children the health should be braced up by a change to the seaside. A dusting powder, consisting of boracic acid with five per cent, salicylic acid, may be rubbed into the hands after washing and drying. The persistent warts of young adrdts are best removed with scissors after freezing with chloride of ethyl. When cutting is objected to they should be painted night and morning with salicylic collodion, the epidermis being dehydrated with alcohol before each application. Venereal warts occur on the genitals of either sex, and may form large cauliflower-like masses on the inner surface of the prepuce or of the labia majora. Although frequently coexisting with gonorrhoea or syphilis, they may occur independently of these diseases, being probably acquired by contact with another individual suffering from warts (C. W. Cathcart). They give rise to considerable irritation and suffering, and when cleanli- ness is neglected they may be attended with an offensive discharge. In advanced cases with large cauliflower-like masses it is best to remove them. In the female they are dissected off from the labia ; in the male the prepuce is removed and the warts on the glans are snipped off with scissors. In milder cases the warts usually disappear if the parts are kept absolutely dry and clean. A useful dusting-powder is one consisting of calamine and five per cent, salicylic acid. The exsiccated sulphate of iron may be employed in cases which resist this treatment. Lastly, a warty growth of the epidermis may be an accom- paniment of lupus—lupus verrucosus—and of moles.