729 HAMMER-TOE. also be shortened, their division does not permit of the deformity being corrected. Hammer-toe is usually ascribed to the use of ill-fitting boots, especially those which are median-pointed and are too short for the feet. There appears to be an inherited predisposition to this deformity in some individuals. Treatment.—While corrective manipulations, strapping, and the use of splints may be of service in slight cases, it is usually necessary to perform an opera- tion iu order to extend the toe permanently. The antiseptic preparation of the part must include the application of pure carbolic acid to any discharging sinus in relation to the corn or bursa. The lateral and glenoid ligaments are divided subcut- aneously ; and if the toe can be straightened easily, the foot is secured to a poroplastic or metal splint moulded to the sole and provided with longitudinal slots opposite the intervals on either side of the toe affected. The toe is drawn down to the splint by passing a loop of cotton or elastic bandage round the toe and through the slots. In many cases the contraction of all the tissues on the plantar aspect, including the skin, prevents the toe being straightened even after division of the ligaments. It is then necessary to remove the head and neck of the first phalanx through a lateral incision. We have found this to be the most satisfactory method of treat- ing hammer-toe ; the results are excellent, and the patient is able to go about again at the end of a week. In aggravated cases, and when the patient desires to be rid of the toe, it should be amputated at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. A pad of cotton wool should then be worn in the vacant space to prevent the ad- jacent toes falling together and the development of hallux valgus. Hypertrophy of the Toes.—One or more of the toes may be the seat of hypertrophy or local giantism. This is usually Fig. 258.—Congenital Hypertrophy of Left Lower Extremity in a boy set. 5. The second and third toes are fused with one another.