713 TALIPES EQUINO-VABUS. lysis varies in different cases. If the deformity is easily corrected, and the paralysis is confined to the extensor and peronei muscles, satisfactory results are obtained by re-enforcing the paralysed muscles by those which are still active—trans- plantation of tendons (Nicoladoni). For exam*, the tendo Achillis may be split longitudinally, one-half of it cut across and attached to the distal end of the divided peroneus longus ; or the flexor longus hallucis may be spliced into the tibialis anticus or the tibialis posticus into the extensor longus digitorum. If the paralysis is more widely dis- tributed, and the ankle and tarsal joints are flail-like, it is better to ankylose the calcaneo-astragaloid and ankle-joints by arthrodesis (Albert). It may be necessary to divide the plantar fascia and other structures which have undergone secondary shortening. The after-treatment is of great im- portance ; it consists in massage, douch- ing, exercises, and electric stimulation of the muscles. As great improvement usually results from the use of the limb, the patient should be got on to his feet as soon as possible. The equino-varus which results from spastic paralysis is much less frequently met with. In contrast to the flaccid con- dition presented in cases of infantile paralysis, the muscles are here the seat of a persistent spasm which gradually merges into contracture. Deformity results from certain groups of muscles—the plantar flexors and invertors—getting the upper hand and distorting the foot into the equino-varus attitude (Fig. 241). The heel is markedly drawn up, the anterior part of the foot is adducted and inverted at the mid-tarsal joint. The muscles are tense and rigid, and the tendon reflexes are exaggerated. The condition is frequently bilateral, and is often associated with other deformities of the lower limb and with a characteristic spastic gait. In selected cases, considerable improvement may be brought about by division of the tendons of the shortened muscles. In severe cases it may be necessary to resect a portion of the tarsus or to remove the foot by Pirogoff’s amputation. Fig. 248.—Infantile Para- lysis of Riglit Lower Ex- tremity in a girl set. 15. The limb is short and wasted, and the foot is in the position of equino- varus.