671 THE HIP-JOINT. there is a gross lesion in the head or neck of the bone, the neck is divided with a wire saw or chisel, and the head is removed. The remaining disease having been got rid of, the raw surface of the neck is implanted in the socket, or is made to lie op- posite to it. This operation is described as an excision of the joint. After either of these operations the limb is fixed in an attitude of marked abduction, so that when the patient resumes the erect posture he will be obliged to depress the pelvis on the affected side, in order to restore the parallelism of the limbs, and so to compensate, in part at any rate, for the shortening caused by the operation. Amputation for tuberculous disease of the hip has become one of the rarest operations of surgery. It may still be required in cases which have continued to progress after excision, where there is disease of the pelvis or of the shaft of the femur, with septic sinuses, albuminuria, and hectic fever. In such cases the surgeon must be prepared not only to disarticulate at the hip-joint, but also to remove a portion of, or the entire innominate bone. Such extensive operations are usually carried out by some form of racket incision, which permits of the ligature of the main vessels as a preliminary measure. They are, however, very seldom justifiable. The Correction of Deformity resulting from Antecedent Disease of the Hip.—The deformities concerned have been already de- scribed as accompaniments of hip disease. From neglect or from improper treatment they may have been allowed to persist, while the joint disease has recovered. They are associated either with ankylosis of the joint, or contracture of the soft parts, or with a combination of these conditions. The contracture of the soft parts specially involves the tendons, fasciae, and ligaments on the anterior and inner aspects of the joint, and is usually present to such a degree that even if the joint were rendered mobile these shortened structures would prevent correction of the deformity. It should be borne in mind that the difficulties of correction are so considerable that it should not be attempted unless the deformity is a serious hindrance to locomotion or a bar to remunerative occupation. The deformity most often present consists in a combination of shortening, flexion, and adduction. If flexion is the prominent feature it may be corrected by performing an osteotomy through the neck of the femur (Adam’s operation), or through the trochanter if the neck of the bone has disappeared. The contracted soft parts are divided, either by subcutaneous or by open tenotomy; after which the limb is