692 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. waddling, like that of a duck, the trunk lurching from one side to the other as the head of the femur glides upwards on the ilium with each step. The diagnosis is easy except in young children who are very fat. In cases of rickets with marked lordosis the gait may be waddling, but the trochanter is not displaced above Nekton’s line, and the head of the bone is in its normal position. In coxa vara the limb is shortened and the trochanter is displaced upwards, but the head of the femur may be felt to be in the acetabulum, and cannot be made to move up and down; the limb is rotated out, and abduction is more restricted than in dislocation. Any doubt will be cleared up by using the X-rays (Fig. 235). In the flail joint of infantile paralysis the resemblance to congenital dislocation may be very close indeed ; the muscles, however, are more wasted and are slack, and the normal attitude can be easily restored by pulling on the limb. In hip disease the movements at the joint are restricted or absent, f Prognosis.—The deformity and disability become more and more pronounced as the capsular and round ligaments become further stretched by the weight of the body in standing and walking. With increasing years the patient suffers from fatigue and pain on using the limb, and so may be unable to undertake any occupation involving much standing or walking. The sooner the affection is recognised and treated the greater is the prospect of cure. Treatment.—The most rational and satisfactory treatment is to reduce the dislocation by manipulation, or, if this ideal result is not attainable, to displace the head of the bone into such a position that it will no longer glide upwards on the ilium. Paci, Schede, Mikulicz, Lorenz, and Hoffa have specially developed the treatment of congenital dislocation on these lines. Reduction by Manipulation.—The child is anaesthetised; extension is applied to the leg through the medium of a hank of worsted above the malleoli and counter-extension to the trunk by means of a perineal band ; the traction is gradually increased until the trochanter is brought down to the level of Nekton’s line. When this is accomplished the limb spontaneously assumes the abducted position and the prominence of the trochanter disappears, and in its place there is a marked depression. During this procedure the adductor tendons stand out like cords, and should either be stretched by firmly pressing on them with the thumbs or divided subcutaneously. The head of the femur, having been brought down to the level of the acetabulum, is made to turn towards the socket by