153 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. applied. When suppuration takes place, the pus must be evacuated by one or more incisions parallel to Poupart’s ligament, undermined skin must be cut away, lind if the glands are found lying exposed in the abscess cavity they should be removed. The cavity is scrubbed out with pure carbolic acid and lightly packed with iodoform worsted. The results of operations for the complete removal of the glands have not been altogether satisfactory. It is important to bear in mind the possibility of a patient having acquired a mixed infection—the virus of the soft chancre, which will manifest itself a few days after infection, and the virus of syphilis, which will show itself after an interval of several weeks. This occurrence was formerly the source of much confu- sion in diagnosis, and it was believed at one time that syphilis might result from soft sores, but we now know that syphilis does not follow upon soft sores unless the virus of syphilis has been introduced at the same time. The practitioner must be on his guard, therefore, when a patient asks his advice concerning a venereal sore which has appeared within a few days of exposure to infection. Such a patient is naturally anxious to know whether lie has contracted syphilis or not, but neither a positive nor a negative answer can be given until the incubation period of syphilis has elapsed—that is, not until after an interval of four or five weeks. In typical cases where there is a clear history of an incubation period of three to five weeks since infection, when the sore is indurated, persistent, and indolent, and is attended with bullet- buboes in the groin, the diagnosis of primary syphilis is not difficult. Apprehensive patients who have committed sexual indiscretions are apt to regard as syphilitic any lesion which happens to be located on the penis—for example, acne pustules, eczema, psoriasis papules, boils, balanitis, herpes, and warts. Syphilis is also to lie diagnosed from epithelioma, the common form of cancer of the penis. It is especially in elderly patients with a tight prepuce that one is liable to mistake the induration of epithelioma for that associated with syphilis. In difficult cases the prepuce must be slit open, or the patient kept under observation until the effects of treatment can be ascertained ; the chancre readily yields to anti-syphilitic remedies while the epithelioma progresses until its cancerous nature is no longer open to doubt. Extra-genital or Erratic Chancres.—Erratic chancre is the term applied by Jonathan Hutchinson to the primary sore of syphilis when it appears on other parts of the body than the