ANGIOMATA. 265 the resection any large tributary near to the portion to be excised, to prevent it dilating and perpetuating the condition. When the varix is widespread, and especially if several trunks are implicated, it is better to remove several portions of the vein, each about three or four inches long, at intervals along its course. The patient should be confined to bed for not less than three weeks after the operation. The treatment of the complications of varix has already been considered. Angiomata.1 Tumours of blood-vessels may be divided, according to the nature of the vessels of which they are composed, into the capillary, the venous, and the arterial angiomata. Capillary Angioma. The most common form of capillary angioma is the nmvus or congenital telangiectasis. Nsevus.—A nsevus is a collection of dilated capillaries, the afferent arterioles and the efferent venules of which often share .in the dilatation. For practical purposes the most useful classi- fication of naevi is into the cutaneous, the subcutaneous, and the mixed forms. As is the case with other tumours, little is known regarding the etiology of nsevi beyond the fact that they are markedly hereditary. Trauma probably plays no part in their causation, and their alleged association with maternal impressions is more than doubtful. Although usually described as congenital, these tumours are seldom noticed until the child is some days old. It is rare for the appearance of a naevus to be delayed beyond the fourteenth day. The cutaneous ncevus, “mother’s mark,” or “ port-wine stain,” consists of an abnormal aggregation of dilated capillaries in the substance of the skin. On stretching the skin the vessels may be seen to form a fine network, or to run in leashes parallel to one another. A dilated arteriole or a vein winding about among the capillaries may sometimes be detected. These nsevi may occur on any part of the body, but they are most frequently met with on the face. They may be multiple, but are seldom if ever bilaterally symmetrical. They vary greatly in size, some 1 In the description of angiomata we have followed the teaching of the late John Duncan.