458 INJURIES OF ELBOW AND FOREARM. by a roller bandage. Movement and massage should be begun in two or three days, great care being taken that the fragments are not redisplaced. By the end of a week the angle at which the elbow is fixed may be gradually increased. - The splint should be worn for about three weeks, and a sling for a week or two longer. Separation of the epiphysis and fracture of the internal epi- condyle are treated on the same general lines. It is, however, sometimes necessary in the latter fracture to fix the small fragment in position by a nail inserted through the skin. T- or Y-shaped fractures and fractures of the condyles, inasmuch as they implicate the articular surfaces, present greater difficulties in treatment. In young subjects whose occupation entails free movement of the elbow-joint, it is generally advisable to expose the fracture by operation and secure the fragments in position by nails or wires. The details of the operation vary with each case, depending upon the line of obliquity of the fracture, and the disposition of the individual fragments. Information regarding these points may usually be derived from radiograms. In performing the operation care must be taken to disturb the periosteum of the fragments as little as possible, lest their nutrition be interfered with. In less complicated cases it is sometimes possible to fix the fragments in apposition by nails inserted through the skin without an open incision. After operation a retentive apparatus similar to that employed for the supra-condylar fracture is applied, and the after treatment is conducted on the same lines. Operative interference is sometimes necessary for ankylosis or locking of the joint after fracture, or to relieve the ulnar nerve when it is involved in callus. Fractures of the Upper End of the Ulna. Fracture of the olecranon process is a comparatively common injury in adults. It usually follows a fall on the flexed elbow, and is believed to result from the direct impact, supplemented by the traction of the triceps muscle. In a few cases it has been produced by muscular action alone. The line of fracture usually passes through the tip of the process, less frequently through its middle, and but rarely through the base. It may be transverse, oblique, T- or V-shaped, but is rarely comminuted or compound. Clinical Features.—As the fracture almost invariably im- plicates the articular surface of the bone, there is considerable