204 INJURIES. vessels, serous fluid is extravasated ; and in a few rare cases circumscribed collections of oily fluid have been met with. In all contusions of the second degree there is marked swelling of the area involved, as well as pain and tenderness. The tempera- ture may rise to 101° F., or even higher, a form of aseptic fever (Fig. 8). The degree of shock is variable, but sudden syncope frequently results from severe bruises of the testicle, abdomen, or head, and occasionally marked nervous depression follows these injuries. Contusions of muscles or nerves may produce partial atrophy and paresis. This is often seen in injuries in the region of the shoulder. In alcoholic or other debilitated patients suppuration is liable to ensue in bruised parts, infection doubtless taking place from cocci circulating in the blood. Contusions of the third degree (contusion ivith complete dis- integration of tissue) are usually associated with severe fractures, dislocations, laceration of large vessels, nerves, or muscles, to which injuries they are of secondary importance. ! Treatment.—If the patient be seen immediately after the accident, elevation of the part, and firm pressure applied by means of a thick pad of cotton wool and an elastic bandage, are useful in preventing effusion of blood. Ice-bags and evaporat- ing lotions are to be used with caution, as they are liable to lower the vitality of the damaged tissues and lead to gangrene. When extravasation has taken place before the patient is seen, massage is the most speedy and efficacious means of dis- persing the effused blood. The part should be rubbed centri- petally several times a day, for from fifteen to thirty minutes, unless the presence of blebs or abrasions of the skin prevent this being done. When this is the case the use of antiseptic dressings is called for to prevent infection and to promote healing, after which massage is employed. When the tension caused by the extravasated blood threatens the vitality of the skin, incisions may be made, but only if absolute asepsis can be assured. The blood from a liaematoma may be withdrawn by a trocar and cannula, and the puncture sealed with collodion. Septic complications must be met on general surgical principles. Wounds. A wound is a solution in the continuity of the skin or mucous membrane and the underlying tissues.