42 INFLAMMATION. General Principles of Treatment in Inflammatory Con- ditions and in Inflamed Wounds.—The main object of treat- ment in these conditions is to help the tissues in the contest with the bacteria and their toxins. This is done in two ways —(1) by attacking the organisms and so removing the cause of the inflammation ; and (2) by improving the condition of the tissues so as to increase their power of defending themselves. The bacteria may be attacked directly by means of strong antiseptic agents locally applied. In such conditions, for example, as acute lymphangitis, or diffuse inflammation of the subcutaneous tissue, where the skin is unbroken, carbolic acid, in virtue of its penetrating power, if applied on fomentations in the strength of 1 to 40, will act directly on the organisms, and so allay the inflammation. On open surfaces, and in acne spots, boils, or similar conditions, the undiluted acid may be locally applied with the same object. By establishing free drainage, so that no fluid discharges are allowed to remain in the tissues, and by keeping the surface dry, the organisms may be starved out. Various drugs administered internally, such as quinine, salol, sulpho-carbolate of soda, and others, have a reputation, more or less deserved, as internal antiseptics. The toxins may be neutralised locally by such applications as iodoform or its substitutes; or their elimination may be hastened by stimulating the emunctories. A saline purge, such as half an ounce of sulphate of magnesium in a small quantity of water, ensures a free evacuation of the bowels. The kidneys are flushed by such diluent drinks as equal parts of milk and lime water, or milk with a dram of liquor calcis saccharatus added to each tumblerful. Barley-water, and “ Imperial drink,” which consists of a dram and a half of cream of tartar added to a pint of boiling water and sweetened with sugar after cooling, are also useful and non-irritating diuretics. The skin may be stimulated by Dover’s powder (10 grains), or liquor ammonite acetatis in three dram doses every four hours. The general health of the patient must be kept up by regularly-administered diets of fluid food, such as milk, beef- tea, meat juices or gruel, rendered more easily assimilable by artificial digestion if necessary. Stimulants and tonics will be given if indicated. The tissues of the inflamed part are greatly aided in their