277 CLINICAL FEATUBES OF ANEUBYSM. which case the pulsation ceases. Compression of the artery on the cardiac side of the swelling, although it arrests the pulsa- tion, does not produce any diminution in the size or tension of the swelling, and when the pressure is removed the pulsation is immediately restored. Fluid tumours, such as cysts, abscesses, or enlarged bursae, may simulate aneurysm very closely. An apparent expansion may accompany the pulsation, but careful examination usually enables this to be distinguished from the marked expansion of an aneurysm. Compression of the artery makes no difference in the size or tension of the swelling. Vascular tumours, such as sarcomata and goitres, may yield an expansile pulsation, but they differ from an aneurysm in that they are not diminished in size by compression of the main artery, nor can they be emptied by pressure. A soft, whiffing bruit is sometimes to be detected in certain parts of these tumours. The exaggerated pulsation sometimes observed in a normal artery—for example, the “pulsating aorta” so often seen in women who suffer from dyspeptic symptoms—is not likely to be mistaken for that of an aneurysm. Prognosis.—An aneurysm may either undergo natural cure or it may prove fatal. In some cases, however, it may remain stationary for a long period. Natural cure is brought about by the formation in the aneurysm of laminated clot, which gradually increases in amount till it fills the sac and obliterates the artery on which the aneurysm is situated. The organisation of this clot converts the aneurysm and the part of the vessel from which it originates into a solid mass of fibrous tissue. The clot which obliterates the artery may be an extension of that which fills the sac. On the other hand, it may be a portion of the clot separated and impacted as an embolus in the artery beyond, leading to thrombosis which first occludes the artery and then extends into the sac. The progress of natural cure is indicated clinically by the aneurysm becoming smaller, firmer, less expansile, and less compressible. The murmur and thrill are also diminished, and the pressure effects of the aneurysm become less marked. When the cure is complete the pulsation is lost, and there remains a small firm swelling attached to the vessel (consolidated aneurysm). While these changes are taking place the collateral arteries become enlarged, and an anastomotic circulation is established. An aneurysm may prove fatal by exerting pressure on