CLINICAL ASPECTS OF INFLAMMATION. 39 thrombotic stage of inflammation the blood-flow is completely and permanently arrested, and the vitality of the tissue is seriously endangered. Clinical Aspects of Inflammation.—It must clearly be understood that inflammation is not to be looked upon as a disease in itself, but rather as an evidence of some infective process going on in the tissues in which it occurs, and of an effort on the part of these tissues to overcome the invading organisms and their products. The chief danger to the patient lies, not in the reactive tissues which constitute the inflammatory process, but in the fact that he is liable to be poisoned by the toxins of the bacteria at work in the inflamed area. Since the days of Celsus (first century, a.d.), heat, redness, swelling, and pain have been recognised as cardinal signs of in- flammation, and to these may be added, interference with function in the inflamed part, and general constitutional disturbance. Inflammation may exist in a part and yet some of these signs be absent, or certain of them may be present although the tissues are not inflamed, but the coexistence of all, or even of a majority of them, is, in most instances, sufficient to establish the diagnosis of inflammation. Variations in the intensity of these signs and symptoms depend upon the acuteness of the condition, the nature of the causal organism and of the tissue attacked, the situation of the part in relation to the surface, and other factors. The heat of the inflamed part is to be attributed to the increased quantity of blood present in it, the actual temperature of the blood at the seat of inflammation being no higher than in other parts of the body. The more superficial the inflamed part the more readily is the local increase of temperature detected by the hand. This clinical point is best tested by placing the palm of the hand and fingers for a few seconds alternately over an uninflamed and an inflamed area, otherwise under similar conditions as to coverings and exposure. In this way slight differences may be recognised. Redness, similarly, is due to the increased afflux of blood to the inflamed part. The shade of colour varies with the stage of the inflammation, being lighter and brighter in the early, hyperaemic stages, and darker and duskier when congestion and stasis have occurred and the oxygenation of the blood is defective. In the thrombotic stage the part may assume a purplish hue. When a deep part, such as periosteum or bone, is the seat of inflammation, surface redness may be slight or even absent.