TETANUS. 115 slender rod-shaped organism. Each bacillus forms a single large spore, which is usually placed at one end and gives to the organism the shape of a drum-stick. The spores are highly resistant to chemical germicidal agents, conditions of dryness, and even survive boiling for five minutes. The organism, which is a perfect anaerobe, is very widely dis- tributed in nature, and is readily found in garden earth, dung heaps, and stable refuse. It can often be obtained also in the pus from the wound of infection in patients suffering from the disease, but it does not invade the body generally. Such wounds are usually small, unhealthy, and lined with necrotic tissue from which the special bacillus may be isolated, as well as other organisms—pyogenic or putrefactive—with which it is usually associated. It is now believed that a broken surface, however small, is essential to the inoculation of the virus, and that no such thing as an “idiopathic” variety of tetanus exists. It would appear, from experimental evidence, that the spores are the active agents in producing the disease, and that the presence of effused blood and some source of local irritation, such as a splinter of wood or other foreign body, favour their development. There is also reason to believe that the tetanus bacillus acts more certainly when introduced along with aerobic organisms, which, by using up the oxygen in the tissues, leave it a suitable environment. On post - mortem examination of patients who have died of tetanus very few lesions are to be detected. The commonest are congestion of the central nervous system, notably the grey matter of the pons and medulla, and degenerative changes in the ganglion cells of the spinal cord. Clinical Features.—The characteristic symptoms of tetanus do not, as a rule, appear earlier than the fourth or fifth day after the infliction of the wound, but the incubation period may extend to three weeks, and the wound may be quite healed before the disease declares itself. Usually, however, the wound is inflamed and suppurating, with ragged and sloughy edges. A slight feverish attack may mark the onset of the tetanic condition, or the patient may feel perfectly well until the spasms begin. If very careful observations be made, it may be found that the muscles in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound are the first to become contracted; but in the majority of instances the patient’s first complaint is of pain and stiffness in the muscles of mastication (trismus), notably the masseter, so that he has difficulty in opening the mouth—hence the popular