423 CHAPTER XXII. INJURIES IN THE REGION OF THE SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. Surgical Anatomy—Fractures of Clavicle : Varieties—Dislocations of Clavicle : Varieties—Dislocations of Shoulder : Varieties— Sprains and contusions of shoulder—Fractures of Scapula : Sites—Fractures of Upper End of Humerus: Surgical neck; Separation of epiphysis; Fracture of head, anatomical neck, or tuber- osities—Fractures of Shaft of Humerus. The injuries met with in the region of the shoulder include fractures and dislocations of the clavicle, fractures of the scapula, dislocations and sprains of the shoulder-joint, and fractures of the upper end of the humerus. Surgical Anatomy.—For the examination of an injury in the region of the shoulder the patient should be seated on a low stool or chair. After inspecting the parts from the front, the surgeon stands behind the patient and systematically examines the shoulder girdle and upper end of the humerus by palpation. The uninjured side should he examined along with the other for purposes of comparison. Immediately external to the supra-sternal notch, the sterno-clavicular articulation may be felt, the large end of the clavicle projecting beyond the margins of the small and shallow articular surface on the sternum. Any dislocation of this joint is at once recognised. The clavicle being subcutaneous throughout its whole length, any irregularity in its out- line can be easily detected. A small tubercle (deltoid tubercle) which frequently exists near the acromial end is liable to be mistaken for a fracture. The outer end forms with the acromion the acromio- clavicular joint, which, however, is not very readily recognised. The fingers are now carried over the acromion, which often exhibits a prominent ridge in the situation of its epiphysial cartilage, which must not be mistaken for a fracture. The tip of the acromion is usually employed as a fixed point in measuring the length of the arm. The outline of the spine of the scapula can be traced back to the vertebral border ; and the body of the bone may be manipulated, and its movements tested by moving the arm. The coracoid process can be recognised in the upper and outer angle