THE BURS.E. 378 more common than it is. Of the countless housemaids in whom the prepatellar bursa is subjected to friction and pressure, only a small proportion become the subjects of the typical form of traumatic bursitis known as “ housemaid’s knee.” The trau- matic element, however, is so obvious in the causation of this form of bursal enlargement, and its occurrence in certain occupations is so common, that the general term “trade- bursitis ” has been applied to it. The clinical features vary in different cases. Taking pre- patellar bursitis—-the so-called housemaid’s knee—as the type, we find that sometimes, and especially in acute cases, the part is hot, swollen, and tender, and fluctuation may be detected in the bursa. The patient may be obliged to lie up. In the majority of cases the chief feature is the gradual accumulation of fluid constituting the bursal hydrops or hygroma. Where the affection has lasted some time, or has frequently relapsed, the wall of the bursa becomes thickened by newly formed fibrous tissue. This may take place in a uniform and concentric fashion, resulting in the formation of a fibrous tumour—the solid bursal tumour—a small cavity containing a little fluid remaining in the centre. Or the fibrous thickening may be quite irregular and result in the formation of septa, bands or fringes not unlike those met with in arthritis deformans. The detachment of fringes may give rise to loose bodies like those met with in joints. Less frequently there are fibrinous bodies of the melon-seed type, sometimes moulded into circular discs like wafers. The presence of irregular thickenings of the wall, or of loose bodies, may be recognised clinically—-especially in superficial bursae, and when the sac is not tensely filled with fluid. The treatment varies according to the variety and stage of the affection. In recent cases the symptoms subside under rest and the application of carbolic or lead and opium fomentations. Hydrops is got rid of by blistering, by tapping, or by incision and drainage. When the wall is thickened the most satisfactory treatment is to excise the bursa. The overlying skin should be reflected downwards in the shape of a horse-shoe flap. Similar forms of bursitis are associated with gonorrhoeal infection, and with rheumatism—especially that following scarlet fever—and are apt to be very persistent or to relapse after apparent cure. In gout, urate of soda is deposited in the wall of the bursa, and may result in the formation of chalky tumours, sometimes of considerable size. The suppurative form may be due to the extension of an