556 DISEASES OF BONE. retained their vitality, resume their osteogenetic functions, often to an exaggerated degree. The initial changes in this direction consist in the formation of granulation tissue from the living periosteum and marrow. Wherever the periosteum has been lifted up from the shaft by an accum- ulation of pus, or is in contact with bone which is dead, it proceeds to form new bone with great activity, so that in the course of time the dead shaft becomes surrounded by a sheath or case of new bone, known as the involucrum (Fig. 180). Wherever the periosteum has been perforated by the pus making its way to the skin surface, there are defects or holes in the in- volucrum, called cloacae. As these correspond more or less in position to the sinuses in the skin, in passing a probe down one of the sinuses it usually passes through the cloaca and strikes the dead bone lying in the interior. Where the periosteum has been more extensively destroyed, new bone may only be formed in small patches here and there, or not at all. The tissue cells and capillary loops on the internal aspect of the new case form a lining of granulations, which, if in immediate contact with the dying bone, eat into its surface and partly absorb it. The bone in the process of separation thus acquires a pitted, grooved, or worm-eaten appearance, Fig. 180.—Shaft of the Tibia after Acute Osteomyelitis. The shaft of the bone has undergone extensive necrosis, and a shell of new bone has been formed by the perios- teum. (Specimen originally figured by James Syme in his Principles of dale’s1 coiiectlmOMr" Aiman' and undergoes diminution in size. If the periosteal surface of the bone is bathed in pus, it remains smooth and intact. The separation of the dead bone from the living is effected by the activity of the cells of the marrow, chiefly osteoclasts, which eat both into the living and into the dead bone, so that separation takes place at the expense of both; ultimately the dead bone becomes loose. The separated dead bone or sequestrum usually presents on its surfaces and edges an eroded or worm-eaten appearance. The sequestrum is white, but it may be discoloured