OSTEITIS DEFORMANS. 591 in the bones are regarded as partaking of the characters of a chronic inflammation whereby the marrow is transformed into a vascular con- nective tissue ; its bone-eating functions are exaggerated, and the frame- work of the bone becomes rarefied, so that it bends under pressure. This element of the disease suggests a resemblance to the lesions described under the head of osteo- malacia. In the course of time new bone is formed in great abundance both by the periosteum and the marrow ; it is at first de- void of lime salts, but later becomes calcified, so that the bones regain their normal rigidity. The formation of new bone is, however, much in ex- cess of the normal, the bones become large and bulky, their surfaces rough and uneven, their texture sclerosed in parts, and the medullary canal in the long bones is fre- quently obliterated. The curving of the long bones, which is such a striking feature of the disease, may be associated with actual lengthening, and the changes are usually remarkably symmetri- cal (Fig. 198). The bones forming the cranium may be enormously thickened, the distinction into tables and diploe is lost, and, while the general texture is finely porous, there may be areas of bone as dense as ivory (Fig. 197). Clinical Features.—The disease affects individuals of either sex over Fig. 197.—Changes in Skull resulting from Osteitis Deformans. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.) Fig. 198.—Alterations in Lower Limbs resulting from Osteitis Deformans. fifty years of age, and develops very gradually without any discoverable cause. The patient’s attention may be first attracted by the occurrence of vague pains in the back or limbs, or by the obvious enlargement and bending of such bones as the tibia or femur, or by the gradual increase in size of the head, necessitating the wearing of larger and larger hats. When the condition is fully developed the' attitude and general appear- ance are eminently characteristic. The height is diminished, and the arms appear unnaturally long as a result of the curving of the spine and lower limbs ; the shoulders are rounded and the head bent forwards ;