342 THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. and treatment is restricted to applying antiseptic fomenta- tions, unless the pain is unbearable, in which case a simple incision under chloride of ethyl may be made to relieve tension and allow of discharge. Acute Abscesses of the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue in Young Children.—In young infants abscesses are not infrequently met with scattered over the trunk and limbs, and are probably the result of infection of the sebaceous glands from dirty under- clothing. The abscesses should be opened, and the further spread of infection prevented by thorough cleansing of the skin and by the use of clean under-linen. Similar abscesses are met with on the scalp in association with eczema, impetigo, and pediculosis. Veldt Sores.—These have become well known owing to their prevalence among the troops during the recent war in South Africa. The sore usually originates in an abrasion of the epidermis, such as a sun blister, the bite of an insect, or a small wound or scratch. A pustule forms and bursts, and a brownish- yellow scab forms over it. When this is removed a raw surface or ulcer is left which has little tendency to heal. These sores are most common about the hands, arms, neck, and feet, and are most apt to occur in those who have had no opportunities of washing, and who have lived for a long period on tinned foods. The appearance of a number of white scars each surrounded by a zone of pigmentation is common]}' observed in those who have suffered from veldt sores. Tuberculosis of the Skin.—Interest chiefly attaches to the primary forms of tuberculosis of the skin in which the bacilli usually penetrate from without. Inoculation Tubercle. -The appearances vary with the conditions under which the inoculation takes place. As observed on the fingers of adults, the affection takes the form of an indolent, painless swelling, the epidermis being red and glazed or warty and irregularly fissured. Sometimes the epidermis gives way, forming an ulcer with flabby granulations. The infection very rarely spreads to the lymphatics. As it frequently occurs in pathologists and others who handle dead bodies, it is sometimes known as “ anatomical tubercle.” In children who run about barefooted in towns, tubercle may be inoculated into accidental wounds in the sole or about the toes, and although the local appearances may not be characteristic, the nature of the infection is revealed by its tendency to spread up the limb along the lymphatic vessels, giving rise to enlargement, abscesses, and fungating ulcers in relation to the femoral glands.