THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 254 and is often met with in the sac of an aneurysm (Fig. 51). When rapidly formed in a vessel in which the blood is almost stagnant—as, for example, in a large varicose vein—the blood coagulates en masse and the clot consists of all the elements of the blood and constitutes a red thrombus. Sometimes the thrombus is mixed—a red thrombus being deposited on a white one, it may be in alternate layers. When aseptic a thrombus usually undergoes organisation by the process already described in relation to the repair of injured blood-vessels. On the other hand, it may degenerate and undergo calcification, or a portion of it may become detached and be carried off in the blood-stream as an embolus. Occasionally a small thrombus situated behind a valve in a varicose vein or in the terminal end of a dilated vein—for example, in a pile—undergoes calcification, becoming converted into a phlebolith by the deposit of lime salts in its texture. When infected with pyogenic bacteria the thrombus becomes converted into pus and a localised abscess may form, or portions of the thrombus may be carried as septic emboli in the circula- tion to distant parts, where they give rise to secondary foci of suppuration—pytemic abscesses. Embolism.—The term embolus is applied to any body carried along in the arterial circulation and ultimately impacted in one of the arteries. This occurrence is known as embolism. The commonest forms of embolus are portions of thrombi or of fibrinous formations on the valves of the heart, the latter being usually infected with micro-organisms. Embolism plays an important part in determining one form of gangrene, as has already been described. Septic emboli are the direct cause of the secondary abscesses which occur in pyaemia; and they are sometimes responsible for the formation of aneurysm. Portions of malignant tumours also may form emboli, and their impaction in the vessels may lead to the development of secondary growths in distant parts of the body. Fat and air embolism have already been referred to. Arteritis. Arteritis due to Pyogenic Organisms.—The wall of an artery, like any other tissue, may be the seat of acute pyogenic processes. The infection may take place by direct spread from a focus of suppuration in the vicinity of the artery, from an imperfectly sterilised ligature applied to the vessel, or from the blood-stream in the form of a septic embolus—embolic arteritis. The changes