414 INJURIES OF JOINTS. Rdntgen rays to make certaiu that there is no fracture or dis- location present. Displacement of tendons is apt to be over- looked. In sprains the bony points about the joint retain their normal relations to one another, and usually enable these injuries to be diagnosed from dislocations and, as a rule, from fractures. Prognosis.—Stiffness, lasting for a longer or shorter time, follows most sprains, but may be largely prevented by proper treatment. In old and rheumatic persons changes of the nature of arthritis deformans are liable to take place, interfering greatly with movement. While suppuration is rare, tuberculous disease not infrequently dates its onset from a sprain. Treatment.—Sprains are best treated by early massage and movement, combined with firm elastic pressure. In the case of the ankle, for example, massage should be commenced at once, the jiart being gently stroked upwards. The process is painful for the first few minutes, but soon ceases to be so, and becomes soothing to the patient. The rubbing is continued for from fifteen to twenty minutes, the patient being encouraged to move the toes and ankle. A moderately firm elastic bandage or a few strips of adhesive plaster are then applied, care being taken not to constrict the limb and so interfere with the circulation. The massage is repeated once or twice a day, the sittings lasting for about half an hour. The patient should be encouraged to move the joint from the first, beginning with the movements which put least strain upon the damaged ligaments, and gradually increasing the range. In the course of a few days the patient is encouraged to walk, or cycle, or otherwise to use the joint without subjecting it to strain. Alternate hot and cold douching, followed by massage, is also useful. Complete rest and prolonged immobilisation are only mentioned to be con- demned. In patients predisposed to tuberculosis, however, it is neces- sary to proceed with greater caution in the employment of massage and exercise. Traumatic Dislocations. A dislocation or luxation is a persistent displacement of the opposing ends of the bones forming a joint. We are here concerned with such dislocations as immediately follow upon injury. Those which are congenital or which result from disease will be studied later. Sources of Joint Strength.—The capacity of a joint to resist disloca- tion depends upon (1) the shape of its osseous elements ; (2) the strength