38 INFLAMMATION. As the vitality of the tissue continues to diminish, the activity of the bacteria increases, so that a greater quantity of toxins is produced, and further evidences of their action on the tissues become manifest. The accumulation of leucocytes in the peripheral parts of the vessels increases, the blood as it comes into contact with the devitalised portions of the vessel wall has its flow arrested,—stasis,—and the red corpuscles fall out of the central part of the vessel and mix with the serum and leucocytes. Leucocytes find their way through the walls of the small veins and capillaries in gradually increasing numbers, till the whole of the connective tissue in the vicinity becomes infiltrated with them—emigration of leucocytes. The fluid portion of the blood also exudes through the walls, and the connective tissue becomes water-logged. Red corpuscles are carried out through the openings made by the leucocytes, and lie singly or in clumps in the meshes of the connective tissue—diapedesis of red corpuscles. The emigration of leucocytes, resulting in a local leucocytosis, is one of the most important phenomena of inflammation, and on it the protective character of the inflammatory process depends. Leber has shown that the leucocytes leave the vessels in obedience to a form of chemical or of biological attraction existing between them and the bacteria or their products. This is named chemiotaxis. The determination of leucocytes to the seat of bacterial invasion in this way enables them to bring their phagocytic action to bear against the organisms, and so to check their advance. Coincidently with these changes, a proliferation of the fixed tissue cells of the part takes place. As has been said, the serous exudate in this stage of inflammation is copious, and it varies in character with different micro-organisms and in different tissues. When the exudate remains fluid, it is spoken of as serous, as in serous synovitis. In most inflammations the exuded fluid coagulates more or less completely, being then termed serofibrin- ous. On the free surface of mucous membranes it sometimes forms a dull grey tough layer, composed of a mixture of fibrin, mucin, and dead epithelial cells, constituting a croupous exudate. In very vascular tissues with friable vessels, during an acute inflammation, somewhat copious bleeding may accompany the exudation into the tissues—haemorrhagic exudate. Other terms, which explain themselves, are applied to inflammatory exudates, such as purulent, putrid, ichorous. In severe and long-continued inflammation the endothelium of the vessels becomes so profoundly altered that thrombosis, or clotting of the blood in the vessels, takes place. In the