ANEURYSMS OF INDIVIDUAL ARTERIES. 291 If compression of the common carotid is found to arrest the pulsation, ligature of this vessel is indicated. Electrolysis has also been successful in the treatment of orbital aneurysm. Subclavian Aneurysm.-—Subclavian aneurysm is usually met with in men who follow occupations involving excessive use of the shoulder—for example, dock-porters and coal-heavers. It is more common on the right side. The aneurysm usually springs from the third part of the artery, and appears as a tense, rounded, pulsatile swelling just above the clavicle and to the outer side of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It occasionally extends in the direction of the thorax, where it may become adherent to the pleura. The aneurysm is of slow growth, and has a considerable tendency to undergo spontaneous cure. The radial pulse on the same side as the aneurysm is small and delayed. Congestion and oedema of the limb, with pain, numbness, and muscular weakness, may result from pressure on the veins and nerves as they pass under the clavicle; and pressure on the phrenic nerve may induce hiccough. The conditions most likely to be mistaken for subclavian aneurysm are a soft, rapidly growing sarcoma, and a normal artery raised on a cervical rib. It is to be borne in mind, however, that aneurysm is liable to develop in an artery so displaced by a cervical rib. On account of the anatomical relations of the artery and the disposition of its branches, surgical treatment is less satisfactory in subclavian than in almost any other form of external aneurysm. Needling or electrolysis should be tried before resorting to operation. The available operative measures are proximal ligature—either of the innominate or of the first part of the artery itself, excision of the sac, and distal ligature. In some cases it has been found necessary to combine distal ligature with amputation at the shoulder-joint, to prevent the collateral circulation maintaining the flow through the aneurysm. All these operations are serious, and are only undertaken when less dangerous measures fail. Axillary Aneurysm.—Any part of the axillary artery may be the seat of aneurysm. It is usually met with in the right arm of labouring men and sailors, and not infrequently follows an injury in the region of the shoulder. The vessel may be damaged by the head of a dislocated humerus or in attempts to reduce the dislocation, by the fragments of a fractured bone, or by a stab or cut. Sometimes the vein also is injured and an arterio-venous aneurysm established.