SKIN-GRAFTING. 87 with a dry gauze dressing, or with a dressing of picric acid such as is used for superficial burns. It is often difficult to decide when the dressing should be changed. In cases where a dry dressing has been employed it may be left in position for from seven to ten days, by which time the grafts have united. It may then be replaced by a dressing of weak boracic ointment or lanoline. When a pro- tective dressing is used it must be changed every third or fourth day until the grafts become fixed, after which an ointment dressing is substituted. In all cases the utmost gentleness and care are necessary to avoid disturbance of the adhesions between the grafts and the ulcer. After grafting leg ulcers, prolonged rest in the recumbent position is imperative, to obviate the tendency of the cicatrix to break down when the limb is allowed to hang. The limb should not be used for walking within two or three months of being grafted. The new skin is at first insensitive and is fixed to the under- lying tissue, but in course of time new nerve fibres grow into it and sensation is restored, and the development of elastic tissue in the deeper part of the cicatrix renders it pliable and movable. Skin-grafting proper consists in transplanting portions of the whole thickness of the true skin, excluding the subcutaneous fat. When the grafts are taken from the human subject they should be cut oval or spindle-shaped, to facilitate the stitching of the edges of the resulting wound; and it is to be borne in mind that when separated from the body these portions of skin contract to about two-thirds of their original size. This shrinkage must be allowed for when it is desired to cover a raw surface with a single graft. These grafts take best on a fresh raw surface, and it is sometimes an advantage to stitch them in position, especially on the face. The primary dressing and the subsequent treatment are the same as in Thiersch grafting. When successful this method yields most satisfactory results, but the proportion of failures is greater than with Thiersch’s method. Skin-grafting from the Lower Animals.—The best re- sults have been obtained by planting the whole thickness of the skin of young warm - blooded animals, such as puppies, kittens, or rabbits, on a fresh raw surface. The animal is killed with chloroform, the anterior abdominal wall and flanks are shaved, and the skin, after being dissected up free of fat, is cut into pieces about two inches by one, and placed on the surface to be covered in. The after treatment is the