G28 DISEASES' OF JOINTS. under observation, if the limb is in a deformed attitude which does not readily yield to extension, it should at the outset be corrected under an ansesthetic. The permanently deformed attitudes due to contraction of the soft parts or to ankylosis will be considered later. The Injection of Iodoform.—In hydrops and empyema of joints this is carried out on the same lines as have been described for tuberculous abscess. The fluid contents of the joint are withdrawn, after which the iodoform emulsion is injected. The injection may require to be repeated in a month or six weeks. ■ When there is no fluid in the joint,—as, for example, in white swelling,—the conditions for distributing the iodoform are less favourable. In the knee the joint may be divided up into compartments by septa of connective tissue derived from the synovial membrane, and the iodoform must be introduced into all of them. The trocar must be thrust in all directions, successive parts of the joint being attacked at intervals of from ten to fourteen days. Injections into the substance of the synovial membrane are less certain, are more painful, and require greater pressure on the piston of the syringe. Mikulicz and others attempt to inject the iodoform into the adjacent bones when these are soft enough to allow of the entrance of the trocar. Wherever the iodoform is introduced it remains for long periods, and may be seen as a dark shadow in skiagrams. After the injection of iodoform there is usually considerable reaction attended with fever (101° F.), headache, and malaise, and considerable pain and swelling of the joint. In some cases there is sickness, and there may be blood pigment in the urine. The severity of these phenomena diminishes with each subsequent injection. The artificial productioii of venous congestion introduced by Bier is, if carefully supervised, an important adjuvant to the iodoform treatment. Two or three turns of elastic webbing are applied outside a layer of lint a short distance above the affected joint, sufficiently tightly to constrict the veins and produce a bluish-red tinge of the skin. Below the joint the limb should be bandaged to prevent oedema. The site of application of the elastic bandage is frequently changed, to avoid injuring the skin and to diminish the tendency to wasting of the muscles. The congestion is maintained for from fourteen to eighteen hours each day. In the interval the oedema around the joint may be dispelled by a bandage. The congestion appears to act beneficially by stimulating the formation of connective tissue. It has been objected to by some surgeons, because under its