374 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. distended with fluid containing melon-seed bodies—a condition formerly known as hydrops or hygroma of tendon sheaths. The sheath itself is thickened by the growth of tuberculous granulation tissue, which subsequently undergoes degeneration. On the free surface the fibrinous material is detached and moulded into melon-seed bodies by the movements of the tendon. These bodies vary greatly in size and shape, are of a dull-white colour, and have a smooth surface (Fig. 217). They consist of a material resembling fibrin, which is usually homo- geneous, but is sometimes arranged in a laminated or reticulated fashion. Cellular elements may be scattered throughout its sub- stance, but they rarely exhibit the arrangement of tubercle follicles, and it is seldom possible to de- monstrate tubercle bacilli in them. The melon-seed bodies are usually suspended in a clear or slightly turbid, yellowish, viscous fluid. There may be an overgrowth of the fatty fringes of the synovial sheath, a condition described as “arborescent lipoma.” The clinical features vary with the tendon sheath affected. In the common flexor sheath of the hand a swelling is formed, which is hour-glass-shaped, bulging above and below the annular ligament—the so- called compound palmar ganglion (Fig. 74). There is little or no pain, but the fingers tend to be stiff and weak, and they may become flexed. On palpation it is usually possible to displace the contents of the sheath from one compartment to the other, and this may yield fluctuation, and, what is more characteristic, a peculiar friction or crepitation from the movement of the melon-seed bodies against one another. sheath of a finger the swelling is confined In the sheath of the peronei or other tendons about the ankle the swelling is sausage-shaped, with a con- striction opposite the annular ligament. The onset and progress of the affection are most insidious, and the condition may remain stationary for long periods. It is aggravated by use or strain of the tendons involved. In exceptional cases the skin becomes thinned and gives way, leading to the formation of a discharging sinus. The prognosis Fig. 74.—Tuberculous Disease of Sheaths of Flexor Tendons. (Mr. J. M.Cotterill’sease.) In the flexor to the finger.