Ill TUBERCULOUS ABSCESS. treatment will be considered under each particular tissue and organ. Tuberculous Abscess. The breaking-down of a tuberculous focus and the conversion of the debris into pus is a slow and insidious process, and is unattended with the classical signs of inflammation—hence the terms “ cold ” and “ chronic ” applied to the tuberculous abscess. In a typical cold abscess, such as that which results from tuberculous disease of the vertebras, the clinical appearances are those of a soft, fluid swelling without heat, redness, pain, or fever. When inflammatory symptoms are present they are usually due to a mixed infection with ordinary pyogenic bacteria having taken place. A tuberculous abscess results from the disintegration and liquefaction of tuberculous granulation tissue which has under- gone caseation. Fluid and cells from the adjacent blood-vessels exude into the cavity, and lead to variations in the character of its contents. In some cases the contents consist of a clear amber-coloured fluid, in which are suspended flakes or fragments of broken-down caseated tissue; in others, of a thick, white material like cream - cheese. From the addition of a large number of emigrated leucocytes, the contents may closely resemble the pus of an ordinary acute abscess. The wall of the abscess is lined with tuberculous granulation tissue, the inner layers of which are undergoing caseation and disintegration and present a shreddy appearance. The outer layers consist of tuberculous tissue which has not yet undergone caseation. The abscess tends to increase in size by progressive liquefaction of the inner layers, caseation of the outer layers, and the further invasion of the surrounding tissues by tubercle bacilli. In this way a tuberculous abscess is capable of indefinite extension and increase in size until it reaches a free surface and ruptures externally. Once a collection of tuberculous pus forms, the direction in which it spreads is influenced by the anatomical arrangement of the tissues, and possibly to some extent by gravity, and the abscess may come to the surface at a considerable distance from its seat of origin. The best illustra- tion of this is seen in psoas abscess, which may originate in the dorsal vertebrae, extend downwards within the sheath of the psoas muscle, and finally appear in the thigh. Clinical Features.—The slow and insidious development of the tuberculous abscess is one of its most characteristic features.