DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. 68G tendons, and posteriorly filling up the hollows on either side of the tendo Achillis. At a later stage the swelling is also seen below the malleoli (Fig. 234). The foot may retain its normal attitude, or the toes may be slightly pointed and adducted. The calf muscles are wasted, there is little complaint of pain, and the movements of the joint may be so little interfered with that the patient can walk without limping. When the articular surfaces have become affected, there is the usual pain and sensitiveness, the normal movements are restricted or abolished, and the patient is unable to put the heel to the ground. Primary disease in the bones, in the absence of white swelling, may cause enlargement of one or other malleolus, localised pain and tenderness, and a limp in walking. In other cases the first signs may be the formation of abscess or the rapid development of articular symptoms. In such cases skiagrams may afford valu- able information. A combination of synovial and osseous disease is usually met with in advanced cases, the in- fection tending to spread diffusely throughout the whole region. Abscess formation is an early and prominent feature of disease of the ankle, whether of osseous or synovial origin, and sinuses are liable to form around the joint. Outlying abscesses and sinuses are usually the result of infection of the tendon sheaths in the neighbourhood. When tuberculous teno-synovitis occurs independently of disease of the ankle, the swelling is confined to one aspect of the joint. In sarcoma the swelling lacks the typical distribution of that met with in joint disease. The prognosis is usually unfavourable in adults because of the extent of the disease and of the frequency of tuberculosis elsewhere in the body. The treatment is conducted on the same lines as in other joints of the lower extremity. The foot is immobilised at a right angle to the leg by splints or plaster of Paris. If it Fig. 234. — Advanced Tuberculous Disease of Synovial Membrane of Ankle.