247 HAEMORRHAGE. douching the part with sterilised water at a temperature of about 110° F. Styptics.—The local application of styptics is seldom to be recommended. In the treatment of epistaxis or bleeding from the nose, of hannorrhage from the socket of an extracted tooth, and sometimes from ulcerating or granulating surfaces, however, styptics are useful. All clots must be removed and the drug applied by means of a pad of gauze directly to the bleeding surface. Adrenalin, turpentine, peroxide of hydrogen, and liquor ferri perchloridi are the most useful drugs for this purpose. The internal administration of such drugs as ergot and its derivatives, gallic acid, and chloride of calcium is seldom called for. Reactionary or intermediary haemorrhage is really a recurrence of primary bleeding. As the name indicates, it occurs during the period of reaction —that is, within the first few hours after an operation or injury. It is due to the increase in the blood pressure which accompanies reaction displacing the clots which occlude the vessels, or causing vessels to bleed which did not bleed during the operation ; or it may be due to the slipping of a ligature or to the giving way of a grossly damaged portion of the vessel wall. In certain situations also — for example, in the scrotum — the relaxation of the dartos during the first few hours after operation may lead to reactionary haemorrhage. When the bleeding is due to a ligature having slipped from a large vessel, the wound must be opened up and the vessel again secured. As a rule, however, reactionary haemorrhage takes place from small vessels, and is due to displacement of the occluding clots. In many cases the haemorrhage is found to stop when the bandages and soaked dressings are removed. Whether this occurs or not, it is usually sufficient in the first instance to apply firm pressure and to elevate the limb. Should the haemorrhage recur, the wound must be reopened, and forceps or ligatures applied to the bleeding vessels. Douching the wound with hot sterilised water (about 110° F.), and plugging it tightly with sterilised gauze are often successful in arresting capillary oozing from a large surface. The internal administra- tion of morphin sometimes proves useful by keeping the patient quiet. The term Secondary Haemorrhage refers to bleeding which is due to some interference with the natural process by which am injured vessel is repaired. It is also employed to describe the bleeding which may result from erosion of a blood-vessel—