522 INJURIES IN REGION OF KNEE AND LEG. internal cartilage, outwards in the case of the external,—and finally suddenly extending the joint, keeping up the rotation at the same time. Alternate flexion and extension with rotatory movements is sometimes successful. Several attempts are often necessary, and a general anaesthetic may be called for. After reduction the limb is fixed with sandbags, and massage and movement employed, great care being taken that no rotatory movement is permitted at the knee. Prolonged rest and support are necessary to allow of repair of the torn ligaments. When the patient begins to use the joint he must be careful to avoid movements which throw strain on the weak ligaments. In recurrent cases attempts may be made to retain the cartilage in position by pads, bandages, or other forms of apparatus so combined as to prevent rotation taking place at the knee. In the majority of cases, however, the best results are obtained by exposing the cartilage by an incision in its long axis, and stitching it to the capsule or periosteum over the head of the tibia, or excising it, in whole or in part, as may be necessary. The capsule is closed by a row of buried catgut sutures, and the wound stitched without drainage. Rupture of the Crucial Ligaments.—A few cases have been recorded in which, as a result of severe twisting forms of violence, the crucial ligaments have been torn from their attachments, leaving the joint loose and unstable, so that the tibia and the femur may be moved laterally on one another. Where the disability persists the joint may be opened and the ligaments sutured in position (Mayo-Robson). Sprains of the knee are comparatively common as a result of sudden twisting or wrenching of the joint. In addition to the stretching or tearing of the ligaments, there is usually a considerable effusion of fluid into the synovial cavity. The swelling which results fills up the hollows on either side of the patella, and extends for some distance in the synovial pouch underneath the quadriceps tendon. The patella is raised from the front of the femur by the collection of fluid in the joint—“ floating patella.” If firmly pressed upon, the patella may be made to rap against the trochlear surface. A sprain is to be diagnosed from separation of one or other of the adjacent epiphyses, fractures involving the articular ends of the bones, and displacement of the semilunar cartilages. On account of the swelling, which obscures the outline of the part, the differential diagnosis is often very difficult. Chief reliance is to be placed upon the bones retaining their normal relation- ships, and upon the fact that the points of maximum tender-