DUPUYTREN’S CONTRACTION. 735 after middle life, especially in men. It is chiefly met with in those who are predisposed to it by inheritance or by gout, and in those who are liable to arthritis deformans. While sometimes seen in the working classes and attributed to the pressure of some hard object on the palm of the hand—such as a hammer or shovel or whip—its greater frequency in those who do no manual work, and the fact that it is very often bilateral, indicate that the constitutional factor is the most important in its etiology. Although advice is rarely sought until the finger has become flexed, in the initial stage there is a well-marked induration in the palm opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and the skin over it is puckered and closely adherent to the underlying fascia. After a variable interval, the finger is gradually and progressively flexed at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The ring finger is usually the first to be affected, less often the fifth, although both are very commonly involved. It is rarest of all in the index. The flexion may be confined to the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, or the middle and distal phalanges may also be flexed; and as the deformity becomes more pronounced, the nail of the affected finger may come into contact with the skin of the palm. Dis- sections show that the flexion of the finger is the result of a chronic interstitial overgrowth and subsequent contraction of the palmar fascia and of its prolongations on to the sides of the fingers. The digital processes of the fascia are thickened and shortened and come to stand out like the string of a bow. The adipose tissue in the skin of the palm atrophies and disappears, and the skin and fascia thus brought into contact become fused with one another. The tendons and their sheaths are not implicated ; they are found lying deeply in the concavity of the curve of the flexed digit. The condition is easily diagnosed from the congenital contraction by the fact that in the latter the proximal phalanx is extended or hyper-extended. Treatment.—If seen at the stage of induration in the palm, contraction may be prevented by passive movements of the finger and by massage of the indurated fascia. When flexion has already occurred it is most easily corrected by what is known as Adam’s operation. This consists in multiple subcutaneous division of the contracted fascia in the palm and of its prolonga- tions on to the finger. In addition to dividing the fascia, the tenotomy knife should also be used to separate the skin from the fascia. The finger is then forcibly extended and a well-padded splint is secured to the hand and forearm. The skin on the palmar aspect opposite the first inter-phalangeal joint may give