DISEASES OF BONE. 586 spongy bone is rarefied or disappears; hence the bones readily bend or break under mechanical influences. In the fiat bones of the skull the absorption may result in the entire disappear- ance of areas of bone, leaving a thin membrane which dimples like thin cardboard under the pressure of the finger—a condition known as craniotabes. Changes in the Skeleton as a Whole.—The distribution and nature of the changes in the skeleton vary widely in different cases, being influenced by the period of onset, the severity and duration of the disease, and the conditions under which the child is placed. In Young Children before they are able to wallc.—The fonta- nelles and sutures remain open until the end of the second year or longer and the frontal and parietal eminences are promi- nent. While craniotabes is present in some cases, in others there is great thickening of the bones. If there is hydro- cephalus the head is unduly large. The jaws are altered so that while the upper jaw is contracted into the shape of a V, the lower jaw is square instead of rounded, and when the teeth erupt they do not oppose one another. In the thorax the chief feature may be the beading at the costo-chondral junctions, especially of the fifth and sixth ribs, or its walls may be con- tracted, especially if the respiration is interfered with as a result of bronchial catarrh or adenoids. The contraction may take the form of a vertical groove on each side, or of a horizontal groove at the level of the upper end of the xiphisternum; when the sternum and cartilages are pushed forwards and project in front the deformity is known as “the pigeon-breast.” The spine may be curved backwards or to one or other side; the backward curve or kyphosis being met with in infants who sit up, the lateral curvature or scoliosis in those who persistently lie, or are carried, on one side. In the limbs the prominent features are the deficient growth in length of the long bones, the enlargements at the epiphysial junctions, and the bending and occasional greenstick fracture of the shafts. At this stage the curves depend on the attitude of the child while sitting or being carried—for example, the arm bones become bent in children who paddle about the floor with the aid of their arms; while in a child who lies on its back with the lower limbs everted, the weight of the limb may lead to curvature of the neck of the femur—coxa vara. The clavicle or humerus may sustain greenstick fracture from the child being lifted by the arms, the femur by its falling on the ground. From the extreme laxity of the ligaments the joints