235 INJURIES OF ARTERIES. the blood. These valves are composed of semilunar folds of the tunica intima strengthened by an addition of connective tissue. Each valve usually consists of two semilunar flaps attached to opposite sides of the vessel wall, each flap having a small sinus on its cardiac side. The distension of these sinuses with blood closes the valve and prevents regurgitation. Valves are absent from the superior and inferior vense cavae, the portal vein and its tributaries, the hepatic, renal, uterine, and spermatic veins, and from the veins in the lower part of the rectum. They are ill-developed or absent also in the iliac and common femoral veins—a fact which has an important bearing on the production of varix in the veins of the lower extremity. The wall of capillaries consists of a single layer of endothelial cells. Injuries of Arteries. The following description of the injuries of arteries refers entirely to the larger, named trunks. The injuries of smaller, unnamed vessels are included in the consideration of contusions and wounds. The injuries to which the larger arteries are liable are : contusion, subcutaneous rupture, laceration with an open wound, and punctured, incised, and gunshot wounds. Contusion.—An artery may be contused by a blow or crush, or by the oblique impact of a bullet. Such injuries are of little clinical interest, because when subcutaneous they cannot be diagnosed with certainty, and even in the presence of an open wound their existence is largely a matter of conjecture. The bruising of the vessel wall, especially if atheroma be present, may result in the formation of a thrombus which may occlude the lumen temporarily or even permanently, and in rare cases lead to gangrene. A simple contusion, however, is rarely if ever followed by the formation of an aneurysm. Subcutaneous Rupture.—An artery may be ruptured sub- cutaneously either by a blow or crush of the limb, or by the displaced fragment of a broken bone or a separated epiphysis. This injury has been produced during attempts to reduce dislocations, especially those of old standing at the shoulder- joint. It is most liable to occur when the vessels are atheromatous. The rupture may be incomplete or complete. In the majority of cases it is incomplete—the inner and middle coats being torn, while the outer coat remains intact. The middle coat contracts and retracts, and the internal, because of its elasticity, curls up in the interior of the vessel, forming a valvular obstruction to the blood-flow. In most cases this results in the formation of a thrombus which occludes the vessel. In