SUPPURATIVE CELLULITIS. 57 cellular tissue of the linger. The point of infection is often of a very trivial character—a pin-prick, a splinter of wood, a scratch, or even an almost imperceptible lesion of the skin. There are several clinical varieties of whitlow. In the most superficial variety pus forms between the rete Malpighi and the stratum corneum of the skin, the latter being raised as a blister—'purulent blister—in which fluctuation can be detected. When the pus forms in relation to the nail,—• which corresponds to the stratum corneum,—it raises the nail also, and the yellow pus is often visible through it. There is some local heat and discoloration, and considerable pain and tenderness, but little or no constitutional disturbance. Super- ficial lymphangitis may extend a short distance up the hand. By clipping away the raised epidermis and nail the pus is evacuated, and under an antiseptic dressing healing speedily takes place. Another variety met with among those who handle septic material occurs in the angle between the nail and the skin, and is due to the in- troduction of septic matter at the nail fold (Fig. 9). A small focus of suppura- tion forms under the nail, with swelling and redness of the nail fold, causing intense pain and discom- fort, and producing a constitutional reaction out of all propor- tion to the local lesion. To allow the pus to escape, it is necessary, under local anaesthesia, to cut away the nail fold as well as the portion of nail in the affected area, or, it may be, to remove the nail entirely. Unless this is done very freely granulations spring up and interfere with drainage, and the condition becomes very persistent. When the bacteria reach the subcutaneous tissue the condition becomes more serious, as it may result in sloughing of the pulp of the finger. Necrosis of the one or other of phalanges and destruction of the associated joints are not uncommon. The inflammation may spread to the flexor sheath and tendon, and J Fig. 9.—Whitlow due to septic infection at lateral nail fold. A portion of nail has been removed.