168 SYPHILIS. to lay down any general rules for diagnosis, but the reader may be cautioned, on the one hand, against relying upon the absence of a history of antecedent syphilis, and, on the other, of indulging in the habit of diagnosing lesions as syphilitic simply because their origin is obscure. Treatment.—The most valuable drugs for the treatment of the manifestations of the tertiary period are the iodides of sodium and potassium. While iodides are most effective in promoting the absorption of recent gummata and gummatous in- filtrations, they do not remedy the destructive changes brought about by gummata. They are frequently prescribed along with carbonate of ammonium on account of their depressing effects. The dose is usually a matter of experiment in each individual case; five grains three times a day may suffice, or it may be necessary to increase each dose to twenty or twenty-five grains. The symptoms of iodism which may follow from the smaller doses usually disappear on giving a larger amount of the drug. It should be taken after meals, with abundant water or other fluid, especially if given in tablet form. It is advisable to continue the iodides for from one to three months after the lesions for which they are given have cleared up. If the potassium salt is not tolerated, it may be replaced by the ammonium or sodium iodide. A combination of the percliloride of mercury with iodides usually yields more lasting results than the iodides alone. The general health should receive the same careful attention as during the secondary period; much assistance is often obtained from tonics such as arsenic, iron, quinine, and strychnine, from cod-liver oil, and from change of air either by land or sea. The Local Treatment.—The absorption of a subcutaneous gumma is hastened by the application of a fly-blister. The occasion scarcely ever arises in which it is an advantage to incise a gumma. When a gumma has broken on the surface and left an ulcer, this is treated on general principles, with a I (reference, however, for applications containing mercury or iodine, or both. If a wet dressing is required to cleanse the ulcer, black wash may be used; if a powder to promote dry- ness, one containing iodoform; if an ointment is indicated, the choice lies between the red oxide of mercury, or the dilute nitrate of mercury ointment, or one consisting of equal parts of lanolin and vaselin with two per cent, of iodine. Where there is any spreading tendency in ulcers of the skin or mucous membrane, the surface may be cauterised with the acid nitrate of mercury. Deep ulcers, lesions of the bones, larynx, and other