128 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. ulcerations of farcy have to be distinguished from those of tubercle, syphilis, and other forms of infective granulomata. In the chronic nodules it is often impossible to demonstrate the bacillus. Treatment.—Limited areas of disease should be completely excised, disinfected with pure carbolic acid, and dressed anti- septically. When too widely spread for this, incision of abscesses, followed by scraping and disinfection, is all that can be attempted. The general condition of the patient must be improved by tonics, good food, and favourable hygienic surroundings. In some cases potassium iodide acts beneficially. Actinomycosis. Actinomycosis is a chronic disease due to the action of an organism somewhat higher in the vegetable scale than ordinary bacteria—the streptothrix actinomyces or ray fungus. Etiology and Morbid Anatomy.—The actinomyces, which has never been met with outside the body, gives rise in oxen, horses, and other animals to tumour-like masses composed of granulation tissue ; and in man to chronic suppurative processes which may result in a condition resembling chronic pyaemia. The actinomyces is more complex in structure than other patho- genic organisms, and occurs in the tissues in the form of small, round, semi-translucent bodies, about the size of a pin-head or less, and consisting of colonies of the fungus. On account of their yellow tint they are spoken of as “ sulphur grains.” Each colony is made up of a series of thin, interlacing and branching filaments, some of which are broken up so as to form masses or chains of cocci; and around the periphery of the colony are elongated, pear-shaped, hyaline, club-like bodies. Infection is believed to be conveyed by the husks of cereals, especially barley; and the organism has been found adhering to particles of grain embedded in the tissues of animals suffering from the disease. In human subjects there is often a history of exposure to infection from such sources, and the disease is said to be most common during the harvesting months. Around the colonies of actinomyces is an area of chronic inflammation in which suppuration usually occurs, so that the fungus comes to lie in a bath of greenish-yellow pus. Outside the pus is a layer of granulation tissue. As the process spreads the small abscesses become confluent and form larger cavities.