TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. 617 lesions in childhood and youth is to be ascribed chiefly to the conditions associated with the growth of the skeleton, especially at the ends of the long bones. Morbid Anatomy.—When tuberculous disease is present, either in the form of an area of caseation or of a sequestrum in the spongy bone, it may give rise to reactive changes in the adjacent joint, which are not necessarily tuberculous. These are characterised by effusion into the joint, and by the prolonga- tion of the synovial membrane over the articular surfaces. The forma- tion of adhesions may obliterate the cavity of the joint, or divide it into different compartments. These phenomena are best observed in the knee, and are analogous to the changes met with in the pleura in disease of the lung, and in the peritoneum in disease of the ab- dominal viscera. These non-tuber- culous lesions in joints are com- paratively common and are often misunderstood. They are, however, of importance because they interfere with the functions of the joint, and in the event of rupture of the osseous focus into the joint at a later period may limit the infection to a circum- scribed area and prevent the de- velopment of the graver forms of tuberculous joint disease. The actual infection of the joint with tubercle from the adjacent bone may take place at the periphery, the osseous focus reaching the surface of the bone at the site of the reflection of the synovial membrane, the infection beginning at this point, and then spreading to the rest of the membrane. Or it may take place in the central area by tuberculous pus escaping into the joint through a hole in the articular cartilage, or by the projection of tuberculous tissue into the joint following upon gradual erosion of the cartilage (Fig. 208). In the majority of cases the first evidence of disease in the joint is a diffuse thickening of the synovial membrane, chiefly due to the formation of granulation tissue, or young connective tissue, in its substance. This new tissue may be described as Fig. 208.—Section of Upper Eml of Fibula, showing caseating focus in marrow, erupting on articular surface and infecting joint.