540 INJURIES IN REGION OF ANKLE AND FOOT. of the leg, extending from the internal tuberosity of the tibia to well beyond the sole of the foot. A large pad is placed in the hollow above the internal malleolus, and must be thick enough to carry the splint so far from the limb that when the foot is fully inverted it does not touch the splint. The upper end of the splint having been fixed to the leg, a bandage is applied to correct the eversion of the foot, and at the same time to support the heel, and, as far as possible, to overcome the pointing of the toes. Care must be taken to avoid carrying the turns of this bandage over the seat of fracture. The limb may then be slung in a cradle, or placed on a pillow resting on its outer side with the knee flexed. In the course of a week or ten days a poroplastic or a Croft’s splint may be sub- stituted, and massage commenced. AVken backward displacement of the heel is the prominent deformity, Syme's horse-shoe splint (Fig. 173) may be found useful. It is applied to the anterior aspect of the limb, which is carefully padded to prevent undue pressure on the edge of the shin bone. In order that the splint may have a flat surface to rest up- on, the padding must be twice as thick over the inner as over the outer side of the Fig. 173.—Syme’s Horse-shoe Splint applied to correct backward displacement of foot. leg. After the upper end of the splint has been fixed below the knee, the heel is pulled forward by a few turns of bandage passed over the prongs at the lower end of the splint. The foot is then inverted and brought up to a right angle by a few supplementary turns of the bandage. In a week or ten days this appliance may be replaced by a poroplastic or a Croft’s splint. Mal-union of Pott’s fracture may necessitate an operation to restore the usefulness of the ankle. This consists in dividing the bone by means of an osteotome, forcibly inverting the foot, and then putting the limb up in the same way as a recent fracture. The Converse of Pott’s Fracture — sometimes called “Pott’s Fracture with Inversion.” — This injury is fairly common and results from forcible inversion of the foot. The external malleolus is broken across its base, or, in young subjects,