AFFECTIONS OF THE NAILS. 359 be excised widely ; in the extremities it may be best to amputate the limb. Affections of the Nails. Injuries.—When a nail is contused or crushed, blood is extravasated beneath it. The blood becomes black and the nail is usually shed, a new one growing in its place. A splinter underneath the nail causes great pain, and if organisms are carried in along with it, may give rise to septic complications. The free edge of the nail should be clipped away to allow of the removal of the foreign body and of disinfection of the wound. Trophic Changes.—The growth of the nails may be interfered with in any disturbance of the general health. The nails are apt to suffer along with the skin in nerve lesions, such as division of the nerve trunks of a limb, becoming curved, brittle, or furrowed, or they may be .shed. Onychia is the term applied to inflammation of the soft parts around the nail or of the matrix beneath it. The commonest form of onychia is that resulting from septic infection, which has already been referred to under “ Whitlow.” There is a super- ficial variety resulting from the extension beneath the nail of a purulent blister, lifting it up from its bed, and the pus is visible through the nail. The nail should be removed as well as the raised horny layer of the epidermis. A deeper and more troublesome onychia results from infection at the nail fold ; the infection spreads very slowly beneath the fold until it reaches the matrix, and a drop or two of pus forms beneath the nail, usually in the region of the lunule. This affection entails a disability of the finger which may last for many weeks unless it is properly treated. The nail fold and lunule should be frozen and a considerable portion removed with the knife ; if only a small portion of the nail is removed, the opening is blocked by granulations springing from the matrix. A new nail is formed. Tuberculous onychia (O. maligna) is chiefly met with in children and adolescents. It appears as a livid or red swelling at the root of the nail, spreading around its margins. The epidermis, which is thin and shiny, gives way, exposing a weak ulcer, and the nail is usually shed. The treatment is the same as in other tuberculous lesions. Syphilitic onychia assumes various aspects. A primary chancre at the edge of the nail may be mistaken for an ordinary whitlow, especially if it be attended with much pain. Other