BACTERIAL DISEASES. 551 ulceration as applied to soft parts. The carious process is always preceded by the formation of granulation tissue in the marrow or periosteum. The subsequent degeneration, or liquefaction of the granulation tissue into pus, necessarily results in destruction of the trabecular framework of the bone, whereby it is rendered soft and friable, and thus readily crumbles away. Clinically, carious bone yields a soft grating under the pressure of the probe. The student should regard caries, not as a disease in itself, but as the result of different diseases, and should therefore always add a qualifying adjective, such as suppurative, tuberculous, or syphilitic, which will indi- cate its nature. The term dry caries or caries sicca is applied to that variety which is unattended with suppuration ; it is well illustrated by the changes met with in the articular surfaces in certain forms of tuberculous disease of joints. Necrosis is the term applied to the death of a tangible portion of bone, and the separated portion is called a sequestrum. The term exfoliation is sometimes employed to indicate the separation or throwing off of a superficial sequestrum. Necrosis is regarded as the equivalent of sloughing or gangrene in soft parts, and, like caries, is to be looked upon as the result of disease and not as a separate entity. It should be clearly understood that the different morbid processes met with in bone originate in the same way and lead to the same general results as do similar processes in other tissues. The structural peculiarities of bone, however, and the important changes which take place in the skeleton during the period of growth modify certain of the clinical and pathological features. Our conceptions of the nature of the diseases which affect the skeleton have been rendered clearer and more accurate by the demonstration of the bacterial origin of the great majority of them. Classification of Diseases of Bone.—We shall consider the diseases of bone under the following headings:—Bacterial Diseases; Parasitic Diseases; Trophic Diseases ; Tumours and Cysts of Bone. Bacterial Diseases. The most important diseases in this group are the pyogenic and the tuberculous. It is convenient also to include the lesions of syphilis, although the causal organism has not yet been satisfactorily demonstrated.