679 THE KNEE-JOINT. floats. There is little pain or interference with the func- tions of the joint; the patient is usually able to walk, but is easily tired. The amount of fluid diminishes under rest, and increases after use of the joint. In a certain number of cases it may be possible to recognise some thickening of the synovial membrane, or the presence of friction or crepitation from the mutual contact of floating masses of fibrin or melon-seed bodies. This is best appreciated if the knee is alternately flexed and extended by the patient while the surgeon grasps and compresses it with both his hands. If the joint is opened, fibrinous material, often in the form of melon-seed bodies, may be found lining the synovial mem- brane and partially covering the articular surfaces. These may be found in the fluid withdrawn from the joint by tapping. Tuberculous hydrops is to be diagnosed from the effusion which results from sprain, from the hydrops of gonorrhoea, arthritis deformans, Charcot’s disease, and pyogenic dis- ease in an adjacent bone, and from the heemarthrosis met with in bleeders. Given a patient, and especially a young adult with fluid in the knee, and having excluded injury, it is most likely due either to tuberculosis or gonorrhoea. The presence of melon-seed bodies is confirmatory of the diagnosis of tubercle. Tuberculous hydrops is especially amenable to conservative treatment by rest and by injections of iodoform. Relapse, however, is not uncommon, and ex- perience shows that if the disease is neglected there may be a gradual transition from an innocent hydrops into the graver types of synovial tuberculosis. Papillary or Nodular Tubercle of the Synovial Membrane.— This may be employed as a clinical term to distinguish a condition in which there is a fringy, papillary, or polypoidal growth from the synovial membrane. It is most often met with in adult males between the ages of twenty and forty. The Fig. 232.—Tuberculous Hydrops of Knee with distension of subcrural bursa.