720 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. rheumatism or neuralgia, or to disease of the bones or joints. The most common seat of pain is at the inner border of the foot behind the tubercle of the scaphoid, and this is due to stretching of the inferior scaphoid ligaments. Pain is also complained of in the middle of the dorsum across the instep, from stretching of the interosseous ligaments. Later there is pain over the greater process of the os calcis in front of the external malleolus from these bones coming into contact. There may be nocturnal cramp-like pains in the legs and feet. On examination the faulty attitude of the feet in standing and walking is usually evident. The muscles of the leg are soft, flabby, and poorly developed. When the patient is seated and asked to move the foot in different directions, there is a characteristic stiffness, ungainliness, and want of control over the movements. The foot appears longer and broader than normal, and on standing it tends to spread out with the toes extended until the entire sole is in contact with the ground. In more advanced cases the inner border of the foot is not only in contact with the ground, but may be actually convex. Below and in front of the prominent internal malleolus, the head of the astragalus forms a rounded eminence, and a little further forwards and lower still is the projection of the tubercle of the scaphoid. The eversion of the foot as a whole is best seen from behind. If the vertical axis of the leg is prolonged downwards, it approaches the inner border of the heel instead of passing through its centre. When the abduction is more pronounced, the sole looks outwards and the tendons of the peronei stand out in relief. The anterior part of the foot is displaced outwards. Flat-foot is frequently associated with hallux rigidus or hallux valgus. The feet are usually cold and damp, and sweat excessively. The gait is slouching, and there is a want of spring and elasticity. The boots after being worn show a bulging of the instep towards the sole, greater wearing away of the sole along the inner border, and, where there is hallux rigidus, an absence of the transverse crease on the dorsum opposite the balls of the toes. Footprints may be obtained by wetting the soles of the feet and asking the patient to stand. The print of a normal foot shows only the heel, the outer border of the foot, and the balls and tips of the toes. In flat-foot the inner border appears in the print to a greater or less extent. If a permanent record is wanted to estimate the effect of treatment, the prints should be taken on smoked paper. The sole of the foot may be everted into the valgus attitude