510 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. femur. These tests must be employed with great caution lest the deformity be increased or the fracture be rendered compound. In children, especially below the age of ten, this fracture is of very common occurrence. It is often of the greenstick variety, or, if complete, is transverse and sub-periosteal, so that it is ac- companied by few symptoms and but little deformity. It is therefore liable to be overlooked. Prognosis.—The patient must be confined to bed for six or eight weeks (children for three or four), and should use a reten- tive apparatus and crutches for three or four weeks longer, before bearing his weight upon the limb. The old dictum of Nelaton that the treatment of fracture of the thigh should last for a hun- dred days is a safe working-rule. In cases of oblique fracture the patient should be warned that, however successful the treatment may be, shortening to the ex- Fig. 154.—Local Gooch Splints applied for Fracture of Shaft of Femur. The splints reach to the fold of the buttock. tent of from three-quarters to one inch is liable to result. This does not necessarily imply a permanent limp, as by tilting the pelvis he may be enabled to walk quite well. Union is often exceedingly slow in fracture of the femur, and may even be delayed for months. It is also common to meet with malunion, the fracture uniting with, an angular deformity outward and forward. If the patient falls refracture may easily occur, and is not uncommon within some months of the original injury. In many fractures of the thigh, and especially in those produced by indirect violence, there is a considerable effusion into the knee-joint which often leads to prolonged stiffness. Treatment.—Reduction should be effected under an ansesthetic. Extension strapping is then applied well above the seat of the fracture, and the seat of fracture is enclosed in a ferrule of Gooch splinting (Fig. 154), and a double long splint applied. It is often necessary to employ as much as ten or twelve pounds or more to maintain extension after reduction. Massage should