G90 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. a little depressed in relation to the great trochanter. The acetabulum is narrow, elongated, and shallow, and is often partly filled up with fat and connective tissue. In children who have reached the stage of walking it is usually triangular, with the apex above and behind. In contrast to what is observed in traumatic dislocations, a new socket is very rarely formed, because the head of the femur is separated from the ilium by the thick capsule of the joint. With increasing years the neck of the femur becomes atrophied, and forms Avith the shaft an angle which approaches a right angle. The capsular ligament is unusually thick, and is elongated, and may sometimes assume an hour-glass shape as a result of the play of the head of the femur. The ligamentum teres, which is nearly always present in the unilateral dislocation, is also elongated and strongly developed. When absent, as it frequently is in bilateral dislocations, it has probably never been developed. The muscles undergo important alterations both in length and direction ; those Avhich pass more or less horizontally from the pelvis to the trochanter are elongated, AA’hile those which run longitudinally, including the adductors and ham- strings, are shortened. Clinical Features.—The condition rarely attracts attention until the child begins to walk, and this may be delayed until the age of two or even three years. In unilateral dislocation there is a decided limp and shortening of the limb on the affected side. The limp in walking is not only due to the shortening from the head of the bone sliding upwards on the ilium, but also to the alteration in the direction of the muscles, especially of the gluteus medius and minimus. These muscles, which normally maintain the pelvis horizontal, are no longer able to do so, and every time the child puts the dislocated limb to the ground and lifts the other one, the trunk suddenly lurches to the sound side. The shortening, which increases with age, and may finally amount to several inches, is partly compensated for by resting the affected limb on the balls of the toes and 'flexing the knee of the sound limb. On examination of the affected limb, and especially on comparing it with the healthy side, it is observed that there is slight wasting of the buttock and thigh, and considerable prominence of the trochanter, and that the gluteal fold is straighter and 'deeper (Fig. 236). The limb can be moved freely in all directions except abduction. The trochanter is well