244 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. form of bleeding is often serious after operations in which, an elastic tourniquet has been employed, and in bleeders. In relation to the time at which it occurs, haemorrhage is spoken of as primary, reactionary, and secondary. Primary haemorrhage is that which immediately follows a wound of a blood-vessel. Treatment.—It is convenient to consider separately the treat- ment of primary haemorrhage, as it occurs in an accidentally- inflicted wound, and in the course of a surgical operation. Surgical Arrest of Accidental Haemorrhage.—In attempt- ing to stop bleeding it is well to bear in mind the factors which promote its spontaneous ari’est, and to endeavour, as far as possible, to imitate the natural process. The first step in arresting bleeding from a wound is to clear away all clots which may have formed, as these obscure the bleeding point. If the haemorrhage is from a partially-divided vessel, this should be completely cut across to enable its walls to contract and retract, and to facilitate the application of forceps and ligatures. As the formation of a coagulum is favoured by a weak condition of the circulation and by a low blood pressure, active stimulation of the patient should be avoided, and absolute rest ensured. Elevation of the bleeding part is indicated, especially in the case of a limb, and flexion of the joint on the proximal side of the bleeding-point—knee or elbow—is often of value. When the bleeding is profuse, further measures must be taken. The most efficient means of temporarily controlling profuse haemorrhage is by pressure applied with the finger, or with a pad of gauze, directly over the bleeding point. While this is maintained an assistant makes digital pressure, or applies a tourniquet, over the main vessel of the limb on the proximal side of the bleeding point. A useful emergency tourniquet may be improvised by folding a large handkerchief en cravatte, with a cork or piece of wood in the fold to act as a pad. The hand- kerchief is applied round the limb, with the pad over the main artery, and the ends knotted on the outer aspect of the limb. With a strong piece of wood the handkerchief is wound up like a Spanish windlass, until sufficient pressure is exerted to arrest the bleeding. The haemorrhage being thus controlled, the surgeon proceeds to apply a ligature to each end of the bleeding vessels in the way presently to be described. Haemorrhage in Surgical Operations.—The management of the haemorrhage which accompanies a surgical operation includes (a) preventive measures, and (b) the arrest of the bleeding. Prevention of Haemorrhage.—The most convenient and