170 SYPHILIS. contraction of syphilis and conception, the less severe is the inherited disease. It is impossible to explain such vagaries of syphilitic inheritance as the infection of one twin and the escape of the other. While it is absolutely certain that either parent may be responsible for the transmission of the disease to the next generation, the exact method of transmission is not known. It is most probable that in the case of a syphilitic mother the infection is conveyed to the foetus by the placental circulation. In the case of a syphilitic father, it is difficult to believe the common statement that the infection is conveyed to the ovum through the seminal fluid at the moment of conception ; it is more probable that the father infects the foetus through the mother, although she herself may present no external evidence of constitutional syphilis. This is borne out by the fact that years afterwards she may suffer from tertiary lesions. The syphilitic virus exercises a very injurious influence on the foetus ; it may cause its death during the early months of pregnancy, in which case a miscarriage results; or the foetus may die nearer the full time, the child being still-born. On the other hand, when the virus is attenuated, the foetus may survive and be born alive, and after a variable interval the infant presents the manifestations of constitutional syphilis. The taint may be so severe as to cause the death of the infant, or may be so attenuated that it suffers but slightly and grows up more or less like other children, often retaining, however, permanent evidences of its syphilitic inheritance. Clinical Features.—We are here concerned, not with the severe forms of the disease in which the manifestations appear shortly after birth and soon prove fatal, but with the milder forms in which the infant may present the appearance of perfect health for several weeks. The usual phenomena are that it ceases to thrive, becomes thin and sallow, suffers from eruptions on the skin and mucous membranes, and from snuffles. This term is applied to a condition in which the nasal passages are obstructed by an accumulation of thin muco-purulent discharge mixed with blood, which causes the breathing to be noisy. While this condition may be met with in young infants from a simple catarrh, when it persists and occurs apart from other catarrhal accompaniments it is always suggestive of syphilis. It usually appears within a month after birth and before the eruptions on the skin. When long-continued it is liable to interfere with the development of the nasal bones, so that when the child