448 INJURIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. an incision carried along the anterior border of the deltoid, and the ends pegged, wired, or otherwise mechanically fixed, after which the limb is put up in one of the ways already described. After Treatment.—The apparatus should be worn for three or four weeks, massage being commenced on the second or third day. Union is usually complete in about four weeks. Separation of Epiphysis.—The upper epiphysis of the humerus includes the head, both tuberosities, and the upper fourth of the bicipital groove. On its under aspect is a cup-like depression into which the central portion of the diaphysis tits. This epiphysis unites about the twenty-first year. Traumatic separation is chiefly met with between the fifth and fifteenth years, and is most common in males. It usually re- sults from forcible traction of the arm up- wards and outwards, or from direct violence, but may be caused by a fall on the outer side of the elbow. If the periosteum is not torn, the epiphysis, especially in young children, may be separated without being displaced, or the displacement may be incomplete. When complete separation occurs, the clinical features closely resemble those of fracture of the surgical neck, and the dia- gnosis is made by a consideration of the age of the patient, and the muffled character of the crepitus, when it can be elicited. The upper end of the diaphysis forms a projecting edge which may be felt nearer the coracoid process than in fracture of the surgical neck. Dislocation is so rare at the age when separation of the epiphysis is possible that these injuries are not likely to be confused with one another. Reduction is often difficult, on account of the periosteum and other soft tissues getting between the fragments, and on account of the small size of the upper fragment preventing its being manipulated. Strong, firm union almost invariably results, but the growth of the limb may be seriously interfered with (Fig. 105), and its shape is sometimes much altered, especially when the injury occurs at a very early age and its Fig. 105.—Shortening of Upper Arm from In- jury to Upper Epi- physis in Childhood.