HAEMORRHAGE. 243 usually tears the internal and middle coats, and so pulls the adventitial coat together. The ligature and the small portion of vessel beyond it are subsequently absorbed. Hemorrhage. Various terms are employed in relation to haemorrhage according to its seat, its origin, the time at which it occurs, and other circumstances. The term external haemorrhage is employed when the blood escapes directly to the surface ; when the bleeding takes place into the tissues or into a cavity it is spoken of as internal. The blood may infiltrate the connective tissue of the skin or of deeper parts, constituting an extravasation of blood; or it may collect in a definite space or cavity and form a hcematoma. The coughing up of blood from the lungs is known as haemoptysis; vomiting of blood from the stomach as hcemat emesis; the passage of stools black from blood as melcena, and the passage of bloody urine as hcematuria. Such terms as cerebral, pulmonary, renal, uterine, applied to haemorrhage, obviously indicate the organ which is the seat of the bleeding. Haemorrhage is known as arterial, venous, or capillary, according to the nature of the vessel from which it takes place. In arterial haemorrhage the blood is bright red in colour, and escapes from the cardiac end of the divided vessel in forcible jets synchronously with the systole of the heart. In very vascular tissues—for example, the face—both ends of a divided artery bleed freely. The blood flowing from an artery may be dark in colour if the patient’s respiration is impeded. The flow is some- times continuous and not in jets when the heart’s action is weak and the blood tension low, or when the bleeding takes place into a deep wound and not directly onto the free surface. Venous bleeding is not pulsatile, but occurs in a continuous stream, which, although both ends often bleed, is most copious from the distal end of the vessel. The blood is dark red under ordinary conditions, but may be purplish, or even black, if the patient is becoming asphyxiated. When one of the large veins in the neck is wounded the effects of respiration produce a rise and fall in the blood-stream which may resemble arterial pulsation. Bleeding from the cardiac end of a varicose vein may be very copious. In capillary haemorrhage red blood escapes from numerous points on the surface of the wound in a slow, steady ooze. This