19G TUMOURS. malignancy is shown by the proliferating epithelium invading the other coats of the stomach or intestine, and by the fact that it gives rise to secondary growths. Glandular carcinoma originates in glandular organs, such as the breast, and in the glands of mucous membranes and skin. The epithelial cells are not arranged on any definite plan, but are closely packed in irregularly-shaped alveoli. If the alveoli are large and the intervening stroma is scanty and delicate, the tumour is soft and brain-like, and is described as a medullary or encephaloid cancer. If the alveoli are small and the intervening stroma is abundant and composed of dense fibrous tissue, the tumour is hard, and is known as a scirrhus cancer—a form which is most frequently met with in the breast. If the cells undergo degeneration and absorption, and the stroma con- tracts, the tumour becomes still harder, and tends to shrink or contract and to draw in the surrounding parts, in the breast leading to retraction of the nipple and overlying skin, and in the case of the stomach and intestine to narrowing of the lumen. When the cells of the tumour undergo colloid de- generation, a rare form of cancer—colloid cancer—is produced. Melanin pigment is formed in relation to the cells and stroma of certain epithelial tumours, giving rise to the melanotic cancer (Figs. 70, 71). Cystic carcinomata are those in which cyst- like spaces are formed in the tumour by the accumulation of the secretion of the epithelial cells, or as a result of their degeneration. They are chiefly met with in the breast and ovary, and resemble very closely the cystic adenomata, only they tend to infect their surroundings and to give rise to secondary growths. Rodent cancer originates in the glands of the skin, and presents a special tendency to break down and ulcerate on the surface. It very rarely infects the adjacent lymphatic glands. Dermoids.—The term dermoid is applied to any tumour which contains skin or mucous membrane in a situation where these tissues do not occur under normal conditions. They arise, for the most part, in detached or sequestrated portions of skin in situations where, during embiyonic life, coalescence takes place between cutaneous surfaces, some of the cells of the epidermis remaining deeply embedded during the process of coalescence and subsequently becoming the starting-point of a dermoid. A dermoid occasionally takes the form of a recess lined with skin, but more commonly it assumes the form of a globular tumour consisting of a central cavity lined by stratified squamous