DISEASES OF BONE. 552 In the majority of these diseases the organisms reach their seat of action in the bones by way of the blood-stream, having entered the circulation either from a pre-existing focus, of disease in another part of the body, or through the skin or one of the internal mucous surfaces. In certain cases the infection takes place directly, either through a wound or from a contiguous area of disease. Pyogenic Diseases of Bone.—These diseases result from infection with pyogenic organisms, and are most commonly met with while the growth of the skeleton is in active progress. They include not only all the conditions which run an acute course and are attended with the formation of pus, such as acute suppurative osteomyelitis, but also certain affections which run a more chronic course and are not associated with suppuration. Diseases caused by the Staphylococcus Aureus.—Inasmuch as the vast majority of pyogenic diseases are due to infection with the staphylococcus aureus, these will be described first. They include—1. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis and Peri- ostitis ; 2. Serous or Albuminous Osteomyelitis and Periostitis; 3. Growth Fever; 4. Relapsing Osteomyelitis, including abscess of bone; and 5. Osteomyelitis which is chronic from the outset. Acute Osteomyelitis and Periostitis.—The bone marrow during the period of growth constitutes a specially favourable seat for the deposition and development of staphylococci. In some cases a possible source of infection through the skin exists in the form of eczema, acne pustules, small infected wounds, or septic conditions at the umbilicus in the newly born. The internal mucous surfaces are perhaps the more frequent site of entrance of the cocci. Although proof of this is rarely obtain- able, it is rendered probable by osteomyelitis being some- times preceded by excoriations and fissures in the mouth and nose, by adenoids, small tonsillar abscesses, or by intestinal disturbances, such as diarrhoea. Staphylococci may enter the general circulation and be deposited in a living state in the marrow without there being any immediate evidence of such infection, or only such minor disturbances of health as may be indicated by slight indisposition or feverishness, and shooting “rheumatic” pains in the limbs. Conditions causing extravasation of blood into the tissues or disturbing their nutrition, may act as localising factors in the production of osteomyelitis—as, for example, a blow or other form of injury, some extra exertion such as a long walk, or exposure to cold, as in wading.