357 AFFECTIONS OF CICATRICES. most common is the alveolar sarcoma, which commences as a hard lump and steadily increases in size until the epidermis gives way and an ulcer is formed. A number of fresh tumours may spring up around the original growth. Sometimes the primary appearance is in the form of multiple nodules in the skin which tend to become confluent. Excision, unless performed early, is of little avail. Affections of Cicatrices. A cicatrix consists of closely packed bundles of white fibres covered by epidermis; the skin glands and hair follicles are usually absent. The size, shape, and level of the cicatrix depend upon the conditions which preceded healing. A healthy scar has a smooth, glossy surface of a pinkish colour when recently formed, but tending to become whiter as a result of obliteration of the blood-vessels concerned in its formation. Weal- Scars.—A scar is said to be weak when it readily breaks down as a result of irritation or pressure. The scars resulting from severe burns are especially liable to break down from trivial causes. The best treatment is to excise the weak portion of the scar and to cover the raw surface with Thiersch grafts. Contracted scars are a frequent cause of deformity either by displacing parts, such as the eyelid or lip, or by fixing parts and preventing the normal movements—for example, a scar on the flexor aspect of a joint (Fig. 42). These are treated by dividing the scar, stretching it and filling up the gap with Thiersch grafts. When the deformity is due to the depression of the scar beneath the general skin level, as is not uncommon after the healing of a deeply seated abscess or sinus, the best treatment is to excise the scar and bring the edges of the gap together. The procedure known as “Adam’s operation” consists in undercutting the scar with a tenotomy knife pushed in from the side, and maintaining it at the skin level by means of two hare-lip pins passed underneath it at right angles to each other. Another method of elevating depressed scars is by the subcutaneous injection of sterilised paraffin. Painful Scars.—When there is marked pain in relation to a scar it is usually due to the implication of nerves in the cicatricial tissue; the nerve fibres are compressed or stretched, and in some cases there results an ascending neuritis. The treatment consists in excising the scar or in stretching or excising a portion of the nerve affected.