PREVENTION OE WOUND-INFECTION. 33 sweeping, dusting, and disturbing of curtains, blinds, or furniture must therefore be avoided before or during an operation. It has been shown experimentally that the presence of spectators increases the number of organisms in the atmosphere. In teaching clinics, therefore, the risk from air infection is greater than in private practice. To facilitate primary union, all haemorrhage should be care- fully arrested, and the accumulation of fluids in the wound prevented. When much oozing of serum or blood is anticipated, a glass or rubber drainage-tube should be inserted through a small opening specially made for the purpose. In aseptic wounds the tube may be removed in from twenty-four to forty- eight hours; in infected wounds it must remain as long as the discharge lasts. The edges of the wound should be brought into accurate apposition by sutures. If any cavity exists in the deeper part of the wound, it should be obliterated by buried sutures, or by so adjusting the dressing as to bring its walls into appo- sition. If our precautions have been successful, the wound will heal under the original dressing, which need not be interfered with for from ten to fourteen days according to the nature of the case. Dressings.—Gauze, either sterilised by heat, or impregnated with corrosive sublimate, double cyanide of mercury and zinc, iodoform, or other antiseptic agent, is now widely used in the treatment of wounds. Pads of sterilised gauze are extensively used as a dressing for operation wounds. By some surgeons double cyanide gauze is preferred. Iodoform gauze is of special value for the packing of wounds treated fry the open method. One variety or another of wool, rendered absorbent by the extraction of its fat, forms a part of almost every surgical dressing; and various antiseptic agents may be added to it. Of these corrosive sublimate is the most generally used. Wood - wool dressings are more highly and more uniformly absorbent than cotton wools. As evaporation takes place through wool dressings, the discharge becomes dried, and so forms an unfavourable medium for bacterial growth. Boracic Lint is prepared by soaking ordinary lint in a hot concentrated solution of boracic acid and then drying it. It is usually employed as a wet dressing or poultice, being wrung out of boracic lotion, applied to the part, and covered with gutta- percha tissue. VOL. I—3