FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. 471 the muscles to be separated and give access to the callus. When the limb is straight it is only necessary to gouge away the exuberant callus which interferes with rotatory movements ; but when there is an angular deformity (Fig. 122) the bones must, in addition, be divided and reset, and, if necessary, wired in good position. In recent cases it is sometimes possible forcibly to re-fracture the bones, and to set them anew without operation. Ununited fracture of the bones of the forearm is treated on the usual lines. Fracture of the shaft of the radius alone may be due to a direct blow, to a fall on the hand, or to forcible pronation against resistance, as in wringing clothes. It is rare in com- parison with fracture of both bones. When broken above the insertion of the pronator radii teres, the upper fragment is flexed and supinated by the biceps and supinator brevis, while the lower fragment remains semi-prone, and is drawn towards the ulna by the pronator quadratus. When the fracture is below the pronator radii teres the displacement depends upon the direction of the force and the obliquity of the fracture. In fractures of the lower third of the shaft the hand may be flexed toward the radial side, raising the styloid process, and so simulating a Colles’ fracture. In addition to the ordinary signs of fracture, there is loss of complete pronation and supination. The head of the radius as a rule does not move with the lower part of the shaft, but may do so if the fracture is incomplete or impacted. Fracture of the shaft of the ulna alone is also compara- tively rare. It is almost always due to a direct blow sustained while protecting the head from a stroke, or to a fall on the ulnar edge of the forearm. The upper third is most frequently broken, and this injury is often associated with dislocation of the head of the radius, or some other injury implicating the elbow-joint. On account of the superficial position of the bone this fracture is frequently compound. The displacement depends on the direction of the force, the fragments being usually driven towards the interosseous space. There is seldom marked deformity unless the head of the radius is dislocated at the same time. The diagnosis is, as a rule, easy. The treatment is the same as for fracture of both bones, but the splints may be dispensed with at the end of a fortnight or three weeks.