38G INJURIES OF BONES. the limits of their elasticity, and giving way near their angles. In such fractures the soft parts do not suffer by the violence causing the fracture, but they may be injured by displacement of the fragments. In fractures by muscular action the bone is broken by “ traction ” or “tearing.” The sudden and violent contraction of a muscle may tear off an epiphysis, such as the head of the fibula, the anterior-superior iliac spine, or the coronoid process of the ulna; or a bony process may be separated, as, for example, the tuberosity of the os calcis, the coracoid process of the scapula, or the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Long bones also may be broken by muscular action. The clavicle has snapped across during the act of swinging a stick, the humerus in throwing a stone, and the femur when a kick has missed its object. Fractures of ribs have occurred during fits of coughing or in the violent efforts of parturition. Before concluding that a given fracture is the result of muscular action alone, it is necessary to exclude the co- existence of any of the conditions which lead to pathological or spontaneous fracture. Although the force acting upon the bone is the primary factor in the production of fractures, there are others to be considered. Thus the age of the patient is of importance. During infancy and early childhood fractures are less common than at any other period of life, and are usually transverse, incomplete, and of the nature of bends. During adult life, especially between the ages of thirty and forty, the frequency of fractures reaches its maximum. In aged persons, although the bones become more brittle, by the marrow spaces in their interior becoming larger and filled with fat, fractures are less frequent, doubtless because the old are less exposed to such violence as is likely to produce fracture. Males, from the nature of their occupations and recreations, sustain fractures much more frequently than do females, except in extreme old age, when the opposite is the case. A liability to fracture is often hereditary, members of certain families showing a marked predisposition to this form of injury. Bennett of Dublin has drawn attention to the fact that the characters of a given fracture may be inferred from a considera- tion of—(1) the shape and structure of the affected bone, and (2) the nature of the fracturing force. As there is great uniformity in the shape, construction, and relative strength of a particular bone in different subjects, and as each part of any particular bone is liable to the same kinds and degrees of