PREDISPOSITION TO TUBERCULOSIS. 137 this way infect distant parts of the body, or give rise to general tuberculosis. In some cases the transference of the infective material is more direct—for example, when a softened mesenteric gland erupts into a contiguous vein, and so infects the circu- lating blood, or erupts on to the peritoneum covering the mesentery, and so sets up a tuberculous peritonitis. Predisposition to Tuberculosis.—That some individuals are more prone to become the subjects of tuberculosis than others is evident from the fact that while under the existing conditions of civilised life all are exposed to the infection, only a compara- tively small number acquire the disease. The precise conditions which favour the entrance, lodgment, and growth of the bacilli in those predisposed to the disease are somewhat uncertain. It may be that there is some peculiarity of the tissues which renders them a specially suitable soil for the organisms, or that the patient’s power of resisting the invasion of the virus is abnormally low. In any case, with regard to the etiology of tuberculosis, this predisposition is to be looked upon as a factor almost as important as the presence of the bacilli themselves. In some cases the predisposition is inherited, in others it is acquired. Those who inherit the predisposition usually belong to families in which the disease is specially rife, and although as children they may have all the appearance of being healthy and even robust, if exposed to infection they are much more liable to contract tuberculosis than are members of families in which the disease is unknown. The inherited predisposition dates from the commencement of life, and only terminates with it. Children are very seldom born with tuberculous lesions, and in the recorded cases of congenital tuberculosis there has almost always been some tuberculous disease present in the generative organs of the mother. There is abundant evidence that the common diseases of infancy and childhood,—such, for example, as whooping-cough, measles, influenza, bronchial catarrh, broncho-pneumonia, and rickets,—by impairing the general health and lowering the resist- ing powers of the individual, exert an important influence in producing an acquired predisposition to tuberculosis. Tuber- culous affections frequently date from an attack of one or other of these illnesses, the inflamed and catarrhal condition of the respiratory and other mucous membranes doubtless favouring the occurrence of tuberculous infection. Confinement in crowded dwellings, schoolrooms, workshops, and factories is also injurious, as it entails the breathing of impure air which