FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. 533 splints, retained by an elastic bandage, may be substituted, and the patient allowed up on crutches. Union is usually complete in from six to eight weeks. Operative Treatment.—When overriding cannot otherwise be corrected it is advisable to secure the fracture mechanically by operation. A curved incision with its convexity backward is made over the inner side of the tibia, exposing the fragments which are then screwed, pegged, or wired according to circumstances. It is seldom necessary to deal specially with the fibula. A box splint is applied till the wound has healed, after which a Croft’s splint is substituted and massage commenced. We do not share in the dissatisfac- tion expressed by some surgeons, notably Arbuthnot Lane, as to the results ob- tained by non-operative means in these fractures, and do not recommend a systematic resort to operative treatment. Ununited f racture of the bones of the leg is sometimes met with. It is treated on the same lines as in other situations, but may prove extremely intractable, especially in the case of children, in whom indeed it is sometimes incurable. Mal-union, on account of the dis- ability it entails, may call for operative treatment in the form of osteotomy of one or both bones. Compound fractures are treated on the lines already laid down for the treat- „ , ,, „ . , ment of compound fractures m general. Fracture of both Bones of Fracture of the tibia alone is due to Leg. direct violence or to a twist of the foot. There is little displacement, as the intact fibula retains the fragments in position, and union takes place rapidly and without deformity. Fracture of the fibula alone may result from direct violence, and, on account of the support given by the tibia, is usually unattended by displacement or deformity. Bennett of Dublin has pointed out that it is common to meet with an oblique fracture of the upper third of the fibula as the result of an outward twist of the ankle while the foot is extended. This fracture is characterised by pain localised at the seat of the