192 TUMOURS. the various forms of papillomata are considered under the individual tissues and organs. Adenoma.—An adenoma is a tumour constructed on the type of, and growing in connection with, a secreting gland. In the substance of such glands as the mamma, parotid, thyroid, and prostate, adenomata are met with as encapsulated tumours. When they originate from the glands of the skin or of a mucous membrane, they tend to project from the surface, and sometimes form pedunculated tumours or polypi. Adenomata may be single or multiple, and they vary in size from a pea to an adult human head. The tumour is seldom composed entirely of gland tissue. It usually contains a considerable proportion of fibrous tissue, and is called a fibro- adenoma. When it contains myxomatous tissue it is called a myxo-adenoma, and when the gland spaces of the tumour become distended with accumulated secretion, a cystic adenoma, the best examples of which are met with in the mamma and ovary. A characteristic feature of the cystic variety is the tendency the tumour tissue exhibits to project into the interior of the cysts, constituting what are known as intra-cystic growths. They are essentially innocent, and when removed by opera- tion show no tendency to recur. At the same time, transition forms between adenoma and carcinoma are met with, especially in the intestine, and these should be treated on the same lines as cancer. Carcinomata or Cancers. A cancer is a malignant tumour which originates in epithelium. The cells which form the essential constituent of a cancer are derived by proliferation from already-existing epithelium, and they invade the sub-epithelial connective tissue in the form of simple or branching columns. These columns are enclosed in spaces—termed alveoli—which are probably dilated lymphatic spaces, and which communicate freely with the lymphatic vessels. The cells composing the columns and filling the alveoli vary with the character of the epithelium in which the cancer originates. The malignancy of cancer depends on this capacity of the epithelium of invading the tissues in its neighbourhood, and on the capacity of the cells, when transported elsewhere by the lymph or blood-stream, of giving rise to secondary growths. Cancer may arise on any surface covered by epithelium or in any of the secreting glands of the body, but it is much more common in some situations than in others. It is very frequently