730 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. present at birth or appears in early childhood, and may form part of an overgrowth involving the entire lower extremity (Fig. 258). The overgrowth may involve all the tissues equally, or the subcutaneous fat may be specially affected. The inner toes are those most commonly hypertrophied. In addition to the enlargement, the toe may be displaced from its normal axis. The hypertrophy may affect two or more toes which are fused together or webbed. The treatment consists in amputating as much of the toe as will allow of the patient wearing an ordinary boot. Supernumerary Toes (Polydactylism).—These vary from mere appendages of skin to fully developed toes. If they interfere with the use or appearance of the foot, they may be removed. Webbing of the Toes (Syndactylism).—This may affect two or more of the toes, and it varies from a condition in which they are merely united by a web of skin to one in which they are so completely fused that the individual digits are only indicated by the nails. The degree of fusion is readily shown by means of skiagrams. Unless associated with congenital hypertrophy no treatment is called for. DEFORMITIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Congenital Absence of the Clavicle.—Both clavicles may be absent without there being any noticeable deformity or impair- ment of function. In such cases it is possible for the patient to bring his shoulders into contact with one another in front of the chest. Displacements of the Scapula.—Mention may first be made of the congenital upward displacement of this bone. The one shoulder appears higher than the other, the trapezius is prominent, and the dorsal spine is convex to the affected side. In addition to the upward displacement the scapula is also tilted so that its inferior angle approaches the spine and its axillary border is nearly horizontal. It is sometimes associated with imperfect development of the lower part of the trapezius. When the functions of the arm are not interfered with there is no indication for treatment. When, however, abduction is seriously restricted as a result of the posterior superior angle of the bone coming into contact with the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, this angle of the bone may be removed. Winged Scapula.—This condition consists in a marked dis- placement backwards of the lower angle and vertebral border of