589 OSTEOMALACIA Late Rickets, Malacia of Puberty, Rachitis Adolescentium.—Under this head are included conditions which are essentially the same as those already described, only the disease is not attended with any disturbance of the general health, and is more local, the pathological changes being confined to the ossifying junctions, specially affecting those which are most active during adolescence—for example, at the knee-joint. It is met with at any age from nine to seventeen, and is generally believed to he due to a recrudescence of rickets which had been present in early childhood. It may play an important part in the production of certain deformities which occur at or near puberty,—especially genu valgum, genu varum, and coxa vara, —and it may be indirectly concerned in the production of such deformities as scoliosis and flat foot. Scurvy-Rickets, Haemorrhagic Rickets.—This disease, described by Barlow and Cheadle, is usually regarded as a combination of scurvy and rickets, although, according to Ashby, the haemorrhagic element in the disease is the result of anaemia. It is met with in infants under two years who have been brought up upon sterilised or condensed milk and other proprietary foods, and chiefly in the well-to-do classes. It is characterised by anaemia, severe pains in the bones, and by the occurrence of fractures and separation of epiphyses attended with sub-periosteal haemorrhage, chiefly in relation to the bones of the thigh or leg. When a fracture takes place the infant ceases to move the limb and screams if it is touched, and an excessively tender swelling may be recognised in the region of the epiphysial junction or adjacent shaft. The skin becomes tense and shiny, and there may be crepitus. As in ordinary scurvy, there may be extravasations of blood in relation to the muscles and the skin, appearing on the surface as bruises. The disease may simulate one or other of the pyogenic bone affections or a sub-periosteal fracture of traumatic origin. The treatment consists in correcting the errors in diet. The infant should have a wet nurse or a plentiful supply of cow’s milk in its natural state. Anti-scorbutics may be given in the form of orange, lemon, or grape juice, and of potatoes bruised down in the milk. Under this treatment a marked improvement usually takes place within a few days, the haemorrhages cease, and the extravasated blood is gradually reabsorbed, The further treatment is that of rickets. Osteomalacia.—The term osteomalacia is used to include a group of conditions in which the bones become soft and yielding, so that they are unduly liable to bend or break. That form which is associated with rickets has already been described. The osteomalacia of pregnant and puerperal women is the commonest and best known member of this group. It is chiefly met with in women of the poorer classes who bear children under unhealthy conditions. It is more common in those parts of South Germany bordering on the Rhine, and in certain parts of Italy, than in this country. While it may occur during a first pregnancy, it is chiefly met with in multiparous women. It is usually confined to the pelvis and lumbar vertebrae, but in extreme instances may involve the entire skeleton. The essential feature is the absorption of lime salts from the affected bones; the bone matrix, thus decalcified, disappears in its turn, so that the bones may be broken, bent or indented, or pulled out at the attachments of muscles. After death they may be cut with a knife or squeezed like a sponge. In the progressive stage of the disease the marrow becomes very vascular, loses its fat, and is converted into a gelatinous tissue variously coloured with blood pigment ; hemorrhages