DEFECTIVE UNION OF FRACTURES. 409 matter of fact, most cases of defective union occur in patients of middle age, and one of tlie most inveterate forms is met with in children. The most common local cause of non-union is the interposition of portions of muscle, tendon, or other soft tissue between the ends of the bones. This is most liable to occur in oblique fractures with overlapping of the fragments. Where the fragments are widely separated, as in the patella or olecranon; where a large segment of a bone is shattered and the fragments lost, as in some com- pound fractures ; or where a sequestrum forms between the fragments, osseous union is obviously impossible, and fibrous union all that can be hoped for. Any interference with the circulation of the limb and any form of bacterial infection leading to suppuration are liable to end in defective union. Fractures inside the capsule of joints, as in the hip and shoulder, often fail to unite, probably because the short fragment has but a poor vascular supply, and because it is impossible to maintain accurate apposition. Delayed Union.—The normal period for union of individual bones may be extended from one or other of these causes. At the time when union should be firm and solid it may be found that the fragments are only united by a soft cartilaginous callus, which for a prolonged period may undergo no further change; so that the limb remains incapable of bearing weight or otherwise performing its functions. Treatment.—In such cases the general condition of the patient should be improved as far as possible by a change to the seaside, careful dieting and tonics. Much benefit often follows the application, above the seat of fracture, of an elastic bandage sufficiently tight to congest the limb beyond (Bier). To concentrate the congestion in the vicinity of the fracture an ordinary bandage should be applied from the distal extremity to within a few inches of the break, and the congestion should be maintained for several hours (six to twelve) daily. When possible an accurately fitting apparatus should be adjusted to enable the patient to get into the fresh air. Fig. 86.—Uii-unitecl Fracture of Shaft of Humerus following gunshot injury. Patient is attempting to raise the arm from the side. (Mr. MacGillivray’s case.)