530 INJURIES IN REGION OF KNEE AND LEG. fissure passing along the back of the bone into the ankle-joint— a complication which adds to the risk of subsequent stiffness and impaired usefulness of the limb. We have frequently found the superior tibio-fibular articulation torn open in severe fractures of both bones of the leg. Clinical Features.—The tibial fracture is always readily recognised by running the fingers along the crest of the shin, an irregularity being detected. Abnormal mobility, tenderness, and crepitus are usually to be elicited at this point. It is often difficult to make out the fibular fracture, and it is not always advisable to attempt to do so, especially if the manipulations cause pain or tend to increase the displacement. Not in- frequently it may be recognised by detecting a point of maximum tenderness at the seat of fracture, or of pain on distal pressure. The condition of the fibula can usually be inferred by noting the amount of deformity, and the extent of mobility of the tibial fragments. On account of the close connection of the skin to the peri- osteum on the subcutaneous aspect of the tibia, the tension caused by extravasated blood is often extreme and blisters frequently form over the area of ecchymosis. When infected by bacteria these are liable to lead to sloughing of the skin, which may render the fracture compound. The vessels and nerves of the leg are seldom damaged. Simple fractures without displacement usually consolidate in from four to six weeks. When oblique, comminuted or compound union is often delayed, and the functions of the limb may not be regained until three or even four months after the accident. Treatment.—Reduction of the fracture is best accomplished under anaesthesia. Traction is made upon the foot while the fragments are manipulated into position. The pointing of the toes and the outward rotation of the foot have at the same time to be corrected. The normal outline of the leg is restored when the ball of the great toe, the internal malleolus, and the inner edge of the patella are in the same plane. The retentive apparatus to be applied depends upon the tendency to redisplacement, the degree of swelling, and the extent of the damage to the skin. In transverse fractures with a moderate amount of swelling, and intact skin, the limb may immediately be enclosed in a rigid apparatus such as lateral poroplastic splints retained in position by an elastic bandage, or a plaster of Paris case, preferably in the form of a Croft’s splint, which admits of massage