295 CHAPTER XV. THE LYMPHATICS. Anatomy and physiology—Injuries of Lymphatic Vessels : Wounds of thoracic duct—Diseases of Lymphatic Vessels—Lymphangitis : Varieties—Lymphangiectasis — Filarial disease — Lymphangioma— Diseases of Lymphatic Glands—Lymphadenitis : Septic ; Tuber- culous ; Syphilitic—Lymphadenoma—Leucocytlnemia—Tumours. Lymph is essentially blood plasma which has iiltered through the walls of capillaries. After bathing and nourishing the tissues, it is collected by lymphatic vessels, which return it to the blood-stream by way of the thoracic duct. These lymphatic vessels take origin in the lymphatic spaces of the tissues, and in the walls of serous cavities, and they usually run alongside blood-vessels—perivascular lymphatics. They have a structure similar to that of veins, but are more abundantly provided with valves. Along the course of the lymphatic trunks are certain structures known as lymphatic glands. These are composed of a reticulated connective tissue, the spaces of which are packed with leucocytes, and they possess a definite capsule. The lymph in passing through a gland follows a tortuous course, whereby it is brought into intimate contact with the leucocytes in the gland. The action of the leucocytes on the lymph passing through the gland is of great physio- logical importance. The glands not only arrest inert substances, such as blood pigment circulating in the lymph, but also living elements, such as cancer cells or bacteria. In bacterial infections there is always a struggle between the organisms brought to the glands and the leu- cocytes contained in them, so that the glands may be looked upon as an important line of defence, preventing or retarding the passage of bacteria and their products into the general circulation. The infective agent must usually overcome the resistance of a whole chain of glands before reaching the blood-stream. In their attempt to repel organismal attacks, however, the glands themselves often succumb to the infection, and the common diseases of lymphatic glands are thus brought about. Lymphatic glands are, for the most part, arranged in groups or chains, such as those in the axilla, neck, or groin. They vary in number and size in different individuals in any given situation, and fresh glands may be formed on comparatively slight stimulus, and disappear when the stimulus is withdrawn. The best-known example of this is the increase in the number of glands in the axilla which takes place during lactation. When this function terminates many of the glands