723 FLAT-FOOT. pain and muscular spasm, chiefly of the peronei, are the pre- dominant features. If the spasm is not allayed by rest in bed and hot fomentations, it is to be eliminated by a general anaesthetic. The foot then becomes quite loose and is easily inverted, and in this position is encased in plaster. Paralytic Flat-foot (Fig. 254).—In typical cases this results from infantile paralysis affecting the tibialis anticus or posticus, or both. When other groups of muscles are affected at the same time, compound deformities, such as pes calcaneo-valgus, are more likely to result. In uncomplicated paralytic valgus the inner border of the foot is depressed and convex towards the sole, and although the foot can be readily restored to the normal position by manipulation, it at once re- sumes the valgus attitude when left to itself. The leg is wasted, the foot is cold and livid, and be flail- treatment Fig. 254.—Bilateral Pes Valgus in a girl set. 15, the result of infantile paralysis. is colcl and the ankle tends to like. The operative consists either in the transplantation of tendons — substitut- ing the flexor longus digitorum, peroneus longus, or one half of the tendo Achillis for the paralysed tibial muscles — or in bringing about an ankylosis of the joints above and below the astragalus. Traumatic flat-foot is that form which results directly from an injury. It is most often due to a fall from a height on to the soles of the feet; the ligaments supporting the arch are ruptured, and the bones are displaced either at the time of the injury or when the patient begins to walk. The arch can only be restored by a wedge-resection of the tarsus similar to that described above. After injuries about the ankle, especially a badly united Pott’s fracture, the foot may be displaced out- wards and pronated, the sole looking outwards (Fig. 170). Loss of the arch may follow as a result of walking on the everted foot. It is treated by supra-malleolar osteotomy of the tibia and fibula. Other Forms of Flat-foot.—Rickety flat-foot is sometimes met with in children, in association with knock-knee or curvature