150 SYPHILIS. sore, which lias obtained for it the name of hard chancre, is its most important clinical characteristic. The induration is best appreciated when the sore is grasped from side to side between the finger and thumb. It is usually well defined, and greater in extent than the sore itself. The sensation on grasping it has been aptly compared to that imparted by a nodule of cartilage, or by a button felt through a layer of cloth. The evidence obtained by touching the sore is more valuable than that obtained by inspection, a fact which is made use of in the recognition of concealed chancres—that is, those which are hidden from view by a tight prepuce. The induration is due not only to the dense packing of the connective-tissue spaces with small round cells, but to the formation of new connective-tissue elements. It is a gradual process and may not attain its maximum until the healing of the sore is well advanced, and it may persist long after the ulcer has healed. It is most marked in the male in relation to chancres situated in the furrow between the glans penis and the prepuce. In the male the following are the most frequent sittcations of the primary sore :—(1) On the inner aspect of the prepuce, and in the fold between the prepuce and the glans; in the latter situation the induration imparts a “collar-like” rigidity to the prepuce which is most apparent when it is rolled back over the corona. (2) At the orifice of the prepuce, in which situation it often leads to a certain degree of phimosis. (3) On the corona of the glans. (4) On the external aspect of the prepuce or on the skin of the penis itself. (5) In relation to the meatus and canal of the urethra, in either of which situations the swelling and induration may lead to narrowing of the urethra, so that the urine is passed with pain and difficulty and in a very minute stream. A chancre in the canal of the urethra is very rare, and being concealed from view its existence is recognised by the discharge from the meatus and by the induration felt between the linger and thumb. In the female the primary sore is usually met with on the labia, and as the induration is rarely characteristic and does not last so long as in the male, its existence is liable to be overlooked. Primary syphilis is much less common in women than in men, as from the circumstances of prostitution one woman is capable of infecting a number of men. The hard chancre is usually solitary, but cases are met with in which there are two or more. In all cases of multiple chancre it may be safely assumed that they are the result of inoculation of the virus at several points,—either simultaneously or within