TUBERCULOSIS. 138 may be contaminated with tubercle bacilli. Insufficient and improper feeding, by lowering the general vitality and by lead- ing to impairment of digestion and catarrhal changes in the alimentary mucous membranes, have also a prejudicial influence. In practice it is not uncommon to meet with a combination of the above-mentioned predisposing factors, all conspiring to render the soil more favourable for the growth of tubercle. The effects of injury or of pre-existing disease in a part may favour the lodgment and growth of tubercle bacilli, but they are more likely to act in determining the localisation of the tuberculous disease than by directly contributing to its causation. In an individual, for example, in whose blood tubercle bacilli are circulating and reaching every tissue and organ of the body, the occurrence of tuberculous disease in a particular part may be determined by the depression of the tissues resulting from an injury. Statistics show that the largest number of cases of surgical tuberculosis are met with between the ages of five and fifteen. At the same time, this apparent excessive frequency during the early years of life is partly accounted for by the correspondingly larger number of individuals alive during these years. Stated in another way, tuberculosis may be comparatively rare above the age of seventy, but so are individuals. It must be emphasised that tuberculosis may be met with at any period of life, and that the mere fact that a patient is up in years is not a sufficient reason for excluding the possibility of a given lesion being tuberculous. In individuals past the prime of life there is little tendency to natural recovery from tuberculous affections, and small prospect of any but the most radical operations effect- ing a cure of the disease. While it is a fact that males are, on the whole, more often affected than females, the influence of sex in predisposing to tuberculosis is not certain. Changes in the Tissues following upon the successful Lodgment of Tubercle Bacilli.—The action of the bacillus on the tissues is twofold : on the one hand, by its irritation it induces tissue reaction in the form of proliferative changes and leucocyte infiltration ; and, on the other, it causes in the cells around degenerative changes which ultimately result in their death. The area of tissue infected becomes the seat of a chronic inflammation, attended with the formation of a friable, gelatinous granulation tissue. This may be collected into circumscribed nodules or “tubercles,” or it may be ill-defined,