131 DELHI BOIL—CHIGOE. and the disease gradually extends up the leg. There is hut little pain, and no constitutional disturbance. The glands are not implicated, nor are secondary lesions ever produced. The disease may run a very prolonged course lasting for twenty or thirty years. Spontaneous cure never takes place, and the risk to life is that of prolonged suppuration. Treatment.—If the disease be localised it may be removed by the knife or sharp spoon, and the part afterwards cauterised and sponged over with pure carbolic acid. As a rule, however, amputation well above the disease is the best line of treatment. Unlike actinomycosis, this disease does not appear to be benefited by potassium iodide. Delhi Boil.—Synonyms—Aleppo boil, Biskra button, Furunculus orientalis, Natal sore. Delhi boil is a chronic inflammatory disease, most commonly met with in India, especially towards the end of the wet season. The disease occurs oftenest on the face, and is believed to be due to an organism, although this has not been demonstrated. The infection is supposed to be conveyed through water used for washing or by the bites of insects. Clinical Features.—A red spot, resembling the mark of a mosquito bite, appears on the affected part, and is attended with marked itching. After becoming papular and increasing to the size of a pea, desquamation takes place, leaving a dull-red surface, which in the course of several weeks develops over itself a series of small yellowish-white spots, from which serum exudes, and, drying, forms a thick scab. Under this scab the skin ulcerates, leaving small oval sores with sharply-bevelled edges, and an uneven floor covered with yellow or sanious pus. These sores vary in number from one to forty or fifty. They may last for months and then heal spontaneously, or may continue to spread until arrested by suitable treatment. There is no enlargement of adjacent glands, and but little inflammatory reaction in the surrounding tissues ; r.or is there any marked constitutional disturbance. Recovery is often followed by considerable cicatricial contraction leading to marked deformity of the face. The treatment consists in destroying the original papule by the actual cautery, acid nitrate of mercury, or pure carbolic acid. The ulcers should be scraped with the sharp spoon, painted with pure carbolic, and dressed with iodoform gauze. The patient should, if jiossible, leave the district in which the disease is endemic, and should only use water sterilised by boiling. Chigoe.—Chigoe or jigger results from the introduction of the eggs of the sand flea (joulex penetrans) into the tissues. It occurs in tropical Africa, South America, and the West Indies. The impregnated female flea remains attached to the part till the eggs mature, when by their irritation they cause localised inflammation with pustular or vesicular swelling. Children are most commonly attacked, particularly about the toe nails and on the scrotum. The treatment consists in picking out the insect with a blunt needle, special care being taken not to break it up. The puncture is then cauterised. The application of essential oils to the feet acts as a preventive. Poisoning by Insects.—The bites of certain insects, such as mosquitoes, midges, different varieties of flies, wasps, and spiders, may be followed by serious complications. The effects are mainly due to the injection of an irritant acid secretion, the exact nature of which has not been ascertained. Some persons are more susceptible than others. It is important to note also that insects may carry the specific virus of such diseases as malaria, filaria, anthrax, or Delhi boil, or the ordinary pyogenic bacteria.