1G0 SYPHILIS. on the other hand, attracts attention because it is attended with rapid failure of sight in one or in both eyes; the optic disc and adjacent retina present the usual appearances of inflammation, becoming blurred and hazy. In the arteries of the Brain, in the later periods of secondary, and in tertiary syphilis, changes of the nature of endarteritis, attended with narrowing of their lumen, and it may be complete obliteration from superadded thrombosis, are met with. By interfering with the nutrition of those parts of the brain to which the affected arteries are distributed, these lesions give rise to clinical features of which severe headache and paralysis are the #most prominent. The paralysis may involve one side of the body (hemiplegia), and be attended with convulsions and coma, or may be confined to one limb or to the area of distribution of certain of the cranial nerves. Anti-syphilitic remedies have but little curative influence in these vascular lesions, and the paralysis is often permanent. Affections of the spinal cord are extremely rare, but para- plegia from myelitis has been observed in isolated instances. Attention must be directed to the remarkable variation which is observed in the severity of the symptoms in different individuals. While some patients, and especially women, may be scarcely aware that they are the subjects of secondary syphilis, others, and fortunately the minority, suffer from one lesion after another until their general health entirely breaks down. Treatment of Secondary Syphilis.—There is practical un- animity in regarding mercury as the only specific remedy or antidote for syphilis, and it has already been pointed out in relation to the primary stage, that as soon as the diagnosis is certain the patient should be brought under the influence of this drug. The quantity of mercury given must be in propor- tion to the amount and activity of the virus present as evidenced by the symptoms, and with due consideration to the peculiarities of the patient. Methods of Administering Mercury.—(1) By the Mouth.— This has long been the most popular method in this country, the preparation usually employed being grey powder, in pills or tablets, each of which contains one grain of the powder. Three of these are given daily in the first instance; but if the manifestations do not yiejd or if fresh symptoms appear, the daily dose may be increased to five or even seven grains. When the mercury has gained the upper hand, the daily dose may be again reduced to three or four grains. We do not agree