651 THE SHOULDER-JOINT. shooting down the arm and interfering with sleep, and it may he associated with tenderness on pressure over the upper end of the humerus. The wasting chiefly involves the deltoid and scapular muscles. In cases with advanced carious destruction of the articular surfaces there may be starting pains and the upper arm may be shortened. A cold abscess may form in the bursa underneath the deltoid, and the pus may burrow and appear at the anterior or posterior boundary of the axilla or in the axilla itself. Pus formed in the joint may gravitate along the bicipital groove. The axillary glands may become infected. The lesion underlying tuberculous disease of the shoulder is either a large caseating focus in one of the bones — more often in the upper end of the humerus—or it is of the nature of caries sicca. The greater part of the head may disappear, and the end of the shaft be drawn upwards against the socket. In exceptional cases, portions of the glenoid or humerus may be found separated as sequestra, or the disease may involve parts outside the joint, such as the acromion or coracoid process. Tuberculous hydrops with melon-seed bodies is very rare. Destruction of the tissues at the ossifying junction in young subjects may result in considerable shortening of the upper arm. The diagnosis is to be made from (1) arthritis deformans, in which the movements are less restricted, and are attended with grating and crackling ; (2) paralysis involving the deltoid and scapular muscles — by the absence of pain, and the free, or even flail-like, character of the movements; and (3) disease in the sub-deltoid bursa—by the absence of rigidity and other evidence of implication of the articular surfaces. (4) The diagnosis from sarcoma of the upper end of the humerus may call for the use of the X-rays or of an exploratory incision. While the prognosis is favourable on the whole, spontaneous recovery is usually attended with fibrous ankylosis and incapacity to raise the arm above the level of the shoulder. The disease is often very persistent, and may last for several years. Treatment.—In the early stages rest is indicated. The limb should be immobilised in a Thomas’ splint or plaster of Paris, in the position of abduction with the forearm and hand directed forwards, so as to retain the most useful range of movement in the event of stiffness occurring. Severe pain may be relieved by blistering or by the application of the cautery. To inject iodoform emulsion the needle is introduced either immediately