6 REPAIR. tissues of the central nervous system, are but imperfectly restored. The peripheral nerves, however, are eminently capable of regeneration. The elementary basis of all repair is granulation tissue. If any portion of the original structure survive, this granulation tissue is replaced by an imitation of the original tissue, more or less perfect in proportion to the simplicity of its constituent elements. Where the original tissue is completely,destroyed, or is of a highly-specialised structure, simple cicatricial connective tissue fills the gap, or a cavity filled with a turbid fluid may persist. Regeneration of Skin and Connective Tissue.—The mode of regeneration of these tissues has already been described as the type of ideal repair. The more highly-organised elements of the skin, such as hair follicles, sweat and sebaceous glands, are not reproduced; hence a superficial scar remains, smooth, dry, and hairless. Regeneration of Epithelium.—Epithelium is only reproduced from pre-existing epithelium, and, as a rule, from one of a similar type, although metaplastic transformation of cells of one kind of epithelium into another kind can take place. Thus a granulating surface may be covered entirely by the ingrowing of the cutaneous epithelium from the margins ; or islets may spring up in the centre of the raw area, originating in surviving cells of sebaceous glands or sweat glands, or of hair follicles. Such islets may also be due to the accidental transference of loose epithelial cells from the edges. Even the fluid from a blister, in virtue of the isolated cells of the rete Malpighi which it contains, is capable of starting epithelial growth on a granulat- ing surface. Hairs and nails may be completely regenerated if a sufficient amount of the hair follicles or of the nail matrix has escaped destruction. The epithelium of a mucous membrane is regenerated in the same way as that on a cutaneous surface. Epithelial cells have the power of living for some time after being separated from their normal surroundings, and of growing again when once more placed in favourable circumstances. On this fact the practice of skin-grafting is based. Repair of Tendons.—When a tendon is divided the end nearer the muscle fibres is drawn away from the other, leaving a gap which is speedily filled by blood-clot. In the course of a few days this clot becomes permeated by granulation tissue, the fibroblasts of which are derived from the sheath of the tendon, the surrounding connective tissue, and probably also from the divided ends of the tendon itself. These fibroblasts ultimately develop into typical tendon cells, and the fibres which they