THE LYMPHATICS. 310 are usually larger tlian in tuberculosis, and they remain longer discrete and movable. In time the glandular masses may form enormous projecting tumours, the swelling being added to by oedema of the overlying cellular tissue and skin (Fig. 55). The enlargement spreads along the cervical chain of glands to those above the clavicle, to those in the axilla, and to those of the opposite side. Later the glands in the groin can be seen and felt to be enlarged. It is probable that the infection has spread from the glands in the neck along the mediastinal, bron- chial, retro-peritoneal, and mesenteric glands, and has branched off from thence to the iliac and inguinal groups. When the disease has thus become generalised, the patient’s health suffers and he becomes feverish and anaemic. The blood presents the characters met with in secondary anaemia, and although leucocytosis may be observed at any stage, it is not an essential feature of the disease. The spleen, liver, testes, and mammae may be enlarged. The glandular swellings may press on important structures, such as the trachea, oesophagus, or great veins, and give rise to symptoms referable to such pressure. The disease usually terminates fatally within one or two years of its commencement. The structural changes in the lymphatic glands are not characteristic of any specific infection. The glands are hypertrophied, and the lymph spaces are crowded with leucocytes, while in the later stages the fibrous framework of the gland becomes thickened. The origin of the disease is as yet unknown, but analogy would suggest that it is due to infec- tion with a slowly growing micro-organism. 1 Diagnosis. — The true relationships of lymphadenoma to lymphosarcoma and to leucocytlnemia are as yet imperfectly established, so that it is impossible to state definitely the points upon which a differential diagnosis may be founded. True leucocythsemia is to be recognised by the characteristic alterations in the blood. Lymphosarcoma runs a clinical course similar to that of other forms of sarcoma. The diagnosis from tuberculosis at an early stage can only be made by removing one of the glands and submitting it to examination. Treatment.—In genuine cases of lymphadenoma treatment is of little avail. Arsenic is given in full doses either by the mouth or by subcutaneous injection. The excision of glands, although sometimes beneficial, seldom arrests the progress of the disease. Surgical interference may give relief where important structures are being pressed upon—tracheotomy, for example, may be required where life is threatened by asphyxia. Leucocythsemia.—This is a disease of the blood and of the