121 HYDROPHOBIA. develops a depraved ajjpetite, eating all kinds of rubbish, and filtli; is peculiarly irritable and snappish towards other dogs ; and when it moves about, takes no notice of surrounding objects. The bark becomes hoarse ; a thick ropy mucus collects in the mouth, and the creature has difficulty in swallowing, although it makes violent attempts to lap water. Para- lysis of the lower jaw and of the limbs precedes death, which usually takes place in five or six days. The wild fury which is generally sup- posed to characterise a mad dog is usually conspicuous by its absence. A dog which has bitten a person should on no account be killed until its condition has been proved one way or the other. Should rabies develop and its destruction become necessary, the head and spinal cord should be retained and forwarded, packed in ice, to a competent observer. Much anxiety to the person bitten and to his friends would be avoided if these rules were observed, because in many cases it will be shown that the animal did not after all suffer from rabies, and that the patient con- sequently runs no risk. If. on the other hand, rabies is proved to be present, the patient must be submitted to the Pasteur treatment. Clinical Features in Man.—There is almost always a history of the patient having been bitten or licked by an animal supposed to suffer from rabies. The incubation period averages about forty days, but varies from a fortnight to seven or eight months, and is shorter in young than in old persons. The original wound has long since healed, and beyond a slight itchiness or pain shooting along the nerves of the part, shows no sign of disturbance. A few days of general malaise, with chills and giddiness, precede the onset of the acute manifestations, which affect chiefly the muscles of deglutition and respiration. One of the earliest signs is that the patient has periodically a sudden catch in his breathing “ resembling what often occurs when a person goes into a cold bath.’ This is due to spasm of the diaphragm, and is frequently accompanied by a loud-sounding hiccough, likened by the laity to the barking of a dog. Difficulty in swallowing fluids may be the first symptom. The spasms rapidly spread to all the muscles of deglutition and respiration, so that the patient not only has the greatest difficulty in swallowing, but has a constant sense of impending suffocation. To add to his distress, a copious secretion of viscid saliva fills his mouth. Any voluntary effort, as well as all forms of external stimuli, only serves to aggravate the spasms which are always induced by the attempt to swallow7 fluid, or even by the sound of running water. The temperature is raised ; the pulse is small, rapid, and intermittent, and the urine may contain sugar and albumin. The mind may remain clear to the end, or the patient may have delusions, supposing himself to be surrounded by terrifying forms. There is always extreme mental agitation and despair, and the sufferer is in constant fear of his impending fate. Happily the inevitable issue is not long delayed, death usually occurring from exhaustion in from two to four days from the onset. The symptoms of the disease are so characteristic that there is no difficulty in diagnosis. The only condition with which it is liable to be confused is the variety of cephalic tetanus in which the muscles of deglutition are specially involved—the so-called tetanus liydrophobicus. Prophylaxis.-—The bite of an animal suspected of being rabid should be cauterised at once by means of the actual or Paquelin cautery, or by a strong chemical escliarotic such as pure carbolic acid, after which antiseptic dressings are applied. It is, however, to Pasteur’s preventive inoculation that we must look