474 INJURIES OF WRIST AND HAND. Clinical Features.—In a typical case there is a marked prominence on the back of the wrist, caused by the displaced lower fragment, with a depression just above it (Fig. 123). The natural hollow on the palmar aspect of the radius is filled up by the projection of the upper frag- ment. The hand and carpus are carried to the radial side by the upward rotation of the lower fragment (Fig. 124), and the radial styloid is raised so that it lies as high, or even higher, than that of the ulna. The lower end of the ulna is rendered unduly prominent by the flexion of the hand to the radial side. The fingers are partially flexed ; and the patient sup- ports the injured wrist in the palm of the opposite hand, and avoids all move- ment of the part. The general outline of the wrist and hand has been compared not inaptly to that of “an inverted spoon.” Pronation and supination are lost, the joint is swollen, and there is tenderness on pressure, especially over the line of fracture. Tenderness over the position of the ulnar styloid may indicate fracture of that process, although it is sometimes present without fracture, and has been absent in cases where a fracture was demonstrated by the Rontgen rays (Cathcart). No attempt should be made to elicit crepitus in a sus- pected case of Colies’ fracture, as the manipula- tions are extremely pain- ful, and are liable to in- crease the displacement. As a matter of fact it may be wanting in any form of this injury. Its absence, further, is not to be accepted as proving impaction. Treatment.—It cannot be too strongly insisted upon that success in the treatment of Colies’ fracture chiefly depends upon complete and accurate reduction. As considerable force may be necessary, especially when impaction exists, a general anaesthetic Fig. 124.—Colles’Fracture. From same patient as Fig. 123. Shows radial de- viation of hand, and un- due prominence of ulnar styloid. Fig. 125.—Colles’ Fracture. Moderate degree of deformity.