369 DISEASES OF MUSCLE. of the joint. The affected muscle is larger and firmer than normal, and its electric excitability is diminished. In tertiary syphilis individual muscles may become the seat of interstitial myositis or of gummata, both of these being well illustrated in the muscles of the tongue. All of these affections readily yield to anti-syphilitic remedies. Tuberculous disease in muscle, while usually due to extension from adjacent tissues, is sometimes the result of a primary infec- tion through the blood-stream. Tuberculous nodules are found disseminated throughout the muscle. The surrounding tissues are indurated, and central caseation may take place and lead to abscess formation and sinuses. We have observed this primary form of tuberculous disease in the gastrocnemius and in the psoas—in the latter muscle apart from tuberculous disease in the vertebrae. Ossification in Muscles, Tendons, and Fasciae — Myositis Ossificans.—Reference may be made in the first place to the very common ossifications met with in muscles, tendons, fasciae, and ligaments in those who are the subjects of arthritis deformans. They are seldom recognised clinically, but are frequently met with in the dissecting-room and in museums. Similar localised ossifications are met with in Charcot’s disease of joints, in long- standing cases of leg ulcer (Fig. 16), and in fractures which have repaired with exuberant callus. The new bone may be in the form of spicules, plates, or irregular masses, which, when they are connected with a bone, are sometimes called false or spurious exostoses. Another variety of ossification in muscle is that met with as a result of injury. Ossification in the crureus or vastus externus muscle has been chiefly observed after a severe blow on the thigh—such, for example, as a kick from a horse. Within a week or two a tumour appears at the site of injury, and becomes progressively harder until its consistence is that of solid bone. If the tumour moves with the affected muscle it causes but little inconvenience. If, as is commonly the case, it is fixed to the subjacent bone, the action of the muscle is impaired, and the patient complains of pain and difficulty in flexing the knee. In skiagrams the tumour yields a shadow which may or may not be continuous with that of the femur. The treatment consists in excising the bony mass. In some cases a haematoma with a fibrous wall and smooth lining membrane is found overlying the bony tumour. A similar ossification has been observed in the brachialis anticus interfering with the movements of the elbow. VOL. I—24